\T THE PROVIDENCE OF GOD IN THEI GOVERNMENT OF THE WORLD.ASERMON,LEACHED BEFORE KING CHARLES II.iEB&UAKY lO. 1678.—LY ZACHARY CRADDOCK, D. D.latf. provost or eaton.I I     — ■ I -I. ■  —IPSALM XCVU. (.The Lord re'ignetbi let the earth r joice f-STIRLING:rITED AND SQL D BY C. RANDALL,1806,i > )AS E R M O N,«H C C t K S ix. 2.1 Tkrt is ane svent to the ri«htews and to the wichaTHE argumert of tfie Epicureans, again ft Pro-ftence, agrees vel: witii their dodlrine concri* iflg the bt ginning of the world, and is every whitfpo/.fh and unreafonr h’eThey tell us, that fnch nn ->f ndnnce open the wor4>? nature «nd the aHoi'« f Jrr.en. ns Pro vie’: nee Spl.es. i« too n f r Coe’s hmje.ii: greatnefs, and ptr: ah’ oth f r his complet- liappinefs ; that his enjtCtenrs ' r.d fat! facH ii» would be interriipt.O' withcares: that he ntufl beweoritd with the endlefs cernuance, and diftradted with th infoite variety c: thethat men are too inconi' hraKh, f r] in', to’rcg,- S \vthey do ; that he if fo far from h . g concerned, ;rbeintf e'ther pleafet? f r angry with thc»nfcthat he ’sfo much as a dfitcv of their adtions ; worihipt inshhfphcrning him, OQmg right or wrong t» one : »!is all Tike; noth'Ug can move him to tAk, i otic . nlefs to interpple, or rre-’dle to do thi rr. cithtr oh (.I.hatn.'. This kind of re?' ning wrs jtfftly defj ifeci |the nreoknefs in ,t. and jirftly fufpefted to Lt mth Icrafty infinuation of Ath^iim, and a purfu.nce of tildefign againft rthgion, th n a way ol ood sad loiiijfive srguing, even in their own opinion.How ccuid men, that difecunc elcar'v ard coi’lh?y n many other matters, fall into fbeh a profs » 'ftas to conclvde concerning the nature of,God whioinfinitely pufeft, from the defedfs and imperfi-ifbora mian ?Becaufe we cannot attend long, nor to many thinj:c*«, but are tired with .thinking, and perpkxcd T(3.)rabts, v-'avfring arid uncertain to refolvc, erring ia theloice of our end, and when that ie well ehofen, eafilyewuldered aiidloft incur way: therefore,infinite Know-l-y, and alnvghty Power, mull be liable to the fameconveniences with our ignorance and weaknefoPlainly to repeat fuch an argument, is enough for the4 I'wer u-i it1 The'more uftn1 ohjefiion againll Providence is morei ifhcult, which .* that have'trcated upon that fubjeftsve thought worthy of a very ferious confideration.| If God cover i the world, how come things to pafs, fovikcly to be fuffered by infallible wifdora and juftice#1 W! uit rule is it by which he diftributes good and-i! things ?: i Hcuv muft we defend his goodnefs, when the righte-ts are in adveriity, and the wicked prolper ?Vhy do not ttii igs befal men a’cording to theiroiks, b't oftentimes ‘there be .juft men unto whom itjppenyth according to the work of tin? wick .d; again,ere be Wicked ynen to w hom it h ppeneth accordingthe work of rf;j righteous'!’Ecclef.viii. 14 « ‘Howme ill vtii 13 ,lik.e unto aih one event to the rigbte-ic and to the unci.an ; to him that facr;fi_e h, and to•n tliar fa< nljccth not ! as is the gooti, fo is the fin-r j and he that fwear.-th a* he _t.:at feareth an onth *It is no wonde* that thefe fiiould be hard quelliSn»th n who n w no’-hi.ig certainly of rewards andaiihments after death.Put it wouid ieem ft range, that they who were bet-< .Iruftcd by r< vel tion, iliould ,be at a (land fome-ies-, and ioubtfu; what t refif every day's ex-r.euce Ad 11 rt teich u how apt even wife men are torken to the lu ;g?st ons of pnfhori agamll reafon, andiai eak cut nto has’y e tpiuluons, contrary to theirbi.ual perluafi aJob complains, ‘ Wher Gre do the wicked live, be-uv. old, yea, an: mighty in power? t >eir houfes are: from :ra:, neither is the rod of God upon them,*Ib- xxir 7, 9I)avid faith of bimfelf, 4 I was envious at the f -olifti,en I £aw tlw pro^erity of the wicked. They are not.v V'( 4 )iii trouble 2R otlr.r iru n ; neither ?re they plagued US0ther men,’ Plalm b. ;i 3. 5.He wa» re^ay to conclude,: that ht had been a gcc*aaa to no pir-noft, ‘ Verily I have cleanfed my heain vain, and wafhei mv hand.sJin innocence. For ;tie day Ion , I have been plagued, and chaitened eve:morning ’ vnrfe 13, 14.Th y w'eve te mpted to a prof. ne mifbelief; th#thoughts were difcompntccU for a l Ale while, but pr-fentiy again ; as appears iu the proeds of tht/hfcou fc , :n w’*i:ch they recover into the way of refonin"> aright con^erping tuefc tilings, and ai^fvver th»own objections.Solomon calls this an evil under the fun, that the.js ene event to allEcclef ix. 3. Not that he eit:doubts of, or blames God’s Provid ence, bat the great,vil fpoken of is the evil of men’s fooiiih condru tion afalfe confequenc , mentio cd in the words fcilrv.i.‘ Yea, alio the heart of the fons o! men is f 11 of t** and ijiadn^fs is in theii heart while they live ’ TiTeems to be the fame effect of liic fame cau.e, whiclplainly deferibed, Ecel. viii 1* Becauie 1 ntvuc,gainft an evil work is mot executed ipecdily, thtr. loj.hc heart of the fons • f Uv*n is fuhy let to evil ’But whatever thoie men, vho would by a 1 me^ns ccharge tbemfclves ol the fear ot G.d in y be furw;to infer from this uncertainty of events, either that this no Prov; bnce, or, that G d is unconaernfd whulmenbe juU. u.ijuft ; iit wdi appear, when the witmatter is lai together, jehat their inference is rain alil-g. ounded j that rtafi n, as well as religion, is agatthem, bi t this t rder in the government of the wenis nectflary to the wiidoin, and conuftent with the j.t' e of God, and with his goodnefs too, and with £vidV I'^iroony concerning him, Plalm. xi 7 * 7vd loytth righteoufnefs, his countenai1■ 1 *.-y often one event of health sjr! , y. peace and war, victory a, 1 i o the wicked, of wh' . r< -V , .0,:rh, without the i|ngh.erusf f *Aoritf of tli« fcnptuirs: But this is •» argument a*gainft Providence, js vrill appear, if thefe three thir.g*be confidered. ,I. That for the fame thing-* uncertainly and indiffe¬rently to befal the righteous and th^ v^jeked in thi*i Kfe, it unavoidably neceffaryII. That they who from thence obje& a gain ft Pro¬vidence, are no competent judges in the cafe, an4fuppofe in their >bjeftion that which is fatfe.. III. That, however, the day of judgement is fuf»ficient anfwer to their objection.| ■ ’ 'I. For the fame things uncertainly and indifferentlyjto befal the righteous and the wicked in this Hfe, is un-.jav'-Habie neceffary.If profperity and affliction were the certain effects of■iGod’s'love and hat ed, theconftant mirks ofhis favourand difpleafure, it would be impoffible to reconcile what®e fee every day, with what we are taught to believe.3ut proiperity and nffliction haveother caufes, and thereS a neceffity of their happening t;ncrrtainlv, * one eventff to tnc righteous and to the wicked,’ as well fr.-irp theafire of men, as irem their relations and fnutua’ de-’endendes, and from the order of tbit lite to the he ft’17« a flate of probation. Tfeis neceflity will be ev.de. tf we co lider,'. There muft be ‘ one event to the tighteous ando the wicked,' becaufe men have the fame dominion>ver their own aftions, and do that which themlelveshoofc to do.rhe tire and hailj the ice and fnow fulft: the will .ofiod, the plants flourifti and wither, and the feafolistbangr, and the heavenly bodies move exactly accordingto the intention and defign of their maker, not by andlenfe and know .edge in them, but by neceffity of nature«ditt man is endued with knowledge, and muff fpffii thetill of God in another way, as directed by a roL, andwirfuaded by fufficient motives; not conftrained by al-mg1 ty Power, as the mechanical world, but fiibniittii^greel\ to the lovcreign authority of Gwd, katk file*-( * Iv€d }iim tlie C5^ .cf -.his cr^atlja, and ^pacts'from iiimareafonable fervicevand bath feb before him good and e-vil, life and death, that he B ay chufe either obedienceand its reward, or fin and its punifhment.This io man’s nature, and God’s way of governingit; And tho’ fometimes he changes the hearts of men,sflters their inclinations, makes .them chufe and refolveas it feems expedient to Ifim, by an influence of theiri^iidersUnding and will, which they neither dUctrn norcan refist; yet the reafon of this argument is still thefame, because this fecret and effectual operation rf Goddoth not take away, the natural liberty of man’s will,tmt only over rule ar.d determine it in fome parttcii’arcafes In others he leaves men to thenifclves He coni'Brands them to v/rrfh p him and iulf rs them to wor-fhip idols ; he requires them to be obedient to fuperi-■ ors, and juft to one auotli^r, and permits them to beguilty ofdifobedience, rehielson, murder, adultery, iob-bery, felCe witnefs, and all the malice and t •aud, and vi¬olent perverting of judgment and justice that men aretempted to by ambition and covetouinejsSince therefore a great part of men's calamities Imp--pen to ahem by the wiekednefs of their neighbouis, andwealth and greatnels oftentimes are procured by th or•own wickednefs and ufurpation, which tho’ God difif)-pr .ve and strictly forbid, and declares that he will pu-nilh, yet, if he doth not interpofe his rrefistable poA’erto hinder, it evidently follows, that he fin of the oppref-for may make him rich and pro perousy and the innocenteppreffed man poor and afBipted ; and that thefe thi.igsmay fall out as uncertainly as we fee they ^o, bccaufethey depend upon fo npemaina thing as the will of manZ. There must be ‘ one event tr righteous dto the wicked,’ becaufe a great deal of prqfperity or af¬fliction befals men, not.as the reward or the eff.ct of a-ny thing done by tbemfehes, ^ut by defeent from theirparents, whole virtues and vice.' have gre t influence up¬on the perfbns and fortunes of their chilrren, by theProvidence of God» and by the laws of men, and bythe count of nature.Profpenty, or affliction happens to the childrenIf * 1>m tfte oVdsenee or fm of the parents, by the TVovi-s ince of God, according to thk declared and oft repeat-i'! ru’e, ‘ That he vifits the iniquity of the Fathers uponiue ch ld*»:i unto the third and fourth generation ofiiihem that h rte him : and fheweth mercy to thoufandst of th^m t iati’ove him and keep his commandments/xod. xx 5,6 andxxxiv. 7. Deut. v. y 10. Jer.::x i -18- • v ' -li) Of this there are many examples in the fcripture, notoly when children imitate the their parents,?.'! for,1 iUpop, when they commit idolatry, and worship theih gO ds of their fathers; or, when they partake in theiri.iilt, in keeping that which t© their knowledge was goti:!i ,a curfe for the injufitce ann extortion with which;ney were raifed, though that injultice |and extortion; .1 link-sown to them, in which cafe the eftate may bef'und guilty and the owner acquitted.Btfnles all thee cafes, we find the innocent childrenffering for the fins or tiieir ferefathei-s.Some th’ijkit very oifticult to make out the jufticethis p oceeding.But the lovereignty of God fignifias Kttk if it willdot ItTvt to defead his juttice, in making men rich oror. live long or die foon : if it be not a fatisractoiycimnr for inch things, that the iupreme .Lord gavend took away.But this way and method of Providence; may be alt*efended, from the ufefuh.els of it to refirain men thatj‘ivlieve, from the counuifiion of fin,efpeci*lIythoie grofslind Crying fins for which the (inner (ball be pimiihed4ot in his perfoa only, but alfo in the •■^i^m'ties a idlehruction of hie pofterity.Thus the wifdom of God provides, that the antidotehall grow upon the fame root fr m which the p^ilonprings, tnat the remtdy againft the; moif datigtrousJ emptations (hall be found in the fame affection fromwhence the temptation arifes.(r NTothvn* dt th more generally, powerfully and eoa-affcCf mew, that the concerns of ihcir childrenjj lu r * u-iir fakes, they will imbitter thsir wnole life with( t )CtfhtinUal etfcSj patiently undergo the moil flavifh dgeries, be guilty of the vileft actions, da any thing, aendure any thing, to leave their pofterity more weal'and a higher place 5 and yet, if fome of t'd&n maybelieved, they defire neither riches nor honour for the!felves: they talk of the world like philofophers : a lit!is enough tor all the neceffities and all the delightsnature ; a retired life is the moll pleafant and the mefccuir ; to fit always at a feaft it but to be always tcT.ted to furfeits, and, from numerous attendance, thia more trouble and danger than ufeful fervice-Now, if the dt fire to learetheir poller ty great makthis fine talk fignify nothing, and forces them, rmtwitftanding into all t1 e troubles, and dangers, and tempttiens to which covetous and ■’mbitious men ate eypoftlet them confider this way of Providence, and if they blieve it, it will cure them cf that diftafed temper of mirforwhich their philofnpht though true,proves an inluftcient remedy; they will be convinced, that a little left ttheir ch Jdren, with all the bi llings that attend upon nhgion and faithfulnefs, and juftice and charity,is a betteinheritance thaa the greatelt fortunes with a curfe : thathe biggelt he..p of trealure is but a poor provilion itwhilll the father lays.up the grains of oppreffion, ‘* lavg up his iniquity for his children.’ Job. xxi. .0Secondly, Profperity or affliction hapoens to the children from the virtues or fms of tbeparents,by the law- cmen. A man fees himfelf entering into pofielfiou of th.1honour and wealth of his anceftors, and rejoices in tb>[bleflings of his*family whndi he was born to inherit; buifuddtnly he finds his condition changed, the defcentoithe honour of his houfe intercepted, the eflate corfiicated, and the blood tainted; and all this, not for hii|own fin but the fin of his father. . This proceedingthe law is prudent, becaufe many men are fo defperate,that no coufideration of thtmfelves can retirain then]■from mifchief, and yet fuch meu are afraid to rum theiipollerity, and by that fear, are withheld from the great*ell raifehief. And this proceeding is not only prudenibut juft, becanfe the reafon of the public good hath 1title in alt men's humours and eftates antecedent andO  ,rtperior to then” private right, and refervec, citherp i t y or cKpiefily, in the laws ot all nationsThere is another conlideration of hiiTaa laws in thisjirgumtnt of profperny or affliction hy dtfcentjvi?.. ThatJ‘laws make not a man's virtue hi* tit'e tohisellate. butinheritance, or gift, or purchafe, or any juft way of ac¬quiring it; nor doth a min forfeit what he hath, by themolt c ‘mmon vices ; fo that a foolbh anil riotous heir of1 provident father jtiflly poffelfes tlut vealth and plentyWhich lie abufee aud turfeits upon, and waftes prodigal¬ly, till it be all gone, a d leaves perhaps, to a wife andjood fon ail the calamities of poveity, arid more ; fotmere p verty L not to great an affliction, as povc tyifter riches and-want after abundance-To cortcl’ade, there is a d^feent of good «id evil, byijfhe' courfe of nature. A rio.ous man may Jiave received,13.rom his temp r^tc and heali tiful parents iucli a vigorousund firm contikation as will endure great, and long, and(frequent debauches before it be quite broken, and thisijnan's fober and temperate fOry notwithftanding all hisifcdre and good gtivernmeutSof hirtfelfp may be fick fofllbhofe ctbauches. and feelfbofe paiusand ache? which hisleathers exeefs deferved ; for, in this fenfe too, ‘ the iai-| quity of the fathers is vifited upon the children.'- j N w, if p/rents, being evil themfelves} may have goodjehiid.en, and, being good themfelves, may have evil'Ifchildren, and may have children like themfelves, whe*fcher they be good or evil, and yet profpeiity or •ifffic-ttion fhall befai thefe children by the actions of thr rpa-t'errs; k muft neeeffarily follow, that thefe thin; arerncertaui, and that there mud be * one event to dier ghteous and to the wicked ’I 3 There mu't be ‘ one event to tire righteous and to;i'he wicked ’ becaufe they are fo mist together :n “ eirberfon ,andmterefts, an-d-emplovnie; is, ■ d pH..- 3 of a-: |iode, that they cannot be diftinuiiiihcd iri the events thattfal them. They march and light in the jame army,'d fare alike in danger or fafety, abundance or famine,tonquefl or defeat They live together- in the cky. andjmuft breathe in the fame wheifome or infefred air.They fail in the fame fhips, and the hazards of the fea,( >oflornos of good weather, fair or cTofa. ■**..If, a f«fe affival or flvp wreck are alike f r thtm both I'liey eatof the dchdous or coarfe fare, the pitku:ful or i'cartprovifion at the ikme ta JeGood anr! bad menaren. xed in the worldas thr- taresand the wheat in the parable: if you will ave the wneatjg«’w, he tar' » n ud groa- t.io; if you wi;! pull up di«|jtar. sth: ro t art ii;tangl d, ;nd the vl.c'st muft c rn«up ’ithit; tli y annot be p r'-ed till the ha* if; then|the wheat rr.ult be gnth.r d Into the b.-.rn b>. ir.i 1 , andt1 e t res burnt t>o fhall tue trcod and b"d, who muifor a ahik ive !i gtrh'.T. and take part one with anotb r in fi h things a-, li p;>en. be for ev^r ui'id d aitl e ‘ refurrection or the Jt ad ’i her t' e believing hufband and the unbelieving wife,the religioUt par nts and uu racoue ch.Lii t n, the jullnrg’ftrr.t' nd the ledstiou,, and unruly pc ople,the gooda d charttable man and bison?. - us and malicious reighbotir, woo c ulduot be feparated in many of the bleffmgtand calamities of life, fh-.11 how for ever be feparated.to be happy ormiferabie alone by toerufelves.Bur whilft they liw.. here, they niuit ihare in one ano-thpr’s foitune, and enjoy the lame profperity, or laffetthe fame affliction together,4 There oi.nil be ‘ one event totherigl tt. us and tc•'the wicked,’ for the more evident and certain ddlin-guifn ng oi them from one another,'Toe o< vi|’s inknuation againit j b’s integrity would '1have been unanfwcrable if it had been true, viz. That his :ftrvice of God was for the world’s fake, that 1 is lovewoidd be changed into difpight, and his pvay; rs in*acurfnig, if he were afflicted. But his belitjviouv, in thearcateii affliction that ever btfel a mereu.ai^. was an tin- ■Anirible proof of his fmcerity- Thofc in whom the loveof the world is the ruling affection, as thy c..fe n ' Srtands, trouble not yourieives n.u^ti about religion or rjustice. Virtue fometinjes helps a little, but more :Tt?ta:hinders them from attaining their end; at l$a t rfiey thinkfo ; yet theft men would be very devout and precife.hv f.ich means they might be rich and great,amier^-y adrnagneref pleafure, a«d ha?? $*tfefegtfDo to all thsir dd‘»:i res. The tflersto wh-jcry j§ better than godlinef**'.ifoutd not be extortioner;, it more were to be gotten bjriiistice : They would not be cruel and without compaf-on to the poor, if they believed th it their wealth wouldereafe by what they gave a way: I'hey would not fendeir adventu*ts to "Vrabia and ludi»if they could havebetter market at home : if building the temple, andvin^ libera’dv to tdie altar would ri t urn their?tockwitlvO >ihore profit. If re igibn were now become the only wayhr the proud to- be advanced, and for the voluptuous toi filled wit i fenuial delights,, vud for tye fpiteful to beIJeVeng vd, what a cljaug w iul J there fuddenly be in thetanners of wicked men ! How reformed would theycem ? Very g .od'in outward appeirance, and yet at: ad as evei }• in a garb indeed of religion, but deceiving• hemielves as- weii'as others with a db'guife ; ‘ having a, form of gouliuefs, but denying the power j- being all| the while in the gall of bitternefi;, and in the bon4sof inicjuiiylovers of pleafure more than lovers ofd ,’ having their hearts full of all the abominations5f pride, and the idolatry of covctoufnefs.j Flatterers pretend to be, and femetimes think theoi"*Ivee, fincere and faithful friends; but when the mandiom they love fo pafGonately is falling, and theyget asar off as they can from the ruins of his greatnefs, thent laft they find out the myftery, if they know it not be¬fore, that all theit fond and officious fcrvice was no* ra¬pe cf to him, but t'nemfelves ; that they did not love hisitrfon but his fortune, his-gifts, and the benefit :;.eyoped to receive from his power.uch a difcovery doth this way of Pfovid*ncr ..<.kcrnice ‘there isone event to the rigftteoiis andito th wick*d: iuce men are'poor afid qejpifeal notwith tanduigheir jutfice and religion, at^l, af it fotnetiuies happens,he poorer and the more defpifed fortlkeh' fake; the men,vho care for nothing but tjjiavv^rld’s good, will bcun-uil and faitlilefs, ard hntban&fulj and' pi-rjureq,if it wijlerve their turn better, * They will fay unto God, depart.1 from us, for we defire not the knowledge of thy ways.jV hat is th? Almighfy/tfiat we ftto'uid ferve him i AndJob xxu 14. £ ji'hat which would have been hypoerify, ii rtligiowonld have done their bufincls, v ill h-' profancRefs. ifwill hot That which would haw he n iheli crci wvkicnefs of the moft clofc and retired thoughts ica-ce rtflected on by him that thinks it, wili now be the op.wickednels of word ^nd deed. » he man will be know:to fht world that would have been unknown to himfelHe will be thus much nearer to repentance, that he canot be deceived in himfelf, and think he needs it notOn the other fide, if a man will be religious and julltho’ he jse ever fo great a lofer by it, it he will hoifall liis eSfegrity in iicves and poveny, in hononrandug race, in good and evil repoit, wiitn he is advancecj,!and when hess.perfecuted forrignteouineis’ fake; thifwill be a demonliration that he rea^s and loves God »bc.vr all, that the iiws of God arc the ful s afhislifsthat he makes it li, ku line fit to be faved, that his re);gion and w\.rfhip ;s oet for worldly relpects, a:-d thatis good actions ar t p t vented and changed into finby corrupt nd., as d net v. ■.The fi.m of ah ‘tl eie phrtk ulars is, th.rt many of thgood and , v:l things f tin.-, life, happen to men by thijuttice orii jult’Ce of tharn ighbour;,who have frce-wiaud the* they ore forbidcht,, under feve e penalties,they are not ,1 refiftibjy re!lrained from doing injun’; thamen me profperous or affln'tcJ by the virtues or^vices utheir parents ; that the good a id bad are fo mixed thaithey canuot,in many cafes,but fai e aiikejand that the diitmetion betwixt the good and the bad is thereby madmuch more evident and undeniable; ai d therefore ti ermuft be ‘ one event to the rigiitebus and to t.’.e wickedBut for a further anfwer, all is not true that is ineplied in this objection. For,II It will appear, that they who make this objec 1■<SCn again It Providence are not ccrr.prte.it judges o 1that which them objection fuppofesft is fuppofcd in this objection that the righteous er>dure Ih.niuch gtkf, ami the wicked njoy fo much ph.V/f-t '|cen-e '.v:.>5ove to the righteon*♦ike notice and be co«5•a■. ■ ■ :.vp-ns.■ i'u: ■ jad.r jfrfj- fupp iition,l«ttwottiinga. idcr .d- i. I* ha. b> the - utward eftate of menwe know very litt’ : iTth-ir p.tlct.: ; :iefor pleafure, wecannot in? r fjv-a thcncc w icU is lit: good and whichB the bad condition.! I. Cy the oi tward t {late o; men we know very little)f t. eir prefent grief or pleafure That is a fecret .hing] nd depends upon kin t o caufes, mott of all uptm thofeirtvailing aff ctions that lake up and employ theiri houghia..ji It is vidblt who hath lands and gr“at houir3,and wholath none, who is followed by It’ long train and receivesabe refpects and the compluneuts, and who may go whe-her he will withou any notice ; hut which oi t: aie two:injoys himfeif bed, and lives m id .it eafe, :s itili a qu-l-ion, whicii thty, w o refolvt hy wh -c they fee, ate hk«-r to be miilakcu in their rcloi to mi plrct theirvy and pity, to envy the men t;ut ..re prferableun alleir great pomp ml flate, and to pity them twno areppy in their obfeunty ; to judge unrighteous judge-ent, b.caute they judge by outward appearance..1 Scrip’cr* and r^afori, and experience t ach us, that;|)od run have the moll true delight, both in profperity|id afdi ’.tion;‘that they have greatp- . ee who love God’slaw, nd nothing can offend them,’ Ffalin cxix. 165.I In pvofpcri.y there arc m<tny things contribute toin.prove the joy of the gaud ; A qui-t confcience,u.fl in God, moderation, immility, ‘ Prudence andremp. rance^ and joffice and f rtitu e wnjcb a e fuchIi ngs that men can hav. noth ug more profuablc in■heir life •’ Wifu. viii. 7.In (^•cintry calamity, fuch as ficknefs, Ioffes, See. thejjiliteous rave great relief and cafe from their repent-ice and prayers, and endeavour to make a henetit ofjeir crofs.and humble rchgnation and lubmifiion toGod,U t.icfr belief concerning the wifdom j»d goodnefs of> Providence ; but if they be perl*;cuted for right ouf-U; lake ; if,th^apjtiles 2 >d stratyrs fuffer for the con-f H )f< m» n of CKiiiT, it may bi a calamiiy in the iudgmtiuof their perfeeitcrs, but their own fenfe it is a itate ajov and triumph. Chrift teiis his difeipL-s, ‘ Intheworl‘ ye (hall have tribulation but in m. ye (hah have peac‘ Rejoice and be ixce dmg gtsd. for great k ycur re* (vardinheaven. Tl,efethi .g< h.r.v I fpoken that my jo I‘ might remain in you, anti that your joy might be 'till |* made known in to God ; and t e Ueace o' God wlicl• paffeth all underllandiug, (hah e p your hearts a* inkids through Chritt j.fus Rejoi e evermore; ini4 very tiling give than’ He g:v's an account f hinfftlf when l e it as going to lus uaayrdom n a! ke a mjljoverprefled with grief, ‘ I am now ready to beoff.id|* and the time ol my departure is at ha ;d. I have fougl,‘ a goi r fig' t 1 have ft; iiheJ tiif -om It, I have kept ttfaith. Henceforth there is laid up forme a crownwhich the Lord, the righteous lad'run:* flu'i g:re me at that d .y/ 2 Tim iv 6, 7 • ft&Thiirnp! ifcncd, an;! ioourged, and bauilhcU,, and iidhall the day long, yet fud of conlalation ‘ i’ney vvetroubled on eve-y fide, but not di(ii (led.:perplexed, vrut in deipaii'; perfected, btit not foriaken*call do)*but not deftreytd; forrttwful, yet always rejoicing; hring nothing, yet poirefhng all things.’ They fufitrall that malicious men in power could do, ‘but they wi* (lengthened with all might unto all patience and lot:‘ fuffering witli jdyfnlnefs ' Titty were thought toIn great n.iiety, bythefe who could i'ook no "urther ththe outward appearance; but all that wn.* they had #mighty (upport of faith rmd hope, the ttroiig ci v. oiti "irs of grace and the Holy Spirit, St Stephen’s vibe‘ Heaven opened, and Jeins on the right hand of Go'into whoft prefence, where there is fuhiefs of joy, tb(liouki iiiake io much the more hatte, by how a.uthe fharper their fuff-rings were.On the other fide, men magnify the profpenty ofrich, let them be tvef fo bad, aild ‘ they call the pryhappy; but the account will be another, thing, if thi( '! ^nf.errittfts bedueled Tlivirpi furesurefhori.a Haree cra Llii.gof thorns un.ier a put/ o'ten in'errupted,lit by unlucky accident;.but moil of t by theirfyn tuiruly p.-iTiuns ; which arc io man-. vi.» as, Iwaya; ![ce Urg within them, an-; goa vi; g tV.rough their bow-f'f. ‘ The wicked are like the isvabled f ' when u can-. <t red, whole waters call -ip .'arc 7»,«l art * Tnere »»|» peace, faith my God, to ne wic ctl,’ l a Ivii. iO.i What pea.-c can they have wi^Jcat- riantfucb ene-It- to peace within i'lemleiT-. s ? P id- fcjmiulncf;, at-iij, vain glory, fo< i fh hope, iiii tiab e d. fire ; whofe en-fitinents are eafiiy co- upc d with difeontent; who de¬ft their own lu .c iV. in .. .iitgs , f t^e greateft value,they be difappu m d in a t#iflr; 'jfhofe pleafures areen purchafed with long an 1 ft. .p pai s, that tre^don the heels of them An although confcicnce feernagtse them but little trouble, to be either reconciledwhat they do, r fait all ep, and to obferve nothingjevery now and tot n t • tear? them wit.'i dreams, andiiies them with villor.s,’ nd. uyion lome furprifingdent, will be apt t.? ii an era hidden, and awakea great affright, and wii- ml, without much ado, beiitifi'd and laid to fletp again.|[This is ve.y often the mlide of that gawdy (hew thatprafperity of the wicbed makes. Their aifliftionsnot io apt to deceive the Hand*, rs by ; there it is eafyf e bow their fins and unmortkied lulls, and evil con-fi'Ccs, increafe their torment; they have tifed religionill to exp. Ct any reli"l rrom thence; they know notto make God their rrfuge j they are, it may be, tooborn and defptr.-te to pray at all, or too guiby towith confidence ; their pride and haughtinefs make(i more impati nt; ttiey break their teeth with bitingchain ; they ftruwgle with that which is too ftrongtar'm ; they can neither call off nor bear their >ur-; they have no paiiuuct, hecaul they have ‘no hope,d arc v-ithout God in world 1u:n of tills conlideration is, That whatever theIduion of men be, high or low, rich or poor, So?6-- oof rvation will be found trur, that ‘ God givethU.51; that i- good in b;s hgiu, wiidom, and know-( .<s )ledgt and jdy,but to the finner he giveth trava;^.’ Ecii 2 6. And therefore they who conclude ot fi.enpr.“fent grief orpleafure by the outward eilate, arc incopeieut judges, and miftake the matter.*But fuppofmg their judgment concerning men’s plent tilate were true, anti the calamities were griavoujand the pleafures as pcrftft and entire as they fe. m: Yea. Front the knowledge of men’s prefent grief ( 'lpkafure, we cannot ijfer whllh is the good, and whieis the bad condition.When the effect of men’s fortunes upon their mine Iand manners is feen, how a lailirig contentment is o'tained or loft ; how the happim fs of another life is feured or neglefted ; then, and not till then a certa.judgement m*y he made. Now, upon inquiry, it will l!found, that, in thele tefpedf, both condifidiis pn ve sadvantage to the good by tl eir good life, at,d a mchiet to the wic ked by their abuie of themThe lighttdns. in authority, encourage and countnance the good, relieve the ej prtfled, ‘ break thejai* of the wicked, ai d pluck ihe !poil Jilt of their tertV 'Job. Xxix 7 and by tiieh juiHce and temperance,reveiai.ee to God and" to holy thi»»g«, bring religion nivirtue into more eflewn, and clo us mueh as in iIkui iito conv rt fmners. However, they are fucBa cheek aireftraint upon them, that the in wicked difpofition can ■fo openly and boldly aifeevtr ••tfeif as it world, ifthwere Irt alone, both in doing wrong, and enticing oth»to do the fame ii: a which they commit.When thenghtebifc abound in wealth,-‘'they make* themfeives fneae; 0' the unrighteatis Mamn-on;’ ttfgive alms, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, viiit tfat be riels and the widow in the it diftreirp watch and pr ;left luxury, or pride, or profaneneft, r uncban aO'irefs, ihould turn thei temporal bleilwv - mto piagtand curfes; tliey tniit not in unco tain riches, butthe living God, whofe gitis they receive with thanlj.fulnefs and iear; they do good, and are rich in gdrworks as well as great pofTeUh na} * ready to diflj* butc, willing to communicate ; laying up in ll<* for themfeives a good foundation agaiult. the timein) ... .|‘<eiPf, tVjat they may lay bold on<eterfiaI life/ C Ttnj*,vi. j8, 19.The wicked maybe in the fame'profperity,but withi mother behaviour. The worfc they are, the more they1 ivill be tempted and infnared; they who were proud andjTam before, wi l be infenfibly led a way into more pridefind more vanity, forgetful of him who made the differ-mcc1, eafify abufed into monftrous conceits of thetnfelves,jtmd the rood iinjuft comparifons of therofelves with o-1 hers, fofttned fo much with delight, that tin"/ will he a*i tie to endure nothing that is crofs to thrir will and hu«aour, fetting no bounds to their enjoyments, impatient1 f having their prefent pleafures allayed with confidera-t on of the future, with the fear of God, or the remem-I ranee of death ; which, notwithftanding, comes on a-ji ice, fomewhat the fader it may be, by reafon of tbeirjrafures, and if they take no better care, will furprife|em altog- ther unprep'/red for the change of theirJeafant life (if it were granted to be fo ! into ficknefsI d languifhing, and the expeftation of death, and theiW of judgement1 The diiference is no lefsin theaffhet ions that beralthchtaous and the wicked together ; tor the wicked, ifey continue impeniteu.:e, w 11 grow werfe and wot hr,Kious.and malicious,and lullm., and farther f>omfeek-1 to God than in their po fperiry; but the i line c mdi-|n (hall be to the good a mouitorro exami: c themfeWet,fearcb and try their ways, and be , -ryexafl T> theirarm tion, to inquire out and amend their fmallelt|lta, of which in their beUei dis' • th y took littlelice, and contented themf Ive-; with being kept backpn fumptuous fins ; to renew, and confirm, andngthen their good refolutions, which even lawhd,de-it had made too loofe and (lack : And whereas, inr Ioitows, many of the wicked renounce God, andonour him with pt’tde, and ttubbornnefs, and infide-, and blafphemy, and impatience ; they own God’sunion, and humble themfelves under his mightyd and acknowledge his jufiicc, and honour him V-men with confeflion of fin, and repentance, audniffitris, and prayers, and thaakfgivingX 18 1 fTInis the fame events are totVe i-ighteotisa notrrtfti-jing food> or a wholfome medicine, aua to to the wtckedjlja -.weet or a bitter poif m.If tiien, by u’fvit is vitiblcof men's condition, we can-|jnot judge certainly of their grief and pl.afure, and iH|we could, yet grief'or pleafure may either of them b;|'a bldltng or a cu fea and v>Iiich it i n a particu'ar caielfRO man can tell .f he know not how cither of th in wirljbe uled, and wfiat effeetthe.v will have: Alfo, if the i^bljjeer*on betlf no more force, un'ef-iit be granted that pWwlent delight is g od, and pain is ivil. it will be plain-ejsough, that fomething is fuppof d which is very' obicur'|and doubtful, and hard to be judged of, when thi» i u|led as an argument againil Providence, that there if'‘ one even, to the rigliteousand to the wicked.’III. However, flie day of judgement is a fuiHcicnJanfwer to the objecuan.I’iie hchef and exTrectation of this was implied in tilliaft particular, ast c gteat re • fon of the behaviour [the righteous in ooth conditions, and .-.-s th'ir enat tu.l•part in af'licti >n, and the rot believing or confidi risr-tins, or coifidering-i.- r -thcr - with dcfpc.ir than In o--. rthe reafon why the wicked are fo -ill-goverred, and i|ten fo unhappy inthei; profperity, and fc comfort lif- 1affliction : But if hr.'- men .ive iu more deligh., ajgood men in more trouble and grief than indeed tiirdo, and God would not interpofe his alntie'hty P'VF4o alter the courfe of things ; y . t, when the wicked ‘ I!away into everJafljng puni^nment, and the righteous jto life eternal,’ Matth.xxv 46. ‘ then (hall*y~ rett|and difeern betwixt tin- righteous and the wick^!,*|twixt him that fetveth G d, and him that ferveth hjlnot. ’ Mah iii iH. And though men are apt to to tli Bthat time ft->nds almott ffiil wiicn they feel (harp pa.jjand the extremity of them makes minutes feem Ion;than days, as days, in a tranfpnrt of pleafuve, f'iwifter than minutes, yet the no proportion betw ixt tl •and eternity will endure all this tblfe reck ming, Isuites a clear accoiui; and Uiiani we: able apology II* *9 }ivitte'nc^ notwhliftaiujuig When men'fed fhefmarti heir own, or think of their fri n^’* : t heir1 ;ny'a profperity, thev are eaf:iy Uduaed with impa¬le, or envy, or cotr^fiion. But if you would judgei: y how iuconfiderable the thino-;! that happen now,in comparifon of an eternal date, i .ok beck to thejltiarchfl and prophets, to the apoltlea and rr.nvtyi'f,abov- aU- to ‘ J-:fus, the author and fi-iiflier or our1 i, who, forthe joy that was fet before him, enduredi lcrofa, drfpifmg the fhame and is fet down at theI t hand o^the throne ot God ’ Heb. xii, 2. Whati f that tiio Tient ot life.in which they were perfeented,?..ted, tormented, in eomparifon of all the time fince: jtor tver to come, in all which they enjoy the moft|ji and ravithinff delights, wherewith God is now re-li.ring their obedience, and humility, a id F.ii'h, andfence ? Is the objection a gain II Providence, f.r leav-lljthtm expofed to fo manv calaaiities, too hard fori to anfwer.? Do they think ncaven, upon theUs they had it »<x> dear a purchnfe- i ft was expedi-jpnd rcc ffsay. in purfuancc of’the wife t-ounfels ?ndftofes of GodJ this, they Ihould fnflfer fur a-while :| is God unrighteous ? ‘ Doth he forget th«r workIfaith, and labour o\ love, and patience of hop--’ i|Paul, when he felt.the fmart tif hi • -prefent afflic-i , called tlu’Ti ‘ light alflictioi;'',, -.or a nionn nt, notjfthy to be compared w th th - gloryto he rew led »fijjit mud he judge of them now, that >iie affii- tionsibafi, and rent msbered -nly for ih, help antDnnvale% joy,'now tliat he is rtr^r-ed. imw ‘ r poffeflion ofj glcrioufc reward, which he then had ..nly in viewiprofpect,I'ii the other side, whither arc the grant oppr.fforsdeftroyers iJ mankind gone*.'1 Whe»e is Herod andjtius Pilate, cud the reft yf the bloodi perfecatorsj ft and his faints ? What is hecomeiaf all their prideI (their envied power and glon ? Is God their debtorjjfor their iisjnftice and blafphemies, and t! etr info-1, and profane joys ? Hath he forgotten what theyJ (Or, doth he approve it ? Now they know' that■h.e ther they did not believe, or would nut couii-»le:* .o t4er before} thfy hb patience waited for.pcntance, and naw tVcy fcf'l the puniftunent of theirm the exquifite torments of the foul ; ai’.d, full of fiand terror, expeft greater rt t"e refurrection of thedy. ‘ It it ieem ftraiige to you that God fhonld fuff; rrighteous to be at the mercy of the wicked, beholdrich man in torment looking up to Abraham, and b 1ging for a drop of water to coo hlfc tongue ; and Athhm, without any compaflion of his fon, defending 'jullice of God’s dealing with him and the poor beg}that lay at hi» doorBehold the goodnefs and fererity of God }* His goodnefs,’leadin;T therighteousintoall the wof difeipline and trial, proving their obedience inmoll dangerous terr.ptataion, both from that plea! -winch theii- nature covets, and that pain which theirtuve ab! ors ; that when ti e world ami the fleHi, anddevil have aifaulted them with all their weapons,may get an entire !and perfeA vftory, and their irgrtv mav have the cleared evidence, and they mayconfirmed in faith, and made lirong, and conitant, tperil vering in virtue, and, after their good and failfu! ferviec, ‘ enter into them malter’s joy.‘ His fevcijty,’ fu fieri ng tre kicked fometfmes topampertd with fulnefs of drlifd't, and latisiied intheir defires, and i'emetimes to be afflicted with crotland dilappointmentP, and tempted with laileriesplagues to thi utmoft impatience, that they alfo maytried, and that the wickedn- f which would lie coitcied for want of occafion, rr.; y break out and be broujto light, that in the variety of conditions, they mayled, if they will tbemfclvce, into the commillion oftfins, and may add iniquity to iniquity till the tneaf ■be full, that God n ay be glorified in the day of vtation and the revelation of that righteous judgme !(which how hara foever th< y may feem nowy will plaly refolvc all the problems and riddles of Provid noThe fum of what hath been laid, is. That it is mlvordably ntedfary for things to fall out to the good <;the bad indifferently and uncertainly : To no judlment can be made by what happens to men, ot their g( 31 )pleafur;, RjKr vriich o‘' them is go >d or bad for tHeavitat there will he a day of judge-neat, wherein everyn Hia’l receive according to his works, and thereforei is no argument agaiaft ^rovidtnee, that4 there is onei.ivent to the rigitte. us and to the wicked ’MBu’ it may be object"d from ferpturee How dothijts confiiWvi.th what there is declared, that ‘ godlin iaffy profitable ;or all things, har-r.g the promife of theife that now is,* t Tim \i '•>. According to which,11; find Moles and the Pfilins, and the writings ofi uomon and tne Prophets, and in tile New Teda nentAcral expreflrm . which fee.n to import a proiniTe oflibfperi'y to the righteous,.! A fuffieient anfwer to all the places of Scripture thatrdledg -d to th it p.urpofe, will be given in fomc offe three particulars.t. Abuudauee ot thefe promif s ufually infilled on,mtde to particular peifons or nations, «nd muft notextended farther, as promifes for the performance of:ich God’s faithfulnew is engaged, though they mayapplied as an encouragement to hope, when therems to be a parity or advantage of r afon in the cafe,lany things were promifed to the patriarchs, and to: captains, and judges, and kings of Ifrael, and topkets, und apollles, and they were affured that thefemuft happen, for which they had the ftcurity ofid’s word. Bur it would he a great extravagance forjy man eke to b. aiTored of th- fame events by apply.U thole pro jirs If a foluier be certain that he lhallv victor-, b ca ;fe it’was p">mifed .to Jcdhua, or ak man t' at he Ih A recover, becaule a prophet wasit to idez'*kiah,to teli aim -hut he Ihould he healed,if a palien,' r in his -hip allure all his company ofeft- pc with lift when they are driven bv a ftonn up-thebocks, becEufe the ^ngelof God wasfent to tell. apolllt Paul, ‘ God hath given thee all them that1 with thee,’ Aftsxvii. 77 The things may happencordmgiy, as the prediction of a falfe prophet mayline to pafs by chance, and then they, who ufe thej-ipture in this falhion, may talk as they pieafe of thejll and power of fiUih, aud what wonders it can do.f =* Twhlva’l <" pr^mift s t'ist arc to be found m the Bi'b!But if thefe thiues hapten not. then their confident ajplication to them!idvc -, of nromifes that were made t0111008,011051010 i'cands! and blafpbemy, and reprehn;God as a deceiver, that promifes and does not perfiv i*But though the promifes to them, are not prom fes rus, yet the couiideration of them is of great afe to cpage eur obedieace, and encourage ear hope, when vfee iiow M .crally God bellowed upon them temporal bh j<lings ; and though we cannot infer from thence that tfhall he Lb fled in the i«ine mar.net, we mav infer tl ffaint- lore and care of u , and acceptance of our fait ffu feiwice. In this fenft, ‘ what foe ver things we|written afore-time, were written for our learning, th jwe, thro’ p ieure snd c-.-mLit of the ferip tuts tnigi*'have hope ]<om >. v. a.1 TiidL premifes. whic1 conctni all pood men, rjnot promifes <>i profpcrrty. but ot God’s protection arica'e of them in tvi-i-v condit-on, and cauting ‘ ad thin* to work together for good to them that love GodRor-v vui 28 Nothing lhall happen totl* m vvithn'his notice and allowance. It may be good for them1beafflidted, and therefore the fame los e cf God ion'-timrs prevents affictionsfrom befa’ling t^em, fometirr.de iveis them af tr they have futfered a little, fometimilkeeps t' em for a long time uncer fevere difeipline, b 'comforts and fupports them al1 t^e wl.ile : ‘ 'I’he itejcf a good man are ordered by the Lord: Though 1fsll, he fhall net be uttery c?.T down ; for the Lotinholdeth him with his hand,’ Pfalm xxwii^ 23 2.* God will not forfakc him, j>oi fo* get his complaint .If troubles abound, ‘ Coni c;!at ion (liall ah in id inu.more. Tho’ the outward man perilh, the in\var<t mart irenewed oay by day,’ 2 Cor iv 16. ‘ The Lord knoveth how to deliver the godly out of temptation?,’ 1 Fe:1ii. 9 either by keeping them out of that con ’ition,: rwhich they will be tempted, or so afjiliing them w'i; jhis grace, that they fhal! not fall into that fin • for e jjample, that apoftacy) to which they are tempted ;th jthey may fall iniothat perfecution, from whence ye;ijkrong temptations to apoftacy may arife. ‘ God i* Lit. itf h )], wlio will not ruffe* f''em to be 't<’n>pteff -abotttare able ; but v il! with tae temptatioa a’i'u make(/ay to efca.x;, that t!u-y may be able to bear it,’or. x. ij rius watching of Providence over thehteous and care for them, and affi'iuuj; them in eve-condition with convenient grace, m t!’C !am of thofcmifes wiiich are sMolutely made to go I'inefs in theHipture, and efpecially in the Ntw Tcfta.ncnt.V Many of the place s of fenpture mod infiftifd onii this argument, are not promifes, but general rules,Krein the ordinary method of Providence, and thefjal tffccts of many virtues and vices are de; lared So-non tells us of that wifdo-n, wtich conhtfsefpecialiy1the fear of C^c.d ; ‘ Length of days ; re m her ri> litnd, and in her left hand, riehes and honour/ TVov.16. * By h niility and the fear of the bord areSes and lion ur and life,’ Pr. v. xxi 4 'Tiiere arer.y fuch gen;"'d rides as thefe, the rtafonand truthwhich arc evi lent in mod cafes- and it is as evident,ii tt they will n: t Sjold alw.-ys Li the ordinary courfething", the mod ftrengtb, and bed courj/e, and theled conduct dial! get the victory: Dili genre in a proable calling,, dull make a ma Hch ; v he be humble,f ball be beloved ; if he he d, he ih-U b * trui’ted;e that is prudent and ; ni in i actions .b .ll be e-•emed and hav: n or d rrp.itation ; b it for all mat,ciclents which no m in can forbe o prevent, may in-pofe betwixt the moil lively means and the ends,re chance of war, thieves, robbers, unfaithful fervants»feacher. us friends, the con. ructions of jealoufy andnature, fee ret whiioerings, or op n defaming, and•e accufing ; the peftilenc that wnlkrth in dark.r fs,feeling a man’s good name, and the arrows whichouni at noon- day, may hinder all thofe virtues of thatvard wmch is alfo the natural effect and confequcncer the n. And in fuch c ifes, ‘ The race will not be tothe fwift, nor the battle to t e ftrong; neither yetbread to the wile, nor yet riches to : he men of un-gderllanding, nor yet favour to men of fit ill ’ Eccl ix.jit Thofe are gene* 1 vules, but time and chance maxe[jiany exceptions j'ftom all which it appears confident*itli fcriptusr, we?! as rt-fon, tbrt ‘ there is otigf* vent t* thf1 righteous and to the wicked.’The cor fid erst ion of what h*s heen faid, will difpol ius to he How in judging our neighbours, and careful i'gov'rn'.Rg ouriclvt ■, as we pafs together thro’ all thjchan es and chances ot th's mortal life, Events vi|(no Setter juftify our opinion of men’s actions, than elf; mples will prove the goodnefs of our own. We nupflfjudge by mler, not be fucccfs, and we must live '> Irul-p, not by examples.Defpife nn man far his poveity or ill fuccefs, legt ,yo||defpiiea man whom God wdl honour. ‘ Elefs not tlt‘(|covetous whom the 1 ord ahhorreth- Let not thirl'hem envy fniners: But be thou in the fear of the Loiall the dry long: For fure?y there is an end, and thin i:expeftation (hall not be cut off’ Prov xxiii 17, 1$]In affliction be patient. In the dayr of adverflty colfider In profperity', ‘ be not high minded, but fear 1JRemember, that a low estate may bey ur great benefand fecurity.attd that power and riches may he a fn?sto their owner. Learn of St Paul, ( fn whatfoevrstate you are, therewith to be content.’ Take in goopart, and make the best ufe of every thing that happens, and be well aflured, that nothing can happen nmifs, if that le your continual care, w hich w s the refult of all Solomon’s Hudy and experience, Eccl xi:13, 1‘ Fear God and keep bis comm moment , fjthis is the wbo'e duty of man : for God flvtll bring every work irto judgement, with every fecret th,:ug|whether it be good or w hether it be evil.’r i n i 5.