HISTORYOF THELIFE AND DEATH,OFTHE GREAT WARRIORROBERT BRUCE,King of Scotland.GLASGOW :PKINTET FOR THE BOOKSELLER?.108YHOT8IHfMTktm <ivxi miurciaroMflAYT Ti SMO ant0'■■■l a mo ' >• • •■.■.-■ 3 ir .>t/. '■ . ■'■. ■ 'oc.! i : - i' *'V )[KING ROBERT BRUCE.hen Edward the First of England, in theear 1305, had cruelly put to death the Scot-ish Champion Sir William Wallace, the boldssertor of Scotland’s independence, he imaginedimself to be now secure in the possession of thatkingdom. John Baliol, who latterly had beening, or rather Edward’s viceroy, was now dead,nd the goverment had been committed into theands of Baliol’s nephew, John Comyn, who wasompletely devoted to Edward’s interests. Buthe English monarch had still one person toread,—that was Robert Bruce, the young Earlf Garrick, whose grandfather had been the rivalandidate of Baliol for the crown of Scotland,when their pretensions had been unfortunatelysubmitted to the decision of Edward at Norham,n the year 1292. All along it had been thejpinion of the majority of the Scots that thedaims of Bruce were the best founded, and henimself had never lost sight of his title.Bruce was one of those individuals admirablyitted, both by qualities of mind and body, for^reat and dangerous undertakings. His framewas vigorous and robust; he was possessed of thetiost heroic courage ; but, above all, he was en¬dowed with invincible patience and unswerving4perseverance. He at that time, like many otherof the Scottish nobility, resided in LondonWhile there he secretly made proposals to Cornynwho was well aware of his rights, for the purposof recovering of the Scottish crown. Corny,appeared to enter into his views, and arrangements, either proposed or seconded by him, wit.a view to Bruce’s recall to the throne of his amcestors, had proceeded to considerable maturitywhen the perfidy of Comyn was made known t»Bruce by Edward’s upbraiding him with adesigiupon Scotland. He even shewed him one oComyn’s letters.Bruce, though startled by the announcement,and enraged at the treachery of his confidant, hatpresence of mind enough to subdue his emotions,and answered the English king in so mild ancprudent a manner that he appeared satisfied. Buthe only dissembled his resentment.One evening, not long after, Edward was soimprudent while heated with wine, as to disclosehis intentions respecting Bruce, and even namedlthe following day for putting him to death, whenthe Earl of Gloucester, who was a friend of Bruce,,immediately made him aware of his danger bysending him at midnight, by a servant, a pair ofspurs and a piece of money. Bruce understood!the hint. As there was at the time a fall of snow,!he caused his horse and those of two attendantsoiljto be shod backwards, to prevent their being| tracked by the print of the hoofs.As he drew near the Scottish border, by thei western side, he observed a person journeyingi alone, who seemed very anxious to avoid him.i Bruce stopt this suspicious-looking personage,,and, on close examination, found him to be ai messenger charged with a letter from Comyn tothe English king, in which he strongly advisedI Edward to lose no time in either putting Brucei: in close confinement, or despatching him at once.I Incensed at the villany of. Comyn, Bruce stab-bed the messenger. Bruce then hurried on for. I the castle of Loehmaben.Having there learned that Comyn was at Dum-i.j fries, he hastened thither, inspired with feelingsi! of the deepest indignation against this treacherousjl nobleman. On his arrival in the town, he foundIf that Comyn was at that moment engaged at hisIt devotions in the church. But this considerationE| did not suspend his purpose. He hastened to theli sacred place, and upbraided him with his perfidy.!l| At last his resentment and passion rose to so| violent a height, that he drew his dagger andij stabbed him to the heart before the altar,—anji atrocious deed, which no injury, however flagrant,t eould at all justify or even extenuate. No soonert had the crime been commited than Bruce felt allI the horrors of remorse he rushed out of the churchGpale and trembling, where he met two of hisfriends, Lindsay and Kirkpatrick. They havingquestion ,'d him as to the cause of his agitation,Bruce replieo, “ It fares ill I doubt I have slainComyn.” “ You doubt,” cried Kirkpatrick; “ Iwill secure him !” So saying he rushed into thechurch, and plunged his dagger into Comyn’sheart. It was perhaps fortunate that Bruce hadno time to brood over what had happened, butrequired immediate action to secure his personalsafety. He threw himself on Comyn’s horse, andcollecting his small band of friends around him,suddenly rode to the castle where the Englishjudges were then sitting, and seizing the gates,summoned all the Scots to his assistance. Hethen sent word to the judges to surrender them¬selves, but found the gates of the court barricad¬ed ; fire was instantly brought to burn them out;and, afraid of being destroyed, they surrendered,and were permitted to flee to England.The nation being generally inclined in Robert’sfavour, and having besides the support of themost of the nobles, his cause daily gained newfriends and greater strength ; so that in the courseof a few weeks from his flight from London hewas crowned king, with all due solemnity, at theroyal palace of Scone, near Perth.Nothing could exceed the rage of Edwardwhen informed of this event. He instantly levied! an army for the invasion of Scotland, which he| put under the command of the Earl of Pembroke.I As that nobleman proceeded into Scotland hei was joined by many of Comyn’s friends and! adherents, who considered Bruce as a bloody!i| assassin. Robert’s army on this account wasnot so numerous, and his soldiers besides wereji raw and undisciplined. While the two armies layin the neighbourhood of each other ready to en-I gage, near Methven, in Perthshire, Robert sentif a challenge to the English general, which he ae-| cepted, saying he would fight Bruce on the mor-I row, But, instead of waiting till next day, he stoleI upon the Scots during the night, who were wholly1 unprepared. Bruce hastily arming himself, andIs commanding his leaders to follow his example,1 had scarcely time to mount his horse, when he111 found himself furiously attacked by a force whichi; nearly tripled his own ; he made, however, a des-icj perate resistance, and the battle was maintainedi) for a while with considerable obstinacy. Theiking was four times unhorsed, and as often res¬cued and remounted ; but the Scots were finallyoverpowered by numbers, and the rout becamegeneral. Robert, with a broken remnant, escap¬ed into Athole.Bruce and his party now led the life of out¬laws among the hills, till the greater part of hisfollowers were dispersed or broken down by mis-8ery ; and at last having received intelligence thathis queen, with the wives and sisters of his fol¬lowers, had arrived at Aberdeen, with the deter^mination. to share their perils, he ventured fromhis stronghold, and, meetfflg them in that city,conducted them in safety into the heart of Bread-albane. They then slowly retreated to the headof Loch Tay; but Bruce now found himself be¬set with danger, as this part of the Highlandsinto which he had been compelled to retreat wasunder the sway of his mortal enemy, the Lord ofLorn, who had married the aunt of the murderedComyn. This chief accordingly assembled hisfriends and dependants, and in a body of a thou¬sand strong, attacked Bruce, while retreating ina narrow valley. They swarmed round the littlestill phalanx like hornets, and several deadly en¬counters took place. At one moment Bruce him¬self had a narrow escape. Three strong High¬landers threw themselves in his way, resolved tobecome masters of his person. One seized hisbridle-reins, and attacked him in front; anothergrasped his steel boot, and thrusting his arm be¬tween the stirrup and the foot, endeavoured tounhorse him. Bruce with one blow felled theforemost to the ground, and clapping his legsclose to the flanks of his horse, spurred him, anddragged his other opponent off his feet. In themean time, his third assailant sprung up behind9him, and, grappling him round the middle, at-i itempted to stab him with his dirk. Bruce, how¬ever, shook the mountaineer from his hold, and:as he fell cleft him with his battle-axe from theskull to the chin : he then despatched his com-i panion, whose hands were pinioned by his legr and stirrup to the horse, and, disengaging him-iself from the dead body, rejoined his men.The king and his small subsistence; resolvedIto effect a passage into the north of Ireland, cross-fling over from Argyleshire. In this undertakingm he encountered dreadful hardships and dangers.1 Many of his party were cut off, and the rest so1 dispirited that they all forsook him, except SirGilbert Hay, and a few of their vassals and de¬pendants.In the midst of these distressing circumstancesRobert’s natural fortitude and ardour remainedunshaken. He encouraged his few faithful fol¬lowers with prospects of future success; and, tobeguile the heaviness of their gloom, he relatedthe adventures of brave princes and warriors whohad triumphed over similar reverses. When this:il small remnant reached the borders of Lochlo-mond, their progress was arrested from the wantof means of conveyance to the opposite shore.An old crazy boat was at last espied by Douglas,and, what between swimming and the aid thusthrown in their way, the whole party got across10They were now reduced to the last extremity,and were wandering about in quest of food,when they were met by Lennox, an attachedfriend of Robert’s, who had hitherto been i<rnor-oant of the fate of his king. At the sight ofBruce’s forlorn condition, this faithful chieftainburst into tears, and Robert, overpowered by hisfeelings, wept in sympathy. Journeying on¬wards, Bruce and his friends were received byAngus of the Isles, Lord of Kintyre, who enter¬tained them with the warmest hospitality at hiscastle of Dunavarty.From thence the king, with a faithful few, pass¬ed over to an island on the north coast of Ireland,where they remained for a season free from thepursuit of their enemies.But though the king was for the present safe,his friends in Scotland were exposed to dreadfulsufferings by the cruelty of Edward. The queenand the daughter of Bruce, on hearing of the ap¬proach of the English, had fled to the sanctuaryof St Duthac in Tain. The Earl of Ross, whofavoured the English, violated the sanctuary, and,seizing those unfortunate ladies, delivered themup to Edward. The queen was confined in dif¬ferent places for nearly eight years, and her daugh¬ter was sent to a convent. The Countess of Buch¬an, who had placed the crown on Robert’s head athis coronation, was shut up in a small iron cage11il^llin the oastle of Roxburgh; not a few who hadfavourd Robert’s cause were beheaded, and manyof inferior rank suffered on the gallows; and, tocomplete the measure of the severities exercisedagainst the Scots, the pope’s legate at Carlislej; at Edward’s instigation, passed sentence of ex-i:,l communication against Bruce and all who shouldI remain faithful to his cause,—a dreadful sentencei; in those days, which never failed to carry alongVi: with it the deepest awe and alarm.Bruce sent over Sir James Douglas and Siri Robert Boyd to attempt a fort on the isle of Ar¬il ran, then occupied by the English. Their suc-icess was complete; on learning which Robertimmediately followed them. It was then con-| cefted that their next endeavour should be to re-Oi cover possession of the district of Garrick, inA Ayrshire, in which Bruce’s patrimonial domains. lay. With this intent, Cuthbert, a confidentialservant, was sent over with instructions, that, ifthe people were favourable, he should display alight from an eminence above the castle of Turn-berry.I Cuthbert found matters in the very worst state.The English held possession of all the places ofimportance; and so overawed were the people bytheir power and severity, that they were, for themost part, either indifferent or hostile to any ef¬forts on behalf of Robert.12 *On the day appointed for making the signal,Bruce and his party repaired to their station;*'ut no signal appeared. At last, while hope wasbecoming extinct, they perceived a distant gleam.Hastening to the boat, they rowed over for theGarrick shore. Darkness overtaking them, theyheld oh, guided by the blaze; but, jumping a-shore, how strangely were they surprised to meetCuthbert running up and telling them there wasno chance of success! “ Traitor!” exclaimedBruce in a rage, “ why did you then make the sig¬nal ?”—“ I made no signal,” replied Cuthbert;“ but, observing a fire on the eminence, I wasafraid that it might deceive you, and I hastenedhither to warm you from the coast.”This was disastrous intelligence to Robert;but he resolved to persevere. Fortunately a re¬port had been current, which was credited by theEnglish, that he was dead. This belief causedhis enemies to relax in their vigilance j and Rob¬ert, taking advantage of this, surprised and over¬powered several of their detachments and garri¬sons ; but the English having at last collected avery powerful force, he was compelled to retireinto the mountainous districts of Garrick.In the mean while Edward had made prepara¬tions oh a greater scale than ever for the invasionof Scotland. But, while about to cross the border,he was suddenly taken sick, and soon after expir-I 13Ied. With his last breath he commanded his sonto carry his body along with the army, and neverto bring it back to England till he had achievedthe full and complete conquest of Scotland.E Though the young king, Edward the Second,■flid not think proper to comply with this part of/iis father’s injunctions, he resolved to carrythrough the campaign. But, being of a much, more indolent and less enterprising spirit, he hadii not proceeded far into Scotland when he becameI tired, and returned south.This inglorious retreat was highly gratifyingto Bruce, who now advanced into Galloway.While he was here recruiting his ranks, he wasopposed by the Earl of Pembroke, who had beenI appointed Guardian of Scotland in Edward’sname. Being overawed by the superior numbersof the English general, Robert prudently retiredto the north, where he possessed himself of thewhole country without molestation. Returningaaain northwards, with a more efficient armv,he encountered an English force under JohnComyn, Earl of Buchan, who fled at Bruce’s ap-q proach.About this time Robert was attacked by a se-v vere fit of illness, brought on no doubt by the(unceasing hardships and toils to which he hadbeen for so long a time exposed. While in thislanguid state, the Earl of Buchan assembled a14large army, with which he resolved to march a-gainst King Robert. The two armies met near *Inverury, in Aberdeenshire. Feeble and depress¬ed as the kingwas, he did not decline the contest, ;nor would he listen to any proposal of delegating :the command to another. He desired that heshould be lifted from his couch and placed on 1 (horseback; and in this situation he was support¬ed on each side by an attendant. He sketchedthe order of battle, and led on the charge withhis usual courage. The onset of the troops,augmented perhaps by a sympathy for thepeculiar situation of their leader, was so impe¬tuous, that the enemy were almost instantly bro¬ken, and pursued with great slaughter. Fromthis day a visible and progressive change for thebetter took place in Robert’s health, and he him¬self declared that the excitment of that day haddone more for him than twenty physicians.He determined to proceed against his old ene¬my the lord of Lorn. Who mustering his wholeforce ; awaited the approach of the Scottish king.The only entrance into the country of Lorn laythrough the pass of Brandir, w hich winds alongthe rugged base of a noble mountain three thou¬sand feet above the sea; on the other side a pre¬cipice almost perpendicular descended to Loch-awe ; and, farther on, the pass became so narrowthat two men could scarcely march abreast.15The men of Lorn, about 2000 strong, conceal-i ed themselves in the thick copsewood which co¬vered the sides of the mountain, intending to at¬tack the king’s army while entangled in the de-j file ; but Bruce having received information fromii his scouts of the disposition of the army of Lorn,il despatched Sir James Douglas, with his archersij and light-armed troops, by a pathway, which the| enemy had neglected to occupy, with directionsij to advance silently, and gain the heights above(and in front of the hilly grounds where the menM of Lorn were concealed; and Bruce at the headl| of his own division fearlessly advanced into thejj defile. Having proceeded some little way, afearful yell burst from the rugged bosom of thei’mountain; and the woods, which the moment be-i fore had waved in silence and solitude, gave forthj their birth of steel-clad warriors, and became an-uimated with the vitality of war. Whilst Bruceil pressed with his division up the side of the moun-i tain, and furiously attacked the men of Lorn,' amidst masses of rock which the enemy rolled' down from the precipices, Sir James Douglasi and his party suddenly raised a shout from the■ heights above them, and showered down their(| anows, and, when these missiles were exhausted,i attacked them with their swords and battle-axes.I. This attack, both in front and rear, occasionedI the total discomfiture of the army of Lorn. Al(iwooden bridge thrown over the Awe, and sup¬ported upoft two immense rocks, formed the sol¬itary communication between the ground wherethe battle was fought, and the country of Lorn.To this bridge the residue of the Lorn army flew,with the object of securing their retreat, and thencutting it down, and thus to throw the impassabletorrent of the Awe between them and their en¬emies. But their intention was frustrated byDouglas, who, rushing down from the highgrounds at the head of his troops, attacked thebody of the mountaineers who occupied the bridge,and drove them from it with great slaughter ; sothat Bruce and his division coming up, passed itwithout molestation ; and the army of Lorn werein a few hours literally cut to pieces ; while theirchief, from his ships, witnessed their discomfiture,without being able to render them the smallestassistance. The king now gave up Lorn’s coun¬try to military plunder, and shortly after laidsiege to the Castle of Dunstaffnage, the strong¬hold of the chief; and having wasted the country,<uid drawn his lines so closely round the castle that>10 supplies could be introduced, he attacked andcarried the outworks ; and Lorn, compelled byfamine and the fear of a final assault, surrender¬ed. Bruce then led back his army to resume hiswarlike labours in the low country. Successevery where crowned his efforts, Scotland was11 freed from her oppressors, and Robert BrucoNwas once more an independent sovereign.But while the Scottish king was thus victori-ious over the English, Edward was actively pre-ii paring for another invasion, on a scale of such,'magnitude as plainly showed how incensed andi mortified he was at the determined opposition ofilthe Scottish nation.In the mean time the English retained posses-llision of no place of importance, except the castle!of Stirling. In this castle there was a consider¬able garrison, commanded by a very brave knight,.1:1 Sir Philip Moubray. This stronghold being con-ii sidered of great importance, Robert was veryianxious to reduce it, and intrusted the siege of itp to his brother Ed>vard, in those skill and valour;i:he put every trust. Moubray had made prepar-J^ation for a stout defence ; but as he knew the de-5, termined perseverance of the king’s brother, hei< proposed to deliver the fortress into his hands onr a given day, at the distance of seven months,if provided no succour should in that interval arrive:i from the English king, his master,—a stipulationto which Edward agreed. When this transac¬tion was made known to Bruce, he was verym much displeased at so rash and imprudent a bar-;a Sa^n» but being too honourable to break thetreaty, he chose the only alternative he now had,18;to meet the enemy in the held before the appoint¬ed day.Edward had now matured his plans, and en¬tered Scotland with the largest army that hadever crossed the border, for the purpose, not onlyof relieving Stirling, but of utterly overwhelm¬ing all opposition in the Held, and reducing thekingdom to a state of final and permanent sub¬jection. Robert, knowing that a battle must in¬evitably take place in the neighbourhood of Stir¬ling, gave orders that his forces should assembleat the Torwood, between Stirling and Falkirk.The English army amounted to more than100,000 men, quite confident of victory, and on¬ly anticipating the spoil they had in prospect.The army of Robert scarcely amounted to 30,000,but it consisted of soldiers inured to war and hard¬ship, and burning with zeal and patriotic ardour.Besides this army there was a tumultuary andundisciplined rabble, who, as was the custom inthose days, followed the camp. These on thisoccasion, as the sequel showed, were of essentialservice in the battle that enused.Robert, who was no less skilful than brave,took up his position with the greatest judgment.He had the small rivulet of Bannockburn on theright, and Stirling, at the distance of nearly twomiles, on the left. He was deficient in cavalry ;but the banks of the rivulet being in many pla-ijl ces steep and rugged, and the ground between itI and Stirling partly covered with wood, he wasIi thus protected from the assault of the Englishi horse. And still more to render this part of theirforce of little avail, he caused a number of pits to; be dug in every part of the field where cavalryIt could act. Into these spikes and stakes wrereS driven, and the whole carefully concealed by acovering of turf and patches of brushwood.(On the 23d of June, it was known that theEnglish were approaching; when Robert, havingresolved that his troops should fight on foot, drewthem up in three lines, having previously givenI his nephew, Randolph, strong orders to preventthe enemy from throwing succours into Stirling.Rut 800 horsemen, commanded by Sir RobertClifford, rode by a long sw'eep round, and wererapidly approaching the castle when Robert des¬cried them. Riding up to Randolph, he criedout with much vehemence and indignation,“ Thoughtless man, you have allowed the ene¬my to pass 1” Randolph instantly perceived thejustness of his uncle’s rebuke, but had scarcelyi time to draw up his troops, which he did in acir-tt cular form, with their spears presented, when heofound himself completely surrounded. His friendCj .Douglas saw his danger, and requested the king’sa permission to go to his assistance. “ You shall•mot move from your ground,” cried the king.20“ Let Randolph get out of the danger as he bestmay. I will not alter my order of battle, andlose the advantage of my position.”—“ I cannotstand by,” replied Douglas, “ and see Randolphperish ; with your leave I must aid him,” The ,king very unwillingly consented, and Douglasflew to the rescue of his friend. On drawingnear, however, he observed that the English werefalling into disorder, when he instantly command¬ed a halt. “ Those brave men,” said he, “ havealready repulsed the enemy ; let us not lessentheir glory by seeming to share it,”—a sentimentwhich showed how generous was the characterof this steadfast friend.Soon after this the advanced guard of the Eng¬lish appeared, Robert was then in front of hisarmy with a battle-axe in his hand and a crownabove his helmet. Espying him in this guise,an English knight, named Henry de Bohun,equipped in complete armour, rode forward toattack him. The combat was of short duration.With one blow of his battle-axe Robert cleft therskull of his adversary, and laid him dead at hisfeet. The English hastily fell back, and theScots, exulting in the prowess of their king, re¬garded this encounter as a presage of immediatevictory.Darkness beginning to set in, farther hostilities Iwere for the present suspended. The night was j' spent by the English in feasting and riot, whilethe Soots passed the intervening hours in watch-; fulness and devotion.At break of day, Edward drew out his army,hi and rushed on to the attack. The ground wasi so awkwardly hemmed in for the advance of the1 English, that they had no room to expand theiri't columns, and when they came in contact withIij the Scottish front, they were united in one densetfj mass.On an eminence was seen the Abbot of Inchaf-)| fray, a venerable priest, celebrating mass in frontid of the Scottish army. As he passed along theil: front, barefooted, with a crucifix in his hand, and9i exhorted the Scots to fight bravely for their coun-? try, their liberty, and their lives, the whole army■I kneeled down, and implored the blessing of the| God of Battles. “ They yield !” cried Edward.1 “ See I they implore mercy.”—“ They implorenot ours,” said De Umfraville, one of his gener-i3 als; “ on that field they will be victorious ori die.”The combat was obstinate and bloody. Rob-i ert, perceiving his troops were much galled byi the English archers, ordered Sir Robert Keith,with a small but resolute band of horse, to makeI a circuit and attack them in flank. The chargewas so impetuous that the archers instantly gaveway, and threw a part of the English army intothe greatest disorder. At this critical moment,Robert rushed forward with a body he had held*in reserve. The young Earl of Gloucester,nephew of the English king, attempted to bringback the flying English to the charge, but fellamong the pits prepared for the cavalry, and wasdismounted and slain.While the disorder was thickening among theEnglish ranks, their consternation was augment¬ed by the appearance of a second Scottish army,which seemed to be advancing along the edge ofa hill, as if fox the purpose of cutting off their re¬treat. This was the band of idle attendants be¬fore noticed, and whom Bruce had provided withmilitary standards and other equipments, so as togive them the semblance of an army. Panic-struck by this unlooked for and unwelcome ap¬pearance, the English fled in dismay. Many of'them crowded to seek shelter among the rocksin the neighbourhood of Stirling Castle, andgreat numbers were drowned in attempting tocross the Forth.Edward was attended during the battle byAymer de Valence, Earl of Pembroke, and SirGiles d’Argentine, a brave knight, who had high¬ly distinguished himself in the wars of the Cru¬sades. Pembroke, seeing that the battle was ir¬retrievably lost, forced Edward of the field, whofled to Linlithgow without halting; the gates of23Which he had scarcely entered, when he founduimself pursued by a band of the Scots, whojvere close at his heels. These were Sir JamesiDouglas with sixty horsemen. He immediatelynounted his horse, and allowed himself not aipoment’s rest till he had reached Dunbar, whereie was received by the Earl of March, who con-eyed him by sea to England.Such was the great and decisive battle of Ban-ockburn. Robert Bruce gained great honour byis humane treatment of the captives, many ofhom he released without ransom. In return fore Earl of Hereford he received his queen andiiaughter, the Bishop of Glasgow, and the youngifiarl of Mar; and large sums were paid by theEnglish for the ransom of other captives, whichsreatly enriched the coffers of the kingdom,jl Some years afterwards the English king wasompelled by his subjects to resign his power toas son, Edward the Third, then a boy aboutiffteen years of age. This young man, was be¬ginning to meditate an attack upon Scotland,fhen Robert, became acquainted with his design,psolved to be before-hand with him. He orderedlandolph and Douglas to march into England,nd lay waste the northern counties. In thelean time Edward put himself at the head of hismy, and crossed the Tweed, laid siege to Ber-ick; but all his efforts failed although he com-nianded a force which enabled him completely toinvest it from the river Tweed to the sea. Forsix days the English were employed in erectingdikes and mounds against the wall, for the pur-1pose of fixing their ladders, and carrying thd|fortifications by storm, which, after being com-4pleted they made a simultaneous assault both by]sea and land. But the Scots brought forwardanother machine, armed with a huge mass of rock, iwhich being discharged against the sow, a tre-dmendous crash, mingled with the shrieks of thevictims and the shouts of the soldiers on the wall, ideclared the success of the besieged. The Eng-ilish now withdrew.Randolph, and the brave Lord Douglas dis¬tinguished by their gallant exploits, now becamethe assailants, and entered England with an ar¬my of 20,000 horsemen. King Edward led anarmy of 30,000 men, who assembled at Durham.|The two armies continued in sight of each otherfor two days, but victory crowned the efforts ofthe Scots.The Scots afterwards mantained there inde¬pence, and remained comparitively at peace, andiKing Robert Bruce resolved that at the head of:an army to undertake an expidition to the HolyLand, to make religious atonement, but was taken:ill and died in the year 1329. at the age of 55.^FINIS.