THER E M A R K ABLEIII S T O R YOF THEMiser of Berkshire:JOHN EL WES, ESQ;•member of three successive parlia¬ments FOR THAT COUNTY.With Singular Aneccktes, &c.Supposed to be tte greatest instance of Penurythat ever existed,—h -H- +-r -H- -H- -M- -Hf *f+ *H* ++ -f-f -f-f H-f *H- ++ *}■+ -t—WRITTEN BYCAPTAIN TOPHAM.-4--H--l-f-H;++-^ +4++-H-+++++++++++++-r-f—A M'ncr is an Enerny to Mankind ; for bow can be feelfor others. h.'bo is ever cruci to himself? His breastis steeled against Humanity: His Heart knowsi.o Mirth ; nor q- c-s the Hear of Sensibilitybedew his Cheek. Geld, that's a Blessingto others, to him doth prove a Curse:Care torments him, and he ‘has no Comforter^ o’kee.ffe.• ’»*******************Tt1 7TFALKIRKPRINTED AND SOLD BY T. JOHNSTON.l8lO.THEH 1 S T 0 R rOFJOHN EL WES, ESQ.^IS^EGGOT was rhe f;mily mme of Mr. Elwes;sod h'.s name' bei ^ John, the curjunflion of JtckMeg^ot induced strangers tp imagine sometimesthat his friends were adJrssi ‘g him by an assamedappellation. The father of Mr. Elwes was aneminent bre we ; and his dwrl :ng-heu e and officeswere situated n S ath-w. rlt; whwh borough wasforme* y r p esented in par iament by his grand-faihrr, £>.r George i\h ggot Duting his life, hepurchased the estate now in pi ssessicnof the familyof the Calverts, at Marc ram, in Be.kshire.The father died when the larc Mr. Elwes wasonly 4 ye ars old so that little of the singular cha-rafter of M- Elwes“is to be arTibmed to him: butfro n the mbtber if may be traced with ease : She*was left nerr'y one hundred tri utand pounds byher husband, and yet starved herself to death !The only children from 'he above marriage,were Mr. Elwes, and a 'daughter, who married( 3 )the father of the late Coione] Timms; anti fromthence came the intail of jome part of his estate.Mr. Elwf.s, at an early period of life, v/as sentto Westminster School, where he remained ten ortwelve years. He certainly during that time, hadnot misapplied his talents; for he was a good classi¬cal scholar to the last; and it is a circumstance veryremarkable, yet well authenticated, that he neverread afterwards. Never, at ary period of his futurelife, was he seen with a Look; nor had he, in allh.s d fferen: houses, left behind him two poundsworth of literary furniture. His knowledge in*ac:oun:s was little ; and, in some measure, mayaccount for his total ignorance as to his own con¬cerns. The conternpo. aries of Mr. Elwts, atWestminster, w(*e Mr Wort'cy, late Master ofthe Board of Works, and the late Lord Man field;wiso, at that time, borrowed all that young Elweswould lend. H.s Lord.hip, however, afterwardschanged his disposition.Mr Elwfs from Wes1 mmsrrr-School removedto Geneva, where he shortly after entered uponpu. suns more congenial to his temper than study.The riding m^’er of the academy had then 'hreeof the best horsemen in Europe for his pup .s; viz.Mr, Worsley Mr Elwes, and S r Sidney Meadows.ELves of the Live was accounted the most despe¬rate: the young ho; ses were put into his h*nds al¬ways ; and he was, in fad the rough-ndtt ot theother two He was introduced, dut mg hts period,to Voltaire, whom, in point of appearance, he some-what resembled; but tir ugh he has often mentionedthis circumstance, neither the geniusj the fortune,nor the charrcter, of Voltaire, ever seemed to fti ikehim as worthy of envy. -Returning to England, after an absence of twoor thtce year0, he was tube introduced to his ancle,the late Sir Hi-vey Etw'es, who was then livingat Stoke, in Suffolk, the most perfect pfture ofhuman pernn-y perhaps that ever cxittid. In-himthe attempts i 1 savit g money Were So extraordinary,that Mr. Elwes nev-r quite reached them, even atthe rhost covetou period of ,us life.! ^Vo this S • Hurvet Ei - es he was to be heir, .«and of course it wa« pol.cy t. p'case him. On thl^ .acccuu: it was n- c. uy even m, o.d hit. Eiv.cs,to av: tquerade luiTe ; '-and as he was a: that timein the world and it aff: rs, he dressed like otherpe0p;c. Tins wolih u. - have done for Sir Harvey.. “Th nephew, hes . fore used tu step at a Ett’e innat Cheim. tord, and begin to dress in churafter.—\ p. rr of sn.ail iion buckles, worsted stockingsdarned, a wci n out * Id coat, and a i^.t^reu wmst-coat were pu: on ) and forwards he rode to visit. •his uncle; who used to contemplate him witha kind of mi'erable satu-idciicn. and seemed pleasedto find his heir bidding fair o rival bi n in the un¬accountable pursuit of avarice. T-r ere they wouldsit—saving souls! — with a single stick upon thefire, and with one glass of wine, rcca'ionally, be-twixt them, inveigh ng ay i'nst the extravaganceof the rffties.} ana when evening shat in, they wouldinujctfiste!)' reti, e to re?.:, as gohig to bed sjrc lcandle-light.— I he nephew, however, had chiuwhat, indeed, he never lest—a very extraordinaryappetite — and this would have been an unpardon¬able off.nce in.the <ye of Ids unsle » M . hlweswas therefore obliged to part-ice of a dinner ftrsf,with some country neighbour, and then returnto his utrie with a little diminutive appetite, thatquite engaged the heart of the old gentleman.A partridge, a small pud ling, and tone potaio-% didthe whole business! and the tire was even sufferedto d e away while Sir Harvey was at dinner, aseating was a sufficient exercise.tSir Harvey, in truth, was a mn:t singular eba-.jzficr, and the way in which he lived was no less so.Ki-s ceclus'On from the world nearly reached tintcf an hermit.- and, extreme avarice excepted,a more blamelts life was never led by mortal.SKETCH OF S.ll HARVEY ELWES.*Sir Harvey ElavT-s succeeded S'r Jervaise,a very worthy gentleman, wito had involved, asfar as t,hsy would go, ail the estates he received,and left behind him.—Sir Hervey, on bis death,found himself possessed nominally of some thous¬ands a-year, but really with an income of onehundred pounds per annum.—On his arrival atStoke-, the family seat, he said, “ that never wouldhe '.pave it tjll he had entirely cleared the paternalestate.’7—This he not only accompli.hed, but, be-( 6 )live:? to real's* a'oove ore hundred thousandpounds. — In youth ha had been given over for aron.'umptioii, ■'so tint he had no constimnt n, »ndho passions —lie was tim'd, shy, and diffident inthe exTcnie: of a thin spare habit of body, andiv th ur a friend upon earth—The hoarding upaid the counting His money formed the greatest joy.Next to that was partridge-setting; at which heVvas so great an adept, and game'was then so plen¬tiful, that he has been known to take five hundredbrace of birds in one season ! — But he lived uponpartridges, he and his whole household, consis ingof one man and two maids. — What they cou’dnot eat, he turned loose again, as he never g veany thing away to his neighbours —S r Harveyand his man never missed a day, dm ing the part-ndge season, if the weather was tolerable-; andla's breed oi dogs being remarkably good, he seldomfailed taking gteat quantities of game.At all times he wore a black velvet cap muchover l.is face; a worn-out full.dressed suit of deaths,and an old great coat, w ith worsted stockings draanup over his knees —Pie retie a thin thorough-bredhorse, end the horse and h s rider both looked as ifa gu t of wind would have blown them away to¬gether — Wh n ;he weather was no: fine enoughto tempt him abroad, he would walk backwardsand forwards in his old hall,- to save the expenseof fire.— If a farmer in his neighbourhood came incm budnes', he would strike a light in a tinder-boxthat he kept by him, and putting one single.stick( 7 )npin the gra’f, wculJ not adJ another until :‘.efirs* was nearly consuTied —Having li tie confiec-t^on with London, he gencrr.il had three nr fourthousand pwuds. at a itne in his house — A tet offellows, who were after .'ards known hy ttie ap¬pellation of the Fhaxted Gang, (and who wereaf'erwards all hung ) formed a plan to rob him-—-They were totally unsuspected at that time, eachhaving some apparent occupation during the day,and went out only, at night, upon good intelligence.It was Sr Harvey’s custom to retire to his bed¬chamber at e:ght oVock r where, after takinga bason of water-gru 1, by the light of a small fire,he went to bed, to sive the unnecessary extrava-g?n:e of a candle.—. ‘'he gang, who perfectly knewthe hour.when his fervan: went to,lhe ftable, leav¬ing tha r horfes in a ftuall gr^ve bn the Eilex fideof the river, walked across, and hid themfelves iuthe church p rch till they faw the man come upto his h -rfes, when theyimmcdiately fell t p.n him,snd, after fome little ftruggle, bound and gaggedhim ; rati up towards the h ufe, tied the two maidstogether, and going up to Sir Harvey, presentedtheir p .”o's. and sternly demanded hi> money.—N ver did Sic Harv.y behave fo well as hi thistranLch m: When Hie vil'uins aftttd for his money,he would give them noanfwer till they had affiredhim that his ferv/nf, a great favourite, Was Safe.He then delivered them the. key of a draw: r, inwhxh was fifty guineas: But. tliey wel^ knew hehad much "more in the houie, and again threatentifhis life, without he difeovered where it was (lt ;>i-fned. — .At krm’h ..e reuftavnly lire wed them the< M. I'!»7 'iirnfd out i large «?r«wer, \vr.hhKttainec! twenty-seven hurHrqjfl guineas! — This• ey p.-cV-’tl_»!{>- ir« two large br.&cts, and stlaally4-.rr.:eil off! A rot bsry which, for qasaiity of fpecie,•.va- • r •-••ps never ecj ia'Scd. —They toki h;m be- , jfv.rg r.hcv went off, that they ihoo'd leave a manb-h: •.!, who would ■ murder him if he even ftirredfor aSiusnce —On which he very coaly, and, indeed,vrUh foute hmplici'y, took out his watch, which they; 3b no- aflc-:d'hitii for, anti faid, Gentlemen, I do net■ to . ike any'a-.ivantage cf you ; therefore, upon,r.v hv.ri or, I will g:Vf- you .twenty minutes for yournc : After that time, nothing-fhal! prevent men n feeing my fervam. He was ttnftly as good; s his word; when the time expired, he went and,-icd the man. — Tho’ fet-rch was made by theait.e of .he vitiage, the robbers were ret difeo.. d —And when they were apprehended, foius• :rs •“-fierwJsrds for oth r offences, and were known,■ be the Aim who had tobl.td Sir Harvey, heid not appenr-againit them :—No, no, faid. he,> nave loft my money; l will not lefe my time alfb.> that however culpable he may be coniideredfcore of penury, he may-certainly h# acquit-• f.'i of rite p. ffijn of revenge.Of hat temperance can effect, Sir Harvey wassn » iVi-cce: At an early period of life, he wase vsr for a con.’uuipriou ; and he lived tillL\:tv. int eighty and niiuty years of age.An" gfl the ftyv acquaintances he had (and.,e. „ few imilccdj aq^xcasional dub held‘at his own village of Stoke ; ant! there were mem¬ber i of it two B ironeti, beG les iiimfeif, Sir Ccrd-well Fii'^-brafs/ and Sir John 1>irnarai Hon. — The.reckoning to thcfc congenial fouls was always ;.nobject of iavieftigatton. — Xs they were one dayfettling this .1 ffitulc point, an odd fellow, who wasa member called our to a friend that was pa (ling.For Heaven's i’-ke’. :bp upftairsy-and allld die poor!line are three Baronets,Worth,:* mUlrcnof money,q nrrelling'about a farthing ! aAfter Sir H.rxev’s dearth, the only tear dr. .Tiedupon hi grave, felt from the eye of Ivs fervaot,who had long and faithfully at-.tnddJ him. — Tothat fervant he bequeathed a farm of 50!. perannum, to him and to his heirs.In the ebaitity and abflinence of 'hu life.Sir Harvey Elwes w-.s a nvai to atr naac Newton,W he watild have held i: unpardonable to havegiven—even his ./T-cbonv; and,,as he law no ladywhatever, he h d bat hit e chance of barteringuutrur.onially for inon:y.When he died, he lay in fiate, fuck as it was,at his feat atStuke.—Some of the tenayus obferved,with more humdur than dtesref, That it was wellS r Harry could not fee it —His fortune, which h- dbecome tmmenfe, • fell t<j Ivs nephew Mr. Meggot,who, by will, v/as ordered to eflj.me the name andarms of EUves. — Thus lived, and thus cied, thauncle of old Mr El wes, v. hofc poflefiiona, at thetime of his death, were fuppofed to be st ieaft twohundred and fifty thcuuiad pounds ; and whole( 1° )annml fxppri37*ur^r w viabout one hundred andten p ir s!— f ho* v bbery before mentionectprobably did nor accelerate his death, yet it l..yheavy on his fpints; but more particularly whenempxyed in the delightful t;,Jk of counting his gel .However incredible :hit may appear, yet it is ftri&lytrue, that hts deaths cost iiim nothing, for he toutthem out of an old chuf, where they bad lain Oncethe gay days of Sir Jervaife. — He kept his houfe-hold ciiiefiy upon game, and iilh trom his own pand.7'he cows, whicn gr.tzrd before his own door,furnifhed miik, cheife, and butter, for his littleoe .'onomical houfchold ; and v/har fuel he did barn,his woods fuppiie'd — To thefe who cannot exilfout of the buitie of fociety, and the fever of pubi cfeene*, ‘it may be curious to know, that he wa$a man who bad .lie courage to live, as it were,nearly feventy years alone !To the who’e of his uncle’s property Mr El wesSucceeded; arid it was imagined, diat his own wasnot at the time very inferior —He got, too, an ad¬ditional seat; but he got it, as it had been, mostre^giously delivered down for ages pa^t.-i- 1 ::efurnitur* was most sacredly anrq le !—Not a roomwas painted, nor a window repaired ! — The bedsabove stairs, were all in canopy and state; wherethe worms and moths held undisturbed posses ion IMr. Elvves h d now' advanced beyond the40th year of his age ; and for 15 year- previousto this per.od it was that he wsi known ih all thefaibionahle circles of London — He h.,d always* turn for play; and it was only late in hie, and( 11 )from paying always, and not always being paidthat he conceived disgust at the inclination.The acquaintances when he had formed atWestminsrer School, and at Geneva, together withhis own Wge fortune, ah conspired to introducehirn inro whatever society he liked best — He wasadmitttd*a member of ihe club at Arthur’s, andvarious other clubs of that period — And as someproof ofdais not iriety at cnat time as a man of deepplay, Mr. E!wes, the la e L rd Hubert Bertie, andiome others, are noticed in a seme in the A '.ven¬tures of a Guinea, for the frequency of their mid¬night orgies. — Few men, even from his ownacknowledgment, had played deeper than himdf>and with success mure various. — He once playedtwo days and a ivght w.houc interim*sion; andthe room being a small one, tne party were nearlyup to the knees in cards.— lie lost home thoufandsat that fitting.—The late D ike of Normurnbsrland,who would never quit a table where-any hopewinning (remained, was of the pany.After fitiing up a whole night a,tpby, for thou-finds with the riiafl fadiionable and pfoflig ue menof the time, anddft folendid rooms, gilt fuphas,wax lights, and waiters a te.|d^in.pn his call, hjwould walk cut about four in toe morn ng, nottowaids home/but iiro Smithneld, to meet hiscattle, which were coming to market, from Fhsy-don liall, a farm of his in tlffex : There wouldthis lams man, forge; ful of the feenes he hud juft left,(land in the C'-ld or rain, bartering with a carcafe-t( )butcher for a'(hiring. — Sometime: he would walkon in the. mire to meet them; and morethan orcohe has gone on foot the whole way to Ids farm,without {topping, which was 17 miles from London,after fitting up the whole right ! Had every manbeen ol the mind of Mr. Eiwes, the race of Inn¬keepers .mutKuve petiihed, and pod thuds havebeen turnrd back to thofe who made them ; for it•>vas the bulitieia of his hie to avoid both !He al ways travelled on horfe-batk —To fee himJ 1 • f ‘fetting out on a journey was.a muter trmy cu: tons •His' frit care was to put two or three eggs, boiledhard, into his great coat pocket, or any feraps ofbread which he found. — His next attention was,to get out of London into that real where theturnpikes were the fewefi j then (topping underany hedge, where grafs prefer,ted itfelffor his horfe,and a little water for hi niff If. he would f:t' - ynand refrsfn nimfelf and his horfe together lAn inn upon the read, and an apothecary's bill,were equal objc&s of averfion to Mr. Elwes. The words Give and Pay, were not found in hisvccabu ary ; and therefiue, when he- mice receiveda very dangerous (tick from one of his horfes, whofell in going over a leap, none could psrfuade himto have any ailidance —He rode the.chafe thn.tigh,with his leg cut to the bone ! and it was only somedays afterwards, when 1: was feared an amputationwould be neceflary, that he contented to go up toLondon, anti, da'tnal day I part with tome of hism^ney for advice.( '3 )One day he put .us tided. boy upen a ladder,to get fnne grapes for the tsble, when, by theladder flipping, be fell down, and hurt his fide :The boy had the precunion to go to a Surgeonand get blooded : On his return, Hrs father afk dwhere he had been, and what was the matter withhis arm ? He told him that he had got bled —Bled! bled! faid the old gentleman : But what didyou give? A fu fling, antwered the boy.—Pihaw!returned the father, you are a blockhead ! Neverp;rt with your blood and money together.In the .penury of Mr. Elwes, there was forne-tbng that feemed like a judgment from heaven!for'all earthly comforts he voluntarily denied hhnfelfHe would walk home in the rain in London, ratherthan pay a llhlling for a coach—He would fit withwet cloaths, rather than be at the expence cf a fire1 ^ • c ^ tT » r-* t T-Ci ^ TflClf®' t iO »» WOT fc J.S A V/ V «A A W14BAA A14Clad ftage cf putrtfsdion, rather than be at the cx-pence of purcliafing a frelh joint from the butcher.And tie were a w g for above a fortnight, whichhe picked up out cf a rut in a lann.— This was thea t extremity of laudable ethorny ! fur, to allappear nee, it was the caft-off w:g cf fo ne beggar!The day in which he firft appeared in tin's priiamen-tsi drefs, exceeded ail the power of farce ! for hehad tern a brown coat, which he generally wore,and had thertfut been obliged to have recoun'eto the old theft of Sir j; i vaile, from whence hehid tefefted a full dullrd green velvet coat, withflathed flicves; and there he fat at dinner in boots,the afore laid greed velvet teat, his el. n* white hair<i♦ ( 14 )•appearing round his fjce, and this black flray wigat >he top of ail!One dirk night Mr. Ehves, hurrying along,went with fuch violence again!! the pole of a ledanchair that he cut both his legs very deep'y ! Asufual he thought not of any ailidance; but ColonelTimms, at whofe houfe he then was, in OrchardStre t, infilled upon calling a dot! r : He at lengthfuqmitted and an apothecary in confequence at¬tended ; who immediately began to expatiate onthe bad confeq iences of breaking the 1km ; thegood fortune of'his being fent for; and the peculiarbad appearance of Mr. Elwes's wound.—Veryprobably, faid Mr. Elwes —But, Mr.—t—, 1 haveone thing to fay to you :—In my opinion, my l;gsare not much hurt: Now, you think they are.—So I will make this agreement; I will icks one leg,and you Hull take the other; you lhall do what youpleafe with your’s, and I will do nothing to mine;And I will wag«r your bill, that my kg gets wellbefofe your’s.— He exultingly beat the apothecaryby a fortnight!The rooms of his feat at Stoke, that were nowmuch out of repair, and won d have all fallen in,but for his fon; J )hn E'wcs, Efq, who had refriedthere, he thou^nt too (xpenfivt y furn (lied, andthat worfe things might have done — If a windoww^s broken, there was no rep ir but that of a Irtlebrown pap^r, or that i f piecing in a b t of brokenglafs, which had, at length, been done k> frequently,and in fa many flu- es. that it w^tiui .have puzs sd( i5 )a mathematician to fay what figure they defcribed!To fave fire, he would walk about the remains ofan old green-houfe, or fie with a fervant in theki'chen. — During the harvefi, he would amufehimfelf with going into the fields to glean the cornon the grounds of his own tenants; and they ufedto leave a little more than common, to plifctrfe theold gentleman, who was as eager after it as anypauper in the pafifh —In the advance of thefeafon,his morning employment was to p:ck up any ftraychips, bones, or other things, to carry to the fire,in his pocket; and he was one day furprifed bya neighbouring gentleman in the aft of pulling downa crow’s mft tor this purpofe! On the gentlemanexprtfli.ig his furprife why he gave himfclf thattrouble, Oh, Sir, replied he, it is really a (hamethat thefe cre/tures fhould be allowed to do fo.Do but fee wiat wafte they mak"!He flill rode about the country on one of hismares; and always kept her on the fbft turf ad¬joining the-road, to fave the expenfe of Ihocs;and, he faid, the turf was mofl p’eafant for l:er foot!And when any gentleman call d to pay him a vifit,and the boy, who attended in the tables, was pro¬fuse enough to put, a little hay before his horfe,old ETwes would Any Ileal back into, the (table, sud t. ke away the hay very carefully.To Tave th0 cxponce of going to a butcher,he w^uld have a whole ■Iheep k.lhd am! (b elltnuitmn to the end of the chapter. — When he oc-cabonuiiy had his canal drawn, though fometimes( 16 )hpi fe-JoatJs of filh were taken, not one wou'dhe uifl’;r to be thrown in a^aio, for he obferved,he Ihon d never l‘:e them more!—Game in thelad date of putref. tTfion, snd ^nn’at that walkedabout hh pbr::,' would he continue to eat, ratherthan have t:,e v ;hi .ns kil ed before tlie old provifionwas oilyulfcd !— vV nh his diet, his drefs kept pace,equally in the lad of .ibfplute diffolunon! —Sometimes ha would walk about with a tatteredbrown coloured hat; asul fometirhes with a whitejnd red woollen c^p!When any friends, w’ho might occaft maliy bewith him, were absent, he wou d carefully put outhis own tire, and wdk to the houfe cf a i eighbour;and thus make one fire ferve both. — His times henever would fnffir to be cleaned, left they flicnidbe vyprn .out the fooner.—But ftill, with all dhsfclf-tlenia^ trotterr.t nim'eir ever rrofn’e • anufrequently fiid, he mud b: a lit le more careful ofhis property. — When he went to bed, he wouldput five or ten guineas into a bereau, and then,full of his money, after he h’.d ret red to rcli, i'ov.e-times in the middle cf the night, i.e would comedown to tee if irwas fate. •— 1 he 'mtation cf n smind was tlnceafing! — He tncoghe every body ex¬travagant; and when a per ion was ts’U'r.g to himore day of the great v'-aish of die Mr. jemungs,is fiipp .fed to Be worth a nr.'.bon'-, ar.d ’-h.ithad feen-him that day hi a new cair agf;aye, laid old £lw«, he'will fjcn fee :i;e endof his money!(whothjyAve,( 17 )Mr. Ehves Jeriied himfelf every ining, fr:.'?ptthe common necenariesoflife; and, indeed.have been admitted doubtful, whether or nor, if hismanors, hit f;!h ponds, and grounds in his own hands,had not ftVni'hed a fabfiftenoe, where he had netany thing aftua'dy to bw. he would not, rather thanhave bought any thing, have ftarved 1He one day d'ned upon the remaining part ofa moor hen, which had been brought out of theriver hy a rar! — At another time, he eat arj undi-grtied part of a p:ke. which a larger one had fwal-lowrd, but h-d nc* iinilhed, and which was takenin this {late in a yet! — At the time this lad circum-ftance happened, he difcovered a Orange kind offatisfaclkm ; for he laid to Captain Topham, whohappened to be prefent, Aye! thb is killing twobirds with one {tone! Mr. El we s, at this time,was perhaps worth nearly 8co,oool. and at thisperiod he had not made his Wlh of ccurfe, was notCaving from any fentiment of aft’ ction for any perfen.. His thoughts uuceafingly ran upon money ! money fmoney 1 — and he favv nnw no ore but whom ftsimagined w^s deceiviug. and defrauding him !As, in the day, he would not allow himfelf anyfr e. he went to bed asToori..as day doled, to favecandle; and had begun to deny himfeif even thepleafut esef Ibep ng m (lieets — In fhort, he had nownearly brought toa climax the rn ’ral of hit whole life,the perfect vanity of wealth, without ufing it. iOn ^etnovii g frrrn Stoke, he went to his farm-heufe at Thaydon-Hall; a fccnc of mere ruin atd( i3 )desolation, if poffihle, than either cf hshoiifes. inSufF lk or Berkshire —It itocd alone, on the bordersof Epping Forert ; and an old man and woman, histenants, vvere the only pet Tons with whom he couldhold any converfe. — Here he fell ill; and as hewould h»ve no alTiIlance, and had not even a fervant,he lay unattended, and almoft forgotten, for nearlya fortnight; indulging, even m death, that avaricewhich malady c uld not (undue. —It was at thisperiod he began to think t f nlak'ng his will; feting,perhaps, that his Tons would not be entitled by law,to any part of his property, fliould lie die intellate :and. on coming to London, he made hi !a(t dviiland refiamcnr.—The following is an attefted copy.THE \\V I L LOF THE LATE JOHN ELV/ES FSQ_Ex'.raclcd from the Registry of the Prerogative Courtcf Cqnterburj .In the name of-God, An-en. — I. John Elwes,of Stoke, in the county of Suftoik, Efqure do makeand dec'a re this Writing to be my Lift Will andTtftanient, in manner fi liowir g: t'hnt is to fay),in the hril phee, 1 dir, Ct tha't all my juft debts,funeral and teliamenta'y experces, be paid as Lonas conveniently may be after my dtcc-afe. — And1 do gtva, ejevife, and bequeath, all and tv\ry myreal fibres, me(Tuages or tenements, Lntjs, buds,tythes, and hereditaments, (ifuate, (landing, lywig,( )an:! being in the feverai parifhes or places of Stckt^Thaydon, ar.d Marcham, in the counties of Suffolk,EflTex, and Berks, with all and every the barns,ftabh s cut-houfes, buildings, and appurtenancesthereunto belonging; and all oth(sr my real edateswhatfoever, anti wherefotver landing,lyii g,or being, with their and every of their tights, mem¬bers, ar.d appur enancss; and alfoa'I and every rnyperfonal eltate, goods, chattels, and cffc&s whatso.ever, and of what nature, kind or quality soever,or wheresoever the same may he, unto my son,George EKves, no.v living and residing at mymansion-house at Marcham, in the county of Berks,and my son, John Elwes, late a Lieutenant in hisMij'sty’s Second Troop of Horse.Guard*, andusually rending it my mansion-home at Stoke, inthe county of Suffolk, t qually to be divided betweentheir,, share and share a! ke ; to have and to holdall at d every my said real and personal estateswhatsoever and wheresoever, with the rights, pri¬vileges, and- appurtenances thereun'p belonging orappertaining unto them my said sons, George Elw. sand John Elwes, and their heirs, executors, admi¬nistrators, and assigns, for evermore, equally to bedivided between them as tenants in common. Andi heieby duecd, that the txecutors of this my will,do and shall, as soon as conveniently may be aftermy death, p-v all and every such legacies or .be¬quests as 1 ut»y think ht to rive to any personwhomsot ver; by ai y codtlcil, or paper-wtrting inthe nature of a codocil, or testamentary schedulde,to he written or sigved by me, whether the sameshall or shall not be attested by any subscribing( 20 )witnesses. — And I do nominate, constitute, andappoint my said sons, George Eiwes, executorsof this my last will and testament; and herebyrevoking ail former wills by me at any lime here¬tofore made, do make and declare this writing onlys> and for my last will and tes’amet». — In witnesswhereof, I, the said John Elwe’s, have to this writ¬ing, contained in two beets of paper, which I de¬clare as and for my last will and testament, set myhand and seal, (chat is to say.) my hand to eachof the said sheets, and- my hand and seal to thislast sheet, and to the label by which t^ey are affixedtogether, the 'ixth day of August, one thousand,,seven hundred, and eighty-fix.John Elwf.s.'Signed, sealed, published, and declared, bythe said John Elwes, as and for his last.willand testament, in the p esence of us, who,in his presenefe, ar.d in the presence of e^clt•other, and at his reouest, have subscribedour names, as witnesses to the executionthereof.TtLix Buckley;Edward Topham.'1 iiomas Ingram A.\r.The property here disposed of, may amount,perhaps, to five hundred thousand pounds! I heentailed c-tates f i! to Mr. Timms, son of the lats*Richard Timms, Lieutenant Colonel of the bccondTroon of Horse Guards. *( 21 )The sons named by Mr. Eijves in the will above,were -his natural children, by El.zaberh Moren,•formerly his house-ket per at Marchun in Berkshire.Mr. Elwes, shortly after executing his will,gave, by letter of attorney, the power of managing,receiving, and paying all his monies, into the handsof Mr. Ingraham, his lawyer, and his youngest ton,John El wes, Esq; who had lx.en his chief agents.Nor was the aft by any means improper.—The lapses of his memory had now become fre¬quent and £'ring —Ail recent occurrences lie' forgot entirely; and as he never committed anything to wining, the confusion he made was inex-pressib’e! — As an instance of this, the followinganecdote miv serve : — He had one evening givena draft on M ssrs Brc-res hi hankers, for ttvtmtypHinds ; ai d having takeit into his head, duringthe nigh , that lie hid over-drawn his account,his anxiety was unceasing ! —hie left his bed, andwalkirm about his room with that little feverish •irritation that always distinguished him, waitedwith me unmisr impatience till morning came,when, on going to his'banker with an apologyfor the great linerty,he had tiken he was assuredthere wal no ccoston for his apology, as he hap¬pened to have i their hands, at thaftimc, the smallsum of founeen thousand even hundred pouhds!However su gub* tlus aft of forgetfulness maysppe • •; rvc s 10 maik am dst all his anxietyabout money, that ex’re me conscientiousness which( 22 )was to the honour of his character. — If ?ccnfcntplaced him in debt to any person; even in ihe mosttrivial monner, he was never easy till it was paid :And it should be noted, that never was he known,on any occasion, to fail in what he said.— Of thepun&uality of his word, he was so scrupulous’/tenacious, that no person ever ren tested bettersecurity; and he was so particular in every thingofproryse, that in any appointment or meeting,or the hour of It, he exceeded military exactness.Mr E'.wes passed the summer of 1788 at hishouse in Welbeck Street, London, without anyother society than that of two maid-servants; forhe had now given up the expence of keeping anymale domestic — His chief employment med to bethat of getting up early in the morning to visithis houses ia Mary bone, which during the summerwere repairing — As lie was there generally byfour o’clock in the morning, he was of course onthe spot before the workmen; and he used con¬tentedly to sit down on the steps before the door,to scold them when they did come — I he neigh¬bours, who u ed to see him apprar thus regularlyevery morning, and who conduced, from his ap.parel, he was one of the workmen, observed,th?re never was so pundual a man as the old car.penter —During the whole morning he would con.tiane r run up and down stairs, to see the menwere n»t idle for an inilant. with the same anxietyas if his whole happiness in life had been centeredin v r fini hmg th't house regardless of the greaterproperty he had at stake in various places, and for( 23 )ever employed in the mirmtiae only' of sfiuirs —•Inde'd, futh was his anxie y ’about this house,the rent of which was not above fifty pounds a-yesr,that It brought on a feVer,1 which neaaly e >st himhis life —In the tmlwUlsr and unincumbered frameof Mr Elwes, titers was every thing that piomisedextreme length of life; and he lived to above 70years of age, without any nstural disorderOn the day before Mr Elwes took his gratuit¬ous journey into Berk-hire, he delivered to thelate Mr. Partis that copy of hi' last will and testa¬ment whic he himself had kept, to be carried toMessrs. Hoares, his bankers.Mr Elwes carried with him into Beik^hire,five guineas and an half, and half a crown. •— Lest! the mention of this sum nny appear singular, itshould be said, that, p.evious to his journey, he1 had carefully wrapped it np in various folds ofI PaPer> th81 no pat' of it might be lost.His very singular appetite Mr Elwcs retainedtill wuhin a lew days of his dissolution, and walked) on foot twelve milts but a fortnight before he dud.The first symptoms of more immediate decay,i' was his ina luy t trjoy his refl at night. He was1 frtquen ly heard at mulmght as if itruggling with1 fome one in his chainuer, and crying out, 1 willli keep my money, I will; nob oy lliall rob me of.1 my propei ry 1” — a y one 0f the family going1 into his room, he would Itarc from his fever ofC 24 )anxiety, and, as if waking from a troubled dream,again hurry into bed, and i’eeni unionfcieus of whathad happened, — Ac other times, when perfcftlyawake, he would walk to the fpot where he hadhidden his money, to fee if it was fafe.In the autumn of 1789, his memory was goneentirely ; his perception of things was decceafingvery rapidly ; and ?s the mind became unfettled,gufts of the mod violent paffion ufurped the p!?ceof fits former command of temper.—For (iv weeksprevious to his death, h t would go to rift in hisriuathes, as perftftiy drilled as during the day.—lie was one morning found fait aflt rp betwixt thethects, w ith his ilioes on his feet, his flick :n hishant),and an old torn ha: upon ins head !Mr. Er.ves, on the 18th of November, 1789,d f evered ligns of that utter and torsi weaknefs,which carried him to h s grave in eight days —On the evening of the firft day, he was or.vcyedto bed"; from w'hich he rofe ijn more —His appetitev.ar none •— He had but a faint r- ccIIecHon of anythi- g about him ; and hs la if coherent words " ereDdd.clTcd to his fon, Mr. John El wes, in hoping<< ^ad left him what he wifltedd'—On the morn¬ing- of the i6th of November he expired withouta figh !Thus died Mr E!wes, the mofl perfedl model'of human penury which has been prtfented to thepublic for a long feries of years.