WITTYANDENTERTAININGEXPLOITSOEGeorge Buchanan,COMMONLY CALLEDThe King’s Fool.MS SIX PARTS COMPLETE.PRINTED AND SOLD BY M. RANDALT »ill*IVUty and EntertainingEXPLOITSo»CEO RGB BUCHANNA£.Mr GEORGE BUCHANAN was a Scotsffiaubom, and though of moan parentage, madegreat progress in learning. As for his understandingand ready wit, he excelled all men then alive in thatage, that ever proposed questions to him. He wasservant or teacher to King James VI. as his privatecounsellor, but publicly he acted as fool.It happened one day that a young airy noblemanWent iato tke Kite's garden, %9 gull a Rower for a3young lady he fancied. George followed at a dis¬tance ; so when the young man found a flower to hispleasure, he would not pull it, but to And it againwithout further searching, he covered it with his hatand went away for his sweetheart. No sooner was hegone, but up goes George, lifts the hat, pulls the flow¬er, then eases himself on the spot, and covers it with,the hat again, and away he goes. Soon after theyoung gentleman returned, leading his sweetheart topull the flower below the hat; but as soon as he liftedthe hat, and saw what was below it, he looked like afool; and the lady flying in a passion, sets off, andwould never countenance him any more. The younggentleman being sadly vexed at this affront given himby George, sent him a challenge to fight him, appoint¬ing day and place where they were to meet. Beingto fight on horseback, George gets an old stiff horse,and for harnessing covers him about with blown blad¬ders, with small stones in each, without either swordor spear; away to the field he goes, where the duel wasappointed. So, when George saw his enemy comingagainst him, all in glittering armor, armed with swordand spear, he jnade up to him with all the speed hishorse could carry him; when the small stones madesuch a rattling noise, that the gentleman’s firie geld¬ing would not stand the battle, but ran away andthrew his master to the ground, which caused all thespectators to laugh and say the gentleman was morefool than George. The gentleman being still moreenraged at this second affront, he would fight withGeorge on foot; but his friends persuaded him thatit would be no honoy for him to fight and kill theKing’s fool, and far less to be killed by the fool; sothey were advised both to agree. But the gentlemen,would try another exploit with George, for to have itsaid he was still the cleverest man, viz. To hold him a.jumping- bout publicly, the next day thereafter. With4all my heart, says George, and we will end in and a«Lout where we began : they not knowing his meaningin this, The place and hour being set where theywere to meet next morning, George in. the night timecaused a deep pit to be made, and the earth of it car¬ried away; then filled it up with dung from a privy, andcovered it over with green turf, that it might not beknown by the other ground. So, according to pro¬mise, they both met in the morning against the ap¬pointed time. Now George being the oldest man, andby them counUd the greatest fool, the young sparkpermitted him to jump first, which he, according toorder did; and jumped within a foot of the place wherethe ground was falsified. The young man seeing thismade his performance with great airs, and all hi*might, so that he jumped a foot over George, and upto his oxter in clean dung: whereat the whole multi¬tude of spectators cried out with loud huzzas andlaughter Now, says George, I told you we wouldend in and about where we began, and that is in cleandirtOn a time after this, the king and his court weregoing into the country, and they would have Georgeto ride before them in the fool’s dross; whereunto heseemed unwilling, but it was the king’s pleasure. SoGeorge was mounted upon an eld horse, with the heelshanging down, and a palmer coat, patched over withpictures of divers kinds. George rode before them inthis posture, which caused great laughter and diver¬sion, until they came to an inn, where they alightedto dine ; and in the time they were at dinner, Georgewent into the stables, and with a knife cut all theirhorses chafts, not sore, but so as they might bleed.Now, as soon as dinner was oter, and they mountedtheir horses again, George riding before them asiual, in his palmer coat and old boots, they began tomake their game of him ; then George turning aboutsuddenly clapped his hands with a loud laughter, theKing asked him what made him laugh so ? Laugh,j says George, how can 1 but laugh when horses cah*not hold their peace? O my sovereign, says he,don’t you see how your horses have rent their chaftslaughing at my old boots! Then every man looking athis horses chafts, they were all in a rage against George.The King caused George to dismount directly, andcharged him never to let him see his face on Englishi ground. Now, George knowing that nothing couldreconcile the King at this time, he came away toScotland, and caused make him a pair of great boots,and put a quantity of Scotch earth in each of them,and away he goes for London, to see the King oncemore. He hearing the King and his court were topass through a country village, George places himselfin an old window, and sets up his bare a—e to theKing and his court as they passed. The King beinggreatly amazed to see such au unusual honor done tohim, was curious to know the performer: So he cal¬led unto him, desiring him to come down ; and find¬ing it to be George, Sir, says the King, did I notcharge you never to let me see your face again ?| True, my sovereign, says George, for which cause I letyou see my arse, llut, <*ays the King, you was neverto come on English ground again. Neither i did,says George, pulling olf his boots before the King, be¬hold, my sovereign, its all Scotch earth I stand upon.The King and his court being greatly diverted withthis merry joke, George was again admitted to theKing’s favor.After this, there arose a debate betwixt the Kingand the Queen about votes in Parliament; as the King6liad two votes, the Queen would have one, and wouldreeds be a Parliamenter, or no peace without prefer¬ment. This matter was committed to George by theKing. So it was agreed in Parliament that the Queenshould be admitted for a day. Accordingly she'came,and was received with all the honor and congratulationsthat was due and becoming her high statinn : but be¬fore any matter of consequence was brought to theboard, George seated himself hard by the Queen’sseat: all being silent, he rose up very quickly, liftedone of his legs, and let a loud fart, which set the wholehouse a-laughing; whereat, the Queen was greatly of¬fended, and said, Go, take the rogue and hang him.To which, George answered, A fine Parliainentcr in¬deed ! to tiang a man for a sinless infirmity, and that’sa fart. The Queen enrag’d at the affront put on herfirst appearance in Parliament, went oft' in a passion,and would never countenance them more. Put yet,to be revenged on George she would never give theKing rest till he delivered George into her hands,that he might be punished at her pleasure; which theKing accordingly commanded to be done, knowingthat George would rescue himself by some intrigue orOther. No sooner was he delivered into her hands,but she and her maids of honor pronounced his doom,which was as follows: “As he had affronted the** Queen among so great an equipage, who ought to“ be honored in chief above all women in the nation,“ that he should be stoned to cleat it. by the hands ofwomen. Now, the time being come that he was todie, according to their appointment, he was taken intoa park, where a great number of women was waitingfor him, with their aprons full of stones, to fall uponhim, and put him to death, according to the Queen’sappointment,7HIS SPEfCH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.* Here’s a female band with bags of stones,* To kill a man for rumple groans:‘ Pm clean of rapine, blood, and thefts,* Could I convert my farts to rifts ?‘ Since I the first for farting die,‘ Close up the place from whence they fly.* To commit my crime, I think, ye’ll scarce,‘ If once ye do cork up your arse.** And now since women stones do carry,* Men need not in this world tarry.* Judge if such women be chaste complete,* With forty stones between their feet:* But since ’tis so ye will come on,1 The greatest whore throw the first stone.’When he ended with these words, ‘ The greatestwhore throw the first stone,’ every one put it to an¬other to cast the first stone ; but knowing they wouldattain the character of a whore for so doing, they allrefused till the dying hour was past, and then he tooka protest against them, and by that means gained hislife. After this he was admitted to the Queen’s favorand presence, and attended the court as formerly.About this time, the French King, in order to picks quarrel with the court of Britain, sent a letter to theKing, desiring it to be read before the Parliament;and the writing was as follows: ‘ Will I come?—Will1 come ? —Will 1 come ?’-—This letter being read be¬fore the King and his courtiers, they all concludedthat the French King designed to invade England:Therefore, they ordered an answer to be wrote, up¬braiding him with the breach of peace, and puttinghim in mind wf the last treaty. The answer being8real over before the King and his nobles they all a*greed that it should be sent off: But, George smilingand shaking his head, said,Many men, many minds;Who knows what he designs ?They then asked George what he thought the FrenchKing meant Dy such a letter ? To which he answeredI suppose he wants an invitation to come over anddine with you, and then return in a friendly manner,, but you are going to charge him with a breach ofpeace, before he has given any signal of offence-His letter is indeed dark and mystical, but send himan answer according to his question. Now, Georgebeing ordered to write the answer, it was as follow s :* And ye come—And ye come—And ye come.’ Thisbeing sent to the French King, he admired it beyondexpression saying, It was more valiant and daring ^than he expected. So the emnity he intended wasextinguished and turned into love.It happened once that a malignant party in Scot¬land sent up a great spokesman to the King and Par¬liament, for the seducing of the church t George hear¬ing of his coming went away and met him on the bridgeand the salutation that he gave him was, the cuttingoff his head, and throwing it over the bridge! He thenrun to the King with all his might and fell down be¬fore him, pleading most heartily for a pardon, or with¬out it he was a dead man. The King most seriously'asked him what he had done now ? To which he an¬swered, He had only thrown the Scots bishop's hatover the bridge; which made the king to laugh, tohear him ask pardon for such a small fault. But hebad no sooner got the pardon scaled by the King,9than he said, Indeed, my Sovereign, I threw his hatover the bridge, but his head was in it. Geordy,Geordy, says the king, thou wilt never give over tillthou be hanged.A nobleman in England agreed with the King, howto put a trick upon George to try his manly couragein sending him to a certain place for a bag of money.On his way home through St. James’ park, they caus¬ed a sturdy fellow attack him on the way, and takethe money from him. The fellow being armed withsword and pistol, came up briskly and attacked Georgewith these words, You, sir, deliver what money youhave, or you are a dead man To. which^George an¬swered, Sir, I have some, indeed, but TiS not my owu,and therefore do not like ts part with it; neverthelessbeing determined as you seem to be, to exchangeblows for it, pray do me the fa'vor to fire your pistolthrough the flap of my 'coat, that the owners may seeI have been in danger of my life before I parted withit: which he accordingly did. No sooner had he firedthe pistol, than George whips out his hanger from be¬low his coat, and with one stroke cut off the fellow’sright hand, wherein he held the sword, so that bothsword and hand fell to the ground : but George liftedbis hand and carried it to the King. No sooner didhe come before them, but they asked him, sa}ing.Well, George, did you see any body to trouble youby the way? None, said he, but one fellow, who wasgoing to take the money from me; but I made himgiev me his hand he would.not do the tike again. Youdid ? says the fellow’s master. Yes, I did, says George,let work bear witness, throwing down the fellow’s handon the table before them all.10Now, this last exploit of George’s caused many ofthe English to hate him ; and among the test, a youngnobleman fell a joking with George, saying, he wouldbe as fam e's a champion for Scotland as Sir WilliamWallace was. Aye, aye, says George, Wallace was a. brave man in his time. True, indeed, says the youngnobleman, but when he came to London, we did himall manner of justice, and, for honor of tie Scots, wehave his effigy in our shit houses to this very day.And do you not know the reason of that, says GeorgeNo, I don’t, says he. Well, I’ll tell you, says George :He was such a terror to Englishmen, when he was a-live, that the sight of his picture yet makes them be-shit themselves. The English took this answer as agreat affront, and forthwith caused Wallace's pictureto be taken out of all their shit-houses.EORGE happened one time to be in companywith a bishop, and so they began to education,wherein he blanked the bishop so remarkably, thatthe bishop himself owned he was worsted — Then oneof the company addressed George with these words ;Thou Scot should not have left thy country Forwhat reason, says George. Because thou hast car¬ried all the wisdom that is in it hither with thee. No,no says George, the shepherds in Scotland will dis¬pute with any bishop in London, and exceed them ve¬ry far in education. The bisheps took this as an af¬front, and several noblemen affirmed it to he as theScot had said : Butts were laid on each side, and threePART II.of the bishops were chosen and sent away to Scotland,to dispute it with the shepherds, accompanied with sev¬eral oteers, who were to bear witness of what theyshould hear pass between them Now, George know¬ing which way they went, immediately took anotherroad, and was in Scotland before them. He thenmade acquaintance with a shepherd on the border,whose pasture lay by the road side where the bishopswere to pass; and there he mounted himself in ashep-Jicrd's dress: and when he saw the bishops appear, heconveyed his flock to the road-side, and fell a chant¬ing at a Latin ballad. When the bishops came up toGeorge, one of them asked him, in French, whato’clock it was? To which he answered, in Hcbrgw His directly about the time of the.day it was yesterdayat this time. Another asked him, in Greek, Vfhatcountryman he was? To which he answered, in Fle¬mish, If you knew that, you would be as wise as my¬self. A third asked him in Dutch, Where was youeducate? To which lie answered in Gaelic, Herdingmy sheep between this and Lochaber. This they de¬sired him to explain in English, which he immediatelydid. Now, says one of them we need proceed no far¬ther. What, says George, arc you butchers ? I’ll sellyou a few sheep. To this they made no answer, butw'ent away shamefully, saying, they believed the Scotshad been through all the nations in the wqrldfor theireducation or the devil had taught them. Now whenGeorge had ended this dispute with the bishops, hestripped off his shepherd’s dress, and up through Eng¬land he goes, with all the haste imaginable, so that hearrived at the place from whence they set out, threeclays before the judges, and went every day asking ifthey w'ere come, so that he might not be suspected. •As soon as they arrived, all that were concerned inthe dispute and many more, came crowding in tohear what news from the Scottish shepherds, and12to know what was done. No sooner had the threegentlemen declared what had past between the bish¬ops and the shepherds, whom they found on the Scotsborder, but the old bishop made answw, And thinkyou, said he, that a shepherd could answer thesequestions ? It has been none else but the devil, for theScots ministers themselves could not do it, they arebut ignorant of such matters, a parcel of beardlessboys. Then George thought it was time to takespeech in hand. Well, my Lord Bishop, says George,you call them a parcel of ignorant beardless boys—You have a great long beard, yourself and if gracewas measured by beards, you bishops and the goats,would have it all and that will be quite averse toScripture What says the bishop, are you a S ot ?Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well, says the bish¬op, and what is the difference between a Scot and asot? Nothing at present, says George but the breadthof the table: there being a table betwixt the bishopand George. So the bishop went off in a high passion■while the whole multitude were like to split theirjaws with laughter.About this time there was an act of Parliamen forthe benefit of murderers, that any person who com¬mitted murder, if they forfeited five hundred merks,which went under the name of KIK-BOO T, becauseso much of this fine went to the murdered person’snearest relations, as the price of blood, the murderergot a remit. Now, George knowing this to be con¬trary to Moses’ laws, was grieved very much to seeso many pardons sealed with the King’s hand for mur¬der, almost one every week, it being so usual for theKing to subscribe them, that he would not read them,nor enquire what they were; for which cause Georgewrites a wright to the crown, and sent it to the King13to be subscribed, which he actually did, and neverlooking what it was, refurned it to George. No soon¬er had he received it, but he goes to the King, andtold him it was not time for him to be sitting there :whereat the King greatly amazed, started up; thenGeorge, in a great haste set himself down in the King’schair, forthwith, declaring himself to be king, saying.You who was king must be my fool, for l am now thewisest man. The king was greatly offended at this,until George shewed him the seal and subscription.—-Hut from that day forth, the king knew what he sub*scribed.The next pardon that came to be sealed by theling, was to a gentleman who had killed two men be¬fore, and had gotten pardons for them by money.This being the third, the king was very silent in look¬ing over it; George standing by, asked what he wasgoing to seal now ? To which he answered, it is a re¬mit for a man who has killed three men at sundry•iimes, I gave him twA’emits before. O ! says George,he has killed but one man. And who killed the o-tber two ? says the king. You did, says George; forif you had given him justice whe» he killed the first,he had killed no more. When the king heard thesewords, he threw down the pen, and declared thatsuch an act to save a murderer should be null ever af¬ter by him.One time George having no money, he goes awayand gets a pick and spade, and then falls a-digging ata corner of the king’s palace: which the king percei¬ving from his window, calls out what was he wantingthere ? Are you going to undermine my house andmake it fall ? No, my sovereign, said George; but it14is verily reported that there is plenty of money aboutthis house, and where can it be ? says George, I can¬not find it; for-dt is not within the house to do me ser¬vice ; then surely it must be below it. O George,says the king, that is a crave after the new fashion ;what money you want I’ll order it for you. Tlren,my sovereign, says George, I’ll dig no more.One time George being in the country, he arrivedat an inn, where he alighted to refresh himself and hishorse. The innkeeper charged him double price forevery thing he called for. George never grumbled atthis but gave him all his demands, and away he goeson his journey. At the inn where he quartered nextm'ght, he was used after the same manner, if notworse. Having little farther to go, he returned next<Iay, and came to the same inn where he had beentwo nights before. So, when he alighted, the boyasked him what he would give his horse? What youwill, says he. The master of the inn came into his*oom before supper, and asked what he would havefor supper. What you will, landlord, says he Aftersupper, and a hearty bowl to put all down, he went tobed. Gn the morrow he rose very early, anu calledfor the boy to make ready his horse in all haste, farlie intended to mount and go directly Soon after,be went into the stable where the boy was, calling forbis horse, when he mounted with all the speed he•ould, and gave the boy a piece of money, paying,|4ere, my hoy, this is for taking care of my horse;I have paid for all I call’d for in the houseand offhe goes. About mid day he alighted again at an innto refresh himself and his horse, and there he chancedto be in coVnpany with his other landlord, who usedhim so badly ; bir, says George, I believe I was inJ^ut hpuse two nights ago. 6 yes, sir, says he, I15mind of you pretty well. And where was you lastnight. Last night! says George, I was in one of tbeinns, and the civilest landlord I ever had in my life;they brought all things to me that I stood in need of,without calling for them; and when I came off thishnorning, they charged me nothing, and I paid noth¬ing but sixpence to the boy for dressing my horse.Blood and wounds' said the old fellow, then I’ll gothere this night—Ay, do, says George, and mindthis, when they ask you what you will have for your¬self and your horse, answer. What you will, sir.George smiled within himself to think how he had gotthe one extortioner to take amends of the other.—Sothis innkeeper set off on his journey, and rode so latethat night, that he might reach the cheap inn, thatmost of the people were gone to bed before he arrivedAs soon as he dismounted from his horse, the boy en¬quired him W hat shall I give to your horse, mas¬ter ? To which he answered.. What you will, boy,—«The boy hearing this ran away up stairs Heaving hintand his horse standing at the door) to his master^room, crying, master, master, What you will is comeagain!! O the rogue ! cries he, where is he ?—1’iicane him—I’ll what you will him by and by!—Aadto him he runs with his cane, licks and kicks him un¬till he was hardly able to mount his horse again, andwould give him n« entertainment there; which cait»sed himto ride a whole winter night, after he had gothis bones all beat and bruised. So the one pursuedthe other as a murderer; and his defence was, Thathe was a cheat, and a scorner of hia house—untilthe truth was found out.% -1GPART III.AFTER this, George being in Cornwall aboutbusiness, where he chanced to run short of mo*’ney and not knowing how to make his way to Londonwithout it, being acquainted with none in that coun¬try, but knowing his landlord to be loyal to govern¬ment, and a great favorite of tire king his master, hetakes a piece of brick, and brays it into small powder,mixed with a little chalk, so that it might seem in co¬lor like arsenic, which is strong poision; then tying itup in two papers, writing on the •ue « Sivnug poisonfor the King ' and on the other x Slow poison for thelluecu.' Out he goes on purpose, and leaves the par.cels on the table, where he knew they would be look¬ing at them, the landlord perceived the directions.So in comes George in a great haste, and calls out,O landlord, did you see two small parcels I have lost,I know not what to do, for it was my main businessto take them to London. O you murdering rogue!cries the landlord, I will have you hang’d for whatyou intend George hearing this, made off, but thelandlord calling for assistance, ha was apprehended,made prisoner of state, and conductud to London bya troop of horse, where the people knowing him toldthe guard who he was, they hearing this slipt awayshamefully one by one George thanking them for theirgood company and safe convoy.George one day easing himself at the corner of ahedge, was espied by an English squire, who began17to mock him, asking him, Why he did not keckle likethe hens ? But, George, whose wit was always ready,told him, he was afraid to keckle lest he would comeand snatch up the egg.—Which rebuff made the ’squirewalk off as mute as a fish.George was met one day by three bishops, whopaid him the following compliments. Says the first.Good-day, father Abraham.—the second, Good-day,father Isaac—the third. Good-day father Jacob. Towhich he replied, I am neither father Abraham, fa*ther Isaac, nor father Jacob: but I am Saul the sonKish, sent out to seek my fathec’s asses, and lo! I-have found three of them. Which answer convincedthe bishops that they had mistaken their man.There was a bell at Dalkeith, which the Popishclergy made use of to extort confession from the ig¬norant people, in the following manner j They told thepersons whom they suspected guilty, the bell wouldrive at the touch of a guilty person; but if not guiltyit would not. By these means they generally fright¬ened the ignorant into confession : for if the bellwould rive the person was then to be condemned todeath. But they managed the matter so, that the bellwas never brought to trial, till George did as follows she was imprisoned for saying, That the Pope was fal-liablc himself ; and could not pardon the sins ofothers. George owned he said so, but would refe.rto the bell whether he was guilty or not. The priests,tho’ unwilling, were obliged to comply Georgetouched the bell, repeating as before. The Pope isfalliable, and cannot pardon sin: moreover added.The Pope anjl the Popish clergy are imposters: and18and thereupon touched the bell, referring to it for thetruth; but the bell not rending, the priests were dis¬graced as impostors George was honorably acquitted ;and the bell was laid aside.A young gentleman that would be witty on thescripture, eating some cheese full of mites, one night,at a tavern :—Now, said he, I have done as much asSamson, for I have slain my thousands and ten thou¬sands. Yes, replied George, who happened to be inhis company, and with the same weapon too, thejaw-bone of an ass.—Which set the whole companya laughing, to see the young gentleman beat with hisown weapon.George being in company where three bishopswere present at dinner, they knowing George to be agreat scholar, and comical withal, they put upon himto say the grace, which he did as follows :Here are three brethren of the coat,Who for thy blessings thank thee not,Curse them Lord, and bless them not. A man.Fall on, gentlemen, the cause is good. This gracemade the bishops look on one another like fools,while George laughed heartily at the confusion theywere in.PART IY.Acandlemaker having had some candles stolen,was telling it in a qompany wherf George waspresent, who bade him be of good cheer, for, says he,i» a short time they wtil all come to light.George being gent to Paris about some business',went from thence to Versailles to see the Frenchking’s court; and being known there by several ofthe courtiers, who had been at the English court, oneof them took occasion to tell the French king, thatGeorge was one of the wittiest men in England ; uponwhich, the French king desired to see him; which hedid, but George, it seems, was out of humor, or seem¬ingly so, and spoke but little to the purpose, so thatthe French king told the nobleman who commend-ded him for such wit, that he looked upon him as avery dull fellow ; but the nobleman assured the king,thyt whatever he thought of him, George was a verywitty and ingenious man: whereupon, the king wasresolved to make further tiial of him, and took himinto a large hall where there were a great mumber offine pictures, and and among the rest he shewed himthe picture of Christ on the cross, and asked him ifhe knew whom that was ? but George made himselfvery ignorant, and answered no. Why, said the king,I will tell you, if you do not know:—This is the pic¬ture of our Saviour on the cross, and that on theright hand is the pope’s and that on the left is myown. thereupon George replied, I humbly thankyour majesty for the information, for tho’ I have of¬ten heard that our Saviour was crucified between twothieves, yet I never knew who they were before.George being one day travelling to London, andthe weather being very cold and rainy, he alightedat an inn to refresh and warm himself; but the firebeing surrounded with people he could scarcely seeit: George finding this to be the case, calls to thehostler, and orders him to give las horse, at the door,half a peck of oysters: You mean oats, Sir: No, no,says George, it is oysters, and base is that harse thatwill not eat oysters. The people at the lire hearingthis, started up and ran to the door to see the horseeating oysters: the moment they left their seats,George took the opportunity to plant himself beforethe fire, with a table and cloth aside him. In a littlethey came back again one by one, saying, This horsewill not eat oysters: Well, well, says George, he istoo lull or too saucy ; so you may bring them in andI will eat them myself.One time after this, George being in company a-liout twenty miles from London, and on bis wayhomeward, a fine gilded coach came up after him,and being informed that it belonged to the bishop ofCanterbury, and was going to London for his Lord-ship, George addresses himself to the coafchman tohave a passage with him in the coach to London. Sohe bargained with the coachman for two dollars tocarry him to the Bell-Inn on London bridge; the onehe gave him in hand as he entered the coach, and hewas to give him the other as soon as he saw him comeout of the coach-door : So away the ceachman drivesto London, in all haste, in which time George wrotethe following lines:Here sits the bishop of Canterbury,Who at the schools disdain’d to tarry.JFar better skill’d in games than preaching.And yet he lives by others teaching.Blind leaders of the blind indeed>Tis blind and lame that chariots need,Six brutes with eyes this brute doth carry,I mean the bishop of Canterbury.My feet being lame I gave a dollarTo be drove in §tate, like you a scholar;21F<Jr which I do myself abhor,Shame caus'd me make another door.These lines George battered on the inside of thecoach, and when he came within a mile of London hetook a knife and cut a great hole in the backside ofthe coach, through which he came out; and to makehis promise good to the coachman, that he was to givehim the other dollar as soon as ever he saw him comeout of the coach-door. The poor coachman drove ontill he came to the aforeaid inn, where he alightedand opened the door to let out his passenger; but see¬ing the coach empty, and a great hole in the back¬side of it, he cried, I believe I have had the devil inthe coach, and he has taken away the backside ef itwith him The people of the inn came flocking a-bout to see what was done; and then perceived thelines on the inside of the coach, which the bishopcame and read himself, they all concluded it to bedone by George, but could make nothing of it; forthe bishop said, to pursue might well make it worse,but no better.George went into the mint one day, when theywere melting gold. One of them asked George if hewould have his hat full of gold ? George readily Ac¬cepted, but it burnt the bottom out of his hat as theyknew it would, and for that bout they foiled George.However, George to be even with them bought a finelarge hat, and caused a plate of copper to be put be¬twixt the hat and the lining; and returning next day,they jestingly asked him if he would have another hatfull of gold!' he said he would: they gave it red hot,and George now laughed at them in his turn, tellingthem, That his new hat was a g»)od one and stoodtire better than the old one. And so be carried it*22off honestly. and being prosecuted to return it, he ex¬cused himself, telling the judge that he took nothingbut what-vas given him. And therefore he was ho¬norably acquitted, and the other heartily laughed at.tv, *' • IfA Scotsman being reduced to poverty, made hiscomplaint to George to put him in a way to get mo¬ney; Georgo told him if he would follow his directions ihe would try it. There was an old miser a usurerand money-changer hard by, George told the fellowto pretend an errand to the miser, and when he cameto the table where the heaps of money lay, to thrusthis hand amorg the gold, but to lift none, and to runoff. This the poor fellow did, and was chased by themiser and his servants, who ram after him into thestreet, crying Stop the thief! The poor fellow waswas stept. (as George had desired him to !fet themcatch him) George appeared in the mob. and went a-long with him, who was carried before a judge, wherehe was searched and nothing being found upon him,he was acquitted, and the mi-ser fined in a large sumfor accusing him. Afterwards, George desired hhnto go to the same place, and thrust in both his hands,and lift up as much as he could, and run oil' Thishe did, but the miser told him he was not such a foolas to follow him, for he knew he designed to play thefool to hafe him fined again. By these means the 1poor fellow was enriched and afterwards lived ho¬nestlyGeorge being at dinner one day, where the brothwas eaceecling hot, burnt his mouth, at the same timeletting a loud fart. It is very good for you, savsGeorge, that you made yeur escape, for I should havetfurnt you alive had you staid.'23A young curate with more pertness than wit oflearning being asked in company how he came totake it into his head to enter into the ministry of thechurch ? Because, said he, the Lord hath need of me.That may be, replied George, who was present, for Ihave often read that the Lord had once need of anass.Two drunken fellows fell a-beating one another onthe streets of London, whieh caused a great croud ofpeople throng together to see what it was; a taylorbeing at work in a garret, aboii? three or four storeyshigh, and hearing a noise in the street, looked overthe window, but could net well see them: so he be.-gan to stretch himself, making a long neck, until hefell down out of the window, and alighted upon anold man who was walking on the street'; the poor ta-lor was more afraid than hurt, but the man he fell ondied directly. His son caused the tailor to be appre¬hended, and tried for the murder of his father. Thejury could not bring it^iu as wilful murder, neithercould they altogether free the tailor s so the jury gaveit over to the judges, and the judges to the king. Theking asked George’s advice in the matter. Why,says George, 1 will give you my opinion in a minute;you must cause the tailor to stand on the street in thesame place where the old gentleman was when he waskilled by the tailor, and then let the old gentleman’sson the tailor’s adversary, go up to the window fromwhence the tailor fell, and jump down and so kill thetailor as he did his father; tor I can make no more ofit: you see it was a great mercy for the tailor that hehad the old gentleman baneath him, else he had beenkilled on the spot, and that it was the old gentleman’slot or misfortune to die there. The tailor s adversary24h«anng this sentence past, he would not venture tojump over the window, and so the tailor got clear off.After this, George being sent with the British am¬bassador into Italy, by the way of Paris ; as they wereveiwing the beautiful statutes and large buildings inthat spacious city, the King and many of his noblesin company, as they were walking through the King’sgarden, among the images of the saints, they came tothe image of the virgin Mary, who stood in a melan¬choly posture with the babe in her arms. One of thenoblemen says to the British ambassador, Do not youthink but she looks angry ? O yts, says George, shesees Englishmen and Frenchmen in friendship andunity one with another. No, no, says the FrenchKing, she loves nothing better than the reconciliationof enemies, peace and unity is her delight. ThenGeorge gets in below the statue, and looks up, O!says George, I know what is the matter now,_somebody has driven a great nail in her a—e; I see thehead of it sticking out, it would vex any person livingbesides a piece of wood. At this the King was great¬ly enraged against George, for calling her a piece ofwood: and nothing would satisfy the King, unlessGeorge would fall down and worship the virgin Mary,and crave mercy from her for tie blasphemous reproaches wherewith he had reproached her. ThenGeorge cries out O may it please your majesty to o-mit it at this time, I dare not look her in the face, shefrowns on me with such an angry countenance, thisdutiful command of yours must be delayed until l re¬turn from Italy and then 1 shall fulfil your demand,in paying all dutiful respect and worship unto her,according to what she is. So here the ambassadorstood bound for George, that he would perform this25piece of worship at his return, according to the king’spleasure.Now, during their stay in Italy, they chanced to bein a nobleman’s house where they kept but tew ser¬vants. because of a spirit that haunted the house forthe space of two hundred years .before that time, sothat no servant could work any kind of labour in orabout the house for it, except cooks; for what theyvulgarly called a brownie, it did all itself and wouldsuffer no fellow-labourer to work along with it.On the next morning George got up pretty early,and called for water to wash himself, then directlycomes the brownie, with a bason of water in one handand a clean clotn in the other. George perceivinghim have such a pale ghostly countenance, and not tobe an earthly creature, said, Of what nation art thou ?To which he answered in Gaelic, A countryman ofyour’s, Sir. The ambassador smiled and joked George,telling him, it was a devil, and how could it be ?icountryman of his ? O, says George, I will shew youthe contrary of that, for the devil dare not stay in mycountry. George having washed himself, it came a-gain to take away the bason and the towel; tnen saysGeorge, And how long is it since you left your owncountry ? About two hu&dred and fifty years ago, re¬plied the brownie. Then certainly, says he, thou arta devil and not an earthly creature. To which it an¬swered :I am what I am and a Christian too.Then I am what I am to conjure you. says George. He taking a handful of water and throwing it u-pon the old wither’d tace of it. and repeated the formof the words of baptism in Gaelic, thus, If thou be aChristian thou art old enough to be baptized. No26toone* bad he done this, but it went off weeping andcrying, O! let never a rogue put trust in his country¬man after me. Now, says George, I told you the de¬vil f'art-s not stay in my country, nor yet look a Scots¬man in the face in his own, vVhat, says the Italianlord, do you imagine this to be the devil’s own coun¬try? It appeaas so, says George, for he is the oldestresidenter in it. I know: but my Lord, said he, andplease your grace I think clergymen are very scantin this country, when you have kept the devil so longfor a chaplain. The nobleman gave no answer tothis; but expressed his sorrow to be very great forthe loss of his brownie.The ambassador having done his business in Italy,they returned homeward ; and on their way the am¬bassador began to question George, how he thoughtto esca. c Paris without committing idolatry ? No, no,says George, I never did worship any image nor ne¬ver shall; but 1 shall make them worship the worst inmy guts. No sooner were they arrived at Paris butGeorge leaves the ambassador, and goes dhtelly tothe Virgin Mary, and jumps in ove) ihe rail to thpholy ground, (as tluy termed it) whereon she stood,where few durst go but priests and friars: and therebe loosed his breeches, and made.auch groaning ea¬sing himself, that he was heard by the priests aridfriats who were walking near by, and they perceivingtins heinous abomination, ran upon him like a pack oT• hounds, and carried him before the cardinals and fa-(/ ther confessors, where lie was allowed to speak forhimself, which he did as follow#: “May it pleaseyour most excellent worships to hear my reasons be¬fore \ ou pronounce sentence aguimt me. It was mymisfortune to be passing through this city sqnis im nihsago with the British ambassador on our way to Imp.:,and one day, while we were walking in the King’s jar-^7den, in presence of the King and many of bis nobi: «.who can bear witt ess of the same : I being ignorant-ofyour traditions and rites of religion, foolishly offended,reproaching the virgin Mary to her face; and eversince she has plagued me with bounciness in my bel¬ly that I have voided nothing but clean haugh : sonow on my return, I went and implore d her to openmy fundament, and she has done so: and 1 being o-verjoyed ^ith the miraculous healing, in getting apassage in her presence, left it as a memorial of themiracle, in that place.” When they heard this, theyall with one consent lifted up their hands and blessedthe virgin Mary, for the wonderful miracle she haddone; and ordered George to go about his business,and declare unto all what was dune unto him by theholy Virgin, for the confirmation of their religion.So all the devoted Romans came to view his dung,and worship over it. the King himself kneeled downancl worshiped, bowing his body over it in the pre¬sence of many people : and he also caused a holy dayto he observed throughout his dominions, for the mi¬raculous cure.PART V.THREE merchant pedlars (as they professed(obe)came with a pack of goods to put a trick upon a wi¬dow woman that kept an inn on the highway-side:after they had drunk-very heartily, they desired thewoman to lay up the pack securely, and charged herstrictly before witnesses to deliver it to none of them,unless they came altogether for it again. In aboutthree weeks after, two of them returned, and desiredthe woman to give them the pack, telling her that theother man was gone to such a fair with another pack,where they were all to meet; and that they were fel-low-travelleis, conjunct in trade, and they had ail a28light to tVe pack alike: whereupon, the poor simpiewoman not dreading any harm, gave them the pac k.So, in a few days thereafter, the other man comesand demands the pack; the honest ivoman told himplainly that the other two men had been there before,and had got itawray; then he began to demonstrateto the woman what great danger she was in, and forth¬with raised a process against her by law, to defendwhich it cost the poor woman a vast sum of money, asthe plea continued more than two years; and a greatcourt being one day to sit to decide the process,which would undoubtedly have been done in favor ofthe pursuer, the proof being so clear, and the womanherself not denying what the bargain was, when shegot the pack to keep.The poor woman being in great atraits, and herpurse being empty her attorney told her plainly, asher money was done he could no longer defend her.The woman once more plucked up her heart, andwent to London to employ a new attorney to speakfor her; but for want of gold none would undertakeit, George being in a house where he heard thepoor woman making a mournful complaint to one ofher attorneys, who gave her no comfort nor satisfac¬tion ; for when she told him she had no money tospend, or give in defence of it, the attorney went a.way and would hear no more ol the woman’s grievouscomplaint, which made George laugh very heartily,while the poor woman sat weeping like one distracted.Poor woman, says George, you need not think thatman will speak a word for you, unless you had bro’t apurse of gold to loose his tongue; but as I have got ascheme of the matter, you may go home, and restyourself contented until the time come, and then mylife for your’s, that I shall send you an attorney thatthat will do your business for nothing.29He gave the woman more courage than any she hadspoken to in London: for every one told her that allthe attorneys in the world could not free her. So ac¬cordingly at the day appointed, George dressed him¬self like an attorney, with his gown, and every thingas he had really been so.The court being assembled and the process read o-ver, expences and value of the pack having amountedto above seven hundered pounds was ordered to beput in decreet against the poor widow, which everyone was bemoaning, but could give her no relief.Now George kept himself silent, Rearing them allwith great patience, until the very nick of time, whenhe thought proper to address himself to the judges asfolio* s:*' My Lords, Judges, and Gentlemen of this honor¬able court and company, I have come from London,gratis, out of pure pity to speak a word or two in f a¬vor of this poor woman, who hath exhausted all hermeans in defence of a false accusation against her;and now when her money is gone her speakers aredumb, and I saw none to plead the cause of this poorwidow: Now when sentence is upon the tapis to b<*pronounced against her, I earnestly desire this courtto modify and drop the expences altogether, it is e-nough when the poor woman has the pack to pay;for you all know the woman was no way enriched byit when the other two got it away.’*Then the pursuer’s attorney made answer, asfollows:“ Sir, 1 would have thought that you who havefrom London-, and profess to be a doctor of law ,30snould know better things: know ye not that he whogains the plea gains his exponces as well as the su:n,be what it will.” Yes, it must be so, and shall beso ! said the judges, “ this is all I want,” says George :the whole court a-Iaughing, thinking he was a fool,and become an adversary to the poor woman. 4< Giveover sport, gentlemen,” says George, “ I have notdone yet.”(l My Lords, you will hear me in this: if the poorwoman made a bargain with tnis merchant and othertwo who were with him, for to keep that pack safely,and to deliver it to none of them, until they were allthree present; now, let that man who is here at pre¬sent go and seek the other two, and they shall havetheir pack safe enongh: but she will keep by her firstbargain. So 1 refer to you, Judges and Gentlemen,if this poor woman be not in the right” This madethe Judges look on one another: and the whole courtwith one voice declared the woman to be in the right,and ordered the pursuer to go and seek his two com¬panions : “ No, no,” says George, “ the poo;- womanmust have her expeftces, or surety for it.” Then thejudges caused the pursuer to be arrested at the bar,until the woman got satisfaction for all her troubleand expences. So George returned to London un¬known, but for an advocate, whose fame went throughall England ; which caused many who had law suits,to search through London for him, but none could e«ver find him who gained the w idow’s law-plea.PART VI.A FTER this, an English ’squire who professed tojfX be better versed in poetry than George, laid a wa¬ger with another gentleman, five guineas against one.31that George would not metre the first words that hewould say to him in the morning, when newly awakedout of his sleep ; so the gentleman went the night be¬fore and told George the story, and bade him be onhis guard for in the morning they would certainlycome, and that very early. At midnight, if they will,Says George, I will order my servant to let ti? em in.So the English ’squire sat up all night conferringwith his friends, whether to put a high verse to him,or mean simple words; thinking that George would besitting up all night meditating on an answer : so theyall agreed, that mean and simple words he would notbe thinking on, and have no answer provided for such.So away they came in the morning very early, withseveral gentlemen in company to hear the diversion.George’s servant opened the door, according to hismaster’s orders. The ’squire entered the room firstand awaked George out of his sleep, then said,Rise up you madman and put on your clothes,[To which George answered]O thou hast lost thy wad man, for I am none of those,. The ’squire confessed he was fairly beat, and wouldmatch with him no more Then another gentlemenwould hold five guineas, that he would give him aword or line which he could not metre at the first an¬swer and to answer it directly as soon as he wasdone speaking: but George ordered him first to tablethe money, and then to proceed, which he did in allhaste, and said as follows :My belly rumbled, and then I farted.[George gripping the money, answered),A fool and his money is soon parted.Then they all cried out he was fairly beaten, andwhat George had said was really true: but he wouldnever l^y any more wagers concerniag poetry.32George being now far advanced in years, and beingweary of the great fatigue and folly of the court fa¬shions a short time before his death, he had a greatdesire to go and visit his native country, and theplace of his nativiiy: therefore he petitioned the Kingfor leave to do so, which was granted- So he set outfor Scotland, and went to the parish of Bucharnan, inthe west, where he visited all his relations and friends.But George staying longer from court than the timeallowed, the King sent him several messages to re¬turn, to which he return’d no answer. At last theKing sent him a le ter, threatning, that if he did notappear before him in the space of twenty days, bewould send his Lyon Heralds for him: to whichGeorge returned the following answer :My honour’d Liege, and sovereign King,Of your boasting great I dread nothing:On your feud and favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day I’ll be where few Kings enter.And he also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerniog the government of his kingdom,and the well-being of his soul, which drew tear* fromihe King s eyes when he read it.frs'ia.