SPECULATIVEATHEISM.A SERMON,BY THE REV. JOHN BROWNE,ANDIMPORTANCEANDTEMPER CF RELIGION.PRINTED CY A. JOHNSTON.iMtairO DA V lOMV.SlOfe-;rin k:XET/ILEK CL HFneiOZ• u : '• f 1 ' ■ ■V SEKVioJl*V i 11 El 8 /18fcECnr7XIAESERMON.Psalm xiv. 1.The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God.The foundation of all religion, natural or revealed,is laid on the existence of a God, who made theworld, who establish all the relations that actuallysubsist in it, and who exercises an universal pro¬vidence over it. Were there no such a being therecould be no such thing as religious obligation.Human beings might enter, for various purposes,and with various views, into contracts and obliga¬tions to each other, which either their necessities,or their interests, might induce them, or publicauthority, for the good of society, might obligethem to discharge ; but they could never under¬stand the religious obligation of them as moralduties perpetually binding. And it is plain thatthe obligations of piety could not subsist, wherethere is no God to be adored—no Creator to beloved—no Providence to be trusted—no authorityto be obeyed.As the foundation of all religious obligation lie*in the existence of a Supreme being ; so the powerof it on the minds of men depends on the beliefan acknowledgment of him. That there is such4a Being, brings men under religious obligations,whether they discharge them or not; but it is onlybelieving and feeling, as it were, by strongly im¬pressed convictions of mind that there is such aBeing with whom they have to do, that give con¬science its power and urge to the fulfilment ofthem. And when such a Being is speculativelyadmitted, but practically denied—it is in effect notto have a God at all; but to banish him from theuniverse, and so to take away the force of all re¬ligious obligation. “ lhe wicked hath said in Insheart, I shall never be moved : his mouth is full ofcursing, and deceit, and fraud : under his tongueis mischief and vanity. He sitteth in the lurkingplaces of the villages ; in the secret places doth hemurder the innocent: his eyes are privily set againstthe poor to destroy them." And the reason isassigned: “ He hath said in. his heart, God hathforgotten, he hideth his face, he will never see it.Thou wilt not require it.’’I have selected these words, “ The fool hathsaid in his heart, there is no God,” in order tospeak to you of ihcjblly of Atheism. I do notmean the folly of acting as if there were no God,while at the same time we admit his existence, hissupeiintendence, and government of the world—afolly as criminal and as fatal, as it is commonamong men. That will occupy us some other dayin its proper order and place, in the systematicscheme of instruction which by the help of Godwe purpose to follow. Our object is to shew theJb'ly of Atheism itself, of the opinion that there isno God at all—no Creator of the universe—noPreserver and Controller—-no Governor and Judgeib«a ii 3io.l: '( .If . ; 1of it fo ly rare and not so avowed among nte*.but sttii more criminal and fatal1, and in onr dayinsinuated into the unguarded minds of youth, likea subtile poison, through artful tales, embellishedwith all tire charms of poetry, that deeply interestthe sentiments of the human heart. Not that wesuspect any one of you of this folly, but that we areanxious to guard you all against it; and wc aresure that by exhibiting it in it its own proper light,we sha:l do all that is necessary to make you ab¬hor it.The scheme of Atheism, or the denial of thebeing and providence of God, is an unnaturaloffence against the peculiar and distinguishing ex¬cellency of our nature, and a foolish giving up ofthe most eminent prerogatives and advantages of it.l ire inferior orders of living creatures, from anoriginal defect in their constitution, or the want ofan intellectual principle, though supported by thoomnipotent God, enlivened by his invigorating pre¬sence, and refreshed be Ids overflowing goodness,can neither discern the power that upholds, thepresence that animates, nor the kind and graciousinfluence which cheers and comforts their frame.Hut there is in man a principle of intelligence," boh cannot only converse about the millions ofobjects of which our senses inform us, hut of million*which our senses cannot reach ; a principle of in¬telligence by which we can rise by lofty steps,through the contemplation of the woiks ofereation,and the way* of Providence, to the knowledge ofthe invisible Author of all. It is In fhis that wcare chiefly distinguised from all the inferior ordersof living creatures,—it is tin’s that sets us at the6head of the whole visible creation. It is this whichallies us to angelic spirits, and constitutes ournearest resemblance to the Divinty : and there areno beings in this world, but men, who by their ex¬cellent faculties are qualified to rise to the Makerand Ruler of the universe. But many throughinattention, or the infatuation of vice, discover notthat Being who gave them their directing powers,and by their not discovering him reduce themselvesto the level of the brute creation, and give up themost eminent prerogatives and advantages of theirnature. Atheism may decently fit a creature voidof reason, that cannot even form an idea of a Maker,and much less discover that there exists an al¬mighty and eternal, but invisible one, w ho pre¬serves and rules the universe; hut not a humanbeing, formed on purpose for a serious and suc¬cessful search after him. That man, who deniesthe existence of God, displays a folly, of which noone can, or will be guilty who has not becomethrough the greatest inattention, brutishly stupidand insensible to the honourable rank and stationassigned him in the scale of existence.As this exalted capacity of finding out the Deity,the noblest subject of human thought, constitutesthe superior dignity of human nature, so it is thesource of its most elevated and refined pleasures,and surest consolations. Take away the being ofGod, (as Atheism wishes.) and you deprive man ofthe pleasures arising from the contemplation of hisMaker, (which, while they fill the soul, at the sametime purify it,) whose perfections are the highestobjects of human admiration ; of pleasure, whichremove it at a greater distance from the animal7world, bring it nearer to those more perfect spirits,who, in the scale of nature, stand nearest to God,and which enlarge not only the desire, but thecapacity of enjoying still greater and more refinedpleasures. Takeaway the Deity out of the universe,destroy the intimaterelation which subsists bewteenhim and his Creatures, (as Atheism does) and youdeprive man of all the consolation which flow fromthe contemplation of the boundless goodness, andwatchful providence of God ; more independentthan any other which pow'er wishes, or sensualenjoyments afford; and which can never fail whileGod exists, and men are fitly disposed to receivethem. Suppose that there were no God, wherewill man find satisfaction? What is there, how¬ever dreadful and appaling to human nature, thatmay' not happen, and happen the next moment toall of us, on the supposition of an ungoverned world,such as Atheism supposes ours to be ? If the moreawful occurences of nature, such as earthquakes,inundations, stormy winds, threatening waves, allregulated in their movements, and controlled intheir effects by the omnipotent arm and graciouspurposes of God, be so tremendous and destructive,what would be the state of man, if left to their un¬bodied fury?—May not the heavens be dissolved,the ocean burst her bounds end invade the earth,and the foundations of the earth be overwhelmed ?Nay> nature may be dissolved, and the universebe made a complete desolation. And even thoughw'e w'ere to suppose these impossible, where willman turn for true consolation under the calamitiesof life which are inevitable? It is poor comfort,indeed, to submit to an irreversible fate: or, if the8world afford at ary time sources of comfort undersuffering; yet these, as sad experience tells us, areoften shut up by innumerable and unexpectedevents, against which human ingenuity or forcecannot struggle. If in such circumstance of re¬mediless misfortunes, we have no resource in acommon Father of Spirits, and gracious giver of allgood, who can repair our losses, or bestow on usother blessings that may compensate for them?Wc must be left exposed to the extremity of sorrow',and to the most intolerable of all human agonies,despair. And in general, human life becomes with¬out God, a melancholy existence. I he thoughts,that we have innuraerable wants that we cannotsupply ; and are exposed to infinate dangers, whichwe cannot avoid; that our wisest schemes ma\ hedisconcerted in an instant, and our best enjoymentsblasted: that we have no superior wisdom to guideus, and no superior power to assist and protectus:—these thoughts must, I say, spread tiregloomiest darkness over oar souls, and infuse thebitter gall inio all our pleasuresSuch is the fruit of A theism. But we observefurther that it is the parent of the most fatal errors,Wheretheexistence of a Deity is not acknowledged,universal error in points of tire utmost importance,respecting the improvement, exultation, ami hap¬piness of man, must spread darkness over the min 1,as thick mists spread darkness over the fuse of thesky. If God exists, the farmer, preserver, andgovernor of the universe, and we know him not,it is impossible that we should know ourselves, orthe true design of the human constitution. We,ourselves, become a mystery which we cannot9solve : we have minds of vast intellectual powers,and souls of vast desire drawn up to heaven; andjet see no infinite mind existing that bestowedthe one, and excited the other; no infinite mind todirect the one to some worthy purpose, and tosatisfy the other with some worthy object. It i»equally impossible that we should know our duty;for our first and most important obligations springfrom our sense of dependence on an A;mightyCreator, and our experience of the goodness of anall-gracious benefactor. And what worthy andgenerous motive can we have to the sacred officesof benevolence, if we know not that wc are by awise, all-disposing mind ore great community—endowed by him with generous affections and in¬stincts of mutual sympathy, and designed to pur¬sue one ultimate end, the good of each other.But let us advance and contemplate the badinfluence which Atheism must necessarily have onvirtue and morality, and the strong support thatwill be derived to all the human and social virtuesfrom the belief and acknow ledgment of'a .SupremeGovernor of the world.We may allow that various strong motives to thepractice of all kinds of goodness arise from theattractive and amiable nature of virtue itself, in¬dependently of any positive law or constitutionwhatever; and that an Atheist may feel the forceof them, and oe just, beneficient, and temperate,because these virtues have it; them something thatis amiable and worthy of praise. But it must appearevident that these motives must be stronger uponthe acknowledgment of a Deity, than upon anyscheme which denies him. Upon both supposi-10tions, indeed, the general rules of justice, benevol¬ence, and temperance, may subsist, for they areimmutable ; but when we come down to particularacts of virtuous conduct, proper to a certain orderof beings, to particular situations, special occasionsand circumstances, the firm believer and piousworshipper of an all-wise and gracious Being, whohas fixed the various occurrences of human life inthe most perfect manner, must have the decidedadvantage in point of moral motives over him, whoadmits not the being and providence of God.llulcs which require privations and strong opposi¬tion to craving passions, an Atheist may reckonharsh and oppressive, and look upon them withdiscontented and rebellious eyes. And what isthere to rectify his judgment ? Fate and chance,the idols which he substitutes in the place of God,are with him names of no such estimation as tocontrol him ; for he, who has dared to put the trueGod out of the w’orld, w ill surely not be so cowardlyas to be afraid of a mere name. If he thinks thatthe state of mankind is unfitly settled, that thestate of the w orld is wrong, and the rules of moralconduct naturally resulting from them are wronglikewise, he can have no restraints but self-interest,and the dread of civil punishment, to prevent hissurmounting every obstacle to the free gratificationof his desires. A nd since self-interest is often pro¬moted by breaking through the sacred obligationsof virtue, and artful men act so as to escape thepenalties of human law, what security can theseoffer to society for the observance of the funda¬mental obligations which are necessary for itssupport ?11But the acknowledgment of a Supreme Being,possessed of infinite wisdom and unlimited good¬ness, not only strengthens every motive to goodmorals, by which an Atheist may sometimes beinfluenced, but enforces the practice of them bynew motives, which the Atheist annihilates; for ifthere be no God, the bounteous Giver of all thepowers and dignities which distinguish the natureof man, and of all those blessings w hich supportand cheer his existence, then there is no beingto whom he can be grateful for the enjoyment ofthem ? And if there be no grateful sentiments inhis heart, how then can he act agreeably to theoriginal design of the Creator in his formation;and, in pursuance of the same design, in his pre¬servation ? If there be no God, no almighty,omniscient, and inflexibly just Governor and Judgeof mankind, by whose sentence the fate of theirwhole being must be irreversibly fixed, where isthere place for the overawing power of a reveren¬tial fear? If there be no God, and righteousrewaidcr of all, who acts an honourable andworthy part, where are the motives to a right andgood conduct, necessary to influence the humanheart? Good men are drawn out by gratitude—bad ones overawed by fear; and all more or lessanimated by hope. But Atheism annihilates allthese motives, and takes from virtue all its best andfirmest supports; from men their most efficaciousprinciples of action, and from human nature itsreasonable sentiments.I have only to add on this head, that the gener¬ality of mankind, are always more influenced bythe awe of a supreme authority, than by any other12motive; or in other words that virtuous ami goodcomes more powerfully recommended to themunder the notion of a law by which they shall bejudged, than as a scheme of beauty and order, oras a rule of eternal and unalterable rectitude ; andthat, if all sense of the superintendence and govern¬ment of God were banished from the minds of men,morality would infallibly decline, and vice in allher insolent excess pervade and triumph over theworld.Such, Christians, is the system of Atheism ;such the consequences of it, under every form andmodification. Call it by what name you please,yet if it resolves itself into this at last, that thereis no God, or no Providence, human nature is de¬graded, the rational peace and most sublimepleasures of men are destroyed, the strongest fen¬ces and guards of virtue are thrown down, and abreach is made for the admission of all kinds ofdaring licentiousness.If these propositions be true, as I trust they willappear to you all, you will easily perceive the irra¬tionality and wicked tendency of Atheism. 1 heAtheist acts against his own interest and duty, byintroducing confusion anddisordcrintothe universe:“ The fool hath said in bis heart, there is no God.”From these propositions, the following plain in¬ferences may be deduced, which are so manyserious truths, important and undeniable; that hewho believes that there is no God, cannot havesuch powerful inducements to hold the life, or pro¬perty, or character of his neighbour sacred, as hewho believes the existence, and moial governmentof a supreme deity; that by necessary consequences.\'she cannot give equal security for his behaving w ithhonor, fidelity, and justice; that on this account, lieought to be an object of the most jealous cautionto all, and narrowly watched by those who arecharged with the maintenance of public virtue; notonly as to smaller acts of iniquity, but with respectto the blackest and most atrocious crimes ; andthat religion is tl.e grand support and strength ofall virtue, but that Atheism opens up a plain and*mooth path to all vice, offers new and strongtemptations to if, to which men are not naturallyliable, but which scarcely ever fail of being suc¬cessful, when they meet with inflamed passion*!or vicious dispositions.I have already expressed my trust that none ofyou entertain Atheistical opinions, and 1 am hope¬ful that you will be tnc more on your guard againstthem, from the representation of their tendencywhich we have now given you. It is too commonfor men to consider opinions respecting religion,as matters of no great moment, provided theirpractice be good ; but practice will ever be foundon right religious principles, and where there ar«no such principles as you have-seen, there can beno motives of any power to produce a good prac¬tice. Every man who knows himself, and th«temptations to which he is exposed, w ill, uponconsideration, admit that he has need of everymotive to right conduct, which the belief of a Godaffords; and every truly good man will also admit,(ieviations from his duty to men have been in pro¬portion to the feebleness of S.is religious impres¬sions ; “The transgressions of the wicked saithwithin my heart, that there is no fear of Gcd be¬fore his eyes.”14The subject is of deep importance : let me prt ssit on your notice, and caution you against allatheistical opinions. If you allow all sense of aGod, who made you what you are—preserves youby his unwearied goodness, and exercises a right¬eous government over you—and, of course, allsense of religious obligation, to be banished fromyour mind ; or, if through the infatuation of vice,you come to be so insensible of his existence, andyour relation to him, as never to enquire where isGod, your Maker, how can you then know him ?or how can you acknowledge his benefits withaffection and gratitude? You must give up yourclaim to the rank and honors of rational beings;you must degrade yourselves to the level of thethe brute creation. And can your honourablepride submit to such a degradation ? Shall thetrifling honors of this world, which set us a littleabove each other, be sought by you with eagerness,and the honors which would render you happy forever, be by you undervalued and despised ?Atheism will rob you of the highest honor, whichconsists in your likeness to God. Y'ou shouldseriously consider, that man was designed to benot only a moral but religious being; he must there¬fore be a very imperfect creature, if he be not areligious one; he must be as imperfect withoutreligion, as a human body is imperfect withoutsome of its most important members. His beautyis not only deformed, but entirely destroyed. Whilereligion sheds around him a venerable grandeur,Atheism destroys all the dignity of his character,by blotting out of existence that God, the beliefof whose being and perfections is necessary to make15him uniformly religious and moral in the wholetenor of his conduct. Can you reasonably supposethat you will faithfully and constantly dischargeyour moral duties, when you openly set yourselffree from the law of all rational beings, and fromall fear of a supreme inspector and judge? No,denying the existence of God, you deny at thesame time all the rules of righteousness, and allthe authority that can take infallible cognizanceof your actions.I have yet to consider the influence of Atheismas it respects the future destiny of man, and toenquire into the cause which produces it. Andthough it may not be needful to any one of you,yet I hope that it may be useful to all. The sincerebeliever in God will rather rejoice in the reason¬ableness ami wisdom of his conduct, and in hishappiness in escaping the ruinous folly of Atheism—those who value the interest of society, will seewho are the worthiest objects of esteem and con¬fidence—those who seek their oh n prosperity inthe world, will see what is the wisest course to pro¬mote it—and all will learn that the denial of adeity is at once a proof of a deranged understand¬ing—of a depraved heart—of gross folly andwickedness.It is necessary to observe, that the destructionof all the moral principles, and of the true hap¬piness of man, must ensue, if there be no Creatorof the universe ; and that all those principles andthis happiness will follow in their full extent uponcontemplating the true God as holy, just, andgood ; and not those false fictitious beings, whichignorance, superstition, and worldly policy, have16presumptuously placed on his throne. For if theAlmighty, who regulates the world, were not justand good, who could esteem him? What goodbeing but must hate him ? Who could have thohope of pleasing him? Might not man, howeverhonest anil upright, suffer his indignation ? Ifsuch were the Creator and Governor of the worldnothing could remain but absolute uncertainty ofhappiness, rnxious suspense distraction of thoughtand apprehensions full of terror. And in thisstate (if it were possible) even the best of humanbeings might prefer Atheism itself. For it is bet¬ter to believe that there is no God at. all, than tohave such a God as this. Hut though the absenceof such an unnatural and evil deity might be noloss to the creation ; yet the want of the trueGod, the Father of all the wise and the good, thedirector and governor of nature must he a dread¬ful calamity to the whole universe. No humanmind could con. eive the whole measure and depthof that disasur which would result from therebeing no God in the world.The Atheist I know expects to lose his con¬scious being, to be as if he had never been ; to seeno other sun. when ti is has set on him: and noother scene of action, when this vain life is over.Hut he has no right, even on his own principlesof fate or coance, to hope for this issue. ,:or iffate has given him his existence here, and openeda scene *• t mingled sorrows an<: joys ; what shouldhinder, that this same fate should destine for himanother kind of life—another sphere ot activity,and other calamities, for ever? What has thenthe Atheist to look for? An eternity, perhaps, ifAv17uncertain, fluctuating, interrupted happiness atthe very best; or, perhaps, an almost uninterruptedseries of everlasting calamities; for chance maybe always against him. All men are therefore bythis scheme, rendered anxious about the futurestate of existence—good men are discouraged anddepressed in their enterprizes of virtue—wickedmen are placed in very disconsolate circumstan¬ces. for they are deprived of the most powerfulmotives to reform their evil courses, and to pur¬sue the greatest and most important happiness oftheir being. To be cut off from the possibility ofobtaining the enjoyment of pure and immortalpleasure, is wh it few, even of the most corruptand degenerate of men would wish to be theirinevitable portion; for they general!v sin with thehope of securing the gratifications of both unrids.Hut \thei>m does cut them off front the assuredexpectation of any pleasures beyond the unrro vlimit of mortality; for it supposes the nonexis¬tence of that Go.I, who can, and has promised tobestow them. And this is the peculiar basenessand infamy of it, that it. ruins the must glorioushope that the mind of man can form, th*t of ex¬tending his b'.'inir to eternity ; and degrades himto the destiny of a brute, that of rotting for everamong the clods of the valley." hence, it is now time to ask, could such ascheme as that of Atheism arise. It there be ahuman being who desires the existence of a Deity,and explodes his laws, he must be one of the mostdaring beings in creation; and one could hardlyconceive by what train of impressions he couldhave reaohjtl such awful insolence, as to defy altISinvisible power, to challenge every unknownbeing to evince his existence by his vengeance;or what train of causes has operated to form thatadventurous spirit which can carry him forward tothe great experiment of futurity under a differentkind of hazard from that of all other men. Buthe may say that there is no daring in the case ;it is the result of superior knowledge. The won¬der then turns on the great folly by which a mancould glow up to this knowledge, that there is noGod ; that the luminaries of heaven shine not withhis splendor, the earth looks not fair with hisbeauty ; that the darkness of the night is not ren¬dered solemn by his majesty ; that life and thoughtare not the effect of his energy ; that it is not hisprovidence that supports an infinite change ofdependent beings; that//« justice does not per¬vade the universe; n.ty, that the universe itselfdocs not spring from his creating power, Andsurely such knowledge as this involves the attri¬butes of divinity, while a God is denied. Forunless this man be omnipresent, and unless he beat this very moment in every place in the universehe cannot know but there may be, in some place,manifestations of a God, by whom he might beoverpowered. If he does not know absolutelyevery agent in the universe, the one that lie doesnot know, be God. if he is not himself thechief agent in the universe, and does not knowwho is so, he who is so may be God. Ifhe is notin absolute possession of all the propositions whichr onstitute univetsal truth, the one which he wantsmay be, that there is a God If he cannot withcertainty assign the cause of all that he perceivesV19to exist, that cause may be God ; and if he doesnot know every thing that his been done in theunmeasurable ages that are past, some things mayhave been dohe by a God. Thus, unless theAtheist knows all things, that is precludes anotherdeity, by being one himseK, he cannot know thatthe Being whose existence he rejects docs not exist.And if he be, for all his pretended intelligence,but an ordinary man, one does not know whetherto pity or to despise the rashness of his folly inavowing his disbelief of a God, and acting upon it.No, Christian brethren, whatever pretensionsmay be made to superior lights of understanding.Atheism does not spring from accurate knowledge,hut from ot her sources. t mong men who assumethe rank of philosophic leaders, the usual sourcesof Atheism are—pride, which idolizes itself, whichrevolts at every thing that comes in the form ofdictates from superior power—repugnance to thelaws of a constraining morality—dislike of ac¬countableness to an intelligent, all powenulauthority—contempt of inferior men—the attrac¬tion rf a few brilliant examples—the fashion of aclass—the ambition ol' shewing what ability cando. and courage can dare:—these are the originof those laborious speculations, by which a fewdesperate spirits have ascended a dreary eminence,from which they look up with so much compla¬cency to a vacant heaven, and down to the gulphof annihilation The common source of it, what¬ever they may pretend, is depravation of heartleading to licentiousness of life. A belief in Godand a good conscience always go together. Andas no man ever gave up the hope of immortality20until every spnrk of virtue ^ras extincuished in hissoul, so no man ever denied the being of a Goduntil his impurity and vice made it his happinessto think, and his interest to wish, that there wereno (rod.” The Psalmist hath spoken the truth ;“ The fool hath said in his heart there is no God.”To calm his conscience, he endeavours to persuadehimself that there is no God, as he feels he cannotpass unpunished, if there be one seated on thethrone of the universe, an eternal avenger ofwickedness. His conscience and his reason rebelin secret against his impiety; he cannot stifle thecry of nature which proclaims incessantly itsAuthor; but he regards it as a pr. ju.fice of infan¬cy, and a remnant of superstitious terror, whicheducation, rather than n iture, has produced inhis soul. Wickedness has in this world no othertesource than to throw off the restraints of religionif she wishes to throw off the yoke of virtue, andenjoy tranquilly the pleasures of sin. A religiousimpression of a God cannot be allied with a dis¬solute life, for it must poison every criminal plea¬sure A wicked man must either abandon vice,or support the unceasing remorse and fears whichaccompany it. 1'lie choice is soon m ulc ; theDeitv disappears from the universe that man maylive tranquil in Ids crimes. Let me hope thatnone of you may evrr be so far bent on wicked¬ness and resolved to have the undisturbed enjoy¬ment of it, as to deny the existence of God. Bealways on your guard against the temptationswhich may seauce you ; for under the commonlanguage of men, there lurks a secret spirit orAtheism. When they talk of fate and chance, or521the influenre of stars in the affairs of the world,and mean by these any thing else than that fixedorder which God hath settled in regulating andconducting them; they speak the language ofAthe:sm, and cherish the spirit of it. You maymeet with such spirits openly denying the Godthat made them ; but listen not to their perversereasonings—no, reject them with detestation, andavoid as much as possible thtir society; for youare liab'c to that infatuation which piomiscs you,after this life, the comfort of non-existence, andof course, imp1. Is you to fill up the measure ofin’quity, til! divine wrath cjme upon you to theuttermost.One of the best means of keeping alive in yourminds a sense of God, is to associate the notionof God with every subject of your thoughts. Thiswould add a new pleasure and interest to all yourthoughts. The thought of virtue would then sug¬gest the thought of a lawgiver and rewardcr ; thethought of crime, that of an avenger ; the thoughtof sorrow, that of a comforter; the thought of aninscrutable mystery, that of a sovereign intelli¬gence that u \derstands it; the thought of thatever-moving activity which prevails in the systemof the universe, that of a supreme agent; thethought of the human family, that of a commonFather ; the thought of every existence, that of aCreator; the thought of life, that of a preserver;and the thought of death, that of a righteous judge.Thus the permanent objects around you, or vam-ishinga ppearancts of the creation, will lead youup to the Author of your being, bring you intohis presence, keep you in his ha*, and inure you22to habits of serious reflection, elevated devotion,and progressive virtue.Do not think that this intimacv with God willmake your life too serious to be cheerful andhappy. Does the thought of a kind and consider¬ate parent make sad the heart of a dutiful child ?Be dutiful to your Father in heaven, and thethought of him will be a source of gladness to you.And the gloomiest and darkest hour will be cheer¬ful to you who have a refuge in the thought of agracious \uthor and Preserver, who will acknow¬ledge you as his children, and make you happyfor ever. Amen.IMPORTANCEANDTEMPER OF RELIGION.Impress your minds with reverence for all thatis sacred. Let no wantonness of youthful spirits,no compliance with the intemperate mirth ofothers, ever betray you into profane sallies.Besides the guilt whish is thereby incurred,nothing gives a more odious appearance of petu¬lance and presumption to youth, than the affec¬tation of treating religion w ith levity. Instead of23being an evidence of superior understanding, itdiscovers a pert and shallow mind ; which, vain ofthe first smatterings of knowledge, presumes tomake light of wkat the rest of mankind revere.At the same time, you are not to imagine, that,when exhorted to be religious, you are calledupon to become more formal and solemn in yourmanners than others of the sime years; or toerect yourself into supercilious reprovers of thosearound you. The spirit of true religion breathesgentleness and affability. It gives a native un¬affected ease to the behaviour. It is social, kind,and cheerful; far removed from that gloomy andilliberal superstition which clouds the brow,sharpens the temper, dejects the spirits, andteaches men to fit themselves for another world,by neglecting the concerns of this. Let yourreligion, on the contrary, connect preparationsfor heaven with an honourable discharge of theduties of active life. Of such religion, discover,on every proper occasion, that you are not asham¬ed ; but avoid making any unnecessary ostenta¬tion of it before the world.2*II V M Nr.)fI9IQuestions anJ doubts be heard no more :Let Christ and joy be all our theme ;His spirit seals his gospel sure.To every soul that trusts his name.oi lo ; 8i63( ormg 3nt 1o aioriJo nBt(3 giinOGJesus, thy witness speaks within;The mercy which thy words reveah .Uc fines the heart from sense and sin,And stamps its own celestial seal.line ymoolg aAi moil havomai ird ; luliaoda hi’ Pis God's inimitable hand,Tha* moulds and forms the heart anew;Wasphcmers can no more withst .nd,Rut bow and own thy doctrine true.aaoilfcicqaiq j on i-n • 03 orii no’ .roiviUiThe guilty wretch that tr 1st thy blood,Kinds peace and pardon at the cross;The sinful soul averse to God,Lk’iieves and loves his Maker's laws.rJ4 "WfOcirf 'li 41 nn* f/.earning end wit may cease their strife,When miracles with glorv shine;The voice that calls the chad to lif<,Must be almighty and divine.