THELIFE OF THE MARTYR,JOHN BROWN,OF PRIESTHILL, *IN THE PARISH OF MUIRKIRK, AYRSHIRE,Who was Murdered byGRAHAM OF CLAVERHOUSE,Near his own house, in 1685.Also, an Account ofHIS COMPANIONS IN SUFFERING,(ij During the last Persecution in Scotland, betweenthe^Years 1680 and 1688.I They wandered about in sheep.skins, and goat-skins, in densul and caves of the earth, afflicted and tormented.—Heb. xi. 37.Their constancy in torture and in death.These on Tradition’s tongue still live, these shallOn History’s honest page be pictured brightTo latest times.Grahame’s Sabbath.STIRLING:PRINTED BY WILLIAM MAC'NIE,And Sold Wholesale and Retail.1828.AN ACCOUNT OFJOHN BROWN.About a hundred and forty yea** ago, lived inthe district of Kyle, In Ayrshire, Jo«N Br®9vn,of Priesthiil, in the pat isfi of Muirkirk, on tFe bor¬ders of LanarkshireHis house, which stands to tm$;»day, is on thebrow of a hill, behind which rises an extensivetract of heath, mose, hags and rocks, some of whickcommand a. view of several counties. The house isof stone and lime, and is covered with heather. Ithad no grate ; the fire was burned on the floor; andhaving no openings in the wall, the smoke rose tar¬dily to the chimney top. Yet dark and smoky asit was, many had found it a little sanctuary ; notonlv lor refuge, but for God’s presence.Though simple in their habits and furniture, theinhabitants of |jbose wild districts were well inform¬ed, John Brown was only a boy when upwards ofthree hundred ministers were deposed, in one day,by Charles the II. 5 because they would nobsubmitto be lorded over by bishops. He of’*," describedthe distress that prevailed in the country on thatoccasion ; and the anguish and weeping throughoutthe churches on the sabbath their ministers preach¬ed their farewell sermons. It was heart-rending to »■part with such men, so remarkable for grace, asthe fruits of their ministry were every where con¬spicuous. You scarce could lodge in a bouse where<jod was not worshipped. Iniquity, ashamed, hidits bend. But what a dreadful reverse was felt,when Prelacy was introduced by arbitrary means.—3It was like King Saul’s change, a . bad .spirit aftera good.It is something remarkable, th»t every time, thatPrelacy was established in Scotland, it was accom¬panied with persecution of the Church, taking awaythe rights of the people, and degeneracy in themoral character of the nation. The disciplineof the Presbyterians was too strict for the king andhis counsellors. The bishops were ambitious, andtheir curates were the dregs of society, ignorant| and wicked. Many of the bishops had sworn, alongwith the king and his nobles, to sppport the churchtthey had overturned. “ It was no wonder thoughthey were regarded as coming in with perjury writ¬ten on their foreheads j where holiness to the Lorihad formerly been.’’ The consequence was, thatthe churches were deserted, and the ministers taughtthem from house to house. This the bishops couldnot bear', and re-enacted laws against them. Thelaws against non-conformity, says a writer of thatage, were so extraordinary, and savoured so muchof a spirit of persecution, were in themselves sounjust, and in some things so unnatural, that nonecan wonder though they sometimes drove the poorpeople to desperation. “ They suffered extremitiesthat cannot be described, from hunger, nakedness,and the severity of the weather, lying in dampcaves, without covering, fire or food. None dnrstharbour or relieve them upon the pain of death.”The heathen may rage, and princes may combine,‘‘'I to plot againtit the Lord and bis annointed, saying.Let us asunder break their hands, and cast theiri cords from us. Fie that sitteth in the heavens shall1 laugh : The Lord shall have them in dcrisien.| The wrath of men shall praise him.The whirlwind of persecution carried t|ie seeds1, cf salvation where the influence of the Heforaation1 had not reached, 'i he Scottish border, proverbialIt for freebooters or robbers, felt the divine effects of4the banished ministers. They were there harbouredwithout fear or dread of laws, and kindly enter¬tained, The inhabitants of the heath-covered moors,and the distant isles of the sea were made glad, andblossomed as the rose. Thus, the scattering of theministers made new inroads upon Satan’s kingdom.The gospel flourished, though driven from templesmade with hands. Many date their conversion fromthe glad tidings they heard in these wilds, sayingwith the Psalmist. Lo ! we heard of thee at Eph-ratah, we found thee in the field of the wood.It was from these banished ministers that JohnBrown received his superior education. He wasintended for the church, had not an uncommon dif¬ficulty of expressing his sentiments to strangersprevented him from prosecuting his studies. Butwhat was strange, in prayer he was gifted in anextraordinary measure. In such scriptural languagedid he pour forth hi. soul, and at the same timewith such variety, fluency and affection, that heappealed like one superhuman. Many have a giftot' prayer whose lives bespeak them far from thekingdom of heaven. Such was not Priesthill. Hisactions with men were just and judicious j so muchso, that he was intrusted, when a very young man,with the produce of the neighbouring shepherds, tocarry to market, and dispose of, and bring backwhat they required in return. In this capacity, hegot the name of the Christian Carrier j and wasoften the first that brought them tidings of the mis¬chief that was framed by law against the Presby¬terians.He was merely a youth at the rising of Pentland ;and not having been either at the battle of Drum-clog or Botbwell, be could evade with ease the in-snsring questions that every traveller was requiredto answer : Uy which means he passed to and forunmolested ; although he did not attend the curateof Moirkirk, who was a silly, ea«y creatine, and ,5{lid not make So many complaints of hU parishion¬ers as some did : nor was he like bis brother curateof Bkntyre, who, one Sabbath, just as he rose topronounce the blessing, exclaimed, Devil nor aneo’ you see beltane !’’ At which his congregation‘ were panic-struck, thinking they were betrayed intothe hands of the Highland Host, then ravaging thecountry ; but were relieved of their fears by his nextbawling out, with an oath, to the door-keeper,“Jamie, rin an’ a sorrow to you, an' put thaesheep out o’ my kail yard.*’ This was nothing tothe scandalous lives of others, who were guilty ofsuch things as are not even to he named.—It wasimpossible the well-informed people of Scotlandcould hear such men, setting their unscriptural will-worship aside.John Brown’s good education was not lost. Tocounteract the bad example of the wicked, who now- walked on every side, since vile men were in high;.l place, every Monday night be met with some youngt persons, and instructed them from the Bible andu the Confession of Faith. In summer, they assem-»|| bled in a sheep-bugbt ; and in winter, they formedi i a circle wide around a large, lire of peats and candle4 coal, that blazed in the middle of the spence floor,id John Brown was not alone in this good work, Davidni and William Steel were help-mates.It was about the year 1680, that Priesthill gotsj acquainted with Isabell Weir, in the parish of'Sorn.She was a very superiour woman, though herdispo-“ sition was the very reverse of his. She was livelyand humorous, and could cheer up his grave coun¬tenance, till he Was as animated as herself: at oth¬er times, she would sit and listen to the good senseit of his conversation with the simplicity of a child.i*he saw him often, for he had frequently businessto transact with her father, when he passed to andfrom Ayr They often talked of Z on’s trouble*-,and, what was remarkable, when he sought her in6■ Marriage, be told her he felt a forbodtng in hismind, that he would one day be called to seal theChurch's testimony with his blood. If it should beso, she nobly answered, through affliction and deathI will be your eornfort. The Lard has promisedme grace, and he will give you glory.After this, the indulged ministers had gone sofar in the course of detection, that the more consci¬entious sulTerers had none they could hear, after thedeath of Cameron and Cargi!. They resolved toform themselves into societies to nteet quarterly, ofmembers delegated from their weekly prayer-meet¬ings. The second of these quarterly meetings tookplifce at Priesthill, February; IGS^, ‘where, theymade a contribution to send a young man to Hol¬land, to be licensed as a preacher to them. The fruitsof this brought forwarded Mr Renwick, of gloriousmemory. And these meetings, for no other endthan to enjoy the liberty of serving God, free fromthe impositions of men, were counted seditious andthe members punished with death. What a dread-_ ful state was Scotland in then, whem God’s peoplewere counted her enemies.About two months after this, Priesthill was mar¬ried by Mr. Peden, who happened to be in Kylebaptizing children. The marriage took place in aglen, near the house. When Isabell and her com¬pany arrived at the spot, they were surprised at theassembly gathered. Mr. Peden welcomed her, andsaid, these are to be witnesses of your vows. Theyare all friends, and have come at the risk of theirlives to hear God s word, and to couatenance hisordinance of marriage. After all was over, Mr.Peden took Isabell aside and said, “ You have gota good husband, value him highly ; keep linen fora winding-sheet beside you ; for in a day when youleast expect it, thy master will be taken from thybead. In him the image of our Lord and Saviouris tee Visible to pass unnoticed, by those who drive/> /the chariot wheela of persecution through the breadthand length of bleeding Scotland. But fear not, thoushalt be comforted.”John Brown had, by a former wife, a little girlabout five years of s;ge, who, on the morning af a rhis marriage, lifted the latch of the spence door,and finding Isabell'alone, said, while she coveredher face shily with her arm, ‘ They say you aremy mother “ What if L should be your mother ?”replied Isabell. “ Naetbing, but if I thought yewere my mother, I- would like to come in aside ye, .awee,” said Jennie, with artless simplicity. “ t hopeI will be your mother, my bairn, and that Godwill give me grace to be so, and that vou will be acomfort to are and your father. ’ And she provedso. When but a child she, was a help and pleasureto them : She would watch her father‘s return,and as soon as she saw his pack horse at a distance,coming along the bent, she would announce thejoyful tidings. Then the gudewife hasted, andmade ready the milk porridge, i*ad them dished,covered with a clean cloth, and warm water, towash his weary feet, a blazing fire, a clean hearth,and she and Janet would go out ami welcome himhome, and help him off with his horse’s load.The domestic peace and comfort of Priesthil! areta'ked of to this day ; and many anecdotes are toldand one among the rest, that illustiates the pre¬cept of hospitality to strangers, for thereby somehave entertained angels unawares. The second year-after his'marriage, one night in the beginning ofwinter, John Brown had gone to a neighbour’shouse. The family at home were preparing thewool of their flocks for hodden greyr cloth, to sellat Lowrie’s fair in Hamilton. The shepherd card¬ed the black and white wool together, for the wo¬men to spin: Janet and the herd boy were teasinglor the carder: The gudewife sat nursing her firstborn son at one side ol the lire ; when the dog, which4xI;8lay at full kngtii at the other, started up, and ranto the door, barking at the approach of a stranger.Isabel! thought it would he her husband returned,and was about, to rise ta meet him. Janet and theherd were almost as soon at the door as the dog,and calling to him, “ Whisht, Collie, whisht, yemu’na speak to the unco man.-’ The herd caughtthe dog in his arms, and returned with him into thehouse, while Janet followed, leading a stranger, firstlooking to her mother for encouragement, and thento her guest. She led him to her lather’s chair witha courtesy that seemed to give ri'e to strong emo¬tions in his heart.The stranger was young in y(ars,'of a little sta¬ture, and line fair countenance, but he was pa'ewith fatigue and sickness. His shoes were worn out;a shepherd’s plaid hung round him, seemingly fordisguise, for by bis dress and speech he seemed ofa soperionr rank. The gudewife dif} not know whe¬ther she should welcome him as a sufferer, or con¬sider him as a spy ; so she lulled her boy to sleep,bv singing a verse of an old song.While the gudewife sang, the stranger's facebrightened up, and he more cheerfully accepted thechild’s endearing attentions, who placed him in thewarmest corner, helped him elf with his dreepingplaid, imitating all the kind offices she had seenher mother perform to her father, to the no smallamusement of the rest of the family. On the stran¬ger it had a different effect. He burst into tears,and cried, “ May the blessing of him that is readyto perish rest upon you, mv dear bairn. SurelyGod has heard my crv, and provided me a place torest my head for a night. O that f had in the wil.derness a lodging-place of wavfaring men, that Imight leave my people and go from them ; for theybe an assembly of treacherous men. ’Just as he bad finished, John Hrown entered. Hegazed at him, and with great deference bade himwelcome to hU house. ‘ Do you know me ?’ saidthe stranger. I think I do, said John Brown. Itwas in this honse that the societies met that contri¬buted to send you to Holland, and now I fear theyhave not received you, at least some of them, asthey ought. ‘ Their reproach has not broken myheart,* said Mr. Renwick, for it was he, thoughhe was not named before the family, ‘ but the ex¬cessive travelling, night wanderings, unseasonablesleep, frequent preaching in all weathers, especiallyin the night, has so debilitated me, that I am unfitoften for my work. The reproach of those whocalled me. to the ministry, I look upon as a deviceof the enemy to step the Lord’s work : but blessedbe his grace that has kept me from mixing angeror scorn of them with my sorrow. Some have de¬clared, that I will never be honoured of the Lordto do his poor remnant good. But one thing Iknow, and may say, that the Lord has done megood. Oh ! let none fea. a suffering lot. Enemiesthink themselves satisfied that we are put to wanderin mosses, and upon the mountains ; but evenamidst the storms of these last two nights, I cannotexpress what sweet times I have had, when I hadno covering but the dark curtains of night. Yea,in the silent watch, my mind was led out to admirethe deep and inexpressible ocean of joy, wherein thewhole family of heaven swim. Each star led meto wonder what he must be who is the Star of Ja¬cob, of whom all stars borrow their shining. In¬deed, if l may term it, I am much obliged to ene¬mies, they have covered me many a table in thewilderness, and have made me many friends where1 never expected them.’When he ceased speaking, every one of the fa¬mily strove to do him some kindness. He remain¬ed another night with them, and was greatly bet¬tered in his liialth. In those days, hospitality waswith many what it ought to be, purely exer-10cised for God’s glory, and without display of gran-dour. The motives were like silver tried ; it wasat the risk of all, even life. Hence, the joy ofsuch pure intercourse was sweet beyond descrip¬tion. As iron sbarpeneth iron, so doth the face ofman his friend. Renwick and Priesthill talked ofthe sufferings of the church, her testimony, her co¬venanted cause, and her ultimate triumph. Yes,they had more comfort in the faith that Christwould one day be head over fill tilings, King ofkings, and lord of lords, than the wicked have,'when corn and wine do most abound.Mr. Ml Ward, who was some time minister of theTron Church, Glasgow, wrote a Join* letter fromHolland to the sufferers, confluding with these re¬markable words : ‘ Though all the powers on tfartlishould combine to settle the Supremacy on the headof a mortal, the immortal God shall, with the om¬nipotent power of his arm, shake the usurper out ofhis seat, an4 settle the throne of his annointed uponthe ruins of his adversaries. Hath Christ boughthis crown and sceptre with his blood ? And hath hesuch a right and title to it ? And hath he all pow-,.tr in heaven and in earth, for securing him the pos¬session of his purchase ? And shall any -mortal of¬fer to mount his throne, pull the crown from his |head, and clothe himself with the spoils of the Me¬diator's honour ! and keep himself in possession ofwhat he has taken from the Son of God! O vainattempt! What says the second Psalm? O letthem read their doom in verses 4th and 5th. Heshall dash them in pieces. His crown shall flour¬ish on hie own head, and his enemies will he clotheiTwith shame, who dared to take it by our laws,—They comforted themselves, in these hopes, andwith the assurance that the Lord would one day re¬turn to Scotland, and that the place ot his feetwould be glorious.Soon after Mr. Renwick left Priestbill, his fof-117 ■lowers and he published their Apologetic Declara¬tion. Mr. R»nwick was at first averse to the mea¬sure, but at last agreed.It was under such circumstances that the Apolo¬getic Declaration was published. In it may be seena spirit, still in Scotland, that dared to be free fromtyranny •, a spirit that animated the first Reformers ;tuat would, one day speak terrible things in righ¬teousness. 'Although this effort of freedom was like the childthreshing the mountain, and its consequence appar¬ently the same save, tbpt the church on this ac¬count suffered much ; the court-party making it apretence for sending more soldiers ou the country,particularly about Lanark, vainly thinking it wouldnever be well with them, till the south and west ofScotland were made a hunting field j and the betterto execute this, any soldier in the ranks had libertyto shoot all they thought suspicious; and it was notlong, till there was scarce a moss or mountain in thewest of Scotland but was flowered with martyrs.x he Society that met at Priesthill was soon brokenup. John M ilsqn, and John Smith, of Lesmahago,were shot by Colonel Buchan and the Laird of Lee,in February 1685. John Brown of Blackwood, inthe same parish, was shot in the beginning of Marchfollowing, by Lieutenant Murray, after the promiseof quarter. The pure snow, then on the ground,was stained with his blood. His corpse was buried,under cloud of night, near to the spot where he was.treacherously slain.Murray might murder such as godly Brown,But could not rob him of that glorious crown,•He now enjoys. His credit, not hjs crime,Was non-compliance with a wicked time.These lines are inscribed on the stone that covershis grave.Alter this, John Brown could not continue hisCi\business of Carrier, though he had no hand in theApologetic Declaration. His opinion and hisconduct was consistent with it, was, that he oughtto live as in an enemy’s country, and xuithout sin.Yet he was often obliged to betake to the high landsof Kyle, and of Lanarkshire, and to bear the chil¬ling cold of March and April winds, with the morebitter blast of persecution. Still, however, amidst ithe storms of nature, and of the political heavens,he had the rainbow of the cov#enant around his head,and enjoyed a freedom and pleasure that his ene- ,mies could not rob him of.On one of those days, when driven from his home,lie fled for refuge to a deep raviue, or moss bag,that bad been formed by the current of a water- ■spout, carrying "shrubs, soil, moss, and all beforei;, to the dale land beneath, leaving a frightfulchasm, amidst a vast field of heath Its deep mos- |sy sides made it inaccessible to strangers : only the ,neighbouring husbandmen knew where the brack-ens bid the rocks, whose shelvy sides conducted tothe bottom. In the sides of this natural alley, weredens and caves, sufficent to hide a large company, i1In one. of these Priesthill intended to spend the dayin prayer; and had begun to pour out his soul, inthe words of Lamentations iii 40, and downwards,when a sweet sound reached his ear, that seemed :to proceed from another part of the moss hag.—At first it was in a soft under voice, as atraid to bebeard, but soon rose above all fear, joined withothers ; an 1 the cxtii. Psalm was distinctly sung.‘ It is the hallowed sound of praising Cod ; and Iby some fellow-suflerers said John Brown, as liearose from his knees, to search them out. And tohis no small joy, found out David and WilliamSteel, his neighbours, and Joseph Wilson from Les-rnahago, in the clelt of a rock that jutted half-wayinto the ravine. David Steel had a narrow escapethe gay before this. Whtis just about •• begin tbwl13morning worship, one cried out, ‘ There is the ene¬my coming.’ He arose with the Bible under hisarm, and, without knowing what he was about,went into the byre, and laid himself down in anempty cow-stall, putting the Bible on his breast.His wife, equally unconscious, turned over hima heap of bedding, just as the soldiers entered theplace. They stabbed the straw where he lay, butthe Bible received the point of the sword, and theyleft the bouse without finding their victim. William{Steel's house was near at hand, and was also search¬ed. His wife had lucked him in her clothes-press.After they searchtit evert place without success,and had leit the house, a soldier returned, and saidto the gudewife, ‘ Mistress, next time you hide, hidebetter : part of your husband s coat is locked with¬out your press and with these words, he lelt her,to join his company. After he was gone, to heramazement, she found it as the soldier had said.It was to avoid such harassing scenes, that theyhad all fled to the ravine; and they found, to theirsweet experience, this dreary waste a Bethel : andin their harassings and hidings, as it was with Moseson the mount, nearest God when farthest from crea¬ture comforts. Ail day, they read Gods wordand prayed by turns : and during the dark and sil¬ent watches of the night, by turns they prayed a, dpraised.William Steel, who escaped death from the per¬secutors, and lived many years after the Revolu¬tion, said often, if ever there was a time in his lifethat he would wish to enjoy over again, it was thatin which he sutiered persecution ; especially thatday and night he spent'in the moss h?g. Tiiey allthought it would be their last meeting on parth.—He was the first that ascended from the ravine, tolook it the enemy were in view; and it being aclear morning;, and no person in sight, they all fol¬lowed, and were standing to consult on the separ*14nte patlis they w ould take borne, to prevent themiron) being seen, when they were .struck silent bya voice, sweeter than any thing they had ever heard,passing over the ravine, singing these words j—.Ob ! let the prisoners’ sighs ascendBefore thy sight on high jPreserve those by thy mighty power,That are ordained to die.And again, while they still stood speechless, ano¬ther voice sung, in tones of exultation ;—Though ye have lain among the pots,Like doves ^'e shall appear,Whose wings with silver, and with goldWhose feathers covered are.After standing for some time looking at one ano=ther, some of them thought they had left other wrr-shippers in the moss bag. Others thought that thesound echoed from a greater distance. “ Whoeveror wherever the words come from, we have littleconcern,” said John Brown ; “ one tiling we maytake comfort from ; they are God’s words to hischurch in affliction ; and that is our situation —Who lye among the pots? We scullions, black inthe opinion of our enemies. But God sees us notas man sees us, but compares us to doves ; doveson the wing, whose feathers of gold and silver arebest seen while they fly. It may be, we are on thewing to an eternal world, and this Bethel meetingis preparing us to mount up with wings like eagles. :If so, let us keep in mind, that we have nothing to Jboast of, but grace, grace ; untc it is our ackacw- ■,ledgeRient.” While he spoke, his countenance 1beamed the pleasantest ever they had seen ; and Jwhen he parted from them, they stood and looked ;|after him. It was the last time they saw him in ’fife, and the last time they heard him speak. “He Ihad a most uncommon talent in communicating in- -||' formation and consolation to others, and when liecame himself to be tried, he was not left a cast¬away.”Among the last of the needy adventures ofCharles lid s reign, who could swim through theblood of tin ir. more conscientious countrymen, tofavour*and emolument, was Graham of Claver-house. ** He was descended from the house ofMontrose, and was educated in France, the bestschool for dissolute manners and cruelty. He foughtagainst the French in the Low Countries, under thePrince of Orange, but being refused the commandof one of the Scottish regiments, then in the Dutchservice, he left it in disgust, and came over to Eng¬land. His dissolute manners and vivacity soon gothim notice at court, and the command of a partyof Highlanders.'’ His first appearance on the stageof Scotland's tragedy was in 1678, taking free•quarters for himself and men in the house of GilbertM'Michen, iln New Glenluce j and when they wentoff, beside what they -consumed, they took withthem three horses, worth ten pounds each. In everysucceeding appearance he may be marked as risingin cruelty and exaction.“ What Bishop Burnet says of Dalziel, may beaffirmed of Claverhouse with equal, or perhaps withgreater truth ; that he acted the Muscovite toogrossly, threatening to spit men, and roast themalive. He pleaded in excuse that terror was truemercy, if it put an end to, or prevented war."Charles being now dead, James, Duke of Fork,required such instruments to compel submission toIds system of cruelty. Having now thrown off the.mask, the suspicion of the Reformers, that Prelacywas to he handmaid to the introduction of Poperyin Scotland, was verified. For that purpose heenlarged the commission of Claverhouse, and creat¬ed him Viscount of Dundee ; and none w-as better16fitted to drive Jell Ruin s ‘ploughshire through everything that couid make lire desirable.“ The measure of fixing garrisons of soldiersthrough thn South and West counties, as if Scot¬land had been invaded by a foreign enemy, wasthe beginning of many cold-blooded murders inthe field. One of these garrisons was fixed at Les-mahago." Claverhouse came unexpectedly there,late on the last night of April, 1685, and havingheard of John Brown's piety and non-conformity,by six o’clock next morning he was at Priesthill.—A proof bow he thirsted after the blood of suchmen.John Brown, as usual, had arisen vntb the dawn,and had offered up the morning sacrifice. Kiswife often told how remarkably the Psalm sungthat morning, tended to gird up the loins of theirminds. It was Psalm xxvii. 1—4». The chapterread was John xvii, equally suitable ; and his pray¬ers were like those of one lost to the world, and en¬tered into the holy of hofies, through the rent vailof the Redeemer’s death.How good it is, when the Lord comes, to befound watching in the way of doing our duty, wasexperienced in no small measure by the family atPricsthill. Alter worship, the gudeman went tothe hill to prepare some peat ground : the servantswere also out, but at son.e distance, when Claver¬house surrounded the helpless mau with three troopsof dragoons, and brought him down to his ownhouse. He left his implements of industry withgreat composure, and walsed down before them <more like a leader than a captive.Meanwhile Janet had al-irmed her mother by tel- tling tier that a great many horsemen were coming >down the hill with her lather. *‘ The thing that f l|lfeared is come upon me : O give me grace for this I]1hour,” said her mother, h isiily taking up her boy, jiand wrapping him in htr pb.id, and taking Janet Jj'r17. A■ by the hand, she went out to meet her foes $ pray*ijing in secret as she went.The leisurely way of examining persons by law,i tn which there was some semblance of justice, wasi now departed from. Ciaverhouse simply ashedr John Brown, Why he did not attend the curatei and if he would pray for king James. It was re-i markable that, though a stammerer in speech to( (strangers, this morning he answered Ciaverhousefipistinctly. He said he acknowledged only Christ; as supreme head of the Church, and could not at-i end the curates, because they were placed therenpontrary to his law, and were mere creatures of the.hpisbops, and the bishops were creatures of the king ;b lind he being a Papist, and himself a Protestant^Presbyterian, who, along with all ranks in the na¬il:! on, had sworn and covenanted to God, that nojisPapist should bear rule over these lands ; so thatt lie neither could nor would pray for him. But. ifi he repented, and turned from his wicked way, heMwould acknowledge, obey; and pray for him.—-ni|tJpr>n hearing which Claverhouse. said, Go to yoursprayers, for you shall immediately die ; which heti|did in such a manner as filled the troops withmmazement. On his family, it had a different effect.iDFJis wife, who was great with child, with another1 in her arms, znd Janet at her side, stood while heisjprayed, “ that every covenanted blessing might beu|joured upon her and her children, born and un-"diorn, as one refreshed by the influence of the Hole!s|Spirit, when he comes down like rain upon theTiown grass, as showers upon the earth.”There is a light in the Christian’s life that dlscov-aiers the spots of the wicked, and torments them he-’iitfore the time. When Ciaverhouse could bear his►B^prayers no longer, and had succeeded, after inti r-j.rupting him twice, with the. most blasphemous lan-tjyuage, to raise him from his knees. John Brownijisaid to his wife—Isabel), this is the day I loin youON,I18of before we were married ; and added, with hisusual kindness, You see me summoned to appear,in a few minutes, before the court of heaven, ?s awitness in our Redeemer’s cause, against the Ruler «of Scotland. Are you willing that I should partfrom)on? Heartily willing, said she, in a voicethat spoke her regard for her husband, and her sub¬mission to the Lord, even when he called her tobow before his teiribie things. “ That is all I waitior : O death, where is thy sting ! O grave, wherewill be thy victory !” said John Brown, while hetenderly laid his arms around her, kissed her andhis little boy, and lastly Janet, saying to her, Mysweet bairn, give your band to God as your guide ;and be your mother’s comfort.—He could add nomore 5 a tide of tenderness overflowed his heart.— fAt last, he uttered these words, “ Blessed be thou,O Holy Spirit! that speaketh more comfort to myheart than the voice of my oppressors can speascterror to my ears !” Thus, when the Lord broughthis witness to be tried, he discovered such magna¬nimity, that, as he fell, he conquered his psrsecutors.If, in the Christian’s life, there is a light that dis- •}covers the spots of the wicked ; so, in the martyr’sheroic gtjj»ppling with death, theie was a heat thatscorched past enduring. It was doubtless under <jthis feeling that Claverhouse ordered six of his dra¬goons to shoot him, ere the last words were out ofhis mouth : but his prayers and conduct bad dis-’armed them from performing such a savage action. %They stood motionless. Fearing for their mutiny,Claverhouse snatched a pistol from his own belt,and shot him through the head, .And while |his troops slunk from the awful scene, he, like abeast of prey that tramples and howls over a fallen ;victim, insulted the tender-hearted wife, while shegathered up the shattered bead, by taunting jeers :‘ What thinkest thou of thy husband now, woman.6 I ever thought mickle good of him,’ said she, |19eand now more than ever' 'e, seeing her conr-i age, said, ‘ It were but justice to lay thee beside; him.’ She replied, * If ye were permitted, I doubtii not your cruelty could go that length ; but how” will ye answer for this morning's work.’ Wijh, a countenance that belied his words, he answered,‘ To men I can be answerable, and as for God, Iwill take him in my own band#.'. Thus saying, hehastily put spurs to bis borse, and left her with thecorpse. She tied up bis bead with her napkin,composed his body, covered it with her plaid, andwhen she had nothing further to do or contend{with, she sat down on the ground, drew her child¬ren to her, and wept over her mangled husband.But think not, reader, she was miserable ; it islonly when we have brought on. ourselves our afflic¬tions, that we are miserable under them. Nor thinkthat she was alone. Are not angels ministeringfispirits to believers in their troubles? And being[spirits they are well fitted for the service: Theymean reach the spirit with healing on their wings.—il'Tliey soothe, they comfort the afflicted widow IThere are also kindred spirits with angels, here onliearth, in whom the Most High God puts his Spirit,to speak a word in season to the weary soul.The mourner of Priesthill did not long wantlifriends. The report of the foul deed circulatedrapidly, creating dismay and ubhorence. Whonow could think themselves safe, when John Brownwas thus treated, who was not otherwise obnoxious!o government than in not attending the curate, andic several miles distant? The first who arrived onhe spot was David Steel's wife, one well Sited to;omfort in the most trying dispensation. She ranto the group, and throwing her arms aroundiheniy saluted Isabell thus, ‘ Wow woman ! andhas your master been taken from your head thisJlay ? and has he won the martyr’s crown ; and lias■* taken you and your children under his otvit20ears, saying, I will be a husband to the widow, anda father to the fatherless ? No wonder though yeare overcome and astonished at his doings ” Thissalutation aroused and strengthened the widow.She remembered the words of Mr. Peden, and shearose from the ground to search out the linen, hehad warned her to prepare. About this time DavidSteel and William Steel, with his wife, arrived andassisted fsabell to bring in and wiap up the preciousdust. All was done, while the silence of deathreigned over the household.After breakfast, David Steel took the Bible, and,in the ordinary course ot the family, began the.worship of God by singing part of the consolatorypsalm that remained unsung in the morning :—andiollowed also the footsteps of his friend by readingthe xviith chapter of John. Isabell received withcomposure her*visitors, many of whom came at therisk of their lives to condole wit!) her.As was said of the protomartvr Stephen, devoutmen carried him to his burial, in like manner wasJohn Brown, for literally God’s hidden ones carriedhim forth, and laid him in his grave, on the veryspot where he fell. And as the disciples, afterthey had seen the Lord ascend, returned unto Jeru¬salem rejoicing, in like manner did the company atPriesthill rejoice, and had their ‘ song in the night.’Every writer of that age, among the sel'erers,hears witness bow wonderfully they who sufferedwere borne up, as on eagle's wings, above theworld’s scorn and hatred. Ask all the letters writ¬ten by Rutherford and others, down to those writ¬ten by Sir R. Hamilton. A-»k the dying testimo¬nies, from Artryle and Guthrie to Renwick. Theywould fill volumes, and establish the truth, thatone like unto the Son of God walked with them inthe fiery furnace of affliction. Renwick writes onone occasion, to Sir R, Hamilton, after a tield-preaching, that ‘ if ever God could be tied to any21; rilace, I think it is to the muirs ami mountains of' Scotland.’ Rutherford many a time declares,Sweet, sweet is the cross ; and no wonder, wheni Christ bears both us and it.’ The sorrow ef therighteous is better far than the joys of the wicked,ithat are only like the crackling of thorns under a .pot, and worketh death. Had a miracle openedthe eyes of Claverhouse, as it did the eyes of theprophet's servant, to have seen John Brown’s soul1 [from ‘ insult springing,' at the moment his bodyfell a mangled corpse, he would have seen himselfi changed from a powerful oppressor, like Haman,.to a mean servant, only fit, as an instrument, toclothe the humble sitter at the king s gate in royali irobes, and a glorious crown, and usher him in toi ithe city Shushan, as a man whom the King delightsito honour. It was not granted that bis eyes shouldbe epened by a miracle, or by faith in God’s writ->ten testimony, to see himself as he really was ; buti God’s vicegerent, conscience, even in this life,<| speaks out awful things of righteousness and judg-■ i ment to ceme. ‘ tie afterwards acknowledged that:i John Brown’s prayer made such an impression onir bis spirit, that he could never get altogether wornI off, when he gave himself liberty to think.’ Thus,II * mischief haunts the violent man, and the bloodyII and deceitful man shall not live half bis days.’His maxim, of terror being true mercy, if it pve-jtf -vented or put an end to war, like every other at-if tempt to do evil that good may come out of ir,i[ proved fallacious, and acting up to it was the meauli of bringing on the. Revolution of 16S8, and of1 ‘ banishing James Vll. from the thiene and heartsa of the people of Scotland.’ Claverhouse, for vari-p ous reasons, had no alternative than to follow thel; fortune of his benefactor. When he found a largeh majority in the Scotch Convention on the side- of■ William, he left Edinburgh with the determinationi «f exerting himself in the cause of J cnes, in the22field. Not long after this he appealed openly inarins at Inverness, and was successful at the battleof Killicrankie •, putting William’s army to flight;but while in the act of rasing himself on the saddle,anil waving with his arm pointing to guard the pass«f Killictankie, that his favourite maxim 4 no quar¬ter1 might be put into execution, Lo ! a musketball passed into his arm-pit, that proved fatal in afew hours after. His estate was made over to thehouse of Douglas, and his widow marrying to LordKilsyth, and returning to Holland, became, alongwith her children, the victim of a dreadful misfor¬tune. The house in which she resided at Utrecht,falling suddelny in and overwhelming the wholefamily, his name and titles became extinct.”The poor widow of Priesthil! and her childrendid inherit the earth, and had a name long afterthat of her oppressors was not—About forty yearsago, a gentleman riding to Edinburgh fell intoconversation with a respectable-looking countrywoman on the road, and learning that she was agrand-daughter of John Erown. he on that accountmade her ride behind him into the city. So muchwas the memory of the Christian Carrier respected.And what was a proof of the harmony of his family,she could not tell whether sh£ was of the first or thesecond wife’s children. None of them now resideat priestbill but their bouse stands, and,the broadflat stone that covers their father’s grave, is shewn,with this inscription ;In deatlfls «o)d bed, the dusty part here liesOf one who did the earth as dust despise ;Here in this place from earth be took departure }Now he has got the garland of the martyr.Butchered by Clavers and his bloody band,Raging most rav'nously o'er ail the land.Only for owning Christ's supremacy,Wickedly wrong’d by encroaching tyranny.23j Nothing how near so ever he to good« Esteem’d, nor dear for any truth his Wood.Tt has not been exactly ascertait <1 how long thei ;?idow lived after her husband, nor is the presentmtaite of their prosterity known to the winter ; but it: s certain, that eight months after her husband'sJ ieatb, Isabel! mingled her tears with those of David‘ steel’s wife, and had her wounds opened afresh byhat worthy man’s untimely end.I The enemy came on a sudden to Enmmerheadt inhere he lived, and while he was flying before then!j a flow moss, where no trooper could follow,' iey called him back, assuring him that they didlot intend his hurt. In confidence of which, be sat' 'own on a little knoll, on which a kiln stood, to; itok at the soldiers passing, and while doing so,ii'iUieutenant Crichton, who commanded the troop,nd who came up in the rear; shot him throughihe heart, after that he had been tieacherously pro-lised safety.His wife saw him all the while, and was the firstat got to the bloody corpse, and white she gentlyressed down the eyelids on the fixed face, she saidith great composure, ‘ The archers have shot atee, but they could not reach thy soul—it has es-aped like a dove, far away, and is at rest.’ Sheion, clapping her hands together and looking updliith an eye that pierced the heavens, said, ‘ Lordlive strength unto thine handmaid, that will proveshe has waitefl/for thee even in the way of thy judg*repents.’I David Steel lies buried in Lesmahago church-t.ard. On his grave is a stone with this epitaph,—David a shepherd first, and tlisnAdvanced to be king of men.Had of graces in this quarter,This heir, a waad’rerj now a martyr !24'Who for his constancy and zeal,Still to the back did prove good steel,Who lor Christ’s royal truth and laws,And for the covenanted causeOf Scotland’s famous Reformation ;Declining tyrants' usurpation.By cruel Crichton murder'd lies,Whose blood to heaven for vengeance cries.Joseph Wilson who was also under hiding in themoss hag with John Brown, was met by a party ofnorth Highlanders in a moss, near the water ofKyle, when he and other four men were returningfrom hearing Mr. Renwick preach ; and on theirconlession where they had been, rvere all shot with¬out further trial. Thus their blood was mixed withtheir sacrifice They were not granted even timeto commit their souls to God : but their souls’safety did not depend upon their prayers,, but ontheir praying head.William Steel alone, of those friends, survivedthe persecution period, and lived alter the Revolu¬tion to tell his wonderful escapes.“ The memory of the most glorious scenes of ac¬tion, and the most dismal scenes of suffering Uralthe thOicb of Scotland has passed threugh, havenot been left buried in their own ashes.’ Her firstReformers have been nobly drawn forth from therubbish of lies and prejudice, that had long lainheaped upon their memories. And may not theless conspicuous stones tiiat compose the lair build¬ing, be gathered cut with this warrant.—The righteous shall be held in everlasting remembrance.finis.