< AND THETHREE WISHES.mv i n u a a o m .i H*i tfiHAwa wcuaYam am >.eanaiw aaniiT.:WOt)'1M0.sflSJJBBaooa sun am nriTKini  ^. .^'.iSTORYOFPRINCE LUPINANDTHE WHITE CAT.A certain king had three sons, all hand¬some, brave, and fine young gentlemen;but being suspicious that they had formed adesign to deprive him of his crown, hethought of a method to divert them fromtheir intended purpose. Having called themone day into his closet, he spoke to them asfollows :—u My sons, I am now come to agreat age, and cannot apply myself to publicalfairs with so much care as formerly; there¬fore I intend to resign my crown to one ofyou: but, as it is but right to require someproof of your abilities, in order to determinewhich is the most worthy of so valuable apresent, I propose and promise, that he whoshall bring me the most beautiful little dogshall immediately take possession of mythrone.”4The three princes readily agreed to thisproposal, each concluding himself mostlikely to succeed in fulfilling this extraordin¬ary request. After taking leave of the kingthey set out, with orders to return that daytwelvemonth with dogs. Each took a dif- ,ferent road, without any attendants; butwe shall leave the two eldest at present, andconfine our story to the young'est.This accomplished prince, as he was moredesirous to show his duty to his father thanto become a king, was more fortunate in hisundertaking than either of the others. Onenight, having travelled till it was very late,and being overtaken by a storm in a largeforest,'he discovered a light at a distance,and, pursuing his journey with all speed, hearrived at a most stately castle, the gates ofwhich were of massy gold, and the walls offine china, whereon were painted the histor¬ies of all the fairies that ever appeared onearth. At the door hung a chain of dia¬monds, with a deer’s foot at the end; onpulling which, the prince heard a bell of sopleasing a sound, that he concluded it to bemade of gold or silver. Immediately thedoor opened, and twelve hands, each holdinga flambeau, gently conducted him into a haol ■of motherof-pearl, and from thence througha vast variety of chambers, all richly cover¬ed with paintings and jewels. The beauty5•of these ornaments was greatly heightenedby a number of lights, that hung from theceiling in glass sconces of exquisite work¬manship.After having passed through sixty apart¬ments, a fine easy chair moved towards himof its own accord; the fire lighted itself, andthe hands pulled olf his clothes, which hadbeen drenched in the storm, and dressed himi in others so extraordinarily fine and rich,that it dazzled his sight to behold himself.While the prince was in the utmost aston¬ishment at this uncommon adventure, he saw: a multitude of cats enter the room, and seatthemselves on the bench. One held amusic-book, and some played on instruments,while others beat time. In the midst ofthis concert, a small figure came forward ina mourning veil, led by two cats in blackcloaks, and followed by a long train of cats,some with rats, and others with mice, intheir mouths. The young prince was so sur¬prised, that he had not power to move; whenthe little figure, lifting up its veil, discoveredthe prettiest white cat that ever was seen.“Prince,” said she, “be not afraid, butgive me your company with cheerfulness.It shall be the ambition of me and all mymewing attendants to give you pleasure.”On a signal given, supper was broughtin; but the princo at first declined eating,6tm th« Wliitfe Catj griesslKg1 the resifin, as-^Jsured him that there were no rats nor micqjin any thing that was set before him. Adithe prince was admiring this beautiful catJhe observed a small picture hanging upon*her foot. He asked her to show it himand how great was his surprise to see acharming young man very much resemblinajhimself! yet, observing the White Gat tcsigh, he was afraid at that time to satisfyhis curiosity concerning it, and so endeav¬oured to divert her by entertaining conver¬sation, in which he found her to be extremelysensible, and acquainted with every thingthat passed in the world. He slept everynight in an apartment hung with tapestrymade of the wings of butterflies, on a bedof the most delicious flowers, and every dayWas spent in the most delightful amusement.In this manner almost a year slipped awayInsensibly; and the prince entirely forgothis native home and the little dog he was to icarry to his father. But the White Cat jknew when he was to return ; and one day,as they were walking together in a grovenear the palace, u Do you remember, prince,” !said she, u the promise you made yourfather? Your brothers have already pro¬cured some curious little dogs, and there re¬main but three days for you to find onemere beautiful, or lose a kingdom.” These< 7*vor* Ts awoke the prince from liis dream ofpleasure. u Alas !” cried he, i{ what haveI been doing ? My honour is lost for ever.”—uDo not afflict yourself,” said the WhiteCat; (t I will find a horse that will carryyou home in less than twelve hours. Andas for the little dog, take this acorn, in whichthere is one: put it to your ear, and youwill hear it bark.” The prince did so, and,transported with pleasure, thanked her athousand times. Bidding her farewell, helmounted the wooden horse, and arrived athis father’s palace just as his brothers enter¬ed the courtyard. He ran to embrace them,and all three went together to the king.—The two eldest presented their dogs, whichwere so equally beautiful, that it was impos¬sible to know in whose favour to determine.But the youngest soon put an end to thedebate; for, pulling the acorn out of hispocket and opening it, they saw a little doglying on cotton, so small that it might gothrough a ring; it was of a mixture otcolours, and its ears reached the ground.The king was convinced that nothing couldbe met with so beautiful; but, being unwil¬ling yet to part with his crown, he told hischildren, that he must make a further trialof their love and diligence before he perform¬ed his promise: they must take anothersyear to find out a web of cloth fine enough iito go through the eye of a small needle. iThis request, though unjust, they thought j:it best to comply with: and our princemounted his wooden horse, and returned withspeed to his White Cat, on which alone hedepended for assistance. He found her laidon a quilt of white satin. As soon as shesaw him, she expressed the utmost joy;while the prince caressed her in the mosttender manner, and told her the successof his journey. The White Cat redoubledher efforts to render the prince more happy,if possible, than he had been before. Hewished for nothing but the hands whichbrought it to him; and the second year rolledaway so fast, that the prince would againhave forgot his orders, had not the WhiteCat reminded him thereof: “But makeyourself perfectly easy concerning the web,”said she, “for I have one wonderfully fine.Take this walnut; be sure to "crack it inyour father’s presence, and you will find in itsuch a web as )rou want.”The prince thanked her in tho mostgrateful manner; and was presently carriedby the wooden horse to his father’s palace,where his brothers had got before him.They pulled out their webs, which were ex¬ceeding fine, and would go through,the eyeof a large needlej but could not be made topass through the eye of a small one. Theking was going to avail himself of thispretext, when the youngest prince unex¬pectedly entered, and produced a walnut,which he cracked. Finding only a kernelof wax, the king and all present ridiculedhim for thinking to find a web of cloth in anut. However, he broke the kernel, andsaw in it a corn of wheat, and in that agrain of mil let-seed: he then opened themillet-seed, and, to the utter astonishmentand confusion of all the beholders, drew outa web of cloth four hundred yards long.The needle was brought, and the web wasput through the eye of it five or six timeswith the greatest ease.The king fetched a deep sigh, and turn¬ing towards his sons, u My children,” saidhe, “I am still desirous of putting you toa new trial: go for another year; and hethat brings me the most beautiful damsel,shall marry her and be crowned king; andI swear most solemnly, that I will requireno other proof of your filial affection anddiscretion.” Our sweet prince heard thistyrannic command without a murmur; and,remounting his courser, flew to his dearWhite Cat; which, knowing the moment,of his return, was prepared to receive him inthe golden gallery. u Prince,” said she,uthe king I find, has refused you the crown;10however, I hope you will take care to deserveit, and I will provide you with a beautifuldamsel who will gain the prize.”The prince grew more and more fond ofher; and in her abode enjoyed every mag¬nificent entertainment that fancy couldinvent.—When this last year was near ex¬pired, the White Cat thus addressed him:‘{If you are sensible of the favours I haveconferred upon you, now is the time to makeme amends. I)o not hesitate, but cut offmy head and tail, and throw them into thefire.” Tears started from the prince’s eyesat this request, and he was going severaltimes to refuse; but the White Cat insistedupon it so earnestly, that at last, with r>:trembling hand, he chopped off her headand tail, and threw them according- to orderinto the fire. In an instant the body of thoWhite Cat was changed into the most beau¬tiful lady that ever was seen, and imme¬diately a great number of gentlemen andladies, holding their cats’ skins over theirshoulders, came and fell prostrate at her feet,crying, 11 Long live our gracious queen !How great is our joy to see her once morein her natural shape!” The prince wasglad beyond description to behold so charm¬ing a creature, but could not help express¬ing an earnest desire to know the cause ofthis surprising transformation. 11 Restrain*1your curiosity,” says the lovely queen,“ till we arive at your father’s court, where.11 am now ready to accompany you, andii where I will relate my unheard-of mis¬fortunes. Come, see, the carriage waits.”So saying, she gave her hand to the prince,who led her into a chariot, the inside of which1 was fine velvet, set with brilliants, the out-i side gold; and the horses’ harness was made; of emeralds.Away they flew, and were presently at! the gates of the king’s palace, where the: two eldest princes were already arrived withI their two princesses, in fine calashes of blue,i embossed wxith gold. The courtiers crowdedI to present these three illustrious couples toI the king. The two eldest princes with theirI ladies advanced first, and were received verygraciously by the monarch, who declaredthey had brought him two such beauties,that he knew not to which he should giveI the preference; but the moment the young-| est approached with his queen, both full ofj grace and dignity, the king cried out ini ecstacy, “ This is the incomparable beauty,• whose worth and excellence claims and de-i serves my crown !”—u I came not to rob' you of your crown,” answered the discreeti queen; u I was born heiress to six kingdoms.) Give me leave to present one of them to you,a and one to each of your gong; for which IISaak no other return than this amiable prince:in marriage.”The king and all the court were strucldwith joy at this declaration; and the nup4<tials were celebrated the same day with great*magnificence. Never were a pah' more;happy; and the young prince, to the lastmoment of his life, blessed the accident thatled him to the abode of the sweet White.Cat.THE YELLOW DWARF.f —=>©eiOi©©«=^-There was once a queen, who, though sheI had born many children, had but one daugh-I ter left alive, of whom she was fond to anexcess, humouring and indulging her in allher ways and wishes. This princess was': exceedingly beautiful, so that she was calledi All-Fair, and had twenty kings courting; her at one time. Her mother, being advan-! ced in years, would fain have had her mar-t ried and settled before she died, but no: entreaties could prevail; whereupon she de-1 termined to go to the Desert Fairy to askI ad vice concerning her stuborn daughter.Now, this fairy being guarded by two• sfierce lions, the queen made a cake of millet,i-sugarcandy, and crocodiles’ eggs, in orderI to appease their fury and pass by them; andhaving thus provided herself, she set outAfter traveling some time, she found herself weary, and, lying down under a tree?;fell asleep. When she awoke, she heard thelions which guarded the fairy roaring, uponwhich, looking for her cake, she found itr was gone. This threw her into the utmost> agony, net knowing how t save herself14,from being1 devoured by them; when, hear¬ing somebody cry, “Hem! hem!” she'lifted up her eyes, and beheld a little yellowman on a tree, half a yard high, pickingind eating oranges.“ Ah ! queen,” said the Yellow Dwarf,(for so he was called on account of his com,plexion, and the orang'e-tree he lived in),“how will you escape the lions? There isbut one way : I know what business broughtyou Here! promise me your daughter inmarriage, and I will save you,” The queenthought she could not but look upon so,frightful a figure with horror, yet was forcedto consent; whereupon she instantly foundherself in her own palace, and all thathad passed seemed only as a dream; never¬theless, she was so thoroughly persuadedof the reality of it, that she became melan¬choly.The young princess being unable to learnthe cause of her dejection, resolved to go.and inquire of the•ordingly, havingions, she also setJiappened that All-Fair took exactly thesame rout her mother had done before her;and coming* to the fatal tree, which wasloaded with oranges, she had a mind to picksome! therefore, setting down her basketwherein she carried the cake, she plentifullyDesert Fairy; and, acprepared a cake for the'oft’ for her abode. It15indulged herself. The lions now began toroar, when All-Fair, looking for her cake,was thrown into the utmost trouble on find¬ing it gone. As she was lamenting herdeplorable situation, the Yellow Dwarf pre¬sented himself to her with these words :—u Lovely princess, dry up your tears, andhear what I am going to say: You neednot proceed to the Desert Fairy to know thereason of your mother’s indisposition, she isungenerous enough to repent of havingpromised you, her adorable daughter, to mein marriage.”—“How!” interrupted theprincess; “my mother promised me to youin marriage! you! such a frigh* as you !”Naj, none of your scoffs,” returned theYellow Dwarf, “ I wish you not to stir upmy anger : if you will promise to marry me,l will be the tenderest and most loving hus¬band in the world—if not, save yourselifrom the lions if you can.” In short, theprincess was forced to give her word thatshe would have him, but with such agonyof mind, that she fell into a swoom; andwhen she recovered, she found herself inher own bed, finely adorned with ribbons,and a ring of a single red hair so fastenedround her finger that it could not be got off.This adventure had the same effect uponA11-Fair as the former had upon her mother,grn ifttaoLoly*. wtuqh was scmarked^6and wondered at by the whole court. T1best way to divert her, they thought, wou|be to urge her to marry; which the prir}cess, who was now become less obstinate dthat point than formerly, consented to; antthinking that such a pigmy as the YelkrDwarf would not dare to contend with $gallent a person as the King of the Golde,Mines, she fixed upon this king for hehusband, who was exceedingly rich antpowerful, and loved her to distraction. Thmost superb preparations were made fothe nuptials, and the happy day was fixed:when, as they were proceeding to the ceremony, they saw moving towards them zbox, whereon sat an old woman remarkabhfor her ugliness.—u Hold queen and prin¬cess,” cried she, knitting her brows, u re'member the promises you both made to myfriend the Yellow Dwarf. I am the DesertFairy, and if All-Fair does not marry him,I swear by my coif, I will burn my crutch.”The queen and princess were struck motion¬less by this unexpected greeting of theFciiry; but the Prince of the Golden Mineswas exceedingly^ wroth; and, holding hissword to her throat, u Fly wretch !” saidhe, or thyr malice shall cost thee thy life.”No sooner had he uttered these words, thanthe top of the box flying off, out came th*Yellow Dwarf, mounted upon a large17Spanish cat, who placing himself betweenthe king and the fairy, uttered these words:—“ Rash youth, thy rage should be levelledat me, not at the Desert Fairy; I am thyrival, and claim her by promise, and a singlehair round her finefer.”1 his so enraged the king, that he criedout, contemptible creature! wert thou worthyof notice, I would sacrifice thee tor thy pre¬sumption.” W hereupon the Yellow Dwarfclapping spurs to his cat, and drawing ailarge cutlass, defied the king to combat; andfeo they went into the court-yard. The sunthen immediately turned red as blood, andit became dark: thunder and lightningfollowed, by the flashes whereof were per-peived to giants vomiting fire on each sidebf the Yellow Dwarf.The king behaved with such undauntedcourage as to give the Dwarf great per-|)lexity; but was dismayed, when he saw■die Desert Fairy, mounted on a wingedgriffin, with her head covered with snakes,strike the princess so heard with a lance,Ihat she fell into the queen’s arms all overvith blood. He left the combat to go toier relief; but the dwarf was to quick forlira, and, flying on his Spanish cat to the)aleony Avlierc she was, he took her fromiier mother’s arms, leaped with her uponthe top of the palace, and immediately^isappeared.As the king stood confused and astonishe*at this strange adventure, he suddenly founda mist before his eyes, and himself lifted uin the air by some extraordinary power: fothe Desert Fairy had fallen in love withim. To secure him for herself, thereforeshe carried him to a frightful cavern, hopinghe would there forg'et All-Fair, and trielmany artifices to complete her designs. Bufinding this scheme inefiectual, she resolveito carry him to a place altogether as pleasanjas the other was terrible; and according!]set him by herself in a chariot drawn Irswans. In passing through the air, he hatthe unspeakable surprise to see his adoretprincess in a castle of polished steel, leaningher head on one hand, and wiping away tintears with the other. She happened to lootup, and had the mortification to see the kingsitting by the fairy , who then, by her art.made herself appear extremely beautiful.Had not the king been sensible of the fairy’spower, he would certainly then have tried tcfree himself from her. At last they cameto a stately palace, fenced on one side bywalls of emeralds, and on the other by aboisterous sea.The king, by pretending to be in lovewith the fairy, obtained liberty to walk by-ij10himself on the shore; and, as he was oneday invoking the powers of the sea, he heard■ a voice, and presently after was surprisedwith the appearance of a Mermaid, which,; coming up with a pleasant smile, spokethese words:—uO King of the GoldenMines, I well know all that has passed inregard to you and the fair princess. Don’tsuspect this to be a contrivance of the fairy’sto try you, for I am an inveterate enemy*both to her and the Yellow dwarf; therefore,if you will have confidence in me, I willlend you my assistance to procure the releasenot only of yourself, but of All-Fair also.”The overjoyed king* promised to do whateverthe Mermaid bade him; whereupon, settinghim upon her tail, they sailed away on arolling sea.When they had sailed some time, “Now,”! said the Mermaid to the king, “we drewj near the place where your princess is kept: by the Yellow Dwarf. You will have manyenemies to fight before you can come to her;take, therefore, this sword, with which youmay overcome every thing, provided younever let it go out of your hand.” Theking returned her all the thanks that the; most grateful heart could suggest; and the, Mermaid landed and took leave of him,t promising him farther assistance when ne-* cessary.20The king boldly advanced, and meetinwith two terrible sphinxes, laid them deaat his feet with his sword. Next he attache1six dragons that opposed him, and despatch^them also. Then he met with four antwenty nymphs, with garlands of flowers,at sight of whom he stopped, being loath fdestroy so much beauty; when he heardvoice say, “Strike! strike! or you willlose your princess for ever!” upon which hethrew himself into the midst of them, andsoon dispersed them. He now came in viewof All-Fair, and, hastening to her, ex¬claimed, “ O my princess, behold yourfaithful lover!” But she, drawing back,replied, “Faithful lover! Did I not seeyou passing through the air with a beautifulnymph? Were you faithful then?” “Yes,”replied the king, “ I was. That was thedetested Desert Fairy, who was carryingme to a place where I must have languishedout all my days, had it not been for a kindMermaid, by whose assistance it is that Iam now come to release you.” So saying,he cast himself at her feet; but, catchinghold of her gown, unfortunately let go themagic sword; which the Yellow Dwarf nosooner discovered, than, leaping from behinda shrub where he had been concealed, he ranand seized it. By two cabalistical wordsh® then conjured up a couple of giants, who21'laid the king in irons. 11 Now,” said thedwarf, u my rival’s fate is in my ownhands; however, if he will consent to my"marriage, he shall have his life and liberty.”No,” said the king, “Idwarf, that he instantly stabbed him to theheart. The disconsolate princess, aggravatedto the last degree at such barbarity, thusvented her grief:—“ Thou hideous creature,isince entreaties could not avail thee, perhapsthou now reliest upon force; but thou shalthe disappointed, and thy brutal soul shallknow perpetual mortification from the mo¬ment I tell the I die for thee love I have forIthe King of the Golden Mines!” And soisaying, she sunk down upon his body, andexpired without a sigh.Thus ended the fate of these two faithfuldovers, which the Mermaid very much re-igretted; but, all her power lying in theis word, she could only change them into twoiipalmtrees; which, preserving a constantmutual affection for each other, caress andhmite their branches together.:on such terms;” whichTHE .THREE WISHES.There was once a man, not very rich, v/1had a very pretty woman to his wife. 0:|winter’s evening, as they sat by the firthey talked of the happiness of their neig|hours, who were richer than they. Said tfwife, “If it were in my power to have wtI wish, I should soon be happier than allthem.” “ So should I too,” said the hiband; “I wish we had fairies now, arthat one of them was kind enough to grame what I should ask.” At that insta:they saw a very beautiful lady in their roonho said to them, “I am a fairy; andpromise to grant to you the three first thingyou shall wish; but take care—after havin;wished for three things, I will not grant onwish further.” The fairy disappeared; anthe man and his wife were much perplexed“ For my own part, said the wife, “if;were left to my choice I know very wewhat I should wish for: I do not wish yetbut I think nothing is so good as to f>handsome, rich, and to be of great quality.’But the husband answered, “ With all thes«things one may be sick and fretful, and onemay die young : it would be much wiser t(wish for health, cheerfulness, and long life.’“ But to what purpose is long life with po-23verty ?” says the wife: 44 it would only pro*long your misery. In truth, the fairyshould have promised us a dozen of gifts,for there are at least a dozen things which Iwant.” That may he true,” said thehusband; “but let us take time; let usconsider till morning the three things whichare most necessary for us, and then wish.”“HI think all night,” said the wife;“meanwhile let us warm ourselves, for it isvery cold.” At the same time the wife tookthe tongs to mend the fire; and seeing therewere a great many coals thoroughly lighted,she said without thinking on it, “ Here’s anice fire; I wish we had a yard of blackpudding for our supper; we could dress iteasily.” She had hardly said these wrords,when down came tumbling thr< 1on your greedy guts with your black pud¬ding!” said the husband : “here’s a finewish indeed ! Now we have only two left;for my part I am so vexed, that I wish theblack pudding fast to the tip of your nose.”The man soon perceived he was sillier thanhis wife; for, at this second wish, up startsthe black pudding, and sticks so fast to thetip of the poor wife’s nose, there was nomeans to take it of. 14 Wretch that lam!”cried she; “you are a wicked man forwishing the pudding fast to my nose.” 44 Mychimney a yard of black pudding.24dear,’’answered the husband, u I row X did|not think of it; but what shall we do ? IIam about wishing for vast riches, and pro¬pose to make a golden case to hide the pud-'ding.” u Not at all,” answered the wife;“for I should kill myself, were I to livewith this pudding- dangling at my nose : be'persuaded, we have still one wish to make;leave it to me, or T shall instantly throwmyself oiit of the window.” With this sheran and opened the window; but the husband,who loved his wife, called out, “ Hold, mydear wife! I give you leave to wish for whatyou will.” “Well,” said the wife, “mywish is that this pudding may drop off.” Atthat instant the pudding dropped off; andthe wife, who did not want wit, said to herhusband; “ The fairy has imposed uponus; she was in the right; possibly we shouldhave been more unhappy with riches than we ,are at present. Believe me, friend, let uswish for nothing,' and take tilings as it shallplease God to send them: in the mean time.,let us sUp upon our pudding, since that’s allthat remains to us of our wishes.” The .husband thought his wife judged right;they supped merrily, and never gave them¬selves further trouble about the things whichthey had designed to wish for.FINIS.