THEBlythfome Bridal;OR, THELafs wi’ the Gowden Hair.To v.'hich are added,A NEW TOUCH on the TIMES.LOVE AND LIE E.. *VTHIS IS NO MINE AINU O U S E.GLASGOW,Primed by J & M. KOBE R TS O N,S.iltniarket, 1799.( * )* Bstrss vs^ksss swisd cat as*'ra-s>w e?»;i©s***(^‘,*,f*)V(®)%*{»)i"* tU* PvSi **,*. £»- US S»1V B83; »£SS £*4 'JTJO 4^ j^i 4*T[?E BLYTIISOME BRIDAL.’ST! Y lfjt us a* (o the Bridal,JT1 for there will be lilting there.Lor Jockey’s to be nurryM to Maggy,the lafs wi the gouden hair.Ard there will he langkai! and porrajgc,and bannocks o’ bath y-nital:And there will he good fa t herring,to rdiGi a cog o’ good ale.Fy let us a’ to the Bridal &c.And there will be Sandy the footer,and Will wi* the inetkle rriou’,And there will be I'am the b/uter,with Andrew the tinker I trow :And there will.be bow’d legged Robbie,with thutnblefs Saty’s gcodman ;And there will be blu"*cheeked Dowbie,and Lowiie the laird o’ the lank. Fy, &c.And there will be fow-libber Patie,and plucky-fac/ci Wat i’ the mill,(lapper-nos’d Patie and Gibbie,that wins in the brow o’ the hill;And there w ill be dialler Sibbie,wha in wi’ black Bdhe did mpol.With fuiveiing Lilly, and Libby,the lafs that Rands aft on the Rook &c»( 3 'IAnd Madge that was buckled to Steenie,and coft him grey breeks to his ari’e,Wha after was haugit for dealing,great mercy it happen’d na warfe;Ami there will be gieed G. only Janncrs,p and date v,i’ the lily-white leg,1 Wha gade to the fouth for manners, (ic.aad bang’d up her waine in Mons-Meg.I An.! there will be Judan Maclawrie,and blinking dait liarbara Made\Vi’ flae-lugged iharney-fto’d Lawrie,and fhangy-mou'd haiulcet Meg., And there will be happer-ars’d Nancy,and fairy-fac’d fiowrie by name,Vvir Madi'e, and fat-Vtppet Girfy,the lafs wi’ the gouden warns. Fy let.&c.-And there w ill be girn-again Gibbie,wi’ his glaiket wife Jenny iidl,And inifle-fhin’d Mungo Macapie,j the lad that was-fkippsr h'nnfell.Ta.-re lads and lades in pearling,will lead in the heart o’ the ha’,On fybews, and rifarts, and catlings,that are baith fodden and raw. Fyletj &c.And there will be fadges and brochan,- wi’ fouth o’ good gabbocks o’ Ikate,Powio-.vdy, and drummock, and crowdy,r and oaller nowt-feet in a plate.And there will be partans and buckles,and Wiiytcns, aikd fpeidings enew,J• ( 4 )Wi’ firg’d ^tecp-heads, and a baggif?,and fend bps to fun nil yt fpew. Fy let. &rc«An there will he lapperM-ftnik kebhocks,and lov.ens, and laris, and hsps,V/ i' fwats and wed Fraped paum hf.s,and brandy in floupri and in caps /And there wiif be meal-kail and cuitocka,• wi’ fkmk to lup till we rive.And reads to ronil on a brander,of deuka that were taken alive. Fy, Sec.Scrapt haddock?, v.ilks, doife and tangle,and a mill oi good fnifliing to prie ,Vv’h n weary with eating and drinking,we’ll rife up and dance till we die.Then iy let us a’ to the Bridal,for there will be lilting thereFor J ckey’s 'o be marryM to Maggy,the lafs wi' the goadep hair.A NEW roue4 ON THE TIMES.C'l E O RG E he is the mildeft King,y . riiat ever fat on Britain’s throne.Behold how vvif.ly he has ached,to his fubjefts every oneBut we’re cf a rtbeliious nature,and cur minds are ne’er content,L;k-wi!c\th£ me ft of our reflediontskre on the E tig and Parliament.There’s Qn'ucrrs, Kew-’ights, Indeperuiems,Methodifts, und S^adiers too,Thofe Minions and ninions,are they not a filthy crew,- .Thofe Kypocrhes the* live amongft us,our R-figion they defpife, _Empty fo is. without foundation,neither loyal, juft, nor wife.Our Churchmen they are little better,if the truth ;t were well known.They take the Ring for Britain’s head,but p;u of’s lav. they will not own.•Tu'. brotherly love’s gone from amongft us.neighbours they cannot agree,They ipend their money on the law,and bring theinfelves to poverty.*Tis reck’ning, (harping, and deceiving,’t;s hard to find a man that’s juft ;Ercaule they feldom find the way,to pay the thing they take in truft.> • There’s diremen. (bowmen, mountain-failors,peop e pretending to be dumb;Fortune-tellers, and quack-docfors,by inch vagrants we’re undone.’ Our merchants buy up m—al and corn,beef and butter, and our cheefe,Sends it out 10 foreign countries,for to rniir.tain our enemies.But row of we are informer!.tbat their ihips are pris ners ta’en.Who were going with provifion,the french army to maintain;Ihe French have got our men and money,ocry this neighbours if you dare,Anu for your thanks you plainiy fee,they reward you with open war.Dutchmen too that treach’rous crew',for prefervation of their trade,They promis’d to afiifl the French,aitho’ they were with us in league.Before the war, diftrefs’d and poor,fcmh high and nughty now tbfy’re grown.To them we gave a great collcdiou,and had not power to heip our own.Foreigners we did encourage,ay dear neighbour that is truth ;Good Scotth-ak and fiighlana-whifky,had no relifh in our mo.nh.Brandy anti rum w^e chafe to drink,^ and many a cofily thing btfide,I here’s rothing that appears among ft us,but perfect poverty and pride.Now obferve the pride of women,hew they walk with furh an air,V. irh ribbons, rings, ruffles and fans,capuchir.cs and foreheads bare.. ( 7 >Oar fervnnt-maids are now fo proud,"they do refemblc their Ladies ne-ir.They have fo many new made droffes,they fcarce can tell what garb to wear.Fainting and patches for th^r faces,in the faflilon they muft be;The pooreft wife in ail the town,each morning (he mu!t have her tea.Oor men are grown fo void of reafon,often leaves their wedded wife,| Chufing for to keep up a mifs,they're wcary’d of a n arrv'd life.Women for to leav - tlieir hufbands,is not that a double fin.Enough to bring on tis a jadg*:ment,and confume the land weTe in.0 grant u* poace and unity,jr for certainly we may confider.That now the world is near an end,for each man drivci to cheat another.LOVE AND LIFE.TN love and life the prefent ufe,1 One hour we grant the next refufe ;Vho then would nik a nay ?Were lovers wife, they would be kind,And.in.our eye> the moments find.For only then they may.THIS IS NO MINE AIN HOUSE.H I S is no mine ain houfe,® I ken bv the ringing o’t:Since with my love Ave changed vo^s,I dinna like the bigging o’::For now that I’m young Robie’s bride,And miftrefs of his fire-fuie.Mine ain houfe I’ll like lO guide,And plcafe rae wi’ the trigging o*:.Then farewe] to my father’s houfe,I gang where love invites me :The ihi&efi: duty this ailows.When love with honour meets me.When Hymen moulds us into ane,My Robie’s nearer than my kin.And to refufe him wete a fin,Sae lang’s he kindly treats me.When I am in mine ain houfe,True love (halt be at hand ay.To tnhke me {till a prudent, fnoufe.And iet my man command ay,Avoiding ilka caufc of ftxife,The common ptft of human life,T1 tat makes ane wearied of his wife.And breaks the kindly band ay. —     Glafgo.vv, Printed by J. &c M. Robe r:[on,Sa'tmarkct, 1799.