THEGHOSTIO WHICH II ASSXD, TB*OUTWITTED TAX-GATHERER.!5-ITtt h fj a }wm3H* ,ct?c t* M n.->XHW ot.li inan iao-;.a . a iTTi /# ra<»: WODBAJO^H3,uas: :00« SLOT HOT aSTKVKXXXXX2£3iZX5k3ZKXXXX%?GHOS TOFM Y UNCLE.I arose early in the mornings and afterI1 taking a good breakfast, set out from home.A quantity of rain had fallen in the night.I It was, however, fair when I commencedmy expedition, and I wished it so to remain.The morning was still and beautiful; it wasat the early hour of four; I could not yetdistinguish the sun, though I was sensiblehe had left his ocean bed from the beautifulstreaks of colouring in the eastern sky. Toexpress the softness, mildness, and calmnessof the scenery, at that hour, I cannot findadequate words; those only can conceive itwho have witnessed the scene. 1 had notproceeded more than two miles, before a fewdrops alarmed me with apprehension of asoaking shower, from a heavy black cloudthat was slowly sailing over my head, andmy fears were soon realized by a very thickdescent that followed, on which I betook my-4<self with all speed to a thatched cottage, thatI saw at some distance, for shelter.Many years had elapsed since I had wan¬dered about in this spot in careless infancy,and the pretty secluded cot to which I wasadvancing, had once been my home. Ilooked around on the hills and dales, andcould easily recognise them as my old ac ¬quaintances. ‘Ha,’ said I, 1 ye change notyour appearance, ye grow not old in thecourse of time, the feebleness of age comethnot upon you;—ye still smile in the bright¬ness of summer, and frown in the loweringwinter. For ages ye have reared yourtowering crests, and given food to the flocksand the herds that have chequered your darksurface; ye have given a direction to themurmuring brook that proceeds from you,till it seeks, far distant, the mighty ocean;and while generation after generation hathpassed away, ye have preserved unvaried thefeatures ye possessed in ages gone—Evennow, as in years past, my eyes behold thestill sunsliine sleeping upon your gentlesloping declivities, interrupted only whenthe light cloud of spring, for a moment,casts over them its passing shadow! Mycogitations were suddenly interrupted by thegate at the end of the pasture, which I open¬ed. In another moment I was in the porchof the cottage; I lifted the latch, and went5i in. The house appeared just the same as Ihad left it ten years before. The furniturewas the same, and each piece occupied the: same position. The old clock stood tickingin the corner, as it had done for four-scoreyears, the oaken settle remained behind thedoor, and my uncle’s antique two armedi chair by the fire-side; but I saw no livingi creature in the house besides the cat on thei hearthstone. I listened awhile, but could! hear nothing. At this I rather wondered,as of yore the house was seldom, scarcely: ever, totally deserted. I then went forwardinto the spence, or country parlour, where Ijl found several neighbour cousins and the ser-i rants, all standing in deep silence aroundthe bed of my dying uncle.On entering, all eyes turned upon me;I I was a stranger to most of them; therewere, however, one or two who rememberedme. I advanced to the bed-side, and the| countenance of my uncle for a momentbrightened up at my approach, but soonsubsided again into a cold tranquil indiffer¬ence. It was plain that death was rapidly£ approaching. He had been speechlessseveral hours; consequently we could holdno conversation. He, however, put out Idshand, which I grasped with an affection re¬doubled by the prospect of soon losing liimfor ever. In my younger days I had livedbwith him, and he having1 no children of hisown, was then remarkably fond of me;subsequently that affection was strengthenedbetween us, and although circumstances hadcast my lot in another country, yet we hadkept up a friendly and affectionate inter¬course. Some time previous to his indisposetioo, 1 had again removed to within thirtymiles of his residence, which was the place ^from whence I set out on this sorrowfulvisit.My uncle wras a man of sound judgment,keen observation, and cheerful social disposi¬tion, joined to a thorough knowledge ofmankind; he possessed a good portion ofeccentricity and humour. He loved a cheer¬ful glass; he was kind to his servants, anddependants, and though rather of a frugaland saving disposition, yet he was charitableto his poor neighbours. In his freindshipshe was rather capricious, but firm in hisattachment to the kirk and goverment of hiscountry* He was apt to he a little passion¬ate and hasty in his temper; but his resent¬ment was seldom of long duration. He waswell beloved by those among whom he dwelt,and might he pronounced a good neighbour,and an excellent subject. By a long courseof industry in his profession, he had amasseda pretty good property, the knowledge of :which had drawn around him a host of needy 11 ■ •*relations, who besieged him with flattery andprofessions, hut the Nations were chieflyIrawn forth hy their hopes of inheriting the»]d man’s property. How he had willed itwas not known. He was a man of prudence,find seldom blabbed out his private affairs.On my arrival, I found all the friends'about him remarkably attentive and duteous;in their behaviour, though it was evidentthat a good deal of the attention was assum¬ed. Shortly after, he fell kite a kind of a[lose, and all left the room save an attendant>r two. Peggy, the servant who had livedwith my unde fourteen years, now insistedon my taking some refreshment. But Iwas too much agitated to feel any thing likeJpleasure in my repast, and what I ate wasimore to please the faithful old domestic, than'from any inclination of my own. WhenI my slight meal was over, I got up and wentto the window in a serious and reflectingmood. The afternoon was far advanced,and the scenery without was wrapped intranquillity. I was soon summoned frommy station to the parlour. My uncle hadsomewhat revived, and his speech had return¬ed, He told us death was making rapidadvances, and that we might soon expectthe moment of his dissolution. He informedus where we should find his will, and gave ussome excellent advice on our future conduct8Some things he requested us to perform,which I thought were a little odd. Hewished us to read his will in the room wherehe was, immediately after he had expired.He desired that he might not he laid out, asit is commonly called, until at least twelvehours after his departure; that his large twoarmed oaken chair might be placed in allorder and solemnity at the head of the tableevery meal, and that it should remain unoc¬cupied till after his funeral. He also wishedto be interred in a very deep grave. Allthese requests we promised faithfully to ob¬serve, when, after taking an affectionatefarewell of each, he quietly resigned himselfto his pillow; his breathing became moreand more faint, till at last we could perceiveit no more.During these transactions my mind wras 1in a state I cannot well describe: mythoughts were all confusion, while at thesame time I struggled to be calm and com¬posed. Poignant as were my feelings, Igazed on my dying relative with a sort ofapathy and grief, and at the moment when «nature was yielding up the contest I could -not shed a tear. In a short time all quitted >:the appartment, and I was left alone. Thebranches of the huge elm trees, with their ».thickening foliage, partially screening the <window, made it, under such circumstances. £9| awfully gloomy and tranquil. I took severalturns about the room, and with a soft stepI approached the bed, gazed a moment,turned away, and then going up to thewindow, strove to divert my thoughts bylooking at the surrounding landscape. Twil-light was descending, and the sober hues of; evening gradually enveloped the lofty hills.0 No sound struck my ear, except the fainti and low murmers of the brook, which brawl*fed down the valley at the bottom of thFlinty Knowe—the shout, softened by dis*tance, of the peasant committing his herds to(the pasture—and now and then the solitarybarking of a shepherd’s dog among the echoing dales, attendant on his master lookingout his charge lor the night.I had not stood at the casement manyminutes when my cousins, all talking in arude, noisy, and indecorous manner, cameinto the room with the will, which it seemsthey had departed in search of the momentthe testator had expired. I was a good dealshocked at the frivolity they manifested,and could not help reproving them, though'i in a mild and gentle manner, for the littlerespect they paid to the deceased. ‘ Whyye ken,’ said one, 4 he tauld us to read thewill amaist as soon as he died.’ ‘ Ay,’ criedanother, 4 and sae in conformity wi’ his com¬mand, we went straight up the stairs and10rummaged o’er Ms auld kist, till we ihimdit.’ ‘ Mind your aiu eonrerns, gudeman,and we’ll mind ours,’ rejoined a third, rathergruffly; so that my well meant admonitionshad no better effect than to cause me to bemore disliked by the party : for 1 could per¬ceive before this that they looked on me inthe light of an unwelcome intruder.The will was now read, to which all paidthe greatest attention. A mute anxiety anddeep interest sat on every countenance : theiraspects was, however, instantly changed intothose of intense disappointment and vex¬ation, on hearing that my uncle had madea stranger, whom none of us knew, the heirof all Ins property, real and personal. Formy part, this circumstance did not affect mein the least. 1 had not had any expectationof inheriting the smallest portion; thereforecould not feel disappointed. But with theothers it was different; they had clung tohim like so many leeches, or like the ivy tothe old min, and with about as much affec¬tion as the two before-mentioned things havefor the objects to which they so closely ad¬here. A most appalling and disgustingscene now took place among the disappoint¬ed legacy hunters. They abused the oldman in the most shocking terms: they tax¬ed him with injustice and viliany, and evenproceeded to call down imprecations upon his11i lifeless corse. I shuddered at the conduct ofthe unprincipled villains; I trembled at theimpiety of men who could, at a time themost solemn and impressive to a human be¬ing', act in a maimer sufficient to call downupon them immediate and div ine vengeance.I was chilled with horror. 1 almost expect¬ed every moment to see the lifeless corse ofi my uncle start trom the bed, on which it lay,i to take vengeance on the audacious wretches.Once, indeed, I actually thought 1 saw hislips quiver with rage—his eyebrows knittogether—and all the muscles of his coun-fl tenance contract into a dreadful frown. Ij I shuddered at the sight, and withdiew my"i'l gaze. _ ’At length they went into the kitchen, andI was once more left alone in the chamber of| death. I went to the bed-side, and the sceneI 1 had just witnessed operated so forcibly oni my feelings, that I burst into tears, anduttered aloud my lamentations over my life¬less relative. W hen this ebullition hadsomewhat subsided, I began to reflect a littleiiere 1 was, and a sort of timidity camecreeping oyer me. There is an undefinab eapprehension which we feel while we are incompany with the dead. \\ e imagine, inspite of the efforts of reason, that the departedspirit is hovering near its former tenement.It being now quite dark, and having tl^ese12feelings in a strong degree, it is no wonderthat 1 rather preferred the company of thewretches in the kitchen, than to remain longwhere I was.I accordingly proceeded thither, where Ifound them all carousing round a large table,on which were placed the fragments of thedinner, and plenty of liquor. I remindedthem of our promise to place my uncle’s oldtwo armed chair at the head of the table, ashe had requested, which they had neglectedto do, and which they now strenuouslyopposed my doing. I was, however, reso¬lutely determined to have it done, and atlength succeeded. I then retired to the fire¬side, where I sat, without taking any partin the conversation, or in any thing thatpassed during the whole evening. 1 shallpass over the several succeeding hours, thewhole of which they sat drinking, till theywere all in a greater or less degree intoxi¬cated, and generally brawling, wrangling,and swearing in a loud and boisterousmanner. The night became stormy as itadvanced. The wind arose, and at intervalsmoaned, sighed, and whistled shrilly with¬out, roared in the wide chimney, and as itfuriously bent the trees in which the housewas embosomed, made a sound similar to thedashing of the waves on the shore of theocepn. The rain fell in torrents, and the13large drops pattered against the window withi! a ceaseless and melancholy cadence.It was now getting nigh the £ witching; time of night/ and I saw no signs of therevellers quitting the table. On the con-. trary, they grew more loud and boisterous,i ] In obedience to their imperious commands,i yet evidently with the greatest reluctance,j Peggy had kept replenishing the exhaustedi i vessels with more liquor, and their demandsi i increased in proportion to the reluctance with/which they were satisfied. At length, how-/ever, on receiving an intimation from me; I that I would interpose, she absolutely refusedato draw any more liquor for them, tellingI them they had plenty, and that it was timeoto retire to bed. The scene that now ensued/was such as is impossible for me to describe;! maddened and inflamed with rage at beingI thus refused, the wretches began to throwithe furniture up and down the house, breakIthe glasses and jugs, and to abuse the ser¬vant, from whom they attempted to wrestthe key of the cellar, yelling out at the sametime the most horrid oaths and impreca-[I tions.The table was shortly overset, and thejlights put out in the scuffle, and in a fewjimoments we should, in all probability, have.ihad blood shed, as I felt myself roused to a{(pitch of fury, and was advancing with the14larg-e heavy headed fire-poker to the assist¬ance of the servant, who was loudly shriek¬ing for help: just then the old dock strucktwelve rapid strokes, and the T>e}l had notceased to vibrate, when we heard three heavyknocks, as if given by a mallet upon thewall, which separated the kitchen from theparlour where my uncle lay. There appear¬ed to he something supernatural in this.The whole house seemed to shake to its veryfoundation. A deep silence ensued. I stoodstill. The wretches instantly became sober.We all gazed earnestly and wildly at the placefrom whence the noise proceeded. Scarcehad we recovered from the shock, wlien we■were again thunderstruck with a noise in theparlour; it Avas unlike any sound that 1 hadever heard before. It seemed as if all thefurniture in the room Avas violently crashedton-ether, m hurled Avith the noise of fire-arms.Shrieks and exclamations burst from all.The AvindoAvs shook and every door of thehabitation gave a momentary jar. 1 trem¬bled Avith awe. I felt every hair of my headbristling upwards—my knees smote againsteach other—a deathly paleness sat on everycountenance, and all eyes were fixed in anintense gaze on the door, at the upj>er partof the kitchen, Avhich led to the staircase,;buttery, and parlour. When, to complete Jthe horror of the scene, the door burst wide |15:i|>en—dashed against the wall, and in, glkl-• ]ig at a slow pace, came a dreadful afrparl-■ Ion. Its eountenanee was that, of death.■ t seemed to have been long the inhabitantf that dark and narrow house—the grave;he worms had revelled upon its eyes, andIpffc nothing but the orbless sockets. Thetest of the skeleton was enveloped in a longind white sheet. The horrid spectre ad-i anced into the middle of the room. I in-| oluntarily shrunk back—the heavy weapontiropped from my hand and rang loudly oniilie stone Moor; overcome with terror, I sankItjhto a chair. A cold sweat broke from myitirehead, and I had well nigh fainted on itsrst appearance; the others had tumbled onever the other, in the greatest horror anditonfusion, and now lay as if dead in alllirections.The spectre gazed wildly round for a: noment—at the clock—at the fire—andI hen turned its eyeless sockets upon eachindividual, motioning at the same time withts long ami, and pointing to the outer door,leemingly directing to an outlet for an•scape, and wishing for their exit. Theyvere not long in obeying this intimation,ut severally crawled away on A !r handsnd knees, with all the speed they couldpossibly make; none of them daring to standupright. The spectre all the while was16standing in the middle of the floor, eyeing,or rather appearing to eye them, through:the void sockets, where eyes had onceglistened, as they retreated one by one in thegreatest fear and trepidation. When P eg'gyand I offered to decamp along with the rest,]the spectre motioned us to remain where w<:were, and we durst not for our lives disobey.When the last of the crew was making hisexit, and had crawled nearly to the door, thespectre, which had hitherto stood motionless,except waving its arm and slowly turningits eyeless countenance on the wretches asthey crept successively out of the doorbounded with the rapidity of lightning afterthe terrified wretch. But swift as the flightof spirits are, in this case that of the mortalwas swifter: the fellow gave a thrillingscream—made a convulsive spring—hisheels struck violently against the lintel of thedoor in ms course, and he vanished from mysight and the spectre after him. ‘ Gudedefend us,’ said Peggy. For my part, illas I was frightened, 1 could scarce forbeaiIlaughing outright at the last incident sccomic and farcical.Half a minute had not elapsed, when 1heard a step, and in another instant (I stilkept my eyes on the door) in came the veryform of my uncle, muttering, ‘ VillainsRascals’ Hypocrites!’ He fastened the dooi17j'lafter him, shut out his nephews and thea spectre, and then came towards the fire. Atijthis I was more amazed than ever. He,however, gave me to understand that he was. i lalive and well, and that all I had seen trans-t acted in the afternoon and evening, was( nothing but a stratagem he had made use o f|to try the sincerity of his relations, and if hei found them, as he conjectured, false in theiruprofessions, to get rid of them. The schemejfnnswered nobly, and, it must be confessed,lithe stratagem was well planned and exceed-"ngly well executed.My uncle concluded his relation withssuring me, that, excepting a good legacydr his faithful servant Peggy, I should/inherit all that he possessed, as some little: acknowledgement for the fright he hadcaused me; and as for the wretches he had:iexpelled from his house, in so singular at manner, they should never more "Lross the(threshold of his door. We all three nowsat down to a little supper, of which my(uncle stood in great need, and after takingja cheerful glass retired to bed.Notwithstanding the fatigue of my jour¬ney, and sitting up so late, my sleep wasar from being sound and refreshing. Iivas disturbed with fearful dreams the whole[Inight. At length the cocks began to crow—the clouds of the eastern sky to breakassunder, and the morning to dawn. v\rhenit was tolerably light I started up, resolvedon a stroll over the meadows. Before goingout, however, 1 went into the parlour, whereI found every thing in the utmost confusion.Chairs, tables, walking-sticks, and logs ofwood, lay all over the floor, and every thingupset or in a wrong position. I then proceeded to the outer door, which I opened,but started back in horror, on perceiving ahuman skull lying on a sheet at my right ,hand, just without the door. Recovering !from my fright, I gathered it up, and could Inot restrain my laughter, when i discoveredit to he nothing more than a mask, repre¬senting a death’s head. It seems while wewere all wrangling the night before, myuncle had stepped out of bed—dressed him- :j.self—piled all the furniture, logs of woodand timber, he coidd in the apartment, in aheap, crowning the pyramid with a dozen or jmore walking sticks, which had lain time Iout of mind on the top of an old cupboard f.—then gone up stairs and put on the horrid rmask—brought down a pistol, and enveloped j1himself from his feet to his chin, in a clean 'white sheet; after alarming us, just as theclock struck the awful hour of twelve, bystriking three heavy blows against thewall with a huge log of wood, he contrivedto tumble down the whole mass of furniture19t nonce—fired Ids pistol at the same moment,d then hurst in upon us in the manner■ inscribed.I now went out. As I was crossing theJ rd, I discovered several drops of blood on(stone, which I coidd no way account for,It by supposing some of my good cousinsd received, in their retreat, a fall; and, aSijtle further, 1 discovered a pair of shoes,receptacle for the filth of the byre, inother part of the yard, bore evident markssome one having had therein a severeuggle.Indeed the adventures of the flying heroesbeen various and woful; one of them,at whom the spectre had made such adden bound, as I afterwards ascertained,tually ran seven miles without stopping,id with his shrieks, supposing the grimouster close at his heels, almost raised thelole country. I now proceeded onwardser the fields, listening to the warblingrk ‘ springing blithely up to greet theirpling east.’ The air was fresh anddire, and, in the beauties of nature, Iwliile forgot the events of the precedingu ening. With hasty steps I roved oversie faintly recollected scenes, where I hadi childhood spent some of my happiestijiours, until weary with my rambles I re~I’urned to breakfast.20OUTWITTING A TAX-GATHERER.■' ♦Some writers have stated the number ofislands in Strangford Lough to be upwardsof two hundred, but it has been ascertainedthat there are not more than fifty-four. Someare inhabited; on others cattle of variouskinds are kept b}r the proprietors of thegrounds on the opposite shore. Upon oneof them there is a very extensive rabbit-warren. The individual who resides on this ,island had for many years derived a veryconsiderable income from the sale of therabbit skins, and although he had erected avery good house, he never once dreamed ofpaying any thing in the shape of excise ortaxes. At length, however, a tax-gatherer,who had paid a visit to the houses on theneighbouring shore, beheld with anxious* l(r,gaze the goodly edifice which presented it¬self upon the island, and determined upon .visiting it in the name of his Majesty. The*,,,,proprietor of the place, having been in thehabit of receiving visits from persons whocame to purchase his skins, and supposing .the taxman to be one of them, sent off a boat,,to fetch him to the island. On reaching the ,place, the man of taxes began to make?various enquires as to the time the house had i21sen erected, the number of windows,earths, &c., it contained: and, havingsained the desired information, he immedi-itely demanded, on behalf of his Majesty,:considerable sum, as the amount of taxes!tid arrears due upon the place. In vain\e poor man protested against the proceed-Hg, as an imposition, in vain he contended,iiat the demand, never having been madeifore, he had no right to pay it then. Theiranger was inexorable, and nothing wouldtisfy him but the payment of the money>wn, or, in default thereof, he threatenedreturn direct, with a party of the army,lid lead, drive, and carry away all that heIpuld find upon the island. At length, fear-Sg such a catastrophe, and finding everyclbrt to soften the hard heart of the excise-i jan completely fruitless, the poor man paidiiwn the amount demanded, and got aigular acknowledgement for the same; andlie officer, having put the money in histicket, haughtily .desired that he might belit ashore. { No, no,’ said the old man;although his Majesty may compel me toi iv taxes, he cannot compel me to keep aftiat to row you, and the likes of you, backfind forward.’ After many threats andijntreaties, the islander at last consented, asPie had brought his visitor over, to give him|a bit of a row’ back again ; and both getting into the boat, along with a young lad,son to the proprietor, they pulled for sometime in the direction of shore. When aboutmidway, however, the islander, quietly lay¬ing down his oar, informed the officer, thatalthough he had promised to give himbit of a row,’ he had never any intention oftaking him the entire way, and that he mustnow do the best he could, as he was himsehobliged to return to the island, or that they ,would land him on Phaddy Lhug, (a large irock, which was visible at low water, butwas many feet beneath the surface at full. •tide,) from which, if he shouted loud enough, iperhaps some of his friends on the shoremight hear him, and send a boat to convey ;him the remainder of the distance. On the .other protesting against such conduct, andinsisting that they should continue their jlabour, and take him ashore—the old man,pulling his oar into the boat, and desiringhis son to do the same, very drily observed,that if the gentleman dkl not wish to quit,the boat, they would not insist upon his doing;so, as they ‘ coidd swim like two water dogs,and thus easily regain the island ; but that jif he chose to pay him for it, he would: iwillingly land him at any place he wished., ,rFinding himself outwitted by the islanders,, •the officer deemed it the more advisable way1 itto accede to the terms proposed—when, to his:233stonishraent, he found that the demand wagllothing- less than the entire amount he hadreceived for the taxes, together with a receiptfir those of the following year, and a specialigagement, that he would never again re-irn to that island to demand taxes on excise,ard as the terms were, he was at lengthpropelled to accede to them, rather than|ake on a tide which, at the time, was Tun¬ing at the rate of nine miles an hour, the< Iternative of being left to drift out to sea in|.n open boat, with scarcely a hope of reliefrom any quarter. It is scarcely necessaryobserve, that having paid back the money,nd giving the required receipt, the crest-alien taxman was put safely ashore, andever again visited the island, or trustedlimself in company with so tricky a customeras the old dealer in rabbit skins.SCARLET DISCOVERED.A Highlander entered a haberdasher’s shopn Perth, and asked for a piece of scarletdoth to make him a waistcoat. The rusticanner of the Gael set wane young womenho were at the counter a-giggling; ande shopman, willing to afford them sport,gan to play off his small wit upon the24stranger. (( So, goodman, ye want a pieceof scarlet ? Would you know scarlet if yousaw it?” “ I link I would,” replied themountaineer. The shopman threw down apiece of blue cloth: “Is that scarlet?*1“ Hout no, no! that no be it.” A piece ofgreen cloth was produced; the same questionwas repeated, and received a similar answer,to the great amusement of the querist andhis female friends, who were at no pains toconceal their mirth. The Highlander tookrevenge in his own way: He put his noseto the cloth, and affected to judge of thecolour by the smell. The shopman, at hisrequest, did the same; but the instant he Ibent his nose towards the counter, the ■Highlander seized him by the ears, andmade his nasal protuberance come in suchviolent contact with the boards, that the bloodsprung from it. “ Tat,” said the High¬lander, “is ta colour o’ scarlet tae ye noo, |lad;” and he walked away.