X H ETHREE CRUMP TWIN BROTHERS?AN EASTERN TALE.EDINBURGH??y*r*4 iM Sok. by J Mon*.!*, Gov(&te.i*®9»T H KTHREE CRUMP TWIN-MOTHER^OFD A M A S C U S.TTNDER the Caliphkt'of Watik-billRh, gran3*^ fon of Haroun Arrefchid, there dwelt atDam»fcu& * an old man calUd Hehenirillah, whodid but juft get a poor livelihood by making Steel-Bows, Swords, Sabres, apd Knife-Blades Ofthirteen children which he had by one wife, tendied all in one year; but tl e three that remainedwere fo odd a figure, that it was impoffible toIcok at them without laughing: They were ci cok¬ed both behind and before blind uf the left eye,lame of the ight foot, and fo pt rftftly like on*another in face, fliape, and eUthes w hi h theyalways wore the fame with one another, tht«t eventheir father and mother .fometimes miftook on*for the other.Of the three fona of Behen.rillah, the eldeftwas naaaed load, the lecond Syaiiouk, and thaDsmafca* w » city oiSyra, at the foot of MauatLibanus, sbotit fcrty icagnts from A*lepi>o. It is nigb*ly reiwtcd to for iu Rn vea, bo*> ana Sabres | Tht?Bed ®f JDamaicas u ia vary gnat sjssrt,HISTORY OF THE THREE, 3third Babekan, and thefc three dttle hump, back'dbvotlersnever worked in their (hop bat they ferv-ed for laughing-flocks to a.l the boys and girls j»the town:One day, ns the jon!y fon jof a rich irerchant,named Mourad, retorned from walking, with fomeof his play-fellows, finding himfelf more merrythan uf al, he leaped upon the bulk of the threecrumps, and ipfulted them with fo mnch keen,,nefi that Babekan, v. ho was then at work upon aKn.fe-Blade, loil aU patienqe;. he ran after thofechildren, and Angling out his principal enemygave him a cut in he belly; but finding that hewas purfued by the mob he ran into his fhop andpulled to the door after him.As Mourad was clangeroufly wounded, all theavenues, of Behimrillah’s houl’e were immediatelyfecured rill the Cady, whs ^ as fent for, fliouldbe come. He repaired thither immediately withhis Azaasf, and having broken down the doors,Opon their refufal to open them, he entered into♦he Ihop, and demanded of thole who had . eenwitneffes of the afti.*n that was committed^ whichefthe three crumps was the murderer ? Nobodycould affirm that it was one of . them more thanthe other; they were fo exa<5Uv alike that theyWere all at a lofs. • he Cady examined ibad, whoaffured him that it was not he that had oundedthe boy, ;nd that he could not tell whit erit wasSyahouk or Babekan yahouk averred the famething. And Babekan, feeing himfelf out of dan¬ger, had-the impudence to deny likewife that befead any hand in the rime.The Cady was therefore much perplexed whs*$ The Azxas ire a (bit of catdipoles that geaeraUfarjtompany the Cadies.4 HISTORY OF THE THREEto do : there could he but one criminal, and herefeetned to be three; and never a one of themwovtl.i own himlelf to be the man: he thought hecould not do better, than to inform the Kinjr ofDamafcus of fo fingular an affair He carr ed thethree crumps before his throne; and th t Princehaving examined them hitnfelf, without being a-ble to find out the truth gave command, 'in orderto ciifcover it that each of hem Ihould have ahundred battinadoes upon the foies of his feet.They began with ^yahouk, and after warn* pro¬ceeded to I bad; but both of them being ignorantwhether Babekan was the criminal orno, fo muchrefemblance there was between them, they endur¬ed the baitinado without riving the King anyclearer information than he had before. Babekanafterwards received his quota offtripes; but be¬ing judge in his own caufe, he did not think fitto betray himfelf-, he m. de the moll earneft pro-teftations of his innoct*ce, and the King notknowing which was the murderer, aijd unwillingto put to death two innocents with one criminal,was contented with baaifinng them all three fromDamalcus for ever.Ibad, Syahouk and Eabekan were obliged tocomply with thb femence immediately. Theydeparted from the city and'having confideredwhat they Ihould d6 lb d and Syabopk were‘en¬tirely for keeping together; but Baoek.m havingreprefentsd to them, that let them go where theywould, fo long as they were together they if oulkalways be the jell ot the public, and that if theywere fingle they would each bt infinitely lefi ob-. ferved; this reafon prevailed over the opinion ofthe other two. They parted from each other,and taking every one a diflerent roac, Babckan,■$fter having travelled through ieverj t*ww qfCRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. 5Syria, cam, at lenth to Bagdad*, where Watik-billah the gran'dfon of Haroun Arrefchid, heldthe fupreme power.This little crooked wretch underflanding thatthere was in that city a cutler of tolerable poodrepute, went to him for employment; he toldhim he was of Damafcus, and that he had a par*ticular art in tempering of fleelthe cutler waswilling to try if Babekan was as great a mailerof his trade as he boaiied himfelf to be, he too*him ir.to his fhop, and finding indeed that no*only the Heel he tempered v as as hard and {harpagain, as what was commonly ufad at Bagdad,but alio that his work was much more neat andperfect, he retained him in his fervire, . nd en-tertained him with great kindnefs, that he mightkeep him to Kimfelf.Urom that time his (hop was always crowdedwitheudomers. he.little crump could not workfiaft enough; the cutler fold his Bows and Sabresat his own price; and if he had not been a drunk¬en extravagant fot, he might have made a very*confiderable fortune.Babekan had fcarce been tw» years at Bggdsdwhen his mailer fell very ill of a great cebauchhad made: his body r^as so-worn and waftedby ine, brandy* and women, that all the care ofbis wife an*l Bab kan could not fave his life : hedied in their arms. , ‘ ,Thcui h Nohoud. which was the name of thfceotler s wife, was very far from being handfoaaCjBabekan had neverthelefs been in love with herforfome time ; and his,msfter s death being * fair•pporcunity to declare his ps-ffion, he without any• Bagdad is a city ef Afia, fcated npon the- fVgriS*in the Prorince of Hierao. It ha s long been ths plaeeof abode of the Ga liphs pf ^T.gypt.€ HIRTORY OF THE THREE.hefitation m..de t!ie wield acquainted with his :fentiihents. Shewasnotfomuchalarme^lattheih* iior befnies that his out-of-the-way figure began togrow familiar to her. She further confiJered thatif Bahian left her, the fliop would prefently lofeitfc • reputation, and that-th'e little money fh^.had :faved Jitrihg her hulbandfi.liie, would foon'he ;Jpcnt. i reafons induced her, liks a lenlihle ^,woman as (lie was," to make Babekan a protnife of Smarriage, fo loon as fhe could do it with decency, j;She kept her word with him fome months after- Iwards; and Babekah, not fatisfied‘with his gut-hog trade alone, whereby in a little time he got•a great deal of money, fell like wife into the Wayof felling brandy of date-s, which he had a' veiny. confiderable demand for.‘ 1 he correfpondence that Babekan had m feve--ral town^ of the eatl, came to the e us of hisr.twoCrosiers, who, after having Hv>d for almoft fie' vest's in the utmofl poverty, were at lad otet to-geiher at I'Jerbent J : here they leaint.to the-:rgreat joy the proip.j-iiy of Babekan, and notdoubting out he Would afiiit.-hew iii thyu’ want,they rtl'ulved to go together to Bagdaq; they were*io Iboner arrived there than they ientfqjf him By» poor woman who had taken them uno IfSt’ houfeout of charity.Babekan was proiigioully furpfiled at the fightof his brothers Have you forgot, faid hq'to themin a viole. t pafEon, w:.at happened tp Usj at Da-fnafeas'? have you x. thind to make me the jdft otthis city too; I fwear by my head that ypu lhalldie beneath the cudgel, it you dare to come near*ny houfe, or Ray in Bagdad anatber hour.+ ’Dcrbent is a town of the province of Ssrvanio Vcffli, at the foot Of mount C«uca.u., _CRUMP TWIN BROTHERS. 7tbad anti his brother vvtfe am;.zcd at a recep¬tion fo little expefitd; it v*?.s in vair.'they repre¬sented their mifery to Babpkan, and tbewed hie*the mod abject fubtnifiioh; he continued unmov¬ed ; and uli they could'ob'sin of him vtas ten ortwelve pieces of gold, to help them to'iettle' n»fome other town.Bcibekad being returnedhbine, his wife perceiv¬ed an alteration in hi- countenance : Ihe alked himthe caufe of it, and was anf-ertd h.t it proeedr«4 from the arrival of his two brothers; but that*• apprehending at Bagdad the fame railleries he hadbom at Damafcus, he had forbid them his hottfe,and obliged them to leave the town.Nohoud to hopurpofe remohltrated to biro thecruelty what he had done", her hulband’s furywas increale by her perfuafion s. 1 find, fayshe, you will be tempted to enteiinill d'fciin hereduring the journ y 1 am to make to Balforat but‘take notice, I would advife you, that if you do,it wall-colt you your life. I fay no mere: lookto it th t ou do not difobey meBahetan"* wife was too well acquainted with.#ier hufband’s violent humour to contradict lihn ;fite had often enough felt the weight ol his arm.She promifed molt punctually to execute his or¬ders ; but thofe prbmifes did not make Babekat*ealy; he pafled the whole nig t without taking a.wink of deep, and returning next morning atbreak of day to the woman & houfe where his bro¬thers had lodged, he heard to his great fatiifa&ioath t they were gone from Bagdad, with an intta-tion never to fee it again.Ibad and Syal ojik M»ere indeed d parted with *tvfolation to go feek their fortunes elefwhsre ; butthe latter falling fick about two days journey trotnJJagd-d, and they finding themitlves obliged t»# 8 HISTOHY OY T E THREEfiay there almofl. three weeks, their money was•focn gone, and they,reduced to their former want:„ ^not knowing how to live,, in fpite of the fevereprci.ibitionthey had received from B.bekan, theyrefolved to go back to Bagdad : they went to theirformer landlady, and begged her to go once moreto their brother, in order to periuade him, if filecould, to take them into Ida heufe, or at leaft .togive them a little money'to defray the «harg« oftheir journey.T; e poor woman could not refufe to do themthat fervice ; (he went to Babekan's houfe, andbeing informed at his {hop that he had been gonetwelve days to Balfora, to fetch feveral bales of, taer hmdifes, fixe returned immediately to tellthi; news to her gueils, who were fo hard pi efledby their neceflity, that they went themfclvcs toimplore the afliltance of their brothre’s wife ,Nohoud could not help knowing them ; theyrefembled Babekan fo exaflly, that there was nobody but who would have miflaken each of themapart for. him ; but though he had f ftri&W com¬manded her not to let them into her houfe, fliewas touched w ith their poverty and tears ; fti«entertained them, , nd let feme vfeluals beforethem. It was now dark fcight; and Ibad andSyahouk had fearce fatisfied their' firll hunger,. when fomebody rattled aixlie door ; the voi e ofBabekan, wlio was not to have retur ed io three,days longer, was a thunderbolt td his wife andbrothers; they turned as pale as death, and No-houd, who did not know where to put them to 'eonceal them from her.hulbands fury, thought atlaft of hiding hem in a little cellar behind five orfix tubs of Brandy. *Babtkan grew impationt at the door; he knock,ed louder and louder every moment; atlaft it wss —-tt"—  ; ’ir—  ■ - s1      1 '. CRUMP TWItf-BRDlMERS. 9Opened, and fufpeiling hta wife of having fomegallanf hi 1 in « ,corner, he took.a Rick and beat"her foundly; afterwards, his jealoufy inthicinghirn to fearch all the houfe, he rifited every holeprith the greateft care, but never thought of look,ing behind the brandy tubs, though he went intothe cellar. At Uft, the'hump-backed fchurl hav¬ing made no di coverv, grew a 'ittle calm; he’.loc: edall the door*; taking the keys according tohis cutlom; went to bed with Nohoud; and didnot go out all next day till toward th fcvening-pre.yer, tellin^ his wife he fhould fup with afriend.His back was hardly turned, when Nohoud raaimmediately to the crlbr ;-but (he was in the ut-,moft furprile at finding Ibad and Syahouk withoutthe leaft figns of life: her perplexity increafed,when (he confidered {he had no way of gettingrid of the two bodies; but taking er refolutioBat once (he flmt up the fhop, ran to look towardsthe bridge of Bagdad for a foolifh porter ot Sivr;-hiffar *, and having told him that a little hump¬backed man who cam- to her houfs to buy fo’meknives, havin/ died there fuddenly, (lie feared Ihefeould be brought into trouble about it; (he prof¬fered him four ftquins of golif he wwuld puthim into tbe fack, and throw him into the ygris.The porter accepted her offer; and Nohoud hav¬ing taken him home ■ ith her, gave him two fe--quins by way of earneft treated him with drinktill it was night put only one of the crumps intohis fack, helped im up ith it, and promiftd togive him ■ he other two feqnins when die was farehe had performed his commiffioa.The porter, with the crump upon his flioulier ^* Sirri-hiflar is a town of Natolia, the inhabiVint3* * 1•f ate famous for their fimplioity.^ HISTORY OF THE; TriREE ?’being come to th# bridge of opened bl*lack, (hot hi# ioad iiito .tbd river, and ranningback to NohoaA Ti» done, laid he laughing, yourman is fifh meat by this time give me the, tw»fequins you proasifed, me. Mo bond then went sbehind her counter, under pretence of fetchinghim the money; but itiriing back with a loud cry,'fhs pretended > fall into a Iwoon. t he porterftrangely furprifed, took her into his arms : afterh vi g fenthed her to herfel/^ he enquired thecaufe of her fright: Ah, faid the cunning hulTy,aftin • her part t > a miracle, go in there, and yenwill loon know the cauie. The porter went in,'was ftruck as mute as a fi(h when by the glim¬mering of « lamp be perceived the fame, bodywhL. h he thoaght he had thrown into the ygris.The more narrowly he viewed it, the greater was,his farprife. I am fure, faid be to Nohoud, l didthrow that plaguy crooked rafeal over the bridge ;how then could he go ne hither ? there mult hewitchcraft in it: however continued he, let’s tryif h r will.get out again ; then having put the fe-cond crump hue the fame fack, he carried him tothe bridge, and choofmg out the deepeft part ofthe Tygris opened his fack, and threw in poorSyahouk. He \yas again retuming merrily to No¬houd, n,o,t doubting that his burden was gone tothe bottom,' when turning the corner of a ilreet,hC faw coming towards him a man with alanthornin his hand. He was ready to drop down deadwith fear at the fight of Babekan, who was goinghome a little overtaken with wine. He doggedhim, however a little while, and finding that hetook the ready way to the houfe from which he.had fetched the two crumps he feized him furi-oully by the collar: Ah, rogue l cried fce, youthink to make a fool of me all night, do you l you UKTJ7TT VV 1 Nr.UIi lO l U KK'i. ‘ _ ’" TT”-’Tiave fervcl neihis tricttwic-alr*idy: butifyoti-efcape the third I will be hanged : then,being a lufty fellow, he threw his fuk over hisihoulders, and forcing h-m into it in fpite of his’teeth, tied the mouth of it with a ftron£ rope,and ruinin. . direflly to the bridge, flung in poorBhbekan, fack and all: he^walked a pretty whilethareabouts, for fear the crump fitould get out a, g'.in to cheat him of his reward, but hearing nonoiferetumed tothecutlere&todemand thb' other. two fequins, which Qie had promifed him. Donot fear his coming any more, faid he, the mo«ment he fat his foot into the houfe: the wag hatla mind'to-make me his fport for ever, I hink ;die only pretended to be dead, that he might makeme trot my legs off; but I have done his bufoiefsfor him now lo thoroughly that he will n vercome to your houfe any more, I will engage fo*him. .I^ohoud,.furpri{ed at this dlfcourfe,^ dofired himto tell her what he meant by it. Why, repliedhe, I had again thrown thisidarsned crump intothe • ygrjs, when as I was returning to yon formy money,. I met himagain about five or :ix ftreetsoff wi h a lanthbrn in his hand, .finging and roar*ing under pretepce of being drunk. I w&s fo hor»ridlv enraged with him, that laying hold of him lforced him into my fack.in’ fpite of all his refif*. tance, tied it with a cord, and lo throw him intothe Tygris, from whence I believe he can nevenreturn unlefs he-be the Daggial * bimfelf.Babekan’s wife was in an unparalleled furprifaat this news, /sh ? firrah, faid Ihe, whr.t haveyou done? you have now drowned rny hulhand-and have you the impudence to think Ijv.iil re** The Digg'al is the Antkhrift ofthe Mahometans.rrf «“>'XT’"’ 00.' no; I will rt v WJliLt to ;h” c2;;.hu momentK<> "*• »yHie porter gave vefy little heed to all herthreats ; he thou ht fhe did this only to avoidpaying him the money flie had promifed him!Ihlve h!'8ive me the two {-equina, I have fo lav/fidiy earned ; you have made a\olSo, rf”? T a,ready : 1 milftbe S°ne home.. ISohoud rerufing to ^pay him.; I fwear bv myh.ad, replied he m a violent rage, if you do notgive me the two fequins this moment, 1 will fendyou to keep company with that crooked momterI have t.iro .n into the river. Now, added hedifpute my payment if you dare : I am not fuch afool as you take me for; I will have my moneyprefently, or 1 will make the houfe too hot lo holdyou. Ihe more the porter inOfted upon his mo¬ney, the more noifeNohoudmade ; he grew wearyof f° much reQftance, and taking her by the hair,he gulled I?er m;o the ftreet; and was really go¬ing to throw her into the Tygrisfwhen the neigh¬bours to her affiltance.1 he porter upon this took to his heels, very• much m dudgeon at having, as ha thought, beenio gt ofjy put upon, and was going towards thebridge in his way home, when he met three men,each-With a load upon his fhoulder, ag far-as hecould defeern in the dark. He that went firft tookhim bv thearm: Where are yon going at thistime of night, faid he ? What’s that to you, faidthe porter very fnappiflily; I am going'where Ipleafe . You are greatly deceived, arifwered thettrangcr, tor you (hall go where I pleafe? take thisbundle off my head, and walk before me.Phe porter furprifed at the command, wouldnave relilted ; but that man having fliook at bia»a fabr; four fingers broad, and thrt#*t* ned to cat•ff hi* head if he did n 't obey that raom'e. t, he■wa* forced to tak-. up the lo d and go in companfwitn the other,< *0, whereof one ieemed a (lave,and the other a fifherman. They had not walkedten ftreets when they came to a little door, whichwas prefently opened by an old woman: they puff¬ed through a losg p ILge very dark, ..nd arrivedat laft into a magnificent hall : but what wa* theporter’s amafement, when by the hgnt of aboveforty tapers with which it was illuminated, he lawthe crooked brothers he had thrown into the Ty-gris, two of whom were open the thoulders of theSave and the filherman, and the third upon hi*own head; he was feized with lach terror, thathe began to (hake all over his body He was morethoroughly^sonvineeo th->n ever, that fo extraor¬dinary a thing could, be imputed to nothing but'conjuration: but recovering a little from his fright.The Devil take this curfed crump-backed, one-fyed fon of a whore, cried he in a very comicaltone, I believe I {hall do nothiag all ni ht butthrow him into the river, and not get rid at hitnat laft, the. rafeal was fo malicious to come backagain twice to hinder me from having the leryoinsthe cutler woman promiled me ; and nere*l findhim again, with two others hefides, not afarthingbetter than himlelf. But, fir, continued he ad-drefling himfelf to him that feemed the mdter ofthe houfe, lend me, I bel’eech you that fa-re ofyours but for a moment; 1 will only cut off theirheads^ and then go throw them all three into theTygris, to fee if they - ill folldw me agairr. I amfo horrid unlucky to day, that l am lure the Devilwil carry them back either to the cutler’s houf#or mine, do what I will.The porter having finiflied this fpeech of his*.~W - ivsi li i V i' llliXJLTl#tlje Caliph V'atik biliah, for it was hS himrelF,tjiat b the adventure of flarou t -rrdfchid, hisgrandfather, walked cut very often in the night¬time in the Greets o? Bagdad to *.e what paffed,end to be capable of making a judgement himfelfhow the people liked his government; this Caliph*I fay, who. was difguifed like a merchant, was inthe utmcd furprife lit thefe words of the porter’s:he had been outthat night with his prime Viziaf*and having met a 'fiiberman he a(ked him whitherhe went; I am go.'ing, anfwered he, to draw upmy nets, which f. have left ever- fince yefterdaymorning -in the 'fygr s. And what will you do-with the filh you. catch ! replied the Caliph To*morrow, faid he, I will go fell it in the marketof Bagdad, to he lp to maintain my wife and threechildren. Will you bargain with m€ for vourwhole draaghr.i replied Wa’ik-billah. With all'my heart, anfwered the filherman. Well, faidthe Caliph, there are ten fequins of gold for it;wil that fatibfy you? the fiiherman was fo am m-ed at fuch a piece of gcnerofity, that' he almoftimagined e was in a dream; but putting the fe¬quins in his pocket, m\ lord, replied he tratfport-ed if. 1 were to have as mucnfor every draughtI flioultl loan be richer and more powerful thanthe fovereign commander of the faithful.The Cati -h fmiled at this comparifon : he »eRtto the {ho. e of the I'ygrisp entered into the nflifer-man s boat and, with his Viziar, having helpedhim to draw up his nets, he wa» very much tmaz-ed atjfinding in them the two little crumps ofDamafeus, and a Hick nr which was the third.A., adventure fo furprifing, (truck him witr\admiration. Since- this draught belongs to me,faid he to the fiihsrman,- who was'; « much fyr-jprifed as liijnfclf,*! ara refolded to carry it hopieCRUMP fWrTBfcTTT'HFL'KSr— 15ritb mr J but you muft lend us a hand. That;san ad ^ccei'v**! too g» at,{narks.p£ the- Calipli’aiberality to make the Icail foruplu of obeying him;he Vis tar and he took the one Ibad, and the o-:her Syaliouk by the feet, and threw them on their*boulders; an t the Caljph bimi'elt having fhoul*lered tbe. fack in wliioh seas Bah'ekan, tliey turn-jd back tp go to-the palacta, when they met tn©porter, who had a few moments before, thrownthe three brothers into thenTVgri*.s Watik billah was dropping wet with thejwater that ran put of the fack, 'he'ftoppcil the.porter and having forced him to eafe him of lasburden, he conducted him to a houfe »hich ach.jo ned to his palace. There it was, that the per.iter of B gdad, having by the words he fpske re¬lating to the three crumps; e*cited the Cadph’s«uriofi/y, he defi'red him to explain hirofe'f more;(clearly upon fo whimficle an aUVvnture.Sir, replied the porter, this explanation yonTequired jsnpt foealily made as you imagine. Themore 1 think of i^, the lels 1 und-,rftitnd it; how-•ever, you {hall have it juft as 1 think it happenedito me.Da you know, fir, faid the porter, the cuderj*vTt'ife that lives at the end of the (1 reet of the jew-tellers i No, replied the Caliph. You are no greatflpfcr by the bargain anfweied the porter; fheisKhe imfchievbufcft jade in all Bagdad: 1 weuldwillingly give the two ieqUins am mafter of tof have five or fix- 11 ps at her fojij chops, for-the[ trick ihe witch put upon me tins ni lit; though lambutpoor, .flioald Oeepthe betitr for it. i'hiscutler womaa then hutttuy, fince you do not'know her, I will draw you her pidure» Imagine,fir, thatyou havebeforeysur eyes a great wither-■td old woman, whh a tkin as blath a? a dried10^ HISTORY OF THE THRttE■cat’s tongue ; with a little fore he*d, and eyea fefar limit into her head, taat ’tis ieipoffiole to fee :Ihe has any without a telefcope Her nofe has fogreat kindoefsfor her.chin, that they are alwayskiffing one another; and hep mouth which exhales» c arming odour like that of brimildne, is fowide that it is not unlike a crocodile’s. Mullnot all this f. rm a complete betuty-? Withoutdoubt, faid the Caliph, who, th ugh impatient tohear the {lory of the three crumps, almoft diedwith laughing at the porter, s comiai defcription ; |you are fo excellent a painter that * -fancy ‘ fee Ithifccutler woman, and would lay a wager Icouldfind her out amongfta thonfand. Well then, fays |the porter, fince you kijow her now as well as ifyou had leen her, imagine *hat you fee this love¬ly creaturecovered with a great veil that hides allher perfeAions, come to cboofe we towards night’ at the foot of the bridge from amongft five or fix,•f my comrades and promife me in ray ear fourfequins if I would follow her. The defire of gainentices me ; I fly towards her houfe, go in withher: Ihe throws off her veil; I am frighte at thefight aimoft out of my wit*; (he certsinly per¬ceives it, and to encourage me, pops into my handa great flaggon of wine l own, fir, it was foexcellent, that without inquiring what country itcarne from emptied the flaggon. Yet I couldnot help trembling all the while L drank it; I wasafraid file had a mind to n ake me drunk, that IheBlight afterw ards debauch me, and get me to fpendthe night with her. ' nd it wa? not w thoutgrounds, that I feared this ; for Ihe carefled meenough to mtikeme believe it. After the wine;fhe brought me a-great bottle of date brandy Iliaaniouroufly pours out a large glafs full, which1 tipped oi without any more judo ; thenftie pr*-CRUMP rwiX-RROTHERS. ylpofed to me——But, ftay. Hay, I thiak I drunktwo glaflas *f brandy upon farther confidnrntion.Drink fir i yon wilt nfwcred the Caliph, fo v««do but make an end of year ftory. Hold you methere, fir, cried the porter, one cannot Iwallewdown brandy at that rate neither; ‘twillfly int*the bead : I am half drank with thofe two only,and you would have me here, after all that wine,tope down a bottle of brandy to boot: *o no, fir,I will do no fuch thin , thpugh the lover igwcommander of the faithful himfelf (hould b«g maupon hi* knees to dojt. But let u* return to ourflieep. So then it was that the cutler woman,feeing me gro * a little merry, a* one may fay,gave me to un^erftand, that a little crookad man,who came to he houfe to buy fome cutler a "• sre,had died fuddenly in hei (hop, and that fearingfile Ihould be accufed of having killtu him, Ibewould*g ve the four fcquins the h^d prorailed me,if I ouid throw him into the i ygr»** I ha* notdrank. I'o mach neither, but that I wasrefolved t»m?ke fure of my calh. 1 demanded two of thefequins in earneft ; the gave them me: 1 puts lit¬tle crump into ray tack, does as l# was bid. mini«ome back to take rhe red ot my money, whe*the (hows me a^ain the very fame man. I leaveyou to imagine, fir how much I was furpviicd.1 put him once more into my tack, carried him a-gain to the bridge, and choofing the mot rapidpart of the Itrenm, tofltd him in; and l was re¬turning te the cutler’s, when I again met thecrooked 'oad with a lanthorn in his hand, andmaking as if he was drunk. 1 grew weary off®much jelling, took hold of him roughly, and puth-iug him into my fack in.fpite of his teeth, tied upthe mouth of it, and flung him a third time int®the Tygris with my tack aad all, isaagiaiog tfektjS 1) 1 H s r0IlY'0F ' E three.would k#ep linn £i-om gtttin.?, out again., ! wentl>ac<tcr thecutl rtrnmnn -,t,A > uIVl. \caclc to- the'cutl r woman, ar.dioldlilr tioV \ n>ttthe crump,alive, ahd m wHaVUnHef I got rid ofJ3im. but mdead of j%y..ng tnt; ule two fcquius Vexpejted, file pretended to tear her hair in grief,and rnreatened to carry me before the Cady .for'having, drowned her hufhand. i never mindedher tears ; butfwore • would jiaVe my money. Imade a-bloody node about it; the neighbours ran*n at her cries ; ; took to my heels. I was goinghome, grumbling in the gizard very much, whenyo hr, lorced me to take up this faek uiiDn myhead, and bring it hither. •> Now, fir, continued the p*rter, you may eafilygnefs the cadle <Sf my fright v. lien at my arrivalhere, I fourld myfeif laden with the fahie manthat I had trree times flung into the Tygris, andbeheld alio two others fo like him, that ft is im,pomble to diitinguifli between them but by their- clothes. .^ CftKph could nut fie'into the hot*tom of this-idvemurt, he took abundance of plea¬sure in heaving the porter’s dory. Then havingvie -ad tke three brothers a little more aarrowly,.he‘thought he perceivftti^i them forne'figns.pl life,aiid fent immediately for a phvfician : l,e cainofoon atterwards, and finding that Ibad and ova-houk threw up with the water they bad fwallovvtod» great deal of brandy, he did npt doubt, as in-'deed it was true, but that their drunkenne s waa.the occafion of their being thought' dead. As forBabekan; nothing but 'want of air had aim oil fuf-foc ted him; but as fbon as his head was out ofthe hick he recovered by degrees; fa ihat in halfan heurs time his brothers and he were entirelyout of danger. 'Never was any body fo amazed as Babekan wa*CRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. *9at th- fight of hii brothers, who were laid uponfopha’s. Ha. almoft cracked his eye-firingsHaring .,t them,, and could not poffibly concciv«bow he came into that Ur^nge plac# with tliep*He luffered himfclf to be iifidrefled without utter¬ing a fingie word, > bile the fame was done to I-bad acd Syuhouk,The Csliph'having caufcd the three cramps tobe curried into different chambers, had them putto bed and locked up. Then he lent away thefilherman, and having ordered the Yuiar t,o keepthe porter, aodto ule him with great kindnefs heprepared to divert himfelf at the expence of thecrooked brothers arid the cutler woman, whom hearrefted nett^ morning by the break of dayTo heighten his diverfion, the Caliph caul’eilto be made that night, two fuits of clothes ex¬actly like that which Babekan wore when be wasthrown into the Tygris. He ordered them to beput upon ibad auusiyahouk, whole drunk.tn fitwas quite over, ondnemg all dreffed exactly alike,he placed them behind three different pieces ofhanging in a magnificent hall of the palace andgave orders^htit they fliou d be difeovered upoahis making a certain fignthe Yi-’-iar, who, with the p^rt'r and feveraVguards, had been early in the morning to arretkthe cutler s wife, brought her into the hall, wherethe Caliph was a ready placed upon his throne,lie elamined her » ith relation to what paffed be¬tween Her and the porter.- Slid told im ©ll.thathad happened without concealing a tittle of thetruth, and feemed very much concerned at thelots of her hufband. But faid the Caliph, is notthis a made ftory that you tell me ? how is it pof-Fible thefe-three crooked brothers Ihould be fo e*-attly alike that the porter flwald be deceived by20 HISTORY OF THE T JREEtho ’ ? /Vb. my Ion’., replied Mot.oud, he v/as half4runk 'when I employed him > and kefides, myfcufband and his brothers refemblt one another foperfcelly, that if they \ver» dreffe i in the lame•lotlies, I hardly thmk 1 myfelf could be ^ble toiiftinguifli one from the ether. That would be"ple&fam, indeed, laid the Caliph clapping Jiishand* ; J fhould be glad to be ipeftator of fuck*JJ interview.1 his was the fignal Watik-billah was to givefor the crumps to app“sr. Tht pieces of hang-ing were immediatdy pulledup, acd the cutlerefs.was ready to die with fea- at the fight. O heav¬en-' cried (be, what a prodigy is this ! do thedead come a ain to life ? i* rhia fn illufficn, n:yJord, and are my eyes faithful! teiiftr: onies of what'I fee ? You fee right replied Watik-billah; oneof thefe three is your huIBand, and the other two•re his hi others; you muft choofeout your ownfrom among them. View them well; but I for¬bid them, upon pain of death, to fpeak or makethe leaft fi, n.Nofo«d, in the otmoft perplexity, examinedthem one after another; (lie could not dillinguifkIjct hufb md: an : the Caliph, who was as »>ut hat a lofs to know them as Ihe, ordered him ofthe three that wa^ Habekan to come and embracehis wife, was very much f*rprifed to fee threecrumps all at once thro their arms roimd herneck, ted each of them affirm himlelf to oe her ihulbind.ibad and Syahouk were not ignorant that theywere in the preftnee of the fore reign conuwamleref the faithful; but whatever refpeft they owedhim they thought they could not be revenged ofBabe n better, than by trying to pafs for him; ’•nd this latter got nothing -by his rage »od paffionCRUMP TWIN-BROTHER?. xrfbr his tvv<> brothers obftinatel, pcrfitied in rob¬bing him o» his name.he Caliph could not help laughing at thiscomical co teft of the three cfumps; but havingat length renffumed his gravity; 1 hen would be.no fuch* dil’pute .mongyou, Hid he, which (houMlb« Babekan, ifycu knew that I want to dicing'iilhhim only to give him a thoufancl ballinadoe* forhis cruelty to his brotheVi and forlus forbiddinghxs wife to entertain them in his a'*fence.Watik-billah pronounced thale words in fo re-wr* a tone, that bad and Syaha«k thought it hightime to give over the jeft: If it be fo, my lord,faid each of them fepft-ately, we are no longerwhat vre pretended to be, with i defign to pnnithour brother far hn ill ufage of us: if there nr*any blows to be received, let him receive the*,for they are no mo: e than he d ferves: as for us,mv lord, we imp .ore \ out generolitv, and w e arein hopes that year auguit nsajefty, who never fitf.fer any t ctepartunfatisied, will have the goo*»aefs x o alleviate oar mifery and wantThe f 'aliph hen tnrew his eyesepoa Babckaa,■whoni he law n the greateft confufion. WfU,laid Iv to him. what UaR thou to fay for tnyfclf *Potent King, replied Habekaa with his face prof-tra’ed to ihe earth; whateverpunifliasenc I am t»loot jjt'or from your jnftice, I am neverthelefs th*hulband ofthis womaa; my crime is ftill the great¬er in that heiag the only caafe of the banifemenfc* of my brothers from the city of Daroafcus, for »mun^er, of which onrjretemblance hindered *eIri mbein. known the author. '■ oaght to hare lotthem participate hi tny good f rtune. as thei fcar-ed in my bad I but if a fir cere rep: ntance can ob¬tain my pardon ifEr from the hot tom of a^fkmn to give theca e*ud part* «f all tho M24 AN INSTANCE OFhave by my labour g;ired fince my arrival here at:|Bagdad; and I hope yoi r msjefty will pardon mylingratitude, upon account of the forrow it gives'f»e to have committed it-The CaTiph, who never intended to inflift any ■p'unifhtnent'upcfn Babekan, was very well pleafed ;to‘fee him in' this dtfpofition ; he therefore par»!doned himf and bein willing th <t lbad and Sya- |houk for the pleafure the> h*d given him, fliou dfeel rhe efFc&s of his libera ity, he caufed it toB« ’publilhed all over Bagdad that if there were anywomen who wouldmarry the two crump-brothers,he would giro them each two thoufand pieces ofgold. There were above twenty that Were readyto embrace fo confiderable a fortune; but Ibad andSynhouk having chofen out of that number thofethat they thought would fit them bell, received oftht Caliph twenty thowfard fetjuins mow, withwhich they traded in fellowfliip with Babekan;and thefe three brothers fpent the reft of theirdays i abundance and tranquility, under the pro-teQion of the fovereign commander of the faith¬ful, who was fo liberal to the porter, that he livedat his cafe tv- r after without having any oesafio®&r continuing his trade.  —-wawar* 4auaw ■  * "INSTANCEo rTURKISH JUSTICE.A Grocer ot the citv of Smyrna* had a fo*vwho, with tt« help of the itt < learning the•ountty c> uW «ff'>rd, rofe to the poft of naib, ordeputy to the Cady, or auyer tf the aity, vd ?«’TURKISH J'U-S T I C E. _ a?icVivifittdtl-sn ar.^cis rii.tl ii.fp^sd th( v eightsSLin afuTes <if ail retail oe.Vcrs. One day, as" ■ ffictr vcisjrojrf his rrmn-, s, the. neighbours,knd'.' trough;ot Jus Tati *r's chRiafier jo fuf-& that he n.ight hand in i eed of the caution,ifed hiir; to rruiove his w.t ight$ for Jearof the|rft: but the od cheat depending ,og„his re!a«n to the infgeftor, and lure, as he, thought,lat bis fon would not ex pole him to a public af-[pt laughed at their advice, and ftood veryImlV at his {hop-door,- waited for his coming,e naib how ver was well afjured. of the dilho-:y and unlair dealing of his father, and refolv-to deleft his v-ilLany ai)d make an example ofi: accordingly, ha llopt at the door, and faidto him, “ Good man, fetch out yoursight*, that we may examine them Infteadobeying, the grocer would ave fain put it offith a laugh, but was foon convinced his fon was■jous, by hearing him order the officers to fearcki fliop, and feeing them produce th* inftrumenta[his f "aud, which, after an impartial examina-bn, were openly condemned and broken to pie-:es. His fliafne and confnfion however, he hop-id would plead w ith a fon to excufe him all fur-fceir punifliment of his crime; but even this,kcugh entirely abitrary, the naib made as fever*u for the molt indifferent o(Tender, for he ferupneed him to a fine of.fifty, piaflres, and to re¬vive a baftinado of as many b ows on the foies o£is feet. All this was executed upon the fpot,“ftjr whilh the naib leaping from his horfe, threwimfelf at his feet, and watering them wi h hisart, addrefled him thus: “leather have dif-_ :d my duty t* my God, my fovereign, myttry, and my ftation; permit me no -, by myand fubmifton, to acquit Um debt k «nrc a‘ ** AN INSTANCE OF, &cp*re*t. Juftic* it blird, it it the power of Goion earth, it has no re, ard to father or Ion, Godand and oar neighbour s right are abore the tiesof nature, you had off a.ied againft the laws ofjuftice yoa defe-ved this punifhment, you wouldin the end received it tram (ome other* I amforr it wat yaur fate to have received it fromme my eaafeience wouU ik t fuflVr me to aft o-ftierwife ; behave etter for the future and x».Acad of Mamin.-, pity ay being reduced to f®«ruel a neeeffity.’ Thii done, he mounted hithorfe again, aad then continued hit jonrney, a»midit the aeclamationt and praifet of the wholeeity, for fo cxtraoi dinarv a piece of juftice ; re¬pot t of with being made to the Sublime Porte,the Sultan r .ded hi* to the poll of Cady; frot»whenee b) jlegree*, he rofe to c dignit ofMufti, who is the head of both ruligon and law* ong the Turks Were our dtalers in fuiallweights to be «iealt with accordin to the T urk-,Hh law, the poevr might not be f® »uck J*pofif€% upou as they are now. «-FINIS.