*1* ft EHISTORYO FWHITTINGTON,WHO WAS AFTERWARDSLORD MAYOR OF LONDON,AND HISCAT.i( Turn again Whittington,“ Lord Mayor of Great London”JF SCOUAHirnSTIRLING:PRINTED BY C. RANDALL*i3ouC a )THE HISTORYO FWHITTINGTON.DICK WHITTING TON was a verylitr'e hoy when his father and mother| died ; fo littl-e indeed* that he never knew them,nor the place where he \va$ born. He ftrolledabout the country as ragged as a colt, till he metwith a waggoner who was going to London,j and who gave him leave to walk all the way| by the fide of his waggon, without payingany thiiig^for his paflagej which obliged lit¬tle Whittmgfconyvpry much, as, he wanted tofee London fadly; .for he had heard that thefireets were paved with gold ; and he was wil-j ling to get a bufhet o! it; but how great was' Ins’difappointment, poor boy ! when he fawthe ftreefs covered with drrt, inftead of gold,and fopnd himfelf in a flrange place, withouta, friend, without food, and without money.Though*( 3 )Though the waggoner was fo charitable aspro let him walk up by the lide of the waggonIfor nothing, he took care not to know hintwhen he came to town, and the poor boy was,in a little time, fo cold- and fo hungry, thathe wifhed himfelf in a .good kitchen, and bya warm fire in the country.In this diftrefs he afked charity of feveralleople, and one of them bid him “ Go work1 for an idle rogue.’'—“ That I will,” faysWhittington, with all my heart : I willwork for you, if you w*iil tet me.”The man who thought this favoured of Witnd impertinence, tho’ the poor lad intend-d only to fhew his readinefs to work) gaveurn a blow with a Hick, which broke his head,ib that the blood ran down. In this fituationand fainting for want of food, he laid himfelfjlown at the door of one Mr Fitzwarren, a tner-thant, where the cook faw him, and being an,ill-natured hufley, ordered him to go about his^ufinefs,'or (he would fcald him_ At this timeMr Fitzwarren came from the Exchange, andaegan alfo to fcold at the poor boy, biddingaim to go to work.Whittington anfwered. That he Ihould be.glad( 4 )glad to work, if any body would employ him, 1and that he fhould be able if he could get fotne |viduals to eat; for he had had nothing for |three 'days, and he was a poor country boy, |and knew no body, and no body would em-1ploy him.He then endeavoured to get up, but he wasfo very weak, that he fell down again, which]excited fo much compaffioTi in the merchant,!that he ordered the fervants to take him in, 1and give him feme meat and drink, and let him ]help the cook to do"any dirty work, that fhe jhad to fet him about. People are too apt to-:jreproach thofe who beg, with being able ; but»give themfelves no concern to put them in away of getting bufmefs to do: or confideringwhether they are able to do it; which is not'charity. Think of this yc affluent.And ivhen the overplus of your fortunes difturhTour minds, think how little flops thehjh of penury' And makes the wretched happy !I remember a circumftance of this fort,whichSir William Thompfon told rnv father with' >,tears in his eyes, and it is fo’affecting, that I \lhail never forget it.SIORV—y 1(s yS T O R YO FSIR WILLIAM THOMPSON.“ When Sir William was in the plantationabroad, one of his iriends told him, he hadan indentured fervanr, whop* he had juftbought, that was his countryman, and a luftyman ; but he is lo idle-, fays hey that I cannotget him to work. Aye, fays Sir William,let me fee him. Accordingly they walked outtogether, and found' the man fitting on a heapof (tones Upon this, Sir William, after en¬quiring about his country, afked why he didnot go out to work ?—r-l am not able, anfweredthe man —Not able ! fays Sir William, I amfure you look very well : give him a few(tripes. Upon this, the Planter (truck himfeveral times, but the poor man (till kept his,feat.They then left him, to look ever the:'plantation.' exclaiming againft his obftinacypall the way tney went;—but how furprized[were they, cn theii* return^ to find the poorj man fallen off the place where he had beenfitting, and dead ! The cruelty, fays Sir Wit-Jiam, ot my ordering-the poor man to be beatenwhile in the agonies of death, lies always nextmymy heart. It is what I (hall never forget, andwill for ever prevent my judging raflily ofpeople who appear in diftrefs. How do weknow what our own children may come, to ?The Lord have mercy upon the poor, and de¬fend them from the Proud, the Incenfiderats,and the Avaricious,’*But we return to Whittington ; who wouldhave lived happy in this worthy family,'had ;he not been bumped about by the crofs cock, jwhomuhbealwaysroaftingorbafting, and when |the fpit was ftilJ, employed her hands upon Ipoof Whittington: ’till Mifs Alice, his Ma- ]fler’s daughter, was informed of it, and then jfhe had companion on the poor boy, and made !the fervants treat him kindly.Befides the crofihefs of the cook. Whitting- jton had another difficulty to get over before he jcould be happy. He had, by order of his Imailer, a flock bed placed for him, in a gar- Jret. where there were fuch a number of rats Jand mice, that they often ran over the poor ?boy’s nofe, and diflurbed him in his fleep.After fome time, however, a gentleman, who jcame to his maker’s houfe. gave Whittington a ^penny, for brufhing his ffioes. This he put jinto his pocket, being determined to lay it |out to the befl advantage ; and, the next day jfeeing a woman in the Itreets with a cat under lher( 7 )h£r arm, he ran up to her to know the priceof it. The woman, as the cat was a goodmoufer, afked a great deal of money for it' ^but on Whittington’s tilling her he had buta penny in the world, and that he wanted a catfadly—Ihe let Him have it,- 'This cat Whittington concealed in the gar~ret, for fear (he would be beat about by hismortal enemy, the cook,—and here (he foohkilled or frighted away the rats and mice, fothat the poor boy could now fleep as found-as a top.Soon after this, the merchant, who had a(hip ready to fail, called for his fervants, ashis cuftom wasr in order that each of themmight venture fomthing to try their luck;and whatever they font was to pay neitherfreight nor cuftom ; for h.e thought, juftly,,that God Almighty would blefs him the morefor his readinefs to let the poor partake of hi^fortune :“ He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the J^ordy,“ who •will return It fevcnfy fold.**_ All the fervants appeared but poor Whit¬tington, who had neither money nor goods,could not think of fending any thing to tryhis luck; but his good friend Mifs Alice,thinking his poverty kept him away, orderedhim to be called.-—<-She then offered to laydown.( 8 )down fomething for him, but the Merchanttold his daughter, that would not do ; for it •muft be fomething of his own. Upon which jpoor Whittington faid he had nothing but acat, which he had bought for a penny thatwas given him. “ Fetch thy cat, boy,” fays 1the Merchant, “ and fend her.” Whitting- 1ton brought poor pufs, and delivered her to 1the Captain with tears in his eyes, for he faid, *he (hould now be difturbed by the rats and 1mice as much as ever. All the company laugh- 1ed at the adventure, and Mifs Alice, phied 1the poor boy, gave him fomething to buy Ianother cat.While pufs was beating the billows at ha, Jpoor Whittington was feverely beaten at home |by his tyrannical miftrefs, the cook, who ufed jhim fb cruelly, and made fuch game of himfor fending his cat to fea, that at laft the poorboy determined to run away from his place, \and having packed up a few7 things he had,he fet out very early in the morning on Allhal- Jlow’s-Day. He travelled as far as Halloway,-jand there fat down upon a (tone to confider |what courfe he fhould take ; but while hewas thus ruminating, Bow Bells, of which 1there were only fix, began to ring ; and he jthought their founds addreffed him in this :manner :—Turn again Whittington,11 Lord Mayor of great London”“ Lord;;( 9 )“ Lord Mayor of London,” faid he, toI: himfelf, “ what would not one endure to be1“ Lord Mayor of London, andrideinfuchafine* “ coach 1! Well, I’ll go back again, and bear‘t “ all the pummelling and ill-ulage of Cicely,“ rather than mifs the opportunity of being'! “ Lord Mayor V*—So home he went, andI happily got into the houfe and about his bufr-| nefs before Mrs Cicely made her appearance.We muft now follow Mifs Pufs to the coaffcI of Africa, to tha t coaft where Dido expired forlofc of tineas. How perilous are voyagesat fea, how uncertain the winds and the waves,L and how many accidents attend a naval life !The fhip, which hsd the cat on board,jil was long beaten at fea, and at laft, by contra-■ ry winds, driven on a part of the coaft of Bar-i bary, which was inhabited by Moors unknownh to the Engiifh. rhefe people received our; countrymen with - civility, and therefore the; captain, in order to trade with them, (hewed■ them patterns of the goods he had on board,I and fent fome of them tea the king of the country,> who \»’as fo well pleafed, that he fent for theCaptain and the Factor to his palace whichwas about a mile from the lea. Htre .they[ were placed, according to the cuftom of tbe%un- ]i try. on rich carpets, flowered with gold and ;filver ; and the king and queen beiug feaied Ii at the upper end of the room, dinner was j;brought. Ibrought in, which confifted of many diflies j,]but no fooner were the diflies put down, but 1an amazing number of rats and mice camelfrom all quarters, aud devoured all the meatin an inftant. The fadlor in furprife turnedround to the nobles, and afked,“ If thefe yer-1min were not olfenflve ? ’—,£ O )es,,, faid |they, <c very offenfive, and the king would |“ give half his treafure to be freed of them j I* for they not only deftroy his dinner, as you. i“ fee, but they alfault him in his chamber, '“ and even in bed, fo that he is obliged to be |watched while he is fleeping, for fear of |“ them/' §The fadlor jumped for joy ; he remem-,bered poor Whittington and his cat, and toldthe king he had a creature on board the fhipthat would difpatch all thefe vermin immedi¬ately. The king’s heart heaved fo high at thejoy which this news gave him, that his turbandropped off his head'! “Bring this creature to« me,” fays he, “ vermin are dreadful in a“ court, and if die wdll perform what you« fay, I will load your fliip with gold and jewels“ in exchange for her.” I he faftor, whoknew his buiinefs, took this opportunity to fetforth the merits of Mrs Pufs. He told hisMajefty, “ that it would be inconvenient“ to part with her, as when flie was gone, therats and mice might deflroy the goods in his“ Ihip* ‘4 fhip—but to oblige his majefly he would* “ fetch her”—‘ Run, run.‘ faid the queen,* “ 1 am impatient to fee the dear creature.”^ /iway flew the fador, while another diniTerr was providing, and returned with the cat,p juft as the rats and mice were devouring tfiat$j alfo. He immediately put do}vn Mrs Piifs,•i:! who killed a great number of them.The king rejoiced greatly to fee his old e-nemies deftroyed by Ip fmall a- creature, andthe queen was highly pleafed, and defired thecat might be brought near, that flie mightlook at her. Upon which, the fa&or called“ Pufley, pufiey, pufiey,” and (he came tohim. He then prefented her to the queen,who ftarted back, and was afraid to touch acreature who.had made fuch 3 havock amongthe rats andmicer; however, when the fadorItroked the cat, and called* tc Pufley, pulley,pufley,” the queen allb touched her, andcried, “ Puttey, puttey,” for flie had noflearned Englilh.He then put her down on the queen’s lap,r where (he purring, played with her Majefty'sV hand, and then fung herfelf to fleep,The king having feen the exploits of MrsPufs,p( TPuft, ar.l being informed that fhe was with |young, and would flock the whole country, 'bargained with the captain and factor for the |whole fir’p’s cargo, and tlich gave them ten |times as much for the cat as all the reft amoun- ited to With which, taking leave, of their !Majesties, arid other great pertonages at coprt, 1they failed with a fair wind for England, w hither iw^e mufl now attend them.The morn had fcarcely dawned, when MrFitzwarren dole from the bed of his belovedwife, to count over the cafh, and let tie thebufmefs for the day. He had juft entered thecompting-houfe and feated himlelf at his defk,when fomebody came, tap, tap, tap, at thedoor. ‘‘ Who’s there,” fays Mr Fitzwarren,—lt A Friend,” anlvvered the other, ‘‘ What“ friend can come at this,unfeafonabletime?”—■*' A real ifiend is never unfeafonable,” an^fwered the other. “ I come to bring you goodnews of the (hip Unicom.” The merchant burfiled up in fuch a hurry that he forgot his gout;inflamly Opened the door, and who fhould be, jfeen waiting but the captain and factor, with a icabinet of jewels, and a bill of lading? for whichthe merchant lifted up his eyes, and thankedheaven for feeding him fuch a pfofperous jvoyage. Then they told him the adventures |• of the cat, fhewed him the cabinet of jewelswhich they had brought for Mr Whiuingto».Upon j( *3 )\Jpon which he cried out with great earneftnefsbut not in the moft poetical manner,_ “ Go call him, and tell him cf his fame,« And call him Mr Whittington by name?It is not our bufmefs to animadvert upotl. thefe lines; we are not cri'ics, but hiftorians.[ It is fufficient for us, that thefe are the words| of Mr Fitz warren ; and though it is befide our, purpofe. and perhaps not in our power toi prove him a good poet, we (hall foon convince< the reader tltat he was a good'man, which was: a much better character ; for when fomc1 who were prefent, told him that this treafure| was too much for fuch a poor boy as Whitting¬ton, he faid, “ God forbid that I fiiould| “ deprive him of a penny, it is all his own,; and he (h^Il have it all to a farthing ” He! then ordered Mr Whittington in, who was[ at this time cleaning the kitchen, and wouldI have excufed bithfcif from going info the par*- lour, faying, L'he room Was rubbed, and his(hoes were dirty and full of hob-nails. The{ merchant, however, made him come in, andordered a chair to.be tec for him. Upon which,thinking they intended to make fport of him,as had been too. often the cTe imhekitchen, hebefought his mafler not to mock a poor fimple-fellow, who intended them no harm, but tolet him go about his bufmefs. The merchant,taking.( U )taking hinvby the hand faid, “ Indeed, Mr.“ VVhit-tington, I am in earneft with you, and“ fent for you to congratulate you on yourgreat fuccefs. V'our cat has produced you“ more money than l aiii worth in the world,** and may you lortg enjoy it and be happy.”At length being /hewn the treafure, andconvinced by them that all of it belhnged tohim, he fell upon his knees, and thanked theAlmighty for his providential care offuch a poor miferable creature. He then laidall the treafure at his mailer’s feet, who refu-fed to take any part of it, but told him heheartily rejoiced at his profpauy, and hopedthe wealth he had acquired would be a com¬fort to him and make him i appy. He theftapplied to his miftrefs and to his good friendMifs Alice, who refufed ro take any part ofthe money, but told him die really rejoiced atKis good fuc'cefs, and wifhed him all imagina¬ble felicity. He then gratified the captain,fa£lor. and {hip’s -crew, for the care they hadtaken of his cargo, didributed prcfents to allthe fen ants in the houfe not forgetting evenhis old enemy the cook, though the little de-ferved it.After this, Mr Fitzwarren advifed Mr Whit¬tington to fend for the neceffary people, anddrels himfdf like a gentleman, and made himtheC ^ )e offer of his houfe to live in, till he couldovide himfelf with a better. Now it camepafs, that when Mr Whittington’s face wasaffied, his hair curled, and dfeffed in a richit of clothes, that he turned out a genteeljung fellow, and as wealth contributes muchj give a man confidence, he, in a little time[opped that flieepifh behaviour which wasjincipally occafioiied by a depreffion of fpi-|s, and foon grew a fprightly and good com-Inion, infomuch that Mifs Alice, who hadjrmerly feen him with ail eye of compaffion,i»w viewed him with other eyes, which, per-fps, was in fome meafure occafioned by his:Kadinefs to oblige her, and by continually ma-iig her prefents of fuch things as he thoughttiiuld be agreeable.When her father perceived they had thisbd liking for each Other, he propofed aItch between them, to which bc^th partiesiarfully confented, and the Lord Mayor,"lirt of Alderman, Sheriffs, the CompanyStationers, and a number of eminent .mcr*Bits attended the ceremony, and were ele-»Ijtly treated at an entertainment made forhr purpofe..Aftory tells us that they*lived happy, andfeveral children, that he was Sheriff of| don in the year 1340/and'then Lord Mayortha^( IS )that in tlie iafl; year of his Mayoralty, he en¬tertained King Henry Vth, and his QaeenJafter his conqued of France Upon whichioccafion, the king, in coafideration of Whit-jtington’s msrit, faid, " Never had princej“ fuch a fubjetd,” which, being told to Whitvtington at the table, he replied, “ Never had.“ fubje£t fuch a king.’* He conftantly fed,great numbers of poor. He built a churchand a college to it with a yearly allowance forpoor fcholars; and near it, ereded an hofpitaUHe built Newgate for criminals, and gave li--ibefally to St. B irtholomew’s hofpital, and to, tother public charities.