ALLANTHE FREEBOOTER;OR, THEWitch of Glenross :WITH AX ACCOUNT OF THE SUFFERINGS OFRODERICK,THE LAIRD OF GLE' ROSS,AND HISDESTRUCTION OF THE• * » 'PRINCELY HALL OF GLENROSS,AND THEMARRIAGE OF THEIR DAUGHTER HELENTO THEFREEBOOTER.FALKIRK ;FRINTED AND SOLD BY T. JOHNSTON.Allan, the Freehooter.Ok a jutting promontory of one of the most exter.sr jmountains of Caledonia, arose the* proud turrets jtlGlenross Castle, rendered by nature almost impregnab’*lude precipices and imprevrous wilds surrounding it <|iall sides, and gave an sir of romantic granduer to f|[scene, perhaps unequalled, Roderick, although pcisessing almost regal power, was a pray to cares ; l|fnights were nights of watchfulness, his days canker|:with a sorrow, but ill disguised beneath the mask Ijlrevelry and magnificence. In vain did the ancient harptsing the heroic deeds of his ancestors; in vain did livaulted hails re.wund with the shouts of the vassals i|the prosperity of their lord ; they but reminded him tillbe bad no heir to inherit his honors, and that the ancieUname of Strathmore tvou d expire with himself; tjLady Malvina, to whom he had been wedded nine yeawas grown irksome to him; her mild virtues failedsecure bis esteem, and a form still the loveliest Ca!,donia could boast, inspired but disgust. In vain tjjshe renew her vows to tier patron saint—the day arriv||on which Roderick completed his five aud thirtieth ytjjwithout promise of an heir: the day was spent by !|lassembled vassals in mirth and festivity, and as the ||replenished goblet passed the board, “ May our lordl[1blessed with an heir to his virtues and honors,’ bu||spontaneously from every lip. Roderick, with a fansmite, bowed his head to the salutation; but the w||rankled like a barbed arrow in his heart, and tow |evening he ieft the festive board, and stole unheerir;im the castle to calm the agitation of his mind14roiitude. Immersed in gloomy reflections, he hihis steps unconsciously toward a thick wood, wbf. iothed with hardy evergreens one side of Gleni I:steep, till stopped in his career by a precipice, |leaned against a clump of fir trees, and his eyes w Idered over the distant scenery now fast receding in jishades of twilight, while his thoughts were employee!]on the subject nearest his heart. He had stood severalminutes in an attitude of listless langour when he was[suddenly aroused from his reverie by a voice whichexclaimed, in a deep hollow tone that vibrated on his(heart. — “ Why has Roderick ot Gienross left the festive]board to wander amidsts these shades?” He startedand beheld at a few paces distance a female figure, wild](and uncouthy habited, the superabundance of her black](draperies almost concealed her form, yet it appeared of a(gigantic height; long tresses, dark as the raven’s wing,dowed in disorder over her shoulders; one of her armsdwas enveloped beneath her sable habiliments, whilst thellother, which was naked, held extended an ebony wand fidler face appeared haggard and cadaverous ; the deep-utning gloom obscured her features, but her fierce darknjeyes possessed the power of enchantment, and shenhad tepeated her question before Roderick couldiigain sufficient composure .answer her. At lengthi■ “ Who art thou,” he exclaimed, ‘-and by what rightudost thou question Roderick of Gh nro'ss ?” “ By the((fight of a superior,” replied the figure : “ Roderick, 1fknow thy inmost thoughts ; the want of an heir dasheil(iwith poison the balmy cup which fortune [daces at thyplip, yet ere the anniversary of this day, Roderick, thybardentwish shall be accomplished; but its fulfilments wiiithrove the bane of all thy hopes, thy child shail be thineneir. yet not thine heir, and the meturity of thy darlingJrhall level the toweis of Glenro»s with the dust ! Seeliiehold !—the pride of the mighty one is fallen. the■ mwering falcon seeks a shelter beneath the wing of thdievening kite—the flames burst forth !—the night raveniIjereams round the devoted battlements !—and all ijIccomplished !” Wildly she shrieked as if beholding !/hat her words foretold;—terrified and appalled,‘Rode- jick cast bis eyes towards the cattle, almost expecting to Ijee it wrapped in flames: the turrets still frowned in!loomy grandeur, and he turned again towards the tie. ^ouncer of future evils, but she was no more to be seen , |e looked around, a steep piecipice was before him, „ I' ® lllong avenue of trees surrounded with impenetrable un jderwood, behind. He had taken his eyes buta momerilfrom the mysterious figure, and it had eluded him;—he Iwild shriek still rung in his ears, and was contrasted bjthe gloomy silence ef all around; and it was severdminutes ere he could regain his fortitude, and recal tblwords of the figure,-“ Your child shall be your heir,—“ Yet not your heir.“ The obscurity of this,” exclaimed Roderick,not penetrate.”“ I canIe: The towering falcon shall seek shelter“ From the ravening kite.”A falcon was the crest of the Laird ofGlenrbss; ye [this was equally inexplicable.”When the long expected hour arrived, Malvina was fca time dangerously indisposed, whilst Roderick, whos jagitation was too great to permit him to retire, pacejjimpatiently the marble hall of the castle : at length hjbeheld Maud (a faithful old servant) slowly descendinlj,the lofty staircase: precipitately he flew to meet her—-jsmile lighted up her lace—“ Joy to my lord !” she crie* i' • May the race of Strathmore extend to the end of tiny ia lovely boy and girl are added to your hbuse !” 'boy!” repeated Roderick, ‘Is there indeed a bojf“ Yes, my lord, and a lovely girl.” Roderick madefianswer, but instantly flew to announce the birth of nson to his vassals, whilst the existence of the girl rmained unnoticed by him. The boy he called Wallacin the remembranceofoneofthemost renowned of his acetors ; but left the nameing of the girl to Malvma, wlwith a mothers fondness, fancying a promise of super:lovtliaess in her darling, christened her Helen.Roderick marched at the head of his valiant barjtill they neared an extensive vale which stretchiitself at the feet of Ruthven Castle: they had seaictjuitted the rocky defile which led to it, before the sounds, f warlike tumult struck their ears, and they perceived:ie clan of Ruthven engaged in mortal conflict with the^Dowers of Alan, the Freebooter, (surnamed the In-: incible), the clan of Strathmore, with Roderick at their |i ead, instantly uttered an exaulting shout, and rushediimultuously to the fight. The shades of evening weio jlow fast advancing, and the Freebooters appeared likely■ |) be the victorious party; Allan, by a pretended flight, jl• iad contrived to allure the Laird of Ruthven with his jjibllowers to a distance from the castle ; a party of thef|iareebooters which had lain in ambush'then appeared ’jpd investing the walls, prevented their return.I The wounds of Allan, though dressed by a skilful;^girgeon, prevented his tasting repose; but the wound jlihich rankled most at his heart, was the one his fame ||ad sustained,—no longei could he be termed Invin-j§li,ble,—ant^ as the distant sounds of revelry assailed jj1its ear, he imprecated curses on his conqueror, and ifm required all the strength of his guards to prevent hislfaring the bandages from his wounds, and destroying |; violence a life grown hateful to himself. A fort-Ight had nearly elapsed when Allan sent a message tofoderick, that as he felt hiuasolf sufficiently recovered!r a removal, he should the next day claim the promise Ifreedom, which Roderick in answer assured him!muld be complied with.Tire following morning Roderick bade adieu to Rutb'jm, ejpd insafety arrived within ash ort distance of his own tistle, when he dispatched his attendants onward to!ive notice of his approach. The evening was fast closing;'id he had just entered the v/ood which clothed Glen-ljiss steep, the umbrageous foliage of which closing overH is head, excluded the last rays of the departing sun, and-eepened the approaching twilight to the gloom oFght, when his thoughts recurred to the seeming myste-’' which inveloped the freebooter, Roderick proceeded-aconscious of his route; when suddenly something;ipeared to flit before him ; he started involuntarily, andokineLground with a s&nsation .of alarm, a few pace/a-Lfiifore him he beheld the mysterious figure which inie same wood hail foretold to him the birth of an heir.An indescribable terror oppressed him. and be stoodlently gazed i n the figure without p-ower to address! ;—her eyes were fixed upon him with a look of the1 ost appalling and fiendlike exultation. “Roderick hasbne well,” she exclaimed, “he has preserved tho. kitetat shall bear away the dove within its talents remem-■ brest thou how prophetic were my words ? Roderick'f Glenross attend to me now!—the deed is donehich at once destroys, anjl wraps in fancied security> ! thy high raised hopes.— Hark !—hearest thou not'it: kudl oTthe race of Strathmore ?—mighty Roderick,,n onecondition I wiibbethy friend, and all these threa-;ned evils may be averted; tear that brilliant cross; |om t!iy bosom, trample it under thy feet—then kneelSad worship me !”, The figure paused as if expecting an answer, hut[dloderick. enraged, instantly drewbis sword. “ Wretch,e exclaimed. At th«t moment, a sudden film seemed toass before his eyes, he taised his hand to his fat e andistantl^removed it. a loud and demoniac laugh rangi his ears, but the figure hgd vanished.The words of the mysterious figure rung in his ears.—! ’.Hearest thou not the knell of the race of Strathmore? ii —my Boy!” he exclaimed ; and as the hollow soundId the death-bell floated heavily on the gale, the heartf Roderick was cold as the icy form for whicit it tolled.Roderick, imagining his worst fears confirmed^waseveral minutes before he could articulate “ My wife-—iy boy,” Are well,” replied the weeping nurse.for whom then are those sounds? and why does toe»hle banner fl.-iat over the battlements of Glenross ?’jYour daughter, the infant Helen,” replied Maud, “hasl oathed her last.” A mountain seemed taken fiom theroast of Roderick, and he attempted n»t to veil his rap- sires t>s ho soothed the increasing agitation of Maud, j|ie supported herself, as she Jed the way to the lady 1lulvina’s apartment.-WaiW n.,i xmrrr 1 v attained the age of fit teen, whenlaud was summoned to p&y the debt of nature, and in■r dj'ing moments she requested to see the b'oomiftg!a!lacc. Roderick, who had visited her chamber, fofee a last leave of so oid and devoted a domestic, wasandi bsent when she made her request, and anxious toi latify a wish urged with almost convulsive earnestness,y retired, and sent the youth to her chamber ; the at-iiidanls were instantly dismissed, and Mauu left withlly the lady Malvina and her son. ,jloderick. almost distracted at beholding a conduct so1 (■posite to Ids wishes, received with pleasure an in-i.ation from Malcolm of Ruthven, to celebrate the birth-Jy of a daughter, which had been born to him shortlyer the affair of Allan the Freebooter, and. as site wasw about to complete her fourteenth year, Roderick |jastafttly determined upon taking Wallace with him, |ijpinn that a change ot scene might restore his wonted linjeerfulnes?.. Wallace reluctantly made preparations Ps.- the journey, he would have preferred the company of3 mother to the promised festivities, but the will of :■ie laird of Glenross was absolute, and in a few days |id bade adieu to his native towers, and accompanied by :1 !y two domestics, they reached the ancient Castle of!I uthven in safety. Malcolm & Gertrude received them Ijith unfeigned pleasure; the beauty of Wallace seemed [strike them with surprise and admiration, and send-{ for Edwin, and their daughter Madeline, introduced |young people to each other.—Edwin was a hand- 1manly youth of eighteen, generous, noble, and |ii i stancewarmest!imated, but an air of fferceness and hauteur threwrud over iiis good qualities, and cast at a '•irrse who would otherwise have been his[ends.— Madeline was a pretty interesting brunette, itose character as yet only displayed excessive gen-ness and timidity. Edwin immediately attached him-^f to Wallace with all the enthusiastic warmth of his;aracterj but Wallace appeared to shrink from the bois-' .ous effusions of his friendship, and to prefer the£eiety of the blushing Madeline. Their increasing par-:lity for each other gave both Roderick and Malcolmthe most unfeigned pleasure; death had rendered vohtheir former engagement of uniting Edwin and Helen |but in Wallace and Madeline their hopes were reriewecand before they separated for the night, it was resolvedjthat on the day that Wallace became eighteen, theijunion should take place.The birth-day of Madeline was kept with the utmost festivity, and, in the evening, the heroine of the dayoff the dance with the graceful Wallace, with all th li hilarity of youth and innocence. Roderick & Malcolnr[stood observing them, sometimes their hearts glowinu[with pride at the admiration they excited, and forinlf ing plans for their future happiness, when they werlr summoned to the hall by a domestic, who informeil|them a courier had just arrived from Glenross, wbi| demanded to see his lord immediately.Roderick alarmed, hastened to the messenger, wb|informed him the lady Malvina was dangerously indt's:!|posed, and required his immediate presence at GlenrossThe night was dark and stormy, yet Roderick determinon departing instantly, but fearful of exposing Wailiediross,‘lace to the rigour of the night, he agreed with MalcolmI to leave his son at Ruthven till the arrival of som*j faithful vassals; who, immediately on his reaching Glenhe would despatch to escort him home.When Roderick arrived at the Castle, every one apdIpeared afraid to mention the cause of their alarm, an«li he demanded the reason of their fears. Andrew, t;>i!d warden, summoned sufficient courage to replfiiE Banshee” my lord, “ Fool,” hastily replie*^Roderick ! (every one seemed now to recover frontheir panic,) for all, as with one voice, cried indeetmy lord, we all heard it.!”—Roberick paused for a fenmoments, a sudden thought having crossed his mindand he shuddered, as he inquired what they had heardThe Banshee, my loid,” replied Andrew, “I askeryou what were the words you pretended to hear.” Titwords my lord ; why in a voice like thunder it exclaim,r "9“ Woe to tlie race of Strathmore!”“ Woe to the GolJeh Falcon !“ Woe to the turrets of Glenross !”The appalling looks of their lord now seemed as an ex¬cuse to the trembling domestics for their own fears, andnstantly surrounded him, each endeavouring to explainriis own particular cause of terror When heard you this”' juestioned Roderick : “ the three last nights,” repliedAndrew, “it has resounded throughout every apartmentif the castle, from the hours of twelve till two ; excepthe bed-chamber of the lady Maivina, and though it hasfried at her very door, she, sweet saint, never appearedto hear it: indeed old Janet, who is her head nurse“ ays she always falls asleep just before it begins to cry,iiind never awakes till it vanishes. “Vanishes! has anyjimeseen ityet?” “No, my lord, but it certainly vanishesJio'r as soon as she old turret clock strikes two, it givesIt hideous scream near the castle gate, and all is quiettgain.” Roderick, fho’ shuddering at the remembrance!,>f a predietion which now seemed about to be verified,iinade a strong effort to dispel the alarm he had not been>j ble to conceal, and again demanded them to attend him,I, o his chamber.Some timfe after this a domestic running toward him,pesougbt him to hasten to his lady, who theyras in the agonies of death. As she beheld the en-rance of her lord, she made an effort to raise herself.ll»ut the exertion was too much for her strength, andjhe a^in fainted.- After she recovered, a faintjmile irradiated the pale countenance of the expiring!aint; she cast her eyes ‘towards heaven, then rested!fiem on the crucifix; her lips quivered, a slight con-!ulslon agitated her fraine, and a heap of dust was alii|hat remained of the once lovely Malvina. It was neaivening when the vassals sent to escort Wallace arrivedt Ruthven, but the youth no sooner understood theanjjer of his mother, than he determined on departingistantly; nor could all thp persuasions of Malcolm oldshe fearful eyes of Madeline turn him from his purpose,The party came to an opening which led through af10extensive forest, and YVailaee, secure of the road, hastened on as fast as his steed could carry him, >vhilst his.vassals in vain endeavoured to make their tired beastsovertake him.He had proceeded for some time, his thoughts whol’taken up with reflections on his mother‘s illness, whehe was startled by a shrill whistle, almost close to himhe stopped instantly, & heard it answered by another aa little distance ; he would have turned his horse to retrace his steps, but was prevented by several men, whspringing from the hedge that skirted the road, seizethis brittle, and by threats and imprecations ccmmandeIsilence. One of them turned his horse from the road,|land led him rapidly through the mazes of the forest: hif was led or rather dragged along with the utmost speed,!still his spirits totally failing him, he fell senseless fro:his saddle. One of the men then giving him a heart|curse for his pusillanimity, picked him up and obserVin1 by way of extinuation, “ that it was but a hoy,” mounted the horse, placed him before himself, aud continue'their route.As soon as Malvina expired, Roderick retired tc|his own apartment, sincerely grieved at her last reque:When night came lie dismissed his harassed attendants!to their beds, determined to watch for a repetition of thejawful threatenings denounced against his race. Impatiently he paced his chamber, anxiously listening tcievery sound, and resolved to follow the voice in whatever part of the castle it might be heard, but the silencecontinued undisturbed till the bright beams of morninggleamed through the casement..As he passed through the hall, he heard the voice oold Andrew' at the gate, uttering an exclamationhorror or surprise. Hastily he went forward, and be:jheld the vassals whom he had dispatched for Wallacebut. Wallace was not with them, and their fear-struelcountenances, added to the tears which rolled dowithe reverend face of the old warder, spoke volume j[of misery to his heart.The untimely death of his son was the only idea tha11rossed his mhid, and, issuing immediate orders for hi*ian to assemble, he gave directions for Malvina to liei state till his return ; and before noon, attended by anumerous band, he quitted Glenross, directing his routeip the forest..It was near evening when they reached the spot,‘ointed out by the attendants as the place where VV*1-uce was torn (rom them. The clan separated in twoiivisions, and strict search was made throughout everynart of the forest; but in vain ! the fugitive could note found, though his horse, stripi of his trappings, wasiscovered loose in the woods.Night arrived without any farther information, andliter erecting a small tent for the shelter of their lord,are tired vassals kindled a fire, stretched themselves(round it, and forgot-the fatigues of the day in sound re-iiose. Roderick stood leaning on his spear and musingn his loss, when a sudden blast-of wind blew the al¬most expiring embers into a blaze, and by the reflectionf its light, he beheld standing near the flame, the hage had twice before beheld in the woods of Glenross..'he fire cast a blue, and supernatural appearance overer figure, and as he gazed on her, Roderick s fortitudersook him and superstitious fears blanched his cheeksAt length he gained sufficient composure to utterMysterious Being, who art thou for ever the harbinger-ill, tVho art thou?’ “ Thy evil genius, Roderick:returned the hag), thy murmurs against the supremeisposer of all events, has given me power over lhee.|toderick enjoyed not the blessings lie possessed, Rode-Jick pined for an heir:—Whom seekest thou laird ofjilenross ; the son of Strathmore 1 fifteen years ago, in!ilie woods of Glent oss thouheardst his knell!” '• Slave!;!—liar! (ejaculated Roderick) what ho! my faithfulassals, rise and secure this wretch !” As he spoke, hepproached her: but exterding her arm, she touchedis spear with his hand, md brittle as gl :ss it shivereda countless atoms, whist spell-bound, he remainednoted to the spot, ‘hen waving her wand overlooping vassaU, sh' cxclaimeu—“ Till the sunthe;12the eastern horizon, sleep on!—Rodertcl, when thoagain beholdest me, the event df my predictions wilf’biat hr.od, and the turrets of Glenross will be delivered tithe flames; but already it is in part accomplished, the!dove is within the gripe of the ravening kite. Returfwith the dawn of day to thy home, Wallace of Glenrotis no more;“ Woe to the race of Strathmore.”<! Woe to the Golden Falcon,”“ Woe to the turrets of Glenross!’As she .‘poke, a furious blast blew far and wide thesparkling embers of the fire, a cloud passed over theI bright luminary of night, and the scene was envelopecI in total darkness.The freebooters who had seized Wallace bore himjf still insensible, to the verge of the forest, and halted a-' the footofthestupendousmountain, whoseperpendiculaij| and craggy shies, defied the efforts of the most adven'turous to ascend. ^ — ~ '—'*rfrom his side, blewanswered from theOne of them then taking a buglea long and shrill blast, which wasnucTctu ..un, vne sumiirit of the precipice, and ira few moments tire trunk of an old oak which grew allthe foot, and appeared almost coeval with time, slswlj!unclosed, and discovered a long passage sufficient!wide to allow two persons to walk abreast.The steed of Wallace was then stript of its trappingsand turned loose into the wood, whilst the man bearinhim in their arms, entered the aperture, which irmneHdiateiy closed after them. The passage was lighted by1numerous lamps, at regular distances, and windingroundthe rock, ended in a cavern of immense extent, loftand lighted as the passage.The captain, who was reclining on a couch, arose at]their entrance, and the men laid Wallace on the seat hhad quitted. “ Who hav* we here ?” he exclaimed“ The boy you directed us h way-lay,” replied Samson. •< You are mistaken, this yiuth I know not: how col 1he is, and how came this contu-ion on his forehead, didI not command you to use no viuehce ?” “ Nor did weCaptain; he tumbled from his hor» wjth fright, if he isISSthat is the cause of it,” “ Where is Ambrose r” (in-pted the captain) '• At supper in the cavern.” re-i a domestic. Go and tell him to bring his lancetsr instantly ! ’ “ Willingly,” (replied Bridget,) andming to Ambrose, she told him that he must go and!(1 an angel that was lying dead in the Captain’shilst he prepared his lancets, the Captain took offDonnet of the insensible youth, and his redundant| rn tresses fell lose over his shoulders. Bridget,u could not conceal her admiration, now offered herfpes. and proceeding to take off his jacket, screamed|.surprise, as the.bosom of his shirt falling openjmvered that Wallace, the heir of Glenross, was aMar\ and one of the loveliest of her sex.ic surprize of all present did not prevent Ambrosepreforming his operation with great dexterity :ileod flowed freely, and in a few minutes, Wallaceis we shall in futuro call her, Helen) gave signs ofning animation. The Captain then made all exceptget quite the apartment, and in a few minutes shejtted her eyes, and gazed wildly around her. The|lam was so much lost in admiration, and Bridget inpiishment, they hesitated to address her, but theirest gaze drew her attention to her own disordered~>n, which she no sooaer perceived, but guessed thevery which had been made, she uttered a screamterror and surprize, and relapsed into a state of insen-tety. Ambrose was again summoned, but for somahis skill was exerted in vain, as she fell from one|i;ing fit into another, till nature being exhausted,■flbecame quiet.''t was a late hour of the morning, when the effectsTie potion she had taken, ceased; and she awoke1 k and feeble, and looked wildly around withoutprehending what had befallen her, but the sight ofIget brought to her memory the events of the pre-mg evening, the death of Malvina also crossed herd, and .hastily starting from her bed, she exclaimed, jk ! if you have either pity or humanity, suffer me toHJquit this place, let me instantly depart for Glenr“ Oh ! the virgin !” returned Krid^et, “ I tear it jbe a long time lady ‘before you see Gienross ; you tprisoner here tor life!” “ For life !” (repeated Hel>“ Yes, lady, for life! No female that enters these cavever again quite them except upon two occasions, tmarried, or be buried, and in the first place they gn1further than a little chapel in the centre of the rotand instantly return ; for should they attempt to esciour men are all sworn, and must plunge their dirksthe bosom of the fugitive( Helen shuddered), “the priesr—Oh! he is a holy man, and lives in a 1mitage close by, devoted to a life of penance, he beloto the clan of our lord, and is a great friend ofmoreover,” “ Your lord !” interrupted Helen, ‘ Wdid I say my lord ?” replied Bridget, in confusion, ‘Captain, I meant.” “Well, no matter, can"! seeCaptain ?” “ Oh yes, I dare say you can my lady, Igo and enquire.”He was a man, who appeared about six-and-tweitall, muscular, and formed with such symmetry, thatevery movement was easy and graceful, and duringrepast which had been previously prepared, he glanhis eyes towards her, and the heart of the experiemHelen felt their power, and surrendered itself withoustruggle for liberty.As-soon as their repast was finished, the Captaintreated to know what unfortunate accident had fobher to assume the disguise he saw her in, and whenassured him, it was the dress she had worn fronibirth, his looks expressed her astonishment. In as acise a manner as possible, she then informed him, ther twine brother dying in his infancy, her mother dr©ing the excess of her lord’s grief and disappointment,!yielded to the entreaties of her nurse, and substitutedher female infant, in his room : she added, that the <tinual attention necessary to conceal the secret, had ifiermined the health of her mother, to whom shegoing when his men siezed, and brought her tocavern. He then enquired her name ; from habit,J15red, “Wallace, the only child of Roderick Strath-i laird ofGlenross.” She had scarcely uttered her'< when he started from his seat, and clasping hisf, paced the room in the utmost agony, whilst theE ng Helen gazed at him with emotions of fear andse. In a few moments the violence of his griefred to soften ; “ Unfortunate Name !” he exclaimed,r thou always, the harbinger of misery to thy pos¬then coming towards her, he took both herin his, and continued, “ but happily that is not thylame, tell it me, and if you would avoid the sightjaaniac, never again let'me hear the other. What,jy own name?” “Helen,” see replied. “LovelyJn,” he returned, “ I once received an obligation|thy father, I have often wished to repay it. Oh !jit the felicity be mine of forming the future happi-of his daughter.”—“ Have you long resided liere ? ’entured to ask. A cloud overcast his intelligentenance, as he answered more than twenty years.”te following morning she was awakened by Bridget,came to summon her to breakfast. Helen felt her-xtremely depressed, and entered the breakfast rooman air so languid, and a face so pale, as must haveicted -the attention of the Captain, who was waitinger had not his owm agitation been so great, as tont his noticing her. The breakfast passed almost inCc ; as soon as it was ended the captain placed him-by her side, and taking her hand, said—“ Lovelyn, know you that your beauty has caused as muchiration, as that of your celebrated namesake ? Lovelyen,” he continued sinking on his knees before her,ay the unhappy man at your feet, hope for the love ofhigh born heiress of Glenross? And Helen atI'th avowed that his situation alone prevented herliming his love, adding, “ Can the daughter of Roder-BStrathmore ally herself to a leader of banditti ? “ Myjher was a victim to the cruelty and injustice of theflish Monarch. The greatest blot in the character |■Idward is, the untimely death of Wallace !” “ Wal- j‘/'repeated Helen, “ Wallace the defender of Scotland, j16the brave William Wallace ?” “ The samp,” here;j“ the Soldiers of the English king were sent tQ seiin his paternal dw elling; he escaped, biit his innwife fell a victim to the unrelenting fury of the met Ifiends, who persecuted him, they plunged their dsjin her heart and departed. My father had been ide]by his clan, no wonder then, seeing in me hisimage, that their attachment was enthusiastic.As I grew to manhood the oft-told story of my fawrongs, and the remembrance of my oath, inspirewith ideas of revenge, I trained my followers and \war on all who had been, enemies of my father, hotand near.Whilst attacking the castle of Ruthven, who hadone of Wallace’s most deadly enemies, I was corujuand wounded by the hand of the laird of Glenross,with true magnanimity giving me my life and libI foreswore my enmity, and returned to this retreatshame of being conquered, made me resolve to dew’arfare in future, and since that time, I have actCthe defensive only : the game of the neighbouring fp:chiefly supply us with food, nor do my men ever mithe traveller, but when necessity compels them to e]a small return of that which lawless power has depdus of.” He ceased, and the tears of Helen was the ieulogium she could bestow on the memory of the hrbut unfortunate Wallace. In the course of the dawas resolved that their union should take place, bethe expiration of the week, in the little chapel offorest, and father Austin undertook to procure fenhabiliments for the bride, who was on that occasionassume, for the first time, the dress of her-sex, amforming plans for the feleeity of the future, the day 1away unheeded.As soon as the shades of twilight wrapt their stef)isecurity, Allan threw a large mantle around the forHelen, and taking he,r hand, led her from the cavtfollowed by father Austin and several of the hand,well armed, but to Helen’s great disappointment, Bridwas not suffered to attend her farther than the entrai17ige. This incident brought her to remembrance, that•r return, she herself would be a prisoner for lifein these rocky caverns; she trembled and almosting leaned on the arm of Allan. The cold eveningte'1 whistled shrilly through the luxuriant foliage,hey proceeded in silence, till Helen fancied she ob-d several figures cross the extremity of an avenue'were emerging from, and concealed themselves in thejrwoed : Allan, informed of her apprehensions, halted,t he sent several of the band to reconn itre the1; they searched narrowly, but no human being was1i descried, and Helen almost convinced that herh ad formed the shadowy figures she fancied she hadId, drew the hood of her mantle closer over her f^ceproceeded in silence.hey soon reached the chapel, and Allan placed hhn-py her on a low beanch, just within the entrance, en-lii'oured to sooth and re-assure her, whilst the bandliled by father Austin, placed lights round the altar.ll|t a few minutes Helen became more composed, anding off her mantle, gave her hand to Allan to leado the altar; at this instant, the door of the chapelclosed with violence, Helen shrieked, and threwelf into the expanded arms of Allan, whilst the banding their swords rushed out tumultuously to ascer-the cause, they instantly returned, and gave asopinions that the wind alone had caused the noise,venerable father had commenced the ceremony, whichalmost immediately interupted by the chapel doorg throwfi violently open, and a commanding voicefly exclaimed, “ Forbear !” Panic struck, the wholee cast their eyes toward the portal, and beheldmartial figure wrapt in a dark mantal, hastilyreached them. When he arrived at the altar, he threwtis cloak, and with horror both Helen and 4-Ilan re-rtized the laird of Glenross: his form appeared dilatedi| i passion. “ Approach,” he cried, and a numerous re-*16 ofarmedmen rushed up the aisle: “seize the traitor,’’3xclaimed, drawing his sword and pointing to the as-||ishec^Allanj_^seizejl)e wretch who would ally the18noble blood of Slraihmore to beggary and infamy/’repeated bis command, but his men, awed by the lollof the band, hesitated to obey ; when raising his giitting falcon he fiercly approached the still immoveqAllan; his action aroused Helen from the torpor willhad seized her, and with a piercing shriek, she dung 1self between them, and fell lifeless at the feet offather. Roderick gazed upon her with emotion,again commanded the seizure of .Allan ; the trusty hg ithen drew their weapons, and placed themselves hef ttheir beloved chief, who would not draw his owiagainst the father of his betrothed bride, in whomwished to behold a friend, rather than an enemy; isacred fane now become the scene of fierce content!butithe servant of religion was respected still, and fatl iSiAustin, partly by persuasion and partly' by force,ceeded in drawing Allan from the spot, and his bareached the cave in safety. As Roderick beheldlovely form of his daughter lying at his feet, the feelirof nature awakened in his bosom, he raised her in his arrand, as he gazed on her transendant loveliness, his kfregrets for a male heir were almost obliterated.f As soon as the cerenionv of Malvina’s funeral nended, Roderick retired to his chamber, he remainthere alone till the foil owing morning, pensively runnating on the sudden and mysterious occurances whihad attended the loss both of his wife and son, wkAndrew, the old warder, begged permission to enter i• announce that a strange black looking man at llieg*| craved vehement I v to see the laird of Glenrftss on buness of life first importance. Roderick instantly refus- jhis request, but upon the warder saying, from soi. questions the fellow had put to him, he believedbrought intelligence of his young lord, he as preciU tately ordered him to be instantly brought.before hijjThe warder then retired, and guiekiy returned wj Donaldblain, (for it was him who had secretly left t| cave,) arid briefly unfolded to Roderick his daughter’s d J{ guise, and that she was upon the following evening j19the wife of Allan, in the chapel of the forest;IV' could lloderick give credence to the tale.-ion at length flashed- on his mind ;—a thousand:tions confirmed it, and, indignant at the intendede flew to the hall, giving orders for the assemblageassals the following morning, and for the carefulof his friendly informer. Tho •fiercest love fori fiad implanted itself in the ferocious soul of Donald-iind temeted him to use this means of tearing herpe arms of his ribeh]n they arrived et Glenross castle, she immediatelyto her apartment ; she had remained alone nearlyurs, when the door of her apartment opened, andnet, an attached and favorite servant of the Ladya's,x*ntered, bearing asmall tray'with refreshments,j l woman placed the breakfast on the table, and thenniched Helen, viewed her very attentively for severalps, then lifting up her eyes, exclaimed in a tone ofIshment, “is it indeed possible, that I live to seethe|jf Glervross changed into a woman ?—ah well a day.wings,saddoings,'nowonder weall heard the Bans he !1 Maud was a good friend of mine, but I pray thevirgin that I may never see her again, for Lamn she cannot rest in her grave after such a wickedour good lady too, who could have thought it,not surprised she could not die.in peace,” “ Die ■’imed Helen, starting from her cOuclt, “ of what ladyou speaken of “ Your mother, my lord,” repliedj Id woman, “ heaven help me, my 'ady, I shim idJ&jsaid, but I am sure I shall never recollect it” “ Die !”fupted Helen, “ did you say iny mother was deadJe, alas the day, and buried too,” replied Janet. A•jjic shriek was the only answer that Helen made toiKimvelcome intelligence, but hastily springing to the| she flew to the apartment of her mother, to asccr-f the truth of old Janet’s report; all here was cold andijy, the rooms was stript of their accustomed furniture,•[tibove the canopy under which the body of Malvinareposed, still waved the sable plumbs ; this confirm-y20ation of the dreadful iMtelligence-stmck like a boltto the heart of Helen, and she fell senseless on theFor several days Helen remained too ill to qurapartment, and was left intirely to the care of old Jbut at the expiration ofa week, Roderick—unannourjentered the room; Helen instantly arose, and threwself weeping on her knees before him ; he gently rflher, and seating her on the couch, placed himself bher: he continued silent, and Helen raising her teeyes to his face, beheld him gazing on her with a si ■This unexpected kindness completely subdued the hoftheinnocent girl, and she threw herselfinto his expararms ; he pressed her to his heart, saying, “ be calmlove, I cometo sooth, not to wound yourlaceratedieeliyou have been an innocent imposter, and ought ncsuffer on that account; for the future we will avosubject so replete with disappointment and mqrtificatiwith regard to your intended marriage with the freebocI doubtless look upon it in the right light—forcenecessity, and congratu ate myself that I arrived in tito save you from tile dreadful degradation.”An hour before Helen thought her misery compl;she now found it might receive addition; but tow!evening, old ,/anet pr essed her to walk up the battlemtito enjoy the fresh air. When they reached the srmit of the battlement, Janet enquired if she had seen -pilgrims, Helen answered in the affirmative. “1not like to begin the subject before,” rep'ied Janet, “they arrived at the castle last night, and they have brouiword that our blessed lady is a saint in heaven.” Helctears flowed at the mention of her mother, and she.sought Janet to explain her meaning. “ Why I can 'you no more lady, when they were both doing piance at the shrine of Saint Sybil, when our dear laMalvina appeared to them, and told them theirshould be forgiven them, if they came to Glenross, swatched nightly at her tomb nine following nights,lord believes it, and has given orders, that thy shall hifree adnission to the chapel nightly. She had scarereached the foot of the grand staircase, whenjjnejd.21ms hastily following her, exclaimed, “ Lady youdropped your rosary,” and placing one in her hand,d; Janet was so occupied in gazing after the pil-i that Helen had time to slip a small folded paper,bed to the rosary, into her bosom unseen. “ Did youlive his face ?” inquired Janet. Helen was so muchted, that she could scarcely answer in the negative,laven bless us, how handsome he is,’’ continued theman.she was left alone, with a trembling hand she ex-d her note, it contained only these few words, “ IfIKave not forgotten a banished man, be a lady Mal-s tomb at ten this night.” As Helen tremblinglyIed the door of her apartment, and ventured forth,eft her lamp burning in her chamber, fearing thatrys might betray her steps. She reached the gal-unobserved, and fastening the door after her, sathr a few moments on a seat to recover heri th, which fright had almost deprived her of. Whenit had reached the aisle, she observed in the distance(lofty white maible tomb of Malvina ; numerous lights| burning around it, and kneeling at its base werejpounterfeit pilgrims. But light as were her motions,if were heard by the watchful ear of love, and startingfii the ground, one of the pilgrims was instantly byside, and throwing off his disguise,, she beheld Allanson of W'allace.die following day Malcolm of Ruthven and his sonJvin arrived at Glenross, and Helen received herer’s commands to apdear at the banquet, which passedost in sflence, excepting Edwin’s entreating a privatedence, which, as he had Roderick's sanction for so¬wing Helen, dared not refuse. Edwin availed him-ij' of the opportunity, and pleaded his passion with fer-r; but retired more offended at her coolness, t ban en-inted by her beauties ; and half resolved by quiltingcastle to avoid an union with a woman, who, how-r lovely, had not a heart to bestow on him. Helen‘Cted indisposition, and obtained her father’s permis-a to retire. Before her window was a small balcony00,filled with aromatic plants, and while she was gazthe last rays of the departing sun, she was siby the fall of an arrow amidst the flowers; but»o at beholding a folded paper affixed to itswith a hasty hand she took the billet, when she Ione of the pilgrims descending from the battlementurret that commanded her apartment, and wasloss to divine from whom the letter came, but wbig at its import she tremblingly unfolded it; the ywas same she had seen before ; and it containe«these lines. “ A circumstance has occurred that r«it necessary for us to meet at an hour later thatime appointed ; when the clock strikes eleven, fato meet the future guardian of your life.”Roderick in the meanwhile felt his spirits unudepressed, and dismissed his attendants, seated lion a couch, and remained buried in painful rumiiltill the chapel clock tolled eleven. Starting at fhe|ness of the hour, he was about to retire to resta loiid paal of thunder, followed by u scream, arilhis step, & instantly the liag entered his apartment,looks were wild, and her garments floated loosely <ground. Roderick remembered her prophecy,rhou-next beboldest me the even? of my prediction!be at hand ; and he stood motionless as a statue,in a deep hollow voice she repeated,“ Woe to the race of Strathmore !“ Woe to the Golden Falcon !“ Woe to the turrets of Glenross ! ’Then extending her wand, she exclaimed, “ hollow iRoderick drawing his sword* snatched up die lampobeyed her command. With a rapid step she legway.to the chapel; but at the portal uttered aand hideous scream, she sunk into the earth and van*Roderick's feelings were wound up to a degree ofpzy ; he dashed the lamp from him, and proceeded,tapers around Malvina’s tomb, gave sufficient light tpath, and a distant hollow voice directed him to the ilie approached and beheld a scene, which for a motparalyzed his frame, liefore the sacred spot knel23ly form of Helen, and a man in a pilgrim's habit,at a reverend friar was reading the marriage cere-ly. Frantic with rage, Roderick rushed up the stepsie altar, and before his presence was perceived, plung-nis sword deep into the heart of the pilgrim ; who,! a dreadful groan, instantly expired : tlie act wasmtaneous, and Helen, uttering a loud shriek, fellicless on the marble pavement. At the moment offall, a bugle was heard to resound throughout thei ted fabric, and a party of armed men rushed up the■, and to the amazement of father Austin, he beheldted as the laird of his clan, Allan. Tht^ reverendier cast his eyes upon the breathless body before him ;he agonies of death his disguise had fallen off, andH beheld Donaidblain disguised as Allan, who hadhied the hour of their appointed marriage, and deter-led to substitute himself in the room of Allan :—the! tation of all parties prevented a discovery of the im¬pure, and Helen had just received the ring that madejr the wife of Donaidblain, when her father’s swordi nished his arrogance.; Allan was without the chapel, waiting for the strikingi I the appointed hour, when he beheld Roderick enterif portal: not doubting hut his plan ivas discovered andite seizure of Helen meditated, instantly blew his bugleiluch summoned his trusty clansmen- to his yescue.IThe band enraged at beholding one of .their number|:jng dead upon the ground, and the laird of Glynrossith the sanguinary instrument in his hand, attacked■ n with the greatest fury, and he was wounded beforeIan could throw himself between them.‘The sound of the bugle had alarmed the inhabitants ofje castle, who with Edwin, Malcolm and their retainers.I shed to the scene of action, where they beheld Allan,ounded by one of Roderick’s partisans,) tall before the■ar; Allan's clansmen, irritated and enraged, withwning brand; set fire to the castle, and ere the morn-■I dawned, a heap of ruins was nearly all dint remaineddie once princely Irnll of Gleuross.Edwin having learned from one of Allan’s vassal*)'had conquered, the real cause of the tumult, hurriejthe chapel where he had last seen Roderick. This Iof the edifice had suffered much less than any other {and beside the altar he found Roderick extended t*and bleeding; Helen was kneeling beside him, vie*)with looks of destraction and horror the breathless Wof Allan, which lay apparently dead at her feet. Eftihad them separately borne to those apartments that||stdfereil least, and every care bestowed on them. Awas only faint from loss of blood, time and strict atteaUrestored both him and Roderick to perfect health) <jjrenewed the faded bloom of Helen.The laud of Glenross learning from Allan the histof himself and family, with his prior engagementsHelen, generously presented his daughter to Allan,.:his bride, who relinquished his vow of seclusion frsociety, and the clan of Wallace was incorporated v,that of Strathmore.The stately towers of Glenross shortly rose again mmagnificent from their ruins, and Helen presentedii!enraptured Roderick with a grandson, which was cal"Roderick Wallace Strathmore, to perpetuate the na'of both the families, on the anniversary of the day tiimade her the wife of ALLAN THE FREEBOOTE