VISITSFROM THEWorld of Spirits,SEIKOA COLLECTION OF FACTSRELATING TO THEAppearances of Ghosts, Spectres,and Apparitions:To which is prefixed, theBoat Cure for Imaginary Terrors.aw: h |B1 ’■ ■■ i tf ■ ■ ■ . ■ ■ •. • ." • '' ’or HOSTS AND APPARITIONS.The discovery of a Murder by an Apparition.There is a remarkable story, which I believe t >>e true, of a certain man, who was brought to the.>ar of justice on suspicion of murder, which, how ■sver, he knew it was not in the power of huma-knowledge to detect. When he came to hold uj!tis hand at the bar, he pleaded, not guilty ; andthoiourt began to be at a loss for proof, nothing bir>uspicion and circumstantial evidence appearing,lowever, such witnesses as they had, they examin¬’d as usual; the witnesses standing up, as is usual,ipon a little step, to be visible to the court.When the Court thought they had no more witlesses to examine, and the man in a few moment •vould have been acquitted, he gave a shriek at th.:jar, as if he was frightened; but recovering hi;xmrage a little, he stretched out his arm towarche place where the witnesses usually stand to giv :evidence upon trials, and pointing with his hand.1 My lord,’ said he aloud, ‘ that is not fair: ’t’jot according to law ; he’s not a legal witness.The Court were surprised, and Could not undergaud what the man meant; but the Judge, a mavif njer* penetration, took the hint, and checkin''"'4some of the Court that offered to speak, and vvhicJ|would have perhaps brought the man hack again tilhimself—“Hold’’ says the judge, the man seessees something more than we do , I begin to under-lstand him and then speaking to the prisoner s“ why” says he “is he not a legal witness ? I be¬lieve the Court will allow his evidence to be goodjwhen he comes to speak.’' “No, my lord, it can¬not be just: it can’t be allowed,” says the prisonei( with a confused eagerness in his countenance, thaSshewed he had a bold heart, but a guilty consci¬ence) “ Why not, friend ? what reason do you givefor it?’ says the Judge. ‘My lord’ said he,‘no man can be a witness in his own case; he is aparty, my lord: therefore, he can't be a witness."But you mistake,’ says the Judge, ‘ for you are in¬dicted at the suit of the King, and the man mayb e a witness for the King; as in case of a robberyon the highway, we allow the person robbed is agood witness: and without this the highwaymancould not be convicted : but we shall hear what hesays, when he is examined.” This the Judge spokewith much gravity, and in so easy and natural atone, that the criminal at the bar answered, ‘ Nay,if you will allow him to be a good witness, then Iam a dead man.’ The last words he said with a,lower voice than the rest, but withal called for achair, which, if he had not had, it was thought hewould have sunk down r.t the bar; as he sat down,5he was in great consternation, and lifted up his handsseveral times, repeating the words, “ A dead man !A dead man !” several times over.The Judge, however, was at some loss how toact and the whole court appeared to he in a strangeconsternation, though no body saw any thing butthe man at the bar: at length the Judge said tohim. ‘ Look you, Mr calling him by hisname, ‘ you have but one way left, that I know of,and I’ll read it to you out of the Scriptureandso calling for a bible, he turned to the book ofJoshua, and read the text. Josh. vii. 19. ‘ AndJoshua said unto Achan, My son, give, I pray thee,glory to the Lord God of Isreal, and make confess*ion unto him; and tell now what thou hast done,hide it not from me.Here the judge exhorted him to confess hiscrime; for he saw, no doubt, an evidence ready toconvict him, and to discover the whole matteragainst him ; and if he did not confess, heavenwould, no doubt, send witnesses to detect him.Upon this, the self-condemned muderer burst outinto tears and sad lemantations. for his own miser¬able condition and made a full confession of hiscrime; and when he had done gave the followingaccount of his case, as to the reasons of his beingunder such a surprise, viz. That he saw the mur¬dered person standing upon the step as a witness,ready to be examined against him, and ready to6shew his throat, which was cut by the prisoner: andwho, as he said, stood staring full upon him with afrightful countenance ; and this confounded him (aswell it might) ; and yet there was no real apparition,no spectre, no ghost, or appearance; it was figuredout to him by the power of his own guilt and theagitation of his soul, fired and surprised by the in¬fluence of his conscience.Apparition of a Corpse to Mrs. Stephens, of BoothStreet, Spitalfields.Some years since, their lived in Spitalfields, oneMrs. Anne Stephens, a person at that time wellknown and respected, for her great dealings withthe mercers on Ludgate-hill This person sittingone evening in her house alone, and musing uponbusiness, happened by accident to look behind her,when to her great surprise, she saw, as it were, adead corpse, as she thought, lying extended uponthe floor, just as a dead body should he, exceptingthat the foot of one leg was fixed on the ground, asit is in bed, when one lies with one knee up; shelooked at it a while, and by degrees withdrew hereyes from so unpleasing an object: however, astrange kind ot curiosity soon overcame her fears,and she ventured a second time to look that way(and saw it for a considerable time longer fixed asbefore, but yet she durst not stir from her seat.She again turned from the horrible and melancholyspectacle, -and resuming courage, alter a little re¬flection, got up with a design to ascertain herself c-the reality of the vision, by going nearer to it; bulo ! it was vanished !This extraordinary sight proved a very good ad¬monition to her: for, taking it for a warning of heapproaching dissolution, she, from that hour beganto settle her worldly affairs, and had just time tosee them in a regular posture, when she was takenill of a plenrisy which carried her off in seven days ,A Remarkable Apparition which appeared toMr. T. Lilly.O.v the lirst Sabbath day, in the year 1749, MiThomas Lilly, the son of a farmer in the parish ofKelso, in Roxburghshire, a young man intendedfor the church of Scotland, and who then had mad'-no small progress in literature, remained at hom •to keep the house, in company with a shepherd hovall the rest of the family, excepting a maid-servan! ,being at church. Ihe young student and the boybeing sitting by the fire, whilst the girl was gointo the well for some water, a venerable old gentle¬man, clad in an antique garb, presented himselt,and alter some little ceremony, desired the student' 8to take up the family-bible, which lay on a table,and turn over to a certain chapter and verse in thrsecond book of Kings. The student did so, andread—* There is death in the pot.’On this the old man, with much apparent agi¬tation, pointed to the great family pot boiling onthe fire, declaring that the maid had cast a greatquantity of arsenic into it, with intent to poison thewhole family, to the end she might rob the houseof the hundred guineas which she knew her masterhad lately taken for sheep and grain which he hadsold. Just as he was so saying, the maid came tothe door, announcing her approach by the noise ofthe nails in her shoe heels.—The old gentlemansoid to the student, * Remember my warning, andsave the lives of the family !’—and that instant dis¬appeared.The maid entered with a smilling countenance,emptied her pail, and returned to the well for afresh supply. Meanwhile, young Lilly put someoatmeal into a wooden dish, skimmed the pot of thefat, and mixed it for what is called brose or croudy,and when the maid returned, he, with the hoy, ap¬peared busily employed in eating the mixture* Come Peggy,’ said the student, ‘ here is enoughleft for you; are not you fond of croudy?’ Shesmiled, took up the dish, and reaching a hornspoon, withdrew to the back room. The shep¬herd’s dog followed her, unseen by the boy, and the9wor animal, on the croudy being put down by thenaid, fell a victim to his voracious appetite; for^efore the return of the family from church, it was•normously swelled, and expired in great agony.The student enjoined the boy to remain quiteiassive for the present, meanwhile he attempted tohow his mgenuity in resolving the cause of thecanine catastrophe into insanity, in order to keepthe girl in countenance, till a fit opportunity of dis¬covering the plot should present itself.Soon after his father, mother brothers, and sis¬ters, with the other servants returned from church,all hungering after the word, and eager to sit downround the rustic hoard.The table was instantly replenished with wood¬en howls and trenchers, while a heap of barley ban¬nocks graced the top. The kail or broth, infusedwith leeks or winter cabbages, was poured forth inplenty ; Peggy with a prodigal hand, filled all thedishes with the homely dainties of Tiviotdale.; Themaster began grace, and all hats and bonnets wereinstantlv off; ‘ O Lord,’ prayed the farmer, ‘ wehave been hearing thy word from the mouth of thyaged servant, Mr Ramsay; we have been alarmedby the awful famine in Samaria, and of death be¬ing in the pot.’ Here the young scholar interrup¬ted his father, by exclaiming—‘ Yes, sir, there isdeath in the pot now here, as well as there was10r:ice iii Israel!—Touch not! taste not! see tha<' dead by the poisoned pot!‘ What!’ cried the farmer, ‘ have you been rais-'g the devil by your conjuration ? Is this the effectid your study, sir?’—‘ No, father,’said the student," * I pretend to no such arts of magic or necroman-• 7, but this day, as the boy can testify, I had a■. ilemn warning from one whom I take to be no de-1•■ion, but a good angei. To him we all owe our. ives. As to Peggy, according to his intimation,t he has put poison into the pot for the purpose ofdestroying the whole family root and branch !’—Here the girl fell into a fit, from which being withsome difficulty recovered, she confessed the whole oftier deadly design, and was suffered to withdrawirom the family and her native country.B/ach and White Devil .The following interesting particulars of a singu¬lar apparition is related by Mr Lackington, in hislift,—In the workhouse belonging to the parish of’t James’, at Taunton, in Somersetshire, there livedyoung woman who was naturally an ideot! thisloor creature had somehow a great aversion toleeping in a bed, and at the usual hour of rest,vonld often slip away to a field in the neighbour-nood.In order to break her of this bad custom, twomen agreed to endeavour, if they could, to frightenher out of it. Accordingly, one night, when theyknew that she was there, they took a white sheetwith them, and coming to the place, one of the menconcealed himself to see the event, while the otherwrapped himself up in a sheet, and walked hack-wards and forwards close before the cow-shed inwhich she was laid. It was sometime before Mollypaid any attention to the apparition, but at lastshe got up, and looking out, exclaimed, ‘ Ah ! ah !a white devil! and by her manner of expressinghimself, she thought it was very strange to see awhite devil. And soon after, she exclaimed againin surprise, ‘ A Mack devil too l’—With that, theman in the sheet, on looking over his shoulder, sawfairly the image of a person all over Mack behindhim ; the sight of which made him take to his heels.Molly then clapped her hands as fast as she could,crying out at the same time, ‘ Run, run. Mackdevil, and catch white devil!’ and was highly diver¬ted. But this proved a serious adventure to thewhite devil, as he expired within a few minutesafter he had reached his own, house, and from thattime poor Molly was left to sleep unmolested inpeace.12Ominous Presages attending the latter end of the•unfortunate Mr. Blandg.Several awful presages alarmed the family of theunfortunate Mr Blandy, of Henley, in Oxfordshire, iprevious to his calamity. A few days before thedeath of his wife, a grand chorus of music was heardby the daughter and several of the servants at mid¬night, as if proceeding from the garden behind theapartment where Mrs. Blandy lay ; this was suc¬ceeded by three distinct knocks on the window otMiss Blandy’s chamber adjoining to that ol hermother. Meanwhile the old lady, though insensi¬ble to those sounds, was most horribly affrighted bya dream, in which she saw' her husband drinking acup administered by her daughter; presently heswelled to a monster, and instantly expired. W henshe awoke in the morning, she told the dream tothe woman who waited upon her, and died thesame day.—This happened about two years beforethe memorable murder ot Mr Blandy, of the ap¬proach ot which be himself had several ominouspresages.The story of that dreadful parricide is briefly asfollows—-Mr Blandy was an eminent attorney, and by hispractice had accumulated several thousand pounds;he had an only child, a daughter. Miss Mary, whomj f/\ a kind of pious fraud, lie gave our to oe worth| thirty thousand pounds; Captain William Cranston,hi other ot’ Lord Cranston, of Scotland, a little be¬fore the death of Mr Blandy’s spouse, was upon arecruiting party in Oxfordshire, and hearing of thefame of the lady’s fortune, found means to introducehimself to the family. He soon gained an ascen¬dancy over the mother ; and the daughter soon dis¬covered a very sensible feeling for the soldier. Butthere was au almost insuperable obstacle in the wayof their mutual happiness: The Captain had beenprivately married in Scotland. This however hehoped to get over by a decree in tbe Supreme Courtof Session. That expectation proved but ill found¬ed ; Mr Blandy by no means could assent to theunion of his child with a man, however honourableby birth, who was capable of acting contrary to reI ligion and humanity.The mother departed this life suddenly.—The1 father remained inexorable, and, like the great;i gulph, could not be passed over. This set the Cap¬tain’s sanguine soul to work.—The affection of MissBlandy for a profligate, almost double her age, wasviolent. He imposed upon her credulity; sent herfrom Scotland a pretended love powder, which heenjoined her to administer to her father, in order togain his affection, and procure his consent. Thisinjunction she declined, on account of a, frightfuldream, in which she fancied her f?ther falling froma precipice into the ocean. The Captain wrote asecond time ; told her his design in words rather en¬igmatical, but easily understood. This had an a-mazing effect on the mind of Miss B. and so fullwas her mind with the project of removing her father,that she was heard to exclaim before several of theservants, * Who would not send an oldfellow to hellfor thirty thousand pounds ?’The die was cast;—the powder was mixed in thetea ; the father drank, and soon ofter swelled en-ormonsly.—* What have you given me, Mary !cried the unhappy dying man ; * you have murder¬ed me ! of this 1 was warned— hut, alas ! I thoughtit was a false alarm !—O fly ; take care of the Cap¬tain .'’---So he died a most melancholy spectacle.Mi ss Blandy was taken, as she was attemptingto run away, conducted to Oxford Castle, lay theretill the assizes, was found guilty and executed.Captain Cranston went abroad, and died in a mis¬erable state of mind.Spectres that haunted the house of a Gentleman inSilesia through his rash wishes.In 1609 a gentleman residing in Siiesia havinginvited several of his friends to dine with him, thehour of the sumptuous entertainment arrived guests,he entered his apartment in thegreatests rage, and1.*)bGs'an exclaiming---* Since nobody will deign tovisit me, may the devils participate rny fete.’—-Saying which, he left his house, and went to church,where the curate was preaching. He listened along time with the greatest attention. Whilst hewas there, several men on horseback, exceeding tall,and quite black, went into the gentleman’s court¬yard, met one of the servants, and commanded himto go and tell his master that his guests were come.The valet, greatly terrified, ran to the church to in¬form his master; who very much astonished, relat¬ed it to the curate.The latter finished his sermon, advised him toorder all his family out of the house. This was nosooner said than executed; but in consequence of.he haste that they made in escaping from that aw¬ful abode, they left in one of the rooms a littlechild sleeping in a cradle. The guests, or to speakmore properly, the devils, began to overturn thetables, to howl, to look out of the windows in theshape of hears, wolves, cats, and hobgoblins, hold¬ing in their hands glasses of wine, fish, and boiledand roasted joints of meat. As the neighbours,the gentleman, the curate, and others, were con¬templating the like spectacle with horror, the poorfather began to exclaim, £* Alas ! where is my poorinfant ?” The last words were scarcely from his lips,when one of the black guests brought (lie child inhis arms to the windows, and showed him to all16those who were in the street. The gentleman, quitedistracted, addressed himself to his trusty servant—* My friend, what shall I do—‘ Sir,’ repliedthe young man trembling. ‘ I will recommend mylife to God, and then in his name 1 will enter thehouse, and in consideration of his favour and assist¬ance, I will bring you away the child.’ * Well, saidthe master, God accompany, assist, and fortifyyou.’ The servant having received the benedictionof his master, the curate, and other gentleman whowere present, went home, and approaching the roomwhere the dark guests were sitting, he prostratedand recommended himself to the Almighty ; thenopened the door, and beheld the spectres in a hor¬rible form, some seated, others standing, others craw¬ling upon the floor. They all of them darted to¬wards him, and exclaimed together in a hollowvoice—-* What brings you here ? The servant trem¬bling with fear, at the same time emboldened byhis trust in the Omnipotent, addressed himself tothe mischievous one who was holding the infantand said, * Here ! deliver me that child.’ ‘ I willnot,’ replied the spectre, * it is mine; go and tellthy master to come for it himself.’—The servant in¬sisted, and said—* I am doing the office that Godhath commanded me, and know all that I do con¬formable to that is acceptable to him. Being herein virtue of my office, in the name and assistanceof his blessed Son, 1 snatch from thee and seizeITthis child, which 1 shall carry to his father.’—Say¬ing this he caught hold of the infant, and clasped itclosely in his arms. The black guests replied withthe most dismal shrieks in the words—‘ Thouwretch, thou profligate, leave the child or thou shaltperish.’—But despising their threats, precipitatedout of the house unhurt, and restored the child in¬to the hands of his father. Some days after thisthe unwelcome visitors disappeared ; when the gen¬tleman returned home, and ever after lived as a trueChristian.It is really amazing how any body can deny them¬selves the pleasure of believing such strange factsas these ; and especially the following.A young Girl clasped round the neck Inj a Skeleton,On a fine summers evening, as several peasantswere enjoying themselves after the labours of theday, and sitting upon the grass, reciting dreadfulstories of ghosts and apparitions: one of them, whopretended to be wiser than the rest of his compan¬ions, affected to laugh at the different stories haheard, and aftirmed that those absurdities were on¬ly fit to amuse old women and children. ‘ Sinceyou pretend to be so very courageous, said one ofthem, prove it to us, by going this night into theburying ground, and bring with you the skeleton18under the church porch, if you do it, continuedhe, we will allow that you are the most spiritedman in the whole village; you shall have a realfrom each of us, as a recompence for your bravery,and from that moment we shall no longer believein ghosts or apparitions.' The incredulous peasanthesitated for some time; and owned at last, thatalthough he was not afraid to perform the task, yethe did not like to be rash. A young girl, who stoodat a cottage door, and had heard their conversation,offered herself immediately to perform that fearfultask, if they would give her the proposed reward.The peasants were all astonished at the proposal,and instantly agreed to it. Maria accordingly wentto the church-yard, and soon after returned loadedwith the horrible skeleton, which she laid on thetable on which they had been drinking, to the nosmall terror of the whole company, who stared ateach other with terror and surprise at the uncom¬mon instance of spirit in so young a girl. Thepeasant who had pretended to disbelieve the differ¬ent tales of apparitions, and treated them with der¬ision, was more frightened than his companions, andin a trembling voice, offered to give her a ducat ifshe would instantly carry the frightful skeleton backagain to the place from which she had taken it.The courageous Maria took it up, and proceededwith it towards the church-yard. When she reach¬ed the church door, die endeavoured to lay it down,19but found it impossible; its bony arms were strong¬ly clasped round the trembling girl’s neck! She a-gain endeavoured to shake off her dreadful load, butin vain! she was on the point of fainting with ex->cess of horror, when the appalling skeleton, with asepulchral voice said, ‘ I will not loose thee.’ ‘ Oh,Father of mercy, assist me !’ exclaimed the affright¬ed girl. The skeleton answered with a still moreappalling voice, ‘ I will never release thee from myarms, until thou promise to do what I shall com¬mand thee.’ ‘ Tell me whatit is, cried the terrifiedMaria, and I will perform it, be what it may.’* Thou must go, said the skeleton, in a deep andhollow voice, into the church ; thou wilt find a doorin the right hand aisle, which leads to a vault; en¬ter it, and proceed along the subterraneous passage,until thou lind a lady wrapped in a black shroud;ask her to forgive my sins. Wilt thou do this,’continued the skeleton in a loud and appalling voice,whilst his bones rattled with a horrible noise, andhis bony arms pressed her neck still closer. * Iwill’ faintly said the trembling girl. The skeletoninstantly released her from his terrible grasp. Sheendeavoured to fly from the church-yard, but, wasfollowed by her dreadful companion, whose bonyfeet, rattled over the tomb-stones, frightened poor.Maria to such a degree, that, unable to proceed,.-he sank on a new made grave, deprived of motion.Her dreadful pursuer soon reached the inanimategirl, and clasped her again, with such violence, thatshe recovered, and was dreadfully alarmed at her !jhorrible situation. When she gathered strengthsufficient to walk, she promised once more to go tothe vault, and perform what he required of her.Maria entered the church, and approached the en¬trance of the vault with a palpitating heart. Itwas dark and gloomy; her steps died away in longechoes, through the gloomy aisles. She proceededslowly and with a fearful step, along the dark vaults;she perceived the faint glimmering of a light at aconsiderable distance, and directing her steps to¬wards it, beheld a female, seated on a tomb stone,reading by the faint light of a lamp, which burntbeside her ; her long flaxen hair hung loose and dis¬hevelled over black garments, which were disorder¬ed, and discovered a deep wound in her fair bosom,from whence issued a stream of blood. Mariathrew herself on her knees before the lady ; ‘ Oh !forgive the skeleton that lays under the churchporch, murmured the trembling girl, he sends meto obtain thy forgiveness.—The lady slowly turnedher face towards Maria, and looking mournfully athex’, shook her head three times, and made her asign to leave her. Maria gladly hastened to quitthe vault, and having reaching the chui'ch porch,was running swiftly out of the dismal abode, whenthe skeleton barred her passage, and said—She hasnot forgiven me, I know she has not. Return toher once more ! Supplicate for me, and for thy ownlife ! for if thou return without having obtained herforgiveness, thou shall forfeit thy life. I will in¬dict unheard of torments ; I will twine my bonyfingers in thy hair, and dash out thy brains againstthis wall, and after-ages shall relate thy death withhorror.” More dead than alive, Maria once moreretraced her steps back to the dreadful vault, andagain knelt, and earnestly supplicated the figure inblack to forgive the dread skeleton ; but the ladyagain shook her head three times, in the negative.Almost frantic, the wretched girl exclaimed, in anagonized voice, ‘ Oh, do not wjthold your forgive¬ness ' For mercy’s sake do not doom me to the mostdreadful death ! If I do not obtain your pardon-the horrible skeleton will destroy me.’ The ladybreathed a deep sigh, and after shaking her headthree times continued to read on.—Oh thou cruelone, cried Maria, in an agony of despair.—If myfate be so indifferent to thee, pity at least the inno¬cent being which I bear. Alas! I expect every dayto become a mother; if thou have ever in thy life¬time experienced the feelings of a mother, oh, for¬give the skeleton ! pardon him for my sake, andfor that of the little innocent, who through me im¬plores thee to save the life of its wretched mother.’The figure instantly arose, with a face animatedwith pleasure, closed the hook, and extinguished thelamp; it then cast a look of benign thankfulnesstowards Maria, and disappeared.Overcome with joy, the poor girl was snddentlytransported under the church porch, where the firstthing that struck her sight, was the skeleton, moul¬dering away into a heap of dust.Hour of Death foretold by an Apparition.A youth of sixteen, of a weakly constitution anddelicate nerves, but in other respects quite healthy,quitted his room in the dusk of the evening, butsuddently returned with a face pale as death andlooks betraying the greatest terror, and in a tre¬mulous voice told a fellow student who lived in thesame room with him, that he should die at nineo’clock in the morning of the day after the next.All enquiries as to the cause of his belief, hadhitherto proved abortive. He now disclosed to oneol his friends, but in the the strictest confidence,that the preceeding evening, on quitting his room,he had seen a figure in white, which beckoned tohim, and at the same moment a voice pronouncedthe words—‘ The day after to morrow, at nine itthe morning, thou shaltdie !’ and the fate thus pre¬dicted nothing oOuld enable him to escape. Henb# proceeded to set his house in order, made hiswill and gave particular direction for his funeral.OZ')specifying who were to carry, and who were to ioi-low him to the grave,— He had insisted on receiv¬ing the sacrament -a wish, however, which thoseabout him evaded complying with.—^Night cameon, and he began to count the hours he had yet tolive, till the fatal nine the next morning ! and everytime the clock struck, his anxiety encreased. Atthe moment the fatal hour at length arrived, andas soon as he heard the first sound of the clock, hiseyes fixed, and before it ceased to strike, he was acorpse.A Spectre Loaded with Chains appears to aYoung Gentleman.About the year 1570, a young man named Vas¬ques d’Ayola, having gone to Boulogne with twoof his companions to study the law, and not havingfound a lodging in the city to his wishes, they tookan apartment in a spacious and magnificent house,but deserted on account of a spectre which fright¬ened every body that came to reside there. Theylaughed at this discourse, and took up their abode.At the end of the first month d’Ayola watchingalone in his chamber while his companions weresleeping quietly in their beds, he heard a noise ata distance similar to chains dragging along theground It appeared advahcing toward him up the24stairs. He recommended himself to God, made thesign of the cross, took a sword and buckler, andhaving a taper in the other hand, he saw the dooropened by a horrible spectre, nothing but bones,but loaded with chains. Ayola conjured him andasked him what he wanted. The phantom madesigns for him to follow him; he accordingly did;but on going down stairs his candle going out, hewent back to light it and followed the spirit whichconducted him along a yard where there was a well.Ayola was fearful least he should precipitate himinto it, and stopped ; the spectre made signs for himto follow him ; they went into the garden, when thefantom disappeared. Ayola plucked up a fewhandfuls of grass about the spot and return to re¬late to his companions what had happened to him.In the morning information was given of it to theprincipal citizens of Boulogne.They went to reconnoitre the place and made themost diligent search. The bones of a corse wasfound there and loaded with chains, Every enquirywas made but they were never able to discover anything certain as to the fact. Suitable obsequieswas made for the deceased, the remains were in¬terred, and from that time the house was no longerhaunted.F1K!S