3:)own the Burn Davie.I Vie Meeting of the Waters.Andra wi’ his cutty irun.THE SOLDIER’S DREAM.For hike of Gold.EDINBURGH:HUNTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,I8?J.fDOWN THE B UTS, >5 I) A VI ifjWhentreesdid budand fields were green,And broom bloom'd bur to see;When Mary was-complete fifteen,And love laugh'd in heree:Blythe Davy's blinks her neart did moveTo speak her mind thus free,Gang-down the burn, DaA'id, love,And I will follow thee.Now Davie did each lad surpassThat dwelt on this burn side;And Mary was the bonniest lass.Just meet to be a tnicle.Blythe Davie's blinks, &c.Her cheeks were rosy red and white,Her een were bonny blue,Her looks were like Aurora bright.Her lips like dropping dew.Blythe Davie's.biinks, &c.Wbat.pass'd, I gue.s, was harmless piay^And nothing, sure, unmeet 13ii Far «;aivgiog.bame, I heard them say,*They lik'd a walk so sweet.Blythe Davie's blinh's, kc.'! H is cheeks to her‘s he fondly laidj... Sweet love be true;. And when a wide, as now a maid,To death Idl fdlhwyyoti.Blythe Davie's blinks, &e.' • ’» yuji ■■ ‘ a. As fate had dealt to him a routh,Straight tp the kirk lie led her;Thereip.1 ighted. her has faith and truth,And a bonny bridmke made her.Nonttore asbamdl to own her love,Or speak hsr mind tlms fhee;3 Gangdriiwirtlie burn, Davie, love,And 1 will follow thee.THE MEETING OF THE WATERS.*t There is not, in this wide world, a val¬ley so sweeti As that vale in whose bosom the brightwaters meet;I Alai the last rays of feeling and life mustdepart,Ere the bloom of that valley shall fat|from my heart.Yet it was not that nature hard shed o’t,the scene ; i .Her purest of ■crystal and brightest cgreen,It was not the soft magic of streamlet;!or rill, , ' -Ah! no, it was something more exquisite still.«Twas that friends the beloved of my 9c.som were near,Who made every scene of enchantmentmore dear.And who felt how the best charmsnature improve, 'v r ■: b..When we see them reflected from looksthat we love.Sweet vale of Ovoca, hSw calm could Irest , jIn thy bosom of shade, with the friendsI love best;WSien the storms which we feel ;n thiscold world would cease,5And our. hearts, like thy waters, be min¬gled in peace.AN DUO Wl’ HIS CUTTY GUN.Biyth, blythe ai?d merry was she,Blythe was she but, and ben;O' weel sh.e lo‘ed a Hawick gill,Ahdleugh to sec a tappit hen.She took me in,'arid Set me down,And hedit to keep me lawin free;But cunning carlin that she was,She gar'd me birl my bawbee.Biyth, blyth, he.We lo‘ed the liquor weel enough,But waes my'neart my cash was done,Before that I had quench'd my drouth,And laith 1 was to pawn my shoon.i When we had tb'ee times toora'd ourstoop?*And the n'eisf chap^n new begun,In started, jto i.'eeae'mp our hope,Young y d his cutty gun.h, biyti), he.The eaflia brought lierkebbifyi: ben,'Yv'ith girdle cakes •weel Ida's ted brownV/eel does the canny kiminor kenTiiey gar tiie scuds, gae glibber downWe ca.-‘d the bicker;aft about,-Till dawidug we ne'er jeed our bum,And ay the clearest diin'-ker out,Was An'dro wi‘ IdS'cutty gutnElytll, biyth, &c.He did like ony inawis sing,And as 1 in ids oxter sat,,_ _ v< a e J • •lie ca'ii^ne ay hisibonny thing,And tnony a sappy ki^s I ga.t. •I hae been east, i hae been west,ihae been fi'd ct/ont the sun;But thfcgbJythe>t lad that e‘er i saw,. WaVAhdro v i" his cutty gun.'Blytli*biyth, Ac. , , d' THE'SOLDIEU’S DliKAXl. ■ ;Oar bugles, sung' truce, i’or the night-cloml-liad lower'd,And tHe seiuinel-sta^ set their wtrtth in life nAnd thousands ha;! sunk on the ghoiifM over-ipower’d, , ...The weary to sleep, and the wounded to die.7 ..When reposing.tbat nigiit on my pal let of strawBy the, wolt-scaring 'faggot that guarded theAt the v.a rd of’the ribyit a sweet vision I saw,An-Viv. ice, eve die cock crew, 1 dreamt itayabv, ‘ 1 ■ ' .livletiiought, from th,e.l>atde-dekrg dreadful ar-. ray. jhfjc sjj j;|1 Far far 1 hadd;aamV| tract,[Till nature and Suiisnuie'’ tShcfos’d die sweetway, '/.'Oil" - • (bacli.' To the house of my father,, who welcom’d me1 flew to the pleafetint lielii, travers’d so oftIn life’s mornibd watch, 'when my,bosomwas young:if heard my own njountaiu-goats bleating aloft.Anti knew tho.ow<»<st, that the • comrrei.qiers sung. rfrM. • ;ITU.jn pledg’d we the wine-cup,—and lomlly Iswore, (verV.o part;From my home and my weeping friends ne-y little ones kiss’d me a thousand dmes o’er,And my wife sobb’d aloud in th^ullness ofheart— ’ (worn !’I Stay, stay with us, re-.t—-lliou art weary.and| And fain was the war-bi oken soldier to stayTllBut sorrow return’d with the dawning of morn,I And the voice in my dreaming ear meltedaway,FOR LAKE OF GOLD.For lake of gold she‘s left me, O,And of all that's dear bereft me, O,She me forsook, for a great duke,And to endless woe she's left me, O.A star and garter has more art,Than youth, a true and faithfu' heart,For empty titles we must part,And for glitt'ring show she-s left me O' -v-' r • " . 1No ciuel fair shall ever moveMy injur'd heart again to love;Through distant cdmates I must rove,Since Jeanie she has left me O.Ye pow'rs above, I to j-OW careGive up my charming lovely fair;Your choicest blessings be her share,Tho' she's for ever left me O.