THE• ADVANTAGESANDDISADVANTAGES. . OP THE'Marriage-State,AS ENTERED INTOWITH RELIGIOUS OR IRRELIGIOUSPERSONS.Delivered under the SimilitudeOFA DREAM.Improved and amended.BY PHILANTHROPIST.KILMARNOCK;Primed for ike BookisllersADVANTAGES and DISADVANTAGESOF THEMARRIED STATE.j^LS I walked through the wilderness othis world, I laid me down to sleep ; ancfanded myself travelling to the City of okBa nylon, where I was much amazed iiiviewing the curiosities of the place ; as th«Tower, the Wall, the Gates, the Streetsthe Palace, the River, the Images in thjplain of Dura, Sec. I observed the Cityand it appeared in different views. In on-part, the people were entirely taken up iir.evellings, feastings, diversions, splendkappearances and enjoying themselves. Irthe other, they were more reserveo, andwere much taken up in a demure dress andbehaviour, in the decency of their house;and streets, in the regularity of their tow¬ers and fortifications, &c, but without anyappearance of danger, they seemed entirelyat ease. Howbeit, when I had satiated my>self with gazing at the particular shows, ’thought to take a prospect of the whole citytogether So I walked to a rising grounda little retired from the crowd, where I sawa booth, which I took to be built on pur¬pose, for the conveniency ot taking prospects, and went directly to it; and at thedoor I saw an old man, of whom I enquir¬ed, if he had ever a prospect glass, where¬by I might be favoured with a full view ofpf the royal City, which I supposed to be:he metropolis of the world. He told me,f I pleased to take deliberate observation,might perhaps have different apprehen-ions of that splendid City, than I had at•resent; but he assured me, it was so fullf intestine perplexity, that the inhabitantstad no real satisfaction in themselves. Hetherefore then fetched out his prospective,bnd told me, if I pleased he would shew meEHe situation of the place, whereby 1 mightie convinced, that its condition was notso happy, nor its glory so majestic as Iimagined.So 1 took a distinct view of the southside, and the foundation appeared to be no¬thing but bogs and quick sands, whichcould not possibly sustain the buildings,but. ere long they must inevitably sink,j I again took a view rtf the rlorth side,'and the foundation was alibituinihous and'sulphureous matter, interspersed with sub-j terraneous fire, which appeared ready in a•oment to break forth in flames!He then bid me look to thi; east, and I;aw a very formidabte army apptriathinghe City, with full power to ‘ destroy it*:nd they spread themselves with fury, like*the roaring of the sea! and there was atrembling upon all the hills, rivers, trees,and fielda; but all the inhabitants of theCity continued in a stupilrcation !When I had deliberated on these things,it filled me with astonishment, such ascaused my bowels to turn within me. Suchwas my surprise, and the horror that siev¬ed me, that I thought I was neither able tobear the sight, fly from it, nor stand myground!I asked the old man, if I might lodgeall night in that booth ? but he tola me*it was not a place for lodging, nor wouldany person in his right mind think it safeto sleep so near the City j yet, if I pleased,I might come in and rest myself a little.When I entered, I found four youngmen brethren, very carefully perusing amapt making very -particular remarks andobservations, and would sometimes enquirethe old man’s judgment, to inform themof the meaning of some things.Hereupon I asked, what place it wasthat so much attracted their attention ;:They tola me, it was the map of Babylonand Canaan, with all the bounds betweenthe two places ; and being determined toleave their native country, and travel tothe latter place, was the reason of theirpresent enquiries.bo 1 observed, and they aU made prepa*rations, with vigorous resolution, for theirjourney,with theAnd amongst other consultationsold man, their instructor, theyearnestly craved his advice, Whether itwere expedient tor each of them to takealong withhim afemalecompanion ? whichhe very chcarfully encouraged them to do,provided they were such as ‘."ere disno^cO-to go the samg way, and had 'their heartsengaged to seek the country. Other-wise, lie admonldied them, by all means,to avoid such companions as had no know¬ledge of, or delight in, the way they design-fed to travel. He pointed out to them manydifficulties in the way, where the companyof strangers would be of very dangerousconsequences', and further informed themof many instances,' what bad'effects tiavel-Jers, who had formerly gone that Way, hadfound from disagreeable companions : toprevent which inconveniences, the king cfthe country had made a law, that none ofhis subjects should join with strangers, tobe companions in that journey.1 waited to see what influence this advicewould have upon the minds of these youngmen. But 1 observed, that, at the first,none of them seemed to relish his counsel;for they had all either contracted someacquaintance with, or placed their fancyupon, maids who were natives of Babylon.V1 But the more they appeared engaged in6their affections, the more their instructorinsisted on the danger and pernicious con¬sequences which w’ould attend their havingsuch companions; and withal told them,the king had appointed one to attend themin their journey, whose name was Self-de¬nial, without whose company, it would beimpossible ever to reach th£ borders of Ca¬naan ; and that to choose a stranger for acompanion, would be euch an insult to himat the first setting out, as might cause amisunderstanding ail the way. For hispart, he told them, that to pretend to tra¬vel to Canaan, and to choose a Babylonianfor a companion, was a contradiction ; thathe could not doubt the sincerity of theirhearts, for if it was possible for a sinceretraveller to choose such a companion, yethe was very certain, it could not be so longas they continued in the right use of theirreason; and lie must discharge his consci¬ence in giving them timely admonition.I observed the event of those consulta¬tions, and I found the oldest, whose namewas Theomacus, could not be moved by allthese arguments, but absolutely chose onewho was an utter stranger to the path, norhad any delight therein, nor desire thereto.And when he had covenanted with her, sheproved so averse to going along with him,and so reluctant to pursuing his intendedJourney, that she prevailed upon him to de-7sist from his purpose: so he settled withher in Babylon. And poor Theomacus,with his companion, were both there whenthe City was destroyed, and perished inthe ruins!But the second brother, whose namewas Negotio,more regarded the counsel gi¬ven him, and seemed more heedful in hischoice of a companion that would be wil¬ling to go along with him ; so, at last, hemet with one who appeared compilable tohis desire. Though she had no knowledgeof the way, nor desire to walk in it, it onlyseemed a matter indifferent, as he was in¬clined to undertake the journey, she wouldcondescend'to compliment him with hercompany. This pleased the young manwell, as he thought he would both gratifyhimself in the choice of a companion, andalso act conformable to his directions ; buthe did not consider, that while her mindwas possessed with such indifference, hercompany must be very unprofitable. How-j ever they joined handsand shecompliment-ed him with her company. So they set outtogether, as if they would proceed on the; journey; but her indifferent mind soon;) prevailed so as to cool his warm affections,Iand caused their advances to be very slow’I observed,.when Imac Tomb heard of hismend Negotia joining hands with a Baby¬lonian, as he passed by his door,, he w£Qtg.8upon it, Ichabod.—As they travelled, theyw®uld frequently sit down in the shade,divert themselves with trifles, and oftenturn aside, which made their progress verysmall; and this indolence prevailed moreand more, until they came to a low valleyby the brink of the river Euphrates, wherethey turned aside and fell asleep; and whilethey slept, there arose a swell in the river,and the flood swept them both away.As for the third, whose name was Eu-phemius, when he heird the admonitions,they made deep impressions upon hismind, and filled him with awful apprehen¬sions ; he was convinced of the perniciousconsequences which would attend suchcompany, and appeared solicitous to avoidthem ; but how it was, I have now forgot,whether, before these considerations, he hadcontracted a correspondence, or whetherafterwards, by dalliance and giving latitudeto his fancy, he forgot himself, and wasentangled with a daughter of the ChaldeeSjwhich, betwixt the instructions he had re¬ceived, and his own misguarded affections,caused some strugglings of his mind: forthe person was of a complaisant disposition,nor seemed at all reluctant to the things he.had in view. Yet he plainly perceived, sh£had no taste to them, and that her innatedisposition was more to Babylon than Ca¬naan j she had never been convinced of the9misery and ruin that was approaching hernative country nor yet acquainted with thepleasures and delights of the land which hewas seeking after, nor had any desire tothe way ; but his strong inclination stitnu*lated him to reason upon every thing in.the most advantageous light, and to putthe best constructions upon every circum¬stance ; as thus, that her complaisance wassuch, that she would be no hinderance ormolestation to him ; that, by his example,he might engage her mind to that whichshe had no inclination to at present; thatit was very hard to be prohibited from onewho, in all other respects, appeared so de-sireable; and that, probably, he might neverfind a companion complete in every point.In short, he persisted in these kinds of rea-i sonings, until he had almost stupified his; senses; but still could not free himself from: convincing and dreadful apprehensions of• the evil of taking so indirect a step, and' the inconveniences which would attend it,until, at length, a resolute passion prevailedso far, that his eyes were darkened that he' scarce perceived the day from the night fi and during this obstruction of his senses,he went one evening, after the sun wasgone down, and joined hands with thisBabylonian; but when the sun arose in:the morning, and he was a little come toii himself, he then became sensible of the10rashness of his adventure, but it was toolate to recal it. He now saw into whatsnares he had brought himself, in what dif¬ficulties he was involved, and what incom-modities must attend his journey; and thatnow he had no way left, but to make thebest he could of the matter, and to grapplewith it as well as it should please God toenable him.So, after some bitter reflections, he en¬deavoured to smother his grief, and betakehimself to his journey, exerting his utmostskill and power to take his companion alongwith him : But, alas! when he attemptedto lead her into the way, he found she hadnot feet, she could not move a step furtherthan he must carry her, and a heavy bur¬then she proved. I observed some of histravel: When he met with dangers, dis¬tresses, or disappointments, he would beginto expose his grief, and unbosom his mindto his companion ; but she had no ears, nounderstanding, nor heart to sympathizewith him, nor was she capable of knowingthe nature of his complaint. If he was be¬set with robbers, wild beasts, or serpents,&c. he would sometimes make his com¬plaint to her; but she could neither assistnor comfort him. If he wanted directionsin the way, she could not give him anycounsel: If he was sick or wounded, andwanted cordials or oil to his wounds, she11had no hands to adminester any relieF; andas she never was capable of yielding himany succour or comfort in his sufferings,neither was she ever capable of partakingof his qyoyments. If he met with any gar¬den of spices, or refreshing springs, by thaway, he would offer her to eat and drinkwith him, but she had no taste; if he foundsweet flowers, she had no smell, and couldhave no delight in them; if he had anydelightful prospects, he would endeavourto shew them to his companion, but shehad no eyes; if he met with any fellowtravellers, he would invite her to enjoytheir company, but she was never foundwith any person who spoke the language ofCanaan, for it was a language that -She hadnot learned. Thus, whatever grief befelhim, or whatever enjoyment he was fa¬voured with, in all his journey, he never1 found any sympathyor congratulation fromher, nor were her affections otherwise mov¬ed than sometimes to despise, and some¬times to shew* disgust and disturbance ofmind: but as she had no life, capacity, sense,nor activity, to walk in the chosen path, shehad so much themore vivacity in things per¬taining to her own element; so that, todraw him aside, she would discover such asprightliness in all her senses, be so pleasantand diverting, and in all her co nversationsso engaging, that she proved a very great12hinderance to him in his journey; for tho*it was not in his power to find any thing,in his way, that would divert or influenceher mind, yet she frequently found outsomething, in her own path, which diddivert, and insensibly draw away his heart,by which he was many times entangled, andladen as with thick clay. Another thingI observed, that after he had begun hisjourney, the King of Israel (whose subjectbe was) sent them some young lambs tofeed, with a strict charge to teach them,diligently in the way, and bring them upin his nurture and admonition. But theperformance of this command was renderedimpracticable; for, as he instructed themto go'right, she induced them to wander;as he endeavoured to gather them, she scat¬tered them ; and as he fed them wdthwholesome food, she would furfeit themwith poisonous herbs: so, which way theKing disposed of them afterwards, I neverknew, bnt they never prospered under hiscare. Thus, her company never yielded ;him the least benefit or assistance through ihis whole journey, but was an alloy to all ihis joys, and an aggravation to all his sor- trows: And it frequently caused him very imuch regret of mind, to think of his own 1unadvised engagement, and bitter reflec- itions on his neglect of duty, wandering and tlost time which it had been the occasion of,13(as well as to observe the wretched stupifica-; tion of her mind, which was incapable of: sharing his, enjoyments, or of being affectedwith any of his calamities; insomuch that,it turned his pleasant journey into a weari¬some travel, through a lonesome wilderness.But, at last, through many dull hours andtiresome steps, he arrived near the bordersof the land, upon the bank of the riverJordan, where, in the midst of the stream,he beheld a Man, in a rich priestly vesture,! standing to stop the torrent till he was pas¬sed over, which made him approach theriver exceedingly transported with joy! Yeteven here, fye could not refrain from sigh¬ing, when he fpund it was not possiblefor his companion to go with him one stepfurther ; but the gloYy of this Prince, nowin view, and the joy of approaching thepromised land, soon revived his spirits, andmade him with readiness leave her to passthe river, (See Psalm xxiii.) Here his bur¬thens dropped off, and all his clogs were leftbehind ; he went on with fresh spirits andvigour, and chearfulness in his countenance,as if all things were forgotten, but the joythat was before him. But as he was tak¬ing some of his last steps, just ready to sethis feet on Canaan’s shore, he looked be¬hind him, and saw her sitting npon thesand, and beheld the river returning withsuch an overflow, as carried her along the14rapid stream into the Dead Sea. (Matth' vii. 27.)As for the last, whose name vvas Curinawhen he had heard the instructions and ad¬monitions, it wrought seridhs reflections onhis mind, and made him very deliberate,•notwithstanding he was a person of a^brightgenius, great vivacity, and a fine taste, hedetermined to deny liimseif; so, as whenhe saw the beauty, graceful mleri, and heardthe courteous conversatiori of the Babylo¬nish maids, he would withdraw, and turnaway his eyes, lest his heart should be en¬snared. (See Psalm cxix. 37.) However,it sometimes fell in his \^ay to have con¬versation with some who appeared veryengaging, especially One Jemima, \iihoseperson, birth, circumstances, and accom¬plishments, rendered her extremely agree¬able; insomuch, that many of his acquain¬tances greatly encouraged him to pursuethe opportunity, and riot neglect so Valua¬ble a prize. This made him stagger a littfe,for indeed she wanted no accomplishment,but the language of Canaan, to make herjust such an one as his heart could with, andcaused him to reason in his mind as follows.Q. Can I expect to find a person moredesireable, or one more likely to be a happycompanion and help-meet ?Jl. She may prove jo, 1q a person who canhe conformable is stay with her in Babylon^ but15as 1 am bound to another country, 1 may findbitterness in that which would appear happi¬ness to another.Q. But have I not reason to hope, thata person of her refined qualities may beendued with such blessings, as to make asuitable companion for me in my journey ?A. A person may be accomplished with allthe excellencies of Babylon, so as to appear su¬perior to many of the citizens, but if these beonly the accomplishments of their own country,they tan only snake a gradual difference betweenthem and the most abject peasant, whereas thereis a specific difference between a Babylonian andIsraelite.Q. But is it not very censorious, to lookupon such a worthy person as no betterthan a mere Babylonian ?A. Inasmuch as the difference is so groat,that a Babylonian cannot become a subject ofthe King of Israel unless he be formed anew, we .c.'nnot esteem them any other, so long as theredoes not appear the specific features of the selectNation, (See John v. 19, and iii. 3.) theidiom of their language, the mien of their be¬haviour, nor yet an earnest enquiry after thedesired land (Mat. viii. 20.) for we are not toform our conception of them different from thedescription given by the King’s scribes (Pro¬phets and Atostles. jQ. Is it not exceeding hard, that I mustdeny myself an object so agreeable ?A> The King of Glory denies nothing that itgood ; therefore, if this was really good, it woulck,not be denied me: keenly denies those things\which be knows would be evil, and it is a reat \kindness to us, to be denied of them. But sup- 5pose I thought it a real good, is it hard that he •should deny me one favour, who has given him-self to me, with all the blessings in heaven and.**earth 1 ' \Q. What if I never find one so agree-?able, who travels the happy road ?A. If / had the object now before me, myhappiness must entirely depend on the blessing oj \God ; and have / not reason to expect a blessing ton the right way than on the wrong ? Besides, ',as nothing is with-held or denied but because 1it is evil, whatever God is pleased to bestow .in his own way must be agreeable?O. May not the valuable qualificationsattending this person be so blessed, as to bea mean to make me happy and useful inthe way, though she walks not in it herstli? 1A. Have / any reason to expect to be madehappy by a person who is an utter stranger tothose things wherin my happiness consists ? Orcan I expect to find usefulness in the way, fromthat which cannot be enjoyed or obtained with¬out going out of the way ? Besides, what qua¬lification she is endued with, or however valu¬able accomplishments she is possessed of, it neverwill be her inclination to employ those excellencies17\io assist others in a way she herself hath no de¬slight in. (Psalm Ixxxiv. 1.12.Q. But seeing her disposition is so agree-'lable and complaisant, her mind so well(qualified with natural virtues, and decorat¬ed with so many acquired ornaments, isIt here any reason to doubt, but that a per-Ison thus prepared will haVe a taste forteaming and embracing the best things;and may I not therefore expect to engageher mind to walk the blessed way ?A. All the accomplisments that a person canf'ossibly receive from Babylon can never prepare ^vualify, jior dispose them for travelling to Ca-raan, nor will they, hy any means, induce orncline any person to receive'the real knowledgeM* love ihnt rr.f,.**.. . r • . .. -j   y, jar there ts nothing inhe nature of a Babylonian, without the infu-■ion of new principles, that is capable of relishinghe things of Canaan, (I Cor. ii. 14.) but thenore excellent her accomphsments are, the moretrongly her mind will be cemented to that cli-nate whence she received them. And on the: thcr hand, as 1 formerly was a Babylonian,though now blessed with new principles, the oldincture still remains in my nature, which, likeo much tinder, is ready to kindle with Baby-; viish fire ; whetefo-i, the greater excellencieshe is accomplished with, the greater influence\he will have to draw me into perpetual dangerf departing from the living God. (Matth.:xvi. 41.);I13When he had thus reasoned with himselfhe made a full pause, appeared in a strongagitation of mind, and a paleness arose irhis face. I heard him sigh, and say to himself, “ Whither has my mind been roving!,’Then, trembling, he lift up his eyes tcheaven, and earnestly cried, “ O God oall grace, deliver rae from temptation/*—And from that time, he never would regarcany of the damsels of the city, bujt said, hewould wait until he should find a true companion, and till then, he would walk aloneSo he went on his way, rejoicing that hthad escaped the snare, and carrying alongwith him this niotto, The Lord is my portion,enjoying great satisfaction in his mind, saying to himself, “ If my King see it good foime to be alone, I know he will bless thaistate unto me ; but if it be for my good tcenjoy a companion, I know his goodnesswill provide one for me, without my going 'out of the way to find one.’*But as he was going on his way, he ob-;served Miranda, a young virgin, who wa: jwalking the same road, and began to btfavoured with her company, but though;it advisable to bevery deliberate, (Prov. iv26.) He observed whether she closely at itended to the right way : so he perceivecher taking something out of her bosom idiligently perusing it for a while, then put itinto her bosom again, and peruse thtj,19straight path. Whereupon he went up tonier, and enquired where she was going ? She:old him, to Zion.—He asked her what.ihe had been perusing? She shewed him,it was the Map of the Road, (viz. the bi-•Ible,) which she took along with her for-her guide. He then began to enquire "whojshe was, and whence she came ? She toldijhim, she was by birth a Chaldean, by edu¬cation and conversation a Babylonian,ut was now seeking a better country.—le asked what expectation or encourage-ent she had in taking such a journey?he told me, she had the King’s Word,(Heb. vi. 57.) to make herian inhabitantin his Royal Palace, when she arrived atthe Upper Bethel, (Rev. xxi. 24. Isaiahxxiii. lb.) and to grant her sufficient de¬fence and sustenance all the way thither.—He asked, if she could be fully satisfied inthe King’s veracity ? She told him, thejfrauds and jelousies of Babylon had made•some impressions on her mind ; that sheS|had found it very difficult to.believe HimIthat could not lie, but His Majesty, hadCondescended to give her the strongest de-dnonstrations of his fidelity ; so that nowlihe was convinced she had no reason tojdoubt his goodness, for he had confirmedihis promise with an oath, and had givenjher to see that, in his own records, it wasDsealed -with blood ; that hitherto she had/20found his word verified to her, in stronglj!defending and abundantly supplying hepwants, so that she could set to her seal tha ihe was true. Then she also asked him divers questions relating to his travels ancenjoyments, and' he likewise answered he iin a free and satisfactory manner so tha ,their affections began to warm towardoneanother. \It was a very comfortabe interview, an«itheir minds were refreshed with each others!;conversation.—They appeared so agreeable]'one to another, that he began to think the»jmight be pleasant and profitable companion; iaii the way ; but first, he retired to dehbeon the conversation that had alread*passed; when the more he thought of hediligence in the pursuit ot her journey, heifixed satisfaction concerning the end of ither understanding in these things, laicdown for the guiding her in the way, andthe delight she appeared to take in medita¬ting on, and conversing about the j >ys atthe City of Habitation, &c. the more heas satisfied that she was a Prince’s daugh¬ter, travelling to the Royal Palace: Andwhen he had lifted up his eves to ldeaven.and earnestly besought Gou for direction,and a blessing npon their further conversa¬tion, lie again came into her company.Afe r some further discourse, he asked herthe reason of her walking alone ? Sire told21him, she found but few travelling the sameroad, and she did not think it expedientto turn aside, or neglect her \vays for anycompany in the world, if she met withcompany such as delighted in the ways ofwisdom, she took pleasure theyin, for withsuch company she was refreshed and'strengthened in her journey; but otherwise,she chose rather to be alone, to divert her-[self in examining her mapy yiewing the[springs by the way, fruit-trees, sweet flowershearing the singing of birds (Solomon's(Song, ii. 12.) meditating upon the gloriesof her Prince, and the joys she should havelin his presence, &c. (Isaiah xxxiii. 17 ) SoIthat tho’ company was pleasant, when sheOould enjoy it, the delights in the way (Isa.ixii. 8. Solomon’s Song, xi. 4.-—v. l .j sup¬plied that want; and upon the whole, shepeither was anxious to have company, noriud any aversion against it, her design be¬ing to-enjoy that only which might bepose conducive to forward her in the way.i He then proposed, that since they hadfound each other’s conversation comfort-hblei and useful, it might be for dieir mutualadvantage to join together, and engage to<£eep company all the way. She told him,t was not for persons of their profession toilo any thing rashly, she would deliberatepn it.; so she retired, and prostrated herselfjiefore the King he- father, (Phil. iv. 6.):elling him the matter, imploring22to direct, declaring herself willing to enjoyor be denied any thing, so it were accordingto his will, and might be for his honour.He told her, she had already been informed,and well knew, what manner of personsthey must be, with whom it would be ex¬pedient for Kings’ daughters to keep com¬pany ; but if she found the person to be ofthe blood royal, (Rev. i. 6.) and enduedwith princely qualities, she was at her fullliberty^ and moreover, by him, it shouldbe esteemed honourable, (Heb. xir. 4.) So,when these two lovers met again, havingdeliberately consulted between themselvesall such things as they conceived necessaryrelating to such an engagement, consideringthe King’s statutes thereupon, and jointlypetitioned his Majesty’s presence with them,and his blessing on their undertaking, theyjoined hands with great satisfaction and se¬renity of mind, rejoicing to see themselves'preserved from so many snares, attd thus 'happily united by a divine hand^Oeri.ni; 4.)I then observed these happy companionspushing their journey,-* and saw verilied in'an ancient council' (a help-meet,) forthfey 1were sincere friends, pleasant companions,faithful partners^ and useful assistants toeach V>ther. if they met with’idifficulties'by the way, they would take eachdjthctf Hy *the hand to support thdm, (Ecele&' iV.Jrid, ■12.) in dangers, they would counsel 'and -•m.. H5fW lirtlTOi / 4 * A CD* ’23stand by one another; in sorrows theywould sympathise and comfort oine another;if beset with enemies, one would watchwhile the other slept; if one were sick, theother would comfort with cordials, (Col. iii.2.) if one were indisposed in mind, the o-fcher would divert with some sweet song, or[iiscourse concerning the pleasant land ; ifme were at a loss concerning any part of thetray, the other would assist in searching andxplaining the directions; if one were ready*o turn aside, the other would caution and)idmonish of the danger ; if one were em¬ployed in any service, the other would beready to assist therein ; if one found a re-reshing spring by the way, would call the)ther to come and drink ; if one found any■efreshing fruit, sweet spices or delightfullowers, would pluck and bring to the other;f one heard any joyful tidings, would come■ejoicing and tell the other, if one had anyPeasant prospects of the kingdom, wouldondeavour to shew them to the other; ifone was blessed with any special favours,he other would congratulate and rejoice|»n the occasion, 6cc. (Eccles. iv. 9.)Then I was convinced, that two are betterban one; and yet it was manifest that theyvere no more twain, for I knew not w’he-her to call them two souls dwelling in one»ody, or one soul inhabiting two bodies:'Ut it appeared very conspicious, that twovere become one.24So I still observed this truly united pair (Mark"x*, 8,<)i advancing in the way, for they greatly con¬tributed to help each other forward : many diffi- Jcuiries they surmounted, and many rich blessingsthey enjoyed, as they travelled in the way ; at lastthey arrived at a pleasant hill in view of the Landof Promise, full of delights, refreshing fruits,pure streams, .*nd desirable entertainments. Herethey first sat down, and rested in a delightful ar¬bour, blessing God, and congratulating one ano¬ther, in consideration of their enjoyment. Thenthey went and refreshed themselves among thefruit's ard fountains, and afterwards they ascendedto a tower, where was a large prospective glass,from whence they looked back upon Babylon, andsaw it all in flames, and the country turned toburning pitch. Then they gave praise and gloryto God for their wonderful deliverance they hailm the way Then they took a prospect of the landbefore them, and saw Jerusalem, the Royal Pa¬lace, the goodly Mountain of Lebanon, the clus¬ters of Eshcol, and all the rivers flowing withmilk, and the hills dropping down sweet wine ?Then they looked below to the streams of Jordanfand beheld the great High Priest, in his shiningrobes, waiting to carry them over. Psalm xxiii.4. Isa. xxxiii. 21. Rev. xix. 8. But I awoke,and behold it was a Dream.$ut the thing was certain, and the interpre¬tation thereof sure.FINIS..