fhelaird ofCOOIi’S OHONT.BEING,\ Copy of several Conferences and Meetingsthat passed betwixt the Rev Mr Ogilvie,late Minister of the Gospel at Innerwickin East Lothian and the Ghost of MrMaxwell, late Laird of Cool.As it was found in Mr Ogilvie’s closet after hisdeath, very soon after these Conferences.[[WRITTEN BY HIS OWN HAND.3FtLKIRK:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.Iff: cid C.TVI li'.T '< tVlb-lif! I t.iVr.COPY OF CONFERENCES, &c.Upon the third of February, 1722, at seveno’clock at night, after that l had parled withThurston, and coming up the burial-road,one came up riding after me. Upon hear¬ing the noise of the horse’s feet I took it tobe Thurston ; but looking back and seeingthe horse of grey colour, I called, Who’sthere? The answer was, The Laird ofCool, be not afraid. Looking to him withthe little light the moon afforded, I took himto be Collector Castlelaw, who had a mind toput a trick upon me, and immediately I struckwith all my force with my cane, thinking Iwould leave a mark upon him that wouldmake him remember his presumption; but,although sensible I aimed as well as ever I didin my life, yet my cane finding no resistance,but flying out of my hand to the distance ofsixty feet, and observing it by its white head,I dismounted and took it up, but had somedifficulty in mounting again, partly by reasonof a certain sort of trembling throughout mywhole joints, something also of anger had itsshare in my confusion; for though he laughtwhen my staff flew out of my hand, comingup with him again (who halted all the time1 was seeking my staff,) I asked him oncemore who he was? He answered, The Lairdof Cool. I enquired, First, if he was theLaird of Cool. Secondly, What brought himhither? And, Thirdly, V\ hat was his busi-ness with me ? he answered, The reason thatI want you is, that I know you are disposedto do for me what none of your brethren inNithsdale will so much as attempt, though itserve never so good a purpose. I told himI would never refuse to do any thing to servea good purpose if I thought 1 was obliged todo it as my duty. He answered, Since I hadundertaking what few in Nithsdale would, forhe had tried several persons on that subject,who were more obliged to him than L wasto any person living. Upon this I drew mybridle-reins, and talked in surprise, askingwhat I had undertaking ? He answered, thaton Sabbath last, L heard you condemnedMr Paton, and the other ministers of Dum¬fries, for dissuading Mr Menzies from keen¬ing his appointment with me;* and if youhad been in their p'ace, you would have per¬suaded the lad to do as I desired, and that youwould have gone with him yourself, if he hadbeen afraid; and if you had been in Mr Pa-ton’s place, you wmuld have delivered mycommissions yourself, since they tended to doseveral persons justice I asked him, PrayCool, who informed you that I talked at thatrate ? To w hich he answered, You must knowthat we are acquainted with many things thatthe living know nothing about ; these thingsyou did say, and much more to that purpose,and deliver my commissions to my lovingwife. Upon this 1 said, ’Tjs a pity, Cool,cmjJ'ijy: '* See note at the bottom of page 5.1 vm o4that you wh6 know so many things, shouldnot know the difference between an absoluteand conditional promise; I did indeed, at thetime vou mention, blame Mr Paton, for Ithought him justly blameable, in hinderingthe lad to meet with you, and if I had beenin his place, I would have acted quite thereverse; but I did never say, that if youwould come to Innervvick and employed me,that I wotdd go all the way to Dumfries onsuch an errand, that i« what never so muchas entered into my thoughts. He answered,what were your thoughts, I don’t pretendto know, but I can depend on my informationthat these were your words; but I see youarc in some disorder, l will wait upon 3’ouwhen you have more presence of mind.By this time we were at James Dickson’sinclosure below the church-yard ; and when1 was recollecting in my mind, if ever I hadspoken these words he alledged, he broke offfrotn me through the church-yard, withgreat violence than ever any man on horse¬back was capable of, with such a singing andbuzzing noise, as put me in greater disorderthan 1 was in all the time I was with him.I went to my house, and my wife observedmore than ordinary paleness in my counte¬nance, and would alledge that somethingailed me. I called for a dram, and told herI was a little uneasy. After I found myselfa little refreshed, 1 went to my closet tomeditate upon the most astonishing adventureof my whoie life.9m08 9in ovig uriB ti3(lJ93pJ ow 9fni3 onJUpon the fifth of March, 1792, being atHare-head, baptizing the shepherd’s child,1 came off at sun-setting, or a little after,and near A’illiam White’s march, the Lairdof Cool came up with me as formerly; andafter his first salutation, bade me not be afraid.1 told him 1 was not in the least afraid, intbe name of GOD, and Christ my Saviour,that he w ould do me the least harm; for Iknow that he in whom I trusted was stronger,than ail they put together; and if any of themshould attempt to do, even to the horse thatI ride upon, as you have done to Dr. Men-zie’s man, if it be true that is said, andgenerally believed about Dumfries, I havefree access to complain to my Lord andMaster, to the lash of whose resentment youare liable now as before*.Cool. You need not multiply words uponthat head, for you are as safe with me, andsafer, if safer can be, than when I was alive.Ogil. Well, then, Cool, let me have apeacable and easy conversation with you for* What I know conceniing the matter is this : Theservant of Doctor Menzie, Physician at Dumfries, toldhis master anti many others, that the Laird of Cool,lately dead, appeared to him, rode him down, and killedhis horse.—That lie appointed him to meet him sometime after tit such a place; which he promised to do;but Mr Pa toll (then Minister of Dumfries) advised himto break that promise. Mr Ogilvie, (then MiuisterofImierw'ck, near Dunbar,) on hearing this, blamed MrPaton much, saying, Had he been there, he would notonly have advised him to keep his promise, but wouldhave gone with him. JAMES HAMILTON.Dunbar, May 26, 1784. Arinin. Mag. 1785.6the time we ride together, and give me someinformation about the affairs of the otherworld, for no man inclines to lose his time inconversing with the dead, without hearing orlearning something that’s useful,Cool. VVTeIl, sir, I will satisfy you as faras I think it proper and convenient. Let rc>eknow what information you want to know.Ogil. May 1 then ask you, if you be in astate of happiness or not ?Cool. There are a great many things I cananswer, that the living are quite ignorant of;there are a great many things that, notwith¬standing the additional knowledge I haveacquired since my death, that 1 cannot an¬swer; and there are a great many questionsand things that you may start, of which thelast is one, that I will not answer.Ogil. Then I know how to manage ourconversation ; for whatever I shall enquire ofyou 1 see you can easily shift me ; so that Imight profit more by conversing with myself.Cool. You may try.Ogil. Well, then, what sort of a body isthat you appear in; and what sort of a horseis that you ride upon, which appears to be sofull of mettle ?Cool. You may depend upon it, it is notthe same body that I was witness to yourmarriage in, nor in which 1 died, for that isin the grave rotting; but is such a body thatserves me in a moment, for I can fly as fleetwith it as my soul can do without it; so thatalso I can go to Dumfries and return again,7before you can ride twice the length of yourhorse, nay, if 1 have a mind to go to London,or Jerusalem, or to the moon, if you please,1 can perform all these journeys equally soon,for it costs me nothing but a thought or wish;for this body is as fleet as your thought, forin the moment of time you can turn yourthoughts on Rome, I can go there in person;and as for my horse, he is much like myselffor he is Andrew Johnston, my tenant, whodied forty eight hours before me.Ogjl. So it seems when Andrew Johnstoninclines to ride, you must serve him in thequality of an horse, as he does you now.Cool. You are mistaken.Ogil. I thought that all distinctions be¬tween mistresses and maids, lairds and ten¬ants, had been done away at death.Cool. True it is, but you do not take upthe matter.Ogil. This is one of the questions youwon’t answer.Cool. You are mistaken, for that questionI can answer and after you may understand it.Ogil. Well, then, Cool, have you neveryet appeared before God, nor received anysentence from him as a Judge.Cool. Never yet.Ogil. I know you was a scholar Cool, and’tis generally believed that there is a privatejudgment, besides the general at the greatday: the former immediately after death,—Upon this he interrupted me, arguing,8Cool. No sucli thing, no such tiling ! Notrial, no trial till the great day ! The heavenwhich good men enjoy after death, consistsonly in the serenity of their minds, and thesatisfaction of a good conscience, and thecertain hopes they have of eternal joy, whenthat day shall come. The punishment, orhell of the wicked immediately after death,consists in the dreadful stings of an awakenedconscience, and the terrors effacing the greatJudge ! and the sensible apprehensions ofeternal torments ensuing ! And this bears stilla due proportion to the evils they did whenliving. So indeed the state of some good folksdiffer but little in happiness from what theyenjoyed in the world, save only that they arefree from the body, and the sins and sorrowsthat attended it. On the other hand, thereare some who may be said rather not to havebeen good, than that they are wicked ; whileliving, their state is not so easily distinguishedfrom that of the former; and under thatclass comes a great head of souls; a vastnumber of ignorant people, who have notmuch minded the affairs of eternity, but atthe same time have lived in much indolence,ignorance and innocence.Ogil. I always thought that their rejectingthe terms of salvation offered, was sufficientground for God to punish them with hiseternal displeasure ; and as to their ignorance,that could never excuse them, since theylive in a place of the world, where the true29knowledge of these things might have beeneasily attained.Cool. They never properly rejected theterms of salvation ; they never, strictly speak¬ing, rejected Christ ; poor souls, they have asgreat a liking both to him and heaven, astheir gross imaginations were capable of.Impartial reason must make many allow¬ances, as the stupidity of their parents want ofeducation, distance from people of good senseand knowledge, and the uninterrupted ap¬plication they were obliged to give to theirsecular affairs for their daily bread, the im¬pious treachery of their pastors, who per¬suaded them that if they were of such a partyall was well; and many other considerations,which God, who is pure and perfect reasonitself, will not overlook. these are not somuch under the load of divine displeasure,as they are out of his grace and favour ; andyou know it is one thing to be discouragedand quite another thing to be persecuted withall the power and rage of an incensed earthlyking. I assure you, men's Gees are not morevarious and different in the world, than theircircumstances are after death.Ogil. 1 am loath to believe all that youhave said at this time, Cool, (but I wall notdispute those matters with you) because somethings you have advanced seem to contradictthe Scriptuies, which I shall always look uponas the infallible truth of God. For 1 find,in the parable of Dives and Lazarus, that.10the one was immediately after death carriedup by angels into Abraham’s bosom, and theother thurst down immediately to hell.Coon. Excuse me, sir, that does not con¬tradict one word that I have said, but youseem not to understand the parable, whoseonly end is to illustrate the truth, that a manmay be very happy and flourishing in thisworld, ai d most wretched and miserable inthe next; and that a man may be miserablein this world, and more happy and gloriousin the next.Ogil. Being so, Cool, I shall yield thatpoint to you and pass to another, which hasafforded me much speculation since our lastencounter; and that is, How ymu came toknow that I talked after the manner that Idid concerning Mr Baton, on the first Sab¬bath of February last. Was you presentwith me, but invisible? He answered veryhaughtily, No, sir, 1 was not present myself.I answered, I would not have you angry,Cool ; I proposed this question for my ownsatisfaction, but if you don’t think proper toanswer, let it pass. After he had paused,with his eyes on the ground, for three or fourminutes of time at most, with some haste andseeming cheerfulness, says,Cool, Well, sir, 1 will satisfy you in thatpoint. You must know' that there are sentfrom hea/en, angels to guard and comfortand to do other special good services to goodpeople, and even the spirits of good men11departed are employed in that errand.Ogil. And do you not think that everyman has a good angel ?Cool. No, but a great many particular menhave ; there are but few houses of distinctionespecially, but what have at least one attend¬ing them; and from what you have alreadyheard of spirits, it is no difficult matter tounderstand how they may be serviceable toeach particular member, though at differentplaces at a great distance. Many are thegood offices which the good angels do tothem that fear God, though many times theyare not sensible of it, and I know assuredly,that one powerful angel, or even an activeclever soul departed, may be sufficient forsome villages : but for your great cities, suchas London, Edinburgh, or the like, there isone great angel, that has the superintend¬ance of the whole; and there are inferiorangels and souls departed, to whose particularcaie such a man, of such a particular weightor business, is committed. Now, sir, the king¬dom of Satan does ape the kingdom of Christas much in matters of politics, as can be,well knowing that the court of wisdom isfrom above; so that from thence are sentout missionaries in the same order. Butbecause the kingdom of Satan is much betterreplenished than the other, instead of onedevil, there are in many instances two orthree commissioned to attend a particularfamily of influence and distinction.Ogil. I read that there are ten thousandtimes ten thousand of angels that wait uponGod and sing his praise, and do his will*and I cannot understand how the good angelscan be inferior in number to the evil.Cool. Did 1 not say, that whatever thenumber be, the spirits depai ted are employedin the same business ; soithat as to the numberof original deities, whereof Satan is chief,I cannot determine, but you need not doubtbut there are more souls departed in thatplace, which in a loose ser^e you^call hell, byalmost an infinity than what are gone to thatplace, which in a like sense you call heaven,which likewise are employed in the samepurpose: and I can assure you by the bye,that there is as great a difference betweenangels both good and bad, as there is amongmen, with respect to their sense, knowledge,cunning, cleverness, and action ; nay* whichis more, the departed souls on both sides out¬do several, from the very first departureof the original angels. This you will perhapsthing a paradox, but it is true.Ogil. I do not doubt it, but what is thatto my question, about which I am solicitous fCool. Take a little patience, sir; from whatI have said, you might have understood me,if you had your thoughts about you. But 1shall explain myself to you. Both the goodand the bud angels have stated times of ren¬dezvous, and the principal angels, who havethe charge either of town, cities, or king-doms, not to mention particular persons, vil¬lages, and families, and all that is transactedin these several parts of the country, arethere made open; and at their re-encounteron each side, every thing is told, as in yourparish, in milns, kilns, and, smithies, onlywith this difference, that many things falseare talked at the living re-encounters, butnothing but what is exact truth is said ortold among the dead; only 1 must observeto you, that, as I am credibly informed,several of the inferior bad angels, arjd soulsof wicked men departed, have told manythings that they have done, and then whena more intelligent spirit is sent out uponenquiry, and the report of the former seemingdoubtful, he brings in a contrary report, andmakes it appear truth, the former fares veryill; nevertheless, their regard to truth pre¬vents it; for while they observe the truththey do their business and keep their station,for God is truth.Ogtl. So much truth being among thegood angels, I pm apt to think that lies andfalsehoods will be as much in vogue amongthe bad.Cool. A gross mistake, and it is not alonethe mistake which the living folks fall under,with respect to the other world; for the caseplainly is this, an ill man will not stick atany falsehood to promote his design ; so aslittle will an evil sould departed, stand at anything that can make himself successful; but14in admitting report he must tell the truth,or woe be to him. But besides their monthly,quarterly, or yearly meetings, or whateverthey be, departed souls acquainted, maytake a trip to see another yearly, weekly,daily, or oftener if they please. Thus thenI answer your question that you was so muchconcerned about; for my information wasfrom no less than three persons, viz. AndrewAikman, who attends Thurston’s family;Jawes Corbat, who waits upon Mr Paton;for at that time he was then looking afterMrs Sarah Paton, who was at your house;and an original emissary appointed to waitupon yours.At this I was much surprised, and aftera little thinking, I asked him, And is therereally, Cool, an emissary from hell, in what¬ever sense you take it, that attends my family ?Cool. You may depend upon it.Ogil. Andwhatdoyouthinkishisbusiness?Cool. To divert you from your duty, andcause you to do as many ill things as he can ;for much depend on having the minister ontheir side.Upon this I was struck with a sort of terror,which I cannot account for, nor express!—In the meantime he said several things I didnot understand. But after a little, I comingto my former presence of mind, said,Ogil. But, Cool, tell me in earnest ifthere be indeed a devil that attends my family,though invisible to us all.Cool. Just as sure as you. are breathing, butbe not so much dejected upon this informa¬tion, for I tell you likewise, that there is agood angel who attends you, who is strongerthan the other.Ogil. Are you sure of that, Cool ?Cool. Yes; there is one riding on yourright hand, who might as well have been else¬where, for I meant you no harm.Ogil. And how long has he been with me ?Cool. Only since we passed Brand’s-lee,but now he is gone. . OOgil. We are just upon Elensclugh, audI desire to part with you, though perhaps Ihave gained more by conversation than 1 couldhave done otherwise in a twelvemonth; Ichoose rather to see you another time, whenyou are at leisure ; and I wish it were at asgreat a distance from Innerwick as you can.Cool. Be it so, sir ; but 1 hope you willbe as obliging to me next re-encounter, as Ihave been to you this.Ogil. I promise y ou I will, as far as is con¬sistent with my duty to my Lord and MasterChrist Jesus: and since you have obligedme so much by information, I will answer allthe questions you propose, as far as consistswith my knowledge; but l believe you wantno information from me.Cool. I came not here to be instructed byyou, but 1 want your help of anotlier kind.Upon the 5th of April 1722, as I was re¬turning from old Hamstocks, Cool came up16with me on horseback, at the foot of theruinous inclosure, before we came to Dod;I told him his last conversation had provedso acceptable to me, that i was well pleasedto see him again ; and that there was a vastnumber of things that I wanted to inform my¬self farther of, if he would be so good as tosatisfy me.Cool. Last time we met, I refused you no¬thing you asked; and now I expect that youshall refuse me nothing that I shall ask.Ogil. Nothing, Sir, that is in my power,or that I can do with safety to my reputationand character. What then are your de¬mands ?Cool. All that I desire of you is, that as youpromised that on a Sabbath day you would goto my wife, who now possesses all my effects,and tell her the following particulars; andtell her in my name to rectify these matters.First, that I was owing justly to ProvostCrosby £50 Scots, and three years’ interest;but hearing of his death, my good brother,the Laird of C—1, and 1 forged a discharge,narrated the bond, the sum, and other par¬ticulars, with this honourable clause, “ Andat the time it had fallen by and could notbe foundwith an obligation on theProvost’s part, to deliver up the Bond as soonas he could bit upon it. And this dischargewas dated three months before the Provost’sdeath. And when his son and successor,Andrew Orosby, wrote to me concerning this17Bond, I came to him and showed him theforged discharge, which silenced him; so thatI got up my bond without more ado. Andwhen I heard of Robtrt Kennedy's death,with the same help of C 1, I got a billupon him for £190 of which I got full andcomplete payment, C 1 got the half.—When I was at Dumfries, the same day thatThomas Grier died, to whom 1 was owingan accou.ft of £36, C 1, my goodbrother,was then at London, and not being able ofmyself, being but a bad writer, to make outa discharge of the account, which I wantedexceedingly, I met accidentally with oneRobert Boyd, a poor writer lad in Dumfries :l- took him to Mrs. Garnock’s, and gave hima bottle of wine, and told him that I had paidThomas Grier’s account, but had neglectedto get a discharge; and if he would help meto one I would reward him. He flew awayfrom me in a great passion, saying, he wouldrather be hanged; but if I had a mind forthese things 1 had better wait till C 1came home. This gave me great troublefearing what C 1 and I had done formerlywas no secret. I followed Boyd to the streetand made an apology, saying l was jesting,commending him for his honesty, and got hispromise never to repeat what had passed. Isent for my cousin B—m H—rie, your good-brother, who with no difficulty for a guineaand a half, undertook and performed all thatI wanted; and for a guinea more made me up18a discharge fur £200 Scots that I was owingto your father-in-law, and his own friendMr Muirhead, which discharge I gave toJohn Ewart, when lie desired the money;and he, at my desire, produced it to you, whichyou sustained.n great many of the like instances weretold, of which I cannot remember the per¬sons names and things; but, says he, whatvexes me more than all these, is the injusticeI did to Homer Maxwell, tenant to my LordNithsdale, for whom I was factor. I bor¬rowed 2000 merks from him, 500 of which heborrowed from another hand: I gave himmy bond, and, for reasons l contrived, Iobliged him to secrecy. He died within theyear, and left nine children, and his wifehad died before himself, 1 came to seal uphis papefs for my Lord’s security; his eldestdaughter entreated me to look through themall and to give her an account what was theirstock, and what was their debt. I very wil¬lingly undertook it, and in going through thepapers, I put my own bond in my pocket.His circumstances proving bad, his nine chil¬dren are now starving. These things I desireyou to represent to my wife ; and take herbrother with you, and let them be immediate¬ly rectified, for she has a sufficient fund to doit upon ; and if it were done, I think l wouldbe easy and happy; therefore I hope you willmake no delay.After a short pause, I answered, It is a19good errand, Cool, you are sending me todo justice to the oppressed and injured ; butnotwithstanding that, I see myself come infor £200 Scots, yet I begged a little time toconsider the matter. And since I find youare as much master of reason now as ever,and more than ever, l will reason upon thematter in its general view, and then w:threspect to the expediency of my being themessenger; and this I will do with all mannerof frankness. From what you have said, Isee clearly what your present condition is, sothat I need not ask any more questions uponthat head ; and you need not bid me takecourage, and be not afraid of you, for at thismoment l am no more afraid of you than anew-born child.Coot,. Well, say on.Ogil. Tell me then, since such is yourability that you can fly a thousand miles inthe twinkling of an eye, if you desire to dothe oppressedjusticebeas greatasyoupretend,what is the reason you don’t fly to the coffersof some rich Jew or Hanker, where are thou¬sands of gold and silver, invisibly lift and in¬visibly return it to the coffers of the injured ?And since your wife has sufficient fund, andmore, why cannot you empty her purse, in¬visibly, to make these people amends?Cool. Because 1 cannot.Ogil. If these things be rectified, you wouldbe easy and happy; 1 don’t at all credit that,for whatever justice may be done to the peo-QOpte, yet the guilt of the base action always re¬mains upon you.Cool. Now you think you have silencedme and gained a noble victory; but I willshow you your mistake immediately; for I can¬not touch any gold or money, by reason ofthese spirits that are stated guardians of justiceand honesty.Ogil. What is that you tell me, Cool? Donot unworthy fellow's break houses every nightand yet you, that can put yourself into somany hundred different shapes in a moment,cannot do it? What is that you tell me,Cool?Cool. ’ fis true, Sir, against the living, menmay find out some probable means of securingthemselves; but if spirits departed were al¬lowed, then no man would be secure; for, inthat case, every man that 1 had a prejudice atwould soon be beggared.Ogil. Might you not go to the mines ofMexico and Peru, where those little sumswould not he missed ?Cool. No, Sir, for the same reason.Ogil. But Cool, there is so much treasurelost in the sea, you may easily dive into thebottom of it, search that, and refund thosepeop'e their losses, where no man is injur¬ed.Cool. You are a little too forward thisnight, Sir, and inclined much to banter:What I’ve said might satisfy you, but sinceit does not, I’ll tell you further, that no21spirits, good nor bad, had the power to takeany money or gold; the good never do,though the bad, it' once in an age, it is nosmall quarrel; for if it were allowed them,then they would be very successful in theirbusiness, and never fail of gaining theirpoints.Ogil. What binders them, Cool?Cool. Superior power, that governs andguards them.Qgtl. You have satisfied me entirely uponthat bead. But pray, Cool, what is the rea¬son that you cannot go to your wife yourself,and tell her what you have a mind ; I shouldthink this a more sure way to gain yourpoint.Cool Because I will not.Ogil. That is not an answer to me, Cool.Cool. That is one of the questions that Itold you long ago I would not answer; but ifyou go as I desire, I promise to give you fullsatisfaction after you have done your business.I rust me for once, and believe I will notdisappoint you.Upon the 10th of April, 1722, comingfrom old Cambus, upon the post road, 1 metwith Cool upon the head of the heath, calledthe Pees. He asked me if l had consideredthe matter he had recommended ? I told himI bad, and was in the same opinion 1 was inwhen we parted; that I would not possiblyundertake his commissions, unless he couldgive me them in writings under his hand.I told him that the list of his grievances wereso great, that I could not possibly rememberthem without be:ng put in writing ; and thatI wanted nothing but reason to determine mein that and all other affairs of my life—Iknow, said he, this is a mere evation ; but tellme if the Laird of Thurston will do it ? I amsure, said 1, he will not; and if he should, Iwould do all that 1 could to hinder him ; for Ithink he has as little concern in these mattersas myself. But tell me, Cool, is it not as easyto write your story as tell it, or ride on what-do-you-call-him, for I have forgot your horse’sname.Cool. No, sir, it is not; and perhaps Imay convince you of the reasonableness of it*afterwards.OctL. I would be glad to hear a reasonthat is solid, for not speaking to your wifeyourself. But however, any rational crea¬ture may see what a fool I would make ofmyself, if 1 would go to Dumfries, and tellyour wife that you had appeared to me, andtold so many forgeries and villanies that youhad committed, and that she behoved to makereparation : the consequence might perhapsbe, that she would sCold me; for she wouldbe loth to part with any money »he possesses,and therefore tell me I was mad, or possiblypursue me for a calumny. How would fvindicate myself? How would I prove thatever you spoke with me? Mr Paton, andother ministers .in Dumfries, would teil me,123the devil had spoken with me; and whoshould I repeat these things for truth, whichhe, that was a liar from the beginning, hadtold me: C—p—1 and B—m H—rie wouldhe upon me, and pursue me before the Com¬missary ; and every body would look upon meas brain-sick or mad : therefore I entreat youdo not insist upon sending me so ridiculous anerrand. The reasonableness of my demands1 leave to your own consideration, as youdid your former to mine. But dropping thematter till our next interview, give me leaveto enter upon some more diverting subject;and I do not know, Cool, but the informationyou have given, may do as much service tornankind, as the redress of all these grievanceswould amount to.[Mr Ogilvie died very soon after.]aid wca od tn'iboil >v, t-uj !: .Ilul mid bodoolr; ni oet d or;-i   •tomtol aid InJud ovil bluorbFINIS.—, hooriivrioo am: od f/nsdi od; j<i : io ;nr.mgfonadil n«olaaeq ,8bv/ nodi•vjisI oi!j ui—oil ;, !l (rtooar.di ban .etonoIn the Arminian Magazine for 17S5, (in addition towhat was mentioned at the bottom of page 5,) DoctorHamilton says, “ t he ensuing relation to what follow¬ed,” (viz. an account of the conferences,) “wrote inMr Ogilvie’s own hand, was found in his desk afterhis death by Mrs Ogilvie; she gave it to Mr h. nowminister at Oldhamstock, who gave it to me.24bftff iivgfi oJjoifw firfR ; 3fri tfjfflail}// tfUin} if/} a-:!! ii.aqoi 1 MiroffeA.WONDERFUL STORY,0 .. '' Tj 7/ / : »'’ . , • '? y «ffr6m a book entitlednfi suniaDum <« an: iroqo :> -n, Jon o}»VIS r rs FROM THE world ofDO/ sfs 1a n o moy oJSPIRITS.avca. s.fi ii ^wamaJat Jxan mo ilil laJJernitfii orAandthand ,IooO fv/onj} Jon oh 1 fansClergvrnnn, who lived in the Massachusetts,d had ejTtemiihing an opinion, for morean fifty years, that such stories wereonly the vapours of distempered and weakbrains, was convinced at f&st in the followingmanner: Being in his own garden, he saw hisown likeness or apparition/dressed just as hethen was, passed by him, and looked him fullin the face. He ran into the house in agreat surprise, told his family what he hadseen, that he was convinced of his formererrors, and that he feared he should live buta few days. His words proved true, for hedied in a short time after.ifr ’tiri Tii hi.9111 oJ Ji 97IT,r>ifi;il I '/rn t'ifivfiyQ *il/!; HfvCi'gO l f vR ilii. if' aidmi // rrf'joJitnui'ibiC/ Ji; TjU iuirxiron