Wonderful AccountOFMr. George Spearing,(A Lieutenant in the Navy,)Who fell'into a Goal-Pit in Northwoodfidir,nearGiaigow; where he remainedSeven Days and Seven Nights,without any other Support • ' \\' than Rain Water. 1 ' 'ALSO, . »The Sarprifmg manner of his Deliverance,with an Account oi his Behaviour whilein that melancholy fituation.To which is added,Hymn of Praife for his Deliverance,Pubiillicd by binrfclf, for tbe information ofhi* Frier ds artl the Public.PRINTED BY T JOHNSTON,M803.A* WONDERFUL ACCOUNTOF. Lieutenant GEORGE SPEARING. ''-On WednefUajTj Sept. 13. 1769, between‘ 3 and 4 o’clock atcernoon, I went into a little, wood, called North-vvoodlide, fituuted between'1 2 and 3 miles to the north-weft of Glafgow,with a defign to gather a few hazel nuts.—: I had.no: been in the wood above 15 minutes,1 nor gathered more than ten nuts, before I un-; : fortunately fell into an old coal pit, exactly51 feet deep, which had been made throughd a iblid rock. I XvaS fome little time inlbnftble.■, Qn recovering my recolledtion, Lfound myfelfv-’fitting nearly as a taylor does at his work,' tne blood flowing pretty fait from my mouth!> 1 thought I had broken a blood-veilel, and,confequently, had not long to live j but, to mygreat comfort, I foon difcovered that thebloodproceeded from a wound in ray tongue, whichX fdppofed I had .bitten in my fall. Lookingv, at my watch, it was ten minutes paft four, andgetting* up, I furveyed my limbV and, to myt in:xpreffible joy, found that not one of themwas broken. I-was foon reconciled to. my, fitualien, having Rom my clnldhodd thought\ thatAforaething V$fy extraordinary was tohappen do me in the courfe of my life; and IiL 'had not the leaft doubt of being relieved" mVhe morning: for, .the wood beinglmt fmad,( 3 )and fituated near a populous city, -it is muchfrequented, efpecially in the nut-feafon, and'there are feveral foot-paths leading thro* it. r 'Night approached, when it began to rain,| • not in gentle fhowers, but in torrents, fuch a. 1i is at the autumnal equinox. The pit was a-.bout 5 feet in diameter, but, not having beenj‘ worked for feveral years, the fubterranepus ,■paffages were phoaked up, fo that I was ex- ,pofed to the rain, which continued, with ffiialb1 - intermiflions, till the day of my rtfleafef, and, ;in a vpry fltbrt time I was ah over wet.In this comfortlefs condition I endeavourtu 'L to take fome repofe. A forked hick, whicji| I found in the pit, I placed diagonally to the . || iide of it, which ferved alternately lo- fuppbrtmy head as a pillow, or my body occafionailvv rwhich was much bruifed; but, in 'the wl.o'lp Ttime I remained here, I do not think that ever "1l, I flept an hour together. Having palled a very :. difagreeable and tedious night, 1 was iome- h| what cheered with the appearance of day-light# egI anc] the melody of a robin-redbreaft,vthat had" 1|| perched directly--over the mouth of the pit \ hI and this pretty little .warbler continued •o' Vjfjt ; jmy quarters every morning during my con-I hnement; wliich I.ccnlirupd into £ happy o- fmen of my future deliverance; and I fincerely' JbelieVe the truft I had in Provi'denco, and thecompany of this little bird, contributed muchto that fereniiy oT niind I confiaritly enjoyed.- !,-At the dlflance of about a hUundreU yards, in j1a-dire£ldiue from the pit, there was a vtnter ymill; the miller’s houfe was nearer to me, 'tiiffi.-'lfirid- ithe road to the mill was. Hill nearer : fo that Icould frequently hear the horfes going or, theroad to and from the mill.- Frequently 1 heard, 'human voices; and I could dillindly hear thei, ducks and hens about the mill. 1 made the 1beil ufe of my. voice on every occafion; but it |was to no manner of purpol'e; for the wind, |, which was eonllantly high, blew in a 1 me fromP the mill to the pit, which eafily accounts for| what I heard; and. at the fame time, my voice| -was carried the contrary way.ii I cannot fay I fuifered much from hunger; || after two or three days my appetite cpafed, j[i .hut my third was intolerable: and, though it 1almofl conflantly rained, yet I could not, till jn the third or fourth day preferve a drop of it,jr as the earth at the bottom of the pit lucked |it up as frit as it ran down. In this ditlrefsI fucked my cl oaths; but from them I could jextract but little moilture- The fliock I re-ceived -in the fall, together with the dillocation j;i of one of one of my ribs, kept me, 1 infrgme,(F in a cotvinual fever; Lcannot otbsrw ifr ac- !count dor - my fufi’cring fo much more fromb . third than I did Irani hunger. At bit I difee- jh 'yered the thiglf bone.of a bull almoil covered7 wih e '.rtit, whici, I n as afierv.ards informed*f frl! into tr.e pit about 18 years lx;fore me^ I't dug it up, and. the large-end of it .frit a, Cavityj- that,- I fuppofe, ur.giit contain a quart. This A.k the ■water gradually drained*in,to,j but fo very |'1;0 ‘flowriy, that it was a ponfiJeruble time beiore |j • I could dip a nut-lhell full at a time; which II emptied into the paleTof* my handj arc] foN { '5 ) . ; - ^.drank it. The waier-now be^a^'to inrrfeafepretty fafu lo that glad tfT enlarge myrefervoir, infe^nadh that, on the 4th'or 51b day,I had a fufficient fupply ; and this water wascertainly the prefei vatioaicf my lijc.At the bottom bf-tie *pit t[i€re were greatquantities of reptiles, ftcli -es frogs, toads*,large black fnails, or jlugs, &o. Thtfe noxi¬ous creatures would fi-eq^ntiy crawl aboutand often got into my vd’ervolr; .nerertfjekfa,'I thought it thefwe'etef? watet TJiad -v.er tailed,;and, at this ddlance of thnfe, the remembrance^of it is fo fweet, tijatV were it Row pcftibitt toobtain any of it, I am fare. I cculdhvvaUow itwith avidity. I have frequently taken both,frogs and toads cut of my neck, where, I fup-pofe,tbey took fkelter while Xflept.- The toadsI always dellroy.ed, but the/frogs I carefullypreftrved, as I did not krjow but I ntight-hfe1under the neceffity of eating tlient, whick^ifliould not have icftipled to kave done,, loixi *1been very hungry..Saturday, the 6th, tr.ere fell cut-lfttleand I had the, fatisfadlion tc hear •!;; vdiceco1!feme boys in the wood. Immediately I calledcut uilii all my might, but it. was all in v..tlto’ 1 afterwards learned that they, aitualliheard me-; but, being propefft^d with a® idleftory of.a u jkl m-iy he;r>q in the wood, {hevran aVay oiTright.d.^jleompthe next cay mat Jcttre o! my acqtni.ntaricat’h-av.e ackidemiy beard that I had gon* the ivks(6)I did, lent two or three porters out purpofelyto fearch the pits for me. Thefe men wentto the miller’shoufe,and made enquiry for me;hut, on account of the ?ery great rain at the. time, they never entered the wood, but cruellyreturned to their employers, telling.them they'..had fcarched the pit, and that I was not to be‘ found. Many people in my difmal fituattoni .would, no doubt, have died with defpair; but,y I tha/ik God, 1 enjoyed- a perfect ferenity of| mind; fo much fo, that on'the Tuefday-aher-■ -noon, and when I had been fix nights in the pit;:! I very compofedly, byway of amufement, fellto oonibin'g my wig on my knee, hummingtune, and thinking on Archer hi the-playCalled the Beaux Stratagem,if ' At length the morning (Sept. 20.) the happI nrorning for my deliverahee, came! a day thatI while my memory lads, I will always celebrate! with gratitude to Heaven! Thro’ the bramblesyand bufhes that covered the mouth of the pit,cOuld-difcover the fun fhining bright, and-•iv.y pretty warbler \va*s chanting his melodiousSlflrains, when my attention was rousfcl-by a(cohfuhd nolle of ft liman voices,.which feemed't« be approaching fall towards the pit. Imme-jcliatdy 1 called Sit, and mod agreeably'fur-rt Us tf fcveral .of my acquaintance, who were’Ho fearxjh of nie f As loon as they heard myliqice, they all run towards the pit, and I couldjMmgmfhawAl known voice exclaim,“ Good■feodMie is ft ill living!” Another of them,-la very, honed North-Briton, betwixt Ifisfur--iprife and joy,.Could not In.Ip aiding me, in thethem panitular directions how to proceed ingetting me out. -Fortunately, at that juncture, a Qollier be-I longing to a working pit. in the neighbourhood*was paffing along the' road, and hearing the\ umtlual noife in the wood, curiofity led him/to enquire into the caufe of it; by his affiftance,.( and a rope from the milf, 1 was foon fafely1 landed on term jin)ic. (continent or main land), ti The miller's wife very kindly brought fomer milk warm frotn the cow; but, on my coming;into the freth air, I grew faint, and Could nottaiie it.- Need I be a fit anted to acknowledge,; that the firli dictates of my heart prompted meto fall oil nvy knees, and. ejaculate my thankf-.: t giving to the God of my deliverance, frnce,'at this dilVant time, I never think of it but thetear of gratitude ftarts from my eye? . / i tTvcry morning while I \va$ in the pit, I tied;a knot in the corner, of my liandkerchief,'fup-I poling th^:, if I died there, and my body Ihoufdi be afterwards found, the mrmber of the knots.1- would certify how. many days l had lived.,—Almoft the fir ft queliion my friends afked me- was. How long I had been in the pit ? I ha$<fc-i mediately drew my hancikerchieF from my' pocket, and defired them to count the'knots,;on which they found 7, the exa^.ijuttiber of„/ nightd l had been there. • i, I was conveyed home, and every me to ufedi for ftrengtheriing my limbs, which were muchbenumbed \vith -the damp and coldnefg of the /;; (s >pit; but, throT the ignorance of my phyficians, :a raortification feized both my feet, by whichthe ikiri and all the nails of my left foot, andthree from my right foot, came ofr’iike a gloVe.The lleih at the bottom'of my foot being fe- |parated from the bones, I had it cut off; ’andit was 9 months after before I recovered.— |I have fmce been the father of 9 children. 'G. Speaving’s Hyinu of Praife.Almigbiy God! <ivbo, on this daytMy life from aeatb clidft favey'To Thee l notv prefumc to fray.Andfuture biejfings crave-.Ob! grant I ever fiay confefs-_ 'Tky gocdncfs Jhetvn to me ; *sv • *• " h 7/i> grateful heart and tongue ettfrefsTire praife that's due to'thee.If tile in tbh dreary pit. I lay,My life thou didfkfufltiihs. . Andfto my comfort, I may fay,’ •, ’ Thou gavft ref ref ring rain.k , /i this, thy providential careIf- to tha world made known,Aid teaches us to fnun difpairTor thou art God alone.\ l my life thou didft prefa vc,'■ ■■ ■ - ■ Ob! teach me bow to live/';. t; Td ck not from thy precepts fwerve ;„ . hf ■ This ideffuig to me give.T '-.AU- lyiarly, on this day,■#/ grateful tribute bring,InTjunble. thanks, to thee alway,. My Saviour, Gid, and King.. f I N I S.