VTRAGICAL HISTORYOFI JAKE ARKOED,COMMONLY CALLEDCRAZY JANE;ANDMR. HENRY PERCBVAL;GIVING AN ACCOUNT OFI THEIR BIRTH, PARENTAGE, COURTSHIP,AND MELANCHOLY END.FOUNDED ON FACTS.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.bKIMJKO LOB V ' h r X^EVrKVi'j a li v ' . ■ 7< --: * G<< Aivc; -//. vcc / I, Oh: . S' HEtRVA bEtfCiflVf •; >4DcoymoM! a C /rrsD•1YME -TB^OFO*OhXHVCICYr HiaLOUATHEHISTORYOFCRAZY JANEThis unfortunate beauty, whose wanderingsof imagination, through an ill fated attach¬ment, had gained her the appellation of CrazyJane, was the youngest daughter of Mr Ar¬nold a substantial tarmer in Wiltshire. Hehad four children by Margaretta, his excellentwife, who was still living; Lubin, Lucy, Ar-netta, and the lovely Jane, who, from her ear¬liest childhood, was remarkable for her superiorbeauty, and the elegance of her person; andjustly bore away the palm of admiration fromher juvenile companions. Her long hair, whichwas naturally formed into the most beauteoustresses, was of the lightest brown; her eysewere of the deepest blue, and at each glanceshot foith a radiant lustre beaming with ex¬pressions. She was tall, slender, and exquisitelyformed. Her lips were coral and her skin theunsullied mountain snow. Her voice was melo¬diously sweet; and an innocent, artless gaiety,displayed itself in all her ac tions. Such wasJane at the age of seventeen. As yet her heart4was free from the enslaving power of love. Herbeauty had, indeed, attracted many suitorsbut none of them had succeeded in gaining theaffections of the youthful maid. Lubin, heronly brother was in his twenty-fourth year, andwas as much endowed with musculine, as hissister was with feminine beauty. Lucy andAnnetta might both be entitled to the denomin¬ation of pretty agreeable girls, but no farther.About two miles distant from farmer Arnold,resided a Mr Percival, who having been manyyears a woollen draper in the city of London,had accumulated a decent fortune, retired, withhis daughter Rosetta who, alter her mother’sdeatn, had been his house-keeper, to the plea¬sant village of Rosewood, where thev inhabiteda small though neat mansion, built in the cot¬tage style, and surrounded by a beauteous gar¬den, bounded on the western side by a luxuri¬ant orchard, and on the eastern by a meander¬ing rivulet, which flowed in gentle murmers:while the distant clacking of the mill, and adeep sounding water-fall, added to the ruralbeauties of the scene.Next to the fair Jane, Rosetta was esteemedthe handsomest girl in that part of the country.She was in her nineteenth )ear, and her trulyamiable manners soon gained her the esteem ofthe surrounding families, and, amongst the restfarmer Arnold’s. Rosetta rdmired all the sis¬ter’s, but particularly attached herself to Jane.Their sentiments were congenial, and their chief*5happiness seemed to be in each other’s society.Often, with the permission of her parents, Janewould repair to Mr Percival’s, and reside withher dear Rosetta for three or four days at atime. Together they would wander through themazes of the adjacent wood, gather wild flowers!or fruit, or visit the cottages of the poor neigh¬bours, and relieve their wants as far as theirown ability would allow. Often as they roved,arm in arm, their discourse would turn on Henry,Rosetta’s brother, whom she tenderly loved, andsincerely regretted his absence.On their departure from London, Henry hadrefused to accompany his father and sister toRosewood, but accepted an advantageous offerwhich was made to him by a merchant, who wasdistantly related to the family, to remain with||J him in the capacity of his head clerk, which was| a very lucrative employment. Mr Percival andhis daughter had now been in Wiltshire twoyears, and as yet had received no vis’t fromHenry, who his sister represented as one ofthe finest youths of the age, both of mental andpersonal accomplishments.One morning Jane was agreeably surprisedby a very early and unexpected visit from Ro¬setta. Her young friend produced a letterwhich she had received late the preceding night.It was from Henry, and announced the pleasingintelligence, that he would be at Rosewood ohthe following Monday, where he meant to re¬main some time. His visit, he informed them,6was owing to his relation’s sudden determinationof quitting England for the ^Vest Indies, in or¬der to make a personal investigation of his pro¬perty ; and thither the youth felt no inclinationto accompany him, but resolved to repair toRosewood, and remain some time with his fatherprevious to his forming a new settlement forhimself.As soon as Rosetta had imparted the contentsof the letter, she intreated Mr Arnold to permithis three daughters to visit her on the dry ap¬pointed for Henry’s arrival, as her lather intend¬ed to make it a kind of a festival The farmerreadily acquiesced, and it was agteed that thefifir ones should repair to Rosewood at an earlyhour of the forenoon, and that Lubin shouldjoin the gay party at the commencement of theevening, share in theii pleasures, and escort hissisters home. Rosetta then departed; and thentervening time was spent by Farmer .Arnold’sdaughters in preprring all their village finery forthe occasion. Monday arrived, and with it aserious disappointment. Annette was seizedwith a sudden indisposition, and tne attendanceof Lucy was necessary. But, in compliancewith the desire of her parents Jane kept herappointment, as they were unwilling to depriveRosetta of the company of her friend. She wasdressed in a white robe and a straw hat, orna¬mented with a wreath of fancy flowers, was tiedunder her chin by a lilac ribbon. Passingthrough a grove in her way to Mr Percival’s,7she was overtaken by a young gentleman of th<*most prepossessing appearance, who inquired ofher the way to Rosewood. She immediatelyinformed him, and in a few moments conversationmade it known, that he was Henry Percival whoaddressed her. Tempted by the fineness of themorning, he had discharged his chaise at thelast town, and leaving his luggage at the Innproceeded or foot.Pleased with the society of each other, Henryand Jane proceeded on, arm in arm, to Rose¬wood where they were affectionately welcomedby Mr Percival and Rosetta, who had from thewindows of the parlour beheld the approach ofthe youthful pair.The return of Henry to his family was cele¬brated with the utmost festivity. The companyassembled on the occasion were plentifully re¬galed: and the young people danced on thegrass-plot that adorned the front of Mr Perci-val’s dwelling, Rosetta was Lubin’s partner,and Jane was Henry’s. Never did four personsappear so superlatively happy: joy beamed intheir eyes, and the glow of delight flushed ontheir cheeks. When the hour of separationarrived, young Percival insisted on accompany¬ing, alleging that, as the hour was very late, herbrother’s protection might not be sufficient toensure the safety of the gentle maid.From the sprightly gaiety of Henry, whichseemed to flow spontaneously from a pure unso-t8phisticated heart, no one around him had sus¬pected the traits of vice that lay lurking in hisbreast. His person and behaviour were formedto captivate; and he rarely failed to excite eitherfriendship, or the more ardent passion, love, inthose objects that he laboured to inspire withthem.His being Jane’s escort introduced him to Mr.Arnold and his wife, who, pleased with the man¬ners of their new visitor, and in considerationof his being the brother of their dear Rosetta,gave him a general invitation to the farm, whichhe eagerly embraced ; and availed himself ofevery opportunity that offered, to be in companywith the innocent Jane, and whisper in her ear,soft vows of love, and declare an affection neverto end but with life The heart of the youthfulmaid was not proof against the seducive powersof his tongue. Henry soon gained the entirepossession of her affections; nor was he longignorant of her sentiments in his favour. Thepleasing confirmation, instead of inspiring himwith the wish of calling her his own by indisso¬luble ties, and sharing with her the inestimableblessings of domestic felicity, only promptedhim to proceed in a base design he had formedagainst her honour, even at their first interview:A base ambition fired Henry’s soul. Not con¬tent with the handsome competency which hewould eventually derive from his father, and agenteel subsistance that he would earn himself,he had pre-determined never to marry, unless,9he could meet with some woman with an inde¬pendant fortune in her own hands: Indeed, forno other purpose than gaining such an endwould he ever have bestowed a thought onmarriage, but always treated the mention of thatsacred ceremony with unhallowed redicule. Asyet, no fair one, calculated to gratify his avari¬cious passions, had fallen in his way, but manya hapless fair one had become the victim of hisseducive arts. The besuty of the interestingJane, and the dispositions of herself and family,who, virtuous and benevolent in themselves,suspected no guile in others, appeared to thismonster of deceit as a fair opportunity to accom¬plish his base design, by luring her from a peace¬ful home.This depraved youth felt no difficulty in per¬suading Jane than his father would be averse tohis marraige with one who had so small a por¬tion. Alas! this he knew to be a false assertion,for Mr Percival would have very readily con¬sented, so great was his opinion of farmer Ar¬nold’s daughters, to have received any one ofthem into his family, but more especially Jane,who had ever been a great favourite with the oldgentleman Every one beheld a strong partia¬lity between Henry and Jane, and concludedthat it would lead to a lasting attachment; butnone, no not even Rosetta, or the brother andsisters of the maiden, even supposed that theirintercourse had proceeded to such a length.Every night, when the rest of farmer Arnold’s10family had retired to repose, Jane stole fiom herchamber to meet her lover in the grove, andwander whole hours, guided by Cynthia’s re¬flected light; Henry breathed all the vows ofan impassioned lover, and Jane listened withdelight, hor some months did the dear delusionlast ; and the breast of Jane was the abode oflove, innocence, and hope, tili one fatal hour,when the guardian angel of virtue slept, and thedemond of v;ce reigned triumphant, tire iil-fatedJane surrendered her virtue to importunitiesof the deceitful Henry, and bid adieu to peacefor ever—till she sank within the narrow con¬fines of the grave. vh ! ve fair daughters ofthe earth! nature’s choicest work! did yourightly consider the pre-eminence of virtue, andyour own conscious dignity, how few, if any,would depart from the path pointed out by rec¬titude, religion, and honour !At the next interview that took place betweenHenry and our unfortunate maiden, alter thefatal triumph of the former, her swolen eyes andaltered countenance, declared the poignancy ofher feelings, and that remorse had already takenpossession of her soul. Henry exerted all hiseloquence to sooth her griefs; even his callousheart received a pang at her altered appearance.His arguments renewed her smiles; ami he pro¬mised to repair to London in a few weeks, andseek for a situation in some commercial house,that should enable him to maintain his belovedJane, in case his father should be offended at?11their marriage, the solemnization of which wasto take place at Henry’s return to Rosewood.With such fallacious promises as these did heensnare the youthful victim of credulity to fur¬ther guilt, and lull the keeness of that sorrow hecould not wholly dissipate.Just at this period Lubin Arnold made rathersudden overtures to Mr Percival for the handof Rosetta; the declaration of his love beinghastened by the knowledge that Squire Swinfordhad already made proposals highly advantageousto her. Mr Percival resolved to decide thequestion by his daughter’s choice ; the prospectsof accumulating riches could not dazzel for amoment his understanding. Rosetta did nothesitate to declare her affection for Lubin, andan early day was appointed for their nuptials.The wedding was kept at Mr Arnold’s, whogave the entertainment in the true style of Eng¬lish hospitality, and his daughters exerted them¬selves in welcoming their new sister to her fu¬ture abode. It was agreed that Lubin, beingin partnership with his father, with his bride,should reside at the farm ; and that Lucy shouldtake upon herself the charge of Mr Percival’sdomestic affairs, and reside at Rosewood.The happiness of Rosetta, and the modestcheerfulness that displayed itself in her verylook during the nuptial feast, gave many a bit¬ter pang to the heart of lovely Jane.—Notthat she wished to see her friend less happy, orindulged the baneful passion of envy; no, but12it made hei feel the horrors of her own situation.Instead of a joyous bride, surrounded by ap¬proving friends, she was a miserable dependanton the honour of a man. cf whose veracity shehad of late strong and painful doubts. In thecourse of the evening, Jane found and opportu¬nity of conversing unobserved with Henry,and repose her griefs in his bosom. Howpowerful is the language of persuasion from thelips of those we love ! The youth called heavento witness, that she was more dear to him thanhis own life; and that he would sooner suiferthe most agonizing tortures that invention coulddevise, or cruelty inflict, than allow the idol ofhis heart to become the theme of babblingtongues. In short Jane soon felt a convictionthat she had wronged her lover by her suspi¬cions of his faith, and was eager to obtain hispardon for an offence that she blamed herself incommitting against their mutual love. Ere theyreturned to the company, Jane reminded Henrythat she thought the alliance that had takenplace in their two famines, w'ould remove thebar to their own union, as she could not sup¬pose Mr Percival would raise any objections toit, after he had to readily consented to join thehands of Lubin and Rosetta^ Master, as Henrywas of dissimulation, yet this reasonable sug¬gestion of the fair victim of his deceit staggeredhim : he was, what rarely occur^d to him, at aloss for an answer. At length, he stammeredforth a few sentences, almost incoherent, from13his agitation—that he would inform his fatherof their attachment, if his dear Jane insisted onsuch a sacrifice, which he knew would be attend¬ed with fatal consequences to his future pros¬pects. “ Consider, that Lubin’s situation andproperty are far superior to my sister’s; he didnot object to the alliance of the Arnold’s withhis daughter; but old age, my best love, will beavaricious; and he has far higher views for hisson.” “ Which he will doubtless,’’ repliedJane, the tears starting from her expressiveeyes, comply with, and sacrifice his love tofilial duty.” Henry appeared hurt at this sugges¬tion, but in a few moments, recovering himself tohis usual placiditj, he strove to give confidenceand composure to the breast of Jane, and at thistime succeeded. At a late hour the companyseparated, to the extreme relief of Jane, whowas anxious to retire to the solitude of the cham¬ber, and commune with her own thoughts OfHenry’s conduct she knew not what to think,She loved him, sincerely loved him, and shefeared to lose him by ill-timed expressions ofdissatisfactions or doubt; yet she knew herself tobe in a situation that, ere long, must proclaim,to the gaze of every beholder, her loss of hon¬our. This precluded delay added poignancy toher woes. At this moment she was miserable.Then she reflected on the oaths and protestationsof Henry; his kind assuiances at their last in¬terview, on which he called on every holy powerto witness his faith to her his chosen wife; anddefied the malice of the whole world to partthem. Thus in fluctuating hope and fear, thehapless girl passed away her melancholy hourstill the first dawn of the grey-eyed morn was an¬nounced by the shrill clarion of Chanticleer.Recollection flushed cn her mind ; she chidedherself for giving way to such sorrowful retro¬spections ; anil, fearing of being discovered byany of the family, not yet undressed, she hastilydivested herself of her apparel, and retired tobed. Worn out by the fatigue of the precedingday, and the sorrows of her heart, she soon fellinto a heavy slumber.— But sleep did not calmthe passions of her mind ; her dreams were hor¬rific : one time she was hurled from a precipice,then dashed into the foaming and tempestuousocean, and sinking amidst the billows, callingin vain to Henry for aid. She awoke, over¬whelmed with terror. It was not yet time torise.— Again she slept; again the ocean present¬ed itself to her view; a swift saiiing vessel ap¬peared almost to fly before the wind: Henrywas on the deck, his bosom sti earning with gore,from a self-inflicted wound, as appeared by apoinard that he grasped in his right hand.Borne by an invincible guide, she flew towardshim. A sudden storm arose ; the ship was fu¬riously combated by the elements. Henry gavea deep groan and expired in her arms. Thevessel now appeared to sink rapidly, and thehorrors of death were around her. Just at themoment of this painful visionary trouble, her,15giiter Annette entered the chamber, and awokethe sleeping sufferer. But she was too muchindisposed to rise and readily acquiesced in hersister’s desire of remaining in her bed.Jane did not rise till the evening. Norwould she then have left her chamber, only tokeep her appointment with Henry, whom shehad promised to meet at the usual spot in thewell known grove. In vain Annette persuadedher not to leave the house: Jane persistedthat a walk would be ol service to her ; and ob¬tained her sister’s promise, net to mention herabsence to her parents; and then hastened tothe place where her perfidious lover was waiting.Henry, with seeming affection, embraced her ;and then imparted his intention of leaving Rose¬wood, and repairing to the metropolis the nexeday. Jane, in tremelous accents, inquired themotive which led to such a sudden departure. Heinformed her, that he had that day received aletter from the metropolis, in which his friendhad stated, that there was a post under govern¬ment, which produced' a considerable annuity,that lie had no doubt, if he was present, of pro-curing for him. “ 1'hen,” continued Henry, “if1 succeed, 1 shall no longer be dependant onmy father; and our marriage will take placeimmediately on my return, which I promise,my dear Jane, shall be within the next threeweeks.” Jane was affected at the thoughts ofparting; yet the solemn promises of her lovereased her mind of an oppressive burthen, and16her tears were mingled with emotions of joy andgrief. It was long ere either of them had for¬titude to pronounce the small, but much impor¬tant word, Adieu. Henry accompanied Janeto the end of the grove, and then left her—forever !He persued his journey to London, where,he informed his father and sister, he was goingto receive some money, which a gentleman, towhom he had lent it about a twelvemonth before,had remitted to his banker. When the timefor Henry’s return, the youth came not. Jane’sanguish was insupportable: her family wasalarmed at her squalled looks. She was ill; shepleaded indisposition; and to her own familyshe expressed her fears that Henry was false tohis vows. Yet they knew not the extent of hermisery; she would sooner have died than rela¬ted her loss of innocence. How could she over¬whelm her aged parents with anguish, and bringa stain on a family whose virtue had been theirboast? A letter came by the post to Mr Per-cival; its contents were like a thunder-clap tothe old gentleman. Henry had embarked forthe West Indies. The youth intreated his par¬don. but assured him, that circumstances of anunpleasant nature, which he could not then ex¬plain, had obliged him to leave England, and re¬tire to his relation abroad.What Henry could not explain, was soon ex¬plained for him. Lucy too abruptly communi¬cated the idtelligence at the farm, and in the17presence of the unfortunate Jane.—Violent hys¬terics seized on her fragile form ; an abortionsucceeded. In frantic accents she confessed herguilt. What were the feelings of Arnold andhis aged Margaretta!—They tore their hairwept with bitterness of soul. 15uL they did notupbraid their hapless daughter; they would notadd to her misery. Great were their sufferings.They tried to calm her mind, and spoke thelanguage of peace and comfort to the mournerTheir efforts succeeded, and she fell into a calmslumber. At a late hour the family retired totheir slumbers, all but Rosetta, who watchedby the bed side of her beloved Jane. She stillslept in appatent composure. About four in themorning, Rosetta reclined her head on the backof the chair, and fell asleep. In less than anhour, she was awoke by hearing some footstepshastily descencing the stairs. She rose and ap¬proached her bed to look if her Jane’s afflic¬tions were still banished by the influence of Mor¬pheus. She was gone! Rosetta looked around:it was evident that she had rose and dressedherself. Terrified beyond description, Rosettahastened to the chamber where her husbandslept and entreated him to join with her in thepursuit of Jane. Lubin instantly thought of thegrove where he had oft seen her walking withthe faithless Henry.—Thither they ran as fastas their fears would allow, and found the objectof their search stretchhd on the cold grond, andmaking a piteous moan. Lubin raised and sup-18ported her in his arms: while he joined withRosetta in calling her by the most endearing ap¬pellations. As they led her home they endea¬voured to inspire her with foititude and resigna¬tion. She answered only with heavy sighs, andsome vague sentences. A1;s! their gentle care*wore vain, Reason hid fled her brain ; a melan¬choly despondence reigned there; and an obli¬vion of every transaction, but the source of herown irremediable woes. In vain were the physi¬cians, and all their medical attendants, summon-ed ; human skill was vain. Jane was doomed tolinger out her existence a hapless maniac. Shewas perfectly harmless and tractable ; and forwhole days would wander in those places whereshe had been used to walk with Henry. Shewould sing the most plaintive airs, and conversew itli those who addressed her about him. Fromthe villagers she gained the appellation of CrazyJane; and this title soon became familiar to herown ears. Regularly at the close of the daj, shereturned to her father’s house; seldom she no¬ticed any one in it, but retired to a small cham¬ber, that was entirely appropriated to her ownuse. Jane continued in this state above twoyears, without any alteration in he mind, but avery alarming one in her person. She was nowreduced to a mere shadow of her former self;her eyes no longer sparkled with b/illiancy; herlips were robbed of the coral hue, and her cheeksassumed an ashly pale.One morning instead of lying till a late hour,19which for some months back had been her cus-Itom and then repairing with her solitary mealto the grove, she joined the family at their break¬fast table, and conversed on several subjects moterationally than she had done since the first dayof her derangement. As soon as their repastwas ended, Jane arose, and affectionafely em¬braced every individual of the family, particu¬larly her mother and Rosetta. They were ex¬tremely affected, and prayed with fervour thatheaven would be pleased to restore the sense ofthe fair maniac. They then separated to per¬form their several domestic duties, and Jane has¬tened to her usual haunts, taking with her alittle basket of provisions, which her tender mo-Ither always prepared ready to put in her hand;or poor Jane would have thought not of foodtill assailed by the calls of hunger. Whenevening arrived and above an hour was spent inmomentry expectation of her return, the fami¬ly became greatly alarmed, and Lubiu and hismother went forth to seek her. They were notmany paces from the house, when they perceiveda group of villagers approaching towards thembearing a corpse. Alas ! it was Jane's 1 Theyhad found her as they were passing through thegrove on their return from their work, lying onthe turf inanimate. She was cold, and life hadleft her fair form for ever. Her right hand re¬claimed on her breast; and in her left was claspeda locket, which contained a fragment of Henry’s,20hair, wliicli he had given her on the day of Ro¬setta’s nuptials.What a sight for a parent! Margaretta feltit in its full force, and fainted by the side of herdeparted daughter. It was some minutes erethey could recover her from her swoon ; andLubin with difficulty led her back to the house,while the villagers continued to bear their hap¬less burden after the afflicted parent. Thegrief of the Arnold family could only be equal¬ed by that of the aged Percival. He had wroteseveral letters to India, but received no answer,either from Henry or his relation. The sor¬rows of Jane greatly affected him : he despisedthe cruelty and injustice of Henry; and hadfrequently declared to the good farmer, that,had his son requested his consent to marry thebeauteous Jane, he would had given it with un¬feigned transpoit.On the fourth day after 1 er decease, her fu¬neral took place in the village church-yard. Thecoffin was born by young maidens in whiterobes; and on tbeir heads they wore chaplets ofcypress. Mr Percival and the weeping relationsof Jane closed the mournful procession. Therewas not a dry eye among the villagers. Thedeep-tolling knell was accompanied by sighs andheart-felt groans; while the aged parents, as thefuneral passed their doors, bid their sons bewareof the fatal crime of seducing credulous inno¬cence ; and their daughters avoid the fate of the21broken hearted Jane, by scorning the villian whowould dare to make them a dishonourable offer—The remains of Crazy Jane were depositedunder the shade of an aged yew: and on a roughhewn stone was placed the following artlessepitaph :—Traveller, stop ! whoe’er thou art,Shed a tear ere thou depart;But here releas’d from care and pain.Lies love’s sad victim, Crazv Jake.A few short weeks from the death of the un¬fortunate Jane, saw the remains ol Mr Percivaland the woe-worn Margaretta, committed totheir native dust. The former, by his will, haddisinherited his son. He bequeathed consider¬able legacies to farmer -trnold and his two surviving daughters, Lucy and Annetta. The restof his property, which was very considerable, heawarded to Rosetta and her affectionate husband.Mr Percival had not long departed from thistransitory world, w'hen, to the great surprise ofthe inhabitants, Henry arrived at Rosewood;pale and emaciated, a living skeleton. The firstintimatian he received ol the death of Jane andhis father, was from the mistress of the Inn;and the intelligence seemed greatly to affecthim. With a palpitating heart lie repaired tothe farm; and prostrating himself at Mr Ar¬nold’s feet, besought him to pardon the seducer22and murderer of his daughter, who was impa¬tient to join her in th it silent grave. The angerand indignation, that the old gentleman felt atthe first appearance of Percival, soon gave wayto pity. After their first emotion had subsided,and they were tranquil enough to converse, MrArnold learnt from Henry, that for a length oftime after he arrived in India, he had formedthe resolution of becoming an alien to his familyhis affairs were so prosperous as to render ftnext to an impossibility that he should ever wantany pecuniary assistance from them ; and forthe purpose of estranging himself, lie never an¬swered any ol the letters he received from Eng¬land—indeed the reproaches with which thosefrom his father and Rosetta wire filled, andwhich lie did not no how to defend, made himadhere more and more strictly to the plan liehad marked out for himself. But at length re¬morse seized on his soul. The image of Janehaunted his nightly dreams and his wakingthoughts: his behaviour to her, and his agedfather, now appeared to him in the most cul¬pable light; he became a sincere penitent, andresolved to retuin to England, and make whatreparation was in ids power to those lie had sodeeply wronged. About a fortnight after he hadembarked on his homeward passage, as he wasstanding one evening on the deck, absorbed inhis own reflections, a female figure glided by himand pronounced his name in an awe-inspiringvoice; he started and looked around ; the figure23gtood at some distance from him. It was Jane !Again she repeated his name, and, with a heavysigh, vanished from his view ! Ihe hour thatthis event occured was explained ; and Mr Arnoldhad every reason to suppose that it was the onein which the hapless fair one died, as it was onthe same day in which she was found a lifelesscorpse in her much loved grove.The loss of his father’s fortune did not in theleast affect the youth ; nor would he accept thatpart of it which Mr Arnold, and the husband ofRosetta, generously offered him. No, moneyhe valued not. The death of Jane, through hiscruelty, lay heavy at his heart; also his father’sdying in displeasure with him. He frequentlydeclared that he had brought with him moremoney from India than would last the remainingterm of his life. He hired a small cottage inthe vicinity of Rosewood, where he resided in amanner not far removed from the life of a her¬mit. Every night at the drear hour of twelve,he wandered round a moss-grown tower, wherethe ghost of Cr^zy Jane was said to appear, andtell to the moon a tale of woe. After pursuingthis course of life for several months, Henry im¬bibed a dane’erous melancholy, that promptedhim to commit the dreadful act of suicide. Onthe grave of his Jane, the youth shed his heart’sblood, aud rushed unbidden into the presence ofhis Maker. The Cotoner and his Jury declaredhim a maniac ; and he was buried beneath the24sane yew that hung over the remains of the fairbut ill-fated heroine of our tale !Behold the melancholy end of this once inno¬cent happy pair! Who could have anticipateda sorrowful co iclusion to the joyous and affec¬tionate attachment formed at Rosewood ? None.But this may be principally ascribed to the am¬bitious views and depraved character of Henry;and partly to the fond credulity of the fair butunfortunate Jane. It is sincerely hoped, thatall into whose hands this very interesting andaffecting pamphlet may come, especially theyouthful generation of botli sexes, may takewarning from the untimely and miserable fateof this unhappy couple, being now published w iththat view, and avoid the dangerous rocks on whichthey split; for assuredly the same causes will na¬turally lead to the same bad, or even worse ends,it may very reasonably be supposed.