$TO RIESOFPrince Lupin,YEtliOW DWARF,AND TUBPH1NTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.KUIMXED iOK .THE 1^00K8E^rEIf8•~i>yin?m 3*VMD XHBx.Krrw/#.| V» U\> » «»OEMXOKXKirtAND THEWHITE CAT,srfj gi;1 o) '^Juh eiu wona o) auo'iiaal\ certain king had three sons, all hand-ome, brave, and fine young gentlemen;imt being suspicious that they had formed adesign to deprive him of his crown, hebought of a method to divert them from: heir intended purpose. Having called them'ime day into his closet/ he spoke to them ashollows:—“My sons, I am now Come to aFreat age, and cannot apply myself to publicilffaiis with so much care as formerly; there-tore I intend to resign my crown to one ofcou : but, as is it hut right to require somebroofof your abilities, in order to determineit’hich is the most worthy of so \aluable ai resent, I propose and promise, that he whothall bring me the most beautiful little dogshall immediately take possession of myThe three princes readily agreed to thijproposal, each concluding himself mostlikely tosucceed in fujfilling this extraordin¬ary request. Alter taking leave of the kingthey set out, with orders to return that daytwelvemonth with dogs. Each took a dif¬ferent road, without any attendants; hutwe shall leave the two eldest at present, andconfine our story to the youngest.This accomplished prince, as he was moredesirous to show his duty to his father than "to become a king, was more fortunate in hisundertaking than any of his brothers. One siinight, kaving travelled till it was very late, rand being overtaken by a storm in a large 'fortst, he discovered a light at a distance 1ami pursuing His journey with all speed, he iarrived at a most stately castle, the gates ol hwhich were of massy gold, and the walls o 1fine china, whereon were painted the histor -ies of all the fairies that ever appeared orearth, /ft the door hung a chain of did. frmonds, with a deer’s foot at the end ; onpulling which, the prince heard a bell of s« “fpleasing a sound, that he Concluded it to b» lfDmade of gold or silver. Immediately th« 11door open’d, and twelve hands, each holdinj 1a flambeau, gently conducted him to a halof motherof-pearl, and from thence througl^na vast number of chambeis, all richly cover 4ed with paintings and jewels. The beaut <i in&these ornaments was greatly heightenedy a number of lights, that hung from theselling in glass sconces of exquisite work¬manship.After having passed through sixty apart-nents, a fine easy chair moved towards him»f its own accord; the fire lighted itself, andihe hands pulled off his clothes, which had»een drench’d in the storm, and dressed himn others so extraordinarily fine and rich,ihat it dazzled his sight to behold himself.'rVhile the prince was in the utmost aston-shment at thisuncommon adventure, he sawmultitude of cats enter the room, and seathemselves on the bench. One held amusic-book, and some played on instrumentsijrhile others beat time. In the midst ofris concert, a small figure came forward inmourning veil, led by two cats in blackaioaks, and followed by a long train at cats,jjiome with rats, and others with mice inheir mouths. The young prince was so sur-rised, that he had not power to move; whenhe little figure lifting up its veil, discoveredhe prettiest white cat that ever was seen.Piince,” said she, “be not afraid, butive me your company with cheerfulness,t shall be the ambition of me and all mymewing attendants to give you pleasure.**On a signal given, supper was brought; but the prince at first declined eating»56till the White Cat, guessing the reason, as¬sured him that there were no rats nor mice |iin any thing that was set before him. As ithe prince was admiring this beautiful cat, ~lie observed a smill picture hanging upon .her foot. He asked her to show it him; tand how ,great was his surprise to see a> sotharming young man very much resemhlingti thimself yet, observing the White Cat toi lsigh, he was afraid at that time to satisfy!his curiosity concerning it, and so endeavoroured to divert her by entertaining coriveiv ftsation, in which lie found her toheextremelvrsensible, and acquainted with every thing -that - passed in the worldti He slept every*'inight in an apartment hung with tapestry (made ofithe wiiigs of butterflies, on a bed »of the most delicious flowers, and every day 1was 8^>ent in the most delightful amusement, ftIn this manner almost a year slipped away 1insensibly ; and the prince entirely forgotMUphis native home and the little dog he wrs tocarry to his father. But the White Catjinknew when he was to return; and one dayas they were walking together in a grovel i},tnear the palace, ‘Do you remember, prince/ 1t|,said she, “the promise you made to your trfather? Your brothers have already pro-ccured some curious little dogs, and there re- tfmain but three days for you to find one:!^mote beautiful, of lose a kingdom/* These:•1'i.jl words awoke the piince from his dream of(pleasure* “ Wlas !" cried he, “ what have, I been doing ? My honour is lost for ever.” “ Do not afflict yourself,” said the WhiteC»t? “I will find a horse that will carryiyou home in less than twelve hours. Aad1a? tor the little dog, take thss acorn, in whichthere is one .• put it to your ear, and youJwjH hear it bark.v The prince did so, and,transported wzth pleasure, thanked her athousand times. Bidding her farewell, he(mounted the wooden hqrse, and arrived ati his father's palace just as his brothers enter-?ej the courtyard. He ran to embrace themland all thre6 went together to the king.—THie two eldest presented their dogs, which'iwere so equally beautiful, that itwasimpos-isible to know in whose fa\our to determine.iiBut thoi.‘youngest soon pnt an end to the(Idebate; for, pulling the acorn out of hisifpocketand opening it, they saw a little dog(lying on cotton, so small that it might gopith rough a ring; it was of a mixture ofijjpolours, and its ears reached the ground,fl he king was convinced that nothing could!be met with so beautiful; but, being unwil-ing yet to part with his crown, he told hischildren, that he must make a further trial)f their love &, diligence before he perform¬ed his promise : they must take another8year to find out a web of cloth fine enoughto go through the eye of a small needle.This request, though unjust they thoughtit best to comply with : and our princemounted his wooden horse, & returned withspeed to his White Cat, on which alone hedepended for assistance. He found her laidon a quilt of white satin. As soon as shesaw him, she opressed the utmost joy jwhile the prince caressed her in the mosttender manner, and told her the successof his journey. The White Cat redoubledher efforts to render the prince more happy,if possible, than he hail been before. Hewished for nothing but the hands whichbrought it to him; and the second year rol¬led away so fast, that the prince would againhave forgot his orders, had njt the WhiteCat reminded him thereof: “ But makeyourself perfectly easy concerning the web,”said she, “ for l have one wonderfully fine.Take this walnut; be sure to crack it inrour father’s presence, and you will find init such a web as you want.”The prince thanked her in the mostgrateful manner; and was presently carriedby the wooden hoise to his father’s palace,where his brothers had got befoie him.They pulled out their webs, which were ex¬ceeding fine, and would go through the eyeof a large needle, but could not be made toP'!i;ItHi,t»I,•itIt,I'.liicli.dlyJok!)><JtJiit,0i|);Itc9pass through the eje of a small one. Theiking was going to avail himself of thispretext, when the youngest prince untx-pectetlly entered, and produced a walnut,(which he cracked. Finding only a kernelof wax, the king and all present ridiculedhim far thinking to find a web of cloth in amut. However, he broke the kernel, andsaw in it a corn of wheat, and in that agrain of millet-seed : he then opened theimillet-seed, and, to the utter astonishmentland confusion of the beholders, drew outa web of cloth four hundred yards long.IThe needle was brought, and the web wasput through the eye of it five or six times!with the greatest ease.The king fetched a deep sigh, and turn¬ing towards his sons, *■ My children,” saidhe, “ I am still desirous of putting you toa new trial: go for another year; and he1 that brings me the most beautiful damsel,! shall marry her and be crowned king ; and1 swear most solemnly, that I will requiremo other proof of your filial affection andildiscretion.” Our sweet prince heard thisityrannic command without a murmur ; and,remounting his courser, flew to his dearWhite Cat; which, knowing the momenthof his return, was prepared to receive him infthe golden gallery. “ Prince,” said she‘“the king I find, has refused you the crown,10lhowever, I hope you will take care to meritit, and I will provide you with a beautifuldamsel who will gain the prize.”The prince grew more and more fond ofher; and in her abode enjoyed every mag¬nificent entertainment that fancy couldinvent—When this last year was near ex¬pired, the White Cat thus addressed him :44 If you are sensible of the favours 1 haveconferred upon you, now is the time to makeme amends. Do not hesitate, but cut offmy head and tail, and throw them into thefire.” fears started from the prince’s eyesat this repuest, and he was going severaltimes to refuse ; but the White Cat insistedupon it so earnestly, that at last, with atrembling hand, he chopped off her headand tail, and threw them according to orderinto the fire; in an instant the body of theWhite Cat was changed into the most beau¬tiful lady that ever was seen, and imme¬diately a great number of gentlemert andladies, hoi ding their cats’ skihs Over theirshoulders, came and fell jiHostrate at her feetcrying, “ Long live our gracious qlieetv!How great is Our joy fb see her once morein her natural shape!” I he prince wasglad beyond description to behold so charm¬ing a creature, but could not help express¬ing an earnest desire to know the cause of feethis surprising transformation. >* Restrain pjliei■i'llftif iHyouc curiosity,’- says the lovely queen*“ till we arrive at your father’s court,; whereI am now ready to accompany you, andwhere I will relate my unheardrof mis.fortunes. Come, see, the carriage waits.’’So saying, she gave her hand to the prince,ho led her intoa chariot, the inside of whichwas fine velvet, set with brilliants, the out*side gold; and the horses’ harness was madeiof emeralds. .j.jtAway they flew, and were presently athe gates o( the king’s palace, where thewo eldest princes were already arrived withitheir two princesses, in fine calashes of blue,rjjembossed with gold. The courtiers crowded:o present these three illustrious couples tohe king. The two eldest princes with theirTadies advanced first, and were received veryngraciously by the monarch, who declared(they had brought him two such beauties,hat he knew not to which he should givehe preference ; but the moment the young-st approached with his queen, both tull ofrace and dignity, the king cried out inctacy, “ This is the incomparable beauty,,’hose worth and excellence claims and de-erves my crown 1”—“ I came not to robou of your crown,” answered the discreet[queen; “ I was born heiress to six kingdoms,jive me leave to present one of them to yound one to each of your sons; for which laask no other r^totn than this amiable princein marriage.**The king- and all the court were struckwith joy at this declaration ; and the nup¬tials were celebrated the same day with greatmagnificence. Never were a pair morehappy ; and the young prince, to the lastmoment of his lile, blessed the accident thatled him to the abode of the sweet WhiteCat. e:: anTHE YELLOW DWARF.nidaia norH f i*;/ f Vfd b hi (ismThere was once a queen, who, though shehad born many children, had but one daugh¬ter left alive, of whom she was lond to anexcess, humouring and indulging her in allher ways and wishes. This princess wasexceedingly beautiful, so that she was calledAll-Fair, and had twenty kings courting| her at one time. Her mother, being advan¬ced in years, would fain have had her mar¬ried and settled before she died, but nosentreaties could prevail; whereupon she de¬termined to go to the Desert Fairy to askuadvice concerning her stuborn daughter.Now, this fairy being guarded by twofierce lions, the queen made a cake of millet,usugarcanday, and crocodiles’ eggs, in orderi to appease their fury and pass by them; and(having thus provided herself, she set out.|jffter traveling some time, she found her-)self weary, and, lying down under a tiee,i fell asleep. When she awoke, she heard theUions which guarded the fairy roaring, uponiswhich, looking for her cake, she found it•(was gone, This threw her into the utmostliagony, not knowing how to save herselfufrom being devoured by them ; when, hear¬ing somebody cry, “Hem! hem!” shelifted up her eyes, and beheld a liftfe yellowman on a tree, half a yard high, pickingand eating oranges.“Ah! queen," said the Yellow Dwarf,(for so he was called on account of his com¬plexion, and the orange-tree he lived in),“how will you escape the lions? There isbut one way: I know what business broughtyou here! promise me your daughter inmarriage, and I will save you.” {The queenthought she could not but look upon sofrightful a figure with horror,yet was forcedto consent; whereupon she instantly foundherself in her own palace, and all thathad passed seemed only as a dream; never¬theless, she was so thoroughly persuadedof the reality of it, that she became melan-babiiuig gni‘>d yiud airif ,wo>5The young princess being unable to learnthe cause of-her dejection, resolved to goand inquire of the Derert Fairy ; and, ac-eordingly, having prepared a cake for thelions, she also set off for her abode. )) Ithappened that AII-Fair took exactly thesame rout her mother had done before her;and coming to the fatal tree, which wasloaded with oranges, site had a mind to picksome! therefore, setting down her basketwherein she carried the cake, she plentifullyIriiiriiif-IftHrfII,r'!iV,Vr!1.PI!!pr::h‘is{indulged herself. The lions now began toroar, when /111-Fair, looking for her cake,'was thrown tto the utmost trouble on find¬fling it gone. As she was lamenting herIdeplorable situation, the Yellow Dwarf pre¬sented himselr to her with these words:—“ Lovely princess, dry up your tears, andihear what I am going to say : You needmot proceed to the Desert Fairy to know thetreason of your mother’s indisposition, she isiungenerous enough to repent of havingpromised you, her adorable daughter, to mein marriage.”—“ How 1“ interrupted theprincess my mother promised me to youin marriage ! you 1 such a fright5 as you !“<—“ N*ay, none of your scoffs/' returned the'Yellow Dwarf, “ I wish you not to stir uptoy anger : if you will promise to marry me*,I will be the tender* st and most loving hus-f band in the world—if not, save yourself{from the lions if you can.“ In short, thefi princess was forced to give her word that■ bhe would have him, but with such 'agonylof mind, that tfhe /ell into a swooh ^ andttwhen she recovered, ahe found herself inwher owh bed< finely adorned wiili ribbons,nd a ring of a single red hair* so fastenedround her finger that it could not be got off.This adventure had the same effect uponAll-Fair as the former had upon her mother,he grew melancholy, which was rerharked16and wondered at by the whole court. Thebest way to divert her, they thought, wouldbe to urge her to marry; which the prin¬cess, who was now become less obstinaie onthat point than formerly, consented to ; andthinking that such a pigmy as the YellowDwarf would not dare to contend with sogallant a person as the King of the GoldenMines; she fixed upon this king for herhusband, who was exceedingly rich andpowerful, and loved her to distraction. Themost superb preparations were made forthe nuptials’ and the happy day was fixed;when, as they were proceeding to the cere¬mony, they saw moving towards thembox, whereon sat an old woman remarkablefor her ugliness.—“ Hold queen and prin¬cess,” cried she, knitting her brows, “re¬member the promises you both made to myfriend the Yellow Dwarf. I am the DesertFairy, and if All-Fair does not marry him,,I swear by my coif, I will burn my crutch.The queen and princess were struck motion¬less by this unexpected greeting of theFairy; but the Prince of the Golden Mines:was exceeding worth ; and, holding hisisword to her throat, “ Fly wretch !” saidhe, or thy malice shall cost thee thy life.No sooner had he uttered these words, thanthe top of the box flying off, out came theYellow Dwarf, mounted upon a largeI:oWei17Spanish cat, who, placing himself betweenhe king and thefaiiy, uttered these words:—“ Hash youth, thy rage should be levelledit me, not at the Desert Fairy ; I am thyival, and claim her by promise, and a singlenair round her finger.This so enraged the king, that he criedut, comtemptible creature! wert thou wor-hy of my notice, l would sacrifice thee for^resumption.” VVhereon the Yellow Dwarfdapping spurs to his cat, and drawing aarge cutlass, defied the king to combat; and:|jo they went into the court-yar . The sunhen immediately turned red as blood, andt became dark: thunder and lightningollowod, by the flashes whereof were per-eived two giants vomiting fire on each sidethe Yellow Dwarf.The king behaved with such undauntedourage as to give the Dwarf great per-ailexity; but was dismayed, when he sawhe Desert Fairy, mounted on a wingedgriffin, with her head covered with snakes,Itrihe the princess so hard with a lance,hat she fell into the queen’s arms all overlimh blood. He left the combat to go toHer relief; but the dwarf was too quick forMm, and, flying on his Spanish cat to thet'bialcony where she was, he took her fromSier mother’s arm’s, leaped with her upon18the top of the palace, atul immediately dis- kappeart^erj} : .yiiBiorit brre ^ni>!As the, kin.Lj sto >J confusetl and astonish ext iat this strange adventure, he suddenly found *a mist before his eyes, and himself lifted up tin the air by some extraordinary power: for >the Desert Fairy had fallen in love with t;him. To secure him for herself, there foie* [fshe carried him to a fi ightfu! cavern, hoping; the would there forget ^11-Fair, and triedmany artifices to complete her designs. But i,finding tins scheme ineffectual, she resolved jto carry him to a place altogether as pleasant .astthe other was terrible; and accordingly jset him by herself in a chariot drawn by [swans, I rtt passing . through the air, he had >ttie uri^paakajilt; suiprise to see his adored iprincess in a castle of polished steel, leaning; ro|her,beaid on one hand, and wiping away thetears with the other. She happened to look t.up, and had the mortification to septli^King jsitting by the fairy* who then, by her art.Tunde herself appear extremely beautiful..?Had not the king been sensible of the fairy’spower, he would certainly then have tried tcirfree himself from her. At last they earnerto a stately palace, fenced on one side by* |walls of emeralds, and on the other by aiboisterous sea. T|The king, by pretending to be in love >with the fairy, obtained liberty to walk by [p.19i himself on theishore; anJ, as he was onfcday invoking the.puwers of the sea, he hearda voice, and presently after was surprisedwith the appearance of a Mermaid, which,coming up with a pleasant smile, spokethese words :—“O King,of the GoldenhMines, l well know ail that has passed inregard to Jon an<l the,lair princess. Don’tsuspect this to be a contrivance of the fairy'sto try you, for I am an inveterate enemy'both to her and the Yellow dwarf; therefore,jif you will have conlidence in me, I willJend you my assistance to procure the releaseot only of yourself, but of All-Fair also.”The overjoyed king promised to do whateverthe Mermaid bade him ; whereupon, settinghim upon her tail, they sailed away on aflin follthfg'se'dS emir luhljiti noy saoW S ritimynWhen they had sailed some time, “ Now,”said the Mermaid to the king, “ we drawnear the j lace where your pimcess is kepty the Yellow Dwarf. You will have manynemies to fight before you can come to heir,ake, therefore, this sword, with which youay overcome every thing, provided youever let it go out of your hand.” Theing returned her all the thanks that theWimost grateful heart could suggest; and theItMermaiu landed and took leave of him,•dpromisinghim farther assistance when ne¬cessary. icfuoo a qu bauiyioo nadJ »d20The kinof boldly advanced, and meetingwith two terrible sphinxes, laid them deadat his feet with his sword. Next he attackedsix dragons that opposed him, and despatch* -ed them also. Then he met with four and ,twenty nymphs, with garlands of flowers, ,at sight of which he stopped, being loath to j,destroy so much beauty ; when he heard a tvoice say, ‘‘Strike! stiike! or you willlose your princess for ever!” upon which he ...threw himself into the midst of them, andsoon dispersed them. He now came in view ■of /411-hair, and, hastening to her, ex- fi laimed, “ O my princess, behold your j.,faithful lover!” But she, drawing back, „replied, “faithful lover! Did I not see ,vou passing through the air with a beautiful ,nymph ? Were you faithful then ?” “ Yes,” freplied the king, “ I was. That was thedetested Desert Fairy, who was carrying j.me to a place where I must have languishedout all my days, had it not been for a kind |Mermaid, by whose assistance it is that l ,am now come to release you.” So saying, .he cast himself' at her feet; but, catching ,hold of he ^gown, unfortunately let go themagie sword ; which the Yellow Dwarf nosooner discovered, than leaping from behinda shrub where he hail been concealed, he ranand seized it. By two cabalistioal wordshe then conjured up a couple of giants, whothedwarf.king*'myin2*irons. “Now/fate is inssaid themy own'M hands ; however, if he will consent to mymarriage he shall have his life and liberty/*“ No,” said the king, “ I scorn thy favouron such termswhich so provoked thedwarf, that he instantly stabbed him to theheart. The disconsolate princess, aggrava¬ted to the last degree at such barbarity, thusvented her grief:—“ Thou hideous creature*i isince entreaties could not avail thee, perhapsifthou now reliest upon force; but thou shaltbe disappointed, and thy brutal soul shallknow perpetual mortification fiom the mo*iment I tell thee I die fur the love I have forIthe King of the Golden Mines!” And soisaying, she sunk down upon his body, and* expired without a sigh.Thus ended the fate of these two faithful■lovers, which the Mermaid very much tw-jgretted ; but, all her powei lying in thesword, she could only change them into twoipahritrees ; which, preserving a constantimutual affection for each ether, caresS andunite their branches together.t dmwTHE THREE WISHES.yiT! ol Jnyeuoo iljw ysi ti .rjvywo-* ; tkruAThkre was once a man, not very rich, whohad a very pretty woman to his wife. Onewinter's evening, as they sat by the fire,they talked of the happiness 0* their neigh¬bours, who were richer than they. Said thewife, “ If it were in my power to have whatI wish, l should soon he happier than all ofthem." “.So should I too,” said the hus¬band ; “ I wish we had fairies now, andthat one of them was kind enough to grantme what. I should ask,” At that instantthey saw.a very beautiful lady in their roomwho said tp them, “ 1 am a fairy ; and Ipromise to grant you the three first tilingsyou shall wish ; hut take care—after havingwished for three things, l will not grant onewish further.” The fairy disappeared ; and<he man and his wife were mueh perplexed.<V.:For mv own part,” said the wife, “ if itwere left to my choice I know very wellwhat I should w ish for: 1 do not wish yet,but 1 think nothing is so good as to behandsome, rich, and to he of great quality.”But the husband answered, “ With all thesethings one may be sick and fretful, and onemay die young : it would be much wiser towish for health, cheerfulness, and longlife.”*• But to what purpose is long life with po-tvItiisverty ?'* says the wtfe V wony only pro*long your misery; In troth, the fairyIshouhl have promised us a dozen of gifts,for there are at least dozen things which ]wanf.” “ fhat may be true,44 said thehusband; “but let us take time; let usconsider till inorning the three things whichare most necessary for us, and then wish.**u I‘ll think all night,“ said the wife;i “\neanwhile let us warm ourselves, for it is'ery cold. At the same time the wife tookhe tohgS to mend the fire; and se<eing thereiwas a great many coals thoroughly lighted,she said without thinking on it. “ Here's aIrnce fire; ! wish we had. a yard of bloody.podding for >Mir supper ; we could dress iteasily." She had hardly said these words,I when down came tumbling through theichimney a yard of bloody pudding. ‘Plague(fan y our greed^ kutswit'h vour Moody pud-^fdinir !’ ^ifid tho Mmsbami : ♦* here*s a finewish indeed ! Now’ we have only two left ;for my part I am so vexml, that I wish theynddingfast rd the tip of your nosed'H file. man soofi pe'rce’ived iie V ns sillier thanI vis Wife ; for, at tins second wish, upstartshe bloody pudding, and sticks so fast to theip of the poor wife's rldse, there was nomeans to tak$ it off. 'A' Wretch that I am!4(cried she; you are a wicked man foiishing the puddihg fa^t to my nose.44 ‘‘My24dear,” answered the husband, •' I vow I didnot think of it > hut what shall we do? Iam about wishing tor vast riches, and pro>pose to make a golden case to hide the pud-din^d’ “ Not at all,” answered the wife;“for I should kill myself, were I to livewith this pudding dangling at my nose: bepersuaded, we have still one wish to make;l|leave it to me, or 1 shall instantly throwmyself out of the window.” With this shran and opened the window; butthe husbamwho loved his wife, called out,f‘t Hold* mdear wife ! I give yon leave to wish tor whatyou will.*'' “ Well,” said the wife, “myrwish is that this pudding may drop off,” Atthat instant the pudding dropped off; andthe wife, who did not want wit, said to hefhusband ; “ The fairy has imposed upomtis; she was in the right; possibly we shouldhave been more unhappy with riches than weate at present* Ifelieve me, friend, let nfwish for nothing, and take things as it shujlplease God to send them : in the mean timq*let-us sup upon our pudding, since that's althat remains to us of our wishes.” '1 hejhusband thought his wife judged rightthey supped merrily, and never gave theselves furthertrouble about thethings whicthey had designed to wish for.FINIS.