Life and ProphesiesOFThat Faithful Minifter of God’s Word,I Mr. Donald Cargill ,Sometime Mimfter in the Barony Parifii of Giafgow, whofjffererJ Martyrdon) for the Lord’s Caafe, with fourothers, at the Crpfs of Edinburgh, the 27th July 1681,and had their heads put upon the ports.Being Angular for Piety, Zeal and Faithfnlntfs; hut efpe-I cially. for hi‘s foretelling future Events that were to befai< tscotlaad in general, and private families in particular.Such as his foretelling,I iPhe untimely and fearful Deaths of thofe cruel Perfectt-'j tors, whom he had excommunicated at the Torwood.Likewife an account of his Indii meht, Trial. Sentence,|| and Behaviour at the place of Execution, with hia laltWords upon the Scaffold before he fufFcred.3n this you have alfo a particular Account of the great.'I Scarcity and Dearth which tooje place; when many diedI from Want and bad Provifions, and when .the Meal wasj; as high as Two Shillings and Six pence tlje Peck.To which is add?d,A Part of the Life and untimely Death of Argyle, wh«gave his catting Vote againtt Mr. Cargill.B 1 P E T E K W 4 L K E R,Who was Himfelf a Sufferer in thofe Days.PAI.-LEY :Printed by J. Nf.ii.sov.1812.m|V- TartLife and ProphesiesOF THATFaithful Minifter of God’s Word,Mr. DONALD CARGILL.M’R. DONALD CARGILL was the elded fbnof a Angularly godly gentleman, and'heritorin the parilh of Rattery, fome miles from Dunkeld.After he had pafled his courfes of learning, at Aber¬deen, he was erfablifhed minifter in the Barony pariftiof Glafgow, before and at the unhappy reftorationof Charles lid, May 29th 1660; and was publiclymurdered, at the crofs of Edinburgh, July 27th j68r,before many witneffes, in that never to be forgotten,unhearcVof twenty-eight years of reigning tyrants, andraging tyranny of prelatical proteftants upon Prefby-terian proteftants.It is a lofs that I cannot give an account how longhe was fixed minifter in the forefaid parifh •, only it iscertain, it Was before and at the unhappy reftoration,when Hell, Rome, and all their prolelytes and fa¬vourites, had their invention upon the rack, in theirwicked crafty counfels, how to flop and^overtura our4♦ The Life and Frcphef.esgreat covenanted' wort of reformation, wherein theright-hand of the Lord, that does ever valiantly,”was and is remarkable to be fcen, in the beginningand carrying on thro’ all the periods of this Church ;not only from Paganibo and Popery, but alfb abjur¬ing of Prelacy, boih in the lafi articles of the JNa-,tional Covenant ; but more exprefiy in the feconj ar¬ticle of the Solernm League -and Covenant betwixt thethree nations, wherei^ali ranks were and are foletnn-iy and perpetually bound, in their places and itations,10 eKti-pata that old Strumpet Mother, and eldcftbeauiiful daughter of Antichrift, with which theblinded nations have bee;ri and are fadiy bewitched ;but vile, loati • me and hateful in the eye’s of all thezealous, furious godly in Scotland, ever Cnee the Lordmade light to arife.to fee her abominations. And ithath been, is, and may be «confirming and comfort¬ing to all the Lord's people that our reformation,in all the fteps thereof, hath been of and for theLord, in that he railed up and continued fuch aluccefEon of earned contendeis and faithful witnef-les through fo many ages, that none have exceededthem Cnee the Apathies Went oiY the Cage. Accord¬ingly the Popifn, Prelaticai,. and Malignant Fadlion,enemies of God and godhnefs, began their undermin¬ing work (in the year 1650) of our covenanted refor- |mation, that had flourilhed in a wounderful mannerfrom 1-638, eleven, yeats, in their public refolutions,as they were then cailed, in getting all places of pow¬er and null, filled with men of wicked and corruptprinciples and practices, to make way for the gettingtheir chief Head Charles lid upon the throne of Bri¬tain which proved effectual, and got their hellifh de-figns ccomphlhed ; which was forefeen, foretold armcornerde againll by a handful of worthy miniftersand Chriftians in thefe days called Protellors or Re-monffiators. Then, in the doth year, Cromwell, theEngliih general with his ten thouiand men were cal¬led home, .-.hp came to Scotland in the end of July,tj Mr. Donald Cargill. 5m the year 1650, to arraign the duke of Hamilton,and many debauchees with him, which were faithful¬ly witnefled again ft invading their kingdom in the1 year 1648. and hindering their king from complyingwith the parliament’s demands. In that ten years thatthey invaded our land, they defiled it with blood, to¬lerations, and other abominations, vshich were faith-' .fully witnefled againft by a few of this land. Next,there were fo many in ftate and church chofen to goto Breda, to tranficl with and bring home their king,whom: many of ail ranks were, and continue to thisI day lulling after that unhappy race. Notwithftandinghe had g^t a difpenfation from the Pope to come un¬der our Covenants, who pretended, both lie and hisv father had figned for many articles to Popifli princes,j to carry on Rome's intereft; which, as Ifbid before,1a gentclman that writes upon court affairs at that timemakes plain to the world Of the commifiloner* fentfrom Scotland, famous Mr. John Livingftone was095, contrary to his inclination; which, as he faysin his memoirs, he faw, and was fully perfuaded,t;hat there was nothing in all their tranf^ctions butthe height of treachery and perfidy, that a little tim^wjuld difeover, and was unwilling to fail the ftas, with them- But after their king was gone a fhip-board, fome out of policy preffed him to go aboardand take his leave of him ; and, as foon as he wentaboard, they fent oft’ the boat, and fo came home, ful¬ly perfuaded, the plague of God was come to Scot¬land ; neverthelefs of his difiembling, deceitful, hy¬pocritical, feigned lipped prayers in his clofet, a par¬tition wall betwixt him and the commilfioners to treatwith him; praying aloud for the advancement of thecovenanted reformation in Scotland, and for the per¬fecting the wyk of uniformity betwixt tfie three na¬tions, according to their folemn vows in the Solemn' League and Covenant.^Jly, Many alfo of the godly at home faw cloudsgathering,^and a terrible black ftoan coming on. 4.6 The Life and Pnphefiesbout th:-s tim- b'eft Mr. M‘ Vard, Cargill, atui otherstbrou,” the lands, who were of one heart and loul,feeing with one eye, thinking with one m.nd, andfpeak ng with one breath, met at Glafgow to comparenotes, and iet a day apart for prayer together, to bemore and more confirmed of their duty of giving warn¬ing of the fin afid danger of the malignant courfes -driven on in that day by fraud and force, efpeciallycalling home their head Charles lid Mr M‘Wardwas the firlt that prayed with more than oralinaay en- |largemertt and gale upon his fpirit, earneftiy beggingof the Lord, that in mercy, love and pity,-he would .Jeal, fpirit and fit a .remnant to ftand ftedf*ft, what-. ever, and from whatfoever airth the winds mightblow : and that there might be ;> fucceflion of faithfulwitneffes rfHfed np to follow the Lord fully ui life anddeath: But Charles and his infereft came not in hisway. When ended, they challenged him for it ; hefind, Let alone, if it be with you as it hath beenwith me, they would all go the fame road; and fo itwas with all of them : From whence they concluded,ihat it would be wafted time and prayers that weref^ent about, him. Mr. Cargill after that was neverheard to pray for him in public. Hisunhappy birth andreftoration-day, May 29th 1660, which was enacted l|and made an univerfal 1 haokfgiviag-day, became atrial to fome, and a land-fin and fnare to many, andoolerved to this day, by caftle-guns roaring, thougheven upon the Sabbath, at twelve of the clock :which day was Mr Cargill’s ordinary weekly fennon-day. His kirk being very throng, with tears he laid,Do you expert more or better preaching this day thanother days ? or, is it upon account of your king ? Itis like that is many of your errands ; for me, I delireto be found in the way of my duty, being our ordi¬nary day, otherwife I would not have preached a wordupon that account. “ Rejoice not, O Ifirael, as othtrwhoring from thyof your going apeople rejoice ; for (hou art gone aUodd' And this is the fir ft ftepof Mr, Donald Cargill*. jij whoring which will make way to lead and draw on too! many long and great; and whoever of the Lord’- peo-i| pie are thh day rejoicing, their joy will be “ like the: crackling o/ 1 horns under a pot it will Toon be turn¬ed to mourning ; he will be the wofulkft fight that: ever the poor church of Scotland faw Wo, wo, woto him -, his name lhall ftink while the world {lands,for treachery, tyranny, and leachery. 1 had tins ac¬count from feveral old Chriflans who were his hearersthat day j eipeciatiy that' ferious zealous Chriilian,Robert Goodwin, one of Durham’s elders, when inprifon with him,: 3dly, From His youth he was much given to fecret|prayer, yea, whole nighrs and it was oblerved byfon.e, both in families, and when in feciet, he alwaysit fat hraight Ui>ort his knees, without refting upon ai;y‘thing, with his hands lifted up, (and fome took ne'-itice he died the fame way with the bloody rope aboutijhis neck)cfoeciaily after the bloody murder of iVir. Ca¬li meron, and thefe worthies with him at Airds-Mois,/July 2zd-16^0, until the following September, thatiihe excommunicatecftheie wicked men at the 1 orvvood.He was much alone both night and day, and TpAe lit-1 tie even in company, only to fome few he fafd, Hepbad a tout to give with his trumpet that the Lord hadHput in his hand, that would found in the ears of ma¬il ny through Britain, and other places in Europe.eNone knew what he was to do that morning, except(Mr. Waiter Smith, to whom he imparted the thoughts(of his heart: When he began, his bed friends fearedthat fame wicked perfon would (hoot him : his land¬lord, in whofe houfe he had been that night, call hiscoat aud ran for it. Some ferious, foiid Chriftians,'yet alive, who were witnelfes to it, ,when he endedIthe fentences of excommunication, he faid, iihat, if1 thefe unhappy men die the ordinary death of men, Godnever fpake by him. That afternoon he preached up¬on that text, “ For the Lord will not call off for ever,but though he caufe grief, yet will he have compaffion8The Life and Prophefiesaccording to the multitude ot bis mercies ” In whichfermon he touched neither the tyranny nor defectionsin tbe laud This confirmed what he laid in his dy¬ing words, “ However it be with me at the lift, though.“ I ihould be ftraitened by God or interrupted brl** men ; yfet all is true and fhall be well : I have fol-“ lowed holinefs, I have taught truth, I have been*( moft in the main things ; not that I thought the“ things concerning our times little,” &c.4thly, The next Sabbath-day he preached at thaFallow-hill, in the weft end of Livingfton parifh, up¬on the boarder? of Clydefdale. In the Preface he faidI know I am and will be condemned by many forwhat I have done, in excommunicating thefe. wickedmen; but condemn me who will, I am approven oiGod, and am perfuaded, that what l have done onearth is ratified in heaven : For if ever I knew thmind of God, and was clear in my call to any piece ofmy regeneration-work, it was in that; and 1 fhall giveyou two fign£ whereby you may know that I am inno delufion.i If feme of thefe men do not find that 'fentencebinding upon them ere they go off the ftage, andbe obliged to confefs it from their terror, and to theafFrighfment of others. ,2. If thefe men die the ordinary death of menthen God never fent me, nor fpoke by me.1 he firft of thefe was clearly verified in the cafeof my Lord Rothes, and the fecond wa- verified alfcto the remembrance of many yet alive. I. A1know that Charles lid. was poifoned. 2. His brotherthe Duke of York, died in St. Germains in FranceI can give no account of his death 3. The Dukaof Monmouth was executed at London 4. Th«Duke of Lauderdale turned a belly-god, and diceupon the chamber-box 5. The' Duke of Rothes dfraving, under the dreadful terrors and fenfe of tba.fentence binding upon him, making his bed fnakethe aftrightment of ail that heard and faw him.of Mr. Donald Cargill.Bloody SirGeorgeM'Kenzhi died at London withall the palTages of hU body running blood. 7. Ge-neral fhoraas Dalziel of liinns died with a glafs of| wine at his mouth in perfect health : but a more par-I ticulaf account of thefe afterwards.5thiy, I gave an account in the life and .death ofI jMr. Cameron, that upon the / Sth day of July 1680,j they preached together at the Kiprig in Clydfedale \) vd.ica vt.as fvjr. /Cameron's la ft Sabbath, and wereI to meet au i pueach at Cin gmad in Stirlingfliire theI -raft Sabbath of Auguft, but Mr. Cameron's bloodand others ran like water on the 22d of July : Mr.i Cargill preached upon the 25th in the parifh of Shots,1 upon.that text, “ Know you not that there is a great! man and Prince fallen in our Ifrael ” He preachedI upon the firit day of Auguft at Craigmad, and lectur¬ed upon the 22d chapter of Jeremiah, and ran the1 parallel in fo many particulars betv/ixt Coniah and.I Charles lid. and in the end faidr if that unhappy man1 Upon the throne of Britain fhall die- the ordinary:ldeath of men, and get the honour of the Burial ofkkings, and if he llia’d have any to iucceed him law-lijfully begotten, then God never feat me", nor fpoke by■iljme. Ihe old pious praying Mr Reid, late minifterrin Lochrutton in Galloway, Mr. Shields and Georgei.Lapfly, who liveil and died at the Bcwhead, heardshim utter thefe exprcfR ns: They were all at Londontin the time that he was pcifoned, who ma ie all fearchdo know when, where, or how he was buried, buttcould never find it out, being buried clandeftint-fly; and ail know that he had none to fu-ceed him,jalthough'many laid, and fame write, Chat it all thewomen lie lay with in adultery a d fornication hadiD| conceived and brought forth, his offspring would have1=1 been as the liars in t;ie firmament, fpending his timeonly with wine and women, unconcerned abuut ei¬ther heavyn or hell, and eal’y about ad religion. Notdriving on Rome’s intereft, as they exp cted, and heengaged •when abroad with the Pogiur I'rlr.cs; j LL»10The Life and Prophejiesbrother the Duke of York being a fworn vaflal ofAntichrift, an-f longing to be at the throne, that hemight be more adtive in all miichief, made them all’confpire to give* him a dofe, and fend him off Theaforefaid friends at London faid to me, i hat it erascommonly reported, that when he found the poifonworking upon him, he fat up in his bed, having oneof his many whores in bed with him, as was his or¬dinary, and took a fnuff, and it being poifoned alfohe fell a roaring, and faid, '* O madman that I havebeen, that have murdered my beft fubjefts and ba-“ nilhed my fon the Duke of Monmouth, and comM mitted myfelf to the hand of murderers I”6thly, After that excommunication in the Torwood, the full account whereof is to be found ithe Hind let Lpofe, w%Ken by famous Mr ShieldsAfter this, there was a price of 6000 merks fet up-|on his head, for any to catch him quick or deadThe violent avowed enemies were ftillin fearch for)him before this, but more after, who, to gain thlprize', had curfl Doeg-like intelligencers every whereiying-in-wait to betray him into their hands ; not-whhftanding, he was remarkably preferred, and ma¬ny times ’narrowly efcaped their hands, until hiswork was done and his hour come, and then fudden-|ly and furprifiugly was catched, as afterwards I fhalmake plain.Befides the narrow efcapes mentioned in the relation ^iven of him in the Cloud of -Vitneffes, there)were other four as follows, 1. His horfe was fhot beneath him at Linlithgow bridge, and he very narrow¬ly efcaped their bloody hands. 2 At Loudon-hillwhich is before me to g:ve an account of. 3. At thQueensferry, June'3d i63oj when he, with HenrJHall of HaughheaU, that worthy Chriftan Gentle¬man, were upon their way from Borrowftounnefs tcthe Queensferry, thefe two fons of Belial, the curate!of .Borrowftouunefs and Carriden, walking upon th«fea-lkie, knew Mr. Cargill, and went in halte to MidIIof Mr. Donald Cargill.dleton, governor of Blacknefs, and informed him.He ordered his foldiers to come after him ; he fol¬lowed hard to the Iterry and got notice where theyI lighted, came in, and pretended great kindnefs, pref-I fing them to take a glafs of wine, until his men camei up ; then drew his fword, faying, they were his pri-I foners. Haughhead drew his fword to defend them-felves The women in the town gathered 1 one ofthem grjpt Haughhead to fave him One Thomasl -George, a waiter there, behind his back, ftruck him.on the head with the doghead of his carabin, andbroke his fkull. The woman carried him off andfeme of them fupported him to Echlen, near half amile, to the houfe of Robert Phunton, my hyother-i !n-law, who was' banifhed with Mr. Peden. The:: houfe of Binns being near fhomas Dalziel’s dwelling-:j place, (that bloody tyrant, who was general to theiS forces twenty years) and he having gof notice, caroef in great hafte and fury, threatening great ruin toI that family Tor taking in the rebel •, and carried him[back to the Ferry, and kept him all night. There isnan old Chriftain woman (yet alive) who waited up¬on him all night, whiqh was a weary night, he not1 being able to fpeak to her, palling all his brains atthis noftrjls, and died to-morrow by the way going; to Edinburgh. None can give an account how theyIdifpofed of his corpfe.V Mr, Cargill in that confulion .efcaped being fore-rfy wounded, and crept into fome fecret place in thei fouth fide of the town A very ordinary womanfound him lying bleeding, took her head-clothes andtied up the wounds in his head, and condufted himito James Phunton’s in Carlowrie ; he being a ftran-■sjjger, and knew not who were friends or foes; for'(which ,he faid, he was many times obliged to prayifor that Woman Some fay, after that there was a^upon her to the better. He lay in that barn.jht, and then was conducted to fome friend’sitoufe. Mrs. Phunton gave him fome warm milk}12The Life and Prophejiesand a chirurgeon came providentially to the houfs?,who dreffed his woundsGeneral Dalziel came and called for James Phun-ton, and took him away to Kirkliftoun : when fetdown, the curator there, (another of the Ssrpent’sbrood who inform'd him) came and accufed him be¬fore the general, for fliewing kindnefs to iuch a n--torious rebel, for which he was carried to Edin¬burgh, and caft into prifon, where he lay threemonths, and paid a thouland rrierks of fine.Mr Cargill the next Sabbath, preached at Cairn-ihill, betwixt Loudon and Tweeddale, in his woundsand blood ; for no danger nor diftrefi could flop himin going about doing good, and diftributing food tofo many fiarving fouls up and clown the !and« histime being ihorr, that fo he might finifh his courfewith joy, he preached that day upon that text. “ And!what fhall I more lay, for the 11 me would fail me totfpeak of Gideon and Jephtha At night fome faidto him, we think, Sir, praying and preaching go heftwith yon when your clanger and diftrefs is- greateft.He fiaid, it had been fo ; and he hoped that ir wouldbe fo, that the more that enemies s* 1 " J- ‘difcernably the. Lord had.helped : iordinary was) as it had been to himieif, repeatedthe following words, “ The Lord is my ftrength andfong, and has become my falvation ” That cxviiiPfalm was the hft Pfaira he fung on earth, which he .fang on the fcafFoldythly, In the beginning of November i63o, gover¬nor Middleton being fruftrated of his delr;n at theQuecnsferry, and affronted by a few women, deliver¬ing the prey out of his and his foldiers hand*, con-|lfulted with James Henderlbn in.Ferry, and laid down!)a hell deep plot and trap to catch him. by forging)and figning by different hand-, in the nam. of Bailie*Adam in Culrofs, and Robert Stark, in Milns ofrjForth, that ferious zealous folk! Chriltian, who had')thru ft that he might fall, the morecj Mr. Donald Cargill. 13his great Hi are of the tyranny of that time, and otherhoneft leading rhen in the fhire of Fife, for Hender-Ibn to come to Edinburgh, and m ike^a’l fearch for IV]r.! Cargill, to call him over to Fife to preach at the l>illof Baith : accordingly he found him in the Weft-1 Bow, in a chamber that the forefaid Robert Stark hadtaken for his children at School; two of them are! yet alive in Edinburgh, worthy of credit, who will; alTert the truth of this. Mr. Cargill was very willingto anfwer the call : fome prefent obferved th*t Hen-1 derfon was either' drunk or confufed, which madet them jealous of treachery. Hendei fon propofed, thatj he would go before, and have a boat ready at theli Ferry againtf they came: aud, that he might know{.them, defired to fee Mr Cargill’s clothes. And Mr.Skeen and Mr. Boig being in the room with him, in: the meantime he had Middleton’s Soldiers lying in' cVfguife for him at Mutton-hole, three miles from E-: dinburgh, the highway to the Ferry : there was anAie-houfe upon the fouth fide, and a park-dyke uponicthe north fide, and no eviting them Mr. Skeen,1 Archibafd Stewart, and Mrs : oor, and MarionIFIarvie took the way upon foot, Mi*. Cargill, an 1 Mr.1 Boig being to follow upon horfes. When they came1 to the place, the Soldiers griped them ; in the confu-■ fion Mrs Moor efcaped and went quickly hack, andaftopt Mr. Cargill, and Mr Boig, who fled back to E-! dinburgh again, the prifoners were brought alfo to1 Edinburgh, Mr. Skeen, and Archibald Stewart wtefei executed at the Crofs of Edinburgh, Dec, 1. 1680.and Marion Harvie, with Ifabel Alltfon, were exe¬cuted in the Grafs-market, January 26. 168 t. How¬ever, Henderfon gof the price of blood, and boughtor built a pafiage-boat, which he callea Katherine ;but many feared to crois the water in her Hender-: fon after this turned ntiferable and contemptible inI the eyes of all well thinking men, and, fome affirm,1 he died curfing, after he got that reward for treachery'and the price of blood.B*4Tbe Life and VropheftesSthly, After this rerraikable efcape, feeing nothingbut the violent flames of treachery aaul tyrannv againfthim above all others, he alone keeping up the publicftandard of,the gofpc-1 at that time, went to Ejaglandfor about three months, where the Lord bleft his la*hours in the miniftry to the eonvjftion and.edifica¬tion of many poor fculs. In this none-luch, melan¬choly, Egyptian darknefs, Mr King, Mr. Kid, andMr. Cameron, being publicly murdered ; Mr 151 ick.-adder, and Mr Dickfon, in the enemies hands, Mr.Cargill, Douglas, and Hepburn, gone of the king¬dom ; the reft of the thirty mirifters, who preached'in the fields before Bothweli-hridge, being fallen in ,deep filence and compliance with the enemy : in thistime while men flept, the enemy fowed his tares. Inthe beginning of the year 1681, the devil began anew project at Borrdwftounnefs upon a few of thofewhom he couid not drive to left-hand defections, byinjefling into them demented entbufiaftical delufions,driving them upon wild unheard-of right-hand ex¬tremes, with a fpirit of divifion and unwarrantablereparation from all that would not or durft not goup with hijn in every jot ; which began in Hollandh year before, which I have already given a trueaccount of; tpad which remains rampart in Scotlandto this day, and I fadly fear will outlive me.John Gibb, a failor in Borrowftounnels, a greatprofeflbr, (but ftill feme ferious fouls jealous of him)drew about twenty-fix women and three men withhim, the greater part of them ferious, exercifed, ten-cer, zealous, gracious foitis, who ftumbled upon thatftumbling-block laid in their sjay, of miniftefs* com¬pliance, filence and unfaithfulnefs, who’ before thebreak of Bothi^ell Bridge for about eleven years, hadpublicly preached the indilpenfible duty of all theLord’s people to follow the gofpei, and defend thefa Hie : But a little thereafter, the enemy gave an in¬demnity, or third indulgence to all minifters who for¬merly preached in the fields, to preach in hou.fes withcf Mr. Donald Cargill. 15the"cautionary-band witnefled againft in the bandersditbanded. 1'hey' fo far complied with the enemy’sdeiign and defire to have their Rendezvous of Rebel-:lion, the field conventicles (as then called) the devil’sgrand eye-fore, and great vexation to all his friends,'the foes of reformation, that they would preach none* ithout houfes,- even thofe who formerly were mofi:zealous and forward that way, whofe names migh£; be mentioned, and who would not fet their faces todoors when there were any people without Thefelamentable things, together with the cruel tyranny,ij fhedding fo much innocent precious dear blood, madea them fplit with zeal, not only to call off all that dp« not agree with them in e.very thing, but alfo to utterii firange anti-gofpel imprecations, difdaining and re-1 preaching all others as backfliders, Rating tlieir tefti-|| jnony againjl all crown dues, excife and cufioms ;!,. And ior that end would make no ufe of ale nor tobac-| co, and other foul things. , Thefe people at firft were;» commonly called Sweet Singers, from their frequent-I ly meeting together, and fiuging thefe tearful Pfalmspi over the mournful cafe of the church, Pfalm 74, 79,180, 83, 137. Thus they continued from the begin¬ning ol the year until April then all with one con-• fent, that they might be free from all thefe forefaidthings, left their houfes, warm foft beds, covered ta¬bles •, fome of them their hulbands and children weep-! ing upon them to flay with them ; fome women tak-i ing the fuckling children in their arms to defatt places, to be free of all fnares and fins, and communion with■ all others, and mourn for their own fins, the land’s ty¬ranny and defections, and there to be fafe from thei land’s utter ruin and defolations by judgments ; lomej of them going t» Pcntland hills, with a refolution to1 fit their to fee the fmoke and utter ruin of the finful□ bloody city of hdinburgh : But if they had fulfilledtheir reiolution, they wbu'd have been fadly beaten'thefe forty-eight years, being lately gone to theirJ graves, laying more weight and ftrefs upon thelc dp*16 The Life and Prophejiesties of prayer, fafcing and mourning, .than uponChriii’s fatisfaction, obedience and intercefiion, which Ialas, tliat legal formal fpirjt is the ruin and plague ofthe greater part of preachers and prayers aboundingthis day, and ruining all the churches. Thefe were*t pare of the confeffion of fome of tbefe gracious wo¬men, who came under the power of fuch deluilons vo¬luntarily before a great multitude of people, upon the3'i day of March 16II t, at the black hill of Lefmahago ;and matter of mourning to this day. immediately af*ter they came to thefe defart places, they kept a day offailing, and"confeifing of their fins, one to another:Yea, fonte of them confeft fins that the world had notheard of, and fo not called to confeis them to men.In the meantime, of their lying in this fad pickle indefart places, the man of God, bleft Cargill, came ,down from England •, a happy tryfl to many godly, zea¬lous fouls, who had a gale of zeal upon their l^irrts,and feared no danger upon the right hand, if they held*off the left. Immediately he was called to preach inDarmade nvu'rs, by fome who retained their formerzeal and fajthmlnefs That Sabbath morning, JohnGibb, David Jamie,-Walter Kerr, John Young, and-twenty-fix women, were lying in the Deer-flunk, inmidft of a great How of mofs, betwixt Clydefdale andLothian, about a mile dillant. Mr. Cargill lent twomen, vvhofe names I could mention, to defire themto come and hear fermon, and that he might converfe-with them, feverals of them being his acquaintance.John Gibb anfwered. He had left the land, and de-ferted the teftimony ; they did not want him nor no-other minifler; it was never better with them thanfince they had parted with all of them He came andflood upon a chair, and had nothing to reft upon, withhis bible betwixt his hands, as his ordinary was at alltimes when I heard him. 1 well remember, he fangthe firlt verfe of the 37 Pfahn. “ For evil 'oeis fretthou not,’5 &c. and lectured upon the 2 ill Chapter ot1 Kings from the 17th verfe, of vvfxat paffed betwixtcf Mr. Donald Cargill.'7Ahab arid Elijah, and Ahab’s outward humiliation,where he had many fententious notes: and preachedupon that text, Amos iv. i 2 “ Therefore this will Ido unto thee, O Ifrael! and becaufe I will do this untothee, prepare to meet thy God, O Ifrael!” He inliiledupon the foregoing judgments that had proveneffectual, and few had returned unto him v but thiswas a namelefs’judgment, or a non-fuch ftroke. Hewent to Dar^gavell,' in Cambufnethen parilh, uponthe fide of the muir: He fent for them to-morrowjwhen they came, they had a long reafoning in thebarn ; the fum and fubftance of it is to be found inthat letter lie fent to the women in tlm Corre&ion-houfe, which is publifhed in the Cloud of Witnefles,Two things they required ot him, before they couldjoin, and own him as their mirjfter, 1. That hewould confefs publicly his fin in leaving of the land.2. That he would engage to preach to none but them,and thofe that joined with them He anfwered.That he did not fee that to be fin in leaving the landin fuch a time, and fo fhort a time, in his circum-ftances *, and he hoped that he had been ufefut to nota few where he had been ; an‘J to preach to none butthem, was a dreadful rertriction to his miniftry ; forhis commifliun was far more e*tenfive, to go andpreach, and baptize all nations, and to preach thegolpel to every creature; and if his trumpet would' found to the ends of the earth, he would preachChriff to all. Gibb and Jamie carried pirtols uponthem, and threatened all that came to Peek th’eir wivesor other* hom them; which frighted fome Therewas a bed made for him and John Gibb : He laydown a little, but rofe in hafte, and went to the muirall night, I well remember, it was a cold eafferly wetfog. Many waiting on to have his thoughts aboutthem, ne reJuiVd upon the Sabbath evening to givehis thoughts, until he fpake with them. They toundhim in the morning wet arid cold, and very melan¬choly, warning reft all night, and great grief upon^31s3 The Life and Prophfjieshis fpirit- They laid, now. Sir, vou have fpoke withthem, and have had ydi r thoughts about them, befree with us. He f.iid, my thoughts are both bad and ,fad: This man, John Gibb, is an incarnate devil, andthere are many devils in him ; woe to him, his namewili ftink while the world hands. I blefs-God whoprefrrved me, he • might have cut my throat this*night, but I got warning of my danger. As for Da¬vid Jamie, there is a good fcholar loir, cd a minifttrfpilt : I have no hope of him. I am afraid that Wal¬ter Kerr, John Young, and others, will go a greaterlength, byt I hope the Lord will reclaim many of ;them. And now, go all home, and pray that this fnare- imay be broke j for this is one of the mold dreadfuland dangerous fnares that hath been in my time \ butthey run io fall, they will loon difcover themfelves:But I greatly fear thefe wild tares of delulions andtiivifions will fpring and .grow, and never be rootedcut in this land; which has ladly come to pafs.And thh, in preaching and conference, he was.moi't fententious and plain in difeovering and givingwarning of the Inare, fin, and danger of thefe wildextremes : neverthelefs, the indulged, filer.t, and un¬faithful, lukewarm, complying minifters ancf prolef-fors, made no diftmetion betwixt him and Gibb, cut jmade it their work by tongue and pen, to bury him |jand his faithfolntfs in the alhes cf thefe vile ex- H.tremes ; and as for any of us that travelled forty or1fifty miles, far or near to hear him preach, (and no- tdanger or enemy ccutd flop or dilcourage us) theySpread that we were away with the Gibbites, althoughi never faw John Gibb, nor was acquaint with anyof his followers at that time; for which I bids theLord that lo mercifully and remarkably preventedit, by hearing and following of blelt Cargill.Alter this, in the beginning of May, the Gibbiteswere all taken by a troop of dragoons., at the Woodhill-craigs, betwixt Lothian and i'weedale, a very delart^lace ; The enemies carried them to Edindurgh ; the .cf Mr. Donald Cargill.four, men were put in the Canongate tolbcoth, and!the twenty-fix women in the Corre£tion~houfe, andifome of them fcourged ; and, as their friends lovedand had money, they were fet free The greater partlof them came to their ri^ht mind, #fter they had tail¬ed of the bitter fruits of thefe demented clelullons,with whom I have had edifying converfation fince.The duke of York being at Edinburgh, he and all1 iother enemies rejoiced at all thefe firange things, andgave large money to thefe tour men, for which theywrote a moil blafphemous paprr to 1 ork, copies ofwhich are yet in the hands of fome.- In a little timei they were all liberate. Thefe four men, with liabelBonn, and another woman, whofe name 1 have, for¬got, went weft to the Froft Mois, betwixt Airth and(Stirling, where they burnt the Holy Bible, as theyShad exclaimed againft the Pfalms in metre, and con¬sents of the Bible as human invemions : every one ofithem had fbmewhat £0 fay, when they threw their-Bibles in the fire John Gibb faid, He did that out|of defpite againft God. 1 he night before that horridiaiftion of burning the Bible, Walter Kerr and John''•Young prayed all night .in that mofs, and a lightillfhining about them, shortly after this Walter Kerrturned mad, and was fur fome time bound in Tor-iphichen, where he was born. He came to his rightiniind again, and went to Clyde, a mle beneath La-inark, to the houfe of Robert and Elilabeth Bruce,. two old folid, ferious Chriftians, both my acquain-ttances, who got a hearty fmack of the fweetnefs of1 the gofpel, in that'good day at the Kirk of Shots,luvhere he ferved two years, and deeply mourned bothnight and day for what he had done : and wrote 38;fteps thereof. He fomttimes faid, M If there were a'Chriftian Magifirate in the land, he would go toithem and confefs all, and feek cf them to executejuftice upon him for burning the Bible.” He told his^mafter and miftrefs, that he would be taken and ba». Jaifhed, which accordingly came to pafs, in the year20The Life and Prophefies1685. And fome of our banifhed worthies (whcwere with him in America, and came home) faid tame, that be exceeded all otir banilhed, that theyknew, in prevailing with fome to fet up the worlhifof God in their fvmilies, and young ones to pray,and join in focieties for prayer and conference : Whatbecame of him firice, I know notJohn Young went into Lothian after thaPJand kepta fchocl, lived retired,, and fpoke little Gibb tDavid Jamie, Ifabel Bonn, and that, other womanwere again taken and put in the Canongate tolboothwhere they took fuch fits of feven days fading, thatheir voices were changed in their groanings and goiflerings with pain of hunger, ahd then fuch excefliveeating, that tliefe with them admired how their bel>lies could contain fo much Gibb was fo poffefb witha raging roving devil, that they could not get pitblicHworlhip performed three times a d^y, as their ordi¬nary was in each room : TVo of thefe prifoners tooktheir tour about, lying upon him with at napkin in hismouth. George Jackfon, who thereafter differed atthe Callow-lee, in December 9th 1684. at firft whenhe came there prifoner, faid, fs that his ordinary sThey faid it was, He faid, I lhall flay his roaring,and threatened Gibb, he fell>a trembling, and put hi;own napkin in his mouth, but could not refrain hisroaring; George defired them to halt in time of worClip, and with feet and hands dafhed his head againffthe wall, and beat him fo, that the reft wmre afraidthat he had killed him outright. Gibb was a big ftrongthan, for which he was called, meikle John GibbAfter this, whenever they began, he ran in behincthe door, with his napkin in hi* mouth, and there fathowling like a dog. I had ihefe account^ from theprifoners who were with him when I was carried in¬to that iron-houle Immediately after, John GibbDavid Jamie, and ihe torefaid two were fent to A*merica, where Gibb was much admired by the hea.then, for his familiar converfe with the devil bodily,of Mr. Donald Cargill* 2 2and offering facridces to him ; he died there aboutthe year 1720. David Jamie.wrote a letter to fa¬ther in Linlithgow, where he was born, defining htmnot to trouble Hirnfelf about- heaven or-heli, for allthefe things were fancies. John Smith, that ferlousib^id Chriftian, who was fourteen years banifhed there•j (who died of late in the parifh of Carfcairs) earnedthat letter, and delivered it to his father: When dtegood old man read it, he fainted: But David Jamie,being a.piece of a fcholar, got himfelf into publicclerking, and a few years ago*, was clerk in the townof New-York, in New-England : I faw his name atDoctor Nicol’s commiffion here, for a public codec-';tion for building of a church there.Thus I have given a full and true account of the*jlrife, fieps, and monftrous lengths, and frightful endiof thefe Gibbites; which may be a warning to theiprefent and following ages, to tremble and bfe afraidlof coming under the power of iuch demented, deli-irious delufions : And whereby all may fee, that theiman of God, bleft Cargill, was not miftaken in all:that he did forefee and foretel about them!! pthly, After that conference with the Gibbites ati'Darngavell, the next Sabbath day, he preaefed twoi.miles beneath Lanark, in the Under-bank.wood up¬on Clyde-fi le, upon that text, “ I have let watchmenlijppon thy walls v” where he lamented that it had beenithe great fin of the church of Scotland, in letring upiof watchmen, that had little or no experience ot re-igeneration, and had been overly of- their trials, ccn-litenting themfilves with a clatter of gifts and learn-■»• ling : And lamented alfo, that fo many watchmen.’ill were fled off the walls, and delertetl their potis.Frighted as if they were blafted or thunder-ilbn. lieftayeu for ibme time in that woodJ- In the beginning of May i68t, Gavin Wother-fponn and John Stewart, both my acquaintances, twoilerious, zealous Chriliians, and great fofferers, came. unto him : .1 he braes being lieep, and the woods ciofs,22The Life and Prophefies'he inquired if there was any appearance of rain, theyfaid they faw none. He laid, Vhefe braes look veryburnt-like, being a cold call drought. Gavin faid, w«fear, if the Lord fend not rain, there will be a fcarcityof bread. He faid, I have been thinking upon thatfince I came into this wood ; but'if I be not under aidelullon, (for this was-his ordinary way of fpeakingwhen he gave his thought of what was to .come) younedd not fear that, as long as this perfecution lads ;For the Lord has a greater refpect to his own fufFer-jjing people, than to fufi*r fuch a rough wind to blov/flin Inch an eaft wind; for, if that were, the heavy endof that Aroke would come upon his own people Foe^jne, I am to die fhortly by the hand of this bloodyenemy; but you that outlive this perfecution, as l amof the mind you will both do, (which they did both;and Jaw the fad accornplilhment) you will fee clean,nefi of teeth, and mony a black pale face, which fhaliput many a thoufand fo their graves in Scotland, withunheard-of natures of fluxes, and fevers, anjl orher-xvife ; and there fhali be great diftrefs in the land, andwrath upon this people" Mr Peden did fortfee andforefel the fame things, but in his own peculiar way ofexprefling himfelf, faying, “ /Vs long as the lads areuppn the hills, and in glens and cave-i, you will haveBannock o’er night; but, if once they were beneaththe bield of this brae, you will have clean teeth, andmom a black and pale face in Scotland.” ‘'he'fadaccomp iihment of thefe fayings will lamentably appealin thefe tollowing inffanccs.* In the year 1694, in the month of Auguft, thatcrop got fuch a ftroke in one ni. ht, by eaft rriift 01fog ftanding like mountains, (and where it remain¬ed longeft and thicbcft, the badder were the effects,'which all- our old men, that had /een froft, blalhng,and mildewing, had never feen the like, that it go«little'>jood of th* ground.In November, that winter, many were fmitten withmany fore fluxes, and. ftrange fevers, (which carriedof Mr. Donald Cargill. 231 many off the ftage) ©f fuch a nature and manner,1 that our old phyfidans had never feen the like, and; could make no help ; for all things that ufed to be pro-1 per remedies, proved deftructive : And this wa» notto be imputed to bad unwholefoir.e victual, for feve-rals, who had plenty of old vi&uals, did fepd to Glas¬gow for Irifh meal, and yet were fmitten with iluxesjnd fe>eri in a more violent and infectious nature and!manner, than the poorift in the land, whofe namesand places where they dwelt I could inftance. •1 Xhefe unhrard-of manifold judgments continuedfeven years, not always alike, but the fcafons, fumnrerand winter, fo cold and barren, and the wonted heatof the fun fo much withholden, that it was difcern-dible upon the cattle, flying fowls, and infects decay-:-in. , that feldom a fly pr gleg was to be feen: Ouriharvelt not in the ordinary months; many fliearingriin November and December, yea, fome in January and'February ; the names pf the places ! can inffruct:iVMany.contracting their deaths, and lofing ufe of theirifeet and hands, (hearing and working amongfl it inx^roft and fnow : And after all, fome of it Handing dill,and rotting on the ground,* and much of it for littlefi ufe either to man or bead:, and which had no tafte'Or colour of meal.if Meal became fo fc-arce that it was at two {hillings atlpeck, and many could not get it. ft'was not thenwith many, “ Where will we get diver But,I; *1.Where will we get meal for filver 1 have feenwhen me^l was all fold in markets, women clappingtheir hands, and tearing the clothes off their heads,:crying, “ How fl.iall we go home and fee our chil-Idten die in hunger ? they have got no meat thefe( two days, and we have nothing to give them.?.Through the long continuance of thefe manifoldjudgments, deaths and burials were fo many andcommon, that the living were wearied in the buryingof the dead, I have feen corpfes drawn in fleds, manyneither got coffin nor winding -ffeet. I was one of24The Life and Prophcfiesfour who carried the corpfe of a young woman a mileof way ; and when we came to the grave, an honeftpoor man came and faid, You muft go and help meto bury my fon, he has lien dead this two days;othervvife I will be obliged to bury him in my ownyard. We went, and there were eight of us hadtwo miles to carry the corpfe of that young man,many.neighbours looking on us, but none to helpus. I was credibly informed, that in the north, twolifters on a Monday’s morning were found carryingthe corpfe of their brother on a barrow with bear¬ing ropes, refting themfelves many times, and noneoffering to help them.I have feen fome walking about fun-fetting, andto-morrow about fhc o’clock in the fummer morning,found dead in their houfts, without making any ftirat their death, their head lying upon their hand, withas great fmell as if they had been four days dead, themice or rats, having eaten a great part of their handsand arms.Many had cleanneTs of teeth in pur cities, andwant of bread in our borders : and to fome the ft.dTof bread was fo utterly broken, (which makes com¬plete famine) that they did ea* and were neitherfatisfied nor nourifhrd : And fome of them faid tonm, that they could mind nothing but meat', and 'were nothing bettered by it; and that they w reutterly unconcerned about their fouls, whether theywent to heas en or hell.The nearer and forer thefe plagues feized, the fad-der svere their effects, that took away all natural andrelative affections, fo that huib.inds had no fympathywith their wives, nor wives with their hufttands, pa¬rents with their children, nor children with theirparents. Thefe and other things have made me todoubt if ever any of Adam’s race were in a moredeplorable condition, their bodies and fpirits morelow. than many were in thefe yearsThe crowning plague of all theie great and manifold-rhv,*: a.-of Mr. Dcriald CafgilUn~Splagues, was, many were cart down, but few humbled ;great murmuring but li‘t!e mourning, many groaningunder the-efteas of wrath, but few had fight or fenfeof the caufes of wrath in turning to rhe Lord; And asfoon as thefe judgements were removed, many werelift up, but few thankful; even thole who were aslow as any, that out-lived thefe fcarce times, did aslightly efteem bread, as if they had never knownthe worth of i" nor the want of it. The great partturned more and more gofpcl proof, and judgement-proof; and the Tuccefs of the gofpel took a ftand at'that time in many places of the land.King '•Villiam’s kindnefs is not to be forgotten,who not only relieved us from tyranny, but loadloth a fympathy for Scotland, when in diftrtfs offar.;ise, that he offered ail who would tranfport vic¬tual to Scotland, that they might do it cuftom-free,and have twenty-pence off each boll.I cannot pafs this occafion of giving rAnarks uponlome obfervable providences that followed thefe ft rang"judgements upon perfons who dwelt upon low-lyingfertile places, who laid thenffeKes out to r ufe marketswhen at fitch a height, and had little fympathy withthe poor, or thofe who lived in cold muirifh places,whp t! ought tho['e»who lived in thole- fir fine places,had a little lieaven : But foon thereafter* their iittleheavens were turned into little hells by unexpectedprovidences. Some wrote lix/een remariis upon thatterrible fire which fell o»t on the 2cl or 3d. of P'ebrua-ry «700, in the Parliament clofs in Edit.burgh ; onewas, that mnft of thofie people who dwelt there,were rich and lived fumptuoufly, and had lit tie fiym-pathy with the diftreffad cafe of the land •, that theirfine houfies, which were eleven years in building, wergin a few hours turnedrto a burnt ruinous heap: Butmore efipecially, there was a farmer in the pari(h ofWeft Calder, (in which parifh 300 of 900 exam moleperfions died,) who at that tirt.e was reckoned worth<5bcc tnerks of money and goods that had vtry littlzThe Life and Prophefiesto fpare to the poor; the -vitniuol lay fponlng in hishoufe and yard, waiting for a greater price ; and twahoneft fer.vant-lafles, ^hofe names were Nifbet, be¬ing caft out of fcrvice, (for every one could not haveit; many faisl,.they got too, ruucli wages that got meat•for work) thefe two lalTes would not fteal, and theywere afhamed to beg ; they crept in unto an emptyhoufe, and fat there,wanting meat till their fight wasalmoft gone ; and then they went about .a mile of wayto that farmer’s yard, and cut four flocks of kail tofijve their lives : He found them, and drave them be¬fore him to the Laird of Bawd,1 .who was a juflice ofpeace, that he might get them punifhed. The Lairdenquired what moved them to go by fo many yards,and go to his ?* They faid thefe in their way were inftraits themfelves, and he could beft fpare them. TheI^aird faid, Poor confcionable things, go your way,I have nothing to fay to you. One of them got ferviceand the other died iq want; it was her buria) f men¬tioned before, who was buried by us four. But, lo !in a very few years, he and bis were begging fromdoor to door, whom I have ferved at my door, and towhom I faid, “ Who fhould have pity and fympathywith you, who kept yoyr vidhial fpoiling, waiting fora greater price, and would fpare nothing of yourfulnefs to the poor, and was fo cruel to the two ftarv-ing lafies, that you took prifoners for four flocks ofkail to fave their lives, ye may read your fin in yourjudgement, if ye be not blind in the eyes of yourfoul, as ye are of one in your body, and may be awarning to all that come after you.” JMany yet a.live ha that conntry-nde, can witnefs the truth ofall thefe firange things,,By thefe foregoing relations all may (he, that thefetwo fervants of Chrift, Mr Cargill and Mr Ftdenjwere clear-fighted in what they d:d forefee and teli,which fadly and exa£Uy came to pals about 13 yearsafter bleft Cargill’s bloody death : And in feeing and■foretelling fuch flrange things they were not thereif Mr. Donald Cargill.*1lone in thefe days. The godly, and zealous, andfaithful unto the death, Mr. John Blaekadder,'vas atthe Cowhilf, in the parilh of Liv'mgftone, in the year1675 in the month of Auguft : He went into the fieldsnn the evening, being a retired place v when he camein he was very melancholy : Some fiiends enquired,what made him fo fad ? He faid, he was afraid of avery dangerous infectious iriift to go through the landthat night, that might have fad effects, of many deathsand great dearth to follow; and defired the family toclofe door and window, and keep thetn as long tlofeas they might, and take notice where the miff floodthickeft and longeft,»for there' they would fee the ef¬fects fadd-eft ; which they did : And it remained long-eft upon that town called the Craigs, being withintheir fight, and only a few families ; and within afour months thereafter, 30 corpfes went out of thatplace, and bad crops followed for three years, themeal was at naif a crown the peck: But, lo, in theyear 1678 there was fnch a crop, that the Lothianbarley was fold at four pound the boll, and the pcafeat forty pence •, and for that we got ten thoufand High--landers, five hundred Englifh Dragoons, the wholeMilitia of the kingdom, and all the handing forcescaft in upon the"Weft of Scotland at Ilothwell-bridgetAnd, as they faid, they came to deftroy, and deftroythey would; and yet there was abundance for them.3 all, and the inhabitants alfo.After Mr. Cargill left the Under-bank-wood, hepreached at Loudon-hill upon a week day, the 5th ofMay He defigned only to preach once, and baptizefome children: His text was, “ No man that hathfollowed me in the regeneration, fhall be a lofer, butgreat gainers ” In his conference lately with the Gib-bites, finding fo much of Peter’s religion among them,j that they had left all and followed him, made him toinfift in fhewing that it was not every pretended wayof following Chrift he would either regard or reward ;holding forth the great danger and ruin fo phee fo23 The Life and Prophefiessnuch, if not ail, of religion, in thefe^ex-ternal parts ofchriftianitv, si prayers. rrJlirigs, and mournings, andtonfendings for the teftimony : For fulierings of thefame, though they were duties, in themfelves,'ye^whcfcever relied upon^them would have a cauk! coal toblow at in the end Nothing is ours but fin, nor uueio us, but the wages of if. Death In the applicationof that fennon, he gave warning of the iharcs andfins of the Qibbites and their actings, and how dan¬gerous it was to call off all miniffers: And exhorted*& to pray for faithful minifters to ourfelvts, anti ne- |ver conteiit ourfelves without them; for we would ttoc |contintte long found in the faii«^ and llraight in the |jway, if we wanted faithful guides. And, for all therefpeft that thefe divided parties of difi’enters, or ra¬ther fchifmatics and feparatilis, pretend to, Mr. Car¬gill, Cameron, Shields, and R^nwick, and every oneof them to be their fucceffors, and maintaining thetefiimony which they fealed with, thtir biood : howlittle do they notice the fcritentious w'ritings and lay¬ings of thefe worthies ? And l a In perfuaded, if theywere upon the fiage’tliis day that none would fpeak,preach;-ind write more againfi: all the divided p&rtksof them, and their antifcriptural, wild, unprecedent¬ed principles and practices: and thefe that caft oft alljitinifters this day id Scotland,-if they had been livingthrough all the periods of this church, would neverhave embraced any as their minifters, qor none in o-ther churches this day through the world. It was oneof the fententious fayings of the reverend Mr. James .Kirktoun, in his pulpit in Edinburgh, infilling upon ,Scotland’s ftngutar privileges above ad other churnes .for a long time, “ That there had been minifters in .-Scotiancf that had the gift of working miracles, and .prophefying, which he could inftruct; and that he B.had heard French, Dutch, Englifh Irtih, at>t. otiiti jiminifters preach ; and yet there have been, and arc mi- lnifters in Scotland, that preach more from the heart, |and tooths heart, than any that ever he had heard.’* Rof Mr. Donald Cargill. 29And I have fometimes heard the worthy Mr. Shieldsfay, when he fpoke of his travels through the world,“ That the ill of Scotland he found everywhere, batthe good oi Scotland he found nowhere.”When the fermon was ended and children baptiz¬ed, there came up more children. Friends preft himto preach in the afternoon, contrary to his inclination ;which he did, upon that text, “ Weep hot for me,”when praying, there came a herd lad crying, ‘ Theenemies are coming upon you ’ They had out no fen*tinels that day, which was not their ordinary; theywere fo furprized, that fome that had been at Pent-land, Bothwell, and Airdfmofs, and in other greatI dangers were fo feized with fear, fome of the womenthrew their children from them, and Mr. Cargill, inths^ confulion, was running ftraight upon the enemy.Gavin Wotherfpoon and other friends griped him,and hal’d him into the mofs to which the people, fled; alfo the dragoons fired'hard upon them, but31 there were none either killed or taken tha‘ day. Theball went thro* Patrick Foreman’s hair, but his headI was fafe, his hour not being yet come, and that nei-i ther the time'nor place he was to die.About this time fome fpoke to hint, that he preacH-3 ed and prayed fhort; who faid, “ O Sir, his long1! betwixt meals, and we are in a fterving condition :j And it is good, fweet, and wholefome which ye dc-i livtr; but why do you uraigten us fo much for’fhort-II refs ?” He faid, “ ever flnce I bowed a knee in goodearneft to pray, I never durft p-ay and preach with mygifts; and where my heart is not affected, and comesnot up with my mouth, I always thought it time forme to quit if: What comes not from my heart, 1 have! little hope that it will go to the heart of others.” Thenrepeated thefe fsmtences of the li Pfalm, “'Then willI teach tranfgreffors thy way, and finners fliall be con¬certed unto thee.” When was this then ? Juft when heihad the experi.-nce of the forelaid things If all thisi%ere ftudied and praiftifed, there would bs fewerC 330 The l ife and Prophefiespreachers, and fhorter preaching , fewer and fhortep-prayers among profefl'ors ; they would nor fleep andwake people, gafping am' gollering, and few under-ftanding what they are faying, as if they were to beheard for much fpeaking, or as if God could nor orwould not hear them without they cry loud, and lov¬ing to hear themfelves fpeak, and others to admireand adore them: But thefe whp are long and loud iiipublic for ordinary, will be feldom and fhort in fe- jcret ; and when they are, they will extend their voicethat others may hear them •, which is exprefly fbi bid¬den : When we enter into our cldfels, we may hearourfelves, but no other If that loud way of praying-in fecret had been prachfed by our fuffers in throngpriibns, efpectally in' Dunnotar caflle, there woulditave been a frightful confufxl noife amongft them,to confufe one another, and to expofe them to themockage of the world as madmen. I am lure it wasthe only ftraitening tkmg to fuffer.ers, efpecially whenunder fentsnce of death, and upon their dying days,when they could not get out their breathWhen he went from Loudon-hill, he palled thro’the fibre of Air, Garrick, and into Galloway, preach¬ing, Baptizing, ami marrying, but ftaid a fhorf timethere. When he left Galloway, he faid, Farewel,Galloway, for 1 will never come back to thee again jfThou art now Galloway, but thou wht become atWallaway, and I fear other fibres in the fouth and 1:weft of Scotland will be little better. Mr. Peden hat|ithe fame expreftions, He came to Cydefdale, where hetookmoft delightand had greateft l.-berty in preaching and praying, aleveral other minifters at that time had the fame. Hdeligned to have preached at Tinto-hill, but the ladof St, John’s Kirk got notice, and wrote to fome public men that he was to preach at Home’s common, Hthe back of Coulter-heights : He.,was that night ijJohn Liddle’s, in Heldmire, near Pinto-hill; he wersarly in the Sabbath morning to it j thinking to fpenof Mr, Donald Cargill. gi'»line morning alone-, but when he faw the people paf-iiing. on, he called to fome of them, and «i quirediwhere they were going, they told him. tie fjid2l|that’s the lady’s policy to get us at fome didancefrom her houie ; but flie will be difcovered,; He kdlured that day upon the <5th of Ifaiah, upon(which he bad many fenteptions. fayings, I remember,(from that word, “ Whom {hall 1 fend ? And who willgo for us!” He laid, I'o fpeak with bcly reverence, wefee that the ' ririty of Heaven may be at a Hand, whereto get a fit mefiTenger to carry the mefiagethe pro¬phet laid, “ Here am I, fend me ’ i’is like if he hadknown what he was to do, he would hot have beenfo forward : For, if an honslt hearte’l minifter might'refufe any errand that God fent him, it would be todenounce judgements, upon a people, efpecialh fpiri-tuai: tlut the hand or God was here: And, when he,|gor his coaundHon to preach to that'people, and theyigre.-r more and more deaf and blind, he cried out,“ How long !■” And the anfwer was returned, “ Untilthe city be without inhabitants, and the Valid utterlySdefolate ” After he infilled a little in explaining thefewords, he laid, groaning deeply, If he knew any thingof the mind of God, this is the commiffion that we are{ getting, and the commiffion that minillers will get^tot preach the generation more and more deaf and blind.And preach who will, and pray who will, this deaf-nefs and this blmdnefs fhall remain until many habi-: table places of Scotland be as wafte and. defolate asthefe mountains, (looking to them with a Very wea¬ry countenance ) But remember l am fetting no time1 to this, we know not what fpirits we are of* “ a thou-| fand years appear in his fight as one day,” and a delay-1 ed thing was never forgot nor forgiven ; and the%long-er delayed, the forer when it comes. It will be thei midnight cry, “ the foolifh found afleed,” and the wifeJ flumbering, and will come upon you as a thunder-clap.He went on to the following verfe, “ Yet in it will beI a tenth who fiiall be as the Oak, which hath the lijb*32 The l ife and Prephejiesftanr^ in the root ” And from that he afferted, thaf,'as the Lord had preferred a remnant through all theperiods of the church : fo he would preferve a rem¬nant that would ride out all thefe whiter-dormsHe preached upon that word in the forenoon, “ Benot high minded, but fear.” His firft note was, Thatthefe who know themfelve* beft, would fear thenr-felves moft : And that, as ivwas hard to determinewhat a length ajiypocrite may go in the profeffionof religion, it was as hard to determine what a lengtha child of God may go in deLftion, having grace, butwanting the exercife thereof: And, that a chriftianmight go through nineteen trials, and carry honeftlyin them and fall in the twenteth “ While in the bo¬dy, be not high-minded, but fear.” I am not fpealdng :this of thefe wretched creatures. Woe to them, fomeof them are'nothing but devils, and many of themare milled For the Lord’s fake, look not to thefe, f"mean John Gibb and his company.The next Sabbath-day he preached af the Bendrybridge, betwixt Clydefdale and Lothian. He lectur¬ed in Zechariah, on Jolhua Handing before the An¬gel ; and preached in the forenoon upon that word,“ Gird thy fvvord upon thy thigh, and ride profper*oufly.” His firif note was, That no fooner Chrift be¬came all and all to a foul, but the next wilh of thatfoul is, O that he were thus to all the world.! And letnever none think that they are in a right exere fi: cftrue religion, that want zeal for God’s public glory:And in the afternoon upon that word, “ What will yedo in the day of vilitauon 1 where will you flee forhelp ! and where will you leave your glory ?” Fromthat he laid, What would all that knew not God, andobey not the gofpel do ? For he was coming withflaming fire to take vengeance upon all fuch : And■what would all wicked law-inventors, enadtors, and ex¬ecutors do, and all iniquitous law-obeyers, and keepersdo ? Where would they flee for help ? and wherewould they leave their ill-gotten glory ?of Ivlr. Donald Cargill.33j From the Bcfiry-briJge he went to Fife, and bap-iiized many chijdreu, and preached only one SabbathCat the Lomond-hills, and halted, back to Clydefdale,land came to the Bentyrij in Cambufntthen parifli,iwhere two friends, lent from the focieties in Gallo¬way to call him back there, to preach and baptize :where, alter he enquired for their welfare and friendsin Galloway,, he laid. Have your friends now in Ga'-;ioWay a:fy thoughts or fears of the Friench, or otherForeigners coming upon you i They faid, No. Hejofe and vve^t out, being a defart place, to a mols-hag,being the beft chamber oft-times tliat he, Cameron,hRenwick, and Shields had in thole days, who difplay-ed the public banner of the gofpel, after Bothweil-- oridge. It was but a fhort time that he {laid infmpany and converfe 'Fhefe two Galloway men;d to other friends, in that bounds, wiio were myivery dear acquaintance, who tsld me, why does thetninifter fpeir fuch a queftion at us? Thefe friendslaid, Enquire at bimfelf^ for we find this is nfs ordi¬nary with friends who have beep aj»y time out of hisxompany. When he came in, they faid. We havebeen thinking on what you laid to us, and we cannotiiinderftapd what you mean .by it. After muling, aliittle, for that was his cfduvary, efpeciail/ when theyI inquired any thing concerning the times,, he faid, Ur1 ,be not under a delafmn, (for tht- was his ordinaryIblfo, when he fpoke of things to come) tne Frefich,[land other foreigners, with wicked unhappy men it!|his land, will be your ftiokej and it will come injtuch a nick of time,when one of thefe nations will(no; be in a capacity tf help one another ; for me l am[to die ihortiy by the hands of thefe murderers, netjwm not lee it, I know not How the Lord’s people >villendure it, that have it to.meet with; but the ford-aad the forethought of it makes me to tremble;(And then, as his ordinary wa-', as it had bjen toauideif, laid, Short but very SharpThere were two very yourit* bus, who were tnt ve-34 The Life and Prophtfutry dear billies, whofe convsrfe and grayer togetlrefhave been very edifying to me, and the remembranceof it this day is favoury, rho lived in the Starry-fnaw,was very near that Bentyrig where he was, Thomasand John Marfhal, to whom he faid at that fametime, Lads, ye had meikle need to pray in earnefiyou have a (harp dorm to meet with, and many ftrange•faces to fee, and your bones {hall lie in a ftrange landThis came to pafs three years thereafter in December1684, about the fame time that I fell into- the ene¬mies hands, Meldrum, that wicked perfecutor, whointhe world had heard of, apprehended them and carried them to Glafgow. Walter Gibfon, merchantthere, got a gift of them and other twenty-eight, whoftarved and poifoned them with little and bad victuals,above all that ever I heard of that carried our banifh*ed to foreign lands; few of them in that Ihip livedany time in Carolina | Thomas died in a little timeafter their landing there, John lived for Tome time antdied there alfo. That which was the occalion of ouibaniflted being carried to fo many different places irthe world, was, in tbeie days, there were Scots regi¬ments in France, Flanders, and Holland ; and, whertheir men decayed, officers came hc-me feeking re¬cruits ; hearing of prifoners that were under banifh-inent, got gifts of them from the wicked bloody coun-fellors, and cairied them to thefe places. Theemerchants, fuch as Gibfon in Glafgow, and Maliocbin Edinburgh, Pitlochie, a laird in Ffe, and tnanjjjothers got gifts of them, (and, as the old faying isjljcocks are free of other folks corn,) who tranfportedthem to Carolina, JS'ew Jerfey, Jamaica, and barba-jidoes, to be their flaves; but none of them made theiiuplack a bawbee with trading in fuch wares, whiebiconfirms what that Angular Chrilhan James Clarkibn 1merchant in Linlithgow, whom the torelaid MaliochjJgot a gift of, with other thirteen, laid, when banilh-ed on Ihip-board in the roads at Leith, to which Iwas a wiinefsj We are the baddeft wares that everof Mr. Donald Cargill. - 35Mallbch had in his packfheet : and if ^^al!och or a-ny other that trade in fuch wares, be not great lofers,I am far miltakenIn that fliort time that bleft Cargill had to run,.heran fall: on foot, havijtg loft federal horfes in his re¬markable efcapes Wherever he was called, in feve-!al times, and different places of the land, when heat down for reft, being old and weary, he took aook of the many gentlemen’s buildings, and faid,■four lords, fairds, and gentlemen are making braveoufes, and large patks: they may build at leifure, iti inil not be long many of 'hem will poffefs their houfes,H'hlch have been nefts of wickednefs and unclean-iefs : They have dipt their hands in the perfecution:;ind deep compliance, but few of them have had a‘sr of land to fpare for the intereft of Chrift, andr will go a worfe gate, and their inheritance will■lomit out their names. The arcomplifhment of thisFhying- cannot pafs the obfervation of any who fee withlalf an eye, being fo univerfal : And their own fadiptperience can teftify, that fince that time, being now(orty-nine years fince his death, more eftates of hun-iired of years {landing, have changed mafters, thanfid for a hundred years before, almoft in all corners‘f the land, lieiides thefe lamentable holding rea-ibns that he gave, feveral other realons and ocurrenceslave fallen out fince, to bring it to pafs, fuch as,(e always bear the name of the poor proud Scots,mrough the world; and, as our poverty mcreafeth,» our pride, vanity, prodigality, and ambition growSf airy fool ftiles and titles. We were all once fairlyinked in our folemn national covenants, all noble-jfen, gentlemen, barons, burgeffes, minifters, andSummons of all ranks: But fince thefe covenants weretoken, burpt, and caft by, as almanacks out of date,e are all gone out of rank and file; the honour due> the fuperior is given to the inferior, our goodman,ad good-wife, is turned to Sir and Miftrefs, and ourx and Miitrefs to your honour and Madam: Since35 The Lifesind Propbejicsthe rebellion 1715, at>d fince the ftock-jobbing, a fool-ifh hafte to be rich hath made many poor; and manyother ways and things, living above their ftations andincome?, fpending their money on gaming, wine andwomen, have brought it to pafs. There are Tome len-tences in the end of our national-covenant, that may{trike terror to the hearts of all ranks; fuch as, “ Wecall the living God, the fearcher of our hearts to wit*nefs, who knoweth this to be our lincere defire andiunfeigned refolution, as we fh.iU anfwer toijefus Chriffc•at the great day, and under the pains of God’s ever-lafting wrath, and of infamy and lofs of all honourand refpect in this world,” &c.The next- Sabbath after he went from the Benty-rig, he preached at Auchingilloch, in the fouth fideof Clydf.fdale, and then returned to Clyde, Theweek before he was taken, he wa£ in the Lee-woodjjwhere he married fiobert Marfhall, cf Starry-(haw,brother t'- the fqrcfakl riaonjas and John Marilia'l.After they were fnne front him, Marion Cooper,fpoufe to John Weir, who dwelt in the Mains of Lee^two folid Chriftians and fufFerers in that time, broughthis dinner to Idm in the.wood : In the time thereofhe faid, What induced Robert to marry this woman 1this woman’s ill will overcome bis good, he will nolBkeep thfc way long, his thriving days are dene : whichljfadly came to rats in every jot. A little time there‘|after he was taken and put in prifon, fed in foul convljpiiance with the enemies, w'tnt home and h.eaid tho jcurates, and other flepS of defection, and hecam*|lightly e/leemed Vhts was the lift marriage he perl-formed, in which br*th he, Peden, Cameron ».n«Renwick, took as little delight as -in any piece o-their miniflerial work, although they would "heitlrediffuade or refufe, having t'uch a deep concern upottheir fpiritf, and* lookhig upon it as an evidence O!unconcernednefs with fhe many grievous things iithat day, and of futh a tendency to increafie the.r af{fictions: Some of them fhortly thereafter were taktf Mr. Donald Cargill. 37Ml cn, hanged, fliot, and baniilied ; thr.ir wives andi children put from their houfes, having no certainI. dwelling-place ; all which I can inftruct ; fome of all1 theie being my acquaintanceWhen hlarion was pr fling him to eat, he fait!,„ Let alone, I cannot be prefled-, f,,r I took not thatK meal of meat ttiefe thirty years, but what I could have' taken as much when L rofe a' when I fat down.1 had the happinefs to hearbieft Mr Cargiil preachlii his laft public fermon, (as I had fevcral times before, ~d for which, while I live, I defire t© blefs the Lord) inI Dunlyre common, betwixt Clydcfdale and Lothian,1 where he lectured on the firfl: chapter of Jeremiah,i and preached upon that ibnl-refreftiing text, Ifa. xxvi. ,-|j two laft verfes, “ Come, r*y people, enter into yourj| chambers,” &c Wherein he was fhort; marrowy, and:i fententious, as his ordinary was in all his public fermonsi and prayers, with the greateft evidences of concern-1 ednefs, exceeding all that ever I heard open a mouth,'li|-or faw open a bible to preach the gofpel, with the;; greateft indignation at the unconcernedneft of hear¬ers ^ He preached from experience, and went to theexperience of all that had any of the Lord’s graciousij dealing with their louls. Ir came from his heart andwent to the hear: as i have heard fome of our com-1 mon hearers fay, he fpr.ke as never man fpake, forif his words went through them.i . He iniifted what kind of chambers thefe were of« protection and fafety, and exhorted us all earneftlyto dwell in the clifts of the rock, to hide ourf Ives inthe wounds of Chrift, and- to wrap ourfclves in thebelieving application of the promiies, flawing there-t from ; and to make our refuge under the fhadow ofhis wings, until thefe fad oalaafities pafs over, andthe dove come back with the Olive-leaf in her mouth.1 Thefe were the laft words of his laft fermonSometime that night having fieveral miles to travel,rot daring to leave that defart place until it was dark,1 for fear of enemies: It was contrary to his inclinationD3 8 The Life and Prophefueto go that wry, but the lady of St. John’s kirk wasprefent, who had influence upon Mr. Smith and Mr. ]Boig, Who prevailed with him : Notwithflanding ofher great profeffion, he was always jealous of her,and would not go to her houfe, and feveral times faid,“ Whatever end ihe might make, there would befoul wide heps in her life.” That lady not onlyfollowed the porfecuted-gofpel, but alfo frequentedprivate fociety meetings ; particularly with thefe twoold lingular Chriftians, Thomas Tohnftone in Grange-hall in Pettinain, and Francis Liverance in Coven-toun, who were both my acquaintances. She feve-ral times faid to them and others, that if ever Iheturned from the way of thf| Lord, fne knew not whatIhe would make of thefe tl*ee Scriptures, viz Heb, vi.“ Being onceenhgUtened,” &c. Reb. x “ Sinning wil¬fully,” &c. and that in 2d Pet. feeond chapter, “ It hadbeen better for them,” &c. Yet after that, when hardcame to hard, in the two flaughter years of 1684 and85, Ihe turned lb far out of the way, that fhe became aperfecutor, and would fuff'er none to dwell in-her landthat would not hear the plagued curates, ner take theoath of abjuration. The two forefaid worthy chrif¬tians went together, to know what flie made of herforefaid feriptures ; but Ihe would give them no ac-cefs, by cauling ihut the gates upon them, it being jabout the middle of January 1 <587, Mr. Cargill wentalong with her the length of Covingtoun-mill, to thq [houle of Andrew Filher, and his fpoufe, ElizabethLind fay, my acquaintance, about a mile from her |houfe, near finto-hill, but would go no further.'James Irvine, of iionfhaw, who formerly made atrade of fine horfes, of omfarvg and'infang betwixtthe kingdoms, that U ing difeovered, he came to the >council and General Daiziel, and got a general com- tmiflion, although he was no ofiictr. All then knew 1that the wickedcii. and vilefl of men were then’em-ed, that wherever he was informed by the curfedligencers, that a ay of the L'crd’s fufieting peopletf Mr. Donald Cargill. 39tverc hiding, that the forces, foot and horfe, wereto ride and march at his command Accordingly ahat .Sabbath-night, at the fun-fetting, he mounted witha party of the dragoons from Kilbride, and the nextmorning, at the fun-rihng, he came to St. John’s kirk,twenty milfs, and ftarched that houfe narrowly *,then came to James Thomfon’s,-in the Muir-houfe,and fectrehed it. Many reflected upon the fore foldlady, that Ihe, leaving thefe worthies a few hours be¬fore that, in the time they were fear els ing her" ownhoufe and James Thomfon’s, which took ,fome time,' did not fend and advertife them, being only a milediftant. Next he came to Covingtoun-miU, and fur-rounded- that houfe and chamber, two beds being init, where I have refled feme times flnee, where theywere lying, and mot fallen afleep ; when he foundthem, he cried out, Oh bltiTed Bonfhaw ? And blefledday that ever he was born, thad had found fuch aprize this morning; this he did and faid, out of hisi great w’ickednefs, and profpect of the rich rewardthat was fet on-the head of Mr. Cargill, to any thatI would apprehend him either quick or dead, whichf was 6000 merks.They marched hard to Lanark, and put the ptifon-Iers in the tolbooth, until the folcfler- got meat anddrink ; they got borfes brought them but in hafte, andj fet them on tfleir bare backs - Bonfiraw with his ownhand, tied Mr. Cargill’s feet below the horfe’* bellyvery hard ; he looked dowm to him and faid, Why doyou tie me fo hard ? Your wickednels is great, yonwill not long efcape the juft judgment of God ; and,if 1 be not miftaken, it will feize upon you in thisplace.They halted to Glafgow, flxteen miles, fearing the: prifoners had been taken frona them, which many ofthe Lord’s zealous people would willingly have ven¬tured their all, to have delivered their brethren drawnunto death, “ and thofe that are ready to be flain,”Frov. xxiv. 11 ftc. But their taking being fo furprifing,4° ’ The Life and ProphejiesanJ their march fo hafty, that they could not be con¬vened wherjjhey caa.e netr the city, they turned himupon tlie liorfe, and led him backward; which mademany to weep to fee their old minifter in that pofturc,he being for feme years fettled minifter in the Baronykirk ; and iome wicked to rejoice. When they came tothe totbocth, they halted until the magiftrates came:o receive them. John Nifbet, Bifhop Paterfon ofGlalgow’s factor, looking over the ftair, out of hisgreat wickednefs, merrily faid, Mr Cargill,' (threetimes over in fport) In effect, will you not give usone woril more ? 1 Ins he faid, becauie Mr Cargill, in.public, iametimes faid, In effect we will fay that,one word, or, I have one word more to fay. Mr.Cargill lobked to him, and with concernednefs, faid.Wicked poor'man, why do ye mo<fk ? Ere you die,you will' defire one word, and will not get- it.■Shortly thereafter, he was ftruck dumb, his tonguefwelling in his mouth. Robert Goodwin and JohnHodge, two Glafgow men, who were witneflts tothis, and went to vifit him lying in that cafe, told methis when in prifon, in the years 1684 and 85, in theCanongate of Edinburgh, Robert Goodwin delrredhim to write what ftopt.him from fpeaking, and if hehad a great defire to fpeak. Me wrote ! “ That itwas a juft judgment from the Lord, and the fayingsof the minifter verified tipon him, for hi» mocking ofhim ; and if he had the whole world, he would giveit for the ufe of his torvnue again:” But ihat he ne- •ver got.Bonlhaw hafted to Edinburgh with his prifoners.When Mr. Cargill came before the council, chancel¬lor Rothes raged againft him, being one of the feveix,whom he had excommunicated at the Torwood thepreceding year, and gave them over to their fatherthe devil, whole works they did, and to whole fervicethey had dedicated themfelves. Rothes threatened himwith extraordinary torture, and a violent death. Hefaid, my Lcrd Rothes, forbear to threaten me j for, dieof Mr. Donald Cargill. 41Tfliat death I will, your eyes- will do*- fee it : Andit is well known to fome yet alive, that he died thatmorning that Mr Cargill, and thefe worthies withhim, fufFered in the afternoon. Shortly after thiscompearance of Mr. Cargill before the council, Rotheswas feized with ficknefs and pains : And when hefound the pangs of death turning fharp upon him,| he cried out for fome of his wife’s minifters, (fhe be- ,ing a favourer of Prefbyterian minifters) for his mi¬nifters were good to live with, but not to die with.•He fent for old Mr John Carftairs, who with Mr.| George Johnfton came to him. Mr. Carftairs dealt1 very faithfully and, freely with him, rehearfing ma-1 ny wicked acts of his life: To whom he faid, WeI Vd thought little of what that man did in excommu-I nicating us; but I find'that fentehce binding on merow, and will bind to eternity. When Mr. Johnftonr was praying, feveral noblemen and bifhops being inII the ne,xt room, fome of them faid to the bifhops, He| is a Preibyterian minifter .that is praying j the devri| Sne of you can pray as they do,, though your prayers11 would keep a foul out of hell. Rothes roaring fo loudj tinder the horror of confcience, for his-a<ftive wickedill life in perfecuting, made thefe noblemen leave hint,1 weeping. William, Duke of Hamilton, faid, Wed banifh thele men from u;, and yet when dying, wea call for them ; this is melaneho’y workMr. Cargill,- and thefe martyrs murdered withil him, got their indictment with found of trumpet ;9 When they ended their found, he faid, That's a wea¬ry found, “ But the found of the laft trumpet willbe a joyful found to me, and all that will be foundhaving on Chrift’s righteoufaejs,”;! While in nrifon, a gentlewoman vifited him, toldhim weeping. That the heaven-daring enemies were! contriving and propofing an extraordinary violent[death for him; Some, a, barrel with many pikes toroil him in, others an iron-chair, for his body toroaft and burn there; he faid, Let you, nor none of42The Life and Prophefiesthe Lord’s people be troubled for tliefe things ; forall that they will get liberty to do to me, will be toknit me up, cut me down, and chop off my old -head ; and then fare them well, they have done withme, and i with them for ever.When he and thofe with him, came to get their fen-tence of death, their indictments wexe read, where¬in they had their 1'entences, as their common formthen was, via. “ Having call off all fear of God,“ and adted fo and fo, and therefore deferved to beti punilhed fo and fo He laid to the clerk, Halt;and (pointing to apoftate Sir George Mackenzie thenadvocate) faid, L'h.e man that hath caufed that paper“ to be drawn in that form, hath done it contrary to ;“ the light of his own corffcience ; for he knows l“ have been a fearer or God from my infancy ; but I |“ fay, the man that took the holy Bible in his hand, ftand f ii, that it would nerer be well with the land,“ till that book was deftroyed, with many ether.f( wicked exj rrffii and adtions in his life * I fay,“ he is the man that has call off all fear of God.”The advocate {formed at this; but did not- deny thetruth of ir, knowing that he had thus expreffed him-felf, in feme of his wicked mad fits, l here is yetalive, an old reverend minifter in ‘he fouth of Sco land,was witnefs to this, and can aff rt the truth of it, whoieveral times fince had faid, that he admired the com-pofednefs and confidence of Mr. Cargi 1 While iirprifon, he had written more at large, though he wasihort, marrowy, and fententious in preaching, pray- >ing, and writing, as may be feen in his few publicletters, his hit Ihcrt fpeech, and what he fpake up- -on the fcaffold, publifhed in the Cloud of Witndles, ,which I wtfli from my heart, that all the Lord’s pco- •pie would narrowly and ferioufly perufe; they have fbeen very ufeful and edifying to me and many others. 1His more large paper was taken from him, by thewicked curfed keepers, of that rime; his fliort fpeechleft behind him, he wrote that morning before hetf Mr. Dcnald Cargill. 42,1 died, before eight cf the r. ode, that the doors werej Opened, rnd be was to I'uSvr that day.tie and thefe worthies murdered with him, got’ their fentences of death the day before, wherein thefe(admirable and very rare fenrences (ire to be found,i viz That that day was the mod joyful day in all hisilife*, and that he had not been without an alTuranceof his iatereft in Chrift, thefe thirty y^rs, nor long:out of his prefence; and, that he never durft under¬take to preach Chrift and falvation to others, untilihe was fure of his own> Oh1 if all our minifters hadtaken this courfe, there had been Ids detection a-imonfj us ; and, 3 hat it was long lince he durft haveitentured upon death and eternity, but deadi re-imained fontrwhat terrible, but now the terror ofjithat was taken away, and by virtue of the mercieslef God, and merits of Chrift, he had a confcienceas quiet and calm as if he had never tinned.T when he can.e to the fcaffold and foot of the !ad-<,der, he bldhe:! the Lord with uplifted hand?, that hewas thus near the crown ; and when fetting his foot.upon the ladder to go up to embrace the bloody rope,he fdd, The Lord knows, I go up this ladder withidefs fear, coniufion, or perturbation of mind, thanever 1 entered a pulpit to preach. He was fir ft turnedever, Mr- Smith did cleave to him in love and unitylof life, fo he died with his face upon his breaft :SNext Mr Boig, then William Cm hill, and WilliamThomfon: Thefe five worthies hung all on one gib-.ibet, at the crofs of Edinburgh, on that never-to be-forgo t-n bloody day, the 27th of July t,68i The-tenemies got this great glut of blood, the day beforeiche down-fitting of the parliament, wherein the duke.bf York did prefide as commililoner. I he hangmanutrafhed and hagged off all their heads with an axe.Mr. Cargill's, Mr. Smith’s, and Mr Boig’s headswere fixed upon the Netherbow-port, William Cu-ithili’s and William Thomfon’s upon the Weft-portThe wicked, curfed of God, and hated of all44The Life and Propbejiesrigbt-thinking men, Bonfhaw, got not his reward of jj6ooc merles, till the next year in May, the price ofjjinnocent blood, precious blood, dear blood, blood 11that cries both loud and long ■, how lhall, or can the j|tyranny ot flieddiBg innocent blood, and defections nof all rank1; in thofe days, be forgot ? Shortly there¬after he came to Lanark, where be and one of hisicurfed comrades fell a-fighting ; hfc comrade thruffchim through the belly with a fword, where blood anddirt ran out. This account I had fronj feyeral wor¬thy perfons, who were witneflts to both the threat-enings of the man of God, when he tied him hard,and to the accempliihment thereof. Bonfhaw’s laftwords were, “ God damn his foul eternally, for h&* was gone * “ Mifchief flrrll hunt the violent man t‘4lhe be ruined : Which makes good the old Scots fay¬ing. Such life, fuch end with the moft part.” *Whofo defires to be further informed of the life,and death of bieft.Cargill, let them perufe the rela¬tions that are given of him by Mr Shields in fhsTdind-let Loofe, and in the Cloud of Witnefies Hislaft teftimony, and what he fpake upon the fcaliold,'his marrowy fententious letter to leveral prifoners,when under fentence of death, and his letter to theGibbites in the Correftien-houfe, and his letter tohis parilhj yet in the hands of lonae, are to be foundin the Cloud of Witneflcs,When that bieft fingular Chriftian, zealous andfaithful miniftfr and martyr, Mr Cargill, was firftapprehended and brought before the council, they|were fierce and furious againft him, efpecially chan¬cellor Rothes, but thofe that were in council andheard what Mr Cargill faid to him, and filw andheard whit Rothes.faid when he was d\ing, roaringunder horror of conitience, and his bed fliaking, puta fright upon their fpirits, and drew tears trom .theireyes, which verified what he faid at the Fala. hill onthe Sabbath after the excomutunication as before re¬lated, and made them to propofe in council, “ lhatof Mr. Donald Cargill. 45‘c he was olJ, and had done all the ill that he woulddo, to let him go to the Bafs, and be prifoner there“ durittg life.” it was py.t to the vote, and AfgyleHaid, ‘Let him go to the gallows, and die like a traitor;*which caft the vote upon him to die, as I faid before.I The parliament fat down the day following, Julyi8th i63i, which framed the curfcd teli, with fevencontradictory oaths in it, which Argyle took withexplication. This did not fatisfy tile Duke of Yorkmd oild rs, looking upon him with an ill eye, becaufe»f his father being active in cur reformation ; he wascmnediattly clapt up prifoner in tlie Caftle, out ofrhioh he efcaped the 30th day of December follow-;ig : He fled fouth to the border, where he met withdr Veitch, late minifter in Dumfries, who conductedaim through the country to the houfe of Mr. Bitle-:on, near Newcaftle. After they were fet down,is acquaintance, Argyle being a ftr anger, diguifed in■aarfe clothes, Mr. Bitlefton faid, ! have received atetter juft now from Scotland, that Argyle has efcap-i out of the caftLe; of which I am very glad if it. 2 certain. Mr. Veitch faid, he doubted no; the cer-ninty of it : They inflfted both at exp;effing theiry at the news. Mrs. Bitlefton being prefect, fa cl, Iipnot be fo much taken up with that news as youe; 1 know that houfe or Argyle was a good houfer our Reformation, and his father fuffered for it;tit, himfelf he hath been a member of thatflicked bloody council thefe 18 years, where many a'licked thing have been sifted and done: But, above-t', it was his vote that took away the life of ourirthy. dear friend, Angular Mr Cargill; and I anve his blood may lie heavy on him now, and makem have a melancholy flight and hiding .Argyleude no reply. After they had got a drink, flic con-lyed them to different rooms ; After fome time fheI:nt to ArgylTs room, being the-greateft ftranger.2 bad laid down a tine watch and night-cap uponj: tabic, which did net anfwer his deaths; he hid.46 The Life and Prophefejopened up lumfelf which perfumed the room. Shecame quickly back to her hufband, and laid, l an*perfuaded this is Argyle. He laid, I am of the famijmind ; but you are oft-times o’er plain in your dif-couife. She faid, no, no 5 ’tis good fpeaking to himnow in the day of his diftrefs ; if we were once feldown to dinner, I fhall ufe more freedom. In the turnthereof they came to fpeak of his efcape again, lh<took the occafion,' and told ali the ill things-ihe hearsabout'him. He laid, Argyle will not free himfelf ojlmany of thefe things ; but he is not fo guilty of therEflSill as the world reports him .to be After this, MrVeitch told them, that it was Argyle, and that h«relblved for London. lie then put bimfelf in anothddrefs, but could not have a fine horfe. Mr Bitleftogifted him his gelding, and fier^ his fan John to convoj' them, who ga^e me this account when he returned. Argyle gave him a little purfe and thirty guineain it : When he came t» his father he gave the' purl"to him : His father faid, Johnnie, if I had know:this you, fhould nor have gone your foot-length wit!them: There’s more here than my horfe is woitbMr Veitch conveyed him to London When MiVeitch parted with him, he faid to him, Give mlove and fervice to all friends where we have beerefpecially, to my free communing landlady MrBltlefton. From that he went to Holland, and w*abroad to the middle of May 1685. and then camto Inverary with, feme men and many notable arm:Monmouth came to England that fame fummer.OAfter Argyle landed, one morning walking at fhwater-ficle very fad, Mr. Thomas Urquhart, who fuifered in the Grafs-market that fame lummer, came thim, and faid, I am forry to fee your l^ordihio 1melancholy ! He faid, how can I be otherwife ? i fefew coming to our a Hi dance » I am perfuaded I wibe called Infatuate Argyle ; but all char does notrouble rne fo much as that unhappy wicked votegave againlt that good man and minuter, Mr. Cargil* • V «of Mr. Donald Car gill. 47i and now perfuaded I’ll die a violent death, ia theifam« fpot where he died.'i Howev'*, Argyie got together above 1500 men,: and expt&ed a great many more would have joinedhim, in order to oppoie tha King and Council in theirbloody cruelties carried on in theft days, but he wasdilappointed, and after feveral unluccefsful attempSr,without^.;ver comihg to any total adtion, and his offi¬cers differing among themfelvas, the mofl. of his mendeferted, and finding it*impra£licable to do any thingto purpofe, he difmifred the jvhole, and put himfelfin difguife but was foon taken by a few militia at thetoaiei of Inchinnan He was carried to Edinburghwith a fireng guard, and by order of the Councilttarr'ed up the ftreet with his hands tied behind his[back, and bare headed, the hangman going beforehim, and lodged in the caftle t 'And in order to rnake;quick work, the fentence that was pafied againft h:m'Ij6S1, three years before, for his explication of theteft, was put in execution without bringing him to a-my further trial. While in the caflle he had thefeliremarkable expreffions in. .con ver fat ion with a dearfriend. “ My grofs compliances are now fad andgrievous to me : for thefe the Lord would not honourume to be inftrumental in his work, but I defire to diern the faith of a deliverance to his church and peo->ble ; and tho* I will rot take upon me to be a pro-ijphet, yet having ftrong impreffions thereof upon myIpiHi, I doubt not but her deliverance will come veryjjfuddenly, and I hope it (hall be well, ft is true, myitfamily is low; and l have nothing to leave them ; butjif they feek God they will be wonderfully feen tofind provided for ; and if they do not, l care notIwhat come of them J fear feme have eyed me toopi jmuch as an inftrument Lean nqt to tire arm ofQefli.” The day oP his e xecution (30th June 1685,)his Lordfhlp dined with grave and becoming thear-fulnefs; and being ufed to flecp a little after meat, 4he retired to the ciofet, and laid himftlf down oa ,4§ ■ The Life and Propheftesa bed, and fcr about a quarter of an hour asji’wettly and pleafant as ever. Meanwhile an officerof ftate eame in and inquired for him. His friendstold him. that his Lordfliip a_s ufu.il was taking dnap after dinner, and deiired that he might not bedifturbed. When he faw the Earl in tnat poflure, hewas fo inapreffed, that he halted from the caftle to arelation’s in the Caftlehill, and throwing hiiTre!f on & <bed/difcovered great dill refs of mind; and, whenafked the caufe of all hi* trouble, laid, 1 have been !in at Argyle, and law him deep as pl< afantly as i>|ver a man did, and he is now within an hour of eter-nity; but as for me, &c»His Lardfhip, when he came to the SoafFold, deli¬vered a very judicious and pious difccurfe to the fpec4tators ; after which, having taken Leave of hi friends^he at laft kneeled down, and, embracing the maiden,faid, “ i his is the fweeteft maiden £ tv£r killed, itbeing the mean to findli thy fin and nailery, andmy inlet to glory, for which I long.” Then heprayed a little within h'rmfelf, thrice uttering tlicfewords, “ Lord -f.Tus, receive me mto thy gloryend lifting up his hand, which was the iignal, theixecutiorer did Ids Iwork. ,Thus died the nobie Earl of Argy'e, a martyrnet oniy to the proteftant religion, but aifo bearinghis Lall tefthnoay tigainfi: prelacy as weil as popery.His too great compUances wiih the'managers nrevi-ous4o the affairs of the tefi. lay heavy upon him tothe laft* but nothing grieved him fo much as tae un-happy vote he gave againft Mr. Caigilhj. NEX1.S0N, PRINTER.T.FINIS,