THEUnpardonable SinAGAINST THEHoly Ghost.j. / cucncu, mj me juateMr. ROBERT RUSSEL.Minister of the Gospel at Wardhurst,in Sussex.EDINBURGH:Printed for the Booksellers.1816.ASERMONON THEUNPARDONABLE SIN.|1 John, v. iG.- There is a Siti utiio deathJ HIS sin which St. John calls here, “ The s;“ unto death,” is the unpardonable sin against Jthe Holy Ghost described by our blessed Saviour jAlattli. xii. 32. That whosoever commits it, hatlijl,no forgiveness, neither in this world nor in theWworld to ccme ; T'or,. “ All manner of sin andblasphemy, shall be forgiven unto men; but theblasphemy against the Holy Ghost, shall not he gforgiven unto-men. And he that speaketh a iword against the Son, it shall he forgiven him atut whosoever speaks against the Holy GhostJ tshall never be forgiven, neilhet in this worldj tnor in the world to ccme.” This sin againstthe Holy Ghost, is that sin which St John calif j-here, “ The -sin unto death.” Kot bcciuj (that sin deserves death alone, for so does all : ndeserve death both temporal and eternal: “ l''o*|the wages of sin, even all sin, is death.” Fimivi. 23. But this sin against the Holy GhostC 3 3called, “ The sin unto death/’ because it bindsman over to eternal death, without any poSsi-|lity of recovery. Now, some there are, thaton from one degree of sin to another ; theylighten and aggravate their sin more and more,itil they are brought to that height at last, ascommit that sm for which there is no for-.Ifveness.There is no mere man since the fall, canve without sin, foi all are sinners : But yet theree degrees of sin; some sins, in their ownpure, are small; others are more great andeinious. Many sins there are that are great,it pardonable ; and one sin there is, unpardon-j)le: And whosoever commits that one sin,ill have no foregiveness, but must forever bearweight and punishment both of that and of1 his other sins. There is such a sin as St, Johnaks of here in my text, that is, “ A sin untolath.” And now I come to the explication of1 words ; from whence I shall raise this pointI doctrine.Doct. “ That amongst all the sins committedby fallen mankind, there is only one sin, that' A sin unto death / and whosoever com-mitteth that, he hath no forgiveness, neitherin this world, nor in the world to come,”Now, for my further proceeding on this sufe-t, I shall lay open to you.What “ The sin unto death,” is.- C 4. nSecondly, That all other sins, how great and |heinous soever may be forgiven.Thirdly, That this sin alone, shall never be IIIforgiven.Fourthly, The reason why this sin alone is|§unpardonable. And then.Lastly, I shall conclude all with a feiof Application.I shall begin first with a description of thisunpardonable sin: Where I shall endeavourto mak^ as plain a description of it, as possibly1 can. And, in doing of it, I shall 1 Shew younegatively, what is not this sin. 2 I shall sheiyou positively what it is.I shall shew you, negatively, what is no\The sin unto deathOr, in what degreea man may sin, and yet not commit that unpar¬donable sin against the Holy Ghost-1 It is not every quenching of the motionsof the Spirit that is this sin. It is true whenthe Holy Ghost comes with a still voice, andknocks at the Aoor of sinners’ hearts for entrance,he often comes and strives with them and secretly'wooes and beseeches them to leave their sins andibe converted ; yet they quench and stifle all thimotions, and bear up their hearts against hi mland wi!i not be obedient to the heavenly callNow, such sin grievously against the Holy Ginn 5 ^but yet this alone is not the unpardonable sinagainst the Holy Ghost; for many that havestood it out a long time, and have often quenchedand grieved the Holy Spirit, yet at last they havebeen wrought upon into sincere conversion,2 A man may commit many heinous andcrying sins, and yet not be guilty of, the un-pardonable sin against the Holy Ghost. A manmay be an idolater, a whoremonger, a fornicator,a m derer, and work witchcraft, and sin witha very high hand; nay, he may live in all man¬ner of filthiness and lewdness, and yet not beunder the guilt of the unpardonable sin againstthe Holy Ghost. Thus we read, 2 Chrn. xxxiii.that Manasseh sinned with a very high hand ;he was an idolater, an inchanter, and workedwitchcraftSand dealt with familiar spirits andwrought much evil, in the sight of the Lord.—And Mary Magdalen had seven devils cast out ofher, Luke viii. 2. and yet both were pardoned.3. A man may sin presumptuously againstgreat light and knowledge, hnd yet not committhi$ sin uuto death : For, Peter, when he deniedChrist, he did it against great knowledge ofChrist; he knew Christ to be his Lord and Sa¬viour, he was one of Christ’s beloved disciples ;and, for all that, how strongly he denied Christ,and that with an oath : And yet, for all that,Christ looked upon him with a merciful eye andhe repented and was forgiven.4. It is not every malicious sin that is theunpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost: for_ C 6 nSt. Paul certainly liad great malice in his heartwhen he went on so furiously to persecute thechurch of God, and yet he was converted, andbecame a preacher of the gospel of Christ, whichbefore he persecuted.5. And lastly. It is not final unbelief, norfinal impeifitence, that is the unpardonable sinagainst the Holy Ghost, tho’ some be of opinionthat it is, because that sin is unpardonable, andChrist bimself hath said, Mat. xxii. 31. “ Thatall manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgivenunto men, except it be the sin against the HolyGhpst,” But you are to take the words of ourSaviour in their true sense and meaning ; it isall manner of sin and blasphemycommitted withinthe compass of a man’s life, that shall be forgiven,except the sin against the Holy Ghost; for thesin of final impenitence, and final unbelief, .isnot completed until the very moment of a man’sdeath; and then you know that there is no repen¬tance, and consequently no pardon after death;for Christ said, “ He that sins against the Holy /Chost, hath no forgiveness, neithesin this worldnor in the world to come.” Now, why shouldChrist say, “ In this world,” if there be no spaceto be forgiven in this world ? But a man maycommit the unpardonable sin against the HolyGhost eve.n many years before his death.—Besides, there are many thousands that die inimpenitence and unbelief and are damned andyet never committed the unpardonable sin againstthe Holy Ghost.C r 3Thus have I shewed you, negatively, whats not this unpardoriabfe sin ; none of those sinsii particular is that sin.II. I come now to shew you positively, whathis sin unto death is, and wherein this upardon-ile sin against the Holy Ghost doth consist.- Now there are several opinions in the worldout it, but I will endeavour,, through God’sielp, to lead you to the'plain sight of it by theight of the holy Scriptures.Now, in the first place you must know, thatthere are two sorts of people that cannot commit[this unpardonable sin.The true believers cannot commit it; becauseIt is a sin against great light and knowledge.—,indeed the greatest part of the world .shall be‘ imned ; yet among the greatest part, there areait few of them that can commit that unpardon-Jble sin against the Holy Ghost.Some have both light and grace ; these shallnot commit the unpardonable iin.Again, some have neither light nor grace ithese cannot commit that unpardonable sin a-gainst the Holy Ghost.| Now, there must be two ingredients, to makeup this unpardonable sin; that is. light in thehead, and malice in the heart: Without thesetwo the sin against the Holy .Ghost, cannot bef committed; for, to sin against great light andc nknowledge, nor yet to sin ignorantly,|withomalice, is that sin ; but they must both join tgether to make up this unpardonable sin. Thwe see plainly by the example or St. Peter atSt. Paul; Peter denied Christ, and forswaihimself too, and that grievously against ligfiand knowledge • for he knew Christ to be thonly begotten Son of God, and he knew Goin him ; he was one of Christ’s disciples, and onof his beloved disciples too; he was taught cChrist, and had experimental knowledge of hilove and favour, and yet be wickedly with atoath denied him. Now, {if Peter had done thhout of malice and spite, then he had committee 'that sin unto death for which there is no for¬giveness ; but Peter had no malice in his heartall the while, even at the time when he deniedChrist, as you may see in Matth. xxvi 34. 35.when Christ told him. Before the cock crow,thou shalt deny me thrice he answered.I should die with thee, I will not deny theeAnd then denying him, through infirmity anc«weakness of the flesh, when he had considered]what he had done, “ He went out and wept;bitterly,” Ver. 75. But Paul had great maliceand spite against the ways and people of G°d,as you may see. Acts ix. i. “ Paul breathed outthreatnings and slaughters against the disciples^of the Lord, and went to the high priest, desir«£ing of him letters to Damascus, to the Syna«.gogues, that if he found any of this way, whethermen or women, he should bring them bound1c 9 nto Jerusalem.” Now here was great rage andmalice in Saul, against the ways and the peopleof God; but doing it ignorantly, he at last hearda voice saying, “ Saul, Saul, why persecutestthou me ? " And seeing a light from heaven,and hearing it was Jesus that he persecuted, hewas pricked at the heart, and trembling andastonished said, “ Lord what wilt thou have meto do?” Now, by these two places of Scripture,you may plainly see, that Peter sinned againstgreat light, and Paul out of great malice; yetneither of them committed the unpardonable sinagainst the Holy Ghost. But whensoever lightand malice meet together in one man then thereis the sin against the Holy Ghost. Now, as allother sins, so is this sin against th'e Holy Ghost,In thought; that is, when a wicked man,igainst his dear light and kno'wledge, doth but:onceive a malicious thought or purpose towardslersecuting the Gospel of Christ, or of the saintsf Christ, to hinder the work of the Holy Ghostn them.This sin as is to be thought, was the sin ofLhe lost angels ; for which cause they were lostwithout all hopes of pardon. Now some disputewhether this sin was a sin of the thought: butsay, in all likelihood it was; for the angelsteing only spirits, without bodies, and so havingto use of bodily tongues, it could not be com-nitted in word, nor yet could they commit itn action’ because they were cast out of heaven.mrc 1® nbefore they could bring; it into practice : therore it must be a sin. for the thought.1 Now, the sin was this: Their habitathbeing in the highest heavens, and undei G(himseU, they, had exceeding great light ani. knowledge ; they had more knowledge than athe men in the world (ever had, and were happabove ail other creatures.; but, when not beincontented with this estate, they thought ta,las high as God himself, therefore, they maliciousBought to make war against the Son it God anwere immediately thnrst out of heaven, nevmore to see the face of mercy ; and thus, fro: the beginning, they have been counted mahcioiand revengeful; as raging beasts, and *s roariilions. Thus their sin being of tne same-natuiwith the sin against the Holy Ghost, they we:excluded all hopes of pardon.But that the sin of our first parents was no'i. the unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghiis clear; for, thougl.i they sinned against grlight, yet they obeyed, and complied with iwill of God, even when the tempter came, uniat last they were enticed and overcome; bud, they did not fall maliciously, and so were nPexcluded all possibility of merey2. This sin may he committed in word toOjthat is, when a man speaketh blasphemously a Jmaliciously of Christ and bis holy ways. Thfi: n 1iras the sin of the Scribes and Pharisees, Mark,iii. 22. “ There were certain Scribes who cameand said, This Fellow hath Beelzebub/and castethout devils by the prince of devils.” Thereforesaith Christ unto them, ver 28. 29/’ Verily I sayunto you, All sins shall be forgiven to the sonsot men, and blasphemes wherewith they shallblaspheme; but whosoever shall blasphemeagainst the Holy Ghost, hath never forgiveness,but is in danger of eternal damnation.”Now, the reason of this speech of our blessedSaviour, is shewn in ver. 30. “ Because they said.He hath an unclean spirit." Which plainly shews,that those Scribes had spoken blasphemy againstthe Holy Ghost; as these Scribes were greatlearned men, they could know no other but thatChrist was the Son of God, and must knowthat he cast out devils by the Spirit of God, andyet they, out of spite to Christ, maliciously andblasphemously said, “ That he cast out devilsby Beelzebub the prince of devils.” Thus theScribes committed the unpardonable sin againstthe Holy Ghost, and that in word,3. This sin may be committed in action too;that is, when a man being once thoroughlyenlightened, having entered upon a holy courseof life, and tasted the comforts of God’s Spirit,and some foretaste of the joys of heaven, andnot only makes profession of the gospel, butteaches it to others ; yet, at last, take a disliketo. the holy courses, and through spite and malicec: 12 nutterly forsaken, opposes and persecutes thosegood ways of God, which he before professedand taught. But, to sum up this point, thisunpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost, is fullydescribed by the apostle to the Hebrews, Chap,x. 26, 27, 29- <c For if we sin wilfully after wehave received the knowledge of the truth, thereremaineth no more sacrifice for sin, hut a fearfullooking for of judgment, and fiery indignation,which shall devour the adversaries.—Of howmuch sorer punishment shall he be thoughtworthy, who hath trodden under foot the Sonof God, and counted the blood of the covenant,wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing,and hath done despite to the Spirit of grace ?"Likewise, Heb. vi. 4, 5, 6. “ For it '# impossiblefor those who are made partakers of the HolyGhost, and have tasted the good word of God,and the powers of the world to come, if they fallaway, to renew them again to repentance, seeingthey crucify to themselves afresh the Son of God,and ptit him to open shame.”Now', the sin against the Holy Ghost, isbriefly this: It is a wilful and malicious opposingthe known truth, joined witl; final apostacy.I shall a little explain these words, and thenproceed.1. This sin unto death is an opposing sin.Now, to oppose a thing, is to contradict it, orgainsay it; as when a man says a thing is soand so, he denies it, and says it is'not so; ort 13 1when a man says a thing must be done, he saysagain. It must not, or it shall not be done ; suchan opposition is in the heart of him that commitsthis unpardonable sin : But a man may be an(opposing man, and yet may not commit this sin.Therefore,2. It is the truth he must oppose ; that is,he must utterly oppose and reject Christ, whosaid, “ I am the truth,” John xiv. 9. He opposethpll his threatenings, and will not believe his'ijpromises, and counts the Blood of the covenant[ to be an unholy thing: Nay, he also opposethi the Spirit of Christ, who is the Spirit of truth ;i so that he will not obey his motions,'and willi not be led nor guided by him. But a man mayoppose the truth, and do it ignorantly : There-jfdre.jl 3. It must be the known truth that heSopposeth. He must be one enlightened ; butyou must know, it is not only a rational know¬ledge, and human learning, for he may knowmuch of God, and of his will, in the letter ofhis word, and yet not be capable of committingthis unpardonable sin ; but be. must be so farenlightened as to see the evil that is in sin, andthe excellency of Christ; he must taste of theheavenly gift, and be made partaker of theHoly Ghost; and taste of the good word of God,and the powers of the world to come; and bythe blood of the covenant, which he counts asI an unholy thing, he is in part sanctified and!c 14 ncleansed from many sins; he must have sweacommunion with God, in his word and sacrainent: he must have some taste of the love an;favour of God, and comforts of his Spirit, an!be refreshed by it, and taste of the joys of heaveijand have some foretaste of the happiness of thworld to come. This is that light and knowledge that lays a man open to the committir]©f that unpardonable sin: But yet a man may siagainst ajl the light and experimental knowledgjand yet do-it through the weakness of the fleslior through some violent temptations, as Peter dfiwhen he denied Christ: Therefore,4. He must oppose the known truth wilfully.He must wilfully fall away, after he hath r<ceived the knowledge of the trudi; other share committed through infirmity, but this sin :wilful, the will is the chief actor in it; and (compleat and make up this unpardonable si«there is,5. Malice in the heart: Without thithis sin cannot be committed. It must be a milieious* opposing of the known truth ; that iwhen a man being once enlightened, and havittasted oF the heavenly gift, and the good wolof God, and hath been made partaker of t!Holy Ghost,and hath had some sweet relish arforetaste of heaven, he comes to take a dislili:and to hate the holy ways of God, and malicious! ioppose and persecute them, in despite of I ;Spirit of grace, crucifying afresh the Son of Go!Now, a man having gone thus far, he comes,in the last place* to be an apostate ; for thus tooppose wilfully and maliciously the known truth,is always joined with final and total apostacy :For he that is so far enlightened as to see theevil of sin, and the excellency of Christ and holi¬ness, and hath been made partakers of theHoly Ghost, of his graces and comfort, ahd■ tasted of God's love and favour in Jesus Christ,and,has some foretaste of the joys of the worldto come; for such a one wilfully, spitefully, andmaliciously to fail away, he set falls as never torise more.. It is true, the children of God fall,and that often, and rise again ; , hut then theyfall through weakness or infirmity, and notwilfully or maliciously ; but these wicked wretch¬es fall wilfully aha maliciously, and so fall finally.Against such, the d«or of mercy is for ever shut!Concerning such, St. Peter said,v‘ It'had beenbetter for theih not to have known the way ofrighteousness, than after they had known it, toturn fropi the. holy commandment' deliveredunto them : But it happened unto thent according 'to the true proverb. The dog is returned to hisvomit again, and the sow that was washed, toher wallowing in the mire,” 2 Pet. if. 21. 22.There is a dreadful place in1 Scripture againstthese .kind of apostates : that is, Hebl'-x 26.'‘For if we sin'willfully, after we have receivedthe knowledge of the truth, there rerhaineth homore sacrifice for sin, but a fearful looking for,of judgment, and fiery indignation,”C 16 nThus have I given you five steps, as s*many links in a chain, all which make up theunpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost. It isa wilful and malicious opposing of the knowntruth, joined with final apostacy. Thus haveI shewed you, as plain as I can, what this “ sin,unto death” is.Secondly. The next thing to be consideredis. That all other sins and blasphemies, whatso¬ever may be forgiven. Be our sins ever so greatand many, though we be the vilest wretchesthat ever lived, yet there is hope of pardon uponrepentance. Manasseth was the vilest wretchthat ever we read of, yet he repented and waspardoned. Also. Mary Magdalen was the chiefof sinners, for out of her came seven devils ; yetbecause she loved much, much was given her.A man may be a whoremonger, an adulterer,and work witchcraft, and deal with familiar; spirits, and yet, at last, he may repent and besaved. And yet I have heard talk of some thatare so foolish as to take the sin of fornication foran unpardonable sin, from God’s own words, inthe fourth commandment : “I, the Lord thyGod, am a jealous God, visiting the sins of thefa'Kers upon the children, unto the third andfomth generation.” From whence they say,that children that are base born, are not savedunto the third and fourth generation. But thisis a most erroneous interpretation of God’ sword :It is those that hate him, and continue in hatingni? n .©f him, that he will inflict their iniquities upon:For fornicators and adulterers themselves mayrepent and be saved; much more the children,who knew nothing, nor could help nothing :For Christ, with his own mouth, tells the Scribesand Pharisees, Matth. xxi. 31. that the publicansand harlots shall enter into the kingdom ofheaven before them: For there is no sin butwhat is pardonable, except the sin against theHoly Ghost. But,Thirdly, This sin against the Holy Ghostis alone the sin unto death : that is, a sin un¬pardonable, never to be forgiven, neither in thisworld, nor in the world to come . Not becausethe merits of Christ are not sufficient to pardon it,for this sin, as well as other sins, is but finite,whereas the merits of Christ are infinite.Object. What is the reason then that this sincannot be forgiven ?Answ, This question brings me to thefourth thing considerable. Do but mind mea little, and I will, as plain and as clear as I can,tell you what the reason is.This sin is called the sin against the HolyGhost, not because it is sin against the personof ^the Holy Ghost, for so is all sin against hisperson ; but it is called the sin against theHoly Ghost, because it is against the office andwork of the Holy Ghost. Now, every one ofthe three persons have their particular work:iwiiy wt*n inThe wo»k of the Father is to create ; the workof the Son is to redeem lost sinners.; and thework of the Holy Ghost is to enlighten, con¬vince^ sanctify and convert them. Now, a mancommitting this unpardonable sip against theHoly Ghost, rejects all this work of the spirit.Now for- p man to be thoroughly enlightenedby the Holy Ghost, tha the Comes to know theevil of'sin, and his lost and undone conditioewithout Christ, and that nothing but the meritnof Christ can save him : and, notwithstanding swilfully and maliciously oppose him, and thework of the spirit, and refuse to be beholdento him for salvation; how for such a one, I say,to be forgiven is utterly impossible. .Object, But why is it smpossible? Nothingis impossible with God ?Object. Nothing is impossible, with God,that does not imply a contradiction: but thatGod will forgive the sin commited against theHoly Ghost, .implies a contradiction : For, howcan he ha've a pardon given him, that utterlyrejects it! As, for instance.A man, through ignorance, may deny Christ,(nay, maliciously fall from the profession of thetruth info all kind of wickedness, as did St. Paul,and the Jews th«t crucified Christ) yet not fal¬ling against light and knowledge, there is roomfor the Holy Ghost to work upon him, to en¬lighten him, and to convince him of his folly,and so make way for conversion. Buc for a man.t: i9 n| ien he in once enlightened by the Holy Ghost,!d has had some foretaste of the joy s of heaven('d then, a last, utterly opposing this illurninat-work of the spirit, wilfully and maliciouslyPall away, and so to reject the spirit’s renew-work ; alas 1 then the Holy Ghost has done,has nothing more then that he can work ini ; for this wtetched creature has utterly re¬ed him, his enlightening work* his convincingk, his sanctifying work; he has utterly re¬ed Christ’s pardon, heaven and all ! Now,‘poor wretch is past all hopes of mercy, alles of pardon! Nay, for such a one we arendded to pray, as you see in the verse whereofy text is a part. Now, Christ prayed for them3t maliciously crucified him, Luke xxvii. 34.ying. Father, forgive .them, for they knowit what they do.” Alas ! they knew not whatey. were doing ; “For had they known it, theyudd not have crucified1 the Lord of glory,”Cor. ii 8. But if they'*had Knrwn, and yetive crucifiecr him, ‘Chyist'would no1! have spent 1s’ breath td’pfay for tliem ; foC it'would haveten utterly in ^vain : For, when a man hasmmitted this unpardonable sin, neither theflying in heaven nor earth cen do him anyod ; for the text saith, “ There is a sinito death.”I shall conclude with a few words of applica-on ; and I will be as short as possible, lest thisiscourse]should be too large for so small a bock[ere is.C 20 3First. A word of comfort.Secondly. A word of counsel.First, A word of comfort. It may be thatby hearing and reading of this terrible discourse,your hearts begin to ache for fear that you havecommitted this unpardonable sin : But I thinkI have sufficiently proved to you what it is; andI tell you again, that there are few who cancommit it ; nay, there are millions that are tor¬mented in hell, yet never committed this sin :Nay, farther, an ignorant Protestant may thro’1weakness, and out of a slavish fear, turn Papistand renounce his profession, and yet not committhis unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost:For doing it out of ignorance'and infirmity)there may be matter left for the Holy Ghost,:to work upon whereby he may yet be convertedand saved. Consider this also, If you are afraidyou have committed it, and wish that you hadnot committed it, and would not commit it, if itwere to do again ; then, that is a true sign youhave not committed it.Secondly. I must conclude all withof counsel.; word'lli. Watch very diligently against all sin ; JBut, above all, take special heed of those sins dthat come near to the sin’against the Holy Ghost; Jand they are these : Hypocrisy, taking only the*; 'C 21 1•utward profession of religionj and so dissemb¬ling and mocking of God ; sinning wilfully,against conviction of concience, and againstgreat light and knowledge; and sinning pre-•gumptuously, with an high hand. These sins,though none of them are the direct sin againstthe Holy Ghost, yet they come very near to it ;therefore take special heed of them, lest they,in time should bring you to the committing ofthat unpardonable sin. And,2. Labour to be sincere in religion ; andby a true faith ingraft yourselves in Christ; forthey that be in Christ, can never commit thisunpardonable sin ; For know this, that amongall the sins committed by fallen mankind, thereis one sin that is a t: sin unto death/' which isthe unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost ;which whosoever commits, hath no forgiveness,neither in tins world, nor in the world to come.Consider what hath been said, and theLord give you understanding-END OF THE SERMON.C 22 3EXTRACTFrom the Writings of a French Protesant Mini*ster, on the Revelation of the Aposlel John.Published in the year 1685*After that we have explained all the visionsin this Revelation, we are not to forget toenquire the reason why Jesus Christ judgedit convenient to direct it, together with theEpistles, particularly to the Seven Churchesof Asia; Ephesus, Symrna, Pregamus, ThyatiraSardia, Philadelphia and Laodicea.r. The number 7 is a mysterious numberthrough this whole Book: It signifieth theuniversality and the fulfilling of all times asappeareth by the consideration of the 7 Sealsthe 7 Trumpets, and the 7 Vials; becausethat number denoteth the whole train of thingswhich the seals, Trumpets, and Vials, foretellare to come to pass till the very destruction ofthe Antichristian empire,2. Christ appeareth, having in his hand7 Stars, which are the seven Pastors of theseven Churches ; and walking in the midst of7 Candlesticks, which are the seven Churches,that we have mentioned. But why Seven ?Doth he not promise to be the protector blitof these seven Pastors and the Overseer andDefender but of these Churches ?3. There is a conformity between thatvision in the first Chapter, and those of theseven Seals, and of the opened Book; For wet 23 3mere find the same pomp the Sound' of a Trum-;Jet, and the glorious presence of our Svaiourfp the midst ot his Church; and, withal hejlppeareth there walking in the midst of thefever Candlesticks, and sitting in the midst of(She four living Creatures and the four-and-jlwenty Elders: By which conformity, we arejtiven to undei stand, that this first vision is ofijqual weight and of an equal extension, withill the other ; and that this of the 7 Churches(leached to the end of the world, as all thefollowing together do.ii 4. Jesus Christ saith to John, ver. 19.I'Write the things which thou hast seen, andthe things which are, and the things whichfehall be hereafter.” Which is as much as ifJhe had said. Wiite, not only things whichjconcem the Churches that are mentioned, andIwhith ought to be instructed as these are ; butwhich also concern all Churches to the end ofthe world and whereof the seven that are namedare a model and type. *The State of the Church of EphesuS dothlively represent the condition of the Primitivewhere Truth prevailed, and where, at. the last,the decay of Charity became a disposition anda step to a more doleful state. Whosoever wellconsiders'what is said to the Church olTiphesus,will therin find the condition of the PiimitiveChurch painted forth to the lifeTHATofSymrna represents the stateof the churchduring the fourth and Fifth Ages; wherein Ar-fH:fih), f ' ,ft1. t■( M )ianjsm had the upper hand, and wherein tlorthodox were outragiousJy persecuted. This the Tribulation often days, wherewith Symrnjis threatned; not the Ten Persecutions, of whiclDiocfesian’s w^s the last.That of Pregainusdiath a reference to the tim<when+Antichr'ut sitteth in the Temple if Goaand when the Church is hardly visible, througljher dwelling as the Church of Pregamus did]where salan had his throneTh ATof Thyatira hath a great conformity to theCondition of the Church when Antichrist both be¬gan to fall, and began to raise himself again : Ac-icording^to. the Testimony given by our Saviourto that nf^hyatira, e: Thou hasf not the doctrineof JezghfOj hnd thou hast not known the depthsof Satan,”That of Philadelphia is a protraiture of thatof the Church when she shall be perfectly Rerformed, when Sioni shall be perfectly rc-establislW' ed, when the alone Key of David sbaJhfiPfn andshut.; + when the voice of Jpsus Christ sli^il bqpetlfictly followed,and that both with respect an-*o,to manners, uiiti to - faith. This is the state^tyhefc-in fhe Cluuch toll be during the time of■the Miilennian reign.Lastly, That of Laodicea is a mirror, where¬in we may behold the state of the Churchtowards the end of the world, when zeal shahbecome Cold, Charity scarce to be found, andcorruption shall .aboutui. nfld be universal, .andthereby draw upon the.wiirld.that deluge of fire,which shall give a reno\£aiiun.unto it.*' l . % \ ■\\ ~ H.;*