Hodgeofthe MillORAMOld Woman Clothedin Grey.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,The STAFFORDSHIRE TRAGEDY.JENNY DANG the WEAVER,The PLEASURES of WOOING.OCH HEY, JOHNNY LAD.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,[Ng. ao.] Saltmarket, i3og.( 2 )An OLD WOMAN clothed in GREf.AN old woman clothed in grey,had a daughter was charming and young,"But {he was deluded away,■by Roger’s falfe flattering tongue.With whom fhe often had beenabroad, in the meadows and fields JHer belly grew up to her chin,her fpirits funk down to her heels.At -length flic began for to puke:her mother, polTtffcd with fear.She gave her a gentle rebuke, _and cry’d. Daughter, a ord in your earI doubt ) ou’ve been playing the tool,which many call. Hey Ding a Du g,Whv did you not follow my rule,und tie your two toes in a ftnng iO Mother! your 'counfei I took,but vet I was never the near; ^He won my heart with a foft .00^,and his word fo enchanted my ear.That \ our precepts 1 focn did foig >and wovld have hts fcope *It is but a folly to fret, ,,,Ms done, and it cannot be help d. .Then who is the father of it ? ?come tell me without more delay .For now I am juft in the fit,to go and hear what he will fay* £C 3 >■ It is Roger the clamfel repiy’c! :he call’d me his dear pretty bird,And laid that 1 ihrouid be his Bride*:but he was not fo good as his word^What! Roger, that lives at the mill!yes, verily, Mother, the Tame,Whit! Roger, that lives at the mill !I’ll hop to him, tho’ I be l ime.Go fetch me my crutches with fpeed,and bring me my fpechicles too ;A lecture to him 1 will read,fliall ring his ears quite thro’ and throWith that fhe went hoping away,and went to young- Hodge of the mill.On whom ihe her,crutches did lay,and cry’d, Ypudiave ruin’d my girl.By getting her dear Maiden-head ;’tis true, yen can no way deny :Therefore I advife you to wed,.and make her as honed as LThen, what will you give me, quoth Hoif I take your Daughter off hand ?Will you make me the heir of your lodg;your homes, your money, and land ?With every burn and ploughs,your cattle and money aifo ?If fo, I will make her my ipoafe ;fpeak up, Are you willing or no fThen- Goody •ook Hodge by the hand,h;t it be ter to have and vj hold,I will make you the heir of my land,my houfes, my filver, and gold.Make her but your honoured wife,and you fhal! be Lord of my {lore,When e’er I furrender my life,in cafe it were forty times more.The bargain was prefently ftruck,they weddedand this being done,The old woman wifh’d them good luck,being proud of her Daughter and Son.Then, hey for a girl or a boy ;young Peg look’d as big as a duchefs jThe old woman caper’d for joy,and danc’d them a jigg in her crutches.‘The STAFFORDSHIRE TRAGEDY.NE A R Burton-town in Stafford-fhire,There liv’d a farmer’s daughter fair j.On a game-keeper as wo find,This damfel fhe fixed her mind.Three years and more had courted been,At lafl Ihe prov’d with child to him ;By her home hours in tears were Ipent,When he to others courting went.Ode ev’ning fhe went to the park,She met her love with aking heart,She Lid, O dear, What fhall I do ?You know I am. with Child by you. 'I ‘w ill not marry } et, faid he,For while I’m Tingle, I am freeAnd thus from's fide a durk he drew.He pierc’d her heart and body throw.He cut her up immediately,jlnto her womb the babe did cry,iAnd there he laid her among the thorns,And the fweet baby in her arms.The neighbours that did hear her cryrThey came to her immediately.There they found her ’mong the thorns.With her babie crawling in her arms.The neighbours flocked all around.And quickly who fhe was they found ^And told her Father and Mother dear,Which caufed them Ihed many a tear.They took the man before it was long,And bound him in a prifon llrong ;And foon he was condemn’d to die.Upon the gallows tree fo high.And when the gallows-tree he rode.He -own’d that he the murder did ;And four of them in one grave did ly,And for the murder I rouifc die.O if 1 could their life reltore,Ten thonfand worlds I’d give therefore :From wicked wavs I. would remove,That I might die in peace and love.May this be a warning to mankind.In courfhip that they be not blind :I promis’d marriage but did not wed.The gallows proves my marriage-bed.r 6 JJENNY DANG the WEAVER*A I V/illy’s’ wedding on the green,j the laffes, bonny witches,W ere a* dreit oul in aprons clean,and braw white Sunday’s mutches,Aukl Maggy baud the lads tak’ tent, •but Jock wou’d not believe her,But ^pon the fool his folly kent,for Jenny dang the weaver. Jenny, etc*At ilka kintry dance or reel,wi’ her he would be bobbing;When (he fat down, he fat down,and to her would be gabbing.Where’er fiie gaed baith but and ben,the cuif wad never leave her,Ay kcckling like a clocking hen,but Jenny dang the weaver. Jenny, etc.Quoth he, my lafs, to fpeak my mind,in troth I need not fwither,You’ve,bonny een, and if you’re kindIfe never leak anither.I?e hum’d and hand, the lafs cry’d peughvand baud.the cuif no deave her;Syne fnap’d her fingers, lap and leyigh,and dang the filly weaver.Chor. And Jenny ckng, dang, dang,Jenny dang the weaver;Syne fnapt.hcr fingers, lap and leugh;and dang the filly weaver*I 7 1■ "•—«r.i'.*rse&TgB?r>m+**-, ,T«e PLEASURES of WOOING.FArewel to the pleafures of wooing.The bank and the lilly fo gay,Till once ray poor heart tvas deluded,And by a falfe -man hole away.Young women beware of delufion.And be not o’er fond of young men ;For foon they’l! prove your confufion,If once your afTe&ion they .gain.for firfr they’ll fhorten your apron,A.nd then they’ll fhorten your gown.But wqes me for ray bonny ladle,When once fhe begins to look down.I hey ll fill up your health in a bumper.And caufe the whole cup to go round,And they will drink it over and over,And choofe a true lover the morn.But wots me that e’er I believ’d them,For oftentimes they charmed me ;They robb’d me of all my treafure.My Heart and my Virginity.Young men they are glorious creatures.It s a pity fo faTe they were ay.They’re fickle like weather in W.nter,They’ll heat and they’ll cool in a day.W hat need I tell it over and over,What I in my bofoin do find ;Tlrey’ll wheedle and cox till you’re ru:n*4Atld then all their pleafurs does end.[ 8 ]OCH HEY, JOHNNY LAD.0 C II hey, Johnny lad.Ye’re no fae land’s ye loud a been ;Och hey, Johnny lad!Ye didna’ keep yojur try ft yeftreen;1 'waited lang befide the wood,Sae wae an* weary a’ my lane ;Och hey, Johnny lad !It was a-vaefu* idght yeftreen.I looked by the whinny knov. eyI locked by the firs fae green,I looked o'er the fpunkie howe,-An’ ay I thought'ye wad<ha*e been jThe ne*er a fuppef croft my craig.The ne’er a fleep ha? closT my een.Oh hey, Johnny lad !Ye’re no’ fae kind's ye foud a been.* Gin ye was waitin’ in the wood,6 Its l was waitin’ by the thorn,‘ I thought it was the place we fet,< An’ waited mailt till dawning morn ;‘ But be ua’ vest, my bonny lafa,* Let my waiting flan’ for thine :‘ We’ll awa’ to Birkton-Shaw, ^* An’ feck the joys we tint ye ft teen.*GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,j]No. 20.J Saltmarkit, 1805.