COMICAL SAYINGSOFPADDY FROM CORK,WITHHis Coat Button'd Behind..Being an elegant Cqnference between EnglishTara, and Irish Teague; with ' Paddy'sCatechism, his opinion of Purgatory, the; State of the Dead; and his SupplicationI when a Mountain Sailor.ALSO,i A Creed for all Romish Believers.IN ALL ITS PARTS, CAREFULLY CORRECTF.B.STIRLING:Priced and^Sdd, tfholtsaU and Reiatl,by W. Macni*, Bookseller.Comical Sayings of Paddy from CorkPART I.Tom. Good morrow, Sir, this is a very cold day.Teag. Arra, dear honey, yesternight was a veijjcold morning.Tom. Well brother traveller of what nation art thon jTeag. Arra, dear shoy, I came frommyownkingdom,Tom. Why, I know that, hut where is thy kingdom J f,Teag. Allelieu dear honey, don’t you know Cork]in Ireland.Tom. Vou fool, Cork is not a kingdom bat a city.Teag. Then dear shoy, I’m sure it is in a kingdom."Tom. And what is the reason you have come: i,rand left your own dear country ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, by shaint Patrick, theyhave got such comical laws in our country, that theywill put a man to death in perfect health ; so to befree and plain with you, neighbour, I was obliged tocorae away, for I did not chnse to stay among stjeha people that can hang a poor man when they please,if he either steals, robs, or kills a man.' Tom. Ay, but I take you to be more of an honest'nan, than to steal, rob, or kill a man.Teag. Honest, I am perfectly honest, when I wa?hot a child, my mother would have trusted me with)a house full of mill-stones.Tom. What was the matter, was you guilty ofnothingTeag. Arra, dear honey, I did barm to nobodybut fancied an oM gentleman’s.gun, and afterwardsmade it my own.Tom. Vety well, boy, and did you keep it so ?Teag. Keep it, I would have kept it with all my if,,heart while I lived, death itself could not have part¬ed us, but the old rogue, the gentleman, being a jus¬tice of peace himself, had me tried for the rights ofit, and how I came by it, and so book it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourself witheuthpunishment ?Teag. Arra dear shoy, I told bio a parcel1 of lie*i!4 they wonW not believe me ; for I snid that I gotfrom my father when it was a little pistol, and fd kept it till it had grown a gnn, and was design*i; to use it well until it bad grown a big cannon,d then sold it to the military. They all fell aIjighiug at me as 1 bad been a fool, and bade mei ii borne to my mother and clean the potatoes,mom. Huwlongisitsinceyou left your own country(ueag. Arra, dear honey, I do not mind whether ^i a fortnight or four months, but I think myself,is a long time ; they tell me my metber is dead, ice, but 1 wont believe it until I get a letter fromr own hand, for she is a very good scholar, sup-i lie she can neither write nor read.Tom. Was you ever in England before ?.'Teag. I that I was, and in Scotland too#in Tom. And were the}' kind to you when you was» Scotland ?riiCeagi They were that kind that they kick’t mylie for me, and the reason was because I wouldh:||l pay the whole of the liquor that was drunk iaDt. company, though the landlord and his two sonsn:.; mouthful about of it all, and I told tbem ittijis a trick upon travellers, first to drink biainuor, and then to kick him- out of doers.luTom. I really think they have used y»0 ad lyn. could you not beat them ?ifllTeag. That* what i did, beat them all to theirMilo contentment, bat there was on# of them strong-«jthan ice, who would l ave kified me, if tbe e-1 r-two had not polled me away, and I hadn for it, till his p^sioji was over ; then theymde us ('rink ar.d grte again ; we shook bands,Gijl made a bargain, never to harm other more :it this bargain did not last lortg, for, as T wa#Wising, his mouth, by shaint Patrick, 1 bit lus nose,iicli caused him te beat me very sore fofr my pains.tiCotn. Well Paddy, what calling was you whenijjlcotland ?Teag. Why sir, I was no business at aH, but tpido you call rfie green tree that’s like a whin buspeople makes a thing to sweep the house of it?lum. O yes, Paddy, they call it the broom.Teag. Ay, ay, you have it, I was*a gentlemat!b^oom, only waited on bis horses, and washed t'ldishes for the cook ; and when my master iod»faotfting, I went behind with the dogs.Tom. O yes, Paddy, it was the groom you me»:But I fancy you was cook’s mate, or kitchen beTeag. Mo, no, it was ths broom that I was*if I had staid there till now, I might have been ajtfenced as high as my master, for the ladies' icy')me so well, that they laughed at n:e.Tom. They might admire yon for a fool. [Teag. What, sir, do you imagine that I am irti/ool ? no, no, »iy master asked counsel of me in Hbis matters, anil I always gave him a reason Mevery thing *, I told him one morning, that he w4ijtoo soon to the hunting, that the hares were not gout of their beds, and neither the barking of hor*•nor the blowing of dogs could make thefin rise,was such a cold morning th^t night; so they all rtaway that we catched, whou we did not see thtfTSheH my master told my words to several gentlim^n that was at dinner with him, and they admirrue for want of judgment, for my head was all ollump ; adding, they were going a-fishing along wimy roaster and me in the afternoon ; but I told tl*■fchat it was a very unhappy thing for any man tojajiunting in the morning, and a-fishing in the aftflfljJbn ; they would try it, but they had better st*»t borne, for it ceme on a roost Iftrible fine night,stentb west rain, and even-down wind $ so the fish!got all below the water to keep them dry from ti«hower, rfnd we catched them all hut got none. ITom. How long did you serve thatgeutleroan Pad! •Teag. Arra, dear Wey, I wap him f|'L ' * ^ion?. For wliat did Lg beat f6u ? was it for yocridness and foolish trices •i Ceag. Dear shoy, it was not; but for bein? toofuisitiva, and going sharply about bu3iuess, First,sent me to the post office, to inquire if there, we reill' letters for him ; so when I came there, said I,ithere any letters here for my master to-d'.y ?«-rpn hey asked who was my master ; s:r, said I,s very bad manners in you to ask any gentleman’s:ne •, at this they laughed, mocking me, and saidy could gave me none, if I would not tell myisber’s same; so I returned to my master, andI him the impudence of the fellow, who would: B me no letters unless I would tell bln* your, re, master. My master at this flew in a passion,I kicked me down stairs, saying, go you rogue,M tell my name directly, how can the gentlemani i letters wj>e« he knows not who is asking forn. Then I returned and told my master’s name,drey told there was one for him, I looked at it,g very small, and asking the price of it, theyme it was sixpence ? sixpence, said I, will-yousixpence for that small thing, and selling big-ones for twopence ; faith I am not such a big; you think to cheat me now, this is not a con-nable way of dealing, I’ll acquaint my masteri it first; so I came and told my master l/bwwould have sixpence for his letter, and wasing bigger ones for twopence ; he took up myand broke his cane with it, calling me a thou-1 fools, saying, the man was more just than toany thing but the right for it •, hut L was suree was none of them right, baying and sellingdear penny-worths. So I came again for mysixpence letter ; and as the fellow was shufflingugh a parcel of them, seeking for it again, toe the bast ot a dear market, f pict up two, and-I comes to my master, thinking be wopld bejsed with wfiat I had done j now, said I, master,I think I have p:n a t;Belling the letter to , jo. VV hu* have you'done' ?I :I have only taken other two leihos : here’s one loin ■you master, to help vour J. u peno -worth, and I’.Bsend the other to my moii er to see whether she begj;dead or alive, for she’sal es eftgry I don’t write to*j 1her. I had not the word well sposen, till he got! *up his stick and be <.t me .hr • for it, and sent ftiet ‘hack to the fellows again with the two. I had very! :il^will to go, but nebody would buy them of meJ rTom. Well, Paddy, f thin!- you was to blame, antiyour master too, for he ought to have taught yoiwjhow to go about these affairsj and not beat you so# 1Teag. Arra dear honey, l had too much wit oPjpipy own to be teached by him,, or any body elsefPhe began to instruct me after that, how I shouldfrserve the table, and such nasty things as those : on(#j-'night I took ben a roasted fish in one hand, and illpiece of bread in the other ; the old gentleman wtmso saucy he would not take it, and told me I shouldbring nothing to him without a trencher below itA 1'lihe same night as he was going to bed, he called; ■for his slippers and pish-pot, so elapt a trench rbelow the pish-pot, and another below the slipprs, ■and ben I goes, one in every hand ; no sooner diff! ")ek jyr.n thfcnri fellows, forI enter the room, Ilian he threw the. pish pot at me,which broke both my head and the pish-pot at oneWow ■, now, said I, the <Wil is in my master alto-;gether, for what he commands at one time he coun¬termands at another. Next day l went with him tothe market to buy a sack of potatoes, I went entoithe potatoe-tnonger, and ask’d what he took for the;full of a Scot’s cog, he weighed them in, he asked!no less than fourpence ■, f. orpence, said I, if I were:but in Dublin, 1 could get the double of that fornqthing, and m Cork and Lunsaie far cheaper;,tiffim is but small tilings like pease, said I, but the:potatoes in my country is as big as your head, finemeat, all made up in blessed mouthfuls ; the potatoejreJiant called me a liar, and nty master called! a fool, so the one fell a kicking me, and the o-r a-coffing me, I was in such bad bread amongijm, that I called myself bath a liar and a fool toI off alive.'Tooi. And how did you carry your potatoes home|m the market ?iiiFeag. Arra dear shoy, I carried the horse andtm both, beside* a big loaf, and two bottles of; lie j for I put tlio old horse on my backhandjve the potatoes before me, and when I tied the:H to the loaf, I bad nothing to do but to carry; bottle in my hand : but bad luck to the way aslume home, for a nail out of the heel of my foot(tang a leak in my brogue, which pricked the veryl |e, bruised the skin, and made my brogue itselfi nlood, and I having no hammer by me, but aibhet I left at home, I bad to beat down the nail* the bottom of the bottle ; and by the book, dearit broke to pieces, and scattered the wine inmouth.dm. And how did you wcompence your masterthe loss of the bottle of wine ?eag. A-rra dear shoy, t had a mind to cheat himmyself too, for I took the bottle to a black-il,ijt,h, and desired him to mend it, that I might goislhe butcher and get it full of bloody water, butold me he could not work in any thing but.steeliron. Arra, said I, if l were in my own kiog-i, I could get a blacksmith who would maks a*iele out of a stone, and a stone out of nothings.And how did you trick yourr.vister out of it.ag. Why the old rogue began to chide me, ask-e what way 1 broke it, then I held up the otherigh as my head, and let it fall to the ground on, which broke it nil in pieces likewise v nowI, master that’s the way, and he beat me verytily until I had to shout out mercy and jnurder£2 .8Tom. Why did you not leave him whom he ITen s» bady ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I could never think to leavihim while I could eat, he gave me so many goovictuals, and (Promised to prefer me to be his owhone-picker. But by shaint Patrick, I bad to runaway with roy life or all was done, else I had losmy dear shoul and body too by him, and thenearns home much poorer then 1 went away. Tingreat big bitch dog, which was my master’s tesbeloved, put bis head into a pitcher, to lick out somemilk, and when it tvas in he could not £et it putand I to save the pitcher got the hatchet and cut o;the dog’s head, and then I had to break the pitcbeto get out the head ; 6y this I lost both dog anthe pitcher. My master hearing of this swore h(¥ ;•would cut the head off me, for the poor dog was! ><made useless, and could not see to fo'low any bodyfdr wapf of his eyes. And when I heard of this, t :ran away with my own head, for if I had wanted it.I. had lost rny eyes too, then I would not have seep'the road to Port Patrick, through G!en-nap ; but' '>by sbair.t Patrick I came home alive in spite of themItTom. 0 rarely done, Paddy, yop behaved likeman! but what is the reason that you Irish peopleswear always b,y shainf Patrick iArra dear honey, be was the best shaint i|Jthe world, the father of all good people in the king*!dom, he has a great kindness for an Irishman, whenhe hears them calling on his name.Tom. But, Paddy, is shaint Patrick yet alive 1 inTeag. Aira di*ar honey, I don’t know whether hebe dead or alive, but it is a long time since theykiiJ’d him ; the people all turn’d heathens, but hewould not change his profession, and was going tcrun the countsy with it, and for taking the gospel'away to England, so the barbarous lories ef DobJin cutted off his head ; and he swimrned over t.England, and carried its head in his teeth.i9PART If.Tom. How dii vou get safe out of Scotland ?Teag. By the law dear honey, whom I rttmeito Port Patrick, and saw my ewn kingdom, I knewI was safe at borne, hut I was clean dead, and al-imost drowned before i could get riding over the■water ■, for I with nine or ten passengers more, leptin a little young boat, having but four men dwell¬ing in a little house, in the one end of it, which wasill thacked with deals : and after they had pulledap her tether-stick, and laid her long halter d.ver■ aier mane, they pulled up a long sheet, like threei ;<air of blankets, to the riggen of the hojise, afldhe wind blew in that, which made her gallop up; ,me hill and d wn another, till I thought she wouldKave run to the world's end.Tom. Well Paddy, and where did you go.wheni.l.ou came to Ireland again ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, and where did I gout to my own dear cousin, who was now becomeery rich by the death of the old buck his father 5ho died but few weeks hafore .1 went over, ande parish had to bury him out of pity, it did notost him a farthing.Tom. And what entertainment did you get there ?Teag. O my dear shoy, £ was kindly used as ano-e,r gentleman, and would have staid there’ longough, but whe.n a man is poor his friends thinkttle ot him : I told him I was going to see my (fre¬er Harry ; Harry, said he, Harry is dead | deadid 1, and whojdli'd him ? Why said he death 5lie lieu, dear lioney, and where did he kill him,id I ; in his bed, says he. Arra dear honey, saidil, ii he had been upon Newry mountains with hisogues on, and his broad sword by his side, all,theaths in Ireland had not k%!ed him : O that irnpu-;nt fellow death, if he had let him alone till he diedr want of butter-milk and potatoes, I am sure hed lived aft the days of his life.Am110Tom. In all your travels when abroad, did you ne¬ver see none of your countrymen to inform you ofWnat happened at home concerning your relations ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I saw none but Toro Jack,one. day in the street ; but when I came to him, it;was not him, but one just like bim.'I otn. On what account did you go a travelling ?Teag. Why a decraiting sergeant listed me to bea captain, and alter all advanced me no higher thana soldier itself, but only he called me bis dear coun¬tryman recruit ; for I did not Know what the regi-.ment was when l saw them, I thought they wereall gentlemen’s sons, and collegioners, when I saw ■a box like a bible upon their bellies ; until I saw G.‘;for King George upon it, and R. for God bless him,ho, ho, said I, I shan’t be long here.Tom. O then Paddy yoa deserted from them ?;Teag* That’s what I did, and run to the mountainslike a buck, <and ever since when t see any soldiers'I close my eyes, lest they should look and know me.Toro. And what exploits did you when youwas a soldier ?Teag. Arra dear hone}', I killed a man.Tom. And how did you do that?Teag. Aria dear honey, when he dropt hisisword 1 diew mine, and advanced boldly to him,,and then cutted nil his toot.. Tom. O then what a big fool was you : for;you ought lim to have cut off Ids bead.Teag. Arra dear shay, his head was cutted offbefore I engaged him, else.I had not done it.Tom. O then Paddy you acted like a fool : butyou are not such a big fool as many take you to:be, you might pass for a philosopher.Teag. A fulusipher, my father was a fulusipher,'besidrs he was a man under great authority byjaw, condemning the just and clearing the guiltyDo you know how they call the horse’s mother;Tom. Why they call her a mare.5 Teag. A mare, ay, very well minded, my fatherliras a mare in Cork,l Tom. And what riches Was left you by thei 'ieath of your mother ?1 Teag. A bad luck to her own barren belly for:ihe lived in great plenty, and died in great pover-, y ; devoured op all or she died, but two liens,und a pockful of potatoes, a poor estate for anririsli gentleman, in faith] Toni. And what did you make of the hens,md potatoes, did you sow them ?IToag. Arra dear ehoy, 1 sowed them in myelly, and sold the hens to a cadger.J Tom. What business did your mother follow after?J Teag. Greatly in the merchant way.1 Tom. And what sort of goods did she deal in ?T Teag. Dear honey, she went through the coun«try and sold small fishes, onions and apples jjijought liens and eggs and then hatched them her-.felf. I remember of a long-necked cock she had,; f an over-sea brood, that stood on the middenInd picked all the stars out of the north-wriest, soYpey were never so (thick there since..i lom. Now Paddy, that’s a bull surpasses all :*ut is there none of that cock’s offspring alive bow ?! Teag. Arra dear shoy, I don’t think there are,iijut it is a pity but they had, for they would fly with<|ieople above the sea, which would put the use offillips out of fashion, and nobody be drowned at all.I. lom. \ cry well Paddy, but in all your travelsid you ever get a wife ?i leag. Ay that s what 1 did, and a wicked wife too jid my dear shoy, I can’t tell whether she is gone!< i Purgatory, or the parish of Pig-trantrum; for shei dd me she should certainly die the first opportunity> iie could get, as this present evil world was not3| oith lhe waiting on, so she would go and see what1 iod tltings is in the. world to come j so when thatdrover called the Fever, came raging over thewliple kingdom, she \v(leaving me nothing but two motherless children.own as any doctor in the kingdom could give her.Tom. O you fool, that is not what I mean : you i<ought to have brought the doctor to feel her pulse, iand let blood of her if he thought it needful. iTeag. Yes, that’s what I did, for I ran to the. 1doctor whenever she died, and sought something for ia dead or dying Woman ; the old foolish devil was|j;:at his dinner, and began to ask me same dirtyl *questions, which I answered distinctly.Tom. And what did he ass Paddy ?Teag. Why, he asked me, How did my wife go totstool? to which he answered, the same way that other;people go to a chair ; no, said he, that's not what «1 mean, how does she purge? Arra, Mr Dsctor, risaid I, all the fire in Purgatory wont purge herclean ; for she has both a cold and stinking breath. 4Sir, said he, that is not what I ask you ; whether bdoes she shit thick or thin? Ana, dear Doctor, sail :1, it is sometimes so thick and hard, that you maytake it in your hand,and cut it like a piece of cheese tror pudding, and at other times you may drink it, }>cr sup it with a spoon. At this he flew into a most ;terrible rage, and kicked me down stairs, and wouldgive m# nothing to her, but called me a dirty va¬gabond for speaking of shit before ladies.Tom. And in what good order did you bury your in■wife when she died ?Teag. O my dear shoy, she was buried in ail man- ij.ner of pomp, pride and splendour ; a fine coffin withcords in it, and within the coffin along with her- iself, slie got a pair of new brogues, a penny candlea good hard-headed old hammer, with an Irish six¬penny piece, to pay her passage at the gate, andwhat more could she look for. ‘ . .-UsTom. O but Paddy, you ought to have gone to adoctor, and got some pills and physic for her.Teag. By shaint Patrick, I had as good a pill of my Tt13Tom. I really think ycu gave her enough along.ith her, but you ought to have cried for her, if itlas no more but to be in the fashion.'I, Teag. And why shoufd I cry without sorrow?tihen we hired two criers to cry all the way beforeT to keep her in the flyshion.niTom. And what do they cry before a dead woman ?r Teag. Why they cry the common cry, or funeralmient that is used in or Irish country.) i Tom. And what manner of cry'is that Paddy ?Teag. Dear Tom, if you don’t know I’l^fel! you,ihen any dies, there is a number of criers goes be-ire, saying, Luff, fuff, fou, allelieu, dear honey,hat aileth thee to die! it was not for want of>od butter-milk and potatoes,PART III.ism. Well Paddy, and what did you de when ysOurife died ?Teag. Dear honey, what would 1 do ; do youdnk I was such a big fool as to di« too, 1 am sureI had I would net have got fair play when I am•t so old yet as my father was when he died.Tom. No Paddy, it is not that I mean, w'as yourry, or did you weep for her ?Teag. Weep for her, by sbaint Patrick I wouldi »t weep nor yet be sorry, suppose my own mo-ler and all tbe women in Ireland had died sevenBiiarS before 1 was born./J Tom. What did you do with your children whenl>. e died ?J, leag. Do you imagine I was such a big fool asYiry my children alive along with a dead woman:rra, dear honey, we always commonly give no¬ting along with a dead person, but an old shirt, ainding sheet, a big hammer, with a long cancA,e,id an Irish silver threepenny piece.Tom. Dear Paddy, and do they make of all,ese tilings ?A014-Ii kTeag. Then, Tom, since you are so inquisitiveyou must go ask tlie priest.kT om. VVhatdidyounmkeofjottrcliildrenthenPaddy,Teag. And what should I make of them, do youimagine that I should give them into the hands ofi ;the butchers, as they had been a parcel of younghogs ; by sbaint Patrick I had more unnaturalityin me, than to put them in an hospital as vthers do, 7Tom. No, I suppose you would leave thenjwith your friends ?Teag. Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is soraetimeiworse than a profest enemy, the best friend 1 evehad in the world was my own pocket while my mney lasted, but I left two babes between tbpriest’s door and the parish church, becausethought it was a place of mercy, and then set out;for England in quest of another fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night with] ■your friends ere you came away ?Teag. Ana dear honey, I had no friends inthe woiid but an Irish naif crown, and I would!have been very sorry to parted with such a dearpocket-companion, at such a lime.Tom. I fancy, Paddy, you’ve come off withwhat they cal! a moon-shine fiiting.Teag. You lie like a thief now, for I did not see sun,,moon, nor stars, all the night then, for I set out IronuCork at the dawn of night, and I had travelled twenty1miles all but twelve, before gloaming in the morning.Tom. And where did you go to take shipping?Teag. Arra d*ar honey, I came to a country village:called Dublin, as big a city as any market-town in all!1England, where I got myself aboard of a little young:boat, with a parcel of feUows, and a long leather bag,I supposed tli'Cm to be tinkers, Until 1 asked what!they carried in that leather-sack ; they told me it!was the English mail they were going over with;;then said I, is the milns so scant in England, that;they must send over their corn to Ireland to grind it,;laIt.15le comical cunning fellows persuaded me it was so:icn I went down to a little house below the water,I ard by the rigg-back of the boat, and laid me downj j their leather-sack, where I slept myself almost totlath with hunger. And dear Tom to tell you plainlyi hen I awaked I (kid not know where I was, but(i ought I was dead and buried, for I found nothing(.:! around me but wooden walls and timber above.I'll Tom. And how did you come to yourself toriaow where you was at last?p : Teag. By the law, dear shoy, I scratched myf ead in An hundred parts, and then set me down to< link upon it, so 1 minded it was my wife that was1 i?ad, and not me, and that I was alive in the youngwhist -boat, with the fellows that tarries over ther uglish meal from the Irish milus.f.( Tom. O then Paddy, I am sure you was gladJ ihen you found yourself alive ?ITeag. Arra dear shoy, 1 was very sure l wasive, but I did not think to live long, so I thoughtwas better for me to steal and be bang’d, than toi we all my days, and die directly with hunger at last.;iTom. Had you no meat nor money along with you ?3] Teag. Arra dear shoy, I gave all the money to theilaptain of the house, or goodiuan of the ship, to carryi ie into the sea, or over to England, and when I was»ke to eat my old brogues for want of victuals I drewI ly hanger and cut the lock off the leather sack think-t Jig to get a lick of their meal j but ailelieu dear shoyjo found neither meal nor seeds, but a parcel of papersbud letters, a poor morsel indeed lor a hungry man.Tom. O then Paddy you laid down your honestyr nothing.Teag. Ay, ay, I was a great thief hut got no-ing to steal.Tom. And low did you come to get victuals at last?Teag. Allelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meatnd drink, death and life, aud every thing else wasut of mind, I had a thought but one.v» ' ■ JI16Tom. And what was that Padily ?Teag. To go down among the fishes and beccfmia whale ; then I would have lived at ease all mdays paving notliiug to do but to driuk salt wateiiand eat caller oysters(Tom. What, Paddy, was youliketobe drown’d againTeag. Ay, ay, drown’d, as cleanly drown’d as affsh, for the sea blew very loud, and the wind ranso high, that we were all cast away safe on shoreand not one of us drown’d at all.Tom. Where did you go when you came on shore ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was not able to go anwhere, you might cast a knot on my belly, I wa:so hollow in my middle, so I went into a gentleman’s house and told how the bad fortune t bad obeing drown'd between Ireland and the foot of bisgarden ; where we came all safe ashore. But alfthe comfort I got from him was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. Why he told me, if I had been a good boyat home, I needed not to have gone so far to pushmy fortune with an empty pocket-, to which I an¬swered, and what magnifies that, as long as I am agood workman at no trade at all.Tom. I suppose, Paddy, the gentleman wouldmake you dine with him ?Teag. I really thought I was, when I saw themroasting and skinning so many black chickens whichiwas nothing but a few dead crows they were going^to eat; ho, ho, said I, them is but dry meat at the.best, of all the fowls that flee, commend me to thewing of an ox : but all that came to my share was,fa pieco of a boil’d herring and a roasted potatoe, that;was the first bit of bread I. ever eat in England. ITom. Well Paddy, what business did you fel¬low after, in England, when you was so pour ?Teag. What sir do you imagine I was poor when:I came over on such an honourable occasion as t<Blist, and bring myself to no prefe^nent at all. As I;'L:17was an aWe bodiet! man in the face, I thought tobemade a brigadeer, a grandedeer, or a fuzeieer, orven one of them blew gowns that bolds the fierytiek. to the bung-hole ot the. big cannons, when theyet them off’, to fright away fhe French ; I was asiiure as no man alive ere I canse from Cork, the leastlureferroent I could get, was to be riding master tofi' regimentefniarir.es, or one ofthe black horse itself.I Tom. Well Paddy, you seem to be a very clever lit-a |le man, to be all in one. body,-what height are you ?3 Teag. Ana, dear shoy, I am five feet nothing| 11 but one inch.• tlTom. And where in England was it you li stedTeag. Arra, dear shoy, I was going through thatiHttle country village, the famous city of Chester, thestreets was very sore by reason ef the hardness of! uy feet, and lameness of my brogues, so 1 went butiery slowly across the streets, from port to port is airetty long way, but I being weary thought nothingf it: then the people came all crowding to me as [pad been a world’s wonder, or the wandering Jei^ ;t or the rain blew in my face, and the wind wetted(i 'll my belly, which caused me to turn the backsidenif my coat before, and my buttons behind, which'K/as a good safeguard to my body, and the starva¬tion of my naked body, ;v>d had not a good shirt,iji Tom. I am sure then, Paddy, they would takeitlou for a fool ?HTeag. No, no, sir, they admired me for my wisdom||>r I always turned my buttons before, when the windmlew on behind, but 1 wonder’d trow the people knewiky name and wdiere 1 came from : tor every one toldmother, that was Paddy from Cork : I snppo-e theynew my face by seeing by name in the Newspapers.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you fofiw in Chester ?Teag. Tobe sure I was not idle, working at no-iing at all, ti'.i a decruittng sergeant came to townith two or three fellows along with him, one. beat-Ing £>n a Eddie ami another playing on a drum, tos¬sing their airs thro’ the streets, as sf t:,ej were goingto be married. I sate them comtiag tioae but young.tMen: so to bring myself to no preferment at ail, I list¬ed for a soldier, for I wss too high for a gtamledeer.Tom. And whit listing money did you get, Paddy ?Teag. Aera dear shoy, I got five ihirteens and apair of English brogues ; the.gi ir «a atul the rest ofthe gold was sent to London, to the King, my mas¬ter, to buy me new shirts, a cockade, and commontreasing fcr my hat, they made ate swt'ar the mali¬cious oath of devilrie against the King, the colours,and my captain, telling me if ever I desert, and notrun away, that I should be shot, and then wbipt todeath through the regiment.Tom. No Paddy. It is first whipt and thenshot you mean.Teag. Arra dear shoy, it is all one thing at last,but it is best to be shot and then whipt, the clever¬est way to die I’ll warrant you.Tom. How much pay did you get P.sddv ?Teag. Do you know the little tall fat sergeantthat feed me to be a soldier ■Tom. And how should I know them I neversaw, you fool.Teag. Dear shoy, you nisy know him whether yousee him or not, for his faceis all bor’d in big holes withthe small-pox, his nose is the colour of a lobster-toe,and his chin hke a welt washen potatoe, he’s the big¬gest rogue in our kingdom, you I! know him when hecheats you and the wide world 5 and another markhe dights his mouth before he drinks, anti blows hisnose before he takes snuff; the rogue height me six¬pence a day, kill or no kill: and when I laid Sundayahd Saturday both together, and all the days in oneday, I can’t make a penny above fivepence of it.Toni. You should have kept an account, andask'd your arrears once a month.Teag. That’s what I did, hut lie read a pator-ISnostev out of his praysr book, wherein all our names9 are written j so mud’, for a stop-liolrl to my gun, toj (bucklers, to a puir of comical hart-hose, with lea-fther buttons fr«;n top to toe ; and worst of all, hen •would have no less than a penny a week, to a tloc-• dor ; avra, said T, I never had a sore finger, nor vetsiak toe, all the days of my life, then what have I> to do whh the doctor or the doctor to dp with me.' Tom. And did he mai-e you pay all these things ?Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better |>ay j he took me(before bis captain, who made me pay all was in bisjook. Arra, master captain, said !, you are a co¬nical sent of a fellow now, you might as well makeme pay for my coffin before I be dead, ''s to pay for' doctor before I be sick ; to which be answered in amssion, sirra, said he I have seen many a better manjuried without a coffin ; sir, said I, then I’ll have a:offin, die when I will, if there be as much wood in11 the world, or I shall not be buried at all. Then heail’d for the sergeant, saving, you sir, go and buyhat man’s coffin, and put it in the store till he die,nd stop sixpence a Week of his pay for it : No, no,ir, said I, I’ll rather die without a coffin, and seekone when I am dead, hut if you are for clipping ano-her sixpence, on my poor ua^'. ktep it all to yourself,nd I’ll swear all your oaths of agreement we hadack again, and then seek soldiers where you will*Toro. O then Paddy how did you end the matter ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, by the nights of shaintatrick a«nd help of my brogues, I both ended it,pnd mended *t, for the next night before that I gavehem leg-ball for my fidelity, and went about' thecuntry a fortune-teller, dumb and deaf as I was not.Tom How old was you Paddy : when you wassoldier last •Teag. Arra, dear honey, 1 was three dozen all butwo, and it is only two years since, so I want onlyour yearsofthree eli zenyet, and when I live six <!oz-n more, I’ll be older than I an., I’ll warrand you,Tom. O tut Paddy, by your account, you are20three dozen of years old already.Teag. O what far a big fool are you now Torn,when you count the years I lay sick } which time Icount no tiTne at all.Tom. Of all the opinions professed in religion f|teH me now, Paddy, of what profession art thou ■Paddy. Arra, dear shoy, my religion was too |weighty a matter to carry out of mine own country :1 was afraid that you English Presbyterians shouldpluck it awa* from me.Tom. What, Paddy, was your religion such aload that you could not carry it along with you ?Paddy. Yes, that it was, but l carried it alwaysabuut with me when at home, my sw'eet cross uponmy dear breast, bound to my dear button hole.Tom. And what manner of worship did you per¬form by that ?Paddy. Why I adored the cross, the pope, and •'the priest, cursed Oliver as black, as a ciow, andswears myself a cut throat against all Protestants 1and church of Englaodmen.Tom. And what is the matter hut you would be !'a church of England man, or a Scotch Presbyterian 1yourself Paddy ? 1Paddy Because it is unnatural for an Irishman ; *but bad shaint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I hadbeen the same. , 3 'Tom. And for what.reason would you be a Pres- Ktbyterian then, Paddy ■ ^Paddy. Because they have liberty to eat flesh inIsnt and every thing that’s lit for the belly.Tom. What, Paddy, are you such a lover of flesh |fhat y,ou would change your profession for it. illPaddy. O yes thai’s what I would, I love flesh of , |A NEW CATECHISM, &c.and Uen’< vfenison ; but our religion is one of theliungriest in all the world, ah ! but it mak»-8 myteeth to weep, and my belly to water, when I seethe Scotch Presbyterians, and English cburchnitm,in time of lent, feeding upon, bulls bastardy andsheep’s young children.Tom. Why Paddy, do you say the bull is a forrnicator and gets bastards ?Paddy.. Arra, dear shoy, I never saw the cow andbet husband, all the days of my life, nor before I wasborn, going to the church to be married, and wlustthen can his sons and daughters he but bastards ?Tom. What reward will you get when you ared|ad, for pnuishing your belly so while you are alive?i(Jddy. By shaiut Patrick I’ll live like a king whenI’m dead, ipf I will neither pay for meat nor drink.Totn What Paddy, do you think that yon are toCbme alive again when you are dead iPaddy, O yes we that are true Roman Catkolickswill live a long time after we are dead ; when Wodie in love with the Priests, and the good people ofj| (hir profession.Tom. And what assurauce can your priest give! you of that ?Paddy. Area dear shay, our priest is a greati shaint, a good shoul, who cao repeat a pater-noster,I and Ave Maria, which will f^^it the very born.eAdevil hifuself, and make him run for it, unfit be belike to fall and break his neck.Tom. And what does he give yap when you aredying that makes you come alive again ?Paddy. Why he writes a letter upon our tongues,sealed with a wafer, gives us a sacrament in ©mmouth, with a pardon, and direction in our mgfftli hanjl, who to call for at the ports of Pnrgatwy ?Tom. And what money* design you to gnte thepriest fer your pardon ?Paddy. Dear shoy, I wish I had first the moneyfee Would take fer it, I would rather djriak it22self, amd (hen give him both my bill and my hone»t word, payable in the other world.Tom. And how then are you to get a passagetp the other world, or who is to carry you there iPaddy. O my dear shoy, Tom, you know nothingof the matter : for when I die, they will bury mybody, flesh, blood, dirt, and hones, only my skinwill be blown up full of wind and spirit, my dearshoul I mean ; and then I will be blown over to the•ther world, on the wings of the wind ; and afterthat I’ll never be kill'd, haOg’d nor drown'd, noryet die in my bed, for when any hits me a blow, mynew body will play buff upon it like a bladder.Tom. But what way will you go to the newworld, or where is it ?Paddy. Arra, dear shoy, the priest knows whereit is but I do, not, but the Pope of Rome keeps theouter-port, sh'aint Patrick the inner-purt, and givesus a direction or the way to shaiat Patrick’s palate,which stands on the head of the Stalibn-loch, whereI’ll have no more to do but chap at the « ate.Tom. What is the need for chapping at thegate, is it not always open ?Paddy. Dear shoy,‘you know little about it, forthere is none can enter but red hot Irishmen, forwhen I call, Allelien, dear honey, shaint Patrickcountenance your cam dear countryman if you will,then the gates will be opened directly for me, forhe knows and loves an Irishman’s voice, as heloves his own heart.Tom. And what entertainment willwheq you are in ?Paddyi O my dear, we are all kept there until ageneral review, which is commonly, once in theweek ; and then, we ace drawn up like as manyyoung recruits, and all the black guard scoundrelsis pickt out of the ranks, and one half of them issent away to the Plysian fields, to curry the weedsfrom among the potatoes, the other half of them to.IsyougetIHji,lie river Sticks, to catch fishes for shaint Patrick’sable, and them that is owing the priests any moneys put in the black-hole, and then given to the handstf a great black bitch of a devil, which is keepedor a hangman, who whips them up and down th«ijrooky dungeon every morning for six months.Tom. And where does your good people gojvhea they are separated Irom the bad.Paddy. And where would you have them to goitut unto shaint Patrick's palace, and then theynay go down the back stairs into tne garden ofEden, now called Paradise.Tom. Well Paddy, are you to do as much justiceo a Protestant as a Papist?Paddy. O my dearshoy, the most justice we arerommauded to do a Protestant, is to whip and tor*ment them until they confess themselves in the Ro-nish Faith *, and then cut their thruats that theynay die believers.Tom. What business do you follow after at pre¬sent l , .I Paddy. Arra, dear shoy, I am a mountain sailor,nod my supplication is as follows :PADV’s HUMBLE PETITION, OR SUPPLICATION.Go5D Christian people, behold me a man ! whoMias coin’d through a world of wonders, a hell full ofi-iardships, dangers by sea, and dangers by land, andlyet I am alive ; you may see my hand crooked like ajfowl’a foot, and that is no wondet at all consideringpiy sufferings and sorrows : Oh ! oh ! oh ! good p,eo-i»de, 1 was a man in my time, who had plenty of theigoid, plenty ofthe silver, plenty of the clothes, plentyjjifthe butter, the beer, beef, and bisket. And now,now I have nothing hut taken by the Turks, and re-ieved by the Spaniards, lay sixty-six days at the siegen Gibralter, and got nothing to cut but sea wreckind raw mussels eput to sea for our safety, cast uponthe Barbarian coast, amang the woful wicked Algex-.I;;ines, where we were taken and tied with tugs anladders, horse-locks, and cow-chains: then cut arcastrate yard and testicle quite sway, if you will mbeKeve, put in your hand and feel how every femalemade smooth by the sheerbone, where nothing is tbe seert but what is natural. Then mad" oar escagto the desert wild wilderness of Arabia’, where \tlived among the wild asses, upon wind, sand, arsapless ling. Afterwards put to sea in the hull ofeld house, where we were tossed above and belowclouds, being driven through fierce, coarse, calm, ancontrary winds ; at last, was cast upon Salisbutplains, where eur vessel was dashed to pieces agaic!|a cabbage stock. And now my humble petition t!you, good Christian people, is for one hundred ||your beef, one hundred of your butter, another iyonr cheese, a tun of your beer, a keg of your ruwith a pipe of your wine, a lump of your gold asHver, a few of your halfpence and farthings,w-aught of your butter-milk, a pair of your o|breeches, stockings, or shoes, even a chaw of tobacco for charity’s sake.A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.I believe the Pope of Rome to be the right ‘betand true successor of Peter the Apostle, and that hhas a power above the kings of the world, being sptritual and temperal: endowed with a communicatioifrom beyond the grave, and can bring up any de* i e ora Parte{* sh°ul* he pleases, even as the wbdcvif iji ks man ®'n^or bright up Samuel to Saul:ulead ^ t*ie 8arae P0VTer b® can» assisted by thi|enchantments of old Manasseh,' a kirtgi’jIsrael. I believe also in the Romish Priests thajthey are very eivi'. chaste gentlemen, keep no wiveof their own but partake a little of other men’s wtiniin secret confession. I acknowledge the worship!ping of images, and relics of ghaints departed to b»|very just; but if they hear and not help ug, 0 thejare but a parcel of ungrateful wretches.finis:' '' .Fii