[No. 7.THEIDEMON SHIP,ORTHE PIRATEOF THE MEDITERRANEAN.EDINBURGH :PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.THE DEMON SHIP, &c.I was the only son of a widowed mother, who, though far |ifrom affluent, was not pennyless ;—you will naturally suppose, Itherefore, I was a most troublesome, disagreeable, spoiled child, j]Such I might have been, but for the continual drawback on Iall my early gratifications, which my maternal home present- -aed, in the shape of an old dowager countess, a forty-ninth ||cousin of my mother’s. Whatever I was doing, wherever I |was going, there was she reproving, rebuking, exhorting, and wall to save me from idling, or drowning, or quarrelling, or astraying, or a hundred etceteras. I grew up, went to school,to college—finally, into the army, and with it to Ireland;and had the satisfaction, at five-and-twenty, to hear thedowager say I was good for nothing. She was of a somewhat tmalicious disposition, and perhaps I did not well to make hermy enemy. At this time I had the offer of a good militaryappointment to India, and yet I hesitated to accept it. There■was in my native village a retired Scotch officer, for whom Ihad conceived a strong attachment. His daughter I hadknown and loved from childhood, and when this gave placeto womanhooij, my affection changed in kind while it strength- tcned in degree. Margaret Cameron was at this period seven¬teen, and, consequently, eight years my junior. She was !young, beautiful, and spoiled by a doating parent—yet I saw ;in her a fine natural disposition,.and the seeds of many noblequalities. To both father and daughter I openly unfolded .1my affection. Captain Cameron, naturally, pleaded the youthof his daughter. Margaret laughed at the idea of my evenentertaining a thought of her, and declared she would as soon jthink of marrying an elder brother as myself. I listened to- jher assertions with profound silence, scorned to whine and iplead my cause, bowed with an air of haughty resignation, jand left her.When next I saw Margaret I was in a travelling dress ather father’s residence. I found her alone in the garden, occu- jpied in watering her flowers. ‘ I am come, Margaret,’ I •said, ‘ to bid you farewell.’—‘ Why, where are. you going V 1•—‘ To London, to sea, to India.’—‘ Nonsense ! ‘ You |always think there is nonsense in truth ; every thing that is ]serious to others is a jest to you.'—‘ Complementary this |morning.’—‘ Adieu, Margaret; may you retain through life ;the same heartlessness of disposition. It will preserve youfrom many a pang that might reach a more sensitive bosom.’ 1You do my strength of mind infinite honour. Every girl iTHE DEMON SHIP OP THE MEDITERRANEAN. \of seventeen can be sentimental, but there arc few stoics intheir teens. I love to be coldly great. You charm mb.’—‘ If heartleesn&ss and mental superiority are with you syno-nymes,’ I said, with gravity,' count yourself, Miss Cameron,at the very acme of intellectual greatness, since you can takeleave of one of your earliest friends with such easy indiffer¬ence. ’—‘ Pooh ! pooh ! I know you are not really going.This voyage to India is one of your favourite threats in yourdignified moments. I think this is about the twentieth timeit has been made. And for early friends, and so forth, youhave contrived to live within a few hundred feet of themw ithout coming in their sight for the last month ; so they can¬not be so very dear.’—' Listen to me, Margaret,’ said I, witha grave, and, as I think, manly dignity of bearing ; ‘ I offeredyou the honest and ardent, though worthless gift of a heart,whose best affections you entirely possessed. I am not cox¬comb enough to suppose that I can at pleasure storm the affec¬tions of any woman ; but I am man enough to expect thatthey should be denied me with some reference to the delicaterespect due to mine. But you are, of course, at full liberty tochoose your own mode of rejecting your suitors ; only, as onewho still views you as a friend, I would that that mannershewed more of good womanly feeling, and less of consciousfemale power. I am aware, Margaret, that this is not thegeneral language of lovers ; perhaps if it were, woman mighthold her power more gracefully, and even Margaret Cameron’sheart would have more of greatness and generosity than itnow possesses.’ While I spoke, Margaret turned away herlovely face, and I saw that her very nack was suffused. Itook her hand, assured her that the journey I had announcedwas no lover’s ruse, and that* I was really on the point ofquitting my native land.—‘ And now, Margaret,’ I said,‘ farewell—you will scarce find in life a more devoted friend—a more ardent desirer of your happiness, than him you havedriven from your side.’ I stretched out my hand to Margaretfor a friendly farewell clasp. But she held not out her’s inreturn ; she spoke not a word of adieu. I turned an indig¬nant countenance towards her, and, to my unutterable sur¬prise, beheld my beautiful young friend in a swoon. Andwas this the being I had accused of want of feeling ! We leftthe garden solemnly plighted to each other. But I passbriefly over this portion of my history. I was condemned bythe will of Captain Cameron, and by the necessity of obtain¬ing some professional promotion, to spend a few years in Indiabefore I could receive the hand of-Margaret.I reached my Asiatic destination—long and anxiously look-inn DEMON snip4ed for European letters—took up one day by accident anEnglish paper, and there read—* Died, at the house of Cap¬tain Cameron, in the village of A , Miss MargaretCameron, aged eighteen.’ I will not here dwell on my feelings.I wrote a letter of despair to Captain Cameron, informinghim of the paragraph I had read, imploring him, for the loveof mercy, if possible, to contradict it, and declaring that myfuture path in life now lay stretched before me like one wildwaste. The Countess of Falcondale answered my epistle bya deep, black-margined letter, with a sable seal as large as asaucer. My sole parent was no more ;—for Captain Cameron■—he had been seized by a paralytic affection in consequenceof the shock his feelings had sustained.The appearance of my name about five years afterwards,among the ‘ Marriages’ in the Calcutta Gazette, was followed bysuecessive announcements among the ‘ Births and Deaths,’ inthcsamecsmpendioais record of life’s changes. My wife perishedof a malignant fever, and two infant children speedily follow¬ed her. I set out to return over-land to my native country,a sober, steady, and partially grey-haired colonel of thirty-six.My military career had been as brilliant as my domestic pathhad been clouded. I arrived at a port of the Levant, andthence took ship for Malta, where I landed in safety.At this period, the Mediterranean traders were kept in astate of perpetual alarm by the celebrated ‘ Demon Ship.’Though distinguished by the same attractive title, she in no¬wise resembled the phantom terror of the African Cape. Shewas described as a powerful vessel, manned by a desperateflesh-and-blood crew, whose rapacity triumphed over all fearof danger, and whose cruelty forbade all hope of mercy. Yet,though she was neither ‘ built ’ of air, nor ‘ manned ’ bydemons, her feats had been so wonderful, that there was atlength no other rational mode of accounting for them thanby tracing them to supernatural, and, consequently, demoniacal,agency. She had sailed through fleets undiscovered ; shehad escaped from the fastest pursuers; she had overtakenthe swiftest fugitives; she had appeared where she was notexpected, and disappeared when even her very latitude andlongitude seemed calculable. Her fearful title had been firstgiven by those who dreaded to become her victims ; but sheseemed not ill pleased by the appalling epithet, and shortlyshewed the word DEMON in flaming letters on her stern.Some mariners went so far as to say that a smell of brimstone,and a track of phosphoric light, marked for miles the path¬way of her keel in the waves. Others declared that she hadthe power, through her evil agents, of raising such a strange,OF THE MEDITERRANEAN.5!! dense, and portentous mist in the atmosphere, as prevented[ji her victims from descrying her approach until they fell, as it'1 were, into her very jaws. Innumerable were the vessels thati| had left different ports in the Mediterranean to disappear fors ever. It seemed the cruel practice of the Demon to sink herjj victims in their own vessels.The Demon Ship was talked of from the ports of the Levantto Gibraltar; and no vessel held herself in secure waters un-! til she had passed the Straits. Of course, such a pest to thesei seas was not to be quietly suffered ; so several governmentsi began to think of preparing to put her down. To the sur¬prise, however, of all, she seemed suddenly to disappear from:ithe Mediterranean. Some said that her crew, having soldH themselves to the father of all evil for a certain length of time,!and the period having probably expired, the desperadoes werenow gone to their own place, and the seas would consequentlybe clear again. Others deemed that the Demon Ship hadonly retired for some deep purpose, and would shortly reap-|i| pear with more fearful power.I Most of the trading vessels then about to quit the port of11 Valetta, had obtained convoy from a British frigate and sloopi of war, bound to Gibraltar, and thence to England. So eagerIf were all passengers to sail under such protection, that I hadi; some difficulty in obtaining a berth in any of the holes andi'corners of the various fine fast-sailing copper-bottomed brigs,i! whose cards offered such ‘ excellent accommodations for pas-; sengers.’ At length I went on board the' Elizabeth Downs,’I a large three-masted British vessel, whose size made the sur-| rounding brigs dwindle into insignificance, and whose fresh-! painted sides seemed to foreshew the cleanliness and comfortthat would be found within. One little hen-pen of a cabinon deck alone remained at the captain’s disposal. However,I was fond of a cabin on deck, and paid half my passage-moneyto the civil little captain, who testified much regret that hecould not offer me the ‘ freedom of the quarter-deck,’ as thewhole stern end of the vessel had been taken by an Englishlady of quality, who wished for privacy. lie added that shei was a dowager countess. ‘ I hate dowager countesses,’ saidI, irreverently ; ‘ what is the name of your passenger V—‘ Passenger !’—‘ Well—countess—what is the title of youri countess ? ’ — ‘ The Countess of Falcondale.’—‘ What! ’thought 1; ‘ cannot I even come as near to my former home asMalta, without again finding myself under her influence 1My dear fellow, give me back my passage-money, or accept itas a present at my hands, for I sail not with you,’said 1.But a man at thirty-six will hardly sacrifice his nersonal con-16THE DEMON SHIPvenience to the whimsies of twenty-five ; so I stood to mybargain, determined to keep myself as much as possible fromthe knowledge of my old tormentor. Conscious of my alteredpersonal appearance, I resolved to travel charmingly incog.,and assumed the name and title of Captain Lyon, which hadbeen familiar to me in my childhood, as belonging to a friendof Captain Cameron.It was the month of June, and the weather was oppres¬sively hot. There was so little wind stirring after we set sail,that for several days we made scarcely any way under allthe sail wre could carry. The first night I stretched my limbson a long seat which joined the steps of the quarter-deck.I was now then really on my rvay to my native shores, andshould not step from the vessel in which I sailed until I trodethe land of my fathers ! Naturally enough, my thoughtsturned to former days and old faces. From time to time, thesethoughts half sunk into dreams, from which I repeatedlyawoke, and as often dozed off again. At length, my memory,and consequently my dreams, took the shape of MargaretCameron. The joyous laugh of youth seemed to ring in myears ; and when I closed my eyes, her lovely bright county- »%anceinstantly rose before them. Yet I had the inconsistent 5Conviction of a dreamer that she was dead, and as my slumberdeepened, I seemed busied in a pilgrimage to her early grave.I saw the churoh-yard of A , with the yellow sunlightstreaming on many a green hillock ; and there was one soli- *tary grass grave, that, as if by a strange spell, drew my steps,and on an humble head-stone I read the name of' MargaretCameron, aged 18.’ To my unspeakable emotion I heard,beneath the sods, a sound of sweet and soothing, but melan¬choly music. While I listened with an attention that appa- !rently deprived my senses of their powrer, the church-yard and jgrave disappeared, and I seemed, by one of those transitionsto which the dreamer is so subject, to be sailing on a lone anddismal sea, whose leaden and melancholy waves reflected no :sail save that of the vessel which boro me. The heat becamestifling, and my bosom oppressed, yet the music still sound¬ed, low, sweet, and foreboding in my ear. A soft and whitishmist seemed to brood over the stern of the ship. Accordingto the apparently established laws of spiritual matter, the imist condensed, then gradually assumed form, and I gazed, >with outstretched arms, on the figure of Margaret Cameron.She seemed in my vision as one who, in quitting earth, had leftnot only its passions hut its affections behind her ; and therewas something forbidding in the wan indifference of that eye.Y'et was her voice passing sweet, as still its sad cadences fellOF THE MEDITERRANEAN. /on my ear, in the words of a ballad I had once loved to singwith her—‘ The green sod is no grave of mine,The earth is not my pillow,The grave I lie in shall be thine,Our winding sheet—the billow.’I awoke,—yet for a moment appeared still dreaming-; forthere, hovering over the foot of my couch, I seemed still tobehold the form of Margaret Cameron. She was leaning onthe rail of the quarter-deck, and overlooking my couch. Isat up, and gazed on the objects around me, in order torecover my apparently deluded senses. The full moon wasin her zenith. The heat was intense, the calm profound.There lay the different vessels of our little squadron, noughtseen save their white sails in the moonlight, and nought heardsave their powerless flapping, and the restless plashing of thebecalmed waves, only agitated by the effort of our vessel tocleave them. Still the moonlight fell on the white form andpale countenance of Margaret. I started up. ‘ This is somedelusion,’ said 1,1 Or because one of the countess’s womenresembles my early idol, must I turn believer in ghost-stories,and adopt at thirty-six what I scouted at sixteen ? ’ Thesuddenness of my rising seemed to scare my fair phantom ;and, in the hastiness of her retreat, she gave ample proof ofmortal fallibility by stumbling over some coils of cable thathappened to lie in her way. The shock brought her to herknees. I was up the steps in one instant; seized an arm,and then a hand, soft, delicate, and indubitably of flesh andblood, and restored the lady to her feet. She thanked me ingentle tones that sent a thrill through all mv veins, and mademe again half deem that ‘ the voice of the dead was on mineear.’ 1 now expressed my fears that my sudden gestureshad been the cause of this little accident. ‘ I fear,’ she re¬plied, ‘ my reckless song disturbed your slumbers.’ Aftera few more words had passed between us, I ventured to ask;in a tone as indifferent as I could assume, whether she claimedkindred with Captain Hugh Cameron, of A ? The strik¬ing likeness which she bore to his amiable and deceaseddaughter must, I observed, plead my apology. She lookedat me for a moment with unutterable surprise ; then added,with dignity and perfect self-possession, ‘ I have then, pro¬bably, the pleasure of addressing some old acquaintance ofCaptain Cameron ? How the mistake arose which inducedany one to suppose that his child was no more, I confess my¬self at a loss to imagine. I am the daughter of CaptwuTHE DEMON SHIP6Cameron ; and, after this self-introduction, may, perhaps,claim the name of my father’s former acquaintance.’ Youmay be sure I was in no mood to give it. I rushed to theside of the vessel, and, hanging over it, gasped with an emotionwhich almost stopped respiration. It is inexpressible whata revulsion this strange discovery made in my feelings. Ifelt that there had been treachery. I became keenly sensiblethat I must have appeared a traitor to Margaret, and hur¬riedly resolved not to declare my name to her until I had insome way cleared my character.I was still sufficiently a man of the world to have my feel¬ings in some mastery, and returned to the side of Margaretwith an apology for indisposition, which in truth was nosubterfuge. I verily believe, as the vessel had given a suddenlurch at the moment she had discovered herself, and mypendant posture over the ship’s side might be an attitude ofrather dubious construction, she passed on me the forgivenessof a sea-sick man. Margaret added, that she presumed shehad the pleasure of addressing her fellow-passenger, CaptainLyon ? She had often, she observed, heard her father men¬tion his name, though not aware until this moment of hisidentity with her brother-voyager. I was not displeased bythis illusion, though I thus found myself identified with aman twenty years my senior. I remarked, with an effort atease, that 1 had certainly once possessed the advantage of Cap¬tain Cameron’s acquaintance, but that a lapse of many yearshad separated me from him and his family. ‘ There was, how¬ever,’ I remarked, ‘ a Captain, since made Colonel, Francillon,in India, who had been informed, or rather, happily for herfriends, misinformed, of the death of Miss Cameron.’ Mar¬garet smiled incredulously; but with a dignified indifference,which created a strange feeling within me, seemed willing tolet the subject pass. Margaret’s spirits seemed to have losttheir buoyancy, and her cheek the bloom of youth. Rutthere was an elegance, a sort of melancholy dignity in hermanner, and a touching expression on her countenance, towhich both before had been strangers. Observing her smile,and perceiving that, with another graceful acknowledgmentof my assistance, she was about to withdraw, I grew despe¬rate, and ventured, with some abruptness, to demand if shehad herself known Colonel Francillon ? She answered, witha self-possession which chilled me, that she had certainly inher youth been acquainted with a Lieutenant Francillon, whohad since been promoted in India, and probably was theofficer of whom I spoke. ‘ Perhaps,’ observed I, ‘ there isnot a man alive for whom I feel a greater interest than furil9OF THE MEDITERRANEAN.Colonel Fl-ancilloa.’—‘ He is fortunate in possessing so warm *a friend,’ said Margaret, with careless politeness ; but Ithought I perceived, through this nonchalance, a slight toneof pique, which was less mortifying than her indifference.‘ I know not,’ said I, ‘ any thing which causes such a sud¬den and enchautment-like reversion of the mind to past scenesand feelings, as an unexpected rencontre with those who wereassociated with us in the earliest and freshest days of ourbeing. ’—‘ Nothing certainly, ’ answered Margaret, ‘ re¬minds us so forcibly of the change that has taken place inour being and our feelings.’—‘ True,’ replied I ; 1 yet forthe moment the change itself seems annihilated ; our heartsbeat with the same pulse that before animated them, andtime seems to have warred on their feelings in vain.’—‘ Per¬haps to have taught a lesson in vain,’ said my companion.I added, rather diffidently, ‘ and what lesson should timeteach us 1 ’—‘ It should teach us,’ she answered, ‘that curheart’s best and warmest feelings may be wasted on thatwhich may disappoint, and cannot satisfy them.’—‘ I readyour lesson with delight,’ answered I ; ‘the only danger islest we mistake the coolings of time for the conquests of prin¬ciple.’ She seemed pleased by the sentiment, and by thefrank news of the caution. ‘ It may be,’ she said, ‘ in thepower of Time and Disappointment to detach from the world,or at least to produce a barren acknowledgment of its unsa-tisfactoriness, but it is beyond their unassisted power to at¬tach the soul with a steady and practical love to the onlylegitimate, the only rational source of happiness. Here isthe touch-stone which the self-deceiver cannot stand.’ Iwas silent. There was a delicious feeling in my bosom thatis quite indescribable.—‘ These,’ I said, ‘ are the sentimentsof Colonel Francillon ; and since we have been on the subjectof old friends, I could almost make up my mind to give youhis history. It really half resembles a romance. At least, itshews how often, in real life, circumstances—I had almostsaid adventures—arise, which in fiction we should deride asan insult to our taste, by the violence done to all probability.Come, shall I give you the history of your former acywatMf-ance?'—‘ Give me the history!’ said Margaret, involunta¬rily, and with some emotion—it seemed the emotion ofindignation.—‘ Ay, why not 1 I mean, of course, his Indianhistory ; for of that in England, perhaps, as jour families wereacquainted, you may know as much as I can.’I confess my heart began to beat quick and high, as, takingadvantage of Margaret’s silence, I began to tell my own his¬tory.—Erancillon had, I observed, arrived in India, animated inTHE DEMON SHIP10his endeavours to obtain fortune and preferment bj one of thedearest and purest motives which can incite the human bosom.Here Margaret turned round with a something of dignifieddispleasure, which seemed to reprobate this little delicate al¬lusion to her past history. I proceeded as though I markednot her emotion.—Francillon was under an engagement to ayoung and lovely compatriot, whose image was the idol of hisbosom, but whose name, from natural and sacred feelings,had never passed his lip to human being. Here I thoughtMargaret seemed to breathe again. So I told my historysimply and feelingly, and painted my grief on hearing of thedeath of Margaret, with such depth of colouring, that I had wellnigh identified the narrator with the subject of his biography.She said, in a peculiar tone, with which an assumed careless¬ness in vain struggled, ‘ 11 is singular that a married manshould have thus grieved over the object of an unextinguish-e l attachment. ’—‘ Captain Francillon,’ I observed, ‘ wasnot married until five years after the period we speak of,—when he gave his hand to one of whom I trust he has toomuch manly feeling ever to speak save with the tender re¬spect she merited, but to whom he candidly confessed thathe brought but a blighted heart, the better half of whose af¬fections lay buried in the grave of her who had first inspiredthem.’I continued my history—brought myself to Malta, andplaced myself on board an English vessel. Here, I confess,my courage half-failed me ; but I went on.—4 Francillon,’1 said, 4 now began to realize his return to his native land.On the first night of his voyage, he threw himself, in medi¬tative mood, on the deck, and half in thought, half in dreams,recalled former scenes. But there was one form which con¬stantly arose before his imagination, lie dreamed, too, ofsomething—I know not what—of a pilgrimage to the lonegrave of her he had loved and lost ; and then a change cameupon his slumbering fancy, and he seemed to be ploughingsome solitary and dismal sea ; but even there a form appearedto him, whose voice thrilled on his ear, and whose eye, thoughit had waxed cold to him, made his heart heave with strangeand unwonted emotion. He awoke—but oh !—the visionvanished not. Still in the moonlight he saw her who hadrisen on his dreams. Francillon started up. The figure hegazed on hastily retreated. He followed her in time to raiseher from the fell her precipitate flight had occasioned, anddiscovered that she whom he beheld was indeed the object ofhis heart’s earliest and best feelings—was Margaret Cameron!’I believe uy respiration almost failed me as I thus ended.11OP THE MEDITERRANEAN.1 Margaret sprang te> her feet with astonishment and emo-, tion. 1 Is it possible !—have 1 then the pleasure to see—Iii am sure—I am most fortunate—’ again and again beganl|j Margaret, and gave way to-an honest flood of tears. I felt!! that I had placed her in an embarrassing situation. Seating'; myself, therefore, by her, and taking her hand,.—‘ Margaret,’! I said, ‘ I fear I have been somewhat abrupt with you. For-|1 give me if I have been too bold in thus forcing on you thei history of one for whom I have little reason and less right toI suppose you still interested. Bury in oblivion some passages[J in it, and forgive the biographer if he have expanded a littlej too freely on feelings which may be unacceptable to your ear.’1 stretched out my hand as I spoke, and we warmly shook|il hands, as two old friends in the tirst moment of meeting.I had been longing to know somewhat of Margaret’s owi;j history,—wherefore she had visited Malta, <fec. ; but plio'j fieemed to have no intention of gratifying my curiosity,i:| and I only too feelingly divined that her parent’s altered cir-| cumstances had sent her out the humble companion of thaIS Countess of Falcondale ‘ I am aware,’ I said, smiling, ‘ thatII I have more than one old acquaintance in this vessel; and,ii in truth, when I heard that my former friend—I had nearlyl| said enemy—the Countess of Falcondale, was on board, I felti half-inclined to relinquish the voyage.’ Margaret hesitated—| then said, half-smiling, half-sad, ‘ I cannot autobiofjraphize1 as ray friend has done. But—but—perhaps you heard of thoi unhappy state of my dear parent’s affairs—and his daughteri was prevailed on to take a step—perhaps a false one. Well,ii well, I cannot tell my history. 1’eace be with the dead !—•i every filial, every conjugal feeling consecrate their ashes !—< but make yourself easy ; my mother-in-law is not here. Youf will find but one dowager-countess in this vessel, and shenow shakes your hand, and bids'you a good night.’ Mar¬garet hastily disappeared as she spoke, and left me in a state•^-but I will teaze no one with my half-dream like feelingson that night.Well, I failed not to visit my noble fellow-passenger on themorrow ; and day after day, while we lay on those becalmedI waves, I renewed my intercourse with Margaret. It cani easily be divined that she had given her hand to save a parent,:i and that she had come abroad with a husband, who, dying,i had there left her a widow, and, alas for me ! a rich widow.I If limits would*allow, I could tell a long tale of well-managedtreachery and deception ; how the ill-natured countess suf¬fered me to remain in the belief that the death of CaptainCameron’s niece, which occurred at A , was that of myTHE DEMON SHIP12own Margaret; how, in her character ef supreme managerof the paralytic officer’s aitairs, she kept my letters ; how sheworked on Margaret’s feelings to bring about a marriage with jthe Earl of Falcondale, in the hope of again acquiring amaternal footing in her son’s house, and the right of ma- |naging a portionless daughter-in-law ; how Margaret held Iout stoutly until informed of my broken faith ; and how hermarriage was kept from the public papers. One night, I 'thought, as I bade the countess good night, that I perceiveda light breeze arising. This I remarked to her, and she re- iceived the observation with a pleasure which found no cor¬respondent emotion in my own bosom. As I descended to myberth, I fancied I descried among the sailors one Girod Jac- 1queminot, whose face I bad not before remarked. He was aFrenchman, to whom I bad, during my residence abroad,rendered some signal services, and who, though but a wildfellow, had sworn to me eternal gratitude. He skulked, bow- ;ever, behind his fellows, and did not now, it appeared, chooseto recognise his benefactor. ’!I believe I slept profoundly that night. When I awoke, lthere was a sound of dashing waves against the vessel, and ahustle of sailors’ voices, and a blustering noise of wind amongthe sails and rigging; and I soon perceived that our shipwas scudding before a stiff, nay, almost stormy gale. I peeped jthrough the seaward opening of my little cabin. The ssenewas strangely changed. It was scarcely dawn. I looked forthe white sails of our accompanying vessels, and our convoy.All had disappeared. We seemed alone on those leaden-coloured billows. At this moment, I hoard a voice in brokenEnglish say, ‘ C mfound—while I reef tosc tammed top-sails,my pipe go out.’—‘ Light it again, then, at the binnacle, Mon-seer,’ said a sailor.—‘Yes, and be hanged to de yard-arm 1by our coot captain for firing de sheep. Comment-faire ?Bacrebleu ! I cannot even tini vidout my pipe. De tought!Monsieur in de leetle coop dere have always de lamp patentburning for bees lecture. He sleep now. I go enter gently :•—light my pipe.’ He crept into my cabin as he spoko.‘ How’s this, my friend V said I, speaking in French ; doesnot your captain know that we are out of sight of convoy ? ’Gfirod answered in his native language,—1 Oh ! that I hadseen you sooner. You think, perhaps, I have forgotten all 1owe you? Ho—no—but ’tis too late now!’ He pointedto the horizon. On its very verge one sail was yet visible.A faint rolling noise came over the water. ‘ It is the British jfrigate,’ said Girod, ‘ firing to us to put our ship about, and !|keep under convoy. But our captain has no intention of !|jOF THE MEDITERRANEAN.13obeying the signal; and if you get out °f sight of that one distantsail, you are lost.’—‘Think you, then, that the Demon Shipia in these seas said I, anxiously. Girod came close to me.With a countenance of remorse and despair which I can neverforget, he grasped my arm, and held it towards heaven,—‘ Look up to God! ’ he whispered ; ‘you are on board theDemon ship !' A step was heard near the cabin, and Girodwas darting from it; out I held him by the sleeve. ‘ Forheaven’s sake, for miladi’s sake, for your own sake,’ he whis¬pered, ‘ let not a look, a word, shew that you are acquaintedwith this secret. All I can do is to try and gain time for ysu.I But be prudent, or you are lost! ’ and quitted the cabin ashe spoke. When I thought how long, and how fearlessly, the‘ Elizabeth’ had lain amid the trading-vessels at Valetta,and how she had sailed from that port under a powerful con¬voy, I was almost tempted to believe that Girod had beenpractising a joke on me. ‘ What have you been doing there'! ’i said a voice I had never heard before, and whose ruffianlyt tones could hardly be subdued by his efforts at a whisper.‘ My pipe go out,’ answered Girod Jacqueminot, ‘ and I notso imprudent to light it at de beenacle. So I go just hold itover de lamp of Monsieur, and he sleep, sleep, snore, snoreall de while, and know noting. I have never seed one mandorme so profound.’I now heard the voices of the captain, Girod, and thoruffian, in close and earnest parlance. The expletives thatgraced it shall be omitted. But what first confirmed my fears,was the hearing our captain obsequiously address the ruffian-speaker as commander of the vessel, while the former receivedfrom his companion the familiar appellative of Jack. They; were walking the deck, and their whispered speech onlyreached me as they from time to time approached my cabin,and was again lost as they receded. I thought, however, thatI, Girod seemed, by stopping occasionally, as if in the vehemenceof speech, to draw them, as much as possible, towards mycabin. I then listened with an intentness which made mealmost fear to breathe. ‘ But again I say, Jack,’ said thevoice of the real captain, ‘ what are we to do with these finepassengers of ours 1 I am sick of this stage-play work ; andthe men are tired, by this time, of being kept down in thehold. We shall have them mutiny if we stifle them muchlonger below. Look how that sail is sinking on the horizon.She can never come up with us now. There be eight goodKicks in the forecastle, and wo can spare them due ballast.That would do the job decently enough for our passengers—ha ! ’ ‘ Oh ! mine goot captain, you are man of speeret,’ ob-THE DEMON SHIP14served Jacqueminot; ‘ but were it not wise to see dat sail nomore, before we shew dat we no vile merchanters, but menof de trade dat make de money by de valour.’—‘ There issomething in that,’ observed Jack ; ‘ if the convoy come up,and our passengers be missing, ’tis over with us.’ ‘And decoot sacks wasted for noting,’ said Jacqueminot, with a coolingenuity that contrasted curiously with his vehement andhorror-stricken manner in my cabin. ‘ Better to wait oneday—two day—parbleu ! tree day—than spoil our sport byde precipitation.’—‘ I grudge the keep of these dainty passen¬gers all this while,’ said the captain, roughly;—‘ my ladythere, with her chickens, and her conserves, and her pasties ;and Mr Molly-flower Captain here, with his bottles of portand claret, and cups of chocolate and Mocha coffee. Faying,too, forsooth ! witii such princely airs for every thing, as ifwe held not his moneyin our own hands already. Hunted as wethen were, ’twas no bad way of blinding governments, by pass¬ing for traders, and getting monied passengers on board ; butit behoves us to think what’s to be done now F—‘ My opinionis,’ said Jack, ‘ that we keep up the farce another day or twountil we get into clear seas again. That vessel, yonder, stiltkeeps on the horizon, and she has good glasses on board.’—■‘ And the men 1 ’ asked the captain. ‘ I had rather, withoutmore debate, go into this hen-pen here, and down into thecabin below, and in a quiet way do for our passengers, thanstand the chance of a mutiny among the crew.’ Here myvery blood curdled in my veins. ‘ Hat is goot, and like minebrave capitain,’ said the Frenchman ; ‘ and yet MonsieurJean say well mosh danger kill at present; but why not havede crew above deck vidout making no attention to de voyagers.Hey take not no notice. Miladi tink but of moon, and stars,and book ; and for de sleeping Lyon dere, it were almostpity to cut his troat in any case. He ver coot faillow ; likewe chosen speerit. Sacre-bleu ! I knew him a boy.’—[Ihad never seen the fellow until I was on the wrong side ofmy thirtieth birth-day.]—‘Alvays for de mischief,—stealingapples, beating his school-fellows, and oder little speeritedtricks. At last, he was expell de school. I say not dispraisefrom no love to him ; for he beat me one, two time, when Ivas secretaire to his uncle ; and den run off vid my soodheart—so Ivt well pleased maki him bad turn.’—1 Look, look!’said Jacg, ‘ the frigate gains on us ; I partly see her hull, andthe wind slackens.’ I now put my own glass through mylittle window, and could distinctly see the sails and riggingand part of the bull of our late convoy. 1 could perceivethat many of her crew were aloft. It was a comfortable sightOP THE MEDITERRANEAN.15to see a friendly power apparently so near ; and there was afeeling of hopeless desolation when, on remoring the glass,the vessel shrank into a dim, grey speck on the horizon. Thecaptain uttered an infernal oath, and called aloud to his sailors,‘ Seamen—ahoy—ahoy ! Make all the sail ye can. Veer outthe main-sheet—top-sails unreefed—royals and sky-sails up,[(fee. <fec.] ‘ Stretch every stitch of canvass. Keep her tothe wind—keep her to the wind ! ’ I was surprised to findthat our course was suddenly changed, as the vessel, whichhad previously driven before the breeze, was now evidentlysailing with a side wind. .The Demon Ship was made for fast sailing, and she literacyflew like a falcon over tiie wave*. *^e more I turned to thehorizon. God of mercy ! thefrigau again began w sink up#nwatersI felt that in a few hours I might not only be butchered mcold blood myself, but might see Margaret—that was thethought that unmanned me. I tried to think if aught layin our power to avert our coming fate. Nothing offered it¬self. We were entirely in the power ef the Demon buccaneers.And I saw that all (iirod could do was to gain a few hours’delay. My earnest desire now was to inform Margaret asquickly as possible of her coming fate. But after Girod’sparting injunction, I feared to precipitate the last fatalmeasures by any step that might seem taken with referenceto them. 1 therefore lay still until morning was farther ad¬vanced. I then arose, and left my cabin. It was yet scarcelybroad day, but many a face I had not before seen met myeye, many a countenance, whose untameable expression offerocity had doubtless been deemed, even by the ruffian com¬mander himself, good reason for hitherto keeping them fromobservation. All on the quarter-deck was quiet, and it seemedthat the countess and her female attendants were still enjoy¬ing a calm and secure repose. I longed to descend and arousethem from a sleep which was so soon to be followed by adeeper slumber.I had now an opportunity of discovering the real nature ofmy sentiments towards Margaret. They stood the test whichoverthrows many a summer-day attachment. 1 felt that,standing as my soul now was on the verge of its everlastingfate, it lost not one of its feelings of tenderness. The sunarose, and the countess appeared on deck. 1 drew her tothe stern of the vessel, so that her back was to the crew, andthere divulged the fearful secret which so awfully concernedher. At first, her cheek was pale, her lips bloodless, andrespiration seemed almost lost in terror and overpoweringTHE DEMON SHIP16astonishment. She soon, however, gained comparative self-possession. ‘ 1 must be alone for a few moment*,’ she said ;‘ perhaps you will join me below in a brief hour.’ When ICed her at the time she had appointed, a heavenly calmstolen over her countenance. ‘ Come and sit by me, myfriend ; our moments'seem numbered on earth, but, oh! whatan interminable existence stretches beyond it. In such amoment as this, how do we feel the necessity of some betterstay than aught our own unprofitable lives can yield ! ’ Mar¬garet’s Bible lay before her. It was open at tho history ofHis sufferings on whom her soul relied. She summoned hermaidens, and we all read and prayed together. Her atten¬dants were two sisters, of less exalted mind than their mistress,but whose piety, trembling and lowly, was equally genuine.It was a difficult day to pass, urged by prudence, and theslender remains of hope, to appear with our wonted bearingbefore the crew. Too plain indications that our sentencewas at length gone forth soou began to shew themselves.Margaret held me to her with a gentle and trembling tenacity,that rendered it difficult for me to leave her even for a moment;but I felt the duty of ascertaining whether any aid yet ap-rared in view, or whether Girod could effect aught for us.walked, towards evening, round the quarter-deck—not asail was to be seen on the horizon. I-endeavoured to spookto Girod, but he seemed studiously and fearfully to avoid me.The captain was above, and the deck was thronged. I believethis desperate crew was composed of ‘ all people, nations, andlanguages.’ Once only I met Girod’s eye as he passed msquickly in assisting to hoist a sail. He looked me fixedly andsignificantly in the face. It was enough : that expressiveregard said, ‘ Your sentence has gone forth ! ’ I instantlydescended to the cabin, and my fellow-victims read in mycountenance the extinction of hope. We now fastened thedoor, I primed my pistols, and placed them in my bosom, andclinging to one another we waited our fate. Margaret puther hand in mine with a gentle confidence, which our circum¬stances then warranted, and I held her close to me. Shestretched out her other hand to her female attendants, who,clinging close together, each held a hand of their mistress.‘ Dear Edward ! ’ said Margaret, grasping my arm. It wasalmost twelve years since I had heard these words from herlips. Unrestrained, at such a moment, by the presence ofthe domestics, Margaret and I used the most endearing ex¬pressions, and, like a dying husband and wife, bade solemnfarewell to each other. We all then remained silent, ourquick beating hearts raised in prayer, and our ear open toOF THE MEDITERRANEAN.■Ill17every sound that seemed to approach the cabin. The oceanmust undoubtedly be our grave ; but whether the wave, thecord, the pistol, or the dagger, would be the instrument ofour destruction, we knew not.The sun sunk in the waters, and the wind, as is often thecase at sunset, died on the ocean. At this moment, I heardthe voice of the captain—‘ Up to the top of the mainmast,Jack, and see if there be any sail.on the horizon.’ We dis¬tinguished the sound of feet running up the shrouds. A fewmoments elapsed ere the answer was received. At length,we heard a—‘Well, Jack, well?’—which was followed bythe springing of a man on deck, and the words, ‘ not a sailw ithin fifty miles, I’ll be sworn. ’—‘ Well, then, do the workbelow ! ’ was the reply. ‘ But (with an oath) don’t let’s haveany squealing or squalling. Finish them quietly. And takeall the trumpery out of the cabin, for we shall hold revel thereto-night.’ A step now came softly down the cabin stair, anda hand tried the door, hut found it fastened. I quitted Mar¬garet, and placed myself at the entrance of the cabin. ‘ Who¬ever,’ said I, ‘ attempts to come into this place, does it at theperil of his life. I fire the instant the latch is raised.’—Avoice said, ‘ Laissez moi entrer done.’ I then unfastenedthe door. Girod entered, and locked it after him. He draggedin with him four strings, with heavy stones appended tothem, and the same number of sacks. The females sunk onthe floor. In the twinkling of an eye, Girod rolled up thecarpet of the cabin, and took up the trap-door, which everytraveller knows is to be found in the cabins of merchantmen‘ In—in,’ he said in French to the countess and myself, iimmediately descended, received Margaret into my arms, andwas holding them out for the other females, when the trap¬door was instantly closed and bolted, the carpet laid down,the cabin door unlocked, and Girod called out, ‘ Here you,Harry, Jack, how call you yourselves, I've done for two of dem.I can’t manage no more. Dat tamned Captain Lyon, whenI stuff him in do sack, he almost brake de arm.’ Heavy feettrampling over the cabin floor, with a sound of scuffling andstruggling, were now heard over our head.. A stifled shriek,which died into a deep groan, succeeded—then two heavysplashes into the water, with the bubbling noise of somethingsinking beneath the waves, and the fate of the two innocentsisters was decided. ‘ Where’s Monsieur Girod ?’ at lengthsaid a rough voice.—1 Oh, he’s gone above,’ was the reply ;‘ thinks himself too good to kill any but quality'—‘ No, no,’answered the other, ‘ I’m Girod’s, through to the hack-hone—the funniest fellow of the crow. But he had a private10TOE DEMON SHIPquarrel against that captain down at the bottom of the seathere, so he asks our commander not to let any body layhands on him but himself. A very natural thing to ask.1 here close that locker, heave out the long table, there’ll beold revel here to-night.’—At this moment, Girod again de¬scended. All hands aloft, ma lads,’ he cried, ‘ make noattention to do' carpet dere—matters not, for I most fairstdescend, and give out de farine for pasty. We have no morecursed voyagers, so may make revel here to naight vidout noincommode.’ He soon descended with a light into our woodendungeon.Poor Katie, poor Mary. Alas ! for their aged mother ! ’she said, while looking with horror at Girod.—‘ I would havesaved you all, had it been possible,’ said Jacqueminot, inb rench. ‘ Put how were all to be hid, and kept in this place ?vY hat I have done is at the risk of my life. But there is nota moment to be lost. I have the keeping of the stem-hold.Look you—here be two rows of meal sacks fore and aft. Ifyou, miladi, can hide behind one, and you, colonel, behindthe other, ye may have, in some sort, two little chambers toyourselves ; or it you prefer the same hiding-place, take it,in heaven s name, but lose not a moment.’—‘ And what willbe the end of all this ! ’ asked I, after some hurried expressionsoi gratitude. ‘ God knoweth,’ he replied. ‘ I will from timeto time, when I descend to give out meal, and clean the place,bring you provisions. How long this can last—where we aregoing and whether in the end I can rescue you, time mustbe the shower. Hide, hide—I dare not stay one momentlonger. He rolled down a heap of biscuits, placed a pitcherof water by them, and departed.that night the Demon crew held their wild revelry overour head. Their fierce and iniquitous speech, their lawlesssongs their awful and demoniac oaths, their wild intoxication,made Margaret thrill with a horror that half excited the wishto escape in death from the polluting vicinity of such infer¬nal abominations. The light streamed here and there througha crevice in the trap-door, and I involuntarily trembled whenI saw it fall on the white garment of Margaret, as if, even inthat concealment, it might betray her. We dared scarcelywhisper a word of encouragement or consolation to each other—dared scarcely breathe, or stir even a hand from the com¬fortless attitude in which we were placed. The captain ex¬pressed his regret that we had not, as matters turned out,been earlier disposed of, and made a sort of rough apologyto his shipmates for the inconvenience our prolonged exist¬ence must have occasioned them. At length, the revellersOF THE MEDITEERANEAN. 19broke up. I listened attentively until I became convincedthat no one occupied the cabin that night.Towards morning, as I supposed, 1 again distinguishedvoices in the cabin. ‘ It blows a stiff gale,’ was the obser¬vation of Jack.—‘ So much the better,’ replied the captain ;1 the more way we make, the farther we get from all thosecursed government vessels. I think we might now venture tofall on any merchantman that comes in our way. We mustsoon do something, for we have as yet made but a sorry sumout of our present voyage. Let’s see—four thousand sterlingpounds that belonged to the captain there—rather to us—seeing we had taken him on board.’—1 Yes, yes, we have sack¬ed the captain,’ observed Jack, facetiously. Ills companionwent on—‘ His watch, rings, and clothes ; and two thousanddollars of the countess!s, and her jewels. This might be afine prize to a sixteen-gun brig of some dozing government,but the Demon was built for greater things. ’—‘ I suppose,captain,’ said Jack, ‘ we go on our usual plan, eh 1 The specieto be distributed among the ship’s company, and the jewelsand personals to be appropriated, in a quiet way, by the offi¬cers ? I hope there be no breach of discipline, Captain Van-derleer, in asking where might be deposited that secret casket,containing, you and I and one or two more know what ? Imean that we took from the iSpajiish-American brig.’—‘ It isin the stern-hold, beneath our feet at this moment,’ answeredthe captain.—' A good one for dividing its contents,’ said Jack.‘ I’ll fetch a light in the twinkling of an eye.’—‘ No need,’replied the captain. ‘ I warrant me I can lay my hand on itin the dark.’ Without the warning of another moment theDemon commander was in our hold. I suppose it was aboutfour in the morning. I had laid Margaret down on some oldsignal flags, in that division of the hold which Girod had as¬signed her, and had myself retired behind my own bulwarkof meal-sacks, in order that my companion might possess, forher repose, something like the freedom of a small cabin toherself. I had scarcely time to glide round to the side of Mar¬garet ere the merciless buccaneer descended. We almost in¬serted ourselves into the wooden walls of our hiding-place,and literally drew down the sacks upon us. The captain feltabout the apartment with his hand, sometimes pushing itbehind the sacks, and sometimes feeling under them. Andnow he passed his arms through those which aided our con¬cealment. Gracious heaven ! his hand discovered thecountess’s garments ; he grasped them tight; he began todrag her forward ; but at this moment his foot struck againstthe casket for which ho was searching. He stooped to seizo20'IIXK DEMON SNIPit, and, as bis hold on Margaret slackened, I contrived topass towards his hand a portion of the old flag-cloth, so as toimpress him with the belief that it was the original object ofhis grasp. He dragged it forward, and let it go. But he haddisturbed the compact adjustment of the sacks ; and as thevessel was now rolling violently in a tempestuous sea, a terri¬ble larch laid prostrate our treacherous wall of defence, andwe stood full exposed, without a barrier between ourselvesand the ruffian commander of the Demon. He had gone tothe light to pass his casket through the trap-door, 'flhe sunwas rising, and the crimson hues of dawn meeting no otherobject in the hold save the depraved and hardened counte¬nance of our keeper, threw on its swart complexion such aruddy glow, as—contrasted with the surrounding darkness—gave him the appearance of some foul demon emerging fromthe abodes of the condemned, and bearing on his unhallowedcountenance the reflection of the infernal Area he had quitted.That glow was, however, our salvation. The captain turnedwith an oath to replace the fallen sacks, and we felt half-doubtful, as he pushed them with violence against the beamswhere we stood, whether he had not actually discovered ourpersons, and taken this method of at once destroying themby bruises and suffocation. His work was, however, onlyaccompanied by an imprecatory running comment on Girod scareless manner of stowage. We were now again buried inour coneealment; but another danger awaited us. Jacque¬minot descended to the cabin. An involuntary though half-stifled shriek escaped him when he saw the trap-door open,lie sprang into the hold, and when he beheld the captain,his ghastly smile of enquiry, for he spoke not, demanded ifhis ruin were sealed. ‘ I have been seeing all your prettywork here, Monsieur,’ said the gruff captain, pointing to thederanged sacks, behind which we were concealed. I caughta glimpse through them of Girod’s despairing countenance.It was a fearful moment, for it seemed as if we were aboutto be involuntarily betrayed by our ally, at the very instantwhen we had escaped our enemy. Girod’s teeth’ literallychattered, and he murmered something about French gal¬lantry and honour ; and the countess being a lady, and theCaptain Francillon an old acquaintance. ‘ And so becauseyou cut the throats of a couple of solan geese, you think hemust not even see to the righting of his own stern-hold 1 ’said the captain, with a gruff and abortive effort at pleasantry,for he felt Girod’s importance in amusing and keeping ingood-humour his motley crew. Jacqueminot’s answer shewedthat he was now au fait ; and thus we had a fourth rescuefrom the vary jaws of death.OF THE MEDITEIiRAKEAN.21Day after Jay passed away, and still we were the miserable,1 halt-starved, half-suft'ocated, though unknown prisoners of thisI: Demon gang. Girod at this period rarely dared to visit us.I! He came only when the business of the ship actually sent hi;n.li The cabin above was occupied at night by the captain and•j some of his most depraved associates, so that small alleviationN of our fears was afforded us either by day or by night. Atj length, I began to fear that Margaret ivould sink under thej confined air, and the constant excitement. It was agony in-M deed to feel her convulsed frame, and hear her faintly-drawnj and dying breath, and know that I could not carry her intoi j the reviving breezes of heaven, nor afford a single alleviationI’ °f her suffering, without at once snapping that thread of lifei which was now wearing away by a slow and lingering death.At length, her respiration began to partake of the loud andirrepressible character which is so often the precursor of dis¬solution. She deemed her hour drawing on, yet feebly essay-(J ed, for my sake, to stifle those last faint moans of expiring[I nature which might betray our concealment. I supported!| her head, poured a faltering prayer into her dying ear, wipedii the death-dews from her fate, and essayed to whisper expres-,1 sions of deep and unutterable affection. At this moment, Giroddescended to the hold. He put bis finger on his lips signifi-■i cantly, and then whispered in French—1 Courage— Rescue !I1, There is a sail on our weather bow. She is yet in the offing.I captain marks her not; but I have watched her someii tirne^ with a glass, and she appears to be a British sloop ofwar. I grasped Margaret’s hand. She faintly returned thepressure, but gently murmured,1 Too late.’ Ere the lapse ofa moment, it was evident that our possible deliverer was dis-covered by the Demon crew, for we could hear by the bustleof feet and voices that the ship was being put about; and theferocious and determined voice of the buccaneer chief washeard, giving prompt and fierce orders to urge on the Demon.Girod promised to bring us more news, and quitted us. Therush of air into the hold seemed to have revived Margaret,and my hopes began to rise. Yet it was too soon evidentthat the motion of the vessel was increased, and that the crewwere straining every nerve to avoid our hoped-for deliverer.After a while, however, the stormy wind abated ; the shipbecame steadier, and certainly made less way in the waves.A voice over our head said distinctly in French—* The sea isgone down, and the sloop makes signal to us to lay to.’ Aquarter of an hour elapsed, and the voice again said,1 Thesloop chaces us ! ’ Oh ! what inexpressibly anxious.momentswere those. We could discover from the varying cries on deckTHE DEMON BUIP22that the sloop sometimes gained on the Demon, while atothers the pirate got fearful head of her pursuer. At length,Girod descended to the hold. ‘ The die is cast! ’ he said inhis native language. ‘ The sloop gains fast on us. We areabout to clear the deck for action.’—‘ God be praised ! ’ Iejaculated.—‘ Amen ! ’ responded a faint and gentle voice.—‘Do not praise him too soon,’ said Girod, shrugging his shoul¬ders our captain is preparing for a victor}’. The Demonhas mastered her equals, ay, and her superiors, and this sloopis our inferior in size and numbers. The captain has hoistedthe Demon flag, and restored her name to the stem.’—‘ Buthas his motley crew,’ whispered I, anxiously, ‘ ever encoun¬tered a British foe of equal strength ? ’—11 cannot tell; Ihave been in her but a short time, and will be out of her onthe first occasion,’ said Girod, as he hastily quitted us. V\ enow heard all the noise of preparation for an engagement.Cannon were lashed and primed ; concealed port-holes open¬ed. and guns placed at them. Seeing ultimate escape impos¬sible, the captain took in sail, and determined to give hisvessel the advantage of awaiting the foe in an imposing stateof preparation for action. He harangued his men in termscalculated to arouse their brute courage, and excite theircupidity. I heard the captain retire to that part of thevessel which had been the countess’s cabin, and there take asolemn and secret oath of his principal shipmates, that theywould, if boarded by a successful enemy, scuttle the Demon,and sink her, and her crew, and her captors, in one commongrave. It appeared, then, that either ths failure or the suc¬cess of the sloop would alike seal our destruction.Not a ray of light now penetrated through the chinks ofthe trap-door, and, from the heavy weights which had fallenover it, I was inclined to think that shot, or even cannon-balls,had been placed over the mouth of our prison. I listenedanxiously for a signal of the sloop’s nearing us. At length, aship-trumpet, at a distance, demanded, safe and unhurt, thepersons of Colonel Francillon. the Countess of Falcondale, andtwo female domestics. It wa* then evident that the pirate’sstratagem at Malta had transpired. The Demon’s trumpetmade brief and audacious reply:—‘ Go seek them at the bot¬tom of the sea.’ A broadside from the sloop answered thisimpudent injunction, and was followed by a complement inkind from the Demon, evidently discharged from a greaternumber of guns. Long and desperately raged the combatabove us ; but the pirates’ yells waxed fainter and fainter ;while the victorious shouts of the British seamen, mixed withthe frequent and fearful cry, ‘ No quarter, no quarter to theOF THE MEDITiLRRANEAN.23roLbcrs!’ became each instant louder and more triumphant.At length, every sound of opposition from the Demon crewseemed almost to cease. But there was still so much noiseon deck, that I in vain essayed to make my voice heard ;—and for the trap-door, it defied all my efibrts—it was immova¬ble. At this crisis, the shi i, which had hitherto been spring¬ing and reeling with the fit rce fire she had received from heradversary, and the motion a f her own guns_, suddenly began tosettle into an awful and suspicious quiescence. But thevictors were apparently too busy in the work of retribution toheed this strange and portentous change. I perceived, how¬ever, only too clearly that the Demon was about finally tosettle for sinking. After the lapse of a few seconds, it seem¬ed that the conquerors themselves became at last aware ofthe treacherous gulf that was preparing to receive them ; anda hundred voices exclaimed, ‘ To the sloop !—to the sloop !The ship is going down—the ruffians are sinking her ! ’ Inow literally called out until my voice became a hoarse scream.I struck violently against the top of our sinking dungeon. Ipushed the trap-door with my whole force. All was in vain.—I heard the sailors rushing eagerly to their own vessel, andabandoning that of the pirates to destruction. I took Mar¬garet’s hand, and held it up towards heaven, as if it couldbetter than my own plead there for us. All was silent. Nota sound was heard in the once fiercely manned Demon, savethe rushing .of the waters in at the holes where she had beenscuttled by her desperate crew. At last, as if she had re¬ceived her fill, she began to go down with a rapidity whichseemed to send us, in an instant, many feet deeper beneaththe waves, and I now expected every moment to hear themgather over the deck, and then overwhelm us for ever. Ialtered a prayer, and clasped Margaret in my arms. But novoice, no sigh, proceeded from the companion of my grave.At this moment, voices were heard ; weights seemed to beremoved from the trap-door ! It was opened ; and the words,‘ Good heaven! the fellow is right ; they are here, sureenough ! ’ met my almost incredulous ear. I beheld a Britishofficer, a sailor or two, and Girod, with his hands tied behindhim. I held up my precious burden, who was received intothe arms of her Compatriots, and then, like one in a dream,sprang from my long prison. Perhaps it might be well thatMargaret's eye was half-closed in death at that moment; forthe deck of the sinking Demon offered no spectacle forwoman's eye. I shall never forget the scene of desolation pre¬sented by that deck, lying like a vast plank or raft of slaugh¬tered bodies, almost level with the sea, whose waters dashed24 THE DEMOS' SHIP OP THE MEDITEtlHANEAN.furiously over it, and tlierr receding from their still ineffectualattempt to overwhelm the vessel, returned all dyed withcrimson to the ocean ; while the sun setting in a stormy andangry sky, threw his rays—for the last time—in lurid andfitful gleams on the ruined Demon.As we hurriedly prepared to spring into the boat, I saw thatClirod's pinioned members refused him the prompt aid neces¬sary for effecting an escape at such a moment. I returned,seized a bloody cutlass that lay on deck, and, without leaveof the officer, .cut at once through the bonds which confinedour first deliverer. ‘ This man,’ 1 said, as ws seated ourselves,‘ has been the instrument of Heaven for our preservation. Iwill make myself answerable for his liberty and kind treat¬ment.’ fiirod seized my hand, which received a passionateGallic'salute. Our sailors now rowed hard to avoid beingdrawn into the vortex of the sinking ship. Merciful God !we were then out of the Demon ! I supported Margaret inmy arms ; and as I saw her bosom heave, a renewed glow ofhope rushed to my heart.We had not been on board the sloop many minutes, ere,slowly and awfully, the Demon sunk to the same eternal graveto which she had so often doomed her victims. We sawthe top of the main-mast, which had borne her fatal flagabove the waters, tremble like a peint on their very surface,and then vanish beneath them. A frightful chasm yawnedfor a moment—it was then closed by the meeting waters,which soon rolled peacefully over the vessel they had en¬gulfed ; and the Demon, so long the terror of the seas andthe scourge of mariners, disappeared for ever.Should any reader have felt just sufficient interest in thenarrative to roonder whether Margaret died, and whetherColonel Francillon attended her funeral as chief-mourner;or whether she recovered, and was married to the Colonel,  I can only briefly say, that the sloop put into Naples,where the countess was soon placed under a skilful physician.He pronounced her case hopeless, and my relative had onlythe melancholy satisfaction of reflecting that her dying hourwould be peaceful, and her lovely remains honoured byChristian burial. She passed from the hands of her physicianinto those of the British ambassador’s chaplain ; but I donot think it could have been for the purpose of religious in¬terment—as I enjoyed, for nearly forty years after this period,the inestimable privilege of calling the colonel and the coun¬tess my revered father and mother !