SaBS'23 ©31YOUNG ROBBERXVDGLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,Jfa zvm'DQSHT:HaaaoH ozrroY iUK A.3Too& i-ti astjq•• S '. ^ *••H. • . ■■ . v- :.;-:77002AJ0.jfixua-aooa airr aoa (Tarxr::i#STORY OFTHE YOUNG ROBBER.—=»»«IOI©o<—I was born at the little town of Frosinone,which lies at the skirts of the AbruzzLMy father had made a little property intrade, and gave me some education, as heintended me for the church; but I had keptgay company too much to relish the cowl,so I grew up a loiterer about the place. Iwas a heedless fellow, a little quarrelsomeon occasion, but goodhumoured in the main;so I made my way very well for a time,until I fell in love. There lived in our towna surveyor or land-bailiff of the prince’s,who had a young daughter, a beautiful girlof sixteen: she was looked upon as somethingbetter than the common run of our towns¬folk, and was kept almost entirely at bane.I saw her occasionally, and became madlyin love with her—she looked so iresh andtender, and so different from the Eun-burnedfemales to whom I had been accustomed.As my father kept me in money, I al¬ways dressed well, and took all opprtunitiesof showing myself off to advantage in theeyes of the little beauty. I used to see her4at church ; and as I could play a little uponthe guitar, I gave a tune sometimes underher window of an evening; and I tried tohave interviews with her in her father’svineyard, not far from the town, where shesometimes walked. She was evidently pleasedwith me, but she was young and shy; andher father kept a strict eye upon her, andtook alarm at my attentions, for he had abad opinion of me, and looked for a bettermatch for his daughter. I became furiousat the difficulties thrown in my way, havingbeen accustomed always to easy successamong the women, being considered one oftbe smartest young fellows of the place.Her father brought home a suitor for her,a rich tanner from a neighbourinq- town.The w 'dding-day was appointed, and pre¬parations were making. I gnt sight of herat her window, and I thought she lookedsadly at me. I determined the match shouldnot tr re place, cost what it might. I mether intended bridegroom in the market-place,and could imt restrain the expression of myrage. A few hot words passed between us,when I drew my stiletto and stabbed himto the heart. I fled to a neighbouring churchfor refuge, and with a little money I obtainedabsolution, but I did not dare to venturefrom my asylum.At that time our captain was forming his5troop. He had known me from boyhood;and hearing1 of my situation, came to me insecret, and made such offers, that I agreedto enrol myself among his followers. Indeed,I had more than once thought of taking tothis mode of life, having known severalbrave fellows of the mountains, who used tospend their money freely among us young¬sters of the town. I accordingly left myasylum late one night, repaired to the ap¬pointed place of meeting, took the oaths pre¬scribed, and became one of the troop. Wewere for some time in a distant part of themountains, and our wild adventurous kind oflife hit my fancy wonderfully, and divertedmy thoughts. At length they returnedwith all their violence to the recollection ofRosetta : the solitude in which I often foundmyself gave me time to brood over herimage; and, as I have kept watch at nightover our sleeping camp in the mountains,my feelings have been roused almost to afever.At length we shifted our ground, anddetermined to make a descent upon the roadbetween Terracina and Naples. In thecourse of our expedition we passed a day ortwo in the woody mountains which riseabove Frosinone. I cannot tell you how Ifelt when I looked down upon the place, anddistinguished the residence of Rosetta. Iv 6determined to have an interview with her;—but to what purpose? I could not expectthat she would quit her home, and accompanyme in my hazardous life among the moun¬tains. She had been brought up too tenderlyfor that; and when I looked upon thewomen who were associated with some of ourtroop, I could not have borne the thoughtsof her being their companion. All returnto my former life was likewise hopeless, fora price was set upon my head. Still I de¬termined to see her; the very hazard andfruitlessness of the thing made me furious toaccomplish it.It is about three weeks since I persuadedour captain to draw down to the vicinity ofFrosinone, in hopes of entrapping some ofits principal inhabitants, and compellingthem to a ransom. We were lying inambush towards evening, not far from thevineyard of Rosetta’s father. I stole quietlyfrom my companions, and drew near toreconnoitre the place of her frequent walks.How my heart beat when among the vinesI beheld the gleaming of a white dress ! Iknew it must be Rossetta’s; it being rare foiany female of the place to dress in white,advanced secretly and without noise, until,putting aside the vines, and stood suddenlybefore her. She uttered a piercing shriek,but 1 seized her in my arms, put my hand7upon her mouth, and conjured her to besilent. I poured out all the frenzy of mypassion; offered to renounce my mode oflife; to put my fate in her hands; to flywith her where we might live in safety-together. All that I could say or do wouldnot pacify her. Instead of love, horror andaffright seemed to have taken possession ofher breast. She struggled partly from mygrasp, and filled the air with her cries.In an instant the captain and the rest ofmy companions were around us. I wouldhave given any thing at that moment hadshe been safe out of our hands, and in herfather’s house. It was too late. The captainpronounced her a prize, and ordered that sheshould be borne to the mountains. I repre¬sented to him that she was my prize; that Ihad a previous claim to her; and I men¬tioned my former attachment. He sneeredbitterly in reply; observed that brigandshad no business with village intrigues, andthat, according to the laws of the troop, allspoils of the kind were determined by lot.Love and jealously were raging in my heart,but I had to choose between obedience anddeath. I surrendered her to the captain,and we made for the mountains.She was overcome by affright, and hersteps were so feeble and faltering that it wasnecessary to support her. I could not en-8dure the idea that my comrades should touchher, and assuming a forced tranquility,begged that she might be confided to me,as one to whom she was more accustomed.The captain regarded me, for a moment,with a searching look, but I bore it withoutflinching, and he consented. I took her inmy arms; she was almost senseless. Herhead rested on my shoulder; I felt herbreath on my face, and it seemed to fan thedame which devoured me. Oh God! tohave this glowing treasure in my arms, andyet to think it was not mine!We arrived at the foot of the mountain.I ascended it with difficulty, particular!}’'where the woods were thick, but I wouldnot relinquish my delicious burden. I re¬flected with rage, however, that I must soondo so. The thoughts that so delicate acreature must be abandoned to my rudecompanions, maddened me. I felt tempted,the stiletto in my hand, to cut my waythrough them all, and bear herolf in triumph.I scarcely conceived the idea before I sawits rashness; but my brain was fevered withthe thought that any but myself should en¬joy her charms. I endeavoured to outstripmy companions by the quickness: of mymovements, and to get a little distanceahead, in case any favourable opportunityof escape should present. Vain effort!9The voice of the captain suddenly ordereda halt. I trembled, but had to obey. Thepoor girl partly opened a languid eye, butwas without strength or motion. I laid herupon the grass. The captain darted onme a terrible look of suspicion, and orderedme to scour the woods with my companionsin search of some shepherd, who might besent to her father’s to demand a ransom.I saw at once the peril. To resist withviolence was certain death, but to leave heralone, in the power of the captain !—1 spokeout then with a fervour, inspired by mypassion and my despair. I reminded thecaptain that I was the first to seize her;that she was my prize; and that my pre¬vious attachment for her ought to make hersacred among my companions. I insisted,therefore, that he should pledge me hisword to respect her, otherwise I shouldrefuse obedience to his orders. His onlyreply Avas to cock his carbine, and at thesignal my comrades did the same. Theylaughed Avith cruelty at my impotent rage.What could I do? I felt the madnessof resistance. I wras menaced on all hands,and my companions obliged me to folloAVthan. She remained alone Avith the chiel—yes, alone—and almost lifeless !—Here the robber paused in his recital,ova'poAvered by his emotions, Great drops of10sweat stood on his forehead; he pantedrather than breathed; his brawny bosom roseand fell like the waves of a troubled sea.When he had become a little calm, he con-inued his recital.I was not long in finding a shepherd,said he. I ran with the rapidity , of a deer,eager, if possible, to get back before whatI dreaded might take place. I had left mycompanions far behind, and I rejoined thembefore they had reached onehalf the distanceI had made. I hurried them back to theplace where we had left the captain. Aswe approached, I beheld him seated by theside of Rosetta. His triumphant look, andthe dessolate condition of the unfortunategirl, left me no doubt of her fate. I knownot how I restrained my fury.It was with extreme difticidty, and byguiding her hand, that she was made totrace a few characters, requesting her fatherto send three hundred dollars as her ransom.The letter was dispatched by the shepherd.When he was gone, the chief turned sternlyto me: “You have set an example,” saidhe, “of mutiny and self-will, which, ifindulged, would be ruinous to the troop.Had I treated you as our laws require, thisbullet would have been driven through yourbrain. But you are an old friend; I haveborne patiently with your fury and your11folly. I have even protected you fro: afoolish passion that would have unmannedyou. As to this girl, the laws ©f our asso¬ciation must have their course.” So saying,he gave his commands: lots were drawn, andthe helpless girl was abandoned to the troop.Here the robber paused again, pantingwith fury, and it was some moments beforehe could resume his story.Hell, said he, was raging in my heart. Ibeheld the impossibility of avenging myself;and I felt that, according to the articlesin which we stood bound to one another, thecaptain was in the right. I rushed withfrenzy from the place; I threw myself uponthe earth ; tore up the grass with my hands,and beat my head and gnashed my teethin agony and rage. When at length Ireturned, I beheld the wretched victim, pale,dishevelled, her dress torn and disordered.An emotion of pity, for a moment, subduedmy fierce feelings. I bore her to the footof a tree, and leaned her gently against it.I took my gourd, which was filled with wine,and applying it to her lips, endeavoured tomake her swallow a little. To what a con¬dition was she reduced! she, whom I hadonce seen the pride of Frosinone! whombut a short time before I had beheld sportingin her father’s vineyard, so fresh, and beau-tiful, and happy! Her teeth were clenched;12her eyes fixed on the ground; her form■without motion, and in a state of absoluteinsensibility. 1 hung over her in an agonyof recollection at all that she had been, andof anguish at what I now beheld her. Idarted round a look of horror at my com¬panions, who seemed like so many fiendsexulting in the downfall of an angel! andI felt a horror at myself for being theiraccomplice.The captain, always suspicious, saw, withhis usual penetration, what was passingwithin me, and ordered me to go upon theridge of the woods, to keep a look-out overthe neighbourhood, and await the return ofthe shepherd. I obeyed, of course, stiflingthe fury that raged within me, though 1felt for the moment that he was ray mostdeadly foe.On my way, however, a ray of reflectioncame across my mind. I perceived that the■captain wras but following, with strictness,the terrible laws to which we had swornfidelity. That the passion by which I hadbeen blinded might, with justice, have beenfatal to me, but for his forbearance; thathe had penetrated my soul, and had takenprecautions, by sending me out of the way,to prevent my committing any excess in myanger. From that instant I felt that I wascapable of pardoning him.13Occupied with these thoughts, I arrivedat the foot of the mountain. The countrywas solitary and secure, and in a short timeI beheld the shepherd at a distance crossingthe plain. I hastened to meet him. Hehad obtained nothing. He had found thefather plunged in the deepest distress. Hehad read the letter with violent emotion, andthen calming himself with a sudden exertion,he had replied coldly,'“My daughter liasbeen dishonoured by those wretches: let herbe returned without ransom, or let her die !”■ I shuddered at this reply. I knew, ac¬cording to the laws of our troop, her deathwras inevitable. Our oaths required it. Ifelt, nevertheless, that not having been ableto have her to myself, I could become herexecutioner!The robber again paused with agitation.I sat musing upon his last frightful words,which proves to what excess the passionsmay be carried when escaped from all moralrestraint. There was a horrible verity inthis story that reminded me of some of thetragic fictions of Dante.We now come to a fatal moment, resum¬ed the bandit. After the report of theshepherd, I returned with him, and thechieftain received from his lips the refusalof the father.At a signal, which we all understood.14we followed him to some distance from thevictim. He there pronounced her sentenceof death. Every one stood ready to executehis order; but I interfered. I observedthat there was something- due to pity as wellas to justice. That I was as ready as anyone to approve the implacable law, whichwas to serve as a warning to all those whohesitated to pay the ransoms demanded forour prisoners ; but that though the sacrificewas proper, it ought to be made withoutcruelty. The night is approaching, con¬tinued I; she will soon be wrapped in sleep;let her then be dispatched. All I nowclaim on the score of former fondness forher is, let me strike the blow. I will do itas surely, but more tenderly than another.Several raised their voices against my pro¬position, but the captain imposed silence onthem. He told me I might conduct herinto a thicket at some distance, and he reliedupon my promise.I hastened to seize upon my prey. Therewas a forlorn kind of triumph at having atlength become her exclusive possessor. Ibore her off into the thickness of the forest.She remained in the same state of insensi¬bility and stupor. I wras thankful that shodid not recollect me; for had she once mur¬mured my name, I should have been over¬come. She slept at length in the arms ofhim who was to poniard her. Many werethe conflicts I underwent before I couldbring myself to strike the blow. But myheart had become sore by the recent conflictsit had undergone, and I dreaded lest, byprocrastination, some other should becomeher executioner. When her repose hadcontinued for some time, I separated myselfgently from her, that I might not disturbher sleep, and seizing suddenly my poinard,plunged it into her bosom. A painful andconcentrated murmur, but without any con¬vulsive movement, accompanied her lastsigh.—So perished this unfortunate I16-PUSS IN BOOTS.There was a miller who had three sons,and when he died he divided what he pos¬sessed among them in the following manner:—He g-ave his mill to the eldest, his ass t<the second, and his cat to the youngest.Each of the brothers accordingly tookwhat belonged to him without the help of anattorney, who would soon have brought theirlittle fortune to nothing in law-expenses.The poor young fellow who had notliingbut the cat complained that he was hardlyused : u My brothers,” said he, u by join¬ing their stocks together, may do very wellin the world; but for me, when I have eatenmy cat, and made a fur-cap of his skin, Imay soon die of hunger!”The cat, which all this time satlisteningjustinside the door of a cupboard, now venturedto come out, and addressed him as follows :“ Do not thus afflict yourself, my goodmaster; you have only to give me a bag-,and get a pair of boots made for me, sothat 1 may scamper through the dirt andthe brambles, and you shall see that you arenot so ill provided for as you imagine.”Though the cat’s master did not muchu.17depend upon these promises, yet, as he hadoften observed the cunning tricks Puss usedto catch rats and mice, such as hanging bythe hindlegs, and hiding in the meal tomake them believe that he was dead, he didnot entirely despair of his being of someuse to him in his unhappy condition.When the cat had obtained what he askedfor, he gaily began to equip himself; hedrew on the boots—and putting the bagabout his neck, he took hold of strings withhis forepaws, and, bidding his master takecourage, immediately sallied forth.The first attempt Puss made was to gointo a warren, in which there was a greatnumber of rabbits. He put some bran andsome parsley into his bag; and then,stretching himself out at full length as ifhe was dead, he waited for some youngrabbits, (which as yet knew nothing of thecunning tricks of the world) to come andget into the bag, the better to feast upon thedainties he had put into it.Scarcely had he lain down before he suc¬ceeded as well as could be wished. A giddyyoung rabbit crept into the bag, and the catimmediately drew the strings, and killedhim without mercy. 1Puss, proud of his prey, hastened directlyto the palace, where he asked to speak tothe king. On being shown into the apart-18 e   ment of his majesty, he made a low bow,and said,—<£ I have brought you, sire, thisrabbit from the warren of my lord the mar¬quis of Carabas, who commanded me topresent it to your majesty with the assuranceof his respect.” This was the title the catthought proper to bestow, upon his master.££ Tell my lord marquis of Carabas,” re¬plied the king, u that I accept of his presentwith pleasure, and that I am greatly obligedto him.”Soon after the cat laid himself down inthe same manner in a field of corn, andhad as much good fortune as before; fortwo fine partridges got into his bag, whichhe immediately killed and carried to thepalace. The king received them as he haddone the rabbit, and ordered his servants togive the messenger something to drink. Inthis manner he continued to carry presentsof game to the king from my lord marquisof Carabas, once at least every week.One day, the cat having heard that theking intended to take a ride that morningby the river side with his daughter, who wasthe most beautiful princess in the world, hesaid to his master,—ii If you will but fol¬low my advice your fortune is made. Takeoff your clothes, and bathe yourself in theriver, just in the place I shall show you,and leave the rest to me.”The marquis of Carabas did exactly ashe was desired, without being able to guessat what the cat intended. While he wasbathing the king passed by, and Pussdirectly called out as loud as he could bawl,—“Help! help! my lord marquis ofCarabas is in danger of being drowned!”The Icing hearing the cries, put his headout at the window of his carriage to seewhat was the matter; when, perceivingthe very cat which had brought him so manypresents, he ordered his attendants to godirectly to the assistance of my lord marquisof Carabas.While they were employed in taking themarquis out of the river, the cat ran to theking’s carriage and told his majesty, thatwhile his master was bathing, some thieveshad run off with his clothes as they lay bythe river side, the cunning cat all the timehaving hid them under a large stone.The king hearing this, commanded theofficers of his wardrobe to fetch one of thehandsomest suits it contained, and present itto my lord marquis of Carabas, at the sametime loading him with a thousand attentions.As the fine clothes they brought him madehim look like a gentleman, and set off hisperson, which was very comely, to thegreatest advantage, the king’s daughterwas mightily taken with his appearance,and the marquis of Carahas had no soonercast upon her two or three respectful glances,than she became violently in love with him.The king insisted on his getting into thecarriage, and taking a ride with them.The cat, enchanted to see how well hisecheme was likely to succeed, ran before to ameadow that was reaping, and said to thereapers,—il Good people, If you do not tellthe king, who will soon pass this way, thatthe meadow you are reaping belongs to mylord marquis of Carabas, you shall be chop¬ped as small as minced meat”The king did not fail to ask the reapersto whom the meadow belonged.—u To mylord marquis of Carabas,” said they all atonce; for the threats of the cat had terriblyfrightened them. “You have hear a veryfine piece of land, my lord marquis,” saidtlie king. “Truly, sire,” replied he, “itdoes not fail to bring me every year a plen¬tiful harvest.”The cat, which still went on before, nowcame to a field where some other labourerswere making sheaves of the corn they hadreaped, to whom he said as before,—“Goodpeople, if you do not tell the king, who willpresently pass this way, that the corn yothave reaped in this field belongs to my lordmarquis of Carabas, you shall be choppedas small as minced meat.”21>' l The king ccordingly passed a momentafter, and inquired to whom the corn he sawbelonged.—u To my lord marquis of Cara-bas,” answered they very glibly; uponwhich the king again complimented themarquis on his noble possessions.The cat still continued to go before, andgave the same charge to all the people hemet with; so that the king was greatlyastonished at the splendid fortune of my lordmarquis of Carabas.Puss at length arrived at a stately castle,which belonged to an Ogre, the richest everknown ; for all the lands the king had passedthrough and admired were his. The cattook care to learn every particular about theOgre, and what he could do, and then askedto speak with him, saying, as he enteredthe room in which he was, that he could notpass so near his castle without doing himselfthe honour to inquire for his health.The Ogre received him as civilly as anOgre could do, and desired him to be seated.“ I have been informed,” said the cat,u that you have the gift of changing your¬self into all sorts of animals; into a lion,or an elephant, for example.”—u It is verytrue,” replied the Ogre somewhat sternly;“and to convince you, I will directly takethe form of a lion.”—The cat was so muchterrified at finding himself so near a lion,22that he sprang from him, and climbed tothe roof of the house; but not without muchdifficulty, as his boots were not very fit towalk upon the tiles.Some minutes after, the cat perceivingthat the Ogre had quitted the form of a lion,ventured to come down from the tiles, andowned that he had been a good deal fright¬ened. 111 have been further informed,'continued the cat, “ but I know not how Ubelieve it, that you have the power of takingthe form of the smallest animals also; forexample, of changing yourself to a rat or amouse; I confess I should think this mustbe impossible.”—“Impossible! you shallsee;” and at the same instant he changedhimself into a mouse, and began to friskabout the room. The cat no sooner casthis eyes upon the Ogre in this form, thanhe sprang upon him, and devoured him inan instant.In the mean time the king, admiring, ashe came near it, the magnificent castle ofthe Ogre, ordered his attendants to drive upto the gates, as he wished to take a nearerview of it. The cat, hearing the noise ofthe Carriage on the drawbridge, immediatelycame out, saying,—“ Your majesty is wel¬come to the castle of my lord marquis ofCarabas.”—“And is this splendid castleyour’s also, my lord marquis of Carabas ?—23I never saw any thing- more stately than thebuilding, or more beautiful than the parkand pleasure-grounds around it; no doubtthe castle is no less magnificent within thanwithout; pray, my lord marquis, indulgeme with a sight of it.”The marquis gave his hand to the youngprincess as she alighted, and followed theking, who went before;—they entered aspacious hall, where they found a splendidcollation which the Ogre had prepared forsome friends he had that day expected tovisit him; but who, hearing that the kingwith the princess and a great gentleman ofthe court were within had not dared to enter.The king was so much charmed with theamiable qualities and noble fortune of themarquis of Carabas, and the young princesstoo had fallen so violently in love with him,that when the king had partaken of thecollation, and drank a few glasses of wine,he said to the marquis,—u It will be yourown fault, my lord marquis of Carabas, ifyou do not soon become my son-in-law.”The marquis received the intelligence witha thousand respectful acknowledgments,accepted the honour confered upon him, andmarried the princess that very day.The cat became a great lord, and neverafter ran after rats and mice but for hisamusement.ANCEDOTE.THE LAWYER AND THE CHIMNEY-SWEEPER.-'*k v 1 ?/JJ"rj jjifO.bitrA roguish old lawyer was planning new sin.As he lay on his bed in a fit of the gout;The mails and the daylight were just coming in.The milkmaids and rush-lights werejust going out;When a chimney-sweep’s hoy, who had made a mis¬take.Came flop down the flue with a clattering rush.And bawl’d, as he gave his black muzzle a shake,“ My master’s a-coming to give you a brush.”4‘ If that be the case,” said the cunning old elf,“ There’s no time to lose—it is high time toflee.—Ere he gives me a brush, I will brush nfi myself-—If I wait for the devil—the devil take me !”So he limp'd to the door without saying his prayers;But Old Nick was too deep to be nick’d of .hisprey; _For the knave broke his neck by a tumblestairs.And thus ran to the devil by'running away.V--- ■■■ > v ... .UC TV' 13FINIS.