THESWEARER’S PRAYER ;OR,HIS OATH EXPLAINED.[What! a Swearer pray! Yes, Swearer, whether tlioui thinkest so or not, each of thine oaths is a prayer,—anappeal to the Holy and Almighty God, whose name thoujdarest so impiously to take into thy lips,j And what is it, thinkest thou, Swearer, that thou dostcall for, when the awful imprecations, Damn, and Domna-\tioH, roll so frequently from thy profane tongue? Trem¬ble, Swearer, while I tell thee ! Thy prayer containethtwo parts : Thou prayest first, that thou raayest be de¬prived of eternal happiness! Secondly, that thou mayestbe plunged into eternal misery!When, therefore, thou callest for damnation, dost thounot, in effect, say as follows ? “ O God! thou hast power;to punish me in Hell for ever: therefore, let not one of:my sins be forgiven ! Let every oath that I have sworn—levery lie that I have told—every Sabbath that I haveibroken, and all the sins that I have committed, either in(thought, word, or deed, rise up in judgment against me,land eternally condemn me ! Let me never partake of thy(salvation! May my soul and body be deprived of all hap¬piness, both in this world and that which is to come! Letme never see thy face with comfort—never enjoy thy fa¬vour and friendship; and let me never enter into the king¬dom of heaven!”This is the first part of thy prayer Let us hear thesecond.“ O God, let me not only be shut aid of Heaven, butalso shut up in Hell! May all the members of my body3e tortured with inconceivable agony, and all the powers)f my soul tormented with horror and despair, inexpressi-)le and eternal! Let my dwelling be in the blackness oflarkness, and my companions accursed men and accursed■HH2THE SWEAREJRS PRAYER.devils! Pour down thy hottest anger; execute all thy wrathand curse upon me ; arm and send forth all thy terrors a-gainst me; and let thy fierce, thy fiery, thy fearful indig*nation, rest upon me! Be mine eternal enemy, and plague,and punish, and torment me, in Hell, for ever, and ever,'and ever !!!”Swearer, this is thy prayer !!! O dreadful imprecation !O horrible, horrible, most horrible ! Blaspheming man !.Dost thou like thy petition ? Look at it. Art thou sincerein thy prayer, or art thou mucking thy Maker ? Dost thouwish for damnation ? art thou desirous of eternal torment?If so, swear on—swear hard. The more oaths, the moremisery ; and, perhaps, the sooner thou mayst be in hell.—Art thou shocked at this language ?■ Does it harrow upthy sou]? Does thy very blood run cold in thy veins ? Artthou convinced of the evil of profane swearing ? Howmany times hast thou blasphemed the God of Heaven ?How many times hast thou asked God to damn thee inthe course of a year, a month, a day? Nay, how manytimes in a single hour hast thou called for damnation ? Artthou not yet in Hell? ^Vender, O heavens and be astonish¬ed, O earth, at the goodness and long-suffering of that Godwhose great name swearing persons so often and so aw¬fully profane ! Swearer, be thankful, oh ! be exceedinglythankful, that God has not answered thy prayer! thytremendous prayer; that his mercy and patience have with-holden the request of thy polluted lips ! Never let himhear another oath from thy unhallowed tongue, lest itshould be thy last expression upon earth, and thy swear¬ing prayer should be anstvered in Hell. Oh ! let thineoaths be turned into supplications ! Bcpcnt, and turn to:Jesus, who died for swearers as well as for his murderers.!And then, oh ! then, (though thou mayest have sworn asmany oaths as there are “ stars in the heavens, and sandsupon the sea-shcre innumerable,”) then thou shall find tothy eternal joy, that there is love enough in his heart, andmerit sufficient in his blood, to pardon thy sms, and savethy soul for ever—Swearer ! canst thou ever againbl&spheme such a God and Saviour as this ? Does notthy conscience cry—God forbid? Even so, Amen.THE SWEARER’S PRAYER.3THE PRAYER ANSWERED,In the following, amonv multitudes of other instances.In November, 1786, a person much given to swearing,being disappointed by one of his companions not return-i ing to the public-house as soon as he expected, swore hewould never drink with 1dm again, and that it he did, itshould be his lust. Accordingly, that day wns his last.—’ God took him at his word, and thus called him into eter-In November, 1787, one W—rs, a smith, spending theevening at a public-house, in Leather-lane, quarrelled with. one of his companions, and while swearing one of themost horrid oaths, God struck him instantaneously dead,with an oath on his lips, upon the bench where he wassitting. The Jury who sat upon the body, after hearingall the circumstances of the case, brought in their verdictthat W rs was struck dead as a judgment from God.—This narration was given by the foreman of the jury.Another remarkable judgment overtook a person livingin Brewer-street, Soho, who, cursing and swearing in amost dreadful manner, was struck speechless, and diedthe same afternoon. Will s Register.T. G. who lived in the parish of Sedgley, near Wol¬verhampton, having lost a considerable sum at cock-fight¬ing, to which practice be was notoriously addicted, sworein a most horrid manner, that he would never fight an¬other cock, frequently calling upon God to damn his soulto all eternity if he did; and, with dreadful imprecations,wishing the Devil might fetch him, if ever he made an¬other bet;His resolution, thus impiously formed, was for a whileobserved, but about two years afterwards, Satan, whosewilling servant he continued to be, inspired him with aviolent desire to attend a cocking at Wolverhampton, andhe complied with the temptation. He there stood up, andcried, “ I hold four to three on such a cock.” “ Fourwhat ?” said one of his companions in iniquity. “ Four. mty.4THE SWEARER’S PRAYER.shillings,” replied he. Upon which the wager was con-1firmed, and he, putting his hand into his pocket for the fmoney, instantly Jell a ghastly corpse upon the ground. [Evangelical Magazine..Besides these horrid oaths which shock every decentear, there is a vicious habit indulged by many persons,otherwise moral, and among these, even ladies themselves, :,of a thoughtless profanation of their Maker’s name, on ac- (casions the most trivial, as when they say, “ Good God ! 1God forbid ! God bless us ! O Lord,” &c. &c. Such lan¬guage proceeds from want of reverence for the best of Be¬ings, and is as direct a violation of that command, “ Thoushall not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain,” asthe most vulgar and profane oath.fVho hath hardened himself against God and prospered ?Job. ix. 4.Thou shall not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain,for the Lord ivill not hold him guiltless that taketh his namein vain. Exod. xx. 7.< ■Because of swearing the land mourneth. Jer. xxiii. 40.Every one that sweareth shall he cut off. Zech. v. 3.It grieves me much to hear the Blest SupremeRudely appeal’d to on each trifling theme;Cease from this vice, to be profane despise,To swear is neither brave, polite, nor wise.Would you dare swear upon a bed of death ?Reflect! this moment God may stop your breath 1How should you then that condemnation dreadWhich oft you’ve call’d upon your guilty head,And often wish’d on friends and foes to fall ?O! change your mind, and now for mercy call.Dear Reader, art thou a Swearer ? Oh ! take this friend¬ly warning ; the next oath may be thy last: if thy prayeris heard, thy soul is damned for ever!!!Printed for G. Caldwell, jun. Bookseller and Stationer, Paisley.