T H£VERMIN-KILLER,:BEINGA very necefTary Family-Book,CONTAINING(Exaft Rules and Directions for theartificial killing and deftroying allmanner of Vermin, viz.B U G S. RATS mcl MICEMOLESWEASLESSNAKE.SFLEASG ATTERPILL ARS'FLIES.\Vhereunto is added,| The Art of taking all kinds of Fishand Fowl, with many other thingsnever before known.ABERDEEN^:. tPrinted by A.Tmlay, No. 3. George Street.14jt\0WL Lltf^W^ OF SCOTLAND ^^o»Naunoj!5-THEVERMIN-KILLER. *To Kill Bugs.r^j'^AKE a convenient quantity of frefli tar, mixf it with the juice of wild cucumber, let itHand a day or two, ftirring it four or five times ina day, then anoint the bed-fteacls with it, and all thebugs will die.Another.—Take fquilly beaten to powder, mixed!with the beft wine vinegar, then take a fpunge and!wet it in. it, and rub the bedfteads, and it will killthe bugs.CHAP. I.To Kill Ruts anti Mice.^THAKEJL Hour,hellebore leaves mix it with wheatmake it into a fiiff pafte with live ho-ney, and lay it into the holes where the rates andmfee come, and when they have eal of it, it is piefent death.. Another.—Take bitter almonds and wheat fioitrmix it into a ftiff pafte, and lay it as befdie, and rJiiUeth the mts and mice.: •Tk- ' Hi} . ' ' ' ''. r%- ^ "  • >■( 3 )To drive away Rats and Mice from a Houfe, orother places.Another.—Take the head of a rat or monfe, pul!the {kin off it, take off its head, and carry it to theplace where the mice and rats ufually come, andthey will immediately be gone from thence, runningall together as if they were bewitched, and dfeneno more.To gather together all the Rats and Mice into oneplace in a Houfe or Barn, and to kill the?n.Take a brafs or copper pot, as big as you can get,and put into it the dregs of oil, about half full, andfet it in the moft convenient place in the houfe,about the middle, and all the rats 'and mice willmoke their appearance, as if it w'ere to be an al-fembly of an army of rats and mice, and you maythen draw about the place pot aflies, and it killsthem all.Another.—Take two or threeTiving rads or mice’,and gut them into an earthen pot, then (lop the potclofe, that the rats or mice cannot come forth, thenmake a fire of aflien tree wood, and place the poton the fire, when it burnclh moderately, and all thprats and mice in the houfe, hearing‘the cry of thofein the pot, will run immediately to the place wherethe pot ftandeth on the fire, as if they did intend byforce to deliver the rats and mice in the pot.( 4 )CHAP. II.To Catch Moles.IF you defire to catch Moles, lay before themole holes a head of garlic or onion, andthey will immediately forfake their holes, and may¬be taken by a dog.*To gather Moles together to one Place.Take a living mole, put her in an earthen pot,and Hop the pot clofe, and make a fire of wood orcoals in the place where you would gather themoles together, and fet the pot on the fire, and im¬mediately all the moles will gather to the pot, hear¬ing the mole in the pot cry, and you may killthem.To Kill Moles.Take white hellebore bruifed very fmall, mixwith it white flour, the white of an egg, milk and -wine, and lay little cakes of it in the mouth of theholes, and the moles will greedily eat -of it, and itcertainly kills them.Another.—Take the juice of wild cucumber,and pour it into their holes, aud it killeth them.. Another.—Take the drugs of oil, and pour it in¬to their holes, and they die very quickly.C 5 )* -w i sCHAP. IILTo Kill Weajles.TAKE foot almonack and wheat flour, mix itinto a pafte, with honey, and throw it intofuch places where the weafles ufually come, theygreedily eat it, and it quickly killeth.them. >%To drive away Weajles.You muft catch a hedge-living weafle, and cutout his flones, und cut his tail fliort, and let himrun, and all the others, be they few or many, \villrun away, and provide habitations elfewhere.To prevent Wsajlcs from fucking of Eggs.Take rue, and lay it abqut the places where thehens lay, and the vveafles will not come near it.CHAP. IV.* To drive the Snakes and Adders out of theGarden.PLANT in feveral places of the garden worm¬wood, and they will not frequent the garden.Another Take the roots of centaury, and theywill depart.Another.—Take lily roots or hart’s horn, or agoat’s clow, and fmoke the places with either ofthem burning in a fire pan, and they will departand come no more.Another Take deer fuet, and ft raw it up anddown where they ufually come, and they will de¬part from the place.AKE wormwood and the root of wild cu¬cumber, and boil them in pickle, and fprinkleit in the room, and it will certainly kill the fleas.Another.—Take foap lees, and boil two or threeonions in it, let it cool, then fprinkle the room withit, and it kills the fleas.Another Take lime beaten to powder, andftraw it in the chambers.Another Take lee and ftie-goat’s milk, and itis an infallible remedy.Another Take the lees of oil, aud fprinkle theroom .with it, and it is a certain remedy.To gather all the Fleas together that are in the Room.Take an earthen platter or difti, that is broad andftiallow, fill the fame with goat’s blood half full,and fet the platter under the bed, and all the fleaswill gather to it, if you lay it in the middle of aCHAP. V.To Kill Fleas.(7)CHAP. VI.To Kill Cutter pillars.TAKE fig leaves allies, and call it on tfre root,and it deftroys the catterpillars.Another.—Take ox pifs, and lees of oil, and boilthem together, and it kills the catterpillar infallibly,if you call it Upon the trees or bullies where theyare.Another.—Take a gallon of crabs, and fteep themten days in water, and fprinkle the trees with thewater, and it kills the catterpillar.Another.—Take Iheep’s dung, and a fmall quan¬tity of tar, mix it with chamberlee, and apply itmorning and evening to the root, flalk, or branchinfefted with catterpillars, and in a very Ihort timeit certainly kills them.Another Take a quart of the morning dew, and-mix in it verdegreafe, or for want of that, takefuch a quantity of the juice of four crabs, and mixa little verdegreafe in it, fprinkle the root, branch,or place fo infected, and it certainly kills them.<*• •CHAP. VII.To Kill Flies,,'T‘,AKE all um and origanum, beat them, andmix them with milk, and fpvinkle them asbefore.Another Take white hellebore, and deep it Infweet milk, mix with it orpiment, and fprinkle th",room, and places where the flies come, and theywill all die.To gethcr the Flies together.Take a deep earthen pot, and lay in It beatencollander and all the flies in the houfe lhall be ga¬thered together.To keep Cattle front injury by Flies.Anoint the bealt with oil, wherein bakeler hathbeen boiled, and the flies fliall not come near him.CHAP. VIII.The Art of taking Fijh.TAKE the blood of a black goat, mix it withthe lees of wine and wheat flour into a pafte,and throw the pafte ipto the water.Another Take mutton fuet and garlick, mix itwith red wine, and make it into a pafte, caft it intothe water as before. ^To take Fi/b with your hands.Take half a pound of cocks ftone, and twoounces of pingelon, beat them together, and ufethem as before.■ - * ' A. Imlay, Printer, Aberdeen.