: &3S$3i$3gd3S$3i*iees3@g£^ 7THE ^E.IFE IPROPHECIES,Sts•©>m,umu’ || ALEXANDER PEBEXgm mI ^ ^ 1PRINTED FOTt THET1ISLIFE AND PROPHECIESOFAliEXANBER PEDEN.T!!at r«ost excellent minister of the gospel, andfaithful defender of the Presbyterian Religion,M it. Alexander Peden, was born in the parishof Sorn, near Ayr. After his course at the Col¬lege, he was sometime school-master, precentor,and session-clerk to Mr. John Guthrie, ministerof the gospel at Tarbolton. When he was aboutto enter on the ministry, a young woman fellwith child, in adultery, to a se*yant in the housewhere she stayed ; when she found herself to beso, she told the father thereof, who said, I’ll ranfor it, and go to Ireland, father it upon Mr. Pe¬den, he has more to ’_.elp you to bring it up (liehaving a small he/it age) than I have. The sameday that he was to get his licence, she came inbefore the Presbytery and said, I hear you are tolicence Mr. Peden, to be a minister; bat do itnot, for I am with child to him. He beingwithout at the time, was called in by the moder¬ator ; “being questioned about it, he said, I3am ntterly siu-priaed*, I cannot speak ; but lot noneentertain an ill thought of me, for I am utterlyfree of it, and God will vindicate me in his owntime and way. He went home, and walked at awater-side upwards of 24 hours, and w ould nei¬ther eat nor drink, but said, I have got what Iwas seeking, and I will be vindieated, and thatjjoor unhappy Iass will pay dear for it in her life,and will make a dismal end ; and for this surfeitof grief that she hath given me, there shall neverone of her sex come into my bosom ; and, accord- jingly he never married. There are various re¬ports of the way that he was vindicated ; somesay, the time she was in child-birth, Mr. Guthriecharged her to give account who was the fatherof that child, and discharged the women to be ,helpful to her, until she did it: some say, thatshe confessed : others, that she remained obstin¬ate. Some of the people w hen I made enquiryabout it in that country-side, affirmed, that thePresbytery had been at all pains about it, andcould get no satisfaction, they appointed MrGuthrie to give a full relation of the whole be¬fore the congregation, which he did ; and thesame day the father of the child being present,whe/n he heard Mr. Guthrie begin to speak, hestood up, and desired him to halt, and said, I am,thf father of that child, and I desired her to fa- !.efe4dier it on Mr. Peclea, which hms been a greattrouble of conscience to me ; and I could not getrest till I came home to declare it. However itis certain, that after she was married, every thingwent cross to them } and they went from place toplace* and were reduced to great poverty. Atlast she came to that same spot of ground wherehe stayed upwards of 24 hours, and made awaywith herself!2. After this he was three years settled min¬ister at New Glenluce in Galloway; and whenhe was obliged, by the violence and tyranny ofthat time, to leave that parish, he lectured uponActs xx. 17. to the end, and preached upon the31st. verse in the forenoon, ‘ Therefore watch,and remember that for the space of three years Iceased not to warn every one, night and day,with tears:’ Asserting that he had declaredthewhole counsel of God, and had kept nothing backand protested that he was free of the blood of allsouls. And, in the afternoon he preached on the32d verse, ‘ And now, brethren, I command youto God, and to the word of his grace, w'hich isable to build you up, and to give you an inher¬itance among all them that arc sanctified.’Which was a w eeping day in that lurk ; the great¬est part could not contain themselves : He manytimes requested them to be silent; Inst they vor-5rowed most of all when he told them that theyshould never see his face in that pulpit again.He continued until night; and when he closedthe pulpit-door he knocked hard upon it threetimes with his Bible, saying three times over, Iarrest in my Master’s name, that never one enterthere, but such as come in by the door, as I did.Accordingly, neither curate nor indulged minis¬ter ever entered that pulpit, until after the revolu¬tion, that a Presbyterian minister opened it.3. After this he joined with that honest andzealous handful in the year 1666, that was brokenat Pentland-hills, and came the length of Clydewith them, where he had a melancholy view oftheir end, and parted with them there. JamesCubison, of Paluchbeaties, my informer, to whomhe told this, he said to him, ‘ Sir, you did wellthat parted with them, seeing you was persuadedthey would fall and flee before the enemy Gloryglory to God, that he sent me not to hell im¬mediately ! for I should have stayed with themthough I should have been cut all in pieces.4. That night the Lord’s people fell, and fledbefore the enemy at Pentland-hills, he was in a )jou£friend’s house in Garrick, sixty miles from Edin* ^ tjieburgh; his landlord seeing him mightily troubled,enquired how it was with him ; he said,' To mor- ^5©w I will speak with you,'and desired some can-6(tie. That night he went to bed. The nextmorning calling early to his landlord, said, ‘ Ihare sad news to tell you, our friends that weretogether in arms, appearing for Christ’s interest,are now broken, killed, taken, and fled everyman. ’—the truth of which was fully verified inabout 48 hours thereafter.5. After this, in June 1673, he was taken byMajor Cockburn, in the house of Hugh Fergu-** son, of Knockdow, in Garrick, who constrainedhim to tarry all night. Mr. Peden told him thatit would be a dear night to them both. Accord¬ingly they were both carried prisoners to Edin¬burgh, Hugh Ferguson was fined in a thousandmerks, for resetting, harbouring, and conversingwith him. The Council ordered fifty poundssterling to be paid to the Major out of the fines,and ordained him to divide twenty-five poundssterling among* the party that apprehended him.Some time after examination he was sent prisonerto the Bass, where, and at Edinburgh, he re¬mained until December, 1668, that he was ban¬ished.6. While prisoner in the Bass, one Sabbath*morning being about the public worship of God;a young lass, about 13 or 14 years of age, camete the chamber-door mocking with loud laugj^to*': He said, ‘ Poor thin#, ttau weeks andqlaughs at the worship of God, but ere long Godshall write such a sudden, surprising judgmenton thee, that shall stay thy laughing, and thoushalt not escape it.’ Very shortly after, she waswalking upon the rock, and there came a blastof wind and sweeped her into the sea, where sheperished. While prisoner there, one day walkingupon the rock, some soldiers passing by him, oneof them said, Devil take him. He said, Fy, fy,poor man, thou know'est not what thou art saying;but thou wilt repent that.—At which word thesoldier stood astonished, and went to the guarddistracted, crying aloud for Mr. Peden, saying,the devil would immediately take him away. Hecame to him again, and found him in his rightmind under deep convictions of great guilt. Theguard being to change, they desired him to goto his arms; he refused, and said, he would liftno arms against Jesus Christ his cause, and per¬secute his people, he had done that too long. Thegovernor threatened him with death, to-morrowabout ten of the clock ; he confidently said, threetimes, though he should tear all his body in pie¬ces, he should never lift arms that way. Aboutthree days after, the governor put him out of thegarrison, setting him ashore. He having a wifeand children, took a house in East Lothian,whero he Wcantc a singular Christian. Mr. Pe-8den told tliese astonishing passages to the fore-said John Cubison and others, who informedme.7. When brought from the Bass to Edinburgh and sentence of banishment passed uponhim, in Dec. 1678. and sixty more fellow-pris¬oners, for the same cause, to go to America, ne¬ver to be seen in Scotland again, under the painof death; after this sentence was past, he severaltimes said, that the ship was not yet built thatshould take him and these prisoners to Virginia;or any other of the English plantations in A-merica One James Kay, a solid and graveChristian, being one of them, who lives in orabout the Water of Leith, told me, that Mr. Pe-den said to him, ‘ James, when your wife comes, in, let me see herwhich he did—After somediscourse, he called for a drink, and when hesought a blessing, he said. £ Good Lord, let notJames Kay’s wife miss her husband, till thou re¬turn him to her in peace and safety; which wreare sure will be sooner than either he or she is look¬ing for.’ Accordingly, the same day-month thathe parted with her at Leith, he came home toher at the Water of Leith.8. When they were on shipboard at the Wa¬ter of Leith, there was a report that the enemieswere to send down thumbkins to keep them from9rebelling; at die report of this, they were (fis-eouraged: Mr. Peden came above the deck andsaid, ‘ Why are ye discouraged ? You need notfear, there will neither tbumbkins nor bootkinscome here : lift up your hearts and heads, for theday of your redemption draweth near; if we wereonce at London, we will be set at liberty.’—Andwhen sailing on the voyage, praying publicly, hesaid, ‘ Lord, such is the enemies hatred at theeand malice at us for thy lake, that they will notlet us stay in thy land of Scotland, to serve thee,though some of us have nothing but the canopyof thy heavens above us, and the earth to tread iupon; but, Lord, we bless thy name, that will jcut short our voyage, and frustrate thy enemiesof their wicked design, that they will not get uswhere they intend; and some of us shall go rich¬er home than we came from home.’ JamesPride, who lived in Fife, an honest man, beingone of them, he said many times, he could assertthe truth of this, for he came safely home; andbeside other things, he bought two cows: and be¬fore that, he never had one. I had these account®both from the foresaid James Kay and RobertPunton, a known public man, worthy of all credit,who was also under the same sentence, and livedin the parish of Dalmeny, near Queensferry.9. When they arrived at London, the skipper1Uwho received them at Leith, was to carry them nofurther. The skipper who was to receive themthere, and carry them to Virginia, came to seethem, they being represented to him as thieves,robbers, and evil-doers; but when he found theywere all grave Christian men, banished for Pres¬byterian principles, he said he would sail the seawith none such. In this confusion : that the oneskipper would not receive them, and the otherwould keep them no longer, being expensive t«maintain them they were all set at liberty. Somereported that both skippers got compliments fromfriends at London; however, it is certain theyW'ere all set free, without any imposition of bondsor oaths; and friends at London, and on theirway homewards, through England shewed muchkindness unto them.10. That dismal day, June 22d. 1679, atBothwel-bridge, that the Lord’s people fell, andfled before the enemy, he was forty miles distant,near the border, and kept himself retired until themiddle of the day, that some friends said to him,‘ Sir, the people are waiting for sermon.’ Hesaid, ‘ Let the people go to their prayers; forme, I neither can nor will preach any this day;for our friends are fallen, and fled before theenemy at Hamilton ; and they are hanging and11basMug- them down, and their bleed k> rmininglike water I ’11. After this, he was preaching in Galloway:in the forenoon he prayed earnestly for the pris¬oners taken at and about Bothwel; but in the af¬ternoon, when he began to pray for them, hehalted and said, ‘ Our friends at Edinburgh, theprisoners, have done something to save their livesthat shall not do with them, for the sea-billows4hall be many of their winding-sheets; and thefew of them that escape, shall not be useful toGod in their generation.' Which was sadly ver¬ified thereafter. That which the greatest part ofthese prisoners did, was the taking of that bond,eommonly called the Black Bond, after Bothwel,wherein they acknowledged their appearance inarms, for the defence of the gospel and their owuilives, to be rebellion; and engaged themselvesnever to make any more opposition : upon the do¬ing of which, these perfidious enemies promisedthem life and liberty. This with the cursed andsubtile arguments and advices of ministers, whowent into the New Yard, where they were pris¬oners, particularly Mr. Hugh Kenendy, Mr.• William Crighton, Mr. Edward Jamieson, andMr. George Johnston; these took their turn inthe yard where the prisoners were, together witha latter that was sent •from that Brastirm meetingef ministers, met at Edinburgh in August 1679,for the acceptance of a third indulgence, with acautionary bond. Notwithstanding of the ene¬mies’ promise, and the unhappy advice of min¬isters not indulged, after they were ensnared inthis foul compliance, they banished 255, whereof205 perished in the Orkney-sea. This foul step,ns some of them told, both in their life, and whendying, lay heavy upon them all their days; andthat these unhappy arguments and advices of min¬isters, prevailed more with them than the ene¬mies’ promise of life and liberty- In August1679, fifteen of the Bothwel-prisoners got indict¬ments of death. Mr. Edward Jamieson, aworthy Presbyterian minister, as Mr. Woodrowcalls him, was sent from that Erastian meetingof ministers into the Tolbooth to these fifteen,who urged the lawfulness of taken the bond tosave their lives ; and the refusal of it would be areflection to religion, and the cause they had ap¬peared for, and a throwing away their lives, forwhich their friends would not be able to vindicatethem. He prevailed with thirteen of them, whichsoured in the stomachs of some of those thirteen,and lay heavy upon them both in their life anddeath. The prisoners taken at and about thetime of Bothwel, were reckoned about fifteenhundred. The faithful Mr. John Blackader didlawiite to these prisoners, dissuading them fromthat foul compliance; and some worthy personsof these prisoners, whom he wrote to, said to mewith tears, that they slighted hist advice, andswallowed the unhappy advices of these minis¬ters who were making peace with the enemies ofGod, and followed their foul steps, for which theyw ould go mourning to their graves, I heard thesame Mr. Blackader preach his last public ser¬mon before falling into the enemies’ hands in thenight-time in the "fields, in the parish of Living¬stone, upon the side of the Muir, at New-house,on the 23d. of March, after Bothwel, where helectured upon Micah iv. from the 9th. verse, wherehe asserted, That the nearer the delivery, ourpains and showers would come thicker and sorerupon us; and that we had been long in the fields,but ere we wrere delivered, we would go down toBabylon ; that either Popery would overspreadthis land, or be at the breaking in upon us likeon inundation of water. And preached uponthat text, ‘ Let no man be moved with theseafflictions, for ye yourselves know, that ye are ap¬pointed thereunto.’ Where he insisted on whatmoving and shaking dispensations the Lord hadexercised his people with in former ages, especi¬ally that man of God, that went to Jeroboam atBethel, and delivered his commission faithfully14ftnd yet was turned out of the way by an old ly¬ing prophet; how moving and stumbling themanner of his death was to all Israel I And ear¬nestly requested us to take good heed to what■ministers we heard, and what advice we follow¬ed. When he prayed, he blessed the Lord thathe was free of both band and rope : and that hewas as clearly willing to hold up the public bleststandard of the gospel as ever: And said, TheLord rebuke, give repentance and forgiveness tothese ministers that persuaded these prisoners totake that bond. For their perishing by sea wasmore moving and shocking to him, than if somethousands of them had been slain in the field.He was thereafter taken, the 6th. of April, byMajor Johnston, in Edinburgh, and detainedprisoner in the Bass, where he, died. As the in¬terest of Christ lay near his heart through his life,amongst his last words'he said. The Lord will de¬fend his own cause.17. Shortly after that sad stroke at Bothwel.he went to Ireland, but did not stay long at thattime. In his travels through Galloway, he cameto a house, and looking in the goodman’s face, hesaid, They call you an honest man, but if yoube so, you look not like it, you will not longkeep that name, but will discover yourself to bewhat you are. And shortly after, he was made15! flee for sheep-steaiing. In that short time heis in Ireland, the Governor required of all•esbyterian ministers that were in Ireland, that’ ;y should give it under their hand, that theyd no accession to the late rebellion at Bothwel-: idge, in Scotland, and that they did not approve• it; which the most part did ; and sent Mr.ihomas Gowans, a Scotsman, and one Mr. Pa-n, from the north of Ireland to Dublin, to pre-ji nt it to the Lord Lieutenant: the which whenIr. Peden heard, he said, Mr. Gowans and hisMother Mr. Paton are sent and gone the davil’s•rand but God will arrest them by the gate.' ind accordingly, Mr. Gowans, by the way, was|;ruck with a sore sickness, and Mr. Paton fellI ;om his horse, and broke or crushed his leg; andi oth of them were detained beyond exj>ectation.! had this account from some worthy Christiansrhen I was in Ireland.! 18. In the year 1682. he married John Brownn Kyle, at his own house in Priesthall, that sin¬gular Christian, upon Marion Weir. After mar-iage; he said to the bride, Marion, you havejot a good man to be your husband, but youwill not enjoy him long : prize his company, andkeep linen by you for his winding-sheet, for youwill need it when you are not looking for it, andk will be a bloody one. This came sadly to passISin tlie beginning of May, 168 , a* affcerwaibhall appear.19. After this, in the year 1682, he wentIreland again, and came to the house of WilfiijSteel, in Glenvvharry, in the county of Antrinhe enquired at Mrs. Steel if she wanted a servafor threshing victual ? She said they did, and equired what Ms wages were a-day, or a-weeHe said, the common rate was a common rahto which she assented At night he w'as putbed, in the barn, with the servant-lad; and th;night he spent in prayer and groaning:, up ardown the barn. On the morrow1 he threshed vi*tual with the lad, and the next night he spent thsame w ay. The second day, in the morning, thlad said to his mistress, This man sleeps nons/but groans and prays all night; I get no sleep fchim : he threshes very well, and is not sparing chimself, tho’ I think he has not been used with itfor he can do nothing to the botteling and ordering of the barn; and when I put the barn in order, he goes to such a place, and there he prayfor the afflicted Church of Scotland, and nameso many in the furnace—He wrought the secomday, and his mistress watched and overheard hinpraying, as the lad had said.—At night she de¬sired her husband to enquire if he was a minister,which he did, and desired him to be free with17and he should not only be no enemy to him,a friend. Mr. Peden said, he was not asham->f his office; and gave an account of his cir-istances. He was no more set to work, nor toith the lad; and he staid a considerable time[hat place, and was a blessed instrument in the[version of some, and civilizing of others,ugh that place was noted for a wild rude peo-and the fruit of his labour appears unto thisThere was a servant-lass in that house,;t he could not look upon but with frowns : andictimes, when at family-worship, he.said, point-to her withfrowning countenance. Youfro/ft the barn and from the byre reeking in -ur lusts, and sits down among us; we do notint you, nor none such. At last he said toilliam Steel and his wife, Put that unhappy>s from your house, for she will be a stain to>ur family, for she is with child, and will mur-4r it, and will be punished for the same. Whichicordingly came to pass, and she was burnt at-arrick fergus, which is the punishment of mur-;rers of children there. I had this account from>hn Muirhead, who staid much in that house,id other Christian people, when in Ireland.20. After this, he longed to be out of Ire-ind, through the fearful apprehensions of thatkmal day < f rebellion in Ireland) that came up-ISaa it four years thereafter, and that hetake part with the sufferers m Scotland,came near the coast one morning: John Mihead came to him; lying within a hedge:said, Have you any news, John? JohnThere is great fear of the Irish rising. He saltno, no, John, the time of their arising is not yel kbut they will rise, and dreadful will it be at kd »rHe was long detained waiting for a bark, not dding to go to public parts, but to some remotcreek of the sea. Alexander Gordon of Kinstulin Galloway, had agreed with one, but Mr. P<den would not sail the sea with him, having son!foresight of what he did prove afterwards.—1 vthe beginning of August before this, Kinstuir wairelieved at Enterken-path, going from Dumfridito Edinburgh prisoner; when the news of it cam*to Ireland, our Scots sufferers, their acquaintancewere glad of the news, especially that Kinstuuhad escaped. Mr. Peden said, What means allthis Kinstuiiing ?—There is some of them re¬lieved there, that one of them is worth many othim; for ye will be ashamed of him ere all b«done. Being in this strait, he said to Rob«iWark, an old worthy Christian, worthy of credit,;Robert, go and take such a man with you andthe first Bark ye can find, compel them, for theywill be like the dogs in Egypt, eot one them19- ' wiU laoYa their tongue against you., According-; ly Robert and his comrade found it so and broughtl her to that secret place where he was. W heni Robert and his comrade came and told him, he1 was glad and very kind and free; but he seemedHii under a cloud at that time, he said lads, I haveJ lost my prospect wherewith I was wont to lookever to the bloody land, and tell you and others■ ! what enemies and friends were doing ; the deviland I puddles and rides time-about upon one an-tsi I other: but if I were uppermost again, I shall ride1 hard, and spurgaw well. I have been prayingy I for a swift passage over to the sinfid land, comeof us what will: and now Alexander Gordon is: away with my prayer-wind ; but it were good forthe remnant in Scotland he never saw it; for asthe Lord lives,’ he shall wound that interest er§he go off the stage This sadly came to pass inhis life, and was a reproach to it at his death. 'Alittle before they came off, he baptised a child toJohn Maxwell, a Glasgow man, who was fledover from the persecution: in his discourse be¬fore baptism, he burst out into a rapture, fore¬telling that black day that was to eome uponIreland, and sad days to Scotland, and after allthere was to come good days. Mrs. Maxwell, orMary Elnbingston, the mother of the child, yetalive'in Gda-sgow, told me this. That hi the timeho was asserting these things, she was thinkingand wondering what ground of assurance he hadfor them, when he cried aloud shaking his handat her, woman, thou art thinking and wonderingwithin thyself, whether I be speaking these thingsout of the visons of my own head, or if I be taughtby the Spirit of God; I tell the, woman, thoushalt live and see that I am not mistaken. Shetold me, that she was very lately delivered, andout of her great desire to have her child baptisedbefore he came olf, that she took travail too soon ;and being weak, and so surprised with his tellingher the thoughts of her heart, that she was indanger of falling off the chair. At this exercisealso he told them, that he could not win off till hegot this done, and this was all the drink-money,he had left in Ireland, and to the family (pointingto the landlord ) for all the kindness he had metwith from them. After baptism they got break¬fast ; there was plenty of bread upon the table,seeking a blessing, he put his hand beneath thebread, and holding it up with much aflection andtears, said, “"Lord there is a well covered table,and plenty of bread : but what comes of the pooryoung, kindly, honest hearted lad Renwick, thatshames us all, in starving and holding up hi;fainting mother’s head, when of ail the childrenshe has brought fbrth, there is aone will avowed-21take lier by the hand : ami the poor, cold, hun¬gry kids on the hills ? For honour of thine owncause, let them not starve : thou caused a raven-kous bird, greedy of flesh itself, to feed Elijah:and thou fed thy people in the wilderness withangel’s food : and blessed a few loaves and smallfishes, and made them sufficient for many; andhad experience of want, weariness cold and hun¬ger, and enemies daily hunting for thy life, while•n the world } look to them, and provide for them.”I'f'he Waiters being advertised of the bark beingn that place, they and other people came uponihem, which obliged them that were to come off,;o secure the Waiters and people altogether, for■ar of the garrison of Carrickfergus apprehend-jhig them, being near to it, which obliged themfo come off immediately, twenty-six of our Scotstofferers came aboard, he stood upon the deck andrrayed, there being not the least wind, where hebaade a rehearsal of times and places, when andwhere the Lord had heard and answered them in|he days of their distress and how they were in a'great strait—Waving his hand to the west, fromwhence he desired the wind, he said, ‘ Lord'give a>of-full of wind : fill the sails Lord and give us aesh gale, and let us have a swift passage over|o the bloody land, come of us what will.’—JohnMuirhead, Robert Wark, and others who wereSiipresent, tokl me, that when he began to pra}', t!sails were all hanging straight down, but ere hended, they were all like blown bladders. Theput out the Waiters and other people and gotvery swift and safe passage The twenty-siScots sufferers that were with him, having proviced themselves with arms, and being designed treturn to Scotland, there being thsn such a r oisof killing ; and the report was no greater than thdeed, it being then in the heat of killing time, iithe end of Febuary 1685. when at exercise in thbark, he said, ‘ Lord thou knowest these lads anhot spirited, lay an arrest upon them, that thenmay not appear; their time is net yet; thouglMonmouth and Argyle be coining, they will worl;no deliverance.’ At that time there was no re¬port of their coming, for they came not for terweeks thereafter—In the morning after the)landed, he lectured before they parted, sitting upion a brae-side, where he had fearful threatening^against Scotland saying, the time was comingthat they might travel many miles in GallowaJand Nithsdale, Ayr and Clydesdale, and not seda reeking house, nor hear a cock crow.28. When the day of his death drew near, ancnot being able to travel, he came to his brother'house, in the parish of Sorn, where he was bonHe caused dig a cave w&h a saughen bush coverS3ing tUe mottth ©f it, Bear, to his brother’s house;•hhI the enemies came and searched the housenarrowly many times. In the time that he was' in this cave, he said to some friends, 1. ThatGod shall make Scotland a desolation. 2. Thereshall be a remnant in the land, whom God shouldj spare and hide. 3. They should lie in holes andj caves of the earth, and be supplied with meatand drink: And when they come out of their1 holes, they shall not have freedom to walk, for* stumbling on the dead corpses. 4. A stone cutf»l of a mountain, should come down, and God shall!;! be avenged on the great ones of the earth, and' | the inhabitants of the land, for their w ickedness,: and then the church should come forth with a;! bonny bairn-time of young ones at her back,i' 1 He wished that the Lord’s people might lie hid'd : in their caves, as if they were not in the world,for nothing would do it, until God appeared with; his judgments, and they that wan through theo4 bitter and sharp, short storm, by the sword of; the Frenches, and a set of unhappy men, taking0* part with them, then there would be a spring-tidsday of the plenty, purity and power of the gos-pel: Giving them that for a sign, If he w'ere but.<ii! once buried, they might be in doubts ; but if hewere oftener buried than once, they might be per-s' suaded that all he had said would come to pass :24And earnestly desired them to take his corpseout to Airdsmoss, and* bury them beside Kichy( meaning Mr. Cameron ) that he might get restin his grave, for he had gotten little through hislife j but he said he knew they would not do it.29. Within forty-eight hours he died, Janu¬ary 28th. 1-686, being past sixty years; and wasbuired in the Laird of Affiect’s Isle. The enem¬ies got notice of his death and buriah and senta troop of dragoons, and lifted his corpse andcarried him to Cunmock-gallows foot, and buriedhim there (after being forty days in the grave)beside others. His friends thereafter laid a-grave-stone above him, with this inscription :HERE LIESMr. ALEXANDER PEDElSyA Fuithfrd Minister, of the Gospel,at Glenluco, •Who departed this life January 28, It86^ 'jAnd was raised after six weeksOut of his Grave,And buried here out of cor tempt.FINIS.