THBS’ KL iHGE WONfD.F.RFULPREDICTIONSOFMr Chriffopher Love,MINISTER, OF THE OOSPftL AT4 LAURENCEJURY. LON'DJN :Who was beheaied on Fower hilh on thetead of Atugohj 1-51 in tlu time of Oliver'Cromwell s Govermeat of Lngland. Givingkn account af 8a >y ion's fall, or the detractionot Popt ry; and, in that evtat, the gloriousjdaf, that ihiil fo’low over the whole Earth,land •particularly in Great dti aiaA faithful bftraft of the prophetic dif-of the laie Rev Mr Allan Logan,?r of the Gofpcl at Clackmanan, inire of Stirling, North Britain*5. Pointed by C Ranoai l* i8c^TO WtfICH is added,PREDICTIONSMr CHRt'TGPilER LOVE.Few nights after he was fentenced to bebeheaded cn owr Bill, which was cnthe 2 sd day of AuguH i o 31, ten days before hisappointed time, by the feoience he received atthe bar* being one night vififed by two of hisir.iiin- te rccpuainiances or bofom fiiends, as he1 iipfejf lalleu them they began to complain ofthe cnselties of the times and the malice andtifagt of time ferving brethren j to which MrH.ove r.nfwered, ** and think you this is an eviltime? No no this is the very time whengrace and tu;e godlinefs can be diftinguiOieditem hypecrify : many have followed Chrifthitherto for the loaves, and are now turned1 id; for the roughnefs cf the way, and the foreb iai of: rioulstion which other* met with whogone ‘ 'dore them.i htie are many in London at this verycay, who iain.v to go 10 heavean in their gild-ea c cher an. have iknied Chrift s caule be-^re men f ^ait whom i now witnefsJ andChrid in hi* never-failing word has promifed t<xdeny all fuch before his Father and the holyAngels, Ihis is the time to diicern between^him that ferveth God, and him that ftryeth,him not They formerly were my familiaracquaintance in fellowfhip and fweet con-vfrfe, 1 fent this day to luve a fev/ \j(ords wiih;them here in prifon,, but they would not come,for ‘heir countenance f: fallen, their confcienceswounded r—They cannot look me i s the face*,becaufel knew ot iheir refolution, and wasa v unefs to their porjura ion—13ut, .,h i howwill they look" he ofeffed Jefus ii the face in themorning of the refui rv £tion ? what anfwer orexcufe will they have for whstt they have done !O toolilh people • who think to elcape the crofsiand come to the crown ! i tell you nay youmull all mffer perfeeutitm vyho follow theLamb j we mud ne ha td of ail nations forChriit’s fake ; we mult come thto* oreat tribu¬lation, thro' the fiuy furnace of *fihttion, e-fore we can enter the land f joy aad te ici;y.Know you not that the louls that w'ere u infor the leftimony of Jelus are placed under thealter ? Happy, happy ate hofe men at thisday, ana tver ihuii be happ'; who /ufter forCbrill’s f ke in a ri^ht an i charitable way,thro* love to his caule- and hontfty of heart jnot th o' pride and hypocrify, without theroot pf ihe matter, to have it laid they diedmartyrs: thfcfe. ate they vho wni mifs tiieir-4mark, aad thofe vho denied the call andlooked back fl ail never have the honour tofind it ’ am now pointed out by many to bein a deflitnte and fotiom con ition hut lwould not exchange my Hate, no net Tor allthe glory that’s on earth 1 find my Redeemer’slove ftrenerer in rrry bonds then ever 1 <h inthe days of my iberb? j therefore 1 hold livingtreie as death itiel# 1 am as fu!! of love andjoy in the Holy bpirit as ever bottle was Ailedwith r ew v ine '» am rea iy to cry cut thefphitt of the Lord God is upon me wid nottake upon me to prbphefy • nevertheiefs thefpirit of the Lord cauleth me to utter — ’hisynurpe ’ authority now ift the hards of rt ;n»-well, fhall fijortlyhe ai an en«. Ingtand fhallbe bleffed with meek ^ing> and smi?dgovern,jnents, powerful preachers and cuH hearers,g«od iermons.to them vill le as mufm toa flt-epv man. they fhal hear but not. uadcr-ftand, noriav the word to heart to pmctifeIt in their lives to walk, by it O LngUnc !thou flialt wax bid in wickednefsy thy fi^sabout ti like ihcfc of edem, thy voiuptuouf-nefs fliall cry aloud-fer ve? rtancc^ the Lordfl ail thteattn and chaflife thee, ^et in mtreyand love will he ruck upon thole that fearhim and call up^n his name He wi 1 fpareH&d fave them alive in the day of hi* anger,when the wicked fhai) be lifted from amongit|■du, as the chaff is fiftec. itoia aniongftwheat; for oat of thee, O England, fhall abright ftar arife, whofe light and voice (hallraake the 'heathen to quake, and Vnock underv/kh fubmiffion to the gofpel of Jefus, he ihallbe at a found of thunder in the ears of thewicked, an i as a lanthorn to the Jews, to leadthem to the knowledge of Jefus, the only 'ionof God. an i true Mdfiah, whom th*y fo longmiftru' ed, for the fhort work fpoken of byt e ipoii e. which the Lord is to make uponthe earth in the latter ages of the world, can¬not be far off. Qbferve, my dear friends,while you jive, my calculation of the dates inthe book of the Revelation, and in Daniel,which the Spirit of the Lord led me into, forthe Lord will reveal it to fome of his own,wii> n tnat time comes for the nearer the timeis, the teals lhali be taken away, and more andmore Hull be revealed to God's, people, for theLord doth nothing without he reveal it byhis spirit, to his fervants the prophets. Hedeftroyed not ihe old world, without (he know¬ledge of Noah. He did not overthrow So¬dom and Gijmorrah without^ the knowledgeof abtahatn l do not mean now that anynew prophet Stall arife, but tne Lord by hisSpirit will jcaufe kno wledge to abound amonghis people whereby the old prophecies iliwUbe ciearly and perfectly undentoou. ind 1die in that thought, ano really believe that mr<g%icuUtioa on the Revelation by St John, aU£j6the prophecy ttlv'ch St Jerome copied oF, andtracfhted cut < f the Hebrew language, as itis Wrire 01 Seth's pillar in Dsmafcm. whichptllir iviia to nave ftood Fr ee beforeflood? am was bunt Seth, Adam's f«>n andwtimii.Dy Eiicch the prophet, as like wife titetidy precep’^ whereby the patriarch walked,btxdro he law was given to IVioies, w hich weiea i eu. taven on the laid pillar, wheiecf manyJi Vi S h ive c .pies in their own language writtenou parchment, anti engraven on Draft and c p-per, ut the alteration of the date makes themto lugger at it not knowing that the dates wereto ho mitered by the birth of Chrifi Fir-ft,u. prophecy is in titled, A fliort work of theLord s in the latter age of the world. Greateannqitakes arid comotions by ffa and land(hall come in the year of God 1779. Greatwars in Germany and America in 1780. ThetieiirucUon ot Popery, or Habylon s fall in theyet.. .790. Gou will be known to many inthe year 1795 Ihiswill produce a gr^rt man.lie ftars will wander, and the moon turn asblood in 18 0. Alrica, Aha and .Ament a wi iltrtmbk in 1803 A great earthquake over tillthe world i'i 1805 God v.iii Dc univerfallyki. wn by all peop e Tl*.n a general refor*roa.i n ^nd peace for ever, when the peopleii all i.e^rn war no more. Happy is the manliveth to fee this d§y.7AN ABSTRACT• >*' 'OF THEPROPHECIESOFMr VLLiN LOGMa AU, ^ LOG ^.Mbifter at Clak.manar,, L the liilrft of tirliag, wasau eminent am* faithful 'ervvnt of GoJ ; manywere tiie inftaitces of his foreknowledge, asmay be feen in his pr photic difcourfes, anextract of which is taken out of his ferinonon the pouring cut of the feven vbls, theopening of the fea.Sj and founding of thetrumpets.Having difcourfed much of the swful eventsto happen on tht earth. He in a rapturebt oke forth 1 his whit l am now fpeaktng toyou abort, was revealed to me by the Lordin a vilion. whether in the body or out of thebody. God knowtth I cannot teli. From theyear t the year 1793, one judgmentfhall follow clofe on the back of ar- ther, andthen (hall the nxth vial of the wrath of Godbe poured out oa the feat of the bead, and on8the fupp'Mters thereof and’ upon all the work,ers of iniquitv; then,{h?J!. God head and leada viftorlous Proteftant Prince againft Romeand all her adherent and-than ^a'l fhit la-mematkm be taken up for her t!ut is writtenin the Sook of Revel uignsThat {Treat c'tyf Baovlon the Great is fal.ten. arid is become a habitation of devils ; andthen Qial! the Jews fubmit to toe Iceptre ofJefos.. their King, Redeemer and Lord, theKeathens ami liirks ftiall aifo embrace thegolpat cf Chriltj ther^ (h^d the ’ioij^lay.down with the Lamb } tlig people then Ihailbeat their fwords into plough-fbares a"d theirfpe?is into pruning.hbpkf, nei-her fhail thenation* learn war any more.F, I N. I, S