1 Wellington’s Victories in Spaia.IThc FROLICSOME WIDOW,I Or, Nine Times a-NTight.!The Oxford Lord's DaughterThe Red Heather and Thistle foGreen,EdinbtKgfi; rioted bv J. Morren, Cywgattf,'2rWellington's ViSiories in Spain.'COME ail yon valiant heroes and liften untomejjWho h^ve got ao inclination to face your enemy,Never be faint hearted bat boldly croft the main.Come and join with Lord Wellington, who drubb’cFrenchvin Spain.With Wellington we’ll go, we’il.go, with. V*ington we’ll go,And we’ll crofs the main ocean, and face ouring foe.It was on the twelfth'of April; and glorious was theHis Lordfhip join’d the battle and fhewed them Brilplay,1 he French they fought moft funoufly, till thouf;there wtre ftiin,i'he German legions followed them, and drove thenAhe plain.With Wellington, &c,’Twas on the twenty .fi.'ft ..the French marched awaAcrofs the river Tormas. remakrable was the day.His Lordlhip marched after them with his armyfame night,Long time he had been watching them, refolving fcfight. With Wellington, &Early on thd twenty-fecond the battle it began.With courage bold both armies fought till fetting ofiwn up in line of battle, great guns did lou J roai,lli like haiinooes flew about, men lay bleeding in theirgore. With Wellington, &c.ie 2jd, next morning, juft at the break of day,|i(h Sight troops engaged again, it was a bloody frayip French they fought moft valiantly, refufihg for to. -yield, ' '(tngh they had near eight thoufand men lying deadj upon the field* With Wellington, fltc,ftn'Che Britifh cavalry came up, they ftiew’d themgallant £lay,ugh the French were more in number, they madethem run away,German legions followed them, fighting all the way,py -cut them down on every fide and thousands they‘ did flay. With Wellington, &c.laid the French lots in number, with prisoners that! • were ta’en,(mnted to ao,ooo who were in battle flain,island of colours then we took, which grievM thei French full fore.| eagles fine, in Loudon (bine, with other warlikeftorc. With Wellinton, &c.u that wifli to have a peace, from heavy taxes free| fur fuccefs to Wellington and his army,jihe always gain the vidtory fo that the wars may] cejfe,trade in Old England would flourilh and increafe.WrnU Wellington, &c. 'The Frolicsome Widow,AS s-buckfome young {park from London camedown.To take up his trade in a fmall country town.When they ask’d him his names then he toldthem downright,N e belong’d to the fami fy call’dNine times a-night.Yemaidsvwives,&widows,I’d have you beware,ForNine times a-night’s come to town, I declare,He fay*, that he is a young froiicfome blade,And he wiftiee to drive on a roving trade.A buxom young widow that lived hard by,Refalved flie was with this Nine times to try :She fays to her maid, now 1 wifli to be wed,Then in a (hort time all my forrows will be fled, vri hen Ihe call’d to her houfe maids, both Be tyand Nan,5!o keep a look-out for this wonderful man;And when that they law him, they told herdownrigkt.And brought her good tidings of Nine times a-Night.Then (he drew in a chair St bade him lit down,And (he fet before him a bottle of rum;I’ve gold and I’ve (liver, Pve houfes and land,And if that yeti’ll marry me, I’m at your Cora, fraand,sxtday they weae married by ringing of belli,li: time* they went at it. & did it ri..ht well;Ino«\ far* the bride, I am lattsfied quite,li t there was feme thing you menran’d," call'dNine times a-Ni i.t.|'!i.-no, fays the bridegroom, you’ve ta?en the|! joke wrong,*r it’s only the family to whichr I belong ;jr Nine time* a-Night is too much for a man,j»t if I cannot do it, I’ve a lifter that can.The Oxford Lord’s Daughter.Sr OV£RS, to love I would have you forbear,|>._J And unto this comical fong lend an ear ;I* Oxford their liv’d two lords of great fame,b nd one had a daughter, Iweet Annie Wy nam*.Lai dc ladle, lalde de.The other great lord had a ftewart as we hear,ind he fell in love with this lady fair. 'jut for to court her he ne’er durft pretend,ijipr fear of the angering of her noble friends.Lai de di, See.Till at laft, in difpair, a letter be wrote,jnd he inflantly fent it to this lady bright.Dear honoured lady your pardon I crave,Aod pity your lover who is your bound Have.Lai de di ial, Ire.6She wrote hira an aofwer, with a fcorofit! reply,“ O impudent fellow, do you think thar I“ Who am a lord’s daughter, my father’s ody heir,4‘ Would wed a lord’s ftewart ? f would have you“ forbea r* Lai de di ial, &c.When he read the letter, it fo troubled his breaft»That neither night nor day he could take no reft,And fo jiiofivc he grew, that in a little time.His polt to another he wag forced to refigu.Lai de di. &c.But it happened on a day that he was at a feaft, 'And a comfcal doftor was one of the guefts,Who plainly perceiv’d the ftewart was in love,And he call’d him aSde, and they walk’d in a grove.Lai de di, &c.O Sir, I perceive that your ddteroper is this,That you are in love, or in want of fome blifs;That you are in love with fome lady fair,And I pray you difcover it now if you are.Lai de di, &c.So hearing him fay fo he ftood in furprife,Saying how do you know it, O ia’t in my eyes ?Oh, it is my diftemper, and if you can me-cure.Full fifty broad guineas to yau I’ll procure.Lai de di. &c.So he fmiled unto him, and thus he did fay,I know very well fhe wants a waiting maid.And in hiring of her my wife fhe will employ,And the ftory I’ll make known this very fame day.Lai de di, &c.She having drefa’d him in her own body clothe?,Then ftraigkt away to the lady fhr goes,7si Saying honoured lady, I know; you want a mafd,i1 And here’s one I’ve hir’d for to fervs you flic faid.Lai d< di, Sic.! O fhe h«i9 hired him, and this flie did fay.Tfou muft wait in my chamber both night and day,For to lye with me, and that is not all,You miitt always be ready whenever I do call.Lai de di, &c.i The doftor he gave him a dole for to take,i And in the middle of the night (lie wanted a drink,. O flic touched him and tumbled him, but no anfwerwas made,11 Which made the lady to be fore afraid.Lai de di, &c.l! She ran down the ftaits all in a great fright,Crying, that her waiting maid had lied in the night,I They no up Hairs both maidens and m-. n,I They turn’d down the (ficetsand behold he was a manLai da di, See|j Her father was angry ta fee him fo bold,P Em sit length he did laugh till his lides he di 1 hold,I And he gave him his daughter tucaafc fhs vu tr».1 part’d,I For it was plainly Lea !he bad lien !th a man.La! de di, &c.Red Heather and Thistle so Green.Old England may boaft of Saiat George and thedragon,And holy Saint Patrick green Eria may brag on,With their rof-8 fo fair, & their (hauitock fo green j8B«t dearer to me are the hills of the north,The land of blue mountains, the birth-place of mi'’Thefe mountains where freedom firft fix’d her abt**Tbefc deep winding glens where flaves never '^od,Where blooms the red heather and thiflle fo greetThough rich be 'he vale ot the fhamrock and rof{And barren and rugged hills ccv*r’d with fuovr,Where grows the red heather and thiftle fo greeaIn friendfhip Sncere and loyalty true,Undaun'cd in fighting, no foe? c?n fubdue ;For valour renown’d is our old Scotifh fwains—For beauty and health are our nymphs on theplaiiOf the lands of red heather ami thHUe fo green. ;Far fam’d was our fires at the battles of yore.And cairn uson cairn lhall yet rife on our fhortf,O’er the foes of the thiftle, the thiftle fo fvveet.For tliofe lands are ftil! free that our forefathers wVAnd the fire of the fathen.ftill lives in the on,So let foe come on foe, as wave follow wave, jWe’ll give them a welcome, we’ll give them a graiBeneath the red heather and thitUcfo green.Though dear to my foul the heft bleffings of heatThe freedom we boa ft of is the land we live in,Where blooms Atf red heather and thiftlc fo greetFor that country and freedom our anceftors bkd/:/.ud we'll 1 wear by the blood that thefe worthies kfhed,Thot the foot of a foe (hail ne’er tread on the grsTBut the thiftle (hall bloom cn the bed of the bra^The thiflle of Scotland, the thiftle fo gran. aFINIS.