Ill STORYAND SCOTLANDFliOU THE REIGN OF JAMES THE FIRST TOVICTORIA THE FIRST.PART II,GEORGE THE FOURTH,GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSOF SCOTIA*flHISTORY0» THBilKINGS & QDEENS OF ENGLAND.JAMES I.Bornlfi60.DiedMar. 27.1625.Began toReignMarch 24,1603.Reigned22 Years.James First of England, and Sixth of Scotland, sonof Mary, Queen of Scots, and Henry Stuart, Earlof Darnley, was the first English king of the Stuartrace. Soon after his accession a plot was formedby the Catholics for blowing up the parliament-house with gunpowder, at the opening of parlia¬ment, when the King, Lords, and Commons, to¬gether with the Queen, and Prince of Wales wereassembled. This plot was discovered, and some ofthe conspirators died in endeavouring to defendthemselves; others were executed, and some par-4doned by the king. The fifth of November, theday on which the plot was discovered, is still ob¬served as a holiday at the public offices. Thenation, which had formed a high opinion of theking’s sagacity, in the discovery of the gunpowder-plot, soon changed its opinion in consequence of thefolly which he displayed in giving himself up to theguidance of unworthy favorites, one of the first ofwhom was Robert Carr, Earl of Somerset, and after¬wards George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham. Thegreatest stain upon the character of James, is histreatment of the celebrated Sir Walter Raleigh,who, after being many years confined upon a chargeof conspiracy, was released to take the command ofa voyage of discovery, which proving unsuccesful,he was on his return taken up and executed uponhis old sentence.The king’s prodigality having exhausted his ex¬chequer, ho was obliged to apply to parliament forsupplies, when the Commons took occasion to makeencroachments on the royal prerogative, which ori¬ginated the struggle, that ended in the death of hissuccessor. The king having engaged in war toassist his son-in-law, the Elector-palatine, who hadtaken up arms against the Emperor, expeditionswere fitted out for Holland, and France, whichproved unsuccessful. What effect James’s misfor¬tunes had upon his constitution is uncertain, butsoon after the failure of these expeditions he wasseized with a tertian ague, of which he died on the27th of March, 1625, in the fifty-ninth year of hisage, and twenty-second of his reign over England ;having reigned thirty-six years over Scotland pre¬vious to his accession to the English throne.Eminent men in this reign :—ViJliers, Duke of Buckingham;Herbert, Earl of Pembroke ; and Lord Chancellor Bacon.5CHARLES I.Began tsReignMarch 27,1625.Reigned23i Years,Succeeded his father, James I. Upon his acces¬sion he found himself engaged in a war for the de¬fence of his brother-in-law, the Elector-palatine;but the subsidies granted by parliament not beingsufficient to enable him to carry it on, and afterattempting to raise money by unconstitutionalmethods, he called a new parliament. The newparliament not being more liberal in its grants thanits predecessor, he had again recourse to unconsti¬tutional methods of raising supplies. Buckingham,as great a favorite of Charles as he had been of hisfather, was sent with a fleet to relieve Rochelle,which completely failed *, while at home, the dis¬putes between the king and parliament becamemore violent. After the death of Buckingham,who fell by the hand of an assassin, the king madepeace with France and Spain, and assisted by LordStrafford and Archbishop Laud, made it apparent6that he intended to govern without a parliament.The national discontent increased, and as if thediscontent in England was not enough, Charles andhis councillors attempted to introduce Episcopacyinto Scotland ; when the Scots, rather than submit,had recourse to arms. For the purpose of obtain¬ing supplies, after other methods had failed, hoheld first one parliament, then another: the lastwas the celebrated Long Parliament. This par¬liament commenced measures which ended in thoexecution of Lord Strafford, abolished certain ob¬noxious courts, deprived the crown of many of itsprerogatives, and broke out into an open rupturewith the king, success sometimes attending oneside, sometimes another, until the battle of MarstonMoor, when the king’s misfortunes commenced.Laud, who had been sent to tho tower at the com¬mencement of the war, was executed, and Episco¬pacy abolished.Charles, after the battle of Naseby, gave himselfup to the Scottish army, which some time beforehad joined the Parliamentarians, and was by themdelivered into the hands of his enemies. Afterbeing confined in different places, and attemptingto make his escape from Hampton Court, he wasat last brought to London, where he was tried andcondemned. He was executed on tho thirtieth ofJanuary, 1649, in the forty-ninth year of his age,and twenty-fourth of his reign. The person ofCharles was of the middle size, robust, and wellmade ; with a pleasing, though melancholy counte¬nance, which might be occasioned by the misfor¬tunes he had suffered.Eminent men in this reign:—Earl of Strafford; ArchbishopLaud; John Hampden; Earl of Falkland; Lord EdwardHerbert of Cherhury.TTHE COMMONWEALTH.—OLIVERCROMWELL.BecameLordProtectorDec. 16,1653.Ruled4| Tears,!! After the death of Charles I., his son Charles beingr invited by the Scots to become their Ling, Oliver" Cromwell went with an army into Scotland, whereE he entirely defeated the Scots army, Charles withi another army having entered England, was againovercome by Cromwell at Worcester ; Charles withdifficulty escaping into France. Cromwell, havingabolished the Long Parliament, was at length ele¬vated to the supreme power by the title of LordProtector. He was distinguished for the abilitywith which he conducted affairs both at home andabroad. He retained the supreme power until hisdeath, and was succeeded by his son Richard, whoin a short time resigned ; the nation by this timebeing prepared for the return of Charles II.Eminent men during the Commonwealth :—Admiral Blake;Generals Fairfax and Monk ; Sir II. Vane; John Milton.CHARLES II.Sunn after his coming to the throne, an aot of in¬demnity was passed, from which those who had an I;immediate hand in the death of the late king were |jexcepted. He also, contrary to the advice of his |wisest councillors, married Catharine, Infanta ofPortugal, his motive being to secure the dowry ofthis princess : the expences attending his profligatepleasures rendering this necessary. It was proba¬bly from the same motive that he declared waragainst the Dutch, which after being earned onwith great fury for several years, was put a stop toby the treaty of Breda. Having got rid of Chan¬cellor Clarendon, he took for his advisers a set ofmen known by the designation of the Cabal. Themeasures of the king and his advisers producedgreat discontent in the country ; which the plaguein London in 1665, and the great fire in the suorBoro1 (330.PiedJVb. G,JQS5.Bogan toIteign WMay 29, |j.1000. 1,fteignfid j24} Years, I0ceeding year tended to increase: the people ascrib-ting the latter to the papists. The nation was longagitated with the proceeding about the popish plot,|| as it was called, which was followed by others1 through the whole course of this reign.! Party spirit ran high toward the conclusion ofthis reign. Fitzharris, a noted manufacturer oflibels, was imprisoned by the king, whilst his causewas espoused by the Commons; and a dispute took[ place between the Lords and Commons regarding; the manner in which he should be tried. The king,I taking advantage of their disputes, dissolved theparliament, without ever intending to call another;i1 and by this unexpected measure put an end to par-!! liamentary commotions. He oppressed the Pres¬byterians and others opposed to the government,and gave the places, of such of them as had places,to the friends of high prerogative. He also de¬prived the city of London of its charter, which wasonly restored upon the most abject submission.Fitzharris, formerly mentioned, and others wereput to death. Whilst the power of the crown hadbecome irresistible, and many saw no other meansof safety but submission, there was a party still re¬solved to make a vigorous attempt for the restora¬tion of freedom. Amongst the most eminent ofthese were Lord Russell and Algernon Sydney,who were taken up as being concerned in a pre¬tended plot, and after a mock trial, executed. Butjust when Charles had established as despotic agovernment as any in Europe, he was seized witha sudden illness, and died in the fifty-fifth year ofhis age, and twenty-fifth of his reign._ Eminent men in this reign :—Hyde, Earl of Clarendon ; Vil-liers, Duke of Buckingham ; Algernon Sydney; Lord Bussell;Wilmot, Earl of Rochester; John Dryden.Bom1033.Abdicatedthe throne.Tan, 22,1080.10JAMES II.Began toReignFeb. 0,1083.Reigned4 Tears.Succeeded bis brother, Charles II., and immedi¬ately began to take steps for reconciling his king¬dom to the Church of Rome. The Duke of Mon¬mouth, a natural son of the late king, who hadretired to Holland on account of his connexion withone of the plots of last reign, landed in England,and claimed the throne ; but being unsuccessful, Iwas taken and executed, and his followers treatedwith unheard of cruelties. After this James pro¬ceeded openly with his designs for establishingpopery ; the people became discontented, the armydeserted him, seven of the bishops were tried foropposing some of his measures, and were acquitted,and the Prince of Orange having landed, he wasforced to abdicate the throne, and leave the king¬dom. He retired to France, where he died in 1700.Eminent men in tin) reign:—Duke of Monmouth; JudgeJeffries ; Saville, Marquis of Halifax; John Locke.11IBorn1G50.DiedMarch 8,1702.WILLIAM III.Began toIteignJan. 23,1689.Reigned13 Years.After the abdication of James, it was agreed thatWilliam, Prince of Orange, nephew and son-in-lawof James, who landed in England on the fifthof November, 1688, and Mary, his wife, shouldreign jointly; the administration of governmentbeing placed in the hands of the prince. At thebeginning of his reign, William, who was averse toreligious persecution, made an attempt to alter thelaws regarding uniformity of worship. Althoughhe did not succeed to the extent of his wishes, yeta toleration was granted to dissenters on certainconditions. Whilst he was thus engaged, James,the abdicated monarch, whose authority was stillextensively acknowledged in Ireland, landed in thatkingdom on the twenty-second of May, 1690, wherehe found Tyrconnell, the lord lieutenant, and anarmy amounting to nearly forty thousand men, de-12voted to his interest. As soon as the season ad¬mitted, he besieged Londonderry; the besiegedenduring great hardships, from which they were atlast relieved, by a store-ship breaking the boomlaid across the river to hinder a supply. The armyof James after this abandoned the siege, havinglost about nine thousand men. William, havinggone to head the protestant army, the rival kingsmet at the river Boyne : the two armies being in¬flamed with religious animosity and hatred. Wil¬liam immediately upon his arrival narrowly escapedbeing killed by a shot from a cannon privatelyplanted against him by the enemy, which killedseveral of his attendants, and slightly woundedhimself. Early next morning, William’s armyforced a passage over the river, and the battle com¬menced with great vigour, After an obstinate re¬sistance, the Irish fled, followed by their Frenchand Swiss auxiliaries. This victory was almostdecisive, although the death of the Duke of Schom-berg was severely felt by the protestant party.After one or two more stands, William succeededin reducing Ireland, and James returned to France,where he died in 1700. William, after endeavour¬ing to preserve as much as he could of the royalprerogative, gave up the contest, and was for themost part of his reign engaged in carrying on warwith France, which was terminated by the treatyof Ryswick in 1697. William died on the eighthof March, 1702, in consequence of a fall from hishorse, in the fifty-second year of his age, and thir¬teenth of his reign: Mary, his consort, died someyears before him.Eminent men in this reign :—Duke of Schoilibarg ; Montagire,Earl of Halifiix.; Lord Somers; Archbishop Tiilotson; BishopBurnet; Sir Isaac Newton.13ANNE,Born1664.DiedAug. 1,1714.Second daughter of James II., and wife of George,Prince of Denmark, now ascended the throne, to thesatisfaction of all parties. Anne declared war withFrance, in which she was followed by the Dutch.The Duke of Marlborough was made general of theEnglish forces, and generalissimo of the alliedarmy, and became a very formidable enemy ofFrance. A series of splendid victories were achievedby the allies, of which the chief was that of Blen-hiem. For this victory, one of the greatest everwon by England, the Duke of Marlborough wasrewarded by the gift of a large estate and splendidmansion. Another conquest which has ultimatelyturned out of much more importance to England,was the taking of Gibraltar by Sir Cloudsley Sho¬vel and Sir George Rook. Philip IV., grandsonof Louis XIV, being placed upon the throne ofSpain, notwithstanding a treaty formerly enteredinto by the powers of Europe, by which Charles,14son of the Emperor of Germany, had been appointedto succeed, an English army under the commandof the Earl of Peterborough was sent to supportCharles, and was at first successful; but Peterbo¬rough being recalled, the English were completelydefeated, and Philip firmly established on thethrone. An event of great importance took placein 1707 ; this was the union between Englandand Scotland, which, although long governed bythe same sovereign, until now had remained sepa¬rate kingdoms.The Whigs, to which party the Duke of Marl¬borough belonged, and who had been in office fromthe commencement of this reign, had for some timebeen on the decline, and soon after the Union weresucceeded by their rivals the Tories: their down¬fall was principally occasioned by the queen’s dis¬like to them. Anno, who was led by her favour¬ites, had long been influenced by the Duchess ofMarlborough, but she was succeeded by anotherfavourite, who used her influence on behalf of theTories. This triumph was accelerated by certainproceedings against Sacheverell, a clergyman, anddefender of high prerogative opinions, and who hadbecome very popular. The Duke of Marlboroughwas recalled in the midst of brilliant success, anda peace concluded with France. But whilst theWhigs were attacking the Tories, and the Torieswere divided amongst themselves, the queen’s con¬stitution gave way, and she died on the first ofAugust, 1714; after having reigned more thantwelve years over a people that had now risen to ahigh degree of refinement and opulence.Eminent men in this reign ; Churchill, Duke of Marlborough ;Rt. John, Lord Bolingbroke; Sir William Tcmplo; Harley,Earl of Oxford ; Jonathan Swift.15GEORGE LBegan toReignAugust 1,1714.Reigned121 Years.Anne was succeeded by George, Elector of Hano¬ver, son of the Princess Sophia, grand-daughter ofJames I. Immediately after his succession theWhigs were restored to power, and proceedings setafoot against some of the leading members of thelate administration : Lord Oxford the chief of themwas set at liberty, whilst some of the others wentinto exile. The Pretender, son of James II.,landed in Scotland in 1715, after some attemptswere made in his favour; but seeing no prospectof success, soon after returned to France. Theking in 1727, being desirous of visiting his electo¬ral dominions, set out for the continent, and uponhis landing in Holland, stopt at a little villagecalled Yoet, and in two days more arrived at Del-den, where he was taken ill, and died in the sixty-eighth year of his age, and thirteenth of his reign.Eminent men in tins rcinn :—Sir William Windham ; SirRobert Walpole : Bishop Atterburr.16GEORGE II.Succeeded his father, George I. After the com¬mencement of this reign, great complaints weremade by the nation of cruelties committed by theSpaniards, but the war with which the country wasthreatened was for some time averted, by a treatyconcluded at Vienna. An interval of peace suc¬ceeded for some years, but was at length broken bywar with Spain ; when Porto-Bello was taken byAdmiral Vernon. Commodore Anson was also sentout with a squadron to annoy the Spaniards in theSouth Seas, and after the loss of great part of hissquadron, succeeded in capturing a rich Spanishtreasure ship ; and returned at the end of threeyears, having circumnavigated the globe. An ex¬pedition was also sent out against Carthagena,which terminated disastrously. The Emperor dyingin 1740, the French caused the Elector of Bavariato be crowned emperor, thus setting aside the claims17of the Queen of Hungnry, daughter of the hite em¬peror. George espoused her cause, and an Engli'diand Hanoverian army was sent into the Nether¬lands, of which he took the command, and gainedthe battle of Dettingen ; but his son, tho Duke ofCumberland, was unsuccessful at Fontenoy.In 1745, Charles, son of the old Pretender, landedin Scotland, for the purpose of making an attemptto gain the crown of his ancestors. After proclaim¬ing his father king at Perth and Edinburgh, anddefeating Sir J. Cope at Prestonpans, he marchedinto England, to within a hundred miles of themetropolis. He then returned into Scotland, andovercame General Hawley at Falkirk, but was atlast defeated by the Duke of Cumberland at Cul-loden, and after suffering gro t hardships, madehis escape into France ; and some of his adherentsbeing taken, suffered death as traitors. The warwas put an end to by the treaty of Aix-larehapelle.This treaty was little more than a temporary truce,as war was soon revived with the French, for thepossession of Canada. This war at its commence¬ment was unsuccessful, but the celebrated WilliamPitt, afterwards Earl of Chatham, being placed atthe head of affairs, under his auspices Quebec wastaken by the gallant Wolfe, who died in the hourof victory: this led to the possession of Canada, Ac,The country after this was plunged into a conti¬nental war; and while victory was attending itsarms by sea and land, the king was suddenly takenill, and died on the twenty-fifth of October, 1760,in the seventy-seventh year of his age, and thirty-third of his reign.Eminent men in this reign:—Admiral Hawke; General Wolfe [William Pitt, Earl of Chatham ; Lord Hardwick ; Henry Pel¬ham ; Pope; Thomson ; Young.18GEORGE III.,Bora1733.DiedJan. 29,1820.Began toReignOot. 25,1760.Reigned59 Tcara.Son of Frederick, Prince of Wales, succeeded hisgrandfather, George II. The Earl of Bute in ashort time was placed at the head of the adminis¬tration ; and although the war continued to be suc¬cessfully carried on, it was terminated by an unpo¬pular peace in 1763, and was succeeded by a timeof popular discontent. The disputes with ourAmerican colonies, which had commenced beforethis, still continued, and the first blood was shed atLexington on the nineteenth of April, 1775. Thecontest now seemed inevitable ; preparations weremade by the Americans on every hand, whilst re-in-forcements were sent to the army from Britain.An engagement took place at Bunker’s hill, andalthough the Americans were worsted, both sidessulfered severely. George Washington was electedgeneral of the American army, and Congress, whichhad assembled some time before, published a de-19duration ol independence on tlie fourth of July,1770, The Americans were unsuccessful in thesouth, hut in the north. General Burgoyne surren¬dered to General Gates at Saratoga, who after thiswas enabled to send reinforcements to Washingtonin the south, which made him more than a matchfor his opponents. France after this acknowledgedthe independence of the United States, and wasfollowed by Spain and Holland.In 1780 some serious riots took place in London,in consequence of the repeal of certain penal lawsagainst the Roman Catholics, when after destroy¬ing Romish chapels, burning the prisons, Ac., themob were dispersed after a great many of theirnumbers were killed and wounded. In AmericaLord Cornwallis was attacked by the armies ofFrance and America at York-town, and forced tosurrender. The French navy was almost entirelydestroyed by Rodney’s victory over Count de Grasse,in the West Indies. At home. Lord North, notbeing supported by parliament, resigned ; and afterother ministerial changes, the independence of theUnited States was acknowledged, and peace con¬cluded in 1783. After this, the celebrated WilliamPitt, second son of William Pitt, Earl of Chatham,came into office. In 1788 the king was seizedwith a serious illness, which unfitted him for theduties of government; and after some warm de-bates about a regency, he unexpectedly recovered.After this, one of the most important events re¬corded in history took place; that is the FrenchRevolution, to attempt to give any account of whichwould far exceed our limits ; suffice it to say, thatit produced a war in which Great Britain took aprominent part. The French, who had put theirking and his queen to death, and established a20republic, were generally successful by land ; the |aBritish, on the other hand, being victorious at sea, jVuntil peace was concluded at Amiens in 1802, L"After a rebellion had been suppressed, a legislative i:(union took place between Great Britain and Ire- |{land, which commenced January first, 1800. Be- iifore the peace, Napoleon Bonaparte had risen |!to eminence in France, and was now at thehead of the government, by the title of firstconsul.The peace was of very short continuance, as warbroke out again in 1803. Bonaparte commencedthe war with great vigour and soon succeeded inshutting out Britain from the continent, after havingassumed the title of emperor. The naval triumphsof Britain were now consummated by the victoryof Trafalgar, which was dearly won, as Lord Nel¬son lost his life. After being victorious over theAustrians at Austerlitz, and the Prussians at Jena,Napoleon had arrived at the highest pinnacle ofpower ; but he was soon destined to meet withgreat reverses. In 1810 the king was attacked bythat malady from which he formerly suffered; andthe Prince of Wales was placed at the head ofgovernment, with the title of Prince Regent. Itwas under the regency that Napoleon, after suffer¬ing great reverses in Spain and Russia, was com- |pelled to abdicate his throne, and after an attemptto regain it, was finally overcome by the alliedarmy, commanded by the Duke of Wellington, atWaterloo. George III. died at Windsor on thetwenty-ninth of January, 1820, in the eighty-secondyear of his age: his son, the Duke of Kent, diedon the twenty-third of the same month.Eminent men in this reign :—Duke of Bedford : Duke of Nor¬folk ; William Pitt; Charles Fox ; Edmund Burke.21GEORGE IV.Bom1762.DiedJune 23,I860.Began toReignJan. 29,1820.Reigned10 Years.Having been several years in posssession of sove¬reign power, his accession to the throne producedno political change of importance. He married,in 1795, his cousin, Caroline of Brunswick ; hut aseparation soon took place, and a secret investiga¬tion into her conduct, some years afterwards, ter¬minated in acquittal. After this, she quittedEngland, and spent her time mostly in travelling.On the king’s accession to the throne, some evidencecollected by a commission which had sat at Milan,was made a pretext for omitting her name in theLiturgy, and thereby refusing her the honour duoto her rank. Having determined to return toEngland, she arrived in London on the very daythat a message was sent to both houses of parlia¬ment, demanding that her conduct should ba madethe subject of investigation. A bill of pains andpenalties was introduced into the Lords, and the22trial lasted forty .five days ; but on tbe third read¬ing of the bill, ministers having a very small ma¬jority, abandoned it. Whilst these proceedingscontinued, the public mind was greatly agitated,and continued so during the remainder of the lifeof that unfortunate lady. The coronation of theking took place in August, 1821, when the queen’sclaim to participate in that ceremony being re¬jected, she presented herself at the doors of West¬minster Abbey, and was refused admittance ; whenthe ceremony went on without interruption. Herdeath soon followed this event.Immediately after his coronation, his majestyvisited Dublin, where he met with a most loyalwelcome. Shortly after his return, he visited hisHanoverian dominions, and after a short stay re¬turned to England. After the termination of thesession of parliament in 1822, he visited Edinburgh,where he was received by all classes of his Scottishsubjects, with the greatest enthusiasm. Nothingof sufficient importance occurred abroad to be no¬ticed in this summary. The Duke of York, heirpresumptive to the throne, died January fifth, 1827,sincerely lamented by the army, of which he hadlong been commander-in-chief, and had deservedlyacquired the appellation of “ the soldiers’ friend.”After this, the domestic event of greatest impor¬tance that took place, was the Roman Catholicemancipation act, which removed certain disabili¬ties under which they laboured ; the bill havingreceived the royal assent on the thirteenth of April,1829. George IV. died at Windsor Castle on thetwenty-fifth of June, 1830, having reigned tenyears ; but previous to his father’s death, he heldsupreme power for about ten years, under the titleof Prince Regent.23WILLIAM IV.Born1766.DiedJan. 20,1837.| Succeeded his brother George, to the general satis-I faction of all classes of his subjects. During hisI whole reign of nearly seven years, the nation en-1 joyed tranquillity both at home and abroad. Theii most inportant event of this reign, indeed, thor< most important political occurrence since the revo-4 lution, was the passing of the reform bill in 1832.f William for some time continued his brother’s« ministers in office ; but the demand for a reform inI the representation of the people, which had longif been made, could no longer be resisted, and thocj premier, the Duke of Wellington, having declared; himself opposed to any measure of reform, thaJj Whigs, with Earl Grey, at their head, were calledr to office, and immediately introduced the reformli bill, which, after a hard contest, they succeeded in•J carrying. William died on the twentieth of Janu-4 ary, 1837 ; having reigned nearly seven yearsVICTORIA,BornMay 24,1819.Began toReignJan. 20,1839.Only daughter of Edward, Duke of Kent, succeededher uncle, William IV. On her accession, allparties and classes of her subjects united in testify¬ing their affection for their youthful sovereign.Her majesty was married February 10th, 1840, toPrince Albert, second son of Ernest, Duke of SaxeCoburg and Gotha; and has issue, Victoria Ade¬laide Maria Louisa, Princess Royal, born Novem¬ber 21st, 1840 ; Albert Edward, Prince of Wales,born November 9th, 1841; Princess Alice MaudMary, bom April 25th, 1843; Prince AlfredErnest Albert, born August 6th, 1844. . Long livethe Queen. May her reign be prosperous.The number of eminent men who have flourished in the lastthree reigns, has been so great, and their names so well known,that we have declined making a choice, and therefore haveomitted them altogether.