Good NEWST OSC O T L A N D.''•soilFalkirk printed, vj/iere Gentlemen, and all Dealersin Becks, may be fervid with a great Variety ofBibles, .Teftamems, Confefiions of Faith, Booksin Divinity, Hifjtory, Poetry, Sermons, Catechijms,and Ballads, cither in Wholcfale or Ret ail, as cheapas in Edinburgh or Glafgow, at the Printing-Office, m the High-ftreet, near the South-Gateoj the Church :    Where Gentlemen may havetheir Boohs printed and bound in the neatejl andchsapcjl IP iy ; a/fo A elver ie ents printed on theIhortejt Notice.A NACROSTICUpon the Name of that godly, faithful and zealousMinifter and Martyr ot JESUS CHRIST,Mr. Richard Cameron :Done by a true Lover of his Memory, and Ownerof the honourable Caufe which he fealed withhis Blood.MOST nobte Cameron of renown,A fame of thee frail ne’er go down j 'S ince Truth with zeal thou didfr purfueyT o Zion's King loyal and true :E v’n when the dragon fpu’d his flood,R efift thou didft unto the blood ;R an fwiftly in thy Chriftian raceI n faith and patience to that place,C hrift did prepare for fuch as thee,II e knew would not Ins ftandard flee,A pattern of valour and zeal,II ather to fufler than to fail 51) idft fhew thyfelf with might and main,Counting drofs what others thought gain :A faithful witriefs ’gainft all thofe „ iMen, of all forts did truth oppofe :E v’n thou with Mofcs did qfteemR eproaches for the God of heaven ;O n him alone thou didft rely,N ot fparing for his caufe to die !William Wasou.f O R F O O T in Evandale ? jGood News to Scotland.This Sermon was among his lajl Labours, being preach*ed fourteen Days before he fv.jfercd Martyrdom atAirs-mofs.— The Scope of the Sermon is, a feriptu-ral PrediSlion of the terrible Judgments that arecoming upon Zion’j Enemies, and the great dndglorious Deliverance that is coming to the Churchand People of Cod, in Britain and Ireland.A SERMON-Preached in the Parifh of Carluke, in Clydefdale^upon the 8th Day of July, 1680,By that faithful Minifter and Martyr ofJESUS CHRIST,Mr. Richard Cameron.Ifaiah xlix. 24. Shall the Prey he taken from theMighty, or the lawful Captive delivered fTo which is added,An ACROSTIC upon his Name, by a trueLover ol his Memory, and Owner of theCaufe which he fealed with his Blood.FALKIRK:Printed and fold by DANIEL REID, at his Printing-Office, in High-ftreet, near the South-Gate of theChurch, M,DCC,LXXVI. ^ Prir* f)V4 Good Ntvjs to Scotland.Ifaiali xlix. ■24. Shall the prey be taken from 'the. . mighty, or the laioful captive delivered ?WE claim a fpecial intereft in this place of Scrip¬ture, and many other places alfo, look to thefirlt verfe of this chapter, Liftcii, 0 ijles, and hearkenye people from far ; it appears as if it had been fpokento frit din : — the Lord is crying to us this day toliften unto him.—You will fay, What is the Lordfaying ? What would the Lord fay to us?—We can¬not take time to Ipeak to all that is in the chapter,and make application of it; but look to the 13th verfe.Sing, 0 heaven, and be joyful, 0 earth : for the Lordhath comforted his people, and yeill have mercy uponhis affdclcd.—He'is crying to us to fing, SingOheavens,that is, fing O church; fing O earth, that is, fing Oflate; fing both church and (late of Scotland ; O howfhould we fing? hath not the Lord forfaken and for¬gotten us ?— Nay, nay, though it appears fo, yet itis not fo really; the purpofe of God is great withchild this day, to bring forth a great deliverance tothe church and ftate of Scotland? If we faw thedays that our Lord is to bellow upon us : if we had afight of the minifters that fliall be in Scotland, thatthe Lord is to give this land, it would make us fing.Te think now that the minifters are gone, and indeedit is fo in a great part, and the magiftrates are rejedl-ed by us ; we declare before fun and ftars that it isfo, but our Lord is to give rulers ; he will make outthat promife, ver. 23. Gnd kings jhall be thy nurjingfathers, and their queens thy nurjing mothers. So,I fay, if we faw the good days that are coming uponthe back of thefe troubles, we would not get menand women keeped from finging and dancing for joy,■we would all go home with gladnefs and rejoicing;yea, diftracted as ;t were for joy : but you may fay,O how fhall this bt! for there are two things to beobj'YIed againit this :f irjl, The paucity of them who have keeped flraighr,h'u: ore long that Hiall be made out, ver. 20. 'ThechildrenCicGit News'to Scotland. 5fhUdren -which thou Jl:alt have, after thou hajl lojrthe other, Jhall Jay, The place 'is too JiJ ait for me^giv\place to me that I may dwellwith verfe 21. T-haiJhalt thou fay in thine heart, Who hath begotten mfthefe?” Behold l was left alone, thefe where had theybeen ? Indeed it is true, the Lord is coming to maK6this land defolaje, and ere long there will not'l^emany men, women, or children in it; and the rem¬nant that he will leave in it will be a poor afflidledpeople, and that fmall company and remnaht willleaven the whole company and number, fo that, thqnumber of the Prefhyterians- of thofe who adhere tothofe who are defpifed and perfecuted in Scotland,fhall not get room to dwell in Scotland: and the tea-fon will be, becaufe all the nations about will comt^as it were, to take a copy of the pattern of the dob-trine, wor{hip,difciphne and government of the churchof Scotland. Now you may fay, how can that be?You have the word of Clod for it; I’ll tell you, thtiword hath not been made out very much to any church,the rather it feems to have refpeft to Britain, andScotland efpecially, Lijlen, 0 ifles, unto me, and hcctrkefiye people from far.2. Now there is a fecond objection agalnfl: it, whichis this, the ftrength and power of enemies. Conieaway with that, make language of your cafe, or ofthe church’s cafe ; what would ye fay of it ? You willfay, it is fo fad that you cannot tell what to fay of it;you will fay that you are weighted with the church’scafe, and when you go to God you are tongue-takedand cannot get it expreffed. There is a question pro¬pounded by the Lord himfelf, and it is jaft our lan¬guage, at leaft, the language of fuch as-would prefer, Jerufalem to the world, and it is this, Shall the treybe taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive be de¬livered! — Is not this our cafe ? — In few words, weare a prey, and thofe that have us for a prey are mighty,and we are captives; and if you pleafe to take lawfulcaptives for the captivity of the juft; or thus, we areA 2 in6 Good News to Scotland,in captivity according to their law, that is, accordingto iniquity eftablilhed by the law. I {hall not belong in {peaking what I have to fay from thefe words ;bur as to the queltion, there are thefe two or threethings in it, and we {hall only name them, and notcome over them again.t. There is this holden out by it, that fometimesthe people of God are made a prey, I wot well thatword is made out in our day, Ifaiah xlix. 15. Truthfaileth, and he that departeth from evil maketh him-felf a prey. I’ll tell you what many folks fay in thisland, they forbear practices, that fome men at thistime are forward in, to evite trouble : nay, but for¬bearing duty is your fin ; and if you fin not withothers, you may make yourfelf a prey': but the pro¬vidence of this time is a commentary fufficient of thefewords ; they are not worthy of their name now, thatis not a prey in Scotland; that man that can keep thecrown of the caufey is not worthy of a good-day ora good-e’en, were he the bell minifter in Scotland.I bid not a badder mark of a man or woman thanthis, that they are not a prey.—God be thanked weare at this day, that any man may fhoot us, we thinkit our glory.—Thefe that are free to buy and fell, andand go to kirk and market at this time have theirfreedom at a dear rate. We are a prey and captives,they have both men and women in prifon, and allaccording to their law : we muft not take ill with tlfis,you fee there hath no ftrange thing happened us butwhat hath befallen men, fuch things have happenedthe church before, and the Lord hath warned us ofit; he hath warned us, not only in general. If anyman come to me, he mujl deny himjelf and take up hiscrofs, &c.; and through many tribulations we muftenter into the kingdom of heaven ; but particularsare condefcended upon, and cordials fuitable to thefepromifes.—There is a cordial in this chapter, bewareof grudging; we arc a prey, but ere long they thatprey upon us will be preyed upon.2. TheGood News to Scotland. 72. The fecond thing we may obferve here, is this.That it is incident and cafeable to the church and.people of God, not only to be a prey, but to be aprey unto the hands of thefe that are very mighty,ftrong and terrible iike, for fo the words will bear;we may fay our perfecutors are ftronger than we ; ifwe were as ftrong as they, we would laugh at them,and would but play with them ; but the truth is, theyhave forces and armies at their .command, both withinand without the land. But,3. The word imports this litaewife, that not only isthe church fometimes a prey to the mighty, but alfothat the people of God will be juft defpairing that everthey can be delivered again lhall the prey be takenfrom the mighty, {hall the prey be taken from theking, from the council, from the forces and foldiers,how can it be ? it cannot be; for when we look toour right-hand there is none to care for us, all refugehath left us.—There is a queftion here, which I defireall the minifters in Scotland to anfwer, Will yonderprey be taken from the mighty ? nay, nay, fay they,they need not attempt it; and weourfelves who knowit, are at defpairing 5 we think it needlefs to pray orfaft, preach or fight; for when we mint to rife, thenthe Lord comes and gives us fuch a blow, that we aremade to fit down again, and ftick fafter to the groundthan ever before.—Nay, if you could get all the an¬gels in heaven.this day this queftion would puzzlethem.—It is true indeed, believers tlrat win to an in¬timacy with God, may get a fight of this, God willdeliver, but here comes the matter, whom fiallJacob arife, for he is very fmall ?—-Here is one toanfwer pofitively and affirmatively^ and tells how itfhall be accompliffied; who anfwers it?—the Lord,he even fays, I fee well enough, though I would makeminifters and other believers, yea, angels tell, thatthe prey {hall be taken from the mighty, it will notdo it; I will take this queftion on myfeif: for im¬mediately before, you fee he promifeth to make kingsA 4 their8 Good Nfius to Scotland,their nurfmg-fathers, <bc. which fiiews us this kfloii,That after God hath promifed a thing he doth notinftantly and immediately perform it; but betweenGod’s giving a promile to a people; and the accom-plifhment thereof, there may follow fuch things asmay make'us think it will never be but that ratherthe contrary will be. And while the people are underthefe things that prognofticate the contrary of whathe hath promifed in his word, and on which he hathcaufed us to hope, then he comes in himielf; Batthus /dilh the Lordy Even the captives of the mighty(hall he taken away, verfe 25. which is an anfwtr tothis. Shall the prey be taken from the mighty? — themighty fays, You (hall never be taken out of ourhands; yea, moft of all the people fay fo : hut thusfaith the Lord, Even the captives of the mighty Jhallbe taken away, and the prey of the terrible [hall bedelivered?—Believe ye this? 1 ant fare if ye believedthis, ye would be content to be fined and call out ofvour houfes, wander, and take your lives in your handsfor a time : there is as much in this word as maymake us go away finging, that may comfort us againttall the troubles this time can afford us.Ye will talk of news, here is good news, the preyJhall be taken from the mighty, and the lawful captivedelivered-r-\5\iU fay ye, there is little likelihood forit- wherefore, where is the man to do it ? I know nonoblemen, gentlemen nor commons; —■ we had thefeto go to within thefe few years ; but now the commonsare involved in the fame guilt with the gentlemen,and are lying by as well as they; there is no minifternor piofeffor to do it, and indeed the Lord will notlipp n to one of us ; —thanks be to God for that;for if it were iippened to us, we would be alwaysundet troubles, and the work would be razed to thefoundation, fo that there would be no memory of itto polteruy.—Then will you fay to the Lord, Howfhall this prey be taken from the mighty, isc. ?—AndI will tfcll you what will be the anfwer, which is this,< . EV..Gad News to Scotland. 9Tor I •will contend •with them that contend •with thee,end •will fave thy children, and will feed'them that•Jiprefs thee with their own fiejh. Sic Never,think that ye will get falvat'on till God come andcontend with his enemies. Some would invert this,they would firft have falvation, and then contendingwith the enemies; but that is not the way that Godminds to take, pnd therefore it will not profper, takeit who will; both minifters and profe.fibrs God hathto contend with, w'hen he comes back tp Scotland,to contend with them that tv .tended with his people.Many think that if we had.inch an army as they hadthe Jail year, we would contend with them : — theLord God of Hoffs will contend with them ere long,and he will feed them tl)at opprefs you with theirpwn flefh.O but folk may think tb^t this is cruelty; indeedh a minifter or profeflbr had faid it, it might bethought cruelty, but it is the Lord’s words—Whenour Lord comes, hehvjll be fevere, he will be fo (tqfpeak after the manner of men) he will be cruei, heis juft indeed; the inftrumentg that he will make ufpof, whatever fort they be, they muff handle enemieswith other fort of weapons than they have been hand¬led ; yea, they will take collops out of their flefh andmake theyn eat it, and give them their blood to drink;this will the Lord do, and make them know that heis the Lord, the Saviour and Redeemer of his church.He is not known to he the Lord now; he is bu£mocked, flighted, and lightly efteemed; but when hecomes to execute juftice and judgment, he will makeall know that he is the Lord, the Redeemer of hispeople, and that 'ris loving kihdnefs hath been re¬maining with them all along ; and be who they will,whom the Lord will raife up to execute judgment inthis land, they will reward them as they rewardedus, they will not fpare; qs he lives, he will bring cruelforeigners ere he want. But ye may fay, we need nottrouble ourfelves about it, the I-iord will do it, wpio Good News to Scotland,may ly by, we need not trouble our heads about it.Many would be at that; indeed the Lord will do it,but we muft make ufe of the means incumbent uponus : — I fhall fpeak of feveral means to be made ufeof in order to haften the Lord’s delivery of the cap*tives contending with them who have contended withus.1. The firft two or tliree of thefe means you mayfee from Revel, xii. 11. in the toth verfe it is faid theaccufer of the brethren is cajl down, &c.— What ismeant by that ? that is, the devil hath gotten aToreflroke ; how got he that ? verfe 11. /Irid they overcameby the blood of the Lamb.—What is that ? by believingjefus Chrift, by employing him, by giving him muchcredit, who is the Captain of falvaiion, and was madeperfect through fuffering. O fad that there is folittle faith in our day! faith will fay to this moun¬tain, Remove yonder, and it will be : we may faythere is nothing imptdlible to him that believes; theyovercame by the blood of the Lamb; indeed he thatbelieves will overcome if it -were on a fcaffold, yea,even when lying on the ground, and his blood gulh-ing out; for his blood, when it is gone, by virtue ofthe blood of Jefus Chrift, is crying for vengeance.O the noble vi&ories that hath been win to in fieldsand on fcaffblds by our Lord in this land and elfe*.where ; the dragon and his angels have fought 'withMichael and his angels; but the dragon hath beecafl down.2. A fecond mean is this f their tejlimony) theyovercame by the Word of their teftiviony. Fy onyou in this generation that is fo much againft tefli-monies, when the Lord is drawing*!! out of them, andif any appear to give a tefiimony, the reft is offendedthereby, they tverenme by the blood of their teftimony.Had we openly pleaded with our mother, and teftifiedggainft the fins of our rulers who ruled in this land,we had not lien fo long under the feet of the ufurperof him who is the ftated enemy of Jefns Chrifttnay, iCoed News to Scotland. 11nay, nor under the feet of thefe under him. In¬deed it is true, this is a teftimony at this time tojeome to preach and hear preaching after this manner!but O for fuch a teitimony (that if it was in oilr powerwe fhould have fet about it): for my part I wouldthink it our duty, if probably we could think to get^way to go and tell them to their faces, that they aretraitors to God and abominable perfons : we haveoften faid in the fields, that our king hath been atraitor to God, and when we go to a town to declareit by paper, the molt part are offended in our Lordat this time.—I’ll tell you I defire not to fay it to takethe praife to myfelf, but I fay, if the teftimony be ad¬hered to it will give them a fore blow, even that paperthat hath fallen accidentally into their hands, andhath been left at erodes.——If the teftimony givenat Ruthergleny May 29, 1679, had been adhered to,we would have feen other things than we have feen,the Lord would have countenanced his people, andowned their teftimony :—-—1 fay, fet about giving ofteftimonies, this {hall haften God’s coming out of hisplace to fave his children.3. They overcame by not loving their lives unit thedeath, that is, by fufFering, and indeed fuffering givesa noble difli to enemies-, we never loft any thing bycleanly fuffering, but gained much by thofe who lofttheir lives on fields and fcaffblds : but there are manythat will fay, indeed we fhould fuffer, but fay they,we fhould not fight. But let me fee the man thatfays he is not for fighting; (it is true, if the Lordcall not to it, it fhould be fo) but for fuffering; thatman is certainly infatuated and miffed by the tempterwho will fuff’er like thofe who cry down defenfivearms when they come to fuff’er, and are not willingto fuffer any lofs as to their own matters, but theywill fuffer the gofpel to go away ; we are aftiamed offuch folk, ever pretending for fuffering, and yet Hillyielding to terjoptations ; never one acb the enemiespave made thoffe years bygone but ever they yield to-them;f2 Good News to Scotland,them; fay they, I could not help paying of the cefs,and taking of the bond, and paying locality; I wotwell, fay they, I did it againll my will, and fo it wasmy afflitfion and fuffering: the‘Lord will not thankyou for it; it is not fuffering, it is yielding.4. There is a fourth mean, that we ffiould preferibeto you, in order to the doing what ye can, to baftenthe Lord’s contending with them that contend wnh-%'ou ; and you may read it, Luke xviii. 7. Pray alwaysand faint not, will not Gad avenge bis own elcEl thatcry to him day and night, though he bear long withthem. You muff not quit praying, refufe to give himreft, or keep filent till he eftabiilh truth> and makeJeriifalem a praife in the whole earth. Many of you,it may be, have prayed long and come little fpeed. iWe have been in pain, but have brought forth the wind; \yet you muft continue; will ye continue this year,:and ye may get deliverance the next.—We cannotfet a time, but we know not how foon our deliverancemay appear to all, to the terror of enemies, confufionof them that reproach'us, and to the rejoicing of hispeople; for he is upon the matter coming; then cry,Come forward, he will be avenged of his enemies;if ye quit duty .ere he come, ye will get no thanks •when he comes; according to that, Ezek. xviii. 24.If the righteous man commit fin, his righted fifs /hall 1be forgotten. Many, who by their proftflion ap¬peared to be advancing, have quit their duty ere Chrifthath come, and they will be dealt with as them whominted at duty, Pfalm exxv. 5. for fuch as turn ■afide unto their crooked ways the Lord will lead them ;forth with the workers of iniquity Up and be doing 'with your prayers, and the Lord will be with you5. Another mean to haften the Lord’s return, youhave Pfalm Ixxvi. 5. look firft to the 10th verfe. Surely 1the wrath of man fall praife tb~r, the remainder of]wrath wilt thou refrain.” Would ye have the re¬mainder of man’s wrath reftrained? then verfe 1 r. Vowand pay unto the Lord your God, &c. Verfe 13. Hefhallcut :Good News to .Scotland. »•»cut off the Jpirit of princes, he is terrible to the kingsof the earth. Would ye have the Lord to cut off thefpirits of princes, to cut off the abominable? wouldyou have him terrible to Charles, James, and Monmouthtoor then you fliould bring yourfelves under engage¬ments to the Moft High : let us never imagine thatever a party in Scotland will thrive, that ever ourLord will give fucceis to a party even ufing lawfulmeans till they vow to the Lord, and endeavour toperform: but you may fay, did not that party whoappeared in the fields 1666, renew the covenant atLanark, and yet they were broken; yea, and neverlooked fo hopeful like after that as before ? I know noreafon of their being put to the worfe, but this, andI dare fay it in my Matter’s name, and in his (Lengthmake it out, That the reafon of the covenant thenfvorn to had no fucccfs, was, becauie they ftill tookin the king’s interett, notwithftanding he had declaredhimfelf a Hated enemy to Jefus Chrift and his intereft.You may read and always obferve, that the feveralreformations that were in Judah, there was always anew covenant entered into with an acknowledgementof the circumftances, (ins, and duties of that time :for my part I defire not to reflect upon our fathersfor bringing home Charles Stuart; but indeed fomeof them, among others, the reverend and worthy Mr.Livingjlone, did go mourning to the grave for it; yethis actions fince, and the contrivance of thefe wThohad his favour, or any power under him, declares thatit is impoflible to manifeft the royal prerogatives ofJefus Chrift, and manifeftly avow fo much as his civilrights, and fince it is declared that we mutt quit himas king, or quit Chnft as king; indeed I am for this,for no king but Jefus Chrift, fince they will have nonebut Ccefar; and after CHRIST is upon his throne,and his crown upon his head, let fuch magiftrates beappointed as will employ their power for the advance-ing the kingdom of Jefus Chrift, and deftroying thekingdom of darknefs in this kingdom, and in every14 News to Scotland,place where Chrift fhall reign, and let them he owned, jWe are conftrained to fay this, and can fay in ourLord and Mailer’s name, let vows and covenants gothrough the land, though we Ihould not have an armyin Scotland this twelve month : yet, as the Lord lives,though he had not a party to back him, yet he him-felf would bring down all about us, Vow and pay tintsthe LORD, and he will cut off the fpirit of princes ^ forhe is terrible to the kings of the earth he will makethem all to (hake and quake. It is obferved by oldbilhop Spotfwood in Edinburgh, at the time the laftbifliops were brought down ; when he heard tell thatfome noblemen and gentlemen were met together inEdinburgh, to renew the national covenant. O, fayshe, we have done with it fince his people have enteredinto covenant. O that there were perfonal enteringinto covenant, and that there were general and na¬tional vowing to God; that they would have none tobe the head of his church but Chrift; and that theywould have none to be rulers but fuch as will be a,terror to evil doers, haters of covetoufnefs, and loversof God; if it were fo, we durft pawn our fouls, thatour Lord would foon arife out of his place, and let usfee our defire on our enemies ; O that we were wife!O but, poor people! they are much difheartened anddifcouraged, they think that no means will do good:now, if we would acknowledge that we have walkedcontrary to him and he to us, Lev. xxvi. 40, 41, hewould foon appear: and if ye alk how I can fpeakfo confidently of the Lord’s appearing and contendingwith his enemies now, when there is fo little appear¬ance of it ?— I anfwer, There is more appearance ofit now than there was in the beginning of June laftyear, for as great an army as ye had (before the breakof BothwellJ : if ye would draw near to God he woulddraw near to you ; and if thofe things were fet aboutthat we have fpoken of, ye would fee the deliverancecompleted very fhortly : — and I’ll tell you the fymp-toms of it in two words, and that is, the people ofGodGood News to Scetland.God are very low, and the enemies of God are gayand high, it may be they will be higher yet; the armyis nothing that they have in comparifon of what theymay have ; he will have all his enemies gathered toge¬ther, and then he will bring a clalh among them: forour part we iliould not care that not only the army thatthey have were in a body, but that all our Lord’s ene-'mies in Europe were gathered together, that he mightcut them off. It will be found to be true, thatwhen there is none {hut up or left, the nearer willhis coming be, as you may fee it, Dent, xxxii. 36. Forthe Lordjhall judge his people, and repent himfelf forhis fervants,’ when he feeth that their power is gonefand there is none flout up or left.Read much the prophetical fermons of worthy andgodly Mr. William Guthery, for he fpeaks clearly ofwhat is now our lot, all things that we looked to islaid by, great men, multitudes of men, minilters andprofeffors ! indeed it is fad to think on the ways theyhave gone: ay, there is many minifters now, who aret faying, Yonder people will get leave to Hand and fallby themfelves, none will join with them ; fome arethinking, O but it would be a hopeful bufinefs, if thepeople and all the minifters and profeffors would joinin one, as matters ftand, I would think it good wif-dom to run away from the union, it would be a blackmark, he will not give his glory to another; he willhave few means, and thefe defpicable ones, that his, glory may the more appear: and if they be fuch asthe eyes of the people {hall be drawn after, I’ll war-rand they fhall be laid by alfo; not but that he willmake ufe of means and inftruments. O to wait onhimfelf for counfel, wifdom, courage and furniture ofevery fort, for going about the means, that he maybecalling us to : his and our enemies are but laughingat us, we’ll then put the LORD to it to make out hisword, and fay, LORD, thou haft faid, and be asgood as thy word : plead with him, you may pleadwith him more homelv than any in a country'fide.1  H,ft%6 Good News to Scotland.Haft thou not laid, For the opprejjion of the poor 1fightng of the needy thou ivilt ar'ife — O if we werebut groaning to the LORD, and telling him whathe hath promifed, we would get wonderful things jmade out by him ;—concerning my fans and my daugh- 'ters, and the works of mine hands command ye me :nay, there is as great moyan with che LORD now as jever there was : he never faid to any of the ho. ie of ?Jacob feck ye my face in vain. Let us make u.'e ofprayer, which will not hinder us to make ufe of otner ..means; and I’il allure you we’il make all cur ene¬mies tremble and fhake yet.—What need us fear, is ;not the LORD cn our fide? And if fo, who isagainft us ? Have we not the Word of GOD to be }our fupport in the day of our affliction ; unlefs thelaw of the LORD had been cur delight, we had fainted;we had declined either to what is finful in the land, ,or to lying by, which is finful alio.Now then, I fay this, you fee our cafe in a word,Shall the pres be taken from the mighty, or the lawful ,Captive delivered?—Thus faith the LORD, The prey ,Jhall be taken from the mighty, even the captive ofthe mighty foall be taken away, and the prey of theterrible Jhall be delivered: for I will contend withhim that contendeth with you, fcse. Go home withthe anfwer of this queftion from the LORD : he is 'to arife to contend with them that contend with hispeople.