THECOMICAL TRICKSOFLOTHIAN TOM;WITH ASELECTION OF ANECDOTES.(tLASGOAV :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.THECOMICAL TRICKSOFLOTHIAN TOM,JL vy—* ** Am A. W KThis Thomas Black, vulgarly calledLothian Tom, because he was of thatcountry, was born about four miles fromEdinburgh ; his father being a wealthyfarmer, gave him a good education, whichhe was very awkward in receiving, being avery wild mischievous boy.When he was about ten years of age, hewas almost killed by the stroke of a horse’sfoot, which his father had who had a trickof kicking at eyery person that camebehind him. But when Tom got whole ofthe dreadful wound, whereof many thoughthe would have died, to be even with thehorse, he gets a cleg, or piece of tree whichwas full of wooden pins, such a thing asthe shoemakers use to soften their leatheron,, and with a rope he tied it to the couple-bauk in the stable directly opposite to thehorse’s tail, then gets on the bank, andgives it a swing, so^that the pikes in the :end of it, came with full drive against thehorse’s backside, which made him fling,3and the more he flung and struck at it, itrebounded back, and struck him again, thebattle lasted with great fury for a long timewhich was good fun for Tom, until hisfather hearing some noise in the stable,came to know the, matter, and was sur¬prised to see the poor animal tanning hisown hide, with his legs all cut and bloody!he cut the rope and the battle was ended;but the poor horse woulc} never afterwardskick at aiiything that came behind him.It happened one day that Tom w7ent afishing, and brought,home a few small fish,which his grandmother s catsnupt up in thedark. So Tom to have justice of the cat forso doing, catches her, and put her into alittle tub or cog, then sets her adrift in asmall mill-dam, ordering her to go a fishingfor herself; then set two or three dogs uponher, and a most terrible sea fight ensued,as ever was seep on fresh water ; for if anyof the dogs, when attempting to beard her,set up their noses, baudrins came flying tothat place, to repulse them with her claws;then the vessel was like to be overset bythe weight of herself, so she had to flee tothe other, and finding the same, there fromthence to the middle, where,ahe sat mew-ing, always turning herself about, combinglltheir noses with her foot. The old woman: being informed of the dangerous situation4of her dearly beloved cat came runningwith a long poll to beat off the dogs andhaul her ashore. What now, says Tom,if you be going to take part with myenemies, you shall have part of their re¬ward ; then gives the old woman such apush that she tumbled into the dam overhead and ears, beside her beloved cat, andwould undoubtedly have perished in thewater had not one of the people who wasthere looking at the diversion, come to herrelief,After this Tom was sent to school to keephis hand out of an ill turn ; and havingan old cankerid, crab-witted fellow for hisdominie( they were always at variance;for if Tom had got his whips, which heoften deserved, he was sure to be revengedupon his master again for it. So Tom per¬ceived his master had a close-stool in alittle closet within the school, where hewent and eased himself when need was :Tom gets a penny-worth of gun-powder,and sprinkled it on the ground directlybefore the seat, and lays a little of it alongin a train to the fireside; then perceivingwhen his master went into it, and as hewas loosing down his breeches sets fire tothe train, which blew it all about his mas¬ter s backside, which scorched him terribly,besides the fright, for which Tom was5severely whipt. Yet, in a little after, hebegajn to study revenge on his master.So it happened one day as Tom was inthe master’s house, his wife was stooping! into a big meal-barrel, to bring cut somemeal; then he takes her by the feet, andcoups her up into the barrel with her headdown and her bare backside uppermost;then runs into the school, crying 0 master,master! the de’il’s looking out o’ your mealstand, wi’ a fat face and a black ill-farr’dmouth; yon’s j ust Auld Ni ck if he be living,So the master ran out with all speed hecould, for to see what it was ; and foundit to be his own wife, speechless, and almost, smothered to death ; but as she could nottell who did it, Tom got clear off: yet hewas not satisfied without some more re¬venge on the old fellow : and knowing hismaster had a fashion when he was going to• whip the boys, if they would not loose theirbreeches willingly, he drew his knife andcut them through the waistband behind :So Tom goes to a butcher, and gets a rawpudding, and fills it with blood and water,and puts it within the waistband of hisbreeches, then goes to the school next day,and as his master was sitting with his backto the fire, Tom lights a piece of paper andsets his wig in a low, which burned for sometime unperceived, until the flames came6fizzing about liis ears; he first put out thefiames by tramping on the wig, and beinginformed that Tom did it, flies to him in arage, ordering him to loose his breeches, butTom told him he was never so mad.—Thenhe drew his knife, whips poor Tom over hisknee, and with a great struggle cuts thewaistband of his breeches, but thro' puddingand all, so that the blood gushed out, andTom cried out Murder! Murder! Murder!and down he fell.The poor Dominie ran out of the schoolcrying and wringing his hands. Word flewabout that he Was sticked by the Dominie,which made the people come running fromseveral parts of the country round about tosee how it was; but upon searching him,they found the empty pudding, which dis¬covered all the fraud. Then two men had toget horses and ride after the poor Dominie,who had by this time got two or three milesaway ; and when he saw them riding afterhim crying to stop and come back again, heran the faster until he could run no more,but fell down on the road, and prayed themto let him go, for, if he was taken back, hewas sure to be hanged: and would not bepersuaded that Tom was alive, until theyforced him back, and he saw him. But hewould be Tom’s teacher no longer; so Tom’sfather had to seek another master for him.7PART II.There was a young woman, servant toTom’s father, whom Tom had offended bysome of his tricks, and she, to be up withTom again, one night spread a handful ofshort nettles in his bed, between the sheets,which stung his legs and thighs so much,that he was obliged to quit his bed for somepart of the night; for such he resolved to berevenged, whenever a proper opportunityoffered. It happened in a few days after,that she was invited to a wedding, where thedancing and diversions induced her to stayall night, and on coming home in the morn¬ing, she fell a washing some clothes. Butbeing fatigued with her night’s diversionand for want of rest, fell fast asleep with herhands extended in the tub, and standing onher feet, with her belly leaning on the tub ;Tom perceiving this, slips her petticoat andsmoke over her head, facing the highway ;several people passing by, wdiile she con¬tinued in this posture, some of them werediverted with the sight, and others wereashamed at it; but a poor cadger had themisfortune to be coming that way at thetime, and his horse, taking fright at thisunusual sight, threw off his creels and brokethe poor man’s eggs all to smash ; whichso enraged him that he lashed her buttocks8with his whip in such an unmerciful,manner, that with the smart and shametogether, she had not the least inclinationto sleep for the remaining part of the day.Tom being grown up to years and age ofman, thought himself wiser and slyer thanhis.father : and there were several thingsabout the house which he liked better thanto work; so he turned to be a dealer amongstbrutes, a cowper of hoi'Ses and cows, &c.,and even wet ware, amongst the brewersand brandy shops, until he cowped himselfto the toom halter, and then his parents!would supply him no more. He knew hisgrandmother had plenty of money, but shewould give him none ; but the old woman'had a good black cow of her own, whichTom went to the fields one evening andcaught, and took her to an old waste housewhich stood at a distance from any other,and there he kept her two or three days,giving her meat and drink at night whenit was dark, and made the old woman be¬lieve somebody had stolen the cow for theirwinter’s mart, which was grief enough tothe old woman, for the loss of her cow.However, she employs Tom to go to a fairthat was near by, and buy her another;she gives him three pounds which Tomaccepts of very thankfully, and promises tobuy her one as like the other as possibly9be could get; then he takes a piece of chalkand brays it as small as rrieai, and steeps itin a little water, and therewith rubs overthe cow’s face and back, which, made herbaith bracket and rigget. So Tom in themorning takes the cow to a public housewithin a little of the fair, and left her till thepair was over, and then drives her home he-ibre him ; and as soon as they came home,the cow began to rowte as it used to do,whichmade the old woman to rejoice, thinking itwas her own cow, but when she saw herwhite, sighed and said, Alas! thou’ll neveroe like the kindly brute my Black Lady,md yet ye rowte as like her as ony ever I didmear. But says Tom to himself, ’tis a mercyi fou know not what she says, or all would bei wrong yet. So in two or three days the oldwoman put forth her bra’ rigget cow in themorning with the rest of her neighbour'smttle, but it came on a sore day of heavy-"am, which washed away all the white fromiter lace and back; so the old woman’s BlackLady came home at night, and her rigget:ow went away with the shower, and waslever heard of. But Tom’s father havingliome suspicion, and looking narrowly into1 he cow’s face, found some of the chalk notwashed away, and then he gave poor Tom alearty beating, and sent him away to seekLs fortune with a skin full of sore bones.10PART III.Tom being now turned to liis own shifts,considered with himself how to raise a littlemore money; and so gets a string as nearas he could guess to be the length of hismother, and to Edinburgh he goes, to awright who was acquainted with his fatherand mother. The wright asked him how hedid; he answered him, very soberly, he hadlost a good dutiful mother last night, andthere's a measure for the coffin. Tom wentout and staid for some time, and then comesin again, and tells the wright he did notknow what to do, for his father had orderedhim to get money from such a man, whomhe named, and he that day was gone out oftown.—The wright asked him how much hewanted ? To which he answered a guineaand a half. Then Tom gave him strictorders to be out next day against eleveno’clock with the coffin, and he should get hismoney altogether. So Tom set off to an ale¬house with the money, and lived well whileit lasted. Next morning the wright and histwo lads went out with the coffin ; and asthey were going into the house they metTom’s mother, who asked the master howhe did, and where he was going with thatfine coffin ? Not knowing well what to say,being surprised to see her alive, at last he11told her that her son brought in the measurethe day before, and had got a guinea and ahalf from him, with which he said he wasto buy some necessaries for the funeral. 0the rogue! said she, has he played methat rt So the wright got his lent money,I and so much for his trouble, and had toI take back his coffin with him again.Tom being short of money, began to| think how he could raise a fresh supply; so[I he went to the port among the shearers,y and there he hired about thirty of them,I and agreed to give them a whole week'sH shearing at tenpence a-day, which was two-| pence higher than auy had got that year ;I this made the poor shearers think he was avery honest, generous, and genteel master| as ever they met with; for he took them| all into an •ale-house, and gave them a( hearty breakfast. Now, says Tom, whenI there is so many of you together, and per-[ haps from very different parts, and beingji unacquainted with one another, I do not| know but there may be some of you honestI men and some of you rogues, and as youii are all to lie in one barn together, any ofI you who has got money, you will be surestI to give it to me and I’ll mark it down in|! my book, with your names, and wha^ I re-j ceive from each of you, and you shall havei it all again on Saturday night when you12receive your wages. 0 ! very well good-man, there’s mine, take mine said every onefaster than another. Some gave him five,six, seven, and eight shillings, even all thatthey had earn’d thro’ the harvest, whichamounted to near seven pounds sterling.So Tom having got all their money, he goeson with them till about three miles out oftown, and coming to a field of standing corntho’ somewhat green, yet convenient for hispurpose, as it lay at some distance from anyhouse; so he made them begin work there,telling them he was going to order dinnerfor them, and send his own servants to jointhem. Then he sets off’ with all the speedhe could, but takes another road into thetown lest they should follow and catch him.Now when the people to whom the corn be¬longed saw such a band in their field, theycould not understand the meaning of it; sothe farmer whose corn it was,went ofl"cryingalways as he ran to them, to stop; but theywould not, until he began to strike at themand they at him, he being in a great passion,as the corn was not fully ripe ; at last, byforce of argument, and other people comingup to them the poor shearers were convincedthey had got the bite, which caused them togo away sore lamenting their misfortune.Two or three days thereafter, as Tomwas going down Canonga'te in Edinburgh,13he meets one of his shearers, who knewand kept fast by him. demanding back hismoney, and also satisfaction for the rest.Whisht, whisht, says Tom and you'll getyours and something else beside. So Tomtakes him into the jail, and calls for a bottleof ale and a dram, then takes the jailoraside, as if he had been going to borrowsome money from him; and says to thejailor, this man is a great thief, I and othertwo have been in search of him these threedays, and the other two men have thewarrant with them ; so if you keep thisrogue here till I run and bring them youshall have a guinea in reward. Yes, saysthe jailor, go and I'll secure the rogue foryou. So Tom got off, leaving the poorinnocent fellow and the jailor strugglingI together, and then sets out for Englanddirectlv.TART IY.Tom having now left his own nativecountry, went into the county of Northum¬berland where he hired himself to an oldmiser of a farmer, where he continued forI several years, performing his duty in hisI service very well, tbo’ sometimes playing|i tricks on those about him ; but his master| had a naughty custom, he would allow14them no candle at night, to see with whenat supper. So Tom one night sets himselfnext his master, and as they were all aboutto fall on, Tom puts his spoon into the heartof the dish, where the crowdy was hottest,and claps a spoonful into his master’smouth. A pox on you for a rogue, criedhis master, for my mouth is all burned. Apox on you for a master, says Tom, for youkeep a house as dark as Purgatory, for Iwas going to my mouth with the soup, andmissed the way, it being so dark ; don’tthink master, that I am such a big fool asto feed you while I have a mouth of myown. So from that night that Tom burnedhis master’s mouth with the hot crowdy,they always got a candle to show them lightat supper, for his master would feed nomore in the dark while Toni was present.There was a servant girl in the house,who always when she made the beds, ne¬glected to make Tom’s, and would have himdo it himself. Well then, says Tom, I haveharder work to do, and I shall do that too.So next day when Tom was at the plough,he saw his master coming from the house to¬wards him, he left the horses and the ploughstanding in the field, and goes away towardshis master. Who cried, what is wrong ? oris there anything broke with you ? No, no,says Tom, but I am going home to make153my bed, it has not been made these twoweeks, and now it is about the time themaid makes all the rest, so I’ll go and makemine too. No, no, says his master, go toyour plough, and I’ll cause it to be madeevery night. Then, says Tom, I’ll ploughtwo or three furrows more in the time, soTom gained his end.One day a butcher came and bought a finefat calf from Tom’s master, and Tom laidit on the horse’s neck, before the butcher.When he was gone : now, says Tom, whatwill you hold master but I’ll steal the calffrom the butcher before he goes two milesoff? Says his master, I’ll hold a guinea youdon’t. Done, says Tom. Into the househe goes, and takes a good shoe of his mas¬ter’s and runs another way across a field,till he got before the butcher, near the comerof a hedge, where there was an open andturning of the way; here Tom places him¬self behind the hedge, and throws the shoeinto the middle of the highway; so, whenthe butcher came riding up, with his calfbefore him, Hey, said he to himself, there’sa good shoe! If I knew how to get on mycalf again, I would light for it; but whatsignifies one shoe without its neighbour? Soon he rides and lets it lie. Tom then slipsout and takes up the shoe, and runs acrossthe fields until he got before the butcher, at16another open of a hedge, about half a miledistant, and throws out the shoe again onthe middle of the road; then up comes thebutcher, and seeing it, says to himself ; nowI shall have a pair of good shoes for the lift¬ing ; and down he comes, lays the calf onthe ground, and tying his horse to the hedge,runs back thinking to get the other shoe, inwhich time, Tom whips up the calf and shoe,and home he comes demanding his wager,which his master could not refuse, being sofairly won. The poor butcher not findingthe shoe, came back to his horse, and miss¬ing the calf, knew not what do do ; butthinking it had broke the rope from aboutits feet, and had run into the fields, thebutcher spent the day in search of it,amongst the hedges and ditches, and re¬turned to Tom’s master’s at night intendingto go in search again for it next day ; andgave them a tedious relation how he came tolose it by a cursed pair of shoes, which hebelieved the devil had dropped in his way,and taken the calf and shoes along with him;but he was thankful he had left his old horseto carry him home. Next morning Tomset to work, and makes a fine white face onthe calf with chalk and water: then bringsit out and sells it to the butcher; which wasgood diversion to his master and other ser¬vants, to see the butcher buy his own calf17again. No sooner was he gone with it, hutTom says, now master, what will you hold; hut I’ll steal it from him again ere he goestwo miles off? No nt>, says his master, I’llhold no more bets with you; hut I’ll giveI you a shilling if you do it. Done, says Tom,it shall cost you no'more; and away he runsthrough the fields-, until he came before thebutcher, hard by the place where he stolethe calf from him the day before; and therehe lies down behind the hedge, and as thebutcher came past, he put his hand on hismouth and cries haw, haw, like a calf. Thebutcher hearing this, swears to himself thatthere was the calf he had lost the daybefore: down he comes, and throws thecalf on the ground, gets thro’ the hedge in, all haste, thinking he had no more to dobut to take it up ; but as he came in atone part of the hedge, Tom jumped out atanother, and gets the calf on his back;then goes oyer the hedge on the other side,and thro’ the fields he came safely homewith the calf on his back, while the poorbutcher spent his time and labour in vain,running from hedge to hedge, and hole tohole, seeking the calf. So the butcher re¬turning to his horse again, and finding hisother calf gone, he concluded that it was' done by some invisible spirit about thatspot of ground ; and so went home lament-18ing the loss of his calf. When Tom got jhome he washed the white face off thestolen calf, and his master sent the butcherword to come and buy another calf, which;he accordingly did in a few days after, andTom sold him the same calf a third time,and then told him the whole, affair as itwas acted, giving him his money again.So the butcher got fun for his trouble.PART Y.There was an old, rich, blind woman,wholived hard by, that had a young girl, heronly daughter, who fell deep in love withTom, and he fell as deep in love with hermoney, but not with the maid. The oldwoman gave Tom many presents, and'mounted him like a gentleman; but he usedevery method to put off the marriage, pre¬tended he still wanted something, which theold woman gave the money to purchase forhim, until he had got about thirty poundsof her money, and then she would delay themarriage no longer. Tom then took theold woman and girl aside, and made thefollowing apology : Madam, said he, I amvery willing to wed with my dear Polly,for she appears as an angel in my eyes, butI am sorry, very sorry to acquaint you,that I am not a fit match for her. What,19child, says the old woman, there is not afitter match in the whole world for myPolly, I did not think your country couldafford such a clever youth as what I hearof you to be, you shall neither want goldnor silver, nor a good horse to ride upon,and when I die, you shall have my all.0 but, says Tom ; Madam, that’s notthe thing, the stop is this : When I was inScotland, I got a stroke from a horse’s foot,on the bottom of the belly, which has quitedisabled me below, that I cannot perform ahusband’s duty in bed. Then the old womanclapt her hands and fell a crying, 0! if ithad been any impediment but that,but that,but that wofu’ that! which gold and silvercannot purchase, and yet the poorest peoplethat is common beggars have plenty of it.The old wife and her daughter sat crying| and wringing their hands, and Tom stood|r and wept lest he should get no more money.>j 0, said Polly, mother, I’ll wed him never-I theless, I love him so dearly ! No you fool¬ish girl, said her mother, would you marry ai man and die a maid ? You don’t know theI end of your creation; it is the enjoyment of| a man in bed that makes women to marry,j which is a pleasure like Paradise, and if youIN wed this man you will live and die, and neverfeel it. Hoo, Hoo, says Tom, if I had got20money I need not been this way till nowMoney,you fool, said the old woman, therenot such a thing to be got for money in alEngland, Ay, says Tom, there’s a doctoin Newcastle, will make me as able as an;other man for ten guineas. Ten guineasaid she, I’ll give him fifty guineas if hwill; but here is twelve, and go to hirdirectly, and see what he can do, and the:come again and wed my child, or she an*I will both die for thy sake. Tom havin.nowr got twelve guineas more of theimoney, got all things ready, and early nex;morning Set out for Newcastle, but insteaiof going there he came to old . Scotlancand left Polly and her mother to thin'upon him. In about two weeks thereafteswhen he wTas not like to return, nor simuch as any word from him, the old womaiand Polly got a horse, and came to Newcastle in search of him, went thro’ all f’doctor’s shops, asking if there came a younjlman there, about two wrecks ago, withbroken to mend ? Some laughedher, others vTere like to kick her outdoors, so they had to return without geflting any further intelligence of him.Now, after Tom’s return to Scotland,got a wife, and took a little farm near Dai]keith, and became a very douse man, fcmany years following his old business, tlkoupihg horses and cows, and feeding veals: or the slaughter and the like. He wentI' me day to a fair and bought a fine cowrom an old woman ; but Tom judged fromhe lowness of the price that the cow had:ertainly some very great faults. Tomfives the wife the other hearty bicker of:de, then says, hae, guidwife, the money isi rours and the cow is mine ; you maun tellime ony wee faults it has. Indeed, sayshe goodwife, she has nae faut but ane, andif she wanted it, I would never a partediwi’ her.- And what’s that gudewife, saidhe ? Indeed said she, the filthy daft beastrsucks ay hersel’. But says Tom, if thathe all, I’ll soon cure her of that. 0 ! canyou do’t, said she, if I had kent what wadjdon’t, 1 wadna sold. A-weel, says Tom,I’ll tell you what to do, tak’ the price Igave you just now, and tie it hard and fastin your napkin, and give it to me, throughbeneath the cow’s wame, and I’ll give youthe napkin again o’er the cow’s back, and111 lay my life for it, that she will neversuck hersel’ in my aught. I wat well saidshe I’se do that, an’ there should be witch¬craft in’t. So Tom got it thro’ below thecow’s wame, he takes out his money, andgave the wife her napkin over the cow’sback, as he promised, saying, now, wife,you have your cow, and I have my money,22and she will never suck herself in myaught, as I told you. 0 dole! dole ! criedthe wife, is that your cure ? You’vecheated me, you’ve cheated me.Tom being very scarce of money onetime when he had his rent to pay, and tho’he was well acquainted with the butchersin Edinburgh, and tried several of them,yet none of them would lend him as much,he was known to be such a noted sharper.So Tom contrived a clever trick, to givethem all the bite in general, who thus re¬fused him ; in he comes next day, (forthey had all heard of the fine calf he wasfeeding), and tells one of the butchers whodealt with him, that he was going to sell •the calf he had at home. Well said thebutcher, and what will you have for it ?Just thirty-five shillings, says Tom. No,says the butcher, but by what I hear of it,I’ll give you thirty. Na, says Tom, youmust remember that it is not the price ofit, but you may give me twenty shillingsjust now, and send out your lad to-morrow,and we’ll perhaps agree about it. ThusTom went through ten of them in one clay,and got twenty shillings from each of them,and kept his speech against the law, forwhatever they ofiered him for his calf hetold them to remember that was not to bethe price of it, but give me twenty shillingsust now, and send out your lad to-morrow.nd perhaps well agree, was all that pass-d. So Tom went home with his ten'»ounds and paid his rent. Early nextuorning the fleshers came to Tom’s houseor the calf, and every one called for hisalf, but Tom had only one to serve them11. Now, says Tom, whoever will givepost, and speediest shall have it, I will putto a roup. What, says one of them, mynaster bought it yesterday. Then, said|(om, you would be a great fool to buy ito-day, for it is fashious to lead and heavy3 carry. —fZS* A ANECDOTES.MARCH OF INTELLECT.I Two country carters, passing the en-i-ance to the Arcade, Argyll St., Glasgow,bserved painted on the wall, “No Dogs toloiter here.” “No Dogs to enter here! ”ixclaimed one of them, “ I’m sure there’spe use for that there.” “ What way, Jock.”iplied the other. “’Cause dogs cannaead signs,” said he. “ Ha, Ha, Jock, ye’rejaay be wrang, Ise warran ye gentle folk’sjjcfes ’ill hen’t brawley, for there’s schools,l*oo, whar they learn the dumb baith tojibad an’ speak.”24 1 -HOW TO READ A SIGN BOARD.A highland Drover passing through acertain town, noticed a Sign-Board abovean entry, with the following inscription:Green Teas, Baw sugars, Marmalades,Jellies, Capped Biscuits, and all sorts ofConfectionary Goods, sold down this entry,read it as follows :—Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids,Jades, Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts ofConfusionary Goods, sold down this entry■1ADDITION.A farmer’s Son, who had been sometime at the university, coming home tovisit his father and mother ; and being onenight with the old folks at supper, on acouple of fowls, he told them, that by therules of logic and arithmetic, he couldprove these two fowls to be three.—“ Well,let us hear,” said the old man ; “ Why this,”said the scholar, “ i one and this,” con¬tinued he, “ is two, two and one, you knowmake three.” —“ Since ye hae made it outsae weel,” answered the old man, “yourmother shall hae the first fowl, Til hae thesecond, and the third you may keep toyoursell.”