THE!0Soldier’s Return,v/ I T H II i sKIND RECEPTION,TO WHICH ARE AD OB D,SATURDAY’S NIGHT at SEA*BUXOM NAN OF DOVE R.jiJAMIE GAY on the RIVER TWEVD..LIBERTY MUCH TO BE D! SIRED.G L A S G O W,'PRINTED BY }. and M.ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, fSpT*- ( 2 )THE SOLDIER'S RETURN.TUNE—THE MILL, MJLL O.VI 7Heft wild war’s deedly blafl; was biawn,'V and gentle peace returning,And eyes again with plcafure beam’d,that had been bleer’d with mourning;I left the lines, and tainted field■where long Td been a lodger,>Iy humble kuapfack. a* my wealth,a poor and honeft lodger.A leal light heart was in my breafi,my hands unftain’d with plunder tAnd for fair Scotia, hame again,l cheary on did wander :l thought upon the Banks o’ Coil ;l thought upon tny Nancy ; ^I thought upon rhe witching finitethat caught my'youthfu* fancy.At length l reach’d the bonny glen,where early life I fported ;I pad the Mill and Tryfting-Thorn,where Nancy aft l courted:Wha fpy’d 1 but my ain dear niaid,down by her tnither’s dwelling!And turn’d me round to bide the flood,that in my een was fweUing.t 3 )AVi’ alter’d voice, quoth I, Sweet Lafs,£weet as yon hawthorn bloflbm j■ O l happy, happy may he be,that’s welcome to thy bofom ;j My purfe is light, I’ve far to gang,and foin wad be a lodger ;1’vc ferv’d my King and Country lang,tak pity on a fodger.Sae wiftfully Ihe gaz’d on me,and lovcliei w-s than ever;Cbiodi tlie, & lodger once L lov’d,^forget him will l never ;Our hnmble cot, and homely fare,ye freely ihali partake it.That gallant badge, the dear cockade,ye’it welcome lor the farce o’t.She gaz’d—file redden’d like a -refe- fyne pale like ony lily,She lank within my arms and cr\’d,art thou my ain dear Willie?—Dy him that made yon fun and llcy!by whom true love’s regarded,1 am the man—and thus may hill,true lovers be rewarded.The wars are o’er and I’m come hitnc,and find thee flill true hearted ; ,Tlio’ poor in gear, we’re rich in love,and mair we’le ne’er be parted.Quoth (lie. My irandfire left me gov/d,a mciiiii plentfii’d'iairiy jAnd come my & khful lodger lad,thou’rt welcome to it dearly.For gold the merchant plows the main;the farmer plows the manor ;But glory is the fodder’s prize.the lodger’s wealth i* honour:The brave poor fodger ne'er dofpife,nor count him as a (trangcr:Remember he’s his country's dav,in day and hour of danger.S A T U AID A Y’S NIGHT at SE A.5 jp Was Saturday night*, the twinkling liars,-* . fh.one in the rippling fea :No duty call'd the jo—vial fars,the helm was lalh’d a—lee the helm, &c.The am—pie cann adorn’d the board,prepar'd to fee it out,Each ghve the Lafs that he a—dor’d,and pufh’d the grog a—bout,and puQi’d the grog a—boutCry’d honed i’om, my Peg I’ll toad,a Frigate neat and trim.All jolly Portfmouth’s favourite bead ;Td vAture life and limb. I’d, &c.Sail for {even years and ne’er fee land,.with dauntlefs heart and dout,So tight a vrdel to command :then pulh the grog about, then, &c.&c.jl,l! give, qyM littie Jack, my Pol!,failing in comtly ftate,| Top ga’nt-fails fet, (he is fo all,Ibc looks like a firif-ratc. (he looks,I Ah! would the take her jack in tow,| a voyage in life throughout,|Ko better birth Pd with to know:then pufli the grog about, then puOi, &c,jm give, cry’d I, my charming Nan,l| han(ifoiae, neat, and tight,ith joy. fo neat a fiup to man !J oh! (he’s my heart’s delight, oh J See.ilSo w."!! (he bears the ftorm of life,I I’d fail the world throughout.jjBrave ev’ry toil foi- fuch a'wife,then puth the gro.; about, then pufti, Sec.(Thus to deferibe Poll, Peg, or Nan,each his bed manner tried,[Till fummon’d by the empty cann,* they to their hammocks hied : they, &c.| Yet ftiil did they their vigils keep,though the huge cann was out;jFor in foft vifion’s gentle deep,dill pudi’d the grog about. dill, &c.IS BUXOMNAN.*^1" 'He wind was hulh’d, the dorm was over,. g_ unfurlV was e*—very flowing fail,!From toil releas’d, when Dick of Dover,went with bis mefs-inates to regale.( 6 )A]1 danger'i' o’er, erv’d he, my neathearts,svid {til] give me rr,y buxom l^an;Ccn;e bear s i"od, \&\\ toaft o^ur fvceihfarts',arid firil i'll give r,v. buxom Nan.And nriL Pil gtvo u\y buxom Nan.She’s none of uxy tnat s always gigging,und ilem and {i*rr> made up oi or. jOne Knows a ve{T?l by her riggingfuch livvei flight a conftant heatt; _With liraw-hat, and piuk-frreamers flowing,h.ow eft to meet me has {he ian :VP hi to for dear He would I be rowing,to meet with finiies try buxom Nan. i.ic«ic.-v junyboat went to the indiesto fee Htn icare when he came back,The git Is are all fo oft the b*nge.s,his Poll v.’fS qtiite unknown to Jack iTant-mafted all, to fee who’s talleibbreafbtvorks, top-ga’nt fails mi a fan ;Mefs-mates. erv’d h more fan tmm bahrH,ar>d lliu p\t me my buxom Nan .^c.None oo life’s fea cars fail more quicker,to (how her love, or xerve a friend •But hold, I’m preaching e’er my liquor,thk one word more, and there s an end.Of all the wench's vmatlomever^ j^.Yj then, f -.d me out who can,One half io t ue, io kind, to clever,fweet, tr; n?. and neat as buxom Nan^Swteb trim, and neat, as buxom Nan.j A M I E a \ Y.AS Jirnis Gay ga’cd b’yt*2 his way,alo':'! the dver T veed,A bonny I,sis, a; e’er was feen,came tripping o'er the mead :The hearty Twain u taught to feign,the buxom nymph survey’d,Aod f ill of glee, as lad could be,be Took e the pretty maid.Dear Laflle teh, why by thyfeH,thou haft’ly wand’refl here?My ewes, Ihe cry’d, are ft raying vride,can’ll tell ms Laddie, where ?To town I )>y. he made reply,forr.e meikle fport to Tee ;! But tliou’rt To Tweet To trim; and neat,i’ll feek the ewes with thee.She gave her hand, nor made a ftand,but lik’d the youth’s intent:O’er hill and da’e, o’er plain and vJe,right merrily the^ went.The birds Tang Tweet, the pair to greet,and tlow’rs bloom’d all around;And as they walk’d, of love they talk’d,and joys which lovers crown’d.And now the fun had rofe to noon,the zenith of his power,’When to the (hade their ilens they made,to pafs the mid-day hour.r a )The bonnv Lad, row’d hi his plaid'L’j whe fcornM to frowa ;IB* * fwoo /ergot the ewes Ihe fought,and he to gang to town.err 'iimmiLI BER rV much to bb PRIZED.SINCE evhy charm on earth combine.In Chloe’s bread, in Chloe’s mind.Why was I born ye gods to fee,What robs me of my Liberty.Until that fata! haplefs day.My life was lively, biythe and gay.Could fport with every one but Ihe,Who robs me of my Liberty.Think then dear Chloe ere too kte,That death muft be my haplcfs fate.If love and you do not agree,To fet my heart at Liberty.Now to the darkfome woods I rove,’Refle&ing on the pains of love.And envy every clown I fee,Enjoy the fweets of Liberty.We’ll follow Hymen’s happy train,And every idle care difdain.We’ll live in fwcet tranquility.Nor wifli for greater Liberty.GLASGOW,Printed by J. and M, Robcrtfon, Saltmarket, r8oa.