LIFEWHO WASecvttetf.at Edinburgh, 18‘h 1821* FORTHE MURDER OFTHE DUMFRIES JAILOR.CONTAININGThe whole of his depredations and Murders, faitfully copied from the large Hook written by hiiself. Being the whole substance, without t!superfluity of language, brought into the folio'ing Pages.-—With an Account of his Behavipat the place of Exe-culion.Prfated for the Booksellers,LIFEOKDAVID HAGGART.11 \ A VID IIAGGAK I' was born atafarmI1'* town, called the Golden Acre, neari|j(’annon-mills, Edinburgh, on the 24th ofdune, 1800, his father was a game-keeper,Jbut afterwards a dog-trainer. He was earlyput to school, when he acquired a goodknowledge of English Grammar, Writing,and Arithmetic. About the age of ten,a trifling accident occured at home, whichI for fear of punishment from his father,| determined him to leave home, and fromthat moment he dated the commencementof his sinful career. He had made no wick¬ed acquaintance as yet, but committedseveral depredations by himself.The first of these was stealing a BantamCock from a woman at the back of theNew Town, Edinburgh. Having takena fancy to it, he offered to buy it, but thewoman would not sell it ; be fell on thescheme of putting another cock of his owra-fightin<i, and then came off with hi |prize. His next was lifting a shop till frooia poor woman in Stock-Bridge. Beingsome miles from town, ami tired, hiiminted a poney which was [grazing' o|the road-side, anil rode home, where hikept it for some time in an out-house'where he formerly kept a cuddie ; he kepiit there lor several days, until the owneifound it out by accident. At Leith racf‘4in ISIS, he enlisted in the Norfolk Militia1)and learned the drum ano bugle-horn; th|regiment was disbanded about a year aftei^wards, and he was discharged.His father was then living in the soutlhack of the Canongate, Edinburgh, amhe went home, when he was put as an apprentice to the Mili-wright and Engintering business, with Cockbiirn and Baird, iithe Lanongate, where he behaved withonesty, and was very well liked by hiemployers.His master having given up business, hwas of course thrown idle, and at this timgot acquainted with many worthless characteis, among whom was one Barney, aIrishman; he had been bred a taylor iDumfries, he was older than Haggatt, cgreat bodily strength, and a mosTskilfipickpocket. Barney put him up to a nunber of tricks, and they agreed to traveltogether.In August 1817, when just on the pointof going to England, they past a day atPortobello races, and picked a gentlemanss pocket of L. 11 , the first ever Haggart at¬tempted in day-light; with this tock out-1 side places on the Jedburgh coach, andigot themselves genteel ey dressed. They! attempted St. James’s fair at Kelso, andI picked L.28. from two persons:—from! | thence they went to Dumfries, and stoptj three weeks ; they attended Lockerby fairtlttud going into a public house, a farmerand drover was casting out, when Barney'blew the coal, and they fell a-fightlng’, andboth tumbled; Barney picked the farmer’spocket of L.2o. Haggart called for thewaiter, and appeared in a violent passion,I paid for a bottle of porter, abused him forputtiBg them into such company, and im-} mediately left, the house. They departedI next morning, and went to Langholm fair,where they took from a sheep farmerl,.100. in ten pound notes, and^L.tO., intwenty shilling- notes. About halt an hourafter they saw John Richardson, a Dum¬fries Officer, running about, but he didnot notice them. They took a post-chaiseaid went to Annan, and next day tookthe coach for Carlisle.On other nights they got 3 gold vratfes ; they took about L 70- in the wit:'dnriitg their stay at Newcastle* i hey tlfwent to Durham, and at night hr ok1lonely house on the road to Yotk ; tgot L.^O. there; tiiey were apprehemfor this act, tried and found ginilty, tput baok to prison, to he brought upsentence of death at the end of the assi|Tlieybroke prison that night, but Hag-1only escaf>ed : he provided himself willrope-ladder, and give the same to Bam'who made his escape that same night.When Haggart was comirig to Durlvfrom York, with the saw, in company vva York pick-pocket, they were purstjby two constables ; and just as one vapprehending Haggart, he laid him 1with his pistol—They got clear awav, rhe never knew whither the man was nr>tiered or not, but he thought so.— Tlinext went to Coldstream fair, and Barnbeing round attempting a farmer’s pocktgot three months in Jedburgh jul. H:gart went to Newcastle again, and tosame lodgings, where he was treated ha spn ; little did the people know who thwere so kind to.—He did numerous tri<here, and then proceeded to Edinbuqwhere he carried on the same line ; lie (not live in his father’s house.6p September, he started for Perth withHenry, and had some adventures.—J?y returned to Leith, and were takenlie Police for some crimes, got Vail,were liberated.Tagaart had a number of adventures ininburgh and neighbourhood, and wasfour months in Bridewell. After be*released, he met with some of his com-jiions, and took a trip through the north,was in Aberdeen Jail for some time,after committing more depredations,urned to F.dinburgh.Fhev broke into several houses in Edin-ygh and Leith, and on \'ew-Year’s morn-l?>yO, Hnggart had for his share, fiveer watches, and a gold one, taken onsouth and north bridges. He remain-in Edinburgh till the ISth, when heS taken up and put into the Lock-upuse to find bail: lie got out, and oneht paid a visit to the Lock-up chouse,d gave the keeper so much drink, thatgot the key, and liberated six prisoners.He went to Leith the night following,1 took lodgings in Cupar street, andd with a woman of the town ; whilere he- committed various acts in Leith,inburgh, and neighbourhood, by tyingne shop doors, and thrusting his hand7through th<j windows, and grasping what¬ever goods lay in his 'oad: breaking into Inumerous houses, picking pocketsofwatch-; ]es, &c.— In the course of these operations ihe removed to different lodgings, JOn the first of March, while sitting inuhis lodgings with a pickpocket of the name )of Forrest, in Johnson Street, North Leith, iCaptain Ross, of the Police, and one of?his men came in upon them; Ross seizedForrest and carried him offj leaving Mag- >gart in charge of the Policemen: when leftalqne, the Policeman openeti a bed-room Idoor, and was looking into it, when I lag-}gart forced him in, locked the door, and fwas making his way down the stair, when 1he was met by Ross and another Police¬man; a str uggle commenced, but the threeoverpowered Haggart, and he was carriedto the Police Office streaming with blood.He was kept here two chavs, and then, put}into the jail to stand trial. On the g?thMarch he got a small Hie, and cut thechains off his legs, penetrated through twothick walls with his handcuffs, liberaledForrest, and got to the outside about Hveio’clock next morning When on the out-jer stair, he saw a man coming up Queen}Street, and he prepared to give him battle 3but the man oniy said, “ Run, Hagga> 1\run, I wont touch ye,” Haggart took hold1 i8?f Forrest’s hand, and ran even on to Dal-£eiU>, without stopping; staid there alllight, and stole twelve yards blue cloth ;tarted at two o’clock next morning forxelso, robbed a farmer of L 4.. aud set offor Dumfries. They were joined by two*ther pickpockets, one of whom was hang-:;d shortly after at Glasgow.In Dumfries, he picked several pocketsmd entered different dwelling houses; henet witli his old friend Barney M‘ Guire,I lever having seen him since they partedf Kelso in 1818. They were intending toeave Dumfries that night, but Barney was(ikeu up. Haggart started for (Carlisleext morning, but was overtaken and carri-d back to Dumfries. Captain Ross ar-ved in a few days, and carried him backo Leith Jail.Barney was transported for fourteenears. Haggart was tried at Edinburgh onbe l^th. of July, hut got off; he was thenent to Dumfries to stand trial at the cir-uit there for house breaking. His trialid not go on, and he was sent to jail—here he got acquaint with a lad, Johnunbar, who was under sentence of trans-orlation. He also got acquaint withsomeop e belonging to the town, who seem-willing to do him a favour ; so Haggartde the plans of four keys, and a personwas to get thena made for him, there beingfour doors betwixt his eeli aud the streetHaving thus, as he thought, secured hidlibert}', he was too easily led into anotherscheme with Dunbar. Haggart though)himself certain ©f his own liberty, but h«lthought it would be a grand tiling to clea;the jail of all the prisoners. Laurie, anolther prisoner, proposed getting a stone1and tying it in a napkin, and some monringto knock down Hunter, the head jailorand take the keys from him. Haggart wa|tiot fond of using the stone, as he did noiwant to hurt the jailor ; and he proposedwhen Thomas Mprnn came up to the maiunder sentence of death, to gag him intia closet at the head of the stair, and tak1the keys from him ; Dunbar, and som;others got the stone and put it into !bag.On Tuesday the iOth of October, aboutwelve o’clock, they noticed Hunter, tinHead turnkey leave the jail to attend tintwo ministers, whom he locked up iithe cell with ATGrory, who was undesentence of death,—Shortly after Haggarplaced himself in the closet at the head othe stair, where he had previously put tinstone and bag. Dunbar then called u[Morrin to let out the ministers. He cam<10ip accordingly with a plate of potatoesoup for M'Grory, and when he got to(he top of the stair, Haggart came outipon him from the closet, and the push-ding open of the door knocked the plate outH his hand; he then struck him one blow,’ith the stone, dashed him down, andvithout the loss of a moment, pulled theley of the outer door from his pocket; heave only one blow with the stone andthrew it down. Dunbar picked it up, butp more blows were given, so that Mor-fin must have received- his other blowsjp falling. Haggart observed Dunbar onlie top of him, rifling his breast for iheley which lie had got. Simson had aSold of Morrin’s shoulders, and was beat-hg his back upon the steps of the stair.—Ipaggart nished past them, crossed theiftair as speedily as lie could, pulled the keyFrom his pocket, and opened the outer]oor ‘4O-i getting out at the door he ran roundflu* east corner of the jail wall, and thenjv’alked rapidly round the back-street, andfound a great part of the town, till helame to the back of the King’s Arms Inn.Dunbar made np to him, and that verynoment they saw a policeman comingight up to meet them; on this theywheeled about and ran, but Dunbar was    w Itaken before he ran ten yards, and Maigart had the mortification to see his fello]adventurer secured; he once thought'bolting among them to rescue him, b|the mob was too great for him ; he we.up through the yard of the King’s Arifwithout meeting anv body, crossed tlHigh Street, and ran down the venneljthe Nith. He kept along the watersiltill he got away to the east of Cumlangjwood, having run nearly ten miles in Ifthan an hour. He then got on the hiroad to Annan, when he saw a post-chaiat full gallop almost within twenty yajof him. Upon this he buttoned his coiand leapt a hedge into a field where solpeople were raising potatoes. Theyjoined the policemen, who had got outthe chaise in pursuit of him ; he crosthe field at a slapping pace, and madeCuhdungan wood ; he bolted over a vdeep dhch covered with briers, and rafew steps along the side of the hedgemake the police-men think lie was gointo the wood ; he then wheeled roulooted, and when they went up tiie <side of the ditch he ra:a down the othlittle did they know he was so near tluhe could have breathed upon John liiardson as he'passed him. In this way;came to the cross road which leads fjfie Nith to t!ie public road, and never did’fox double the hounds in better style.He tin n made for Annan, and gettingn a mile or two on the Carlisle road, heent into a belt of planting. Watchingh opportunity, he dived into a hay stack,ad lav there till next dav at two o’clock* 2 *the afternoon, when he heard a womana boy, if that lad was taken who hadroke out of Dumfries jail; the boy an¬gered no, buj; the jailor died last night.Pn hearing this, Haggart lay insensible forgood while ; he left the stac/r, and see-g a scarecrow in the field, he took some' the old clothes and put them on to dis-ise himself. On the Wednesday nightl: slept in a hay loft; in the morning twoSen were feeding theii horses, andheovet-ard them speaking about him ; he stari-for Carlisle, and then to Mewcastfe,lefe 1m stopped for some days, and alongth one Fleming, picked L.‘22., in thelarket from a man : here he passed closeJohn Richardson who was in quest Ofm, bjit was not noticed. He left New-' iStle for Scotland, he got upon the Bef-I ck Coach, and then took a ticket for’iinburgh, but only went to Dunbar, itt||e (foach, remained in Dunbar, and feet:*for Edinburgh next morning ; met withgentleman, and took the some lodgingswith Iiirh in the Lord Duncan Tavern,Canongate. After separating from thegehtleman, he stopt at Jock’s Lodge with ii friend ; while here he visited his father, jand Some acquaintances, disguised in wo- iMan’S clothes. One night, dressed in his Iown clothes, taking a walk from Portobel- :!o to Leith, he met Captain Ross of the ILeith Police, their eyes met, and both |stood motionless until Haggart feigned to 'ptlil a pistol from his breast, the Captainknowing him too well before, immediately ,took to his heels, and IIaggart immediately iturned through the fields, and made to <Jock’s Lodge; he then crossed the Forth, 'arid went through Cupar to Dundee, anddisguised himself in sailor’s clothes ; here 1he committed a number of depredations.Me then returned to Newhaven, and wentup to Edinburgh, and the first thing hesaw was a bill posted up offering a rewardof 70 guineas for his apprehension ; thisdetermined him to go north again ; he ar¬rived in Dundee, and from thence wentto Perth ; he attended the fairs in Perth,Dunkeld, Kenmore. &c. and robbed someCattle-dealers to a considerable amount.One night in his lodgings in Perth, twopolice-wien came in upon him, but the de¬termined manner in which he receivedthem. Made them hesitate in apprehend-14ing and Haggart gained an opportunityto escape ; he left Perth for Glasgow, andmade up his mind to go to Ireland, andstarted in the Steam Boat; here he wasrecognized by the Provost of Kircaldy,who went ashore at Lamlash; Haggartwas ready to jump overboard, but theboat came off without the Provost; helanded in Belfast, where he attended fairs,&c, and was in continual scenes of robbing,knocking down, &c. At Drummore mar¬ket he was seized and taken before a ma¬gistrate ; lie was asked w'hat name he had,he answered in high Tipperara, it wasJohn M'Colgan, from Armagh ; he wascross examined, and shewn a Dublin paperwith a description of his person, &c.; hedenied being a Scotsman, and passed offthe brogue so w'el! that the magistrate wasin doubts; but he was ordered to be de*-tained, and three yeomen sat in the court¬house to guard him; he plied them so wellwith drink, that he prevailed on them tolet a young woman bring him some supper;and when she came, he got leave to speakwith her privately beloitd the boxes of thecourt, where there is a large window'; hebolted right through the window withoutbeing hurt by the fall: He crossed thestieet, and into an entry, where he sawhis keepers below the window staring at15each other; he started for Belfast and thento Dublin, and paid his passage for Ame¬rica at the Pigeon-house, but meeting inwith one called O'Brian, ho changed hismind; here he robbed a man of 100 gui-,neas in gold, and jaunted through the|country in Cars, with women of bad fsme; ihe was taken up tor robbing a drover at IDownpatrick, and put into jail, where hejsaw more scenes of wickedness than everihe had witnessed all his life ; the women’sroom was immediately above the men’s,,and eight day’s provision was served out!to them at one time; they blocked up the)doors, made a hole betwixt tjie two apart-jments, and kept possession in the mostriotous manner; before his trial he bribedthe drover to swear he was not the person,and he was banished for 7 years; in jailhe was visited by the magistrate of Drum-more, who Ordered the jailor to pur, himin strong irons.H/tggart denied that he had ever beenin Drummore, and said his name wasO'Brien, and not M'Colgan; he was movedto Kilmainjiamjail, among other criminals;here he made lus escape, but was catchedby some of the prisoners informing thejailor of his designs.Next morning the whole prisoners, con¬sisting of some hundreds, were taken down16to a yard, and ranked up in companies oftwenty each. In a few minutes John Rich¬ardson made his appearance, accompaniedby the two jailors and a turnkey. Johnbegan his inspection, and went over thewhole of them ; then making a secondlook-through, he stopped at 'daggart, heldout his hand and said, ‘ Do you ken me,Davie?’ He turned to the jailor, and ina masterpiece of Irish brogue, said, ‘ Whatdoes the man say?’ Don’t you knowhim ?’ was the answer. He replied, ‘ Trothi and by my soul, 1 know nothing at allabout him,’ Rut John persisted tha/ heknew him, and he was conveyed to theCondemned yard ; the jailor telling himif he was a Scotchman he was greatly mis¬taken, for he had the brogue as well asere a boy in Ireland,—but time would tryall. He was nearly two days in the con¬demned yard, during which* he had twovisits from John Richardson ; but he stout¬ly denied that he had ever seen him.On the evening of the second day Hag-gartwas taken to thehead police-office, andheavily load with irons. An iron beltwas fixed round his waist, with his wristspinioned to each side of it; a chain passedfrom the front of the belt and joined thecentre of a chain each end of which waspadlocked round his ankles, and a chain17passed from each wrist to each ankle. Inthis dreadful state of torture and confine^ment. he was conducted by John liichard-son, and an Irish officer by the name aiRobinson, to Dumfries. They were threedays and two nights upon the road, andall the time he never had his hand to hi?mouth, and was fed like a suckirng turkeyin bedlam, and treated like a helpless in¬fant, As to the officers who conveyed him,never could man behave better to his ownson then they both did to him. He hadknown John Richardson before, and hadlong been acquainted with his humane dis¬position, which was tried and proved onthis occasion. They travelled a good wayon the road before he would acknowledgethat he had ever seen John; but he sawthat it was of no use to keep up his pre¬tended ignorance any longer. Indeed,from the time he was placed in the con¬demned cells of Kilmainham, he had onlydone so out of obstincv.On their approach towards Dumfrieswhich was in the dark, there were manythousands of people on the road, many ofthem with torches in their hands, waitinghis arnral; and when he got to the jail-door, it was scarcely possible to get himout of the coach for the multitude—allcrowded for a sight of Haggart the18j urderkr. Some seemed sorry, andTie terrified for him ; but there was not: p of them all .so sorry, or so terrified asi jinself. He plunged through them, rat-| g his chains, and making a great showli courage, but his heart was shaking at; e thought of poor Mcrrin. As he wentthe narrow*stair to the cells, be had tajlss the very spot where he struck him ;i.d oh ! it was like fire under his feet.| He w'as locked up in his old cell, and|e greater part ot the Irish irons werejikeii off him. He was kept at Dumfries|‘OHt three weeks, during which he wasEice examined before the Sheriff; butey could not get what they call a dtclara-n out. of him, for he knew that wouldused against him, so he thought it asdl to keep his tongue within his teeth yd this he would advise every man whoaccused of a crime, to do, whether he isnocent or guilty. Mut when the examin-tion was over, he offered to tell the wholef his story to them privately, and he did?Ii a good deal of it.From Dumfries he was conveyed toEdinburgh Jail and placed once more un-er the charye of Captain Sibbatd, theindest and the best jailor in the world,dis word may be taken for this, as he hastad some experience. He was soon after19dieted to stand Ids trial before the Hhdi^ _onrt of Justiciary, -for the murder ofhorpa? Morrin.In about a fortnight, the day of hisial came. He had been carried the even-|g before from the Calton Jail to the.ock-up-house in the old town, and he wasliken into the Court about ten o’clock onhe morning of the 11th of June.| We shall conclude this Narrative, in hisiwn words:—“ Many witnesses were ex-imined against me, and some of them didcot speak the truth ; but I say nothinggainst them, for perhaps they were only!mistaken. 1 was fully as wicked as theylade me. There was one witness, whohould have said that he knew of our plan,nd our only object was liberty, not tomurder poor Thomas Morrin. But thisjvould have made no difference, for it washe pleasure of Clod Almighty that 1 should:ome to end.All that man could do was done for me(Jit my trial, and I had got hopes till themidge began to speak ; but then my spiritsfell, for his speaking was sore against me.I did not altogether despair when I sawthe Jury talking together. But, oh !—when they said Guilty! my very heartbroke; but I was even then too proud toyshew my feelings, and I almost bit my lip20through in hiding them When the Judgewas passing the awful sentence. I turneddizzy, and gasped for breath. They ?ay l\looked careless, but they could not seewithin me. I did not know what had Ihappened, or where f was—-1 thought offevery thing in a minute—L thought of my ^father—and I thought of my mothpr, wihodied of a broken heart—I thought of es¬cape, and very near made a plunge overthe heads of the crowd—then L could havecried out. When the sentence was ovqr,I gathered my thoughts, and my heart,was as haid -as ever ; for I said, “ Well!the man that is born to he hanged, willnot be dtowned !M 1 his was very wicked,hut I cowld not help it, for I had no com¬mand of my thoughts or words.But these wild and wicked thoughtssoon left me. Every, body was very kind tome. How this happens I cannot tel!, forfrom my infancy my hand has been against:every man, ami 1 never saw a human be¬ing without trying ta do them harm —,This kindness is a awful lesson to menow, but it has done my heart good, forit is the sorest punishment I have met withyet in this world. I have been visited byseveral clergymen. They have prayedmuch with me and for me. I told themI had no words to pray,, but they taught2Lme, made me read my Bible, and gave mehopes of mercy in Heaven—at least suchhopes as a poor miserable wretch like me• can have, for my sins stick close to me.I have.no thought now but death, andit is coming so near, that I must forgetthis world, and think only of the next.—1 have told all I remember of my life truly—I hope the tale will shew my old com¬rades, if they ever see it, that their wickedways will bring them to untimely ends.”EXECUTION.Early on the morning of his execution,David Haggart joined earnestly in devo¬tional exercise with his ministerial atten¬dant. After the Captain of the Jail hadgiven a prayer, one ot the officers of jus¬tice appeared, and requested all the per¬sons present to retire, as he had somethingto communicate to the unhappy prisoner.Haggart immediatey exclaimed in a hur¬ried tone, “ Oh ! I suppose it is the exe¬cutioner.” His firmness for a momentabandoned him, and he walked rapidlyacross the cel), with his arms folded, andQ<2with dark »nd deep despair strongly paint¬ed on his countenance. He speedily how¬ever, regained his composure: and whentl\e executioner did appear, at once allow¬ed ins arms to he bound ; he was then re¬moved to a ball in the lower part of theLock-up house, where he was received bytwo of the clergymen of Edinburgh, andthe magistrates. After prayers, the pro¬cession proceeded to the scaffold. Theconduct of the unfortunate youth therewas in the highest degree becoming While the beneficial influence of religionwas apparent in iris whole demeanour, hisnatural firmness of character never for amoment forsook him 5 he kneeled down,and uttered an earnest pi ayer ; and, afteraddressing afew words of deep and anxiousexhortation, to the great multitude bywhich he was surrounded, he met his fatewith the same intrepidity, which distin¬guished all the actions of his short, butguilty and eventful life.The following Lines were made by //ag-gart, the day after his condemnation ; buhis mind soon changed to a more serioutsubject, and his whole deportment wa.>extremely pious.Able and willing you will me find,Tho’ bound in chains, still free in mind;For with these things I’ll ne’er be griev’d,Alt ho’ of freedom I’m bereav’d.In this vain world there is no rest,And life is but a span at best;The rich, the poor, the old, the young.Shall all lie low before it’s lone'.\ ^I am a rogue, I don’t deny,But never liv’d by treachery ;And to rob a poor man I disown,But them that are of high renown.Now for the crime T am condemned,The same I never did intend,Only my liberty to take,As I thought my life did lie at slake.My life, by perjury, was sworn away.I’ll say that to my dying day.Ob, treacherous S , you did me betray,For all I wanted was liberty.No malice in mv heart is found.To any man above the ground ;Now, all my people that speak of me,You may say I died for my liberty.24Although in chains you see me fast,No frown upon my friends you’ll cast.For my relations were not to blame.And l brought my parents to grief ami .shame.Now, all you ramblers, in mourning go,Foi the Prince of Ramblers is lying low ,And all you maidens, who lo\e the game.Put on your mourning veils again.And all you powers of music chaunt.To the memory of my dying rant—A song of melancholy sing,.'Pill you make the very rafters ring.• Farewell relations, and friends also, •The time is come /hat I must go,'As for foes, I have but one,Rut to the same I’ve done no wrong.IT NTS.