the]THREEADVICES•/lit Irish I tile;TO WHICH IS ADDEDThe Silent Man./<?WITH AVariety of Anecdotes.GLASGOW:w. & it. nvciLis & co.,o, Melville Place, 132, Trongate.y ■'jVV'V'AS I3o• «* fi«* nat^ria «* CO"erv8eo/A: :04 f IJGGqOfGH*^-IIH T8!|G»f MS'D*'.0 AHICH li VDDEB*1»* V’.vn* SAHeiINII E E V 0 AIG E S: * Jon aBW ' •ii;on; Qilf j;rasrrt oil J.infi ,t'.oy od# io s*n9 litnrKvr ynj; a! ,[nofeir.D mfoL jui ovl ; 9.•G jitio'VBdsd fi/! noqu r9iiia &THEtu aloriw on-y!too 10 9Jr;I mTHREE ADVICES,AN IRISH TALE..uf-mJjml aid d-; 1 Mol ir. ,1 0/1 •There once came, what of late happened sooften in Ireland, a hard year. When thecrops failed, there was beggary and misfor¬tune from one end of the island to the other.At that time a great many poor people hadto quit the country from want of employment,and through the high prices of provisions.Among others, John Carson was under thenecessity of going over to England, to tryif he could get work; and of leaving his wifeand family behind him, begging for a bitand a sup up and down, and trusting to thecharity of good Christians.John was a smart young fellow, handy atany work, from the hay-field to the stable,and willing to earn the bread he ate ; and hewas soon engaged by a gentleman. The4English are mighty strict upon Irish ser¬vants : he was to have twelve guineas a-yearas wages, but the money was not to be paiduntil the end of the year, and he was to for¬feit the entire twelve guineas in the lump, ifhe misconducted himself in any way withinthe twelve months. John Carson was, tobe sure, upon his best behaviour, and con¬ducted himself in every particular so wellfor the whole time, there was no faultinghim late or early, and the wages were fairlyhis.The term of his agreement being expired,he determined on returning home, notwith¬standing his master, who had a great regardfor him, pressed him to remain, and askedhim if he had any reason to be dissatisfiedwith his treatment.“No reason in life, sir,’' said John:“ you’ve been a good master, and a kindmaster to me ; the Lord spare you over yourfamily : but I left a wife with two smallchildren of my own at home, after me inIreland, and your honour would never wishto keep me from them entirely—the wife andthe children !”“ Well, John,” said the gent’eman, “ youhave earned your twelve guineas, and youhave been, in every respect, so good a ser¬vant, that, if you are agreeable, I intendgiving you what is worth the twelve guineasten times over, in place of your wages. Butyou shall have your choice—will you takewhat I offer, on my word ?John saw no reason to think that hismas-te rwas jestmg with him, or was insincere in5making the offer; and therefore, after slightconsideration, told him that he agreed totake as his wages whatever he would advise,whether it was the twelve guineas or not.“ Then listen attentively to my words,”said the gentleman.“ First—I would teach you this-—‘Neverto take a byeroad when you have the high¬way.’“ Secondly—‘ Take heed not to lodge inthe house where an old man is married to ayoung woman.’“ And thirdly—‘ Remember that honestyis the best policy.’“ These are the Three Advices I wouldpay you with ; and they are in value far be¬yond any gold ; however, here is a guinea foryour travelling charges, and two cakes, oneof which you must give to your wife, and theother you must not eat yourself until youhave done so, and I charge you to be care¬ful of them.”It was not without reluctance, on the partof John Carson, that he was brought to ac¬cept mere words for wages, or could be per¬suaded that they were more precious thangolden guineas. His faith in his master was,however, so strong that he at length becamesatisfied.John set out for Ireland the next morningearly ; but he had not proceeded far, beforehe overtook two pedlars who were travellingthe same way. He entered into conversationwith them, and found them a pair of merryfellows, who proved excellent company onthe road. Now it happened, towards the end6of their day’s journey, when they were alltired with walking, that they came to a wood,through which there was a path that short¬ened the distance to the town they were go¬ing towards, by two miles. The pedlarsadvised John to go with them through thewood ; but he refused to leave the highway,telling them, at the same time, he wouldmeet them again at a certain house in thetown, where travellers put up. John waswilling to try the worth of the advice whichIds master had given him, and he arrived insafety, and took up his quarters at the ap¬pointed place. While he was eating hissupper, an old man came hobbling into thekitchen, and gave orders about diflerentmatters there, and went out again. Johnwould have taken no particular notice of this;but, immediately after, a young woman,young enongh to be the old man’s daughter,came in, and gave orders exactly the con¬trary of what the old man had given ; callinghim, at the same time, a great many hardnames, such .as old fool, and old dotard, andso on.When she w'as gone, John inquired whothe old man was. “ He .is the landlord,”said the servant; “ and, Heaven help him !a dog’s life he has led since he married hislast wife.”“ What!” said John, with surprise, “isthat young woman the landlord’s wife ! Isee I must not remain in this house to-night;’’and, tired as he was, he got up to leave it,but went no farther than the door before hemet the two pedlars, all cut and bleeding,.7coming in; for they had been robbed andalmost murdered in the jjrood. John, wasvery sorry to see them in that' condition,and advised them not to lodge in the house,telling them, with a significant, nod, that allwas not right there; but the poor pedlarswere so weary and so bruised, that theywould stop where they were, and disregardthe advice.Rather than remain in the house, Johnretired to the stable, and laid himself downupon a bundle of straw, where he slept sound¬ly for some time. About the middle of thenight, he heard two persons come into thestable, and, on listening to their conversation,discovered that it was the landlady and aman laying a plan how to murder her hus¬band. In the morning, John renewed hisjourney; but at the next town he came to,lie was told that the landlord in the town hehad left had been murdered, and that twopedlars, whose clothes were found all coveredwith blood, had been taken up for the crime,and were going to be hanged. John, with¬out mentioning what he had overheard toany person, determined to save the pedlarsif possible, and so returned in order to attendtheir trial.On going into the court, he .saw the two menat the bar: and the young woman and theman, whose voice he had heard in the stable,swearing their innocent lives away. But thejudge allowed him to give his evidence, andhe told every particular of what had occurred.The man and the young woman instantlyconfessed their guilt; the poor pedlars were8at once acquitted : and the judge ordered alarge reward to be paid to John Carson, asthrough his means the real murderers werebrought to justice.John now proceeded towards home, fullyconvinced of the value of two of the adviceswhich his master had given him. On ar¬riving at his cabin, he found his wife andchildren rejoicing over a purse full of goldwhich the eldest boy had picked up on theroad that morning. Whilst he was away,they had endured all the miseries which thewretched families of those who go over toseek work in England are exposed to. Withprecarious food, without a bed to lie downon, or a roof to shelter them, they had wan¬dered through the country, seeking food fromdoor to door of a starving population ; and,when a single potato was bestowed, shower¬ing down blessings and thanks on the giver,not in the set phrases of the medicant, butin a burst of eloquence too fervid not to gushdirect from the heart. Those only who haveseen a family of such beggars as I describe,can fancy the joy with which the poor wo¬man welcomed her husband back, and in¬formed him of the purse full of gold.“ And where did Mick, my boy, find it ?”inquired John Carson.“It was the young squire, for certain,who dropped it,” said his wife ; “ for he rodedown the road this morning, and was leap¬ing his horse in the very gap where Mickypicked it up; but sure, John, he has enoughbesides, and never a halfpenny have I to buy9my poor childer a bit to eat this blessednight.”Never mind that,” said John ; “do asI bid you, and take up the purse at on toee.the big house, and ask for the young squireI have two cakes which I brought evreystep of the way with me from England, andthey will do for the children’s supper. Iought surely to remember, as good right I havewhat my master told me for my twelve-months’ wages ; seeing I never, as yet, foundwhat he said to be wrong.”“ And what did he say ?” inquired hiswife.“ That honesty is the best policy,” answer¬ed John.“ ’Tis very well, and ’tis mighty easy forthem to say so, that have never been soretempted, by distress and famine, to say oth¬erwise ; but your bidding is enough for me,J ohn.”Straightways she went to the big house,and inquired for the young squire ; but shew-as denied the liberty to speak to him.“ You must tell me your business, honestwminan,’’ said a servant, with a head allpowdered and frizzled like a cauliflower,and who had on a coat covered with goldand silver lace and buttons, and every thingin the world.“ If you knew but all,” said she, “ I aman honest woman, for I’ve brought a pursefull of gold to the young master, that mylittle boy picked up by the roadside ; for sure¬ly it is his, as nobody else could have somuch money.”“ Let me see it,” said the servant.—“ Ay10it’s all right— I’ll take care of it—you neednot trouble yourself any more about the mat¬ter and so saying, he slapped the door inher face. When she returned, her husbandproduced the two cakes which his mastergave him on parting ; and breaking one todivide between his children, how was he as¬tonished at finding six golden guineas in it;and when he took the other and broke it, hefound as many more ! He then rememberedthe words of his generous master, who desiredhim to give one of the cakes to his wife,and not to eat the other himself until thattime; and this was the way his master tookto conceal his wages, lest he should havebeen robbed, or have lost the money on theroad.The following day, as John was standingnear his cabin-door, and turning in his mindwhat he should do with his money, the youngsquire came riding down the road. Johnpulled off his hat, for he had not forgot hismanners through the means of his travellingto foreign parts, and then made so bold as toinquire if his honour had got the purse he lost“ Why, it is true enough, my good fellow,”said the squire, “ I did lose my purse yester¬day, and I hope you Were lucky enough tofind it; for if that i& your cabin, you seem tbbe very poor, and shall keep it as a rewardfor your honesty.”“ Then the servant up at the big housenever gave it to your honour last night aftertaking it from Nance—she’s my wife, yourhonour—and telling her it was all right ?”11“ Oh, I must look into this business,” saidthe squire.“ Did you say your wife, my poor man,gavemy purse to aservant—towhatservant?’“ I can’t tell his name rightly,” said John*“ because I don’t know it; but never, trustNance’s eyes again if she can’t point him outto your honour, if so your honouf is desirousof knowing.”“ Then do you and Nance, as you call her,come up to the hall this evening, and I’ll in¬quire into the matter, I promise you.’’ SoSaying, the squire rode off.John and his wife went up accordingly inthe evening, and he gave a small rap withthe big knocker at tho great door. The doorwas opened by a grand servant, who, with¬out hearing what the poor people had to say,exclaimed, “ Oh, go !—go—what businesscan you have here ?” and shut the door.John’s wife burst out crying—“There,”said she, sobbing as if her heart would break,“ I knew that would be the end of it.”But John had not been in merry Englandmerely to get his twelve guineas packed intwo cakes. “ No,” said he firmly, “ rightis right,and I’ll see end the of it.” S o he sathimself down on the step of the door, deter¬mined not to go until he saw the youngsquire ; and, as it happened, it was not longbefore he came out.“ I have been expecting you some time,John,” said he ; “ come in and bring yourwife in and he made them go before himinto the house. Immediately he directed allthe servants to come up stairs; and shch an12army of them as there was ! It was a realsight to see them.“ Which of you,” said the young squire,without making further Words, “ which ofyou all did this honest woman give my pursetop”—but there was no answer. “Well, Isuppose she must be mistaken, unless she cantell herself.”John’s wife at once pointed her finger to¬wards the head footman “ there he is,” saidshe, “ if all the world were to the fore—clargyman, magistrate, judge, jury and ail—there he is, and I’m ready to take my bible-oath to him—there he is who told me it wasall right when he took the purse, and slam¬med the door in my face, without as muchas thank ye for it.”The conscious footman turned pale.“ What is this I hear?” said his master.“ If this woman gave you my purse, William,w hy did you not give it to me ?”The servant stammered out a denial; buthis master insisted on his being searched,and the purse was found in his pocket.“John,” said the gentleman, turninground, “ yov shall be no loser by this affair.Here are ten guineas for you : go home now,but I will not forget your wife’s honesty.”Within a month, John Carson was settledin a nice new-slated house, which the squirehad furnished and made ready for him.What with his wages, and the reward he gotfrom the judge, and the ten guineas for re¬turning the purse, he was well to do in theworld, and was soon able to stock a smallfarm, wdiere he lived respected all his days.On his deathbed, he gave his children thevery Three Advices which his master hadgiven him on parting :—Never to take a byeroad when they couldfollow the highway.Never to lodge in the house where an oldman was married to a young woman.And, above all, to remember that honestyis the best policy..SCARCITY OF ASSES,The rev. Mr. Thom of Go van, rid¬ing home from Paisley, on a parti¬cular occasion, came up with twogentlemen, heritors of his parish, whohad lately been made justices of thepeace. They, seeing him wellmounted, as usual, were determinedto pass a joke on him, and accostedhim thus :—“ Well, Mr. Thom, youare very unlike your Master ; for hewas content to ride on an ass.” “Anass !” savs Mr. Thom, “ there’s nosic a beast to be gotten novv-a-days.”“ Ay, how’s that ?” said they. “Be¬cause,” replied Mr. Thom, “ they no w-make them a' justices oj the peace /”ANECDOTES.‘ - * - ' • .«J.ll'TT Jll.- ' -J ** ^THE LAIRD OF GARSCADDEN.. »:> ■:it r, _ r;Garscadden, and another countrysquire, happened one day, after akeen day’s sport, to visit rather un¬expectedly the residence of aWater-of-Endrick husbandman. Thesportsmen were very cordially receiv¬ed by the family, and among otherapologies the landlord regretted thatdinner was over, as he had justfinished some excellent chickens.Mak nae apologies, George,” saidGarscad, “ I weel believe what yousay, for I see the feathers (alludingto the marks of some pease brose(still on your breast.15/2A simple Highland girl, on herway home for the north, called theother day, as she passed by Crieff,upon an old master, with whom shehad formerly served. Being kindlyinvited by him to share in the familydinner, and the usual ceremony ofasking a blessing having been gonethrough, the poor girl, anxious tocompliment, as she conceived, her an¬cient host, exclaimed, “ Ah, master,ye maun hae a grand memory, forthat’s the grace ye had when I waswi’ you seven years ago,”l .vlaei J ■mov SUq J'uA‘8 v.ti>M aid lo sno ot giipfaiiA TAVERN INCIDENT.A traveller domidUng at an Americanhotel, exclaimed one morning to thewaiter, “ What are you about, youblack rascal, you have roused metwice from my sleep by telling mebreakfast is ready, and now you areattemping to strip off the bed-clothes:what do you mean P” “ Why,” re¬plied Pompey, “ If you isn’t goin’ to16git up, I must hab de sheet any how,’cause dey’r waitin’ for de table clof.".noh'J yJ bsaseq dds as (^sb isdJomen // rl)17/ f r>io rix> iiocfuA KIM AND A PHILOSOPHR.George III. while walking one dayat Windsor, met a smart little boywho was dressed in a suit of newclothes. The king, addressing himin his familiar way, said, “Well, mylittle fellow to whom do you belong?”The boy knew the king, and answer¬ed, “An’t please your Majesty, Jbelong to one of his Majesty’s beefeaters.” The king was so well pleas¬ed with the little fellow that he said,“ If you bend down on your knee Iwill allow you to kiss my hand.”“ Nay,” said the boy, “ 1 can’t dothat, for I would dirty all my newbreeches.”17THE SILENT MAN./<?Perhaps there never existed a mortalof a more whimsical kind of charac¬ter than myself. Silence has beenmy motto from my cradle; nor everhas it been remembered that I utteredtfree syllables at a time when therewas the smallest possibility of makingtwo answer the same end.It has often been remarked, by thosewho had the care of me in my infan¬cy, that I never laughed, cried, or ex¬pressed the smallest attempt at artic¬ulation, notwithstanding every nmanswas employed by my parents whichbore the least probability of accom¬plishing this desired effect.In this state of taciturnity I con¬tinued till I arrived at my fifteenthyear, when my father began to en¬tertain thoughts of placing me as anapprentice, desiring me to makechome of some profession I shouldlike. After having examined intothe whole circle of the aits and scien¬ces, I made choice of a limntr ; myreason for giving this the preferencewas, that I thought it the most fa-7 CISvourabje to my darling doctrine, Si-ence.The term of my apprenticeshipt.eing expired, I entered into busi¬ness for myself: but soon began toperceive the absolute necessity I layunder for a wife. I accordingly fix¬ed my affections on a young ladymy next door neighbour, who was nostranger to my peculiarity of charac¬ter, and therefore the most likely toproduce promotion towards my do¬mestic happiness. NotwithstandingI was determined upon the match,yer I could not at any rate prevailupon myself to open my lips to her;but I spoke very forcibly—with myeyes.—I began to follow her with thegreatest assiduity ; always, however,paying a proper regard to the tacitsingularity of my' disposition.' Wasshe at church— so was I—was sheat the play—so was I. I attendedher like a shadow, equally as coiitstant and equally silent.My attention to her at last attractedthe observation of her mother, who,having sent for me, addressed menearly as follows:—“ I have observed,19!2Sir, that you have latel)’ behaved inso very particular a manner to mydaughter, that it would be highlyindiscreet and unpardonable in me,as her mother, any longer to overlookit; I have, therefore, sent for you toknow your intentions, from yourself.If your views are dishonourable, 1beg you will remove them to someother object. If, on the contrary",you are actuated by honourable prin¬ciples, it is time y ou should now de¬clare it, as my daughter’s reputationmay be hurt by a continuance ofyour particularity. In a word, Sir,is it your intention to make mydaughter your wife??’ As I foundthere was now a necessity for speak¬ing, I gently squeezed her hand, andsaid, “ Yes." Thus ended this re¬markable courtship with only oneword on my side, and still less onthat of my intended wife’s.A close attention to business hav¬ing gredtly impaired my health,! wasadvitsed to take a country lodgingfof Ihe benefit of the air; but a lin-guar noise is not the only one I dis¬like; I am for ever changing my20situation. In one place, I was dis¬turbed in the morning by the crowingof a cock ; in another, by the barkingof a dog; and in the third, by thepattling of a parrot. In brief, mysilent disposition makes me miserableevery where ; therefore I am deter¬mined to immediately return to Lon¬don, where, in the variety of noise,neither cocks, dogs, pigs, nor parrots,can be particularly noticed ; and tillmy arrival, I subscribe myself,THE BELLMAN.The Bellman of Kirriemuir read awritten Advertisement in the midstof the multitude on a Fair day, asfollows : “ Notish, all persons dri¬ving their cattle through the lands ofLogie, to or from the market, will beprosecuted with the utmost rigour oflaw.” And immediately added, byway of sedative to ihe natives, “Yeneedna mind a’ this, lads, its only ahaver o’ the grievc’s.”SOUND FOR SMELL.A poor man went into a cook’sshop, in Paris, and remained for aconsiderable time, inhaling the smellof the meat. When about to depart,the cook, being disappointed of themoney, seized him and demandedpayment; the other refused, and itwas at last agreed that the mattershould be submitted to the decisionof the first person who went by ; thischanced to be an idiot, who gave thefollowing judgment;—that the poorman should put his money betwixttwo empty plates and so jingle it atthe cook’s ear, by which the manhaving fed on the smell of the meat,the cook would be paid with thesound of the man’s money.• i< y.i' 'ie '-■ '•iTid to 9flo «yhoY j(; }no7’ d' ocdIMPORTANT PROMOTION.A old woman who had a sonin a regiment of Fencibles, thenserving in Ireland, received a letterfrom the young man informingher that he had been promoted, and22now held the rank of corporal. Theold woman was much pleased withher son’s good fortune, and salliedforth to communicate the good newsto her friends. She called on aneighbour woman and told her thatJamie had been made an Admiral.“ An admiral!” said Janet, “I thoughtyour son was in the army, an Admiralsails on the sea,” “ At weel,” saidthe mother, “ I’m no vera sure o’ thename but it’s either an admiral ageneral or a corporal; it’s some o’the rals at ony rate.”in ii efgflit os him ytumv ov/t;; s!,' eo;  t.J: io \l 'i> ,;i in, !>,:rtr t • , t > ^idtTHE EMPEROR SEVERUS.The Emperor Severus being con¬fined with gout at York, one of hiscourtiers told him that the world didadmire how he could govern so manynations, separated so far from oneanother, and he so much troubledwith that disease. To which the Em¬peror replied. Sir, I rule the empirewith my head, and not with my feet;23APwith my temples, and not with mytoes.-imob odt nerf r .mv/gns ytairo atnoa, ^r,b -jfS  iodto odt Iiidg ’,n; aCARDINAL WOLSEY.An extravagant young noblemanhaving sold a manor which containedone hundred tenements, came rufflinginto court in a new suit, saying,“ Am not I a mighty man to bearan hundred houses on my back?”Cardinal Wolsey hearing this, said,“ You might have employed themoney better in paying your debts.”“ Indeed, my lord,” said the other,“ you say well, for my father owedyour father three half-pence for acalf’s head, here is two-pence for it.’’A RETORT.The late Alexander Bilsland, HighStreet, was a man of some wit, andvery good at a retort; he was very24irritable and easily offended. Onedaya poor student offended him and gotsome crusty answer, when the domi¬nie said, “ Yere unco short the day,Saunders.” “Od man,” said the other,“Yere no sae lang yeresel’.”srngldoff griuoy mgBvmtxo :;Aijonistnoo ifoid .VTOirum js BJoa gruviulgniffim emn-j t8tri9i auaJ uSibiiml adojidi-fua .iina v/oo r. rd ‘ ■ uoo oJni• o o; nsm yi.' dfff o I Jo ■ ■■h **. jlogd ym no ...a••no, be rm' arhhs ,aiilJ gfunro; yoalo7/ lanibafiOdot • boyolfpno syed uoYife • - .-'jjOuIi ■.*3 •tol Qanoij-llaii 99-iiIj -isritfii inoy”.ti •jo) yyffeKf-o a) ai aied J)B9il sdlao.THOTafl Alipii ,!>;> ; ifl A o) -• •rus ,liv/ ,911108 !o s £ ;’ffMl97 ?i.W 9(1 i J'IOjOJ JJTJBO’S 719,