THEBritifli GrenadiersTo which are addeJ,O the DAYS when I was Y O UNO.INVASION THREATENED,A NEW SEA SONG.The KIND are YOUNG and FAIR.QUEEN MARY’S Lamentation.Enrercd According to Order,( * )a •w". ■!'< ? sbvj'Tto r^nrTjRa ■»» ^;!S‘iV(ff-^* »(&)*.*i^iei ~«£££«a»; irsaz^s is^ar -so r*za4.ft) V(») t“ ;«! <u«iSIThe BRITISH GRENADIERS.SOME talk of Alexander,and feme of Hercules,Of Heftor and Lyfandcr,and fucb great men as thefe;But all the world acknowledges,true valour bell appearsWith a tow, row, row, row, row, row,brave Britifii Grenadiers.Thefe ancients of antiquity,ne’er law a cannon ball;Nor knew the force of powder/to flay their foes with ad:Eut braver boys have known it, \and banish’d all their fears, ^With a tow, row, row. row, row,.;row,. brave Britifii Grenadiers. ,When we receive the orders,to flcrm their pahfadaes ; 'Oor>ieaders march with fuzees?v .,and we with hand grenadO.es,We tafs them from the glaifs,amongfl our en’mies ears,With a tow. row,- row, row, row, row,brave Brtttfii Grenadiers.Then Jove the God of thunder,and Mars the God cf war;Rough Neptune with his Trident,Apo'lo in his Car ;And all the Gods celeftial,defeending from their fpheres.Do behold with admirationbrave Britilh Grenadiers,But be you Whig or Tory,or any other thing,l*d have you fltll remember,t’obey Great George our King;For if you prove rebellious,we’il thunder in your ears,With a tow, row, row row, row, raw,brave Britilh Grenadiers,And when the fiege is oyer,we to the town repairs,The Citizens cry, huzza, boys,here comes the Grenadiers .Here comes the Grenadiers boys,without e’er dread or fear,With a tow, row, row. row, row, revrjbrave BriiiOi Grenadiers.Come fill us up a bumper,and let us drink to thole.Who carry Caps and Pouches,and wear the laced clothes.May they and their commanders,live happy many years,With a to w, row, row, row, row. row,brave Britilh Grenadiers,Q the DAYS when I was Y O U tf G.OTlie days when I was young!when 1 laugh’d at Fortune’s fpight,talk’d of love the whole day long,and with nedar crown’d the night;Then it was Old Father Care,little reck'd l of thy frown,Kalf thy iiiauce youth cou’d bear*and at night a bumper drown.Clior. O the days when I was young!when I laugh'd at Fortune’s fpight.Talk’d of love the whole day long,and with nedar crown’d the night.Truth they fay lies in a well;why ? 1 vow 1 ne’er cou’d fee ;Let the water drinkers tell,there it always lay for meFor when fpaikiing wine went round,never faw I rallchood's malk ;But flili honeft truth 1 foundin the bottom of the flafle. O the days, fire.True, at length my vigour’s flown,1 have, years to bring decay;Few the locks that now 1 own,and the few I have, are grey;Yet old Jerome thou may’ll bcaff,while thy fpirits do not tire.Still beneath thy age’s froft,glows a fpark of youthful lire. G, &c.( 5 )*#4-4 *-f-*e 4--4IN V A.SIO N T H11 E A f £ NE D.ROnfs up Biitons! roufe! here's danger,Frenchmen dare invade our coafts;To fight and conquer—vou're no ftrangcrs,foon we’il tame their haughty boalts.Awaken. Britons! Frenchmen th’-eatento fubdiie our peaceful ifle :To arms! to arms ! let them be beaten^in frmit, in rear, e*cil rank and file.Roufe up, Britons i- roufe ! here’s, &c.Our King is wife, and well fupported,has men and money in his hand;His Generals are well efcorted ———*his fleets at lea bear foie command. &c.Our cavalry are flout end healthy,our Regulars, there’s none lo brave;Our Fcricibles are young and wealthy,and like the Train, none can behave. See,Field Marthal York, Great Britain’s glory,where’s the man will fit his call ?I’m fare he's neither Whig nor Tory,to’s country he’s but a llafcal. Roufe, &C.Awake, millions! York will lead you,lliould Frenchmen dare to crols the main ;And Britain’s Daughters they will feed you,’till Freitvliaicu be by Britons flaia. &c.Your Lords & Lairds ar’on tiptoe /landing,ready to repel the foe;And Volunteers, with thofe commanding,to deai to Frenchmen mighty woe! &c.Farmers and Peafonts—all are willing,to fupport both King & Country’s caufe jHe’s nothing but a cowardly Villain,that will not defend brave Britain’s laws.Houfe up, Britons! roufe! here’s dangers,Frenchmen date invade our coafls:To fight and conquer—you’re no ftrangers,loon we'-il tame thefe haughty boafts.C) (1)^.1-SCOA NEW SEA SONG.X7E hearts of oak, who wifli to tryX your fortunes on the fea,And Britain’s enemies defy,come enter here with me;Here’s fifty pounds bounty, fwo month’s pay,and leave to go on fhore.With pretty girls to kiis and play,can Brisiih Lars with more?Our ihip is flout and fails like wind,to chafe a hofl’de foe.To fight like Britons we’re inclin’d,we il let the Monfieurs know;Our Captain’s gen’rous, brave, and good, .of grog we'll have great llore,( 7 >Of prizes rich we’ll (-A-eep the fiood,v can Britifh Tars wifii more ?And when From driving Bourbon’s fleet,viciorious we arrive.With muflc, dance, and jovial treat,to pleafe our girls we’ll drive;Both Spanilh diver and French gold,we’ll count in plenty o’er.Which we have won, my ihipmates bold,c . r Britilh Tars wifh more ?The YOUNG are KIND and FAIR.a merry happy man,r flight the nymph l cannot nave,and doat on thofe I canChor. fnis conftant maxim dill I hold,to baffle all defpair.The Froward, ugly are and old,the kind are young and Fair.The women would no more petplex,v/ere men refolv’d and free,SoFt fmjles become the charming fex,' no pouting Mifs for me.In wedlock’s bands if e’er I join,good humour be my guide,Let dimpled f,Tides and love be mine,I’ll laugh at female pridi.O beauty born a willing flave,QUEEN MARY’S LAMENTATION.JS l G II and lament me in vain,thcfe walls can but echo my moan,Alas! it increafes my pain,when 1 think on the days that are gone.Through the grate of my prifon I feethe birds as they wanton in air,My heart how it pants to be free,my looks they are wild with defpair.Above, though oppreft by my fate,t burn with contempt for my foes,Though Fortune has alter’d my date,flic ne’er can fubdue me to thofe.Falfe woman, in ages to come,thy malice dereded dial! be,And when we are cold in the tomb,fome heart will dill forrow for me.Yc roofs where cold damps and diftnay,with filence and folitude dwell.How comfortiel's paries the day ?how fadiy tolls the evening bell ?The owls from the battlement cry,hollow winds teem to murinm- around,O M A It Y ! prepare thee to die,my blood it runs cold at the found.F I N I &