MEMOIR 9 OFTHE LATEJOHN KIPPESST,COOPER,In Methven, near Perth,To which is ai^ded,AN ELEGY ONPETER DUTHJE,Who was up /vrards ofEtCHrY YEARSA FLYING STATIONER.Stirling, Printed bv C. EUndall.Memoirs of John Kippen.JOHN KIPPEN, th« fubjeaof thefollowingfliort memoirs was thelaw-ful fon of induArious and honed pa¬rents; and was borii in that beautifuland romantic dilfncl in Perthlhire,known by the name of Logic Al¬mond. He was born in the year 1735.Hig parents, though in,a humble mu-ation, did every thing in their powerto educate their ion, as he fhewedfome very early marks of genius andready wit. Fheir circumftanccs how¬ever, were fo narrow, that they couldonly afford to fend him to fchool afew months during the winter ; 8c inthe fummer feafons he was employedintendingtheherds of a neighbouringfarmer, In this way he was occupiedfor feveral years, until he came to be1,2 or 13 years of age, when he washormd an apprentice to a cooper, wholived only about a mile from his fath¬er’s houle. During th : time he hadbeen at fchool, he had learned to read,and write a tolerable hind, knew thecommon rules of Arithmetic, andwhat is rather uncommon at a coun-| t-ry ichool, be ha<Hcarm as much gco«graphy, as enabled him to deferibeI the latitude and longitude "of any{ place in the map. Thus accomplifli-cd, young Kippen went upon his newoccupation, and though it was ill fui-ted to his lively and cnterprihng dif-pohtioc, he acquitted himfelf fo well,that he had the applaufe of his matterSc the good will of ill the cuftomers.In thofe days it was the commonpra&ice with country Coopers, to tra¬vel round among their cuftomers, inorder to repair their dairy, and otherutenfils; and in this way our herohad frequently an opportunity of dil-playing his wit, and excercifing his fa-4tirical taleiitG upon the young ruAici?in the nei|hhourhood, as well as ofpicking up every thing that was eith¬er edifying or witty* as it fell from the};ps of his acquaintance.—His mem¬ory was (irong and retentive, whichjoined to his ready wit, made him atonce the terror and admiration of theneighbourhood; for when offencewas given, hir- tongue or pin was fareto be employed to fatirife the offend¬ing party; which he always did withfuch effed, that he never failed to ren¬der his opponents ridiculous; andthefe fallies of wit were not confinedto the vulgar crowd, but were fre¬quently levelled at the great, the rich,and the opulent. The fear of Kip-pen’s lash made his frlendlhip to beoften courted, even by tbofe who inother refpefts, were eiteemed his bet¬ters.Having now finifhed hia appren-ticelhip, John refblved to travel, butas he had neither money nor friends,who were capable to do any thing forhim, he was under the necedity, iaorder to gratify his mind, to hire him-| felf to a drover who was going to Eng¬land with cattle. In this humble fi-tuation he travelled fevcral times asfar as Smithlield market ; and hadmade Several obfervations in the[ courfe ot his journies, which he ima-: gined would be of uie to him after-i wards. Thefe he communicated to £e-veral of his acquaintances at home.\ Among the reft of his ideas he hadi formed a refolution of going to thecounty of Norfolk to the bay makingand harveft work. This refoincioa ofour hero foon fpread, and in a fewdays no lefs than 40 volunteers offer¬ed themfelves to aceopipany him inthis expedition. This took place inthe fummer of 1790, when this coun¬try had newly declared war again ftFrance. Tiuy accordingly left LogicAlmond early in the morning, andarrived at the town of .Liver led thingin the evening, having marched zbout 48 miles. Here John learnt that6h<re was a very ftrong Prefe-Gangpolled at the South Queensferry, on¬ly a few miles diftant, and that it wasimpoflible, as they were all ya.ungfellows, that a Ungle creature ihould•«fcape. Had he told any of the reft,the darigey they were in, his eloquencelie well knew, could net have prevail¬ed upon a fmgle man of them to pro¬ceed, He however .thought on anoth¬er ftratagem. He went privately andtold his plan to his landlord, who wasan old acquaintance, and prevailedupon him to land a broad iword behad in the houfe. In John’s partythere were fevcral young highlanderswho couM play the bagpipe, and ashe could himleif play well on this in-ftrurnent, he had fortunately taken apair with him- to divert bimfeif andhis company on the road,; He there¬fore colic died the whole -band at anearly hour ncxe morning, and gottl^em embarked on board one of thelarge boats. Wh^n they were aboutthe middle of the paftage, which heretwo miles wide JoKn addrefled bisompanions in the following terms ;Friends, I can afliire you there is acry ftrong and powerful prelf-gangt the foiith ferry, which are mereban able to carry every mac of us on■>oard the tender, I have- devifed a"chetne, .which I am certain will favehe whole of us if you fabmtt; if y.oudo not, you are gone. I have nottime to tell you the nautre of myplan ; but you are to obey my or¬ders,” Long before this period thepeople in his native place, had fullconfidence in Julies abilities, andthey therefore gladly fubmitted tohis command. The boat in a Ihorctime arrived at the Ihore, where thegang were (landing on the pier. Ourhero was the firft who jumped ailiore,and with the air of a veteran, orderedhis whole company to fall in, withthe piper at their head, while Jo.aawent along ani counted the files, andordered the piper to play a favoritexuns, while the whole band marchedoff at the wofd cf command, and lea?the prefs gang in the tuli belief thalthey had fesn a detatchment of re|emits going to join a new Regimenta number of whom where forming ai‘the fame time.No man could be better calculatedfor an enterprife of this kind, thanJoHn Kippen, He was nearly 6 feethigh, had a fine ©pen countenance,■was of a ftrong, mufealar, athleticmake, and befides his natural acute-nefs, he bad by thic tinae, though on-iy twenty one years of age, learnt agood deal of fmartnefs by travellingto and from England. Thefc fortifiedby a little feif confidence, gave himan afccndancy wherever he went, thatfew people ever acquires, Sc very fewindeed at this period of life,Notwithf-anding' that few peoplein the world had higher notions ofthe principles cf honor and honefty,than John Kippen, he had fome veryfahcicus ideas concerning the termhonefiy, which it was never in thepower of icfelf to crradicate. For ex¬ample, it was impoffible to convincehim that a filh of any kind was morethe property of one man than of ano¬ther, or that a wild fowl or quadru¬ped who was not domeflicated, couldbe properly claimed by any one, or in(Other words, he imagined that allthefe were the property of the fportl-imao, who had as much ingenuity askill them. No doubt thefe ideas ori-I ginated with him in the way he wasbrought up. Being always adlive and[ lively, he was frequently taken out by| the young gentlemen in the neigh-! bourhood to aflifl: them in the diver-r lions of the field and the river, and hefuon became an excellent fportfoian.The game he law run from field tofield, wiihout any regard to the pro-,perty they fed on, /“ Thefe therefore(faid John) belong to nobody, and Ihave as good a right to them as anyman living, and as to the fifh, is itnot certain that (hey emigrate annu¬ally to the lea, and does not everyI o'proprietor on the backs of rivers, at¬tempt to catce at macy as he can,without any regard to the intereft cfanother, and hav* not I a right tocatch alfb ? Who feeds tbefe hihes ?Do they cofi any man any thing ? Nc.Why then fhcnid any man claim aproperty in them more than me. Ihave learnt to kill game, and I willcatch them, in ipite of every eppofi-ticD,,, Si:eh were the dc«51rines heldby this man, and, ft range to tell, thatins charadlet was never impeached e«ven by his enemies, for any breach inmoral hone ft yin arj cthcr^t^y what¬ever. This pi open fury of bis. howeverIreqnemly breught him to trouble,for the genthmen on whole groundsJohn Ipei ted, were of v'ery different \opinion npen this point; and he wasfrequently prefect ted for killingharts, and catching lilh. Onthdeoc-ctfipns he ccmmchly attended theconns of law in perlon, and defendedbimklfwith a tiegice of elcqnencQ*Ot ingenuity, which would have done ;IIhonor to a man of a higher raoh fhowever, unfortunately for John,,there were feveral A(5ls of Pariiamehtin diredt oppofitron to his doclriQe,&:he was generally fined ia a nominallum, thefe who were his pfofeaatorarather wifhing to frighten than topunifil him ; but as he continued hisold pradUccs, they a't lad determine^to carry the law in execution againffhim. For this purpofe officers wefeIrequently lent from Perth to appre¬hend him; but he a« frequently-elud¬ed their vigilance. At laft it v as de¬termined that he (hould be impriion-ed : and for this purpofe two wellknown ddp£f»te meiiit officers werelent in company to his houfe inMethven to apprehend him. He hap¬pened to be at the harvelt work atthis time, -about three miles frontMethven. Gcnnachar and Campbellthe two officers, enquired at all theneighbours for John, but no onewould tell them, and they were obli¬ged at laft to have recourfc to a con-I 2ftablcj in crdcr to obtain infcrmation.1 bis man told them where he was,but added, “ When you bring JohnnyKippen thro* Methven, I’ll gi’e youhalf a mutchkin o’ -whi/ky,” The of¬ficers fwore that they knew his cka-radler well, and they would take caiehe fhould net efcape ffom them. Theccnftable fhock his head, and defiredthem to try their ftrength to the ut-mod. They accordingly fotmd Johnat work in a field two miles weftfrom Methven They immediatelyfeized him, one on each arm. & werecarrying him forward in triumph,when they cnet the honeft farmer v. ithwhen; Kippen feed been fit work, go¬ing to the field. The Faimer thenfiept them, and tfkcd the reafen tortaking away his fervatt ? John toldhim it was on account of U-e fifcing.The Faimer laid he would give bailto any amount for him, rather thanhe fhould go to prifon. He was toldno bail would be taken. John thenlocked very earnddy at his matter,and faid, Sir, my ihoes are very bad,I believe they will not carry mer toI Perth, I would be much obliged tojyou* if you would exchange ftices, asI fee yours are very good. Dyes, faidthe Farmer, and immediately pulledjeff his llioes. John waf; held fo hardby the officers at this time, that hebad no alternative but prefs his ownifhoes ciT his feet %y placing the toeof the one> againft the heel cf the oth¬er j however, when his mailer’s (hoeswere off, he prelTed down, and got onejin each hand, and then put a hand inileach fhee, as it to try their widenefe,list fame time he clenched bis hits in;he infide, and by a fudden jerk, notpnly disentangled his arms, but ftrucklown the <fficeis by a powerfulIroke from esch fhoe, which were ve~y weighty, being full of iron in theKttom. He then fprung from his>uarcls like lightning, and did notigain appear until his friends obtain-d a fettkment for him, and reftoredlis freedom. The poor cfficers had toi4retrace t'neir fteps througii Methvenagain, with fure heads, while the peo¬ple were all coll died at the end ofthe town to fee their friend Johnny Ipals in the centre of bis guards. Bucwhen the officers caifte in the lame or¬der they went they did not pahs with¬out jeering and flouting, as may wellbe imagined.In the year 1757, 5chn had occafion togo to Glafgow on feme prelTing bufinefaand even to travel upon the Sabbath Day.a thing which he would not have done, but rfer the urgency of his bufinefs, for he was ;not only very refigioufly brought upbutwat^dually imprefled ferioujly in his own minewith the principles of religion,. The we^th€r was remarkably warm, and by the tim'John arrived at Kiifyth, he found himfelt 1exceedingly dry. He then enquired aftea public heufe, and could not gain admiltacce, from one hcule he went to anotbuntil h? had taken a circuit of the whitown, and was on the point of giving up tlidea of obtaining a bottle of ale, when he ;cidentally obfervedthe door of a public hoiortn. in 1 e went. & diked for a bottle.ha faid the landlady, we fell nae ale to foithat travel on the Lord's day, carrying ban¬dies : Good woman, faid John* if you knewwhat ray bundle contains, you would notrefufe me a bottle of ale. Ah ! dear me,faid the lad, what is't that's in your bundle ?•Indeed miftrefs I live in Stirling, and I hada brother, a wfiglit ladin Glafgow, who di-, ed fuddenly yeftcrday, and this is his wind-i ing iheet at the fame time fitting down ona chair, & heaving a heavy figh. The land¬lady’s humanity was by this time routed*(he ran to the bar for a bottle of brandy &:, gave John a hearty glafs to keep him frontfainting^ & afterwards &e treated him withbread and cheefe, and would not take anything from him but payment for the ale,S;;7r.S readers mav be inclined to ceaforepeer John for this piede of duplicity, bat it,ought to be conftdered that it was only i lit¬tle art which was applied on purpofe to gainhim neceflary refrefhment for his money.He had mo intention to deceive, only to pro¬cure him - this, and to take in the landladwas far from b'filng his intention,i! Another time coming down through Eng¬land, cn the welt road, a gem'em an alkedhim to carry a letter to a Mend of his, (an; aged lacy) iu Dunilxies-ftiife, near Ecc^.fechan-, and af feme lime told him that the-:tSlady was a Jacobite, that is a perfon who wasattached to the intereft of the houfe of Stew¬arts, and at fame time added, you wilt bekindly dealt with, if you behave yourfelf.John took the hint, and though there wasnot a mor* loyal fubjecl in the kingdom, herefolved for once to be a Jcobite. or at leaftnearly allied to them. Alter delivering theletter, the lady kindly invited him to takedinner and a giafs, in'tfae courfe of which, aconverfation cnfued. & fhe obferved he didnot fpeak the dialect of that part of the coun¬try ; fhe therefore alked him, what place hecame from ? to which John replied, Madam5 came from Perthfhire : Aye lad Perthfhire,did ye keu the duke of Perth ? yes Madam,and the Prince too. Is your parents alive ?Madam, my mother Is alive, bet my fatherdied on the ever memorable 16th April, onethoufapd, feven hundred, & forty fix, iu aglorious caufe, but ah Madam! aye laid ! youneed net fay any more, there’s half,a crownto yon, at the fame time clapping a half-:crown piece into John’s hand, which was amcellaryfuppty at the time, as John's flockwas then lew, and this enabled him to getheme, without hitting ary one know he wasIt want.It would be a tedious talk to relate a tenthpart of 11*2 anecdotes whfch plight ba toldof John Kippsa. Suffice it therefore to fayfthat he was one of thofe gemufes who arerarely to be met with It has been already{rated that he was ftrong and mufcular, buthe was alfo nimble and. agile to a degreefcarcely to be credited. His ready witmade^is company courted by people of altranks. His work ihop in Methven was thei common lounge of the town : there the in-I dependant man who lived upon his money,I could pafs an hour either for amufement orI iaftrucdoa, & there too the tradcfman could{ pafs a pleafurable hour when he had as| much time to fpare. Mr K'ppen had been1 in the habit of reading newfpapers and other| periodical work, from his childhood, ands was alfo a keen obferver of all that paffid un-1 der his o wn eye, and having a flroag me¬mory, and a nice knack of telling a Itory. itwas impoffible to find a creature more diver¬ting or indeed more edifying, its ear wasalways open to a tale of woe, and though henever could boalt of affluence, his charitiesi were extenfive, and his recommendations inavor of the poor were powerful, his failingsnight truly be laid to lean to virtue's fide.This venerable man cued at M idivcn in Juiy< • 807, lamented by all who had the p.eafurei8of his acquaintance, and by many who hadonly heard of his fhrewdnefs, and his manyeccentricities.ELEGIAC VERSES,WRITTEN BY A FRIEND.:io* rip? in years, and death expe&ed. too,|e eyrs muft water when thy turf we view;jjlong, dear Kippen ! fha!l thy mem’ry 'aft,Ing fhall tity friends -think on the timethat's paft,j|y courage great that unfubdu’d by time,|y afflons noble, & thy thoughts fublinje;ong feelings bring to every tender heart,,d makes us forry with our friend to part.® m ^*=-• ELEGY,Os the ever to be lamented death of Pete ;Duthie, who departed this life at Perth, on thj1st day of October 1812, after having tpent upwards of eighty years as a flying Stationer. H' 1;was bom near the town of Kirrimuir in Forfar ,.shire, in the month of May, 1721, and he tooup the profession of a travaling bookseller whe: ‘only about eight years of age, and continued iithe same line till the day of his death, exceptin itabout three years that he was a soldier or rathi la prisoner; for Peter was impressed into hiMajesty’s service in. the year 1755, but such ws 1,1his attachment to the house of htewart, that h jj.never wotild handle arms under thfc Hanoveriai >.family •, ^nd the regiment to which he was sltached, was obliged to discharge him, after ha|ing in vain tried every method to make htm.C;soldier. Peter Duthie was weil known in €ve| ,city,*towTt, village and hamlet in Great Britairtand his many whimsicalities will long contimj 1to be the thenie of rural speculation.21Lament ye people, ane an' a;ar Peter Duclue s e’en awa’;ae mair will Pate e'er travel roundhe circle o’ his native ground ;’ae mair shall he last speeches cry^or in the barns will ever lie ;fae mair shall he again appearusher in the infant yearith Almanacks frae Aberdeen,ie best and truest was seen ;ic mair shall he again proclaimte prophecies in Rhymer’s name;ir cell again the great commands,ir praise the beak ca’d Meally Hands;\x Arry’s ware for lads and lasses,fhich for the highest wisdom passes>r shall he Jock and Maggy’s tale;ain expose to viewer sale;ie mair shall he e'er gain a drampon the tricks'o’ Louden Tam;chanan’s wit he cannot praise,aft he did in former days ;Ir tell how Leper threw the cito auld Janet’s boiling pat.——i22O Death I how awful thy command,-Thou kills the fairest in the land.To thee baith-Kings and Princes yield,Some in tli£ bed, some in the field,To strong or weak, to high or low,No favor didst thou ever shew,The greatest beauty, fiercest scold,The strong, the weak, the young and old.On earth no longer finds abode,When smitten with thy fatal rod:Thy sov’reign will nae doubt it was,A It ho’ we canno’ tell the cause,To drive poor Peter from the earth,An’ cause sic mourning into Perth,."Where lang the honest body dwelt.Where mony a hunder beuk he selt,An’ where ten thousand wad defend him.And sae wad ilk ane d9ne that kend him.Alas ! poor Pate ! nae mair will yeTell tales again wi’ mirth and glee;Lang will the country lasses weary, '■*To see that face was ay sae cheery,A face, weel kent o’er Britain’s Isle,A face ay painted with a smile.O wha will now fill up thy place,id fill it with so good a grace ;icre's only ane that i do ken,nang the mor'. l sons o’ men,1* that is Jackey j ance thy friend,le fittest fellow e’er I kend ;ay customers he knew right well,v can a canty story tell,i winter nights, while round the ingle,ie wheels an’ reels an’ plates do jingle,let him now tak’ up the trade,j V then I'm sure his fortune’s made.24EPITAPH.RICH r underneath these humble stores.Lie honest Peter Duthie’s banes.Who it appears,Inhabited this world of ours.Aided by the celestial powers.Full ninety years,' /But like the rest of human kind, *To earth he was at last consign’d.And here he lies; 1Such is the lot of mortals all,Since ever man at first did fall.None liv’d but dieSo Reader learn thy awful fate,And know thy mortal, true estate.To sorrows born]No man but once must feel the smart.Of Death’s sure aiming fatal dart,Nor from it turn.'Let wisdom then be your true guide.And ne’er be swell’d by earthly pride,For here at rest,Oi some such place both you and I,WiJ be condemn’d a while to lie.By earth still preFINIS.