THEVillage Curate,ANIINTERESTING TALE ;' / v>TO WHICH IS ADDED,The COUNTRY CLERGYMAN, A Poem.EDINBURGH:Printed for the Booksellers in Town arjd CountryAL US/TT'jn.COFSCOTUM^).THUVILLAGE CURATET-u-'. \ i!A TALE.“ The good, for Virtues’ sake, abhor to sin.”CttEEClI.. IAt an age when the human mind is most sus* 'tibie of, and too often imbibes, a passion for *uptuous pleasure ; ere jet experience the sage |cepts had impressed, Lord Belfont inhcrite 1splendid fortune. His levees tvere croudea vthe most fashionable part of the world; the vof flattery incessantly sang his praise, and best ■ed on him every virtue that could ennoble irHis rank in life, and extensive fortune, introdi 1him into the first families in England; and optures of marriage were made to him by the partiand guardians of the greatest beauties of the abut Belfont, though not insensible to the cha iof beauty, was not yet become the vassal of tlpower.The attention which he invariably receiifrom tbe whole circle of his acquaintance, it milreasonably be supposed, was very acceptable toinexperienced Belfont: but, notwithstandingxtreme youth, and ignorance of men and mamrhe susjtectcd the sincerity of these encomiums wl:flattery bestowed on him ; and pliant voice of aiution had made little impression on his mind-3| At once to prove the integrity of his professedfriends, he carefully spread a report that, by oneimprudent step, he had been precipitated fromprosperity’s flowery mount into the barren valejpf poverty. Swift as wild-fire ran the evil tale;■and those very doors which, as it were by magic(opened at the approach of the rich and happy Bel-|font, were now barred against the ruined spend¬thrift.To give his distress an air of certainty, he madeseveral applications for assistance to his once vow-i;ed eternal friends, which were invariably treated((with a mortifying contempt. To the fair rivals of' his affections he addressed his tale of sorrow; here,j too, neglected was his fate.—Belfont, dispossessedJ of the means to gratify their fondness for dress,amusement, and pleasure, was an object no longerH worthy of their regard. Reflecting on these ev-| ents, he exclaimed—“ How wretched are theH children of Fortune ! The poor man in his hourI of distress finds a friend ; but the rich, when hejit ceases to be so, is disregarded by those whom hisI former bounty fed; and who have not charity e-4 nough to give to his misfortunes even the costlessi sigh of pity !”In the midst of his contemplations, a servant| entered the room, and announced the arrival ofLord Bremere; who, returning from a countryexcursion, had just heard of his friend’s misfortune,I and hastened to relieve his necessities.—As he ap-| preached, Belfont, rising from his chair, ran tomeet him. “ It is some consolation,” said he,“ for the disappointments I have experienced, to1 find the man whom I most valued not unworthy4✓the esteem I bore him.’’ This, continued h<“ more than rccompences the ingratit ide of thosmercenary Avretches, who cannot recollect the feslures of their friend when shaded by the veil caffected distress ”The conclusion of Belfont’s address forcibl;struck Lord Bremere, urho repeated the word‘ affected distress !'—Adding, with much surprise—Are, then, your misfortunes bred by the tattlof the town.”“ No, my lord,” returned Belfont; “ not fromthose contemptible beings, who eagerly busy themselves with every body’s affairs, w hile they neglectheir own, and who are only industrious in thepropagation of scandal; but from myself arose thetale of my distress. I invented it, merely tcprove the sincerity of those protestations of eter¬nal friendship, which every day the siren, Flattery,whispered in my ear; and which, to speak thetruth, were become most intolerably disgusting.Among my female friends,” continued he, “ a lady,on whom I looked with partial eyes, and who, infact, had made some faint impressions on my heart,had the cruelty to smile at my distress: but I thankher for her contempt; it has broken asunder thosechains her beauty had forged to hold my heart inbondage.”“ And what use does your lordship mean tomake of this discovery ?” inquired Bremere.“ My resolutions, Charles,” returned Belfont,“ and your ideas, I will venture to say, are of anopposite nature. You, perhaps, imagine that Ishall return to the fashionable world, refute thejopinion>it entertains of my distress, and reproach,it for its ingratitude !”\\ “ What else can you purpose?” asked Bremere.“ Convinced </f your lordsliip’s integrity',” re¬plied Belfont, “ I shall not hesitate to repose inyour breast the secret of my resolves. The sud¬den death of my uncle,” continued he, “ has givenitne an ample fortune; the enjoyment of which, in|he vulgar opinion of mankind, ensures the con-itant possession of happiness. Alas ! how mistakents such a notion ! It is true, my every wish is gra¬tified but one. You smile, Charles, and alreadyAnticipate that yet unaccomplished wish—Yes !liiny friend, the society of a virtuous female,ilivhose bosom is awake to the soft touches of hu¬manity, and who will not, to the offspring of distress,refuse the tributary sigh of pity, nor from the nee-fly sufferer withhold, the sacred boon of charity, isjivhat 1 am now in search of. In the higher circleshf life,” added he, “ my pursuit has proved abor¬tive; and, assuming the appearance of the rusticCottager, I mean to seek it in humbler scenes !”It was in vain that Lord Bremere endeavouredj:o persuade his friend from Ins purpose. BtlfontRemained inflexible to all his entreaties, and, hav¬ing drawn from his friend all assurance of inviol¬able secrecy, they parted : Bremere, to the hauntspf giddy passion ; Beifont, to prepare for ins visitj.o those of rural felicityAfter a short repast, Belfont, leaving directionswith his steward for tlie management of the fami¬ly in his absence, retired to rest; and, at an early{hour, while the sons of riot and dissipation werereturning from their nocturnal revels, lie left his6 - !5;.'lend id mansion, and in the humble garb of |peasant, with a tejv necessaries tied up in a hanrikerchief, began his retreat from the metropoliIlis name and title were only known in Grosvenoisquare: at present he contented himself with tlless dignified appellation of George Trueman; anall traces of Lord BeJfont were for a time vanishe.Having continued his walk for near three hourhe found himself fatigued; when an inn, oppotunefy presenting itself to view, afforded him aopportunity of resting his weary limbs, and satitying the cravings of nature, which exercise harendered more than commodfy acute. The o’sequious host soon furnished him with an excelent breakfast, which having finished, he mountethe Norwich stage, that had arrived during his npast, and, at the close of the day, found himselfthat city,Meanwhile, Bremere, mixing with the circle •Bel foul’s late acquaintance, heard with silent indi:nation the illiberal and unjust reflections that weicast on the supposed misconduct of his friend.The impertinent inquiries with which his eawere assailed, from all who knew him in the habiof friendship with Beifont, were almost too mucfor his temper to hear with composure; and 1was often on the point of violating the promise •secrecy his friend had extorted from him, to viidicate his character from the aspersions of slaider.Seated, one evening, in a box at Drury-lartheatre, he was seen by Lady Caroline Blandis!f rom the opposite side of the house ; who, sa.ceremony, immediately came round to him. “ S> lord,” said she, entering the box, <c what ir{come of your friend Relfont ? Have you seen'!tn lately ? How does he bear his misfortunes ?(am really sorrow for the unfortunate youth ?”Mv friend,” replied Bremere, “ is infinitelydiged to your ladyship for the concern you take?' his distress.”jj“ Why, you know, my lord,” returned Lady'jnroline, “ one can’t help being concerned for the{stresses of those who were of one’s acquaintance,iprofess,’’ continued she, “ the news of his ruinMonished me prodigously; and I assure you, Ijit myself extremely hurt at it ; for his lordship;;ld paid me much attention, and I began to thinkI had made a conquest. It is, hWever,” addedte, “ very fortunate that the affair ended as it|id; for you know, it would have been a shockingiing to have involved one’s self in such difficulties.”| “ True, madam,’’ replied Bremere ; who, by heridyship’s discourse, found she was the person toI’hom Belfont alluded, as having attracted histerticular notice; “ but, after all, whatever dimi-lution the fortune of Lord Belfont has received,[e assured, it is still sufficient to support the wo-han whom he shall honour with his hand, in aiiile of elegance that might sooth the most exten-Iive vanity!” And, w'ithout waiting her ladyship’seply, bowed, and u ished her good night, disgust-d with the affected concern she expressed for hisriend’s imaginary distress, which was but ill cal-i ulated to conceal the spirit of malevolence thatankled in her bosom.Lady Caroline concluded, what he had said wasynly to shelter his friend from the censure of theworld, and to encourage the opinion that his affswere not so desperate as they had been representWith these ideas, she joined her company ; aBelfont and his misfortunes escaped her memorAnd now, gentle reader, let us attend the steof Beifont; whom, hereafter, we shall distinguby that of Trueman. Having spent a few drat Norwich, he left that city, and continuedexcursion, till he found himself, for the first tin:in the midst of his tenantry.Totally unknown to his tenants and his stewahe had an opportunity of informing himself of Ioppression which the former bore, and the abu?which the latter committed. It was near sun-s|when he arrived at a pleasant village on the horde)of the sea, which contained, what is there callelan inn. Having deposited his bundle in the roowhere he was to sleep, he repaired to the kitcheand, seating himself among the rustics assembleover their evening gotch of nog*, joined in thediscourse.The conversation chiefly turned on the transations of the village ; and, among a variety of anedotes detailed of the inhabitants, the recent mifortunes of their worthy curate most attracted tinotice of Trueman. The incident dwelt strongon his mind; and he determind to make hiuisdacquainted with the narrative of a man of whohis parishioners spoke in such high terms of apprbation. He invited the landlord to partake ot hbeverage; who, being a communicative sort* The earthen jugs, out of which the people in Norfolk dmare called gotches f and their strong baer is known by the naiI 9jberson, and one who had a considerable share ofliumanity interwoven in his composition, readily-complied with Trueman’s request, to relate theItnisfortunes of the worthy pastor.1 “ I will tell you, sir,” said he, “ the story of Par¬son Benley. You must know, sir, that he is theSurate of our parish. The living, which is thegift of my Lord Belfont, belongs to a clergyman,who lives in the west; and, though it brings himiIn a good three hundred pounds a-year, he gives hiscurate only forty pounds out of it. So that, youSee, the master gets two hundred and sixty poundsijfor doing nothing, as one may say, while the ser¬vant, who does every thing, is obliged to be con¬tended with scarcely a seventh part of that sum :and though the good woman, his wife, broughtjiim a large family, he could never get any increasel)f salary. This made him determine on taking•li farm ; which, by the death of one of his neigh¬bours, became vacant. But I don’t know bowt was, though he worked as hard as any day-la-?ourer in the parish, and his wife was as industri-his as a bee, they couldn’t, asfthe saying is, bringboth ends together : and, to make short of thenatter, my lord’s steward seized on his stock,-vlrich not being sufficient to pay all arrears, theaard-hearted rascal clapt him into the county»aol.”“ And his family,” asked Trueman, “ what arebecome of them ?”“ His wife and four children,” returned theandlord,” three fine boys from ten to thirteenI ears old, and a daughter grown up, are in a cot-iage hard by, that belongs to me. The overseerof the parish, who is a crabbed sort of a feilowUand a friend of the steward, was for sending thei ito the workhouse. But, ‘ No,’ says I ; ‘ hoineighbour Bruin ! while my roof can give thershelter, and I can provide them with a meal teke out the earnings of their own industry—Amyou must know, sir,’ said he, with a significannod, c I am pretty warm—they shall never e;idure the wants and hardships of a prison ! Fowhat,’ said I, ‘ is your workhouse but a dungeonwhere the poor eat little, and labour hard?’—“ Butsir,” continued the landlord, “ not only I, but thwhole village, was against their going there; anthe inhabitants all cheerfully spare a little towardthe family’s support: nay, even the labourincottager, out of his hard earnings, throws in himite !”“ And what,” inquired Trueman, “ is the £mount of the sum for which the unfortunate mais now confined r”“ The whole debt,” replied the landlord, “am told, is about three hundred pounds: asmby much too large for the inhabitants of our paiish to raise without injuring themselves; or, d«pend upon it, he would soon be snatched from thgripe of the law'.”% Every particular which related to this worth -man, Trueman inquired with an earnestness the!:displayed the philanthropic sentiments of his mindand intimated, not merely a wish, but a fixed d»itermination, to rescue the indigent sufferer froi-the horrors of a prison, and restore him to his diconsolate family. Impressed with this generoilisentiment he retired to bed, meditating on tlmeans bv which he might effect his laudable d11signs, so as to give the least offence possible tothe delicacy of suffering virtue, and conceal thehand that loosed the chains of bondage, and gaveonce more to the drooping captive the possession,of liberty.I After proposing to himself many plans, he atlength determined to walk the next day to a posttown, about three miles off, and enclose notes toJthe amount of Mr Henley’s debt, in a letter tothat gentleman. 'This appeared to him the best(method he could devise, as it would leave no tracesthat might lead to a discovery from whom themerited bounty came. Thus resolved, he yieldedito the soft embraces of sleep; and, in the inorn-iiing, rose to execute his benevolent purpose.I In his return, he saw a female and a little boy.JThe youth carried a basket, which seemed tooiheavy for his feeble strength to support. The fe-imale had in each hand a jug; and, having'out-Jwalked her companion, had seated herself on aIs tile to wait his coming up. Trueman accosted■the youth, and offered to assist him in carryinghis load ; a proposal which the youngster readily: accepted, telling him, at the same time, that hehad been to a neighbouring farmer for cheese andbutter; and that his sister had got two jugs ofmilk for his brothers’ breakfasts.—“ And what isyour name ?” said Trueman.—“ Henley, sir; andwre live in yonder cottage,” pointmg to a smallij house.“ Charlotte,’’ said the youth, “ here is a gen¬tleman has kindly carried my basket for me ; and,. as you complain the jugs are too heavy for you,I dare say he will help you too.”i “ That I will, and esteem myself obliged so to12do,1" said Trueman, placing the basket on th|jground, and bowing to Miss Benley. “ You ar avery kind, sir,” said Charlotte ; “ but I am ashamfled that Henry should have given you so mucltrouble : lie is an idle boy, or he would not havthus intruded on your politeness.”“ Call it not intrusion ; the young gentlemaasked n«t my assistance, and my service is voluntary ”The blushing Charlotte accepted the assistancof the gallant stranger. Trueman viewed, witla joy bordering on rapture, the personal aecomplishments of his fair companion. “ And oh !said he, “should she wear a pure mind, and unstained as is her lovely form, she were a treasure wort!the proudest monarch’s love !”The lovely maid answered with indifference every question of the enamoured youth. Tingloomy prospect of futurity had robbed Miss Benley of that vivacity, which, in her happier daysshe wras wont to possessHarry Benley having informed his mother othe stranger’s civility, the good woman walked tcthe wicket-gate, that formed an entrance to thigarden, to welcome her daughter’s return ; andthanking Trueman for his politeness, invited hinrto partake of their morning’s refreshment.“ I am sorry,” said the venerable matron, “ thatmy mean®, and my inclination to make you wel-Corne. are not in -unison with each other, but thatwhfch ( have to give, I give freely.—There wasa time”—I have heard of your misfortunes, madam,’interrupted Trueman ; and I sincerely sympathizein your sufferings. But do not yield to despair.The hand which inflicts distress can also bestowhappiness; and, though the pitiless storm ofstern adversity to-day beats hard and heavy onyour defenceless roof, to-morrow prosperity’s cheer¬ful sun may raise your sinking hopes, and repairthe ravages of the ruthless blast.”Mrs Benley and her daughter could not avoidmaking their observations on the strangeness ofthe visit; while he congratulated himself on the-completion of his wish for an introduction to thisamiable family.It was on a market day that Farmer Welfordwaited on the good old man. He found him in asmall room, pursuing his pious meditations. Thesight of any of his parishioners was a cordial tothe drooping spirits of Mr Benley. His griefs,though not forgotten, were suppressed while con¬versing with his friends; but, at the moment ofseparation, they returned with increased poignancy,and it required the utmost effort of mind to sup¬port the painful—“ Adieu !”“ Eternal God !” exclaimed the weeping father,“ must I no more enjoy the sweets of liberty !How changed the scene ! Here, when night hersable mantle o’er the face of heaven begins tospread, nothing is heard but the dismal rattling ofchains ; doors of massy iron, grating on their hin¬ges, appal the timid soul; while horrid oaths, anddreadful imprecations, wound the listening ear.O Welford ! my soul sickens at the scene ; andphilosophy scarce can shield my mind from thehorrors of despair !”At this moment the gaoler entered the roomwith a letter for Mr Benley—■“ Tiie hand is tin-known to me,” said he. “ It has a goodly out- |side,” said the gaoler; “ pray Heaven it prove not jlike the world, fair without, and foul within.’’“ Why, truly, friend,” returned Mr Benley,l< your satire upon the manners of mankind is notunreasonable. It is, I fear, the maxim of manyof the present age, to conceal the depravity of theheart beneath the specious appearance of honesty.This, however,” continued he, breaking the seal,“ I think, bodes no harm; I will therefore in¬form myself of its contents.”“ It is well,” said he : “ goodness is still extant;and innocence enjoys the guardian care of Provi¬dence. The contents of this letter will best ex¬plain my meaning—“ To the Reverend John Benley, at the Castle oj\Norwich.“ Reverend Sir,—The enclosed notes, which“ 1 find, on inquiry, will cover the whole of your“ debts, wait acceptance. They are the gift of one“ on whom fortune has bestowed more than he ,“ can claim on the score of desert; and who anxi-“ ously hopes, while it restores to you those most<c enviable blessings, liberty and domestic happi- :“ ness, be has left no clue by which a discovery o“ the donor may be effected.”Here the gaoler broke into a swearing fit of joy;the farmer could only express his pleasure with hislooks, while the grateful pastor threw himself orhis knees, and poured forth the grateful transportof his soul to the Giver of all Goodness.15j| While the bounty of the generous TruemanI was thus employed in releasing the worthy CurateI from the horrors of a prison, he himself was noI less assiduous in soothing,-by every act of benevo-| lence and hospitality, the anxiety of the family atJ home.With the assistance of his landlord, he was be-1 come acquainted with every transaction that hadoccurred in the village. In one of his eveningwalks, he was roused from his meditations by thesudden exclamations of a female voice ; arid, rais¬ing Ins eyes, beheld the fair object of his affectionsendeavouring to avoid the opportunities of a gen-i tleman who was pursuing her.“ Stay, lovely Charlotte !” said the stranger,fl “ Why do you fly me thus ?”Why, sir, are you so importunate ?”“ Because I wish to remove the cloud of sorrowthat hangs on your brow. In short, because Ilove you. Who could behold beauty such as your’s,and live a stranger to affection! ”“ Affection ! view your recent conduct to my: father; then say if affection bore a leading feature.1 there ?“ On honourable terms I sought your hand,which you in scorn refused. Had your father thenlaid on you his commands, and forced you to bemine, he had escaped my resentment.”“ My choice was free, sir ; and, perhaps it wasmy nature’s fault, I could not love you. But ex-• cuse my abruptness, should we be seen thus dis-■ coursing, the discovery would not add to my re-1 potation.’’“ This contempt, child, is very pretty ! but it16shall not divert me from tasting the ripe beautiesof those matchless charms.” Then rudely snatch- i[ing the struggling beauty to his loathed embrace,impressed on her lovely lips the guilty purpose ofhis passion. At that instant, rage and indignationfired the soul of Trueman; who. darting throughthe hedge, seized the rude ravisher by the throat,and hurled him to the ground “ Detested mon¬ster ! I know thee well! Thou art the faithlesssteward of the absused Belfont. Already has thyfame reached thy master’s ears : nor think, vileingrate, that he will suffer thy villanies to escape iwith impunity.” Then, taking the almost faint- !ing Charlotte by the hand, he hastened from this nfallen Lucifer.The spirits of Charlotte hardly supported herfrom the presence of her base assailant, before shesunk lifeless into the arms of her deliverer ; who,urged by fear, placed her on a bank, and ran torwater to a neighbouring rivulet, and besprinkledher features with the cooling drops. Soon she un- eclosed her lovely eyes, and recovered.“ You tremble still, my Charlotte, and, by yourdisordered looks, seem to doubt your safety ?”“ O no ! where Trueman is, suspicion has nodwelling.”Lnchanting sweetness ! Oh ! my lovely Char¬lotte, never till this hour of danger did I knowhow dear an interest in my heart you held. Wouldmy sweet girl but kindly listen to my artless tale,—*would she but give my ardent passion one approv¬ing smile—”“ Alas!” interrupted Charlotte, “I have nosmiles to give. On any other subject, I will hearyou, but, till again my father breathes the air offreedom, till from the chains of bondage he is freed,I have foresworn all joy.'1“ Till that blest period,” said Trueman, “ whenfortune shall cease to prosecute thy venerable sire,and give the captive to his weeping friends, mypassion in concealment’s painful bosom shall dwellimmured, if then thou wilt give my artless taleattention ! This only do I ask : grant me but this;and hope shall nurture my love, anti lull to resteach intrusive care.”“ Then, by my hopes of bliss hereafter,” saidthe maid, “ I vow, when that happy hour arrives,I will not chide thy fondness. But tell me, whatmeans this sudden joy that through the villagereigns ? How sweetly sound the merry bells; whiteeyery breeze from yon shouting throng wafts thethe breath of pleasure.”And see,” said Trueman, “ where, to my Char¬lotte’s cottage, they bend their steps ! It is, me-thinks, no vulgar cause that swells this loud ex¬claim !—But see ! your brother comes, the har¬binger of happiness !”“ Oh, Charlotte !” said Harry, “ our dear fatheris come home again. Farmer VVelford broughtthe news that he was on t>.e road, and the wholevillage went to meet him. They took the horsesfrom the chaise, arid dragged him to our cottage.My mother cries for joy, and sent me to seek afteryou. Make haste, my father longs to see you.—And do you, Mr Trueman, come too; my motherhas told nim what a kind friend you have been ;I will run back, and say you are coming.”“ Now, my Charlotte,” said Trueman, “ indulgei18this fiood of joy, nor check the soft emotions ofthe soul. These tears become thee ; which, likethe fleeting shower that bathes the summer’s day,give fresh lustre to the charms of nature.”£e Is that which I have heard derived from truth ;or is it but the dream of fancy ? My father releas¬ed from prison ! By whom ?”Why,” said Trueman, “ should you questionwhence the gracious bounty came ? It is sufficientthat he is returned. Think the measure of hisbliss is incomplete, till in his paternal embrace hefolds thy lovely form. Hasten, then, to increaseand share his merited happiness.” Then, foldingher arm in his, he hurried towards her dwelling.Mr Benley was seated at the door of the cot¬tage, surrounded by many of his parishioners, wTenCharlotte rushed into her father’s arms, exclaim¬ing—“ My dear, dear father !” The enrapturedparent mingled the tears of fond affection withthose of filial gratitude; and every countenancebeamed with smiles of joy. Nor was the welcomeof the worthy Trueman wanting in cordiality ; but,when the lovely Charlotte related her rescue fromthe hated Sandford, the murmur of applause fellfrom every tongue, while the grateful father strain¬ed the gallant stranger to his heart by the endear¬ing name of son.The return of the worthy pastor was celebratedby the inhabitants Of the parish as a sort of jubilee.Every one strove to excel his neighbour in acts of]courtesy. Stores of viands were conveyed fromall parts of the village ; and while, by the pale lightof the moon, sprightly youth led up the merrydance, cheerful age sat and quaffed the nut-brownm-I 19| ale, talked over the feats of former days, and minhought grew young again.Every transaction that had occurred since Lordi Belfont’s arrival in the village, he had transmittedj to his friend Bremere ; and, on confirmation of1 the oppression which his steward had exercised,| enclosed the discharge of that unfeeling wretch ;with an order to deliver his accounts to Mr Ben-i ley, whom he appointed his successor. A letter,I announcing to this gentleman hir. appointment,] also accompanied the packet; which Biemere dulyI forwarded from London, in the manner his friendI had directed. By this time Bremere had refutedI the opinion which had been entertained of the de-| rangement of his lordship’s finances. The wholei’ was declared to be a feint.The sensations of Sandtord, on reading his lord-i:j ship’s letter, were such as are familiar only to the| guilty. The perturbation of his mind brought onij a violent fever, which soon terminated his miser-i able existence.Ear different were the feelings of Mr Benley.—^ “ How variegated is the life of man ! His mornI of infancy rises immersed in clouds, and the lower¬ing tempest carries ruin in its aspect Anon, thefriendly breeze of fortune disperses the threaten-1 ing storm ; prosperity’s golden sun sheds forth itscheering rays, enervates the chill blasts of his blackJ adversity, anddeckstheeveningof his days in smiles1 of joy.” And oft the ministers of fate reverseI the pleaing scene!” said Trueman. “You are* come very opportunely to share the pleasurewhich our newly-acquired fortune, gives,” re-j turned the curate. And, after having informedTruerftan of the contents of the letter, toldf!him he had discovered the bounteous hand thatgave him liberty.“ I have compared this letter of my Lord Bel-font with the one I received when under confine- ’ment, and I find the characters of each exactlvcorresponding. To his lordship I attribute thebenevolent act. To-morrow, we purpose leavingthis humble dwelling, and once more taking pos-*session of our fprmer mansion; w here, I hope, weshall enjoy the pleasure of your company.1’“ You do me infinite honour, sir; and I willstudy to deserve your favour. But where is MissBenley, sir ? I came purposely to inquire how shefinds herself, after her last night's merriment.”“ I believe you will find her in the garden.She and her mother will keep you company foran hour or two, while I visit my friends in the vil¬lage.”Trueman walked to the bottom of the garden,,apd found his lovely Charlotte seated on a bovverof osiers, which she herself had reared. She hada letter in her hand, which, as she perused, thetears of anguish fell from her sorrowing eyes.Trueman’s approach roused the maid ; she startedfrom her seat, hurried the letter into her pocket,,and darted an angry look at the youth.“ Why, my lovely Charlotte ! do you thus:angrily fix on me those streaming eyes ?”“ Answer me faithfully,” said she ; “ art thouwhat thou seemest P or, beneath that mean attire,but ill according with t hy polished phrase and man¬ner, dost thou not hide—Ha! my fears are true!The blush of guilt has crimsoned o’er thy face ?nind that confused air, that sudden start, proclaimthee false!”| “ Tell me,” said Trueman, recovering himself,!! the grounds on which you have raised this unkind“suspicion of my honour.”f “ This will inform you, sir; a friend of MissiBenley advises her to be on her guard Truemanis not what he seems; but, beneath the appearancet)f rustic honesty, harbours designs destructive ofher peace and honour.“ Now, sir, what can you plead to this charge ?”“ Miss Benley, that I love you, I think, is stillIbeyond dispute. That you approved my passion,nay, owned a mutual flame, is equally on the sideIrf truth. To the charge here preferred against.ne, that I am not what I seem, I plead guilty ;nut to the rest, with all my soul, I pronounce itlit base falsehood.”“ Less warmth, sir, will better serve the cause>f truth.”i “ Less warmth, madam, would confirm me theiljuilty wretch your hard thoughts, and this vileijcroll, have made me. But, tell me, if I can repel,i»y truth indubitable, this unjust arraignment ofny honour, what reward I may expect?”1 “ Oh ! clear but thyself of these gross suspi-ttions ; appear but the man my fond wishes haveformed thee, and I would reject the crowned mo-I arch’s hand to share thy honest love !”| “ Then fear not, and know that I am the hap-vy Belfont.”1 “ Lord Belfont!”—“ Yes, the rich, the happyjSelfont, lives the vassal of your power. But tellpe, from what envious hand didst thou receiveids vile defamer of my truth ?”22'“ Last night, when dancing on the green, a leter fell from your pocket. I took it up unobserveand perused its contents: from which I learned thyou were in disguise.1’<c And the rest your fears supplied ?!’—“ Evso.”“ Then, truly, you had reason for suspicion.But come, let us disclose our mutual passionyour parents. Their approbation gained, we thwill name the happy day.”“ May I entreat a moment’s conversation, sir“ Aye, my good sir, an hour’s, replied Mr BeIe>r-“ Thus it is, sir. Your daughter has beautworth, and innocence. I sought, I gained her fo:regard; and it is now our mutual wish tochange our holy vows, and sign a contract of etenal love.”“ How say you, Charlotte? In this, does PTrueman speak the wishes of your heart ?”“ He has my free consent, sir, to what he n«proposes.”“ The request is somewhat sudden. It is triI have found you worthy, and your merit deserthe treasure which it seeks: but a tender regsfor the happiness of my child forbids me to givtoo precipate answer; and some little inquirynecessary to—”“ True, it is a matter that requires the mserious consideration; and the reluctance whyou feel, gives additional lustre to your charactAn accident has revealed me to the fair objectmy wishes. I threw aside disguise, and confesmyself the happy Belfont.”%‘‘ Then take her, and may she prove deservingof your love.-"The lovely maid smiled consent; and Mr Ben-ley hastened to the village, where the joyful tid¬ings soon spread. The tenants flew with cheerfulhaste to pay their duty to their illustrious land¬lord, and none refused the invitation of his lordship.The Country Clergyman.Near yonder copse, where once the garden smil’d,And, still, where many a garden flower grows wild,There, where a few torn shrubs the place disclose,The village preacher’s modest mansion rose.A man he was to all the country dear.And passing rich—with forty pounds a-year.Kemote from towns, he ran his godly race;Nor e’er had changed, nor wish’d to change his place.Unpractis’d he, to fawn or seek for power,By doctrines fashion’d to the varying hour:Far other aims his heart had learn’d to prize,More skill’d to raise the wretched than to rise.His house was known to all the vagrant train :He chid their yvand’rings, but reliev’d their pain.The long'-remcmber’d beggar was his guest.Whose beard descending swept his aged breast :The ruin’d spendthrift, now no longer proud,Claim’d kindred there, and had his claims allow’d;The broken soldier, kindly bid to stay,^ Sat by his fire, and talk’ll the night away ;''•Wept o’er his wounds, or tales of sorrow done.Shoulder’d hiscrutch,andshew'dIiowfieldswerewon.24Pleas’d with his guests, thegood man learn’dto glow,And quite forgot their vices in their wo;Careless their merits or theft faults to scan,Mis pity gave, ere charity began.Thus to relieve the wretched, was his pride;And ev’n his failings lean’d to virtue’s side :But, in his duty, prompt at ev’ry call.He watch’d and wept, he pray’d and felt for all.And, as a bird each fond endearment triesTo tempt its new-fledg'd offspring to the skies.He tried each art, reprov’d each dull delay,Allur’d to brighter worlds, and led the way.Beside the bed, where parting life was laid.And sorrow, guilt, and pain, by turns dismay’d,The reverend champion stood At his control,Tiespair and anguish fled the struggling soul :Comfort came down the trembling wretch to raise;And his last falt’ring accents whispered praise.At church, with meek and unaffected grace,/ His looks adorn d the venerable place ;Truth from his lips prevail’d with double sway,And fools, who came to scoff, remain’d to pray.The service past, around the pious man.With ready zeal, each honest rustic ran :Ev’n children follow'd with endearing wile,And pluck’d his gown, to sharethe good man's smile.His ready smile a parent’s warmth express’d;Their welfare pleas’d him, and their cares distress’d;To them his heart, his love, his griefs, were giv’n ;But all his serious thoughts had rest in heav’n ;—As some tall cliff that lifts its awful form,Swells from the vale, and mid-way leaves the storm,Thoughrounditsbreasttheroliingclouds arespread.Eternal sunshine settles on its head.FINIS.