St. Andrew’s Day,A Favorite Mafohlc Song.^ Stirling Fewer,Gompofed on the Dsath of CoL GarqexeR;,1715-The Ayrfhire Laddie,AKDThe Lovers’ Difpiite*> EalZZr&t' Fchttziui &■-/■\jrCl ?4A*hrtA t^ 13t. ANDREW’S. DAT.■i'uT, '’a!, to tne flay tlut rufp’cious Tcturns, • 1f’U’r country’s bicak re.’io-.s lo C'.err ! ^xiip -va-ure the winter’s wild ravages moarncj*et joy flied its influei ct I'trc :v'ar hence be tne frowns and the trrvmurs cfearrf, •1:! each breaft ea ch the patriot flaste!Wija: foti! but aipires in otir «a»tures to fliare,When Scotia and Ftceooinh thetlienie,When Scotia as.iTFiccdoniV, fire.Tho- e. ’d arc otir I)i!ls. and tin’ barren our piain*^our climate thn rude ard fsvc:'eYet health sofy health firings the nerves of our f wains,!and fmiics on the checks cf our fair,And Freedom, b:efi Freedom, that takes effour loacjfr ri regions rtiinrc fertile exil’d,’Mid our w ods and pu! w Iris •■ad of old bar abode,and cur crime, of it: rigours beguil’d. Ana. &c.in hoftije array when R nte's legions appear’d,her voice founded 1'ng.o’er t m heath ;On cur hill, her proud ftandsrd Otuiting fhe rear’d,an i her motto was ■ Goroic0..oi Death!”Our ericcftors. heard, and re-cclmed th.s founds,t; fo cm truer or die be Cur doom !”Unm iv d as tueir mountains,Ttwa* theirs to fet botm-ds;ts'.U’.C f>w'r asd agupitiq.t of Jijijic., fo, fife.*.%Ak 3 )Their.laurch bequeath’d from the lire to the fou,thro' ages unfading have Lib'tii d ,Tire rays of their glory uridoixfeJ have /hone,and their country’s bleak hhores iliam'd-What heroes unftunrSxr d have eicuicd the fce,it3well Europe’s proud annals ca.ti ttli !For Freeuniij, fi'^ardltfs of danger and pain,how they fought, how they bled, host they jVUiHow tiiiy fshgiit, Sii.* : i »"»> , - - i ' 1 ‘ ' ' 'And now that the •t-srapeft tf war o’er the land, ,no more fort lids it* ki dllinjT ala1 ms,In the f Ir cares of .pcr.ce ict us-join rrdnd-in hatt4fand-in arts be as great as in arnir.Supported by FreebopS niay Commerce cncrcafe^a d our /hues her rte i tr'eaTures•'incite tMay Science, extending tire bklHogs or P.ace,drlTufe tlir bngijt btanrs ei'hcr light.Dfluio the briJit beams,- ; ' ‘ I .. . o ie . ; ' • • ’ .5’.; •And lo' what a wreath of unfading ten wafur St \ndicw trie Virtues entwkrcdhole virtues, proufied by him tlrtu have grown,round his head <hed.;istg lullre divine,V O’er the pule cheek of poverty long be it oursagain to /bed health’s rofy bl om;And toe eye that the torrent of nufery pem-s,witli joy and with hope to ulume. Wnh,dMor.g nations tire firft, ar in Freeckm and worth,may Caledon fiilr be proclaim’d :Kcr daughters as brighs as the mom of the Nortg,and her fort; as her forefathers fam’d.(4)Let Cne tools of a fa<£iion, the mlnihns of pow’r,court the finiles of ambition airtl wcai-^h; ,Her favours <iifltves partial Fortune may IhowV,be ours independence and Health. Be ours. Sic,Lfor let the cold wifh bv a Bntcn be breath’d,which from fclfifh afLcli in has birth ;Thof« bleffings to us bv our fathers bequeath’d,may they cheer sll the nations on earth.Itlay Fame’s loudeft Trump to each region proclaim*that the reign of ihe OeJpot (hall ceafe ;And mankind (hall welcome, with joyful acclaim,the a:ra of Freedom and peace I The aera, &ciSTIRLING TOWER.Ccnpofed on the Death rf Colokcl Gardeker, r 74-5*’Twas at the foleirtn midnight hour,before the fi f. cock’s crowing.That weftlin winds (hook Stirling ToweV,with hollow tnurmtt'rs bl wing ;When Fanny fair, ell woe-begore,fad on her bed was lying,Xol thro’ ti e mournful tower (he heardthe boding fcreech-owl crying.O difmal night! (he faid. and wept;O niglit ptefaging borrow !6 difmal night! (he faid, and wept;but more I dread to-morrow «Fct bow tHe bloody hour draws mg,each hod to batfcl^ binding ; _•At morn Qifcll fons tlicir fathtrs flaywith deadly hate contending.Eren now, in viGon? of the mg. %1 few fell.death wide fweenir.g;And ail the matrons of the land,and all the virgins, weeping-And now (he l eard the mfoiy 6^—*harfh on their hinges -nming .And now thro’ all the caftle heardthe woeful voice of mourning .Agha'd ibe ftarted front her Itcd,ti e fa al tidings dreading 1 .O fpeak! fhe cried, my father's flai[ fee, l fee I dm bleeding!A pale carpi*, on the fuller. fhore;at morn fair maid, I left him .Even at the threfliold of his gatethe foe, of life bereft him 1Bold in the battle s front he fell,with many a wound deformed.A braver kn-ght. or better man,this fair ifle ne er adorned.While thus he fpoke, the grief-luia deadly fwpon.invadtd 1Loft was the luftre of her eyes,and ail her b^uty faded.TH1> AYRSHIRE LA£>DIE.<My Jamie is a bonnie }ad,he oftcTi eomes a*c- O;’The fight of him ave malts me glad,but. Oil. when we weie fporting. OJMy lobptng bieafi to l.is t’e prefi’d,he row’d me in hi- plaidv. O;He held me tl'ere till ’ 'ccmfciss’dI dearly lov’d th.e ladcie. O.lie favt, 1 kiil'd !'im with my eea,his tale h ever readvoHe f.v. ar? by all ri.e fiars abopn^that t\eli ftia'.l be bis taciy, O.Every 'afi is thrang engag’d -wl> fome weel-fanr d oallan, O; ,My iidg'ihfcur Jcfirap.d Jean are pledg’dto marry Rab and Ahan, O.I he Engl lb girl ate find of John>the ‘risli maids for Paddy, O;Jamie, give me, or give me none.My 5>onny Ayrfiiire laddie, tXQnce I crofs’d the raging f:a,from Leith o’er to Kirkcaldy O;Bet ne’er a lad yet catcli’d my ee,like my dear Ayrshire laddie. O.At gleamin' he went down yefireeiijto my matn and daddy, O ;And their confent was freely gi’en,thojr knew ary lad was I'.tr.dy, O.'(7)Tncrc may be m-my a riclicr pair,arifi mony mae rr.orc ^audr. O ^Of UfT:s itir has fyi. a Oiare,as Ntil. and ,ier Ayrfhuc !adJie, 0*THE LOVERS’ DISPUTE.A fair di-'fpute, of late, there war*,between a \oun,g lad anti a lafs;He treated her with compliment?,Tte fweetefl Inimottrs cf contentTil! with ttioi'e wards i'.e did her treat;Yoti’rs wetcome into me my fweet;And if you Kr my fi irr d or foe.Or if you I.we me, tell me fo.I ll gws thee gold, I'll give thee pearl,If thou wo’nid but fancy me my g-rl;I’ll girs tp thee fine c'othes to wrai^If thou’lt confeiif to bn .ny dear.VII give th'(^ i'cndhs. 1 11 give thee lands,3 11 give thee flier in thy hand*.,‘md all that s mine, Jor», fh'.li !.% iliinejIf thou’it confect for. to be mice,It’t not your gold will me entice,'dor turn my virtue into viceNor yet thefe fla tcring lip« cf thine,ShaU ciiange tcis fettled reart of mine..Now Cupid with his p rreity dart.Ne’er yct.couj i v/ciiud my letthd'hf'tt j.(JMy heart’s n y own. anc fimll be fct;1; c.-vmft.t lyvtitue^ O,•%/( 8 )For aUho’ you would mv I'us demand,W,'o a raked fvrord into your hand,1 would rathet chuf# to lefe my lits,Than be to thee a wrddfd wife:For Cupid with his piercing dart.Ye- ne’er could w -und this/--tried.heartA maid l am rdolv’d to die,1 cannot love thee, P not 1.Then get thee gone, thou fancy dame,.}f thou’lt be ftiy l 11 be the fsine ;$ineo va haVt b‘en £■ fliy msii’ll ever prove the fame to tiiee.I have no doubt out l will findAs fair a female to my mind.So fare you well my own kind foe.You lhall never need to fay me no.Come back young man, be not fo faftrYc feem as ye were in a hade iC.me back and «Jce another kifs,la token of a true love’s bnfs.1 have no doubt but you may find.As fair a female to your nnnd ;>iy heart is thine, and liia'l*be fc,I nevci; more wiil fay thee no.Now mv winter form is pafl,And fumme;-pleafure s come at laa;No mo e again the temptfo blow.For back again the tide do{h flow.Since Fortune s tied the lover £ knot.It ne'er again Aidil be foigot:Sne is my own, and fha 1 be fo,gi,c uQ V again wiil fay me no*l i ti i h