A SELECTIONOFRELIGIOUS ANECDOTES,CHOICE SAYINGS OF WISE MEN,&c. &c.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,1856.Price One Penny.LAIJ R ^;r-JjLIGG eve JaCaa2.-1899'fcEIK J KD EOB XIU' B00K2Erri?B&’n r v 8 e o //.:- a . / v ■■ j - " . JJ*i')&l-Q«£C* SSG*CHOICE BVAmOB OL A^ISE HEM'KEFieiOM YMECD0XE81Y SErECXIOyRELIGIOUS ANECDOTES.RELIGIOUS LIBERTY.Stephen, King of Poland, said to those who persuaded himto constrain some of his subjects who were of a differentreligion, to embrace his, “ I am king of men, and not of conjsciences. The dominion of the conscience belongs exclusivelyto God.”THE SWEARER REPROVED.The late Dr. A. Gifford was once showing the BritishMuseum to some visitors, when he was grieved and shockedat the profane conversation of a young gentleman. Takingan ancient copy of the Scptuagint, and showing it to him,“O! I can read that,” said he hastily. “Well,” said theDoctor, pointing to the third commandment, “ read thatpassage.” The young man was confounded, and desistedfrom swearing.DR. TAYLOR.This gentleman once said to the late Rev. John Newton ofSt. Mary, Woolnoth,—“ Sir, I have collated every word inthe Hebrew Scriptures seventeen times, and it is very strangethat the doctrine of the atonement, which you hold, cannotbe found by me.”“I am not surprised at that,” retorted Mr. Newton, “Ionce went to light my candle with the extinguisher upon it.”REV. JAMES DURHAM.This excellent and pious man was, on his death-bed, forsome time, under considerable darkness respecting his spiri¬tual state, and said to Mr. Carstairs, “For all that I havepreached or written, there is but one scripture I can remem¬ber, or dare hold to; tell me if I may venture the weight ofmy salvation upon it: ‘ Him that cometh unto me I will inno wise cast out.’” Mr. Carstairs replied, “You may de¬pend upon it, thought you had a thousand salvations atnazard.4How truly we may say of Christ as the foundation of ourhopes for eternity—“ Had I ten thousand gifts beside,I’d cleave to Jesus crucified,And build on him alone:For no foundation is there givenOn which I’d place my hopes of heaven,But Christ the corner-stone.”THE CONSOLATION OF SCRIPTURE.Cowper, in the memoirs of his early life, says, “ My chiefaffliction consisted in being singled out from all the otherboys by a lad about fifteen years of age, as a proper objectupon whom he might let loose the cruelty of his temper.One day, as I was sitting alone lijion a bench in the school,melancholy, and almost ready to weep at the recollection ofwhat I had already suffered, and expecting at the same timemy tormentor every moment, these words of the Psalmistcame into my mind, ‘ I will not be afraid of what man can dounto me.’ I applied this to my own case, with a degree oftrust and confidence in God, that would have been no disgraceto a much more experienced Christian. Instantly I per¬ceived in myself a briskness of spirit and a cheerfulness whichI had never before experienced, and took seventl paces upand down the room with joyful alacrity—his gift in whom Itrusted. Happy would it have been for me if this early efforttowards the blessed God had been frequently repeated byme.”PRACTICAL EFFECT OF CHRISTIANITY.Lord Barrington once asked Collins, the infidel writer, howit was that, though he seemed to have very little religionhimself, he took so much care that his servants should attendregularly at church. He replied, “To prevent their robbingor murdering me.” To such a character how applicable arethese words, “Out of thine own month will I judge thee.”DEATH.The mortality of the human race is an affecting subject.The thought that his vast army would be dead in a hundredyears affected Xerxes even to tears; and Dr. Johnson saysthat a similar effect was produced upon him, when he beheldthe gay and thoughtless assemblage at Kanelagh. But it isour own mortality that should chiefly affect us, and especiallythe fact, after death, the judgment.BEN SYRA.When his preceptor declined to instruct him in the law of5God, alleging that he was yet too young, the scholar replied,' “Master, I have been in the burial ground to measure thei graves, and found some of them shorter than myself; now, ifI should die before I have learned the Word of God, whatwill become of me then, master? ”How forcible are right words ! Let the young study theBible, pray earnestly to God, use the means of grace, norrest till they have found Christ, whc alone can save themI from the punishment that will eventually overtake the im-| penitent sinner.SIN.In explaining the distinction between sins of omission andcommission, a minister once used the following mode of illus¬tration,—“ Behold yonder fire, which lately burned with somuch brightness; it is now dull: let it alone and it will soongo out; but if you pour water upon it, you will put it out.The first is an act of omission, the second of commission.”EPIGKAM.“ He can’t be wrong whose life is in the right.”Thus sang the poet—credit not his song;For sacred writ inscribes, in beams of light,—He can't be right whose faith is in the wrong.ARCHBISHOP TILLOTSON’S RESOLUTIONS.The following resolutions were found iu the desk of Arch¬bishop Tillotson, written at the age of sixty-six,—June 7,1696:—1. Not to be angry with any body, upon any occasion,because all anger is foolish; and a short fit of madnessbetrays us to great indecencies; and whereas it is intended tohurt others, the edge of it turns upon ourselves: we alwaysrepent of it, and are at least more angry at ourselves by beingangry at others.2. Not to be peevish and discontented: this argues little¬ness of mind.3. To use all gentleness towards all men: in meeknessinstructing those that oppose themselves.4. Whenever I see any error or infirmity in myself, insteadof intending to mend it, to resolve upon it presently and effec¬tually.5. To read this every morning before I go to prayer.READINESS FOR DEATH.“ I desire,” said the late Rev. Cradock Glascott of Hather-leigh, “ to have all my affairs in such a state, that when my6Master sends his chariot to the door, I may have nothing ton.do but to step in.”IBUE HAPPINESS.Oxenstein, Chancellor of Sweden, observed to the Englishambassador, Whitlocke, “ I have seen much of this world;but I never knew how to live till now: all the Comfort Ihave, and what is more than the whole world can give, is*that I feel the good spirit in my heart, and reading this goodbook—the Bible.”THALES.When he was asked how much truth should differ from aHe, “As much,” replied he, “ as the eyes differ from the ears.”Intimating that what is heard may be false, but that which isseen is certain.THE SOUL.Creation’s ample and extensive round,The wealth and honours of this earthly ball,All, all are trifles, all an empty sound ;For one immortal soul outweighs them all.CONVERSION BT A TKAOT.Three commercial travellers engaged when at Rotherham, tospend the Sabbath at Doncaster, and set out each in his owngig. They were met by a gentleman who presented a tract 'to the first. It was entitled, “ Sabbath Occupations.” Hedid not like it, and fastening1 the lash of his whip roundit, handed it to the next; he liked it no better, andhanded it in the same manner to the third. On lookingat it, the instructions of his father occurred to him, and hisday’s pleasure was spoiled. When they arrived at Doncaster,he separated from the other two and went to a place of wor¬ship, eventually became serious, and was afterwards a preacherof the gospel in the established church, in London!“Who hath despised the day of small things?” and whocan calculate the amount of good produced, under God, bythe circulation of one single tract? What encouragementto distribute them!HONESTY.When the Prince of Conde took leave of his son, the Dued’Engbuein, ho gave him his blessing, and fixing his eyesupon him, in the most affectionate manner, said, “ In thisworld, my son, which I am about to quit, there is only onething that is solid and deserves esteem, that is—to have beenthroughout life an honest man.”7This observation is very excellent so far as it goes; for asi it relates to this world, in our intercourse with men, honestyi is necessary and important.“ An honest man’s the noblest work of God.”Let us remember, however, that mere morality will not carryus to heaven. With honesty must be joined the possession ofI the grace of God, the true principle of religion, without which! all is vain.FATAL EFFECTS OF PASSION.A schoolmaster at Macclesfield, having heard that a personI had insulted his daughter, went to the house of a neighbourwhere he lodged, in order to expostulate with him. WhileI he was waiting, he got into a most violent passion, whichI increased to so great an extent on the appearance of theoffender, that he sunk back in a chair and expired!It is astonishing that persons do not attend diligently andI resolutely to the government of the temper. “ He that isi slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that rulethI his spirit,” says Solomon, “hath more glory than he that: taketh a city.” It is an awful fact that anger is not only ai short madness, but even murder. Its first risings, therefore,; should be suppressed, and parents should commence withtheir children at an early age, and endeavour, as far as theyare capable, to restrain and correct their bad tempers, and, enforce their corrections and instructions by their ownexample, for “ Example is better than precept.”SALADtN.It was a humbling lesson that the great Saladin, whendying, gave to his soldiers. Calling for his standard-bearer,he ordered him to take his winding-sheet upon his pike, andgo out to the camp with it and tell the army, “That of allhis conquests, victories, and triumphs, he had nothing nowleft him, but that piece of linen to wrap his body in forburial! ”As we brought nothing into this world, so it is certain wecan carry nothing out. All that will remain to us at lastwill be our coffin and our grave-clothes!BENEFIT OF EARLY RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION.Rev. J. Newton When he lost his mother and went outinto the world, the light he had received became dim.I Associating with ungodly companions, he proceeded to extra-! ordinary lengths in wickedness. Still, the seed sown in hisinfancy, though buried, was not destroyed. The instructions8received from his mother often recurred to his thoughts nn&laffected his conscience. And the once profane sailor became,eventually, a pious and useful minister of Jesus Christ.A young man who had been taught some scripture lessons!by his grandmother, was afterwards led to a foreign country.; ■While there, he had a serious illness, during which it pleasedGod to bring to his recollection the instructions he had re-coived in his youth, and so to bless them to his soul, as to Ilead him to the knowledge of Christ, whom to know is life |eternal.EXCELLENCT OP THE SCRIPIUBES.Luther said he would not take all the world for one leaf of |the Bible. “To apply ourselves to the writings of thewisest heathen,” says Dr. Bates, “in order to our happiness,and to neglect the Scriptures, is to be guilty of worse follythan the barbarous Indians at Mexico, who, though theirwoods abounded with wax, the labour of the bees, yet onlymade use of brands, that afforded a little light with a greatdeal of smoke.”PRAYER.A gentleman of very considerable fortune, but a strangerto either personal or family religion, one evening took a soli¬tary walk through a part of his own grounds. He happenedto be near a mean hut, where a poor man lived with a numer-ous family, who earned their bread by daily labour. Heheard a voice pretty loud and continued, and not knowingwhat it was, he was prompted by curiosity to listen. Theman happened to be at prayer with his family. As soon ashe could distinguish the words, he heard him give thankswith great affection to God, for the goodness of his provi¬dence in giving food to eat and raiment to put on, and insupplying what was necessary and comfortable for the presentlife. He was immediately—no doubt by divine power—struckwith astonishment and confusion, and said to himself, “ Doesthis poor man, who has nothing bat the meanest fare, andthat purchased by hard labour, give thanks to God for hisgoodness to himself and family, and I, who enjoy ease andhonour, and every thing that is grateful and desirable, havehardly ever bent my knee, or made any acknowledgment tomy Maker and Preserver? ”It pleased God, that this providential occurrence provedthe means of bringing him to a real and lasting sense ofreligion.SIIUTER, THE COMEDIAN,Who had a great partiality for Mr. Whjtefield, often attended9his ministry. At one period of his popularity, he was actingin a drama under the character of “ Ramble.” During therun of the performance, he attended service one Lord’s-daymorning at Tottenham Court Chapel, and was seated in thepew exactly opposite to the pulpit. While Mr. Whitefieldwas giving full sally to his soul, and in his energetic addresswas inviting sinners to the Saviour, he fixed his eye steadfastlyupon Shntcr, adding to what he had previously said,—“ Andthou, poor Ramble, who hast long rambled from Him, comeyon also; O end your rambling by coming to Jesus.” Shuterwas exceedingly struck, and following Mr. Whitefield after¬wards into the vestry, said, “ I thought I should have fainted;how could you serve me so ? ”THE POWER OP GOD.The Thracians had a very striking emblem expressive ofthe almighty power of God. It was a sun with three beams—one shining upon a sea of ice, and melting it; another upona rock, and melting it; and a third upon a dead man, andputting life into him. How strictly does this emblem har¬monize with what the apostle says of the gospel—that it isthe power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth ?it melts the hardest heart into a uniform obedience to thedivine will, and raises those who were dead in trespasses andsins, to a life of righteousness.FILIAL EESPECT.A poor widow had an only son, who having lived a mostprofligate life, at length listed, went abroad, and fought underLord Wellington in the Peninsula. Some time after, thecompanion of this youth listed in the same regiment, andbefore he left for the army, he called upon the poor widow toinquire if she wished to send any thing to her son. Shereplied, “No: I have nothing to send him; but you may tellhim that his impiety has almost broke my heart ”—then sud¬denly recollecting herself, she said, “ Stay, I will send himsomething; give him this Bible, and say it was the lastrequest of his broken-hearted mother that he would read onechapter of it every day.” When he had joined his old com¬panion, they resolved to follow the advice of the old lady, andbegan the New Testament together, and got as far as thothird chapter of John, where it speaks of a regeneration, andthat they could not understand; but luckily there was an oldsoldier in the regiment who was able to explain it to them,and which was the cause of their conversion! Shortly after,the poor youth was mortally wounded in an engagement, and10he was found in the field with the Bible in .his hand coveredwith blood, and in that state it was returned to his mother.PREPARING FOR ETEBNITY.He who cannot find time to consult his Bible, will find,one day, that he has time to be sick; he who has no time topray, must find time to die. He who can find no time toreflect, is most likely to find time to sin; he who cannot findtime for repentance, will find an eternity in which repentancewill be of no avail Let us then, under the influence of thedivine Spirit, seriously reflect under what law wre came intothe world. “It is appointed for all men once to die, andafter death the judgment.” Is it not obvious then, that thedesign of life is to prepare for judgment? and that in pro¬portion as we employ time well, we make immortality happy ?—11, More.THE REV. WALTER SINGER,Father of Mrs. Elizabeth Rowe, received his first effectualconvictions when he w'as in the tenth year of his age: fromwhich time he was remarkable for having never neglectedprayer. His daughter, Mrs. E. Rowe, was blessed withstrong impressions of grace at a still earlier period. “ Myinfant hands,” says she, in her “Devout Exercises,’1 “wereearly lifted up to Thee; and I soon learned to know andacknowledge the God of my fathers.”THE REV. ROBERT HALLPaid great attention to religion when young. At seven yearsof age, he was fbnd of preaching in imitation of his belovedfather; and collected his playfellows and some of the servants,and addressed them on the subject of religion. An old ser¬vant, who had watched over him with parental solicitude,used to say, in her own homely style, “ I will answer for it,that my dear Bobby knew the Lord before he was seven yearsold.” He ivas in the habit of secret prayer before he couldspeak plainly.AFFECTION TO A MOTHER.Captain Philip Melville, speaking of bis mother, said,“Dear, dear mother, how soothing and delightful is thename I how much more the remembrance of thy kind officesof love—thy pious concern to raise my childish thoughts fromnature up to nature’s God—thy faithful and earnest expostu¬lations when my sinful heart led me astray! This excellentparent by her example showed one how engaging is pietywhen it flows from a sincere heart; she taught me to pray,11she instructed me in Christian principles, and led me to thealtar.”DIFFERENCES OF OPINION.“I will not quarrel^with yon,” said the celebrated JohnWesley, “about any opinion; only see that your hearts beright towards God, that you know and love the Lord JesusChrist, that you love your neighbour, and walk as your Masterwalked, and I desire no more. I am sick of opinions; I amweary to hear them. Give me solid and substantial religion;give me an humble, gentle lover of God and man; a man fullof mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and withouthypocrisy; a man laying himself out in the work of faith, thepatience of hope, the labour of love. Let my soul be withthese Christians wheresoever they are, and whatsoever opinionthey are of. ‘ Whosoever thus doeth the will of my Fatherwhich is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, andmother.’ ”BLASPHEMY PUNISHED.On the 4th August, 179G, between eleven and twelve o’clockin the forenoon, a violent storm of thunder and lightning arosein the district of Montpelier. In a field about a mile fromthe town, a body of 900 French soldiers lay encamped. Ata small distance from the camp, five of the soldiers wereassisting a husbandman in collecting the produce of the earthfor hire. When the storm came on, the whole party tookrefuge under a tree, where the five soldiers began to blas¬pheme God for interrupting them in their labour; and oneof them, in the madness of his presumption, took up his fire¬lock, which he happened to have by him, and pointing ittowards the skies, said that ho would fire a bullet at Himwho sent the storm! Seized with horror at the blasphemousdeclaration, the husbandman made all the haste he could toquit the company; but scarcely had he got to the distance often paces from the tree, when a flash of lightning struck fourof the soldiers dead, and wounded the fifth in such a manner,that his recovery was despaired ofBLESSINGS OF EDUCATION.The Rev. Dr. Waugh was enlarging one evening at a pub¬lic Sunday-school meeting, on the blessings of education; andturning to his native country, Scotland, for proof, told hisauditors the following anecdote:—At a board-day at thePenitentiary, at Millbank, the food of the prisoners was dis¬cussed, and it was proposed to give Scotch broth thricea-week. Some of the governors were not aware what sort ofbroth the barley made, and desired to taste some before theyjsanctioned the measure. One of the officers was accordingly!directed to go to the wards and bring a Scotchwoman com¬petent to the culinary task, to peffbrm it in the kitchen.After long delay, the Board fancying the broth was preparingall the while, the officer returned, and told their honours thatthere was no Scotchwoman in the house.MUSIC.“Music,"said Luther, “ is one of the fairest and most gloriousgifts of God, to which Satan is a bitter enemy^for it removesfrom the heart the weight of sorrows, and the fascination ofevil thoughts. Music is a kind of gentle sort of discipline; itrefines the passions, and improves the understanding. Eventhe dissonance of unskilful performers serves to set off thecharms of true melody, as white is made more conspicuousby the opposition of black. Howis it that on profane subjectswe have so many fine verses and elegant poems, whilst ourreligious poetry remains so languid and dull? Those wholove music are gentle and honest in their tempers. I alwaysloved music, and would not for a great matter be without thelittle skill which I possess in this art.”Since the days of Luther, a great improvement has takenplace in psalmody; and had he lived in these times, whatwould he have thought of the beautiful and sublime com¬positions of Handel, Haydn, Mozart, Mendelsohn, &c.-&c.The father of a family should always encourage in his chil¬dren a taste for musicBISHOP BUTLER.When his lordship lay on his dying bed, he called for hischaplain, and said, “ Though I have endeavoured to avoidsin, and to please God to the utmost of my power, yet, fromthe consciousness of perpetual infirmities, I am still afraid todie.”—“ My lord,” said the chaplain, “ you have forgottenthat Jesns Christ is a Saviour.”—‘‘True," was the answer;but how shall I know that he is a Saviour for me? ”—“ Mvlord, it is written, ‘ Him that cometh to me I will in no wisecast out.’”—“True,” said the bishop; “and I am surprisedthat, though I have read that Scripture a thousand times over,I never felt its virtue till this moment; and now I die happy.”PATIENCE IN AFFLICTION.In affliction, constrain yourself to hear patiently for a dayor so, merely for the sake of trying whether patience doesnot lighten the burden. If the experiment answers, as youwill undoubtedly find, you have only to continue it.13THE GOD OF BATTLES.A remarkable instance of attention to the blessing of thedivine Being, was exhibited in the conduct of the valiant andpions Admiral Duncan, previous to his celebrated action offCamperdown. During the awful moments of preparation, hecalled all his officers upon deck, and in their presence pros¬trated himself in prayer before the God of Hosts, committinghimself and them, with the cause they maintained, to Hissovereign protection, his family to His care, his soul and bodyto the disposal of His providence. Rising then from hisknees, ho gave command to make the attack, and achievedone of the proudest victories in the annals of England.ADJOURNING A DISCOURSE.A clergyman of the Establishment preached by permissionin the pulpit of a brother divine. His sermon was longerthan usual, and his doctrine not approved of by all the con¬gregation. The parochial minister was spoken to on thesubject, and the promised second part of the sermon wasadjourned sine die. The disappointed preacher inquired thecause of this, and was told the principal objector was a mosteminent Greek scholar. “Ah, ah!” said he, “I am notsurprised at this, for St. Paul has said that the gospel wasunto the Jews a stumbling-block, and unto the Greeks foolish¬ness.' ‘# RABBI ELIEZERSaid to his disciples, “Turn to God one day before yourdeath.”—“ How can a man,” replied they, “know the day ofhis death?”—“True,” said Eliezer; “therefore you shouldturn to God to-day, perhaps you may die to-morrow; thusevery day will be employed in returning.”MATTHEW HENRY’S COMMENTARY.“ I have often read portions of Henry’s Commentary,” saidthe late Rev. Robert Hall to h:j friend Mr. Greene, “andconsulted it; but I have now begun the first chapter ofGenesis, and mean to read the work through regularly. Ihave set myself, sir, two chapters every morning, and I anti¬cipate it as a feast. This is the way to read Matthew Henry,sir. I discover new beauties in him every day, that are notobvious when reading detached parts. I would advise you toadopt the same method, sir; you will be quite delighted withit. I have found that the most pious persons of my acquain¬tance, in the latter part of their lives have been great readersof Henry. There must be something next to inspiration inhim, sir.” ,,14This testimony is true, and coming from such a man asfEobert Hall, is no trifling recommendation of that valuablework.HEAVEN.An infidel, wishing to display his ungodly wit, said to apious, humble Christian, “ Can you tell me what sort of aplace heaven is? ”—“Yes, sir,” replied the latter, “heavenis a prepared place, for a prepared people; and if your soul isnot prepared for it, with all your boasted wisdom you willnever enter there.” And what is it to be prepared? ReadJohn iii. 3. It is to be regenerated by the Holy Spirit,washed in the blood of Jesus, and clothed with his righteous¬ness.CAD ADVICE.When a young man made an open profession of the gospel,his father, greatly offended, gave him this advice, “James,you should first get yourself established in a good trade, andthen think of and determine about religion.’’—“ Father,” saidthe son, “ Christ advises me very differently:—he says, ‘ Seekye first the kingdom of God.’ ”INFLUENCE OF RELIGION.The servants of a nobleman having been greatly impressedand evidently changed, under the preaching of the gospel, hislordship was one day bantered by some of his friends uponthe occasion. He replied, “As to the change of their religibn,or what their religious sentiments are, I cannot tell; but onething I know, that since they have changed their religion,they have been much better servants, and shall meet noopposition from me."What an honourable testimony was this!—a testimonythat should always be merited by professors of religion, bythe consistency of their conduct, by the sincerity of their dis¬course, by the mildness and urbanity of their temper anddisposition. It is disgraceful when Christians act differently.THE PROBLEM.A minister, addressing a young man celebrated for hismathematical knowledge, said, “ I have heard you are cele¬brated for mathematical skill; I have a problem which I wishyou to solve.”—“What is it?” eagerly asked the young"man. The minister replied, with a solemn tone, “ Whatshall it profit a man, if he gain the whole world, and lose hisown soul!” The youth endeavoured to shake off the im¬pressions produced, but in vain. In the giddy round ofpleasure, in his business and in his studies, the question for-15cibly returned. It finally resulted in his conversion, and hobecame an able advocate and preacher of the gospel which heonce rejected.KEV. MOSES BROWN.A friend once said to him, “ Sir, you have just as manychildren as the patriarch Jacob.”—“True,” said he, “and Ihave also Jacob’s God to provide for them.”riNAl, STATE OF THE HEATHEN.A clergyman being asked if he thought that pious heathenwould go to heaven, replied, “I am not appointed judge ofthe world, and consequently cannot tell; but if ever you getto heaven, you shall either find them there, or have a goodreason why they are not.”REV. JOHN NEWTON.A young clergyman visiting him on his death-bed, expressedmuch regret at the prospect of losing so eminent a labourerin the Lord’s vineyard. The venerable servant of Godreplied, “I am going before you; you will come after meby-and-by. When you arrive, old acquaintance will lead youto inquire for me; and I will tell you where you will be mostlikely to find me—at the feet of the thief on the cross!PROFANE JESTING.“ Jest not with the two-edged sword of God’s Word. Willnothing please thee to wash thy hands in but the font ? or todrink healths in but the church chalice? And know thewhole art is learnt at the first admission, and profane jestswill come without calling. If, in the troublesome days ofKing Edwmrd the Fourth, a citizen in Cheapside was executedas a traitor, for saying he would make his sonne heir to thecrown, though he only meant his own house, having a crownfor the signe; more dangerous is it to wit-wanton it with themajestic of God. Wherefore, if without thy intention, andagainst thy will, by chance-medley thou hittest Scripture inthy ordinary discourse, yet flic to the city of refuge, and prayto God to forgive thee.”—Fuller.AVARICE.Avarice is a passion as despicable as it is hateful. Itchooses the most insidious means for the attainment of itsends ; it dares not pursue its means with the bold impetuosityof the soaring eagle, but skims the ground in narrow circleslike the swallow.16AN ENGLISH SAILORBeing at Smyrna, went into an open mosque at the time o)$iprayer. Seeing the Turks kneeling and bowing, he flungidown his hat and knelt down too. After prayers they seized;on him, and took him before the Cadi as a convert to Maho¬metanism. As he could not be made to understand theirquestions, the dragoman of the English consul was sent for,;through whom he was asked if it were his wish to become aTurk. “No! no!”—“Why then did you go into the mosque?”—“ Why, I saw a church door open, and I thought any bodymight go into a church. I had not been in one for threeyears before, and my old mother’s advice just then came to-my mind—‘ Wherever you go, Jack, go to church !' ”the Christian’s possessions.A gentleman one day took an acquaintance upon the leadsof his house, to show him the extent of his possessions.Waving his hand about, “There,” says he, “that is myestate.” Then pointing to a great distance on one side, “ Doyou see that farm?”—“Yes.”—“Well, that is mine.”Pointing again to the other side, “ Do you see that house? ”—“Yes.”—“That also belongs to me.” Then said Jjisfriend, “ Do you see that little village out yonder?”—‘‘ Y*.”—“ Well, there lives a poor woman in that village, who cansay more than all this.”—“ Ay! what can she say ? ”—“ Why,.she can say, ‘ Christ is mine.’ ” He looked confounded, andsaid no more.HOW TO ACT IN CASES 01)’ DOUBT.In cases of doubtful morality it is usual to say,—Is thereany harm in doing this ? This question may sometimes bebest answered by asking ourselves another,—Is there anyharm in letting it alone ?THE SCOFFER CONFOUNDED.A gentleman in a stage-coach attempted to divert thecompany, and to display his hostility to the Scriptures byturning them into ridicule. “ As to the prophecies,” said he,“they were all written after the events took place.” Aminister in the coach who had previously been silent, replied,“ Sir, I must take leave to mention one remarkable prophecyas an exception,—‘ Knowing this first, that there shall comein the last days scoffers’ Now, sir, whether the event be notlong after the prediction, I leave the company to judge.”The mouth of the scorner was stopped.“ A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures ofsilver.”17THE ORIGIN OF LANGUAGE.Language cannot be contrived without thought and know¬ledge ; but the mind cannot have thought and knowledge tillit has language; therefore language must he previously taughtbefore man can become a rational creature, and none couldteach him but God.BENEFIT OF SMALL TRACTS.At a late missionary meeting. Dr. Waugh related thefollowing interesting fact:—One of his hearers, a Scottishgirl, was servant to a family in the city; and having thecharge of some children, she often, in a private manner, con¬versed with them upon religious subjects, and read somereligious tracts which she had received from the Tract Society.One day while thus employed, she was surprised by her ladycoming unexpectedly into the room, who inquired what shewas doing, and requested a sight of the book she was readingto her children. The servant was afraid, but could not with¬hold a sight of the book. The mother having perused thetract, instead of being offended, praised the servant, inquiredwhat minister she attended, who were her parents, and whattheir circumstances. Being informed that they were old andpoor, and that she sent them all she could spare of her wages,the good lady sent for the Dr., and gave him five pounds totransmit to the aged parents, which she engaged to repeatyearly, as long as they lived.THE TRUTH OF THE BIBLE.There are four grand arguments for the truth of the Bible.The first is, the miracles it records. 2. The prophecies itcontains. 3. The goodness of the doctrine. 4. The morali character of the penman.The miracles flow from divine power, the prophecies fromdivine understanding, the excellence of the doctrine fromdivine goodness, and the moral character of the penman fromdivine purity. Thus Christianity is built upon these four; immoveable pillars, the power, the understanding, the good-: ness, and the purity of God.The Bible must be the invention either of good men ori angels, bad men or devils, or of God.It could not be the invention of good men or angels, forthey neither would nor could make a book, and tell lies allthe time they were writing it, saying, “ Thus saith the Lord,”when it was their own invention.It could not be the invention of bad men or devils, for theywould not make a book, which commands all duty, forbidsall sin, and condemns their souls to all eternity. I therefore18draw this conclusionThe Bible must be given by divineinspiration.A CHMSTIAN.A Christian is a new creature in a new world; he has anew heart, is under a new government, serves a new master,observes new laws, is actuated by new fears, influenced by newlove, animated by new delights, and is a partaker of new joys.-—Luther.THE STUDY OP SACKED HISTORY.In studying sacred history, endeavour to get clear ideas ofsome great epochs or remarkable points of time, such as thecreation of the world, 4000 years b.c. The deluge, 2348 n.c.The calling of Abraham, 1921 b.c. The departure of Israelout of Egypt, 1491 b.c. The building of Solomon’s temple,1012 b.c. The captivity, 588 b.c. The close of the OldTestament history, 409 b.c. And the birth of Christ. Otherevents between these periods will then bo more easily arranged. in the mind.THE DIVINITY OP CHRIST.“The divinity of Jesus,” says Dr. Mason, “ is, in the sys¬tem of grace, the sun to which all its parts are subordinate,and all their stations refer, which binds them in sacred con¬cord, and imparts to them their radiance, and life, and vigour.Take from it this central luminary, and the glory is departed—its holy harmonies are broken—the elements rush to chaos—the light of salvation is extinguished for ever.”LORD CRAVENLived in London when the last great plague raged. Hishouse was in that part of the town called Craven Buildings.On that sad calamity growing epidemic, his lordship, to avoidthe danger, resolved to retire to his seat in the country. Hiscoach-and-six were accordingly at the door, the baggage putup, and all things in readiness for the journey. As he waswalking through his hall with his hat on, his cane under his'arm, and putting on his gloves, in order to step into his !carriage, he overheard his negro (who served him as a posti¬lion,) saying to another servant, “ I suppose, by my lord’squitting London to avoid the plague, that his God lives inthe country, and not in town.” The poor negro saidthis in the simplicity of his heart, as really believing a plu¬rality of gods. The speech, however, struck Lord Cravenvery sensibly, and made him pause. “ My God,” thought he,“ lives every where, and can preserve me in town as well asin the country: I’ll e’en stay where I am. The ignorance ofL  Jj that negro has preached a useful sermon to me. Lord, pardoni that unbelief, and that distrust of thy providence, which made: me think of running away from thy hand.” He immediatelyordered the horses to be taken off from the coach, and theluggage to be brought in. He continued in London; wasremarkably useful among his sick neighbours, and nevercaught the infection.CONVERSION or GALEN.This celebrated heathen was converted from atheism by! contemplating a human skeleton, persuaded that workman¬ship so exquisite, and design so manifest, plainly demonstratedthe existence of a Creator.EMPEROR MAXIMILIAN.Being one day thus addressed by a beggar who solicited hisalms,—“We are all children of the same Father,” he gavehim a trifle. “ This is very little for a monarch,” said thebeggar. “True,” replied the emperor; “but if everyoneof your brothers gave you as much, you would be richer thanI am.”COMFORT IN SHIPWRECK.A certain philosopher, when he was shipwrecked, and thepeople were busily employed in removing their goods fromthe vessel, one of them said to him, “ What, do you carrynothing away? Do you leave your goods to destruction ? ”—“No,” said he, “I carry all my goods with me.” TheChristian has a treasure in his heart amidst all the losses oflife. He has Christ in him: the hope of glory.INFLUENCE OF THE BIBLE.The school-room in Short’s Gardens was formerly used asa warehouse by an army contractor. Passing this way, hewas much struck with the different appearance which theneighbourhood had assumed since the period when it wasmore familiar to him. The children used to be playing inthe streets at all sorts of idle games, and indulging in allsorts of wickedness. The place was in fact a nursery ofcrime; and from one small court alone, opposite to thepresent school, several young people had been transported.Now, however, all was order, quietness, and decency. Whatcould be the cause of all this? The gentleman heard anoise of young voices in his old premises. He stepped in,and was no longer in doubt as to the cause of this greatchange—he beheld it filled with young children learning to readtheir Bibles I20EFFECTS OF SIN.What was it that cast the angels from heaven ? It was sin. •What was it that banished our first parents from the favourof God ? It was sin. What was it that brought death intothe world, and all our wo? It was sin. What has madedeath the “ king of terrors ? ’ It is sin. What was it thatbrought the Lord of Glory from the blissful realms above, to ;take up his abode among the habitations of human misery ?It was sin. What was it that made him through life pre¬eminently “ a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief,”and finally nailed him to the cross ? It was sin. Sin it wasthat lighted the flames of hell, and sin will be the fuel thatshall feed those flames eternally. “ Let not, therefore, sin !reign in your mortal bodies, that ye should obey it in the jlusts thereof.” >PRAYERIs the peace of our spirit, the stillness of our thoughts, theevenness of recollection, the seat of meditation, the rest ofour cares, and the calm of our tempest. It is the daughterof charity, and the sister of meekness.MENTAL PRAYER,When our spirits wander, is like a watch standing still,because the spring is down ; wind it up again, and it goes onregularly; but in vocal prayer, if the words run on, and thespirit wanders, the clock strikes false, the hand points not tothe right hour, because something is in disorder, and the ,striking is nothing but noise.—Jeremy Taylor.HABITUAL DEVOTIONWould settle the ferment of our youthful passion, and sweetenthe last dregs of our advanced age. How would this makeour lives yield the calmest satisfaction, as some flowers shedthe most fragrant odours just at the close of the day1FILIAL AFFECTION.It was said of Mr. Links of Durham, by his father, “ Myson has never wilfully given me half-an-hour’s uneasiness:”and this filial piety he retained to the latest period of hislife.Happy would it be if this could be said of every child.RELIGION AMONG NEGROES.A person who had expressed some doubts whether thenegroes had received any advantages by hearing the gospel,was asked whether he did not think one named Jack was21better for the preaching, he replied, “ Why, I must confessthat he was formerly a drunkard, a liar, and a thief, but cer¬tainly he is now a sober boy, and I can trust him with anything; and since he has talked about religion, I have tried tomake him drunk, but failed in the attempt.”This was an important testimony, such as ought to be borneto the conduct of every professor of religion; for the grace ofGod, which bringeth salvation, teacheth us to deny all un¬godliness and worldly lusts, and to live soberly, righteously,and godly. It is disgraceful when the profession and conductare at variance.GIDEON.A converted Indian was one day attacked by a savage, whopresented a gun to his head, exclaiming, “Now I will shootyou, for you speak of nothing but Jesus.” Gideon replied,“ If Jesus does not permit it, you cannot shoot me.” Thesavage was struck with the answer, dropped his gun, andwent home in silence.SWEARING.A profane coachman, pointing to one of his horses, said toa pious traveller, “ That horse, sir, knows when I swear athim.”—“Yes,” replied the traveller, “and so does Oneabove.” The coachman seemed to feel the reproof, andimmediately became silent.HAPPY DEATH OP AN INDIAN.A missionary in the East Indies was called to visit one 01the native Christians in a dying state. He inquired how shefelt, “Happy! happy!” was her reply, and laying her handon the Bible, added, “ I have Christ here," and, pressing it toher heart, “ and Christ here,” and pointing to'heaven, “ andChrist there.”HEARING.A person having returned from public worship somewhatsooner than usual, was asked by another of the family whohad not been there, “Is all done?”—“No,” replied she; “allis said, but all is not done.”When we have heard the Word of God preached, we shouldproceed to the practical influence, and ask, In what re¬spect does the sermon reprove me? In what does it in¬struct me ? What bad tempers does it condemn ? WhatChristian graces does it inculcate? Many hearers seem as ifthey went to the house of God for no other purpose than tocriticise the preacher, or to collect materials for scandal. Woto such hearers!22SIN UNPROFITABLE.A minister once went into a barn where he found a threshaat his work. “In all labour there is profit,” said he. “Nosir,” replied the labourer with much energy, as he leaneupon his flail, “ that is the truth, certainly, but there is onexception to it; I have long laboured in the service of sitbut I derived no profit by my labour.”ASKING A BLESSING.A minister went to dine at the house of one of his hearer1whom he was in the habit of visiting. Dinner being placeon the table, the master of the house requested the ministeto ask a blessing. It was no sooner done, than a prattlinboy, about seven years old, asked the following appropriatquestion, “Papa, what is the reason we always have a blessing asked when Mr.   dines with us, and never at an;other time ? ” We need not add that papa felt much difficult;in replying. Children and servants make their remarks wheithey see professors of religion act inconsistently.PHILIP HENRYGave these four rules to be observed in our converse wit!men:— ' ; ;1. Have communion with few.2. Be familiar with one.3. Deal justly with all.4. Speak evil of none.He observed, that no condition of life will of itself make rman content without the grace of God, for we find Hamardiscontented in a court; Ahab discontented on a throne^Adam discontented in Paradise; and angels discontented inheaven itself.There were four things which, he observed, he would nothave against him for the world:—The Word of God.* His own conscience.The prayers of the poor.The account of godly ministers.He used also to say, that a man who hath a blind con¬science which sees nothing; a dead Conscience which feelsnothing; and a dumb conscience which says nothing; is inas miserable a condition as a man can be on this side hell.CULTURE OF THE MIND.The human mind is originally an unsown field, prepared23for the reception of any crop; and if those to whom the cul¬ture of it belongs neglect to fill it with good grain, it willspeedily he covered with weeds. If right principles of actionare not implanted, wrong principles will soon make theirappearance.EDWARD VI.(When Sir John Cheek, one of his tutors, was sick,) askingone morning how his tutor did, was answered, that “ he wassupposed to be near death; and had been absolutely givenover by his physicians.”—“No,” replied the king, “he willnot die this time; for I have been wrestling for him to-daywith God in prayer, and I have had an answer of peace; Iknow he will recover.” And the event corresponded; Christalso prays for the spiritual and eternal life of his people; norprays only, but prevails.lotjis xt. or France.A poor priest came one day to this monarch when he wasat his devotion^ in the church, and told him that the bailiilswere about to arrest him for a sum he was unable to pay.The king immediately ordered him the money, saying, “ Youhave chosen your time to address me very luckily. It is butjust that I should show some compassion to the distressed,when I have been entreating God to have compassion uponmyself.” :(J rfI0jj„ITA poor woman complained one day to the same monarch,that the priests would not! inter her deceased husband in holyground, because he had died insolvent. “Good woman,”said he, “ I did not make the law, I assure you. Here issome money to pay your husband’s debts, and I will order| the priests to bury him as you wish.”INFIDELITY.Avowed infidelity is seldom, if ever, the result of diligentinquiry, or accurate research, but the entire accompanimentof corrupt principles, a depraved heart, and a vicious life.PARTY NAMES.Would to God that all the party names, and unseripturalphrases and forms which have divided the Christian world,were forgot; and that we might all agree to sit down together,-as humble, loving disciples at the feet of our common Master-,to hear his Word, imbibe his Spirit, and transcribe his life in' our own. ' , baud ATo this sentiment of the late Rev. John Wesley, everyChristian concerned for the advancement of trite religion willadd his Amen.24LUTHEB,When placed in any situation of trouble or peculiar danger,was accustomed to say, “ Come, let us sing the 46th Psalm,—1 God is our refuge and strength, a very present help introuble,’ &c.”PLATOBeing told by a friend what scandalous stories his enemieshad propagated concerning him, “ I will live so,” replied he,“that nobody shall believe them.”MISSIONARY ZEAL.A blind girl brought to a clergyman thirty shillings for themissionary cause. “ You cannot afford to give so much,”said he. “ I can afford it, sir, better perhaps than you ima¬gine,” replied she. “How so?”—“lam a basket maker,sir, and can work as well in the dark as in the light. Now,I am sure that in the last winter it must have cost the othergirls more than thirty shillings for candles to work by, whichI have saved, and therefore hope you will take it for themissionaries.”It may truly be said of the blind basket-maker, “She didwhat she could."WAR.“If Christian nations,” says Mr. Soame Jenyus, “werenations of Christians, all war would be impossible, and un¬known among them.” We might then hope soon to see theday when war shall bo made to cease, when swords should bebeat into ploughshares, and spears into pruning-hooks. MayGod hasten the time!DEI GRATIA.An officer, during an engagement, received a ball whichstruck him near his waistcoat pocket, where a piece of silverstopped the progress of the nearly spent ball. The coin wasslighty marked at the words “ Dei Gratia.” This providentialcircumstance deeply impressed his mind, and led him to reada tract, which his beloved and pious sister gave him on leavinghis native land, entitled, “ The Sin andJDanger of Neglectingthe Saviour.” This tract it pleased God to bless to his con¬version ! The ways of God are wonderful, and in none morethan in the salvation of sinners.KNOWLEDGE tJNSANCTIFIED.A head full of knowledge, and a heart full of lusts, willsink the soul into the lowest hell.! ;