THE2/G L A S G O W,ii rinted by J. Sc M. ROBERTSON, Sax.tmap.ket,M D C C C I P,MAD PRANKSTOM TRAM,ON-IN-LAW TO MOTHER WINTER« TO WHICH ARE ADD EliODD CONCEITS,'DPLEASANTBEING VERY DELIGHtFUL TO READ. -TH-EMAD PRANKSOFTOM TRAM.CHAP. I.A merry Jejl betwixt old Mother Winter^ andher Son-in-law Tan.THERE was an old woman, named Mo» tther Winter, that had but one Ton-in- 1law, and his name was Tom; and though ?lie was^at mail’s eftatc, yet would do no- ;thing but what he lifted, which grieved his oldmother to the heart. Upon a time being inthe market, fhe heard a proclamation. Thatthofe that would not work jhould he whipped,At which the old woman Leap’d, and with 'great joy home (he comes, meets with her 'Ion, and tells him the mayor of the town 1had made a decree, which was. That allthofe that would not work Jhould bp whipped.Has he fb, fays he, marry, my blefling on ihis heart; for my part, I’ll not break thedecree. So the old woman left her fon, .and went again to the market; fhe was no (fooner gone but her fon looks into the ftone !pots, which flie kept fmall beer in: and 'when he faw that the beer did not work, he r9THE MAD PRANKS, &c. 5I takes the pot, (trips off his doublet, andI with a carter’s whip he lays on them as hardI as he could' drive. The people who faw him.do it, told his mother what he had done ;flj which made the old wofrtan cry out, O! thac; young knave will be hanged. So in that:tone home (he goes. Her fon feeing hdr,; came running and foaming at the mouth tomeet her, and told her, that he had broke;both the pots; which made ths old woman;!to fay, O thou villain 1 what had thou done?iO mother, quoth he, you told me it wasI proclaimed , I'hat all thofe that would notiw'ork, mud be whipp’d ; and ,1 have oftenffeen our pots work fo hard, that they hayaf foamed fo much at the mouth, that they be-rfouled ail the houfe where they flood.; butIthefe two lazy knaves, faid he, told me;iThatthey did never wosk, nor never meant|to work; and therefore, quc.di he, I havewhipped them to death, to teach the red of|their fellows to work, or never look me inflthe face again.I ' CHAP. Ik^Another Jc/i of old Mother Winter, and herSen Tom.fflTTPON a time mother Winter fent herfon Tom into the market, to buy her1 penny worth of foap and gave him twelve*‘ pence, and charged him to bring it homefcife. Tom told her it (hon’d be fo; and tq>4 THE MAD PRANKS* -that end it fhould be fafe brought home, aecording, to his mother's charge, he goes andbuys one penny-worth of foap, ^and hiredtwo men with a hand barrow to carry thefoap, and four men with brown hills toguard it along to her, giving them the ele¬ven-pence for their pains, which made hismother in great fury, go to the mayor of thetown, who committed him to prifon: Now,the prilbn window joining clofe to the may¬or’s chamber window, Tom, and fome othermerry prifoners like himfelf, getting a cupof good liquor in their heads, began to ftngand roar and domoneer, infonmch that themayor heard them that night, and chargedthem they Ihould leave oft' drinking andfmging of bawdy fongs, and fmg goodplalms. Tom told him. That he ftiould hearthat he would amend his life, if he wouldpardon his fault. The mayor faid that fortheir rnii'demeaners, they Ihould be thatnight in prifon, and upon amendment, be¬ing neighbours, he would releafe them mthe morning. They thanked ti e mayor,and T om Tram prevailed fo far with a friendof his that he borrowed three fniliings;which three (hillings he fpent upon his fel¬low prifoners, which made the poor men beruled by him, and do what he enjoined them,to do ; fo when the mayor was gone to bed,the prifon'window, as before ooferved, be¬ing clofe to the chamber window, they be¬gun to ftng plalms fo loud, that the mayorOF TOM TRAM. j. paid take no reft; which made him caulci ?ne of his fervants to bid them leave olFjinging. 40m i'ram laid, That it was the:1 mayor's good counfei that, they fhcuId fmgiplarlms, and fmg they would, as long pa theylived there. Which made the mayor bid theI ail or turn them out of oriion, without pay-. ng their fees.CHAP. III.xhw Tom ferved his Hejlefs, and a TobaccySeller., being another of hIs JV/fr.' ... ...fT happened that Tom was font on an er¬rand forty miles from his abode, overmeaths and plains, where having dxfpatchedins birfmefs, he chanced tube lodeed in aroom mat opened into a )ard, where hisnoftefs kept many turkeys; which Tonxseeing, he thrufts pins into two of .their head®jlnd in the night they died. The womanIn the mo fixing wondered hov/ the fowls,ilihoutd come to die. Torn perfuaded her thatjfhere w'aT a great fteknefs where he dweltf iuongft all manner of fowls, and wifired hismftefs to -fling them away, the which fheliid. lom watched where fhe (long them,ind -when he took his. leave of his hoftefs,' t was at fuch a time when fhe was bufy fet¬ing bread i no the oven, fo that he wasare fhe could not look after him- So heji'oes and wraps the turkeys in his coat, andjiway ,he runs; but finding his two turkevs6 THE MAD PRANKSheavy, lie fees a man that fold tobacco upand down the country, at the foot of a hill,“when he alighted to lead his hor « ’own thehill, at the bottom of which lie tads down,and lies crying as if he had broke one of hislegs, and makes to the man a moll piteouslamentation ; that he was fix or feven milesfrom any town, there being no houfe near ;and that he was like to perifh for want offuccour. The man alked, Where he dwelt?he faid with a knight, to whom Tom didlive as a jefter. The man knowing the knight,and thinking Tom’s leg had really been bro¬ken, with much ado lifted him upon thehorfe. When T©m was mounted, he pray¬ed the man to give him his mailer's turkeys.Tom made the horfe to gallop away, cryingout, 1 lhall be killed ! I thali be killed! Omy leg! what (hall I do! O my leg! Theman feeing him gone Hood in amaze, andknew not v/hat to think; nevenhelefs, hedurft not leave his turkeys behind him, forfear of difpleafing the knight, but carriedthem lugging along fretting and fwearing inkis boots, till he came to the next town,where he hired a horfe to overtake Tom, butcould not, until he came to the knight’shoufe, where Tom flood to attend his com¬ing, looking out at the window. When theman alighted, Tom then calLd to him ft>'knid, that mod of the houfe heard him ; O,laid he, now 1 fee thou art an ho^ed min,1 had thought you had fet me upon your. OF TOM TRAM. fi fieaddrong borie, on purpofe to deceive mefftf my turkeys. The man replied, A poxjjake you and your turkeys, for I never wasj blay’d the knave with fo fn rny life; 1 hopeilhat you will pay for the hire of the horl'e,i which I was forced to borrow to follow y.cu-l withal. 1'hat I will, faid Tom, with all myf heart.CHAP. IV.i i Hoit) Tom paid the Man for his Horfe Hire*J r| 1OM alked the man what way he inten-|] ded to travel? Marry, faid the man,[ft mull go back with the horfe I have hired.rfQuoth Tom, what did you give for the hire!of him? Said the man, I gave five {hillings.yrWell, faid'Tom, I will fet you to the next^public houfe, and then we will eat one of|;|thd turkeys; and I will bring you in goodjifflver, the five flrillings for the horfe hire.flTtte place appointed being two miles off,||Tom appoints three or four of his corr.pa-illtions to meet him, who did not fail, fprdthey were there before Tom and his friend,Ijwho came riding upon the herfes, Tom up-Hon the hired horfe, and the man upon hisr'town. Tom alighted, and called the heftierto fet up his horfe, and to give him oits: enough, and caufed a turkey to be roafk..!;with ail poflible hafte; which, according as11 he commanded, was performed. But i'om■whifpered to his conforts, and w if bed them3 THE MAD PRANKSto ply the manith drink ; whilit he, in themean time, went to the hoft, afcd told him,t They came to be mtrry, and money wasfhort with him and defired he would lendhim ten fhiliings upon his horfe. The holthaving fo good a pawn, lent’i: him, know¬ing it woitld be fpent in his houfe. So Tomwent and gave the man five {hillings for thehire of the horfe, and fpends the other five'{hillings freely upon him: by that time theday was very nigh fpent, fo that the mancould get no further that night, but Toniand his companions took their leaves and.returned home and the man went his wayto bed litt'e fufpecting. the trick Tom hadput upon him. & the morning, the manrifing betimes, thinking to be gone, couldhave but one horfe, unlefs he paid ten {hil¬lings, for Toni had left word with his hoft,that paying the money, he {hould have bothhorfes. The man feeing himfelf cozened a-giin by fcm, paid the ten {hillings, andwifhed all fuch cheating knaves were hang¬ed, fo away he went fretting and foaming;to fee himfelf abufed.OH A P. V.Hew Ten ferved a Company of Gentlemen.TfT happened that a company of gentlemenJL being difpofed to create mirth, rode fornemiles from home to be merry, one of themwould needs have Toni to wait upon him*OF TOM TRAM. . $rand Tom wa& as willing a? he to ho in thatt company but as they were coming home,jijone of them cuts the reins of Tom'*? bri-Jjdle; fo that when Torn mounted upon hisjihorfe, the reins broke, and the horfe run| away with him'in the mid It of a great heath: whereon flood a large gallows againfl which: the horfe flood, and rubbed his neck, fot lrkat the gentleman hoop’d and hallow’d,and laid, Farewel, Tom, farewell bm Tom’ alighted from his horfe, and made fad hisi reins, and with his fword cut three -or fouriichips from off the gallows; and at the. next( tavern Tom met with them, where theypeer’d him not a iittfe; but Tom very-ear-■meftly entreated them to forbear ; yet thenmore he entreated them, the more theys(play’d upon him : But to be even with them,fin the morning Tom calls the ofl’er, andtSfends him for nutmegs and ginger, and g^tsj a grater; and when he had grated them, heihlfo grated the chips of the gallows, andtmiix’d with the fpice only a little nutmegnand ginger he laid towards one end of theitrencher for himfelf, and with a gallon ofilale -into the gentlemen’s chamber he goes*begging qf them not to mock him any more. ivith the gallows; and he would give them;{that ale and fpice; and fo, fays he, gentle-pien, I drink to you all.’ Now as foon asne had drank, the oilier call’d him, as he’j5ave him charge before fo to do, down flairstfuns Tom, as fail as he could: the gentle-. 'id THE MAD PRANKSmen made all poflible fpeed to drink up theale and fpice before he came up again, andthat was what Tom defired. When he cameagain, feeing all the ale and fpice gone, hefays, Gentlemen, will you know why myhorfe carried me to the gallows? Yes, faysone of them, Well, fays Tom, it was tofetch you fome fpice to your ale, and if youwant I have more for you j and with thatfhewed them the chips out of his pocket,and away.he runs, leaving the gentlemen tolook one upon another, ftudying how theyfhould be revenged on him.CHAP VI,Hoiv Tom rede a Gojfippsng.TOM heard of a company of women thatwould'meet at the place a houfe*warm.mg, to welcome one of the houfe. Thefewomen had formerly abufed Tom, and nowhe thought to be even with them, fo he goesto an apothecary’s Ihop, buy» a pound ofpurging comfits, and puts them in a cake•with other fpices, and dreffes himfelf inwomen’s apparel, and gets a horfe and apannel, and to the houfe he comes, knocks.at the door} and afked the maid, whetherthere were many women, came a houfe-warming? The raaidfaid, Not yet: I prayfays Toip^ take this cake, and if I come notat the meeting, let them eat it an^i be mer¬ry; fori mull go to a woman that is ready ,(0V TOM TRAM. uHe <!owr, and away he gofis. The wo-II ’ men came, and wondered what Woman' itihould be that left that cake j foraa of thermjfuppofed that it was fome midwife: Theyftaid a whMe, and the perfon they expeded. 'l l to be with them not coming, tney fell totheir meat, and at laft to the cake. But it; was not long in their belKes before it began.- to work, fo that one muft go to ftool, ano-: ther to vometing, and all of them were faTick, that the fmeli of-them perfumed thehoufe, and- the breath of them waf fo ftrong-,that none could endure it: In which timeTom fhifrs himfelf into man’s apparel, and; with a ftalF in his hand, came v/here his-goffips were, and hearing them groaning alli|| the houfe over, opened the door and alkedIII ihem what was the matter ? They anfwered,Ithey were all poifoned. Marry, quoth Tom,I hope not, if you pleafe to let me have s,horfe, I will ride to Mr. Do&or’s and fetchan antidote to expel the poifon. -Take myhorfe, quoth one; take my horfe, laid ano¬ther j or mine, faid a third. Well, well#! faid Tom, I will take one. And into theliable he goes, and takes three horfes, andi to the dolor’s he rides, and told him, thatall the people of fucha houfe had eaten fome-thing that hindred t)Wm from going to ftool 5and prayed him that he would without de¬lay, carry them fome GlylVts; and thatthey had fent a horfe for him and anotherfor his man. The doctor, greedy of money.v>2 THE MAD PRANKShafted thither with his glyfter-pipes as fa&as the horfes couM carry him and his man*hut the doctor no focner came into the houfe*but he fmeil’d there vvas no need of glyflers*Jn the mean time Tom told not only all he metwith, that there were fuch women met tobe merry .at fuch a place; and not only they,hii-t all the women of the houfe were poifon--ed but went likevrite to their hufoands, andtold them the like; fo that all the peoplethereabouts repaired thither; which madethe wome# fo aihamed, that thev knew notwhich way to look, becaufe ail that law themjudged they were drunk ; fo that inftead ofcomforting them, which they expected, theyfell a reviling them ; the women alio fell tofcolding among themfelves? and would havefought, had not their hufbands parted them, .by carrying them home.CHAP. yn.• **Hew Tcnn fei’ved a company oj Gypfies*TT happened on a day, towards night thatthere-came a company of Gypfes into atown, and had not very long been there tillTom met them, and afked them. Whatthey made there ? They faid, they came totown to tcii the peop^p their fortunes, thatthereby they might withftand. enfoing dan¬gers. Aye, fays Tom, and where d© youlie to-night ? 1 hey told him they could notsell. Nay, fafd Tom, if you will be con-OF TOM TRAM. 13tested to lie in ftraw, I will bring you wherelyou'may lie dry and warm. They thankedihitnr and told him they would tell him his11 fortune in the morning for nothing. Tons,i thanked them, and therefore eonveys thenaInto a little thach’d houfe which had a ditch: ‘round absut it, very clofe to the wall there-lof; that houfe Tom help’d them to fill with1 i ll raw, and fee them take their lodging; and: then, it being dark, Tom bad them good-I night; and as foon as he was over the bridge,'which was a plank, he drew it after him;i.and in the dead time of the night, Tom gets1a long pole, with a wifp of ftraw at the endliicf it, and fets the draw on fife, calling out!'»to the jeit of the fellows to Unit for them-afelves; who thinking to run over the bridge,iifeil into the ditch, crying and calling outpfor help, while, by Tom’s means, mod partjof the town doud -to fee the jed ;■ and as theI gypfies waded through the ditch, they tookjlthem, and curried them into an houfe wheretlthere was a good fire, for it was in the mid ItSof winter; where fora counfels thetn, thattj'lhey diould never make him beliefe'that theyicould tell him any thing, that did not knowwhat danger fhouid befal tbemfelves: But,(fays he, beeaufe you cannot teii me my for¬tune, I will tell you yours i For to-morrowfm the forenoon you fhall be v dipped for de¬ceivers, and in the afternoon be hanged forfetting the houfe on fire. The gypfies hear¬ing this fo drick fentence, made hafte to dry*4 THE MAD PRANKSthemfeives, and next morning ftole out oFtown, and never came any more there.CHAP. VIII.How Tom fold bis mother's Trevet, and cozen*ed an Aquavit# Man that fold bat water.IN a winter night, coming home very late,Tom Tram fell with his arms before him,- and at therlaft run his nofe againft a poll ;what, quoth Tom, is my nofe longer thanmy arms ? And afterwards he dropped intoa well that was in the yard, and crying out,help, help, all is not well that is in the well,the neighbours -came and pulled him out,and he dropp’d like a pig that h? d beenroafted on a {’pit; but he was then in a coldcondition, fo he went to bed, and coveredhimfelf; but before morning, having a foofe-nefs in his belly, Tom had beihit the lheets;and when Tome, by the quick feent of theirnofes, had difeovered the ’fault, he toldthem, it was nothing but the clear mud ofthe well that came away from him ; and if he,died of that ficknefs, he would be buried bytorch-light, becaufe none fhould, fee him goito his grave. Juft as he had fo faid, in_camea hot water man, of whom he requefted togive him a Aip ; which having tailed, hefeigned him'to be in a hot fever, and rofeup in his clothes, ran away with the aqua-vitas man’s bottle of hot water, and tookhis mother’s trevot, and fold it for a longOF TOM TRAM. .i.si! hawking pole, and a falconer’s whichi being tied to his fide, and having drank uplii the poor man’s hot water, he came reelingill home with an owl upon his fift, faying, Itill is gentlemandike to be betwixt hawk and) buzzard; and he told the aquavits man,| that he had fent the trevot with three legs^; to the next town to fill your bottles again.CHAP. IX.•J '!s Of Tom Tram's wooing Cicily Summers, theneat Wench of the Weji.) ✓'"IICILY Summers, whofe nofe was thenas fair as the midnight fun, whichfhined as bright as Saconthine, was belovedof young Tom Tram; and a fad ftory totell, he grew not worth the bread he eat,| through pining away for her love. Tomp was loth to fpeak but dill whidled; At lad,i |jj when Cicily made no anfwer, he burft outiii in thu^: O Cicily Summers, if I Tom Tram,i| fon of mother Winter, and thou Cicily Sum-| yners, be joined together what a quarter fhailif we keep, as big as three half years ; befides,H Cicily Summers, when thou fcoldeft, then1 Winter fhall prefently cool thy heat; andwhen we walk on the ftreet they'll fay, yon-'der goes Summer and Winter; and forchildren, we fhall beget every year a generationof Almanacks. So they went to the parfonp and were married ; but they fell owt fo ex-.11 tremely, that fhe fcolded all the fummer15 THE MAH FRATSTESfeafon; and Tem he drank good ale, ^ri&told old tales all the winter time, and f©they could never -but thrive all the year thro’.Tom lived by good ale, and his wife by eat¬ing oatmeal: and when Tom went to bedrunk in the morning, die put oatmeal inthe ale, and made caudle with muftard in-itead of eggs, which bir Tom fo by the nofe,that it*would run water; but the next dayie would be drunk again.C H A P. X.liozu Tom ufed a ftvging man of a CathedralChurch in the Wejt.ONCE there was a cfthedral fir.gtng man,that had .very much anger’d Tom,and had made fongs and jefts on him; where¬upon Tom'got upon his back’an ox-hide,with the horns fet upon his head, and fo layin a hedge bottom, waiting till the fmgingnan came by, who he was fure mu ft pafs\ that way : at iaft came the finging man, upftarted Tom out of the hedge bottom in hisox-hide, and followed him: the fmgingman cried out, the devil! the devil! No,quoth Tom, I am the ghoft of goodmanJohnfon, living hard by the church ftile,unto whofe houfe ye came and fung catches,ond owes me Five Pounds for ale, thereforeappoint me a day when ye will bring me my |money hither, or elfe I will haunt thee ftili. jjThe Tinging man promifed that day fe’enight* LOF TOM TRAM. 17: and accordingly he did ; and Toni madehimfelf brave clothes with the money, and1 fweethearts came about him as bees do about1! a honey pot; hut Tom wore a rope in hisI pocket and being alked if he tfould marr^,1 he weald pull it out, and laugh, faying,! 1 have broken my diins already, and will bei wifer hereafter; for 1 'am an old colt, and1 now may have as much wit as a horfe.CHAP XI.hs hired himfelf to the jujiice, and whatpranks he played while with him.iTHE juflicc at this time being without aman, and finding Tom to be a livelyfellow, alking him, if he would ferve him.Yes, quoth Tom, for I am a great manymiles from the country. As foon as theyhad agreed for wages, Tom was immediate¬ly entertained: But he had not liv'd long,there before the juflice and his family was(obliged to go to London, leaving no bodyhat home but i'om. Now in the juftices ab-fence, an officer brought a lufly young wo¬man and a little man with a complaint; fothey knocked at the door, and Torn let themin; then placing himfelf in his mafeer s chair,e alked the woman what ihe had' to fay,who told him that tbc man whom fhe hadbrought before him had lain with her bypforce. Adzooks, quoth Tom, is k poffiblethat fuch a little ieilow as this could forceAX!hi8 THE MAD PRANKSAich a ftrapfung dame as you,1 Alas ! Sir3faid (he, although he is little he is ftrong.^ ell, little whippet-fnapper, quoth Tom,ti’hat do yoy fay to this; He replied, Likeyour worfhip it is falfe what (he fays; thetruth it this: I have bee:i at fea, arid coin*ing afhore, where I received my pay, I metwith this woman, and agreed with her forhalf a crown, and when it was over, i pull’dout my purfe to pay her hcneflly what I hadagreed for; but (he feeing that 1 had a con-fiderable fum of money, contrary to ourbargain, would force me to give her ten i(hillings, ^nd becaufe I would not, (he hasbrought me before your worfhip. Have yougot that purfe of money ? quoth Tom : Yes,Sir, faid the feaman. Give it into my handLaid Torti. He receives it, and turning tothe woman, faid, Here take it and get aboutyour bufmefs. She replied, 1 thank your'worlhip, you are an honed good man, andhave done me juftice. The little feaman themean while wrung his hands and bitterly criedout, ? am ruined, for it is every penny Ihad in the world. Well, quoth Tom, hadeafter her, and take it from her again. Ac¬cording to Tom's order he runs after her*,and when he came after her, h faid, I mud„and will have my purfe again; 1 hen die fell,about his ears and cuft him ; nay, this did.not fatisfy her, but (he dragged him backagain to Tom, who fat as judice, and toldfflhim, that the fellow followed her for the!*IOF TOM TRAM, 19urfe, which he in juftice gave her. Wei!,aid Tom, and has he got it? No, Lid fh.yjl think not, before he fhonki take ir froin: me, Fd tear out both his eyes. Let me feeit again, fays Tom: She1 gives'it to him.Is all the money in it? quoth he. Yes, Sir,. hid fhe, every penny. Why then, faid he,3 here little whipper-fnapper, take your purfet again; and as for you, Mrs. Impudence,: had you defended your honelly as well as’ you did the money, I never had been trou-. pled with this complaint. Here, Mr. Con-iliable, give her an hundred lalhes at the1 town’s whipping-poft: which was accord*I mgly done, and Tom was applauded fot his.f tuft proceedings.SEVERALMERRY TALES.TALE I.ll ' ” ' *$)f a Scholar and a Tap/lcr on a Winter night*j| I '1HE tapfter faid, Sir, will you go to bed.I, X Flo, quoth thefcholar, there are thieves(jibroad, and would not willingly be takenmapping. So the tapfler left him, and be-ao - MERRY TALES.in£ gone, in came a fpirit into thewith his head under his arm, fo that her.durfl not (tir, but cried out. Help! htlp !fire! thieves! thieves. So when they oh thehoufe came to him they alked him, whatwas the matter! Oh, quoth he, the deyi^•was here, and i’poke to me with his heatiunder his arm; but^ now 1 will go to bed,aud if He comes again, I will fend him .to-the tapfter to help him to make falTe reckon*ings: It being a cold night, quoth he, I willfiril put fire to toe, that is, 1 will warm mytoes by the fire, then I’U go to-b d. Andfo he did, and a great reckoning the nextmorning put the fcholar out of his jeft, fay¬ing, that was in earned made too large a.. reckoning, he being but poor Sir John ofOxford,T A L E il. 'ONE that going to a wedding had agreat occafion to lintrufs a point; whereup-* on he went under a hedge, but the placenot pleafing him, he v/ent under a hayftackand then into a faw-pit, and afterwards in¬to a hog-i’tye, where he did his bufinefs.New the other clowns that were with him*atk^d him if he had done his talk and days' labour; Yes, quoth he, 1 have flrit thteefiiillings in nine-pences, go and fetch them;they are more than a day’s labour will cometo. So they went to < the wedding houfe*MERRY TALES. 21md when they, came thither, they werejrtaking a reckoning for the. fidler, and everyme gave what he lifted. Oh, quoth one ofhem, if you want money to make up theteckoning, here is one that can fhite threehillings in nine-pences. If he can, quothhe guefts, let him bring them hither in hisnouth, for 1 fear they are of fo foft a metal,hat they will melt in fpite of his teeth. Soliter they had danced a while, a fart wasCt; whereupon fays one, this fart was full1 barged, for it yielded a large vent $ mean-ng his Ihirt.JT A L E HI.DOWN in the weft country a certainconceited fellow had a great nofe; fo acountry-man by him with a fack of corn,lioftled him, faying, your nofe ftands in myway; whereupon the other fellow with thegreat nofe, took his nofe in his hand, andIneld it to the other fide, faying, A pore on;.ihee, go and be hanged.TALE IV.i ONCE there was a company of gypfiesthat came to a country fellow on, the high¬way, and would needs t i’ him his fortune:imongft other things, they bad him aflurefimfelf his ivorft misfortunes were naft, andhat. he would hot be troubled with croffcsis he had been: fo coining home* and hav-—  22 MERRY TALES,ing fold the cow at the marker, he look’din his purfe for the money, thinking to havetold it to his wife; but he found not fcmuch as one crofs in his purfe; whereuponhe remembered the words of the gypfies andlaid, that the gypfies had faid true that hefhould not be troubhd with crofles, and thatthey had picked his pocket, and left not apenny in his purfe. Whereupon his wifebailed and cudgelled him fo foundiy, that|he began to perceive that a man that had alcurfed wife ihould never be without a crofs.tho’ he had never a penny in his purfe; andbecaufe it was winter-time, he fat a whileby the fire-fide, and after went to bed fup-perlefs and pennylefs.TALE V.A Farmer’s wife in the weft had threepjgs, which ihc loved exceedingly well, andfed them with good butter-milk and whey;,but they would come running into the houfeand 'befoul the rooms: whereupon ihe re-folved to fell them at the market, becaufethey were better fed than taught, but after-|wards they were ftolen away from her;|whereupon ihe fuppofed they were driven up•to London to learp manners ; but faid iheTthey were too old to learn to. turn the fpit:in Barholomew fair, and therefore believedibme butchers had ftoie them away.Her cock had a piece of cloth fewen aboutMERRY TALES. 23thun, and was left upon the perch, but after-iwards flolen; whereupon ihe faid, that ha*.cock was turned fcho’ar in a black gown;and fo (he went to Oxford to,a conjurer, toknow what was become cf her pigs and hericock. The fcholar fmileu* and told her,Jtne three pigs wrere blown home, and thecock was made a batcheior of arts in one ofthe colleges. I thought fo, faid the woman,; for fure batchelorc of arts are very cdxcombs-TALE VLONE in the country having bought atloak of one that Hole it, or made it byflight of hand, he was challenged for it; -and being troubled in mind, alked a frie.idpf his, a very witty fellow in the parifh.How he might come' off? His friend rep ied,fie would tell him for a quart of fnlk. Soto the tavern they went, and having drunk11 pint, he defired to know how he mightIprae olf ? When we have drunk the otheripint of fack, quoth his friend. I’ll teli youlow you may come off. The quart beingdrunk off, he replied, he would not tell him1 ill they were in the ftreet. So going out of:>he tavern. Do you fee, quoth he, yonderItollour feller’s fhop, pointing as it were,jnth his finger; do nut buy a rope therend hang thyfdf with it, and I warrant thee)hou lhalt come oft^ and never be troubled(9r that matter.24 ' ' MERRY TALESTALE VIIA Country Clergyman meeting a neigh-,b'our who never Vune to church, althoughan old fellow of about fifty, he gave himfome reproof on that account, and afked fhim if he never read at home ? No, replied ;the clown, 1 cannot read. 1 dare fay, jfaid the parfon, you don’t know who maieiyou ? Not I, in troth, cried the coun-lVy man. A little boy coming-, by at the-fame time. Who made you child? faid the?parfon, God Sir, faid the boy—Why Icoklyou there, quoth the Clergyman, are yoaf- not alhamed to hear a child of five or fiilyears old, tell me who made him, when you"that are fo old a man, cannot!—Ah! faid;the country man, it is no wonder that hefhould remember; he was made but t’otherday, and it is a long while mealier fince Twas madFINIS.■O'G L A S G O W,Printed by J. & M. ROBERTSON, Saltmarkm o c c c II.