ICl LASCIOW:i iOF SCOtLiPRINTED FOR THE ROOKSElXEtt^thePLANT OF RENOWN:TWO S E lOI 0 V S,rnKACHKD liV THEREV. EBKNEZER ERSKINE,T..VIK MINISTER OK THE COS!-; I. IN ST1RI.IXO.:/"!■,Mi! 10. v i o ir h :i i o //t i..i/j 's;i '* > 1/ ia;{ /ahTHEPLANT OF RENOWN.SERMON I.Ezekiel, xxxiv. 29.1 ud I will raise up for them a Plant of Renown,i;' we cast our eyes back upon the foregoing partthis chapter, we shall find a very melancholy(iifene casting up ; we shall find the flock and her¬bage of God scattered, robbed and peeled by theiivil and ecclesiastical rulers that were in being inOat day ; a day much like to the day wherein weve: the ruin of the church of Christ in all agesliid periods of the world, has been owing to com-tsnations betwixt corrupt churchmen, and corruptulatesmen ; and so you will find it. In the preced-g part of this chapter there is a high chargewrought in against the Shepherds of Israel, and t>qrrible and awful threatening denounced by thoirfeat and chief shepherd, against them, for- the badneatment that the flock of Christ had met with in' jeir hands : However the sheep of Christ may beeeced, and scattered, and spoiled, yet the Lorduljoke on them ; and many great and precious pro-uses are made for their encouragement in that1 dl day ; you may read them at your own leisure,r I must not stay upon them just now. But4among all the rest of the promises that are madeChrist is the chief; Christ is the To-look of thchurch, whatever trouble she be in. In the 7tchapter of Isaiah, the church had a trembling heartGod’s Israel was shaken as ever you saw the leaveof the wood shaken by the wind, by reason of twKings combining against them : Well, the Lontells them, “ A Virgin shall conceive and bear ;Son, and call his name Immanuel." Kut, might nothe church say, what is that to us ? What encouragement doth this afford in the present distressWhy, the Messiah is to come of the tribe of Judaland the family of David ; and therefore that trilxand family must be preserved, in order to tinaccomplishment of that promise. Whatever disitance of time, suppose hundreds or thousands o.years, may intervene before the actual coming othe Messiah ; yet the promise of his coming, as uis the ground of your faith for eternal salvation, soit is a security for the present, that the enemjshall not prevail, to the total ruin of Judah anrthe royal family of David. In all the distresses oithe church, Christ is always presented to her, inthe promise, as the object of her faith, and theground of her consolation ; and accordingly, “ Theylooked to him,” in the promise, “ and were light¬ened ; and their faces were not ashamed.” He ishere promised under the notion of God's Servantand, in the words of the text, he is promised as aItenowned Plant, that was to rise in the fulness oftime. And, blessed be God, he has sprung up,and is in heaven already, and has overtopt all hisenemies, and all his enemies shall be his foot-stool.First, Here then, you have a comfortable promiseof the Messiah ; where, again, you may notice thepromiser : I, I icill raise up, d'c. It is a great /.,— Iindeed; it is Jkhovaii, in the person of theFather : It was he that in a peculiar manner,sent him ; “ God so loved the world, that he gaveIns only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth inhim should not perish, but have everlasting life.—in the fulness of time he sent forth his Son, madeof a woman, made under the law, to redeem themthat were under the law, that we might receivethe adoption of Sons.” God promised to sendhim, and accordingly he has actually fulfilled hispromise. Again,Secondly, We may notice the blessing promised,and that is, a Plant of lienoicn.—Christ gets a greatmany metaphorical names and descriptions inScripture :—Sometimes he is called a Rose, some¬times he is called a Sun, and sometimes he iscalled a Door ; sometimes he is called the Tree ofLife ; sometimes he is called one thing, and some¬times another; And he is content to bo calledany thing, to make himself known to us ; andhere he is called a Plant, and a Renowned, Plant;but more of this afterwards. But then.Thirdly, We have the production of this Plant,/ mill raise him vp. Hell will endeavour to keephim down ; the Devil and his Angels will endea¬vour to smother him, when lie sets his head aboveground : So we find Satan sends Herod, and Herodsends the Bloody Dragoons to murder him, whenhe came into the world : But let hell do its utmost,as it hath done in all ages, and is doing this day,to smother that plant, up it will be; I will raisehim up, and therefore he shall prosper. But thenagain.Fourthly, We may notice here, for whom, orfor what end, for whose use and benefit it is: Iwill raise up for th'in a Plaid of Renown. Who6these are, you will see by casting your eye on theformer part of this chapter; it is for the Lord’sflock, his oppressed heritage, that are borne downby wicked rulers, civil and ecclesiastic« I willveisc up for them a Plant of Renown, and he willbe their deliverer.The doctrine that naturally ariees from this first ;clause of the verse, is in short this, “ That Christ iis a Plant of Renown, of God’s raising up, for thebenefit and advantage of his people, or for their 'comfort and relief in all their distresses; he is aRenowned Plant of God’s raising up.”Now, in discoursing this doctrine, if time andstrength would allow, I might,jFYrs<, Premise a few things concerning thisblessed Plant.Secondly, I might enquire, why he is called aPlant of Renown ?Thirdly, Speak a little to the raising up of thisPlant.Fourthly, For whom he is raised up.Fifthly, For what end. And then.Lastly, Apply.As to the first of these, namely,First, To premise a few things concerning thisblessed Plant.First, I would have you to know what is hereattributed and ascribed to Christ: It is not to beunderstood absolutely of him as God, but officiallyas he is Mediator and Redeemer. Considering jhim absolutely as God, this cannot be properly jsaid of him, that he was raised up: for he is God !Cfi-equal and eo-essential with the Father; But Iviewing him as Mediator, he is a Plant, as it were jof God’s training. You will see from the context, Jfall that is said of Christ has a respect to him is a J7Mediator, that he was to be God’s Servant to dois work: In that consideration he is here called a:’lant, and a Plant of Renown. Hence, Zacharias,rhen speaking of him, has a phrase much to theame purpose ; “He hath raised up a Horn ofSalvation for us in the house of his servant David.”'■gam,i’l Secondly, Another thing I would have you toemark, is, That this Plant is but small and littlei the eyes of a blind world. He was little looked|pon when he sprung up in his Incarnation ; andhen he was here in a state of humiliation, menijpoked upon him “as a Root sprung up out of a dryiround; they saw no comeliness in him why hoaould be desired.” And to this day, though hee in a state of exaltation at the right hand of God,:et he is little thought of, and looked1 upon, by thenenerality of mankind, and the hearers of the[jospel; lie is despised and, rejected of men. Butmen, 'bouwon-n si ell • msl'i b®uwonoJII Thirdly, Another thing I w-ould have y«ra tomark, is, That however contemptible this Plantflf Renown is in the eyes of a blind world, yet hoii the tallest Plant in all God’s Lebanon, there isot the like of him in it, “ He is fairer than theChildren of men and, “ He is as the apple-treeinnong the trees of the wood,” If ever you saw,ijm, you will be ready to say so too, and with David,Pi Whom have I in heaven but thee band there isobne upon the earth that I desire besides thee.”flgaiu,Fourthly, Another thing I remark, is, That thisessed Plant of Renown, he was cut down in his!ath,.aud sprung up gloriously in his resurrection ;e sword of divine justice hewed down this Plantion Mount Calvary, but within three days heIk.sprung up again more glorious and more beauttand amiable than ever ; aiti “ He was declaredbe the Son of God with power, according toSpirit of holiness, by his resurrection fromdead.”Lastly, I would have you to remark, thatthe little plants in the garden are ingrafted inPlant of Renown: “ I am the Vine, ye arebranches; he that abideth in me. and I in hifthe same bringeth forth much fruit: For withmo ye can do nothing—I am a green fir tree, fflme is thy fruit found.” If you be not ingraftfirs, in this Plant, you will never grow ; andthe trees that are not. planted in him, they arebut weeds. There is a time coming when all tweeds will be plucked up, and therefore take he rthat you bo ingrafted in him by a faith of Go 1operation. So much for the first thing I propose 1The second thing was to shew, that he isRenowned Plant. Ho is renowned in heaven, aihe is renowned on earth, and will be so, For /name shall endure for ever, Psal. Ixxii. 17. O he 1renowned!For what, say you, is lie renowned ? I mighere enter upon a very large field ; 1 shall ont1tell you, * *1. That he is renowned in his Person The;was never the like of him! The two natures, Go 'and Man, are joined together in one, in him : Dfyou ever see that ? If you have not seen that, yu!iave not seen the Mysterv of Godliness : He is tlfis Mlmost renowned person in heaven ; but hoxtaxcel, God manifested in the flesh.—Then he is,2. Renowned for his Pedigree: IfTio can itdare his Generation ? Considering him as God«hi? et*mal generation from the Father cannot b9Jd. We can tell you he is the only begotten otle Father, but we cannot tell you the manner o., is generation ; it is a secret that God has drawni vail upon, and it is dangerous to venture into aarch of it: and they that have attempted it,[jive commonly been boged into Arian, Armin-n, and Sabellian errors. Considering him asi an, he is sprung of a race of ancient Kings, aijmous catalogue of them you read of in firstn Matthew.—And who can declare his generationJen as man? For he was born of a Virgin, andnceived by the overshadowing power of theighest. Then,'"o. He is renowned for his name.—“He hath a.me above every name that can be named,ihether in this world or that which is to come.”4. He is renowned for his Wisdom.—For, “ Alle treasures of wisdom and knowledge are inI.He is renowned for his Power.—For he isi 4 only the Wisdom of God, but the Power of God,is “ the Man of God’s right hand, even theof Man, whom he hath made strong for kim-f.”6. He is renowned for his Veracity and Fidelity,w, “ Faithfulness is the girdle of his loins/’Ifftve you got a word from him ? Depend upon it,: is a sicker word, it does not fail: The word ofA » Lord endures for ever, when heaven and earthJ all pass awray7. He is renowned for his Righteousness. For,He hath brought in an everlasting Righteous-ss, whereby the Law is magnified and madeincurable and by the imputation of which, thei lilty transgressors are acquitted: “He was madefor us, who knew no sin, that we might be10made the Righteousness of God in him That 1*his Name, The Lord our Righteousness. h8 He is renowned for his fulness.—For, “ Ajjitthe fulness of the Godhead dwells bodily in him :|iiHe is full of grace and tmth ; full of all create?;;and uncreated excellencies.9. He is renowned for his Love.—What bulove brought him out of the bosom of the Fat he!to this lower world* What but love made him la.down his life for his people ?10. lie is renowned for his Liberality. He haia full hand and a free heart, as we use to say ; hgives without money, and lie invites all to com:and share of his fulness.11. He is renowned for his Constancy. HeJesus Christ, the same to-day, yesterday and foever.” The best of men, will fail us when we trusthem ; they w’ill run like splinters into our handswhen we lean upon them: But, sirs, you will fin*Christ alw-ays the same, to-day, yesterday and foiever. And then,12. He is renowned for nis Authority and DoIt is great, and extends far and wide!t!mmion, .. a—  ; sa,whether in heaven above, or in the earth beneath iAnd his dominion reaches “ from sea to sea, am ifrom the river unto the ends of the earth:” Anorall the kihgs of the earth are but his vassalsThus, I say, Christ in every respect is renowned!‘ But here, to keep by the phraseology of the textHe is a renowned Plant: Wherein is he renowned!First, I say ho is renowned for his Antiquity• ‘ 1 was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was,” &c. All the plantsin the higher and lower gardens of God, they arebut just upstarts in comparison of him: Angel-1aad Arch-angels, and the greatest Seraphims arei11but of yesterday, in comparison of this Plant. Hei renowned for his Antiquity, for he is, “ Theicient of days, and the Everlasting Father,”aiah, 9th chapter.N.B.—Mere he was desired to conclude his Dis¬course, in respect the Work in the Church icasover, and that he might give way to anotherMinister that was to preach the Evening Ser¬mon.SERMON II.Ezekiel, xxxiv. 29.i And I will raise up for them a Plant of Renown.had occasion, upon a solemnity of this nature,lot long ago, to enter upon these words, but hadlot time to go far into the import of them. After’ had traced the connection of the words a little, Iook them up in the few following particulars.1. We have here a great blessing promised untohe church ; .and that is none other than Christ,mder the notion of a Prince, and A Plant of Re¬own.2. We have the Party by whom this promise iside, in the pronoun /,—I Jehovah, the EternalijjrOD, I will raise up for them a Plant of Renown.12Wo have the way how this 1‘lcmt of IImouiiis raised ; And I >c‘/U. roue him up. I that am thegreat Husbandman of the vineyard, I u iU raise upfor them, &c. Then,4. I noticed the persons to whom the promise ismade, l will raise up for them ; that is, for hisChurch, for his people that are brought into a verylow condition ; as you will see by reading the pre¬ceding part of the chapter. The flock of Christwere scattered by the shepherds of Israel; theywere torn, they were devoured, and under manifoldtrials ; Well, what will the Lord do for his flock inthat condition ? He says, I will raise up for thema Plant of Menoien, and they shall hunger no more.The observation is much the same with thewords themselves, namely, “ that our Lord JesusChrist is a Plant of Renown of his Father’s up¬bringing:” / will raise up for them a Plant ofBenown. In prosecution of this doctrine, I pro¬posed to observe the order and method following.First, To premise a few things concerning thisblessed Plant.Secondly, To shew that indeed he is a Plant ofPenmen. And then.Thirdly, To speak a little concerning the raisingup of this Plant.Fourthly, For whom he is raised up.Fifthly, For what good, or for what benefit andadvantage he is raised up. And,Lastly, To apply the whole.As to the first, 1 spoke to it, and premised a fewthings concerning this blessed Plant; therefore 1shall not stay to resume what was said on thatHead. I likewise entered upon the second, andshewed that Christ is A Plant of Renown in severalrespects: 1 mentioned eleven or twelve particular?• I11I<1[■ »''I■i1HnTy13wherein Christ is renowned, but I shall not resumethese neither: 1 shall only tell you a few thingswherein this blessed Plant is renowned.1. In the first place, this blessed Plant, he isrenowned for his antiquity. There are manyother plants in God’s garden, as angels, seraphims,cherubims, saints militant and triumphant, theyare all but upstarts in comparison of him ; for hewas set up before ever the earth was. You willsee that one name of this Plant of Renown is, TheEverlasting Father, or, “ The Father of Eternity,”as it may be rendered.2. As he is renowned for his antiquity, so forhis Beauty: he is the most beautiful Plant in allthe garden of God ; “I am the Rose of Sharon,and the Lily of the valleys.—He is the apple-treeamong the trees of the wood.” He is renowned Isay, for his beauty and his glory ; for the glory ofa God is in him. Is there any glory in his eternalFather? Why, that glory shines in our Immanuel,in the very brightness of it, Heb. i. 3. “ He is thebrightness of the Father’s glory, and the expressimage of his person.” Now, sirs, if ever your eyeswere opened by the Spirit of God, to take up theglory of this Plant, his glory has just dazzled yourvery eyes ! You that never saw any glory in him,you never saw him to this very day: Pray thatthe light of the glory of God, in the face of JesusChrist, may yet shine into your hearts. It wouldmake a heartsome Sacrament, if this Plant weredisplayed in his glory among us. Sirs, have youcome to see him in his glory ? 0 give God no resttill he make a discovery of himself to vour souls.Then,3. tie is renowned for his verdure, for his perpetual greenness. Other plants are fading; you14and I are fading plant? ; “ All fle?h is gras?, andall the goodliness thereof i? as the flower of theheld:” He is a Tree ever green, he never fades',summer nor winter, and shall he ever a greenPlant to the Saints as it were to eternity ! Whenmillions of ages, yea, myriads of ages are past inheaven, he will he as fresh and green to the be¬liever, as when he first saw him, or the first mo¬ment the saint entered glory : therefore it is, thatthe songs of the redeemed in glory are always new ;and throughout eternity, will be new, because theywill constantly see matter of a new song; and themore they see, they will wonder the more at himthroughout eternity! Again,4. This Plant is renowned not only for hisverdure, but for his virtue. We read, Rev. xxii.“ That the leaves of the Tree of Life were for thehealing of the nations.” That Tree of Life is thevery same with this Plant of Renown ; the leavesof this Plant are for the healing of the nations ;and we that are ministers are come this day toscatter the leaves of this Tree of Life, of this Phutof Renown ; try if you can get a leaf of it appliedand set home upon your souls. Depend upon it,there is virtue in every word of his. Sirs, minglefaith with a word, and you will find that it willliave the same efficacy with you as it had withthe poor woman with the bloody issue, that washealed with a touch of the hem of his garment,who had spent all her living on doctors. O see ifyou can find him! I assure you he is hero ; he isbehind the door of every man’s heart: “ Behold Istand (says he,) at the door and knock! If anyman hear my voice, and open the door, I willcome in to him, and sup with him, and he withmo.” And 0 let him in ! there is virtue in him15for curing you all, though there were ten thousandmillions of you more than there are ; there isvirtue in him for healing every one of you. Rutthen,5. This blessed Plant is not only renowned forIns virtue, but likewise for his fertility. He isnot a barren Plant; he would not be renowned ifhe were barren : He brings forth all manner offruit every month ; yea, I may add, every day,every moment. You read in Rev. sxii. of theTree of Life that brings forth twelve manner offruits every month ; that is to say, he brings forthall fruit that is necessary for a poor soul: whateverthy soul stands in need of, is to be found in him ;sec then and gather, see if you can gather some ofit. There is the fruit of his incarnation ; there isthe fruit of his death ; there is the fruit of hisresurrection ; there is the fruit of his ascension ;there is the fruit of his intercession, and sitting atthe right hand of God ; there is the fruit of hisprophetic office ; there is the fruit of his priestlyoffice; there is the fruit of his kingly office ;there is the fruit of his appearing within thevail; there is the fruit of what he did withoutthe vail, and without the camp. 0 what fruit ishere! Here is wisdom for fools; here is justificationfor the condemned soul ; here is sanctification forthe polluted soul, and clothing for the naked;riches for the poor, bread for the hungry, drink forthe thirsty. All manner of fruit is here, and we aretrying, sirs, to shake the Tree of Life among you ;and blessed be God, they may be gathered : Osirs! they are dropping among you ; O gather,gather, for salvation is in every word that dropsfrom him ; for his words are the words of eternallife. But, in thet». Place, this blessed Plant is renowned for hisscent and pleasant savour. 0 sirs! there is sucha blessed savour in this Plant of Renown, as hascast a perfume through all the Paradise above !He has cast a perfume through the church militant,which in Isaiah v. is called God's vineyard. 0sirs! do you find any thing of the scent of thisPlant ? 1 can tell you, if ever you have been madeto know him, it will be so : “because of the savourof thy good ointment, thy name is as ointmentpoured forth, therefore do the Virgins love thee.'*The believer he finds a scent about him, he drawsa savour from him. What is the deisgn of usministers, but to cast abroad his scent, and it is bythis we win souls ; and they that cast out and dropthe Plant of Renown out of their sermons, nowonder their sermons stink, and they shall stinkto eternity, that throw' Christ out of theirsermons. The great business of ministers isto cast forth the scent of Christ to the people.I shall read you a word to this purpose, in 2Cor. ii. 14,—16, “ Now, thanks be unto God,which always causeth us to triumph in Christ.”The apostle triumphs in him, and all other honestministers will triumph in him too; and all Christiansthat know' him, triumph in him. “ And makethmanifest the savour of his knowledge by us inevery place. For we are unto God a sweet savourin Christ, in them that are saved, and in them thatperish. To the one we are the savour of deathunto death ; and to the other, the savour of life untolife ; and who is sufficient for these things 1” Who isable to tell the sweet savour that is in him ? Again,7. This blessed plant in my text, is not only re¬nowned for his savour, but likewise for his shadow.Song, i, 6. “ I sat down under bis shadow with great17delightthe shadow of the Plant of Renown. Yonare all sitting there or standing, but are you sittingunder the Plant of Renown? Jonah's gourd did himservice against the scorching heat of the sun, thatwas like to take away his life ; but alas! that soonfailed him, for God sent a worm and smote it thatit withered ; and the worm of death will soonsmite and wither you and me : 0 get in under theshadow of this Plant of Renown, and ye are securedagainst death and vindictive wrath for ever. Getin under his shadow; the shadow of his inter¬cession,—the shadow of his power,—the shadow ofhis providence,—the shadow of his faithfulness :0 sit under his shadow, and you will find shelterthere against all deadly ; whatever blasts come,you will find safety there. Would you be shadowedfrom the king of terrors ? Death is a terror to many,O if you be shadowed against the awful terrors ofdeath and God’s vengeance, get in under thisshadow, and you are safe.8. This Plant is renowned for his stature. Heis a high Plant, he is a tall Plant: you see theheavens above you, but they are but creeping thingsin comparison of him ; for this glorious Plant is.The hifjh and lofty One that inhabits eternity. Youcan never see his height; your eye will look high,and your thought will reach higher, but neitheryour eye nor thought will reach unto him ; he istaller than all the cedars in the Lebanon of God:“ Eye hath not seen, nor hath ear heard, neitherhath it entered into the heart of man,” to think ofthe height and glory of this Plant of Renown 'AndLastly, This Plant is renowned not only for hisstature, but for his extent also : he is a broadPlant, be was planted in the first promise in Par*18adise; he spread through the old testament charoh ;he came the length of filling the land of Judea ;and, at length, this Plant has spread itself amongus: And 0 that I could open the leaves of thisPlant to take you in ; he is a broad Plant, he willserve you all. We read of the Tree of Life beingon every side of the river: there is a great riverbetwixt us and heaven, and that is death ; and -weare all running into this river of death. As onewell observes on the place, this Tree is in themiddle of the river ; he is oh this side of time, andhe is on that side of time. Now, this Plant is onboth sides of the river ; though you were going tothe wastes of America, you will find him there aswell as here, if you have but the art of improvinghim. And this Plant will spread himself throughall kingdoms, “ The earth shall be filled with theknowledge of the Lord, just as the waters coverthe sea.” He will not only fill the earth, but thewhole heavens throughout eternity ! 0 but he isa broad Plant, that will extend himself both toheaven and earth ! And this shall serve for thesecond thing proposed, namely, To show that thisPlant is indeed a most Renowned Plant.The third thing I proposed in the prosecution ofthis doctrine, was, concerning the raising or up¬bringing of this Plant. You see it is no otherthan the Great Goo, that raised up this Plant.I find the Great JkhOvah glorying in his skilland wisdom in the raising up of this Plant for theuse of the church. In Psalm Ixxxix. 19. says theLord, “ I have laid help upon one that is mighty ;I have exalted one chosen out of the people ; 1have, raised up David my servant; with my holyoil have I anointed him.” Here he glories in it,that lie had raised up this glorious Plant of Renown.19■I will tell you a few things with reference to the| raising up of this blessed Plant.1. He was raised up in the counsel of God’s| peace from eternity. The Trinity sat in councili anent the upbringing of him; “ The counsel ofI peace was between them both,” Zech. vi. 13. Thei Father and the Son agreed upon it, that in thefulness of time the Son should come into the. world.2. He was raised up in the first promise to Adam,; and Eve. Till this Plant was discovered to them,they were like to run distracted: And indeed, sirs,i if Christies.? sinners saw where they were, and thei wrath of God that is hanging over their heads,k they would be ready to run distracted, till a reve¬lation of Christ was made to them. All the pro¬mises, all the prophecies, all the types, and all the■ doctrines of the old testament, they were thej gradual springing? of this Plant: but it was underI ground until,3. His actual manifestation in the flesh, when,I in the fulness of time he appeared : “ In the fili¬al ness of time, God sent forth his Son, made of a(I woman, &c.”4. This Plant was raised up even in his deathr. and resurrection, by which he was declared to bei the Son of God with power, by the spirit of holi-ii ness. And,Lastly, This Plant of Renown will bo raised upin the songs of the redeemed through endless eter-i nity. Thus you see, Christ is a Plant of Renown,1 And what way he is raised up.The next tiling I proposed was, for whom is itthat this Plant is raised up ? 0 ! may some poorthing say, Was he ever raised up for me ? 1 tellyou, sirs, he was never raised up for the fallenangels; “ For he took not on him the nature ofangeli, but be took on him the seed of Abraham.’i< )ur nature was highly honoured at first, but it sooi»|sunk below the beast that perisheth ; but thesecond Adam took our nature upon him, and raisedit to a higher dignity than the very angels ; for towhich of the angels did this honour appertain, to beunited to the eternal Son of God ? So that, I say,this Plant of Renown is raised up for mankind-sinners, not for angel-kind sinners ; and everymankind-sinner that hears tell of him, they shouldlay claim to him, as in Isaiah, ix. 6., “ To us aSon is given, to us this Child is born ; and thegovernment shall be upon his shoulder : And hisname shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, theMighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Princeof Peace.” To us he is given, unto us he is born.I thought to have gone through what I designedon this subject, but time will not allow. TheLord bless his word.A DYING CHRISTIAN’S PRAYER.“ Receive my spirit," was toe prayer of Stephento Jesus Christ, to receive his departing soul; and,brethren, I think you will feel in a dying hour,that your departing soul needs a Divine Saviour.You have one in Jesus Christ. You may call upouhim then, even as now. His ear will not be heavy,though y&urs may, when death is sealing up yourfaculties. His eye will not have lost its power ofgazing affectionately on you, when yours is becom¬ing dim and closed. His hand will not be shor¬tened, in the hour when yours will have become21tremulous aud feeble. But lift up the baud, theheart, the eye, the soul, in prayer to him then,and you will find him a very near and present helpin that your time of trouble.Brethren, a Christian should die praying. Othermen die in different ways, according to their charac¬ter and temper. Julius Cesar died adjustinghis robes, that he might fall gracefully. Voltaire,with mingled imprecations and supplications;Paine, with shrieks of agonizing remorse. Multi¬tudes die with sullenness, some with blasphemiesfaltering on their tongue. But, brethren, thehumble Christian would die praying. Well saysthe poet:“ iVayer is ilie Christian’s vital breath,The Christian’s native air;IIis watch-word at the cates of death,He enters heaven with prayer!"But, observe for what Stepnen prayed. “ LordJesus receive my spirit!” This is the prayer offaith, commending the immortal spirit to thecovenant care of Jesus. The spirit does not diewith the body. None but God, who gave, cantake away the soul’s existence, and he has declaredthat he never will. Would that bad men wouldthink on that! You cannot get rid of your soul’sexistence : you cannot cease to be : you may wishit; though the wish is monstrous and unnatural.But there is no annihilation for any soul of man.Oh, come to our Saviour! give him your guiltysoul, to be justified through his atonement, washedin his blood, regenerated by his Spirit. Make tohim now that surrender of your soul, for which hecalls. Renew this happy self-dedication everyday, very especially every Sabbath, and mostsolemnly, from time to time at the Lord’s Supper.And then, when you come to die, it will only be,22to do once more, what you have so often done informer days,—again to commend your soul veryhumbly, believingly, and affectionately, under thefaithful care of Jesus Christ.THE HOUSE OF GOD.The church was pleasantly situated on a risingbank, at the foot of a considerable hill. It wassurrounded by trees, and had a rural retired appear¬ance. In every direction the roads that led tothis house of God, possessed distinct but interestingfeatures. One of them ascended between severalrural cottages from the sea-shore, which adjoinedthe lower part of the village-street. Anotherwinded round the curved sides of the adjacent hill,and was adorned, both above and below, withnumerous sheep feeding on the herbage of thedown. A third road led to the church by a gentlyrising approach, between high banks, covered withyoung trees, bushes, ivy, hedge-plants, and wildflowers.—From a point of land, which commandeda view of all these several avenues, I used some¬times, for a while, to -watch my congregation grad¬ually assembling together at the hour of Sabbathworship. They were in some directions visible fora considerable distance. Gratifying associationsof thought would form in my mind, as I contem¬plated their approach and successive arrival withinthe precincts of the house of prayer.—One day asI was thus occupied, during a short intervalprevious to the hour of divine service, I reflectedon the joy, which David experienced at the timehe exclaimed, “ I was glad when they said unto23me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Ourfeet shall stand within thy gates, 0 Jerusalem.Jerusalem is built as a city that is compact to¬gether ; whither the tribes go up, the tribes of theLord, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanksunto the name of the Lord.” I was led to reflectupon the various blessings, connected with theestablishment of public worship. “ How manyimmortal souls are now gathering together to per¬form the all-important work of prayer and praise—to hear the word of God—to feed upon the breadof life ! They are leaving their respective dwell¬ings, and will soon be united together in the houseof prayer.” How beautifully does this representthe effect produced by the voice of the “GoodShepherd,” calling his sheep from every part ofthe wilderness into his fold! As those fields, hills,and lanes, are now covered with men, women, andchildren, in various directions, drawing nearer toeach other, and to the object of their journey’s end ;even so, “ many shall come from the east, andfrom the west, and from the north, and from thesouth, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God.”Who can rightly appreciate the value of such hoursas these ?—hours spent in learning the way of holypleasantness, and the paths of heavenly peace—hours devoted to the service of God, and of souls ;in warning the sinner to flee from wrath to come ;in teaching the ignorant how to live and die; inpreaching the gospel to the poor; in healing thebroken-hearted ; in declaring “ deliverance to thecaptives, and recovering of sight to the blind.”“ Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound ;they shall walk, 0 Lord, in the light of thy coun¬tenance. In thy name shall they rejoice all theday, and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted.’24This train of reflection, at intervals, occurred powerfully to my feelings, as I viewed that very congregation assembled together in the house of God.whose steps, in their approach to it, I had watchedwith prayerful emotions.—“ Here the rich andpoor met together,” in mutual acknowledgementthat “the Lord is the maker of them all,” andthat all are alike dependent creatures, looking upto one common Father to supply their wants, bothtemporal and spiritual.—Again, likewise, shallthey meet together in the grave, that undistinguish¬ing receptacle of the opulent and the needy.—Andonce more, at the judgment-seat of Christ, shallthe rich and poor meet together, that “ every onemay receive the things done in his body, accordingto that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. "How closely connected in the history of man, arethese three periods of a general meeting togetherThe house of prayer—the house appointed for allliving—and the house not made with hands eternEuin the heavens.—May we never separate theseideas from each other, but retain them in a sacredand profitable union! So shall our worshippingassemblies on earth be representative of the generalassembly and chuicb of the first-born, which arewritten in heavenrms.