THELIFEOF.RICHARD TURPIN,A MOST NOTORIOUSHIGHWAYMAN.GIVING A PARTICULAR ACCOUNT OF ALL HISDaring RobberiesAnd Burglaries.His broiling a woman to make her discover Jierperty—Robbing a wealthy farmer at Charlton.—Robbery and brutal conduct to Mr. LawrenceMr. Francis, and numerous others Rewards fohis apprehension—His disguises to evade beintaken.—Robberies in company with King thHighwayman in Eppingforest.-r-Shooting the Ranger’s man near their cave—His escape from th<:.Butcher, likewise from Mr. Ives the King’s huntswan, who pursued him with blood-hounds.—Hiapprehension, and committal to York Castle,Trial, Execution,BURIAL, $c.FALKIRK:FRINTED FOR THE EOOlCStl.l RRS,by T. Johnslon.THELIFEOFRICHARD TURPIN.ICHARD TURPIN was bom at Hampstead,, in Essex, where It is fcitl ier followed the occu¬pation of a Butcher, with a fair reputation ; and af¬ter being the usual time at school, he was appren¬ticed to a Butcher in Whitechaple, but did notserve out his time, for he was discharged, for thebrutality, and egregious imprbprety of his conduct,which was much increased by the improper indul¬gence of his parents, in supplying hkn with money,which enabled him to cut a dash round the town|among the blades of the road and turf, whose com¬pany he affected to keep.His friends, thinking that marriage, and a settle¬ment in life, would reclaim him, persuaded him to' marry Hester Palmer, a young woman of good' family, but he had not long been married, beforelie again returned to vice, and became acquaintedwith a gang of theives, whose depredations alarmedthe whole county of Essex, and the neighbourhoodef London. His share of the spoil was not suffici¬ent, it appears, to support his extravagance, for heoined sheep-stealing to foot-pad robbery, and wasit last obliged to fly his native place, for stealing a:voung heifer, which he sold.Soon after, he stole^wo oxen from one farmerIpiles, and drove them to a slaughter-house nearvValtham abbey. Gale’s servants came to this place j| n pursuit of them, where finding two carcases, an-wering the description, they shrewdly suspected' hat Turpin was the owner, and having found thekins after a strict search, they had not the leastdoubt that they were the stolen cattle. A wa' ...tllj/as accordingly issued for his apprehension ; but henoon had scent that the runners w ere after him, and ;lijot off in time to save himself. He escaped, just ,1:t the moment they were entering the door.Finding his situation at Waltham Abbey rather !neriicus, he retreated into the Hundreds of Essex,jlvhere he fount greater security; but as he couldhot live long without a fresh supply of money, he 'IIfit upon a new scheme to support himself, and thatwas to rob the smugglers he happened t» meet[bntheroad; but he took cere not to attack a gang,tonly such solitary travellers as fell in his wayyandiithen he did it with a colour of justice ; for he con->tantly pretended to have a deputation from theJcustoms, and so took their property in the king’sname. He got tired of this kind of business after awrhile; and the retirement to whicn he was1 condemned, in this pursuit, rot suiting the volatilityjf his disposition, he went in search of the gangwith whom he had before connected himself, theirincipal part of whosedepredations were committed j[Upon Epping Forrest, and the adjacent part ; butthis business soon became an object of magisteriainquiry, he again returned to the solitude of theountry, with some more of the gang, and theytecame notorious deef-stealers ; and 1 urpin being |i good shot, he sent many a good buck up to hisconnexions in London.IBut this business like the former; not succedinjjjto their expectations, they determined to be house!breakers ; and in this they were much encouraged!by joining with Gregor's gang, as it was then calledlla company of desperadoes that made the Essesand adjacent roads very dangerous to travel. Irthese maurauding expeditions they made manydesperate and successful attempts ; one in particularat the house of Mr. Strype, an old man who kept achaadler shop at Watford, where they got a good|booty ; for they robbed the house of all the valua¬bles in it, but did not give its possessors any persona!violence, and this moderation was entirely owing toTurpin, who did not permit his comrades to pro¬ceed to abuse, that his own character might not becharged with unnecessary cruelty.In one night’s time, this gang robbed Chinkfordand Barking churches of all the moveables left inthe vestries, but the plate at both places, beingplaced in the respective churchwarden’s possession,tiA'y got but an indifferent booty. Turpin eluded,• with some of his companions, the search that waalmade after them ; but three of them were taken.,®one turned evidence, and the other two were trans¬ported.Notwithstanding his character was pretty welliblazoned about, two months after, he had the au¬dacity to present himself at Suson in Essex, where1,his wife lived, and here he also lived unnoticed forsix months, but when his concealment was discov¬ered, he made a quiet retreat by night, and nothingwas heard of him until the robbery of Farmer Law¬rence, when he joined with others called the Essex:gang, the principal of whom were Ned Rust, Geo^Gregory, Fielder, Rose, and Wheeler. This Gre¬gory was an old offender, and had robbed in con¬junction with Dick. Swift, both scholars of Joua-|lthon Wild, who had but lately been hanged.a5These followed deer-stealing in the daytimebeginning to be too well known by the keepers, 8|»ot finding money come in so fast as they expecte Jthey formed themselves into a body, by Turpin®directions, and went round the country at nightland whatever house they knew had any valuables!they marked. Their method was: one to knock anthe door, and the rest to rush in and plundered ; &|such was their impudence, that they were not al-Jways satisfied with the money, plate, watches, ant*rings they found, but even took away the house!hold goods that suited them. 1Somehow or other, Turpin became acquaintedwith the circumstances of an old woman who liveafat Loughton, that always kept a grept quantity ofl <ready cash by her ; whereupon he and the gang af'greed to rob her, and when they cam« to thed ior|Wheeler knocked at it, and Turpin and the rest|forced their way into the house, blindfolded tli^eyes of thJ old woman and her maid, and tied th4Slegs of her son, a well-grown lad to the bed-steadfj|and proceeded to rob the house, ; but not at firs™^finding the wished-for booty, they all set aboutconsultation what to do to get at it; for they werecertain she must have a considerable sum concealecsomewhere or other about the house Turpin beganto examine her where her money and effects werehid, telling her at the same time, that he knew shehad money, and it was in vain to deny it, for haveit they would. The old gentlewoman being verjloath to part with her money, persisted in it that |■be had none, and would not declare any thiogamore of the matter ; upon which some ot the gang|were inclined to believe her, and were sorry forttheir disappointment, but Turpin as strenuously*insisted she had money, as she said that she had|inone, and at last, with horrid oaths and imprecations Jswore he would put her on the fire. She continued!6•bstinate for all that, imagining that he meant onlyto threaten her; and so very fond was she of herdarling gold, that she even suffered herself to beserved as he had declared, and endured it for sometime, till the anguish at last forced her to make adiscovery, which when she had done, they took her joff the grate, and robed her of ali they could find.' Some persons talk of a moth more larger sura, but 1it is certain they stole upwards of four hundred, pounds, and decamped safely with the booty.The next place they robbed was a farmer’s at <i Ripple Side, near Barking, where the people of the| house not coming to tlie door as soon as they wantedthem, they broke it open. They first of all,f according to their old scheme, gagged, tied, and| blind-folded all they found in the place capable ofopposing them; and then robbed the house oft about 7001. which delighted Turpin so much, that1 he exclamed “ Aye that is the thing ! That’s yourI sort for the rag, (a cant torna for money) if itwould but last!” and they safely retired witli their| prize, which amounted to above 801. a man. Thisrobbery was committed in the beginning of the year■ 1726. This success so much flushed Turpin andhis associates that several others joined them, im ,s somuch, that they became a formidable crew and' many times, when together, defied the legal^ authority of the magistrates; and their adroitnesswas such, that they escaped detection for manymonths.Some time after they determined to attack thehouse of Mr. Mason, the keeper of Epping Forest,who was pitched upon to feel the effects of their£ resentment for his former vigilence in disturbing| their poaching incursions into his district. ButTurpin was not concerned in tins affair; for hehappened at that time to be at London, wheredrinking too freely, he fergot his appointment; but7iVie job was done without him by Rust. Rose am*i Fielder, who previously bound themselves togetherj by oath not to leave a whole thing in the house,i Fielder got ever the wall, and broke in backward,'when letting in his companions, they proceeded to(Iiheir business. Mr. Mason was at home sitting up'in his bed-room, with his father an aged gentleman.After using their usual means of tying their hands* and feet, they asked the old man if he knew them ;:i but answering he-did not, they carried him into the: kitchen, and put him under the dresser. Mr. Masonhad a sack forced over his head, and tied rou&l hisi! waist ; and in the flurry his little girl got out of ."i bed, and without any clothes on, hid herselfpi in the hog-sty. Turpin’s absence from thisij expedition was a very unfortunate circumstance toll. the forest-keeper’s family for they proceeded toH greater length in their mischief then he wouldji have permitted them had he been present, as he jf| was always satisfied with the plunder, without i| adding cruelty to oppression. They now went up Ii stairs, and broke every article of furniture in theI house. The china and glass made a dreadful ringing, jIj the chairs were piled upon the fire; looking-glasses, | jI drawers, and tables, were beat to pieces with bed III pasts ; while the beds and ctfrpets were cut to pieces I* without remorse. This wanton havoc produced| them but little, besides the brutal satisfaction of II revenge ; and they would hare retired without a| single guinea, had it not been, that in the generalf wreck of every thing, a china punch bowl was II broke, that stood a little out of the way, upon a j| shelf, and out of it dropped 22 guineas which they Jj picked up and retired with, after they had done as Ij much mischief as they possibly could, aid got safe ieft; no doubt, very well satisfied with’ the severe Iretaliation that they had made. They then took |road to London; and coming through White chapel, 18met Turpin, with whom they went to the Bun-house;in the Rope fields, where they shared their bootywith him, which proves the old adage, viz. there ishonour amongst theives, though they had not tak¬en any active share in the execution of the villany.'The booties they had succcsively made them- jselves master of, had not in the least abated theirijardour in the pursuit of more ; for, like the miser,vthe spendthrift felon is never aatisfied. but the morahe gets, the mote he lavishes, and though he doesnot’secure any thing for a rainy day, takes everyopportunity to get more, or, as some of the i'rater-»itv have been heard to say, they often rob “ tokeep their hands in”The next robbery they committed’was about sev¬en or eight o’ clock in the evening. Rust, Tur¬pin, Fielder, Walker, and three others, came^to thehouse of Mr. Saunders, a wealthy farmer at Charl¬ton, in Kent, and knocked at the door, inquired ifMr. Saunders was at home. Being answered thathe was, and the door opened, they all rushed in &went directly to the pailour, where Mr. Saunders,his Wife, and some friends, were at cards : theydesired them not to be frightened ; for they wouldnot hurt their persons, if they sat still and made nedisturbance, The first thing they laid hands onwas a silver snuff-box, which lay upon the tablebefore them , and having secured the rest of thecompany, obliged Mr. Saunders to go about thehouse with them, and open his closets, boxes, andescrutoir, whence they took upwards of’one hundredpounds in money, and all the plate in the house, avelvet hood, mantle, and other things. W'hilst thiswas doing, the servant maid got loose, ran upstairs,barred herself in one of the rooms and called outof the window for assistance, in hopes of alarmingthe neighbourhood ; but one of the rogues ran upstairs after her, and with a poker broke open the9i door, brought her down again, bound her, and ailthe rest of the family ; then they rifled the houseof every thing of value ; and finding in their searchiome bottles of wine, a bottle of brandy, and somemince pies, they obliged the company to drink aglass of brandy gach . Mrs. Saunders fainted withthe fright, they got her a glass of water, ard putt¬ing some liquor into it, gave it to her, and werevery careful to recover her. They staid a consid-: eraUe time in the house after feasting and packingup their booty, and when they departed, they de¬clared, that if any of the family gave the least a-i larrn within two hours, or advertised the marks ofthe plate they had stolen, they would return andmurder them at a future time. This robbery wasconcerted at Woolich. whence they proceeded toput their design into execution, and when they ef¬fected it, they crossed the water and brought theirgoods to an empty house in Ratclffe highway, andthere they deposited their plunder and divided theproceeds.They next proceeded into Surry, where TurpinRust, Fielder, Swift, and '"Valker, robbed Mr. Shel¬dons house, a lone building near Croydon Church,where they arrived about seven o’ clock at night.They began their operations here, by securingthe Coachman in the stable, whom they bound andlocked securely in. His master being in an out¬house, and hearing strange voices in the yard, wa*proceeding that way to learn the Cause, when hewas met by Turpin'and Walker, who seizing him,compelled him to shew them the way into the housewhich, when they had got into, they securedeach of the doors, and confined of the family intoone room, and set a gaurd on it within and withoutMr. Siieldon’s man unluckily coming to the doorfrom abroad, was first knocked down, and thendragged into the passage and tied, while they ran-tosicked thehoine. But they were very much dis¬appointed, for they found but Hctle cash, and noplate. From Mr. Sheldons person, they took ele¬ven guineas, two of which Turpin returned to him,Ibegging, pardon for what they had done, and wish¬ing him a good night.Notwithstanding the situation in which they hadleft the people here, they had the temerity and as¬surance to go to the half-moon Tavern at Croydonwhere they each regaled themselves with a glassof spirits, and changed one of the guineas they hadsc recently taken from Mr. Sheldon. In their way• out one of them let fail a diamond pin o" great valuein the passage, which was found by the servant girland returned to the owner. The business being•; completed they camecothe Black-horse in theBroad-way Westminster, near which Ruatand Rose lodg-:t. ed with one Fietcher the notorious Nan Turner ofF'oldgn Lane memo’y, who secreted herself heres from the pursuit of justice, for the murder of afellow lodger of her own sort. Here they concer¬ted another robbery, of which Ross and Fielder,were for that time the captains.These robberies had hitherto been carried on on 1foot, with only the occasional assistance of a hack¬ney coach ; but now they aspired to appear onhorse-back, for which purpose, they hireli horsesat the old leaping bar in high Holoorn, whencethey set out about two o’ clock and arrivedat the Queens head, near i’tamnore, at live, wherethey staid to regale themselves. It was by thismeans that Wood the master of the house, had s»good an opportunity of observing the horses, as toremember the same again, when he saw it afterwardsin King Street, Bloomsbury, where they were taken.About five o’clock they went from Wood’s the; Queen’s Head to Stanmore, and staid there fromI iix until about seven o’clock ; and then ail went11away togother for Mr, Lawrence’s, which wasabout a mile from thence, where they arrired abouthalf an hour after seven. Mr. Lawrence had justbefore been paying off some workmen, which weredischarged, and gone from the house.On their arrival at Mr. Lawrence they alightedfrom their horses at the outer gate ; and Fielder:getting over the hatch into the sheep-yard, met withwith Mr. Lawrence’s boy putting up some sheepThey seized and presented a pistol to him Fieldersaying he would shoofhim if he offered to cry ouf:and then took the boy’s garters and tied his handsinquiring what servants Vlr. Lawrence kept, am’who was in the house, which they obliged him ttell them. They told him they would not hurhim, but that he must go to the door with themand when they knocked at it, if any body withishould ask who it was, that the boy was to answeand bid them open the door to let him in and thewould give him some money. Accordingly theled the boy to the door, but he was so terrified thaihe had no power to speak ; whereupon Gregorknocked at the door, and called out Mr Lawrencthe man servant apprehending it to be some of thineighbours only, opened the door, npon which theall rushed in with pistols in their hands crying outD —n your blood, how long have you lived herd aninunediately seizing Mr. Lawrence and his manthrew a cloath over their faces, and then took tnboy, and led him into *he next room, with hiihands tied, demanded of him what fipe-arms MrLawrence had in his house ; and being told theiwas none but an old gun, they went and fetchetthat, and broke it to pieces; then took Mrf]Lawrence’s .nan bound his hands,, led hi n into th«!fcroom where the boy was, and made him sit downlthere; and also bound Mr. Lawrenee. Purpin cutdown his breeches; and they fell to rifling his1*12pockets, out of which they took one guinea, and aiPortugal piece of thirty six shillings, about fifteenjshillings in silver, and his keys. They said thatImoney was not enough that they must have more,and drove Mr. Lawrence up stairs, where comingto a closet, although they had taken the key from|Mr. Lawrence before and had it in their custody,ijpet they broke open the door, and took out fromwhence two guineas, ten shillings in silver, a silverj:up, thirteen silver spoons, twogoldrings, and what|hey could find; and in their search meeting withbottle of elder wine, they obliged the servantsdrink twice of it. Dorothy Street, the maid-ervant, being in the back house churning, andearing a noise, suspected they were theives whorere got into the house ; and in order to save her-elf, she put out the candle ; but they rushed inon her, tied her hands, and then brought herto the room where the other servants were; theyn rifled the house of all they could get, linen,,ble cloths, napkins, shirts, and the sheetsom off the beds ; and trod the beds under feet,o discover if any money was concealed therein,inspecting there was more money in the house,;hey brought Mr. Lawrence down again, andthreatened to cut his tin oat; and Rose put a knife•o it, as if he intended to do it, to make him confessvhat money was in the house. One of them took1 chopping-bill, and threatened to cut off his leg.They then broke his head with their pistols, andSragged him about by the hair of the head. Anotherif them took a kettle of water off the fire, and flung. t upon him ; but it did no other harm than wettingurn, by reason the maid had just before taking outhe greatest part of the boiling water, and filled itgain with cold. After this they dragged himbout again swearing they would “ do for him," ifte did not immediately inform them where the re&t13•f his money was hid. They then proceeded U»make a farther search ; and Gregory, who acted as11 chief in this affair, swore to the maid, that if shei would tell or show him where the money was hid>he would give her something charming fine to wear;)to which she replied, she could not inform him ofany. This did not in the least satisfy him, for hei| forced her up stairs, where he acted in great vio-i lence, and, after bolting the door, swore he wouldshoot her, if she?offered to cry out, telling her it« would be better for her master’s family, if she didso; or he would go to her master’s son’s house,i the next adjoining, and stB:p it of every thing ; Ii for he said he knew the master was from home.!| Not being able to get any thing out of h er, he tied |her fast to the bed-posts, and left her; not forget- ji ing to threaten hej with his immediate return, if Ja she made the least disturbance,He then returned to the boy, and enquired* whether his master’s son would return that night;i and being informed he would, he said that he als«ij would go there, and see the house. Upon this,l two of them took the boy out to the place ; but, onI further consideration, they did not attempt anyi thing there that night. Upon their return, they: rummaged every thing i then house; In a chestwhich belonged to Mr. Lawrence’s youngest son, jthey turned out £201. and packed up the linen,and withdrew, threatening to return again in half |an hour, and kill every oue they should find looss. 1So saying, they locked them all in the parlour, ^took the keys of the back and front door and threw |them down the privy, which was in the area.Some of the goods were lost by the way; for jjthey were in such haste to get off, that they looked fbuck for nothing ; and some were afterwards found min Field Lane, and others in Chice Lane and Saffora ^/fill, where the gang mostly resided, and where *114some were taken. ■ Turpin by this robbery got butlittle ; for out of 271. they got in the whole, hedistributed among them all but three guineas andsix shillings and sixpence.Such frequent robberies, and the particulars ofthis atrocious one, being represented to the king,a proclamation was issued for the apprehensinn ®fthe offenders, and a pardon and £,50. was offet edto any oftheparty who wouldimpeach his accomplices.This however had no effect; for they continued !their depredations with more systematical ingenuity,and at such distances that none could be awareof their approach. The success they met withelated their spirits, and encouraged them to biddefiance to the excutive laws of the country.In the mouth of danger, and in the midst ofalarm, which their audacites had occasioned, I’m pinand his gang were as careless as they wrere heedless.The White Hart, at the upper end of Drury Lane,was their constant place of rendezvous. Herethey planed their nightly visits, and here they divid¬ed their spoil, and spentthe property theyuniawf allyacquired. The gang all this time consisted of agreat number, from the bold adventurer on horse¬back, to the pitiful stripper of children's deaths.These transactions alarmed the whole country,nobody thinking themselves safe : upon which Mr.Thomson, one of king’s forest-beepers, went to theDuke of Newcastle’s office, and obtained hisMajesty’s promise of a reward of one hundred poundsfor whoever should apprehend any of them. Thismade them more shy then they were before; hut,however, they could not conceal themselves entirely,and they still frequented their old haunts ; wdiensome of the justices’ men hearing that a number ofthem usualey met at an alehouse in an alley inWestminster, they went thither, where findingTurpin, Fielder, Rose and Wheeler, after a short15eonflict with cutlashes three at last were secured,but not till one Boh Berry, a cork-cuter, had hisarm dangerously cut across a little below the elbowDuring this scuffle Turpin made his escape out ofa window, andgetting ahorse run awayimmediately.Wheeler turned evidence, and two of the* other:were hanged in chains.This affair broke up the gang. Turpin bein,now left to himself, had more prudence than tfollow houserobbing immediately after, particular!as he was so well know ; and having some monein his pockeL he took a resolation to be concernecwith no other gang but to act entirely on his owibottom. With this view he set off to Cambridgewhich he judged to be the best place, as he was ncknown in that part of the country.Near Alton he met with an odd encounter, whicgot him the best companion he ever had, as he oftedeclared. King, the hi h way man, as he was returning from this place for London, being well dresseand mounted, Turpin seeing him hive the appearan«e of a substantial gentleman, rode up to bin;and thinking him a fair mark, bade him stand, anideliver, and thereupon producing his pistols, Kir.jfell a-laughing, and said, “What, dog rob dogCome, Come Brother Turpin, If you don’t kno<me, I know you, and would be very glad of youcompany.” After a mutual communiqation of circumstances. they agreed to keep company, and divide good or ill fortune, as the trumps might tur;up. In fact, King was true to him to the last, anthis was for more than three years, when King mhis fate by a ball on the road.They met with various fortunes ; but being boil.5too well known to remain long in one place, and a4no house that knew them would receive them in ithey formed the resolution of making themselvescave, covered with bavins and earth, and for lhs(|>i16'puipsse pitched flpon a convenient place, enclosedwith a thicket, situated on the Waltham side of[Epping, near the sign of the royal oak. Here theyexcavated, and covered with thicket-wood, andquickset, a 4lace large enough to receive them, and,heir horses l- and while they lay quietly concealedhemselves, could, thro’ several holes, discover the»assengers as they went along the road; and ashey thought proper, would issue out, and roh themn such a bold and daring stile, that they werehore admired than blamed. The very higglers onhe road did not always escape their requisitions,ut they were mostly repaid again; whilst those1/ho went armed, lost their pieces, were woundedIjpd robbed of all they carried about them. Turpin’sjjj*ife was their messenger, went to the market forduals for them, supplied them with linen, andquently remained thero a whole week together.In this place Turpin lived, eat, drank, and lay, forle space of six years, during the first three of whichjUje was enlivened be the drollery of his companionJl’om King, who was afeliow of infinite humour forI |»lling stories, and of unshaken resolution in attackr defence.I These forest partners frequently issued fromJ’om their cell like the theives from the cave in■til Bias, and take a ride out in quest of plunder,ling and he once riding towards Bungay, in Suffolk,let tw'3 young market women, who had justeceived a considerable sum of money for corn.Cing proposed to rob them, but Turpin dissuadedim from it, alleging for a reason, that they were. vo pretty inoffensive girls, and he would not beipneerned in it. King swore he would rob them,nd accordingly did so, against Turpins consent,hich occasioned a dispute between them.It would be an endless task to relate every par-crular robbery they committed while in connectiontegether in this fastness of the forest; for it isgenerally known, at that time there was no regularpolice, established by government as is now ; antthe improved state of the roads, together, make iimpossible for such daring disturbers of the peaceto remain any length of time in one place.The mail having been robbed upon Stamford hilthe bag, and most of the letters, were found scat¬tered about near that part of the forest, which wasupposed to be the abode of Turpin and his associate : for several circumstances had occured, tmake it a probable event that he might be foumthereabouts; besides, the Woodford stage-coachm awho knew' him perfectly well, as well as hcolleague King, had sften been heard to say, tfesif any person would give him arms and a hundrepounds, dead or alive he would give srme acounof Turpin; but his time was not yet arrived, athough he had so long been the terror and talkthe country round London, as well as at remotedistance.sTurpin and King nest stopped a person of verdecent appearance, near Hackney, and demandehis money : but the gentleman burst into tears, saihe was in circumstances of distress, and possesseonly eighteen pence ; on which, instead of robbinijhim they mode him a present of half-a-crown |proofthat sentiments ofhumanity may not be utterlybanished even from the bosom of a theif. On theifreturn to town they robbed a man of fourtee]shillings, and then went to their old place of retreadTurpin had gone on for a long while in a motijnotorious and defying way, and the reward for a{3prehending him had induced many to attempt ijjAmongst the rest was the ranger Thomson’s man i*in company w ith a higgler. Turpin was unarmedstanding alone, and not knowing the man, tooihim for one poaching for hares, and told him13would get no hares near that thicket. “ No" say*»ay8 the fellow, “ but I have got a Turpin,” andpresented his gun at him, commanded him to sur-|render. Turpin stood talking with him, snd{receding back to his cave, laid hold of his carbine,and shot him dead, at which the higgler made cfhThe man’s death obliged Turpin to make off; precipitately ; *o he went farther into the country|in search of King; and sent his wife a letter tomeet him at a public-house in Hertford, who oe-cordingly went, with two of Squire H—s’s servants,he waited for him about half an hour, and whene came to the house, he asked for her by a ficti¬tious name, left o« purpose. Me soon found shewas there, an d going to her through the kitchen,e saw a butcher to v horn he owed five pounds :[the butcher taking him aside, “come Dick.” rayse, “ it weuid be of great service.” Turpin replied,Is wife was in tlte next room, and sire had money,nd he would get some ofher, and pay him present-y. The butcher apprised two or three who wereresent w'hoie was, and that he would get his fiveounds first, and then take him , But Turpin in¬tend of going tohis wife, jumped out of the window,ook horse, and went away immediately, withouteeirg her, while the butcher waited some time inxpectition of receiving his five pounds.After this he still kept about the forest, till heas harassed almost to death, for he did not dare•!go near his old place of safety, the cave, which wasi ransacked as soon as discovered after his shootingJthe keepers man ; and when they found his habita¬tion out, it contained two shirts in a cloth bag,.five pair of stockings, various shoes and boots,some few utensils to cook with, a quantity of shot,flints and powder, the remains of a bottle of wine,and some ham and pieces «>f bacon ; so that, beingrlriven from place to place, he skulked about theeutekirts of the woods, and was once very near takeafwhen Mr. Ives, the king’s huntsman, took out dry¬footed hounds to find him ; but perceiving them ati a distance, before they had got scent of him, hei got up a tree, and saw them go underneath him,1 without noticing his retreat; upon which he at lasttook the resolution of going down into Yorkshire.He took a large house at Brough, near marketI Cave in Yorkshire, form whence to Welton hei carried on an extensive trade in horses, selling andJ exchanging ; and at the time of the races he is saidi to have realized about one thousand pounds, which <I enabled him now to keep the first company stirring •| in those parts. On one of these' occasional visits1 to Brough, he met the celebrated Dicky Dickson,J the hnmeurous governor of Scarborough Spa, tor whom he sold a horse, which four years afterwardswas claimed by Squire Moore as his property, hehe having lost it off the marshes in LincolnshireHe went again to Long Sutton in Lincolnshire,where the people, he thought, would not know him ; :and as he abounded in money, he purposed to 'him¬self to commence a dealer in horses. In his waythither he met a man on horseback, with a large box, beforehim; and, upon inquiry, he found him to bea mountbank travelling the country for the publicgood and his own. After a short introduction,Turpin proposed to keep him company, which wasno sooner mentioned then agreed upon ; and at thefirst stop they made, Turpin undertook the part :of distributing the bills which in a fewhours broughta number of persons round him. The next beingmarket day, and seeing a number of good horses atthe inn where he put up at, he made free with one, 1leaving his own in the same stall. His partner’s a'leather sack, hanging conveniently by the fireside, 1he turned out all the doctor’s compositions, and jfilled it from the box of a jew pedlar, with which 3sohe decamped, without being perceived. He dispose t«f his horse at Long Sutton for ready money, to tyoung farmer, and found another credulous enougl 'to let him have one upon security of the hardwar* .and goods of which he robbed the jew.Soon after this he met a young woman in a neatdress sitting under a tree that grew on the road side,and being in a malancholy posture, he was veryimportunate to know the occasion of her being inthat situation. The young woman after returningreturning him thanks for his civility assured him shewas only resting herself from her fatiguejbeinggoingon foot to her father’s house, not far distant.Ilpon healing this, Turpin dismounted,and request¬ed her to take his place, and sit upon the saddle,tvhich she declined. However, at the next inn, heborrowed a pillion, and got up before her ; and inthat manner they reached the village where theyoung woman’s father dwelt. He called upon hernext day, and was well entertained by the family ;and putting himself forward as a horse dealer,travelling upon business, procured himself the creditof two good draught horses, which he socn sold butforgot to pay for them. His temerity could nowonly be equalled by bis impudence. His depredationswere now the talk of the whole kingdom. His Iactivity and success were equal ; and although areward of two hundred pounds was' offered by hisMajesty, with a free pardon to any of his accomplices,it failed of bringing him up; and the newspapers con¬tinually reported fresh feats of his Felonies. Thisproclamation and reward appeared in the Gazette ofJune 14, 1737, as may be seen in the LondonMagazine for the year, vol. 6th. page 335..He could never throughly leave oil visiting hi*old haunts ; for the afore-mentioned Magazine men¬tions a robbery committed by him singly upon agentleman in his own chaise at Holloway, from whom21he took a considerable sura. The gentleman observed 'to him, when he attacked him first, that he had reign-> jed long enough, and ought to leave of thieving; towhich he replied, “ Pray, Sir, don’t you seem to mindit: my time is not now ; n« you the man to takeme : but tip me the cole or i ll —He then rodeoff, and passed two gentlemen’s servants, with ledhorses, showing his pistols. Turpin had been fre- jquently known to levy contributions at the back <j|Islington, and in a few hours to rob in a distantcounty.It was remarkable, that, for such a course ojtime as from the date of the king’s reward of twchundred pounds for his apprehension, he should stil;go on with his depredations with the most audacioulimpunity, insomuch that it affected the nationalcharacter in the eyea of foreigners, who could no]help remarking, that the native bravery of th{English was aupine in bringing such a da.ring offender to justice. In fact, his feats of equestrait,agility were so suprifing, and his indentity a\,uncertain, that to theae circumstances alone ma’’be^ascribed his long evasion from the iron hand cthe law.He had been at Suson, and drank deep at tinCock there. Early in th* morning he set off, anorobbed a gentleman of fifty guineas and a valuablywatch, in the environs of London. Apprehensiviof being known and pursued, he spurred kis hors<jon and took the northren, road and, astonishing t<jrelate, reached York the same evening, and wajnoticed playing at the bowls in the bowling-greetwith several gentlemen there, which circumstanc<saved him from the-hands of justice for that timeThe gentleman he robbed knew him to be Turpinand caused hipi to be pursued and taken at York jhe afterwards swore to him, and the horse he r^d]on, which was the identical one he arrive^ Upa22n that city ; but on being in the stable, and hi*ider at play, and all in the space of four and twentySpours, his alibi was admitted ; for the magistratespt York could not believe it possible for one horsello cover the ground, being upwards of one hundredirules, in so short a space. He is reported, upen‘this occasion, to have used his horse to raw beefi'ppon the hit in his mouth. Some go so far as toSlay he ahvays rode with fowls’ guts tied round it.e this so or not. it was a race that equalled, ifot surpassed, the first achievementsof turf velocity.Notwithstanding the dreadful scenes of robbery,nd sometimes cruelty) in which Turpin wasngaged, he gave several proofs of his possessing aeart capable of feeling for the distresses of a fel-vv creature, and a sphit of generosity. He onceet a country dealer coming up to market on thessex road, whom he commanded to stop, and de-r his m»ney. The poor man told him he hadut fifteen shillings and sixpence, which he said wass all, and if it was taken from him he should beduced to absolute want. Turpin, w hose financesere quite exhausted, answered, there was no timejl o be lost ; his money he must have; but at thej ame time, desired him to be in a certain part of.Newgate Street on a particular hour next day,' With his hat in his hand : and if any person walkedoy and dropped any thing into his hat, to take nojotiee. butgo immediately about his business. Thenan accordingly took his station at the time ap-rointed, and had net been there more than half antour, before he felt something fall into his hat, andjpon opening the small packet, to his great joy, hebund it to contain ten guineas.‘ Justice though slow', overtcck him at last. One•f t!it farmers in Essex, from whom he had stolens.horse, traced the robbery to him, and having foi-)r-«U him into Yorkshire, caused him to be ap-23jjrehended and examined before a magistrate. Hejvas then fully com mi ted to York Castle for trial.On the rumour that the noted Turpin was ai risoner in York Castle, persons flocked from allii>arts of the country to take a view of him, anddebates ran very high whither he was the real Turpin>r not. Among others who visited him, was a fellow/ho pretended to be well acquainted with thea nous Turpin, having rode several miles with himhunting. After regarded him a considerablele with looks of great attention, he told the keeperj e would bet him half-a-guinea he was not Turpiah ' horse-stealer; on which the prisoner, whispering|jh : turnkey, said, “Lay him, Jack, and I’ll go youaives.”When he was on his trial, his case seemed much|o affect the hearers. He had two trials, uponloth of which he was convicted upon the fullestpi dence. During his abode in the castle, them nkeys are said to have made more than an huud-d pounds by showing him; and selling him andijis visitors liquors.He was tried at the York assizes. cn22d. March,'38, before, the Hon. Sir Wm. Chappie, Knt |?is guilt v/as clearly proved, and Sentence of death,as recorded against hirn.He vrrote to his father up@n being convicted, t®se his interest *o get him off for transportation;this fate was at hand; his notoiiety caused^plication to be ineffectual.Fhe morning before Turpin’s execution, he gavejl. 19s. among five men, who were to follow the cartmourners, with hatbands and gloves, antj gave[loves and hatbands to several perons more. HeIso left a gold ring, and tbo pair of shoes and clog*,> a married woman at brough, that he was aquaintedith, though he at the same time acknowledged‘ had a wife and child of his own.24He was carried in a cart to the place of executioon Saturday, April 7th, 1739, with John Ste acondemned also for horse-stealing. He behavhimself with amazing assurance, and bowed to tsoectators as he passed. It was remarkable th£as he mounted the ladder, his right leg trembleon which he stamped it down with an air, and wiundaunted courage looked round about him ; arafter speaking near half an hour to the topsmathrew himself off the ladder, and expired in abo'fire minutes.His corpse was brought back from the gallovabout three in the afternoon, and lodged at tlKlue Boar, ni Castlegate, till ten the next moning, when it was buried in a neat coffin in SGeorge’s church-yard, with this inscription R. 'The grave was dug very deep; and the persoihe appointed his mourners, took all possibcare to secure the body; notwithstanding whicisome persons were discovered moving off with ihaving taken it up, The mob having got sceiwhere it was carried to, and suspecting it was to 1Anatomized went to s garden in which it was d(posited, and brought away the body through thstreets of the city, in • sort of triumph almost nakcibeing only laid on a beard, covered with straw, ancarried on four mens’ shoulders, end buried in tlisame grave, having first filled the coffin with slakeHme. He confessed to the hangman, that he wjthirty three years of age.FINIS.