N A.RRAT1VEWtOF THE£ wBattles of Drumclog,>. AN 11! BOTRWELL BRIDGE,rg" ' ">■. •   ‘ •*; a1 The former fought On the lit,, and the latter on the 2j2ii| • of June, 1679.■Between the King's Troops, and theCovenanters. -< ,BY THELAIRD OF TORFOOT,An Officer in the Presbyierian Army,RlLWARfcOCK. :Printed ly H. Crayford,*". .( T OF 5C0T[,»»!) H'• • V.e'n.K ~,yA S\. • ; v PThe Battle of Drumclog.newspaper, me ‘ iNat:DnaI Oazette.1 It is writ¬ten by the Laird of Torfoot, an officer in the IPresbyterian army, whose estate is at this day-in the possession of his lineal descendants of thefifth generation-“ TT was on a fair Sabbath morning, 1st June,X 1679, that an assembly of Covenanters satdown on the heathy mountains of Diumclog. Wehad assembled not to fight, but to worship theGod of out fathers, We were far from the tumultof cities —The long dark heath waved around us {and we disturbed no living creatines, saving thepees-weep and the heather*cock. As usual, we hadcome armed. It was for self-defence. For desper¬ate and ferocious bands made bloody raids throughthe country, and, pretending to put down treason,they waged war against religion and morals- Theyspread ruin and havoc over the face of bleedingScotland.The venerable Douglas had commenced the so¬lemnities of the day. He was expatiating on theexecrable evil? of tyranny. Our souls were on fireat the remembrance of our country’s sufferings, andthe wrongs of the church. In this moment of in-Ti*Sii iteise fcding, our watchman potted on the nsigji-houring height fired his carabine, and ran towardl ithe Congregation. He announced the approachof the enemy. We raised our eyes to the minister,‘f I have done,” said Douglas, with his usual firm¬ness—H You have got the theory,—now for thepractice ; you know your duty ; self-defence is al¬ways lawful. But the enemy approaches.” Hei raised his eyes to heaven and uttered a prayer-brief and emphatic—like the prayer of RichardliCameron, ‘‘Lord, spare the green, and take thei ripe.”The officers collected their men, and placedithemselves each at the head of those of his oursI district. Sir Robert Hamilton placed the foot isI the centre, in three raaks. A company of horse,well armed and mounted, was placed on the left;and a small squadron also on the left. These wereI drawn back, and they occupied the more solid;ground ; as well with a view to have a more firm[ footing, as to arrest any flanking party that might;;take them on the wings. A deep morass lay betweenins and the ground ot the enemy. Our aged men, ourifemales, and children retired; but they retiredI slowly. They had the hearts and the courage ofI the females and children in those days of intense; religious feeling, and ot suffering. They mani-it fested more concern for the fate or relatives, for theiifate of the church, than for their own personali safety As Claverhouse descended the oppositeKmountain, they retired to the rising ground in theHrear of our host. The aged men walked with their(bonnets in hand. Their long grey locks waved ini the breeze. They sang a cheering psalm. The: music was that of the welhknown tune of “ The'Martyrs j” and the sentiment breathed defiance.—3The music floated down on the wind. Our men;gave them three cheers as they tell into their ranksNetcr did I witness snch animation in tlie looks otmen. For me, my spouse and my little childrenwere in the rear. My native plains, and the halls >cf my father, far below, in the dale of Aven, werefull in view, from the heighths which we occupied.My country seemed to raise her voice—the bleeding;church seemed to wail aloud. ‘ And these,’ I said,as Clavers and his troops winded slowly down thedark mountain’s side, * these are the unworthyslaves, and bloody executioners, by which the tyr¬ant completes our miseries-’Hamilton here displayed the hero. His portlyfigure was seen hastesing from rank to rank. Heihspired courage into our raw and undisciplinedtroops. The brave Hackstone, and Hall of Haugh-head, sthod at the head of the foot, and re-echoedthe sentiments of their Chief. Burley and Clelandhad inflamed the minds of the horsemen on the leftto a noble enthusiasm. My small troop on theright needed no exhortation ; we were a band ofbrothers, resolved to conquer or fall.The trumpet of Clavers sounded a loud note ofdefiance—the kettle drum mixed its tumultous roll—they halted—they made a long pause. We couldsee an officer with four file conducting 15 personsfrom the ranks to a knoll on their left. I couldperceive one in black: it was my f. iend King, theChaplain of Lord Cardross, who had been taken byClavers at Hamilton. ‘ Let them be shot throughthe head,’ said Clavers, in his usual dry way. 4 ifthey should offerto fun away.’ We could see himview our position with great care. His officerscame around him- We soon learned that he wishedto treat wuh us. He never betrayed symptoms ofmercy or of justiee, nor offered terms of reconcili-\tioSj, unless when he dreaded that he had met hismatch ; and, even then, it was only a manoeuvreK> gam time, or to deceive. His flag approachedic edge of the jog. Sir Robert held a flig sac*id ; had it been borne by Clavers himself, he hadonoured it. He demanded the purpose for whiche came. ‘ I come,’ said he, ‘ in the name of hisicred Majesty, and of Colonel Grahame, to offerou a pax don, on condition that you lay down yourrms, and deliver up your ringleaders.’—‘ Tell yourfficer,’ said Sir Robert, ‘ that we are fully awaref the deception he practises. He is not clothedrith any powers to treat, nor was he sent out toreat with ns, and attempt a reconciliation. Theliovernment against whom we have risen, refusesn redress our grievances, or to restore to us ouraerties, Had the tyrant wished to render us jus-ice, he had not sent by the hand of such a feroci-iis assassin as Claverhouse. Let him, however,tew his powers, and we refuse not to treat; a ade shall lay down our arms to treat, provided that|ip also lay down his. Thou hast my answer.’—ft is a perfectly hopeless case,’ said Burley, while:t called after the flag-bearer—‘ Let me add oneijerd, by your leave, General. Get thee up tarj at bloody dragoon, Ciavers, and tell him thatre will spare his life, and the lives of his troops,|* condition that he, your Clavers, lay down his|ms, and the arms of these troops. We will dajliore : as we have no prisoners on these wild moun*l|ijns, we will even let him go on his parole, on coa¬lition that he swear never to lift arms against thejiligion and the liberties of bis country,’ A loudftrst of applause re echoed from the ranks; and,(ter a long pause in deep silence, the army sungs following verses of a psalm :—‘ There, arrows of the bow he brake ;! The shield, the sword, the war.More glorious thou than hills of prey,More excellent art far.eThose that were stout of heart are spoil’d,They slept their sleep outright;And none of those their hands did find.That were the men of might.'When the report was made to Claverhouse, hegave the word with a savage ferocity, ‘ Their bloodhe on their own heads, be * no quarters' the wordthis day.’ His fierce dragoons raised a yell, and‘ No quarter’re-echoed from rank to rank, whilethey galloped down the mountain’s side. It is stat*«d that Burley was heard to say, ‘ Then be it so—-•ven let there be ‘no quarters’—at least in my wing•f the host. So God send me a meeting,’ cried healoud, ‘ with that chief under the white plume.—•My country would bless my memory, could trysword give his villainous carcase to the crows.Our raw troops beheld with firmness the ap»proach of the foemen; and at the moment whenthe enemy halted to fire, the whole of our footdropped on the heath. Not a man was seen downwhen the order was given to rise, and return thefire. The first rank fired, then kneeled down, whilethe second fired. They made each bullet tell. Asoften as the lazy rolling smoke was carried overthe enemy’s heads, a shower of bullets fell on his franks. Many a gallant man tumbled on the heath. ,tThe fire was incessant It resembled one blazingsheet of flame, for sever:'.1, minutes, along the line tof the Covenanters. Clavers attempted to cross;’the morass, and break our centre. ‘ Spearmen ! toilthe front/—I could hear the deep-toned voice of!)Hamilton say—‘ Kneel, and place your spears to;]receive the enemy‘s cavalry ; and you, my gallant;’fellows, fire—God and our Country is our word.—■ >Our officers flew from rank to rank- Not a peas¬ant gave way that day. As the smoke rolled off,wc could see Clavers urging on his men with the;[violence of despair. His troops fell in heaps arfcundihim, and still the gaps were filled up. A galled(trooper would occasionally flinch y but ere he could- turn or flee, the sword of Clavers was waving over:his head. I could see him, in his fury, strike bothman and horse. In the fearful carnage, he himselft sometimes reeled. He would stop short in themidst of a movement, then contradict his own or¬ders, and strike the man, because he could notcomprehend his meaning.He ordered flanking parties to take us on ourright and left. “ In the name of God,” cried he,“ cross the bog, and charge them en the flanks, tillwe get over this morass. If this fail, we are lost.”It now fell to my lot to come into action.—Hitherto we had fired only some distant shot. Agallant officer led his band down to the borders ofthe swamp, in search of a proper place to cross.We threw ourselves befote him. A severe filingcommenced. My gallant men fired with greatsteadiness. We could see many tumbling fromtheir saddles. Not content with repelling the foe-men, we found our opportunity to cross, and at¬tack them sword in hand. The Captain, whosename I afterwards ascertained to be Arrol, threwhimself in my path. In the first shock, I discharg.ed my pistols. His sudden start in his saddle, toldme that one of them had taken effect. With oneof the tremenduous oaths of Charles II. he closedwith me. He fired his steel pistol 1 was in frontof him ;—My sword glanced on the weapon, andgave a direction to the bullet, which saved my life.By tins time, my men had driven the enemy be¬fore them, and had left the ground clear for thesingle combat. As he ma'fe a lounge at my breast,I turned his sword aside, by one of those sweepingblows, which are tather the dictate of a kind ofinstinct of self-defence, than a movement of Jtrt,—8As our strokes redoubled, my antagenist’s darkfeatures put on a look of deep and settled ferocity,No maji'who;has not encountered the steel of hisenemy, in the Held of battle, can conceive the looksand the manner of the warrior, in the moments ofhis intense feelings. May I never witness themagain!—Wa fought in silence. My stroke fell onhis left ^boulder; it cut the belt of his carabine,which tell to the ground. His blo-w cut me to-.therib, glanced along the bone, and rid me also of theweight of my carabine. He. had now advanced•too near me, to be struck wjth the sword. I grasp¬ed him by the collar. I pushed him backwards;and, v/ith an entangled blow of my Ferrara, Istruck him across his throat. It cut only the strapcf Iris head-piece, and it fell off. With a suddenspring, he se:z?d me by the sword oalt. Our hor¬ses reared, and we both came to the ground. Werolled on the heath in deadly conflict. It was inthis situation of matters, that my brave fellows hadreturned from the rout of the flanking party, tolook after their commander. One of them was ac¬tually rushing on my antagonist, when I called onhim to retire. We started to pur feet. Each grasp¬ed his sword. We closed in conflict again. Afterparrying strokes of mine enemy which indicated ahellish ferocity, I told, him my object was to takehim prisoner; that sooner than kill him, I shouldorder my men to seize him. “ Sooner let my soulbe brandered on my ribs in hell,” said he, “ thanbe captured by a Whigamore. ‘ A’o quarter’ is theword of my Colonel, and my word. Have at thee.Whig—I dare the whole of you to the combat.”—“Leave the madman to me—leave the field in¬stantly,” said 1 to my party, whom I could hardlyrestrain. My sword fell on his right shoulder —His sword dropped from his hand.—I lowered mysword, and offered him his life. “ No quarter,”_ 9i said ha, with ?. shriek of despair. He snatched hissword, which I held in my hand, and made a lotinge-i at my breast. I parried his blows till he was nearlyI exhausted; bi’.t, gathering up his huge limbs, heI put forth all his energy in a thru, t at my heart —it My Aadro Ferrara received ir, so as to weaken itsi. deadly force ; but it made a deep cut. Though 1i was faint, with loss of blood, I left him no time: ior another blow. My sword glanced on his shoul-Ider, cut through his buff coat, and skin, and flesh;' 'swept through his jaw, and laid open his throat: from ear to ear. The Are of his ferocious eye v/asquenched in a moment. He reeled, and fallingwuh a terrible clash, he poured out his soul, withi a torrent of blood, on the heath. I sunk down,| insensible for a momest. My faithful men, wholever lost sight of me, raised me up —In the fierce■ombat, the soldier suffers most from thirst. 1tnoped down, to fill my helmet with the waterdrich oozed through the morass. It was deeplynged with human blood, which flowed in the con-ict above me. I started back with horror; anddrawn Witherspoon bringing up my steed, we setvirward in the tumult of the battle.MAH this while, the storm of war had raged onili ir left. Cleland and the fierce Burley had charged>e strong company sent to flank them. Thesesijcers permitted them to cross the swamp, thenjiarged them with a terrible shout. “ No quarter,"bed the dragoons. “ Be ‘ no quarter' to you, then,murderous loons,” cried Burley; and at oneiw he cut their leader through the steel cap, andaltered h’s brains on his followers. His everyiw overthrew a foeman. Their whole forcese now brough- up, and they drove the dragoonsCiavers into the swamp, They rolled over each'ir. All stuck fast. 1 he Covenanters dismount*hand fought on foot. They left not one man tor the tidings to their Colonel,810The firing of the platoons had long ago ceased,and the dreadful work of death was carried on bythe sword. At this moment, a trumpet was heardin the rear of our army. There was an awful pause*all looked up. It was only the gallant CaptainNesbit, and his guide, Woodburn of Mains: he hadno reinforcements for us, but himself was a host.With a loud huzza, and flourish of his sword, heplaced himself by the side of Burley, and cried,• Jump the ditch, and charge the enemy.* He andBurley struggled through the marsh. The menfollowed as they could. They formed, and marched |on the enemy’s right flank.At this instant. Hamilton and Hackstone brought iforward the whole line of infantry in front, ‘ Godjland our Country’ re-echoed from all the ranks.—4i‘ No quarterly said the fierce squadrons of Clavers.— Here commenced a bloody scene.I seized the opportunity this moment offered telme of making a movement to the left of the enemjjto save my friend King and the other prisoners,We came in time to save them. Our swords speedjily severed the ropes which tyranny had bound o<the arms of the men. The weepons of the fallejfoe supplied what was lacking of arms; and witigreat vigour wt moved forward to charge the en'my on the left flank. Claverhouse formed a hejlow square—himself in the centre; his men foug!gallantly ; they did all that soldiers could dotheir situation. Wherever a gap was made Clave^thrust the men forward, and speedily filled it uThree times he rolled headlong on the heath, ashastened from rank to rank, and as often hemounted. My little hand thinned his ranks. I fpaid us a visit. Here I distinctly saw the featw Nand shape of this far-famed man. He was sn> ■of stature, and not well formed ; his arms wllong in proportion to his legs; he had .a ccnipleil 1(11•casually dark; his features were not lighted upiwith sprightliness, as some fabulously reported;they seemed gloomy as hell; his cheeks were lankland deeply* furrowed ; h:3 eye-brows were drawndown, and gathered into a kind of knot at their junc¬tions, and thrown up at their extremities ; they had,in short, the strong expression given by our pain¬ters to those on the face of Jutfas Iscariot; his eyeswere hollow; they had not the lustre of genius, northe fire of vivacity : they were lighted up by thatdark file of wrath which is kindled and fanned bym internal anxiety, and consciousness of criminaldeeds; his irregular and large teeth were presentedthrough a smile, which was very unnatural on hisset of features; his mouth seemed to be unusuallyi large, from the extremities being drawn backwardjAnd downward—as if in the intense application t®(tomething cruel and disgusting; in short, his up->er teeth projected over his under lip, and* pn the• vhole, presented to my view the mouth on theimage of the Emperor Julian the Apostate.^-I®time of his rapid courses past us, my sword couldJ|nly shear off his white plume and a fragment oftis buff coat. In a moment he was at the otherside of his squaie. Our officers eagerly sought aiineeting with him. ‘ He has the proof of lead/bfried some of our men—* Take the cold steel, or a:riece of silver.* ‘ No,' cried Barley, ‘ It is hisl-jftpid movement on that fine charger that bids de¬fiance to any thing like an aim in the tumult of theploody fray. I could sooner shoot ten heatherlocks on the wing, than one flying Oarers.* At, i mat moment, Burley, whose eye watched his an-t-gonist, pushed into the hollow square. But Bur-r jr was too impatient. His blow was levelled at:m befoie he came within its reach. His heavy1trord descended on the head of Clavers* horse, and(tilled him to the ground.—Burley’s men rushed12p^llmel! on the fallen Clavers, but his faithful dra¬goons threw themselves upon them, and by theiroverpowering force drove Burley back. Claverswas, in an instant, on a fresh steed. His bugle-man recalled the party who were driving back theflarikiug party of Burley. He collected his wholetroops to make his last and desperate attack,—Hecharged our infantry with such force, that they be¬gan te reel. It .was only for a moment. The gal.rant Hamilton snatched the white flag of the Co¬venant, and placed h'mself in the fore-front of thebattle. Our men shorted ‘ God and tvr Country^and rallied under their flag. They fought like he¬roes. Clavers fought no less bravely. His blowswere aimed at our ( dicers. His steel fell on thehelmet of Hackstore, whose sword was entangledis the body of a fierce dragoon who had justwounded him. He was borne by his men into therear. I directed my men on Clavers. ‘ Victoryor death,’ was their reply to me. Clavers receivedus. He struck a desperate blow at me, as he raisedhimself, with all his force, in the saddle. My steelcap resisted it. The second stroke Lreceived onimy Ferrara, and his steel was shivered to piecesWe rushed headlong on each other. His pistolmissed fire—it had been soaked in blood. Minetook effect. But the wound was not deadly. Outhorses reared. We rolled on the ground. In vainwe sought to grarp each other. In the mr/c, menand horse tumbled on us. We were for a few' m0‘ments buried under our men, whose eagerness torsave their respective officers brought them in ir.ulietrtudos down upon us. By the aid of n.y fai'hfuiman Gawn, L had extricated myseif ftom my fe!!len horse ; and we Were rushing on the bloody Cla'Ivers, when we wcie again literally buried undermass of men ; for Hamilton had by thi; time bmughup his whole line, and he had planted his standarsich13where we and Gkvers were rolling on the hefcth.Oar men gave three cheers, and drove in the troopsof Clavers. Here I was borne along with the tnov«jpg mass of men ; and, almost suffocated, and lamtwish the loss of blood, I knew nothing more t il Iopened my eyes on my faithful attendant He haddragged me irom the very grasp of the enemy, andhad borne me into the rear, and was bathing mytemples with water. We speedily regained curfriends; and what a spectacle presented itself! — Itseemed that I beheld an immense moving massheaped up together in the greatest confusion.—Some shrieked, some groaned, se me shouted, hor¬ses neighed and pranced, swords rung on the steelhelmets- I placed around me a few of my hardymen, and we rushed into the thickest of the enemyin search ot Clavers; hut it was in vain. At thatinstant his trumpet sounded the loud notes of re¬treat; and we saw on a knoll'Clavers borne aw^yby his men. He threw himself on a horse, andwithout sword, without helmet, he fled in the firstranks of the retreating host. His troops gallopedup the hill in the utmost confusion. My little lineclosed with that of Burley’s, and took a number cfprisoners. Our main body pursued the enemy twomiles, and strewed the ground with men and hor¬ses. I could see the bareheaded Clavers in frontof his men, kicking and struggling np the steepsides of Calder hul. He halted only a momcatonthe top to lo'k behind Mm, then plunged his rew-cds into his horse, and darted forward ; nor did herecover from Iris panic till he found himself in tkecity of Ola gow."‘ And, my children,* the. Laird w< *14 say, afterhe had tcld the adventures < f this bloody day, ‘ [visited the field of battle nert day; I shall neverforget the sight. Men and horses lay in thtir gorybeds. I turned away fn m the horrible spectacle.14I passed by the spot where God saved my life inthe single combat, and where the unhappy CaptainArrol fell. 1 observed that, in the subsequent fray,the body had been trampled on by a horse, and hisbowels were poured out. Thus, my children, thedefence of our lives, and the regaining of our ii. fberty and religion, has subjected us to severe trials.And how great must be the love of liberty, whenit carries men forward, under the impulse of self-defence, to witness the most disgusting spectacles,and to encounter the most cruel hardships ®f war !’ 1B.Battle of Both well Bridge.“ Heu ! ficta jacet pietaj.”* * * After the ranks of the patriotic Whigswefe broken by overwhelming forces, and whileDalzell and Clavers swept the south and west ofScotland like the blast of the desert, breathing pes¬tilence and death—the individual wanderers betookthemselves to the caves and fastnesses of their rug¬ged country. This was their situation chiefly fromA. D. IflSO to the Revolution. The Laird spenthis days in seclusion ; but still lie fearlessly attend¬ed the weekly assemblies in the fields, for the wor¬ship of Almighty God. What had he to fear ?—Hif; estate had been confiscated. His wife and babesstripe by the life-guards of the last remnant of |earthly comfort which they could take away ; andhimself doomed, us an outlaw, to be executed bythe military assassins when taken. He becamereckless of the world.‘ I have lived,’ said he in anguish, ‘to see aPrince twice, of his own choice, take the oath ofii the covenants to support religion, and the funda*i mental laws of die land. I have lived to see thatPrince turn traitor to his country, and, with un«il blushing impiety, order these covenants to be burn¬ed by the hands of the executioner, I have seen. him subvert the liberty of my country, both civiland religious—I have seen him erect a bloody in¬quisition. The priests imposed on us by tyranny,instead of wooing us over by the loveliness of reli-Igion, have thrown off the bowels of mercy- Theyoccupy seats in the b'oody Council. They stimu¬late the cruelties of Lauderdale, MTvenzie andYork. Their hands are dipt in blood to the wrists.This Council will not permit us to live in peace.1 Our property they confiscate. Our houses theyconvert into barracks. They drag free men intochains. They bring no witnesses of our guilt.—They invent new tortures to convert us, They em¬ploy the thumb-screws and bootkins. If we aresilent they condemn us. If we confess our Chris¬tian creed, they doom us to the gibbet. Not onlyour sentence, but the manner of our execution, isfixed before our trial. Clavers is our judge; hisdragoons are our executioners ; and these savage*do still continue to employ even the sagacity ofblood hounds to hunt us down—My soul turnsaway from these loathsome spectacles.’At this moment his brother John entered, withlooks which betrayed unusual anxiety. “ My bro.tber,” said he, ‘ a trooper advances at full speed,and he is followed by a dark column. We havenot even time to fly.’—The m-nd of the Laird, likethose of the rest of the wanderers, always bright¬ened up at the approach of danger. ‘ Let us re¬connoitre,’ said he, ' What do I see, but one troop¬er. And that motley cloud is but a rabble—not atroop. That trooper is not of Clavers’ band ; mrdoes he belong to Douglas—nor to Inglis—nor toStrach^n’s dragoons. He waves a small flag. Ican iiscoves the scarlet and blue colour of the Cove¬nanters' flag—Ha ! welcome you, John Howie ofLochgoin—But what news ?—Lives our country ?Lives the good old cause ?*—‘ Glorious news,’ ex¬claimed Howie, ‘ Scotland for ever! She is free,The tyrant James has abdicated. The Stuarts arebanished by an indignant nation. Orange triumphs.Our wounds are binding up—Huzza! Scotland,and King William, and the Covenant for ever !Jfhe Laird made no reply. He laid Iris steel capon the ground, and threw himself on his knees ; heUttered a brief prayer, cf which this was the close :‘ My bleeding country, and thy wailing Kirk, andmy brethren in the furnace, have come in remem¬brance before thee. For ever lauded be thy name.’—* Hasten to the meeting at Lesmahagow. Ourfriends behind me, ynu see, have already set out/said Howie. And he set off with enthusiastic ar¬dour to spread the news.‘ These news,’ said the Laird, after a long pause,while Ids eyes followed the courser over the plainsof Aven—‘ These news are to me as life from thedead. 1 have a mind to meet mv old friends atLesmahagow. And then, when serious business isdispatched, we can take Bothwell field on our re¬turn. It will yield me at least a melancholy plea¬sure to visit the spot where we fought, I trust, ourlast battle against the enemies of our country, andcf the good old cause.*Serious matter* of church and state having beendiscussed at the public mcetmg, the brothers foundthemselves, on the fourth day, on the battle groundof Bothwell.‘ On that moor,’ said the Laird, after a long sil¬ence—and, without being conscious of it, he had,by a kind ofimtittet, natural enough to a soldier,drawn his sword, and was pointing with i:—‘ On17that moor the enemy first formed tinder Monmouth,There, on the right, players led cn the life-guards,breathing fury, and resolute to wipe off the disgracei of the affair of Drumclog. Dalzell formed his men, on that knoll. Lord Livingstone led the van of the' foemen. We had taken care lo.have BothwellI Bridge strongly secured by a barricade, and ourlittle battery of cannon was planted cn that spotbelow us, in order to sweep the bridge. And wedid rake it. The foemen’s blood st:earned there.Again and again the troops of the tyrant marchedion, and our cannon annihilated their columns. SirRobert Hamilton was our Commander in-Chief, The gallant General Hackstcne stood on that spotivith his brave men. Along the river, and aboveihe t-idge, Burley’s foot and Captain Nesbit’s dra-E>ons were stationed. For one hour we keot theemy in check ; ihey were defeated in ereiy at.a*nipt to cross the Clyde. Livingstone sent another:rong column to storm the bridge. I shall never>rget the effect of one fire from our battery, wherey men stood. We saw the line of the foe advancei all the military glory of br£*e and beautiful menje horses pranced—the armour gleamed, in oneoment nothing was seen but a shocking mass ofjortality. Human limlw, and the bodies andmbs of horses were mingled in one huge Leap, ori pw 11 a £rea^ distance. Another column at-npted to cross above tjie bridge. Some thfewtmselves into the current. One well-directed hi eBurley’s troops threw them into disorder,I drove them back. Meantime, while we were,'s warmly engaged, Hamilton was labouring totg down the different divisions of our main bodya action ; but in vain, he called on Colonel Cieb"s troop—in vain he crdeied Henderson’s to fall•in vain he called on Colonel Turning’s. Hack-b flew from troop to troop—all was confusion ;18in vain he besought, he intreated, he threatened.Our disputes and fiery misguided zeal, my brother,contracted a deep and deadly guilt that day. TheWhig turned his arm in fierce hate that day againsthis own vitals. Our Chaplains, Cargil, and King,and Kid, and Douglas, interposed again and again.Cargil mounted the pulpit; he preached concord;he called aloud for mutual forbearance. ‘ Behold Ithe banners of the enemy,’ cried he; ‘ hear ye notthe fire of the foe, and of our own brethren ? Our |brothers and fathers are falling beneath their sword. |Hasten to their aid. See the flag ot ths Covenant. JSee the motto in letters of gold—‘ Christ’s Crown jand the Covenant.’ Hear the voice of your weep* iing country. Hear the wailings ot the bleedingsKirk. Banish discord. And let us, as a b.tnd oil;!brothers, present a bold front to the foeinen *"? j:low me, all ye who love your country and the CoijTenant. I go to die in the fore-front ot the batile.ij.All the ministers and officers followed him—amidst!,a flourish of trumpets—but the great body remain?ed to listen to the harangues of the facttous.-rWe sent again and again for ammunition. My irejwere at the last round. Fi eacher y, or a fatal etror, had sent a barrel ot raisins in-tead of povvcieilj.My heart sunk within me while I beheld the despatfon the faces of my brave fellows, as I struck <j|the head of the vessel. Hackstone called h:s offcers to him. We threw ourselves around him.-!‘ What must be done ?’ said he, in an agony of dtspair. ‘ Conquer or die ;* we said, as if with Wvoice. ‘ We have ourswi* is yet.- Lead back ftmen to their places, and let the ensign bear do'<the blue and scarlet colours. Our God and o,country be the word.* Hackstone rushed forwa. -We ran to our respective corps—we cheered IT >?.men, but they were lariguid and dispirited. 1«,ammunition was nearly expended, and they seei| ‘j .19anxious to husbard what remained. They foughtonly with their carabines. 1 he cannons could nomore be loaded. The enemy scon perceived this.We saw a troop of horse approach the bridge. Itwas that of the life-guards, I recognized the plumeof Clavers. They approached in rapid inarch. Asohd column ef infantry follow ed. I sent a requestto Captain Nesbit to join his troop to mine. Hewae in an instant with us—We charged the life-guards. Our swords rung on their steel caps.—Many of my brave lads fell on all sides of me. Butwe hewed down the foe. T hey began to reel—The whole column was kept stationary on thebridge. Clavers’ dreadful voice was heard—morelike the yell of a savage, than the commandingit voice of a soldier. He pushed forward his men,; and again we hewed them do-vn. A third masswas pushed up. Our exhausted dragoons fled —Unsupported, 1 found myself by the brave Nesbit,and Baton, and Haekstone. We looked for a mo-d ment’s space in silence on each other. We gallop,tied in front of our retreating men. We ralliediiithem. We pointed to the General almost alone.ViWe pointed to the white and to the scarlet coloursdjilfloating near him. We cried, ‘ God and our Coun-yttry.’ They faced about. We charged Claversrwonce more.—‘ Torfoot,’ ciied Nesbit, ‘ I dare youIoito the fore-front of the battle.’ We rushed up atlitull gallop. Our men seeing this, followed also at.iufull speed We broke down the enemy’s lire, bear-^f.ng down those files which we encountered. Wencut our way through their ranks. But they had/mow lengthened their front. Superior numbersirove us in. They had gained entire possession ofI he bridge. Livingstone and Dalzell were actuallya aking us on the flank—band had got between: is and Burley’s infantry. ‘ My friends,’ said Ha:k-Qtpone to his officers, ‘ we are last on the field. We20can do no more—We mast fetreat.—Let us at¬tempt, at least, to bring aid to toe deladod minbehind us. They have brought ruin on themselvesand on us. Not Manmou^, but our own divisionshave scattered us.'At this moment one of the life-guards aimed ablow at Hackstone, My sword received it—and astroke from Nesbit laid the foeman’s hand andS’^ord in the dust. He fainted and tumbled fromhis saddle. We reined our horses, and gallopedto our main body- But what a scene presenteditsell here ! These misguided men had their eyesnow fully opened bn their fatal errors. The enemywere bringing up their whole force against them.I was not long a near spectator of it; for a ballgrazed my courser- He p-uoged and reared—thenshot off like an arrow. Several of our officers drewto the same place. On a knoll we faced about—the battle raged below us. We beheld cur com¬mander doing every thing that ?. brave soldiercould do with factious men against an overpower¬ing foe, Burley and nis troops were in close con¬flict with Clavers' dragoons. We saw him dis¬mount three troopers with his own hand. He couldnot turn the tide of battle, but he was covering theretreat of these nvsguidsd men. Before we couldrejoin him, a party threw’ themselves in our way.Keunoway, one of Clavers’ officers, led them on.‘ Would to God that this was Grahame himself,’some of my comrades ejaculated aloud ‘ He fallsto my share,’ said I, 1 whoever the officer be ’—I advanced—h* met me. I parried several thrusts.He received a cut on the left.arm ; and the sword,by the same stroke, shore olP one of his horse’sears; it plunged and reared. We closed again,1 receive 1 a stroke on the left shoulder. My blowf ell on his sword arm. He reined his horse around,retreated a few’ paces, then returned at full gallop.21. My courser reared itutinctively as his approached.II received his stroke on the back of my ferrara;and by a back stroke, I «ave him a deep cut oathe cheek. And before he could recover a positionof defence, my sword fell with a terrible blow onhis steel cap. Stunned by the^blow, he bent him¬self forward—and, grasping the mane, he tumbledf rom his sadele, and his steed galloped over theitield. I did not repeat the blow. His left handpresented his sw. rd ; his right arm was disabled;liis life was given to him. My companions havingdisposed of their antagonists, (and some of themhad two • piece,'; we paused to see the fate of the ^i: attle. D.ileeU aad Livingstone were riding overhe field, like furies, cutting down all in their way.idon mouth was galloping from rank to rank, andailing on his men to give quarter. Clavcrs, totripe off the disgrace of Drumclog, was commit-ing feaiful havoc. ‘Can vre not find Clavers,*/aid Ha),head.—‘ No,’ said Captain Paton, ‘ the gal*:unt Colonel takes care to have a solid guard of nisIpgues about him. I have sought him over the•/eld; but I found him, as I now perceive him,l|ith a mass of his guards about him.’ At this in¬fant we saw our General, at some distance, dis-lEi<|;itanglirg himself from tire men vvho had tumb-i d over him in the mels. His face, and hands, andLiothes, were covered with gore. He had beenH|smour,ted, ar. l was lighting on foot. We rush-n to the spot, and cheered him Our parly drovej.i lick the scattered bands of Dalzell. ‘ My friends,*d Sir Robert, as we mounted him on a strayrse, ‘ the day is lost! But—you, ^aton; you,ownlte of forfoot, and you Halhead ; let not\t flag fall into the hands of these incarnate de¬ls. We have lost the battle, but, by the graceilGod, neither Dalzell nor Clavers shall say’thatkook our colours. My ensign has done his duty.22He is down, This sword has sared it twice. Ileave it to your care. You see its perilous situa¬tion.’ He pointed with his sword to the spot.—We collected some of our scattered troops, and flewto the place. The standard bearer was down, buthe was still fearlessly grasping the flag staff, whilehe was borne upright by the mass of men who hadthrown themselves in fierce contest around it. Itswell known blue and scarlet colours, and its motto** ('wrist’s cro wk and covenant,’ in brilliant gold,letters, inspired us with a sacred enthusiasm -*We gave a loud cheer to die wounded ensign, andi)rushed into the combat. The redemption of that,!)fl tg cost the foe many a gallant man. They felMbeneath our broad swords; and, with horrible exJLaerations dying on their lips, they gave up theitjLsouls to their Judge.Here I met in fruit that ferocious dragoon olfClavers, named Tam Kalliday, who had monrithan once, in his raids, plundered my halls; antiha 1 snatched the bread from my weeping babeslfHe had j ist seized the white staff of the flag. Buf-his tremendous oath of exultation, (we of the cc|Lvenant never swear)—bis oath had scarcely passel,:its polluted threshold, when this Andro Ferrarifell on the guard of his steel, and shivered it tlpieces. 4 Recreant loon ?’ said 1, 4 thou shall thi.day remember thy evil deeds.’ Another blow ajhis helmet laid him at his huge length, and rmcjihim bite the dust. In thu mele that followed, I lalfsight of him. We fought like lions—but with tilhearts of Ctiristians. While my gallant companioi|i «stemmed the tide of battle, the standard, rent |tatteis, fell across my breast I toie it from i:®nstaff, and wrapt it round my body. We cut aj;way through the enemy, and carried our Genera,eff the fieldHaving gained a smtll kn^l!, w* beheld otji11 more the dreadful spectacle belovr. Thick volumesr, of smoke and dust rolled in a lazy cloud over the| dark bands mingled in deadly fray. It was noii longer a battle, but a massacre. In the struggle(of my feelings I turned my eyes on the Generaltijiand Paton. I saw, in the face of the latter, anI indescribable conflict of passions. His long andshaggy eyebrows were drawn over his eyes. Hisihand grasped his sword. ‘ 1 cannot yet leave theifield,' said the undaunted Paton —‘ With the Gene.Krai’s pKrmis'sion, I shall try to save some of ourwretched men beset by those hell hounds. Whoiwill go?—U Kilsyth l saw service. When de¬serted by my troop, I cut my way through Mon-(Ktrose’s men, and reached the spot where ColonelsliHalket and Strachan were. We left the field to-gether. Fifteen dragoons attacked us- We cut•'down thirteen, and two fled. Thirteen next as-i sailed us. We left ten on the field, and three fled.[Eleven Highlanders next met us. We paused, andireheered each other. ‘ Now, Johnny,’ cried Halketto me, • put forth your metal, else we are gone.’- Nine others we sent after their comrades, and twoBed Now, who will join this raid ‘ I will»e your leader,’ said Sir Robert, as we fell intoILhe ranksWe marched on the enemy’s flank. ‘ Yonder is,players,’ said Paton, while he directed his courserpn him The bloody man was, at that moment,iiearly alone, hacking to pieces some poor fellowsalready on their knees disarmed, and imploringnim by the common feelings of humanity to spare'! * This chivalrout defence is recorded. 1 find in the Kfe of■japtain Paton. in the ‘ Scots Worthies,’ Kdin. edit, of A-l)..1512 I hn c< lefcrated Officer was trained up to warfare inLieaitny of Charles Gustavus, King of Sweden. This is ajetimen of those heroic Whig; who jirougbt ahnst ftie R*.-(ntation of A, D. 16SS,2*their lives. He had just finished his usual oafhaginst their ‘ feelings of humanity,’ when Patoupresented'himself. He instantly let go his prey,and slunk back into ;he midst of his troopers. Hav«|ing formed them, he advanced.—We formed, and /made a furious onset. At our first charge his troop |reeled. Clavers was dismounted,—But at that mo*!ruent Dalzell assailed us on the flank and rear.—Our men fell around us like gi ass before the mow-/,er. The buglemen sounded a retreat. Once more1in the mete f fell in with the General and Paton.We were covered with wounds. We directed ourflight in the rear of our broken troops. By the drrection of the General I had unfurled the standard.It was borne off the field flying at the sword’spoint. But that honour cost me much. I was as*^sailed by three fierce dragoons ; five followed closin the rear. I called to Paton,—in a moment hepwas by my sid<>. I threw the standard to :he Ge-Ineral, and we rushed on the foe They fell beneathour swords ; but my faithful steed, which had ca-ricd me through all my dangers, was mortallywounded, He fell. I was thrown in among thefallen enemy. I fainted. I opened my eyes ormiiery, 1 found myself in the presence oi Monroou'.h—a prisoner—with other wretched creaturesawa tirg, in awful suspence, their ultimate des|tiny.”***** *W. C1' I N I S.