4-THE ** ^LONG PACK;'on, aSHOT WITH COPENHAGEN.CONTAININGAn Account of the accidental discovery of amost ingenious mode of Robbery.TROM HOGG’s “ WINTJER EVENING TALKS.”ALSO, FROM THE SAME WORK,The Dreadful Story of Macpherson.STIRLING;PRINTED BY WILLIAM MACNII,Anil Solil Wholesale awl 1’tU'L( v of SCOTLAND ,•THE LONG PACK.IN the year 1723, Colonel Ridley returned jfrom India, with what, in those-days, wasaccounted an imunence fortune, aiwhretired to acountry seat on the banks of North Tyne inNorthumberland. The house was rebuilt arf&Lfurnished with every thing elegant and costly ; 'and amongst others, a service at plate supposedto be worth d?]Q00. He went to London an- |jnadfiy with his family, during a few of the win¬ter months, and at these times there were batfew left at his country house. At the time wetreat of, there were only three domestics remain¬ed! there; a maid servant, whose nam® wasAlice, kept the house, and there were besides,an old man and a boy, the one threshed thecorn, and the other took care of some cattle, for ‘jthe two ploughmen were boarded in bowses of |their own.One afternoon os Alice was sitting spinningsome yarn for a pair of stockings to herself, apedlar entered the hall with a comical pack on hisback. Alice had seen as long a pack, and as ■ .broad a pack ; but a pack equally long, broad, ,and tliick, she declared she never saw. It was iabout the middle of winter, when the days were jshort, and the nights cold, long, and wearisome. .The pedlar was a handsomo* well-dressed man, ,and very likely to be a vevy agreeable companion cJfor such a maid as Alice, on such a night as that;yet Alice declared, that from the very first shedid not like.him greatly, and though he intro¬duced himself with a little ribaldry, and a greatdeal of flattery interlarded, yet when he came toask a night’s lodging, he r"et with a peremptoryrefusal; he jested on the subject, said he believ¬ed she was in the right, for that it would scarcelybe safe to trust him under the* same roof withsuch a sweet and beautiftd creature—Alice wasan old maid, and any thing but beautiful—Hethen took her on his knee, caressed and kissedher, but ^11 would not do. “ No, she would notconsent to his staying there.” “ But are youreally going to put me away to night ?” “ Yes.”“ Indeed, my dear girl, you must not be so un¬reasonable ; I am come straight from Newcastle,where I have been purchasing a fresh stock ofgoods, which are so heavy, that I cannot travelfar with them, and as the people around are allof the poorer sort, I will rather make you a pre¬sent of the finest sha wl in my pack before I gofurther.” At the mentioning of the shawl, thepicture of deliberation was pourtrayed in livelycc^purs on Alice's face for a little ; but her pfudeuce,overcame. “ No, she was but a servant,and had orders to harbour no person about thehouse but such as came on business, nor theseeither, unless she was weilacquainted with them.”“.What the worseyou,or yourtn8ster,or anyone else be, Of suffering ;:>e to tarry until themorning?” “I entaeat you not insist, forhere you cannot be.” But indeed* I .am notable to canty my goads further to-night.” “ Then4y&u must leave them, or get a horse to carry thep$away.” “ Of all the sweet inflexible beings thatever were made, you certainly are the chief.But I cannot blame you, your resolution is justand right. WCl, well, since no better may be,I must leave them, and go search for lodgingsmyself somewhere else, for, fatigued as I am, itis'as much as my life is worth to endeavour car¬rying them further.” Alice was rather taktn athtfr word: she wanted nothing to do with hisgoods : the man was displeased at her, and mightaccuse her of stealing some of them; but it wasan alternative she had proposed, and againstwhich she could start no plausible objection; soshe consented, though with much reluctance—“ But the pack will be better out of your way,”said he, “ and safer, if you will be so kind aslock it by in some room or closet.” She thenled him into a low parlour, wftere he placed itcarefully on two chairs, and weot away, wishingAlice a good night.When old Alice and the pack were left toge¬ther in the large house by themselves, she felt akindof undefined terror come over her mind aboutit. “ What can be in it,” said she to herself,“ that makes it so heavy ?n Surely when the mancarried it this length, he might have carried itfarther too—It is a confoundedly queer pack ;I’ll go and look at it once again, and see what Ithink is in it; and suppose I should handle it allround, I may then herhaps have a good guesswhat is it in."Alice went cautiously and fearfully into tkeparlour and or/e^ed a wall-press—she wanted bo-.5thing in the press, indeed she never looked intoit, for her eyes were fixed on the pack, and thelonger she looked at it, she liked it the woise;and as to handling it, she would not have touchedit for all that it contained. She carce again intothe kitchen and conversed with herself. Shethought of the man’s earnestness to leave it—ofits monstrous shape, and every circumstance con¬nected with it—d'hey were all mysterious, andshe was convinced in her own mind, that therewas something uncanny if not unearthly in thepack.What surmises will not fear give rise to in themind of a woman ! She lighted a moulded can¬dle, and went again into the parlour, closed thewindow shutters, and barred them; but beforeshe came out, she set herself upright, held in herbreath, and took another steady mid scrutinizinglopk of the pack. God of mercy ! she saw itmoving, as visibly as she ever saw any thing inher life Every hair on her head stood upright.Every inch of flesh on her body crept like a pestof pismires. She hasted into the kitchen as fastas she could, for her knees bent under the terrorthat had overwhelmed the heart of poor Alice.She puffed out the candle, lighted it again, and,not being able to find a candlestick, though adozen stood on the shelf in the fore kitchen, sheset it in a water-jug, and ran ut to the barn forold Richard. “Oh, Richai l! Oh, for mercy,Richard, make haste, and come into the house.Come away, Eichard.” “ Why, what is the mat¬ter. Alice ? what is wrong ?” “ Oh, Richard ! apedlar came into the hall entreating for lodgir -.6Well, I would not let him stay on any account,,and behold, he b gone off and left his pack.”“ And what is the great matter in that ?” saidRichard “ I will wager a penny he will lookafter it, before it shall look after him.” “ But,oh Richard, I tremble to tell you ! We are allgone, for it is a living pack.” “ A living pack !”said Richard, staring at Alice, and letting his.chops fall down. Richard had just lifted his flailover his head to begin threshing a sheaf; butwhen he heard of a living pack, he dropped oneend of the hand-staff to the floor, r nd leaning on •the other, took such a look at Alice. He knewlong before that Alice was beautiful; he knewthat ten years before, but he never took such alook at her in his life. “ A living pack !” saidRichard. “ Why the woman is mad without alldoubt.” “ Oh, Richard ! come away. Heavenknows what is in it! but I saw it moving soplainly as I see you at present. Make haste, andcome away Richard.” Richard did not stand toexpostulate any longer, nor even to pi>t on hiscoat, but followed Alice into the house, assuringher by the way, that it was nothing but a whim,and of a piece with many of her phantasies.“ Bu|,” added he, “ of all the foolish ideas thatever possessed your brain, that is the most un¬feasible, unnatural, and impossible. How can >a pack, made up of napkins, and muslins, andcorduroy breeches, perhaps, ever become alive ?It is even worse than to suppose a horse’s hairwill turn an eel.” So saying, he lifted the can¬dle out of the jug, and turning about, never stop¬ped till he had laid his hand on the pack, He7felt the deals that surrounded its edges to presentthe goods being rumpled and spoiled by carrying,the cords that bound it, and the canvas in whichit was wrapped. “ The pack was well enough,he found nought about it that other packs wanted.It was just like other packs made up the samestuff. He saw nought that ailed it. And a goodlarge pack it was. It would cost the honest mandPaOO, if not more. It would cost him d?800 or£350 if the goods were fine. But he would makeit all up again by cheating fools like Alice, withhis gewgaws.” Alice testified some little disap¬pointment at seeing Richard unconvinced, eve*by ocular proof. She wished she had never seenhim or it howsomever ; for she was convincedthere was something mysterious about it; thatthey were stolen goods or something that way ;and she was terrified to stay in the house with it.But Richard assured her th* pack was a rightenough pack.During this conversation, in comes Edward.He %as a lad about sixteen years of age, son toa coal-driver on the border—was possessed of agood deal'of humour and ingenuity, hut some¬what roguish, forward, and cdmmonly#Very rag¬ged in his apparel. He was about this timewholly intent on shooting the crows and birds ofvarious kinds, that alighted in whole flocks wherehe foddered the cattle. He had bought a hugeold military gun, which he denominated Copen¬hagen, and was continually thundering away atthem. He seldom killed any, if ever; but heonce or twice knocked off a few feather^, andafter much narrow inspection, discovered some8drops oF blood on the snow. He was at this verymomcrit come in a great haste for Copenhagenhaving seen a glorious chance of sparrows, anda Robin-red-breast among them, feeding on thesite of a corn rick, but hearing them talk ofsomething mysterious, and a living pack, hepricked up his ears, and was all attention.—“ Faith, Alice,” said he, “ if you will let me,I’ll shoot it.” “ Hold your peace, you fool,”said Richard. Edward took the candle fromRichard, who still hqld it in his hand, and, glid¬ing down the passage, edging up the parlourdoor,and watched the pack attentively for about twominutes. He then came back with a spring, andwith looks very different from those ^hich re¬gulated his features as he went down. As sureas he had death to meet with he saw it stirring.“ Hold your peace, you fool,” said Richard.Edward swore again that he saw it stirring; butwhether he really thought so, or only said se, ishard to determine. “ Faith, Alice,” said heagain, “ if you will let me, I’ll shoot it.” “ Itell you to hold your peace, you fool,” saidRichard. “ No,” said Edward, “ in the multi¬tude o/ counsellors there is safety; and I willmaintain this to be our safest plan. Our master'shouse is consigned to our care, and the wealththat it contains my tempt some people to dsestratagems. Now, we if open up the man’s pack,he may pursue us for damages to any amount,hut if I shoot it what amends can he get of me ?If there is any thing that should not be there.Lord how I will pepper it ! And if it is lawfulgoods, he can only make me pay for the few that9are damaged, which I will get a valuation ; so,if none of you will acquiesce, I will take all theblame upon myself, and ware a shot upon it.”Ri#hard said whatever was the consequence hewould be blameless. A half delirious smile ra¬ther distorted than beautified Alice’s pretty face,but Edward took it for an assent to what he hadbeen advancing, so, snatching up Copenhagenin one hand, and the candle in the other, hehasted dowm the passage, and without hesitatingone moment, fired at the pack. Gracious Hea¬ven • The blood gushed out upon the floor likea torrent, and a hideous roar, followed by thegroaas of death, issued from the pack. Edwarddropped Coppenhagen upon the ground, and raninto the kitchen like one distracted. The kitchenwas darkish, for he had left the candle in theparlour; so taking to the door without being ableto utter a word, he ran to the hills like a wikiroe, looking over each shoulder as fast as he couldturn his head from the one side to the other.—Alice followed as fast as she could, but lost halfthe way of Edward. She was all the way sigh¬ing ami crying most pitifully. Old Richard stoodfor a shor£ space rather in a state of petrefaction,but, at length, after some hasty ejaculations, he.went into the parlour. The whole floor flowedwith blood. The pack had thrown itself on theground; but the groans and cries were ceased,and only a kind f guttural noise was heard frem.it. Knowing that then something must be done,he ran after his companions and called on themto come back. Though Edward had escaped agood way, and was still persevering on, yet, as10he never took long time to consider of the utilityof any thing, but acted from immediate impulse,he turned and came as fast back as he had gonea.way. Alice ako came homeward, but moreslowly, and crying even more bitterly than be¬fore. Edward overtook her, and was holding onhis course ; hut, as !}e passed, she turned aWayher face, and called him a murderer. At thesound of this epithet Edward made a dead pause*and looked at Alice with a face much longer thanit used to be. He drew in his breath twice, asif going to speak, but he only swallowed a greatmouthful of air, and held his peace.They were soon all three in the parlour* and’I Ho I.ittle terror and agitation of mind unloosedthe pack, the principtl commodity of which wasa stout young man, whom Edward had shotthrough the heart, and thus bereaved of existencein a few minutes. To paint the feelings, or eventhe appearance of young Edward, during thisscene is impossible ; he acted little, spoke less,and appeared in a hopeless stupor ; the most ofhis employment consisted in gulping downmouthfuls of breath, wiping his eyes, and staringat his associates.ly is most generally believed, that when Ed¬ward fired at the pack, he had not the most dis¬tant idea of shooting a man ; hut seeing Alice sojealous of it he thought the Colonel would ap¬prove of his intrepidity, and protect him fromlieing wronged by the pedlar ; and besides, hehad never got a chance of a shot at such a largething in his life, and was curious to see how manyfolds of the pedlar’s fine haberdashery ware Co-i^=--—11penhagen would drive the drops through, so thatwhen the stream of blood burst from the pack,accompanied with the dying groans of a humanbeing, Edward was certainly taken by surprise,and quite confounded ; he indeed asserted, aslong as he lived, that he saw something stirringin the pack, but his eagerness to shoot, and histerror on seeing what he had don®, which was nomore than what he might have expected, had hebeen certain he saw the pack moving, makes thisasseveration very doubtful. They made all pos¬sible speed in extricating the corpse, intendingto call medical assistance, but it was too late ;the vital spark was gone for ever. “ Alas !” saidold Richard, heaving a deep sigh, “ poor man,I’tis all over with him ! I wish he had lived a lit¬tle longer to have repented ©f this, for he hassurely died in a bad cause. Poor man ! he wassomebody’s son, and no doubt dear to them, andnobody can tell how small a crime this hath, bya regular gradation, become the fruits of.” Rich¬ard came twice across his eyes with the sleeve ofhis shirt, for he stiM wanted the coat; a thoughtof a tender nature shot through his heart. “ Alas,If his parents are rfive how will their hearts bearthis, poor creatures !” said Richard, weepingoutright, “ poor creatures ! God pity them !”The way that he was packed up was artful and1 curious. His knees were brought up towards hisbreast, and his feet and legs stuffed in a woodenbo"'; another wooden box, a size larger, andwanting the bottom, made up the vacancy be¬twixt his face and knees, and there being onlyone fold of canvass around this, he breathed withuthe greatest freedom; butit bad undoubtedly beenthe heaving of bis breast which had caused themovement noticed by the servants. His rightarm was within the box, and to his hand wastied a cutlass, with which he could rip himselffrom his confinement at once. There were alsofour loaded pistols secreted with him, and a silverwind-call. On coming to the pistols and cirtlass.“ Villain,” said old iiichard, “ see what he hashere. Hut I should not call him villain,” said heagain, softening his tone, “ for he is now goneto answer at that bar where no false witness, norloquacious orator, can bias the justice of the sen¬tence pronounced on him. He is now in thetrue world, and I am in the false one. We canjudge only from appearances, but thanks to ourkind Maker and Preserver, that he was discover¬ed, else it is probable that none 'of us should havdagain seen the light of day.” These moral reflec¬tions from the mouth of old Richard by degreesraised the spirits of Edward : he was bewilderedin uncertainty, and had undoubtedly given him¬self up for lost; but he now began to discoverthat he had done a meritorious and manful action,and for the first time, since he had fired the fatalshot, ventured to speak, “ Faith it was lucky that1 shot, then,” said Edward; hut neither of hiscompanions answered either good or bad. Alice,though rather grown desperate, behaved and as¬sisted at this bloody affair, better than might havebeen expected. Edward surveyed the pistols allround, two of which were of curious workman¬ship. “ But what do you think he was going to1 *.i n .1 _ s'>13need not ask that,5' Richard answered, “ Faithit tvas a mercy that I shot after ail,” said Edward,u for if we had loosed him out, wa should havebeen all dead in a minute. I have given him adevil of a broadside, though. But look ye, Rich¬ard, Providence has directed me to the right spot,for I might as readily have lodged the contents ofCopenhagen in one of these empty boxes.’1 “ Ithas been a deep laid scheme,” said Richard, “ tonaurder us, and rob our master’s house ; theremust certainly be more concerned in it than thesetwo.”Ideas beget ideas, often quite different, andthen othersagain in unspeakable gradation, whichrun through and shift in the mind with as muchvelocity as the streamers around the pole in afrosty night. On Richard’s mentioning moreconcerned, Edward instantaneously thought of agang of thieves by night,—How he would breakthe leg of one:—shoot another through the head—ami scatter them like chaff before the wind.He would rather shoot one robber on his feet oron horseback than ten lying tied up in packs ; andthen what a glorious prey of pistols he would getfrom the dead rascals—how he would prime andload and fire away with perfect safety from with¬in !—how Alice would scream, and Richardwould pray, and all would go on with the noiseand rapidity of a windmill, and he would acquireeverlasting fame. So high was the young andardent mind of Edward wrought up by this trainof ideas, that he was striding up and down thefloor, while his eyes gleamed as with a tint ofmadness. “ Oh ! if I had but plenty of guns,14and nothing ado but to shoot, how I would pep¬per the dog !” said he with great vehemence ; tothe no small astonishment of his two associates,who thought him gone mad “ What can thefool mean,” gaid old Richard, “ What can heail at the dogs ?” “ Oh, it is the robber's that Imean,” said Edward. “ What robbers, youyoung fool ?” said Richard. “ Why, do not youthink that tlte pedlar will come back at the deadof the aright to the assistance of his friend, andbring plenty of help with him too,” said Edward.“ There is not a doubt of it,” said old Richard.“ There is not a doubt of it,” said Alice, andboth stood up stiff with fear and astonishment.“ Oh ! merciful Heaven ! what is to become ofus,” said Alice again, “ What are we to do?”“ Let us trust in the Lord,” said old Richard.“ I irrteikl, in the first place, to trust in old Co¬penhagen,” said Edward, putting down the friz-zel, and making it spring up again with a loudsnap five or six times. “ But, good Lord ! whatare we'thinking about ? I’ll run and gather inall the guns in the country.” The impulse of the ymoment was Edward s monitor. Off he ran likefire, and warned a few oT the Colonel’s retainers,who he knew kept guns about them ; these againwarned others, and at eight o’clock they hadtwenty-five men in the house, and sixteen loadedpieces, including Copenhagen, and the four pis¬tols found on the deceased. These were distri¬buted amongst the front windows in the upperstories, and the rest armed with pitchforks, oldswords, and cudgels, kept watch below. Edwardhad taken care to place himself, with a comrade,155 at a window immediately facing the approach tof the house, and how, backed as he was by such astrong party, grew quite impatient for another1 chance with bis redoubted Copenhagen, All,however, remained quit© until an hour past mid-! night, when it entered into his teeming brain toblow the thief’s silver wind-call ; so, without!ij warning any of the rest, he sent his head out gtthe window, and blew until all the hills andwoods around yelled their echoes. This alarmedthe guards, as not knowing the meaning of inbut how were they astonished at hearing it anTswered by another at no great distance. The:: state of anxiety into which this sudden and ein-i foreseen circumstance threw cur armed peasants,i is more easily conceived than described. Theill fate of their master’s great wealth, and even their!j> own fates, was soon to be decided, and none buti|l he who surveys and over-rides futurity could tellr what was to be the issue. Every breast heaved|j) quicker, every breath was cut short, every gun, was cocked and pointed toward the court-gate,b every orb of vision was strained to discover theI approaching foe, by the dim light of the starrycanopy, and every car expanded to catch the dis¬tant sounds as they floated on the slow frostybreeze.The suspence w'as not of long continuance. Inless than five minutes the trampling of horsesi was heard, which increased as they approachedto the noise of thunder, s»d in due course, a bodyp of men on horseback, according to the account2 given by the Colonel’s people, exceeding th#r• own number, came up at a brisk trot, and began16> »to enter the coart-gate. Edward, unable to re¬strain himself any longer, fired Copenhagen intheir faces ; one of the foremost dropped, and hishorse made a spring towards the hall door. Thisdischarge was rather pfemature, as tli<i wall stillshielded a part of the gang from the windows.It was, however, the w'atehWord to all the rest,and in the course of two'seconds, the whole six¬teen guns Were discharged at them. Hefore the'smoke dispersed they were all fled, no doubtgreatly amazed at the reception which they metwith. Edward and his comrade ran down stairsto see how matters stood, fbr it was their opini,on that they had shot them every one, and thattheir horses had taken fright at the noise, andi gallopped off* without them ; but the club belowwarmly protested against their opening the doortill day, so they were obliged to betake themselvesagain to their birth up stajrs.> Though our peasants had gathered np a littlecourage and confidence in themselves, their situ¬ation was curious, and to them a dreadful one ;they saw and heard a part of their fellow' crea¬tures moaning and expiring in agonies in the openair, which war, intensely cold, t et durst not goto administer the least relief, for fear of a sur¬prise. An hour or two after this great brush,Edward and his messmates descended again, andbegged hard for leave to go and reconnoitre fora few minutes, which after some disputes wasgranted. They found onlv four men fallen, whoappeared to he all quite dead. Oneofthem waslying within the porch. “ Faith,” said Edward,,‘‘ here’s the chap that I shot.” The other therewere without at a considerable distance from eachother. They durst not follow their tract farther,as the road entered betwixt groves of trees, butretreated into their posts without touching anything.About an hour before day, some of them werealarmed at hearing the sound of horses feet asecond time, which, however, was only indistinctand heard at considerable intervals, and nothingof them ever appeared, Not long after this,Edward and his friend were almost frightened outof their wits, at seeing, as they thought, the deadman within the gate, endeavouring to get up and» escape They had seen him dead, lying surrpund-Ied by a deluge of congealed blood, and nothingbut the ideas of ghosts and hobgoblins enteringtheir brains, they were so indiscreet as never tothink of firing, but ran and told the tale of hor¬ror to some of their neighbours The skv wasby this time grown so dark, that nothing couldbe seen with precision, and they all remained inanxious incertitude, until the opening day dis¬cover. d to them, by degrees, that the corpseswere removed, and nothing left but large sheets; of frozen blood, and the morning’s alarms by theI ghost and the noise of horses, had been occasion¬ed by some of the friends of the men that hadfallen, conveying them away for fear of a dis¬covery.Next morning the news flew like fire, and thethree servants were much incommoded by crowdsof idle and officious people that gathered aboutthe house, some inquiring after the smallest par-| tit-ulars, some begging to sec live body that lay18in the parlour, and others pleased themselves withporing over the sheets of crimson ice, and tracingthe drdps of blood on the road down the wood.The Colonel had no country factor, nor any par¬ticular friend in the neighbourhood, S0 the af¬fair was not pursued with that speed which wasrequisite to the discovery of the accomplices,whiclijf it had, would have been productive ofsome very unpleasant circumstances, by involvingsundry respectable families, as it afterwards ap¬peared but too evidently. Dr. Herbert, the phy¬sician, who attended the family occasionally,wrote to the Colonel, by post, concerning tneaffair, but though he lost no time, it was the fifthday before he arrived. Then indeed advertise¬ments were issued, and posted up in all publicplaces, offering rewards for a discovery of anyperson killed or wounded of late. All the deadand sick within twenty miles were inspected bymedical men, and a most extensive search made,but to no purpose. It was too late : all was se¬cured. Some indeed were missing, but plausiblepretences being made for their absence, nothing-could be done. But certain it is, sundry of thesewere never seen any more in the country, thoughmany of the neighbourhood declared they weresuch people as nobody cowld suspect.'1 he body of the unfortunate man, who wasshot hv the pack, lay open for inspection a fort-i.' jjhr, but none would ever acknowledge so muchas having seen him. 1 he Colonel then causedhim to be buried at Bellingham ; but it was con-Kently reported, that his grave was opened andcorpse taken away. In short, not one en-19: ;j gaged in this base and bold attempt was ever dis->)j covered. A constant watch was kept by night>j for some time. The Colonel rewarded the de-l fenders of his house liberally Old Richard re-li mained jn the family during the rest of his life,! and had « good salary for only saying prayersamongst the servants every night. Alice wasii married to a tobacconist at Hexam. Edward was■(, made the Colonel's gamekeeper, and had a pre-i sent of a fine gold mounted gun-given him. Hisi master afterwards procured him a commission ini a regiment of foot, where he suffered many mis-! fortunes and disappointments He was shoti through the shoulder at the battle of Fonteuoy,I! but recovered, aud retiring -xi half-pay, took aI ^mtill farm on die Scottish side. His characterii' was that of a brave, but rash officer ; kind, gen¬ii erous, and open-hearted in all situations. I have} often stood at his knee and listened with wonderI and amazement to his stories of battle* and seiges,I but none of them ever pleased me better than that* of the Lonjg Pack.Alas ! his fate is fast approaching to us all !1 he hath many years ago submitted to the con-» queror of all mankind. His brave heart is nowj a clod of the valley, and his gray hairs recline iupeace on that pillow, from which his head shalli be raised only when time shall he no more..THEDi •eadful Story of Macpjiersoh.I received yours of the 20th October, intreat¬ing me to furnish you with the tale, which yousay you have heard me relate, concerning themiraculous death of Major Macpherson, and hisassociates, among the Grampian hills. I thinkthe story worthy of being preserved, but I neverheard it related save once ; and though it thenmade a considerable impression on my miV.d, be¬ing told by one who was well acquainted bothwith the scene and the sufferers, yet I fear mymemory is not sufficiently accurate, with regardto particulars ; and without these the intesest ofa story is always diminished, and its authenticityrendered liable to be caJled in question. I willhowever conummioate it exactly as it remains im¬pressed on my naemory, without avouching forthe particulars relating to it; in these I shall sub¬mit to be corrected by such as are better in¬formed.I have forgot what year it happened, hut Ifchink it was about the year 1805-6, that MajorMaepberson and a few gentlemen of his acquain¬tance, with their attendants, went out to hunt inthe middle of that tremendous range of moun-tains which rise between Athol and Badenoyh.i£1Many are llie spenes of wild gandeur and rug¬ged deformity which amaze.the wanderer in the'Grampian deserts: but Bone of them surpassesthis in wildness and still sublimity. No soundsalutes the listening oar, but tha rushing torrent,or the broken eldrich bleat of the mountain goat.The glens are deep and narrow7, and the hillssteep and sombre, and so high, that thwr grizlysummits appear to be wrapped in the blue veilthat canopies the air. But it is seldom t hat theirtops can be seen; for dark clouds of mist oftenI rest upon them for several weeks together init summer, or wander in detached columns amongtheir cliffs; and during the winter they are aban¬doned entirely to the storm. Then the floodedtorrents and rushing wreaths of accumulatedsnows spend their fury without doing harm toany living creature; a»d the howling tempestrave# uncontrolled and unregarded.Into the midst of this sublime solitude did ourjovial party wander in search of their game.—They were highly successful. The heath cockwas interrupted in the middle of his exultingwhirr, and dropped lifeless on his native waste ;the mfcek parmigan fell fluttering among her greycrusted stones, and the wild-roe foundered in thecorrei. The noise of the guns, and the cheeringcries of the sportsmen, awakened those echoesthat had so long slept silent; the fox slid quietlyover the hill, and the wild deer bounded awayinto the forests of Glendee from before the noisyinvaders.Inihe afternoon they stepped ihtoaliitle bothy,«jr resting lodge, that stood by the side of a rough$2ftifcnntmn stream, and having meat and drinfejthey abandoned themselves to mirth and jollity.'I'liis Major Macpherson was said to have beenguilty of some acts of extreme cruelty and injus¬tice in raising recruits in that country, and was,on that account, held in detestation by tire com-tyon people. He was otherwise a respectablecharacter, and of honourable connexions, as werealso the gentlemen who accompanied him.When their hilarity was at the highest pitch,ere ever they were aware, a young man stood be¬fore them, of a sedate, mysterious appearancq,loQking sternly at the Major. Their laughter washushed in a moment, for they had not observedany human being in the glen, save those of theirown party, nor did they so much as perceive whentheir guest entered. Macphcrson appeared par¬ticularly struck, and somewhat shocked at thesight of Him ; die stranger beckoned to the Major,who followed him instantly out of the bothy :The curiosity of the party was aroused, and theywatched their motions with great punctuality ;they walked a short Way down by the side of theriver, and appeared in earnest conversation for afew minutes, and from some involuntary motionsof their bodies, the stranger seemed to be threat¬ening Macpherson, and the latter interceding;they parted, and though then npt above twentyyards'distant, before the Major got half way backto the bothy, the stranger .guest was gone, andthey saw no more of him.“ I cannot tell how the truth may be,“ I say the tale as ’twas said to me.”But what was certainly extraordinary, afler the2S-draacliul catastrophe, though the icost strict a.udextended inquiry was made, neither this stranger,nor his business, could be discovered. The coun¬tenance of the Major was so visibly altered on hisreturn, and bore such evident marks of trepida¬tion, that the mirth of the party was marred dur¬ing the remainder of the excursion, and nolle ofthem cared t® ask him any questions concerninghis visitant, or the errand that he came on.This was earty in the week, and on live Fridayimmediately following, Macphcrson proposed tohis conipam'ons a second expedition to the moun¬tains. They all objected to it on the acsotant ofthe weather, which was broken and rough ; butha persisted in his resolution, and finally toldthem, that he must go and would go, and thosewho djd not chuse to accompany him might tarryat home. The consequence was, that the sameparty, with tha exception of one-man, went a-gain to hunt in the forest of Glenmore.Although none of them returned fhe first nightaftw thair departure, that was little regarded ; kbeing customary for the spensman to lodge oc-«ask>na!iy in the bothies of the forest; but whenSaturday night arrived, and no word from them,their friends became dreadfully alarmed. On_ Sunday, servants Kere despatched to all the innsand gentlemen’s houses in the bounds, but no aC-ttounts of them could be learned. One solittirvdog only returned, and he was wounded andmdimed. The alarm spread-^—a number of peoplerase, and in the utmost consternation went tosearch for their friends among the mountaias.When they reached the bothy—dreadful to re-late !—they found the dead bodies of the wholeput ty lying scattered about t!>e place ! Some ofthem were considerably mangled, and one nearlySevered in two.—‘Others were not marked by anywound, of which number I think it was said theMajor was one, who was lying flat on his face.71 was a scene of woe, lamentation, and awfpl as-tonisttmtnt, none being able to account for whathad happened ; but it was visible that it had notbeen affected by any hitman agency. The bothywas torn from its foundations, and scarcely avestige of it left—its very stones were all scatter¬ed about in different directions; there was onehuge corner stone in particular, which twelvemen could scarcely have raised, that was tossedto a considerable distance, yet no marks of eitherfire or water were visible. Extraordinary as thisstory may appear, and an extraordinary story itcertainly is, I have not the slightest cause todoubt the certainty of the leading circumstances;With regard to the rest, you have them as I hadthem. In every mountainous district in Scotland,to this day, a belief in supernatural agency pre- jvails, in a greater or lesser degree. Such an aw¬ful dispensation as the above, was likely to re¬kindle every lingering spark of it.FINIS,