THE 'EXPLOITSWife WillieANDWitty Eppie, the Ale-Wife,BUCKHAVEN.WITHA Description cf their College and Coatof Arms, Long Sandy and Roli-coughing Jenny’s Wedding,tfc. tfc. &c.Entered according to Order.THEhistoryOFWISE WILLIE and WITTY EPPIE,The Ale-Wife.— OCOOOOO—CQOOOOO——9 .PART I.j^^MONGST feveral ancient o!d records,this Bucky is not mentioned.y There was a feilcalled Buccaneers, who were Pirates, (that is tofay, Sea robbers); but firift fearch being madefor thefe Ica-robbers, they were difperfca' —What of them efcaped in the fouthern climate,are faid to flit Iter at or near Berwick on Tweed.Having-diftered atnorg thtmftlves,a fmartbattreenfued, after which they divided; and, it is faid,the party who gained this Bucky-battle, fearingthe EngHfli law would take place, they fet north¬ward, and took up their refidence at Bucky-haven,fo called, not only on account of the gre.t quan¬tities of buckles that are found in and about theplace, but on account of the battle they had withtheir neighbours at;Berwkk, when they divided,which they called bucking on<-another, but nownamed boxing or fighting. Another party ofthofs( 3 ); ‘hofe Ruckers fettled in a filhing town near Binff,called Ba-ky, and near the river Spey, which isnow a pretty large fea-town. But among allthe fea-towns in Scotland, the filhers ftil! retaina language quite d fferent from "the people inthe country ; and always they Ihifc the letter H,and ufe O inftead thereof, which no country-people in Scotland do out themfelves. There is• n corruption of fpeech in every country over allBritan, and likewife they ufe different conesand wivs of pronoiuicing words from others;even foms in the Touth of Scotland car. hardlybe underftood by thole in the north, tho' bothpt ctend to fpeak good Engliih, and have a liberalpart of education: But fmcft learning is nowlo eafy to be obtained, ignorance and corruptionof fpeech art greatly decreafsch^ Jx the county of Fife, on the (ea-coaft, therehands a littl^ to'A n, n.habited by few but filhers,called Bucky-harbour, becaufe of fea-buckies and|(hi.l!s to be found i’o pies ty on the rocks aboutthat place. There is little mention made ofth.s town by Hiitorians, to know its originalextraction and antiquities, but in their ownBurges-Ticket, which was partly perfecl truth,but more of it by way of lampoon. This Ticketi was dared the\wo-and-thirtieth day of the monthi of Julius C3Erar Their Coat of Arms was two. hands gripping eat h other over a Scale’s rumple,i Their Oath, was, “ I wi(h that de De’il mayV tak me, an I binna an honefl man to you, an“ ye( 4 )“ yc binna de like to ms.” An article of goodneighbourhood they had, whoever was firft upin a good morring was to. raife all the reft to goto Tea; but if a very bad morniDg, pifs and goto bed again till break of day, then raife WifeWilly, who could judge of the weather by thebiswing of the wind — 1 heir freedoms were,To take all forts cf filh contained in their Tickets,vra Lobflers, partons. pedlies, fpout-fifh, (ea-cats,fea-tiogs; flucks pikes, dick-podocks, and p—fifh.Again, tbefe people are faid to have defeendedfrom one Tom and his two fens, who were fifherson the coaft of Norway, who, in a violent ftorm,were blown ver. and got afhore at Buck-harbour,where they fettled ■, and the u hoi- of his childrenwere called Thom-ions, and foon became a littletown by themltlves. as few of anv other namedwelt am rg them. This is a traditional ftory,handed down from one generation to another.-—They kept but little c-olmnsunication w rh countrypeople about them, for a farmer, in thole days,thought his dangh^r call away, if Ihe marriedone of the fiihers in Bock/.-harbour; and, on theother hand, Witty Eppie. the ale wife, wadafworn Be go laddie, 1 wad rather fee my boatan a’ my three fona dadet againft the Bafs, orI faw ony ane o’ them married to a muck-a-byre’adaughter; a whin ufelefs tapp'es, tt can do nae-thing but rive at a tow r ck, and cut a corn;thev can neither bait a hook nor rade a line,heuk land-eels, nor gather pirriwittkcls.( 5 )Now, Wife Willie nnd Witty Epple tkeale wife, lived there about a hundred years ago:Eppit’s chamber was their College and Cuurt-houfe, where they decided controverfies, andexplained their wonders; for the houfe was likea little kit k, had four windows and a gsyle door;the wives got leave to flyte their fil;, but fightingwas prohibited, as Eppie laid, “ Up-hards wasfair play *’ Their fines v/as a pint o’ ale, andEppie faleM it at a plack the piitt. They hadneither miuifler nor rnag firafe, nor yet a burley-haiiie) to brag them wi’ h s rolbooth. 1’heLord o’ the Minor decided all difputable pointlfand Wife Wi lie and Witty Eppie, the ale-wife,were the rqkrs of the town.Now, Epp:e had a daughter, (he ca’d herLngle-tail’d Nancy, becaule of her f?rkWisgrowth; her w'aill was liki a twitter, had meenrpen fpr a creel, being Edinburgh-bred, andbrought up. wi’ her Loudin aunty, was learnedto.read and i'ew, made coarfe claiths, and callicoeinar.co*s; there was nae a fcfaohr in the townbut herd’.!, fite read the Bible, and the book ofkirk Lngs was newly come in fafiiion. Willyand Ennie tell’d them ay what it meant, and laida? the letters in it was fitted by my Lord, forthey faw him hae a feather that he dipped inblack water, and made crooked fcf.T*s, jull I kethe fame; and then he fpoke o'er agtin, attd ittell’J Li.m what to fay.i It hippened on s day, that two of theirv'es, neir the town, found a horfe-fhre, andbrought it home, and fer.t for Willie to fee whatwas: Willie comes and looks at it; Indeed,£■ ’ WiUig, iVs a thing and holes in’t! l kenr,co’ they, he wad get a name tiil't. A' ho ! co’Willie, whar did ye find it ? Aneath my Lord’sa n. houfe, Willie. Adced, faid Willie, it’s theauid moon, I ken by the holes in’t, for nailing itto the lift; hut I winder it ihe fell in Fife, forthe laft tune it I faw her, (he was hinging onher back aboon Edinburgh. A-hech, co’ Willie,^|l-;’il fet her upon the higheft houfe in the town,and we’ll hae moon-light o’ our ain a’ the dayso’ the year. 7'he whole town ran to fee themoon ! Hcut-tdut, faid Witty Eppie, ye’re bura’ fools theguher ; it’s but ane o’ the things itmy Lord’s mare wears upo her lufe.2. At another time one of the wives founda bare ?. ith its Lgs broken, lying among her kail'in the yard : She not knowing whac it was,called out to her neighbours to fee it. Somefaid it was a Gentleman’s cat, or my Lady’slap dog, ora (hetp’i young kitlen, bscaufe it hadfa ft horns: Na, na, cried Wife Willie, it’s ane*>’ the maukins it gentlemen’s dogs worriesWhat will we do wi't? Staith, co’ they all,we’ll fing the woo’ aff, and make filh and faucen’t to my Tammie’s paarich Na, na, /aidWritty Eppie, better gie’t to my Lord, an’ he’lltap. ao-irw flick through the guts a’t, an’ gar’t(7 )rir. round a.core the fire till ic be rcafied. Ni,na, faid Wife Willie, we'll rje do that indeed;for my Lord wad male us a’ dogs, an’ gir us ri:tthrough the country feekin mauhins for him-3 It happened in a-dark winter morning,that two of thrir wives were going to Dyfartto fell their fi.h; anJ on the road fide therehappened to be fome tinker’s r fathered.—The poor afs feeing the two wove* coming withtheir creels, thought it was the i nkers comingto flit or relieve him, fell a'crying; the twowives threw :heir fifh away, and run home likemad perfons, crying they had fe.n the de’il, aythe very horned deM, tind that he fyoke to them,hut they did na ken what he faid, for it waswords than a htghlandman’s; the whole townwas in an uproar; fome would go with picksand fpides, and hagg him in pieces; others wadgo and catch htm in a llrong net, and then theycould either hang or drown the n. Na, na, co’Wife Willie, we manna cMl cut wi’ him atthe fi.-ft, as he’s gotten the twa bmdtns o’ fiili,be’!! e’en gang his wa’ au’ no Lih us nae mair;he is o er I'oupLe to be catch’d in a net; a’ you;-pith will neither hang him nor drown h in, andthe kintry he comes frae, is a’ het coals, h-’,4never burn : We’il gse to hinxin a civil manuer,and fee what he wants. Get cut Witty Epp’e,the ale wife, and Lingle tail’d Nancy, wi’ dieBible and Pfa!ni-Book. So «fi' they canae ioa crowd, et her to toil the'de’il, or catch himalive(* )3'ive *. And as they came near the place, the afsfell a-crying, which caufed miny of kb rn to faintand run back. >ia, na, eo’Willie, that's naethe de’il's words at a’, it’s my Lord’s trumpetertouting on his brafs whiftle. Willis venturedtill he faw the afs’s twa lugs, Now, cried Wiilieback to the reft, come forward an’ had him fad !1 fee his r.va horns; hech, firs, he has a whitebeard like an auld beggar man ! So they inclofedthe poor afs tin all fi Jes, thinking It was the de’il;but when Wife Willie faw he had r.ae elevenlent, he cried out, Scarna lads, this is not thede’il, it’s fome living bend; it’s neither cow norItorfe. An’ what is’t then, Willie? Indeed,co’ Willie, it’s the father o’ the raaukins, I kenby its lang lugs. «Now, fame fay this hiftory is too fatincal;but it is according to the knowledge of thofetimes, not to-fay any p’ace by another. Theold wives will tell you yet of many fuch ftories,of the devil appearing to their grandfathers andgrandmothers ; and dead wives coming back againto vifit their families long after being dead :So this Buck.haven was once noted for droll,exploits ; but it is now become mere knoWn,and a place faid to produce the hardteft watermen,or failocs, of any town on the Scots coaft. Yet,niany of the old people in it fiiil retain the oldtincture of their ancient and uncultivated fpecch,fuch as, Be-go laddie; they are alfo of a fierynature, for if jieu aik any ot th^ir wives, wherethsir( 9 )their College Hands, they'll tell you, if your nofewere in their a , your mouth would be atthe door of it.4 Now, it happened when Wife Willieturned old, he took a great fwdiing ;n hiis wameand cafting up his kail, colkps, and cauld filh,that nothing could Hand on his r.oanch ; anda ftou; ftomach had he. for crabs, heads, andfcate-broe, or brofe in a bridal morning; yet itfail’d him, and he fell (kk, None could cure him,nor tell what ail’d him till a mountebank fbgedoftor cams to Kirkcaldy, that could judge bypeople’s pifs, the trouble of their perfon Wife Willie hearing of his fame, p iled intoa bottle, aad fent it away with his daughrer:~The bottle being uncorked, his daughter fpilt itby the wsy ; and to conceal he: fk>;h in lb doing,piCed in it herfelf, and cn Hie goes, till flie cameto the ftagc-dotkr when fibs cried out aloud.Sir doflor, Sir debtor, here is a bottle of myfather’s wafli, lie has a fair guts, and needs na’tirite ony, but fpues a’ he eats. It’s true I tellyou, my daw. The dattor lo; kt at it, then fays,It’s nor your facber’s, furely it’s your mother’s.The deMs i.ha man, faiJ Die, divna I ken myfather frae my mither. Then, faidi he, he iswith child. The de'i.’s itha man, co’{he, for:ny mither iwre a’ de bairns before, dat’s notrue, fir; rigs ye’re a great litr. Hame diecomes, and teU’d Willie, her father, that thedoctor faid lie was wi’ balm. t> waes me, cu‘Willie,( ID )Willie, for I bae a muckle warn’, an’ I fear it’s■oVr true. O plague on you, Janet! for ye’re< ;e father o’t, an’I’m fure to die in bearing o’t.Witty Eppic was fent for, as file was m boudie;an’ file fend a’ Willie’s wame, to be fure about it.Jndred, co’ Epjne, ye’re the fiift man e’er J favv’*1 oa'rn bffore, an’ how you’ll bear if I dinn^ken, ye ha'e a waliy waase well l wat; buthow m?n bear bairns I diana ken : But I jvouldd.-ink fait fea-water, ami-drown it in my guts;for if men get ance the gate o’ bearing weansthemfe ves, they’ll feek nae mair wive*. SoWillk. drank fea-water till Lis guts was like torive, and out he got to esfe him (elf in the kail¬yard, and with the terrible noife of his farting,up ftarts a maukin behind him, who thought itwas (hot: Willie feeing her jump o’er the dike,thought it was a child bro ight forth, and cncsout, Come back, my dear, and be chriftened,and din.e rift to the hills to be a Pagan.Willie grew better every day thereafter, beingbrought to bfid in the kail-yard; but his daughterwas brought to-bed fome months after, whichwas th« caufe of the doer’s milfake.( " )PART II.i. Now, Wife Willie hid a diughter, calledRolling Coughing Jenny, becaufe Ihe fpake thick,sax words at three times^a’t fenfe, ha’f non fen fe,as her own records will bear wicnefs. She beingwi* child, was delivered of a bonny laflie ; andall the wive* in the town cried our, Be-go, UdJie,it’s jail like it* ain father, Lang Sandy Tafon,(or Thomfon), we ken be its nofe; for Siqflyhad a great rauckle red nofe, like a lobfter’s tie,bowed at the point like a hawk’s neb; and Sandyhimfel faid, that it was furely.his, or feme otherbody’s ; but he hid ufed a’ his birr at the gettinga’c, to try his abilities, being the firft time e’erhe was at fie a bufmefs before; and when hehad done a* that man cou’d do at it, he faid itwas nonfenfe ; an’ fliame fa’ him, but he wa ■rather row his boat round the Bafs an’ back again,or he’d do the like .again : for Wife Willie gad®wude at the wean an’ faid it had raair ill naturein’t, than the auldeft wife about the town ; forit pitTfd the be{, and fkitthebed, Ikirl’d likea wild cat, and kept him frae his night’s reft;and the anld haggs about the town ca’d himSandy, the bairn’s daddy.; and s’the young gillie-gauky lallics held out their fingers, and cried.Tie hie, hi-, Sandy, the kirk will kittSe your hipsfor that; An’after a*, the blcar*cy\l beil-mawc-me( 1* )C3iae blatidaring about the buttock-meal, fjtn-moned him and her before the haiy band, a courtthat waj held in th? kirk on Saturday-morning;and all the herd laddies round about, c ied, Ay,ay, Sandy, pay the bull-filler, or we’ll cut th ?cow’s tail a va*. So poor Sandy foifered fed’'1 inthe flefli, befides the penalty and kirk penance.2. But Wife Willie had pity on them, andgaJe wi’ them to the K rk-court, what learnedfolk call the Se2ion. Jenny was ft. ft called upon,and in flie goes, where a’ the haly band wasconvened', elders and younger deacons, anddog payers keeping the door, the cankardeft carls’hat could be gotten between Dyfart and Duby-lide. white heads and balk heads fitting wantin’bonnets, wi’ their white headed ftaves and hod¬den-grey jockey-coats about them.Mefs John fays, Come away Jannet, we’rewaiting on you here.M n. Now Jannet, where was this childgotten ? You muft tell us plainly.Jan. A deed fir, it was gotten among theblack ftanes, at the cheek o’ the crab holes.Mefs John ftares at her, not knowing theplace, but fome of the elders did. Then faidhe, O Jannet but the devil was bufy with youat that time.Jan. rt. by my fegs, fir. that’s a great lieSflS’re tellin’ now, tor the dtM was r.ae there,that( *3 )lhat I faw, nor ony body elfe, to bid us do aething or anither; we lo’ed itlier unco well foralang tirue before that, an’ fyne we tell’d ither,an’ 'greed to marry ither, like honetl folk; thenmight na we learn to do the thing married folk do,without the de’il helping us. "Whifht, whifht, cried they, ye Ihould ber fcourg’d, faufs loon quein it thou is, yc’ev Ipeak*ing ncnfenfe.Jan. De de’il’s i’ the carles, for you andyour miniflers is liars, when ye fay it is de de’ilit was helping Sandy and me to get de bairn.Come, come, fa id they, pay down the K'rk-dues, and come back to the ftool the morn; theprice is four punJ, and a groat to the bell man.Jan. The auld thief fpeed the darth o*t fir,far lefs might fair you and your bell*man baith.O bur this be a warld indeed, when poor honedfclks maun pay for making ufeo’ their own a-—;Ye tnilca* the poor de’il a-hint his back, an’ gi’eshim de wyte o’ a’ de ill in de kintry, baflardbairns, and every thing ; an’if it be fae as ye lay,ye may thank de de’il for that four pund anda groat I ha’e gi’en ye; that gars your pot playLrowu, an’gets you jockey.coats, an’purl-haodcdfarks, an’ white-headed haves, when my father’spat wallops up rough bear and blur wattr.The woman is mad, faid they, for this moneyis a5 gi ven to the poor of the p.irifliJan.( *4 )Jan. The poor o’ the pari.Oi! faid fne; finta heit ye gi’e them but wee pickles o’ peafe meal,didna I fee't in their pocks? and the miftcr’s wifegaes naething ava to unco beggars, but bidsthem gang hame to their ain parilhes; and yetye’ll tak the purfe frac poor folks for naethingbut, playing the loon a wee or they be married,an’ fyne cock them up to be looked on an'laugh’d at by evsry body: a de’il fpeed youan’ your jaftice, fir Hute, tute, ye’re a’comingon me like a wheen colly dogs hunting awa’ apoor ragget chapman frae the door. So outflic goes curfing and greeting. — Sandy is nextcalled Upon, and in he goes.Min. Now, Sanders, you mull tell us howthis child was gotten ?San. A now, Me& John, fir, ye hae bairnst>' your ain, how did you get them ? But yours•are a’ laddies, and mine is but a laflis ; *if you’dtell me how you got your laddies, I’ll tell youhow I got my lalfie, an’ than we’il be baithaltke good o’ the bufinefs.The Minifter locks at him, and fays, Huie^tute, Sanders, lay down four pund and a groat,and come back to morrow to the ilool and givefatisfi£Hou to the congregation; you had morenee.! to be feeicing repentance for that aborait-able fin of uncleannefs than fpeaking To ’.o mi-San. Well, here’s vour li'ler, fir, 1 hae g*ttenbut poo? penny-worth: fork, an’ye te!l me t<!repcf4( I5. )repent for’t; what the suld thief needs I repentwhen I’m gaun to marry the woman, an’ thanl hae to do’t o’er again every day, or there’llbe nae peace in the houfe; figs it’s nonfenfe topay filler, repent, an’ do’t again too, a fineadvice indeed, mafter Minifter! an’that’s theway the like o’ live., Wife Willie. Now, fir, an’ you mafier elders,ye maunna put them on the black creepy till theybe married, they’ve fuffertd enough at ae time.A*wed, a-weel, faid they, but they mudmarry very foon.I true, fays Sandy, ye’ll be wanting maifdink; foul hae’t ye do for nacthing here.Hame comes Sandy," fiarving o’ hunger; yemight a caften a knot on his lang* guts. Hismither was baking peafe bannocks, up he getsa lump of her leaven into his mouth. Auld thiefbe in your baggies bag, Sandy, fays his mither,K:ik-fouk are ay greedy; ye hae been wi’ theMinifier a’ day; ye’d get a gurd lang grace, hemight agien ys meat too: filthy dog that th-u is,thou haes the bulk o’ a little pye o’ my leavenin your guts; it wad a faird ane’s dinner, faewad .it e’en, but an ye keep a reckin’ huufean a roaking cradle three eleven years, as l haedone, !*fs o’.that will fierve you yet, baggitybtall itu is, main it I bore ti.ee now, a hear yet4m my do-.v.The n«xt exploit was an aCtion at law, agiinftthe good-man of Mniredge, a fanner who livednear by, that kept Iheep and fwine. His fheepcame down artd broke thfir yards, and are uptheir kail; the wild hares they thought belongedto the fame man, as they ran to his houfe whenthey were hun'ed. The fwin* came very oftenin about their houfes, feeking fifh guts and anything they could get: So it happened, when oneof the children was fitting eafing irfclf, thatone of the Tvine tumbled it ever, and bit a piececut of its backfide! The whole town rofe inan uproar againft poor grunkie, as they called her,and caught her. and takes her before Wife Wiilie.Willie took an ax and cut two or three inches offher long nofe. Now, fays Willie, I trow I haemade thee fomething like another beaft; thouhad lie a lar^.g mouth before, it wad a frighteda very dehl to look at ye, but now ye’re fac’dlike a little horfe or cow. The poor fow ranhome roaring, all blood, and wanting the nofc;Which caufed Muiredge to warn them in beforemy Lord. So the wives that had their kail eatenappeared firft in the Court, complaining againdMuiredge. Indeed, my Lord, faid they, Muir¬edge is no a good man, when he is fie an illneighbour; he keeps black hares an white hares,little wee brown backed hares wi’ white arfes,an loofe wagging horns; they creep in at ourwater gufli holes an does the like : When wecry, Pufi*.-, puffie, they rin hame to Muiredge:( >Bat I’ll gar my colly h*d them hy the fit, aa I’Uhad them by the horn, an pu* the hair sff them,an fend’em hame wanting the Ikin, as he did wi*Sowen Tammie’s wee Sandy, for codin o’ hi*peafe, he took aff the poor laddie’s coat, an fatdid he e’en. And Willis faid, If ye were a fow,my Lord, an me fitting driting, an you to bitemy arfe; fudna I hae amends o’ yo» fcr that?Od, my Lord, ye wadna hae a bit out o’ yourarfe for twenty marks: Ye maun e’en gar Muir-edge gie ten marks to buy a plafter, to heal thepoor bit wean’s arfe again.Well faid, Willie, fays my Lord j but whoputs tn ttie few’s nofe again ?A fcgs, my Lord, faid Willie, (lie’s honefierlike wantm it,, an (lie’ll bite nae mae arfes wi’t:An ye had hane a nofe, iny Lord, as lar.g as thefew had, ye’d been obliged to ony body it wadcut a piece af’t.4.. A Gentleman coming pift near their town,afieed one of their wives where their Collegellood ? Said (lie, Gie me a {hilling, an I’i! let youfee baith (ides o’c. He gives her the (hilling,thinking to fee femeihing curious. Now, fays(he, there’s the one fide of your fiiiliing, andtheie’s the otter; (b it’s m ne now.Now, Wife Willie being greatly admiredfor his jufi judgment in cutting off :he fe\v*r nofe,my Lord, in a motking manner, made him burlybailie of Buck haven; Lang Sandy was ProTofi,and( >3 )and'John Thrmus the weaver was dean or guild,But Witty Eppie had ay the cafting vote in a’their courts and controverfies.PART IILt. There happened one day a running hor(%to be ftanding at one of their doors, and a childgoing about, the herfe tramped upon the chiltf’sfoot, which cnufed the poor child to cry : Themother came running in a paflion, crying, A waebe to you for a horfe, filthy barbarian finite it1*00 is, fetting your nn>:kle iron lufe on my bahn’swee fittie. (Xl, ftir, I’ll rive the hair out o?your head, gripping the horfe by the mane andthe twa lugs, cuffing his shafts, as he had beenher fellow-creature, crying, Bcgo laddie, 1’il garyou as good, I’ll rak yon afore Wife Willie thebaillie, an he’ll cut aff your hand wi’ de iron tufe,an ye’ll be eripp'e, an gang thro’ the k’ntry ina barrow, or on twa fhule Haves, like Rab therandy, an a meal pock about your netk. Her neighbour wifr hearing an feeing what pa^>cries, O you fool tanpy, what gars you fpeakthat gate till a horft ? He difha ken ae wordthat ye’re fayin till him.2 When R^ng Sandy and RolicoughingJenny were married, their wedding took upthree days and two nights. My Lord, and myLady*C.1? )Lidy, wirti faveral other ladies and gentlemen^attended for diverfions fike. The piper ofKirkcaldy and the fidler of Kinghorn were bothrbidden by Wife Willie, the bride’s father; andif any mere came to play unbidden, Wi lie fworethey ihouid fit unfair’d, for tbefe twa fed geta’,de filler dat was to be gi’en or win. Thatday the dinner and dorter-meat fat in Eppie’aCollege, and the dancing flood in twa ringsbefore the door ; and the firft day, il e duntingand dangling of their heels dang down the fea-dyke; fosne humbled in, and fotne held by theftones; the fdler fell in o’er the lugs, and druckita’ his (idle, the firings gaed out o’ order, andthe triprs turn’d faft I ke pudding Ik ns; fo thepiper had to do for a’, and the fid er had naethingto do but fop kail and pick banes wi’ the reftof them. Now, my Lord’s cook was to erderthe kettle, but lang Pate o’ the Pans play’d a fadprat, by cafling twa pound of candle among thekail, which made them fo fat that fume couldnot fup them, and the caftdle wicks came ay intotheir cutties, like {outers’ling'es in the dilhes,,but some, wi’ ftronger Oomachs, flripped themthrough their teeth, I ke rats’ tails, and said,,mony ane wad bs blyth o’ ftc a firing to tie uptheir hose in a pinch. My Lord and the gentry,Mess John and the Cieik, were all placed atthe head of the table, oppeftte the bride, butwould tup none of the candle kail Wise Willieand the bridegroom served the table, and cried,Sup, an*a sorrow to ye, Lr 1 ne’er liked fourkatfc%(«)ka'rf about my house. When the flesh came>the bride got a ram’s rumple to pick : She taksit up and wags it at my Lord, saying; Ti-hie>tny Lord, what an a piece is this i O, saidmy^ord, that’s the tail piece, it belongs to you,bride. It’s no mine, I never had the like o’t;it’s a fish-tail, see as it wags, hut it’s a bit o’some dead beast. O yes, said he, bride, youhave hit it now; but how come you to eat withyour gloves on? Indeed, my Lord, there’sa reason for dat too; 1 hae scabbed hands.—O, said he, l cannot, believe you She pulled offa part of the glove, and (hewed him. O yes,said he, 1 see it is so. Acha, said (he, but I wi(hye saw my a—e, my Lord, it’s a’ in ae hotter.O fy, William, said my Lo:«l, I wonder youdon’t teach your daughter tbfpeak to speak withmore modefty. Be my sae, my Lord, ye mayas well kiss her a—e. 1 find so, said my Lord,but it is for want of a teacher.V ■ * •> . ■ * r • li i , .,4 fvi- . £The next difh that was set on ,the table,was roafied hens; and the b ide’s portion beinglaid on her plare, (he sajs to my Lord, Will yelet me dip my fowl-a—e amang your sauce?—•Upou my word said my Lord, I will nor, if it bjas you tell mi Hure, my Lord, said the bride,it’s nne my a—e, it’s but de hen’s I mean.—O bur, said he, it’s the fifhion for every one toeat off their own trencher, you may get moresauce,, I can manage my own myfelf. Indeed,my Lord, Lid /he, I thought you iiket me betternor( 21 )ncr ony ither body. True, faid be, but I likeyou (hculd not fpeak iil of my Lady, for Ihe hearsmvfelt belt. Deed, my Lord, i think ye’rethe belt body about the houfe, for your Lady’sbut a ftinking pridefu’ jade, fire think* that wefud mak de fi!h an de baddies a’ al ke ; be-go,my Lord, fhe thinks we can lhape them as de hen*doe* their egg* vvi’ their a—s. O bride, fays he,you Ihould not fpeak ill of my Lady, for flic hearsyou very well. O deed, my Lord, 1 had naemind 0’ dat. Well then, faid he, drink to me,er them you 1 ke befl. Then, fays fhe, there’sto ye a’ de gidder, heels o’er head. Very well,faid, fays my Lord, that’s good fenfe.Dinner being over, my Lord deflred thebride to dance. Indeed, my Lord, faid fhe,1 canna dance ony, bat I’il gar my wame wallopforrjent yours, an than we’ll rin round aboutas fall’s we can. Very well bride, faid he, thatwill juft do; wc fiiall neither kifs nor Drakehands, but I’ll bow to thee, and ye 11 l> tk to me,fo we’ll have done. — So, after the dinner anddancing, my Lord exhorted the bride to be agood neighbour, and ’gree with every bodyround about. 1 wat weel, my Lord, faid fhe,ye ken 1 ne’er caft cut \vt* iny body but langPate o’ the Pans, an he had a’ de wire o’t; hebegan wi’ heiteng an jeering me abput Sandy,de black ftanes an de crab holes where de weanwas gotten ; an than it turned to a hubbub ana cullafhangy, an or e’er ye cou’d kifs’d my a—e,mymy Lord, we was sboon ithcr on the mufl’clmidden. I trcw 1 Cell'd him o’ Randy Rab, hisunde, his ain titiy, it (teal’d de farks an drankde filler, an how his mither fal’d maucky mutton,an tnair than ar that, fae did I e'en, my Lord.2- My Lord had a friend, a captain in thearmy, who came to vifu him ; and having heardof the Buck“rs’fayingsanct, exploits, was defirousto fee them My Lot d, to put them in a fright,lent his ferVant to ord<r them, both men andwomen, to com? up before his gate to-morrowabout kail time ; and all that did not ccme, wasto fi t and remove out of rny Lord's grounddu'ediy. This put the v. hole town in a terriblecdnftemation I Some ran to Wife Willie, to leeif he cou’d ttll what it meant. Willie faid, thatit was before feme thing; and he faid he was furedeath was the word o’t, come what will. ButWitty Eppie find, I ken will what’s to come,he’s gaun < > make de men o’s a’ fodgers, anthe wives dragoons, became they’re the beltfighters: I ken there’s fomethi: to come onthe town, for our Nancy faw Maggy’s gaift theftreen, it was buried about four weeks fince lyne.A hech, co Willie, Coat’s a fign the meal is dearin the ither warld, when fiie comes back to thisane again : Wc’ii t?k our dinner afore we gaeto my Lord, we’ll may be ne’er come back again.So r>way they went, lamenting, all in a crowd.My Lord and the Captain was looking over thewindow when they arrived; and the Captaiu( 23 )cries to them, To the right about. To whichthey snfwered, O blefs you, my Lord, what isdat man Lyin’? S-ys my Lord, He bids youturn your faces to Maggy’s hill, and your a—esto the fea ; which they did in all hafte. An w hatwill we do now? Lid Willie No more, laidmy Lord, but go all home Willie. O my dow iO my fjlefiing come o’er your bonny face, myLord; I wifh you may nfever die, nor yet growfide, nor nae body fell you; yp are the bell manin a’ the warld, for we thought a’ to be deadthen or fodgers, ye’re wifer than a’ the witcheson the coaft of Fife, or in a’ the wsrld.4. There wjs a cu'fom in Bucky harbour,when they got a hearty dnnk, that they wentdown to dance among the boats; and two orthree of the oldeft went into a boat to fee thereft dance. And when they admitted a burgher,there was always a dance. One day they ad¬mitted gly’d Rob, who was a warlike, and madethem all to ftop their dancing; for which he wascarried before Wife Willie, to ar.fwcr for thathis crime; for which he was banifhed to the Ifleof May, at the mouth of the Frith of Forth, tocarry coals to the Light-Houfe.The Bucky lads and 1 flls, when they go togather bait, tell (Irong ftcries about ghofls,witchos, Willie wi* the wifp, and the Kelpy,fairies, maukens. and boglca of ail forts. Theythink the ghofts go all n'ght, like auld horfes,forfor fiar of being feen, ami be made to carryfcate, filb, and duicc. They think Witches arcdie word kind of devils, and m.kc ufe of catsto ride upon or kill kebbers and bsfonufliafts •and that they fail over the lea in cockle filth's,and bewitches lads and lafics, and dif.bles bride¬grooms. They think Willie and the Wifp isa fiery Devi!, ai d lejd> people afF their road todrown them in the lea. They think Kelpy isa fty devil, and roars before a infs at fca. Andthey believe that the Fairies lift new-born bairnsfrom their mothers ; and that none of them arefife to lie with their mothers for a night or twoafter they are born, tn lefs the mdher get a pairof men’s breeches under their head, which fetsthe Fairies adrift. But if they to do this,they fay the Fairies will c'-rrv clF the child, andleave an old Uuck of wood with the mother.