THEWITTYANDENTERTAININGEXPLOITSOFGeorge Buchanan,COMMONLY CALLEDThe King’s Fool.STIRLING:PRINTED BY WILLIAM MACNIE,And S9W Wholesale and RetAl^ V;>.vj'1828., A,,rvjTHEWitty and EntertainingEXPLOITSOFGeorge Buchanan.MB GEORGE BUCHANAN was a Scotu^nboro, and though of meSn parentage, made great pro¬gress in learning. As for his understanding and readywit, he excelled all men then alive in that age, thatever proposed questions to him. He was servant orteacher to King Janies VI. as his private counsellor,but publicly he acted as fool.It happened one day that a young airy noblemanwent into the King’s garden, to pull a flower for ayoung lady h* fancied. George followed at a distance;so when the young man found a flower to his pleasure,he would not pull it, but to find it again without fur¬ther searching, he coverejd it with his hat and westaway for his sweetheart. No sooner was he gone, butup goes George, lifts the hat, pulls the flower, theneases himself on the spot, and covers it with the hatagain, and away he goes. Soon after the younggentleman returned, leading his sweetheart to pall theflower below the hat ; but as soon as he lifted the hat,and saw what Wa$ below it, he looked like a fool; andthe lady flying in a passion, sets off, and would never4countenance him any mope. The yonng gentlema*being sadly vexed at this affront given him by George,sent him a challenge to fight him, appointing day andplace where they were to meet. Being to fight onhorseback, George gets an old stiff horse, and forharnessing covers him about with blown bladders,with small stones in each, without either sword orspear; away to the field he goes, where the duel wasappointed. So, when George saw his enemy comingagainst him, all in glittering armour, armed with swordand spear, he made up to him with all the speed hishorse could carry him ; when the snail stones madeeuch a rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine geld«ing would not stand the battle, but ran away andthrew his master tp the ground, which caused all thespectators to laugh and say the gentleaaan was morefool than George. The gentleman being .still moreenraged at this second affront, he would £ght withGeorge on foot; but his friends persuaded him that itwould be no honour for him to fight and kill the King'sfool, and far less tp he killed by the fool; so theywore advised both ts agree. But,the gentleman wouldtry another exploit with George, for to have it said hewas still the cleverest man, viz. To hold him a jump¬ing bout publicly^ the next day thereafter. With allmy heart, says George, and w® will end in and aboutwhere we began : they not knowing his meaning inthis. The place and hour being set where they wereto meet next morning, George in the night timecaused a deep pit to b® made, and the earth of it car¬ried away ; then filled it up with dung from a privy,and covered it qver with green turf, that it might cotbe known by the other ground. So, according tc pre¬mise, they both met in the morning against the ap¬pointed time. Now George being the oldest man, and’by them, counted the greatest fool, the young sparkpermitted him to jump first, which be, according t*florder did ; and jumped w a ioot of the placewhere the ground was falsifi m The young man see¬ing this made his performaue. v. ■ -rent airs, and allhis might, so that be jumped foot over George, andup to hie outers in clean uag whereat the wholemultitude of spectators trie out with loud huzzas andlaughter. Now, says Geer e, I told you we wouldend in and about where we ' . .an, and that is in cleandirt.On a time after this, the : ng and his court were■going into the country, and they would have Georgeto ride before them in the io. s dress ; whereunto heseemed unwilling, but it was 'the kinf.5s pleasure. 80George was mounted upon an old horse, with (die heelshanging down, and a p ■. , r coat, patched over withpictures of divers kinds. George rede before themin this posture, which car a d great laughter and diver¬sion, until they came to un inn,, where they alightedto dine •, and in the tj:--.- they were at dinner, Georgewent into the stables, ar*d with a knife cut all theirhorse’s chafts, not sore, out so as they might bleed.Now, as soon as dinne was over, and they mountedtheir horses again, George riding before them as u-sual, in his palmer coat and old hoots, they began tomake their game of him ; then George turning aboutsuddenly clapped his hands with a loud laughter, theKing a^ked him what made him laugh so i Laugh,says George, how can I but laugh when horses can¬not hold their peace r O my sovereign, says he, don’tyou see how your horses have rent their chafts laugh¬ing at my old hoots : Then every man looking at hishorse’s cliafts, the y were all in rage against George.The Kina caused George to dismount directly, andcharged him never to let him see his face pn Englishground. Now, George knowing that nothing couldreconcile the King at this time, he came away toScotland, and caused m a j;a:! of great boots,and put a qua»iu‘y 01 earth to each of them,and away he goes fix i, lo see the King oncemere. He hearing t g and his court were topass through a count; u-e, George pUvs himselfin an old window, ac ' up his hare a—e to theKing and his court «' v passed. rl iie King lieinggreatly amazed to see itii an unusual honour done tohim, was curious to know the performer : iio he ccd-led unto him, desiring him to come down ; and find¬ing it to be George, Sir, says the King, did 1 notcharge you never o let me see your face again ? True,my sovereign, says George, for which cause I let yousee my arse. But, says the King, you was never tocome on English ground again. Neither 1 did, saysGeerge, pulling off his boots before the King, beholdmy sovereign, its all Scotch earth t stand upon. TheKing and his court being greatly diverted with thismerry joke, George was again admitted to the King’sfavour.After this, there arose a debate betwixt the Kingand the Qneen about votes in Parliament ; as the Kinghad two votes, the Queen would have one, and wouldneeds be a Parliamenter, or no peace without prefer¬ment. This matter was comnutted to George by theKing. So it was agreed in Parliament that tho Queenshould be admitted for a day. Accordingly she came,and wtas received with all the honour and congratula¬tions that was due and becoming her high station : hotbefore any matter of consequence was brought to theboard, George seated himself hard by the Queensseat: all being silent, he rose up very quickly, liftedone of his legs, and let a loud fart, which set thewhole house a-laughing; where .t, the Queen wasgreatly offended, and said. Go, take the rogue andhang him. To which, George answered, A fineParliamenter indeed ! to iiang a man for s* sinless in¬firmity, and that’s a fart. The Queen enrag’d at theaffront put on her first appearance in Parliament,went off in a passion, and vrcvJd never countenancethem more. But yet, to fee revenge.I on George, shewould never give the Kinpr rest till he deliveredGeorge into her hands, tl . t fid rr’ght be pmiLIitd ether pleasure; which the King accordingly ram Hand¬ed to be done, knowing that George would rescuehimself by some intrigue or other. No sooner was l.edelivered into her hands, but she and her maids ofhonour pronounced his doom, which was as follows *.“ As he had affronted the Queen among so great anequipage, who ought to be honoured in chief aboveall women in the nation, that ha should be stoned todeath by the hands of wonwu.” Now, the time beingcome that he was to die, according to their appoint¬ment, he was taken into a park, where a great num¬ber of women was waiting for him, with their apronsfull of stones, to fall upon him, and put him to death,according to the Queen’s appointment.HIS SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.‘ Here’* a female band with bags of stones,‘ To kill a man for rumple groans :‘ I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts,' ‘ Could I convert my farts to rifts ?‘ Since I the first for farting die,‘ Close up the place from whence they fly.‘ To commit my crime, I think, yt’ll scarce,‘ If once ye do cork up your arse.* And now since women stones do carry,‘ Men need not in this world tarry.4 Judge if such women be chaste complete,4 With forty stones between their feet:4 But since ’tis so ye will come on,• The greatest whore throw the first stont.’8"When te ended with U);S; words, ‘The greatestwhore throw the first stone/ .tvry one put it to an¬other to cast the first stone ; Lot knowing they wouldattain the character of a whole tor so doing, they allrefused till the dying hour was past, and then he tooka protest against them, and by that means gained hislife. After this he was admitted to the Queen’sfavour and presence, and attended the court as formerly.About this time, the French King, in order to picka quarrel with the court of Britain, sent a letter tothe King, desiring it to be read before the Parlia¬ment ; and the writing was as follows : ‘ Will I come ?Will I come ?—Will I come ? This letter beingread before the King and his courtiers, they all con¬cluded that the French King designed to invadeEngland : Therefore, they ordered an answer to bewrote, upbraiding him with the breach of peace, andputting him in mind of the last treaty. The answerbeing read over before the King and his nobles, theyall agreed that it should be sent off: But, Georgesmiling and shaking his head, said,Many men, many minds :Who knows what he designs ?They then asked George what he thought theErench King meant by such a letter ? To which heanswered, 1 suppose he wants an invitation to comeover and dine with you, and then return in a friendlymanner, but you are going to charge him with abreach of peace, before he has given any signal of of¬fence.—His letter is indeed dark and mystical, butaend him an answer according to his question. Now,George being ordered to write the answer, it was asfollows : ‘ And ye come—And ye come—Andcome.’ This being sent to the Erench King, he ad-9mired it beyond expression, saying, It was more■valiant and daring than he expected. So the eranityhe intended was extinguished and turned into love.It happened once that a malignant party in Sent*land sent up a great spokesman to the King and Par¬liament, for the seducing of the church : George hear¬ing of his coming went away and met him on thebridge, and the salutation that he gave him was, thecutting off his head, and throwing it over the bridge!He then run to the King with all his might, and felldown before him, pleading most heartily for a pardon,or without it he was a dead man. The King mostseriously asked him what he had done now ? To whichhe answered, He had only thrown the Scots bishop’shat over the bridge; which made the king to laugh,to hear him ask pardon for such a small fault. Buthe had no sooner got the pardon sealed by the King,than he said, Indeed, my Sovereign, I threw his batover the bridge, but his head was in it. Geoidy,Geordy, says the king, thoa wMt never give over tillthou be hanged.A nobleman in Htnijland agreed with the King, howto put a trick upon George, to try his manly couragein sending him to a certain place for a bpg of money.On his way home through St. James’ park, they caas-ed a sturdy fellow attack him on the way, and takethe money from him. The fellow being armed withsword and pistol, came up briskly and attackedGeorge with these words, Yt.u, Sir, deliver whatmoney you have, or you are a dead man. To which,George answered, Sir, I have some, indeed, but ’tfsnot my own, and therefore da not like to part with it ;nevertheless being determined as you seem to be, toexchange blows for it, pray do me the favour to fireyour pistol through the flap of my coat, that the owners10may see I have been in danger of my life before Iparted with it: which he accordingly did. No soonerhad he bred the pistol, than George whips oat hithanger from below his coat, and with one stroke cutoifthe fellow's right hand, wherein he held the sword,so that both sword and hand fell to the ground : butGeorge lifted his hand and carried it tfl the King.No sooner did he come before them, but they askedhim, saying, Well, George, did you see any body totrouble you by the way ? None, said he, hut one fel¬low, who was going to take the money from ma ; but1 made him give me his hand he would not do thelike again. You did ? says the fellow’s master. Yes,I did, says George, let work bear witness, throw¬ing down the fellow’s band on the table before themall.Now, this last exploit of George’s caused many ofthe English to hate him ; and among the rest, a youngnobleman fell a joking with George, saying, he wouldbe as famous a champion for Scotland as Sir WilliamWallace was, Aye, aye, says George, Wallace was abrave man in his time. True indeed, says the youngnobleman, but when be came to London, ive did himall manner of justice ; and, for honour of the Scots,we have his effigy in our shit-houses to this very day.And do you not know the reason of that, says George :No, I don’t, says be. Well, I’ll tell you, says George,He was such a terror to Englishmen, when he was a-iNe, that the sight of bis picture yet makes them be-shit themselvti. The English took thi* answer as agreat affront, and forthwith caused Wallace’s pictureto be taken out of all their sbit-kouses.George happened one time to be in company witha bishop, and so they began to education, where¬in he blanked the bishop so remarkably, that the11bishop himself owned he was worsted.—Then one othe company addressed George with these words:BThou Scot should not have left thy country. Forwhat reason says George. Because thou hast carriedall the wisdom that is in it hither with thee. No, ho,says George, the shepherds in Scotland will disputewith any bishop in London, and exceed them very farm education. The bishops took this as an affront,and several nobleman affirmed it to be as the Scothad said: Beats were laid on each side, and three ofthe bishops were chosen and sent away to Scotland,to dispute it with the shepherds, accompanied withseveral others, who were to bear witness of what theyshould hear pass between them. Now, George know*Bing which way they went, immediately took anotherroad, and was in Scotland before them. He thenmade acquaintance with a shepherd on the border,whose pasture lay by the road side where the bishopswere to pass; and there be mounted himself in a shep*pherd's dress : and when he saw the bishops appear,he conveyed his fleck to the road-side, and fell schanting at a Latin ballad. When the bishops cameup to George, one of them asked him, in French,what o’clock it was ? To which he answered, in Heb¬rew, It is directly about the time of the day it wasyesterday at this time. Another asked him, in Greek,What countryman he was ? To which he answered,in Flemish, If you knew that, you would be as wiseas myself. A. third asked him in Dutch, Where w^you educate ? To which he answered in GaelM^Herding my shee.p between this and Lochaber. Thisthey desired him to explain in English, which he im¬mediately did. Now, says one of them, we need pro¬ceed no further. What, says George, are you but¬chers ? I’ll sell you a few sheep. To this they madeno answer, but went away shamefully, saying, theybelieved the Scots had been through all the nationsJS2in the werld for their education, or the devil hadtaught them. Now when George had ended this dis¬pute with the If.shops, he stripped oft’his shepherd'sdress, and up through England he goes, with all thehaste imaginable, so that he arrived at the place fromwhence they set out, three days before the judges,aud went every day asking if they were come, se thathe might not be suspected. As soon as they arrived,all that were concerned in the dispute and many more,came crowding in to hear what news from the Scottishshepherds, and to know what was done. No sooner 'had the three gentlemen declared what had past be¬tween the bishops and the shepherds, whom they foundon the Scots bolder, but the old bishop made answer.And think you, said he, that a shepherd could answerthese questions ? ft has been none else but the devil,for the Scots ministers themselves could not do it,they are but ignorant of such matters, a parcel olbeardless boys. Then George thought it was time totake speech in band. Well, my Lord Bishop, saysGeorge, you cal! them a parcel of ignorant beardlessboys.—You have a great long beard, yourself, and ifgi;;ce was measured bv beard?, you bishops and thegoats would have it all, and that will be quite averseto Scripture* What Says the bishop, are you a Scot ?Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well, says the bish¬op, and what is the difference between a Scot and asot? Nothing at present, says ■ George, but thebreadth of the table ; there being a table betwixt theIftshop and George. So the bishop went off in a high• passion, while the whole multitude were like to splittlieir jaws with laughter.About this time there was an act of Parliament forthe benefit of murderers, that any person who com¬mitted murder, if they forfeited live hundred merks,which went under the name of KIN-BOOT, because13so much of this fine went to the murdered perSonVnearest relations, as the price of blood, the murderergot a remit. Now, George knowing this to be con¬trary to Moses’ laws, was grieved very much to seeso many pardons sealed with the King’s band lormurder, almost one. every week, it being so usual forthe King to subscribe them, that he would not readthem, nor inquire what they were •, for which causeGeorge writes a wright to the erown, and sent it tothe King to be subscribed, which he actually did, andnever looking what it. >vas, returned it to George.No sooner had he received it, but he goes to the King,and told him it was not time for him to be sittingthere: whereat the King greatly amaz -d, started upjthen George, in a great haste set himself down in theKing ’s chair, forthwith, declaring himsell to be King,saying, You who was king must he my fool, for I aranow the wisest man. The king was greatly offendedat thi“, until George shewed him the. seal and sub¬scription.—But from that day forth, the king knewwhat he subscribed.The next pardon that came to be sealed by the'King, was to a gentleman who had killed two me«before, and had gotten pardons for them by money.Tins being the third, the kntg was very silent in look¬ing over it ; George standing by, asked what he wasgoing to seal now ? To which he answered, it is a ro-mit for a man who has killed three men at sundrytimes, ! gave him two remits before. O ! says George,he has killed but one man. And who killed the o-ther two ? says the king. You did, says George ; forif you had given him justice when he killed the first,lie had killed no more. When the king heard thesewords, he threw down the pen, and declared that suchan act to save a murdarer should be null ever afterby him.One time George having no money, be goes awayand gets a pick and spade, and then falls a digging ata corner of the king's palace ; which the king per¬ceiving from his window, calls out what was hewanting there ? Are you going to undermine myhouse and make it fall ? No, my sovereign, saidGeorge ; but it is verily reported that there is plentyof money about this house, and where can it be ? saysGeorge, I cannot find it; for it is not within thebouse to do me service ; then surely it must be belowit. O George, says the king, that is a crave afterthe new fashion ; what money you want I’ll order itfer you. Then, my sovereign, says George, HI digno more.One time George beiag in the country, he arrivedat an inn, whece he alighted to refresh himself andhis horse. The innkeeper charged him double pricefor every thing he called for. George never grum¬bled at ibis but gave him all his demands, and awayhe goes on his journey. At the inn where he quarter¬ed next night, he was used after the same manner, ifnot worse. Having little farther to go, he returnednext day, and came to the same inn where he hadbeen two nights before. So, when he alighted, theboy asked him what he Would give his horse ? Whatyou will, says he. The master of the inn came intohis room before supper, and asked what he wouldhave for supper. What you will, landlord, says he.After supper, and a hearty bowl to put all down, bewent to bed On the morrow be rose very early, andcalled for the boy to make ready his horse in all haste,for be intended to mount and go directly. Soon after,he went into the stable where the boy was, callingfor his horse, when he mounted with ail the speed hecould, and gave the boy a piece of money, saying,Here, my boy, this is for taking care of my horse;% 15I have paid for all I call’d for In the houscj—and offbe goes; About mid-day he alighted again at an innto refresh himself and his horse, and there he chanced^Po be in company with his other landlord, who usedhim so badly ; Sir, says George, I believe I was inyour house two nights ago. O yes^ Sir, says he, Imind of you pretty well. And where was you lastnight. Last night! says George, ) was in one of theinns, and the civilest landlord I ever had in my life ;they brought all things to me that 1 stood in need of,without calling for them j and when 1 came off thismorning, they charged me nothing, and I paid noth¬ing but sixpence to the boy for dressing my horse.Blood and wounds ! said the old fellow, then I’ll gothere this night Ay, do, says George, and mindthis, when they ask you what will you have for your¬self and your horse, answer. What you will, sir.George smiled within himself to think how be hadgot the one extortioner to take amends of the other.So this innkeeper set off on Ins journey, and rode solate that night, that he might reach the cheap inn, thatmost of the people were gone to bed befere he ar¬rived. As soon as he dismounted Irern hh horse, theboy inquired at him, What shall I give to your horse,master ? To which he answered, What you wiH, boy.The boy hearing this ran away up stairs leaving himand bis horse standing at the door, to his master’sroom, crying, master, master, What you will is comeagain 1 O the rogue ? cries he, where is he ?I’ll cane him.— I’ll what you will him by and byAnd to him he runs with bis cane, licks and kickshim until he was hardly able to mount his horse again,and would give him no entertainment there $ whichcaused him to ride a whole winter night, after he badgot his bones all beat and bruised. So the one pur¬sued the other as a murderer; aad his defence was,i16 ♦That he was a cheat, and a scorner of his house ; ■until the truth was found out.After this, George being in Cornwall about bus¬iness, where he chanced to run short of money, andnot knowing how to make his way to London withoutit, being acquainted with none in that country, butknowing his landlord to be loyal to government, and 5a great favourite of the king his master, he takes apiece of brick, and brays it into small powder, mixedwith a little chalk, so that it might seem in colourlike arsenic, which is strong poision ; then tying it upin two papers, writing on the one, ‘ Strong poison forthe King’ and on the other, ‘ Slow poison for theQueen.’ Out he goes on purpose, and leaves the pau-cels on the table, where he knew they would be look¬ing at them, the landlord perceived the directions.So in comes George in a great haste, and calls out,0 landlord, did yoa see two small parcels I have lost,1 know not what to do, for it was my main businessto take them to London. O you murdering rogue !cries the landlord, I will have you bang’d for whatyou intend. George hearing this, made off, but thelandlord calling fox assistance, he was apprehended,made prisoner of state, and conducted to London bya troop of horse 5 where the people knowing him toldthe guard who he was, they hearing this slipt awayshamefully one by one, George thanking them fortheir good company and safe convoy.George one day easing himself at the corr.er of ahedge, was espied by an English ’squire, who beganto mock him, asking him, Why he did not keekle likethe hens ? But, George, whose wit was always ready,told him, he was afraid to keckle lest he would comeand snatch up the egg. Which rebuff rr.nde the ’squirewalk off as mute as a fish.IIl.fGebrge was met one day bj three bishops, whopaid him the following compliments : Says the first,Good-day, father Abraham-, the second, Good-day*father Isaac ; the third, Good day, father Jacob. Towhich Ire replied, I am neither father Abraham, fa¬ther Isaac, nor father Jacob 5 but I am Saul the sonof Kish, sent out to seek my father’s asses, and lo! Ihave found three of them. Which answer convincedthe bishops that they had mistaken their man.There was a bell at Dalkeith, which the Popishclergy made use of to extort confession from the ig¬norant people, in the following manner1 They toldthe persons who they suspected guilty, the bell wouldrive at the touch of a guilty person, but if not guiltyit would not. By these means they generally fright¬ened the ignorant fnto confession 1 for if the bellwould rive the person was then to be condemned todeath. But they managed the matter so, that the bellwas never brought to trial, till George did as follows •,lie was imprisoned for saying, That the Pope was fal-liable himself; and could not pardon the sins of others.George owned he said so, but would refer to tha bellwhether he was guilty or not. The priests, tho’ un¬willing, were obliged to comply.— George touchedthe bell, repeating as before, The Pope is falliable,and cannot pardon sin ; moreover added, The Popeand the Popish clergy are imposters ; and thereupontouched the bell, referring to it for the truth ; but thebell not rending, the priests were disgraced as im¬postors, George was honourably acquitted ; and thebell was laid aside.A young gentleman that would be witty on theScriptures, eating some cheese full of miies, one night,at a tavern—Now said lie, I have done as mnch asSamson for I'have slain my thousands and ten thou-18sands. Yes, replied George, who happened to be inhis company, and with the same weapon toe, the jaw¬bone of an ass j which set the wboh; company a-l.ii>gh-ing, to see the young gentler, an beat with his ownweapon.George being in company where three bishops werepresent at dinner, they knowing George to be a greatscholar, and comical withal, they put upon him to saythe grace, which he did as follow—Here are three brethren of the coat.Who for thy blessings thank thee not,Curse them Lord, and bless them not. Amen.Fall an, gentlemen, the cause is good. This gracemade the bishops look on one another like fools, whileGeorge laughed heartily at the confusion they were in.A candlemaker having had some candles stolen, wastelling it in a company where George was piesent,who bade him be of good cheer, for, says he, in a shorttime they will all come to light.George being sent to Paris about some business, wentfrom thence to Versailles to see the French king’s•ourt; and being known there by several of thecourtiers, who had been at the English court, one ofthem took occasion to tell the French king, thatGeorge was one of the wittiest men in England ; uponwhich, the French king desired to see him; which hedid, but George, it seems, was out of humour, or seem¬ingly so, and spoke but little to the purpose, so thatthe French king told the nobleman who commendedhim for such wit, that he looked upon him as a verydull fellow ; but the nobleman assured the king, thatwhatever he thought of him, George was a very wittyand ingenious man ; whereupon, the king was resolv-19ed to make further trial of him, ?.r.c. him ir»tg a11 large hall where there was a great . i1' r of fine> ipictures, and among the rest he shewed u:m the pic-i iture of Christ on the cross, ami him if he knewi whom that was ? but Geor ge r i-ide himself veryi| ignorant, and answered No, VV!iy, said the king, l| will tell you,-if you do not ki. w—^This is the pic-j ture of our Saviour on the cross, a r. i hat on the righti hand is the pope s, and that on th>. h ft is ray own.'' •Whereupon George replied, humbly thank your ma-jjesty for the informatiou, for the’ 1 have often heardthat our Saviour was crucified b-. *"<>en two thieves,• yet I never knew who they were before.George being one day travelling to London, andthe weather being very cold and rainy, he alighted atan inn to refresh and warm bim nlk; but the fire being surrounded with people he scarcely could see itGeorge finding this to be the case, call): to the hostler,and orders him to give his horse, at the door, half apeck of oysters. You mean oats. Sir. No, no, saysGeorge, it is oysters, and base, is that horse that willnot eat oysters. The people at the five hearing this,started up and ran to the door to see the horse eat¬ing oysters. The moment they left their seats, Georgetook the opportunity to plant himself before the tirewith a table and cloth aside him. In a little theycume back again one by one, saying, This horse willnot eat oysters. Well, well, says George, be is toofull or too saucy ; so you may bring them in and Iwill eat them myself.One time after this, George being in company a-bout twenty miles from London, and on his wayhomeward, a fine gilded coach came up after htni,and being informed that it belonged to the bishop oiCanterbury, and was going to London for his Lord-ship, George addresses Jnfr.self to the coachman tohave a-passage with him in the coach to London Sohe bargained with the coachman for two dollars tocarry him to the BeiMnn on London bridge ; the onebe gave him in hand as he entered the coach, and'hewas to give him the other as soon ns he saw him c omeout of the coach-door. So away tile coachman drivesto London, in all haste, in'which time George wrotethe following lines— .Here sits the bishop of Canterbury,Who at the schools disdained to tarry.Far better skill’d in games than preaching,And yet he lives by others teaching.JBlind leaders of the blind indeed,’Tis blind and lame that chariots need.Six brutes w.ith eyes this brute doth carry,1 mean the bishop of Canterbury.My feet being lame I gave a dollarTo be drove in state, like you a scholar ;For which I do myself abhor.Shame caus’d me make another door.Ihese lines George battered on the inside of thecoach, and when he came within a mile of London hetook a knife and cut a great hole in the backside ofthe coach, thiough which he came out; and to makeliis promise good to the eoaehman, that he was to givehim the other dollar as scon as ever he saw him comeout at the coach door. The poor coachman drove ontill he came to the aforesaid inn, where he alightedand opened the door to let out his passenger; but see¬ing the coach empty, and a great hole in the hack-side ol it, he cried, I believe Tbave had the devil intthe coach, and he has taken away the backside of itwith him. The people of the inn came flocking a-bout to see what was done ; and then perceived thelinee on tho inside cf the coach, which the bishop cameand read himself, they all concluded it to be done by*21itaeorge, but could make nothing of it j for the bishopsaid, to pursue might well make it worse, but no better.George went into the Mint one clay, when theyWere melting gold. One of them asked George if hewould have his bat full of gold? George readily ac¬cepted, but it burnt the bottom out of his hat, as theyiknow it would, and for that bout they foiled George.■ However, George to be even with them, bought afine large hat, and caused a plate of copper to be pirtbetwixt the hat and the lining; and, returning nextday, they jestingly asked him if he would have ano¬ther hat full of gold ? he said he would. They gaveit red hot, and George now laughed at them in histurn, telling them, That this new hat was a good oneand stood fire better than the old one. And so hei carried ,it oflf honestly; and, being prosecuted to re¬turn it, fie excused himself, telling the judge that hetook nothing but wbat was given him. And there¬fore he was honourably acquitted, and the other hear-I tily laughed at.A Scotchman being reduced to poverty, made hiscomplaint to George to put him in a way to get mo¬ney. George told him if he would follow his direc¬tions he would try it. Thare was an old miser a us-i urer and money-changer hard by, George told the fel-<low to pretend an errand to the miser, and when hecame to the table where the heaps of money lay, tothrust his hand among the gold, but to lift none, andto run off. this the poor fellow did, and was chas¬ed by the miser and his servants, who raft afte; himinto the street, crying, Stop the chief! The poor fel¬low was stopt, (as George bad desired Jo let themcatch him) George appeared in the mob, and wentalbog with him, who was carried before a judge, wherei ire was searched, and nothing being found upon himbe wai acquitted, and the miser fined in a large sumfor accusing him. Afterwards, George desired himto go to th» same place, and thrust in both his hands,and lift up as much as he could, and run off. Thishe did, but the miser told him he was not such a foolas to follow him, for he knew he designed to play thefool to have him fised again. By these means thepoor fellow was enriched, and afterwards lived ho¬nestly.George being at dinner one day, where the brothwas exceeding hot, burnt his mouth, at the same timeletting a load fart. It is very good for you, saysGeorge, that you made your escape, for 1 should hareburnt you alive had yon staid.Two drunken fellows fell abeating one another onthe streets of London, which caused a great crowd of ,people throng together to see what it was; a taylorbeing at work in a garret, about three or four sjtorieahigh, and hearing a noise in the street, looked overthe window, but could not well see them; so he be¬gan to stretch himself, making a long neck, until hefell down out of the window, and alighted upon anold man who was walking on the street; the poor tay¬lor was more afraid than hurt, but the man he fell ondied directly. His son caused the taylor to be appre¬hended, and tried for the murder of his father. The :jury could not bring it in as wilful murder, neithercould they altogether free the taylor; so the jury gaveit over to the judges, and the judges to the king. Theking asked George’s advice in the matter. Why,says George, I will give you my opinion in a minute;you must cause the taylor to stand on the street in thesame place where the old gentleman was when he waskilled by the taylor, and then fet the old gentleman’sson, the taylor’s adversary, go up to the window from .23whence the tayloi fell, and jump down and so kill thetaylor as he did his father; for I can make no moreof it; you see it was a great mercy for the taylor thathe had the old gentleman beneath him, else be hadbeen killed on the spot, and that it was the old gentle¬man’s lot -or misfortune to die there. The taylor'sadversary hearing this sentence past, he would netveature to jump over the window* and so the taylorgot clear off.After this, an English ’squire, who professed tohe better versed in poetry than George, laid a wa¬ger with another gentleman, five guineas against one,that George would not metre the first words that hewould say to him in the morning, when newly awakedout of his sleep ; so the gentleman went the night be¬fore and told George the story, and bade him be onbis guard, for in the morning they would certainly^ome, and that very early. At midnight, if they will,.says George, I will order my servant to let them in#So the English 'squire sat up all night conferringwith his friends, whether to put a high verse to him,or mean simple words ; thinking that George wouldbe sitting up all night meditating on.-an answer ; sothey all agreed, that mean and simple words bn wouldnot be thinking oo» and have no answer provided forouch. So away they came in the morning very early,with several gentlemen in company to hear the diver¬sion. George’s servant opened the door, accordingto his master’s orders. The ’squire entered the rooqajirst and awaked (Seprge cut of his tleep, then oaid,Rise up vou madman and put on your clothes.(To which George answered,)Q thou hast lost ttry madman, for I am none of those.The 'squire confessed he was fairly beat, and wouldtaaUh with him no more. Then another gentlemen24would hold five guitveas, that he would give him aword or line which he could not metre at the first an¬swer, and te answer it directly as soon as he was donespeak'ng ; but George ordered him first to table themoney, and then to proceed, which he did in all haste,»nd said as follows-—My beliy rumbled, and then I farted.(George gripping the money, answered,)A fool and Iris money is soon parted.Then they all cried *ut he was fairly beaten, andwhat George had said was really true ; but he wouldnever lay any more wagers concerning poetry.George being now far advanced in years, and beingweary of the great fatigue and folly of the court fa¬shions, a short time before his death, he had a greatdesire to go and visit his native country, and theplace of his nativity ; therefore he petitioned the Kingfor leave to do so, which was granted. So he set outfor Scotland, and went to the parish of Buchanan, inthe west, where he visited all his relations and friends.But Georgo staying longer from court than the timeallowed, the King sent him several message* to re¬turn, to which lie return’d no answer. At last theKing sent him a letter, threatnjng, that if he did notappear before him in the space of twenty days, hewould send his Lyon Heralds for him ; to whichGeorge returned the following answer—My honour’d Liege, and sovereign King,Of your boasting great I dread nothing jOn your feud and favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day i’ll be where few Kings enter.And he also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of his kingdom,and the well-being of his soul, which drew tears fromthe King’s eyes when be read it.FINIS.