THEIf LIFEA N " -DSurprising AdventuresO F, Frederick Baron Trench.CAPvEFULLY CORKECTED AND ABRIDGED.jy . TO WHICH IS ADDED,A SHORT SUPPLEMENT;iiTing an Authentic Account of his morerecent iTarifinftioftSj til] he fell a Victim to theprevailing Syitem of Anarchy in Fiance; beingientenced to the Guillotine the free,ehConvention. ’}THELfFE AND ADVENTURES IO FFREDERICK BARON TRENCK.TWas horn in the year 1726, at Koenigfberg iPrtiflia. My father deicended from an ancietifamily, was General of Cavalry. He died in ry^after having received eighteen wounds in the fC|vice cf Prurtia. My mother was daughter of tfPrefi.'ent of the Supreme Court of Koenigfbergione of her brothers was Minifter of State, and tfltwo others Generals of Infantry. After my fatherdeath, ftie married Count Loftange, LieutenatColonel of the regiment of Cuiraflbrs of Kiow,had two brothers and a filer: one of my broth*?remained with my mother; the other was Cornin the regiment of Kiovv; and my biter marritthe only fon of old General V."aldow and fettlein Brandenburg.My father lent me, at the age of thirteen to t!tTniverfity of ICoeoigfbcrg, where I made n rapprogrefs in ray education At the end of 1740had a difpute with a gentlemen named Wallenrowho boarded in the fame houfe; he was much tslet and Itronger than me; and defpifing my weahelITHE LIFE AND ADVENTURES, &c. 3idi, thought proper to ftrike me; I demandedarisfaftion which he r-efufmg confempluouf3y, I;ook a fecond, and attacked him in the open itreet.Ve fought; and I h.id the good fortune to woundlim in the hand and arm.This affair was much talked of; and DcRorlowalewfki, our Profeffor, making a complaint> the univerfity, I was fentecced to three hoursOnfinement, but M. Warfchaw, my grand-father,leafed with my Ipirit, took me out of the houfe.;nd placed me, as a boarder, with proftfibr Chiii-ani, There, for the firft time, I began to enjoyStire liberty.Three days after, a proft'fftd bully forced me inmanner to fight: I wounded him in the hip.Thefe fucceffes lo puffed me up, that I nppear-1 in public, with a fworu of enormous length, and1 the appendages of a prize-fighter.;3il ■ I fhould certainly have become a duellift, if the■ cednefs of my heart, and my misfortunes, hadW foon afW brought me to renfen. A fortnightid fcarcely elapfed from my In ft quarrel, beforehad another with one of my friends, a Lieutcn-it of the garriibn, whom I infulted. We fought1 I d I wounded him in two places.Duelling, among the (Indents, was not punifhedI this period; it was looked upon as an honour to-;(! lid a challenge.I* November 1742, Baron Lottum, the King’sirajutant Genera!, a relation of my mother, wasit by his Majefty to Koeniglbergh. He dined at ,',V grand-father’s,"chatted a good deal with me, >: d after having lounded me by a variety of quef- n(iris, alked me if 1 (hould not be tempted to lerve yJj' country, as my ancestors had always done; mding, that in the army I ftiouid find more con- 3nient opportunities c( giving chalienges, than nat•X&i will"   ■■■" WMII.II. .1 ■ ■4 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES;it the univerfity. I accepted this propofal wiuut hefitatioa ; and a few days after we let offPotzdam,I was prefented to the Kiag, to whom 1 \?fc^owD lince the yetr 1740, as one of the bticholars in the univcrfity. He was much pieafwith the pertinence of my anfwers; my ffatuifor I was tall: and my manly affiirance. I oJIMined permifl'ioo to enter into the Life Guarcin quality of Cadet, with promifes of fpeedy pmorion.The Life Guards were at that time, the patteand i’chool of all the Pniflian Cavalry. They Q<filled only of one Iquadron of men chofen fr<the whole army. Their uniform was the mbrilliant in Europe; the drefs and accoutremeof an officer cofting two thouiand crowns,cuirafs, which was covered with filver, its appdages and the hpric’s furniture, amounted ato feven hundred.This Iquadroni confifled only of fix officers, s|an hundred and ferty-four men; but we hadways fifty or lixty fupernumeraries, and as m1’pare horles ; for the King took all the handfulmen he met witn into hL Guards. The offis|were the bell in the army. The King ioffrut|them Iiimielf, and afterwards employed theirdrill the retl of the Cavalry.The duty .of no other icldier in the world ihard, as was that of a Life Guard man ; at;time l was io this lervice, I had not eight hreft in eight days. The exerdle tiled to begiiifour o’clock in the morning; when we triecithe new evolutions the King was deiirous .0:troducing; we leaped ditches, three, four,and fix feet wide, and even more, till fbme !jor other broke ids neck. Sometimes, in a irOF mEt-ERICK B ARON TRENCIC. $ng’s exercife, v,-c had fev'trai uiea raid horfes kd-ted or wounded. The horles were kept ia theking’s tables; and he who could not drefs, arm: nimfelf, faddie his horfe, mount and fail into hisi laRk in eight minutes, was put under arrdt for a; fortnight.'lij The trumpet frequently founded before wenad fearedy got into bed, by way of giving'the yc'ong men a habit o* vigilance. The LifeGuards loll more m.a and horfes in a time ofprofound peace, than they would have done intwo battks.i I had been fcarcely three weeks Cadet, whenone day, after the parade, the King took me a,fide, examined me for near half an hour, on avariety of fubjefVs,- and ordered me to wait onhim to-morrow. He was defirous of leeing whe-• ither the favourable accounts he had heard of mewere well founded; and, to alcertain their truth,gave me the names of fifty foldiers to learn bvi heart, which I did in five minutes. He thengave me the fubje&s of two letters, and I cvm-pofed them immediately in “French, and Latin,■writing one,: and diftating the other. He after-j wards defired me to draw the plan of a piece ofi ground, by the eye, and with all the diipatdi: pc fiible; which 1 did w ith the fame fuccefs. HeI r! cn appoinred me Cornet in the Life Guards.- He {poke to me like a king and a father ; and- from that moment became my tutor, and myf1 friend.i was a Cadet only three weeks. When thusr made an officer, the King gave me two horfes fronti his owu flables, and a thoufand crowns to afiifl iapurchafing roy arms, uniform, &c. I was highly} fa fished to find myfelf a courtier and an officer inthe handfomdf, braveft, and belt difeiplined corps6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESin Europe. My military fortune feemed to bail *no bounds.We palled the winter in gsrrifon at Berlin, whenthe officers of our regitnenr lived with the Court 1and as my reputation had preceded me ihithet |*nobody palled the time in a more agreeable mao.ner than myfelf.In I743» I was fix feet, three inches high ; tilthen, I was a ftranger to lr ve; the (hocking fpechiiicle of the hofpital of Potzd.:ar» made me dread it:|iillufiotis. In 1743, the King’s Sifter was murml-to the K?Pg of Sweden, whole v'idow (he now isjOn this occafion I mounted the guard of honou:i'ji quality of Officer or the Guards, and was ordersd to eicort her as far as Stettin. In the tu¬mult inevitable in a crowd, I loft my watch, atu* (harper was alfo dexterous enough to cut off panof the gold fringe from my waiftcoat. My iofjwas the lubjeff of much pleafamry among the o*ther officers, and a great lady took occafioo to fay,that (he would make it her bufinefs to confblc me.I felt all the meaning of this, and in a few days lwas the happieft man in Berlin. It wa* on batfofidcs the firft tribute paid to Love. Her afftftionfor me was without bounds ; and v hile I exift ifhall never forget her kindnefs ; but the fecret ofour intimacy is one of thole that I will curry withme to the grave. She is dill alive, and an ab-fence of forty-three years has not been capable ofmaking any change in her femiments. My chil¬dren alone, (hall know the name of the perfon toiwhom they a:e indebted for their father’s prefer-vatton.I lived happy asd refpefted at Berlin. TheKing on every occafion gave me marks of favour jtny fair miftrefs lupplied me with more moneythan 1 cculd fpend, and my appearauce was fooa. moreo? FREDERICK BARON TRLNCK. jmore briilnnl thau any officer of the corps. Myexpenccs attracted notice, for I had oaiy inherit-,td from my father the ellate of Sharlack, whichproduced about a thonfand crowns a year 5 and Iidmetitnc's fpcat more than that fum in a month.In the beginning of September 1743, v/ar wasdeclared between Pruffia and the Haute of Aui*itria. We marched haftily towards Prague, andpafTed through ail Saxony without meeting with8the fmalielt oppolition, I dare not relate here whatthe Great Frederick laid lorrowfuliy to us the verymorning of our departure from Potzdam, whenall the officers were aflctnbled about his perfon.This time Frederick took the held with regret, asI was w'itnefs.If I do not miiteke, the King’s army invertedPrague, on the 14th of September; that of GeneralSchwerin who had marched thropgh Silefia, camea day later from the other iide of the Mulda; andwe were obliged to wait eight days longer forpontoons, to open a communication between thetwo armies.General Harch was obliged to capitulate, aftertwelve days rtfiftance. 'Eighteen thouland menwere made prii’onere of war: the number of thegrrriloo kill’d and wounded during the liege notexceeding hve hundred.So tar we mot with no oblteclc; however, theImperial army, uader the command of PrinceCharles, who had left the banks of the Rhine,I advanced to lave Bohemia, his light armed troops,' being thrice as numerous as ours, prevented uurforaging. Famine and wane therefore obliged usIto retreat, having no relief to hope for. irom thecountry behind us, which we had hud entirelywafte on our march. The leverity of the leaiout: in November made the foldiers very impatient, in! <■ fix3 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESfix weeks we loft forty-two thoufard men, eithfby ficknefs. or defertiou. In (hort, we we:eobli|!ed to abandon Bohemia. All the Cavalry wiidifraouoted for want of forage ; the .fevertty nthe weather, the broken road.-, continual tnarchiing, and repeated alarms, diffufed a general- irtiri “of difeontent, and a third of the army detertea.Prince Charles followed us as.far as the fromtiers of Bohemia, ard halted there to put fitroops into winter quarters.. This gave tne Kin;time to recruit his armyj efpecially by the returr [.of his deierters, whom the Auftrians were imprudent enough to diimifs.In this campaign I palled few nights in try Jtent: and my indefatigable aiffivity procured Ci'i 1.the favgur and entire confidence of the King (Nothing contributed fo much to keep up my re-folution, as the public praifes I received, when ireturned to head quarters from foraging with fix-ty or eighty waggons loaded, while ethers carm jback.empty.I was lent one day from Bcnefchen on a forag 1ing party, with a detachment of .thirty Huffarrand twenty Rangers, i polled my HufTars in : jconvent, and went with the Rangers to a gentle¬man’s leaf, to procure a I'ufficient number of wag¬gons to bring off hay and ftraw from an adjacent tfarm. But a Lieutenant of Auftrian HufFars, vhc 1lay conceded in a wood with thirty-fix 1horfe, hav¬ing remarked the weaknels of my dcort, took ad- >vantage of the moment, when my people wer«employed in loading the waggons, and furprifing smy centinel, fell luddenly upon them, and tool* :the whole party prifocers in the farm-yard, I was ’fitting quietly in the gentleman's feat, with the Jtniflrefs of the houfe, and faw from the windowwhat happened.I was sof FREDERICK B AkON TREKCK. fI was affllfted beyond meafure, and the good:ady was propofifig to hide me, whan I heard aaring at the farm. The Hafftrs, poftc-d at theijbonvent, had been told by a peafant, the.t therewas an Auflrian detachment in the wood; they,'aw us go into the fsrm-houfe, hafteoed to oaraffiftance, and came up a few minutes after thefarprile. It is impoffible to exprei^ the plealurewith which I joined then. 'Some of the enemy’sHuffars efc?-ped by the back-door ; however, wemade twenty-two prifoners, among whom was a: Lieutenant of the regiment cf KLaiaockichen.They had two men killed and one wounded, andI loft on my fide two Rangers, who weye killedin the Jjay-loft where they were at work. Afterthis rencounter, we continued to forage with great¬er precaution; the horfes we had taken ferved inpart to draw waggons ; and having laid the con¬sent under contribution to the amount of a hun¬dred and fifty ducats which I diftributed amongmy foldiers to purchafe their filence, we fet off torejoin the army. The King was at table, whenI came into his tent. As I had been abfent thewhole night, every body had fuppofed me taken,which had that day been die fate of many others.The indent I came hi, the King aiked me if I te-: turned alone; c‘ No, Sire,” aniVered I, “ I bring'with me five and twenty waggons loaded with; forage, and twenty-tv/o prlfoners, with their offi-> cers and horfes.” The King immediately mademe fit down: aud turning to the Englifh -\mbal-f’ador,.who was fitting befide him, tapned me onthe fhoulder, and faid, “ This is one of my youth¬ful Matadors !” The horfe intended to reconnoitrethe enemy was already waiting before his tent;he confequcndy aficed me few qUeflicns, and tothofe few I could not anfwer without trembling.Some*1i o THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESSome minutes after, he rofe from table, cadeyes on the prifoners, and putting the Order ofMerit round my neck, ordered me to go and reltmyfelf.As I was not without money, I gave each non-commiflioned officer twenty ducats, and each pri¬vate foldier a ducat, to induce their filence. I de¬termined, however, to embrace the firlt oppor¬tunity of making the King acquainted with thetruth, and found a convenient one two days after.We were on a march, and in quality of Cornet,I was at the head of the troop. The King rodeon before the drums, and beckoning to me to cometo him, add relied me in thefe words: “ NowTrenck, tell me the particulars of year late fuc-cefs.” When I heard this queftion, I did notdoubt m? being betrayed; bur the King alked itv/ith fuch apparent good humour, that 1 relatedthe matter exaftly as it had pafied, I obfervedmarks of aftonifhment in his countenance; but Ilaw, at the fame time, that he was not difpleafedwith my fincerity. He talked with me half anhour, more like a father than a King, praifed mycandour, and concluded with thefe words whichI (hall never forget: “ Depend upon me, andfollow my advice, and I will make a man of yen.’*It was not long before I perceived the confidencethe King placed in me after this explanation, I re¬ceived many marks of it in the courfe of the fol¬lowing winter, which we patted at Berlin.In our retreat from Bohemia, the King enteredKollin with his Htorfe Guards, the piquets ofHorfe belonging to head quarters, and the fecondand third battalions of Guards: we had but fourpieces of cannon, and our fquadron was potted ittthe iuburbs. Towards the evening, our advanceed guards were driven in; the Huttars entered-withiiof FREDERICK BARON TRENCR. 11with them pell-mell into the fubutbs, and th?: tenemy’s light troops fwarraed in all the environs.. iOur commandant lent me immediately to receive:the King’s orders. After having (ought him aJi'great while, i found him at laft on the top of ailleeple, with a perfpeflive glafs in his hand. Inever faw him fo uneafy and undetermined as o^Vthat day. We were ordered to retreat immed!-'ately, and to retire through the town to the opp-o-fite fuburh, w-here we were directed to halt with-i i out taking the bridles or faddles off our horfes.We were i’carcely there, when a dark night came{on, accompanied by a deluge of rain. Aboutnine o’clock, Trenck (an Aufcrian commander,and a relation of mine) appeared with his Turk-ifh mu lie, and let fire to feveral houfes. As (c m: ; as we perceived it, we began to fire mufitetry out11 of the windows. The tumult was terrible. The: ;l town was (o full of people that we could not force) an entrance; the gate wms (hut, and cur fieldi| pieces kept firing from above. Trenck floppedII the paffage of the watery by midnight it was asI high as our horfes’ bellies, and we were almoftentirely abandoned. We loft fix men, and myi horfe was wounded in the neck—It is certain thatthe King, as well as the reft of us, would havebeen made prifoners, if my coufm could have con¬tinued the attack. But receiving a wound in theI foot with a cannon ball, he was obliged to be car-Iried off, and the Pandours retired. The day fol¬lowing, Naffau’s corps came to our affiftance. Weleft Kollin, and while on the march the King faidto me, “ Your coufin might have played us anunlucky trick that night; but, according to thereport of the dele tiers, he was killed.”Abcut the middle of December v/e arrived a<:Berlin, where I was received with open arms, iwassa THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES•was Ids prudent than in the former years, and,perhaps more obferved. A Lieutenant of the Foot!.Guards jelling indecently oa the fecret of my a-nsours, I drew upon him, aud wounded him inthe face. The Sunday after, I went to pay mycourt to the King; “ Sir,” faid he, “ the thunderroars: and if you do not take care, may fall up¬on your head.”Some time after, I came a few minutes too lateto the parade; th: Kino remarked it, and fent meunder arreft to Potzd.un, where I remained up¬wards of three weeks, owing to the artifices ofColonel Warteflaben.I did not recover my liberty till three days be¬fore onr departure for Silefia; towards which wemarched only in May, to begin onr lecond cam¬paign. I will here relate an incident that happen¬ed to me this winter, which became the fource ofall my misfortunes.Francis Baron Trenck, who commanded thePandours in the fervice of Auflria, having beendangeroufly wounded in Bavaria in the year 1743,wrote to my mother to tell her it was his intentionto make me his heir. This letter to which I madeno anfwer, was lint to me at Potzdam.The i nth of February 1744, I was at Berlin,and went to pay a vifit to Captain laichinzki, com¬mandant of the Life Guards, in company withLieutenant Studnitz, and Cornet Wagoitz, wholived with me in the fame apparrment.. The con-verfnion turned ou the Auftrian Trenck, and lai¬chinzki alked me if I was related to him. 1 an¬swered, Yes, and faid that he had made roe his heir.He afked me, what anfwer I had made. I toldhim, None. On this the whole company obferved,that in inch circumftaqces, I fhouid be much inthe wrong if I did not anfwer his letter. fi Writecf FREDERICK BARON TRENCK. 13him,” added our commandant, “ and defirc himi .lend you fome handioiKe Hungarian horfes for: aargers, Give roe your letter, and I will have it1 riivered by M. de BolTirt Secretary of Legation: li the Saxon Anibnflador, on condition that youive me one of the horfes. This correfpondencea family concern, and not an affair of ft-re; be-des, I will take the whole upon me, &c.” I fat; own to write immediately, in compliance withie advice of my commanding officer. I gave my:trer open to lafehinzki; he iealed it himfelf. andnt it away.This letter, with the following incident, wasie foie caufe of all my misfortunes.In the campaign of 1744, one of my groomsjith two faddle horfes was taken, as well as fever-: others, by Trench’s Light Troops, On my rc-rn to camp, I was ordered to accompany the,ing who was going to reconnoitre. My horfering fatigued, his Majeffy immediately made meprefent of a beautiful linglifh race-horfe.A few days after, I was aftonifhed to fee myroom come back with my two horfes, and a trum-:t from the enemy; who brought a note, in near-' thefc terms:1 “ The Auftrian Trendi is not at war with the1 Pruffian Trench, his couftn. On the contrary,» he is very happy to have it in his power to fendi him back his horfes, which he has recoveredi from the hands of his Huflars ”I That day I waited on the King, and was veryholly received, “ Since your coufin,” faid he,has. feat you back your horfes, you have no long-li' any occafion for mine.”: We marched into Silefia to begin the fecond|) campaign,i4 THE LttE AND ADVENTUREScampaign, which was to us as deflruttive as glot'ious ; Prince Charles, inflead of waiting for usin Bohemia, imprudently advanced and poftechimfelf in the plain of Strigau.Our army was drawn in hade from its cantonments in the neighbourhood of Kamenz, and intwenty-four hours was in order of battle. Tht14th of June, eighteen thoufand dead bodies covered the plain of Strigau; and the Imperiaarmv, and that of Saxony, its ally, were totalldefeated.The Life Guards were on the right: before thiattack, the King faid to our fqnadron, “ Now mfriends, prove that yon ate my Guards, and fparno Saxon !” Three times we charged the Cavalryand the Infantry twice. We alone took feveiftandards and five colours, and in lefs than an hocall was over.I received a piftol fhot in the right-hand; nvhorfe was badly wounded, and at the third chargI was obliged to mount another. The followiiijiday, all the officers received the order of Merit; frj|my part I remained near a month in the hofpitjlat Schweidnitz. More than fixtetn thoufaal|wounded men were drefied there; fame of who jitcould get no aflaftance till the third day.The Campaign pafied in marching and counte||marching; we were the mod fatigned, becaufe tlGnards encamped round the King’s tent, whicplaced in the middle of the camp, always formethe van-guard.The famous battle of Sorao was fought on Setember 14th, The King had font firch large ditachments into Saxony, Silefia, and Bohemia thi!}the gran! army confided at moll of twenty-fUthoufand men. Prince Charles, who obflinate:per lifted in judging of hrs enemy by the number■ me!oi FREDERICK BARON TRENCK. 15i (Ben,, had furrounded the fmaH Dumber of Bran-i Lknburgh and Pomeranian troops with more thanI Eighty-fix thoufand men, and was in hopes of tak¬ing them all prifoners.\ About midnight the King came Into my tent,fund went likewife into thole of the other officers' o wake them ; he ordered the horfes to be fad-: lied without noiil\ the baggage to be left behind,ind the whole army to held themlelves in readi-i lefs for action.Eight field pieces were placed behind a rilingi ground oppofite the defile through which thesling meant to pafs, and where H M'as intended: o begin the afticn. He mull have received in-: brmation of ail the defigns of the Aulirian Gen-al, for he had called in all the advanced polls on;he heights to infpire him with greater confidence.At the dawn of day, the Anflrian artilleryslanted on the heights, #noondded oar camp,tiind the cavalry, advancing to attack us, enteredhe defile.< We immediately drew up in order of battle,and in lels than ten minutes- began the attack;1 totwith(landing our fmall number of men (there• vere only five regiments of cavalry with our ar-| ny) and fell with the greateft rapidy on the ene-ny at that moment employed in flowly forming■ heir fquailrons in the front of the defile. Wedilrove them back into the defile, which was erowd-d full of men. The King immediately orderedihe eight field pieces to be unmalkcd, and theyttnade terrible havoc.!i. Nadalle, Trenck, and the fight troops, thatwere to have attacked ns in the rear, Hopped toullage our camp : it is worthy of remark, thatwhen Dews was brought to the King, that theCroats were pillaging the camp, he aalwered:« SoIt; THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES<< So much the better, they will have fomethlagto do, and will not prevent us from carrying the:principal poim.” We were completely vi<fh>rious::but haft the baggage. The head quarters left with¬out defence, were entirely pillaged : and Trenckhad for his (hare of the plunder, the King’s tent,' and all his filver plate.A few days after the battle of Sorjn, the poft-man brought me the following letter from my.coudn Trenck, dated from Elfek, and written fourmonths before.«* I find by your letter from Berlin, of Feb, re,that you defire me to fend you fome Hungarianhorfes, that von may employ them again(1 myHufTare and Pandours. I perceived with plea-fure, in the lad campaign, that the PrufinnTrenck was a good foldier. As a proof-of my<( attachment, I lent you back your horfes, whichtl mv people had taken. But if you want Hunf< grrian horfes, try next campaign to carry oft*t mine by open force ; or elfe come and join you:“ coufin, who will receive you with open arms,“will treat you like his fon and his friend, and“ will procure you all the advantages you car“ defire,” &c.Cornet Wagnitz, and Lieutenant Grarthauforwho are both alive, were prefent; I gave them th<letter, we laughed at its contents; and it was refolved that we fhould (how it to Colonel lafehinz:ki, commandant of the corps, on condition thaibe fhould not fpeak of it. An hour after wc dioas we had agreed When he had read my lette:with ao appearance of affonifh nent, we all begato laugh : and as there was a report that a body ctroops, would be lent to Hungary, loafchinzki fate« w,cf FREDERICK BARON TRBNCK. 17; we will go ourielves, and take lluu(gaii,n:hprle8.,?:Iere the converfation dropped, i. cannot. helpnaking the following obiervations on the fubjeft.! - ih,.l had cot obierved, that the dajg q! the iet-er was four months anterior -to its rtceipt: thisay Colonel did not tail to do. ' ,i; \2d. It was probably a Inare laid by- lafvhiozkt.chefending back of my hori’es, in the proceedingaoipaign had made a nolle. Perhaps'i had .been|crlu»ded,to. write, tin t 1 might 'be cm tapped,by aorgcd anlw'er; tor -it is, certain, that my couhn,naintained, till hU death, that htf had never receittrd a letter from me,, and that coftleqcemiy he hadent uo anfwer. I hill think (and iliail thvays con-Ituie in the lame rniod,) the letter was ••urged,jt Without the libeny of making any, dele nee, orif being tried by a court.mt'nhi,. > was confineds a criminal, in the citadel of G1 -U-; f was neta a dungeon, but in the officers gaard-ropoi, Ivas permitted to walk upon tne ramparts, and wa*wailed on by my ow n iervaots.I wrote to the King, and demanded a court-naitial, offering to fmnxnit to any punilhmentwhatever, if found guilty. So determined a Ryle0 io young a man, did not pleate him, and 1 re¬ceived not anlwer.From my female friend at Berlin, I received;fome confolation, and a thoufand ducats.“ Mere the Baron enlarges on the differentfchemes he tried to effc£l his eicape from the“ prifon of Glatz, his adventures in Bohemia and“ Poland, with Lieutenant Schell, who dclerted“ along with him ; the barbarous treatment he re-“ ceived from the Aultna Trenck at Vienna;“ and gives a recital of the caules of that Genp-ral’s difgrace and imprUonmcut, which endswith) 8 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES“ with the following itrangt relation of the rrtfj“ net of his death i'It was not in Trenck’s power to prevent ninheriting his father’s fortune, which was eWaiSeon me; wifhing, hovei'er; to give me marks of hhatred after Isis death, he made a will full of abftirijmd contradiftory clau'es, which ierved the witlikoidtrs of his fortune, as a pretext toftr-ip me oftThough T re rick was an athieft, nobody hadmore ardent dc/ire then he to acquire an extraothnary reputation ; he therefore rtFolved to put aend to his cx if hi nee : and to make hiinfelf pafsa faint at his death.For this purpofe, three, days before his deathwhen he was in the belt of health poflibie, he rcqnefted the commandant to fend to Vienna forConfefTbr; St. Francis having, as he faid, deciarto him that he would die on his birth-day at nopreciiely. 1 hough every body laughed at his pididfion, the Capuchin Frijr was knt for.The day after Trenck had conkfTed himfeif, hexclaimed, “ God be praded ! my end approachesmy ConferTor is juft dead, and has .>ppeared tme.” Upon inquiry it was found that the monwas really dead. Trtnck then begged all the offeers of the gefrifon to come to h:s prilon; toothe ton lure, d ref fid himfelf in tli^ habit of a Cvpuchin Friar; made a public confeffion, and preaced :n hour, exhortirg his audianee to think c[their falvation He then took leave of them, kcedown to lay his prayers, tell into a found fleejrole, and prayed again. the 4th he lookeat his watch, at ekven o’clock in the moruinj;and cried out, “ God be praiied my bft hourcot tar off.” Every body pretent was msch etitertained at feeing a man of his char&ifer play 1ridiculotof FREDERICK BARON TRENCK. 19idiciilous a comedy. However, it was remarkedhat his face grew pale on the left fide. He thenicated himfelf bdide a table, leaned his head uponibis hand, «»nd, after laying a prayer, coatinaednotiorlels, with his eyes flint.i, JVly coufin was acquainted with the fecret poilbni I ailed yicqua laffiina: he made his ConfelTor theConfident of' all his affairs, and employed him toHelivtr ieveral jewels, and bills cf exchange, ofvhich he wtlhed to make prelents j among others,11 know, that at that time, he lent back to a great' Vince, a bill of exchange for two hundred thou-t Find florins, due to him from the Prince; not alorin of which I ever recovered, although I wasTrenck’s only heir. However, as it was needfary0 put it out of the Confdlbr's power to betraydm, he gave him a dole of poilon iufficieot tolilpaoh him, in feme refrdhniects th..t he mademm partake of, before his departure; and theWeft '.dually died in a very little time after hiseturn. Trcr.ck took the iike fort of poilba him-elf, and therefore knew the ekaff hour of hisdeath. As he could no longer procure rdpeft1 while living, he was rdb’ved to be honoured, andtainted if poflible, after his deceale.I i be luperftition of the populace was a fufncknt1 ecurity to him, that he fhould obtain credit for thei»er forma nee of miracles, ihat he might exett itthe mf>re powerfully, he ordered a tmall chapel toi re erefled to his memory, aud endowed it with fix■'ihoufaiid florins. Thus died in his thirty-fourthyear, this extraordinary man, to whom Nature hadueen prodigal of her gifts, and who had been longMi tenor to the enemies of the Hate under whichlelerved. He lived like atyri at, and an enemyo his fcllow-crctsturcs; and died with a repuu-ion of holinefs, that l>e certainly little deferved.InI20 .THE LIFE AND ADVENTURE Jla fpite of sll my pains and efforts, I found iiitnpoffibk to obtain the enjoy riant of my inheriijauce. 'ihoi'e who had the adm uifiration of thifortune my coufin had left me, were too powerfufor me to make them .reiinquifh their hold. Ithe mean time, the Empreis Queen gave mecompany of cavalry in the regiment of -Cniraflierof Lurdora. I his final! favour was the only mftiigatiou of all the injuries I had luffered.Dilcocteated with my fituution, and curfinmy fate, i went to join my regiment in Hungarywhere i propcied to wan till fortune was tired tperkcuting me.In the month of March, 1754, I received newof the death of my mother, and afked the Boarof War for fix months leave of ablence to go iDantxick, in order to concert with my brotheiand liftor the lleps necelfarv to be taken, relativto any pollffTions that had been couhicated iFrulfia. 1 obtained it: and in the mouth of Mrfet off tor that city, where I fed a iecond time itto the hands of the Prufltaas.ihe people of Vienna concerned in my coufiacfFefts, by ieveral baie fchemes, and fade hdiuu; .tions, endeavoured to get me again into hantof the FrufFtans, that they might quiaiy. enjoy thifon-une which was jutliy tr«y due.My brothers aud filler came to me at Dantzicin M.y We pafftd a fortnight together, atihared my mother’s fortune.;“ 1 he Baron’s pleafures were fhort lived •, ti“ Magiftracy of Dantzick, intimidated or brib“ by the Ring of Pruffia, whoie revenge was ft“ unlatched, wtieu he was on the very eve of c“ parting from their city arrefted and furrenderfi him into the hands of that delpot; and with“ ftrorof FREDERICK BARON TRENCK. 21‘ flrong efcort he was coudufttd 10 the Garrifon: ‘ of Magdeburgh, ia Frulfia.”The King ordered a new dengeon to be built ont purpofe for me, and prel'cribed the form of the:'chains I was to wean When I was led to it, good: Heaven! What did I perceive; two lockfmiths,1 with their hammers and anvil, and the whole doorf covered with chains. They went immediately to: work; my feet were fadened with enormous chainsto a ring funk in the wall; at about three feet from; the ground, fo that. I could only take two or threei Reps on each fide. They then girt my naked bo~1 dy with a broad iron girdle, from which deicend-ed a chain, fadened at the other extremity to an bar of iron, two feet long. At each Tend of thisI: bar was a handcuit, that confined my hands; and1 a collar was added in 1756. As loon as the work8 was completed,' every body retired [a fiience ; andI heard the dreadful creaking of four doors, whichr i ihut dole upon one another.The name of Trench had been' incruded on theo wall with rid bricks; and under my, feet was aStomb intended for me, on which alfu was my name,and a Death’s-head. There were two oaken doors•1 to the dungeon; and in the way to it a kind of lob-d by, into which a window had, been opened, and1 which was likewife fecored by tuo doors of th^I' fame kind. It was the King’s intention that thisdungeon fhould be built in itich a manner, as to putit out of my power to have the lead communication» with the centinel; it was furrouaded wirh palli-I fades twelve feet high, forming a kind of park;and the key was depofited with-the guard officer.Here then did I remain, without conioiatiuu andwithout affiltaoce, ftretched out, in the dark, upona damp pavement. My chains feemed infupportablebefore22 THE LIFE AND ADVWTtf&ESbefore I was ufcdt fo theft), i eanoot tkteri’be whsI fufFered the fir ft night In ihe im perfect dontawefthat prevailed, 1 could diftinguifh the form of tndungeon. It was ten feet lonfg, and eight broadin one comer was a bind of bench of brick intend1ed for a feat •, and oppofite the place where I waichained, was a window of lemi-circtllar ford), whk’lWas opened throwgh a wall, fix feet thick •, it wa-one foot in height, and two feet in breadth. 'Fifepalfage through Which the Jig'ht penetrated into nrprilbd, took its diregion upwards, as far as tb:middle of the wall, and then defeended outwardtowards the earth, forming an angle, with (Ironpiron bars at each extremity. My eyes, after formtime be. ante fo arcufioRitd to the darknefs of fhihole, that I could iee a moufe run along the floorbtw in the winter when the fun was not vifible, imight be truly faid to live in eternal night.I had tamed a rnonfe lo perfefUy, that the link?animal was continually playing with me, and ufecto eat out of mv mouth. One night it fkipped a-bout fo much, that the centinals hearing a noife.made their report to the officer of the Guard. ThtTown Major -rrived early in the morning, accom¬panied by locklmiths and mafous. The floor, thewalls, my chains, and my body, were ftridlly ex¬amined : but finding all in order, they afked methe CaUfe of Lift evening’s fcuftle. Having heardthe moufe myfelf, 1 frankly told them by what ithad been occsfiofced, on which they deft red meto call my little favourite ; I whiftled, and it im¬mediately leaped upon my fhoulder. I folicited its »pardon, but the Officer of the Guard took it intoiMhis poflefiion, promifing however, to give it to a;;lady for whole care he would ardwer. Turning itjiafterwards looie in his chamber, the moufe foon jindif.ippcarcd, and hid in a hole. But at the ufual ahour ftor FREUSRiCK; BARON TRENCK. 23i:.our of vifiting ray prifon, when the oificers wereft going away, the poor littic animal darted io,1 limed up my legs, feated itldf on my Ihouidt-r,bd played a thouland trieks, to CKprels its joy*: ..very one was aftoniftied at this .ft rising inftancelit animal feafibility. The Major carried the moufe1 way, and gave it to his wife, who had a light:ilge made for if, but the little animal refufiog to,t, was a few days after found dead.“ In (his feclufion the Baron remained nine1 years, when the King, probably tired of punifh-1 ing, coniented to fate releaie. After which he1 retired to Vienna, whore he was confined a fhortI time at the inftigation of thofe who enjoyed hit*1 property, trader a falfe charge of tn idnefs, heII found himfelf neeeffitated to withdraw his pc-:: cuuiary daitns 5 and, after the lodes, only re-:; ceived the brevet rank of Major in the Aullriani.;fervicc.”II No doubt the Revolution i» France pointed outoat country as a place where he might finifh hislays in liberty and peaces Vha* then tnuft be thetrader’s aftoniflimcnt at the tragical fate whichle Baron at laft met io that nation. It does notppear what part our hero took in politics; or upon1 'hat Ipecific charges he was fenteoced to theiiluillotine, upon the downfall of Robefperre’sI'arty. To us it remains a myftery, how a manf Trench’s charaffer, who had been the conftantwartyr of arbitrary power, could be deemed ob¬noxious to the caufe of Liberty. Surely the mofttern and rigid tribunal might have felt fome j’ymp-^ms of remorfe in pronouncing lentence of deathpon the hoary head, that for fixty-eight years, had•ruggled isceflhntly with the wayward perfecu-tions24 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES, &c.tions of Fate, and had fuffered more than hum#Nature "is, in 'general* thought capable of bearing*-ri-For the r6ft, sve make no d<iubt but Trenck eviajced the thme heroic-fortitude in Ms laft momentiwhich charafterir.ed the whole tenor of his life.We (hall fiaina the prefent biographical fketcfwith quoting the Baron’s addrefs to Ms readerswith which he 'concludes the fourth and laft Valume of his life, it is (IrVkmgly pathetic, and wmight add ominous for it would almoft tempt uto conjefture, that rrenclt, at the time of writin,this addrefs, h.Mt '&. prefihu'toeni of the fate that awaited him. Ke writes as foliows. m“ God, who hitherto has enabled me, amidft“ thouland perils to aft the part of an honeft mar“ and of a real martyr to the caufe of Truth, will“ trail proteft and llrengthen me in the laft fcetiof my tragedy, nor fniFer my fortitude to fail m“ when I miet with obllaclds irifurmoilntable !“ Mean while, to you, ye friends of human kin“ who have not read my hiftory without emotion,“ commend my children, when I (hall be ftretche“ on the field, and mbuldfering in the dull. In thgrave I (hall be deaf to the voice of Fame; the:(hall my weary limbs at length find relt. My heirft is already grey; and I have had reafon to impr«“ cate each riling fun, that (beds its beams on 1“ many tyrants and knaves. O ! were this the ladav of my beholding them ! Long has my it“ quifitive eye been weary of viewing mankint« The haplefis viftim, who, like me, has been fo“ fixty-eight years, expoled to the perfecoting fuiof relentlefs Fate, nault wi(h for repofe-in the illent grades of Death !”F I N I   — -.,.1..,. m-r- , M«nwurnr»-»~. .. —Glafgow, Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, Saltmarkct, it39-