CHOICE DROPOF HONET FROM THE ROCK,Word of adviceT OSaints and Sinners.By T H O M A S W I L C O C K, D. D.—     • '■ ■ 1' !'  ' ■ — - ■ ---For I will reftore health to thee, and F will heal tfceof thy wounds, faith the Lord. Jer. xxx. 17*IEdinburgh; feinted In yeart•»»■9WORD OF JDV ICEA WORD of advice to my own heart and thine :Thou art a profefTor, and partakeft of all the ordi¬nances, thou doll well, they are glorious privileges ;but if thou haft not the blood of Chrift at the root ofthy profeflion, it will wither, and prove but paintedpageanty to go to hell in.Try and examine every day, on what bottom thyprofellion and hope of glory are built, and whetheris was laid by the hand of Chrift, if not, it will neverendure the ftorm that muft come againft it. Satanwill throw it down and great ■will be the fall there¬of.Glorious profeflbr ! thou (halt be winnowed ; eve¬ry vein of thy profeftion will be tried to purpole : tisterrible to have it all come down, and to find no¬thing to build upon.Soaring profeftor ! fee thy waxen wings betimes;they will melt with the heat of temptations. AVhata milery is it to trade much, and break at length ;and to ha\e no ftock, no foundation laid for eterni¬ty.Gifted profeiTor! look there be not a worm at theroot, that will ipoil all thy fine, gourd, and make ifdie about thee in a day of fcorching; look over thy'foul daily, and a(k, Where is the blood of Chiift tobe feen upon it ? What righteoulcels is it that 1 itaiidupon to be favfcd ; have I got otf all my leii-righteoul-nefs ? Many eminent profit-ifors have come at lengthto cry out, undone, undone, to all eternity.r ( 3 )Conuder the gjeateit lins may be hid under thefj gltaLeft. duties. See the wound that fin hath made in3 thy loul, be perfefbly cured by the blood of Chrift ;a not Ikmned o«er with duties, humhlings, enlargements*Apply what thou wilt bcfides the betides of Chrift, it>i will poilon (he fore. Thou wilt find that lin wasn never mortified truly ; nothing can kill it but the<j beholding thrift’s rightecufnefs.Nature can afford no balfam fit for the cure of afl foul. Healing from duty and not from Chrift, is thefj U’^ft defperate dileafc. Poor ragged nature, with allfiifs highett improvements, can never fpin a garmenttfiue enough to cover the fjtiPs nakednefs. Nothing is■ fit for that ufe but Chrift’j pcrfeft righteoufnels.Whatever is of nature’s putting on, Satan . willcome and plunder it, and leave the foul nakedIjaud upon to the wrath of God. All that nature canUdo will never make up the leaft dram of grace that).caa mortify fin, or look Chrift in the face one day.I ho art a profeflTor, and goeft on hearing, praying,mnd receiving, yet miferable mayeft thou be. Look.about thee ; didit thou ever fee Chrift to this day injdiftinclion from all other excellencies and righteouf-neii in the world, and all of them falling before theIjinajefty of his love and grace ?If thou haft leen Chrift truly, thou haft feen pureHgrace, pure righteoufnels, far exceeding all fin andta.ftlery. It thou halt feen Chrift, thou wouldft net dora duty without him for ten thouland worlds. If everfjtlx.u fuw Chrift, thou fawjeft him a Reck higher than: a'1 01 ■!‘1 • 1-us rock doth follow thee, andhere will be a continual dropping of honey and graceat of that rock to luisfy tnee. Examine if everi-nou halt be,tdd Chrift as the only beg.u-ten of th¬at!,er, lull of grace and tru'n. Hc fure if thou artome to Chrift, that thou handed upon the Rock ofj^cs ha^anLvered his call to thy foul, halt cioUd|v4Juui .or juitiiication.( 4 ) , , .Men talk bravely of believing while whole andfound, but few know it. Chrift is the myftery of tbsgofpel. Grace is the my(Vei-y of Chrift. Believing itthe moft wonderful thing in the world. Put any thingof thine own to it, and thou fpoileft it ; Chrift willnot fo much as look at it for believing. When thoucomeft to Chrift, thou rnuft leave behind thee thy ownrighteoufuefs, and bring nothing but thy fin, (O thatis hard!) leave behind all thy holincfs, and bring no¬thing but thy wants and mileries, elfe Chrift is not fatfor thee, nor thou for Chrift. Chrift will be a puiCRedeemer, and thou muft be an undone (inner, orChrift and thou will never agree. It is the hard eftthing in the world to take Chrift alone for riglne-oufnefs; that is to acknowledge him Chnft. J°'dany thing to him of thy own, and thou un-ChnitWhatever comes in when thou goeft to God foracceptance, (befides Chrift) call it Antichnft, b.d itbegone, make only Chrift’s righteoufaefi triumphant;all befides that is Babylon, which muft fall if Chnftftand, and thou (halt rejoice in the day of the nuthereof. Chrift alone did tread the wine-prels, andtherewas none with him. Join any thing to Chii > ‘ewill trample upon it in fury and anger, and (lain msraiment with the blood thereof. Thou th.nkeft iteafy to belive ; was ever thy faith tried witn a tho¬rough fight of fin ? Was it ever put to the grapplewith Satan, and wrath of God lying upon the con-fcience ? When thou waft in the mouth of hell, thendid God (hew thee Chrift a la.afom? 11 t;;oucouldft fty, Oh I fee grace enough 10 Chnft . thoumaveft fay that which is the biggeft word, thou be¬lieved: ; but tried faith is uncertain faith.To believing, there muft go a clear convicftion offm, and the merits of the blood oi Chnft, andChrift’s willingnefs to Cave upon this confic.erationmerely, that thou art a (Inner : things all harder tnanif) .to make a world. All the power in nature cmnotpet up fo high, in a ftorm of fin and guilt, as reallyto believe there is any willingnels in Chnft to fave.When fin chargeth fin upon the conkience, thencharge it upon Chrift, that is gofpel-like; that is tomake him Chrift, he ferves for that PurPofe-r;To.;“;-cept his blood and righteoufnefs alone for felvation,that is the whole fum of the gofpel. When the foulin all duties and diilrefies, can lay nothing but thriftfor jollification, fandification, and redemption > notduties, not humblings, not graces, that loul hathgot above the reach of the billows.h All Satan’s advantages arc laid in felfnghteoufne s,God nurfueth this byfctting Satan upon thee ; this muttbe torn from thee, this alone hinders Chnit from com- 4ing in, and till Chrift come in guilt will nod go out ;and where guilt is there is hardnels ot heart. _When guilt is raifed up, take heed ot getting it al¬layed any way but by Chrift's blood. Make Chrifttby peace, not thy duties, thy tears, Chnlt thy ng -teoutnefi, not thy graces; look at Chrift, and do smuch as thou wilt. Stand with all thy weight uponChrift’s righteonfnefs, take heed of having one foot onthy own righteoufnefs, another on thrifts. HUChrift come and fit on high upon a throne of grace inthe comeience, there is nothing but guilt and terror*the foul hanging between hope and deipair which is anungolpel ftate. . ,Ire that fears to fee the utmoft hell of his ownheart,fiifpeds the merits of Chrift; He thou, evei fuch agreat finner try Chrift to make him thy advocate, andwilt find him Jefus Chrift the righteous. In all douot-ings; fears, ftoims of confcience, look at Chnit con-tinuallv. Ifo not argue with Satan, he defircs r.ebetter/bid him go to Chrift and he will anfwcr him ;it is his office to be our advocate, his office to am wet*the taw as our furety, his office to anfwer juftice a?( 6 >uprm.t; if thou wilt do any tirns thy felf to Rive fatis-tai.lion for fin, thou renounced Chrift the righteous.Satan may allege and currpt feripture, but he cannotanhver fcnptnre.-his ChvHt's word of mighty autho-my thrift foiled Satan with ; in all the feature thereown0 -aiV 7°rd aSamft a r°or firmer llript of hisown nghteoufnefs; nay, plainly points this man forfa •nr-dCe-n-f 6 ?0 pC"1 ani1 none a!fc- Relieve butChnft s wilhngnefs, and that wili make thee willing.It thou find tlK>u cannot believe, remember it isChn,t s work to make tnce lel'eve. put him open it.I e works to wall and to do ; mourn for thy unbelief,,-nn ra 1S/ettlUg Up gUllt above ChrHt' an nndervalu*ingChnd accounting his blot d an unholy, a commonand unfatisfyung thing.Thou complahi ift much of thyfelf, doth thy fin makethee look at Chnft, lefi, at thyfeif? that is ,'ight, eife<-omp!aming is but hpocricy; to be looking af dutiesand graces, when thou (houldlt at Chrift, that is piti- ‘tul s looking at them will but make tlveeproud ; look-Jng at t hrift’s grace will make thee humble. In allthy temptations be not ddcouraged, thole forges maybe not to break thee, but to heave thee oft' thylelf, onthe rock Chrift.Thou mayeft be brought low, even to the brink of, re:ldy t0 tumble in ; thou cauft not be broughtlower than the belly of hell ; yet there thou mayeft:ny and look towards the holy temple. Into the oldtemple none m.ght enter but purified ones, and withan offering too. But now Chrift is our temple, towhom none but finners, and that without any offeringbut Ids owm blood once offered.1 hou thinkeft, oh. what monument of grace fiiould■>e: tiicre are many thou lands as rich monuments asthou : The greateft (inner did never pads the grace ofChrift. AViien the clouds are blacked then Jook.to-vvaids Chrift the pillar of the father’s love, let up inHis blood fppaks reconciliation, redemption, remif-ison, and nighnefs to God. N©t a drop of his bloodmall be loll. Stand and hearken what God willfiy, for he will fpeak peace to his people, that theyreturn not to their folly. He fpeaks grace, mercyand peace; that is the language of the Father andofChnft. Wait for Chrift appearing as the morningftar ; he lhall come as certainly as' the morning asretrefhing as the rain.The lun may as well be hindered from rifin'r asChrilt the fun of righteoufnefs. Look not a momentoft Chrill; look not upon lin but look upon Chrift al-fo. In every duty look upon Chrift, before duty topardon, in duty to ailift, after duty to accept. With¬out this it is but carnal and carelefs duty, ’do notlegabze the gofpel, as if part did remain for thee onlyto do, and Chrift but an half Mediator. Let finbreak thy heart, but not thy hope iu the golpel.In the higheft commands, confider Chrift not'as anexaftor to require, but as an undertaker to work.If ihou haft looked at duties and qualifications morethan at the merits of Chrift, it will &>it thee dearNo wonder thou goeit complaining, graces may beevidences, but the merits of Chrift alone muft be thefoundation of t»y hope.When come to God, we muft bring nothing butChrift with us. Any ingredients or any previous qua¬lifications of our own, will poilbn faith. He thatbuilds on duties or graces knows not the merits ofChrift ; 1 his makes believing lb fir above nature. ]fthou believeft, thou muft every day renounce thy obe¬dience, thy lanftification, thy duties, thy graces, thytears, thy meltings, thy humblings, and nothing butChrift muft be held up ; thou muft take all out ofGod’s hand, thrift is the gift of God ; faith is thegift of God. Pardon a free gift. Ah! how natureitorms, frets, rageth at this, that all of gift, and itcan purchafe nothing with ,ts tears and duties, and-*4( & )that all its workings are excluded, and of no value inIf nature had been to contrive the way of falvation,it would rather have put it into the hands of faints orangels, to fell it, than of Chrift who gives it freely.It would have fet np a way to purchafe by doing ,therefore it abominates the merits ot Chnft, as themoft deftruaive thing to it. Nature could any thingto-be fared rather than come to Chnft, or c ole withhim. Chrift will here nothing, but tjie loul will beforcing fomewhat of its own upon him : herein is that;reat controverfy. ConGder, didft thou ever fee me¬rits of Chrift, and the infinite fatisfaaion made by hisdeath f Didft thou ever fee this when the burden oi'fin and the wrath of God lay heavy on thy confcience ?That is grace. The greateft of thrift's merits is notknown but to a poor loul at the greateft io<S' ^convSflions will but have flight low pnlings, oi Cbnlt sblood and merits. ,1Defoairing fmner! thou lookeft on tby right handand on thy left, Ikying, who will lhew us any^odoThou art tumbling ever all thy duties and graces, topatch up a righteouftiefs to fave thee. , ,, ,P Look Chrilt, look unto him and hefaved, all theends of the earth. He is a Saviour, and there .s nodebelides him. Look any where die, anjdone. God will look at nothing but Chnft, atidlhoumuft look at nothing die, Chrift is lifted on high,,as the brazen ferpent in the wildernels, that finners |'at the ends of the earth, at the gieateft diftance may |ree h’ni and look towards him. He will forgive notXSen times, but feveutyfeven. It put the faith10 believe this, becauie we arc bard to forgive, wethink Chrift is hard.$NS.