iroJ oit'jIKO 9J39’h9(PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.     —     = ^.08 ob 19JOHN FALKIRK’SCA RICHES;ANDJANET CL INKER’S©HATIOlir, ION THE VIRTUES OF THE OLD WOMENANDTHE PRIDE OF THE YOUNG.ft 81g'tfflIXJA'i KHOt1a n a i ii a aJOHN FALKIRK’SB'/l'-LF/MO-Til/AlCA RICHES.. ■ ■Q. What is tli3 wisest behaviour ofof ignorant persons?A. To speak of nothing but whatthey know, and to give their opinion ofnothing but what they understand.Q. What time is a scolding wife atthe best ?A. When she is fast asleep.Q. What time is a scolding wife atthe worst ?A. When she is that wicked as to tearthe hair out of her head, when she can’tget at her neighbours, and thro’ perfectspite bites her own tongue with her ownteeth.—My hearty wish is, that all suchwicked vipers may ever do so.sj£iij idginib Jg3f)'n:H 21 *< »yQ What is the most effectual cure andimallible remedy for a scolding- wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of thehearing of her: but the infallible remedyis to nail her tongue to a growing tree,in the beginning of a cold winter-night,and so let it stand till sun-rising nextmorning, then she’ll become one of thepeaceblest women that ever lay by aman’s side.-; „ , 133 J ft 'J * • * • * i •-» MQ. What time of the year is it thatthere are most holes open ?A. In harvest hen there aie stubbles.Q. What times is a cow heaviest ?A. When the bull’s on her back.Q. Who was the goodman’s mucklecow’s calf's mother ?A. The muckle cow herself.Q. What is the likeliest thing to a manon a horse ?A. A Tailor on a mare.4Q. What is the hardest dinner thatever a Tailor laid his teeth to?A. His own goose, tho’ ever so wellboiled or roasted.Q. How many toads’ tails will it taketo reach up to the moon ?A. One, if it be long enough.Q. I low many sticks gangs to thebigging of a craw’s nest?A. None, for they are all carried.Q. How mz ny whites will a wellmade pudding-prick need ?A. When well made it will need nomore.Q. Who was the father of Zebeilee’schildren ?A. Zebedee himself.Q. Where did Moses go when hewas full fifteen years old ?A. Intp .hjs sixteenth.Q. How near related is your aunty’sgood-brother to you?'i. .. , ' r ’ r? j f J /- 'A. He is my father.Q. Hov many holes are there in ahen’s doup ? A. Two.Q. How prove you that?5A. There is one for the dung andanother for the egg.Q. What is the best method ofcatch-ing rogues ?A. There is none so fit as a roguehimself.Q. Where was the usefulest fair inScotland kept ?A. At Mullgay.Q. What sort of commodities werethere ?A. Nothing but ale and wickedwives.Q. How was it abolished ?A. Because those that went to it oncewould go to it no more.Q. For what reason ?A. Because there was no money tobe got for them, but fair barter, wifefor wife ; and he who put away a w^fefor one fault, got another for her, withtwo as bad.Q. What was the reason, that inthose days a man could put away hiswife for pissing the bed, but not forsglflD .^fjorw o" n'o'f'h hoeA. because he could shut it awaywith his foot and lie down.cIins. gnuf) 9t?j idi.sno ei OTariT .kQ. What is the reason now a-daysrthat men court, cast, marry, and re¬marry so many wives, and only but onein public at last?, r ■ rA. Because private marriage is be¬come as common as smuggling, andcuckclding no more thought of thanfor man to ride a mile or two up¬on his neighbour’s mare : men get willand wale of wives; the best portion andproperest person is preferred, the firstleft the weak to the worst; and shewhom he does not love he puts away,and lies down with whom he pleases.Q. How will one know" the bairns ofour town, by all others in the kingdom ?A By their ill-breeding, and badmanners.Q. What is their ill-breeding andbad manners.• U M vJ C v * W JA. If you ask them a question in ci¬vility, ifit were but the road to the nexttown they’ll tell you to followyour nose,and ifyou go wrong, curse the gude.7Q, Are young and old of them alikefor ill breeding ?A. j411 the odds lies in the difference,for if you ask a child to whom he belongs,or who is his father, he’ll bid you kisshis father’s a—e and then you’ll ken.Q. What sort of creatures is kindliestwhen they meet ?A. None can exceed the kindness ofdogs when they meet in a market.Q. And what is collie’s conduct whenthere.A. First, they kiss other's mouthsand noses, smell all about, and last ofall, they are so kind as to kiss otherbelow the tail.Q. What is the coldest part of a dog ?A. His nose.Q. What is the coldest part of a man ?A. His knees.Q. What is the coldest part of a woman ?A. Her back. eid vV edfij M)bQ. What is the reason that these threeparts of men, women, and dogs aiecoldest ?8A. Fabulous Historian says, thatthere was three little holes in Noah’sArk ; and tin t the dog stopt his nosein one, and the man put his knee inanother, and into the third and biggesthole, the woman bang’d her backside :and these parts being exposed to thecold blast, makes them always coldever since.Q. What remedy does the man takefor warming his cold knees?A. He holds them towards the fire ;and when in bed, draws his shirt down*over them.Q. What does the woman do, towarm their cold parts 3A. The married women put theirbackside into their husbands’ arms :—Virgins, and those going mad for mar¬riage, their maidenhead keens themwarm :—old matrons, and whirl’d-o’ermaidens, and widows bewitched, holdtheir coldest parts to the fire.Q. And what remedy does the poordog take, for his cold nose ?He staps it below his tail, thehotest bit in his body. i i£c[9Q, What is the reason the dogs areworse on chapmen than on any otherstrangers ?A. It is said, the dogs have threeaccusations against the chapmen, whichhas been handed down from father toson, or from one generation of do^s toanother: the first is as as old as iEsop,the great wit of Babylon.—The dogshaving a law-suit against the cats, theygahred the plea ; one of the dogs com¬ing trudging home with the Decreetbelow his tail, a wicked chapman threwhis elwan at him, and he let the Decreetfall, and so lost their great pivilegesthereby. The second is, Because in oldtimes the Chapman used to biiy dogsand kill them for their skins. The thirdis, When a chapman was quartered ina farmer’s house, that night the Doglost his right of licking the pot.w v: s'. , ; lari a vslQ. What creature resembles mosta drunken piper ?A. A Cat when she sips milk, sheal ways sings, and so does a piper whenhe drinks good ale.10Q. What is the reason a dog runstwice round about before he lie downto lest him ?A. Because he does not know thehead of his bed from the foot of it.Q. What creature resembles most along, lean, ill-looking, greasy-facedlady, for pride ?A. None so much as a cat, who iscontinually spitting in her lufe and rub¬bing her face, as many such ladies dothe brown leather of their wrinkledchafts.Q. Amongst what sort of creatureswill you observe most of a natural lawor instinctive knowledge ?A. The hart and the hind meet on onecertain day in the year; the broad gooselays her first egg on Easterns Even, oldstile; the crowsbegin tobuildtheirnestsabout the first of March, old stile ; theswans observe matrimony, and if the fe¬male hie, the male dare not take up withanother or the rest will put himtodeath;all the birds in general join in pairs and11keep so; but the dove resembles theadulterer, when the hen grows old hepays her away and takes another ; thelocusts observe military order, andmarch in bands;'the frogs resemblepipers and pedlars, for the young onesride the old ones to death. »Vj .......Q. Who are the merriest & heartiestpeople in the world ?A. The sailors, for they’ll be singing,cursing, and damning one anotherwhen the waves, their graves, are goinofover their heads.Q. Which are the disorderliest crea¬tures in battle ?A. Cows and dogs; for they all fallon them that are neathmost.rQ. What are the vainest sort ofpeople in the woi Id ?A. A barber, a tailor, a young sol¬dier, and a poor dominie.' ana o > rw. » iti/ /■\Q. What is the great cause of thebarber’s vanity ?A. Because he is admitted to trim12Noblemen's chafts, thake their sculls*take Kings by the nose, and hold a ra¬zor to their very throats, which nosubject else dare presume to do.slcunsiaa't e'goit sdi jai oBtf nt rioiafnQ. What is the great cause of theTailor’s pride PA. His making of people's newclothes, of which every person, youngand old, is proud. Then, who can walkin a vainer shew than a Tailor carryinghome a gentlematTs new clothes ?Q. What is the cause of a youngSoldier’s pride ?-BSio Jasinoh'iogih sdi yus rioirT// .£)A. When he lists, he thinks he isfree of his mother's correction, the hardusage of a bad master, his liberty tocurse, swear, whore, and do every thing,until he be convinced by four halbertsand the drummer’s whip that he hasnow got both a nvilitary and civil lawabove his head, and, perhaps, far worsemasters then ever.Mttimob -root! <i banQ. What is the cause of the poorDominie's pride ?s v tiii*> / fc^*23*ix*c*A. As he is the teacher of the young13and ignorant, he supposes no man knowswhat he knows ; and because boys callhim master, therefore bethinks himselfa great man. h diho* aitl moil omoo-mBTa sn ti gij ni h-iaiiDsiq -i oniin^wsQ. What song is it that is sung with,out a tongue, and yet its notes are un¬derstood by people of all nations?.tnrMA. It is a fart, which every oneknows the sound of.j>7w>nuii . jo cvfjOu 9111 J«nc;0fncQ. What is the reason that youngpeople are vain, giddy- headed and airy,and not so humble and obedient as thechildren of former years ?ewj sS sia doidW .QA. Because they are brought up andeducated after a more haughty strain,by reading Fables, Plays, Novels andRomances; Gospel-Books, such as thePsalm-Book, Proverbs and Catechisms,arelike old Almanacks; thereisnothingin vogue but Fiddle, Flute, Troy andBabylonish tunes ; our plain Englishspeech corrupted with beauish cants,such as don’t, won’t, nen and ken ; ajargon worse than the Yorkshire dialector the Hottentote gibberish.1*Q. Why is swearing- become so com¬mon among Scotch people ?A. Because so many lofty teacherscome from the south amongst us, whereswearing is practised in its true gram¬matical perfection! Hot oath, newstruck, with as bright a lustre as a newquaiter guinea, just come from theMint.Q. How will you know the bones ofa mason’s mare at the back of a dyke,amougst the bones of a hundred deadhorses lying in the same place ?A. Because it is made of wood.S -iorrno'l lo rmhlidoQ. Which are the two things not tobe spared, but not abused ?A. A soldiers coat and a hired horse.hnu ,?yr;'1 gnihaai ydQ. How is a man in debt like a no¬bleman ?A. Because he has many to wait onand call for him.ttttiRD f’ziuew! .djivA heJqimoo flossqaQ. How is swearing like a shabby coat Pr. <h f -d* rr:A. Because it is a bad habitQ. How is bad pen liked a wickedand profligate man ?15J. Because it wants mending,Q. Why is a church bell like a storythat is handed about ?A. Because it is often toll'd.Q. What is a man like that is inthe midst of a river and cannot swim ?A. He is like to be drowned.Q. Why is a drawn tooth like a thingthat is forgot ?A. Because it is out of one’s head.Q. How is a book like a tree ?A. Because it is full of leaves.Q. How is a good sermon like aplump pudding ?A. Because there is reasons in it.Q. How is a whorish woman likea charitable person ?A. Because she brings her husbandto a piece of bread.Q. How is a lawyer like a conten¬tious woman ?A. Because he breeds wrangling andjangling.Q. Who is the greatest fool in theworld ?O/t C/V/1 n /» »Ji vM I // » j i I y' / U f »I I) JTk • Xi.A. A whore; for she hazards souland body for a miserable livelihood.16Q Who are the two greatest thievesin Great Britain ?A. Tea and Tobacco, for they pickthe pockets of the whole nation.Q. What is the difference betweenAle-drapers and Linen-drapers ?A. Only this, the one cheats youwith froth, and the other with cloth.Q. If Extortioners cannot enter theKingdom of Heaven, where will Usur¬ers, Tallymen, and Pawn-brokers go.A. The same road with Extortioners.Q. What is the consequence of im¬moderate gaming?A. By cards and dice, a man isruin’d in a trice ; for gaming and whor¬ing often hang together.Q. What employments are likest toone-another? Sooetoq sld^Jhfido aA. Soldiers and Butchers are bloodynear relations, for the both live byslaughtering and killing. T ?Q. What are the two hardest thingsto be found, and yet they are both goodin their kind?A. Good women, & good small beer,Q. Who is the likest to a Boatman ?A. An hypocrite, who always looksone way and rows another, in all histransactions.■ *7O. What are the five greatest raritiesto be found in the world?A. A black Swan, a Phoenix, anUnicorn, the Philosophers* Stone, anda maiden at sixteen.Q. What is the greatest folly thatsensible people can be guilty of?A. To go to law about trifles, for,whatever way the plea end, the law¬yers will be the greatest gainers.Q. Who has the honestest trade inthe world >A. Ballad-singers ; for they alwaysdeal with ready-money: and it is asancientas the Siege of Troy, for H >merwas a ballad-singer.Q. What is the surest method for oneeo become both rich and respectable ?A. To be sober anil industrious.Q. What is the best method of over¬coming the argument of a positiveperson?A. Either to say with him, or givehim no answer.Q- What is the wisest course to befollowed by a man who has a brawlingand scolding wife ?A. To keep silent, and then she‘llbite her own fingers with anger.END OF THE CALICHES.18seilnm Jagtest?} gvi) &uJ gif: Irwt // A)Janet Clinker’s OrationON THE VIRTUES OF THE OLD WOMENAND THE PRIDE OF THE YOUNG.The madness of this unmuzzled agehas driven me to mountains of thoughts,and a continued meditation ;it is enoughto make an auld rin red-wood, anddrive a body beyond the halter’s end ofill nature, to see what I see, and hearwhat I hear : therefore tbe hinges ofmy anger are broke, and the bands ofmy good nature are burst in two, thedoor of civility is laid quite open, plainspeech and mild admonition is of noneeffect; nothing must be used now butthunderbolts of reproach, tartly trimmedin a tantlizing stile, roughly redd upand manufactured thro’an'auld matron’smouth, who is indeed but frail in theteeth, but will squeeze surprisingly withherauldgums until hervery chaft-bladescrack in the crushing of your vice.I shall branch out my discourse intofour heads.Firstly, What I beve seen, and beenwitness to.19Secondly, What I now seer and amwitness ta.Thirdly, What I have heard, do hear,and cannot help ; I mean the differencebetween the old women and the young.Fourthly, Conclude with an adviceto young men and young women howto avoid the buying of Janet Juniper'sstinking butter* which will have a rot-ton rift on their stomach as long asthey live.First. The first thing, then, I see andobserve, is, That a wdieen daft giddy-headed, cock-nos’d, juniper-nebbed mo¬thers, bring up a lot of sky-racket, dan¬cing daughters, a* bred up to be ladies,without so much as the breadth of theirlufe of land ! It’s an admiration to mew here the lairds are to come frae that’sto be coupled to them ! Work, na, na,my bairn must not work, she’s to be aLady ; they ca’ her Miss ; I must haveher ears bor’d, says old Mumps the mo¬ther. Thus the poor pelt’s brought uplike a motherless lamb, or a parrot ina cage ; they learn nothing put to prickand sew, and fling their feet when the* A nick-name given to the wife’s daughterthat no man will marry, because stuff d full oflaziness, self-conceited, and stinking pride; or ifshe be married, she’ll lie like stinking butter onhiastomach, while he lives-20fiddle plays ; so they became a parcel ofyellow-facM female tailors, very unequalraatchjes for countrymen; just Flanders-babies, brougnt up in a box, and mustbe carried in a basket; knows nothingbut pinching poverty, hunger & pride ;can neither milk kye, muck a byre, card,spin, nor keep a cow from a corn-rigg.The most of such are as blind penny-worths, as buying pigs in pocks, andought only to be matched with TacKet-makers, tree-trimmers, & male-tailors,that they may be male & female agree¬able in trade, since their piper-faced fin¬gers are not for hard labour ; yet theymight also pass in a pinch for a blacksutor’s wife, for the sticking of whiteseams round the mouth of ladys’ shoes jor with barbers and bakers they mightbebuckled becauseoftheir muslin mouthand pinchbeck speeches, when barm isscant they can blow up their bread withfair wind ; and when the razor is rough,can trim their chafts with a fair tale,oil their peruke with her white lips, andpowder the beau’s pow with a Frenchpuff. They are all versed in the sciencesof flattery, musical tunes, hornpipes,and country dances, though perfect innone but the reel of Gammon./SIYet these are they, the fickle farmerfixes his fancy upon; a bundle of clouts,a skeleton of bones ; Maggy and themutch, like t*va fir sticks an’ a pickletow, neither for his palate nor his pow ;very improper plenishing, neither forhis profit nor her pleasure, to plout herhands thro‘ Hawkey's caff cog, is ahateful hardship for mammy's pet, andwill hack a' her hands. All this I haveseen and hard, and been witness to,but my pen being a goose-quill, cannotexpose their names nor place of abode,but warns the working men out of theirway.Secondly. 1 see another sort, who canwork, and maun work, till they be mar¬ried, and become mistress themselves ;but when they get husbands, all theirthrift leaves them. Before that, theywrought as for a wager, they span as forapiemium,busked as fora brag, scour'dtheir din skins as a wanker does worst edblankets, kept as mim in the mouth asa minister's wife, comelv as Diana chasteas Susanna, yet the whole of their toil isthe trimming of their rigging, tho' theirhulls be everlastingly in a leaking con¬dition ; their backs and their bellies arebox'd about with the fins of a big fish,six peticoats, a gown and apron, besidesa side sark down to the ancle-bones: ah!22what monstrous rags are here ! what acloth is consumed for covering of butone pair of buttocks ! I leave it to thejudgment of any ten tailors in town, ifthirty pair of men’s breeches may notbe cut from a little above the easing ofBessy’s bum ; and this makes her a mo¬therly woman, as stately a fabric as everstrade to market or mill. But when she’smarried she turns a ma lam, her mistressdid not work much and why shouid she?Her mother ay sa'd she would be a lady,but could never tell where he lands lay ;but when money’s spent, credit broken,and conduct out of keeping, a wheenbablingbubly bairns crying piece minny,porich minny, the witless waster is ather wit’s end : work now, or want, anddo not say that the world has war’d you;but lofty noddle, your giddy-headedmother has led you astray, learning youto be a lady before you was fit to be aservant lass, by teaching you laziness in¬stead of hard labour, by giving you sucha high conceit of yourself, that no bodythinks any thing of you now"; and youmay judge yourself to be one of thosethat wise people call little-worth. But,after all, my dear dirty face, when youbegin the world a tain, be perfectly rich,before you be gentle ; work herd forwhat you gain, and vou’ll ken better23how to glide it; for pride is an imper¬fect for'.une, and a ludicrous life willnot last long1.Another sort I see, who has got moresilver than sense, more gold than goodnature, more muslins and means thangood manners, tho* a sack can hold theirsilver, six houses and a half cannot con¬tain their ambit ions desires. Fortunatus*wonderful purse would fail in fetchingin the fourth part of tlieir worldly wants,and the children imitate their mothers,chattering like hungry cranes cryingstill, I want ! I want! ever craving,wilfully wasting, till all be brought to adoleful dish of desolation, and withcleanness of teeth, a full breast, anempty belly, big pockets without pence,pinching penuary, perfect poverty,drouth, hunger, want of money andfriends both, old age, dim eyes, feeblejoints, without shoes or clothes the realfruits of a bad marriage, which bringsthoughtless fop to both faith and repen¬tance in one day.Thirdly. Another thing I see, hear andcannot help, is the breeding of bairns,and bringing them up like bill-stirks :they gie them wealth of meat but nomanners. Hut when I was a bairn, if1 did not benddo obedience, 1 ken myselwhat I got, which learn’d me what to gie24mine again ; if they had but^teil'd metutuSy or prute no, 1 laid them o‘er myknee, and l corn'd crack for crack o'ertheir hurdies, like a knock-beetle pn aharn web, till the red wats stood ontheir hips ; this brought obedience in¬to my house, and banished dods andill-nature out of the door ; I dang thedeil out o‘ them, and dadded them likea wet dish-clout, till they did my bid¬ding ; but now the bairns are broughtup to spit fire in their mither‘s face,and cast dirt at their auld daddies :how can they be good, who never sawa sample of i( ; or reverence old age,who practised no precepts in theiryouth ? How can they love their pa¬rents who gave them black poison in¬stead of good principles ; who shewedthem no good example !Sild'jbi ,<s‘jV‘jvr:;i.Ij bio ,d?od ebnoiidNow, after all, when a poor manwants a good wife, let him wale anethat has been lang servant in ae house,well liked by the bairns, and the bairns'mither; that's the lass that will makea good wile : for them that dauts theyoung bairns, will ay be k.nd to auldfouk an they had them,h tetrad r> I ttsihf jufl .gvjrr icm91Iw