Partridge and Flamflend'sNew and well experiencedFORTUNE BOOK,Delivered to the Worldfromtht AJlrologcr's Officein Greenwich Park,For the Benefit of Young Men inaidsaWives and widows.I Who by 'hawing '■ards according to the directtions ofthis ortun ook m km.wwhetheiLif wi be« on orS'ort, hethe-they ihalfI have the Perion ciefired and what part of the, World moft ptofua / e © ive in,and all Law¬ful Quel lions whadotver.The Signification of MOLES in any partof the Body, and the Interpretation ofDREAMS, as they relat< to good orBad Fortune.TO WHICH IS ADDEDThe Whimsical Lady,EDINBURGHJ. Morreny Printer, Eaft Campbell'. Clofi CwgiH>|jSCOTLAND r)i i ■ -• A;,V>.0 n7Jd iVctu we// EzptrienctdFORTUNE BOOK.YOUNG men and matds, who fain wouldinow,Your fortunes good or ill.In fhort you need no further go.Than to this book: which willInform you right in every thing,Ordained for your lotWhether Fortune will riches bringsOr whether {he will not :Whether you (hall the party have.The which you fain would wed ;Whether in law you lha!l out brave.The man you feem to dread ;Whether you will live to be old.Or die while you are young ;Whether you {hall get flUre o' gold,When Friends you corns among ;Whether you’re born to crofs theInto fome foreign land,Or live at home in queit -.uiF.With fervants at command :Whate’er is lawful to be kn eTo men or woman kind.Will in this book be plain. . ..n ,It you thexe rule* Will( 4 )DIRECTIONS, whereby the readermay be informed of the Rules in thisBook.Take a new pack of cards, fliufflethem well together, he or fire that holdsthem Ipreading them on the table withtheir faces downwards; then thofe whodraw muft Ihut their eyes, and lay th£irright hand, on their left breaft, fayingthefe words as they draw the card, ”Honifoit qui mally penfe : I hen look Uponthe number, and have recourfe to thebook, fo you fhall have lull fatisfa&ionin good or bad fortune. —-eW&OV*™* ACE of Diamonds.SINCE this ace it feems your lot,You’ll wed one that’s fierce and hot.But if woman kind draws it.She’ll have one with wealth and wit.II.Haft thou drawn the number two,Thou’lt wed one that’s juft and true,But if a woman this ftiall have,Beware of fly and cunning knave.( 5 )IIIHaving drawn the number three,Honour will thy portion be,But a maid who gets the fame,Muft take heed of wanton fliameIVThe man who gets the number four,He mull quite his native fliore.If the fame be drawn by woman,She’ll get a fweetbeart out of hand,VHe who dr?ws the number five.Where he lives he belt will thrive,But if drawn by woman kind.They better lu«k abroad will find.VIHe that draws the number fix,Will have filly cunning tricks,But if woman draw the fame,It doth (hew them free from blame.VIISince the feven doth appear,Crofies thou haft caufe to fear,Woman who the fame do draw.Fear no crofts of a ftraw.VIIIHaft thou got the number eigh^Thou wilt be a cuckold great,Females who the fame do take,For ever will the truth forfake.IX^ot the merry nine,Jr^tnou ^ -^ket line,^Guineas \viiA thy^he that draws it with her JiJDies for love or leaves the land,1 XWi hat the ten r *tis very well,Kcne in love can the excel,But the ghi who gets the ten,.Will be wed, but none knows when*.The KINGThis fair king of diamonds fhews,Thou wilt live where pleafure flows.But when a woman gets the king,,jMelancholy news flic’ll fing,The QUEEN.INow the Queen of Diamonds fair,Shews you will fome office bear,Woman, if it comes to you,Friends you’ll get and not a few.The KNAVE.Is the Knave of Diamonds come,Then beware the martial drum,If a virgin gets the knave,She will better fortune have.The ACE of Hearts.Ht who gets this ace of hearts.Will appear a man of parts,She who gets it, I profefs,Has the gift of idelnefj.IIHe who gets the dace, will befull of geuerofity.Ifot when a woman gets this card,It doth Ihew them very hard,IIIThe poor man who gets this tray,When he’s bound he muft obey.Woman who do get this fort,Will drink brandy by the quart.IVHe that gets the four will make,Faithful love for confcience fake,J3ut if drawn by a woman kind,They‘ll prove falfe and fly you’ll £nd.C 8 )VNote the five of hearts declares,Thou (halt manage great affairs,But if got by women then,They’ll love any fort of men,VINow the fix of heart* fortels.In a man her- honour dwells,If drawn by the other fide,betoken* fgorn and pride,^ VnNow the feven I’ll maintain;Shews thou haft not liv’d in vain.Thou wilt have the golden prize,But with maids it’s otherwife.VIIIHaving drawn the number eight.Shews the fervile born to wait;.'But if woman draw the fame,I hey will mount on wings of fame.X?By this nine be well a flar’d.Thy love pains muft be endur’d.Bur tne maid who gets the nine,Soon in wedlock ban ds will join.(. 9 ) "XThfft tVse ten is a lucky caflFor it fho\rs the worft is paft,But if girls the like do have.Love will their kind hearts enflare,The KING of Hearts.By this card it doth appear,Thou fhalt live in happy ckear.And if a a famale get this card.She’ll foon likewife be preferr’d.The QUEEN of Hearts.By this card it is well known,Thou wilt ftill enjoy thy own,Women if they get the fame.Will enjoy a virtous name.The KNAVE.He that gets the knave of hearts,It betokens knavifh parts.But if a woman gets the knave,She will ne’er be man’s Have.The ACE of Spades.Thou who gett’ft this ace of fpades,Shall be flouted by the maids,When it is a damfel’s lot,Love and honour {hall be got,I© )11• ' . ^ ’ e;oken.s ft rife,ioc'ifb -"lionfh wife,•V ■.:i. 'i lot ii '3'S,oar. love and dignity.TIThon art happy ir this tray,d wiii v <*d jfome lady gay,' gui- who the fame do take,ShaP wea wirh fome poor town rake*IVNow this four betokens you,Ivntft be of the horned crew,Chris who get the like will meet.With the height of joys complete.VThis five of fpades gives.you to know,That youmuft through great troubles go,But if a virgin, it fortells.Her virtue others much excels.VIThis fix foi tells when, you do wed,You’ll have a cracked maidenhead.But the girl this number draws,She’ll wed one with great applaufei( ir ) ^VIISince the feven’s come to hand,It doth intitle the to land.But girls by this fliall wed thofe,Who haye no money, friends or clothes^VIIIThis eight doth fortell you fliall,Wed a woman ftraight and tall,If to a girl the like do come,She w»ds a brother of Tom Thumb.IXBy this nine thou art fortold,Thou (halt wed one lame and old.Maids if they do get this chance,May themfelves to wealth advance.XTis feen by the ten of fpades,Thou (halt follow many trades,Thrive by none. But women they,By this chance can’t work but play.The KING of SPADES.By this King obferve and note,You on golden flreams wi 1 float,Woman by the felf-fame lot.Will long enjoy what they have got-( “ )The QUEENThere’s the queen ot fpades likewife,Thou wilt foon to riches rife,Women by this fame will have,That they both defire and crave.The KNAVE.This is a knave then have a carr,That thou dofl not make a pair.Women who the fame do chufe,Shall prove flats but thats no news.The ACE of Clubs,He who gets the ace of Clubs,Muft exped a thoufand fnubs.From wife. But girls again,By this card will rife and reign.»' IINote this duce doth fignify,That thou wilt a chriflian die,Woman who the fame do take.Never will their friends forfake,IIIYou who now this tray have drawn,Will on curfed harlots fawn.Women who do get this tray,To their ads do anfwer nay.( <3 )IVBy this four we clearly fee,Four brats muft be laid to thee,She who gets the fame will wedTwo rich hufbands, both well bred,VBy this five fee that thouShalt join unto a dirty fow.This drawn by virgins theyWill have hufbands kind and gay.VIBy this fix you’ll wed we know,One that over you will crow.Maids who get the fame will be,Bieft with hufbands kind and and freeVIIThou that hath this feven drawn,Mufl your breeches put in pawn.Girls who get the fame will wear,Jewels rich beyond compare,*VIIIBy this eight though Whig or Qjaaker,Thou wilt be a cuckold maker,Maids who draw the fame are born.To hold fools and fops in fcorn.( H )IXThat a nine ? upon my life,You fliall wed a wealthy wife,*She who gets the fame wilt have*One who is both fool and knave.XNow this number half a fcore.Shews thou wilt be wretched poor.Maids who draw this number {till,Will have jobs and wealth at will.The King of Clubs,here’s the King of clubs that fhows,Thoi haft friends as well a* foes,Maids who the fame do draw,Shall have a man without a flaw.The Queen of Clwbs.If the queen of clubs thou haft,“l hou wilt be with honour grac’d.Women if the fame they find,Will have all things to their mind,THE KNAVE.Now the vainly knave appears,He will cut off both thy ears.Women when the fame they fee,Will be what they us’d to be.( ^5 )OF THEINTERPRETATION OF DREAMS,As they relate to Gtod or Bad Fortune:©©$&©<&>To dream you are bit by a ferpent,Ihews danger by fecret and fubtle ene¬mies. To dream you fly in the air, fig-nifies a fpeedy journey That you fightand overcome, fhews you will get thebet er in law fuits To dream a lionfawns on you fhews the favour of greatperf®ns. To dream of coffins and blackfhrouds, denotes fudden death. Thatyou fee a friend dead, denotes the partyin good health. To dream you are ina field of Handing corn, denotes prof-perity and great joy. To dream of ga¬thering fmall bits of money, {hews grief;but receiving money, great advantage.To dream you are on horfeback, and heruns away with you, fhews you will becalled away on fomething contrary toyour liking. If a woman dreams flickifies another woman, it denotes bar-rennefs. To dream you are failing( )' <K|l<St• °P t^c Wiirer ^enotes a peaceable life. F0r a woman to dream a ringis put on her finger, (hews fuccefs inlove ; but if taken off the contrary. Todream of firc denotes anger ; of a fowwith pigs fmitfulnefs. To dream ofhunting a hare, and (he efcapes, fhewsIoffes. To dream of courting a lady,inews flattery; that you are forced in¬voluntarily, fhews falling from promo¬tion ; that you are at banquets and donot eat, fcarcety. If one puts a gloveon, and it remains fo, betokens mar-riage To dream you tall into a pit,denotes fudden furprife and danger. Awoman to dream (he is with child, de¬notes forrow and heavinefs. To dreamyou quench fire, denotes overcominganger, and recovery frem ficknefs. Todream you hear a voice but fee not whoutters it, fhews you will be deluded byfeigned pretenders. If you dream youare walking in a garden of flowers, andamongfi: groves and trees, fhews muchplealurc and delight to enfue from con-verfation. To dream of moons con¬tending in the firmament, fignifies di-Svifions among near friends and relationsTo dream your teeth are drawn, or tallIout denotes lofs of children, or fome re¬lations, 1 o dream of dringii g imrea-fonable (hews you will fail into fomeviolent dileafe.THEWHIMSICAL LADY,A D I A L O G E,j^ADAM, underftanding you are afingle woman, having your for¬tune in your hands, endowed with manyvirtues,, I have made bold to offer myfervice to you in. the honourable flateofmarriage,bhe It is true that I am at my owndifpofal, and have noaverfion unto wed¬lock, could I get one to my liking; butI’ll look before I leap; in brief, Sir,tell me what trade you are of,He Madam, 1 am a goldfmith, anda profitable trade it is, had 1 but a flockto carry on bufineis,She I dont queflion but yon haveimpudence enough, a principal ingredi¬ent to put off Bafe metal, and put toomuch alloy into your work, to be a man.for my money.L JHe. Madam, I faid this to try you,for really I am a clock-maker.She, Worfe again for you cheat usof our time, which is certainly the mollprecious thing in the world, A manmay waik many ftreets before he heartwo clocks {trike at once.He. Madam, I am both a painter anda poet.She. Then you are a liar and flatter¬er by trade.He. Theft you ccnuC.mn the two fia-Ht arts in the world.She. That’s falfe, poetry is a gift notan art.He But what makes you diflike paint¬ers and limners. How do they lie andflatter ?She. One inftance may fufflce. Mymother, who is as odd and ugly as oldmother Shipton, 'one of thefe rogues,the other day drew her pi&ure as fair asa Venus.He. Madam, I did but jeft all thiswhile, I am a licenfed phyfician.She. Then you poifon and murderpeople with a licence, and death and allthe attendant difcafesare you faults.He. Madam, you are a little miftaken,I am a lawyer bred.She. Then you know how fo pleadand get treafurcs on both fides.He. Madam I am a clergyman inHoly Orders.She. A devout faint in the pulpit, buta devil in the tavern,He. Madam I miftook all this tim©I am an apothecary.She. Then you know how to garnifha ihop with empty pots, and to giveureek and L.qtin %mes to dried toadsand ferpents, &c.He Madam I urn a brewer, and biewas good ale and beer as any man inEnglandShe. But tell me how much hensturd, horfe flefh, Ifinglafs, and otheringredients you adulterate thofe liquorswith.He. I am a baker, and make French-bread, the whitelt in London.She. White and light enough, I don’tdoubt; was you never in the pillory forit ? But how much alum, lime and foapdo you mix with the flour ?He. Madam, I am a taylor, and canmake men or womens clothes after thenewefl: fulhion.She, Then you are a comical mimickof foppery ; but tell me the difference, ( *0 )between a taylor and a thief; and alfbwhar cabbage yo^ have eaten andftolen inyour life time.He Madam, I quite forgot, I am aprince born vulgarly called aftioe make*.She, Never the better for that; forthough you live by your laft and yourend, you feldom think of either,He. Really madam I thought all la¬dies admired our craft, becaufe it is re*. -*1 bufinefs to make them ifne about thebed, one of the firft things a man gaz¬es at in a womanShe. No. your rotten leather, greatawls, fmall ends and iofing flitches, cre¬ate my averfion.He. Well madam, I am a bricklayer,and can build a houfe according to anymodel given me.She. Then vou are curs’d in feripturewhich fays, Woe be to them which daubwith untempered mortarHe Madam, I am a fhip carpenter ;you know ihipping is of great advantageto the nation.She. I can’t abide a trade which isthe occafkm of to many men’s deaths, Imean the failors, who have but two orthree inches between them and theirwatery graves.( 3' )He Madam, though I concealed it,l am a butcher.h'\ Then you are a bloody devil; fo* I allure you I will have nothing to dowith you.He- Madam I am a blackfmith; Toyou know; by ha-rmer and hand alltrades floiirifh and ftand.She. You are a foory devil then, \ouand the chimney fweepers ihould alwayshang together.He. Madam, now I recoiled T am aglafs b’ower; I hope you will allow thatto be a pietty art.She. Why then you are like a fala-mander you can live either in or outof me fire; fo you need not fear to go,you know where, being naturalifed to itbefore hand.He Madam I mifiook, I am a retail¬er of ftrong beer.She. You Ihould fay a beggar maker.I’ll engage you’ll not forget to make ufeof fome Marlbourgh chalk, or Icore twofor one, and froth your pot and canHe, Madam, I am a gunfmith and afword cutlerShe. You are worfe then the devil.You make inftrumentsfor people to mur¬der one another, and are unnccefiary.C 22 )He, Madam I am of the the trade thatimitatei nature mofl: in all its (hades ;and I am a dyer.She. You (hould fay a liar ; for I thinkyou’re a mean proteus, you can put onany (hape, a very cameleon !) change toany coulour, fickle as the moon, incon-ftant as the wind, I hate any thing fovariable.He. Madam I am really a water man,|nd ply at Hungerford flairs.She. I don’t like that, it puts me in-mind of a double dealer, who looks oneway and rows another ! but fince youtalk ot hunger, it puts me in mind ofa dinner, I’ll take my leave of you atprefent, and fee you again the firft op¬portunity.OFTHEInterpretation of Moles.A mole on the forehehad of a man ottwoman, denotes they fliall grow rich,vand be beloved of their friends andneighbours.A mole on the eye brows (hews theman incontinet and given to women;but if a woman, it (hews (he (hall havea good hufbandHe or (he that has a mole on thenofe, it (hew they (hall love pleafuremore than any thing elfe.A mole on the neck (hews him con¬fident in his adtions ; but a woman tohave a weak judgement, aptto believethcword of her huiband.A mole on a man’s (houlder (hewsadverfity, and threatens him with anuntimely end ; but a woman having oneon the fame place, (hews (he (hall aboundin riches.A man or woman with a mole uponthe wrift, (hews increafe of children, butafHidion in old age.Any one having a mole near unto thelieart (hewi them malicious.A mole on the belly (hews the perfonaddidted to gluttony.A mole on the knee (hews a man for¬tunate in marriage, and his wife to bevirtuous and wealthy. A woman hav¬ing one on the fame place, (hews hefhappy and fruitful in children.A mole on the ancle of a man (hewshim effeminate and to adt the part o£( J4 )• woman, Uke, Sardanaplus at the fpin-ning wheel.A wo-iian having the like, fhe flialllord over her hulband.A mole on the foot (hews a man for¬tunate in getting riches; if a woman,has the lame, it betokens her the famehappinefi.A SONG.T^ESPISE not moles in any cafe,For moles do lignify,To every man as they are plac’d.How each man’s fortune lie.Mark well the moles in your body.Compare them by this book,You‘11 find them true, or I’m a noddy,If you with care do look.So lines in hand in every fpace,And moles the body too,Dreams alfo tell what is to come,By which all men may know.What may be their, molt certain doom,Here in the world below.FINIS,