. %T II K LIFEand unparalleled'5f\VOYAGES AND ADVENTERESMBROSE GWINNETI Collins—his surprising Recovery—Ins \ 0) ag( oIndies, and being token by the Spaniards among tv boi! a _; met with the supposed murdered Air Collins am pr-'ti to return to England together-his bemg tak«m ^ _j Algerines and carried into slavery, and, alter man}i ships, his return to England.WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.GLASGOW:PRINTED TOR m BOOKSELLER...OF SCO^A^ J/SjEpiNBUF^^'" .\THIS•-’■•I’ < ; .'••iLIFE AND ADVENTURESOF.AMBROSE GWINNETT-I was bom of reputable parents in the city of Can¬terbury, where my father dealt in hops. He hadbut two children, a daughter and myself; and hav-i ing given me a good education, at the age of sixteen) he bound me an apprentice to Mr George Roberts,( an attorney in the same town, with whom I stayedi nearly five years, to his great content and my owni satisfaction.My sister, being come to woman’s estate, had now1 been married something more than twelve months1 to one Sawyer, a seafaring man, who had got consi-ii derable prizes ; and my father giving him L.200 withI my sister, he quitted his profession, and set up a[ public-house within three miles of the place of hist nativity, which was Deal, in the county of Kent.I had frequent invitations to pass a short time with| them ; and, in the autumn of the year 1710, having' obtained my master’s consent for that purpose, I leftthe city of Canterbury on foot on a Wednesdaymorning, being the 17th day of September; but,through some unavoidable delay on the road, theevening was considerably advanced before I reachedDeal; and I was so tired, being unaccustomed to thatway of travelling, that, had my life depended uponit, I could not have got so far as my sister’s that night.At this time, there were many of her Majesty Queen4ADVENTURES OEAnne’s ships lying in the harbour, the English beingthen at war with the French and Spaniards; besideswhich, I found this was the day for holding the half- •yearly fair, so that the town was filled to such adegree, that a bed was not to be had for love or money.I went seeking a lodging from house to house to nopurpose, till, being quite spent, I returned to thepublic-house where I had first made inquiry, desir¬ing leave to sit by, their kitchen-fire, to rest myselfuntil morning.The publican and his wife where I put up happened,unfortunately for me, to be acquainted with mybrother and sister; and finding, by my discourse, thatI was a relation of theirs, and going to visit them,the landlady presently said she would endeavour toget me' a bed, and, going out of the kitchen, sheshortly after called me into a parlour that led fromit. Here I saw, sitting by the fireside, a middle-agedman, in a night-gown and cap, reckoning money ata table. “ Uncle," said the woman, as soon as Ientered, “ this is a brother of our friend, Mrs Sawyer;he cannot get a bed anywhere, and is tired after his j|ijourney; you are the only one that lies in this housealone, will you give him a part of yours To thisthe man answered, that she knew he had been outof order, that he was bled that day, consequently, abedfellow could not be very agreeable. However,said he, rather than the 3’oung man should sit up,he is welcome to sleep with me. After this, we sata while together ; when, having put his money, in acanvass bag, into the pocket of his night-gown, hetook the candle, and I followed him to bed.How long I slept I cannot exactly determine, but Iconjectured it was about three o’clock in the morning,when I awakened with the colic, attended with themost violent gripes. I attributed this to some baconand cabbage I had eaten the former day for dinner,after which I had drunk a large draught of milk.I found my chum awake as well as myself. He askedAMBROSE GWINNETT. &s its nij7r uov ‘.tldooi*. Uiw 7^„.uat was the matter. I mformed luinland arisatae time begged he would direct me to theissary. He told me that, when down staii>.L turn to my right: band, and go.stravlea, at the end of which it was, just^over thek; but, added Wyou .may f0^liM..lu4s<.,niAculty in opening the door, the string heu g m2I1 pulls up the latch ; I wih give you,f Pe^uiTei which you iuay opeu it, through,yWJ t} J rB■da.- So saying, he pjtf his hand into his want-pocket, which lay over Jiif*. ou tllt' LL'd’ :i .; me a middling-sized pep kind:,hurried on a few of my clothes, and went do nrs ; hut I must observe that, unelaspntg thy ^m •fe to open the door of the necessary, U( COH Mo V.’direction, a piece of money, which had stu. k , -^en the blade ;md the grout e in the nuii c, ..my hand. 1 did not ftwnintj9').h.41 it V a > im,,eed, could I well see, thej;e Jjeuig^hen huU vtrieetl, COUia 1 wen see, nic»,v , ,1 r*Jit moonlight, so I put them very carelessly togethermy pockety.]? liivr .mid Ip smoaad aiui IndwAtUni apprehend I stayed in tire gar ep.about halt anir, for I was extremely ill, and, by overlieatingself with walking the preceding day, brought on: pries, a disorder; I was subject to from my youth,ese seem trifling ciicmipUftce^ but they atter-rds turned out of infinite importance to me. . henreturned to my chamber,. 1 was surprrsed to findr bedfellow gone. 1 called several tunes but notIfiving any answer, 1 took it for granted diat^. e,1 enmp. jiaiomim? closet ipr1 asleep. , -me , n-bioji? blupw erfAbout six o’clock I arose, nobody being yef.up n.e house. The gentleman was not.yet returiitd fcd, or if he was, had again Jett it. I then di.e.->yself with what haste i eouhl, being nnpmm-e my sjster ; and the meaning being pant over¬gilt, I let myself out at the street-door.ti ADVENTURES OPI will not trouble you with an account oftkindness with which my sister and her husban<rtceived me. We breakfasted together; and I be*it might be about eleven o’clock in the forenlwhen, standing at the door, my brother-in-law Wat my side, we saw three horsemen galloping towus. As soon as they came up, they stopped, ,one of them alighting, suddenly seized my cdcrying, “ You are the Queen’s prisoner.” I desto know my crime ; he said I should know' thasoon as I came to Deal, where I must go imm rately with them. One of them told my brother 1the night before I had committed a robbery ammurder.Judge, O reader, of my painful situation.are aware of my innocence; but how was 1 to prthis satisfactorily to the minds of those who hadrested me, and to those who were to be my judgCircumstances were completely against me. Wofthey believe my story of having received the kitfrom my bedfellow ? If I swear I am totally ig;rant what has become of him, will they believe nThese, and a thousand other things, rushed into ■ tmind at the moment of my apprehension. But w&was to be done in this emergency? they wouldsatisfied with nothing but my person ; and to ofsecurity for my appearance at trial, even if I couhave procured friends to become surety for my jdoing,—the sum, if sum they would have taken,I was charged with murder, would have been -great, that even here I would have failed. The)was no course left, therefore, but to commit mys<into the hands of an all-seeing Providence, trusti)he would so order the course of his events as wornclearly shew my innocence.Resistance, therefore, would have proved as vain;my tears and protestations of my innocence. Inword, a warrant was produced, and I was carried bac:to Deal by the three men; my brother, with anothvAMBROSE GWINNETT. 7friend, accompanying me, who knew not what tosay, or how to comfort me.Being arrived in town, I was instantly hurried tothe house where I had slept the preceding night,the master of which was one of the'three men whocame to apprehend me, though, in my first hurry,I did not recollect him. We were met at the doorby a crowd of people, every one crying, “ Which ishe ?" “ which is he ?” As soon as I entered, I wasaccosted by the publican’s wife in tears, “ O cursedwretch, what hast thou done ? thou hast murderedand robbed my poor dear uncle, and all through me,who put thee to lie with him. But where hast thouhid his money ? and what hast thou done with hisbody ? Thou shalt be hanged on a gallows as highas a Maypole.” •< AMy brother begged of her to be pacified, and Iwas taken into a private room. They then beganto question me, as the woman had done, as to whereI had put the money, and how I had disposed of thebody- I asked them what money, and whose bodythey meant ? They then said I had killed the personI had slept with the preceding night, for the sakeof a large sum of money I had seen him with. Ifell down on my knees, calling on God to witnessthat I knew nothing about what they accused me of.Then somebody cried, “ Carry him up stairsand Iwas taken to the chamber where I had slept. Herethe man of the house went to the bed, and, turningdown the clothes, shewed the sheets, pillows, andbolster dyed in blood. He asked me if I knewanything of that ? I declared to God I did not. Saida person that was in the room, “ Young man, some¬thing very odd must have happened here last night,for, lying in the next chamber, I heard groanings,and goings up and down stairs more than once ortwice.” I told them the circumstance of my illness,and that I had been up and down myself, with allthat passed between my bedfellow and me. Some-8 ADVENTURES OPbody proposed to search me; several began to turnmy pockets inside out, and from my waistcoat tum¬bled the penknife and the piece of money I havealready mentioned. n; . r ■ ■,Upon seeing these, the woman immediately scream¬ed out, “O mercy! thete is my uncle’s penknife." |Then thking up the mioney, and calling'tbe peopleabmit her, “here,” said she, “is >yhat puts the vil¬lain’s guilt beyond a doUbt: I can swear to thigWilliam and: Mary's guinea; my uncle has long hadit by way of a pocket-piece, aiid engraved the firstletters of his name upon it." Sho then began tocry again,) while I could do nothing but continue tocry to heaven to witness that I was as innocent asthe child unborn. After this they took me downto the necessary, and here fresh proofs appearedagainst me. -The constable, who had never left me,perceiving blood upon the edge of the seat, (which |probably might proceed from my being troubled withthe hemorrhage the night before,) “ here,” said she,“ after having cut his throat, he has let down thebody into the sea.” To this every body immediatelyassented. “ Then,” said the master of the house,‘‘it is in vain to look for the body any further; forthere was a springrtide last night, which has carried 1it •off.” ' v. odThe consequence of these proceedings was an im¬mediate examination before a Justice of the Peace;after which I suffered a long and rigorous imprison¬ment' in the county-town, Maidstone. For sometime, my father^ master, and relations were inclinedto think me innocent; and,-in compliance with myearnest request, an advertisement was published inthp London Gazette, representing my deplorablecircumstances, and offering a reward to any personwho could give tidings of Mr Richard Collins, (thename of the man I was supposed to have murdered,)either alive or dead. No information, however, of»ny kind came to hand. At the assizes, therefore,AMBROSE GWINNETT. 9I was brought to trial, and circumstance^ appearingstrongly against me, I received sentence to be cannedin a cart, the Wednesday fortnight following, to thetown of Deal, and there to be hanged before theInnkeeper’s door where I had cdmn^itted the murder,after which I was to be hung in chains within alittle of my brother's house. JNothing could have supported me under thisdreadful condemnation but consciousness of my notbeing guilty of the crime for which 1 was to suffer.My friends now began to consider my declaratiBhsof innocence as persisting in falsehood to the^erditionof my soul. Many of them discontinued'their in¬quiries after me; and those few who still came f&visit me only came to urge me to a confession; but1 was resolved that I would never die with a lie oxthat kind in my nmutk.The Monday before the fatal day now arrived,when an end was to be put to my miseries. I wascalled down into the court of the prison; .but I con¬fess I was not a little shocked when I found it wasto be measured for the irons m which I was to hehanged after execution. A fellow-prisoner appearedbefore me in the same woful plight, (he had robbedthe mail;) and the smith was measuring him whenI came down, while the gaoler, with as much calm¬ness as if he had been ordering a pair of stays tohis daughter, was giving directions in what mannerthe irons should be made, so as to support the n^an,who was remarkably heavy and corpulent.Between this and the day of my execution, I spentmy time alone in meditation and prayer. At length,Wednesday morning came, and about six o'clock Iwas’put into the cart; but sure such a day of wind,rain, and thunder, never blew out of the heavens;it pursued us all the way; and when we arrived atDeal, it became so violent, that the sheriff arid hisofficers, who had not a dry thread about them, couldscarcely sit on their horses. For my own part, my/10 At)VENTURES OFmind, Ciod help me! was, with long agitation, be¬come so unfeeling, that I was in a manner insensibleto every object about me ; but I heard, without theleast emotion, the sheriff whisper to the executionerto make what dispatch he could, aud I sufferedhim to tuck me up like a log of wood, being uncon¬scious of what he was doing.I can give no account of what I felt while I washanging, only that I remembered, after being turnedoff, something for a little appeared about me like ablaze of fire; nor do I know how long I hung. Nodoubt, the violence of the weather favoured megreatly in that circumstance. What I am now go¬ing to tell you, I learned from my brother; whichwas, that, after having hung for about half an hour,the sherifTs officers all went off, and I was cut downby the executioner; but when he came to put theirons upon me, it was found a mistake had beenmade, and that the irons of the other man, whichwere much too large for me, had been sent insteadof mine. This they remedied as well as they couldby stuffing rags between my body and the hoopsthat surrounded it; after which I was taken, accord¬ing to my sentence, to the place appointed, and hungon a gibbet, which was ready prepared.The cloth over my face was but slightly tied, andsuffering no pressure from the irons, which stood agreat way from it, was, I suppose, soon detached bytin1 wind, which was then rather violent; and pro¬bably its blowing upon my bare face expedited myrecovery; certain it is, that in this awful and tre¬mendous situation I came to myself.It was no doubt a very great blessing that I didnot immediately return so perfectly to my senses asto have a feeling of things about me ; yet I had asort of recollection of what had happened, and insome measure was sensible where I was.The gibbet was placed in a corner of a small com¬mon field where my sister’s cows usually went; andAMBROSE GWINNETT. 11t pleased God, that, about this time, a lad, who tooklare of them, came to drive them home for eveninglailking. The creatures, which were feeding almost;nder me, brought him near the gibbet, when, stop-ning to look at the melancholy spectacle, he per-eived that the cloth was from off my face, and, inhe very moment he looked up, saw me open my-yes and move my under jaw. He immediately ran'ome to inform the people at his master’s. At first,hey had some difficulty in believing his story ; butt length my brother came out, and, by the time henrived at the field, I was so far recovered that myuroans were very audible.i It was now dusk. The first thing they ran fori/as a ladder. One of my brother’s men mounted,: nd, putting his hand to my stomach, felt my heartneat very strongly. But it was found impossible to;:etach me from the gibbet without cutting it down,nt saw, therefore, was got for that purpose, and, with-.lut giving you a detail of trifling circumstances, inpjss than half an hour, having freed me from myirons, they got me bled, and put me into a warm>ed in my brother’s house.It is an amazing thing, that, though upwards oflight persons were acquainted with this transaction,nd I remained three days in the place after it hap-uened, not a creature divulged the secret. Early> ext morning, it was known that the gibbet was cut'< own, and it immediately occurred to every bodyimat it was done by my relations, in order to put alieil over their own shame, by burning the body.>dut, when my brother was summoned to the mayor’sr Ouse in order to be questioned, and he denied know-;ig anything of the matter, little more stir was made'bout it; partly because he was greatly respected byU the neighbouring gentlemen, and, in some mea-isre, perhaps, because it was known that I continued; j persist strongly in my being innocent of the crime■nr which I suffered112ADVENTURES OFThus, then, was I most miraculous! v deliversfrom an ignominious death, if I may call my coring to life a delivery after all I had endured. Bhow was I tb dispose of my life Dow that I hiregained it ? To stay* in England was impossiblewithout exposing myself to the terrors of the la1In this dilemma, a fortunate cireumstance occuThere had been, for some time, at rhy brother's houone or two of the principal officers of a pfivatee:that was preparing to cruise, just then ready to safUttH the cap tala kindly offered to take me on boarwith him.: Yon may guess that little ce'remorty vnmade on our side to accept Of such a proposal; anproper necessaries being quickly provided for mmy sister recommended me to the protectionGod and the worthy commander, who most h'maacly received me as sort of under-assistant to hr•tesWirieqi-ii hunol ?r,7^ if DWe had been six months out upon our cruisehaving had but very indifferent success, when, beimon the coast of Florida, then in the hands of thiSpaniards,'we unfortunately fell in with a squadro >of their men-of-war, and, consequently, being take;1without striking a blow, we were dll carried prisonsera into the harbour of Havarina. I was really nowalmost weary of my life,’ and should have been ver;■glad to have ended it in the loathsome dungeonwhere, with forty others of my unfortunate countrymen, the enemy had stowed me; but after thre-years'close confinement, we were let out, in ordetor be put on board transports, and conveyed t<Pennsylvania, and from thence to England. Thisas you'may believep Was a disagreeable sentence fime, taking it for granted that a return home would■he a return to the gallowd.Y> Being now, therefore, a tolerable master of theSpanish language, I Solicited very strongly to be lef :behind ; which fivoulf I obtained by means of themaster of the prison, with whom, during my confine 'AMBROSE GWINNETT. 13ment, I bad contracted a sort of intimacy, and henot only took me into his house as soon as my coun¬trymen were gone, but, in a short time, he procuredme a salary from the governor for being his deputy.Indeed, at this particular time, the office, was byno means agreeable. The coast had long been in¬fested with pirates, the most desperate gang ofvillains that can he imagined, and there was scarcelya month passed that one or other of their vessels didnot fall into the governor’s hands, and the crew asconstantly put under my care. Once I very narrrowly escaped being knocked on the head by one ofthe ruffians, and having the keys wrested from me,;at another time I was shot at. It is true, in bothcases, the persons suffered for their attempt, and inthe last case a little too cruelly, for the fellow wholet off the carbine was not only put to the torture toconfess hjs accomplices, hut afterwards broken uponthe wheel, where he was left to expire, the mostshocking spectacle I ever beheld.I had been in my office about three months, whena ship arrived from Port-Royal, another Spanishsettlement on the coast, with nine English prisonerson board. I was standing in the street as they werecoming up from the port with a guard of soldiers tothe governor’s house. On looking in the face of oneof the prisoners, it immediately occurred to me thatI had formerly been acquainted with him. I couldnot then stop them to speak together; but, in ahhour after, they wrere all brought down to the prison,there to be lodged till the governor had signified hisfurther pleasure.As soon as the poor creatures found that I wasan Englishman, they were extremely happy, even intheir distressing situation ; though, indeed, theywere treated with lenity enough, and were nidy sentto the prison until a suitable lodging could he pro¬vided for them, they having been, in the course ofthe war, made prisoners by the Spaniards as well as14 ADVENTURES OPmyself, and Were then on their return home. I had,therefore, now an opportunity of taking notice of theman whose face I thought I knew, and I was moreand more convinced that I was not mistaken ; in aword, I verily thought this man was the person forwhose supposed murder I had suffered so much inEngland, and the thought was so strong in my head,that I could not sleep a wink all night.On the morning after their arrival, I told themthat if any of them wished to walk about and seethe town, I could procure them permission, and goalong with them. This man said he would go, andthis was what I wished. Three other prisoners,who went out along with us, walked a little in ad¬vance. I now took the opportunity, and lookingin his face, “ Sir,” said I, “ were you ever at Deal ?”I believe he, at that instant, had some recollection ofme, for, putting his hand upon my shoulder, tearsburst into his eyes. “ If you have,” said I, “ andyou be the man I take you for, you here see beforeyou one of the most unfortunate of human kind.Sir, is your name Collins ?” He answered it was.M Richard Collins?” said I. He replied, yes. “ Then,”said I, “ I was hanged and gibbeted on your accountin England.”After our mutual surprise was over, he made megive him a circumstantial detail of everything thathappened to me in England from the moment weparted. I never saw any man express such concernas he did while I was pursuing my melancholy ad¬ventures ; but when I came to the circumstance ofmy being hanged, and afterwards hung in chains, Icould hardly prevail on hjm to believe my relationtill backed by the most serious asseverations, pro¬nounced in the most solemn manner. When I haddone, “ Well, said he, “ young man, (for I was thenbut in my five-and-twentieth year; Mr Collins mightbe about three-and-forty,) if you have sustained anymisfortunes upon my account, do not imagine, thoughAMBROSE GWINNETT. 15I cannot lay them at your door, that I hav6 beenwithout my sufferings. God knows my heart, I amexceedingly sorry for the injustice that has been doneyou ; but the ways of Providence are unsearchable.”He then proceeded to inform me by what accidentall my troubles had been brought about.“ When you left me in bed," said he, “ having atfirst awakened with an impression I could not ac¬count for, I found myself growing exceedingly sickand feeble. I did not know what was the matter;I groaned and sighed, and thought myself going todie, when, accidentally putting my hand to my leftarm, in which I had been bled the morning before,I found my shirt wet, and, in short, that the bandagehad slipped, and the orifice being again opened, thata great flux of blood had ensued. This immediatelyaccounted for the condition in which I found myself.I thought, however, that I would not disturb thefamily, who, I knew, had all gone to bed very late;I therefore mustered all my strength, and got upwith my night-gown loose about me, for the purposeof going to a neighbouring haircutter, in order tohave the blood stopped, and the bandage replaced.He lived directly opposite our house; but, when Iwas crossing the way to knock at his door, a bandof men, armed with cutlasses and hangers, camedown the town, and, seizing me, hurried me towardthe beach. I begged and prayed, but they soonsilenced my cries. At first, 1 took them for a press-gang, though I afterwards found they were a gang ofruffians belonging to a privateer, aboard of whichthey immediately took me; however, before I gotthere, the loss of blood caused me to faint away.The surgeon of the ship, I suppose, tied my arm;for, when my senses returned, I found myself in ahammock, with somebody feeling my pulse; the ves¬sel was then under weigh.I asked where I was. They said I was safe enough.I immediately called for my night-gown; it was10 aDTEKTUBE? Ofbrought me; but of a considerate sum of morteythat was in the pocket of it I could get no account.I complained to tire captain of the violence that hadbeen done me, and the robbery his men had com¬mitted ; but, being a brutish feilow, he laughed atmy grief, and told me, if I Imd lost anything I should§oou have pfize-money enough to make' amends. Ina word, not being able to help myself, I was obligedto submit; and, for three months, they forced me towork before the mast. In the end, however, we met,tjie same fate that you did. We were taken by theSpaniards, apd, by adventures panvUelwith your own,you now see me .here on my return to my nativecountry, whither, if you will accompany me, I shallthink myself extremely happy,dhere Was nothing now to prevent my returningto England ; and a ship being to»set sail in eight orden days, Mr Collins and I determined to embark init. As soon ag we returned home, I went to mymaster and told, him my resolution ; he did not dis-.suade me from ft, chiefly, I suppose, because it gave,hini an opportunity of getting the little office I heldfor a nephew of his, who was lately come to livewith him, to whom the same day I delivered thetrust. 4md here the providence of God was no lessremarkable tp me than in other particulars of mylife ; for, the same night, eight or ten pirates, whowere in the prison, watched the occasion, while theyoung man was locking up the wards, to. seize him,taking the keys from him after having left him fordead ; and, before the alarm was sufficiently given,five of them made their escape, haying, .as yyas sup¬posed, got off the coast by means of the piraticalbpats, which were kept constantly hovering about.It was on the 18th of November 1712, that, hav¬ing made all my little preparations, I sent my trunkaboard the Nostra Senora, a merchant-ship, boundfor Cadiz; Michael D.eronzn, master. The vesselwas to set sail that evening, and lie in the roads,AMBROSE GWINNETT. 17'd’o&ut three miles from the town. About seven'o'clock in the evening, being then sitting with SignolijGasper, my old friend and master, in the portico 01178(house, a lad came up, and said that a boat had beeni waiting half ah hour for me at the port, and that hjy^companion, Mr Collins, was already dri board. I rahinto the Louse for my small bundle, and only stayedjfco take leave of due or two of the family. I madewhathaste I could to the quay ; but, when I arrived,1 I found the boat had put o^T, leaving word 'that"Jj should overtake them at a little bay about a milI beyond the town. The dusk was coming on. I ranI along the shore, and, as I imagined, soon had sighttjof the boat, to which I hallooed as loud as i wasliable; they answered, and immediately put about'tbStake me in. lint we bad scarcely got fifty yards|from land, when, on looking about for my friend, MrijCollins, I missed him; and then it was I found Ii had made a mistake, and, instead of getting on boardmy own boat, which was now a considerable wayi a-liead, I got intu a boat belonging to some of thej pirates. I attempted to leap overboard, and couldj qasjly have swam ashore, but was prevented by onbj of the crew, who gave me a stroke on the head,which immediately laid me senseless; and I foundI afterwards that they mistook me for one of their ownpen, who had been purchasing goods in the town.A more infernal crew than’ these pirates neVerbreathed upon the face of thp earth. Their whofelives was a scene of rapine and murder, which, if theyhad no opportunity of oommitting upon the wretchesthat fell into their clutches during their piratical pur¬suits, they committed oh one another. Ifuririg thetime I remained with them, nearly four years, therewere no less than eleven assassinations amongst them¬selves. There was an uninhabited island in the GulfofMexico which those villains called Swallow Islam},from the great number-pf those birds which harbourupon it. Here they had a fortification; and the placeADVENTURES OPbeing rendered almost inaccessible by rocks, except |at one little inlet, just large enough to admit a single1vessel, they defied the Spanish power.The captain was one Bryan Walsh, an Irishmaniwhom I cannot help calling a most execrable andilbloody villain, though the Almighty put it into hist!heart to be a very good friend to me. When I wasnbrought into the ship, and immediately after into the»captain’s cabin, the first person that accosted me wasione of the fellows that broke out of the prison, andihad formerly been under my care. He knew me di-frectly; and, without more ado, drawing out his dag- •ger, aimed a stroke at me, which, falling on my neck,,entered deep into the flesh, and must infallibly have:put an end to my life had not the captain prevented fit by raising his cane between him and me, and broke fthe force of the blow. From that moment, he seemed !to take me under his protection. At his own request, [I gave him a history of my own life, which asto- [nished him greatly; but notwithstanding I pleaded !hard to go on shore again, he absolutely refused; and,in spite of all my entreaties, brought me to the island .and fortification I have already mentioned, where,finding I could read and write, two qualifications hewanted himself, he thought I might be of use to him. .I have already £aid that with these people I re¬mained nearly four years; on land, I acted as store¬keeper, and, at sea, as a sort of purser to the ship. Imay observe, that there was always a sufficient num¬ber of hands left on the island to man the fort, whichwas so situated as effectually to prevent the approachof the enemy. Indeed, the office of storekeeper wasa place of great trust. You would hardly credit mewere I to attempt to tell you of the immense richesthese robbers had amassed together. One articlealone will be sufficient to give you an idea of it. Un¬der one shed, I counted three thousand eight hundredbales of English goods; and I may safely declare,tjiat in other merchandise, of almost every kind, theyAMBROSE GWINNETT.iOfell nothing behind'; and, on an average, there couldnot he less in their coffers than two hundred thousandpounds sterling in specie, besides an immense quan¬tity of gold and silver in bars.The continual terror that was upon my mind whileI remained with these people, is not to be imagined;but to give you a detail of the manner of my lifewhile I endured the worst of bondage, would betedious, because it had no variety; and shocking,to boot, as I was forced to join in all their horridschemes. I shall only tell you that, in one of ourcruises, we met with a Jamaica ship, and hoistedour black colours. Having boarded her, because shemade some resistance, and killed one of our men, thecaptain ordered that the whole crew should be mas¬sacred. The wicked command was executed uponthe master, five seamen, and a boy ; then, taking thecargo out, which proved to be rum and sugar, wescuttled the ship, and returned to our fortification.But see how the avenger of wicked deeds makes thefruit of our crimes our punishment! This cargo ofrum, which was of a kind not man}' degrees short ofaquafortis, was drunk by the men with such avidity,that, in little more than three days, out of our com¬plement of eighteen men, seven absolutely lost theirlives by it, among whom wras the captain.I cannot but confess that I had some attachmentto this man, because he appeared particularly at¬tached to me ; when, therefore, I saw him lyingsenseless on the floor, overgorged with that infernalliquor, I did everything I could to recover him, andso far succeeded as to bring him to his senses; butthe quantity he had drunk inflamed his bowels to adegree not to be assuaged by any lenitives that werein my power to procure for him. He was seizedwith intermitting convulsions, that carried him offthe next day ; but, about four hours before he died,he called me, in the presence of all the men whostood about him in the cabin, and desired me to sit•nidao oiil o.*/ii Jnu aw ;th20ADVENTURES OPdown with pen and ink to draw out his will. Heleft me sole h6ir to his share of the booty, signingthe paper with his mark; which paper, through aseries' of unheard-of misfortunes, I have preservedin my custody ever since.We buried the captain next day; and, on inspec¬tion, ahd dividing the treasure, I found myself worthcoiisideiably more than forty thousand pounds ster¬ling. V The persons how remaining in our company,P'ete ‘Jose'ph Wright, Andrew Van Hooten, a Dutch¬man, JarheS Winter, and myself, the four principals jbesides fohr common men, to whom we assigned fivethousand, pounds each, which we gave to them indbllars ; *nor did I observe any discontent amongtheta on accouht of the bequest the captain had mademe. • .•AH my thoughts were immediately bent on gettingoff the islan'd to some of the-English settlements. Iplainly perpe.fVed that my companions again wantedto be at thcfr old practice; but, one day, talking ofanother cruise, I represented to thenr the danger anduncomfortable situation we were in, and that we hadehch a very ample fortune to support us in any partof the world,—it was my advice, therefore, that weshould immediately put all our treasure on board,with as much of the merchandise as we could con¬veniently carry, and make the best of our way toJamaica, where there was no doubt but we shouldbe w-ell received.They agreed to this proposal with more alacritythan I 'thought they would. We fell immediatelyto' work, and, in two days, were prepared to sail.But, though we put a considerable quantity of balesoh'board, what remained still in the warehouse wasiptoViTshing. I warned the fellows of their rapacity,ifir'd the danger of too heavily lading the ship; butthey would not give over till she could hold no more;and then the treasure packed in chests, each man’sshare separate to himself, we put into the cabin.AMBROffli GWITJEETT. 2T"We weigliod ahe’iox on the 3d of August, and forI: three days uad excellent weather; hut, on the fourth,l| a storm began to tln’eaten, and the symptoms stillt| increasing, hy jnidnight such a hurricane was raised| between heaven and earth as I never was witness to.11 About three o’clock, we were obliged to heave the ship1 under her bare poles, and the sea ran so exceedinglyIj high, that we could not venture to keep any lightsi; aboard, though the night was so dark that we couldjj scarcely see one another at a quarter of a yard’s dis-tance; the wind still increasing, the main-mastsprang about six feet from the deck, so that nothing! could save it. We now began to feel the consequencej of lading the vessel too deeply. The first thing wethrew overboard were our guns ; and, as our case be-j came more and more desperate, everything followed! them, not excepting the chests of treasure. ThusI was once more reduced to my original state of po¬verty. As daylight appeared, the storm abated. Wethen, as well as we were able, erected jury-masts,and, in about three hours, managed with the greatestI difficulty to get the vessel under sail.I was then standing by the man at the wheel,leaning against the mizen-mast, returning Godthanks in my own mind for our amazing escape,when the boatswain came up to me, and said, egad,Mr Gwinnett, you have brought us into a pretty holehere ; if it had not been for you, we should not havetaken this trip, and lost the substance we have beenworking for so many years, but you loop too, I as¬sure you. I asked him what he meant ? He saidhe would soon let me see ; upon which he and twoor three others came behind mo, seized me by thenape of the neck and the waistband of the breeches,an.d forced me over the rails of the quarterdeck intothe sea.The shock of the fall, and the maze I was in fromsuch unexpected treatment, almost bereaved me ofmy senses. I endeavoured, however, to keep myselfV22 ADVENTURES OEabove the water as well as I could, though I had nohopes of saving my life. My first attempt was toswim after the ship; but, finding that impracticable, Iturned about, and I believe I had swam for three-quarters of an hour, when, being very faint and weak,I began to put up my last prayer to God, and deter¬mined to commit mj'self to the bottom of the deep ;but, at that instant, turning my head a little aside, Isaw, at a small distance from me, what at first I tookfora barrel; but what was my joy and astonishment,when, coming near, I perceived it to be one of our ownboats, which had been washed overboard the nightbefore, and, to complete my joy, the oars were lashedto the seat! Almost spent, as I was, I made shift toget upon it; and here I saw myself freed in a mira¬culous manner from the fury of the waves ; but, atthe same time, I found myself in an open boat, atleast sixty leagues from land, without a compass, orany kind of nourishment whatever, unless I mightcall tobacco some, which I found in a box in one ofmy waistcoat pockets; and I believe in my con¬science that it afforded me a nourishment which, ina great measure, helped to preserve me.It was a very great blessing for me that moderateweather followed the tempest, by which means I wasenabled to keep the boat tolerably steady. I couldnot be less than thirty hours in that situation, whenI was taken by a Spanish carrick ; but I can hardlyreckon that among my fortunate accidents ; for, onthe same day that I entered the ship, one of the men,while I was asleep, hanging up my clothes among theshrouds to dry, emptied my pockets, and finding se¬veral papers relative to the pirates’ affairs, on arriv¬ing at Port-Royal, whither they were bound, theyseized me as one of the desperate gang.I must observe to you, that, when I first went intothe ship, I gave a false account of myself, which oc¬casioned my ruin ; for, now confessing the truth, andtelling them that I had been forced into the pirates’Ambrose gwixnett.23service, with all that had happened to me among,them, my prevarication made them suspect my vera¬city, and I was two years in prison; when, by whatmeans I know not, some of the wretches with whomI left our island having been taken as pirates uponthe Spanish coast of Europe, an order came to bringme over to Cadiz, in Old Spain, in order to be evi¬dence. When I came there, I was detained formany months; but at length, w hen the pirates werebrought up for trial, instead of being summoned forevidence, I found myself treated as a delinquent,and, with two others, condemned to the galleys forlife.I wmrked on board of them for several years,when a galley I belonged to was ordered to seaagainst an Algerine rover that infested the coast;but, instead of one, met with three of them. Theissue of an engagement was fatal to us. The greaterpart of the crew were killed, and the rest taken pri¬soners, among which last I was one, having lost myleg in the action.After this, I passed a long and painful slavery inAlgiers, till, with many other English captives, Iwas teleased, by agreement between the Dey ofAlgiers and his Britannic Majesty’s agent. In theyear 1730, I returned to England. The first thingI did was to inquire after my relations, but all thosenearest to me were dead ; and I found that MrCollins had never returned home; so I suppose hedied on his passage. Though not an old man, I wasso enfeebled by hardships that I was unable towork; and being without any manner of support,I could think of no way of getting my living but bysweeping the crossing between the Mews-gate andSpring Gardens, Charing-Cross, London ; and ulti¬mately, being even unable for this employment, Idepended on the generosity of a feeling and benevo¬lent public.The history of Ambrose Gwinnett is one which24 ADVENTURES OF AMBROSE GWINNETT.certainly should prove a very serious warning to bothjudges and juries when called on to administer thelaw in similar cases. Better far to allow fifty guiltyindividuals to escape, than permit one innocent per*son to suffer. And this is not a solitary case whereevidence as clear—but yet as false—has been broughtagainst the culprit; and the truth of his innocencehas been discovered when it was impossible to re¬pair the injury. Though obliged to quit his nativeland for dread of again being apprehended, it musthave solaced Gwinnett’s mind when he reflectedthat he was innocent of the crime for which he hadto fly. How different would his feelings have beenhad he been guilt)7 of the foul deed ! every tempestthat blew, every difficulty he encountered, everyhardship he experienced,—and these were not few,—would have kindled within his breast conscience’sting, and would have made him cry out, like oneof old,—“ My burden is heavier than I can bear.Oh! whither shall I flee to be freed from this per¬petual tormentor !” Such, reader, is the differencebetween the feelings of the innocent and the guiltyindividual.THE END.