ALLANTHEFMEEBOOTiSIi 5OR, THEWitch of Oleixross:WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE SUFFERINGS OFTtODEItICK,THE LAIRD OF GLENROSS,AND HISDESTRUCTION OF THEPRINCELY HALL OF GLENROSS,AND THEMARRIAGE OF THEIR DAUGHTER HELEN!TO THEFREEBOOTER.FALKIRK ;Allan, the FreebooterOn a jutting promontory of one of the most extensivmountains of Caledonia, arose the proud turrets <Glenross Castle, rendered by nature almost impregnablirude precipices and imprevious wilds surrounding it oall sides, and gave an air of romantic granduer to tliscene, perhaps unequalled. Roderick, although po:sessing almost regal power, was a pray to cares ; hnights were nights of watchfulness, his days cankerewith a sorrow, but ill disguised beneath the mask crevelry and magnificance. In vain did the ancient harp<sing the heroic deeds of his ancestors; in vain did hvauhed hails resound with the shouts of the vassals ftthe prosperity of their lord ; they but reminded him thihe had no heir to inherit his honors, and that the ancieiname of Strathmore would expire with himself; tlLady Malvina, to whom he had been wedded nine yearwas grown irksome to him; her mild virtues failed tsecure bis esteem, and a form still the loveliest Cahdonia could boast, inspired but disgust. In vain dishe renew her vows to iier patron saint—the day arriveon which Roderick completed his five aud thirtieth yetwithout promise of an heir: the day was spent by thassembled vassals in mirth and festivity, and as the oreplenished goblet passed the board, “ May our lord tblessed with an heir to his virtues and honors,” burspontaneously from every lip. Roderick, with a failsmile, bowed his head to the salutation; but the wisrankled like a barbed arrow in his heart, and towarevening he left the festive board, and stole unheedefrom the castle to calm the agitation of his mind isolitude. Immersed in gloomy reflections, he bethis steps unconsciously toward a thick wood, whicclothed with hardy evergreens one side of Glenrojsteep, till stopped in his career by a precipice, hleaned against a clump of fir trees, and his eyes wItdered over the distant scenery now fast receding in {|,3ishades of twilight, while his thoughts were employedbn the subject nearest his heart. He had stood severalminutes in an attitude of listless langour.. when he wassuddenly aroused from his reverie by a voice whichSKclaimed, in a deep hollow tone that vibrated pn hisheart.—Why has Roderick of Glenross left the festiveboard to wander amidsts these shades?” He startedand beheld at a few paces distance a female figure, wild|tnd uncouthy habited, the superabundance of her blackdraperies almost concealed her form, yet it appeared of agigantic height; long tresses, dark as the raven’s wing,dowedin disorder over her shoulders; one of her armswas enveloped beneath her sable habiliments, whilst thelather, which was naked, held extended an ebony viand ;rer face appeared haggard and cadaverous ; the deep-|.-ning gloom obscured her features, but her fierce dark'jyes possessed the power of enchantment, and shenad repeated her question before Roderick could(gain sufficient composure to answer her. At length,!; Who art thou,” he exclaimed, ‘ and by what rightfloat thou question Roderick of Glenross ?” “ By thefight of a superior,” replied the figure: “ Roderick, IKnow thy inmost thoughts ; the want of an heir dashesfvith poison the balmy cup which fortune places at thyip, yet ere the anniversary of this day, Roderick, thyardent wish shall be accomplished; but its fulfilments willprove the bane of all thy hopes, thy child shall be thineueir, yet not thine heir, and the meturiiy of thy darlinghall level the to wets of Glenross with the dust ! Sec !deltoid !—the pride of the mighty one is fallen.—theowering falcon seeks a shelter beneath the wing of theavening kite—the flames burst forth !—the night ravencreams round the devoted battlements !—and all isccomplished !” Wildly she shrieked as if beholdingvhat her words foretold;—terrified and appalled, Roder¬ick cast his eyes towards the castle, almost expecting totee it wrapped in flames : the turrets still frowned inloomy grandeur, and he turned again tovvards the de-ouncer ot future eviis, but she was no more to be seen •e looked around, a steep precipice was before him, ^4long avenue of trees surrounded with impenetrable un¬derwood, behind. He had taken his eves but a moment ifrom the mysterious figure, and it hid eluded him ;—hcfiwild shriek still rung in his ears, and was contrasted bythe gloomy silence of all around ; and it was severalminutes ere he could regain his fortitude, and recal thewords of the figure,—“ Your child shall be your heir,—“ Yet not your heir.“ The obscurity of this,” exclaimed Roderick, “ I caninot penetrate.”4- The towering falcon shall seek shelter“ From the ravening kite.”A falcon was the crest of the Laird of Glenross; yetithis was equally inexplicable.”When the long expected hour arrived. Malvina was fo*a time dangerously indisposed, whilst Roderick, whoseagitation was too great to permit him to retire, pacedimpatiently the marble hall of the castle : at length hebeheld Maud (a faithful old servant) slowly descendingthe lofty staircase: precipitately he flew to meet her—asmile lighted up her face—“ Joy to my lord !” she cried.May the race of Strathmore extend to the end of timea lovely boy and girl are added to your house !” “ Aj.boy!” repeated Roderick, ‘Is there indeed a boyf !“ Yes, my lord, and a lovely girl.” Roderick made ncanswer, but instantly flew to announce the birth of hi: ison to his vassals, whilst the existence of the girl renuijaed unnoticed by him. The boy he called Wallace:in the remembrance of one of the most renowned of his ancetors ; but left the nameing of the girl to Malvina, whewith a mcitherS fondness, fancying a promise of superior iUmliaess in her darling, christened her Helen.Roderick marched at the head of his valiant bandtill they neared an extensive vale which stretcheditself at the feet of Ruthven Castle; they had scarcelylilted the rocky defile which led to it, before the soun dswarlike tumult struck their ears, and they perceivedJe clan of Ruthven engaged in mortal conflict with thedowers of Alan, the Freebooter, (sumaided the In-jacible), the clan of Strathmore, with Roderick at theirtad, instantly uttered an exaulting shout, and rushedimultucusly to the fight. The shades ofevening weio•|)w fast advancing, and the Freebooters appeared likelybe the victorious party; Allan, by a pretended flight,i id contrived to allure the Laird of Ruthven with hisbower's to a distance from tire castle; a party of thereebootcrs which had lam in ambush then appearedid investing the walls, prevented their return.The wounds of Allan, though dressed by a skilful| 'irgeon, prevented his tasting repose; but the woundhieh rankled most at his heart, was the one his fameid sustained,—no longer could lie be termed Invin-i bit*,—and as the distant sounds of revelry assailedis ear, he imprecated curses on his conqueror, andrequired all the strength of his guards to prevent hisIpaTing tile bandages from his wounds, and destroying:|y violence a life grown hateful to himself. A fort-jight had nearly elapsed when Allan sent a message toRoderick, that as he felt himself sufficiently recoveredlor a removal, lie should the next day claim the promise|jif freedom, which Roderick in answer assured himShould he complied with.* The following morning Roderick bade adieu to Ruth-[,'en, and in safety arrived within ashort distance ofhisown:astle, when he dispatched his attendants onward to^ive notice ofbis approach. The evening was fast closingihd he had just entered the wood which clothed Glen-ross steep, the umbrageous foliage of which closing overhis head, excluded the last rays of ihe departing sun, anddeepened the approaching twilight to the gloom ofnight, when his thoughts recurred to the seeming myste¬ry which inveloped the freebooter, Roderick proceededunconscious of his route; when suddenly somethingappeared to flit before him ; he started involuntarily, andlooking around with a sansaiion of alarm, a few pacesbefore him he beheld the mysterious figure which imiithe same wood had foretold to him the birth ofanheir.jfcAn indescribable terror oppressed him, and he stoodlllisilently gazed on the figure without power to addresslk"it;—her eyes were fixed upon him with a look of the Jrmost appalling and fiend-like exultation. “ Roderick has jjtdone well,” she exclaimed, “ he has preserved the kite|rthat shall bear away the dove within its talents remem-1|berest thou how prophetic were my words? Roderick||of Glenross attend to me now!—the deed is done 15which at once destroys, and wraps in fancied securityall thy high raised hopes.—Hark !—hearest thou notthe knell of the race of Strathmore ?—mighty Roderiek,on onecondition I will be thy friend, and all these threa¬tened evils may be averted ; tear that brilliant crossfrom thy bosom, trample it under thy feet—then kneeland worship me !”The figure paused as if expecting an answer, butRoderick, enraged, instantly drew bis sword. “ Wretch,’he exclaimed. At that moment, a sudden film seemed topass before his eyes, he raised his hand to his face andinstantly removed it, a loud and demoniac laugh rangin his ears, but the figure had vanished.The words of the mysterious figure rung in his ears..—Hearest thou not the knell of the race of Strathmore?—my Hoy!” he exclaimed ; and as the hollow soundof the death-bell floated heavily on the gale, the heartof Roderick was cold as the icy form for which it tolled.Roderick, imagining his worst fears confirmed, wasseveral minutes before he could articulate “ My wife—my boy,” Are well,” replied the weeping nurse. I‘ for whom then are those sounds? and why does the Isable banner fldat over the battlements of Glenross ?” |Your daughter, the infant Helen,” replied Maud, ‘-ha$ Jbreathed her last.” A mountain seemed taken from thebreast of Roderick, and he attempted nst to veil his rap¬tures as he soothed the increasing agitation of Maud,she supported herself, as she led the way to the ladyMalvina’s apartment.Wallace had scarcely attained the age of fifteen, wheni iifaud was summosed to pay the defat of uature, and inier dying moments she requested to see the bloomingWallace. Roderick, who had visited her chamber, toake a last leave of so old and devoted a domestic, was^resent when she made her request, and anxious togratify a wish urged with almost convulsive earnestness,,e retired, and sent the youth to her chamber; the at¬tendants were instantly dismissed, and Maua left withonly the lady Malvina and her son.i Roderick, almost distracted at beholding a conduct sojopposite to his wishes, received with pleasure an in¬vitation from Malcolm of Ruthven, tocelebratethe birth¬day of a daughter, which had been born to him shortlylaftea- the affair of Allan the Freebooter, and, as she wasjnow about to complete her fourteenth year, Roderickjihistantly determined upon taking Wallace with him,hoping that a change of scene might restore his wontedcheerfulness. Wallace reluctantly made preparationsfor the journey, he would have preferred the company ofhis mother to the promised festivities, but the will ofj! the laird of Glenross was absolute, and in a few dayshe bade adieu to his native towers, and aceompanied byn only two domestics, they reached the ancient Castle ofj] Ruthven in safety. Malcolm & Gertrude received them1 with unfeigned pleasure; the beauty of Wallace seemed: to strike them with surprise and admiration, and send-i ing for Edwin, and their daughter Madeline, introducedI the young people to each other.—Edwin was a hand-h some manly youth of eighteen, generous, noble, andft animated, but an air of fierceness and hauteur threw a:j cloud over his good qualities, and cast at a distance1,1 those who would otherwise have been his warmestii friends—Madeline was a pretty interesting brunette,if whose character as yet only displayed excessive gen¬ii tleness and timidity. Edwin immediately attached him-3 self to Wallace with all the enthusiastic warmth of hischaracter, but Wallace appeared to shrink from the bois-tei ous effusions of his friendship, and to prefer thesociety of the blushing Madeline. Their increasing par¬tiality for each othtr gave both Roderick and Malcolmthe most unfeigned pleasure; death had rendered void:their former engagement of uniting Edwin and Helen;but in Wallace and Madeline their hopes were renewed;and before they, separated for the night, it was resolvedthat on the day that Wallace became eighteen, theirunion shpuld take place.Tiie birth-day of Madeline was kept with the utmostfestivity, ard, in the evening, the heroine of the day ledoff the dance with the graceful Wallace, with all thehilarity of youth and innocence. Roderick & Malcolmstood observing them, sometimes their hearts glowingwith pride at the admiration they excited, and form¬ing plans for their future happiness, when they weresummoned to the hall by a domestic, who informedtheVn a courier had just arrived from Glenross, whodemanded to see his lord immediately.Roderick alarmed, hastened to the messenger, whoinformed him the lady Mdvina was dangerously indis¬posed, and required his immediate presence at Glenross.The night was dark and stormy, yet Roderick determin¬ed on departing instantly, but fearful of exposing Wal¬lace to the rigour of the night, he agreed with Malcolmto leave his son at Kuthven til| the arrival of somefaithful vassals, who, immediately on his reaching Glen¬ross, he would despatch to escort him home.When Roderick arrived at the Castle, ever}" one ap¬peared afraid to mention the cause of their alarm, andlie demanded the reason of their fears. Andrew, theold warden, summoned sufficient courage to reply.The Banshee” my lord, “ Fool,” hastily repliedRoderick ! (every one seemed now to recover fromtheir panic.) for all, as with one voice, cried indeedmy lord, we all heard it.!”—Roberick paused for a fewmoments, a sudden thought having crossed his mind,and he shuddered, as he inquired what they had heard.“The Banshee, my lord,’ replied Andrew, “ i askedyou what were the words you pretended to hear.” Thewords my lord ; why in a voice like tn under it exclaim-'ed-19“ Woe to the race of Strathmore!”"Woe to the Golden Falcon !“Woe to the turrets of Glenross!”The appalling looks of their lord now seemed as an ex-I ^use to the trembling domestics for their own fears, andlinstantly surrounded him, each endeavouring to explain|iis own particular cause of terror ‘When heard you this”-jjLuesti, cd Roderick : “ the three last nights,” replied•Hkndnr., “it has resounded throughout every apartmentj pf the castle, from the hours of twelve till two ; except;ihe bed-chamber of the lady Maivina, and though it hasjeried at her very door, she, sweet saint, never appearedjto hear it: indeed old Janet, who is her head nurselljsays she always falls asleep just before it begins to cry,ijand never awekes till it vanishes. “Vanishes! has anylone seen it yet?” “No. my lord, but it certainly vanishes> for as soon as she old turret clock strikes two, it givesi a hideous scream near the castle gate, and all is quietagain.” Roderick, tho’ shuddering at the remembranceI of a prediction which now seemed about to be verified,made a strong effort to dispel the alarm he had not beenable to conceal, and again demanded them to attend himto bis chamber.Some time after this a domestic running toward him,besought him to hasten to his lady, who they fearedwas in the agonies of death. As she beheld the en-; trance of her lord, she made an effort to raise herself.i| but the exertion was too much for her strength, andI she again fainted. After she recovered, a faintsmile irradiated the pale countenance of the expiringsaint; she cast her eyes towards heaven, then restedthem on the crucifix; her lips quivered, a slight con¬vulsion agitated her frame, and a heap of dust was allthat remained of the once lovely Malvina. It was nearevening when the vassals sent to escort Wallace arrivedat Ruthven, but the youth no sooner understood thedanger oflus mother, than he determined on departinginstantly; nor could all the persuasions of Malcolm orthe fearful eyes of Madeline turn him from his purpose.The party came to an opening which led through an10extensive forest, and Wallace, secure of the road, has¬tened on as fast as his steed could carry him, •vhilst hisvassals in vain endeavoured to make their tired beasts!overtake him.He had proceeded for some time, his thoughts whollytaken up with reflections on his mother's illness, whenihe was startled by a shrill whistle, almost close to him, ]he stopped instantly, <Sr heard it answered by another ata little distance ; he would have turned his horse to re¬trace his steps, but was prevented by several men, whospringing from the hedge that skirted the read, seizedhis bridle, and by threats and imprecations commandedsilence. One of them turned his horse from the road,and led him rapidly through the mazes of the forest: hewas led or rather dragged along with the utmost speed,till his spirits totally failing him, he fell senseless fromhis saddle. One of the men then giving him a heartyby way of extinuation, “ that it was but a boy,” moun¬ted the horse, placed him before himself, and continuedtheir route.As soon as Malvina expired, Roderick retired tohis own apartment, sincerely grieved at her last requestWhen night came he dismissed his harassed attendantsto their beds, determined to watch for a repetition of theawful threatenings denounced against his race. Im-patiently he paced his chamber, anxiously listening toevery sound, and resolved to follow the voice in what¬ever part of the castle it might be heard, but the silencecontinued undisturbed till the bright beams of mornipggleamed through the casement.As he passed through the hall, he heard the voice ofold Andrew at the gate, uttering an exclamation of ;horror or surprise. Hastily he went forward, and be¬held the vassals whom he had dispatched for Wallace ;but Wallace was not with them, and their fear-struekcountenances, added to the tears which rolled downthe reverend face of the old warder, spoke volumesof misery to his heart.Jhe untimely death of bis son was the only idea thatcurse for his pusillanimity, picked him up and observing11; rossed his mind, and, issuing immediate orders for hisi clan to assemble, he gave directions for Malvina to lien state till his return ; and before noon, attended by anumerous band, he quitted Glenross, directing his routeo the forest.It was near evening when they reached the sj>or.,oointed out by the attendants e place where Wal¬lace was torn from them. The c:an separated in twodivisions, and strict search was made throughout everyIran of the forest; but in vain ! tire fugitive could not)e found, though his horse, sti ipt of his trappings, wasdiscovered loose in the woods.Night arrived without any farther information, andafter erecting a small tent for the shelter of their lord,the tired vassals kindled a fire, stretched themselves; tround it, and forgot the fatigues of the day in sound re-;-)cse. Roderick stood leaning on his spear and musingan his loss, when a sudden blast of wind blew the al¬most expiring embers into a blaze, and by the reflectionof its light, he beheld standing near the flame, the hagme had twice before beheld in the woods of Glenross.iThefire cast a blue, and supernatural appearance overiher figure, and as he gazed on her, Roderick s fortitudewbrsook him and superstitious fears blanched his cheeksAt length he gained sufficient composure to utter1 “ Mysterious Being, who art thou for ever the harbingerlof ill, Who art tho*. ?” “ Thy evil genius, Roderickn(returned the hag), thy murmurs against the supremeudisposer of all events, has given me power over thee.. .Roderick enjoyed not the blessings he possessed, Rodc->.rick pined for an heir:—Whom seekest thou iaird of! iGlenross ; the son c-f Strathmore ! fifteen years ago, inthe woods of Glenross thou heardst his knell!” Slave1—liar! (ejaculated Roderick) what ho! mv faithfulvassals, rise and secure this wretch !” As he spoke, heapproached her; but extending her arm, she touchedi his spear with his hand, and brittle as glass it shiveredin countless atoms, whilst spell-bound, he remainedrooted to the spot, then waving her wqnd over thesleeping vassals, she cxclaimeu—“ Till the sun passe*12the eastern horizon, sleep on!—Roderick, when thoiiagain beholdest me. the event of my predictions will beat hr*hd, and the turrets of Glenross will be delivered t<3tlie flames; but already it is in part accomplished, the.dove is within tiie gripe of the ravening kite. Retor twith the dav/n of day to thy home, Wallace of Glenroe? >is no mote;“ Woe to the race of Stratbr.ore.”t! Woe to the Golden Falcon,” ,“ Woe to the turrets of Glenross !" |[As she (poke, a furious blast blew far and wide thel ’sparkling embets of the fire, a cloud passed over thelpbright luminary of night, and the scene was* enveloped! 'in total darkness.The freebooters who had seized Wallace bore him,In«iiii insensible, to the verge of the forest, and halted at1the foot oftheslupendousmountain, whose perpendicularand craggy sides, defied the efforts of the most adven¬turous to nScend. One of them then taking a Buglefrom his side, blew a long and shrill blast, which wasanswered from' the summit of the precipice, and ina lew moments the trunk of an old oak which grew at.the foot, and appeared almost coeval with time, slowlyunclosed, and discovered a long passage sufficientlywide to allow two persons to walk abreast.The steed of Wallace wAS then stript of its trappingsand turned loose into the wrtod, whilst the men bearinghim in their arms, entered the aperture, which imme¬diately closed affer them. The passage was lighted bynumerous lamps, at regular distances, and winding roundthe rock, ended in a cavern of immense extent, loftyand lighted as the passage.The captain who was reclining on a couch, arose attheir entrance, anti the men laid Wallace on the seat hehad quitted. “Who have we here?” be exclaimed,“ Thu boy you directed us to way-lay,” replied Samson, 1— ; You are mistaken, this youth l know not: how coll IIhe is, and how came this contusion on his forehead, did II not command you to use no violence ?" “ Nor did we ICaptain; he tumbled from his horse with fright, if be is I13cihurt that is the cause ot'it,” “ Where is Ambrose r” (in-*: iterrupted the captain) At sapper in the cavern ’ re-. j plied a domestic. Go and tell hifn to bring his lancetshither instantly !" “Willingly,” (replied Bridget,) and«liastening to Ambrose, she told him that he must go and'bleed an angel that was lying dead in the Captain’sii cell.|| Whilst he prepared his lancets, the Captain took oft| the bonnet of the insensible youth, and his redundantauburn tresses fch lose over his shoulders. Bridget,who could not conceal her admiration, now offered heri;| services, and pi'oceediug to take off his jacket, screamedi with surprise, as the bosom of his shirt falling opendiscovered that Wallace, the heir of Gienross, was awoman, and one of tire loveliest of her sex.jl The surprize of all present did not prevent Ambrosejfrom preforming his operation with great dexterity :i the blood flowed freely and in a few minutes, WallaceI (or as we shall in future- caliber, Helen) gave signs of•J returning animation. The Captain then mads all exceptijj Bridget quite the apartment, and in a few minutes shej opened her eyes, and gazed wildly around her. The■|j Captain was so much lost in adnoration, and Bridget inin astonishment, tiiey hesitated to address her, but theirif earnest gaze drew her attejntion to her own disordered•1 person, which she no soomer perceived, but guessed thel| discovery which had been made, she uttered a screamji of terror and surprize, and relapsed into a state of insen-li sibility. Ambrose was again summoned, but for some| time his skill was exerted in vain, as she fell from one| fainting fit into another, till nature being exhausted,I she became quiot.It was a late hour of the morning, when the effectsof the potion she had taken, ceased ; and she awokeweak and feeble, and looked wildly around withoutcomprehending what had befallen her, but the sight ofBridget brought to her memory the events of the pre-: ceding evening, the death of Malvina also crossed hermind, and .hastily starting from her t.ed, she exclaimed,1 “ Olt ! if you h ve either pity or humanity, suffer me tonquit this place, let me instantly depart for Glenross“ Oh ! the virgin !” returned Bridget, “ I fear it willbe a long time lady.‘before you see Glenross ; you are aprisoner here for life!” “ For life !” (repeated Helen),“ Yes, lady, for life! No female that enters these cavernsever again quite them, except upon two occasions, to bemarried, or be buried, and in the first place they go nofurther than a little chapel in the centre of the forest,and instantly return ; for should they attempt to escape,our men are all sworn, and must plunge their dirks intothe bosom of the fugitive;” ( Helen shuddered), “ Andthe priest—Oh ! he is a holy man, and lives in a her¬mitage close by, devoted to a life of penance, be belongsto the clan of our lord, and is a great friend of his..:moreover,” “ Your lord !” interrupted Helen, “ Whatdid I say my lord ?” replied Bridget, in confusion, “ ourCaptain, I meant.” “ Well, no matter, can I see thisCaptain ?” “ Oh yes, I dare say you can my lady, I willgo and enquire.”He was a man, who appeared about six-and-twenty,tall, muscular, and formed with such symmetry, that hisevery movement was easy and graceful, and during therepast which had been previously prepared, he glancedhis eyes towards her, and the heart. of the experiencedHelen felt their power, and surrendered itself without astruggle for liberty.As soon as their repast was finished, the Captain en¬treated to know what unfortunate accident had forcedher to assume the disguise he saw her in, and when sheassured him, it was the dress she had worn from herbirth, his looks expressed her astonishment. In as con¬cise a manner as possible, she then informed him, thather twine brother dying in his infancy, her mother dread¬ing the excess of her lord’s grief and disappointment, hadyielded to the entreaties of her nurse, and substituted me,her female infant, in his room : she added, that the con¬tinual attention necessary to conceal the secret, had un¬dermined the health of her mother, to whom she wasgoing when his men siezed, and brought her to thecavern. He then enquired her name ; from habit, sheinswered, “Wallace, the only child of Roderick Strath¬more, laird of Glenross.” She had scarcely uttered her^lame, when he started from his seat, and clasping his>ands, paced the room in the utmost agony, whilst thennazing Helen gazed at him with emotions of fear andurprise. In a few moments the violence of his grief, ippeared to Soften ; “ Unfortunate Name !” he exclaimed,‘ Art thou always, the harbinger of misery to thy pos¬sessor; then coming towards her, he to*k both herI rands in his, and continued, “ hut happily that is not thyi'eal name, tell it me, and if you would avoid the sightipfa maniac, never again let me hear the other. Whats thy own name?” “Helen,” see replied. “LovelyiHelen,” he returned, “ I once received an obligationfrom thy father, I have often wished to repay it. Oh ![night tire felicity be mine of forming the future happi-!ness of his daughter.”—“ Have you long resided here ?”:j;he ventured to ask. A cloud overcast his intelligentj'ountenancc, as he answered more than twenty years.”The follow ing morning she was awakened by Bridget,livho cgme to summon her to breakfast. Helen felt her-lelf extremely depressed, and entered the breakfast roomIvith an air so languid, and a face so pale, as must havehttracted the attention of tbe Captain, who was waitingfor her had not his own agitation been so great, as toprevent his noticing her. The breakfast passed almost insilence ; as soon as it was ended the captain placed him-Iself by her side, and taking her hand, said—“ LovelyHelen, know you that your beauty has caused as muchadmiration, as that of your celebrated namesake ? LovelyHelen,” he continued sinking on his knees before her,“ May the unhappy man at your feet, hope for the love ofthe high born heiress of Glenross? And Helen at| length avowed that his situation alone prevented herreturning his love, adding, “ Can the daughter of Roder-jlck Strathmore ally herself to a leader of banditti ? “ Myfather was a victim to the cruelty and injustice of theEnglish Monarch. The greatest blot in the characterof Edward is, the untimely death of Wallace !” “ Wal¬lace,” repeated Helen, “ Wallace the defender of Scotland,16the brave William Wallace?” “ The same,” he replied“the Soldiers of the English king were sent to seize himin his paternal dwelling; he escaped, hut his innocenwife tell a victim to the unrelenting fury of the mercilesfiends, who persecuted him, they plunged their daggersin her heart and departed. My father had been idolizedby his clan, ni wonder then, seeing in me his livin'image, that their attachment was enthusiastic.As I grew to manhood the oft-told story of mj fatherwrongs, and the remembrance of my oath, inspired mwith ideas of revenge, I trained my followers and wagedwar on all who had been enemies of my father, both farand near.Whilst attacking the castle of Ruthven, who had beenone of Wallace’s most deadly enemies, I was conquered,and wounded by the hand of the laird of Glenross, whowith true magnanimity giving me my life and liberty,;I foreswore my enmity, and returned to this retreat; thoshame of being conquered, made me resolve to declinedwarfare in future, and since that time, I have acted oni;the defensive only : the game of the neighbouring forestschiefly supply us with food, nor do my men ever molest;the traveller, but when necessity compels them to exacta small return of that which lawless power has deprivedus of.” He ceased, and the tears of Helen was the besteulogium she could bestow on the memory of the brave,but unfortunate Wallace. In the course of the day itwas resolved that their union should take place, beforethe expiration of th# week, in the little chapel of the'-forest, and father Austin undertook to procure female*habiliments for the bride, who was on that occasion toassume, for the first time, the dress of her sex, and informing plans for the felecity of the future, the day flew-away unheeded. ^As soon as the shades of twilight wrapt their steps in isecurity, Allan threw a large mantle ground the form ofHelen, and taking her hand, led her from the cavern,', >followed by father Austin and several of the band, all !well armed, but to Helen’s great disappointment, ffridgetjwas not suffered to attend her farther than the entrance17: assage. This incident brought her to remembrance, thatn Iier return, she herself would be a prisoner for lifeithln these rocky caverns; she trembled and almosttinting leaned on the arm of Allan. The cold eveningreeze3 whistled shrilly through the luxuriant foliage,id they proceeded in silence, till Helen fancied she ob-prved several figures cross the extremity of an avenueyiey were emerging from, and concealed themselves in theidervvo®d: Allan, informed of her apprehensions, halted,ihilst he sent several of the band to reconn itre the>ot; they searched narrowly, but no human being was) be descried, and Helen almost convinced that herars h ad formed the shadowy figures she fancied she hadi iheld, drew the. hood of her mantle closer over her face{d proceeded in silence.They soon reached the chapel, and Allan placed him-lf by her on a low beanch, just within the entrance, en-avoured to sooth and re-assure her, whilst the bandIs reeled by father Austin, placed lights round the altar.!In a few minutes Helen became more composed, androwing off her mantle, gave her hand to Allan to leadr to the altar; at this instant, the door of the chapelis closed with violence, Helen shrieked, and threwrself into the expanded arms of Allan, whilst the bandawing their swords rushed out tumultuously to ascer-n the cause, they instantly returned, and gave aseir opinions that the wind alone had caused the noise,pae venerable father had commenced the ceremony, whichas almost immediately interupted by the chapel dooreing thrown violently open, and a commanding voice>udly exclaimed, “ Forbear!” Panic struck, the wholeroupe cast their eyes toward the portal, and beheldtall martial figure wrapt in a dark mantal, hastilyoproached them. When he arrived at the altar, he threwf his cloak, and witli horror both Helen and Allan re-jgnized the laird of Glenross: his form appeared dilatedith passion. “ Approach,” he cried, and a numerous re-nueofarmedmea rushed up the aisle: “seize the traitor,’’e exclaimed, drawing his sword and pointing to the as-mished Allan ; “ seize the wretch who would a'ly the18noble blood of Strathmore to beggary and infamy.” Herepeated bis command, but his men, awed by the look*of the band, hesitated to obey ; when raising his glitter¬ing falcon he fiercly approached the still immoveableAllan; his action aroused Helen from the torpor whichhad seized her, and with a piercing shriek, she flung her¬self between them, and fell lifeless at the feet of herfather. Roderick gazed upon her with emotion, andagain commanded the seizure of Ulan ; the trusty bandthen drew their weapons, and placed themselves beforetheir beloved chief, who would not draw his swordagainst the father of his betrothed bride, in whom hewished to behold a friend, rather than an enemy ; thesacred fane now become the scene of fierce contention,but the servant of religion was respected still, and fatherAustin, partly by persuasion and partly by force, suc¬ceeded in drawing Allan from the spot, and his bandreached the cave in safety. As Roderick beheld theilovely form of his daughter lying at his feet, the feelings|ofnature awakened in his bosom, he raised her in his arm*,and, as he gazed on her transendant loveliness, his keenregrets for a male heir were ahnost obliterated.[As soon as the ceremony of Malvina’s funeral wasended, Roderick retired to his chamber, he remainedthere alone till the following morning, pensively rumi¬nating on the sudden and mysterious occurances whichhad attended the loss both of his wife and son, whenAndrew, the old warder, begged permission to enter toannounce that a strange black looking man at the gatecraved vehemently to see the laird of Glenross on busi¬ness of the first importance. Roderick instantly refusedhis request, but upon the warder saying, from somequestions the fellow had put to him, he believed hebrought intelligence of his young lord, he as precipi¬tately ordered him to be instantly brought before him.The warder then retired, and quickly returned withDonaldblain, (for it was him who had secretly left thdiljcave,) and briefly unfolded to Roderick his daughter’s dis-|guise, and that she was upon the following evening to.jiI!19i Hjcome the wife of Allan, in the chapel of the forest.. Scarcely could Roderick give credence to the tale.—Conviction at length flashed on his mind ;—a thousandi recollections confirmed it, and, indignant at the intended. |nsult he flew to the hall, giving orders for the assemblagel)f his vassals the following morning, and for the carefullending of his friendly informer. Tho fiercest love forHelen had implanted itself in the ferocious soul of Donald-□lain, and temeted him to use this means of tearing heri irom the arms of his ribel.]When they arrived at Glenross castle, she immediatelyretired to her apartment; she had remained alone nearlytwo hours, when the door of her apartment opened, andi )ld Janet, an attached and favorite servant of the Lady3 Malvina’s, entered, bearing asmall traywith refreshments,he old woman placed the breakfast on the table, and thenupproached Helen, viewed her very attentively for severaljpiinutes, then lifting up her eyes, exclaimed in a tone ofustonishment, “ is it indeed possible, that I live to see theieir of Glenross changed into a woman?—ah well a day,l;r>ad doings,saddoings,nowonderweall heard the Banshe !ji|—Old Maud was a good friend of mine, but I pray theluoly virgin that I may never see her again, for I amcertain she cannot rest in her grave after such a wicked: action ; cur good lady too, who could have thought it,f am not surprised she could not die in peace,” “ Die!”mclaimed Helen, starting from her couch, “ of what ladyIre you speaken of ?’’ “ Your mother, my lord,” repliedlie old woman, “ heaven help me, my lady, I shouldave said, but I am sure I shall never recollect it” “ Die !”itermpted Helen, “ did you say my mother was dead ?’Aye, alas the day, and buried too,” replied Janet. Aerrific shriek was the only answer that Helen made tosis unwelcome intelligence, but hastily springing to theoor, she flew to the apartment of her mother, to ascer-lin the truth of old Janet’s report; all here was cold andreary, the rooms was stript of their accustomed furniture,nd above the canopy under which the body of Malvina>ad reposed, still waved the sable plumbs ; this confirm-ation of the dreadful istelKgence struck like a bolt of iceto the heart of Helen, and she fell senseless on the floor.Far several days Helen remained too ill to quit herapartment, and was left intirely to the care of old Janet:but at the expiration of a week, Roderick—unannounced,entefed the room ; Helen instantly' arose, and threw her¬self weeping on her knees before him ; he gently raisedher, and seating her on the couch, placed himself besideher: he continued silent, arid Helen raising her tearfuleyes to his face, beheld him gazing on her with a smile.This unexpected kindness completely subdued the heartofthe innocent girl, and she threw herself into his expandedarms • he pressed her to his heart, saying,. “ be calm mylove, I cometo sooth, not to wound yourlaceratedieelings,you have been an irtnocerit imposter, and ought not tosuffer on that account; for the future we will avoid asubject so replete with disappointment and mortification ;with regard to vOur intended marriage with the freebooter,I doubtless look upon -it in the right light—force andnecessity, and eongratu'ate rhyself that I arrived in time;to save you from the dreadful degradation.”An hour before He'eti thought her misery' complete,she now found it might receive addition ; but towardevening,‘old Jailet jitessedher to walk up the bajjpemetitsto enjoy the fresh air. When they reached the sum¬mit of the batt’ement, Janet enquired if she had seen thepilgrims, Helen answered in the affirmative, “f didnot like to begin the subject before,” rep' ied Janet, “ but1they arrived at the cast’e fast night, and they have brought •word that our blessed lady' is a saint in'heaven.” Helen’stears flowed at the mention of her mother, and she be¬sought Janet to explain her meaning. “ Why I can tell ,you no more lady', when they were both doing pen¬ance at the shrine of Saint Sybil, when our dear ladyMalvina appeared to them, and told them thCir sinsshould be fotgiven them, if they came to Glenross, aridwatched nightly at her tomb nine following nights. Ourlord believes it, and has given orders, that thy shall havefree adnission to the chapel nightly. She had scarcely'reached the foot of the grand staircase, when one of thev ' - . ; - -»21; pilgrims hastily following her, exclaimed, “ Lady youi have dropped your rosary,” and placing one in her hand,retired; Janet was so occupied in gazing after the pil¬grim, that Helen had time to slip a smail folded paper,attached to the rosary, into her bosom unseen. “ Did youlobseive his face?” inquired Janet. Helen was so muchi jjagitated, that she could scarcely answer in the negative.Heaven bless us, how handsome he is,” continued thelold woman.As she was left alone, with a trembling hand she ex-riamined her note, it contained only these few words, “ Ifnyou have not forgotten a banished man, be a lady Mal-ivina's tomb at ten this night.” As Helen tremblinglyiopened the door of her apartment, and ventured forth,she left her lamp burning in her chamber, fearing thatits rays might betray her steps. She reached the gal¬lery unobserved, and fastening the door after her, satiherself for a few moments on a seat to recover herbreath, which fright had almost deprived her of. Whenshe had reached the aisle, she observed in the distance| the loft}? white maible tomb of Malvina ; numerous lights1 were burning around it, and kneeling at its base werethe counterfeit pilgrims. But light as were her motions,they were heard by the watchful ear of love, and startingfrom the ground, one of the pilgrims was instantly byher side, and throwing off his disguise, she beheld Allanthe son of Wallace.The following day Malcolm of Ruthven and his sonEdwin arrived at Glenross, and Helen received herfather’s commands to apdearat the banquet, which passedalmost in silence, excepting Edwin’s entreating a privateaudience, which, as he had Roderick’s sanction for so¬liciting Helen, dared not refuse. Edwin availed him¬self of the opportunity, and pleaded his passion with fer¬vour ; but retired more offended at her coolness, t ban en¬chanted by her beauties; and half resolved by quiltingthe castle to avoid an union with a vvoman, who, how¬ever lovely, had not a heart to bestow on him. Heleneffected indisposition, and obtained her father’s permis¬sion to retire. Before -her window was a sipall balconyfilled with aromatic plants, ami while she w'as gazing citthe last rays of the departing sun, she was startled;by the fall of an arrow amidst the flowers, but moreso at beholding a folded paper affixed to its point;with a hasty hand she took the billet, when she beheldone of the pilgrims descending from the battlements of asturret that commanded her apartment, and was at no*loss to divine from whom the letter came, but wonder¬ing at its import She tremblingly unfolded it; the writingwas same site had seen before ; and it contained onlythese lines. “ A circumstance has occurred that rendersit necessary for us to meet at an hour later than thetime appointed; when the clock strikes eleven, fail notto meet the future guardian of your life.”Roderick in the meanwhile felt his spirits unusually |depressed, and dismissed his attendants, seated himselfon a couch, and remained buried in painful ruminationtill the chapel clock tolled eleven. Starting at the late¬ness of the hour, he was about to retire to rest; when,a loud paal of thunder, followed by a scream, arrestedhis step, & instantly the hag entered his apartment. Herlooks were wild, and her garments floated loosely on theground. Roderick remembered her prophecy. Whenthou next beholdest me tbc event of my predictions willbe at hand ; and he stood motionless as a statue, whilein a deep hollow voice she repeated,“ Woe to the race of Strathmore !“ Woe to the Golden Falcon !“ Woe to the turrets of Glenross ! ’ BThen extending her wand, she exclaimed, “ Follow me !" JjRoderick drawing his sword, snatched up the lamp and j|obeyed her command. With a rapid step she led theway to the chapel; but at the portal uttered a wildand hideous scream, she sunk into the earth and vanished.Roderick's feelings were wound up to a degree of phren-zy ; he dashed the lamp from him, and proceeded. Thetapers around Malvina’s tomb, gave sufficient light to hispath, and a distant hollow voice directed him to the altar-he approached and beheld a scene, which for a momentparalyzed his frame. Before the sacred spot knelt the23lovely form of Helen, and a man in a pilgrim’s habit,whilst a reverend friar was reading the marriage cere¬mony. Frantic with rage, Roderick rushcJ up the stepsof the altar, and before his presence was perceived, plung¬ed his sword deep into the heart of the pilgrim ; who,with a dreadful groan, instantly expired : the act wasInstantaneous* and Helen, uttering a loud shriek, fell'senseless on the marble pavement. At the moment ofher fall, a bugle was heard to resound throughout thefaulted fabric, and a party of armed men rushed up theaisle, and to the amazement of father Austin, he beheldhabited as the laird of his clan, Allan. The reverendI father cast his eyes upon the breathless body before him';in the agonies of death his disguise had fallen off, andhe beheld Donaldblain disguised as Allan, who hadi learned the hour of their appointed marriage, and deter-inined to substitute himself in the room of Allan:—thei'lgitation of all parties prevented a discovery of the im¬posture, and Helen had just received the ring that madefiber the wife of Donaldblain, when her father’s swordrpunished his arrogance.Allan was without the chapel, waiting for the strikingof the appointed hour, when he beheld Roderick enter||ihe portal: not doubting hut his plan was discovered and|he seizure of Helen meditated, instantly blew his buglerwhich summoned his trusty clansmen to his rescue.The hand enraged at beholding one of their numberplying dead upon the ground, and the laird of Glenros*liwith the sanguinary instrument in his hand, attackedfhim with the greatest fury, and he was wounded beforelAllan could throw himself between them.The sound of the bugle had alarmed the inhabitants of)the castle, who with Edwin, Malcolm and their retainers,(rushed to the scene of action, where they beheld Allan,wounded by one of Roderick’s partisans,) fall before theiltar; Allan’s clansmen, irritated and enraged, withburning brands set fire to the castle, and ere the morn¬ing dawned, a heap of ruins was nearly all that remainedof the once princely hall of (ilenross. "Q4>,Edwin having learned from one of Allan’s vassals hhad conquered, the real cause ©f the tumult, hurried tothe chapel where he had last seen Roderick. This partof tiie edifice had suffered much less than any other part,and beside the altar he found Roderick extended weakand bleeding; Helen was kneeling beside him, viewingwith looks of destruction and horror the breathless foriof Allan, which lay apparent})' dead at her feet. Edwinhad them separately borne to those apartments that hadsuffered least, and every care bestowed on them. Allanwas only faint from loss of blood, time and strict attentioirestored both him and Roderick to perfect health, andrenewed the faded bloom of Helen..The laird of Glenross learning from Allan the history J;of himself and family, with his prior engagement toHelen, generously presented his daughter to Allan, ashis bride, who relinquished his vow of seclusion fronsociety, and the clan of Wallace was incorporated willthat of Strathmore.The stately towers of Glenross shortly rose again mormagnificent from their ruins, and Helen presented theenraptured Roderick with a grandson, which was calledRoderick Wallace Strathmore, to perpetuate the nameof both the families, on the anniversary of the day thatmade her the wife of ALLAN THE FREEBOOTERif'A1