SHOWING HOWMAY BE ASCERTAINED BYMEANS OF DREAMSWITH A CHAPTER ON THESIGNIFICATION OF MOLES,PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.THEGOLDEN- ?I*DREAMER’S ORACLE. 0 When you go to bed, put under your pillow a prayer-book,opened at the marriage service, bound with garters, a sprigf myrtle on the words, “with this ring I thee wed" andlour dream wiU be ominous.Abuse. To dream that you are abused or insulted isi sure sign that you will have a dispute with someterson. vA-bed. To dream that you are in bed, betokens goodlealth, hut beware, for some one wishes to injure you.Abroad. If you dream you are in a foreign country,ome one who is making money abroad is likely to be-[ueath a fortune to you.i Actress. To dream of an actress, not performing onhe stage, denotes to the lover that careful attentionoust he paid to all undertakings and all will be well. ?o the man of business, it is a sure sign of success.! _ Acquaintance. To dream that you fight with them,ignifies distraction, especially if the person so dream-ag he sick.Adorn. Should you dream of being gaily dressed inplendid apparel, denotes a sure sign of some affliction; o yourself or your relatives.—If your dress be in blackt denotes prosperity and good success attending yourndertakings.Agricultural Implements. This is a good dream to eithertan or woman ; it denotes good luck, very fortunate,nd plenty to live upon.Ague. To dream that you have one, and are veryold, shows an inclination to fermented liquors.Air To dream you see it clear and serene shows yoube beloved and esteemed by all people, and thatose who are your enemies, and envy you, shall be4reconciled to you; if with thick and dark clouds, youwill meet with disappointments.Altar. To dream that you are at the altar betokensjoy and gladness; if at the Hymenial altar the marriagewill be deferred.Alms. To dream that they are begged of you, andyou deny to give them, shows want and misery to thedreamer, but to dream that you give them freely, is asign of joy and long life.Anchor. To dream of an anchor signifies great assur¬ance and certain hope: if you are in love it warns youto be assiduous and attentive to attain the object ofyour wishes, otherwise your passion will not meet withsuccess : but beware of some friend who pretends morethan ordinary attachment; he will deceive you, and tryvainly to injure you in the most tender part.Anger. To dream that you are in a violent passion,or abusing or fighting either friend or stranger, denotesyou to have many enemies, and that some evil designis formed against you; if unfortunately, with a wife orhusband, you may expect great disgrace will befallyou; if with a sweetheart, you will fall sick and expe¬rience a great loss. *Angels. To dream that you see angels is a sure sign -that some one is near you, and that the remainingpart of your dream shall prove true ; be thereforemindful of it : if you are in love, nothing can be morefavourable, and your undertakings will prosper.Angling. If you are fishing in a clear stream, it is anexcellent dream ; you will be extremely fortunate inall your undertakings; but should you be fishing inmuddy water, you must beware of those who are pre¬tending great friendship, as they will surely and sadlydisappoint you.Anthem. To dream of singing an anthem with othersbeside you denotes a long journey you will be engagedin, and will arrive safe home and bring plenty withyou.Apparel. To dream that your apparel is proper, andsuited to the season of the year denotes prosperity 'and happiness.Apphs. To dream of seeing apples, and they eatsweet and ripe, is a sure sign of prosperity, especiallya5to virgins; if they should eat sour, it signifies muchsorrow and unhappiness.Apron. If you dream of your apron falling off it isa sure sign of good; some one is thinking about youto do you good.—If your apron he on, and a very richone, he very cautious of your lover; for if he he notvery attentive to you, he will give you the slip—if he isattentive, watch him.Arms. To dream that your arms are witheredand decayed shows that the person will decline inhealth or fortune; if they appear to he more plump,and grow strong, you will meet with unexpected pro¬sperity ; if your arms are broken you will lose somedear friend hy removing to a great distance ; if yourright arm is cut off you will lose a near male relation,—if the left a female.Ass. To dream that you are riding on an ass signi¬fies that you will he guilty of some very foolish action,for which you will condemn yourself ; if he is feeding,your servants will he diligent and faithful; if you aredriving him you will get the better of your trouble; ifhe runs after you, some silly one will occasion a laughagainst you; if he appears loaded, you will advancejour fortune.Baby. If you dream that you have a baby nursing isa sign of some misfortune. If the baby be sickly, asure sign of death.Back. If your back is broke out in blotches secretenemies are injuring you; if you dream that your backis broken, you will meet with some loss; if it growsstronger you will receive an unexpected addition toyour fortune. To dream of the back bone indicateshealth and joy, and that he will take delight in his wifeand children.Bacon. To dream of bacon denotes the death of somefriend or relation, and that enemies will endeavour todo you a mischief—in love, it denotes disappointmentand discontent.Baypines. To dream that you play upon them denotestrouble, contention, and being overthrown at law.Bakehouse. If you are in a bakehouse where there isplenty of bread, you will have a large increase in yourfamily, and an equal proportion in your business. If6the bakehouse is very hot, beware of your sweetheart;If the bakehouse is cold, and you are making bread,you will have to go a journey, and return with muchsuccess to you.Bank. To dream of being in a bank, and doing busi¬ness, is a good sign of success. If you are paying orreceiring money, be careful in your transactions, anddoubt much of the accuracy of those who are speakingfavourably of you.Bc&quet. To dream of banqueting shows that youwill be disappointed in some very interesting circum¬stances of your life.Barefooted. To dream you are barefooted is a gooddream. A law suit will take place in your family andyou will obtain a verdict in your favour with all costs.If you are barefooted and your feet dirty, get all yourarrangements put right as quickly as possible, and thenproceed to your duties and success will attend you.Baptise. To dream that some one is baptizing you isa sign of going a journey. Or if another is baptized,and you are a looker on, you will hear of some of yourfriends; and should you be wanting a favor of them,your desires will be realised, and all will be well. Ifthe water is clear, it is an excellent dream.Barn To dream you see a barn well stored with cornshows that you will marry a rich wife, overthrow youradversaries at law, inherit and get rich by trading orgift; it also signifies banqueting or merry-making.Barley-bread. To dream of eating barley-bread be¬tokens health and great comfort to the dreamer.Basin. To dream you are eating or drinking out of abasin, is a certain sign that you will soon be in love;but without care you will not marry the first object ofyour affections.Bathing. To dream you are bathing in clear water, isa splendid dream, and a sure sign of good fortune inall your undertakings. To the lover he will prove true.If the water be rough and muddy, be careful in whatyou do in your business, as some one will endeavour totake you in; to the lover, be prudent in your speechand manners, or else disgrace will attend your actions.Battle. If you dream of seeing a battle, beware ofsecret enemies, who will endeavour to hurt you if youare in love, your sweetheart is false.r/7Bay-tree. To dream of a bay-tree denotes success inall your undertakings.Beans. To dream of beans is unfavourable : it is theforerunner of troubles and quarrels ; if you are in loveexpect a difference to happen between you and yoursweetheart.Beasts. To dream some furious beast pursues you,and you cannot avoid it; betokens your enemies willprevail against you.Beef. To dream of beef denotes the death of a friendor relation; in love, it denotes disappointment.Bees. If you see bees at work in your dream, it sig¬nifies that your industry will be prosperous; if theyare flying about, bad reports will be spread of you ; ifthey sting you, you will suffer loss either of your goodsor reputation.Birds. To dream you hear birds singing is a sign ofhappiness; if you are married something will happenmuch to the advantage of your family; it is a sign ofgreat success in business ; to see them fly denotes youwill soon go a long journey, which will he pleasant andprosperous; -to dream you catch them, signifies someunexpected good fortune; if they are beautiful, thesuccess will be the greater; to dream of finding anempty nest, denotes losses and great uneasiness.Boat. To dream yon are in a boat on clear water isvery good, and indicates joy and prosperity.Bridge. If you are going over a bridge in your dream,and meet with no interruption, you will go through lifein a prosperous and contented manner.Buried Alive. For a man to dream he is buried aliveshows he is in danger of being unhappy and unfortun¬ate during his life.Cage. To dream of letting birds out of a cage notesa speedy marriage; to a person in business it denotessuccess—to a farmer good crops.Cakes. To dream that one makes them signifies joyand profit; to dream of cakes without cheese is good;but to dream of both, signifies deceit in love.Candle. To dream that you make candles is a sign ofrejoicing. To dream that you see candles not lightedshows you shall be rewarded for something you havedone.aCandy. To dream you are eating candy denotes youwill have a large business in your lifetime and plentyof children.—To a married man or woman, signifies alarge share of patronage in what they are connectedwith.Cards. To drefim you are playing at cards, it denotesthat you will soon he in love. If you hold a greatmany court cards, if you are single, you will soon bemarried and happy.Cat. If any dream that he hath encountered a cat, orthat he hath killed one, he will commit a thief to prisonand prosecute him, for the cat signifies a common thief.If any one dreams that he fought with a cat thatscratched him, denotes some sickness or affliction.Cdl. To dream of you being in a prison cell is a suresign of going a voyage to sea, and that you will havea rough passage, but eventually laud in safety.Chambermaid. To dream you are performing the dutiesof chambermaid is a token of good. If you are in theact of showing a man to bed, your marriage is not faroff, and a good husband you will get. If it be a womanyou are shewing, it denotes trouble; beware of someone not far from you speaking of you as a friend but atraitor behind your back. If children with the womanit is still worse.Chains. To dream that you are in chains shows thatyou will be unfortunate after marriage ; but to dreamyou have another in chains, success in matrimony.Chapel. To dream you are in a chapel and that thereis a large congregation, you will become possessed ofgreat riches before you die. If the chapel be thin, becareful of what you are doing in your daily labour. Ifyou see the priest in the chapel, it is a bad omen, youhad better dream of old beelzebub as the man in the longrobes ; some mishap will befall you before the end ofthe day; and if the priest he not long in the chapelyou will soon get through your difficulties.Cheese. To dream you eat cheese, denotes profit.Cherries. To dream of cherries betokens disappoint¬ments in life, vexations in marriage, falsehood in love,and deceitful pleasure; but if you climb the tree, a surespeedy, and unexpected advancement in life is certainto you.Children. To see a child or children born is a signthat you will be happy in your family. If you see oneor more of them die, you will meet with some misfor¬tune and unhappiness.Clock. To dream that you hear the clock strike showsthat you will be speedily married.Coals. To dream of clear burning coals denotes pro¬sperity, especially in love ; coals in their natural star -indicates trouble and discontent; extinguished coalsannounce the loss of fortune.Com. To dream you are gathering ripe com pro¬mises you success in your enterprise; but if it isblighted or mildewed you will be a great loser.Comets. To dream you see a comet i-s ominous ofwar, plague, famine, and death. To the lover it fore¬bodes an entire frustation of his hopes ; to the farmerfailure of crops ; and to the seaman shipwreck. Aftersuch a dream change your residence.Courting. To dream of courting a beautiful woman,betokens crosses and vexations.Crowns. To dream you are distributing crowns showsthat you will establish your family in a respectablemanner. If yon dream that you receive a crown fromanother, it betokens a large inheritance; crown-piecesare signs of misfortune.Cuckoo. To dream you hear the cuckoo, your sweet¬heart will prove a coquette.Cupid. To dream cupid breaks his dart, your love willchange.—If he breaks his bow you will die an old maid.Currants. To dream of black currants denotes greathappiness in the married state; if you are pullingthem, it is certain you will have a large family, whowill do well; but if the currants are red, beware of falsefriends, those whom you little expect, for they will doyou harm if they possibly can.Dancing. To dream you are dancing at a ball or en¬tertainment foretells you will shortly receive some joy¬ful news from a long-absent friend; to the sailor apleasant and successful voyage; increase of childrento married persons; and those in trade much business,and happy in marriage.Darkness. To think yourself in the dark is a tokenof affliction and loss in trade. To get out of darkness10into sudden light is a sign of rising to eminence, orescaping out of prison.Deaf. To dream of being deaf or in the company of •some one deaf, denotes that you will soon be marriedand have a steady man.—To the married, implies pos¬sessions and success in business, with plenty to workwith.Deer. To dream you see deer in a park, denotes warand famine, to the lover, it foretells some very unpleas¬ant dispute with your sweetheart.Death. To dream you are dead denotes a speedymarriage, and success in all your undertakings ; to themarried it promises young children who will be dutifuland give great comfort: to dream you see another per¬son dead, denotes ill usage from your friends, if youare in love your sweetheart will prove false, if you arein trade sharpers will take you in, if a farmer you willlose money by horses, and be waylaid as you returnfrom market.Demolish. To dream you are destroying anything inthe house, if a joiner or carpenter, you will have troublein your family; and be careful of those who are work¬ing beside you. If a servant be demolishing anything,a fellow-servant near her is scandalising her, and shemust guard against having any connection with youngmen for the present.Dice. To dream you are playing at dice or bacK-gammon, denotes much good to the dreamer, in eitherlove, marriage or trade.Ditches. To dream of deep ditches, steep mountains,rocks, and other eminences, surely foretells danger andmisfortune; that your children will be undutiful andbring you into trouble, if you are in love it foretellsunhappiness if you marry.Doctor. To dream the doctor is in your house andattending some one sick, you will hear cf some oueunexpectedly and that they are doing weil; if the per¬son be very ill, you must beware of those wrho youreceive a letter from; if the person be recovering fromsickness, the letter will prove advantageous to you, andyou will receive more news from them afterward.Dogs. When we dream of dogs that belong to us, itsignifies courage in our pursuits ; but if we dream of11those belonging to other people, it means vindictiveenemies.Debt. To dream you are in debt and pursued bybailiffs indicates that you will fall into some unex¬pected difficulty or danger.Devil. If you see the devil in your dream withoutfear you will get the better of your adversary ; if yonare frightened you will incur some danger.Drowning. To dream you are drowning, or that yonsee another drowned or drowning, portends good to thedreamer; to the lover it denotes that your sweetheartis good-tempered, and inclined to marry you.Eagle. To dream of seeing an eagle soaring high inthe heavens is a good omen to those who have greatundertakings on hand; but to dream that an eaglealights upon us signifies death.Earthquakes. To dream of an earthquake, warns youthat your affairs are about to take a very great change;to the lover it foretells that your sweetheart is about totake a journey, and that it is a very great chance ifyou see each other again.Eating. To dream you are eating denotes success inyour present enterprise. A loathing of victuals is asign of disunion in your family.Eel. To dream you see an eel in the water, if pure,is a good sign of plenty, and betokens good; if muddywater, bad.Embracing. To dream you embrace without power tospeak, denotes the party to fall in love, but shall notobtain the person desired.Enjoyments. To dream you are enjoying yourself withyour friends, betokens you to be very careful in whatyou are doing. To the young woman who is about tobe married, shows that she will have to be very carefulwhat company she keeps, for many pretend friendshipthat are enemies behind her back. To the man in bu¬siness, he must put a guard on what he is doing: thereare some about him doing him a private injury, but bycareful attention he will overcome them and prosper.Evil Spirits. If you see evil spirits in your dream itis a sign of sickness. If you seem to exorcise themand they vanish, you will get over your difficulties.Eyes. If you dream you lose your eyes some friend|12yours ■will die; if you dream of getting new eyes, ormore than the proper number, this shows an increaseof your family.Eye-lash. To dream your eye-lash is red and sore, is 'sickness to yourself or to some of your friends, and ifthe eye be all right and well, the person will soon re- icover. If you dream your lover’s eyes are sore sicknesswill attend you.Face. To dream that your face is swelled indicateswealth and honour; hut if it grows pale and thin you :will be severely disappointed. A black face is a sign of .death.Fall. To dream you fall from any high place or froma tree, denotes loss of place and goods; if you are inlove, it surely indicates you will never marry the objectof your affections.Fields. To dream of crossing newly-ploughed fields :promises some unexpected misfortune to a person whohas no children ; if the fields are covered with corn it 'denotes having children.Fighting. To dream you are fighting, denotes much .opposition to your wishes ; with loss of character andproperty.Finger. If the finger is cut and the blood runs you ;will get money where least expected ; if there is noblood you will have a quarrel or law-suit for money Ipreviously paid.Fire. To dream of this subtle element denoteshealth and happiness to the lover, marriage with afond and sincere partner, and many children. Todream of burning lights descending from heaven is a ivery bad sign ; it portends some dreadful accident,such as being hanged, losing the head, having thebrains dashed out, breaking the legs, &c. To the loverit denotes the loss of the affection of his sweetheart;to the tradesman bad success in business. To dreamyou are burnt shows great danger from enemies; to"the sailor storms and shipwreck. To dream that thebed is on fire betokens loss, sickness, and death. Those \who dream of fire are generally choleric. To dreamyou kindle a fire without trouble shows that yourchildren will be fortunate; but being presently extin¬guished shows dishonour, eepecially to women. To jji13dream of a ship on fire denotes great losses In business.If in the midst of a fire which pains, it betokens eavvand displeasure.Fishing. To dream you are fishing, is a sign of sorrowand trouble; if you catch any fish, you will be suc¬cessful in love and business; if they slip ont of yourhand after you have caught them, it is a sign that somepretended friend will deceive you.Flowers. To dream you are gathering flowers, is avery favourable omen ; and is a sign you will thrive ineverything you undertake; that you will be successfulin love, marry happily, and have beautiful children.Fortune. To dream you make a sudden fortune is abad omen. To the tradesman it forebodes losses,quarrelling with creditors, and loss of liberty.Fruit. Almonds indicate difficulties, loss of liberty,and deceit in love.Funeral. To dream yon are busily employed in bury¬ing a person denotes a very speedy marriage, and thatere long you will hear of the death or imprisonment ofsome near relation or friend.Garden. If walking in a beautiful garden expect anadvance of fortune. If gathering the produce of it youwill be happy in marriage and have many children.Geese. To dream of geese is a sign that an absentfriend will soon return: if they cackle an increase ofbusiness will follow.Gifts. To dream of gifts is a sign that some good isabout to happen to you: it denotes a speedy marriage.Glass. If one dreams he has-a glassful of water givenhim he will speedily be married, and his wife shall soonbe with child. But if the glass is cracked, he mustlook sharp after his wife’s chastity.Gold. If you dream of gold it is a very good omen;it denotes success to your present undertaking, afterencountering numerous difficulties.Gooseberries {\i growing on the busk') denote thatyou will have a numerous family, and great success inyour present undertakings; but if they are baked,great trouble is near at hand, so prepare for a sick bed.Grave. To dream of being put into a grave and buried,notifies.you shall die in poverty.Guns. To dream of seeing or hearing guns foreshows14much adversity; if you are firing them you will enter tinto a quarrel or law suit; if they are fired at you youwill be exposed to great dangers.Hail. Dreaming of hail denotes grief and much sor- 1row.Hair. To dream that you are brushing or combingyour hair portends success in love, trade, or someother pursuit; it also signifies riches. To dream thatyour hair has grown so long that it hangs loose onyour shoulder denotes that one superior to yourselfadores you ; but if the hair is red, it denotes that youhave enemies.Hands. To dream of shaking hands signifies to bothsexes courtship and love.Hanging. Dreaming that you see people hanged, orthat you are to be executed yourself, is a sure sign .that you will by marriage rise above your present posi¬tion, or a favour will be asked by one in needy circum- •stances from you.Hatred. To dream of being hated by friends or ene¬mies, is an ill omen.Horses. To dream of horses is very lucky; if youdream that you see white horses, they denote speedy :news ; if they are black, you may expect to hear of thedeath of an acquaintance.Hills. To dream of going over hills, and wadingthrough many difficulties, and meeting with assistance .on the way, shows you will overcome many troubles.Hunting. To dream you are hunting a hare is a signthat you will be disappointed in the object of yourpursuit, or at least kept long out of it.Ice. To dream of skating or sliding upon ice showsyou will be engaged in some imaginary pursuit thatwill elude you ; if the ice breaks sickness will ensue.Infants. To dream of infants show's trouble and illhealth, except you see them playing; you may thenexpect to receive great satisfaction from a distant part.Iron. To dream you are hurt with iron shows youwdll receive some injury.Key. To dream of losing your key betokens dis¬pleasure; to find one will be an addition to your family;15to give one is marriage; to receive one the birth of achild.Knife. To dream of giving a knife indicates muchcontention. To give one to your intended shows theloss of her—she will cut your acquaintance.King. To dream of talking with the king or queensignifies attaining mnch honour.Kissing. To dream that you kiss a pretty maid indi¬cates good; if she consents without any resistance shewill be true to her lover.Ladder. To dream of climbing a ladder signifiesmuch good, and better circumstances. It also denotesa happy union and riches.Lamb. To dream you feed or bring a young lamb tothe slaughter signifies torment; to dream you see ayoung lamb or kid signifies extraordinary joy andcomfort.Laurel. To dream of seeing a laurel tree shows suc¬cess and pleasure. For a wife to smell a laurel-treeshows she will bear children. If a maid she will besuddenly married.Leaping. To dream you are leaping over anythingdenotes you will fall into difficulties; it also showscrosses in love.Letter. To receive a letter in your dream betokens alegacy or present. If you send a letter you will shortlyrelieve a person in distress.Light. To see a light is good ; to strike a light, gain.Lilies. A sign of a good marriage.Linen. Some impediment on a journey; otherwise,luck.Lian. To dream you see a lion denotes the greatestprosperity and honour.Lice. To dream of lice is a sure sign of sickness;but if seen numerously, riches.Looking-glass. Denotes nothing good, generally death.Mad. To dream you are mad, or in company with amadman is very good; it promises long life, riches,happy marriage and good children.Marriage. To dream you are married signifies thedeath of yourself or some near relation ; to dream youassist at a wedding denotes pleasing news and great16success.; to dream of lying with your wife or husbandthreatens sudden misfortune and great danger.Marry. To dream you marry denotes damage, sick¬ness or melancholy, and sometimes death.Meat. To dream of raw meat denotes trouble of avery severe description; if it is boiled it betokensplenty of work to the tradesman, and plenty to thefamily of the labourer ; to the lover a happy union.Mice. To dream of mice denotes success, love, andhappy marriage.Milk. To dream of milk promises joyful news. Tosee milk flowing from a woman’s breast foretells hap¬piness in children and in business.Mines. To dig mines is a sign of hard work and littleprofit; to see mines fall in signifies misfortune.Miner. To see a miner denotes some unexpectedvisit; to see miners work betokens adversity.Misery. To dream of being miserable, or to seemiseryin others denotes disgrace and affliction.Mixing. To dream of mixing liquors denotes distress.Money. To dream you are paying money denotes •success in your affairs ; to see money, great joy ; toreceive as a present, good marriage; to collect, honour;to give, anger; to dream of having a great deal denoteslosses and sorrow ; to find, unlucky ; if you receive ityou will thrive in your undertakings.Moon. To dream of seeing the moon darkened de¬notes sickness and death. To dream of seeing themoon in the form of a full white face indicates to thevirgin speedy nuptials—to the wife that she will havea handsome “daughter. If the husband dreams it thechild will be a son. To handsome women it is a goodsign to see a full moon, but not so to ugly ones. It isalso ominous to those who are hiding themselves fromthe hands of justice.Monk. Indicates crosses and vexation.Monkies. Signifies sickness, but also great success iulove ; to see them dance is a sign of a favourable timeto buy buildings.Mother. Dreaming you see a mother is very for¬tunate ; to see her dead is a sure sign of illness.Mountains. To see mountains is a sign of great honour,esteem; to ascend, cares; to descend, that something"npieasant is about to happen to you.17Music. To hear music, sorrow.Murder. Is a sign of long life; to imagine you see amurderer, good news.Maid. Dreaming of saluting a young girl is vexation;to quarrel with one, a happy marriage.Myrtle. To dream of the myrtle signifies a wantonwoman—beware then of any lewd woman.Naked. To dream you are naked is a sign of losinga friend, or meeting with disappointment. To dreamof seeing another person naked indicates a great addi¬tion to wealth.Nails. To dream your nails are growing very long isIvery good, and denotes riches, and great use to you.Nakedness. To dream of nakedness denotes scandal;if you see a naked female it is lucky, it denotes that3honour awaits you'at no distant period.Night. To dream you are walking at night foretellsI great vexation.Nuts. To dream of gathering nuts denotes that youi will lose time in pursuit of a trifling matter when youj might employ it much better.Nosegays. To dream of gathering and making nose-8 gays is unlucky, showing that your best hopes shallif wither as flowers do in a nosegay.Nose. Dreaming one has a fair and great nose is>;good to all, for it implies subtilty of sense, providenceSin affairs, and acquaintance with great persons; but todream one has no nose means the contrary ; and to aSsick man, death. If any dream his nose is larger thanordinary he will become rich and powerful, providentn and subtle, and be well received among grandees.C Dreaming one has two noses implies discord and quar-9' rels. If one dreams that his r/ose is grown so big thatJ it is deformed and hideous to the sight, he will live init prosperity and abundance, but never gain the love off; the people. If any one dream his nose is stopped, sothat he has lost his scent, if he be opulent he is in somet: eminent danger from him that hath the greatest autho-ii rity over his person.Oak- To dream you see a stately oak is a sign ofoi long life, riches, and great felicity.■la*18Old. Dreaming of seeing old men is a sign that youwill be very fortunate.Oil. Dreaming you are anointed with oil is veryfortunate for women ; but for men it is ill, and impliesshame.Onions. To dream of onions denotes that a mixtureof good and bad will attend you. Your sweetheart willbe faithful, but of a cross temper.Oranges. To dream of eating oranges implies woundsand great grief.Oxen. If you dream that you see white oxen it showsvirtuous inclination; to see fat or lean oxen signifiespresent gain and good fortune.Oysters. To dream of eating oysters foretells prospe¬rity, and that you will be married to a lady who willlove you.Paper. To dream of paper, is a good omen, but if itappear crumpled, it will give you much pain.Packages. Dreaming of packages of any kind, fore¬bodes uneasiness on account of children.Pain. Dreaming you suffer pain, indicates gladness.Path. To dream you are walking in an easy path,shows that you will be successful in love; or if you aremarried, you will obtain what you now wish for.Paradise. To see paradise, is a sign of some joyfulnews.Parents. To dream of seeing your parents, denotesprosperity and money.Passage. Dreaming of a narrow passage, is riches.Paying. Dreaming of paying a bill of fare is vexation.Peaches. Betokens friends.Pears. If ripe, riches; unripe, adversity; to eat themgood fortune.Peas. Dreaming of peas well boiled, denotes goodsuccess.Pit. To dream you fall into a pit and cannot get outeasily, denotes some serious calamity: that your sweet¬heart is false, andwill prefer another. To the sailor ashipwreck; to the farmer, a bad harvest.Play. To dream you are at play, betokens great hap¬piness in the married state, and increase of business.Pond. To dream you see a pond with clear water init, betokens great success in your undertakings. To a19nald it shows the constancy and affection of her swain,jnd that they will have great prosperity after marriage.! Peacock. To dream of seeing a peacock signifies yon■ill he united to a handsome wife, and become wealthyrad attain great honour.I Purse To dream of finding a purse is a very favour-fble omen ; in love, it is a sure token of a speedy mar-jage ; to dream you lose your purse shows the loss ofc friend.| Quarrel. If you dream you are quarrelling, it shows[treat happiness and contentment.Queen. To dream you see the king and queen, signi-es honour, joy, and much profit.'tin. If you behold rain in your dream, it promises«tt^ess in a love affair; and in all other respects itif etokens trouble and vexation.U Rainbow. To dream you see a rainbow it foretellsIradden and great news.!i Rats. To dream you are attacked by rats and heatnhem shows that some person will try to injury you;iiiut if the rats conquer you, prepare for great misfor-Oe.lavens or Crows. To dream you see a crow or raven_ okens great mischief; it shows falsehood in love,t! Ribbon. To dream yqu wear ribbons shows an en-Hanglement in love to the single; and extravagantnhildren to the married.L Riding. To dream you are riding, if it be with a• voman, is very unfortunate ; if you are in trade, busi-less will decay; hut if it be with men, then expect the•everse will happen, and you will obtain a sum ofnoney by some speculation.Rings. To dream you have a ring on your finger de¬mies marriage to the person you love; but if the ringrop off it betokens death to a near friend.River. Dreaming you see river water clear indicatesjood; but to dream of swimming in the sea when it isnuddy signifies great peril and danger.Rocks. A good dream for those going into business,as it shows great stability there.I Roses. To dream of roses in the season betokensI happiness; in love, that your sweetheart is faithful.20and that you will marry her. If a married lady dreamsaof them she shall shortly be with child of a'son who;1will be a great man.Pdncing. To dream you rinced washed linen is a sure;sign of changing places.Running. To dream you are running from the attackof any animal is a sign that you will encounter greatdangers, and that your lover will prove false.Sailing. To dream you are^sailing in a ship, and the 1water smooth, shows you will succeed in all your under- ■takings ; if you sail in a small boat, and gain the de- *■sired haven, you will gain great riches.Sea. To dream you are walking on the seals good to 1him who would take a wife, for he shall enjoy her.Shipwreck. To dream you are shipwrecked, the shipbeing overwhelmed and broken, is very bad, and showsthat a supposed hatred of friends is groundless; live inpeace with all mankind.Sheep. To dream you see a flock of sheep feeding isa very favourable omen ; to a lover it indicates yoursweetheart to be faithful, of an amiable temper, andinclining to marry. To dream you are among sheepmeans repose from trouble ; to dream you meet a flockis lucky.Shoes. To dream you have a pair of shoes denotessuccess in life; in love matters they signify marriage,which will turn out an equal advantage to both parties.Silk. To dream you are clothed in silk signifieshonour.Silver. To dream of silver shows that you have gotfalse friends, who will attempt your ruin; in love, itdenotes that your sweetheart is false, and that he isengaged to another.Singing. To dream that you are singing, betokenssome melancholy news ; if you are unwell, if shows aspeedy recovery; if in prison, you will soon be setfree.Snow. To dream you see the ground covered withsnow is good, to a young man it shows he will marry avirgin, and have a large family.Soldiers. To dream of soldiers, shows trouble, per¬secutions, and law suits ; if they pursue you, it showsthat you will be disliked by your rich neighbours.Storms. To dream of storms and a troubled sky de¬notes that the person will get angry through the day.Sun. To dream that you see the sun shining, denotesaccumulation of wealth, and filling high situations.Tavern. To dream you are in a tavern feasting withfriends, signifies joy and comfort.Teeth. To dream of losing your teeth, shows the lossof some friend by death, and that great trouble willaccompany you.Telegraph. To dream of the telegraph, denotes tidingsfrom abroad in a short space of time, and still the morespeedily if you think the telegraph is at work.Tempest. To dream that you are overtaken by astorm denotes that you will, after numberless hard¬ships, arrive at happiness, and that you will becomerich, and many a good-natured lady.Thunder and Lightning. To dream of thunder andlightning denotes gain in your business ; but if it hurtsyou it is a sign of some calamity.Toads. To dream you destroy a toad denotes thatyou will discover a thief in whom you have placedgreat confidence.I Tree. To dream you see a withered tree sproutingout denotes children in old age. To dream of cuttingdown trees forebodes heavy losses in business ; to climbthem denotes advancement in divinity.Trumpet. To dream you hear the sound of a trnmpetij denotes trouble and misfortune ; to the lover incon-U stancy in the object of his affections.Walls. To dream you are walking on weak and nar-n row walls shows that you will undertake some danger-o ous enterprise. If you come down without hurt, or the" wall falling, success will follow. If the wall falls after( you will be disapointed ; if you are going between walls" where the passage is very narrow and difficult, you willd be engaged in some disagreeable affair; but if you comeo off from between them and get into an agreeable placev you will afterwards enjoy comfort and riches.Walking. To dream of walking in a dirty place fore-i tells sickness and vexation; to the lover it denotesu unfaithfulness.Water. To dream of drinking water shows trouble22and adversity ; to the lover it denotes that the preten¬sions of your sweetheart are false, he .loves anotherand will never wed you.Wedding. To dream of wedding is very unfavourableto lovers ; it denotes sickness or death of some friendor relation.Wood. To dream you are chopping off wood showsdomestic happiness and riches. To dream of bearingwood on the back indicates affluence resulting fromindustry, but a wife and children of bad temper.Wool. To dream of dealing in wool denotes richesfrom trade. To the lover it is good; his sweetheart isof an amiable disposition, constant, and affectionate.Wound. To dream you are wounded denotes griefand vexation ; if in the stomach or heart shows love.Writing. When dreaming of writing a letter to yoursweetheart, if you put it into the post you will have apleasing return; but to trust it into other hands showsthat your secrets will be exposed.Yellow. To dream of this colour denotes to marriedwomen very great trouble from a female friend, and theloss of her husband’s affections. To the lover it signi¬fies marriage with a virgin.Young. To dream you are young foretells peace,delight, and fruition of desire.Yew Tree. An indication of the funeral of a veryaged person by whose death the dreamer will derivesome benefit, or receive protection from the relativesof the deceased.Yoke. To dream of having to bear the yoke denotesdanger; if it be a woman she will be ready to obey herhusband, and careful to govern her family.Zone. To dream of zones foretells much trouble andvexation. To the tradesman imprisonment and loss ofgoods—to the lover unfaithfulness in his sweetheartand disappointment in his undertakings.bMOLES.A mole on the neck of man or woman, doth promisethe or she shall become rich.| A mole on the lower part of the neck promises theytwill be married.A mole on the lower part of the right side of the nosesignifies long and tedious sickness, a weak constitutionand infirm.A mole on the left side of the breast threatens po¬verty, ill-fortune, and the displeasure of superiors.A mole on the throat, on the left of the gullet,threatens a danger of life by water.A man having a mole on the left side, towards theipper part of the corner of the eye, will experiencenuch sickness, if honey coloured or red these sorrowsire somewhat moderated ; hut if black a short lifethrough a fall or by drowning ; if it rises above the skinis a wart it promises good end.A mole near the side of the chin shows an amiablelisposition, industrious, ingenious, and fond of travel¬ing.A mole on the left side of the mouth denotes vanityand pride, and an nnlawful offspring to provide for.!; A mole on the middle of the forehead, black, shows a1 >erson guilty of many criminal things through luxury.I A mole on the right breast denotes riches and pros-llerity.| A mole on the upper side of the right temple shows au nan shall have a hearty and long life, and good fortune.I A mole on the middle of the breast denotes a person1 a cruel and sullen disposition.V A person having a mole on the top of the bridge of■ lie nose, between the eyes, discovers them to be enemies24of their own peace, and will be afflicted with grea. .hostility.A mole on the left cheek causeth a man molestations..A mole on the right side or corner of the mouthshews increase of wealth and fortune by their own in •dustry.A mole on the middle of the forehead shows a manto suffer much ill-fortune through mischievous women.A mole on the lower part of the neck inclines aperson to he addicted to evil more than good.A person having a mole on the right side of the chindenotes a good understanding and great ingenuity.A mole on the middle of the chin denotes greatwealth.A mole on the right side and upper part of the breastshews a person will gain a fortune by a lottery.^ A ■