MFE,AND DEPREDATIONSA D VENTURES,TKB SfCURDEREB.,dated by himself, while under the Sentence of Death.WITH ANAccount of his ExecutionEdinburgh, July 18, 1821, for the Murder of Mor-i rin, one of the Turnkey» of Dumfries Jail, andA COPY OF VERSES,\ritten by Haggart in his Cell the Day after hiPAISLEY:NTED BY CALDWELL & SON, 2, NEW STREET,. A M. v, nmv. ■ <Si\& vA i •» m V->.Vv ;\V tiA \ti V.3WAi«*. HT!WaetinsexM Bid 1' IcxxoddA.; »*to^ *\o -«\rtwVi «o\ ,I£31 ,81 \lW\. ^-u^kiVvI 4bfto ,\io\. '\c m^mT »i\Ap ; ko ^.aae^csv tto -st^od A, . i\ v ,(i aM V\0 v\i nt V* \;.>tt\\ \p\ miVnrY.UBIA^v; /iMrraTd wan tS (Woa i.iawGJAO Ya dax^nfl^ - • -.<rK’8 ?LIFE OF( AVi:i> MACr€rAMT.DAVID HAGGART was born at aI Farm town, called the Golden Acre, near: Cannon Mills, Edinburgh on the 24th ofJune, 1801, his father was a gamekeeper,ibut afterwards a dog trainer. He was earlyi put to school, where he acquired a good know¬ledge of English grammar, writing, and arith¬metic. About the age of ten, a trifling acci¬dent occurred at home, which, for fear ofpunishment from his father, determined himto leave home, and from that moment he datedIthe commencement of his sinful career. HeiShad made no wicked acquaintance as yet, but[committed several depredations by himself.The first of these was stealing a bantum_ o)t sell it; he fell on the scheme of puttingmther cock of his own a-fighting, and thenime off with his prize. His next was liftingshoptill from a poor woman in Stock Bridge,eing some miles from town and tired, hel ck from a woman at the back of the Newown, Edinburgh. Having taken a fancy tohe offered to buy it, but the woman would; nounted a poney which was grazing on the4road side, and rode home, where he kept itfor some time in an outhouse, where he hadformerly kept a cuddie; he kept it there forseveral days, until the owner found it out byaccident. At Leith Races, in 18IS. he en¬listed in the Norfolk Militia, and learned thedrum and bugle-horn ; the regiment was dis¬banded in about a year afterwards, and hewas discharged. His father was then livingin the south back of the Cannongate, Edin¬burgh, and he went home, when he was putas an apprentice to the millwright and en¬gineering business, with Cockburn and Baird,in the Cannongate, where he behaved withhonesty, and was very well liked by his em¬ployers.His master having given up business hewas of course thrown idle, and at this time ;got acquainted with many worthless charac¬ters, among whom was one Barney, an Irish¬man, who had been bred a tailor in Dum- ,fries; he was older than Haggart, of great r,bodily strength, and a most skilful pick- ,pocket.—Barney put him up to a number oftricks, and they agreed to travel together,in August, 1817i when just on the point ofgoing to England, they past a day at Porto-bello Races, and picked a gentleman’s pocketof eleven pounds, the first ever Haggart at- ,tempted in day-light; with this they tookoutside plac ^'got themselves genteelly dressed. They at¬tended St. James’s fair at Kelso, and pickedtwenty pounds from two persons. Fromithence they went to Dumfries, and stoppedifthree weeks; they attended Lockerby fair,■ and going into a public-house, a farmer and3rover were casting out, when Barney blewe :he coal, and they fell a fighting, and bothi ;umbled. Barney picked the farmer’s pocket)f twenty-three pounds. Haggart called for-he waiter, and appeared in a violent passion,uaid for a bottle of porter, abused him forjoutting them into such company, and im-1 nediately left the house. They departedfext morning, and went to Langholm fair,here they took from a sheep farmer ^ 100n ten pound notes, and .§£.10 in twenty shil-j ing notes. About half an hour after, they■I'raw John Richardson, a Dumfries officer,gunning about, but he did not notice themrjThey took a post-chaise, and went to Annan,imd next day took the coach for Carlisle.1 On other nights they got two gold wat¬ches ; they took about seventy pounds ini’hole during their stay in Newcastle. Theypen went to Durham, and at night broke anely house on the road to York; they gotenty pounds here. They were appre-f ended for this act, tried, and found guilty,: nd sent back to prison, to be brought upr sentence of death at the end of the as •f>sizes.—They broke the prison that night*but Haggart only escaped ; he profidjtl him¬self with a rope-ladder, and gate the saw to:Barney, who made his escape that same night.When Haggart was coming to Durham fromYork with his saw in company with a Yorkpickpocket, they were pursued by two con¬stables ; and just as one was apprehendingHaggart, he laid him low with his pistol.—They got clear away, and he never knewwhether the man was murdered or not, butthe thought so. They next went to CoId-|(stream fair, and Barney being found attempt-ing a farmer’s pocket, got three months in 11Jedburgh jail. Haggart went to Newcastle1again, and to the same lodgings, where he:'was treated like a son ; little did the people :know who they were so kind to. He did;numerous tricks here, and then proceeded! •to Edinburgh, where he carried on the sameline, but did not live in his father’s house. jiIn September he started for Perth, withone Henry, and had some adventures. 1 heyreturned to Leith, and were taken by thei opolice for some crimes; got bail, and were:liberated.Haggart had a number of adventures iniEdinburgh and neighbourhood, and was put:four months in Bridewell. After being re- sleased, he met with some of his companions,,and took a trip through the North: he was:-7in Aberdeen jail for some time, and afterCommitting more depredations, he returnedto Edinburgh.' They broke into several houses in Edin*iburgh and Leith, and on New-year’s morn¬ing, 1820, Haggart had for his share five’ ilver watches and a gold one, taken on theliouth and North bridges. He remained inlEdinburh till the 18th, when he was takenip and put into the Lock-up house to findhail. He got out and one night paid a visitthe Lock-up-house, and gave tbe keepermuch drink, that he got the key, and li-nerated six prisoners.He went to Leith the night following andook lodgings in Cupar Street, and livedll/ith a woman of the town. While here heirommitted various acts in Leith, Edinburgh,und neighbourhood, by tying some shop-cnoors, and thrusting his hand through thed/indows and grasping whatever goods lay iniis road, breaking into numerous houses,kicking pockets of watches, &c.—In theBourse of these operations he removed tolijifferent lodgings.I1; On the first of March, while sitting in hisJpdgings with a pick-pocket of the name ofi Wrest, in Johnston Street, North Leith,JCaptain Ross, of the police, and one of hisicn, came in upon them ; Ross seized For-jst and carried him off, leaving Haggart in8charge of the policeman. When left alone,the policeman opened a bed-room door, andwas looking into it, when Haggart forcedhim in, locked the door, and was makinghis way down the stairs, when he was metby Ross and another policeman ; a strugglecommenced, but the two overpowered Hag¬gart, and he was carried to the Police-officestreaming with blood. He was kept heretwo days, and then put into the jail to standtrial—On the 27th March he got a smallfile, and cut the chains off his legs penetratedthrough two thick walls with his handcuffsliberated Forrest, and got to the outsideabout five o’clock next morning. When onthe outer stair, he saw a man coming upQueen-street, and he prepared to give him abattle ; but the man only said, “ Run, Hag¬gart, run, I won’t touch ye.” Haggart tookhold of Forrest’s hand, and ran even on toDalkeith, without stopping. He staid thereall night, and stole twelve yards of blue cloth,started at two o’clock next morning forKelso, robbed a farmer of four pounds, andset off for Dumfries. They were joined bytwo other pickpockets, one of whom washanged shortly after at Glasgow.In Dumfries he picked several pockets, andentered several dwelling-houses, when he fellin with his old friend Barney M’Guire, ne¬ver having seen him since they parted at Kelsoc;3i9jin 1818. Thegr were intending to leaveDumfries that night, but Barney was takendip. Haggart started for Carlisle next morn¬ing, but was overtaken and carried back to.'Dumfries. Captam Ross arrived in a fewdays and carried him back to Leith jail.Barney was transported for fourteen years.; {Haggart was tried at Edinburgh on the 12thtaf July, but got off; he was then sent toi Dumfries, to stand trial at the circuit there•ifor housebreaking: his trial did not go on,md he was sent back to jail—Here he got"acquainted with a lad, John Dunbar, whoiwas under sentence of transportation. Hei dso got acquainted with some people be¬longing to the town, who seemed willing todo him a favour: so Haggart made the planbf four keys, and a person was to get themjlnade for him, there being four doors be¬twixt his cell and the street. Having thus,as he thought, secured his liberty, he was:noo easily led into another scheme with Dun-ibar. Haggart thought himself certain of hisl)wn liberty, but he thought it would be aI’rrand thing to clear the jail of all the prison-airs. Laurie, another prisoner, proposed get-r ing a stone, and tying it in a napkin, andiiome morning to knock down Hunter, the;iiead jailor, and take the keys from him.Taggart was not fond of using the stone, aste did not want to hurt the jailor j and he10proposed, when l homas Morrin came up tothe man under sentence of death, to gag himinto a closet at the head of the stairs, andtake the keys from him ; Dunbar and someothers got the stone and put it into a bag.—On Tuesday, the 10th of October, abouttwelve o’clock, they noticed Hunter, thehead turnkey, leave the jail to attend theRaces, and shortly after, Morrin came upwith two ministers, whom he locked in thecell with M'Grory, who was under sentence Vof death.—Shortly after, Haggart placed him-®self in the closet at the head of the stairs,where he had previously put the stone andbag. Dunbar then called up Morrin to letout the ministers. He came up accordinglywith a plate of potatoe-soup for M'Grory,and when he got up to the top of the stairs,Haggart came out upon him from the closet,and the pushing open of the door knockedthe plate out of his hand; he then struckhim one blow with the stone, dashed himdown, and without the loss of a moment,pulled the key of the outer door from hispocket; he gave only one blow with thestone and threw it down. Dunbar picked itup, but no more blows were given, so thatMorrin must have received his other blowsin falling. Haggart observed Dunbar on thetop of him, rifling his breast for the keywhich he had got. Simpson had a hold ofkK11Morrki’s siioukiers, and was beating his backHaggart rushedas steadily as hehis pocket, andj jipon the steps of the stair,ast them, crossed the stairouW, pulled the key frompened the outer door.On getting out at the door he ran roundhe east corner of the jail wall, and thentalked rapidly round the back street, and’ound a great part of the town, till he came;o the back of the King’s Arms Inn. Dun-iar made up to him, and that very momenthey saw a policeman coming right up toneet them ; on this they wheeled about and■an, but Dunbar was taken before he ran,en yards, and Haggart had the mortification:o see his fellow adventurer secured. Henice thought of boltingamongthem to res-s^ue him, but the mob was too great for him.;i de went up through the yard of the King’slArms without meeting any body, crossedaihe High Street, and ran down the Vennelto the Nith. He kept along the watersideHill he got away to the east of CumlungandVVood, having run nearly ten miles in lessthan an hour. He then got on the highroad to Annan, when he saw a post chaise atFull gallop almost within twenty yards oflim. Upon this he buttoned his coat, andeapt a hedge into a field where some peopleijvere raising potatoes. They all joined the:iholice-man, who had got out of the chaise12in pursuit of him ; lie crossed the field at aslapping pace, and made for CumlunganWood, he bolted over a very deep ditch co¬vered with briars, and ran a few steps alongthe side of the hedge, to make the police¬men think he was going into the wood; hethen wheeled round, louted, and when theywent up one side of the ditch he ran downthe other; little did they know he was sonear them, he could have breathed uponJohn Richardson as he passed him. In thisway he came to the cross road, which leadsfrom the Nith to the public road and never |did a fox double the hounds in better style.He then made for Annan ; and getting Jj,on a mile or two on the Carlisle road, he iwent into a belt of planting. Watching anopportunity, he dived into a hay-stack, andlay there till next day at two o’clock in theafternoon, when he heard a woman ask a oboy if that lad was taken who had broke :out of Dumfries jail. The boy answered »*No ; but the jailor died last night.’ On hear- |i(ing this, Haggart lay insensible for a goodwhile. He left the stack, and seeing a scare¬crow in a field, he took some of the old itclothes, and put them on to disguise himself.On the Wednesday night he slept in a hay ?loft; in the morning two men were feeding ttheir horses, and he overheard them speak¬ing about him; he started for Carlisle, and ;113then to Newcastle, where he stopped for•;6orae days and along wifh one Fleming, pick¬ed in the market from a man ; here he’Massed close to Richardson, who was in quest)f him, but was not noticed. He left New¬castle for Scotland; got upon the Berwick^oach; then took a ticket for Edinburgh,mt went only to Dunbar. Next morninget off for Edinburgh, where he met with atentleman, and took the same lodgings withim in the Lord Duncan Tavern, Cannon-jifate. After separating from the gentleman,: ite stopt at Jock’s Lodge with a friend ; while' ere he visited his father and some acquaint-nces, disguised in woman’s clothes. Oneight, dressed in his own clothes, taking aalk from Portobello to Leith, he met Capt.oss of the Leith police : their eyes met andth stood motionless, till Haggart feignedpull a pistol from his breast. Ross know-g him too well before, quickly took to hisels ; and Haggart instantly turned throughre fields, and made to Jock’s Lodge. Thenossing the Forth, he went through Cuparb Dundee, disguised in sailor’s clothes:—isere he committed a number of depreda-tbns; then returned to Newhaven, and wentr to Edinburgh. Here the first thing hew was a bill posted up, offering 70 guineasward for his apprehension. This determin-him to go north again. He arrived in14Dundee, and from thence went to Perth, andattended the fairs in Perth, Dunkeld, Ken-more, &c. and robbed some cattle-dealers to aconsiderable amount. One night, in his lod¬gings in Perth, two police-men came in uponhim, but the determined manner in which hereceived them, made them hesitate in appre- jlbending him, and Haggart gained an oppor-<1tunity to escape. He left Perth for Glasgow,and made up his mind to go to Ireland, andstarted in the steam-boat, //ere he was re^jjcognized by the Provost of Kircaldy, who'lwent ashore at Lamlash : //aggart was readyto jump overboard, but the boat went o:without the Provost. He landed in Belfast;where he attended fairs, &c. and was incontinual scenes of robbing, knocking down,&c.—At Drummore market he was seized &taken before a magistrate. When asked whatname he had, lie answered, in high Tipper¬ary, it was John M‘Colgan, from ArmagHHe was cross-examined, and shewn a Dublinpaper, with a description of his person, &c.He denied being a Scotsman, and passed olthe brogue so well, that the magistrate wasin doubts, but he was ordered to be detained,and three yeomen sat in the court house tcguard him. He plied them so well with drinkthat he prevailed on them to let a youngwoman bring him some supper; and wheishe came, he got leave to speak with her pci115ately behind the boxes of thi court, wherehere is a large window, lie bolted rightrough the window without being hurt bye fall; he crossed the street, and got into• n entry, where he saw his keepers below theit'indow staring at each other. He started■br Belfast, and then to Dublin, and paid bist assage for America at the Pigeon house :lut meeting with one called O’Brien, hepanged his mind ; here he robbed a man ofbO guineas in gold, and jaunted through thePuntry in cars with women of bad fame,/e was taken up for robbing a drover at Down-itrick, and put into jail, where he saw moreenes of wickedness than ever he had wit-ssed all his life. The women’s room wasmediately above the men’s, and eight days’ovisions was served out to them at one: they blocked up the doors, made ale betwixt the two apartments, and keptssession in the most riotous manner. Be-re his trial he bribed the drover not toear he was the person, and he was ba¬shed for seven years. In jail he was visitedthe magistrate of Drummore who orderede jailor to put him in strong irons,i^aggart denied that he had ever been inrummore, and said his name was O’Brien,d not M'Colgan. He was moved to Kil-: ainham jail among other criminals; heremade his escape, but was caught, by someIfiof the prisoners informing the jailor of hisdesigns.Next day the tvhole of the prisoners werecalled out into the court- yard, and in a fewminutes John Richardson from Dumfriesmade his appearance, and began his examin¬ation. Hq passed him once, but upon tsecond look over he recognised him, and said,Davie, do you ken me j i/aggart turned tothe jailor, and in a master piece of Irishbrogue, said, What does the man say? Don’tyou know him, was the answer; he said hedid not; but John persisted that he did. Onthe second day he was put in irons, and con¬ducted by John and an Irish Officer to Dum¬fries. They were three days and three nightson the road, and he experienced great kind¬ness from the officers. On their approach toDumfries, thousands of people met them withtorches in their hands. From Dumfries hewas conveyed to Edinburgh jail, and placedunder the care of Captain Sibbald, who, hesaid, was the kindest jailor in the world. Hewas tried on the 11th of June, and the jurygave in a verdict of guilty. When the judgewas passing the sentence, he said he grew dizzyand gasped for breath. He was carried backto jail, where he behaved in the most penit¬ent manner, and wrote a history of his life for ythe benefit of his father, from which this;narrative is a faithful extract.THE FOLLOWING SONGRVVas made by Haggart the day after his con-iemnation; but his mind soon changed to a moreterious subject, and his whole deportment wasfterwards extremely pious and resigned.v Able and willing you will me find,' Though bound in chains still free in mind ;For with these things I‘ll ne'er be griev'd,Although of freedom I'm bereav'd.In this vain world there is no rest,And life is but a span at best;The rich, the poor, the old, the young,Will all lie low before ‘tis long.1 am a rogue, 1 don't deny,But never liv'd by treachery :To rob a poor man 1 disown—But only them of high renown.Nowr for the crime that l‘m condemn'd.The same 1 never did intend :Only my liberty to take,As 1 thought my life did lie at stake.My 1 ife by perjury was sworn away,I'll say that to my dying day ;Oh ! treacherous S , you did me betray,For all 1 wanted was—liberty.No malice in my heart is found,To any man above the ground :Now, all good people that speak of me,You may say 1 died for my liberty.ISAlthough in chains you see me fast,No frowns upon my friends pray cast:For my relations were not to blame,And 1 brought my parents to grief and shame.Now all you ramblers in mourning go.For the prince of ramblers is lying low;And all you maidens who love the game,Put on your mourning hoods again.And all your powers of music ehaunt,To the memory of my dying rant;A song of melancholy sing,Till you make the very rafters ring.Farewell relations and friends also,The time is nigh when 1 must go,As for foes, 1 have none but one,But to the same l‘ve done no wrong.EXECUTIOH'.Early on the morning of his execution,, if.David Haggart joined earnestly in devotional ,texercise with his ministerial attendant. Afterthe chaplain of the jail had given a prayer,,one of the officers of justice appeared, and!ordered all the persons in the room to retire,,as he had something to communicate to the:unhappy prisoner. Haggart immediately ex¬claimed, in a hurried tone, “O! I supposeit is the executioner.” His firmness for amoment abandoned him, and he walked rap-jdly across the cell with his arms folded, andivith dark and deep despair strongly paintedi^n his countenance. He speedily, however,regained his composure: and when the exe-icutioner appeared, at once allowed his armsi o be bound : he was then removed to a hall1 n the lower part of the Lock-up-house, whereae was received by two of the clergymen ofjEdinburgh, and the magistrates. After pray-. [rs the procession proceeded to the scaffold.—fhe conduct of the unfortunate youth there|ps in the highest degree becoming. While:ihe beneficial influence of religion was ap-• larent in his whole demeanor, his naturalllrmness of character never for a moment for-ook him. He kneeled down, and utteredn earnest prayer; and after addressing a fewuvords of deep and anxious exhortation to the'i;reat multitude by which he was surrounded,lie met his fate with the same intrepiditydiich distinguished all the actions of his shortut guilty and eventful life.| Kaggart terminated his mortal career one gallows in the 21st year of his age.—"hough young in years, he was old in in-imy ; and Ids story unfolds as undeviatingcourse of wickedness as ever disgraced hu-Cftan nature; it was related at various times20by himself, while under sentence of death ;and thus, though the remembrance of the evilhe committed survives him, unfortunately ncgood is recorded of him, excepting his, wehope, not too late repentance. His adven¬tures fall far short of those of Barrington,Vaux, &e.—he must be classed as the hero o)a humbler sphere, without the atrocity tha!marks a kind of criminal grandeur, and de'mands abhorrent vengeance, while lesser vi|lanies only contemptuous stripes. He committed, however, at least one murder, that o;Morrin, the turnkey of Dumfries jail, foiwhich he suffered the merited sentence of tinlaw. He never appears to have wanted cour j,,age in any of the appalling incidents or dangers to which his turpitude exposed him.He was tall in stature, and of a commanding aspect; limbs so flexible, that they coulofturn any way at pleasure, and legs thatitspeed resembled the deer when first startetlfrom its native plains.He mentioned some peculiar circumstancesfan over-hasty birth, and two teeth when bornwith an unusual forwardness of intellect an*speech. Surely they were gifts not to be miused. On one of his apprehensions, beinunder close confinement in Edinburgh, Ink‘Pfosaid, “I cannot help it; I was born forMSthief; look at my fingers, they are all of ajequal length, like the prongs of a fork, an.21us they never fail me.” This was true;s fingers reached all to one exact length,{'cl is rather curious, but by no means sin-ti}ar, or as being confined to that individual,jjl gentleman present, who was esteemed forif researches in philosophy and nature said,[My lad, make a good use of your long-fork-i!| fingers, as many have done before you ;i e of the best emperors that ever lived hade like, and so had a celebrated professor ©f-usic; the one was a virtuous, just, enligh-ped, and most exalted sovereign ; and theher, what Pope terms, a noble work—anfiest man ; and I could quote several othermples.”—Haggart only sneered at the re-•k and advice, joined together, and said,ate was fate.”--An unhappy conclusion,too many out of the right line, who letdings come and go as they will, and neverlit their shoulders to the wheel, but accuseliedestination of all their wants and woes.5 Haggart gives the following account of hisbits and the peculiar vices which markeds character, describing also some of those:cious characters by whom he was initiateddo all the mysteries of iniquity.1 “I never was given to drink, further thani it promoted fun in society ; but 1 was inor-imately fond of raffles, cards, and dancing,d this led me to the company of loose fe-j ales, that caused my ruin; and all I got I22-Krrit:spent profusely on them. Constancy was not.my motto ; like the grand Seignior, I threwmy handkerchief first to one, and then to an¬other, as fancy prompted ; and my characterfor generosity urged them to meet me more:than half way—A good disposed woman maywork miracles with a man who loves her; but,alas for me! I only loved the reverse of allthat is virtuous, and those who for moneywould chat and advise me in iniquity. Ohthe other hand, my male companions learnedme to be expert in sin; I grew in to such astate, that 1 dared not to think or reflect,night or day j 1 looked backward upon folly,and forward with dread j I was ashamed toqlook my parents and relations in the face, andand I fatally quitted my home. Oh ! my poormother, how bitterly she took on ! but 1 waslost to all feeling—the devil had the upperhand of me.“ My most dangerous associate was a youngman named Barnard M’Guire, an Irishman,,who went amongst us by the slang appellation1of the Darling of a Boy; though of thesister kingdom, he was apprenticed to a tailorat Dumfries, but preferred the profession of!a pick-pocket: he was tall, athletic, andlcourageous, and became my instructor in the: jscience ; in short, he was clever at every thing,,and always gave me fair play as to my sharebut we sometimes played the double on our23ompanions, even Barnard’s own brother, whotvas also a thief.”Haggart, in his remarks in prison, cautionedibersons against needlessly and carelessly ex-3nosing their money to view. One examplefie gives is as follows:—We observed a gentle-i nan, one morning, with a heap of notes in; n’s hand, coming out of a banking-house,it was my turn to follow him. I did so,i rom place to place, without any chance offer-'! ng ; something or another intervened, and it3-vas full five in the evening before I couldake a snatch at him ; and then, to my greatisappointment, I got only eleven pounds.Te must have been paying it away, for it wasthe very identical case I had seen him putO'he notes in the morning. While he was en¬gaged in close conversation with a gentleman,II slipped past and robbed him so expertlyihat he was quite unconscious of the act.When committed to Downpatrick jail, Hag-frart gives the following account of it:—“I soon fouud my fellow prisoners a queerlet of lads. They had all \he\r jartcy womenl|nd I was not long behind them in that re-ipect. One lodged above me whom I took arijancy to, and used, through a hole in the topmy cell, to hand her up meat and liquor,‘md a part of every thing 1 had.“dhe prisoners- were here served out athree days’ allowance at a time. One mor-24insr, after having received our usual supply,my fellow-prisoners and I agreed to block uflthe passage that led to our apartments, andbreak through to the women—They began tcblock up the doors with benches and tables,but I did not approve of that way, and begaEwith the coal-spade to lift up the flags of thffloor, and they all assisted me, and we barricaded the door so completely that the jailorcould not get at us. We then broke througBto the females, and served their doors the samf|and kept the premises two whole days, durinwhich time we gave way to every wickednessand, of all the depraved scenes of my shotand sinful life, none came up in licentiousnesto the jail of Downpatrick. After this perioof riot, we were broke in upon and secured] was ironed and locked up in a cell, and kepin confinement till the day previous to mtrial.“Alas! a prison is the blackest and wonconducted place in the world; many a poclad is brought to the gallows at last, becaushis first offence is punished by imprisonmentthis teaches him evil ways; whereas, if he habeen soundly flogged, and sent home to h:friends or parents, he might have turned oia good man. I cannot say my bad habitwere learned in jail; but this I can affirmthey were confirmed there.