Worm jACOfeThreftiing the MOUNTAINSSERMON.Preached on a Sacramental Occafion.!   By the REVERENDMr. THOMAS BOSTON,Late Minider of the Gofpel at Ettrick.ISAIAH xli. 14, 15.form Jacob, thou Jhalt threfb the Mountains,and beat them fmall, and Jhalt make the Hillsas Chajf.***•*•5-GLASGOW:finteu and Sold by J. & J. ROBERTSON,M, DCC, LXXVL(Price One Penny.)( 2 )A S E R M O N.Preached on a SACRAMENTAL OCCASION,From Isaiah, chap. xli. ver. 14, 15.Tear mt, thou Worm Jacob, and ye men of Ifrael, /•will help thee faith the Lord, and thy Redeemer, theholy One of Ifael Behold, I will make thee a newJharp threfhin% inflrument, having teeth thou fhaltthrefh the mountains and beat them fmall, and Jhallmake the hills as chaffRF LIG I O N is a myftery, and the truly religi¬ous are a myftery too.—They are a myftery tothe world, John iii.^i. The world knoweth us not; yet(to tbemfelves) ver. 2. it doth not yet appear what weJhall be, that is a matter not' of fight and feeling, butfaith. There are many odd connexions, and whichpeople would think contradiftions and impoffibilitiesla the charafter.—See a cluftcr of them, 2 Cor. vi. 10. jJs unknown, and yet well known ; as dying, and be¬hold, we live; as chaflened, and not killed; as forrow-ful,. yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many \rich: as having nothing, and yet poffeftng all things.— IThat is a firange connexion, an old man and a new!man in one man ; but not more ftrange and lurprif-jing than this in the text,—a worm threfhmg the moun-and that not ridiculoufly without effeft, butmofl: cfficacionfiy beating them finall.- In thefewords we have two things.I. Whar the church and people of God are.—Theyare'named by him (who mifhamcs none) worm Jacob:their name from his nature is a worm; they are poor,weak, defpifed creatures, ready to be crufhed by thefoot of every pa(T!-ngeryer worm Jacob, believing,1praying, and wrefi ing worm as he is —7 _ ■II. What they (hill certainly and infallibly do|threfl) the mountains and beat them Jmall, &c. h/ ( 1 finofWorm JACOB threfhing th; Mountains. 3I find interpreters generaltyunderftnnd by the monti'tains, the great and lofty potentates of the eaith fcttingthenfielves againtl the church : and, no doabt, thefe•were, in the prophet’s view ; but, the view was notconfined to them only, God’s bringing down the Ba¬bylonian monarchy at their prayers, and the viftoriesafterwards of the Maccabees over their enemies, can-*not reafonably be fuppofed to complete the intent Ofthis prophecy.— We muff needs look to the kingdomof Chrrft for it, of which there is plainly an account,chap. xvii. 16, ty. compare with Dan. ii. 54, 55. andwe muft carry on our view all along 10 the.end of time,Rev. ii. 26, 27. -The rather, that is the way of theprophet, to wrap up in one expreflion, temporal, fpiri-tual and eternal deliverance: the deliverance from Ba¬bylon, which was temporal, being the firft and nearefi:in view.—Ifa. xxvi. 19. Thy dead [hall live, &c,—-butnot terminating it.—Here then we may confider,1. What worm Jacob has to encounter or yoke with,—mountains and hills, whole weight is fufficient tocrufh millions of him, difficulties quite difproportion*able to his ftrength, as a mountain to that of a worm.2. The fuccefs of this very unequal match : themountains ffiall not crufh the worm, but the wormfhali threfh the mountains as one doth a fhcaf of corn,with repeated flrokes —They did not threfh their cornin thole days with Hails as we do, but trode it out withthe feet of men or beafts, or elfe by drawing a kindof cart, drag, or fledge, over and over it, called in-thetext, threfhing inflruments,—\ do not mind the wordhere denoting the aftion of the worm, and renderedthrefhing, applied at ail to the drag But as it former¬ly lignifies to tread out, as rendered, Hofea x. 11. Eph¬raim is an heifer that is taught, and loveih to tread,out corn : as appears from Ifi.inh xxi. 10 For in thismountain [hall the hand of the Lord ref, and lUcabfhallbe trodden- down itnder him, even as Jltraw is troddenajar for the dunghill—So it is applied to a fc.f-rn&v-4 Worm JACOB threjhlng the Mountains.ing creatine man, Micah iv. 13. Arife and threjh, 0daughter of Zion (or breafl) Here lies the myfte*ry, then uniting the two nations of the felf-move, andthe inftruments that thewsrw (hall tread out the moun¬tains as one would do a molehill.-———And if ye fay*alas! ftsch a treader, what weight has it? I will make(iaith the Lord) the feet of the belly of the worm, likea new-(hod threfhing drag tfor them) that (hall treadout the hightft and rockiefl of them all to purpole.3. The degree and pitch of the worm’s fuccefs a- 'Jgainft thofl mountains: it Jhall beat them /mail tillthey be like dufl. as the word is ufed, Dent ix. 1. orlike chajf So that they (hall be blown away withwind, and no veflage of them remain.4. The infurance of this fuecefs of the "worm, whocould infure it but the mighty God ? he has done it,JESUS CHRIST JEHOVAH, the moft high God,and the -worm Jacob’s kinfman Redeemer, hath, by hisword of promife, engaged his Almighty power on thefide of the worm againfi the mountains —Let not theworm fear or doubt the fuccefs. A worm, lecondedby Jetus Chrift, will be an over-match for all the moun¬tains and hills letting up their heads from earth to hell.Doctrine. The my fiery of grace carried on byJefus Chrift‘in his church and people, is like aworm threfhing the mountains, infallibly to iffucin it threfbing them away quite and clean -Briefly worm Jacob Jhall threfh the mountains3and threfh them away quite and clean.H.-re we (hall coniider,I. The charafter of the fu1 jett, wherein this my-flery of grace is carried on by Jelus.II. The myftery of grace carried on in them by Jefus.III. I (h dl account for th;3 myflcry, wo. m Jacobthrefhing the mountains of difiicuties in his way, andthrefhing them away qui e and clean.IV. Apply.firfl, I (hall confider the character of the fabjcft, _w hereinWorm JACOB threjhing the Mountains. 3wherein this myftery is carried on hy Jefus Chrift —It is the -worm Jacob, denoting the church in general,and every believer or true member thereof in parti¬cular, for of thefe the church confiQs, as in thf text,ver. 1 3 Without the fuppletnent, Fear not thou -wormJacob, and ye menoflfrael. One would think, thatone defigned to be a threlber of the mountains, fhouldbe a party of a tingle, great, and fuelling charafhr, ahero, a giant, or if there were any thing could carrythe character higher; but, on the contrary, it is verylow, tbrprifing low, •worm Jacob. This charterpoints at thefe five things; efpecially in the cafe of thepeople of God It points them out as,1. Weak creatures, really weak for the encountershey mufl make as a worm for a mountain   Godhimfelf gives them this name of extreme weakncls,they mull be fo indeed ! They have weak heads, hearts,and hands, for the work they are called to.—Not onlydoes the fiifl grace only find them really weak, but theatter fupplies of grace aifo. Hcb. xi. 34. Gut oj weak*ngfs were made Jirong.a. Humbled louis truly fenfible of their own weak-efs By nature they were fvelling vipers, but byace they arc humbk-d worms. And,Firfl, Habitually humbled in refpecl of their fate,the creeping worm, whole nature it is to go on hisbe iy.—So the humble and the gracious are equivalentrms, Pfak xxxiv. 2, 3. My foul fiall make her boaflthe Lord, the humble jbail hear thereof and be glad,c > agnify the Lord with me, and exalt his name toge¬ther.—1 here is a law-work followed with golpd gracew,-ought on them, ifluing in a thorough humiliation,bleating down their natural felf-conceit, tumblingdown their towering imaginations about themfelves,! h they had in their ftate of blindnefs, bringingu in their own eyes from the ccnfiftence of moun-ii.to that of worms, and convincing them they ate,i'-'and car. da nothing.—Luke xv. \y, 1 Cor, x. 4,5.A.k/ aO.dt")6 Worm JACOB threjking -the Mcuntairs.lay, A finally hunibled in refpeifl' of their frame an ^the worm fiill retains its creeping way on the moun¬tain as in the valley, fo Cod’s people do difficulties tobe happily furmoimred, fHil keep up the ienfe of theirown utter emptinefs and weaknels for them. 2 Cor. hi.5" tka! tee are fufficient of ourfeIves to think anything of (urfelves, hut our Juffciency is of God. ifme worm Jacob being fo well again, he will be fo un-weddy, that he will threfti no mountains till he fallanew, 2 Cor xiii. it.3- Dcfpifmg creatures, as the lofty mountains coverthe crawling worms: fb doth the carnal world con¬temn worm Jacob, Pfal. x.x. 6. But 1 am a worm anano man : a reproach of men. and defpifed of the people. ,iAnd Plal. xxxii. 4. Our foul is exceedingly filled withthe /corning of thoje that are at ea!e, and with the con- . ftempt of the proud Though they may value worm [ jJaco^ for his gifts, which he has in common with them- Jlelves. they will never value him forhisgrace, that leavti . ihim Hill as a worm in their fight!—what of religion lies *beyond the reach of the nature of man!—they defpjfjthe Chriilijn entertainment on words and promifes:—they delpife us as we do the dull; the worms lick up -the Chriftian way of doing in faith; they defpile us t swe do the crawling of the worm: like Sanbailat when'—V. JV..W     W V,. .. V. :f:tally, Plal. xx 6 worm Jacob. Piak xxvii. 6 This is ^the generation of them that feck him, that feck thy fcc'eM0 Jr. cob—Compare Ifi. xlix 3- Thou art my feri ant+M0 If ad, in w hom f will be glorified.—-This intimWbam JACOB threfiring the Mountains. j5. Lafily, Paring adventurers, daring wrelHers,nuorm Jacob vemnred on him that formed the moun¬tains, and wreftlcd with him, and prevailed too, Gen.xxii. 24. Hof xii. 4. What, wonder to find himthen venturing on the mountains themfelves Hemult have the biefling, and muft .be forwarded what¬ever mountains be in the way. 1 proceed toThe fecond thing to be confidered, namely the myfrtery of grace carried on in them by Jefus Chrift, wemay take it up in thefe two.1. An apparently hopelefs encounter they are led toby him •.—•worm Jacob tbrejhing the mountainsa hopelefs like encounter is a worm tbrefhing a moun¬tain; fo hopelefs-like are the encounters the peop:e ofGod, have to make in their way to tne eternal reltThefe threlhers are certainly threlhers in hope, 1 Cor.ix. 10. But the naked eye cannot difcpver the groundof hope in it:—it is faith only that (hews it hopeful swhich fight reprefents it as a hopeful cafe: and, there¬fore, they mull clofe their eyes, and threth >n faith asAbraham did, Rom. v. 19.—YVc take up this hepe'efsencounter in five things.F/rfi, The Lord lays in his people’s way mountainsof difficulties quire above their llrengrh, difficultieswhich they look to as a worm to a mountain before it.— 2 Cor. i. 8. For we would not, brethren,'have youignorant of our troubley which came to us in Ajia, thatwe were pt effed out of meafure, above fh\ ngth, info-much, that we de/paired even of life?-— Howeverp ain the way to ht.ll be, the way to heaven will be amountainous way in the experience of all that travelit: they will never want mountains in the way tillthey come to the hill of God.Secondly, They muft not go about the mountains intheir ways, ftiiftmg the difficulties which God calls•hem to; but they muft make their way over them,threftving them down, Micah iv. 13. Arife and threfh■J daughter of Zion; for I will make thine horn iron,A 4 / andS Worm JACOB threjhing the Mountains,en'd thy broiv hrafs s and thou /halt Beat in pieces manypeople; If they offer to go about one mountain, theywill be lure to meet with a higher one in their about-gate : Peter tried it in denying bis mafter, and foundit fo encountering, another as high above the former,as the anger of God is above that of the creature, andwhich was like to crufh him, Matth- xxv. 75. He iventcut and ivept bitterly.Thirdly, Therefore worm Jacob falls a tbrefhingmountains, combating the difficulties the Lord lays inhis way.—He purs on a brow for a bargon, and refo-Jutely beftirs his weak hands, and goes thrdhing for¬wards, maugers all oppolitions, Gen. xxxii- 26. Mat,xi 22.—For there is z fpu it in worm Jacob more dar?ing and venturous than ever was in any unbelievinghero, \\fpiril for threfhing of mountains, while they didbut fcatter molehills, Numb. xiv. 34. Proy. xvi. 32.Fourthly, They continue the Combating of difficuL.-ties refolutcly and patiently.—Threfhing is a continu¬ed afrion, confiding of repeated ftrokes; it takes fbmetime to threfii a fheaf, how much more to threfh amountain.—It is the ruin of many that they are notable to endure: If a ftroke or two would do the buffnefs, they would bring their matters to a good account;but they have no heart to be threfhers.**•£/// let pati¬ence have her perftdl work, that ye may be perfeti andentire, ’wanting nothing, James ii. 4, He that (hall en¬dure to the end /hall he J'aved, Matth. xxiv. 13.Lafily, Worm Jacob has many mountains to thre-fh.One wound is enough, we would think, to the worm,bur there is a plurality of them.—The truth is, thisworld is full of mountains to the people of God ; andwhen they have threfhed one, they will have anotherto fail to, -till they be out of ihis mountanious country.Having pailed one difficulty, they will get another tograpple with, till they be within the gates of.the city.So they mud have a threfhing life-time of it, if theycome there,2. AWorm JACOB threjhing the Mountains. $2. A furprifing fuccefs, even as furprifing^as a wormvTirefhing and beating the mountains fmal! to duft, andthen threfhing them away. Such will be the iiTueof the encounters which the people of God now havewith their difficulties in their way through the world,for which the text is plain. We take it up in thefetwo. They will have.Firji, Patriarchal feccefs in their way, very furprif¬ing to others and to themfeives, Pial. Ixxvi. i, 2. Whenthe Lord turned again the captivity 0} Zicn, we werelike them that drtam. — Then was our mouth filed withlaughter and cur topgues with Jmging; then Jaid theyamong the Heathen, the Lord hath done great things jor//><fOT.--What mountains of difficulties were in David’sway to the kingdom, he threlhed long at them, and theynever appeared to give way; nay. J fall perijh by thehand of Saul --But fee the furprifing luccefs, Pfai. xvii.entitled, a pfalm of David, in the day that the Lord de¬livered him from the hand of alt his enemies, and fromthe hand of Saul. Wherein, after recapitulating the va¬rious difficulties he had to encounter with, he particu¬larly mentions the happy deliverance be met with, andthe furprifing manner of the fame.—Some mountainsGod’s people are kept threfhing at all their days* espe¬cially the mountain of corruption, and thby never fallquite down till dead.--Put as a pledge for the time tocome, God makes now and then fbmc mountains to falldown before iht worm Jacob, wherewith he is furprifedand tranfported with wonder how it came to pals.—-Mark xvi. 4, 5. And when tloey looked they faw the Jlonewas rolled away —and they were affrighted.Secondly, A total fucccfs at the end of their ways,which will fwallow them up in furprife and eternalwonder •—1 John iii 2. Beloved, now are we the fens ofGod, and it doth not yet appear what we fhall be: butwe know tfjat when he /halt appear wc jhall be like him ;for we fall fee him as he es.—-When the myftery isiiniffied. and the web cut out, it will appear an admi¬rableI o IV’irm JACOB threfhing the Mountains.rable piece ! there wil! rot be left then the Jeaft ve^tage of all the mountains that Hood between heavenand them ; the threfhing mountains will then be blownaway with the wind, and they will lay by the flail asan inflrurnent they have no more ufc for.Objeft. But have not others as well as -worm Jacob,mountains of difficulties in their way, which they be*come mnffers of at length.Anjiu. This world is lb mountanious that none canget through it, without meeting mountains in theirway: Carnal men make a fhift to creep through lomeof them ; but they can thrclh none of them as tDormJacob doth, they want his hand and flaff. John xv. 5*Without me thou can do nothing. They creep into o-thers of them, and nefile in them : the mountains oftheir corruptions, which in a fpecial manner (land be¬tween heaven and them, and at length they will beeternally buried under them.Ufe 1. Here is a touchftonc for the trial of trueChriftians and worthy communicants, -worm Jacobthrefliing the mountains.Birflt They have a heart and fpirit for threlhing ofmountains in their way to heaven : They are peremp¬tory and refolme to break through them without exrception, as men that muft be in ; thefe fliail notperifh, Marth. xi. 12. The kingdom of heaven Juffcrethviolence, and the violent take it by force. Thoughthey have long threlhed in vain to their own fenfe ;yet they are refolved to hold on (becaufe they lee himwho is inviflble) ; and, like Paul, prefs forward to-' ward the mark, for the prize of the calling of God inChrill, Phil iv, 15. The fearful tswdt unbelieving,they are lb delicate and faint-hearted in this cafe, thatthey are not for threlhing the mountains, they are forthe eafier talk, but have no heart or hand for thatwork :—Thefe, I am lure, are the fearful, Rev. xxi. 8.They are like the unbelieving fpies and people of thewildernefs.—Take heed here how ye Hand.(1.) ToiVonn JACOB threjhing the Iftouniairts. II(V.) To a vain world : Whether there is in you aheart to row againfi the flream or no, Rom. xi. i.Be ye not conformed to this ’A'or Id; hut he transform¬ed hy the renewing of your minds, &Cy---Ifye have noheart for it, but muft: go along with it, be yc youngor old, ye are no good Chriflian, Gal. iv.world is crucified to me, and I to the world- Anayoung communicants leaving that gap open, makemighty and nfelels old ones a ter.(2.) To the fin that mo ft eafily hefcti,yon,~-Tfi youhave no heart to threfli that mountain, iye have notthe fnirit of tuerm Jacob, who is fine that keeps him-f; If from his iniquity,' Pf; 1 - xviii 3. And ye will beburied under it at lengm, like the young man whowas grieved at Chrifi’s dilcouric about felf-denial andthe crofs, and went away from him, and never re*turned, Mark x. 21, 22.(3 ) To the crook in your lot :—Have- you no heartin ycurfelves to wifli foi;a ChritUandike bearing of it;but muft needs have it evened to.your mind, ir yehave not. ye are not of the fpirh oA the norm Jacob:for, the LORD hath Paid, If any man will come af-tor me, let him deny bimjedf and take up his crojs andfollow me, Matth. xvi 24.Secondly, Yet they are but worms in their own eyes;and. therefore, an unequal match forthe lea ft of themountains.---a Cor. iii. 5. We ate not fuffeient of our-felves to think any thing as of outjslves, hut our fuff-' ciency is of God.- This cafts the iegalift that mindsnothing but binding himfclf to duty, reckoning him-telf man enough for the duties ot Chriftinily.•The futn of the mark is,--the Ghriftian communicant is rdblute and peremptory for doing all ; yet hiis convinced that he is (ufficient for nothing ?Ufe 2. Here is like wife a ground of comfort to fucb-•-Let not the high rockinels nor bulk of the mourrains discourage thee, nor yet the felt unfticcefsfuineof tby attempts hitherto. GOD hath Paid, Wor12 tVcrm JACOB threfhlng the Mountains-.Jacob Jhall threfh the mountains and beat them fmaU;f^be not afraid,—-on!y believe.VJe 3. La ft by. Here is, moreover, a Arong induce¬ment to all io co t e to GHriA. He wii] naake vouthreft) the mount tins, and beat them fmall. Come,J/e that are wanderin;; in the mountains of vanity, andI ke to be worried on the mountains of prey, who arewreftiing in the mountains of difficulty before youcome to Chiift, and, yc JhaL threJJj the mountainstand beat them fmatl, and floail make the hills like chaff.Thirdly. I Qiall account for this myftery -worm Jacobthreffiing the mountains of-difficulties in his way, andthrefhing them away quite and clean : how can this be >1. GOD hath faid, and therefore it cannot fail, Thou(halt threjh the mountains, and beat them fmall, and/halt make the hills as chaff.—Compare with Numbersxx'ni. 1 y. Gsd is not a man that he fhould lie, neitherthe (on cf man that he (hould repent.—Hath he faid,and Jhall he not do it ?— Or hath be fpoken, and /ballhe not make it good N—He fpake things into being, andthey muff ffart out of the womb of nothing, or not boing at his word, which calls them forth, Rom. iv. 17.There is as much fflength in Jcfus Chriff for wormJacob to threfh and beat away the mountains, as therewas for making the world and all the mountains in it^■- Pfalm xxxiii. 9. He fpake, and it was dona and,fhall not his word thaMaid them into being, be as ef-ftttual to fay them away again.—Thus faith the Lord,it is enough to enfure the .icconiplifhment of the hard-, efl thing prophtfied.2. The glory of his grace, which is the great fign of^he whole myfteiy of godlinefs, furely requires it What does he intend'by the n^ffery of Chriff, but the’lory of his grace, Eph. i. 6 To fhew the exceedingiches of it, chap. ii. 7. Therefore be has chojen the wayfsat leads Jtraight io tide point, Rom vi. 6. Therefore■ is of faith that ii might be by grace —- The worm isefpicable in itfelf, but being the lubjett of gloriousgrace.Worm JACOB threjhmg the Mountains. 13grace, if it (hall mifcnrry in its attempts, the glory ofgrace is funk, as the precious loading with the fhip cart"away.—Wherefore, that his grace may be glorified, ifit be in a voorm threjhing mountains, thofe mountainsmuft needs be threthed away by that worm, thoughthat facred fire be but like a fipark in the midfi of thefea of corruption, it mufl: not only be prelerved in*_but dry up that fea quite and clean.3. By an unalterable decree, there mufl be a con¬formity betwixt the little worm and the great wormJacob, the little one’s kinfman Redeemer, Rom. viii.9. Ftr -whom he did foreknow, he al/o did predejiinateto be conformed to the image of his Son, that he mightbe the firfl-born among many brethren. Now, thegreat worm the man Chrifl, a Worm and no man, Pfal.xx. 6. has encountered mountains and threfiaed themaway. Where are the four monarchies, the mofttowering mountains that ever fet up their heads onearth ?—The chief Worm Jacob has threflred them a-way to chaff, which is away with the wind, Dan. ii.35.—The mountains flood before him thro’ the world,with all the faflnefs of human learning, and the pow¬er of the fword could give ; but, by his few fifhermenhe threflred them aw'ay, and the prophecy is fulfilled,Pfal. Ixxii. 1 2. There [hall be a handful of corn in theearth on the top of the mountains, ike fruit thereof/hall Jhake like Lebanon, and they of the city fhall flou-rifh like the grafs of the earth. Now many mountainsftand before the little ’worm, but where will that con¬formity to heaven’s beloved pattern be, if they alfbdo not threfh them away.4. The little worm J-icob is in reality but a memberof the great One Jdus Chrifl. Take away that,and worm Jacob is as infuflkidnt for threflnng ofmountains as any worm that crawls on the earth. Johnxv. 5 —Without me ye can do nothing,—that, andworm Jacob has a kind of defired omnipotence.—Ver.7. If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ycJkall14 Worm JACOB threfhing the Mountains.floall afk what ye will, and it floall be done unto you.---Phil. v. 13. I can do a ’! things through Chri/J -whichflrengthenelh And if is fixed ib that their threfh¬ing is Chrift’s threfhing, Col. i. 24. And ye may wellallow Chrirt threlhing away mountains with 3 littlefinger of his body. If with the finger of God hecart out devils, with the k-aft of his fingers he maycart down mountains.5. Laflly, All the mountains that Hand before -wormJacob are burnt mountains, fb they are far eafier tothrgfh one would think.-—The mountain of the Baby-lonifh monarch that flood before the -worm Jacob, andbarrecthis way feventy years: --at lefigth God let firein the bowels of it, and makes it a burnt mountain:and then bids worm Jacob threfh, and it flies awaywith the wind,—Jer. ii. 25. Behold l am againft theey0 dejiroying mountain, faith the Lord, -which deflroy-eth all the earth, and 1 will ftretch out mine hand u-psn thee, and roll thee down from the rocks, and -willmake thee a burnt mountain —By the death and refur*redtion ofChrifl, all the mountains that ftand between-worm Jacob and.heaven are burnt mountains.Ghrift has gone through the bowels of them with hisfire, undone their confillance, burnt the rocks to lime;they are nothing now but the fhape of mountains,with a thin fcorched fur face; they will give wdy atthe threfhing of worm Jacob, like the apples of Sodom,being touched, go to dull between one’s fingers.  Micah ii. 13. The breaker is come up before them; theyhave broken up, and have paffid through the gate, andare gone out by it, and their king ft) all pafs before them,and the Lord on the head of Mew.—Nahum iii. 1 2. Allthy flrong holas /ball be like fig-trees with the firfiripe figs -; if they be shaken, they shall fall into themouth of the eater.—Compare Ik. xxvi. 19. Thy deadmen shall live, together with my dead body shall theyarife; awake and fing, ye that dwell in duft; for thyWorm JACOB threfhmg the Mountains. 15the dead.—Hofea xiii. 14. 1 vjUI ranfbm them from thepower of the grave ; 1 will redeem them from death ;0 death, I will he thy plague : 0 grave, I will be thyj deflruttion : repentance shall he hid from mine eyes,l. The ftruggle of the church with all her advcrik-ries, will have a furprifing comfortable iffne at lerfgth,—As weak as fhe is, and as ftrong and numerous asthey are, (he will infallibly have fuccefs, furprifing fiuc-cefs againft them, attending the encounter with them,Micah iv. it, 12, 13, drc.And as to the prelent flate of the church, learn,Firfl, It is not at all ftrange, nor will it make thej cafe of this church hopelefs, that prodigioufiy highmountains, higher than our fathers (aw, are raifed upagainfl her, over-topping worm Jacob, and threaten¬ing to crufh him: mountains of national guilt, of for¬ty years gathering, laid upon the top of the moun¬tains of guilt railed by our fathers;—prophanity over¬flowing and becoming fafhionablea confpiracy car¬ried on in the houfe of her friends, againft the graceof Ghrift and (erious godlinefs, to palm upon ns refin¬ed Heathenifm for Chriftianity, the foundation ftrudeat: mountains of damnable herefies and blafphemiesagainll: the perfon of Ghrift, and divine authority ofthe feriptures, and the advanced learning of the ageimproved to the(e monftrous ends But, threihon the mountains of oppofition that ftand in yourway from earth to hell, thou (halt get through themall at length, and thou (halt ftand on the fea of glafs.Rev. xv. 2, 3.2 Threfti on the mountains of trouble, trials, andaffliffions:—let none of them, be they never fb highand formidable, prevail to fepirate betwixt God andyou ‘--they will be beat to dufr at Lift, and blown a-way before you. Rev. vii. 9, 14, 6r.3. Threfh on the mountains of Cor:option and in¬dwelling fin ; thre(hing on every height thereof, par¬ticularly the top of it, that is, rhe Jin that eafily bcfelsyouti6 Worm JACOB threjhing the Mountain*.you, infallibly you will get it down at length Pat ?^ fays this, while he was ttvefhing it, Rom. vii. 24, 25.0 wretched man that 1 am, &c.Say not, t\las! I am too weak, my thtelhing willbe in vain. No, tho’ you have no more ftrengthfor it than a worm for a mountain, it will not be invain. God will have thele mountains threlhed byworms.Rot thou wilt fay, Alas! I have threfhed long with¬out fuccefs. Anfw* Threfn on them by patient enduring till themountain fall, Heb. vi. 15. After Abraham had, See.But there is an oath binding betwixt the promife andits nccomplifhments that it cannot $il, ver. 19. Mindthe walls of Jericho.-—Have ye not had a partial foe*cels fometimes ; make ufe then of the total: lb it waswith Jefus himfelf, Heb. ii. 8.—Thou shalt thresh themountains, and beat them fmall, and shall make thehills as chaff’.The laft mountain to be threfhed away is death,and ye (hall beat that fmall too, 1 Cor. x. 54, yy.After all, it is a mighty wonder to fee worm Jacobthreshing the mountains ; but the threfhing worm is(hod from heaven, and fo fitted to thtclh.—-Threethings this threfhing inftrument is fhod with ; aword of command calling the work. •A plain in fiance we have in the rationalifl of theage, laying the doflrine of a crucified Chrift, and fub-flituting in the room thereof, rhe dry and fiplcfs doc*trine of Heathcnifm, which' God will never counte¬nance to renew the hearts or reform the life of any,as being contrary to the appointment of heaven forthat purpofe. But worm Jacob, influenced by thecommand of God, exerted by the promife of faccefs,and ufing the proper means, shall thresh Use moun¬tains, and them fmall, and shall make the hills aschaff'.THE END,