.TRAGICAL HISTORYOFCRAZY JANE,ANDYOUNG HENRY.jiving an Account of their Birth, Parentage/Coartfhip, and melancholy End.~ FOt>JI»EO OB FACIE, *Y SaHAH WlLKiyiOS,EDINBURGH;Printed oy Mirren, Campbell s Chtf, Covr^fi'.^V SCOTWTir. rTHEHISTORYOFCRAZY JANE.BY SARAH WILKINSON.'T ’HE unfortunate beauty, whofe wanderingsot imagination throagb an ill-fated attach¬ment, had gained her the appellation of Crazy”Jane, was the youngeft daughter of Mr Arnold,a fubftantial farmer in Wiltthire. He had fourchildren by Margaret, his excellent wife, whowas (till living,) Lubin, Lucy, Annette, and rhelovely Jane, who, from, her earlieft childhood^was remarkable for her fuperior beauty, and theelegance of her perfon; and juftly bore away t-/epalm of admiration from her juvenile companions.Her long hair, which was naturally formed intothe moft beauteous trefles, was of the lightedbrown: her eyes were of the deepeft bloc; andat eaeh glance fliot forth a radiant luftre beara-reg with exprefion. She ws* tall, (lender, and2?^^?heVXns’ ^e* Per beauty had mared &t(r fled manofuitor,: but none of them had f.cceeded inS^in; the affedions of the yontJ fu. mindf LuHnher only brother, was in his twenty-fourth %e rano w« a. much sndowed with mafouiine a! hisifter w^s with feminine btautr. Lucy andnetta might both be entitled te th# denlnunaiianof pretty agreeable girls, but no farmer.,t;°*iles diaant fro» farmer Arnoldrefided » Mr Percival, who, having b-ItrZ? ,WO°j ,n the citT of London andaccumulated a decent fortune, raired tith hisri?0t!t3; VVh* “fcer hcr mother’s death•f dRoTwhoS]W 1 eperLat the h^afant village•F Rots wood, where they inhabited a f»allthough neat manfion built in the cottage ftyte^nd furrounded by a bdutions garden, bou. Ldby * n,eandringriv,let*which-u if- c P -'l rnur®urs. J while the dillant.ackuig of the mill, and a deep founding water-* Nifti fh A rTBl ^anQli es ef thc ^ene.tbeh.rLf tblfa-lr,^ane’ Hofettawas eft-emedSA ^ndfo®eft S'* « that part of the country.She was ia her nineteenth; ea-, and her traly « nn- '®We manners foon gaiaed her the effoem of theCiAZT Jase. 5jfsrrounding families; and amonpli die reft, far-®er Arnold's Rofetta admired all the fifttrs,Jut particularly attacked herfelf to Jane . TheirH«tiaiemswe*e congenial; and their chief h ppi«siels teamed to be in each ethers fociety. O 'tenwnb the yermiffion of har parents. |ane wouldrepair to Mr FercivaP*, and refide with her tearttoietta.far three or four days at a time. To*(jether they would wander through the mazes ofiin adjacent wood, gather wild flowers or fruit,fLi r cot?aSe1’3 or their poor neighbours,'tnd relieve their wants as far as tbeir own abi«aty would allow. as they roved, arm intirtr, their difeourfe would turn to Henry, Ro-ictta’s brother, whom ftie tenderly loved, andMicorely regretted his obfence.' On their departure from London, Henry hadletuied to accompany bis father and lifter toRofe-:ro*d; but accepted an advantage ous offer,whichiras made him by a merchant, who was diftantlylelated to the family, to remain with him in thejspaeity of his head clerk, which was a verylucrative employment, Mr Percival and hie''aughter h^d no .v been in Wiltftiire two years,md as yet had received no vifit from Henry,whom his After reprefeuted,a8 one of the fineftrouths of the age, both in mental and perfonaiccomplifhmcrits.1 One morning Jane was agreeably furprifed bvvery early and unexpeRed vifit from Rofetu,ier young friend produced a letter, which ft«l6d rectived late the preceding night. It6history o?from Henry, and announced the ple&ung intelhi!gence, that he fliould be at Rofewood on the fol;lowing Mencbiy, where {lie meant to remain fopiltime ; Us vifit, he informed them, was owtn.lto his relation’s fudden determination of quittinjiEngland for the Indies, in order to malta perfonal inveftigation of his property: anthither the youth felt no inclinadon to accompaflhim: but reiolved to repair to Rofewood, aftremain feme time with his father previoas toh:forming a new fettlement for hinafelf* ^ones'flould repair to Rofewowi at tm early hotof the forenoon, and that Lubm fhould join Jg4V partv at the commencement of theevertnj(hare in their pleafures, and efcort his fiftehome. Rosetta then departed ; and tne intryering time was fjwnt by farmer Arnold's daug;tera in preparing their village finery for the cc&fion Monday arrived, and with it a leriodi&ppointmeut. Annetta was feiztd with a fo,'en Indjfpoliiionj and the attendance of Uwas neccffary. But in compliance with the diAre of her parents, W kept her apppomtmeras they were unwilling to deprive Rolctta of tcompany of her friend She was dretfed m-.•hijerob?; end a Rrttw hat, ornametited tvitfAs loon as noietta noa unpaivcuPf the letter, ihe ictreated Mr Arnold to permHis three daughter to vifit he^ on the day ajminted for Henry’s arrival, as her father inter*ed to make it n kind of a feftivah The fariwand it wjsaeveed that theiaSJfcrazy Jane,wreath of fancy flower*, wa. tiU under thechmb« a liliac ribbon, Pafling through r. rove r herway to Mr Pfercival’s, (he was overtake .-v ayoung gentleman of the mcAt prepoffe^gapj’c *ance, who enquired of her the way to Rofewood.She immediately informed him ; and a few mo-ments converfation made it known, tnat it wasHenry Percival who addreffed her. Tempud b ;the finenofg of the morning, he had difchargei.his chaife at the laft town, aad leaving his lug¬gage at the inn, proceeded on foot. „5 Pleafed with the fociety of each other, Henryand Tane proceeded on, arm in arm, to Koie-wood, where they were affeaionate y welcomedby Mr Percival and Rofett'% who had ftom thewindow, of the parlour beheld the approach ofth'lC^H^tohUFami,y^«.ebr.-ttd with the utmoft fedivity. The company ai-fembled on the cccalionwere plentifuhy reT>alf\>and the young neopie danced on the grais-pHiLthat adorned the front of Mr Percival . dwelling.Rofetta was Lubin’s partner; and Jane^wacHenry's. Never did four perfons appear lo lu*perlative happy. 3<>y beamed in their eye., andthe glow of delight flulhed in their c ee•When the hour of fefwaticn arrived, young.Percival infifted on accompanying Lubm and janehome to their parental dwelling; alledging, that,as the hour was very late, her brother s pro-te&ion might not be fuffieient to enfure rhnfafety of the gentle maiden,HJSTtRY OBwlT if gtt,ety of Henry, whichiecffled to flow fpontaneoufly from a pure unfo. .poitticated heart, no one arouad him had fufpCa-f.;1 c trrai£i of vice that lay lurking in hi* bread,msperlon and behaviour was formed to captivateami ne rarely failed to excite other friendfliip,tae more ardent paffion love, in thefe obie£Utftat he laboured to infpire with them.iisbeini Jane’s efcort, introduced him to Mrmold mid his wife who pleafed with the man-ters ot their new vifitor, and in confideration of, !8 being the brother of the dear Kofette, gaveum a general invitation to the farm, which heeagerly embraced; and availed himfelf of everyopportunity that offered, to be m compasy withWie innocent Jane, and whifper in her ears foftVows of l*ye, and declare an affeflion never toend but wnh death. The heart of the youthfulmaiden was not proof ag,lin'd the feduftive powero his tongue. Henry loon gained the entire pof- ■leUion of her nffe£lions; nor was he long igno- :rant of her fentiments in his favour. The plea-‘ing confiueration, inllead o infpiring him withthe WJ& of coiling her his own by indiilbluble |u5*» sn« “aring with her the ineflimablebltffing •ot domeitic felicity, *only prompted him to pro¬ceed in a bale aciign he had foormed againft herhonour, even at the fir ft interview. A hafeambition fired liecry’s foul. Not content withthe handfooe competency which he would even-tually derive from his father, and a handfome 'lubMeiicc that he could earn himlclf, he hadc»42T Jam.predetermined never to marry arlefs he coaldmeet with fome woman with an mdependeatfortune » her own hands. Indeed, *o o*erparpote than gaining fnch an end, would h« evehave beftowed a thought on marri ge, bu. alwaystreated the mentio, of that facred ceremony wi*unhallowed ri dicule. As yet no fatr one, cakulated to gratify hi* avaricious pafiions had felUnhis way; but many a hapkfs fair one had becomethe viftim of his feduftive arts. The ea® >’the interefting Jan., and the d.fpofittons of her.fclf and family, who virtuous and benevolent mthemfelves, fufpeaed no guile m others, appearedto this monfter of deceit, as a fair opportunity of^ccomplifliing his bafe de&gns, by luring her from va peaceful home.This depraved youth felt no ditiiculty in per-futding Jane that his-father would averk trhis marriage with one that had fo ‘jnall a Portioa. Alas 1 this he knew to be a falfe affertion.for Mr Pcrcival would have very readtlj conlent-ed fo great was his opinion of farmer Arnoldsdaughters, to have received any one cf them intohis family; more particularly Jane, who had everbeen a rreat favourite with the old gentleman.Every one Weheld a vifiblc partiality betweenHenry and Jane, and cone uded that it wouldlead to a kiting attachment. But none, no, noeven Rofetta, or the brother and fitters o, themaiden, ever fuppofed t.at their iatercourle hadproceeded to fuch lengths. Every night, whenthe reft o£ farmer Arnold’s family h retired tijHIST04Y Oi-,1Crepofe, Jane Hole From her chamber to meet herlover ip the grove, and wandered whole hours, 'guided'by Cynthia’* refleainj light; Henry,breathing all the vows of an impalfioned lover,and Jane liftening with delight. For fome monthsdid the dear delufion laft; and the bread of Janevva* abode of love, innocence, and hope, till •one fatal hour when the guardian angel of vir*tue flept, and the demon of vice reigned tri«ampbant, the ill-f&ted Jane furrendered her vir*tue to the importunities of the deceitful Henry',and bade adieu to peace for ever—till Uie funkto the narrow confines of the grave. Ah, yefair daughters of the earth! Nature’s choiceftworic, did you rightly confider the pre-eminenceot virtue, and your own confciou* dignity, howfew, if any, would depart from the path pointedout by refiitude, religion, and honour!At the next interview that took place betweenhenry' and our unfortunate maiden; after thefatal triumph of the former, her fwoln eyes, andaltered countenance, declared the poignancy of”e/r anc* t^iat remorfe had already takenpofleflion of her foul. Henry exerted all his elo¬quence to foothe her grief's; even his callousheart received a pang at her altered appearance.-lis arguments renewed her fmiles; and he pro-mifed to repair to London in a few weeks, andh?r a htuation in fome commercial houi'e,that mould enable him to maintain his lovelyJane, in cafe their father fhould be offended a'ttn^ir the felestcufation of which w;*-f: RAZY JAV. *1I ike phce at Henry** return at Rofewood.h fcci-j fallaciou* promife* as tbefe did he en-: tbe youthful vi£Um of credulity to further5 and lull the keennef* of that forrow he1 not wholly diffipite.ill at this period, Lubin Arnold made ratheren overtures to Mr Percival for the hand oftta; the declaration of his love bei g liaften-jy the iMowledge that tquire Swinford hadidy made propofal* highly advcntagou* toair Percival refolved to decide the queftionis daughter’s choice; the profpeA of accu-iting riches could not dazzle for a momentunderltanding. Rofetta did not hefttate to:,re her affeAjoa for Lubin, ar 1 an early dayappointed for their nuptials. The weddingss kept at Mr Arnold’s, who gave tha enter-inmen, in the true llyle of Englifh hofpitality,id his laughters exwrted themfel/es in welcom-g their new filler to her future abode. It was^reed that Lubin, being in partnerfliip with histhcr, with his b» ide ftiould refide at the farm,id that Lucy Ihould take upon herfelf the charge: Mr Percival’s doa.eftic affairs, and refide atlofewood.[I The h.appinefs of Rofetta, and the modfelliheerfulnels that difplayed itfelf in every lookuring their nuptial feaft, gave many a bitterang to the heart of the lovely ]a .e. Not that,je wiftied to fee her friend lefs happy, or indul-ed the banc: ul paflion of envy; no, but it madeer feel the horrors of her own iituation. IntleadfX2 HISTOfiT OPof a jojrou* biide, furrounded by approv!n|' friends flic was a mifcrable dependant on th<honour of a man, of whofc veracity {he had oilate ftrong and painful doubts. In the courfe othe evening, Jane found an opportunity of-converfing, unobftrved, with Henry, and repofingher griefs in his bofom. How powerful i» thelanguage of perfuafion from the lips of thofe welove! Theyou h called heaven towitnefis, thatfhe was more dear to him than his own life;aud that he would fooner fuffer the mod ago.nixing tortures that invention couli devife orcruelly infliS, than allow the idol of his heartto become the theme of babbling tongues. !nfliort, Jane toon felt a conviflion, that Are ha^wronged h#r lover by her fufpicions of his faith,and was eager to obtain his pardon for an offencethat flic blamed herfelf for committing againfltheir mutual love. Ese they returned to tha"company, jane reminded Henry, that (lie thoughtthe allimce that had taken place in their twefamilies, would remove the bar of their ownunion : as flie could not fuppofe Mr Percivalwould raife any obje&ions to it, alter he had fos’eadily contented to join the hands of Lubin andRofetta.Mafler, as. Kerry was, of diflimulation, ydthis reafonahle liigceftion of the fair viftim ofhis deceit flaggered him; he was (what rarelyoceuired to him) at a lofj for an anfwer. Atlength he hammered forth a few fentenees,alraofl incoherent from his agitation, that heC&AZY Jakk.i 3W'iuld inform his father of the attachment, ifhis dear Jr.ne infifted on fuch a facrifice, whiahhe knew would be attended with fata! coafe-quences to his future profpt&s. “ Gonfider,that the fituation and property of Lnbin are farfuperior to my filler’s. He did not objett totha alliance of the Arnold* with his daughter ;but old age, my beft love, will be avancieus;and he lias far hi.her views for his fon.”“ Which he will doubtlefs, (replied Jane, thetears darting from her expreffive eyes,) complywith, and facrifice his love to filial duty.” Henryappeared hurt st this faggelUon; but in a fewmoments recovering himfelf to his ufusl placi¬dity, he ftrove to give confidence and compofureto the bread of Jane, and at this time fucceeded.At a late hour the company feparated to theextreme relief of Jaue, who was anxious to re¬tire to the folitude of her chamber, and com¬mune with her own thoughts. Of Henry’s con-dud fhe knew not what to think. She lovedhim, fincerely loved him; and flic feared to lofehim by ill-timed expreffions, or diffatisfadion, ordoubt; yet (lie knew herfelf to be in a fituationthat, ere long, mull proclaim, to the gaze ofevery behoidcr, her lofs of honour. This pre¬luded delay, and added poignancy to her woes.At this moment the was mifcrable. Then Ihe re¬ceded on the oaths and proteftations of Henry;his kind rdlursnces at their laft interview, inwhich lie culed on every holy power to witnei'ahis faith to her his cAosai wife,- and dcSccf theHISTOHV Of*4malice of the whole world to past them. Thus*in fluftuating hope and fear, the haplels girlpafled away her melancholy hours, till the Ur itdawn of the grey-eyed morn was announced bythe flirill clarion of Chanticleer. RecollectionfluGied on her mind: Cie chided herfelf forgiving way to fuch forrowful retrofpeaions;and fearful of being dlfcovered by any of thefamily, not yet undrefled, flie hallily Civetledherfelf of her apparel, and retired to bed.—Worn out by the fatigue of the proceeding dayand the forrows of her heart, Qte looa fell intoa heavy Humber. But deep did not calm thepafiions of her mind; her dreams werehornhc;one while Ihe was hurled fro» a precipice, thendallied into the foaming and tempettuous ocean,and finking amidft the billows, calling ia v«in toHenry for aid. She awoke overwhelmed withterror. It was not yet time to rife—Again theflept: again the ocean prefented itfelf to he.view: a fwift-flilmg veffel appeared almoft tofly before the wind: Henry was on the deck;his bolbm dreaming with gore, from a felf-m-flifted wound, as appeared by a poinard that hegrafped in his right hand. Borne by an invifloleguide, flie flew towards him. A iuaden Jloimarofe ; the fliip was furioully combated by tneelements. Henry gave a deep groan and tx-pired in her arms. The vtffci now appeared tohrk rapidly, and the horror* of death werearo'jiu ner. Juft at the moment of this painfulvilionary trouble, her After Annette entered theCZAZV J*Hf:chamber, and awoke the fieeping fufferer. But16 ^as nsuch indifpofed to rife, and readilyher bed ^ ** her flfter’S ‘iefire of remaining inJan^ did not ariie till the evening. Nor wouldthe then have left her chamber, only to keep herappointment with Henry, wham flic had promi¬sed to meet at the ufual fpot, in the well-knowngrove, in vain Annette perfuaded her not toleave the houfe: Jane perfdted that a walkwould beof fervice to her; end obtained herinter s prormfe, not to mention her abfence toher parents; and then haftened to the place whereher perfidious lover was waiting. Henry, withjieeming affection, embraced her; and then im¬parted his intention of leaving Rofewood, andrepairing to the metropolis the next day. jane,L7rfe”UT agents enquired the motive thather S ?ePartUr"‘ He informed<er, that he had that day received a letter fromthe metropolis, in *bich his friend had Anted,►hat there was a poft under government, whichthat he i>ad nodoubt, if he was prefent, of procuring for bii .10 I n'’ [(l°"UrUea fienr^3 if I Succeed, I fhallWlonga be dependant on mvfaher; and ouraafe fnBl1 tr‘ke pwee immediately on my re-n they've iPr0ini1^ m/acarjane, (hall bewith-Lnphi? bree-Weeks* Jane was ‘‘^£led at tnehoughtsc parting; yet the Solemn promiI s ofcr lover eafed h^r mind of an oppreffive bur-hen, and her tears were mingled with emotionsHUTORV OFof ioy and grief. It was long ere any of themhad fortitude to pronounce the fmall* but^muAimporting word, Adieu—Heftry accom^n^iJane to the end of the prove, and then left herfor ever. ...He purfued his journey to London, ^ ^hieplace, he informed his father and filler, -was going to receive fotne money that a gen-tinman, to whom be had lent it about » tvLJmonth before, had remitted to his banker, menthe time elapled for Henry n return, the yoajcame not, Jane s anguilh was infnpportablc, hefamily J alarmed by her pallid look*. Shewas ill. fi.e pleaded indHpofition; ^d to l eown family fiie expnfffed her fears that H«nrywas falfe to his vows. Yot they knew notextent of her mifery, (he would fooner have d.t^than related her lot's of innocence.flie overwhelm her aged parents with anguHand bring a ft ah on a family whole ytrmehajbeen their boafi 1 A letter came by th« P^ tMr Percival; its contents were hke n thundnrclap to the old gentleman: Henry had emb^rteed for the Weft Indies. Thcjouth ^ted hpardon, but affured him, that circa •Lvunpleafant nature, wihh he could not the.explain, had obliged him to leave hnglanc, anrepair to his relation abroadrepair to ms relation .aoroau. f _PWhat Henry couli not exphnn, was foon Hplained for him. Lucy too abruptly cmumunK.* . . ... ATiii in the Utlplained lor mm. J-^ey   r- v . ;ted the intelligence at the farm, and » ^ prAfence of the unfortunate Jane. Violent h>fieri*ckazt J*we.h!frL°tn her fragiie form: an Portion fueceeded.^ frantic acorns fee confcffcd her guilt. VYhat'll 088 df 'rno!d hi5 agedMar-KV? VTh*/ tore the,r hsir, and wept withhaS dall?1' BUJ theydid upbrafd theirS ! S d*^hter: ^ey would not add to hetradery. Great were her fuffering*. They tried^ ?,nd’ and rP°k« the language of' Sded .0,fi rr0,fhen,0Urner- ‘ heir effox t$a Wk ’ Ld fe,t ,nto » «lm flumber. Atercept^of^6 ^i!17 redred to their chambers,her K.1 f 1 'vho watcked hy the bed fide ofcomp.furVe ^ PShe .ftHl ^t in apparentcompaiurc. ^bout four in the moraing Rofet-and felTln ler h?d °n the back of chair,awoke Lf** In lefs lhan an hour, (he wasin^he ftiesanDi °me r00^^8 h^ily defcend-bed to t if thC and approached thebanifi ed bv l •"a11116 9 affliftirn^’cre Hillbaniix.ed by the mfluence of Morpheus. Sk?ofe“alooked around, it was evidentthat ftie had arofe, and dreffed herfelf. Ttrri.cU h^f dc"riPtion» R°fetta hallened to thechamber where her hulband flept, and intrV.tcdnm tojoin with berm the porfSitcfjST Lu-oft £ nBthy th° ight °f the Srove "’here he hadThirWrt6 ln£«Uh htr faithlefs Hcnrv.low h-nVfey ?nkas [ad aS their hliarts would al¬low, and found the object of their fearch ft, etchedon the cold ground, and making a piteous moanLuoin raxfed and fupported her in his arms ;while be joined with Kofetta in calling her bythe mod endearing appellations, ^ V?her home, they endeavoured to mfpire herfortitude wid refignarion. She anfwertd onlywith heavy hghs and fome vague i^utence-,Alas! theifgeatle cares were va.o: Keaton WQfled her brain : a melanchaly defponcence reign¬ed there; and an- oblivion of every tranfedtton,but the fource of her own irremedia e ^ •In vain were the phjiicians and alltheir rae iattendants, fummoned; human skill wa *Jane was doomed to linger out her exl ,haplefs maniac. She was perfeflly harmlefs andtriable! ami for whole day. wooldwaadermIhoft plaaea whareJ.. h»o b“n aW £thole places where uie nau .with Henry. She would fing the mod P^tiveaira, and convarfc »jth tbofe wbo_aW««ri ^   -j wicn inuic w— , ,about her lover. She would ftrewwith willow, ftraw, and wild fiowert, d^fod*,n a fanciful ftyle; ana this feemed to be -honly amufernent that foothed her mind, hromthe villages flie fained the appellation of Cm>jane; and this title foon became familiar to heown eats. Regularly, at tne dofe »returned to her father s houfe; feidom flie no-ticed any one in it, but retired to a imall chamber, that was entirely appropriated to her ownufe. One of the family always, thougn un¬known to her, fat up during the night, to watchover her, fearful letl any fudden partly fliouldlead to a rafli aft on her own perfen. Jane continued in this flate above two years without anyalteration in her mind, but a very alrnvr.ing o*.Ipcrazy Jane.in her person. She was now reduced to a nserefhadow of her former felf; her eyes no longerfparkled with their 'former brilliancy; her lips%ere robbed of their coral hue, and her cheeksaflumed an afliey pale. Though death mighthave been a confummation almoft to be wilhed,that might tranflate the fufferer from this worldto a date of eternal blifs, yet her parents couldnot endure the thought of parting with theirdear, their youngeft child; dill more dear totheir heart by her fufferings. Her fifteri alfofelt a keen anguifh; but not fo much as thegentle Rofetta who was now the mother oftwo lovely infants. She never beheld Jane butfhe thought of Henry as her murderer; and theidea conveyed pangs of unutterable anguifh toher feeling heart.One morning, inftead of laying till a late hourwhich for fome months bark had been her cul-r.om, and then repairing with her folitary mealt o the grove, (hejoiredher family at their break-Jafi table, and converfed on feveral fubjechmore mtonally than Ihe had done from tlm firftday ot her derangement. As foon cs their re-paft was ended, Jane arofe, and affe£Ucnat*lyembraced every individual of the family, parti¬cularly her mother and Rofetta.They were extremely afiefted, and prayed ,v/ith fervour, thac heaven would be pleafed toreRore the feni’es of their fair maniac, fhey thenleparated, to perform their feveral ddr.Tedtc du¬ties; and jane hsftened to her tifuaT hitmts,30HISTORT Ol-i‘er-a of provifiGn,whicrj• . , e,r mot«er al»a>s prepared ready to nutimr fCr hjnds;,orriP8®rJ^:v: would have thoughtno of food, till aflailed by the calls of hunger.en evening arrived, and above an hour was*pen m usomentary expe&ation of her icturn,ine taraily becatae greatly alarmed; and Lubinand hjs mother went forth to feek her.. Theywere not man^ paces from the houl’e when theyDerceived n or™,,,. 7perceived a group of villagers approaching to->, bearing a corpfe. A^s! rtwaswards themTor.. » cvipie. A*as: twasu * , 1 ,-v "a' found her as they were paifuigthrough the grove on their return from theirurork, laying on the turf inanimate She wascold; and ine hid left her fair form for ever.£ier right hand reclined on her bread ; and iner ert was elafped a locket, which contained atragment of Henry’s hair, which be had giveu«,Cri0'jt^e ,day ^oietta:£ nuptials. 1'hat dave au necked her head *ith willow only, andhad omitted the ftraw and flowers. A'hat a»gnt lor a parent! Margaretta fi.lt it in its fullforce, and fairttetl by the fide of her departedoaugnter. It was fome minutes ere they couldrecover her from the fwoon; and Lubin, withdifficulty, led her back to the houfe, while thevillagers confirmed to bear, thtir hanlefs bur-then after the s fflifled parent. \ he grief of theArnold family could only be equalled by the agedJrercival. He had wrote fcveral times to Indiabut received no anfwer, either from fienry orhis relation., The forrows of Jane greatly aCeft--HAZY JANB.31ed bun ; he dftfi»ifed the cfueltv and iniujlice ofHenry; mu] h*u.rrequently declared to the goodfarmer, that, had his fon ^equefled his confent*o marry t'r e beautebas /ane, he would have gi¬ven it with uafeigned tranfport.On 'he fourth d;y after her decease, her fu¬nd took place in the village church yard. Herfin was t>ornebr young roa;dens in white robesd on their hc-*ds thej wore chaplets of cyprefsr Percivsl, and the weeping relations of Jane,•fed the mournful proceffion There was notIry eye among the villagers: The deep tollingell was accompanied by fighs and heart-feltoans; while the aged parents, as the funeralfled thrir docubade their f*ns beware of theAl crime of fecucing credulous innocence ; andeir daughters to avoid the fate of the broken,arted Jane, by feerning the villain who wouldrr to make them a difhonourable ofiVr.The remains of Crazy jsne were depofited un-:3er the fliade of an aged yew; and on a rough,newn ^one, was placed the following arclcfei spitaph:Traveller, flop, whoe'er thon art.Shad a tear era tkou depart;If or nere, releas'd from care and pain.Lias Love’s fad vi&itt, Craay Jane.few fhott weeks from the buri 1 of thedif-k* fair ane, fa* the renudin* of Mr Perciva!iie woe-worn Margaretta, coaaasitted tcHISTORY OFtheir native duft. The former, by his will, ha-idifmherited his fon. He bequeathed confuler-able legacies to farmer Arnold, and his two fur-viving daughters, Lucy and Annette. The reftof his property (which was very confiderable)hei-awarded to Rofetta and her affe&ionate bus..band.Mr Percival had not long departed from thi?tranfitoty world, when, to the great furprife ofthe inhabitants, Henry arrived at Rofewood-'pale and emaciated, a living ikeleton. The firflintimation he received of Jane and his father'sdeath's, was from the miftrefs of the inn; andthe intelligence appeared greatly to affeft him.With a palpitating heart he repaired to thefarm; and proftrating himfelf at Mr Arnold’sfeet, befought him to pardon the feducer andmurderer of his daughter, who was impatientto join her in the filent grave. The anger andindignation that the old gentleman felt at the]firft appearance of Percival. foon gave way topity. After their firft emotions had fubfided,and they were tranquil enough to converfe, MrArnold learnt from Henry, that for a length oitime afterflhe arrived in India, he had formedthe refo'.ution of becoming an alien to his familyHis affairs were fo profperous, as to render vnext to an impoffibility that he ftiould ever wanany pecuniary *fiifiance from them; and; fo 11the purpofe of eftrsnging himfelf from theirjlhe never anfvrered any of the letters he feceivljed from JSngland. Indeed, the reproaches wi 'Jcb.azy Jake.23which thofe from his father and Rofetta werefilled, and which he knew not how to defend,made him adhere more and more ftri&ly to .he'plan he had marked out for himfelf. But atlength, remorfe feized on his foul. The imageof Jane haunted his ntghtl* dreams, and hiswaking thoughts. His behaviour to her, andhis aged father, now appeared to him in the moftculpable light. He became a fincere penitent,and resolved to return to England, and makewhat reparation was in his power to thofe hehad fo deeply wronged. He had not been em¬barked above a fortnight on his homeword paf-fa^e, when one evening, as he was handing onthe deck, abforbed by his own reflexions, a fe¬male figure glided by him, and pronounced hisname in an awe-infpiriwg voice. He darted,and looked around; the figure flood at fome1 mall diftance from him—’Twjs Ja e. Againfhe repeated his name, and with a heavy fighvanifhed from his view. He explained the hourthat this evert occurred: and Mr Arnold hadevery reafon to fuppofe, that it was the one mwhich the haplefs fair one died; as it was onthe fame day in which fhe was found a lifelefocorpfe in her much-loved grove.The lofs of his father’s fortune did not in theleaf! affeX the youth: nor would he accept thatpart of it which Mr Arnold and he hufbandof Rofetta, generoufly offered him. No, mo¬ney be vshied not. fne death of Jane throughhis cruelty lay heavy at his heart; alfo hi* fa-BIsrORT OF, &C.ther’s dying i- difp‘eafure with him. He fre-quently declared that he had brought with himmore money from India, than \vo«Id laft theremainmg term Gf hi* 1%: He hired a fm.llcottage m the vicinify of Rofewood, where he *reftded in a manner not far removed from thehf* of an hermit. Every night, at the drearynour of twelve, he wandered nunJ a mof«.Stown tower, where the ghoft o? Crazy Janewas laid to appear, and tell to the moon a tale ofwoe. After purfuing this courfe of life for foVeral months, Henry imbibed a dangerous ate •laocholy, that prompted the arm to a& fuicide.On tne grave of his Jane, the youth fhed hisheart’s blood, aid ruflied unbidden unto theprefcRC* of his Maker. The coroner and hieJnrv declared him a maniac; and he w«a buriedbeneath the f ,tne yew that hu»g over the fairbut ill-fated neroine of iur tale.FINIS,