ASINNER RECLAIMED,GIVING AN ACGOUNrOF THF.Conversion § Happy DeathUFPOOR{yyJoseph.TO WifICII IS ADBED,•A ii V ivl N.PRINTED BY T. J J.fNSTON,ForRoBtRxG'' r, o^ aVounsrMw.,nearlyHlifid.fPBlCE O'17. BENN'l.l1814*CONVERSION OF POOR JOSEPH.A Poor half-witted man,- named Jofe jwhofe employment was to go on errand.,'and carry parcels, pafTng through Londor!flreets one day, heard plahn-ilnging in th:houfe of God; he went into it, having alaparcel of yarn hanging over his {boulders:It was Dr. Calamy’s church, St. MaryhAldermanbury. A very well dreffed audienctfurronnded the Doctor : He read his te.\from I Tim. i. 15. This is a faithful fayinnand worthy of all acceptation, that Jesus Cbri.came into the world to five fr.ners, cf wise-iJ am the chief. From this he preached, i.the clearefi: manner, the ancient and apoftoli;gofpel, the Contents of this faithful fayingviz. That there is eternal falvation for hvileft finners, folely through the worthingof Jelus'Chrifc, the God that made all things“ Not many rich, not manv noble are call :d(by this doctrine, fays the Apohle) but Gochath chofen the weak things of this worldto confound the things that are mighty.”While the elegant part of the congregatioiItQleffly heard the doctrine, and, if they werliruck with any thing at all, it was only wklforoe brilliant ex-prtfTion, or well-turned period that dropt from the Do£tor ; J >feph. irags, gazing with aftonifhment, never to.'his eyes Irom the prea'-.her, but drank in witl;{?.gernefs all he hi id.—Trudging homeward,e was heard thus muttering to himfelf,—Jofeph tiever heard this before!—Chrifl Jefus,re God that made all things, came into ther.'orld to f.ive finners like Jofeph; and this is’ irue ; and it is a faithful faying.”|: Not long after this, Jofeph was feized withfever, and was dangeroully ill. As he tolTedIkpon hisbed,his conilant languagewas, Jofephn ttiC chief of finners; but Jefus Chrill camefjnto the world to fave finneis, and Jofeph loveshim for this.” His neighbours who cameto fee him, wondered on hearing him always‘upon this, and only this. Some of the reli'gi-;|pus iort addrefLdhim in the following manner:r But what fay ypu of your own heart. Joft-ph rfils there no token for good about it f No favingIchangs there? Have you clofcd with GhriiT,jby acting f.iith upon him Ah! no; JofephJlhas nothing'to fay fur himfelf, bat tl>at he isf the chief of lioners: yet feeing that it is a faith-Iful faying, that Jefns, he who made ell things,i Came into the world to fave fwnerSj why may(■not Jofeph, after all, be fayed?”i One man fi nding out where he j.ad got thisi doctrine, on which-he dwelt lb uniformly,| and with fo much delight, went and afk.dDr. Gala my to come and yiftt him. He came,I but Jofepli was now very weak, and had notj fpoksn for fome time, and though told of the! Doctor’s arrival, he took no notice of him ;• hut when the Doctor began to fpeak to him.ilhas foon as he heard the found of his voice, hinfHntly fpraug upon his dhows, and ft 'zinhiro by his hands, exclaimed as loud asCould, with his now feeble and tremblinVoice, “ O, Sir! you are the friend of thLord Jefus, whom I heard fpeak fo well thim.—Jofeph is the chief of finners, but it iat faithtul faying, that JefusChrift, the God whmade all things, came into the world to favfinners, and why not Jofeph?—-X) pray to thsJelus for me, pray that he may fave me: teihim, that Jofeph thinks that he loves him focoming into the world to fave fuch fmners aJofeph.”—The Dottor prayed; and when herconcluded Joieph thanked him moh kindly.|JL then put his hand under his pillo \, andpul ed uit an old rag, in which w re tied upfive guineas; and putting it into the Doctor’:;hand, (whic!- he bad kept ail thi? wb’le dolein h'2. he t!,us addrdfed him: ‘ -Jo-eph inhis fully, had bid tris up to keep him in hisold ago, bu Jofeph will never fee old age ;take it and divide i: among the po r (bendsof th Lord Je us ; and tell them tb. it Jofephgave it them for bis fake, who came into theworld to fave finners, of whom Jofeph i? thechief.” So faving, he reclined his head, hi§exertions in talking had been too much forhim, fo that he inftanvly expired.D o Culamy left this feene, but not withoutfliedding tears over Jofeph { and ufed to telltills little llory with much feeling, and as one  rn ; of the mod affefting occurreaees he ever met' with. — It naturally fuggefts the followingobfervations.i. Let us admire the fovereignty of D vineGrace: The whole congregation, whetherrich or poor, were finners in the fight ofj a holy God, and flood equally in need cfi| that Salvation, which by the gofpel waspreached to them. But while the elegantafTembly .heard it with lifllcfs attention, the, word of God came with demonflr.auon of; the Spirit and of power in the heart of JoJfeph,and fixed his attention by its infinite import-: ance. To what can we afcribe this cifference,:| but to the fovereign grace of him who “ willhave mercy on whom he will have mer yj who “ hath hid thefe things frorfi the wife andj prudent, and revealed them tobabes;” and hath1 “ chofen the poor in this world to be rich in1 faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath(! omifed to them that love him ?” To dil'plays power and fcvereignty of this grace, uiepottle tells us, that “ God hath chofen theolifli things of the world to confound the wife,d the weak tilings of the world to confounde things that are mighty,” for the exprtfsirpofe, “ that no flefli fliould glory in hisefence,bnt he that glorieth fliould glory onlythe Lord.” This is very different from tuenera! views of men. There is a pronerefsthe human mind, when convicted of fin, to> fomething in older to efcape the wrath of* God, and merit his favour. Many go aboutto efVablifh a r.ghceoufuei’s of' their own, not !iubr/iitting to the riglneoufnefs ot God ; whileotaers endeavour by their own exertions to lmake their hearts better, and ib prepare them ■for the reception of Chrift. Jofeph rad no ideaof fuch a way of falvation. When afked abouthis heart, if there was no token of good aboutit, no faving change; “ Ah! no; faid he, Jo'ephcan a£t nothing. — Jofeph has noticing 'o fayfor himfelf, but juit that he is the ciiief offinners,’' See.2. The gofpel produces love to God, antihis people. Jofeph had received the word,not as the word of men, but (as it is in truth)the word of God, and it wrought effeiftuailyin him believing it. He experienced the truth 1of the Apoftle!s iffertioli, IVc love bim, bccaufsbe firft loved us.—• O prav',’ lays he, ‘ to thatJ :iuo lor me.—Pray tha he may five me! —Teil him that J ifeph thinks that he loves himfor coming into the world to five fuch fmnersas Jofeph.’ Whatever may be faid aboutloving God for what he is in himlclf, it wasa lenfe of the love of Chrift manifeded infivhig finners, th t 11. [I attracted his attention,drew for h his warmeft affections, and occn*■ pied all his thoughts. Thus it is with every :inner laved by fovereign grace. A fenle of,the 'love of Chriff lined abroad in the heart bythe Holy Spirit, infallibly produces love, andthis is iliewa by univerf#! obedience to the(?)vill of God, and ftudying to adorn the doc-rine of God, by a lift and converfation be-:oming the gofpel. Jofeph could not nownanifeft hi? love-to God in this way, but hedoes it by fhewing love to his people, andha: becaufe they were the friends of his Jefus.vViien he heard Dr. Galamy’s voice, he ex-idaimed, “ O Sir, you are the friend of theLord Jafus, wiiom I heard fpeak fo well ofam. and whom I love for what you faid of.lim and ro this preftffion of love he addedin giving to the poorpofTeiTed in the world.fubfantial proof,ill!iend; of Jtfns all h3. The cof'pel is fuffieient to fupport thein n l in the immediate profpeiSt of death,o cph did not comfort himfelf with theh ught that lie was no worfe than his neigh¬bours, and. therefore as God was merciful,he would be fafe enough. The atonementcof Thrift was the onlv and exclufive ground(jof his hope and confidence in the view ofdeath, judgement, and eternity. Being jufti-fitd . faith, he had peace with God throughthe Lord Jefus Ghrift, and rejoiced-in hopecf the glory of God.THE ALARM.O "Op. poor fin -er, flop and think,youTartlier go!¥»’!!! y. u fport upon the brinkOf tverlading woe ?■PI 8 )Once again I charge you flop,For unlefs you warning take.Ere you are awara you dropInto the burning lake!Say, have you an arm like God,That you hij will oppofe?Fear you not that iron rod,With which he breaks his foes ?Can you hand in that dread day.When he judgment fliall proclaim.And the earth fliall melt away,Like wax before the flame?Pale-fac’d death will quickly come,To drag you to hh bar!Then to bear your awfuVdoom,'Will fill you with dclpair !Ail your (ins will round you crowd.Sins of a blood-crimfon dye;.. Each for vengeance crying loud ! —And what can you reply ?Tho’ your heart be made of Aeel,Your forehead lin’d with brais,God at length will make you lechHe will not let you pafs:Sinners then in vain will call,'Tho’ they now defpife his grace,« Rocks and mountains on us fall.And hide us from his face 1”But as yet there is a hope,You may bis mercy know,Tho’ his arm is lifted up,He flill forboars the blow I’Twas for finners Jefus died;Sinners he invites to come:N me who coYne fliall be denied ;He fays, 44 There Hill is room.’’FINIS.