IS [N u M B E R II.]OF THEill [STORYf ' ANDTRAVELSOF.HECTOR MACLEAN,Late SAILOR.XXXEDINBURGH;Piintd by Alex. Robertsom,I for HECTOR MACLEAN;And fold for Us own B:nc£t.m, bee, i xxtCPrice Two pcncc.J■ ■ /CHRISTIAN READER-MY deiign in this {hort treatifie, is only to fetforth onthcfe coiirle of many of my voges,curious oWervations in my fit'll: numberj and mthe lie, I only tell limple occurences, as they hap-| pntd. My reader I nope will forgive my fun*! pie innocet itiU-. And much have 1 been oblig-: c d to Ladies and Gentlemen of al l^anks, lorllteir favourable aco ptance of my firft number.I And tiiif my fecond, which 1 pubhfii at the de'-| fire of all my chriftian readers. My lovingI brothers the Saiiors; in every place I go to, has|. always contrabuted much to my dilkrefs, byI frnkly buying my fmall books, borne may re- '‘ S.d and lay my Imail book is high-priced, but-if tliey will coafider my condition, and weighmatters as they realy are, 1 hope they will eafelyI get over that fcruple, if there is any Inch men.| When I was young, and in tfie prime of life, Idid .not think on this way to get my fatal! liv-! ing, but as I am Hill contented, aud wonderfulyL provided for, I joy. inmy condition. An! when] any reflredlous for want of the great berHite ofmy eye figic, Ifoon get over it, and lo cheerya ii 1, that I ling my muniful ditty, (which!c.iuLed to be priuted) . tlarough every cay andtown whe-e I travel, and is thankful lor - very; half-penny I receive. My belt bieiiiug be onScoria,ud. and all the generous chriftimp w ho hasbeen kind aud indulgent to me, and all in diurelsj a!id long life and prolperity to all tailors, andlea-feeing men,is The Hearty PrayerOf Your DidrcfT d Broflir,li£C roii, M \C l i: v VjNUMBER II.Of the III S T O R T and travels,OfHECTOR MACLEAN,Late S A L I 0 R.THEPREFACE-I V my firft number, T gave tbe fads oat I'tkeany other ot the langmgt-s of a F-arnedman, as mv education is but ve-y fmail,(but blt-ffrr be C.od)my memo;)- is very good,and whit I treat «»f is undoubted fads, they arcnot adorned with that Oil- of cltqiicnce wichAuthon in this p elent age is capa )e ot Hutthey are diii^htfu! truth', and not founded uponial(hoods. < As too many impofes on the pub! r,in :his pretent age, mV condition *t life call’sUpon me to do all I am capible of in tins tr n-hrovy life I do not freet of my misfoi time as1 am deprived of the precious ben fiti* of myeyr iio-'-it, as better chnitian has infer dmuenm«tc° bo that whiitiocvcr condition I am in,2.Io’* m-y b- in. T amrrfolvpd to be content. Ipltbliu. nune of my books for Jtatiners or book-lellfrs, i on'y do it for the lupport of my im .11f imily, ard not with a view to extort moneyfrom the public by other handsAnd tlie v my readers an'* bcncfa&o'**, that Iam nota dro-iver, or animpofter; wiiit.h is wellknown and areOed by feveral Gentlemen, nGlaigov, and Greenock, where 1 ferved, andthe port« 1 tailed to, and fro’v. sn 1 ha' myCeitificate, which i cm produce if r quirtd.And the nameg of the Gentlemen, which is lullin prin. in my hat number.NUMB E. R II.TUT WIN j-iir my firfl: part, given a diferiptia^of my life; and hov 1 came to be a iailior,I (hall now give a relation of my advenotnrS^of what [ ieed, did, and was witnels unto, whichthe readers may depend upon as real certainties.At we (ailed one time out of Greenock witlimy own captain an (hip the Mattie, with 'whomI was bound, being ann:d as a letter o( marquefixteen earring guns twenty eght (weevds,and thirty-lix men before the malt; it being inthe time of ware in 1747- And as we left Clyd,the wind proved conterary (o that we had withmany more (hips for our lafety,to put into loch-ryan ; this lochryan lies on the well of Gala wayin Scotland, is bounded with high mountainsround about dpccialy on the north, it has cnirc-nce from the fea, by a narrow mouth on theweft,good ancQring ground where (hips canride in fafity in all weather; and here we layfor lome time. So it hanened one day, that ourcaptain being adlorsin tiie town of Stuuerawer,which ftandi on the eaft end of the loch (awhich time of his abtenc, he Boyn tender com>manded by captain Gentle, came into the lochabout' midnight, andj it being in rite menthof Oiiober,* and the weather being very cole’,they went from (Jiipb to (hip, and . itciieu themo!l of the hands in bed, but we having purwatch on deck, which gave our crew the alarm,fo that we all run to arms, and fired upontheir boats, and beat them oft fairly, their cap¬tain delired on his word of ban oar, toVcome on boardhimftlr only, which we did ailow,but none of hts m n; with whom we expofluat-cd :hr matter how unrtaUmabie it was to picfsmen outward btmd, who had protfl-ious, syid intheir captains abience, and having a deal of hishands prtffed from him before that, while helay at the tail of the bank below Greenock; to. which the faid captain Gantle replied, that liewould only take a nun out of every five of them,to which one N ftian Stewart a furious mad fel¬low, who flood all the lime in the gang way,with lira cuflefs in his hand- I wore bloodily ifhetouched a man there, he would cut off both hisaims, ard kick him ocer board, lien faid thecaptain to the mate, it you’H give me t at fel¬low I’ll leck no more, fo command your men toobey your orders, to which the mate anfwercdhe was but one man ; and they being fo enrag- !eel, could do on command him. then laid he I'llcttgLge the (Itip as toon as 1 aboard, whicht- accordingly-did, and he leg an to fire uponus, and we in return did the lame but fiaumgwc were too many for thim, di oped the q nrd,and fe.ng the captain was not an board, they ‘haled up the boats and went afhore whli their/mail aimv to t tfed themlelves. if need liionldbe, the tender feeing tins, maned their-boats andv,*m after them to Sidnraw'er, but diirft not a- Jtack th* m,for £l ey dr; w bp on the fliore wherethey all loaded, and iold they refolved to die" ,every man or one of them fi mild be taken, our ' Ic painc. ine on board direflfy for fear of hisIhip and one of then boats and the-litvtenqnt-came t n board again, and flail the captainwhere I f htul his mm, to which he faid he hadfiight-d them all away uu. the male one uoy and •1 — • "the cook, and a? It blew a little hard, lus fhipwas in dagger. I being affraid of my ieU, I wasordrtd by my captain to take a little ccHm,which I \v:pcd allonorli the pot bottom andthere with blacked all m> f ce, and being d.tflldin an old harn gi effy frock of the cock's 1 wasa mod antick figm e, what laid be. to my cantam,hive you no more hand but thatti iet like divel?go fir laid he into my boat, I ’<fuhd until! mymail r ordered me, and wou'd have him to takethe boy »o<> fmec be had taken the co,.k, but hetold him be had no ulc for boys, it was menhe wanted; no help f<>r me then but I muft go,and into the boat I came, and fits down bolidehim lie d< Gri d me to go afore amonslt the n Itol- the hands, b.jng a druid 1 Iholdd dirty histioatl s, to which i au woied och, och m, l latwch on ugh, I thank you kindly, which made thewhole crew laugh at him and mr, (owe ariyedat the t rdor at Lit, and they all went aboa:d,but T {till in the boat, as I had been to jo no.farther, the captain a Iked the lieutenant if hehad catclttd -ny ol t. c Matties hands, to whichIv nil we red only one, and up he comes to !ccme, looki g over the gunnel, twore 1 was cn-, ough to fright the very devil. What for a black°f a b -- was that he had brought himnow? how long have you been at <ca laid he,otdy two days in a tifhing boat laid I, and whatdid you do in the Mattie fakl he ? indeed 1 wasthe cook and m dc the meat 1 id i and howIon«• time would you take to boile a price ofj po, k laid he? about ilev« n or twlve lu-urs laid1, and ho > many mrn i« there on board of dieMattie laid he? bout bout, faid I, me does notknow,! sever count them, but make their urea( <*. >rtl (TH'-e you fix pence iiid he, to buy ginger-bi-c^d, and go a ftiorc again^and be d--- to you \a little after I was called aboard out of the boatinto the tender, where he feelt my h.mds aiidia;d heJbclivcd 1 might do, an 1 orarered m tovtalb myftlf, and get cloaths, in a little t!ic boat-• 1 wen cones paft and c is-, you. help to haul themun-lail, run tore and a it, bet wen the cubit) andthe forccalUe, 1 tramps o.i ms tots, wnicii lethim a curling me, laying what was I (cekingtliere; O! 1 in l tell ,iu where tiu iiuiu-yiidis, l a n going ti'.ere, at this he tworc i was amad mai to be licking die main-yard on thedeck, he iai > what do you not kho v the main-yard yet? and how thuuld I know the mainya.d?when l was never hcie before, l was-iux: or t «ed up to hand the fore top-fail, and bangwithout the clew, the other man dried ms, out1 ruled mine together, m a very caileis way,'the other man ' when done, went do wn, but £keept lying over the yard, holding by the lad,the boat-fwen call's out, what are you donigthere, do you want up your hammock? no ia,di, but^if l comedown the fail will fa, why laidhe, can't you put on tire grdkei on if, naiaia 1,and then lets it all tall down as it was, to-an otherhad ro mount, and I came down, but och mecu’ffes 1 got, be again lent me to tpakc r.ux.es,which l did the firtt two very well to his pf ai-'lire,but he was no fooaer gone than i took myknife and cut tome pciecs or tiieyarn, and Oi.ganto plct it' as a lingcl to maid an old Iho./nccomes again, and lookes ;-t me, laying wnat areyoud >iag now,-deed laid l, f am makru foxes( 10 )fwaring I a was the biutiU.cft larage ever heIced in his life.Ntxi day I was ordered out to htod the !fpik fail, i thoo^hr I v.oi.kl not isait to lofethe romans', but took out my knife and .cut them from the head eran cutid thu.ni all jthe way to the pari, as tke other mas’- bacle :was to me, it kilin the water, and had almoitpulled the oilier man along with it rJ he ciy>and curling rofe ybmit it and who it as, and !at lalt it was found to be m£, the lirrk Scotsman; whkhcaulcd them fvean I was either agreat rogue, or a great fool My Lift ajrd |wop.it adventure here was, thre was a gn at bigIrilh-man on board, who had Wen pnlfd. butwas rot warning to ft ay wiih tlam, he bud beena Imager, and dcP-U d he knew any thing aboutfailing^ be bad got no cloatking nor h; mock,but lay in the buhl upon re ps and old lath t < yit-|l| ‘ itiotied me lev oral times to let him fterp in myhanrdek when J was on watch, vrhkb l liundhe .might, knowing what Irttiation he was in, totaking him to fee.where my hammcck bungover the hold. And he trying to get into it, I1 p'4ve him a nip and down he goes to tin reiyLotem, among it the gravel and Hones avid th nmud our.-sbhdear i oncy, a be n*y food I amkilled, the little Scots man has frilled me, I ,ra- dead, 1 am dead. Next morning a cent t maft-ial' was called, and I was brought before tin. m,1' they afoed me if it was me that killed die Irill^f 1 told them l did not tut 1 drew* him{ 11 ;to be ft'ripei and whipi .irl wouTi* not confefsdircdly l hid kill-d him, aad white they wereftripin^ mr, they a iked lor wbat 1 kickid h mduwn to tile hold.*' why {aid 1 he was goij-.g in¬to my hamock, and I woulii not kt him, as heis all in a vermin of lice, bur laid they, how c.miyou prove that* O! laid l the its . . t i' onhim will prove that, the Jriih-jn ’ i wa li nt for,who came and toldjic was not killed hut idsthumb was ort joint, and he was much bet.crBow, come near laid the captain and let meknow if it he true the Scocb-man hays throwoii yor coat, wbuh he no ioontr did, than thevermin appealed in !w rms, on his wtftcoat,mule the captain cry mit he had an army fuf*fiennt to fei^ht the Fi\nch himltlf, were theyall hutnun rnt;rtals, and well armed, iuch aliguthe never feed, he. was •, no ugh to polutc the verydeivel, bt fides to defile Ins whit illips crew, foordered him to the gangway, to get fix duz nof ladles end then be was (tript naked on thedeck, and fait water pumped upon him, and rtill¬ed over with oat mind even icourcd as a pair©f i it fly. tongs1 fn m rep to t«e, his thuniD letin joint, and newly cloathed lo as le (aid the'Scots-man had neade lijm belt-r. So in twod iys th re after myorrti captain totiie on boardthe fonder, and I was 1< nt away with him, asthey thought I was not fit for their mm.AVer T ‘Vv'-d my t’rro ”:th Cap'-’^ ^ray,ard 'everal other voyages to fea m the 'ate v ir,I'wvm a.voyage wah Ck pmiu Coli n wmpb 11tn North Cuiolnu, and being Wded there Witfilumber, bound for Jrn.x:a; and of! the eart-cnd of Cuba, tel! i i vall a P'lench priva¬teer vvhvdi look ue prHo.i rs, and aaout e'^htthey ibipptd od all we liad Oui Captain hav¬ing given a pair of jilver UuckL s to his boy, he\> is no ooncr gone in:o the boat among ihcFrench ihat took us on board their* privateer,than they took them out of his fliots, whichgrieved the poof hoy very much: and aboutt.vclve that very day they had another engage¬ment, with ano h r -scutch Captain, VVySre, aK it* r ot m rque belonging to Gljt'gow. Wspriioners we e all tomai ndid down to the pitduring ibe egagement. and.as loon as any cftht*^French were wounds d, thereft tumbled th<m‘down to the doctor who was along with us;vrliich fall md the dathing tliry got with it, wasenough to kill iliewi .hither tvn.y were wound, dor not ti .every fee ond that w.is tumbled downwas a man cut in wo halv. s through the mid-dl., and in his (hoes-were the boy’s hlver buckles,whic i ! perc tved, and told m) Captain, then lietook out the one, and I the.other; lo the 11*low hid only' the pi itu e to enjoy thun aboutfour hours: the m yt tningtha comedown wasa great flame of lire, and was within a little oflighting on tin it m g z ne, which-wbukl haveundoubtedly blown us all in the air if it bad; one©t th< ir canons fplit in pieces a id kiled a gnatmany of them, m which veiy inlt mt they werercfolved to llrkc: But unluck ly for us ourcountrym n in the letter-of marque hid Itruketheir flag; and wc were all cu ried prifou isto Hafpinalo, where we were kept for (bin t'n-r,having about eigtu-en pencea div: on* 'b I ngfrom our own K.ng, and lix-pence from theFrn?di; b*fwa?rcli Tfd »t bft by a rartd ariicnt ovc with a tl.ig tru'c. in a icoon-| cr comraaw'cd by one I’aptain Firk anS Irifbiii m, who had amind to dtiver ls evaj| man into the fleet, then riting off kingflownI in w ich we nu looner u d rftood by Ids be*haviour v hen coming within li. ht ot the fleer*I we then lower’d dow n his f ris. { ut out the boat,and came aftiorc about 13 miles below kingfton,I he foi fear of hufl ma le liis ap.pt jogy, tliar we|i did v ry will in lo doing, tor in taking thej; boat ourfclvr s we fav< d his oath,as ht was Iwornlodelivt r us it; the At mir;d VV c were fo loon-er on (here tlan we called at the- flrli pub.li k h< u!e we coul! find anu refre(hed our-| fclvcs the lahd-h rd of which ; fked iis if weI were pnfoners of war, to which we anfwtrcd,1 w< was ; then laid he, f have orders to take youasl up for the let vice of the navy \vc boldly s fk¬ed ban by whom fe wcpld do lo? He fold us,h“ had three hundred negroes ; tin n we aH dre w, our knives, and iworc we would tut the heartsI out of him and his m groes both be fore one ofl us were taken, we being in all about fifty nu n,but had ho armour but our knives: Imm th^r.cewe 1-1 out through woods, a .*1 over the l iuhbluemoui tains l ciug affraid to go nearRt c fort1 It the foldicrs ihould tally out upt n us, fo wecam! that night to a wild plantation* wheretho t‘ w :s tv-black nt groe’s wedding, with aboutfive hundred n. g o s at it, artd not a w! ife per.ion antohgft them ail. we was grea h aflraiiof rhtm being lo many in nutr.btr, 1. ftihould ki',1 us in th« I'ight t me. but they prov-Jrd veiy kind j;ave us bre-ad and n m, and tflev .«d ns ti.e j ghi loud in the moruin^. %N e nextm*t wUh a black ncgroi in r!i? woo^s who dir-rcAcd as to another plantation, where we foun tab )'u two h'indreci men and womtn negroesworking at t e tugar boiling, and grinding rhefugar enat s, the ;r niafler c line and aflted whatwe wa- > and we Freely told him we were pd-fonersof war,'and that we had come that roadto avo;d being taken aboard of the man of war,h' then ordered us all to fit down, and fk d ifwecou’d drink any hot? (which is a jure madefrom fngar) But conti 'e ing it might do us,harm ordered rum punch, and every man a her¬ring and a p’antin, which is like a green bean-,co ’e. aik'mg what countrymen we were? Andwhen we tqld him there were fo many of usSro'chme”, he ordered till he Scotch to go upt > hh houfe, where he treated ns with the fineitof c icffer checfe, and the l>efl: drkrk his houfec<>u'd affordlie told us he was a native ofFalkirk in Scotland, whofe name I do not heremention ; he like wife lent feme of bis negroett/> hr o r guides; and ordered us to go intoK'"g(lon two by two, which we did, and here wefound our own fir ip, which was reuken Irufflthe French and carried 10 there*I Invlng now i great drflre aFfer the \vha1e-filhing, where I few a wonderful performance,done by a lavage Indian in the ftreiss ct St. Da- .viha; uc came oil the fn ore in a fmall boat made .of leather without and w uuis within, havinga |V< cc of wood iu h s ham! in fliape like a lonjj .oar, Hroad at both the ends, and rou d in liwuuodiev be It/okc fee water fit ft xiib cm eu*Itnid whh the other, tinu-about, with great fwiff*,nets nnd kept hi; coi.rie after a whale from onepart (he b.'cw in to anofht r, till at laft he can e[ up to her, jumped out t f the boat on the b ck| •! the whale, and as flic had done blowing out ,\ the water, lie flupp-.al in a fede, (a piece of lon^wood madj for rbe purpofe) into her blow hoi-,| where her bre ath cemes out; <o when flic cam-up again flic had no breath, b. ingall chocked| in a moment, fo fne inUantly died, and the rdtt cri the Indians came eft from the fhore, like aflock of gn] mrwsin their leather canoes to hisj aifidance, bawled her alhore, and and ett hef'[ blubber both raw and unroafted., Afcer this I went to the CrecRland fi.l'.ipgij. which I liked extrendy wdl, and laibd wuti'i| Captain M4<CaHum in the ptincefr of wales: Af¬ter we arrived at the ice wc were id. let to pot;/>» our ditTercnt llations.l. only care and Attention was fir ft to hrafthe blowing of the whales breath, and fpomingup of the water, which 'hey do to a-protigumsj bight in the air, and the node of their breath isi like a mighty wind at a d;dance; wv keep £.Umanner of jilcnce, comes in Iwhind her, or a.Ion *fi K of her, thed u ts orbarpun are witteredshave the point, to that when it got s fa rly in if-! causot be drawn oui without the woum* be mademorr; the Jin'- or fmall cord is made laft to theKit of the bar pu t, which line ke-s with to-kukeb^at t''e whale no fooner gefi the w®ond withth* ha punt un (he dives down/and i;uis for it,an I luwls the boat after lier by the line, withInch iwUtncls that tbfy need to row no more,hui (- ts tbeir oar up as a maft, by way of a ti^nt th.Oiip, and thoicoihcr b.ati about her.Thit they .Voice a fi(h to coti? to their aid,ktt they ihould nerd help, or their line runout,f'V they mud lometim s pay it out with luchtpeed, that one has to throw water upon thebo its- ftetu lead it thould take tire: a:id till th.irline b ake, or the harpun tl:p, no other thip*crew mud throw out a dare at her. She.unsw tliout red only up to blow out the w .ter, a^dtaka breath then down again, and rum lo farIk low water before die rife, if (he runs belowt e ice and riles there in a miftake, it weakensh r grea ly ; by foundering herftlf on the U 'tand bring U‘ pi ived of breath. I was in the boacnay,elf in cbace ot one, when (he turned androte dinc&'y below our boat, and carried uslip out e»f the water on her back, as on the topof a bhek ro k, but providence was lo kind,that our bo.t hurled down by her broad Lde’for bad we fait n down before h« r. (lie bad runus down, or had we come down behind her, flicWo 11 froVe cur boat in peice , with a iwailiof her tad.We w4s 'another ti ne ant on the Urn- witch,and lying to bolide the ice, hilening to hear thev * / fblo'v of fctm* ivh il.; a» I looked alonjr a frr-atway off on the ice, 1 law l:k« a urcat while < xcoming Mining toward u«: wl.icli proved u» Oea great bear who lud found the (inell of us:we ro ved off from the ice tlfnking be wouldlux take the water but in he carnc with a plunge,and afier us h: comes; one of our harpiueersmakes a nole.i or loop, and molt dtxteioifl^thro vs it about hi* mck, aud hawk, him in tothe item, for had he n me a-long-licit of u*. wehad been overfet, Uv his weight and ltrcngth,tix< d his long claw? in'thc llem he rope kept himdofs to, while vve thrull d l;-.nce imo iis thro it,and with one.of ho g*eat lore pa vs he g ippidthe lance and bowed it fo, that it was ai titec ming out till we run in another on tne otherfide or hi* throat, and altei a. tedious Urtiglcimd bloodaig, txpncd.The lk?n was fold for fire guinea* in Elitvburgh, but I would afii|t at the killing ol twen¬ty wh ile* or I engaged inch a monltcr dgain.We likevvilc brought home two young otar*witli us, and as our cook was taking th m upto ludiubui gh, one of them inaptd off his thumb.During the life war, I was taken by the rVencljand retaken, and'afrerward* prclf d bn tncvoaltof Ireland and terved kx years aboard tlit; m^ilof war, was aboard of the Hero, and with Ad¬miral hawk when he b. at the Frenc h fleet in c-pj»rpa-bay, ot which battle i iliail give a rclauopof jt in tills jpart of 'my lupok, at rf',e enX off*c war I vv's lifcharjTcd from the Hero, an.l re*tunii'd to Ci.eeno k Amt engaged t© s;oa voyage10 Vi» - uta^Vkh Ciptam Wilfum Clark, cona*Itiar or of'tiie E lyt-fnow, wiun lying atf')«bor in Greonfock-rhorie, waiting a fair wind;I got a fall down on my h ad againfl an anchor iby wh’di accident my h ad was lo teiribly erulh-ed th .t the liluod t li down in ny eyes, and inone nighti time I loft my fight: which is knownin and about Greenock, and ia attefied by fevc-rnl Gemkrarn el charaSrr *, and have applycdto die fuppofed i»tfi Dodlo s in Britain for therecovery of mj fij;ht again, but to no purpoie;vrliich is the can ft of my traveling in this nua*xer f*r my bread.Having form-vly premised to give an accountof what 1 faw at the bait1* of Breft in Capron-bay, which 1 d > not raind-txaftiy whither it wasin the year Fifty nine, or Si tty; but we waslying oft Falmouth en the South coaft of Fa*,gland at anchor, being s'fleet ©f twenty-fivemen of war, under the < command of AdmiralHawk/ at midnight the mtchgence enme froroFrance of the Brell-fleet, at which time ourAdmiral gave the fignal by-firing a gun, whichwas to weigh our auchoi's and follow him,, whichtprasdosic dircAly. and about eleven o’clock nextday we was off Brelt on the coaft el France,where the French fleet was coming out in greatJiomp and fplcador.- When they faw us theyormed the line a head to the number of thirtygreat capital ftrips of war and we were onlyt-wmty-fWc. J'h? (hip I was i* was called tintHero, command d by * aptain F.atch-comb,Otto anted y^ Guas, out; Adiiiiinl'i fhip was the( n )floyal Geor'e an ! uv)a:U;cti an boMred ant?twelve but 'va pie ced fur aa h inclmjami lift tn. B t veeft ihrco and fou; in the af*t rroon we can: to ait-ioa, the two F. c .cfiAdmirals was in t!:e very mi.Idle of the F>euc*>file, lioth tog tiler . wc knew them by th-.irLi ge white flags : Our brave Admiral M ivkflood on the gunnel of his own flr.p arid order,ed her to he run dire^'y bjf tv en*he t wo Fn-ttcJ)Ad iihvds, and when oppofiee to bah, hivingha ro ts <>p-:i and all things ready g ve eachof ihrnn (ucii a hroul fid -, as cut down b >tbth ir riggings, atid made llieir whole broad fi lesah-ve tire warm op \ is the aide* of an oldbig houfc: this fatal blow given to the t\vjAdm'v.U di couMgal the whole Fivnch fle«nd give the refl ot me Eigl fli tb et the lelsto d >; th Dnk - of V > k was on Iviiird oatfhip and hehe ivtd like- a h ro: Bat bid. ed meny <>1 the Eigiidi Ih ps t ere g >t tit le to d >,bn to took on art! lave whir !iv s th y could?for form of the French ibips being intii tly finkjotheis wi ll t icir mads and ri gi cut c caiway, the Tailors an I minus wi.h c. trag:-«boxes on their bellies c m>- fa timing painslike flocks of wil l ducks, loin erving “ 0 Jme’cy *mrcY dear Ct >it v / glaleer’ our p,tain ordc red out a b at to lave wliat th* y xddof th m, but after tiu-y had t.k n in who thebo u co dd hold, they caroo o u.kk thtt thebo it iv 'S overf* t and all pen h cl: and our Cap,tain wou'd lufler no m >r.- Ivnfo m he lanfhed,I he Duke r ceived a lliot between w nd andw iter, wnrch w is like to prof her rum, theyyocked their chain pomps a t) all th y had towo;k to keep her above., but Hid £i„ water in-C 20 )crp^fcd withmU anil uii in, and hone couldre .cli th like idl at Lift a kotchnun, a nitiveof Gia'^o v c^lkd J im ■ Kcllburn Itriptd andjumpid overboard, d vi'd down to ihi lake anditod-d it with a piece of be f,ih n they pumpedout the water an : got to ii wiihin, and to lavedthe fhip: for whicli lingular action, the iai i K.d!.burn wa? made a mid (hip man a? toon as he0 c me on ho’r l, hefides other comp'imcnts, andhis r cometidatlon to the Duke, the Admiral,and the board of admirality. Night comingthen upon us, we purfutd the French fleet wh tjj remained of them into the bay, then anchored! in the bay rear iV iiiij!.-,to Keep them fi om com.1 ing out, for their tranfports witii their land for-I ces did not enme our of the rivet uniill theyI law the fate of the bittle, and when tl eyH knew it they dil'mbuik d dittflly the ic-maindcr of this fleet, we block*d in there atFreft for the Ipace of leva:teen months, fo% that they dm ft never 1 ok out, or if th y did,'h their reception was fo hot that they foon putabout, -for the English men of w :<r lay ftaiion-I ed uere bytitm^.and k< pt the palfage i ithcr fromr going out, or coming in. VVe wi re then or*d red on a croule towards the coaft of Spain,f our. Captain intimating the voyage to us, weJ had a man on board who's n me was Gi bcrtI'ayhor, a Scotfmm ami native of Aberdeen,•who was either a progaolt tenor o. a he wi'ch,i no v laid he to the t' ’ptaio, w c ih iil have a pro| fomms vpyage, and on the twcnry-ievcnui ofj. n sr raonsh we (Itall catch a pr z.j <b away wecame fo' atr anchor oft C.tp.ti utter, where welay for fofnc dm--' and on the laid day the Gap-l tin called on fayb'r. at d l a ', Sir d.d m t you| jayi th if ddj J»y wc thou d cmcha Fp cmh pr z-,j «.t Itaft. a i hue marked io to my book; y c*SV faM l»s, and \i fou'll pat about to Tea y'i3wiJi_gct her fet: io a vay we came ciufing Gil.her! ut a high rate ami in a (liort time we came! in fight of a Fi ench privrtetr. whi<-h had talceaan Englhh fhipand was carrying hf r into Sp.iitygives them chace and takes them both. Thi*nude many of tire Engl lib fail or s believe, thatmany of the Scots were div els, or more thanmenThere wa» a iitrle Irilh bny aboard of afltip,which made m my admire him (o, h s ready wir,j; it blowing very hard on- day, amt the bey be.ing taking up fomc {alt water to walh theJ k tfl-, the kettle drops over boird, the Mate, f:t .ng thi?, was taking up a rope to beat him: , ^kh, ilup flop, crys the boy, done b-at mei? r Male, until I tell the Captain of it, thej Mate follows him to the cabin do; r to hear>| what < xcvi'e hs would make for hiiuklf; ai ra| dear Caplin, {ay*-the boy, ha tiling loll whm| p ople knows where it is? no {jrruh! 1 id he,I bow can t be loft, when )ou know wlvrc i is?Ah : then dear Captain, then your tea kettle isf Ib n mio the loch an 1 ) cannot g;;t at it, thiimade the C ptain and Mate, both to Jan^bi fetal t»ly at the jock, and forgive the poor boy.An account of two (hip<3>oundforNrw.foiv,i3 >Land, from fmue part in the Weft ot'Enw!uBljv-hoin hy diftrets of Weather, !o!l Company*{omc d ys after, hting bid weather, one of tketb ps (prang a leak, and foundred in the Se-»nv he, t f v< ry boul perifhed, except one old m in**! o l>-fhr fe’mblf on U,e main h.tch, anjfomuuuul ijiia.fck to u*v mercy of tlic 6ta .( i* )C«’’s ''roviJence vvlicr he wi» flo'tinjj thrc«da)s a d three ni^ht : in which time anon: the |iviide 1: of the lect nd d,;v h. Dc.il idiom nn * jM i c ’•raid flans i p h tore him, at u mo i,mjhe « f go'd heart, for, if he would bu: make a |Ci n rad with him, he would ingage a deliver- jarce tor h m in 94 hour*; tbe v Id man b<.mg |t. xifiblc it was the Devi), and doubtlvls, having |Veen proving of h.s htatt to God, as tin ciuum. !ftance r:t Providence he was undci, jnoie im- jin diadily called tor, Pound in himh 'f a nn.'v. |td ftiength put into him ina1 ling him to hold 1up hi? hted. rrd locking the temper in jjihf facei Rep ys, 4 Ah Satan, it tliou cai Mtpropbe cy dvl'vc ranee for me know, my God,ir wicmltiufl. will dehvc*-me wiihout thypel '; hut however, kf ovv I will not comply tot'y cite* th re fore .vryd Satan, av<iyd. Soimnv di ily he Van (h d, and appeared no moreto ! :m: hut !<• i’ ftl out. the o:h r flalp beingst th..t time m tht t me porril or lat tude, th- tl ight the Cal ill B J dreams a drc. m thai Inch®* |li:p th rr a t uf- vva^ 'oi ndud a.’d eveyh ul l »lt x • pt Inch an «Id nv n namting I iipam ,who w isfavid on a p»ic oft' e ,llvp,.iiidfo -ling in Cw -ca; which dream, the Roy irthe morning crmfi k-ntly t lb ii to th«. comptnv .ad hi; matter; at Lit the B ,y begin ufli \v mvr. col d' nee, affirming ir, as if it nmflc rrw . ntom c!i,ht 1 teeived iome checks frot:l i ma'tci but ho vevtr. iit Lit, he Boy grofo rdtid.s hattic runniigup from one m. tto anotnrr t: inte rn s. ai tore-top malt ht<an ! then f eint off he main-top mart heatJ,: k ng abioad th..t at lift, oyina out aloud« Mow the e. I ec )iim t uc him und-r o»c Lc bow; tim* 6®*.fideiitly afli.mi. g il, iuuf 23 }ef r’-e mpn ftppt up, an * 'ipy’<I fom^rhin^ at C4 ftant« no !%^cr than .1 i.io.-v to }»p ai incefloating, which advil d the W »(Vcr it wtiu p cler tly cominaiirft (1 the Htlm f» be b iru up. amiftooi' away to it, ard whin conn near, h um; itthe old mar as the Bu> fad; 1«» th y boy It catthiir Boat, and tr uk him in, who th n was1 pet chi l», and hnoft Iptnt: bit y the can* ofthe Maftcr and Surjeun ami tiod’s bbflin^,1 errvered ai d gave a vckdaic. uu of hi* ims-foi iu c, andytt wondi tu tli-tranc. locefir•with Sat.ms tmpta ion as b» fore r-ecitid: whrebflip, in due time arrived tate at lur r^-rt in> e w found* L; ud, whtic Uiu man was well land*td a-flioie.This lafi Story, yru will find in the Iroi'k•rd td the Ki mat sable .'seadvLvUai.ee, wi vi®lj Mi j uk* J ueways.A. D V E H T I 3 E M E NT.P 0\ m - till-! nl ! ft nunVr> w,iic,i I*• hope w il gi/ gr jvval fatbfx& ou a-itwiltgite a (hart atvl oir-sicular accoua^. of the pro-tucc » Icrcral loumri s jWit • the mi«r- i s of li- I.ihi *'tant«, their cuftoms, theirI-we. ei v*Drarnt, and relict, n, ^Vith f >trera’ c»n >ii b^jfrrvitiou^ and the bcharWurof t *l'ute'i an I l fti • n tlioic pa'-t,, < ijheworM, and thr high dt.em the Nativei bearsto h Brirains.N f* P'ic- zd whie'v will only- make fitp "rr. ell my th : Numbers.fm in it trd ihrir oar*-wilMw t'okrn of ra kN* I’l’tr, o pr#(‘rve tliem U'td this n7 !aflN'-nnVr -e fi i od, an ! t*> Pub'ic.may tie; ;. 4tlwt it fhrf’l >c dune w;t!t all coavenitm fpccd.The the Seccad P A R T>$ •