THREE EXCELLENTNEW SONGS,CALLED,Peggy Hawn’s Court^YipSweet ings the Mavis,A N" DThe G1 afgcnv l?ackrnan>F A L K I R vprinted and s-ld by- t5(* )PEGGY BAWN.A LOVE SONG.As I w&nt o’er the Highland hhiSto a farmer’s houle 1 came,The night being late and ioineihing wet,I ventured into the fame;Where I became a courtier,and a handfome young girl did ’fpyWho a Iked me if I had a wife,but this I did then deny.I courted her the whole night long,and a while of the next day,’Till fun ply fiie to me reply’d,along w'ith you 1 11 gaetFor Ireland is a bonny place,and bonny men therein,And I will go along with youmy fortune to begin.Night being come and Tapper o’erwe went to take our tell,The go®dman to the goodwife faid,be kind unto your gusli;( 3 )For this couititfr is an Irilhman,an Irifhman fo brave.And if he (lays in this country,our daughter he fhall have.The day being come, and breakull o erto the parlour I was ta’en.The goodman kindly aftced me,if I’d marry their daughter Jean:An hundred merks I II gie to thee,b. flies e piece of land,But; fcarcely had he fpake thefe words,till I thought on Peggy Bawn.Your offer fir is very good,and I thank you too, faid I,But I cannot be your fon-in-law.I’ll tell you the reafon why:My bufmefs calls me in great haffe,I’m the king’s mefsenger boundI cannot be your fon-in-law,till I fee Irifli ground.With hat in hand moft courtiouflyI took leave of each one,Efpecially of that pretty young girl,whofe wearied with lying alone.( 4 )I bade farew 1' ard came auar,but in my m-nd u ran.Ho^Wyth and merry w re tl.e days1 Pcnt Peggy Bawn.^ ^ Bavin I am thine own,nj} heart lies in your breatt; ’And tiia we at a di/iance are. ^ J°ve you the bell,Alchcugh we at a diliance are-nd leas between us roar,Pll couftant be dear Peggy Bawn,to you ior evermore.SWEET SINGS THE MAVIS.How fv.eet lings the mavisamong yon green bowers ;STt winlpeis tiie breeze,^ gently fweeping the d..lc;Toe bee homeward b.neing,lorfakes the rich flowers,And the fhepherd’s f ft u.ei.uyfloats at ihf gale.THE GLASGW PACKMAN’;Jam s Klr, that h-*3 a packmaa bold,ihr i i! the; c untry known,Stan s in n. {h p in w town,Jimes Ker d th call his own :Woen he had kept this gr>< dly thop* twclvem ,nth and a day,He feiz’d the tllwnnd valiiintly,and t himfelf did fay :What Kots it, mar ! to t p and thrive,all m a lh p f rh rn iI’ll hire a h rf,, I’ll fptnd a pound,: s fure as I ara b rn !Wn.jt time the preachings, like a plague.duperfe the Gl^fg w beai.x,And if cks of g fpel-niininerscome cawing in like crow's:A gay gelding James Ker has hir’d,for which he pays a crown ;And lie that never rode before,anding now is gwne.Wh^n o’er the bridge, and f rth the town:and pad the toll, I wet,James wav’d his whip aloft in air,the hjrfe began to tr.t.Blythe o’er the meadthe mi'k-nird trips liiintly«Nj care-cankered th ugatt bs her cheek of the rofe:C ntented and gay(he chants her lovs-duty,’Tis inn cence nlythis bleffing bellows.Around yon neat c ttsge,where wild fl wcr? bloom gaily,S ft deals the pure dreamdown its willowy ih re;There meek-eyed c ntentmenthas oh fen her dwelling.And Pe.ice, fodlv Smiling,reclines at the door.How fweet from the dangersof life’s ftormy oceanSecure in this havenof peace to repc (e,To tade the pure pleafure,the heart-felt emotion,That innocence, innocence,only bedews.Tramp, tramp, along the road he fpeeds,the fparkHng pebbles fly !Huzza ! Jimes Ker c-in ride apace !Ah ! why d il b :mp f high ? ^And now, a village, calm and fair,fc.ft nfes to the view ;Witj d< gs and cats, aud wives at doors:Says Jarxtes, What lhall I do lThe wives did flare, the dogs did bark,the cats allounded fled,James fcarce c ula fit the Saddle-tree,n r dat’d t > turn ids head.A churlifh cur, a terrier li-rce,with hideous bark and bay,Purfu’d the horie’s tr tting heels ;J* es damn’d the d g away.But fUU it ran, and bark’d, and bay’d,the wives began to fli ut;James rous’d his heart, aud whipt behind Jhe c >uld not l»ok about.Sometimes the lafh it bit the h ufe,a. d fuller n went he ;Sometimes the d g it touch’d-day j . r es.What ftiill become oi me !( s )At length to defperati< n rais’d,he lathes with efF.ct;The v. hipilring, with a manful fmack,kn ts r- unci ihe terr.i“-r's neckWcii done-, veil d nr, we true he’s n ine’ the g tilefs Gla g' w gang;. But a player lo n f -m L nd n come,the c g, the dog he’]] r.ang.And hang’d he wss ?.nd dngg’d by Jamestriumphant through .he town;And ilill the village wives pr clairathe rider 1 v.t.’s ren-wn.Sr ye fee '..at pra.fe and fameftill wait up n fnccefs ;V-; d t & witu f me. men flight of art,is neither more nor Ids.N vi• let us ftng, L ng live the King,ami may he, hkr James Ker,R... f • h, and .Vt 1 is •»'hiptlring enddrag Nap the Terrier.A' J rv I S.—'2< y.Lrrahn} Frviler.—i8iy,'