Fairy Tales,CONTAININGThe Stories of Cinder ilia.OR, THiLittle Glass Stepper *LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD.Princess Fair-star and PrinccCbtrr),AMDebouli sinato WHICH IS ADBEDTHE FAIRy SONG:?tinU4 by J. Moitsw, CWgat«STOJIY of CINDKPJLL* ;OR, THE■■ » . ' ■Little GH|S SLIPPER./^\NCF, tfcere wa* a gentleman, vho married farhis fecond wife. the prouckli. and moft haughty'W'amaa that ever was feen. She had by her for*l^er.hufbaud vwo daughters,, but of her own hu-3 sour; w!io were indeed exactly like her in allthings lie had like wife, by smother wife, ayoung daughter of an unparalleled goodnefs andiVeetnefs of temper, which fhe" took from hermother, who was the beft creature in the worldWu fcK#aer were the ceremonies of the ^weddingiort.'r but; the mother i«4aw began to lljew herfelfia /ier colours. She could nat bear the good qui^litiiss oif this pretty girl, and the leis becaufe flicme ds htir daughters appear tho more odiru*. Sheemi ploy ed her in the meanet work of»the heufe.Ibf fcoured the dikes, tab t, &c. a*d rubbedm .dam’s chaaber, &r.J t« - of the raifLs herdifia ghters; file lay up in a very for. garret, up¬on a wroteked flraw ked, while her Sifters lay infinie rot ms, with floors ail ialaiJ, upen beds ofy’tr very ceweft fafc’cr.. Her tovka were thoenly panion fee had, and when her fifterswent vail ihe used to take the opportriiity ofreading theirs.Thcyoor girl bore all patiently, and dared notto teli! b r father, who would ’ svs rattled her•If; for/T is wiff: governed him eatirely. VVhs«ihe had done her work flic ufed to go into tfc*'.:himii*y«oorner, and fit down axr>«ng the cindenrind a&ea, which wade her conmunly be called.dnder-brceCT); but the voungell who vra* notb ruie and uncivil ns the ehiell called her Cin~lei;lla. However, Cinderilla aotwithflanding hermean apparel, wa* an hundred timis handromec-:hai either of her fitters, tho’ they were alwayaircfsed very richly.It happened that the king's sod gn»e a ball,and invittd all perfona of f»Jhion to it; out*lyofrg mifses were alfo invited ; for they cut •ivery grand figare among the quality. They weremightily delighted at this invitation and wan*Idarfully bufy in chafing out fneh gown?, petti¬coats, and hend-cioihes, as might bett becomethem. This Was a new trouble to Cindorillaforjt was (ns who ironed her fillers linen, and clear*ftarched their ruffies; they talked all dav lang ofnothing, hut how they fiiould he drett, and wer«continually looking >1 their glaffe*.Bor my part, fa id the eldelt, 1 will weir my redvelvet fuit with French trimmings. And l faidthe youngell, fh .Ii only hare ray usual petticoat;bat then, to ®a»e amends for tha., i will pat cmmy Rold flowered roantua. and my diamond fto-inachcr, which is far from being the moft ordinaryone m the wnrld. They frnt for the beft tire wo-®*n m!k6 u?their head-drefsesand aajult their double pinners, ?nd had their redPsudS an<i FaUlitJ fr°ra Madaa''°'felia De laCinderilla was like wife called up t« be confult-«<i in aU thole matters, for flae had excellent no-u^ aad advded them always fer the bell • navoifered herferviee to drefs fheir heads,tket were rery willing (he flioull io. A» Ike wa«deing tfeii, they faid to her, Ciaderiila, ^onld youaot be gi«d to go to the ball ? A,b! faid (lie, you |only jeer ree, it is not far fueh as I am to go to !halls. Thou art in the right of it replied they; jit would make the petite laugh to fee a Cinder- ;breech at a ball. Any one but Cinderilla wouldkave drefsed their heads awry; but file was vervgood and drefsed them perfeetly well. They werealsseft twe days without eating, fa much werethey transported with joy; thy broke a dozen «flaces, in trying to be laced up close, that theymight have a fine slender (hape.At laft the happy day come, they went to court,and Cmderilia followed them with her eyes aslong as fhe could, and when Qie had loft fight ofthe in, fee ell a crying.Her Cod-mother who law her all in tear*a#k~led her what was the mattter ? I wiQi I eould [*. with I could. She was not able to fpoak the reft,being interrupted by her tears and lobbing. Thist god mother of her’*, who was a fairy, faid to her,I fhoa wifheft thou couldeft go to the ball i Is itnot lo ? Y-es, cri«4 Cinderilla, with a greatfigh.Well faid her god-mother, be but a good girl, anai 1 will contrive that thou fhalt go; run into thegarden and bring me a pompion. Cinderilla wentibunediately, gathered the ineft (he could get andt brought it to her god-mother but was not ableto imagino how this pompion could make her gefcto tha ball- Mer god-mother fcooped out all theT’lnfide of it, leaving nothing but the rind; whichcdone fee firuek it with her wand, and the pampima' —’ “araed into afinacajK*, gijt gjiShe then went to look into her nvwfe trap,'where &« found fix mice all alive, aud orderedCinderilla to lift up the trap-door a liule, whengiving each moufe, as it went out, a little tapwith her wand, the mice were that moment turn- 'ed into horfes, which altogether made a very finefet of fix hoi fes, of a beautiful jet black. See hereI the reward for every geed boy and girl.Being at a lofs far a coachman, I will go andfee fays CinderiHs, if there be ever a rat in the1 trap that we may make a coachman of him. fhoui «rt in tj»e right replied her god-mother, go andlook. Cinderiila brought the trap to her, and init were three huge rots. The fairy made choiceof one of the three which had the l«rg«ft beard,and having touched him with her wand, he wa*inftantly tamed inU a fat jolly coachman, with apair of the fmvteat and moft beaudful whiskersthat eyes ever beheld.After that, flic [aid to Ciuderilk, go again into,the garden, and you will find fix lizard* behindthe watering pot, bring them to me. She had nofooner done it, than h er god-raother turned theminto fix beautiful well areised footmen, who ship.,ped up immediately behind the coach* with iheirclothes all trimrasd with gold and Giver, snd clungas close behind each other, aa if they had don* no¬thing else aU their whole lives. The fairy the*faid to Cinderilla, well, you fes her# an equipug-efit to go to the ball! are yo,i not pleased wi:h it ?Q yes! cried file; I am extremely well pleasedwith it; but muft I go thither as 1 am, ia thefenasty puanedjrag* ? her god»mother only touch¬ed her with her wand, and at the fame isstant,her clothes were turned into cloth of gold andfilver, bedecked with the richest jewels that eyevwere fcen » any prineca’i retinue, in the wholeworld. Tim done fhe guVe her a pair of glafa■lipppri, which for heauty and elegance, far lor-pafsed any thing of the kind everfeen before.Being tbiu drest out, she got up into the•oheh; but her godmother above all things com.JBanced her not to stay till after midnight, tellingl»er at the fame tin-»e, if file staid at the hall anylonger than twelve o’clock, her coach woulda pompicn again, her horfes mice, her coachmana rat, her footmen lizards, andher clothes becom.just as they were before.She promifsd Ler godmothar &e would nol-fail of leaving tfee ball before it was midnight;riu? SVray ^ droTe» fcarce able to containItenelf for joy. The king's son who was told that» great prinsefs, whom nobody knew, was com?,yah out tA receive her ; he £ave her hi, handta foe lighted out of the coach, and in! «er intdthe room amang ail the company. There wa#unmedictely a profound filence; thcyjeit off dan.ting and the violins cgnsed to play ; so attentivewas every one to contemplate the lingular beautyof this unknown new-comer. Nothing was thenfieard, but a confused noifeoflfa! how handsomeike is! howhandsorre flie is! the King hirafelfcould not help telling the Queen softly, that itwas a long timefince he had feeu fobeautifui andlovely a creature. All the ladies were busy in•onfideriog her clothes and head-drefs, that theyought have fome made the. niaxt dav after thesame pattern, provided they could meet with ftchSnemv trials and as able lands to make them.■The .iiug s fon conducted her to the moil honour-abls leat, and sfterwards took her cat to dancejvitn him; fhe daticedfo very gracefully .chat theyall »iore ami more aGmired her. A fine collaliovras ferv«d up, whereof the ate nota m'-rfel fo intently wa» h' hufy in gnsing on h2r.Shs trent and fat down *'7 her lister*, {hewingthem a thoufand civiVnie*, giving them a part ofthe orange* and citron*, which the prince had pre-fented her with; which very much furprifedthem for they did not knew her. While1 Cindei-illa was thus amusing her filter*, she heard theclock strike eleven and three quarters ; where¬upon flic immediately made a ccurtefy, and hastedawey as fast as fhe could.Being got heme (he ran to feck out her god¬mother ; acd after fc&ving thanked her, fits saidlie could n#r. but heartily wifh lie might go nestday to the ball, becaufe the king’s fon had tie firedher. as flie was eagerly telling her god-motherw^gtever pafsed «t tha ball, her t%> fillers knock¬ed at the door which Hinder ilia ran and opened.How long yos have stayed, cried (he, gaping, rub*ing her eyes, and stretching herfelf, as if (lie hadbeen just awaked out of her sleep: She had nethowever any roamer of inclination to sleep fine*they went from heme. If thouhadst been at theball faultier listers, thou wouldest not have beentired with it; there carae thither the fined, pria-cefs, the moft beautiful ever feen with mortaleyes : fhe' fiiewed us a thoufaad civilities ; andgave us oranges and citrons. Cinderilla feemedvery indifferent in th» matter; indeed fl:e askeuthe name of that princels; but they t*ld herthey did not know it; end that the king’s fonwa» very uneal'y on her account, and would givetil tbe world to know where (lie was. At thi* ,Cinderilla flailing, replied, ffe tnuft then be veryb: autiful indeed. Bless me hew boj py y< u have**«!. C#n4d I not fee her? Ah J dear MifsChar-»»te, do lend me your yellow fuit ef clothe*• .XoU ^ear every ^ay* -Ah! to be fu-re«rie» Mifs Charlotte, lend my clothes to fuch adirty Cindder breech as thou art, who’s the foolthen i Cmderilla indeed expected fome fuch anfw«r; and w«i v^y glad of the refusal i for fhevould have been fadly put to it, if her fifter hadlent her m eamefl, what (he asked for jehingly.The next day the two lifters were at the ball •and to was Cinderilla, but deefsed more magnifil•ently than before. The king's,fan was always byher, and never ceafed his compliment* and amor¬ous fpeeches to her; to whom all this was fo farfrom being tirefame, that file quite forgot whather god-mother had recommended to her; f© thatfte at laft counted the clook ftriking twelve, whenfile took it to be no more than eleven; file thenrofe up and fled as nimbly as a deer. The princefollowed but could not ovestAe her j ilie kft be¬hind one of beliefs slippers, fellow to that (hedropped. The guards at the palace were afted,jf they had not feen a princefs go out ? who faid,they hsd feen nobody go out, but a young girl.Very iheanly drelt, who had more the air of a poorCountry girl, than a gentlewoman.When the two fillers returned from the ball,Cinderilla asked them, if they had been well di.verted, and if the fine h>dy had been there ? Theyt«d her, yes,.but that (be hurried away imme¬diately when it.Hruak twelve and with ib muchliaftr, th,at^Cie dropped one of Iier littie glafs slip.pers,the pretliefl in the world, and which the: kiBg’sfan had takenup ; and that hehad done1 ^ mbthifig but locked at her all the time ef the ball,v*ihd that certainly he was vrry much in love withthe beautiful perfon who owned the little glafsslipper.What they faid was very true; for a few daysafter, the king’s fon caufed it to be proclaimed,by found of trumpet, that he would marry her,whofe fcot that flipper would j’aft fit. They whomhe employed began to.try it upon the princelseg,then the duchefses, and all the court, but invain it was then brought to the two filters, whodid all they po&ibly could to thru ft a foot intothe slipper bat they could not effect it. Cinderilla,who faw all this, and knew her slipper, faid tothem laughing Let me fee if it will not fit me fHer fillers burft out a laughing, and began to ban*ter. The gentleman who was fent to try theslipper looked earntfi’.y to Cinderilla, and findingher very handfome, faid. it was but juft that IheIhould try, and that he had orders to let everyone make trial.He obliged Cinderilla to fit down, and puttingthe slipper to her foot, he found it went on veryeafily and fitted her at if it had been made ofwax The amazement her two fillers were in,was exeefsively great, but ftill abundantly greaterwher Cinderilia pulled out of her pocket the oth¬er slipper and put it on her foot. Thereupon incame her god-mother, who having touched withher wand Cindeiilla’s clothes made them richer’and more ma^nifient than any of those fire hadbefore.When her two fillers found her to be the beau¬tiful lady they had fees before at the ball, theythrew themselves at her feet, and btgged pardonfor the ill treatment they had mad-her undergo,Qadcrilla took them up, and as Ike embracedthem faid, that (he forgave them with all herliheart, and defired them always to love her.She was conducted to the youeg prince, who :married her. Cinderilla who was no lefs good Ithan beautiful, gave her two fiRers lodgings inthe palace, and ; t fame day watched them withtwo great lords of the court.TheSTORYOFLITTLE RED RIDING.HOOD.I'XNCff upon a time there lived in a certianvif.lage, a little girl, the prettied creature thatever was (een; loved and admired by.all, not onein the village could compare with her. Her mo¬ther was fond of her to a great degree, and hergrandmother much more fo; and well they might,(he was fo good mvtured, fo fweet tempered, andfo ready to oblige ; atd befides never mifged herprayers twice or thrice a day for her mother,grandmother, and all her relations, and everybody elle Ihe could think of. It being cold wea¬ther her grandmother had a little red riding-hood made for her to keep her warm, and fhclooked fo very pretty and pteafant when Hie hadit on that by e very body Ihe loon gained the nameof Little Reii Riding-Hood.Her mother came one day, knowing that hergrandmother was ill; ajid having made feme eul-tar#« and clieefe-sa^eB, colled h«r, and faid, Mylitile Biddy, (for that was her name) go and feeyour grandmother, and take also wtih you fosnecbftards and oheefe-cakes, and this pot of butter.The little red riding-hood was foon put on, andout ihe fets to fee her grandmother, who youmuft obferve, lived at another yillage through awood.When (he came to the farther end of the wood,fee was met by gofsip Wolf, who, being a verycruel creature, had a mind to eat her np j but asfome faggot men were at work in the forreft, hedid not dare to it: but .by his deceitful fpeeche*tried another way to de.Uroy her, and like a trea~cherous knave, alked her where Ihe was goiog faearly.>The pretty innocent child, who thought soharm herfelf,anddid nut know what bad companyfile had fallen into discourse with, fai^) I a» go¬ing to my grandmother who i* not well, with ucuftard, and a littfe pot of butter, which my mo-thet* fends her. At which th# cuunine wolf a|»if the lived far off?-A great way below yonder mill, fpoiutingwith her little white finger) in the village youfee yonder.Well, faid the defigning Wolf, I will go and feeher too; but I wil go the other way, do you gothatj I will bj there as foon as you. So the littlugirl went through the meadows, gathered cow¬slips and violets to make her grandmother's win¬dows fweet and fine: for it was in the montliwfMay, when those flowers were is their prime.The Wolf, who knew the neareft way, aridwent much lufter than the chili was not long be¬fore-he got to the graudmother’s house ; when hequoth the good old woman. Your grand-daughterBiddy, faid the wolf, (imitating the child’* voice*s much as he could) and l have brought youfome cuftard and a little pot of butter which mo¬ther has fent you. The grandmother, t^ho wa*ill, and in bed, bid her pull the latch, and thedoorwould open, fo the wolfpulled the latch, went in¬to the room, and with his great teeth and raven¬ous appetite, foon ate the poor old woman entire¬ly up, (for you muft underiland he was very (harplet, having had nothing to eat for three or fourdays before.) After he had eaten up the grand¬mother, fee like a cunning vilian. thought how hemight deceive Little Red Riding-Hood, and de¬vour her alfo. So he ihuts to the dobr very close•gain, and rolls himfelf into the grandmother’e-bed becaufe he was fare Little Red Riding-Hoodwould foon be there.A little time after, file came and knocked atthe door toe toe. Who is there ? quoth the trea-•herous wolf. The little harmki's Red Riding-Hood hearing fo gruff a voice (though he had diLfembled as much as he could) was afraid at firft;however not knowing but her grandmother mighthave taken a great cold, and (o be very hoarfe,/he said, it is your granddaughter Biddy, and Ihave bi ought yon fome cuilard and »little pot ofbutter, my mamma ftnt me with to you. TheWolf anfwers her in as foft a voice as he could.Lift up the lauh and the door will op-in; whichfile did, and coming to the bed-fide, the perfidious#olf hiding his ugly head under the clothes andfpeakiag in a faint tone, faid, put the euXard andbutter on th« ftootrand come into bed, for l amvery cold./The goodi?aurs and kind tej*per"of little RetfRiding-Hood made it not long before fbe obeyedthe commandi of her grandmother, undrefsed her-felf, and went into bed ; bat was fadly frightedat her grandmama** long ears, which ftared oyerher night cap. So faid the ehild to her (feelingher arm*) Blefs me 1 grandmama, what greatasms you have got! They are the better to em¬brace thee, my pretty child. Grand-mama, whatgreat ani ftrcnge leg* you have got I They arethebettefto run, my child. Grand-mama whatgreat eyes and long teeth yoy have got l Theyare the better to fee you, and to eat yon up.And as foon as he had faid theie word*, this wick¬ed wolf flew upon poor Little Red Riding-Hood,and eat her up.TBSSTORYorPRINCESS FAIR STAR,ANDPRI CHKRRY.nPHERE was a princefs, who having gone thro’* feverai misfortunes, had nothing l*fc cf allher paft grander. She took a pretty little hcufc• *4 'aigti a great city, end made the beft fr)ca«ee« andragoats imaginable infomach that flic had a con-nderable trade.One day there came a little woman to herhoufe. I am come faid flie to the Princefs, tosnake a good meab before I die, that I may brag Ihave had one. As the princefs had at that timeher hands fully employed, fhe called down herthree daughters, whofe names were Roufetta,Rrupetta, and Biondina, but the youngell was thehs*idiomsft and beft natured. 1 he daughters ibon-fet before the old woman a very good dinner* ■which flie ate with an extraordinary appetite,^vv hen (lie had done, ftie rofe up faying, Honedfriends, had I any money i would puy yor ; but Ihave been poor thele many years and wanted foan enterta'inment as you have "^iven mehowever a [sure yourfelves. the fa ft wiih youmake without thinking on me, /hall be completed3 hen (lie went away leaving then^ feme reafonsto think her a f.iirv.One day the k.r.g going a hunting refolved tocall at the honie, to fee if the princefs was as.Potable a cook as flie was reported to be. Thethree lifter were in the garden gathering ftraw-benirs, when he pafsed by Ah 1 faid Rofetta*was l fo happy as to marry the. Admiral, I boaltthat 1 could (pin thread enough to make fails forhis whole navy ,Ard I faid Brunetta, was myfortune io good that 1 fliould marry the King’sbrother, 1 would work lace enough withmyneecS^to hang his palace 4rd I fp.id Biondina, woimlthe King have me, i boaft at the end of nine,tttorihs, to bring him forth two fine boys and agirl, with ftars in their foreheads, and chains ofgold about their necks, from 'A’hese'hair, bunging;OneTfT ,r.,n*f> »‘ouId dr°P TaluaMejcreteclZf/ 16 km!*J ^Vournes overhearing the dtf!courfe, went informed the kin- thereof whoordered them to come to him, and bein!> charmedthe oth^V^ tld bU,brother’ and admiral,va* the mo'-'0’ ^ 7 n” the clueen-»1other wholint f Cruel of a11 won5en« heard that the^ure bfrn^r^ aiar.riedt° tWOgiri«thTwhol' c^n?': ° “ fri8ht'The fair queen and the princefs were unit-a hvt‘tfl^bUlRfietta —d the Atne r good fortune; which made her enter intwhe queen-mother’s raeafures who only waited19 d° and BloSL aUJSiSSSjwe the qu^en ; 0„d feein/fucf ch7™t'‘ ,S'ot?rrd ??' «“ •>«<*» w no^l™ ra4„' 'creafed, and (lie refolvedto fr'er k wiiii *pSHiPb^r three children, and that of the princef* de« -ceafed. This project was approved of by the in¬human queen mother, who ordered Fein lisa, one ofher maids of honour, to fetch the whelps, anddrefs them in as fine linen and laces as the queen’schildren fliould be, and put them into the cradles ;as for the poor queen, fee had like to die withgrief, on feeing the whole litter of whelps He byher, not knowing that the old queen had orderedFeintisa to take the four children and Itranglethem, but juft as flic was going to execute thatfatal coromifsion, feeing the (tars in their fore¬heads, which (he thought might portend fomethingextraordinary, durft not lay criminal hands onthem, but put them into their cradles on board alittle boat, and with feme jewels committed themto the mercy of the fea.The King whofe thoughts were always on hisdear Spoufe, havieg concluded a truce for fometime, returned with all fpeed heme, and arrivedabout twelve bouts afteJ.her delivery ; bat whenhe heard (he was delivered of whelps, he orderedboth them and her to be put into a litter, andfent home to her mother’s, where (he arrived al-snort dead.But heaven looked with a more favourable ereover the Prir.cea and Princefs; fo after floatingout to fca, they were taken ap by a Corfaii, whobeing touched with the beauty of tbeie children,and hav ing non:; of his own, turned back, andgave them to his wife, to be educated and broughtup as their o>vn; but they were not a littfe fur-prifed, when they eame to comb them, to^ fee:■eweis end diamonds fall out of their hair. The;princefs they caUee Fair ftar, the. eldest brotherBright fan, the fecond fan Felix, and the Pri«.Cefs7* fon Cherry.They lived with the Corfrir and hi* wife tillthey grew up, when they exprefssd a great defireto travel; the Corfair agreed to their requeft,and they fet out altogether, and t-aTelled till theywithout knowing it came to the very place of •thdir nativity.The new* of the arrival of four fuch extraor¬dinary perfonages, foon reached the ears of the^ueen-Kother ; who collecting the circumfknce*or the stars and chains of gold, wa* struck withamazement, and retiring to her clofet fent for*emtife, who coming half dead with fear, castJierlelf at her feet, told her all &e had done, andpromised to d«»roy them.. Accordingly fee vent to their houfe, and Ininaintroduced to Fair-star, complimented her on herbeauty, but told her (he wanted one thing suiteneceffary, and that was the dancing water, whichbad the power of making every one haadfome tothe greatest degree that was poffefsed of it, andadded, it was no where to be got but in the burr¬ing forest.Cherry, when he went home from hunting, o»-ferved Fair»ftar to be sorrowful, and asking herthe reafon, fee told him. Cherry, who loved hergreatly, took no farther notice of the affair; butwnile his filler was bui'y, mounted his horse androde away.He travelled till he came to the top of a hill,and being feint with the heat of the burning foreft,flopped at a rivulet to drink, when he had donadrinking he* perceived a turtle drowning, andtaking j.iiy- on jTj and having wiped the feathers,put ir in his bosom, where it recovered*I?Prince* Fni<3 the turtle this i* not the Gi ft tim*I have received Fi^nal favours from your family.I have it in my power to reward you: follow tne.Cherry did fo till he eame to the mouth of a vaultthen jumped dlTh'is horfe, and the turtle conduct.ed him to the fountain ; he immediately filled aYefsel he brought, and pull id tw.o hearty draughtywhich made him ten times handfomer than he wasbefore ; fo mounting hU horse, returned home,carrying fome of the water with him to hUfifteAThe restlefs Festinia knew, by her fpies, thatCherry was returned, ai.d that he and his fister,was. more beautiful than ever. However, fii6 con¬trived to fee Fair-star cgain j and congratulatedher on Ch5rtyfs fuccefs; but told her at the fametime flie Ihculd thiak of getting the fioging ajiple,Which was a great embelliihmert to the wit, andbefide, fung.lo fine, that it ravittied all that heardit.Cherry heard of. this by chance, and when allwere gone to bed mountvd his white nag again,and fet out in fearch of the apple. After feveraldays journey, he perceived in tne road a turtle al¬most dead, and taking pity on it, wiped the fea¬thers which were bloody, took out of hi* pocketa box of an admirable ointment, and no fooner ap¬plied it to the wound of the poor turtle, thnn itopened its eyes, strttched out its \<inys and look¬ing at Prince Cherry, laid, You are destined tolave my life, and perhaps I may do you as lignal a,fervice, follow me. and l will aiiift you in this en»terpriie. 1 he Prince let her go, and followed hertill they came to c great mountfiin ot fp.nd Dighere find the turtle, which he accoi.lincly did,fbmetimes with his hind, and fometimcj with his.fword after forae hour* hard working, he fotmia complete fuit of armour for man and horfe, allof glais ; he had however fcarce got it on,befotethe dragon that guarded the apple, came roaringtowards him ; but when he faw his own terriblefigure multiplied fo many times in the Prince’sglass-armour, he ran away, frighted to fee so manyfuch monfters as himfelf. Arttr that. Cherryfearching about, difcovered with joy the beautifultree, and breaking of the bough that bore theapple he made haste back to prefent it to his bi¬le ved Fair-star.IVhen the wicked Feintisa heard Prim*Cherry’s success Ihe could hardly contain herfelf;but repaired to Fair-stir, who as foon as fhe fuwher. cried. Ah f  .her, cried, Ah | keep your advice to yourfelf/foTi l recei ve are great, they makathough the benifits I ai C greai, mey taaicanot^amendi for the anensinefs I am under. You.Jiiuit nOtwithTianaing that be told, raid Feintisa^that you want the little green bird, who tell*every thing; and then left her abruptly,fair-star reflected how great pleauire it wouldbe to them to know their parents, and thereuponcried ; Cherry, who came in foon after from hun-.ting, saw it and alked the cause, which {lie refufedto tdl him ; he thereupon threatened to kill him.tell, and by that means extorted the fecret fromher but for infilled, that hefoould not with hislife feek to fatisfy her defires. However as loonas foe and her brothers were retired to theirchambers, he mounted his horfo again, and wentaway without faying a word to any one.The Priuce wandered up and down, asking allhe met where he might find the Green Bird, tohe ihort. one morning by fun rife, he perceived aroc/, Which U'is very high and craggy, and ontheaotop of it, the bird talked like an Oracle ; Cherrythou^hu he might catch it with very little troublefince it appeared to be very tar,..*. He alightedeff hi* horfe, and climbed up without making anynoife, when all of a hidden the rock opened, andhe fell motionlefs into a large hall. His two bro¬ther* likewise fet out with the fame hopes, andMet with the fame misfortune.# air-star feeing none of her brothers return,wa» inconfolable, and without further hefitation,ordered their fervant to stay fix months, and ifneither fhe nor her brothers returned in thattime, to go and acquaint the Corfair and hi* wifewith their deaths. Then drefsing herfelf in man’sclothes, to fecure her from any infults on herjourney, Feintisa had the pleafure to fee her fetout on her Ifsbella btrfe, and immediately ranfull of joy to regale the queen of the news,* Fair-ft*r in her way law a turtle dove, r.e leftwhite nor cold than the fnow it lay upon, andtaking it up, faid, What {hall I do lovely turtle toftve thy life? lo which it ^m£wered, One fweetVifs fairftar, will finiSi what you have f.i chari¬tably begun. She kitted it itnrreciately, and theturtle reviving, laid, i thank you foa what youhave done, and now I will do fomething for you.'When you come to the. rock inllead of attemptingto climb it, Hay at the bottom, and pretend to beasleepj when the green bird fees me, he will comefrom the rbek to peck me, and then you mutt takethe advantage and catch him. She did fo, and bythe directions of the turtle took a red feather outof the green bird’s *.ing, and touching the rockwith it three time*, the enchantment was broke,Bad her brother* with many others fet fr*-;.tlWK«n the kin* heard of their return, he lentSor tkiin and their curiosrtie* to court, where thegreen bird gave an account of their birth*Neverwa* joygre5ter than their*,their motherwas fent for. and while they were embracing eachother, the Fairy appearing, told them how {hehad jwotected them under the lliape of a turtle,and all upon account of the charitable receptionthe queen Blondina gave hen Cherry to com¬plete his happinefs was married to Fair ftar, whobefore he took for his filter. But aa for the Qoeenmother, Rosetta and Feintifa, her maid of hon_•ur, they were fent into perpetual punilhifient.THESTORYorEBOUU SINA.SIN A, a Cage dervicc, had passed thenight in the house of a poor woman,-who hadt\erci*ed all the duties of hofpitality towardshim, he was touched with the unfortunate condi¬tion to which Che was reduced, and refolving tofuccour her in her misfortunes, he loofened a ftonefrom out of the wall of the house, and pronouncedCome word* over it, placed it again where it wasbefore, and peireed it with a little pipe, at the4Hd of which he put a cock, then laid to tbs w.*<-rnsS a; hb ret^rr^u her hi* Uiankj, and bid her.Wdieu.good Mother, whenever you are in wantof necliaries turn this cock an-1 drnw out as muehwine as you please; take the qua fity that is ne-eefsary for your own use, and cary the remainderto the market, He assured that the fource wiif•ever fail, all T exact ot you is, not to unlocfe theftone, nor to look at what I have put behind it.The goodmoman promifed (he would not, and du¬ring fome time oblevved what the holy man hadrecommended, to lier. Sl.e gathered riches; af.flirence and plenty foon reigned in her iittle fa¬mily, at length curioGty became fo flrong withinher that file submitted to its dictates, fiie displacedtlie Clone, and found nothing behind it but oneAngle grape; (lie then replaced it in the fame or-dcr Qie found it, but the wine ran no more : Thuswas ihe by fatisfying her idle curiofity punifheslby the fame want (he before experienced.ASONGs»KC BT THEfUEEN of the FAIRIES.Come, follow, follow me,Te fairy elves that be,Idke tripping ct,r the grec*,Ctaie follow all yenr Queen l*•}ilaud in hand we'ii dance aronnd.'!iror lliii place is fair;’ ground.When mortal* are at rrft,.4fld 1'noring in tlveh- nett,Uaheard and unefpiedThro’ key holes we do glide ;iver tables, lloob, and {helves.We trip it with our fairy elves.And if the houfe be foul.With platter, diih, or bowl,Up {fairs we nimbly creep.And find the fluts asleep:Then we pinch theia arms and tid^'is,INone us hears, and none us fpies.But if the houfe be fwept.And from uncleannefs kept,We praise the houfehold mafrid.And furely fhe is paid:I very night before we go.We drop a teller in her (hoe,Then oe^r a roulhroom’s head,Our table cloth we fpread;A grain of ry« or wheat,The diet that we eat;i Early drops of dew we drink)n com cups filled to the bsfctc.The baains of nightingales*Whh unctons fat of snails,Between two cockels_ Is meat rhat’i t-afi!y chev.*’d;Brains of worm?, and marrow of mice,Do make a feaU that’s wond’rous nice.The grafliopper, gnat, and fly.Serve for oar minftrelly ;Grace faid, <ve dance a while,And fo the time beguile :Bat if the moon doth hide her head.The glow-worm light* «x home to bed.O’er tops of 'ewy grafs.So nimbly vfifHdopafs,The young f tender ftalkNe’er bends where we do walk ;Yet in the morning may be feenWb^re w« the night before have bt«».■ r/Tr t n i *•