***4*>-M’4*#***-#***--M M-***♦B FOUR*!INTERESTING TALES,#*•#•***■« F♦tI fttt♦ ♦*#■*-*••#*>H**t**♦♦♦A SINGULAR ADVENTURE.THE ROBBER.THE RED NOSE.THE NEWFOUNDLAND DOG.if*#*H‘i'ip4*■If-'*-■t*4k*-4»-4*■**■#*ntt4 #■4-»'■*#PRINTED FOR THE BOOKS98.SINGULAR ADVENTURE.The following singular adventure of a man named JohnColter, is taken from Mr Bradbury’s Travels in theinterior of North America.Colter came to St Louis in May, 1810, in a smallcanoe, from the head-waters of the Missouri, a dis¬tance of 3000 miles, which he traversed in 30 days.I saw him on his arrival, and received from him an ac¬count of his adventures, after he had separated fromLewis and Clark’s party. I shall relate one anec¬dote for its singularity. On the arrival of the partyat the head-waters of the Missouri, Colter observ¬ing an appearance of abundance of beaver beingthere, got permission to remain and hunt for som«time, which he did in company with a man of thaname of Dixon, who had traversed the immensetract of country from St Lewis to the head-watersr of the Missouri alone. Soon after he separated| from Dixon, and trapped in company with a hunter{ named Potts ; and, aware of the hostility of theBlackfeet Indians, one of whom had been killed byI Lewis, they set their traps at night, and took themi up early in the morning, remaining concealed dur¬ing the day. They were examining their traps early: one morning, in a creek about six miles from that' branch of the Missouri called Jefferson’s Fork, andj were ascending in a canoe, when they suddenly; heard a great noise, resembling the trampling ofi animals ; but they could not ascertain the fact, asthe high perpendicular banks on each side of the; river impeded their view. Colter immediatly pro¬nounced it to be occasioned by Indians, and advisedi■4an instant retreat, but was accused of cowardice bjPotts, who insisted that the noise was caused bybuffaloes ; and they proceeded on. In a few min¬utes afterwards their doubts'wtere removed, by aparty of Indians making their appearance on bothsides of the creek, to the amount of five or six hun¬dred, who beckoned them to come ashore. As re¬treat was now impossible. Colter turned the headof the canoe ; and, at the moment of its touching,an Indian spitfed. the riffle bolonging to Potts ; butbolter, who is a remarkably strongman, immediate¬ly retook it, and handed it to Potts, who remainediff the canoe, and, on receiving it, pushed off' into. the river. He had scarcely quitted the shore, whenan arrow was shot at him, and he cried out, “Colter,I am wounded !” Colter remonstrated with him onthe folly of attempting to escape, and urged him tocome ashore. Instead of complying, he instantlylevelled his riffle a,t the Indian, and shot him deadon the spot. This conduct, situated as he was, mayappear to have been an act of madness, but it wasthe effect of sudden but sound reasoning; for, iftaken alive, he must have expected to be torturedto death, according to their custom. He was in¬stantly pierced with arrows so numerous, that, touse Colter’s words, “he teas made a riddle of."They now seized Colter, stript him entirely naked,and began to consult on the manner in which heshould he put to death. They were at first inclinedto set him up as a mark to shoot at, but the chiefinterfered, and, seizing him by the shoulder, askedhim if he could rim fast? Colter, who had beensome time among the Kee-katso or Crow Indians,had in a considerable degree acquired the Blackfootlanguage, and was also well acquainted with Indiancustoms ; he knew that he had now to run for hislife, with the dreadful odds of five or six hundredagainst him, and those armed Indians; he thereforecunningly replied, that he Was A very bad runner,although he was considered by the hunters as re¬markably swift. The chief now commanded theparty to remain stationary, and led Colter out onthe prairie three or four hundred yards, and releasedhim, bidding him save fiiinself if he could. Atthis instant the horrid war-hoop sounded in theears of poor Colter, who, urged with the hope ofpreserving life, ran with a speed at which himselfwas surprised. He proceeded towards'the Jeffer¬son Fork, having to traverse a plain six miles inbreadth, abounding with the prickly-pear, on whichhe was every instant treading with his naked feet.He ran nearly half way across the plain before heventured to look over his shoulder, when he per¬ceived that the Indians were very much scattered,and that he had gained ground to a considerabledistance from the main body ; but one Indian, whocarried a spear, was much before all the rest, andnot more than one hundred yards from him. Afaint glean of hope now cheered the heart of Colter,he derived confidence from the belief that escapewas within the bounds of possibility ; but that con¬fidence was nearly fatal to him ; for he exerted him¬self to such a degree, that the blood gusbed fromhis nostrils, and soon almost covered the fore partof his body. He had now arrived within a mile ofthe river, when he distinctly heard the appallingsound of footsteps behind him, and every instantexpected to feel the spear of his pursuer. Againhe turned his head, and saw the savage not twentyyards from him. Determined, if possible, to avoidthe expected blow, he suddenly stopped, turnedround, and spread out his arms. The Indian, sur¬prised by the suddenness of the action, and perhapsby the bloody appearance of Colter, also attemptedto stop,—but, exhausted with running, he fell whilstendeavouring to throw his spear, which stuck ift theground, and broke. Colter instantly snatched upthe pointed part, with which he pinned him to theearth, and then continued his flight. The foremostof the Indians, on arriving at the place, stopped tillothers came up to join them, when they set up ahideous yell. Every moment of this time was im¬proved by Colter; who, although fainting and ex¬hausted, succeeded in gaining the skirting of theCotton-tree wood, on the borders of the Fork,through which he ran and plunged into the rivei’.Fortunately for him, a little below this was anisland, against the upper part of which a raft ofdrift-timber had lodged. He dived under the raft,and, after several efforts, got his head above wateramongst the trunks of trees, covered over withsmaller wood to the depth of several feet. Scarcelyhad he secured himself, when the Indians arrivedon the river screeching and yelling, as Colter ex¬pressed it, “ like so many devils'’ They were fre¬quently on the raft during the day, and were seenthrough the chinks by Colter, who was congratulat¬ing himself on his escape, until the idea arose thatthey might set the raft on fire. In horrible sus¬pense he remained until night, when, hearing nomore of the Indians, he dived under the raft- andswam silently down the river to a considerable dis¬tance, where he landed, and travelled all night.Although happy in having escaped from the Indians,his situation was still dreadful; he was completelynaked, under a burning sun—the soles of his feetwere entirely filled with the thorns of the prickly-pear—he was hungry, and no means of killinggame, although he saw abundance around him—and was at least seven days’ journey from Lisa’sFort, on the Bighorn branch of the Roche Jauneriver. These were circumstances under which al¬most any man but an American hunter would havedespaired. He arrived at the Fort, in seven days7having iubsisted on a root much c^tc' med by theIndians of the Missouri, now known by the natur¬alists as psoralea esculentii.THE ROBBER.In the year 1662, when Paris was afflicted witha long and severe famine, M. de Sallo, returningfrom a summer evening’s walk, with only a littlefoot boy, was accosted by a man, who presented hispistol, and in a maimer far from the resolutenessof a hardened robber, asked him for his money.M. de Sallo, observing that he came to the wrongman, and that he could get little from him, added,“ I have only three louis d’ors about me, which isnot worth a scuffle, so much good may they do you,but let me tell you, you are in a bad way.” Theman took them, without asking for more, and walk¬ed off with an air of dejection and terror. Thefellow was no sooner gone, than M. de Sallo order¬ed the boy to follow him, to see where he went,and to give him an account of every thing. TheI lad obeyed ; followed him through several obscurestreets, and at length saw him enter a baker’s shop,where he observed him change one of the louis,and buy a large brown loaf. With this purchasehe went a few doors farther, and entering an alley,ascended a pair of stairs. The boy crept up afterhim to the fourth story, where he saw him go intoa room, that had no other light1 than what it re¬ceived from the moon, and peeping through a cre¬vice, he perceived him throw it on the floor, andburst into tears, saying, “there, eat your fill, there’sthe dearest loaf I ever bought: I have robbed agentleman of three louis ; let us husband them well,and let me have no more teazings, for sooner or8later these doings must bring me to the gallows,and all to satisfy your clamours.” His lamenta¬tions were answered by those of the whole family:and his wife having at length calmed the agony ofhis mind, took up the loaf, and cutting it, gave fourpieces to four poor starving children. The boyhaving thus happily performed his commission, re¬turned home, and gave his master an account ofevery thing he had seen and heard. M. de Sallo,who was much moved, ordered the boy to call himat five in the morning. This humane gentleman aroseat the time appointed, and taking the boy with him toshow him the way, enquired in the neighbourhood■ the character of a man who lived in such a garret,with a wife and four children ; when lie was told, thatlie was a very industrious good kind of a man; thathe was a shoemaker, and a neat workman, but was overburdened with a family, and had a hard struggle tolive in such bad times. Satisfied with this account.M. de Sallo ascended the shoe-maker's garret, andknocking at the door, it was opened by the poorman himsolf. who knowing him at first sight to hethe person lie bad robbed the evening before, fellat his feet, and implored his mercy, pleading theextreme distress of his family, and begging hewould forgive his first crime. M. de Hallo desired.him: to make no noise, for ho had not the leastintention to hurt him. u You have a good charac¬ter, among your neighbours,” said he, “ but mustexpect that your life Avill soon be cut short, if youare now so wicked as to continue the freedoms youtook with me. Hold your hand, there are thirtylouis to buy leather, husband it well and set yourchildren a commendable example. To put you outof farther temptation to commit such ruinous andifatal actions, I will encourage your industry ;I hear you are a meat workman, you shall take mea¬sure of me, and this boy, for two pair of shoes each,and he shall call upon you for them,” The wholefamily appeared struck with joy, amazement, andgratitude; and M. de Sallo departed greatly moved,and with a mind filled with satisfaction at havingsaved a man, and perhaps a family, from the com¬mission of guilt, from an ignominious death, andperhaps from eternal perdition. May we not sayof M. de Sallo with Rowe ;—UoW fe\V, like thee, enquire th<5 wretched out,And court tho ofliees of soft humsuiily.Never was a day much better begun ; the con¬sciousness of having performed such an action, whenit recurs to the mind of a reasonable being, must beattended with pleasure, and that self-complacency,and secret approbation, which is more desirable thangold and all the pleasures of the earth.THE RED NOSE.Dry den’s definition, “that the soul is fi little Lluoflame running about within us,” must flash eonvicition upon the mind of an infidel. What render*the thought yet more admirable is, that it is farfrom an inferior description of love ; for, if love benot also “ a little blue flame running about withii^us,” what is it? Rut, whatever difficulties obstructthe definition of the passion, few are ignorant ofeffects. The biographer, the critic, the mathematiccian, the geographer, the historian, and the natural¬ist, deviate imperceptibly from the point, to relatethe wonderful effects of love.—The monarch forgetshis inequality, and kneels ; the minister flies thecourt, and sighs ; and even the fish-woman, as shebears the ambrosial brandy to her lips, acknowledge!the power of love, and calls for more ?10Maria Hargrave was the daughter of a clergyjuan: her teeth rivalled the ivory; her lips vie?with the rose ; her breath emulated its odoriferous,ness; her bosom palpitated with love; her eyesparkled with voluptuousness; she had wit and good !nature ; confidence and modesty; judgment andgenerosity: the graces danced in her train ; theloves smiled at her reproach. In honest truth,Maria as infinitely excelled the Sophias, Clarissas,Emilys, Stellas, Narcissas, and Sacharissas, asEclipse did Rosinante.But, alas! nothing is faultless.—Perfection is buta word. In Maria’s face stood a nose, modelled byenvy ; in magnitude surpassing the invention ofSlawkenbergius; in colour!—did but the tithe of itadorn the countenance of death, half his terrorswould disappear, and we might press him to ourbreasts in mistake.Our heroine was none of those self partial maidenswho conceive themselves little short of excellence,whilst the world distinguishes nothing but imper¬fection ; no, she had accomplishments sufficient tohave been proud, and beauties enough to have been Ivain ; nevertheless, she was sensible she had a rednose, and was humble. Would to heaven half theladies in the universe had red noses!Possessed of such desirable qualifications, Mariadanced away her eighteenth birth-night without alover. She obtained indeed a transitory admirer ;but the moment her sister Charlotte appeared, themolles oculi were fixed upon her, leaving poorMaria to cogitate upon her nose in solitude. Itwas vexatious ; and had she conceived that tearswould have quenched its rubicund glow, or diminish¬ed its longitude, she would have wept: but she ex¬pected not miracles in her favour j and as, amidstall the panaceas she had heard of, she had met withevery thing but a cure for copper noses, sho wisely11determined to be content where discontent wouldhave availed her nothing.Though Maria was the first-born, Charlotte stoodnot upon ceremony, and married, “Now,” saidMaria, “ if my nose be not an insurmountable ob¬struction, the conjugal road is without impediment.”As she finished the sentence, Mr Conway was in¬troduced : he was—in short, he was six feet high.When Maria perceived the skirt of a coat, sheinvoluntarily applied a kerchief to her face. It re¬quires so much magnanimity to expose a red nose,unabashed by observation, as to conceal a handsomeone beneath a mask. Conway was struck witli theexa#h symmetry of her form and the gracefulness ofher motions. A man is ever in a hurry to be inlove, and ever in haste to be out again. A fewmoments conversation satisfied Conway that Maria’ssentiments were just, her judgment powerful, andher imagination delicate ; that she applauded notbefore she understood, nor simpered forth thanksfor those indiscriminate compliments which appearto convey politeness, but which originate in con-( tumely and disdain.—Thus in a little hour, to theeyes of Conway, Maria breathed a phoenix. He hadnot seen her nose.Man is a weathercock; the child of caprice, theoffspring of inconstancy. At the moment Conwaywas on the eve of confessing that the charms ofMaria’s conversation, the sublimity of her concep¬tions, and the unaffected ingenuity of her manners,had won his unalterable affection; at that very mo¬ment his opinion changed, and he no longer thoughther conversation charming, her conceptions sublime,or her manners unaffectedly ingenuous. He hadseen her nose.He bit his lips, made his bow, and departed.Maria perceived the sudden revolution in the apos¬tate’s sentiments, and accounted for it with correct-12ness. She wished she had not withdrawn the ker¬chief from her face; it was an unfortunate removal;her nose, she was convinced, would be her ruin.She wept; for, although she was too cautious to bein love with him to distraction, she felt a something,a palpitation, a mantling of the blood around theheart, which whispered her that the gentleman’s de¬parture thus indisposed, was vexatious. “ Why,”exclaimed she, “ why did my mother long for mul¬berries !” It was an unfilial apostrophe ; and hadher parent desired the tail of a hippopotamus, shecould not have uttered more.Conway’s disposition was not an irrascible one,since he never anathematized the cook whenothebeef was over-roasted, though the fault was withoutremedy, nor cursed the housemaid to the depth ofhell, when she cut him the upper side of the loaf,though no one could be fonder of kissing-crust thanhe: but in spite of his placidity, on quitting Maria,he vehemently exclaimed, “ Did ever mortal seesuch a nose ! Did ever mortal see such a one! Shehas humour and ease; her ways are ways of plea¬santness ; she enjoys that gaiety of heart which Iadmire, and that—intolerable red nose which I can¬not admire for my life. Among the variety thatexists, why in the name of wonder did she choosethat?” As this was reasoning like a maniac, itwere not uncharitable to suppose him in love.That there is but one good reason for being inlove, namely, the impossibility to avoid it, is anidea so truly good in itself, that, had it not sprungfrom my own pericranium, I should have attributedit to the most venerable antiquity, and classed it forwisdom, with the wisest sayings of the ancientsages.Fortunately for Cupid, business recalled Conwayto Mr Hargrave’s, and fortunately for Maria, hisvisit ended in an invitation at pleasure. The wise11profit by every acquisition ; “among the evils oflife,” savs the gloomy Johnson, “we have to num¬ber the mutability of friendship.” Conway, sensi¬ble that invitations were given and forgotten withlittle solicitude, visited Mr Hargrave without delay.-—But, alas! what an alteration in his manner! hespoke without trepidation, and listened withoutcuriosity ; lounged unceremoniously upon the sofa,and buttered his toast with fashionable freedom.The day is kfst, said Maria.It was the very idea which struck upon the mindof Conway. “If I am in love,” said he, “it is notwith Maria. On my first visit her opinions werejudicious, and in unison with my own; but now theyare diametrically opposed to mine, and, what ispassing strange, she is perpetually wrong—I in¬variably right: I will think of her no more.” Sosaying, he thought of her every step that separatedhim from the house ; thought of her as he enteredhis own door; thought of her as he undressed him¬self ; dreamed of her. and awoke in the morning,exclaiming, “ I will think of her no mone.”He was then engaged at Lloyd’s. “ The man whoneglects his business in pursuit of pleasure,” said he,“ grasps at the end before he has obtained themeans, and is an idiot! ”—With this golden aphorismat his lips, he turned his back upon the city, andhastened to Maria!As he journeyed on, he suddenly rested his chinupon the palm of his hand; and neglectful of themockery of butchers’ boys, “What am I doing?’said he aloud ; “ if I marry her what will the worldsay? what will the city say? what will Miss Piitn,Miss Caustic, and Miss Wagtail say?”—Pray, whois Mrs Conway?—How admirable his picture ofdetraction ! —The illegitimate daughter of my LadyCatamaran’s butler!”Thus pleasure were the excursions of Conwaj*s14imagination ; and if the scene had not been brokenby his arrival at Mr Hargrave’s, ho would inevita¬bly have meditated himself into perpetual bachelor¬ship. As acquaintance had now ascended to friend¬ship, ho sat down, without teazing his host by im¬polite ceremony ; and indeed no one could accusehim of too great attention to forms and regulations,for, absorbed in thought, he placed the kettle uponthe table, and the tea-pot on the fire : poured themilk upon his roll, spread the butter upon the cloth,and mixed the sugar with the salt.—Maria’s heartdanced with gladness : “ I do really believe,” saidshe, “ the rogue has forgotten my red-—odiousword, remain for ever unutterable !”She was mistaken; the next day Coi*vay circum¬ambulated the metropolis for a recipe to removestains. “Are they in your cravats?” “No.”—“In your boot-toops ?” . “No.”—In your reputa¬tion?” “No.”—“In the name of Satan, wherethen ?” “ Satan be praised, in Maria’s nose.”—Itwould have convulsed the sides of Crassus, wholaughed but once in his life; or those of Heraclitus,who lived without laughing.“ The man is not born for happiness,” said Con¬way, condemning his own irresolution: “nothingmore pointedly displays than this—that he suffersevery trifle to obstruct it.—Gracious powers! whenthe cup is replete with blessings, how do we stand ?—Idiots like, gazing at the delicious draught un¬tasted ! and why ? truly a red nose floats upon thesurface.—Blockhead that thou art! what if it werehuge as Hecla?” <v, , ,.j j .. . i)If0|f\u{From what useless struggles would it exempt us,could we withdraw the curtain of fate, and ascertain,at once,, the journey we are to travel! In contemptof himself, Conway loved ; not but the fall of stocks,the rise of winds, the mortality of a favourite lap-dog, or the tedious vitality of a rich aunt, gave a15temporary check to bis love, by producing a fit ofthe spleen ; he then saw nothing through the mistof partiality, and Maria’s nose glowed with renorated redness.By continually dwelling on the subject, we forgetit; it becomes familiar; familiarity produces inatten¬tion ; and inattention sinks into indifference. Soit happened to Conway; he had a half consciousnessthat Maria had some defect—but of what denomin¬ation he endeavoured in vain to remember, and, ashe sought what he had little inclination to find, it isnot to be admired at that his enquiry was ineffectual.His visits at Mr Hargrave’s now began and endedwith the day. He wondered why he did not marry,and, profoundly ignorant of his battles against him¬self, generously exclaimed, “ Love should be unconstrained: that is not given, which is not given will: ingly.”When a man once wonders that he is unmarried,he soon ceases to be a bachelor. The irrevocableknot was tied.As the fond couple quitted the church, a youngidler exclaimed, “ Goodness, gracious! only seewhat a huge red nose! ”—“ Red nose! ” echoed Con¬way : “ Red nose! said he, repeating the words asecond time ; “ what can the blockhead mean?”—THE NEWFOUNDLAND DOG.A favourite dog, belonging to an English noble¬man, had fallen into disgrace, from an incorrigiblehabit of annoying the flocks of the neighbouringfarmers. One of these having, in vain, driven thedepredator from his premises, came at length to theoffender’s master, with a dead lamb under his arm,the victim of the last nights plunder. The noble¬man being extremely angry at the dog’s transgres¬sion, rang the bell for his servant, and, ordered himto be immetliatelv hanged, or some other way dis-). toed of, so that on his return from a journey he wasabout to Undertake, he might never see him again,lie then left the apartment, and the fate of thedog was for a few hours suspended. The interva/,though short, was not thrown away. The con¬demned animal was sufficiently an adept in the tonesof his master’s voice, to believe there was any hopeleft for a reversion of the sentence. lie thereforeadopted the only alternative between life and death,by making his escape. In the course of the evening,while the same servant was waiting at table, hislordship demanded if his order had Iteeli obeyed re¬specting the dog. “ After an hour's search, he isno where to be found, my lord,” replied the ser¬vant.—The rest of the domestics were questioned,and their answers similar. The general conclusionfor some days was that the dog, conscious of beingin disgrace had hid himself in the house of a tenant,or some other ‘person who knew him. A mouthhowever passed, without any thing being heard re¬specting him, it was therefore thought he had falleninto the hands of his late accuser, the farmer, andhanged for his transgressions.About a year after, while his lordship was jour¬neying into Scotland, attended only by one servanta severe storm drove him to shelter under a hovel,belonging to a public house, situated at some dis¬tance from the road, upon a heath. The tempestcontinuing, threatened rather to increase than abate,the night coming on, and no house suitable to theaccommodation of such a guest, his lordship was atlength induced to dismount, and go into the littleinn adjoining the shed. On his entrance, an air ofsurprise and consternation marked the features andconduct of both the innholder and his wife. Con¬fused and incoherent answers were made to com¬mon question's: and son:; after, a whispering took17place between the two forementiuned persons. Atlength, however, the guest was shown into a small^ parlour, a faggot was thrown on the fire, and suchrefreshments as the house afforded, were preparing,there being no appearance whatever of more favour¬able weather allowing them to depart.As the servant maid was spreading the cloth, avisible tremor shook her frame, so that it was notwithout difficulty she performed her office. Hislordship noticed a certain strangeness of the whole1 group, but remembering to have heard his servantmention the words, “ my lord,” as he alighted fromhis horse, he naturally imputed this to their havingunexpectedly a guest in their house above the rankof those whom they were accustomed to entertain.The awkwardness of intended respect in such cases,„ and from such persons, will often produce these em¬barrassments. His lordship having nowT made uphis mind to remain that night, supper was served ;when a most unexpected visitor made his appear¬ance. “Good heavens!” exclaimed his lordship,“ is it possible I should find my poor dog alive,and in this place?—How wonderful!—how wel¬come!”—He stretched out his hand to caress hislong lost favourite ; but the dog, after looking ear¬nestly at his ancient master, shrunk from him, andkept aloof, and took tlie first opportunity of thedoor being opened to leave the room ; but still tookhis station at the other side of the door, as if watch¬ing some expected event.Of the dog’s history, from the time of his elope¬ment, little more resulted from inquiry, than thathe had one day followed some drovers who came torefresh themselves and their Cattle: and that appear¬ing to be foot-sore with travel, and unable to pro-ched with his companions, ho staid in tho house,and had remained there ever since. This accountwas obtained From the hostler, who added, he was as18harmless a creature as any betwixt Scotland andIreland.—His lordship, intending to rise early inthe morning, to make up the time thus sacrificed inthe night, which was still stormy, ordered the ser¬vant to show him to his chamber.—As he passedthe common room which communicated with the par¬lour, he noticed the innkeeper and his wife in ear¬nest discourse with three men, muffled up in horse¬man’s coats, who seemed to have just come frombuffeting the tempest, and not a little anxious tocounteract its effects ; for both the landlord and hiswife were filling their glasses with spirits. Hislordship, on going to his chamber, after the maidand his own servant, heard a fierce growl, as fromthe top of the stairs. ‘ ‘ Here is the dog again, mylord,” exclaimed the servant.—“ He is often crossand churlish to strangers,” observed the maid, “ yettie never bites.” As they came nearer the door,his growl increased to a furious bark; but uponthe maid speaking to him sharply, he suffered herto enter the chamber, and the servant stepped backto hold the light to his lord. On his old masteradvancing towards the chamber, the dog drew back,and stood with a determined air of opposition, as ifto guard the entrance. His lordship then calledthe dog by his name, and on repeating some termsof fondness, which, in past times, he had familiarlybeen accustomed to, he licked the hand from whoseendearments he had so long been estranged.But he still held firm to his purpose, and endea¬voured to oppose his master’s passing to the cham¬ber. Yet the servant was suffered, without furtherdisputing the point, to go out; not, however, with¬out another growl, though one rather of anger thanresistance, and which accompanied her with increas¬ed fierceness all the way down stairs, which she de¬scended with the same strange kind of hurry andconfusion that marked her behaviour ever since his19lordship’s arrival. His lordship was prevented frovdwelling long on this circumstance, by an attentionto the dog, who, without being solicited farther, wenta few paces from the threshold of the door, at whichhe kept guard; and after caressing his lordship, andusing every gentle art of affectionate persuasion,(speech alone left out,) went down one of the stairs,as if to persuade his master to accompany him.—His lordship laid his foot upon the threshold, whenthe dog caught the skirt of his coat between histeeth, and tugged it with great violence, yet withevery token of love and terror ; for he now ap¬peared to partake of the general confusion of thefamily. The poor animal again renewed his fond¬ling, rubbed his face softly along his master’s side,sought the patting hand, raised his soliciting feet,and during these endearing ways he whined andtrembled to a degree, that could not escape the at¬tention both of the master and the servant.“I should suspect,” said his lordship, “were Iapt to credit omens, from a connection betwixt thedeportment of the people of this inn, and the uuae-I countable solicitude of the dog, that there is some¬thing wrong about this house.”—“ I have been longof the same opinion,” observed the servant, “andwish, your honour, we had been wet to the skin inproceeding, rather than to have stopped here.”“ It is too late to talk of wishes,” rejoined hislordship, “ neither can we set off now, were I dis¬posed ; for the hurricane is more furious than ever.Let us, therefore, make the best of it. In whatpart of the house do you sleep ? “ Close at thehead of your lordship’s bed,” answered the domes¬tic, “ in a little closet, elipside of a room by thestairs—there, my lord,” added the servant, pointingto a small room on the right.“ Then go to bed—we are not wholly withoutmeans of defence, you know; and whichever of usshall be idrst alarmed, may apprize the other. Atthe same time, all this may be nothing more thanthe work of our own fancies.”The anxiety of tiro dog, during this conversation,cannot be expressed. On the servant’s leaving theroom, the dog ran hastily to the door, as if in hopeshis lordship would follow; and looked as if to en¬tice him to do so. Upon his lordship’s advancinga few steps, the vigilant creature leaped up withevery sign of satisfaction : but when he found thosesteps wore directed only to close the door, his de¬jection was depicted in a manner no less lively thanhad been his joy.It was scarcely possible not to be impressed by.these unaccountable circumstances, yet his lordshipw as almost ashamed of yielding to them ; and find¬ing all quiet, both above and below, except thenoise of the wind and rain, and finding that nocaresses could draw the dog from the part of theroom 1m had chosen, his lordship made a bed forthe poor fellow with one of the mats, and thensought repose himself. Neither the dog, however,nor the master, could rest. The former rose often,and paced about the room: sometimes he came closeto the bed-curtains, and sometimes whined piteous¬ly, although the hand of reconciliation was put forthto sOoth him. In the course of an hour after this,his lordship was wearied with conjecture, fell asleep,but he was soon aroused bv his four-footed friend,whom he heard scratching violently at the closetdoor; an action which was accompanied by thegnashing of the dogs teeth, intermixed witli themost furious growlings. His lordship, who hadlaid himself down in his clptlfes and literally restingon his arms—his brace of pistols being under hispillow—now sprung from the hed. The rain badceased, and the wind abated, from which circum¬stance ho hoped to hear better what was passing.21But nothing, for an mutant, appeased the rage ofthe dog, who finding his paws unable to force a pas¬sage into the closet, put Ids teeth to a small apertureat the bottom, and attempted to gnaw away the ob¬struction. There could be no longer a doubt thatthe cause of the mischief, or danger, whatsoever itmight be, lay in that closet. Yet there appearedsome risk in opening it; more particularly when,j on trying to' force Hie lock, it was found to be se-i cured by some fastening on the inside. A knock¬ing was now heard at the chamber door, throughthe key-hole of which, a voice exclaimed—“ ForGod’s sake, my lord, let me in.” His lordship,knowing this to proceed from his servant, a-dvancedarmed, and admitted him. “ All seems quiet my lord,below stairs and above,” said the man, “ for I havef never closed my eyes. For heaven’s sake! whatcan be the matter with the dog, to occasionsuch a dismal barking?” “ That 1 am resolved toknow,” answered his lordship, furiously pushing thecloset door. No sooner was it burst open, than thedog, with inconceivable rapidity, rushed in, andwas followed both by the master and man. Thecandle had gone out in the hustle, and the extremedarkness of the night prevented them from seeingany object whatever. But a hustling sort of noisewas heard at the farther end of tho closet. Hislordship then fired one of his pistols at random, byway of alarm. A piercing cry, ending in a loudgroan, immediately came from the dog.—“ GreatGod!” exclaimed his lordship, “ 1 have surely de¬stroyed my defender.” He ran out for a light, andSnatched a candle from the innholder, who came inapparent consternation, as to enquire into the alarmof the family. Others of the house now enteredthe room ;; but without paying attention to theirquestions, his lordship ran towards the closet tolook for his dog. “ The door is open !—the door22is open!—ejaculated the publican ; then all is over! ”As his lordship was re-entering the closet, he wasmet by his servant who, with every mark of almostspeechless consternation in his voice and counte¬nance, exclaimed, ,!0, my lord!—my lord! I haveseen such shocking sights!” and, without being ableto finish his sentence, he sunk on the floor. Beforehis master could explore the cause of this, or suecoed in raising up his fallen domestic; the poor dogcame limping from the closet, while a blood trackmarked his path. He gained, with great difficulty,the place where his lordship stood aghast, and fellat his master’s feet. Every demonstration of griefensued; but the dog, unmindful of his wounds,kept his eyes still intent upon the closet door; anddenoted that the whole of the mystery was not yetdeveloped.Seizing the other pistol from the servant whohad fallen into a swoon, his lordship now re-enteredthe closet. The wounded dog crawled after him ;when, on examining every part, he perceived in onecorner, an opening into the inn yard, by a kind oftrap door, to which some broken steps descended.The dog seated himself ou the steps; but there wasnothing to be seen but a common sack. Nor wasany thing visible upon the floor, except some dropsof blood, part of which were evidently those whichhad issued from the wound of the dog himself, andpart must have been of long standing, as they weredried into the boards. His lordship went back intothe bed-chamber, but the dog remained in the closet.On his return the dog met him, breathing hard, asif from violent exercise, and he followed his masterinto the chamber.The state of the man-servant, upon whom fearhad operated so as to continue him in a successimiof swoons, now claimed his lordship’s affections, andwhile those were administered, the dog again leftthe chamber. A short time after this, he washeard to bark aloud, then cry, accompanied by anoise, as if something heavy was drawn along thefloor. On going once more into the closet, hislordship found the dog trying to bring forward thesack which had been seen lying on the steps nearthe trap-door. The animal renewed his exertionsat the sight of his master; but, again exhaustedboth by labour and loss of blood, he rested his headon the mouth of the sack.Excited by this new mystery, his lordship nowassisted the poor dog in his labour, and, thoughthat labour was not light, curiosity, and the appre¬hension of discovering something extraordinary, onthe part of his lordship, and unabating perseverance* on that of the dog, to accomplish his purpose, gavethem strength to bring at length the sack from thecloset to the chamber. The servant was somewhatrestored to himself, as the sack was dragged intothe room, but every person, who in the beginningof the alarm had rushed into the apartment, hadnow disappeared.The opening of the sack surpassed all thathuman language can convey of human horror.As his lordship loosened the cord which fastenedthe sack’s mouth, the dog fixed his eyes on it, stoodover it with wild and trembling eagerness, as ifready to seize and devour the contents.The contents appeared, and the extreme of horrorwas displayed. A human body, as if murdered inbed, being covered only with a bloody shirt, andthat clotted, and still damp, as if recently shed; theI head severed from the shoulders, and the othermembers mangled and separated, so as to make thetrunk and extremities lie in the sack, was now ex¬posed to view.The dog smelt the blood, and after surveying thecorpse, looked piteously at his masf'r, and licked24his hand, as if grateful the mysterious murder wasdiscovered.It was proved, that a traveller had really beenmurdered two nights before his lordship’s arrival atthat haunt of infamy ; and that the offence wa«committed in the very chamber, and probably inthe very bed, wherein his lordship had slept; andwhich, but for the warnings of his faithful friend,must have been fatal to himself.The maid servant was an accomplice in the guilt;and the ruffian travellers, who were confederatingwith the innholder and his wife, were the murderersof the bloody remains that had been just emptiedfrom the sack, whose intent it was to have buriedthem that night in a pit, which their guilty handshad dug in an adjacent field belonging to the inn¬holder ; whose intention it was likewise to havemurdered the nobleman, which was providentiallyprevented by the wonderful sagacity of the dog.The innkeeper and his wife were taken up, andpunished according to their deserts; and the noble¬man was so affected at his miraculous escape, thathe bound up the wounds of his faithful dog withthe greatest care, and the balm of love and friend¬ship were infused. The master’s hour of contritionwas how come: he was sorry he h;pl ever neglectedso invaluable a friend; and, as the only peace-offer¬ing in his power, departed with his faithful com¬panion from the house of blood, to that mansion hehad formerly left in disgrace; where the caresses ofa grateful family, and an. uninterrupted state oftranquility; meliorated with every indulgence theycould bestow, was regularly continued as long ashe lived.01 j03 dub ho.; at m siodinomTHE END,