*r heOR1 ';BETTY’S ta’en the GEE.* TO WHICH ARE ADDED, #Molly's Grief for the Lofs of her Sailor.(MOLLY’S ANSWER to her SAILOR.*The Old MAN’S Advice to his SON.YE VIRGIN POWERS.G l- A S G O W,Friatcd by J. & M»t Robert (bn* S3ltu(a»'lcet* i8o*-L n. , . \ 'My WIFE SHE'S ta'cn the GEE.Hen I was yoncg and unmarry'd,I liv’d a merry life.Bat yet I could not be content}untiteC got a wife :She never did controu! me,ncr raging, curfe and baa.For I was more than half goodwife,fo sfras I hale goodman.My dear was loving all her life,and (lie was good to me.And I can fwear, in all her lifedie never took the gee.If company had caufed mefometimcs to flay from hame.My dear would not blafphemiog ra*dsnor yet cxprefs my name *But lovingly would me exhort,fuch things for to let be,And l am lure in all her lite(he never teok the gee.But on a time my love fell lick,alas ! and (he did die.For her my heart was like to break,she never took the gee.For three long months and more. I'm fare,;1 made a heavy moan.My friends comforted me, and faid,l could not live alone ;They faid, they knew a dainty ialathat would do well with me,3ut oh, alas! flit’s dead and gonethat never took the gee.iflTith counfrl and advice of them,at length I went to fee her,I 3ut lie appear’d fo very nice,that I thought (barae to IpeirAt firtt. if (he weald marry me,i/Vtll courage wan the day;Jit laft I fought and marry'd her,II fhe never laid me nay.) he was fo very fair and clear,j; and comely for to fee,kTou would have thought in twenty yearsi Ihe would not take die geei.ilut or the was'a monf h raarry'd,flic paid me back and fide.tnd aff my face with her lang nails(he rave the very hide#>;hor. The gee wife, the gee wife,my wife has ta’en the gee;And by my footh I canna guefe,how deity’s ta’en the gee.iken not what to do with her,l can find no re.nced;1C caules me alt times to pray,i and with that i were dead-,.{ 4 ) -Thaa live with her when {he goes mad,I rather Jar would die,The devil take the roaring Jadewhen Ihe takes on the gee.Chor. Fne gee wile, the gee wife, &c.My wife and I went out to fight,anci Hie gave me my beats jFor ali that < was fir to do,my wife {he' wan the breeds.She clrave the pifs-{x>t in my face,and near dang cat my eyi tAnd by my fooih I caona guefe,how »)• wife’s ta’en the gee. -v "*Chor, The gee wife, the gee wife, &c. *She r ve the hair out o’f my head,and then (he rave my cheeks;And ay fmee that unhappy day,my wife .(be wears the ’creeks.I wifh that fhe. was fent abroad,ten miles beyond the feaI hope my wife (hon’d ne’er xeturc,for-to t>ke on the g -*eCher, The geo wife, the gee-wife* tic*Mcdly's Grief for the Lof? of her Sailor.p O I am ccme to take.my leave,j My deareft Molly pray tlo riot griere;For L an going to the Spauiih. fhoreji! To leave my cha: naer, to leave ray charmer,> vVhom I do adore.rSMy deareft Johnny, hearken to me.How many (hips there’s on the fea ;You’re better (leepiag in your lover’s arras,ipi Free from all danger, free froth ail danger.And raoft difmal ftorms.No ftortps nor danger love will I fear,;l I go to (ea in a privateer ;X And if it pleafc irate to fgare my life. ;’I When l return love, when l remrn love,i’ll make you my wife.There's one thing more difturbs ray miad,?. Some other girl I’m alraid you’ll find ;i For when Jou’rc fail'd to the Spaniih (hoi;?.Then you may think, then you mav chink,Ori yetir Polly no more,1 hough thoufands of fine girls 1 fee,I None Uk.U efjby my love but thee:i O then la>s Polly if you be fa true.]j I’ll ne’er have one I’ll ne’er have one.My jewel buf t aee.Then tliir couple they did part.Few knew the grief of true love’s fmart $• , e >Then ne took mippiag, and away he west,And left poor Polly, and left poor Pol!^In tears to lament.MOLLY'S ANS WER to her SAILOR.NOW f ortune’s prov’d to him moil kind.Sent him a fair and profp’rous wind,Has fent him fafe from the Spantfh ihore,And to his charmer, and to his charraer.Whom he did adore.Now they are married" as we do hear.In peace and plenty living there;He proves loyal, and ihc proves kind.Unto his charmer, unto his charmer,tie left behind*IYour welcome home my jewel from fea.For many nights I’ve dream’d of thee :For when you’re failing to the Spanish ihore,I never thought love, t never rhought love,Fo fee thee more.i:The OLD MAN’S -ADVICE to his SON.5- |GO M F hither my duiiful fonand take this .good counfel of me ^All lolly endeavour to thun,that profpeFous you may beIn a!) the aifairs ot your life,and that you to itches may rife $And ati’o in dm fra £ a wifeit is good to be merry and Wife.• ' ( 7 )I Cbufc not For a great many pence,among the fine gaudy and gay,ifor a woman well furnifh’d with Fenfe,is fifty times better than they :For one in infolent pride,perhaps may your counfel defpife,iiWhen another will draw by your fide,it is good to be merry and wife.I Be fore yon draw both in one yoke,one hand, one heart, and'bne purfc,Each other pray never provoke.left your blefling fhould turn to a curfc^liBe careful ami kind to your wife,.and be not too often difgoisM $‘,!Bc:fober and lead a good life,it is good to be merry and wife.jSome men will fcorn and deride,good men of induftrious careWho does by their labou'* provide,both food and apparel to wear :sBe careful and value not them,in their ruin and fall they will rife,:<For there’s a good name to be got,to all men who are merry and wife.:oome men they nothing will fare,like ragged extravagant elves,likud for a,defire to havetheir neighbour^ as poor as themfelves:;1 They will (trive in their malice aud fpieea,I like ravenous wolves in difguite ^( 8 >Y ou may know Tery well tvhat t mean;it is good to be merry and wife.I have "been a father to yon,and fo I will to your wife ;Nothing ffiall be wanting in me,vto the longeft day of my life :And if you amend what's amifs,and not my good eounfel defpife.Then will l conclude all with this,dear fan you’ll b.c merry and wife.YE VIRGIN POWERS.YE virgin powers, defend ray heaw,from amorous looks and fmilcs;Fjrcjn fancy love, or nicer art,which mod our ft x beguiles.From fighs and vows, and awful fears,that do to pity move ;From fpeakiog fileuce, and from tears,thofe fprings that water love.But if through paffion l grow blind, *‘ let honour be my guide jAnd when frail harm e feems inclin’d,there place a guard of pride.An heart, wbofe flames are feen, tho* pure, rneeds every virtue's aid;And flic who thinks herfelf fecure,the fconeft is betray d.Printed by j. & M. Robertfon, Salltmarkct, iScj ;