THEJEALOUS MANCONVINCED THAT HE IS NOCUCKOLD:1 > .O R, T H EWay of the World Represented.BEING tA true Satire on the Times, in. a co¬mical Dialogue between a JealousHufbanb and a Crafty Wife.SHEWING,THE TRUE DERIVA.ITONOF THEWORD CUCKOLD.AND PLAINLY PROVINGThat the Whoremaftcr, and not theinjured Hufband, deferves to be focalled.sdUss .S T I R L I N G:PRINTED & SOLD BY C. RANDALL*,1803,( 2 )The Jealous Man no Cuckold.Wife.PRAY hulbarul, what is the matterwith you ? methinks you look con-ceraed as if fomething troubled you more thanordinary.Hulband Matter enough, my dear, and reafonenough too, if all was known , but let that ftandthere W. Stand there, child, what a fooHfh exprellionis that ? Prithee man, if you have reafon, never har-'bour ic in your breaft, unfold it quickly.H- Well love, then if I mu it 1 will, and plainlyroo ; In Ihort, the alteration of your countenance,carriage, and behaviour towards me; your unman¬nerly looks, and fomeihing elfe that I have takennotice of, give me a fhrewd opinion of you, —•That fomething as big as a man has drawn yourlove from me of late.W. O poor man ! I am ferry for you ; indeed▼our misfortune is very great in your own thoughts.In my opinion, you would fain perfuade yourfdf—von are a jealous pated coxcomb, or i'uch a thing asthey call a cuckold.II. In-good truth, wife, you have juft hit it ;—voudhoultl be counted one of thefe things they callwitches, for gueffing fo rightW. Right! why I think the man’s dotifti, or mad,you talk fo plainly, fure any one that is not out oftheir fenfes may underftand you- If you have ammd tothinkyourfelfa cuckold,—fo,—let that Handthere, ns you laid before Cut firft: explain yourfelfa little farther, to my better underllamling, and then(3 )I don’t doubt but I (hall do as all other women wouldIdo my endeavours to convince you to the contrary.l!And l boldly fay, hufband, you are no cuckold, andi I (hall (hew you a reafon for it.H My love, if you can fhew me a reafon thatI am not a cuckold, I (hail deep in peace.-rV. Indeed, hufband, that ( can cafily do ; butfir ft you hull ihevv me your reafon for lodging fuch.> treacherous, envious, jealous thoughts in your breaftugainft her who has always been a faithful and honeft,Ifober. and loving wife-H, My dear, what makes me under this confter-hation is, that 1 have obferved you have not been fo■ ready, loving, affable, dutiful, and obedient of late,cither night or day, as you ulually ufed to be. If L•(peak, you heed me not ; If I go to bed. or fet up,ft’s all one to you ; If 1 eat, or let it alone, you care,dot ; you never caft a finite on me, or fpeak a com¬fortable word t© me,— i'here is a ftrange alterationX our houfe.VV. My dear fpoufe, let all women judge, If £nave not reafon enough to be out of humour, Can4 have a gold chain, a watch, a locket, a diamondjiing, or any thing eife neceflary to fet a woman offjiiandfomdy, like the reft of my neighbours, There’s^nany of them who hud lefs fortune that myfelf,i[nd lefs deferve them, enjoy them all without thisifloife or clamour.If4 H. Come hold your peace, love, thofe things £lahnot afford \nd as for your portion, God.(nows I never had any luch thing with you ; neitherjiiave you brought me any thing in thefe five ar fixrears 1 have been married to vonVV. TJtat’s falfe, you lubber ! now you putineinarage Though l have been married thdelive or fix years, yet I have brought you fix or fevenhildrcn, with little help of yours.H. 1 crave your mercy, rny dear, I had f®rgothat. But neverthekfs, if you are r.n honeft womanC 4 )now. I'd fain keep you fo ; for it is an old fayinghe that makes his wife a Goldfinch, in the endwill find her a Water-wagtail. ’Tis good for aman ao be cautious.W. Out, you filly elf, I would not be a whorewas there never a man in the world, I defy thedevil and all his worksH. Indeed my heart, I believe the firfi: part ofyour ftory, but my head does ache a little a? wellas my heart ; I dread the horns, I would not be acuckold for all the world, to be pointed at by everyone to have a fkimington rode for me, and a thou-fand other reproaches which are unfufferableW. Tufh, foolilh man, can I make you a cuc¬kold of myfelf ? and were it fo, you ought to bearall affliftions with chriftian patience ; the old pro¬verb tells you, that all cuckolds go to heaven. Theworld as bad as is is, will fay his none of yourfault, but your wife's.H- Indeed that is fame fatisfaftion ; yet as wellas I love heaven I fhouid not like to be a cuckold.W. Alas, my Pigfpies, I believe from aH your ;difeourfe hitherto, that you don’t know what a *cuckold is, nor whence the word is derived.H My dear duck, I know you are a greater !fcholar than I; and that you have more f-nfe and |knowledge than all' the women in the parifh be-iides, therefore 1 will tell you firff, what I appre¬hend to be the meaning of it, and if I err, I fiiouldbe glad to be better informed by your greater witand profound, underfianding.W. Well, I wid have patience till you are done, |let’s hear your fkill in revealing this hidden myflery.H. My life, this is what 1 conceive of it, that Ith£re are three forts of cuckolds ; the firft is like aStag, he carries horns, and is proud of them ; the2d is like a Ram, he catries his horns backwards,and cannot fee them’ the 3d is like an Afj, whogoing to a river to drink, fees the Ihadow of hjs( ? )ears, and conceits they are horns, when he Has'none : And which of thefe three am I my dear, itis beft known to your ft: IfW. Well, good man A{s, though your definitionis pretty comical, yet it is not to the purpofe; as Iam now ready to make an appeal, that yourfeif a-lone knows whither you are a cuckold or not.H I told you before, if I was amifs, I would beglad to be rectified by you.W. Then you jealous booby, the word cuckold,comes from Cuckow, a bird fo extraordinary cold,that philofophers fay, that ihe can’t hatch heryoung herfelf, therefore flie lays them in otherbirds nefls, to bring them forth. Now, if everyou have done fo in another man4s bed, you are acuckold, if not utherwife.H. Adad wife, I can fwear to the contrary, forI never did fo in my life.W- So, then, I hope for the future y ou will aban¬don ail fuch fbo'ilh thoughts, and reft contented.H I will, my dear, my be ft beloved wife.And from my breail will banifh care and ftrife ;I’ll know no blels but what lies in your charms,And iive and die encircled in your arms.\V. Hold hufband, that is not all.H Why, what is to be done now', loving wife ?"V» . But before we are thoroughly reconcird, youmuft profuife to leave off drinking and gaming, andbecome a good hufband ; why fnould the landbklvfiourifh in her rings and bravery, and laugh in herffeeve at your folly ? make her pot boil, when lanifaffing at home, thatch her hauf‘6, and leave yourown uncovered t Tray let me know what latisfattionyou will give me, for expoiing me in this mannner ?H Indeed I have gone affray hitherto, bat it istime to reform. Their pleafmt looks, fine words,relifhing bits, double chalks, frothy cars, wheedling( 6 )wenches, and a theufand other fnares and devices,have ruined me ; but on the other hand, my dear,you mult not He in bed til: noon, and rife and di inkcoffee and tea ; you mult no! I pend the afternoonm tr id tiffs aifits and ^eflioing (lories, tittle tattle,prittie prattle, chit chat, from, heuie to houfe, tothe coft of your neighbour’s repiitatirn, and mypocket, y^u*' now that tittle tattling, long tongueof yours, has got me thrice in the commiffary’scourt, and five times in prifon already.\V Weil, I find you Lave a ndnd to fcold, andmake me angry; If I lie in bed till noon, l (pare abreak tuft, anil when I go to bed by riay-iight, itlaves fire and candles. If 1 had a mind to rip upold fores, I could tell Low the wench gave ycu abeck, to go to Nor-Bundiga, how you werellripp’d, for the reckoning, anti (porting in the ..garden of Venus, conic home flung with nettles ;but you had bell not provoke me, no you had noVH. For my part, I would not enrage, but advileyou ; you know, if a word palled between us, or lbbow would you take to your bed, pretend 10 be ill,and fend to a Qu ick Doctcr, to tdi what ail’d you,\Vho being as ignorant as yourfelf, cf the caufe,haVe joined iffue with his knavilh 'apothecary, andpotfon'd you with his flops, kill they have madeycu lick indeed, at once robbing your health, andmy purfe, fur deadly drugs, cover’d with crampnames, which neither themfelves, nor any bodyelfe can uadetfkmd, has drain’d my fubflance a-way, in right good tarntft.W. Indeed every thing, that is laid out for thewife, is counted thrown away, but you forgot atthe fame time, what the lawyers have coil you inwrangling, tiao e baiamanders, that uve in thefccrching flames cf their own kindling.H Not half fo much as the (curvy Taylors havecoil ycu in hoop petticoats, and other pau.try fa!k-ions, which y . ur giddy f:x b*v? contriv’d of late.( 7 )to make you look big, and formidable, though Godknows, (as the Poet fays)Jf •women were as little, as they re good,A peas cod fiell would make them cloak and hood-W. I’m fivre you will never be good, while youobferve th? faying of every ragged Poe*:, the divineGrades tell y'.u, I am bone, of your bone, and flefhof your (lefts, and was you not an unnatural mon-fter, you would regard me as fuch.H. Hold good wife, be not fo hot, I muft ownyou were made of one of my :ifcs, which was crook¬ed, and that appears in your temper to this day}for it is uatural for you to be crooked, contrary,ftubhorn, felf-willed, head-flrong, and turbulentW. Heydav ! will you never have done ? We(hall have a difh of rails for Cupper If I thould letyou go on, you would run yourfelf quite out ofbreath ; am not I your equal ?H. But I am your head and will be your mailer,W, You may abroad, but I’ll be miftref? at home.II. You fiis'l of the difhes and trenchers, butnever of me; betides you are perjur'd i you defireit, for at your marriage, yen promifed to honourand obey me.W. I did, but you proir.ifed to love and cherifitme, ami not to hector and domineer over me. Ia ai your yokefellow, but not your Have ; yoyr e-qual, not your v.ifTd, your companion by day, andyour bedfellow at night ; the mother of your chil¬dren, and guide ot your fervants, and thereforeI’m worthy of an honour.H I own all this to be true and yet the breeche'5belong to me Is not a man lord of the creation ?ami do not I toft and labour to fubftft you andyours, and do net all hard (hips, law-fults dangersof war, and all oth:r difficulties, fall to my lhare,if you ahufe any one, don’t I fuftcr for u ? n.’y, ifyou get a balhird, muft not I fsth- r it ? I work for*( 8 )you by day, and drudge for you by night, and yetyou are not contented, without fupcriority over me.W. I know no drudgery you do for me by night,uniefs it be fleeping, and that I can do myfelf.H. Sure you won't difgrace me before thofe peo¬ple, and tell them I neglect family duty, I am iureI love my marriage bed, as well a? any man.\V. Perhaps you do, but if you loved the bedlefs, and your wife more, then I am fure I Ihouldfind an alteration, as you notic’d, on your fideH. Dear Mrs. Critical, you want me to fulfil theproverb, to love you fo well, as to rub you downwith an oaken towel, as my neighbours do ; or iike jthe Mufcovite women, who don’t think their hul-bands love them, unlefs they thraih them once ortwice a week.W. No more of your airs, if you love me. Mymeaning is to baniih all jeaioufy from you : for was iit fo, you’d better put your horns in your pocket, 1than expofe them ; you may reft contented, and go Ito church with your neighbours, for it’s more in ;|faftilon now-a-days, than you are aware of. Yet, jI aft lire you, hufband, you are no cuckold.H YYhy indeed that’s great fatisfaefon to me, Imuft needs own l have been to b^me for harbour¬ing fuch an opinion of you, but I will do fo nomore. I will enjoy my pipe and my bottle h meaf-ter, make my heart glad, my life eafy and you andI ih.dl join hand in hand together, and fet a goodejj '.topic to all our n“i ;hboursW. Now mv clear I jejoice, that I’ve convincedyou of your fooiilh thoughts of cuckoldotn. whichihall make our hearts esfy And as you defire we’ll ,join our hands together, go home in love, live in ipeace, and enjoy ourfelves over a cup of good U*quor, to cheer our fpirits.H. With all my heart, wife, fo let the loving com- |pany fubferibe themlelves witnefs, if they pleafe.FINIS.; - -M :