NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES,No. 45.|| HISTORY OF CINDERELLA, ||OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER| |lilBpM»«^ (||)GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.} 1852. <OF SCOTLAND'THE HISTORYOPCINDERELLA;■fOR THELITTLE GLASS SLIPPEE.There was once a very rich gentleman who lost hiswife; and having loved her exceedingly, ho was verysorry when she died. Finding himself quite unhappyfor her loss, he resolved to marry a second time, thinking'by this means ho should be as happy as before. Un¬fortunately, however, the lady he chanced to fix uponwas the proudest and most haughty woman ever known;she was always out of humour with every one ; nobodyicould please her, and she returned the civilities of thoso(about her with the most affronting disdain. She had!two daughters by a former husband, whom she broughtup to bo proud and idle: indeed, in temper and behaviourdiey perfectly resembled their mother; they did not'iove their books, and would not learn to work ; in short,they were disliked by every body.The gentleman on his side, too, had a daughter, who,in sweetness of temper and carriage, was the exact(likeness of her own mother, whoso death he had somuch lamented, and whose tender care of the little girl‘he was in hopes to see replaced by that of his new bride.But scarcely was the marriage ceremony over, beforohis wife began to show her real temper ; she could nothear the pretty little girl, because her sweet obligingmanners made those of her own daughters appear a(thousand times the more odious and disagreeable.She therefore ordered her to live in the kitchen ; and,if ever she brought any thing into the parlour, alwaysscolded her till she was out of sight. She made herwork with the servants, in washing the dishes, and rub¬bing the tables and chairs: it was her place to cleanmadam’s chamber, and that of the misses her daughters,4which was all inlaid, had beds of the newest fashionand looking-glasses so long and broad, that they sa sthemselves from head to foot in them ; while the littlcreature herself was forced to sleep up in a sorry garreupon a wretched straw bed, without curtains, or anthing to make her comfortable.The poor child bore all this with the greatest patiencenot daring to complain to her father, who, she fearedwould only reprove her, for she saw that his wifgoverned him.entirely. When she had done all hework she used to sit in tho chimney corner among tincinders ; So that in tho house she went by tho name o!:Cinderhreech : the youngest of the two sisters, however,.,being rather more civil than tho eldest, called henCinderella. And Cinderella, dirty and ragged as she}!was, as often happens in such cases, was a thousand)times prettier than her sisters, dressed out in all their:,splendour.It happened that the king’s son gave a hall, to which,he invited all the persons of fashion in the country: ourtwo misses were of the number ; for the king’s son did!not know how disagreeable they were ; but supposed, as;they wore so much indulged, that they were extremely,amiable. He did not invite Cinderella, for he hadtnever seen or heard of her.The two sisters began immediately to bo very busyin preparing for the happy day ; nothing could exceed itheir joy; every moment of their timo was spent in i5fancying’such gowns, shoes, and head-dresses'as wouldset them off to the greatest advantage. All this wasnew vexation to poor Cinderella, for it was she whoironed and plaited her sisters’ muslins. They talked oinothing but how they should bo dressed. “ I,” said thoeldest, “will wear my scarlet velvet with French trim¬ming.” “ And I,” said tho youngest, “ shall wear thosame petticoat I had made for tho last ball: but thento make amends for that, I shall put on my gold muslintrain, and wear my diamonds in my hair ; with these Imust certainly look well.” They sent several miles forthe best hair-dresser that was to be had, and all theirornaments were bought at the most fashionable shops.On the morning of the ball they called up Cinderellato consult with her about their dress, for they know shehad a great deal of taste. Cinderella gave them thobest advice she could, and even offered to assist them inadjusting their head-dresses ; which was exactly whatthey wanted, and they accordingly accepted her pro¬posals.While Cinderella was busily engaged in dressing hersisters, they said to her, “ Should you not like, Cinderella,to go to the ball?” “ Ah !” replied Cinderella, “youare only laughing at me ; it is not for such as I am tothink of going to balls.” “ You are in the light,” saidthey : “folks might laugh indeed to see a Cinderbreechdancing in a ball-room.”Any other than Cinderella would have tried to make6the haughty creatures look as ugly as she could; butthe sweet tempered girl, on the contrary, did everything she could think of to make them look well.The sisters had scarcely eaten any thing for two days,so great was their joy as the happy day drew near.More than a dozen laces were broken in endeavouringto give them a fine slender shape, and they were alwaysbefore the looking-glass.At length the long wished-for day of the ball arrived,and these proud misses stepped into a beautiful car¬riage, attended by several servants in handsome liveries,and drove away to the city.Cinderalla followed the coach with her eyes as faras she could see, and then returned to the kitchen intears, where, for the first time, she bewailed her hard7and cruel degradation. She continued sobbing in thecorner of the chimney until a noise in the kitchen rousedher, and she looked up to see what had occasioned it.Her surprise was great, indeed, to see a little curious-looking old woman, very antiquely dressed ; in her righthand she carried a wand, and in the other she held acrutch to support herself.Cinderella thought that her eyes .had deceived her,as she had not seen this droll personage before ; but theold woman, with a good-natured smile in her counte¬nance, approached nearer, and thus accosted her:—“ My dear Cinderella, I am your godmother, and,knowing the desire you have to go to this fine ball, Iam come for the purpose of gratifying your wishes ;therefore, dry up your tears, and, as you are a good girl,I will furnish you with an equipage suitable to yourimerit.”Cinderella then remembered that she had heard herfather and mother often talk of her godmother, and thatishe was one of those good Fairies who interest them-iselves in the welfare of all the children to whom theystand sponsors, and this recollection revived her spirits.The Fairy took Cinderella by the hand, and having;lled her out to a retired spot, said, “Now, my dear, you mustgo into the garden and bring mo a pumpkin.” Cin-iderella almost flew to execute her commands, and re¬turned with one of the finest she could meet with. Hergodmother took the pumpkin, and scooped out the in-.iido of it, leaving nothing but the rind; she then struckt with her wand, and it instantly became one of themost elegant gilt coaches that over was seen.She next desired Cinderella to go to the pantry fordie mouse-trap. She did so, and found six little mice.dive in the trap, which she brought to the Fairy, whojequested her to lift up the door very gently, so thatnly one of them might go out at a time.Cinderella raised the trap-door, and, as the micelame out one by one, a touch of the Fairy’s wand trans-‘jrmed them into beautiful carriage horses.' “Now, my dear girl,” said the Fairy, “hero you' ave a coach and horses much handsomer than yourlisters, to say the least of them; but, as we have neitheri8got a postilion nor a coachman to take care of themsrun quickly to the stable, where' the rat-trap is placed*and bring it to me.”Cinderella soon returned with the trap, in whichthere were two large rats. The Fairy touched them::both with her wand, and immediately the one wasichanged into a handsome postilion, and the other into afine jolly-looking coachman.Her godmother then said, “ My dear Cinderella, yovmust go to the garden again before I can completeyour equipage: when you get there, keep to the righside, and close to tho wall, you will see the watering-po,standing; look behind it, and there you will find si:lizards, which you must bring to me immediately.”Cinderella flow to the garden, and found the si:,,lizards, which she brought to the Fairy. Another touclof the wonderful wand soon converted these animalinto six spruco footmen, in dashing liveries, who immediately jumped up behind tho carriage, and with amuch agility as if they had been accustomed to dnothing else all their lives.The coachman and postilion having likewise take)their places, the Fairy said to Cinderella, “ Well, m idear girl, is not this as fine an equipage as you couhdesire to go to the hall with ? Tell me, now, are yoipleased with it ?” _ I“ 0 yes, my dear godmother,” replied Cinderellajand then, with a good deal of hesitation, added, “butl9how can I make my appearance among so many fine-dressed people in these mean-looking clothes ?”“Give yourself no uneasiness about that, my dear,”said the Fairy, with a good humoured smile; “ the mostlaborious part of our task is already accomplished, andit will be hard if I cannot make your dress correspondwith your equipage.”On saying this, she touched Cinderella with her magicwand, and her clothes were instantly changed into themost magnificent apparel, ornamented with the mostjcostly jewels that ever were beheld. The Fairy took fromher pocket a most beautiful pair of elastic glass slippers,(which she caused Cinderella to put on, and then desiredher to get into the carriage with all expedition, as theball had already commenced.Cinderella instantly stepped into the chariot, and hergodmother, before she took leave, strictly charged heron no account whatever to stay at the ball after theclock had struck twelve; and then added, that, if she. stopped a single moment beyond that time, her finen coach, horses, coachman, postilion, footmen, and finei apparel, would all return to their original shapes ofi pumpkin, mice, rats, lizards, and mean-looking clothes.Cinderella promised most faithfully to attend to every1 thing that the Fairy had mentioned; and then, quite[i overjoyed, drove away to the palace.The arrival of so splendid an equipage as Cinderella's,could not fail to attract general notice at the palace ;210and information having reached the king’s son, that i:beautiful young lady, evidently some princess, was iiwaiting, he hastened to the door, handed her out of tb,carriage, and led her into the ball-room.Cinderella no sooner appeared than every one wasilent; both the dancing and the music stopped, anevery body was employed in gazing at the uncommobeauty of this unknown stranger: nothing was hearbut whispers of “ How handsome she is! ” The kinhimself, old as ho was, could not keep his eyes from her,,and continually repeated to the queen, that it was a longtime since ho had seen so lovely a creature. The ladiesendeavoured to find out how her clothes were made,that they might get some of the same pattern for them¬selves by the next day, should they be lucky enough tomeet with such handsome materials, and such goodwork-people to make them.The king’s son conducted Cinderella to one of the t11most distinguished seats, and, placing himself by herside, begged she would allow him to bring her somefruit or jellies. These she refused with great politeness,and he then requested to have the honour of dancingwith her. Cinderella gave a smiling consent, and thedelighted prince immediately led her out to the centreof the ball-room.The music struck up, and the dance commenced ; butif the beauty, elegant figure, and the splendour of Cin¬derella’s dress, had before drawn the attention andadmiration of every person in the room, the astonish¬ment which was excited by her dancing it is impossibleto describe. The gracefulness of all her attitudes, andthe airy lightness with which she moved, drew forth ageneral murmur of admiration, which, as the prince ledher off, changed into the loudest acclamations ofapplause.A magnificent collation was served up, consisting ofmost delicious fruits, confectionary, and wines; but somuch was the young prince engaged in attending toCinderella, that he did not eat one morsel during thewhole of the evening.Cinderella was seated near her sisters, to whom shefrequently spoke, and gave them a part of the finedelicacies which she had received from the prince ; butthey entertained not the slightest suspicion who she was.During her conversation with them, Cinderella heardthe clock strike eleven and throe quarters, and she;mmediately rose, took a hurried leave of them, andreturned home in her carriage.On entering the house, she found her godmotherwaiting, to whom she related all that had taken placeat the ball, and thanked her a thousand times for thepleasure she had enjoyed. She then told the Fairy,there was to be another ball on tho following evening,to which the prince had given her a very pressinginvitation, and modestly signified the happiness it wouldafford her to be present, on that occasion.Her godmother had just promised to gratify herwishes, when a loud knocking announced the arrival ofher sisters.On their entrance, Cinderella, who pretended to bo12just awakened out of ca sound sleep, fell a rubbing hereyes, and yawned out, “ 0 dear, how very late youhave stopped ! I thought you would never have comehome.”“ Had you been at the ball,” said one of the sisters,‘‘you would not have been so sleepy; for the mostbeautiful and handsome princess ever beheld camethere, who paid us great attention, and gave us a partof the delicacies which the prince had presented to her.”It was with difficulty that Cinderella could refrainfrom laughing; but she concealed her mirth, and in¬quired the name of the princess. They replied, thatnobody knew her.Cinderella said, with a smile, “ How very beautifulshe must be! and how fortunate you were in seeing her!O, if I could only get one peep at her! Dear MissCharlotte, will you lend me one of your old gowns, thatI may go to the next ball, and get a sight of this beau¬tiful lady ? ”“ Do you really think I am so mad as to lend mygowns to a cinderwench ?—No, I am not such a fool;so, go and mind your own business, and leave balls anddresses to your superiors ! ”Next evening the two ladies wont again to tho ball;and Cinderella soon followed them, but dressed in a farmore magnificent stylo than formerly.The prince, who was quite delighted to see her again,did not leave her side the whole evening.13tCinderella was so much taken up with the dancingxnd the civilities of the young prince, that the eveningi.passed away before she was aware ; and the clock strucktwelve when she supposed that it could scarcely boeleven. Alarmed, she sprung from her seat, and almost:3ow out of the ball-room.The prince pursued her, which made Cinderella runthe faster, and, in the hurry, she dropped one of her■glass slippers, which he picked up.Fatigued and breathless, it was with difficulty thatCinderella reached home, in her old clothing, withoutcoach, attendants, or any of her grandeur, except theremaining glass slipper, which she carefully put in herpocket.The prince, who had lost sight of Cinderella when hostooped to lift up the slipper, inquired at the guards ifthey had seen a magnificent princess pass through thepalace gates ; but they said, that no one had gone outexcept a poor beggar girl.When the sisters of Cinderella came homo, she in¬quired, if they had been as well amused as at the formerball, and if the beautiful princess had been there ? Theysaid she had; but, as the clock struck twelve, she flewout of the ball-room, and in the haste, had dropped oneof her fine shaped glass slippers; that the king's sonhaving found the slipper, did nothing but admire itduring the remainder of the ball, and every person saidhe was violently in love with the beautiful princess.14A few days after the ball, the prince caused it to <proclaimed, that he would marry the lady whom tiislipper fitted, and he sent one of the principal officers ihis household round all the ladies of his court. Tilslipper was first carried to the princesses and duchesseand then to the other ladies of inferior rank ; but findirno one it would fit, he returned to the prince with a Iaccount of his bad success.The prince having again ordered him to go round tb Iother ladies in his dominions, it was at last brought tilthe two sisters, who used every exertion to squeeze oJthe slipper, but all to no purpose.Cinderella, who was present during the trial, knowning her slipper, said, with a smile, “ Pray, Sir, may ! Jbe allowed to try it on ?” The two sisters burst out int tjlaughter, and said rudely, “ Very likely, indeed, that iijwill fit your clumsy foot.”The officer, seeing that Cinderella was remarkably!beautiful, desired her to try it on. Cinderella, sittingdown, put it on her foot with the greatest ease.The two sisters were astonished at Seeing it fit so veryexactly; but they were much more astonished whenshe pulled its fellow from her pocket, and put it on like¬wise.At that moment the Fairy entered, unperceived byany one, and touched Cinderella with her wand, whichchanged her poor clothes into a more magnificent dressthan she had ever yet appeared in.15When the sisters found that poor Cinderella was thobeautiful princess, they fell on their knees, and entreatedpardon for their former cruel behaviour.Cinderella raised up her sisters, and then freely for¬gave them ; after which, the officer conducted her tothe prince, who was so struck with her beauty, that hosolicited her hand in marriage.Cinderella gave her consent, and the ceremony tookplace a few days afterwards with great pomp and re¬joicing.The amiable qualities of Cinderella were as conspicu¬ous after as they had been before marriage, by whichmeans she retained the love of her husband, and gainedthe esteem of all who knew her. Although she hadbeen so cruelly used by her two sisters, yet she was sofar from resenting their ill-treatment, that she sent forthem to court; and, by her influence, they were shortlyafter married to two of the first noblemen in the king¬dom.Cinderella spent a long life, in a state of felicity whichseldom falls to the lot of mortals ; nor did she forget toremember with gratitude her friend the Fairy, who hadcontributed so much to her comfort and happiness.HOP-O’-MY-THUMB.Theke once lived in a village a fagot-maker and hiswife, who had a numerous family, all boys ; tho youngestof whom was of the least size ever seen; for when bowas born ho was no bigger than a man’s thumb, whichmade him be christened by the name of Hop-o’-my-Thumb. The poor child was the drudge for the wholehouse, and always bore the blame of every thing thatwas done wrong, though he was far more clever thanany of his brothers.One night when the children were gone to bed, andthe fagot-maker and his wdfe were sitting over a fewlighted sticks, lamenting they could not continue tosupply their children with food, the husband sigheddeeply, and said, “ I will to-morrow morning take themto the forest, and leave them in the thickest part of it,1Gso that they will not be able to find their way back:this will be very easy.”—“Ah, husband!” cried thepoor wife, “you cannot, no you never can consent to bothe death of your own children.” At last, however,she agreed to what her husband had said, and thenwent sobbing to bed.Hop-o'-my-Thumb had been awake all the time ; andoverhearing the conversation, he passed the night inthinking what he should do the next morning. He roseearly, and ran to the river’s side, where he filled hispockets with small white pebbles, and then returnedhome.In the morning they all set out, as their father andmother had agreed on ; and Hop-o’-my-Thumb did notsay a word to either of his brothers about what he hadheard. They came to a forest which was so very thickthat they could not see each other a few yards off. Thefagot-maker set to work, cutting down wood; and thechildren began to gather all the twigs, to make fagotsof them.When the father and mother saw that the young oneswere all very busy, they slipped away, and when thechildren found themselves alone, they began to cry asloud as they could. Hop-o’-my-Thumb let them cryon ; as he had taken care to drop the white pebbles hohad in his pocket along all the way he had come. Hoonly said to them, “ Never mind it, my lads, follow me,and I will lead you back again.”When they heard this, they left off crying, and fol¬lowed Hop-o’-my-Thumb, who soon brought them homoby the very same path which they had come along. Atfirst they had not the courage to go in, but stood at thedoor to hear what their parents were talking about.Just as the fagot-maker and his wife had come homewithout their children, a gentleman of the village sentto pay them two guineas he owed them, which madethem quite happy.The fagot-maker sent his wife out in a moment to buysome meat; and as it was a long time since she hadmade a hearty meal, she bought as much meat as wouldhave been enough for six or eight persons. The truthwas, she forgot that her children were net at home, when17she was thinking of what would be enough for dinner ;but as soon as she and her husband Lad done eating,she cried out, “ Alas! where are my poor children {How they would feast on what we have left! It wasi all your fault, Richard ! I told you over and over that■ we would repent the hour when we left them to starvein the forest! ” and she spoke this so loud, that tho: children, who were all at the door, cried out, “ Hero woi are, mother, here wo are! ” She flew immediately to; them, and kissed them, saying, “ How glad I am to see; you, you little rogues ! Ah, poor little Bobby ! why,thou are dirt all over, my child! let me wash thy face.”Bobby was the youngest of the boys except Hop-o’-my-Thumb; and as he had red hair, like his mother, hohad always been her darling. The children sat downto dinner, and ate very heartily. They then gave anaccount of their return home.The fagot-maker and his wife were charmed athaving their children once more along with them : buttheir money being all spent, they again thought ofleaving them in the forest; and that the young onesmight not come back a second time, they resolved totake them farther away than they did at first.Hop-o’-my-Thumb was now quite at a loss what todo ; but soon after this his mother gave each of thochildren a piece of bread for breakfast; and then it cameinto his head that he could make his share do as wellas the pebbles, by dropping crumbs of it all the way asthey went. So he did not eat his piece, but put it intohis pocket.It was not long before they all set out, and theirparents took care to lead them into the very thickestand darkest part of the forest. They then slipped awayJjy a by-path, as before, and left the children, which didnot give Hop-o’-my-Thumb any concern, for he thoughthimself quite sure of getting back by means of thocrumbs that ho had dropped by the way ; but when hecame to look for them he found that the birds had eatenthem all up.Hop-o’-my-Thumb climbed up to the top of a tree,and looked round on all sides to see if he could find anyway of getting help. He saw a small light like that of18a candle, but it was a very great way off, which they a tlast reached.They knocked at the door, which was opened by atvery good-natured-looking lady, who when she saw theyhad such pretty faces, shed tears, and said, “Ah ! poorchildren, you do not know what place you are come to.This is the house of an Ogre, who eats up little boysand girls.”“Alas ! madam,” replied Hop-o’-my-Thumb, “whatshall we do ? If we go back to the forest we are sure ofbeing torn to pieces by wolves.”The Ogre’s wife thought she could contrive to hidethem from her husband till the morning; so she letthem go in, and made them warm themselves by agood fire.When they had stood a short time by the fire, theyheard a loud knocking at the door ; this was the Ogre,who began to snuff to his right and left, and said, “Ismell children’s llesh ; there is something going on thatI don’t know of.”As soon as he had spoken these words, he wenttowards the bed. “ Ah! madam,” said he, “ you thoughtto cheat me, did you ? Wretch! thou art old and toughthyself, or else I would eat thee up too! But come,come, this is lucky enough; for the brats will make anice dish for three Ogres, who are to dine with me to¬morrow.”The Ogre then took up one of the children, and wasgoing to set about cutting him to pieces ; but his wifesaid to him, “What in the world makes you take thetrouble of killing them to-night? Will it not be timeenough to-morrow morning? ”—“ True,” said the Ogre ;so give them all a good supper, and send them to bed.”Tho Ogre sat down to his wine, much pleased withthe thought of giving his friends a dainty dish. Thismade him drink rather more than common, and he wassoon obliged to go to bed himself.Tho Ogre had seven daughters, who were all veryyoung, like Hop-o’-my-Thumb and his brothers. Theyhad been put to bed early that night, and every one ofthem had a crown of gold on her head. There was anotherbed of the same size in the room, and in this the Ogre’s19?e put the seven little boys, and then went to bed>self along with her husband.iHop-o’-my-Thumb got out of bed in the middle of theI'ht as softly as he could, took off all his brothers’'htcaps and his own, and crept with them to the bedit the Ogre’s daughters were in; ho then took offeir crowns, and put the nightcaps on their headsStead ; next he put the crowns on his brothers’ headsd his own, and got into bed again; so he thought that,:the Ogre should come, ho would take him and his[others for his own children.Every thing turned out just as he wished. The Ogreiked soon after midnight, and began to be very sorry.at he had put off killing the boys till the morning ; soj' jumped out of bed, and took hold of his large knife, a moment. He then walked softly to the room whereley all slept, and went up to the bed the boys were in,lio were all asleep except Hop-o’-my-Thumb, anduched their heads one at a time. When tho OgreIt the crowns of gold, he said to himself, “ Oh, oh! I.id like to have made a pretty mistake. I think, to beire, I drank too much wine last night.” He went next. the bed that his daughters were in, and when ho feltle nightcaps, ho said, “ Ah ! here you are, my lads ; ”hd immediately he cut the throats of all his daughters.1 As soon as Hop-o’-my-Thumb heard him snore, howoke his brothers, and told them to put on their clothesl aickly, and follow him. They stole down softly to thej.arden, and then jumped from tho walls into the road,inning as fast as their legs could carry them.When the Ogre waked in tho morning, he said to hisife, “ My dear, go and dress tho young rogues I sawist night.” Tho Ogress went up stairs to tho room,;nd the first sight she saw was her seven daughtersith their throats cut. This threw her into a faintingt. The Ogre was afraid his wife might be too long ini.oing what ho had set her about, so he went himself to.elp her ; but he was as much shocked as she had been,t the dreadful sight of his bleeding children.He first threw some water on his wife’s face ; and asoon as sho came to herself, he said to her, “ Bring moipiickly my seven-league boots, that 1 may go and catchthe little vipers.” He strode over many parts of jEcountry, and at last turned into the very road in whiBthe poor children were on their journey towards th.Bfather’s house, and which they had now almost reachollThey had seen the Ogre a good while striding fix Imountain to mountain at one step, and crossing rive Iwith the greatest ease. At this Hop-o’-my-Thunthought within himself what was to be done ; and, sping a hollow place under a large rock, he made hbrothers get into it. He then stepped in himself, b;lkept his eye fixed on the Ogre.The Ogre found himself quite weary with the journe:he had gone, for seven-league hoots are very tiresonrlto the person who wears them; so he now began uthink of resting; and as he was tired, he fell fast asleojfsnoring so loud, that the little follows were as mucijafraid as they had been when he stood over them witlla knife in his hand.When Hop-o’-my-Thumb saw this, ho said to hi -brothers, “ Courage, my lads! never fear! You have#nothing to do but to steal away and get homo while theOgre is fast asleep, and leave me to shift for myself.” . fThe brothers now were very glad to do as he tcldSthem, and they soon reached their father’s house. In;the meantime Hop-o’-my-Thumb went up to the Ogre?:softly, pulled off his seven-league boots very gently, and*put them on his own legs; for though the boots werojvery large, yet they were fairies, and so could make >themselves smaller and smaller to fit any leg they }pleased.As soon as Hop-o’-my-Thumb had made sure of theOgre’s seven-league boots, he went at once to the palace, ,and offered his services to carry orders from the king ;to his army, which was a great way off, and to bring ;back the quickest accounts of the battle they were justat that time fighting with the enemy. In short, he 'thought he could be of more use to the king than all bismail-coaches, and so should make his fortune in thismanner.But before lie had made many strides with his boots,he heard a voice that told him to stop. Hop-o’-my-Thumb was startled a good deal, so he looked abouthim to see where the noise came from ; and then hoheard the same voice say,—“ Listen, Hop-o’-my-Thumb,to what I am about to say to you: do not go to thepalace. Waste no time ; the Ogre sleeps, he may awake.“ Know, Hop-o’-my-Thumb, that the two boots youtook from the Ogre while he was asleep are two fairies,and I am the eldest of them. We have seen the cleverthings you have done to keep your brothers from harm,and for that reason we will bestow upon you the gift ofriches, if you will once more employ your wits to a goodpurpose, and be as brave as before. But fairies mustnot speak of such matters as these ; break the shell ofthe largest nut you can find in your pocket, and youwill find a paper inside that will tell you all that youare to do.”Hop-o’-my-Thumb did not stand thinking about thesestrange things, but in a moment put his hand into hispocket for the nut. He then cracked it with his teeth,and found a piece of paper in the inside carefully foldedno ; which he opened, and to his great surprise read asfollows:—“ Go into the Ogre’s door,These words speak, and nothing mora:' Ogress, Ogre cannot come ;Give great key to Hop-o’-my-Thumb.’ ”Hop-o’-my-Thumb now began to say tbo two last linosover and over again, for fear ho should forget them :and when he thought he had learnt them by heart, homade two or three of his largest strides, and soonreached the Ogre’s door.Ho knocked loudly, which brought the Ogre’s wifedown stairs; but at sight of Hop-o’-my-Thumb shestarted back, and looked as if she would shut the dooragainst him. Hop-o’-my-Thumb knew ho had not amoment to lose ; so he seemed as if he did not thinkhow much vexed she was at seeing him who had causedher daughters to be killed by their own father.Hop-o’-my-Thumb then began to talk as if ho was ina great hurry. Ho said that matters were now changed;for the Ogre had laid hold of him and his brothers asthey were getting nuts by the side of a hedge, and wasgoing to take them back to his house ; but all at one®22the Ogre saw a number of men like lords, and wliowere riding on the finest horses that over were beheld,coming up to him full speed. He said the Ogre soonfound they were sent by the king with a messsage toborrow of the Ogre a large sum of money, which hestood in need of to pay his soldiers, as the king thoughtthe Ogre was the richest of all his subjects. Hop-o’-my-Thumb said this on purpose to find out how rich theOgre was. He then said that the lords found themselvesvery much tired with the long journey they had made ;and so the Ogre was vastly civil to them, and told themthey need not go on any farther, because he had aperson with him who would not fail doing in a clevermanner any thing ho was set about. He next said thatthe great lords thanked the Ogre a thousand timeswhen they heard this, and in the name of the king hadgranted to him the noble title of Duke of Draggletail;on which the Ogre had taken off his boots, and helpedto draw them on the legs of Hop-o’-my-Thumb, andgave him this message, which ho charged him by allmeans to make all the haste he could with both ingoing and coming back again:—“ Ogress, Ogre cannot come;Give great key to Hop-o'-my-Thumb.”When the Ogress saw her husband’s boots she was quiteproud at the thought of being made Duchess of Draggle-tail, and living at court: so that she was very ready tobelieve all that Hop-o’-my-Thumb had told her; indeedso great was her joy, that she quite forgot her sevendaughters with their throats cut and bathed in theirblood.She ran in a minute to fetch the great key, and gaveit to Hop-o’-my-Thumb, telling him at the same timewhere to find tho chest of money and jewels that itwould open.Hop-o’-my-Thumb took as much of these riches as hethought would maintain his father, mother, and brothers,without tho fatigue of labour, all the rest of their lives ;saying to himself all the while, that it was better thatan honest fagot-maker should have a part of such greatriches than an Ogre, who did nothing but eat children,23id who kept all the money locked up, without spending■ or giving any to the poor.i In a short time Hop-o’-my-Thumb came to his father'smse, and all the family were glad to see him again,s the great fame of his boots had been talked of atmrt at this time, the king sent for him, and indeedpployed him very often on the greatest affairs of thevato ; so that ho became one of the richest men in thejigdom.i As for the Ogre, he fell in his sleep from the cornerthe rock where Hop-o’-my-Thumb and his brothersid left him, to the ground, and bruised himself so muchum head to foot that he could not stir; so he wasweed to stretch himself out at full length, and wait fornmo person to come by and help him.< Now a good many fagot-makers passed near the placehero the Ogre lay, and when they heard him groan,itey went up to ask him what was the matter. But1 o Ogre had eaten such a’great number of children in histfetime, and had grown so very bulky and fat, that thesenen could not even have carried one of his legs; theyrere therefore forced to leave him. At last the nightEjime on, and then a largo serpent came out of a wood;st by, and stung him, so that he died in great pain.' Before this time Hop-o’-my-Thumb had become thepig’s favourite ; and as soon as he heard the news of.e Ogre’s death, he told his majesty all that the good-ntured Ogress had done to save the lives of himselfhd his brothers. The king was so much pleased atbat he heard, that he asked Hop-o’-my-Thumb if thereB^s any favour he could bestow upon her? Hop-o’-my-humb then thanked the king, and desired that thei gross might have the noble title of Duchess of Dragglc-. il given to her ; which was no sooner asked thani’anted.i The Ogress then came to court, and lived very happyr many years, enjoying the vast fortune she found inae Ogre’s chests.* As for Hop-o’-my-Thumb, he every day grew moreitty and brave, till at last the king made him thereatest lord in the kingdom, and sot him ever all hiai [fairs.HISTORIES, RELIGIOUS TRACTS, SONG BOOKS, &Price ONE PENNY each.SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.2VIXSCEX.X.ANEOUS.1. The Anecdote Book.2. The Scrap Book.3. The Story Teller.4. The Book of Fate.5. The Fortune Teller.6. The Dream Interpreter.7. The Way to Wealth.8. The Medical Guide.9 The Family Receipt Book.10. The Sentimental Reciter.11. The Comic Reciter.12. The Letter Writer.13. The Valentine Writer, Love.14. — — Comic.15. Fireside Amusements.16. Outdoor Amusements.17. The Maid Servant’s Guide.18. The Art of Preserving Health.19. Domestic Cookery.20. The Magic Oracle.21. Life of Ambrose Gwinnett.22. Readings for Winter Evenings.23. Popular Irish Stories.24. Irish Tales and Legends.25. Life of Louis Philippe.26. Life of Sir Robert Peel.27. Life of the Duke of Wellington.28. Life of Napoleon.29. The Spectre Bridegroom, &c.30. Amusing Irish Stories.31. The Exiles of Siberia.32. Life of Rob Roy.33. Toast Master’s Companion.34. Life of Robin Hood, with cirts,35. Life of Robert Burns.36. Life of Sir William Wallace.37. Life of Robert Bruce.38. History of Prince Charles Stua39. Paul and Virginia.40. Robinson Crusoe, with cuts.41. Sindbad the Sailor, tcith cuts.42. Blue Beard, with cuts.43. Whittington and his Cat, wifhcik41. Sovereigns of Gt. Britain, wM cm;45. Cinderella, with cuts.46. Jack the Giant Killer, with cud47. The Yellow Dwarf, with cuts. •48. The Sleeping Beauty, with cuts'49. The Universal Riddler, with cui50. The Little Deserter, with cuts. ,51. The Babes in the Wood, with cui52. The Pictorial Alphabet, with cu.53. JEsop’s Fables, with cuts.54. Games and Am usem en ts, with cui55. The New Year’s Gift, icith cuts.56. The Poetical Alphabet, with cui57. Barbauld’s Lessons, with cuts.58. Ali Baba, or the 40 Thieves, cut59. Alladin, or the Wondf. Lamp, cU\60. The Life of Lord Nelson.61. The Small Preceptor.62. The Child’s Assistant.81. The Juvenile Prayer Book.82. The Private Prayer Book.83. The Family Prayer Book.84. The History of the Jews.85. The Destruction of Jerusalem.86. Religious Anecdotes.87. Scripture Stories.88. Sketch of all Religions.89. History of the Bible, with cuts.90. The Life of Christ.91. The Life of St. Paul.92. The Life of John Knox.93. The Life of Dr Chalmers.94. Watts’s Divine Songs, with cuts95. Sacred History.96. Joseph and his Brethren.97. History of Moses.98. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.99. Lives of the Apostles.100. The Pilgrim’s Progress, with cuts101. The Shorter Catechism.102. The Mother’s Catechism.SONGS.1. The Scottish Minstrel, 1st scries.2.8.4.5.6.2dSd4th5thGth7. The English Minstrel, 1st8.9.10.11.12.2d3d4th5th6thOthers in Preparation.13. The Irish Minstrel, 1st series.14. — — 2d —15. *— — 3(1 —1C. — — 4th —17. The Comic Minstrel, 1st —IS. — — 2d —11). - — 3d —of) — 4th —21. — — Mil —22.   — Ctll —23. The Negro Minstrel, 1st —24. — _ 2d —