■—-THELight Dragoon.To which arc added,j THE ORANGE AND BLUErANDThe HUMOURS of SMITHFIELD.GLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. ROBERTSON,Sakmarket, 1800.( * )*• X + U* * A9t>. *s ' _— -.** 4't.AK A* Ak 4k 4b>J*.Ak4k.4'+.Jh. 4K A± A*. 4VTHE LIGHT DRAGOON.Olf. is a pretty ftory,a (lory you ftiai! hear,Of a jolly light dragoon,as plainly doth appear :He courted a rich lady,of honour, birth and fame,And thought to gain her favour,but it was all in vainHer father was a noble Knight,a man of high renown,And for to marry a foldier,Rwould pull our honour down :For your birth and his birth,they never will agree,So pray young man take your anfwef,and fo begone from me.For an an Twer it is morethan ever I would take,For l would lay down my life,all for the lady's fake.Soon as the Lady heard this,iter heart began to bleed ;Then flraightway the lady and dragoonirere married with fpeed.When erer they v;ere married,and coming beck again.This young Lady efpy’d her father,and feven well armed men.Aloud, aloud the Lady cry’d,I'm afraid we’ll all be {lain.Never fear, faid the jolly dragoon,we’ii rife and fight againThen he faid, My deareft dear,we have no time to prattle,Lor you fee they are all armed,and ready lor the battle.He drew his fword and pifiol,and his coutrements did rattle.And the Lady held the horfe,till the dragoon fought the battle.Hold your hand, hold your hand,her father he did cry,And you {hall have my daughter,and twenty thoufand pound.Fight on, fight on, the Lady cry’d,my fortune is too fmall ;Fight on, fight on, my jolly dragoon,we will o’ercomc them allCome all you pretty fair maidens,that foldiers do admire,O d-o not {light a foldier,irt him be ne’er fo poor.For they are men ot honour,belonging to the crown.Here is a health to George our King,and to this light dragoon.The ORANGE and BLUE.IT was on a Monday morning,as 1 was going to Mals,1 had no xnind of lifting,until they did me preis.Bad eoripany enticed me topartake of a full flowing bowl,And the advance money they gave me,was a guenea and a crown.O! my deareft dear he is lifted,and ta’en a white cockade,O ! he is a clever fellow,befide lie’s a roving blade.Sure he is a clever fellow,and is gone to ferve the King ;My very heart is a bleedingall for the love of hint.It was on a Monday morning,jail by the break, of dayThe Captain commanded the Lieutenant^to march, thofo tneu away.He march’d them all in rank and file,all on the Trilh Ihore.Fare you well fweet Molly dear,if I never fee you more.He pull’d out his pocket-kerchief,and wip’d her cryRal eyes,lie fays my dearett jewelI’m forry for your fighs.But if ever I come back again,and all gooJnefs fpares my life.There is not a woman breathing,but you i'll make my wife.My dear l will convoy you,as far as fw^et Straban,My dearell L'U convoy youas far as e’er I can.My hand I never did giveto any man but you,And now you’re going to leave mefor the orange and the blue.He’s gone, he’s gone and left me,behind him fo. to rove.His name I’ll carve on every tree,through Belanamurry grove,Pleafe God that he return againand his confort make me.I’ll prove a faithful loving wife*until the day l die*4*The Humours of Smith field.A S I v?as a-walkingaii in the month of May,And thrcueh the bars of Smithfield,1 met a Lady gay ;She took me by the hand, andthe call’d me by my name,She faid, (he knew my parents,and the place from whence 1 came.CHORUS.Fall the day, fall the day.Fall the day, fall the day,Right fall the day, fall the day.She took me by the hand, and(he gave to me a kift;Come judge you alt young people,what harm was there in this ?For it was from this loving kifs,I no longer could refrain;For I laid her on the green grafsand kified her again. Fall, & r.She took me to a tavernand liquor for to call.Two rabbits we had roafted,and dainty fauce withal;Tv. o rabbits we had roafted,with good and dainty cheer.Was fet upon the (ablefor me and my fwcct dear.Cher Fail the day fai! the day,Fall the day, fall the day,Hight fall the day, fall the day.! Our fupper being ever,our bodies to advance.The Fiddler he was fent formy love and l to dance;We danced and ciroufed,the bed part of the night,And in each others companywe did take great delight.Fall the day, fall the day, &c.(Then (lie did take me by the hand,and led me to hef bed.And fwore that l that very night,fhonld have her maidenhead ;Then Ihe ramped and (he (lampedher heels againft the floor,With that two frilh bulliescame rulhing to the door, Fal the day, &c.Why are you there proud fellow ?what do you with my wife ?Come anfwer give me quickly,or elfe I’ll take your life,oays the cue onto the p'her,we will not fwear or curfe,U we fpare his fvveet life,we will not fpare his purfe. Fal the, kc.( 8 )When full fifty bright guinea*,out of my purfc they drew,Says the one unto the otherthis is our juft and due.Then the one pull’d off my beaver hat,the other my broad cloth coat,And I ftood trembling on the floor,for fear they’d cut my throat. Fal, &c.When fh« fcad a ftiik provided,for fubftance and for length jAnd about my back {he laid it,with all her might and ftrength :And when (he faw the blood run down,flie call’d me buckfkin fool.She faid, It was the readieft waymy courage for to cool. Fall the day, &'»They dripped me {lark naked,I was as cold as clay,And out of doors they turned me,before the break of day.Now a warning I will take,and a warning will I give,In fuch idle women’s company,what pleafure can you have ?Chor. Fall the day, fall the day.Fall the day, fall the day,Right fall the day, fall the day.Glafgow, Printed by J. & M. RobcrtfinSaltmarket, i8co.