Vice Piwii/hedy and Virtue<Re’vuardedBEING THEH I S T O R YO Fi THomas Thoroughgood,ANDMr Francis Froward,ITwo Apprentices to the fame Mafter.Publifhed at the Requeft of feveralGentlemen of the Common Council|. of the City of London, for the Bene-I fit of all, efpecially young People.j! »Abhor that •which is evil, cleave to that•which is good.4*44*' %*%<*4*GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,MDCCXCVJII.T H E# t m tHISTORYO FMr Tommy ThoroughgoodA N DMr Francis Froward,Two Apprentices to the fame MafterMASTER Thomas Thorough-,good, the younger fon of a2country gemisman, was put out ap¬prentice to an eminent tradefman inCheapfide. The mafter, finding hisbufinefs increafe, was obliged to takeanother about two years after, whofeiname was Francis Froward.Thomas had behaved exceedinglywell, was very diligent and honeft„as well as good; he ufed to fay his, 9prayers conftantly every morning 2and night; he never went to playwhenVICE PUNISHED, AND, &c. 3krhen he fhould be at church, or a-jout his mafters bufinefs; never wasmown to tell a lye, nor ever (laidvhen he was lent on an errand,irhefe rare qualifications had gainedifiini the affection of his mafter and|niilrefs, and made him a favouritein the family before Francis camep them. It was in a great meafureowing to mafter Tommy's charadlerin the neighbourhood, that mafterfreward was induced to comply withihe Mafter’s demands, not doubtingout his fon, in fuch a happy fitua-ion, and with a companion of foiiweet a difpofition, would one day,iurn out to his fatisfadfion, and becomfort to him in his old age.Francis, in the firfl: year of hisIipprenticefliip, began to difeoverhe natural bent of his inclination,de chofe to aftbeiate himfelf withlaughty boys in the ftreets, andfeemed to place his whole delightn ioofe and idle diverfions; he ne-^Icdfed the bufinefs of the (hopwhen at home, and entirely forgotit4 VICE PUNISHED, ANDit when he was abroad. Thefe, ant imany more indifcretions of the liklnature, rommy Fhoroughgood con|eealed at firft from his mafter, thqnot without fome inward uneafinefsL V/(> .ii . >' -l: •. ' >'■'•1 t*In the fourth year’s fervice, on::young fpark, who was an onljjchild, heir to a pretty fortune, gavsfarther proof of his vicious turn o*mind, and frequently launched int<;;follies and debaucheries of a moreheinous nature; for now he made?no fcruple of abfenting himfelf frontchurch on the Lord’s day ; alway?ftaid out late, when he knew hisMailer was engaged in company, andat fuch times, very rarely returneehome fober; nay, he had fometimesthe alTiirance, to lie out of his Maf-ter’s houfe ail night. In order tc|deter him from purfuing this wick¬ed courfeof life, Mr rhoroughgood1threatened to inform his Mailer ofhis fcandalous behaviour, and to ac*kquaint his parents of his1 mifeon-dudf. But, alas! all thefe menacesproved inefFedl&al, and initead oi‘work-VIRTUE UJUV Ai-: rvorking cut his reformation, ferv-d only to heighten his refentmenr,; hd to raife daily fquabbles and ani-Inoiities between them. Hereupon,Llr ThoroUgh^ood, finding all hismod offices hitherto thrown away,t length determined no more toneddle in the~afTair9 or even to of-er his brotherly advice j but to leavehe unhappy youth to follow theffetates of his own perverfe will;: Icing refolved at the fame time, tolake particular care,' that he Riouldot, in any of his mifehievous fre¬es, defraud his Mafler, and there¬by call an odium upon his fellow-rentice.The Mafler was chofen Alderman.■pf the Ward, and Mr Thoroughgood■ ras out of his time in the fam«S^earj and from his faithful fervice,I md unblameable conduct, had now;he whple management of the trade,is well abroad as at home, commit-ed to his care and infpedlion. Thisthreat charge oblig’d him to keep alln&er eye over Francis’ behaviour,whoT.i iwho was juft now entering into th^ i.laft year of his apprcnt-iceftiip. and i-magined his anions were above the r.cognizance of one, who the otherclay was but his equal; and on thisaccount would neither bear his re-!1proof, nor hearken to his arimoni-llion; but continued to riot in all the |i:follies and degeneracies of human [jnature, till his apprenticefhip was t:expired. So true it is, 11 That thev/icked hateth reproof, but the eSI wife man lendeth his ear to im kflrudion.”Mr Francis,having been for a long; iwhile impatient of a fervilc life, was tenow become his own mafler, and ifeemed eager of putting himfelf up- *on a level with his late companion.! *To effect this, he goes down to Irisfather, and prevails upon him tofet him up in the bulmefs, that hejmight trade for himlelf. The reins! awere no fooner laid on his neek,|tiran he gave a loole to his fenfualappetites, and in little more than. :four years, had a ftatiue of bank¬ruptcy ‘jjuptcy taken out again ft him, Theikmexpe&ed news of this fatal event,ijinflantly broke his mother’s heart,• jjnor did the old gentleman furviveJher long. Hereupon, our heir wasiobliged to fell the perianal and mort-, gage the real eftate, to procure his! liberty, and to latisfy the aflignees,i In this finking lituation, after thedays of mourning were over, he left1 the houfe his father lived in. andI returned again to London, wherei he purch a fed a handfome equipage,i; commenced the fine gentleman,I frequented balls, mafquerades, play-! houfes, routs, drums, &c. &c andI cut as good a figure as the belt ofI them, but here let us leave himfor a*whi]e, and turn our eyes to aworthier objeft.In the fame fpace of time, whichTvlr Froward took to fquander awaya good eftate, Mr Thoroughgood,had, by his own induftry. and froma fmall fortune, gained one confide-rably better, and was in a fair wayof increafmg it. The former made, plea-pleafure his bufinefs. but the lattermade bufinefs his pleafure, and wasrewarded accordingly. The Alder¬man, who by his own application,and Mr Thorough good’s ailiduity,was grown very rich, had no childnow living, but one daughter, ofwhom both he and his Lady wereextremely fond; they had nothingfo much at heart, as to fee her wellfettled in- the world. She was theyoungcfi, and juft now turned oftwenty. She had many fuitors, butrefolved to encourage none withoutthe confent of her parents, whowould often, when by themfelves,tell her, that it was their joint opi¬nion, fhe could not difpofe of her-felf better than to Mr Thomas, andwould frequently afk how ihe likedhim? For they would be unwillingto marry her againft her own in¬clination.. Her ufual anfwer was,‘ Your choice fliail be mine; my* duty fhail never be made fubfer-vient to any fenfual paflion.” 1 hisreply was not fo full and exprefliveas they expected* and as mothers-VIRTUE REWARDED* 9; are commonly very dexterous infinding nut ^heir daughters* mala¬dies madam had good reafoci to he.i lieve. from fome obrrrvattoas madeI on Vlifs’s behaviour that h^r afFec-I tions were alreadv fix^d, and thatl| fhe was deeply in love with fome->| body elfe„ which was the cauie ofI her unufual anxiety Hereupon /asfhe was fitting at work one evening,i in a melancholy pofture they calledI her and defircd to be informed whe-fijj ther the hufband they propofed, wasi difagreeable to her, ir ioj fhe fhould: i chufe for herfelf.5■The young Lady after fome hefi-tation, with biuflies confefled her re¬gard for Kir Thoroughgood ; whichgave infinite fausfadtion to the Al¬derman and his Lady, who were o-verjoved at the prolpedt they had, ofmarrying their Daughter to a per-fon of fuch prudence, integrity, andhonour.The next day, as foon 'as dinnerwas over, the Alderman and his La¬dy10 VICE P0NISHED, ANDdy withdrew, and left the two loverstogether all the evening; ironi thisinterview, they became fenfible ofeach otlier’s approaching happinefs,xnd about a month after were join¬ed together, to the great fatisfa<flionof all parties concerned. From thisday, the Bridegroom was taken in¬to partnerlhip, and tranfacfed the Iwhole bufinefs himfelf. In procefsof time his Father-iti-law died, andleft him in pofleflion of all his fub-flance. He fucceeded him alfo inhis dignity, and after having fervedthe office of Sheriff, was in a fewyears called to the chair.Mr Broward, whom we left awhile ago, purfuing his plcafures,and wicked inclinations, had longbefore this time, been reduced to po¬verty. and hke many other thought-lels wretches, betook himfelf to mehighway and garning-table, in hopeof recovering a ioit for tine. He hadfollowed this deftruclive trade withfornc fuecefs, above three years,* without being difcoyered; but wasatVIRTUE REWARDED, ifI at length taken near Enfield, and! brought to his trial at the Old-Bai-lley, during his fellow-prentice’sijMayorarty, and cafl for his life.When he was brought to the barJto receive fentence, his Lordfhip re-colletliRg Mr Froward’s name exa-: mined who he was, and afked if hewas not the fame perfon that ferv-ed his time with Mr Alderman—in Cheaplide. This he politively de¬nied ; but notwithftanding, he ufedJ all pbfiible means to difguife him-| felf his perion and fpeech betrayedhtrn. My Lord animated with theI principles of compaffion and bene'svolence, and imagining that his de~ifign of concealing himfelf, in this|i wretched fituation, might Very pro-|babiy proceed from lhame or de~I fpair took no further notice of kJin court, but forgetting his prcfencdifgrace, as well as his former ar-i rogance and indiferetion, privatelyprocured his iemence to be changedUnto tranfportation for life.\\ The fhip in which Mr Frowardij VICE PUNISHED, ANDemharkrd, drove, byftrefsof weathinto a certain port in Jamaica where,in iefs than ten.days, he was foldto a noted planter and doomed toperpetual 11avery You may imaginehow (hocking this profpe6l mudappear to a gentleman, who hadjuft “before, fqu;mdered away a goodeft ate in indolence and pleafure. whonever knew what it was to work,nor had never given himfeif time tothink upon the nature of induftry.However, he no fooner began to re¬flect upon his prefenr wretched (itu*ation, and his late providential de- |liver a nee fr .in death, than he alfobegan to repent of his former tranf-grcdli os; and finding hinfelf in aftra.ige country, unknown to anyperson about him he patiently fub-mirted his neck to the yoke, and en¬dured his fervility, with an unco n-mon fortitude of mind In the firftplace he determined during all thelime of his labour to offer up c m-tinual thankfgivings. to AhnightyGod,-for his manifold mercies be¬dewed on fo unworthy a creature,and5"VIRTUE REWARDED, 13iiand to devote all his leifure hoursto the duty of repentance. His nextrefolution was, to obey his Mader’scommands, to ferve him faithfully,and, to perform whatever bufmefswas impofed on him, fo far, and folong as hea'th and ftrength wouldpermit; not doubting, but the fameGod, who had preferved him hither¬to, in fuch a wonderful manner,would accept the .oblations of a con¬trite heart, and enable him to gothrough it with courage and chear-fulnefs. . ■)'The firft month’s fervice, as hehimfelf told me, went very hardwith him. His hands blidered, hisfeet grew fore and raw, and the heatof the climate was almod infupport-able; but, as cudn n makes everyftation familiar, before three monthswere expired, all thefe grievanceswere at an end; and ne, naturallyendued with a fpirit of emulation,would not fuffer himfelf to be out¬done by any of his fellow-flaves Thefuperintendant obferving his extra¬ordinary14 VICE PUNISHED, ANDordinary adiduity, could not helptaking notice of him, and wouldfrequently give him encouragement,either by calling him off to go on atrivial errand, or by thruiVmg fomemoney into his hand. He behav¬ed in this manner near two years,when ins Mailer was informed of hisgood difpoiition, and removed himfrom that laborious employment toan eaher, where he had more fre¬quent opportunities of paying ado- ;ration to that Almighty Being, whofujpported him under all his alliic-ticns. In thefe intervals, he was ge¬nerally found with a book in Idshand, or on his knees, from whichpractice, he received great confola-tion, as he often allured me.At the expiration of three years,Sir Thomas Thoroughgood, whomade previous enquiry after his fel¬low-prentice’s behaviour abroad, fentorders to his agent in Jamaica, topure hale Mr Froward’s freedom, andto advance him one hundred pounds,that he might be enabled to get hisownVIRTUE REWARDED. 15own livelihood; but, at the fame timegave ftr'uR orders to his friend, notto let Mr Froward know who washis benefactor, and to lay his Ma¬iler under the like injunction. In a ^fhort time after, Mr Froward wasdifcharged from flavery; but did notexprefs fo much joy on the occaiion,as might have been reafonably ex¬pected. From the good ufage he metwith in fervitude, and the unufualfavours he received from the fuper-intendant, as well as the planter, hehad conceived a great liking for ‘thelatter, and feemed to part with himnot without fome inward reluCtance,though with apparent furprize, whichwas much heightened by the addi¬tional favour, of a note for a hun¬dred pounds, payable upon light toMr Francis Froward, or order, deli¬vered to him by the lame hand, foonafter he received the difcharge beforementioned.I Daring this confufion, the gentle¬man who really had a value for hisHlate fervant, told him, he was wel¬comei6 VICE PUNISHED, ANDcome to be at his honfe till he wasfettled, and that he would do all thegood offices in his power, to promotehis future welfare. Mr. Fro ward re-* plied, Sir, yon cannot do me great¬er fervice, than to let me know,“ who is my generous benefactor ;“ becaufe it is incumbent upon me“ to make fome acknowIegement.,?The Mailer pofitively refufed to do ;this, and turned off the difcourfe,by alking how he intended to dif-pofe of himf'elf and money “ Sir,”fays he, “ I am not unacquaintedwith the nature of trade, and la- «hour is become habitual to me, t14 and, as I am well fkilled in' the44 cultivation of the fugar cane, I“ would willingly rent a fmail plan- i44 tation of that kind, and work up- f44 on it for mvfelf.” The Planter I ittapproved of his defign, and promif- Ked him affiftance.In about a month after, Mr ’Fro- Ifward met with a bargain, agreeable |to his Jubilance, and worked upon fit as hard as if he had been a reallllavelVIRTUkUKWAkbku. .7flave, with this difference only, thathe could now fpare more time in thefervice of his all-powerful Redeemer.In the interim, his late Mafter pro¬cured him a wife, with a handfomefortune, who had a fugar-work ofher own, and force negroes: he pur-chafed more, and by his induftry thri¬ved amain, fo that in a few years, helaid-up one thoufand pounds in fpecie.In this comfortable Rate, nothing<! gave him uneafinefs, but that heI could not come to the knowledgeif of his kind benefadlor; never wasliman more anxious to fhow his gra-iijtitude, or more felicitous to findcout his friend: One day, as he wasmat his devotion, a firange gentlemanrlcame to his habitation, and defiredjto fee him. He was no fooner ad-mnitted, than he accofted him in the(^following manner, “ Mr Froward,u I am commander of the Dove fri-1“ gate, whofe principal owner is Sir4 Thomas Thoroughgood, and am'* juft arrived from England : By Sir‘ Thomas’s orders, 1 am to informyouyou, that his Jamaica Agent isti dead, and he has made choice of“ you to fncceed him here in that“ ilation. I have a commilTion from“ him, for you in my pochet, to dif- ]“ pofe of my cargo, and to freight“ me again for my voyage home.“ He never would own it, but 1 am“ well allured, he is the perfon who‘‘ faved your life, who redeemed(i you from bondage, and was the11 foie inftrument of your prefent jprofperitv.” Nothing could giveMr Froward fo gjeat pleafure and |fatistadlion, as this laft piece of in- Itelligence ; he» knew not how to |make the Captain v/elccme enough, Ihe kept him all night, and in the Imorning made him a prefent of a Ihogfhead of rum. He made all fpcllible difpatch in difpofing of his Tcargo, and freighted him out with Ithe utmoll expedition. With the reftof the goods, he lent Sir 7 homasten hoglheads of fegar, and as many 'of mm, as a preient, with the fol->lowing letter.Honour- |Honoured Sir,Trati/ported with joy, and drowned intears, I fend this teflimony of my ef.eem,of which I humbly hope your acceptance,as well as thofe fmall tokens of my gra¬titude, with which it is accompanied.Next under God, \fis to you, dear Sir, that1 owe my life, my liberty, and my all.Happy me, had I lifenid to your advicein my non-age; happy fill, as by yourmeans, / have, been directed to the pathsof virtue. 'Tis to you I am indebted formy prefent comfortableJituaiion, and thedawning profpedl of future happinejs sThe bills of lading, are jlni by 7vfr— , and all your bufintyi here, withwhich I am intrufted, Jhali It executedwith the uimof diligence and fidelity. Ihave only to add my prayers for the con¬tinuation of your life and health., whohave been fo beneficial to many, but moreparticularly to.Honoured Sir,Tour mofi humble, mofi obliged,thd moft unworthy fervant,Francis Froward,Sir,20 VICE TUNISSir Th-omwith the purport of his letter, t>ho’ herallied the Captain for letting himknow to whom he was obliged for hisfreedom. The fame fhip was fent thenext feafbn on the fame voyage, whenthe Captain was ordered to pay MrFroward the full price for the ruinand fugar he had fent to the Knight,and to deliver him the following let¬terMr F R,0 WAR D,Sir,I thank you for the acknowledgementyou made for the good offices I did you^and Jhall ever' efeetn the prefent as it•was wit ended-, but have neither powernor inclination, to rob you of any thingyou have acquired by dint of merit. My ■deftgn is, to add to your acquifitions, andnot to diminifh them, as you will expe- :rience; only, perfevere in your prefent ’•courfe */ hje, and you will make me ampleamends for all I have done, or can do Jor £you, I am, Hr,Tour real friend,T, Thoroughgood. ,. ; MrmMsm Ias was highly pleafedi VIRTUE REWARDED. 21Mr Froward, who w-as uneafy thathis friend refufed his prefent, con¬tinued in a thriving condition feve-rai years. And now his wife died *f\ without ifliie; he, grown very rich,and advanced in years, difpofed ofthe fugar-work, and left off allmanner of bufinefs, except that ofa Sir Thomas Thoroughgood’s. At; length he himfelf was feized withf a peftilential fever, and carried offi in a few days. He bore the'tortureiof his diftemper with exemplary pa¬tience, and met his approaching defU-ny with an intrepidity of foul fcarceji to be paralleled.That you may the better judgeIof his fentiments of gxatitudej Ihave herewith fent a copy of hislail will.In the Name of God, Amen. I -Francis Froward of , in Jamaica,being of found mind and memory,do hereby make my laft will andteflament, in form and manner fol—( lowing, that is to fay,Imprimis*22 VICE PUNISHED, ANDImprimis. I bequeath my foul toAlmighty God that gave it, hoping,and fully trading, that I fhall befaved and made eternally happy bythe merits of my dear Redeemer Je-fus Chrift, who fuffered for me andall mankind.Item. As the poor convidls in pri-fon, where I had once the misfor¬tune to be confined, are not attend¬ed, and inftrucled as they ought tobe, by perfons who feek their eter- inal falvation; I do give and bequeath jififty pounds a year, to pur chafe fortheir ufe, fuch books as the Arch-bifhop of Canterbury, the Biihop ofLondon, and Sheriffs of London andMiddlefex fhall think proper to put'into their hands.Item. As the laws of England, .however wifely conftructed, have cmade no proviiion for poor people ;born in difiant parts, and become i:miferable there, but left them to •perifh in the ftfeets, lanes, and pub- ilie places; I do give and bequeathfiveVIRTUE REWARDED. 23five hundred pounds a year, to be■1 laid out for their relief, in fuch amanner as {hall feem mofl: agree-able to the Lord-Mayor of London,!for the time being, and to the trul-Itees that ihall be nominated by myll executors.Item. And as many poor trades-■.! men and labourers are artfully fe-.! duced and perfuaded, to enter them-i felves on board merchant diips, forthis and other colonies in his Ma-:■ jelly’s dominions, and are after¬wards at fea, unv/arily drawn in to.[indent themfelves fervants to the^owners of the veffel, and from that[ moment commence Haves ; and as■fuch are fold in the public markets::of the colonies, and generally ill-| treated; Ido give and bequeath fivej hundred pounds a year, for the re-jdemption of fuch unhappy people,and for the profecution of thofe whoi have been the abettors and contri--i vers of their ruin.Item.24 VICE PUNISHED, &c.hem. As gratitude is of all obla¬tions the greateft and moft accepta¬ble, I do give and bequeath to mydear friend Mr Thomas Thorough- <jgood. Merchant in London, who la- |ved me from an ignominious death, Iand redeemed me from flavery, all thereft and relidue of my real and per- ;foiial eftate ; and I do nominate and Iappoint him, and his heirs and exe- 1cutors, my heirs and executors for e-ver. In witnefs whereof, I have here- ;unto fet my hand and feal, this thirdday of May, 1740., Francis F&oward.4WitnefsThomas Williams,John Wilfon,Richard Jones.