EDINBURGH;Printed ivy -ifui J, A>kntvo„0.1' «v D. BROWN, SOOTH SRID'O.E; A. JOHNSTONS, i,a V V'; FiNLAY, !2i C4LTON .•JTaKS’*',-.u -( ^ OP SCOTIAN..HIS TOR YOFHARDY, THE SOLDIERSHEWINGKOW HE LEFT THE PLOUGH TO ENLISTIN THE ARMY;'!>r le/-fg engaged in many Battles abroad, returned to e:icIds day’ in ike Cottage in •which he was Born,HISTORYOFUARB Y, the SOLDIER.RELIGION makes me happy every where,” sakl the old sol¬dier, Hardy, as he rested his weal-}' limbs on a mossy bank,side the road, and stooped down to quench his thirst from a purlingream which flowed at his feet. “ Many a time,” added he, talking) himself, “ have I drunk from this brook in years which are passed,bile I was watching my sheep, or as I came hpme thirsty from har-rst. Sweet is the memory of joys that are fled, especially the recol-ction of youthful delights after scenes of such toil arid distress as I;ve witnessed. Over burning sands and icy plains, trackless wastes»d tempestuous seas have I passed. Many a time have I attackedie daring foe, stormed his fortified entrenchments, braved the cannon’s?ar, and inarched to victory over the dead bodies of my comrades,fften have I been wounded, and yet what a mercy that I am still alive,id that I am permitted once more to approach my native village inL-alth I What shall I render unto the Lord for all his goodness ?” 'aying this, the veteran warrior, kneelhng, poured out his prayer to>od, and his tears of gratitude and joy, flowing down the furrows jliich time had ploughed in Ids cheeks, were lost in the streams 6f the 1ubbling rivulet.Edward and Amelia, the two beloved children of Mr. Benson, hadeen sitting and reading in a little bower which they had built, just 1ehind the bank on which the aged soldier was seated- When theyrst saw’ him approaching, they laid aside their books, to indulge thatiquisitive curiosity’ which is so natural to the young, by noticing theqndvet of this hoary traveller. After the old soldier had concluded |us devotions, leaning on his staff, lie arose, and pursued his journeyvith trembling steps. Edward and. his sister, on seeing this, immedi-tely ran down the lawn, and opening the garden-gate, went out into ,he road and me* Hardv, who pulled off his hat and bowed ; as the j/onng gentleman and lady approached him.Edward went up to the old soldier, while his sister waited a littleaehind, and looking him in the face, with aflectionate sympathy helard, “ Poor old man ! you seem to be very feeble and aged.” “ Pewand evil have the days of my pilgrimage been,” replied Hardy ; “ butr['hope at last to end them in the place which gave me birth, for I canaow see the little cottage in which I was born, upon the hill yonder*' . ~ [No. l.Jamidst the cluster of trees.” “ That cottage is my father’s,” t>a;Edward, “ and I will ask him to give it to you.” Thank you, mdear young gentleman ; but, perhaps, your father knows nothing tpoor Hardy ; though forty or fifty years ago I worked for the ’squirwho*occupied the hou'jp in which you live ; but there are so man. changes in this uncertain world that I suppose it is possessed by somother family now.” “ What was that gentleman’s name ?” inquire.Edward, with his characteristic warmth and eagerness. “ His namwill never be forgotten by me, it was ’squire Benson.” (< My gransfather,” exclaimed Edward ; « did you really work for him ?” “ Yes,’:replied Hardy ; “ and now I look at, your face, I see that you are thivery i;nage of the good old gentleman. How js your dear father ? ioften nursed him when a baby, and played with him wheli a child : Ivwas always very fond of Hardy, and I loved him exceedingly.” Whei.the old soldier had said this, Edward took hold of one hand, and A-melia .of the other, while both of them cried out, “ You must come to' papa, he will be so glad to see you!” Saying this, they dragged bin',along with them to the gate.Mr. Benson happening to see his children leading a poor old soldierup the gravel walk, went out and began to chide them for their famili¬arity with such a person, and commanded them to come to him im-imediately. “ Do not be angry. Sir, with your dear children,” saidI Hardy, addressing Mr. Benson, “ tor I have many a time in forme:.years carried you in these arms, and led you about this garden—haveyou iorgot your old servant. Hardy r” “ Forgot my •old servant.Hardy ! no,” said Mr. B. running and taking him by the hand, “ I| remember you still, though your skin has been darkened by the sun,I and wrinkled by age. You are welcome to this house, and here youi:i may almost fancy yourself young again, while you review the scenes II of youth.”When they arrived at the mansion of Mr. Benson, Edward and A -melia were busily employed in the kitchen, waiting upon the aged sol¬dier : they brought him the old arm-chair, which he said he knew ftftvI years ago, and they seemed emulous which should be most active anddiligent in serving him ; while he continued thanking them, and de¬claring that he ought rather to wait upon them. Mr. and Mrs. Ben¬son stood at some little distance, beholding with conscious pleasure theI benevolent exertions of their amiable children, who had enjoyed the ■unspeakable advantages of a pious education, which they appeared tovalue and improve. Young persons should always esteem it their dutyand their happiness to relieve tke distressed, and to do good by all themeans in their power ; especially those who have been taught to loveGod with all their hearts, and to love their neighbours as themselves,4;•While they were thus employed, old Isaac, the shepherd, walkedto the kitchen, leaning on his crook, and followed by Iks shaggy-tired dog : immediately as Hardy observed him, he started from hisat, and ran tor embrace his old play-mate and fellow-servant. Theeeting was mutually delightful ; they had never expected to see eachther again, the sweet scenes of youthful days arose to their minds,:d their feelings were so strong that ii ey 'could not utter them. Sce-ig this, Mr. Benson beckoned to his children to come away, and leave-'se two old friends to themselves.Edwaid and Amelia, when they w.ere seated in the parlour, related0 their parents the manner in which they had become acquainted withlardy, and they requested their father to tell them something abouthe early pa^t of his life. “ Hardy’s,father,” said Mr. Benson,‘ lived in the service of your grandfather; and all his children, as soon.s they were able to work, were employed on his estate. Hardy was'1 sharp clever lad, of a remarkably easy and mild disposition. Myather taught him the first principles of knowledge, and indeed wasather partial to him, on account of his cheerfulness and willingness toiblige. He was quite a favourite with me, and with all my youngjompanioTis, because he was so good tempered, and no fond of chil¬li en : nothing pleased him so much as to take a walk with us, and'tooin in our little amusements. He seemed a well-disposed lad ; butwhen he gtew up to be a man, he became connected with some badtom pan ions, who gradually led aim astray, and at last persuaded himfo despise the simple toil of a peasant’s life, and to enlist as a soldier.! recollect the time when Hardy came, to take leave of us : I lovedhim so much that I could not refrain funn tears, and he seemed ex¬ceedingly grieved to part with me. Your grandfather gave him someexcellent advice, and seme pious books, before he departed ; but sincehe left us, we have heard nothing of him till the present day, and we |supposed that he had lost h;s life in battle,”When Mr. Benson had concluded his account, Ydvvard went up tohim and took bold of hr hand, while Amelia climbed up his knee ;.and they both joined in requesting their father to give Hardy the little »cottage upon the hill, in which he waS born, and to take care of himin his old age. Their lather told them that he was delighted to see .•j.the generous warmth of their dispositions, but that benevolence should 'ia.ways be guided by prudence. He was pleased with what he hadlately heard of Hardy’s character, but it would be necessary to ex¬amine it with greater care, before they engaged to support him. “ Ifit should appear,” said lie, “ on examination, that he is become a vir¬tuous and pious man, we will then consider how we can Trlieve him mtrie best manner, and your father's assistance will assuredly not feewanting, if it can be propeily bestowed.”After dinner, the young people.obtained permission from tbe’r pa¬rents to bring Hardy into the parlour. They both of them ran intothe kitchen to carry the invitation : there they found the two agedfriends talking of old times and acquaintances, while the plough-boysand maid-servants were listening eagerly -to their Conversation. It wasdtiRctilt to part them, and Hardy was obliged to promise that he would.spend the evening at Isaac’s cottage before he was permitted to go.When Hardy was seated, Edward placed-his chair on one side, andAmelia on the other, and they immediately began -to ask him a great.number of curious questions on a variety of subjects : what countrieshe had visited ?—what battles he had fought ?-—what victories wereobtained ?—and what wounds he had received ? Hardy answered theirinquiries in so interesting a manner that he gained their affections, andsoon became their favourite. Edward promised that he would savepart oi his pocket-money for Hardy,' and would make him welcome toseme of the fruit from his own little garden. AroeHa said she wouldmake him a new shirt, and knit him a warm pair of stockings againstthe winter. Mr. Benson having remained a silent spectator for sometime, at length requested his children to be quiet ; and desired Hardyto give an account of himself from the time lie left his native village lothe present period.Hardy, in compliance with the request of Mr. Benson, commencedl :s narrative, as follows :—“ Your honour recollects the timefwhenallured and deceived by some idle and vicious companions, I enlisted rua soldier, and thus forsook the service of your respected father, whos<kindness I shall never cease to remember. My youthful imaginatfoiwas full ol the pleasures and honours which I expected to receive in ;sliort time, and I never thought of any dangers or hardships which 1might experience. How often do the young indulge these foolish ancdeceitful hopes ! At first, I was marched about to different places i.England ; I soon found my expectations false, and earnestly wishesthat I could leave my musket and return to the plough ; but this waimpossible. I quickly forgot the pious instructions which I receive*from your excellent father, and though in the beginning I was shocke<!at the profaneness and depravity of my comrades, yet, being accustomed to behold it, I soon learned to imitate their evil examples.“ In a few years our regiment received orders to embark for foreigiservice. I felt some degree of sorrow at quitting my native countnand shed a tear or two as we lost sight of that land which wc nevelexpected to revisit. However, those feelings -were soon lo’st amidsthe bustlcj the gaiety, and the laughter of tinful companions. Thong6my countenance often tore the appearance of mirth and cheerfulness, |yet, when I reflected, conscience made me miserable, and I possessed |to real heart-cheering happiness. The religious impressions made on I*my youthful heart were never entirely obliterated, though I ardently Ihvished that I could banish every sentiment of remorse from my mind,•and commit sin without compunction : but this I found impossible.- •“ We were engaged abroa>d in many battles, too numerous to men-uon. I have often seen whole ranks of my fellow-soldiers hurried intom eternal world ; three times I have been wounded, and once was left' or dead on the field of battle. Notwithstanding these awful scenes,ny heart was hardened through the deceitfulness of sin, and I becamencreasingly depraved. Thus I went on for many years, thoughtlessbf God and an eternal world ; but I was at length arrested in my madCareer by the hand of disease. I was confined to the hospital, and layror many months upon the bed of sickness, in great pain of body, andtill greater distress of mind. My old jovial companions now almost.?orsook me, or if they paid me a visit, I found that their mirth and‘ augbter only increased my sufferings. In these circumstances I re¬solved to read attentively the books which your father gave me, andvhich I had carefully preserved ; from them I derived much instruc-’ioai, especially from the Bible, which I have ever since carried in mytnapsack.“ At this time I very much felt the want of a Christian friend, tofvhom I could disclose my feelings, and who could instruct me on'‘nany subjects which I could not understand. At length, I recollect-d that there was an old Scotch Highlander in our regiment, whom Ibad often ridiculed for his piety : to him I was at first ashamed tolend, till I recollected various instances in which he shewed his kind¬ness to those who had abused him. I sent, and the same evening(Douglas (for that was his name) came, and placed himself by my.bed-cide. I immediately began to beg his pardon for the injuries I hadi one to him in former times ; but he desired me to feel no uneasinesssn that account, as Ire always made a point, when reproached by hisompanions, to offer a silent prayer to God on their behalf; and he’’oped that his petitions for me would now be answered. 1 then toldrim that I had received a pious education, had frequently felt religious(npressions which were afterwards effaced, and was exceedingly alarm-id at my present situation, lest I should be unprepared for an eternalVate to which I might probably soon be summoned.» “ Douglas endeavoured to give me all the information in his power:le told me to examine ^iy own heart, t^ Cbnsider my past life, and to^certain my present feelings, . He displayed the exceeding sinfulnessf sin, and my own inability to Save myself, ia the most striking man-(ner. He said that if 1 vrerc not indisposed, I should not need ihe1 physician ; so, if my soul were not infected with the malady of sin, Ii should not feci any necessity for a.Saviour. I answered, that it wasa deep sense of my sins which made me unhappy, and a consciousnessI of my weakness which led me to look for support from some other1 source. ' He said, if such were my sentiments, the gospel of JesusChrist was exactly suited to my case ^ for he came not to call thejrighteous, but sinners to repentance. ‘ We have all deserted our law¬ful general and sovereign,’ continued he, ‘ and gone over to the armyof Sin and Satan; we have loved their service, and have worn their: uniform. We deserved the severest vengeance which the King of■ kings and Lord of lords could inflictbut the Son of our Sovereign,the Captain of salvation, the Prince of peace, while in his Father’scourt, beheld our deplorable situation, and loved and pitied us. He'frequently sent forth messengers, and proclamations of mercy, to in¬vite the rebels to return ; but the great majority still preferred the ser¬vice of the usurper, and rejoiced in the dominion of the prince of dark-mess. At length, the only begotten Son of God resolved to quit theicourt of heaver-, to take upon him the nature of man, to enter ttie campi of the enemy, and invite the rebels to return to their legitimate Ruler..He came, not with the sword of justice, or the thunders of vengeance,ibut with messages of pardon, peace, and happiness. The prince ofjllthis world was immediately alarmed ; he excited his subjects to reject|these'offers of mercy : he armed his soldiers, and they seized the Am-ibassador of heaven—they crucified the Lord of life and glory. Weiimight have supposed that God would instantly punish- these rebelsIwith the severest vengeance, and that none who had so offended wouldfever find mercy ; but no : he raised his Son from the grave to sit at|his right hand; and now forgiveness, salvation, and eternal happinessliare proclaimed to every penitent sinner, through the merits of JesusI Christ. Thousands have accepted these merciful invitations; thevShave enlisted in the army of the Lord of hosts ; they have put on thewhole armour of God ; they have fought the good fight of faith ; they(Lave vanquished their enemies : and now are staging the songs of vic-ijtory, and praising their glorious leader in heaven. Many Christian■ I warriors are stiH in the scene of conflict ; they feel that the contest isRsevere, and that their adversary is exceedingly subtle and powerful:now he boldly attacks, then he conceals himself in ambush—some-itimes he appears inactive, that we may become unwatchful, at otheritiines his assaults are impetuous, that we may despair. Our enemy iscontinually endeavouring to seduce us again to his service, and he willI surely succeed if we are not careful and dependant on our Captain for|: assistance.. Nor will our contest and danger cease till we have obtain-ir.fd the victory over death ; and then ejray faithful warrior will*join ithe triumphs of his glorious Leader. Oil ! may vve be there to par-y take the joy, and sing the praises of Emanuel !”“ These representatiofls of the gospel, so suited to a soldier, were3 repeatedly enforced in .diffeeect conversations by Douglas, who was ary experienced veteran in the Christian warfare. He,explained the scrip,;s tures, and prayed with me as often as he could, and I found roy know,c ledge of divine things constantly inortpsing ; so that I have, .t.le bestj reason to say,It is good for me that I have been afflictedbefore3, was afflicted I went astray, but now' have I kept thy word/ It pie:, ed God gradually to.'restore ,me N» belter, isea^h, still witr much remaining..Weakness ; and I trust^rhe sce.dsk,fV^iig^cfe,’,xhich wety Sown in my heart, and watered ttyy affliction, grew and, became flourisc ing when strength returned. I was enabled to feu,.ike my old co:‘ panions, and with Douglas! apd two or tliyee oilier pious soldiers,found, it pleasantand. profitable to maiatain .fficncship founded iarms a eraChristian principles. I was not, strong enopgh, to bearand being almost worn out in the service .by.-fatigue nhd.nge, 1 wasdered.to. return to my native country. I .shallfnever forget tip tin*■when I parted from Douglas and the pious soldiers : we spent thwhole night together in -prayer.and religious cpnver inti on •; in themornimg, they accompanied me to the boat, aad w e took leave cf each otlwith mutual regret. .“ After a tempestuops voyage, we arrived at Portsmouth. T1right of old England delighted my heart, j hastened.on' shore, anbehind a rock offered my most grateful praise* to the God, of' evermercy, I have walked f:om th.er.ee, and am at length arrived at tliplace, so sweet to my memory—so dear to any heart. In this yillaaI hope to Spend my few remaining, days, and to sleep in the gravwhere my fathers? are buried ; there the weary are at rest, and then th3 Christian soldier will reach his heavenly country, and his eternal home.Mr. and Mrs. Benson, and their children, were exceedingly pleasawith Hardy's interesting story. In a few days they settled him in 1.[ little native cottage, and crowned his old age with comfort and penes jWhen the writer of this account lately visited his friend Mr. Bensoj;„ he went to Hardy’s, cabin, and was much pleased with his gratitud t. and seriousness. Edward and Atjaelia were then in the bloom <,, youth, the comfort of their parents, anti the friends of the poor ; :i;j them benevolence and wisdom, respectability and piety are liappilunited.THE END,