LIVESOF THEMOST CELEBRATED ANCIENTKINGS of SCOTLAND,EMBELLISHED WITH ENGRAVINGS.Printed for R. SMITH, BookfeU*.SY W. FALCOMER,1801.!<:>Jh*-^ , /»yMi'}' « 'LIVESOF THEMOST CELEBRATED ANCIENTKINGS OF SCOTLAND.FERGUS It. grandfon to Eugene I. a-fcended the throne in the year 404.—■Some hiflorians will have him to be the firilmonarch of Scotland. However, it is prettyplain that he was a native, and that, after re¬turning into Scotland from exile, he, withthe help of the Danes, Goths, and his owncountrymen, who were gathered unto himout of all countries where they had been dif-perfed, greatiy haralled the Britons till theycalled in the Romans to their afliftance, inthe year 418; his army was then defeated ina pitched battle, and himfelf ilain in the 16thyear of his reign. He left three fons veryyoung, and Graham (from whom the wall ofSeverus got the name of Graham’s Dyke)their grandfather by the mother’s fide wasappointed Guardian over them till they came6 ,EUGENIUS II.Eugenius II. Fergus’s eldeft fon fucceededhim in the year 420. When he came of agehe followed his father’s Heps in harafling theBritons after the departure of the Romanarmy. He vanquifhed them in a pitched bat¬tle, in which 14,000 of the Britons and 4000of the Scots were ilain; after which he offeredthem peace, on conditions of their calling inno afliflance from foreign parts ; of makingneither peace nor war wdthout concurrenceof the Scots; the river Humber to be the-boundary of their kingdom ; and their pay¬ing a certain fum annually for the ufe of theScots foldiers to repel any invafion of foreign¬ers. The Britons rejedted the terms, and in¬vited over the Saxons, by whofe aid, theyrouted the Scots at Grantham, and Eugeni¬us was drowned in crofling the Humber inthe 3 2d year of his reign.’VM':■ T /J/sIEUGENE ’■. .*jEUGENE IV.Eugene IV. fucceeded Kenneth I. andwas the fon of Aidan, who being nominatedking by Kinnatel, and confirmed by the peo¬ple, was, in the year 570, inflalled by Colum-ba, a man of great authority. He cleared theprovince of Galloway of many bands of rob¬bers that infefted it: afterwards, he invadedthe,territory ofEthelfred kingof the Northum¬brians, and gained fome confiderable advan¬tages over him ; but, at lad, received fuch amortifying defeat, that, on his return home,he died of grief. The city of Edinburgh isfaid to be indebted to this Monarch for herorigin and name. Eugene enjoyed the thronepeaceably fixteen years.ETFINUS.Etfinus, fon of Eudenius VII. began toreign in the year 731, and governed the king?-*4'dom with juftice for 31 years; being thenold and unable to manage alone; he appoint¬ed four of his nobles as regents : They, ashas too often happened, to enrich themfelvesabufed their power ; and the good old King,enable to filence the clamours of his fubjects,.by removiug thefe wicked minifters, died-oi?grief in 762,ACHAIUS,Aghaius, fon of Etfin, in the year 788,-in whofe reignythe Irilh made a defcent upon.Kintyre, but were foon expelled by the in- ,habitants, and loft many ftiips in their return'home. They afterwards folicited Achaiusfor peace and friendfliip which was grantedthem.—Charlemagne, or Charles the Greatof France, entered into the ftri&eft alliancewith Achaius, and both nations mutuallyaflifted each other with troops.—Alcuin, anative of Scotland, a man famous in this agefor his learning, being Charles’s Preceptor-»- *# ■promoted this friendthip, which fubfifted fora long feries of years, without interruption.Achaius reigned 32 years, and was fucceed-ed by his nephew.EUGENIUS VIII.E.ugenius VIII. fon of Murdac, accedingto the throne in the year 76 2, called the lateRegents to account; put one of them to deathand infli&ed heavy fines on the reft ; but af¬terwards, reclining in the arms of peace, hegave a loofe to irregular paffions, and grow¬ing infinitely worfe than the Regents, washimfelfput to death for the public benefiiy inthe 3d year of his reign.ALEXANDER LAlexander I. Edgar’s brother fucceed-ed him in 1107. His reign was remarkable,only for the introduction of filver coin, anddifputes with his nobles, occafioned by his in¬dulgence to the clergy.ALEXANDER II.Alexander II. fon of William, fimamedthe Lion, came to the Crown at fixteen yearsof age, a fpirited, brave, and juft King. Heprotected many of the Barons of England, a-gainft the tyranny of John; purfued Johnhimfelf from the river Elk to Richmond; butJohn efcaped falling into his hands, by fettingfire to the towns through which he fled.Lewis Ion of Philip King of France, beinginvited over to England, the Barons and citi*25zens fwore fealty to him. Alexander hear¬tily efpoufed his caufe, and in his right, dif-pofTefled John of Carliile, Northumberland,and other places ; but Lewis being obligedto leave England, (owing to the Pope’s fen-tence of excommunication againft his adher¬ents,) and Henry III. John’s fon, being King,Alexander entered into an alliance with him,and married his elded fider Joan in 1221.He afterwards fubdued, and puniflied withdeath, one Gillefpy and his two fens, whohad committed terrible ravages in Murrayand burnt the town of Inyernefs.. Anotherinfur reft ion was raifed by a badard fnn ofthe laird of Galloway, but was fcon quelled,whom, Alexander, after having him in hispower, generoufly pardoned.In I235, Scotland being free from her in-tedine broils, Alexander and his Oueen vi-fited their brother Henry. During his dayin England, a difpute happened about Nor¬thumberland, 'which was fettled by Henry’sallowing 80 merks yearly in lieu of it. A-! lexander having lolt his wife when in Eng-Iland, on his return home, he married thedaughter of Eugelram de Coucy, a powerfulFrench nobleman. After this, a rupturewith England broke out, but was fettled with-2(J 'out much bloodfhed ; and in 1241 it was a-greed, that Alexander’s infant fon Ihouldmarry the daughter of Henry.Alexander, in the midll of his preparationsto fubdue the Ebrides, was feized by a feverand died much lamented, in the 5 ill year ofhis age, and 35th of his glorious reign.He was certainly a fpirited and wealthyPrince, and appears by his juftice, piety, ad-drefs and good nature, to have been greatlybeloved, not only by his own fubjedfs, butby thofe of England. He was fucceeded byhis fon.- - . %-A5, . ^MACBETH-Macbeth was coufm to Duncan I. andi had become extremely popular for his activi¬ty in crufhing an alarming rebellion, and, inconjunction with Banquo, obtaining a fignalifviCtory over the Danes; but, his natural am-libition being inflamed by predictions of his fu¬ture advancement to the throne, which theprevailing fuperftition of the day made himyield implicit credit to, he murdered theping at Invernefs, while on a yearly circuit,iffind was immediately after crowned at Scone.Ipuncan’s two fons fled, Malcolm into Eng¬land, and Donald-to the Ifles. The checks>f confcience made Macbeth, who had reign-:d for fome time with moderation, fufpiciousnd cruel. Banquo he treacheroufly mur-[ered. Macduff, thane of Fife, efcaped into.ngland, while the cruel King inhumanlyiut to death his wrife, children, and fervants.'he nobility alarmed, retired to their caftles,hilft Malcolm, by the advice of Macduff,•licked troops from Edward, and procured3d10,000 under the command of Siward, Princeof Northumberland, his grandfather ; andwith thefe he entered Scotland. Macbeth,deferted by his nobles, retired to the callle ofDunfinane ; flying from thence, he was'over-taken and killed, by the injured Macduff.