THEMASSACRE OF GLENCO.In a Letter from a Gentleman in Edinburghto his Friend in London.Giving a particular, account of that unprecedented. tranfa&ion, wherein orders were given that all the' Males of the M'Donalds in that diftrict under 7.0fhould be put to the Sword, in which 38 personswere killed in .cold blood, most of them in theirbed, 900 Cows, 200 Horfes, and a great manySheep and Goats were carried off to the Garrifoaat Iverlochy, together with the extreme mifery, anddeath, of many of the women and children, inbeing deprived of their father# and husbands, anddriven from their homes in the most inclement and“William R. As for Macklan of Glenco, aadSii < that tribe, if they can be diftinguiflied from the restc ‘ of the Highlanders, it will be proper, for the vindiwi-I* tion of publie justice, to estirpate that set of thieves.”fevere seafon of the year.14th Article of instructions, Jan. 16.169a.W. RuGLASGOW:Publiehed by J. Lumsden and Son.1819.The MASSACRE ofG L E N € 0, ^4.SIR,The Account you defired of the ftrange and fur-prifing Mafficre of Glenco, take * follows ;Mackian Mackdonald, Laird of Glenca, a branch ofthe Mackdonalds, one of the greatest Clans, or Tribes inthe north of Scotland, came with the moft considerablemen of his Clan to Colonel Hill, Governor of Fort-Wil¬liam at Inverlochy, iome few days before the expiringof the time for receiving the Indemnity appointed by“proclamation, which, as I take it, was the lit of Januarylift, intreating he would administer unto him the oathswhich the foresaid proclamation required to be taken ;that fo submitting himself to the government, he mighthave its prote&ion. The Colonel received him with allexpreffions <*f kindnefs^ neverthelefs fhifting the admtnif-tering the oaths to him ; alledging, that by the procla¬mation it did not belong to .him, but to the Sheriffs, BaU-lies of Regalities, and Magiilrsrtes of burghs, to admi-niiler them. iVIackian complained that by this disap¬pointment he might be wronged, the time being nownear the expiring, and the weather so extreme, and thgways so very bad, that it was not poffiblefor him fo foonto reach any-Sheriff,' Sic. got from Colope.l Hill, underhk hand,hisprote&ion ; and withal he was affured, that noorders from the govainment against him fhould be put inexecution until he first was advertifed and had time allow¬ed him to apply himfelf to King or council for his own fafe-ty. But the better to make all fine itho’ this might havetee-meJ security enough for that time) with all dispatch/imaginable he ported to Inverary, the chief i wn ofArgylelhire where he found Sir CoIin^Campbell of Ard-|Ictalls, Sheriff of-that shire, and craved of him thebenefit of the Indemnity, according to the proclamation,he being willing to perform all the conditions required.Sir Colin at first scrupled to admit him to the oaths, Actime which the proclamation did appoint being elapsedby one day, alledging it would be of no use to him thento take them ; but frjackian represented that it was nothis fault, he having come in time enough to Colonel Hill,not doubting but he could h*Ve administered theoaths to him, and that upon his refufal he had made such *hafte tor Inverary, that he might have come in timeenough, had not the extremity of the weather hinderedhim; and even as it was, he was but one day after thetime appointed ; and that it would be very unbecomingthe Government to take the advantage of a man’s corr^^late by one day, efpecially when he had done his utmostto have come in time. Upon this and his threatening toprotest against the Sheriff for the seveVity of this usage,Le administered to him and his attendants the oaths,Mackian depending upon the .Indemnity granted tothofe who fhould take them ; he having so done hewent home and lived quietly and peaceable undpr thegovernment till the day of his untimely death.In January lall, -§ party of the Earl , of Argyle'aRegiment came to that country; the defign of tKeircoming was then sufpected to be, to take courfe withthofe who fhould ftand out, and not submit, and takfthe oaths. The Garrifon of Glenco being thronged, andGlenco being commodipus for. quartering, as being ncisrthat Garrison* those soldiers were sent,thither to quarter,they pretended they came to exaft arrears of Cefsand Hearth Money (a tax never known in Scotland un-‘til laid on by the parliament IbfX),.after the parliamentof England had eased therofelves of it.) Before theyentered Glenco, the Laird er fons came out to meet them,and asked them if they cerne as friends or enemies ? Theofficers anfwered. As friends, and gave their parole ofhonour that fehey would do neither him i;ov his concerns anyharm; upon which he welcom’d theth, promifing themthe heft entertainment the place covdd afford. Thishe really performed, as all the foldiers confefs. He and4they lived together in mutual kindnef# and friendflup fif¬teen days, or thereabouts ; fb far was he from fearingany hurt from them. And the very laft day of his life hefpent in keeping company with the commander of thatparty, Captain Campbell of Glenlyoa, playing at Cardswith him till fix or feven at night, and at their partingmutual proteftations of.kindness were renewed. Sometime that very day, but whether before, or after theirparting, I know not, Captain Campbell had thefe ordersfent him from Major Duncanfon, a copy whereof I herefend you.Ballacholis, Feb. 12. 1692.SIR,PerSecond to "the Commander in Chief, and myColonel's orders to me, for putting in execution thefervice commanded against the Rebels in Glenco, ^here¬in you, with the party of the Earl of Argyle’s regi¬ment under yout command, are to be concerned;OU are hereby ordered to fall upon the Rebels,tne Mackdonalds of Glenco, and put all to the Swordunder feventy. You are to have fpecial care that the OldFox and his Sons do upon no account efcape your hands.You are to fecure all the avenues, that no man efcape.This you-are to put in execution at five o’Clock m theMorning precifely,"’ and by that time, or very fhortlyafter it. I’ll ftrive to be at you with a flronger party:If I do not come to you at five you are not to tarry forme, but to fall on. This is by the King’s SPECIALCOMMAND, for the good and fafety of the country,that thefe mifereants may be cut off root and branch.See that this be put in execution, without feud or favour,dse you may expect to be treated as not true to theKing or government, nor a man fit to carry a commis-fion in the King’s service. Expecting you will not failin the fulfilling hereof, as you love yourfelf, I fubscribethefe with my hand,ROBERT DUNCANSON.For their Majefty’s fervice to CaptainRobi*r.t Campbell of Glenlyon.. SIR, Ballacholis, Feb. 12. 1692.I: you are therefore forthwith to order your affairs| 'io as that the feveral ports already affigncd by you, beby you and your feveral detachments fallen in adtirvn withprecifefy by five o’Ciock to-morrow morning, being Sa¬turday ; at which time Iw ill endeavour the fame with thofeappointed from this Regiment for the other places. It. will be most necefiary you fecure thofe avenues on the) fouth fide, that th^ Old Fox nor none of his Cubs get a-|; way. The orders are, that none be fpared of the fword| from 70, nor the Government troubled with Prisoners.: This is all, until I fee you, fromYour humble Servant,| . JAMES HAMILTON.; r,j Pleafe to ^rder a guard to fecure the Ferry, and thek Boats there ; and the boats must be all on this fide the.; Ferry after your men are over.! For their Majesties Service, for Major RobertDuncanfon oi the Earl of Argyle’s Regiment. .| T HE Soldiers being difpofed five or three in a houfe,1 according to the number of the family they werei to affafiinate, had their orders given them fecretly. They! had been all received as friends by thofe poor people,i who intended no -evil themfelves, little fufpec$ed thqttheir gnefts were defigned to be their murderers. At five; o’Ciock in the morning they began their bloody wOrk,furprised and butchered thirty eight persons, who hada kindly received- them under their roofs. Mackian him-3 felf was murdered, and is much bemoaned ; he was a1 rtately well-favoured man, and of good courage andfenfe; As alfo the Laird of ArchintrIJcin, a gentleman of| more than ordinary judgement and understanding, who hadfnbmiued to the government, and had Col. Hill’s protec-f tiou in his pockety which he had got three months be-Jote. I cannot without horror reprefent how that a boy'Shout eight years of age was murdered ; he seeing whatWas done to others in the houfe with him, in’a terriblefright ran out of the houfe, and efpying Capt. Campbell,1 grafped him about the legs, crying for mercy, and ofFer-sng to be his femnt all his life. I am informed Capt.' 9Campbell Inclined to fpnre him ; but one Drnnamond, anrfficer, barbaroufly ran bis dagger through him, where¬of he died immediately. The rehearfal of feveral particu¬lars and cirtu,m(lances of this tragical £ory, makes it ap¬pear most'doleful'i as that Mackian was killed as he wasdrawing on his breeches, Handing before his bed, andgiving orders to'his fervants for the good entertainmentof thoie who hmvrdered him ; while he was fpeaking thewords, he was fhot through the head, and fell dead inl is lady’s arms,'who through the grief of this and otherbad usages fne met with, died next day. It is not to beoreb'ed that malt of those poor people were killed whenthey were aflecp, and none' were allowed to pray to Godfor mercy. Providence ordered it fo that.-that riight wasnod L jiflerous; fo as a party-of four Jiundred men, whofhould have come to the other end of the glen, and begunthedike work there at the fame hour (intending that theinhabitants’ should be enclofed, and none of them1efcape) could not march that length, until it was nineo’Ciock, and this afforded to many an opportunity ofefcaping, arid none were killed but thole in whofe housesCampbell of Glenlyon’s men were quartered, otherwiseall the males under seventy years of age, to the numberof two hundred, bad been cut off, for that was theorder ; and it might have been eafilyffcecuted,efpeciallyconfide’, in., that the inhabitants had no arms at that time ;f up.-n the hr t hearing that the feddiers were comingL', ’ he gler, .‘hey had conveyed them all out of the way.For tho’ they relied on the promifes which were madethem for their Safety ; yet they thought it not improba- ,ble chat thqy might be 'difarmed. 1 know not whetherto i/oputc ft to difficulty in diftinguilhing the difference- i a few v ar.-, or to the fury of the soldiers, who being•; glutted with blood, ftand at nothing, that even feme' c Seventy years of age were deftroyed. They setid the houfesoa fire, drove off all the cattle to the Gar-_.tcj of J-’verlochy, viz. 900 Cows, 200 Horfes, anda great many Sheep and Goats, and there they were di-fj'videdNamongst the officers. And how difmal may youii magine the cafe of the poor women and children wa*1'ihfn ! It was lamentable past exprefiion : tlieir huttbantjsand fathers and near relations were forced to flee for theirlives j they themfelves almost ftript ^nd nothing leftthem, and their houfes being bmVU, and not one house| lierrer thau fix miles ; and to get thither they were to pafsj oyer mountains, and wreaths of snow, in a vehement! ftolm, wherein the mod part of themperifhed throughhun-i ger and cold It fills me with horror to think of pooritript. children and W'omen, sdme with child and somegiving sppk, wrelllingagainst a tiorm, in mountains andheaps of fnow, and at length to be overcome, and givej over, and fall down, and die miferable. .I You foe in Hamilton’s order to Huncanfon, there is afpecial caution, That the Old Fox nor none of his Cubs(hot)Id efcape; and in Duncanfon’s order to Cspt.Campbell of Glenlyon, That the old Fox nor none ofhis fotw efcape; but notv/ithftanding all this, wickedcaution, it pleafed God that the two young gentlemen,i, Mackian’s Tons escaped. For it happened that theI younger of these gentlemen trufted little to the fairpromifes of Campbell and had a more watchful eye over! him than his father or brother, who fuffered themselves,by his reiterated oaths, to be deluded into a beliefof his integrity : he having a ftrong imprefl^on onhis fpirit that some mifehievous deiign was hidden underCampbell’s fpecTous pretences, it made him, after the restwere in bed, remain in a retired corner, where he had"ti an advantageous prospect into their guard. About mid-i night perceiving feveral fiydierg to enter it, this increafedj his jealousy ; fo he went and communicated his fears to his: brother, who could not for a long time be perfuaded therewas any bad defr^n againfl them, and aflerted. That what; he had feen was not a doubling their guards in order• to any ill defign, but that being in a (Irange place, and! at a distance from the Garrifon, they were tolepd out Ccn-tincls far from the guard, and becaufe of the extremityof the weather relieved them often, and that the men hefaw could be no more than thefe. Yet he perfifting to1 ^y, That they were not so fecure, but that it was fit toacquaint their father with what he'had feen, heprevailed with his brother to rife, and go with 1dm to8his fattier who lay in a room contiguous to that theywere in. Tho’ what the -younger fon alledged made nogryat impreffion on his lather, yet hsallowed his fons to trywhat they gould difcover. 1 hey well knowing all skulk- Jing places there, went and hid themselves wear to a jcentinel's poft, where inftead of one, they difcovered j-eight or ten men, this made them more inquifitive, fo jthey crept as near as they could without being difcovered,do ntar that they could hearone fay to his fellows, thathe liked not this work, and that had he known of it, hewould have been very .unwilling to have come there ;but that none except their commanders knew of it till jwithin a quarter of an hour. The soldier added, thathe was willing to fight against the men of the Glen, butit was bafe to murder them. But to all this was anfwer-ed, All the blame be on fuch as give the-orders; we arefree, being bound to obey our officers. Upon heariug ofthele words the young gentlemen retired as quickly andas quietly as they could towards the houfe to informtheir father of what they had heard ; but as they camenigh to it they perceived it surrounded, and heard gunsdischarged, and the people (bricking whereupon beingunarmed and totally unable to refcue their- father,they preferred their own lives in hopes yet to ferve theirking and country, and to fee justice dom^upon those hellhoainds, treacherous murderers, the ihame of-their coun¬try, and disgrace to mankind.I must not forget to tell you, That there were two ofthefe Officers who had given (heir Parole of honour to ;Mack Ian, who refufed to be concerned in that bn saltragedy, for which they wer^fent prifoners to Glafgow,where, if they remain not ftih, I am fure they were form?weeks ago, but as yet I have not learned their fate.SIR,Your humble Servant, &c.F‘I N I S.printed ~by 'J. NeihotU ‘ lJ