A Groat's worth of WitFOR APENNY:OH, THEINTERPRETATIONOFDreams, Moles, %c.EDINBURGH :I iintcd for the Doot:sellers in Tov. n aiid Country.GROAT’S WORTH OF WIT,FOR AFENNY.How a man or maid shall know thedream, whether they shall have thethey love, or not.If a maid loves a man, and dreanlshe is going to church with anotheman, and that she runs from him s!will assuredly have the man she d>sireth: but if she dream she goetinto church with the other man, siwill not have the man she loveth.the man dreams any thing which 1.is assured is like the aforesaid, it d*notes the like fortune as to a w<man.sThe Signification of MOLES.If a man has a mole opposite theleart, it shews him vicious ; if a wo-•nan, it shews the same. If a manims a mole on the neck, it signifies heIshali become very rich ; if a woman;.he same. If a man has a mole be-iiincl the neck, it demonstrates hehall be beheaded, except God, throughearnest prayers, prevent the same.:f a man or woman have a mole oncither lip, it denotes gluttony. Ainole on a man’s chin denotes he shallte rich in money and possessions:die woman having a mole on the same•lace demonstrates she will have thei ke success, and that she hath like¬wise a mole opposite the melt or spleen ;p a man hath a more on the ears, itihews he shall be rich and very mucheverenced and well spoken of; the likep a woman ; if a woman or a .manave a mole on the loins it denotes a? eak and poor kindred, as well as verymeat want; if a mole be seen on both4the shoulders of a man,' let him 1ware of imprisonment; if a man hasmole on the throat, it shews he shmarry a rich and beautiful woman ;a woman has one on the same pla*it shews she shall marry a wealthy acomely man ; if a mole appear on thand of either man or woman, it shejprosperity and enjoyment of childreif a man or woman have a mole on tbreast, it shews much loss and povity ; if either man or woman havemole on the bottom of the belly,argues weakness, sickness, and sorroif a mole in either man or womannear the private parts, it shewsspeakable covetousness ; if a wohas a mole on the right knee, it sheher honest and virtuous ; if on the 1knee, she will have many children ;mole on the ancle of a man, shewsshall take on him the v/oman’s pa .a woman with one on the same plashows that she will be desirous to ntaking the maids part;, if either s.51ilhat they shall travel into strangecountries, and a mole on the right side>f either sex, signifies honesty andriches: but on the lei’t side to be sur¬rounded with dire calamities : if afian have a mole on his forehead, it(shews he shall possess much wealth bymeans of his wife; a woman having ahiole on the forehead is born either|o govern,- or come to high dignity ;f a man has a mole on the eve-brow,|et him retrain from marriage : for if heijnarries he shall have seven wives inhis life-time ; a won#n having a molelin the same place stands fair to haveis many husban.ds : if a man hath apole on his nose, somewhat of a ruddyfolour, it denotes him a person overmuch given to the venereal act; if awoman have a mole on the nether jaw,rlhe will lead her life in much sorrowknd pain of body, because she has thatwithin her which hinders her fromfearing children ; If a man have theijbrm of a mole oh his tongue, it shewsj»e shall wed a iich and virtuous wo-fnan.is0The Signification of Dreams*if you dream of men with billWords, or writings in their hands, thvbeware of being arrested the day f<lowing.——If you dream of a snalor a serpent, and they come near -hurt you, then look well to yoursefor there are private enemies seekirto destroy both you and yours.—1dream you reach the top of a hishows you will next day put an endsome alFair of consequence ; but if ycfail before you reach the top, it s'-cwyour suit will be lost If you drea,,of troubled water, and that you fall ito it. you may expect to hear bad ne\the next day If you dream ycoutrun a hare, then you shall recer% *a letter or letters the next day.—If you dream you are beshitten, anare not, then you will have good fctune in all your business the next da   If you dream of eggs that abroken, there was much mischief pcA.I , 7tending towards you, but it is past andgone. If a woman dreams of eggsthat are whole, she and her neigbourstwill have a sad bout of scolding the.next day. If a man dream that heis lying with his neighbour’s wife, and[is not, then the devil is using his bestendeavours to rob'ought not to lose.him of what he-If a man that isrborn under the planet Mars, sees twoor three moons at once in his dream,then let him expect to hear strangenews from the great ones—It is goodto dream of gold, but bad to dream ofismall pieces of silver—If you dreamyour friends are dead, it signifies theytare well—if a man or woman dream ofa black coffin it denotes some kindrediof theirs is dead. It is bad to dreamiK)f birds or cackling hens, but verygood to dream of corn and bread—Itis good for a man to dream of his goingDr climbing up any place, but bad toreapa of falling down any place.u8Of the Fortunes and Destinies of personborn under the Twelve Signs, accordingto Ptolemeus.1To know what planet a person ijborn under, it is necessary to observthat there are seven planets, which arattributed to the seven days of thweek ; each day hath its name ofplanet: Sol shews Sunday, being thmost worthy, and so takes the worthiesday. Luna governs the first hour oMonday, Mars the first on TuesdayMercury on Wednesday, Jupiter oThursday, Venus on Friday, and Sa-urn on Saturday. The natural dahath twenty-four hours, and each s«veral hour reigns a planet. It is tbe understood that, when you begito reckon on Sunday, you must re»kon thus, Sol, Venus, Mercuryf LunSaturn, Jupiter, and Mars, and whentlnumber is on, you-must then begin wilthe hour in which you would know wh;9jiplanet reigneth. On Monday we mustibegin at Luna, on Tuesday at Mars,[Wednesday at Mercury, Thursday atJupiter, Friday at Venus, and Satur¬day at Saturn.ji' Thus, when the number of the planetsis past,- you must begin in order as a-foresaid. At one o’clock on Sundayimorning reigneth Sol ; at two Venus,and so by order in every hour. Whena child is born, it is to be known atwhat hour, in the beginning, in themidst, or at the end; if it be in thebeginning he shall hold of the same,iand of the other before ; if in the midst,iit shall hold of the same, and of the nextafter : nevertheless, the planet which he-is born under shall notruleovertheother,land that of the day shall have the(most predomination, which is the causethe child holds divers planets, and hasseveral conditions.; He that is born under the Sun willIae prudent, wise, and eloquent. Thosetvho are born under Venus are beloved)f every man, and they shall bear aj’ule. They who are born under Mer-10cury, are not the most prudent. The;who are born under Luna, generall;have high foreheads, ruddy, merry vis£iged, shame-faced, and very religiousThey who are born under Jupiter, arhardy, fair visaged, ruddy, chaste, amvagabonds. They who are born undeMars, are great speakers, liars, thievesand deceivers, and are generally verbig, and odd of colour.The Birth of Children and other Evcnh'with respect to the Moons Age, and theDay of the JVeek,1st.To be born the first day of the nevmoon, portends their life shall be pleasant, with an increase of riches.‘2nd.A child born on the second da;will grow apace, and be inclined to lustof either sex. It is lucky on this da;to send messages of trade by land, amsow seed.3d.A child born on the third day wil11be short lived. Never begin any workof moment on this day. Thefts com-mitted on this day will soon be d iscovered.Ath.The fourth day is had. Personsfalling sick on this day rarely recover,ahd the dreams will have no effect*5th.The fifth day is favourable to begina good work, and the dreams will betolerably successful; the child born onthat day will he deceitful and proud*(Ath.The sixth day the dream wall notimmediately come to pass; and thechild born will not live lono%7th.The seventh. Do not tell yourdream on this day, for much dependson concealing them ; if sickness befslsyou on this day, you will soon recover jthe child born will live long, and havemany troubles.Hth.The eighth day, the dream wall cometo pass, and is a very prosperous dav§th.'The ninth day differs very littlefrom the former ; the child born thisday, will arrive at great riches andhonour.\Oth.The tenth day is likely to be fatal:those who fall sick will very rarely re-icover, hut the child born, on this day,will live long and be a great traveller.11^.The eleventh is a day to be married,or commence a journey. A child hornat this age of the moon will he healthy,handsome, and of a good constitution,with a particular mole on its forehead.If a female, will be remarkable lor wis¬dom.12/A.On the twelfth day, the child hornwill meet every affection, but be of ahad temper. This is a very unluckyday, particularly to those falling sick.13/A.A child horn on the thirteenth daywill be unfortunate, both in tempe?I ' 13| and estate ; though a good day for: marriages, or to find things which havebeen lost. Persons imprisoned on this[ day will soon have their liberty.Uth.A child whose nativity is on thei' fourteenth day, will die as a traitor.I An excellent day to ask a favour. Takephysic this day.15th.The fifteenth day is very unfortunate.A good day to find anything that is lost.\Qth.The child born on the sixteenth day,| will be unmanneredly and unfortunate.Buy and sell on this day. Dreams por¬tend luck on this day.: nth.The seventeenth of the moon, a. child to be born on, shews it will beI foolish. You may take physic, letblood, or contract business on this day.18/A.The eighteenth day is fortunate,both for male and female horn on it.1419th.A nativity on the nineteenth day,the child will be wise and virtuous,and will arrive at great honours.‘>OM.Your dreasns portend gocid on thetwentieth dav of the moon, though achild on that day will be dishonest.\ vL2 1 'it.A child born on the twenty-first daywill he of so unhappy a disposition, thatlet him look to the sword of justice,perhaps, “ black with murder, sacri*lege, and crimes.” An unhappy fatal¬ity attends this day.Ulnd.On the twenty-second day, the childthat is born, will purchase a good es¬tate, he will he handsome, religious,and well beloved. This is a good dayto remove bees.23r/.On the twenty-third day, the childthat is born, will he of an ungoverna¬ble temper, a great traveller, but diemiserable. Good day to be married,or commence business.24M.On the twenty-fourth day, the childborn, will achieve many heroic actions.9.5 th.The child born on the twenty-fifthday, will be very wicked, and meetwith many dangers, it is a very un¬fortunate day, and threatens vexation.96th.On the twenty-sixth day, the child,born, shall be very amiable ; if a male,will meet but an indifferent state inthe world ; if a female, she w ill be mar¬ried to a rich man for her beauty.97th.On the twenty-seventh day, a childborn on this day will have every en¬gaging quality, but will not rise to anygreat preferment. This is a very luc¬ky day.96 th.On the twenty-eighth day, the childthat is born shall be the delight of hisparents, but have much sickness.9Qth.On the twenty-ninth day, the child16then born shall be blessed with longlife, and attain an eminent degree ofholiness and virtue. A good day formarrying.SOth.A child born on the thirtieth, willbe fortunate and happy. This dayequally as the last.The child born on a Sunday, shallbe of a long life, and obtain riches.On Monday. Weak, of an eftem-inate temper, which seldom brings aman of honour.On Tuesday. The person born will besubject to violent starts of passion, noteasily reconciled; and if a man, givento illicit connections, which cause mis-fortunesto rise; and he will be in dangerof dying by violence from them. 5On Wednesday. Shall be given tolearning and profit thereby.On Thursday. He shall arrive togreat honour and riches.On Friday. He shall be of a strongconstitution, and perhaps lecherous.On Saturday. This day is a bad17day, though the child may com£ togood. They are of a clogged dispo¬sition.i Of the four elements, and of the fourcomplexions of men.These lour are the elements.Air, Earth, Fire, and Water.The twenty-four hours of the day andnight rule sanguine, cholerick, melan¬choly and phlegm, according to Ptole-meus.How a man may know whether himself orfriend maxing sick, shall live or die.The 6th and 16th day of March, shaltthou draw blood out of thy right arm.’The 11th of April out of thy left arm.In the end of April out of which armthou wilt, and especially against a fe¬ver, and if thou dost, neither shalt thoulose thy sight, nor shalt thou have afever so long as you live. And who¬soever on the 7th March is let bloodin the right arm, and on the 10th ofApril in the left, shall recover—On the18' i4th and last days of May, if let blooclin both arms, no fever shall ensue.Whosoever, on the first day of themonth falls into anv infirmity, is indanger the three ensuing days, whichpass’d he shall escape thirty-six days—Whosoever falls sick the second day,though he he long sick, yet he shallrecover. He that falls sick the thirdwill recover next change. If on the4th, if he survives the 20th he shallescape, If the 5th, though he suffergrievously, he shall recover. If hefall sick on the 6th, though he seemto be healed, yet on the 15th of thenext month he shall be dead. Hethat falleth sick on the 7th, if he benot well the 12th he will not recover.If on the 8th,'the 9th, or the 10th, heshall be delivered with difficulty thenext day. He that’s sick on the 11thday, except he be delivered in two days,will die on the 15th. He that takessick on the 12th or 13th day untilthe 18th (’ay he shall be sick, if hepass which he will recover. He that39falls sick the 14th day., will recover onthe next. He that falls sick on the15th day, except he recover within15 days he shall die. He that failssick on the 16th day, shall not recov-er. He that waxeth sick on the 17thday, though he lie ill twenty-four days,on the twenty-eighth he shall be vv.ell.He that fails sick on the 18th day,shall die by the 19th of next month.He that falls sick on the i9th, shallsoon recover. He that waxeth sickon the 90th shall likely escape. Hethat waxeth sick on the 21st, in fivedays shall be wTell. He that waxethsick on the 22nd, or 25d days, shallbe. delivered within ten days. He thatfalleth sick the 24th day. though it bewuth grievousness or pain, in anothermonth he shall he delivered. He thatfalleth sick on the twenty-fifth day, onthe 17th he shall recover ; vet neverthe-Ktless lie shall die*in the next month.He that falls sick on the 26th, thoughhe suffer a little, yet will escape. Hethat waxeth sick on the 27th day,, 20though he suffer the remainder of thelmonth, yet in the next he shall be de-jJivered. He that falls sick on the 28thruns great hazard of death ; as also on Ithe 29th. He that sickens on the SOtii,shall recover; but if on the 31st it isdoubtful.A Night Spell to catch Thieves.The following will drive away anyevil spirit that haunts houses or otherplaces; and having it about you, nothief can harm you; but if he comesto rob a garden, orchard, or a house,he cannot go till the sun rises. Youmust have in the four corners of thehouse this sentence written upon finetrue virgin parchment.Omnes Spiritus lancet DominumMosem habe,^Prophetas exerget Deus, dissipariinter inimicos.But if for a garden or orchard, it mustbe placed at "the four corners thereof;and if to keep one from being robbed21on the road, to have it always abouthim, cmd fear God,If your spell be set in the hour ofMar's, which you may know by thisbook, you may be assured of success,in your endeavours to catch a thief.elf any think there is a harm in it,let him not use it; for my part I canfiiM none.He that covets the love of a woman,must court her in the hour of Venus,and he will gain more love than at anyother hour.Of the Head.I warn you to beware of, personswho want or have any default of theirmembers ; or have the and of aman that has no beard, for such areinclined to divers vices and evils, andone should eschew his company as anenemy.Plain hair signifies a person piteousand debonair.* Kf-puiaHy of women wto Slave- these badqnnlinr*.22They that have red hair are com-Vmr.'dy ireful, and lack wit, and are oflittle truth.Black hair is a good colour, and sig- rniP.es the love of justice; and if it be i;hard it shews the person loves concord, iand is of a good and subtile wit.A man with black hair, and a redbeard, has the signs of lechery and ofjustice.Black hair and crisp shews melan¬choly and lechery.4.Hanging hair shews malice.Great plenty of hair on a womanshews covetousness.A person with great eyes is sloth¬ful, obedient, and desirous to knowmore than he doth ; but when youreyes-are not too big nor too small, itshews they are strong, and of a goodand courteous behaviour.Of the .Forehead.The forehead smooth, a flatterer, ap¬plied to the fawning dog. The fore¬head big and wrinkled, hold and appliedto the lion. A high forehead, liberal,applied to the lion. An over-wri aided23ibrehead, void of bash fulness ; if theforehead be very big, slow and appliedto .the ox. If round to be dull of ap¬prehension, and applied to the as^. Idlit is plain it is circumspect, and ap¬plied to the ass, or the dog A squareformed forehead, hold and applied tothe lion.The Eyes.The eyes small shew shame faced-ness; how much bigger the eyes so1 the less malice but the more folly.| The eyes large, standing out, foolish,;i| fearfuf, and immodest. Eyes disor-i derly roving too rash and unquiet inmind. The eye-lid quavering, fearful.) The eye moving swiftly, with a sharp-.I ish look, fraudulent, unfaithful, and athief. The eye stedfastly looking,troubled in mind, and a deceiver. Theeye very wide open, extremely impru¬dent.The Nose.The nose round, with a sharpness atthe end, wavering of mind. The nosecrooked like the eagle’s bill, too bold.24The nose flat, lecherous and full of pas¬sion. The nose large at the end, de¬sirous of what they see. The end ofthe nose sharp, fierce, and full of words,as a sword, a rolling eye, a smilingcountenance, and a scarlet nose, asright a lusty Roger, an artist of theschool of Venus, and a lover of the fe¬male sex.?CONCLUSION.I wish good trading and good healthTo all, where’er you dwell;Much honor aye and much good wealthTo all who wish us well.Let no distractions now abound,Nor whig nor tory longer grumble ;But let the glass go "cheerful round ;Yet for their sins let all be humble.'F IN I s.