THEDEAD MAN S’sRESURRECTION;OR, THEJUDGE- ■ - * l - % V"- ♦ . ABuried alive in his owni Cellar.ife' ,,To which is Added,«s - »DEATH AND THE COBLER.ABERDEEN:l» ' iPrinted by A. Imlay, No. 3. George Street*• \ IThe DEAL MAWS RESURRECTION, l£c\ONE of tlie Judges in King Charles Ereign, being, in the long vacation, ihis coun‘r)'-houie in Holfworth in Suffol!happened, upon • too ferious reflection xfome juvenile mifcarriages, to fall into-deep lit of the hypocondria, mfomuch tlihe fancied himfelf to be dead, and was; ;very obftinate under the influence of 1whimlical diitemper that he would not 1-perliiaded to itir hand or foot, or recei fany manner of fuftenance, but what wforced dov/n his throat by fyrenges, or fulike ftratagems, till he . had brought his tdy into fo low a condition, that had a liglled candle been in his bellj, his fldes woe ihave proved as tranfparant as a lanthor'jIn this Itubbom phrenzy he lay upon ‘ «back, ftrdtched out at full length likecorp, and as motionlefs as a itone figure u ion an old tomb, neither his phyfician ihis. family knowing what to do with him* tA famous High German doctor coming;litnto the town, attended with a pack of foolsij and rope-dancets, in order to pick the coun-i;try people’s pockets of a little money, hear¬ing of fo eminent ar perfon under this un~raccountable difpofition, took an occafionlithe firft time that lie , mounted his public! theatre, to mention this matter to his coun¬try chubs, who were giving great attentionto all the lies he could mufter up to his(advantage, telling them: “ Their countryHphyfxians -were all fools, and that the judge■ |was only troubled with the muligrubs, andI that if his lady would’ fend for him, heicwould undertake to bring him to fpeech,:i)fet him upon his legs, make him walk, talk,feat, drink, pifs, flute, or do any thing inI’four and twenty hours time, or elfe he w7oulddeflre nothing for his trouble,”' This largepromife of the mountebank was foon com- ,municated to the judge’s lady, who being atender wife to her hulband, and willing totry every thing that might do him good,fent immediately for the Dutch tooth-draw¬er, to confult him about the matter; whojtold her pofitively, “ He could loon cure(him, if flic would promife he Ihould have a((hundred guineas reward, provided had(leave, without interruption, to do as rejfliould think fit.” The lady aflured him,“ He Ihould have all the liberty he defiredto work the cure, and the reward he alked( 4)when be had performed it,” Both partiesbeii'g. agreed, the doctor fent his man for ajoiner and a coffin, as foon as the one; hadbrought the other, up hairs they went, forthe doctor would not fee his patient beforehe had got his tools ready. When everything was in order, in goes the doctor andthe Ja'dy, the reft tarried without till calledfor.No fooncr had the doctor caft an eye up¬on his fallen patient, but he presently callsout to the lady, “ Lord, Madam, what meanyou to fend for a phyfician to a dead man ?,For lhame. keep him not above ground anylonger. Upon my word, madam, he hasbeen dead fo long, that he ftinks again, andif you don’t bury him quickly, the veryfcent of his corps will breed a plague inc om: family “ I hrwe had a coffin in thehome feme time, replied the lady, but wasloth to have him buried fo loon, for fear hefhculd come to. life again.” “ By all means,lays the doctor, let it. be brought in, andojder him fo be nailed up with all expe¬dition.” “ Pray doflor, fays the lady, doyou ftay-a little in the room for fear the.Irats iliould giikw the corps, and I’ll ftepand oi lei fome of my iervants to bring injthe coffip prefently.” The patient hard all]thf and was llill too humourfome to .break!Ifts idynce; by gad by comes the lady, andc<5)the fervaiR after with the cofTm, who fet itli down by the bed fide, and then accordingf to the doctor’s direction, wrapt the judgeup in'a couple of warm blankets, and intothe coffin they >ery orderly laid him, put on: the lid, and made a hammering over hinhead as if they were nailing him up, he en-i dured it all without either word or motion^and when he was thus inclofed, they order-ii-ed the great bell of the church to ring out,(that he might think they Were bearing him to|•his la& home the grave : inftead of which they|i; carried him down into his own wine cellar,I where they fet fdme body to watdh by himI till a good fupper was got ready; in the in-l terirrl the doctor, ordered his lady and heril fcrvants fo to dilguife themfelves in winding!i fiieets, and fuch like drefles, that would befi:i rcprefent a parcel of ghofis or fpirits, thei dodor making one amongft them; wheni they were thus equipped, the doctor led thef van of the hobgoblins, and into tbe cellar■ they event, where ft ey altered their voicesms much as poffibie, and fell into a merryI extravagant chat, concerning the affairs pfthe upper world, rattling the bottles andthe glalfes, extolling their happinefs afterlideath, and dripking to the remembrance ofI thole friends they had left behind, the clothbeing laid, in a little time down came fup¬per, w hich they.feH to with all the feemingjollity imaginable.As they were thus merry eating and ca-rouiing, “ What’s the matter fays the doc¬tor, with that melancholy ghoft, that hedoes not rife out of his coffin? He has beenamong us this fortnight, and has not yetgiven us any of his company: fure he isfadly tired with his journey out of the other !world, for he has had a plaguy long deep |lafter it: Prithee awake him, and'afc him to Ieat a bit with us, fo«» he has had no refrelh- Iment lince he has been in the Elizium ;” IWith tliat one of the moil frightful of the Ifpedtres with a taper in his hand, opens the j. lid«f the coffin, and hollowing in his ears,“ mag damnum haggle duggle, deputy go¬vernor of the lower regions, delires yourcompany to fupper with him.” Upon whichhe raifed his head to the edge of the coffin,and beholding inch a parcel of frightfulfigures feeding as heartily as fo many plough¬men ; “ Pray, fays he, do dead men eat ?Aye, aye, and drink too, fays the dodor, orhow ffiould they live ^Ife ?” “ Then faysthe judge, if eating be to cuftom of thiscountry, I will make my refurredion andpick a-bit wifli you.”- So they lent him ahand, and conduded him to a feat at thetable. “ Truly, fays he, I am very glad to afind that dead men live fo merrily Well jjmay we be fo merry, cries the dodor, foOTjwe live, better here without money, thanone in the other world can for a thoufandt?;- . , ■ ;(7)• pound a-year; for in Ihort we have everything, and that' for nothing.” The judge 'who was a great lover of a little Ihoulder of' mutton, which his lady remembering, h adgot one ready at the Jire, alked them, “ Ifthat country afforded any .gnutton ?” Thebefl, replies the dodlor, in all the three,worlds: Here fetch a hot fhoulder imme¬diately : at which unexpedled fight the- judge was fo well pleafed, that he fell toand^eat heartily.When fupper was over they dranfe acheafful glafs to the memory of all theirI particular friends over their heads, till atlaft the patient (being much fuddied, fothat they turned him again into his wood¬en territories, where he foon fell into avery found deep; . during yvhich time theycarried him up into his own room, and puthim again to his bed, where he relied verywell, and his lady with him, till the nextmorning about day light; and at laft wak¬ing, > he -began to look about him, veryftrangely furprifed, which the lady perceiv-■ ing, cried, “ Prithee, my, dear, what’s thematter with thee ?” “ Lord love, fays he,art thou there? “ Where are we ?” “ In 'your own bed, in your own houfe, Wheredo you think we fhould be ?” Then, faysvthe judge, I have had one of the unac-courftableft dreams that ever was heatd of;1* 'and falls to repeating all he had feen overnight. ‘V’Poh, poh, fays die, never 5 mindfuch idle whimffes, and thihk what youcan eat for hreakfaft.” So up got my lady,and provided him fomething that was com¬fortable, and from that time he was re- 1covered of his melancholy, fo the mounte- 1bank had his reward, and the judge fat uponthe bench for feveral years after.IR.eafon's quite loji where melancholy rules.The wifejl men we fee are fometimes fools.DHATH and the C03LER-DEATH at a cobler’s door oft made aHand,And always found him on the mendinghand;At laft came death, in very dirty Weather,And rip’d the foie from off the upper-lea¬ther.Death put a trick upon him, and whatwas’t ?The cobler call’d for’s awl, death broughthis lad..4. Inlay, Printer, Aberdeen,