[!!fll11[lli11u[<*r11r11[llTWENTYRemarkable Pafla2.es♦ cT_jIN THElife and propheciesOFMr. Alexander Peden,Late Minifter of the G fpel at New Geenluce,in* Galloway,And his Remarkable LetterTo the Prifoners in Dunnotar-Castle,July i68j.. F A L K T R K rPRINTED BY T JOHNSTON:I815.245*»]1]Ij,11 Jl. II ,IUI]THELIFE AND PROPHESIESOTALEXANDER PE DEN.-COOOOO ^OOOOOQ—Mr.Alexander Peden was born inthe parish of Sorn, in the Sherift'dom ofAir. After that he pa ft his courfe at theCollege, he was employed for fome timeto be School-mafter, Prefcenter and Sef-lion-clerk to Mr. John Guthrie, minillerof the Gofpc-Lat Tarbolton,i. When he was about to enter on the•Miniftry, a young woman fell with child,in adultery, to a fervant in the houfe wfter$he Hayed ; when sh. found herfelf to be fo,she told the father thereof, who faid, t 11run for it, and go to Ireland, father it upon-Mr. Peden, he has more to help you to,bring it up (he having a fmall heritage)than I have. The fame day that he wasto get his licence, she came in before thePrelbytery and faid,' I hes* you are goingto licence Mr. Peden to be a Minifter;but do*it not, for I am with child to him.He being with ut at the time, was called inby the Moderator; and being quellionedabout if, he ft d, I am furprifed, I cannotibeak! but let none entertain an ill thought( 3 )of me, for I am utterly free of it, and Godwill vindicate me in his own time and way.He went home, and walked at a water-fideupwards of 24 hours, and would neithereat nor drink, but faid, I have got what Iwas feeking, and I will be vindicated; andthat poor unhappy lafs will pay dear for itin her life, and .will make a difmal end!Ana for this forfeit of grief that she hathgiven me, there shall never one of her fexc«me into my bofom. And, accordingly,he never married.—There are various re¬ports of the way that he was vindicated :Some fay. the time she was in child-birth,Mr. Guthrie charged her to give accountwho was the father of that child ; and dif-charged the women to be helpful to her,until she did it.— Some fay, that she con-felled ; others, that she refrained obflinate.Seme of the people, r.hen I made enquiryabout it in that country-ude, affirmed, thatafter the Prefbytery had been at all painsabout it, ard could get *0 fatisfidliun. theyappointed-Mr.‘Guthrie to give a full iela-tioii* ot tire whole before the congregation,which he did ; and the fame day the fatherof the child being p efent, when he heardMr. Guthrie -begin to read, he flood up,and defirtd him to halt, and faid. “ I am“ the father of that child ; and I defired her“ ^ father it on Mr. Pedsn, w! iah has baen‘‘ a great trouble of conlciet;i;e to me ; ajid( 4 )“ and I could no: get reft till I came home“ to declare it.” However, it is certain,that after she was married, every thingwent crofs with them, and they went fromplace to place,. md were reduced to greatpoverty. \t laft she came to that famefpot of ground where he ftayed upwardsof 24hours, and made away with herfelf.2 • After this, he was three years fettledMinifler at New .Glenlnce in Galloway ;and when he was obliged, by the violenceand tyranny of that time, to leave thatparish, he leftured upon A6fs xx.'i7. tothe end; and preached upon Verfe 31ft.in the forenoon, “ Therefore watch, and“remember, that for the fpace of three“ years, I ceafed not to warn every one,“ night and day, with tears.” —Averting, ■that'he had declared the whole ccunfel ofGod, and had kept nothing back; and pro-tefted that he v §s free oi the blood of allfouls. And, in the afternoon, he preachedon the 32d verfe, “ And now, brethren,“ I commend you to God, $nd to the word“ of his grace, w hich is sble to build you up,“ and to give you an inheritance among“ all them that are fan.&ified ” Which wasa weeping day in that Kirk; the greateftpart could not contain themfelvcs, he manytimes requefted them to be filent; bu* theyfcrrowed moft of all, when he told them,.( 5 )that they should never fee his face in thatpulpit again. — He continued until night;and when he clofed the pulpit-door, heIcnocked hard upon it three times with hisBible, faying three times over, I arreft inmy Maher’s name, that never one enterthere, but fuch as come in by the door, asI did. Accordingly, neither Curate norIndulged Minifter never entered that pulpit*until after the Revolution, that a Prtiby-tenan Miniller opened it.I had this account from old perfons inthat parish, who were witnefles to it, andworthy ol all credit.3. Atter this he joined with that honednnd zealous handful in the year 1666, thatwas broken at Pentland-hills, and camethe length of Clyde with them, where hehad a melancholy view of their end, andparted with them there. James Cubfon,of Paluchbeauties, my informer, to whotnhe told this, he faid to him, “ Sir, you o^l“ well that parted with them, feeing you“ was perfuaded they would fall and flee** before the enemy.—Glory,'glory to God.l* that he fent me not to hell immediately l“ for I should have llayed with them, tho’*l I should have been cut all in pieces.”4. That night the Lord’s people fell,and fled before the enemy at PentlarcI( 6 )■hills, he was hi a friend’s houfe in Garrick,fixty’miles from Edinburgh'; his landlordfeeing him mightily troubled, enquired howit w*s with him ? Me frid, 11 Tomorrow I“ will fpeak with you and defired himto bring a candle. That night he wmtto bed.; the next morning calling earlyto his landlord, faid, “ l have fad news totell you, our friends.that were together'k in arms, appearing for Chrill’s intereft,“ are now broken, killed, taken, and lied“ every nian.” — He Hid, “ Why t o j ou“ fpeak fo ? There is a great part of-our“ triend: prif-mers in f'dinc urgh.”—About48 hours thereafter, they were fully con-firmed In the truth of it.5. ArrtR this, in June 16-^3, he wastaken by Major Cockburn, in the houfe ofIvnockdow, in Carri k, who con ft- • ined■ him to tarry all night. Mr. Pcden to'd1 41, that it would be a dear night's quar¬ters to them both. Accordingly they wereboth carried prifoners to Edinburgh.—Hugh Fergufc}n was fintd in a thoufandmerles, for refeting, harbouring, and con¬versing with him The Council ordered50 pounds Her ling to be paid to the Majorout of the fnies, and ordained him to divide25 pounds fierling among the party thatapprehended him. Some time after exa-■jr.inction, he wars fent prjlcncr to the Br.fs,( 7 )whe-e, anJ cit Edinburgh, he remained un¬til December i663, that he was banished.6. While prifoner in the Bafs, cueSabbath-mhrning. being about the jiubdicworship of'God, a young lafs, about 13 or14 years of age, came to the chamber-door mocking'with loud laughter : Ke fairi,“ Poor thing, thou mocks and laughs nr“ the worship of Gcd ; but, ere lon;:T, God“ shall write fuch a fudden-furprising judg-ment on thee, that shall flay thy laughing,“ end thou shait not efcape it.” — Veryshortly after, she was walking on the rock,and there came a bialt of wind and fweepodher into the fea, where she perished.7. One day, when Mr Peden was takingthe air upbn the rock, feme fcldiers p2flingby bum, one of them faid, “ Devil ttke him.”“ Fy, fy. poor man, laid Mr. Ptden, thou“ knoweft not what thou an#faying ; but“ thou wilt repent that.” At which wordsthe fo'dier flood aflonished, and went tothe guard-houfe diflrsdled, crying aloudfor Mr. Peden, faying, the Devil wouldimmediately take him away ! But whenMr. Peden came him, he found him in hisright mind, under deep convictions of greatguilt. The guard being to change, tliev*■ desired him to go to his arms; which he:refuled to do, and laid, he wtuld lift t.carms. agaiuft. j=fus Ghrift and his caufe, toparfecute' his people; he had done thattoo long. The Governor threatened himwith death to-morrow about ten of theclock; but he confidently faid, three times,tho’ he should tear all his body in pieces,he should never lift arms that way. Aboutthree days after, the Governor put him outof the garrifon, and fet him a-shore. Hehaving a wife and children, took a boufein Kail Lothian where he became a singularChri Han. Mr. Penen told thefe aflonish-'ing p*ffages to the forefaid John Cubilbnand others, who informed mt\8. When brought from the Bafs toEdinburgh, and fentence of banishmentpalled upon lum in Dec. 1678. and sixtymore fellow prifmers, for the fame caufe,to go to America, never to be feen in Scot¬land again, under the pain of death ; afterthis fentence was p'.fled, he feveral timesi’aid, that the fli p was not yet built thatIhould take him and thefe prifoners toVirginia, or any other of the Englifhplantations in America.9. One James Kay, a folid and graveChadian, om of the above prifoners, wholives in or about the Water of Leith, toldme, that M . P’-den faid to him, James,“ vv hen your -wife .comes Ln, let me fee her.’*( 9 )Which he did. After forrre dtfcourfe, hecalled for a drink; and when he loughta blefling, he laid, “ Good Lord, let not“ James Kay’s wife mifs her hufb^nd, tilf“ thou return him to her in peace and“ fafety; which we are fare will be fooner“ than either he or fhe is looking for.”—-Accordingly, the fame day-month that heparted with her at Leith, he came hometo her at the Water of Leith.10. Whew they were on fhipboard atthe Water of Leith, -there was a report,that the enemies were to fend down thum-kins to keep them from reb'Jling. Hearingthis, they were difcouraged. Mr. Pedencame on deck, and faid, “ Why are you“ difcouraged ? You need not fear, there“ there will neither thurabkins nor boot-“ kins come here. Lift up your hearts” and heads, for the day of your redemp-“ tion draweth near, ff we were once“ at London, we will b? all fet at liberty.’’And when failing on their voyage, prayingpublicly, he faid, “ Lord, fuch is the ene-“ mios hatred at thee, anti malice at us,“ for thy fake, that they will not let us (lay“ in thy land of Scotland, to ferve thee,l* thouga fome of us have nothing but the“ canopy of thy he wens above us, and“ thv earth to tread upon ; but Lord, we“ blefs thy name, that wili. cut Ihort our( 10 )“ voyage, and frultrate thy enemies oi“ their wicked defign, that they will not“ get us where they intend; and fome of us“ fliallgo richerhome than we came away.’'James Pride, who lived in Fife, an honell:man, being one of them, he faid many times,he could alTert the truth of this, for he camefafely home ; and, btlide other things, hebought two cows ; and before that he neverhad one. I had thefe accounts both fromthe forefaid James Kay and Robert Punton,a known public man, worthy of all credit,who was alfo under the fame fentence, wholived in the panfh of Dalmeny, near theQueensferry.11. When they arrived at London, theSkipper who received them at Leith, wasto carry them no further. The Skipperwho was to receiv'e them there, and carrythem to Virginia, came to fee them, theybeing.reprefented to him as thieves, robbers,and ev'! doers ; but when he found they |were all grave Chriftian me it, ban idled for |Prcfbvte-ian principles, he laid, he wouldfail \he fea with none tuch. In tbts ccn- „fufton, tha the one Skipper would not re- |ce ve them, and the other would keep themro longer, being expen£'/e to maintain |them, they were all let at liberty. It v-rs Ireported, that both the Skippers got cem-Jjpliiuents from friends at Loudon ; however, |( II )it is certain they v/ere f«fely fet free, withoutsny impofition of bonds or oaths ; and theirfriends at London, and on their way home¬wards through Lnglan-d, fhewrci much kind-nefs unto them.12 That difmal day, June szd. 1679,at Both#el-bridge, that-, the Lord’s peoplefell, and flsd before the enemy, lie v.'^s fortymiles riiftant, near the border, and kepthimfelf retired until the middle of the day,that feme friends laid to him, “ Sir the‘‘ people are waitiDg for fermon.” He faid,“ Let the people go to their prayers ; for .“ me, I neither can nor will prencu any“ this day; for our friends are fallen and“ fl.d before the enemy at Hamilton; and“ they srehapging and hafhing them down,“ and their blood is running like water.”•13 Afteti this, he was' preaching inGallon. ' ay : In the eft.ernoon he prayedearneftly for the pvifontrs taken at ’andabout Bothwtl; tut in the afernocn.when he began to pray ior them. I t bakedand Lid, 1 Orr tritrds at Ed;nburgh, theprifor.trs. have done fi mtwhat to fr.ve“ tt.eir lives that fhsll no* do theni any“ good ; ior tlie ft; rbillows {nail be many“ the it winding-fheets; and the feu 'tf“ them t. at eicape, (hall not he uicful to“ God in their generalicc.V Which was( 12 )fadly verified thereafter. That which thegreateft part of thefe prifoners did, wasthe taking of that Bond, commonly calledthe Black-Bond, after Bothwel, whereinthey acknowledged their appearance inarms, for the defence of the Gofpel andtheir own lives, to 4>e rebellion ; and en*gaged themfelves never to make any moreoppofuion : upon the doing of which, thefeperfidious enemies promifed them life andliberty; which much grieved Mr. Peden.14. Atter the public murdering of thefetwo worthy women-martyrs, Ifobel Allifon,and Marion Harvie, in tho Grafs-marketof Edinburgh, Janoary 1681. he was inGalloway; a professor of fome note, whohad more carnal wit and policy than tofuffer him to be honed and faithful, afterreafoning upon the grounds of their fufFer-ings, affirmed that they would never bereckoned among the number oi the martyrs.Mr. Peden faid, after miffing a little, “ Let“ alone, you’ll never be honoured with fuch“ a death : and for what you have faid“ agfiinft thefe two worthy lafses, your“ death will be both fudden and furprifmg.,>Which was fliortly thereafter; the man{landing before the fire, fruocking bus pipe,dropt down dead, without fpeaking morp( *3 )15. In the month of Jane, 1682. he w»sin the houfe of James Brown, in Paddock-holm, above Douglas, John Wilfon irtLanerk, was with him, who fuffered mar¬tyrdom, in the Grafs-market of Edinburgh,the next year, May 1683 He le£luredat night upon Amos viu. and repeated thefewords in the 9th verfe three times. And Iwill rife againft the boufe of Jcroboam. withtbe f-word. He laid his hands on the faidJohn, and faid, “ John, have at the unhappy‘f name of SteWarts 1 off the throne fhall“ they go, if all the world ihould fet fide“■ and fhoulder to hold them on.” * After¬wards he broke out in a rapture about ourMartyrs, faying, “ They were going off“ the llage with with frefli gales and full“ fails, and now they are glancing in glory !41 Oif ye faw them! they would flee yo out“ of your wits.” He again laid his handsupen the faid John, and faid, “ Encourage“ yourfclf in the Lord, and hold him fall,“ John ; for you’ll win up yonder fhortly,“ and get on your braws.” That nighthe went to the fields. To-morrow, aboutfix o’clock John went to feek him, andfound him coining to the houfe. He faid,“ John, let os'go from the houfe, for the*l devil is about it, and will take his prey“ with him.” John faid, “ We will take *“ hreskfall ere we get, it is a queftion when1 will get the offer again,” He an.( U )fwrered, “ No no, 1 will not e*t bread in“ this place; our landlord is an unhappy“ man ; the devil will get him fliortly, ;for“ he will hang himfelf.’* Which veryfliortly af er came to pafs ; his daughter,Jean Brown, was the lirlt that got him inher arms hanging in the liable. Siie wasreckoned by all, to be a grave Ghriilian lifs,but from that day never had her health,and died of a decay at lad, after Hie hadbeen fome time in prifon for her principles.This passage the fame John Willem re¬ported feveral times to many.16. In the year 1680, after the murder¬ing of Mr. Cameron, and thefe worhleswith him at Airdfraofs, Mr. Peden wasnear Machline in the Ihire of Ayr : . oneRobert Brown, of Crof?-houfe, who livednear the New-Mills. and one Hugh Pina-neve. fact dr to the Earl of Lothian, {tabledth eir liorfes in that houfe where he was,and went to the fair i;i Machl’me ; and inthe afternoon, when they came to takeawsv their horfts. they got a drink in thetime of it. The Lid Hugh, a very wickedman. both in principle and practice, brokeout in a railing againlt In IF. re: c, particu¬larly again!! Mr. Cameron : Mr. P d^nbeing in another room ovet hearing all,was o grieved, tha’ he came to the cinm-ber-door, and faid to the fi'id Hugh, ' S:r,‘k hold your peace, e’re. twelve o'clock thou.( 15 )“ flialt know what-for a man Mr. Cameron“ was; God dull pumfn that blafphemoiis“ month and curfed tongue of yo.irs. in“ fuch a manner as dull oe aftoniQiiog taall that fee you, and diall let you up an“ a beacon to all railing rUbfhakeh-s.5’-—Robert Brown knowing Mr. Peden, haftedto his horfe, being perfuaded Mr. Peden’swords would not full to the ground, andfeering that fome mifchtef might befal himfor being in the faid Hugh’s company, herode hard home. Robert went to his ownhoiife, and Hugh to the Eirl’s houfe ; andcalling off his boots, he was Rruck withfuck a ficknefs and pain through his body,with his mouth fo wide, and his tonguehanging fo far out in a fearful manner,that they fent for the fa;d R ibert; beingtiled to take blood, he got fome blood ofhim, hut alt in vain, for he died beforemidnight. The fa id Robert, sn old min,told me this passage when we were bothin prifon together.17. In the year 1682. he was in Kyle,and preached upon that text, The plowcrtplowed upon my buck, they dr,cm long theirfurrows. Where he faid, ‘ Would ye knowwho firlt yoked this plow ! It w$s curfedCain, wnen he drew his iurrows fo longand sifo deep, that he let out the heaft-blood c£ his brother Abeland his curled.( i* )“ feed h*s, and will gang, fummer and“ winter, frolt and frelh weather, till the“ world’s end; and at the found of the“ laft trumpet, when all are in a“ their theets will bum, and their fwingle-“ trees will fall to the ground, the plowmen“ will lofe their gripes of the plow, and“ the gadmeu will throw away their gads;“ and then, O the yelling and fhriekingu that will be among all this curfed feed,“ clapping their hands, and crying to the4t hills and mountains to cover them fromthe face of the Lamb, and of Him that“ fits upon the Throne, for their hatred“ of Him, and malice at his people.”iS. In the beginning of May 16S5, hecame to the houfe of John Brown andMarion Weir, whom lie married beforehe went to Ireland, where he hayed allliight; and in the morning, when he tookfarewell, he came out at the door fayingto himfelf, “ Poor woman, a fearful morn-ing, (twice over) & dark miilv morning.”The next morning, between five and fixo’clock, the faid John Brown, having per¬formed the worfhip of Gcd in his family,vt is going, with a fpade in his hand, to putfome peat-ground in order ; the mill beingthick and dark, he knew not until crueland bloody Claverhoufe compassed himwith three troops of horie, brought him to' ( 17 }his houfe, and there examined him; who,tho’ he was a man of hammering ipeech,yet anfwered him ditlinftly and foiidly ;which made Ciav^rhoui'e to ife at tholewhom he had taken to be his guides thro*the muirs, if ever they heard him preach 2They anfiyer d, No, no, he was nevera preacher. Claverhoufe faid, “ If he hasnever preached, he has prayed.” Thenhe fatd to John, “ Go to your prayers, for“ you {hall immebiately die.’’ When hewas praying, Claverhoufe interrupted himthree times. One ume that he ftopt im,he was pleading that the Lord would {parea remnant, and not make a full end inthe day of his anger. GUverhoufe-faid,“ I gave vou time to prav, and ye are be-“ gun to preach.” John turned a oivtupon his-knees, and'faid, “ Sir, you know“ neither the nature of preaching nor pray-■“ ing, if you call this preachinr.” Thencontinued without confufion. When ended,Claverhoufe faid, *• Take goodnight of“ yonr wife and children.” His wifeHanding by, -with a child in her arms, whichfne had to. him, and another child of his{irfl wife’s, he came to her and Lid,44 Now, Marion, the day is coine thar I“ told you would, come, when I fpake hrltto you of marrying She Lid,Ii.deed, John, I can willingly part v ith“ you.” Then he faid, “ That is all I( 13 )<c defu'e, I hive no more to do but die.”He then kissed his wife and bairns, 'andwifned pure.'.afed and promifed blefiingsto be multiplied upon them, and his ownbleffing. Claverhoufe then ordered fix o£his foldiers to ihcot, and the mofl partof the bullets'came upon his head, whichfcattered his brains upon the ground !—•Claverhonfe laid, to his wife, “ What think“ ye of your hylband now, woman ?'’—■She fud, “ I thought ever much of him,“ Snd now as much as ever.” He faid,“ It were juft ice to lay thee belide him.”She anfwered, “ If ye were permitted, I“ doubt not but your cruelty would go“ that length : But how will ye aufwer“ for this morning’s work ?’’ He faid,To TH*n I can be anfwerable, and for“ God, 1 will take him in my own hand.”Glaverhoufe mounted his horfe, and thenmarched, and left her with the dead corpfeof her hriband lying there. She fet thebairn on the ground, gathered Iv.s brains,tied up his head, flraighted his body, andcovered him with her plaid,- and fat downand wept ever him. It being a very deiartplace, where victual never grew, and farfrom neighbours, it was feme lime betoreany friends came to her; the firil that camewas a very fit nnikh that cld fiagulr.r womanin theGuimnerhead, named ElizabethMen-:zies, three rsiiec dilHut v/ho had bfeo tried( i9 )with the violent death of her huftnad atPiutland, and afterwards of two worthyTons, Thdmas Weir, who was killed atDrum-clog, and David Steel, who was fud-denly (hot afterwards when taken. Thelaid Marion Weir, fitting upon her htrfband’sgrave, told me, that before that, fhe couldfee no blood but (lie was in danger to faint,and yet fhe was helped to be a witnefs toall this, without either fainting or confufion,except when the fhots were let off, her eyesdizzied. His corpse were buried at theend of his houfe, where he was Him, withtids infcription on .his grave-llone.In rartb's cold b,-d) the dufty part here l esyOf ' nc whs did the eanb as dufi dfpife :drierc in this place, ftom earth be to-okdeparturejVrw be bat got the garland of a Martyr*Tins murder was committed betwixtfix and (even in the -morning, Mr. Pedenwas about ten or eleven miles dillant.—■Having been in the fields all right, heesme'to the hotife betwixt 7 and 8, anddefired to cal' in the family, that he mightpray amengd them; when praying he fivid,“I/rd, when wilt thou a-verge Brown’s“ blood r—Ohl let. Brown’s blood be pre-clous in thy fight ; and hafien the day“ vvhen thou w lit avenge it, syithCixneroiPs,( 20 )e: Carglps, (and many others of our martyr’s41 names,) and, oh! for that day, when the^ Lord will avenge all their blood!’*—When ended, John Muirhead enquiredwhat he meant by Brown’s blood ? He faid,twice over, “ What do I mean ? Claver-houfehas been at thePrefhilthis morning,“ and has cruelly murdered John Brown;“ his corpfe is lying at the end of his houle,“ and his poor wife fitting weeping befideil them, and not a foul to fpeak comfort-ablv to her. This morning, after the‘‘ fun-rifing, I faw a llrange apparition in“ the firmament; the appearance of a very“ bright, clear-fhining ftar, fall from heaven“ to the earth ; and indeed there is a clear-41 fhining light fallen this day, the greateftChrifUan that ever. I converfed with.”19. When the time of Mr. Peden’s deathdrew near, and not being able to tiavel, hecame to his brother’s houfe, in the parifhof Sorn, where he was born. He caufeddig a cave, with a faughen bufh coveringthe mouth of it, near to his brother’s houle.The enemies got notice, and fearched thehoufe narrowly many times. In the timethat he was in this cave, he faid to fomt^friends, ift. That God ihall make Scotlanda defolation.—zdly, There (hall be a rem¬nant in the land, whom God (hould fpareand hide, r—3dly, They Ihould lie in holes( 21 )and cavet of the earth, and be fupplied withmeat and drink; and whei^ they come outof their holes, thev fhall not have freedomto walk, for ftumbiing on dead corpfes.—aphly, A ft one, cut out of a mountain,fhould come down, and God ihall be a~venged on the great ones of the earth, andthe inhabitants of the land, for their wick-edneft; and then the church fhould comeforth with a bonny bairn-time of young onesat her back. Giving them that for a lign,if he were but once buried, they might bein doubts ; but if he were cftener buriedthan once, they might be perfuaded that allhe had laid would come to pals.20. Mr. Pedjln died January 28th, 1686,being prft ftxty years; and was buried inLord Afflc-dt’s Ifte. The enemies got noticeol his death and burial, and fent a troop ofdragoons, and lifted his corpfe, and carriedhim to Gamnock-gallows-foot, and buriedhim there (v»fter being forty days in thegrave) befide other martyjs. His friendsthereafter laid a grave-ftone above him,with this infeription,• /ferir liesMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN,Afaitbful Minifter of the G of pel t Gxenll'CEWbo departed thu lif e January 28,1686.Andivas raifed^ofter 6 weeks,out of bisGraveAdd buried bore out of contempt.{ )ALET T E RjFROMMr. ALEXANDER PE DEN,To the Prifoners in Dun;.oiar-Cf/fi/etJuly a68j.Dear Friends,I Long to hear from you, how you fpendyour time ; and how the grace of Godgrows in your hearts. I know ye, andether of the other of the Lord s people,by reafon of the prei’ent trial, have got upa faihion of complaining upon Chnft.; butI defy you to fpeuk an ill word of him,uttlcfe ye wrong him. Speak as you can,and fpare not ; only I requell that yourexpreffions of Chrilt be fuitable to yourexper.ence of him. If ye think Orift’shoufe be bare and ill-provided, and harderthan ye looked for, afture yourfelves Chriftminds-only to diet you, and not to hungeryou : our Steward kens when to fpend andwhen to fpare. Chr.ft knows well, whe¬ther heaping or ftraking agrees bed withour narrow veffels. for bo'h are alike tohim : Sparing will not enrich him, nor willfpcnding impov -nfa him He thinks ifill-wou that is holden off his people.~( 23 )Grace and glory comes out of Chrift’slucky hand. Our vefiels are but fecklefs,and contam littie: His fulnefs is moftllrained when it wants a vent. It is eafyfor Chrift to be holden bufy ia dividingthe fulnefs of his Father’s hotife to hispoor friends. He delights not to keepmercy over-night. Everyday brings newmercies to the people of God. He is theeafieli merchant ever the people of Godyoked with : II ye be pleafed with thewares, what of his graces makes belt foryou, he and you will foon fort on the price;he will fell goods cheap, that ye may fpierfor hi? ftiop -gain ; and he draws all thefa.e to htrnfelf. I counlel you to go nofarther thap Chrift. And now. when it iscome to your door,, either to fin or fuffer,I counlel you to lay your account withfullering; for an out-gate coming fromany other airth, will be prejudicial to yourfoul’s intcreft. And lor your encourage¬ment, rr.member he fends none a warfareca their own charges. And bleft i^theman that gives Ciirift. all his moner.—1 he f&feft way to Ihift the Ihower, is tokeep within God’s doors, until the violence©t the ftorm ebb ; for it is not yet full tide.Chrift deals tenderly with his young plant",and waters them oft, left they go back;be painful, and lof not life for the feekirg,Grace, mercy and peace be with you,( 24 ) VEPITAPH^Upon the Martyr*’ Monument in the Grey-friars'Cburcb yard in Edinburgh.Upon the Head of the Tomb there is the Effigies oan open Bible drawn, with thefe Scripture-citationsRev. vi. 7 to, it. \nd when lie had opcne<“ the fifth fcal, f faw under the altar the fouls ©'* them that had been flain for the Word of God“ and for the teftimony which they held," bfc. Rev. vii. 14. — Alfo the following Lines.H ALT. patTengers, take heed what you do fee.This Tomb doth (hew for what f<>me men did diejHere lies intsrr’d the dufl of thofe who flood’Gainfl perjury, refilling unto blood;Adhering to the Covenants, and Law*Eftablifliing the fame; which was the caufeTheir lives were facrific’d unto the luflOf Prclatifts abjur’d.— Tho’ here their duftLie* mix’d with murderers, and other crew,Whom Juftice juftly did to death purfue; , 3But as for thefe, no caufe in them was foundWorthy of death, but only they were foundConftant and fledfefi, zealous, witneffingFor the. Prerogatives of Christ their King.Which Truths were feal’d by famous Guthrie’s bead,And all along to Mr, Reuwiclc’s blood.Tiiey did endure the wrath of enemies.Reproaches, torments, deaths and injuria*;But yet they’re thefe who from fuch trouble came.And now triumph in tflo.ry with the Lamb.From May 27th. 1661, that the noble Marqui*of Argyle fuffered, to Feb. 27th. 1688. that Mr. Jamc*Renwiclc fullered, 100 Noblemen, Gentlemen, Mini-flers, and others, were executed at Edinburgh, noblaiMartvr* for Jesus Christ. The mofl part of them !lie here. It is alfo faid, that 28,000 fufferid in ttift'late perfccution iu Scotland.FINIS.