TUB ANCIENT AND MODERNH 1ST O R YO FB U C K-H A V E NINF I F E - S II I R E,Wherein is Cnritaineti.Tiie antiquities of there old drefs. The Buckyhoac,■with the-flag of a green tree; with their dancingWilly and hij trufly rapper. Their Burgefs Ticketwith a vew of their new college; the netted fayingaand exploits of Wife Willy in the Brae, WittyEppie the ele-wife and Lingle rail'd Nncy,P-y MERRY ANDREW at TAMTALL\N.T HE11 I S T O R Y».O F£ U C K- H J F E N.t* ■ - fA mongst ft veral aniient records this Bucky is notmvntioned: there was a fet called Buckaneers,' who were pirates, that is to lay fea robbers, and nf-, ter a ftrift iearch fo rthat fet of fea robbers, they dif-perfed; what of them efcaped juftice in the foutherncl mate, are faid to have fheltered at or near Berwick |upon Tweed After a fm’art battle, among them-jfelves, they divided, and it is faid, the party whcjgained this Bucky.battle, feared the Engliflt law tctake place, fet forward and took up their refidence a!this Bucky haven, fo called, not only from the greatquantity of buckles that are found in and about thatplace, but on account of the battle they had with theiineighbours at Berwick, when they divided, whiefwas then called bucking one another; but it is nowr amed boxing or fighting, another party of theftBucket's fettled in another town northwards t<Banff called Bucky, near the river Spey, which is iilarge fea-town; but among all the fea towns in Scotland, the ftffers fliil retain' a language quite'diffexfrom he people in the country , and they almoiall mifs the letter ‘i, and ufe O inftead thereof >which no country people do in Scotland but thenfelves. There is a corruption of fpeech in ever icountv over all Britain and iikewife they ufe diffe:ent terms and ways of pronouncing words fro jothers, even fame in the fouth of- Scotland csfc'rdly be nnderifood by thofe in the north, thou$;:hey both preteud to i'peuk Englitli, and t» have.iberal education; but i s learning is no v fo eafy tose obtained, ignorance and corruption of fpeech arejreatly decreaied^ *In the county of Fife* on the fea coaft, there (landsi little town, inhabited b ietv but fifliers, calledduck-haven, becaufe of th^ fea bucuics^nd flieHs thatire found fo plenty upon the roct s. in Ted about thealace ; there is little mention made of this town bymtorian*, to know its orignal extrailioc and rtiti-juities, but in their own burgeis ticket, whicli wasmrt of it perfedl truth#, hit more of it* by way ofampoon; this ticket was dated the two rind thirtylay of the month Julius Caifar, their coat of armsivas twa hands gripping each other over r. fcate’s•umple, tbe;r oath ■ as, “ I wifli the deii may takjne an I binna an honeth man to you in ye. binna detike to me “ An article of • ood neighbourhood theyban, whoever w^s firit up in a good morning, vs as lobaile all the reft lo go to fea, but if a bad morning,hey pifs and ly down -giin, till break of day. thenaifes wife Willy who cou.d judg? the Veathcr bvhe blowing of the wind.Their freedoms were to take all kinds of f fh cut-( 4 /taloed in tHyir tickets, viz, labfters. partans, pod!es |fpout fiOi, fea *tt», ft a dogs, flukes, pikes, dike- padJdoclts. and p fiih.4mon^ thefe people \vei-e f iid to be one Tom andhis t*r.M fons, who were fifliers on the coafl: ot Norawayand in a violent florm were blown over, and got a-flior« to iucky-harbour, wkere .they fettled, and thewhole ot his children were called the Thomfons, this is ahitl*rical faying, handed down from one generation!to anstuer. So in courfe of time they grew up and■auft piicd, that they foon became a little town bythamfelves : few or any other name dwelt amongftthem and **ere all called the Thorr.fons •, they keptbut little communication with the country peoplefor * farmer in thofe days thought his daughter cafiaway, flic married one of the fiflters in Bucky-harbour and Witty Eppte the ale wife, wad a fwortbe.,go, laddie, 1 wad rather fee try boat, and a‘ nC 9 )pe took a great fwelHn'O- his w&me, and cattingjap ol his tail collopsand cauld fifb, that nothing liaid(on his ttomach; and a ftont fto»»ach had he, for crab(heads or fcatc-brofe, t-r fat brofe on a bridal* ntorn-"pg» yet it faii‘d him ; he fell Tick and none could curejhim or tell .what aii*d him till a mountebank ftage-idoflor came to Kirk.caldy, that could judge by peo¬ple's water, the troubles of their perfofi, and Willyjhearing of his fame, pitted unto a bottle, and lent itaway with his daughter, the bottle being uncorked*his daughter Ipilt it by the way, and to conceal herfloth in fo doing, pitted in it herfelf, and on Ihe goes,came to the ftage, and cries Sir Doctor, Sir DoAor,jhere is a bottle of my f.ther's walli. and he has a3 fair guts, never, needs to drite, he fpues a‘ he eats*J‘tis true I tell you my dow; the do£lor looks at it,land lays, it is not you father’s, furely it is your(mother's ; a di'el’e i‘ the nun, co the divna I ken my|fat.her by mv mither? rI'hen (aid he, he is with|Ci>ild. A. devils i‘the man, eo‘(lie for my mother| ore a‘ de bairns before, chits no true (ir, a figs ye‘fea Kicat liar, home Ihe came, and toll'd Willy, her“dier, that the doftor faid he was \vh baiin. U waesm^e, ^ hae a muekle wame, and I fearu s o tr true, O piugue on you Jr.nnet, for ye're therather o’t, and ] rn lure to die in the Leuring o't~~r ^ v/as ^ert ^ol i aa die v.'as howdy, andtand a yvlily's wsme co be i'ure about it; irnleetl ca‘i-ppic, ye'rt; t};e firft roan e cr ; faw wi' bairn beforeennhovv you'd bear't l dinna ken, ye Lae awtdly wamev eei i wat, but how m en bear bairns I neverfaw themytt, but L would drink fat 'water and drown't in uuy^u1,SV T°r !'1 meu allce iate ll* bearing weansthemldls, tney'H feek nae mae wives : fo Willy drankea-water till his »uts w^as like to rive, and out hegoes to eafr him.!elf among the kail, and with theteii.oie hurl of tarring, up flares * matuen bs-—---' ( IQ )hind him, thinking the was fliot, Willy fees, her jump?irfi- o^er the dyke, thought it was a chiid broughtforth, cries, Come back my dear and bs chridened^and no ria to the hils and be a Pagan, Co Will£grew better every day thereafter, being brought tabed in the kail-yard ; but bis daughter was broughtto be,! fome months thereafter, which $vas the caufe^ef th« debtor's miiiake. »P A R T. I I. |NOW vtufe Willy had a daugiiter, called Rolloch-ing Jenny, becaufe fhe l] oke thick, fix words atthree times half irnfe and halt nonfenle, as herown words and adlions will bear witnels. She be¬ing with child, was brought to bed of a bonny laikbaifn; and a' the wives in the town cried be-goladdie, its juft like it‘s daddy, lang dandy Taion,(or Thornton) we ken by its nofe, lor Sandy had a,great muLkle red nofe like a lobfter’i tae bowed pt jthe point like lniwk s neb, and Sandy h mielf laid Iitwss fu ely bis or fome other body s but he had uf- f'ed a his birr at the getting o’t, to iee bis abi itv, jceing the lirft time that c*. r he v. as at lick a buiineis-oe-tbre, and when he had done a' that man cou d do,arit, ;oid it was aonefeni’e a d fliamela' hiay but he .fwad rather rowr Lis bo-.t round i be Be Is and back a* f-gain, or he did the life again : Lor jvife Willy gade ywoou at the wean, ard faid, it hr.d tnair ill nature »tn't nor the uildetl wife about the town,it pife’d thebed and flat the bed, ficirl’d-like a wild cat. and keeps ,nim fn.e bis night's reft i and a’ the auld bags •■doutthe town ca'd Sandy de bail n‘8 dadfiy, and a' theyoung gilly gawkie lafles held out their fingers and S'cried, Tee, hte, Sandy the kivk will kittle your iiips 1yet ’And after a‘ the- bleir e>; d beU man, came bkdicring about the buttock mail, fummoned him andier before the hally baud* a <yurt that is held in theilrk on Sunday Tnornin^;; and a* the ill bred laddiesound about, cried, Ay, -ayi San dy, pay the bill*,ller, or vre‘li cut the cow s tail awa, io poor San-iy fuffered fa^jy in the ficlh, behcies the penaity andnd kirk penance. 'But wile Willy had pity upon them and gadesi then? to the t.irk cou”t, what learned folks callhe ftflion, Jenny was fidt called upon and in flic^oes where all the hally-band were convened, eld-ms and yobngers, deacons and dog payers keeping.he door, the cankerdcft cards that could be gotten^K'tween Dyfart and Dubby fide,, white heads an^>aM iieads, fitting wanting bonnets, wi‘ their whiteie ded Itaves, and hodding gray jockey coats' upon'i :hem. ,Mels Johx. fays. Come away Jaimet, we<re awaiting on you here.M-n) Now Januet*where was this child gotten/you malt tell me plainly.jan. a, deed dir it was gotten among the blackjftanes at the cheek of the crab holes.] Mel^ John, ft ares at her* not knowing tiie place,ibet fohie of the tldei-s did ; then laid he, O Jannet.but the devil has been bufy with you at tiie time-! jan. fly in figs flir, that's a great lie ye‘re tellingpow, for the deul ,wifna thereabout, it I f&w, nor| nae body elfe, to bid us do either ae thing or anither,1 v/e loo-d it ret unco y.eel for a long ti*c before thatand fyne we ttil’d ither, and grec,l to marry itherli-either hoiuh fouk, then mi htha we ititrn to doti * tiling married fouk doest without the duvil help¬ing us.l\ hied, '.vineft c-.ied they, you flibuld be fcourgedfaufs loon quecr.it thou ir, ye’re fpeaking uonfenfe' T^1- —r- . -■ ^  8Tie c:eli!s i the caries tor you and y®m* reiriHter is hars, ?d;c:i ye {iy that the de‘il was helpingS^ndy and me get de hairn.*CoTr.e, come fa id' they, pay down the kirk duesjand come back to the Itool the morn, four pound anda groat to the. b( ii man. . "ftJan. The auld chiet fpeed the dearth o’t, ftir, forilefs might fair you and your beh man baitb, O butthis be a h-ird warld indeed when poor hone ft folks!maun pay for making use o‘ their a—, ye mifca ayde poor deU ahint his hack, and gie him de wyte o’a de ill that is done in the kintry, baftard bairns and ’evei'y thing, and if it be as you lay you may thank dedeil for that guide four pound and a groat i hae gi?*n iyou, that gars ronr pots boil brown and-,get jockey-coats, purl handed forks, and white headed ftaves, iwhen my fathers pot wallops up rough bear and bluewater.The woman’s mad, fa id they, for this money is allgiven to the poor of the paw Lb.Jan. The poor o’ the pari ill had {he, and that's !the way o-t, a dent hait-yj-gie them, but we pickles'lo< pesfe meal, tlrdna i fce‘t in them pocks and de mi-' inifters wife gies naething ava to unca beggars, but,,hid* them gang liame to their aia parifh, and yet ye‘ll i• tak de purfe frae poor louis for naething but playing ]the Iqui' a wee or tliev , be married, and {yne coc^sthem up to be looked on and laaght at by everf body» .a deil fpeed you and your juftice ilir; hute, tute, ye.are a coming on me now li:;e a wheen colly dogs, ,hunting awa a poo ' ragget chapman frae the door,and out ftie conus, curling and greeting : Sanday snext called upon and in he goes.Min- No\y Sanders, von nnun tell us how thischi d ;v?.s gotren.three fons ekudet again ft the Jtafs or I faMT ony ane oflliem married on a muck, a byre‘s daughter, aT»heenufelefs taupies that; can do naething but rive at » towrock and} cut com. the? can neither bait a hook, norred a line, hook ibndTes, nor gather periwinkels.Now Wife Wiily’andtvittyEppiethe nk-vv'ij'e livedthere about an hundred, years ago. hippie's ch»:nberwas their callage and court houle, where they decid¬ed their controvt . ties, and e xplained their woaders,for the houfe was wid»liv:e a little kirk, and fqurwindows and a gavel door, the wives got lesv.e tonyte their fill, list fighting was forbidea as hippiefaid up hands was fair play; their fines were a‘ inpints o‘ ale and Eppie fold it-nt a ]d.;ck the pint, th4yhad neio.er minilter nor magiflrate nor jot a burlybailie to- brag tl>em wi‘ his tolbooth, nsy Lord wastheir Landlord, Wife Willy and Witt; Eppie the ale-wife were the rulers *f the town.Now Eppie had a daughtsr, called Lingle tail'Naniy, becaufe of iier feeklei's growth, her waiwas like a twitter,, had nae curpen for a ci eel beirLmbi uch breo, and brpugnt up vvi* her Low din aunt'*i-'S learned toTead, and few, made corfe claiths ancalhco mutches, there wifna a fcholor in the towbut neritl, file read the Bibie, rna the book of Kiri-.ngs., winch was newly come in fafhlon, Willv aEppic te.Vd ay what it inean't, ;nd iX\ & the Mfin it was littcd by my lord, for they faw him bae tfeather that he dipped in black water and madecrooked fcores jart like theTame, and then he fpoke tcit, over again and it told him what to (ay.It happened on a day, that two of their wivesfound a horfe-fhoe near the town, brought it home,and fiSht for wife Willy to fee what it was; Willycomes and looks at it, indeed co1, Willy, its a tiling*nd holes int. Then Odd they, he would get sname till’t; aha, co.Willy, bu* where did you findit? Ana ah my Lord’s ain heufe, Willy, Adeed faidljWilly it’s the auM moon, I lan by the holes in’t fornailing it to the lift; but l wonder it fell in fife-for the la'O time I faw her, (lie was hinging on herbuck aboon Embruch ; a he eh co’ Willy, we’ll hasher let up on the higheft houfe in the to a h, and we'llhsz moon light o' our ain a the days o’ the yesr.THE NEW COLLEGE.»* •The whole townran to fee the moonHout tout,' criedflWitty Eppse,ye’rea' fools together, itis but an o' thethings that sayl ord’s mare wears,1on her lufe. *-At another time, one of the wives found a bare,with its legs broken, lying among her kail i» the yard;fixe, not knowing what it was, cade l out her neign-b'ours to fee it. "fome faid it was tome gentlemen’scat, or my Lady’s lap dog, or a (beeps young kitten,becaufe it had faft hern’s : .Na. na, cried wife Willy,it’s arie o’ tbe maukins, that gentlemans dogs worries.Waac will you do wit ? Haith co’ Maggy, Til fmgethe voo‘ afl t, and mal*: fifl« and fauce o’t to myTammys parich : No, no, fald witty Eppie. bet¬ter gie't to my Lord, and he‘U flap an iron ftick thro*‘ the guts o’t and gar t rin round afore the fire tillit be roaiicd: Na, na Lid wife Willy, we’ll nae dothat indeed, for my Lord would mak us a’ dogs andgar us rin thro’ th- kintry feeking maukins till him.It happened on a dark winter''morning, that twoof the wives we re going to Dyfart to fell their fifh,ans near the road fide there happened to be a tinker’snfs teddered, and the poor als feeing the wives com¬ing with their''reels, thought it was the tinkers oom-ing to fit orremovie him.dell a crying the two wivesthrew their fiflr aw^y and ran home like mad perfonscrying thej' had Len the de’il, aye the very hornedde’il, nne that He had fpoken to them, but they didnot ken what he faid, for it was worfe words then ahighlander s 5 the whole town was in an upi’oar,fome woula go with picks and fpadec, to hack himin pieces, others would catch him in a ftrcngnet. andthen they could either heng or drown him. Na, na>co wife Willy, we manna cah out wi’ him at thefirftas he’s gotten twa burden o’ 'fiih. he’ll ablens g&n,his wa'an no falli tui’e mair ; he’» o’er fouple -tp be"iul.’a is ;; rtt a1 your pi^will Headier hang nerdrown him, and the country he comes frne is a hetcoals he‘ll never burn, we‘ll go to birr in a civil man.net and fee what he wants; Get out Eppie the ale-wife, and lingie tail’d Nancy, wi the Bible and theSaum booh, fo i ff they came in a crcwd, either tohill the devil or catch him alive, and as they, camenear the place the afa fell a crying, which cauied ma¬ny of them to faint and run back : Na, na, co- Willythat's nothfi devils words av.i, it‘s m_y Lord's trum-.peter, touting on his brafa whiffle, V ill ventured ti’llie faw the ala's twa lugs, now, cried Will back totiie reft. Gome forewsrd and had him fall, 1 fee histwa hours a heefc sirs, he has a white beard like anscald .beggar man, fo th&y im.loled the poor afs on alli tide*, thinking it was tlsr dens, but *htn Wife Wilyffaw f : i;ad nae cloven feet, lie cried out, Fparnati\ds,zhh is no the dc'il, it’s feme' living btalt, ‘usneither a cow tun' a horfe, and what is it then Willy }indeed co' •VjH/ ‘tis the father o'a* tlie maukens {ken hy it's bias.Now fo-ae fays; thit is two CurScal a hjflorj',lut it'sscccrcinp to the knowledge oi ihole tinte.0, not to lay'in any pij.ee by ; cot her, old wives will y et tell us of•many inch honor as the devil r.pjieining to their grand¬fathers and grand mothers, and dead wives comingn-jrain to vifit their fatrilits h iw after their being bu¬ried: but this Buckhaven wf ich was once noted fordroll exploits is now become more knowing, and as aplace faid to produce the bell and hard id! hater nun 'of failors of any town on the Scots coafl; many of theold people in it ftill retain the old tincture of their•’d and uncultivated fpeccft, rs be go laddie, alio cl sfury nature if ycu afk any of the wives w..ere theircollege {lands, they‘11 tell y ou if your nofe were intheir *rfe, your mouth world be at the door of ;t..Now it happened, when Wife W illy tuictd oldfC *7 ) ,v/halps a young horle; Golli woman it wad be ill far'dto fee a woman fitting wi‘ a young 'ovfe on her knee,(lighting itvs arfe, and gien it the pap.The next oecafion was lang Sandy and Roloching3enny‘s weddiny, which held three days and twanights, my Icfdandmylady v/ithfeveralgentlennen andladies attended for diver(ion‘s fake, the piper of Kirk¬caldy and the fiddler orKinghorn, tvere both bidden byWife W illy the brides father, and if ony ane cameto play unbidden, Wjfe f-illy fwore they Qtould fitunfc.ir‘dj for theie two Qiould get a‘ the filler that wasto be ei‘en that day ; t?ie dinner and dordtr-mtat fata* in Kppie^e college, and the -dtincirg ttood in twarings bei*rc the door, and the firlt day with duntin.rand dangling of their heels, dang- down a< the feadyke, lone tumbled in, and feme held by the ftanesthe fiddler fell over the lugs and druhet a‘ his fiddle]the brings pied out of order, and the tripes turn'drift like pudding ikins. jo tne bag pipe ha* to do fora', and the fiddler g't nought to do but tup kail, arylpike banea wi‘ the rcit of them.Now my Lord c cook was to order the kettle, butPate of the Pans, plavM a Idd prat, cnfUn| in twopound of'candles amonjr k >ii which made them faefat, that fome coul i ot fur-- them, for the canulewicks came into their c.»tf:es like futter’s lingles inthe dith, but tom. of t!iem wi’ frrong^r Pomachs,ftripped them thro’ their teeth like ration tjils. andfaitl monv r an would be hlythe o‘ fic a llring to tietheir hofe wi* in a pinch: my Lord ani the Gentry,.Mets John and the Clerk were all placed at th* headof the table, oppofi' e to the bride, but would fupnoncof the candle kail, ‘ Vife Willy and the bridegroomferved the table, and cried fup and a forrow to you,for I never liked four kail about my hotsfe ; whenthe flellt came the bride rot a ram’s rumple to pick,file takes it up and wajs it at ray Lord, faying, li, hi,i niy Lord, what an a piece is dat ? O, laid be, that‘sthe tali piece that belongs to you; Vie, my Lord, it’sno mine, I never had a ting like dat, it’s a fdh tail,fee as it wags, it a a bic o' a dead bead:; 0 * es, laidhe, bride, you have hit it now : but how come youto eat with your gloves on ? Indeed my Lord, theiris a reafon for dat, I hac feebbtt hards. O fy, f«idhe, I canna believe y<30i fo fhe pulls down a pieceof her gloves and P-’ows him Q yes, faid he, I feeit is fo; aha, my Lord L wifli you faw my a—, it’sa’ in ae hotter: O fy feid he, bride, you fhould notfpeak lo before Ladies and your maiden ; 1 wonder,faid he to Wife Willy, he/father, you do not teachyour daughter to fpeak ctherwife. A be my leg, ipyLord, *e may as foop kite her a—, as far ncr .peak:otherwife : I find lo fata ir»y Lord, but it lies muchin lack of a tetche*'.The next difh that was prefented on the table was •roatled hens, and the brides portion beinjx lard onher plate, Ihe fays to my Lord, will yg let rne^dipmy fowl arfe amang your fauce 1 Upon my word and.that I will not, faid he, if it be as you tell’d me jhout my Lord, it’s no my -arfe, it’s but de htn’s Imean; O but laid he bride, it‘s the fafliion to everyone to eat off their own trencher; you may getmore fuuce, l can manage all mine myfelf; indeed,my Lord, I thought ye liket me better than ony bo¬dy ; O but, laid he, l love myfelf better than youbride; Deed my Lord, I think ye're the bell body,about the houfe.for your Lady’s but a ilir.Krng pnde-fu* j»de, fhe ihinks that we fud make the fifh a alike,be go, my Lord, fhe thinks that we fud ihape them asthe hens do their eggs wi5 deir arfe, O bride, faidhe, ) ou Ihould not ipeak ill of my lady, for flie hearsypu very wril; O deed my Lord, I had nae mind o’that; a well then, faid he, drink to me or them ye* like bell; then here’s to you a’ de gither, arfe o erhead. Very wed laid, fay s my Lord, that’s goodlenfe or fomething like it.Dinner being over, my Lord defired the bride tedance ; Indeed ny Lord, I canna dance' ony, but i’llgar my ■wacBe.wollnn foment your*, and then rinround about gs fait as i can; vei’y well, faid hebride that will juft do, wc (hall neither kil's sorfhake bauds, but I’ll bow to- you, and ye’il back tome, and fo *e’ll have cone. *Now after doner and dancing, my Lord exhortedtv e bride to be a good neighbour, and to agree wellwi’every body roundabout; I wat well my Lord,ye ken I never caft out wi’ nae body, but lang. Pate-6‘ the Pans as he was a de wyte o’t, it began wi’ afniering, and jamphing me about Sandy, de black-flanes and the crab hole . where the wean was gottenand then it turn’d to a hub bub and a colly fliangy,nn‘ or you wad iae kits ray arfe—, my Lord ; we wereaboon ither on the muffel midden, 1 true I tell’d him®‘ Randy Rob his uncle, his feif titty it Heal’d de farks( 30 )and drar.V de 'Uler, and how his midder fell‘ci maukymutlcT' i'!4 wuur rutr a that, a fae did I een, my Lord.Mv !. * i ;.rl r» friend ot his own, who \vas a cap¬tain in the army, whocame to viat him. andhearing s.f the Backersfayings and exploits, was( dehreoas to put them ina fright, fent his fervantand ordered them, bothmen and women, tocome up before his gate dirt<f!iy the morn abcut kail-time, and a* that aid'not come wr-» to flit and removeout of my Lords Ground diredlly, this put the wholeof them in a great terror, fome ran to Wife W illy toknow whatyit mean‘d, Willy laid it was before forrething, and he was Cure that death fnould be ihe ward,o‘t come what will; but witty Lppie faid, 1 kenweel wh«t‘s to come he‘s gaun to make the men o’us fodders and de wives draggons becaufe we‘re debeft fighters; ?. ken there is {pmsthing Co come onthe town, for our Nanny law Magiy's gaift th# Itreenit W4S buried four ooks fyne ; a heclir co‘ Vv ill/ tnat‘sa fign the meal is dear in the ither wa'rld, when fnecomes to think on t again; we wili.ta'-c our dinner orwe go, we‘U may be ne'er come back, again, fo awayth*y went lamenting all in a crowd. Lly i--ord andthe captain were looking out at the window to them,the captain cri s to them ^ To the rtgnt aocut, “ towhich they anlwsre, God blefs you my JLord, whatdoes that man fay?' Then faid my Lord, turn yourface to Maggy-mill heads, and year arfe to the fea;this the? did in all hafte ? And w-.at will ^e do no'v ?1 faid Willy: no more, fold my Lord, but gang awayhome V/illy ? O ray bows, U mv blefling coma o tryour bonny face my Lord, I writ ycu may never e.sSan. A vow Mefs' JoTinJ=» ftool, and give fatisfaftionThe minifter iook-s at himhute,tute,Sanders,lay downfour pound and a groat, andcome back to morrowto theftir, ye h^e bairns o* yourain, how did you Jet them,but yours is a laddies andmine is but a laffie, ifyou‘Utell me how you got yourladdies, l‘ll tell you how, Igot my laflie, an then »e‘llbe baith alike good at theLufinels.to the congregation, you had more need to be feek-ing repentance lor that botninable fin of uncleannefsthan fpeaking fo to me.San. 1 hen there’s your filler fitr, I’ve gotten poorpenny-worths for-t, and ye’il tell me to repent for‘t,what the auli thief needs I repent when I‘m gaun tomarry de woman and then 1*11 hae to do‘t o^er againevery day or they’ll be nr.e peace in tk ; houfe, figs its)if>n,enle to pay filler, repent arddo't again too, a fineau vice indeed matter minifter, au'l that is how y e live.Wife Vdiii. Now dir, you and mader elders, yemanna put them on the blacv. creepy till they be mar¬ried : the ,ive differed enougli at ae time.A well, a we!!, laid they but they mufl marryvery foon then.I trow fae, Ijys Sandy, *effl he wanting roair clinkfule hait ye do for naething here.i lame came Sandy* llarving o‘ hunger, ye might acaden a knot on his king guts, his mither was backingpeale bannocks up he gets a lump of ht r leven intor;s mouth auLl thief be on yor haggles bag, SandyC *4 )kirk-fcuks i« ay greedy, ye been \vi‘ the mlnifter thed*y» ye‘d get a good lang grace he might a given themeat thou filthy dog that tu is th»u hast the bulk ofa little whalpie o- my leaven in your guts, it widabeen four good bannock and a fcone, and a faird ourSunday‘s dinner, fae wad it een, but an ye keep areeking houfe aa a rocking cradle three eleven yearsas I hae done, lefs o’ that wad fair you baggity beaft ittais, maire that I bore thee, now bear ye that my dow.The next exploit was an adHon at law agun'd thegocdman of ft5ulr edge, a farmer who lived near by,that kept fheep .'nd fwine, his Iheep came do^n andbroke the yards and ate up their kail: the wild hares,they thought belonged to the fme man as they rantoward&.his honfe whf.n they were hunted ; the fwinecame very often in and about their houfes, feekiugfilh guts or anv thing they c mid i;et, lo it happenedthe . one of t,heir children fitting eafing itfelf, one ofthe fwine tumbles it over anu bites apiece out of hechil i s backfide thewhole town rofein an uproar, andaner Grunkie as^tluy called her,i they catehed her!and took her be¬fore- rdf* Wil'y,Vv ill takes an axand cuts two orihree hi*he* off her long nofe. now fays Willy, sitrow 1 have made ti;e ibmething Chrittieji like, thouhad lie a Ion..- mouth and noie b.tore it wad a fright¬ed a verv de ri to look at ye ; but now ye’re fac’dlik;*a iit'lo horfe or cow the poor fow ran homeroaring toi blood and wanting the nofe, w! ich cauf-ed Muir-edge to warn them, in before my Lord; fothe wives that had their tail eaten appeared firft i®the coart, complaining againft Muir-edge indeedary Lord., Muir edge is not a good man, when he’sfic an ill neighbour, he keeps black hairs and whitehares little wee brown backed hares wi‘ white arfes,and loofe wagging horns, de muckle anes loups o’erthe djke and eats a de kail, and de little anes wi‘ dewaog,ng horns creeps in at our water gulh holes an’does de like ; when we cry pifue they rin awa? hameto Muir-edge, but Ml gar my colly haudem by de fit,and I’ll had’em bjrde horn, and pu’a’ de hair aff‘em and fend him hame waring de skin as he didwi‘ Sowen Tammy‘s wee Sandy for codding o’ his* peafe. he took de poor laddies coat, a fae did he ecn.A well then, faid mv Lord, what do you fay, butcall in wife Willy. ' .in he comes, A well my I. ord, I (hjll fuppofe anye were a low, and me fitting c —g, and you tobite my arfe fudna I tak amends o’ ; ou for that;Gd ray Loid ye wadna hae lie a bit out o’ your arfetor twentie merks, ye maun juft gar Muir*edge gieten merks t» buy a plaifler iw heal the poor bitwean‘s arfe again V. ell laid, Willy laid my Lord,^’ut who puts on the fotv's nofe again ? A fiirs myLord laid Willy- Ibe’s honeiUr like wanting it*, andfile 11 bite nae mair arfes wi t, and gin ye had h»ne anofe as lang as ’he low had ye'd been obliged to onybody tVad cut a piece aff t,A gentleman ceming' pall near their town,' sfkedcneef their wives v. hi re their college Hood, faidlheLive me a ihilling acd 1*11 Ihew you both Tides of it,he gives her a fhillhlg, thinking to fee fome curiousught, now there s one fide of your Ihilling, and litreis the other.and it’s mine now-P A' R T. III.&TOW Wife Willy was fo admired for his juft judg?.ment in editing off the fow‘s nofe, that my Lordin « moekin|jf manner, made I dm burly bailie of Buck-hine. Lang Sandy was provoft, and John Thrums theweaver, Was dean of guild, but Witty fcppie haday the cafting vote in a4 their courts and eontroverfiesThere happened one day a running hoi fe to ftandat one of their doors, and a child going about, thehorfe trampled on the child’s foot, which eaufedthe poor child to cry, the mother came running ina paffion ; crying a w»e be to you for a ‘orfe it ereye wts born of a wowan, filthy barbarian brute itt‘ue is, jetting your muckle iron lufe on m? bairn‘swee fitlie, odd tlir,1‘llrive the hair outc your head, grip-,ping the horfe bythe mane, and thetwa lugs, eulfing hischafts as if he hadbeen * fellow crea-sture, crying, Be-go^laddie, 1‘11 gar yougood, Mi tak you"•s*before Wife Willythe b*ilie, and he will cut aff your hand wil de ironlufe, and dan you will be cripple, am gang throughthe k'tntry on a barrow, or on twa (iiuie ftaffs likeRab the Randy, an u meal-pock about your neck ; Herneighbour wife hearing and feeing what paft, cried,A ye fool taupy, what gars you fay that a -erfe wasfcorn o’ a woman, do you think dnt a ‘orfe has a fedderor a inidder like you. oiyne, or ony ither body about.A what way do they comi to the warld dan ? A yefool taupy, divea tliey vhalp like the loufes, aea old ‘orfe hobbles on anither anes buck, and dat( at )nor yet grow Tick, nor nae body kill you 5 ye4re thebell Lord I ken on earth, for we thought a‘ to bemade dead men and lodgers, you‘re wifer than a thewit dies in Fife.There was in Bucky-hnrhowr, a method when theygo,t a hearty drink, that they Went dow n to d«mce a-mong the boats, one, two, or three of the.oldeft wentinto a boat to fee the reft dance; wdien e‘er they ad-mi tted a burgher there was always • dance. One daythey admitted ttgliedRob Thomfon. from the idaodofMay, an* after he was admitted they got account fromWife Willy that giied Rob was a witch which, madejhem all flop their dancing, and Rob was cried on tomake anfwer to this weighty matter. Gly‘d Hobcried none of you (hall ftir a fit for two hours, I‘fewarrand you : fo Rob fpang‘d and jump'd over toeboat feveral times and put them in great terror, fom<cried, O ‘as i‘ the air, and then they cried they favhim i‘ the air hinging, fo that Rob was obliged to g<back to the May, and carry coals to the light houfe.It was reported that gly’d Rob was born in Buckt■and fliat his father was Willy Thomfon‘8 fon, wbc( to )was bar.ifli’d for a (leve to the Mayy to carry coals;he would not tak with him, on account he had butae eye. Aitecwthat there was no more dancing atadmittingr of burgers ; but the old ulual way of fcaterumple, and then drink until they were aluiofl blind.Upon the Rood day, four young duck'- lafles wentaway early in the morning with there creels full offilh, and about an ile from the to.vn, theyfaw comingdown a brae like a man driving a bead:, when theyearns neat Tardy-Tib fay.-., ’tis a man driving a bigmauksn Tib Hang her creel and fiih away, the otherthree ran another way, and got clear; they faid itwas a horned devil. Tib told the frightfome Rory,an ! many ran to fee the poor cadger man and hisafs) driving the auld mauken- The fifliers look onall maukens to be devils and witches, and if they butfee a fight of a dead mauken, it lets them a trembling.The fiflier lafles look with difdmin on a farmers daugh¬ter, ang a country Ihflcs, they call them muck-byersand fherney-taird jades.The bucky lads and lafies when they go to gatherbait ten ftran£,e ftories about Witches Ghofts, Wd-( 23 - )ly with the Wilp, and the Kelpy. Fairies and Mau.kens and boggles all forts.The Ghofts like old hoi fes, go all night for fearthey are. feen, and be made to carry fcate or fifli. *rbe carted; and witches are the rarft kind of devils,and mak ufeof cats to ride upon, or kill kebbers, andbefofris, and fail over leas in cockle'fliells. and witchthe lads and lafl’es and difubles bridegrooms. As forWillvandthe Wifp he is a fiery devil, and leads peo¬ple offtheir read in order to drownthera, forhe fparksiometitnes at our feet, and then turns before with hiscandle as if he were two or three mile's befoife us,many a good boat has Spunkie drown’d; the boatscoming to land in the nigiit-time, they obftrve a lightoff the land, and fet in upon it and are drown’d.The Kelpy is a lie devil, he roars before a l®fs atfea, and frightens both young and old upon thefiiore. Mfairies are terrible troublefome, they gangdancing round foucks lums, and rin through thehouf-es they haunt and play odd ti icks, and lift new bornbairns from their mothers, snd none of them arelafe to ly with tneir mothers, a night or two afterthey are born, ynlefs the mother gets a pair of men’sbreeches under her head for the firft three nights ;when the Fairies are frighted they wi.» leave an oldftock with the woman, and whip, away the child.One tried to burn an old hock that the Fairies leftin the cradle but when the fire was put on, the oldftock jumped on upon a cat and up the lum. Mauk-ens are moft terrible, and have bad luck, none willgo to fea that day they lee a Mauken. or if a wretch¬ed bod puts in a Mauken’s fit in their creels, theyneed not lift them that day, as it will be bad luck,either broken backs or legs, or arms, or hear badaccounts at the boats at fea.They are terrified for all forts of boggles both byland and fea.( 24 )The MINTS TER-nnd MaffeI-Mou‘d IIARRIE.- MuflW.Mou d idarrie, the fkull maker, whofe lugwas nail'd to a tree near my Lord's garden, for cut¬ting young laughs, for to make creels and fliulls of,He alumed a head drefs as he had beea the devil, andwent and play'd his tricks in the night time, whichfrighted the whole town until the time he was oatch-ed bv my Lord's piper. He was then fent for to theminifrer, and was obliged to put on his frightful drefs,with the appearance of two horns on his head; theimni&er rebuked him, but he had the aflurance to tellthe minifter, that he only firighted his own t«wn, butthat he frighted the whole parilh, by teliing them torepent or be d d, this is your gate o't ftii; fo Imade them repent by fright, and I think I fud be paidl»y your honour for't, as you tell me fir about myLord's faughs which I fuffered for, if your honour'slug had been there you would not have got fo eafy offftir, your lug is as lang as my grey cats, fo l bid youfarewel uatil our nest meeting.F I N IS.