I A NEfiftT AND DIVERTINGiDIALGGU E,j Both Serious and Convical| That pajfed the other day between a notedhoe Maker and his Wife,|of-*i Living in this Neighbourhood,\ietf down in Short-hand by a nimble pen-manone of his bon companions.Entered according to Order •A I^ew and DivertingDIALOGUE,Wife. T Wonder where my bungling, cob1 fkul, fapnodle, rambles at this time of ntgliamong his drunken companions I’ll warrant yo«Well, I’ll ftroll the ftreets about to find him outfome gin-fhop or ale houfe, or other entertaiithis animal, whilft I, and his poor children waibread.—In fhort I’ll find out, and if I meetkind fpark by the way. I’ll kill two birds with o*ftone, graft a pair of large horns upon his beanand if he gives me a teller, then I fhall have fbrrrthing to drink tea with my goffips and neighbou[Crifpin, by this time, at a noted houfe for huxningofbeer, was thumping the pot upon the talcalling for liquor ]Landlord be quicker.Bring us more liquor.We {hall never be hanged for debt.[She hears him, and in (he goes.3Hey-day ! Mr Mend-all, Mr Spend-all, Mr Gorfor-nothing at-all, bad in bed and worfe up } ra.ing. raving, roaring for more liquor, whilft I, cyour poor children a; home, have neither fite icandle, but in a ftarving condition.Hulband. Good wife be pacified, don’t expyourfelf and me before company Thefe are allcuftomers, I work for them daily, and they helpto bafinefs.W. put you filly Oaf! they’ll fpeak you fairynur face, while you treat them, and laugh in tlflecves at jour folly when they leave you.H. Pray wife fit down, we’JJ have but one poti more. It was Robin, Tom, and Harry brought meere to fpend three fartherings a-piece.W. Curfe on them and you together, thefe pre*i fences have ruined many families.Three farthings is the challenge of many a drunken'll Till three farthings will fcarce pay the {hot. (Cot,H. Pray, my dear, be good natured, the land lord'! and land-lady are very civil obligingpeople.W The de’il give them thanks for their civility,M if they give you good words for your good money|| fpending; do but afle them to truft you, and feeI how they’ll change their tone and looks too.H. My dear, can you blame them for being cour-1 teous to their cuftomers? every body ftiould promote| their own trade as well as they can.W. No, you drunken fot, I don’t blame them butI you, and every idle fot that is deluded by their fmoothI tongues to beggar and ftarve their families, and let:l the landladies flourifii in their gold rings, and gold|> chains, while wc want breadH My dear, you rave; fhould not every body reapI! the fruits of th$ir labour ?W. Yes, you dog, but let the land-ladies labourI as I do, fpin, wafti, fcovrer, and carry heavy burdens,and not lit on their brawny buttocks, and cry nowand then you arc welcome firs, when he’s fpent all.H. ’Well, I find you are fpiteful to the land-la¬dies, moderate your pafiion. J tpok no money tonight, bat my land lady will truft me a pot of drink,to be friends with my wife.With that the land-lady fteps up h^ftily, and faysfio, maftcr, you have had enough now, be ruled by( 4 )your wife, and go\ ho£ie ilone witli her, my bn-^ •ihall light yc.W. See there-Swell-tub, was you at cards, orIkktles ? or had a whore along with you, you migi'tdrink wMle-yciu had a tdiler, but now ycur Wianey isgene, ybu can’t betrutted a full pot.H. Piay Landlord, bring a full por, I fhalLfoal apair of llibes to-rtibrrow, and then I’ll conic and payyou. ' .W By Joye if he ddes, I’ll threw it in your face jand break all the pots, glaffes. and windows in the ftHoufe—^1-hen work you drunken dog to p^y for ft. UH Well I find the devil himfclf is not able totame a fhre-w; here landlord is a fhihing that neverfaw the fun, take your reckoning, I’ll go home withthis fhe-devil, but I'll mike her rue the time fhe folTlowed me to the ale-tfoafe. (t he landlord fiiearsand bows to him fayidg'. ftt down while the palfioftis over,’tis for yotir good, I fhould be glad to fee youteconciltd' before you leave my hotife.)W.! Death and fufy you fenfelefs booby, if youhad any guts in yoiir b¥ainsy witk half an eye youmight perceive how this whedrihg difTcrhWItig- bitchimpofes on your ignorance,now he fees more money,you are-welconre id ftityV bdr -before- it was praymailer go home with your wife.H. ‘So 1 wiil. for !'&nd;‘I tb7«dr h'ive ■rio' Ohietnefshere; but if once I la/ hold or fny flirbup HI Hquoryour hide,1 and btft yduV fides With efbdW gfcafe,till 1 make you repent"-hobgihg rife llWb a 'feVpC'ht'wherever I go.W - Do if-you'dsre, yotrnitrfmtitiug’ idld'drunkenfor while there’s a lsddle,rpt)ic)ter, broom, plate ortrencher, you lhall have tHtm at your loggerhead.'vjOfJS b*y.*\v^yfr yo^'wof’t, r.efr^ aj your Lord buJMilter ? ' ' ■ »natural M'onftcr, cruel.Brute,. Ty-y thing worftr.jl' H. But you know the Command, Wives obey your{iutbaridS; in all things.I i W. Rather,i pnt, iDevii, ti jMV. Well and you know, that Hufbands are tolove and oherifla their W.t• H. That I think we do, when we chaftife ar;d ^of-||k£1 them ,for their Sins^ his a plam token of ourilfevfc and eltefem, to reclaim them when .tjfey do a-■ pvs^-yoir know 1 only beat the other Part 6. my-jtll whdti l Itiik-e you. , .ir;,i| W. O Mr Wife-acre, Prty;for the fuHtfe heat the»thtr Part of yovaidi, and ut iucn like Ch^iity beH Bnt if you wtere as near to me as my right eye,. , - -----I»rmy right hand, I am tp.pjuck you put, cut you oh,iind caft ybtf from me, when you become offenhve.1 W. Out profane wretch! r,o more chopping, ofDis-mify irtd' Logic, I know you vv„u!d fain cut mefefrdrh your giais, and your la!s, but I'll have aMaintenance lor me and my children pr Fll haver bapfsm.Goa!, yo»| 1 i vyui fo.ML. lio’Tf; good wife, be net fo hor, I am fuVejVoij and'yPur Chi^tn waHt forKOthing,(j W. No fwel!-tub, but that we arp fpnfiblc weij:an’t hivebdydue; ana the landladies too.IH Why han’d you Tea eveery monfnj,(Soflipa round you, with fu-U liberty to he, Uauder,and tell lies of ysuf neighbour siW. Y©u He fiieep’s-head, we fcave^ofily a littfhattnlefs chat, and wa(h away forrow with a difti ainnocent Jiqaor, on a cold morning at the expenctof five fanhings, while you, fots, fool away a.many fliil ings come home drunk, beat your wifeand fee your neighbours in an uproar.H. Nay, goo ! wife, fince you talk of an Uproar,Ipray, who bred jth.e 1'umult ?bout nay ears the othernight, when you got drunk in tha gin fhop, and theppr.er bio,ugh[ you on his back, and a thouiand boys,holjo.wiiig 4^t,ry jp.W. Bafe, linking, -degrading rogue, l en!y tooka drana with a friend, and being falling it made mefiek, not drunk* you fcoundrel dog! I have been:an honed Wife to you, but I’ll be even with you forexpofing me, y«, you dog ! J will fo.H A woman’s revenge is the devil; but, furewife, I hope that you don’t intend to make me aCucJioU-W. Perhaps that is not to do, firrah i (lick a Pinthere.H- Be that as it will. I’m fure there’s no Man hagbeen more conllant to their marriage bed than I havebeen.W. Yes, when you come home drunk to deep andfnore. and lie like hog or a drone; for 1 know-no difference between a male and a female bed^fellow fince Wedlock.PI. Sure wife, you won’t difgrace me before my,ne’ghbours ; han’t you had a child once a-Year evertfir.ee we were marriedW. Cry your merdy Gaffer Fumbler, there’s manyare beholden to their neighbours; there’s another.bone for you pick.H. Pr’thee Joan, dont take fo much pains to coo*Vince me that you are an arrant whore.W. You lie Iheep’s head i I am as honeft a wo¬man as any in the Parilh, tho’ I fay it that (houldnot fay it, perhaps you think all women like your-felf.H. Why, your fine difcourfe is enough to makeone believe my horns are as long as Stags.W. Why then ftay at home you jealous Boobyand mind your own bufmefs, and lave me the labourof getting one to do your drudgery.H. Somebody was t’other night—What was Snipthe Taylor doing when i peep'd in at the Keyhole!W. Fool, ’tis many an honeft Man’s Fate to ftandPimp to his own wife. 4H. As fafliipnable as it is, I’ll never bear with it,for if ever 1 catch this fcurvey dog.I’ll lop off his earsWith his ©wn Shears.W. No more ^^hat rafcal; for as often as youramble in feather-bed-lane, the Taylor and I will— feu may gudfswhat I mean.*H. Good Wife, I hope you are not in earned,you know I never go to feather-bed-lane, butwhen bufmefs calls me there.W But, firrah, I dont like your Bufinefs there,I well remember, and a body would think you ne-"Ver wou’d forget, wheu you heel-piec’d Mifs Pru*sfhoes, and rewarded you with the Crankcums,when l pawn’d every thread to get you falivated.—The noife «f dear Doftor, no more of your blue(tone, founds ftill in my eara.„ ( «.) .  H. Ay, but wife, you know ’tis Gentleman liketo be touched fometimes.W. Fgad, then by my confent fuch ‘gentleRiertflioitfd have horns as high as the Monument.H. Aye, but wife tlii wou’d be running to thedevit headjong once.W. Very true, love, but vou know Saiice tha^is good for a ^oole* is goqd for a Gantjcr.^H. My dear, I own it, and thereforeSince we have done amifs,Let us amend ^nd fcek etefnal Blifs.^W. With all my foul, here is both hind & heart.If you’ll refprrn, I will in every part;We’ll daily pray for God’s alFnting GracejThe world we know is no*abiding placeThen let us pray for.virtue, pqace and love,And God will blefs us here, likewife#a,bove.■ .* "P I N . I . 5. *■ '