A N* A C C O U N TOF A MOSTI Surpiifing Savage GirJ,[Vho was caught wild in the Woods. ofChampagne, a Prorinee in Francl.I ^Containing a true and faitbfpl ..Narrative; of many curious and inn:!;ei<;ing particulars refpecling this;: ut'. derful, Phenomenon.TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENL-.j.EDINBURGH:Printed by J. Morren, Cowgatc*AN ACCOUNTOf a Surprizing Savage Girl.ONE evening, in the month of Sej^tember, 1761, a girl nine or toyeajri old being preffed, as it woul!|feem, by third, entered about the tvrjfilight into -Songi, a village four or fivtleagues fouth of Chalons in Champagna.a province in France. She had nothinnon her feet, her body was covered witiirags and /kins, her hair with a gourileaf, and her face and hands were 3black as a negro’s Sbfe was armed witJla fliort baton, thicker at one end that:the other very like a club. Thofe whflfii ftobferved her, took to their heels, cryj'ing out, There is the devil. Bad indeedher drefs and colour might well fu*ge|this idea to the country people,and h«pjpieft were they who could fooneft fecurttheir doors and windows; but one o»them, thinking that the deyil was afraliof dogs, fet loofe upon her a bull do:with an iron collar The little favagjfeeing him advance in a fury, kept hoground without tiincuung, and grafpe<|her little club with both hands, ftretclycd herfelf to one fide, in order to givigreater icopc to the blow. Perceivinjthe dog within her reach, (he difchargeflfuch a terrible blow on his head as laidhim dead at her feet. Elated with hervi&ory, {he jumped feveral times overthe dead carcafe of the dog. Then flic1 tried to open a door, which net beingable to effedt, Ihe ran back into the coun¬try towards a river, and mounting a tree,i fell faft alleep.A French nobleman happened to bethen athiscountryhoufeof Song i, where,^ having heard various accounts of the1 little favage that had appeared on hisl grounds, he gave orders to catch her;and particularly to the fliepherd, whohad difeovered her firft in a vineyard..One of the country people, by a veryfimple thought, but which was attribut -ed to his great knowledge of the man¬ners and cuftoms of favages, conjectur¬ed that fhe was thirfty, and advifed toplace a pitcher full of water at the foot1 of the tree on which Ihe was fitting, fha,after looking fharply around, to fee whe¬ther any body observed her, came downand went to drink at the pitcher, plung¬ed her chm into the water ; but fome-thing having ftartled her, fhe regainedthe top of the tree before they had timeto apprehend her. This firft ftratagemhaving failed, the fime p.ttjfon aigaid^ad-' •j jed to place a woman and fome chiiA'■ ’ r< n near the tree, becaufe ftvages eom'only are not fa fliy of them as of men ?.• I he bad them above all, {hew her a' * - udly air and a fmilmg countenanee.' dire&ions were complied with; a;.n>an with a child in her arms, canae; king near the tree, carrying differento; of roots and two fifliesin her hands,which fhe held out to the favage, who de-firous to have them, defcended a branchor two but went back again. The wo¬man ftili continued her invitation withan affable, pleafant countenance, accom¬panied with all poffible figns of friend-fliip fuch as laying her hand upon herbread;, as if to, allure her that ihe lovedher, and \vould db her; no harm!; thefavage was at lad emboldened to comedown the tree, and receive the xootsiandhflies; but the woman enticing her fromthe tree, by retiring infepfibly, gavetime to the men who were lying in waitfor her, to advance .and feize her. Shenever mentioned any thing .of the griefand anixiety {he felt on being taken, norof the efforts die made to efcape butwe may eafiiy imagine both. The fhep-herd, arid the red. who had caught mdbrought''her to the caIHe, catfied herfkft into the kitchen, ti!i M.fltouM be informed of her arrival : ThfiTibiShimg there that,appeared to driHer detention, wis iome fowls'^ifeh t 'i-book aras drelfi itg ^ at thefs (he he w wit ftmuch amazing agility, that the-aftontlh-ed doak beheld one >n her teeth'befa ebd imagined fixe had readied it 1 Mt d’-bqjin«Y arrived in the mean -tiine, andfeeing.wbatshe waseating, caiufetftogiveher and unlkmnea'rabbic; ‘sh^'««bmtlyGripped off the'ifttiii; and devoured vtii ffffpferirhb c©nfide«i& her thwt wereof opinbnuhat site wasaferlut bine* ^eaivof age. ' Shecfeemed biack,' as fihaw^kPr.eady faid; but it appeared; after wash-ingldi^rMeverai times that she vvaaJ na-turailyefeiiite, as sheffiilcantinuese 'f heyoijfeirKedi like wife; that her fingers, and'in . pabefeuiar, her thumbsi werd very/large , in proportion to the reft'©f herhandtwh;dr was othbrwife neat eix-oagh,''Andtashisday, h ertinmffw ret ably tame-what oftlmJargtnefs. By »her accoufft,thefeiatgefft^g,thumbs were very ufe-fui-co- her': during her wild life in thewoods.; fear, when she had a mind tog*from onetree to another, if thobnaac hesof then two trees were but a.ftnuib di-i i( 6 1uTnce, and though of no greater thicfc-nefs than her finger, fhe would place herrhumbs on a branch of the tree in which*hc happened to be, and by their meansiprmg to the other, juft like a fquirrel.Irom this we may judge of the ftrengthof thole thumbs ofhers, which wereablen this manner to fuftain the wholeweight of her body in fpringing. Shewas commit,ed to the care of theffhep*tftird, who dwelt near the caftle, and re-< ommended by M. d’£ginoy to his ut->noft care, who promifed to reward himnsndfomeiy for his p»in». We may wellconceive, that it would require a confi-tlerabfe deal of time, and iome hard u*fago to wean her from her former habits,and to temper her fierce and lavage difi-pofition ; and there is reafon to believetfeafc fhe was very .cloi'ely,confined in this *houfe, tor the found means to make hplesm the walls, and in the tiles of the roof,upon which ftie would run with as-muchunconcern as upon the ground, neverI’uftVring herfelf to be retaken withouta gteat deal of trouble, and palling fbartfully through fnaall holes that theycould fcarcely behave their, eyes, afterthey had deen her do it. It was thusthat fhe efcapcd once, among feveral o-ther times, out of this houfe, in a moftfevereftorm offroftami fnow ; oh whichoccaiion, after making good her efcapefhe betook herfelf for (helter to a tree,—The confufion, which the familv wasthrown into was great, who, after fearch-ihg thehoufe^to no purpofe, refolved atlafl to look for her without, where theyfound her perched on the top of a hightree ; from whence however they werelucky enough to prevail on her to comedown.I myfelf have been an eye-witnefs tofome inftances of her eafe and fwif^nefs,than which nothing could be more fur-prifing ; and yet what I faw, was butthe remains of her former agility, whichlong ficknefs, aad the want ofpratticefor many years had greatly impaired.Without having feen it. it is hardlypofliblc to imagine her Angular and a-gile manner of running; even for lever-al years after fhe was caught, (he couldovertake the game ;n the chaceMademoiselle le Blanc, (the name bywhich fhe is now called,) remembersperfedly well her having pa fled a rivertwo or three days before fhe was taken;and we fli.dl fee by and by. that this isone of the mofl certain fa<As of her hif*,5:rT* She was then accompanied by gwjMack girl, a little oldex nor .her-|| but whether that was her natural•tiour, qr whether (he was only painted,ike /<? is unqertainp they ^ere.fwimroing acjofs. a .riyer, and. .diving,^hen they .were., obfenred' y a gentleman of that neighbourhoodTHp, ieeip^; nothing butt.t^eir. hcjads^then appeared a.bp^d,.thc water,ijptook them, as he fays himfeIf,/or twowater-cocks, and fired at them from, agopef diila.n.ger n Lucltiiy, however, |ie.thein?,.but the^oport made.t^e-mihivri ami retire farther off.on,her part had afd^dneach hand, and an eel in her teethAiitff having gutted and wafned them,!thejfce, or.^tfer d«ivo^red.'fiaif^d,. theythe^pcin/c ^ the?c^unir.yif /ikying le%the river at,%ir,back,; ’ hpoi^a£eivfr;B/<W. peyceive^/>haglet «n^e group <£which, no dpubtjhad beendr^pi fpm^.p^rfop. vrBeing ^pprehenfty.e lcf| 'hercompanion ihraid deprive her of this,uttle treasure, fhe ilrerehed out her handto take it up, upon which the other withher baton.: .ft^uck,her fr a 4rokeon the /^ad, that fhc lod the ufe of itf 9 )(for fome rime She had. however* or: much ftrength left, as with the weapon,in her hand, to return the blow on theforehead of her antag®nift, with fuch: aforce as to knock her to the groundfcreatning frightfully. The chaplet whsthe reward ot her victory*-of which fliemade heifelf a braclet,. . Touched, inthe mean time, with companion for hea;companion, whofe wound bled verynauch,* ihe ran in fearch of frog^, andfinding one, {tripped off its {kin with hernails, and covered the wound After thisi they feparated, fhe that was woundedtaking the ro*d rowauds -the; river, andthe vidoridus ie5 towards hongi.There it much uncertainty as to whathappened to thefe t#o-children, previ-.ous to their arriving indShampagne : U| Blanc’s memory, off that head, beingsvery indiflmfb and ebnfuied.j I fliali.relate, however, every particular I- liijtyeb«en able to tearm from her, frohi wh idvI {hall endeavour tb form fouee probabi'.cOnjedfures about her native covuitry,and the adventures that may havebrought her into Champagne.' But toreturn to her.hiftory.The fpueaking cries he uttered vftrVher throat were very {rightful. The uioftc 10 )terrible of all were uttered by her on theapproach of any enknown perfon .withan intention to take hold of her, atwhich flie difcoTcred a horror that ap¬peared altogether extraordinary. Of thisfbe once gave a ftrong inflance ; A manvrho had heard of her abhorrence ofbeing touched refolved Revenhdefs toembrace her in Ipke of the danger thathe ran in going tao near her. She hadin her hand at the time apiece of rawbeef which flic was devouring with greatfatisfa&ibn. The inftant ihe iitw theman near her arm, flic gave him fuehaviolent ftroke «nthe face^ both with herhand, and the piece of flelh flie held init, that he was fo ftunned and blinded,as to be fcarce able to keep his feetThe favage at the fam j time believingthe ftrangers around to be fo many ene-mie«, who intended to murder her, ordreading, perh tps, punifhment for whatfit* had done, fprung out of their hand*towards a window, through which.fliehad a view of trees and a river intend¬ing to jump from it , and fo make hercfcape which the certainly would havedone. if they had not again caught holdof her.. She appeared particularly fond offilii,either from her natural tafte, or from,her acquiring by conftant pra&ice, fromher childhood, the faculty of catchingthem, in the water with more eafe thanflic could the wild game by (peed offoot She retained this inclination.for catching fifli in the water two yearsafter her capture, One day happeningto be brought to the caftleofSongi, (heno fooner perceived a door open whichled to a large pond, when flie immedi¬ately ran and threw hcrlelf into it, dreftas (he was, fwam round all the fides ofit. and landed on a fmall Ifland, wentin fearch of frogs, which (he ate at lei-fure, This circumftance puts me inmind of a comical adventure which M,Ic Blanc told me herfelfWhen any company vifited M.d.Epig-noy at bongi. he ufed to fend for thegirl, who was become more tame, andbegan to difcovsr much good humour,and a foftnefs and humanity of difpofi-tion, which the favage life fhe had beenobliged to follow for felf-prefervation,had not been able to efface. One day,as file was prefent at a great entertain¬ment in the caftle, obferving none ofthe delicacies fhe efteemci every thing• '.( 12 )being cooked, fhe ran out like- light¬ning, and traverfing all the ditches andponds, returned with her apron full offrogs, which fhe fpread very liberallyon the platCs of all the guefts, and was'quite overjoyed at having found fuchgood cheer We may eafily figure tbourfelves the confufion and bmflle thisoccafioned among the gu fts, every one*endeavouaing to avoid or throw awaythe frogs that were hopping all about.The little favage. quite furprifed at thefmall value they feemed to fet on herdelicate fare, carefully gathered themup, and threw them back again on theplates and table The fame‘thing hash mpcned feveral times in different com¬paniesIt was with the utmoft difficulty thatthey hei4 ’ off eating raw -fleffi.&ndby degrees reconciled her to" chokedvictuals The fir fit rials fhe made to ac-cuiloni- her fell to vl dluuUs die# wirhTalt,and to drink wine, cofi her her teeth,which, together with her nails; wheidpre-leiVdd- as a curiofiry' She recditeredindeed, a new fet of teeth juft like ours,but hurt her hdalt-h, which'continues tobe extremely delicate. There was Butlittlejpcebfibility of j^reTdrving'her tlwfe;her heft ftate of health being a fickiylanguor, which feemed to be carryingher to the grave. A phyfician was fentfor to fee her, who, being at a lofs whatto preferiber, hinted, that it was nacef-fa0 to indulge her now and then witha bit of raw flefh. Accordingly theygave hey fbme, but (he cotilii, by thattime, only chew k, and fuck the bloodout of it, which relieved her. It wasWith great trouble that Are began to re¬cover, and accuftom herfelf to cookedvuftnals. She was:ithen placed in a con¬vent, at Chidfrns; where ftife began toitnprove, and be .pretty expert in feve-ral female Works, and her education.8h6Thk'd Tiyed f6mfe‘ yeArs irt that con¬sent, arid hiid a^rpTied for • permiffion toMTume the- yeilp but 'ddtlceiyihg a dif-guft at the hpufe', and btbng adhamed tolive with j'.eonlc who had feen her inher wild efthteurnTriediately after ftie was'caught, lr.rd,whcn-"uncmii^ed; ftie ob-tafned lelt^’.to*'remhve to a cdh'Vdht htSt. Mailffiold .‘She dM hdfhere, die Duke of Orleans taking herunder his protection; brought her toPark, “placed -her iri 'thk1' tibvent of theWp'veflel CdthdUqhes, iriAbe ^i^AAnne, and went thither himfdf to feeand conrerfe with her, that he mightknow what progrefs fhe had made inher education. Being afterwards re -moved to another convent, Bill underthe prote&ion of that,prince, Jhe fellfrom a window and received a violentftroke on the head, which occafioned along difoder that attacked her. Herlife was difptired of, but by the kindalfiftance of her noble patron, (he wasconfiderablv relieved, it is impofllbleto exprefs the melancholy refledions ofthis unhappy girl, onbeing by the deathof the prince, left weak and languiftiingwithout either relation or friend to takecare of her among thefe' grangers; atthe fame time, in cafe) of her recoveringftie forefaw what neglect, and how manymortifications file mu ft undergo, fromperions who had no profpect of beingrepaid their advances on her account.It was in thefe difagreeable circurm-dances that I .faw her for the firft timein November 177g. They hardly weremended when le Blance had recovered asmuch firength as to be able to come toherfelfto tell me,that>theiDuke theofDr-leans, the inheritor of his father's vir¬tues, had :undertaken to, pav the ninemonths boai^d that ^ad.fi|Ten due, forher fmce her father’s death, and that (hehad befides Tome reafon to hope to beput on that prinoe’sJift, for a yearlypenlion of 200 livres for life ; adding,at the fame time, that until, this iaftpoint (liould be fettled, which could nothappen till the month of January fol¬lowing die had accepted of a fmall a.partment, which a pcrfon had offeredher. But how, fays 1, do you propofeto fubfift in this appartmenr for twomonths and perhaps more in your fick-ly condition. For what purpofe, (an-fwered fhe, with a firmnef* and confi¬dence that futprifed me.) hath Godbrought me from among wild beafts,and made me a Chriftian ? not furelyafterwards to abandon and fuffer me toperifii for hunger ; that is impollible: Iknow no other father but him, his pro¬vidence will therefore, fupport me. This ingenious reply, compenfates forthe pains 1 have taken to compofe thisrelation, which 1 fhatl conclude withfbme of her own obfervations vvith re¬gard to the firft part of her life. .She has no rememberance of her pa¬rents. or any other perfpn, and fcarce-ly the country itfelf, except that theyhad no houfes, but holes m the ground.f i6 )tkat (he frequently mounted trees to a-void wild beafts, and that her countrieswere covered withliiow: tkat when theywere carried away by the fiiip, on ac¬count of f&me attempts they made to e-feape, the two little favapes Were con¬fined in the hold of the fhip ; but thisprecaution had like to have proved fatalboth to them and the (hip’s company.For, here they 'formed a fcheme offcratching a hole ip the:(hip with theirnails, by which they might make theirefcape into their^avourite element, thewater The crew, however,, luckily dif-covered their opeFatibns, in time to-pre¬vent them', and^fc^ipC (hipwreck f hrsattempt made thenvchaiii the* two littlefavagesV'fo'ak^o put kout of their pow¬er to «tempt the likd again.It appears that after the efcape'oHhefetwo children from the ftlip wreck;heingthen incapable-of a^ v other-Views'thanthofe of liherty aud lelf prefervation,the'y purfited'hd“Other rOutrhaii’chailceand neceifity preiented. At night ac¬cording td 19 Bieftii; 'fh% faw more d-i-ifimtl^!thari in the ‘day* (whichv how-evdr, mud not be ttnderhood di terally,Thougb-hef eyfe do;MU re fain -fo mew hat•dfithatl faboh^iTt^ 1 / ' ...I fcarch of food. The fmall game whtc^[they catched, andthe roots oitrees, \feretheir provilioMs. The trees -were like-iwife,their Ueds or rather th^ir cradlesIfor they fleept reu^di^itithem, eitherfttj-tin or riding -in fome, branch, offering.: themfelv^ to bo rocked by the winds^,land eXpofed to the inclemency of th<^vreather, without any other precaution^than fecilrinj; th«mieives with one handrland .vhpg the. other b,y way of pillow.The largdt nvtrs did not flop vh^irijoprney by day or'night, for they, ai-^ways eroded tfeem wjifioiit any dread^Sometimes they entered tor the fake efdrinking, which they performed by dip-pipg.iiy- their chin r.p to the mouth, andfucking the water like horfes. But theynu,n trequemiy entered the rivers toar^cVthejf^nti^qT'aw at t-he bot|a^,twinch they jouvglrt, on ihpre, to open,likin, ar/d eat them.rflafcir.g,vh iij^d •, to "J*}}kw,: IqW fo: brieve &poinbie for her :o make her way oat ofa deep river in tbs way f! c mentioned,:without the a;!!fiance of her hands and;fueh ,afgffa«jce phe ^iy[ayf ,,n>o,ufijed garthg furfaee, a\,ry Jit* e orcath .ibciqg.;fufficienffor that purpofe, havitig givenah example only four years ago. Ofthis ihe fhewed me the way, ftandingupright, with both arms held ftraightup, as it holding fomechiiig above thewhrer, having the end of her handker¬chief between her teeth, 1 ike a fi(h breath¬ing at the fame time foftly, but withoutflopping whth each corner of her mouthalternately, as a {moaker, breathes withone fide of his mouth, while he holdshis pipe in the other. In this way, byle Blanc's account; Hie and her compa¬nion pafled the Marne on their;way toSongi where fhe was taken,, as above-mentioned.In the year 1763, file was in a poorflate of health, having loft all her extra¬ordinary bodily faculties, and havingnothing of the favage, but a certain wild-nefs in her look, and a great appetite.The foregoing Narative ivas drawnup ftndfcr the immediate infpection ofM. tie la*. Condemine, a French gentle¬man, whofe curiufity and accuracy, inmatters of this fort is uni verfally known,and who had a particular acquaintancewith Madamoifelle le Blanc It bears theplaineft marks of truth and authority; butf.any doubts remained, the facts cou!4attefted by lining witneiles. Thei^oman herfelfvras alive inthe year 1765Irhen the tranflator and a hcots gentle-ioan, then at Paris, had feveral conver-|aiions with her.To theie two gentlemenhe related the following particulars:—•membered that the country ftie camerom was very cold, covered withnow a great part of the year: That therhildren;/there are accuftomed to therater from the moment of their birthnd learn to fwim as foon as to walk :Chat they are taught very early to climbfees; and a child of a year old there,> able to climb a tree : That the peopleive in little huts above the water,ike beavers, and fubfift chiefly byfi(h~ag. 5he herieif was To much ufed toraten,that .when {be came to France (herp&kTno/L irve without it, and was inife to plujige.inta it over head and ears,nd to continue in it, fwimming aboutnd. dividg rijks an. otter, ox any otherBaphibious animal, : ;■Ahe fappofes Hie was only about Jevenr. eight years at age when fhe was car-*led away from Iw own country : yet>y that tirae,; the had learned to fwira,oflfli, to thoot with the bo wand arrow.( 20 }to climb and to- icap ^com. bneanother like a r^aifryli-i—hbe wte tak«fup at lea, u-here the was, with other c^iidren fet in a {tide raun'd’canoe, whidwas covered* with <i d:tn that drew abouher middle like a.parfe. and preventethe water $fotp ^ettinpTfo erfi)r,‘ifhe feyjit is the ^rrar^ner .- in herrtsoihatry .nnputhe c'hddrtcn early1 ono to lea infuclT ctirtoes iri^Order1 &o accMomvthem to beatthe Tea, »whtoh - breabaro’wer them, ‘iti«tHou^h it itiair ©fremurn die eanoc, idoenoi’iitikiif.^--—Whsriffne Vas taken upthe ^-aboard a great rfbippcarniacto a warrti- country^ and fold aata'Uavethe, perfon “who {bid hat/ hawng firflpainted her ■black with a vie n. to- mak<her ^afs fpr adlave.. : :-iShe {bykTiratlier of thetCDnhtryi* froj^flwiidn-cei ihe vrzxicmned awky, than the)people them had n.o-clothing bMt Tkin^and mhke no mie of fire at all; . To thatwhen ihenc«ttem>. grande,.fhe: couldiriotbiar rhe ifirejomd hardly even die ibldfaair of a room, or th(Threath of peiTojitswho. srejiR riearldieaaf - TIhere weEe,-..fli^fays,> another fort cfineirim thjs-ciqiin-4try, who, were .bigger and ttronger thanher people^ and all covered with ?hdir;apd thofe peo]>{h -we re; at jwof wdthrhiii( ( 2.T )l^eople, amd- uied to eat /thena when they• fcuid»e$ttch«thew. : vf!Mn the ho: country to which (lie wasjirfl' carried, (lie fays, fhe was re-im*parked, and performed a very long voy-jge, during which, the reader, to whomJfie had been iolds, wanted to make herTork, pertieiilarFy, at a fort of needleIork ; he beat her, but her miflrefs,ho fhe thinks fpoke French, was veryind to her.—That the fhip having beenrecked the. crew took to the boat ; but%e, an a negro girl that was on board,ivere left to sbift for themftlves. The‘jiegro girl, she fays, could not fwira fo’yell as she, bu% she kept herfeif abovewater by taking hold of le Blanc's footiIni by this way they both got on shore,"hey then traverfed a great traot ofountry, commonllytravelling all night,nd fleeping inthe day iime on the topsf trees, ihey fubdfted upon the rootsrhich she dug out of the ground withtoer fingers, and particularly her thumb,(fvhich by that, and by the ufe she made!'pf it. in climbing, and leaping frcm onej ree to another, is.jauch larger than-ihe thumbs ©f other people. They alfohatched as much game as they could,which they eat raw with the warm bloodK*2)in ie, in tiie fame manner as a hawk cwild beaft does; and (he remembers paiticularly, that they killed a fox, of whicthey otal) fucked the blood, finding thflefh very difagreeable.She had when (he w^s caught at Songthe bludgeon above mentioned, whic(he wore in a pouch by her fide ; anbeiides, (he had a longer (lick, withthrepieces of iron at the end of it, one ithe middle, (harp and pointed, and ;hother two upon the fides hooked ? anfhe ule (he made of it, was to (tab anwild beaft that attacked her, with th(harp point; and with the hooks (he a:fifted herfelf in diming trees, by catching hold of the branches ; and fee fay!it was particularly ufeful to her in defending her againft the bears, when the;attempted to follow her up the trees.This weapon (he fays (he brought wifiher from the hot country, but the oihefrom her own. From the above particulars, which l learnt from her owimouth, I think I am able to fix with fomcertainty upon the country of which (hisa native. She has been fuppofed tobe athe Efqttimaux nation; but there isa fufficient proof to refufethis notion-, for fiiis ofa fair complexion, a fmoothlkin, an( 23 )J tvcatures w foft as thoic of an European:Whereas tine people of the Efqivimaux< nations, are by the accounts of all tra-• vellers, the uglieft men, of the harfliefland moft difagreable fearlire, and all, covered with hair She is certainly not-J iniftaken in the fituation of the country- which fee gives, for it is doubtlefs a very■( cold country ; and the people whom lie■; deferibes as livmg intke neighbovuhoodof her nation, can be no other than the4 Efquimaux : and when we add to this,what travellers tell us of a certain race■1 of people, who are fair, of fmooth ikini. and (oft features, living in the country, of Labrador, upon the eaft fide of Hud-r fon’s bay, in the neighbourhood of the. Efquimaux; we can hardly doubt but.■ ^hat MadamoiJelU k Blanc is one of thatrace of people and that her native coun-'try is the coaft of Hudfqn’s bay, con-fiderably to the northward of Nova Sco-tj*. the principal fetriemeut of the Bri---) life in North America.■ ExxRACTfrom the Baptifm Regifier ofthe Parifii Church of St Su^lice, ofshe town of Chalons in ChampagneTHE 19th day of June, in the year1762, was baptized by me, after fub-.( 2+ )fcribing Frieft, Canoa-Rugalar, Prior,,Curate bf Sf. Supliee of Chalons, in.Champagne, Marie Angelique Memmie,aged about eleven years, whofe parentsare unknown, even to the girl herlelf,who has been either born in, or tranf-planted when very young to fome iflandin America, from whence by the difpo-lition of a merciful providence, havinglanded in France, and being ftill con¬duced by the fame goodnefs of God, inthis diocefe, has been, at laft, placed un¬der the patronage bfouriliuftriousbilhop,in the Hofpital General of St Maur, in¬to which she entered the 30th of OCoberlaft; her god father being M. Memmie,le Moine, procurator of the faid hofpital,andher godmother, Damoifefelle Marie-Nicola dfHalle, governefs of the lameholpital of St. Maur, who have atteftedthe day and year as above. (So fignedMemmie le Moine,—D’ffaie,—F. Cou-terot, Chanoinereg, Frier, Core.I, after fubferibing prieft, canon-re¬gular, curate of ht. Sulplice, do certifythe prefent extraC to be agreeable to itsoriginal. Delivered at Chalons this 21 ftof OCober 175©.^ Signed,)D. SA.I5 i Frier, Care.F I W I S.