mLIPS AND HISTORYS$1 [E Y,QUERN OF SCOTS.m«wrTHOT3IK OMA XlUfV ft & Mjitoo* '/as-’ipHVIOR A 11X0 *I0MAiri T« CIlSTHaiJMITJl<10 7SOT*i« 3»T» rf)iv» ouiflo (iiv.mto odi :uiiiifi'*in) Jl ***’! »•.•*«I « tiiiw <>u il«w a bo*-»i> r-«w )i ‘in TItB »«tV/«iiti huh i oJ i9ii I'uo# c4. '1»>- I<VFR 4WP H1KTORY ',90'*t,*jni lo . HIM I {d Hi)W udHriniiii . i r /niljol , h1<| : li»uiJ*ob ,«jj« nwo^*dT »)i> w**■;) <}ii ii'j'ivj ^doiuaquioo iftii bua ,\o, ; diiw !>maii miifl* aril eiod liaMARY, QtlEKW. -OP ^OOTSf ^I-: '.ija ^Ilohl«MW •sosi'i ui uuitaaubo «\iaMio neiJinulioqqs odr-Td baifttnq oil* baa ,oJ ba-•» lo MSiiiuin fcaw .ba^ojao *d* aoilauiJaaialready' Tjpraihiiri twwcwMaS^eA^S u.a wnen-sneit is said, died of a broken heart, occasioned by thel5f'ftFeyu<f#lfSi'^-rft#ftWls''*<belr MWOWIgfijifenitHlift ibtet^nfaibinbaAjid'li e 'i -e ^ - ' sJb&niaJo-i*! led »o fseieJai eitl■id,.Yiiaiq%.ol ipd. b-)d«iviSSffiSS:1*:THE BISTORT OPplied, “ It (meaning the crown) came with a lass,and it will go with a lass!”When Mary attained her fifth year, it was de¬termined to send her to France, that she mightreceive ans«^|i$etion befittingd>er exalted station.She was accompanied by four young ladies of herown age, destined to be her play-fellows in infan¬cy, and her companions when she grew up. Theyall bore the same name with their mistress, andweragflPUfJtib Qrfdent£ , / H A wMary’s education in France was strictly attend¬ed to, and she profited djy the opportunities ofinstruction she enjoyed. She was mistress of se¬veral languages, and, was not oiply the most ao-<£>mplished of her sex, but was also, without ex¬ception, the most beautiful woman of her time!.;Her; coiihtenance wa? .lovely she was tall, wallfhrmed, graceful in all her actions, and her amiableV^hijer^' ^tpe^ |ye^rjt«^«td alo boib>i*, m Ht At this period, two jioWerftil parties fcofitbhddd^% the favour of the Scottish Queenf” Henry\|fll. of England, herIpaternal unde, btiiked hy'the interest of her Protestadt SUhjects ih'Stidtlatich’wished her to marry his sop, Prince J^dwar^;a6d, oh the other haad, her mother, theRegent, with her uncles the Dukes of Guise,odhrbd to bring about a marriage betwixt her.andthe eldeW son of the King of France. This they.,ultimately accomplished; and she was accordinglyMARY, QUEEV OF SCOTS.9married to the Dauphin, or eldest son of th«French King. The old King soon alter died,and Mary became Queen of France.This period seems to have been the brightestportion of Mary’s life. But it did not continuelong; for, little more then a year after his acces¬sion to the throne of France, her husband died,and Mary was left a widow at the age of eighteen.This melancholy change in her fortunes was,in some measure, alleviated by the pressing en¬treaties of her own subjects in Scotland that shewould return to her native country, and take thegovernment into her own hands. This she con¬sented to do, and set sail for Scotland on the15th of August, 15G1 She lingered long on thedeck of the galley which was conveying herhome, her eye lixed on the coast of France; andwhen they vanUhed irom her eyes, she exclaimedin sorrow,—*■ Farewell, farewell, happy France;I shall never see thee more P'On the 20th of August Mary arrived in Leith ;but little or no preparation had been made to re¬ceive her. Horses were sent to bring her andher train to Edinburgh, but they were wretched{tonics, and had such tattered furniture and ac¬coutrements, that poor Mary, when she thoughtof the splendid palfreys and rich apartments atthe court of France, could not forbear sheddingtears. The people were, however, in their way,glad to see her and about two hundred citizens10TCE HISTORY OFof Edinburgh, each doing his best upon a three*stringed fiddle, placed below her window all nightby way of welcome—a noisy serenade, which de¬prived her of sleep, after her fatigue.Unfortunately for the happiness of Mary’s fu¬ture life, she had been educated in the strictestdoctrines of the Catholic religion : the progressof the Reformation, therefore, added to the tur¬bulent state of parties in Scotland at the time,filled her mind with anxious forebodings. She,however, behaved with great prudence, and, byher affability' and condescension to all, soonmade herself extremely popular.Mary had been left a widow without chil¬dren ; and she was sole heir not only to the Scot¬tish throne, but also to that of England, aftertire death of Queen Elizabeth. Her subjectswere therefore very desirous that she should mar¬ry' a second husband, a purpose which she herselfencouraged and entertained. Several noblemenat home were proposed, and her hand was alsosolicited by foreign princes. Her view's, however,w'ere drawn towards Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley,eldest son of the Earl of Lennox. Young Darn-ley was remarkably tall and handsome, and per¬fect in all external and shewy accomplishments,but. unhappily, destitute of psudence or steadi¬ness of character, and very loose and immoral inhis habits. He was, moreover, no favourite withQueen EltKabath of England, who began at thuM A H 'Hotv IMto rtf1^1tiWH to-iraTO wry, gseat influoHCQ io tbs affair* ofScotland. Tbe Qaeen’s illegitimate brother, theEarl of Murray, a man of great abiliti^s-,ar4p<?w»r,was also strongly Opposed to the manage, andused all hi*inl]ne»ce to prevoni it NoUvhh?tand-iag of nil these obstacles, they wftre piavr^d *tEdinburgh on the 2.9th taa*00 »d».to her cost,ax]ierience any thing but happiness,jnband she had chosen. In a very sliort time afterthe marriage, he began to treat her with great dis¬respect, and hV his headstrong temper, and the in¬dulgence of low and disgraceful vices, her affec¬tions were soon completely ajieoated from him>i t lifiw ij.'cni.mi ,1-ivi! MW lit oub; mw/djnJlAmongst otlrer snbjpcts of disagreement, Darj^-ley was jealous of tiro power and infhiepce ofDavid Rizzio, Mary’s Italian secretary. Thisman had been formerly his chosen friend, but henow hated him as his deadliest foe, and, with theassistance of some discontented noblemen, deter¬mined to destroy him. baM *’h! oiU hue i-mitbet ..,11 .» <>) yiojiidThis horrid design was effected in the moat bar¬barous manner. One evening, while Mary wassitting at supper in a small cabinet adjoining toher bed-chamber, in company with fbe Countessof Argyle, Rizzio, and some other at^enda|tts,Darnloy suddenly entered by a private’ i.ass^e-He was mmmd.ately foljpwed by I.ordclad in complete armour, looking pale and ^nastiy,hhvinj1 jftst recoveroJ from long sickness, andothers crowded in after him, till the closet wasAil! of armed men. While Mary demanded theptffjiose of their coming, Darnley stood for a momerit gloomily eyeing his victim ; and Rizzio.who saw that his life was aimed at, ran behindthe Queen, seized hold of her gown, and imploredher protection. The assassins threw down thetable, and seized on the unfortunate object of theiivengeance, while Darnley himself took hold Ofthe Queeir, and in ^pUe of het tears and entreaties, Rizzio was dragged from her presence in 1/an anti-chamber, and despatched with fifty-sixwound.?.-F/OutffiBffckPf1* wof 10 aoaimm flsieiqiaoo noo* siaw gooffRuthven, after all was over, fatigued with hisexertions, sat d’Own in the Queen’s presence, aindcalled for a drink tit refresh him, as if he had beendoing the most harinl'ess thing in the world, cfjd ,bnfih1imiot riaii■ “ The witness^-., tho actors, and the scene ofthis cruel tragedy," says an elegant historian,“ render it one of the most extraordinary whivithistory' records to us. The cabinet and the bed¬room still remain ki the same condition in whi !\they were at the lime^ aad the fleer pear l,Li,thead of the stair hours visible mark* of the bl<?.)dof the unhappy Rizzio/umoo aj ,ied(nada-bed isdThe QueenI*con^?^e^% 'Bi^’^js^iiS^vifFPlayers and teafs; Ljl lits v^ueeii cuiuuiueu lu UL*g up me wiir>Cayers and tears; but when she learned that 'lievas depd, she dried her tears—“ I will now,” sKeN AUV, QL'EKN OF StOTS.I*It \^as not to bd expected, after this shockingoutrage, that Mary could ever be reconciled toher husband. His brutal conduct entirely derstroyed her happiness, and a deep and settled tne»lancholy preyed upon her heaft.A few months after this tragical event, she wasdelivered of a son in the Castle of Edinburgh. Acurious account is recorded of the behaviour otElizabeth at this time .-t-t When news of this eventreached London, Queen Elizabeth was merrilyengaged in dancing; but upon hearing what hadhappened, she left the dance, and sat down, lean¬ing her head on her hand, and exclaiming pas¬sionately to her ladies, ,j‘ Do you not hear howthe Queen of Soots hajh a hno son, and I am but•L’woi y ii.H In osmsU‘1 edJ ui botjbo!The birth of her son did not by any means re¬concile Mary to her husband: on the contrary, herdislike continued to increase to such a degree, that,many of the nobility about tier Court began tothink, that it would not be disagreeable to her totie entirely freed from such an ill-tempered hue-,tytjuihiii {,ilj ol MpM ui MM* (il*Wlifofl in lialilAmongst those who'fiixt agitated this schemewas James, Earl of Bothwell, a man in middleage, and the head of the powerful family of H ep-burn ih East Lothian. Ho had always showngreat Zeal for Mary’s service, and being one ofthose who strongly opposed the murder of Rizzio,this., naturally led her to distinguish him witha2it,r TsaniiwVfcs v orgsMiliy nmrks 6f her favour antf regard; So miieh#6, Ihkt the 'public Voice, and aflTOn^ others thatof John Kflok, the distinguished reforrtieV, accus¬ed her dfbeinf fonder of Bothwell thiih’shfe oughtto have been, he being a fnarried maii;' and 'her-.id) tell* sdtaon wel AA While these t>ohemes \tere in agitatidn, Darnfe^fell ill at Glasgow of the sinall-po*. The Queen,whose affection seemed to have revived with hisyin«H8,sent him her own physician, and afterwardsWent!'herself to him. They came together WEdinburgh; and that he might enjoy free air, andbfcneaionad From the noise and- bustld' OfHhe bity,h* Was lodged without the wails, in a house calledKirk of ffieid. 'iHie Queenj with her infant pHhce,lodged in the Palace of Holyrood, from whetldd1 conspiracy against,“ executed,_p£(,■^nomi.iiiethherd*oj niijj-jdoaoQn the evening of the Pth February, Several!peWOn^ 'Mpsnyen, retainers, and servants oF thdEarl of Bothwell, came in secret to the Kirk bfField$ . ,wHSn, thoV ‘disposed ttui powder in, meyaulto lie* ,low Darnfev's upartmont, and especially below,iu. 4at || tj MaCS S ZS“ -Ahont tWo houif* liftet nltdhidliti, rtjiWtl-the en-Mart, qUKKN OF seor*.suing morning, Bothwull himsolf came, disguisedin a riding-cloak, to see the execution of the cruelproject. Two of his ruffians went in and tookmeans of tiring the powder, by lighting a piece, ofslow-burning match at one end, and placing theother amongst the gunpowder. They remainedfor some time watching the event. The explo¬sion presently took fdace, blew up the Kirk ofField, and alarmed the whole city. The body ofDarnley was found in the adjoining orchard,”This horrible murder excited the strongest sen¬sation throughout the kingdom, and all eyes wereturned on Bothweli as the perpetrator; nor didMary herself escape from partaking of the generalodium. •Bothwell now no longer concealed his ambi¬tious views. Having applied for, and obtained, adivorce from his former wife, he prevailed uponsome of the most powerful nobles to recommendhim as the most proper husband for the Queen ;and although Mary could not with decency atonce accept of the hand stained with the bloodof her late husband, yet, it must be confessed, sheshowed little inclination to resist the efforts madeby Bothwell to accomplish his purpose. Being ona visit to the young prince at Stirling, on her re¬turn to Edinburgh, she was met by Bothwell atCramond Bridge with a thousand horse. Havingdisarmed her attendants, he seized the bridle ofthe Queen’s palfrey, and without much resistance18THE HISTORY OEon her part, carried iier to the strong Castle ofDunbar in East Lothian. Marr,soon afterward -',with the most unpardonable indiscretion, cameto Edinburgh, and publicly married this profli¬gate and ambitious nobleman.But this ill-fated marriage, instead of promoing Mary’s happiness, had tire contrary effect, foBothwell used her grossly ill, and being disappointed in getting the young prince into -his keep¬ing, used such upbraiding language to her, thatshe was hoard to pray for a knife to stab herselfrather than endure his cruel treatment To addto her distress, many of the most powerful noblesrose in arms, and avowed their determination torescue the young prince,—revenge the deulii ofDarnley,—and remove Bothvvell fitun his usurpedpower. *Bothwell and Mary assembled a body of troopsto oppose this confederacy, and the two armiesmet on Carberry Hill, seven miles to the eastwardof Edinburgh. The troops of Mary were, how¬ever, ill affected to her cause, and Bothwell, aftervarious attempts to animate their courage, waspersuaded by the Queen to leave the field. Mary,upon a promise of kind treatment, delivered her¬self up to the Laird of Grange, who conductedher to Edinburgh.As the unhappy Queen approached the capital,led m it were in triumph, the most coarse andMART, QUEi-.N l>* SCUTS.19iiisulting language was used towards her by thepopulace. A banner was exhibited before her,displaying on the one side the portrait of Darnleyas he lay murdered under a tree in the fatal orch¬ard, with these words embroidered, “Judge andavenge my cause, O Lord !” and on the other sidethe little prince on his knees, holding up his hands,as if praying to Heaven against his father’s mur¬derers ; and as the Queen rode through the streets,with her hair loose, her garments disordered,covered with dust, and overpowered with grief,the multitude loudly upbraided her with havingbeen an accomplice in her husband’s murder.The Lords of the confederacy, however, ap¬prehending danger to their cause from some symp¬toms of returning loyalty amongst the better orderof citizens, conveyed her to the strong Castle ofLochleven, which stands on a little island sur¬rounded by a lake of the same name, and detainedher as a prisoner.Bothwell escaped in a boat to Denmark, butbeing suspected of plundering some vessel at sea,he was thrown into prison; and, after languishingten years in confinement, died without the sym¬pathy of one friendly tear.Mary was imprisoned in a rude and incon¬venient tower, where there was scarcely room towalk thirty yards, and her brother the Earl ofMurray, was made Regent of the kingdom duringthe minority of her son. They even compelledtuk uiSTour orher to sign a deed, surrendering her crown to herson; and Lord Lindsay, the most brutal and bi¬goted of the confederated Lords, was so unmanlyas to pinch with his iron glove the arm of the poorQueen, to compel her to subscribe the deeds.A singular incident, however, for a short time,changed the face of things, and gave a gleam ofhope to the unfortunate Queen of Scots. SirWilliam Douglas, the Laird of Lochleven, dis¬charged the task of Mary’s jailor with consider¬able severity; but his youngest brother, GeorgeDouglas, a youth of eighteen, was deeply interested by her beauty and misfortunes, and had forsome time been anxiously meditating her deliverance. By the help of a little boy, a kinsman ofhis own, called Little Douglas, he contrived tosteal the key of the castle while the family wereat supper. He let Mary and her attendant out ofthe tower when all had gone to rest,—locked thegate behind them to prevent pursuit,—placed theQueen in a little boat provided for that purpose,and rowed them to the shore, throwing the keysof the castle into the lake in the course of theitpassage. Lord Seaton, a party of the Hamiltorts,and many of her friends, were waiting at the land¬ing-place. They hurried her off to Niddry inWest-Lothian, from which she went next day toHamilton.The news of the Queen’s escape flew like light¬ning, and spread enthusiasm every where. HeiMAH?, ut' 3»;OT*. $1errors were now forgotten—they thought only ofher misfortunes, her. gentleness, grace and beauty.At the end of the week, she found herself at thehead of a powerful confederacy, by which nineBishops, eighteen Lords, and many gentlemen ofhigh rank, engaged to defend her person, and re¬store her power.But these bright prospects were soon obscured.The Regent Murray was lying at Glasgow, andalthough his troops were much inferior to Mary’sin point of number, yet, with a just confidence inhis own abilities, assisted by the experience ofKirkaldy, Morton, and other tried officers, he de¬termined to meet the Queen’s Lords, and givethem battle.The two armies met at the village of Langside,near Paisley. Too confident in their number *and valour, the Harailtons, and others of Mary’sparty, rushed heedlessly on to the engagement.Both parties fought with obstinacy, but the Earl ofMorton decided the battle, by attacking the Ha-ftiiltons in flank, while their columns were closelyEngaged in front. This movement was decisive,and the Queen’s army was completely routed.From a rising ground in the neighbourhoodMary witnessed this fatal defeat, whereby all herhciUiaBt prospects were completely extinguished.Filled with distress and terror, she instantly rodeoff at full speed, necompunied by a few faithful fol-Ipwers, and never ’closed her eyes till site reachedTHE HISTORY42the Abbey of Dundrennan in Galloway, sixtymiles from the field of batUp. From this placeshe had it in her power either to go to France,or cross the frontier to England, and put herselfunder the protection of Queen Elizabeth. Thislast step she determined upon, contrary" to theadvice of her wiser attendants, who kneeled andentreated in vain.In throwing herself upon the protection of theEnglish Queen, Mary" seems to have acted fromthe impulses of her own generous nature, andtrusted to her feelings as a woman, and a nearrelation. But Elizabeth considered the ScottishQueen, not as a sister or friend in distress, butas an enemy, and determined to reduce her to thecondition of a captive.In pursuance of this line of conduct, the unfor¬tunate Mary was surrounded with guards, and re¬moved to Bolton Castle in Yorkshire.For eighteen long years was Mary detained aprisoner under various pretexts of plotting withthe enemies of the state, as if it was a crime forthe poor Scottish Queen to long for liberty; add.to favour the plans contrived by her friends/ofher deliverance. ,»rj;' ' j b»WOn)IW ymlrLMeantime, Scotland was filled with war andbloodshed; all natural ties were forgotten in>thedistinction of Kiugsmen and Queensmen, add fa¬thers, sons, and brothers took opposite sides, andMAKVyQUKEV U9T Sew'?.26fought^against each other. The: very children ofthe towns and villages are said to have formedthemselves into bands for King James or QueenMary, and fought inveterately with stones, sticks,aM^kstsas:*'^ ovjdw Jaemtieqis 'jtii 1o Haw oth noboa .Jnodtiw moil «d Jon irivirn v7oi)ar(* sidThe Ear] of Murray, being now Regent of thekingdom, had attained to the height of bis ambi¬tion; But it happens frequently, that when menappear most secure of the object they have beeplong toiling for, their views are suddenly andstrangely, disappointed. A blow was impending^over Murray from a quarter, which, if namet} jothe haughty Regent, he would probably have de¬spised,.since it originated in the resentment of a(did dleenod tf yihlnidj tud ,Tgn«h-bwoioodl nwob vnv/ sid no l(p>>l oil ,iaol lo -After the battle of Langside, six of/the Uamil-tons were condemned to die, but through the in¬tercession of John Knox, received a pardon, al¬though with:the loss of their property. One ofthese pe^ons was Hamilton of Bqthwellhaugh, aman of a fierce and vindictive character. Hislands of Woodhouselee,: near Roslin, were givento one of Murray’s favourites, who, in taking pos¬session, rudely turned Hamilton’s wife out of herown house, undressed, and exposed to a stormyand tempestuous night. In consequence of thisbrutal treatment, she became insane and died.Her husband vowed revenge against the RegentMurray, whom he considered the author of all hismis for Mitt e*'J iedl o- beusiuq jit.u l u-.iiji*THE BISTORT OF2ft •Learning that the Regent was to pass throughLinlithgow on a certain day, BothweUhaugh se*cretly introduced hlmsdf into a house whose win¬dow looked t© the street. He liungahlack elothon the wall of the apartment where he lay* thathis shadow might not he seen from without, andspread a mattress ©mthe floor, that the sound ofhis feet might not he heard from heneatb. Tosecure his escape, he fastened a fleet horse in thegarden behind the house, and barricaded the doorwhich opened to the street. Thus prepared, hearmed himself with a loaded carabine, and waitedthe arrival of his unsuspecting victinA v-evuiM imo~<H> evccl Yidadoicj EitJOW su^V.o^fiH vjdauad sdjIt is said that the Regent was warned of thedanger, but thinking it beneath him to show anysigns of fear, he kept on his way down the crowd¬ed street. As Ire came opposite to the fatal win¬dow, his horse was retarded bv the crowd. This' T *gave Bothwellhaugh time to take a deliberateaim; he fired his carabine, and the Regent fell,mortally wounded. 4The ball, after passing through his body, killedtire horse of a gentleman who rode on his righthand. His attendants rushed, furiously at thedoor of the house from which the shot,had.issued;but Bothwellhpugh’s precautions had beep so se-edroly taken, that they were unable to force theirentrance till he bad mounted Ida good horse, andeseupad through tire gardou .gated Ha *was not¬withstanding pursued so closely, that he had veryMA*T,ftUEEN OF RCQTF.H?i nearly been taken ; but after sp?r aqd whip tadI both failed, he pricked his horse with his dagger,] and compelled him to take a desperate leap overi a ditch, which his pursuers.were unable to eras*,i and thus made his escape ^ The Regent died ini the course of the night, leaving a character, whichlias been, perhaps, too highly extolled by oneclass of authors, abd too much depreciated byanother, according as his conduct to his sister wasapproved or eofldemned. hrmt * d lol. * luoado ,»teriw bua ,J?9d«id *sw afoot'rho death of Murray seems to have been ex¬pected by Mary’s friends, for the very night afterit happenel, the Scotts and Kerrs, two borderclans, broke into England, and laid waste thecountry in all directions. When threatened withthe vengeance of the Regent, a borderer repliedthat the Regent was as cold as his bridle-bit.•- i - v<> , , bna ,i|u baldfriaio*In consequence of the murder pf the Regent,men’s minds were much exasperated against ©»eanother. Various castles still held out for Many,and among others was Dumbarton Castle. It wnf,however, taken from her party in the followingextraordinary manner:—-- : ■ 1w ,,urfDumbarton is one of the strongest places inScotland. It is situated on a rock, which risesalmost perpendicularly from a level plain to theheight of several hundred feet. On the summitof this rock the buildings are situated, and asthere is only one access from below, which rises¥ steps, and is strongly guarded and fortified,•Ifie fort might be almost held to be impregnable,that is, incapable of being taken. One CaptainCrawfurd of Jordanhill resolved, nevertheless, tomake an attempt on this formidable castle,rlaid*// .leJaaiada e ^oivua! sdi 1oHe took advantage of a misty and moonlessnight to bring to the foot of the castle-rock thescaling-ladders which he had provided, choosingfor his terrible experiment the place where therock was highest, and where, of course, less painswere taken to keep a regular guard. This choicewas fortunate; for the first ladder broke with theweight of the men who attempted to mount, andthe noise of the fall must have betrayed them,had there been any sentinel within hearing. Craw¬ford, assisted by a soldier who had deserted fromthe castle, and was acting as his guide, nextscrambled up, and contrived to make fast thesecond ladder, by tying it to the roots of a tree,which gtew about midway up the rock. Herethey found a small flat surface, that held the wholeparty, which was, of course, very few in number.In scaling the second precipice, another accidenttook place : One of the party, subject to epilepticfits, was seized by one of those attacks, broughton perhaps by terror, while he was in the act ofclimbing up the ladder. His illness made it im¬possible for him either to ascend or descend. Tonave slain the man would have been a cruel ex-Eedient, besides that his fall from the ladder mustavc alarmed the garrison. Crawford caused him.MARY, QUEEN OP SCOTS.therefore, to be tied to the ladder: then all tnrest descending, they turned the ladder, and thusmounted with ease over the belly of the epilepticperson. When the party gained the summit, theyslew the sentinel ere he had time to give thealarm, and easily surprised the slumbering garri¬son, who had trusted too much to the security oftheir castle. This exploit of Crawford may com¬pare with any thing or the kind which we read olin history.In the meantime, poor Mary was kept in closeconfineTnebt, carried from castle to castle, and putunder various keepers. At last Elisabeth deter¬mined to bring her unhappy cousin to a publictrial, for having encouraged and aided some zea¬lous Catholics to assassinate Queen Elizabeth.And, in spite of the absurdity of trying the Queenof Scotland by the laws of England, she was foundguilty by her judges, and the Parliament of Eng¬land ratified this iniquitous sentence. ' A1 warrantfor her execution Immediately followed, and theEarls of Kent and Shrewsbury, with the HighSheriff of the county, were commanded to see thisfatal mandate carried into effect. ’<ttmt/Oe/ftbin* JtaiLr/(oM /fuJowMeaW “Mary received the news of her immediate exe:cution with the utmost firmness. “The soil,”she said, “was undeserving of the joys of heaven,which would shrink from the blow of an execu-tfoner.iShe had net,” she added, “ expected thather kinswoman would have consented to her32THE HirrORY OFi^oath, but submitted not tbs less willingly to heirate She earnestly requested the assistanc ofa Catholic priest; but this favour, although gra nt-ed to the worst of criminals, was cruelly denied 11her. The Queen then wrote her will, andshort and affectionate letter* to her friends iaFrance.—Amidst the tears and lamentations .other attendants, she distributed her little valuablohamong them, and desired them to lymp thnm fnt!her sake. This occupied the evening hefo»4h«day appointed for her execution.-aw niaM loon .'uuitiu'.am ediOn tlmlfitb S»brw»eyK;l(5W, th«! Qufttttifl&U.maintainkig thursame riim and itedistnrhed ap-pwu’aBce that,sfi© had diapUyod at her trial, wasUreughli.dowtt to .theigreat, halkof tite Cartlp ofFotheciosia\v whpre u seailuhi was oiertnl, oilwhieh'was jdacei a Mouk andiia cU^.u',tvitl) Idaok cloth. A^ha paatedyjr JAndrew Alelville, the njaster qfd IwfS^jhold, was permitted , to take ,»i Igftijmi*tress M?ham he had H«#ntWolongiftml£%itWl11 liTtHe burst into tears#i<»WiiiyffeP\h«iit»gilSrlamenting hU,a*Bitrinolj#i»^4^shtt®dnews to Scotlandjoefie otoi Lahnea •Jabuam ItUatHi rej^'gvuhtslftitvdo^fttUsrtwl ihtrtideoiiiaocWljimltj^Wk\ hf*lreqjtW‘-‘ vi>ehbh I^AWtMifsifecomfwym4 «W tfetOMtHski hhraw BMnownaM v»d414* X, qbHEK 0P SCOT*. ItSeated in the foul-chair, she heard the death-wwapt read wUh an unmoved countenance, XJaeDean of Peterborough exhorted her to renouncethe errors of the Church of Rome. She listenedto him with impatience, repeatedly assuring himthat his exhortations Were in vain, since she wasresolved to die in the Catholic foith. She im¬plored the mercy of Heaven, after the form pre¬scribed by that church, and then prepared hemetffor execution, by taking off such parts of herdress as might interfere with the deadly blow.The executioners offered their assistance, but shemodestly refused it, saying, she had neither beenaccustomed to undress before so many spectators,nor to be assisted by such servants.The grief of her attendants now broke forth inloud lamentutions; but she put her finger to herlips, as a sign for fogti bo silent, gave themher blessing, and desired their prayers. One ofher maids covered her eyes with a handkerchief.She then laid her head upon the block, and whileone of the executioners held her hands, the other,at the second stroke, severed her head from herbody. The headsman held it up in his hand,streaming with blood, and the Dean of Peter¬borough cried out, “ So perish all Queen Eliza¬beth’s enemies!” No voice save that of the Earlof Kent answered Amen ; the rest of the specta¬tors stood in silent horror, their voices chokedwith siiriis and tearS4 ■ICTOKY OP qUHW MABT.W« cannot conclude this account of tha unfar-tunate Mary better than in the words of an emi¬nent author“ Thus died Mary, aged a little above forty-fourM years. She was eminent for beauty, for talents,“ and accomplishments, nor is there reason to“ doubt her natural goodness of heart, and coura-“geous manliness of disposition Yet she was,“ in every sense, one of the most unhappy prin-“ cesses that ever lived, from the moment when“she came into the world, in an hour of defeat“ and danger, to that in which a bloody and vio-“ lent death closed a weary captivity of eighteen“years."m dim) Milord • i ! : . ■ ' (led oJ i ■ !i (| ejiri ...ineHf #v«8 • *he mm.lo onO .«naVAUj liadt boiii>*»h hnn ,;:ni**oid ,.'leidoiodbmifl a diiw i»d iioiavoo stiuiin lodolidw btm ,j|rKil<l erit uo<pi band i»d bial nodt eri8.iftiito odi ,*l)tiad md bled noaoiJnaaxo odt Tto eaoned rnoi’t band ted b<navsn ,*>doit? bnooe* sdl Jo,bn«d i>id ni qn ti .blod namebaed ed'I .vbodislnM to nito(l edt bna .boold dtiw ^niniasit*axilcl neeii^) lie of'. “ ,liio beno dsnoiodliecl »dt lo JedJ oimt ooiov oH "! 'oimeno (•'ilJod-•Jnorts edi to Jj-ni smIj *, bmwV. bamwi-na lin*}! 1obeduib staoiov ii«dt .ronod tnoli* ni bciolc moImot bfta *dv» dliw