LlBRjj >LOFSCOTLANGLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,JU i u aoitTHEIIISTOir?0»DUNCAN CAMPBELL,I Dcsciy C AiirB'ELL came from the Highlands, wheni six years of age, to live with an old maiden aunt ini': Edinburgh, and attend the school. His mother was, dead: but his father had supplied her place, byij marrying his house-keeper. Duncan did not troublei: himself about these matters, nor indeed about anysl| other matters, save a black foal of his father’s, anda large sagacious colley, named Oscar, which be-j longed to one of the shepherds.—There being noI other boy, save Duncan, about the house, Oscar and;ihe were constant companions.—With his garter tied(round Oscar’s neck, and a piece of deal tied to hisfeig bushy tail, Duncan would often lead him aboutthe green, pleased with the idea that ho was con-aducting a horse and cart. Oscar submitted to allthis with great cheerfulness, but whenever DuncanI mounted to ride on him, he found means instantlyto unhorse him, either by galloping or rolling him¬self on the green. When Duncan threatened him,ae looked submissive and licked his face and hands ;!when he corrected him with the whip, he cowered atlis feet. Oscar would lodge no place during theright, but at the door of the room where his youngfriend slept, and woe be to the man or woman who3 featured to enter in at untimely hours.When Duncan left his native home, ho thought!iot of his father nor any of the servants. He was4i'ond of the ride, and some supposed that he evenjscarcely thought of the black foal; but when he sawOscar standing looking him in the face, the tearsimmediately blinded both his eyes. He caught himaround the neck, hugged and kissed him—‘ Goodb’ye Oscar,’ said he blubbering; ‘ Good b’ye, God.bless you, my dear Oscar ; Duncan mounted beforea servant and rode away. Oscar still followed at;a distance, until he reached the top of the hill—hethen sat down and howled. Duncan cried till his!little heart was like to burst. What ails you ? said,the servant; ‘ I will never see my poor honest Oscariagain,’ said Duncan, ‘an’ my heart canna bide it.’Duncan staid a year in Edinburgh, but he didnot make great progress in learning, neither did heapprove highly of attending the school, and his;aunt was too indulgent to compel his attendance.She grew extremely ill one day—the maids keptconstantly by her, and never regarded Duncan, liewas an additional charge to them, and they neverloved him, but used him harshly. It was now withgreat difficulty that he could obtain either meat ordrink. In a few days after his aunt was taken illshe died. All was in confusion, and poor Duncanwas like to perish with hunger ;—he could find noperson in the house ; but hearing a noise in hisaunt’s chamber, he went in, and beheld them dress¬ing the corpse of his kind relation :—it was enough:Duncan was horified beyond what mortal breastwas able to endure :—he hastened down the stair asfast as his feet would carry him, crying incessantlyall the way. He would not have entered that houseagain if the world had been offered him as a reward.Some people stopped him in order to ask what wasthe matter but he could only answer them by ex¬claiming, ‘ Oh, dear! Oh, dear,’ and struggling till5he got free, held on his course careless whither hewent, providing he got far enough from the horridscene he had so lately witnessed. Some have sup¬posed, and I believe Duncan has been heard confess,that he then imagined he was running for theHighlands, but mistook the direction. However,he continued his course until he came to a placewhere two ways met, a little south of Grange Toll.Here he sat down, and his frenzied passion subsid¬ed into a soft melancholy:—he cried no more, butsobbed excessively: fixed his eyes on the ground,and made some strokes in the dust with his finger.A sight just then appeared, which somewhat in¬terested his heavy and forlorn heart—it was a largedrove of Highland cattle. They were the onlycreatures like acquaintances that Duncan had seenfor a year, and a tender feeling of joy, mixed withregret, thrilled his heart at the sight of their whitehorns and broad dew-laps. As the van passed him,he thought their looks were particularly gruff andsullen ; he soon perceived the cause, they were allin the hands of Englishmen ; poor exiles like him¬self ; going far away to be killed and eaten, andwould never see the Highland hills again.When they were all gone by, Duncan lookedafter them, and wept anew ; but his attention wassuddenly called away to something that softlytouched his feet;—he looked hastily about—it wasa poor hungry lame dog, squatted on the ground,licking his feet, and manifesting the most extrava¬gant joy. Gracious Heaven! it was his own Os¬car ! starved, emaciated, and so crippled that liewas scarcely able to walk. He was doomed to bethe slave of a Yorkshire peasant, (who it seems,had bought or stolen him at Falkirk) the generosityand benevolence of whose feelings were as inferior to6fibose of Oscar, as Oscar was inferior to him instrength and power. It is impossible to conceive amore tender meeting than this was; but Duncansoon observed that hunger and misery were paint¬ed in his friend’s looks, which again pierced his heartwith feelings unfelt before.—‘ I have not a crumbto give you, my poor Oscar!’said he—‘I have nota crumb to eat myself, but I am not so ill as youare.’ The peasant whistled aloud. Oscar wellknew the sound, and clinging to the boy’s bosom,leaned his head upon his thigh, and looked in hisface, as if saying, ‘ O Duncan, protect me from yonruffian.’ The whistle was repeated, accompaniedby a loud and surly call. Oscar trembled, butfearing to disobey, he limped away reluctantly afterhis unfeeling master, and who observing him tolinger and look back, imagined he wanted toeffect his escape, and came running back to meethim. Oscar cowered to the earth in the mostsubmissive and imploring manner, but the peasantlaid hold of him by the ear and uttering manyimprecations, struck him with a thick staff till helay senseless at his feet.Every possible circumstance seemed combined towound the feelings of poor Duncan, but this un¬merited barbarity shocked him most of all. Hehasted to the scene of action, weeping bitterly, andtelling the man that he was a cruel brute, and thatif ever he himself grew a big man he would cer¬tainly kill him. He held up his favourite’s headthat he might recover his breath, and the manknowing that he could do little without the assis¬tance of his dog, waited patiently to see what wouldbe the issue. The animal recovered, and stammer¬ed away at the heels of his tyrant, without daringto look behind him, Duncan stood still, but kept7his feyes eagerly fixed upon Oscar, and the fartherhe went from him, the more strong his desire grewto follow him. lie looked the other way, but all wasto him a blank—he had no desire to stand where hewas, so he followed Oscar and the drove of cattle.The cattle were weary and went slowly, andDuncan getting a little rod in his hand, assistedI the men greatly in driving. One of the driversgave him a penny, and another gave him twopence ;and the lad who had the charge of the drove, ob¬serving how active and pliable he was, and how farhe had accompanied them on the way, gave him six¬pence this was a treasure to Duncan, who, beingi very hungry, bought three penny rolls as he passedj through a town ; one of these he ate himself, anotherhe gave to Oscar, and the third he carried belowi his arm, in case of further necessity. He drovei all the day, and at night the cattle rested upon aj height which seems to have been that between GalaWater and Middleton. Duncan went aside in com-I pany with Oscar, to eat his roll, and taking shelter! behind an earthen wall, they shared their drymeal most lovingly between them. Ere it wasquite finished, Duncan being fatigued, dropped intoa profound slumber, out of which ho did not awake' until the next morning was far advanced. English¬men, cattle, and Oscar, all were gone. Duncanfound himself alone on a wild height, in whatcountry or kingdom he knew not. He sat for sometime in a callous stupor, rubbing his eyes, andscratching his head, quite irresolute what was far¬ther necessary for him to do, until he was agreeablysurprised by the arrival of Oscar, who (though hehad gone at his master’s call in the morning) hadfound means to escape and seek the retreat of hisyoung friend and benefactor. Duncan, withoutreflecting on the consequence, rejoiced in the evenand thought of nothing else than furthering hiescape from the ruthless tyrant who now claimehim. For this purpose he thought it would be besto leave the road, accordingly he crossed it in ordeto go over a waste moor to the westward. Ho hanot got forty paces from the road, until he behelthe enraged Englishman running towards hiiwithout his coat, and having his staff heaved ovehis shoulder. Duncan’s heart fainted within hin:knowing it was all over with Oscar, and most like!with himself. The peasant seemed not to havobserved them, as he was running, and rather looke>the other way ; and as Duncan quickly lost sight chim in a hollow that lay between them, he crepinto a bush of heath and took Oscar in his bosomthe man had observed from whence the dog startC'in the morning, and hasted to the place expectin;to find him sleeping beyond the earthen dike ; hfound the nest, but the birds were flown :—he callei ialoud ; Oscar trembled and clung to Duncan’s breast iDuncan peeped through his purple covert like ;heath-cock on his native waste, and again beheh!the ruffian coming towards them, with his staff stil 1heaved, and fury in his looks;—when he canrwithin a few yards he bellowed out ‘ Oscar, yhayho!’ Oscar quaked, and still clung closer t>Duncan’s breast; Duncan almost sunk to the earth‘D—n him,' said the Englishman, ‘ if I had a holoof him I should make both him and the little thievislrascal dear at a small price ; they cannot be far gout—I think I hear them; he then stood listeningbut at that instant a farmer came up on horsebackand having heard him call, asked him if he hac :lost his dog ? The peasant answered in the affirma ;live, and added, that a blackguard boy had stolen i-9i him. The farmer said that he met a boy with adog about a mile forward. During this dialogue,the farmer’s dog came up to Duncan’s den, smelledupon him then upon Oscar,—cocked his tail, walkedround them growling, and then behaved in a very! improper manner to Duncan, who took all patiently,uncertain whither he was yet discovered. But sointent was the fellow upon the farmer’s intelligence,that he took no notice of the discovery made by thei dog, but ran off without looking over his shoulder.Duncan felt this a deliverance so great, that all:| his other distresses vanished; and as soon as theI man was out of his sight, he arose from his covertij and ran over the moor, and ere it was long, cameI to a shepherd’s house, where he got some whey and'1 bread for his breakfast, which he thought the bestI meat he had ever tasted, yet shared it with Oscar.Though I had this history from his own mouth,| yet there is a space here which it is impossible toij relate with any degree of distinctness or interest.:j He was a vagabond boy, without any fixed habita-i tion, and wandered about Heriot Moor from one:| farm house to another, for the space of a year;(staying from one to twenty nights in each house,according as he found the people kind to him. Heseldom resented any indignity offered to himself,jbut whoever insulted Oscar, or offered any obser-ivations on the impropriety of their friendship, lost1 Duncan’s company next morning. He staid severalmonths at a place called Dewar, which he said wasjhunted by the ghost of a piper ;—the piper hadjjbeen murdered there many years before, in a man-Iner somewhat mysterious, or at least unaccounta¬ble ; and there was scarcely a night but which hewas supposed either to be seen or heard about thehouse. I shall give this story in Duncan’s ownwords, which I have often heard him repeat without iany yariation.I had been driving some young cattle to the Iheights of AVillensfie—it grew late before I got Ihomo. I was thinking, and thinking how cruel itwas to kill the poor piper! to cut out his tongue,and stab him in the back. I thought it was no |wonder that his ghost took it extremely ill; when,all on a sudden I perceived a light before me :—Ithought the wand in my hand was all on fire, andthrew it away, but I perceived the light glide slowlyby my right foot, and burn behind me ; I vTas |nothing afraid, and turned about to look at thelight, and there I saw the piper, who was standing Ihard at my back, and when I turned round, he!looked me in the face.’ ‘ What was he like, Dun-;can V ‘ He was like a dead body! but I got ashort view of him ; for that moment all around megrew dark as a pit!—I tried to run, but sunk power¬less to the earth, and lay in a kind of dream, I donot know how long ; when I came to myself, I gotup, and endeavoured to run, but fell to the groundevery two steps. I was not a hundred yards from ithe house, and I am sure fell upwards of a hundred,times. Next day I was in a very high fever ; the*servants made me a comfortable bed in the kitchen,to which I was confined by illness many days,during which time I suffered the most dreadful,agonies by night, always imagining the piper to be*standing over me on the one side or the other. As:soon as I was able to walk, I left Dewar, and for a,long time durst never sleep alone during the night,nor stay by myself in the day time.’The superstitious ideas impressed upon Duncan'smind by this unfortunate encounter with the ghost;of th§ piper, seem never to have been eradicated;; ■11a strong instance of the power of early impressions,and a warning how much caution is necessary inmodelling the conceptions of the young and tendermind, for of all men I ever knew, he is the mostafraid of meeting with apparitions. So deeply ishis imagination mixed with this startling illusion,that even the calm disquisitions of reason have? proved quite inadequate to the task of dispelling it.I When ever it wears late, he is always on the lookout for these ideal beings, keeping a jealous eyeupon every bush and brake, in case they should belurking behind them, ready to fly out and surprisehim every moment; and the approach of a person, in the dark, or any sudden noise, always depriveshim of the power of speech for some time.After leaving Dewar, he again wandered about' for a few weeks ; and it appears that his youth,beauty, and peculiarly destitute situation, togetherwith his friendship for his faithful Oscar, had inter-iested the most part of the country people in his be¬half, for he was generally treated with kindness.He knew his father’s name, and the name of hishouse: but as some of the people he visited hadnever before heard of either the one or the other,they gave themselves no trouble about the matter.He staid nearly two years in a place he calledGowhaur, till a wretch, with whom he slept, struckand abused him one day. Duncan, in a rage, flewto the loft, and cut all his Sunday hat, shoes andcoat in pieces ; and not daring to abide the conse¬quences, decamped that night.He wandered about for some time longer amongthe farmers of Tweed and Yarrow; but this lifewas now become exceedingly disagreeable to him.He durst not sleep by himself, and the servants didIl!not always choose that a vagrant boy and his grea^dog should sleep with them.It was on a rainy night, at the close of harvestthat Duncan came to my father’s house, I remem¬ber all the circumstances as well as those of yes¬terday. The whole of his clothing consisted onlyof one black coat, which having been for a fullgrown man, hung fairly to his heels ; the hair ofhis head was rough, curled, and weather beaten ;but his face was ruddy and beautiful, bespeaking ahealthy body and a sensible feeling heart. Oscarwas still nearly as large as himself, had the colourof a fox, with a white stripe down his face, and aring of the same colour round his neck, and was themost beautiful colley I have ever seen. My heartwas knit to Duncan at the first sight, and I weptfor joy when I saw my parents so kind to him. Mymother in particular, could scarcely do any thing elsethan converse with Duncan for several days. I wasalways of the party, and listened with wonder andadmiration : and often have these adventures beenrepeated to me. My parents, who soon seemed to |lfeel the same concern for him as if he had beentheir own son, clothed him in blue drugger, andbought him a smart little Highland bonnet; inwhich dress he looked so charming, that I wouldnot let them have peace until I got one of the same.Indeed, all that Duncan said or did was to me apattern, for I loved him as my own life. I was, atmy own request, which he persuaded me to urge,permitted to be his bed-fellow, and many a happy.night and day did I spend with Duncan and Oscar.As far as I remember, we felt no privation ofany kind, and would have been completely happy,if it had not been for the fear of spirits. When theconversation chanced to turn upon the Piper of13Dewar, the maid of Flora, or the Pedlar of Thirle-•tane Mill, often have we lain with the bed-clothesdrawn over our heads until nearly suffocated. Weloved the fairies and the brownies, and even felt alittle partiality for the mermaids, on account oftheir beauty and charming songs ; we -were a littlejealous of the water-kelpies, and always kept alooffrom the frightsome pools. We hated the devilmost heartily, but we were not much afraid of him ;but a ghost! oh dreadful! the name ghost, spirit, orapparition sounded in our ears like the knell ofdestruction, and our hearts sunk within us as ifpierced by the cold icy shaft of death. Duncanherded my father’s cows all the summer—so didI—we could not live asunder. We grew fishersso expert, that the speckled trout, with all his artcould not elude our machinations ; we forced himfrom his watery cove, admired the beautiful shadesand purple drops that were painted on his sleekysides, and forthwith added him to our number,without the least reluctance. We assailed thehabitation of the wild bee, and rifled it of all heraccumulated sweets, though not, however, withoutencountering the most determined resistance. Myfather’s meadows abounded with hives ; they werealmost in every swath—in every hillock. Whenthe swarm was large they would beat us off, dayafter day. In all these engagements, Oscar cameto our assistance, and, provided that none of theenemy made a lodgement in his lower defiles, he wasalways the last combatant of our party on the field.I do not remember of ever being so much divertedby any scene I ever witnessed, or laughing so im¬moderately as I have done, at seeing Oscar involvedin a moving cloud of wild bees, wheeling, snappingon all sides, and shaking his ears incessantly.14The sagacity which this animal possessed is al«most incredible, while his undaunted spirit andgenerosity it would do honour to every servant ofour own species to copy. Twice did he save hismaster’s life; at one time when attacked by afurious bull, and at another time when he fell frombehind my father, off a horse into a flooded river.Oscar had just swimmed across, but instantly plung¬ed in a second time to his master’s rescue. Hefirst got hold of his bonnet, but that coming off, hequitted it, and again catching him by the coat,brought him to the side in safety, where my fatherreached him. He wakened Duncan at a certainhour every morning, and would frequently turnthe cows of his own accord when he observed themwrong. If Duncan dropped his knife, or any othersmall article, he would fetch it along in his mouth ;and if sent back for any lost thing, would infalliblyfind it. When sixteen years of age, after beingunwell for several days, he died one night below hismaster’s bed. On the evening before when Duncancame in from the plough,—he came from his hid¬ing place, wagged his tail, licked Duncan’s hand, andreturned to his death-bed. Duncan and I lament¬ed him with unfeigned sorrow, buried him belowthe old rowan tree at the back of my father’s garden,placing a square stone at his head, which was stillstanding the last time I was there. By the timethat we were recalled from school to herd the cowsnext summer, we could both read the Bible withconsiderable facility, but Duncan far excelled mein perspicacity; and so fond was he of readingBible history, that the reading of it was now ourconstant amusement. Often have Mary, and he,and I, lain under the same plaid, by the side of thecorn or meadow, and read chapter about on the15Bible for hours together, weeping over the failingsand fall of good men, and wondering at the incon¬ceivable might of the heroes of antiquity. Neverwas man delighted as Duncan was when he came tothe history of Samson, and afterwards of David andGoliath; he could not be satisfied until he had readit with every individual with whom he was ac¬quainted, judging it to be as new and as interestingto every one as 'it was to himself. I have seen himstanding by the girls as they were milking thecows, reading to them the feats of Samson; and, inshort, harrassing every person about the hamlet,for audience. On Sundays, my parents accom¬panied us to the fields, and joined in our delightfulexercise.Time passed away, and so also did our youthfuldelights ; but other cares and other pleasures await¬ed us. As we advanced in years and strength, wequitted the herding, and bore a hand in the laboursof the farm. Mary, too, was often our assistant,She and Duncan were nearly of an age—he wastall, comely, and affable ; and if Mary was not theprettiest girl in the parish, at least Duncan and Ibelieved her to be so, which with us, amounted tothe same thing. We often compared the othergirls in the parish with one another as to theirbeauty and accomplishment, but to think of com¬paring any of them with Mary was entirely out ofthe question. She was, indeed, the emblem oftruth, simplicity, and innocence, and if there werefew more beautiful, there were still fewer so goodand amiable ; but still as she advanced in years,she grew fonder and fonder of being near Duncan ;and by the time she was nineteen, was so deeply inlove, that it affected her manner, her spirits, andher health, At one time she was gay and frisky as1(5a kitten; she would dance, sing, and laugh violent*ly at the most trivial incidents. At other timesshe was silent and sad, while a languishing softnessoverspread her features, and added greatly to hercharms. The passion was undoubtedly mutual be¬tween them ; but Duncan either from a sense ofhonour, or some other cause, never declared himselffarther on the subject, than by the most respectfulattention and tender assiduities.About forty years ago the flocks of southern sheepwhich have since that period inundated the High¬lands, had not found their way over the Grampianmountains, and the native flocks of that sequestrat¬ed country where so scanty, that it was found ne¬cessary to transport small quantities of wool annuallyto the north, to furnish materials for clothing theinhabitants. During two months of each summer,the hilly countries of the Lowlands were inundatedby hundreds of woman from the Highlands, whobartered small articles of dress, and of domestic im¬port, for wool; these were known by the name ofnorlan' netties ; and few nights passed, during thewool season, that some of them were not lodged atmy father’s house. It was from two of these thatDuncan learned one day that he was laird of Glen-ellich’s only son and heir, and that a large sumhad been offered to any person that could discoverhim. My parents certainly rejoiced in Duncan'sgood fortune, yet they were disconsolate at partingwith him; for he had long ago become as a son oftheir own : and I seriously believe, from the daythey first met, to that on which the two norlan' net-ties came to our house, they never once entertainedthe idea of parting. For my part, I wished thatthe netties had never been born, or that they hadstaid at their own home ; for the thoughts of being1/separated from my dear friend made me sick atheart. All our feelings were, however, nothing,compared with those of my sister Mary.One day at dinner time, after a long and sullenpause, my father said, ‘ I hope you do not intendto leave us soon, Duncan ?’ ‘ I am thinking ofgoing away to-morrow, Sir,’ said Duncan. Theknife fell from my mother’s hand : she looked himsteadily in the face for the space of a minute.—‘ Duncan,’ said she, her voice faultering, and thetears dropping from her eyes, ‘ Duncan, I neverdurst ask you before, but I hope you will not leaveus altogether ?’ Duncan thrust the plate from be¬fore him into the middle of the table—took up abook that lay on the window, and looked over thepages--Mary left the room. No answer was re¬turned, nor any further inquiry made, and ourlittle party broke up in silence.When we met again in the evening, we werestill all sullen. My father said, ‘ You will soonforget us, Duncan: but there are some among uswho will not so soon forget you.’ Mary again leftthe room, and silence ensued, until the family werecalled together for evening worship.The next morning, after a restless night, Dun¬can rose early, put on his best suit, and packed upsome little articles to carry with him. I lay pant¬ing and trembling, but pretended to be fast asleep.When he was ready to depart he took his bundlebelow his arm, came up to the side of the bed, andlistened if I was sleeping. He then stood longhesitating, looking wistfully to the door and thento me alternately ; and I saw him three or fourtimes wipe his eyes. At length he shook me gentlyby the shoulder and asked if I was awake. I feign¬ed to start, and answered as if half asleep. ‘ I must18bid you farewell,’ said be, groping to get bold ofmy hand. ‘ Will you not breakfast with us Dun¬can,’ said I. ‘ No,’ said lie, ‘ I am thinking thatit is best to steal away, for it will break my heartto take leave of your parents, and—‘ And whoDuncan?’ said I. ‘And you,’ said he: ‘indeed,but it is best Duncan,’ said I, ‘we will all break¬fast together for the last time, and then take aformal and kind leave of each other. We didbreakfast together, and as the conversation turnedon‘former days, it became highly interesting tous all. When my father had returned thanksto heaven for our meal, we knew what was com¬ing, and began to look at each other. Duncan rose,and after we had all loaded him with our blessingsand warmest wishes, he embraced my parents andme. He turned about. His eyes said plainly,there is somebody still wanting, but his heart wasso full he could not speak. ‘ What is become ofMary V said my father;—Mary was gone. Wesearched the house, the garden, and the houses ofall the cottagers, but she was no where to be found,1’oor lovelorn forsaken Mary. She had hid her¬self in the ancient yew that grows in front of theold ruin, that she might see her lover depart,without herself being seen, and might indulge inall the luxury of woe.1 must pass over Duncan’s journey to the northHighlands, for want of room ; but on the eveningof the sixth day after leaving my father’s house, hereached the mansion-house of Glenellich, whichstands in a little beautiful woody strath, command¬ing a view of the Den, Caledonian Sea, and partof the Hebrides : every avenue, tree, and rock, wasyet familiar to Duncan’s recollection. He had,without discovering himself, learned from a peasant19that his father was still alive, but that he hadmever overcome the loss of his son, for whom helamented every day; that his wife and daughterlorded it over him, holding his pleasure at nought,and rendering his age extremely unhappy ; thatfthey had expelled all his old farmers and vassals ;and introduced the lady’s vulgar presumptuousrelations, who neither paid him rents, honour, norobedience.I Old Glenellich was taking his evening walk onthe road by which Duncan descended the strath tohis dwelling. He was pondering on his own mis¬fortunes and did not even deign to lift his eyes aslithe stranger approached, but seemed counting the(number of marks which the horse’s hoofs had madeon the way. 'Good e’en to you, Sir,’ said Duncan;'—the old man started and stared him full in theface, but with a look so unsteady and harrassed,Eijthat he seemed incapable of distinguishing anylineament or feature of it. ‘Good e’en,’said he[Swiping his brow with his arm, and passing by.—iWhat there was in the voice that struck him so(forcibly it is hard to say. Nature is powerfulDuncan could not think of ought to detain him;and being desirous of seeing how matters went onI'iabout the house, thought it best to remain some[mays incog. He went into the fore-kitchen, con-Ijversed freely with the servants, and soon saw his(Otepmother and sister appear. The former had alllithe insolence and pride of vulgarity raised to wealth,:and eminence ; the other seemed naturally of anamiable disposition, but was entirely ruled by herimother who taught her to disdain her father, allibis relations, and whomsoever he loved. On theisame evening he came into the kitchen, where she(then was chatting with Duncan, to whom she20seemed attached at first sight. Lexy, my dear issaid he, did you see my spectacles ? Yes, said she nI think I saw them on your nose to-day, at breakfast. Well, but I have lost them since, said heYou may take up the next you find. Sir, said she—The servants laughed. I might well have knowwhat information I would get of you, said he regretfully. How can you speak in such a style iyour father, my dear lady? said Duncan. Ifwere he, I would place you where you would learbetter manners. And it ill becomes so prettyyoung lady to address an old father thus. Hsaid she, who minds him ? He’s a dotard, an olwhining, complaining, superannuated being, worsthan a child. But consider his years, said Duecan, and besides, he may have met with crosseand losses sufficient to sour the temper of a youngeman. You should at all events, pity and reverencebut never despise your father. The old lady nojoined them. You have yet heard nothing, younman, said the old laird, if you saw how my heaiis sometimes wrung. Yes, I have had losses indeec)You losses! said his spouse, No ; you never had anlosses that did not in the end turn out a vast profiDo you then count the loss of a loving wife andson nothing ? said he. But have you not got a lo'ing wife and a daughter in their room ? returneshe ; the one will not waste your fortune as a prodigal son would have done and the other will take caiof both you and that, when you can no longereither—the loss of your son, indeed; it was tigreatest blessing you could have received. Unfeeiing woman, said he ; but heaven may yet resto:that son to protect the grey hairs of his old fathe:and lay his head in an honoured grave.—The olman’s spirits were quite gone—he cried like a child21his lady mimicked him—and, at this, his daugh¬ter and the servants raised a laugh. Inhumanwretches said Duncan, starting up, and pushingthem aside, thus to mock the feelings of an old maneven although he were not the lord and master ofyou all; hut take notice, the individual among yonall that dares to offer such another insult to him.I’ll roast on the fire. The old man clung to him,and looked at him ruefully in the face. You im¬pudent beggarly vagabond! said the lady, do youknow to whom you speak?—servants turn thatwretch out of the house, and haunt him with allthe dogs in the kennel. Softly, good lady, saidDuncan, take care that I do not turn you out ofthe house. Alas, good youth, said the old laird,you little know what you are about; for mercy’ssake forbear : you are brewing vengeance both foryourself and me. Fear not said Duncan. I willprotect you with my life. Pray, may I ask youwhat is your name ? said the old man, still lookingearnestly at him. That you may, replied Duncan,no man has so good a right to ask any thing of meas you have—I am Duncan Campbell, your ownson ! M-m-my son! exclaimed the old man, andsunk back on a seat with a convulsive moan.Duncan held him in his arms—he soon recovered,and asked many incoherent questions—looking atthe two moles on his right leg—kissed him, andthen wept on his bosom for joy. O God of heaven,said he, it is long since I could thank thee heartilyfor any thing; now I do thank thee indeed, for Ihave found my son, my dear and only son.Contrary to what might have been expected,Duncan’s pretty only sister, Lexy, rejoiced mostof all in his discovery. She was almost wild withjoy at finding such a brother. The old lady, her22wether, was said to have wept bitterly in private, !but knowing that Duncan would be her master,she behaved to him with .civility and respect.Every tiling was committed to his management-and ho soon discovered, that besides a good clear |estate, his father had personal funds to a greatamount. The halls and cottages of Glenellick werefilled with feasting, joy, and gladness.It was not so at my father’s house. Misfortuneseldom comes singly. Scarcely had our feelingsovercome the shock, which they received by theloss of our beloved Duncan, when a more terriblemisfortune overtook. My father, by the monstrousingratitude of a friend whom we trusted, lost atonce the greater part of his hard earned fortune.The blow came unexpectedly, and distracted hispersonal affairs to such a degree, that an arrange¬ment seemed almost totally impracticable. Hestruggled on with securities for several months ;but perceiving that he was drawing his real friendsinto danger, by their signing of bonds which homight never be able to redeem, he lost heart en¬tirely, and yielded to the torrent. Mary’s mindseemed to gain fresh energy every day. The ac¬tivity and diligence which she evinced in managingthe affairs of the farm, and even in giving advicewith regard to other matters, is quite incredible :—often have I thought what a treasure that inesti¬mable girl would have been to an industrious manwhom sho loved. All our efforts availed nothing,my father received letters of horning on bills to alarge amount, and we expected every day that he |would bo taken from us and dragged to prison.We were all sitting in our little room one day.Consulting what was best to be done—we could de¬cide upon nothing, for our case was desperate—we23wtro fallen into ft kind of stupor, but the windowocing up, a sight appeared that quickly thrilled3vcry heart with the keenest sensation of anguish.Two men came riding sharply up by the back ofhe old school house. Yonder are the officers ofjustice now, said my mother, what shall we do?We hurried to the window, and all of us soon dis-•erned that they were no other than some attorney,iccompanied by a sheriff’s officer. My motheruntreated of my father to escape and hide himselfuntil this first storm was overblown, but he wouldn nowise consent, assuring us that he had donenothing of which he was ashamed, and was deter¬mined to meet every one face to face, and let themilo their worst: so finding all our entreaties vain, we•ould do nothing but sit down and weep. Atlength wo heard the noise of their horses at thei floor. You had better take the men’s horses,nlames, said my father, as their is no other man attnand. We will stay till they rap, if you please,said I. The cautious officer did not however rap,lout afraid lest his debtor should make his escape,oe jumped lightly from his horse, and hasted intoLohe house. When we heard him open the outer; loor, and his footsteps approaching along the entry,lour hearts fainted within us—he opened the doormnd stepped into the room—it was Duncan! ourDwn dearly beloved Duncan. The women utteredan involuntary scream of surprise, but my fatherran and got hold of one hand and I of the other—;ny mother too, soon had him in her arms, but ournmbrace was short, for his eyes fixed on Mary,i<rho stood trembling with joy and wonder in a corner!>f the room, changing her colour every moment—hei snatched her up in his arms and kissed her lips, and&we ever she was aware, her arms had encircled hisneck. 0 my dear Mary, said he, my heart hebeen ill at ease since I left you, hut I durst not thetell you a word of my mind, for I little knew hoI was to find affairs in the place where I was going ,(but ah, you little elusive rogue, you owe manother for the one you cheated me out of then ;saying, he pressed his lips again to her cheek, anthen lead her to a seat. Duncan then recountehis adventures to us, with every circumstance <his good fortune—our hearts were uplifted almoipast bearing—all our cares and sorrows were noforgotten, and we were once more the happie:little group that ever perhaps sat together. Befoithe cloth was laid for dinner, Mary ran out to pcon her white gown and comb her yellow hair, buwas surprised at meeting with a smart youngentleman in the kitchen, with a scarlet neck ohis coat, and a gold laced hat. Mary having nevejseen so fine a gentleman, made him a low courtesand offered to conduct him to the room: butsmiled, and told her he was the squire’s servanwe had all of us forgot to ask for the gentlemajthat came with Duncan.Duncan and Mary walked for two hours in thgarden that evening ; we did not know what passbetween them, but the next day he asked her i:marriage of my parents, and never will I forgthe supreme happiness and gratitude that beamein every face on that happy occasion. I need natell my readers that my father’s affairs were sooiretrieved, or that I accompanied my dear Marybride to the Highlands, and had the satisfactio:of saluting her as Mrs. Campbell, and lady cGlcnellich.FINIB.