aTHELIFE,J HVwmsA&g, # gi3gmGww%Qit$OFMARY THOMPSON,AGED NINETEEN, WHO WAS EXECUTED ATYORK,ON THE 22nb. MARCH,FOR THE MURDER OF HER MASTER AND MISTRESS,WITH AN ACCOUNT OF HER INNOCENCE BEING PROVEDAND THE BEAD MURDERER DISCOVERED.n Giii (>•*•» ;jii t'lfd ,r-.\ ‘ ■ < t,,...G. Caldwell, Printer, 2, New Street, Paislrc,Price One Penny.1841.ttmi'oi jit, oj jiiuEu au m^n E9uot, w&bnoWiTH EI.IFK, TMIAIi, EXKCFTIOar,OFPZAMW TBVimpSQXF',The master ami mistress of the above female were mostinhumanly butchered, by having their throats cut from earto ear. This young woman had lived as servant withthese aged and unfortunate people for upwards of sevenyears, and was mnch esteemed by all who knew her; andbv her general good conduct, had gained the confidenceof these with whom she lived, who entrusted her with themanagement of their affairs, and placed the greatest con¬fidence in her honesty. They had kept a large Inn in thevicinity of York for a number of years, but had, a shorttime since, retired to a small pot-house to pass the re¬mainder of their days in greater quietude than the bustleof an Inn pewnitted. It was the practice of the old coupleto retire to rest about nine o’clock at night, and rise aboutthe same time in the morning, leaving everything in thecharge of the servant. Not having any children of theirownrit was generally believed that her master would be¬have handsomely to her, provided she married accordingto his wishes. This secured her a number of lovers, a-mongst whom was a young man named Jones, who wasmost assiduous in his attention towards her, and behavingwith the greatest propriety, he soon became a favouritewith the old couple.On Monday Jones went as usual to the house, andwhen the company had left and the old pair retired to rest,tha servant sat with him by the kitchen fire; she had oc¬casion to leave the kitchen a short time, and on her returnsshe missed him. Hearing a noise, she ran up stairs to hermaster’s room where, to her great terror, she found thedrawers plundered, and her master and mistress lyingwith their throats cut, and the blood gushing in torrentsfrom the wounds. She immediately threw up a frontwindow and gave the alarm, and the neighbours entering,suspicion fell upon her, no one being in the house but her,and from constancy to her lover, she permitted herself tobe fully committed for trial At the late assizes she wasarraigned, convicted, and sentenced to be hung.At the place of execution she addressed the numerousby-standers as follows:—Good People,—You are now come to see the latter endof a poor unfortunate young woman nineteen years of age,who is brought to an ignominous death for murder; butI say there is a just God that sitteth in the judgementseat of heaven, before whom I must shortly appear to an¬swer for all my sins. I most solemnly declare before Godand the world, that I am as innocent of the murder as thechild unborn, and then she burst into tears.After this she prayed with the minister, sung a peni¬tential psalm, and kneeling down she prayed that the Al¬mighty would convince the assembled multitude of herinnocenoy or guilt by showing them the following mira¬cles,— That if she was guilty it might he one of the finestdays that could come from heaven; hut if she was inno¬cent, that darkness might overspread the town during thetime she was suspended. Her supplication reached thethrone of Grace ; for immediately on her being turned oft'a dark thick cloud covered the country for many miles,attended with thunder, lightning, and rain. Jones, whowas a spectator, stung with guilt and horror, rushedthrough the crowd exclaiming,“1 AM THE MURDERER!’and delivered himself into the hands of justice. He fullyconfessed his guilt, and declared the murder was not pre¬meditated, but he was struck with a desire to gain theirriches, and he intended to have murdered his sweetheartalso- He was fully committed for trial at the next assizes.COPY OF VERSES WRITTEN IN JAIL.1 VI : ! < J I O-H • I !>-) jYou servant girls, both far and near,I pray you to attend,And, be advis'd by these few linesWhich I in jail have penn’d.While you are in your master’s house,If you’ll be rul’d by me,Don’t let your sweethearts come by night,A-iioiirting unto thee.* ii'i ' i> lei-'J’lD'ts; *.'U 1 liOi .He might have a dishonest heart,Likewise a murdering hand;The devil and his subtile waysAre hard to understand.After you peruse this book,I hope that you will guardAgainst a similar overthrow,You see what’s my reward.To die upon the gallows treeFor what I never did,May it not happen unto thee,I pray not, God forbid.May God still give you grace to choose,While you’re in single life,To fix upon a proper man,To whom you’ll be a wife.Oh ! you that have not hearts of stone,Attend to what I say,For death has seal’d my earthly doom,And summon’d me away.! j l v’l i l vll v 1 * » 1. i ’ i V > i i •Alas! this dreadful fate of mine,That I should die in scorn,Although as guiltless of the crimeAs is the babe unborn.. , .. -i ; >5To atone for blood I never shed,In midst of youth and bloom,I to the fatal scaffold led,Must meet the murderer’s doom.And while I stand exposed there,Before the knot is tied,My in»ocence I will declareTo all the world beside.'•*0111 x> ann ,.!*(;• ojoT Hfit 10 td^io ndtFarewell my aged mother dear.Your tender heart is broke;Alas ! you’ll never live I fear,To bear this cruel stroke.• I «»'!' n lit ‘ It ]h v*5 i tWhat would your tender bosom feel,To see your darling child,I hat you had nourish’d at your breast.Brought to an end so vile.Before my eyes are clos’d I pray,And Heaven my prayers hear,My innocence may be reveal’d,And be as noon day clear.And bring the hand to light,Who did ths horrid deed,That all may know poor Mary ThompsonWas innocent indeed. 1 >, , I- in'- !'!;•,[ a :She met her ignominious death,Resign’d to her hard fate,But scarce had yielded up her breath,When awful to relate,- ‘VIMV nt*7/ ^/iMUflf'lt I » . . rl'V • «A man confess’d unto the crime,For which the maiden died,And now in irons he is coafined,His trial to abide.ft6MELANCHOLY LOSS OF LIFE BY FIRE.On the night of the 16th inst., one of those alarmingand somewhat mysterious dispensations of Divine Provi¬dence, without whose permission, we are told, a sparrowcannot fall to the ground, took place in a flax mill, situ¬ate about ten minutes walk from Kilmarnock, belongingto Mr. Daniel M‘Larrey. At the time the very calami¬tous event occurred to wnich I am about to refer, therewere at work in the mill, the owner, four men, and twogirls, in all seven persons. It would appear that about8 or 9 o’clock one of the girls went out to enter the lan¬tern, which in flax-mills is prudently so constructed as notto admit of any communication with the interior of themill, and therefore must be entered from the outside, tosnuff the caudle, which she did with her fingers, and oncasting the snuff from her it entered a small crevice ormouse-hole, communicating, it would appear, with thefloor of the mill, and falling through, rested on the veryignitable material with which such floors are usually cov¬ered, which immediately took fire. The blazj was ob¬served by the owner, who instantly made an effort to ex¬tinguished it by throwing a leathern apron over it, andthought he had succeeded, but in this alas ! he was mis¬taken, as in a second or two, it burst forih with increasedforce, the motion of the wipers adding to the fury of thedevouring element, and in a few minutes not only the flaxbut the poor creatures themselves, who were covered withthe waste of the flax, were enveloped in the flames. Atthis time, as all hope of getting the fire under w'as past, asimultaneous rush was made to the door, which unfortun¬ately had, contrary to custom, been locked by the girl onher return from snuffing the candle ; but owing to the ex-ritement consequent on their situation, now that thejrwere literally roasting alive, as one of the poor fellows ex¬pressed to me afterwards, joined to the sense of suffoca¬tion at this time experienced, it was sometime before anyone of them could lay his hand on the key—but this donethe poor fellow, in his maddened eagerness to get it turn¬ed, pulled it out of the lock, and it falling from his hand,protracted their sufferings, and made their situation stillmore perilous. But as God would have it (a few secondsor at most a very few minutes more, and all wouhi havebeen over with them) the key was found, the door unlock¬ed, and as many as could, rushed out, but some of them,I understand, had to return to drag out the remainder ofthe sufferers, who, having been overpowered by the flameand smoke, had fallen down. All got out, but so dread¬fully burnt, chiefly about the head and limbs, as to pre¬sent the most harrowing spectacle of human suffering thatcan be well conceived, the faces of most of them present¬ing one mass of broiled flesh, having a cinder like appear¬ance. The owner, on getting out, cast himself on theground, and rolled into a small stream of water whichruns from the mill; and having thus extinguished theblaze in which he was, got out, and though fearfullyburnt, struggled to reach that part of the dam where thewater is let on to the mill, and contrived to turn off thewheel, which facilitated the efforts now made to stay theprogress of the fire, in the mill, and which after sometime, was completely subdued, hut not before considera¬ble damage had been done bo the roof and the interiorworks of the mill. 1 should mention, that as the millstands at some distance from any dwelling-house, the sit¬uation of the sufferers was quite unknown until after theyhad extricated themselves from the flames, when theircries being heard, assistance was promptly and speedilyrendered by those drawn to the spot. They were convey¬ed as soon as possible to their respective homes, whereimmediate medical aid was rendered by Mr. R. N., themedical superintendent of our dispensary, Dr. Jones beingengaged in some other quarter at the time, but who, on8f+At Jcdi w -n ,i;oiteuliK lisiil 1«| O * |laaoiing tfip, tsad occurrence, was prom ptly on the spot*and both have been unwearied in their endeavours to al¬leviate, as far as possible, the pain of the sufferers, whowere, with the exception of Mr. M'Larrey, removed in aday or two to the hospital. One of the poor girls, aged17, died tjie second day after, in great agony; the suffer¬ings of her sister, who had just reached her 15th year thepight of the burning, were prolonged till yestarday, whenshe also was released from them by death. Both weredaughters of one of the sufferers, who has besides fivechildren, all young. The remaining five are going on aswefl as can be expected, and it is hoped that the meansresorted to will, under Providence, restore them to theirfamilies. I em glad to be able to add that the inhabitantsof the town and neighbourhood have come forward prompt¬ly, as. might be expected, to manifest their sympathy forthe sufferers.I\