LIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.Robert Bruce, king of Scotland, was born 21stMarch, 1274, at the Castle of Turnberry, in thecounty of Ayr. The family of Bruce was of Nor¬man origin, and his father married the Countess ofCarrick, by whom he had four sons and sevendaughters. The eldest son, Robert, the hero ofour story, had the title of Earl of Carrick, and after¬wards became king of Scotland.Edward the First of England, a brave and power¬ful prince, had prevailed upon the weak and timidJohn Baliol to resign the crown of Scotland, andhaving also cruelly put to death the renowned hero,Sir William Wallace, who had been treacherouslydelivered into his hands, took possession of the dif¬ferent strongholds of the country, with the intentionof annexing Scotland to the English crown. Butthe people everywhere rose against the usurper, anddetermined to relieve themselves from the gallingyoke of the English. Such of the nobles as thoughtthey had a right to the vacant throne, stood forwardto claim it; and among the competitors for the regalhonour were Robert Bruce, Earl of Carrick—whosegrandfather had formerly disputed the throne withJohn Baliol — and John Comyn, of Badenoch,generally styled the Red Comyn, to distinguish himfrom his kinsman, the Black Comyn, so called fromhis swarthy complexion. These powerful baronshad assisted the immortal Wallace in the warsagainst England; but after the defeat at Falkirk,4LIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.they not only acknowledged Edward as king of Scot¬land, but bore arms against their patriotic country¬men, who resolved rather to die in defence of theirrights, than submit to the tyrant’s sway.Bruce’s feelings are believed to have been rousedby the following incident:—In one of the battleswhich took place between the English and the Scotch,Bruce had assisted the former in gaining the victory.After the battle, he sat down to dinner without wash-ing his hands, on which were spots of blood, whichhe had shed during the action. “ Look at thatScotchman,” whispered some of the English to theirmessmates, “ eating his own blood ” Bruce felt thecutting remark, and, reflecting that it might well bestyled his own blood, seeing it was that of his coun¬trymen, who were struggling for their national in¬dependence, rose from table, and vowed that he woulduse every exertion to deliver his country from theiron yoke of Edward. He accordingly enteredinto an agreement with the Bishop of St. Andrew’s,as head of the Scottish Church, whereby they boundthemselves to assist each other against all personswhatsoever, and neither to undertake any businessof importance without the consent of the other. Hehad also a conference with Comyn, at which he pro¬posed that they should thenceforward entertain feel¬ings of friendship towards each other. “ Support,”said Bruce, “ my title to the crown, and I will giveyou all my lands ; or bestow on me your lauds, andI will support your claim.’’ Comyn accepted theformer proposal, and an agreement having beendrawn up, it was sealed by both parties. Comyn,however, revealed the secret to Edward, who re¬solved on revenge; and, having drank freely oneevening, discovered his intention to some of thenobles of his court. The Earl of Gloucester, a kins-LIFE OF KING ROBEKT BRUCE.5man of Bruce, had notice of his friend’s danger, and,anxious to save him, yet afraid to compromise hisown safety, sent him a purse of gold and a pair ofspurs. Bruce, understanding the hint, had hishorses shod with their shoes inverted, that the traceson the snow might baffle his pursuers, and immedi¬ately set out for Scotland, accompanied by his se¬cretary and a single attendant. Arriving at Dum¬fries, he assembled his friends and all the nobles,who promised their aid ; but Comyn having endea¬voured to dissuade them from so desperate an under¬taking, Bruce sought a private interview with him.The meeting took place in the church of Dumfries,before the high altar, and Bruce having reproachedComyn for his treachery, drew his dagger and stab¬bed him to the heart. Hastening from the spot, hecalled for his attendants, who, seeing him pale andagitated, inquired the cause. “I doubt,” said Bruce,“ that I have slain the Red Comyn.” “ Do youleave such a matter to doubt?” cried Kirkpatrickfiercely; “ I’se mak’ siccar,”—that is, I will makesure—and accordingly he and Lindsay dispatchedhim with their daggers.Bruce had thus committed an action which wassure to bring upon him the vengeance of all Comyn’srelations, the resentment of the king of England,and the displeasure of the church, for slaying hisenemy within consecrated ground. He therefore de¬termined at Once to bid them defiance, and assert hisright to the Scottish throne. For this purpose, he sum¬moned his own followers, together with the baronswho still entertained hopes of their country’s free¬dom, and was crowned king at Scone. Edward wasdreadfully incensed when he heard of this new at¬tempt to shake off his authority, and solemnly de¬clared in presence of his court, that he would be re-6LIFE OF KINO ROBERT BRUCE.venged on Bruce and Iris followers. The com¬mencement of Bruce's undertakings was most un¬favourable. Two months after he was crowned hewas completely defeated at Methven, near Perth;and his horse having been killed under him in theaction, he was made prisoner by a Scottish knight,who, though he served in the English army, did notwish any harm to Bruce, and allow’ed him to escape.After the defeat at Methven, Bruce, with a fewadherents, retired to the-highland mountains, wherethey were placed in great danger, and endured manyhardships. Bruce’s wife, with several ladies, ac¬companied her consort and his little band duringtheir wanderings. Driven from one place in thehighlands to another, Bruce attempted to force hisway into Lorn; but the M‘Dougals, then calledlords of Lorn, were friendly to Edward, and, puttingtheir men in arms, attacked and defeated Bruce ata place called Dairy. Having directed his men toretreat through a narrow pass, Bruce placed himselflast of the party, and fought with and slew such ofthe enemy as pressed hard on them. Three of theM‘Dougals, a father and two sons, all strong men,seeing Bruce protecting the retreat of his men,vowed that they would either kill or make him pris¬oner, and the whole three rushed on the king atonce. The first man that seized his reins, Brucestruck such a blow with his sword as cut off his hand,and freed the bridle ; the other brother seized him1by the leg, and attempted to unhorse him, but theking, setting spurs to his stred, made the animalsuddenly spring forward, so that the Highlanderfell under the horse’s feet, and, as he was endea¬vouring to rise, the king cleft his head in two. Thefather, seeing the melancholy fate of his two sons,flew at the king, and grasped him by the mantle soLIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE. 7close to his body that he had not room to wield hissword; but he dashed his brains out with a hammerthat hung' at his saddle-bow. The Highlander stillkept his dying grasp on the king’s mantle, and toextricate himself from the dead body, he was obligedto undo the clasp by which it was fastened, andleave that and the mantle behind him. The claspis still in the possession of the family of Lorn, wdioretain it as a memorial that the celebrated RobertBruce once narrowly escaped falling into the handsof one of their forefathers-Bruce met with many such encounters during hiswanderings; but kept up his spirits and those of hiscompanions with the hope of better times—recount¬ing to them adventures of princes who had beenplaced in similar circumstances. Dangers at lastincreased so much around the brave king Robert,that he found it necessary to part from his queen,whom he left, with the Countess of Buchan andothers, at Kildrummie Castle, in Aberdeenshire,Nigel Bruce, his youngest brother, remaining to de¬fend the Castle against the English. The king,with his remaining followers, amounting to nearly200, determined to force a passage into Kintyre ;from whence, after recruiting their strength andspirits, they passed over to the north coast of Ireland,where tfiey remained during the winter of 1306. Inthe meantime, ill luck seemed to pursue his friendsin Scotland. The English took Kildrummie Castle,and cruelly murdered Nigel Bruce, a brave andbeautiful youth ; while the queen and her attend¬ants were thrown into prison, and treated with thegreatest cruelty. One morning, after receivingthose unpleasant news from Scotland, he was lyingon his bed deliberating whether he had not betterresign all thoughtsof the Scottish crown,and proceed*5 LIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.to tlie Holy Land to fight against the Saracens, whenhe perceived a large spider, which, hanging at theend of a long thread of its own spinning, was endea¬vouring to swing itself from one beam in the xmof toanother, for the purpose of fixing the line on whichit meant to stretch its web. It made the attemptagain and again without success; and at lengthBruce counted that it had endeavoured six times tocarry its point, and had as often failed. He thoughtthat he had fought six battles against the English,and that the poor spider was exactly in the same sit¬uation with himself, having made as many trials, andbeen as often disappointed. “Now,’’thought Bruce,“ as I have no means of knowing what is best to bedone, I will be guided by the luck which shall at¬tend this spider. If it shall make another effort tofix its thread, and shall be successful, I will venturea seventh time to try my fortune; but if it shall fail,I will go to the wars in Palestine, and return to mynative land no more.’’ While Bruce was formingthis resolution, the spider made another effort, andsucceeded in fastening its thread on the beam. Be¬holding the spider’s success, Bruce resolved again totry his fortune ; and, as he never gained a victorybefore, so he never afterwards sustained any con¬siderable defeat.On the approach of spring, Sir James Douglasand Sir Robert Boyd left the king and passed overto the island of Arran ; and a few days afterwards,Bruce arrived from Rathlin with a fleet of 33 smallgalleys, and he immediately began to form planswith Douglas how they might best renew their en¬terprise against the English. The king now openeda communication with the opposite coast of Garrick,by means of one of his followrers named Cuthbert,whom he sent over to ascertain how his countrymenLIFE OF KING KOBEUT liRCCE.9felt towards him. It was agreed that, if they werefavourable to him, he was to make a fire on a head¬land, called Turnberry, facing the Island of Arran.Bruce and his companions eagerly watched for thesignal, but for some time in vain. A fire on Turn-berry-head at length became visible, and the kingand his men, about 300 in number, betook themselvesto their galleys, and hastened over to Carrick coast.Landing on the beach about midnight, they foundCuthbert waiting their arrival, who informed Brucethat there was little chance of help from his subjects.“ Traitor !’’ cried Bruce, “ why did you make thesignal, then ? ” “ The fire was not made by me,”replied Cuthbert; “ but as soon as I perceived it, Ihastened to warn you from the coast.’’ Bruce de¬termined to take such fortune as Heaven should bepleased to send him. He succeeded in taking thecastle of Turnberry from Lord Percy, and in dis¬missing the English from Carrick ; he also tookfrom the English the castle of Inverness, which wasstrongly situated on a high rock by the river Ness.During these frequent skirmishes, Bruce was ex¬posed to great dangers, and often ran the risk oflosing his life by treachery or open violence. Sev¬eral interesting incidents are related concerning himat this period. Amongst others, it is related that,after being defeated by John of Lorn, he was obligedto separate himself from his friends, and fleewith his foster-brother into the woods. Here hehad no rest, for they brought a blood-hound, whichoriginally belonged to Bruce, to trace his steps. Hewas accordingly hotly pursued, and whenever he at¬tempted to take rest, though sorely fatigued, the cryof the blood-hound was heard behind him. At lengthhe came to a small stream, when it occurred to. Bruce that, by wading down the stream, he might10LIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.cause the dog to lose the scent. This was completelysuccessful, for the dog was puzzled when he came tothe banks of the stream, and the king succeeded inmaking his escape. His adventures, however, werenot yet ended. His foster-brother and he havingrested themselves in the woods, pursued their jour¬ney in the hopes of soon reaching a habitation wherethey might get some refreshment. In the midst ofthe forest they met three men, who had the appear¬ance of ruffians or thieves, and were all well armed.One of them had a sheep on his back, which theyhad just stolen from a neighbouring field. Havingcivilly saluted the king, he inquired whither theywere going. “We are seeking for king Robert,''answered the ruffians, “ for we intend joining hisstandard.” “ If you will go with me,’’ said Bruce,“ I will conduct you to the Scottish king; but as weare strangers to each other, you will have the good¬ness to go first, and we will follow.” “ You haveno occasion to dread any harm from us,” replied :the man. “ I do not suspect any,” said Bruce,“ but this is the way in which I choose to travel.” 1They walked on till they reached a ruinous cottage,where the ruffians proposed dressing part of thesheep. Having kindled two fires, one at each endof the house, they broiled part of the sheep, whichproved very acceptable to the king and his foster-brother. After partaking of the sheep, a heavy :drowsiness came upon the king, and, having desiredhis companion to keep his eye on their new ac¬quaintances, fell asleep; but his foster-brother,having undergone as much fatigue as the king, soonalso fell into a deep slumber. The three villains ob¬serving the king and his companion asleep, madesigns to each other, and drew their swords, intend¬ing to kill them both. Although the ruffians madeLIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.11little noise in rising, it was sufficient to awaken theking, who slept but lightly, and, starting to his feet,at the same time awakening his friend with a pushof his foot, prepared to meet his dastardly compan¬ions. Ere the king’s foster-brother was fully awake,one of the villains slew him. Bruce was now placedin a hazardous situation — three against one ; buthe overcame, and slew the three villains, one afterthe other. The day being far spent, he proceededtowards a farm house, where he had arranged 'tomeet his men after their dispersion. Arriving atthe house, he entered, and found the hostess, an old,true-hearted Scotswoman, alone. Seeing a strangerenter, she inquired who he was. Bruce replied thathe was a traveller journeying through the country.“ All travellers,” said the good woman, “ are wel¬come here for the sake of one.” “ And who is thatone,” inquired Bruce, “ for whom jou make all trav¬ellers welcome ? ” “ It is Robert Bruce, our law¬ful king,” replied the good old woman ; “and al¬though he is now pursued and hunted with houndsand horns, I trust I shall be spared to see him kingover all Scotland.” “ Since you love Robert Bruceso well, good woman,’’ replied the king, “ knowthat I am Robert Bruce.’’ “ You ! ” exclaimed thebrave old lady ; “ and wherefore are you thus alone ?—where are all your men?” “I have none withme just now,” answered Bruce, “and therefore Imust travel alone,” “ That shall not be,” said hisbrave hostess, “ for I have two stout and gallantsons, who shall be your servants for life or death.”The loyal old dame, having made her sons swear fi¬delity to their king, was preparing his supper, whensuddenly a trampling of horses was heard, whichthey at first took to be some of the enemy ; but whenthey heard the voice of Douglas and Ed ward Bruce,12LIFE OF KING KOBERT BRUCE.who had Come with 150 horsemen, they rejoiced ex¬ceedingly. Bruce being informed by Douglas thatthere were 200 English in a village that he passed,who kept no watch, rode off at the head of his littlearmy, and put the greater part of them to the swordthat very night. Pembroke shortly afterwards re¬tired with his whole forces towards England, and,after another disaster, similar to that just mentioned,retreated to Carlisle.Encouraged by success, Bruce ventured down up¬on the low country, and reduced the districts ofKyle, Carrick, and Cuninghame to his obedience.Pembroke determined again to take the field, and,putting himself at the head of a strong body of cav¬alry, he advanced into Ayrshire, and came up withthe army of Bruce, when encamped on Louden Hill.Although Bruce’s army was greatly inferior, andconsisted wholly of infantry, he gave Pembroke bat¬tle ; and so well did he conduct the conflict, thatthe loss of the Scots was extremely small, whilePembroke’s whole forces were put to flight, a con¬siderable number being slain, and many made pri¬soners. Three days after this, Bruce encounteredMonthermer, at the head of a considerable body ofEnglish, whom he also defeated with great slaughter.These successes proved of the greatest consequenceto the cause of Bruce, which was strengthened stillfurther by the death of Edward I., who died, July7, 1307, in sight of Scotland. With his last breathhe commanded that his body should accompany thearmy, until Scotland was entirely subdued ; but hisson, disregarding his injunction, buried his remainsin Westminster Abbey.Edward II. hearing of the success which attendedBruce’s career, resolved to extirpate a nation so oftenrebellious, and for this purpose raised an army ofLIFE OF ICING ROBERT BRUCE.13100,000 men. Bruce being informed of the enemy’spreparations, likewise arrayed his forces, which con¬sisted of only 30,000 men, but they were accustomedto war, and were hardened by sufferings. Withthis little army he encamped on a plain near Stir¬ling, by the village of Bannockburn, in front ofwhich was a marshy country, through which theenemy must pass. Here he caused deep ditches to bedug in the level places, in which he fixed sharp stakesin such a manner that, wbeh covered over withslight turf, the deceit was concealed.The two armies having now pitched near eachother, Edward sent 800 cavalry to relieve Stirling.Bruce supposing these were sent to plunder the ad¬joining fields, gave Thomas Randolph 500 horse tocheck the marauders and protect the country, andinstructed him not to decline fighting if he saw afavourable opportunity. The enemy, observing thisdetachment, desisted from their intended march, andwheeled upon Randolph’s party. The combat waskeenly contested, victory inclining to neither side,when James Douglas, alarmed for his countrymen,intreated Bruce to allow him to go to their assist¬ance. As Bruce had given strict orders to Ran¬dolph not to allow any succours to be thrown intoStirling, he refused him assistance. “ Let him,”said he “redeem his own fault. 1 cannot breakthe order of battle for his sake.” “ In truth,” re¬plied Douglas, “ I cannot stand by and see Randolphperish, and, therefore, with your leave, I must aidhim.’’ Bruce unwillingly consented, and Douglasflew to his friend’s assistance ; but perceiving thatthe English were falling into disorder, and thatRandolph had prevailed, he cried “ Halt 1 thosebrave men have repulsed the enemy ; let us not di¬minish their glory by sharing it.14LIFE or KING ROHEB.T BRUCE.Bruce was in front of the line when the Englishappeared. He was meanly dressed, with a crownabove his helmet, and a battle-axe in his hand. SirHenry de Bohun, an English knight, armed cap-a-pie, rode forward to encounter him. Bruce struckhis antagonist so violently with his battle-axe, thathe cleft him to the chin, after which the Englishvanguard retreated in confusion.On Monday, June 24, 1314, the whole Englisharmy moved to the attack. The van was commandedby Gilbert de Clare, Earl of Gloucester, and Hum¬phrey de Bohun. The main body was brought uphy Edward in person, attended by Aymer de Val¬ence, Earl of Pembroke, and Sir Giles d’Argentine,two experienced commanders. Maurice, ahbot ofInchaffray, celebrated mass in the sight of the Scot¬tish army. He then passed along the front, bare¬footed, with a crucifix in his hands, and, in a fewwords, exhorted the Scots to fight for their king andcountry. The Scots fell down on their knees as hepassed, which being perceived by Edward, he criedout “ They yield ! See, they ask mercy ! ” “ Theydo,” answered one of his commanders : “ they askit from God, not from us ; these men will be vic¬torious or die.” The engagement began with greatfury. Bruce, perceiving that his troops were griev¬ously annoyed by the English archers, ordered aparty of horse to attack them in flank. This wasaccomplished, and as the weapons of the archerswere useless in a close encounter, they made littleresistance. The English cavalry rushed forward tosupport their archers; but, coming over the groundwhere the ditches were dug, the horses and ridersfell into them, and a genei’al disorder ensued. Brucenow advanced with all his forces, and pressing themmore closely, the English at last gave way, and fledin every direction.LIFE OF KISG ROBERT BRDCE.15This was the greatest defeat the English eversustained from the Scots. On the side of the latter,no persons of note were slain, excepting Sir WilliamVipont and Sir Walter Ross. On the English side,the best and bravest of the nobility lay dead on thefield; many were made prisoners, and the whole ofEdward’s immense army was dispersed or destroyed.The English who had taken refuge among the rocksin the neighbourhood of Stirling, surrendered atdiscretion: the castle also surrendered, and theprivy seal of England fell into the hands of the Scot¬tish monarch. The spoils of the English camp wereimmense, and, along with the ransom of the prisonerswho fell into their hands, enriched the conquerors.After the battle of Bannockburn, the Earl ofHereford retreated to the castle of Bothwell, wherehe was besieged by Edward Bruce, and obliged tosurrender. The terror of the English was nowalmost incredible. Walsitrgham states that “ theywere so bereaved of their wonted intrepidity, that100 of that nation would have fled from two or threeScotsmen !’’Edward Bruce and Douglas entered England onthe east side, ravaged Northumberland, and laid thebishopric of Durham under contribution. Theythen proceeded to Richmond, laid Appleby andsome other towns in ashes, and returned home ladenwith plunder. The English king now summoneda parliament at York, to concert means for the pub¬lic security ; and appointed the Earl of Pembroketo be guardian of the country between the Trentand the Tweed: but the Scots continued their in¬cursions into England, and levied contributions indifferent places. In 1315, they plundered Durhamand Hartlepool, but they were repulsed from Carlisle,and failed in an attempt on Berwick.IGLIFE OF KING ROBEBT BRCCE.The Irish of Ulster, oppressed by the Englishgovernment, implored the assistance of Robert, andoffered to acknowledge his brother Edward as theirsovereign, who accordingly landed at Carrickfergus,May, 25, 1315, with 6000 men ; but the issueproved unfortunate. While the king himself wasin Ireland assisting his brother in attempting thesubjection of that country, the English had madeseveral attempts to disturb the tranquility of Scot¬land.The Earl of Arundel invaded the forest of Jed¬burgh with a numerous army ; but being drawn in¬to an ambuscade by Douglas, he was defeated withgreat loss. Edmund de Cailland, a knight of Gas¬cony, and governor of Berwick, invaded and wastedTeviotdale; but while he was returning home, la¬den with spoil, be was attacked, defeated, and killedby Douglas. The English now invaded Scotlandby sea, and anchored off Inverkeithing, in the Frithof Forth, where they soon after landed. 500 men,under the Earl of Fife, attempted to oppose theirlanding, but were intimidated by the number of theirenemies. William Sinclair, Bishop of Dunkeld,happened to meet the fugitives, and, having obligedthem to rally, he led them on again to the charge,and drove the English to their ships with consider,able loss. For this the title of “the King’s Bishop ”was conferred on Sinclair, who was long veneratedby his countrymen on account of this exploit.In 1318, king Robert proceeded in his enterpriseagainst Berwick. A citizen of that town, namedSpalding, having been ill used by the governor, re¬solved to revenge himself, and offered, on a certainnight, to betray the post when he kept guard. Thisimportant intelligence was communicated to theking, who commanded him to repair to a place, whereLIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCF..1?he gave orders to Douglas and Randolph to repairat the same hour, each with a body of troops underhis command. The forces thus assembled, marchedcautiously to Berwick, and, assisted by Spalding,scaled the walls, making themselves masters of thetown in a few hours. The garrison of the castleperceiving that the number of Scots was but small,made a desperate sally with the men who had fledinto the castle from the town ; but, after an obstin¬ate engagement, they W'ere defeated and driven back,chiefly by the extraordinary valour of a young knight,named Sir William Keith, of Galston. When Bruceheard of the success of his forces against the town,he hastened to lay siege to the castle of Berwick,which was soon obliged to capitulate ; after whichthe Scots entered Northumberland, and took pos¬session of the castles of Wark, Harbottle, and Mil¬ford.In May, 1318, they again invaded England, andpenetrated into Yorkshire. In their progress, theyburnt several towns, forcing the inhabitants to re¬deem themselves by paying lOOOmerks; after whichthey returned to Scotland with much booty, drivingtheir prisoners before them.In 1319, Edward made similar attempts, with otherpowers, to the prejudice of the Scottish nation. Herequested the Earl of Flanders to prohibit theScotch from entering his country ; but he receivedthe following remarkable reply to his letter : “Flan¬ders is the common country of all men ; I cannotprohibit any merchants from trafficking thither,' forsuch prohibition would prove the ruin of my peo¬ple.” On receipt of this communication, Edwardonce more determined to have recourse to war; andwith this view commanded his army to assemble atNewcastle-on-Tyne. Everything having been pre-18I.IFE OF KIXG ROBERT BRUCE.pared, the English army approached Berwick, whichwas commanded by Walter, grand Steward of Scot¬land. This nobleman had long apprehended an at¬tack from the English, and had taken every meansof defence in his power. The enemy, however,confiding in their numbers, made a general assault,but were repulsed, on the 7th 0f September, after amost obstinate contest. Their next attempt was onthe side towards the river. At that time the wallsof Berwick were of an inconsiderable height, and itwas proposed to bring a vessel close to them, fromwhence the troops might enter by a drawbridge ;but the Scots so annoyed the assailants, that theycould not bring the vessel within the proper dis¬tance ; and, at ebb-tide, it grounded, and was burntby the besieged. The English had then recourseto a new invention, called a sow. This was a largeengine, composed of timber, well roofed, havingstages within it, and in height surpassing the wallof the town. Jt moved on wheels, and served forthe double purpose of conveying miners to the footof the wall, and armed men to the storm. Thisgreat engine moved on to the walls, and, at length,a huge stone struck it with such force that the beamsg’ave way, and the Scots pouring down combustiblesupon it, it was burnt. The English, however, con¬tinued the attack. The Steward, with the reserveof 100 men, went from post to post, relieving- thosewho were wounded or unfit for combat. One sol¬dier only remained with him, when an alarm wasgiven that the English had burnt a barrier at theport called St. Mary’s, possessed themselves of thedrawbridge, and fired the gate. The Stewardhastened thither, called down the guard from therampart, ordered the gate to be set open, and rushedout upon the enemy. A desperate combat ensued,LIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.19and continued till the close of the day, when theEnglish commanders withdrew their troops. Not¬withstanding this brave defence, it was evident thatthe town could not hold out long without a speedyrelief; and Bruce could not, with any probability ofsuccess, attack the fortified camp of the English.He, therefore, determined to make such a diversionin England as would oblige Edward to abandon theundertaking; and ordered 15,000 men to enterEngland by the western marches, and lay Yorkshirewaste. The Archbishop of York hastily collecteda numerous body of commons and ecclesiastics, withwhom he encountered the Scots at Mitton, nearBoroughbridge. The English were routed, 3000having been left dead on the field, and a great partof those who fled perished in the Swale. In thisaction 300 ecclesiastics lost their lives.The news of this successful inroad alarmed thebesiegers of Berwick. The barons, whose estateslay to the southward, were anxious to continue thesiege; but they were opposed by those of the north,who were eager to abandon the enterprise, and re¬turn to the defence of their own country. Uponthis, Edw;ard drew off the remainder of his army,and attempted to intercept Randolph and Douglas,but they eluded him, and returned in safety to Scot¬land. The failure of this attempt induced Edwardto think of peace ; and a truce wTas concluded, De¬cember 31, 1319- The Scots made use of this in¬terval of tranquility to address a manifesto to thePope in justification of their cause, which wras drawnup in a spirited manner, and made a considerablealteration in the councils of Rome. The Pope, see¬ing that Bruce would not be terrified into sub¬mission, ordered Edward to make peace wdth himin the best possible manner. A negotiation was ac-20 LIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.cordingly set on foot, which, however, terminated in¬effectually ; the truce was not renewed, and, in 1322,a mutual invasion took place. The Scots penetratedinto Lancashire by the western marches, and, after• plundering the country, returned home with ex¬traordinary booty; while Edward made preparationsfor an expedition into Scotland, which took place inAugust. In this, however, he was unsuccessful.Bruce having caused all the cattle to be driven off,and all the effects of value to be removed fromLothian and the Merse, fixed his camp at Culross,,on the north of the river Forth. Edward, however,penetrated to Edinburgh; but without hope of sub¬duing the kingdom. Many of his soldiers perished |for want of food, and he was at last obliged to retirewithout having seen the enemy.On their return to England, Edward’s soldiers jburnt the abbeys of Holyrood, Melrose, and Dry- .burgh, and slew many of the monks. As soon as '|they retired, they were pursued by the Scots, who jlaid siege to the castle of Norham, and attempted ;to surprise the king, then stationed at the abbey of ‘Biland, in Yorkshire ; he, however, with the utmost idifficulty, escaped to York, after having left all hisbaggage and treasure.These repeated losses disheartened Edward, andhe was inclined to agree to a cessation of hostilities,from March, 30, 1323, to June, 12, 1336. Thistreaty was ratified by Robert, as King of Scotland,June 7, 1323. He now reconciled himself to thechurch, and obtained from the Pope the title ofKing, which had been so long denied him.Early in the year 1327, Edward II. was deposed,and barbarously murdered in Berkeley castle. Hewas succeeded by his son, Edward III., then in the15th yearof his age, who renewed the negoeiationsLIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.21for peace, and ratified the treaty made by his father;but hearing that the Scots had resolved to invadeEngland if peace was not immediately concluded,he summoned his barons to meet him in arms atNewcastle. On June 15, 1327, the Scots invadedEngland, with an army of 20,000 horsemen. Againstthem Edward led an army of at least 30,000 men,who assembled at Durham on the 13th of July.The Scots burnt everything as they went along. Onthe 18th of the same month, the English discoveredthem by the smoke and flames which marked theirprogress, and marched forward in order of battletowards the quarter where the smoke was perceived,hut meeting no enemy for two days, they concludedthat the Scots had retired. Disencumbering them¬selves of their baggage, they resolved, by forcedmarches, to reach the river Tyne, with the intentionof posting themselves on the north hank of thatriver, to intercept the Scots on their return. On20th July, the cavalry crossed the river at Halidon ;but before the rest of the army came up, the riverwas so much swollen by heavy rains, that it couldno longer be forded, so the English troops remainedfor several days without any accommodation, and inthe greatest want of provisions. The soldiers be¬ginning to murmur, it was resolved to proceedsouthwards ; and the king offered a reward to theperson who should first discover the enemy “ onground where they might be attacked.” The armycontinued its march for three days, when they camein sight of the enemy. The Scots were posted on arising ground in front of the river Wear, and theirflanks were secured by rocks and precipices. TheEnglish hoped to allure the Scots from their strongpost, but failed, on which Edward sent the followingmessage to Randolph and Douglas : “ Either,’’ said22 LIFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.he, “ suffer me to pass the river, and leave me roomfor ranging my forces, or do you pass the river, andI will leave you room to range yours, and thus shallwe fight on equal terms.” To this the Scottishcommanders replied, “ We will do neither. Onour road hither we have burnt and spoiled the coun¬try, and here we are fixed while to us it seems good ;and if the hing of England is offended, let him comeover and chastise us.”The armies continued in sight of each other fortwo days; and the English, understanding thattheir enemies were distressed for provisions, resolvedto maintain a blockade, and reduce them by famine.They were surprised, however, to find that the Scotshad secretly decamped, and taken their position twomiles up the river. The English encamped oppositeto them near Stanhope Park. At midnight Dou¬glas undertook a desperate enterprise, ancf with 200horsemen approached the English camp, entered it inthe disguise of a chief commander, and having thuseluded the sentinels, he passed on to the royal quar¬ters, overthrew everything that opposed him, andfuriously assaulted the king’s tent. The domesticsof Edward defended their master; and his chaplain,with many others of his household, were slain. Theking, however, escaped; and Douglas, disappointedof his prey, rushed through-the enemy, and retreatedwith inconsiderable loss.Finding at length his authority established, and thatEdward was sufficiently occupied by dissensionswhich had sprung up in bis own country, Bruceresolved to retaliate in some measure the miseriesinflicted on his kingdom ; this he did by again in¬vading England, ravaging the border counties andgiving up the whole district to the license o 1 thesoldiery.UFE OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.23In 1328, Edward, wearied with continual lossesand disappointments, consented to a peace betweenthe two kingdoms, on the following conditions :—1.The stone on which the kings of Scotland werewont to sit at the time of their coronation, shall herestored to the Scots. 2. The king of England en¬gages to employ his good offices at the Papal courtfor obtaining a revocation of all spiritual processesdepending before the Holy See against the king ofScots, or against his kingdom, or subjects. 3. Forthese causes, and to make reparation for the ravagescommitted in England, the Scots shall pay 30,000merks to the king of England. 4. Restitution shallbe made of the possessions belonging to ecclesiasticsin either kingdom, whereof they may have been de¬prived during the war. 5. But there shall not be anyrestitution made of inheritances which have falleninto the hands of the king of England, or of the kingof Scots, by reason of the war between the two na¬tions, or through the forfeiture of former possessions.6. Johanna, sister of the king of England, shall begiven in marriage to David, son and heir to the kingof Scots. 7* The king of Scots shall provide thePrincess Johanna in a jointure of £2000 yearly, se¬cured on lands and rents, according to a reasonableestimation. 8. If either of the parties shall fail inperforming these conditions,he shall pay 2000 poundsof silver to the Papal treasury.By this arrangement the title of Bruce was esta¬blished, and the remainder of his public life was oc-■ cupied in framing laws for consolidating the power1 which he had acquired. The hardships and suffer¬ings Bruce had encountered, brought on a diseaseat that time called leprosy, and the last two yearswere spent in comparative seclusion in CardrossCastle, on the northern shore of the Frith of Clyde24LIFE OF KING EGBERT BRUCE.Finding that he was dying, he requested to see thecounsellors and friends he most trusted. He toldthem that he sorely repented all his misdeeds, espe¬cially of having slain the Red Comyn before theholy altar, and that if he had lived, it was his inten¬tion to have gone to the Holy Land, and made waragainst the enemies of the Cross. He requested hisdearest friend, and greatest warrior, Lord JamesDouglas, to carry his heart to Jerusalem, to be de¬posited in the Saviour’s sepulchre. He died on the7th of June, 1329, in the 55th year of his age and23d of his reign; and, according to his request, hisheart was taken out, embalmed, and put into a silvercase.Douglas set out with his precious charge, butnever got to the end of his journey, having been slainin a battle with the Moors in Spain. His body wasfound lying on the field of battle, with Bruce’s heartunder him; and both having been brought home,the former was buried in the church of Douglas,and the latter deposited in Melrose Abbey.FINIS. o The immense sale of the new Histories, abund¬antly proves that pamphlets of a higher order than sthose formerly in the market, were much wanted.The present Series, consisting now of upwards of onehundred kinds, embracing the most popular subjects,will be extended, from time to time, by the additionof such instructing and entertaining matter as willsustain the character they have already acquired, ofbeing admirably adapted to elevate the taste of thatclass of readers for whom they are designed.Lists may be had of all Booksellers-