5crf^irv\) <y tTVQ (TY^J^k, dlfciTv^crv^rfv^ov^'THEMAGIC BOOK;WHOLE ART OFipiILEDGERDEMAIN!CONTAINING^INSTRUCTIONS HOW TO PERFORM TRICKSlWITH'° Met, Carta, Cups, 23ans, &r.^ BY THEGreat Magician./fGLASGOW.WILLIAM I N G L I S j^ 5, Melville Place, 132, Trongate.4•' ''i'-fif. s»4? ? ' ■ . ,C/9* ]/lcPinc L;3«;> T35‘. ^tonRfrfG-i r r i y yi i m e r i g1?;:.r ■■me r t 8 e o it ■i^grcisrp' |KJl iHE v - yj.p ce^»‘ «:nfe8‘ 35Ufia»‘,aih•^i:/?.i.wi:c.u<V'-,8 ho w. xo ..fkeobm abicej^COVXVIWIKGM' ar^n;:/A H O T G v If O ArWVClC BOOK:Mo > */.XHETHEMAGIC BOOR.How to exit a Man's Head off, and put theHead into a plate a yard from his Body.This is a noble action if it be handled by askilful hand. To show this feat of executionyou must cause a board, a cloth, and a plateto be purposely made, and in each of themto be made holes fit for a body’s neck : theboard must be made of two planks, the longer-and broader the better; there must be leftwithin half a yard of the end of each plank,half a hole, so as both the planks being thrusttogether, there may remain two holes like theholes in a pair of stocks ; there must be madelikewise a hole in the cloth, a plate alsomust be set directly over or upon one of them,having a hole in the middle thereof, of the likequantity, and also a piece cut off the same asTig as his neck, through which his head may4be conveyed into the middle of the plate,and then'sitting or kneeling under the board,let the head only remain upon the board, in.the frame, then to make the sight more dreadful,put a little brimstone into a chafing-dish ofcoals? setting it before the head of the boy,:who must gasp two or three times so as thesmoke may enter his nostrils and mouth,which is not unwholesome, and the headpresently will appear stark dead, if the boyset his countenance accordingly; and if a littleblood be sprinkled on his face the sight willbe strangei’. This is commonly with a boyinstructed for that purpose, who being familiarand conversant with company, may be knownas well by his face as by his apparel. In theother end of the table, where the like hole ismade, another boy of the bigness of the knowlrboy must be placed, having on his usualapparel: he must lean or lie upon the board,and must put his head under the board,through the side hole, so as the body shallseem to lie on the end of fhe board, ^ind his'head lie in a plate on the other end. There:are other things which might be perforihed inthis action, the more to astonish the beholders,which, because theyrequire long descriptions,I omit; as to put about his heck a little doughkneaded with bullock’s blood, which, beingcold, will appear like dead flesh, and being5>pricked with a sharp round hollow quill willbleed and seem very strange; and many rulesare to be observed herein, as to have the table¬cloth so long and so wide as it may almostreach the ground.—Note, suffer not the com¬pany to stay too long in the place.CfUOCLi ?.oor> Ji iioiovr .■> £0Dancmy Egg.dat . q ro--. g libilajkudv/ micoadt *1 fi.Three eggs are byought out, two of themare put on a table, and the third in a hat: alittle cane is borrowed from one of thecompany, and it is shown about to convincethe spectators that there is no preparation.It is then placed across the hat, the hat fallsto the ground and the egg sticks to it as ifglued, the orchestra then plays a piece ofmusic, and the egg, as if it was sensible of theharmony, twists about the cane from one endto the other, and continues its motion till themusic stops. ' ■5 ' " •'EXPLANATION.ne/tf r otam r; no Ti ycl one tDUu yns oxbiThe egg is fastened to a thread by a pin,which is put in lengthways, and the hole,which has been made to introduce the pin,is stopped with white wax. The other endof the thread is fastened to the breast of the.i6pefson who pferforms the trick, with a pinbent like a hook'—the cane passing under thethread near to ^he egg serves for it to rest on—when the music begins, the performer pushesthe cane from left to right, or from right toleft; it then appears as if the egg ran alongthe cane, which it does not, being fastened toits thread, its centre of gravity remains alwaysat the same distance from the hook that holdsit; it is the cane which sliding along presentsite different points to the surface of the egg.—N.B. To produce the illusion, and persuadethe company that it is the egg which carriesitself toward the different points of the cane,the performer turns a little on his heel, bythis means the egg receives a motion whichdeceives the spectators, it remaining alwaysat the same distance from the point to whichit is fastened.The Fascinated Bird. -Take any bird, and lay it on a table; thenwave a small feather over its eyes, and it willappear as dead, but taking the feather away,it will revive again. Let it lay hold of thestem part if the feather, and it will twist andturn like a parrot; you may likewise roll itabout, on the table just as you please.~ . , Enchanted Cock.Bring a cock into a room, with both yourhands close to his wings, and hold themtight; put him on a table, and point his beakdown as straight as possible; then let any onedraw a line, with a piece of chalk, directlyfrom its beak, and all the noise you canpossibly make will not disturb him, for sometime, from the seeming lethargy, which thatposition you have laid him in has effected.7'o make a Sixpence leap out of a pot.■ • r in. 9: v ■ i ui ,:i' ■ '■ ■■1 {°This is done by means of a long horse-hair,fastened to the rim of a sixpence, by a smallhole driven through it. This feat should bedone by night, with a candle placed betweenthe spectators and operator, their eyes beingthereby hindered from discerning the decep¬tion.'Dancing Egg.lion et .taiflQ'ri>kbfu;ft *» yfirhiiO' i ,531111Boil an egg hard, and peel of a small pieceof the shell at one end; then thrust in a quillfilled with quicksilver, and sealed ateachend.As long as the egg remains warm, it will notcease to dance about.8I'ho Card burnt, and afterwards found in aWatch.,nys: r hie;. .' .• n; .• c iui';One of the company draws a chance card,'and you ask for three watches from the spec¬tators,; winch you fold up in separate piecesof paper in the form of dice boxes, which arelaid on the table, and covered with a napkin— the card chosen is burnt, and the cindersput into a box—shortly after the box is open¬ed, the ashes are not there. The threewatches are put on a plate, and some one ofthe company chooses one, the same person :opens the watch, and finds under the glass apiece of the burnt card: and in the watch-case, under the watch, is found a miniaturecard, resembling the one burnt.EXPLANATION.The card chosen is known by the arrange¬ment we have explained. The watches areplaced, well covered with paper, on a littletrap : the trap is described in the cutting, tea¬ring, and mending a handkerchief. Whenyou have made known to the confederate thecard which is chosen, he stretches his arm tothe table to take one of the watches, and de¬posit there what is requisite; the watches mustbe covered with a napkin, which is supported9by bottles, or somewhat else, otherwise theyhand of the confederate would be seen, or thei. _ I _ • •/’ Ktnapkin would be seeh to move. As for themeans employed to cause the ashes of theburnt card to disappear inthebox, it consistsin putting into the cover a piece of wood orpaper which exactly fits it, and falls down tothe bottom when the box is shut ; this pieceof wood or paper being of the same colour asthe inside of the box, operates as a doublebottom, and hides the ashes from the view ofthe deceived spectator, who at that minute iskempted to believe that the ashes are gone outto be combined afresh, and to produce theminiature card which is found in the watch.'•■li-H od iliv/ifopa Jmfi gn’urxo/-' oiit.uoficnjig fnmyr y«i; iii ’ rq odMagic Spoon..Vi hi’J VPut four ounces of bismuth into a crucible,and when in a state of complete fusion, throw-in two ounces and a half of lead, and oneounce and a half of tin; these metals willcombine, and form an alloy fusible in boilingwater. Mould the alloy into bars, and takethem to a silversmith to be made into tea¬spoons. Place one-of them in a saucer, at atea-table, and the person who uses it will notbe .a little astonished to find it melt away assoon as he puts it into the hot tea,10The Paper Oracle.<; . • • ‘i j i”iSome aniusement may be obtained amongyoung people, by writing with common ink,a variety of questions, on different bits ofpaper, and adding a pertinent reply to each,;written with nitro-muriat of gold. The col¬lection is suffered to dry, and put aside tillan opportunity offers for using them. When,produced, the answers will be invisible; youdesire different persons to select such ques¬tions as they may fancy, and take them homewith them; you then promise, that if they;are placed near the fire during the night,;answers will appear beneath the questions,in the morning; and such will be fact, if thepapers be put in any dry, warm situation.The Cut Lace joined.Conceal a piece of lace in your hand;then produce another piece of the same pat¬tern ; double the latter, and put the foldbetween your fore-finger and thumb, withthe piece which you have concealed, doubledin the same manner; pull out a little of the ,latter, so as to make a loop, and desire oneof the company to cut it asunder. If youhave conveyed the concealed piece of lace,11so dexterously as to be undetected, with theother between your thumb and fore-finger,the spectators will, naturally enough, thinkyou have really cut the latter; which youmay seem to make whole again, while repeat¬ing some conjuring words, and putting awaythe two ends of the piece that is actually cut.' i w■; . vfel .\ij> .idnsb ono-y'!How to suspend a Ring with a burnt thread.t.u it r; •;>>: ‘ i!t i0o hlfil 0/Jili ^I'OV iVM\'F;t • .’ l i » it. i - *i r TThe thread having been previously soakedtwo or three times in common salt andwater, tie it to a ring not larger than a wed-ing-ring. When you apply the flame of acandle to it, though the thread burn to ashes,it will yet sustain the ringp.Miii9jb > efij i<c»9-//;ivd etlbbim. adJ id JadtA whimsical trick.op rnui iaanpai bnn ?.t, aqndflbub Inq -mu i/.np b^Jou aid stuIw g-^bon'lake salt-petre an ounce, cream of Tartar anounce,sulphur half an ounce, beat them to pow¬der singly, then mix them together, and putthe powder in a paper in your pocket, youmay then at any time you please, convey agrain into a pipe of tobacco, and when it takesfire it will give the report of a musket, butnot break the pipe; or you may put as muchas will lay upon your nail in any place, upon12little bits of paper, and setting fire to it, therewill be the report of so many great guns, butit will not produce any bad effect.To tell a card thought of Blindjold.* jTake twenty-one cards, and lay them down''in three rows, with their faces upward; (i.e.)when you have laid out three, begin again atth£ left hand, and lay one card upon the first,and so on to the right hand; then begin onthe left hand again, and so go on until youhave laid out the twenty-one cards in threeheaps at the same time requesting any one tothink of a card. When you have laid them outask him which heap his card is in: then lay1that heap in the middle between the othertwo. This done, lay them out again in threeheaps as before, and again request him tonotice where his noted card goes, and put thatheap in the middle as before. Then takingup the cards with their backs toward you, takeoff’the uppermost card, and reckon it one ;take off'another, which reckon two j and thusproceed till you come to the eleventh, whichwill invariably prove to be the card thought oi.You fnust never lay out your cards less thenthree times, but as often above that numberas you please^ This trick may be done with-out your seeing the T-ards at all, if you handleatid count them carefully. To diversify thetrick, you may Use a different number of cards,but the number chosen must be divisible bythree, and the middle card, after they havebeen thrice dealt as directed, will always bethe one thought of; for instance, if done withfifteen cards, it must be the eighth, and so on ;when the number is even, it must be theexact half; as if it be wenty-four, the cardthought of will be the twelfth, &c.tiozhi! b,r. if'fchvjd •• • i:uy odt tid-t onTo write any name, upon a Paper, and thenburn it to ashes, yet afterwards it may beread plainly..‘tlrA* f/rmtcuTake a new clean pen that was never writwith, and dip in your own water as you doink, then strip up your shirt sleeve aboveyour wrist, and upon your arm write yourname, or any mark, and then let it dry onyour skin, and nothing will be seen, then putdown your sleeve and button yoOr wrist; dothis privately, and it will cause some wonder;then take a piece of white paper and writeyour name, or the mark thereon with anotherpen of black ink (but let it be written as likethe other as you can) then take the paper andburn it, and lay' the ashes on a table, andstripping up your sleeve, rub the ashes hardwith your finger, where you had written withyour water, then blow off the ashes, and thename or mark will plainly be read on yourarm in black letters..■ . 3. I T J **l;> ■/ i < l : l * “‘A ' 11 f IsW j * j■•i ayo..vi'.» lli.^ oetoo-iiL -a, jl^-jf- btibdf . /hI !The Sentinel Egg.{ HO . i!3h j S* > l Jl ’ -33J!rt >jLay a lookiiig-glass upon an even table;take a fresh egg, and shake it for some time,so that the yolk may be broken and mixedup with the white. You may then, with asteady hand, balance it on its point, andmake it stand on the glass. This it would beimpossible to do while the egg was in itsnatural state.1 11 I jHLl JjpiiJ i 11 r»M "t' J' IHon' to blon- a Sixpence out of another Man'shand.rrdiy ih d tof rndl bria -/fi'aij! y a 10 ,01050 1Take a sixpence, blow on it, and clap itpresently into one of your spectator’s hands,bidding him to hold it fast: then ask of him ifhe be sure he have it; then to be certain hewill open his hand and look. Then say tohim, “ Nay, but if you let my breath go off,I cannot do it.” Then take it out of his handagain, and blow on it, and, staring him in#v15the face,, clap a piece of horn in his hand, andretain the sixpence, shutting his hand your¬self. Bid him hold his hand dovyn, and slipthe teaster be tween one of his cutis. Then takethe stone you show feats with, and holdit unto his hand, saying, “ By virtue hereof Iwill command the money to vanish you hold inyour hand; vade, now see.” When they havelooked/then they will think it is changed by-virtue of your stone. Then take the hornagain; and seem to cast it from you, retainingit, and say, “ Vade!” and anon say, “ you have,your money again.” He then will begin tomarvel, and say, “I have not;” say then tohim again, “you have, and I am sure youhave it; Is it not in your hand ? If it be notthere, turn down one of your sleeves, for it isin one I am surewhere he finding it, willnot a little wonrler./too xir no.; ivumi ai nubr" oil/ piv/obMysterious Bottle.Pierce a few holes, with aglazier’s diamond,in a chmmon black bottle ; place it in a vaseor a jug of water, so that the neck only isabove the surface. Then, with a funnel, fillthe bottle, and cork it well, while it is in thejug or vase. Take it out, and notwithstand¬ing the holes in the bottom, it will not leak;1(5wipe it dry, and give it to some person toUncork. The moment the cork is drawn tothe party’s astonishment, the water will beginto run out of the bottom of the bottle.: Oi'B / V.IR-.'I V/Oil-i : / ■)O.i mfiMoney Box\’'.oc - -7/on jbnsrf 11/07,1A piece of money, or a ring, is put into abox, in the presence of a person who holdsit j the operator Stands at a distance, and bidshim shake the box gently, and the piece isheard to rattle inside; he is desired again toshake it, and then it is not heard to rattle;the third time it is again heard,but the fourthtime it is gone, and is found in the shoe ofone of the co/hpanjg 5The box-must be made oh purpose, in such ;a manner that in shaking it gently up anddown, the piece within is heard; on the con¬trary, shaking it hard, horizontally, a littlespring, which falls on the piece, prevents itfrom being heard, which makes you imagine ■it is not within. He who performs the trick,then touches the box, under pretence of show¬ing how to shake it, and although it is lock¬ed, he easily gets out the piece by means ofa secret opening, availing himself ol thatminute to put in a false piece,and to leave thebox with the same person, whom he causesto believe that the piece is or is not within,according to the manner the box is shaken ;at length, the original piece is found in theshoe of one of the company, either by meansof the person being in confederacy, and hav¬ing a similar piece, or by sending another toslip it on the door, in this last case, it is foundon the floor, and the person fi xed on is per¬suaded that it |e’l from his shoe as he wastaking it off.-i!f 7/tOfl ,fV lUI 'tli Olflt yii: ;USlllJH a ndke rch ief Hearth.■ — • ) 7/ 'Q! i {r' t - r . * ' h # ■ f I * 1' * •' ! Sr", ' ‘ j ‘ ’ ' '' j t •-/11 iCover the metal case of a watch with partof a handkerchief, single only ; bring the endsto that side where the glass is, and hold thehandkerchief by them there, so as to stretchit tightly over the metal. You may thenplace a red hot coal,or a piece oflighted paper,upon that part of the handkerchief which isso strained over the metal without burning it;the caloric meiely passing through the hand¬kerchief to fix in the metal..grid / rirgucd fclri .if; mrijo orft>• T- 7 7 7Knotted thread.1 • . -i.iomriJ mMu rime ovri dh d re.ujKConsiderable amusement, not unmixed withwonder, may be occasioned among a party ofis/ladies, by a clever performance of this trick.It is most frequently performed by a female,but the effect of it is considerably increasedwhen it is displayed by a boy. A piece ofcalico, muslin, or linen, is taken in the lefthand, a needle is threaded in the presence ofthe spectators,and the usual, or even a double'or treble knot made at the extremity of oneof the ends of it. The operator commenceshis work by drawing the needle and thethread in it quite through thop linen, notwith¬standing the knot, and continues to makeseveral stiches in like manner successively.The mode of performing this seeming won¬der, is as follows; a bit of thread, about aa quarter of a yard long, is turned once roundthe top of the middle fingerof the right hand,Upon which a thimble is then placed to keepit secure. This must be done privately, andthe thread kept concealed, while the needle isthreaded with a bit of thread of a similarlength. The thread in the needle must haveone of its ends drawn up nearly close, and beconcealed between the fore finger and thumb ;the other should hang down nearly as long,and by the side of the thread which is fasten¬ed under the thimble, so that these two mayappear to be the two ends of the thread, tThe end of the piece that is fastened underthe thimble is then knotted, and the performer19begins to sew, by moving his hand quickly afterhe has taken up the stich. It will appear asthough he actually passed the knotted threadthrough the cloth.■3011 I Ft'/ ;ti .(ih oJ bdvieofn cib ■ ov rignontdfHmlanOy I^bdiojaagna odHow to break a Staff upon two Glasses ofWat-er.Place the Glasses (being full of Water)upon two joint stools, or such like, equidis¬tant from the ground, and distant one fromanother the length of the staff; then placethe end of the staff upon the edges of the twoglasses, so that they be sharp ; thife done, withall the force you can, with another staff, strikethe staff’ which lies on the glasses in themidst, and it will break without breaking theglasses, or spilling the water(bniff-u biisf dd jfpnc sfijt -If) .fsgnH ohtiiTo shuffle Cards in such a Manner as alwaysto keep one certain Card at the .Bottom.A person with a hard hand and stiff jointsshould never think of playing deception withthe cards, as clumsy fingers will not do. Inshowing tricks with cards, the principal pointconsists in shuffling them nimbly, and yetkeeping one certain card either at the bottom20or in some known place of the pack, four orfive cards from the bottom; for by this youmay seem to work wonders; since it is easyfor you to see, ortake notice of a card; which, ;though you are perceived to do, it will notbe suspected” if yon shuffle them well togetherafterwards, by the method here to be taught,which is this : in shuffling, let the bottomcard be always kept a little before, or, whichis best;, a littlebehind all the rest of the cards;put it a little beyond the rest before, rightoyer your fore finger, or else, which is thebest, a little behind the rest, so as the little sfinger ,of the left hand may slip up, and meetwith it at first; shuffle as thick as you can,and at last throw upon the board the bottomcard,, with as many more as you would pre- -serve for any purpose, a little before or a littlebehind the rest; and be sure to let vour forefinger, (if the pack be laid before) or yourlittle finger, (if the pack be laid behind)always creep up to meet with the bottom card,and when you feel it, you may there hold it,till you have shuffled over again, which beingdone, the card which was first at the bottom : ;will come there again; thus you may shufflethem before their faces, and yet leave yournoted card at the bottorii; you must try to beperfect in this mode of shuffling, and havingonce obtained it, you may do almost what21j ou please; for whatever pack you make,though it is ten, twelve, or twenty cards, youniay still keep it next the bottom, and shufflethem often to please the curious.To call for any Lard in the Pack.i; >: •!.<!! i. • J ' ' / • ' ' u i; IThis trick, which requires very little prac¬tice to perform, is done in the following man¬ner. Having privately seen a card, putit atthebottom of the pack, then shuffle the cardstill it comes to the bottom again, then putthe cards behind you ; and §ay here I call fornaming the bottom card which you have seen,and as you hold them behind you, turn thetop card with the face upwards, then holdforth the cards, and as you hold them youmay see what the next card is • then put thecards behind you again, and take the topcard, and put at the bottom, with its facedownwards, and turn the next card with itsface upwards, and whilst you are doing this,say, here I call for, naming the card, yousaw last; then hold forth the cards again,showing the bottom card which will be thatyou call for; then put the cards behind youagain and proceed in the same manner as youdid before; you may by this method go throughthem all, and call for all the cards in the pack,Ito the admiration of the beholders, who willbe surprised how you could find them outwhen you hold them behind you.ITorv to lift a Bottle with a Straw.Take a straw, and having bent the thickerend of it in a sharp angle, put this curvedend into the bottle, so that the bent part mayrest against its side ; you may then take theother end and lift up the bottle by ?t, withoutbreaking the straw, and this will be the morereadily accomplished as the angular part ofthe straw approaches nearer to that whichcomes out of the bottle. It is necessary, inorder to succeed in this feat, to be particular¬ly careful in choosing a stout straw, which isneither broken nor bruised; if it have beenpreviously bent or damaged, it is unfit for thepurpose of performing this trick, as it willbe too weak in the part so bent, or damaged,to support the bottle.uo'* -j)^ v* }3flrr?ri>At /’Oi (IBO jl jmto; ebifio edJ diro! bfori w —The Golden Head, which, leaping and dancingin a Glass, answers different Questions.uoyanrvmettib. ji .To show that this head is not connectedwith any other object, you put some crown ;28pieces tit the bottom of a glass, and a coveringover all; this however does not prevent thehead, which you affirm to be of solid gold,frdm dancing in the glass to answer by num¬bers, and yes or no, to questions^proposed toit; at the same time, a bunch of rings, toanother glass, at a little distance, as if bysympathy, performs the same motions. Inthe room of the first head, which is shownround to the company, you take a secondfrom the table, where the experiment is to beperformed. This second head is attached toa silken thread which passes through the par¬tition into the hands of the confederate ; thisthread, instead of leaning on the brim of theglass, where the cover would prevent it from.sliding, passes through a small well-polishednick to give it easy play and prevent it frombreaking.—N. B» The crown pieces, whichyou put in the bottom of the glass,, underpretext of preventing any communication be¬tween the golden hiad, and the machinery,which may be suspected to be hid in the table,are not useless, for they serve as ballast, andprevent the glass from yielding to the motionoccasioned by drawing the thread.The Wonderful Dye. ’Dissolve indigo in diluted sulphuric acid,and add to it an equal quantity of solution of24carbonate of potass. If a piece of white clothbe clipped in this mixtures it will be changedto blue; yellow cloth, in the same mixture,may be changed to green ; red to purple ; andblue litmus paper to be turned to red.:.M i Ll • ; j ‘ • imTo find the Points cast on two Dice.jjy/orfe ai poidw,. Ui. in1 ‘io ck !|For this trick, cast both the dice, and then,mark how many points appear at the top ;then let him take up one of them (no.matter which), and see what number isat the bottom, and add all together; then lethim cast the dice again, and add the pointscast to the former sum; let the dice stand,bring seven with you, and then add the pointswhich appear at the top of the dice, and youMull find so many were cast in the wholeh> noiiufoa i|o yfiJiifiiJp fai/po un ii ot btw1 