rutVISIONS, DISCOVERIES and WARNINGSOF THESDREADFUL and TERRIBLEJUDGMENTS,UPONSCOTLAND, ENGLAND and IRELANDWhich, were revealed to John Porter of Cros*sibeig.Taken from his own mouthy (while confined tohis bed being blind) and attefied by himfielfyas by his declaration annexed,Jed ii. 2S,—30, 31, 32. And it Jhall come to pafs,that I will pour out my Spirit upon all fisjh, and yourfans and your daughters Jhall prophejy, and your old■men Jhall dream dreams, your young mm Jhall feeviftons. And I will shew wonders in the heavens, andin the earth blood and fre, and pillars of fmoke. Thefun shall be turned into darknejs and the moon into blood,before that great and terrible day of the Lord. And itshall come to pafs, that whofoever shall call on the navisof the Lord, shall be delivered.GLASGOW: Prints^ in tk year. I773*''. r> >? b !• .s i-«; ’3‘ < V I ■ 1 - 'i . I,d ' . '* '< -■ L :■ -vi ,-*r;^w r — -|' - ‘O ;; . ' Vk* ^ .■: ' ’■‘kk. . i ,■■' i.t t* ; .\ / . i< ' i, . . t •■■ ny , -r' -r . ’■* ‘ f ‘ k^ k-. r -e .1 ■/ . ■ 1 -■ ' ,..■>i ■ fK ...jiV. /e .*'<■ V<v •',;W ; Vk, . • \vi' *» ^CiS*.' ■ V ■Aj '.V e . • i .i* .,,:J ‘ . ‘A' r*V. k SnVt>.e- j: ‘Jr : k .i-., , ■■ ■■ S -V,, ? ij . X' E V. ■ ,, ; ii . V E >; V. . , ^ E . , ■ ■ .•? -Jlit :(t'. •‘ -4 ■ '■ •'•' r »• ''■*'* !? . 1", i' : 0 i ‘ «3riift\ I • e-!", ■ )Y, ■*[ 3 ]The Visions, Discoveries and Warn¬ings, of the dreadful and terrible JUDG¬MENTS upon Scotland, England andIreland, which were revealed, to JohnPorter of Crossibeig.IN a dream, being (landing as I thought, upon thebraes of Ayr, I went to alitf’-e height near the town,and looking about to the city, I obferved two coachesall black, going up the river fide towards the fouth, infuch quick motion, as if they had not touched the ground,and as 1 looked after them, there came one to me, andafited me, What I looked upon ? I anfwered, Two coach¬es, the which I never faw the blacker : He faid, I willtell thee what thsfe are, It is the devils going to combinetogether to go to Rome, to make the Pope to fend Anti-chrift to Scotland, to bring on a (Iroke and get a fatal fall.2 At another time I apprehended a great light, and inthe light I faw before me in large letters, The Lord it a-bout to plead a controverfy loitb Scotland, Englandand Irel ANDyijf a defpifed and /lighted Gofpel.3. At another time being awake, but being incapableto know where I was, I apprehended by a vifion of light,that 1 was in the open fields fitting by an high-way fide*and faw a company of men walking by me, and every oneof them had in their right hand a large bloody napkinhanging down, upon which I perceived large letters, Ia(ked the meaning of that which I faw upon the cornersof the napkin ? It Was anfwered. It was the names of thetwelve apoftles of the Lamb. And looking after them Ifaw them come to the gates of a city, and as jhey enteredin, each one took a bloody clout out of his pocket, andthrew it down at the threfhold of the door, with whiqhthey wiped their feet as they went in ; then l afked, Whatmeaned the clouts ? It was anfwered. It was fhecultomin noblemen’s houfes to have old caft clouts laid down attheir doors to wipe their feet as they came in : for nounclean thing (hall enter into the new Jerufalem ; andthen looking in at the gates of the city, I perceived agreat number of people in a larger room than I can ex-A 2 prd'SC 4 ]IPrdf, having every one 6f them a bloody napkin in the*/hands. Ot4. Aftertlie fame manner, I apprehended I was walk¬ing through a little town, and 1 faw as it had been a fewiheep and lambs forced out of a houfe, purfoed by a dog,and pafling by the door 1 locked in, and law a lamb, whichI apprehended was net able to follow the reft ; then Ifaw one come to it, which { took to be its mother, andas I looked upon her» I faw one of her fides open, as if itbrd been the leaf of a window, and thus looking, onecams to me, and asked. What I looked upon ? I anfwer-etl, A few.iheep and iambs purfued by a dog. He laid, IWill tell thee wint it means: This generation fecketh todeftroy my.little flock, but ere long, I will give them a-Bother bone to gnaw upon, for I will bring in the kingof Spain with an invincible army for the abufe of my gof-pel, which was the renown of this land, and made it fa¬mous in other churches, for the minifters of this churcharc turned into dtvflons and factions among themfelves :for which J will riafh them one againft another. And as Ilooked I perceived a long roll coming to me, which light¬ed upon my knees, upon which I peiceived three linesdrawn length ways, I underftood the letters, but not thewords, upon wh'ch a man came to me, and allied, What1 was looking upon ? 1 anfwered, Upon a written roll, butcould not unde, ftand the language thereof, he faid, I willfliew you the meaning thereof; I’ll bring againft thisland.a people of a ftrange language and fierce countenance,whole fpeech thou {halt not underftand, and they Hullmarch through the whole land, to execute my judgments,for broken covenants and blood-fhed of my fervants ; andfor defpifmg and flighting of my gofpel. I was allied a-gain, What feed thou ? I anfwered, A log of timber,with two running dreams; I was allied, What was thecolour of them ? I anfwered, The one is bhckiflr and darkthe other bright and clear. Then be bade me tafte theone that was black ; and dipping my finger in it, I foundit bitter. Then, he defired me to tafte that which wasclear; the which when I did, I found it fweet; he an-fwered, The bitter is the cup that is put in the hands ofthis generation, and the fweet is the cup that the remnantwe to receive afterwards. Then lie alkcd, What wiltthou.[ 5 Ithem do for me, or rather, What fhall I do for thee?Then it came upon mv heart with fuch power, that he caftan open door to plead bo:h for myfetf and his remnant(In wiiich I found great iiherty,) that he weald (pare aremnant, and not make a full end in the day of his anger.At the fame time I faw four lines drawn before me, v;hjchye will find in Ffalm 22. A feed shall ft 'pice do tc vie, un¬to the Lord it shall be for ageueratior. veskoned in aaes alt.5. Another time 1 was awakened out of my flerp, witha great voice, which faid unto me, This year fhall be ayear of great coufufion, fuch as was not (inre the yearking Uzziah died ; for the mother fhall forget her fuckingch id, and the father the fon of bis old ape, for there (hallbe a cry made to go forth and n est the Sparifh army, andhe that goes forth to meet that army, fhal! not find a manto take him by the hand to afk how he docth : apd be thatwill not leave houfe and family and go to the field forChrifl and his interelh : for I will bring a ftreke upon thisland, and none flmll tfeape from the king to the beggarand that for their many fins, particularly thefe three, viz’.Eroken snd burnt covenants, and the blood fhed of thofethat teflified againft the fame, and a defpiftd and fbghtedgofpel6. At another time being overpoured with a great lighta confiderable writing was laid before me, which I couldnot underlland, but at length I perceived an expreffionviz. Come, heat all ye that feat the Lord, and I will tel]you what I am to bring upon this generation ; 1 have giv¬en you my gofpe! in purity and plenty, f0! more than for¬ty years, in which 1 laid before them, ail the bieffints pro"nounccd in the book of Deuteronomy, and a 11 the carles pro¬nounced on mount Ebal again(t the difobedienf, yet mv gof.pel laked fome things among them. There were fcveralthings laid before me, winch f cannot remember ; and pSI was turning from looking upon it, it was fald, Here w"*one thing that w.is lacking, viz. The light cf my counte¬nance ; 1 will raze this generation, as a man rozeth a prec*of ground to provide his turf, 1 will run upon this genera¬tion, as a man treading niort&r, running backward arstforward, treading upon thehighrfl places: And as I ftvefaith the Lord, The houfe of Eli shall-not rfcape. ]. fThe great ones fliall not be p fl by for their guatnefs. nt/the poor for his poveriy ; and that fox the lollowing'rea*^fans[ 6 ]Tons. The great ones were concerned in the making oftbefe covenants, and the poor alfo ; and it fliali fce foundthat the great ones were concerned in breaking of them,and the poor likewife, and both were concerned in theblood of thofe, who tellified againft the breaking and burn¬ing of thefe covenants.7. I was at another time allowed to proclaim a coni'million, withal faying, There were minifters in the place,and a let of judicious men and chriftians, who were morefit than I, who was both blind and lame : to which I wasanlwered, as it were with an angry countenance, 1 havelaid thee there for feven years on that bed, for that end Ihave kept thee, which thou wilt not believe: and if thoucontinue in refilling I will Ihew thee examples both from1'cripture and experience, that I have done to fuch as wouldnor believe. Then came to my remembrance, what hehad done io the unbelieving lord at the gate of Samaria.Then he prefented the commilfion to me, go and proclaima facrifice in Bozrah, which (hall come upon the land of I-dumea, which is thee, O wretched Scotland ! For I willcall the fowls of the air and the beafts of the field, to eatthe He(h of kings, of captains and of great ones, who haveIhed the blood of my fervaots, that teftified againft thebreaking of thefe covenants, for [ am wounded in my mem¬bers by this generation, and nothing will heal that woundbut aplailter of the blood of thelfc that wounded me: whichpUifter I am about to make up fkortly.8. And at another time I perceived a great army betwixtGirvan and Ayr, all in black, and oblerved a moving to¬wards the land, Again I perceived another army of foot,that came and took up their ground, and they flood eachof them upon their own ground: and as I was mufingandlooking with great concern upon them, I law one all inwhite, who find, Let not that trouble thee, ! will buildthee a fure houfe, better than that of fons and of daughtersfaith the Lord. Then I heard another faying unto me, Benot afraid of that great army, for thou llijlt fee them nomore. 1 had not moved my foot feven y^rds, till I lawthat army fall to the ground, as if they had been all (truckas with one (tone. Then returned the vition of light,which fai^» Now 1 have let thee fee that great army of26600c all fall to the ground.A[ 7 ]A memorable inftance not to be forgot but be a memo¬rial of my return to the poor church of Scotland, for myreturn lhall yet be great in this land, for 1 will have nomore ado with Antichrift in my church, for I will givehim a ftroke, and the report thereof (hall be heard throughthe whole world.9. At another time as I was viewing the vifion of light,I perceived one coining down with a gieat ax in his righthand, and turning himfelf upon a hep, he fet his one loothigher than the other, and the hand with the ax on bisright knee, and fwore with an oath by him that Hveth forever and ever : yea, ere long Britain (hall know what is mycommihion with the ax : but let not that trouble thee, forthou (halt not fee it.10. That at another time I heard at a great diftance a-bove me, as it had been one making a great moan, and a-nother laying, What aileth thee child, to make fnch amoan f The child faid. We will all be ruined, for ourchurch is filled full of luperftition and damnable herefies ;It was anfwered. That needs not trouble thee, thou haltnothing to do with that, it lies at the door of minifters, letthem lee to that; the child anfwered, We fudain the painand the lofs, for we will all be berried, for our church isfull of thieves and robbers.11. At another time, lying upon my bed waking, thereappeared to me, the likenefs of a woman with a ghoftlycountenance, which pafled with a great motion by my bed-Itock, to the other fide of the houfe, and looked at me withan angty vifage, clapping her hands together, leveral time*at me, and 1 overheard her, as talking with another andcame over the fame difcourl'e I had with another perfon thatThurlday before, and faid to the other, He hath made allthe honeit people that they cannot hear his name named,and others to mock and have him in derifion, which willmake him that he had better be off the woild than upon it.Then one of them sliced me, What was that I had done?and repeated the former difcouvles to me, and faid, Sincethou haft done fo, I will learn thee a way to mend it, denythou faid fo, I anfwered. How can I do that ? I have toldit to fome that will be believed, though I (hould fay to thecontrary; but he ftill continued with temptations and ter¬rible tbreattungs to that purpofe, till at iaft I was made tocryf c 8 3cry out. O Lord, rehuke him ! for hd will not b; rebukeil b? ir^: Then all difappearec!.12 'Ldnt in Nov. 1729. I thought I was frandinp in theopen fields, and law a man coming to me with « big cup ofHfood in his hand, 'which when I beheld, He told me. Heh d a commiffion to divide that cup into lolTer cups amongfive 'cities ; then I faw five cups in his other hand, fo to bedivided; he named Edinburgh, Glafgow and Ayr; as forthe other two I do not politiveiy remember them. Whichblood was to purge thcle cities ofblood, for I wid purgethem till I bring my remnant to fay, What have we to doany more with idols i17. On this fiime month l faw two living creatures hav¬ing fix wings, two covered their fees, two covered theirfeet, and with two they did fly, and they cried, Holy, holyLord1 God almightyy glory hi to th-e, ' 5 /,«/ > J'aid, / wiltvotgivi-tuy glory to another, nor my graift: to-graven ima¬ges. I still not give my glory to Er.glifh nor Irifh, tofrench nor Spainyards, to Pope nor Pagan, but l will takethe ptory to myfelf, and will cover mylelf witfv a cloud inmine anger, that they (hall not fee my face, and l will runupon mine enemies, and tread them as mire in the ilree's,and will fatiate the ea;th with their blood as with dung,and then I will take mine anger and the rod and tye themtogether, and throw them in the furnace.14. At another time it was laid before me, that it wasa token of judgments to come upon the land, that the mini-llers were fo unconcerned when the Lord was about to bringa delolating ftroke both by fea and land, the fmoke where¬of fhall be leen from one land to another, that in fome har¬bour, there (hall fcatcely one houfe be left to tell another,Yonder a (hip coming into the harbour.» l£. It was laid before’me, that the Lord was about topurfue the bio'd of his fervant , from the year 16-') T to thisday, and nothing Will purge blcrcAlbut blood, and when itis accomplilhed, it will oe’iaida, the queen or Sheba faid toSolomon, that the one hslf AvaS not'told ot what fhefound. For I have two'(words drawn, that oi a lorergwtand that of an ihtefling enemy, and if ye find any favour,it w'iil be at the hand of 1 foreign enemy.16. At another time l was awakened with a cry, faying.This is the fecond time f hive come unto thee with this'warning,[ 9 Jwarning, but thou regarded more the town ta k of thecountry than my warnings, but I will make the an ironpillar, and a brazen wall againft this generate i; fpeaktherefore that I command *hee, left I confound thee beforethem. I do not fay as before, a facrifice in Bozrah, but Ifay a facrifice in thee, wretched Scotland ! for I will dyethe ground with blood from Gath hill, to Irvine-water,for I will purge my church of popery and prelacy, and allother errors which are not according ta the true principlesof the church : for I will bring a fmall army with a tewminifters of the principles of the mountain-men fome timeago nicknamed whigs, and they (hall be the true feed of thechurch.17. The reafon why I was defirous to acquaint otherswith what was laid before me, was, becaufe of the fore re¬buke I had for neglefting it. I apprehended I heard twomen coming by the houfe, the one faying to the other, lhave an old blind man in this houfe I muft fpeak to him be¬fore I go any further : and turning myfclf upon my bed, Ifaw a young man in bright clothing, who faid to me, WhatI have laid before thee deny it not, but maintain it, andwhat thou haft not fpoken, fpeak, and what other things Ilay before thee conceal them not, whether they hear or whi¬ther they forbear ; they lhall know that I have laid theethere for that end, and thou fiialt not want a reward, forI never bad any man ferve me for nothing; and if thou dif-obey my commiflion, I will fill thy bed with a fulphureousfmoke, that none (hall be able to come near thee, and left;thou be difeouraged about where the fmoke (hall come fromI will open the mouth of the bottomlefs pit, the habitationofthofc that difobey my commands, and let thee fee whatfmoke cometh out of it ; upon which I was affrighted, thatI came under a folemn promife that what he would keep u*pon my memory I (hould not conceal it tho’ it colt me mylife : but it was faid unto me, What thou doft not remem¬ber I will not charge thee for it. I anfwered, I wantedk**.lth, I wanted light, and lb was unfit to publilh it, towhich it was anfwered, I fent them to thy bad-ftock to re¬ceive what thou hadft to lay to them, but thou did not fpeakbut took other obligations that they Ihould nor Ipeak whatthou told them before.16. Jan. 12, 1730, Being awakrd, it w» /aid tome,■ c io ]I am as a bear bereaved of her whelps, that can neithermeet map nor beal* hut tears them in pieces, I had once abonny bairn time of bairns in Scotland, which they bereav¬ed me of, fome of them they fent to foreign lands and plan¬tations, others they drowned in the fea, others they kil¬led in the fields upon gibbets and fcafTolds', tor which Iwill drive them out of their boufes as (beep arc driven in aitorzny day before the dorm, fecking for (heller, but findnone, I will caufe my mouth to go through this generationas a fhorm of fnow goeth through a wood, where the hightil trees and thicked branches receive mod of the ftorm ;X will leave their houfe* without rib or roof, and their fub-ftance, as corn in the fields, that hath neither corn nortdjaff. Upon the fame day about twilight, there (hined agreat light about me, fuch as I never faw before for bright-pels, which fo overpoweird me, that I knew not whetherin the body or out of the body, and it was faid to me, Iam a merciful God, and he that repenteth and fleeth to mewill find a merciful God, and fuch as will not flee to mefor mercy, by forfaking their fins, the generation to comefhall not remember that there was fucli a generation in theplace. 1 have a remnant in this place whom I will whip asa father doth his fon that ferveth him, I will not deal withthis church as I have dealt with other churches, whomI have left never to return again, as the feven churches ofAlia, for I have a remnant of men and women in this land,fuch as I have not found the parallel of in any church befidewhich have taken fad hold of me by their prayers of faith,they have fadned their grips fo that they will not let me go,for the cry of their prayers have come up before me, andcutreacheth the cry of their fins, for which I will make thevoice of the prayers of my remnant to be heard in fuch ac¬clamations of joy as (hall make the very earth rebound andecho, and the delivery fo clofe after the droke, as can hard¬ly be difeovered, a itmijie was given me, of two bufhesgrowing fo clofe together, that the cue could not be dd-cerned from the other, until thtiy were cut down and drawnafunder.ip Upon fabbath about cock crowing, I was awakenedcut of deep with a fharp rebuke, thus, How often dull Irebuke thee for concealing the defolatlng Itroke coming u-ron the land, which I laid before thee fo often, for which‘ i tbo jL 11 Jfhou hafl brought thy (elf very near that word, He that d?'nietli me before men, Mm v/ill I deny before my Fathefwhich is in heaven : yet (own thee to be faithful, pirtic;r"Jarly the iaft morning when l fent two men to thy houl^*thou difeovered to tlrem what I laid before tlieO, that theymay know that it camefrom me ; I own,that my remnaD1have taken bold of me by piayer, that they wiU nqt.ipt mego, for which my remnant wi!i be fo great in tbe land,that boufes to dwell in, or a piece of land svill be at ill toget as it is at thisiday. At the fame time it was faid ontome, I know the reafon thou art fo loith.to tell my rebukesit is becaufe of reports and country talk, for 1 hear it i« thereport ot forne, that what thou 1’poke it . was wrong ; butthis generation (lull know whether it was right or wrongfpoken, but thou muttered it aa mem do gear thief ftoilen,which durft not he avowed,, but remember. Him that con-fclfeth me before men, him will I confefs before my Fatherwhich is in heaven, and therefore lay forth my commifiionbefore the world, jet them take it asithey will.20. As I laid to thee long ago, there was not fuch a yearfince that when king Uzziah d:ed, as (hall fall, out at thistime, and in a few years, which is to let you know, thattime is my own. No man is to know' it further than fpleafe, I will (hew particular figns to the world of thatyear coming, but ye (hall not know when they come, nortbe nature of them, for they (hall fpeak for themfelveswhen they come.21. Jan. 13. At night beifcg awake, I was inflantlycaft into a deep deep,, and it was faid unto me, I have ci(tyou into a trance to d iipover things to. thee, and I faw ajheet white, and let down from a great height to the bed-(ide tied.at the four corners, and fettled, as I thought uponmy knees, and faltning my eyes upon it, I faw upon oneCde, a part of every fort of fowls, and at the other fide cutpieces of ilsfh, and as I was thinking upon it, it was faidto me, I will toll thee the meaning, the fowls is the gene¬rality of this generation, and the fiefh is the remnant,which is to let thee fed the good and bad live in one com¬munity together, and none of them will ekape my ftrokethat will come uptn the lapd, for 1 am provoked to angerBy this generation n th:s place by the following fins, pride,whoredom, curfipp, fwearing, l)1rtg, and walking_B 2 contrary'.ji . C 12 3contrary to my commands every way, that Lam provokedeven by their buying and felling, for which I have tworods, the rod of mine anger, and the rod of my jealoufy,wherewith I will even purfue them to the wildernefs of Zionand there will I let them fee the want of bread and water.22. Another time being awaJce, there was a voice fpoketo me, faying, That the ifle betwixt Kintyre and Carrick,which Ihould occafion great blood both in the eaft and weftof Scotland and particularly in the fouth of Carrick; thenI perceived tour (hips which received a commiflion to cometo Lochkillicran, called the (hips of Tarfhifli, which wasto raze this place by burning houfes, which Ihould makethe inhabitants to flee to the mountains, they that take holdof me by prayer for their refuge, will be fafe ; but thofe thattake not hold of me for their flielter, though the commonenemy Ihould not purfue them, yet they fhall not efcape myjudgments which I will inflidt upon them, whether by pef-tilenceor any other ftroke; for there are many (hips gather¬ed hither, fome for plunder, fome for accomplifhing theftroke, yet they fhall be all broken and fcattered by veryfmall means, particularly I apprehended one fmall fhip,which fought a great parcel of thefe fliips.23. In the fame month, as I was fitting in my bed, Ifaw as it had been the shape of an ax, laid before me in thebed all crushed together into one lump, and the houflel ofit out of all shape, and while I looked upon it, it was faidunto me, I will shew thee the meaning, This is the king ofFrance his armies which shall be made that they shall nei¬ther cut nor fell in the time when he hath mod ado withthem, a little thereafter in the morning in a furprizingmanner, it * as faid to me, I have got more lofs in mychurch by the king of France than by any prince in Europe,for he hath brought ray church in that land to a very fmallremnant, (ifany,) for which I will make him as the topof a rock, that hath neither grafs nor earth.24. Being afkep, f apprehended I faw a man, as I waswalking in the fields, coming to me, 1 asked him, Whathe bad in his hand ? he anfivered, it is a .rown, I haveoften made offer of it to thee and thou refufed it ; I faid, Ido not defire a crown, neither would take it, he rqrlied,Co on in revealing what I have laid before thee, and thounot want tby reward; but if thou refufe to declare' wha'tC 13 ]what 1 lay before thee, I will make thee an example, fuchas there never was the like laid on a bed before thee; 1fallning mine eyes on the man at a diftance from me, I fawa great ftone fall on a fudden, as from the very clouds,betwixt him and me, and he faid. As thou haft feen thisftone fall on a faddcn, lo tvill I bring the ftroke upon tinsgeneration : but yet they will not believe it, till it cometo their very door, and thou fnalt not fee it.2$. Jan. 16. 1730. It was faid to me, I fent thee oneof the bailhes of Campbelton, to whom thou dtfcoveredmany things, which had been laid before thee, and he com¬ing home did not conceal the fame ; which made the mini-fters and fome others come to thee, to whom thou alio gavea large account of things laid before thee, which they havenot difeovered, except to fome principal men of the city,and in fo doing they have wronged this generation.26. Another time I faw a creature, the likenefs of 3fowl, and as I wondered what it could be, I heard as ifit had been the voice of one alking what I looked upon ? Ifaid, A fowl, but cannot underftand what it is. I wasanfwered, This is the red dragon fpoken of in the revelati¬on, which fought with Michael and his angels, which wasthe occafion of thefe bloody napkins on which thou faw thenames of the twelve apoftles and of the Lamb, which Ifhewed thee a great while ago, I was alked again. Whatfeeft thou ? I anfwered, A white throne ; and it was repli¬ed, The Lord hath ereifb’d a throne upon the earth, forthe Lord hath faid he will come down, and fee if the finsof the land be according to the cry thereof, if not he willknow, for he is about to execute bis wrath upon this land,for many fins, particularly for breach of covenants 5>etweenman and man, and betwixt nation and nation, and perfon-al covenants at his table: but efpecially the folemn leagueand covenant, which was made in my name, for which Iwill pour out my wrath ; but I have a remnant which {ballefcape. for thefe ends, left theemmy fhould mock and fayto them, is this the reward of your prayers and fadingsand communions, and all the nicer e; you have obferved,fince it fares with you as with ns ? I have kept you fo ma¬ny years blind, that my remnant may underlfand, that itwas not difeovered by any other light, for it is gone abroadamong my enemies, That an old blind ma$ that haih lienfo—   L i4 3~fo many j'ears upon his bed, is made to difcover ail tbefefecrets and defigns : which makes them crttonillied.27 Feb .1. About two in the afternoon, being iiirpriz-ed v.'ith a great light, it was faid to me, Mu ft I be ac¬countable of my delivery to thee, fo thou for thy receivingfrom me thou muft (land before the judgment-feat of Chrid,and witnefs thy delivery to this generation. 1 know thouhaft omitted a great part, which thy memory could notcontain, for which I do not quarrel thee. 1 take heavenand earth to withefj, that I am laying before thee the fallof Babylon, and ruin of Ronaifta Aotichnft. I was fo takenwith theie words, that I made my appeal, that I wouldconceal nothing that he would keep upon my memory.Then I was anfwercd, 1 am preparing a facrince in Babylonwhich will make the fowls of the air, and beads ot the fieldto eat the fMh and drink the blood of Antic!’,rift, accord¬ing to that feripture, Rev. vvi. 2. &c~. Far J have a rem¬nant that will take warning and leave her fins which lhallcfcape her judgments; but there is an unaccountable mul¬titude which I will (weep away in her deftrudlion : forthofe whom the fword dull leave, the famine audpeftilence(hall find out, and I will bring a nation fuch as was not inmy land fince the vifitatlon in Ireland. The fun and moonfliall be concerned as they were at the time when Ifra^ a-venged themfelves on their enemies. All this 1 had in thevifion of light.58. Another time 1 faw a man coming to me, who faidHe had no great commiffion at the time, only, the devilhad taken his journey to excite and ftir up the inftrumentswho were to accomplifh the defolating ftroke and fall ofAmicbrift in this land.29. Feb. 9. After the fame manner I heard one laying,I will drive this generation in my anger, as the fm^ke of afurnace is driven which no man can gather or bring backwhere it was; for I will make their allies like a furnacethatburneth, which when it is pad, men go and look intothe furnace, and can fee nothing but ashes; for the moftpirt of this generation make a mdek at all my warnings ofjudgments, but they shall all be accomplished within a fewyeir,, as 1 have told thee in fonte warnings before, Jin.Thefe fins, breach of covenant, and Satan’s fin*Which call him out of I earsn. &e. At the fame time, 1lawn ]law a man is wiili a drawn fword in liis liand, who laid, Iam come down to take peace from the earth and to pro¬claim wfer agaihft Antichnft, <&c. by Michrel and his an-ptls with this fword, with which I have given him oneftroke already, And I. heard another angel crying with aloud voice, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, and is become thehabitation of devils,- Rev. xiv. 8, tec. For AntichriA hathalfumcd to himfelf a name of being Chrift’s Vicar, whichis Chrift’s equal : whereas 1 have no equal neither will haveany man have that name on earth. 1 will root out Anti-chrift, and it (hall be with him as with the world at thelaft day, "when 1 Ibali diilbive it into nothing, it (hall nev¬er take root again, which 1 will Ihortiy accomplifh.30. Feb. ri. While I lay upon my bed, about two ofthe clock afternoon, the vificn of light appeared fo great,that I thought there was no houl’e above me, only clothes,and 1 heard a voice faying, As 1 am in heaven, and thouupon earth lying upon thy bed, I will give this generation aftroke that all the doctors on earth cannot cu.e. Then 1apprehended a man walking by me with a feal in his hand,and he flood (till, and lifted up his right hand, and (woreby him that liverh for ever and ever, That he had oftenforetold, but they would not believe, but mocked at allthe warnings, neither wilt thou believe thyfelf; hut thefethat will not believe I will tre^d as mi e in the ftreets,which (hall be accomplilhed in a few years. I had allb indear letters laid before me. Fight and overcome, threetimes repeated. And another faid, What (hall we do ?To whom it was replied. He that will not fight, (hall notovercome.31. Feb. 17. Near fun-fetting I was furprized with agreat light, and while 1 fat beholding it, one appeared iome faying, 1 will tdl thee the meaning of the light, it isto let the world lee it is not by natural light ail thefe thingsare revealed to thee ; for I have taken away the lefler lightand given tl ee the greater nifttad thereof; I have foundthee faithful in proclaiming my commiflions, which hathbeen withftood by Ibme in the place ; but be they great orfmall that withstand thee, go thou on in fulfilling thename of a commiflioner, left i call thee by a more dread¬ful name, and as thou has dilcovered great things, I will*l.cw thee g-cater tilings which thou shah deliver allb.ThatC 16 JThat fame night I was awaked from fieep with a great lightI faw as if the clouds had been open, and in a brightcloud I heard a voice faying, Glory be to our God, thatis our God upon the throne, and to the Lamb which hathtaken unto thee thy great power and hath reigned, whohath judged the great whore that fittetji upon many waters,which hath made the kings of the earth drunk, with thewine ofher fornication, as fh? hath made them druuk withthe cup, fo I will make all the kingdoms of the world withthe blood of her deftruftion. And I heard another fay.Thou haft rightly judged her, for fhe delighted in theblood of thy fervants, and thou haft given her blood todrink. Then I heard a great lamentation, mourning andcrying, to which while I iiftned, it was faid, I will tellthee what that great cry meaoefh, It is the deftrudtion ofthele who received the mark of the bead on their right-hand and forehead?- Then there appeared to me a vaftfield of flain men. which none could number, and theirblood running upon the earth. Then I faw as it were athrone ertifted in heaven, and on it one like unto the Sonof man, clothed with a gument down to his feet, and giftabout the paps with a gulden girdle, faying. Rejoice overher ye heavens, and ye prophets and holy apoftleS, for Godhath avenged you upon her. And a mighty angel took upa ftone like a milftone and caft it into the fea, fiying, Thuswith violence {hall that great city Babylon be thrown downto be found no more at all.32. Feb. 21. It was laid before me in printed letters,That the Lord was about to plead with Antiehrift for theblood fhed ofhis fervants by him, fince he had a beginningwhich he would inftance in thefe nations following, Ger¬many, Bohemia, Piedmont, France, Spain, Britain, andIreland, and particularly the bloody houfe of Auftria, andfor what was done in the Netherlands, which was made de¬folate not for their own quarrel but tor mine, becaufetheywould not deny me ; and acknowledge the Pope to be headof my church. At the fame time it was faid, I will razethe kingdom of Spain as the top of a rock that hath neitherfood for man nor beaft, but I will firft bring him to Bri¬tain to avenge me of mine enemiep, and for the injuries•done me and my church there, and then I will take thefod and throw it in the fire, and curfed be that man thatrefufetbrefufelh to gp forth, and bathe his fwcrd in the blood ofAfltichrilh33- At another time, I perceived a man walking with aninkhorn by his Tide, and a pen in his band, and when I fatt¬ened mine eye? upon him, he faid, I am to fer a rf.atk ardheal upon the followers of ti e Ltimb, to dittingiffh themfrom thofe that have the mark of the beaft in the approach¬ing and delolating ftroke.34 At another time it was laid before me, by three (i-milies, what he would do with AntichrilS, the frft was of afifher drav/ing his net, and every fifh that wanted fins andfeales, he threw into the ground of the fea, where they werftnever found any more ; the fecond was of a man taking uhandful of faud, and throwing it sgalnft the winds that Itwas never feen or heard any more ; the third was a man cut¬ting down a field of corn, who left fome (talks (landing andfeme fall'ng, and afterwards fetking for feed in thefehe found them all conlomed and rotten in the heart. Atthe fame time a great light appeared unto me, which rrrdeme much concerned, and it was faid to me, I have touchedthy lips for this end, that thou rnay accomplitti the eoriimif-fion I have delivered unto thee ; declare thou to this genera¬tion, That they (hall look to the fouth, and fee the Spanifharmy great and very cruel ; for they (hall do accoiding tothat feripture, Amos v. The city that goes out by a thoufaulshall leave a hundred, and the city that goes out bydred shall leave ten to the houfe of Jfrael, faith the Lord ;yet notwithttanding I will caule my remnant in this land tobathe their (words in the blood of Antichrift I faw in avifion, that Chrift’s church mutt go into the furnace, andthere be purged, for he will have a pure church, or no churchat all, for he will have his church purged from all the defil-ing errors and fuperftitious herefies which (he hath been often *brought under by antichriftian prelates for he will have hischurch and fpoute a chafte bride unto him. Then ] fiw aman coming unto me with a crown in his hand, who fa dThis is the crown which drift’s church (hould receive in theday of her efpoufals unto him, becaufe antichrift hath en¬larged hell with the fouls of thefe whom he h ,th drawn awaywith his fyperftitious idolatry, I will take unto me my great^ power[power and reign, and throw him into the lake of fire, whichburneth ,with fire and brimftone.3J. March 2t. I faw a man pafling by me, who afkedWhat I Taw in his hand, I faidr A crown. Immediately hereturned the fame way, and I law fomething in his otherhand, bat could not undcrftand what it was, whereupon beanfwered, Ye have an old tradition in your nat'ue land.That the righteous heir to the crown is commonly knownby the ftar on his fide, fo this in my hand is the ftar where¬by 1 am known to be heir of my father’s crown. There isan antichridian psrty who defigns to rob my father of Iriskingdom in this land, and I am my father’s only fon, thefan of his love, and who hath holden forth to the world ;and who is more obliged to Itand for the intereft than theheir ? they have defamed my fpoufe and bride by calling hera. menfts'uous woman with whom none may cpnyerfe, and“who is obliged to own the bride, but the bridegroom ? As1 live, I will ride my horte to the girths in the blood ofAutichrill. For as great as their army is which is combin’fug among tire antichriftian party, 1 can break them allwithout Itroke of fword ; and for as low as they think myf&terclt in this land is, I will let them fee that I have a par¬ty that will appear againft them, whofe armies I will maketo profper.36. March 22. There appeared a man walking by me ;and I asked where he was going ? He anfwered, Aik abkfling for this land before the llorm and cloud break uponft, which is juft at the breaking. Another anfwered andJaid, It is well done, for there will be need for it, for be-fore the (form he at an end, there (hall be many brokenplanks and hoards among ur, And pafling by again, he wasa iked, Whither he was going ? he anfwered, He was go¬ing to beg the fpirit of God to this land and minilters, for it"Was withdrawn at the time. Then he pslfed by again, andh id like a piece of a broken pitcher jn his hand ; and beingaiked what he was going to do with it, he replied, He wasgoing to make it new again : the other aniwered, It wasnever known that any old broken pitcher or pot was madsnew ! but he palling on, returned immediately with it wholein his hand, and fivd, This is to let you fee, that, altho’they fbould break all my church to fliivers, I can renew itagain- Then it was la'dj All that, is good, but that doth® not( 19 )not Catufy us,- if thou return not to thytelS a.gain,, He ao-ftvered, I will certainly return ; fori will be brought backby the wreftlings and prayers of the laints*57. Marcli 24. It was faid to rne, l have ! .‘J beforethee many fimilies which was thought ftrange. 1 will (fitthee another ftrange fimile concerning the men who dependupon the world for their fhelter in the enfuing Ihoke: Icompare-the world to an old rent mantle wh'ch a man talc,eth about him, in a ftormy day he draws it up to cover hishead, and his feet are all hare, and when he wraps his handsin it to cover himfeif before, it is riven all behind, and hisback is all bare, is is fo narrow, let him do what he wilt,rbere is more bare than covered.38. March 37. About the midle of the day, 1 faw aman in a vifion, a man of a very high llature and angrycountenance, faying, That this kud and people had wrong¬ed him of his name and title which pertained to him as Cu¬preine head of the church, in that they had n'cknamed himby the name of the curled prelate, and hath given me ano¬ther name, which they call, Fanatic. Then there appear¬ed to me another man of a very comely gelhire, who en¬quired, Who it was that fpoke with me ? I anfwered, Icannot tell. He faid, 1 will tell thee, It is Antichtiif whois difpleafed for wronging his name, and then fpake thus,Praife be to him that rides in heaven, by his name J A H,his name for ever and ever lhail endure; and repeated ma¬ny names which the Lord takes to himfeif: he was fuch aIhining gefture as I cannot venture to exprefs. This I fawunder the vifion of a great light.29. That fame night about ten o’clock, I was awakenedout of Deep, with a furprifmg light, as if there had beenno houfe above me, but the clouds all in light; and whileI was admiring it, I heard one faying to me, Lopk aboutthee, wlpch when I did, I faw a great cloud coming fromthe fouth, very black and great, it neither touched theclouds above, nor the earth beneath : then he faid, Thatcloud is a combination of France, Spain, Italy and Rome,for ruining of Britain and Ireland, I anfwered. What (hallwe do in fuch a dark time of fuch a great cloud, vyhicb weare not able to rtfid i he laid. Ye muft do as a man doththat hath-a great (Warm of bees which he cannot get com¬manded : he caketh a vdTel and cufteth water among!! themC 2 by[ 20 ]by which he maketh them fall to the ground, and lb they“either fling «or wrong h:m untill he putteth them intotbe i'cap which he had defigned for them. Then I faid,V/iiat \* .ter can we calf upon lb great an army that canharm them ? He anfwered, Tne vengeance of almightyGod : T'o v/hich l auiwefed. Can we lake the water, or4 command the vengeance or almighty God ? He replied.You niidt call co God by prayer in faith, for he keeps thecup of vengeance in his own hand, and will throw it in a~mong tnctn, which will make them all fall to the groundlike bee , and they fltall not move until he put them intothe place which he hath piepaied f r them, winch is thebottom el} pit; there they Hull Iting his people no more :For the Loid will do with • is great army, as a man cut-teth down his harvtlt when a dorm anfethhe regardeth nei¬ther highnels ucr ioulueis, lb dial he cutteth down more inone hour, than he did in a whole day before. Then faid I-Lord, what will 1 do in lucii a dejected coi.dition, for I pro-niiled tt u 1 wdl conceal nothing, and I know they will notbelieve m- ! And he laid, Ye have an old proverb, Seeingis believing, all the world over ; 1 will let them lee it, andif leemg will not nuke them believe ir, I will make themfeel it, for that which toucheth a man he believeth it.Then 1 fa.d, flow can I diicover it wh n my memory can¬not contain it by a great part ? He anfwered, I create theear to hear, and will give thee memory that thou maylt de¬liver to tois generation as much as wul leave them withoutexcufe, or to fay that I brought a ftroke upon them with¬out giving them warning. I snow many will mock till theybe infatuate that they lhall not know their enemies fromtheir triends: therefore go thou on in warning, and I willmake good my word to thee. Then 1 faid, 1 have foundmore of thy word in fo met difeoveries than I can find intub ; upon which the word was laid before me, Cod viyfciivation is become> &c. And further he laid, fhis maybe among the lad I’ll trouble thee with, iho’ it be not thelead. 1 auwc.iv all . ed 1 wu not afleep at this nm :, butreceived uie commiilion an law the vuioa with iuefa deepimprtffions under that light which f ibibear to exprels tothe world.40. April 1. Aouus t-D of t e el ck at night, a greatlight dumng about me, i; was G.d b.fore me that he wagbringing[ 2i ]bringing a great army of French, Spainyards, Romilh, anda part of every nation about them, to bring on a ftrohe onth'sland for broken covenants, or flighted golpel, and the a-bounding fins of the land, and the blood of thole who tefti-fied to the covenants, for, faith he, I will make the earthfull of the blood of my enemies in this land ! But 1 knowa great many in this land will join with them, but fuch fliallfall with them, fo as to have neither name nor remembrancein it afterward. But I have rderved 7000 men that haverot bowed the knee to Baal, which fhall be the feed thatfhall do me fervice in this land. I will have a gloriouschurch in this land, which Ihall be admired of ail the earth.41. April 2. It was faid to me, How long fhall this ge¬neration defer to bear my warnings ? 1 will make this landwithout bread or water, f>r I am more concerned for thisland, while they forbear to h.ar my wrarn.ngs, than forthe wildernefs of Zin wherein no man dwells. This landIhall be brought to that pafs, that one lhail hardly find aman to alk how he fended in the ftorm.42. April. 5. About the midle of the day, tliere appear¬ed to me a great light, and it was faid unto me, I have nogreat commiflion for thee at this time, being to go to thenorth of Scotland to tell them, That now their cup is full,and ere long it fhall he as empty as ever it was full ; formany of them Ihall never have a full cup in this place again,and it feems to be one of the lalt warnings.43. April 15. it was faid unto me, I have given out along roll of warnings, but this generation hath mocked atthem, and now I am to go to the main land of Scotland,and to tell them that thofe warnings they receive from thisplace darkly, fnall fliortly be acccmplilhed, for I have aremnant of tender-hearted chriltians here, who will lay itto heart, but this place is hardened by mocking and Icoflingfo that any tender-hearted chriftian dare not let it be knownthey lay it to heart, lell they be mocked by their neighbours.But this generation Ihall have few more warnings, till theybe warned with the fword in their own boibms 1 The firityear shall lay the land defolate. Their defign is to put theirpretended king upon the throne, hut they shall-llbon putthe wild fox that runs in the wood upon the throne as theyshall put him or any of that race upon it, as my lervants,hanged on gibbets to: adhering to my inteteil, have teltifi.ed and declared.44* AprilC 22 ]44. April 21. In eveniojr of" tins day, 1 /aw the ap'■joearanee ofa inan, whofaid unto me, You hare bad a longfimirner feafon in this land, but ye (five been like the/lag¬gard, when he faid, Cbnlidet- the ant tltou flnggard, whichpreparerh her fobd in the fulmner, and is fixt for the ftorm.A truly good bnfbindrnan when he meets with a good fea-lon, does not ly by and miliniprove his time, but cuts downand gathers in till he have all fecureJ within the fence, andrlo/ech up the /laps, and then he is fixed for the winter diftrefsI Would ye were often with Gideon and David in the fieldof prayer. 1 have given thee two warning* to the north ofScotland already, I will givte you another, The barley caketumbling into the camp of Midipn, and turning down theirrents.45'. In the evening of that feme day, the light was ex¬ceeding great tor a long time, I beheld a roll but could noturtdcrftand .a vvord of it, upon which one faid to me, I amfont from heaven to tell thee, thrt this is the light of heaven,but 1 am to give warning of a dark night to come on Bri¬tain and iretand ! I condcllendeJ not long ago, to lay outfigrrs, and propoli'd months and days, but ye mocked andmade light of it, but I (hall now give a fign, und ye «ha1!no where know years, months, weeks nor days, but whenit come* ye shall all fee it, for the fun and moon shal fallin one co-nrfe, but what further is to be feen I will refer tillthe vifion fpeak for itlelf, for there was never man faw fuchnight of daiknefs, for there shall neither be moon-light norftar light through the whole three kingdoms, from the oneend to the other, ail shall feel that darknels.46. May 6. It was laid to me, arife and appear as ifthou were about to prepare a ship, and when this generati¬on shall alk what thou mesneft ? thou shalt anfwer, It i*for you to go to the loath fea, and view what a great fleet•is preparing to invade Britain afid Ireland, and if (hey regardnot tiiec, prepare a fecond, and when they ask the meaninganfwer in like manner, and if they regard not that, makea little boat which needs no ferls, and if they ask, Whatthou meane/l by fuch a little boat, then fay thou, The leaftfishing boat that goes about the rock to catch fish, ihallferve you to go the length to lee that fleet which i,s coming,Jay this before this generation, left they fey that I came u-pon them without warning,47. May?( 23 ]47- May 7. Tn t?;c morning, there appeared before me,rs light and two men walking before, the one hatf as it werea fwortl in his hand, acd a> I looked at th< in, all difap-peared at that time ; and in the latter part of the day, thevifion returned and fixing tny eyes upon the two men, theone had a great fword in bis hand, that had neither hilts norbars, upon which I was afked, What J thought of that manwith the fword in his hand ? I could, not teih for he lookedlike a gourd angry man, and had freel haruetfing from head, to foot, he replied, This is to fed yon that he is a man aidefor all that pppofe him, and needs neither hilt nor bar, tocut down this ganeratipn and faye ? remnant. Then I an-Avered, {cannot ftc how a man with luch a fyyQrd yjd in{'uch a rage as he feems to be can fdve a remnant, to whichit was replied, I will let thee fee that prefently, then I fawat a diftance from me a?it had been a company of men andbe faid, There is a company of men, and the man \yirh thefwnrd hath one fon in the company, upon which T f-w theman begin and cut clmwn the company with the fword, andnone ifeaped till he came to his own fort, and as he wasfetching a broke at him lie did not run away nor defift, butgrafped h:m in his arms, and cried, Be merciful father, Iaan your own for., and when He bsard the voice of his it#!,be let the fwprd fall till the point buck in the grnpnd ondnever touched him, then I heard as if the one had faid totheother, flow can we believe fiich warnings as chefe (pokenby fuch a man, when it isreported 1 y men cf great flcilj thathe is out of order and of a light brain ? The other anfwer-ed, 1 am the root and effipriug of ihiyld, the brigbi mora-ing bar, 1 hold the feve-n bars in my right hand, who dare1'ay unto me, What dob thou ? And when I have a warningto give, I choofe whom 1 pleafe to give forth my warnings,, if my warnings hear not my feal, and he not according tomy word, tbev quarrel it, but they are not concerned withthe commifitoner, what condition he be in, that is mashingto you, and you have no more anfwer tp e.xpeCl from me atthis time.48. Upon Friday following, 1 was warned by a voxe,that he was preparing a facr.ace in the iCmds of Britain andIreland, particularly in the highlands of Scotland, then Iheard one faying, O that ibis generation both men and wo¬men would believe this and ] jy it to beai t, what a time thiswiH be when they fliall he awaketyed out of their beep, antipoflibly, t 24 -]poflihly fee nothing hut their neighbours houfcs qll in a flameif not their own. This I have laid befoie you ip the nameof the Lord.48. In 1736. in the vifion of light, I thought I was in apleafant field, and there . ppeared unto me a man in whitefliining raiment, faying unto me, What feeft thou ? I an-fwered, A hefh full of branches and hloflom . Then he bademe draw near, and lo ! In a moment it all withered anddecayed, except the heart of the bufli : I flood flill till thebu(h was cut down by the root as with a feythe, at which Iwept fore. But, in a little time I beheld a bufh fpring upout of the heart of the flock, far move beautiful and glori¬ous than thefirft, then I afked him the meaning, he anfuer-ed, The flrfl buft) thou fawefl: is the pretent degenerate a-poflatized church of Scotland, which I will fvveep away inmine anger : And whereas thou faw a bufli fpring up fromthe root of the former bufli, this is the remnant that f havereferved to myfelf in the defolating ftroke, which fhatl bethe feed of my church, whofe purity, beauty and giory (hallbe fo great, that the very hills and mountains fhall ringwith the report thereof. Amen.The Requeft of John Porter, to all whofliall have occafton to hear or read the fore¬going Difcoveries and Warnings.IEarneflly defire all who fhall either hear of, or fliallhave occafion to read what has been difeovered to meand I in obedience to the command given me, have com¬municated to others from firft to laft, according as is re¬vealed in thefe few pages. That they receive them not asthe produft of my own contrivance, or invention from light-nefs of brain or melancholy, as fome have taken the libertyto forge ; for I declare. That notwithftanding of my blind-nefc for fo long time, I am ripe in my memory and judgmentand I am fully aflured of the way they were delivered untome. latteff, that I received them with fuch power as I can¬not exprefs ; and that I do not offer to impofe upon the pre-fent generation, I dare appeal with confidence unto God,to whom I mull fliortly give an account of my receivingsand difeovrries, and not to any man. John porter.F I N 1 S.