FOUR EXCELLENT'S O IV €r S.KATE MOONEY’S PORTION.WHEN JOHN AND ME WERE MARRIED.KENMURE’S ON AND AW A’.GOW’S FAREWELL TO WHISK YNE WT ON: &TE WA R T :PRINTED, AND SOLD WHOLESALE AWRETAIL, BY J. M’NAIRNVsrj.8 {.> ft O 8yiOITHOcl ^/Ya/OOM 3TAyCC \i\ ;,! v. o ’A’ •. t 1W. CIV k VA\0’ V.rd\VH.'AY/A CU</ T/fO 8M}IIJI/^a>iYX8H1Y/ or .uawariA^ 8*7/00KATE MOONEY’S PORTION,A FA V OF 111 TE SONG.My nameOne dauAlter I have and she is wanting a. man,° i,It is mv intention hei fortune to mention,1 Y . • , ■ ■ 1' ■ •' ,And get h$r a husband'as. soon as I can.'j'here’s a house and a'garden a snug little farm,Three cows that from Kerry my grandfather senAn old riding mare she’s blind I declare,She’s twenty years old on the first of next Lent.Dick Mooney, I’m very near dying,A sow and 9 young ones that’s thick with the measles.With sheep half a doz^n all thick with the mange,W ith cow-house and garden besides a large stable,With hog-stye and hen house, that’s all in one range.[Nine geese and a gander, like any commander,•./illA •- A fli ' 1 iA3.rrfcfM f-alo ilajla ic s nJiI eg&! r-vUHe rules all the fowl in our farm yard, j... ] . AWith a large turkey cock, he’s the flower of the flock,He’s as proud as a Spaniard when marching on guard..',1kH ok ml' sfoon vs' '•«> nih ttsov uovos eWfl'l'I’m now going to mention her dresses of fashion,That lately has cost a dozen of pounds,Six gowns of musin with- three rows of flounces,Their equal is not in this whole country round.A Leghorn bonnet besides a grey heaver,With ribbons and feathers of red white and green,A second hand spencer, to dress her out clever,With shoes, boots and s'andles that’s tit for a queen.■ A. v o c 02 }*««! schM.'ina«b-i9d mnaV i>*HA squeezer’s in fashion I pray don’t be laughing,With plates of strong whalebone, her body to peg,Lac’d up in the middle as tight as a fiddle,With a dandy mutch that’s the prince of her dress/’Then fifty bright guineas I’ll give in the bargain!So young men be centring as fast as you can,nan orviic JovnoJjAfttiVVn aHI ler beauty to mention It’s not worth a farthing,But I’ll do my best like a true honest man.'orfj unfit odl ?d eiodw tollShe’s short o; five feet by-a couple of inches,[There’s no barrel cLurn her body would hold,4H«c legs like a mile-stone or shaft of an engine,And her beatiful skin is the colour of gold.Hey.eyes like two sovereigns, shining like fire,Yott'd think every moment their strings they would crackThere’s seven years dirt on her neck I'm no liar,Ahd a nose on her face like a West India black.Her hands and her arms are as black as the devil,'fids beatiful damsel, so mild and discreet,With a belt and broad buckle her waist to adorn,While bog dirt, in plenty is stuck to her feet.Her elegant.Carriage would charm any lover,Her breath has the scent of a soap-boiler's-pan,Had Venus her charms, she must go a courting,But never, I am asure, would she get a young man.. • f ' 1 4 ' ' ' V i ' • • • ' ; • V. 7 * • ‘ ■ ' ' 'So now I intend for to finish my ditty,Let any young hero whose courage is bold*Attend unto me and I’ll- give him Miss Kitty,With all my whole farm and stock I have told.He may easily get one possessed of more beauty,Or one that is cleaner he'll easily find,But where is the farm the stock and the money,for that is the thing now et this present time.5'KENMURE’S ON AND AW A’,.■O KENMURE’S on and awa’ Willie,O Kenmuve’s on and awa’;And Kenmure’s lord’s the bravest loixl,That ever Galloway saw.,v :.c. a .i c i. i o-<": ')i! 'Success to .Kenmure’s band Willie,Success to Kenmure’s banflThere’s no a heart that fears a WhigThat rides by Kenmure’s hand.. /.-wv!!Here’s Kenmure’s health in wine, Willie,Here’s Kenmure’s health in wine ;There ne’er was a coward o’ Kenmure's blude,Nor yet o’ Gordon’s line.O Kenmure’s lads are men, Willie,O Kenmure’s lads are men,Their hearts and swords are metal true,.And that their faes shall ken.They’ll live or die wi’ fame, Willie,They’ll live or die wi' fame.6•AWA m '■ ■But soon 'wi’ sounding victonyMay Kenmure’s lord come hame,V.1'AHere’s him that’s far awa’/Willie.Here’s him that’s far awa’ ;And herd’s the flower that I lo-’e best.The rose that’s like the snaw.ohnAIT5Cl3WHEN JOHN AND ME WERE MARRIED,b i« fl ‘aiiJ It sol I r; on g'ot'jilT. . /mama^xd .abii ImiTWhen John and we were married,Our haddin’ was but sma’,For my minnie canker’t carlin,V\rad gie us nceht ava.I wairt my fee, wi’ canny care.As far as it would gao,But well I wat our bridal bedWas clean pease strae.namni/tfnulQI 0Wi’ working late and early,We’re come to what you see ;.For fortune tbrave aneath our hands,Sae eident aye were v. e.The lowe of love made lab bur light.inn t! : re JTVedTFin sure ye’ll find it sae,When kind ye cuddle doivn at e’en,’Mang dean pease strae.'nott yi !j r: . )ol> nit t iT: " In ■■ -nl ■ ■ Vi',' . i.1 lie rose blossoms gay on cairny brae,As vveei 8 m birken shaw,And love will lowe m cottage low,As vveel’s in lofty ha ;Sae, lassie, tak the lad ye like,Whate’er your mlnnie say, 'Tho’ you sliould'm it‘your bridal bedOf clean pe'ake^^frke/',W/euna( Iduu no dii'iI; I llita •nilifldffBO 1COW’S FAREWELL TO WHISKY.iwiim •ii'jilt ni om igiii.Ueiriee waBmilYeu’ve sutely beaid o’ famous Neil,i lie man that played the fiddle weel,I wat be was a canty chiel’,And dearly lo’ed the whisky, OAnd ay sin he wore tartan trews,He dearly lo ed the Athole brose ; 0And wae was lie you may suppose, \ j rTo play farewell to whisky, O.Jtncng noitsJnomal s dam oTAlake, quotb Neil, I'm frail and auld, . )And find my bluid is growing cauld;f think ’twa<l mak me Wytle atul baulJ,A wee drap Highland Whisky, 0*Yet the doctors they do a’ agree,That whisky's no the drink ftjr me :Saul, qnotH Neil, ’twill spoil my glee,Should they part me and Whisky, OiTho’ J can get baith wine and ale,And find my Head and fingers hale,1*11 be content, tho’ legs should fail,To play fareweel to Whisky, OiTut still I think on auld langsyne,When Paradise our friends did tyne,Because something ran in their mindForbid, like Highland Whisky, O.Come a’ ye Towers of Music, Come !1 find my heart grows unco glum ;My fiddle strings will no play bum,To say fareweel to V( hisky, .OYet I’ll tak my fiddle hr 'toy hand,And screw my pegs.Up while they 11 standTo mak a lamentation grand,On gude atdd HigHlittkl \\ hisky, O.