FUN UPON FUN ?OR, THEComical and Merry TricVso FJLeper the Tailor,IN TWO PARTS.PAISLEY:PRINTED DY G. CALDWELL j, NEW STRESTWbsrx: is always Ic-pt on Sale, a ch.ice andextensirt -V-..cf ILsJories, Songs, Children’s Sh-ry Sooks,School Books, &c. &c# Ac,tie. I1. -COMICAL TRANSACTIONS,O FOSPSSR tbe'TAIIiOMPART I.Leper’s father lived in a village about«x miles from Glasgow, and died whenhe was but very young ■, he left a widowand three children, two daughters, and ason ; Leper being the youngest, v,a -: gre¬atly idoliz’d by his mother, who was agood soft natured woman, very industri¬ous and followed the business of bleach¬ing cloth.As Leper grew up he grew a wry mis¬chievous boy, playing many tricks on theneighbourhood, such as tying cats to dogs’tails, breaking liens’ legs, stopping peo¬ple’s lums, or chimney-tops; so that hispoor mother was sadly vexed with com¬plaints against him.To . get him kept from mischief, dieprevailed with a tailor to take him an cp.prentice : he settled, and was very peace¬able for some time, until he got so much4*af his traJe on his fi' ger ends »s he mightpass for a journeyman, and then he u-aaindifferent whether he staid with his mas¬ter or not: his mi-tress gave him but-lit-nle meat \yhen he wrought at home, so heliked best to be in other houses, where hegot meat and diversion.Leper being resolved eu revenge againstbis mistress for lier thin kail, no kitchen,atd little bread ; for tho’ flesh was boiledin the potr tkere was.::one for poor Lepervnu his master, but a little bit on Sun¬days, and all the'bones were kept a*d putin the pot, to make the broth throughthe week. Leper pcrc: '. d always whenthe took off the pot, she turned her backvad took ou! the. lie h, and set it on *shelf in her own bedro-^w ; one night af¬ter work, he steals c- i a ran, cuts a piece•;f desh out of a clean horse, and then goes*<i a lime kilni and bods, it; next day hisr'jastt-r being from home, Ids landlady endbrii being in the .hotsse, after the had setoil’ the pot. a« usmil,' and takes 6;it her bit>; .■-r-e-l beef, -he goes t-m* for 'some time,<*.d then conies in, saying, the rrdmi-ter’sL-s is wishing to y.m, to go directlyVi .d speak to her mistress. Off she goesfu ail haste. Leper runs aifd takes away\tt'T bits of gootl meat, and lays down bishorse tlesb ; and knowing she would re¬turn in'a passion, and sit down vyith a sossin her eu&hioxiod chair, as she used, hetakes a lx"ge j>in; and staps it straight inthrough the cushion, with ds head oii thechair, and the point to her r . Soin she comes in a rage, and down she sitswith all her weight on the pin point, andthen roars out murder f murder ! for she¥?,is sti'.d-et .in the a—: the neighbours. entire runnirtgin, and Leper went out with*is bit of gems doef, leaving the wives todoctor his landlady’s dcup, as they pleas¬ed ; he stiil denied the doing of it, & hismaster belicwed it might happen acciden¬tally, but the hoodie was very oft to besad before it was got hale again ; and hislandlady by eating of that horse beef, took•uch a loathing at tlesh that Leper and insmaster got ail the beef ever-dter, and hislandlady turned one of the kindest mis¬tresses a prentice could tvisli foi.Ti.eie was a neighbour wife on whomLeper used lo play tricks sometimes, ibrwhich sire came and complained to hismaster and had him severely beaten sev-emi times ; Leper resolved to be revengedtin her ; so one night he came to the back -6fkic- hi the. bouse, (no more Wing in butWrseii) and took up ^ big stone, and runsalong the rough wait with all his strength,v hich roared like thunder in the inside ofthe house, and frighted the wife so, that'he thought the house was tumbling down^bout her lugs, and she ran out and satdown at a distance, looking every minutewhen the house \vould fall down, till herhusband came hoSe and persuaded her to-*0 in, to whom she told the above story j‘ bout tout, daft tapie,’ said he, ‘ the housewill stand these hundred years.’ Leperknowing they were both in, comes andplays the same trick over again, which alsofrightened the goodman so much, that hecried out—“run Maggy; run, for myheart plays pitty patty.” And they wouldnot lodge in the house any more, till themasons convinced them of its sufficiency.There was another neighbour who hada snarling cur deg, which bit Leper’s leg;J^cper resolved to be revenged on the dog,and so one night he catches the dog, andcarries him to the kirk where the rope ofthe bell hang on the outside, so with hisgarter he tied the dog’s fore foot to therope, and left him hanging; the dog strug-ghng t© get free set the bell a-riuging.niwhjtli alarmed tlie whole village'; everyone cried out, “wonderful fire ! wonderfulfi;e ! tilt* devil is ringing the bell.” Whenthey s*j.vy the black eolley hanging at therope, 1 true it set the minister, and allthe people to their prayers: but Leperfearing he would be detected by Ids gar*ter, came to the minister’s s’de, and ask¬ed the reverend gentleman what was thematter; indeed, my b;firn, said he, ’tisto deil ringing the kirk bell; says LeperI’ll go and see bun, for 1 never saw thedevil: the minister cried Stop the madLddie, but Leper ran and loosed the dog,crying, its such a man’s dog, which hadthe rope in its teeth ; they all cried out,“the ueil’s i’ the cur, the diePs P thedog;” then took up stones and felledpoor eolley, and the devil got the blameof making the dog ring the bell.—Thisspread Leper’s fame, for being one of thewisest and most courageous tailors thatwas in-all the kingdom ; and many shak¬ing their heads, said, “it was a pity liewas a tsiJoi, but a^iptain or general ofan army, as the de’^rcould not fear him.After this a farmer in the neighbour¬hood hearing the fame of Leper, how hehad frighted the deil frae being a bell-/sman, sent for him' to an als house, anddrank with him very heartily, and toldhirn he was sadly borne down by a spiritof jealousy against his wife : and a ssepi-C'On of her being to* free with a servanthe had before ; and if he would keep itsecret and learn him to find it out, he•r on id give his mother a load of meal, to- vmeh Leper agreed ; >o he gave the poorsopposed cuckold iTistructions how to be*have. So home he goes and feigns him¬self very sick, and every day worse and•, j... taking death to him ; blesses histhree small children, and charges his wifeot to mair/,. tsntil his ehiidcen could ho•mething for themselves. This hypo-critical woman takes a crying, Alta! mar-’ yf she would never m. n y i no, no, there•hall never a man iye o my vide, or kissmy lip* after thee, my on deer lamb Jolin-nv. i'hen he act* tit dead luun as wellas he possibly could ; the neighbours arccalled in, and he’s fauiy o’erseeh, as tho■*id saying is, before good neighbours.The sorrowful -.'idov^nade sad lament,wrung her hands ancWnre her hair.— 1 horeverend women ahom, began to dressdie corpse, asked her or a shu t: Ay, ay,said ihi>, he lias twa r.o.*, linen sacks, and9there is in aal d ant i n tiic bolt am o’ thefeisty that naabody can wear, o :y thingsgood enough for the- grave'; well,they, we must have some linen for a wind¬ing sheet; a-wet’l, quo she, i hae twa cutc’ linen i’ the ki-t neuk, hut- there’s apair o’ aiild fir.en sliectfi, hol’d i’ the mid¬dle, mar do iveii enough, I hae need tobe carefii’, 1 am a poor widow the daywi’ three sma’ bairns.Well, tlie corpse is dressed, *nd laidon the tap of the big chest, while neigh¬bours sat hy her condoling hei .misfortune,and how the funeral raisins, were to beprovided : said one the codin must needsbe seen about first. Ay, ay, he has some*iev,’ deals in the barn, he bought themto make a bed o’, hut we’ll no break them,there’s the an!d bam door, and the caffkist will do well enough, ony thing’s gutlrenough to gang to the grave wi’; but ()^uo she, tend for dandy, my honest anldhcrvant, and he’ii see every thing rightdone; I’ll teii him where he will get-siller to do any thing wi’, lie’s the lad thatwill not see nip wranged ; then Sandrcomes wrying his face, and luhbing Impeyes, O -Sandy, there’s a *ad alterationhere, ar.d ba-u'-ai, she erics like a bitten10calf, O sir?, wll ye gang a’ butt the housetill i tell him what to do ; butt they went,and tb*:re she fell a-kissing of Sandy, andsaid, now, my desr, the auld chatteringghaist is awa and we'll get our will o’ Uh-er ; be as haloing of every thing as ye can,for thou kens it’s a’ thy ain; but thecorpse’s sister and some other people com¬ing in, ben they came to see the corpse,lifts up the cloth off his face, and seeinghim ail in a pour cf sweat, said, heighhe’s a bonny corp, and a lively like col¬our. When he could no longer containhimself to carry on the joke, but up begot among them, a deal of people ran forit, and his wife cried out, O my dear doyou ken me ? Ay, you base jade andwhore, better than ever I did. Jumpson the floor, gets his staff and runs afterSandy, and catches him in the fields, alittle from the house;—ate and drankwith his sister and neighbours who hadcome to see his corpse; and poor Sandywent home with a skin full of terror, anda sorting of sore bones, took a sore fever,and died a few days after, so he got quitof his cuckolder, and Leper’s mother gother load of meal.keeper’s mother was a careful industrlious wife, but as the bye-word is ” a work¬ing mother makes a dally daughter,” and»o it happened here, for she had two idlegleaket sluts of daughters, that would donothing but lie in their bed in the morn¬ing, till, as the saying is, “ the sun waslike to burn a hole in their b— The old woman, who whs bleaching somecloth, was very early at work in the morn-ings, and Leper’s patience being wornout with the laziness of his two sisters,lie resolved to 'lay a trick on them, fortheir reformation ; so he goes and gets atnortcloth, and spread it on the bed abovethem, and sends the dead bell throughthe town, inviting the people next day atfour o’clock, afternoon, to the burial ofhis two sisters, for they had died suddenly :this brought all the neighbouring wivesin, who one after another lifted up thetnortcloth and said, with a sigh, they’vegone to their rest, a sudden call indeed !'fheir aunt hearing of this sudden suddennews, came running in all haste, andcom-mg where the jades’ mither was at work,and was ignorant of the story, she cries_ out, Fye upon ye, woman, fye upon ye !Whab’s the matter, sister, says she, what’sthe matter! I think you might let your12work stand for se day,'when vour daught-ers are baith lying corpse. -My Bairnscorpse! I am certain they went to bedhale and fair last night. But I tell you,says the other, the dead hell has beenthrough warning the folk's to the burial:then the mother cries cut, O the villain :O the villain 1 that he did not send v'tword.— So they both ran, and the moth-er as soon as she entered the house, (liesto the bed, crying. O my bairns, my dearbairns ; on which the sluts rose up in aconsternation, to the great surprise of ti ebeholders, and the great mortification ofthe girls, who thought shame to set theirnoses out of doors, and to the gre;.t di¬version of the whole town.Leper and his master went to a gentle¬man’s house to work, where there wss *saucy house keeper, v'.bo had more ignor-ttjee and pride than good sense apd man¬ners ; she domineered cVer her fellow ser¬vants in a tyrannical manner. Leper re¬solved to mollify her pride ; so he findsan ant’s- nest, and takes their white eggs,grinds them to a powder, and put theminto the disii her supper sovvens was tebe put ifi. After she had taken her sap¬per, as.she was covering ibe table, the•413immock powder began to operate, aridshe let a great f— :—well done Margar¬et, says the Laird, your arse would takea cautioner. Before she got out of thechathber door she let fly another crack.;then she got* to order her fellow-servantto give the Laud his supper, but beforeshe could' give the necessary direction^she gave fire again, which set them all alaughing ; she runs into » room herself,and there ahe played away her one gunbattery so fast, that y«u would havethought she had been besieging the Ila-vminah. The Laird and Lady came tohear the fun, they were like to split theirHides at proud Maggy. So, next morn¬ing she Ittft her placw, to the grest set:*',faction of all her fellow-servant*.PART II.Leper’s landlady became very harsh tohis master, and very often abused himexceedingly sore with her tongue andhands, and always called upon him forUjore moory, a ;d to have aii the moneynin her keeping ; which Leper was sorrjAjr. It so happened on a day, that thetailor had got a hearty drubbing bothwith tongue and tongs, that he pouchedhis thimble and was going to make a.Queen of her: when she'saw that, shecried out, O ! will you leave a poor ten-% der dying woman. But Leper knowingthe cause of her ill nature better than hismaster did, advised him to take her on afine day, like a mile out of town, andgive her a wralk, and he would stay athome, and study a remedy for her disord-.er.—Away they both go; but as she wasalways complaining for want of health,and that she was very weak, she criedfrequently out, O ! ’tis a crying sin totake a woman in my condition out o’er adoor. During hei absence, I eper goesand searches the bed, and below the bol¬ster he gets a bottle of raie whisky, tffwhich he takes a hearty pull, and then jp-—in it to make it up ; gets a half¬penny worth of snuff’, and puts it in also,shakes ail together, arid so sets it in it’splace again.— Home they came, and shewas exceedingly distressed as a womancould ,lx\ and cried out it was a horrid*bing to take her out of t! e house. Th*15Jailor seeing her so bad, thought shewould have died, ran as fast as he couldfor a dram, but she in her hypocrisy pre¬tended she could not take it, and calledon him to help her to bed, into whichhe lays her; he was not well gone whenshe fell to her bottle, taking two or threehearty gluts, then she roars out murder,I’m poisoned, I’m poisoned. Bookingand purging began,# and the neighboursWere called in ; she leaves her blood up¬on poor Leper, and tells how such anJionest woman brought ae bottle as anoth¬er was done, and the murdering loon hadstolen it, and put in a bottle of poisoiiinstead of it. Leper took to his heels,but was pursued and carried before a jus¬tice of the peace, where he told all hehad done, which made the justice laughheartily at the joke ; and the tailor’s wifewas well purged from her feigned sit k*ness, laziness, and cursed ill-nature; foralways when she began to curl her nosefor the future, the tailor had no more tosay, but Maggy mind the bottle.Leper was working with a inaster-tail-o in Glasgow, who hungered his men ;and one morning, just when breakfastwes act on the table, in comes a gentle-oian to try on a suit o/clothes; the pons. |ier bein;^ obliged to rise, desired the luilsto say the grace themselves. Every one ■refused it, and put it to his neighbour,till Leper undertook it, and said with an iaudible voice, that the stranger gentle*man n ight overhear him, as follows:—* t'lch, hoch ! we are a parcel of poorbeastly bodies, and we are us beastlyminded ; if we do not work we get noth¬ing to eat; yet we are alwiys eating andalways freting; singing and half starving iIs like to be our fortune j scar'd tigs andscrapings are the most of our niouthfuls.We would fain thank thee for our fui* 4ness, it it were so, but the test of ourbenefactors are not worthy the acknow¬ledging ; hey. Amen.’ The gentle-1man laughed till Ids sides were like to f;burst, and gave Leper hall-a*crown to 1drink.Leper was no': long done with It is ar. iprenticesliip till he set urn for himself*and got a"journey men and an .apprentice, jwas coming into very good business, and -vhad he restrained his roguish tricks, he 1might have done v; ry wolb He and hislads being employed to work in a farmer’shouse where tbe heuse wife was a kc.. 417*3 miser, and not very cleanly hi makinga meat, an l sneevled through . nosegreatly when she spoke.—In the oiorn-riing, when she went to make the?:’ pot-r. l&ge, she made a fashion of washing the)ipot, which to appearance seemed to himtto hare been amongst the first that hadnheen made ; then she set it before theii£ire till she went to thfe well, in whichJitime Leper looking into it, sees 2 great-feole* stepped with clouts; he takes upMs goose, and holds it as high as Ins head,then lets it drop into the pot, whichilnocked out the bottom of it: presentlyrin comes the wife with the water, ands. pours it into the pot, which set the fire-wide all in a dam, for still as she pourednin, it ran out; the wife being short-sight-'ml, or what they call sand blin !, look';jm.ito the pot, holds up both her hands,:*.ul cries, “ Losh preserve me„ sirs, fortithe grip at ween the twa holes is broken.”'u'iryj Leper, the pot was old enough ; hutildo you not ken that teilor’s nettaco Ustikcavict- than other men's, indeed !*d|i believe it, but they say ye’re a ward ek ;1 in.’s Weduesd v all the world o’er, :.:iA afptsefi.’ Wednesday to ■rue iinked, my pe tinjight hae served me this tid y year, & s^eijjv.ad it e’en..pTh's\*porr tliverted Leper and his ladsthrough the day; and after supper, know¬ing he was to get some dirty bed, as thecows and people lived all in one apart¬ment, he chose rather to go home ; andknowing the moon was to rise a little af¬ter midnight, he sat by the fire, told them»mny a fine story to drive away the time,and bade the wife make the bed to seehow it might be : to save candle, shemade it in the dark, directly on the floorbehind where they sat, shaking down twobottles of straw ; a calf which chanced tobe lying on that place, and which thewife did not notice, was covered withthe straw, and the bed clothes spread o-ver it. The most of the family being inbed, the wife told them to go to bed also ;but Leper knowing of the calf, said Tilmake my beo come to me, on which thewife began to pray foi herself and all thatwas in the house ; soup begets his el-wand, and gives a stroke on the bed,which caused the brute to rise* and notseeing where to go, it fell u-erying andtinned round, which set the whole houses roarmg out murder in their ow n tongue-i. he good wife ran to the bed above th*goodman, and the whole family cried cut.19s-iot knowing what it was; but Leper andiihis two lads whipt off the blankets, anddthe brute ran in among the rest unper-sceived ; then Leper lighted a candle, andall ©f them, got out of bed, paid Leper’’for his work, and more if he pleased, and:-begged him to go away, and take the de-i^il with him. So home he went, but nev-ter was employed by that wife any more.Leper had a peal of the best customers>tboth in town and country; so one timeuhe had occasion to go to the parish ofi Inchinau, to make a wedding suit for angentleman, after they w'ere finished hetsdesired drink money for his lads, whichi the gentleman refused: Leper resolved>ito be even with him, so he goes to the/hay-loft, where the groom slept, and>' takes hi? stockings, breeches, and jacket,I sews them all together, and stuffs themil full of hay : makes a head, puts a rope a-II hout the neck, and hangs it on a tree op-j{ posite t© the laird’s window ; then goes.J to the laird aid tells him that his groom1 had hanged himself, apd that if he would• open his window he would see him hang-i i ig; the laird was struck with astdnish-i uienfc. and knew not Vvhat to do j Lepert advises him to bury him privately. Tn©so!aird said he had not a servant he couldirust, so hedged Leper to do it. Leperrefuses, tiii the laird promises him a lo^ulmeal then Leper pulls out all the kayout of the grooms clothes ; goes and getshk load of meal, and sends it to Glas¬gow,—then goes to the groom and says,Lsd, thy master is nantin^: thee. Sothe lad in oil haste inns to see what hismaster wanted, the laird no sooner sawkim open the door, than he cried out, a-void thee Satan, avoid thee Satan ! 1 halad says, what’s the matter? Did notyou hang yourself this morning ? Lordforbid! said the lad The laird says, ifthou be an earthly ere. Jure, take thattankard and drink ; which he did ; then*ays he to his master, Leper called meup; and said yen wanted me in all haste,fio. ho, said the laird, 1 bind out thestory n w, if - had Leper .! would nutmy swon! thro' hint ; but Leper beforef hat was gone n: Glasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads their’tunajy’s supper. Which obliged him toMay bom tiie kirk in the alu: noon, hehaving, neither wife nor servant maid*; soone. Sunday afterno&i as he was cookingf is pot, 'John Mucklecheek, and Janitsu21(TufFand blaw, Xtvo civiieers, luring mofe'aseal than knowledge, came upon him*nnd said,—What’s the matter, *lr, y*a3go not to the kirk ? Leper replied, 1(iirn reading my hook and cooking my pot,htvhiah 1 think is a work ol necessity.|The|i says the one to the other, don’trUuswer that graceless fellow, w«’ii makeiihim appear before his bettors; so theyirook the kail pot, and puts a staff through,(klie bool, rnd bears it to the Clerk’s'Chamber. Leper, »vho was never at avloss for inveuVion, goes to the Principallisf the College’s house, no body being atjpomc but a 1 iss roasting a leg of mutton jjiLeper says, my dear, will you g» andijbring ms a drink of ale, and I’ll turndthc spit till- you come back. 'Lhe less•was no sooner gone, than he runs a-*aywith the Teg of mutton, which.served hisKlads j nd him for their supper. Whenlithe Piipciplc came home, he was neither(to hand no; to bind he was so1 angry ; totlon Mon-d ij he-goes and makes complaintoto th.e Lord PiOvbst, v.lu sends two off¬icers for I.cpsr, who came immediately.SfMy Lord asked him how he dared to(take away the.Principal’s mutton ? Lcp-vr replied, ho w dared your cirileers comeI2<t*nd taks away tny kail pot ? I'm surethere is less in making a pot full of kail,than roasting a leg of mutton,, law mak*ers should not be law breakers, so I de¬mand justice on the civileers ? Ihe Pro¬vost asked him what justice he tvouldhave ? says he, make them carry the potback again ; and to the Principal, a legof mutton will hot make him and me fallout y so they were forced to carry thepot back again, and Leper caused theboys to huzza after them to their disgrace*There was a barber who always pla¬gued Leper, and called him prick-the-louse.—Leper resolved to be even withhim, so he goes and buys three sheep-head, and sends for the barber, and toldhim that there were three fine Southlandgentlemen just coma to^his hoKsq, whomuch wanted to be shaved, and he assur¬ed him he would receive sixpence foreuh one of them ;—this good news madethe barber send for a dram ;■—Xepcr wasstill praising them for quiet good natur-ed gentlemen. So Xeper takes him to;he bed where the sheep heads lay cover-ad, and desired him to awaken them forthey would not be angry, or say an illword to him ; the barber lifts the, caver-23ring and sees the sheep heads, runs cut[cursing and swearing, and Leper cryinglifter him, sheep head barker.1 he barber resolved to be revengedrna Leper, so when he was shaving Mesai’Obn, He tells him that Leper was the•druckenest fellow in the parish. So Mesatoohn warns him to the session; Leperfcoip.es and says, what do yo want withune, Sir, ? Come away Leper, say*Jpdess John,* I hoar a bad report of you ;IjMe, Sir, 1 am sure they were not myfriends that told you that.—Indeed, Inm informed you are a drunkard.—I aIlrunkard, you have not a soberer man infour parish j- Stop Sir, I will tell youaow J lead my life—in the morning Iake a choppin of ale and a hit of bread,hat I call my morning ; for breakfast 1generally take a herring and a choppin1>f ale, for I cannot sup brose like mya ads; the herring makes me dry, so atableven hours I take a jpint, and sometime*(bree cheppins ; at supper 1 take a bit of xiwesd and cheese and a pint and .so go toaaed. Mess John says, its extravagantits excessive drinking, 1 allow "you•‘’ he one half of it every da}*, for a quarterk * a year. Says Leper, I’ll try it, aad€4come bs(;k and tell you. At the end oftiie quarter he draws out his account*snd ooes to Mess John, who was sittingwith his elders in the Session-house, and*ays ; Sir, I have a demand on you ; ojame, Sir j Yes, on you, Sir; Don’t youremember you allowed me so much drinkf«r a quarter of a year, and I want themoney. Am I to pay your reckoning,Sir? You allowed it, and if you won’tpay it I’ll lake you before the Piovost.1 Welders adviced him to pay ;t or hewould he affronted j so Zeper got theMsoney. When he was at the door, he•ays. Sir, will you stand another quarter;Get away, says Mess John, and don’ttrouble me. Zeper says, I am sure younaay, for 1 am always twopence to yourpanny.THE END.