HISTORYsO RT U N AT US,SETTING FORTHjis Birth, Life, Travels, and Adventures in: parts of the World. How the LadyFortune appeared to him, and gave hima rich Purse that never wanted Money jSand alfo (in his Travels) how he got fromthe Soldan a wifhing Hat, that by puttingit on his Head, he could convey himfelfimmediately into whatever Place he de-fired.aw Fortunatus on his Death-bed, declaredto his two fons, Ampedo and Andolocia,the virtue of his Purs'e and Hat.The Lady Fortune gave fuch a Purfe in Sj>ain,IVhen it tvas empty, Jlraight ’twas full again.G L A S G O AV,TED BY J ANDM. ROBERTSON,\O FWith an AccountM D C C X C ! X.HISTORYO FJFORTUNATUS^ \CHAP I.Of the Birth of FORTUNATOS.IN the famous ifle of Cyprus, there isa (lately city, caHed Famagofta, whereonce lived a wealthy noble citizen nam-;ed Theodorus, who was left by his de¬lations in great riches: He being leftyoung by his parents, addi<fled himfelfto all manner of pleafures and pallime,often frequenting princes’ courts, wherehe loon (pent great part of his wealth inriotous living, to the grief of his friends 1and relations, who thinking to make :him leave thefe courfes, determined tonmarry him to a noble and rich citizen’sdaughter named Gratiana, and by con-1-jtnt of both parties he was married toher j and in a fumptuous manner thewedding was kept with greart feafting.Theodorus taking his fpoufe home, Hv-1 liU! 1113 1 U   —: ed with her very virtuoufly for a time,; to the content of both their relations.In a year after th'a marriage,Gratianai was brought to bed of a fon, who was; chriftenedFortunatus. Theodoras, in alittle time, began to follow his formerjbad courfes, infomuch, that he began: to fell and mortgage moft part of hisland, till at laft he wafted all his eftate,jib he fell into fuchextreme poverty thatthey were not able to keep any fervants,iGratiana being forced to drefs her ownri: meat and wafh her clothes herfeif. The¬odoras and his wife, fitting at a poori dinner, and the father beholding his(Sjfon, could hardly-refrain from weeping;>5\vhich when his fon perceived, beingThen eighteen years old, and was expertl|in hunting, hawking, and playing on{ the lute, which was his chief paftime,the fpoke to his father and faid, Dearrfather, what aileth you ? tor I obferve,Tthat when you behold me, you feem:/|fad: Sir, have I any ways offended you.. jHis father anfwered, Dear ion, thou art: ' not the caule of my grief, but myfelfiis the caufe of my pinching poverty Isriiani brought to, when i call to mind the, i jgreat wealth and honour I lately enjoys1 I'.J! L l Ui-r-r-rr—rKJ Xed, and when I confider how unable I |am to fuccour thee, my only child, this |it is that vexethme day andmight, and |thole familiars that I fpent my goods Ion, now flight me, and refrain my com¬pany. To this Fortunatus anfwered,beloved father, do not take fuch im¬moderate care for me, I am young andflrong, I will travel into far countriesand try my fortune; I hope in God, Ifhal! be preferred: I have not been fobadly brought up, but I can fliift formyfeif. Upon this, Fortunadis wentfrom his father’s houfe with a hawk onbis fill, travelling towards the fea-flde,pondering with himfelf, that being ab-fent from his father’s fight, he mightnot be grieved thereby ; and as hewalked by the fea-fide, he efpied a gal- |ley of Venice, wherein was an Earl of |Flanders, who had lofl two of his men,wilhing within himfelf that he couldbe entertained in the Earl’s fervice, Ithat he might be rid of the country ofCyprus; with that he ftept forth, andmaking a low obedience to the Earl,he faid, I underfland rnofl noble Lord,you have lofl: two of your men, there¬fore I defire (if you pleafe) to be ea- .FORT U N A T U S, _ 5tertained in your fervicc. Thou I ike Itme well, anfwered the Earl ; whatj wages fliall I give thee? Fortuuatusi laid, I dehre no wages, but to be re~!| warded according to my deferts. Tliefe: words pie a fed the Earl, they foon a-greed, and fo failed to Venice.C II A P.If.I low Fortunatns failed azvay zvith t}jeEarl^ •without the knozvlrdge of hisFather and Mother.§pIIE Earl was now returned home,and joyfully received of his fub-edts, for he was very afthble, juft andirtuous, and the other of his neigh-ours welcomed him home. Prefentlydjafter his return, he married the dukelof Cleve’s daughter, who was a fair andibeauteous lady ; Fortunatus having(iioought for the wedding, at Veiyice, fe-iweral coftly jewels, garments of velvetilk, and cloth of gold. To the weddingmeforted many lords of great eftates,with many valiant knights and gentle*r nen, mounted on ftateiy horfes, to tilt:nd tourney before the noble ladieshere prelent; and as there was no final!6 THE HISTORY OFnumber of proper and comely gen¬tlemen to attend at the wedding, yetwas none fo recommended for theirbehaviour fe*> Fortunatus. After thenobles had finifhed their triumphsand jovial games, the duke of Cleves,the bride and bridegroom agreedto let their fervants try their man¬hood at feveral paflimes, for two richjewels, eflimated at a hundred crowns*and he that obtained the prize Ihould!have-them, which made all the fervantsglad, every one driving to do his bed*fo that the duke of Burgundy’s fervant;won one, and Fortunatus the other,which difpleafed the other fervants:upon this they de&red the Duke’s fer¬vant to challenge Fortunatus to fighthim before all the ladies, whom ihould.have both, which challenge was foonaccepted of by Fortunatus ; and comingto the tilt-yard, they encountered eachother very brifkly, till at lad Fortunatusliosfled the duke’s fervant ofFhis horfe,at his fpear’s length, whereupon he wonthe victory and obtained the jewels,which encreafed the envy of the otherfervants, but rejoiced the Ear). Amongtli'v Earl’s iervan^, there was a crafty F 0 R TUNA 'i' U 8. -7  I i-ld fellow, who confulted with the reftf the fervants, and agreed with thembr ten crowns, that he would loon, :iake Fortunatus depart of his own sc¬or'd, and leave his lord, which fumrfiey foon paid him down, to accom-i liih which he foon inftnuates himfelfinto Fortunatus’s company, pretendingfim great friendlhip, treating himjjigidy at fevcral great feafts of womennd wine, alio much praifing his riches,iiobihty of birth, and valiant Courage,: ind alw’avs paying the (hot for Fortu-natus, ’till at laft he began to infmuatetat he would reveal a lecret to him ;at his lord having conceived a greatJfaiouiy of his chamberlains (of whomnortunatus was one) he had a defignccretly to have them gelded, whichijjrhen Fortunatus heard, he was much1 ruck and arcazed, and therefore de-i'Sres this old fellow (Robert) to tell himt|Ow he might convey himfelf awayifith fpeed out of the city undifcover-:p: Robert was glad to hear of this,md anfwered, you know that the gates1 if the city are (hut, and there is no go¬ng out ’till morning. Then faid For-lunatus, I had rather wander as a va-ml I, ill 1 U 1 u U I U ||gabond, than to be fo ferved. Themlaid Robert, I am ferry that I told the'of thefe things, fince I Ihall now lofithy good company. Fortunatus defirecRobert by all means to conceal his de¬parture, and then being in much trou¬ble of mind, he at break of day depart¬ed, taking his journey on horfebackwith hounds following him, little mif-trufting Robert’s treachery. WherFortunatus had rode ten miles, hebought him another, and fent homeSthe Earl’s horfe, with the hounds, thatllie fhould have no occafion to purfuelhim. But when the Earl underfloodthat Fortuhatus was departed withouthis leave, not knowing the caufe, hewas offended, and fo demanded of hisServants whether they knew any occalion, which they all denied: then hewent to the ladies and gentlewomenand enquired of them if they knew anyoccafion ol his departure, which theydud they did not. Then laid the Earl*rho’ the caufe of his departure is con-c;aled fiom me, yet 1 know that For¬tunatus is not fled withom lome caufe,for which 1 Ihall iharply be revenged• ! were the caufe thereof.F O R T U N A T U S. fi *When Roberc underftood that hislord was thus grieved for the departureof Fortunatus, he was in fear left heIfhould be di(covered by fome of the o-ither fervants. iNow leave we th£ Earl of Flanders,i who knew not how Robert had deceiv¬ed him concerning Fortunatus, andfollow our young hero in his travels' '.nto France, England, and other partstSbf the world,1C H A P. III.y the Travels of Fortunatus, after heIU had left the Earl his Majler.j ,'Ortunatus having fent back his[_1 matter’s horfe, travelled with all-Dtpeed to Calais, where he took (hipping,i|hinking himfelf hardly fafe when inhe mid ft of the (ea, till he at laft ar-ived in England, where, coming to(|,ondon (that great populous city) helaft met with fbm-e Cyprus mer-hants, his own countrymen, who not-mfly (pent their money in gaining andbenching, fo that in half a year’s time:i hey wafted all their money. Fortuna-10 THE HISTORY OFtus having lei his fpring was fooncfl. dry; the reft had foent moft of theirson banquets and fair women. Fontu-natus being now moneylefs, went tofome of his landladies vyhere he liadfpent his money, to borrow threecro ns, laying, that he would go in¬to Flanders and fetch f air hundredcrowns, that was there in his uncle’sihand; but he was flighted, and theywould lend him none: he deflred one*of his miffes to truft him one quart ofwine, but fhe denied him, and bid herfervants fetch a pint of fmall beer, to;make the afs drink ere he went. For-tunatus took himfelf out of England,,croflkl the Teas, and arrived in Piccar-dy in France. In travelling he palledthrough a wood, where he fpent the:whole day, and being benighted, hefaw an old houfe, where he hoped tofind fome relief, but there w;rj no:creature in it- He fpent the next dayin travelling from one wood to another,,Ealmofl ftarved with hunger, and littingidown by a fountain, (the moon fliin-Ling clear) he heard a great noife in thfi|iwood, as the grunting of bears, which.imade hum convey himfelf away*, and,FOR TUN AT US. iti get up into a tree near the fountain;ij the wild beads having xlrank, one ofI them finding Fortunatus climbed up!i the tree after him, where he was foresi! afraid; when he came near to him,i Fortunatus drew .his fword and {truckSthe bear, that he fell from the tree,and thruft his fword through him, and11 then laying his mouth to the wound,'fucked out his blood, and a little re-ilfrefhed himfelf, and then laid himtown and llept by the bear until morn-lloiv the Lady Fort une gave Fortunatusa purfe that never wanted money,BU F as foon as Fortunatus awoke, hefaw {landing before him a fair andbeauteous Lady muffled over the eyes jwhereupon he laid, I befeech thee fweetvirgin, for the love of God, to aflift me,that l may come out ol this wood, fordjthefe three days have l travelled with¬out meat: then demanded (he of himiwhat countryman he was, he anfweredI am of the ille of Cyprus, and poverty;hath conltrained me to wander to feek:my fortune. She laid, fear not Fortu-»ngCHAP. IV.12 THE HISTORY OFnates, I am the Goddefs Fortune, andby the influence of the heavens andOars, are given me fix powers, of whichI beftow on thee one or more accordingto divine permiflion, they are Wifdom,Riches? Strength, Health, Beauty andlong Life, chufe one of thefe quickly,Fortunatus made no longer ftay, butfaid, then 1 defire Riches and Plenty,that i may never want fo long as I live;with that ihe gave him a Purfe, andlaid, Receive this fame of me, and inwhat country thou art in, as often asthou ihalt put thy hand therein, thou{halt draw forth ten pieces of gold ofthe fame nation's coin; and this purfe{hall retain its virtue as long as thouHveft, and thy own children or any o-thers, during their life, therefore e-fteem it accordingly, and take fpecialcare thereof.Fortunatus returned hermany thanksfor her kmduefs to him: She faid to himreturn thanks to the giver of all goodgifts, and of thy riches beftow it on thepoor and needy. Then faid Fortuna- ,,tus, this 1 will willingly perform to theutmolt of my power. Then ihe bid himfollow her, and Ihe conveyed him outIFORTU N ATUS. 13bf the wood, when he efpied an inn,; where men ufually refreih themfelves,then rt'ie vaniihed ont of his fight: but::jbefore he entered the inn, he tried therburfe, and drev/ forth ten crowns,i jwliereof he was glad, and joyfully re-sgaled himfelf in the inn, and called fori meat, and faid he would content them: for it, for he was hungry ; fo his holtbon furnilhed his table.Now whenFortunatus had fufficient-y ftaid his hunger and third, and reft-lijed himfelf fome days, he difcharged:|iis hod to the full contentment, and-departed.C II A. P. V.iiHozv Fortunatus buying fever cl greathorfes, which an Earl before bad priz¬ed, was taken prifoner, and jlribilyexamined concerning the purfe,inn WO miles from this wood, was a1 JL little town and a caltle, wherevdwelt an Earl that owned the wood:flFortunatus took up his lodging in thebed inn, and atked the hod, if he couldwifh him to fome good horfes, of whichmhe Earl had choien three, and offeredfj30o crowns for them, but it was re-, rH TH*E HISTORY OFfufed Fortunatus went into his cham¬ber took out of hife purfe 600crowns, and bid his hod; fend for themerchant to bring his horfes to him.The hofl fuppofed he had been in jeft,feeing him id meanly apparelled: Atlength he brought him to the merchant,and liking the hories, he bought twoof thofe the Earl had cheapened, andgave 300 crowns for them; he bought'Coftlv faddles and other furniture forjthem, and defired his hoft to get himtwo fervants: the Earl hearing thatFortunatus had bought the horfes outot his hand, was very angry, and fentto the inn-keeper, to know who thiswas that had bought the horfes out ofhis hand; and being informed he wasa ftrangerand no gentleman, command¬ed his men to lay hold on him, ikyingthat he had committed iome robbery,or murdered fbme men, i'o he was leizr*ed and cafl into prifon. Afterwardsthe Earl lent for Fortunatus out of pri¬fon, and examined him who he was;he anfwered, that he was born in Cy¬prus, and was the fon of a poor gen¬tleman. Then the Earl allied him howhe got fo much money; he told himFORTU M i*tliat he came by it honefUy. The Earltold him, that if he would not tell himhe would put him to the rack. Fortij-natiis determined to chufe rather to diethan reveal the virtues of his purfe,—•Upon this he was put to the rack, whenthey again demanded how he came byfo many fair crowns. He faid, afterthat I wandered three days in yonderwood, l found a purfe with fix hun¬dred crowns in it. Then faid the Earl,thou vagabond, the money is mine, andthy body and goods forfeit. GraciousLord, anfwered he, l wift not that itwas your jurifdidtion. Then faid theEarl, this lhall not excufe thee; for to¬day I will take from thee thy goods,and to-morrow thy life.Then Fortunatus complained tohinafelf that he had not made choiceof Wifdom before Riches,Now Fortunatus humbly begged hislife of the Earl, and was willing to lofeall his goods ; the Earl being moved tofave his life, at the intreaty of fome of:kis men, delivered him his purfe withthe crowns in it, and charged him ne-|ver more to come into his junfdiftion.s6 THE HISTOU Y O FForrunatus rejoiced that he had fo wellefcaped, and was not bereft of his pre¬cious Purfe. After this he travelled to¬wards his own country, having boughtfeveral horfes and rich apparel, andfeveral fervants to attend him; he ar-rived-at Famagofla, where it was toldhim that his father and mother weredead. He foon purchafed his father’shoufe, pulled it down, and built a moft{lately palace, after the bed mannerhe had feen in his travels. He alfobuilt a fiimptuous Church, and twelvehoufes for twelve priefts to fay divinefervice in. He caufrd three {latelytombs to be made, one for his father,another for his mother; then he caufedtheir bones to be taken up and placedtherein: the other he preferved forhimfeif and his heirs. After this he' propofed to take him a wife.CHAP. Vf.Ho’w Fortundties married the Lord Nc-mains youngejl daughter."^vTOT far from Famagofla lived a lord_ who had three daughters that wereexcellent beauties, and the king of Cy-1r li R i U N t\ I U S. 17prus intended to bellow one of themon Fomuiatus, and having caufed themto be richly attired, he gave him leaveto take his choice: when Fortunatilshad afked each of them a queftion, hemade choice of the youngeft, to thegreat grief of the other two fibers : theCoiintefs and Earl liked well of thematch; only they objected again!! himthat he had no lands, which Fortuna-tus underllanding, knowing the Earl ofLigron had a confiderable eitare, anda cafile and feverai lordlhips to difpofeof, being much indebted: Fortunatusbought them of the Earl for ten thou-fand ducats, and paid down the money,lihn he jointured CafTandra that wasto be his wife in the fame.Fortunatus alfb prefenred the Coun-tefs her mother with feverai rich jewels,to a great value, and alfo to her fillers,to their great content.Then 'did the king proffer to keep thewedding of Fortunatus, and Caflandrajhis bride, in his own court; but For¬tunatus defired to keep it at his ownnew palace, humbly beleeching the kingland queen to honour him with theirprefence at his wedding. Then ajnfwer-78 THK HISTORY OF fed the king, I will come with my queen,being thy father and mother-in-law, ,and my nobles and all our relations.Fortunatus wa** glad, and thanked theking, ^.fter four days came the king,nobles and afi:endants, to Fortunatus’shoule, where they were entertained withpleafant mufic, and many delightfulihows, in a triumphant manner, andhis houfe was adorned with collly fur¬niture, glorious to behold. Thus con¬tinued they all day feafling, banquet-ing, and dancing, afteramoft 1'un pru-ous manner, until night; when Fortu-natus and his bride were breught totheir chamber This fealling and ban¬queting continued forty days. • henthe king returned to his court, highlyfatisfied with his entertainment. Afterthis, Fortunams made another greatfead tor all the citizens, their wives,and children.CHAP. VII. IHgvj Foriunctus had by his Wife tivoCzcns¥NOW Fortunatusand CafFandra liv¬ed in a joyful and happy edate.FORTUNATUS. 19:! found no lake of -any thing but chil-:dren, for he knew that the virtue ofihis purfe would fail after his death, if!he had no lawful heirs of his body ;iithey prayed daily to God to make themr! fruitful, infomuch that the Lord heard11 their prayer, and lent them a fdn, whichiwas chriftened Ampedo: fhortly after,: fhe conceived again, and brought forthi(another fon, whom they named An-; dolocia. Thus was Fortunatus very< joyful that he had two fair fons, whom.{he caufed to be carefully brought up,: in aH accomplifhments fit for gentle-nimen of quality. Fortunatus havinghilived twelve years with his wife Caf-ifandra, defigned again to travel; whichiihis wife much oppofed, defiring by allijjthe love he bore to her and her fons,cjnot to leave them: but he being fully:!refolved to travel, appeafed her, pro-iTtifing that he would not (lay longfrom her, and then woiild abide withner during life She (aid to him, praynaflen your return, and l (hall pray~or your fafety night and day. Soon3lifter he took his leave of his wife andchildren, defiring God to biefs them::ie departed in a fhip of his own, and20 T H E H I S T 0 R Y OFfailed to Alexandria, where he broughtfuch gifts to the Soldan that gainedhmt much favour, and received his,letter for his fafe travelling through alLhis dominions, where he trafficked, andbought many rich goods and jewels,.„ \ ' jC H A P. VIII.Hotv For tuna! us gave rich prefents tothe Soldan and his fervants; and howhe got his Wi/Jjing- Hat.■_I^Oi tunatus was fumptuoufly treat¬ed by the Soldan, and aiter fupperhe dehred licence to beftow his gifts ontheSoldan’s fervants, which was grant¬ed ; then opened he his purfe under thetable, and gave rich gifts to all of them,according to their degree, info muchthat the Soldan marvelled ; and beinghighly pleafrd, he told Fcrtunatus,that for his kindnefs he would fhewhim fucli rarities, that he never fawthe like; then brought him to a towermade of marble (lone, in the firft roomwas fever al rich veffels and jewels, withgreat heaps of fiver coined ; in the fe-cond room, he ihewed fever al velfels ofgold, and many chefs lull of gold:0m," lj U R 1 U oJ A l L 21with a wardrobe full of many;oflly garments, beautified with manyirecKjus ftones, and fome rich goldenl candle dicks, fee v^ith carbuncles whichi'jhone fo in the night, that they gaveight all over the room : Fortunatusildmiring all thefe great riches and in-inite trealures, praifed them greatly ;::hen faid the Soldan, 1 have one jewelliiore, that 1 efteem above all thefe.!'| Then he brought him into his bed-|hamber, v/hich was richly adorned;hen he took in his hand a fmall feltat, fimple to behold, faying, I fetmorey this hat, than by all the preciouswels I poffefs; fuch a hat is not toe had. Then faid Fortunatus, I would■jiiadly know what power and virtue.onfifls in it; then anfwered the Sol-mn, it hath this virtue, that he whomth it on his head, where he williesulmfelf to be, he is with a thought con-’cyed thither; fo that with it I takegeafure, more than in all my jewels.:«en thought Fortunatus, how we.llKill this hat agree with my purfe? foltd he to the king, lince this hat hathIch virtue, furely it mud be very hea-on, his head that weareth it; then  iHk H 1 k 1 uin utfaid the Soldan, it is no heavier than,another hat; whereupon he gave it in¬to his hands, and bid him put it on hishead, afldng him if he felt otherwife:iFormnatus did not think it had beenfo light, nor fappofed he would have:fet it upon his head ; with that he fud-denly wiflied himfelf in his fhip (whichwas then under fail; to return into hisown country ; the Soldan looking outat his window, and feeing the Ihip un¬der fail, was extremely angry, andcommanded his men to bring himback; threatening it they did not takehim, to put them to death; but all invain, Fortunatus was too quick for themand arrived fafe in his own country,with his Hi ip laden with rich goods.He was now joyfully received of hiswife and two tons, and the citizens ofFamagoila. Fortunatus having travel¬led over moft^part of the world, want¬ing nothing of worldly riches that hisiheart could with, he began to confiderthe advancement of his children.He then maintained a princely court,, 1providing mailers and learned men toiinftrudt his children in all manner ofi :learning and feats of chivalry, whereol:1 V U R i U W A i U Sl. 23the youngeft was molt iaclined to be¬have hitnfeif manfully, which caufedFortunatus to be how many jewels forjoufting atFamagofta, where his young-:efl; fon won the victory. Fortunatusrejoiced, paffi* ** his days in great plea-iifure and paftime with th. hat, and•with hawking virh his fou Andplociaiand his wife GalFandra. When he hadfor manv years e .joyed all earthly plea¬sures, fair CatFindra wras fum nonediby a grievous hcknefs to her grave,•which fo inwardly grieved f uturucus,that he languiihed with a dead'v con-fifumption, which put tn.n m inind toprepare for his dee<th.CHAR IX.'iHo'W Fortunatus, on his D' >th-hei. <le~dared to his Sons the Value of hisPurfe and Hat.IFORTUNATUS, perceiving deafhapproach, fent for his two tons,jAmpedoand Andolocia, laying to themIlMy dear children, God hath taken a-itway your dear mother, that carefullybrought you up, and I alfo perceive-ideath approaching, and near at hand,24 The H I S T O R Y oi\ ike.therefore I will lliewyou how you maycontinue in honour and wealth, as Ihave done to my dying day. He de¬clared to them the virtue of his purfe,and how it would lall? no longer than ,both their lives: he alfo told them tiievirtue of the widiing hat; command¬ed them not to part with thole jewels,but to keep them in common, and livefriendly together; and that they Ihouldnot make any perfon privy to the vir- jtue of the purfe, were they ever fobeloved of them. I have, faith he,concealed the virtue of it thefe fortyyears, and never revealed it to any,;»fave you. When having faid this, andgiven them feveral wholefome inftruc-tions, he ceafed fpeaking, and gave |up the gholt. His fons buried himhonourably in the church chat he built,in a ftatcly tomb.finis;