THEENGLISH LADY’SCOMPLETECATECHISM.SETTING FORTHThe Pride and Vanity of theENGLISH QUALITY, in re¬lieving Foreigners before their own,Country-Folks.Stirling, Printed in this Prefent Year*( * )THEENGLISH LADY’SCOMPLETECATECHISM.Queft. ^L7~OU fay, Madam, you wasJ[ brought up in the. Chriftianreligion : Pr&y of what nation arc you ?A. I am an Englifh Lady by birth.Pfav what is your name ?A. VANITY. 'Who gave you this name ?A. Every body.CL Who were your godfathers and-godmothers ?A. The Mercer, Laccman, Semflrefs,and Milliner.Who confirm’d you ?•A. Madamoifelle, the French mantua-maker.WhatTHE ENGLISH L'ADy’s, Ssff. ^What is yciu*.fcrm of devotion ?A. Six yards extraordinary furbeflow’d up to the pockets, and threeguineas for making.Why will you give a French wo*man three guineas, when an Fnglifliwoman would do it for one, as well, ifnot better ?A. Only for the name of having itmade by a French woman, that whenI am afked by another Lady of quality.Who made my mantua ? I may fay, ina French tone, Madamoifelle the Frenchmantua-maker.Q. How was you educate ?A. At a French boarding-fchoohAfter what manner ?A. By the help of a French dancing-mafter, a French finging-mafter, and ^French waiting-woman.Let me hear you proceed ?A. Before I could fpeak Englifh, I wastaught to jabber French : In ihort, Idanced French dances at eight, fungFrench fongs at eleven, and before Iwas fifteen, could talk nothing elfe butFrench.Let me hear you go on till youcome to twentyA. At4 THE ENGLISH LADy’sA. At fixteen I began to think of aman ; at feventeen I loved a man ; ateighteen I figh’d for a man ; at nine¬teen I fent for a man ; and at twenty Iran away with a man.How do you employ your timenow ?A. I ly in bed till noon, drefs all theafternoon, dine in the evening, and playat cards till midnight.How do you fpend the Sabbath ?A. In chit-chat.What do you talk of ?A. New fafhions and new plays.How often do you go to church ?A. Twice a year, or oftener, as myhufband gives me new clothes.Why do you go to church whenyou have new clothes ?A. To be admired by the men, tofee other folks finery, aild to fhow myown; and to laugh at thofe feurvy outof fafhion creatures who come therefor devotion.Pray, Madam, what books do youread ?A. I read Plays and Romances.Q What fort of people do you con¬verts with ?A. ThofeCOMPLETE CATECHISM. jA. Thofe like myfelf, who makepride and pleafure their devotion : newfafhions their daily prayers, laugh atall below them, and deny thofe abovethem.(X What is it you love ?A. Myfelf.Ch What! no body dfe ?A. Yes; my Monkey, my Lap-dog,and my Page.(X Why do you love them ?A. Why, becaufe 1 am an EnglifhLady, and they are foreign creatures,my Monkey from the Ealt Indies, myPage from Genoa, and my Lap-dogfrom Vigo.Would they not have pleafedyou as well if they had been Eng¬lifh ?A. No; I hate every thing that OldEngland brings forth, except it be thetemper of an Engliih hufband, and theliberty of an Englifh wife, I love Frenchbread, French wines, French fauces,and French cooks ; in fhort, I have allabout me either French or Foreign,from my waiting-maid to my parrot,©nly my fteward.Q: Why6THB ENGLISH LADY’SQ. Why would you have your Rew¬ard Knglilh, and all the reft of yourfervants Foreigners ?A. Becaufe 1 would be cheated inmy own language ; I would have myfootman a Frenchman, my butler anItalian, my porter a Dutchman, andmy coachman a Spaniard ; then fur myfurniture, I would have nothing Eng-lilli from my bed to my chamber-pot,and was I forced to eat Englilh provi-fions, they fhould come from Cornwall,Berwick upon Tweed, or fome otherremote place.How do you beftow your cha¬rity ?A. On fupeiannuated Ladies, and theFrench Whores, whole pride and va¬nity have brought them to poverty;and yet retain fo much of the Frenchmodes, that to the iaft you may feethem in an old tattered fdk gown, highhead, and draggled tail, a pair of lacedfhoes, an old furbelow’d * fcarf, andnever a fmocjr on : and thefe they willhave, if they dine on fcraps for a fort-Aight.What do the poor get at yourCOMPLETE CATECHISM. )A. Nothing.How do you anfwer them ?A. In thefe dilates of charity, Theymuft go to their own parifhes j andiometimes they give me the trouble tofend for the beadle to carry them hi-■ thcr.Then, Madam, lince you are foreligious and charitable, how do youcarry yourfelf towards your neigh¬bours ?A. Sir, I fcorn my poor neighbours,and backbite the rich.——The rich IinVitc to dinner becaufe they do notwant it, and I deny the poor becaufe{ they do.How do you goverja your fa¬mily ?A. As other Ladies do. I love game-ing, and therefore tolerate it amongmy Servants, for the fame reafon Ileave them to their own licentious ap¬petites, to fwear, curfe, riot, drink,and do what they pleafe. I give thema great deal of liberty and little wages.And it my he ward happens to get myho'ufe-keeper- with child, I make mycoachman marry her; turn away myfootman for afpiring to my maid, andi, her8 THE ENGLISH LADy’s, &C.her I marry to my Lord’s chamberlain*and gives her fix changes of my oldclothes for her dowry ; and fometimesI fancy the butler, becaufe he is hand-fomer than my own hufband.How often do you call your fa¬mily to prayers ?A. I never call my family to pray¬ers, but I fend them to church fome-times ; and that is, when i am aboutto cuckold my hufband at home, thatI may do it in private ; and my fer-vants are glad of the opportunity. Butif they never go near the church, lampleafed with any excufe, and don’t carewhere they go.Pray how do you pay your debts ?A. Some with money, and ibmewith fair promifes. I feldom pay anybody’s bills, but I run more m theirdebt. I-give poor tradefmen ill words,and the rich I treat civily, in hopes toget farther into their debt.FINIS.