Good News to Scotland.: • aIf ’ i' • , ji <jSERMON,Preached in the Parifti of Carluke in Clydef*dale, upon the 8th day of July, 1680, ? , \ v|| ' . . ' ••■v-:-' :Si'f .:tBy that faithful Minifter and Martyr ofJESUS CHRIST’ ^Mr. RICHARD CAMERON.Ifaiah xlix 24. Shall the Prey be taken frorat^ e mighty, or the lawful captive delivered?* To which are added,! An AC R OS II C upon HIS NAME.AISO!i A Ihort RELATION concerning the Rever¬end Mr. K\< HARD 1 AMERON’S Calto the Miniftry of the Gofpel.STIRLING:Printed and Sued by C. Randall*'ANACROSTICUnon the name of tint ?cdly, faithful and z;alcusM iiifter and Martyr of JE JS CH1RIST,Mr. Ruhard Cameron.Done by a true lover of his M“rmry, and O.vrerof t^e honourable Caufe vhich he fealed withhi? Blood.M OS T noble Cameron of renown,A fame of thee fhall ne’er go down ;S ince Truth with zeal thou didft purfue,J" o Zion’s King loyal and true *E v’n when the dragon fpu’d his flood,R efift thou didft unto the blood jR an fwiftty in thy Chriflian race,L n faith and patience to that place,C hrift did prepare for fuch as thee,II e knew would not. his ftandard flee,A pattern of valour and zeal,R ather to fuffer than to fail.;D idft ihew thyfelf with might and main,C ounting drofs what others thought gain :A faithful witnefs ’gainft all, thofeM en of all forts did truth oppofe :E v’n thou with Mofes did efteoniR eproaches for the God of heaven ;O n him alone thou didft rely,N ot fparing for his caufe to die!Willja?4 Wilson,TORFOOr in Rvj/iJa'e-7Fanfli, A/cv, zgth 17^ j-AtSEE. M OPreached in the Paridv of Carluke, in Clydef-dale, upon the 8ih day of July, 168b.| Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or theWE claim a fpecial intereft in this placeof Scripture ; and many other places1 alfo, look to the firlt verfe of this chapter*: ‘ Liften O ides, and hearken ye people fromI* far;’ it appears as if it had been fpokentoBritain :—the Lord is crying to us this day toIs (ten unto him.—You will fay what is the:Xord faying ? What wordd the Lord fay tous ?  —AVe cannot take time to fpeakIto all that is in the chapter, and make ap-Ifdication of it; but look to the i^tn verfe*‘ Sing O heaven, and be joyful O earth:' for the Lord hath comforted his people,f and will have mercy upon his afflicted.’—* this Scmon wa* iraonj HU lift Labours, biinj* preachedprrteen ■ia'/ibffsre he tofiV-cd ivlavtyrdom p.t A.i s- or*—The•cope c{ the Scjmon is, a (criptriral frcdiiStion of t c terri|)leuilg< meuts that arc coming upor Zinn’s Encuries, and the gre*.tap glorious Deliverance .hat is coipingtp theB*je of Gcd, in Eritain SH^ljelapd.Isaiah x;lix, 24.lawful' captive delivered/He is crying to us to fmg, ‘ Sing O hea¬vens,J that is, fmg O church; fing O earth,that is, fing O ftate; fing both church andftate of Scotland ; O how ihoyld we fing ?hath not the Lord forfaken and forgoiten'3 ?-r-Nay, nay, though it appears fb, yetw is not fo realty; the purpofe of God isgreat with child this day, to bring forth agreat delivtranee to the church and ftate ofScotland. If we faw the days that our ordis to beftow upon us : if ue had a fight oftTi£> rvMnjftpre tVnr ttnll K^> Cthe minifters that (hall be in Scotland, thatthe Lord is4:o give this land, i,t would makens fing. Ye thmk now.that the miniiters aregone, and indeed it is fo in a great part, andthe magittrates are rjefted by us; we de¬clare befoie fun an ditars that it is fo. butour Lord is to give ruiers; he whll makeout that promi e, yer 2 y 4 And kings fhall4 be thy nurfinw fathers, and their queens thy‘ nurfing mothers.’ So I fay, if we faw thegcoci days that are coming upon the backof thefe troubles.,we cculd not.get men andwomen keeped from fmging and dancing |for joy, we w'ould all gd home w th glad- ;nets am. rejoicing ; yea. diftradted as it were ffor joy: but.you may fay, O how (hall this |be! for therejire two things to be objected Iagairdt this: |• Firft, The paucity of them who have keej:-!:ed ftraight, but ere long that fhaii be madetout. yer. 20. ‘ The children which thou (halti tyave, after thou haft loft the other, (haft- .,5* fay. The pi ce is too for me, give‘ place to me that i may dwell:* withverfe 21. Then fhait thou fay in thine heart,4 Who hath begotten me thefe ? Behold 14 was left alone, thefe, where^had they been ?f Indeed it is true, the Lord is coming to: make this land defolate, and ere long therewill not be many men, women or children1 in it; and the remnant that he wilt leave in it1 will be a poor affli&ed people, and that fmalli company and remnant w'ill leaven the whole; company and number, fo that the number; of the Prefbyterians, of thofe who adhere tothofe who are defpifed and perfecuted in| Scotland, (hall not get room to dwell in Scot¬land : and the veafon will be, becaufe all thenations about wall come, as it were, to take|a copy of the pattern of the dodrine, wor-fhip, difeipline and government of the churchof Scotland. Now you may fay, how canthat be ? You have the word of God for itill’ll tell you, this word hath not been madetout very much to any church, the rather itifeems to have refped to Britain, and Soct-Jand efpecially, 4 Liften, O ifles, unto me.2. Now there is a fecund objedion againftit, which is this, the ftrength and power ofimemies. Come away with that, make lan¬guage of your cafe, or of the church’s cafe ;what would ye fay of it ? You will fay, it,s fo fad that vou cannot tell what to fav ofand hearken yc people from far.*6'ke chytehfs. cafe, and wheiteydflr go-' to Codyou are tongue taked and cannox get ii ex*p,re [fed. Ihexe Js-a queftion propounded bythe Lord Htnfelf, aadiit is jufl our langu-ago; at leaf-, the language of fuch as wouldprefer Jerufalem' to the world, and it is this,i. oha'i- the prey he taken from the.mighty,* or the lawful captive ba- delivered?—Is.not tliis our cafe ?—In few wards, we are a.prey, and. thofe that have us fen a prey arertiighty, and we are captives; and if you,p’tafe to take lawful captives, for the capti-vh.y. the juft ; or thus, we are in captivityaccording to their law, that is, according to,inquiry eftabliftied by the law. I fhall notbe long in fpeaking ^hat I have to fay fromtheie words ; but as to the qusftiou, there* ,are thefe two or three things in . it, and wo./ha'l only name them and not come over, ,them again.i There is this holden out by it, that, jfometimes the people of God are. made a iprey, I wot well that word is made out in,our day, Ifaiah xlix, 15. 4 S ruth faileth,.‘ and. he that departed^ from evil maketh* himfelf a prey.* ift! tell you what many-Jfolks fay in this lar-d, they forbear praftices, Ithat fome men at this time are forward in,to evke trouble: nay, but lot bearing dutyis your fin ; and if ^u fin not. with othersyou may.make yourf£lf*a prey : but the provi¬dence of this timei is aicommentary fuffeient.of thtk words; they are mot worthy of. their.name nojy. that isnct,a prey iu Stothnd^ thatn.an that can keep the cr ~..n of .the caufey.v |is not worthy of a good day or a good e’en,(were he the heft irimftcy in Scptjarid. 1 bidi not a badijer mark: of a man or womanhhan this, that they are,not a prey—Godb,e thanked we are.at this day, that any manipay. fiiQot us, we think it our gI-._ ry—Thefe^that are free to buy and fed a^rd go to the.-'hirk.and market at this time have their freerj dom at a dear rate. We are a prey and cap:?tives? they have bp-th nien and women inprifon, and all according, to their -law; we,mud not take, ill with this, ypu fee there:| hath no Itrange thing happened us but what.I bath belallen men, inch things have happen-| ed the church be^aa '"'A r '""A ^"‘4’and the Lord hathwarned u^ of it j he hath wap-ed us, notI only in genea.rt, ‘ if any man come, to me," * he rauit deny him.feli, and take up his^* ‘ crofs,’ &c; and through many tribulationsr we muif enter into the kingdom of heaven p4 but particulars are confcended upon andI cordials fukable to. thefe p’omifes.—Thereis a cordial in this chapter, beware of grudg¬ing j we at e a prey, but ere long they thatprey upon us v/iil be preyed upon.2. The fecond thing we may obferve here,is this. That it is incident and caXeable tothe church and people of God, not only toi be a prey, but to be a prey unto toe handsof thefe that are very mighty, ftrong andterrible like, for fo the words will bear ; wemay fay our perfecutcrs arc thanve ; if we were as ftrong as they, we would,laugh V them, and would but p’ay withthem ; but the truth is, they have forces andgrxnies at their command, both within andwithout the land. But,3. The word imports this likewife, thatnot only is the church fometimes a prey tothe mighty,, but aifo that the people ot 'Godvil! *e juft defpairing that ever they can bedelivered again: {hall the prev be takenfrom the mighty, fhnll the prey be takenfrom the king, from the council, from the•forces and foldiers, how can it be ? it can¬not be ; for when we look to our right handthere is none to care for us, all refuge hathleft us —There is a queftion here, which Itlefire all the minifter’s in Scotland to anfwer.Will yonder prey be taken from the migh¬ty ? nay nay., fay they, they need not at¬tempt it ; and we ourfelves who know itare at defpairing ; we think itneedlefs to pravor fall, preach or fight; for when we mintto rife, then the Lord comes and gives usfuch a .blow, that we are made to fit dowm a-gain, and flick falter to the ground thanever before.—Nay, if you could get all theangels in heaven this day this qneftion wouldpuzzle them.'—It is true indeed, believersthat win to an intimacy with God, may geta fight of this, God will deliver, but herecomes the matter, * by whom {hall Jacob* arife, for he very Imall ?’ Here is one to9anfwsr pofidvely and affirmatively, and tells,how it Ihall be accompiilhed; who anfwersit ? ffie Lord3 he even fays, l fee well e«nough, though I would make miniftersand other believets, yea angels tell, thatthe prey (hall be taken from the mighty, itwall mot do it; I will take this queftion on1 myfelf: lor immediately before, you fee he| promifeth to make kings their nurfing fat, thers, &c which fhews us this.ieffon, Tha-i after God hath promifed a thing he dothi not inlfantly and immediately perform it;: but between God’s giving a promife to a| people; and the accomplifliment thereof^' mere may follow fuch things as may makeus think it will never be, but that rather the: contrary will be. And while the people areunder thefe things that prognofticate thecontrary of what he hath promifed in hisword, and on which he hath caufed us toijhope, then he comes in himfelf; ‘ But* thus faith the Lord, Even the captives ofu the mighty Ihall be taken away,’ verfe 25.i which is an anfwer to this, ‘ bhall the prey1 ‘ be taken from the mighty ?’—the mightylays, You (hall never be taken out of our‘Ihands; yea, molt of all the people fay fo :1 ‘ But thus faith the Lord, Even the captives* ©f the mighty Ihall be taken away, and the‘ prey of me terrible Ihall be delivered?’—:Beiieve ye this ? I am fare if ye believed this,'ye would be content to be fined and calk'.out of your houles, wander, and take your '■ Hi jiiw*/iives in your hands for a time : thers is asmuch in this word as may make us go awaytinging, that may comfort us againft all thetroubles this time can afford us.Ye will talk of news, here is rood r-ews,* the prey (hall be taken from tne mighty,* and the lawful captive delivered.’ But,fay ye, there is little likelitn .od for it: where¬fore, where is the man to do it? I know nonoblemen, gentlemen nor commonswethe&i to within thefe few years; butnow the commons are Involved in the fameguilt with the gentlemen, and are lying byas well as they there is no fniniiier norprofdfor to do it, and indeed the Lord willnot lippen to one of us ;—thanks be to Godfor that j for if it were iipperfed'to us, W'ewould be always under troubles, and thework would be razed to the foundation, fothat there would be no memory of it topcfierity — I hen will you fay to the Lord, jHow fhall this pray be taken from the {!mighty, &c r ■ind 1 will tell you Whatwill be the anfwer. Which is this, ‘ For Iwill contend With them that Contend with‘ thee, and will fave thy children, and Will* iced them that opptefs thee with their own‘ flcflj,’ &c. — Never think that ye Will getfalvation till God come and contend withh s enemies, borne would invert this, theywould iirre have fatvadon, and then contend¬ing with the enemies ; but that is not theway that God minds to-take, and therefore11it will ’ncJt profper, take it who will; bothmimlters and profefibrs Gcxi hath to con¬tend with, when he comes back to Scotland,■ to contend v.irh them that 'contended withIns people. Many think that if we had fuchi an army as they had the laft year, we wouldcontend with them : the Lord God dfHuffs will contend with them ere long, andhe will feed them that opprefs you wnth theirI -own fLfh.- O but folk may th'nk that this is cruelty ;indeed if a minifier or proteflbr had faid it, itmight be thought cruely, but it is the Lord’sWords—When our Lord~ comes, he will befevere, he will be fo (t« fpeak after the man¬ner of men) he will be cruel, he is juft in¬deed ; the inltruments that he will make; ufe of, what ever fort they be, they muffhandle enemies with other fort of weapankthan they have been handled } yea, they will« take collops out of their flefh and make themS-eat it, and give them their blood to drink;| this will the Lord do, and make them knowil that he is the Lord^, the Saviour and Rg-t1 deemer of his church. He is not known toI be the Lord now'; heds but mocked,cflight-• ed, and, lightly e(teemed; but when he‘ comeo to execute juftice and judgement, hewill make all -know that he is the Lord, theI Redeemer of his peop.e, and that his loving■kindnefs hath been remaining witfl them nilalong; and be who they will, whom theLord will laife up to execute judgement in12this land, they will reward them,as theyrewarded us, they will not fpare; as helives he will bring cruel foreigners ere he’want. But ye may fay, we need n^t trouble©urfelves about it, the Lord will do It, wemay ly by, we need not trouble our heads a-bout it. Many would be at that; indeed theLord will do it, but we mull make ufe of,the means incumbent upon us: —I fhall fpeak•f feveral means to be made ufe of, in or¬der to halten the Lordss delivery of the cap¬tives, contending with them who have conten¬ded with us.j. The fiiil tv/o or three of thefe meansyou may fee from Revd xii 11. in the 10thverfe it is faid 4 the accufer of the brethren‘ is call down,* &c. What is meant byJ;.that ? that is the devil hath gotten a foreftroke; how got he that ? verfe 11. 4 Andthey overcame by the blood of the Lamb.’—What is that? by believing Jefus Chrift, by "employing him, by giving him much credit,who is the Captain of Oalvation, and wasmade perfeHk- through fuffering.—O fad that(there is fo little faith in our day ! faith willfay to this mountain. Remove yonder, andit will be : we may fay there is nothing itn-poffible to him that believes: 4 they over-4 came by the blood of the Lambindeedhe that believes will overcome if it were ona fcatfold, yea, even when lying on theground, and his*blood gufhing outj for hisblood* when it is gone, by virtue of the it,t!- *3slood of Jefus (thrift is crying for ven¬geance. * r«s.e noble viftories that hath been;win to in fields and on scaffolds by ou. Lordin this land and elfewhere ; ‘ the dragonnd ‘ his angels have fought with Michael andhrs angels; but the dragon hath been call; down.’2. \ fecond mean is this ‘ (their tsefti*imony^’ they overcame by the Word of their; teftnnony ’ Fy on you in this gen¬eration that is fo much agamft tellimonieswhen the Lord is drawing it out of them, andf any appear to give a teflimony the reft is■ offended thereby, they overcame by the; blood of their teftimony.* Had we openlyi pleaded with our mother, and teflified a-Sgainff the fins of our rulers who ruled in. i-his land, we had not lien fo long under themet of the ulurper of him who is the dated en-jemy of Jefus Child : nay, nor under the feet|pf thefe under him—Indeed it is true this|s a teftimony at this time to come to preachland hear preaching after this manner L butfor fuch a tedimony (that if it was in ourwer we Ihould have let about it) : for myiiaart I would think it our duty, if probably.ve could think to get away to go and tellhem to their faces, that they are traitors totUod and abominable perfons : we have of-en faid in the fields, that our king hathoeen a traitor to God, and when we go toi town to declare it by paper, the mod partire offended in our Lord at this time.—1’h14fell you I defire not to fay it to take the praiftto myfelf, but l fay, if the teftitnony lie adhered to, it will give them a fore blow, everthat paper that huh fallen accidentally intitheir hands, and hath been left as crcfies—■If the teftimony given at Kuihergien, Ma’>29, 1679, had been adhered to, we vvouhave fet-n other things* than we have feenthe Lord would have countenanced l.speopie, and owned their tellitnony *1 fay,’fet aLout giving of teilimomes, this Otall haflef 1God’s coming out of his place to fave hr:chi'dren.3. ‘ They overcame by net loving theirlives unto the death,’ that is. by fuffering.-and indeed fuffeiing gives a noble oifh teen*remies; we never loft any thing by dearthfiiflering, but gained much by thofe v/Ik .loll their lives in fields arid‘on 'caftblds but‘there are many that will fay, indeed wifhould fuller, but fay they, we fhotild milfight. But let me lee the tpan that fays bejis not for flighting ; (it is true, if the Loftcall net to it, it fhmild be fo) but for fuller-ing, that man is certainly iidatnated, ant:miffed by the tempter, who will fitfTer 1 kc’thofe v-ho cry down deffenfive arms whenthey come to fuffer, aud are not willing tofuffer any lofs -as to their own matters, biltthey will fuller the gofpel to go away ; we areafhamed of fuch folk, ever pretending for fiff*fering, hnd yet ftiil yielding to temptations;,♦ ever one at): the enemies have made thefe15 'years bygone but ever they yieid to them;lay they, 1 could not hdp payiifg ot thecefs, and taking of the bond* and payinglocality, I wot well fay they, i did it a-gain(t my will, ard fo it was my adii ion^ and fuffering: the Lord will not thank you dor| ft-* it is not fuffering : It is yielding.4. There is a fourth mean, that We fliOuMi prefcribe to you, in order to t e doing whdtye can, to haften the Lord’s contending withthem that contend with you ; and ytki mayread it, Ldke xviii, 7 ‘ Pray always and‘ fa'Tit Frert, Wiii not God avenge his own|* eieft that cry to him day and night thd*;• he bear long with them.’ You tnufl notfquit *pmying, teiufe to give him reft, orikeep filerit till he'eftabliflr truth, and makeiijerufalem a praife in the whole earth. Manywf you, it ;may be, haVe prayed long andLcbtri'e little fpeed. 6 We have been in pain,* but have brought-forth the wind ; yet yottisnuft continue; will ye continue this year,. ind ye .may get deliverance the next.—We. cannot let n time, but wc know r eft howI'ooa our deliverance may -appear to all, toihe terror 'df enemies, confufion of themthat reproach us, and to the'reioicing rdf hfejeople; for he is upon the matter comlhg*;hen dry, Ldmfe forward, :he will be -uVeirg--d of his enemies, if ye -quit duty ere ‘hfe,■omo, ye v.ili get no ihaiiks when he comes ^iCcording to that, L'zek. xvii4. 24. * If thferighteous man commit fin, his lighteouf^c16nefs {hall be forgo'ten.’-^Many, who bytheir profeffion aopeared to be advancing,have quit their duty ere Chrilt hat i come,and ttiey will be dealt with as them whominted at duty, hfalm cxxv. s* ‘ lor*■ fuch as turn afide unto their crooked ways4 the Lord will lead them forth withworkers of iniquity.* Up and be d'>ingwith your prayers, and the Lord will be withyou.5. Another mean to haften the Lord’s re¬turn, you ha e Pfaltn tx^vi 5. look firit tothe iqth verfe, * burely the wra'h of man4 fhall praife thee, the remainder of wrath4 wilt thou reltrain ’ Womd ye have theremainder of man’s wrath reftrathed ? * thenverfe it. ‘ Vow and pay unto the Lord your4 God,* &c. Verfe 13, 4 We fhall cut oil• the fpirit of princes, he is terrible to the* kings of the earth.* Would ye have theLord to cut off the fpirit .of princes, to cut off!the abominable? would you have him terri¬ble to Charles, James, and Monmouth too ?then you (hould bring yourfelves under en¬gagements to ihe moft High : let us neverimagine that ever a party in Scotland willthrive that ever our Lord will give fucceisto a party even ufmg lawfful means till theyvow to j;he Lord, and endeavour to perform :but you may fay, did not that party whoappeared in the fields 1666, renew tne- co- ‘venant at Lanark, and yet they were broketyea, and never looked io hopeful like a£*eift'11that as before ? t know no reafon of tlieirbeing put to the worfe, but this, and I dareTay it in my Mailers name, and in hisflrength make it out, That the reafon of thecovenant then fworn to had no fuccefs, warbecause they (till took in tne king’s intereil,aotwithilanding he had declared himfelf adated enemy to Jefus Chrift and his intereft.You may read and always obferve. that thelieveral reformations that were in Judah,here was always a new covenant entered in¬to with an acknowledgement of the circum-iiances, fins, and duties of that time : foray part I defire not to reiisc!: upon our fa-• ers for bringing home Charles Stuart ; butodeed fome of them, among others, theeveretfd and worthy Mr. Livingilone, didp mourning to the grave for it; yet hisidions fince, and the contrivance of thefem, declares that it is impoflible to mani-:(l the royai prerogatives ef Jefus Chrift,|d manifeftly avow fo much as his civil) lit him as a king, or quit Chrift as king ; in-ed l am for this, for no king but Jefusinft, fince they will have none but Caefar ;d after CHRIST is upon his throne, andcrown upon his head, let fuch magi-ites be appointed as will employ theirver for the advancing the kingdom of Je-Chrilf, and deftrsying the kingdom ofkntfs in this kingdom, and in every placehis favour, or any power underiSr\\4iere Chrifl: Hwll reign, r.na lit tliciu beoivned. We are coi)ft'ai*ie,d to fay this, andcan fay in onr Lord, aud Maftet’s name, letvows and covenants go through tfe land,though we fhould n t have an array in Scot¬land this twelvemonth: yet, as..'he herdI'yea, though lie had not, a parry..to hack lamypt he bimfelf would bring down all. aboutus, 4 Vpw ani-pay unto the LO 'vTand‘ hp will cpt orf-.the fp.rit. of punpes, for he4 is terrible to the- k,i%s cf the earth hewill make the n all to (hake and quake. Itis obferved by.old bithop Spotfwood in ltd in.burgh, at the time the la it bithoos werebrought down : when he heard tell that fp:renoblemen and gentlemen were met togetheiin. Edinburgh, to renew thp national, .covenant. O, fays he, we have done with it, finahis people have entered into the covenant. Ctmit there were perfonal, entering into covqnant, and that there were general and national vowing to God : that they, would havnone to be the head of his church but thriftand that they would have none to be rulerbut fuch as will be a terror to evil doer:;letters of covetoufnefs, and lovers of Godif it were fo, we durft pawn our fouls, tinour Lord would foon arife out of his plac«and jet us fee our delire on our enemies ; *that we. were vile! O but, poor peoplthey are much dilhearteu d and dil’courageithey think that no means will dp good : ncufif we would acknowledge that we have waif19 . .I contrary to him and h’ fo vs. Lev. 5fxvi.3 41. he .v^ouhi fo >n aiJoeav : and if yc aikw I can i'pcak fp confi j^ntl -: d the Lord spearino; and vcomen iin^ wkh his a enemies>w, when there is- fo litfje aopjara'ice of*—I anfwer, There is mor e-appear^ncer ofnow. than there ^as in the beginning of,me lid year, for as t^teat an arpiy as ye had•/efore the break of fiothwell) : ii yc would■aw near to God he would draw neat to you ;iid if thofe things were fet about that. we.dve fpoken of. ye would leg the deliver-jijce completed very niordy : and I’ll tell>u the fyniptQtns of it in two words, and.Ut is, the people of God are very low,ltd the enemies of God are gay and high,may be they will be higher yet; the:my is nothing that they have in compari-m of what they may have ; he will have all{s enemies gathered together, and then heill bring a.ciafa among them : for our parte fhouid net ca-re that not only the armyjiat they have were in a body, but that alljar Lord's enemies in Furppe were gathereddgether, that he might cut them off. Itill be found to be true, that when thereI none fnut up or left, the nearer will hismining he, as; you may fee it. Dent, xxxii.6. ‘ For the Lordihali judge his people, andrepent himfelf for his, fervants, when hefeeth that their poy/er is; gone, and thereis none Ihut.upor left.1Ivend much the prophetical fermons of wor-20thy and godly Mr. William Guthrie, for hfpeaks clearly of what is now our lot, a!things that we look to is laid by, great menmultitudes of men, minifters and protefibrs iindeed it is fad to think on the ^ ays the- [have gone: av, there is many minifters now iwho are faying. Yonder people will geleave to (land and fall by themfelves, nonitwill join with them ; fome are thinkingO but it would be a hopeful bufmefs, if thrpeople and all the minifters and prole{roT;i'would join in one, as matters ftand l would it)think it good wifdom to run away from rthe union, it would be a black mark, he twrit! not give his glory to another ; he wit ihave few means, and thefe defpicable ones, sthat his glory may the more appear: and nthey be fuch as the eyes of the people fhal ,be drawn after. I’ll warrand they (hall be )laid by alfo ; not but that he will make ufe ;of means and inftruments. O to wait orhimfeif for counfel, wifdom, courage anc nfurniture of every fort, for going about themeans, that he may be calling us to; .bis i1and our enemies are but laughing at us, we’llthen put-the LORD to it to make out his |wordj and fay. Lord, thou haft laid, and beas good as thy word : plead with him, yoomay plead with him more homely than anyin a country fide. Iftaft thou not faid, ‘ Foi* the opprefiion of the poor and ughing oi‘ the needy thou wilt arife O if wewere but groaning to the Lord, telkg him what he hath prom'fed, we wouldst wonderful things made out by him ;—concerning mv fons and my daughters, andthe works of mine hands command ye me :*ifiy. there is a great moyan with the Lordlow as ever there was: ‘ he never faid tocany of the houfe of Jacob feek ye my face;in vain.* Let us make ufe of p-ayer,ihich whl not hinder us to make ufe ofther means, and I’u allure you we’ll make1 our enemies tremble and fnake yet ——•That need us fear, is not the Lord on ourde ? And if fo, who is againlt us ? Havee not the word of God to be oijr fupportHi the day of our affli&ion ; ‘ unlefs the lawof the Lord had been our delight we hadfainted we had declined either to what isnful in the land, or to lying by, which isinful alfo.Now then, I fay this,, you fee your cafe in* word. * Shall the prey be taken from thea mighty, or the lawful captive delivered ?*•4—Thu*faith the Lord, The prey {hall be ta»i ken from the mighty, even the .captive of'i the mighty (hall be taken away, and thej prey of the terrible fhall be delivered : for11 will contend with him that contendethwith ypu, &c.’——Go home with the anfwerf this queftipn from the Lord : he is to arfeo contend with them that contend with hisft’jople.,|‘THE END,23.Jtjhjri Rrh'ton concerning the Res. Mr. Richard Caronf t coil to the Mh.i/.ry of t e Gfpel, to ho was till.in a Renc-jimter at Airfm [s, July 2 id. 1600.I T will not be ('perhsps) ungrateful to forcieinfert the following relation of foms rtmar!tab|things aren; his c?!l to the ititv.tiry, wi.ich was rehc«fed by hinafeif a little bdore h> death where he ttforne chriitien friends, that after his having gone thronethe ordinary cou?fe of uhivcrfty learning lit was a Schor!mailer and a Precento’ to a Curate at Falkland, for foftime, and at tome occahons, uftd to attend the Scrmorjof the indulged Minifters as It; li^d opportunitylength it pltefed the LORD to incline him to go outthe field-meetjtjgs, v.hich when the l.urates ni;der{too ‘ :they fet upon bin partly by flatterits, partly bymena. 1ing threads, end at length by more diredt prrfecution, 11,Caafe him for! rar r.WtndiDg thele meetings; but tufwas the powerfuf snd tyoKtlfffnj working o^the Lord hhis fpjrit uppn him that he entirely defined thefc prehtlCurstfs, having got a ItVi ly difeovery of the fin and h;zard of that abominable Prelacy. Ana no fooner whe eidightned an- nt tbe evil of Prelacy, but beginninmore narrowly iq fearch into the hale of things, that 1might know wh?t was his proper and necrjlarY duty, tl:Lord was pleaded to difeover to him the finfulnefs of thindulgence, as flowing from the Eccl-fiafticsl fiipremacy ;ufurped by the king ; and being zealonfly •fhtled fithe honour of Chriif, wronged hy that eraflian a knowledgement of the magillrateh ufnrped power over lb]church, he longed for n 1 pportunh.v togiv at'-Him nagsinflit; and accordingly V lingm the family of fir Wilhan]Scot cf Harden, who attended the indulged meet ,igs,took opportunity not-wkbflanding many flrotv' ti raptaltions .•'om Satan to the ( ontiarv ■ to wijn;fs in bis (laneagainft.the indulgence ; particularly otje Sjbb. th arter hwascallet to attend tbe lady to church, he returned ironthe entry refufing to go that iay, and fptnt the day ihis chamber, where he met with much cf the Lore ’s pre 1bcc yas he teftified) and very evidcat: difeovenes of thewf 23.of tbelo tcrrtntationa »«3 fuggcftisns of Sat™,had like to havo prcvai!«d. him bdore. And upon.f\Moiulay. giving a rsifonto the fakl fir Wi'Han Scot1 his lady., why hs went not to the church wkh them,noit occafi. n tp be plain, and exprefs in teftify ng a-, intt tlie finfulne s of the indulgence, in its cpirplex na-. e, and original rile and fp>mg from whence it flowed ;1 thereupon leaving that, fervice, being no further ac¬table to them; becaufe of his faithlrvlnefg, he came to.» fotuh, and having met with the revetend '4r John. elili, he flayed in his ccmpany a confiderahie time;0 finding him a man qualified for the m nidry, p’-effedon hi.a to accept a licenc- to preach, which he refufedj fome time chiefly upon tbis reafon, that he having(di clear difeovf ries of the finfulneis of the indi.lgencp,!ild net but teftifie againilit explicitpiy , fo loon as heraid lave opponuniiy to preach in public ; snd confid-jng, that none of the outed vfiniflers, who hid been^Handing and experience in the mmiflry, had yetexpref-kieclarcd the firttuinefs thereof in public, he was afraid■tit his being Angular in it confmering his youth, andirbTng put mw entred upon the work of Mmiftry,Jg^'t p .rhaps rrake his doctrine thehfs useful and weigh-|to the peopl- : hut the force ot his objection being re-jped, by Mr. Welfh’s ferious lol’citations he was^pre-:. led with to accept a licence trom fome of the outed1 nifter, who had not cemplied wiA the indulgence,d were as yet preaching- the gofpel in the field?. And|v;n- preached occAior.Jy with Mr. Wflfli and others,jl vtral p.'ace1 of the wettern {hires, and findmg the peo-i .-v/arnjrj - and «,fftf6ke.i by his doctrine by the goodad pf Gcd bUffing the word ; h^- adventured (bmetimesthe Lord n{Tilted him, to be exprtfs and ciear in de¬ring the finfulneL of the indulgence; andof joining wdth: acceptMrs thereof; where,pon the Minifters, whoi 1 cenf d him o preach, conceiving its prejudice not to1 ' expiicite anent that ftep <.f comphance, hegan to- feeme him wrth ceniure for his freedom in preaching; hind it, and called thre'e several meetings upon that ac-int, one at Duni'core in Nithiaale, another at Din-gh in. Galloway, and a third at Falinbvroh,:*4A'rtfr return from HoJlanJ, where he receivtfdinatii' n to th* cxercif of ^he tiini^ry. be wen* to fetfof thofe outed Vi*riiife s. inviting and prefling therr^,•ar^/4 rxr*<»r*r»K ’in ♦ ri • or ♦ V* V» nto come out and pr-rcli in the fields, at.they hadbefore the overthrow at BothwelJ; but®he per)ec ?being then very hot againft all fuch is bsd not acc*ptth« indfilgence and indemnity, they refufed to adventupon tltat hazard ; When fore notwithfh&ndlng ^uch f,.difeourag* menu from the p ofcffed fiiends, and violeperfecution by the declared enemies of the reformatiohe adventured upou all hazard to preach publicly in tfields, in order to difeharge the difpenfation of the g<pel, whi h the Lord hath entrufted him with ; Andcontinued fo doing till he fea’ed that caufe and tefhnrwith his blood: being, after feme valiant nfifianc*his own defence, hilled by a parly offoldiers, uudei tjcommand of Ear^ Hall, and his head and hand* cutby one Robert Murray, were brough* and laid befr!the council, who ordered them to be placed upon tNetherbow port ef Edinburgh,J I N I S,x'-v