THEsPOLITICAL HISTORY .jOF THEDEVILUPON TWO S TICKS,TRANSLATED from the FRENCH,ANDUniting in a diftinft v'etr,. an account'of thewhole traafu&ions in France, from the Re¬volution throughout the War so the pre-1cm Fime, with Hiftorical Sketches♦ A h, ■' >of the Lives ofDUMOURIER, DUKE OF ORLEANS.ROBESPIERRE, AND DANTON;.jPrinted for the Bookfellers.THEOLITIC A.L HISTORYO F T'H E«DEVILUPONTWO STICKS — C H A P. I.P What fort of a d^v 'd^ the Devil upon ^Tiuo Sticks nuds •and where and how Don Cleofas Perez Zambullo be-I came acquainted with himy life, tttfe.NE night in Odlober, when thick darlrnefs hadoverspread the famous city cf Madrid, and the'weary inhabitants, being reared to their rel’peitiver homes, had left the freets free to thofe reftlefs: levers, whole nightly care is to fing their pains orpleafures under the balconies of their miftreffes j andnow the bufy inftrume. ts had already roufed thej: careful fathers, a;:d alarmed the jealous hulbands.’•i in fhort, it was aimoft midnight, when DoitCleofas Leandro Perts Zambu’lo, a young ftud^ntiof Alcala, very nimbly bolted out of the garret win-.iPdow of a houie, into which the indifereet Ion of ther, Cytherean godd fs had enticed him. He endeavour-i ed to prderve his life and honour by flying from1 three or four bullies, who followed defeat his heels,t threatning to kill or force him to marrjr a lady,it whom they had juft furpriled him-( 4 )Though alrne, he yet bravely defer Jed himfelf fometime againll fo much odds, and had flill maintain¬ed his ground, if they had not Wrefted his fwordfrom him in.the fight: they followed him for lometime along the gutters ; but, favoured by the night,Jie at 1 ngth got char of them, and healing alongfrom one # houfe top o another, he made towardsn light which he perceived a great diftance off, andwhich, feeble as it was, yet ferved him for a lanthornin that dangerous conjunclu e. Af er more than once'tunning therifk of breaking his neck, he reached thegarret whence-its rays proceeded, and entered it bya window, as much tranfported with joy as a pilotis when he finds kimfi if and his fii'p late in the har¬bour after a narrow efcape at lea, and the terrors ofa tempeft.fie immediately b ok d around him, and muchwondered he (heu’d. meet with nobody in an apart¬ment which feemed f.» very odd and fimprifing Heexamined it vj'h grta’ at'ention and Ibw a copperlamp hanging from the deling, bocks and papers inconfufion on the table, fphcrcs and comp die; on theone lidej phials and quadrants on the ether j ailwhich made him cor elude, th. t under this roof livedan aftrologer, who u u l:y retired hither to make hisobfi-rvatiors. He rtfl dted cn the dangers he had bygood, fortune efcaped, and was ccnfidering whatccurie was the molt proper for him to lake, when hewas. intci rupted by a deep figh that broke forth verynear him He ar firlt took it fi r a n< cturnal il!u-Coti or imaginary phantom, proceeding from thedillurbar ce he was in, and wi.hout interruption con¬tinued his renecliors.But being interrupted a fetond time in the famemanner, be then took it fer femething real ; andthough he law no foul in the room, could not helpcrying out, what devil is it that fighshere ? It is me,Signior ftudent-, anlwtred a voice, which had {omc«• The tops or the houfes in Spain are flat.(S)svhat very extraordinary in it ; 1 have been fixmonths inclofed in one of thofe giafs phials. In thishcufe lives a Ihiiful afirologer an.l magician, who bythe power of h s art has cor fined rne to this ciofeprifon You are then a fpiritfa d Cle ofas fomewhatconfufed at this u'common adventure. I am adse non. r pUfd the voce and vott are come very op-portune1 v to free me from flivery v>lif.re I lan-pui'h in i 1 ; el's ; then :h l a:n tns moil aclive andindef: i oib'e devii in in ilCleofas wa<- f;;mtv.'hat afFrichted at thefe words;b u beir>g naturally c Mirage*us, he r.coPecl dhimfelf,and n a refo'nte tone thus adreiTed hirafetf to thef.nrit S'uincr daemon, pray inform me by whatcl'.,u :£l r vou are Jiitinmibhed among vour bre-j v.> O ytaren afe y ,u a devil of quality, or an ordinaryone f I am, rep ied the voice a very confiderabledev l arnl' am more eil. eo e ! in. this and the otherworld,' than any other P r.v.ps, replied C.eofas,vou mav be th* (‘te non.w i_h we c I Lucifer? Noj jreplied the (pint he is the mountebankdi devil Arcycu then Uri ! ? r.-turned the i u ent, F.e ! hafiilyinte: runted the voice) he is th" patron of traders,,tayl r;, butchers, bake;s, and other third-ratethi- vesIt may be vou are Beelzebub, faid Leandro, Youdeceive ■ ourf lf, anl wered the f’pirit, he is the dxmonof goyernanres. and [gent ernen u hers, or waitingm n This furprifes me, faid the iludent: I tookBeelzebub for one of tne greatdl of ycur number-He is one cf the Irad replied the dtemon *, you haveno true notion of our he'd.Ycu mull then, replied Don C eofas, be eitherLeviathan, Be’phegor, or Afhtaroth. Oh! as foei thole three, faia the voice, they are devils of the firftrank ; they enter into the councils of princes, ani¬mate the miniflers, form leagues, ftir up infurrec-lions in dates, and light the torches of vsir.But my tufinds lies another way. I make rkh-enlfni* matches, and marry old grey-heards to rawgirls under ae;e, matters to their maids, virgins oflow forrtmes to lovers that have none. It Is I that,have introduced into the world, luxury, debauchery,games of chymiftry I am the inventor of caroufalsdancing, mufic, plays, and rli the new French fa-Ih ons. In a word, f am the celebrated Afmodeo,furnamed the Dev:l upon Two Sticks.Ah • cried Don Cleofos you are then the famousAfmodeo, fo glorioufly celebrated by Agrippa andthe,Clavicu’.a Salamonis ? Really you have not toldme all your amuftments : you have forgotten thebeft of them, I know that you fbmetimes divert your-felf with afluaging the pains of unfortunate lovers;by the fame teken, it was by your affiftance that ayoung gentleman a friend of mine, crept into thegood graces of a doftor of the univerfity of Alcala’slady. It is true, faid the fp’rit; I referved that tillthe laft : I'am the dtemon'cf luxury, or to expref. itgenteelkr, the god Cupid : for ’he. poets have be¬llowed that fine name on me, and indeed painted nit, .♦in very advar.jaget u> colours; they ceferibe mewith gilded wings, a fillet' bound.ov;r my eyes, abow in my hand, a qu'ver of arrows on my ihoul-defs, and a charming beaut ful face. 'V hat fort ofa face it is you fhail immediately fee, if you pkaieto fet me at liberty. vbignior Afmodeo, replied Don Cleofas you km wthat I have fong beer^ycur fnctre devotee; td t! etruth cf which the dangers I jull new ran are tufil-cient evidences, I fli uld be veryambi it us of an op¬portunity of ferving you ; but the vedel in whichyou are hidden is undoubtedly enchanted It is inyour power to do it, anfwered the demon: thephial in which l am inclofed is barely a plain glatsbottle, which is very eafy to break; you need onlythrow it on the ground, and 1 lhail immediately ap¬pear in human Ihape. If lo, fa.iJ the fcholar, it iseafier than I imagined ; tel], me then in which phialyou are, f r I fre {o many like one anMher, tcannot c’ift ngu'rfh them It is the fourth frstn thewindow, replied'the fptrit, th ugh the cork he foaledwith a magical fral, yet the bottle wid eafily break.Tt is en u li, Sign'ur Afmodto, returned Don: Cleofas there is now only one (mall difficulty whichi deters me when I have done yen this f rvice, willyen not make me pav f r the broken pots ? No ac¬cident fh d b f .1 you, an!' cred the 'as.non,; but »-n.'the con rary you will be plcaf. d v idi my acquain¬tance, I will learn y< u w taterer you are clefirous toi I know, infer at you of a'i things which happen in theworld, and dtfcover to you all the faults of mankind ;I win be your tuteh r daemon, you ilia 11 find rue:( nmch mere intelligent thin that'of doCrates, and S't will make you far fur oafs that ph’l-dbph r in. wifdom :i in n word, I v. ill bSitcw my-fclf- cn you, with my| gao l and' ill qu 'dlties; the la'ter of whi.h (hall noti be hf, advantageous to y u ban the f rriur-Tkvf: are line promiics, r p'.i d the fiudait,'butyou gcntienirn devils are accuf d of not being veryreligious obfirvers of *hat you pfomiP* to men Iti? a groundlefs charge r'plied Af.nod-o ; fome ofmy bre hren indeed make no f. riip’e of breakingtheir word, but 1 (not to mrn.ion the f rvice y u aregoing to do me, which I can n.v r fuffici-ntly repay)i aai a (live to mine ; and 1 f.ver by ail that rendersour oa.hs inviolable, that 1 will not deceive you.Depend upon my afiurances C promife you withal,; that you ihall revenge yruhfetf on Donna homafa,that perfidious lady, who hid four ruffi -.ns to fur-t prife and force vou to marry,her; a circumftancethat fhquld pleafs you.Young ZtmbuUo, charmed above all with thislaid promife, to h.-ftea its accomptimment, immedi-i ateiy took the phial, and with' ut concerning him-fe’f what might be the event of it, he threw it hardtaeainll the ground it broke into a thoufand pieces,and overflowed theflocr with a bla-gkiih liquor, whichby little and little evaporated, and converted itfelfinto a thick fmoke; which dilTipating all at oncethe am; zed ftudent beheld the figure of a man in acloak, about two feet and a half high, refting ontwo crutches. This diminutive lame mender hadgoats legs, a long vifage, fharp chin, a yellow andblack complexion, and very flat nofe; his eyes,which feemed very little, refembltd two lightedcoals; his mouth was ex repteiy wide, above whichwere two wrete' ed red v hilk'rs, edged with a pairof uoparaliel’d lips.This charming Cupid’s head wat wrapt up in aTort of turban cf red rrape, let efr w ith a plume ofcock’s and peacock’s fea>hers About his neck hewore, a yellow linen collar, on which were drawn le-veral models of necklaces,, and ear-rings tie wasdre.lTed in a fhort white tat!in coat, end girt aboutwith a girdle < f vjigin parchment, marked withtalifmanical charr.cters On this coat were printedfevejal pair of women’s (lays, veiy advantagecnflffitted for the d icevrry c f their breafts; fearves,parfy-coiourcd aprons, raw faihioned heac) cheffes cfvaiious fort!, each mere ex'ravaj ant than the other.But ail thefe were nothing compared with h s'cloak, the ground of which was al. o of w ‘re fattin :cn it with Indian it k, were drawn an inhiine-num¬ber of f'gurfs, wi h fo n uch freedom . and fuchinafterly itrokes, that it was natural to think the de¬vil had a hand in it on ore li t appeared a t'paniihlady covered with her vail, teazling a iira' ger as theywere waiking ; and i n the ether a French, one prac-tfing new airs in htr ■"dafs, in ere er to tr,y them ata young patched and painted abbot, who appeared»t her chamber doer Mere a parcel ct Italian ca¬valiers were Cnging and playing on tlee guitar un¬der their ntilirtfi’cs ba'cor irs ; and theie a companyof Ge rmans all in ccnlufion and unbuttoned, moteintoxicated with wine and begrimedwith fhufi thanvour ..conceited fect/ch i- p‘, lurrcunc'ir g a table( 9 )cv'rflo'ved wit’i the fi th? r?m in'.s of their debauch f-in one place w'^s A great M,i]vametkn lo ’d comins;out of the bath, and e? conapaifbd by all the womenof h;s feranlio. ciHc-oufly' croaJjng to tender him.the r f’rvice : ig another, an Enghfli gentleman very;gal antly prefenting a pipe and a pot of beer to hismihrefs.There the gamftrrs were alfo wonderfully well re-prefented j fame of them animated by a fprightlyjoy, hetfp'ng up pieces of gold and filver in' theirhats ; - nd others, broken ami reduced to play. upon,honour, caftiug up their facriiigious eyes to heaven,and gnawing their cards with defpair. To conclude,there were as many curious things to be feen on it,as on the admirable buckler oif the fon of Peleus,which exhaufted all Vulcan’s srt; with this diftbrercebetwixt the perfc-tmunce of the two cripples, thatthe figures on the buckler had no relation to the ex¬ploits of Achilles, but on the contrary, thofe ca thecloak were, fo many lively imrges of whatever wz.sdune in the world by the luggeftich of Afmodeo,C H A P. IT.In lu.nich theJljfy of Jlfnodco s deliverance ij continuedi.daemon cb ervingthat the fight of him didX not very agreeably prepofiefs the fiudent inh's favou", fmiling laid, Well Sigmor Cleofas, Lean-ciio Pert-z Zambullo, you fee,the charming god oflove, the fovereign ruler of hearts, what .do you thinkof my beauty and air i Do you not take the poets forexcellent painros ? Why, really, arT ered Cleofas,they do flatter a little. Tou did not, 1 fun pole, ap¬pear in this, lhape to Pyfche ! Doubflefs no, repliedAlmodeo j I borrowed the appearance ‘of a ii>tietrench marquis, to make her uoat cm tne : vice muftalways be covered with a-fdr appearance, withoutwhich it will never phafe I aflume whatever ll^peI wil , and could have (hewed mvfeif to you in a finerimaginary body : but defigning^ without any dlfguife,to lay myfelfcopen to you, I was willing that youfliould fee me n a lhape beft fu ted to the opinionwhich the world entertains of me and my functions.My lamenefs, anfw red the devil, is owing to aquarrel ( formerly had in France with Pillardcc, thedevil of (ntereft, about one Manceau, a /on cf bu¬ll n. fs and one of the farmers of the revenues : bebeing very rich, we as warmly contefted who fhouldhave the p Hellion cf him,^nd fought it cut in themiddle region of the air, from whence Pi I'ardor,(beinti the ftronger of the two) threw me clown totheeartb, as the poets tell ye Jupiter did Vulcan: andfo from the refsmblance of our adventures, my com¬rades called me the Lime Devil, or the Devil uponTwo Sticks j and that nick-name, which they gavenie in rji'icry, has ftuck, by me ever fince ; tutihough a cripple, f can yet go pretty ntmb-y : youfhali be a witnefs of i~y agl-ityCut, adds he, let us end this difeou/fe, and makehaft" cut cf the"garret- It will not be long beforethe magician comes up to labour at the immortalityof a bcau'iful fylph which nigtitly vifits him ; and ifhe fhould furprife us, he would not fail to commit meto the kettle from whence 1 came, an confine you tothe fame. Let u> tlyr f re, in the fir ft place, threwaway all t]^e pieces of the broken phi«i, that the en¬chanter may not know my enlargement.At tbeie words the daemon gathered up all thepieces of the broken phia , and aft-r helving themcut at the window,come :hen,f.id he to the itudent,let us make the belt c-f rur way; take hold of/he endof my cloak, and f ar n thing. However dang rmsthe offer appeared to Den Cleofts, he yet ch fe ra¬ther to accept it, then expofe himfelf to the rd'nt-ment of the magidar,; wherefore he took as good( H >hold as he could of the devil, who carried hiaa outof the window.Al'modeo was not in the wrong when heboafted his agility ; he cleft the air with the ra¬pidity of an arrorw from a bow, and parch’d on St.Saviour’s ft-eple. When gotten on his feet, he laidto Don Cleofas, well, Signior Leandro, when menare in a very uneafy, hobbling coach, and cry out.This is a coach for the devil; do you now think theydo us juftice ? I think nothing can be more unrea-fonable, anfwered Don Cieofas politely, and amready to affirm upon experience , that the devil’s isnot only eafi r than a chair, but alfo fo expeditious,that nobody can be tired on the road.Ycry well replied the daemon ; but you do notknow why I brought you hither, I intend from thishigh place to {hew you whatever is at prefent doingin Madrid. By my diabolical power I will heaveup the roofs offthehoufes, and, notwithftanding thedafknefs of the night clearly expofe to your viewwhatever is now under them. A-t thefe words heonly extended his right hand, and in an inftant allthe roofs of the houfes feemed removed ; and theftudent frw the infides of them as plainly as if it hadbeen noon day, as plainly, fays Louis Velez deGuevera, as you fee into a pye, whole top is takenoff.This view was too furprifing not to employ all hisattention ; his eyes ran through all parts of the city,and the variety which furrounded him was fufficiemto engage his curiodiy for a long time. Signiaiitudenc. Lid the daenon, this confulion of objectswhich you furvey wita fo much pleafure, affordsreally a very charming profpeit: bu: in order to fur •niffi vou with a perfect knowledge of hunun life it isneceiffiry to explain to you what all thofe peoplewhich you fee, are doing. I will diiclofeto you thfprmgs of their actions, and their moft fecrethoughts.( 12 )Alas, cried tKe (Indent, the air r^founds withftariek?. 'nd antentations Some fad accident, muithave happened It is this, faid the fpirit Twoyoung g-nthmen vvt-re playing a,t cards in thatgaming houf*, where fo many lamps and candles areligh ed up ; they grevr warm upon th.ir game,drew th'dr (words <.ni wounded each other mortally.The eldeft of them is .nalrieJ, the youngeft an onlyfon, and they are both expiring. The wife of theone, and the father of the other, informed of thefad difafter, are juft come to them, and they fi 1 theneighbourhood with thrir complaints. Unfortunatechild, faid the father, addrefling himfelf to his fori,who was paft thearing him, how' often hive I advil-ed thee to leave off play ? How often have I fore¬told thee, that it would coft thee thy life ? If thoudiedft thus unfortunately, I here Cili heaven to wit-nefs, it is not my fault. As for the poor wife theis running mad j tjio’ her hufband hath by hb gam¬ing loft all the fortune fhe brought hit», though hehath fold all her jewels, and even her very clothes,fhe is inconfoiate for the lols of him. She is cur-fiug cards which have been the cmfe of it, fhe iscurfing the gaming houfe and all that live in itI extremely pity people that are raving mad forplay, faid Don C eoUs, their minds are often in fucha horrid fituation t hank heav . 1 have ntthingto anfwer for upon account of that v!cj. Bat youhave another full as tad rt p.iei the devil. ! Lit kyou it is at ad more excufable io give ycui iclf up tocommon proftitutes i and was not ycu in clangerthis very night of being killed by tuldes r Really Iwonder at the fell v pf mankind; their own f mlts fee mtrifles to them, whereas they took at thote of othersthro a microfcope.A little farther, you fee two men, whom theyare nhw burying : Uiey are two brothers, that wereboth fick of the fame diflafe, but two difterent mea-furesj one of them relied, with an entire confidence( IT )on his phyfician ; ,t!v; other let na‘urs take hercourie, yet they are both dea l ; the former fromtaking all the pliv’fle the doift >r of Jered, and thelatter becaufe he woula take nothing.This is very perplexing, fa id Leandro : Alas !what mull then a poor lick man do ? That is morethan I can tell you, replied the devil : I k io v verywell there are 1'uch things as good remedies butcannot,fay whether tl\ere are any good phyficians.Let us change the fcenet cfontinued he; I wtdfhew you fomethiog mors diverting Do not youhear a frightful din in the rtreet ? A wido v of hx-ty has this morning married, a young fellow cf ieven-teen, upon which a’lthe merry fellow* in th": quar¬ter are met together to celebrate the wedding, witha jangling concert of pots, frying pans, and kettles.You told me, intemtptedjthe Hu.lent, that the mak¬ing redicuious matches was youf province ; yet youhad no hand in this. No truly, replied the cripple;I was far from having any hand in it, for I wasconfined : but had I been at lioery, I would! nothave medd'eu m it. This widuty had a fcrupulousconfcierce and only married to enjoy her darlingpleafures without remorfe. I never mike fuchmarriages : I have a much greater p'e.,fure introubling confcience-, than ia fitting them at retLCom.-- Signior S;uient, added he, now let us goand punilh thatbife woman who fo ill returnedyour rer.dernefs. Upon which Z uibulio took holdof the end cf Afqicdeo’s cloak, who cleft th air alecoiiu time with bin!, and lat him down cn DonnaLaonja a’s houiet h; baggage w as at tal.le with Jthe four bullies,who had pindued the Uuueat over the tiles; he trem-bted with ou rageous refemment to f-.e them eat abrace 6t pitriages ai d a rabbit, and empty feveralboni s of wine, tor whi^fcae had paid, and lentthithe-, fo crown his vexmion, he iaty there v. asnothing but mirth going forward, and found by the( 14 ) *deroonfrrations Donna Thorr.afa garf, that the.company of.thefe wretches was more agreeableto.that abandoned creature than his own Ah raf-cals, cried he, ei.flamed wi;h rage, how deliciouflythey fare at my expence, and a fine mortificationthis to me.I confefs, faid the devil, it is m very pleafingfight, but they who will frequent fuch loofe ladiesmuft ex pedl adventures of this kind; they happenevery day in France to Abbes, men of the long robeand rich farmers of the revenue. If I had a fword,replied Don Clecf s, I would break in upon thofevillains and fpoil their enlertftinmfiftt. You wou'dbe overmatched replied the cripple ; leave your re¬venge to me, I will compafs it better than you ; Iwill this moment fet them together by the ears, byinfpiring them with a lafcivious Mame, and theyfhall draw their fwore’s upon each other: you willfee a fine uproar prefently.At thefe words he blew, and out of his mouthtimed 3 violent coloured vapour,that defeendedwavmg like a fquib and fpread itfelf over DonnaThomafr’s table. One of the guttb, immediatelyfeeling the effett of this blaft, drew near the hdy,and paffionately embraced htr ; but the others,pulhed on by the force of the lame vapour, endta-veure^i to tear her from him. lLa:h pretended tothe preference, which they now b gan to difpute, anda jealous rage pofl’elTsd all their minds; they cameto blows, drew th&’r fwords, and began to engagevery warmly. In the mean while Donna flhomafafhricked in a horrib e manner, and the neighbour¬hood was immediately alarmed ; th y cried outfor the officers of juftice to come, which they imme¬diately did, br >ke open the courtezan's dors, foundtwo of the ruffi ns dead on the foot, feized the reftan 1 carried th m to prison with Donna Ihomala,wno crying and tearing her ha r loll all patience,vrhidt ner guards were not a jot more moved than-• ( i5 )Zambu’lo, who 1 lughed very heartily with Afniod*^.'Well, faid the dtE:noa to the Ttudenf, are you fa-tisfied ? No replied Dan Cleofas if you would fa-I ti^fy me entirely, you niull Ihew me the prifon.What exqmdte plea'ure it will be to me, to fre thatwretch wtio-m^:ie a jeft of my p illion, (hut up there.I find that l no.v hate her more than before I lov¬ed her With all my heart replied the devil, you1 (hall always find me ready to-oblige you, though itwere even ngainft my inclination and intereft, io that1 it be for your good.In a moment thev reached the prifon, where foonafter the two bullies were brought and clapped intoI a dark dungeon. As for Ihoinafa, fhe was lodgedon ftraw, with three or fourdoofe women who had1 been taken up that day, and who on the m8STOWwere to be carried to the place appointed for fuchcreatures.snow I am fatisfied, fiid Zumbullo; l have hadthe pleafure of a fui’ revenge, My fi iead Thomafawiil not pal’s the nig it lo agreeably as fhe expedfeu.^ Let us go ana purine our obfei vat ions where youp’eafe. his, is a place wry prtper for them, an-f fvverel the fpirit; there are here a great number of! guilty and innocent p-mple ; and it is a retirementwhich begins the punilhment of the one, and pu¬rifies the virtues of the others. I will fhewyoulomeprifbncrs of each kind, and tell you why they arek.pt in chains.Before 1 enter into pariicularrs, pray take notieftof the gaolers atthe entrance into thefe horrid places.The ancient poets placed but one Creberus at hellgate?, but here is a far greater .number, as you lee.i h ie gaolers are villains that have lott all fenti-r.ients of "humanity ? he wickedeft of mv brethrencould hirdly fupply the p'ace of p;.e But I find,added he, you look with horror on thefe rooms,v-here alhths furniture is a wretched bed, and tholefrightful dungeons appear to you like fo many( ^ )graves. It is wi h reafon that you are aflo'iinifdat the m;|ery of thefe peaces, and pity the fate ofthofe wretches whom the law detains in them. Yetthey do not d’l def-rve the f me cnmpaflion ; th .;rmerits therefore fh .11 be the lubjeft of cur exami¬nation.Firft of all, in that !arge ^chamber on live right,are four men lying on thofe two wretched beds youfee. One is a vintner accufed cf poitoning a Gran¬ger, who the other day dropped down dead in hishoufe. It is pretended that the quality of the winekilled the deceafed, but the vintner alleges that wasthe quantity, and wiil be believed at his trial, forthe ftranger was a Germam. And which of themare in the right, faid D-<n CleofaS, the vintner orperfecmors ? fne aflbir, is ex'remely delicate, an-Iwered the devil. It is true the wine was adulter¬ated, but on my cenfcierce, the German had dranklo largely that the judges may fafely fet the vintnerat liberty.The fecond prisoner is by p'ofrffion an rffaffina-tor, one of thofe cut throats cal!ed Valientes, whofor four or five piflo es ate very rettdy to oblige fuchwith the ufe of their arm, that will be at the expence,to be privately rid cf an enemy. The third is a fopof a dancing mailer, who taught one of his fe¬male fcholars a ftlfe fiep the fourth is a lovercaught by thr watch, as he was fealing the balconyof a woman cf h s acquaintance, whole hulband w, sa blent It is his own fault he does not get our, bydeclaring his defign was purely amorous, but hechoofis rather to pals for a thief, and run the ril'queof his life, than txpoifc hi; millfelds honour.A very ditcreet lovit-r indeed, laid the iludent : itmult be owned that our nation Ou -docs all others inpoint of pallanfry. 1 dare ven ure a wager, thatthere is not a Fremhman in the w< rid, for examp;ethat would buffer hunielf to be hanged for hts di -crecion. No I affare you, laid the uevh, a French-irnisnaa would fooner clamber over a balcony to d51-f^race the woman that Ihould Ihew him anyfavour.Under the clofet there is a dungeon, that fervesfor a lodging t<:' a young vintner. What, my hoftagain i cried Leandro j fure thefe peopTe have ammd to poifon all t'lC world. ' his man’s cafe isnot the fame replied Almodeo : he '.vas itlzed yef-terday, and is hkewife claimed bv the inquifition. Iwill in a few words relate to you the iubjedt of hiscommitment.An old loldier by his cr urage or rather patience,having mouhtrcl to >ho poll of f rjeant in his com¬pany, c. me to raife recruits in this city He en¬quired fer a lo ’ein-j at an inn. where he was an-fwered, tint they had indeed empty rooms hut thatthey could not recommend any of them to him, be-caufe the hou'e was haunt-d by a fpir.t, whichtreated all Grangers very ill th it were raSh enoughto lodge tm re Tnis did no at all bau k oil- f r-jea:u. Put. me in what chamber you pleafe, it id hed'> bet give me a candle, win , pipes an 1 t bacco ;am! as for the ip rit never trouble youVfelf about it :g! oils have a r dpecl for men of war who are grownold in- the ferries.As lie ieemed fo reiolute, he was fnewn into achitn' e', where all that he detired was brought to ,him lie fell .to diinking and fmoking till mid-i.ight and no ipirit had yet dihurbed the profoundfiience that reigned in the houfe : one would haveimagined he feared this newgut.il ; hut betwixt oneat d two, the ftrjeant ail of a fudden, heard a terriblermHe, like the ra tling of old iron, and immediatelylaw enuring his chamber an apparition, clothed inblack, and laden all around ih iron chains Ourfmcker net in the lea ft affrighted at this fight', drewhis twerd, advanced tew arcs the ipirit, and wkh thefiat fide of it gave him a very fevere blow on thehead.f is ;The apparition, not much ufei to mfet with fuchbold guefls, cried*nut, and perceiving the foldier go¬ing to begin again with him, he mod: humblv p o-ftrated himfelf at his feet. Mr Serjear^jjaid he, forGotPrfake, do not give me any more; but havemercy on a poor devil, that Cafts himfelf at yourfeet. I conjure you by St Jah;«s, who, as you are,was a great foldier. If you are willing tc fave yourlife, anAvered the foldier, you mud toil me who youare, and fpeak without the le-ti prevarica ion, orelfe this moment l cut yeti down the middle, asyour kniglvs of ok! were ufed to ferve the giantsthey encountered At'hefe words, tire ghod land¬ing v'bat fort of a man he had to do with, rdblvedto own all.I am the principal fervanfof this inn,replied thefpirit, my name is GuUienro: I am in love with rnymafter’s only daughter, and Ihe does not diflifce me:but the father and mother having a better nn’ch inview in b'dcr to comp-1 them to make me theirfon hi-law, the gi 1 and I have agreed that I dial!,every night aft the p .rt which I now do. 1 wrapmyfelf in a long b’ack cloak, and the j :ck chainabout mv neck thus equipt, I rur> up and downthe boufe, from t'-e cellar to the garret, and make'all the noife which you have heard. When I amat my mafter arid miftrefs’ chamber door, 1 IVdp?.r,cl erv out Do not hope that l w.;U ever let youreft, till you marry Jumna to GuiUeroao your upperDrawer.After having pronounced thefe words with ahoarfe broken voice, I continue my noife, and a' awindow enter the c’.ofet, where Juanna lies alone, togive her an account cf what I have done. Mr Ser¬jeant, continued Guillermo, you fee I have told youthe whole truth ; I know that after this confellionyon may ruin m ■ by difeovering it to mv mafter;but if you pleafe to ferve, inftead of undoing me, Ifwear that my acknowledgments——You *are a( *9 j ;very fine 4>erfon, Mr Guillermo, faid the foldier.15Tou propofe to me to lupport a trick : It is a feriousaffair, which requires mature deliberation : but thet.eonfequences hmxy me on. Go, continue your noifej^ive your account to Juanna, and I will take careff jthe reft. ,Accordingly next morning he fa'd to his landlordand landlady, l have feen the fpi it, and • havetalked with it. It is a very honeft Lllow. i am,laid he, the great great grandfather of the msfter ofthis houf.! 1 had a daughter whom l proihifec! tothe father df the grandfather of this drawer How¬ever, neghflirg the word l had given h'm, I mar¬ried her to another, and died foon after and everfinte am tormented as th punilhment of my per¬jury, and fhali never be a reft till one cf my familyfhall m-nrry one of Guillermo’s ; and it is for thisreafon I walk hue every night Yet is to no pur-p fe that l bid them marry Joanna to tbe’r headdrawer the fan of my grand fen and his wife turnthe deaf eaf to all I can f y • But tell them if youpleafe, Mr Serjeant that if they do not immediat-lycomply with my defires, l ii a 1 p oceed ro action andwj:1 torment them bath in an extraordinary manner.The holt,, being filly enough was terrified at thisdi'courfe ; but the hofttls, yet more filly than herhtifband, faneving that the ip hit was always at heriieels confenttd to the match, and Guillermo mar¬ried Juanna the next day and fee up in another partof the town. Serjeant Qucbramador did not fail tovifit him often ■. and was trea ed with as much wineas he cared for This fo pleafeJ the foldi-sr thathe brought thither not only ids filends, but lifted hismen-there, and made ail his recruits drunk .Bn. at laft Guillermo, gr wa weary of fatiatingfucii a ert-w of drunk .rdf, told the f Idler his mind ;v ho, vvi'hout ever thinking diat he had f-xceeded theagreement, was fo unjuft as to call Guillermo, littleungratful rafeal. The heft anfwered j the ferjeant( *0 )replied ; and the dialogue ended-with fevefal ftrokeswith the flat fide of the fivVord, H'hich Guiikrmo re-tt'ved ; Several perfons pafiing by took the vin‘-rer’s part; the (erjemt v/oundcd three or four, butw ;s (uddenly f dlen on by a crowd of Alguazi'*. who Ifeiztd him as a drfiurber cf the public peace, |and carried idm to prifcn. He there dec’ared all jthat I have told y n an;' upon th;s diipoficion theofficers have ado feizeJ Guillermo: thefatheV in lavrequires the annuHing of the marriage: and theholy office, being informed th t Gnill rmo is rich,have thought fit to take cognizance cf it.Cut why IV ul i we dwell fo long on this melan¬choly group Come [V n Cleofas. my confinement Ihas tired me of Madrid, I will inflan!ly tranfp' t |you to Paris, where fliU, amid all the calamities andconfuJion of war and civil broils, t! e f. m- f ivolityand vo'uptnouf'n'.fs r i.m ptramou t Don C eotr.srejoiced at the propaiah and feiziog d nodeo bythe c^oak in an iiiltmt found himtelt oh the top ofthe i‘a ais Poy.ce. What mean thefe joy- us e.flu-fl ns of the crowd, fays Zambuilo and the illumin-a i ns 1 feet Surely they are on account of famegreat advantages obtained over their cnenves tireEnghfh or Auftriaas. Qiiite the contrary, ( del thedevil, Inch a fucccflion of calamities h^ve b. fallenFrsnce fince the con mer,cement of this var, owingto the weak efforts of he ft tends of the unforlunateMon at ch to eflablifh royalty; tlte unexampled cruel¬ties of thole ambitiovs'deaiccrats who hav’, oreaft-r another, connt itted the mod f tnguinary andhclldh brutalities, to raife themfr.lvr s to cordtquenccin rfie bate and retain tbcmfelves fo ; and more foby the imptefiion tl'eir ertmies formerly made cntliem, although France at LA was fo iucefifufas totrivc Inm into the very bofrm cf Germany ando nc4ud to l ave dilated to the Emperor retnrs cfpeace at Vf nna; but fio uncertain is war, thattheir ft nr its are now driven dcfeiiceltis bcfojd the( 21 )Auilrians, and thefe rejoicings are on account ofoffers on the put offEng'.and to mike peace withthem, which they think will terminate their miferies,Tt wi1! pediaps amule you, if l recount the mo¬tives tha; produced this war, and give you a fketchof the lives of fom:* of thofe bold Ipirits, who fhonein their Convention and fo fully left themfeives tothe whole bait of heir Lnclinations without fcruple.When he d lheiTed fate of the Finances of Francehad exhaufted all the attempts of their nobleft mini-ffers ano n lancicrs to tllabli‘1) them (o as to lupportthe ordinary exp nces, and that cloud of pendonirsthat were fupported by the nation, who could onlyboaft of having provided for the exceffes of the mi-n Iters of the King, and the mirmidons of Court.Louis XVL f mad h'mftif neceflitated to call anjifLmbly of the ftates of the nation to confult aboutand adopt fuen me dure3 as would lave the countryfrern ruin. Wo fooner were they met, no foonerhad they examined into the evrs, thin the glaringIahules of the court led them to think of renovatingthe whole lylh •<. A thorough change of the C >n-flituiion and government of the country, and cur-I tailing the power of the king was the confequence.A war with P.ufFu and the Empert r enlued, andthe fir ft campamn endc in the difaflrous retreat of| the allied armies from France. Inflated ivith this| fucceis the Convention beg=tn to pafs the mofl; ar-! ro,-ant and fr difh decrees; and promifing frater-1 mzation to ail who Ihould feel any faults with tiieir| Governments, their gafeonadieg was to this purpofe :I We are twenty five'millions of Frenchmen, and|. confequentiy have 50 millions of hands, armed withy Fwords and po;gri-.rds, let us fend fix millions of menu to Germany, three millions to Italy and Spain;three millions to Rullia and the north of Europe—I hut firfl, to get money to pay our brothers and fillers| going abroad, letois fend four millions to England|j to take pofiefiion of the bank of London. Xhe( 22 )nine millions remaining, are fufficient to cultivatethe country, and to deftroy Louis XVI. liis family,and all other conftituted authorities as ariiiocratical.'Let us do this and all Europe in a year, will ac¬knowledge the fcvereignty of the French people.Dumourier began to fulfil their Quixotic crufades.After a fuccefsful winter campaign in Belgia heturned his victorious arms towards Holland ; andhad it not been for the intervention of Britain, thatn.iierable and ungrateful country would two yearsfooner have fupinely fubmitt«d to the yoke of the ,French. Shame and repuife were the confequ.ences of, Dumourkr’s temerity. But as it would fatigueyou with going over all the circumftances of thewar, l fhail now give you fomc idea of the charac¬ters ofthefe men. „And firft, DUMOURIER b'cgan his career as afpyin England in the year 1780, where he pretend¬ed to be a^perfccuted ckrgrm’n exiled for havingpublifhed a book entitled, The folly of France aflill-ing the rebels. Thus he cajoled the Britifh Govern¬ment, and rendered his countiy Tc.b fervice that hewas made commandant cf Cherbourg ; at the re¬volution he worked himlelf into the favour of the un¬fortunate king ; was railed to the chief commandof the army ; and when a difpute hard arifen betwixthim and feme of his afibciates who thought them-felves deprived of a due flure of the fpoiis—to eludethe guilotine he efcaped to Switzerland.THE DUKE OF ORLEANS, in the earlieftpart of his life choie the mofl; notorious eharaiursfor debauchery an(T irreligion as his aflbeiates. Inthis glorious courfe he foon cutftripped the mofl ex¬perienced I o lead ingeiaouus youth from the pathsof virtue into the ftream of vice, to triumph in theruin of innocence, is a refinement in wickednefs,which was flattering to the ambition, and delightfulto the heart of the Duke of Orleans.The implacable htred he has manifefted 3%ainft_( 23 )he King, his couGn, ^and the virulence with whiche joined the favage Perfecutors of his queen ori-inate thus. When the beautiful Marie Antoinettevas (hining in all the fplendour of united attractions,imr gallant made a proffer to her of his perfon, whichihe rejected with contempt, and even reported it toner liufband, who upbraided him with his bafenefs.This virtuous nobleman, to gain a feat in the con¬tention, changed his name to that of Mr. Equality ;vas one of the moft forward to condemn his king ;i.nd at lad, by the jealoufy of Robcfpierre, met thatlate he fo juftly meritedROBESPIERRE, when deputed to the Nationall&ffembly, was provided with a coat upon the occa-lon, by an old benefaftor; but behold the rigidlirtues of a republican ! He foon inhabited a fplen-5 id hotel in the capital, appeared jo glittering equi-Jages, and revelled in banquets and entertainments.Oh may a'l thefe who pant for reform, in theirdifferent countries be enamoured with fuch thoughtsF’ rioting on the ruin df their fuperiors; and pantingith glorious ardour for fuca dignities in the ftate asjave adorned the bloody brows of this affaflin behur-Id on to commit fuch crimes againtt every govern-i tent, as will produce the fame glorious work fordevils as this mercilefs ambitious wretch hathjommitted here. Not a fpark of love for his coun-y entered the breaft of this tyger ; but to fix him-If in his place, and to add to his revelling ufedmflantly, on condemning crowds.to tfie guillotinepronounce, “A little more blood does no harm.”DAN TON, the former colleague and afliftant ofobefpierre was the ion of a butcher who bred himbe a furgeon. He was fo mean and cringing toten in power, the nebihty and princes that he gotl pointed lurgeon extraordinary to the Count d* Aj>s, and fo unlucky was he in Idling pa> ienis, thatany page or iomeftic odended the count he wasto threaten to delifer them to be cured( 24 )fay Dan'on. So mean was this wretch that he wouldcards the horfes who hefaid had the happinefs to bethe favourites of the Count or Countefs ; but noloonerwere thev unable to ferve him, than hetranf-ferred his worfhip to the mob, and thus continuedto co-operate with R^bdpierre in rivettingthe chainsof tyr nny on the nation, till jealoafy brought him jto receive what he merited , and foon after Robe-Ipje-re met the fate that he had brought on him andthonfands.Xhefe have only mfde way fora new lenes of ty¬rants who continue to delude this volatile unthinkingpeople with the names cf Liberty and Freedom,whereas they have only changed from the defpotifmof one tyrant to that of Five hundred.—Here the Devil upon Two Sticks ftopt fhort.He was fuddeniy taken with a friflbn, and changedcolour.What is the matter, Did (he ftudent, what ex'ra-ordinary motion makes you drake, and ftop fhort ?/th Signior Leandro, cried the daearon with a trem¬bling voice, how unfortunate am 1? the conjurer,who kept me in the bo.tie in his laboratory hasfound 1 am flown He is going to recal me by firchforcible conjurations as I cannot refift. What a mor-tificaflcn is this to me •, faid Don Cleofas, quite fof-!tened with compaflion ! and wh~t a lofs air> I goingto fufFer! For now I much fear we are goingto part for ever. I do not think fo, anfwered Af-nrodeo The magician may want my affiflance,and if I have the good fortune toolo him any ferviceperhaps out of gratitude, he’may give me my liber¬ty. If that fhould happen, as I hope, depend uponit I will foon he with ycu, upon condition that youreveal to no foul living what has this night paiFedbetween us; for iheuid you be ft indifereet as to im¬part it to any body, I tell you before hand, you willnever fee me more.FINIS.