mmymmmmwmmmmmmiSTORYS OFBEWITCHED FIDDLER, :PERILOUS SITUATION,. ((cmmar*IO 8YHOT3g .HHataai’i aaKDTiwaa,VJOITATTTI3 3TJOJIH5H■I.MA3HQ g MOTO^IJiaHT^H KHOlg: WOOaAvlf).^HSvUaeaooa ^>nr wi umiv=<n>. .^nonxnmiMTHEBEWITCHED FIDDLER.Matthew Wilmart was the best fiddler inthe city1 of Hesdin. There was no villageifbr ten miles round, where they would haveenjoyed their dancing, if any one butMatthew Wilmart fingered the violin forthem. He was a personage, consequently,of no little importance. He sat down withI the relations at marriage feasts; and theI bride, who waited upon the guests duringthe repast, according to a custom of the!country, was always sure to give the titbitsto Matthew. When he opened his lips, alllistened to him, for ifiere was nobody betterat'telling a story or singing 9 song.One winter night, there was a marriage\ t Auffin. The dancing had been continuedto a late hour, and if was already past mid¬night, when Matthew threw his violin overhis shoulder, and announced his attention 01taking leave.—They used every effort toJirevau upon him to remain.- ‘ Stay, father Mathew,’ they say, ‘ thewind is north-east, and it is cold enough tosplit the' very stones. The forest of • H e?4din, which you must pass through, has a badname. It is haunted by wolves and robbers,not to mention the sorcerers who meet there.‘ I have a good goblet of wine in me,said the old man, i a fine fur cloak on myshoulders, and a good iron club in my hand.With all these, I defy the cold, wolves, androbbers. As to wizards and devils, if Imeet any, they shall dance to the sound oimy violin. They will tell me if the musi¬cians in hell play a better fiddle than oldMatthew Wilmart.’In finishing these words, which made theyoung people laugh, and the old men shaketheir heads in displeasure, he enveloped him¬self in his cloak, and set out at a firm pacenn the jv.th which led through the forest toHesdin.He had not been more than a quarter ofan hour on his way, when the sky, just beforeblue and starry, was suddenly covered withan immense cloud. The darkness becamefrightful. Our fiddler began to regret thathe refused a good bed at Auffin. But itwas too late to retrace his steps. Besides,after his bravadoes, they would not fail tolaugh at him for his want of courage. Hecontinued his course. To add to his chagrin,he discovered that he had lost the path.What was to be done. To advance wasonly to lopse his way still more effectually.(t ,_.VrV 5To wrap himself in his cloak and lie downat the foot of a tree was altogether unsafe;the wolves would inevitably make a mealof him; though, if he escaped them he wouldperish of cold. His two hands resting onhis stall’, he remained some minutes in apainful anxiety, when a light suddenly ap¬peared in the distance. ‘ It comes from somewood-cutters’ cottage,’ said he, ‘God bepraised!’ He was on the point of directinghis steps towards it, but it had vanished.The anger of the fiddler knew no bounds.He struck the earth with his staff, and utteredi the most shocking blasphemies. His lipsi were still pronouncing them, when the light) re-appeared.It was with the greatest difficulty, andi after much time, that Matthew arrived at1 the spot from which the light had first pro¬ceeded. His surprise was extreme on findingthere a magnificent chateau of which hehad never before heard. Brilliant musicwas resouriding from all parts of it, and thedancers who were passing every momentbefore the windows, cast their dark and rapidshadows upon the curtains, which a reddishligHt rendered transparent.He went round and round this immensebuilding several times to find an entrance,but in vain. He had given it up in despair,sounded a horn. A drawfmdjje whichMatthew had not before observed, was im¬mediately let down, and our fiddler, follow¬ing the old man, entered the mansion.[e was astonished to fir 1 1 1were taking part in a splendid repast; otherswere playing at games of chance; but thegreatest number were dancing.Matthew advanced with boldness to a manof. elevated stature, whom he recognised asijia&'ter of the mansion, by the manner whiclihe: gave out his orders, and the respect w hicliwas generally paid to him. ‘ Aj y lordgovernor, ’ said he to him. 41 am a poor fiddlerwin* has been lost in the woods. Condescendto allow me to pass the night in a corner olj>aur mansion, and I will depart to-morrow4 break °f day*’ The personage whoin;Matthew addressed answered only* with asijdie, and a sign of assent. At the order of.his master, a page took the violin from thefiddler, and attached it to one of the goldeniitfdlfc which glittered, among the rich drap*efjies in the hall. Whilst occupied with thisService, Uie page grinned with an infernalgrin, and the part of the instrument whichhis fingers touched grew black as if itJ had,been burned.. M^tew nqw began to w^lk afiout qn afi;sVfej m PlftTS 'inconceivable multitude7be found himself, but he in vain endeavouredto recognise any of the strange people -by*ivhom he was surrounded. Every time thatbe fixed his eyes upon any one of them, asort of thin mist shrouded his face, and baf¬fled the old man’s curiosity. While he wasseeking to account for this strange circum¬stance, he perceived a bass-viol hanging up}f such exquisite beauty that he thought heshould like to try his hand upon it, and dis¬play his skill to the other fiddlers. Raisingus eyes to find the staircase leading to theirgallery, what was his affright to recognise[unong them old Barnabas Matassart, whorad been dead 30 years, and had givendm his first lessons on the violin. "HolyVirgin,’ he cried, ‘have pity on me!' Athe same moment, musicians, daacer:andchateau, all disappeared before his eyt s.On the next day, the inhabitants of A uflin,who more prudent than the fiddler, haddelayed their departure till morning, foundfire old man extended at length at the footif a gibbet, with a white fiddlestick in hisband.b ‘Jfother Matthews,’ says one of them,‘ has chosen rather a queer place to sleep in.’‘And a still queerer nail to hang his fiddlein,’ answered another, ‘his violin and boware both strung on the toe of a hangedman.tefnovr e^dl b; d i fiioddgion d8 * *‘ He is not afraid that the carcase would becold ?’ added a third. ‘ The old man hascovered his dry shoulders ■with his own cloak.!‘He is a prudent fellow, old fatherMatthew,’ said a fourth, who was trying tobring the old musician tolife; ‘ Avhyhecarriedtwo fiddles with him, so that if he broke onelie should have another.’When Matthew returned to himself by dintif the labours of the good folks about him,he attributed every thing to the cold, andtook care not to say a single word of the in¬fernal visions which had appeared to him.But on entering his cottage, he carefullyexamined the instrument of which he had)become possessed in so strange a manner. Athrill oi ’ horror was the result of this examin¬ation. The fiddle was nothing more thanthe bor e of a dead man, wrought with ex¬quisite skill; and he read upon its rich silverornam nts the name of an inhabitant ofHesdin, who passed there as a sorcerer and1a wizard.When the evening shades gathered, herepaired to the house of this ill-famedman:—‘ Friend,’ said he, with a low salutation,;4 there is a fiddle which belongs to you, Ibelieve. 1 have accidently found it, andthought I would bring it back to you. *His neighbour grew pale at these words,9id btood liir a moments in astonishmenttijvithout uttering a word.' Oh! oh! master Matthew,’ he at lengthinttered, ‘ you have discovered strangeings during the past night, and a word(from you might do me much mischief.’i ‘ God forbid, then, friend, that I shouldlitter it’You are a brave man, Matthew, but youust keep your tongue well. If they burnne alive as they certainly will if they findnit half of what you know, it will go hardith you friend Matthew.'Matthew rose to go, but the owner of thejtrange fiddle stopped him, and, putting hisuouth to his ear, muttered in a low voice—Neighbour, tell me your enemies; I willlend a plague among their cattle this veryight; or I will devise some means to getlou entirely rid of them.’I ‘I have no enemies, neighbour, and God|brbid that I shoidd wish ill to any one.’' In what manner, then, can I be useful||o you ?’£ In nothing,’ replied our fiddler, who wasn a hurry to be gone; 1 in nothing, neigh-loour. I consider myself lucky in being ableto restore to you so fine a fiddle.’‘ A beautiful fiddle to be sure. But,Neighbour Matthew, I must make you somearesenk’10f Give him this piii’se : .)ut of it asmuch as you will, and as pftca as you will,and there will yet he six livres lett in it.’These words are spoken by a man of sin¬ister aspect, who certainly was not in thesorcerer’s cabinet when Matthew arrived.How had he entered ? It was impossible te 1comprehend, for the doors had all beencarefully closed by die master of the house,that none might hear his conversation withMatthew.(It is some of, the devil’s handy work, cried*the fiddler, ‘ and I will not risk my salva¬tion by accepting it’‘ It.is a talisman,’ replied the other, ‘a1talisman which a Christian can use without"fear.’ In pronouncing the word Christian,''a shudder ran over all his limbs.(If this purse is the work Of the devil,then I ain damned,’ added he with a bittersmile.Matthew’, half convinced, yielded to thetemptafion of becoming possessor of such Sitreasure.He had recourse so frequently to the wort*’derful purse, that he became in a short time?,’master of a pretty house, and live^ in a#splendid a style as the richest citizen inHesdin.Every day were feasts and fetes withodtr lend.—He continued however to play at wedij din^fs, but he had a guod mUle olfi; to ride on, and a varlet to caity ms fiddlkThis new manner of life of the fiddleroccasioned a great deal of astonishment in■! the town of Hesdin, and gave rise to variHjissurmises. The most general belief was thati Matthew had discovered a hidden treasure.Now Matthew had four nephews, rakiih• young men, whom he had never assisted oh: account of their ill conduct. They said oneIi day among themselves, 4 Our uncle Matthewhas become rich, and we shall inherit all hiswealth.’ They understood each other, andthey all went out- with weapons, to watchfor Matthew at a crossway .in the woods,where they knew he would pass that night.The fiddler could not avoid his fate.Four arrows pierced the old man, while hisr more fortunate varlet escaped.The four brothers, without .tm&king oni| this witniSr their crim#, tan towardsthe carcass for the purpose of despoiling it.They were prevented by a man of sinisterJ aspect, who rushed upon the body, took fromit a little purse, and ran away crying,‘ Thus much good do my gifts !’ A bitteri smile followed these words.While the assassins were standing dumbwith horror, they were suddenly surroundedby the sheriff and other officers of justice.I Matthew’s varlet had met them in his flight,12and returned with them to arrest ti.e assas¬sins of his master.Justice was not slow in following theproper proof of the crime. The sheriff hadthem all hung on the tree behind whichthey concealed themselves to commit themurder. This circumstance has given thespot the name which it still bears.—TheCrossway Of The Four Brothers.haA PERILOUS SITUATION,I sat in the cuddy, watching the storm,till past eight o’clock, when a flash whichilluminated the whole hemisphere, and was: accompanied with loud cracking, and a: tremendous noise, struck the ship, and killed,upon the spot, two of the seamen on the fbre-: castle. I ran to the door to ascertain the eflectsof the stroke, and heard the seccond mate,i who was between decks, cry out, ‘Fire in(the hold! fire below !’ The cargo had takenfire from the electric fluid. The scene whichI followed exceeds all description; it was onel that can never be forgotten by any who wit-i nessed it.In a moment all hands were on deck;; buckets were supplied in abundance; thepumps were manned and leaked, that thewater might be discharged on the burningcargo; passengers and crew were all on thealert: I threw off my boatcloak, which 1I had procured by rushing below through thesmoke into my cabin, and assisted at thepumps. When the hatches were taken off,|: to allow of water being poured into the hold,! flames and clouds of smoke issued forth as14from a furnace, increasing every instant inheat and (density. It was soon found thatall exertion was in vain—the vessel mustperish!From the pumps we ran to the boats; thegig hung over the larboard quarter, so. as t >bfe lowered in a moment; but wo shouldhave lost its valuable services, had not a gen¬tleman threatened to send a bullet throughthe head of tile carpenter, who, insane with,terror had brought a hatchet to cut the ropesand drop it at once into the sea. The yawl,a larger boat, was our great difficulty; ifwas turned, keel upwards, over the longboat, to serve as a roof to the live stockkept in the latter. Many attempts weremade, in vain, to raise it from its situatWs;f4ie long boat was already on fire, by. theflames bursting from the main hold. 1climbed into it (without feeling that, in doingwiy I broke my shins severely) to give myassistance.; and wdien we were just ready todespair, the yawl eased and rose, no piieknew how, and was over the side and in thewater, more quickly, the sailors said, thanthey had ever before seen it done.Captain Dacre had already affirmed, inanswer to my inquires, that the two boa^scould not carry all the ship’s company, pas¬sengers and crew : and under other circum¬stances, we should not have dared to tryI them; but the trial must now be made.The two ladies, one of whom had to be11 hurried from her bed, where she had retired: il for the night, were first put safely into, thi| yawl; some other passengers and myself,l| with part of the crew, followed, and purif weight sank it nearly to the water’s edge;[ I the captain and others entered the siiiaUeri boat and sufficiently filled it, leaving ,thevessel writh honourable reluctance; while theill first mate, Mr Ibbetson, gallantly regainedi.J on board to the last, suggesting the,, bestn1 arrangements, and assisting to hand ffi nsi ‘ any article that could be got at the moment,i that might .be useful to us in. the extremei perils we were about to encounter.Many of the party having retired to theirI hammocks before the electric fluid Strucki the vessel, were half naked; but were supr| plied with trowsers and jackets, by those! seamen who had been on the watch; who,in consequence of the heavy rain, had easedthemselves in double or treble their usualquantity of clothing. My own dress wasmerely a nankeen jacket and trowsers, ashirt and neckcloth. I had lost my hat inassisting to, get out the boat,i We happily succeeded in bringing awaytwo compasses from the binnacle, and afew candels from the cuddy table, , one ofthem lighted; one bottle of wine and ano-Ifither of porter were handed to us, with thetable-cloth and a knife, which proved veryuseful; but the fire raged so fiercely in thebody of the vessel, that neither bread norwater could be come at.It was now about nine o’clock : the rainpoured in torrents : the lightning continuedto stream from one side of the heavens toche other, one moment dazzling us by itsglare, and the next leaving us in darkness,relieved only by the red flames of the conflagration, from which we were trying to escape.Our first object was to get clear of thevessel, lest she should explode and overwhelmus. But to our great distress we discoveredthat the yawl had no rudder, and that in thetwo boats we had only three oars, all exer¬tions to obtain more from the ship havingproved unsuccessful. From the gig, whichhad a rudder, they gave us a rope’s end tokeep us in tow; and by means of a fewspars, found at the bottom of the boat, weassisted in moving ourselves slowly throughthe water. Providentially the sea was verystill, or our boats would have swamped andwe must have perished. There was alsovery little wind, but it sometimes changed,and assisted by the prevailing current, urgedforward the burning ship; for the sads,being drenched with rain, did not easilytake fire. Our situation, therefore, was for17tome time exceedingly perilous. The vesselneared us more than once, and seemed tothreaten to involve us in its own destruction.The cargo, consisting chiefly of hams^: ^ cheeses, ale, porter, spirits, and other thingsequally combustible, burned with violencei and rapidity, and the flames rose to ani amazing height.We succeeded in encreasing the distanceI between us and the vessel; directing ourcourse towards land, by help of the com-| passes, which we could see by the light ofII the candles we had with us. About ten] ( o’clock, we saw the masts go overboard, and1 the sides of the vessel seemed to be burnt.1 down to the water’s edge. The spectacler was awfully grand, even contemplated ab-: stractedly from a recollection of our ownj circumstances. The destruction, by fire, ofthe animals on board, dogs, sheep, &c., atanother time would have excited our deepestcommisseration, but, at present, the totalloss of property, the awfully sudden, death ofthe seamen, our own narrow escape, and thegreat probabilities, even yet, that we shouldnever again see the light of day, or set ourfeet on solid ground, seemed to absord ourfaculties and feelings: for some time thesilence was scarcely broken, and I doubt not,that many, like myself, were engaged inthoughts most suitable to immortal beings18on the brink of eternity—in thankfulnessand in prayer.'the number of persons in the two boatswas forty-eight; and all, witli the excep¬tion of the two ladies, who, I must observe,bore these awful circumstances with extra¬ordinary fortitude, took jt in turns to workat the oars and paddles. After some time,to our great relief, the rain ceased ; thelabour of bailing water from the boats wasconsiderably diminished; we hailed eachother frequently, during the night, and theHonest tars, true ‘hearts of oak,’occasionallygive a simultaneous ‘hurra,’ to cheer eachother, and to keep up oiir spirits.The Tanjore must have risen in thewater, as it gradually consumed; we sawit burning the whole night, and at day¬break comd distinguish a columh of smokearising from it, which, however, soonceased, and we saw and heard no more ofour favourite ship. When the sun rose, wecould clearly discern land a-head; the sightof it filled us with grateful joy and nervedus with fresh vigour.JOHN HETHERINGTON’SVcDREAM.In a certain small town in the south ofScotland there lived, about three years ago,a very respectable tailor, of the name ofJohn Hetherington—that is to say, Johnwore well with the world; but, like tooimany of his craft, he was sorely addictedI to cabbaging. Not a coat could he make,not a pan- of trowsers could he cut out, nota waistcoat could he stitch up, but he musthave a patch of this, that, and t’other, wereit fjbr no other purpose but just to serve as abit of a memorial. One very warm evening,towards the end of August, 1826, John had,gope, to bed rather earlier than usual, but, i not withput having laid in a very good shareof a very tasty Welsh rabbit, which saidrabbit being- composed of about a pound ofI tough oheese^ of course fimnished the poor| tailor after he had fairly tumbled over intothe land of Nod, with something of a verycurious Welsh rabbit vision. It suddenlystruck him that, this life, with all its cares andi anxieties, was over with him; that the20finishing stitch had been put to the greatwork of life, and the thread of his existencecut through. In the other world, to hismisfortune, he found things not moving socomfortably as he would have wished, andthe Old Gentleman with the short hornsand the long tail, rigged out in his best suit:of black, was the first friend he forgatheredwith after passing the border. 1 There’s afine morning,’ said the wily old dog, ‘ howdo you find yourself after long travel?’‘ No that weel,’ stammered out the halfdead son of a goose, ( no that weel, andI dinna think, all things considered, it wouldbenefit me much to be found in such com¬pany—-no offence to your Reverence,’ as hesaw his new friend’s collar rise, ‘ no offenceto your Reverence, I trust, but if I maybe so bold, I would thank you to tell me thereason of my being here; and, above all,who’s to be thankit for the honour of an in¬troduction to your Reverence ?’ ‘ That youwill know shortly, friend—nay, John Hether-ington, for you see I know you;’ and takinga large parcel from below his left arm, heformnenced to unroll it, and to the astonish¬ment of poor John, unfolded a long#sheet Iof patchwork, in which were found scraps’of every hue—a web of many colours—affneatly stitched together; and in the middle;by way of a set off, a large bit of most ex-11 21k cellent blue cloth, which had been cabbagedj’that very morning from a prime piece winch: he had got into Ins hands for the purpose of) making a maniage coat for his neighbour,i the blacksmith. ‘Was all this stuff got. fairly and honestly, good man,’ said the Old! Gentleman, with a sneer quite worthy ofi''Beelzebub. ‘ I suppose you will be able toi recognise some of these old bits; what thinkI you now of that piece in the middle whichi your eyes are fixed on—cabbaged no fartheri. back than this morning? Come along,. my old boy, come along; you are a trueson of your old father, I see, and I will;] furnish you with as warm winter quarters asyou ever enjoyed when you was half stewedwith your old maiden-aunt, at the top of. fifteen pair of stairs in the High Street ofEdinburgh, when serving your apprentice-ii ship with Dick Mouleypouches. ’ A coldsweet broke over the poor tailor, and he feltas if he could have sunk snugly into the;j earth, if it had only had the goodness to'I j open at that moment for his especial accom-"] modation, when he saw the long bony armf| stretched out, with its sharp eagle claws, toclutch him : he made a sharp bolt,back, antii giving vent to his feelings in a loud and■ long howl, which lung horribly in his earsf long after opening his eyes, he found himselfi sprawling in the middle of his wooden floor,22with all the bedclothes tambled above iiiiIt ras the first breaking out of a fine mom-ing; the sun was rising, and all naturelooked fresh and fair; but poor John was atUje point of death, with sheer bodily fear andtrembling, so that to get to bed again, andto sleep, would have been martyrdom; there-lore he hulled oil his clothes, and walkedout ‘ to snuff the caller air,’ and muse overhis wonderful dream. The more he thoughtof it, the more he saw the necessity of re¬forming his mode of life; and, before fin¬ishing his stroll, he was an altered man, andjiad made up his mind never more to cabbagean inch of cloth; and, by walking cir¬cumspect and just, he trusted that his pastoffences might be wiped out, and that thewonderful web of many colours should nomore be brought up as evidence against him.,To make him the more secure in the eventof forgetfulness in the hour of temptation,hjs foreman was let into the great secret,Hnd nad orders at all times to rub up his re-memberance when there was any thing goocgbihg, which he used to do by the laconicphrase of—‘ Master, mind the sheet!’A year passed over, and the terror of th>dream being yet fresh in his memory, J ohn’transactions were strictly honest He couldcut opt with somewhat more considerahl* 'ease, apd had lost a good deal i't kuack <i cutting out the sly Spiece at the corner! But, alas! for the stability of all human| resolutions, oiir friend Was sorely tempted,i j and how he stood we shall soon see: He had1 got to hand a beautiful piece of red cloth,:| for what purpose I know not, whether for:! the coat of a field officer, or the back of arox hunter, but a prime piece of cloth thatwas; he turned it over to this side, and backI to that, viewed it in all lights and shades,r rubbed it against the gram, and found itfaultless; he had never seen such a finei piece of cloth before; scissors had neveri before cut such immaculate stuff, fixedhis eye wistfully on a tempting corner, lookedi up, and his foreman John was staringI firmly in his face: he had read his thoughts.‘ Master, mind the sheet!’ solemnly ejac-ii ulated John. i Fm just swithering, John ;!! I’m just swithering: now when I mind,ii their wasna a piece of red cloth in all thesheet; and mair by token, there was a bitgap at one of the corners; now, Fm justS thinking, since it maun be that all these biti! Odds and ends are to be evidence against mewhen I come to the lang count, it would bebetter to snick a bit aff the corner here; andthat you see, John, will fill all deficiencies,and mak the shee£, since it maun appear' against me, evidence, John, without aflaw!’24ANECDOTE.Dougal Graham, author of a well knownmetrical history of the rebellion in 1745,being candidate for the place of town bell¬man in the city of Glasgow, was desired tocall “ Gude fresh herrings new come in alfhe Broomielaw,” (it not being the seasor!' f herrings), Dougal added,“ But, indeed, my friends, it’s a’ a blaeflum,“ For the herrings no catch’d, an’ the boat’s no come,’which procured for Dougal the situation.Dougal was a kind of Scotch TEsop, hhad a large humph on one of his shouldersand like his prototype, had wit, Calling iithe street of the Gallogate, opposite thSaracen’s Head Inn, where several officerof the gallant 42d regiment were diningat the close of the American war, some cwhom knew Dougal before they went abroacopening the window, called out, “ Whatthat you’ve got on your back, Dougal ?Knowing what the regiment suffered «*Bunker’s Hill, Dougal replied, u ItBunker’s Hill, do you choose to mount?”FINIS.