CHEAP TRACTS No. 3.oiiderlu! ifiag-asiueOFSTRANGE ADVENTURES,/: SINGULAR OCCLRRLNCKS, AND REMARKADLKDUNFERMLINE :I HINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER.1828.INCIDENTS.Wonderful Magazine.c9HORRIBLE ADVENTURE.At the period when Murat was about to in¬vade Sicily, the Chevalier R~ , Paymaster-General of the Neapolitan forces, was travellingthrough Calabria for the purpose of joining thearmy, having been to Naples to make arrange¬ments for the transmission of a quantity ofspecie. He had sent on his servant before him,to prepare his quarters at the town of , ex¬pecting to arrive there himself by night-fall; but,the day being very sultry, he had loitered on theroad, and, at nine o’clock in the evening, foundthatihe was still at a considerable distance from theproposed end of his journey. He was so muchharassed and fatigued that he determined to putup for the night at the first convenient house.Pie at length entered an old romantic buildingon the road-side, inhabited by a man and a wife,tire former a stout muscular figure, with a swar¬thy countenance almost wholly shrouded in a mass Lof bushy whiskers and mustachoes. The travel- Ller was received with civility ; and, after par¬taking of a hearty supper, was conducted, up a3I crazy old staircase, to his apartment for the: night. Not much fancying the appearance ofthe place, and finding no lock upon his door, heii fixed a chair behind it; and, after priming hispistols, put them carefully under his pillow. Heihad not been long in bed when he heard a noisebelow, as of persons entering the house ; and,some time afterwards, was alarmed by the soundiof a man’s footsteps on the staircase. He theniperceived a light through the crevice of the door,; against which the man gently pressed for ad-jimittance, but finding some resistance, he thrustt open sufficiently to admit his hand, and withi extreme caution removed the chair and enteredhe apartment.The Chevalier then saw his host, with a lampn one hand and a huge knife in the other, ap¬proaching the bed on tiptoe. The Chtvalier(nocked his pistols beneath the bed-clothes, thatjlfie noise of the spring might not be heard.Then the man reached the side of the bed, hefield the light to the Chevalier’s face, who pre-tmded to be in a profound sleep, but contrivedevertheless to steal an occasional glance at his[arfiil host. The man soon turned from him,id, after hanging the lamp on the bed-post,ent to the other end of the room and broughtthe bedside a chair, on which he immediatelyCounted, with the tremendous knife still in hisfind. At the very moment that the Chevalier* as about to start up from the bed and shootflm, the man, in hurried manner, cut severaljiiormous slices from a piece of bacon that wasr —     hanging' ov'ec his bedstead, though it had beenwholly unnoticed before by the agitated traveller.I he host then passed the light before his eyesagain, and left the room in the same cautiousway in which lie had entered it, and, unconscious 1of the danger he had escaped, returned to acrowd of new and hungry guests below stairs,who were, of course, not very sorrow to perceivethat he had savkd his bacon1.>!) ‘inSEVEN HUNDRED POUNDS ACCIDENTALLY \\FOUND.Some time ago, two gentlemen, who had been!left executors to the will of a friend, onexamining the property left by the testator, foundthey could not discharge the legacies by somehuudmls of pounds ; astonished at this circum¬stance, as the deceased had frequently informedthem he would leave more than sufficient foithat purpose, they made the most diligent searchamong his papers, &c. and found a scrap opaper, on which was written “ seven hundredpounds in Till.” This they took in the literssense of it, but as their friend had never been itrade, they thought it singular he should keeisuch a sum of money in a till ; however, the:examined all the apartments carefully, but f \vain, and after repeated attempts to discover itgave over the search. They sold his col lectio* |iof hooks to an eminent bookseller, and paid thlegacies in proportion. The singularity of th !5circumstance occasioned them frequently to con¬verse about it, and they recollected among' thebooks sold there was a folio edition of Tillotson’sSermons. The probability of tins being whatwas alluded to by the word “ Till” on the pieceof paper, made one of them immediately waitupon the bookseller w ho had purchased the books,and ask him if he had the edition of Tiilotsonwhich had been among the books sold to him ?On his reply in the affirmative, and the volumesbeing handed down, the gentleman immediatelypurchased them, and on examining the leavesfound bank notes singularly dispersed in vaiiouspa’-ts of the volumes, to the amount of £700!But what is perhaps no less remarkable, theirooksellef informed him that a gentleman atOxford, reading in his catalogue of this edition,had written to him and desired it miwht he sentto him, which was accordingly done, but the bind¬ing of the books not meeting with (lie gentleman’sapprobation, they had Wen returned, and laidupon his (the bookseller’s) shelves until the daythe notes were found.IFATAL EFFECTS OF EXTRAORDINARY JOY.IIn the year 17379 when a stagnation took place,owing to the war with France, a young man in.. Dunfermline, a flaxrdresser, entered his Majesty'se navy at Bo’ness. Upon Ins arrival at Spithead,i he happened to be put on board the ship ofq Admiral Cochrane, a brave and generous com-hvHnder. T1 ie Admiral, froirt some catise orotlier, took a liking- to the young man, andexalted him step by step, till at last he was pro¬moted to be prize-master of the fleet. In thissituation he accumulated £60,000. This sumwas transmitted to Edinburgh, and deposited inthe royal Bank of Scotland. At the saine timethe flax-dresser wrote to his former employersin Dunfermline, to desire his father to purchasean estate to the amount of the above sum, andas near to his native place as possible. Tbe oldman was sent for, and too hastily acquaintedwith the affluent circumstances of his son. Theeffect was fatal. The sudden tide of joy rushedwith such impetuosity upon him that he stoodmotionless : his eyes expanded, his nostrilsdilate 1, his mouth wide open, like the pictureof horror. At last he fell insensible upon thefloor, never spoke more, and expired in thecourse of a few days.TERROR OE a CITY.In the year 1750, the city of London was great¬ly alarmed by two terrible shocks of an earth¬quake, which happened precisely within a monthof each other. This unusual visitation filled theminds of the affrighted inhabitants with thegreatest dismay and apprehension of anotherperiodical shock, still more destructive than thefirst. This notion was propagated among allranks of people, by a fanatic soldier, who preach-7ed up repentance, and boldly prophesied that thenext shock would take place precisely a monthfrom the last, and totally destroy the cities ofLondon and Westminister. “ The churches,”h says Smollet, “were now crowded with penitentI sinners : the sons of riot and profligacy wereoverawed* info sobriety and decorum. 1 heII streets no longer resounded with execrations, ori: the noise of brutal licentiousness ; and the hand':t| of charity was liberally opened. Many who, inii the beginning, combated these groundless fears! with the weapons of scorn and ridicule, began in-i jsensibly to imbibe the contagion, and felt their!i hearts fail in proportion as the danger approach-bed : even science and philosophy were not proof^against the unaccountable effects of this eommu-imication. In the evening preceding the expee-ited visitation, the open fields that skirt the me-i itropolis were filled with an incredible number ofnpeople, awaiting, in fearful suspence, the fulfil¬lment of this fearful event !”A few years ago, one Brothers predicted inLondon that the world was to end with thejyear 179d> which grave prophecy many respec-Ktable men seriously believed, among whom wasMa certain member of parliament, who, strange toifltell, strenuously defended this fanatic and his! doctrines! Very lately, too, -we heard of apoor man being shot dead by a person in Lon¬don, who mistook him for a ghost, that had forsome time past been terrifying, chasing, and(beating the good people of Hammersmith !Honest John Bull is steady and brave against8his enfcmias ; while a ghost, a conjurer, or a])fophesier, shall make him an arrant cowardand simpleton. -SRVEKE WINTER OF 1740.DatuNO the greatest part of this winter, thej if tor had been grievously afflicted in consequenceof a severe frost, which beo-an at Christmas, andcontinued till the latter end of February. Theriver Thames was covered with such a crust ofice, that a multitude of people dwelled upon it intents, and a great number of booths were erectedfor the entertainment of the populace. Thenavigation was entirely stopped ; the watermenand fishermen were disabled from earning alivelihood; the fruits of the earth were destroyedby the cold, which was so extreme, that manypersons were chiliad to death; and this calamitywas the more deeply felt, as the poor could notafford to supply themselves with coals and fuel,wliffh were advanced in price, in proportion toithe severity and continuance of the frost. Thelower classes of labourers, who worked in thespan air, were now deprived of all means ofsub-fFtenee ; many kinds of manufacture were laidaside, because it was found impracticable to carry,them on. The price of all sorts of provisions-rose almost to a dearth : even water was sold inthe streets of London.In this season of distress, many wretched;families must have perished by cold and hunger,, i9iml not those of opulent fortunes been inspiredfrith a remarkable spirit of compassion and Jm-inanity. Nothing can redound more to trielionour of the English nation, than did those/Instances of benevolence and well-conductedcharity which were then exhibited.A SHOWER OF HERRINGS.\ remarkable, though not unprecedented, occur-itance, happened on M»mday last in the neigh-i touring county of Ross. As Major ForbesMackenzie of Fodderty, in Strathpetfer, wastraversing a field on his farm, he was not a lit-!)le surprised to find a considerable portion of the,ground covered with herring fry, of from three,0 four inches in length. The fish were freshEnd entire, and had no appearance of being droptiy birds—a medium by which they must havedneen bruised and mutilated. The only rationali onjecture that can be formed of the circum¬stance is that the fish were transported thither1 t a wate-spout—a phenomenon that has beforeoccurred in this country, and which is by no,iieans uncommon in tropical climates. Therith of Dingwall lies at the distance of threedies from the place in question ; but no ob-truction occurs between the field and the sea—-te whole is a level strath or plain—and water¬cuts have been known to carry even fartherum this. Major Mack nzie has forwarded amall quantity of the fish to the Secretary of10the Northern Institution. We have just inspec¬ted them, and can assure our readers, that—though the fry would go but a small way to- 1wards satisfying a few hungry gillies—they jwill abundantly gratify the curiosity of everyvisitor.SINGULAR STORY.A strange circumstance occurred at Brest, in ,June 1817 :—A man, in the last stage of adangerous disorder, sent for a priest to give himextreme unction. The priest, after some Iconversation with the man, told him that hecould not give him extreme unction unlesshe surrendered up the lands that he held, andwhich belonged to the Church previous to theRevolution. In vain did the poor man point outthat he had purchased them at a valuation, andhad a large family to bequeath them to ; thepriest told him, if he did not, he would be d dand go to hell! The poor man replied, he would :not give up the land, but take his chance. In 1a few days he died, and was refused the rites ofthe church, or Christian burial, on account of his .having died without receiving extreme unc¬tion ; and the priest told the family that he wascertain of going to hell, and that the devil would jicome that night and take away his body. The jwretched family were dreadfully alarmed, em- itployed an old soldier to sit up all night and watch Ithe corpse, furnishing him with a bottle of wine,t'11; bread and cheese, and a sword to protect himself,f At midnight the door flew open, and in stalkedthree figures dressed so as to appear like devils ;ri they walked round the room to try to intimidate;, the soldier, but the old veteran, who had never) feared to oppose an enemy, was not to be panic-i struck, but broke silence, and accosted them in(these words :—“ You, Mr Devils, if one of youlays a hand upon that body, I will cut it off.”ill After some time, one more courageous than therest seized upon the feet of the c.rpse, andanother took hold of the head : the soldier madea chop at the hand of the first, and nearly cnt: off his arm ; the other he wounded on the shoul¬der ; a scuffle ensued ; but in a short time the:i;devils disappeared, leaving a large quantity ofiblood behind them, which showed that they wereinhuman. The next day the family waited on theIlpraefect, and related to him tins strange circum¬stance, when he sent for the priest who had re-jfused to give extheme unctjon. The priestireturned for answer, that he was unwell, and1>could not attend him ; after several messengerstad been despatched, without success, to informim he must come, a guard of soldiers wasisent, who brought him up, and he proved to bethe very devil whom the old soldier had cutacross the arm !HIGH-LAND FIDELITY AND HOSPITALITY.The Kennedies, two common thieves, took theyoung Pretender under their protection, ami keptihim with faith inviolable, notwithstanding theyknew an immense reward was offered for his head.12TWey often robbed for bis support, and to supplyhim with linen, they surprised the baggage-horses of one of our general officers. Theyfrequently went in disguise to Inverness to buyprovisions for him. At length, a very consi¬derable time after, one of these poor fellows,who had virtue to resist the temptation of thirtythousand pounds, was hanged for stealing a cdwvalue thirty shillings.A Gentleman travelling through the Highlandsof Scotland, was obliged to halt at the cottage ofa poor Highland peasant, in order to refreshhimself and his horses after a fatiguing jourriey.The Highlander, proud of such a guest, pro¬vided every thing he could for his comfort andconvenience ; and, though he could not boast ofluxurious dainties at his humble board, he yetpresented his guest with a piece of excellentmutton, a bit of good cheese, plenty ol milk,and some exhilerating whiskey.The gentleman, in short, was so well pleasedwith the hospitality and attention of his 'andlord,that, on taking leave of him, he offered him twoguineas, which the Highlander peremptorily re¬fused, saying he would not so tar disgracehimself as to take a bribe for having done v. hathe was in honour bound to do. “13ut,” addedlie, “there is one favour I would ask of you ;should you meet with the laird in your travels,say nothing About the mutton !”13The poor fellow, it seems, had sacrificed his1 honesty to his hospitality, hy making free with1 one of the laird’s sheep for the entertainment of, his guest.FRATERNAL AFFECTION.( When the St. James Portuguese ship was(wrecked on the coast of Africa, the captain andtwelve other persons betook themselves to the■pinnace. On putting oft', numbers hurried onnin hopes of getting on board ; “ but their morefortunate comrades fearing that they might besunk with the weight of all those who endeav-loured to get admittance, pushed them back intothe sea, and, with their sabres and hatchets cut,without mercy, the hands of such as would notjquit their hold. J t is impossible to describe thelanguish of those who remained on the floatingifragments of the wreck, and witnessed the bar-nbarous scene. rI hose in the boat, in order to(prevent the anarchy and confusion which wouldlhave aggravated their misery, agreed to submitto the authority of a head which they wouldj “hoose from among themselves ; and they im-i nediately made choice of one, whom they investeduvith absolute authority. This power he soonTound it necessary to employ, in causing theweakest, whom he merely pointed out with hisinger, to be thrown overboard. In tbe num¬ber of those was a carpenter, who had assistedn repairing the pinnace ; the only favour he re-nguested was a little wine, after which he sufferedIwinself to be thrown into the water without ut¬tering' a word. Another, who was proscribedin the same manner, was saved by an uncommonexertion of fraternal affection. He was alreadyseized, and on the point of being sacrificed toimperious necessity, when his younger brotherdemanded a moment’s delay. He observed,that his brother was skilful in his profession ;that his fathsr and mother were very old, andhis sisters not yet settled in life; that he couldnot be of that service to them which his brothercould ; and, as circumstances required the sa¬crifice of one of the two, he begged to die inhis stead. His request was complied with, andhe was immediately thrown into the sea. Butthis courageous youth followed the boat upwardsof six hours, making incessant ellorts to get onboard, sometimes on one side, sometimes on theother, while those who had thrown him overendeavoured with their swords to keep him off.But that which appeared likely to accelerate hisljend preserved it. The young man snatched ata sword, seized it by the blade, and neither the |pain, nor the exertions made by him who held it,.could make him quit his hold. The others ad-Lmiring his resolution, and moved by the proof ot i-fraternal affection which he had displayed, unani¬mously agreed to permit him to enter the pinnaceAt length, after having endured hunger ant ,thirst, and encountered the dangers of severa|tempests, they landed on ftte coast of Africa. 115EXAMPLE OF 1NTREPEDITY., Amidst a thousand brave and daring exploits| performed during our late contest with France,cl one occurred, to which, though of a more pacificil and less brilliant kind, we will venture to givel the preference:—“On the 4th of June 1804,ij after a royal salute from the principal fort, St., Heliere, in the island of Jersey, the matches1 used on the occasion were lodged in the maga¬zine, without being properly extinguished. On1 the evening of the same day, smoke was per-:| ceived to issue through an aH’-hole in one endi of the magazine, and the alarm was of coursei soon spread. In the midst of the panic oc-i! casioned by the discovery, there were threen men, viz. Edward Towrel, a carpenter, who|i| was the first that volunteered his services,i William Ponteney, a soldier, and a Mr P. Leys,'who were bold enough to advance to and break|open the-magazine, where they found two cais->sons of wood, filled with ammunition, on fire,linear which stood an open barrel of gunpowder !a flannel cartridge was almost burnt through,tand some of the beams that supported the roofMere on fire. By their courage and exertions®he fire was at length totally extinguished.”The magazine, it seems, contained 200oarrels of gunpowder, besides charged bombs,•aissons, and other combustibles. Had an ex-j dosion taken place, the loss of lives and of pro¬perty would have been great and melancholy,\n action of this sort requires more cool intro-16pidity and inflexible courage, than the mostdaring and resolute attack of an enemy ; for, intlie one case, the more daring the attempt, themore, it is to be presumed, an enemy will beconfounded and panic-struck ; but in the other,the event must, if at all unfortunate, operateunavoidable destruction. We would not detractfrom the merit of a valiant and irlorious exploit;but vve may aver, that the three brave men whosaved the magazine at St. Heliere were capableof facing death in his most dreadful and ap¬palling shapes.DESCENT OF NIAGARA BY THE SCHOONERMICHIGAN.(Extract of a letter dated Buffalo, Sep. 9th, 1827.)For several days previous to the 8th, stagescame crouded, as well as the canal boats, somuch so that it was difficult to find a conveyanceto the falls ; and such was the interest that thedescent was the only topic of conversationamong all classes. On Friday night the 7th,waggons filled with country people rattledthrough the town all night; and on Saturdaymorning, Buifalo itself seemed to be moving inmass towards the grand point of attraction. ioaccommodate those who could not find a passagein carriages, five steam boats had advertised toleave here on Saturday morning, ami greatnumbers chose this conveyance ; they were the-Henry Clay, William Penn, Pioneer, Niagara,17j and OiipiH'wa.’ Iwinsf all the steam-l»oafs inLuke Erie, except the Superior. f he Cnip-j pewa was appoiiited to tow down tlie pirateI schooner (as she was termed) the Michigan,i1 which seA’iee she performed. 1 took my pas-j sage on ’noard tins l)oat, and we got underwayI before the others passed through the basin at! Black Rock, and about a mile below the Rock1 took in tow tlie vessel destined to make the dread-!| fal plunge. As soon as we got underway, theI scene became interesting. The sun shone in fullsplendour, the waters of Erie were placid, therej being scarcely a ruffle upon its surface, and aa few miles astern of us, four steamers crowdedit with passengers, and hands of music on board,!ii were plowing their way down the rapids of|l Niagara. Our little boat towed the Michiganill as far as Yale’s landing- on the Briti h shore,II within 3 miles of the Falls, where she anchored ;il and at this place the Chippewa landed her pas-il sengers as well as the William Penn, and theyj| were conveyed from thence to the Falls, in ve¬il hides of all descriptions. The three other steamboats landed their passengers on the American; side.Three o’clock was the hour appointed to weighanchor on board the Michigan.— i he task oftowing her from Yale’s landing to the rapids,and a most hazardous one, was entrusted toI Captain Rouhg, the oldest Captain on the lake.With a yawl boat and five oarsmen, of stouthearts ami strong arms, the old Captain got theschooner under way, and towed her to within13one quarter of a mile of the srst rapids, amiwithin a half a mile of the tremendous precipice,as near as they dare approach, and cuttino- heradrift, she passed majestically on, while the oars¬men of the yawl had to pull for their lives toeffect their own safety. Indeed, such were thefears of the hands, as I have understood, that onapproaching' the rapids, they cut the tow linebefore they had received orders from their com¬mander.And now we approach the interesting mo¬ments of the exhibition. The high grounds onboth sides of the American and British shoreswere lined with people, having a full view of the 1rapids and the approach of the vessel, and nowit was that a thousand fears and expectations wereindulged, as the Michigan, unguided by humanagency, approached, head on, the fhst rapiddescent, and apparently keeping the very coursethat the most skilful navigator would have pur¬sued, having an American ensign flying fromher bowsprit, and the British Jack displayed at ;her stern. She passed the first rapid unhurt, ;still head on, making a plunge, shipping a seaand rising from it in beautiful style, and in herdescent over the second her masts went by theiihoard, at the same moment affording those whofhave never witnessed a shipwreck, a specimen offthe sudden destruction of the spars of a ship afijsea in case of a wrreck.—Expectation for her fatejwas now at the highest; she swung round andiipresented her broadside to the dashing and tfoaming waters, and after remaining stationary,]19r moment or two, was by their force, swungMound, stern foremost, and having passed to theij lird rapid, she bilged, but carried her hull ap-♦ larently whole, between Grass Island on theBritish sh< re to tlie Horse shoe, over which sheeras carried stern foremost, and launched into thejbyss below. In her fell she was dashed intoin thousand pieces. I wrent below the Fallsrlnmediately after the descent, and the river ex-i Jibited a singular appearance from the thousandsir floating fragments, there being scarcely to he?en any two boards nailed together, and manyi,' her timbers were broken into twenty pieces.uch was the eagerness of the multitude present(|> procure a piece of her, that before sunset a■li'eat part of her was carried away.I believe I have already informed you of thenmals on board. They consisted of a buffalothe Rocky mountains, two bears fromslreen Bay and Grand River, two foxes, a ra-idon, a dog, a cat, and four geese—the fate of^.tesc you will probably wish to learn. Whenle vessel w as left to her fate, they were let loosehi deck, except the buffalo, which was enclosedill a temporary pen. The two bears left the•fssel shortly after she began to descend thenipids, and swam ashore, notwithstanding thei pidity of current. On reaching the British; ore they were taken. The buffalo was seen;i pass over the Falls, but was not visible after-trds. What became of the other anirmals ist known. Those wh@ had glasses could seee of the bears climbing the mast as the vessel\v<*rr*50approached the rapids; the foxes. See.,also rimnintr up and down, but notldng'was seenof them after tile schooner passed over. Theonly live animals of the crew that passed over!tue falls were two geese ; they were taken upunhurt. Major Fraser obtained one, and anEnglish gentleman purchased the other for tv/o|dollars.1 he calculations are various as to the numberlof persons assembled on both shores. Some es¬timate them as low as fifteen, and others at thirtythousand. The greatest body of people wereon the American side. Goat Island for a comsid Table distance exhibited a dense column ofper ons, and the bridge erected from Goat*,island, which is upwards of a hundred feet over!the rapids, was also crowded, and temporarybooths, made with the houghs of trees, skirtedboth shores. As we passed down the Niagara,we had a full view of the whole distance from .Ibiffalo, of the hundreds of vehicles of all desorip-lions passing towards the Falls,and as theweathei |,had been uncommonly hot and dry for a Ion;time, the roads presented uninterrupted columnof dust as far as the eye could extend. In factso much larger was the assemblage of person:than was anticipated, that notwithstanding tinproprietors of public houses had laid in an uiiusursupply of refreshments, they had not provide!sufficient for one half the people, and thousand1were unable to obtain a mouthful of any thingYou may judge of the situation of matters, whetI assure you, that I stepped at Forsyth’s abut ifour o’clock P. M., after climbing up his ever¬lasting steps from the bottom of the falls, andwas unable to obtain even a cracker or a glass ofwater, and this was the case at Brown’s also.”AX EXTRAORDINARY HAGGIS.There was a fellow of the name of ThomasM‘Donald, a Glasgow thief, lately con¬fined in the Jail of Ayr, accused of breakinginto a shop in Death, and carrying oft’ a greatquantity of silks.— It seems that this man iswell acquainted with, and very much respectedby, the gentlemen of his own profession inthis city, who, to shew their regard and sympa¬thy for a brother in distress, two days ago for¬warded to his address in Ayr a very largeScotch Haggis.—It is more than probable that8the gaucy present would have been sent directly toits proper owner by the Jailer, had he not beenwarned in a very particular manner, by thecriminal officers here, to be on his guard withrespect to McDonald, as they were afraid ofsome trick being attempted by his friends tofacilitate his eicape. As a precautionaryneas re, therefore, the haggis was cut up,vhen all present were sufficiently astonished tond, that, besides the delicate mixture of whichthis long-approved dish of our countrymen isusual' • composed, it also contained a new springaw!—It is needless to add, that the haggis,n being divested of this ingredient, was littledished by the prisoner, although a genuineHighlander.A STRAXGE VISITER.On Saturday evening-, about eleven o’clock,two respectable families in Dummyha’s Wymlwere frightened to an alarming degree withwhat they thought an invisible spirit. As thefamilies were proceeding to bed, an unwelcomeknock came to the doors. Behm' a little timid,they inquired who was there ? No answerbeing made, one, possessed of stronger nervesthan the other?, slipped open the door, withouta light, but could not see or hear any thing.In, a little while after the rapping became trulyterrific. On being repeatedly asked to statewho they were, and no answer given, t’ e fearsof the inmates can be more easily felt than de¬scribed. Eight stout athletic men who belongeito the house stood on the floor, almost immov¬ably fixed, and, like the earth stopper, with theirhair standing on end with fear. At last two ofthe men became courageous, and thrust open thewindow and came out. On entering the lobby,to their mighty astonishment, they found thehuge body of a jackass, which was the objectof so much terror, lying upon his back, rollingover and over, first kicking at the one door andthen at the other ? The ass had been strollingabout, and, like Paul Pry, had just “ droppedin.” He attempted to ascend the stairs, hutthe task being too difficult, fell over on his back.A farmer’s servant, while about to go abroad inthe morning, was su^-fised to observe what23J looketl like the body of a man, coiled up in atrue hedg’e-hog fashion, in the clift of a tree 0.5lor 30 feet high. At first he mistrusted hisi powers of vision, but on discovering that he sawlas well as usual, he could only account for theIJapparition by supposing that a whirlwind hadarisen during the night, and furtively transpor-»ited some neighbouring scarcrow to a spot where< no scarecrow used to be. 3till he had his doubts;^scarecrows are newer dressed like dandies ; andi \ cravat so clean, hose so tidy, with coat, vest,rand small clothes at once so fashionable and ad-tl nirably fitted, could only, he thought, belong toitn animate being. The “ thews and sinews”l ointed to exactly the same conclusion, and alit A N it was, and must be, who sleeping orJvalking, ran some risk of tumbling over bed thennoment he disensconced himself from his sylvanTurtains, or raised his head from a timber pillow,ijn these circumstances the honest hind thought itight to rouse some of the neighbours, who as-mbled very promptly at his call, and, headeda sailor, held a council of war right underanches much bettei fitted for the perch of a birdan a human being. A ladder was sent for andcoil of rope, and the gallant tar nimbly clewede wooden shrouds, with a view of making theunberer fast, and lowering him when he chancedcome to his senses. But in slipping the cordl-.der his head, the man' awoke, and actuallyd as wildly at his deliverer, as ever a crimi-Jd when his neck was about to be inserteda halter. With much ado, he was pilotedough projecting boughs and twigs, safely Jan-(led on terra firnm, and then called on to accountfor his conduct. Ilis speech though brief, wasprotracted by many a hearty yawn, and all that'the auditors could collect from it was, that hebelonged to Dumfries, was by trade a tailor, andthat while taking a walk on Saturday afternoon,with his week’s earnings snug in his pocket, hehad “forgathered” with rather a wet acquain¬tance. A bouse was the consequence, andwhile returning home and passing a spot whorea number of crows are known to roost, be ima¬gined he heard a voice saying—“come up thisway and take another g/ass.” The invitatioijflwas very cordially accepted, but how an individmilthree parts drunk, managed to climb to a heightof 40 feet, and preserve his balance when oncethere, is what we cannot well understand. Thesailor remarked that even lie who had been ac¬customed to climbing all his life, would havefelt uneasy in a hammock swung almost topmashigh ; that a man who could perform such marvellous feats, prostituted his talents by sitting!cross-legs; that one good turn deserved anotherand that if ever the press-gang visited the Nithhe would insist on their seizing the tailor as hi;substitute to serve on board a man-of-war. AIthis sutruestion the tailor, it is said, looked ratheblue ; and we have only to add, that the abovincident, strange as it may appear, was communicated to us from a most respectable quarteuand can be vouched for by nearly the vvholipopulation of the sweetly rural village of Keltor;