FUN UPON FUN ;OR,THE COMICAL AND MERRYTRICKSOfJEPER the TAILORIN TWO PARTS.EDINBURGH:Printed for the Bookseller* in Town and Country,FUN UPON FUN;OR,THE MERRY TRICKSLEPER THE TAILORLeper's father lived in a village about six miles from Glasgow, and dietwhen he was but Very young; he lefa widow and three children, twcdaughters and a son ; Leper being theyoungest, was greatly idolized by hi*mother, who was a good soft-naturecwoman, very industrious, and follow¬ed the business, of bleaching cloth.As Leper grew up he turned a verymischievous boy, playing many trickson the neighbourhood, such as tyingcats to dog’s tails, breaking hen’s legs,stopping people’s lums or n chimney-tops ; so that his poor mother wassadly vexed with complaints againsthim. :ITo get him kept from mischief, sheAvailed with a tailor to take him as aniprentice ; he settled, and was veryaceable for some time, until he got souch of his trade on his finger endsmight make him pass for a journey-in, and then he was indifferent whe-er he staid with his master or not. Hisstress gave him but very little meaten he wrought at home, so he liked;fet to be in other houses, where het both meat and diversion.ti.Leper was resolved on revenge a-*dnst his mistress for her thin kail, no,chen, and little bread ; for though>h was boiled in the pot, there wasle for poor Leper and his master, butttle bit on Sunday’s, and then all thems were kept and put in the pot, tokethe broth through the week. Le~i1 perceived that when she took off the, she always turned her back to them1 took out the flesh, and set it on a|lf in her own bed-room. One night,2r work, he steals out a pan, cuts ace of flesh out of a dead horse, and then4goes to a lime kiln and boils it; ne:day, his master being from home, hlandlady and him being in the housafter she had set off the pot as usiu|and taken out her bit of good beef, l|went out for some time, and then canlback saying, theminister’slassis wishityou to go directly and speak to hmistress. Off she goes in all hast*jLeper runs and takes away her bitsgood meat, and lays down his horflesh; and knowing she would retuin a passion, and sit down with a soin her cushioned chair, as she used, itakes a large pin, and staps it straig tthrough the cushion, with its head e ithe chair, and the point to her bac|side. So in she comes in a rage, aiadown she sits with all her weight «|the pin point, andthen roars out, ‘Muider, murder,’ for she was sticket in tfja—e ; the neighbours came running iand Leper went out with his bitgood beef, leaving the wives to docthis landlady’s doup as they pleaseHe still denied the doing of it, and fI".i‘ 4- < /* v • * * ^' * > . • 1 1 * .-•• 1 * i *i •- -faster believed it hiight happen abei-entally; but the libwdie was very oftI) be had before it was got hale agaiii;ndhis landlady, by eatiiigof that horseeef, took such a loathing at flesh; thati^eper and his master got all the beefver after, and bis landlady turned onef the kindest mistresses an apprehticeiOuld wish for.There was a neighbour wife on whomLeper used to play tricks sometimes,,cw* which she came and complained toids master, and got him severely beat-in several times. Leper resolved tooe revenged on her; so one day he.came to the backside of the house (nofane being in but herself), and took upi big stone, and runs along the roughsvall with all his strength, which roar-fed like thunder in the inside of the'louse ; and frightened the wife so, thatkhe thought the house was tumblingdown about her ears, upon which she ranout, and sat down at a distance, lookingievery minute when the house would fallIdown, till her husband came home and6persuaded her to go in, to whom sitold the above story. 4 Hout ton,daft tapie, said he, ‘the house wistand these hundred years.’ Leptknowing they were' both in, comes 2uiplays the same trick oyer again, wide*also frightened the good man so muclthat he cried out-—4 Run, flaggy, ru;for my heart plays pi tty patty.’ Anthey w ould not lodge, in the house anmore, fill the masons convinced therof its sufficiency.There was another neighbour wh-*i • .h id a snarling cur dog, which bit Lepers leg ; Leper resoivred to be revenge;f on the dog; and so one night hcatches the dog, and carries him to tlikirk, where the rope of the bell him-on the outside; so with his garter hitied the dog’s sore foot to the rope, antleft him hanging ; the dog strugglingto get free, set the bell a-riagingwhich alarmed the whole village. Evenone cried out 4 Wonderful sirs! wonderful sirs ! the devil is ringing thebell.’ When they saw the black col-'iey hanging at the rope, I true it set^he minister, and all the people to theirprayers : but Leper, fearing he wouldoe detected by his garter, came to theminister’s side, and asked the reverendgentleman what was the matter ? ‘ In¬deed, my bairn,’ said he, ‘ ’tis the deili(ringing the kirk bell.’ Says Leper, ‘ I’llgo and see him, for I never saw thepeil;’ the minister cried, ‘Stop that madladdie ;’ but Leper ran and loosed thedog, crying, ‘ It’s such a man’s dog,which had the rope in its teeth.’ They[Ml cried out, ‘ The deil’s i’ the dog, the[deil’s i’ the dog;’ then took up stonesand felled poor colley, and the devil gotpthe blame of making the dog ring thepell. Thisspread Leper’sfame forbeingpne of the wisest and most courageousitailors that was in all the kingdom ;and many, shaking their heads, said,l it was a pity he was a tailor, but acaptain or general of an army, as thedevil could not fear him.’Alter this, a farmer in the neigh¬bourhood hearing the fame of Leper,8how he had frighted the dell fraa beina bellman, sent for him to an ale-hous*and drank with him very heartily, antold him he was sadly borne down b;a spirit of jealousy against his wifeand a suspieien of her being too frewith a servant lad he had before ; amif he would keep it secret, and leanhim to find it out, he would give himother a load of meal, to which Lepeagreed, and gave the poor suppose!cuckold instructions how to behaveSo home he goes, and finds himselvery sick, and every day worse amworse; takingdeathtohim, heblesseshithree small children, and charges hiwife not to marry, until his childreicould do something for themselvesThis hvnocritical woman takesaroaring‘Aha! marry, she should never marryno, no, there should never a man lie tr;my side, or kiss my lips after thee, miain dear lamb, Johnny.’—Then he acted the dead man as well as he possiblycould ; the neighbours were called inand he’s fairly o’erseen, as the old say-9|ig is, before good neighbours. The)rrowful widow made sad lament,rung her hands and tore her hair—he reverend women about began toress the corpse, and asked her for aurt. ‘Ay,ay,saidshe,hehastwanewlin'-i sarks, and here is an auld ane in thel)ttom o’ the kist, that naebody canear ; ony thing’s good enough for therave. Well, said they, we must haveume linen for a winding-sheet. Aweel,|jo’ she, I hae twa cut o’ linen i’ theist neuk; but there’s a pair o’ auldmen sheets, hol’d i’ the middle, maya well enough; I hae need tobe carefu’;I am a poor widow the day wi’ threepia’ bairns.’i Aweel, the corpse is dressed, and laid;n the top of the big chest, while theiteighbours sat by her condoling herMisfortune, and how the funeral thingsere to be provided: said one,’ Thefoffin must needs be seen about first.’Ay, ay, he has some new deals in theiarn, he brought them to make a bedbut we’ll no break them, there’s the10auld barn door, and the caff kist \vido well enough ; ony thing’s glidenough to gang to the grave wi’; but (quo’ she, 4 send for Sandy, my honeauld servant, and he’ll see every thirright done; I’ll tell him where 1?will get siller to do any thing wi’; hdithe lad that will not see me wrang’dThen Sandy comes wrying his face, anrubbing his eyes. 4 O Sandy, there’ssad alteration here, and ba-a a,’ shcries like a bitten calf, 4 O sirs, will ygang a’ butt the house till I tell birwhat to do ; butt they went, and thershe fell a kissing of Sandy, and saicNow, my dear, the auldckatteringguesis awa’, and we’ll get our will o’ itherbe as haining of every thing as ye canfor thou kens it’s a’ thy ain ; but tincorpse’s sister, and some other peophcame in ; ben they went to see thecorpse, lifts up the cloth off his faceand seeing him all in a pour of s^eatisaid, Hech, he’s a bonny corpse, and alively like colour ; when he could nclonger contain himself to carry on theH ?11i;[)ke, but up be, got among them, a dealf people ran for it, and bis wife cried:ut, ‘ O, my dear, do you ken me V Ay,jbu ‘base jade and whore, better thanrer I did.’ Jumps on the floor, getsis staff arid runs after Sandy, and[itches him in the fields, a little-fromle house ;—ate and drank with hisstef and neighbours who had come toe his corpse: and poor Sandy wentfine with a skir;- full of terror, and a'ting of sore bones, took a sore fever,id died a few days after,' so he gotlit of his cuckokler, and Leper’s mo-ler got her load of nieal, -Leper’s mother was a careful iudus-lious wife, but, as the by-word is, ‘aorkirig mother makes a dally daugh-and so it happened here, for sheid twa idle giaiket sluts of dan ga¬rs, that would do nothing hut lie :rii'elr bed,in.the morning, till, as thering is, 4 the sun was like to burn ail’e in their backsides.’ The old we¬an, who was bleaching some cloth, was>ry early at work in the morning's,12and Leper’s patience being worn ouwith the laziness of his two sisters, h»resolved to play a trick on them, foitheir reformation ; so he goes and get;a mortcloth, and spreads it on the beoabove them, and sends the dead beithrough the town, inviting the peoplnext day, at four o’clock, afternoon, tcthe burial of his two sisters, for thejhad died suddenly : this brought all theneighbouring wives in, who one afteianother lifted up the mortcloth, ancsaid with a sigh, ‘ They’ve gone to theirest, a sudden call indeed !’ Their aunthearing of this sudden news, came run¬ning in all haste, and coming whenthe jades’ mither was at work, and waignorant of thestory, she cries out, ‘Fveupon ye, woman, fye upon ye !’ ‘ What’thematter, sister,’saysshe? ‘What’sthe,matter ! I think you might let youiwork stand for ae day, when your daugh¬ter’s are baitii lying corpse.’ ‘My bairnscorpse ! I am certain they went to behale and fair last night.’ ‘ But I telyou,’ says the other, ‘ the dead bell has!13>t>een through warning the folks to theRirial ; then the mother cries out, ‘ Ohe villain ! O the villain ! that he didnot send me word. ’ So they both ran,nd the mother, as soon as she entered:he house, flies to the bed, crying, ‘ Oiny bairns, my dear bairns, ’ on whichdie sluts rose up in a consternation, tohe great surprise of the beholders, andthe great mortification of the girls, who(bought shame to let their noses out ofdoors, and to the diversion of the wholelown.Leper and his master went to a gen-deman’s house to work, where therewas a saucy housekeeper, who had moreignorance and pride than good senseend manners ; she domineered over her.lellow servants in a tyrannical manner:Leper resolved to mortify her pride;<o he finds an ant’s nest, and takes(heir white eggs, grinds them to a pow-ier, and puts them into the dish her(upper sowns was to be put in. Afterdie had taken her supper, as she wascovering the table, the immock powder14began to operate, and she let a greafart. Well done Marget, says the Lairdyour arse would take a cautioner: before she got out of the chamber doo!she let fly another crack ; then she goe 1to order her fellow servant to give tinLaird his supper, but before she conk!give the necessary directions, she gavifire again, which set them all a laughing. She runs into a room herself, ancthere she played away her own gun-bat.tery so fast, that you would havethought she had been besieging the Ha-vann'ali. The Laird and Lady cameto hear the fun ; they were like to split itheir sides at proud Maggy. So nextmorning she left her place, to the greatlsatisfaction of all her fellow servants. ?PART II.Leper’s landlady became very harsh tohis master, and very often abused himexceedingly sore with her tongue and!hands, and always called upon him for jmore money, and to have all the moneyi15li in her keeping, which Leper was scfry| for. It so happened on a day thV; \etailor had got a drubbing hoL;i tongue and tongs, that he pond - hisi thimble, and was going to make ’ - onof her; when she saw that, she ed: out, 0 ! will you leave a poor tender dy¬ing woman. But Leper, knowing the1 cause of her ill nature better than hisrj master did, advised him to take her, onilia fine day, about a mile out of the town,I arid give her a walk, and he would stay|i;at home and study a remedy for her dis¬order—Away they both went, but asishe was complaining for want of health,and that she was very weak, she criedfrequently out, O ! ’tis a crying sin totake a woman in my condition out o’erthe door. 1 airing their absence, Lepergoes and searches her bed, and belowI the bolster he getsabottleof rare whisky,Nof which he takes a heartyr pull, andtthen pisses in it to make it up, gets a(halfpenny worth of snuff, and puts it(in also, shakes all together, and so setsjit in its place again—Home they came,#i I: ®16and she was exceedingly distressed as awoman could be, and cried out, it was ahorrid thing to take her out of thehouse. The tailor, seeing her so bad,thought she would have died, ran asfast as he could for a dram, but she, in Jher hypocrisy, pretended she could nottake it, and called on him to help her tobed, into which he lays her. He was notwell gone when she fell to her bottle,taking two or three hearty gluts, thenshe roars out ‘ Murder, Tm poisoned,I’m poisoned.’—Booking and purgingbegan, and the neighbours were calledin; she leaves her blood upon poor Le¬per, and tells how such an honest womanbrought her ae bottle as another wasdone, and the murdering loon had sto¬len it, and put inabottleof poison insteadof it. Leper took to his heels, but was :pursued and carried before a justice ofthe peace, where he told all he had done,which made the justice laugh heartilyat the joke, and the tailor's wife was ^well purged from her feigned sickness, |Jlaziness, and cursed ill nature; for al-17. ways when she began to curl her nosefor the future, the tailor had no moreto say, but, ‘ Maggy, mind the bottle.’Leper was working with a master tai-ior in Glasgow, who hungered his men,,md one morning, just when breakfastwas set on the table, in comes a gentle¬man to try on a suit of clothes; the mas¬ter being obliged to rise, desired the ladsijlo say the grace themselves; every on^refused it, and put it to his neighbour,till Leper undertook it, and said, withan audible voice, that the stranger gen¬tleman might overhear him, as follows :iiOcb, hoch ! we are a parcel of poorbeastly bodies, and we are as beastlyiguided, if we do not work we get noth-ting to eat, yet we are always eatingland fretting, fidging and half starving|s like to be our fortune ; scartings andscrapings are the most of our mouth¬fuls : we would fain thank thee for ourfullness, if it were so, but the rest ofjour benefactors are not worthy the ac¬knowledging ;—hech hey. Amen.’ Theigentleman laughed till his sides were18like to burst, and gave Leper half-a,crown to drink.Leper was not long done with his apjjprenticeship till he set up for himseland got a journeyman and an apprentice; was coming into very good business, and, had he restrained his roguistricks, he might have done very welHe and his lads being employed to worin a farmer’s house where the housewift|was a great miser, and not very cleanly in making meat, and sneevelecthrough her nosegreatly when she spokeIn the morning, when she went to maketheir pottage, she made a fashion owashing the pot, which to appearanceseemed to him to have been amongstthe first that had been made ; then sheset it before the fire till she went to thewell, in which time Leper, looking intcit, sees two great holes in the bottomstopped with clouts, hetakesuphisgooseand holds itas highas his head, thenletsitdrop into thepot, which knocked out thebottomof it; presently in comes the wifewith the water, and poursit into thepotJ19l iwliich set the fireside all in a dam, for(still as she poured in it ran out; the wifebeing short-sighted, or what they callsand blind, looks into the pot, holds upboth her hands, and cries, ‘ Losh pre¬serve me, sirs ; for the grip between thetwa holes is broken —says Leper, the(pot was old enough, but do you not kenthat tailor’s pottage is heavier than oth¬er men’s. Indeed, lad, I believe it, butthey say ye’re a warlock; it’s Wednes-idavall the world over, and a waefu’Wed-mesday to me indeed; my pot mightnae served me this fifty year, a sae wadit e’en.This sport diverted Leper and bis ladsthrough the day; and after su pper, know-ling he was to get some dirty bed, asthe cows and the people lived all in oneapartment, he chose rather to go home ;and knowing the moon was to rise aittle after midnight, he sat along by thelire, told them many a fine story toIrive the time, and bade the wife makekhe bed, to see how it might be : to savehandle, she made it in the dark, directlygoon the floor, behind where they sat, sha - fking down two bottles of straw; a calf, iwhich chanced to be lying on that place,and which the wife did not notice, wascovered with the straw, and the bedl:clothes spread over it. The most ofithe family being in bed, the wife toldthem to go to bed also; but Leper, know¬ing of the calf, said, I’ll make my bedcome to me, on which the wife began !to pray for herself and all that was inthe house ; so up he gets his elwand,.and gives a stroke on the bed, which Icaused the brute to rise, and not seeingwhere to go, it fell a crying, and turned;round, which set the whole house a roar¬ing out murder in their own tongue.!The goodwife ran to the bed above thejigoodman, and the whole family cried:out, not knowing what it was; but Le¬per and his two lads whipt off the blank- 1ets, and the brute ran in among the restunperceived; then Leper lighted a can¬dle, and all of them got out of bed, paidiLeper for his work, and more if he pleas-ied, and begged him to go away, and:,s take the devil with him. So home he■ went, but never was employed by thatwife any more.Leper had a deal of the best customers, both in! town and country; so one time he had occasion togo to the parish of Inchinan to make a wedding-Isuit for a gentleman. After they were finished, heasked drink-money to his lads, which the gentle¬man refused. Leper resolved to be even with him ;so he goes up to the hay-loft, where the groomslept, and takes his stockings, breeches, and jacket,sews them altogether, and stuffs them full of hay,makes a head, putsa ropeaboutthe neck, and hangsii it on a tree opposite to the laird’s window; thenL goes to the laird, and tells him that his groom hadJ hanged himself, and that if he would open his' window, he would see him hanging; the laird,‘ struck with astonishment, knew not what to do.i Leper advised him to bury him privately. Thelaird said he had not a servant he could trust, soi begged of Leper to do it. Leper refuses, till thelaird promised him a load of meal; then Leperr pulls the hay out of the groom’s clothes, goes andi gets his load of meal, and sends it to Glasgow,ij then goes to the groom, and says hastily, ‘Lad,: thy master is wanting thee,’ so the lad runs in a» haste to see what his master wanted; the•1 laird no sooner saw him opening the door, than^ hecry’dout, ‘Avoidthee, Satan; avoid thee, Satan;I the lad says, ‘ What’s the matter, sir ? What’* thematter ?’ ‘ Did not you hang yourself this mor-i ning ?’ ‘ Lotd forbid, said the lad. The lairdsays, if thou be an earthly creature, take that tank-JJard and drink,1 which he did. Then says he to Hihis master, ‘ Leper called me up, and said you wan- Ited me in all haste.1 ‘ Ho, ho, says the laird, Ifind out the story now; if I had Leper I would run jjmy sword through him.1 But Leper before thatwas awav for Glasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads their Sunday'ssupper, which obliged him to stay from the kirk iin the afternoon, he having neither wife nor ser- ■vant maid; so one Sunday afternoon, as he wascooking his pot, John Muckle Cheek and JamesPuff and Blaw, two civileers, having more zealthan knowledge, came upon him, and said, what’sthe matter, sir, you go not to the kirk ? Leper re¬plied, I.am reading my book, and cooking my pot,which 1 think is a work of necessity. Then saysthe one to the other, ‘ Don’t answer that gracelessfellow, we’ll make him appear before his betters,so they took the kail pot, and puts a staff' throughthe bools, and bears it to the clerk’s chamber:Leper, who wras never at a loss for invention, goesto the Principal of the college’s house, nobodybeing at home but a lass roasting a leg of mutton.Leper says, My dear, will you go and bring me apint of ale, and I’ll turn the spit till you comeback. The lass was no sooner gone, than he runs a-way with the leg of mutton, which served his ladsand him for their supper. When the Principalcame home, he was neither to hand nor to bind hewas so angry ; so on Monday he goes and makescomplaint to the Lord Provost, who sends two offi¬cers for Leper, who came immediately. MyLord asked him how he dared to take away the’iincigal’smutton? Leperreplied,4How cameyournivileers to take away my kail pot ? I’m sure therei'k less sin in making a pot fuf! of kail, than roast-iji a letr of mutton, law makers should not be lawIreakers, so I demand justice on the civileers !’*i i’he provost asked him what justice he would have ?s nys he, Make them carry the pot back again ; and:tl> the Principal, a leg of mutton won’t make himid me fall out; so they were forced to carry theat back, and Leper caused the boys to huzza af-r them to their disgrace.There svas a barber who always plagued Leper,d called him prick-fhe-louse Leper resolved to? even with him, so he goes and buys three sheepads, and sends for the barber, and told him thatitere were three fine Southland gentlemen just-Ime to his house, who much wanted to be shav-I, and he assured him he would receive sixpencejr each one of them ;—thi:, good news made the|aver send for a dram. Leper was still praising|em for quiet good natured gentlemen, so LeperIjkes him to the bed where the sheep-heads layivered, and desired him to awaken them, for theyuld not be angry, or say an ill word to him ;barber lifts the covering, and sees the sheep-ds, runs out cursing and swearing, and Lepering after him, sheep-head barber.“he barber resolved to be revenged on Leper,when lie was shaving Mess John, he tells himat Leper was the drunkenest fellow in his pa-jli; so Mess John warns him to the session.<per comes, and says, Whatdo you want with me,? Come away, Leper, says Mess John, I hearad report of you ; Me sir, I am sure they were24not my friends that told you that.—‘ Indeed, I arinformed you are a drunkard.’—‘ I a drunkard,—You have not a soberer man in your parish. Stosir, I will tell you how I lead my life,—in thmorning I take a choppin of ale and a bit of breadthat I call my morning; for breakfast I generalltake a herring and a choppin of ale, for I cannasup brose like my lads; the herring makes me dryso at eleven hours, I take a pint, and sometimethree chopping: at supper I take a bit of breaand cheese, and a pint, and so go to bed.’ MesJohn says, ‘It’syxtravagant, sir, it’s excessive drinking, I allow you the one half of it for a quarteof a year.’ Says Leper, ‘ Til try it, sir, and comback and tell you. At the end of the quarter hdraws out his account, and goes to Mess Johrwho wfas sitting with the elders in the session houseand says, ‘ Sir, I have a demand on you‘ On msir?’ ‘Yes, on you, sir; Don’t you remember yo'allowed me so much drink for a quarter of a yea)and I want the money.’ ‘ Am I to pay your rectoring. Sir.’ ‘ You allowed it, and if you won’t pay i j!I’ll take you before the Provost.’ The elders ac|vised him to pay it, or he would be affronted ; sLeper got the money. When he was at the doo:|he says, ‘ Sir, will you stand another quarter ? Ge||away, says Mess John, and don’t trouble me. Lejljer says, I am sure you may, for I am always twilpence to your penny.FINIS