Three Excellent NewSON G S;i. Down by a River Side.Laird of Glen-lee.£, Donnel and Flora.Entered according to Orders'' V S? l . Qi .r*( 2 )BOVTNBY YON RIVER SIDE, Sec"\\7 HEN Sol did cafl no light, being darbned over^ At the dead time of the night when fkies didcover**Down by a river fide where (hips were failing,A fair maid I fpy‘d weeping and wailingIftcpt unto her ftraight,^dearcfi: what grieves thee ?She anfwer’d me and laid, none can relieve me}‘Tis feven long years and more fince me anti mylove parted,He left me on the fhore quite broken hearted.Which makes me to fear death hath prevented,O that I could but hear fome tidings fom himHow it my heart would cheer for all my longing,A young man ftraight fhe fpy’d like one amazed*Who did a token bring whereon fhe g;ized ;Where is my love quoth fhe that hecomenoinear me?The young man he reply’d, pleafe for to hear me.Your Jove and I did fight under one banner,Mantaining England's right pur-chafing honour,He was a feaman bold of courage valliant.Scorning to be controul'd by any gallantBut in dreadful fight where guns did rattleAnd many a gallant k-night fell in the baitie.His fatal deftiny was approaching,And fummon’d him away by death approaching,Whtfi he his death's wound got and hisferainsbrokenTo me thefc words he fpoke, deliver this token3o her who has-my heart, and is moie dear,Wilhing her for my fake to love the beater,And having (poke thefe words he then declined,And in a fit earn of blood his life refigoed,3Leairmg me full of care fad news to bear it,£iir death for to declare as ye now hear h. fr 1 . ■ .,( 3 ) .WK’n tbit thefe words fhe beard his fad paffiontShe liicr a doc1? appear’d without all motion,At length her fpirites came by grief inflamed,And t eo wit,b floods of tears fhe thus exclaimed*O ! Ye powers above which fife did lend us,A ' you the god of love who doth befriend us,Why have y.ju fnatch’d sw^y my deaieft Tweeting*Am! by your cruelty fpoiled our meeting,I -Since that it y love is dead whom I did tender*N-> coutfoi t will I take but life- furre-nder,| In f me unbounded paths there will I wander*An ptuve more cot ftant then e’er Leander,Am. io vain wot Id farewell and all thy pleafureSince he is gone that was my chieftll tieafurC,To the E’eyfian fh ides there will I hide me,Untijl l find my 'ove whatever betide me,idut for to try her more he Ail! perfifled,To tci! her o’er and o’or how that he a£\ed,1 And then he did begin after this manner,I, To ptove her cotslfancy utito her lover-Ml rid: I witntfs can having flood by him,.Foi courage I mart lay none aid outvy him ;'For he mu ft toteyjv.fl be Ikiving for honour,' But fortune is a whore, vengeance upon her.Infomb d he now doth ly in ftately manner,,C.iule he fought valiantly for love and honour,IThat right he had to you he fredy gave it,liNow Gnce it is my due pray let me have it.She raging flung away like one dilh ailed,at knowing what to do not what Ibe kited,U !aft fh? curs'd her fate and IhewM her anger,aying friend your come -.oo iate i’l have no flrangerTo your ownhouie return, L am well pleafed,fert for my !ove to mourn fince he’s deceafed,n fabble weens 1’Ji go let who .viil jeei me,iiocedeath hath lav’d me lo none Hull come neat me'Jrtie chafte Pcneloprum, monrnM for tTtyfTesiI have nnoie grief then (he rob’d of fuch blefles,I’ll r-c ver love again therefore pi ay hear me,I'll flight you with diftl: in if you come near meI know he lov’d me well, for when we paited*None tou’d in grief excel, both were true hearted,Thefe prbmiics he ma;<e ne'er fhtll be broken*Thefe words that then he laid ne’er lhaji be fpoken.He hearing what flic kid made his love ftrotiger,Off his difgu’fe he laid and ftaid no longer,Wiien her dear love flic knew in wanton fafliion,Into bis arms flit ffsw fuch is loves paflion,He afle’d her how flic lik’d his counterfeiting,Or if flie was (veil pleas’d wi h fuch like greeting.You well wot’d qouth fhe in (cvcral fpecches,CouM you coin money fo you might get relies,O happy gale of wind thar biought you over,May heavtn prefetve the ftvp thatbrowgi t mv loverCome kits me now my fvieer true lost's no flander,I fhaf they Hs.ro be, thou my Leander.Dido of Carthage queen lov’d flout Eneas,But rry true love is found more true then he was,- Venus no fonder was of young Adonis,Than I well be of thee, lines my love known is,Now hand in band thev walk wi h joy andp!ea(iir«*1 hey laugh tl-.ey kifl aria ta k, love knows no metfure.Now both doth fit and fisig but A,e lings c • irefl,Like nightingale in fprinp, welcome my de.irelLThe laird of glenlee> |V name's, J ckey millerT care nor who 'knowesltD* iny dwelling is at the m'll of Gicnlee ;And I’m the' lad that can pntage and brofe it.Ard diiuk nay fix bottles if you’d keep me freevA*.As for Jockey Miller, tkere’s not fuch another,the l.tird of Glenle*?, the juftice clerk’s brother,A fcore of kin weathers like rabits I fmother,and cats them fny lean at the mill of Glenlee.1 The 'ligions of wlieeni I know nothing about it,it’? precepts yet never was ftudy’d by me,I My belly’s my god, and if that ye doubt it,my altar and flatutc’s at the mill of Glenlee.Where thoufands of v'.cf ms I yearly do offer,to no other being devotion I proffer,I fr xcept twice a year to i he gold in my coder,when I lift the rents of the lands of Glenlee.It’s many long years fioce my trunk was disformed,and handfomenefs now is a flranger to n^e ;'My head’s like aboil’s, and if it we.« hornedit wou’d fright all the bairns at the mill of GlenleeiMy belly’s grown b<g vi;h the weight of my paunchesthe greaze of my fiJes liang; over my haunches,And makes me unfit for to k fs the bright wenches,which makes me lament at the mill of Glenlte.! Since 1 am unfit for the p’eafures of V^ntis,and m thing like that is expefti d of ma,(With fot ing a nd drinking ITi nourifli my genus,and live like a bean at the mil! of Glen'ee jij&nd when I’m dead they’h fiy here lyrs a fat one,the other will fiy it's a dninkeri glutton ;het them fay what they will I’ll devour my lov’dmutton,ioi eat it with greed at the mill of Glen’ee.««DOMNELand FLORAA Balland on the late misfortune of Gen-Burgoyne and his Gallant Army —By a Lady.WbTEV merry hearts were gay,Careleis of ought but,play,Poor Flora fliipt away,Sad’ning to Mora.Loofe flow’d her coal black hair,Qn ick heaved her boforn bare,And thus to the troubled atr.She vented her forrow.Loud howels the northern blafl.Bleak is the dreary WeftHalle then, O Donnel hafte,Halle to thy Flora !Twice twelve long months are oferSince on a foreign there, vYou promis’d to fight no more,But meet me in mora.Where now is Donne] dear ?(Maids cry with taunting fueer ). ( 7 ).Say be is ftill fincere.To bis lo\ ,cl Fora ! —Parents upbraid my moan ;Each heart is cold as bone—7Ah [ Flora tbon’rt-alone,i1 riendiefs in mora.C©me then, O come away,Donncl no longer bay.Where can my rover ftray.From his dear Flora ?i Ah ! hire lie ne,er could be,Fallen, bis vows and me.I O heav’n ! 1 not yonoer tie.Bounding in niora.1 Never, O wretched Fair ;HSigh’d the lad meflenger)'Never lliail Donnel mairMeet his lov’d Flora!loukl cold bevand the main,lonnel thy loielies (lain,the lent me to foothe thy pain.Weeping in mora..Veil lowglit our gallant men,leaded by brave Burgoyne,( 8 )Oar heroes were thrice led on,To Britilh glory.But ah! tho* our foes did flee,Sad was the lofs to theevWhile ev’ry freflt vidoryDrawn’d us in farrow.Here take this trufly blade,(Donnel expiring faid :)Give it to yon dear maidWeeping in more.- —■Tell her. Oh ! Mian tell,Donnel thus bravely fell.And in his la(l farewell,He thought on his Flora.Mute flood the trembling fair,Sptechlefe with wild ditpair,Then ft ricking her bofoni bear;Sigh'd ont poor Flora ! —Oh'. Donnell h willaday !Was all the fond heart could fayAt length the found died awayFeebly in ir.orra.finis.<4,. . . ,