m - |.(UC SCRAP BOOK is not restricted to the Months of one year, but'.M a reference to the Months generally t and besides noticing inciteM*n! customs peculiar to the M onths, it comprises instructive and entevta.i. -(g Pieces, well suited to excite in youth a relish for useful reading.THESMoNTHiiY Scrap Hook,FOB BECEIVIBBH.All Nature feels the .enovating forceOf Winter ; only to the th rughtless eyeIn ruin seen. The frost-co cocted glebeDraws in abundant vegetab’c soul.And gathers vigour for the coming year.CONTENTS.An Acrostic, .2The Ostrich, 3The Whale ; a Zetland Story, concluded, . 5Description of the Tea Plant, 8Scots Baptists, 12Highland Christmas, 19The Seaman and the Rattle-Snake, . . 21Garden Work in December, 24DUNFKit.\iLINK :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER.ACROSTIC.DECEMBER, EIGHTEEN HUNDRED ANDTHIRTY-TWO.Uzp.iKTiNG Time is closely on the wing:Fmploy it well, that good‘it forth may Ijling.Compare this year with former years, you'll findEmployment much to occupy the mind.W uch lias, indeed, this year been brought about,Hey^nd what has in former years turn’d out.E v’n had our civil rights restor'd us inREFORM, which we had striven much to win.Expect not all at once this tayour nrind ;It by degrees must come, as you will find.C? et forward, then, with perseverance, andHave patience, too, you'll much this way command.^he PRESS with all its prkedoms powerful is:Employ'd with skill, 'twill forward you in this ;JE ngage a Parliairrenter, too, that willIbot fail, herein, to use his utmost skill.How-many by a Plague this year have died?Unknown before, which cannot be denied,N am'd CHOLERA, which o’er most towns has past \ IE UNFERMLINE, too, it visited, at last. 1Removing many to a hasty grave ;Ev’n though the best of skill them tried to save.Eeparted now it has from us, however ;iind now we wish it may again come never:IVo doubt it caus’d not few to mourn and weep.Depriv’d of relatives in sorrow deep;The chief supports of those they’ve left behindave much ado, and little comfort find;Jn Him let such rely who can and willRelief bestow on those that trust Him still.The time’s fast hastening on, the season's near,You wishing all a Happy Good New Year ?To strict sobriety attention pay,W ithdraw from those that would you lead astray,On which success the more will speed vour way.W. S.iTHEIIONTHLY SCRAP ROOK.THE OSTRICH.“ Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacock,Or wings and feathers to the o»trich."\JSTRICHES are tamed with very little trouble ;id in their domestic state few animals may be ren-ured more useful : for the valuable feathers whichey cast, and the eo-crs which they lay ; their skin^o used by the Arabians as a substitute for lea-ur ; and they are even sometimes made to servee purposes of horses.Mr Adamson informs us, that during-hisresidencea French factory on the south bank of the river. ig'er, two ostriches, which had been about two■ars in the factory, afforded him a sight of a veryutraoi dinary nature. These gigantic birds, thoughhung, were of nearly the full size. “ They were”lys he, “so tame that too little blacks mountedl»th together on the hack of the largest. No>oner did he feel their weight, than he began tomi as fast as possible, and carried them severalunes round the village; as it was ini possible tofop bim, otherwise than by obstructing the passage.1-his sight pleased me so much that I wished it toe repeated ; and, to try their strength, directed ahll negro to mount the smallest, and two otherstie largest. 1 his burthen did not seem at all dis_iroportioned to their strength. At first they went;7 "---T"4THE MONTHLY.'it h pretty sharp trot ; but when they becarpheated a little, they expanded their vvmg-s, as thouyto catch the wind, and moved with such fleetnethat they scarcely seemed to touch the grounlMost people have, one time or other, seen a pa]tridge run ; and consequently must know that tman is able to keep up with it : and it is easy Iimagine, that it this biid had a longer step, ijspeed would be considerably augmented. Tlfostrich moves like the partridge, with this advaJtage ; and I am satisfied that those 1 am speakinoi would have distanced the fleetest race hoist}that were ever bred in England. It is true, thewould not hold out so long as a horse ; but thewould undoubtedly be able to go over the space iless time. I have frequently beheld this sightwhich is capable of giving one an idea of the prof]digious strength of the ostrich, and of showingv.’hat use it might be of, bad we but the method tbreaking and managing it as vve do a horse.”In a tame state, these birds mav be frjequenthtseen playing and frisking about with the utmostvivacity : and in the heat of the day they are par iticularly fond of strutting along the sunny side opa house, fanning themselves with their expanded-wings, and seeming at every turn to admire andbe enamoured of their own shadows. In hot cli !mates, indeed, (heir wings are almost continuallyin a kind of vibrating or quivering motion, as i-♦designed to assuage the heat.SCRAP BOOK. ' 1THE WHALE;A ZETLAND STORY.(Concluded from our last.)The three boats destined for this perilous syl"‘ce, now approached the dark mass, which lay likei islet, in the deepest part ot the voe, and snUeredem to approach, without shewing any sign *>ilimation. Silently, and with such precaution ase extreme delicacy of the operation required, thetrepid adventurers, after the failure of their tirs!tempt, and the expenditure of considerable time,icceeded in casting a cable around the body of trieirpid monster, and in carrying the ends ot it a-(aore, where an hundred hands were instantly em¬ployed in securing them. But ere this was ac¬complished, the tide began to make fast, and the[Jdaller informed his assistants, that either the fishlust be killed, or at least greatly wounded, ere theepth of water on the bar was sufficient to floathim ; or that he was not unlikely to escape fromtheir joint prowess.“ Wherefore,” said he, “we must^et to woik,tind the factor shall have the honour to make theirst throw.”; The valiant Triptolemus caught the word ; andt is necessary to say that the patience of the whalr,n suffering himself to be noosed without resistance,Ead abated his terrors, and very much lowered thefeature in his opinion. He protested the fish hadjo more wit, and scarcely more activity, than aflack snail; and, influenced by this undue contempt>f the adversary, he waited neither for a further'signal, nor a better weapon, nor a more suitable6 TtlE 510 NT Birrposition, but, rising' in his energy, luirfed his graij,with all liis force against tire unfortunate monstertrrbe boats had not yet retreated from him, to thldistance necessary to ensure safety, when this inijudicious commencement of the war took place.Ma gnus Troil, who had only jested with tkfactor, and had reserved the launching the fir**spear against the whale to some much more skilftfhand, had just time to exclaim, “ Mind yourselveHilads, or we are all sw’amped‘” when the monstertroused at once from inactivity by the blow' of thlfactor's missile, blew, with a noise resembling tbjexplosion of a steam-engine, a huge shower of wr.ter into the air, and at the same time began to las.the waves with its tail in every direction. The boa:in which Magnus presided received the shower obrine which the animal spouted into the air ; am«ithe adventurous Triptolemus, who had a full shanof the immersion, was so much astonished and terrified by the consequences of his own valorous deed!that he tumbled backwaeds amongst the feet of thdpeople, who, too busy to attend to him, were aclively engaged in getting the boat into shoal waterout of the whale’s reach. Here he lay for some)«jinutes, trampled on by the feet of the boatmen iuntil they fay on their oars to bale, when the!tldaller ordered them to pull to shore, and lam ithis spare hand, who had commenced the fishing iso inauspiciously.Wh le this was doing, the other boats had alsopulled off to safer distance, and now, from these as:well as from the shore, the unfortunate native of ithe deep was overwhelmed by all kinds of missiles, hSCRAP BOOK. ' 7!—harpoons and spears flew against him on allsides—guns were tired, and each various means otmnoyance plied which could excite him to exhaustIiis strength in useless rage. When the animalbund that he was locked in by shallows on allsides, and became sensible, at the same time, of thetrain of the cable on his body, the convulsiveSorts which he made to escape, accompanied withrounds resembling deep and loud groans, would'(•ave moved the compasion of all but a practisedlivhale-fisher. The repeated sho#vvers which he:>pouted into the air began now to be mingled with[flood, and the waves which surrounded him as¬sumed the same crimson appearance. Meantimehe attempts of the assailants were redoubled ; but■dordaunt and Cleveland, in particular, exertedjbemselves to the uttermost, contending whohould display most courage in approaching theinonster, so tremendous in its agonies, and shouldInflict the most deep and deadly wound upon itsnuge bulk.The contest seemed at last pretty well over ;pr although the animal continued from time to•ime to make frantic exertions for liberty, yet itsitrength appeared so much exhausted, that, evenivith assistance of the tide, which had now risenconsiderably, it was thought it could scarce extri¬cate itself.Magnus gave the signal to venture upon thewhale more nearly, calling out at the same time,“ Close in, lads, she is not half so mad now—-Now, Mr Factor, look for a winter’s oil for thetwo lumps at Harfra—Pull close in lads.”8THE MONTHLYLre his orders could he obeyed, the other twriboats had anticipated his purpose j and MordaontiMertoun, eairer to distingtlish liimself above Clevc-Iland, had, v/ith tiie whole strength he possessed,Iplunged a half-pike into the body of the animal IBut the leviathan, like a nation whose resourcesiappear totally exhausted hy previous losses and ealamities, collected his whole remaining force for ateffort, which proved at once desperate and success-!fnl. The wound last received, had probabhjjreached through his external defences of blubber}and attained some very sensitive part of the systemfor he roared aloud, as he sent to the sky a minfdci isheet of brine and nlood, and snapping the strongcable like a twig, overset Mertoun’s boat with ;blow of liis tail, shot himself, by a mighty effott,over the bar, upon which the tide had now riserconsiderably, and made out to sea, earning wit!him a whole grove of the implements which liarsbeen planted in his body, and leaving behind himon the waters, a dark red trace of his course.“ There goes to sea your cruise of oil, Masteydlowley,” said Magnus, and now you mnst consame mutton suet, or go to bed in the dark.”DESCRIPTION OF THE TEA PLANTThe MacA 'Teas usually exported by European-from Canton are as follows, beginning with thilowest qualities :—Bohea, Congou, Souchong, amPekoe. The rpren teas are Twankay, Hysonskin, young Hyson, Hyson, Imperial, and Gunpowder. All the black teas exported (with chtexception of a partol the bohea, grown in Woping,SCRAP BOOK. 9i‘i district of Canton,) are grown in Fokien, a hillylaritime, populous, and industrious province, bor-ering to the north-east on Canton. Owing tolie peculiar nature of the Chinese laws as to in-Iieritance, and probably, also, in some degiee to theiespotic genius of the government, lauded proper-f is much subdivided throughout the empire ; sonat tea is generally grown in gardens or planta-itions of no great extent. I he plant comes to ma-l( nity and yields a crop in from two tothtee years.» i he leaves are pu ked by the cultivator’s family,Jiul immediately conveyed to market; where a classqt persons, who make it their particular business,i iurehase and collect them in quantities, and inanu-Heture them in part; that is, expose them to besiried under a shed. A second class of persons,nommonly known in the Canton market as “ theea merchants,” repair to the districts where theea is produced, and purchase it in its half pre-' ared state from the first class, and complete thejjiianufacture by garbling the did’erent qualities;vn which operation, women and children are chieflyI niployed. A final drying is then given, and tileea packed in chests, and divided, according tof ua'ity, into parcels of from 100 to 600 chests••ach. These parcels are stamped with the namei tf the district, grower, or manufacturer, exactlyis is practised with the wines of Bourdeaux and(Burgundy, the indigo of Bengal, and many otheriponunodities ; and, from this circumstance, get the■name of chops, the Chinese term for a seal orydgnet. Some of the leaf buds of the finest black.tea plants are picked early in the spring, before10 THE MONTHLYthey expand. These constitute pekoe, or blactitea of the bii»Tiest quality ; sometimes called]‘ white-blossoui” tea, from their being- inteimixcullwith it, to give it a higher j erfurne, a few blossom liof a species of olive (olen fragrans), a native o<!China. A second crop is taken from the samoplants in the beginning of May, a third about tin)middle of June, and a fourth in August ; whicralast, consisting of large and old leaves, is of veninferior flavour and value. The younger the 1031^the more high flavoured, and consequently thmore valuable, is the tea With some of the conn£ous and souchongs are occasionally mixed a littlipekoe, to enhance their-flavour ; and hence the!distinction, among the London tea dealers, of these!sorts of tea, into the ordinary kinds and those o«!“ Pekoe flavour.” IBohea, or the lowest black tehiis partly composed of the lower grades ; that is, o*the Fourth crop of the teas of Fokien, left unsoldin the market of Canton after the season of exportation has passed ; and par tly of the teas of thedistrict of Woping in Canton. The green teas tare grown and selected in the same manner as the;black, to which the description now given mareparticularly refers ; and the d’flvrent qualities arisefrom the same causes. 'The gunpowder herestands in the place of the pekoe ; being composed )of the unopened buds of the spring crop. Imperial,!Ihyson, and young hyson consist of the second and'third crops. 'The light and inferior leaves, sepa¬rated from the hyson by a winnowing machine, |constitute hvson-skin,-—an article in considerable jl:demand amongst the Americans. The process of :SCRAP BOOR. 1 lfrying the green teas (lifters from that of the hlack ;(the first being dried in iron pots or vases over a,‘jire, the operator eontinoally stirring the leavesiS.vith his naked hand. 1'he operation is one ofticonsiderablo nicety, paiticnlarly with the finer teas;>;md is performed by jx^rsons who make it tlietr:i;.‘xclusive business.The late rise and present magnitude of thetfiritish tea trade are among the most extraordinaryH’ohenomena in the history of commerce. Tea wasEwbolly unknown to the Greeks and Romans, andfven to our ancestors pteviously to the end of the< 16th or the beginning of the J7th century. Itsseerns to have been originally imported in smallnjuantities by the Dutcii.; hut was hardly knownn this country till after 1650. In 1660, how.-stiver, it began to be used in coffee-houses ; for, inan act passral that year, a duty of 8d is laid odlyvery gallon of “coffee, chocolate, sherbet, andfn:ea,” made and sold. But it is abundantly evi-Iilent that it was then only beginning to be intro¬duced. The following entry appears in the Diarylot Mr Pepys, secretary to the admiralty -r-“September 25, 1661. I sent for a cup of tear(a China drink), of which I had never drunkhbefore.,> In 1664, the East India Company► brought two lbs two oz. of tea as a present for his^Majesty. In 1667, they issued the first order to1 import tea, directed to their agent at Bantam, to! the eftect that he should send home 100 lbs of thei4. best tea he could get! Since then, the consump-! ition seems to have gone on regularly though> slowly increasing. In 1689» instead of charging12 THE MONTHLYa. only on the decoction made from the leaves, anexcise duty ot 5s. per lb. was laid on the tea itself.—?'[l Cut loch's Dictionary of Commerce.SCOTS BAPTISTS.It was in the year 1381, that the “ damnable here¬tic, John* Wvckliff, (denominated in modern,times, the morning-star of the Reformation), re¬ceived the cursed opinions of Berengarius,” one ofwhich undoubtedly vvas the denial of infant baptism.”1 he Baptist profession, however, did not assumea visible appearance in England, by the formationof churches in a state of separation from the world,and also from their fellow-Christians of the Paedobap-t’st persuasion, earlier than the reign of James 1.,A. D. 1600 ; but at this time they began to ob¬tain public notice, and were “ a sect every wherespoken against, ’ and greatly persecuted. In theyear IG^S, there was printed in London, “ AConfession of Faith of .Seven Congregations, orChurches of Christ in London, which are com¬monly, but unjustly called Anabaptists; publishedfor the Vindication of the i ruth, and Informationof the ignorant; likewise for the taking oil ofthose Aspersions, which are frequently, both inpulpit and print, unjustly cast upon them.”In Scotland the Baptist profession did not make in visible appearance until more than a century after+he publication of this Confession. In the year ;t {>53. a fourth edition of the Confession, with apreface prefixed to it by some Baptists at Leith,was published there, intimating that they were ofthe same faith and order with the. London churches.SCRAP BOOK. 18> Whatever these Baptists, resident in the northerni metropolis, were, as to number, whether few ori many ; whether constituting one church or more,1 their history cannot be traced ; and their unioni appears to have buen dissolved, and the church, ori churches, scattered, before the end of that century.It was not known in the year 1T6‘3, that therei existed a single Baptist in Scotland.i he present race of Scotch Baptists set ont withi adopting Christ’s good confession before Pilate,—’ “ My kingdom is not of this world” ; and the* Commission which he gave his disciples,* they con-i ceive, furnishes them with a most comprehensive1 basis for the manner in which disciples are to bej gathered together as the subjects of his kingdom in' thew'orld. In accordance with this commission, theypreach the gospel, baptize the disciples,•}• and collectthem into folds and flocks, as at the beginning,commending them to God, and the word of hisj grace. 1 hey had nothing to do with colleges oracademies ; but when any appeared among them,by the exercise of their gifts in the church, to bequalified, according to the rules laid down by theapostles in their writings, they set them .apart by| prayer aud fasting, to the elder’s office ;—and dea~i cons also in the same way. The church in Edin.burgh, at its first establishment, 1767, did not con,sist of more thau ten or a dozen members. It nownumbers between three aud four hundred. Dundeefollowed, and was set in order in 1769- In thej same year a church was formed in Glasgow ; amiin the following year another at Montrose ; a^d* Jitatt. xxv.ii. 19. •{•Acts viii. 1C, and 12. Rom. vi, 4.14 THE MONTHLYin all these places they had a plurality of pastors tolabour in the word and doctrine, and administer theordinances of the Lord’s house. Many distressingcircumstances rose up from time to time, to dis¬turb their peace, and call for the exercise of discip¬line, in order to reduce matters to the scripturestandard ; but they never, for a moment, dreamedof dispensing- with any of the appointments ofC’hrist’shouse for the sake of pleasing men—but strictly ad¬hered to the rule prescribed by divine wisdom, andfollowed out the path of duty wherever it might lead.As to their principles, they refer us to no hu¬man system as the unexceptionable standard oftheir faith. They think our Lord and his apos¬tles used great plainness of speed) in telling uswhat we should believe and practice: and hence theyare led to understand many things more literallyand strictly than those who seek to make the re¬ligion of Jesus correspond with the fashion of thetimes, or the decent course of the world. I heybelieve that the salvation of guilty, helpless sin¬ners is first and last of sovereign free grace, andnot of him that willeth or runneth.—That Jesusis the Saviour of his people from their sins—theChrist, or anointed prophet, priest and king of bischurch—the Son of God, or the word madeflesh, God manifested in the flesh, the first-begottenof the dead, and constituted heir of all things.—That by his life, death, resurrection, and ascensioninto the heavenly, holy place, with his own blood,he hath obtained eternal redemption for his peoplefrom the guilt, power, and all the consequences ofsin, and procured for them everlasting life with—SCRAP BOOK. 15himself from the dead.—That men are justifiedfreely by divine grace, without wo ks of any kind,hut solely through the redemption that is in JesusChrist, whenever they really believe, or credit thetestimony of God cnm-erning his Son ; which be¬lief is not of themselves, but the gift of God.—That all who believe and are justified, have im¬mediate peace with God in proportion tothedegreeoftheir faith; andjoyin God through Jesus Christ, bywhom they have now received the reconciliation —That the belief of the truth will work by love toGod who hath first loved us, and to those who areof the truth for the truth’s sake, which dwelleth inthem ; it will overcome the world, with all the al¬lurements and tribulations thereof; and purify theheart, not only from the guilt of sin, but also fromworldly lusts, such as the lust of the flesh, the lustof the eye, and the pride of life, i. e. sensuality,covetousness, and ambition (which to a certain de¬gree, they say, are considered as virtues in theChristian world, and even by many serious pro¬fessors.)— That in proportion as we hold fast thefaith, and are influenced by it to love God and keepbis commandments, we shall have an increasingevidence of our interest in Christ, additional towhat we had on our first believing, and thereforeought to give all diligence to make our calling andelection sure, and to show the same diligence tothe full assurance of hope unto the end. Thoughthey hold the doctrine of particular election,—of God’s unchangeable and everlasting love,—and of the perseverance of the saints ; yet theythink it dangerous to comfort people by these con-THE MONTHLYsiderations when they are evidently in a backsliding1state. in this case, they think the scripture mo¬tives to fear are most useful, and ought to havetheir full force, even the fear of falling away, andot coming short of the heavenly rest. They thinkit also unsafe in such a case, to draw comfort fromthe reflection of our h iving once believed, it beingthe r opinion, that we must be reduced to the meremercy of God, through the atonement which gaveus relief at first. These appear to be the:.' vie wsof the leading doctrines of the gospel, and ofChi istinn experience.Their church order is strictly congregational,and, so far as they can discern, upon the apostolicplan, which is the only rule they profess to follow.The nature of their union requires that they shouldbe strict and impartial in discipline, both to pre¬serve purity of communion, and to keep clear thechannels of brotherly love, that it may circulatefreely throughout the body. They continue sted-fastly every first day of the week in Ike apostles'doctrine, i. e. in hearing the scrip ures read andpreached—and in the fellowship, or contribution—and in breaking of bread, or the Lord’sSupper—and in prayer, and singing of psalms,hymns, and spiritual songs.* The prayers andexhortations of the brethren are also admitted intheir public meetings.f i hey observe the love-feast;and, upon certain occasions the kiss of charity, |and also wash one another’s feet when it is reallyserviceable as an act of hospitality. § They ab¬stain from eating blood and things strangled,• Acts 11. 41. -f Heb. x, 24. $ Koai. xvi, Iti. § John xiii. 14.SCRAP BOOK.17i. e. fi.’ h with the blood thereof; becanse thesev,; re not only forbidden to Noah and his posterity,when the grant of animal food was first made toman, but also under the gospel they are mostsolemnly prohibited the believing Gentiles, alongwith fornication and things offered to idols.* 1 heythink that a gaudy external appearance in eithersex, be their station what it may, is a sure indica¬tion of the pride and vanity of the heart: thatwomen professing godliness are not to adorn them¬selves with plaited or broidered hair, or gold, orpearls, or r- stlv array ; but with modest outwardapparel, as well as with the inward ornaments ofthe mind ;f also, that it is a shame for a man to havelong hair, however sanctioned by the fashion.As to marriage, though they do not think thateither of the parties being an unbeliever diss°lvesthat relation, when once entered into, yet they holdit to be the duty of Christians to marry only inthe Lnrd. They also consider gaming, attendingplays, rout*, balls, and some other fashionablediversions, as unbecoming the gravity and sobrietyof the Christian profession.As to their politiial sentiments, they considerthemselves bound to be subject to the powers thatbe in lawful matters ; to honour them, pray forthem, and pay them tribute ; and rather to sufferpatiently for a good conscience, than in any caseto resist them by force4 At the same time, theyare friendly to the rational and just liberties of* Gen. ix. 4, Lev. vii. 26. Acts xv. 20. 1 Feter iii. J,± Boat. xiit. 1.18 THE MONTHLYmankind, and think themselves warranted to plead,in a respectful manner, for any just and legal rightsand privileges which they are entitled to, whetherof a civil or religious nature.*It will be seen from the preceding summarystatement of their principles, that the Baptists •strictly take the Scriptures for their rule ; and con¬sider it wrong to reason upon any of the com¬mands of their Lord, or of his apostles who spokeand acted by his Spirit, with a view of ascertaininghow such a doctrine or practice would affect theirpopularity with the world, whether religious orprofane. It is quite sufficient for them to knowwhat He has taught and enjoined : and were itin the power of any of the sage doctors of the pre¬sent day to demonstrate that a particular doctrinewas contrary to reason, or an approved practicealtogether unsuitable to the refined taste of thepresent day, it would have no influence whateverupon them ; because they know that “ the wisdomof this world is foolishness with God,” and that“ what is highly esteemed among men is an abomi¬nation in his sight.” They well know that hisreligion is intended to promote a system of noncon¬formity to this world—the friendship of which isenmity with God. Thev are, therefore, no waysolicitous to accommodate matters to the reigningtaste of the age. but simply to believe as they aretaught by the holy apostles and prophets, and prac¬tise as they are bidden, or as they find the firstChristians did.• Acts xci. 37.19SGiWP BOOK.HIGHLAND CHRISTMAS.As stoon as the brightening glow of the easternsky warms the anxious housemaid of the approachA Christ mas-doy, she rises full of anxiety at the'prospect of her morning labours. 1 he meal, whichwas steeped in the soivans-bowie a fortnight ago,to make the Prechdctchan sour, or sour scones,is the first object of her attention. The gridironis put on the fire, and the sour scones are soonfollowed bv hard cakes, soft cakes, buttered cakes,brandered bamrocks, and pannich. perm. Thebaking being once over, the sowans pot succeeds'the gridiron, full of new sowans, which are to begiven to the family, agreeably to custom, this dayin their beds. The sowans are boiled into theconsistence of molasses, when the Istgan-le-vrich*or veast-bread, to distinguish it from boiled sowans,is ready. It is then poured into as many bickersas there are individuals to partake of it, and pre¬sently served to the whole, old and young. Itwould suit well the pen of a Burns, or the pencilof a Hogarth, to paint the scone which follows.The ambrosial food is despatched in aspiringdraughts by the family, who soon give evidentproofs of the enlivening effects ofthe Laqan-le-vrich.As soon as each despat* hes his bicker, he jumpsout of bed—the elder branches to examine theominous signs of the day,* and the younger toenter on its amusements. Flocking to the swing,a favourite amusement on this occasion, the youn¬gest of the family get the first “ shouder," and* A black Christmas, makes a fat kirk-yard " A wamly Christmasand a calm Candlemas are signs of a good yearTHE MONTHLYthe next oldest to him in regular succession. Inorder to add the more to the spirit of the exercise,it is a common practice with the person appointedto swing- him, to enter into a very warm and hu¬morous altercation. As the swinged person ap¬proaches the swingfer, he exclaims Ei mi tu chal,“ I’ll eat your kail.” To this the swinger re¬plies, with a violent shove Gha ni u mu chal,“ You shan’t eat my kail.” These threats andrepulses are sometimes carried to such a height, asto break down or capsize the threatener, whichgenerally puts an end to the quarrel.As the day advances, those minor amusementsare terminated at the report of the gun, or therattle of the ball-clubs—the gfua inviting the marks¬man to the “ Kiavamuchd,’’ or prize-shooting,and the latter to “ Ijiichd-vouil” or the ballcombatants—both the principal sports of the day.Tired at length of the active amusements of thefield, they exchange them for the substantial enter¬tainments of the table. Groaning under the“sonsy haggis”* and many other savoury dain¬ties, unseen for twelve months before, the relishcommunicated to the company, by the appearanceof the festive board, is more easily conceived thandescribed. The dinner once despatched, the flow¬ing bowl succeeds, and the sparkling glass flies toand fro like a weaver’s shuttle. As it continuesits rounds, the spirits of the company become themore jovial and happy. Animated by its cheering* The “ savoury haggis" (from hag to chop) is a dish common.Jy made in a sheep’s maw. of its lungs, heart, and liver, mixedwith suet, onions, salt, and pepper ; or of oatmeal mixed with thelatter, without any animal food.SCRAP ROOK. 21influence, even old decrepitude no longer feels hishabitual pains—the lire of youth is in his eye, ashe details to the company the exploits which dis¬tinguished him in the days of auld lavgsynewhile the young, with hearts inflamed with “loveavd glory ” long to mingle in the more livelyscenes of mirth, to display their prowess and agili¬ty. Leaving the patriarchs to finish those pro¬fessions of ft iendship for each other, in which theyare so devoutly engaged, the younger part of thecompany will shape their course to the ball-room,or the card-table, as their individual inclinationssuggest ; and the remainder of the evening isspent with the greatest pleasure of which humannature is susceptible.The Seaman and the Rattle-Snake.The ship Prosperity, from London, reached oneof the West India islands in May, 1806. Oneof the seamen, named Jervas, having left thevessel, wandered about the island on a sultry day,such as are frequent in that part of the globe.Being oppressed by the intense heat, and fatiguedwith previous exertions, he inconsiderately laid him¬self down to sleep, reclining his head on a smallhillock, opposite a rock about ten feet high. Helay on his back, and his eyes, after he had slept alittle, were directed, as tlie first object that metthem, to the perpendicular height before himWhat was his horror to discover, on the top of itan enormous rattle-snake, with part of its bodycotled up, and the other projecting considerablyover the precipice, with its keen and beautiful, vet22 THE MONTHLYmalignant eyes, steadily fixed on him ! He feltas if charmed to the spot The witchery of theserpent’s eyes so irresistibly rooted him to theground, that, for the moment, he did not wish toremove from his formidable opponent. The hugereptile gradually and slowly uncoiled its body, allthe while steadily keeping its eyes fixed on thoseof its intended victim.Jervas now cried out, without being able tomove, ‘ ‘ He’ll bite me ! take him away! takehim away !”The snake began to writhe its body down a fis¬sure in the rock, keeping its head elevated morethan a foot from the ground. Its rattle made verylittle noise. It every moment darted out its forkedtongue, its eyes became reddish and inflamed, andit moved rather quicker than at first. It was nowwithin two yards of its intended victim, who bysome means had dissipated the charm, and, rousedby a sense of his awful danger, -determined tostand on the defensive. lo run away from it,he knew would he impracticable, as the snakewould instantly dart bis whole body after him. 1 fetherefore resolutely stood up, and put a strongglove on his right hand, which he happened to !ia\ewith him. He stretched out his arm ; the snakeapproached slowly and cautiously towards him,darting out its tongue still more frequently.Jervas recommended himself fervently to the pro¬tection of Heaven. 1 he snake, when about ayard distant, made a violent spring. Jervas caughtit in bis right hand, directly tinder its head, andsqueezed it with all his power. It eyes almostSCRAP BOOK. 23started out of its bead ; it lashed its body on theground, at the same time rattling loudly. Hewatched an opportunity, and suddenly holding theanimal’s head, while for a moment it drew in itsforked tongue, with his left hand, he, by a violentcontraction of all the muscles in Ids hand, contrivedto close effectually its jaws!Much was now done, but much more was tobe done. He had avoided much danger, but hewas still in very perilous circumstances If hemoved his right hand from its neck for a moment,the snake, by avoiding suffocation, could easilymuster sufficient power to force its head out of hishand ; and, it he w ithdrew his hand from its jaws,he would be fatally in the power of its most dread¬ed fangs. He retained, therefore, his hold withboth his hands. He drew its.body between histhighs, in order to aid the compression, and hastensuffocation. Suddenly, the snake, which had re¬mained quiescent for a few moments, brought upits tail, hit him violently on the head, and then dart¬ed its body several times very tightiy n und hiswaist. Now was the vety acme of his dancerThinking, therefore, that he had sufficient powerover its body, he w ithdrew his right hand from itsneck, an 1 took (the work of a moment) his largesailor s knife out of his hat. He bent hislieadon bisknee, anil, again recommending himself ferventlyto Heaven, cut its head from its body, throwing thehead to a great distance. , The blood spouted vi0-lently m his face; the snake compressed its bodystill tighter, and Jervas growing black in the face,thought he should be suffocated on the spot, and24< The monthlylaid himself down. The snake a^ain rattled iitail, and lashed his feet with it. Gradually, hov1ever, he found the animal relax its hold ; it soofell slack around him, and untwisting it, arthrou4*g it from him as far as he was able, Isank down and swooned upon the bank. Some <the natives coming by, and seeing the snake, hinot noticing its head was cut off', and Jervflmotionless, concluded he was killed. Howevtthey saw at last the condition of the snake, anthat Jervas was recovering a little ; they gaVhim a little rum, unbuttoned his shirt, and Infriendly aid, in a very short time he recoveredand returned to the vessel, fervently praising thAlmighty for his wondrous deliverance.GARDEN WORK IN DECEMBER.In mild .weather continue to sow pease and beans for iSuccession. Cover your Artichokes with loose dung, t»keep the roots from frost, if omitted last month. Prunegooseberries, currants, and thin out rasps. Dig and dun|alt spare ground ; and dung and prepare borders on wallsfor young fruit trees in March, if omitted to be plantedlast month. Fasten young fruit trees with stakes]Gather all rubbish and burn it; and iu frost carry outdung.Ducembkk 1st. h.Day breaks, ...5Sun rises,  7 sets, 4Twilight ends,   <jSM JIV «r*lin. December 31st. h. m.33 Day breaks, 5 oil56 Sun rises, 8 54 !  sets, 8 /To;7 Twilight ends .() It —~ -   - " ' ”