THEAND HIS mUHIlir mUN ADI..INCLUDING AN ACCOUNT OF HISBIRTH, EDUCATION, AND DEATH..  ... ■ - ■ .I this arrow from my how,And in a wacrer will be boundTo hit the mark aright, althoughIt were for fifteen hundred pound.Doubt rot HI make the wager good,Or ne'er believe bold Robin Hood.FAMOUS EXPLOITSOFIKOBIN HOOD,LITTLE JOHN,.MONTROSE:PUBLISHED BY JA.MES WATT.3HTA;- vf i iV8TI0JfKa .90JfflOl aJTTIJyskpE TtkSKSm.qpEL8IH.M0 tVcodda v,a ovngUjP*?!.HT^aa g'^A /^oiTAobgst,> •!. “7 7 .. i t .>!won vnt moil won* roH hw'i lhiitimi ad }iiw -r c ai l»oA fjfdjjiJoAiie ,1djiis iiftq *rfl Jift oT,f>nuoq baibrtVd in' ' . l<d 9iaw IT»l>Oi^JlJ’4<fw'SiTt'95o I it 'I'fon Jib; d• IkhiH aMoil biioi avil'nl la'amO& x 7 "7. 7!|i1 .v^h‘V;V7 ' '' " • ' W,-H •• ' £ '!, ! AS •' i•*3k'7 . ^ • HMi - tii-v. •,4 mH£t ” 7 ' :9t* l,t&S 7; .•'fttcajL ' ^ X "-ns,IH'9:r(am j «o d* <*»!*» »•» »•;» ‘ •! ^'tnidollVt&rrr • • 7 .,; v; .'C<: mfeo<?i( ,j i ’‘'’-''o!?; bioj HISTORY OF|ROBIN HOOD.II KIND gentlemen, listen a while to mystory, and I will tell you the bold exploitsof the famous Robin, Hood, and his com¬rade Little John.All England was filled with the renownof Robin Hood, and the great and the va-I liant stood in fear of him. He never harm¬ed the poor, for he pitied their fate, andonly spoiled the wealthy and proud, ori nobles and slothful bishops, wdio lived instate on the fruit of the husbandman’s toil.II Robin was born in the merry town of Locks-! ley, in Nottinghamshire. His father was a3 stout forester, and kept the deer of kingJ Richard the first; his mother was niece toi the celebrated Sir Guy, of Warwick, andwas sister to Squire Gamewell, of grefclH Gamewell Hall.One day (when Robin was about fourteen; years old) his mother thus spoke to h«rspouse: ‘ My dear husband, to-morrow i@) Christmas-day, therefore let Robin and Atake a ride to Gamewell Hall this morningto see my brother, and taste his good aidand pudding. The squire was overjoyed tosee his sister, and young Robin learned tbi? use of the bow, and became the marksmani in the place.Robin's Progress to T¥ottinghasn«I Robin Hood was now about fifteen yean> old; in person tall and stout, and of a good. _ ...      -' .HISTORY OFcountenance; in courage ana strength fewequalled him. One day he determined totake a journey to Nottingham, hearing thatthe king had appointed a shooting-matchin that town, to be disputed by the bestarchers. When lie came thither, he hap¬pened to fall into company with fifteen stoutforesters who Sat drinking and laughing toi*’gether. ‘What news, what news V said-bold Robin Hood, ‘ that you drink and talkso merrily?’ The foresters who despised himon account of his youth, answered roughly,‘ We are come to win the king’s prize, whichwe are resolved to carry off, in spite of allopposition, and will not be questioned byboys.’ ‘ I have as good a bow as the best,'said Robiii Hood, -vand will contest theprize with you.’ ‘ We hold thee and thybow in scorn,’ said they: ‘shall a striplinglike thee bear a bow before the king’sarchers, that is not able to draw the string?’* I’ll lay a bet of twenty crowns,’ said Ro¬bin, ‘that I win the king’s prize, and hit th»mark at a hundred yards distance:‘ Doubt not Til make tlie wA£er £ood,Or neW believe bold Kobin Hootl.’The mark was a running hart, let loose forthe purpose ; and when the other bowmenhad tried their skill, Robin took his bow,and his well-made arrows, and taking goodaim, fairly hit the mark, at an hundred yard*distance, the multitude shouted, and hailedROBIK HOOD. 5 ;the young victor with joy. ‘ The prize ismine,’ said Robin Hood, ‘I claim it-thewager too is mine, give it me.’ ‘ rI he prize isnone of thine,’ said the fifteen foresters, ‘andthe wager shall be none of thine, lake upthy bow, insolent boy, and begone, or we willbreak thy bones.’ Robin Hood, full o f rage,/cried out, ‘ You said I was no archer, butyou have found me one, apd you now deny ^me my reward.’ x : ■»wf'CijHe then took up his bow and departed, . }but having learnt which way the foresters *must take at their return home, he repairedto the place where he had left his merry men,and, consulting together, they resolved to liein ambush in the road. After awhile theysaw the foresters approaching, shouting andsinging, because they had brought off theking’s prize; but when Robin Hood and hismen presented themselves in battle array, !their mirth was quickly changed into terrorand amazement. At first they made a showof resistance, but finding the number of theiradversaries to be more than treble their own,they threw down their arms and begged formercy. ‘You said I was no archer,’ criedRobin Hood: ‘now say so again, and let himthat chooses it fly for his life, and see if myarrows can overtake him,’ ‘We beg for.mer-ey,’ cried the foresters, ‘ lo! here is the prizethat you won, and the wager of twrenty%i•'V**' ' 'Uinf' M~'. ‘ -•*<HISTORY OFWell,’ Raid Robin, 1 as you sub-j.y, 1 grant you your lives, butKfc; qa-you shall not e.scft})e without some rewardfor your d seds.’ He and his men then strip¬ped them of tlieir clothes, leaving them nocovering but their trowrser^, and having cutoff their hair and their ears, daubed theirfaces with a mixture of yellow’ and red ; af¬terwards they bouVid tlieir hands, and tied alarge pair of antlers on each of tlieir heads,abd in this most ridiculous state, drove theiback into the town, telling them, if they of¬fered to return, they should not escape withtheir lives. As soon as they entered thestreets, the whole place was in an uproar,and what with the harking of an hundreddogs, the squalling of w’omen, and hootingof boys and men, there was such a hubbubas never before had been known in thetown of Nottingham.Robin Hood and Little John.When bold Robin Hood was about twentyyears old, he happened to meet with a jollystranger, whom he afterwards called LittleJTolm. This man, though called little, wasa lusty young blade; his limbs -were large,and his person seven feet high. Whereverhe went, people quaked at his name, and hemade all his enemies to fly before him.It was thus their acquaintance beganRobin and his men had built, in Slier-ROBIN HOOD 7I ■wood forest, a strong and secret bower, soartfully contrived and hidden among thewoods, that none but themselves could everfind them out, and to which they retreatedin cases of need. Here Robin once conti¬nued fourteen days with his merry bowmen,land then he said to them: ‘ Tarry awhilein this grove, my brave men; we have hadno sport for these inany long days, there¬fore I will wander abroad a short way, toseek some amusement. Blit do you b»attentive, and hear whenever I blow aaalarm with my loud bugle-horn, for bythiomeans I will let you know if I want yoa/?I assistance.’After he had strayed for some time nearA brook, he espied a tall and lusty strangercoming towards him. They happened tomeet on a long narrow wooden bridge, andneither of them would give way to let theother pass. Robin Hood at length beingenraged, drew an arrow from his quiver,and threatened to shoot at the stranger’s'breast. ‘You dare not,’ said the other,‘ for if you offer to touch the string, I’llbeat out your teeth, and tumble .you intothe brook. You see I have nothing but astaff in my hand, and none but a cowardwould offer to fight with weapons so dif¬ferent.’ ‘ The name of a coward,’ saidRobin, ‘ I scorn.; I will therefore lay aside‘b history ofmy tiow and arrows, and take a stout staffto prove thy manhood.’ The stranger ac7cepted the challenge, and the sport wasquickly begun. At first Robin gave theman such a stroke that it made his sidesring ; the other said, ‘ I must pay you forthis, friend, and give you as good as yousend, for as long as I am able to handlea staff, I scorn to die in your debt.’ Hethen gave Robin so hearty a knock on thecrown, that the blood ran trickling downto his ears. Robin now engager! more,fiercely, and laid on his blows so ihick andfast, that he made his adversary's coatsmoke as if it had been bn fire ; but thestranger waxing most furious and strong,at length gave Robin such a terrible side-blow, that it quite beat him down, andtumbled him into the brook. Then inlaughter he called out to his fallen foe,‘ Prithee, where art thou now, my goodfellow V ‘ Why, faith,’ said Robin, £ I swimwith the tide, as every man should do.’He now swam along to the bank, andpulled himself out by a thorn, and theftsaid to the conqueror, ‘ Thou art a bravesoul, I will contend no longer with thee.’He then took up his horn and blew suc,fy.,a blast with it as made the hills echo all a-round. Presently they saw coming hastilydown tlie hill side, a band of brave archers,ftomMo&t). 9i riothed in a livery of green; Tliey quicklycame up to Robin HoOd, and Will Stuckley,their leader, cried Out, ‘ Pray, what is thematter, godd' master ?. why, you seem wetto the skin !■ ‘ No matter for that,’ said Ro¬bin, ‘the than that stands by has, in fight-I ing, tumbled me'into the brook.’ ‘ If that! be the case, said his men, ‘ he shall notescape without a good ducking.’ ‘ Not so/said Robin Hood, ‘ he is a hearty fellow thatfought me fairly.’—‘ My friend,’ said he tothe stranger, ‘be not afraid—no harm shallbefall thee; all these are my bowmen, thatcome at my call, and if thou wilt live withme, thou shalt quickly put on such a dressas theirs; we will teach thee the use of thebow to shoot the fat deer, for we live glo¬riously, and fear not the laws.’ ‘ Then hereis my hand,’ replied the stranger, ‘ I’ll servethee with a willing inind, for I perceive'youare all brave hearty fellows. My name isJohn Little, I am a man of some skill, andat all times will play my part well.’‘ His name shall be altered,’ said Will'Stuckley, ‘I like not {he sound of John Lit¬tle, his name shall be called Little John.’Robin Hood and the ButchersOne day as Robin Hood was taking a walk: through the forest, he beheld a jolly but¬cher sitting between his hampers, on a stoutmare, going to sell his meat at market10 HISTORY OF* Good morrow, hionest fellow,’ said Robin:‘ prithee what food hast thou in thy hamp¬ers, and from whence comest thou ? for Iseem to have a liking to thy coippany,’ The•butcher replied, ‘ No matter from whenceI come, master, nor where I dwell; youmay see that I am a butcher, and going toNottingham to sell my meat.’ 0r/f!\Vi}t thousell thy meat to me ?’ said Robin ; ‘ tell methe price of it altogether; also, whqt thouwilt have for the mare that carries thee—we will not differ about the cost, for I wouldfain be a butcher for once.’ j ‘ The price ofmy meat, and the price of my mare,’ saidthe butcher, ‘ shall be twenty good marks;and I think they are nothing too dear.’ Ro¬bin agreed, and set out t^ Nottingham tobegin his butcher’s trade; and when he camethither, took up his inn next door to thesheriff’s house. When other butchers be¬gan to open their shops, he opened his ; but :was at a loss how to s*dl his meat, being so •young a butcher; howeyer he was deter¬mined not to be undersold, and he foundcustomers plenty. When the others couldnot sell a joint, Robin’s trade went on brisk¬ly, for he sold more meat for one penny thanothers could do for five, and the butcherswere at a; stand to know who this bold fel-.low was. ‘Surely,’ said they, ‘ he is some' prodigal that has sold his father’s land, andis thus sporting away his money.’ TheyROBIN HOOD. Ut then stepi>ed up to him to make acquain¬tance : ‘ Come, brother,’ said they, ‘ we areall of one trade, let us go and dine toge¬ther; the sheriff has provided a treat forthe butchers to-day, and you must go with. us.’ ‘ Agreed,’ said bold Robin, ‘ may thatbutcher be hanged that denies the request.’After dinner, the sheriff said to Robin,| ‘Hast thou any cattle or horned beasts to sell,i my good fellow! if thou hast I would fainbuy them of thee.’ ‘ Yes, that I have, mas¬ter sheriff,’ said Robin; ‘ I have eight or tenfeeore of horned beasts, that I long to haveSold, and they are fat and fair. The sheriffthen saddled his dapple grey horse, and setout with Robin Hood to behold his hornedcattle, taking with him plenty of gold to- Complete his bargain. When they came toSherwood forest, the sheriff began to be ap-| prehensive of some danger, and trembled for! fear, saying, ‘ Heaten defendns from a won¬derful bold man that is called Robin Hood,who plays a thousand wicked pranks in thiscountry, and empties the pockets of everyricli mnp Jjp r They had not g'onomuch farther before they beheld an hundredhead of fat deer, tripping along the road ;and then Robin cried out,, ‘ Look here, mas¬ter sheriff,,behold my herd of horned beasts;how like you their colour and their make ?they seem fat and fair to the eye.’ * Whatdost thou mean, fellow?' said the sheriff ;12 HISTORY OF‘ I wish I was safe out of this forest, for Ilike not thy company.’ ‘ Then will you notbuy? said-Robin Hood; ‘however since youcame hither to buy my cattle, you must paywhether you take them or not. He* thenblew a loud blast with his horn. QuicklyLittle John and his company appeared, andsaid, ‘ Pray what is your pleasure, good mas¬ter?’ Said Robin, ‘ I have brought the she¬riff of Nottingham to eat with you to-day,and I hope you will make him welcome/‘He is welcome, kind master,’ said John j‘but I hope he will honestly pay for cooking.’Robin now bade the sheriff dismount, andtaking his mantle from his back, quicklytold out his gold; he then took him to hisbower, and feasted him well; afterwards heset him again on his dapple-gray horse, andbrought him back through the wood. ‘ Com¬mend me to your wife at home, my kind sir,’said Robin; so he went laughing away.Robin Hood and Allen Adale.As bold Robin Hood one day was standingunder the green Oaken-tree, he espied agallant young man, clothed in scarlet andwhite, who came tripping along the road,singing’a roundelay. He seemed in greathaste, and quickly was out of sight. Nextmorning Robin Hood beheld the same yoiingman coming over the plain, but his carriagewas totally changed; he now passed slowlyROBIN HOOD.13$ong, and his head hung drooping uponhis breast. Little John stepped towardshim, to know who he was, but when the‘youth saw him coming, he bent his bow andsaid, 4 stand off, thou bold forester ; whatwouldest thou have with me?’ 4 You must'come} before bur rnastbi',? he replied,.4 who isstanding under the green Oaken tree; comewithout delay, and no harm shall‘befallthee.” And when he was come beforeRbbin Hood, Robin said to him, 4 Hastthou any money to spare for my merry menand me? come'answer without fear.’ 4 In¬deed! have no money to spare,’ said theyoung man; 4 I have but fiv.e shillings anda little gold ring, and this ring I have keptfor these seven long years, to present to mybride on my bedding day. Yesterdayhlshould have married the maid that I love,but she was chosen to, be an old knight’swife, and taken from hie by force: there¬fore my heart is nearly broken !Robin Hood now set out, with fifty stoutarchers in his train, nor did they stop tillthey came near to the church where Allenshould have been married. He then con¬cealed his men, while he wept boldly intothe church. 4 What dost thou here, boldman.?5 Said., the bishbp t 41 am a merryharper,’ said Robin, ‘as good as any in thpnorth.’ 4 0 welcome then,’ said the bishop,*" for that music is Vriy delight.’ Presently14 HISTORY OFthere came in a wealthy old knight, leadinga young damsel by the hand, of a fair, thoughsorrowful countenance,dressed inher glitter¬ing attire. ‘This is not a fit match,’ saidbold Robin Hood, ‘ the bridegroom is muchtoo old and uncomely; but since I am hero,and the bride is prepared, she shall nowchoose her own mate.’Robin then took his horn and blew twiceor thrice with it, at the sound of which hisfifty stout bowmen came leaping over thechurch-yard,, and the first man was AllenAdale, who gave bold Robin his bow.‘ This is thy true lover,’ said Robin ; t come,take her, and be married before we depart,‘ That never shall be,’ said the bishop,; ‘ thy.speech is too bold, and the law requiresthat they be three times a^ked in thechurch.’ Robin Hood then pulled off thebishop’s rich apparelfjaqdJ,p.ld C- PP9n Hit"tie John, and made him appear like a priest.‘ By my faith,’ said Robin, laughing, ‘ thatclothing becomes, thee well; thou nowlookest like a man and a bishop';, .therprfore begin thy office.’ When Little Johnwent to the. desk,. the people began to ilaugh, and seemed to enjoy the joke ; he ;asked them full seven times over to make :the banns sure, lest three times should not jbe enough. * Who gives this fair maid to tAllen Adale for a wife?’ said Little John. ,i«I give her to him. with all my heart,’ said IROBIN HOOD. 15I Robin, and he,/that dare to oppose, or takeher away from her spouse, shall buy herdearly.’ Thus ended this merry wedding1,and the new married pair returned 'withRobin Hood to Sherwood bower. jRobin Hood and his Kinsman.I LUO? rHJ JS! 1 j .iJlI/JiH Clll IU .As Robin walked about the forest one day,jhe met with a comely young man, dressed| i}i a doublet of silk, with scarlet hose, tra¬velling boldly along with a stout bow in hisi hand. A herd of fat deer happened to bei feeding not far distant, which, when thestranger saw, he bent his bow, and shot thei best of them through the heart. ‘ Wellishot, well shot,’ said Robin Hood, ‘ thyijaim was good and sure; I like a bold ar¬cher well; and if thou wilt be one of mycomrades, and live in my bower, I will treat; thee with noble.entertainment and pay theewell besides.’ ‘ Go talk with thy gran-!: dame,’ said the stranger, {and make no| such offers to me, or else I shall use thee| Somewhat rudely.’ /Thou hadst bettor bef quiet,’ said Robin, 4 for if thou shouldest1 offer to make an assault, thou wilt dearly: repent of the deed ; my arm is not weak,i and thou mayest see that I carry a bow ;: besides, though I am now alone, should Ij blow an alarm with my loud bugle-horn, Ij should quickly havo at my command an’ hundred brave men.’ •< I defy all thy power,*, 16 HISTORY OFsaid the other, ‘ and if thou offerest to touchthy horn, my good broad sword shall cut itin two, and strike thee to the dust.’ Bold, Robin Hood then bent his stout bow, and; stood ready to shoot at his foe; Thaitrangef;also took his strong bow, and as. readily, stood on his guard. ‘ Prithee let us holdour hands,’ said Robin Hood, ‘ for if weattempt to shoot, one of uS must infalliblydie; let us now lay aside our bows, andtry each other’s skill with bucklers andgood broad swords- These rivals in- skillthen fought stoutly and boldly, and manya hard blow resounded upon their bucklers.The}7 aimed their strong blows above andbelow, from the head to the feet, but nei¬ther of them could make the other giveway. Robin Hood at length gave thestranger such a mighty stroke that it madethe fire fly from his eyes, and almost de-, prived him ofdu& senses. ‘I hope to give; time a blow,’ said the stranger, {that shallshame all the rest, aftd put an end to- thefray. Then presently taking good aim withhis sword, he struck Robin upon the head"with such force, that the blood fcoon ap-i pea red, and ran trickling down his cheeks.‘ By my faith,’ said Robin Hood, ‘ I- mustnow beg for quarter; prithee, my bravefellow, tell me who thou art, and what isthy name, for I love and respect- a braveman.’ The stranger answered, ‘ I wasROBINS HOOD. 17bom and bred in the town of Maxfield, andmy name is Gamewell; I am forced to flyfrom home, and to hide myself for havingkilled my father'p steward, who had falselyaccused me ; and I came to this forest toseek a bold uncle of mine, who goes by thename of bold Robin Hood.’ ‘ Art thouthen a cousin of bold Robin Hood V an¬swered he, ‘bad I known it before, ourfight would dmve been sooner done.’ * Onmy life,’ said the stranger, ‘ I am his firstkin, and son to his mother’s second bro¬ther, who now lives at court with the king,; and for gallant deeds he performed in Pa¬lestine, he is soon to be made a noble peer.’1 When Rqbin heard this he embraced himi with great joyj and soon let him know thathe himself was his uncle Robin Hood.[They then set out for the green shadybower, and met Little John by the way.Robin Blood & Bishop of SflerefordRobin Hood and all his men were nowoutlawed, because they had broken the fo¬rest laws, (which were veiy severe) and hadkilled the king’s faf deer.As Robin walked out one fine sunamer’sday, when the fields were pleasanfand green,and the birds sang sweetly in the bushes,he was tempted, to wander beyond the skirtsof the forest, far away from his bower; andas he was thinking of going back, he was18 HISTORY OF ;espied by the proud Bishop of Hereford^who was passing along with a great com¬pany. * 0 what shall I now do V said Ro¬bin to himself.' ‘ If the bishop should takeme. I shall be hanged without mercy.’Then Robin turned nimbly about and rantoith full speed to; the house of an old wo¬man, whom he knew : * Good woman,’ saidRobin, ‘I pray'you lettaein, for yonder isthe bishop and his men, and if I am taken,I must die.’ ‘ Why, who art thou,’ said theold woman ? ‘ I am Robin Hood—canstthou not recollect me?’ ‘I think I nowdo, and I will provide for thy safety.’ ‘ Thengive me thy female attire, and put thee onmy livery of green,’ said Robin, * and giveme thy distaff and spindle, and take mybovr *When Robin Hood was thus arrayed, hereturned to the wood, and Little John see¬ing him, cried, * Behold, who is yonder, thatseems approaching this way? the old wo-;man looks like a Witch, and I will send anarrow to meet her.’ ^ ‘ Hold thy hand,’ saidRobin, ‘ I am thy hiaster in disguise, andthis habit I was forced to put on to escapefrom a strong enemy, who had me in chase.’Now in the mean time, the bishop wentto the old woman’s house, and cried, ‘Bringthat traitor Robin Hood, that I may makehim pay the forfeit of all his bad deeds.’The old woman then came out dressed likeRobin, and the bishop placed her upon aROBIN HOOD. Idgrey stead, while he rode laughing along forjoy. But as they were riding through theforest, in which their road lay, the bishopespied an hundred tall bowmen coming outof the wood. ‘ O, who are these men ? saidthe bishop,.' ‘ and; who is that man that leadsthem so boldly?’ ‘ In good faith,’ said theold woman, I ‘ I think it is Robin Hood.’‘ Then who art thou ?’ said the bishop. ‘ Iam only a poor old woman,’ said she, ‘ hastthou any occasion for me now?’ RobinHood ooming up, took the bishop by thehand, and placing him upon the stump of atree, made Him tune his voice, and sing afull mass to all the company; afterwardsi they brought him through the wood, and! having set him upon his horse with his facer towards the tail, they charged him for ever1 to pray for Robin Hood; and putting thei tail in his hand, bid him begone.I Robin Hood and the 3 Yeomen.s As Robin Hood wandered about the fields: one day, he met a fair lady who'bame weep-!‘ing along the road,' in great distress.-- ‘ 01 why do you weep so pitifully,’ said Robin,! ‘ and wdiat is the cause of your great dis¬tress ?’ ‘ I weep.’" she replied, ‘ for the sor¬rowful fate of three brothers, ^the bravestand dearest of men, who'are all condemnedto die.’ ‘ What church have they robbed,’said Robin, ‘ or what parish priest have7.M .HISTORY OFj they killed ? or have they in treason beencaught against the rightful king ?’ ‘ Woeis rhe !’ said the lady,;’ ‘ far my brothers must' die, and only for killing the king’s fallowdeer.’ f They shall not die,’ said bold Ro-, bin Hood ; ‘ therefore go your way quicklyhome, and I will hasten to Nottingham forthe sake of your three hapless brothers.’Robin Hood then set out to Nottingham,and in his way met with a poor beggar-man,who came walking slowly and mournfullyalong the highway. ‘ What news, my oldman ?’said Robin, ‘ what news dost thoubring from the down ?’ ‘ Oh ! rthere is weep¬ing and •wailing in Nottingham: town,’ tciiedthe old beggar-man, ‘ for the sake of threeyeomen who are condemned to die, for theyare greatly beloved.’The beggar had a tadterOd old coat uponbis back, which Was neither green, yellow,nor red, but some of every colour; and Ro¬bin Hood thought it would be no disgrace! ‘for once, to be in;the beggar’s drese.: ‘Come,pull off thy chat, my old beggar,’ said he,‘ and thou shalt put on mine,, and 30 shil¬lings beside, I will give thee to buy breadand beer.’ When Robin was thus arrayed,away he went to the town, and soon foundthe sheriff and bis. men, and likewise thethree sorrowful yeomen, who w'ere going todie, ‘ One favour I humbly beg,’ said boldRobin Hood to the sheriff, ‘ that I may be■ROBIN .HOOD. 21ijithe hangman when the three jeomen are toijaie.’ ‘ Tig granted with free goodwill,’11 said the sheriff,; ‘ therefore go and preparethyself .for thine office, for-they have butf w hours to live.’I Robin then returned to his brave band ofarchers, whom he brought and placed in'ambush near the field where the gallows! was fixed; afterwards going again to thei sheriff, the three yeomen were led to theijappointed spot. ‘ Now begin thine office,Iiy jolly hangman,’ said the sheriff, ‘ forlese yeomen no longer must live; andiou shalt have all their good clothing, and11 their money besides.’Then Robin mounted the gallows, withis horn in his hand, which he sounded loudnd shrill, when quickly came marchingver the field, an hundred and more of hislithful bowmen, all clothed in green;Whose men are all these,’ said the sheriff,that come marching so boldly this way?’0 these are all Robin Hood’s men,’ saide, ‘ and they are come to fetch me, andkewise to take the three yeomen, who areping to die.’ ‘ 0 take them, pray takeiaem, without more ado,’ said the sheriff;yfor there is not a man in all Nottingham■hat can do the like of thee.’22HISTORY OF:iiiSi.09'7 ->1 li.J JiUiIva f/ >aiaRobin Hood & the Tinker ofBanbury.In summer time when leaves were green,and birds sang merrily on the trees, RobinHood set out to Nottingham in disguise,and as he went along the road, he overtooka jolly tinker. ‘ Tell me whence thoucomest, my jolly fellow,’said Robin, ‘and inwhat town thou wast bred V ‘ I come fromBanbury,’ said the other, ‘ where I was bornand bred, and am a tinker by trade.’ ‘ Now,*said Robin Hood, ‘ tell me what news thouhast heard in thy travels.’ ‘ All the latenews I have heard,’ said the tinker, ‘ relatedto a bold outlaw, who is called Robin Hood;the king has given out warrants to appre¬hend him, and I have one in my pocket totake him if I can find him; and if thoucanst tell me where he is, and assist me tos&ize him, £100 or more will be our reward.’‘ Let me see the warrant,’ said Robin, ‘ thatI may know if it be good, and I will do thebest I can to assist thee in taking him thisvery night.’ The tinker replied, ‘ I shallnot trust the warrant out of my own hand.’When they came to Nottingham, theyTrent to a good inn, and calling for strong ;Jale and wine, the tinker drank too freely, •!'and knew not what he was doing, when IRobin took the warrant and left him to |pay all the reckoning. When the tinker .•dSOBiKH HOOD, f 28•awoke in the morning, and found,that his.' comrade was gone, 'he’1 called' for the hosland said, ‘I had a warrant from the king,to take a bold outlaw called Robin Hood ;but now my warrant is stolen from me, andSj I have not money enough to pay the score*ij for the man that came with me last nightis fled; therefore tell me what’s to pay,and I» will leave my tools till I return/ The tinker4 soon learnt that Robin Hood frequented theI parks, Away then he went, and found Robinchasing the deer in the woods. ‘ Whatbpld knave is that,’ said Robin, ‘ that comes;i so freely to hinder my sport.’ ‘ No knave1:1 am I,’ cried the tinker, ‘ and that you shall} know to your cost; which/of us have doneTi wrong my crab-tree shall decide.’ The tin-i ker and Robin then fought manfully, but at) length the tinker thrashed Robin’s bones so. >; sore, that he made him cry for peace. ‘ Onei favour I have to beg,’ said Robin, ‘ and thouI must grant it me.’ ‘ The only favour I willgrant,’ said the tinker, ‘ is to hang thee on atree.’ Robin now blew his horn, when Lit¬tle John and Will Scarlet came and enquirediwhat was the matter? ‘ Here is a tinker,’issaid Robin, ‘who has thrashed my bones sore.’IWhen they heard this they were going to;t throttle him, but Robin said, ‘ Our quarreli shall cease, and we will be friends;’ so the1 tinker agreed to live with them, and Robin.1 dlowed him £50 a-year to spend as he liked -24HISTORY OF, &fc.nriT +E<ft fmrtol hnn ,'aflimOXff 'Jill ill oioWHROBIHr HOOD’S WEATMAnd now I must bring my stories to aclose, and the death of valiant Robin Hood!Robin fell ill, and because he required tobe treated with skill, he went to Kirk leyAbbey, where they sent for a monk to Meedhim, and this monk being eager to get ^the reward the King had set upon Robin’shead, treacherously bled him to death.Thus he that never feared a sword or abow, or any man that lived, was baselykilled, in letting of blood, and died without"*'a friend to close his eyes. As soon as hismen heard of his death, they were filled ]with grief and dismay, and fled away inhaste. Some of them crossed the! seas, andwent to Flanders, some to France, andsome to Spain and Rome.E PIT A PdlTof twad I -mo]Inscribed on his Tombstone, at Kifklees, in Yorkshire.fbear unirerneafr laitl 0tcanaaO Kotjcrt 0?arl of ^untinatunNoa arrtr Dfv as ftte 6or geuiian pipl «auiD tm Botun ilicuijutlato^ a& t)i an mmVi\ (SttgianD ntbtr 0t agentf&fmt 24 6al. Sfkctnbn^. 1247.