«ri—h—it—ir~ir—.1—ii—I.—i-r——ii—h—v—ir-%r—'TOOOOOOOO'OOOOOOO[o I " -[o THE WIDOW’S SONfo Raised from Death,—OOCOOO’gg OOQCOO —ALECTUREL°[°oooooo'oo'oooooL°ooboo[o[ofoONLuke vii. 11,--16.Delivered before the Presbytery ofFordoun, Kincardine-Shire,December 5th. 1804.By THOMAS GIBSON,NOW MASTER OF THE GRAMMAR-SCHOOLOF FALKIRK. —*  FALKIRK:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.1815.O 000000-0000000W I'M° T°3o]o]o]o]°Jo]°]°3°]o]o]oj°1o]o]03°3ojojo]o]o]o]o]ALEG TOREONLuke vii. 11, «§c.And it came to pass the day after, that hetee?!I into a city calledNain; and many,of his disciples vent with him and much-people. 12. A o'Uj ’alien he came nighto the gate of the city, behold, there teasa dead man carried out, the only son ofhis mother, and she teas a teidotv r andmuch ,people of the city teas with her.13. And when the Lord saw her, hehad compassion on her, and said untohei, W eep not. 14. And he come andtouched the Her, (and they that bare himstood still: J and he satd, ! hung man,I say unto thee. Arise. 15. And he that"a us dead, sat up, and began to speakand' and he delivered him to his mother.—l6. And there came a fear on all: andthey glorified God, saying, That a greatProphet is risen up among us; and.That God hath visited his people.The Miracles of our Saviour wereuniformly works of mercy and compas¬sion. That in the passage now read, iseminently so; and evidently points outJesus as sent from Goo, to be the Savi¬our of mankind. In every age andcountry, IVliracles> we bave beenallowed to be the most convincing prootof- a divine mission ; though many havepretended to such a power, who couldnot produce evidence, to the thoroug iconviction of judicious and candid spec¬tators, that they acted under the imme¬diate influence of heaven. A Miraclemay be defined an extraordinary andwonderful effect, above the power ofnature, wrought by God, to manifesthis sovereign controul over it, or togive credit to some messenger sentiromhimsetf. Thus Jesus Christ evincedthe truth of his divine mission; as Ins( 5 )prototype Moses also did. Their mi¬racles indeed were of a very diilere*:tnature, and adapted to the no less dif¬ferent dispensations, tinder which the-rwere wrought. Whilst the latter Struckterror and amazement into the minds ofthe Egyptians, those of the former werecalculated to shew the love he has forhis people, his feeling for their affliction vhis readiness to relieve them, and hisability to save. Perhaps none of ourSaviour’s miracles, if we except his raid¬ing Lazarus from the dead, display morepowerfully his overflowing goodness ofheart, and his sympathy with others,when in distress, than the one to be re¬viewed ; and perhaps there is not a sub¬ject which the Evangelists have relatedin terms better calculated to excite pityand call up every generous and -tenderfeeling of the mind. We have onlyto read the account of it, to be in lovewith its Author. Every word in thedescription of it, is big with salutaryinformation, and points out to the feel-mind something that is new, strikingor instructive.Lkt ns then Uke a view.of the leadingparticulars of this affecting story, .as theyare narrated by the Evangelist. Andthe first thing that offers itself for ourconsiderationj is the person, on whoseaccount the miracle was performed. Itwas a disconsolate mother, who had losther only sou. The loss of a beloved childis^aii afHictiye dispensation at any time,andsits hard upjn the minds of affec¬tionate parents. But when our childrenhave survived the troubles incident tochildhood, and fatal to thousands, thentime and acquaintance have endearedtheir conversation, to us. 'When we havenot only enjoyed the innocent amuse¬ments of their childhood, but are de¬lighted with the flattering prospectswhich their youth promises: When wefondly hope that as they increase inyears, so they will grow in favour withGod and man: When we have begunto conceive just hopes of their futureattainments and prosperity, after a fewyears more shall have matured them foracting, with suitable propriety, theb' re¬spective parts in the world 5 thema final adieu at such a n" Jcd, is what( 7 )parents can seldom ^hink of, but withthe greatest reluctance. To see-all theirfond hopes blasted ; the pains they havebeen at in rearing the tender thought,in teaching the young idea how to shoot,in pouring fresh instructions o’er thetender mind, and in instilling into itthe principles of piety, benevolence andtemperance ; I say, to have all theirflattering and laudable expectations cutoff for ever, is truly pitiable.But in the present instance we aretold, that the dead person was the onlyson of his mother -, which rendered heran object of greater commiseration.—The grief for the loss of children, isoften alleviated by the reflection thatthere are some left behind, or others not'improbably expected to succeed in theroom of those that are taken from us.But in this case there was no remnantleft,, to mitigate or to supply the lossof this disconsolate mother; and whatheightens this climax of distress, is*St. Tube’s informing us, that she wwia h idbto A state this of all othersthe most 'n*endless and forlorn; and'(«}For tins reason frequently mentioned inScripture as that which God receivesinto his more peculiar protection. Thiswoman had previously, it seems, lost herhusband, and in his loss her cares weredoubkd. Bereaved of him, she is de¬prived of .her stay and support, her shieldand protector. And if any comfort be¬longs to this forlorn state, it most com¬monly arrses from the children, who areleft behind. They remain so many livingimages of a deceased husband. Theysucceed to his cares, and in some degreetill up his room, by comforting and as¬sisting a solitary mother. They are thearrows in the hand of a mighty man, todefend aged parents from violence andoppression; they enlarge the interestsof a family, and enable it to beer upagainst.any adversaries that may contendwith it. Deprived of the companion ofher youth, how anxiously would she nodoubt view her son, her only son, andlook forward to that period, now thatTns father was goue, when he would be.able to shield and protect her, and amplyrequite all the pains she had bmn at onhis account. We may sujm-se her often( 9 )praying, that Gon would be pleased tcprolong his days, to keep him from theevils of the world, and to make him usefulin his day and nation. Suppose him nowarrived at manhood, and not only ableto support himself, but also to assist her,who had been to him insteau of a father,as well as an affectionate and indulgentmother. With what pleasure would shedwell on the prospect, that in the declineof life, when her arms became feeble,and the infirmities of old age wrere grow¬ing fast upon her, this her son, her onlyson, would be able and also willing toassist and protect her •, and by his filialattention and nameless gentle offices^,cause her evening sun go down in a se¬rene sky. How passionately she lovedhim, we learn from the original; andhow in him all she held dear upon earthcentered, we can easier imagine thanexpress. And as we may reasonablysuppose, that he was a promising youngman, and died with a fair character, whocan conceive the extremity of her grief,when their delightful intercourse wasbroken off in an untimely hour, by thehand of the last fee, and this her onlychild, in whole life her own was bound up-,foatehed from her by a premature death,■and with her fon all her bright profpedls,lute the bafclefs fabric of a viljon, wereforever vanilhed ? How would -her toofull break be ready to burk with themost pbiggant sorrow, when she beheldher son, to whom she was so closely at¬tached by the tenderest ties of affection,stretched on the cold bed of death ? Thensvhat bitterness would her heart not know ?.Would she not be ready, in the first tran¬sports of her grief, to arraign the Provi¬dence of God, and, in the bitterness ofher soul, to call his goodness in question ?See her in the attitude of the thost heart¬rending grief, posted at the bedside of herdeparted son, exclaiming, “ Have I livedto see you, the son of my vows, the stayof my widowhood, the staff of my age,the delight of my eyes ; you that was onlylovely aud dear to me upon earth; haveI lived to see you snatched from me inthe very bloom of thy years? Have lnourished and reared you up with *o muchcare, only so prematurely to add to thenumber of the dead ? Why art thou cut offa\ the midst of thy days, and I, thy d-s-( 11 )consolate mother, left behind ? Naked andexposed to the stoaras of adversity, whoshall now shelter me from the fury of thetempest? Had you been taken from meere ever a course of reciprocal endearmentshad wreathed thee so closely around myheart, thy loss would have this day beenlighter upon me. To have you torn fromme at the time when I was expefting pre¬sently to realize all my fond hopes, whichyour fair character and vigour of youthwarranted me to entertain, is almost in¬supportable. O my son! my son! WouldGod I had died for thee! O my son 1my son!”Yet, sensible that her grief, howeverpoignant, could not recall the departedsoul of her son, she summons up the re¬mains of her strength, and prepares, amida number of her mourning friends, to paythe iast duties we owe to humanity. Andnothing now remained, but that of takinga last farewell, in consigning his relics toth e house appointed for all living. But letus here observe the astonishing goodnessof God to this Widow. While she ison her way to the grave of her son, aud•• - 1 , ..4,. • itb!( 12 )passing through the gate of the city”, themerciful and compassionate Jesus meetsher, and says unto her, JVeep not. Hersituation was not unknown to him. Heknew the tender feelings ef her heart, withwhat pious care she had reared her son,and what pleasing prospects she entertainedof his protection and friendship in the valeoflife. We are told, J^sus had compas¬sion upon her, and said unto her, Weep not.In this her mournful situation such anaddress from a stranger, when her griefwas at the height, and her dead son boroebefore her eyes to his grave, might appearimpertinent, and as an insult offered to hersorrow. And in any other person, butour Lord, who was alone possest of powerto turn her mourning into joy, it wouldhave been so in the extreme. “ And Jesuscame and touched the bier, and they thatbare it stood still; and He, at whoseAlmighty fiat the worlds and the universewere brought into exiltence, said, Yount*3Jan, I toy unto tbee> Arise.” And nosooner does the commanding word issuefrom his blessed lips, than he the was dead,burst the Lars of death, sac up, and beganto speak* And he delivered hini to his( 13 )mother.” How joyfully would fne receiveher son that was dead, and her gratitudeto her divine Deliverer would appear inher every look, whilst her heart would hetoo big lor utterance ? We are not indeedinformed, that the mother made any replywhen her sou was delivered to her ; yet,we may conclude, that by her grateful de¬portment she convinced our Saviour, whoknew what was in man, that she was notunworthy, for whom he had wrought thismiracle. Well might there come a fearupon all that saw this wonderful and asto¬nishing sight; well might they glorify Gob,and say, “ That a,great Prophet was risenup among them, and that God had visitedhis people.” Such are the circumstanc*scf this affecting story, and such was thedeliverance afforded. And should any havethe impiety to assert, that the whole wasa trick, and took place as had been previ¬ously planned by the three persons princi¬pally Concerned in this surprising relation;I would only desire them to consider, thatthis Widow was entirely unacquainted withJesus, whom, till now, she had never seen;2nd,eventho’ she Had,what motives, I ptay,could have induced her, or her son, to act( 14 )such a part, as they did, in order to addto the already growing fame of our Saviour?Besides, what 'will go a great length, if notwholly convince every candid mind, thatit was no trick or deception, is, that noteven the most inveterate enemies whomJesus or his infant religion had to contendwith, once called the authenticity of it inquestion, which assuredly they would have- done, had there been the least grounds, onwhich whereon to rest such a presumption.Let us now leave the happy mother andher friends magnifying the goodness andpower of Jesus, in ^storing her son, whowas dead, to life, and improve this narra¬tive by making a few useful reflectionsupon it.And in the first place, let us contemplatedeath as an event, the period of which isvery uncertain. The Scriptures speak ofour condition in this world in the mosthumiliating language: “ Man,” say they,“ walketh in a vain shadow.” Human lifeis compared to “ a vapour, (James iv. 14 )that appeareth for a little time, and thenvanisheth away.” And when they describe4 15 )it in its beft eRate, they only liken it toa common “ flower cf the field;” which,though it comes forth frefh and beautiful,fo that Solomon, in all his glory, was notarrayed hke one of them, yet continuesbut for a little; atid, if fuffered to reachthe end of its fhort duration, we fee it fade,filed its leaves and wither away. But, ascf flowers, fo of mankind, very few dropinto the grave like a fliock of corn in itsfeafcn. ,Ior furely we need not be informed,that death fpares no age. The experiencecf every one.will furnifh him ivith inRancescf perfons cut ofl in all periods of life.—Some have fcarcely crofled the threlholdcf life, when their eyes are fhut by thechilling hand of des'h. How many toocan we recolle<5t, who begun with us thec&reer of life, with profpedts as fair, andhopes as fanguine as ours, whofe flrengthcf confutation promifed a length of healthydays, who are now numbered with the clodsof the valley, and, like the widow’s fon,cut off by a premature death ? In Ihort,the child of a fpan long, the bloomingyouth, the man of middle age, with him ofmany years* are all mingled together, infad affemblage, amorigft the abodes of the( i<5 )dead! Nay, how many around ua, andbefore us, by bidding adieu forever to ailbelow the fup, teach us a lelfon, which,one ihould imagine, would never be for¬gotten ? The misfortune however is, thatman, fooliih and infatuated man ! atls, asif he alone was immortal, whil'd he looksupon all around him as fubject to mortality.Shall we continue always deaf to the voiceof Wifdom ? Will neither the inftru£U6nsof the living, nor the more folemn warningsof the dead, beget in us ferious thoughts ?Shall we continue to lengthen our prolpects,when, perhaps, we are (landing on the brinkof the invifible world ? We know not whata dajr may bring forth. The morning hasfmiled upon multitudes, who ere the me¬ridian fun have ilept the fleep of death.Who knows how foon fome of ua maybe ft (led before the tribunal of God ? forwe have no power in the day of death, ar.dthere is no difeharge in that war.2dhy Since life then is fo very uncertain,and the thread thereof breaks at every blall,let us be exhorted leriouily to conftder ourlatter end. Let us often red cl on thathoule, which is foou to be the abode of( i7 )U3 all; and, with the Patriarch of old,*<! Say to corruption, Thou A't my father;and to the worm, Thou art rny mother,and my fitter.” Let every night we liedown, reprefent to our imagination thataw ful period, when our fouls fhall put offtheir robes of mortality, and wing theirflight into the prefence of their Creatorand Judge ! And let every morning remindus of a future day of retribution, when ve{hall give an account of the dseds donein the body, before God, our Saviour,angels, and an afiembled world ! Suchthoughts will furely make us feriouflymeditate upon our mortality. Let us aflt,as in the prefence of God, at our hearts,whether we could, without fear and tremb-ling, appear before the tribunal of Gob,,the Judge of ail, were we to be addreffedas the rich man in the Gofpel, “ This nightthy foul lhall be required of thee.” Iffrighted nature recoils and is appalled atthe thoughts of inflant diffolution, let ustake a review of ocr pau lives, and com¬pare them wnh the Law of God. Let usredeem our former mifpent time, the fadremembrance of which is calculated tohumble us in the cull. If our pad traaf-( *8 )^rt/Tians confound us with the number andaggravation us inflantiy andwithout delay prahrate ourfeives beforehim in deep humility snd {'eir-abafement.And, mourning over the fins of the yearsthat are pad, let us believe in a crucifiedRedeemer, who gave his life for the finsof the world, and- for his {*ke arid thro*his merits implore companion and forgive-nefs from the Father of mercies. Let usnnot give fleep to our eyes nor Humber toour eye-lids, till we hav§ made our peacewith God. till we feel within us that peacewhich psfieth underflanding. By thus fa-miliarifing death to our minds, the gravewill gradually lofe its terrors.In thk Third place, We may fee the follyof placing cur affections too much uponthe tranfuory things of this paffing fcene*The widow loved her fon, which was verynatural and commendable, and her errorlay in her loving him to excefs. Her mindand affedtions were inordinately fet uponKim, and Heaven in its wifdom took himfrom her, and in his death punifhed herfor her good. Yet as the Lord does notaHiCt any but for their prefent or future( *9 )good, lie, in the multitude of his tendermercies, had companion upon her. Let usa: fo be ware of fettmg our affections too much-upon the tranfient and perilhable thingsin this world ; but let us lay up treafuresin heaven, which will never fade away,hor it is the language of infpiratioil,That God will not give his giory toanother, nor his praife to graven images.^And our Saviour exprefsly fays, Ttiatwhofoever love-th father, or mother, orfiller and brother, or wife and children, orhoufe. and .land, more than him, is notworthy of him,” And w'hat Otould we beadvantaged, if we gained the whole world,at the expence of our immortal fouls f .Lastly, The refurredtion of this youngnfan to life, is a faint emblem of the glori¬ous and triumphant refurreftion of the juftto eternal life. This life is indeed a lifeof trouble, but let us alfo remember thatit is of Ihort duration. Our days are fewasd full of evil, and the moment is at nogreat diftance, when all fublunary joys andforrows with regard to us fhall be, as iftSey had never been. Was death to clofethe feene forever, and to prove (as the( )Infidel reformers of a neighbouring nationwould have us believe) an eternal fleep,Chriftians in fuch a -cafe would be of allmen the moll miferable. But, blefled beGod, we have the ftrongell evidence tothe contrary, the cafe will admit of. TheScriptures of truth affure us, that bej'ondthe grave a happy eternity awaits all tljofe,who by a patient continuance in well doingfeek for glory and immortality. Let theChriflian therefore look through aR hissffliiSlions beyond the prefent fcene, andlift up his eyes to the everlafling hills,and anticipate that happy day that fhallplace him beyond the reach of woe. Lethim reflect on the inexpreflible delight,of which he (hall participate, when an in¬habitant of the regions of the bltfled!There, theue fhall be no more crying;and tears, and forrow, and ftghing fhall■fly away forever! And nothing fhill bewanting to crown his happin'.fs, but therefurrection cf his body. How gloriousand joyful will his refurredtion be, whenhis foul {hall be reunited to Ks body, thenclothed upon with immortality ! Let us notgrieve then (as in the cafe before u$) forthe lofs of departed friends, as thofe who( 21 )have no hope, but let us rftnember, thatthey are net loft forever; for that Christwill on the refurre£tion-d*y fummon themand us from the cold beu of death, neverto part ror know difeafe, pain or troubleany more. “ For, if we believe that Jesusdied and rofe again, even fo them ado,who fleep in Jusus, will God bring w’ithhim.” And if, as we may reafoaably fup-pofe, we fhall be known to cne-another,with what tranfport of joy frull death-divided friends embrace each other, andafeend with the triumphant Captain cftheir falvation to the marftons preparedfor them in his and their Father’s houfe 1How confolatory rauft it be to every piousfoul mourning the lofs of deareft friendsto know, that, thus it will be ere long!“ For yet a little while and he, that lhallcome, will come, and will not tarry.”, ' -AOn the other hand, the refurreclion fhallprove fo the wicked the beginning of trou¬bles; for they too fhall be raifed. It willbe. however,only to endlefs mifery and woe!And to them all the troubles and afHi&Lns,which they may have etidured while onearth, are only the fad forerunners of never-( 22 )ending torments in that place, where theworm dieth not,-and the fire is not quenched!Such {hall be their d#om, wh^n Christ flialijudge the world irt righteoufaefs, and renderunto every one according to his works.They {hall be banished from the prefenceof God, of the Limb, of angels, and ofjuft men then made perfect, into the abidesof horror and defpair!To conclude, If the refurre&ion of the juftulher them into fuch joys as eye hath notfeen, nor ear heard, neither entered intothe heart of man to conceive; let us beftedfaft, unmoveable, always abounding inthe work of the Lord ; forafmuch as weknow, that our labour is not in vain in theLord; And, if that of the wicked is theprelude to every thing that is dreadful,even the blacknefs of darknefs for ever;are they not without underftanding whowork wickednefs ? >Let us therefore fo ferioufly cpnfiderthe uncertainty of human life, as with theutmoft diligence to apply our hearts tothat heavenly wifdom, whilft here, which,through the merits of Jesus Christ, mayfinally terminate in everlafting life.Aveh.( 13 )TWO PARAPHRASES.V^l..    us>4   CcJJ^Heb. iv. 14, to the end.■\X7HERE high the heav’nly temple fiands.The lioufe of God, not made with handf,A great High Priefl our nature wears,The guardian of mankind appears.3 He who for men their furety flood,And pour’d on earth his precious blood,Purfues in heav’n his mighty plan,The Saricur and the friend of man.3 Tho’ now afcended up on high,He bends on earth a brother’s eye;Partaker of the human, name.He knows the frailty of our frame.4 Our fellow-fufferer yet retainsA fellow-feeling of our pains;And ftill remembers in the IkiesHis tears, his agonies, and cries.5 In ev’ry pang that rends the heart,The Man of forrows had a part;He fympathizes with our grief,And to the fufl’rer fends relief,,6 With boldnefs, therefore, at the throne,Let us make all our forrows known;And afk the aids of heav’nly pow’rTo help us in the eyjl hour.1C 24 ]EcCL^f ASTES ix. 4, J, 6, JC.j/Vs long ns Hie its term extends,Hope’s bleli dominion never ends;For while the lamp holds on to burn.The greatefl (inner may return.2 Lite is the fcafon God hath giv'nTo fly from hoi I, and rife to heav’n;' That day of grace fleets fa ft away.And none its rapid courfe can (lay.3 The living know that they mud die;But aril the dead forgotten ly:Their mem’ry and their name is gone,Alike unknowing, and unknown.4 Their hatred and their love is loft,Their envy bury’d in the duft;They have no (hare in all that’s doneBeneath the cir cuit of the fun.5 Then, what thy thoughts defign to do,Still let thy hands with might purfue;Since no device nor work is found,Nor wifdcm, underneath the ground.6 In the cold grave, to which we hafte,There ara no acis of pardon psft;But fix’d the doom of all remains,And everlafting lilencc reigns.FINIS.  — <,IoIHtK—'X' 'Jcbnjton, Trintcr.