No. VIII. ^ rice One Penny.BATTLES OFtyuatre liras 4* Waierloa,^..7 , r r~/7rTT^~~7,r^77~ — —rnv^A SELECTION OFAMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVE 'PAMPHLETS;COMPRISING-LIVES of GREAT WARRIORS & STATESMEN,BATTLES ON SEA Sc LAND,HISTORIES of DIFFERENT COUNTRIES,ACCOUNTS OF WONOERFVE EVENTS, SINGULARCHARACTERS, an* NOTORIOUS OFFENDER'S.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS, COOKERY, &C. &C.EDINBURGH:J'mK.Tun FOR THE BOOKSEI t^RPyjp/ R. Aflardtce,y 1828,RATT Iil< S OPHran 4' IP' (tierloo.No event ever struck Europe, we may say theworld, with such wonder ami astonishment, as thesudden appearance of Napoleon Bonaparte on thecoast of France, in March 1815,—his subsequentjourney to 1’aris—the diminutive force with whichhe engaged in this undertaking, and the rapid suc¬cess which, at first, attended his ambitious designs.With little more than 1100 men, in the space oftwenty days, did this extraordinary character findhimself in possession of the French capital, andof that throne which he abdicated about twelvemonths before, ft is not our intention to followhim through all these events but only to give acircumstantial account of the battles of QuatreBras, Ligney, and Waterloo.But, before proceeding, we shall give a shortdetail of his leaving Elba, and his journey throughsFrance to Paris. On the 26th Fehruarv, Sri-jK)leon reviewed Ins little army in lifba, coifSlsthi^of 70) men of his old guard, 300 (’orsieatis, and140 Poles. His fleet consisted of a brig Mount¬ing 26 guns, and 6 small transports. With thishandful of men, he invaded a kingdom containing26,000,000 of inhabitants. At eight o’clock theyembarked, the firing of a gun being the signal ofdeparture; and they sailed from the harbour en¬thusiastically shouting “ Paris or death." On the1st of March they entered the gulf of Juan, at ashort distance from Frejus. Previous to theirlanding, he ordered his men to throw the cock¬ade of Elba into the sea, and presented them withthe national colours, amid shouts of “ The Em¬peror for ever.” At Digue and Cunnes, the pea¬sants flocked from every quarter to join his stand¬ard. Leaving the main body of his troops be¬hind him, he proceeded with only 10 horsemen,and 40' grenadiers, and arrived at Gap on the 5thMarch, where he issued his first proclamation,thousands of which were distributed through thecountry ; and rousing the spirit of the army, bvreminding them of the battles of Ulm, Austerlitz,Jena, Eylau, Friedland, Tudela, Bckmuhl, Ess-ling, Wagram, Smolenkso, Moscow, Lutzen,Worken, Montmiral, &c.On the 6th, Napoleon hastened to Grenoble,but at the village of Mure, he met the advancedguard of the troops from that place who were tooppose him When he was informed that his pro¬gress would be contested, he resolved to put inpractice a ruse-dc-gverre, which does infinite credit*to his talents tmd courage. He proceeded towardsthe royal troops, accompanied' only by two orthree officers. When he arrived within pistol-shot, he alighted and advanced to jhe right of the4baflnliotl, and baring his bosom, thus addressedthem :—“ Behold me ! If there is one soldieramong you who wishes to kill his Emperor, ledhim come forward from the ranks and fire uponme.” The effect was instantaneous. The armsof every soldier was hurled to the ground ; theyeagerly tore oft'the white cockade, and enthusiasti¬cally mounted the national colours, while the airresounded with cries of the ” Emperor forever !”After halting two days at Lyons, Napoleon de¬parted for Paris, where he arrived on the 19thMarch.The journey of Bonaparte from Cannes to Par¬is, has no parallel in history. Every soldier sentagainst him joined his force. Where resistanceseemed for a moment to he threatened, it was dis¬armed by the sound of his voice. The ascendan¬cy of a victorious leader over soldiers,—the talentof moving armed multitudes by a word,—the in¬extinguishable attachment of an army to him inwhom its glory is concentrated, and embodied,was never before so brilliantly and tremendouslyexemplified. It is, in short, an event of whichthe scene could have been laid by a romance wri¬ter, hold enough to have imagined it, in no othertime and country, than France in the year 18 5.On the 13th June at night, Napoleon quittedParis to place himself at the head of his troops,and advanced on Belgium. The different corpshad been united in tlie neighbourhood of Beau¬mont, where he found at his disposal 120,000 ofthe best soldiers of France ; of whom 95,000 werecavalry, and supported by 300 pieces of artillery.Bluqher with 80,000 Prussians occupied Charle¬roi, and the left hank of the Sambre; and Gene¬ral Bulow, with 30,000, was cantoned betweenLiege and HanmU. The Duke of Wellingion’sbtflcl <pi;irters was at Brussels, in live neighbour¬hood of which his armj was so disposed that itcould be concentrated in 24- hours. The first corpswas commanded hv the Prince of Orange; thesecond, by Lord Mill; and the reserve, underGenerals Picton and Cole. The army underWellington, consisted of 38,000 British; 8000of the German Legion; 14,5t0 Hanoverians; andthe Belgians, Brunswick, and Nassau troops,amounted to ^2,000, making a grand total of82,000 men, of whom lo,000 were on garrisonduty.On the 15th at day-break, the advanced postsof the Prussians were attacked near Thuin, butwere forced to retreat, and sufifered considerableloss from the numerous cavalry of the French.At Charleroi they made a stand, and attempted todefend the passage of the Sambre, but being close¬ly pursued, they Were unable to destroy the bridges.Napoleon commanded this attack in person, andthe town was taken ami re-taken several times ;but about noon the French established themselvesin it, leaving advanced 15 miles. At Fleurus thePrussians having received considerable reinforce¬ments, and Blucher commanding in person, it wasdetermined to retreat no farther. The Frenchmade many impetuous attacks on this position,and the contest was continued till sunset, whenthe French retired to Charleroi, and Blucher oc¬cupied Sombref. In this first action, more than1000 prisoners fell into the hands of the French,i’he advantages thus gained, induced the soldiersto believe that they were once more invincible,and their confidence in their leader returned, andwere ready to follow him even to the cannon'soumth. 'I’he Duke of Wellington, and most ofthe British officers were at a grand ball, given by0th'e Duch<vss »>f Richmond, wUen i-ntfiligencc nr-roivd ol tlic advance of the French. Blucher’sdispatciies announced it as an affnir of tiie outoosls.Onieas were immediately issued to the troops tohe ready at a moment’s warning. At midnight acourier arrived. Ids horse covered wiHi foam, an-doiincing that the affair had become serious—thatCharleroi was taken—that the French had ad¬vanced to the position which Blueher had deter¬mined to defend, and that a general engagementwas expected next day.—The drum immediatelybeat to arms, and in less than three hours, everyre giment was on the road t® Charleroi. The Dukeof Wellington attended by his staffF and somesquadrons of light horse, having arrived in front ofQuit re Bras, fee commanded the Prince of Vt ie-mar, to join him with his forces, while he awaitedthe coming of the regiments from Brussels,The first ami second corps of the French army,under Marshall Ney, were ordered to advance onQnatre liras, and attack the Brstish ; while Na¬poleon with his whole force, went against thePrussians. Profiting by their numbers, the Frenchattacked sotne-hsttedions of the British who wereseparated from the main body, and almost anni¬hilated them. A corps of Belgians was orderedto edvance with the 4.£d regiment, to assist anotherdetachment, and whether occasioned t y the ardourwith which that regiment rushed to the fight, orthe reluctance of ihe Belgians, the two battal¬ions were seperated, and a coin,mu of French lan¬cer*, who were lying in ambush, concealed byhedges, and high standing corn, rushed upon them.Colonel Macara ordered the, regiment which wasadvancing to form into a square ; hut in perform¬ing this evolution, two coiBoanies were in -(lieact of falling in, w lien tire lancers charged,7in a mom&nt cut them to pieces. Encouragedby this, they charged on the square, and succeededin cutting down great numbers. The Coionclwas killed; and the Lieutenant-Colonel, who wasalso wounded by a musket ball, rallied the regi-mejnt, and awaited another attack. The lancersagain rushed furiously on, and though repulsed,did much execution. rl he Lieutenant-Colonelfainted from loss of blood ; and the next seniorofficer took the command. Again the lancers pre¬cipitated themselves on the Highland*vs, but nota man thought of retreating; ami it was not untilthe regiment was reduced to less than a tenth ofits orignal number, that the enemy was put toflight. The Prince of Orange was surroundedand made prisoner ; hut a battalion of Belgiansrushed to Ins relief, and rescued him from the ene¬my. The Prince tore ofi' the ensignia of his. orderand threw it among them, exclaiming, “ There,my brave fellows! you have all deserved it.”They fastened the star to tlveir colours, and shout¬ing, “ The Prince for ever!” swore to defend itto the last man.Protected by their numerous cavalry, and artil¬lery, the French succeeded in forcing the Britishpositions, and penetrated to the village of QuatreBras. Some, squadrons of Brunswick horse, hadattempted to stem the torrent; but were rapidlyforced to retreat, and were closely pursued by theFrench through the village, when the 92d regi¬ment, which lined a ditch, poured oh the French,who were almost: at the muzzles of their guns anunexpected volley, which destroyed every man inthe direction of their fire. The few who were inadvance rushed on and reached the spot whereWellington was stationed, but they were to a maneither killed or taken. The Odd how leaped fromstltK ditrli to charge in their (urn. As tlieV rose avolley «as poiiFed wjKnt them by tt mass oi intaot.ry- The stalT of the regimental colon vs was shat-ifred to pieces, ami the Ensign shot through theheart ; hut the impetuosity of that“^regifnentwas itot to he restrained. The enemy was pro-K'Cted by a house and garden, which they clearedand pursued the them to the skirts of a wood.In this short space of time, the 92d lost 800 men,j jr:nd 4commanding officers was killed or wounded.The 8!3d regiment, after suffering severely frommtillery, was broken by a eliarge of cavalry, anddriven into a wood with an immense loss. TheTrench followed, and were making themselvesmasters of the wood, when the guards arrived onthe field, and though worn out with hunger and'fatigue, having marched nearly twelve hoots, theyformed into line-—charged the enemy, r and drove. them again into the-plain ; hut their line had be¬come irregular, and on coining from the wood, adivision of infantry was ready to receive them.The guards waited not to form into line, but dart-< d forward to the new contest. The French re¬coiled from the shock; but Sty seeing that theywere unsupported, ordered his cavalry to chargethem. Alt atteni|>ts to form a square was in vain,and they retreated into the forest. Protected bythe wood, they rallied and poured on them a de¬tractive tire, and sent them in disorder from thefield.The IhSth regiment -was attacked by a largehotly of cuirassiers and lancers, and being quickly1formed into a square, long fired from three sides,.•me on the lancers,.’and the other two on thecimassKTs: In vain lh*y charged upon them, hotjvfthongb great numbers tell, no •opening was teffim' the cavalry to pent Irate , and at length hv-their9rincessant, deliberate, and rotiuderous fire, tbt’gcompletely repulsed them. After this they ad¬vanced in square against a mass of infantry, pier¬ced their centre, and routed them; then deploying,they charged in line, and cleared the front of theskirmishers which covered the retreat of the mainbody. All was now complete confusion with theenemy.On the morning of the 10th June, Napoleonadvanced against Blucher, withfan army amount¬ing to 80,000 men. At 3 o’clock in the afternoon,the engagement began by the division of GeneralLe Fol attacking the village of St Amand, andCarrying it at the point of the bayonet. GeneralGeraud proceeded to attack Ligny, and here amurderous scene commenced. The troops of Na¬poleon .succeeded in establishing themselves in pailof the village, while all their efforts could not drivethe Prussians from the remaining part, and thePrussians were unable to dislodge their opponents.Every house was fortified—every hedge became amilitary station. The combatants were so in con¬tact with each other, that they had scarcely roomto manoeuvre, and as the ranks thinned on either,side, the void was filled with fresh troops. Thisscene continued 5 hours ; and quarter was neithergiven or taken. Nearly 200 [jieces of cannonplayed on the village the whole afternoon, aridscattered destruction amid the troops, who filledevery part of the place, till at length the deadformed a, defence for the combatants. At one timevictory inclined to the Prussians. Blucher led ona battalion of infantry in person, possessed himselfOf the village of St Amand, seized on a heightfrom whence the Prussians had been driven on anearly part of the day, and once more establishedhis batteries there, which had a most destructive10on the squares of t!ie Frpncli. X^polpon,sep-ig ?lie imporfanoo of this position, clispatclioil«oUirm> after colnntn against it, till at length tho 'Fiuasians were forced1 to retire, ami the French,possessed them selves of it, from whence they couldnot he dislodged.The fortune of the day was now evidently infavour of. Napoleon, The Prussians slowly ye-trented, and often turned upon their foes, and re¬pulsed their impetuous charges. In one of .theohar^t's of cavalrv- which now took place, BlucJteriiad o narrow escape. Having fed on one of theregiments to the charge, which was unsuccessful,his horse was struck by a musket-bali* mid fell.ftlucher was stunned by the vioicirec- of thefall. The French cuirassiers charged by him atfull speed, and perceived him not in the ardour ofpursuit. The Prussians missing him, turned onthe instant, and made a charge so furious as torepel the French beyond'where he lay, and relievedhim from the perils with which-he was threatened.The whole of the Prussian army was now in fullretreat, and at 10 o'clock the firing had completely•eased. The loss of the Prussians in this battlewas from 1 o,0(X) to 20 000 men. The Frenchacknowledged their loss at .‘3000, hut the actualnumber was nt feast 12,000.At 8 o’clock of the morning of the- 17th, theBritish and-alHed armies, were imder arms, whena courier arrived with dispatches tor the Duke otWellington, announcing the retreat of the Prus¬sians upon Wayfe. In consequence of which a' retreat was ordered, and before 11 o'clock thewhole army was on the great road which leads tatbi> forest of Soignies. For a considerable timeNapoleon was diverted with the appearance ’p! thestrong- fear-ffuard he saw at the entrance of theinwood, which he trtoV for the twain body of theBritish. At lengtli his troops marched forward,and, to their utter astonishment, found that thearm)' had retired, and were then considerably inadvance on the road to Brussels. In their march,the wind blew extremely load, the rain fell heavyand incessant, and the roads, which were coveredwith a thick clay, could scarcely be traversed evenby cavalry, which rendered their retreat slow andfatiguing. The honour of being rear-guard wasconferred on the 7th hussars. This regiment,formed into 3 squares, and placed at equal dis¬tances from one another, retired alternately at awalk, during which their skirmishers were warmlyengaged with those of the enemy. Their mode offighting was done in a very spirited manner. Thefirst squadron, facing the French horsemen, gavetheir fire, and retired behind the third; the second,following the same manoeuvre, retired behind thefirst; and the third behind the second, and' so bn,keeping up a front, and an almost constant fire onthe enemy. At 5 o’clock, the British army ar¬rived at its destined position. The extremity ofthe right wing was stationed at Merke Braine, amithe left on the rising ground above the hamlet ofTer la Haye, with the view of keeping up a com¬munication with the Prussians. The night of the17th was dreadful. The rain fell in torrents, «ndthe most brilliant Hashes of lightning ever seen il¬lumined the adjacent scenery. The soldiers wereup to the knees in mud. In the morning theirlimbs were stiffened by the cold and wet, and theywere unable to move. ^Notwithstanding the fury of the weather, Napo¬leon brought up his army during the night, andhis artillery conshfcing of move then ‘,’(10 pieces.When he came into the field tg the morning, heI uurtArgx nna^n lai ivtmc • mry—trm»£p“iii^n v >Srr -121eicpre'>scd much surprise that the British had main¬tained their ground, and exclaimed with joy, “ Ah !I have them, then, these English.’''After some skirmishing between the picquets,,.the French commenced the engagement with afurious attack upon the wood and garden of Cha¬teau Hougoumont, which was occupied by GeneralBing’s brigade of Guards. It was a point of par¬ticular importance to the enemy to gain this post,as it commanded a great part of our position ; andaccordingly it was furiously and incessantly assailedby large aud reinforced bodies. Napoleon himselfdirected a charge of the Imperial Guards againstit; hut even fighting under the eye of their leaderthey were broken, repulsed, and finally cut topieces, by the British Guards. In the meantime,to prevent Wellington ffom sending reinforcementsto Hougoumont, the action was briskly commenced - Ithrough the whole line. Columns of French in¬fantry and cavalry, preceded by artillery, advancedfrom every point, ascended an eminence on whichour troops were placed, and precipitated them¬selves on their squares. In vain the French ar¬tillery mowed down whole ranks of their oppon¬ents; the chasms were instantly filled, and not onefoot of ground was lost. “ \Y|,at brave troops !”exclaimed Napoleon, “ it is a pity to destroy them,but I shall heal them at last/’A strong body of the enemy advanced, amid thedestructive tire of the British artillery, withoutdischarging a shot, determined to carry the posi¬tion. Sir Thomas Pictou waited not for their at¬tack, hut, forming his division into a solid square,. advanced to the charge. The French were ep-palled by this boldness; they hesitated, fired avolley, and,then fled. Sir Thumps Pieton receiveda musket hail injhi* temple, and died^qn the spot,sarong rear guuru ne saw at me entrance m meA column of 4000 bore down on th« position oc¬cupied by the 92d, which was now reduced to 260men. They did not wait for the attack, but, form¬ing themselves into line, charged on the centre ofthe column, and broke through it. The ScotsGreys, profitting by the confusion, dashed in atI the opening. The two regiments cheered eachother, shouting, Scotland for ever!” and thewhole were either destroyed or taken prisoners.A body of Trench cavalry now advanced, with thecuirassiers at their head, to save their infantry ;but the Greys being reinforced by a brigade ofheavy dragoons, a most dreadful engagement ofcavalry now' took place, when they again forcedthem to retreat with the loss of 2000 men, and twoimperial eagles. The standards were wrested fromthem, on one of which was inscribed the names of.Tena, Austerlitz, Wagraul, and Friedtand, it be¬longed to the 45th, called the fiivincibles ; theother belonged to the 104th. Serjeant Fwart,’ofthe Greys, took the one; and Corporal Stiles, ofthe Royals, took the Other.Napoleon again changed the object of his attack,and, bringing up a numerous body of fresh troops,directed them on the farm of La flaye Saint.This was a point as important to carfy as eitherthe position of Hougoumont or Tef La Haye. Ifhe was successful here, he Would break the Britishline, and cut off' the retreat of Wellington to Brus¬sels. Both parties felt the importance of thisposition, and nobly exerted themselves, the one tocarry, and the other to defend it. As the respec¬tive battalions engaged were weakened or destroyed,perpetual reinforcements occupied their places. Atlength the ammunition of the Allies was expended,and the enemy penetrated to the farm. Yet eventhen tlie German Legion scorned to yield ;—-theyM uuiurat liriargrrfaCRrt* jiirrirrcr ern* Vrrrr?^ *rrv>rv14desperately tlpfentlcd tHenisf“]ves wItIi thr bayonet,nor was the position carried uhlil ail its Jd'enfiefshad ceased to breathe.Fortune now seemed to smile on the French.Napoleon seized the advantange with promptness ;and, pressing on with immense masses of infantryand cavalry, attacked the centre, which was ex¬posed. The cuirassiers and lancers rushed on atthe head of the columns, and precipitated them¬selves on the British squares. A few battalions,who were slow in their evolutions, were cut topieces; but when the squares were formed, theenemy could make no impression. In vain, withunexampled courage, did the French cavalry walkround the British squares to dash in at the leastopening. Numbers of them rushed on, and noblysacrificed themselves by receiving the fire of theiropponents, while the main body waited to chargewhen they were reloading their pieces, or filling upthe chasms. Some squadrons of the French pene¬trated through the squares, and desperately chargedthe position which the Duke of Wellington andhis staff occupied, intending to signalize themselvesby bis death or capture. His personal e.-cort wasfrequently engaged with the enemy.The British cavalry now took part in the action,and fiercely charged the cuirassiers, lancers, andchasseurs, who had penetrated the line. Theywere at length driven from the eminence whichthey had carried, the farm of La ITayc was taken,and the combatants again occupied their formerpositions. * .-f. . . *yLord Somerset, noticing the proceedings of theenemy, who now coolly walked their horses roundand round our infantry, and interrupted the fire ofour artillery to some extent, immediately proposedto Sir John Filey to lead his brigade against them,sirons rear ^uartt ne saw as me entrance ol me—-Permission was according!v ohtainrd of the Ctvrti-m.lnder, and Sir John resolved to areompany hftn.This brigade, consisting of the first and secondregiments of life-guards, the first regiment of dra¬goon guards,, and the blues, setoff at foil speed,and crossed the ridge with, so much force and fury,that the cuirassiers, notwithstanding their weightand armour, and the power of their horses, werealtogether unable to withstand s hem, being literallyrode down, both horse and man, while the strengthof our soldiers was no less conspicuous when theymingled and fought hand to hand. The Frenchconsequently fled, and in their flight hundred's ofthem were forced over an old quarry, where theyroiled, an nndistinguishable mass of men andhorses. Sir John Elley was himself distinguishedfor his personal powers :—He was at one time en¬circled by several of the cuirassiers, but being afall and powerful man, he cut his way out, leavingsome of his assailants on the ground, marked withwounds, .which evinced the uncommon strength ofthe arm that infhcted them.In the middle of the conflict, the Royals, Greys,and Enniskillens, with Sir William Ponsoriby aittheir head, Hew past, dispersing other divisions hitheir course, arid,' with a temerity of which we haveno example, thre w themselves along a train of ar¬tillery of 80 pieces, causing the. cannoneers to aban¬don their guns, and for some time intinsulatihg allwithin their view. But the French General Mil¬haud, with his cuirassiers on the one side, andGeneral Traveie eouun<r round on the other withthe 4lh regiment of lancers, felt upon them —then,indeed, in the midst of (he cannon, which was thesubject of dispute, commenced a contest, to whichhisfory can produce lew parallels nor can theboldest imagination picture any thing more ter-rible !—every sokUer on either side seemed to re¬member nothing but the glory of his country :when, by dexterity or good fortune, he had cutdown his opponent, his eyes glared around in searchof one worthy of his victorious arms !—The wholemight be called a series of single combats, in whichthe noblest blood of the rival armies profuselyflowed, and horses, wounded or dead, lay on everyside in the greatest confusion—Victory at last de¬clared for our cavaliers. The royals and Tnnis-killens drew in their reins, and returned to theirmemorable stance ; but the greys pursued, cuttingtheir way through the enemy’s lines; and of thisthere cannot he a doubt, for the following day,several of them were found lying beside theirhorses, a considerable way even beyond their se¬cond line. In this imprudent, though brave pur¬suit, the gallant Sir William Ponsonby lost his life.The fire of our artillery was soon after this re¬sumed, and again abandoned, as circumstances re¬quired. The operations proved always dreadful tome advancing and retiring French. Their cannonwas likewise terrible to us. When the momentpermitted they were let off, and being in someplaces ranged within the space of a few hundredyards, carried devastation to the very heart of oursquares. “ Yet, under such a fire,’’ said a generalofficer, “ did these gallant men close their filesover the bodies of their dead and dying comrades,and resume, with stern composure, that close arrayof battle which, their discipline and experiencetaught them, afforded the only means of defence."There now commenced an uninterrupted seriesof attacks, through the whole line, but principallyon the centre, sometimes with infantry, at othertimes with cavalry, and then with both united;w hile nearly three hundred pieces of arfilltry playedrI 7every part of llie Brilisi't jK^idon. Theslaughter was dreadful; yet it would have Ihcugreater ha<t not the ground been thoroughly soakedwith the rain. On this account the shots seldom'rose alter they had once touched the ground, andthey never hounded along as when the ground is<1ry. The shells likewise frequently burled them¬selves, and when tlmy exploded, produced no othereffect than casting up a tremendous fountain ofmud.The combat had continued with unabated furyl nearly six hours, and almost one third of the alliedforce was killed or wounded. The Prussians solong and ardently wished for, did not yet arrive.The Duke began to fear that they had been em¬ployed or defeated by the French corps which hadbeen left to observe them.In maintaining our position, and when the l>ukeof Wellington saw that uncommon efforts were ne¬cessary, he had frequent recourse to his encourag¬ing tone of speech His short phrases arc still n! the recollection of the officers who were near him,and repeated with a proud feeling of the time andremembrance of the place where they stood. OnI hearing the balls whistling about him, when in rearof the tree, which will be known by his name togenerations after us, he said, with the coolness of aspectator, who was beholding some well contestedi sport, “That’s good practice; I think they firebetter than in Spain and- when many of his besti and bravest friends had fallen, and lire results ofthe battle doubtful, to those who remained he said,“ Never mind, we’ll win the battle yet.” In sur¬veying other parts, where, perhaps, was themightiest pressure for the time, he would speak< with sik-lt confidence, as never faded to rouse theenergy oi even drooping minds—giving them spiritISto.tneet Uieu* numerons opponents, anri^stiength totight them with etibe and success. On one occa¬sion, he rode up to 9:7th, theii in front of the line, alittle to the left of La Haje Saint, and seeing themon the point of receiving the charge of a column ofFrench, said, “ Stand fast, 95th, we must not bebeat; what would they savin England Thenplacing himself at their head, charged and repulseda very superior force. As to the cavalry, it wouldhe difficult to say which of them excelled ; but hethat as it may, by their unit*d efforts, they boredown their veteran enemy, although clad in mail,and in possession of that high mind which devotedthem to honour and their country. In the conflictof La iielle Alliance the-Marquis of Anglesea wasfrequently with the life guards. At the com¬mencement of a charge, he would say, “ New forthe honour of the household troops !” and as often*had lie occasion to praise them for their valour—the dragoon guards and blues were equally gallantin the important fijrht. “Louie," he would sav atother fanes, to those about him, when viewing therommiijis,charge? of the Scotch greys, the royalsand Knuiskiilens, “ those brave feilows will getthemselves cot to pieces.” The light cavalry wereexcellent in pursuit, and were sc&i'ceJy ever unsuc¬cessful, even in their encounter with the enemy'sheavy horse : hut their chief employment was inpursuing cavahy, when broken by either of tireIjeavy brigades, as then), a dragoon was heard tosay, “ we had nothing to do, you know, but toride with them and work awav.”The reserves of the Duke of Wellington werenow all in action, and the French reserves werenot yet brought forward. His troops were dimi¬nished in numbers and worn out with fatigue.The brave Scotch division was reduced ii«ru six-It)thonpaixl l:o Ipsa ihan Iwo thousnndl mfti 'I’nosixth division l»ad been almost, destroyed withouttirin" a gun. The spirits of the soldiers began todroop, and it required the utmost exertion o| theoificers to prevent them from yielding to despair.They scorned the thought of retreat; they «ereeven eager to be led against the enemy : but thusto stand and be murdered without resistance, wasmore than they' could ix'ar. They were tired ofhaving nothing to occupy their attention, but thedreadful roar of the artillery,—the fall of theircompanions around them, and the mournful criesof the wounded. An indifference of life wasfast spreading through their ranks, and they re¬signed themselves to their fate, without an effortto avoid it. The mind of the British commanderwas a prey’ to the most anxious suspense. Hefeared that success was more than doubtful.Should another hour pass, and Blucher not ap¬pear, the battle was inevitably lost. Yet he wascoo], collected, and apparently cheerful; andwhile one regiment continued at its post, he wou-dnot resign the contest. An ade-de-camp nowcame with the information that the fifth divisionwas almost destroyed, and that it was utterly im¬possible that they could longer maintain theirground. “I cannot help it,” said he, “they mustkeep their ground with mvself to the last man.Would to God 1 that night or Blucher were come.”Napoleon was furious at the obstinate resist¬ance of the British. He incessantly took snuff inlarge pinches from his waistcoat pocket, violentlysnuffing up lialf, and throwing the rest from himwith a strong extension of the arm. “TheseEnglish arc devils,1 said he, “ will they never hrbeaten ?” A moment afterwards he added, “lshall beat them yet, hut it is a pity to destroy such20 it)t‘sv<> troops.’’ He then turned to Soolt. “ Howwttl tlrese Rriglisft fight ! but they nnist soon giveta ay; don’t you think so P” Soult, .who liadt-ohie t'xptrience of’ British courage and firmness,replied, tl a>, “ He doubted whether they wouldever give way.’’ ‘‘Why?'” quickly and some¬what indignantly asked Napoleon. “They willsuffer themselves to he cut to pieces first,” was theanswer which terminated the conversation.The frequency and impetuonsness of his attackswe .re now redoubled, ami be began to expose him¬self to the thickest of the fire. Although no cre¬dit is to be given to the accounts of the desperationwith which Ite sought every danger, and his ap¬parently firm determination to die upon the field,yet he evinced much personal courage, and wasalways collected, and in full possession of thefriexhaustahle resources of his genius. Seeingtlw guide frequently flinch at the shower of shotthat fell around them, he said, “ Do not stirmy friend; a bail will kill you equally in theback as the front, and wound you more disgrace¬fully.”An officer now approached with the intelligencethat the Prussians were advancing in the rear ofJiis right wing. Napoleon would not believe thepossibility ol the fact; but when he heard the fir-«f the Prussian light troops, and saw some of theirbattalions debouching from the woods, he sudden¬ly turned pale, but said not a word. For a whilehe mused in silence. He felt the critical situationin which he now’ was placed, and not believingthat the main body of the Prussians could comeup for some hours, be hoped that success was yetin Ids power. He determined toattack the weak¬est part of the British line with his whole concen¬trated force, and tbusendeavom to beat the Duke21before his re'm/orcements could arifve; T.eavjn2T,tlierefore, the sixth corps to keep the Prussian,1}in check, he brought forward the whole of the cuv,airy of his guard, and directed it on the centre ofthe British position. The shock was irr-sistibhr.The allied armies gave wav; the heights were car¬ried, and several of the guns were in the power ofthe French. But the Duke of Wellington was onthe spot, anil all was soon repaired. He placedhimself at the head of some English and Bruns*wickers. He addressed to them a few sentences,which he well knew how to inflame their ardour,and led them against theenemy, whov flushed withsuccess, were proudly advancing to the very rearof his lines. In a moment the victory wa^s re¬scued from their grasp. The artillery whichthey had taken was abandoned in haste, and theyfled with precipitation.•, In the meantime the tjoops of Count Loluuhad repulsed the advanced guard of the Prussians,and driven them again into the woods. Withoutweakening his first line, or disabling himself} fromcontinuing his murderous charges against tiie cen-i Ire of the British, he had dispatched nearly one|il bundled pieces of cannon, and the whole of theii reserve of his right wing against the Prussians., Animated by this success, and at the same timef) sensible how necessary it was for him to avail hitn-i| self of it, Napoleon caused it to be anonunced tof] his troops that General Grouchy approached, andif would cut to pieces the few Prussians who werefhovering on his right; then putting himself at the(head of his guard, consisting of fifteen hundrediiinen, he made one last desperate effort on the cen¬tre of the British. He led them on till he came3|to a hollow part of the road, where he stopped(under a ravine, protected from the fire of thet’2British artUtery. Here he liarangued his froop<?He reuiiii(]ed them how often he had relied mtheir valour in eases of emergency, ami that inhad never yet appealed to them" in vain. He tollthem that the enemy, diminished in numbers armalmost annhilated, could offer no effectual resistmice that they had nothing to encounter but aiartillery, which was indeed numerous and formid |eble, but which they would easily carry with tin?bayonet. They answered with a shout of euthusiasm, and the cry of “ The Emperor for ever !’was distinctly heard as far as the British lines.The Allies imagined that Napoleon was abomto attack them in person, and far from being inti¬midated, rejoiced that they would have an oppor¬tunity of shewing him of what the soldiers of Wel¬lington were capable. The Emperor, however,remained secure under the rising bank, and bisbrave and devoted troops defiled before him underthe command of Ney, and ascended the eminence.They marched on with a firm and steady stepjand in dead silence. The fate of the battle; thejifate of Europe depended upon them. The fire otithe Allies abated ; and with indescribable feelingsof anxiety, awe, and admiration, they contemplated!the approach of the chosen troops of France, thebattalioi s who were the terror of Europe, and whohad never yet been vanquished. But the pausewas only momentary. Every cannon seemed toi1open at once On the foe, and swept whole ranks,away. As the front ranks fell, others in an instant:rushed forward to fill up the chasms, and with:stern and unbroken front, the imperial guard con-blined to advance.In a hollow of the ground, immediately in frontof the Frondi, and pi’oteeted-from the lire of theirHe hilii glared himself oh a ikige, and doeldrodthat he- would not move from it. This was an Hi ■eient to render his troops invineible. They wouldnow, as Soult had justly declared, rather have suf¬fered themselves to be cut to pieces, than exposetheir beloved commander to peril.The redoubted imperial guard still advanced.They approached within a hundred yards, whenthe Duke suddenly exclaimed, “ Up guards, andat them." The unexpected apparition of this fineilxxly of men startled the French battalions, andthey suddenly paused; but immediately recoveringah</mselves, they advanced more rapidly. At aijgiven signal, their artillery filed off to the right andthe left. They approached within twenty yards of'.their opponents, and were in the act of dashingIfupon them with the bayonet; when a volley wasri ooured upon them by the British which staggeredi .hem, and literally knocked them back with itsi >hock. A second volley threw them into greateri confusion, and ere they had time to deploy or tomanoeuvre, the British cheered and rushed furi-itDusly upon them They waited not to receive thea ttack, but suddenly turning fled in disorder.| The British were eagerly pursuing, when a regT|l nent of sharp-shooters, which had accompaniedit nd protected the advancing column, attackedii hem, and did considerable execution; but theritish immediately rallied, and again cheering asfore, charged on their new antagonists. Theyewise refused to receive the shock, and followede route of their companions. Again the Frenchlived, and opened a galling and destructive firei their pursuers, but as soon as they were within ,,purging distance uniformly gave way.The main body of the Prussian's bad now at -red, though they were bravely* opposed by'theP4tro^jvi of General Lohatf, The eoimtenance otWellington brightened into a smile. “Theregoesokl lilncher at lost,” he exclaimed. “ We shallbeat them yet." The decisive moment had ar¬rived, and the Duke promptly availed himself ofjt. He ordered the whole line supported by theartillery and cavalry to charge. His troops repliedwith one universal shout and hastened to the at¬tack. Nothing could resist their impetuosity.The French fought with bravery and desperation ;but their first line was speedily broken through ;the second afforded little more resistance, and com¬plete confusion and route ensued.Four squares of the old imperial gjtiard yet re-mained. With these Napoleon endeavoured tocover his retreat, which was now inevitable ; butthey were embarrassed and borne away by thecrowd of fugitives, and unable to resist the over-whelming force of the English and PmsMans \rliicl>now pressed upon them. They defended them¬selves with a gallantry w hich excited the admira¬tion of their fix's. The Duke of Wellington wouldhave prevented the useless sacrifice of their lives,and .summoned them to a surrender. But, witha high sense of military honour, which we are com-{jelled to regard with respect and veneration,though we think that it was here erroneous andoverstrained, they refused to yield, and slowlyretreating inch by inch, were almost entirely an¬nihilated.With their destruction the contest ended. Nofurther resistance was opposed ; and the con¬querors had little more to do, than to pursue thefugitives. The loss of the British was from 15 u>20,000 men; the Prussian 5 j^r 6000. The loss,of the French in the short campaign was at least60 or Go 000 killed, w ounded, or prisoners. Morethan 300 pieces of artillery were taken.