T HEl Scots Piper's Queries:O R,j John Falkirk’s Cariches.- TO WHICH ARE ADDED,IiKhp' ! * t(His Coraical and Witty Jokes,! When in Courtfliip with an old Fidler’s Wi-j ~ dow, who wanted all the Teeth. Withtethe Copy of the^Love-letter he fent untoher who is commonly, called F—ting Betty.Old John Piper if you defireTo read at leifure by the fire :’Twillpleafe the bairns and keep them laughing,And mind the Auld Good wife o'er daffing.■ m.CONCLUDING WITH «I The QUAKER and CLOWN, a Won¬derful Tale.GLASGOW;'PRINTED BY J. & M‘. ROBERTSON,SALTMARKET, 1804.■ L .( 2 ).This Catechifm deferves no Creed,It’s only for Boys, who will not readOn wifer books, them to inftruft:Let droll John their fancy cook.The Scots Pipers Queries, &c.o:WHAT is the wifeft behaviourignorant perfons ?A. To fpeak of n®thing but what theyj:know, and to give their opinion of nothingbut what they underhand.Q. What time is a fcolding wife at thtbelt ?A. When fhe is fail afleep.Q. W'hat time is a fcolding wife at th«wo til ?A. When die is that wicked as to tear th*hair out of her own head, when fhe can’get at her neighbours, and through perfeffpite bites her own tongue with her owiteeth; my hearty wifh is, that all i'uch wicked vipers may ever do fo.Cb What is the effectual cure and infallible remedy for a fcolding wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of the hearing of her, but the infallible remedy is tnail her tongue to a growing tree, in the beginning of a cold winter night, and fo let i,The Scots Piper'’s Queries. 3|(land till fun-rifing next morning, fne’Il be¬come one of the peaceabieft women thatitver lay by a man’s fide.What time of the year is it that thereare moll holes open ?j A. In harrelt when there are Hubbles,i: Ch At what time is the cow hcavtell ?' b. "When the bull is on her back.! Cb Who was the goodman’s muckle cow’scalf’s mother ?1. A. None but the muckle cow herfelf.Ck What is the liked thifig to a man andj: i horfe ?A. A taylor and a mare.What is the hardeft dinner that ever aijaylor laid his teeth to ?f A. His own goofe, though ever fo well1 boil’d or roafted.P Ck How many tods tails will it tak toeach up to the moon ?|i A. One if it be long enough.,1 Ck How many Hicks gangs to the biggingI f a ,craw’s neH ?I1! A, None, for they are all carried.C Ck How many whites will a well madedudding prick need ?I] A. If it be well made it needs no more,f. Ck Who was the father of Zebedee’s chil-tren?A. Who but himfelf.Where did Mofes go when he was full1 teen years old ?i 1 A. Into his fixteenth.4 n vr ^ ScoU'PiPer’s Queries.broker 0tryour?related ^ y°WrA. No nearer than my own father. *AT Two many h°IeS ate in a hen,s douPQl How prove you that ?th^h?4rfor the dung’and ^a Who is the beft for catching of roguesA. None fo fit as a rogue hirnfeif.tod-Crwas ,he ufefu,di fair«s“cA^ At Millguy.*h^?^Vhat f°rt °f Commo';iit5es were foLA.' Nothing but a!e ill wicked wiveXL lioW wa.' it aboli/hed ? .f'y Because thoft who went to it onewould go to it no more.Ql For what reafon ?A. Becaufe there was no money to be ecfor them, but fair barter, wife for .wife, anihe who put away a wife for one fault, gotwife with two as bad.CF What was the reafon that in thofe daya man could put away his wife for pifiing tlteu, and ngt for fh git? 1A. Becaufe he could fhute it away wi,his foot and ly down.(F What is the reafon now a'-days tb;men court, caft, marry, and re-marrymany wives, and keep only but one in puhe at laft ? rThe Scots Fiber's Queries. 5A, Becaufe private marriage is become asjcommon as-fmuggling, and cuckolding the!kirk no more thought of, than a man to ridea mile or tvcp upon his neighbour’s mare!' men get will and wale of wives, the beft por¬tion, and propereh perfon is preferred, rheifitfl left, the weak to the work, and" fhewhom he does not love, he fhutes away withhis foot and lies down with whom he pieafes.How will ye know the harms of durtown, by all others in the kingdom ?A. By their ill-breeding, and bad man-; ners,i Qk What is their behaviour ?A, If you alk them a queftion in civility,if it were but the .road to the next tovm,(they'll tell vou to follow your nofe, and ifye go wrong curfe the guide.Are young and old of them no better?A. All the odds lies in the difference, iorif you alk a child to whom he belongs, oriwho is his father, he’ll tell you to kifs his1father’s a .' Ch What fort of creatures, is kindiiefi:pwheu they meet ?A. None can exceed the kindnefs of dogsdwhen they meet in a market.Q. And what is Collie's condmff there?1 A- Firlt they kifs other’s mouths and ndf-ip, fmell ail about, and lafl of all they arefo kind as to kifs other below-the tail.11' ^ What is the coldeft par: of a ring ?■ 1 A. His nofe.6 The Seels Piper's Queries.PS, What is the coldeit part of a man?A. His knees.J?. W^at is the coldeft part of a woman?A. The back part of her body.^ What is the reafen, that thefe threparts of men, women, and dogs are col deft ?iA. Fabulous hiftorians fay, that there wathree little holes broke in Noah’s ark, anthat the dog put his nofe in one, and another the man put his knee in it, a third andbiggeft hole broke, and the woman bang’dlher backfide into it j and thefe parts beingexpofed to the cold blaft, make them alwayscold ever fince.^ And what remedy does the man takfor the warming of his cold knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire, andwhen in bed draws his fhirt down over them.^ And what does the women do to warmtheir cold parts ?A. The married women turn their back-fide about to the gcod-rnan’s belly : virgins,and thofe going mad for marriage, the heatof their maidenhead keeps them warm, oldimatrons, whirl’d o’er maidens, widows,and widows bewitch’d, hold up their celdeft:parts to the fire.^ And what remedy does the poor dog;take for his cold nofe ?A. Stops it below his tail, the hetteft bitin his body.What is the reafon the dogs are worfeon chapmen, than on other Grange people?The Scots Piper's Queries. 7A. It is laid the dogs have three accufa-tions againit the' chapmen ; handed downfrom father to fon, or from one generationof dogs to another: The firft is as old asH iEfop the great wit of Babylon, the dog1 having a law-fa it againft the cat, gained theiiptea, and coming trudging home with the1 decreet below his tail, a wicked chapmanj throwing his elwan at him, he iote it ia%‘ and fo loft his great privileges thereby.I The fecond is, becaufe in old times the chap*I men ufed to buy dogs and kill them for theirfkins. The third, when a chapman was| quartered in a farmer’s houfe, that night theI dog loft his property the licking of the pot.ijb What creature refembles moft a drunk-I en piper' ?A. A cat when fne ftps milk; {he alwaysI fmgs, and fo does a piper when he drinksII good ale.What is the reafon a dog runs twicefl round about before he ly down ?A. Becaufe he does not know the head cf11 his bed from the foot of it.Si?. What creature refembles moft a long,lean, ill-looking, greafy-fac’d lady, for pride?A*I None fo much as the cat, who is con-I! tir.ually fpitting in her lufe and rubbing heril face, as many cf fuch ladies do the brownll leather of their .wrinkled chafts.4b' Amongft what fort of creatures will|J you obferve moft of a natural iaw ?p A. The hart and the bind meet at one] f8 The Scots Piper*s Queries'.certain day in the year; the broad geofelays her firft eg" on Fafterhs liven, oldftile;the crows begin to build their ntxl the firitof March, old ftiie ; the fwans obferve ma¬trimony, and if the female die, the maledares not take up with another, cr tire reftwill pat him to death; all the birds in gen¬eral join in pairs, and keep fo ;< but thedove refembies the adulterer, when the Ihe-one turns old, he pays her away, and takesanother; the locufts obferve military order,and march in bands; the frogs referablepipers and preachers, for the young ride theold to death.Qj Who are the merrieft and heartieftpeople in the world ?A. The faiiors, for they’ll be Tinging andcurling one another, u hen the waves theirgraves, are going over their heads.PQ Which are the diforderlieft creaturesin battle ?A. Cows and dogs, for they ail fall uponthem that are neathmoft.pQ Who are the vaineft fort of people inthe world ?A. A barber, a taylor, a young foldier,and a poor dominie.SQ What is the great caufe of the barber'svanity ?A. His being admitted to trim noblemen’schafts, thyke their feuils, tak kings by thenpfe, and hold a razor to his very throat,which no fubject elfe dare do.The Scots Piper's Queries. %What is the great caufe of the taylor'spride ?A. His making of peopie’s new clothes,of which every perfon young and old isu proud of, then who can walk in a vainer1 fliew than a tavior carrying home a\gentle>'! man’s clothes.Q. What is "the caufe of a young foldier’spride rA. When he lifts,, he thinks he is free of| his mother’s correction, the hard ufige cf a| bad tnafter, has a liberty to curfe, fwear,whore, and do every things until he be con-i vineed by four halberts and the drummer’swhip, that he has now got both a militaryand civil law above his head, and perhapsworfe matters than ever.What is the caufe bf the poor domi¬nie’s pride ?A. As he is the teacher of the young andignorant, he fuppofes no man knows whathe knows; the boys call him mailer, there¬fore he thinksfhimfelf a great man.Qi What fort of a fong is it, that is fungwithout a tongue," and its notes are under-ftood by people of all nations ?A. It is a tart, which every perfon knowsto be but wind.What is the reafon that young peopleare vain, giddy-headed and airy, and not fohumble as the children of former years?A. Becaule they are brought up and edu¬cate after a more haughty ftrain, by readingio The Scots Piper’s Queries'*fables, plays, novels and romances; gofpel*.books, Inch as rhe pfalm-book, proverbs*and catechifms, are like old almanacks; no¬thing in vogue, but fiddle, flute, troy, andBabylonilh tunes; our plain Englifti fpeechcorrupted with beauilh cants, don’t, won’t,nen, and ken, a jargon worfe than theYorklhire dialed.Why is fwearing become fo commonamongit the Scots people ?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teachers costiefrom the 1'outh amongft us, where fwearingis pra&ifed in its true grammatical perfec¬tion, hot oaths new (truck with as bright aiu ft re as a new quarter guinea.How will you know the bones of amafon’s mare at the back of a dyke, amongftthe bones of a hundred dead horfes ?A. Becaufe it is made of wood.Which are the two things not to befpared, and not to be abufed rA. A foldier’s coat, and a hired horfe.THE END OF JOHN FALKIRK’S C ARICHES.The Comical and Witty Jokes of JOHN FAL¬KIRK the MERRY PIPER.AN old gentleman and his two Tons, be¬ing in a company, his eldeft Ion fii>, ting next to him, fpoke a word which high¬ly difpleafed his father: for-which his fathergave him a hearty blow on the fide of thehead; a well, laid he, 1 will not lift myIT*jolm 'Falkirk's Witty yokes,hand to {trike my parents, but he gives hisother brother that fat by him, a blow on theear, faying, give that about by the way of-I a drink, tiil it comes to my father again.A failor being travelling between Edin*I burgh and Linlithgow, which is twelve longi computed miles; and as he was letting out| in the morning about eight ‘o’clock, he fawa vain-like young (park go running pail him,which he never minded, but kept joggingon at his own Jeifure: and as he was goinginto Linlithgow, abcujt twelve o’clock, upcomes the young fptirk, and alked the failorwhat o’clock it was, why fays the failor, Ifee you have a watch and 1 have none, whatis'it? out he pulls his watch, ho! faid he,it’s direftly twelve, and what do you think,it was half an hour after ten or I came outof Edinburgh, I have walked it in an hourand an half; it is pretty well tript, fays thefailor, but pray fir, what man of bufinefsare you ? O! faid he, I am a watch-maker,l was thinking fo faid the failor, for youhave made your watch to anfwer your feet,for thefe feet cannot anfwer a right watch,and l fuppofe your tongue can’t keep timewith either of them, do you remember whereyou went pad me this morning about eighto’clock ? O yes, faid he, and off he went.A certain old reverend pried, being.onenight at fupper in a gentleman’s houfeand[ dor one article having eggs, the ferver of thetable, as ufuat hid a cloth on every one’s12 'John Falkirk’s Witty Jukes.knee, wherewith to hold their egg in wherhot; when flipper was over, the prieft looked down between his legs, and feeing thewhite cloth, thought 'it was his own fhirttail; and very flyly flaps it into his breech¬es, bit and bit, which the lady and her maidobferved, but was aihamed to challenge him,fo home he went with the fervet in his breech¬es, and knew nothing of it till going to bed,when it fell from hrnr: his wife enquiredhow he came by it, he could not tell, butwas furprifjed how he came to have morebulk in his breeches than formerly, but per¬ceiving the name they lent it back again, theprieft pleaded to be excufed, owned himfelfonly a thief through ignorance.As two maids were coming from the milk¬ing of their cows, one of them ftepping o-ver a ftile, fell and fpilled the whole paii-fullof milk from her head. O f^id {he, whatwill 1 do, what will I do, O faid the othermaid, let it go, who can help it now, youean’t make it up again, it is not your maid¬en-head : my maiden-head, faid Ihe, if itwere iny maiden-head, I would think no¬thing of it, many many a time, I have loftmy maiden-head with great pleafure and Igot it ay again, it came back ay to its ajnplace again, but I’ll never gather up my milk--again.A great drover who frequented a publicinn in the north of England as he palled amirepaflld, -agreed with the fervant maid ofJohn Falkirk's Wiliy jokes. 13the houfe, for a touch of love; for which hegave her a fix and thirty-ftiilling piece : On.the next morning he mounted his horfe,without afking a bill, or what was to pay;hut fir, find the landlord, you forgot to payyour reckoning': well minded, fir, fiid he,l want my dv«ige, I gave your maid a fixand thirty to change, the poor maid- is cal-• led on in all hade, yes faid fhe I get it, butit was not'for that, throws it down and off. fhe goes; her midrefs underdood, and gave1 her the challenge, fne told her it was fo. butfhe fhould.be up with him; fo in twelvemonths thereafter, he came pad with hisdrove, puts up at the Tame inn as formerly;then the girl goes to a neighbour woman.f who had a young child about three monthsa ov old, comes into the company where he was,lays it down on the table, faying, fir, there’si the change of your fix and thirty; and a-i11 way fhe comes, the child cries, and the hell’s1 rung, the landlord was ready enough to an-I fwer.. O fir. faid he, call her back, for thisII will ruin my family, and crack my credit;fc but fir, faid the girl, you thought nothing to1 ruin my character, and crack my maiden-t head; peace, peace, faid he, my dear; here’s!. one hundred, and fifty pound, and take a-< way the child and trouble me no more; well;faid fhe I’ll take it, and you will make morsiof buying cows than maiden-heads; fo awayifhe came with the money," and returned theborrowed child to its own mother.I14 yohn Fa&irPs Witty yokes".Three merry companions having met ona Saturday night at an ale-houfe, (a hattera {hoe-maker, and a taylor,) v.here theydrank heartily ail that night, and' to-mor¬row until mid-day: and their bets were,who had the lovingeft- wife: So they agreedfor a trial of their good-narare, that everyman fhould do whatever his wife bade himdo, as foon as ever he went home: or whodid not as fhe ordered him, was to pay allthe reckoning, which was feven and fix-pente; or if a!i of them did as their wivesbade them, then they were to pay all alike:So on this agreement they all came aw^y,firft to the hatter’s houfe, and in he goeslike a madman, dancing and jumping roundthe floor, his wife at the very time was tak¬ing off the pot and fetting it on the floor,he ftill dancing about, now fays the wifeding over the pot with thy madnefs, lb hegives it a kick and over it went, and thatfaved him, as he had done what his wife badehim do. Then away they go to the taylor’s.houfe, and he goes dancing likewife, buthis wife fell a fcolding him : O fays he, my]dear give me a kifs? kifs my arfe, you drunk-jen rogue, faid {he; then to her he flies ani"whips her over to the bed, up with her pet-!ticoats and kifles her arfe before them ailj.iTand that faved him; then away they wentijto the ihoemaker’s, and in he goes very merry, and dancing about as he law the other]two do; faying, come my dear heart and]■e — at-John Falkirk’s Witty Jokes. 15give me a kifs? go hangyourfelf you drunk¬en dog faid {he; fo he muft either go andhang himfelf dire&ly, or pay all the reck¬oning.An honed Highlandman not long fince,not much acquainted with the law, fell outwith one of his neighbours, and to the lawj they went: he employed one advocate, andhis oppofite another, and as they were de-| bating it in court before the judges, thehighlandman being there prefent, a friend1 on his fide, afked. him how he thought itwould go, or who would gain the day; in-1 deed fays the highlandman, his law-matijfpeaks well, and my law-man fpeaks well,1 think we'll both win, and the judges will1 lofe, for they fpeak but a word now andI then. •A young woman by the old accident hav¬ing got herfelf with child, was called to theifeffion for fo doing, and after one elder an¬other, examining her how Ihe got it, andiwhere (he got it, and what tempted her toiiget it; and no doubt the deel wad get herilfor the getting it; laft of all the minifter heIf ell a enquiring how {he got it, which runHthe poor lafs out of all patience about theigetting of it, fays the pried, tell me plain¬ly where it was gotten ? I tell yon, faid {he,;that it was gotten in the byre, at a cow’siflake, and what other place do you want toi:ten about ? but faid he, he did not tie youo the cow’s Hake: no, faid {he, I did noti6 John. Falkirk's Witty Joxes.need any tying, and how far was betweenthe byre and the houfe ? juft butt and ben,up and down two (taps of a ftane ftair, thenfays the prisfl, whv did you not cry to thefolks in the houfe ? Indeed fir, faid fhe. Icould not get crying for laughing at it.An old foldier being on a furlough fromthe north of Scotland, having got no break-fall, fell very hungry by the wav, and noalehoufe being near, came into a farmer’shoufr, and defired they would fell him fome jbread, or any Jkind of victuals; to which |the furly' good wife reply’d, the never .fold£ny bread, and fhe was not going to beginwith him, he had but three miles and a bit-tock to an ale-houfe, and he might marchon, and flie did fair enough when Ihe gied jbits of bread for naething to beggars, tho*Ihe gied nane to idle fodgei s. he had naething |to do there awa’ * Hout faid the goodman,gie him a ladle fu’ o’ our kail; he’s been ay !fomebody’s bairn before he was a fodger:What! faid Ihe, there’s not a drop in thepot, they’re a’ in the plate bifore you : then 'gie him a fpoon and let him fup wi’ ps: the Ifoldier gets a fpoon, and thinking he could Ifup all he faw himfelf. the ftrfl foup he putin his mouth fpouted it back again in theplate, and cries out, O my fore mouth, fhehide’s all of it yet fince I had the clap: thenevery one threw down his fpoon the foldier igot all to fup himfelf; the wife Hood curf-ing and fcolding all the while, and when he I'John Falkirk's Witty Jokes. 17I was done, burnt both plate ahd fpoon in thefire, to prevent the clap. 80 the foldierI came 'off with a foil belly, leaving the -wife: dreffing the gocdman’s rigging with a four1 footed ftool, for bidding him fup.A churlifli hufbancl and a virtuous wifejt one time fell iadly out, becaufe the wife hadgiven fomething to the poor; what faid he,miftrefs I’ii let you know there is nothing a-: bout this houfe but wrhat is mine, and you’remine, and you’re very arfe is mine: a well,f well, goodman, then you’ll let me have no-thing, take it all and give me peace: So a->Cy they went to bed, the goodwife turned,her back fids towards the goodman; and ashe wras falling afleep, fhe draws up her fmockand let’s fly in the goodnian’s fliirt*tail, whichawakened him in a great fright, as he hadI been ihet; ay, ay, woman, what are ye a-bout ? what am 1 about faid foe; dear wo¬man you’re filing the bed : not I goodman,for when my arfe was my own 1 took care ofit, and take care 01 ’it now, it’s your’s. O.rife woman and clean the bed, and keepyour arfe, and a’ the liberty ye had before,and more if ye want it, feigh, feigh, what’sthis ? I’m a’ dirt.A foip’s ctew being one time in great dif-trefs at fea, by reafon of a violent (form,and being ail fallen down to prayer, expect¬ing every moment to go to the bottom; therehappened to be an old gentleman a paffen-ger on board with them, who had a great18 ‘John Falkirk's Witty Jokes.big red nofe with drinking ale and whilky:and being all at their lalt prayers as theythought: a little boy burft out into loudlaugnter: O thou thcughtlefs rogue, laid thecaptain, what makes thee to laugh, in feeingns all on the point of petilhing ? why laidthe boy, I cannot but laugh for to thinkwhat a fine fport it will be, when we are alldrowning, to fee how that man's red nofewill make the w'ater biz, when he comes a-bout it, at which words they ail fell a laugh¬ing and cherilhed the crew, fo that they madeanother attempt to weather it out, and gotall fate afiiore at laft.My lovely Bet,The beauty of old age, thy hoary head,and louching fhoulders incline to mortality:yet I’ll compare thee to the Eagle that hasrenewed her youth, or a leek with a whitehead and a green tail, this comes to theewith my kind compliments, for the kifles ofthy lips, and the kindnefs 1 had to thy latebed-fellow fuller Pate my brother penchion-er, ah 1 how we drank other’s health, withthe broe of the brucket ews, we broughtfrom bcugbrs of the German Boors; butit’s nonfenfe to blow the dead when in theduff, yet a better Vialer never fcreeded on afilken cord, or kittl’d cat’s trypes wi’ hisfinger ends; Ids elbows were fupple as aneel, and his fingtrs dabbed at the jiggingend like a hungry hen picking barley : 1 fel-dom or ever law him drunk, if keep himThe Shaker and Clown. 19fIi1*,ff m whiilvy, and whilkv from him ; exceptthat night he tryftet the pair of free ftonebreeches from Jofeph the mafon; and nowmy dear Bt fly he’s got them, he’s got them,for a free ftonc covers his body, holds himdown, and will do; and now, now, mydainty thing, my bonny thing, my beftmatch for matrimony, come take me now,or tell me now, I’m an an anger, I’ll Waitnae langer, I fay be clever, either now ornever, it’s a rapture of love which does memove, I’ll have a wife, or by my life, if fhefhould be blind and cripple, I’ll fell my win*,for her meat and fun, the like ne’er gadedown her thrapple; fo now Beffy Move you,and my love lies upon you, and if you lovenot me again, fome ill chance come uponyou, as I’m flyting free. I’m both in loveand banter, or may your rumple ruft forme, I’ve fworn it by my chanter.THE END OF JOHN FALKIRK’S JOKES.The QUAKER and CLOWN, a WonderfulTale.A Certain clown, named Roger, lovedthe chimney-corner fo much betterthan a church-pew, that he conftuntly pafledhis Sundays in it. It was lb long fince hehad attended divine fervice, that he fcarceremembered the colour of the parfon’s caf-fock. His wife, who heartily wifhed his ab-fence was more frequent, took occanon one20 The Quaker and Clown. Iday to repreient to him, in the molt empir¬ical manner, what an heinoes crime it wasto negleft divine fervice. She held forth folong, and fo loud on this head, that he, tir¬ed by her vociferous eloquence, rather thaniconvinced by her arguments, determined toleave his beloved feat, with an intention togo to church. He went accordingly fromhome; but happening in his way to thechurch, to fee the door of the quaker’s meet¬ing open, he went in, fat down on a form,and fell fall afleep-Aminadab Holdforth, having fuftained |fome Ioffes,- was telling his auditors, thatwhatever they gave to him, fhould be return- 1frd twofold. Roger waked, juft as he madethis dec laration, and from the meeting to his .1cottage revolved thefe words in his mirtd.When he got home, he repeated them tohis wife; telling her at the fame time, thatas he thought it improbable his friend Ami- ||nadab fhould lie, he wras determined to makehim a prefent of their cow Cherry j as itwould, according to his promife in the meet¬ing, be returned two-fold.On this extraordinary information the poorwoman fet up a molt dlfmal outcry: urging,in the ftrong^ft terms, that her dear Cherry’smilk was the chief of their fupporc: but allto no pufpofe, Roger was abfoluteiy bent onhis defigri, and drove away immediately toAminadab’s, regardtefs of her lamentation'sand piteous moans.The .Quaker and Clown. 21When he arrived at his houfe, Friend A-rninadab happened to be at the door. Ro¬ger direSiy dofPd his hat; and gnawing itscorner, addrefled him in the following man¬ner : “ Friend Aminadab, Ize brought youhere our cow Cherry, an you pleafes to ac¬cept an her.”—“ Thou art a good fellow,’*replies Aminadab: “ Here, Sarah, take ourhoneft neighbour into the kitchen, and lethim eat heartily ; afid, hark ye, make himdrink fome of our bell ale.” At thefe wel¬come founc> Roger’s heart, leapt with joy.He was conduced to the kitchen, where heacted his part molt manfully: and, in a cou¬ple of hours, was fent home as happy as aprince.When he came home, he hoafted to hiswife that he had already received fomethingin part of his gift; that all would be return¬ed in rime^ and that he was certain his friendAminadab had fpoken truth; but his wifeinterrupting him in the harangue, with anaccufation of ftupidity, and having foolilhlyruined himfelf and her, Roger to avoid fur¬ther altercation, retired to bed, and fleptfoundly till morning.As foon as Roger waked, his etrs wereattracted by the founds of moo—moo—moounder his window. He got up; and look¬ing out, perceived his own cow Cherry, andAminadab’s bull, whom (he had decoyed. home with her. Overjoyed at the %ht, hewaked his wife, and informed her of their22 The Quaker and Cloicn.good fortune; and af the fame time upbraid¬ing her for her unbelief of words uttered atthe meeting; and remarked, that his friendAminadab had been better than his word,'for he had not only returned his gift two¬fold, but had likewife given him the beddinner he had ever tailed in his life.It was then determined to fell the bull,and keep the cow. No fooner refolved onthan put in execution; the bull was fold,and the cow referved for her former ufe.Roger, having fuch fuccefs by going tomeeting, determined to go there again. Thenext Sunday, being feated as before, he wasvery attentive to Aminadab’s difeourfe; andtowards the conclufion, he was greatly a-ftonilhed to hear him pronounce the follow¬ing words: “ That whereas on Monday laftI have lod my bull, together with a cow late¬ly made me a prefent of; whoever can giveinformation of the faid cow and bull, fo asthey may be recovered, Ihall receive a crownreward.”This appearing fomewhat myfteriaus toRoger, he refolved to intimate his fuxprizeto Aminadab; whom he addrefled accord¬ingly, as he was coming out.of the meet¬ing. The Quaker, finding by his difeourfethat he was the perfon who had got both cowand bull, told him, in a great pallion, thathe would the next morning take a ride toMr. Clearcaufe (a juftice of the peace, wholived at about three miles diftanct^ and in-The Quaker and Clown. 23; form him of the affair. Roger determined to beat the juftices as foon as the Quaker, and let outaccordingly the next morning early.On the road, Roger efpied the (Quaker’s horfef tied to the door of a fmall hedge ale-houfe, towhich he immediately went; and, peeping <?iro’; a window, perceived Aminadab and the landlord’swife, tranfadting fome affairs which could not betermed absolutely decent. At this unexpectedfight Roger was greatly overjoyed, knowing hecould intimidate the Quaker at any time, by let¬ting him-underftand what he was privy to, whichwouldexcite the rage of his own conjugal termagant.Roger entering the houfe, drank a pint of alewith all poffible fpeed; and then informed the Ser¬vant that Mr. Holdforth and he had agreed to ridefpell and fpell, or what is otherwife called ride and1 tye: a method practifed in the country when twogo a journey together, and have but one horfe be-| tween them -, one riding firft and leaving the horfeif at a place appointed; or if neither of them know| the way, tying him to the door of fome publicri houfe, in fuch a manner as the other muff abfo-I; lutely fee it; and, defcribing to the people of theI houfe the perfon they are to deliver the horfe to-, in: I this manner they proceed during the whole journey.Roger having got pofieffion of Aminadab’s horfe,I rode it to the town where the juftice of the peaceIII lived, and there ftruck up a bargain with a great| deal of expedition, and fold it; then waited at the[ juftice’s door for the Quaker.Poor Aminadab, whole corpulency was no greatfriend to his walking, in a fliort time after camepuffing and blowing towards the juftice’s. Rogerimmediately informed him, that being very muchtired by his journey, and feeing his horfe ftancli idle at a door, he had made bold to ufe him : and,! finding a chap who was willing to give a good24 The Shaker and Clown.price for him, ,he readily fold him, thinking it afin to refufe a good offer; and therefore hoped hewould not take it ill what he had done.Upon hearing this, the Quaker was in-a greatpaffion; and faid, “ Thou viflain! what, afterhaving robbed me of my bull and cow, to ftealmy horfe !—why—why fellow, don’t you think tobe hang’d ?”—“ I hope not,!’ replies Roger; “ buthowever that may be, pray friend, let me alk theeone queftion. What might you be doing when Itook the horfe ?”—“ Hufh ! Hufii!’' cries theQuaker, in a terrible fright—“ Never mentionwhat thou halt feen, and I’ll forgive thee all. Go■thy ways ; and hark thee, take grace with thee.”Roger bowed, and proceeded homewards; but, jas the Qnaker moved ilowly, determined to call athis houfe. When he arrived there, the maid ac-cofted him with, “ Well, Roger, how halt thouand my malter made it out?”—“ Oh! very well,”replies Roger, “ we’re as good friends as ever.’iHe bid me go, and take grace with me.”—“ Grace!”cries the maid; “ what, and all her pigs !uNow, reader; you mult know, grace was a fa-vourate fow of the Quaker’s, who had lately lit¬tered a 'fine parcel of pigs. The maid thinking it,iter mailer’s intention, turned the fow and her lit¬ter out of the fly, and Roger drove them homebefore hiip.The Quaker’s wife was foon made acquainted,with the affair; and the reception Aminadab met jwith from her, when die faw him come homewithout his horfe, is better imagined than expref-fed—But I am credibly informed, that his ha¬rangues in the meeting were for feme time aftervery much larded with invectives againlt rage—-hard words—and an immoderate indulgence ofthe paffioiis. JGlafgov, Printed by J. & M. Rdbcrtiori* j S04.