LIFE ANDADVENTURES0 FSir William WallacGENERAL and GOVERNOR of SCOTLAND.CONTAINING,A particular Account of his moft remarkableBattles with King Edward (Longfhanks) ;And of his mournful Fate at,London, afterhe was betrayed into the Hands of theEnglilh: Where he was put to Death, andhis Body quartered and fent to differentTowns in Scotland.WITHAn Account of the Battle of Bannockburn,which was fought, June 24th, 1314.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON, [No. 20JSalt market, iScd).THEHISTORY OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE..LIE hiftocy of Sir Wi r liam Wallacj, withother of the valiant Kif.g Robert Brcce, whicfolloweth upon the end of it, and of which this is anbridgement,wa8vvritteninLatinbyMr. John Blair, chn]Iain to Wallace, rnd turned into Scots metre by one calcd Blind Harry, in the days of King James IV. andtlhiftory of Bruce was written by Mr. John Barbour, areldean of Aberdeen, a learned man, in the days of K, D1vid Bruce and Robert Stewart, and both together conta.a relation of the mod famous war that ever fell out in tlifle of Britain, fought moll valiantly for the fpace of ayears, between the two realms of Scotland and Englamthe one unjuftly purfuing, the other conllantly defendinthe liberties of their country. During which broils, the:happened great alterations, both in the general Hatethis kingdom, and in the overthrow and advancementparticular families, the one for betraying, the other flmaintaining their country’s freedom and welfare.That the whole hillory may be more clear, we haithought good, inafliortintrodu&ion, to fet down the can.es, occal;oiis,and themcll memorable paffagesof this wijIn the year 1285, Alexander the II Id. King of ;-ccland, being fuddenly taken away by a fall from his hor.|at Kinghorn, without any iffue of his body, and in hi1the whole pofterity of his father Alexander the lid. agrandfather William the Lyon, being extindl, the rig|of the crown fell to the heirs of .David ear! of Huntingtand Gariceh, youngeft brother to William the Lyon,had left three daughters, the eldeft Margaret, marriedAllan Lord of Galloway; the fecond, Ifabel, to RobiBruce, (firnamed the iS'oble,) Lord of Annandale a.Cleveland the youngeft. Ada, married Henry Hailian Engliftiman; who having 11c juft title to the ciowthe contention refted betwixt the pofterity of the two *der daughters; for Adlan, Lord of Galloway, leavingions by his wife Margaret ; his eldeft daughter Dor:gitln of Galloway, married John Baliol, a man of grpowtr and lards both in Scotland, England, and Franiand bare to him John.EaJiol afterwards King. RobBruce, by his wife Ifabtl of Huntington, had RotBruce, who came to be ear! of Garrick, by marrying MTHE HISTORY OF, &c. 3tlia, heatrlx thereof, and who contended with John Ba-liol, and died in the time of Wallace’s wars. His el-ddt fon, Robert Bruce, fucceeded King of Scotland.Dornagilla of Galloway claimed the crown, as heirto Margaret, elded daughter to prince David. RobertBruce, earl of Garrick, albiet fon to Ifabel tire feconddaughter, yet, contended that, in feudal fuccefiion, theincefiion, altho’ die be elder: and therefore he and Dor¬nagilla of Galloway, danding in the fecond degree fromprince David, he ought to be prefered to her: as forher fon, John Baliol, he could claim no right but byher, and likewife was a degree further off from princeDavid. The like practice had fallen out fome to yearsbefore, in Hugh the IV. duke of Burgundy, whole el¬ded fon Hugh, (dying before his father) left a daugh¬ter, Jola, countefs of Nevers, who claimed to fucceedher grandfather Hugh IV. Notwithdanding Robert,fecond fon to the fame Hugh IV. was preferred to her,and fueceeded the duke of Burgundy: if then the fe-1 cond fon, in feudal inheritance, fucceed before the el-1 ded fon’s daughter, far more ought the nephew to fuc¬ceed before the niece. The right of fuccefuon being,thus made doubtful, the competitors were fo powerful,that they drew the greatcd part of the kingdom intotwo equal factions; fo that it feemed impoffible to fet¬tle the controverfy at home, without running intp a! pernicious civil war.The dates of Scotland, to prevent this mrfchief,thought it fitted to fubmit the arbitrament of the pleato Edward I. firnamed Longfhanks, king of England,and that upon divers weighty reafons; for he and his fa-! ther K. Henry III. being joined by many alliances, ofbands and friendlhip to the two lad kings of Scotland,Jhad lived in great amity and concord with them, receiv¬ing and interchanging many favours and kind duties.The two competitors alfo, Bruce and Baliol, had asgreat land in England as in Scotland, fo that he, andhe only, was able to make them dand to reafon. Fin-1 ally, the dates of Scotland not being able to determinej the plea, there was no prince befides more powerful,4 THE HISTORY OF> and in appearance, more like to compofe'the contro-verfy, without great blood-fhed. This motion was infecret very greedily embraced by K. Edward, hoping,• in fo troublefome a water, to find a gainful filhing, ei¬ther by drawing the kingdom of Scotland under thedireft fubjedion, or at kail under his homage, as lordparamount and fuperior: Confidering the difficulty todetermine the quetlicn at home, and the intereft he hadiu both parties, being (for a great part of their eftates)his vaffals and fubjeds: his great power alfo, having, 1bifides Ireland, a great part of France under his domi¬nion, and the low countries his aflured confederates,• gave him great encouragement; neither wanted he greatfriendfhip in Scotland, having at that time, many of the,greatek noblemen in Scotland, vaffals and feudalies tohimfclf, for many lands which they held in England,partly for great fervices done to himfelf and his father,partly lying within Northumberland, and the border i ■fhirt-p, then held by the Sdbts in fee of England: Part¬ly alfo by interchange of marriage and fucceflions be-,tween the two nations, which fora long time had lived Iill great amity, as iflt had been one kingdom. And toJSmake the controverfy more fearful, he flirred up other8 competitors befides Bruce and Baliol, Florence earlcf Holland (defeended of Ada) filler to William the ;Tyon ; Patrick Dunbar earl of March ; Sir WalterRofe; Sir Nicholas Soules; Sir Roger Mandeville; SirJohn Cumming of Badenoch, (thefe five were defeend-td of younger daughters of Allan Lord of GallowayJ )Sir William Vifcie, begotten upon king Alexander Ild’fbaftarcl daughter, but pretending to be legitimate; and \John Haftings ford Abergaveny, defeended of Adajyoungcfl daughter to prince David Huntington.Edward having thus prepared matters, came to Ber¬wick, and met with the Hates of Scotland, to whom hepromifed to decide.the controverfy according W equ'tyand that it might feem more likely, he brought froa jjiFrance fundry of the meft famous lawyers of that age;lie cbofe alfc out ,of the ftates of Scotland affemblcdtwelve cf the wiftft and moll honourable, to whom h, |joined the like number of Erglilb. as afkfibrs to him i;Jus arbitrament. At the meeting, by the doubtful pn.SIR WILLIAM WALL'-OS. sfwers of lawyers, and the number of new precedent',lie made the matter more difficult, and appointed a newconvention at Norham, on the border, in the year fol¬lowing.Difficulties thus increafing, and the ear! of Hollandhaving on foot a great army, to take the crowd of Scot¬land by force, (which their own ilories affirm, to havelanded in Scotland, and to have intercepted fomeilrengths) at the meeting of Norham, king Edwarddealt fecrctly, and by fit agents, with the Hates of Scot¬land, for {banning imminent dangers, to become hisfubjefts; he, being dclcended of King David’s inter,and fo but two degrees further from the crown of Scot¬land than Bruce or Baliol were. This being flatly re¬futed by all, he betook him to his other defigo. Andfirft dealt fecretly with Robert Bruce, promifiog to! difeern in his favours, if he would take the crown orScotland holden of him, and do him homage for it.! But he ftoutly refufed to fubjett a free nation to any,'i overt - lord ; whereupon king Edward called for John■ Baliol, who, knowing that i.e was not fo much favour¬ed ot the States of Scotland, eafily cc-ndefcended toi king Edward’s defire and was by him declared king ofScotland ; the States, desirous of peace, conveyed himto Scoon, where he was crowned* anno 1291, and all,except Bruce, fwore obedience to him. ThereafterDuncan Macduff, earl of Fife, was killed by lord Aber-rethy, (a man of great power in thofe times, alliedboth with the Cummings and Baliol;) the earl’s brother,finding the King partial in the adminiftvation of juttice,ifummoned him to compear before the King of Englandiin parliament; where being prefent, and fitting btfide|King Edward, (after he had clone him homage) whenihc was called upon to ar.fwer at the bar. This indigni¬ty grieved him greatly, he refolved to free himfelf oi thisbondage. At the fame time war breaking out betweenEngland and France, king Edward fent ambaffadots tothe parliament of Scotland to fend aid to him, as nowbeing their over-iord. There came alfo other ambnffa-elors from France, defiring the ancient league to be re¬newed. The King and the States of Scotland renewedthe league with France, which had remained, inviok-6 TT'E HISTORY OFbly kept, for the fpace of 500 rears before. The king 1of England’s fuit was rejected, becaufe the pretended■fui render and homage, was made by John Baliol pri¬vately, without the confent of the parliament. A mar¬riage was alfo concluded betwixt prince Edward Baii-ol, and a daughter of Charles ear! of Valois, brother tothe French king Philip. Edward having forfeen allthefe things, had drawn Robert Bruce, earl of Carrick,with his friends, (enemies to Balici) and divers noble¬men of Scotland, who held lands of him in England, ito bring fuch forces as they could make, to afTift him in Ithe French war ; .but withal making truce with the ||Trench for fome months, he fuddenly turned his forces 11deftined againft France, towards Scotland. His na- Uvy was vanquiihed at Berwick, and 18 of his flups taken. K"Yet his land hoft, by the means of the Brucian faftion, tand the Engliihed-Scots noblemen, took the town of j|Berwick; with great flaughter, and Ihortly thereafter, J.Dunbar, Edinburgh and Stirling. In, and about thefe 1:caidles, he had killed and taken captives the greateft part 1;of the Scots noblemen; lb that crofling Forth, the blow Abeing fo fudden, he found no preparation for refinance, B:Baliol furrendered himfelf to King Edward at Mon-IItrofe, and was fent by him into England, where he re-B.mained captive till fuch time as by intercellion of the*Pope, he was fet at liberty, fwearing and giving liolt-A.ages never to return to Scotland, King Edward camellto Scoon, and took upon him the crown of Scotland,|las forfeited by the rebellion of his homager Baliol. Helllent for the nobles of Scotland who remained, that they,Itwith fuch as were his captives, might fwear homage tellhim as to their liege Lord and King, thofe who refuf Med, were detained prifoners.King Edward, thinking thgt now all was fure fo ■-him in Scotland, left John Piantagenet, (fome call him IWarren) earl of Surry, and Sir Hugh Creflinghati |trealurer, aTSd returned to profecute the French wanlltaking fuch of the nobility of Scotland as he feared#along with him, with their followers. The great me Hof Scotland, being in this manner cither imprifoned bjlkinji Edward, or fworn to his obedience, and tied t her tillto by reafon of the lands hoiden of the crown of Ens||. SIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 7: and, the red cither fled into the ifles or highlands, orhought it fuflicient to defend their own till better: iimes.But while men of power negledted the public caufei f the liberty of Scotland. William Wallace, a youth of1 tonourabie birth, being fon to Malcom Wallace of EI-! jierflie, but of mean power, having iirtf in private kiil-i d many Englifhrr.en of the gavrifons as he coiud over-: akc them, by thefe exploits, being fo ercounged, (be-tig a man of invincible hardinefs, incredible Itrength■ If body and withal very wife and crrcumfpebl) that he.! ;athered his friends and neighbours, an I by jeopardiesnd ftratagems, divers times cut off great numbers of1 ite enemy ; the report thereof drew to him, fuch as af-bdled the liberty and the welfare of their country, andad courage to hazard themfelves for vindicating there-f. As namely the earl Malcom Lennox, the lordWilliam Douglas, (who had been taken captive at the(inning of Berwick, whereof he was captain, and fentrome upon afiiirance) Sir John Graham, Sir Ne^ijiampbd, Sir Chriflopher Seaton, Sir John Ramfay,ir Fergus Barclay, Andrew Murray, William Oli-jhant, Hugh Hay, Robert Boyd, John Johnflon,hdatn Gordon, Robert Keith, Ronald Crawford(hunger, Adam Wallace, Roger Kilpatrick, Simonid Alexander Prazers, James Crawford, Rcber-t Lau-pr, Scriminger, Alexander Auchiuleck, Ruthven,tichard Lundie, William Crawford, Arthur Billet,nmes and Robert Lind fay, John Cleland. William4er> Edward Little, Robert Rutherford, Thomasjiaiiiday, John finto, Walter Newbigging, Gerdaui|aird, Gutheries, Adam Currie, Hugh Dunda?, Johnrcott, Stephen Ireland, Mr. John Blair, Mr. ThomasHey, and ether gentlemen with their friends and fer-■ Juts; who after fome valiant exploits happily atchieved,id an army of iO,coo men, led by fhamas earl of Lan¬der to the earl of Warren, defeated by Wallace at Big..•r> (holding-an afferobly at the Forsfl Kirk) chafe Wai-:e to be warden of Shetland, and viceroy in dalioFnice: lu which office, he fo valiantly behaved nimfelf,at in a fhoit fpace he recovered all the ftrength on theiruer, and brought the fouth of Scotland to good quiet.m 1 MAiin i s-waMsaMiM8THE HISTORY OFThe EnglHh fearing the lofs of all, fubtilly tootruce with Wallace for one year, beginning in Febru¬ary. In June following, they proclaimed a Juftice eyreto be held at Glafgow and Air the 18th of that monthJthinking to entrap Wallace and all his friends, and un-|tier colour of law, to cut them off at the day appointed.All landed men according to the cullom, affembling tajthis court, the Engliih condemned them for felony,|and hanged them prefently; amongft the reft, Sir Ror.rjfaid Crawford, {heritf of Air, uncle to Wallace, SinBryce Blair, Sir Neil Montgomery, and many of the!barons of Kyle, Cunningham, Carrick, and ClydefdaleJThofe who efcaped by flight, advertifed Wallace, whc•chanced to come later than the reft. He affemblingInch of the country, as (detefting fo horrible a faft'iextremely hated the authors thereof, in the beginninjv«f the night, fecretly entered into Air, fet fire to thnplace where the Engliflimen, after that faft, were fejcurely fleeping, and fuffered none to efcape. The garlrifon of the caftle iffued forth to quench the fire, a |ambufh, laid for the purpofe, entered the houfe an|and made it fure. The next morning Wallace came t [Glafgow, where the Lord Henry Piercy had retirelfrom Air the day before; him he expulfed thence witgreat fiaughter. The victory he fo hotly purfued, th;|immediately thereafter he took the caftle of StirlinJrecovered Argyll, and Lorn, with the town of SIJohniloun, and country about; thence he travel!#!thro’ Angus and Mea :s, taking in a!! the ftrength u[til he came to Aberdeen, which he found forfaken l|the Englifn, who had fled by fea, with the lord Helry Beaumont, an Eagliftr lord, who had marriedheritrix of the earldom of Buchan, named CumminlThus all the north country was reduced to the obejcnce of Wallace, except the caftle of Dundee; while ||lay at the liege thereof, news came of the approach Jthe Engli/h army, led by John earl of Warren and Si»■iy, and Sir Hugh Culnngham with a great numberNorthumberland men, and fuch of the Scots as hJwith England, to the number of 30,000. Wallhaving with him 10,000 men hardened in arms, 11him befide Stirling, on the north fide of the ,ForjSIR WILLIAM WALLACE, 9which having no fords at that place, was paffible onH-|by a wooden bridge. This he on p rrpofe had cnuiVdto be weakened, fo that the one half of the hofl beingipaft, led by Creflingham, the bridge broke with thegreat weight of their baggage. Thofe who were comelover, Wallace charged fuddenly, before they were put'a order, and cut the molt part in pieces, with theirleader CrefTmgham : the reft feekiog to efcape weredrowned in the water. The earl of Warren, and thofethat efcaped, were aflailed by earl Malcom Lennox,captain of Stirling caiile, and being hotly purfued by; Wallace, hardly efcaped, himfelf flying into Dunbar,■ i cattle then belonging to the earl of March. In thisrattle, fought the 13th of September, 1297, there di-i'd no Scotsman of remark, but Andrew Murray of■ pothwel. The Englifh garrifons hearing of this dif-: i'orr.titnre, fled :r. om all places, fa that before the lafi>f September, all the ftrengths of Scotland, were re-irovered except Berwick and Roxburgh.'|l After thofe viftories he held a parliament at St.iMohnfto'.in, as warden of Scotland, and fettled theilivhole country, caufing the nobility to fwear to be(faithful to the State, til! fuch times as they might con-itefeend who fhould be King : Earl Patrick Dunbarictufiug to acknowledge the authority of this parlia¬ment, was chafed out of Scotland: and becaufe the•ifearby-paft, the greundhad not beentnanured, and great(fcmiue threatened the land, Wallace aflembled a greatloft, and entered England, where he remained all thejdnter and the fpring following, living upon the ene-iies’ provifions, and enriching his foldiers by their fpoil ;hiring which time the Engliih durft never encounter(im in open field : Only at the firft entry, King Ed-fard, with a great army of raw foldiers, came againifcim in the plain of Stanmure; but perceiving the dif-fpline and hardy refolution of Wallace’s hoft, beforehty came nearer than half a mile, drew back his armyid retired : Wallace for fear of ambufti, kept his foldiersfi order, and purfued them not. Thus King Edwardhis country to the mercy of a provoked enemy ;id notwithftanding that he promifed battle, yet he keptI i in ft If dole till a peace was concluded fot five yea;^10■THE HISTORY OFBerwick and Roxburgh being rendered to the Scots.Scotland thus enjoying perfect liberty, Wallace, be¬ing earneftly requeued by the French King, to the endthat his fpccial captains might be kept in military exercile during the peace, failed over to France, with ycof them in his company. He was encountered on theway by Thomas of Charters, (common!)—"■’J rpi of Longuviile,) who, with 16 fail, infelhboarding Wallace’s fhip he was takerthereafter fought mofl: valiantly underRobert Bruce, for the liberty of Scotianlace landed in France, he was employedthe Eoglifn, who at that time pofieffetGtnenne and Bordeaux; them he defeIkirmilhes. But in a few days he was ifome of his friends in Scotland! for Kinderftanding his abfence, and pretending’the peace in Guienne, dealt with RoberCarrick, and his friends, and with fucScotland as held lands in England, or erglory, telling that it was a lhame forWallace a mean gentleman to rule Scotl;land, and hy the help of the Brucian fadi1 idled noblemen, he ealily obtained thegnctf Scotland. Wallace returned the nexfecretly airiaffiiig a number of his fpecia!had lurked till his back-coming, on a fuSt. Johnfloun by a llratagem. and purfuhotly, chafed the Englifh cut of Fife,port hereof, all the reft of his followetheir lurking holes, by whofe afliftancedivers ftrengths. The Lord Williamthe cattle of Sanquhar by a firatagem, aEnglidi captains of the neareft garrifons iliege him, he fent iecretly to Wallace,with his power, not only railed the fiegall the Engliih garrifons out of thefe qi.whence he came to the ngrtb parts, whiced with fmah' difficulty,, except the firL'utjdee, to which l.c laid fieg?.of the blood royal did remain ; fo prorrance to Robert Bruce, he fent a great a:kSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. it.The King of England, grieved -it the fortunate fuc-cefs of Wallace, and understanding that he was highly-envied by the earl of March, the Cummings, (thegreatel! fumame then in Scotland) and divers ancientnoblemen, (from whofehonour Wallace’s renown feem-ed to derogate) he ftirred up Robert Bruce elder, and.his faction, perfuading them that Wallace was Bruce’sonly competitor for the crown. Having fo made aftroug party for himfelf in the next fpring he camewith an army of forty thoufand men, Scots and Eng-hfh, to Falkirk, fix miles from Stirling. The Scotsarmy was very great, being thirty thoufand ftrong, ifthey had been all of one mind. For John Cummin^lord of Cumbernauld, (who had an eye to the crown)ihad perfuaded the lord John Stewart of Bute, being-tutor, and grandfather by the mother, to the lordJames Stewart of Renfrew, lately deceafed, to contendwith Wallace for the leading of the van-guard, alledg¬ing that the fame belonged to the lord Stewart’s houfeby ancient privilege. Wallace refufing this, they part¬ed one frem another in high chaff, there remainingwith him no more than 10,000 of his old foldiers.Gumming with 10,000 of his followers, after a fmaUfhew of refillance, fled treafonably, leaving the valiantStewart inclofed by two battalions of the Englilh, bywhom, after he had fought valiantly for a long time,he was cut off with all his followers. Wallace with hisparty defended themfdves valiantly, until they wereI fafeiy retired beyond the river Carron, lofing (befidesfome others) the noble Sir John Graham, the moft va¬liant worthy of Scotland, next unto Wallace. Bruce,whom the king of England had brought with all hisfriends into the field, pretending to allill him for re¬covery of his tight from the ufurper. Bruce, perceiv¬ing Wallace on the ether fide the Carron, defired tofpeak with him, and upbraiding him with fo foolifh a:iufurpation of the kingdom of Scotland, againft fo pow¬erful a faction at home, afiiiled by fo mighty a kingabroad. I, anfwered Wallace, intend never to reign:in Scotland, but finding my native country abandoned-by you and Baliol, who have the right to the crown*have fet myfelf to defend my friends and neighbours.THE HISTORY O ? '«fr> '.n (he iinjnfl tyranny and nfurpation of the king ofEng-lar.d, who feiteth yon forth mod unnaturally toteir the bowels of your mother with your own hands.After divers fpeeches to this purpofe, Bruce, perceiv-:n ' the fraudful and tyranous dealing of king Edward,returned to the hoft The ifext morning Wallace,U! Jerilanding that the Englifh army was weakly en¬trenched and in great fecurity, arcafiing with his ownarmy fuch as had efcaped, fet upon them in the dawn¬ing before they could be arrayed, and killed many: fothat the Engliih king returned at that time vhthont a-ny further exploit. Bruce, remembering what he heardof Wallace, defired king Edward, according to his for¬mer protnifes, to put him in poffenion of fo mucli ofthe kingdom of Scotland as then was under his power;to wliom he anfwered in the Fttnch tongue, < Have weno more ado, but conquer kingdoms for you.’ Bythis fpeech the lord Bruce conceived fo great grief andanger, that within few days he departed this life with¬out feeing his elded: foil Robert Bruce, afterward*King, he being kept for adurance of his father’s obe¬dience in Calai , caftle in France.After this unhappy battle, Wallace, driving to re¬cover fuch cadlcs and ftrength as king Edward had in¬tercepted, found fuch oppolition and back ward nefs, byenvious emulators, that he returned to St. Johndoun,and. in the affembly of the States, refigned his charge11of warden, and with 18 men palled again into France,according to a promife at his return therefrom. This |fell out at the end of the year }OG. The oppollte ]faftion having gained their defite, chafe lohn Gum¬ming governor; ths rather becalife king Edward hadpromifed to aflid him to the crown of Scotland. BulIIhe found him as great an enemy as he had been to IWallace. For after ieven months truce, obtained byllmeans of the French king, Edward fent Sir RalphGodfrey with a great army to fubdue the Scots, and®to put an end to the war, which they expedited wouldfbe eafv, Wallace being now out of the way. Johi jiGumming, joining with the lord * non Frazer, mak-flug S ory,ooo men, came to reft .tie Englilh, who kavjiiig V ailed ti:e coantry as far tloflin, about five inilejS III WILLI A.M WALLACE. 13• i ifra:n Edinburgh, expefting no refiftance, divid2d them-felves into three parties, that they might fpoil farther in¬to the country. The Scots embracing the occafion,fet upon the Hrlt diviiion, and eafily difcomfited them;Ithe fecond alfo, albeit flronger by the joining of thofewho fled, was after a long condidt put to the rout.By this the third diviiion, coming to the revenge, putthe Scots to a great flrait, as being forely wounded,1 wearied, and weakened, in the two former battles, andhaving to withtland a frefli enemy, of far greater number:hereupon they were forced to kill ali the captives, left, they fiiould afiiil the enemy, and with their weapons: to arm the baggage men : and fet ting forward both1 with courage and neceffity, feeing no efcape, after aI long and hard fight, they put the enemy to flight.: This was Match 24th, 1302.King Edward, fore incenfed by this evil fuccefs,! fent for Robert Bruce younger out of Calais, whomhe perfuaded, that he had tor a long time, againfti \ Wallace, defended his father’s right to the crown ofScotland : that having pir Wallace out of the way, he! found the Cummings as great enemies : Notwithftand-ing, he intended yet once more to pot that enemy outof the way, and to fettle him in his kingdom. The\ young prince believing him, caufed all his friends and1|| favourers in Scotland, to join with him, and enteringthe border, fpoikd the count)y, and took divers caftlesI as far as Douglas. Some report that the Lady Dnug-. las, named Berras, an Engli'h woman, betrayed thatcaflie to the Bruce, who took the lord William Doi’n--las captive, with all his children and goods. The lordhimfelf was kept priioner in Berwick, and thereafte'rin York, where he died. Meantime, king Edwardhad prepared a mighty army, both by land and fea,with which he entered Scotland, and fubdued all be¬fore him while lie came to Stirling, kept then by SirWilliam Oliphant, who after a Ion j- liege, knowing ofno relief, yielded the caftle upon condition, that him-•fflf and all that were with him, fliould pafs with theirli.es fafe: Not.vithftanding king Edward kept llill allthe noblemen, together with the captain Sm iVi'lfamOliphdnt; and fuch as would not fwear homage to| HIUHHIIVI14 THE HISTORY OFhim, (pretending to be the protector of Robertright) he fent prifoners to London. Havingcaftle intercepted divers of John Cumming’s friends, heprocured them tc draw him to a parley with him; inwhich he-fo blinded him with the hopes of the king*dom, and with fear of utter undoing, that he joined him-1felf and his friends to the Englifh ; who, by this accef-fion,*eafiiy paffed forward with the courfe of vidtory, asfar as the utmoft bounds of Rofs: and in his back com¬ing, carried away with him into England all books, regi-ilers, hiftories, laws, and monuments of the kingdom :and among others, the fatal marble chair, where uponthe former Scots Kings ufed to be crowned at Scoon,on which was engraven a prophecy,bearing,‘That when¬ever this chair Ihould be tranfported, the Scots fhouldcommand there.’ He carried alfo with him all thelearned men and profeffors of Scotland, among othersthe famous Doclor John Duns, furnamed Scotus,thinking thereby to difeourage and effeminate theminds of the Scots, that they fhould caft off all care ofrecovering their liberty, the memory thereof beingdrowned in oblivion. At his return into England, heleft his coufin, Sir Aymer VallancC, carl of Pembroke,viceroy, having fortified all the caitles with flrong gar-rifons.The Scots who flood for the liberty of their country,being forfaken -by John Gumming, fent earned, letters toFrance to move Wallace to return. He was then mak¬ing war upon the Englifh in Guienne; but hearingthe mifehk-fs of his country, he obtained leave of theFrench king to return; and fecretly gathering fome ofhis old friends, recovered divers cailles and towns hithe north, and having greatly iucreafed his army, be-fieged St. Johnftoun, till it furrendered. But as heproceeded in the courfe of his victories, he was betray¬ed by his familiar friend, Sir John Monteith, to Ay¬mer de Vallance, w'ho fent him into England, where,by king Edward’s command, he was put to death, andhis body quartered, and fent into the principal cities ofScotland, to be fet up for a terror to others.Nolwithflanding, this cruelty prevailed little for theaffuring of king Edward’s conqueft} new enemies ari-SIP-WILLIAM WALLACE. i*fing whence he lead expefted ; far aa he returned fromhis laft journey into Scotland, John Cumming andRobert Bruce meeting together, after a long confer¬ence on the (late of their country, perceived, that not-withflanding he had promifed to each of them aparthis help to obtain the Crown of Scotland, yet his inten¬tion was only to ufe their affiftance to conquer and fe-cure it to himfelf, as he well declared, by fpoiling thethe country of all monuments, public and private.Hereupon they agreed, that Gumming fliould quit allhis rights to the crown in favours of Bruce, and thatBruce (hould give him all his lands for his afliilance,and this contraft was written and fealed by1 both par¬ties. Upon this Bruce, watching an opportunity torife in arms, left his wife and children in Scotland, andwent to the court of England. After his departure.Gumming (as it is reported) either repenting himfelfof this agreement, or ellc endeavouring fradulantly tooppofe his co-rival, and fo obtain a eauer way to thekingdom, revealed their fecret combination to Edward;and in evidence of it, he fent him the covenant fignedby them both. Upon thatf Bruce was impleaded asguilty of high, treafon : he was forbidden to depart thecourt, and a private guard fet over him, to infpeeft hiswords and aftions. The king’s delay to punidr himfor a crime fo mmifell, proceeded from a defire he hadto take his brethren too, before they had heard anynoife of his execution.Bruce advertifed of his danger by the earl of Glocef-ter (fome call him the earl of Montgomery) his oldfriend, who had fent him a pair of (harp fpurs, and fomecrowns of gold, as if he had borrowed the fame, guef-fng the meaning of this propine, caufed by night, ihoethree horfes backward, and polled away from courtwith two in his company, and on the fifth day (theway being deep in winter,) arrived at his own caftle ofLochmabenl where he found his brother Edward,with Robert Fleming, James Lindfay, Robert Kilpa¬trick, and Thomas Charters, who told him how Wal¬lace was betrayed by Sir John Monteith, and theGumming faftion a few days before. Immediatelythereafter they intercepted a meffenger With letters16THE HISTORY OFfrom Gumming to king Edward, defiriijg that Brucefhould be diipatched in hafte, left being a noblemanmuch favoured b)' the commons he Ihould raife greaterilirs. The treachery of John Gumming, before onlyfufpe<5ted, was hereby made manifeft, which fo incenf-ed the Lord Bruce, that riding to Dumfries, and find¬ing Gumming at the mafs of the Grey-Friers, after hehad /hewn him his letters, in impatience, he ftabbedhim with his dagger; and others who were about hirndoin£ the like, not only difpatched him, but alfo hiscoufin Sir Edward Gumming, and others who aluiledhim. This daughter fell out on the 9th of February,in the year 1306. as we now account.The Bruce thus rid of one enemy, found a greatnumber as it were rifing out of his afhes, even thewhole puifant name of Gumming, with their allies, theearl of March, the lord of Lorn, the lord of Aberne-thy, the lord of Brechin, the lord Souks, the moftpart of the North, and all Galloway followed theCummings’: the ear! of March, the lord William Soulescommanded the Mtrfe, with Berwick and the border;all which they yielded to king Edward, and maintain¬ed again ft Robert Bruce. At the fame time his two^brothers, Thomas and Alexander Bruce, with RonaldCrawford younger, Lcretly landing in Galloway, weretaken by Duncan Macdougnl a great man in Gallo-way, and Tmt to King Edward, who caufed them all-three to be hanged. On the other fide affembled tohim, btfide thefe above named, the young lord JamesDouglas, (who hearing of his father’s death, had re¬turned from France, where he was at fchool, and Raida time with his kinfman, William Lamberton, biihcpof St. Andrews,) earl Malcom Lennox, earl John ofAthol, (although of the Gumming blood, yet bemgfather in-law to Edward Bruce,) Sir Neil Campbell,Sir Gilbert Hay, Sir Chriftopher Seaton, Sir Tho¬mas Ronald, Sir Hugh Hay, John Somerville, DavidBarclay, Alexander and Simon Frazer, Sir RobertBoyd, Sir William Halyburton, with fundry who hadftood *with Wallace before. With this company hepail into Sep on, and took upon him the crown of Scot¬land, in April 1309. After this he gathered an army,SIR. WILLIAM WALLACE. 17minding to bdiege St. Johnftoun. Hut finding bis powertoo v eak, he retired to Methven, where he was unev;pe<51:-ed!y aflaulted and riifcomtited by Sir Aymer de yallance,but with fmall Ids of men, except fome who were taken, asRandal, Barclay, Frazer, Inchmartine, Somerville, and SirI Hugh Hay, who were conftrained to f.vear homage to kingEdward. The commons difeouraged with this iiard luc-cefs, fearing the Englifh, forfook the new king; who had afmal! company of gentlemen about him, with whom he tra¬velled towards Argyll, meaning to lurk for a time with hisbrother-in-law, Sir Neil Campbell, but he was encounteiedby the way, by John of Lorn, confir. to John Camming andconftrained to flee, albeit with ftnail flaughter of his ownfolk. After this fecond difeomfiture, he fent his Queen,(being daughter to Gratney earl of Mar.) with his brotherSir Neil Bruce, and John earl of Athol, to the caltleof Kil-drimmy, in Mar. The king of F.ng'and fent his fon, princeEdward with a mighty hoft, to befiege this caftle. TheQueen hearing this, fled to the Frith of Tain in Rofs: butthe earl of Rofs, took her and her daughter, and fent themcaptives into England. The cable of Kildrimmy was trai-j toroufly burnt by one of the garrilon: all that were thereintaken and hanged, at the command of the Englifh King.Robert, feeing winter approaching, and finding no re¬treat in the main land, retired with his molt entire friends,to his old friend Angus, lord of the ifles : with whom heRayed a fliort time in Kintyre, and thereafter failed overiimo the id? of Raughline, where he lurked all the winter;every man fuppofing him to be dead. The next fpring he-lapded quietly in Garrick, and on a fudden intercepted hisown cable of Turnberry. The Lord Piercy flying home outof it to his own country. Sir James Douglas departingthence fecretly, came into Dovgias-daie, and by means ofThomas Dickion, an oid fetvant of his father’s, he recov¬ered his own cable of Douglas, and cab it flown once aridagain; thereafter he returned to king Robert, to Cumnock,Clewing him that Aymer de Vallance, and John of Lorn,with an army, were coming againb him. i he King withJ00 valiant men kept themfelves in a llrong place, waitingwhile Sir Aymer would inv„de t but took no heed 50 Johncf Lorn, who fetching a compds, f‘-t upon his buck with1800 h;ghlandm.en, and had well nigh in doled them about.The king perceiving the danger, divided his men in three:and appointing where they fhouid meet at night, fledjUneefur.dry ways. John of Lorn having a floth-honnd, purlu-ed bill aher the king ; who putting away all Mist were inhis company, fave one man, fled into the next wood, andwith gre«t difficulty efcaped the fictlv hound, \ir tymer,dilappoiaud of this ecterprize, Ihtr.ly thereafter, with38 THE HISTORY Ofi JOO chofen mert, verv nenr furp^rized the king in Gien-tele-wood ; But the king with his men taking courage,refoluteiv defended the place, which was very ftrong, andkfling dirers of the sirlt who afTauhed them, the reft fledback. Therefore, with more courage, he went into thefick’s, reduced Kyis and Cunningham to his obedience, SirJames Douglas a!fo, with 60 men lying in an ambafh at a1 trait place in Cunningham, called the tN'etherforu; w hereSir Philip Monbray was palling, with toco men againltthe king, being then in Kyle, killed many of them andpm the rdf tonight. On May loth following, S>r \ymerwith 3000 men came againlt the king, then lying in Ga!- ||ftonin Kyle: King Robert liearing of his coming, albeit heexceeded net 6co men, came forth againlt him at a placeunder Loudon hill, which he fo fortified on every handwith dykes and foufies, that the enemy could net mciofe Ihim cc both tides; and fo by the flout and relblure valourof fo few, Sir Aymer was put to flight, which he took fo ■fore to heart that he retired into England, and gave overhis office of warden or viceroy, John of Britain earl ct.Richmond being lent into Scot’anu in his place.King Robert after this palt into the north, leaving SirJames Dtuglas on the borders, who, taking bis own callleof Douglas by a tlratsgem, razed it to (he ground, and ina few days chafed all the Engiilh out cf Deuglas dale, Et-trick forelF, and leohurgh tore It, and took Sir ThomasRandal the King’s Sitter’s ion, (who had followed theEngiilh ever fince his captivity,) and Sir Alexander Stew¬art of Bunkle. Sir Alexander and Simon Frazer, meetingking Robert in the north, lltewed him, how-John Curn-ixnng earl oi Buchan, David lord Brethin, Sir John Mou-biay, ?,nd the reft of the Camming fadion, were gather¬ing an army againM him Mean w hile, by the affi:lance of jhis f;tends m theic; quaiters, on a fudden he furprizM the “cattle o-r inverncfs, the tame of which vsfiory caufed manyother tirengths 'o yi» It!: all which heoveithrew and great¬ly incrcafed the-nurabtt of his ftiehds. In his re,urn, tak¬ing heknefs at Inverury. Camming let upon him. The ;King, after his friends had lor a time defended him, re¬covering fornewhat, went out to the field, and fo hardly af-laulttd ius enemy at Old Meldrum, that a'bdt their num¬ber was far greater, yet they took their flight, cVitb thelike fuccefs he let upon the King, in Glenalk in Angus,whet£, being Ihameiully put to riigiu. he flee! into Eng¬land, with Sir John ftieubray, and cisd there ihortlyafter. iLord David Brechin fori died his own cal He, fret Davidearl of Athol, forced him to yield it and htmleifto theKing. Mean lime, I’hdtp Frcz- r took the callle of For¬far: and ihe King, puiiuing this victory, reduced all the . •SIR WILLIAM WALL ACE. 29inorth to his obedience ; and joining with the lord James'Douglas, returning from the ibuth with his tSo captives,:he touk St, Johnitoun by futprizal: from thence he paf-jfed into Lorn, the Lord whereof had ambufhed two thoa-Lnd men, cn the fide of a deep hill, where the King be-'hoved to enter through a navrow paflige,: but Sir JamesDruglas, with Sir Alexander Frazer; and Sir AndrewGray, climbing the hill, came ludtienlv on their backs,rand put them to flight. John of Lorn fled into England „i'by fea: his father. Lord Alexander M Dougal, yieldedihimfelf and the caiile of Dunftaffnage to the King.By thefe mean?, a!! on the north fide of Forth was rc-Iduced to cbedlence; Sir Edvard, his brother, in the meanttime, who by long and hard fighting, bad conquered GA*loway, James Douglas, bya ffratagem, furprifed the ftrong1 cajtle of Roxburgh on the Faden’s-even, while all the gar-i rifon (after the cufiom of the time) were feailing and play¬ing the riot. Tits report whereof, fo whetted the viiiantilhcmas Randal newly reftored to his uncle’s favour, and1 made earl of Murray, that having befit-ged the cattle of E-I dioburgb for fome months, he let himlelr bv aii means to: carry the fame, which he obtained by a narrow paflkge upthrong!! the rock, difcovcred by him : by which he andfttndry flout gentlemen lecretly patted up, and healing theI, w?.!‘, after long and dangerous lighting, made themfeives(maflets of the p’ace. The garrifonr of Rutherglen? La-netk, Dumfries, Air, Dundee, and Bute, hearing this,yielded up thefe callles, which were all razed. The iflebfII Man, aifo returned to the obedience of the crown of Scot¬land. Sir Edward Bruce, having belEged Sliding cattlethree months, agreed with the captain, Sir Philip Mou-J bray, that if the King of f pgland did not relcue him withi! in ,2 montlis thereafter, the caftie fhoulu be yielded toI King Robert. Albeit this fcemed a raih piovocation of foI ni’ghty a King as Edward Longlhanks: (but far degener-t ate from his valour) having nor only England and Ireland,i end many Englifhed Scots, with the duchy of Guienne,| Bourdeaux, and other parts of France fubjedt to hint, but( alio the low countries itridtly confederate with him: yet\ King R.cbert prepared hirnielf to encounter him in thefields, and gathered ;y,oco men, few, but valiant. Theking of England had above ioo,cco foot, and to,coohorle : with which multitude, intending to deltroy the in¬habitants of Scotland, and to divide the land to his follow¬ers, ’he came to Bannockburn, .’two miles from burling,)where 0,1 June 2i!f, 1314- lie was encountered by theSects, and alter long and hard fighting, his. great armyput to the rout : himfelf with a fmai! company, fleeing in¬to Dunbar, was font by the Earl of March into Englandso AN ACCOUNT OF THEin a fifher-boat, leavirg 500 noblemen and Rertlemen ki!e|| ■led by the -cots, and as maty taken : the number of thecommons flain and uken was incredible. Of Scots vsreri||-flain two gefitlemen of note, Sir vViHiam Wepont, andSir U'alter Kofs, with 4000 common fqlJiers.After this vifiory, Stirling being yielded, and DambarJlton gotten by competition, tbe Karl of March, the LoriSoules, and Abernethy, and others of the Cumrmngs’ aLjlies, w^ere reconciled to the King, who pad into the ifles,and brought them to obedience, taking John of Lorn]captive, who died in prifoo in Bochleven. Tnos Sco landwas freed of the bondage of England, except Berwick!which was recovered font years thereafter, 1513, and the!Scots making divers incutlions into England, under the!leading of Lai 1 Thomas Randal, and Janies lord Douglas,1requitted the harms teceived from them before, and en¬riched themfelves with their fpoil.As for the Authority of thde two hillories, altho’ theyjpollibly ere in forae circunrfLnces of time, p!;ce, and num¬ber, or names of men, yet generally they write the truti*]of the ftory of thefe times, both at greater length, and!upon more certain information, than thofe who have wrii*i|ten cur Chronicles. So committing them to thy dtiigeeperufal, (gentle and courteous reader,) I wifh thee profit Jthereby, and all happinefs from God- Fare we!.A fhort ACCOUNT of the Battle of BANNOCKBURN, |- which was fought, June 24th, 1314.TJ DWARD D. kept up the fame claim in Scotland IJL!: which his father had begun: and. aficr feverai unfi:c-'|cefsful attempts to efiahlifll it, he refolved to make a great Ieffort, and at once reduce that turbulent nation, which had Iput ib many figna! afiror.ts upon his. father and lrimfelf.ilIn the-fpriag, 1514. he ailembled the mod numerous Iamty that had ever crofled the border.', compofed of dif- |fertr,! rations, and amounting to above 100,000 etlebave 1men, befides, a huge multitude of attendants, who cam egalong, in hopes of fharirg in the plunder of a conquered*enemy. At the head of thefe ho marched northward withan uncommon parade, and in full confidence of victory, fiRobert Bruce, the. forv of that Robert Bruce who held aconference with Wallace upon the banks of the Carton,fend grandfon of him who had been competitor with Ba-liol, liad, in 1309,being informed ofbeen crowned king of Scotland, andEdward’s (oimid-bie preparaiions, heraifed an army of 30,000 of bis fufjects to cppqfe him. ,This armameut bore but a Iniall propoition to that of Ed¬ward s ; but it was compofed - f ifo-idiers, who were hard-,ened by long praAtce of war, and who now carried uponBATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN. sithe po^nt of the iword, liberty and honour, and everything that was dear to them. With thefe Robert took uphis Hatton in the neighbourhood of Stirling, and waitedtor Fdwaid's arrival. The two armies came in light ofeach other, in the month of June, and foon after, a bloodybattle was fought, in which the Scots obtained a vtfhny,the moll celebrated ol any in the annals of that kingdom.'The procedure of that memorable event, was as follows.The Englifh, marched from Edinburgh to Falkirk inione day, and upon the morrow, fitting o<:t from thence'toward? Stirling, encamped to the northward of the Tor-(wood. About upper Bannockburn, and backward upon|the muir of Piean, in the neighbourhood of the ancientHoman caufeway, pieces of broken pots, and other veffelshfive been found ; and upon rcckr. near the furface, marksiof fire have been difeovered, where it is luppofed the fol-idiers had made ready their provifions. Barbour, the au¬thor of King Robert Bruce’s life, fpeaks as if their camp, had Uretched fp far northward, as to occupy a part of the, Caife ground ; and fo valf a multitude mult doubtlefs have; covered a large trait of country.The Scoitiih army was potted about a mile to the north-'ward, upon fever,d eminences, fbuth from the prefent vil¬lage of St. Ninians. Upon the fummit of one of thefe e-i ininences, now ceiled Btock’s-Bare, is a Hone funk into! the earth, wfitli a round hole in it, near three inches indiameter, and much the lame in depth, in which, accord-j] ing to tradition. King Robert’s itandard was fixed, thei royal tent having been ered’ted near it. This (lone is welli known in that neig! rhood, by the name of the Bore-I liane. The fmall iiver of Bannockburn, remarkable forits fteep and rugged banks, ran in a narrow valley betweenI: the two camps.. The cable of Stirling was (till in the hands of the Eng*i lifii, Edward Bruce., the King’s brother, had in the fpring| of this year, laid liege to it, but found himfelf obliged toi abandon the enterpriie; only by a treaty between that.1 I’tir.ce, and Moubray the governor, it was agreed, thatI if the garrifon received no relief from England before a( year expired, they (hould furrender to the Sees. Theif day preceding the battle, a llrong body of cavalry, to the:j number ol 800, was detached from the Englifh camp,:J under the conduct of Lord Clifford, to the relief of that:) gairifitn. Thefe having matched through fame hollowtj grounds upon the edge of the Carfe, had palled the Scots} army before they were obietved. The Xing hiinfelf wasil the firft that perceived them, and dtfirlng Thomas Ran-1 dolph, ear! of Murrav. to lock towards the place where\ they were, told him, that a role had (alien from his chap-22 AN ACCOUNT OF THElet.’ Randolph, Confidering this as a reproach, hecaufe htjhad the charge of that oart, thro’ which the Er,g!i(h hacjimarched, immediately fet oat after them with a oatty oiji500 liorfe, and coming up with them, in the plain ’.vl.citjlt!',e fmal! village of New-houfe now liands, a iharp a«ftiorcnfued, in fight of both armies, and of the garrilon (»Stirling. It was fought with valour on both fide* : and iwas fbme time doubtful where viftory would turn. KingRobert attended by feme of his officers, beheld the encoun¬ter from a rifi:v ground, fuppofed to be the round hill immediately upon the weft of St. Ninians, now call 'd Cock*fhot-hill, Sir lantes Douglas, perceiving the diftrefe of R.an-dolph, who was greatly inferior to the enemy in numbers,sliced leave to go to his fupport. This King Robert atfird refused, but afterwards confenting, Douglas put hi‘jloldiers in motion ; obferving, however, as he was on theway, that the victory was upon the point of being wo.ajiwithout his aiMance, he flopped fltort, that his friendmight have the unrivalled glory of it. The Englifh wereentirely defeated, and many of them flain; and Randolphreturned to the camp amidft acclamations of univerfal joy.To perpetuate the memory of this viftory, twm flones werereared up in the field, and are Hilt to be fecn there. TheyHand in a fpot which has lately been enclofed_ for a garde®at the north end of the village of New-houfe, and aboutia quarter of a mile, from the Borough-port of Stirling.This viftory gave new fpirits to the whole army, ar.d;made them fo eager for the general engagement, that thenight, tbo’ among rise fhorteft of the year, feemed long to.them. Edward too, exafperated at the defeat of his detach¬ment, was determined to bring on u.e battle on the moi*row. At length appeared the dawn of that important day,,which \v* s to decide, whether Scotland was henceforth tobe an independent kingdom, or fubjeft to a foreign yoke.Early all was in motion in both armies; religious fenti-ments were mingled with the military ardour of the Scots;a Solemn Mafs, in the manner of thefe times, was faid bythe Abbot of Inchaifery, a monaftary in Strathern, whoaifo adminiftred the Sacrament to the King and the greatofficers about him, while inferior prieffs did the fame tothe reft of the army. After this they formed in order of 1battle, in a track of ground called Nether-Touchadant,which lies along the declivity of a gentle rifing hill. Thislituatioo had been previoufly chofen b^caufe of its advan¬tages. Upon the right they had a range of fteep rocks,now called Murray’s Craig, and in their front, were fleepbanks of the rivulet or Bannockburn. Not far behindthem was a wood ; fome vefliges of which {fill remain. |Upon the left wa* a morafs, now called Milton-bog, from JjBATTLE OF BANNOCKBUR M. 2?it? vicinity to a fma'I village of that name: much of thisbog is ft)!! undrained, and a part of it is at prefent a milldam. As it was then the middle of dimmer, it was a’naofiquite dry. But King Robert had reeourfe to a ifratagem,in order to prevent any attack from that quarter. He hadordered many ditches and pits to be digged in the rsorafs,and ifake:, fharpenedat both ends, to be driven into them,and the whole to be covered over again with green turf,fo that the ground bad IfilL appearance of being firm. Heaifo ciufed crow-feet, or fharp painted irons to be-fcatter-ed throughout the morals: feme of them have been foundthere to the memorv of people ffill living s the fame man¬euvers were likewife carried on far a little way along thefront of the left wing; for there the banks, for abouttwo hundred yards, being more flat than they are anywhere eile, it was the only place where the enemy couldoafs the river in any fort of order. By means of thefeartificial improvement', joined to the natural Ifrength ofthe ground, the Scots army flood as within an entrench-menu and the invifibie pits and ditches anlwered the con¬cealed batteries of more modern times.Amongfl the other occurences of this memorable day,hifforians mention an accideatof a Angular nature. As thetwo armies were about to engage. The Abbot of Inchafferypofting hirnfelf before the Scots with a crucifix in his hand,■ they all feif down unon their knees in the aft of devotion. The enemy obferving them in fo uncommon a pol-ture concluded that they were frighted into fubmjiiion. andthat, by kneeling, when they fhould be ready to figlu, theymeant to furrender at diferetion. and only to beg their lives ibut they were foon undeceived, when they law them rifeagain, and Hand to their arms with fleady countenances.The Euglifh began the aftton, by a briik charge uponthe left wing of the Scots commanded by Randolph, nearthe fpot, where the bridge is now thrown over the river,at the fmall village of Charter’s hall. Hereabout was theonly place where-the river could be crcffed in any order,A large body of cavalry advanced to attack him in front,while another fetched a compafs to tall upon his flank andrear, but before they could come to cbfs engagement,they fell into the fnare that had been laid for them. Ma¬ny of their hoifes were ioon difabfed, by the fharp ironsruffling into their feet, others tumbled into the concealedpus, and could not difcntangle themfeives. Pieces of theirbarneffing, with bits of broken fpears, and other armours,‘ liill continue to be dug up in the bog.In the beginning ot the engagement, anircident hap¬pened, which, tho’ in itfelf of fmall moment, was render¬ed important by its confequences. King Robert was mount-24 AN ACCOUNT OF THE, &c.ed on horfeback carryings battle ait in In’s hand, and up*,on his helmet, he wore a high rurbin in the form of a crown,by wayof diflinftton. This, together withhis activity, ren¬dered him very confpicuous as he rede before the fines. AnFngiifh Knight, named Bofiun, who was ranked amongthe braveft in King Edward’s army, came galloping furi-oufly up to him, in order to engage with him in fingkcombat, enpe&ing by fb eminent an a<Sof chivalry, at onceto put an end to the conteft, and gain immortal renown tohimfelf: but the enterprizing champion, having mifled tltefirlt blow, was immediately Ifruck dead with the battle-axwhich the King carried in his hand. This was a fort of alignal for the charge. So bold an attack upon their Kingfilled the Scots with fentiments of revenge; and the hero>catchievement performed by’him before their eyes, raifedtheir fpints to the highelt pitch. They rufhed furioufiy up¬on the enemy, who, having by this time pafl'cd the riverin great numbers, gave them a warm reception.A Angular occurence, which feme accounts reprefentas an accidental fally of patriotic enthuliafm, others as apre-meditated (tratagem of King Robert’s, luddenly alteredthe face of affairs, and contributed greatly to the vidlory :All the fcrvants and attendants of the Scottifh army, whoare faid to have amounted to 20,000, had been orderedbefore the battle, to retire behind Murray’s craig. Buthaving, during the engagement, arranged themfelves in amartial form, they marched to the -.op of the hill, and dil-playing white Jheets fixed upon poles, inltead ot banners,moved towards the field of battle, with hideous (bouts.The ifnglifh, perceiving this moldy crowd, and takingthem for a frem reinforcement, advancing to fupport theScots, were ieized with a great pannic, that they began togive way in conhifion. Buchanan fays, that the King ofEngland was the firlt who fled ; but in this he contracli<3sail other hiftorians, who affirm, that he was among thelait in the field. The Scots purfued, and great was theflaugbter among the enemy, efpecially in palling the ri¬ver, where they could keep no order, becaufc of the ir¬regularity of the ground. King Edward himfelf efcapedwith much difficulty, being clolely purfued about fortymiles by Sir James Douglas, with a party of light horie;he was upon the point of being taken prifoner, when hewas received into the caftle of Dunbar, by the Earl ofMarch, wffio conveyed him to England by fea in a fifher’sboat; Kis immenfe army being entirely drfcomiited. TheScots only left 4000 men, while the lofs of the Koglilbamounted to above 30,000.Glasgow', Printed by J. ge M, Robertfon, Saltwarket s«S.