ANEW RIDDLE BOOK,COMPREHENDING*(Befides mat y o r s)All tke Riddles Contained in aWHETSTONE *oi DULL WJTS.To which is added thr M.. y Taits, Uc*Thereto anexed*Foi the Entertainment of Youth.FOUR wings i, have, which jiv'fly mcrtnt tn high\ Or jhirdy pinionst yet I never jVy ;And though rm bodi often move arci nd.Upon the klf-fnme ffot Jm ahenysfound-;Andy like a r,\trfe lube chcv s the infant s meatt1 chew f or man before that he can eat.A WIND MILL.DUN r ,i RPrinted for and Sold l»y G. MILLER at whofe Shop may !»claJ, a vuiety of Small Iliftorlts, Sttmor.s 3cc. CaiechiErv^.Iliads, C hi'drer.S Rooks and Pidtmrea.&H9L£ Sdi£ mud RSTAIL-( 2 )*0im(■ ■mi^i}OIOf Merry Books th * is the Chief,It is a purging Pil^To carry off ail heavy Grief,And make you laugn vour fillA COLLECTION of RIDDLES.INTO this world I came hanging,And when from the fame 1 was gangingI was cruelly batter’d and fqneez’d,And men with my blood they were pleas’d.arjiv. A Pippin pounded into Cyder.I’m white and fcdT, it is well known,Like wife my noft is red ;Young Ladies will as well as Jean,On take me to their bed.A Candle.A wide gfcuth, no cars Aor eyes,N coi^na flames l feel ;I iwatlow tr■ than may 1 officeFull loity at a meal.a/jzc’. An Oven.Though of a great age,I am kept in a cage,Haying a long tail and one car.My mouth is round.And when joys do abound,O then 1 fug wonderful clew.9ri ar/i( 3 )ifiv. A Beil in a Sieeple; the Rope betokensa Tail and the Wheel an Ear.I’m found in moft countries; vet not ineart h or jea;I am in all timber; vet no: in any* tree.I am in all metals ; yet as 1 am told,1 am notin iron, lead, ftlv^r, nor gold.1 am not in England, yet- this i can iay^I’m to i . htund in Wc'.imi niter every day.I’m not in hougl *. ; vet never out of mind, -And in ev’ry moment you me find.crijiv. The lettei fvl.1 1 through the town do take my flight,Aiid through the fields and meadows green,*., Anci ufie:her it be day o< rnghv,1 nevei was. no' can b • feen,aifw. 1 lie \\ in-..My body’s taper, fine and heat, ■11’vc butene eye., and vet com pleat| You’d judge me by my equipage,The gteateft warrior oi the: age ;1 For, tf vou do furvey me ronn.d,^ N- thing but Heel is vo be found ;I Yet man 1 ne’er was known to kill,P' n ladies blood 1 often (pill. (atif. a Needle.With words unnumber’d 1 abound;I • In me mankind do take delight;In me much learning’s to be found,Act 1 can neither read nor write.anfiv. a Book.The find and the chiefeft in riches To* f(,-eji( 4 )Although 1 in poverty always have been;An though I’m in rags, 1 am fet on a throne,For ev’/y one knows l’*ea right to the crown Janjw. The letter R.1 live in a fhirly;But "know not a letter;1 feaft on the mules,But never the better ;Can run over Englilh,O’er Latin, and Greek,But none of the languagesEver could fpeak.arfiv. a Moufe in a fludyClothed in yellow,f Red, and Green,1 prat beforeThe king and queen;Of neither houfeNor land poflefs’d,By Lords and knights1 am cards’d. (anfw. a Parrot.,1 view the world in little fpace,am always rdilefs, changing place;No food 1 eat; but, by my pow’r.Procure what millions do devour.anfw. the Sun.Though the moment I’m born, as good Latim ,1 fpeak,as a lad of long ftanding at fchool;tho’pay head piece is good, Pve four armain my back.( 5 )and in yeHow am drefs’d like a fool.J but however ili form’d, however ill-drefs’d,I Let me go where 1 will, 1 am always cares’d.anfw. a new coined Guinea.|Of mirth the parent, and the child of art,, a ftranger to myfelf in ey’ry part;■ Eaft-lndia has a native i t my bread,l the Wed my foftnefs, and my fire the Eaft,Whild kinder climes my virtues tocompleatrquicken my mildnefs, to correid my heat,i thus perfed, yet humility I (how ;i the more I am admir’d the lefs 1 grow ;, My faithful friends upon my ruin thrive,and fee me dying as they grow alive.anfrjv. a Punch-bowl.in' q,. What fortune gives, 1 wear in date ;i a. little thing does make me great;r all admire me, when 1 wear it ;1 Yet cares attend all thofe that bear it.an/w. a Crown.s1 am a joiner, yet no man,I! 1 do the work that no man can :rt a builder too, and fabricks raife,r without brick, or done, that all amaze.i» a Chymid alfb, and preparet tinchires and balfoms the mod rare.INo nation but reports my fame ;! Now, if thou knowed me, tell my name ?arjw. a Bee.1 Thegreated travellers that e’er were known,i Byfea and land, were mighty archers twainjNo armour proof, o: fenced walls of lionv,»Could twrn t'Ueirarrows: bulwarks vvere^n vain.ihro’ prirvees’courts, and kingdumsfir& near,as well in foreign parrs as Chrutcndoai,thefe tiavclkrs their weary fteps do itcer,but to the defert they do feidom come.anfzv. Death anti Cupid, whofearrowspiercethro’ the W alls of brais, or ft rung armourin all Courts and Kingdoms in the habitableWorld.a dainty fine thing,Which under her wingMy Lady does commonly wear.With a bottomlefs hole,* *as black as a coal,and cover’d all over with hair.avfw. a Muff.a maid with a bafket of eggs,She law a tiling Hand without legs;ftwas both ftifif and ftrong,and fome handfuls long.Having a brifk beard ;She was not afraid,and likewife (lie laid■She’d do it no wrong.arifzv. an Ear of Rye Corn growing onthe Land, which a maid favv\as llie wasgoing to Marker.Two calves and an apethey made an eicapeFrom caq that was vvorle than a fpright;hit right.( 7 )they travcll’d togetherin ;H forts of weather,'lit o^ren ' ere put Inanjw. a Mm (lying from his fcoldingwifehe t v.) calves and an ape fignitv. the calveshf f lie Legs and the Nape or his Neck, whycli>y travelling were expos’d to the Weather.It Hies without wingsbetween lilken firings,. and leaves, as you find,the guts flill behind. , „anfw. a Weaver,s Shuttle.It liv’d and dy’d : and after death;Ibereav’d fome hundreds of their breath;|affi{l>ed by a man of of grief,to whom it yielded fome relief.anfw. Sam Ton’s Jaw-bone of an afs, wiwhich he flew a thouftnd Men, and was rlieved himfelf by water fpringing from ffame, when he was thrifty.%To the green woodFull oh it hath gang’d.Yet yields us no good,’till decently bang’d.anfw. a Hog fattened with acorns, whmakes good bacon when hanged and dricThere was a fair maid,Who merrily laid,Her lover was ftupid and dullFie put a long thinginto a black hole.( S ,)and fatisfied her to the full.anf jj. a Pen.I fent a token to my friend,h was a pledge that had no end ;r"?but when the fame my friend did get,"My friend foon put an end to ir.anf'w. a Ring fent to an ungrateful perfonwho fold it.a thing with a thundering breech,k weighing a thoufand welly,) have heard it roarLouder chan Guy’s Wild Boar,they fay it has death in its belly.anfw. A Cannon.In pain v ;s a Squire’s daughter.Site hired a young man foon alter,tho’ it is not much,He gave her a touch,Her forrow was foon turn’d to laughter.anfw* n maid whole Knee was out of the fJoint, which being let, (he rejoiced.One mouth, one nofe, two charming ieyes, two feet, two hands, two heads likewise. ,anfiv. A young Virgin, whole NaturalHead and Maidenhead make two.Altho’ in number Pm the fmalleft,Oe’r Kings 1 reign and beat the tailed;.anf'w. the Ace of trumps.My back fide is wood.My belly’s as good,( 9 )My riKbs they are lined with leather $My note it is brafs.With two holes in my atfe.And commonly us’d in cold weather.anfw. A pair of Bellows.No teeth 1 have, and yet l bite.And when the bite is feeti,according to my flender might,there are the marks of fpleen*My beard is red and green.arJW' a Nettle.Two brothers we are.Great burthens we bear,:i: by which we are bitterly prefi:,in truth, we may fay.We are full ail the day,I but empty when we go to reft.an fzu. a pair of Shoes,*Rich yellow, and bright.Long, llender, and white,Both one in another there are;Now tell unto me,What this riddle may be.Then will I your wifdom declareanfw. A Diamond Ring on a Lady’s FinI am made of wood,Clear brafs, found and good.To keep men that they muft not cozen,lam twenty-four,And can be no more.Sometimes I’m reduc’d to a dozen.( 10 )Q%fw. A tvo-foot Rule, being; 24 Tnebes,bur when fhur, no mere than 12.There is a precious thingThat always is on wing ;When on mvTace it lies,You’ll find how fwift it flies.Anfw. A Sun-Tod, which drew the fwiftnefsof Time.A. nvtn and no man.Like a fury laid on.Sir Green was drowned in four :YY itb Sir Wh'te and Sir BlackHe f ood to the tackrill all of them he did devour.Anfw. A Taylor at dinner with a difh of‘cucumbers, ftrved up with pepper, fait andvinegar.It has many eyfes,Bnt never a nofe.When down from the flues.Wind bitterly biews ;And likewife does fallBoth hail fnow and rain.It faces them all,And fcorns to complain.Anfw. A Lcttxe Window.To ea(e men of their care,I do both rend and tearTheir mother's bowels fill :Yet though I do,There are but few✓11)Tliat/eem to take it ill.Anfw. a plough which bleaks up the bowelsof the earth for the fowing of corn.There are many teeth but ne’er a mouth,A thoufancl at the leaft;They are both eaft, weft, north, and foutb,But feldom at a feaft.Anfw. a Pair of woolen cards.My Romach they fitSometimes with a bit,They give, and I am the receiver.And what I do take,Does commonly makeMy fair face as hot as a fever.Anfw. a Box Iron ; the heater betokensthe bit.By the help of a guide,I often divideWhat once in a green forefc flood.Behold me though lHave got but one eye,When that is llopt 1 do the mod good.Ahfw. a Hatchet, with which they cleavewood ; tilt the eye is flopped with thehafe it.Cannot perform bufinefs.A mighty row of ribs 1 have,'a back that’s wondrous thin.No belly, head, nor tail 1 crave.Yet am a very ufeful thing.Anfw. a ComW.\\tC 12 )Ciofe in a cage a bird I keep,Thar fmgs both day and night,W hen other birds ate fait ailcep,.Its notes yield fweet delight.K/infra). a Clock.I’m caiivM qoitc thro’ the cityr,fccming mighrv pretty,No quarrel or wrangle I breed,My body.is taper,I fear not a rapierThe’ ftabh’d not a drop do I bleed.Anjiu. The fcahbard of a fword.I’m puncheon and thick,My belly they prickWith fharp and pointed (pears,Tho’ many a head appears,There’s neither eyes.nor ears.Anfw. a Pin cufhion full of pins, whole headshave no eyes noi ears.a vifage fair,and voice as rare,affording pleafant charms;;Which is with usMolt omniousPrefaging future harms.Arfw. a Mermaid, which betokens deflrudtionto Mariners.By fparks of fine lawnI am lu'tily drawn,But not in a chariot or coach .:1 fly, in a word.( 2 3 )More fwift than a bird,iiat does the green-foreft approach.'nf'w. an arrow diavvn in a bow by a gentleman archer.'I'My flcin is black, my blood is fweer,fMy heart refembles wood,which-there’s (omething may be eat,Tho’ no; exceeding good.ArJ\v. a Black Cherry.My ears they rin round,and reach tathe ground,10 the admiration of man :*The one part is dead,the other well fed ;inis riddle expound if you can.i'nfjj. a Horfe and cart j the wheels betoken; ears that reach to the^giound ; the horle1 is led, the cart is dead.a little informer,Cloth’d in bright armour,jyloved by men of degree,It goes fine and neat.Without legs or feet, .wow tell me what this riddle muft bewifw. a Watch, in a lilvcr caie, the handi-lhews men the hour, while the tilver be¬tokens bright armour.i My back is broad, my belly is thin,It and 1 am lent to pleafure youth;|rhere mortal man has fcldcm been,fTho’ ftrauge, it is a naked truth, jAnfw. a Paper kite, which mounts tlofty air.!Tis neither flefh nor bone.Yet it paffes 'on ;By which ts fairly fhewnThe length and breadth of man.Anfw. a Man’s fbadow, whillt he is walkiiin the fun.*» , ’ %From five feet high,.Up to the fkyIt reaches although it is round :Now try your wits,If fancy hits,This riddle }ou’il expound.Anj-w. The fight of a man’s Eye.Preferment lately was bellow’dUpon a man, thn’ mean and fmall;a thouland then about him flow’d.Yet he return’d no thanks at all;But yet their hands are ready ft ill',To help him with their kind good wilL :|Anjw.- a Man in the flocks.From whence 1 came*’tis hard to tell,But this I’m fure is known full well.That naughty boys for me do cry :For me the dunce of fchool doth hie :That with the poor 1 always (lay,and am what mifers give away.Arfji. Nothing.There’s a little ihort gentleman.SIr.•■c- •' v-'s/- ^ tssuks* Jsjsvsaias!i ’ ii( 13 )that vrcars the yellow trews,durk below his doubletFor Fickino-of his foes.oi er in -a fmging polfureWhere’er you do him fee,j-d if you offer violenc ei He’ll flap his durk in thee,p’s wifer than the fluggard,;| Or any drunken faul,ty laying up his winter’s (lore, that’s quite averfe to gall.An/w. a Bee:Two lookers, two crookers,ur hangers, four gangers,;d a flap to Icare the flies awav.Anfw. a Cow..-Men often boall of cunning fkill,pi me as often drive to kill;ijkt notwithftanding all their fplutter,jraake the famu-r oft.to mutter.Ahfvj. a Fox.1 Fly. to many foreign parts,pftefJ by,my fpreading wings;My liody holds a hundred hearts,H ay, f will tell you Rrangc r things ;'ii When 1 am not in hafte 1 rifle,id then 1 mend my pace anon ;1 ifiue fire out from my fide,e Britifh youths this riddle con.Arf-zv. a {hip;.n call’d by the name of a man^( 16 )Yet I am as little’s a moufe,When winter comes, I’m often (een,With my red target near the houfeAnfw. A Robin red breift.In fpring I look gay,Deck’d in comely array,In fummer more cloathing I wear :When colder it grows,I fling off my clothes.And in winter quite naked appear.Anfw. A Tree.At night I timely go to refl,and early with the fun appear;When mounted high I’m ai the be ft,’Tis my delight to pleafethe ear.Anfw. a Lark.What is it, which God never made,Forbade, and is grieved to »ee ;Yet has a living foul within,and laved hopes to be.Anfw. a Cuckold.A Wretch there is, whofe growing wealth,But ferves to make him poore'r ftill.and tho’ hischefts their thoufands boaft.They cannot once his belly fill.Anfw. The mifer.There was a thing a full month old.When Adam was no more.But ere that thing was five weeks old.He was years five fcore.( l7 )Anpiv. The moon.| Behold the Lilliputian throng,!Nor male,nor female, old nor young ;,;|Five inches rail, of flender lize ;iWhoVe neither mouth, nor ears, nor eyes,i Who never from each other ftray,But ftand in order night and day, >.Like fol'diers marlhall’d in array, ,a bloody enfign each both bear,Tho’ none of them were trained to war.There adions gentler pafiions move,and quench, or fa»vn the flames of love;ISoften the unrelenting fair,and loothe the Penfive ftatefman’s cate.Nimble as thought, they fkip, they dance.Yet ne’er retreat nor e’er advance.Hor order change, like the world’s frame,;ltlw?ys unalterably the fame.Tho’ aclive, and to motion free,I Yet move they never willingly:iut in their fecret caverns fleep.Time without end ; nor ilir, nor peep,jUntil fome heavenly genius comes, ^t'o raife them from their lilent tombs.|.v pow’r unfeen then up they fpring, )iiWithout the help ol leg or wing; >| hey mount, and as they mount they firjg.\anfw. a Lady playing on the Harpiicuord.Tho you feem of me fond.For my fafety provide.And, when you walk out.Take me clofe by your fide;( IS )Yet when age advances.You e.Ut me away, . ^and I to youi frowns tallan innocent prey.anfiv. a Dog.'What being’s motl defpis’d by man,and docs him ail the .good he can ;Who bore thq greafetl prince on earth,that gave to righteoufnefs new birth;V/iio does fometirnes o’er death prevail,a^od health rdtore when doctors fail.(inf'iv, an xVfs.For vigilance and courage trueI’ve no fuppenor, equals few ;Which makes me by'tlv induttrious priz’d,But by the indolent defpis’d ;B>id and alert I meet the foe,In all engagements valour (how :and if he prove too proud to yield.One falls before we quite the held.ar.fiv. a Cock.My patron is wifdom—;f wiflom you prizeIn me put your confidence, borrow my eyes,,Who into a mill (tone can lee full as far tas the belt of you all by the light of a (tar;In Ihort had tome wife ones but my penenation.It had long a go better far’d with the nation.axrw. an Owl.Hare follows feveral comical ^jefTms.Q_U E S T I O N, I.'IjF fix (hillings and a farthing (lull be paidf by a leiebt number of men, each payingIeOjiial (lure, how many (lull there neeusto difeharge the lame ?ianfwer. Seventeen, each paying tou pencerthing.!q. 2. How may a ilraw be laid upon theound, that it may not be jumped over ?pey to whom you propofe this qn.eftion,|j|l think, it caly to be done : It it (lull■ ji^ne to a wager, lay your Ilraw clofe to theILll on the ground, and they will loon fee| impoffible to be done So yielding the|ger loft, it may occafton forne laughter.t,3. if a Butcher fends his fervant tonu keu, and orders him, with t enty ,ftu!-gs, to buy twenty head ol fcnall cattle ofera! prices : that is to fay, Weathers atr (hillings a piece, Ewes at twelve pence,i.l Lambs at a groat; and to lay out all' * twenty (hillings, and to have twenty! ul, nei.her more nor lefs, how many of at mull thei e be to compleat the numberthe aforefaid money ?tnfwer. Two Weathers, nine Ewes, anda:e lambs.feimfdf, where he cannot touch it with hileft, will feem ftrange to thole who are unjacquainted with the trick ; and when thejhave tried, feme will be ready to bet; ihei'take their right band and lay it upon thjbackfide oi their left elbow, and they wii.foen be obliged to yield the wager loft.q. 5. How to make two Calves andape dance in the middle of the room beforcu-rpany.—When you propofe to do thifame will fay you have the art of conjuratioand that you are going to ait the fecond parof Dr. Fauftus : others will be curjous tfee what may be done in it and rhbetter to bring it about, will beto lay feme frnall wager, that you canperform what was promiled. Now, the wlger being laid, rife from your feat, amwhereas you prornifed to make two Calveand an ape dance, dance round the root:yourfelf; and the calves of your legs, am;the nap of your neck will dance W'ith you]which are what are mentioned.lit re follow merry Tales and comical je/lsN the reign of Queen Elizabeth, tlr  County of Lancafter was much peftere*with wi'ches, whereupon the queen fen:her judges down to try them. Tins beinjlrefolved to .try the old men and womens( )t or no they were witches.»e, among many, was a poor man,ving aNoww hoiort of wart on his (ide, doubtedtat he was a witch; therefore he detiredfs wife to let him go to the place, whichrhs about thirty miles, there to be refolved'>1 his doubt. ^is wife, beir-g a very civiljman, gave him leave. Now after longivel, coming to the court, which was then* ting, he rnftted in amon^ft them, and theyer of the court obferving it, demandedIjence, and bid him give an account to theijunt of what he had to lay. Marry, quoththey fay thefe gentlemen ran tell oneicthe- a body be a witch or no, having ain on my fide, I am afraid I am fo; I prayJ*u’d refolve me. The cryer perceiving his|ncr nee, faicl, alas ! man, thou art noitch : thou looked more like a cuckoldin a witch. Then making a leg to theJiurt, he gave them thanks, and fo return-\ home cheatfully. His wife, meetingm at the town’s end, laid Hufband, art|ou a witch or no? No, wife, they tell meook more like a cuckold. Hufband, fayley fo, we will have them taken up foritches, for unlels they were witches theyDuld not tell that you was a cuckold.A young woman being alone, a gentle-an came into her company, who, after »iendly falutation, afked how her hufbandid. She faief. He is as crofs and unkindme as ever man was t© a wife j fo that22( 22 )have but little comfort in his convet(ati(quoth he, whv do not you m; V. h |das !a cuckold ? She fmiling laid, Sir, 1 canncbut vou may.A Welchman meeting with a bonny Scbe'Jan to brag of hur wonderful adventunlarid long travels. The Scot replied, \vh,have you learned in far Countries ? t!Welchman laid, hur has learned to ftdlthree holes with one peg ? the Scotchmareplied, this is a pretty trick; how is it todoner why quoth the Welchman, put hinofe in rhy arte, and then tbere’will bethreholes fldpt with one peg.An old woman in a country village h;been fuch a wonderful cracker ot nuts all he]life-time, that at her death Ihe willed, r|a bag cf nuts might be put in her coffin tlay her head upon, which was accordingdone; and the old woman wasokenfeen a.ter her death fitting in the church-porcicracking puts. Now it happpened thatcouple of butchers had made a bargain ti _ v-. , » 3 r{leal flieep out of a palture ground aojoinmto the church-yard : It was agreed upon between them, that one fbould lit in the churchporch and watch, while the qther fetched"flieep on his back to him. It is to be notecthat the lexton was a lame man, and ufe:to be carried on a man’s back every winteifmorning to ring the five o’clock-bell. Coraing as ufual, the butcher waiting for hi'companion, thought he had been camin;i'ithC 23 )n. fhccp i ron Hs back, and fakt, Is it>s it tT ' the fellow, thinking it hadL'een the old woman cracking nuts, was hor-; b!y frightened, and thereupon he threw:ne l. me fextoa down, crying Fat or lean,ike him as he is, Mr. Deyil ; rn(j then ran.. of the church yard like a fellow diftrac-:d, leaving the poor afiighted fexton to'a.vj home upon all fours.A country man having one fon, namedi-.e. an unlncKy bov, his father one dayjps about to chafi ife him for his wickednefs;It' Jack, getting from him by the help of aght pair of heels, turned about, and criedt, you old fbeepdeaJer 1 can n -nfi you ifwill, f bs father ion u, 'ed to cad him:|iui b£‘£iid 1 will not ennu , ;ouwdl beat me*^ eomirg 'to), laid. Jack go toour ruber, a ad he wul nth beat you. Truflinn and bans; fan, quoth k.'The nei«h-6. in .;aiiing.to his father i-f, you will nota: him w he c u: s quickiy ? No, quoth1 will not. Jaci tried out aloud, Gaffer,.'ear him, ioi he-wdl fwear like any dog.t which the neighbour wem avvav la no h irfe,c. and lift Jack and hts fat he: to fio ht itu fairly.Acitizen that was more tender to himfelfan his wife, ufually in cold weatlu-r mader go to bed fir ft, and when hei iur but*-cks had ftifftcienrly warmed his pl. ee, heme and removed her out of it, and lav inhimfclf ,* ana to make hindclf metrv, cai-u%■C 24 )ltd her his wr,rining-pan. She not bein^able to endure this indignity any longer, one jnight (Sir Reverence) bcfliit the bed. Fieridded into it, and finding himfelf in a ftink-fing condition, cried out, O wife, 1 am be-fhit! No, hnfband, lays (l^e, it is only a coadropt out of the warming-pan.A young gentleman, late of the country,having more wit than money, and not pay-ling his chamber, ftudy, or commons, wa:jindebted to the hoofe; and it was thereuporordered that his chamber Ihould be feizedfHe hearing thereof, cried, I’ll remedy thatam refolved, and fo prefently went and toolthe chamber-door oft'the hinges, and locke-lit up in his cloiet. The officers c< mi figfix a padlock thereon, found then U )ve,s oijappointed ; and fearching the room fouinet any thing worth their feizure.Thus I conclude this little bookOf Riddles, Jokes, and Tales,Which may creat a chearful look.When other method fails.F I