THEO R,fa lie Oaths FumihedTO WHICH ARE AT) DK LT,M A R v/ ’ S D il E A M.AND THEG L A S G o W,' Printed by J. Sc M. ROBERTGOK, S'aknferktf,DiflreflTed Sailor on the Rf * )THE SAILOR'S f R AG SB7.fA M a failoi' sr.d horns I'' ncj in the feac took ipreat deltghf.The female Lx I did beguileAt length two mis by me with chikhl prorniskl to be true to both,And bound tnyfeif under an oath.To marrv them if t had life,• *And one of them J made ray wife.The other being left, alone,.Crying, You Rife deluding man,By me you’ve done a wicked thi«g,Which public Shaiae will on me brit g.Then to a filent tirade flic went.Her pi efent fli.riud for to proAnd foop-fhe fuik.Vd up the (friie,And cu: her Aender thread ef hfe..r’* -hrk.v • .She hung her if lx upon ;; tree,' ■'f’wo nitn a hdm'rg did. her fee ;Her tL\;Ti by beaus ivas bafely tore,Wih^ehkr.ade the young men weep full Rut" m\m they went and cut her down.And in her bread a note was found ;ibis note was wrutca out at large,Bury me not, I do your charge: JBut on'Caz grousid here let sac l;';For every one that palfer by,I That they by me a warning take,; *•* ad iee what tcilows e'er too Late.! As he is foUe, I do proteft,That he on earth- fkail get no re it |! And it is laid, the plagu'd him fo,' Ihat to Cite fees he's iorc’d to go.As he was on the maui-maft High,A little boat he did efny,In it there was a.Ghoh Ip griift,.That made him tremble every J:mb.Down to tke dcok the young man goes*To the Gay ain his mind to difclofe fHere is a Spirit coming hence,1O Captain hand in my defence.Upon the deck the Captain goes.Where focn he fpy'd the fatal Ghoft ; .*Captain, faid fae. Von mud and can,Wuh Speed htlp me .ro fuch a man.In St. Helens this*young man died.And in St. Helens is his body laid : . ! 'Captain, faid (he. Do not fay fo.For he is in your (hip below'.And if you (land in his defence,A migluy dorm l will (end hence, *Will came yon and your men to weep,And Ware > ou (leeping in the deep.-.PHFrom trie tJcck •ltd the Capttyn ^o,And brought this young man to his foe :On him fhe fix'd her eyes Xo grim,Which made him tremble every limb.It was we!! known 1 was a mdd,When firfi bv vou I wa? betray’d,} am a fpirit coate far you.You beguil'd me once but I have you now.For to preferve both (kip and men,Into the boat they forced him ;The boat funlgin a fiafh of fire,'Which made the fail or s all adn'.ire.AH you that know what to love belong,NoW you have heard my fnomnful fongBe true 'o one whatever you mitfd,And don’t delude poor woman-kind«n«rt ';.?*»■</i*MARY’S D R E A M.THE morn clintb’d the highrft hi?hwhich rifes o’er the fource ot Dee,And from the eaflenr fanvmit Ihed, 4liev fidver light on tow'r and tree ;When Mary laid her down to fieep,her thoughts on dandy far at fea,When foft and low a voice War li?ardtfitys, ‘ Mary weep no more for me!''fihe frpin her nhlow. gctltly rais’dher head, to alk who there might b v?She fjw young Sandy fhivering ftand,with -.did •cheek, and hollow eye j-c O Mary dear, cold is my day,‘ it lies beneath *. floraiy lea,* Far, far f^rom thee, 1 fieep in death,* fo Mary, weep no more for me.1 ‘ Three ftornsy nights and ftortny day*;,* we tofdd upon the raging mail):1 ‘ And long we drove our bark to lave,* but all our driving was in vair.:1 * Even then, when horror chi I'd fay blood,‘ my heart wa? fill’d with love to tdet:1 ‘ The ftorrn is pally and l at‘ fo Mary, mourn no more for me,1 * 0 maiden dear, thyfeff prepare>c we foon fliall meet upon that fisore,* Where, love is free from doubt and care,* and thou and l lhall part no more/K I,oud erod’d the cock, the fhedowJicJ,no more of Sandy could fh- fee,But loft the pa/ttng Spirit faid,‘ fweet Mary, weep np more for m-2 ’ ■The diflrefied Sailor cn the Rocks ot ocilly,CO M £ ail you jolly failors boldjthat plow the raging main,« And liften to my tragedy,wh'.lll 1 relate the fame.i I parted from my wedtted wife,i vhor,) I did ftill adore,To the fees w:e were commanded,• vh re tha lohy billows roar._ . ( 5 >Tc tUe rr-ll indies ^were bauryd^. our cou'Xe we then did freer;And all alot.g i frill thought onmy charming Molly dear.Sometimes on deck, fomciiffles aloft;,fomeUines l am below.But-Molly (he’s frili in my eye,fond love commands me fp.She’s charming, beautiful, and lair,lioc’s all mwfpul’s delight;-The brighteft dxj appears to me,like to the fhade ot night.By myfelf alone, 1 fvgh and moan,while others fport and play ;Were Molly (he along with me,it would be always day.My very heart’s lodg’d in her breafr,which does iccreafe my pain ;Both night and day 1 do think frill,we ne’er fnall meet againWhen we our loading bad receiv’d;and were from England bound.We little thought it was our fate,on Sciliy rocks to drown.On the recks of Scilly we were caft,by the tempt A o? the rutin, -Of all cur good Ihip’s jfUy crew,but fu n- could reach tht? land.We-lvad not faird a day but ieven,when the ftyrm began to r fr,■ Tbfe fweHir.g fcas ran mhuntah.a high,and difntal were the fines.Aloft, aloft, mir boatfwain cries,cadi man h;s poll observe.And reef your fails both fore and aft,our Ihip and lives to fave.To the top then cites pur Captain bold,and he that firft fees land; *For his revard.be jhall receive,the fum of fifty pound. - •To the top then went our hoatfwain’s tnateu> 'he umn-top fb high, . ..He looked round on cvVy fide, :but no land he could lr*y.In head of us a light he faw, *.v.lriph did his fpirits cheer,Take courage hearts of gold, he cries,foxno harbour we are near.About your ih: * .-j boatfwain crk’S,and pi the roc-ts keep clear,I4or in the deep we will itutain,until the dav appear.Sail on, fail on, cur Cspjtrdn cries,we're right before the wmd,For by tne light that we have fetn,we are not far from land.( 3 1Bur as we failM be/ore the wind, <« tr.d thought all danger pad,On the rocks of >cil!y, we pocr fctsls,that fatal night were calUThe fud (Iroke that our /hip did get*our Captain he did cry.The Lord have mercy on our lords,. for in the deep we die.Of eighty gallant fariors hold,bur four could reach the /here;Our Cup in pieces fplir,and rever was feen more.'But when the news to Plymouth came,our gallant (hip was lollThis caufed many faiiors fear,the danger of that coall.Now Moll* dear (he rnay lamentfor the lc,l< of her f.ver;heart.By the temped of that frorrny wind,the deep their love did partiWhen Molly heard the .f a! news,her tender heart did break, %i\nd like a faithful Jof-;r /he,died for her lover's Ihke.G L A S G O V?,Printed byJ.&M. ROBEkToON,Sa’ttnarket, iSoi'