«•Ftr, sT-and Second P APiTof thn NEWP R O V E'R MS' Oa the Pride of W OMEN:O R, T H E 1Vanity of this World DifplayecLFTo which is added,'An excellent Uecetpt to all young Men wh*> want » '•Wife, how to wale her by the Mouth ; baiide? yo'i, have an account of *he Girls that wear the >'vf Heads and the Hign-crown’d caps, piled onHeads like a bec-fcap, or a Quoil of Hay,l with ail their K.igg:.ng and Fuantur?POINTED IN THmi♦'3■■■i'kr/ Proverbs on the Prid<of Women,. &c-AMmCHAP. !.■Woman who has haughty looks, is under t4a!iinfection of the plague, even pride; Hie is ignorant of herfelf, and thinks as much as ihe is he;own maker, always defpifing her fellow creaturesas if ihe was not of the feed of Adam.2. Her eyes bent always upwards, towards thfhies, and in my opinion, fuch women come fro^ he world of the moon, becaufe they look backwartowards their native country.3. And (he who is parton full of pride, is empty oue ; .but O how wife in her own eyes is the; elnt in fpeecb, expert in law without expetience.4. He that joins with fuch a woman, binds hirofel■e .s galley ilave alPthe days of his life; he mu(ainft wind and waveisj^fw her to the g.w w*""* —noe'sme! for many women are weig+ued down,ily, lifted up with vanity, deeply wounded;:fo in love with themfelves, their hearts pint*with hatred and forrow becaufe their height,are exalted above them.This is a fore evil which cleaveth to the daughters of Eve, handed down from mother to daughtej-iom one generation to another.7, No fooner have they got judgement to difeenibetween the right hand and the left, but they ar'carried away to be taught by Madam Vanity, thdaughter of'Lucifer, who brings them >nto the coKlege of Contradiction, which (lands m trie town oflContention. . „ . r. -<r8. Here they are catechifed in ah the ertn of bu <inrs; fuch as painting of the face, and plaiting ot thkai’r ah^H^ihefe high crowned caps and o:thead-dietheir heads like a bce-fcap1SIT -  ; ■ w —New Proverbs on the Pride of Women, Sec.or a quoi! of hay, and even kiiting their petticoatto the rump.9. Come all ye dumb brutes, cats, dogs, and othercreatures, and behold a foolilh people, walking onearth, rs if they were not of the earth, decking theirbodies with brats, and their bellies with beef| and yecyou in rough fleins feem as comely in your kinds, andmore obedient to your Maker and matter than they.io- Come, come ye lilies of the fi-.H, artd ;ftfes ofthe garden, and behold how queens, prineefies, andcouiitefles, are counterfeited by poor clipfarts of va-nityr> going to church with the ribs of unrighteouf^nefs round their rumple ; with a difplayexi bannshlof painted hyprocrify in their right hand, to guardtheir faces from the fun. O but the lilies out (binethe lattes for beauty; the rofes rejoice and affrontthem, while they like howlets hide their face fromthe beams of the futi, as if their faces were hih, anatheir hides hinds tongues; they abhor the brigatbeams thereof as a cat. does muffard. , - /1 i. Many of thefe women are more da.«.0 " Jlthan the mouth of devouring caiinons ; thoegh tiuckappear ?.s angels in the churcn, they are as t-rpefche ftieets, and as Beelzebub above the blankets,the man that marries fuch a woman, he hadbetter be wedded to his ftaff, and go to bed with thebeetle in his bofom.ffxfW CHAP. II.HE who gets a fcolding wife, and a mortifyinggoodmother, had far better been buried alive,. .for the one will cry him deaf, atfd the other willwatte his money and his meat, fill his belly withwind, and his heart with forrow, till w. h hungerand-anger he will die a double death every u.sy.2. He that marries a gentle wife without a weigh¬ty purfe of gold, or a good portion, binds himfelf ‘to be his lady’s page, his own fervant, captain (gout’scoachman, gnd Mr. Poverty’s psftffiaA,..Silt ihs daysof his ,ife. ‘ Mmu*.■■■hk1~'W Proverbs on the Pride of Women;* ■ The care of fuch 'a wife is to ciothe her an-tipli’j, it her hufband fhouldgo naked, (he labour..eth with her tongue, not with her hands, deferibing(he genealogy of her forefathers, the -gvmknefs ci'her blood, and of her hufband’s- defeent, who nevertame to honour and poverty tilThe came to her.,4* He that weds for money is a ml&r, and, he for 'beauty a fool* but he that for virtue and the other twoi; wifei than the weaver who took a wife and wouldiiave nothing, becaufe he had nothing of his own. 5. And the reafen was, becaufe his wife mightfay, l have made thee rich with my tocher, when. thou had nought but thy t — 1,9. He that marries a widow for her pelf, had bet-ts? marry a whore, if foe be hand fame and whole-jorm:, for the widow will be upbraidfngfoim wiih the■jt’’ealth and pleafure foe had with her former huf-baod, who was always, the beft, becairfe he was gone.7. Woerees the whore will be aihamed to (peak• of her former pleaftntes,. rscaufe they w'ere flolen,■«l-;rifuarwl udlawfol; but rather foe wifi rejoice,.and cfofoin thee, when (he enjoys the famesyt fear, fcatidal, Oiarne, or reproach,h. He that marries a widow, let it be with onewoo had a hufband, that g?.ve her blows onf de rc-akfaft, who was hanged for knocking©tt^jSr-'bralus of his mother, and playing the whorevrhanother woman ; that.foe may have 10 fay foe •hit cl got the beft hufoand to h'er laft, and if thou bencr ii,, thou art a poor wretch, TH warrant you.P.111.O H AT i? timfl: natural for every fex to have a deb retowards its follows., and without the company ofeach other they have r,o rnuttiaf ha'ppinefs.P‘,. Is, it not reafonable for thp’c, O man 1 wao t«Ijfo reiplved to join thyfelf to a whe; that thou join t yhe life together, firfl bv a mathematical order;, tiecumfoUing thereof, cover iOr, the Vanity of this lYcrld Uijplay:3. Go to the birds and be not blindfolded, w bbuild their neft, lay their eggs' before they hatchtheir young, be not fo fooltih, as to have a child be- ffore you have a wife, nor a wife before you have a >houft to hold her in. f4 Stuff thy houfe with all manrfer of furniture ne-ceffary for jths family, marry thy wife in the pudding- ‘month, and thou thalt have warmnefs all the winter.-]*5. Beware of 'running too fait, led you come to v/all, for the fair fex have iiiort heels, and often fail l.”backwards when bearing of the voice of wedlock, ,_fwcOning away, for the jdy of a relief long looked u’for; behold them not when they turn up their ten §toes, left thou fall into the trap from v/hene'e there is ,no returning ; without committing great wickednefj.^ti6. But when thou goeft to meet a woman, wale other by the meuth, as Mungo did his mare ; for Oy ISher words you may know whether fhe te a wife wo- P*’man or a fool. -7. If (he be poor, p-^d. and pridefuL ftvgback of your hand to her, and voim TifcS;;for fhe is the worft penny-worrh ever camepoor man’s pack-fheet, yea, happy is ’.e th-.r g '*home with the loom halter in his hand without her.\8. But if you chance to admire the charms of otwho is black 2nd lovely, decent and difereet, hdneffcand virtuous-, thcr‘ never fe pour; cleave thou onher by all means, for luch a woman will hold youus her head and huftand, then thou (haft- reigu as aarifking over thine own houfe, and all thy femiljr (hail b«^utlubject unto thee.I,and9. for it you marry on's who thmks hevfe’f wife: jthan thee, (he will ufurp thy authority, count;;rrnan»<'l,r*!thy orders, and hold thee rnore'lik; ’ * . “*»*■1W man orfnyafter.than' ’i fner tnon  ie Keep not private company with a woman rba**8’is a great finger, nor a girl who .is game-Ik e, fdP!?S-the rolling of the eye and the fweetnsfa of•encouraee men to commit v/mkednefs.lb lake not a y/ife that i,New Proverbs on the Pride of Women: .^gon.monly are tail ready, loon angry, toon pleafed*t eaftiy pfrfuaded to do any thing; if a temptation af-<t f^iyt 5 cr, flic will be eafi’y overcome, even to horni*1 ^7 your he;ui: for fuch are Hve-Joofe’s children.H , ; 2, Neither do ye encounter with one who hath4 a big.belly, end a befom full of paps, for fuch arefeldoih wholeforne; nor one who is too tail, for fpehp long people when they fall are too heavy to rife, buti?' the bell way under the fun is to marry, and fo con-li tinue, look back to dorty maidens and give tlftrn thefcornful cataloguers follows: t13. O ve haughty maids, mock my proverbs and- I’ll mock your pride, figh for a man when it is toolate, and fend for him when he will not come, yourtc fonjr in youth fs, Pm o'er youn* to marry yet', un¬it# til the wrinkles rife in your face like the back of a,v, ram-horn, and bajy but one tooth bound in with a}v, rag, then make a chahtfr of your thumbs, and droaes{;r long ringers, and play,ivfl my .time and my lover too.t And here I ftrall be filer,t for a fhort time,Ir hen l fiiall vex Vanity once more let one fay I ama rattle-ikull, another, he is jumbled in jsis judgement":%t dtilurbed in his ftudies, fo I make an end, leilthey1 fay, I aid become a preacher, and every trade is en-cre-achi-rg' upon another; now be that wonders atw rny tollyf 1 will wonder at his ^ifdom, thfn we are“even ode wtU» anotocr.'■C; v.>'■r A R T II.VfOME, O men and minifters, and beheld mad-_>mett and (odift women, running into the bonds.:**£ w< died;, as the horfc doth unto the battle.e-', No; no, no hchling back, b^t John Siothe andkla'u; ; Idle muft be married, even becaufe they have^W.K-'-'^hs but meannefs, no teacher but 1—Is, no witKcI|,wick*d!V^ > no wealth but wanton folly; and poorpoiic&C’U, antiquity only excepted.L:,-l   3. For he is the honourable laird of Sluj'ga'-d-fifoj?» and (he is the Daughter of Slipmy-labour.4. Behold he goetbwith his garters unbound, hisb^- 'fom bare, and bot^-hishands holding up,his breeches.5. Up gets Maggy in the morning agai.n.i the hourof nine, whether it be day-light or not,.but not with-. out the pow« of a pearler, for (he covers herfelfwith her petticoat, and runs to the dung-hill as afoldier to his arms', when alarmed by the drum.6. This is the chara£lerof two, which may be mul¬tiplied into millions, two by two, that fall into mi-fery by matrimony, and are deadly wounded by theplague of poverty, for want of a virtuous proceedingin themfelves. - I7. Their great care is, once to be firmly rtian ied,and then all their cares are drowned in the fieep of ;lull, and‘when they awake, the flame of calf-love isquite out; then they look up, when their eyes are o* ,pondd, and feeing th|p fnocked with worldly cares,almoft naked and next to nothing.8. Now they rnuft work or want, their belly wa- fges war againft them, their backs and beds ’cloathed; their chiidix-n alfo come upon tben‘^' thH;k^thick, if not threefold.9. Then fays the hufband, What have I d-'n:d> fwork hard all the day to myfelf, and get r>o wage?,my belly is never filled with bread, but, O my hearfis almoft like to break with forrow !10. O had I been.flill the fervan.t of another man,then had I go1, my daily bread and yearly wa /cs, butnow I have lott good bread and great pleafure, andO but her beef a”weighty burden unto mo.11. Let never a man wale ills wife at the itk-cloor^pick up a painted image in the market; as I huedone to my deadly danger. ,12. Her fjne bulks are turned into miferable brail..inftead of paintings on her face,',a flough of dune,which is a fign of a fapiefs carcafe, occaGoned b]the fcarcity of fcones, and a fcaptiaefs of pottager.'I13. O miferable madhefs, ani wicked alter .;>J■HHHPP rbTftrt’f wm'J Women., Src.caiiorsK^ through foud l6va, and forward kuidnefs*14. What can be worfe in a houfe, than a hornedgood-wife, and a-hummtl goad-man, a finged cat, andburnt dog, having nothing elfe but difpeace and aportion, which is perfeil poverty.\ 5. Here-the goodawife’s tongue is a Jaw, and thetongs the fqeptreof herfupreiHacy, the children honourthe father, as a cur doth a cow from a kail-yard. Thewife with t$whifpertng voice calls him cuckold, and| fill our children may fay amen, our mother’s a whore.i6. And this is the fsveeteft of all muflc in the earsV-of Old Nick; when the’good wife’s paffioa. like a flamebreaks out againft her hufbaud, and he with viciousi Vtovvs anddmpious rage* gives her a double downcome: which is cornmo*"^’ called next to murder, if not fo.% 1 7« Noware tli" flames of ilefhljr love quenched,j and their charity towards each other, become as coldi as c’ay; their former love is fmothered to death in the« fmoke of thei'r hellifli wrath, and pride is fallen into.f' thc bottomlefs pit, the place from whence it came.AT!) ,V £R T IS E M ENX» Oysz, Oytz, tycz.E it known to gll poor, proud, and prk'efui p^o-jy-p.’s,' that they may mourn till the furrow nte.nlthem*, for deacon Pride, the Devil’s dominie, who-V is falien from the top of the high tower of Vanity,ra„.j|o the deep ditch of bifgrsce; nis clothing being of.?< ‘ r buficr, has licked up all the motes of mifery and^dtfd.via on the one fide, and drfgrace on the other;fivtmc and rcyoa " before him, and behind hfcn a/trotat his'buttocks bpsaufe they.bvvre bar-- HAnd it is honed ne, and rmny others, that heTotb never have cc- dence to fet up his daft-likeface among honeft wen-thinking people any more?dn this country; fo we of the J inclarian Se£t vvi.lpofe his doctrine, and fend the Dominie to beor.F I N I S.