*Three F-xcellentOld Songs,CALLED,King James the Firft,and the Tinker.King William and hisForrefter.ANDThe Shepherd Lad.FALKIRK: Printed Sy T. Jou;>STO».TV ( a h T \AMES THE FIRST, ANDTHE TINKER.And now to be brief, let’s pafs o’er the reft,"Who i'eldom or never was given to jeft,And come toKingJames t!ie firlt on the throne,A pkai'auter monach lure never was known.Once be was a chafmg hi* fair Callow deer,He dropp’d all h’’i Nobles, of them he got clear,In fearch cf new pleafures away he did ride.Till hecatne to an ale honlt juft by a Vood-iide,And there with a Tinker he happen’d to meet,Who in this kind, manner dicUovingly greet.He laid. Hdneft feUow, what i* that in thejngg.Which under ih v arm thou doit lovingly hugg ?S\* s «... * ^ •In truth, fays the Tink er, his nappy brown ale,Ar i h r to drink to Uie«,. iar.raih.ril not fail;1* or tho' that thy jacket is glorious and fine,I hi oe that my twopence is as good as thinf.Nay, row, by my foul,'the tiuth.fliall be fpoke,Then draight he fat d p.vn with the Tinkerto joke.He call’d for a pi dier, the Tinker another.And lb to it they went like brother dc brother.While drinking, the King was pleafed to fay,"YV-aai news doit in- u hear, hondl linker,I pans ?KING J■jp C 3 Sr( 3 )There’s nothing of nev/s the which I do hear,But the King is a chafing his fair fallow deer.And truly I with. I fo happy might be,That while he is hunting, the King I might fee;'Altho’ I have traveled the land many'ways,I never did fee the King all my whole days.The King in a hearty brifle laughter replyM,I tell thee good fellow, if thou can’ll but vide.Thou limit get up behind me Sc thee I will brirgInto the royal prefence of James our King.Perhaps,quoth thcTinkerTtslordiwillbedreftSo fine, that I cannot tell him from the reft.They will, but l tell you, when once you comethere,The King will be cover’d, his nobles all bare.Then up got the tinker, and hoilled the blackBudget of leather, and tools cn his back ? • •And when they came to the merry green wood,His nobles came round him.Stbare-headedHood.The Tinkar then feeing fo many appear,Immediately Whifpcr’d the King in the ear,Say ing.Since they’re all cloth’d lb gallan t&gayjSir, which is the King, now tell me I pray?Tiie King to the Tinker then made this reply.By my foul, man, it mull be either you or 1;The reft are bare-headed, & uncover'd around.Thjs faid, with his budget he fell to the ground,Like one that was frightedquiteoutof his wits.And then on his knee* he immediately get**( 4 )IkCeechinghis mercy.—The King to h'unfai j,Thou art a good fellow, fo be not afraid.Now tell me thy name—It is John of the Vale,A mender of kettles, and a lover of ale.Then rife up Sir John, Til honour you here,i'll make you aKnightof three hundred a year.This was a good thing for the Tinker indeed.Then foon to the Court he was fent for withfpeed,'Where fvore of great pieafure and paftimewere feen,I ftp the royal prefence of our King & Queen.cxxxxx.-txxxxxxxxH'-f-xxxxxxxxxaxx.':*KING WILLIAM & Hi* FORRESTER.* ou fubje£U of Britain come liden a while,Here is a new ditty will make you to fmile,It is of the King and the Keeper alfo, >Who met in the foreft but lately ago.O early, O early, into a morning.King William rofe early in a morning;And a gown of grey ruflet King William put on,A* tho' he had been but a filly poor man.The hound* were made ready, prepar’d forthe game,The Nobles attending. «f honour and fame;But, like a mean fubjeft, in h*ml»le array,He to his own foreft wa* taking hi* way.r( 5 )O th:n befpolce Marj’, our royal Queen,My gracious King VViUiatn where are yougoing?He anfwer’d her quicklvi I count him no manThat tellfeth hit counfel unto a woman.The Queen. ■■ ith a modefi behaviour, reply'd,I wifh Kind Providence may be thy guide, 4Andkeeptheefromdanger. my fovereign Lord,The which will the greateh of comfort afford.He went to the forefl fome p’eafure to fpy,The grey-hound run {\vift,and the keeper dre wnigh,Who cry’d, You b Id fellow, how dare youcore; here,Without theKing’* leave, to chace his fair deer?H ere are my three hounds I’ll give them to youAnd likewife my hawks, they're a* good ase'er fle .Befides I will give thee full forty (hillings,If you’ll not betray me to William our king.All that I have offer’d, I pray thee now take,And do thy endeavour my peace for to make;Befides forty (hillings. I’ll give thee a ring.If you’ll not betray me to William our king.Your three hounds,I tell you,I never will take,Nor yet your three hawks, your peace forto make ; (j. 1Nor willlbe brib’d with your money and ring.But i will difclofe you to William cur king.As I’m i true keeper. I'll nof be i.rjefk.Nor, for a 'gold ring, wail I forfeit rr.y trult;I'l! bring vou before him as fure as a gun.And tht>rfc you Pnall anfwer for what you navedone.Thmi art a bob! fellow. King WiHianrrep!y*d,Why, dolt thou not fee the liar at my fide ;The foreft is mine, I let thee to know,Then what is the reafon you threaten me fo ?With that the bold keeper fell down on rhis knees,A trembling fear his fpirits did feize ;The pi flare of death did appear in his face,He knew not at firll the kirg was in place.O pardon i O pardon! my lovereign liege,For your ro\al pardon I humbly be leech,Alar! my nom' heart in my brean it is cold!O let me not fuffer for being fo bold,(fears.Get up, honeft Keeper, and {hake off thyIn thee there isunothing of folly appears :O that ev’ry one were as faithful as thee,"What a bleft prirce King William would be !Becaufe I encourage fuch pevfons as you.I’ll make you my ranger, and if that w on’t do,I’ll make thee a captain, by fea or by land ;And high in my favour you ever {hail {land.The Keeper replied. My fovereign Lord,Sure 1 am not worthy of fuch a reward ;C 7 )Yet nevertheless ycur true Keeper I'll-be,’Ciufe I . as ne’er bred to the anfly nor lea.With that the King laugh’d, till hi* kdes bedid hold,Andthrewhimdotvn iif'tybright guineas ofgoldAnd bid him hade to the Ketifuigton-Court,Where ot' this true jell he would make fome1'port.And when you .come thare, fee you alk for' l°ng Jack, •Who wear* a pageant of gold at his back.And a great fazmof gold at his right fleeve.For he’s a true man, vou mav him believe.He’s one of my porters, that hand* at my gate.To let in my Nobles, both early and late ;And therefore good fellow, come up v. ithoutfear.I’ll make thee my ranger of parks far and near.¥ vc j\. -v .a.THE SHEPHERD LAD.As I gied do.vn the water-fide,'rhere I met vny Ihepiterd lad.He row'd me fweetly in his plaid.And he ca'd me his dearie O.CHORUS.Caw the cats to the kr.owes.Caw them where the heather growg,Caw them v. here the bunds ro,vs;Aiy benny dearie C.3i( 8 )Wfll ye gang down the water'-fide,And fee the waves fae Tweetlv g'ide.Beneath the hazel fpreading wide.The fun it ihines fu1 clearly Caw, See.I vre* bred up at nae lie fchool,My fliephtrd lad to play the fool, -And a‘ the day to lit in dool,And nae body to fee me Caw the, &c.Ye fall get gO'-'-n* and ribbons meet,Ca‘f-leather Ihcon upon your feet.And in my arms ye-le He and Ueep,And ye fall be my dearie O.—Caw, See,If ye‘Il but Hand to what ye‘ve faid,I fe gang wi‘ you my (hepberd lad,And you may to-v me in yojtr plaid.And I lail be your dearie O. — Ca>v,8tc.While water wimpdei to the fea,While day blinks in the lift lae high,Till clay-cauid d^ath fall blin‘ my ele.Ye lali be my dearie O.— Caw the, &c.‘FINIS,Jobtition, 1816,J