I C H E A P TRACTS,Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. III.THElave-Trade:BEING, A DISPLAY OFSOME OF THEShocking Confequences,OF THATInhuman Traffic:DESCRIBEDxn Account of a Voyage to Africa to trade for! Slaves.^ reatment of Negro-Slaves before they reach theWest Indies. And,A.n Account of the manner which Slaves are fold iuthe Plantations.DUNBAR1 Wonted Yj G, Miller :—at svhofe Shop may be bad a variety• t'swpbiett, BaUads, Children’s Books, Piftures. Catediifos, fcepwholesale and retail.THESLAVE TRADE.A think how defolate his fta.te9How he the chearful light mujl hate •Whom fever’d from his nativefoil,‘The morning wakes to fruitlefs toil sTo labours hope Jhall never cheer,Or fond domejltcjoy endearPoor wretch o er whofc defpairing eyes.His cherijh’d home fhall never ri/e /CondcrKn>d, fevere extreme, to liveWhen all is fled that life can give /But ah ! the htejfngs valued mofiBy human minds, are blffings lojl !Unlike the objects of the eyeyEnlarging as we bring them nigh ;Our joys at diflance Jlrike the brecfl.And fcsm diminifod when poffefi.Helen Maria Williams,An Account of a Voyage to Africa, toilTrade for Slaves.Proceeding! during the Voyage.ON- the arrival of the (hips at Bonnyt ,and New Calabar, they unbend thd:fails, ftrike the yards and topma0.s, andC 3 )ribuikl wliat they denominate a houfe. Thisi 13 effecled in the following manner. TheI faiiors firft ladi the booms and yards from| mail to maft, in order to form a ridge-pole.1 About ten feet above the deck, feveratI fpars, equal in length to the ridge-pole, aren next lafhed to the Handing rigging, andi form a wall plate.. Acrofs the ridge-poleI and wall-plate, feveral other fpars or rattersli are afterwards laid and lafhed, at the dif-iltance of about fix inches from each other.J On thefe, other rafters or fpars are laidIII length-wise, equal in extent to the ridge-ij| pole, fo as to form a kind of lattice, with, i interfliccs of fix inches fquare. Tiie roofi! is covered with mats, made of rufhes, fatten-lied with rope-varn, and fo placed as to lap| over each ocher like tiles. The fpace be-|tween the de$k and the wall-plate, is like-II wife enclsfed with a lattice formed of flicks,;l lalhed acrofs each other, and leaving va¬cancies of about four inches fquare. NearI the main-matt, a partition is conftru&ed ofijinch dea,) boards, wnich reaches athwart thefiiip. This divilion is called a barricade.It is about eight feet in height, and is madeIto projed near two feet over the iides of theIhip. In this barricado there is a door, atwhich a centinel is placed during the timethe negroes are permitted to come upon:ffldeck. it ferves to keep tjie different fexesapart; and as there are fmaii holes m it( 4 )wherein blunderbufies are fixed, and fome-times a cannon, it is found convenient torquelling in furred, ions. Another door ismade in the lattice, at the ladder, by whichj'ou enter the fhip. This door is guardedby a centinel during the day, and is lockedat night. At the head of the thip there isa third door, for the ufe of the tailors, whichis iecured in the fame manner as that at thegangway. There is alfo in the roof a largetrap-door, through which the goods intend¬ed for barter, the water casks, &c. arc hoift-ed cut or in.Tltie design of this houfe is to fecure thofcon board from the heat of the fun, the wdndand rain ; ft anfwers thefe pifrpoles how¬ever but veiy inefi'edually. The slighttexture of the mats admits both the windand the rain, whenever it happens to beviolent^ though at the lame time, it increa-fes the heat of the flop to a very perniciousdegree; efpeciaUy between decks. Theinereafed warmth occasioned by^his means,together with the Imoke produced from thegreen mangrove (the ufual firewood),which,for want ol a current of air to carry it off',colleds itself in large quantities, and infefisevery part of the ship, render a vcfiel duringits ftay here very unhealthy. The imokcalso, by its acrimonious quality, often pro¬duces inflammations in the eyes, which ter¬minates fomctimes in the lofs of fight.( 5 )Another purpofe for which thcfe tempor¬ary houles are erefted, is, to prevent thepurchased negroes from leaping overboard,which the hon ors of their litutuion frequent¬ly impel them to attempt; ani they now &then effect it, notwkhftanding all the pre¬cautions that are taken, by forcing theirway through the lattice workThe flave Ships generally lie near a milebelow the town, in Bonny river, in feven oreight fathom water. Sometimes fifteen fail,Englifh and French, but chiefly the former,meet here together. Soon after they ca(tanchor, the captains go on Chore, to makeknown their arrival, and to enquire into the1'tate of the trade. They iikewtle invite thekings of Bolfcriy tojeome on board, to whom*previous to breaking bulk, they ufuallymake prefents (termed dafiies'' confidingcloth, cotton, chintz, filk handkerchiefs &:other India goods, and tome limes of brandy\yine, or beer.Banny, a few years ago, was the refidencsof two kings, named Norfolk and Peppel.The houies of Uide princes were not dilting-uifhed from the cottages or huts of whichthe town conltfts, in any other manner thanby being of iomewhat larger dimenfions, &furrounded with warehoufes containingropean goods, defigned for the purchase offlaves. Thele Haves, which the kings pro¬cure in the fame manner as the black tra-( 6 )ders do theirs, are fold by them to the {hips.And for every negroe fold there by thetraders, the kings reoeive a dirty, which a-mounts to a confidcrable firm in the coiufeof a year. This duty is colledted by offeers,ftationed on board the fhips, wlio are termedofficer boys.The kings of Bonny are abfelute, thoughele&ive. They are affifted in the govern¬ment by a fmall number of perions of a cei-tain rank, who are ftyled parliament gentle¬men ; an office which rhey generally hold forlife. Every fhip on its arrival, is expededto fend a piefent to thefe gentlemen, ofbread and bee,f, and to treat them as ofrenas they come on board. When they do thistheir approach to the fhip is announced byblowing through a hollow elephant's tooth,which produces a found refembling that ofa poll-horn.After the kings have been on board, andhave received the ufual prelents, permif-fion is granted by them for trafficking withany of the black traders. When the royalguefls return from the (hips, they arc falutedby the guns.From the time of the arrival of the fhtpsto their departure, which is ufually nearthree months, (carce a day pafles withoutfbme negroes oeing purchafed, and carriedon board ; fomttimes in fmall, and fonu*-times in larger numbers The wholenumber taken on board, depends in a( 7 ): great meafure, on circnnifiances In avoyage 1 once made, our ftcck of merchan-« dize was exhaufled in the purchafe of about380 negroes, which was expected to haveprocured 500. The number of Englifh kI French Hups then at Bonny, had fo far rai-I fed the price of negroes, as tooccafion thisI difTerence.The reverfe was known during the late1 war. When I was laft at Bonny, I frequent-| ly made enquiries on this head, of one;of the black, traders, whofe intelligenceI believe I can depend upon. He informed(!) me that only one Ihip had been there forI three years during that period; and thatII was the Mofeley-Hill, captain Ewing, from..Liverpool, who made an extraordinary pur-I;chafe, as he found negroes remarkablyi:cheap from the dnlnefs of trade. Uponis: enquiring into the confequence of this de-ii|cay of trade, hcfhrugged upon his fhouldcrs.and anfwered, ‘‘only making us traders^poorer, and obliging us to work for ourrirhaintenance.” One of thefe black merchantsilbeing informed, that a particular fet of peo¬ple, called Quakers, were for abolifhing thetr-rade, he faid, “ it was a very bad thing:las they fhould then fee reduced to the famei;ftate they were in during the war, when,through poverty, they were obliged to dig!(! iihr ground and plant yams.”( 8 )I was once upon the coaft of Angola alio,when there had not been a flave-lhip at theriver Ambris for five years previous to ourarrival, ahho* a place to which many ufuailyrefort every year; and the failure of thetrade for that period, as far as we couldlearn, had not any other effect than to re-ftore peace and confidence among the na¬tives ; which upon the arrival of any (hips,is immediately deftroyed, by the induce¬ment then held forth in the purcha'e ofilaves. And during the fufpenfion of tradeat Bonny, as above mentioned, none of thedreadful proceedings which are lo confident¬ly afferted to be the natural confequence ofir, were known. The reduction of the priceof negroes, and the poverty of the blacktraders, appear to have been the only badeffe&s of the difconinuance of trade, thegood ones were, moft probably, the reftora- jtion of peace and confi fence among the na¬tives, and a fufpenfion of kidnapping.When the fhips have difpofed of all theirmerchandize in the purchafe of negroes, andhave laid in their ftock of wood, water, andyams, they prepare for failing, by gettingup the yards and top-mafts, reeving the run¬ning rigging, bending the fails, and bytaking down the temporary houfe. Theythen drop down the river, to wait for a fa¬vourable opportunity to pafs over the bar,which is formed by a number of fand-bankslying acrofs the mouth of the river, with'C 9 )mvigable channels between then*. It is’i inot uncommon for fhips to get upon the barrmnd fometinaes they are loft.The firft place the,ftitve-fti!ps touch at indieir paffage to the Weft-Indies, is eitheri:he illand of St. Thomas, or Princes island,where they ufually carry their Pick on (bore,1 'or the benefit of the air, and likewife re-plenifti their ftock of water. The formeraf thefe islands is nearly circular, being onenundred and twenty miles round, and lies■jl'xaftly under the( equator, about forty-fiveleagues from the African continent. Itabounds with wood and water, and pro¬duces Indian corn, rice, fruits, fugar, andifome cinnamon. The air is rather prejudi-tpial to an European conftitution, neverthe*■fiefs it is well peopled by the Portuguefe.iPrinces ifland, which is much frhaller, liesin i deg. 30 min. north latitude, and like-{ wife produces Indian corn, and a* varietym fruits and roots, befides fug&r-canes, blackjlpattle, hogs and goats are numerous there;.'but it is infefted with a mifehievous anddangerous fpecies of monkeys.During one of the voyages I made, I waslanded upon the ifland of St. Thomas, withaear one hundred fick negroes, who were11,(placed in an old houfe, taken on purpofe1 or their reception. Little benefit howeveraccrued from their going on fhore, as feve-! al of them died there, and the remainderifpdfctinued nearly in the fame fituation as•ijlU-Iwhen they werelande l, though, our coa- !tinuance was prolonged for about twelvedays.Upon the arrival of the fhve-fhips in theWeft-Indies, a day is fixed for the fale oftheir cargoes...The whole of the cargoes being difpofed J$off, the (hips are made ready, for it is very: feldom, however, that they are not detain-1,- ed for want of a fufficient number of failorsJ|,as this trade may juftly be denominated the Igrave of feamen. Though the crews of the|.(hips upon their leaving England, generallyamount to: between forty and fifty men,icarcely three-fourths, and fometimes notone-third of the compliment, ever return to'the port from whence they failed, throughmortality and deferuon.The time during which the flave-(hips areafefent from England, varies according tothe deftination of the voyage, and the num-|iher of (hips on the coaft. To Bonny, orjdOld and New Calabar, a voyage is ufuallylperformed in about ten months. Thofe to ithe windward and gold coafts, are ratherf;:more uncertain, but in general from fifteen.:to eighteen months.After permiffion has been obtained forbreaking trade, the captains go alhore to|:make their purchafes. The unhappy wretch-'es thus difpofed of, are bought by the blacktraders at fairs, which are held for that pur-pofe, at the diftance of upwards «f two hund-I!j ( II > .t ircd miles from the fea coift; and thefe fairs arefffuoplied from an interior part of the country,UMany negroes, upon being quefttoned rela-; live to the places of their nativity havd af-i iferted, that thev ha\re travelled during therevolution of feveral moons, before they; Jiave reached the places where they were pur-chafed by the blade traders. At thefe fairs,i(which are held generally every fix weeks,i ifeveral thoufands are frequently expofed toI dale, and they confift chiefly of men and( boys, the women feldom exceeding a thirdof the whole number. From forty to two.. thundred negroes are generally purchafed at! a time by the black traders, and are of all; ages,from a month to fixty years and upwards,l The flaves purchated at thefe fairs are onlyrfor the lupply of the markets at Sonny, and{Old and New Calabar. Mod of the negroesiphipped from the coaft of Africa are kidnap¬ped : and it frequently happens, that tholeIwho kidnap others, aie themfelves, in theirslums, feized and fold.Continual enmity is thus foftered among:he negroes of Africa, and all focial inter-icourfe deflroyed; which moft afluredly:would not be the cafe, had they not theseJippportunities of finding a ready sale for eachMother.The preparations made at Bonny by themlack traders, upon fetting out for the fairs. J»|vhich are held up the country, are veryri :onhderable. From twenty to thirty ca-( 12 ):Jioes capable of containing thirty or fortynegroes each, are aflembled for this purpoleand fuch goods put on board (hem as theyexpedt will be wanted for the purchafe ofthe number of Haves they intend to buy.When their loading is completed, they• commence their voyage, with colours flyingand mufic playing; and in about ten oreleven days, they generally return to Bonnywith full cargoes. As foon as the canoesarrive at the trader’s landing-place, thepurchafed negroes are cleaned, and oiled•with palm-oil; and on the following daythey are expofed for fale to the captains.When the negroes, whom fhe black tra¬ders have to difpofe of, are Ihewn to theEuropean purohaiers, they fitft examinethem relative to their age : they then mi¬nutely infpedt their perfons, and enquireinto the ftate of their health; if they arc• affli&ed with any infirmity, or are deformed,or have bad eyes or teeth ; if they are lame,or weak in the joints, or diftorted in theback, or of a flender make, or arc narrowin the cheft; in fhort, if they have been, orare afflifted in any manner, fo §s to render■them incapable of much labour; if any ofthe foregoing defefts are difeovered in them,they are reje&ed : but if approved of, theyare generally taken on board the fhip thefame evening. The purchafer has libertyto return on the’following morning, but not( *3 )afterwf’r^s (nch as upon re-examination are> found exceptionable.The traders freqi'tnrly bearthofe negroeswhich are obiedled to by the captains, andlufe them with great feverity. It matters notwhether they are rcfufed on account of age,illnels, deformity, or for any other reafon.At New Calabar, in particular, the traders(have frequently been known to put themto death. Inftances have happened at that•. place, that the traders, when any of their!. negroes have been objedted to, have drop¬ped their canoes under the {tern cf theveflel, and inftantly beheaded them, in fightiof the captain.Upon the Windward Coaft, another. mode of procuring Haves is purfued ; whichis, by what they term boating; a modei ithat is very pernicious and deftructive to thecrews of the {hips. The failors, who are|employed upon this trade go in boats upiithe rivers, feeking for negroes, among the'villages feated on the banks of them : butdthis method is very How, and not alwayseffectual; for, after being abfent from theiifhip during a fortnight or three weeks, they.• fometimes return with only from eight tof'twelve negroes. Numbers of thefe are pro-icured in conlequcnce of alleged crimes,as before obferved, whenever any'fhips are upon the coaft, are more produc¬tive than at any other period. Kidnapping,however, prevailes here.( H )Treatment of Negro Slaves before they reachthe Weft Indies.AS foon as the Africans, purchafed atthe fairs, fall into the hands of theblack traders, they experience an earned of:thofe dreadful fufferings which they are: ,daomed in future to undergo. Before they 'can reach the fairs, great numbers peri(h|j.from cruel ufage, want of food, travelling|through inhofpitable deferts &c. They are 11brought from the places where they are pur-1|chafed to Bonny, &c. in canoes; at the bot-1tom of which they lie, having their hands!tied with twigs and a drift watch kept over Ithem. Their ufage in other refpefts, dur-|ing the time of the paflage, which generally |lads feveral days, is equally cruel. Their!allowance of food is fo fcanty, that it is!barely fufficient to fupport nature. They |arc belides, much expofed to the violentrains which frequently fall here, being co¬vered only with mats that afford but a flightdefence ; and as there is ufually water at jthe bottom of the canoes, from their leaking,they are fcarcely ever dry.Nor do thefe unhappy beings, after theybecome the property of the Europeans findtheir fituation in the lead amended 1 hemen negroes, on being brought aboard thefhip, arc immediatelv fadened together, twoand two, by hand-cuffs on their wrids, andby irons rivetted on their legs. 1 hey areI *5 )istkea fent down between the decks, andplaced in an apartment partitioned off forijthatpurpofe. The woiaen likewife are pla-i:\ iced in a feparate apartment between decks,but without being ironed. And an adjoin-uing room, on the fame deck, is appointed: for the boys.But, they are frequently flowed fo clofe,las t© admit of no other pofture than lyingnon their fidcs. Neither will the height be-i'tween decks, unlefs diredlly under the• grating, permit them the indulgence of an•reft pofture ; efpecialiy where there areiljplatforms which is generally the cafe. Thefeiiplatforms are a kind of fhelf, about eight ornine feet in breadth, extending from the. fide of the fhip towards the center.—Tb y•i are placed nearly midway between the decks,iflat the diftancc of two or three feet from.' each deck. Upon thefe the negroes arcjlftowed in the fame manner as they are onilthe deck underneath.In each of the apartments are placedilthree or four large buckets, ofa conical from,being near.two feet in diameter at the bot¬tom, and only one foot at the top, and indepth about twenty-eight inches; to which,hwhen ncceffary, the negroes have recourfe.3l.lt often happens, that thole who are placedat a diftance fiom the buckets, in endea¬vouring to get to them, tumble over theiri|jcompanions, in confequence of their beingC *6 )fliaclded. Tjiefe accidents, although un¬avoidable, are produ&ive of continual quar¬rels, in which fome of them are alwaysbruifed. In this diftrefled fituation, unableto proceed, and prevenied from getting tothe tubs they defift from the attempt; and,as the neceflities of nature are not to be re¬pelled, eafe themfelves as they lie. Thisbecomes a frefh fource of broils and dif-turbances. and tends to render the con¬dition of the captives ftill more uncomfort¬able. The nuifance arifing from thefe cir-cumftances, is not unfrequently increafed-by the tubs being much too fmall for thepurpofe intended, and their being ufuallyemptied but once every day. The rule fordoing this, however, varies in different fhipsaccording to the attention paid to the healthand convenience of the (laves by the cap¬tain.About eight o’clock in the morning thenegroes are generally brought upon deck.Their irons being examined, a long chain,which is locked to a ring-bolt, fixed in the*deck, is run through the rings of the fhac-k!es of the men, and then locked to anotherring-bolt, fixed alfo in the deck. By thismeans fifty, or fixty, and fometimes more,are faftened to one chain, in order to pre- ivent them from rifing, or endeavouring toefcape. If the weather proves favourable,they are permitted to remain in that fitu-rtTil( J7 )ation till four or five in the afternoon, whenrthey are difengaged from the chain, andfent down.The diet of the negroes, while on board,ronfifts chiefly ofhorfe-beans, boiled, to theconfiftenceol a pulp; of boiled yams and rice,and fometimes of a fmall quantity of beef orpork. The latter are frequently taken fromthe provifions laid in for the failors. Theyifometimes make ufe of fauce, compofed ofi palm-or I, mixed with flour, water, and pep¬per, which the failors call flabber-lauce.Yams are the favourite food of the Eboe, or“ Bfght negroes, and nee or corn, of thofcfrom the Gold and Windward coafts; eachtpretering the produce of their native foil.In their own country, the negroes in ge¬neral live on animal food and fifh, with roots,yams and Indian corn.—The horie-beans 6cbi rice, with which they are fed aboard Ihip,r; are chiefly taken from Europe. The latter,I indeed, is fometimes purghafedon the coart:,r being far fuperior to any other.The Gold coart negroes karcely ever re-j fufe any food that is offered them, and theygenerally eat larger quantities of whatever isplaced before them, than any other fpeciesf of negroes, whom they likewife excel injftrength of body and mind. Mort of theflaves have fuch'an averfion to the horfe-beans, that unlefs they.are narrowly watched,when fed upon deck, they w'rti throw them.( IS )over board, or in each other's faces whe |they quarrel.They are commonly fed twice a d*y||about eight o’clock in the morniragand foiiilin the afternoon. In mod (hips they arilonly fed with their own food once a dayllTheir food is ferved up to them in tubs!abont the fize of a fmall water buckeC|They are placed round thefc tubs in com]1panics of ten to each tub, out of which theufeed themfelves with wooden fpoons. Theftlthey foon lofe, and when they are not allow 1ed others, they feed themfelves with then Ihands. In favourable weather they are feelupon deck, but in bad weather their food i:given them below. Numberlefs quarrehltake place among them during their meals i|more efpecially when they are put upos hfhort allowance, which frequently happens,if the paffage from the coaft of Guinea tcthe Well India ifland% proves of unufualjlength In that cafe, the weak are obligedto be content with a very fcanty portion.— !Their allowance of water is about half a pmtieach at every meal. It is handed round inia bucket, and given to each negroe in anpan nek in; a fmall utenfil with a ftraic handle,, jfomewhat limilar to a fauce-boat. How¬ever, when the fliips approach the ifiands,with a favourable breeze; they are nolonger reftrided.m( 19 ): Upon the negroes refilling to take fufterr: ce, coals cf fire are put on a Ihovel, andt! iaced fo near their lips, as to fcorch andllitn them ; accompanied with threats, ofireing them to fwallow the coals, H*theyififl. in refuftng to eat.i £xercife being deemed necefTary for the'teliefervation of thrir health, they are fome-nes obliged to dance when the weatherill permit their coining on deck. Thejot wretches are fiequently compelled to’ ng alfo ; but whin they do io, their fongse geneially melancholy lamentations ofeir exile ficm their native country.I The wromen are furnilhed with beads for!>e purpofe oi affording them feme diver-ron. But this end is generally defeated bylie fqnabfeks which are occafioned, in con-. iquence of their flealing them from eachher.i On board feme fhips, the common Tailors?re allowed to have intercourfe with Inch offhe black women whofe confent they canicirocme. And tome of them have beenoinown to take the inconftancy of their par-Bpours fo much to heart, as to leap over¬board and drown themfelves. The officersIre peimuted to indulge their pafiions amongBuem at pleafure, and fometimes are guiltyII fuch brutal excelfes, as difgrace humanMature.f Negioes are far more violently affected|y fea-ficknels than Europeans. It fit-( *0 )quently terminates in death, efpechjlbamong the women. Moft of the (hips||the flave-trade are provided, between i{Vdecks, with five or fix air-ports on eachof the fhip, of about fix Inches in length Jfour in breadth ; in addition to which, foilfew. (hips have wind lails. But whenevithe fea i^jough, and the rairf heavy', it fjlcomes neceffary to mot thefe, and evelj•other conveyance by which tne air is-ad mlted. The frelh air being thus excluded, tnegroes rooms very loon grow intolerabvhot. The confined air, rendered noxioby the effluvia exhaled from their bodieand by being repeatedly breathed, locproduces fevers and fluxes, which general 1carrv off great numbers of them.The place .Hotted for heTick negroes lunder the half deck, where they lie on tilbare planks. By this means, thofe who ailemaciated, frequently have their fkin, amieven then flelb, entirely rubbed olfi, by th|motion ol the ihip, from the prominent panlof the lbould: rc, elbows, and hips, lo as t;render the bones in thofepacts quite bare|And iorne of them by conftantfy lying i llthe blood and mucus, that had flowed tronljthole afflicted with the flux, and which, ai|lbefore obferved, is generally fo violent as njlprevent their befing kept clean, have theijlflelh much fboner rubbed off, than, thofijlwho have only to contend with the men[J( 21 )[ lion of the (hip. The excruciating painrich the poor futserers feel from being ob-d to continue in fuch a dreadful fitua-.i, frequently for feveral weeks, in cafei '•f happen to live fo long, is not to be con-::/ed or defcribed. Few, indeed, arceve?r,e to withftand the fatal effedls of it. TheI toft fkill of the furgeon is here ineffec-l. If plaiflers be applied,- they are very\ a difplaced by the friCtion of the fliip ;j:j, when bandages are 'bfed, the negroes|y foon take them off, and appropriat*m to other purpofes.!|!l\lmoft the only means by which thetigeon can render himfelf ufeful to ther es, is by leeing that their food is proper-teooked, and diftributed among them,ns true, when they arrive near the mar-s for which they are deftined, carc isoen to polidi them for fale, by an appli-Iion of ihe lunar cauftic to fuch as arep&ed with the yaws This, however,j«rds but a teray orary relief, as the diftale■ fft affurecly breaks out, whenever theriient is put upon a vegetable diet.(frhe lo<s of flaves, through mortality,fi’ing from the caufes juft mentioned, arejbuently very confiderable. One half,(jnetimes two thirds, and even beyond that,-e been known to perifh. On the Wind¬ed coaft, where flaves are procured fiosv-H voy few die, in proportion to the num-bars which die at B >riny, and at Old atNew Calabar, where they jye obtained mufaller; the latter being of a more delies rmake and habit. .As very few negroes Ccan fa far brook t,lofs of liberty, and the hardthips they e idure, with any degiee of patience, they aitever upon the watch to take advantage ■the Icaft negligence in their opprelfo I1Infurrc&ions are frequently the coni tquence ; which are feldom fuppreifed wit lout much bloodihed. Sometimes thefe tfucceisful, and the whole (hip’s companycut off. They are hkcwife always ready !feize every opportunity for committing foract of defperation to free theml’elves fratheir miferable date ; and notwithdanditthe redraints under which tney are laithey often lucceed.sin Account of the Manner in which Sian iare fold in the Plantations.W'dEN the (hips arrive in the WeiIndies, thefe Haves are difpofedby different methods.Sometimes the mode of difpofal is that <:felling them by what is termed a fcramble\and a day is (oon fixed tor that purpofkBut previous thereto, the lick, or refuliHaves, of which ther^ are frequently manj|are ufuady conveyed on Ihore, and lolJ ^a tavern by vendue, or public amfticfrefe, in general, are purchafed by the Jews!p furgeons, but chiefly the former, uponiculation, at fo low a pi ice as five or lixi;|ilars a head. Sometimes the captains3'jirch their flaves throvigh the town at whichj'py intend to difpofe of them ; aiul thennice them in rows where they are examin-: and puichafed.The mode of telling them by fcramble isfollows.The negroes being landed, and placedogethtr in a large yard, belonging to theMerchants to whom the (hip is configntd.!;s (oon as the hour agreed on arrives, thears of the yard are luddenly thrown open,3 in ruth the purcha;ers, v/ith all tiieocity of brutes. Some inflamly leize fuchthe negroes as they can conveniently iayId of with their hands. Others, beingipared with feveral handkerchiefs tied to-:her, encircle with thefe as many as they: able. While others, by means of a ropethe fame pur pole. It is fearedy pof-le to detenbe the confuflon of which this)de of felling is produ&ivc. It hkewifeafes much animofity among the pwcha.s, who, not unfrcquently upon theie ocea¬ns, fall oui and quarrel with each other ;d often the poor aftonilhcd negroes arc foJch terrified by thefe proceedings, thatreral of them, through fear, climb over; wall of the court yard, and run wild( 24 )about the town ; but are foon hunted dowiand retaken.When the fcramble is on fhip-hoard, the;negroes are collefted together upon th<main and quarter decks, and the (hip dark-lened by fails lufpended over them, in ordeito prevent the purchafers from being ableto fee, fo as to pick or chule. The fignabeing given, the buyers rufh in to feizetheir prey ; when the negrq.es appear to bf:extremely terrified, and n.any of them jumpinto the fea. But they are foon retakenchiefly by boats from other fhips.On board a fhip, lying at Port Maria, tilJamaica, the poor negroes were greatlyterrified. The women in particular, clang;to each other in agonies fcarcely to be con*ceived, fhrieking through excels of terror, at:the favage manner in which their brutalpurchafers ruflied upon, and feized them.Though humanity, one fliould imagine,would diflate to the aptains to apprize thepoor negroes of the mode by which theywere to be fold, and by that means to guardthem, in feme degree, againft the furprifeand teror which muft attend it.FINISfrinitd by C Miller, Dunlin.