*THELIFE ANDT9NISHING ADVEXSTUEESOFPETER WILLIAMSON,J WAS CARRIED OFF WHEN A CHILD FROMABERDEEN AND SOLD FOR A SLAVE,GLASGOW »*HINT K I) I' l» H THE )i 0 0 K S E 1, L 8 (l 3#'tTHE/.iIFS AND AD17BNTURSSSOFPETER VVIIjLIAMSON.Was horn in the parish of Aboyne, Aberdeenhire, of respectable parents, who sent me veryr!y to live with an aunt at Aberdeen; when,ider the years of pupillarity, one playing one quay with others of my companions—beinga stout robust constitution—I was taken noticeby two fellows belonging to a vessel in therbour, employed, in the trade called kidnap,g; that is stealing young children from theirrents, and selling them as slaves in plantationsroad. Being market out by those monsters ofpiety as- their prey, I was cajoled on board thep by them, where I was no sooner got, thaney conducted me between the decks to somehers they had kidnapped in the same manner.: that time, I had no sense of the fate that wasstined for me, and spent the time in childishnk u4amusements with my fellow-sufferers in the stdage, being never suffered to go upon deck whithe vessel lay in the harbour.In about a month’s time the ship set sail iAmerica. I cannot forget that, when we arrivon the coast we were destined for, a hard galewind sprung up from the S. E. and, to the catain’s great surprise (he not thinking he was neland, although having been 11 weeks on the pa*age), about twelve o’clock at night, the shstruck on a sand hank off Cape May, near tCapes of Delaware, and, to the great terror aiaffright of the ship’s company, in a short tirwas almost full of wrater. The boat was tinhoisted out, into which the captain and his ftlow villians, the crew, got with some difficultleaving me and my deluded companions to perisas they then naturally concluded inevitable deato be our fate. Often, in my distresses aimiseries since, have I wished that such had betthe consequence, when in a state of innocenctBut Providence thought proper to reserve ufor future trials of its goodness. Thus abandomand deserted, without the least prospect of relitbut threatened every moment with death, dthese villians leave us. The cries, the shriekand tears of a parcel of infants, had no effect oor caused the least remorse in the breasts of themerciless wretches. Scarce can 1 say to wLh  — ^ive the preference, whether to such as these,i have had the opportunity of knowing theistian religion ; oi to the savages herein aftericribed, who profane not the gospel, or boast[humanity ; and if they act in a more brutal andjlcherly manner, yet it is to their enemies, for' sake of plunder and the rewards offered themtheir principles are alike—the love of sordidif) being both their motives. The ship beingla sand bank, which did not-give way to let|i deeper, we lay in the same deplorable condi-11 until morning, when, though we saw thejil of Cape May, at about a mile’s distance, we|w not what would be our fate,f he wind at length abated, and the captain,jf'illing to lose all her cargo, about ten o’clock,some of his crew in a boat to the ship’s sid*1ring us on shore, where we lay in a sort of ap, made of the sails of the vessel, and suchr things as we could get. Tire provisionsus until we were taken in by a vessel boundhiladelphia, lying on this island, as well asn recollect, near three weeks. Very littlere cargo was saved undamaged, and the ves-,vas entirely lost./’hen arrived and landed at Philadelphia, thetal of Pennsylvania, the captain had peoplegh who came to buy us. He, sold us atit £1C per head. What became of my un-Hi6happy companions, I never knew; it was myto be sold to one of my countrymen, whose nawas Hugh Wilson, a North Britain, who hathis youth undergone the same fate as myselhaving been kidnapped from St. Johnstown,Scotland.Happy was my lot in falling into my countman’s power, as he wTas, contrary to many otliof his calling, a humane, worthy, honest mHaving no children of his own, and commisating my unhappy condition, he took great cof me until I was fit for business, and, about12th year of my age, set me about little triflin which state I continued until my 14th yewhen I was more fit for harder work. Dursuch my idle state, seeing my fellow-servantsten reading and writing, it incited in me anclination to learn, which I intimated to my mter, telling him I should be very willing to sea vear longer than the contract by which I asold, if he would indulge me in going to schothis he readily agreed to, saying that winter wobe the best time. It being then summerwaited with impatience for the other season ; hto make some progress in my design, I goPrimer, and learned as much from my fell*!servants as I could. At school, where I wevery winter for five years, I made a tolercproficiency, and have ever since been improv■3*; yself at leisure hours. With this gooil masterj continued till I was seventeen years old, when! i died ; and, as a reward for my faithful service,? left me £200 currency, which was then about150 sterling-, his best horse, saddle, and all hisearing apparel.Being now my own master, having money iny pocket, and all other necessaries, I employedyself in jobbing about the country, working forly one that wqpld employ me, for near sevenpars, when, thinking 1 had money sufficient toi ilow some better way of life, I resolved to set-e, but thought one step necessary thereto was) be married ; for which purpose I applied tore daughter of a substantial planter, and foundly suit was not unacceptable to her or her father,) that matters were soon concluded upon, andie married. My father-in-law, in order to es-iblish us in the w-orld in an easy, if not affluentlanner, made me a deed of gift of a tract of land,rat lay, unhappily for me, as it has since proved,n the frontiers of the province of Pennsylvania,ear the forks of Delaware, in Berks County,rontaining about 200 acres ; 30 of which were'ell cleared, and fit for immediate use, whereonms a good house and barn. The place pleasingire well, I settled on it, though it cost me therajor part of my money in buying stock, house-lold furniture, and implements for out-door work ;8and happy as I was in a ^nod wife, yet did mifelicity last me not long; for about the year 1754the Indians in the French Interest, who had f<|a long time before ravaged and destroyed otluiparts of America unmolested, I may very propeily say, began to be very troublesome on thfrontiers of our province, where they generallappeared in small skulking parties, with yelling^shoutings, and antic postures, instead of trumpetand drums, committing great devastations. TqPennsylvanians little imagined at first that tinIndians, guilty of such outrages and violencewere some of those who pretended to be in th*English interest; which, alas! proved to be tottrue to many of us ; for, like the French in Europe, without regard to faith or treaties, thejfsuddenly break out into furious, rapid outragesand devastations, but soon retire precipitately;having no stores nor provisions but what the)meet with in their incursions. Some indeetcarry a bag with biscuit or Indian corn therein,but not unless they have a long march to theiidestined place of action. And those French whcwere sent to dispossess us in that part of theworld, being indefatigable in their duty, and con¬tinually contriving and using all manner of waysand means to win the Indians to their interest!many of whom had been too negligent, and some¬times, I may say, cruelly treated by those who9•etend to be their protectors and friends, foundno very difficult matter to get over to theirterest many who belonged to (hose nations inrity with us, especially as the rewards theyre them were so great, they paying for everyalp of an English person £15 sterling.Shocking to human nature were the barbari-js daily committed by the savages, and are noti be paralleled in all the volumes of history !sarce did a day pass but some unhappy familyother fell victims to savage cruelty. Terribledeed it proved to me, as well as to many others ;rthat was now happy in an easy state of life,essed with an affectionate and tender wife, whois possessed of all amiable qualities, to enable3 to go through the world with that peace andrenity of mind which every Christian wishes tossess, became on a sudden one of the most un-ppy and deplorable of mankind. Scarce cansustain the shock which for ever recoils on me,thinking on the last time of seeing that good>man. The fatal 2d of October, 1754, sheit day went from home to visit some of her re¬ions. As I staid up later than usual, expect-:i £ her return, none being in the house besides'self, how great was my surprise, terror, and! right, when, about 11 o’clock at night, I heard3 dismal war-cry, or war-whoop of the savages,d to my inexpressible grief, soon found myI \IMPmhHPW10house was attacted by them. I flew to my chainber window, and perceived them to be twelve irnumber. They making several attempts to geir, I asked them what they wanted. They gavime no answer, but continued beating, and trying to get the door opened. Judge, then, tincondition I must be in, knowing the cruelty ammerciless disposition of those savages, should 1fall into their hands. To escape which dread himisfortune, having my gun loaded in my handI threatened them with death if they should noidesist. But how vain and fruitless are the effortof one man against the united force of so many,and of such merciless, undaunted, and bloodthirsty monsters as I had here to deal with. Omof them that could speak a little English, threat¬ened me in return, that, if I did not come outthey would burn me alive in the house—tellingme farther, that they were no friends to the English ; but if I would come out and surrender myself prisoner, they would not kill me. My ter¬ror and distraction at hearing this is not to hiexpressed by words, nor easily imagined by antperson, unless in the same condition. Litthcould I depend on the promises of such creaturesand yet, if 1 did not, inevitable death, by beingburnt alive, must me my lot. Distracted aswas, in such deplorable circumstances, I chose tirely on the uncertainty of their fallacious promis11ratlier than meet with certain death, by re¬nting them ; and, accordingly, went out of myuse with my gun in my hand, not knowing' lat I did, or that I had it. Immediately onapproach, they rushed oa me like so many-;ers, and instantly disarmed“*me. Having meus in their power, the merciless villians bound; to a tree near the door; they then went into.3 house, and plundered and destroyed everyi ng, carrying off what moveables they could;rest, together with the house, they set fireand consumed before my eyes. The barbar-j|s, not satisfied with this, set fire to my barn,jltble, and out-houses, wherein were about 200shels of wheat, six cows, four horses, and five[ ?ep, which were entirely consumed to ashes,iring the conflagration to describe the thoughts,; i fears, and misery that I felt, is utterly im-jissible, after this, they untied me, and gave mejreat load to carry on my back, under which I1 veiled all that night with them, full of thest tetrible apprehensions, and oppressed withi greatest anxiety of mind, lest my unhappy:e should likewise have fallen a prey to thoseel monsters. At day-break, my infernal mas-s ordered me to lay down my load, when, tie-my hands again round a tree with a smalld, they then forced the blood out of my fin--ends. They then kindled a fire near thetree whereto I was bound, which filled me witldreadful agonies, concluding I was going to bemade a sacrifice to their barbarity.The fire being thus made, they for some firmdanced round me after their manner, with various odd motions and antic gestures, whoopinghalloeing, and crying in a frightful manner, ait is their custom. Having satisfied themselvesin this sort of their mirth, the)'’ proceeded in $more tragical manner, taking' the burning coaand sticks, flaming with fire at the ends, holdinthem near my face, head, hands, and feet, wita deal of monstrous pleasure and satisfaction, an*at she same time threatening to burn mo entire ;ly if I made the least noise or motion of my body ,>Thus tortured, as I was, almost to death,suffered their brutal pleasure without being at ,■lowed to vent my inexpressible anguish otherwisthan by shedding tears; even which, when thes ,inhuman tormentors observed, with a shockin :pleasure and alacrity, they would take fresh coaland apply near my eyes, telling me my face wawet, and that they would dry it for me. Howl »suffered these tortures, I have here faintly described, has been matter of wonder to me mam ,times; but God enabled me to wait with moilthan common patience for a deliverance 1 duil iprayed for.Having at length satisfied their brutal plcasurty sat round the fire and roasted their meat ofich they had robbed my dwelling. Wheny had prepared it, and satisfied their voraciousjetites, they offered some to me; though it isidly imagined I had but little appetite to eat,fer the tortures and miseries I had undergone,«t was I forced to seem pleased with what theyrered me, lest, by refusing it, they had againumed their hellish practices. What I couldeat, I contrived to get between the bark and! tree where I was fixed, they having unboundhands until they imagined I had eat all theyre me; but then they again bound me as be-e, in which deplorable condition was I forcedcontinue all that day. When the sun was set,•y put out the fire, and covered the ashes withsves, as is their usual custom, that the white>ple might not discover any traces or signs of|ir having been there.poing from thence along by the river, for theatce ot six miles, loaded as I was before, we ar¬id at a spot near the Apalachian mountains,ere they hid their plunder under logs of wood ;l Oh, shocking to relate ! from thence did theselish monsters proceed to a neighbouring house,upied by one Joseph Snider and his unhappylily, consisting of his wife, five children, andoung man, his servant. They soon got ad-tance into the unfortunate man’s house, where.14they immediately, without the least remorse, an<|with more than brutal cruelty, scalped the teiJder parents and the unhappy children; nor couthe tears, the shrieks, or cries of these unhap]victims prevent their horrid massacre ; for bavin;thus scalped them, and plundered the housetfcevery thing that was moveable, they set fire tthe same, where the poor creatures met theifinal doom amidst the flames, the hellish miscreants standing at the door, or as near the housas the flames would permit them, rejoicing adechoing back, in their diabolical manner, tlifepiercing cries, heart-rending groans, and pateinal and affectionate soothings, which issued froi tthis most horrid sacrifice of an innocent familjnot contented with what they had already don*they still continued their inordinate villiany,making a general conflagration of the barn an i.stables, together with all the corn, horses, cowand every thing on the place.Thinking the young man belonging to tunhappy family would be of some service to thejin carrying part of their plunder, they spared litlife, and loaded him and myself with what thhad here got, and again marched to the Bl»Hills, where they stowed their goods as beforMy fellow-suft’erer could not long bear the cm .treatment which we were both obliged to sufft .and complaining bitterly to me of being unal .IcO!proceed any farther, I endeavoured to condoleti as much as lay in my power, to bear up un-r his afflictions, and wait with patience till, byip divine assistance, we should be delivered outtheir clutches; but in vain, for he still contin-I d his moans and tears, which one of the sava-is perceiving- as we travelled on, instantly camei to us, and with his tomahawk gave him afw on the head, which felled the unhappy youththe ground, where they immediately scalped11 left him. The suddenness of this murderj icked me to that degree, that I was in a man-Ilike a statue, being quite motionless, expect-my fate would soon be the same; however,overing my distracted thoughts, I dissembledI uneasiness and anguish which I felt, as wellI could, from the barbarians; but such was)■ terror that I was under, that for some time Icffl rce knew the days of the week, or what I did,; that, at this period, life indeed became a bur-11 to me, and I regretted being saved from my|t persecutors, the sailors.The horrid fact being completed, they kept onir course near the mountains, where they layel Iking four or five days, rejoicing at the plun-I and store they had got. When provisionsamt scarce, they made their way towardssii quehana, where still, to add to the many bar-; ides they had already committed, passing near16another house inhabited by an unhappy old manwhose name was John Adams, with his wife anfour small children; and, meeting with no resisa nee, they immediately scalped the unlmppy wiand her four children, before the good old maneyes. Inhuman and horrid as this was, it dunot satiate them, for when they had murdereithe poor woman, they acted with her in such ibrutal manner, as descency, or the remembrancof the crime, will not permit me to mention, anthis even before the unhappy husband, who n<being able to avoid the sight, and incapable caffording1 her the least relief, entreated them tput an end to his miserable being ; but they weras deaf and regardless to the tears, prayers, anentreaties of this venerable sufferer, as they habeen to those of the others, and proceeded in the;hellish purpose of burning and destroying Iv 'house, barn, cattle, hay, corn, and every thimthe poor man a few hours before was master oHaving saved what they thought proper from tflames, they gave the old man, feeble, weak, an]in the miserable condition he then was, as was myself, burdens to carry, and loading theselves likewise with bread and meat, purstheir journey on towards the Great Swamwhere, being arrived, they lay for eight or nidavs, sometimes diverting themselves in exereiug the most atrocious and barbarous cruelties!17eir unhappy victim, the old man; sometimesey would strip him naked, and paint him all: er with various sorts of colours, which they, tracted, or made from herbs and roots ; at otheraes, they would pluck the white hairs from his:nerable beard, and tauntingly tell him, he was'ool for living so long, and that they would\ jw him kindness in putting him out of thei aid ; to all which the poor creature could butat his sigdis, his tears, his moans, and entreaties,& , i . . . ,t, to my anrighted imagination, were enoughpenetrate a heart of adamant, and soften thest obdurate savage. In vain, alas ! were alltears, for daily did they tire themselves withvarious means they tried to torment him—etimes tying him to a tree, and whipping; at others, scorching his furrowed cheeksred-hot coals, and burning his legs, quite toknees; but the good old man, instead of re-ng, or wickedly arraigning the divine justice,many others in such cases, even in the great-gonies, incessantly offered up his prayers toImighty, with the most fervent thanksgiv-for his former mercies, and hoping the flames,surrounding and burning his aged limbs,d soon send him to the blessful mansions ofust, to be a partaker of the blessings there,during such his pious ejaculations, his in-d plages would come round him, mimickino’18liis heart-rending" groans and piteous wailinjOne night after he had thus'been tormentewhilst he and I were sitting together, condolijeach other at the misfortunes and miseriesdaily suffered, twenty scalps and three prisomwere brought in by another party of India)They had unhappily fallen in their handsCannojigge, a small town near the river Susquhana, chielly inhabited by the Irish. Thprisoners gave us some shocking accounts ofmurders and devastations committed in their narThe various and complicated actions of these bjbarians would entirely fill a large volume; lwhat I have already written, with a few otinstances which 1 shall select from the inforntion, will enable the reader to guess at the hortreatment the English, a^id Indians in theirterest, suffered for many years past. I sirtherefore only mention, in a brief manner, tin uthat suffered near the same time with mysThis party who now joined us, had it notfound, in their power to begin their wickedas soon as those who visited my habitation,first of their tragedies being on the 25th dayOctober, 1754, when John Lewis, with hisand three small children, fell sacrifices to tcruelty, and were miserably scalped anddered, his house, barn, and every thing hesessed being burnt and destroyed. On the 2f;19, icob Miller, with his wife and six of his family,gether with every thing on his plantation, un-j “rwent the same fate. The 30th, the house,ill, barn, twenty head of cattle, two teams otIjrses, and every thing belonging to the unhap-r George Folke, met with the I ke treatment—imself, wife, and all his miserable family, con-i sting of nine in number, being inhumanly scal-;d, then cut in pieces and given to the swine,hich devoured them. I shall give another in-nee of the numberless and unheard of barbar-es they related of the savages, and proceed toleir own tragical end. In short, one of the sub-antial traders belonging to the province, havingsiness that called him some miles up the coun-y, fell into the hands of these devils, who notly scalped him, but immediately roasted himfore he was dead ; then, like cannibals for w'antother food, eat his whole body, and of his headade what they called an Indian pudding.From these few instances of savage cruelty,ie deplorable situation of the defenceless inhabi-nts, and what they hourly suffered in that part‘ the globe, must strike the utmost terror to aJinan soul, and cause in every breast the utmostitestation, nor only against the authors of suchagic scenes, but against those who, throughirfidy, inattention, or pusillanimous and errone-is principles, suffered these savages at firs’!, un-20repelled, or even unmolested, to commit sue!outrages and incredible depradations and murders ; for no torments, no barbarities that can b<jexercised on the human sacrifices they get intdtheir power, are left untried or omitted.The three prisoners that were brought withthese additional forces, constantly repining alltheir lot, and almost dead with their excessivehard treatment, contrived at last to make theinescape ; but being far from their own settlements!and not knowing the country, were soon aftelmet by some others of the tribes or nations aiwar with us, and brought back to their diabolcal masters, who greatly rejoiced at having themagain in their infernal power. The poor crea*tures, almost famished for want of sustenance;having nad none during the time of their elopejment, were no sooner in the clutches of the bar*barians, than two of them were tied to a tree,and a great fire made round them, where they re¬mained till they were terribly scorched and burnt,when one of the villians, with his scalping knife,ripe open their bellies, took out their entrails,and burnt them before their eyes, whilst theothers were cutting, piercing, and tearing theflesh from their breasts, hands, arms, and legs,with red-hot irons, till they were dead. 1 hethird unhappy victim was reserved a few hourslonger, to be, if possible, sacrificed in a moreicl manner—his arms were tied close to hisy, and a hole being dug deep enough for himstand upright, he was put therein, and earthtimed and beat in all round his body, up to thek, so that his head only appeai'ed above theund ; they then scalped him, and there leti remain for three or four hours in the great-agonies j after which they made a small lirer Ids head, causing him to suffer the most ex-:iating torments imaginable, whilst the poortore could only cry for mercy in killing himxediately, for his brains were boiling in hisd. Inexorable to all his plaints, they contin-the fire, whilst, shocking to behold, his eyesed out of their sockets ; and such agonizingents did the unhappy creature suffer for nearhours till he was quite dead! They thenff his head and buried it with the otheres-—my task being to dig the graves, which,e and terrified as I was, the dread of suffer-the same fate, enabled me to do. I shallxere take up the reader’s time, in vainly at-iting to describe what I felt on such an oc-n, but continue my narrative, as more equaly abilities.great snow now falling, the barbarians wereHie fearful lest the white people should, bytraces, find out their skulking retreats,obliged them to make the best of their*22way to their winter quarters, about two bundmiles farther from any plantation or inhabitanwhere, after a long and tedious journey, beialmost starved, I arrived with this infernal ere!The place where we were to rest. In their tonis called Alamingo. There were found a nber of wigwams full of their women and childrDancing, shooting, and shouting, were their g<eral amusements; and in all their festivalsdances they relate what successes they have hjand what damages they have sustained in tlexpeditions, in which I became part of t!itheme. The severity of the cold increasing, tstript me of my clothes, for their own use,gave me such as they usually wore themselvbeing a piece of blanket, a pair of mogganes,;shoes, with a yard of coarse cloth to put rorme instead of breeches. To describe their drand manner of living may not be altogetheracceptable to some of my readers; but, assize of this book will not permit me to be soticular as I might otherwise be, I shall justserve, that they, in general, wear a white bllket, which in war-time they paint with varil:figures, bnt particularly the leaves of trees, in Ider to deceive their enemies, when in the woeTheir mogganes are made of deer-skins, andbest sort have them bound round the edges v ;little beads and ribbands. On their legs twear pieces of blue cloth for stockings, some likeour soldiers’ splatter-dashes. They reach high¬er than their knees, but not lower than tl>ir an¬cles. They esteem them easy to run in. Breachesthey never wear, but instead thereof two piecesof linen, one before and another behind. Thebetter sort have shirts of the finest linen they canget, and to these some wear ruffies; but thesethey never put on till they have painted them ofvarious colours, which they get from the peconeroot and bark of trees, and never pull them onto wash, but wear them till they fall to pieces.They are very proud, and take great delight inwearing trinkets, such as silver plates, round theirrists and necks, with several strings of wampum,yhich is made of cotton, interwoven with peb-les, cockleshells, &c. down to their breasts, andfom their ears and noses they have rings or beadsrhich hand dangling an inch or two. The menlave no beards, to prevent which they use cer¬tain instruments and tricks as soon it begins torrow. The hair of their heads is managed dif-erently; some pluck out and destroy all, exceptlock hanging from the crown of the head, whichhey interweave with wampum and feathers ofrious colours. The women wear it very long,wisted down their backs with beads, feathers,,nd wmnpum, and on their heads most of themyear little coronets of brass or coppar; round24their middle they wear a blanket instead of apetticoat. The females are very chaste and con-1stant to their husbands; and if any young maidenshould happen to have a child before marriage,she is never esteemed afterwards. As for their:food, they get it chiefly by hunting and shoot¬ing, and boil or roast all the meat they eat.Their standing dish consists of Indian corn soaked,then bruised and boiled. Their bread is likewisemade of, wild oats, or sun-flower seeds. Theirgun, tomahawk, scalping-knife, powder and shot,!they carry with them in time of war. They inwar decline open engagements; bush fighting odskulking is their discipline; they are brave whenengaged, having great fortitude in enduring tor¬tures and are the most implacably vindictive peo¬ple upon the earth; for they revenge the deathof any relation, or any affront, whenever occasionpresents, let the distance of time be never so re¬mote. After long enduring the greates of hard¬ships with these Indians. I at last escaped out!of their hand and went to Quebec ; where, I was!put on board a French Packet, bound lor Eng#land, and after a passage of six weeks. We, alast, to our great joy. arrived at Plymouth, obthe 6th of November, 1756.FINIS