ACCOUNTOFj The Royal Visit*orGEORGE THE IVthTOSCOTLAND.Printed by H. Cpawford, Bookseller,1822.ACCOUNTOFHis Majesty s Visit to Scotland*f I 'HE visit of George the Fourth to the Scottishmetropolis may well be considered a remark¬able event in our national annals. Certain it is,that no other event of a domestic nature couldhave occurred more honourable to the people ofScotland, or more gratifying to their feelings.—Edinburgh is regarded by the Scots with pride,and a veneration almost religious, of which stran¬gers to their character can have no adequate con¬ception; It is not merely the capital of the coun¬try, and celebrated as a seat of science and of li¬terature, but it has still higher claims upon theirrespect as the favourite abode of their ancient me*narchs —as the scene, in latter ages, of everygreat political transaction in which the nation hasbeen concerned—and as the depository of the©nly remaining symbols cf its former indepen¬dence. Its castle, its palace, its courts of jus¬tice, those hallowed vestiges of the olden tme,are familiar household words in the remotest d>«-tricts: they are still appscached by the provinc*aj|Scot with the pious feeling of a pilgrim, and never?3U to inspire him with all the fervid enthusiasmf patriotism.I In the spring, the rumour of the King being/Dout to visit Scotland was again revived and im-icitly relied cn, until contradicted in a form,i hieh, though ntt official, wras so decided andperemptory as to induce the opinion that his Ma-, :9ty had suspended his gracious intentions. But11 doubt and uncertainty were soon removed, byillettcr received by the Lord Provost of Edin-: ngh, upon the 18th of July, from Lord Vis-: aunt Melville, Lord Privy Seal for Scotland,litimating. th?t •is Majesty had positively re-ilved to visit Scotland during the summer, andight be expected to reach Edinburgh on or aboute 10th of August. The deputy-keeper of Holy-l|odhouse received a letter to the same effect, inMder that the necessary preparations might behade for his Majesty’s reception.The announcement of this intelligence produc-in Edinburgh a sensation not to be described,arious and splendid prepara ions were instantlygun—roads were repaired, arches and platformsnected, buildings offensive to taste removed ^ —order was issued by the civic authorities forrsonsto appear in a blue coat, white vest, andmke#n pantaloons, and a St. Andrew’s cross one left side of the hat. Hciyroodhouse, theastle, St. Giles’s Church, and the Parliament-use, underwent very considerable repairs.——eetings of the Lieurenancy of Scotland, thefjculty of Advocates, the Highland Society, &c.3“re held, for the purpose of voting dutiful andtpl addresses to his Majesty.f|The ladies of Scotland, at this time resident inthe naetropelis, participated largely in the erthusiasm which aiiimated all classes. They delegated Sir Walter Scott, the bard of chiralry anromance, to greet the approach of their sovereigto the Scottish shove, and to do homage in theiiname, by laying-a St. Andrew’s Cross, the ancient emblem of Scotland, at the feet of his hla 1jesty. The design of this elegant offering is chasteand worthy of the fair hands that formed it.consists of a broad and rich cross of pearls raiseion blue velvet, and enclosed within a belt of'goldl 1on which is embroidered, with pearls, the G*li»motto of lliogk Aibhain gu brath.—Hail to ihtJ\ing of Scotland.—The belt is attached by abrilliant diamond buckle, and from its extremity «j'suspended a magnificent pearl, the produced,'Scotland, and probably the finest ever found iithis country. The whole is surmounted by thtimperial crown, girt round, with brilliants, ancrichly decorated with rubies, emeralds, and thttopaz, alternating with pearls, in the manner ol |the sneient Scottish crown, long forgotten, buauspiciously brought to light a little before thijperiod. A band with a buckle of Scottish geniiis adjusted, so as to admit of this elegant antcostly, jewel being yvorn either on the hat or bournround the arm. IHis Majesty selected Dalkieth house as his plactof residence—and it was fitted up in a most mag;nificent and splendid manner. On the 12th o*.August, with all due ceremony, the Regalia o-Scotland yy^re taken from the Castle to the Palaqof Holyrood.On Saturday the lllh of August the King rmibarked at Greenwich for Scotland—and on thr ■14th h c arrived in Leith Roads.When the arrival of Sir Waiter Scott alongside*s royal yacht was announced to the King,What l” said his Majesty, “ Sir Walter Scott ?3 man in Scotland I most wish to see ! Letn come up.” This distinguished baronet thenipencled the ship, and was presented to the KingIthe quarter-deck, lav whom he was most gra-usly received ; and, after an appropriate speech,lithe name of the ladies of Edinburgh, presentedVl Majesty with the St. Andrew’s Cross, whichi] fair subjects had provided for him. The k:ng,h evident marks of satisfaction, made a gra-los reply to Sir Waiter, received the gift, andmised to wear it in public Sir Walter kne4tri kissed the hand of his sovereign,ipis Majesty, we are most happy to say, thoughicneountered much rough weather on his voy-l endured no sea sickness •, but on account ofliibadness of the day did no: immediately land,iiNext day, before twelve o’clock, a gunilia the Royal George announced that the KingIJ entered his barge. The moment the signal;i|hear^| a shout was raised by the thousandsjnbled upon shore, the efferr of which was in-•|r it ably striking. When at some distancethe shore, his Majesty was saluted by Mr.who was walking upon the water, to whomfajesty bowed. When his Maj^-ty advancede landing-place, three distinct, well-ti neds were given by the tars uho manned thejks abreast of the bridge ; which was Vjlow-p by the universal shouts, ol all upon <he,—shouts the mo t hearty and prolonged thatTreeted the ears of a monarch At twentyes past twelve o’clock, his Majesty, who was6«iress«tl in an admiral’s uniform, with a thistle ana sprig of heath in his hat, and the St. Andrew’]Cross, presented to him in the name of the ladie:of Edinburgh, upon his breast, was alongside thlanding-place. The Marquis of Lothian and Si;Chatles Bentinck assisted his Majesty to step ouof the launch upon the raft, where both these!noblemen did homage, and the former had thhonour of kissing his Majesty’s hand. The Kinthen ascended the gangway with great alacrileaning slightly on the Marquisses of Lothian anConyngham, and was received on the platforby the Lord Clerk Register, who made his ohei:ance. The shouts of the multitude, the roarinof artillery, and the warlike notes of the trumpet!now announced the landing of King George IVupon Scottish ground.After his Majesty was rented in his carriageGlengary, on horseback, forced his way througlevery obstacle, and, advancing close to the royacarriage, exclaimed, “ Your Majesty is wekomito Scotland a salutation which was returned ba tnest gracious bow from the King. After thiKing had rested a few minutes in his carriagewhich was an open landau, hung very low, arrdrawn by eight beautiful bays, the drivers heirin state liveries, the procession moved slowly twards Edinburgh.The King, as he approached his ancient ciwas welcomed, not by cheers, but by one runnincheer along the whole line of procession frori:Leith to his palace. By means of the scaffoldinthe spectators along Leith Walk were, in a gr«measure, divided "into distinct but contiguoimasses. Bv each mass, as the King proceed®t he was saluted by a loud and cordial cheer. TheI, King was evidently much moved by these clemon-■ li strstions of aTection to his royal person Alongj the whole road he frequently raised his hat andI bowed to the people, whom he regarded withi fixed attention.As the procession advanced towards the city,the Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Town Coun¬cil of Edinburgh, proceeded from the house ofMr. Craufuird to the barrier, (from which wassuspended a variety «f flags ;) and immediatelyi ordered the gates to be shut, and then took up: ; their station upon a platform provided for their31 accommodation. In about ten minutes after, the! [Depute Lyon King at Arms, and the Usher of/lithe White Rod, preceded by two Heralds, gal-i loppedupto the gate; and, after a flourish oftrumpets, the Usher of the White Rod knockedthree times at the gate, which was answered bythe City Officer, to whom it was communicated,that his Majesty desired to visit his ancient cityof Edinburgh. An answer was made by thehamberlain, that the gates would be opened to?,i:his Majesty, which was immediately done ; whenslthe Depute Lyon King at Arms, and Usher ©f thefVhae Rod, along with the Heralds, returnedith the answer, and took their places in the pro--tession.Upon his Majesty’s carriage coming within theUbamer, it was drawn up, when the Lord Pro-3 mst, followed by the Magistracy, approacheds a ear to the south side of the royal carriage; and,After they had made their obeisances, his Majestyx rood up uncovered, and leaned towards the Lordhnovost, who, holding the cushion on which theaSCSI.8keys of the city were placed, addressed his Ma¬jesty ;— assuring him of their attachment, and re¬questing his acceptance of the keys of the city ofEdinburgh. His Majesty in a most graciousspeech replied, that the keys could not be placedin better hands, and dropped them upon thecushion.The Lord Provost and Magistrates then return¬ed to their carriages, and took their appointedplaces in the procession. Loud cheers from theimmense assemblage collected around the barrierfollowed this ceremony, by which the King wasformally received within his ancient city.The royal carriage, at the conclusion of theceremony, moved slowly forward about 50 yards,to the point at the end of Picardy Place, whereLeith Street on the left, and York Place on theright, are distinctly seen. The procession ad¬vanced along Picardy Place, YTork Place, andnorth and south St. Andrew’s Street When theroyal carriage entered St. Andrew’s Square, a dif-farcnt scene, but one .of equally unique characterpresented itself. On reaching Prince’s Street, anew scene presented itself to our monarch, whoexclaimed, “ How superb !” The procession nowdescended the Abbey-Hill, and in a few minuteswas in front of the palace.The King was received at the Palace by theDuke of Hamilton, Keeper of the Palace, whohad the honour to kiss hands ; the Duke of Mon-#trose, the Lord High Chamberlain, Lord Mel#ville, the Lord in Waiting, &c.Immediately on his Majesty being seated on. this throne, the Knight Marischal and his two Es« :quires, (who were ready, at the lower end of the';TO;Likijin ~9<:pom) advanced, bearing the regalia, towards theihrone, and ma«ing three reverences'; first, at the,!)lace where tliey v,ere .;stationed; secondly, at.middle of the^room ; and, thirdly, at the footif the throne. The Knight Marischal then (onmis knee) presented the crown, and the Deputyi lord Lyon of Scotland, in obedience to his Ma-, lie-sty's command, summoned the Duke of Ham-( Uon to receive it, (on his knee) from the KnightAlarischal, and he immediately took his stationj>n the right hand of the King. The Knight Mar-! :,schal then received from his Esquire the sceptre,Jnd presented it in like manner as the crown.—'he Deputy Lord Lyon then summoned lordrancis Levison Gower, as the representative of;]jhe Earl of Sutherland, who, on his knee, receiv-,d the sceptre frem the Knight Marischal, and!:bok his station on the left hand of the King —.w'he sword of state was in like manner presentedbnd delivered to the Earl of Errol, who took hisijjtation on the right hand of the King. Theiiilnight Marischal .then had the honour to kiss thefiling’s hasd, and retired with his two Esquires,Ipaking three reverences, to the lo*rer end of therom.Immediately afterwards, the Duke of Montrose! nnounced, that the Lord Provost and Magistratesif Edinburgh were in attendance to present anI tidress. The Duke, by his Majesty’s command,1 Ureduced the Lord Provost and Magistrates andj Council, who advanced with three reverences toie foot of the t’. 'one, when an address was readI y Mr. Cunningham, the senior City Clerk, and1-as graciously answered by his Majesty.On Friday, the 16th of August, the day afterI-10Kis landing, the King remained at Dalkeith-hnuseyand resigned himself to the simple recreations oFrural retirement. The reception which he hadmet with upon his landing, and the orderly anddecorous appearance of his Scottish subjects; the’;intellectual dignity of their manner, which regu¬lated, and, at the same time, grve a deeper toneto their enthusiasm, were the frequent themes ofhis Majesty’s conversation. The same evening, Lthe citizens of Edinburgh did honour to his Ma-Jj'testy’s arrival by a most brilliant and even £or-|geous illumination.. The streets were crowded !to excess, hut nothing could exceed the orderly |demeanour of the people, who moved about with fthe same serenity, end nearly the same ease, as |if in the enjoyment of an culinary promenade, j,The High Street presented a most joyous appear-}ance. Bands of boys paraded about with fiamingtorches; and groupes of sailors were observeddancing reels to the sound of the bagpipe. Inthe course of the evening, numberless rockets•were discharged from every quarter. About teno’clock, ‘salvos of cannon were discharged fromthe Castle, C ^ on-hill, and Salisbury Crags, LeithBattery, and tne chips of war in the reads; thesolemn-pauses between which were interruptedby fottx dejoie from the 13th end 66th regiments,drawn up in front of the Crags.On Saturday, the 17th of August, his Majesty*,according to previous announcement, held Ms first jlevee in liolyrood Ealace, the attendance! upctVwhich was most numerous an* splendid. 1 heItKing arrived at the Palace at a quarter before two:o’clock, having been only nineteen minutes on the:road between Dalkeith and Holyrood-house. I n11|rr.p!ement to the ccuntiy, hit Majesty wiipeare^.: complete Highland costume, made of the roy-:iiStuart tartan, which displayed his mait'y andlaceful figure to great advantage.J About a qu?rter past four, his Majesty took *us.ipparturein a carriage and four for Daikchh, ac-jittmpanied by the Duke of Dorset and the Mar-sis of Convngham. On getting into Id* carriage,s Majesty was surrounded by an immense con->urse of people, wlio expressed (heir duty and;*iFectiou by loud acclamations, and by the wavingi hats and handkerchiefs. His Majesty repliedthese testimonies of loyalty by waving his hand!id politely bowing to the people, who-continuedcrowd round the carriage, and to run after itflcomiderable way through the park.<‘!| On Sunday, the 18th of August, in the church-4 of Edinburgh, and in the churches of all theiArishes where the intelligence had been received,r.anks were offered up tor the sale arrival of hisijitajesty, in his ancient kingdom of Scotland, andie Divine blessing implored upon an event sodemorable, and so grateful to the feelings of hiscjeople. The day was passed by the King in pri-tcy.On Monday the 19th August, at half past two'clock,'his Majesty held a court and closet audi-nce at Holyrood Palace. The General Asaetn-y of tv e Church of Scotland, the Universities,id the Highland Society, presented addresses,id received answers.On Tuesday, the 29th of August, his MajestyId a drawing-room at the Palace, which wasitended by about five hundred ladies of the moststinguished rank, fashion, and beauty in Scot-1*2land. The entire novelty of such a scene, at leasin our metropolis, attracted an immense concourse iof spectators, the expression of whose curiosity:and interest could scarcely fail to enhance themingled emotions of satisfaction, anxiety, and ap- jprehension, depicted on the countenance of manyof tneir fair country-women, who were bornealong in unwonted splendour, to endure for the .fust time the glance of royalty, and receive, with -cjelfcoatr-but proud submission, the familiar salukitation which custom has prescribed for such anti '^evasion. *At an early hour on Thorsday, the 2i2d ofAugust, the city presented a scene of extraordi* -nary bustle, in consequence of the arrangementswhich had been agreed upon for his Majesty’sprocession to the Castle. The weather was pe*culiarly unpropitious.*, About one (/clock the different public bodies,incorporations, and trades* had taken up theground assigned to them, reaching from the pre^Cincts of the o.bbey to the Castle-hill; they werein lines two deep, and in many places three.Both sides of the streets were lined by dragoons1and cavalry, stationed in very extended order;ond the centre of the streets was kept entirelyclear of all passengers.The different Magistrates were seen at timesexamining the extended files which fined the.streets, and prepared to exert their authority, hag|that been necessary, in preserving Older. Wesilso obse*'ved fir Walter Scott, dressed in theWindsor uniform, walking up the centre of thestreet along with two other gentlemen, and, aske advanced,.casting a glance ol lefty entlrusiah^OfcHupon the rmrshalled bands of hardy burghers,whose military appearance must have been asso¬ciated, in his mind, with awful but proud vecol-•ilection?. A number of those assembled did hom-Ja'ge to the genius m the worthy Baronet, by loudlyr cheering him. The usual‘Celtic guard,' whichamounted daily in the Palace over the Regalia,• strengthened early in the forenoon by a detach-s ment of the grenadiers, had been formed into aguard of honour, under the command of Dr.^Mackintosh, one of the Captains of the Celts,:S who, after receiving the Knight Marischal withrproper honours, escorted the Regalia, carried by3 the Knight Marischal and his esquires, into thei (King’s closet, where they awaited his Majesty’siiWrival. The gu^rd was countermarched, andslidrawn up on each side of the door, to be in rea-r jdiness to attend his Grace the Duke of Hamilton,dwho soon appeared, bearing the Crown of Scot-tiland on a crimson-velvet cushion. On the ap-Qiproach of his Grace, the guard filed to the rightbpnd left, in order of procession, the two rear files.'‘wheeling up to close the rear ; and the whole thenoproceeded to the front of the Palace. The Crownii;?eing propeily adjusted, the Duke mounted his. iiiorse just as his Majesty entered his state car-^iage-v ; About a quarter past two o’clock, the proces-ujion moved ftom the Palace at a slow pace, whichas quickened as the procession advanced, owing1 o the state of the weather. His Majesty was!■ ressed in a Field Marshal’s uniform, and lookedi: xtremely well, and in excellent spirits.1 It would be vain to attempt a description ofate feelings of the multitude as the regalia ©f414Scotland passed before their eyes, carried trium¬phantly by the ancient nobles ot the land, whoseancestors had often fought and bled for that in¬dependence of which they were the sacred andvenerable symbols. Upon the crown, carried bythe premier peer of S«otland, all eyes were con¬centrated; and the hearts of all filled and throb¬bed with patriotic emotions, which were expres¬sed in boisterous cheers, as they surveyed thesame diadem that had invested the brows of theroyal Bruce—of his warlike descendants—of theloyely and unfortunate Mary. The cheers thathailed the tegalia were repeated with increasedenthusiasm, accompanied by the waving of hand¬kerchiefs from every window and balcony, as hisMajesty a Ivaneed, who acknowledged the salu¬tations of 1m people in the most gracious man¬ner. When the carriage of his Majesty reachedthe Net her how, six beautiful girls, dressed inwhite, with blue sashes across their shoulders,from which depended the St Andrew’s cross, andtheir heads adorned with wreaths, proceeded be¬fore the royal carriage, and strewed the way withflowers.When the King arrived at the barrier-gate, healighted from his carriage on a raised platform,covered with crimson cloth, where the Lord HighConstable and Lord Cathcait were stationed toreceive him. 1 he keys of the Castle were thenrendered to his Majesty, by Lieutenant-GeneralSir Alexander Hope, the Lieutenant-Governor,accompanied by Major-General Sir Lhomas Brad¬ford, Commander of the Forces, besides a nu¬merous body of officers belonging to the garrison,iiis Majesty having returned the keys, walked15. lit'ith a firm step slong the drav.’hridlge, till com -iing to the inner-gate, he stepped into anothercarriage, which stood waithrg, the grenadier com¬pany of the GG h reg;ment t'orming his guard ofi'icnour. 'I he procession moved slowly throughd|he winding passages of the Castle, till it came0 the half-moon battery, where were erected two’(jvlatforms, raised one upon the other, with a stair; fading up to them. The King ascended the up-• ,>er platform, and presented hirr.ce’f to the viewThis admiring subjects. At this moment a royali alute was fired from the guns on the rampart*,bind the bauds played “ God save the King.” On'descending from the platform, the King proceed-! d to the Governor’s house, which was elegantlyji tted up for his reception.His Majesty having regained his carriage ate barrier-gate, the procession returned to thealace by the Earthen Mound, Prince’s Street,e Regent’s Bridge, and New Road, along thehole of which an astonishing multitude patientlyaited his approach,' and whose loyal greetingset him at every step.1 If, as was complained by some, the Highlandtart of the Scottish population was pressed too■j luch upon his Majesty’s notice, the fault wasnply redeemed by a grand cavalry review, whichook place on Portobello sands, upon Friday, the3d of A ust, of the whole volunteer cavalryid yeomanry of the principal lowland districts.A7e may venrurh to’say, that a finer body of men,rptter equipped and mounted, or, under .lie samesadvantages, better disciplined, never beforessed under the review of his Majesty, A squa-en of the 7th drngooa guards kept the grounddear.mThe othef troops of the 5ine present were tt-the royal artiHery, the 3d dragoon go rds, andScots Greys. The, volunteer troops werp—the iGhsgow troop of volunteer cavalry ; the Peebles- itshire and Selkirkshire yeomanry cavalrythe 3.Fifeshire troop of lancers: the Fifeshire, Her-1wickshire, East Lothian, West Lothian, Rox¬burghshire, and Mid-Lothian yeomanry cavalry.'About twelve o’clock, the whole corps, in mun-| -her above 3000, were formed in a line, extend- h)iug upwards of a mile in open order; the regulars,commanded by Colonel Holmes of the 3d dra¬goon guards, and the volunteer corps by Sir James |Baird, Bart, of Saughtonha’d, both officers offservice and experience, and highly esteemed inthe army, with Major-General Sir Thomas Brad¬ford, and his staff, stationed in front, ready toreceive his Majesty.The approach of his Majesty was announcedby hoisting the royal standard upon the quay atPortobello. About twenty minutes past oneo’clock, his Majesty arrived on the field in a closecarriage, drawn by four horses, accompanied bythe Duke of Dorset, Lotd Graves, Lord F.Conynghapi, and Sir A. Barnard, and precededby another carriage and four, containing mere of j>his suit. The arrival of his Majesty was hailed,by the loud acclamations of the assembled multi¬tude; and a royal salute was immediately firedfrom a battery established on the pier, the colours;lowered to the ground, and the pipers playing the! Q.Prince’s Welcome. | ::Upon alighting from his carriage, the King was:received by the Marquis of Lothian, Lord Lieu- .tenant of the county, on foot, who afterwards:4f7i tended his Majesty on horseback, during his&y on the ground.UThe King, as scon as he alighted, mountede fine lighc-grey horse, purchased from Cornetijilman; and, being joined by Sir Thomas Brad-Ird and his staff, proceeded from the right alongr front of the line, guarded by a detachmentthe Greys, and returned from the left, be-een the front and rear tanks, in ooen order.:! After passing his Majesty, in excellent , style,Jch column rode off at quick time; after whiche whole again took up their original ground,. id formed into line. The troops then closedtir ranks, and advanced in line to within fiftyds of his Majesty, then halted, and gave alend salute, the bands playing “ God save the;>g-”Mdis Majesty returned in his open carriage, with!,e same attendants who accompanied him, tojaUteith-house,' where he arrived at ten minutesI fore four o’clock, and afterwards dinpd alone,i his return, the King passed some warm en-miums upon the appearance of the troops ; andis heard to say to the Duke of Dorset, that herisver was at a review with which he was more) lighted.: In the evening the King attended a ball, giventthe Peers of Scotland, in the Waterloo Hptelsembly Rooms. He remained only a shortiae present, ^nd returned to Dalkeith-houseiiout a quarter past ten o’clock.i< On the forenoon cf Saturday, the 24'lh ofijagust, the Regalia of Scotland were earnedc >m Holyrood Palace, and re-deposited in theit own-roem of the Castle. The procession was19received at the barrier by a guard ef honourthe 77th regiment; the Lieutenant-GovernorColonel Bromhead of the 77th, commanding thigarrison; Brigtcie-Major Lindsay, &c. Adnnttance to the garrison was demanded in the usualform ; which being granted, the procession moveon to the Crown-room, preceded by the abovofficers, uncovered.' The guard presented arrthe band playing “ God save the King.” T!<Crown was then carried by the Knight Marischalthe sceptre by the Honourable J. M. Stcuarf, arw'lthe sword by Captain Ferguson, Keeper of thiRegalia.On the same day, ® splendid banquet was givet;to his Majesty, in the Parliament.house, by .tVLord Provo=t, Magistrates, and Fown Council othe city of Edinburgh. The great Hall, as w,.formerly observed, was fitted up for the occasioi .in a style of superior magnificence, ihe platform, upon which the King’s table was raisedwas covered with crimson cloth; and beneat!were six tables, in three distinct ranges, extending to the north end of the room. The two nichsin which the Lords Ordirwf sit were fittedas balconies; in the one, on the sou:h side of tln|door, a vocal band %vas stationed ; and there alsogentlemen connected with the press found aocommodation provided for them: in the othupon the north si.'e, Gow’s celebrated instrumtal band was placed. \ military band occumeoa position at the north end, immediately undeithe city arms. The room was lighted with thratlarge and magnificent lustres, running along, witHthree smaller lustres on each side, ail dependingfrom the roof. Fo.gr beautifully gilded lustret] 9i -vere suspended behind the King’s table, and onei kt each corner of the north end of the room.At a quarter past six, the arrival of the King^was announced, when therLord Provost and Ma-• jjistrates, and part cf the King’s ruite, proceededIo the carriage and received his Majesty, whomhey accompanied to the Advocates’ Library,About half-past six Bailie Henderson announcedto the Lord Provost, who remained with his; Majesty in the Library, that dinner was servedup. His Majesty immediately arstered the Hall,' the band playing “ God save the King,” and thei company standing tc receive him. His Majesty,iwho was dressed in a field-marshal’s uniform,•was conducted to his chair of state; and, as he^advanced along the room, bowed most graciouslyko all around him,—stopping several times, and.) addressing a few words to some of the company.(Grace was said by the very Reverend Ptincv-Baird. During dinner, his Majesty converj-in the most free and affable manner, some-les with the Lord Provort, and at other time#th the Earl of Errol. He seemed to be in ex-lent spirits. His Majesty partook of turtle andruse soups, stewed carp and venisarn, in the;t course ; and, in the second course, of grousei apricot tart. During dinner he drank moselle:1 a little champaigne, and claret during the restthe evening. He made u&e of glasses 200irs old, of a very massive and antique form,lich had been furnished for his table by Siralter ScottAs soon as the King had dined, a silver basin,ataining rose-water, was brought to his liajes-by William Howison Crauturd, younger of20Braehead and Craufurdl.md, who, in right of hismother, as proprietrix of .Braehead, in the coun¬ty of Mid-Lothian, claims this privilege,—theservice performed being the ancient tenure bywhich the estate of Braehead is held. He w igattended by Masters Charles and Walter Scott,the one a son, the other a nephew, of Sir WalterScott, Bart, as pages, attired in splendid dressesof scarlet and white satin : the former holding asilver ewer, and the other a salver, with a dam¬ask napkin of Scottish manufacture, and of thefinest texture. In offering the basin, Mr. Howi-son Criufurd knelt down to his Majesty, whojafter he had dipped his fingers in the water, andwiped them with the napkin, acknowledged theservice with an affability and grace peculiarly hisown.A great number of healths and toasts weredrunk. About ten o’clock, the company beganto retire ; and they broke up about twelve. Allwere delighted with the evening’s entertainment.His Majesty seemed to have been highly gratifiedwith his reception, and with the ardent demon¬strations of duty and affection which he receivedfrom the highly-respectable company assembledaround him.On the forenoon of Sunday, the 25th of Aug¬ust, the King attended divine service in the HighChurch of St. Giles’s. The seat occupied by theKing was that which is'allotted to his Majesty’sCommissioner to the General Assembly, in frontof the gallery, and immediately opposite the pul¬pit. His Majesty, at a quarter past eleven, set gout in a close carriage for ehurch from HolyroodPalace, (having arrived only a few minutes prer.215:iously,) and where a great -multitude were as-Jembled. He was accompanied in his carriage bylie Duke of Dorset, and Lord Gienlyon, theijlord in waiting. The appearance of the streetit this time was extremely imposing and charac-.ristic of a Scottish Sabbath. As his Majesty: assed, the people rereremly took off their hats,at not a voice was raised to hail his appearance!here did not feign in tiie most sequestered glen;:f Scotland, a more profound stiliaess than wasvnw observed in the heart of the city of Edin-.iVrgh'i eived by the ministers and elders arrayed in ae within the church door. His Majesty, who1 a sealed packet in his hand, inquired at Prin-al Baird where was the usual receptacle for thergregation depositing their offerings ? On be-4IK told by the Principal, that it had been remov-a tins occasion, as an impediment to his Ma-’s passing j the King appeared to regret theimstar.ee; and putting the packet; which wasrsed, *« ()ne Hundred Pounci? from his Ma-into the Principal’s hand, he desired thataments might be applied, with the rest ofrollection, for the benefit of the poor,he officiating minister on this occasion wasLampnt, the Moderator of the General As-s( >!y, who commenced the service by givingthe first version of the JOOth' Psalm. Hisesty lifted a Psalm Book, and siood duringreading; and ins example was followed byrest ot the congregaaon. After a most flo¬at and impressive prayer, the minister adopt-as the sutjea of his discourse, the 3d and 4thtj On f is Majesty’s entry t» the church, he was22verses of the 3d chapter of the epistle to the Co-fossians. The sermon of the reverend Doctorwas enriched by a number of sublime passagesof Scripture, and thrcugliout breathed a spirit olthe most exalted piety. The good taste of the ipreachsr was conspicuous in making his applica¬tions entirely generai ; and the discourse was moreimpressive from its not being read. His Majestyjoined earnestly in the devotional exercises anlistened to the discourse throughout with thmost profound attention. When the service waconcluded, his M jcsty slightly bowed to thePreacher.As the King proceeded to the Palace, the peo-.1pie observed the same reverential silence which,they had done on the previous part of the day' His Ma:-‘8tv left Holyrood exactly at one o’clocktwo uobieinen being in the carriage with him.In the evening of Monday the 26th, a grant jhall was given to his Majesty in the Assembly iRooms, by tire Caledonian Hunt, of which insti jtution his Majesty had condescended to becomtthe patron. The scene altogether was one of urncommon animation and splendour; and noncontributed more to the hilarity of the compan;than his Majesty, who was in excellent spiritsThe King left the assembly at eleven o’clockbowing to all as he retired.On Tuesday evening his Majesty honoured thiTheatre with his presence. The arrangement;and decorations were most splendid,—the aud:ence was overflowing,—and his Majesty in thhighest spirits. The piece performed was Rc*Roy. Mr. Mackay, celebrated as Bailie NicJarvle, phyed the part with even more than h'±3i;ual humour- The King retired from the BoJc.bout eleven, and even at that hour, a numerouscowd were Waiting; to cheer him as he passed inclose carriage to Dalkeith-house.11 His Majesty, on Wednesday the 23th of Au-ust, visited Newbattie Abbey, the seat of theiilarquis of Lothian. As his Majesty drove up:ie avenue, he was loudly cheered by the Mar¬ais's numerous tenantry, who lined each side ofImmediately on his Majesty’s alighting from» s carriage-, ‘-God save the King’ was played byi.r, M'Grath, who attended on the occasion,; non a very superior organ. His Majesty was! inducted to the dining-room, where a very choiceid splendid collation was prepared.His Majesty, having graciously condescendedt visit the Earl of Hopetoun, had selected Port.;|igar, near Queonsferry, as the most eligibleice of embarkation, from its immediate vicinityHopetoun-house.(His Majesty, about twenty minutes past elevennidock, prepared to bid adieu to Dalkeith-house,i e walked down stairs firmly, and observingftrs Povar, housekeeper to the Duke onduccleuch,W walked up close to h<jr, his countenance ex¬cessive of the greatest benignity, and said, <<MrsIfiyar, I must return you, and all of you, my,1st thanks lor your great kindness and attention.ii|e have wanted for nothing. iTo have wishedor desired more, would have been unreason-adding, “ I shall never forget the kindnesslave received, May God bless you all !!!” Theseire the last words spoken by his Majesty onving Dalkeith-house.hortly aLer his Majesty got on board the24•Royal George, preparations were made for weighing anchor. At half past five o’clock, the roysquadron having all sails set, passed the norside of Inchkieth; and at six o’clock a salute wgiven from Leith battery, the Castle, Calton-hiand Salisbury Crags, announcing that the roy.squadron was fairly at sea.On Friday forenoon, the royal squadron paed Whitby, and a royal salute was fired from tbattery. On the morning of Satuiday the 31it p'ssed Yarmouth Roads, through an immenfleet of boats which had put from shore to hthe presence of his Majesty. At twenty-fivenutes past four o’clock, on Sunday afternoon, t!King again set his foot on British ground.As his Majesty passed through Greenwich,was i-eceived with the shouts of the people anid tlwaving of handkerchiefs. The King alightedCarlton Palace at a quarter past five o’clock.-When his Majesty’s arrival was known, the beof St. Martin’s, and other churches of the mettpolis, vvere rung at intervals for the remainderthe evening,We do hot profess to have obtained inforrrtion of all the charitable acts of his Majesty dtling his residence in Scotland-, and it is proballthat many of these will never become knovrnjthe public ; but his munificent donations to l!different charitable institutions of the city,long endear him to the-citizens of Edinburgh.FINIS.