The Very Old Zing Cf^ . /, ’ %THE' 1 ■ '■ • ' ; V r 'Roman Nobleman;’or, the cruelBLACKAMOORIn the wood,PETERHEAD:Printed and Stid wbdesak by P, Buchan1817.THICXUEL BLACKAMOOR.IN Rome Mobieman did weJa Virgin oigreat fame,A fairer creature ndVer'was,nor did dame ityryrejYame.By her he had ttro children fair,wfeeie beauty did excel.And were their parents ohly joy,they lov’d them \)o:h fo well.This lord he lov'd t® hunt the buckthe rvgcr and the boar.And Rill for Iwiftnefs always tookwith him a Blackamoor.Which Blackamoor within the v;«odhis lord he did offend;F#r which he did him then correct,.in hopes he would amend.The day it drew unto an end,then homeward they did hsfte,Where with his Lady he did reftuntil the night had paft.Then in, the morning he did rife,and ott his fervaats eail,A hunting to provide to go,ftraight they were ready" alhCaufe of his toil, hi«emrent him not fo go, .Alas! good Lady, ihcn quoth he,y art thou grieved fo?Content thyfcH', I will returnto thee with fpeed tigriihGood father, quoth the fiaie babes,with us here rtill remain.Farewel, dear children, I will goand fomething to you buy;But they herewith net ftill content,aloud began to cry.Their mother took them by the hand,faying come along with me,I Unto the higheft tower, whereyour father you fhall fee.!The Blackamoor perceiving nowwho then did (land behind,iHis lord a hunting to be gone,began to call to mind,My mafter he did me correct,my fault not being great;Now on his wife I‘U be revenged,he ftiall not me intreat.The place was moated round about,the bridge he did updraw.The gates he bolted very ftrong,of none he flood ip awe;He up into the tower went,the Lady being there.4Vc hen (hp Caw his countenance grim,flic ftraight began to fear.But now my trembling heart it quakes,to think, that I muft wrntejMy fenfes all beginio faint,my foul it doth affright.Yet I muftmake an end of this,which I hate here begun, r »,Which will melt the hard eft heartbefore that I have done.The wretch unto this Lady went,and her with fpeed did fillHis luft forthwith to fathfy,, .'' -his mind for to fulfil. ; ;Ike Lady (He amafed was,to hear the villain fpeak. ; ,Alas! qudth fhe what will Iwith grief my heart do break.With that he took her in his arms,{he ftraight for help did ciy;Content yourfelf, I.ady quoth he,your hufbaad is not r*igh;The briclge is drawn, the gats is (hut,therfore come lie wiih me,Or elie-1 do pvotefl and vow,thy butcher t will be.The chrvfhl tears run from her Cheher children cried ariitm,5.Ajid fought to help itsdi J-mM- dqar*but alasl all was. in vain.For the egregious, ijlthy sogue,her hands behind her bound.And then perforce with al! hi* firengthhe threw her to Uie ground.With that ^leifiirlejc^, her childfen <;rye«and fuch a poife did make,lire townfmetHheai-ing their kricnt, ‘did feek^heir part to take;But all in vaih, no way they foundto aid the Jadys peed, ,,Who cried to flicoi .rnoft piteouny,.oh help, oh help v-iih fpeecji ' - vSeme ran into theibreh wide,his lord home for to call, , «.And they that flood di f fore lamentthe gallant I.adys fa!!.With fpeed his lord came pofting home,but could no; enter in;liis Lacly‘s cries did |>ierce his iicaitjto call he did begin:Hold thy hand thou fav?.ge M»or,to huttlierclo forbear.Or elfe be lure iff So live,wild horfes ftiall thee tear. ,Wirfvlfijt-^hd:rogue ran loathe wall,, ;t* ,he baying had- his..will,6Ami brought cue ebiLJ uruler his armhis deareft-blood to fpili,'I he child feciyglus father there,to him for help did call,0 lather help uvy mother dear,we (hail be killed all. ;Then fell the lord upok his knees,and did the Moor intreatTo fave the life of his poor child,whofe fear by then was great.But the vi'e wretch the little childby both the beds did take,.And dcJW its brains again ft the wall, vwhile parbnts hearts did qu’ake-1 hat being dead he ftraightway irmthe ether child to fetch,And pJuck'd.it from its mothers breaft.moft like i cntel wretch:^ntoone hanSTa knife he brought,the child into the other,And holding it over tke wall, .laid, thus ftull die thy mother.With that he cut the throat of it. >to its fatlv.r he did call, . ; ,To look how ht tire throat had cut, ;that down the brains did fall t .ihi$ done, he throws. u,o‘er the vaU, 7'into the moat fo deep;Which made the father wring his hands,and grievoirfly to weep.Then to the Lady weni this rp^ue,who was near tiead with fear.Yet the rije wretch inoft crudydid drag her by the hair.And drew her to-the very wall,which whe» her lord did fee.Then prefently he criecfom,and fell apon his hnee-Quoth he if thou wilt hut fare her life*,,whom I do hold fo dear,I will forgive thee all tftats pafl,tho‘ they concern rjie near.IO fare her life I thee beleech,O fave her life 1 pray,'And f will give ;hee what thou will,demand of me this day.'Well quoth the INloor, I do reijfcdthe moan thou doft make,ilf thou wilt grant what I vquelf.Ml fave her for thy hike.,0 fave her life, arid now demand^ cf me what thing thou wilt:,Cut off thy nofe, and not'one dropof her blood ihall be fpiltl* hen did this noble lord takea knife into his hsutd,/ »8 ' . , . ..And iltere his nofe did quite cut off.In place where he did ft and.New 1 have bought my La'dy*s life,then to the Moor did call:Then take her, qii&b the wicked logo?and dov.h he let her fell,which when this galfeht lord did fee,his fenfes all did fail,j ho'' many fought to' lave his life.yet all could not prevail,when as-the Moor did fee h'ifel udi<f>then he did laugli amain ,At them who for his gadddf TorHand lady did complain. ^ .Quoth he, I know yovWl tchiirc rnc,if that yc could rrieget;Befall your threats ! do not fear,nor yet rega’id one ^/hit. .wild horfes my bccly tear,I know it to bje true;But I'll prevent ye a of that pain^then down hirnfelf he threw: ^Too good a death fef fuc^ A wretch,a villain voitioi feaYt.And thus dotfh end as fad a tlit'ejas ever you iflicl hear.F 1 N J S.