(](3I!(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3G(3(3(3(3(3(3(3(3kEVERLASTING LOVE OF GOD,ANDMARY’s GOOD CHOICE:BEING THE SUBSTANCE OFTWOSERMONS,ONJohn iii. 16,17. & Luke x 42.Preached by the LateRev. Mr. JOHN WELCH,Sometime Minifler of the Gospel at Atr,FALKIRK: -PRINTED BY T.JOHNSTON.1816.$ kL LI BRa0F SCOTLAN 1£0, fvjASERMONON _John iii. 16, 17./'or G od Jo loved the world, that be gavebis only begotten Son, that wbofoevcrbelievetb in bim, Jbould not perifht buthave everlafting UJ'e.i he Lord’s love anJ care to us hajs de¬clared itfelf many ways, and ei'pecially inthis point, that this privy conference withNicodernas, fp ken at this time f r ourconfolation, it hath pleafed the L-rd to put «it up in’regiller, that it-may be the c nfu-lation «;f many ; and fuppofe it was privy,and in the night, yet it hath plealed.theHoly Ghoft to bear record of it, that all, believers, to the end of the world, mayhave their coni lation in it.TNow, in thefe verfts r* ad, is,. f I. The fountain of our falvation, The; L ve of God.II. There is the means whereby he hasm-ered it, which ic, by the fending of his-Sen to be humble.fl and glorified.HI. The means to get.Chrid, that is,h>y Lith on'y. ‘ ■ |( 3 )IV. The benefit and conquef! of cur faith*which is, Salvation.For this end did the Father love us, thathe might five us, and give unto us eternallife. For this caufe came the Son dawnfrom heaven, and for this caufe it was hewent to heaven, that he might give useternal life ; and for this caufe the Fathercaufes us believe, and this is the fruit andend of all believing, to-wit, eternal iife.-'-So it remains to tell what are the benefitsthat believers get in the Son.Now, leaving all that has been fpokenconcerning this m) fiery of faith, as for thebenefit that faith gets, in a word, it is Sal¬vation. I know it gets more benefit beforeit will plant thee in Chrifi, and make theeone with him ; it will make thee flefii ofhis fiefh, and bone of his b.ne; it willmake thee fit in heaven with him : It willcruJfy thee with Gnri't, ana it will juftifythee in Cbrift ; it will get thee remiffionin his blood, and it will cleanfe thy heart;for it is that bufh < f hvlf p that will fprinklethat blood on thy foul, F,X‘>dus xii. 22.—Faith, in a wojd, will make thee to live inpeace, and die in peace at the laid, and willput thee in the peaceable pofFtfli m f end-lefs glory 1 If ye get not that former bench'-, 'ye will not get the lafi; and when th-mgettefi the lafi, then thy faith ft all ccafe:( 4 )So, except th^c^r.junftion be made betweenthy f,ul and Cnrilt, by the H ly Ghcft, »ndnnlefs thou getteil the Spirit of adoption,foitb wiii never bring thee to the laft point;and if it bring thee to the firfl, it fiiall bringthee to the Isft. S ■ faith begins in thee'Hfe,but it makos nothing complete till the re-furreQ.ion, when foul and body fhall becaught wi bin the clouds. So look whatfaith works'in thy heart; for if thy livingfaith have pot a work of grace here in thefoul, it fliall never have a work cf glpryhereafter.Now, the la 11 thing which faith brings,which is Salvatkn, it hands in two p ints.i/;. In an immunity and freedom fr< mperdition.idly, in fruition and pcfTefli'n •>{ eternallife ; and b. th thefe we have here. Now,I will tell y n what b> th theie are. Whatis the caufe th*t makes the world auntfo little oi Chril\ and ; f the U\te cf G din Chrift ? It is this. They know not whatit is to exift for eve mi. re, and what it isto live jor evennere ; f r if they knew this,they would elkem more • f Chrift. and - fthe 1 ve of God, than ever they did : H'i:-fotver belit&ei, Jhzll r.ot pcrijb> i h.en it is• cenein, that there is a perdition, there isa hell, herein is endless perditi .n. Whoso-ey r believes, Jlsall not per'jb. rl here is life( 5 )after this; tberfi is a hell and a heaven tand howf.ever it be that the god of thisworld has blinded the moft part, and thedevil has bewitched men and women, yetit is certain that there is a Gad, that there*;is a hell, and a perdition : So it is certainthat (here is everiahing life. The genera-ticfi before, if ye could hear them, theywould ail tell you this; fome in endlesspleafure, fome in endless torment; for thev-are all g ne before you, to be preachersto you. i£ow, v/herein (tinds this perdi¬tion and perilling? For it is toe ift. punt51 1 am minded to tell y^u. Whereinli all life Hands.I As for the firll, there are tlirpe thingsin it: ift. The want of joy. idly. Thepresence of pain. "2dly\ The eternity ofli the lofs f joy, and the eternity of the pre -] fence of ain. Think on them all.Firft, is the loss of the presence ofJ G. d, th; c the faint-; and angels have inH heaven', withit. gates of the New Jeru •ilfalem. Th u mayeft not eat cf that treei of life ; thou mayefl not drink of the - iversof the waters of life ; thou may eft not drinkof the rivers of the waters of life ; thour mayefl not drink in that company of" faint ;* and angels, that hjfl: not believed in theiS u of G d here; So if the.re werc no otherhell, but to be deprived of the blessed fociecy( 6 )of the gk-rifl'id faints and angels with God,it were hell enough.Secund/j, C nsidtr, that no excufe willbe admitted thf>t day. Friendfhip will dothee no good, propht-fylng and preachingwill do thee no good. The .ther thingthat augments it, is the ’ rs of happiness.An unknow n benefit, when it is loll, Ihallnot bring meikle pain \v;th it; but a feenbenefit, a j >y v hich yc might have gotten,if ye could have believed, fhail augmentyour pain (vcrrderfuliy : As the pain ofthe rich glutton had not been fo great, ifhe htsd n i 'feen Lszar.ns in Abrah rn’ab f m. S ■ the exclusion, aitd the barringof the yate on the milb--Hever, on the fouland carcase for evenuorr, this is the lirstin the perdition; therefore the tribunalmust be in the air. for thcu ihall never winst the y are of that kingd-m. xAnd if therewere nvt another torment but the want of.-these j >ys in heaven f r evermore, it weretorment enough. Rut if there were nomore., vhat rack T all this want of joy,and rugging and reparation of the foul andliody from the presence of God artd hisfaints, irr v h' m is all-fufficient joy ? Howgrievous lb a 11 that be to thee ? How iil-willhad Peter to come down fr- m the mount,trow ye ? Ye would think it hard to he.tugged and feparated from a friend, andI 7 )mors from your own children. • O! butwhat is that, in comparison to be feparatedfrom, (o loving a God ? But this is not all,the depriving of endless joy ; (now, thisfhould cause you know the necessity cfbelieving ;) but, besides this, there is aneternity of pain. To lose heaven, is kgreat matter ; but to be cast into hell, isgreater! To want the place is great, butto be dung into prison is greater. To losethe pleasure of heaven is great, -but to becall into the lake of fire and brimfhne,where the worm never dies, and the firenever g es out. into fuch a fire, that theviolence thereof fuch, that there is no pati¬ence to bear it; for it is f ■ great and painful,that if ta u hadst ten thousand worlds, thruI would give them all fir one drop of coldwater to cord thy tongue ; a fire that lh»Unever be flockened, fi>r it fhallburo «s longas Gjd lives. Again, That fire lhall notconfume the carcase and fetifi but it isa -furnace that lhall burn for evermore 1and thou fhalt have none to keep the damesof that fire from thy conscience and carcase;and there fhall be ibe wrath of God, andthe vials full of his indignation, poured cutContinually up; y thy foul, that it fhal! getno leave to G k for mercy, and put effait•hope of help, or ending of . that pain-Besides fib;’, tiiere are these particolarsaud circumstances that sg^r.avate this per■.' < 35ditlcn, tlierS Is milling there but confuinlngfire ; no company but devils; no light buts mirk prison and darkness, bound hand2nd foot; z death ay beginning, but never,mill have an end; a worm that ay fhallgnaw thy conscience! Again, It werefome esse, if any part uf the foul or b«dywere free of torments; but th^re fhallnever be a part of thy body that fhall mthe filled with.torments, and never a face tyof thy foul kut it lhall have its wn t r-ments; thy eye, that thou vv uldest not opento beh' ld the-glory of God, ! Hiail cim-pelkd to look on that ugi\' fight! thy ear,{hat thou- wo uldest not apply to hear teewice of G d, it fhvtl be compelled to hearthe howling.and blaspheming of devil -ndreprobates ; thy' mind and understanding,which thou abusedst in this life, Iliad havetheir owu torments.Thirdly, There is an eternity of pain,and an eternity of loss. Ye kn vr, werethe traveller or ntariner never fo wearied,yet the hope of an end will bring him c >n-i’olatir n ; but when tKm knoWest.thy painis endless, and when thou re u mberestthe eternity of thy punishment, and thatas 1 ng as God live?., y ur psin Oiall last,this.wiH.fpo.il you of all consolauyn!t( 9 )The next p'int is, What it is to haveeternal life ; and wherein it (lands ?It (lands in three things (hartly. But,I know, it is a thing that cannot be under-*flood; none can measure the glory of thatkingdom, and uhe joys of that life; for hethat faw it, and was ravifhed with the light,he (aid he faw things unutterable. Alwife,there are three! things in it:Firf r, The glory cf the plac« ; not anhouse made with hands, but that New Jeru-falem that has twelve ports that are uf pre¬cious ft nes, the Ilreets of g Id, aad thetemple of it, God himself lI •' - '• . [ ‘ ■Secondlyy The fruition of it, G .d himseft,that fhall be all in all to thee! And, asyou fee a drop of water mixed with a hogs¬head -of wine, it taints the taste ; fo all - urinfirmities being fl owing in the ocean-seacf G->d’s glory, ihall be fwaJlswed up !•I Thirdly, And last of all. There is anunspeakable peace and j <v f,T eveAiv e!No more fin there; no more tr -ubl-i to ere;no m re tears there; bir c-.ntemp' :.-vi m.and j y for evermore I and th >u ocupiodia beiv Iding Cod eternally, and runqft .gto tne fountain of the love of that blessedG,d? and wondering thereat eternally !( 10 )Now, ye fee the first benefit ye fna’I getby believing : 1//, A freedom from endlessperdition, idly, The fruition of eternal life.The end wherefore I have ip ken if thesetwo, are,Flrji, That ye may fee the necessity ofbelieving ; and that ye that will not believe,nay quit you of eternal life, and make youfor that endless pain.Secondly, To fet before you fo highlyye fh'mld count of the S n of God; thatwhen there was nothing that could redeemthee from hell, and conquer heaven to thee,but only his blood, and that thou mayeftbe acquitted what thou fhouldest count ofthe love of God to thee, that fent his onlybegotten Son to die for thee. Now, I willapply, and fo I will end.Why fliauld yon think that word cr.v uk,ordinary or extraordinary,\vere needful f rdelivering you from perishing, and givingyou everlasting life? F r, if less thingscould have d ne the turn, it would havebeen done? I kn w the Lord is merciful,and loth to destroy his owe buildings, mdto pluck up the plants which he has planted ;fo, if the word could have dvne it, the workhad not been done. These tilings that arefallen out, are not only warnings t«> others,but they are warnings to make y n believe.Therefore think nos that they are greaterr(II )finners than ye; for except ye repent, yelhall perifh also with the Hke judgment.I‘hive not now lime to*, commit to youhow many things I designed, 5;nce I camehere, God has added to nis word for ourwalking. It is not long lines there wic notan house among you, but there was forceof you bed-lick; and fome of you had rather:aid d>wn yoiir life, than have conveyed.hem to the grave. N.->w, the m re thisbe told, yet it is not the less. What needwas ye in, when ye would b: content tohave wanted your whole flock f r half-c-year’s provision ? I leave this to your ownconsciences. Likewise, how the Lord hasguarded you round about, and gave com¬mand to the pest, that it fliould not come 1near to your port,’ when he fcattered itover other congregations ; and made menand women cry, I have no more b f onehundred merits, take it all, and give melesve to take but ore handful of wat r.The fkallet-trenchers in Glasgow and Edin¬burgh, they may bare you witness. I wcwell ye had as great fins of incess&nwhoredoms, as they had. What other ex¬traordinary things Lll out, I have notwill to tell you; but if I would (hewyou it, ye would fay, He will fpare one,and fhew feverity to another ; and if therewere no more but that mod woman, fivert rt( I2 )might be a preacher to us all: May notGod foon bereave us of our wits, andmake us as bea«ts, as he did Nebuchad¬nezzar? And these two works that havefallen out this week, one in the night*and another in the noon-tide of the day,he will have all these to cry to you, thatye fliould cry to the Lord, and fay, Lordkeep me and my children, that we getnot a doleful wakening! Thou mayefl risein the morning, but who can tel! with howholeful a heart thou mayest He down inthe evening, that ye may know wh«tneed ye have of a protection.I cannot tell what these thick-fpurringwarnings mean; I wot well God has awarning for you in this congregation andtown, as well as your uearest*neighbours.So I fee the Lord will have us either re¬newed to God, by true repentance, in time,©r else he will do all wrong with us.—Now, I beseech you, wit well th^t youreconcile you and your children to God,ere you lie down ; and let them rot llepout of the door in the morning, till yehave commended yon and them to God.Now,-to him tlmt is able to protedt you,in foul and body, Father, Son, and HolyGboft, be praise, honour, and glory, forevermore. Amen.M M( ' a{ *3 )Mary's Good Choice,SERMONONLuke x. 42.•"-‘'Mary hath chosen that good party whichJball not he taken away from her.AIjjLXS ChriH did fhev himself loving toLazarus and his fister, in that he raised■ Lazarus from the death of the body, andll then from the deeth of the foul: So didi his listers here {hew their thankful mindsunto Chrifl; again; the one by receivingf him into her house, and the other by en¬tertaining of him into her heart. As hewas God, he was entertained by Mary;and as he was man, he was received ofMartha. They both desired to entertain"our Saviour, as Jacob and Esau desiredto please their aged father. Gen. xxvihBut Mary made choice of the better part,and was preferred before her fister, asJacob fped fooneft of moft dainty venison,and prevented his brother of the blessing:( 14 )And although the cares of Martha, in herentertaining of Christ, ba not to be mis-liked of, yet Mary’s diligence in hearingCh rist’s dodtrine, is of purpose preferredto Martha’s care; to declare unto us, thatit is much better with Mary to lludy inthe word, and first to feek the kingdomof God, Matth. vi. 35. than with Martha,to labour in the world, and to neglect thatheavenly kingdom. And yet notwithstand¬ing fuch is the corruption of this rustyage, that our greatest care is to providefor this present life, as did that rich man,Luke xii. that enlarged his barns, whereinto put (lore for many years; but we never,or very late, do provide for that life tocome, like to that other man that neverhad thought of heaven till he was tor¬mented in hell! Luke xvi.In John xi. 5. Christ is faid to love thisfamily ; and here he is faid to come untothem : for whom he loveth, he cannot butvisit, like the friends of Job, chap. ii. thatcame to comfort him in his adversity —Yea, and the greateer 1 ve that Christbears ,un’o anv, the cfiener he dmh resortunto them; yea, he will come and.dwellwith them, John xiv. 25. Like Jacob,that came down into Kgypt, to his belovedfon Joseph, and dwelt in Goshen, Gen. xlvii.But Christ is yet more kind than Jacob was,.rtf( *5 )for he curie not till he came of his ownjccorcl to his beloved family, jesus dothAlways prevent us with his inxratold bless¬ings. Before he was desired, he came into*!he world ; he called his apostles, before!hey ckme unto him ; and before he was’ nvited, he csme into this poor house.—0 happy house, that entertained such a1;uu{l! and thrice happy inhabitants, tovhom such a guest would vouchsafe toi :omc 1 When he came unto the fwinifhiGladarenes, they desired him to depart out!)f their coasts; preferring their fwine be-Itpre their Saviour, Luke viii. But this: ;odly family gladly received him into their(House; preferred their God before their1 rold, and their fouls’ health before theirc vorldly wealth. They received him intosiheir houses, who had not a house of hisvj>wu to put his head into, Matth. viii. 16.’Wherein their hospitality is commended,triirvi fnail mosi certain!v be rewarded atrrhat most dreadful day ! Matth. xxv. Forli'.vith these, and fuch-like works of mercy,srhe Lord lhail answer the fentence of judg-lifncnt, which is to be denounced againft5-the wicked, that never exercised theses works of mercy.Let us therefore learn by their exampleCo be harbourers, and given to hospitality,f which is Co often commended to us in the( 16 }Scriptures, and fhall be fe richly rewarded ;at the last day. These godly fathers, :Abraham and Lot, entertained angels intheir houses, in the habit of Grangers,Gen. xviii. xix. So we may daily enter¬tain Christ Jesus, in the habit of a poorman, of a blind man, of a lame man;!and whatsoever is done to any of those)that are his members, he doth account jthereof as it were dons to himself.« ‘V* *•>; . * ]Now,, as this virtue of hospitality iscommendable in all forts of persons, foit is our fpecial concern, and more espe¬cially commended unto ministers, who are,expressly commanded by the Apostle Paul,among other things, to be given to hospi¬tality, i Tim. iii. z. Unto the LevUes,in the time of the law, the Lord appointedcities of refuge, Numb. xxxv. to fignify. thereby, that the minister’s house Ihouldbe the poor man’s harbour, and his Horntheir treasury. Bat the true ministers inthese cur days, have no cities of refugefor others, because they have none forthemselves ; they have not to relieve thewants of others, for they have not to re¬lieve their own necessities.Now,- when h'artha had once enter¬tained Christ, as he was man, into herhouse, Mary began to entertain him, asX «( 1/ }hs Gcdj icto her heart i the Tat athis feet, to hear his preaching. For nohfoor.er came Christ into the house, but: he took occasion to teach and instru&i (the family ; and instead of bodily food,Twhich they bestowed on him, he bestowed< (upon them the food of the foul. Thusrdoth Christ always fhew.himself a thank-1 ful guest: For into whatsoever house heen‘ereth in, he leaveth better things be-i hind him than he findeth : He loves notto be in Zaccheus* debt for his dinner,|.for instead thereof he bringeth falvation:4o his house : Neither does he here leavetiihis fupper unpaid; for instead thereof het nestowed on them a heavenly fermon.—This fhould be the-exercise of all faithfulmiriisters, when they are invited to a great'east; that, as they are called the fait ofhe earth, (Matth. v. i3.) to make meat.'lavoury and well feasoned, and to pre-nerve them from purrefattion ; fo the mini-iifers and pastors fnould feason the tableti.vith fonie godly conferences and com-JiTumications, to minister grace u.-to thei iearers, Eph. iv. 29.Both these filters were godly women,1 tnd-both earnest favourers of Jesus Christ;. ind yet in the manner of their devotions,n here is fuch a difference, that the worldly.ilfft&ions of tiie one, may, in fonie fort.( i8 )ba mkliked, in rccpeS: of the gedly cXfir-cise and practice of the other. Marthais fore incumbered with much ferving,when a little fervice had been fufficient;but Mary is attentive to hear the wordof God, which never can be heard fufli-ciently. Mary fitteth, to hear the word,Matth. v. as Christ ^seth to fit, when hepreached the word, Luke iv. to declareunto unto us, that the word is to bepreached and heard with a quiet mind.—In a Hill night, every voice is heard;and when the body is quiet, the mind mostcommonly is quiet also. But Martha istroubled with other affairs, and thereforeunfit to hear the word, as is the groundthat is covered with Hones, or overgrownwith weeds and thorns, which is indeedunfit to receive the feed, or to yield anyfruit to him that tilleth it, Matth. xiii. 20.As often, therefore, as we come to hearthe word of God, we must nr.t come withdistradled minds, we must not troubleourselves with the cares of this life, whch,as our.Saviour faith, are but thorns, tochoak the word, and to make it unfruit¬ful, Luke viii. 4. For, as Moses was unfitto talk with God, till he had put off hisfhoes, Exod. iii. and the blind man unfitto come to Christ, until he had thrownaway his cloak, Mark x. fo we must thinkourselves unfit: to hear the word of God,f( 19 )pnd unspt for every heavenly exercise, tillwe have put t.-ff our fhoes, that is, all ourworldly cogitations and sffedtions; and tillwe have cast away our cloaks, that is, allletts and impediments, which may hinderus in profiting in our professions. Whenour minds are quiet; v/e are-fit to deal withheavenly matters; therefore the Doctorsconferred fitting in the temple; and Godhe delightetb to deal with us, when we aremost private. He appeared to Abraham,fitting in the door of his tent, Gen. xviii.Tne Holy Ghofl:, he came down upon theapostles, and filled all the house where theywere fitting. The Eunuch, fitting in hischariot, was called ambconverte 1, by thepreaching of Philip, Adis viii. 37.Mary fat at Jesus’ feet, yet fat fhe rotfleeping, as many fit at tin? preacher’s feet;but ihe fat at Christ’s feet, and heard hiswords; as Paul was brought up at thefeet of Gamaliel, and was perfetth instruc¬ted in the low of his fathers, A&s xxii.Her humility is commendable, in that Ihefat at Jesus’ feet; to declare to us, thatthe word is to be heard with all humility.Her diligence and earnestness appeareth,in that fhe would not depart and help herfiller; to fignify, that the hearing of theword mull be preferred before worldlybusiness. Her diligence and humility may( 20 )fcrve to condemn our negligence and con-'tempt, of Chrift and his word.; we da notfit at Ghrift’s feet, nay, we fet Clrrift atour feet, when we are f> careless in hearingof the word ; we are as ll w to came tothe church, as the raven was to come tothe ark of Noah, Gen. viii. and as loath arewe to fpend any time in the fervice of God,1as Pharaoh was loath to let the Israelites goto ferve tie L rd. If a commodity weteto be feen, out of which forne profit or'worldly gain may arise, hew careful wouldwe be to procure it ? What pains would wetake to get it ? Absalom was no more de¬finable of a kingdom, than are the rich menof our tin e desir’Ufe of golden gain ; but ifit be a matter of cost and trouble unto them,if they cannot hear the word preached, with¬out fume hindrance to their worldly busi¬ness, and fome extraordinary charge totheir purse, then, like to the Gadarenes,Luke viii. they are content to take theirleave of Christ and his word, and wouldrather leave the heavenly pearl, than partwith their worldly pelf, Matth. xiii. 49.Thus, in Christ, w’e have a pattern ofa good past r; and in Mary, the patternof a good hearer. Let ministers loarn byhis example, to take all occasions to preachthe w rd; to be instant in feafon and outof feafon, 2 Tim. iv. r. And let Christians. . ' ' 1x>( 21 )earn by her example, first to feck the king-iom of God, and his righteousness, Mat. vi.md then to provide for things of this life.Wdnle Mary was careful for the food ofhe foul. Martha was curious to provideucd to the body ; her greatest care was tointertain Christ, and to make him goodiheer, to testify her thankful mind untoi iim, that had done fo great things for them:ie had raised her brother Lszarus fromiii eath to life, therefore he was worthy to!ie well entertained. If Elias deservedllo be well dealt withal, at the hand cf his:iji stess, whose f• n he had resuretl to life,ji.: Kings xvii. or Elisha deserved fuch en-i rertainment, for her fon’s reviving, i Kings1 v. then fureiy cur Saviour Christ was muchj jn re w elcome hither, feeing he had raisedsjLszarus out of his grave, where he hadfain by the fpace of four days bef.re, J. hnxi.|tt was well di ne, therefore, of Martha tojji'ihew her thankful mind to Christ; but ita*.as not well done at that time, to {hewliitrself thankful in that manner; for it wasaihen lime to hear the w ord, because at thatuime Christ preached ihe word; it was not,i c nvenient time for her to ipend on other||{Fairs, and to negleft the greatest affair,Ikven the means f her own falvation. Itvas n t unlawful hr Martha t) labour,ho more than it was unlawful for Peter tolileep; but, when Christ was preaching,( 22 ),it w*s then m time for her to busy herseLin ferving, fto more than it was f r Peteito'{l.;ep, whenas Christ did fo earnestljwili him to watch and pray,, Matth. xxv.» NWhen Christ preached nut of Simon’;]fhip to the people that itcod upon the fhorcLuke v. it was no time then for Peter tqplay the fifhermani but when Christ hadleft fpeaking, and commanded him to launch'!out into the deep, then wa; it time f r hirrljto let d vvn his net. There is a time]wherein we ought to labour in our vocati >njand a lime wherein we ought to hear theword cf G d; and as we may not utterlyneglect our lawful calling to follow fermnns.fo mutt we not bestow the Sabbath, whichis consecrated to the fervice of God, in fol¬lowing the works of our vocation. “ Allthings have their appointed time,” faith thewise man^ and “ every thing is feemly inhis convenient feafon,” Eccl. iii. b it whenthings are d"ne preposterously, and out oiorder, then followeth confusion.Now, let us fee how Mary is excused,and commended f r her godly care: Onpthing is necessary, faith our Saviour. Andwlrat is that one thing ? Even to hear theword preached, which is the power o Godunto lalvatiun-, to every one that believeth.R un. i. 16. A man may better want all( 23 ) 'nh'ngs, than that one needful thing; end.i.ret we desire all things, and we negleffchat one thing which is fo needful. This:>ne thing hath Mary chosen, and thereforelath chosen the better pan : Martha’s pares good, because it provided! for this pre¬sent life; but Mary’s part is better, becauset leaded! unto eternal life. It is good toDe occupied about our calling, to get our’ iving ; but it is better to be occupied inhearing the word, which is able to favebur f. uls.1Chrift 1 ves Monha f r hospitality, asisaac h ved Esau f r his venison; and Christloved Mary f r her care and diligence inaring his word, as Rebecca loved Jacobor the hearkening to her voice, Gen. xxv.s a nurse, that having her breasts full tfilk, d< th 1 ve the child that fucks it fromer, even f> the Lord Jrsus Christ, whenjpe hath his breast full of heavenly milk, islad w hen he hath children to fuck the fame,^et us therefore, as the apostle willeth us,I,iy aside all maliciousness, guile andissimnlation; all envy and ill-fpeaking;nd, as new-born babes, desire the fincerejilk of the word, that we may gfovy thereby,1> perfect men in Christ J:sus,” iPet. ii.i..et us breathe after the fountain of living-ater, which fpringedi up into everlasting:le. J hn iv. 14.// ‘7/1 ^V ^4 }forasmuch as many things are. 10:tronbl^souie, and f;ne thing is f. very need-;ful, let us ever be feeking that needful,thing, which we mult iearn by hearing of;the word of G d. whereby faith, with utv/hich it is impossible to please God, Heb. ixi. 9. may be begotten and nourished inthe?%c*rts ^>f men, Rom. x. 17. As f»rail othewhings, whether they be honours,,prom- ti' ns, pleasures, or whatsoever else,,they ferve only f r the maintenance of this;present life, they are but fhort, and alsovery fubject to mutability : But the word1of G ^d is the food of the foul, the bread oflife, that immortal feed, which bringethjforth fruit unto eternal life, 1 Pet. i. 13.—[<Let the word of God-be precious to us,because it is fo permanent; for heavenand earth ihall pass away, Luke xxi, 23,but the word of God. endureth Lr ever,1 Pet. i. 25. If we make choice of any;other thing besides,'it must be taken froir;us, r we must be taken from it; but if we?make choice of thi. z.ne thing, it ihall neveMbe taken fr, m us, neither in this life, noithe life to come. The Lord grant, tha.we be not only hearers, but doers of th<word, James i. 22. Amen.+FINIS.