CHEAP TRACTS,’ Calculated to promote the, Interests- of Reli~gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. V. •C ounselsTOYOUNG MEN:IN A LETTER,FROMA FATHERTOHIS SON.Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the ma»that getteth undetftanding. Prov. iii. &. 13.DUNBAR :Printed Hy O. Miller :—at whofe Shop may be had a variety;;f Patupiiicts, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pictures, Catecliifins,54c.WHOLESALE and retail.T OF SCOTURCCOUNSELSTOYOUNG MEN-All youth, fet right at firft, -with cafe go on.And each neu tajh is "with neiv pleafure done ;But if negletled till they grow in years.And each fond mother, her dear darling /pares.Error becomes habitual, and ,oil’llfind,’Tis then hard labour to reform the mind.THE point of life at which you are nowarrived, is a very interesting one ; and1 truft you feel that it is fo. I Should havea much lower opinion, both of your under¬standing and your heart, than I am inclinedto entertain, if I could fuppofe you felt noemotions on leaving a father’s houfe, en¬deared to you by fo many pleafing recollec¬tions, and entering upon a new fcene oflife, in which you have fo many importantTnterefts depending.The prefenr, my dear fon, is to you a .ferious moment. Jt calls upon you to re- lfled:, to deliberate, & to refolve. Launch- jiing forth, as you are, into the wide ocean iof the world, where you muft rely for fafety If( 3 ): upon your ov/n judgement, prudence, andifirmnefs, much more than upon the wifdomi|or kindnefs of others; where every thing(will depend upon your judging rightly and.adting well : you thould now make it yourifirft bufinels to fix upon fuch a plan of con-Idudt, as you may purlue with security andadvantage through the remainder ol yourl life.Education and example have alreadyjtaught you to love virtue ; habit has inclin¬ed you to revere her authority and obey her. laws; and you fet out in life with a happyIjbias towards that which is right and good,and I trull too, with a determined purpofeto adhere to it as long as you live. But inorder to render you Heady and inflexiblein your good refolutions, it is neceflary thatyou Ihould be apprized of fome difficulties,and warned of fome hazards, which youmud expe£l to meet with; and in order toaflift you in making the greateft advantageof your talents and opportunities, it may beof ufe to furnilh you with certain rules orprecepts for your direction in the condudtof life. The counsels which I mean tooffer you, will, therefore, be naturallyclaffed under the two general heads ofcaution and advice; caution, withrefpectto things which are to be avoided ; advice,with refped to things which are to bePURSUED.( 4 )The firft caution which l fhall give youis this : Be not eajily perfuaded to abandonvourprinciples. It is not my intention bythis caution to difcourage you in the freeinquiry after truth; principles which willnot bear examining, are not worth retaining.It is the indifpenfable duty, as well as theunalienable right of every rational being,to “prove all.things,” that he may, in therefult, “ hold fall that which is good.”Review, as accurately as you have oppor¬tunity, the grounds of thofe religious andmoral principles in which you have beeneducated ; examine all opinions, difculs allqueftions, as freely as you pleafe. Perfed:ireedom is the birth-right of man ; andHeaven forbid, that any human authorityIhould infringe or reftrain it ! But in theexercife of this right, be modefl and difcreet.If the principles, which in the courfe ofyour education you have embraced, haveappeared to you fupported by folid ar¬guments and latisfadory evidence, continueto regard them as true, till arguments more |folid, and evidence more fatisfadory, onthe other fide, oblige you to relinquiihthem ; and before you part with any articleof your creed, be very certain that you donot miftake ridicule or fophiftry for foundreafoning.My next caution is ; Be not ajhamed opyour principles, nor afraid to Jo How them.( 5, )\ Diffidence is, to a certain degree, an amiable| quality in young people. As far as it!| implies diftruft of their own powers in diffi-ij cult undertakings, o-r of their own under-i landings in doubtful queftions, it is a plea-| fmg proof of modefty ; but it is carried toj a culpable excefs when it leads them to a• I cowardly deiertion of truth, and virtue,i' When a young man dares not avow his• reverence for religion, or his refpedt fori decorum, in the prefence of the licentiousand profligate; when inftead of afiertinghis principles with hrmnefs, he preferves aI timid and dilgraceful filence, whilft heI! hears them difclaimed and ridiculed; ftill:j| more, when he yields to the current, fo far;!i as to join in the prophane language, and:||j partake of the guilty praiftices of his com-|| panions; modefty degenerates into falfe de-ill licacy and criminal fhame. Do not ima-| gme' that fuch bafe compliances can beIjuftified or excufed, on the plea of civilityand good breeding. The principles whichyour reafon and judgement approve, avowi: ihem boldly, and adhere to them fled fait ly ;nor let any falfe notions of honour, or piti¬ful ambition of Ihining, ever entice you toforfake them. Do what you judge to be■ right, whatever others may think of you ;i and learn to defpife alike, the praife and the; cenlure of bad men.Let me caution you, in the next place,Not to fuffer yourfelf to be impofed upon byfalfe appearances of pleafure. A youngman, when he hrft efcapes from the eye ofliis parents, and is fet free from the fliacklesof authority, is apt to imagine that flowersof delight will ipring up under his feetwherever he goes, and is loth to believe itpoffible, that he can rove into any pathwhere he will tread upon thorns. He givesan eafy credit to every flattering promifeof enjoyment, and fancies that he fees hap-pinefs under every form of pleafure. Andthe fond dreams which are produced in hisown deluded imagination, are too oftenfoftered by the artful fophiftry of libertinedeceivers; who endeavour to prefuade him,that the limitations Dfcfcrib-d tC ihsgence of appetite, by the laws of God, orthe inftitutions of fociety, are fevere andunneceffary reft rain ts, and that he is the wif-eft and happieft man, vvholooneft emancipateshimfelf from the prejudices of education,and gives the freed Icopeto his inclinations.Believe fne> my fon, or rather believe theteftimorri*, of univerfal experience, when youare aflured, that the fair promiles of licen¬tious pleafure are fallacious, and that everyexpe&ation you may entertain of happinefsbeyond the boundary of virtue, will inevit¬ably difappoint you. In order to'convinceyourfelf of this, without making the danger-C 7 )ij ous experiment, you need only recolleft!j this plain maxim, that where there is, onthe whole, more pain than pleafure, there: can be no happinefs. By obferving what ispaffing in the world, inform yourfelf whetherit be not too certain to admit of difpute,J that licentious and criminal pleafure is na-::! rurally produ&ive of infamy, difeafe. po-4 verty, and remorfe to the immediate tranl-• > greflbrs; that it tends to the entire annihi-: lation of all the domeftic affedtions ; and| that it introduces endlefs diforder and con-I fufion into civil lociety. If you find all thisI to be true, and you need not look far1 abroad to convince you that it is fo,—youI will acknowledge that moralifts and prccep-:S tors have fome rcafon for inveighing againll1 licentious pleafure; and you will be l‘e:uI fible, that parents who love their children1 have fome occafion for folicitude, that theyl may be preferved from fo dangerous a fnare.I Remember the maxim of an ancient fage ;“The love of pieafure is a temporary- mad-i nels.”Another caution, of lefs confequence in-i deed than the preceding, but by no meansunworthy of your attention is. Beware of(prodigality. Generofuy is in young perfonsfo natural, and to own the iruth, lo amiablea quality, that 1 would be very careful notto diicourage it. Within the limits of hon-efty and dil'cretion, let it have free fcope.( S )But the tranfition from generofity to Gara-ljlefsnefs of expence, and from this to down41right extravagance, is fo eafy, efpeciallylv/ith the young, that the caution I now giveyou is by no means unneceflary. Many ayoung perfon, by indulging this habit, has•wafted an ample patrimony, and plungedhimfelf into inextricable difficulties ; whilfl:others, with the fame temper, but withontequal refources, have call the burden oftheir extravagance upon honed tradefmen,whom they have robbed of their property,in a method fomewhat more circuitous, butcertainly not lels iniquitous, than if theyhad been guilty of theft or plunder. Incaffis the moft favourable, this difpofitionprevents more advantageous applications ofwealth, and obftnnfts the ufeful and mer¬itorious exercife of generofiry in offices ofhumanity.On the contrary, let me caution you—tor in the prefent times there is fome necel-fsty for cautioning even the young, not to■indulge a?i avaricious temper. Avarice is in¬deed commonly confidered as the peculiarvice of old age : and perhaps the love ofmoney, as fuch, is feldom found to takepoflefficn of the heart in early life. But inan age, when riches attract fuch univerfalattention, when fo much value is placedupon the decorations which they procure,and when they are rendered in fuch a vari-( 9 >|ety of ways fubfervient to amufement andupleafure; it cannot appear furprifing,:cven young persons are frequently infedledywith a fordid third of gain, and early learnto facrifice their tender affections, and eventheir generous virtues, on the altar of wealth.JjLct it not then be thought unneceffary or un-Ifeafonable, it l earneftly exhort you, my dear:ifon. who are as yet unhacknied in the ways! of the world, to beware left you be feducedj from your fimplicity, and robbed of your inte-igrity, by the feducing attra&ions of wealth.To thefe cautions it is neceflary to add,i:! Beware of indulging a habit of indolence.ji.Notwithftaneling that natural vigour and■laftivity, which so peculiarly diftinguifhes|| t|ie period of youth, that it might almoft:I seem to fupercede the neceffity of this cau-i;| tion, it is found in faft, that many youngft persons, either through fome mismanage-Iment in their education, or through a na¬tural fluggifhness of dispofition, fall into aninvincible habit, of indolence. Thole whoare conlcious of any propenfities of thiskind, cannot be too careful not to indulgethem ; for when once the tone of the mindis relaxed by floth, it is fcarcely poftible toreftore it. On the moft favourable lup-pofnion which can be made, it muft be. ex¬pected that a young man to whom indol¬ence is so far become habitual, that he findsa pleafure in idle laundering or total inac-C 10 )tion, will be indifferent to every laudablepurfuit, and incapable of every manly andgenerous exertion. A mere blank in thecreation, he will drag on a tedious exigence,without benefit to the world, without creditor affedtion among his acquaintance, arideven without perfonal enjoyment. But it‘may be much apprehended that the con-fequence will be flill worfe. There is in thehuman mind fuch a powerful fpring of ac¬tivity, that it cannot long remain whollyunoccupied. If it be not engaged in fomeuseful employments, it will be ready toliften to every felicitation of appetite orfancy.Be always busy for some purpose eitherv of profit, of usefulness, or at lead of inno¬cent amusement. Never think of findingany gratification in doing nothing. Thetenure by which we hold’ our exiftence is,that we fhould be induflrious. Labour isthe price we muft pay for riches, fame,\ Iknowledge, virtue and happinefs. Think,then, for what ends you were created;think what you owe to yourfelf, to yeurfriends, and to your country; “think thattime has golden minutes, if dilereetly fazed,”% and let therfi not be lavifhed away in un-produdliye idlenefs.The laft caution which I ftiall offer youis, Avoid bad company. This caution isperhaps of more extenfive meaning, and ofj ( 11 )more confequence, than you may at firftapprehend. By bad company 1 underftandall fuch persons as would either be likelyto corrupt your morals, or in any other wayto injure your reputation, or hinder yourimprovement. Vicious company, however,is that which above all other, you Ihould becareful to avoid. Whatever confidence you.i may be inclined to place in your own good.! habits and fixed reColutions, be affured, itwill fcarcely be poffible that you Ihouldi often aflbciate with the profligate withoutI being infedted by their corrupt principles| and licentious manners. You might as1 loon expedt to take fire into your bofomt2 and not be burned, as to become the inti-i; mate companion and friend of bad men, and»| not partake of their vices. Allure yourfelf,I my dear fon, your only fafety from fuchJ dangerous enemies lies in flight. If youf think it of any importance to preferve yourt innocence, and to fecure your peace of mind,1 your credit and profperity in the world,i and your happiness through every period of! your exiftencey avoid—I do not fay, allintercourfe with bad men, for this couldfcarcely be done in the moft folitary retire-j ment but certairly all intimacy and par-i ticular frimdprip with them: for “evilcommunications," naturally, and almofl: in¬evitably, “corrupt good manners.”To thefe Counsels of Caution, refpect-i ing things which it will be your wisdom and( 12 )duty to avoid, allow me, my dear Ton, toadd certain Hints of Advice, refpettingthe means by which you may attain intel¬lectual and moral excellence, and lecure trueand lading felicitv.And here, my firft advice—a due atten¬tion to which will prepare the way for everywife purpofe, and manly exertion—is, Beambitions of excelling. There is a naturalardour in young minds, which needs onlytq be well directed in order to produce thehappieft cfFedts. There is, moreover, anexcusable vanity, common among youngpeople, which under proper managementmay fee turned to good account. At yourentrance on the world, does your bosomglow with the delire and hope of diftinc-tion ? Cherilb the generous flame. Are, youunable entirely to rise above the natural in¬firmity of thinking too well of yourself?convert it into a motive to vigorous exertion,in the pursuit of high attainments in what¬ever is laudable. Whilft other young per¬sons are conceited of their prefent talentsand acquifnions, be you, my .(on, emulousof the highefl degree of excellence. Letme entreat you, my dear fon, to keep con¬tinually in view the wife defign, of mak-ing yourselt as perfect and happy as poflible;the good purpole, of being eminently usefulin the world; and the laudable end, ofdoing credit to your family and connedions,C 3 3 >I to your country, and to your nature ; andI' Jet thefe objects inlpire you with even grow-tl ing ardour in the career of merit.Attend diligently to the divine precept,1 “Know thyself.” This precept not only4 requires a general knowledge of the powersv and interefts of human nature, but a pur-!|| ticular acquaintance with your own powersi; and your own interefts. Eftimate with as( much accuracy as you can the ftrength of; your abilities, in order to know in what un-41 dertakings you may engage with a fair pro-1 bability of fuccess, and what would be un-1 fuitable to your talents, or above your ca¬pacity. Ohferve attentively the natural turn| of your difpofition and temper, that youl may difcover where it is chiefly neceflaryi to be upon your guard. Remark diftindlyJ the connexions in which you are placed,| the ftation you hold in foctety, and the cir-i!; cumftances, whether favourable or other-■'i wile, which attend you; that you may bejj apprized both of your difficulties and youradvantages; and that by providing ag?iinftjj the former, and improving the latter, you! may make the moft of your fituation. Thebetter you are acquainted with yourfelf, themore likelv you will be to preferve proprietyj and confiftency of charafter; the moreJ effectually you will be guarded againft con-| ceit and prefumption on the one hand, andagainft meannel's and irrefolution on theC H )other. A modeft confidence, becoming aman’s ftation and character, is the naturaleffect of felf-knowledge.Be it your next care, my fon, to learnand exercife felf-command. the differencebetween one man and another, both withrefpefr to wisdom and happinefs, chieflvconfifts in the different degrees in whichreafon, or paflion, predominates in theircharafters. Blindly to follow the impulfeof appetite and inftinft, would be to degen¬erate into a ftate perfedtly brutal. He whodoes not learn to govern his paflions, willinevirablv become their ffave. That kindof dominion over yourfelf which refpectsthe appetites, is abfolutely neceflary to fe-cure you from hourly difquiet and vexation.But befides these, there is a general habitof felf-pofleflion, and felf-command, whichI earneflly entreat you to cultivate, as aninexhauffible fource of tranquillity, and anineftimable advantage in the conduct ©f life.Whilft the man who indulges a reftlefs andimpetuous temper, is difturbed and agitatedby every trifling occurrence, ruffles into ac¬tion precipitately and without due delibera¬tion, and often ^xpofes himfelf to hazardswhich might have been eafily avoided, andplunges himfclf into difficulties from, whichno after-thought can extricate him : he whohabituates hirnfelf to reflrain and fubdue hisemotions, and to preferve his mind in a calmt 15 )and collected ftate, will be prepared to feizeand improve favourable opportunities, tomake u(e of every poffible precaution againftimpending evils, and to meet with equa¬nimity rhe unavoidable vieiffitudes of life.Add to this, that fuch a fedate and com-pofed habit of mind will enable you to pro-fecute whatever you undertake with Headyrefolution, and wdil do more to enfure yourfuccefs than eager and rapid impetuolity.Perfeverance accomplilhes more than pre¬cipitation ; and there is muclj^ good fenseJin the Perfian adage : “The patient mule,which travels flowly night and day, will, in1 the end, go farther than an Arabian courier.At the fame time that you are diligent| to know, and refolute in governing yourfelf,' be careful \.o avail yourJelf of the wifdom andexperience of other men. This may be done,|i either by afking advice of fuch friends asyou judge capable of giving you goodcounfel, or by Midying fuch writings asabound with moral wifdom. The lattermethod will be exceedingly ufeful, in fur-nilhing you with general principles and par¬ticular maxims of condudt, and in preferv-Iing you attentive to the important bufinefsof moral improvement. But in particularcases, where it is difficult to determine inwhat manner it may be expedient to aft,no guide can be fo ufeful as a judicious andexperienced friend. Guard againft thatconceit which would deprive you of the be-( 16 )nefit of wife counfels. It is great prefump-tion in any one, and efpecialiy in a youngman, to be fo confident in his own judg¬ment, as to imagine that he can never needadvice. “He that hearkens to counfei, iswife.”Thus prepared, enter, my fon, upon thecourfe of life which is before you, with adetermined refolucion to “let Reafon gobefore every enterprize, and Cpunfel beforeevery adtion.”As every man has, or ought to have,fome occupation in life, by which he maybenefit himfelf and his immediate connec¬tions, and be useful to fociety, the choiceof an employment, and the manner in whichits offices are to be executed, every youngman ought to confider as matters of greatimportance. If,, by the united aid of yourown felf-knowledge, and the judgment, andexperience of your friend|§, this importantchoice has been made in a manner luitableto your talents and natural difpofitions, youmay reafonably expedt that your employ¬ment will afford you fatisfadtion, reput¬ation, and advantage. But that the expect¬ations v/hich you will naturally form at yourentrance on your polfeflion may not be fruf-trated, feveral moral and prudential rulesmuff be carefully obferved. On this point,let it be your fiift care never to engage inany plan of bufiness, or undertake any con¬cern, however profitable, which your heart::>! condemns as oppreflive, injurious, or in any::J other rerpeA difhonourable. Remember,i my dear ion, the world itfelf cannot offerI you a prize which would not be too dearly| purchaled at the expence of your honourill and integrity. My next advice, with re-1 fpedt to bufinefs is, Truft for fuccess moreI in your ikill, induftry. honefty, and punc-l tuality, than in any arts of addrefs, or anyi ingenious management, which may promiiei to give you an advantage over your rivals.An obliging address, and graceful manners,have doubtless a confiderable eff-ft in win¬ning the attention, and engaging the affcc-|j tions of men, and therefore ought by nomeans to be negled.ed ; but after all, theworld is commonly too wife, at leaff whereintereft is concerned, to be impofed uponby mere external fhaw, and nothing will-fix and fecure their favour, but that fo!idi merit on uhich they can fafdy rely. Makeyourfelf thoroughly mafter of your employ¬ment; be diligent and affiduous in bufmess;be faithful and pundlual to your engage¬ments; be regular and exaft in all "yourtranfadVions, and it will be learcely poffibleyen (Imuld not fucceed. One further cau¬tion I lhall add on this head, which is. Nei¬ther be too much afraid of offending others,nor hoop to flattery and meanness to gaintheir favour. 1 hefe are methods of thriveing, neither very virtuous, nor very prudent.( is )f<*For they Xeldom procure lading efteemor afFedlion : you will find your advantagein endeavouring to oblige men by ealycivilities and real fervices: but if you gaintheir favour by flattery, you can keep it nolonger than you are willing to be their flavesor their tools.”In your amufements, my advice to you is,to be select and temperate ; felect, that ithey may not feduce you into any purfuitsunworthy of a well inftructed mind ; andtemperate, that they may not interfere withyour more important labours, and yourhigher duties. Thofe amulements aloneare eligible, which by affording an eafy andpleafant exertion of the bodily or mentalpowers, exhilarate the fpirits without de¬praving the taftc, or corrnntin<r the h^art.And o! liiiibccnt amufements, thofe are tobe preferred which, at the fame time thatthey an finer the purpose of relaxation fromfeverer purfuits, afford fome advantageousexercife of the underftanding, the imagin¬ation, or the moral feelings.it is an object of great moment, thatyoung peribns fliould early accuftom thern-felves to fill up a' conliderable portion oftheir leiture with reading. Cultivate, myfon, a tatle for reading, and you will find itan inexhauftible fund of elegant amufement,and improving occupation. It will enableyou to enjoy many a folitary hour, which* Lardneds CounfeIs of Prudence.  t( i9 ) ''r might otherwife hang heavy upon your■’ hands : it will furnifh you with ftores ofi knowledge, which will qualify you to ap-j pear with credit and diliinction in.the com-( pany of perfons of fense and education; andI it will enlarge your capacity of ufef.ulness inI the feveral connections of fociety. In order; to render your reading productive of thefe| advantages, be careful in your choice ofti books, that your feelings be'not debafed,ii nor your heart cofrupted, by a kind of “evilJ communication,” not less dangerous thant: bad company ; and that your time be notI wafted upon thofe infignificant and triflingI productions, which convey no information,I afford no liberal exercife for the imagin-|| ation, and excite no manly, generous, andinrV»ntn rr\<=>•■>♦■- ^ ’- -r♦ tuviii.?* j^uivica in tins Uythe judgment of those who have had furtheropportunities than yourself of knowing whatbooks are bell: adapted to afford you elegantamufement and useful inftruction.As a conuderabie portion of your timewill of courfe be Ipent in company of vari¬ous kinds, it may be of great use to you,my dear fon, to be furnifhed with certainleading maxims and rules of prudence onthe head of conversation. In your choiceboth of companions and affociates, next tomoral character, which ought unqueftion-ably to be the firft object, pay attention tointellectual accomplithments. When yougo into company, carry with you, as your( 20 )conftant attendants, Honefty and Civility :Honefty to preferve you from offering anyviolence to your own principles, and Civility Ito preferve, you from unnecdfanly offendingothers. In dll companies, refpect yourfelf lofar as to preferve confiftency of character; fuityour converfation and aridrefs to the differentciicurnftances and characters of the perfonsyou converse with, but alwavs with the ftrictefladherence to what is fit andbecominginyourfelf. Regard, in the firft place, truth and fin-cerity ; in the next proprie y and feafonable-nefs: endeavour to keep the due mediumbetween opennefs and reierve, that you mayneither, on the one hand, lay an unpleasantand difgufting reftraint upon the freedom ofconverfaticn, nor on the other, unneceffarilyexpofe yourfelf to cenfure and obloquy. Beever ready to make candid allowances forthe errors or prejudices of others; remem¬bering that yon, too, have errors and pre¬judices which will calb for candour in re¬turn. Beware qf defpifing those who maybe inferior to you in feme accomplilhmenis;they may perhaps be much your fuperiorsin other refpects; if not, they may havemany juft claims to efteem, or at leaft areentided to the .common expreffions of civi¬lity. Laftly, make converfation, as muchas poffible, a fchool tor improvement. Takepains to gather up and carry away fromeverv company fome useful information, orfome good fe-ntiment ; or if this cannot al-( 21 )vays be done, let every company, however,afford tome exercife to your good affections,and furnitb you with some matter of useful(reflection. “ The induftrious bee gathersjaoney from every opening flower.”In the advice which l have hitherto givenyou, I have chiefly confidered you, my fon,iin your individual capacity, and fuggeftedmaxims and rules respecting your personalI improvement and happiness. It remainsthar I add a few hints respecting the variousimportant relations in which you ftand ati present, or may exped hereafter to beiijplaced.It is an eftablifhed law of nature, thatr;men fhould depend upon each other for.|;|f'ubfiftence and happiness. A human beingI in a date perfe&ly folitary and insulated,w would be deftitute, forlorn, and wretched.i1 Not only will you be neceffarily dependentif upon others for the accommodations of life,| and therefore bound in equity to contributei in your turn to their comfortable exiffence ;| but one very effential part of your perfonal1 enjoyment muff arise from the exercise ofthe focial affedions. The heart which hasno objed on which to exercise its benevo¬lent feelings; no one whom if loves, andby whom it is beloved, is deftitute of oneof the firft comforts of life, and muft have a! wretched confciousness of vacuity. Fromthe united fense of obligation and of intereft,i learn to look beyond yyurfelf, 'and to tike( 22 )- iKan affedionate concern in the v/elfareothers. Through the wife order of naturthis leUbn has already been taught you, i|your dotneftic relations. Love to yourents, to your brothers and fillers, andother near kindred, are affedions whichave already taken deep root in your heari®R(band which have been gathering ftrengtPr;through every advancing year of infancy'll-childhood, and youth ; (till cherilh thelitender and generous feelings; they will bthe fource of the pureft plealures in thimmediate exercife; and they will becomt'a flock, upon which may be grafted everj inoble and difinterefted fentiment of friend{hip, patriotism, and philanthropy.The youthf ul heart is commonly open tc)the impreffions of friendlhip, and ready tc Jattach itfelf with ardour to fome kindred ‘foul, with which it may participate all thefatisfadions of mutual confidence. In for-iming fuch attachments, you fhould, hosv-ivever, be careful, that the perfon whom youtvmake choice of as your friend, be pofl'ciredpof that flerling merit which will bear theJiflrideft fecurity ; endued with diferetion, jto fecure you from hazard in the free com- |munication of your thoughts ; adorned with |good temper, and amiable manners, to ren¬der the connedion pleafant; and blefiedwith fenfibility and generolity to repay theaffection you beftow.Vou naturally look forward to the timeC 23 ^|vhen you will form new connexions, both□ domeftic and civil life. It is unneccffary,t prefent to enter upon the detail of thelew feries of duties, which will of courserise as your fphere of action fhall be enlar-i ;ed. Only in general, that you may be pre-i >ared for the useful offices of active life, letne advife you tocherifh, in the mean time,he fentiments of benevolence, and to em-ftlrace every opportunity of expreffing kind:jnd generous affections. Avoid all fuchjonnections and indulgences as would im-J:J>ai>- the delicacies-of your feelings, and in-ilifpofe you for exercifing the “dear diar-•ilries” of the domedic relations. Habituate.i'ourself to look beyond your own gratifi¬cation and your own convenience, to thofe4f others. If you wifh to be admired as aompanion, or loved as a friend ; if you/ouid attach thofe with whom you are cor*-iccted to your intereft ; if you are ambi-fious to be refnected in your neighbourhoodlor civility, generofity, and public fpirit;-i f you afpire after the exalted merit of beingfriend to mankind ;—early accuflom your-elf in the daily intercourfes of life, to bendour own inclinatioifs and humours to thofef others ; intereft yourlelf in every fcene ofarrow, or misfortune, which offers itfelf!’o your notice ; be attentive to every occur¬ence in which the public profperity, orhe caufc of virtue and religion, is concern-d* In one word, never forget that you are( 24 )born not for ycurfelf alone, but for yourfamily, your neighbourhood, your country,and the world; and on every occaflon whichcalls for the exercife of humane and gener¬ous feelings fay, “I am a man, and nothinginterefting to human nature is indifferent tome.” 'Another article of advice {till remains tobe added, which, though the laft, is bv nomeans the Icaft important. It is this: Raijethe edifice of your virtue and happinefs uponthe fare foundation of religion- Think it notfufficient that, in confequence of early edu¬cation and fubfequent enquiry, you admitthe doctrines of the exiftence, providence',and moral government of Almighty God asarticles of belief ; but by frequently recol¬lecting them as truths in which every ration¬al being is deeply interefted, deduce fromthem practical principles, to guide you inthe conduct of life. Confider every rule offobriety and felf-government which pru¬dence preferibes, and every act of juftice orcharity which benevolence dictates, as en¬joined by the authority of the Great Being,who has eftahlifhed thafc.conftitudon of na¬ture, in which virtue and happinefs are in-feparably united, and who has engraved thelav/ of virtue on ev&ry human heart.FINISJ-t inted by C ^filler, Dunbat.