'THE HISTORY OFfbe^ wicked LIFE and horrid DEATH ofI'--Dr JOHN FAUSTUS.SHEWING,itow he fold himfelf to the Devil, to havejPcAver for 24 years to do what he pleafed.AiC) th- ftrange things done by Inm andMEPHOSTOFHILES.'Yith an account how the Devil came forhim at the end of 24 years, and; ’< * tore him in pieces.Stirling, FKnted this present Year.c 3 rTHEII I S T O R YO FDr JOHN FAUSTUS.C H A P. I.I Dr Faudus’s birth and education; with anI account of his falling from the Scriptures.-n0CT0R JOHN fAUSTUS was bomILJ m Germany; his father was a poor la-jiouring man^ not able to bring up his foniohn ; but he had a brother in the fame:ountry, who was a very rich man but hadlever a child, and took a great fancy to his'oufm, and he refolved to make a fcholar of( 4 )him ; ''nd in order thereunto, put him tci the 1 *’chooI, where he took his learningextraordinary well ; afterwards he put himto the Univerfity to ftudy Divinity ; butFauihts could in no wife fancy that employ¬ment ; wherefore he betook himfelf to thefludying ©f that which his inclination was| mod for, viz.-Necromancy and Conjuration,and, in a little time, few or none couldout-ilrip him in the art : fie alio ftudied. Divinity ; of which he. was made Doctor’;but within a fliort time fell into fuch deepfancies and cogitations, that he refolved tcthrow the fcriptures from him, and betakehimfelf wholly to the flu4ying of necro-'-mancy and conjuration, charms and loo tinI faying, witchcraft, and the like.II C H A P. II.How Dr Fauftus conjur’d up the Devil, making him appear at his houfe.FAUSTUS, whofe mind was to ftudy conjuration, the which he followed nighday ; he took the wings of an eagleand endeavoured to fly over the world, to feiand know all the fecrets of heaven antearth : In a fliort time he attained powe:fevf( 5 )command the devil to appear before himen he pleafed. One day as Dr Fauftuss walking in a wood, near to Wirtemberg,Germany, he having a friend with him jit was denrous to know the 'do&or’s art,defjfed him to Jet him fee if he could then,d there bring Mephoftophiles before him t,which the do&or immediately* did, andg dev^il upon the firlt caii made «ich aife in the wood, as if heaven and earthEtiki have Come together ; then the devil,de fuch a roaring, as if the wood hadr full of wild beafts. The do&or made:ircle for the devil, the which circle thevil run round, making a noife as if tenoufand waggons had been running uponved ftones. After this it thundered andjhtened as if the whole world had been on •}e. Fauftus and his friend, am^ed at this)ife, and the devil’s long tarrying thoughtleave his circle ; whereupon the devilade him fuch mufic, the like was neverfard in the world : This fo ravifhed Fauftusat he began again to conjure Mephoftciphilesthe name of the prince of the devils, to>pear in his own likenefs ; whereupon, ini inft^nt, hung over his head a. mighty|«gon. Fauftus calls again after his formeranner, after which there was a cry in theicd as it hcli had been opened, and; all the |• ' /.tormented fouls had been there ; Faufbill the mean while, afking the devil mai•queftions, and commanding him to Ihmany tricks.' * ■ .. C II A P. III.How Mephoftophiles came to Dr Fauftuhoufe, and what happened between thenFAUSTUS commanded the fpirit to mehim . at his houfe by ten of the clothe next day. At the hour appointedcame into his chamber, alking Faultus \vbhe would have ; Faultus told him, it whis will and pleafure to conjure him to 'obedient to him in all points of thofe arcles, viz.Firft, That the fpirit Ihould ferve him in;things he alked, from that time till f■death.Secondly, Whatfoever he would, have, 1fhould bring him.Ihircjly, Whatfoever he defired to knovhe Ihonld tell him.The fpirit anfwered him and faid, he Inno fuch power of himfelf, until he had aquainted his prince that rul’d over him: “ F<id he, “ we have rulers over us, that fenrj|; us out, and command us home, when theyij pleafe j and we can act no farther than oust: power is, which we receive from Lucifer,1 ( who, you know, for his pride was thru ft‘ out of heaven. But,” faith the fpirit, “ f‘ am ngt to tell you any more except yen:: make yourfelf over to us.”Whereupon Fauftus faid, I will have my‘ requeft ; but yet 1 will nert be damned1 with you ” Then faid the fpirit, “ You: mult not, nor lhall not have your defue,‘ and yet thou art mine, and all the worl4‘ cannot fave tliee out of my hands.” Theftaid Fauftus, “ Get thee hence, and I con-f jure thee, that thou come to me at night/41The fpirit then vaniibed Fauftus then began,to confider how he might obtain his defire,and not give his foul to the devil.And while Fauftus was in thefe his devilifi*cogitations, night drew on, and this heUifhfpirit appeared to Fauftus, acquainting himthat now he had orders from his prince tob. obedient to him, and t<j do for him what-fo .'ver he defired, provided he would promileto be his, and withal to acquaint him firitwhat he would have of him ? Fauftus repliedthat his defire was to become a fpirk, andthat Mepho.ftophiies Pnould be always at hiscommand ; .that whensoever he called forhim, he Ikall appear invifible to all men!and that he ftiould appear in what ihape hiplealed. Io which the fpirit anfwered, thasall his defires ihould he granted if he woulifign thole ar'icles, he fhouid have.whatevehe would wifh or alk: for ; whereupon D;Fauftus withdrew and prick’d his wrift, receiving the blood in a fmall faucer, whiclrooled fo fall, as it it forewarned him of thhellifli ad; he was going to commit; neverthelefs he put it over embers to warm it, anc; writ as followed! :•“ I, John Fauftus, approved dodor of diwith my own hand do acknolrledge and teftily myfelfto become a fervan*to Lucifer, Prince of Septentrional ancOriental, and to him I freelv and velumtariiy give both body and foul ; in con-fideration for the fpace of twenty-four: * years, if I be ferved in all things I ft ah** require, or which is reafonable by him tost be allowed ; at the expiration of whichfrom the date'enfuing, ] give to him allpower to do with me at his pleafure ; to. rule, to fetch and carry me where he pkafes“ body and foul: hereupon I defy Godand Chrift, and all the Hof! of Angels^ and good Spirits ; all living creatures tiiatbear his ftape, or on whom his imarre is« . .u. .. - *imprinted j and to the better ft rung thenr my own blood, and fubfcrifeed my namec‘ to'it, calling all the powers and infernal“ potentates to witnefs it is my true intent: n git 2", ' - I n ■ '• -]What happened to Lr Fauftus after the fign-H ’ ing of the Ardctes,to him, and delivered him the bond ; where¬upon the fpirit told him, that if he did not,repent of what he had done, he Iftould enjoyall the pleufure his thoughts' could form,and that he would immediately divert him*He caufed a kennel of hounds to fun down'a hart in the hall, and vanilhed : then 3 bulldanced before Faullus, alfo there was^i lionand a bear which fell.to fighting beforeFauftus and the lion deftr-oyed the bear ; afterthat came a dragon and deltroyed the lion :And this, with abundance of more pailimedid the fpirit prefent to the dock’s view,concluding with, all manner of mufic, withand meaning.”JOHN FAUSTUS.C H A ?. IV.fome bnndreds of fplrits which came and jdanced before Fauffus. After the muficwas over, and FauPais began to look about Ihintj he law ten lacks full of diver, whichhe went to difpofe of but could not, for inone could handle it but himfeif, it was fohot. This paftime did fo pleafe Fauflus, thathe gave Mephoflophiles the will that hej .made, and kept a copy of it in his own| hands. The Spirit and Faudus being agreed,j they dwelt together, and the devil was in’ their houfe-keeping ; for there was never anything given away to the poor, which beforeFaultus made this contract was frequentlytlone> but the cafe is now akered.C H A P. V.How f’auftus ferved the Duke of Bavaria.^iUSTUS having fold his foul to theJL devil, it was reported among his neigh-jtjours, fo that none would keep him company,jttmt his Ipirit which was very frequent v.'ithhim, anu did whatiotver he commanded him,playing merry tricks for to pleafe Faultus.psfpt far from f aultus’s houfe lived the Dukeof Bavaria, the Duke of Saxony, and theBilhop of Salizburgh, whole houles andcellars Mephodophkcs uled to viht, and tobring the belt of every thing they had : one.y the Duke of Bavaria had invited^ modthe gentry of the country to dinner,r whofe entertainment there was abundanceprovifion got ready : The gentry beingme, and ready to fit down to dinner, in. inftant Mcphoftophiles came and took,/ay all with him, leaving them full of ad*(ration. If anytime Faultus had a mind forId fowl, the fpirit would call whole flocksat a window : Alfo the fpirit did teachmftus to do the like, fo that no lock nor:y could keep them out. The devil alfoLight Fauftus to fly into the air, and tot many things which are incredible, ando large for this fmall book to contain.CHAP. VI.ow Dr Fauftus dreamed of hell in his fleep,and what he faw there.A FTER Fauftus had a long conferencewith his fpirit concerning the fall oflucifer, and the ftate and condition of all thelien angels, he, in a vifion or deamj faw:!1, and all the devils-and fouls that v/eiermented there : he alio faw hell divided:to feveral cells, or deep holes ; and forrery cell, or deep ward, there wasta deyilAppointed to punifh thofe that were undhis auftody. Having feen this fightmuch marvelled at it; and having Mephof\ philes with him, he aflced him what fortpeople they were that lay in the frit dapit*? Mephofophiles told him they were thewho pretended themlelves to be ph/feiarand had^poifoned many thoufands to tpra&ice j and now, faith the fpirit, thhave the fame adminiftered to them, as thaid to others, though not with the fame *feet, for they will never die here, faith 1Over their heads was a ihelf laden wigallipots full of poifon. Having pail thenhe came to a long entry exceeding dartyhere there was a mighty crowd, he aik<•them what tho.fe were ? The fonit tohim they were pick-pockets ; who lovedbe in a crowd when they were in the othworld, ?.nd to content them, they put thein a crowd there, amengit their}, was io i| padder?, on the highway, and thofe of rh| function. Walking fui ther, he faw mai1 thoufands of vintners, and ibnie millions! taybr/, infdtnuch that they could not tjwhence to get (towage for them ; a grenumt/er of paftry cooks with pee;s on theheads. Walking further, the fpirit ope| ing a great cellar-door, from which arcI a tt’rri^le noife, he a feed what. they weni( 12> )The fpirit told him they were witches, Jand thofe' that had been pretended Saints in jthe other world ; but, how they did tquab- jble, fight, and tear one another ! No : far Jfrom them lay the Whoremongers and Adul¬terers, who made fuch a hideous none, that |he was very much ftartled. Walking downi few fleps, he tfpied an incredible number,ilmefl hid with Imoke ; he alked what theyvere ? The Spirit told him they were millersmd bakers ; but, good lack, what a noife ;|ra3 there among them ! The millers' cry¬ing to the bakers, and the bakers to thebillers for help but all was in vain, forhere was none to help them. Faffing onarcher he law thoufands of {hop-keepersbme of whom he knew, who were tor-in.mtei for defrauding and cheating (heirjufiomers. Having taken this pro: pc cl ofiieli, the Spirit Mephoftophiles took him iniis arms and carried him home to his ownicufe, where he awaking, was- amazed atmap he had teen in his dream Being come5 himielf, he afked the Spirit in what placeleu was, and who mafic it ? Mephofiophilesnfivered, ‘ Knoweft thou, that before thehncJn r, there w as no hell, but uponr : 11 • v-’as hell ordained. As for the 'we det'ii> do not know ; ,| the WxaUit ot God that makes licil id j( 14 )furious, and what we procured by our Fall:But where Hell is or how it is gpverned,and whatfoever thou defireft to )cnow, whenthou comeft there thou (halt be fatisfied asfar as we-know ourfelves.CHAP. VII.Containing fome Tricks of Dr Fauftus.DR Fauftus having attained his defire ofhis Spirit, had now full power to ador do any thing whatever he pleafeJ ; upona time the Emperor had a defire to fee him,\ and likewife fome of the Dc&or’s tricks ;, whereupon he was requfled by the Enspe-I' ror to do fomewhat to make him merry ;but the Dodor in the mean while lookinground about him, at lafl efpied a Lord lookHIing out at the window, and the Dodoifcalling his Spirit to help him he in an inftRant faftened a large pair of horns upon thlLord’s head, that he could not get his liea* :in till Faudus took the horns off again, windwere foen taken off invifibly : The Lor'whom Faufius had fervea fo, was extreme.!vexed, and refolved to be revenged on tbdodor, and to that end, lay a mile out ctown for Faullus’s pafling by, he being th.day to depart from the country ■ Famh( 15 )ming by a wood-fide, beheld the Lord)unted upon a mighty warlike-horfe, whoi full drift againfl Fauflus, who, by the:p of his Spirit, took him and all, andTied him before the Emoeror’s palace,i grafted a pair of horits on his head as; as an Ox’s : which he could never be"of, but wore them to his dying day.CHAP. VIII.How Dr Fauftus eat a Load of Hay;Auflus, upon a time, having many Doc¬tors and Matters of Arts with him, wentFaik in the fields, where they met withd of hay : “ How now, good Fellow,ipauftus, what Ihall I give thee to fillbelly with hay ?” The Clown thoughtiad been a mad-man to talk of eating oftold him he fhould fill his belly for aiy ; to which the dodtor agreed, andto eating, and quickly devouiing halfoad . At which the doctor’s companionsCu, to fee how fimply the poor countryv. looked and to hear how heartily he^ doctor to forbear : Fauttus pity-he poor man, went away, and beforen:‘a bct hear home, all the hay was inthe Cart that, the Doctor had eaten, whitmade the country fellow admire.C H A P. IX.How he ftruck a parcel of Students that wefighting together blind ; and how he ferva parcel of Clowns who were fmging a:ranting in an Inn.P-JHIIirteen Students meeting with fevjL more near Dr Faultus’s houle, fell c ;extremely, fivft in words, and at lalt to blowthe thirteen being too hard for the leven aDr Fauftus looking out of his window afeeing the fray, and how much they \vcover matched, conjured them ail blind, |that one could not fee the other; and in tmanner they fought and Imote one anoth:which made all that faw them laugh :length the people parted them and led thto their Chambers, they inftantly receifight.—The doctor coming into an Inn vfome friends was dihurbed by the hallowand baulihg of ti parcel of drunken Clowwhereupon when their mouths were vopen he fo conjured them,, that by no methey could (hut them again ; and fo ail cfudden there was a deep lilence ; and athey had flared one upon another, withbeirtff aHe to fneak, thinking they v.( *7 ) ' •“bewitched thfy dropped one by one away m* ^-inking ftar, and never could be got tobe houfe afterwards.CHAP. X.ow Dr Fauftus helped a young man to afair ladv.JBPHERji was a gallant young gentleman® that was in Love with a fair Ladyho was of proper perfonage, living atrtemberg, near die Doftbr’s houfe : ThisR tie man had long fought this lady inimage., but could not attain his defire ;d having placed his adebliorfs fo hutchon her, he was . ready to nine away, andi certainly died with grtef had he notfde his addreis to the Doctor, to whomopened the whole matter. No iooner. hadgentleman told his cafe to the Doctor,hm told him he need not fear, for hisre fh'mld be fulfilled, and he fhotild havethat he fo' much defired, and that thistlewoman diould have none but him,ch was accordingly done : lor Fauftushanged the mir.d of the damlel by hisni-ahlc pratlice, that foe could think “ofP:‘g ehebut h.'m whom before Cv; hated •■audus’s•Jefirc was tiusHtgave’ him( 18 )an inch anted ring., which he ordered hinto put into the laoy’s hand, or to flip it 02her finger, which he did 5 and no fooner ha>ihe the ring hut her heart burnt with love thim 5 fhe inflead of frowns, could do nothinbut fmile upon him, and not be at reft ti(he afked him if he thought he could !o\her, and make her his wife ? fde gladly aifwered, with all his heart. So they wemarried the next day, and all by the helpDr Fauftus.✓ t .* , , .4’c 4k35^r,:P %»Hrt? w %.v- * or “ffS- wC II A P. XI.How Dr Fauftus made feven women aar.naked in the Market place.T7ADSTUS walking in the market pi)i_ i;\W feven women fitting all in a r<ajelling eggs, butter, &c. Of every oneobought fomething and departed : No fowas he gone, but all the eggs and buwere gbne-out of their bafkets, > nd tk-nev-' not how: At-,Fit they were told,j )r F.aiftus had conjured their goods awthey thereupon ranIpeedil) to the Docthoufc and d'em.u ,,!ed. fatisfticlion ior twareHereio'vingIce him ft If,* ire h ownmople'merry by his cor-juC *9 ) -jArt, made them return to their bafkets na- !ked as ever they were born $ and havingdanced a while in the market-place, everyone’s goods were conjured into their bafkets iagain, and they fet at liberty.C H A P. XII.Wow Fauftus ferved a Country Fellow thatwas driving of Swine.DR Pauli:us, as he was going to Wirtem-berg, overtook a Country Pei low dri-ring an hundred Swine, who were verylead-ftrong, feme' running one way andame another ; fo that the driver could notdf how to get them along : The DoScrncing notice of it. by his conjuring art,lade every one ot them 'dance upon theirvo hind legs, with a fiddle in one ofieir fore feet, and with the other fore footicy played upc* the fiddle, and fo theyiii'Ced and fiddled all the way till they cameto Wirtcniberg market. The driver ofem all the way dancing before them, vfthicj*.ade the people wonder.: After the Dodor•d fatisfied himfetf with the {port i e con-red the, fiddles away, and the driver then<rRp^iir pupujji. 11 ” *f n( 20 )on*efed then' m f -!r rm’ quickly ^okl themi ali, nn<i t$el the fnoT»ey ; hu* I efort he nsgore cut of the houfe, F iuuos '-^d conjisrecj the Ht'trp out o’ the Market*pldce, and lenti tl-'m nil 'eome tp the atcref - 'fiver’s home;f 'Ine man that bought t*)t-n ‘eeinf all thtf ftt’ine gcn^, flopped the man hat i< ... them[ and would h:.v his mon.v which he. waj■: forced to pay ae ' ro returned home forrovvtr: and not knowing v.--- .. to do‘j but, t-I i:i-s yreaf aniazement, found ell his fvme i:thei‘ ii\es.II t- e- 3 l.d*' * i ? s ^f> - df. * ». ^c: it a p. xm.How DrFaunus began to bethink |iiiinelf'the near .-.puroach of his end.f ,'' Aufius having fpun out his twenty*foI years, w thin a month or two, beg:iq consider what he fhonki do to cheat t;Devil, but could not find any way to pivent his mnerable end, which wasnow neawhereupon he vhus cries out to hints■“ (>■ miferable wretch 'hat I am. I ha■riven mylelf to die Devil tor a■ few^ ye.pleaiure, to fatisty my carnal and devildefires, -md now l -rauii pay full dear ; n^mud I have torment, \avithout any ca( 21 )j> is me, for there is no help for me : Ie not, \ cannot look for mercy from God,I have abandoned him, and have rivenPelf to the devil, to be his for ever : Andv my time is almoft expired ; I have haddefires ; my filthy lufts I have fatished ;l I muff be tormented for ever andj. M ^neighbour of his, a godly old man.ring 01 his way of living*, in compafiion *Ins ioul came to him, and with tearsought, him to have more re-garii to hispous r°uf laying before him the mo-e of God’s grace and mercy, freely of-;J to repenting finners, and fpoke fo feel-ly, tiiat Fauftus fhed tears, and promifedtry to repent. This good man was noaer gone, but Mephoftophijes found himfn. e on his bed, and muttering what hadpened, began to reproach him withach of covenant to his lord Lucifer ?ndreupon almoft twifted his neck behind, which made him cry out lamentablyatenmg to tear him. in pieces, unlefs henved his obligation, which for fear, with:hfoi.*:)\v, he did, in a manner the famehe former, which he confirmed by the*T • <*( "2 )-C H A P. . XIV.How Dr Fauflus was warned of the Spiritprepare for his end.FAUSTUS’s full time being , come,fpirit appeared to him, arul fliewcd this writing, and told him that the next mthe devil would fetch him awa}, 'wfmade the doctor’s heart ake : Bat to dihimfelf, he fent for ion\e doftors and ma!batchelors of arts, and other ftudent?dine with him, For whom he provided gftore of varieties, with mufic, and the li|But all would not keep up his fpints, ,the hour drew near : Whereupon his cctenance changing, the doclors and xvuVof art enquired of him the reafons ofmelancholinefs ? To which Fauflus anfw*« My friends, you have known me^ tmany years, and ho\v I have pracliiecmanner of wickednefs ; I have been a gconjurer, which devilifh art I obtame <the devil ; and alfo to obtain power uwhatever I pleafed, I fold myfelf todevil for twenty-four years time ; wfull time being out this night, make:full of horror, I have caited you my rnt( 2 3 )fee this my dreadfuj end ; and I pray leiy miferabje death be a warning to you1, how you fiuciy that devilifh art of con-ring ; for if you once begin it, a thouj'andone but it will lead you to the devil,hither I am this night to go, whether' I111 or no.” They hearing of this fad|)ry, blamed him for concealing it fo long,ling'him if he had made them acquaintedfore, they thought it migfiu. have been,evented. He told them,, he'had a defrre:eral times to have difclofed this intrigue ;t the devil told him, that if he did, hemid prefently fetch him away : He alfojd them, he had a defire to join with the|dly, and leave oft' that wicked courfe,t immediately tne devil ufed to come1 torment him, &c. “But now,” faithjftus, “ it is but in vain for me to talkwhat I did intend, for I have (old myfelfthe devil, body and foul is his.” NoTier had he fpoke thefe words, but fud-ly it (ell a thundering and lightening,like was never heard ; whereupon Fauftusnt into the great halt, the do&ors andfters (laying in the next room, intendinghear;'his end. About twelve o’clock theife fnook fo terribly, that they thoughtwould have tumbled down upon their;ds ; and fuddenly all the windows of the■ ( 24)cW; Vrl•ami wiinea n* , witli a whirlwn“h^^oors fl’e“!o«n- m » mighty ruihiljthe (-ioo^s ne ‘ the hfe of ferpcn-oi wind entere , ^ _ v;hicp he lamental]ihrieks xarid there was inch rocried out -^ur „ hi, devits m hinir in the hall, as it au ti - n r'nh , „ .1,ere -when day-light ‘lFI?talhad oeen dae e- eriter the roethey took the y v aten -cut anamft dand found b^T iprinkled with bloowall and th verv terrible to .and his eyes tor ^ drey* wchthoia ; but nmh 1, hpd ;j{ m ,he ^fearch of it, at- t):eceS, _-So ennrnmC4*ieI^i'’8 lih'foTf*km= C'qualifications, was clecen yFI N 1 s-