ACCOUNTThe Royal VisitOFGEORGE THE IVthTOSCOTLAND.Piiilrd ly II. Crawford, Boofackcr,1822.ACCOUNTOFHis Majesty s Visit to Scotland* |^I^HE visit of George the Fourth to the Scottish ri•*- metropolis may well be considered a remark- i:able event in our national annals. Certain it is, (ithat no other event of a domestic nature could thave occurred more honourable to the people of (Scotland, or more gratifying to their feelings.— *Edinburgh is regarded by the Scots with pride, |and a veneration almost religious, of which stran- ►gers to their character can have no adequate con- \ception. It is not merely the capital of the coun- ltry, and celebrated as a seat of science and of li¬terature, but it has still higher claims upon theirrespect as the favourite abode of their ancient mo-narchs—as the scene, in latter ages, of everygreat political transaction in which the nation hasbeen concerned—and as the depository of theonly remaining symbols of its former indepen¬dence. Its castle, its "palace, its courts of jus¬tice, those hallowed vestiges of the olden time,are familiar household words in the remotest dis¬tricts: they axe stili appioached by the provincialScot with the pious feeling of a pilgrim, and never3ii fait to inspire him with all the fervid enthusiasmof patriotism.In the spring, the rumour of the King beingabout to visit Scotland was again revived and im¬plicitly relied on, until contradicted in a form,which, though net official, was so deci andperemptory as to induce the opinion ihactus Ma¬jesty had suspended his gracious intentions. Buti all doubt and uncertainty were soon removed, bya letter received by the Lord Provost of Edin¬burgh, upon the 18th of July, from Lord Vis¬count Melville, Lord Privy Seal for Scotland,intimating, thst iis Majesty-‘had positively re¬solved to visit Scotland during the summer, andmight be expected to reach Edinburgh on or aboutthe 1 Oth of August. The deputy-keeper of Holy-roodhouse received a letter to the same effect, isorder that the necessary preparations might bei made for his Majesty’s reception.The announcement of this intelligenca produc-! ed in Edinburgh a sensation not to be described.1 Various and splendid preparations were instantlyI begun—roads were repaired, arches and platform*erected, buildings offensive to taste removed * —sn order was issued by the civic authorities forpersons to appear In a blue coat, white vest, andnankeon pantaloons, and a St. Andrew’s cross onthe left side of the hat. Holyroodhouse, theCastle, St. Giles’s Church, and the Parliamenr-house, underwent very considerable repairs -Meetings of the Lieurenancy of Scotland, theFaculty of Advocates, the Highland Society, &c.w'ere held, for the purpose of voting dutiful andloval addresses to his Majesty.The ladies of Scotland, at ibis time resident in4■the- taetropyelis, participated largely in the en-»tbusiasm which animated all classes. They de¬legated Sir Walter Scott, the bard of chiralry andromance, to greet the approach of their sovereignto the Scottish sh®re, and to do homage in theirname, by laying a St. Andrew’s Cross, the an¬cient emblem of Scotland, a* the feet of his Ma¬jesty. The design of this elegant offering is chaste,and worthy of the fair hands that formed it. Itconsists of a broad and rich cross of pearls raisedon blue velvet, and enclosed within a belt of gold,on which is embroidered, with pearls, the Gaelicmotto of llipgh Albhain gu brdih.—Hail to theKing of Scotland.—-The belt is attached by a bril¬liant diamond buchle, and from its extremity issuspended a magnificent pearl, the produce ofScotland, and probably the finest ever found inthis country. The whole is surmounted by theimperial crown, girt round with, brilliauts, andrichly decorated w ith rubies, emeralds, and thetopaz, alternating with pearls, in the manner ofthe ancient Scottish crown, long forgotten, butauspiciously brought to light a little before thisperiod. A band with a buckle of Scottish gemsis adjusted, so as to 'admit of this elegent andcostly jewel being worn either on the hat or boundround the aim.His Majesty selected Dalkieth house as his placeof residence—and it was fitted up in a most mag¬nificent and splendid manner. On the 12th ofAugust, wjth all due ceremony, the Regalia ofScotland, were taken from the Castle to the Palace,of Holyrood.On Saturday the 11th of August tire King em-batked at Greenwich for Scotland—‘and on theHth h* arrived in Leith Roads.3When the arrival of Sir Walter Scott alongsidethe royal yacht was announced to the King,“Whatl” said his Majesty, “Sir Walter Scott ?the man in Scotland I most wish to see ! Lethim come up.” This distinguished baronet thenascended the ship, and was presented to the Kingon the quarter-deck, by whom he was most gra¬ciously received ; and, after an appropriate speech,in the name of the ladies of Edinburgh, presentedhis Majesty with the St. Andrew’s Cross, whichhis fair subjects had provided for him. The king,with evident marks of satisfaction, made a gra¬cious reply to Sir Walter, received the gift, andpromised to wear it in public. Sir Walter kneltand kissed the hand of his sovereign.His Majesty, we are most happy to say, thoughhe encountered much rough, weather on his voy¬age, endured no sea sickness^ but on account ofthe badness of the day did not immediately land,Next day, before twelve o’clock, a gunfrom the Royal George announced that the J^inghad entered his barge. The moment the signalwas heard, a shout was raised by the thousandsassembled upon shore, the effect of which was in¬describably striking. When at some distancefrom the shore, his Majesty was saluted by Mr.Kent, who was walking upon the water, to whomhis Majesty bowed. When his Majesty advancedto the landing-place, three distinct, well-timedcheers were given by the tars who manned thesmacks abreast of tke bridge; which was follow¬ed up by the universal shouts of^ all upon theever greeted the ears of a monarch. At twentyminutes past twelve o’flook, his Majesty, who was6*iress*d in an aeJmiral’s uniform, with a thistle anda sprig of heath in his hat, and the St. Andrew’sCross, presented to him in the name of the ladiesof Edinburgh, upon his breast, was alongside tholanding-place. The Marquis of Lothian and SirCharles Bentinck assisted his Majesty to step outof the launch upon the raft, where both thesenoblemen did homage, and the former had thehonour of kissing his Majesty’s hand. The Kingthen ascended the gangway with great alacrity,leaning slightly on the Marquisses of Lothian andConyngham, and was received on the platformby the Lord Clerk Register, who made his obeis-anc;. The shouts of the multitude, the roaringof artillery, ami the warlike notes of the trumpet,now announced the landing of King George IV.upon Scottish ground.After his Majesty was seated in his carriage,Glengary, on hoxseback, forced his way throughevery obstacle, and, advancing close to the royalcarriage, exclaimed, “ Your Majesty is welcomeiO Scoiland a salutation which was returned bya most gracious bow from the King. After theKing had rested a few minutes in his carriage,which was an open landau, hung very low, anddrawn by eight beautiful bays, the drivers beingin state liveries, the .procession moved slowly to¬wards Edinburgh.The King, as he approached his ancient city,was welcomed, not by cheers, but by one runningcheer along the whole line of procession fromfne ipfc iktors "amrjg folding,measure, divided into distinct but contiguous*masses. By each mass, as the King proceeded,7he was saluteJ"by a loud and cordial cheer. TheKing was evidently much moved by these demon¬strations of affection to his royal person Alongthe whole road he frequently raised his hat andbowed to the people, whom he regarded withfixed attention.As the procession advanced towards the city,the Lord Provost, Magistrates* and Town Coun¬cil of Edinburgh, proceeded from the house ofMr. Craufuird to the barrier, (front which wassuspended a variety- ef flags;) and immediatelyordered the gates to be shut, and then took uptheir station upon a platform provided for theiraccommodation. In about ten minutes after, theDepute Lyon King at Arms, and the Usher ofthe Whitt Rod, preceded by two Heralds, gal-lopped up to the gate} and, after a flourish oftrumpets, the Usher of th« White Rod knockedthree times at the gate, which was answered bythe City Officer, to whom it was communicated,that his Majesty desired to visit his ancient cityof Edinburgh. An answer was made by theChamberlain, that the gates would be opened tohis Majesty, which was immediately done } whenthe Depute Lyon King at Arms, and Usher of theWhue Rod, along with the Heralds, returnedwith the answer, and took their places in the pre¬cession.Upon his Majesty’s carriage coming within thebarrier, it was drawn up, when the Lord Pro¬vost, followed by the Magistracy, approachednear to the south side of die roya! carriage; and,after they had made their obeisances, his Majestystood up uncovered, and leaned towards the LordProvost, vvho, holding the cushion on which the» •keys of the city were placed, addressed his Ma-jeflty ;—assuring him of their attachment, and re¬questing his acceptance of the keys of the city ofEdinburgh. His Majesty in a most graciousspeech replied, that the keys could not be placedin better hands, and dropped them upon thecushion.The Lord Provost and Magistrates then return¬ed to their carriages, and took their appointedplaces in the procession. Loud cheers from theimmense assemblage collected around the barrierfollowed this ceremony, by which the King wasformally received within his ancient city.The royal carriage, at the conclusion of theceremony, moved slowly forward about 50 yards,to the point at the end of Picardy Place, whersLeith Street on the left; and York FiiCf1 on theright, are distinctly seen, fhe procession ad-vanced along Picardy Place, York Place, andnorth and south St. Andrew’s Street When theroyal carnage entered St. Andrew’s Square, a dif¬ferent scene, but one of equally unique characterpresented itself. On reaching Prince’s Street, anew scene presented itself to our monarch, whoexclaimed, “ Hifw superb !” The procession nowdescended the Abbey-Hill, and in a few minuteswas in front of the palace.The King was received at the Palace by theDuke of Hamilton, Keeper of the Palace, whohad the honour to kiss hands ; the Duke of Moivtrose, the Lord High Chamberlain, Lord Mel¬ville, the Lord In Waiting, &c.Immediately on his ivlajcoty being seated onhis throne, the Knight Marischal and his two Es¬quires, (who were ready at the low** end of the9room) advanced, bearing the regalia, towards thethrone, and making three reverences; first, at theplace where they were stationed *, secondly, atthe middle of the room ; and, thirdly, at the lootof the throne. The Knight Maiischai then (onhis knee) presented the crown, and the DeputyLord Lyon of Scotland, in obedience to his Ma¬jesty’s command, summoned the Duke of Ham¬ilton to receive it, (on his knee) from the KnightMarischal, and he immediately took his stationon the right hand ef the King. The Knight Mar¬ischal then received Lent his Esquire the sceptre,and presented it in like manner fes the crown.—The Deputy Lord Lyon then summoned LordFrancis Lejrison Gawer, as the representative ofthe Earl of Sutherland, who, on his knee, receiv¬ed the sceptre from the Knight Marischaf, andtook his station on the left hand of the King —The sword of state was in like manner presentedand delivered to the Earl of Errol, who took hisstation on the right hand of the King. TheKnight Marischal then had the honour to kiss theKing’s hand, and retired with his two Esquires,making three reverences, to the lower end of theroom.Immediately afterwards, the Duke of Montroseannounced, that the Lord Provost and Magistratesof Edinburgh were in attendance tq present anaddress. T he Duke, by his Majesty’s command,introduced the Lord Provost and Magistrates andCouncil, who advanced with three reverences tothe foot of the throne, when an address was readby Mr. Cunningham, the senior City Clerk, andwas graciously answered by his Majesty.On Friday, the 16th of August, the day after10his landing, the King remained at Dalkeith-house;and resigned himself to the simple recreations ofrural retirement. The reception which he hadmet with upon his landing, and the orderly anddecorous appearance of his Scottish subjects; theintellectual dignity of their manner, which regu¬lated, and, at the same time, gr.ve a deeper toneto their enthusiasm, were the frequent themes ofhis Majesty's conversation. The same evening,the citizens of Edinburgh did honour to his Ma¬jesty’s arrival by a most brilliant and even gor¬geous illumination.. The streets were crowdedto excess, but nothing could exceed the orderlydemeanour of the people, who moved about withthe same serenity, and nearly the same ease, asif in the enjoyment of an ordinary promenade.The High Street presented a most joyous appear¬ance. Bands of boys paraded about with flamingtorches; and groupes of sailors were observeddancing reels to the sound of the bagpipe. Inthe cour?e of the evening, numberless rocketswere discharged from every quarter. About teno’clock, salvos of cannon were discharged fromthe Castle, Calton hill, and Salisbury Crags, LeithBattery, and the ships of war in the roads; thesolemn pauses between which were interruptedby foux demote from the 13th and 66th regiments,drawn up in front of the Crags.On Saturday, the l7th of August, his Majesty,according to previous announcement, held his firstlevee in Holyrood Palace, the attendance uponwhich was most'numerous and splendid. I heKing arrived at the Palace at a quarter before twoo’clock, having been only nineteen minutes on theroad between Dalkeith and Ho!yrood-ho»se. In] 1complement to the ceuntty, hi* Majesty appeared,in complete Highland costume, made of the roy¬al Stuart tartan, which displayed his manly andgraceful figure to great advantage.About a quarter past four, his Majesty took hi*departure in a carriage and four for Dalkeith, ac¬companied by the Duke of Dorset and the Mar¬quis of Conyngham. On getting into l.'S carriage,his Majesty was surrounded by an immense con¬course of people, who expressed their duty andaffection by loud acclamations, and by the wavingof hats and handkerchiefs. His Majesty repliedto these testimonies of loyalty by waving his handand politely bowing to the people, who continuedto crowd round the carriage, and to run after ita considerable way through the park.On Sunday, Hie 18th of August, in the church¬es of Edinburgh, and in the churches of all theparishes where the intelligence had been received,thanks were offered up for the sale arrival of hisMajesty, in his ancient kingdom of Scotland, andthe Divine blessing implored upon an event s»memorable, and so grateful to the feelings of hispeople. The day was passed by the King in pri¬vacy.On Monday the 19th August, at half past tw«o’clock,' his Majesty held a court and closet audi¬ence at Holyrood Palace. The General Assem¬bly of t1' e Church of Scotland, the Universities,and the Highland Society, presented addresses,and received answers.On Tuesday, the 20th of August, his Majestyheld a drawing-room at the Palace, which watattended by about five hundred ladies of the mostdistinguished rank, fashion, and beauty in Scot-12land. The entire novelty of such a scene, at leastin our metropolis, attracted an immense concourseof spectators, the expression cf whose curiosityand interest could scarcely fail to enhance themingled emotions of satisfaction, anxiety, and ap¬prehension, depicted on the countenance of manyof their fair country-women, who were bornealong in unwanted splendour, to endure for thefirst time the glance of royalty, and receive, withdelicate but proud submission, the familiar salu¬tation which custom has prescribed for such an' occasion.At an early hour on Thursday, the 2^d of' August, the city presented a scene of extraordi¬nary bustle, in consequence of the arrangementswhich had been agreed upon for his Majesty’sprocession to the Castle. The weather was pe¬culiarly unpropitious.About one o’clock the different public bodies,incorporations, and trades, had taken up theground assigned to them, reaching from the pre¬cincts of the Abbey to tl e; Castle-hill; they werein lines two deep, and in many places three.Both sides of the streets were lined by dragoonsand cavalry, stationed in very extended order;and the centre of the streets was kept entirelyclear of all passengers.The different Magistrates were seen at. timesexamining 'the extended files which !;ned thestreet;, and prepared to exert their authority, hadthat been necessary, in preserving older. Wealso obse-Vfd Sir Walter Scott, dressed in theWindsor uniform, walking up the centre of thestreet along with two other gentlemen, and, ashe advanced, casting a glan'ce el lofty enthusiasmIS5pon the marshalled bands of hardy burghers,whose military appearance must have been asso¬ciated, in his mind, with awful but proud recol¬lections. A numb, of those assembled did hom¬age to the genius of the worthy Baronet, by loudlycheering him. The usual Celtic guard, whichmounted daily in the Palace over the Regalia,strengthened early in the forenoon by a detach¬ment of the grenadiers, had been formed into aguard of honour, under the command of Dr.Mackintosh, one of the Captains of the Celts,who, after receiving the Knight Marischal withproper hononts, escorted the Regalia, carried bythe Knight Marischal and his esquires, into theKing’s closet, where they awaited his Majesty’sarrival. The guard w,.s countermarched, anddrawn up on each side of the door, to be in rea¬diness to attend his Grace the Duke of Hamilton,who soon appeared, bearing the Crown of Scot¬land on a crimson velvet cushion. On the ap¬proach of his Grace, the guard filed to the rightand left, in order of procession, the two rear fileswheeling up to close the rear ; and the whole thenproceeded to the front of the Palace. The Crownbeing properly adjusted, the Duke mounted hishorse just as Ids Majesty entered his state car¬riage.About a quarter past two o’clock, the proces¬sion moved horn the Palace at a slow’ pace, whichwas quickened as the procession advanced, owingto the state of tho weather. His Majesty wasdressed in a Field Marshal’s uniform, and lookedextremely w'el!, and in excellent spirits.It would be vain to attempt a description ofthe feelings c.f the multitude as 11*3 regalia ofScotland passed before their eyes, carried trium-pharttly by the ancient nobles ot the land,' whoseancestors had often fought and bled for that in¬dependence of which they v. *re the sacred andvenerable symbols. Upon the crown, carried bythe premier peer of Scotland, all eyes were con¬centrated; and the hearts of all filled and throb¬bed with patriotic emotions, which were expres¬sed in boisterous cheers, as they surveyed thesame diadem that had invested the brows of theroyal Bruce—of his warlike descendants—of thelovely and unfortunate Mary. The cheers thathailed the tegalia were repeated with increasedenthusiasm, accompanied by the waving of hand¬kerchiefs from every window and balcony, as hisMajesty advanced, who acknowledged, the salu¬tations of hb people in the most gracious man¬ner. When the carriage of his Majesty reachedthe Netherbow, six beautiful girls, dressed inwhite, with blue sashes across their shoulders,from which depended the St Andrew's cross, andtheir heads adorned with wreaths, proceeded be¬fore the royal carriage, and strewed the way withflowers.When the King arrived at the barrier-gate, healighted from his carriage on n raised platform,ccvered with crimson cloth, where the Lord HighConstable and Lord Cathcatt were stationed toreceive him. I he keys of the Castle were thentendered to his Majesty, by Lieutenant-GeneralSir Alexander Hope, the Lieutenant-Governor,accompanied by Major-General Sir Thomas llrad-fotd, Commander of the Forces, besides a nu¬merous body of officers belonging to the garrison.Jfis Majesty having returned the keys, walkedISwith a firm step r.long the drawbridge, till com*ing to tl.e inner-gate, he stepped imo anothercarriage, which stood waiting, the grenadier com¬pany of the GG.h regiment forming his guard ofhonour. The procession moved slowly throughthe winding passages of the Castle, till it cameto the half-moon battery, where were erected tw’Oplatforms, raised one upon the other, with a stairleading up to them. The King ascended the up¬per platform, and presented himself to the view'of his admiring subjects. At tliis moment a royalsalute was fired from the guns on the ramparts,and the bands played " God save the King.” Ondescending from the platform, the King proceed¬ed to the Governor’s house, which was elegantlyfitted up for his reception.His Majesty having regained his carriage atthe barrier-gate, the procession returned to thePalace by the Earthen Mound, Prince’s Street*the Regent’s Bridge, and New Road, along thewhole of which an astonishing multitude patientlywaited his approach, and whose loyal greetingsmet him at every step.If, as was complained by some, the Highlandpart of the Scottish population was pressed toomuch upon his Majesty’s notice, the fault w^asamply redeemed by a grand cavalry review, whichtook place on Portobello sands, upon Friday, the23d of August, of the whole volunteer cavalryand yeomanry of the principal lowland districts.We may venture to say, that a finer body of men,better equipped and mounted, or, under the samedisadvantages, better disciplined, never beforepassed under the review of his Majesty. A squa¬dron of the 7th dragoon guards, kept the ground1'6clca^. The other troops of the line present were—the rbya! artillery,- the 3d dragoon gu rds, and 'Scots Grevs. The volunteer troops were—theGlasgow troop of volunteer cavalry ; the Peebles¬shire and Selkirkshire yeomanry cavalry; thePifeshire troop of lancers; the Fifesh-re, Ber¬wickshire. East Eo’-hiin. West Lothian, Rox¬burghshire, and Mid-Lothian yeomanry cavalry.About twelve o’clock, the whole corps, in num¬ber above S000, were formed in a line, extend¬ing upwards of a mile in open order; the regulars,commanded by Colonel Holmes of the 3d dra¬goon guards, and the volunteer corps by Sir JamesBaird, Bart, of Saughtonhall, both officers ofservice and experience, and highly esteemed intire army, with Major-General Sir Thomas Brad¬ford, and his staff, stationed in front, ready toreceive his Majesty.The approach of his Majesty was announcedby hoisting the royal standard upon the quay atPortobello. About twenty minutes past oneo’clock, his Majesty arrived on the field in a closecarriage, drawn by four horses, accompanied bythe Duke of Dorset, Lotd Graves, Lord F.Conyngham, and Sir A. Barnard, and precededby another carriage and four, containing more ofhis suit. The arrival of his Majesty was hailedby the loud acclamations of the assembled multi¬tude ; and a royal salute was immediately firedfrom a battery established on the pier, the colourslowered to the ground, and the pipers playing thePrince’s Welcome,Upon alighting from his carriage, the King wasreceived by rite Marquis of Lothian, Lord Lieu¬tenant of the county, on foot, who afterwards17atteaded his Majesty on horseback, during hisstay on the ground.The King, as soon as he alighted, mountedthe fine light-grey horse, purchased from CornetEdlman; and, being joined by Sir Thomas Brad¬ford and his staff, proceeded from the right alongthe front of the line, guarded by a detachmentof the Greys, and returned from the left, be¬tween the front and rear ranks, in onen order.After passing his Majesty, in excellent style,each column rode off at quick time ; after whichthe whole again took up their original ground,and formed into line. The troops then closedtheir ranks, and advanced in line to within fiftyyards of his Majesty, then halted, and gave ageneral salute, the bands playing “ God save theKing.”His Majesty returned in his open carriage, withthe same attendants who accompanied him, toDalkeith house, where he arrived at ten minutesbefore four o’clock, and afterwards dined alone.On his return, the King passed some warm en¬comiums upon the appearance of the troops andwas heard to say to the Duka of Dorset, that henever was at a review with which he wa* moredelighted.In the evening the King attended a ball, givenby the Peers of Scotland, in the Waterloo HotelAssembly Rooms. He remained only a shorttime present, and returned to Dalkeith-houseabout a quarter past ten o’clock.On the forenoon of Saturday, the 24th ofAugust, the Regalia of Scotland were carriedfrom Holyrood Palace, and re-deposited in the.Crown-room of the Castle. The procession wasXeceived at the barr’ter by a guard of honour of (the 77th regiment; the Lieutenant-Governor, ,Colonel Bromh^adof the 77th, commanding the !garrison; Br.gaoe-Major Lindsay, See. Admit- ■tance to thr. garrison was demanded in the usualform j wb4tch being granted, the procession movedoh to vhe Crown-room, preceded by the aboveofficevsj uncovered. The guard presented arms,the band playing “ God save the King.” Th«C'/own was then carried by the Knight Marischal,\he sceptre by the Honourable J. M. Steuart, andthe sword by Captain Ferguson, Keeper of theRegalia.On the same day, a splendid banquet was givento his Majesty, in the Parliament-house; by theLord Provost, Magistrates, and Town Council ofthe city of Edinburgh. TI\e great Halt, as w«formerly observed, was fitted up for the occasionin a style of superior magnificence. The plat¬form, upon which the King’s table was raised,was covered with crimson cloth; and beneathwere six tables, in three distinct ranges, extend¬ing to the north end of the room. The two nichesin which the Lords Ordinary sit were fitted upas balconies ; in th# one, on the south side ol thedoor, a vocal band was stationed ; and there alsogentlemen connected with the press found ac¬commodation provided for them: in the other,upon the north side, Gow’s celebrated instrumen¬tal band was placed. X military band occupieda position at the nortlv end, immediately underthe city arms. The room was lighted with threelarp* and magnificent lustres, running along, withthree smaller lustres on each side, alt dependingfrom the roef. Four beautifully gilded lustres19were suspended behind the King’s table, and oneat each corner of the north end of the room.At a quarter past fix, the arrival of the Kingwas announced, when the Lord Provost and Ma¬gistrates, and part of the King’s suite, proceededto the carriage and received his Majesty, whomthey accompanied to the Advocates’ Library.About half-past six Bailie Henderson announcedto the Lord Provost, who remained with hisMajesty in the Library, that dinner was servedup. His Majesty immediately entered the Hall,the band playing “ God save the King,” and thecompany standing to receive him. His Majesty,who was dressed in a field-marshal’s uniform,was conducted to his chair of state; and, as headvanced along the room, bowed most graciouslyto all around him,—stopping several times, andaddressing a few words to some of the company.Grace was said by the very Reverend Princi¬pal Baird. During dinner, his Majesty convers¬ed in the most free and affable manner, some¬times with the Lord Provost, and at other timeswith the Earl of Errol. He seemed to be in ex¬cellent spirits. His Majesty partook of turtle andgrotMe soups, stewed carp and venis*u, in thefirst course ; and, in the second course, of grouseand apricot tart. During dinner he drank moselleand a little champaigne, and claret during the restof the evening. He r.;ade use of glasses 200years old, of a very massive and antique form,which had been furnished for his table by SirWalter Scott.A •firm as the King had dined, a silver basin,containing rose-water, was brought to his Majes¬ty by William Howison Ciaufurd, younger ofBraehead and Craufurdland, who, in right of hismother, as proprietrix of Braehead, in the coun¬ty of Mid-Lothian, claims this privilege,—theservice performed being the ancient tenure bywhich the estate of Braehead is held. He wasattended by Masters Charles and Walter Scott,the one a son, the other a nephew, of Sir WalterScott, Bart, as pages, attired in splendid dressesof scarlet and white satin : the former holding asilver ew«r, and the other a salver, with a dam¬ask napkin of Scottish.manufacture, and1 of thefinest texture. In offering the basin, Mr. Howi-son Craufurd knelt down to his Majesty, who,after he had dipped his fingers in the water, andwiped them with the napkin, acknowledged theservice with an affability and grace peculiarly hisown.A great number of healths and toasts weredrunk. About ten o’clock, the company bagafrto retire ; and they broke up about twelve. Allwere delighted with the evening’s entertainment.His Majesty seemed to have been highly gratifiedwith his reception, and with the ardent demon¬strations of duty and affection which he receivedfrom the highly-respectable company assepi .ledaround him.On the forenoon of Sunday, the 25th of Aug¬ust, the King attended divine service in the HighChurch of St. Giles’s. The seat occupied by thaKing was that which is allotted to his Majesty’sCommissioner to the General Assembly, in frontof the gallery, and immediately opposite the pul¬pit. His Majesty, at a quarter past eleven. Rep 'out in a close carriage tor cnurcti irom tlolyroodPaluce, (having arrived only a few minutes pre-21viously,) and where a great multitude were as¬sembled. He was accompanied in his carriage bythe Duke of Dorset, and Lord Glenlyon, theLord in waiting. The appearance of the streetat this time was extremely imposing and charac¬teristic of a Scottish Sabbath. As his Majestypassed, the people reverently took off their hats,but not a voice was raised to hail his appearance!There did not reign in the most sequestered glenof Scotland, a more profownd stillness than wasnow observed in the heart of the city of Edin¬burgh 1On his Majesty’s entry to the church, he wrasreceived by the ministers and elders arrayed in aline within the church door. His Majesty, whohad a sealed packet in his hand, inquired at Prin¬cipal Baird where was the usual receptacle for thecongregation depositing their offerings ? On be¬ing told by the Principal, that it had been remov¬ed on this ocrasion, as an impediment to his Ma¬jesty’s passing ; the King appeared to regret thecircumstance; and putting the packet, which wasendorsed, “ ()ne Hundred Pounds from his Ma¬jesty,” into the Principal’s hand, he desired thatits contents might be applied, with the rest ofthe collection, for the benefit of the poor.The officiating minister on this occasion wasDr. Lament, the Moderator of the General As¬sembly, who commenced the service by givingout the first version of the 100;h Psalm. Hi*Majesty lifted a Psalm Book, and stood duringthe reading i and his example was followed bythe rest ot the congregation. After a most elo¬quent and impressive prayer, the minister adopt¬ed, as the subject of his discourse, the 3d and 4th22verses of the 3i chapter of the epistle to the Co*loss’ans. The sermon of the reverend Doctorwas emiched by e number of sublime passage*of Scripture, and throughout breathed a spirit ofthe most exalted piety. The good tasta of thepreacher was conspicuous in making his applica*tions entirely generai; and the discourse was moreimpressive from its not being read. His Majestyjoined earnestly in the devotional exercises andlistened to the discourse throughout with themost profound attention. When the service wasconcluded, hh Majesty slightly bowed to thePreacher.As the King proceeded to the Palace, the peo¬ple observed the same reverential silence whichthey had done on the previous part of the day.His Majesty left Holyrood exactly at one o’clock,two noblemen being in the carriage with him.In the evening of Monday the 2(ith, a grandball was given to his Majesty in the AssemblyRooms, by the Caledonian Hunt, of which insti¬tution his Majesty had condescended to becomethe patron. The scene altogether was one of un¬common animation and splendour; and nonecontributed more to the hilarity of the companythan his Majesty, who was in excellent spirits.The King left the assembly at eleven- o’clock,bowing to all as he retired.On Tuesday evening his Majesty honoured theTheatre with his presence. The arrangements,and decorations were most splendid,—the audi¬ence was overflowing,—and his Majesty in thehighest spirits. The piece performed was RobRoy. Mr. Mackay, celebrated as Bailie NicolJarvie, played the part with even more than his23umal humour. The King retired from the Boxabout eleven, and even at that hour, a numerouscrowd were waiting to cheer him as he passed ina close carriage to Dalkeith-house.His Majesty, on Wednesday the 28th of Au-fust, visited Newbattle Abbey, the seat of thelarquis of Lothian. As his Majesty drove upthe avenue, he was loudly cheered by the Mar¬quis s numerous tenantry, who lined each side ofit. Immediately on his Majesty’s alighting fromhis carriage, ‘ God save the King’ was played byMr. M'Grath, who attended on the occasion,upon a very superior organ. His Majesty wasconducted to the dining-roona, where a very choiceand splendid collation was prepared.His Majesty, having graciously condescendedto visit the Earl of Hopetoun, had selected PortEdgar, near Queensferry, as the most eligibleplace of embarkation, from its immediate vicinityto Hopetoun-house.t His Majesty, about t'wenty minutes past eleveno clock, prepared to bid adieu to Dalkeith-hous*.He walked down stairs firmly, ani observingMrs Povar, housekeeper to the Duke on3uccleuch,he walked up close to h^r, his countenance ex¬pressive of the greatest benignity, and said, “MrsPovar, I must return you, and all of you, mybest thanks for your gieat kindness and attention.We have wanted for nothing. To have wishedfor, or desired more, would have been unreason¬able,” adding, “ I shall never forget the kindnessI have received, May God bless you all !!!” Thesewere the last words spoken by his Majssty onleaving Dalkeith-house.bhoitly after his Majesty get on board the✓ 24Royai George, preparations were made for weigh¬ing anchcr. At half past five o’clock, the royalsquadron having all sails set, passed the northside of Inchkieth *, and at six o’clock a salute wasgiven from Leith battery, the Castle, Calton-hill,and Salisbury Crags, announcing that the royalsquadron was fairly at sea.On Friday forenoon, the royal squadron pass¬ed Whitby, and a royal salute was fired from thebattery. On the morning of Satuiday the 31st,it passed Yarmouth Roads, through an immensefleet of boats, which had put from shore to hailthe presence of his Majesty. At twenty-five mi¬nutes past four o’clock, on Sunday afternoon, theKing again set his foot on British ground.As his Majesty passed through Greenwich, hewas received with the shouts of the people and thewaving of handkerchiefs. The King alighted atCarlton Palace at a quarter past five o’clock,—When nis Majesty’s arrival was known, the bellsof St. Martin’s, and other churches of the metro¬polis, were rung at intervals for the remainder ofthe evening.^Ye do not profess to have obtained informa¬tion of all the charitable acts of his Majesty dur¬ing his residence in Scotland; and it is probablethat many of these will never become known tothe public ; but his muniicent donations to thedifferent charitable institutions of the city, willlong endear him to the citizens of Edinburgh.FINIS.