THEBEAUTIFULANDINTERESTING ACCOUNT,|OF THBSHEPHERDOFSalisbury Plain.IEDINURGH:Piihted for th^ Booksellers in Town and Country.1/THESHEPHERDOFSALISBURY PLAIN.MR JOHNSON, a very worthy charit¬able gentleman, was traveling some¬time ago across one of those vast plainswhich are known in Wiltshire. It wasa fine summer’s ^veniug, and he rodeslowly that he might have leisure toadmire God in the works of his creation. |His attention was all of a suddencalled off by the barking of a shep¬herd’s dog, and? looking up, he spiedone of those little huts, which are hereand there to be seen on these greatdowns ; and near it was the Shepherdhimself, busily employed with his dog3in collecting together his vast stock ofI sheep. As he drew near, he perceivedhim to be a clean well-looking poorj man, near fifty years of age. His coat,I though at first it had probably been ofone dark colour, had been in a long| course of years so often patched in dif-; ferent sorts of cloth, that it was becomel iiard to say which had been the origi-i Hal colour. But this, while it gave a(j plain proof of the Shepherd’s poverty,equally proved the exceeding neatness,| industry, and good management of hisI wife. His stockings no less proved hergood housewifery, for they were en¬tirely covered with darns of differentcoloured worsted, but had not a hole inthem ; and his shirt, though nearly asC9arse as the sails of a ship, was whiteas the drifted snow, and neatly mendedwhere time had either made a rent orworn it thin. And Mr Johnston wasnot more struck with the decency ofhis mean and frugal dress, than withhis open honest countenance, whichbore strong marks of health, cheerful¬ness and spirit.4r Mr Johnson, who was dn his journeyl^and somewhat fearful, from the appear-|ance of the sky, that rain was at no'great distance, accosted the Shepherdwith asking what sort of weather hethought it would be on the morrow ; “ Itwill be such weather as pleases me,”answered the Shepherd:Though the answer was delivered inthe mildest and civilest tone that couldbe imagined, the gentleman thoughtthe words themselves rather rude andsurly, and asked him how that could be;“ because,” replied the Shepherd, “ itwill be such weather as pleases God,and whatever pleases him pleases me.”He entered into conversation withthe Shepherd in the following man¬ner :—Yours is a troublesome life, honest]friend, said he ; to be sure, Sir, repliedthe Shepherd, it is not a very lazy life;but it is not near so toilsome as thatwhich my Great Master led for my sake,and he had every state and conditionof life at his choice, and chose a hard5one, while I only submit to the lotthat is appointed me. You are expos¬ed to great cold and heat, said thegentleman.—True, Sir, said the Shepherd ; hutthen I am not exposed to great temp¬tations; and so throwing one thing’a--gainst another, God is pleased to' con-1 trive things more equal than we poorignorant short-sighted cre'atures areapt to think. David was happief'whenhe kept his father’s sheep on such aplain as this,- and singing some of hisown psalms-, perhaps, -fftHn e ver'he was1 when he became K^ing of’ Israel 'ariaIJudah. And f cfai^ say;; we sh dtdd n0-ver have had some of the most''beau¬tiful te&ts- in all th6^e' tin§ psalms, ijfhe had riot been a shepherd, which .en¬abled him’- to hiake so many fineJq6mrpari sons- and similitudes, as brie may!, say, from a country lif^, flocks qf1 sheep,hills and vallies, a'nd' Totintajhs^f waVj ; ter.- ■ • :11 ' Here'the Shepherd Stopped, for h<*1 began t o feel he had made too thee, andtalked too long. But Mr Johnson wasso well pleased with what he said, andwith the cheerful contented manner inwhich he said it, that he desired him to ‘go on freely, for that it was a pleasure toliim to meet with a plain man; who,without any kind of learning but what hehad got from the Bible, was able to talkso well on a subject in winch &11 men,high and low, rich and poor, are equal¬ly concerned.My honestyfriend, said the gerttlev-man, I percOive you are well! aoquaiutf-ed with .Scripture. YeSi ^ir,. pretty well),Jblessed he God ! through his mercy Ilearned toread whe# I was a little boyj jthough reading was not so common .when I was a childj as I atp told,through the goodness of Bfavideneei, tand the generosity of the nieh, it islikely to bfecotne now a-days.-r, 1 'heplieve there is no day thjs last thirty Iyears that I h^ve not peeped; into mf |Bible. If we cannot find time to reada chapter, I. defy any man to say- he 1cannot^ find time to read a verse, .and7a single text, Sir, well followed and putI in practice every day, would make no|bad figure at the years end? three hun¬dred and sixty five texts, without the» loss of a moment's time, would makeSa pretty stock, -a little golden trea¬sury, as one may say, from new year'sday to new year’s day ; and if their^children were brought up to it, theywould ‘Ifiok for their texts as naturally| as they do fdr their breakfast.! * No labouring man; it is true, hais soij much leisure as a shepherd, for whiler my flock is feeding, 1 am obliged to befill dstiWg and at isuoh times I can now and'1 .then tap a shoe for children or myself,I which is a great saving to us;; and whilei I am doing.thatpi repeats bit Of a chap-ter, which nmakes the'time pass pleas-I antiy in this wild solitary place, IFij can Say the best ipart:of-my Bible byi,j heart; I believed sholild iiot say the' best part, for every part'is good, butI mean the gfeatest payt. t I have -lcd| but? a lonely life, and have often had« -but little tg'eatphut my Bifile'has fieeft8meat,, drink, and company to riie, as limay say ; and when want and trouble *have come upon me, I do not know 'what I should have done indeed Sir, if j,I had not the promises of this book formy stayv and support.You have had great difficulties then ?said Mr Johnson. Why, as for that,Sir, not more,than neighbour’s fare; Ihave but little cause to complain, andmuch tobe thankful; but I have had somelittle struggles, as I will leave you to-jjudge. I have a wife and eight chil¬dren, whom I breed up in that little ^^cpttage you see under the hill, about?half a mile offi What, that with thesmoke coming out of the chimney, saidthe genitleman ? Ono, Sir, replied theShepherd, smiling, we have seldomsmoke in the evening, for we havelittle to cook, and firing is dear in theseparts. It is 'that cottage which you |see on the leftrhand of the church, nearthat little tuft of hawthorns. What,that hovel with only one room aboveand one below, with scarcely any chinn-TT9j hey; how is it possible you can live therewith any family ? O it is very possibleeland very certain too, cried the Shep-e herd. How many better men have been>Worse lodged, how many good Chris-sltians have perished in prisons and dun-pigeons, in comparison of which my cot-dtage is a palace. The house is very»well, Sir, and if the rain did not some-i times beat down upon us, through thei thatch, when we are in bed, I should: not desire a better, for I have health,: peace, and liberty, and no man makethame afraid.Are you in any distress at present ?a said Mr Johnson. No, Sir, thank God,replied the Shepherd. I get my shil-i ling a day, and most of my children willh be able to earn somethirig; for we have:f only three under five years of age. On-;:ly ? said the gentleman, that is a hea-Svy burden. Not at all: God fits the!back to it. Though my wife is not a-ble to do any out-of-door work, yet shebreeds up our children to such habitsof industry, that our little maids, before12never afford to get them without a litcontrivance. I must shew you how wemanage about the shoes, when youcondescend to call at our cottage, Sir;;as to stockings, this is one way we take!to get them : my young ones, who aretoo little to do much work, sometimeswander quite over the hills, for thechance of finding what little wool thesheep may drop when they rub them-,selves, as they are apt to do, in thehushes. These scattered bits of woolthe children pick out of the brambles,*which 1 see have tore sad holes inMolly’s apron to day : they carry thiswool home, and when they have got apretty parcel togf'cher, their mothercatds it; for she can sit and cardinthe chimney corner, when she is notable1 to wash or work about the house. :The biggest girl then spins it; it doesvery weM for us without dying, forpoor people must not stand upon the^colour of their stockings. After this, 'pur little 'b^ys' knit it for themselves,.when they are employed in keeping.13tows off the fields, and after they getImme at night. As for the knittingjhe girls and their mother do, that isi j hiefly for sale, which helps to pay ourfent.Mr Johnson lifted up his eyes in si-cent astonishment at the shifts which; :ionest poverty can make, rather thanI )eg or steal; and was surprised toiiihink how many ways of subsistingi here are, which those who live at theiripse little ^suspect. He secretly re-I lolved to be more attentive to his pettyAxpences than he had hitherto been :lltid to be more watchful that nothingjffivas waited in his family.But to return to the Shepherd : MrJohnson told him that as he must needs|)e at his friend’s house, who lived manypules off, that night, Op his return|ie would certainly visit the Shepherd’sottage.One Sunday afternoon, my wife be-ng very ill, as 1 was coming out ofdnirch, for I went one part of the day,und my eldest daughter the other, so14my poor wife was never left alone. As:I was coming' out of church, I saw!Mr Jenkins, the Minister, who called j?out to me, and asked me how my wife was, isaying he had been kept from coming^to see-her by a deep fall of snow, and !:indeed from the parsonage house tomy hovel, it was quite imppassable. Igave him all the particulars he asked,and I am afraid a good many more,,for my heart was quite full. He kind¬ly gave me a shilling, and said he'would certainly try to pick out his wayand come and see her in a day or two.While he was talking to me, a plaihfarming looking gentleman, in boots,rwas standing by, and listened to all ;he.said, but seemed to take no notice. Itwas Mr Jenkin’s wife's father, who was1come to pass the Christmas holidays atthe parsonage-house. I had alwaysheard him spoken of as a plain frugal}man, who lived clo6e to himself, butwas remarked to give more away, than"any of his shew-away neighbours.Weil, I went home with great spirits15this seasonable and unexpected re-:f, and I do assure you, my wife waslore thankful when 1 shewed her theilling than I dare say some of youreat people are when they get a hun-(ired pounds. t1 Mr Johnson’s heart smote him whene heard such a value set upon a shil¬ling ; surely, said he to himself, I will^ever waste another; but he said no-/ijliing to the Shepherd, who thus piir-i iued his story.rf Next morning, before I went out, Int part of the money to buy a littleJe, and brown sugar to put into theater gruel; which, you know, Sir,ade it nice and nourishing. I wentut to cleave wood in a farm yard, forhere was no standing out on the plainiter such a snow as had fallen in thelight.. When I came back at night,ny wife fell a crying as soon as she;aw me. This I own I thought but aiad return for the blessings she hadjo lately received* and so I told her.! sard, she, it is tob much,- we are too16rich. I am now frightened, not les *!1we should have ho portion in thit‘iworld, but for fear we should have ouiwhole portion in it. Look here, John *so saying, she uncovered the bed where- *on she lay, and shewed me two warnsnew thick blankets. I could not believe -my own eyes, Sir, because when 1went out in the morning, I had left herwith no other covering than our littleold blue rug. I was still more amazedwhen she put into my hand half a-crown,,telling me she had a visit from MrJenkinson and Mr Jones, the latterof whom had bestowed all these good'things upon her. Thus, Sir, have ourlives been crowned with mercies. Mywife hasgotaboutagain.and I do believe,Under Providence, it was owing to these*comforts; for the rheumatism, Sir,withput blankets by night and flannelsby (fay, is but a baddish job, especially *to people .who have little or no fire.She will.always be a weakly body ; but,thank God,t her soul prospers and is in Igood health. But I begjyour pardon,ITi'ir, for talking at this Vate. Not at11, said Mr Johnson, I am much ploas-dwith yourstory; you shall certainly seefjjie in a few days; (yood night: so say-ig, he slipped a crown into his hand,ji nd rodevoff. Surely,'said the Shep-J erd, goodness and mercy have follow-d me .all the days of my life, as he•have the money to his wife when heI rot home at night.(Mr Johnson having passed someIne with his friend^ set'Qut on his re-irn to Salisbuty, ,a.nd on the Satur¬day evening rOadhed a very small inn,1 mile or two distant from the ; Shep-nerd’s village ; for he never travelledijn a Sunday. He went next morningo the Church nearest the house whereie had passed the night* and after tAk-lijng such refreshmen hr as he could getIt that house, he walked on to find out|he Shepherd’s'cottage.His reason for visiting him*on a Sun¬day was, chiefly because he supposedfit to be the only da^ whidh the . Shep¬herd’s employment allowed him to pass20way of thinking, Molly, said the fathin whatever concerns bodily wants abodily comforts, it is our duty to cotpare our own lot with the lot of thewho are worse off, and this will keepthankful; on the other hand, wheever we are tempted to set up our o"?wisdom or goodness, we must compelourselves with those who are wiser aibetter, and that will keep us humblMolly was now so hungry, and fontthe potatoes so good, that she had ttime to make any more remarks, b?was devouring her dinner very heartil:when the barking of tire dog drew hiattention from her trencher to the doOandi spying the stranger, she cried onlook father, see here, if yonder is ntthe good gentleman. Mr Johnson fineing himself discovered, immediate?walked in, and was heartily welcomeby the honest Shepherd, who told hiwife that was the gentleman to whofthey were so much obliged.After the first salutations wetfover, Mr JohttSon said,,.if they woultT21o on quietly with their dinner, he^ould sit down. Though a good dealilshamed, they thought it most respect3 obey the gentleman, who havinglast his eye on their slender provisidns,Ifently rebuked the Shepherd for notlaving indulged himself, as it was Sun-; lay, with a morsel of bac»n to relish hispotatoes. The Shepherd said nothing,,»ut poor Mary coloured and hung downier head, saying, indeed Sir, it is not|ny fault, I did beg my husband to al¬low himself a bit of meat out of your.•onours bounty, but he was too goodJo do it, and it is all for my fare. TheilBhepherd seemed unwilling to come totin explanation, but Mr Johnson de¬sired Mary to go on. So she continu-sd: You must know, Sir, that both ofqs, next to sin, dread a debt, and in¬feed, in some cases, a debt is a sin; butwith all our care and pains we havenever been able to quite pay off thedoctor’s bill, for that bad fit of therheumatism which I had last winter.22Here the grateful woman’s tears raidown so fast that she could not go onShe wiped them with the corner of heapron, and humbly begged pardon fomaking so free.Indeed Sir, said the Shepherd, thoug!my wife is as unwilling to be in debt a;myself, yet could hardly prevail orher to consent to my paying the monejjust then, because she said it was hareI should not have a taste of the gentleman’s bounty myself.Are you not a little two cautious, mjhonestfriend,said Mr Johnson. I hum¬bly ask your pardon, Sir, replied theShepherd, for I think that impossible.In my poor notion I no more under¬stand how a man can be too cautious,than how he can be too strong andhealthy.Just as they were in this part of theconversation, Mr Jenkins, the clergy*,man, came in. After the usual saluta¬tion, he said, Well, Shepherd, I wishyou joy ; I know you will be sorry togain any advantage by the death of a23eighbour, but old Wilson, my clerk,as so infirm, and I trust so well pre¬pared, that there is no reason to be sor+for bis death, t have been to prayjjy him, and he died while I staid.I have always intended.that youi hoidd succeedin his place; it is no greatflatter, but every little is something.No great matter, Sir, cried the Shep-erd, indeed it is a great thing to me;; will more than pay my rent. Bless-d be God for all his goodness. Marysaid nothing, but lifted up her eyes fullf tears in silent gratitude.O Sir, cried the Shepherd, how canever be thankful enough for such bless-bgs ? And will my poor Mary have ary thatch over her head ? and shall I behie to send for the doctor when I amkely to lose her ? Indeed my cup runs>ver with blessings. I hope God willive me humility. Here he and Mary^oked at each other and burst intoears. The gentlemen saw their dis-ress, and kindly walked out upon theittle green before the door, that thesehonest people might give vent to theilfeelings. As soon as they were alon®they crept into one corner of the roomlwhere they thought they could not be!seen, and fell on their knees devouthblessing and praising God for his merlcies. Never were heartier prayers pre1-sented than this grateful couple offer¬ed up for their benefactors.Mr Johnson took his leave, promisingto call on the worthy Minister anth]s new Clerk once a year, in his summer’s journey over the plain, as long a;it pleased God to spare his life.We hope he will never fail to givus an account of these visits, which wshall be glad to lay before our readersif they should contain instruction oamusement.FINIS.