ooo|o°:o•ojoo.0oo[' oojoloojo|oooo;o|oC£loEoto10pjo0,000000000000000000A CHOICEDROP of HONEY' PROM THEFALKIRK:PRINTS6 v.v v HNSTON,1807.o)o)0)ojO)O)o)o)Rock CHRIST: o\°)OR,A Sh(3*t Word of AdviceTO ALLSaints and Sinners.+-►+-*■ 4+++-W-+++++-i-+-f'-H-+++++++++4.+++4.By THOMAS WILCOCKS.++4-r 4-r++-W-+4-++-H-++++^ ^4.++^.j,++++The Forty fourth Edition.O)°)O)O)O)°)O)°)a)O)°)O)O)O)•)°)O)o)o>O)°>O))O)O)4^-3 ®®.o 0 00 oooooooooo oOChoice Drop of HoneyTKOM THEPtock Christ.A-0 —Word of advice to my own heartand to thine: Thou art a profeffer, and partakeft of ordanances ; thou doft well: the1?are glorious privileges. But if thou htH: nothe blood of Chrill at the root of thy profeffion, H will wither and prove but painte<pageantry to go to hell in.If thou retain guilt, or felf-rightoufnefsunder it, thofe vipers will eat out all thvitals of it at length. Try and examinewith the greateft ftridtnefs, every day, whabottom thy profeffion and hope of thy glor;is built upon, whetwer it was laid by thhand of Chrifl; if not, it will never be ablto endure the ftorm that muff come agninlit. Satan will throw it all down, and greawill be the fall thereof! Matth, vii. 27.Glorious profeffor, thou {halt be vviynowecevej-v vein of thy nrofeflion will be tryed tpurpofe, It is 'err’b'e to have it all rumfcling down, and to find nothing but it to botom upon.( 3 )Soaring profeflbr, fee to thy waxen wingsictimes, which will melt with the heat oftemptations. What a mifery is it to tradelurch and break at length, and have no flock,jo foundation laid for eternity in thy foul.Gifted profeffor, look there be not a wormt the root that will fpeil all thy fine ground,tad make it die about thee, in a day of fcorch-igs. Look over thy foul daily, and alk•here is the blood of Chrift to be feen upon|y foul? What righteoufnefs is that I (landijoon to be faved ? Have I got off all inylif-rightoufnefs ? Many eminent profelforsjive come at length to cry out, in the lightthe ruin of all their duties, “ Undone,iidone to all eternity.”JConfider the greatell fins may be hid underfe greatell duties, and the greatcfl terrors.e the'wo md that fm hath made m thy foul• perfedlly cured b -the blood ot Chrifl; notr.ned over with du’ies, humblings, en-. -gements, &c. Apply what tuou will be¬es the blood of Chntl, it will poiion thee Thou wilt find that fin was never mor-'-d - ruly; hat thou haft not feen Chi illyding for t.i'et* upon the crofs; nothing■' kdl it, but the beholding of Chrifl’s right-inefs. " .NatureIL -■ •( 4 )%Nature can afford no balfam fit for foulcure. Healing from duty, and not frorjChrifi:, is the mo ft defperate defeafe. Pocfragged nature, with all its highelt improve!ments, can never fpin a garment fine enough)without-fpot, to cover the foul’s nakednefslNothing can fit the foul for that ufe, bu|Chrift's perfect rigbteoufnefs.VThatfoever is of nature’s fpinning mu|be all unravelled, before the rigKteoufneilof Chrift can be put on. VVhatfoever is dnature’s putting on, fatan will come anl:-plunder it every rag away, and leave tb 1foul naked and open to the wrath of GouAll that nature can do, will never make *ithe leaft drom of grace that can mortify fiior look Chrift in the face one day.Thou art a profeffor, goeft on heArin;praying and receivenig, yet miferable maye r~thou K. Look about thee, didft thou et'yet fee Gerift to this day , in difiinction fro 1all other excellencies and righteoufnefs rthe world, and all tuefe falling before r.majefty, of his love and grace, Ifa. ii. 17.If thou haft feeu Chrift truly thou h ifeetj pure grace, pur. rigcteoulbefs in hi:ievery way infinite far. exceeding1 all fin trJ.nifery! If thou haft feen Chrift, thou ca,tram(trample cn all nghieoufnefii or men and• angels, fo as to bring thee into acceptationwith God. If thou hall leen Gfenli, thouwouldlt not do a duty without him for tenthoufand worlds, x Cor. ii 2. If thou everfawell Chrill, thou fa weft him. a rock, higher! than felf-righteoufnefs,fatan and fin,Pf. Ixi. 2.| and this rock doth follow thee, (1 Cor. x. 4.)with continual droppings of honey andu grace out of thatjrock to fatisfy thee, Pfalm1: Ixxxi. 16. Examine if ever thou haft be-| held Chrift as “ the only begotten of thel Father, full of grace and truth,’’ John i. 14..1 Be fure thou art come to Chrift, that thouSw.ftandeft upon the rock of ages, haft anfvver-ed to his call to thy foul, haft elofed withhim for juftification. .Men talk bravely of believing, whilftwhole and found, .few know it. Grace themyftery of Chrift. Believing is-the molt1 wonderful thing in the world. Put anythingof thine own to it, and thou fpoileft it:1 Chrift will not fo much as look at it for|believing. When thou believed and comeltjto Chrift, thou muft leave behind thee thyiovvn rightoufnefs, and bring nothing but thy, jftn, (O that is hard!); leave behind all thyliohmefs, falsification, duties, humblings, &c.iand bring nothing but thy. wants and mife-ries, f.'ife Chrift in not fit for thee, nor thoufor C Sr ill. Chrift will be a pure Redeemerand Mediator, and thou mult be an undonefirmer, or Chrift and thou wilt never agree;it is the h irdeft thyig in>the world to takeC'rift: alone for righteoufnefs; that is, to ac¬knowledge him Chrift. Join any thing tohim of thy own, and thou un Chrifts him.Whatever comes in. ■when thou goeft toGod for acceptation, (btftdes Ghn(i) callit Antichrift ; bid it bt; gone: make onlyChrilVs righteoufnefs uiumphant: AU be-fides that, is jpabyloiv, which muft fall, ifChrift ftand, and thou flialt rejoice in tl'*iday y.f the fail thereof, Ifa. i. 10. Chrittalone d*d “ tread the wmt- prefs, and there |was none with him,'’ Ifa. Ixiii. 3. If thou 1join any thing to Chrift, he will trample |upon it with fury and angSr, and ftain hisraiment with the blood thereof. Thou I-thinkell it eafy to believe; was ever thyifaith tried with an hour of temptations, arid!a thorough fight of him? Was it ever putto grapple with fatan? and the wrath of Godlying upon the confcience? When thouwaft in the mouth of hell and the gra\rethen did God fhow thee Chrift a rarrlbmi(1)It rlcbteottFnefs, ^c.? Then couldeR thou favFit ° _ i *“p! I lee enough of grace in Chrilti Thoufriajeft fay fliat which is the biggeit word hi;he v;orld, Thou believclt. Untired laith isuncertain faith.To'believing, there mu ft go a dearponviclion of fin, and the merits of theolood of Ghrift, an^ of Chrift’s willingnefs:o fave upon this coufideratinn merely, Thatjhou art a linner ; things al, .harder than tomake a world. All the phver in nature can¬not get up fo high in a ftonn of fin and guilt,really to believe, there vs any grace, anyIvillingnt/s in Chrilt to fave When fatauiharged fm upon the concience, then for theto charge ft upon Chrift, that is gofpel-: that is to make him Chrift, he fervesor that ufe. To accept Ckrill’s-righteoufne'slone, his blood alone for falvation, that init lum of the gofpel. When the foul, in11 its dut 5 and diftreftes, can fay, No-ing but Chrift, Chrift alone, fur righteouf-eft, juftiftcation, fanctification and redemp¬tion, x Cor. i. 3 A*, not humbUngs, not duties,. i<ot graces Stc. that foul hath got above the,!(j each of the billov/s.All temptations, fatan’s advantages, ouromplainings^ are laid in feli-righteoufnefs.andand fslf-excellcr.cy: God purfije-tn thefe, ! jfitting upon thee, as Laban did Jacobfor !us images : thefe mu ft be torn from thee,be as unwilling as thou wilt; thefe hinderChrift from coming in* and till Chrift comein, guilt will not go out; and where guilt is,there hardnefs of heart: And therefore muchguilt argues little, if anything, of Chrift.When guilt is raifed un, take heed ofgetting it allayed anr way but by Chrift’sblood, that will tend to hartining; makeChriftthy peace, F.ph. ii» 14. not thy duties, thytears, See. Chrift thy.rightoufnefs, not thygraces, &u Thou m aye ft deftrcV Chriltby duties as well as by fnjs. Look at Chrift,and do as niudh as thou wlH. Stand withall, thy weight upon Ghrift’s righteoufnefs;take heed of having one foot on thy ownrighteoufnefs and another on Chrift’s. TillChrift come and fit on high up an a throne ofgrace in the confeience, there is flothing butguilt, terrors, fecret fufpicicr.s; the foiilhanging between hope and fear, which is anungolpel-like ftate.He that fears to fee fin's utmoft vilenefs,the utmoft hell of his own heart, he fufpe&sthe merits of Chril|. Be thou never fucha great finner, try Ghrift, to make him theAd vo-in*^s. fears, dorms of confcience, look atphcidcontinually;do not ar^ue it with iatan,jie dcftres no better, bid him go to Chrift,ind he will anfwer him: it is his office to betmr Advocate, i John ii. I. his office to an-.werlawas ourSurety,Heb.vii.22-iisoffice tomfwer julirce, as our Mediator, Gal. hi. 20.|c Tim. ii. 5. and he is fworn to that office,ieb. vii. 20, 21. Put Chnd upon it. Ifihou wilt do any thing thyfelf, as to f'atil-;a£lion for fin, thou renounced Chrift the(ighteous, who was made fin for thee, 2 Cor.\ 22, Satan may alledge, and corrupt fcrip-ure, but he cannot anfwer fcripture. Its Chrid’s word of mighty authority; Chril’coiled fatan with it, Mattb. iv. 10. In .alline fcripture there is not an ill word againli] poor iinner, dripped of felf-righteoufuefs :! iy, it plainly points out this man to be thebjed of the grace of the gofpel, and noneIfe, Believe but Chrift s williugnefs, and• i tat will make thee willing. If thou findedton cand not believe, remember it is Chrid’syork to make thee believe; put him upon, he “ works to will and to do of his trood. kafure, Phil. ii. 13. Mourn for thy un¬belief.belief, which is a fcttirtg up of guilt in t^elconlcience above Curiil, an undervaluing themerits of C. rill, accounting his blood an un¬holy, a conunon, and an unlatialying tiling. ,I hou corn plained much of thyfelf. Doth tthy fin make ihee lo« k more at Ghrifl:, andlefs at thyielf? T.iat is right, stherwift com¬plaining is but hypocrify. To be lookingat'duties, graces, enlargements, when thouihouldell be looking at Chrilt, that is pitiful:Looking at them will but make thee proud, ^looking at Chrili’s grace will make thee ,:;u'tumble : “By grace you are faved,” Eph. 1ii. 5. In all thy temptations, be not dif- Jcouraged, James i. 2. Thofe fccurges may '■be, not to break thee, but, to heave thee off11thyfelf, on the rock Chrift. ' ?Thou mayeft be brought low, ev«n tolie brink of hell, ready to tumble in; thoucanft not be brought lower than the belly ofhell, many faints have been there, even dowfedin hell, yet there thou mayeft cry, there thoumayeft look towards his hely temple, Jonah -ii. 4. Into that temple none might enter butpurified ones, and with an offering too, Actsjtvi. 26. But now Ghrift h our temple, fac-rifice, altar and high prieft,to whom none mult !come but finners, and that without any offer- ■ing.i.ng, but “ his own blood once offered,” Heb;jtfii. 27.Re no ember all the patterns of grace thatjpre in heaven. Thou thinkelf, Oh! whata monument of grace wouldll thou be !—>There are many thoufands as rich monu¬ments as thou canft be. The greatefl finne'r'did never pafs the grace of Chrift. Do notdefpair: Hope Hill, when the clouds areblackell; even then look towards Chrift, theHanding pillar of his Father’s love and gjrace,|et up in heaven for all finners to gaze uponcontinually. Whatfoever fatan or confci-ijence fay, do not, conclude again It thyfelf,thrift ihall have the laft word; he is Judge,iof quick and dead, and muft pronounce thefifinal fentence: His blood fpeaks rei.oncilia-!ion, Col. i. 20. Cleanftng, 1 John i, 17.h’rchafe. Acts 20 28. Redemption, 1 Pet.. tp. Purging, Htb. ix. 13. 15. Re-niffi -n, verfe 22. Liberty, Heb. x. 19.unification, Rom. v. 9. Nigftnefs to God,Hpb ii. 13. Not a drop of his blood ftiali beoft. Stand‘and hearken to what God willj ay, for he will fpeak peace to his people that[hey return no more to folly, Pfal. Ixxxv. 8.jj le i'peaks grace, mercy and peace, 2 Tim.j, 2* That is the language of the Father,and( I* )and of Clift ^ Waii f >r Chrift’s rppeciring I,as the morning lt.*r, R v. xxii 19. Heiball as certainly as the m rning, as refrefh-ingly as the rain, Hof. vi. 3.The fun n'iy as well be hindred from rif- iing,asChriltihefunofrightoufaefs,Mal.iv.2. iLook not a moment olf Chrill. Look not1on fm, but look on Chriil firll: when thoumourneft for fin, if thou doll not fee Chriftthen, away with it, Zech. ii. 16. In everyduty look at Chrifi; before duty to pardon,in duty to afiifl, after dnty to accept.—Without this it is earn?.!, carlefs duty. Donot legalirx; the gofpel, as if part did remainfor thee to do and fuller, and Chrift were butan half-Mediator, and thou muft t^ar partof thy oun fin, make part fatisfa£lion. Letfin break thy heart, but not thy hops inthe gofpel.Look more at juftifioation than fan&ifi-cation. lu the higheft commands confiderChrifl, not as an exaftor, to require, buta debtor, and an undertaker, to work. Itthou haft looked at workings, duties, qualifi¬cations, See. more than at the merits ofChrift, it will coil thee dear: No wonderthou goeft complaining. Graces may be :evkleno.s, the merits cf Chrift alone, with¬out( x3 )out them muft be the foundation of thy hopeto bottom on. Chriit only can be the hopeof glory, CoJ. i. ^7.When we come to God, we muft bringnothing but Chrift with us. Any ingredi¬ents or any previous qualifications of ourown, will poifon and corrupt faith. Hethat builds upon duties, graces, &c. knowsnot the merits of Chrift. This makes be¬lieving fo hard, fo far aGove nature; if t oubelieveft, thou muft every day renounce ^asdung and drofc, Phil. ill. 7, 8.) thy privi-liges, thy obedience, thy baptifm, thy fan£t-tification, thy duties, thy graces, thy fcears,thy meltings, and thy humblings, and nothingbut Chrift muft be held up; every day thyworkings and thy fclf-tufticiency muft be de-ftroved. Thou muft take all out of Cod’shand. Chrift is the gift, of God, John iv. 10.Faith is the gift of God, Eph. ii. 8. Par¬don is a free gift, Rom. v. 16. Ah! hownature ftorras, frets, and rageth at this, that ■all is of gift, and it can purchafe nothingwith its attings, and tears, and duties; thatall workings rye'excluded, and cf no valuein heaven.It nature had been to contrive the wayof falvation, it would rather have put it inthe( H )the hands of faints or angels, to feil it, thanof Chrift, who gives freely, whom thereforeit fufpecls; it would have a way fet up topurchafe by doing: Therefore it abominatesthe merits of Chilli, as the mo If deiirudlivething to it. Nature would do any thing tobe laved, rather than to go to Chriit, or clolswith him ; Chrift will have nothing ; the foulwill force fomewhat of its own upon Chrift.Here, in that great controverfy, confider,didft thou ever yet fee the merits of Chrift,and the infinite fatisfa£lion ■ made by hisdeath ? Didft thou fee this when the burthenof fin, and the wrath of God lay heavy onthy confcience ? that is grace. The great-nef: of Chrift’s merit is not known but toa poor foul as the greateft lofs. Slight con-vi61 ions will but have flight prizings ofC..rift’s blood, and merits.Defpairing firmer! Thou lookeft on thyright hand and on thy left, faying, u Whowill lliow us any good?” Thou art tumb¬ling over all thy duties and profeflions, topatch up a righteoufnefs to fave thee. Tookat Chriit nbv\\ ” Look to lym, and be faved,air the ends of the eartbd’Ifa. xlv. 21. Thereis none elfe. He is a SaViouf, and there ■is none befides him, verfe 21. Look any¬where( 15 )where elfe, and thou art undone- God willlock at nothing but Chrift, and thou muftlook at nothing eilh, Ghrift is lifted up onhigh, as the brazen ferpent in the vvildernefs,that finners at the ends of the earth, at thegreatefl dillance, may fee him, and look to¬wards him. The leafl fight of him will befaving. and the lead touch healing to thee;and God intends thou fhouldelt look on him,for he hath fet him upon a high throne ofglory, in the open view of all poor finners.Thou hall infinite reafon to look on him,but no reafon at all to look off him ; forhe is meek and lowly of heart, Matth. xi. 26:He will do that himfelf which he requiresof his creatures, viz. bear with infirmities,(Rom. xv.1.) not pleafing himfelf, not ftand-ing upon points of law, (verfe 2 ) He willre {lore the fpirit of meeknefs, (Ga!. vi. 1.)I and bear the burthens, (v-er. 2.) He willforgive, not only till feven times, but tillfeventy-times-feven, Matth. xviii. 21, 22.Itvjuut the faith of the apollle to it, to believethis, Luke xvii. 4, 5. Becaufe we are hardto forgive, we think Chrift is hard."We fee fin great, we think Ghrift doth fo,and thus meafure infinite love with our line,infinite merits with our fins, which is thegreatell( i6 )greateft pride and blafphemy, Pfal. ciii. rt.Ifa. xl. 15. Hear what he faith, ‘‘ I havefound a raniora,” Job xx^lii. 24. “ In himI am well pleafed,” Matth. iii. 17. God willhave nothing elfe; nothing elfe will do theegood, or fat sfy confidence, but Chrift, whofati^fied the Father. God doth all upon theaccount of Ghrift. Thy deft-rts are hell,wrath, rejedl on. Chrill’s deferts are life,pardon, and acceptation. He will not onlyfhow thee the one, but he will give the other.It ;s Chr.ft’s own glory and happinefs top t d >n. Gonfider whilft Chrift was on the* earth, he was more among publicans andTinners, than among. Scribes and Pharifees,his profefled adverfaries: for they were righ¬teous ones. It is not as then imagineft, thathis ftate in glory makes him neglectful, fcorn-ful to poor finn^rs: no, he hath the fameheart now in he w n, he is God, and chang-eth not: “He is tne Lamb of God, that tak-eth away the fins of the world,’’ John i. 29.he went through all thy temptations, dejec¬tions, fo-rows, ddertions, and rtjeiftions,Matth. iv. 3,—26. Mark xv. 24. Lukexxri. 44. Matth. xxxvi. 38 ; and hath dt;unkthe bittereit of the cup, and left thee thefvveet; the condemnation is out, Chrifi drank'i op all the Father’s wrath at cine draught;t and nothing but lalvation is left to thee. ’[ Thou fayelt tiiou canll not believe, thoucanft not repent: Fitter for Chrift, if thouhaft nothing but lin and mil’ery. Go toChrift with all thy impenitency and unbelief,to get faith and repentance from him; thatis glorious. Tell Chrift, “ Lord, I havebrought no righteoufnefs, no grace, to beaccepted in or juftified by: I am come forI thine, and mull have it.” We would bebringing to Chrift, and. that muft not be;not a penny of nature’s higheft improve¬ments will paL in heaven. Grace will notftand with wor.k , Titus iii. 5. Rom. xi. 6.1 That is a terrible point to nature, whichcannot think of being ftript of all, not havinga rag of duty or righteoufi'^fs left to look at.Self-righteoufnefs and fell- * fficiency are thedarlings o» nature, which Ihe prel’erves asher lite; that makes Chrift feem ugly tonature, nature cannot define him; he is juftdiredlly oppofite to all nature’s gloriousimereits. Let nature but make a gofpel,Iand it would make it quite contrary toChrift. It would be to the juft, the innocent,j the holy . See. Chrift made the gofpel forthee, that is, for needy fmners, the ungodly,the1 - ——ijL ' -( i8 )the unrighteous and the accurfed. Naturecannot endure to think the gofpel is onlyfor finners; it will rather chufe to defpairthan to go to Chrift, upon fuch terribleterms. When nature is but put to it byguilt or wrath, it will go to its old hauntsof feif-rightoufnefs, felf-gdodnefs, 8cc. Aninfinite power mufl call down thefe ftrongholds. None but the felf-jufticiary Handsexcluded out of the gofpel; Chrill will lookat the moll abominable finner before him,becaufe to .fuch an one Chnit cannot bemade jufiification; he is no linner. To favin compliment, I am a finner, is eafy, butto pray with the publican, indeed, Lord,be merciful to me a finner,” is the hardellprayer in the world. It is eafy to fay, I be¬lieve in Chrift: but to fee- Gurilt full ofgrace and truth, of whole fulnefs thou mayllrecieve grace for grace; thar is faying. Itit is eafy to profefs Chrill with the mouth;but to confefs him with the heart, as Peter,to be the Chrill, the Son of the living God,the alone Mediator; that is above flcfii andblood. Many call Chrill a Saviour; fewknow him fo. To fee grace and falvationin Chrill, is the greatell fight in the world;none can do thar, but at the fame timethey.f 19 )they fnali lw£ t'^at glory and faH'atlon to betheirs. Sights will caufe applications. Imay be afhamed to think, in the midlt of fo, much profeffion, that I have known little of: the blood of Chrift, which is the main thing■ ol the gof^l. A^G r ftlefs, formal prpfef-! fion, will be the blacked light, next to hell,I that can be. Thou mayell have many good1 things, arid yet one thing may be a-wanting," that may mal^e thee go away forrowful from, Chrift.- Fhou hafl never fold all thou haft,1 never parted with ^jl thine own righteouf-nefs, &c. 1 hou mayft be high in duty, andjet a perfed enemy and adverfary to Chrift,in every prayer, and in everv ordinance.Labour after fandification to thy utmoft;but make not a Chrift of it, to fave thee;if fo, it mult come down one way or other.Chrilt's infinite fatisfadion, not thy ianc-tification, muft be tiiy julHlication beforeGod. When the Lord iiiall appear terribleout of his holy place, fire ftiall confumethat as hay and ftubble. This will be foundreligion, only' to Bottom all upon the ever-Jalling mountains of God’s love and gracein Chrift, to live continually in the fight ofChrift’s infinite righteoufnefsand merits,theyare fandifying, without them the heart iscarnal,carnal, and in thofe fights to fee the f illvilenefs, yet littlenefs of fin, and to fee allpardoned; in thofe fights to pray, hear, 8tc. >fse;ng thy polluted felf, and all thy weakperformances accepted continually; in tholefights to trample upon lill thy^ felf-glories, ;righteoufnefs, and privileges, as abominable,and be found continually in the righteoufnefsof Chrifi; only, rejoicing in the ruins of thyown righteoufnefs, the fpoiling of all thy ownexcellencies, that Chrilt alone, as Mediator,may be exalted in his throne, mourningover all thy duties, how glorious foever,that thou halt not performed in the fight and 'ienle of GhriR’s love: without the blood of jChrilt on the confcience, all is dead iervice,Heb. xi. 14.That opinion of free will, fo cried up,will be eafiiy confuted, as it in in the fcrip-ture, in the heart, who hath made any fpi- 'ritual dealing with Jefus Chrift, as to theapplication ol his merits, and fubjedtion tohis righteoufnefs. Chrilt is every-way toomagnificent a perfon for a poor nature to ; i•clofe withal, or to apprehend. Chrilt is fo■infinite!* holy, nature can never believe himto be Inch, when it lies nnder full fight of fin.Chrilt is too high and glorious for naturefa4( 21 )fo much as to touch. There muft be adivine nature firft pi^t into ti>e foul, to makeI it lay hold on him, he lays fo infinitely be-Iyond the fight or reach of nature.That Ghrift which natural free will canapprehend, is but a natural Chrift, of a man’sown making; not the Father’s Chritl, norJefus the Son of the living God, to whomnone can come without the Father’s draw¬ing, John vi. 44. 46. Finally, Search theIfcriptures daily, as mines of gold, whereinthe heart of Chrift is laid. Watch againftConllitution fins; fee them in their vilenefs,and they fliall never break out into aft.Keep always an humble, empty, and bro¬ken frame of heart, fenfible of any fpiritualmifcaniage,. obfervant of all mwf.rd work¬ings, and fit for the hightfl communications.|i' Keep not guilt in the confidence, bufc applythe blood of Chriil immediately. God charg-eth fin and guilt upon thee, to make theelook to Ghrift the brazen ferpent.Judge not Ghrifi’s love by providences,but by promifes. Bl-.i’s God for lhaking offfulfe foundations, and for any way wherebyhe keeps the foul awakened and lockingafter Chrift; better fickneffes and tenaptuti-} oas, than fecnrity and fhghtnefs. A fl'ghty. fpirit( 22 )fpirit will turn a profane fpirit, and will finand pray too. Slightnefs is the bane of pro-feffion, if it be not rooted out of the heart,by conflant and ferious dealings with, a»idbeholdings of Chrifi in duties; it will .growmore ffrong and more deadly, by being un¬der church ordinances. Meafure not thygrace by others attainments, but by fcrip-ture trials. Be ferious and exadt in duty,having the weight of it upon the heart; butbe as much afraid of taking comfort fromduiies, as from fins. Comfort from any handbut Chrift is deadly. Be much in prayer,or you will never keep up much communi¬on with God. As you are in clofet-prayer,fo you will be in all other ordinances.. Reckon not duties by high expreflions,but by low frames, and the beholdings ofCiirilf! Tremble at duties •Mid gifts. It wasthe faying of a great faint. He was moreafraid of his duties than his fins; the oneolten made -him proud, the oilier alwaysm, de him humble. Treafure up manifefta-tions of ChrilRs love, they make the heartlow for Ciirill, too high for fin. Slight notthe iowell, meanelt evidences of grace : Godmay put thee to make ufi* of the lowe't asthou thinks ; even 'her i John iii. 14. thatmay be worth a thouland worlds to rhee.B«( 23 )'Be true to truth, but not turbulent andfcornful; reltore fuch as are fallen, helpthem up again with all the bowels of Chrift. “Set the broken disjointed bones with thegrace of the gofpel. O high profeffor, de-fpife not weak faints; thou mayll come towilh to be in the condition.of the meaneltofthem. Be faithful to otkers’ infirmities, butfenfible of thy own. Vifit fick beds and de¬fected fouls much, they are excellent fcho-lars in experience.Abide in your calling: be dutiful to allrelations, as to the Lord. Be content withlittle of the world; little will terse. Thinkevery little of the earth much, bec;»ufe un¬worthy the 'eafi. Think much of heavennot too little, becaufe Chrift is fo rich andfree. Think every one better, than thyfelf;and carry ever ftlf-lcalhing about thee, asone fit to be trampled upon by all faints.See the vanity of the world, and the con-fumption that is upon all things, and . lovenothing but Chriil. Mourn to fee fo littleof ChfiR in the world, fo tew needing him;trifiles pleafe them better. To a fecure foulChriflis but a fable, theferiptures butaUory.'Mourn, to t1 ink, how many are under bap-rtifm and church-order, that are not undergrace;( 24 )grace; looking much after duty, obedience,but little after Ch rift, little verfed in grace.Prepare for the crofs; welcome it, bear ittriumphantly, like Chrift’s crofs, whether.feoffs, mock'mgs, jeers, contempt and im-prifonmems, See. but fee it to be Chrift’scrofs, not thine own.Thou had feen Chrift all, and thyfelfabfolutely nothing, who makeft Chrift allthy life} and are dead to all righteouinefs be-fides? Thou art the Chriftian, one highly be¬loved, and who hath found favour with God,a favourite of heaven. Do Chrift thft onefavour for all his loye to thee, Love all hispoor faints and churches, the meaneft, theweakeft, notwithllanding any difference injudgement; they are engraven on his heart,as the names of the children of Ifrael onAron’s breaft-plate, Exod. xxviii. 21. letthem be fo on thine. “ Pray for the peaceof Jmfalem, they lhall profper that lovethee,” Pfal. exxii. 6.* -'iFINIS.—!-•*-++-?•++++•*—Falkirk., T. Jikniten Printer'.