YELLOW DWaRF,THREE WISHES.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.>; yim.ua a > /[Hgl F a raHTSTORYOPPRINCE LUPINANDTHE WHITE CAT.—*»eelot®e««—A certain king had three sons, all hand¬some, brave, and fine young gentlemen;but being suspicious that they had formed adesign to deprive him of his crown, hethought of a method to divert them fromtheir intended purpose. Having called themone day into his closet, he spoke to them asfollows :—ii My sons, I am now come to agreat age, and cannot apply myself to publicaffairs with so much care as formerly; there¬fore I intend to resign my crown to one ofyou: but, as it is but right to require someproof of your abilities, in order to determinewhich is the most worthy of so valuable apresent, I propose and promise, that he whoshall bring me the most beautiful little dogshall immediately take possession of mvthrone.”The three princes readily agreed to tliproposal, each concluding himself mo;likely to succeed in fulfilling this extraordir;ary request. After taking leavm of the kiiijthey set out, with orders to return that datwelvemonth with dogs. Each took a diiferent road, without any attendants; bnwe shall leave the two eldest at present, amconfine our story to the youngest.This accomplished prince, as he was mordesirous to show his duty to his father thajto become a king, was more fortunate in hiundertaking than either of the others. Onnight, having travelled till it was very lateand being overtaken by a storm in a largiforest, he discovered a light at a distanceand, pursuing his journey with all speed, hiarrived at a most stately castle, the gates owhich wen; of massy gold, and the walls ofine china, whereon were painted the histor¬ies of all the fairies that ever appeared orearth. At the door hung a chain of dia¬monds, with a deer’s foot at the end; orpulling which, the prince heard a bell of scjileasing a sound, that he concluded it to bemade of gold or silver. Immediately thedoor opened, and twelve hands, each holdinga flambeau, gently conducted him into a hallof motherof-pearl, and from thence througha vast variety of chambers, all richly cover¬ed with paintings and jewels. The beauty5i* of these ornaments was greatly heightenedI by a number of lights, that hung from theceiling in glass sconces of exquisite work¬manship.After having passed through sixty apart-j ments, a fine easy chair moved towards himof its own accord; the fire lighted itself, andI the hands pulled off his clothes, which hadbeen drenched in the storm, and dressed himI in others so extraordinarily fine and rich,I that it dazzled his sight to behold himself.{ While the prince was in the utmost aston-:i ishment at this uncommon adventure, he saw| a multitude of cats enter the room, and seat| themselves on the bench. One held a| music-book, and some played on instruments,f while others beat time. In the midst of| this concert, a small figure came forward inf| a mourning veil, led by two cats in blacku cloaks,, and followed by a long train of cats,I some with rats, and others with mice, intheir mouths. The young prince was so sur¬prised, that he had not power to move; whenthe little figure, lifting up its veil, discoveredthe prettiest white cat that ever was seen.“ Prince,” said she, “be not afraid, butgive me your company with cheerfulness.It shall be the ambition of me and all mymewing attendants to give you pleasure.”On a signal given, supper was broughtin; but the prince at first declined eating,et ill the White Cat, guessing the reason, assured him that there were no rats nor in ledin any thing that was set before him. Atfifthe prince was admiring this beautiful cathe observed a small picture hanging upon iher foot. He asked her to show it him;and how great was his surprise to see acharming young man very much resembling i,himself! yet, observing the White Cat tosigh, he was afraid at that time to satisfyhis curiosity concerning it, and so endeav¬oured to divert her by entertaining conver¬sation, in which he found her to be extremelysensible, and acquainted with every thingthat passed in the world. He slept everynight in an apartment hung with tapestrymade of the wings of butterflies, on a bedof the most delicious flowers, and every daywas spent in the most delightful amusementIn this manner almost a year slipped awayinsensibly; and the prince entirely forgotbis native home and the little dog he was tocarry to his father. But the White Catknew when he was to return ; and one day,as they were walking together in a grovenear the palace, 44 Do you remember, prince,”said she, 44 the promise you made yourfather? Your brothers have already pro¬cured some curious little dogs, and there re¬main but three days for you to find onemore beautiful, or lose a kingdom.” These_ 7y or s awoke the prince from his di'eam ofpleasure. u Alas !” cried he, u what haveI been doing-? My honour is lost for ever.”—“Do not afflict yourself,” said the WhiteSCat; “ I will find a horse that will carry{'on home in less than twelve hours. Andis for the little dog, take this acorn, in whichSthere is one : put it to your ear, and you[will hear it hark.” The prince did so, and,[transported with pleasure, thanked her athousand times. Bidding her farewell, heimounted the wooden horse, and arrived at!his father’s palace just as his brothers enter¬ed the courtyard. He ran to embrace them,and all three went together to the king.—SThe two eldest presented their dogs, wmichwere so equally beautiful, that it was impos¬sible to know in whose favour to determine.I But the youngest soon put an end to thedebate; for, pulling the acorn out of hispocket and opening it, they saw a little doglying on cotton, so small that it might gothrough a ring; it was of a mixtur ofcolours, and its ears reached the groundThe king was convinced that nothing couldbe met with so beautiful; but, being unwil¬ling yet to part with his crown, he told I ischildren, that he must make a further trialof their love and diligence before he perform¬ed his promise: they must take another8year to find out a web of cloth fine enougto go through the eye of a small needle.This request, though unjust, they thouglit best to comply with: and our printmounted his wooden horse, and returned witspeed to his White Cat, on which alone hdepended for assistance. He found her laion a quilt of white satin. As soon as shsaw him, she expressed the utmost joywhile the prince caressed her in the mostender manner, and told her the succes:of his journey. The White Cat redoublecher efforts to render the prince more happy,if possible, than he had been before. Hewished for nothing but the hands whichbrought it to him ; and the second year rolledaway so fast, that the prince would againhave forgot his orders, had not the WhiteCat reminded him thereof: u But make3'ourself perfectly easy concerning the web,”said she, u for I have one wonderfully fine.Take this walnut; be sure to crack it inyour father’s presence, and you'will find in itsuch a web as 3 011 want.”The prince thanked her in the mostgrateful manner; and was presently carriedby the wooden horse to his father's palace,where his brothers had got betore him.They pulled out their webs, which were ex¬ceeding fine, and would go through the eyeof a large needle, but could not be made to9passthrough the eye of a small one. Theking was going to avail himself of thispretext, when the youngest prince unex¬pectedly entered, and produced a walnut,which he cracked. Finding only a kernelof wax, the king and all present ridiculedhim for thinking to find a web of cloth in anut. However, he broke the kernel, andsaw in it a corn of wheat, and in that agrain of millet-seed: he then opened themillet-seed, and, to the utter astonishmentand confusion of all the beholders, drew outa web of cloth four hundred yards long.The needle was brought, and the web wasput through the eye of it five or six timeswith the greatest ease.The king fetched a deep sigh, and turn¬ing towards his sons, u My children,” saidhe, u I am still desirous of putting you toa new trial: go for another year; and hethat brings me the most beautiful damsel,shall marry her and be crowned king; andI swear most solemnly, that I will requireno other proof of your filial affection anddiscretion.” Our sweet prince heard thistyrannic command without a murmur; and,remounting his courser, flew to his dearWhite Cat; which, knowing the momentof his return, was prepared to receive him inthe golden gallery. u Prince,” said she,the king I find, has refused you the crown;10however, I hope you will take care to deserveit, and I will provide you with a beautifuldamsel who will g-ain the prize.”The prince grew more and more fond ofher; and in her abode enjoyed every mag-nificent entertainment that fancy couldinvent.—When this last year was near ex¬pired, the White Cat thus addressed him.u If you are sensible of the favours I haveconferred upon you, now is the time to makeme amends. Do not hesitate, but cut offmy head and tail, and throw them into thefire.” Tears started from the prince’s eyesat this request, and he was going severaltimes to refuse; but the White Cat insistedupon it so earnestly, that at last, with atrembling hand, he chopped off her headand tail, and threw them accordingto orderinto the fire. In an instant the body of theWhite Cat was changed into the most beau¬tiful lad}' that ever was seen, and imme¬diately a great number of gentlemen andladies, holding their cats’ skins over theirshoulders, came and fell prostrate at her feet,crying, u Long live our gracious queen !How great is our joy to see her once morein her natural shape!” The prince wrasglad beyond description to behold so charm¬ing a creature, but could not help express¬ing an earnest desire to know the cause ofthis surprising transformation. u Restrain11| your curiosity,” says the lovely queen,u till we arive at your father’s court, whereI am now ready to accompany you, andwhere I will relate my unheard-of mis-1 fortunes. Come, see, the carriage waits.’So saying, she gave her hand to the prince,, who led her into a chariot, the inside of which; was fine velvet, set with brilliants, the out¬side gold ; and the horses’ harness was madeof emeralds.Away they flew, and were presently atthe gates of the king’s palace, where thetwo eldest princes were already arrived withtheir two princesses, in fine calashes of blue,embossed with gold. The courtiers crowdedto present these three illustrious couples to| the king. The two eldest princes with theirI ladies advanced first, and were received verygraciously by the monarch, who declaredtfiey hod brought him two such beauties,taat he knew not to which he should givetlie preference; but the moment the young¬est approached with his queen, both full ofgrace and dignity, the king cried out inecstacy, u This is the incomparable beauty,whose worth and excellence claims and de¬serves my crown !”—u I came not to robvou of your crown,” answered the discreetqueen; “ 1 was born heiress to six kingdoms.Give me leave to present one of them to you,and one to each of your sons; for which IISask no other return than this amiable princein marriage.”The king and all the court were struckwith joy at this declaration; and the nup¬tials were celebrated the same day with greatmagnificence. Never were a pair morehappy; and the young prince, to the lastmoment of his life, blessed the accident thatled him to the abode of the sweet WhiteCat.13THE YELLOW DWARF.—-=»ee!0!ee<=-There was once a queen, who, though shehad horn many children, had but one daugh¬ter left alive, of whoiq she was fond to anexcess, humouring and indulging her in allher ways and wishes. This princess wasexceedingly beautiful, so that she was calledAll-Fair, and had twenty kings courtingher at one time. Her mother, being advan¬ced in years, would fain have had her mar¬ried and settled before she died, but noentreaties could prevail; whereupon she de¬termined to go to the Desert Fairy to askadvice concerning her stuborn daughter.Now, this fairy being guarded by twofierce lions, the queen made a cake of millet,sugarcandy, and crocodiles’ eggs, in orderto appease their fury and pass by them; andhaving thus provided herself, she set out.After traveling some time, she found her¬self weary, and, lying down under a tree,fell asleep. When she awoke, she heard thelions which guarded the fairy roaring, uponwhich, looking for her cake, cho found itwas gone. This threw her into the utmostagony, not knowing how to save herself14from being devoured by them; when,hearing somebody cry, “ Hem ! hem !”she lifted up her eyes, and beheld a littleyellow man on a tree, half a yard high,picking and eating oranges.“ Ah ! queen,” said the yellow Dwarf,(for so he was called on account of hiscomplexion, and the orange-tree he livedin) “ how will you escape the lions ?There is but one way: I know whatbusiness brought you here! promise meyour daughter in marriage, and I will saveyou,” The queen thought she could notbut look upon so frightful a figure withhorror, yet was forced to consent ; whereupon she instantly found herself in herown palace, and all that had passed seemedonly as a dream ; nevertheless, she was sothroughly persuaded of the realty of it,that she became melancholy.Theyoung princess being unable to learnthe cause of her dejection, resolved to goand inquire of the Desert Fairy; and, ac¬cordingly, having prepared a cake for thelions, she also set off for her abode. Ithappened that All-Fair took exactly thesamerout hermother had done before her;and coming to the fatal tree, which wasloaded with oranges, she had a mind to picksome ! therefore, setting down her basketwherein she carried the cake,she plentifully15indulged herself. The lions now began toroar, when All-Fair, looking for her cake,was thrown into the utmost trouble on find¬ing it gone. As she was lamenting herdeploralde situation, the Yellow Dwarf pre¬sented himself to her with these words :—u Lovely princess, dry up your tears, andhear what I am going to say: You neednot proceed to the Desert Fairy to know thereason of your mother’s indisposition, she isungenerous enough to repent of havingpromised you, her adorable daughter, to mein marriage.”—u How !” interrupted theprincess; “my mother promised me to you\n marriage! you! such a fright as you!”—“ Nay, none of your scoffs,” returned theYellow Dwarf, “ I wish you not to stir upmy anger : if you will promise to marry me,I will be the tenderest and most loving hus¬band in the world—if not, save yourselifrom the lions if you can.” In short, theprincess was forced to give her word thatshe would have him, but with such agonyof mind, that she tell into a swoom; andwhen she recovered, she found herself inher own bed, finely adorned with ribbons,and a ring of a single red hair so fastenedround her finger that it could not be got off.This adventure had the same efiect uponAll-Fair as the former had upon her mother.She grew melancholy, which was remarkedand wondered at by the whole court. Theitbest way to divert her, they thought, wouldLhe to urge her to marry; which the prin-|cess, who was now become less obstinate on |that point than formerly, consented to; and, |thinking that such a pigmy as the Yellow hDwarf would not dare to contend with so tgallent a person as the King of the Golden rMines, she fixed upon this king for her ihusband, who wSs exceedingly rich and Ipowerful, and loved her to distraction. Themost superb preparations were made forthe nuptials, and the happy day was fixed;when, as they were proceeding to the cere¬mony, they saw moving towards them abox, wherfion sat an old woman remarkablefor her ugliness.—a Hold queen and prin¬cess,” cried she, knitting her brows, “ re¬member the promises you both made to myfriend the Yellow Dwarf. I am the DesertFairy, and if All-Fair does not marry him,I swear by my coif, I will burn my crutch.”The queen and princess were struck motion¬less by this unexpected greeting of theFairy; but the Prince of the Golden Mineswas exceedingly wroth; and, holding hissword to her throat, “ Fly wretch !” saidhe, or thy malice shall cost thee thy life.”No sooner had he uttered these words, thanthe top of the box flying off’, out came theYellow Dwarf, mounted upon a large17Spanish cat, who placing himself betweenHie king and the fairy, uttered these words:—(i Rash youth, thy rage should be levelledat me, not at the Desert Fairy; I am thyrival, and claim her by promise, and a singleJiair round her finger.”This so enraged the king, that he criedout, contemptible creature! wert thou worthyof notice, I would sacrifice thee for thy pre¬sumption.” Whereupon the Yellow Dwarfclapping spurs to his cat, and drawing alarge cutlass, defied the king to combat; andso they went into the court-yard. The sunthen immediately turned red as blood, andit became dark: thunder and lightningfollowed, by the flashes whereof were per¬ceived to giants vomiting fire on each sideof the Yellow Dwarf.The king behaved with such undauntedcourage as to give the Dwarf great per¬plexity ; but was dismayed, when he sawthe Desert Fairy, mounted on a wingedgriffin, with her head covered with snakes,strike the princess so heard with a lance,that she fell into the queen’s arms all overwith blood. He left the combat to go toher relief; hut the dwarf was to quick forhim, and, flying on his Spanish cat to thebalcony where she was, he took her fromher mother’s arms, leaned with her upon18the top of the palace, and immediately dis¬appeared.As the king-stood confused and astonishedat this strange adventure, he suddenly founda mist before his eyes, and himself lifted upin the air by some extraordinary power: tor.the Desert Fairy had fallen in love withhim. To secure him for herself, therefore,she carried him to a frightful cavern, hopinghe would there forget All-Fair, and triedmany artifices to complete her designs. Butfinding this scheme ineffectual, she resolvedto carry him to a place altogether as pleasantas the other was terrible; and accordinglyset him by herself in a chariot drawn byswans. In passing through the air, he hahthe unspeakable surprise to see his adoredprincess in a castle of polished steel, leaningher head on one hand, and wiping away thetears with the other. She happened to lookup, and had the mortification to see the kingsitting by the fairy , who then, by her art,made herself appear extremely beautiful.Had not the king been sensible of the fairy’spower, he would certainly then have tried tofree himself from her. At last they cameto a stately palace, fenced on one side bywalls of emeralds, and on the other by aboisterous sea.The king, by pretending to be in lovewith the fairy, obtained liberty to walk byrl9himself on the shore; and, as he was oneday invoking- the powers of the sea, he hearda voice, and presently after was surprisedwith the appearance of a Mermaid, which,coming up with a pleasant smile, spokethese words :—u O King of the Golden’ Mines, I well know all that has passed inregard to you and the fair princess. Don’t! suspect this to he a contrivance of the fairy’sto try you, for I am an inveterate enemy! both to her and the Yellow dwarf; therefore,if you will have confidence in me, I willlend you my assistance to procure the releasenot only of yourself, but of All-Fair also.”The overjoyed king promised to do whateverthe Mermaid bade him ; whereupon, settinghim upon her tail, they sailed away on a! rolling sea.When they had sailed some time, u Now,”said the Mermaid to the king, “we drewnear the place where your princess is keptby the Yellow Dwarf. You will have manyenemies to fight before you can come to her;take, therefore, this sword, with which youmay overcome every thing, provided younever let it go out of your hand.” Theking returned her all the thanks that themost grateful heart could suggest; and theMermaid landed and took leave of him,promising him farther assistance when ne-cessarv.t/20The king boldly advanced, and meeting [with two terrible sphinxes, laid them dead Iat his feet with his sword. Next he attack- ;ed six dragons that opposed him, and des-bpatched them also. Then he met with four |and twenty nymphs, with garlandsof flow- Sers, atsightofwhom hestopped, beingloath 1to destroy so much beauty ; when he heard )a voice say, “ Strike ! strike ! or you willlose your princess for ever !” upon which lihe threw himself in the midst of them, and hsoon dispersed them. He now came in nview of All-Fair, and, hastening to her,exclaimed, “ O my princess, behold your ifaithful lover!” But she, drawing back, .replied, “Faithful lover! Did I not see tyou passing through theairwithabeautifulnymph? Were you faithful then?” “Yes,”replied the king, “ I was. That was the ;detested Desert Fairy, who was carryingmetoa place where I must have languishedout all my days, had it not been for a kindMermaid, by whose assistance it is that Iam now come to release you.” So saying, ,he cast himself at her feet; but, catching 'hold of her gown, unfortunately let go themagic sword: which the Yellow Dwarf nosooner discovered, than, leaping from be¬hind ashrub where he had been concealed,he ran and seized it. By two cabalistcalwords he then conjured up two giants, who21laid the king in irons. u Now,” said thedwarf, “my rival’s fate is in my ownhands; however, if he will consent to mymarriage, he shall have his life and liberty.”u No,” said the king, “1 scorn thy favouron such terms;” which so provoked thedwarf, that he instantly stabbed him to theheart. The disconsolate princess, aggravatedto the last degree at such barbarity, thusvented her grief:—u Thou hideous creature,since entreaties could not avail thee, perhapsthou now relicst upon force; but thou shaltbe disappointed, and thy brutal soul shallknow perpetual mortification from the mo¬ment I tell the I die for thee love I have forthe King of the Golden Mines !” And sosaying, she sunk down upon his body, andexpired without a sigh.Thus ended the fate of these two faithfullovers, which the Mermaid very much re¬gretted ; but, all her power lying in thesword, she could only change them into twopalmtrees; which, preserving a constantmutual affection for each other, caress andunite their branches together.1'HE THREE WISHES.There was once a man, not very rich, whohad a very pretty woman to his wife. One >winter’s evening1, as they sat by the fire,they talked of the happiness of their neigh- •hours, who were richer than they. Said the |wife, “If it were in my power to have what II wish, I should soon be happier than all of tthem.” “ So should I too,” said the hus- -band; “I wish we had fairies now, and ithat one of them was kind enough to grant ime what I should ask.” At that instant 1they saw a very beautiful lady in their room, <who said to them, u I am a fairy; and Ipromise to grant to you the three first things iyou shall wish; but take care—after having ■;wished for three things, I will not grant one twish further.” The fairy disappeared; and 1the man and his wife were much perplexed.“ For my own part, said the wife, “ if it i;vere left to my choice I know very well 1what I should wish for: I do not wish yet,but I think nothing is so good as to be (handsome, rich, and to be of great quality.”But the husband answered, “ With all thesetilings one may be sick and fretful, and one fmay die young: it would be much Aviser to 'wish for health, cheerfulness, and long life.”“ But to what purpose is long life with po-23verty ?” says the wife : “it would only pro¬long your misery. In truth, the fairyshould have promised us a dozen of gifts,for there are at least a dozen things which Iwant.” “ That may be true,” said thehusband; “but let us take time; let usconsider till morning the three things whichare most necessary for us, and then wish.”“I’ll think all night,” said the wife;“meanwhile let us warm ourselves, for it isvery cold.” At the same time the wife tookthe tongs to mend the fire; and seeing therewere a great many coals thoroughly lighted,she said without thinking on it, “ Here’s anice fire; I wish we had a yard of blackpudding for our supper; we could dress iteasily.” She had hardly said these words,when down came tumbling through thechimney a yard of black pudding. “ Plagueon your greedy guts Avith your black pud¬ding!” said the husband : “here’s a finewish indeed! Now we have only tAvo left;for my part I am so vexed, that I Avish theblack pudding fast to the tip of your nose.”The man soon perceived he was sillier thanhis wife; for, at this second wish, up startsthe black pudding, and sticks so fast to thetip of the poor Avife’s nose, there Avas nomeans to take it of. “ Wretch that lam!”cried she; “you are a wicked man forAvishing the pudding last to my nose.” “ My24dear,’’answered the husband, u I vow I didnot think of it; but what shall we do? Iam about wishing for vast riches, and pro¬pose to make a golden case to hide the pud¬ding.” “ Not at all,” answrered the wife;“for 1 should kill myself, were I to livewith this pudding dangling at my nose : bepersuaded, we have still one wish to make;leave it to me, or I shall instantly throwmyself out of the window.” With this sheran and opened the window; but thehusband,who loved ids wife, called out, u Hold, mydear wife ! 1 give you leave to wish for whatyou will.” “Well,” said the wife, “mywish is that this pudding may drop oft.” Atthat instant the pudding dropped oft’; andthe wife, who did not want Avit, said to herhusband; “The fairy has imposed uponus; she Avas in the right; possibly we shouldhave been more unhappy Avith riches than Aveare at present. Believe me, friend, let usAvish tor nothing, and take things as it shallplease God to send them : in the mean time,let us sup upon our pudding, since that’s allthat remains to us of our Avishes.” Thehusband thought his Avife judged right;the}" supped merrily, and never gave them¬selves further trouble about the things Avhichthey had designed to Avish for.FINIS.