[No. C.KING JAMESAND THEEGYPTIAN ROBBERS,COURT CAVE OF FIFE.EDINBURGH ;PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.f *0? SCOTIAN I^^PlNBURQjA83MAI IWA'Axirr an*•r-.ttmmn WAiT'iYoa3 nr so: n Dirja^i a:J.'IKOdY.-ri .T, /M GaiI8I,I« W flJfA G3TOia9TS3JIT* :i’:i OXIAH HTIOHKING JAMESANDTHE EGYPTIAN ROBBERS,on THECOURT CAVE OF FIFE.few years before the pride of Scotland had been pros-ted by English bows and bills, on the disastrous day of)dden, the holding of Balmeny, in the county of Fife, wasAssessed by Walter Colville, then considerably advanced inirs. Walter Colville had acquired this small estate by theaal title to possession in the days in which he lived. When(mere stripling, he had followed the latest Earl of Douglas,hen the banner of the bloody heart floated defiance to theloyal Stuart. But the wavering conduct of Earl James lostin at Abercorn the bravest of his adherents, and Walterilville did not disdain to follow the example of the knightCadzow. He was rewarded with the hand of the heiressBalmeny, then a ward of Colville of East Wemyss. Thatiron could not, of course, hesitate to bestow her on one whoought the king’s command to that effect; and, in the briefSoing space of a summer day, Walter saw and loved theids which were to reward his loyal valour, and wooed andlidded the maiden by law appended to the enjoyment ofj em. The marriage proved fruitful, for six bold sons sprung> in rapid succession around his table, and one ‘ fair May’‘ing added at a considerable interval after, Walter felt, sor as his iron nature could feel, the pure and holy joys ofrental love, as his eye lighted on the stalwart frames and4 KING JAMES AND THE ROBBERS,glowing aspects of Ws boys, and on the mild blue ej’es andblooming features of the young Edith, who, like a fair pearl'set in a earcanet of jasper’s, received an added lusture fromher singleness. But, alas ! for the stability of human happi¬ness. The truth of the deep-seated belief, that the instru¬ment of our prosperity shall also be that of our decay, wasmournfully displayed in the house of Walter Colville. Bytire sword had he cut his way to the station and wealth henow enjoyed ; by the sword was his habitation rendered deso¬late, and his grey hairs whitened even before their time.On the field of Bannockburn—once the scene of a more glo¬rious combat—three of his sons paid with their dives for-their adherence to the royal cause. Two more perished withSir Andrew Wood, when Steven Bull was forced to strike tothe ‘ Floure and Yellow Carvell.’ The last, regardless of en-treaties and commands, followed the fortunes of the ‘ White jRose of York,’ when Perken Warheck, as history malignantly 1continues to style the last Plantagenet, carried his fair wife 1and luckless cause to Ireland ; and there young Colville foundan untimely fate and bloody grave near Dublin.Thus bereft of so many goodly objects of his secret pride,the heart of Walter Colville naturally sought to compensatethe losses which it had Sustained, in an increased exercise ofaffection towards his daughter. The beauties of infancy hadnow been succeeded by those of ripening maidenhood. Theexuberant laugh which had so often cheered his hours of careor toil, while she was yet a child, had given place to a smilestill more endearing to his time-stricken feelings ; face andform had been matured into their most captivating propor¬tions, and nothing remained of the blue-eyed, fair-haired,child, that had once clung round his knee, save the artless!openness of her disposition, and the unsullied purity of herheart. Yet, strange to tell, the very intensity of his affec¬tion was the source of bitter sorrow to her who was its objeetjjand his misdirected desire to secure her happiness threat¬ened to blench, with the paleness of secret sorrow, the cheekit was his dearest wish to deck with an everduring smile ofifhappiness.Edith Colville was but an infant when her three brothersfell at Sauchie, and had scarcely completed her eighteenthyear, when the death of her youngest brother made her atonce the object of her father’s undivided regard, and of pur¬suit to many who saw and were smitten with charms in theheiress of Balmeny, which had failed to attract their atten¬tion while her brother yet stood between the maiden andthat heritage. But the heart they now deemed worth theOK THE COURT CAVE OE FIFE. 5i wiimmg, was no longer hers to give. The death of her mother,I while she was yet a child, had left her her own mistress long;i before the period when maternal care is most essential; andEdith’s love was sought and won by one who had little but| youth and a warm heart to recommend him.Arthur Winton was the orphan son of a small proprietor[i in the neighbourhood, who, having been deprived of the bestI property by what he conceived the injustice of King James1 III., and the rapacity of his favourite Cochrane, was easilyi induced to join the insurgent nobles, who wrought the de-I struction of that monarch. He was, however, disappointedi in his expectations of personal reward, having fallen in thet conflict; and his son was too young to vindicate his claim ini an age so rude as that of which we write.Walter Colville, whose family had been so sadly thinnedh in the battle we have mentioned, though they had fought on8 the other side, naturally bore no good-will to the boy ; buthis younger son, who was nearly of the same age, viewed him, with different feelings. He was much about the house ofSBalmeny : and, to be brief, he won the affections of theyoung Edith long before she knew either their nature or theirvalue. Until the departure of young Walter Colville, Arthur’svisits were attributed by the old man to his friendship forhis son, but when Edith had unhappily become his heiress,ij he at once attributed them to their proper cause. A sternri prohibition of their repetition was the consequence, and theI lovers were henceforth reduced to hurried and sorrowful;jj meetings in secret.On the morning wherein we have chosen to begin the fol-;il lowing veritable narrative, the youthful pair had met unob-£ served, as they imagined, in a shady corner of Balmeny wood,and had begun, the one to lament, and the other to listen,when the sudden apparition of the angry father checked thepleasing current of their imaginings.He drew his sword as he approached, but the recollectionof his seventy years, and his now enfeebled arm crossing hismind, he replaced the useless weapon, and contented himselfwith demanding how the youth had dared thus clandestinelyto meet his daughter.Arthur attempted to allay his anger, and to plead his pas¬sion as he best could ; but the grim and angry frown that sati on Walter Colville’s brow, as he listened to him, soon shewedbow vainly he was speaking, and he ceased in confusion.‘ Have you finished, young master,’ said Walter, with asneer. ‘ Then listen—you are not the wooer I look for toEdith. I should prefer him something richer, something() KING JAMES AND THE ROMfiKS,■wiser, ami somctlijjig truer 'to the king, than any son of your.,father is likely ever to prove; so set your heart at rest on thatmatter. And you, giglot, sooth! to your rock and yourchisart. But stay; before you go, tell this gallant gay to. jprowl no longer about my dwelling. By St Bride, an’ he does, Ihe may chance to meet a fox’s fate.’‘i)eai- father,’ said the weeping girl, ‘upbraid us not.Never will I disobey you, never be his, without your ownconsent.’‘ Hold there,’ replied Walter, smiling grimly', ‘ I ask nomore.’ And he led away the maiden, who dared not so muchas steal a parting look.Arthur Winton bore this fiat of the old man, and the duti- Jjful acquiescence of his daughter, (though he doubtless thought flthe latter pushed to the very extreme of filial obedience,) if 1not with equanimity, at least with so much of it as enabled 1him to leave the presence of his mistress and her father with Isomething like composure. He wandered slowly to the beach, 1which lay at no great distance, as if he had hoped to inhale, iwith the cool breeze that floated from oft' the waters, someportion of the calmness in which they then lay bound, bismind occupied in turning over ill-assorted plans for the future,ever broken in upon by some intruding recollection of thepast. The place where he now walked was one well calcu¬lated, according to the creed of those who believe in the .power exercised over the mind by the face of external nature, ’to instil soothing tranquillizing feelings. It was a smoothgrassy lawn, forming the bottom of a gentle eminence, undu¬lating and stretching downwards to the pebbly beach, amongwhose round white stones the quiet waters of the Forth fellkissingly. The view was bounded to the north by the risingeminences wo have mentioned, and shut in on the west bythe woody promontary which is still crowned by Wemyss ■Castle. To the eastward, several rocky eminences stretch into 1 1the Forth, the more distant still increasing their seaward Imarch, until the bay is closed by the distant point of Kin- Icraig. Before him lay the silver Forth, and, half-veiled in the 1 Idistance, the green fields and hills of Lothian, terminated by Ithe picturesque Law of North Berwick, and the great Bass, Ifrowning like some vast leviathan awakening from his sleep. . IOne or two white-sailed barks lay motionless upon the water. IThe effect of the whole was so stilling and sedative, that Ar- Ithur, half forgetting his recent disappointment, stretched Ihimself upon the sward, and abandoned himself to contem- Iplation. While he lay thus chewing the cud of .sweet and : I'.Litter fancy, the sounds of distant song and merriment occa- ; r- ' o,OR THE COURT CXVE OF FIFE. _ 7siuually broke upon Ins ear. He atvfirst regarded them as’! the mere offspring of imagination, but at length the choral1 swell of a seemingly joyous ballad, followed by a hearty farI reverberated shout, convinced him that the merry-makingi(was real, and at no great distance. He started to his feet:iu some alarm, for his first impression was, that the Goodi Neighbours were holding their revels near him, and he welljknew the danger of being detected as a prying overlooker ofI their mystic merriment. A moment served to dissipate thisi: fear. The voices which he had listened to were too roughi and boisterous ever to be mistaken for the singing of thosei tiny minstrels, whose loudest notes never exceeded in soundi the trumpet of the bee. There was no fairy ring .round the; spot on which he had lain, nor was the hour either the ‘ eeof day,’ or that of midnight, at which, as is well known, theij elfin power was most formidable. After looking and listen-l ing for some time, he ascertained that the sounds proceededjfrom a cave which we have not yet mentioned, but which• forms a striking ornament to the beach, and an object of con-isiderable interest to the geologist, having been doubtlessI formed long before the Forth had found its present modestlimits. Being anxious to dispel the feelings that now prey¬ed on his peace, by a diversion of whatever kind, he walkedtowards the place. As he approached, the mirth was re¬newed with increased vehemence, and he perceived, at thewestern entrance of the cave, a female, from whose swarthyhue and singular habiliments he at once divined the natureof its present inmates. The woman, whose features were1 stern and somewhat repulsive, wore a long gown,of some coarsedark-coloured material, which fell almost to her feet, havingshort wide sleeves, which left the arms at perfect liberty, and,coming up to the neck, was there fastened with a golden brooch,Her head-dress consisted of a red and yellow coloured shawl,i twisted fantastically into a conical shape. Pendants of goldhung from her ears, and rings of the same metal, in many ofwhich were set rubies and other sparkling gems, garnishedher tawny fingers. Arthur at once recognised an Egyptianor gipsy in the dark-featured damsel who stood before him,and hesitated a moment whether he should pursue the deter-| mination of mixing with the revelers within, to which hist eager desire of escaping from his present unhappy feelingshad prompted him. The Egyptians were in those days of a■ much darker character than the remnants of their descendants,I which, in spiteof press-gangs and justice-warrants, still lingeramongst us. Murder among themselves was a thing of every¬day occurrence, and desperate robberies, committed upon the18KING JAMES AND THE ROBBERS,king’s lieges, by no means rare. The present gang, fromtheir vociferation, seemed in a state of excitement likely toremove any little restraints which the fear of the law’s ven¬geance might at another time have imposed on them ; and thefeatures of the woman, contrary to their custom, wore nolook of invitation, but rather seemed to deepen into a warn¬ing frown the nearer he approached the door at which shewas posted. On the other hand, the honour of the race, tosuch as trusted them, was proverbial. His curiosity to knowmore intimately the manners of a people so remarkable asthe Egyptians then were, and still are—perhaps a latent wishof being able to extract from their prophetic powers some fa¬vourable auspice to his almost expiring hopes—or that name¬less something which at times impels us to court the dangerwe at other times shun with care—all conspired to inducehim to enter the cave, and he accordingly attempted to do so.In this, however, he was opposed by the gipsy, who, steppingexactly in his way, waved her arm in a repelling attitude ;and, seeing him disinclined to obey this silent injunction, com¬ing still closer to him, whispered, ‘ Get you gone ; your lifewill be endangered if you enter here.’Before Arthur could reply to this injunction, she who gaveit was suddenly attacked by a man, who, issuing from the en¬trance, struck her a smart blow across the shoulders with astall' which he carried, and then, with a scowling look andangry accent, spoke a few words to her in a language whichArthur understood not. She muttered something in reply,and proceeded towards the beach. ‘ The woman is mad attimes, young sir,’ said the man, now addressing Arthur;‘ heed her not, I beseech you. We are only a few wanderingpuir folks, making merry; and if you wish to share our revelry,enter, and welcome. Some of our women may be able to readyour weird, should you so incline ; you have nothing to fear.’Arthur was by no means satisfied either that the womanwas mad, or that the man meant him fairly ; but, as he couldnot now retreat without betraying his fear to the dark search¬ing eye which the gipsy bent on him, and was besides con¬scious that he possessed a well-proved sword, and considerableskill and strength in the handling of it, he signified his wishto join the merry-making, and followed the gipsy into thecave.On entering, he found himself in the interior of a high-roofed cavern, of considerable extent, partly exposed to theseaward side by two arched openings between the lofty re¬cesses of rock which support the roof, that towards the east l|being the smaller and lower of the two, and the other §OR THE COURT (JAVE O!' FIFE. 9(rising in height nearly to the roof, affording a view of theforth, and admitting light to the place.!' The inhabitants of the cave had ranged themselves along'ijthe north and inner side. Nearest the western entrance,Hstretched on sacks, sheepskins, cloaks, and other nondescriptiirticles of clothing, sat, or rather lay, ten or twelve men, withhather more than double that number of women, all busily( engaged in drinking; farther oil', some ragged crones werei busily superintending the operation of a wood-fire on a sus¬pended pot; while, farther off still, a few barebacked asses,i and a plentiful variety of worse-clad children, were enjoying1 their common straw.1 Arthur was immediately introduced to the company of■ jearousers, some of whom received him with a shout of wel-ncome, but others, with evident dissatisfaction ; and he over-hheard, as he seated himself, what seemed an angry expostu-jiatfon and reply pass between his conductor and one of the[.[party. This individual, who was evidently the chief of the11gang, was an aged man, with a beard of silver-grey, which, asIre sat, descended to his lap, entirely covering his breast. His( head was quite bald, with the exception of a few hairs thatistill struggled for existence behind his ears, and this, addedto the snowy whiteness of his eye-brows, and the deep wrinklesin his brow and cheeks, would have conferred an air of re-:ivercnce on his countenance, had not the sinister expression[of his small and fiery-looking eyes destroyed the charm. On.each side of him sat a young girl, the prettiest of the com-ipany ; and the familiar manner in which they occasionallylolled on the old man’s bosom, and fondled with his neckand beard, shewed the intimate terms on which they livedwith him. The rest of the men were of various ages ; and,i! though all of them were marked with that mixed expressioni of daring recklessness and extreme cunning, which has long3 been ‘ the badge of all their tribe,’ they attracted (with onetj exception) little of Arthur’s attention. Of the women,the veryj young ones were extremely pretty, the middle-aged and oldones more than equally ugly. Young and old, pretty andill-favoured, all were alike deficient in that retiring modestyof expression, without which no face can be accounted trulylovely, and the want of which darkens into hideousness the! plainness of homely features. They joined freely in thei draughts which their male companions were making from tiui; horns, which, filled rlih wine and ale, circulated among th j' company, and laughed as loud and joked as boldly as the/did.Arthur seated himself in silence, and, something neglectful10KING JAMES AND THE ROBBEHS,of the kindness of the female who sat next him, occupiedhimself in surveying the motley group before him. His eyesoon rested on a man seated next the damsel who occupiedthe place immediately to the left of the chief, and the momenthe did so, he became anxious and interested. The individualwas a man of rather more than middle height, of a muscular,though by no means brawny frame. His countenance wasruddy, and of a pleasant mirthful expression ; his eyes werefull, of a dark hazel colour; his nose, though prominent,gracefully fonned ; and his mouth small and piquant. Hisbeard was of a dark auburn hue, and he wore moustachios ofthe same colour. He was dressed in a hodden-grey doubletand hose, which were fastened round his body by a strongleathern girdle, from which hung a broadsword of the two-edged shape. The manner of this individual was evidentlydifferent from those of his present companions, and that fromthe very pains which he took to assimilate it. There was alltheir mirth without their grossness, and his kind, affable de¬meanour to the female part of the company differed widelyfrom the blunt and sometimes brutal behaviour of his com¬rades. ,‘ Who is that on the left of the old man V whispered Ar¬thur to the man who had introduced him. ;‘ That—that’s his favourite dell,’ replied the man.£Nay, I mean not the woman—the man upon her left.’‘ Why, I know not—he's none of us—strayed in like youto share the revelry, I fancy—though, if he takes not thebetter care of his eyes and hands, an inch or two of cold ironwill pay his reckoning. I think he dallies too much withthe mort.’The cool even tone in which this annunciation of probablemurder was uttered, rendered the communication more start¬ling to Arthur than if it had been made with a vindictive ex¬clamation or suppressed groan ; and he looked anxiously andsteadily on the stranger, whose gallant bearing more andmore attracted him. The latter had observed him more thanonce bending his eyes on him, and was not apparently pleasedwith the strictness of his scrutiny. Twice, when their eyesmet, the stranger had checked a rising frown by emptying thehorn which he held in his hand ; the third time he set itdown untasted, and, fixing on Arthur a look of calm com- ■manding dignity, which seemed more native to him thanaught around, exclaimed, in a deep and powerful accent,‘ Friend, wherefore peer you so steadily this way ? If youhave aught to say, out with’t—if not, reserve your ogling for‘some of the fair eyes near you.’OR THE COURT CAVE OF FIFE. 11Arthur felt abashed beneath the rebuke, which his solici-I tude for this individual had exposed him to, and he couldi only mutter in reply something about the young damsel bc-i side him.‘ Ah ! ah !’ replied the stranger, resuming his good hu~mour, ‘ it is to her your looks were sent 1 Soul of Bruce !:! but she is well -worthy of your wonder. Never—and I havei seen many bright eyes—have I lighted on a pair so witching.’1 Then, turning to the object of these praises, he took hersi hand, and whispered in her ear something, which, though in-j audible to those present, was evidently of no unpleasing na-| ture, as her dimpling cheek unquestionably testified.The patriarch had viewed, for some time, with ill-dissembledSanger, the approaches of the stranger to the temporary sove¬reign of his afiections. But whether he thought them he¬ir coming too close, or was enraged at the placidity with which| they were received, his indignation now burst out, and, as isI usual in matters of violence, the weight of his vengeance fellI heaviest on the weakey individual. He smote the girl vio-Ilently on the cheek, and, addressing the stranger in a voicehoarse with passion, poured forth a torrent of words, whichwere to Arthur utterly unintelligible._ The stranger, who did not seem to understand the expres¬sions of this address, could not, however, mistake its mean¬ing. The language of passion is universal—and the flashingI eye, and shrivelled brow of the Egyptian chief ryere too un¬equivocal to be misunderstood. He remained silent hut amoment, and then, drawing from his bosom a purse, ap¬parently well filled, be took out a golden Jacobus, and prof¬fered it to the patriarch, as a peace •ottering to his awakenedanger. The fire of indignation fled from the old man’s eyesas they lighted on the gold, hut they were instantaneouslylighted up by a fiercer and more deadly meaning. Arthurcould observe significant looks circulating among the men,who also began to speak to one another in a jargon unintelli¬gible to him. He felt convinced that the purse which theincautious stranger had produced had determined them todestroy him ; and, prepossessed with this idea, he saw at oncethe necessity of the keenest observation, and of the dangerwhich attended his scrutiny being detected. Ho pretended1 to begin to feel the influence of the potations in which ho! had indulged, and apparently occupied himself in toying withI the willing dell who sat beside him. He now perceived one1 or two of the men rise, and proceed to the several openingsi of the cave, evidently to see that no one approached fromwithout, or perhaps to cut off retreat. He saw, too, that12KING JAMES AND THE ROBBERS,they plied the stranger and himself with wine and ale ; and,more convincing than all, he perceived on the darkeningbrow and gleaming eye of the hoary Egyptian, the awakeningexcitement of a murderous design. The stranger, in themean time, apparently unconscious of the peril he was in, be¬gan again to bandy kind words and looks with the favouriteof the chief. The old man looked grimly on, but did not nowseem to wish to interrupt the dalliance. Suddenly, he drewhis hand from his bosom. It was filled with a dagger, whichhe raised high, evidently with the intention of slaying theunguarded stranger, who was too much occupied with theeyes and hands of the beauty to perceive his villanous inten¬tion.Arthur, who at the moment was lifting to his mouth theponderous pewter stoup, or fiaggon, containing the ale onwhich the Egyptians were regaling, saw the wretch’s intent,and, in the impulse of the moment, flung the vessel at thelifted hand. His aim was fortunately true ; the villain’sarm fell powerless by his side, while the dagger flew to a con¬siderable distance. Arthur then rose, and, crying hastily tothe stranger to defend himself, drew his blade, and made to¬wards him.The stranger had perceived the intended blow, though, en¬tangled as he at the moment was, he would unquestionablyhave fallen a victim to it. lie now leaped hastily up, and,exclaiming loudly, ‘ Morte de mavie /’ ‘ Treason !’ drew outhis sword, and looked for the foe. Arthur now joined him,and, setting their backs to the rocky wall of the cave, theyprepared to defend themselves against the enraged gipsies,who, now shouting wildly, drew from under their cloaks long• sharp knives, which they brandished furiously in their faces.The stranger swept his sword around him in a manner thatproved him a practised master, and Arthur manfully second¬ing him, the Egyptians were kept completely at bay, for noneseemed daring enough to trust himself within the sweep ofthe stranger’s sword, or that of his new companion. But itwas only while they could keep their backs to the rocky wallthat they could hope to cope with their savage enemies, who,though they did not come near enough to stab, surroundedthem as nearly as they could, and yelled and shouted like somany disappointed fiends. There was apparently no meansof escape, though there might of resistance, as the momentthey quitted the wall their backs would have been exposed tothe daggers of the infuriated assassins. Arthur perceived,too, to his dismay, that sure means were taking to render theirh'.mrth of sword unavailing. Several women were clamberingOR THE COURT CAVE OF FIFE.13up the rock behind them, carrying large blankets and other: cloths, clearly for the purpose of throwing over their!i swords and themselves ; and thus yielding them up a fetteredi prey to the knives of these butchers. All hope of escape died[ in his bosom as he perceived the wa'« 'aid design, and he wasij about to rush on the savages, and at least sell his life dearly,i when he perceived the woman who carried the blankets pause,and look upwards. He too looked up, and saw, with a con¬sternation that for a moment unmanned him, an immensefragment of loose rock in the very act of being removed fromits immemorial resting-place, and precipitated on their heads.‘ Holy Virgin ! help us, or we are lost,’ exclaimed the youth;and the prayer had hardly left his lips ere the threatened en¬gine of their destruction was converted into the means of theirI immediate escape. The ponderous stone dropped so far di¬rectly on its fatal errand, that Arthur instinctively crouchedI beneath the apparently inevitable blow ; but, encountering aI few feet only above his head a projecting piece of rock, it re-:l| bounded from the side of the cave in a slanting direction, and,) falling clear of its intended victims, smote to the earth theI hoary head of the patriarch. He fell beneath the huge frag-iment, which hid from their sight the face and neck of theEgyptian ; but the convulsive writhings of the unhappy man,Ii which for a moment contorted his frame, only to leave it inutter stillness, told plainly that his long career had ceased,and that the man of blood had become the victim of his ownpitiless design.The Egyptians, panic-struck by this sudden death-blow,set up a loud and stunning wail, as they crowded round thebody of their chief ; but the stranger and Arthur stayed notto observe their farther demeanour ; and, taking advantage ofthe opening among their enemies, which was now affordedthem, sprang out of the cave, and ascended at the top of theirspeed to the brow of the eminence behind it.They continued their rapid walk for some time in silence,induced, no doubt, by the tumultuous nature of their feelings,and the violence of their present exertion. At length, havingentered a few yards into a wood, which then decorated theplace, though soon after to be converted into keel and tim¬bers for the ‘ Great Michael,’ the stranger halted, and, tak¬ing Arthur by the hand, said, breathlessly,‘ By Saint Andrew, young sir, you have done us this daygood service. I never thought to have been so indebted tca pint stoup, trow me.’‘ But what sorrow tempted you man,’ replied Arthur, rathercrossly, ‘ to play the fool with the old villain’s dearie in yon\14 KINO JAMES . AND THE ROBBERS,wild sort of fashion ; and, above all, what induced you toflourish your well-filled purse in the eyes of those who lovegold better than anything else, save blood V‘ Whim—chance—fate, I thought at one time. It is longsince cunning men have told me that I shall die for a woman,and, by the Bruce’s soul, I thought the hour had come. Asfor my Jacobuses, I rejoice I saved them from the filch¬ing crew, as they will serve for an earnest, a poor one to besure, of my thankfulness to my brave deliverer and, so say¬ing, he drew from his bosom the purse which had excitedthe fatal cupidity of the Egyptians, and gracefully profleredit to the youth.Arthur had all along suspected, nay felt assured, that hiscompanion was of a rank superior to his appearance ; and,had it not been so, his present conduct would have convinced 'him.‘ Whoever you are, sir,’ said he, ‘ that in this lowly disguisespeak the language and sentiments of a noble- born, your owjiheart will, I know, convince you that I dare not accept yourgold. The service I rendered you I would have rendered to thepoorest carle in Fife, but were it ten times greater than itwas, it must not be repaid with coin,’‘ All are not carles who wear hodden-grey and blue bonnetswith you, I find,’ replied the stranger, smiling approvingly.‘ But come, if gold cannot repay the service you have doneme, tell me what can.’‘ Nothing in your power to perform,’ replied Arthur,calmly.‘Try,’ continued the stranger ; ‘ I bear with me a talis¬man which can command all objects which men in generaldesire—Choose then—wealth, worship, or a fair wife.’There was something so frank, open, yet condescending inthe tone and appearance of this extraordinary stranger, thatArthur could not resist their fascinating influence; and, al¬though he could not imagine that any interference on thepart of his new friend would produce the slightest change inthe unalterable sentence of Walter Colville, he communicatedto him a general outline of his present situation.The stranger listened attentively to the detail—then de¬manded how far distant the dwelling of Colville was; and,on being informed of its near vicinity to the spot on whichthey then stood, declared his intention of immediately pro¬ceeding thither, and using his influence on Arthur’s behalf.The latter opposed this resolution but faintly ; for, thoughhe was, as we have said, utterly at a loss to conceive how his'"Sa to be benefited by the proffered kindness of theOR THE COURT CAVE OF FIFE.15stranger, yet a vague and almost latent hope of still obtainingEdith never entirely forsook him.He conducted the stranger through the wood, therefore,by the path which led most directly to the house of Balmeny.On reaching the skirt of the forest, it was agreed that theformer should proceed alone to the dwelling of Colville, andthat Arthur should remain where he was, and await theresult.The stranger set out on his voluntary mission at a rapidpace, and soon arrived at the house. The door stood open,and he entered with the careless sauntering air of one entirelyindifierent as to the welcome he might be greeted with. Hefound Walter seated apparently in no very pleasant humour,and his daughter bustling about among the serving-maidens,wearing on her flushed cheek and suffused eye undoubtedsymptoms of the sorrow with which the morning’s adventurehad afflicted her.‘ Give you good-e’en, gudeman of Balmeny,’ said the stran¬ger, seating himself, without waiting an invitation, on thebench opposite Walter.‘ The same to you, neebour,’ said the landlord, in a tonethat had little of welcome in it.A few moments’ silence now ensued—Walter evidentlywaiting with some impatience for the tidings which the otherseemed in no haste to communicate to him. But this couldnot last.‘ Have you anything to tell, ask, or deliver, friend,’ at lastsaid Walter.‘ This bright-e'ed maiden is the bonny lass of Balmeny, I’mthinking,’ was the unreplying answer.‘ That is my daughter, truly,’ said Walter, becoming moreand more impatient. ‘ Does your coming concern her V‘ That it does,’ replied the stranger. 1 There’s an auld by¬word, that foul fish and fair daughters are nae keeping ware.This fair May is the object of my visit; in short, gudeman,I come a-wooing.’At the sound of this magnetic word, an universal commo¬tion arose in the dwelling of Colville. The maiden, who wasits object, surveyed the stranger with indignation and sur¬prise ; the servants whispered and tittered amongst eachother ; and Walter seemed for a moment about to give ventto the feelings of his anger, when the current of his feelingssuddenly changed, and, directing a look of malicious joy tohis daughter, he addressed the stranger—-‘ Welcome, wooer—welcome. Come, lasses, set meat anddrink before this gentle here ; as the auld Earl of Douglassaid,—It’s 01 arguing between a fu’ man and a fasting.’16 KING JAMES AND THE ROBBERS,This order was obeyed with great readiness by the serving-maidens, who set before the stranger the household breadand cheese, and a bicker of no scanty dimensions, containingthe reaming ale, for which Scotland has been so long famous.There was a malicious merriment twinkling from every eyeas the scene went on ; for all knew well that the overstrainedkindness of the host was soon to be converted into outrageousand overwhelming abuse of the guest. The stranger, how¬ever, seemed either not to notice or to slight these indica¬tions. He partook heartily of the good cheer set before him,and amused himself byreturning with good-humoured smilesthe stolen looks of the simpering maidens. He looked invain, however, for Edith, who had retired from the place.‘ And now,’ said Walter, who began to think the strangersomewhat more at ease than he could have wished, ‘ Yourname, wooer ?’‘ My name !’ said the stranger, somewhat embarrassed.‘ Ay, your name—all men have a name. Knaves, (lad ingan emphasis on the word,) many.’‘ True, gudeman, true. My name, then, is Stuart—JamesStuart. 1 hope it pleases you V1 The name is the best in the land,’ said the old man,touching his bonnet. ‘ As to the wearer—hem !—a’ Stuartsare no sib to the king, ye ken. What countryman are you V‘ I was born at Stirling,’ said the stranger.‘ Aye, aye, it may be, it may be,’ replied Walter,—' but,to bring the matter to a point, what lands and living hueye, friend V‘ Sometimes less, sometimes more,’ replied the stranger,‘ as I happen to be in the giving or the taking humour. Atthe lowest ebb, however, I think they are at least worth allthat ever called a Colville master.’‘ Faith, and that’s a bauld word, neebour,’ cried Walter,bitterly—‘ and one that I’m jalousiug you’ll find it difficultto make gude.’‘ At your own time it shall be proved, gudeman ; but it isnot for myself I come to woo the bonny lass of Balmeny. Iam, thanks to a wise old man who sits in Windsor, wivedalready.’‘ And who, in Beelzebub’s name, may you be blackfit for Vsaid Walter, rising in wrath.‘ Give your daughter to the youth I shall name, and I will,on her wedding-day, fill you up one lippie with the red gold,and five running o’er with silver.’‘ Give her ! To whom?’‘ To one who loves her dearly ; and, what is more, is dearlyloved in return, old man.’OR THE COURT CAVE OF FIFE.17‘ Who is lie V reiterated Walter ?‘ One who is worthy already the hand of the best ae daugh¬ter of any laird in Fife ; and who, ere to-morrow’s sun sets,will be wealthier than yourself.’‘ Who—who—who is he V cried the old man, stamping ina paroxysm of rage.‘ Arthur Winton !’ said the stranger.The anger of Walter, when this unpleasing name was ut¬tered, almost overwhelmed him.‘ Out of my doors, you rascally imposter,’ at length he wasable to exclaim ; ‘ out of my doors. Swith away to theminion who sent you here, an’ you wish not to taste the dis¬cipline of the whip, or to escape being worried, by the tykes.’To the stranger the anger of the old man, instead of fear,seemed only to occasion merriment. He laughed so heartilyat the violences into which the rage of his host seduced him,that the tears actually stood in his eyes—conduct that natu¬rally increased the passion which it fed on. The servantsstood looking on in silent wonder ; and Edith, startled by thenoise of the discordant sounds, returned to the place in won¬der and alarm.An unexpected termination was suddenly put to the sceneby the entrance of Winton. His cheek was flushed withhaste; and he was so breathless that he could hardly ex¬claim—' Save yourself, sir stranger, by instant flight; thoEgyptians have tracked our path hither, and are pursuing ushere with numbers ten times exceeding those we encounteredin the cave.’‘ Let them come,’ said the stranger, with a smile. ' Egyp¬tians though they be, they cannot eat through stone walls oroaken doors. We will carouse within while tlrey howl with¬out, and drink the diriyc of their chief.’Arthur said nothing, but looked doubtingly at Walter.‘ And do you really imagine, worthy youth, and no lessworthy blacktit, that 1 am to have my house sieged, my cattlestolen, and my corn carried off, to shield you from the conse¬quences of your drunken brawls ? Not I, by the cat of blessedBride. Out of my doors, you caitiffs—they can but slay you,and the whittle has crossed the craig of mony a better fellowthan any ot ye twasome is likely to prove. Begone, I say.’‘ Nay, my dear father,’ said Edith, imploringly, ‘.do notdrive them furth now ; the Egyptians are approaching thehouse—they cannot escape.’' And they shall not stay here,’ replied the old man, harsh¬ly, the tone of agony in which Edith’s intreaties were utteredrecalling all the bitterness of his feelings against Arthur.18 KING JAMES AND THE ROBBERS,‘ At least, Walter Colville,’ said Arthur, ‘save this stran¬ger. lie cannot have offended you. It was on my errandhe came hither. I will go forth alone. Perhaps one victimmay suffice.’‘ Nay, brave youth,’ said the stranger, ‘ we go together.Farewell, old man. You are a Scot, and yet have betrayedyour guest. You are a Colville, and the first of the line thatever turned his back upon a Stuart at his utmost need.’The tone and sentiment of these words had a powerfuleffect on Walter Colville. A momentary confusion rested onhis countenance, and then, with a smile ill put on, he said,‘ Come, come, sirs ; I but joked wi’ ye. Did you really thinkthat Walter Colville would abandon to his enemy any whohave bitten his bannock, and kissed his cup as you have done]Na, na ; here you are safe while the auld wa’s stand. Sitdown. I’ll go above and look out for the land-loupers.’The old man left the place accordingly; and Arthur, seizingthe opportunity, retired to one corner with Edith, where thenature of their conversation could be only guessed from theanimated looks and gestures of J:he affectionate pair.The stranger in the mean time strode up and down theplace, regardless of the,affrighted servants, singing to him¬self,‘ O whar will T get a bonny boy,That will win hose and shoon ;That will run to Lord Barnard’s }refct,And bid his ladye come ?’‘ What say you, my little man,’ he continued, addressing ahoy of twelve or thirteen years, who sat before the fire, shar¬ing, with a shaggy colley, the contents of an ample cog, alto¬gether unheeding the agitation which reigned around him ;‘ will you run to Wemyss Castle with a message to SirDavid ?’‘ I’ the noo !’ said the boy, looking up with an air expres¬sive of his sense of the unparalleled oppression proposed ininterrupting him during the sacred ceremony of supper.The stranger laughed, and drawing from his bosom thepurse we have so often spoke of, he displayed another Jaco¬bus, and offered it to the hoy. ‘ Na, 1 ’ll no gang for the yellowhaw bee,’ said the urchin ; ‘ but if ye’ll gie me the braw whittleI’ll rin.’ The stranger immediately put into his hand thedagger he had coveted, and, drawing him aside, conveyed tohim in whispers the message he was to deliver.Walter now re-entered, and informed them that he hailreconnoitred the Egyptians, who, including women and chil¬dren, seemed to amount to above a hundred.OK TH8 COUKi’ CAVE OI FIFE. ' 1 i)I ‘ Coitld 1 but get this yottnker brfyond their clutches,’saidthiv stranger, ‘ a short half hour would disperse them like theM leaves of autumn.’Walter stared at this avowal, hut was silent. The convic-| tion of Arthur that the speaker was not what beseemed, nowI seized on his mind also, but it appeared to inspire him withI) no pleasant feeling ; on the contrary, anxiety deepened onI his countenance the more and more he gazed on the hand-:■ some features of his guest, and the wild shouts of the Egyp-i! tians, which he had previously heard with comparative in-I. difference, now evidently inspired him with the deepest terror.It was agreed at length that the boy should make the at-! tempt. To get him out of the house without endangering its1 inmates was comparatively easy, as the Egyptians as yet stood| at some distance from the door. Once out, they had onlyhis own ready wit and speed of foot to trust to. While| Walter and Arthur therefore undid, with due caution, the:t massy bars and bolts which protected the oaken door, the[stranger, anxious to witness the success of his messenger, as¬cended to the upper story, and stood at the open casement.He was immediately observed by the Egyptians, who set upa yell of savage impatience at the sight, the men brandishingtheir weapons, and the women waving their arms, as ifthreatening vengeance against him.Their attention was now, however, directed from him tothe youthful messenger, who approached towards them un¬dauntedly. They went forward to meet him.' ‘ The maister sent’s to see what ye’re a’ here for,’ said theboy.‘ Tell him,’ said one of the Egyptians, harshly, ‘ we arecome to demand the two strangers who have just entered hisdwelling. Let him give them to our vengeance, and we willdepart peaceably—not a feather or a rag of his shall bescathed by ns.’‘ And what if he should na just agree to this,’ said theboy, edging toward the west, covering the manoeuvre, as ifretiring toward the house.‘ If he refuse us, woe unto him. Wo will leave him nei¬ther com nor cattle, kith nor kin ; burn ins house with fire,and Ins own, rod blood shall lapper on his cold heutth-stone.’‘ Haith, carle, you matin tell him that yoursei,’ said thei hoy, as with one wild bound he sprung from the group, and,with the speed of a greyhound, made for the wood. Therewas a cry df disappointment burst forth from the Egyptiansas they perceived his intetotion, and many set out in pursuit.The chase was viewed with deep interest by the inmates ofthe house - (for Walter, Edith, and Arthur had now joined20 KING JAMES AND THE ROBBERS,the stranger.) The wood was not far distant, the boy wasfamous for his swiftness of foot, and they could see that hispursuers were falling fast behind. To their dismay, however,they perceived, at length, that there was a powerful dogamong the number, who continued the chase after all his hu¬man competitors had abandoned it in despair. He gainedfast upon the boy. ‘ He is lost,’ said Edith, piteously ; ‘ thatvillanous dog will tear him to pieces.’ But the event beliedthe maiden’s fear. Just as the ferocious animal seemedabout to seize him, the boy was seen to turn upon his pur¬suer, the dog gave a loud howl, and fell to the ground, andthe stranger could perceive his own dagger gleaming in thestripling’s hand, as he waved it in triumph over his head erehe disappeared among the trees.‘ I could stake an earldom,’ said the stranger exultingly,‘ on that boy’s proving a noble soldier. By the soul of Bruce,he can both fight and flee.’Walter’s terror, as he listened to these words, fairly master¬ed the assumed composure which he had hitherto aftected.He took off his bonnet, and, bending lowly to the stranger,said, in a voice tremulous with fear,‘ In God’s name, say, oh ! say, sir, are you not the king !’‘ Even so, good Walter, James of Scotland stands beforeyou. Are you sorry to see me ? By Saint Andrew, I hadhoped I should be welcome to every honest house, aye, andevery honest heart in my dominions.’Walter had dropped on his knee as the truth, which hehad for some time suspected, was confirmed to him; and, look¬ing up to his royal guest, while tears stood in his eyes,‘ Welcome, my noble prince ; what is it of Walter Colville’s,from the bodle in his purse to the last drop of his heart’sblood, that the king is not welcome to ? I and mine, my liege,have fought, and bled, and died for the royal house. But tosee your grace here in peril, surrounded by so many villains,and this old arm alone left to assist you. Oh ! for the sixbraw fellows that I have seen prancing on yonder lea ; theywould have cleared a way for your highness through them all.’‘ Never fear for me, Walter Colville ; I am not doomed tofall by a brawl of this kind, or in mine own land. So runstlie rede.’The king now turned round, and perceived Arthur andEdith, who had retired to a little distance. When they sawthey were observed, they advanced, and would have kneeled ;but the prince prevented this; he took them both by thehand, and imprinted on the lips of Edith a kiss, savouring asmuch of warm affection as of kingly courtesy.Their attention was now directed to the operations of theOR THE COURT CAVE OF FIFE.21Egyptians. They perceived, with some surprise, that a con¬siderable number of them left the rest, and made for thewood, and that those who remained, ceased the yelling mani-I testations of sorrow and revenge which had so aft'rightened!| Edith.‘ They are meditating a retreat, methinks,’ said the king.‘ I fear, my liege,’ said Walter, ‘ they are rather planningsome mode of successful assaultand the return of theEgyptians too soon verified the apprehension. They borewith them the trunk of a fallen tree, and the besieged at•once saw the use for which this powerful engine was in¬tended.‘ My door can never withstand the shock of a ram likethis,’ cried Walter; ‘they will force a passage and out,and, alas ! your highness will be murdered—murdered in thehouse of Balmeny.’James was proverbially brave, but it cannot be denied thathe looked a little grave as he perceived the ponderous engineborne along, which, in all probability, would, in a few minutes,lay open the passage to a band of miscreants thirsting for hisblood, and against whose rage the bravery of himself and hisj'j friends seemed a poor defence.‘ Let the worst come to the worst,’ said he at length ; ‘ wothree will make good this staircase for a stricken hour atleast; before that time, the rescue must arrive.’The King, Walter, and Arthur, now sought the floor be¬low—Edith, with the serving-maidens, being stationed above,to be, in case of the Egyptians forcing an entry, still withinthe defence of the stair.| The door was of massive oak, studded with iron nails, andsupported by three iron bolts of considerable thickness. Anadditional defence was now added in the shape of planksplaced diagonally under these bolts, and for a few momentsthe besieged imagined it might withstand the efforts of theassailants. But a few strokes of the tree soon shewed thefallacy of this hope. The door shook under the first blow,and, ere a score had been given, the yielding hinges shewedthat the Egyptians had well calculated the force of their in¬strument.‘ It must be cold steel that saves us after all,’ said theking, retreating to the staircase.‘ Oh, that I and all my kin were stark dead on this floor,and your highness safe on Falkland Green,’ said Walter,wringing his wrinkled hands, and following.They had scarcely gained their intended position at theupper landing of the staircase, when, yielding to a desperate<22 KING JAMES AND THE ftOBBEHS,stroke, the door hew open, and the infuriated Egyptians,shouting, made their way to the interior. Not finding those Ithey sought below, they next proceeded to ascend the stair. jThis, however, was an ascent fatal to all who attempted it. ICorpse after corpse fell backward among the enraged ruffiansunder the blows of the king and Arthur, until no one could fbe found daring enough to attempt the passage.‘ Let us smeik them in their hive,’ at length cried a hoarsevoice, ‘ and so let them either roast or come forth.’ A shout I;of approbation followed this advice ; and, while a chosen fewremained to guard the stair, the remainder roamed about the 8house, collecting together everything which could assist their [diabolical design.The king’s heart, and that of his brave companions, sunk las they heard this resistless plan of destruction proposed and flset about. It was for a moment only, however ; for sudden¬ly they heard the clear, sweet voice of Edith exclaiming, ‘ Weare saved, we are saved ; yonder comes the Lord of Wemyss fland his gallant followers;’ and immediately after the maidenherself appeared to reiterate the tidings.‘ Are you sure of what you say, Edith,’ asked the kingeagerly ; ‘ how do the horsemen ride V‘ As if their coursers were winged,’ replied Edith ; £ all ofthem, but one, who backs a grey steed of surpassing power, isfur before the rest, and ever and anon turns round, as if up-braidingly to his followers.’‘ My trusty David,’ cried the king with emotion, ‘ well wertthou worthy of the gallant grey ! ’There now arose a shout of a peculiar cry from among theEgyptians without, which was rightly interpreted as a signal 'of retreat, for it was immediately followed by the evacu¬ation of the house ; and so speedy and simultaneous wastheir flight, that the king could only perceive the latestof the tribe as they made for the wood, leaving to Wemyssand his companions a deserted field and an open entrance.‘ Thanks, David, for this timely rescue,’ said the king, asthe knight bended the knee before him. ‘ By my crown, thespurs were well bestowed on one who can so fairly use them.’James, followed by Sir David, Walter, Arthur, and therest, now led the way to the upper chamber, where the im¬moderate joy and hospitality of the old man displayed itselfin the most substantial form. When they had caroused forsome time, the king, turning to Walter, said,‘ Mine host, did 1 hear rightly when you said there wasnothing beneath this roof-tree to which I was not welcome 1’‘ Your highness heard rightly.’iiiiitID4|!Ilfr.«?■0OR THE COURT CAVE OF FIFE. 23‘ Give me, then, this fair maiden. We kings, you know,seldom choose the least valuable of our subjects’ chattels.’‘ Your grace may command me,’ said Walter, though some¬what hesitatingly, for he saw the turn which things weretaking, v‘ And you, too, sweet Edith V said the king, again salutingthe blushing girl; and then, without waiting for her answer,continued—‘ That you may all know, my lieges, that we ac¬cept your benevolences merely for your own benefits, I giveaway this treasure, tempting as it is, to one who has well de¬served the favour at our hand. Take her, Arthur, and con¬fess that I have found a way to repay the debt I owed you.lleceive his hand, fair maiden ; and if it will add anything toits value in your eyes, know that it has this day saved aking’s life.’The sentiments of Walter in regard to Arthur Winton hadbeen undergoing a change, imperceptible even to himself,from the moment he had perceived him the companion andprobable favourite of the king ; but the revolution was com¬pleted when he was made acquainted with the particulars ofhis interference in the royal behalf, a merit which would, inhis eyes, have outweighed a thousand faults in his intendedson-in-law.King James shortly left the house of Balmeny amid theblessings of its inmates ; and to close our somewhat tedioustale, we have only farther to acquaint our readers, that thegift of the monarch was shortly after confirmed at the altar,where Edith became the happy bride of Arthur Winton;and that the royal gratitude flowed freely on the wedded pair,as any who chooses to peruse the time-worn records of theGreat Seal may satisfy himself.is-THE END.James Brydone, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street, Edinburgh.■I.rri nojai'V v<AtiA o) > .U # ; ^ -... v. uoiihac! adti^li; ■' '...<m> Hit’!ifuttl i'.l ’