*n- sm. xnh ***■ ***1 ^ ^ £"*1 £**iW W w w W W W W W Vff • ^f> w W W wTHE HISTORYAtfcG DUNCAN CAMUBELL,OAND HISDOG, OSCAR.«.•DUNCAN AND HIS FRIENDGLASGOWSPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.DUNCAN CAMPBELL.DUNCAN CAMPBELL came from the High¬lands, when six years of age, to live with an oldmaiden aunt in Edinburgh, and attend the school.His mother was dead: hut his father had suppliedher place, hy marrying his house-keeper, Duncandid not trouble himself atrout these matters, nor in¬deed about any other matters, save a black foal ofhis father’s, and a large sagacious colley, namedQscar, which belonged to one of the shepherds.—There being no, other hoy, save Duncan, about theho use, Oscar and he were constant companions.—With his garter tied round Oscar’s neck, and a pieceof deal tied to his big bushy tail, Duncan wouldoften lead him about the green, pleased with theidea that he was conducting a horse and cart.Oscar submitted to all this with great cheerfulness,but whenever Duncan mounted to ride on him, hefound means instantly to unhorse him, either bygalloping or rolling himself on the green. WhenDuncan threatened him, ho looked submissive andlicked his face and hands; when he corrected himwith the whip, he cowered at his feet;—matterswere soon made up. Oscar would lodge nowhereduring the night, but at the door of the room wherehis young friend slept, and woe he to the man orwoman who ventured to enter in at. untimely hours.W hen Duncan left his native home, he thoughtnot of his father, nor any of the servants. He wasfond of the ride, and some supposed that he evenscarcely thought of the black foal; but when he sawOscar standing looking him ruefully in the face, thetears immediately blinded both his eyes. Hecaught him around the neck, hugged and kissed3him.—‘Good b’yo Oscar,’ said he blubbering;‘ Good b’ye, God bless you, my dear Oscar:'Duncan mounted before a servant, and rode away.Oscar still followed at a distance, until he reachedthe top of the hill—he then sat down and howled.Duncan cried till his little heart was like to burst.‘ What ails you ?’ said the servant’; ‘ I will never v,see my poor honest Oscar again,’ said Duncan, ‘an’ 'my heart canna bide it.’Duncan staid a year in Edinburgh, but he didnot make great progress in learning. He did notapprove highly of attending the school, and his auntwas too indulgent to «ompel his attendance. Shegrew extremely ill one day—the maids kept con¬stantly by her, and never regarded Duncan. Hewas an additional charge to them, and they neverloved him, but used him harshly. It was now withgreat difliculty that he could obtain either meat ordrink. In a few days after his aunt was taken illshe died. All was in confusion, and poor Duncanwas like to perish with hunger:—he could find noperson in the house; hut hearing a noise in hisaunt’s chamber, he went in, and beheld them dress¬ing the corpse of his kind relation: it was enough:Duncan was horrified beyond what mortal breastwas able to endure:—he hasted down the stair, andran along the High-Street and South-Bridge, asfast as his feet would carry him, crying incessantlyall the way. He would not have entered that houseagain if the world had been offered him as a reward.Some people stopped him in order to ask what wasthe matter hut lie could only answer them by ex¬claiming, ‘Oh, dear 1 Oh, dear!’ and stragglingbll lie got free, held on his course careless whitherbe went, provided be got far enough from the horrid4scene he had so lately witnessed. Some have sup¬posed, and I believe Duncan has been heard confess,that he then imagined he was running for the High¬lands, but mistook the direction. However thatvvas, he continued his course until he came to a placewhere two ways met, a little south of Grange Toll.Here he sat down, and his frenzied passion subsidedinto a soft melancholly ;—he cried no more, but sob¬bed excessively: fixed his eyes on the ground, andmade some strokes in the dust with his finger.A sight just then appeared, which somewhat cheer¬ed, or at least interested his heavy and forlorn heart—it was a large drove of Highland cattle. Theywere the only creatures like acquaintances thatDuncan had seen for a twelvemonth, and a tenderfeeling of joy, mixed with regret, thrilled his heart atthe sight of their white horns and broad dew-laps.As the van passed him, bethought their looks wereparticularly gruff and sullen ; he soon perceived thecause, they were all in the hands of Englishmen; poorexiles like himself; going far away to be killed andeaten, and would never see the Highland hills again!When they were all gone by, Duncan looked afterthem, and wept anew; but his attention was suddenly'called away to something that softly touched his feet;—he looked hastily about—it was a poor hungry lamedog, squatted on the ground, licking his feet, andmanifesting the most extravagant joy. GraciousHeaven ! it was his own beloved and faithful Oscar!starved, emaciated, and so crippled, that he wasscarcely able to walk ! He was now doomed to bethe slave of a Yorkshme peasant, (who it seems, hadeither bought or stolen him at P'alkirk) the generosityand benevolence of whose feelings were as inferior tothose of Oscar, as Oscar was inferior to him in5strength and power. It is impossible to conceive amore tender meeting than this was; hut Duncnnsoon observed that hunger and misery were paintedin his friend’s looks, which again pierced his heartwith feelings unfelt before.—‘ I have not a crumbto give you, my poor Oscar !’ said he—‘ I have nota crumb to eat myself, but I am not so ill as youare.’ The peasant whistled aloud. Oscar wellknew the sound, and clinging to the boy’s bosom,leaned his head upon his thigh, and looked in his ’face, as if saying, ‘O Duncan, protect me from yonruffian.’ The whistle was repeated, accompaniedby a loud and surly call. Oscar trembled, but fear¬ing to disobey, he limped away reluctantly after hisunfeeling master, who observing him to linger andlook back, imagined he wanted to effect his escape,and came running back to meet him. Oscar cower¬ed to the earth in the most submissive and implor¬ing manner, but the peasant laid hold of him by theear, and uttering many impracations, struck himwith a thick staff till he lay senseless at his feet.Every possible circumstance seemed combined towound the feelings of poor Duncan, but this unmer¬ited barbarity shocked him most of all. He hastedto the scene of action, weeping bitterly, and tellingthe man that he was a cruel brute, and that if everhe himself grew a big man he would certainly killhim. He held up his favourite’s head that he mightrecover his breath, and the man knowing that hecould do little without his dog, waited patiently tosee what would be the issue. The animal recover¬ed, and stammered away at the heels of his tyrant,without daring to look behind him, Duncan stoodstill, but kept his eyes eagerly fixed upon Oscar, andthe farther he went from him, the more strong his6desire grew to fellow him. He looked the otherway, hut all there was to him a blank—he had nodesire to stand where he was, so he followed Oscarand the drove of cattle.The cattle were weaiy and went slowly, andDuncan, getting a little rod in his hand, assistedthe men greatly in driving. One of the driversgave him a penny, and another gave him twopence ;and the lad who had the charge of the drove, observ¬ing how active and pliable he was, and how far hehad accompanied him on the way, gave him sixpence:this was a treasure to Duncan, who, being extremelyhungry, bought three penny rolls, as he passedthrough a town; one of these he ate himself, an¬other he gave to Oscar, and the third he carried be¬low his arm, in case of further necessity. He droveall the day, and at night the cattle rested upon aheight, which, by his description, seems to have beenthat between Gala Water and Middleton. Duncanwent oft’ at side in company with Oscar, to eat hisroll, and taking shelter behind an old earthen wall,they shared their dry meal most lovingly betweenthem. Ere it was quite finished Duncan beingfatigued, dropped into a profonud slumber, out ofwhich he did not awake until the next morning wasfar advanced. Englishmen, cattle, and Oscar allwere gone. Duncan found himself alone on a wildheight, in what country or kingdom he knew not.He sat fur some time in a callous stupor, rubbinghis eyes and scratching his head, but quite irresolutewfcat was farther necessary for him to do, until hewas agreeably surprised by the arrival of Oscar,who (though he had gone at his master’s call in theESorning) had found means to escape and seek theretreat of his young friend and benefactor. Duncan,wiliiout reflectiug on the confcequcnce> rejoiced inthe event, and thought of nothing else than further¬ing his escape from the ruthless tyrant who nowclaimed him. For this purpose he thought it wouldhe best to leave the road, and accordingly he crossedit, in order to go over a waste moor to the westward.He had not got forty paces from the road, until hobeheld the enraged Englishman running towardshuh without his coat, and having his staff heavedover his shoulder. Duncan’s heart fainted withinhim, knowing it was all over with Oscar, and mostlikely with himself. The peasant seemed not tohave observed them, as he was running, and ratherlooked the other way ; and as Duncan quickly lostsight of him in a hollow place that lay between them,he crept into a hush of heath and took Oscar in hisbosom ; the man bad observe from whence the dogstarted in the morning, and hasted to the place, ex¬pecting to find him sleeping beyond the old earthendike; he found the nest, hut the birds were flown :•—he called aloud; Oscar trembled and clung toDuncan’s breast; Duncait peeped through his pur¬ple covert like a heath-cock on his native waste, andagain beheld the ruffian coming straight towardsthem, with his staff still heaved, and fury in hislooks;—when he came within a few yards hebelow-ed out ‘ Oscar, yho, yho !’ Oscar quaked, and stillclung closer to Duncan’s breast; Duncan almostsunk to the earth; ‘ U——n him,’ said the Eng ■lishman, ‘ if I had a hold of him I should make bothhim and the little thievish rascal dear at a smallprice; they cannot he far gone—I think I hearthem ;’ he then stood listening, hut at that instantu farmer came up on horseback and having heardUm call, asked him if lie had lost his dog ? The8peasant answered in the affirmative, and added, thata blackgaurd hoy had stolen him. The farmer saidthat he met a boy with a dog about a mile forward.During this dialogue, the farmer’s dog came up toDuncan’s den, smelled upon him then upon Oscar,—cocked his tail, walked round them growling, andthen behaved in a very improper and uncival mannerto Duncan, who took all patiently, uncertain whitherhe was yet discovered. But so intent was the fel¬low upon the farmer’s intelligence, that he took nonotice of the discovery made by the dog, but ran oftwithout looking over his shoulder.Duncan felt this a deliverance so great, that allhis other distresses vanished; and as soon as thexjian was out of his sight, he arose from his covertand ran over the moor, and ere it was long, cameto a shepherd’s house, where he got some whey andbread for his breakfast, which he thought the bestmeat he had ever tasted, yet shared it with Oscar,Though I had his history from his own mouth,yet there is a space here which it is impossible torelate with any degree of distinctness or interest.He was a vagabond boy, without any fixed habita¬tion, and wandered about Heriot Moor, from onefarm house to another, for the space of a year;staying from one to twenty nights in each house,according as he found the people kind to him. Heseldom resented any indignity offered to himself,hut whoever insulted Oscar, or offered any obser¬vations on the impropriety of their friendship, lostDuncan’s company next morning. He staid severalmonths at a place called Dewer, which he said washaunted by the ghost of a piper;—the piper hadbeen murdered there many years before, in a man¬ner somewhat mysterious, or at least unaooounta-nLie; and there was scarcely a night hut which hewas supposed either to he seen or heard about thehouse. Duncan slept in the cow house, and wasterribly harrassed by the piper, he often heard himscratching about the rafters, and sometimes he wouldgroan like a man dying, or a cow that, was choakedin the band; but at length he saw him at his side-one night, which so discomposed him that he wasobliged to leave the place, after being ill for manydays. I shall give this story in Duncan’s ownwords, which I have often heard him repeat withoutany variation.I had been driving some young cattle to theheights of Willensfie—it grew late before I gothome. I was thinking, and thinking, how cruel itwas to kill the poor piper! to cut out his tongue,and stab him in the back. I thought it was nowonder that his ghost took it extremely ill; whe-n,all on a sudden, I perceived a light before me:—Ithought the wand in my hand was all on fire, andthrew it away, but I perceived the light glide slowlyby my right foot, and bum behind me; I was nothingafraid, and turned about to look at the light, andthere I saw the piper, who was standing hard at myback, and when I turned round, he looked me in theface.’ ‘ What was he like, Duncan ?’ * He waslike a dead body ! but I got a short view of him ;for that moment all around me grew dark as a pit!—I tried to run, but sunk powerless to the earth,and lay in a kind of dream, I do not know how long;when I came to myself, I got up, and endeavouredto run, but fell to the ground every two steps. I wasnot a hundred yards from the house, and I am sure.I fell upwards of a hundred times. Next day Iwas in a high fever: the servants made me a little10!>ed in tlie kitchen, to which I was confined hy ill¬ness many days, during which time I suflered themost dreadful agonies hy night, always imaginingthe piper to he standing over me on the one side orthe other. As soon as I was able to walk, I leftDewar, and for a long time durst never sleep aloneduring the night, nor stay hy myself in the daytime.’1 he superstitious ideas impressed upon Duncan’smind hy this unfortunate encounter with the ghostof the piper, seem never to have been eradicated;a strong instance of the power of early impressions,and a warning how much caution is necessary inmodelling the conceptions of the young and tendermind, for of all men I ever knew, he is the mostafraid of meeting with aparitions. So deeply is hisimagination minted with this startling illusion, thateven the calm disquisitions of reason have provedquite inadequate to the task of dispelling it. Whenever it wears late, he is always on the look out forthese ideal heings, keeping a jealous eye upon everyhush and brake, in case they should he lurking be¬hind them, ready to fly out and surprise him everymoment; and the approach of a person in the dark, orany sudden noise, always deprives him of the powerof speech for some time.After leaving Dewar, he again wandered about-for a few weeks; and it appears that his youth,beauty, and peculiarly destitute situation, togetherwith his friendship for his faithful Oscar, had in¬terested the most part of the country people in hisbehalf, for he was generally treated with kindness.He knew his father’s name, and the name of hishouse : hut as none of the people he visited had everIIbefore heard of either the one or the other, theygave themselves no trouble about the matter.He staid nearly two years in a place he eallr-dCowhaur, till a wretch, with whom he slept, struckand abused him one day. Duncan, in a rage, flew'to the loft, and cut all his Sunday hat, shoes andcoat in pieces; and not daring to abide the conse¬quences, decamped that night.He wandered about for some time longer amongthe farmer’s of Tweed and Yarrow; but this lifewas now become exceedingly disagreeable to him.He durst not sleep by himself, and the servants didnot always choose that a vagrant hoy and his greatdog should sleep with them.It was on a rainy night, at the close of harvestthat Dnncan came to my father’s house. I remem¬ber all the circumstances as well as the transactionsof yesterday. The whole of his clothing consistedonly of one black coat, which having heen made fora full grown man, hung fairly to his heels ; the hairof his head was rough, curled, and weather heaten ;but his face was ruddy and beautiful, bespeaking ahealthy body, and a sensible feeling heart. Oscarwas still nearly as large as himself, had the colourof a fox, with a white stripe down his face, and aring of the same colour around his neck, and was themost beautiful colley I have ever seen. My heartwas knit to Dnncan at the first sight, and I weptfor joy when I sawT my parents so kind to him.My mother in particular, could scarcely do anything else than converse with Duncan for severaldays. I was always of the party, and listensd withwonder and admiration ; but often have these adven¬tures been repeated to me. My parents, who soonseemod to feel the same concern for him as if he had12been their own son, clothed him in blue drugget,and bought him a smart little Highland bonnet; inwhich dress he looked so charming, that I would notlet them have peace until I got one of the same.Indeed, all that Duncan said or did was to me 9pattern, for I loved him as my own life. I was, atmy own request, which he persuaded me to urge,permitted to be his bed-fellow, and many a happynight and day did I spend with Duncan and Oscar.As far as I remember, we felt no privation of anykind, and would have been completely happy, if ithad not been for the fear of spirits. When theconversation chanced to turn upon the Piper ofDewar, the Maid of Flora, or the Pedlar of Thirle-stane Mill, often have we lain with the bed-clothesdrawn over our heads until nearly suffocated. Weloved the fairies and the brownies, and even felt alittle partiality fbr the mermaids, on account of theirbeauty and charming songs; we were a little jealousof the water-kelpies, and always kept aloof from thefrightsome pools. We hated the devil most heartily,but we were not much afraid of him ; but a ghost!oh dreadful! the name ghost, spirit, or apparition,sounded in our ears like the knell of destruction, andour hearts sunk within us as if pierced by the coldicy shaft of death. Duncan herded my father’scows all the summer—so did I—we could not liveasunder. We grew fishers so expert, that thespeckled trout, with all his art could not elude ourmachinations ; wTe forced him from his watery cove,admired the beautiful shades and purple drops thatwere painted on his sleeky sides, and forthwithadded him to our number, without reluctance. Weassailed the habitation of the wild bee, and rifled allher accumulated sweets, though not without en-13countering the most determined resistance. Myfather’s meadows abounded with hives; they werealmost in every swath—in every hillock. Whenthe swarm was large, they would heat us off, dayafter day. In all these desperate engagements,Oscar came to our assistance, and, provided thatnone of the enemy made a lodgement in his lowerdefiles, he was always the last combatant of ourparty on the field. I do not remember of ever be¬ing so much diverted by any scene I ever witnessed,or laughing so immoderately as I have done, at see¬ing Oscar involved in a moving cloud of wild bees,wheeling, snapping on all sides, and shaking his earsincessantly.The sagacity which this animal possessed is al¬most incredible, while his undaunted spirit andgenerosity it would do honour to every servant ofour own species to ropy. Twice did he save hi$master’s life: at one time when attacked by a furiousbull, and at another time when he fell from behindmy father, off a horse into a flooded river. Oscajhad just swimmed across but instantly plunged ina second time to his master's rescue. He first gothold of his bonnet, but that coming off, he quittedit, and again catching him by the coat, brought him)o the side, where my father reached him. 1 lewaked Duncan at a certain hour every morning, andwould frequently turn the cows of his own will,when he observed them wrong. If Duncan droppedhis knife, or any other small article, he would fetchit along in his mouth; and if sent back for a lostthing would infallibly find it. When sixteen yearsof age, after being unwell for several days, he diedone night below his master’s bed. On the eveningbefore, when Duncan came in from the plough, lie14came from his hiding place, wagged his tail, lickedDuncan’s hand, and returned to his death-bed,Duncan and I lamented him with unfeigned sorrow,buried him below the old rowan tree at the back ofmy father’s garden, placing a square stone at hishead, which was still standing the last lime I wasthere, With great labour, we composed an epitaphbetween us, which was once carved on that stone:the metre was good, hut the stone was so hard, andthe engraving so faint, that the characters, like thoseof our early joys, are long ago defaced and extinct.By the time that we were recalled from school toherd the cows next summer, we could both read theBible with considerable facility, hut Duncan far ex¬celled me in perspicacity ; and so fond was he ofreading Bible history, that the reading of it wasnow our constant amusement. Often have Mary,and he, and I, lain under the same plaid, by the sideof the corn or meadow, and read chapter about onthe Bible for hours together, weeping over the fail¬ings and fall of good men, and wondering at the in¬conceivable might of the heroes of antiquity. Neverwas man so delighted as Duncau was when he cameto the history of Sampson, and afterwards of Davidand Goliah; he could not be satisfied until he hadread it with every indiVdual with whom he was ac¬quainted, judging it to he as new and as interestingto everyone as it was to himself. I have seen himstanding by the girls as they were milking the cowsreading to them the feats of Sampson ; and, in short,harassing every man and woman, about the hamlet,for audience. On Sundays, my parents accom¬panied us to the fields, and joined in our delightfulext-rcise.Time passed array, and so also did our youthfull;->delights ; bi t other cares and other pleasures await¬ed us. As we advanced in years and strength, wequitted the herding, and bore a hand in the lalanirsof the farm. Mary, too, was often our assistantShe and Duncart were nearly of an age—he wastall, comely, and affable; and if Mary was notthe prettiest girl in the parish, at least Duncan andI believed her to be so, which with us, amounted tothe same thing. We often compared the othergirls in the parish with one another as to theirbeauty and accomplishments, but to think of com¬paring any of them with Mary, was entirely out ofthe question. She was, indeed, the emblem oftruth, simplicity, and innocence, and if there werefew more beautiful, there were still fewer so goodand amiable; but still as she advanced in years,she grew fonder and fonder of being near Duncan ;and by the time she was nineteen, was so deeply inlove, that it affected her manner, her spirits, andher health. At one time she was gay and friskyas a kitten; she would dance, sing, and laughviolently at the most trivial incidents. At othertimes she was sclent and sad, while a languishingsoftness overspread her features, and added greatlyto her charms. The passion was-undoubtedly mu¬tual hetweem them; hut Duncan either from asense of honour, or some other cause, never declaredhimself farther on the subject, than by the mostrespectful attention, and tender assiduities.About forty years ago the flocks of southernsheep which have since that period mundated theHighlands, had not found their way over theGrampian mountains, and the native flocks of thatSequestrated country were so scanty, that it wasfound necessary to transport small quantities of16wool annually to the north, to furnish materials forclothing the inhabitants. During two months ofeach summer, the hilly countries of the Lowlandswere inundated by hundreds of women from theHighlands, who bartered small articles of dress, andof domestic import, for wool; these were known bythe appellation of norlaii’ nettles; and few nightspassed, during the wool season, that some of themwere not lodged at my father’s house. It was fromtwo of these that Duncan learned one day that hewas the laird of Glenellich's only son and heir, andthat a large sum had been offered to any person thatcould discover him. My parents certainly rejoicedin Duncan’s good fortune, yet they were disconso¬late at parting with him: for he had long ago becomeas a son of their own ; and I seriously believe, thatfrom the day they first met, to that on which thetwo norlan' nettles came to our house, they neveronce entertained the idea of parting. For my part,I wished that the nettles had never been born, orthat they hail staid at their own home; for thethoughts of being separated from my dear friendmade me sick at heart. All our feelings were,however, nothing, when compared with those of mysister Mary.One day at dinner time, after a long and sullenpause, my father said, * I hope yon do not intendto leave us soon, Duncan ?’ ‘ I am thinking ofgoing away to morrow, Sir,’ said Duncan. TheKnife fell from my mother’s hand: she looked himsteadily in the face for the space of a minute.—‘ Duncan,’ said she, her voice faultering, and thetears dropping from her eyes, ‘ Duncan, 1 neverdurst ask you before, but I hope you will not leaveus altogether?’ Duncan thrust the plate from be-17fore him into the middle of the table—took up abook that lay on the window, and looked over thepages—Mary left the room. No answer was re¬turned, nor any further inquiry made, and ourlittle party broke up in silence.When we met again in the evening, we werestill all sullen. My father said, ‘ You will soonforget us, Duncan : but there are some among uswho will not so soon forget you.’ Mary again leftthe room, and silence ensued, until the family werecalled together for evening worship.The next morning, after a restless night, Duncanrose early put on his best suit, and packed up somelittle articles to carry with him. I lay panting andtrembling, but pretended to be fast asleep. Whenhe was ready to depart, he took his bundle belowhis arm came up to the side of the bed, and listen¬ed if I was sleeping. He then stood long hesitat¬ing, looking wistfully to the door and then to mealternately; and I saw him three or four timeswipe his eyes. At length he shook me gently bythe shoulder and, asked if I was awake. I feignedto start and answered as if half asleep. 41 mustbid you farewell,’ said he, groping to get hold ofmy hand. 4 Will you not breakfast with nsDuncan,’ said I. 4 No/ said he, 41 am thinkingthat it is best to steal away, for it will break myheart to take leave of your parents, and—’. 4 Andwho, Duncan?’ said I. 4 And you/ said he:4 indeed, hut it is best Duncan/ said I, 4 we willall breakfast together for the last time, and thentake a formal and kind leave of each other. Wedid breakfast together, and as the conversationturned on former days, it became highly interestingto us all.—When my father had returned thanks18to Heaven for our meal, we knew what was com¬ing, and began to look at each other. Duncan rose,and after we had all loaded him with our blessingsand warmest wishes, he embraced my parents andme. He turned about. His eyes Said plainly,there is somebody still wanting, but his heart wasso full he could not speak. ‘ What is become ofMary?’ said my father:—Mary was gone. Wesearched the house, the garden, and the houses offill the cottagers, but she was no where to be found.Poor lovelorn forsaken Mary ! She had hid her¬self in the ancient yew that grows in front of theold ruin, that she might see her lover depart,without herself being seen and might indulge in allthe luxury of woe.I must pass over Duncan’s journey to the northHighlands, for want of room; hut on the eveningof the sixth day after leaving my father’s house, liesearched the mansion-house of Glenelhch, whichstands in a little beautiful woody strath, command¬ing a view of the Di?u. Caledonian Sea, and partof the Hebrides; every avenue, tree, and nock, wasyet familiar to Duncan’s recollection. He had,without discovering himself, learned from a peasaartthat bis father was still alive, hut that he had neverovercome the loss of his son, for whom be lamentedevery day; that his wife and daughter lorded itover him, holding his pleasure at npught, and ren¬dering his age extremely unhappy; that they hadexpelled all his old farmers and vassela; and intro-*duced the lady’s vulgar presumptuous relations,who neither paid him rents, honour, nor obedience.Old Glenellich was taking his evening walk onthe road by which Duncan descended the strath tobis dwelling. He was pondering on bps own mis-19fortunes and did not even deign to lift his eyes asthe stranger approached, hut seemed counting thenumber of marks which the horse’s hoofs had madeon the way. ‘ Good e’en to you. Sir,’ said Dun¬can ;—the old man started and stared him full inthe face, hut with a look so unsteady and harrassed,that he seemed incapable of distinguishing anylineament or feature of it. ‘ Good e’en,’ said hewiping his brow with his arm, and passing by.—\Y hat there was in the voice that struck him soforcibly it is hard to say. Nature is powerful.Duncan could not think of ought to detain him ;and being desirious of seeing how matters went onabout the house, thought it best to remain somedays incog. He went into the fore-kitchen, coiir-versed freely with the servants, and soon saw hisstepmother and sister appear. The former had allthe insolence and ignorant pride of vulgarity raisedealth and eminence; the other seemed naturallyf an amiable disposition, hut was entirely ruledby her mother who taught her to disdain her father,all his relations, and whomsoever he loved. Onthe same evening he came into the kitchen, whereshe then was chatting with Duncan, to whom slieseemed attached at first sight. Lexy, my dear,said he, did you see my spectacles ? Yes, said she,I think I saw them on your nose to day, at break¬fast. Well, hut 1 have lost them since, said he.You may take up the next you find then. Sir, saidshe.—The servants laughed. I might well haveknown what information I would get of you, saidhe, regretfully. How can you speak in such astyle to your father, my dear lady ? said Duncan.If I were he, I would place you where you wouldlearn better manners. It ill becomes so pretty a20young lady to address an old father thus. He,said she, who minds him ? He’s a dotard, an oldwhining, complaining, superanuated being, worsethan a child. But consider his years, said Duncan,and besides, he may have met with crosses andlosses sufficient to sour the temper of a younger man.You should at all events, pity and reverence, butnever despise your father. 'Ihe old lady now join¬ed them. You have yet heard nothing, youngman, said the old laird, if you saw how my heartis sometimes wrung. Yes, I have had losses in¬deed. You losses ! said his spouse, No ; you neverhad any losses that did not in the end turn out avast profit. Do you then count the loss of a lovingwife and a son nothing ? said he. But have younot got a loving wife and a daughter in theirroom 9returned she ; the one will not waste your fortuneas a prodigal son would have done, and the otherwill take care of both you and that, when you canno longer do either—the loss of your son, indeed ;it was the greatest blessing you could have received.Unfeeling woman, said he; but heaven may yetrestore that son to protect the grey hairs of his oldfather, and lay his head in an honoured grave—The old man’s spirits were quite gone—he criedlike a child: his lady mimicked him—and, at this,his daughter and the servants raised a laugh. In¬human wretches, said Duncan, starting up, andpushing them aside, thus to mock the feelings ofan old man, even although he were not the lord andmaster of you all: but take notice, the individualamong you all that dares to offer such another insultto him. I’ll roast on that fire. The old man clungto him, and looked him ruefully in the face. louimpudent beggarly vagabond ! said the lady, do you21know to wurtm you speak ?—servants turn thatI wretch out of the house, ami haunt him with all thedogs in the kennel. Softly, softly, good lady, saidDuncan, take care that I do not turn you out ofthe house. Alas, good youth, said the old laird,you little know what you are about; for mercy'ssake forbear: you are brewing vengence both foryourself and me. Fear not, said Duncan. I willprotect you with my life. Pray, may I ask youwhat is your name ? said the old man, still lookingearnestly at him. That you may> replied Duncan,no man has so good a right to ask any thing of meas you have—I am Duncan Campbell, your ownson ! M-m-m-my son ! exclaimed the old man,and sunk back on a seat with a convulsive moan.Duncan held him in his arms—he soon recov-ered, and asked many incoherent questions—lookingat the two moles on his right leg—kissed him, andthen wrept on his bosom for joy. O God of heaven,said he, it is long since I could thank thee heartilyfor any thing; now I do thank thee indeed, for Ihave found my son ! my dear and only son !Contrary to what might have been expected,Duncan’s pretty only sister, Alexa, rejoiced mostof all in his discovery. She was almost wild withjoy at finding such a brother. The old lady, hermother, was said to have wept bitterly in private,but knowing that Duncan would be her master, shebehaved to him with civility and respect. Everything was commited to his management, and hesoon discovered, that besides a good clear estate,his father had personal funds to a great amount.The halls and cottages of Glenellich were filled withfeasting joy and gladness.It was not so at my father’s house. Misfortune22seldom comes singly. .Scarcely had cur feelingsovercome the shock, which they received hy the lossof our beloved Duncan, when a more terrible mis¬fortune overtook. My father, hy the monstrousingratitude of a friend whom we trusted, lost atonce the greater part of his hard earned fortune.The blow came unexpectedly, and distracted hispersonal affairs to such a degree, that an arirrange-ment seemed almost totally impracticable. Hestruggled on with securities for several months; b;rtperceiving that he he was drawing his real friendsinto, danger, by their signing of bonds which hemight never he able to redeem, he lost heart en¬tirely, and yielded to the torrent. Mary’s mindseemed to gain fresh energy every day. Theactivity and diligence which she evinced in managingthe affairs of the farm, and even in giving advicewith regard to other matters, is quite incredibleoften have I thought what a treasure that inesti¬mable girl would have been to an industrious manwhom she loved. All our efforts availed nothing,my father received letters of horning on hills to alarge, amount, and we expected every} day that liewould he taken from us and dragged to a prison.We were all sitting in our little room one day,consulting what was best to be done—we could de¬cide upon nothing, for our case was desperate—wewere fallen into a kind of stupor, but the windowbeing up, a sight appeared that quickly thrilledevery heart with the keenest sensation of anguish.Two men came riding sharply up by the hack ofthe old school house. Yonder are the officers ofjustice now7, said my mother, what shall we do?We hurried to the window, and all of us soon dis¬cerned that they were no other than some attorney,23accompanied by a sheriff’s' officer. My motherentreated of my father to escape and hide himselfuntil this first storm was overblown, but he wouldin nowise consent, assuring us that he had donenothing of which be was ashamed, and was deter¬mined to meet every one face to face, and let themdo (heir worst: so finding all our entreaties vain, wecould do nothing but sit down and weep. Atlength we heard the noise of'their horses at thedoor. You had better take, the men’s horses,James, said my father, as there is no other man athand. We will stay till they rap, if you please,said I. The cautious officer did nob however rap,hut dfraid lest his debtor should make his escape,he jumped lightly from his horse, and hasted intothe house. When we heard him open the outerdoor, and his footsteps approaching along the entry,our hearts fainted within us—he opened the door(and stepped into the rdom—it was Duncan! ourown deafly beloted Duncan. The women utteredan involuntary scream of surprise, hut my fatherrim and gut hold of one hand, and I of the otho*—my mother too, soon had him in her arms, hut ourembrace was short; for his eyes fixed on Mary,who stood trembling with joy and wonder in a cornerof the Voom, changing her colour every moment—hesnatched her up in his arms and kissed her lips, andere ever she was aware, her arms had encircled hisneck. O my dear Mary, said he, my heart hasbeen ill at ease since I left you, hut I durst not thentell you a word of my rnind, for I little knew howI was to find affairs in the place where I was going;hut ah! you little elusive rogue, you owe meanother for the one you cheated me out of then ; sosaying, he pressed his lips again to her cheek, and24then lead her to a scat. Duncan then recountedhis adventures to us, with every circumstance ofhis good fortune—our hearts were uplifted almostpast bearing—-all our cares and sorrows were nowforgotten, and we were once more the happiest littlegroup that ever perhaps sat together. Before thecloth was laid for dinner, Mary ran out to put onher white gown and comb her yellow hair, but wassurprised at meeting with a smart young gentlemanin the kitchen, with a scarlet neck on his coat, anda gold laced hat. Mary having never seen so finea gentleman, made him a low courtesy> and offeredto conduct him to the room: but he smiled, andtold her he was the squire’s servant. We had allof us forgot to ask for the gentleman that catnewith Duncan.Duncan and Mary walked for two hours in thegarden that evening; we do not know what passedbetween them, but the next day he asked her inmarriage of my parents, and never will I forget thesupreme happiness and gratitude that beamed inevery face on that happy occasion. I need not tellmy readers that my father’s affairs were soon re¬trieved, or that I accompanied my dear Mary abride to the Highlands, and had the satisfaction ofsaluting her as Mrs Campbell, and Lady of Glen-ellich.FINIS.