THEEXPLOITSOFWise Willy,ANDtv i r i vE P P IE,OFBUCKHAVEN.WITH ADescription of their College,I And Coat of Arms,Lang Sandy,' • ANDRolling Coughing Jenny’sWedding.EDINBURGH ;POINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLER/S1818.T H KHiSJORYOFWISE WILLIE, and WITTY IPPIE,The Ale WifiTPARTI.M ^^GST several ancient old recordsthiS Bucky is not" mentioned. There* was a sectcalled Bucpaneers, who were pirates, that is tosay, sea-robbers; but strict search being made:for these sea-robbers, they were dispersed—What of them escaped in the southern clifl'.ateare said to shelter at or near Berwick on Tweed.?Having differed amang them?elves a smart battleensued, aiiter which they divided, and it is saidjthe party who gained'this. But; k‘y battle, fearing,the English law would take place, they set north¬ward, and took up their residence at Buckhavenso (tailed not only on account of the great quan¬tities of buckles that are found in and about theplace, but on account of the battle they had withtheir neighbours at Berwick when they divided,which they called bucking one another, but nownamed boxing or fighting. Another carty of3»lose Buckers settled in a fnhiug town at BamTilia!led Bucky and’near the river Spey, which aio'w a pretty lars^e 8*a-town. B'it among-ailae sea-towns in Scotland, the fishers still' retain| language quite different from the peopie inae country, and always they shift the letter H,did use O instead thereof, which no cou itry-fieOpie in Scotland do but themselves. There isI corruption of speech in every country over allitritain, and likewise they use different tonesl|ud ways of pronouncing words from others;:!ven some in the south of Scotland can hardlyi e understood by those in the north, tho* both(retend to speak good English, and have a liberalart of education. But since learning is nowa easy to be obtained, ignorance and cor-uption of speech are greatiy decreased.| In the county of Fife on the sea-coast, there'fcands a little town inhabited by few but fishers,jailed Buck harbour, because of sea buckies andIjhells to be found so plenty on the rocks aboutpat place. Theie is little mention made ofhis town by historians, to know its original| xtraction and antiquities, but in their owtt: iurges-ticket, which was partly perfect truth,ut more of it by way of lampoon. This ticketvas dated the thirty-second day of the monthf Julius Caesar. Their coat of arms was twolands gripping each other over a scate’s rumple,"heir oath was, ‘ I wish that de defil mayik me an I binna an honest man to you an‘ ye binna de like to me.’ An article of good-neighbourhood they had, whoever was first upin a good morning, was to raise all the rest to goto sea; but if a very bad morning, piss amigoto. bed again till break of day, then raise WiseWilly, wiio could judge of the weather by theblawing of the wind.— l heir freedoms were,to take all sorts of fish contained in their tickets,as lobsters, partons, podlies, spout-fish, sea-cats,sea-dogs, flucks, pikes, dick-podocks, and p-fi h.Again, these people are said to have descended ]from one Tom and his’two sons who were fisherson the coast of Norway, who in a violent stormwere blown over and got ashore at liuckharbourwhere they settled; and the whole of his childrenwere called Tom-sons, and soon became a littletown by themselves, as few of any other namedwelt among them. This is a traditional story,handed down from one generation to another.They kept little communication with countrypeople about them, for a farmer in those days,thought his daughter cast away, if she marriedone of the fi hers in Bucky harbour; and on theother baud’,s Witty Eppie, the ale wife, wad asworn. Be go laddie, f wad rather see my boatand a’ my three sons dadded against the Bass, erI saw ony ane o’ them married to a muck a byre’sdaughter, a whin useless tappies, it can do nae-thing but rive at a tow rock, and cut a corn;they can neither bait a hook nor rade a line,houk sand,, eels, nor gather perriwinkels.1 Now, Wise Willy and Witty Eppie the| ale wife, lived there about a hundred years ago;Eppie's chamber was their College and Court-I house, where they decided contoversies, and>| explained their wonders; for the house was like;j a little kirk, had four windows and a gable door;I the wives got leave to flyte their fill«rt>ut fightingJ was prohibited as Eppie said, ‘ Up-hands wfast foui play.' T/ieir fines was a pint o’ ale, and)|{ Eppie sold it at a piack the pint, [’hey hadl neither minister nor magistrate, not a burley-J bailie, to brag them wi' his tolbooth. TheI Lord of the Manor decided ali disputable points,tj and Wise yvillie and Witty Eppie, the ale wife§ were the rulers of the town.tj Now, Eppie had a daughter, she call’d her| Lingle-taii d Nancy, because of her fecklessI growth; her waist was like a twitter, had na -curpen for a creel, being Edinburgh bred, andbrought up wi’ her Loudin aunty, was learnedto read and sew, madecsarsc claes, and callicoemancoes, there was riae a scholar in the townbut hersel, she read the bible, and the book ofkirk sangs was newly come in fashion. Willyand Eppie told them ay what it meant, and saida’ the letters in it was litted by my Lord, for< they saw him hae a feather that he dipped inblack water, and made crooked scores, just li' eif the same, ami then he spoke o‘er again, and ittold him what to say*0It happened on a day that two oc their'wives near the town found a horse-shoe, andbrought it home and sent for Willie to sea whatit was, Willie comes and looks at it; indeedco’ Willie its a thing and holes in’t. I kentco' they he would get a name till’t, A ho, co’Willie whar did ye find it. Aneath my Lord’sain house Willie. Adeed said Willie, it’s theauld moon, 1 ken by the holes xn’t, for nailing itto the lift; but I wonder it ;she fell in Fife, forthe last time it 1 saw her, she was hinging onher back aboon Edinburgh. A hech, co Williewe’ll set her upon the highest house in the town,and we’ll hae moon light o' our ain a‘ the dayso‘ the year. The whole town ran to see themoon; bout tout said Witty Eppie, ye‘re buta( fools thegifher; it’s but ane o' the things itmy Lord's mare wears upon her lufe.At another time one of their wives founda hare with its legs broken, lying among her kailin the yard. She not knowing what it was, |called out to her neighbours to see it. Somesaid it was a gentleman's cat, or my lady’slag dog. or a sheep's young kitlen, because it had !sufr horns, na mi, trie'1 Wise Willie, it's ane 1th mukins it genneme.d's dogs worries. .V will we do win. co’ they all,(ho wo: and make fish and sauceo‘t ’   I< patich. Na na, said .Witty Lppie, better gie t to my Lord, an he’il 1stap an iron stick through the guts o‘t, an gar‘t ]7tsrin round about the Sre till it be roasted. No,no, said Wise Willie, we’ll no d® that indeed;for my lord wad mak us a‘ dogs, an gir us rinthrough the eou.ntry seekin maukins lor hi n.I It happened on a dark winter morning,f! that two of their wives were going to Dysart«] to sell their fish; and on the road side theret happened to be some tinker's ass tathered.—. I The poor ass seeing the two wives coming withtheir creels, thought it was the tinker's comingto flit or relieve him, fell x crying; the two| wives threw their fish away, and run home like.J the very de'il, and that he spoke to them,|| but they didna ken what he said, for it was| words like a highlandmans ; the whole town||i was in an uproar; some would go with picks| and spades, and hag him in pieces, others wadi go and catch him in a strong net, and then theyI cou d either hang or drown him. Na na, co‘| Willie, we mauua cast out wi’ him at|ji,-s: as he’s gotten the twa burdens of fish*|| he'll e;en gang his wa‘ an no fash us nae mair.I he is o‘er supple to be catch’din a net; af you\pith will neither hang nor drOwa him, andthe kintry he comes frae, is a‘ het c ials, he'llnever burn; we‘11 gae to him in a civil manner,and see what he wants. Get out Eppi:,the ale wife, and LingUvtiidd Nancf, wi' thjBib e and Psalm-book. So off they come in■ y croud either to kill the deil, or catch him8alive; and as. they came near the place, the assfella crying, which caused many of them to faintand run back. Na ha co' Willie, that's naetne de’ils words at a’, its my Lords trumpetertouting on his brass whistle. Willie venturedtill he saw the ass;s twa lugs, now cried Willieback to the rest, come forward an‘ had him fast.I see his twa horns, hech sirs, he has a whitebeard iike an auld beggar man; so they inclosedthe peer ass on all sides, thinking it was the de’il,but when Wise Wihie saw he had nae clovenfeet, he cried out, Scarna lads, this is not thede’il, its some living beast; its neither cow norhorse. An what is t then. Willie? Indeed,co’ Willie, its the father o’ the maukins, l kenby its lang lugs.Now some say this history is too satirical,but it is according to the knowledge of thosetimes, not to say any place by ano her. Theold wives will tell you yet of many such stories,of the devil appearing to their grandfathers andgrandmothers, and dead wives coming back againto visit their families long after being dead.So this Buckhaven was once noted for drollexploits; but it is now become more known,and a place said to produce as hardy watermen,or sailors, of any town on the Scots coast. Yetmany of the old people in it still retain the oldtincture of t^eir ancient and uncultivated speechsuch as 3e go laddie, they are also of a fierynature, for if you ask any of their wives where9their college stands, they'll tell you, if yaur nosewere in their a—, your mouth would be at thedoor of it.Now, it So happened, when Wise Willieturned old he took a great swelling in his wameand casting up his kail, collops, and Cauld fish,that nothing could stand on his stomach, anda stout stomach he had, for crabs, heads, andscate-broth) or brose in a bridal morning, yet itfail d him, and befell sick; none could cure himnor tell what ail'd him. till a mountebank stagedoctor came to Kircaldy, that could judge bypeople’s piss, the trouble of their person-- Wise Willie hearing of his fame, pissed intoa bottle, and sent it away with his daughter.The bottle being uncorked his daughter spilt itby the way; to conceal her sloth in so doing,she pissed in d herself, and goes on till she cameto the stage doctor, when she cried out aloudSir doctor, sir doctor, here is a bottle of myfather’s wash, he has a sair guts, and needs nadrite ony, but spews a‘ he eats. Its true l tellyou my dow. The doctor looks at it, then says,Its not your father’s, surely it is your mother's,The do’ils itha man, said she, dinna 1 ken myfather frae my mither. [hen said he he iswith child. The de’ils itha man, co’ she, formy mither bare a' the bairns before, dat’s no; true sir; figs ye’re a great liar. Hame shecomes, and tell'd Willie, her father, that thedoctor said he was wi’ bairn O waes me, co’10Willie, fcr.I hae a muckle warre, arv I fear itloler true. O plague on. ye Janet!, for .ye.rcthe father o‘t, an i’m sure to die in bearing o‘tlWitty Eppie was sent for, as she was a koudie;an she fanfl a< Willie's wapie to be sure gbpu*Indeed co’ tppie, ye‘re the first man e‘er I sawwi‘ bAtm before, an how ye’ll b- ar it I dinnaiken, ye hae a wally wamp well 1 wat, bu6how men bear bairns i dinna ken. But l w ou <ldrink salt water, and drown it in my gut!#?;for if men get ance the-gate o’ bearing wean^tnemselves,. they 11 seek nae mair wives. S(|Willie drank sea wafer, till his guts was like td1rive, and out he got to ease himself in the kail^yard, and with the terrible noise of his farringjup starts a maukin behind him, who thought itwas shi.t: While seeing her juttip o‘er the dike!thotight it wasaehiid brctight.forth, and cries^out Come back, my dear, and be chn.ttncdjand dinna. tin to the hilis to be a Pagan bqiWillie grew better every day thereafter,' being;brought iq bed in the kaii-yard, but his daughterwas brought to bed some months after, whichiwas the cause ot the doctors mistake.11par r>ii.Now, Wise Wil.ie had a daughter, calledRoiling Coughing sjjnny, at she spoke thick,sax words at 3 times, ha'f sense, ha‘i ivjnsense^as her own records'wid bear witness. She beingwith child, was delivereda bonny lassie; andail the wives in the town cried out, be go laddie,its just like its ain father, Laug Sandy Fason,or Thomson, we ken be its nose; for Sandyhad a great muck e red nose, like s lpbster‘s tae,bowed at the point like a hawks neb; and Sandyhinr.’Sel sdd it was surely his, or some otherbodybut he had used his bur at the gettingo't to try his abilities, being the fi*^t time e‘erhe was at sic a business b f re; and when hehad d>>ne a* tliat ma.i could do at it, he said itwas nonsense; an shame fa‘ him, but he* wadrather row his b >at round the Bass an back agen,vi he‘d do the like again; fqr Wise Williegadewude at the wean, an1 said it had mair ill natureiu t than the au’dest wife about the town; forit pissed the bed and shi; ;he bed, skirl'd likea wild cat, and kept him frae hi; nights rest;and the auld .haggs about the town cmd himSandy, the bairns tiaddy, and a‘ the young gi iiegauky lassies held out their fingers, and cried,'Ft hie, hie, Sandy, the kirk wiji kittle your hipsfor that; an after a‘ the b ear-eyed b€ii-a;aa12came bladdering about the buttcck meal, sum¬moned him and her before the haly band, a cuortthat was held in the kirk on Saturday morning;and all the herd laddies round about cried, ay,ay Sandy, pay the bull siller, or we’ll cut thecow’s tail awa’. So poor Sandy suffered sadly inthe flesh, besides the penalty and kirk penance. ,But Wise Willie took pity on them, andgade w. i’ them to the kirkscourt, what learnedfolk call the session Jenny was first called uponand in she goes where all the haly band was,,convened, elders and younger deacons, anddog-payer keeping the door, the cankardest carlsthat could be gotten between Dysart and Duby-sitie, white heads and bald heads sitting wantin’bonnets, wi’ their white headed staves and hud-'cien grey jockey coats about them.Mess John says, Come away Janet, we’re,waiting on you here.Min. Now Janet where was this child got-;!ten ?Jan. A deed sir, it was gotten amang theblack stanes, at the cheek o‘ the crab holes.Mess John stares at her not knowing th,eplace, but some of the elders did. Then saidhe, O Janet, but the devil was busy with youat that time.Jan. A by n,y fegs sir, that’s a great lie|ye‘re tellin’ now, for the de’il was nae therej,13a that l saw, nor ony body else, to bid us do aething or anither; we io‘ed ither unco well fora iang time before that, and syne we tel I’d itheran agreed to marry ither like honest folkv thenmight na we learn to do the thing married folkdo, without the devil helping us.Whisht, whisht, cried they, ye should bescourg’d, false loon be quiet, ye‘re speaking non¬sense.Jan. De de’i's in the carles, for you andyour ministers is liars, when ye say it is the de ilit was helping Sandy and me to get a bairn.Come come said they pay down the kirkdues, and come back to the stool the morn; theptice is four pund, and a groat to the bell-man.jan. The auld thief speed the darth ®'t sir,far less might sair you and your bell-man bakb.O but this be a warid indeed, when pour hor.tstfolks maun pay for makin’ use of their own a--.Ye misca: the poor de’il a hint his back, an4 gi‘eshim de wyte o' a‘ the ill in the kintry, bastardbsirns and every thing, and if it be as ye sayye may thank de de*ii for that four pund and agroat l have gben ye; that gars your pot playbrown, and gets you jockey coats, pun-handedsaiks, and white headed staves, when my father'spot wallops up rough bear and blue water.! he woman is mad said they, for this moneyis ail given to the poor of die parish.14Jan. The poor of the parish, said she; fin;a'heir ye gr’e them but wee pick’es o’ pease mea|didna I $ee*'t in their pocks; and the master's wifjgaes tjaething ava to unco beggars, but bidtgang hame to their airi parishes: and yetye’ll tak the purse frae poor folk for naethingbut playing the loon awee or they be marriedan’syne cock them up to be looked on ailaugh’d at by every body ; a de’il speed yottan your justice sir. Hute tute ye‘re a cornffijon me like a wheen colly dogs hunting awa‘ ipoor ragged chapman frae the dtr-or. So oi|she goes cursing and greeting, Sandy Inext called upon, apd in he goes.Min. Now Sanders, you must tell us howth.s child was gotten.San. A now Mess John, sir, ye hae balmo‘ your ain, how did you get them, but y unare a* laddies, and ir ine is but a lassie, if you’<tell me how you got ycur iaddieS, I’ll tell yothow I got my lassie, and then we’ll be baitlalike good o‘ the business.The minister looks at him, and says, Hutetute, Sanders, lay down four puud and a groafand come back to morrow to the stool and gmsatisfaction to the congregation; you had motjneed to be seeking repentance for that abomiiiible sin of uucieanness than speaking so to me. >'San. Well here your siller sir, 1 hae goifejlbi^t poor penny worths fcr‘t, and so ye tell me ISro^fmt for’t; what the auld thief needs I repent,\*rhen I'm gaun to marry the woman; and thenl hae to, do’t o’er again eTery day, er there 11| be nae peace in the house; figs it? nonsense to| pty siller, repent, and did again too, a good ad-1 vice indeed master minister, an’ thats the way|| ■ to do.- ■. Willie. Now, sir, and you master elders,| ye mauna put them on the black creepy till theyit be married, theyve suffered enough at ae true.| Awed, aweel, said they, but they mustJ marry very soon.I '1 I true, says Sandy, ye’ll b? wanting mair1 clink; foul kae't ye do for naething, here.Hame comes Sandy, starving o‘ hunger; ye|l might a cast a knot on his lang guts. Hismither was baking p*sst up he get?t a lump of her leaven into his mouth. Auld'thiefbe in your haggles bag, Sandv, says his mither,kirk folk are ay greedy, ye hae been with theminister ail day; you’d get a guid lang grace, hemight a gien ye meat too; filthy dog that thou isyou have the bulk ol a little pye o‘ my leavenin your guts; it would a sair’d ane’s dimer, saea wad it e‘en, but an ye keep a reeking houseand a socking cradle three eleven years, as I hae) done, less o‘ that will serve you yet, baggybeast it thou is, main it 1 bore thee now, ahear ye that my dow.16The next exploit was an action at law, against!the goodrinan of Munedge, a farmer who livednear by, that kept sheep and swine. His sheepijcame down and broke their yards, and ate uptheir kail; the wild hares they thought belongedto the same man, as they ran to his house whenthey were hunted. The swine came very ofenin about their houses, seeking fish guts and any¬thing they could get; so it happened, when one'of the children was sitting easing itself, that)one of the swine tumbled it over, and bit a piecdlout of its backside! The whole town rose it^an uproar against grunkie, as they called her*caught her, and took her before Wise Willie;He took an axe and cut two or three inches offher long nose. Now says he, 1 trow I haemade thee something like another beast tin U;had sic a lang mouth before, it wad a frighted!a very de’ti to look at ye, but now ye’re facedlike a little horse er cow. The poor sow ranjhome roaring, ail blood, and wanting the ncsejwhich caused Muiredge to warn them in beforemy Lord. So the wives that had their kail eatenappeared first in the court, complaining againstiMuiredge. Indeed my Lord said they, Muir¬edge is no a good man, when he is sic an illneighbour; he keeps black hares and white hareslitrle wee brown backed hares wi‘ white arsesjand loo. e wagging horns; they creep in at ouiwater gush holes, and does the like. When wecry, Pu»sie, pussie, they rin hame to Muiredge:179it [’1] garmycoiley had them by the fit<an I’llid them by the horn, an puf the hair aff them,id send ‘ em hame wanting the skin, as wi‘>Wen rammy‘s wee Sandy, for Codin o‘ his?ase, he took aff the poor laddies coat, and saehe e’en. And Willie said* If ye were a sowly Lord, and me si ting driting, and you to.bhely arse, sudna I hae amends of you for thfct!my Lord you waJna hae a bit out of yourrse for twenty merks; ve maun e'en gar Muir-Ige gi’e ten merks to buy a plaster, to heal theier bit weans arse again.Weil said, Willie, says my Lord ; but whoits on the s»w‘s nose again.A fegs my Lord, said Willie, she’s hones'er;e wantin’ it, a.id she'll bite nae mair arses;>.n ye had hane a nose mv Lord, as lang as the>w had, ye'd been obliged to ony body it wadit a piece aft.A gentleman coming past near their town,sked one of their wives where their collegeIpod? Said she, Gie me a shilling; an I'll let youte baith sides q,’!. He gives her the shilling,making to see something curious. Now sayshe, there’s the one side of your shilling, andhere's the other; so it’s mine now.Now Wise Willie being greatly admiredmr his just judgment in cutting off the sows noseVy Lord, in a mocking manner, made him burlylailie of Buckhaven; Lang Sandy was Provost,18and Jbhn Thrums the weaver was dean of guildiBut Witty Eppie had ay the casting vote in atheir courts and controversies.PART II.There happened one day a running horseto be standing at one of their doors, and a childgoing about, the horse tramped upon the child’!foot, which caused the poor child to cry: themother came running in a passion crying, A waebe to you for a horse, filthy barbarian brute iit'ou is, sertin’ a muckle iron lufe on my bairn*wee fittie. Od sir, I’ll rive the hair out o‘your head, gripping the horse by the mane andthe twa lugs, cuffing his chaffs, as he had beeqher fellow-creature, crying Bego laddie, I‘il gatyou as good, Fll tak you afore Wise V\ illie thebaillie, an he’ll cut aff your hand wi’ de iron lufeian ye’U be cripple, an gang thro’ the kintry itsa barrow, or on twa shule staves, like Rab theRandy, and a meal pock about your neck.—Her neighbour hearing and seeing what pass'd^cries, O y.. n fool taupy, m hat gars you speak.:that gate till a horse, he di.na ken ae wordthat ye’re saying to him.When Long Sandy and Rolling CoughingJenny were married, their wedding took ujf>thvee aava and two nights. .My Lord, and my,ndy, with several other ladles and gentlemenintended for diversions sake. The piper ofrcaldy and the fidler of Kinghorn were bothidden by Wise Willie, the bride s father; and'any more came to play unbidden, Willie swore;y should sit unsaiTd, for these twa sud getde siller dat was to be gi’en or win. Thati'ay the dinner and dorter-meat sat in Eppie'sI College, and the dancing stood in twa ringsefore the door; and the first day the duntmgnd dangling of their heels dang down the sea-yke; some stumbled in. and some held by thetones, the fidler fell in o'er the lugs, and druck.it|is fiddle, the strings gade out n‘ order, andlijhe tripes turn’d salt like pudd.ng skins;) so theliper had to do for a’, and the fidler had naethingJo do but to sup kail and pick banes wi’ the restif them. Now, my Lords cook was to ordetfche kettle, but lahg Pate o‘ the Pans p!ay‘d a saduat, by casting twa pound of candle among the;ail, which made them so fat that some couldlot sup them, and the candle wicks come ay intoheir cutties like souters iingies in ihe dishes,rut some, wi’ stronger stomachs, stripped them'trough their teeth like rats tails, and said,lony ane wad be blythe o‘ sic a string :o tie upleir hose in a pinch. My lord and the gentry,dess John and the Clerk, were ai! placed athe head of the table, opposite the bride, butvouid sup none of the candle kail. Williend the bridegroom served the table, and cried,up an a sorrow to ye, for 1 ne’er !iked sour20kail about my house. When the flesh came;the bride got a ram‘s rumple to pick. She talait up and wags it at my Lord, saying, Ti-hhmy Lord, what an a piece is this.'* Oh, saicmy Lord, that’s the tail piece, it belongs to youbride. lt‘s no mine, I never had the Hke o't,it‘s a fish tail, see as it wags but its a bit otsome dead beast. O yes said he bride, yothave hit it now, but how come you to eat \vit|your gloves on. Indeed my Lord, there'!a reason for dat too. I hae scabbed hand*O said he, I cannot beneve you. She pulled otHa part of the glove, and shewed him. O yegsaid he, I see it is so. Aha. said six*, but J wishye saw my a—e, my Lord, its a in ae hotter.O fy, William, said my Lord, I wonder youdon’t teach your daughter to speak with moremodesty. By my sae my Lord, ye may aswell kiss her a-e. I find so, said my Lord,but it is for want of a teacher.1 he next dish that was set on the table'was roasted^hens; and the bride s portion beinglaid on her plate, she says to my Lord, will yelet me dip my fowl arse amang your sauce!Upon my word, said my Lord, I will not if it beas ye teii me. Hute my Lord, said the bride*,its no my arse, its but de hen’S that 1 mean.O but said he, its the fashion for every one toeai off their own trencher, you may get moresauce, I can manage mv own myself. Indeedmy Lord said she I thought you like mebette21ior ony ither body. True said he, but I liceou should not speak hi of my lady for she hearsnyseif best. Deed ir,y Lord, I think ye’rehe best body about the house, for your Lady'shit a stinkin' pridefu’ jade, she thinks that weud make de fish and de baddies a‘ alike; be-gony Lord she thinks we can shape them as de henloes her egg wi’ her arse. O bride says he,you should not speak ill of my lady, for she hearstyou very well. O deed my Lord I had naeifrnind o- dat. Drink to me, then, said he,jor them you like- bf’st. Then says she here’so ye a‘ de gidder heels o'er head. Very well,aid, says my Lord, that's good sense.Dinner being over, my Lord desired the- bride to dance Indeed my Lord, said she,I canna dance ony, but l‘!l gar my wame wallopfoment yours, and then wc 11 rin round aboutE as fast’s we can. Very well bride said he, thatI will just do; we shall neither kiss nor shakehands, but I'll bow to thee, and ye’ll beck to me,so we’ll have done. So after the dinner anddancing, my lord exhorted the bride to be agood neighbonr, and ‘gree with every bodyround about. 1 wat weel my lord, said she,ye ken I ne'er cast out wi’ ony one but JangPate o’ the Pans, an he had a de wyte o t; hebegan and was ay jeering me about Sandy,de black stanes and de crab holes where de weanwas gotten; and then it turned to a hubbub ancullyshangy, and or ere you ceuld kiss my arse,22rr.y lord, we was aboon ither on the musseltmdden. I traw l teli’d him o* Randy Rab, hu ;ungie, his air> titty, it steal d de sarks and. dranit rde sider. and how his mither sal d mauky muttonan mair than a< that, my Lord.My Lord h;»d' a friend, a captain in thearmy, who came to visit him, and having heard 1of the Backers sayings and exploits, was desirousto see thorn. My Lord, to put them in a fright, (sent his servant to order them, all men and Iwomen, to come up before his gate to-morrow 1about kail time; and a'l that did not come, wasto flit and remove out of my Lord's groundtiivtctjy; This put the whole town in a terriblecousnrnation; some ran to Wise Willie to seeif he could tell what.it meant. Willie said, that jir was before something: and he said he was ware .death was the worst o’t, come what will. But |Witty Lppie said i ken well what's to come,he;s gaun to make de men o's a' soldiers, andthe wives dragoons, because they're the best. ■fighters; 1 ken there's something to come on $the town, for our Nancy saw Maggy's ghaist thestreet), it was buried about four weeks sinsyne.A j>ech, co’ Willie, that’s a sign the meal is dear ^in the ither warld, when she comes back to thisane again; we’ll tak our dinner afore we gaeto my Lord, we’ll may he ne’er come back again.So away they went, lamenting, all in a rxowd.My Lord and the Captain was looking over thewindow when they arrived; and the Captainto them, Vo the nght about-. To wliicajey answer'll, O b e :: you, my L rd, what isit man “sayin’! ays my Lord* He bids youirn your Tees to Maggy-s hill, and your a—s> the se i; which they did m all haste- An,, what .dll we do now!* said Willie/ No more, said,j Lord, but go ah home Willie. O my dow!ly blessing come on your boany .faay1, mylord, I wish you may never die, imr ever grow:k, nor nae body fell you, ye are the best mama‘ the vrarld, for we tlrought a to be deadmen or sedgers, ye‘re wiser titan a< the witchestT rite coast of Fife, or in a‘ the warld.There ’ \vas a custom in Rucky harbour,-hen they got a hearty drink, that they wentown to dance among the bouts; and two or[tree of the oldest went into a boat to see theest dance. And when they admitted a burgher,lere was always a dance. One day they ad¬mitted glyM Rob, who was a warlike, and madetern ad to stop their dancing; for which he wasarried before Wise Willie, to answer 'for thisiis crime; for which he was banished to the islef May, at the mouth of the Frith of Forth, toarry coals to the Light House.The Bucky iads and lasses, when they go toather bait, tell strange stories, about ghosts/itches, Willie wi’ the wisp, and the Kelpy,airies, maukins, and bogles of all sorts. Theyhink the ghosts go all night, like aulu horses,to carrva|dies are !; of catsfor fear of bdng seen, and be made toskate fish, andudulce. They think witchesthe worst kind of devils, and make use of ito ride upon, or kail kebbers and besom shafts;and that they sail over the sea in cockle shells,and bewitches lads and lasses and disables bride¬grooms. They think Willie and the Wisp is.a fiery devil, and lead people off their road to>'drown them in the sea. They think Kelpy isa fly devil and roars before a loss at sea. And.they believe that the Fairies lift new born bairn&from their mothers, and that none of them are,safe to lie with their mothers for a night or two/"after they are born, unless the mother get a pair5of men’s breeches under their head, which setsthe fairies adrift. But if the y neglect re do this,they say the fairies will carry of the child, atukleave a block ef wood with the mother.