flM, LIBRSCOTIA-Iv^eoiNpGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.FASHIONABLE SONGS.I>H IMXKD EOK IHE B00KWKTrEB8*ervaeoit**kV8HIOI^1VBrr 80MC8'OhY CH' ilO!' >I.TEC.;.MytgmeEFZ, compmiok!3FAREWELL I-BUT WHENEVER YOU WELCOMTHE HOUR.1-,t‘91^Words by Moore.h'arewell! but whenever you welcome the hour,That awakens the night-song of mirth in your bower,Then think of the friend who once welcomed it too.A nd forgot his own griefs to be happy with you.His griefs may return—not a hope may remainOf the few that have brighten’d his path-way of pain—.But he ne’er will forget the short vision that threwIts enchantment around him, while ling’ring with you.And still on that evening, when pleasure fills upTo the highest top sparkle each heart and each cup,Where’er my path lies, be it gloomy or bright,My soul, happy friends ! shall be with you that night.Shall join in your revels, your sports, and your wiles.And return to me, beaming all o’er with your smiles!—Too bless’d if he tells me that, ’mid the gay cheer,Some kind voice had murmur’d, “ I wish he were here I"Let fate do her worst! there are relics of joy,Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy.Which come, in the night-time of sorrow and care,And bring back the features that joy used to wear.Long, long be my heart with such memories filled ;Like the vase in which roses have once been distill’d!You may break, you may ruin the vase, if you will;But the scent of the roses will hang round it still.HERE’S A HEALTH, BONNIE SCOTLAND, TO THEE.I Ballad. Sung bj Madame Veslris. Ml«i Stephens, Miss T.ofr, Ml,, Paton, andandertLe?m lh<! PoetT7 17 'V‘ H- freeman, Eaq. The Melodj by Alex.H ere’s a health to fair Scotland, the land of the brave!Here’s a health to the bold and the free !4nd as long as the thistle and heather shall wave.Here’s a health, bonnie Scotland, to thee !4Here'* » health to the land of victorious Bruce,And the champions of liberty’s cause !And may their example fresh heroes produce.In defence of our rights and our laws.Here’s a health, &c.Here's a health to the land where bold Wallace imfurle'1His bright banner of conquest and fame—The terror of focmen, the pride of the world !—Long may Scotland hold dearly his name !And still, like their fathers, our brothers are true,And their valour with pleasure we see ;Of the wreaths that were won at renowned WaterlooThere's a bough of the laurel for thee.Here’s a health, &c.Here's success to the shamrock, the thistle, the rose,May they ever in harmony twine !And should wily discord again intorpose,Let us challenge each other in wine.For while we’re united, foes threaten in vain,And their daring our fame shall increase,Till the banner of Victory o’er land and main,Triumphant is waving in peace.Here’s a health, &c.MERRILY, MERRILY GOES THE BARK.Wgtm •* L®wl of the Ialeta a Poem, written bj Sir Walter Scott. Musicw bj Mauunghi.Merrily, merrily goes the bark,Before the gale she bounds.So darts the dolphin from the shark.Or the deer before the houndsThey left Loch Tua on their lee,And they wakened the men of wild Tiree,And the chief of the sandy Coll.They paused not at Columba’s Isle,Though pealed the bells at the hoary pile,With long and measured toll.No time for matin or for mass.And the sounds of the holy summons passAway to the billow’s rolL5'5OFT IN THE STILLY NIGHT.Wordi bj Moore. Mmic,—“ March to the battle field."Oft in the stilly night,Ere slumber’s chain has bound me,fond memory brings the lightOf other days around me.The smiles, the tears, of boyhood’s years,The words of love then spoken,The eyes that shone, now dimmed and gone.The cheerful vow now broken.Thus in the stilly night,Ere slumber's chain lias bound me,Sad memory brings the lightOf other days around me.When I remember allThe fiiends so linked together,I’ve seen around me fall,Like leaves in wintry weather,—I feel like one who treads aloneSome banquet-hall deserted,Whose lights are tied, whose garland's dead.And all but me departed.Thus in the stilly night.Ere slumber's chain has bound me,Sad memory brings the lightOf other days areund me.A LASSIE LIVES BY YONDER BURN.Wont( by Mr Crnwell. Set to Music, with in accompaniment Amt theFort*, by J. Jaap.A lassie lives by yonder burn,That jinks about the seggins ;There aft she gi’es her sheep a turn,To feed ainang the brakens.Could I believe she’d woo wi' me.In spite of mam or daddie,Id aften slip out owre the lea.An’ row her in my plaidie.6tier breast to busk, I’d violets pu’,That blavv aboon the boggie,And blue bells hingin’ wat wi’ dew,Frae yonder glen sae foggie.Could I believe she’d woo wi’ me.An’ tak me for her laddie.I’d aften slip out owre the lea,And row her in my plaidie.1 maun awa, I canna stay,Should a’ gang tapsalteerie ;Should boggles meet me in the way.This night I’ll see my dearie.I’ll ben the spence and dress a-wee,Wi’ knots and bughts fu’ gaudy,For I canna rest until I seeGin she’ll come in my plaidie.  . irLOVE WAKES AND WEEPS.A Du«t. Arranged by Parry. Written Sir WalterLove wakes and weepsWhile Beauty sleeps !O for Music’s softest numbers,To prompt a theme,For Beauty’s dream,Soft as the pillew of her slumbers !Through groves of palm,Sigh gales of balm,Fire flies on the air are wheeling;While through the gloomComes soft perfume,The distant beds of flowers revealing.■ ■■ ■ ■ _O wake and live !No dream can giveA shadowed bliss the real excelling;No longer sleep,From lattice peep,And list the tale that Love is telling.FOLLOW, FOLLOW OVER MOUNTAIN.Ton# by Mia f aton. The Poetry by F. W. Hohler, Esq. The Music by S. T. Smith.- hfiL’Qi ^ a~And the spirit shall guide thee orer seas, and mountains covereil with roses, tol-ove’s fitmtain; whose waters thou shall taste, and thou shall forget thy unhappy lot®Achnor and Samef. an Oriental Romance-Follow, follow over mountain,Follow, follow over sea,And I’ll guide thee to Love’s fountain,ff you’ll follow, follow me.Follow, follow, &c.* |BIJ 97o! OQW r.B<.n) moil 99107 t. 9JI.LWith the waters of the fountainWill I ease thy aehing heart.And the roses of the mountainShall to thee a balm impart.Follow, follow, &c.— uo.j.i ja9i lifji u'j-jip >!mFor woman’s love is dearly bought,If bought with peace of mind ;But taste the fount, and not a thoughtOf love is left behind.Follow, follow, &c.j.iai :ri: rt v v .vo 'tv.I’ll fan thee with the Zephyr’s wing,And watch thee night and day,. .TO guide thee to Lome’s healing spring—So follow and away.Follow, follow, follow, follow, and away.Follow, follow, and away.rrnmrm svl^^n flwo inoii.ISLE OF BEAUTY, FARE-THERWELL!Krom the first Tolume of “ Songs to Rosa,” by Thomrrs H. Bayly, Esq. The \felodyi-omposed by Charles S. Whitmore, Esq. The Symphonic* and Accoiupanlmt nUby J. A. Rawlings.Shades of evening ! close not o’er us jLeave our lonely bark awhile !Mom, alas ! will not restore usYonder dim and distant isle.Brill my fancy can discorerSunny spots where friends may dwellDarker shadows round us hover—Isle of beauty ! fare-thee-well!’Tis the hour when happy facesSmile around the taper’s light;—Who will fill our vacant places ?Who will sing our songs to-night ?Through the mist that floats above usFaintly sounds the vesper hell.Like a voice from those who love us,Breathing fondly, “ Fare-thee-well!”When the waves are round me breaking,As I pace the deck alone,And my eye in vain is seekingSome green leaf to rest upon,—What would I not give to wanderWhere my old companions dwell;Absence makes the heart grow fonder;—Isle of beauty ! fare-thee-well!MY OWN NATIVE ISLEM usic by Bishop.There’s an isle, clasped by waves in an emerald zone,That peers forth from ocean so pearl-like and fair.As if nature meant it the water-king’s throne;—A youth, whom I name not, remembers me there.The breeze now in murmurs a 'plaint brings from far,From my own native isle and my lover’s guitar.O ! cheer thee, fond mourner, let hope’s whisper snl ;The wild pang of absence and doubt too unkind,The maid thou upbraidest for thee sighs as often,And speeds gentle wishes by every wind.Then, winds, blow ye homeward—waves, waft me ul.iTo my own native isle and my lover's guitar.01THE CAPTIVE KNIGHT.Ball 4, Tbo Word* by Mri Hemam, the Mnsic by her Sister; and bethfully dedicated to Sir Walter Scott.*T\vaa a trumpet’s pealing sound !>\nd the Knight looked down from the Paynim’sAnd a Christian host, in its pride and power,Through the pass beneath him wound.“ Cease awhile, clarion ! clarion, wild and shrill,Cease ! let them hear the captive’s voice ! he still!“ I knew 'twas a note !Adi see my brethren’s lances gleam,And their pennons wave by the mountain stream,And their plumes to the glad wind float.“ I am here with my heavy chain !tint I look on a torrent sweeping by,And an eagle rushing to the sky,And a host to its battle plain.“ Must I pine in my fetters hereWith the wild wave’s foam, and the free bird’s flight,And the tall spears glancing on my sight,And the trumpet in mine car ?Cease awhile, clarion ! clarion, wild and shrill.Cease ! let them hear the captive’s voice! be still! be still!“ They are gone ! they have all passed by !They in whose wars I had borne my part—They that I loved with a brother’s heartThey have left me here to die !Sound again, clarion ! clarion, pour thy blast!Sound ! for the captive’s dream of hope is past."SHOULD HE UPBRAID.Mutlc bj Bishop. Sung bj Mlu St.ph«ns, Miss M. Tim, and Wm Pa kmShould he upbraid. I’ll own that he’d prevail.And sing as sweetly as the nightingale ;Say that he frown, I’ll say his looks I viewAs mornin roses newly tipped with dew;Say he be mute, I’ll answer with a smile.And dance, and play, and wrinkled care beguile,10.THOWa aVlTSAP 3HTJOHN ANHEKSON, MY JO.•lin< bj Mia* Stephana, See. « Hh great applauta. Word* br BurntJohn Anderson, my jo, John,When we were first aequent,Your locks were like the raven.Your bonnie brow was brent;But now your brow is held, John,Your locks are like the snow.Yet blessings on your frosty pow,John Anderson, my jo.John Anderson, my jo, John,We clamb the hill thegither,And monie a cantie day, John,We’ve had wi’ ane anither ;Now we maun totter down, John,But hand in hand we’ll go.And sleep thegither at the foot,John Anderson, my jo.—THE BONNIE WEE WIFE.A Ballad, sung by Madame Veatris, Mrs Asbe, and Miss Puton, at the Oratorand Musical Festivals. Written bj .Burn*.She is a winsome wee thing,She is a handsome wee thing,She is a bonnie wee thing.This sweet wee wife o’ mine.I never saw a fairer,I never lo’ed a dearer,And n'eist my heart I’ll wear her,For fear my jewel tine.She is a winsome wee thing.She is a handsome wee thing,She is a bonnie wee thing.This sweet wee wife o’ mine.The warld’s wrack we share o’t.The warstle and the care o’t,Wi’ her I’ll blithely bear it,And think my lot div'ne.11HOMAGE TO CHARLIE.Music by Lee.Sound tne horn,Hailing the morn,Bonnie lad march over muir and furrovVThrough the glen,Early we’ll ken,Who shall pay homage to Charlie to-morrow.The colours are uymg,The foemen defying,In triumph replying, that freedom is near,The war-pipes are sounding.Brave hearts are all bounding,With valour surrounding the young ChavalierSound the horn, &c.Though now we may sever,It may be for ever,From those we love, never be ours the sad tea.No ! boldly we’ll sally,From bill and from valley,Round Charlie to rally, the young Chavalier.Sound the horn, &c.CEASE THUS TO PALPITATESung by Madame Fasta. Music,—*4 Dl tanti palpltl."Cease thus to palpitate,Cease, silly ilutterer, pray;Though on thy future fateLove decides to-day,Cease to alarm me,Fond fears, away,Duty must arm meMy sire to obey.Though sighing and dying,Pursuing and wooing,Discover to loversch treasure and pleasure;12✓et Virtue’s power you’ll findAbove poor Cupid’s sway,While Love, most truly blind,Too seldom finds his way.Reason then guide me,Cupid away,Mine be the lover.Who, prudent as kind,Aims to discoverA charm in the mind:Who, prizing everThe heart alone,Will build his love on Virtue1* throna,And never, neverThat love disown.AYE WAKING, OH1Arranged by Dewar. Sung by MUa Noel.Aye wakin’, oh !Wakin’ aye and weary ;Rest I canna get,For thinking of my dearie.Oh, this love, this love !Life to me how dreary !When I sleep I dream,Oh ! when I wake I’m eerie.Oh, this love, this love !Long, long the night.Heavy comes the morrow.While my soul’s delightIs on his bed of sorrow.Hear me, powers divine !Oh, in pity hear me!Take aught else of mine.But my lover spare me.Spare, oh, spare my lov« ': Yii»«8*ik! bflti oiuenoU d iDRAW THE SWORD, SCOTLAND.bortry bj J, tL Planche. Alterwl and arranged by G. Herbert Rodwetl. Sunby Mr Sinclair and Mr Thorne.Draw the sword, Scotland, Scotland, Scotland!Over mountain and moor hath passed the war-sign :The pibroch is pealing, pealing, pealing,Who heeds not the summons is nae son o’ thine.The clans they are gath’ring, gath’ring, gath’ring,The clans they are gath’ring by loch and by lea;The banners they are flying, flying, flying,The banners they are flying that lead to victory.Draw the sword, Scotland, Scotland, Scotland lCharge as ye’ve charged in the days o’ langsyne ;Sound to the onset, the onset, the onset,He who but falters is nae son o’ thine.Sheath the sword, Scotland, Scotland, Scotland !Sheath the sword, Scotland, for dimmed is its shineThy foemen are fleeing, fleeing, fleeing,And wha kens nae mercy is nae son o’ thine !The struggle is over, over, over,The struggle is over !—the victory won !—There are tears for the fallen, the fallen, the fallen,And glory for all who their duty have done !Sheath the sword, Scotland, Scotland, Scotland !With thy loved thistle new laurels entwine;Time shall ne’er part them, part them, part them,But hand down the garland to each son o’ thine.HOW BLEST THE MAID.A Duet.How blest the maid whose bosom no headstrong passionknows !Her days in joy she passes, her nights in calm reposeWhere’er her fancy leads her,No pain, no fear invades herBut pleasure, without measure, from every object flow*.14THEY SAY MY LOVE IS DEAD.'1'he celebrated Maniac Song, from the first Number of I,in]eyvs Scottish Melodiesarranged for, and Sung by Miss H. Patou. Ti e Syinj-houies and accouipani.menu by Charles E. Byrne. The Poetry by George Liniey, Esq.o ttoa i «itiofnrrfu« onJTO;T<n^r)» OuTfRECITATIVE.List to her notes of woe that float upon the air,Like the soft murmur of the distant wave !Mark her, lorn maiden! twined amid her raven hair,The violef, long withered, and meek daisy mingle there ;With weeds and wild floeers rudely o’er her strewn.Poor heart—distracted one ! thy grief is like mine own :Having nor-end nor home—but in the grave!ikllooi!.AIR.«jd» dJeodaJ dlaodSThey say my love is dead—Gone to his green turf bed ;lint the bonnie moon shines red where lie’s laid ;He gave me flowers three,Down beside yon willow-tree,And he’ll come again to me ere they tilde.O ! yes, he will come, 8cc.I he glow-worm hath a light,l"‘ For the fairy queen of night, ^lint my true love’s shroud so white lighteth me;’Tis whiter than the snowThat sparkles on the boughWhere sweet Robin singeth now merrily.Where sweet, &c.’Tis Hallow-mass’ e’en,And around the holly greenThe fairy elves are seen tripping light;And thither 1 must be,Ere their queen has left the lea ;For she comes to marry me to my ownShe comes, Ike./endit ax*1*1true lovejH15THR FAIREST FLOWER.Music by Lro.I have plucked the sweetest flower,I have dreamed in Fancy’s bowerI have basked in Beauty’s eyes,I have mingled melting sighs ;If all these sweets to hive,I’m the guiltiest man alive.But, gentle maids, believe,I never cap deceive.Nor cause your breast to heaveWith a sad heigh ho !... !‘But to raise in Beauty’s frame,The burning blush of shame,Or bid the tear to start,Far be it from my heart;Such base attempts I scorn,To honour I was born.Then, gentle maidens, spareThe heart you thus ensnare,Or the willow I must wearWith a sad heigh ho !—MY LUTE IT HAS BUT ONE SWEET SONO.Ballad Sung by Miss Lote. Written, and Music comi.oscd.by J. AugustineWade, Ksq The idea of this Song it acknowledged, by ita author, to have boonlerlvud from the CJreek Poet Anacreon.My lute it has but one sweet song,And that is love, dear love.No other sounds will e’er belongTo its soft voice, but love.From morn’s first rayTo set of day,Where’er I chance to rove,Its chords will sighNo melodyBut love, dear love.Sometimes ’tis sad,Sometimes 'tis glad,A* tears or smiles may prove jSometimes it tellsOf last farewells,But always still of love!To change its themeFrom passion’s dreamI would, but 'twill not rove,Nor cease to sighThe melodyOf love, dear love.Of knights anrf chivalry I triedTo sing in lofty strain ;My heroes were the young, the fair.My field, a bower or grove,My battle’s noise,The low sweet voiceOf love, dear love !MY SOLDIER LOVE.Ain* by MI54 Stephen*, Miss M. Tree, and Miss Povey. Music arranged by BishopLeeze me on my soldier love,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie !Brave as lion, kind as dove,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie !Should he fall in battle strife,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie!Nane beside shall call me wife,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie !But if glorious from the wars,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie !Proud will I be of his scars,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie !By the sparkles of his e'e,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie'Nane, I ken, he lo’es but me,Bonnie laddie, soldier laddie IVFLY AWAY, PRETTY MOTH.Words and Music by Bayly.away, pretty moth, to the shadeOf the leaf where you slumbered all day ;Be content with the moon and the stars, pretty moth.And make use of your wings while you may.Though yon glittering light may have dazzled you quite,Though the gold of yon lamp may be gay,Many things in this world that look bright, pretty moth,Only dazzle to lead us astray.I hare seen, pretty moth, irtthe world,Some as wild as yourself and as gay,Who, bewitched by the sweet fascination of eyes,Flitted round them by night and by day ;But though dreams of delight may have dazzled them quite,They at last found it dangerous play ;Many things in this world that look bright, pretty moth,Only dazzle to lead us astray.I OAED A WAEFU’ GATE YESTREEN.WMl oritaMStic applause by R. A. Smith. Words by Bums. Music, withaccompaniments for the Piano Forte, by Dr John Clarke.I gaed a waefu’ gate yestreen,A gate, I fear, I’ll dearly rue ;I gat my death free twa sweet een,Twa lovely een o’ bonnie blue.’Twa* not her golden ringlets bright,Her lips like roses, wat wi* dew,Her heaving bosom, lily-white.It was her een sae bonnie blue.She talked, she smiled, my heart she wiled,She charmed my soul, I wistna how ;And aye the stound, the deadly wound,Cam frae her een sae bonnie blue.But spare to speak, and spare to speed,She’ll aiblins listen to my vow ;Should she refuse, I'll lay my deadTo her twa een sae bonnie blue,18WITH HELMET ON HIS BROW.Music,—“ Le Pctte de Tambour."With helmet on his brow, and sabre on his thigh,The soldier mounts bis gallant steed, to eonquer or t(j.<l(eHis plume like a pennon streams on the wanton summelMRivJ, oat dlivr JqsJooo &8L Jfn the path of glory still that white plume sbalt thou find!■ tJ ' j Then let the trumpet’s blast - igeodTTo the brazen drum reply, [j rfpuodT.. . “ A soldier must with honour livew,'; ymsMOr at once with honour die !”O ! bright as his own good sword, a soldier’s fame mustAnd pure as the plume that floats above his helm so whiteand free!No fear in his heart must dwell, but the dread that shamemay throw, • odj IntiOne spot on that blade so bright, one stain On that plumedi m v<rf.,W0'*!£i ni doui I la?) biiow sid) ni ejuiid) rntMThen let the tnimpet’s blast, &c.THE WINDS WHISTLE COLD.• -••v. • < • itiO •A Gle® for Three Voices, from the Musical Play of Guy Manncring."1’he Words by D. Terry, Ksq. i !u- Music l»y Pishf^iThe winds whistle cold and the stars glimmer red,The flocks are in fold and the cattle itftlied.The winds, &c.When the hoar frost was chill upon mqorland and hill,And was fringing the forest bough,Our fathers would trow! the bonoie brown bowl.And so will we do now, jolly hearts !And so will we do now.Gaffer Winter may seize upon milk in the pail;’Twill be long ere he freeze the bold brandy and ale.For our fathers so bold they laughed at the cold,When Boreas was bending his brow ;or they quaffed mighty ale, and they told a blithe tale.And so will we do now, jolly hearts 1And so will we do now19148 4Tsm) . A SCOTS SANG,Written by the Ettrick Shepherd, for the Edinburgh Literary Journal. Musiccomposed by a Gentleman of Glasgow. Sung by Mr Mackay.I ha’e lost my love, an’ I dinna ken bow,I ha’e lost my love, an' I careila;For laith will I be just to lie ddwn an’ dee,And to sit down and greet wad be bairnlyut a sereed o’ ilbnature I canna weel help,At having been guidit unfairly ;Art*weel wad I like to gi’e women a skelp,An’ yerk their sweet haffets fu’ yarely.O ! plague on the limmers, sae sly an’ demure,As pawkie as de’ils wi’ their smilingyAs fickle as winter,1 in sunshine and shower,The hearts of a’ mankind beguiling;As sour as December, as soothing as May,To suit their ain ends never doubt them ;Their ill fau’ts I couldna tell pwer in a day,But their beauty’s the warst thing about themAy, that’s what sets up the hale warld in a lowe—Makes kingdoms to rise an’ expire ;Man’s might is nae mair than a tlaughten o’ tow,Opposed to a bleezc o’ reid fire !’Twas woman at first made creation to bend,And of nature’s prime lord made the pillow IAn’ "tis her that will bring this ill warld to an end-An’ that will be seen an' heard tell o’!THE MOON ON THE OCEAN.The moon on the ocean was dimmed by a ripple,Affording a chequered light,The gay jolly tars passed the word for the tippleAnd the toast, for ’twas Saturday night.Some sweetheart or wife,He loved as his life,Each drank, and wished he cor. 1 hail her;But the standing toastThat pleased the most,Was, “ The wind that blows, the ship that goes,And the lass that loves a sailor.”Some drank the King, some his brave ships,And some the constitution ;Some, may the French, and all such rips,Yield to British resolution ;That fate might blessSome Poll or Bess,And that they soon might hail her ;But the standing, &c.Some drank the Prince, and some our land,This glorious land of freedom ;Some that our tars may never wantHeroes brave to lead ’em ;That she who’s inDistress may findSuch friends who ne'er will fail her;But the standing, &c.NOW HOPK, NOW FEAR,A Duet. Music composed by Draham.Now hope, now fear, my bosom rending,Alternate bid each other cease ;Soon shall death, my terrors ending,Calm each transient thought to peace.Hark ! a murmuring sound, repeatingEvery stifled sigh, I hear !What can set this bosom beating ?Alas ! ’tis mingled hope and fear.Now they cease ! this way retiring,And all is awful silence round.Ah! sure those notes, dear maid, were thineThe echoing sounds alone were mine.’Tis her voice that meets my ear:—Say, where art thou, whose voice I hear ’Oh ! quickly speak,—no longer roam,—To give thee liberty I come.Soft love, 'tis I; relief is near,—Where art thou now ? I’m here.This way advance, and you ore freeThis way to light and liberty.21. . K .th* kavt and the arm*.Music bj Partj.Though war no more with ruthless haiutSpreads gloom and terror round,Be not forgot the gallant bandThat Albion’s glory crowned;And while the glass you gaily pass,Where mirth and music charm ye,O, let the toast be England’s boast.The navy and the army !The navy and the army.The army and the navy !O, let, &c.Our sailors on the mountain wave.Our soldiers on the field,With honour fight, humanely save,But never basely yield.Then while the glass you gaily pass,This welcome tribute levy,A bumper toast to Britain’s boast,The army and the navy !The navy and the army,The army and the navy !A jumper, &c.THE SNOW-DROP.Muric bj IfiRhop.The snow-drop, first-born flower of spring.With violets, to his grave I’ll bring,And summer roses I will spread.To deck the turf that binds his head.And o’er his earthy pillowShall wave the weeping willow.Each day I'll sit beside his tomb,To watch the flow'rets as they bloom jThat where the drooping rose appear*,I may revive it with my tears.And o’er his earthy pillowShall wave the weeping willow.22SEE THE MOON O’ER CLOUDLESS JURA.<Vritten by D. Weir, Gicenock. Adapted to the celebntad Air Of“ Rousseau's Dream.''See the moon o’er cloudless JuraShining in the lake below ;See the distant mountain toweringLike a pyramid of snow.Scenes of grandeur—scenes of childhoodsScenes so dear to love and me !Let us roam by bower and wildwood.All is lovelier when with thee.On Leman’s breast the winds are sighing,All is silent in the grove, 'And the flowers with dew-drops glisteningSparkle like the eye of love.Night so calm, so clear, so cloudless ;Blessed night to love and me !Let us roam by bower and fountain,All is lovelier when with thee.’mainiidTami isdT: tjviui nnl miB {finTELL ME, MY HEART.Music by Bishop.Tell me, my heart, why morning primeLooks like the fading eve ?Why the gay lark’s celestial chimeShall tell the soul to grieve ?The heaving bosom seems to say,Ah ! hapless maid, your love’s away.Your love’s away.Tell me, my heart, why summer’s glowA wintery day beguiles ?Why Flora’s beauties seem to blow,And .fading Nature smiles ?Some zephyr whispers in my ear,Ah ! happy maid, your love is nearYour love is near. 1■'Till if . ,•! ia n :•«/wtiKr// ani is. nil arovi Lindabaai oTjsdT33SHE NEVER BLAMED HIM.Foetirr bf T. H. Bavlj. The Music arranged to a Hindoottanee Melodf hfHenry H. Bishop.She never blamed him, never.But received him, when he came,With a welcome kind as ever, ! -:And she tried to look the same ;But vainly she dissembled, .. :For whene’er she tried to smile,A tear, unbidden, trembledIn her blue eye all the while.v( . . , ' ,i[jorn Aienf .vn-v/s vHShe knew that she was dying,And she dreaded not her doom ;She ijever thpught of sighingO’er her beauty’s blighted bloom;She knew her cheek was altered, rAnd sjie knew her eye was dim;Her voice, though, only faltered • i.iA. , . ; 1When she spoke of losing him-. ' - ■ r -, . , i'Ti.d oili eooj; rfittMR .ylinol/’Tis true that he had lured herFrom the isle where she was born, dii - '!’Tis true he had inured her 1 -•To the cold world’s cruel scorn ; •: HOBut yet she never blamed him ‘o it. , m ft-'---For the anguish she liad known,And though she seldom named him,Yet she thought of him alone. A 1 ; r. , . , 9#w cfirrod odTC . She sighed when he caressed her, ' dFor she knew that they must part;she spoke not when he pressed her-To his young and panting heart.— r’ vven od'l, The banners waved around her,And she heard .the bugle’s sound—They passed—and strangers found herCold and lifeless on the ground-8i , * . , void sin no tonoen anwI!VIOSri-LiCONTENTS.A lassie lires by yonder burn,A Scots sang, .Aye wakin’, oh ! .Cease thus to palpitate,Draw the sword, Scotland,Farewell! but whenever you welcome the houFly away, pretty moth,Follow, follow over mountain,Here’s a health, bonnie ScotlancHomage to Charlie, .How blest the maid,I gaed a waefu’ gate yestreen,Isle of beauty, fare-thee-well!John Anderson, my jo, .Love wakes and weeps.Merrily, merrily goes the bark,My lute it has but one sweet songMy soldier love, . .Now hope, now fear,Oft in the stilly night.See the moon o’er cloudless JuraShe never blamed him.Should he upbraid.Tell me, my heart, .The bonnie wee wife, . .The captive Knight, .The fairest flower, - . .The moon on the ocean, .The navy and the army,There’s an isle clasped by waves.The snow-drop, . ,The winds whistle cold, . ,They say my love is dead,With helmet on his brow, ,to thee.tk<it0191311133177311131771061151620rf2323923109151921831181418