TO WHICH IS ADDED, THEOUTWITTED TAX-GATHERER,GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.k OF SCOTLANDTHEjaanaHTA o-xATaaTTim: H.'A-T-n1GHOSTOPMY U N C L E. -I arose early in the morning, and afterbiking a good breakfast, set out from home.A quantity of rain had fallen in the night.It was, however, fair when I commencedly expedition, and I wished it so to remain.The morning was still and beautiful; it wasat the early hour of four; I could not yetdistinguish the sun, though I was sensiblehe had left his ocean bed from the beautifulstreaks of colouring in the eastern sky. Toexpress the softness, mildness, and calmnessof the scenery, at that hour, I cannot findadequate words; those only can conceive itwho have witnessed the scene. I had not[proceeded more than two miles, before a few[drops alarmed me with apprehension of asoaking shower, from a heavy black cloudthat was slowly sailing over my head, andmy fears were soon realized by a very thickdescent that followed, on which I betook my-' t1*'48C1f with uil speeu to a thatched cottage, th.:saw at some distance, for shelter.Ilany years had elapsed since I had watdered about in this spot in careless infancyand the pretty secluded cot to which I wnadvancing, had once been my home,looked around on the hills and dales, ancould easily recognise them as my old atquaintances. ‘ Ha,’ said I, 4 ye change ncyour appearance, ye grow not old in tilcourse of time, the feebleness of age cometnot upon you;—ye still smile in the brightness of summer, and frown in the loweringwinter. For ages ye have reared youtowering crests, and given food to the flockand the herds that have chequered your darlsurface; ye have given a direction to tinmurmuring brook that proceeds from you.till it seeks, far distant, the mighty ocean;and while generation after generation hathpassed away, ye have preserved unvaried thefeatures ye possessed in ages gone—Evenlow, as in years past, my eyes behold thetill sunshine sleeping upon your gentledoping declivities, interrupted only whenhe light cloud of spring, for a moment,casts over them its passing shadow! Mycogitations were suddenly interrupted by thegate at the end of the pasture, which 1 open¬ed. In another moment I was in the porchof the cottage; I lifted the latch, and wentB 5iff. The house ajppesi'ed just the same as fihad lett it ten yeaj* before. The lumitur(was the same, and each piece occupied theijsame position. The old clock stcod tickingin the corner, as it. had done for four-score'years, the oaken settle remained behind thedoor, and my uncle’s antique two armedchair by the fire-side; but I saw no living(creature in the house besides the cat on the'hearthstone. I listened awhile, but couldhear nothing. At this I rather wondered,:as of yore the house was seldom, scarcelyever, totally deserted. I then went forwardinto the spence, or country parlour, where Ifound several neighbour cousins and the ser¬vants, all standing in deep silence aroundthe bed of my dying uncle.On entering, all eyes turned upon me;I was a stranger to most of them; therewere, however, one or two who rememberedme. I advanced to the bed-side, ■ and thecountenance of my uncle for a momentbrightened up at my approach, but soonsubsided again into a cold tranquil indifier-ence. It was plain that death was rapidlyapproaching. He had been speecldessseveral hours; consequently we could holdno conversation. He, however, put out hishand, which I grasped with an affection re¬fer ever. In my younger days * —doubled by the prospect of soonwith him, and he having- no children oi liisiLown, was then remarkably fond of me;1]subsequently that aftection was strengthened 11between us, and although.circmnstances had |cast my lot in another country, yet we had!kept up a friendly and affectionate inter-]course. Some time previous to his indisposi- ]tion, I had again removed to within thirty j|miles of his residence, which was the placefrom whence I set out on this sorrowfulvisit.My uncle was a man of sound judgment,keen observation, and cheerful social disposi¬tion, joined to a thorough knowledge ofmankind; lie possessed a good portion ofeccentricity and humour. He loved a cheer¬ful glass; he was kind to his servants, anddependants, and though rather of a frugaland saving disposition, yet he was charitableto his poor neighbours. In his freindshipshe was rather capricious, but firm in hisattachment to the kirk and goverment of hiscountry. He was apt to be a little passion¬ate and hasty in his temper; but his resent¬ment was seldom of long duration. He waswell beloved by those among whom he dwelt,and might be pronounced a good neighbour,and an excellent subject. By a long courseof industry in his profession, he had amasseda pretty good property, the knowledge ofwhich had drawn around him a host of needy''relations, who besieged him with flattery and[(professions, but those attentions were chiefly'l drawn forth by their hopes of inheriting thetold man’s property. How he had willed it> was not known. He was a man of prudence,and seldom blabbed out his private affairs.On my arrival, I found all the friendsalwut him remarkably attentive and duteousin their behaviour, though it was evident! that a good deal of the affection was assum¬ed. Shortly after, he fell into a kind of adose, and all left the room save an attendantor two. Peggy, the servant who had livedwith my uncle fourteen years, now insistedon my taking some refreshment. But Iwas too much agitated to feel any thing likepleasure in my repast, and what I ate wasmore to please the faithful old domestic, thanfrom any inclination of my own. Whenmy slight meal was over, I got up and wentto the window in a serious and reflectingmood. The afternoon was far advanced,and the scenery without was wrapped intranquillity. I was soon summoned frommy station to the parlour. My uncle hadsomewhat revived, and his speech had return¬ed. He told us death was making rapidadvances, and that we might soon expectthe moment of his dissolution. He informedus where we should find his will, and gave ussome excellent advice on our future conduct.Some things he requested us to perfornilwhich I thought were a little odd. H iwished us to read his will in the room wherhe was, immediately after he had expired*He desired that he might not be laid out, a:it is commonly called, until at least twelv<hours after his departure; that his large twcarmed oaken chair might be placed in ahorder and solemnity at the head of the tableevery meal, and that it should remain unoc¬cupied till after his funeral. He also wishedto be interred in a very deep grave. Allthese requests we promised faithfully to ob¬serve, when, after taking an aftectionatefarewell of each, he quietly resigned himselfto his pillow; his breathing became moreand more faint, till at last we could perceiveit no more.During these transactions my mind wasin a state I cannot well describe: mythoughts were all confusion, while at thesame time I struggled to be calm and com-posed. Poignant as were my feelings, Igazed on my dying relative with a sort ofapathy and grief, and at the moment whennature was yielding up the contest I couldnot shed a tear. In a short time all quittedthe appartment, and I was left alone. Thebranches cf the huge elm trees, with theirthickening foliage, partially screening thewindow, made it, under such circumstances.9 ' ?lawfully gloomy and tranquil. I took several.turns about the room, and with a soft stepI approached the bed, gazed a moment,turned away, and then going up to thewindow, strove to divert my thoughts bylooking at the surrounding landscape. Twil-light was descending, and the sober hues ofevening gradually enveloped the lofty hills.‘ No sound struck my ear, except the faintand low murmers of the brook, which brawl¬ed down the valley at the bottom of theFlinty Knowe—the shout, softened by dis¬tance, of the peasant committing his herds tothe pasture—and now and then the solitarybarking of a shepherd’s dog- among the echcing dales, attendant on his master lookingout his charge for the night.I had not stood at the casement manyminutes when my cousins, all talking in arude, noisy, and indecorous manner, cameinto the room with the will, which it seemsthey had departed in search of the momentthe testator had expired. I was a good dealshocked at the frivolity they manifested,and could not help reproving them, thoughin a mild and gentle manner, for the littlerespect they paid to the deceased. £ Wh}ye ken,’ said one, £ he tauld us to read thewill amaist as soon as he died.’ i Ay,’ criedanother, i and sae in conformity wi’ his com¬mand, we went straight up the stairs andrummaged o’er his auld kist, til] we founit’ ‘ Mind your ain concerns, gudemanand we U mind ours,’ rejoined a third, rathegrunly; so that my well meant admonitionhad no better effect than to cause me to bmore disliked by the party; for I could perceive before this that they looked on me ir;tlie light of an unwelcome intruder.The will was now read, to which all paidthe greatest attention. A mute anxiety anddeep interest sat on every countenance: theiraspects was, however, instantly changed intothose of intense disappointment and vex¬ation, on hearing that my uncle had madea stranger, whom none of us knew, the heirof all his property, real and personal. Formy part, this circumstance did not affect mein the least. I had not had any expectationof inheriting the smallest portion; thereforecould not feel disappointed. But with theothers it was different; they had clung tohim like so many leeches, or like the ivy tothe old ruin, and with about as much affec¬tion as the two before-mentioned things havefor the objects to which they so closely ad¬here. A most appalling and disgustingscene now took place among the disappoint¬ed legacy hunters. They abused the oldman in the most shocking terms: they tax¬ed him with injustice and villany, and evenproceeded to call down imprecations upon his^lifeless corse. I shuddered at the conduct oti the unprincipled villains; I trembled at the:impiety of men who couldj at a time theimost solemn and impressive to a human be-ling1, act in a manner sufficient to call downupon them immediate and divine vengeance.! I was chilled with horror. I almost expected every moment to see the lifeless corse ofmy uncle start from the bed, on which it lay,to take vengeance on the audacious wretches.Once, indeed, I actually thought I saw hislips quiver with rage—his eyebrows knittogether—and all the muscles of his coun¬tenance contract into a dreadful frown. Ishuddered at the sight, and withdrew mygaze.At length they went into the kitchen, andI was once more left alone in the chamber ofdeath. I went to the bed-side, and tbe sceneI had just witnessed operated so forcibly onmy feelings, that I burst into tears, anduttered aloud my lamentations over my life¬less relative. When this ebullition hadsomewhat subsided, I began to reflect a littlewhere I was, and a sort of timidity camecreeping over me. There is an undefinableapprehension which we feel while we are incompany with the dead. We imagine, inspite of the efforts of reason, that tbe departedspirit is hovering near its former tenement.It being now quite dark, and having these12feelings in a strong degree, it is no woncientthat 1 rather preferred the company of thejiwretches in the kitchen, than to remain longflwhere I was.I accordingly proceeded thither, where Ifound them all carousing round a large table,on which were placed the fragments of thedinner, and plenty of liquor. I remindedthem of our promise to place my uncle’s oldtwo armed chair at the head of the table, ashe had requested, which they had neglectedto do, and which they now strenuouslyopposed my doing. I was, however, reso¬lutely determined to have it done, and atlength succeeded. I then retired to the fire¬side, where I sat, without taking any partin the conversation, or in any thing thatpassed during the whole evening. 1 shallpass over the several succeeding hours, thewhole of which they sat drinking, till theywere all in a greater or less degree intoxi¬cated, and generally brawling, wrangling,and swearing in a loud and boisterousmanner. The night became stormy as itadvanced. The wind arose, and at intervalsmoaned, sighed, and whistled shrilly with¬out, roared in the wide chimney, and as itfuriously bent the trees in which the housewas embosomed, made a sound similar to thedashing of the waves on the shore of theocean. The rain fell in torrents, and the13large drops pattered against the window withia ceaseless and melancholy cadence.It was now getting nigh the ‘ witching[time of night/and I saw no signs of therevellers quitting the table. On the con¬trary, they grew more loud and boisterous.In obedience to their imperious commands,jyet evidently with the greatest reluctance,Peggy had kept replenishing the exhaustedvessels with more liquor, and their demandsincreased in proportion to the reluctance withwhich they were satisfied. At length, how¬ever, on receiving an intimation from ms(that I would interpose, she absolutely refusedto draw any more liquor for them, tellingithem they had plenty, and that it was timeI to retire to bed. The scene that now ensuedwas such as is impossible for me to describe;maddened and inflamed with rage at beingthus refused, the wretches began to throwthe furniture up and down the house, breakdie glasses and jugs, and to abuse the ser¬vant, from whom they attempted to wresthe key of the cellar, yelling out at the same;ime the most horrid oaths and impreca-:dons.I The table was shortly overset, and theights put out in the scuffle, and in a fewmoments we should, in all probability, havelad blood shed, as I felt myself roused to antch of fury, and was advancing with the14large heavy headed fire-poker to the assist¬ance of the servant, who was loudly shriek¬ing for help: just then the old clock strucktwelve rapid strokes, and the bell had notceased to vibrate, when we heard three heavyknocks, as if given by a mallet upon thewall, which seperated the kitchen from theparlour where my uncle lay. There appear¬ed to be something supernatural in this.The whole house seemed to shake to its verjfoundation. A deep silence ensued. I stoocstill. The wretches instantly became sober.We all gazed earnestly and wildly at the placefrom whence the noise proceeded. Scarcehad we recovered from the shock, when w«were again thunderstruck with a noise in tlujparlour; it was unlike any sound that I hatever heard before. It seemed as if all th>furniture in the room was violently crashettogether, mingled with the noise of fire-armsShrieks and exclamations hurst from all.The windows shook and every door of thhabitation gave a momentary jar. I trembled with awe. I felt every hair of my heatbristling' upwards—my knees smote againseach other—a deathly paleness sat on evercountenance, and all eyes were fixed in aintense gaze on the door, at the upper pa)of the kitchen, which led to the staircasebuttery, and parlour. W hen, to completlthe horror of the scene, the door burst wiq15open-dashed against the wall, and in, glid¬ing at a slow pace, came a dreadful appari¬tion. Its countenance was that of death.It seemed to have been long the inhabitantof that dark and narrow house—the grave;the worms had revelled upon its eyes, andi left nothing but the orbless sockets. The! rest of the skeleton was enveloped in a long:and white sheet. The horrid spectre ad¬vanced into the middle of the room. I in¬voluntarily shrunk back—the heavy weapon! dropped from my hand and rang loudly onthe stone floor; overcome with terror, I sanklinto a chair. A cold sweat broke from myiforehead, and I had well nigh fainted on its.ifirst appearance; the others had tumbled one■ over the other, in the greatest horror andxonfusion, and now lay as if dead in alldirections.| The spectre gazed wildly round for a;moment—at the clock—at the fire—andjmen turned its eyeless sockets upon eachIndividual, motioning at the same time with•its long arm, and pointing to the outer door,Seemingly directing to an outlet for anIscape, and wishing for their exit. Theywere not long in obeying this intimation,hut severally crawled away on their handsand knees, with all the speed they couldjjiossibly make; none of them daring to standupright. The spectre all the while wasI...16standing1 in the middle of the floor, eyeing, Jor rather appearing to eye them, throughthe void sockets, where eyes had onceglistened, as they retreated one by one in thegreatest fear and trepidation. When P eggyand I offered to decamp along with the rest,the spectre motioned us to remain where wewere, and we durst not for our lives disobey.When the last of the crew was making hisexit, and had crawled nearly to the door, thespectre, which had hitherto stood motionless,except waving its arm and slowly turningits eyeless countenance on the wretches asthey crept successively out of the door,bounded with the rapidity of lightning afterthe terrified wretch. But swift as the flightof spirits are, in this case that of the mortalwas swifter: the fellow gave a thrillingscream—made a convulsive spring1—his jheels struck violently against the lintel of the |door in his course, and he vanished from my jsight and the spectre after him. ‘ Gude jdefend us,’ said Peggy. For my part, ill !as I was frightened, 1 could scarce forbear ;laughing outright at the last incident socomic and farcical.Half a minute had not elapsed, when Iheard a step, and in another instant (I stiffkept my eyes on the door) in came the very _form of my uncle, muttering, 4 V illains! .Rascals ! Hypocrites ! ’ He fastened the door17 - fCafter him, shut out his nephews and thespectre, and then came towards the fire. Atthis I was more amazed than ever. He,however, gave me to understand that he wasalive and well, and that all I had seen trans¬acted in the afternoon and evening, wasnothing but a stratagem he had made use ofto try the sincerity of his relations, and if hefound them, as he conjectured, false in theirprofessions, to get rid of them. The schemeanswered nobly, and, it must be confessed,the stratagem was well planned and exceed¬ingly well executed.My uncle concluded his relation withassuring me, that, excepting a good legacyfor his faithful servant Peggy, I shouldinherit all that he possessed, as some littleacknowledgement for the fright he hadcaused me; and as for the wretches he hadexpelled from his house, in so singular amanner, they should never more cross thethreshold of his door. We all three nowsat down to a little supper, of which myuncle stood in great need, and after takinga cheerful glass retired to bed.Notwithstanding the fatigue of my jour¬ney, and sitting up so late, my sleep wasfar from being sound and refreshing. Iwas disturbed with fearful dreams the wholenight. At length the cocks began to crow—the clouds of the eastern sky to break18assunder, and the morning to dawn. Whenit was tolerably light I started up, resolvedon a stroll over the meadows. Before goingout, however, I went into the parlour, whereI found every thing in the utmost confusion.Chairs, tables, walking-sticks, and logs oiwood, lay all over the door, and every thingupset or in a wrong position. I then pro¬ceeded to the outer door, which I opened,but started back in horror, on perceiving shuman skull lying on a sheet at my righthand, just without the door. Recoveringfrom my fright, I gathered it up, and couldnot restrain my. laughter, when I discoveredit to be nothing more than a mask, repre¬senting a death’s head. It seems while wcwere all wrangling the night before, myuncle had stepped out of bed—dressed him¬self—-piled all the furniture, logs of wood |and timber, he could in the apartment, in c jheap, crowning the pyramid with a dozen oimore walking-sticks, which had lain timmout of mind on the top of an old cupboard—then gone up stairs and put on the horridmask—brought down a pistol, and envelopedhimself from his feet to his chin, in a clearwhite sheet; after alarming us, just as tindock struck the awful hour of twelve, b)striking three heavy blows against tinwall with a huge log of wood, he contrive< ito tumble down the whole mass of furnitun19at once—fired his pistol at the same moment,and then burst in upon us in the mannerdescribed.I now went out. As I was crossing- thei yard, I discovered several drops of blood ona stone, which I could no way account for,but by supposing1 some of my good cousinshad received, in their retreat, a fall; and, alittle further, I discovered a pair of shoes.I’A receptacle for the filth of the byre, inI another part of the yard, bore evident marks!of some one having had therein a severe^struggle.Indeed the adventures of the flying heroes•bad been various and woful; one of them,jibe at whom the spectre had made such aisudden bound, as I afterwards ascertained,actually ran seven miles without stopping,and with his shrieks, supposing the grimc monster close at his heels, almost raised thewhole country. I now proceeded onwardsj*ver the fields, listening to the warblingprk ‘ springing blithely up to greet themirpling east’ The air was fresh andliure, and, in the beauties of nature, Ihwhile forgot the events of the precedingWening. With hasty steps I roved overjhe faintly recollected scenes, where I hadi childhood spent some of my happiestHours, until weary 'with my rambles I re-irned to breakfast.20 .,.v.OUTWITTING A TAX-GATHERER.—*—Some writers have stated the number oiislands in Strangford Lough to be upwards'of two hundred, but it has been ascertainedthat there are not more than fifty-four. Someare inhabited; on others cattle of variouskinds are kept by the proprietors of thegrounds on the opposite shore. Upon oneof them there is a very extensive rabbit-warren. The individual who resides on thisisland had for many years derived a veryconsiderable income from the sale of therabbit skins, and although he had erected <very good house, he never once dreamed opaying any thing in the shape of excise o?taxes. At length, however, a tax-gatherer,who had paid a visit to the houses on theneighbouring* shore, beheld with anxiousgaze the goodly edifice which presented it¬self upon the island, and determined uporvisiting it in the name of his Majesty. Tinproprietor of the place, having been in tinhabit of receiving* visits from persons wh<:ame to purchase his skins, and supposingthe taxman to be one of them, sent off a boato fetch him to the island. On reaching tinplace, the man of taxes began to mak«various enquires as to the time the house hac , - ■21! been erected, tlie number of windows,I hearths, &c., it contained: and, having; gained the desired information, he immedi-ii ately demanded, on behalf of his Majesty,i a considerable sum, as the amount of taxes| and arrears due upon the place. In vainI the poor man protested against the proceed-i 1 ing', as an imposition, in vain he contended,t that the demand, never having been madeI before, he had no right to pay it then. Thei» stranger was inexorable, and nothing w ould• satisfy him but the payment of the moneyI down, or, in default thereof, he threatened! to return direct, with a party of the army,: and lead, drive, and carry away all that he1 could find upon the island. At length, fear-1 ing such a catastrophe, and finding everyk effort to soften the hard heart of the excise-i man completely fruitless, the poor man paid1 down the amount demanded, and got aI regular acknowledgement for the same; andI the officer, having put the money in his| pocket, haughtily desired that he might he| put ashore. £ No, no,’ said the old man;[ i although his Majesty may compel me to| pay taxes, he cannot compel me to keep aI boat to row you, and the likes of you, backand fonvard.’ After many threats and; entreaties, the islander at last consented, as1 lie had brought his visitor over, to give himj ‘ a hit of a row’ back again ; and both get-22ting into the boat, along with a young lad,son to the proprietor, they pulled for sometime in the direction of shore. When aboutmidway, however, the islander, quietly lay-.ing down his oar, informed the officer, thatalthough he had promised to give him 4 abit of a row,’ h;, had never any intention oltaking him the entire way, and that he mustnow do tho best he could, as he was himseliobliged to retur to the island, or that theywould land him on Phaddy Lhug, (a largerock, which was visible at low water, butwas many feet beneath the surface at fulltide,) from which, if he shouted loud enough,perhaps some of his friends on the shoremight hear him, and send a boat to conveyhim the remainder of the distance. On the jother protesting against such conduct, andinsisting that they should continue theirlabour, and take him ashore—the old man,pulling his oar into the boat, and desiringhis son to do the same, very drily observed,that if the gentleman did not wish to qukthe boat, they would not insist upon his doing iso, as they ‘ could swim like two water dogs,and thus easily regain the island; but thatif he chose to pay him for it, he would ®willingly land him at any place he wished, tFinding himself outwitted by the islanders, |the officer deemed it the more advisable wav ||to accede to the terms proposed—when, to his23istonishment, he found that the demand waslothing1 less than the entire amount he had■eceived for the taxes, together with a receiptor those of the following year, and a specialngagement, that he would never again re-urn to that island to demand taxes on excise,lard as the terms were, he was at lengthcompelled to accede to them, rather thanlake on a tide which, at the time, was run-king at the rate of nine miles an hour, theAlternative of being left to drift out to sea in:n open boat, with scarcely a hope of reliefirom any quarter. It is scarcely necessary0 observe, that having1 paid back the money,;.nd giving the required receipt, the crest-1 Mlen taxman was put safely ashore, anditever again visited the island, or trustedriself in company with so tricky a customerthe old dealer in rabbit skins.SCARLET DISCOVERED.. A Highlander entered a haberdasher’s shopi Perth, and asked for a piece of scarletdoth to make him a waistcoat. The rusticoanner of the Gael set some young women!ho were at the counter a-giggling; andle shopman, willing to afford them sport,an to play off his small wit upon the24stranger. 11 So, goodman, ye want a pieceof scarlet? Would you know scarlet if yousaw it?” “I tink I would,” replied themountaineer. The shopman threw down apiece of blue cloth: u Is that scarlet?^'<{ Hout no, no ! that no he it.” A piece otgreen cloth was produced; the same questionjwas repeated, and received a similar answer Jto the great amusement of the querist anahis female friends, who were at no pains tenconceal their mirth. The Highlander toohnrevenge in his own way: He put his noseto the cloth, and affected .to judge of th(colour by the smell. The shopman, at Iffrequest, did the same; but the instant hebent his nose towards the counter, theHighlander seized him by the ears, ancmade his nasal protuberance come in sue!violent contact with the boards, that the bloocjjsprung from it. “ Tat,” said the High¬lander, u is ta colour o’ scarlet tae ye noo,lad;” and he walked away.