A * *T ,A L , E<fctZvLQ_j o-n. /Z4rt l4rrK,c>Y 4/A^ o 1 y0<-e ^THREE BONNETS.I N F O U R CANTOS.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,M D C C X C V.THE PERSONS.\Duniwhistle, .CFather to Joukum,ftle, and BawfyJoukum, in love with Rofie.Bristle, a Man of Refolution.Bawsy, a weaker Brother.Bard, a Narrator.Beef, Tarter to Rofie.Ghaist, the Ghojl of DuniwhiftleRosie, an Heirefs.A TALE•ijs* ^‘iff’4^ vr“ ^ ^AitT ALEO FTHREE BONNETS.CANTO. I.BARD.WHEN men of mettle thought it nonfenfeTo heed that cleping thing ca’d confcience,And by free-thinking had the knack.Of jeering ilka word it fpake ;And, as a learned author fpeaks,Employ’d it like a pair of breeks,To hide their lewd and nafty fluices,Whilk eith flipt down, for baith thefe ufes,Then Duniwhijlle, worn with years.And gawn the gate of his forbears.Commanded his three fons to come,And wait upon him in his room :Bade Brijlle fteek the door : and fyne,He thus began Duniwhijile. Dear bairns of mine,I quickly maun fubmit to fate,Anddeave you three a good eftata.WhichWhich has been honourably won,And handed down frae fire to Ion,But clagg or claim for ages paft:Now that ye mayna prove the laft.4 A T A L E O FHere’s three permifiion Bonnets for ye.Which our Grand Gutchers wore before ye,And if ye’d hae nae man betray ye,Let naething ever wile them frae ye;But keep the Bonnets on your heads.And hands frae figning foolifh deeds,And ye fliall never want fic things,Shall gar ye be made of by kings :But, if ye ever with them part,Fou fair ye’ll for your folly fmart :Bare-headed then ye’ll look like fnools,And dwindle down to filly tools,Haud up your hands now fwear and fay,As ye lhall anfwer on a day, Ye’ll faithfully obferve my will,And a’ its premifies fulfil.Briftle. My w'orthy father, I final! drive,To keep your name and fame alive,And never fhaw a faul that’s daftard,To gar fouk tak me for a baftard :If e’er by me ye’re difobey’d.May witches nightly on me*ride.Joukum. Whae’er fnall dare, by force or guile,This Bonnet aff my head to wile,For fic a bauld attempt lhall rue,And ken I was begot by you,Fife, may I like a gypfie wander.Or for my daily bread turn pander.Canto I. THREE BONNETS.Bawfy. May I be jy’b’d by great and fma’,And kytch’d like ony tennis ba’,Be the difgrace of a’ my kin,If e’er I with my bonnet twin.Bard. Now foon as each had gi’n his aith,The auld man yielded up his breath,Was row’d in linen, white as fnavv.And to his fathers borne awa’.But fcarcely he in modls was rotten,| Before his teft’ment was forgotten,As ye fhall hear frae future ibnnet,E How Joukum linder’d wi’ his Bonnet,j And bought frae fenfelefs Billy Bawfy,, His, to propine a giglet lady,i While worthy Bridle, not fae doner’d,Preferves his Bonnet, and is honour’d.Thus Cara6tacus did behave,i Tho’ by the fate of war a Have ;i' His body only, for his mind,jl No Roman power could break or bind.With Bonnet on he bauldly fpake,[ His greatnefs gart his fetters crack.The vidtor did his friendfhip claim,i And fent him with new glories hame.But leave we Birfs and dmile,| And to our tale with ardour dee.I Beyond the hi Us where lang tho billies.Had bred up queys, and kids, and fillies,And foughten many a bloody battle,With thieves that came to lift their cattle jThere liv’d a lafs kept rary-drows,njAnd fidlers ay about her houfe.Wha6 ATALEOFWha at her table fed and ranted,With the ftout ale fhe never wanted.She was a winfome wench and waly,And could put on her flaiths fu* brawly.Ramble to iika market-town,And drink and fight like a dragoon :Juft fic like her wha far aff wander’d,To get herfel weel Alexander’d.Rofc had a word of meikle filler,Whilk brought a hantle o’ wooers till her.Amang the reft young mafter Jouk,She conquer’d ae day wi’ a look :Frae that time forth he ne’er could ftayAt hame to mind his com or hay,But grew a beau, and did adorn,Himfelf with fifty bows of corn,Forby what he took on, to riggHim out with linen, ftioon and wig.Snuff-boxes, fword-knots, canes and wafhes,And fweeties to beftow on laffes,Cou’d neweft aiths genteelly fwear.And had a courfe of flaws perquire:He drank and danc’d, and figh’d to move.Fair Rofie to-accept his love.After dumb figns he thus began,And fpake his mind to’ef like a man.Joukion. O take me, Rofie, to your arms.And let me revel o’er your charmsIf ye fay na, 1 needa care.For rapes or tethers made of hair.Pen-knives or pools I winna need.That minute ye fay na, I’m dead,Canto I. THREE BONNETS. 70 let me lie within your breaft :And at your dainty table feaft;Well do I like your gowd to finger.And fit to hear your Singer ;While on this fun fide o’ the brae.Belongs to you, my limbs I’ll lay.Rofie, I own, fweet fir, ye woo me frankly.But a’ your courtfhip fars fae ranklyOf felfifh intereft, that I’m fleed,My perfon leaft employs your head.Joukum'Nha.t a diftin&ion’s this you’re makingWhen your poor lover’s heart is breaking ■„With little logic I can (hew,That every thing you have is you :Befides the beauties of your perfon, ^Thefe beds of flowers you fet your a - on,Your claiths, your lands, and lying pelf.Are every ane your very felf.And add frefh luftre to thofe graces,With which adorn’d your faul and face is,Rofie. Ye feem to have a loving flameFor me, and hate your native hame •,That gars me ergh to truft you meikle.For fear ye fhou’d prove faufe and fickle.Joukum. In troth my rugged billy Briflie,About his gentry makes fic fiftle,That, if a body contradift him,He’s ready with a durk to flick him ;| That wearies me of hame, I vow,1 And fain would live and die with you.Bard. Obferving Jouk a wee tate tipfy.Smirking reply’d the pauky gipfy.R.cf.i8A TALE. O FRofie. I wad be very wae to fee,My lover tak the pet and die;Wherefore I am inclin’d to eafe ye.And do what in me lies to pleafe ye:Rut firft, ere we conclude the padtion.You mufl: perform fome gallant adtion.To prove the truth of what you’ve faid,Fife I, for you, fhall die a maid.Joukum. My deardb jewel, gie’t a name.That I may win both you and fame:Shall I gae fight with foreft bulls,Or cleave down troops with thicker fkulls ?Or fhall I douk the deepeft fea,And coral pou for beads to thee ?Penty the Pope upon the nofe,Or p— upon a hundred beaus ?Rqfie. In troth, dear lad, I wad be laith.To rifk your life, or do you fkaith ;Only employ your canny fkill,To gain and rive your Father’s wilf,With, the confent of Birfs and Bawfy,And I fhall in my bofom hawfe ye.Soon as the fatal Bonnets three,Are ta’en frae them and gi’en to me.‘Joukum. Which to preferve I gied my aithiBut now the caufe is life and death,J muft, or with the Bonnet part,Or twin with you and break my heart:Sae, tho’ the aith we took was awfu’,To keep it now appears unlawfu’.Then, love. I’ll anfwer your demands.And fly to fetch them to your hands.BardGCanto II. T H R £ E BO N N E T S.Bard. The famous jilt of Paleftine,Thus drew the hooks o’er Samfon’s een.And gart him tell where lay his ftrength,Of which Ihe twin’d him at the length, •Then gied him up in chains to rave,And labour like a galley have :But Rofie, mind, when growing hair,His lofs of pith ’gan to repair,He made of thoufands an example.By crulhing them beneath their temple.v*CANTO II.Bardf B'^He fupper fowin-cogs and bannocks,| Stood cooling on the foies of winuocks.And, cracking at the weftlin gavels,The wives fat becking of their navels,When Jouk his brither Bridle found.Fetching his ev’ning wauk aroundA fcore of ploughmen of his ain.Who blythly whittled on the plain.Jouk three times congee’d. Bridle anes.Then dioolt his hand, and thus begins.Bri/ile. Wow, brither Jouk, where hae yeI fqarce can trow my looking een, (been ?Y e’re grown fae braw: now weirds defend me.Gin that I had nae maid midtend ye,And where gat ye that braw blue dringing,That’s at your houghs and {boulders hinging ?Ye10 A T A L E O FYc look as fpruih as one that’s wooing,I fei ly lad, what ye’ve been doing.Joukwi. My very much refpe&ed brither,Should we hide ought frae ane anither.And not, when warm’d with the Tame blood,Confult ilk ane anither’s good;A^id be it kend t’ye, my defign,Will profit prove to me and mine.Brifik. And brither, troth it much commendsYour virtue, thus to love your friends,It makes me blyth, for aft I faid.Ye were a clever mettl’d lad.Joukum. And fae, I hope, will ever prove,If ye befriend me in my love :For Rofie, bonny, rich and gay.And fweet as flowers in June or May,Her gear I’ll get, her fweets I’ll rifle.If ye’ll but yield me up a trifle.Promife to do’t, and ye’fe be free.With ony thing pertains to me.Brifile. I lang to anfwer your demand,And never fhall for trifles fiand.Joukum. Then Ihe defires, as a propine,Thefe Bonnets, Bawfy’s, yours and mine;And well I wat that’s nae great matter,If I fae eafily can get her.Brijlle. Ha, ha ! ye Judas, are ye there ?The D— then nor flhe ne’er get mair.Is that the trifle that ye fpoke of?Wha think ye, fir, ye mak a mock of ?Ye filly manfworn fcant of grace,Swith let me never fee your face.SeekCanto II. THREE BONNETS. irSeek my auld Bonnet aff my head!Faith that’s a bonny ane indeed !Require a thing I’ll part with never;She’s get as foon a lap o’ my liver,Vile whore and jade, the woody hang her.Bard. Thus faid, he faid nae mair for anger,But curs’d and ban’d, and was nae farFrae treading Jouk amang the glar.While Jouk, with language glib as oolie.Right pawkily kept aff a toolie,Well malked v/ith awedder’s Ikin,Although he was a tod within.He hum’d and ha’d, and with a cant,Held forth, as he had been a faint,And quoted texts to prove we’d better,Part with a fma’ thing for a greater.Joukum. Ah! brither, may the furies rack me,If I mean’d ill, but ye miftak me;But gin your Bonnet’s fic a jewel,Pray gie’t or keep it, fir, as you will.Since your auld fafhion’d fancy rather.Inclines till’t than a hat and feather jBut I’ll go try my brither Bawfy,Poor man, he’s nae fae daft and faucy.With empty pride to crook his mou.And hinder his ain good like you ;If he and I agree, ne’er doubt ye,We’ll mak the bargain up without ye;Syne your braw Bonnet and your noddleWill hardly baith be worth a bodlc.Bard. At this bauld Briftle’s colour chang’d.Fie fwore on Rofe to be reveng’d,For12 ATALEOFFor he began now to be fleed,She’d wile the honours frae his head,Syne with a ftern and canker’d look,He thus reprov’d his brother Jouk.Brijlle. Thou vile difgrace of cur forbears,Wha lang with valiant dint of weirs,Maintain’d their rights ’gainfc a’ intrufionsOf our auld faes the Rofycrucians,Doll: thou defign at laft to catchUs in a girn, with this bafe match.And, for the hauding up thy pride,.Upon thy brithers’ riggins ride :I’ll fee you bang’d, and her the gither,As high as Haman in a tether,Ere I with my ain Bonnet quat,For any borrow’d beaver hat,Whilk I, as Rofie takes the fikes,Maun wear or no juft as (he likes :Then let me hear nae mair about her,For if ye dare again to mutter,Sic vile propofals, in my hearing.Ye need na truft to my forbearing ;Tor foon my beard will tak a low,And I fhall crack your crazy pow.Bard. This faid, brave Briftle faid nae mair,But cock’d his Bonnet with an air,Wheel’d round with gloomy brows and muddy,And left his brither in a ftudy.CANTOCanto III. THREE BONNETS. 13CANTO III.iforJ. "TVT OW Sol wi’ his lang whip gae crackssUpon his nighering coofers’ backs,To gar them tak th’ Olympian Brae,Wi’ a cart lade of bleezing day ;The country hind ceafes to fnore.Bangs frae his bed, unlocks the door.His bladder tooms, and gies a rift.Then tentily furveys the lift.And, weary of his wife and flaes.To their embrace prefers his claes.Scarce had the lark forfook her neft,Whan Jouk, wha had got little reft,For thinking on his plot and laftie.Got up to gang and deal wi’ Bawfy :Away faft o’er the bent he gade.And fand him dozing on his bed,His blankets crielhy, foul his fark,His curtains trim’d with fpider’s wark*.Soot draps hang frae his roof and kipples,His floor was a’ tobacco fpittlcs :Yet on the antlets of a deer,Hang mony an auld claymore and fpear,With coat of iron and target trufty.Inch thick of dirt and unco rufty :Enough appear’d to fhew his Billy,That he was lazy, poor and filly.And wadna mak fo great a buftle,About his Bonnet as did Briftle.Jouk14 ATALEOFJouk three times rugged at his fhoulder,Cry’d three times laigh, and three times louder;At langrun, Bawfy rak’d his een,And cries, What’s that ? W hat do you mean ?Then looking up he fees his brither,Bawfy. Good-morrow Jouk, what brings youYou’re early up,—as I’m a finner (hither,I feenly rife before my dinner:Well, what’s ye’r news, and how gaes a’!Ye’ve been an unco time awa\Joukum. Bawfy, I’m blyth to fee you well,For me, thank God, I keep me heal:Get up, get up, ye lazy mart,I have a fecret to impart,Of which, when I give you an inkling,It will fet baith your lugs a tinkling.Bard. Straight Bawfy rifes, quickly drefles.While hafte his youky mind imprefles :Now rigg’d, and morning drink brought in,Thus did ilee-gabbet Jouk begin.Joukum. My worthy brither, well I wate.O’er fecklefs is your wee eilate.For fik a meikle faul as yours.That to things greater higher towersBut ye ly loitering here at hame,Negleftfu’ baith of wealth and fame,Tho’, as I faid, ye have a mind.That is for higher things defign’d.Bawfy. That’s very true, thanks to the Ikies,But how to get them there it lies.Joukum. I’ll tell ye Baws,—I’ve laid a plot,That only wants your calling vote,AndCanto III. THREE BONNETS. 15And if ye’ll gie’t, your bread is baken;But firft accept of this love-taken;Here tak this gowd and never wantEnough to gar you drink and rant;And this is but an arle-penny.To what I afterward defign ye;And in return I’m fure that IShall naething feek that ye’ll deny.Bawfy. And troth now Jouk, and neither will I,Or after never ca’ me Billy •,If I refufe, wae light upon me,This gowd, O vow! ’tis wonder bonny.Joukum. Ay, that it is ’tis e’en the a’That? gars the plough of living draw,’Tis Gowd gars fogers feight the fiercer.Without it preaching wad be fcarcer ;’Tis Gowd that makes the great men witty.And puggy lafies fair and pretty •,Without it ladies nice wad dwindle,Down to a wife that fnooves a fpindle.But to the point, and wave Digreflion,I make a free and plain confeffion.That I’m in love, and as I faid,Demand from you a little aid,To gain a bride that eithly can1 Make me fou bleft, and you a man :Give me your Bonnet to prefentMy miftrefs with,—and your confent.To rive the daft auld falhion’d DeedThat bids ye wear it on your head.Bawfy. O golh! O golh! then Jouk have at her,If that be a’ tis nae great matter.Joukum.16 A TALE OFJouktm. Thefe granted, the demands nae mairTo let us in her riches Ikair ;Nor fhall our herds, as heretofore,Rin aff with ane anither’s ftore,Nor ding out ane anither’s harns,% When they forgather ’mang the kairns;But freely may drive up and down,And fell in ilka market townBelongs to her,—which foon you’ll fee,If ye’ll be wife, belang to me :And, when that happy day fhall come,My honeft Bawfv, there’s my thumb,That while I breathe I’ll ne’er beguile ye,Ye’fe baith get gowd, and be a bailey.Bawfy. Faith Jouk, I fee but little fkaith.In breaking of a fenfelefs aith.That is impos’d by doited dads,(To pleafe their whims) on thoughtlefs lads,My Bonnet! welcome to my Bonnet!And meikle good may ye mak on it.Our Father’s Will Pfe mak nae dm,Tho’ Rofie fhould apply’t behin:But fay, does Billy Briifle ken,This your defign to make us men ?Joukum. Ay, that he does, but the fUff afsBears a heart-hatred to the lafs.And rattles out a hantla dories,Of blood and dirt and ancient glories,Meaning foul feuds that us’d to be.Between ours and her family •,Bans like a blockhead, that he’il ne’erTwin with his Bonnet for a’er Gear •,ButCanto IV. THREE BONNETS. i >But you and I conjoin’d can ding him,; And, by a vote, to reafon bring him;If fhe ftand clofe, ’tis unco eith,To rive the teft’ment fpite o’s teeth.And gar him ply, for a’ his clavers.To lift his Bonnet to our Beavers.Bawfy. Then let the doof delight in drudging.What caufe have we to tent his grudging ;Tho’ Roly’s flocks fed on the fells,! If you and I be well ourfells.Bard. Thus Jouk and Bawfy were agreed,And Brifs maun yield, it was decreed.Thus far I’ve fung in Highland ftrains,Of Jouk’s amours and pawky pains,To gain his ends with ilka brithert| Sae oppofite to ane anither jOf Bridle’s hardy refolutions,And hatred to the Rofycrucians jOf Bawfy, put in flavery neck-faft,Selling his Bonnet for a breakfaft.What follows on’t, of gain or fkaith,I’fe tell when we hae ta’en our breath.(CANTO IV.TOW foon as e’er the Will was torn,I Jouk with twa Bonnets, on the morn,Frae Fairyland faft bang’d away,' The prize at Rofy’s feet to lay jWha fleely, when he did appear,About his fuccefs ’gan to fpeer.Joukum. Here, bonny lafs, your humble HavePrefents you with the things you crave,Thei8 ATALE-OFThe riven Will and Bonnets twa.Which makes the third worth nought ava.Our power gi’en up, now I demandYour promis’d love, and eke your hand.Bard. Rofe fmil’d to fee the lad outwitted,And Bonnets to the flames committed,Immediately an awfu’ found.As ane wad thought, raife frae the ground :And fyne appear’d a ftalwart Ghaift,Whafe ftern and angry looks amaiftUnhool’d their fauls, lhaking they fawHim frae the fire the Bonnets drawThen came to Jouk, and with twa drugs,Encreas’d the length of baith his lugs.And faid, Ghaift. -Be a’ thy days an afs,And hackney to this cunning Lafs :But for thefe Bonnets I’ll preferve them.For bairns unborn that will deferve them.Bard. With that he vanifh’d frae their een.And left poor Jouk wi’ breeks not clean.He lhakes, while Rofie rants and capers.And ca’s the vifion nought but vapours :Rubs o’er his cheeks and gab wi’ ream,Till he believes’t to be a dream :Syne to the clofet leads the way.To foup him up with ufquebae.R.oJie. Now, bonny lad, ye may be free,To handle ought pertains to me *And ere the fun, though he be dry.Has driven down the weftlin Iky,ToCanto IV. THREE BONNETS 19ToTdrink his wamefu’ of the fea,There’s be but ane of you and me.In marriage ye {hall hae my hand iBut I maun hae the foie command,In Fairyland to faw and plant,And to fend there for ought I want.Bard. Ay, ay, cries Jouk, all in a fire,And ftiff’ning into ftrong defire,Jonkum. Come hafte thee, let us fign and feal:And let my billies gae to the Bard. Here it wad make o’er iang a tale,To tell how meikle cakes and ale,And beef and brce, and gryce and geefe.And pies, a’ running o’er wi’ creefh.Was ferv’d upon the wedding-table,To mak the lads and lafles able,To do, ye ken, what we think {hame,(Tho’ ilk ane does’t) to gie’t a name,But true it is, they foon were buckled.And foon (he made poor Jouk a cuckold.And play’d her bawdy fports before him.With chiels that car’d not tippence for Mm,Befides a Rofycrucian trick.She had a dealing with Auld Nick;And, whene’er Jouk began to grumble,Auld Nick in the neift room wad rumble.She drank, and fought, and fpent her gear.With dice, and felling o’ the mare.Thus living like a Belzi’s get.She ran her fell fae deep in debt.By borrowing money at a’ hands.That yearly income of her lands.Scarce paid the int’reft of her bands.20 A T A L E O FJouk, ay ca’d wife behind the hand.The daffing of his doings fand :O’er late he now began to fee,The ruin of his family :But pad: relief, lair’d in a midden,He is now oblig’d to do her biddin’.Away with ftri<5t command he’s fent.To F airyland to lift the rent.And with him many a catterpillar.To rug frae Birfs and Bawfy filler;For her braid table maun be lerv’d,Tho’ Fairy-fowk fhou’d a’ be ftarv’d.Jouk, thus furrounded with his guards,Now plunders hay-ftacks, barns, and yards.They drive the now’t frae Briftle’s fauld,While he can nought but ban and fcald.Brijlle. Vile flave to a hifley, ill begotten.By many dads, with claps haf rotten,We’rt na for honour of my mither,I fhou’d na think ye were my brither.Jouk. Dear brither, why this rude refledlion ?Learn to be gratefu’ for protection ;The Petereneans, bloody beails,That gar fouk lick the dowps of priefts,Elfe on a brander, like a haddock.Be broolied, fprawling like a paddock,Thefe monfters, lang or now had come,With faggots, taz, and tuck o’ drum.And twin’d you of your wealth and lives,Syne, without fpeering, your wivesHad not the Rofycrucians food.The bulwark of your rights and blood ;And21! Canto IV. THREE BONNETS.And yet forfooth, ye grin and grumble.And with a gab unthankfu’ mumbleOut mony a black unworthy curfe,When Rofie bids you draw your purfe;When file’s fae gen’roufly content,With not aboon thirty per cent.Brijlle. Damn you and her! tho’ now I’m blae,i Pm hopefu’ yet to fee the day,| Til gar ye baith repent that e’erI Ye reav’d by force away my gear,i Without, or thanks, or making price,I Or ever fpeering my advice.Joukum. Peace Gouk, we nae thing do at a’,| But by the letter of the law:■ Then nae mair with your din torment us,ii Growling like ane non compos mentis,| Elfe Rofie ifiue may a writ.To tye ye up baith hand and fit,:f And dungeon ye, but meat or drink,|j Till ye be ftarv’d and die in ftink.| Bard. Thus Jouk and Briftie, when they met,jj With -fie braw language ither treat.]l Juft fury glows in Briftle’s veins ;|l And tho’ his Bonnet he retains,(Yet on his creft he may not cock it.But in a coffer clofe maun lock it.Bare-headed, thus he e’en knocks under,|| And let’s them drive away the plunder,| Sae hae I feen, befide a tower,(The king of brutes oblig’d to cour jAnd, on his royal paunches thole,A dwarf to prob him with a pole!. While22 ATALEOFWhile he wad (haw his fangs and rage,With bootlefs brangling in his cage.Now follows that we take a peep,At Bawfy, looking like a (beep,By Bridle hated and defpis’d.By Jouk and Rofe as little priz’d.Soon as the horfe had heard his brither,Jouk and Rofe were prick’d the gither.Away he, fcours o’er hight and how,Fou fidging fain, whate’er he dow,Counting what things he now did mifter.That wad be gi’en him by his lifter.Like fhallow bards wha think they flee,Becaufe they live fax ftories high,To fome poor lifelefs lucubration.Prefix a fleeching dedication,And blythly dream they’ll be reftor’d,To ale-houfe credit, by my lord.Thus Bawfy’s mind in plenty row’d,While he thought on his promifs’d gowd.And baileyfhip, which he with fines.Wad mak like the Weft-India mines,Arrives, with future greatnefs dizzy,Ca’s Where’s Meft Jouk ?Meft Jouk is bify.Bawfy. My Lady Rofie, is fhe at leifure ?Beef. No, Sir, my lady’s at her pleafure.Bawfy. I wait for her, or, him, go fihew.—Beef. And pray ye, Mafter, wha are you ?Bawfy. Upo’ my faul this porter’s fawfy :Sirrah, go tell my name is Bawfy,Their4! Canto IV. THREE BONNETS. 23! Their brither who made up the marriage.Beef. And fo I thought it by your carriage.Between your houghs gae clap your gelding,Swith hame, and feaft upon a fpelding jFor there’s nae room beneath this roof,To entertain a fimple coof,, The like of you, that nane can truft,! Wha to your ain have been unjuft.Bard. This faid, he dadded to the yate,| *And left poor Bawfy in a fret,1 Wha-loudly gowl’d and made a din,1 That was o’erheard by a’ within.Quoth Rofe to Jouk, come let’s away,; And fee what’s yon makes a’ this fray,I ^Away they went, and faw the creature,Sair runkling ilka filly feature,! Of his dull phiz, with girns and glooms.Stamping and biting at his thumbs.I They tented him a little -while,1 Then came full on him with a fmile,I Which foon gart him forget the torture,| Was rais’d within him by the porter.'1 Sae will a fucking weanie yell.But fhake a rattle or a bell,|| It hands its tongue—Let that alane,I It to its yamering fa’s again :1 Lilt up a fang, and ftraights its feen,j To laugh with tears into its een.| Thus eithly anger’d, eithly pleas’d.Weak Bawfy lang they tantaliz’d.With promifes right wide extended,They ne’er perform’d nor ne’er intended :YBut24 A T A L E O F, &c.But now and then, when they did need himA fupper and a pint they gied him !That dpne, they ha’e nae mair to fay.And fcarcely ken him the neift day.Poor fallow, now this mony a year,With fome faint hope, and routh of fear,He has been wreftting with his fate,A drudge to Joukum and his mate;While Briftle faves his manly look,Regardlefs baith of Rofe and Jouk;Maintains right quietly ’yond the cairns.His honour, confcience, wife and bairns,Jouk and his rum legary wife,Drive on a drunken gaming life,’Caufe fober they can get nae reft,For Nick and Duniwhiftle’s ghaift,Wha in the garrets often tooly.And ftiore them with a bloody gully.Thus I have fung, in hamlet rhyme,A fang that fcorns the teeth of time.Yet modeftly I hide my name,Admiring virtue mair than fame.But tent ye w'ha delpife inftru&ion,And give my wark a wrong conftrudtion,Frae ’hind my curtain, mind I tell ye,I’ll ftioot a fatire thro’ your belly;But w'ha with bavins jees his Bonnet,And fays, Thanks t’ye for your Sonnet,Ye fhanna want the praifes dueTo generohty. Adieu. -