Faith’s Plea upon GOD’s Covenant.ASERMONOn a Preparation-day before difpenfingthe Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper,at KinglafTie, upon Pfalm Ixxiv. 20.Have rejpeci unto the Covenant.By the late REVERENDMr. RALPH E R S KIN E,Minifter of' the Gofpel at Dunfermline.THE FI FT E ENTH EDITToPrinted and fold by J. & M. ROBERTSONPREACHED-$*4-^4.•»GLASGOW:MDCCLXXXVIIFaith's Plea upon God’s Covenant.PSALM lxxiv. 20.Have rcfpeEi unto the Covenant.THE Pfalmift, in pleading for the church andpeople of God, and that he would appear:|for them againil their enemies, ufes federal argu-if ments. Particularly in the clofe of the preceed-Ihig verfe, there is fomething he pleads God maynot forget. ‘ Forget not the congregation of thy* poor for ever;’ a«nd the rather l\e ufes this argu¬ment,, becaufe he had faid, Pfalm ix. 14. ‘ The■* needy fhall not be forgotten; the expe&aticn of* the poor (hall not perifh for ever.’ Ihere is, inthis verfe, fomething he pleads, that Gcd may re¬member and have regard unto, ‘ Have refpeiSf un-T to the covenant.’ fhou haft bronght us into co-i venant with thee, might he fay, and though we areunworthy to be refpected, yet ‘ Have refpefl; unto* the covenant of promife.’ When God delivershis people, it is in rememberance of his coveRant,Lev. xxvi. 42. ‘Then will I remember my cove-* nant with Abraham, Ifaac, and Jacob: and E‘ will remember the land,’ We cannot expett hewill remember us, till he remember his covenant:t hence, therefore, we propofe to illuftrate the fol¬lowing truth.A 2Doctrine4 Faith's Plea uponDoctrine. “ That one of Faith’s ftrong pleas“ with God, is, That he would have refpecT to“ the covenant.”If we would deal with God for mercy, or pleadwith him for favour, or look to him for any goodat this occafion, let us expedt it only upon thisground, The refpedt he hath to the covenant, andplead upon this argument.The method we would obferve, as the Lord lhallaflift, for briefly handling this fubjed, (hall be thefollowing.I. Shew what covenant it is he will have a re-fped to.II. What it is for. God to have a refped>to thecovenant.III. What it is in the covenant he hath a refped to.IV. What kind of refped he hath to it.V. Why he hath a refped to it, and fo why itis a fuitable plea and argument in fuing for ■mercy.VI. Make fome application of the whole.i. We are then firft to {hew what covenant it ishe will have a refped to. The covenant here fpo-ken of is the covenant of grace and promife, madein Chrift Jefus, ‘ before the world began and pub-1lifhed in his gofpel to finners, Jer. xxxii. 39, 40.« And I will give them one heart and one way,* that they may fear me for ever, for the good of* them, and of their children after them. And I« will make an everlalting covenant with them,* that I will not turn away from them to do them* good: but I will put my fear in their hearts, that‘ they ftiall not depart from me, Ezek. xxxvi. 26.‘ A newGod'sCovenant.* A new heart alfo will I give you, a new fpirit* will I put within you, and I will take away the* ftony heart out of your flefli, &c. Jer. xxxi. 33,* But this lhall be the covenant that I will makej‘ with the houfe of Ifrael, after thofe days, faith* the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts,4 and write it in their hearts, and I will be their4 God: and they ihall be my people ' And in'Pfahn Ixxxix, throughout. It is called a covenantof Grace ; becaufe grace is the beginning and theend, the foundation and top ftone of it: even graceIreigning through righteoufnefs. —It is called a(covenant of Mercy; becaufe therein mercy to themiferable is proclaimed through juftice fatisfyingiblood ; for there ‘ mercy and truth met together ;*ijiand all ‘ the fure mercies of David,’ are conveyedhereby. It is called a covenant of Peace and Re-onciliation; becaufe it both treats of peace withod, and makes it good It is called a covenant ofromife; becaufe it lies in promifes with referencejlo us; and thefe to be accomplifhed upon the con-jlition already fulfilled in Chrift’s obedience and fa-liisfaclion; and becaufe therein the faithfulnefs ofhGJod is pledged, for making out all the promifes to'helievers, and the children of prcmife. It is cal-d a covenant of Salt; becaufe it is an incorrupti-le word, ‘ an everlafting covenant, well orderedin all things and fure.’ In a word it is a cove-[jant of help to poor helplefs finners, faying, ‘ Ihave laid help upon One that is mighty. OIfrael, thou haft deftroyed thyfelf, but in me isthy help ’ It is a covenant of Pardon to the guil-U faying, * I, even I, am he that blotteth out thytranfgrefiions for mine own fake, and I will notremember thy fins.’ it is a covenant of Supplythe needy, faying, ‘ When the poor and needyA 3 « feek6 Faith's Flea upon‘ feck water, and there is none, and their tongue* failerli for third:, I, the Lord will hear them, I,* the God of IfraeJ will not forfake them 5 It isa covenant of Gifts, wherein grace and glory arefreely give.: and in the difpenfation thereof, Godfays, come and take all freely, himfelf, his Chrilt,Lis Spirit, and all. Rev. sxii. 17. Ifa. lv. 1.II. We are to fhew what it is for God to haverefpeft to the covenant.1. God hath refprtl to the covenant when he re-m •mbers it, and to remembers us, as in that fore-cited, Lev. xxvi. 42. ‘1 will remember my cove-* nant, and then will I remember the land.’ ThusPfalm cix 5. ( He hath given meat to them that* fear him.’ Why, he will ever be mindful of hiscovenant, if he comes1 to give us meat to feed ourfouls at this occafion, the ground will be, he will!be mindful of his covenant, mindful of bis pro-mife.2. God may be faid to have refpect to his cove¬nant when he fegards it. He hath no reafon tohave refpeft or regard to us, but he fees reafon tO'have a regard to his covenant; he puts honours up¬on it, for reafons that I fit all afterwards {hew, on¬ly I {hall fay here, his honour is engaged therein,therefore he fays, ‘ My covenant will I not break,« nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips,* |Pfalm Ixxxix. 34. He hath more regard to it than Ihe hath to heaven and earth : for he fays, ‘ Hea-‘ ven and earth (hall pafs away, but my words dial4 not pafs away * He hath fuch regard to it, thathe will never break it, but ever keep it.3. He hath refpedb to bis covenant, when he e-,flabliflies it. And when we pray that he wouldhave 4 refpetSl to the covenant,’ we not only pradhi ICod's Covenant. 7; he would remember the covenant, and regard the: covenant, but eftablifh the covenant, betwixt himand us, as he faid to Abraham, Gen xvii. 7. ‘ I; ‘ will eftablilh it between me and thee, and thyj * feed after thee.’ He fhews refpett to the covenant,1 when he makes the covenant take hold of us, andmakes us take hold of the covenant; for then hemakes us put refpeft upon him,, and upon hig* co-! venant.4 He hath refpeft to his covenant, when he per¬forms the covenant-promife,"‘according to Micah vii.20. ‘ Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, and; ‘ the mercy to Abraham, which thou haft fworft to‘ our fathers from the days of old and he doesthis when he a&s according to the covenant, oraccording to the mercy that made the covenant,1, and the truth that is engaged to make out the pro-Imife, sIn fliert the fum of this prayer, as it concerns the)i import of the word Refpe£t, ‘ Have refpe£l to the‘ covenant,5 is, ‘ Lord, remember the covenant, and‘ fo remember me; Lord, have regard to the cove-‘ nant, and let me be remembered on this ground,* when there is no reafon why I ftiould be regard-‘ ed; Lord, eftablifir thy covenant with me, and foI‘ put honour up?n thy name manifefted in that co-* venant, and do to me according to the promife of* the covenant, eaufe me to hope in thy word, and‘ then ‘ remember thy word on which thou haft‘ ‘ caufed me to hopeand deal with me not ac-* cording to my fin and defert, but according to thy4 covenant and mercy in Chrift jefus.’HI. We are next to {hew what it is in fhe cove¬nant be hath a refpt<ft to, or that we ftiould pleadupon.A 4 1. * Have8Faith's Plea uponi. ‘ Have refpe£t to the covenantthat is, to theMediator of the covenant. Though thou oweft norefpeft to me, yet doft not thou owe refpeft, andhaft thou not a greater refped to the Mediator of thecovenant, even to him whom thou haft ‘ given to* be a covenant of the people?’ For his fake let me ]he pitied; have refpedt to the relation he bears tothe covenant, even to him who is the Mediator,Teftator, Witnefs, Meftenger, Surety of, and ALLthe covenant.- Have refpeft to his offices, and let ihim get the glory of his faving offices. It is a ftrongplea to plead with God upon the refpect he bears to jChrift ; God cannot win over fuch a plea as that. |He muft own his regard and refpe£l: to Chrift, who ihath paid fuch a refpeft to him, and ‘ finiffied the i':* work that he gave him to do.’7. Have refpetT to the covenant, by having re*-,fpe& to the blood of the covenant. The blood ofChrift, that is reprefented in the facrament of the :fupper, it is the ‘ blood of the covenant,’ called, ‘ the‘ New Teftament in his blood becaufe all the pro-|mifes are fealed therewith, and fo, ‘ Yea and Amen* in Chrift;’ this is the condition of the new cove-:;nant. The covenant of works had only the afliveobedience of the firft Adam for its condition: butthe condition of the covenant of grace properly, isboth the attive and paffive obedience of the fecondAdam, his doing and dying. Now, Lord, haverefpeft to that blood that fealed the covenant: fince 1the condition is fulfilled to thy infinite fatisfa£tion,let the promifed good be conferred upon me.3. Have refpett to the'covenant, by having re-,fpttt to the oath of the covenant, Heb. vi. 17. The,promife is confirmed with the covenant of God; 1‘ That by two immutable things wherein it is im-* poffible for God to lie, we might have ftrong con-‘ folation.God's Covenant. 9* folation,’ &c. Now, Lord, wilt thou not have,refpeft to thine own oath ? Haft thou not ‘ fworn‘ by thy holinefs, thou wilt not Ive unto Da-‘ vid?’4. Have refpect to the covenant, by having a re-fpeilt to the properties of the covenant. This wouldbe a large field, i fum it up in a few words. Haverefpe.^ to the covenant; that :s, Lord have refpeftto the fulnefs of the covenant, and let me be fup-plsed, for there is enough there; it contains 1 all iny* falvation and all my defire.’ Have refpeft to thefreedom of the covenant, and let me, however un¬worthy, (hare of the grace that runs freely thence.Have refpeft to the ftabiiity of the covenant, andlet me be pitied though unftable as water, and in¬firm, yet the covenant (lands faft: remember thyword that ‘ endures for ever.’ Have refpeit to theorder of the covenant, that 4 is well ordered in all4 things,’ as well as fure. 4 Though my houfe be4 not fo with God,’ fays David, 4 yet he hath made4 with me an everlafting covenant, well ordered in4 all things and fure.’ Though my houfe be cut oforder, and heart out of order, and my frame outof order, and all be in confufion with me, yet fee,according to thy covenant, to order all well.IV. We proceed to fhew what kind of a refpefrhe hath to the covenant, that we may be the moreengaged to plead upon it.i. He hath a great and high refpeft to the cove¬nant. It is the covenant of the Great GOD,with his Great and Eternal SON, for the ho¬nour and glory of his great Name; and therefore,he cannot but have a great and high rel'pe f untoit. His great name ie manifdted in it; and there¬fore when we plead his refpefl to the covenant, weA 5 plead10Faith's Plea upon \plead ia effect, faying, ‘ What wilt thou do for thy* great name ?’. 2. He hath a dear and lovely refpedl: to the cove¬nant, for it is the covenant of his grace and lovewherein he fhews his infinite love to Chrift, andthrough him to a company of wretched Tinners. Itis a covenant of kirtdnefs, Ifa iiv. to. 1 My kind-‘ nefs (hall not depart from thee, neither (hall the* covenant of my peace be removed, faith-the Lord,* that hath mercy on thee;’ intimating, his cove¬nant of peace is a covenant of kindnefs, wherein hemanifefts his deareft Jove; therefore-he hath a dearrefpeft to it.3. He hath a full refpcft to the covenant, a re-fpefl to every promife of it, ‘ they are a!! yea and‘ amen to the glory 6f God,’ 2 Cor. i- 20. He hatha refpeiEt to all of them, becaufe they ‘ are ail yea* and amen,’ and becaufe they are all thus rati¬fied in Chrift, to the glory of God. He hath re-fpeft to every article of the covenant, ‘ not a jot* fliall fall to the ground.’4. He hath an everlafting refpefi to the cove¬nant;’ therefcrejit is called, ‘an everlafting cove-‘ nant,’ it is fcciired by an everlafting righteouf-nefs; iris made between everiafting parties; it isreplenifbed with everlafting blefiings; it is rootedin his everlafting love : therefore he is very mind¬ful of his covenant, and will never ceafe to haverefpect to it.Well then fay- you. What need we pray andplead, that he would have refpeft to his covenant ?Why if it be fure that he hath, and will for everLave a refpedft to the covenant, then we may praywith the more nf] 11 ranee and confidence; fo thattl»ere is here a ftrong footing for our prayer: but be-fidee, when we pray, and fay, ‘ Have refpeeft unto1 theGod's Covenant.119the covenant,’ we leek, that he would (hew the:fpe£t that he hath unto it, that he would {hewad make it manifeft unto us, that we may have theiuth of it, and enjoy the fruits of it, and the blef-i-d effedts of that refpedt to it, in our participationjf the bleilings thereof.1 V. The next thing was, to (hew how he willave relpedt to his covenant; and cordequently,i hence it is fuch a tuitable plea and argument fors. Why,t. When he hath refpect to the covenant, helath reipedt to himfelf; the framer of it hp ownsjimfelf to be, Pfalm Ixxxix. 3. ‘ I have made a co-i venant with my chofen.’ V^hy then the ftrertgthf the pica is ‘ have refpecl unto the covenant,’und have rplpeft to thyfelf, and thy own glori-illus name and attributes, and let them be glorified,1 (hewing regard to the covenant. Have refpedt!o thy wifdom that (bines in the contrivance of the■ovenant, ‘ the manifold wifdom of God ; yea, the"i wifdom of Gcd in a myftery,’ that here appears,idave refpedtto the power that (bines in the erSca-y of the covenant, not only for over-poweringitrincipalities and powers, but overcoming thyfelf,'|nd the power of thine own wrath, by the powerif thy love. Have refpect to thy holinefs, thattjhihes in the holy oath of Jehovah, by which it islonfirmed, and the Jioly obedience of Jefus, byr hich it is fulfilled : fo that, ‘ as by the iinful dif-obedience of one, many were made finners, foby. the Holy obedience of another glorious One, ma-i ny are made righteous.’ Have refpeft to thy juf-;ice, that (bines in the blood of the covenant, theSacrifice by which jullice hath condign and infinite’sfadlion. Have refpedh to thy mercy and grace.A 6that1Faith's Plea uponthat reigns through that righteoufnefs to eternalire. Have refpect to thy truth and faitbfulnefsthat ftiines in accomplilhing al! the promifes of thecovenant, upon the ground of ChrUt’s having ful¬filled the condition. Have refpeel unto thy eter¬nity and immutability, in the unchangeabienefs othe covenant; fhew that tbou art God, and changefl not. Thus have refpedf to thyfelf.2. When be hath refpe£t to the covenant, hhath refpecl to his Son, Chrift, the centre of it, ain whom it ilands fall as he owns, Pfal Ixxxix. 28.* My covenant (hall Hand fail with him.’ Whythen, the firength of the plea is ‘ have refpecl t‘ the covenant,’ and Co (hew refpe£l to thy Son ;ihave refpecl to him in his perfon, as he is thy Soiland oiir Saviour; Emanuel, God-man; in his di¬vinity, wherein he is equal with God; in his hu¬manity, wherein he is the Ivlafter-ph’ce of God'sworks. Have refpecl to him in his purchafe, which:• is the fubflance of the covenant bought with hisblood. Have.refpe£l to his death and refurreclionfor thou Icveft him on this account, John x. i7;* Therefore doth the Father love me, becaufe I lay* down my life, that I may take it up againwhere we fee that Chrift, as dying and rifing inthe room of his people, is the obje£l of the Fa¬ther’s love, delight and efteem. Have refpeft un¬to his interceffion, wherein he prays for all thebleflVngs of the covenant that he hath purchafed*Doth not the Father hear him always? Have re--fpe£l to his commiiiion which is fealed by thee Jfor 1 him hath God the Father fer.led,’ appointed,and authorised unto al! faving offices, relations, andiappearances, let him get the glory of ail thefeftrong plea !2. When he hath refpefl to the covenant, hehat hi1 JiGod's Covenant. 13hsth refpeft to his Spirit, the great applier cf thecovenant bleftings, anti executor of the Teftament,fealed with the blood of Chrift, and by whom co¬venant-love is fheri abroad upon the heart, Rom.v. Why then the ftrength of the plea is, ‘ have‘ re;'pe£t to the covenant;' that is, have refpe£t tothy own Spirit, that he may get the glory of ap¬plying by his power, what Chrifl hath purchafedby his blood. Have refpe£l: to the Pronaife, of theSpirit that thou haft made, that ‘ when he is come‘ hefliall convince the world of fin, righteoufnefs,'‘ and j'jdgment,’ and teftify of Chrift, and glori¬fy Chrift, by (hewing the things cf Chrift. Haverefpe£c to the cfHces of the Spirit, as he is a con-vincer, fanQifier, and comforter, according to theorder and method of the covenant. Have refpedl:to the honour of the Spirit, who is the all in allof the covenant, in point of power, and powerfulmanifeftation, communication, and operation -—Have refpect to the relations of the Spirit, as heis the Spirit of the Father, and of the Son, the Spi¬rit of the covenant, and of all the covenanted feed.Hence,4. Whetf he hath refpect to the covenant, hehath refpett to his people on the account of the co¬venant of promife; for they, as Ifaac was, ‘ are the‘ children of prornife;’Gal. iv. 28. Why then, theftrength of the plea and argument here is, Lord,‘ have refpedl: to the covenant,’ and fo {hew regardand refpedf to us. We have no confidence to claimany rofpect at thy hand, but merely upon the ac¬count of the refpedf thou haft to the covenant.Have refpedl to our perfons on this ground, fincethe covenant provides acceptance ‘ in the beloved,*Fph. i. 6. Look upon us in the face of thine a-noin‘ed, and in the glafs of the new covenant.Have114 - Faith's Pica uponHave refpeft to our prayers and performances onthis ground, fince the covenant hath providedmuch incenfe to perfume the prayers and offeringsof all faints, upon the golden altar that is beforethe throne, Rev. viii. 3. Have refpe£l to our tears,when we ligh and groan and mourn, and weepbefore thee, fines the covenant provides a bottlefor our tears,..Pfalm Ivi. 8. ‘ Put thou my tears in‘ thy bottle.’ Have refpeft to our needs on thisground, when we are hardened, that we can nei- .ther pray nor weep, nor fhed a tear, fince the co¬venant provides fupply to the poor and needy,Philip, iv. ip. c My God (hall fupply all your‘ need, according to his riches, in glory, by Jcfus« Chrift.’VI. I flull now proceed to make fome applica¬tion of the fubjedl in tbefe four words.1. Hence fee a mark and charadter of true belie¬vers, that are fit for a communion table, they areof God’s mind; he hath a refpedt to the covenant, - :■and they have a refpedt to the covenant; and hencethey know what it is to plead with God upon therefpedt that he hath to the covenant: they couldnot do fo, if they had net a nigh refpedt to :t them-felves: they have fuch a refpedt to the covenant inkind as God hath. They have a great refpedt toit, fo as they efteem it more than all things in aworld, they would not give one promife of it, onwhich they have been caufed to hope, for ail thegold of Ophir. They‘have £ dear and kindly re¬fpedt to it, as all their falration and all their defire:yea, and all their delight aifo. The word of graceis fweeter to them ‘ than honey and the honey-‘ comb.’ They have a full and univerfal refpedf toit, and to all the promifes of it; they refpedt thepromife—God's Covenant. 15promife cf purity 25 well as the promife of par¬don; the promife of falvaticn from fin as well, amiis much, as the promifs of falvation from hell ;:he promife of hclinefs as well as of happinefs. As:hey have a refpetf to all God's commandments,fo they have a refpecl to all his promifes; and par¬ticularly as David had his golden Pfalms, fo theyhave their golden Promifes, that they are made toping upon. Yea, they have an everlafting refpectto the covenant and to the promifes thereof; evenwhen tlieir frame fails them, when their fwect en¬joyments fail them, yet their refpc *• to the cove¬nant remains, and their refpecd to the Maker of thebovinant, to the Mediator of the covenant, to thelalood and oath of the covenant, to the Spirit of the•((covenant, and to the bieOings and benefits of it.i They have an everlafting refpebt to the grace of thecovenant cf grace ; they are adorers and admirersjof free grace. They have an everlafting refpebb to,uud remembrance of the words of the covenant,(particularly thefe words that have been let in with(any life or power upon their foul, or thaSf theyhave been caufed to hope upon ; whatever theyforget, they can never forget fuch a word that.'brought life to their fouls; ‘ I will never forget thy‘ words, fays David; for by them thou haft quick->! ened me.’ They have fuch an everlafting refpeeftto the covenant, that, when they have nothing in((the world to truft to; they will rely on the cove-fant, and confide in fuch a promife, and plead up-n it, faying, Lord, ‘ Have refpeft to the cove¬nant.’2. Hence we may fee the mifery of thofe that are^unbelievers, and remain ‘ ftrangers to the cove-S* nant of premife,’ and have no refpeeft to the ce-ivenant. It is mifery enough, that God hath no re~fpe£t16 Faith's Plea upon \fpe£l to you : no relpeft to your perfons nor pray¬ers, as it is faid, * To Caia and his offering, God* had no refpect/ Gen. iv. 5. So God hath no re-fpect either to your perfons or performances: theyare an abomination to him. Your prayers to himare but like the howling of a dog, if you have ne¬ver taken hold of his covenant, nor feen the re-fpeft that God hath to the covenant. You haveno refpe£t to God, while you have no refpeft tothat which he refpe£fs fo highly. And as he hathno refpe£i to your perfon or performances, he hathno refpedl to*youf tears: they never flowed from,faith’s views of a pierced Chrift. He hath no re-•fpeft to your fouls, the ‘ redemption therefore ceaf-* eth for ever,’ becaufe you have no due refpeft to.the Redeemer's blood and righteoufnefs. He hath ("no refpeff to your communicating: nay, he difap-proves of it, and difcharges you to fit down at histable, on peril of eating and drinking your dam¬nation. God hath no regard nor refpeff to yourfalvation, becaufe you have no regard nor refpect.to the Saviour he bath provided and offered. Godthinks as little to damn you, as you think little to ,difhonour him. God thinks as little of you, as youthink little of f:n, and he hath as little refpeft toyou, as you have to Chnfi: and to the covenant.Wo to you, if you remain in this cafe, for the dayis coming, wherein God will, before ail the world,:'(hew no more refpeff to you, than t® fay to you,*‘ Depart from me ye curfed, into everiafting fire, .* prepared for the devil and his angels!’ But,3. Hence we may fee the happinefs of believers,,that have fuch a refpeff to the covenant, as I wasfpeaking of, a great, dear, full, and perpetual re-fpeft to it and the Mediator of it, who have ta--ken hold of the covenant through grace, and knowwhatGod's Covenant. 17what it is to take hold of God in the covenant, totake hold of God in a promife, and to hold himby his word, and rely upon him in it, faying, Lord,* Have refpeft to the covenanthere is your greatihappinefs, God hath refpeH to you : What refpe£l?(Even to your perfons and offerings, aslt is faid ofAbel, Gerr. iv. 4. ‘ God had a refpeft to him and‘ to his offering.’ Though you be faying in youriheart, Oh ! how can he have refpetl to me, black; and vile, and guilty me? Why! not for your fakeindeed, be it known unto you, but for his cove¬nant’s fake, and his name’s fake. He h'.th a refpectto your praying, and praifing, and communicat¬ing; becaufe he hath a refpedt to the covenant- Heihath a refpedt to your name, though ‘ the name of‘ the wicked fhall rot, your name fhall be had in* everlafling remembrancefor God hath put his1 name in you ; fomething of Chrifl in you, fome-thing of the covenant in you. Some obferve, when!i Abram’s name was turned to Abraham, there wasif fome of the letters of the name Jehovah put inAbram’s name. Indeed, God gives the believer afl new name, that he hath a refpetf unto, he hath a4 reipedl to your fuits and fupplications; ‘ I have* * heard Ephraim bemoaning himfelf. O my dove,1 ‘ that art in the cleft of the rock, in the fecret pla-* ces of the flairs: let me hear thy voice, let me‘ fee thy countenance, for fweet is thy voice, and‘ thy countenance is comely.’ He hath a re-fpedi to his doves, when pouring out their heartsbefore him; that voice that the world laughs at,God hath a refpedt to it. He hath a refpedt toyour blood, precious in his fight is the blood ofhis faints. He hath a refpedt to your fouls; andhence he gave his blood to be a ranfom for them,and when your fouls languilh, he fends his Spiritto18 Faith's Plea uponto reftore them, and when you die, he will fendhis angels to bring them to heaven. He hath arefpedl to your bodies; you ought, being boughtwith a price to glorify him in your fouls and bo¬dies, which are his. When your bodies go to theduft, he will take care of that dull, and lofe no¬thing of you, but raife you up at the day, andmak- your vile bodies like unto his glorious body;and fo {hall ye ever be with the Lord. He hath arefpedb to you, fuch a refpeft, that he puts honourupon you, ‘ Since thoa waft precious in my*■ fight, thou haft been honourable.’ He hath madeyoa kings and priefts to your God, Jacob was icrowned a prince in the field Of battle, the field ofprayer, when he wrellled with the angel and pre¬vailed as a prince. i he poor wreftling man is aprince, and the poor wreftling woman a princefs,in God’s fight: this is the honour of all the faints.They have power with Gee!, and therefore no won¬der that they have ‘ power over the nations, torule them with a rod of iron:’ they iudge and tor~ment them that dwell upon the earth, even here;and ‘ know you not, that hereafter the faints fttalljudge the world God hath a refpeft to you, andhe will {hew it in due time, becaufe he hath a re-fpe£l to the covenant, and hath filled your heartwith refpeft to ft aifo.4. Hence fee the duty incumbent upon us inpleading with God for his favour, prefence, andblefling ; let us go to him both in fecret prayer, and iin folemn approaches to his table, crying, Lord‘ Have refpedl: to thy covenant.’ 1 know not a cafeyou can be in, but the covenant exhibits a cure,and you are allowed to plead ir, Ezek xxxi/. 27. JAlter many precious new-covenant promifes, it is Ifaid, ‘ For this will i be enquired of bv the houfe ‘of IGod's Covenant’. 19* of Ifrael, to do it for them,’ and how are we to[enquire, but by pleading the refpeft he hath tothe covenant! Have you a poiluted heart with theifilth of fin? a polluted confcience, witty*the guiltI of fin? Why, here is an article of the covenant:‘ I will fprinlde clean water upon you, and ye* {hall be clean irom all your filthinefs, and fronj‘ all your idols will I cleanfe you,’ verfe 2$, Othen, go to God for cleanfing, and plead, faying,O Lord, ‘Have refpect to the covenant.’ Haveyou the old hard ftony heart ftill within you, andm would you have it renewed and foftened ? Here isI an article of the covenant, ‘ A new heart will I1 * give you, and a new fpirit -will I put within you:1 * I will take away the ftony heart out of your flefiir* and I will give you an heart of flelh.’ O then,jjj go to God and plead it, faying, ‘ Have refpe£t to| ‘ the covenant.’ Are you dcftitute of the Spirit;Sfeni'ual, not having the Spirit ? Do you find fuch awant of the Spirit, that you cannot walk in God’sway ! Well, there is an article of the covenant| here, ver. 27. ‘ I will put my Spirit within you,' * ^nd caufe you to walk in my ftatutes,’ O pleadI for this great bleffing, and fay, Lord, ‘ Have re-*• fpe£t to the covenant.’In a word, when you confider what Itind of afinner you are, confider alfo what kind of a cove¬nant this is; it is enough to fay, that it is a cove¬nant of grace, of all forts of grace; for all forts offinners that are out of hell. Are you under dread¬ful guilt ? Here is a covenant of pardoning grace,‘ I will blot out thy fin as a cloud, and thy tranf*‘ greflion as a thick cloud; return to me for I have‘ redeemed thee,’ Ifa. xlix. 22. O then, plead that hemay ‘ have refpett to the covenant.’ Are you un¬der fearful pollutions ? O here is a covenant of pu¬rifying20Faith's Plea uponrifying grace, faying, ‘ There is a fountain opened* to the houfe of David and the inhabitants of Je-^j* rufalem, for fin and for uncleannefs.’ O thenplead he may have refpe£t to the covenant Areyou in darknefs and ignorance, having no know¬ledge of God? O here is a covenant of enlighten--ing grace, faying, ‘ They fliall all be tanght of* God,’ O then plead it, faying, ‘ Lord, have re-* fpe£l: to the covenant.’ Are you under deadnefs,and like dead and dry bones? O here is a covenantof quickening grace, faying, ‘ I am come to give‘ life, and to give it more abundantly^ The hour‘ cometh, when the dead {hall hear the voice of^ the Son of God, and they that hear {hall live,*'O then plead that he may ‘ have refpedd to the* covenant.’ Are you in confufion, and know notwhat way to take? Oh here is a covenant of direct¬ing grace, faying, ‘ i will bring the blind by a way* they know not; I will lead them in paths that‘ they havs not known; I will make darknCTs light4 before thenp, and crooked things ftraight.’ Areyou under fad plagues and foul-difeafes, over-runwith fores, from the crown of the head to the foieof the foot ? O here is a covenant of healing grace,faying, 4 The Sun of righteoufnefs lhall a rife with4 healing in his wings. I am the Lord that heal-4 eth thee; I will heal yourbackflidtngs.’ O thenplead, faying, Lord, ‘ Have refpeft to the cove-4 nant.’ Are you in extreme danger of hell anddamnation, becaufe of your fin and guilt? O hereis a covenant of delivering grace, faying, ‘ Deliver* his foul from going down to the pit, for I have4 found aranfom, O then plead it, and fay, Lord,4 Have refpeCl to the covenant.’ Are you in bon¬dage unto fin, Satan, and the world, a captive un¬to Juft, and (hut up in unbelief, as in a prifon ? OhereGod's Covenant.21tere is a covenant of liberating grace! ‘ prociaim-j ing liberty to the captives, and the opening of[j the ptifon to them that are bound.’ Are youi ftupid foul that cannot move toward God, nor•fir heaven-ward, by reafon of a backward willike a brazen gate, that refifts all the force of mov-jjng means? Well, but, O ! here is a covenant ofdrawing grace, faying, * When I am lifted up, Iv will draw rll men after me.* As the power andIjirtue of the Joadftone draws iron, fo the virtue ofn exalted Chrift draws the iron bar of the will,,» Thy people fhall be willing in the day of thyj power,’ O then plead it, faying, Lord, ‘ Have1 refpe£t to the covenant.’' What other concerns have you ?—Are you con-'jerned for your children, that they may be parta-ers of ccvenant-bJelfings, and faved of the Lord ?) here is a covenant of extenfive grace entailingjlelTmgs on us and our offspring, faying, ‘ I willill be thy God, and the God of thy feed.’ O thenook to God in behalf of your children, faying,u,ord, ‘ Have .refpeft to the covenant.’ Are you|oncerned for the church, and the dangerous cir-numftances flie is in by reafon of cruel enemies?jfhis feems to be the great concern of the Pfalmifttere, as appears from the body of the pfalm, andbe words following the text: For * the dark pla-| ces of the earth are full of the habitations of cru-t elty.* Thefe that live in the darknefs of ignorance‘l|nd error, and in the works of darknefs, are full ofruelty againft the church and people of God, andKey ar? furrounded with them, infomuch that thehurch is ^‘ke a ‘ lily among thorns,’ or a ‘{beep; among wolves,’ what (hall become of her? Why,tere is a covenant of defence., and of defendingind protefting grace, faying, ‘ Upon all the glory‘ there22Faith's Plea vp»n* there {hall be a defencetherefore, even whenenemies < break down the carved works with axes‘ and hammers,’ verfe 7. WTien they are faying,* Let us deftroy them together,' ver. 8. Yea, whenit fhal! come to this, that a bloody fword, that israging abroad, {hall come over to us, and that fo¬reign or domeflic enemies, or both, {hall devour anddeftroy, and may be ‘ burn up all the fynagogues* of God in the land,’ as it is, ver. 8 And when we{hall ‘ not fee our figns, and there is no more any* prophet, nor any among us that know the time* how long,’ ver 9. In all'fuch cafes, what courfe{hall we take but that of the Pfalmift here ? Lord,:* Have refpedt to the covenant.’Are you concerned about inward enemies, fpiri^jtual enemies, and molefted with the powers of dark-*!nefs? Is your heart full of the habitations of crue’-jty, and fearfully inhabited with cruel devils, cruel!iails, cruel corruptions that mafter and con^uerjiand prevail againft yojj, fo that you may ly manytime wounded and dead at the enemy’s feet ? 0here is a covenant of fin-conquering grace, not on<ily a covenant of mercy to your foul, but of ven¬geance to your lufts, faying, ‘The day of vengeanct* is in mine heart, the year of my Redeemer is come,Ifa. Ixiii. 4. O then cry down the promifed ven¬geance on all your cruel foul-enemies, faying, Lon!‘ Have refpe£i: to the covenant.’Are you concerned about your foul-poverty am!indigence, not only opprcfied with enemies wirhiout and within, but alfo opprefled with wants am tneceftities, being abfolutely poor and needy, deftiltute of all good ? O here is a covenant of foul-fupjiplying grace, and of all needful provifion, faying 1‘ When the poor and needy feek water, and then‘ is none, and their tongue faileih for third, I tblf,‘ Lor iGocCs Covenant. 231 Lord will hear them, I the God of Jacob will1 not forfeke them; I will pour water upon him3 that is thirfty, and floods upon the dry ground/1 then, plead the covenant as the Pfalmift here in•the following verfe. ‘ O let the opprefibr returnI afhamed, let the poor and needy praife thy name.: Have refpe£l to the covenant/In a word, Let your cafe be the word out of'ell, this covenant contains all falvation as a cove-lant of gra«e, of all grace, of all forts of cures forII forts of cafe*; and if you can get yourfelf wrapt-dthin the bond of this'covenant, by believing andileading it; then you draw God upon your inte-bfl:, fo that your concern is his concern, your inte-bft is his interefl, your caufe is his caufe, as theli’falmifl; (hews here, vet. 22. ‘ Arife, O God,c plead thine own caufe/ Stand ever upon hisvionour, and he will do his own work in his owndime. If ever you got grace to draw a bill upontjjjod as a covenanting, prornifing God in Chrift,bnd have any bills lying tabled before the throne,Ijjlnd are fometimes unable to plead and purfue theI'ill, with, Lord, ‘ i'lave refpeft unto the covenant,’ilJou have the flrongelt encouragement to wait ontr im, and expect his anfwering the bill in due time ;t>r he »ill rather work marvelloufly, and createMew worlds, rather turn all things to nothing, thanIuit his concern in, or give up with his ‘ refpedfcunto the covenant/Arc you concerned for the advancement of theingdom of Chrift in the earth, as you ought toc? Here is a covenant of grace to the Jews, andrace to the Gentiles; grace to the Heathen nations,hying, ‘ I will give thee the Heathen for thine in-:k heritance, and the uttermoft parts of the earth0 for thy pofleffion/ Are you concerned about ge¬nerations24 Faith's Plea upony &c.nerations to come, about the rifing generation, whenthere is little hope of the prefent i O ! here iscovenant of grace to fucceeding generations till theend of the world, * I will make thy name to be re« membered in all generations; therefore {hall the* people praife thee for ever and ever.’Are you concerned about your latter end, an-how it {hall fare with you when in the fwelling-of Jordan ; how you will fight the battle ? O hereis a covenant of death-conquering grace, faying,* Death {hall be fwallowed^up in viftory : O death* I will be thy plague. O grave, I will be thy* flrudlion. Are you concerned about a gofpelminiftry, and thoughtful whether it {hall be contrnued? There is many a word in this covenant a^bout it; but efpecially, that Chrift is exalted tmaintain and fupport a gofpel difpenfation to lhend of the world, Mat. xxviii. 20. Whatfoevefpot of the earth he doth chufe or refufe, he havin* afcended on high, hath received gifts for menc yea, for the rebellious, alfo that the Lord Go* might dwell among them,’ Pfalm Ixviii. 18..FINIS.