TH E „AGE and LIFE .M A. N.o 6,L rtiort Defcription ofthe NATUR', RISE,! and FALL, according to the TwelveMonths of the Year.to which1 are added[’ll never love thee more,Henry’s Cottage-Maid.Edinbirght Printed by J. Morren,I;( 2 )T^,e A. G E and LIFE of i\I A NTUNE—*..ISLE OF KELL,T 7 PON the fixtecn hundredth year, j^ of God, and fifty three,Frae Chrift was horn that bought us dear,as writings teftifie. •On January the fixreenth day,as,f did ly alone,^Vith many a figh and fob did fay.making an heavy moan.Dame Nature, the excellent bride,did (land up me before,And faid to me, thou muft provide,this life for to abhor;Thou fees what things aie gone beforet j:experienjce tcathes thee,In what ftate that c'ter thou be.remember qaan to die.Of all the creatures bearing life,recal back in thy mindCcnftder how they ebb and thriveeach thing m thek own kindYet few of them have fuch a drain,p.s God hath giv’n to thee:Therefore this lefibn keep in' min:’.,remember, man, to die.j Man's courfe cn earth I will rcporf,it 1 have time and fpace;I It may he Icns^, it may be Ihort,I as God hath giv’n thee grace :I His nature to the herhs comparethat in the ground ly dead,■; And to each month add five year,and To ms will proceed,! The ftrft five years then of naan’s lifei compare to januar :i In all that time but fiutt and flrife,he cm but greet and roar:So is the fields of flow’rs ail brae,by reafon of the froft ;! Keeping the ground both foft and foundyet none of them is loft., So to years ten, I (halt fpcak thsn,of rebutar but lack ;The child is meek, and weak of fprt,nothing can undertake.So all the flow’rs for lack of fhdw’rs,no fpringir.g up czn make,; Yet birds do ling, and praife their Kand each one chcofe their mate.Then in comes March that.noble arch,with wboicfome fpring and air.The chiles doth f> ring to years hlteen,with vifage fine and fair :i So do the flow’rs with foftmng fhow’rsay fpring up as we fee;Yet nevertbelefs, remember this,that one day ve mufl die.Then'brave Apri] doth fleetly fmiifc,^ the flow’rs do fair appear,The child is then become a man,to the age of twenty year.If he' be kind and well inclin’d,and brought up at the. fchooi,Then men may know if he forth fhovv,a wife man or a foolThen cometh May, gallant, and-gay,when fragrant flow’rs do thrive,The child is then become a man,• of age twenty and five ;And for his life.doth feek a wife,his life anddays to fyecdGhrift from above fend peace and iov?, i.and.grace umo the. end.Then ccmerh June with pkaf&nt tune,when fields with fiow’rs. are dad.And Ehoebus bright is at his'height,all creatures then are fed.Then he appears of tfiety years,-with coura-go bald ar 1 ft out.His nature fo makes-him xo go,of death he hath no doubt.Then July comes with hisdrar calms,' and conflant iri his kind ;;V ? f . rThe man doth thrive to thirty-hve,then fober is'in "mind,His children flhsll do oa him call,and breed him flurt and (trite ;His wife may die, and fo mu ft hego feek another wife.Then Auguft bid. both (tout and boldwhen f)ow;rs do floutly (land;So man appears' to forty years,with wUdom and command:And doth provide his houfe to guide,children and familie :Yet do not mifs t'remcmber this,that one day - thou muft die.September then comes with his train,and makes the flow’rs to fade,Then man believe-is forty-five,grave, conftant, -wife and fed ;When he looks on how youth is gone,and (hall it mo-mcreiee.;Then may he iay, both night and day,have mercy, Lord, on m£h06-ober’s blafl comes in with hoafts,and makes the flpw’rs to fall,Thcr. mairappears to fifty- years;old,age doth on him call:The almond tree doth fiourifn hieandrpalc.grows man we fee,-.Then k is time to ufe »bisdinf,remember, man, to die.5:( 6 ) ;tNovember air maketh fields bare,of flow’rs, of grafs ^i’k! corn ;Then man appear to fiity-hve years,and lick both e’en and morn ;Loins, legs and thighs without difeafer, '! rmakes him to figh and fay.Ah ! Chi ill on high have ^tiind on me,and learn me for to die.Pecember fell both (harp and feel),makes flow'rs creep in the around,Then man’s thieef'eore, both fick and for?no foundnefs in him found :His ears and een and teeth of bane,all thefe now do him fail,Then may he fay both night and day,that death {hall him ailaii.And if there ^>e thro’ nature Srong,fomc that live ten years more ;Or if he creepetk np and downtill he come to fourfeore jYet all this time is but a line,no plcafure can .he fee;Then *iay he fay both night and day,have mercy. Lord, on me. . #Thus have !' shown you as I can,the courfe of all mens life :We will return where we began,but either Hurt or ftrile,Dame Memorie doth.take her leave,fits’ll lad: no more, we leejI( 7 ^od grant that we may net him grieve,ye’ll get'nd more of me.I’ll Never Love thee More. 'SyrY dear and only love, I pray,I* that little world of thee,lie govern’d by no other fway,J but psreft monarchy,[or if ccnfnfion have a parr,whioh virtous foul? abhor,11 call a fynod in my heart,i and never love thee more,its Alexander I will rtign,and l will ret^n alone,' fly thoughts did evermore difdain,a rival on my throne.Ide either fears his fate too much,or his deferts’ are fmall,iVho dares not put it to the touch,to gain or loie it all,But I will reign, and govern Hill.and always give the law,And have each fubjeft at my will,and all to ftand in aw :But ’gainft my batt’ries if I findthou ftorm or vex me lore.As if thou let me as a blind.I’ll never love thee mere.And in the empire of thy heart,where l Ihouid folely be,dT., If others do pretend a part,'or dares to ihare with me:Or committees if thou ered,or go on fuch a fcore,I’li fmiling mock at they negkd,and never love thee more,But if no feithlcfs a&ion flainthy love and conftant word,I‘ll make thee famous by my pen,and glorious by my fword,I‘ll ferve thee in fuch noble ways,as ne'er was known before :Ml deck and crown thy head with bays,and love thee more and more*HENRY'S COTTAGE-MAID.AH where can fly my fool s true love ?Sad ( wander this lone grove;Sighs and tears for him I fried, .Hcnrj is from Laura fled.Thy love to me thou didft impart.Thy love foon won my virgin heart;But deareft Henry thou‘ft betray dThy love with my poor cottagc-maid.rhro* the vale my grief appears,Sighing fad with pearly tears:Oft thy image isihy rheme,As I wander on- the green :See, from my cheek the coulour flies,Aud love s Iweec hope within me dies;For oh! dear Henry, thott'ft betrayd.Thy love with ray <W‘ village-maid. ^ j