^urprifmg and MelancholyACCOUNTO FRICHARD SMITH,j BOOK - BINDER,•And Prifoner for Debt within the Libertyof the KINGVBENCH, and'BRIDGET SMITH, his Wife,were found hanging near their Bed.;And in another Uooni, their Child, abou-t2 Years oid, was found in a Craddle fhotI through the head. OV 5C.TlVi.Ah iI R. KFALKPrinted and Sold at the Printing-Office,In the Hi{>h Street, oppofice to the Cnfs-IVeil,Whrre variety of other Pamphlets are laid inWholeiale and Retail. 17^5.A NACCOUNTOf the Melancholy Story ofRICHARD SMITH, and his SPOUSEFrom the London Evening-Poft,June 2 2d. 1770.THE confirmation of a (hocking paffagfconcerning one Richard Smith, sBook-binder, and prifoner for debt withirthe liberty of the King’s Bench, ant1Bi idget Smith, his wife, who were foundhanging near their bed ; and in anotherroom, their child, about two years d!d,was found in a cradle Ihot through thehead: (not its throat cut, as had beenfni i ) Phis melancholly fcene had oc-jcalioned various conjectures concerningjthe cafe, but as the following letters werefound in a room, one directed to theirland-jTidlorcl, and two others inclofed tor. Brindley, in New-bond-flreet ; weiul’e to give them genuine to the reader,id leave him to make reflections on foocking a fccne.To Mr. B R I G H T R E D.[Sir,HE neceflity of my affairs has obligedme to give you this trouble. I hopetave left more than is futficient for thetoney 1 owe you: 1 beg of you, thatu would be pleafed to lend thel'e in-fed papers as directed, immediately byne porter, and that without fliewing|jem to any oneYour humble Servant,T. S. Richard Smith.B S. I have a fait of b ack deaths at thejiCock-lnn, in Mint-flrect ; which lies forill7 s. and 6d. if you could find anyllchap for my d«»g and antient cat, itwould be kind. I have here lent one(hilling for the porter,ToL‘ 4 ]To Cousin BUI NDLE Y.IT is now about the time I promifepavrj)ayment to Mr. Brooks, which I h.ivtperformed is the belt manner I was abit|I will it had been done more to yowlfatisfa&ion, but the 'hing was impolfibleiI here return you hearty thanks for thfavouis which I received, it bein« all th1tribute I am aide to pay. I here iscertain anonimous perfon, vvftom you havrfome knowledge of, who 1 am informedhas taken fome pains to make the worlisjbelieve he has done me fervtces, I wilh tha|laid perfon had never troubled his heajabout my affairs, I am fare he had no bufan Is with them, for it was intirely owiiT;|to hts meddling, that I came pcnnylefs ti|this place: whereas, had I brought eol. iiwith me, which 1 could cafiiy have clone, fcould not then have miffed gettingbread here, and in time have been able vcome to terms with my plaintiff, wliofilunacy I believe could not have Jailed allways I mull not here conclude, for nameddling friends man, b'ancho Pancho:would perhaps take it ill, did 1 not makemention of him ; therefore if it lies iiV0U1your way let Sancho know, that his impu¬dence and iniolence was not To much for¬gotten, as delpil’cd. I lhall now make anend of this epi.dle, defining you to publifhthe inclofed, as to the manner how i k\ veit intirfly to your ju(.:«menB. That allhappipefs may attend you and yours, is theprayer ofYour affecUonate kin fat an even to death,T. S. ft. S.P. S. If it lies in your way, let that goodmatured man, ivir. D1 income know, thatI remembei Inm with my laft breath.To Mr. HIND LEY.rT‘FrSJ’: adlions confidered is all theirurcurnflances, being ibmevvhat un¬common, it may not be improper to givefome account or the caufe, and it was aninvetred hatred we conceived againft po¬verty and raggs ; evils vh#t tin o’ a traiti ofunlucky accidents were become inevitabie ;for we appeal to all thst ever knew us,whether v.c were either idle or c*trava-a3-1^r & tU; 0 Jgant, h'ther\'i no - ; , nve not taken asnmch v.-.,;ns o,ur i.4- as oqT neigh¬bours aklio’ not ?ttendeu \vitb the lameI'iiccc, We appr< t>-e»Ki, that the takingour ch 1.1 s life away. wTiii be a circumttancefor which v, e v/ili be condemned, but forour p:u ts, we are perfectly eafy upon thathead ; we are fatisfied it is lefs cruelty totake the child with us, even fuppcfmg a ftateof annihilation, as fo ne dream of, than toleave her friendlefs in the world, expofedto ignorance and mifcry : now in order toobviate fame cenfures which may proceedeither trout ignorance or malice, we thinkit proper to inform the world that wefirmly believe the exigence of an almightyGod, that this belief of ours is not an im-plicite faith, but deduced from the natureand reafon of things, we believe the exift-ence of an almighty Being, from the ron-fideration of his wonderful works; froma coniideration of his innumerable, celeflialand glorious bodies, from their wonderfulorder and harmony ; we have oKb fpentfome time in viewing thoft wonders whicharc to he fecn in the minute part of theworld, and that with great pleafure andf’atisfa&ion, Irom all which particulars, weare fatisfied, that finch amazing things couldnot pofllbly be without a firft-mover, with¬out®ut tlie exiflence of sn almighty Being ;and as we know the wonderful God to bealmighty, fo we cannot help believing, butthat he is alfo good, not implacable, notlike fueli wretches as men are, not takingdelight in themiferies of his creatures: forwhich resfon, we refign up our breathesunto him without any terrible apprehenfi-ons, fubmUting ourfelves to thofe wayswhich in his goodnefs he (hall pleafe toappoint after death : we alfo believe theexigence of unbodied creatures, and thinkwe have reafon for that belief, tho’ v/cdon’t pretend to know their way of fub-fifting, vre are not ignorant of thefe lawsmade terrorem, but leave the difpofalof our bodies to the wifdom of the Coronerand his jury, the thing being indifferent tous, where our bodies are laid, from whenceit will appear, how little anxious we areabout a hie jacct; we, for oiir parts, nei¬ther expeft nor defire fucli honours, but(hall content ourfelvcs with a borrowedepitaph, which we will infert in this paper.Without a name, for ever fdent dumb,Dud, a(hes, nought elfc within this tomb,Where we were born or bred matters not,Who were our parents or hath us begot,We were, but now are not, think no moreof us, 1For we are, fa you’ll be, turned to du(l.It is the opinion of naturalifts that ourbodies are at certain Itages of life com-pofed of new matter, lb that a great manypoor men have new bodies oftner thannew cloaths ; now, as divines are not ableto inform us which of thel’e feveral bodies(hall rife at the refurredtion, it is veryprobable the deceased body may be forever blent, as well as any others._ C RICHARD SMITH.£ BRIDGET SMITH.The Coroners Inquefl: for prifoners inthe King's Bench, fat on the body of theman, and brought him in felo de fe ; andthe Inqueft for the Mayor’s Liberty, fat onthe body of the woman and the child, andbrought in the woman lunatic, and that theman was guilty of wilful murder as to thechild.FINIS,