COMICAL HISTORYSIMPLE JOHNTWELVE MISFORTUNES,3 WHICH HAPPENED ALL IN TWELVE DATS AFTER THE UNHAPPYDAT OF HIS MARRIAGE.•>lr»$GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.COMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHN,AND HIS.j-TWELVE MISFORTUNES.t v J3TvumrvSimple John was a widow’s son, na d a coarse country weaver to his ntrade. He made nothing but such as fcanvas for caff bads, corn and coal ssacks, drugget and harn was the finest awebs he could lay his fingers to: he was ia great lump of a lang, lean lad, aboon pEax feet afore he was aughteen years £auld ; and, as he said himsel, he grew Ksae fast, ariowas in sic a hurry to be khigh, that he did not stay to bring a’shis judgment with him, but yet he 4hoped it wmiM follow him, and he*would meet wi t as monv a ane does I3after they’re married. He had but aesister, and she had as little sense ashimsel’, she was married on Sleeky Wil¬lie, the wylie weaver; his mither was arattling rattle-scull’d wife, and they liv¬ed a’ in ae house, and every body heldthem as a family of fools. When Johncame to man’s estate, to the age oftwenty-one years, he told his mitherhe would hae a wife o’ some sort, eitheryoung or auld, widow or lass, if theyhad but heads and lips, tongue and tail,he should tak them, and weel I wat,mither, quoth he, they’ll get a lumpingpenny-worth o’ me, get me wha will.His mither tells him o’ the blackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, wha had threedoughters, and every ane o’ them hadsomething, there was Kate, Ann, andGirzy, had a hundred merks the piece.Kate and Ann had baith bastards.Girzy the eldest had a humph back, ahigh breast, baker legged, a short wryneck, thrawn mouth, and goggle ey’d;a perfect iEsop of the female kind, withas many crooked conditions within aswithout, a very lump of loun-like ill-nature,- row’d a' together* as if she had4been nine months in a haggis, a se¬cond edition of crook backed Rich¬ard, an old English King, that wasborn with teeth to bite a’ around a-bout him, and y-et the wight gaed madto be married.John’s mither told him the roadwhere to go, and what to say, and ac¬cordingly he sets out wi’ his Sunday’scoat on, and a’ his braws, and a pairof new pillonian breeks o’ his mither’smaking. In he comes and tells hiserrand before he would sit down,says good day to you, goodman, whate you a’ doing here ? I am wantingwife, an’ ye’re a flesher, and has a guderting aside you, my mither says yen sair me or ony body like me, whatsay ye till’t, goodman ? How monydouchters hae yep Are they a’ mar¬ried yet P I fain wad tak a look o’ someo’ them gin ye like.A wow, said the goodwife, come inby, honest lad, and rest ye, an ye bea wooer sit down and gie’s a snuff—-A deed, goodwife, I hae nae mills butniy mith^r’s, and it’s at hame.—Wharewin ye, I’se no ken ye P I wat, quothBfie, my name’s Jock Sandyman,and theyca’ me Simple John the sack weaver.I hae nac tocher but my loom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle, pat, a brass pan, twapigs, four cogs, and a candlestick, agood cock, a cat, twa crrocks new be¬gun to lay; my sister Sara is marriedon Sleeky Willie the wylie weaver, andI maun hae a hagwife or my mitherdie, for truly she’s very frail, and onyharl o’ health she has is about dinnertime ; what say ye till’t, goodman ? canve buckle me or not ?tiGoodman, A dear John, ye’re in anunco haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame wi’ ye P they’re a’ there beforeye, which o’ them will ye tak ?Hout, tout, says John, ony o’ themwill sair me, but my mither says there istwa o’ them has fauts. And what istheir fauts? says the goodwife. Hout,said John, it’s no meikle faut, but Xdinna like it, they got men or theywere married. And what shall I do wi’them P said the goodman.John, A deed, goodrnan, as ye’re avdealing among dead beasts and livingbeasts, I wad put them uwa amongGither beasts, or gin ye be aun ony pen¬ny, let somebody tak them up o’ des¬perate debt, 1 sud flie the fykes fraethem, they anger’d you, and sham’dyou baith with their bastards, a wheendaft jades it gets men or they be mar¬ried, and bairns or they get bridals.Goodu'j'e. A wat weel that’s true,lad.Girzy. A weel, John, then, will yetak me; I hae nae bastards ; how willyou and I do ?John. I wat na gin ye be able to get ia bastard, yet ye may hae some waur 'faut; but ye maun be my pennyworth, <for ye’re unco little, and I’m o’er muc- «kle, and gin ye and I Avar ance cardedthrough ither, avc may get bonny weanso’ a middlen mak. I hae nae fauts toye, but ye hae a high breast, a humphback, a short neck, and high shouthers, ,the hands and legs may do, tho’ your 1mouth be e wee to the tae side it willlie weel to the rock, and I hae a han-tle o’ toAv to spin, Avill be baith sarks Iand sacks till us, ye’ll be my soncydauty, up and down ; a perfect beauty,wi’ cat’s yelloAv een, black brous, andTred lips, and your very nose is a purplecolour; ye hae nae fauts at a’. Now,whan will we be married?Girzy. Ha, ha, John lad, we maunthink on that yet.John. What the yeltow, lass, shouldna ye be ready whan I’m ready, andevery body says that the woman’s ayeready.Goodman. YV11 hae to come backand bring somebody wi’ you, and we’llgree about it, and set the day whanye’ll be married.John. A weel, goodman, I’ll tell mymither o’t, and come back on Monon-day, and we’ll hae a chappin o’ ale, androasted cheese on the chance o’t, butI maun hae a word o’ the bride out by,to convoy me, and a quiet speak to her-sel about it.Goodwife. A wow na, John, thedaft loons will laugh at you, and she’llthink shame, gang ye out by, andshe’ll speak to you through the gavelwindow.Out goes John, and the bride, andher twa sisters goes to the windowwithin to hear the diversion, and what8he would say. Now say3 John, Girzymy dear, my braw pretty woman, an yehe in earnest, tell me, for by my suthI’m no scorning.Girzy. Indeed, John, I’m very will¬ing to tak ye, but ye needna.tell everybody about it.John. Then gie me a kiss on that.He shoves his head in at the window,making a lang neck to win down toher, and she stood on a little stool towin up to him. O, cries he, an yewere good flesh I could eat you a’, I likeyou sae weel; it’s a pity there is sic ahard wa’ between us, I’se tell my mithersae bonny as ye are : O, gie me anitherkiss yet, and then I’ll go. One of hersisters standing by in a dark corner,gets baud o’ a cow’s head, which want¬ed a’ the skin but about the mouth,and shoves it towards his mouth, whichhe kissed in the dark. O, cries he, yourmouth be cauld since I kissed ye last,and I think ye hae a beard, I saw naethat before, or is’t wri’ spinning tow thatmaks your mouth sae rough at e’en.Hame he com s, and tells his mitheruie speed and properties of the marriage.9All things was got ready, and next weekSleeky Willie the weaver and him cameto gree the marriage, and stay ail nightwith the bride, and teach John goodmanners, for when John was hungry,he minded his meat mail* than his goodbehaviour, and he never was fu’ tillthe dish was tume. Willie the Weaverwas to tramp on his fit when hethought he had suppet aneugh ; so allthings being agreed, upon short andeasy terms, and the wedding day set,they were to be three times cried onSunday, and quietly married on Mon¬day, neither piper nor fiddler to beemploy’d, but sweith awa haine frae theMinister, and into the bed amang theblankets; ha, ha, cried John, that’s thebest o’t a’.Now every tiling being concludedand proposed, the supper was brought,a large fat haggis, the very smell wada done a hungry body gude, but Johnhad only got twa or three soups, untilone of the butcher’s meikle dogs tramp¬ed on John’s fit, which he took to bethe weaver, and then he would eat naemair. After supper they went to bed£) •10John and the weaver lay together, anothen he abused the weaver fortramping sae soon, which he denied ;but O, said John, there's a hantle o’tleft, and I saw whare it was set j they area’sleeping, I’ll go rise and tak a soup o’tyet. Aye, een do sae, said sleeky Wil¬lie, and bring a soup to me too. Awaythen John goes to the army, and laysto the haggis, till his ain haggis couldhaud nae mair; then brought some toSleeky Willie; but, instead of going tothe bed where he was, goes to the bedwhere the bride and the twa sisters lay,they being fast asleep, speaks slowly,Will ye tak it, will ye tak it; but theymaking no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Willie’smouth, but instead of doing’ so, he putsa great spoonful close into one of theirbacksides. Sleeky Willie hears a’ thatpast, comes out the bed, and sups outthe remainder, and sets up the dishwhere it was, leaves the amry door opento let the cats get the blame of sup¬ping the haggis, and away they go tobed; but poor John cpuld get nae sleepfor drouth ; up he gets in search of theIVwater-can, and finding an empty pit¬cher, puts in his hand to find if therewas any water in it, but finding nanehe closed his hand when it was withinthe pitcher, and then could not itout, goes to the bed and tells SleekyWillie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door, and gcout to a knocking-stane that stood be¬fore the door, and break it there, toget out his hand, and not to make anoise in the house. So out he goes,and the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the haggis laidto her backside, was out before him,rubbing the nastiness (as she took it tobe) off the tail of her sark, and shebeing in a louting posture, he took herfor the knocking-stane, and comes owerher hurdies with the pitcher, till it flewin pieces about her, then off she runswith the fright, round a turf-stack,.andinto the house before him. John camein trembling to the bed again, wi’ thefright, praying to preserve him, for sic aknocking-stane he never yet saw, for itran clean awa when he broke the pigi jo on it.18Now John was furnished in a houseby his father-in-law; the bed, the loom,heddles, treadles, thrumbs, reed, andpirn-wheel, was a’ brought and set upbefore the marriage, which was kepta profound secret; so that John gotthe first night of his ain wife, and hisain house at ae time. So on the nextmorning after the marriage, John andhis wife made up some articles, howthey were to work, and keep house ;John was to keep the house in meat,meal, fire, and water ; Girzy was to makthe meat, and keep the house in clothes;the father-in-law to pay the rent forthree years; they were to hae nae ser¬vants, until they had children; andtheir first child was to be a John, afterits ain Daddy, get it wha will, if ahoy; and if a girl, Girzy, after its ainmivny, as ye said wha wrought bestMt.MISFORTUNE I.Then she ordered John to rise andbegin his wark, by putting on a fire,and to tak the twa new pigs and gangto the well for water. No sooner hadJohn opened the door, and gone outwith a pig in every hand, than a’ theboys and girls being gathered in a crowdto see him, gave a loud huzza: and clap¬ping their hands at him, poor John,not knowing what it meant, thought itwas fine sport, began to clap his handstoo, and not minding the twa pigs,clashes the tane against the tither, tillbaith went to pieces, and that was acheerful huzza to baith young and auldthat was looking at him ; Girzy thewife draws him into the house, and tohim she flies with the wicked wife'sweapon, her Tongue and Tangs, andmade his ribs to crack, saying, “ Theytold me ye war daft, but I’ll ding thedaffing out o’ ye, I’ll begin wi’ you asI’ve a mind to end wi’ you.” PooJohn sat crying and clawing hisfoea“ Jtia, ha/‘ gaid he' nae bairn splay to be married, 1 find that already.”His mother-in-law came in and madeup peace, went to a cooper, and gotthem a big wooden stoop to carry intheir water. ' ,yn *MISFQRTUNE II.bwoio e hi b-.tQflfng gnroif ehrg ban g/udNext morning, John was sent to theFlesh-market an errand to his Father-in-law, who gave him a piece of fleshto carry home, and as he was coiningout of the market, he saw six or sevenof the flesher dogs fall on and worry ata poor country colly do|;; “Justice, jus¬tice,” cries John to tire dogs, “ ye’rebut a wheen unmannerly rascals, thatfa’s a’ on ae poor beast, heth ye shoulda’ be put in the toubuoth, and ta’en tothe bailies, and hanged for, the like o’that; its perfect muxdei;;” and in heruns amongst the dogs, “ And be hang¬ed to you a’ thegither, Wbat’s the quar¬rel? What’s the quarrel P John flingsdown the flesh he had vftryjpg, andgrips the colly, who took John for an15enemy too, and bitfs his hands till theblood followed, he whole of the tykescomes a’ on poor John, till down hegoes in the dirt amongst their feet, andone of the dogs runs oft' with the ftesh,so John went hame both dirty apt]bloody and without his flesh, told Gir^yhow it happened, who applied her oldplaister, her Tangs anft Tongue, ipafteJohn to curse the very minister thatmarried them, and wished he inigbfcne’er do a better turn.iifi 'Misfortune hi.890s erfNext morning, John was sent to thewell with the great stoup to bring inwater for breakfast; and as he was pul¬ling the stoup out of the well, in he tum¬bles and his head down, the well beingnarrow, he couldna win out: some peo¬ple passing by chance heard the slunge,cried, and ran to his relief, hauled himopt half dead, and helped him into thehouse ; and after getting h dry sark, hewas comforted with the old plaisterher Tongue and hard Tangs.$MISFORTUNE IV.Next day, she says, John, I m .3:.go to the market myself, for if you goyou’ll fight wi’ the dogs, and let themrun awa wi’ ony thing you buy: seethat ye put on the pat, hae’t boilingagain I come hame. John promisedweel, but performs very badly. She’sno sooner gone, than he puts on thenew pat without any water in it, anda good fire to make it boil, and awayhe goes to the unhappy well, fills hisstoup, and sets it down to look at aparcel of boys playing at cat and dog,they persuaded John to take a game wi’them, on he plays, till ane o’ the boyscries, Hey John, yonders your Girzycoming. John runs into the housewi’ the water, and the pat being red~'hot on the fire, he tumes in the cauld'water into it, which made the pat fletf1all in pieces, just as she was enteringthe door. John runs for it, and sheruns after him, crying catch the thief,some persons stopped him; she comesop, and then she laboured him all theway hame, and he crying, “ O Sirs, yef see what it is to be married!” TheImither-in-law had to make up peaceagain, and he promised good behaviour1 in time to come.MISFORTUNE V.,{ J >a iU il]On the next morning she sent him toI the wrater to wash some cow’s puddingsI and turn them on a spindle, showingI him how he was to do or he went away.I John goes to the water very willingly,and as he turned and washed them, he!i laid them down behind him, where onei of his father-in-law’s big dogs stood,and ate them up as fast as he laid themdown, till all was gone but the verylast ane, Avhich he carried hame in hishand, crying like a child, and under¬went a severe tost of the old plaisterbefore any mercy Avas shoAvn.MISFORTUNE VI.His father-in-law, next day, sent himaway to bring home a tat calf he hatlbought in the country, and tied up themoney in a napkin, Avhich he carried inhis hand for fear he should lose it. B e-ing very Aveighty, as it was all in half¬pence, and as he Avas going alongst abridge, he meets a man running after ahorse, Avho cries to John to stop thehorse; John meets him on the top ofthe bridge, and when he would not bestopped for him, he knocks the horseon the face with the napkin and themoney, so the napkin rave, and most ofthe half-pence flew over the bridge inthe water, which made poor John gohome crying very bitterly for his loss,and dread of the old plaister, which hegot very sickerly.MISFORTUNE VIl.On the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he couldfind any of it in the water, and there hefound some ducks SAvim'ming, and duck¬ing doAvn with their heads below thewater, as he thought, gathering up hismoney, he kills o^e of them, and rips19her up, but found none of it in her gutsor gabbie ; then says he, they have beenbut looking for it, I’ll go do as they did,strips off his clothes and leaves them onthe bridge, goes in a ducking, in whichtime, a ragman came past, and took a-way all his clothes. So he went homenaked to got a bath of the old plaister.! MISFORTUNE VIII.i VThe next morning, she sent him to afarm-house for a pigful of buttermilk,and as he was returning through thefields, the farmer’s bull and another bull; were fighting ; the farmer’s bull being1 i ke to loss, J ohn runs in behind him, andsets his head to the bull’s tail, on pur¬pose to help him to push against theother; but the poor bull thought Johnwas some other bull attacking him be¬hind, fled aside, and the other bull camefull drive upon John,pushed him down,broke the pig, and spilt the milk. Se. John went home to get his auld plais¬ter, which began to be a usual diet tohim, and so he regarded it the less.< i90•*>&• V"- M iS' •i ■ :jMISFORTUNE IX.. . ; . ? ’His mother-in-law, with several auldwitty wives, held a private council onJohn’s conduct, and bad luck, and con¬cluded he was bewitched. John wasof the same opinion, and went to theMinister, and told him he was the causeof a’ his misfortunes, ca’d him a war-lock to his face, and said, he had putsuch a black bargain into his hand, thathe was ruined for ever; insisted eitherto unmarrv them again, or send deathand the bellman to take her awa, forshe has a lump of mischief on her backand anither on her breast, and the restof her body is a clean de’il. The Min¬ister began to exhort him to peace andpatience, telling him that marriageswere made in heaven : “ ye’re a baistliar,” says John, “ for I was married inyour ain kitchen, and a’ the blackguardsin the town were there, an it had abeen a heaven they wadna win in, yettell me that matrimony was sic a happystate, but had ye gotten as mony wee!2\Id}pay’d skins as I hae gotten, ye wad akend what it was; ill chance on you, sirand out he goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes and breaking the Min-j ister’s windows for which he was caughtand put twa hours in the stocks, and atlast his lump of corruption came andrubbed his lugs, drew his nose, got himout, and drove him home before her,took a resolution never to set him aboutany business in time coming, but keephim on his loom.MISFORTUNE X.'Now she gave him no sleep all thatnight for scolding. John got up inthe morning lang or day7 and left his, Tormenter in bed, fell asleep upon hisloom wi’ the candle in his hand, and: so set the web, heddles, reed, and trea¬dle cords in a fire. By chance his oldViper looked out of the bed, or thewhole house had been gone. Up shegets, and with her cries alarmed theneighbourhood who came to h^r relief;Jonn underwent a dreadfulbut poorswabbing for this,*MISFORTUNE XLZBW fHi uOIflY/ 101 r.770I)fir// 2 loldCAfter the former hurry and beatingbeing overy his work being stopt, hewent to bed and slept a’ that day, andfollowing night. On the next day,having nothing to do, she sent him insearch of a hen’s nest, which had ta’enisome by-place to lay her eggs in : so aspoor John was in an auld kill searchinga’ about the walls, the kill-ribs broke,and down he goes with a vengeanceinto the logie, cutted and bruised him¬self in a terrible manner ; up he couldnot win, but had to creep out at thelogie below, scarce able to get hame,his face and nose all running of blood.In this condition she pitied and la¬mented for him very much, tied hissores and laid him in bed ; then satdown very kindly, saying, “ My dear,and my lamb', do Vou think there is onyof yout’ 1 sanbs broken ; and what partof you is san e t P Ami what will 1 get23to do good P “ C)h !” said he, “ Girzy,I’m a’brizzled atween the feet.” f'Are!( ye iudeedP” quoth she, “ then I wish! ye had broken your neck, that I mighta gotten anither, useless ae way, anduseless mac ways, upo’ my word, ye’sno be here, gang whare ye like.”jdJinS jboowmiow 1o gbarii 8BW daidwi «i doiflv ,to)bw aoato /bod ladlo JaoiMISFORTUNE XHL a/swlaNow, as poor John was turhed outo’ doors next morning, to go awa’ hirp-ling on a staff; one came and told himhis mother had died last night. Ohhoch! said J ohn, and is my mither cleanIdead! O an she wad but look downthrough the lift, and see how Frii guid¬ed this morning, I’m sure she wad senddeath for me too. I’m out o’ a mitherand out o’ a wife, out o’ my health and"I strength, and a’ my warklooms. Hisi mother-in-law came and pleaded forj; him: Haud youf tbhgue, mither, saidit Girzy,if ye kent what ail’d him ye wad-na speak about him, he’s useless, noworth the keeping in a house, but to ca’him to die like an auld beast at a dyke-!24side. Hout tout, co’ the auld wife, we'II |mak o’ him and he'll mend again. So bJohn got peace made up aftec a’, and jhe was easier mended than the burnt Wweb; got all his treadles and warklooms Iset in order, the wife’s tongue excepted,1which was made of wormwood, and therest of her body of sea water, which isalways in a continual tempest.So John appeals to a Jedburgh Juryif it be not easier to deal wi’ fools thanheadstrong fashious fouks; owns he hasbut an empty skull, but his wicked wifewants wit to pour judgment into it,never tells him o’ danger till it comesupon him, for his mother said he was abiddable bairn, if ony body had been talearn him wit.iH . rnooid'mw Voic/s ^fognyihsti(J foobfioh] bns omuo 7/nI-ui-vnbornFINIS.