THEAncient HifloryO FTHREE BONNETSIN FOUR CANTOS.EDINBURGH:Printed ia this pr?fent Ye^r 1793.THE PERSONS.^ C Father to Toukmn,Duniwhistle,^ w Bawiy,Joukum, in love 'with Rofie.Bristle, a Man cf Refolution*Bawsy, a •weaker Brother,Bard, a Narrator*Beef, Porter to Rofie,Ghaist, the Ghoji of Duniwhiftle,Rosie, an lieirefs.( 3 )ATALEOFrHR.EE BONNETS.CANTO I.BARD.meno* iiiettiecaoaghtitnonfence,r v i o heed thatch ping thin ; ca’d conicienceilnd by free-thiuking had the knack,pf jeering ilka woik it fpake :hnd a* a learned author -perks,Inipl ,y’d ii like a p-di of b aakr,I’o hide the r lewd and n.dl fluices,Whilk euh fl;pt down lor b.dth the^e ufes,rhen Duniwhiftle, worn with yearr,Kuo gawn the gate o! his forbears,I'ouimarded his three Ions to come,ilnd wait upon hirn in his room:jLde Briftle fteek the door: and fyne,|le thus began  *I Duniwhiftle. Dear bairns of mine,quickly maun fubmit to fate,knd leave you three a good eftate,4 A T A L E O PWhich has hern honcurably wt n,1Ard handed down fr>e lire to fon.But cla-g or claim for ages part :Mow that nvyv prove the laft,Here’s thre pern iffion Hornets for ye,"Which rui Great Gntchers wore before ye.And if ye'd h?e na man betray ye,Le: raething ever wile them Irae ye;But ktep the B- nnets on yowj heads,And hards frae hgning foolilh deed.And ye fliall never w-ant luch this gs,sk i! -ar ye be made of bv kin^s :But, u ye ever with them part.Feu fair \e’ll for your fohy tmart:Bare-headed then ye’ll look like inools.And dwindle down to filly tools.Haud up your hands now f*car and fay,As y e lha 1 anfwer cn a day ——Ye’il faithfullv ablerve my will,And a’ rs pren lies iuifii.BrifUe. My worthy ia her, ! liiall llnve.To keep vxtur name and fame alive.And neve* Ibr-w a laul tha’s dall^d.To gar touk take me for a baitmd:If e’er by me ye’rr cuk bey’d,Miav witches nightly on nie ride.JoukmM hae'er Hi. 11 dare by forceor guile,^his Boniiet aft no head to wile.For fic a bau , ...tempi Hi*11 tue.And ken t wa* b.got by y< uFlic, may 1 like a gypbe wander,Or my ttaiiy bitact turn pander.three R o NT n e r s. sBiwfy. May I be jybM by ;ireat and fma’,^nd kytch’d like ony tenuis ba’,Be the dfgrace of a’ my km.If e’er I with my bonnet twin.Bard No# foon as each h «■ gi’n his aith,The au'd man yiaided ud tis brei h,Was row’d in linen white <>s Imw,And to his fathers borne awa\B^t fcarcely he in mofs was rotien.Before his teft’ment was fo-gou^a,As ye Haall hear frae future fonnet.How J mkuvn linder’d wi’ ais do net*And bought fr.e fenidels Billy Biwfy,His to propine a giqlet lally,While worthy C ide, not lae doner’d,Preferv'es his Bonnet, and is honour’d,Thus Caracas aid betme;Tho’ by the fate of war ^ flive ;Hi? body only, lor h. and*No Roman power mid k or bind.With Bonnet on he • uldt-. fptke.His greatnefe girt his fetiers cra^k. .The victor did his triendfb a ctann,And lent him With new ies ha ne.But leave we Brilis and iiaiHe,And to our tale with ardoui flae.Beyond the hills where lang the billies,Hid b^cd up queys and kids and fi lies,And loughten many a blody bitiie,With thrives that jarne to It t their cittle :lhere liv’d a lafs kept rary-lhaws,And hdlei* ay about her nouie, t►6 ATALEOFWha at her table fed and ranted,With the ftout ale fhe never wanted.She was a winfome wench and waly,And ccu!d pnt on her claiths fu’ brawly,, ,Humble to ilka market-town,And drink and fight like a dragoon:Juft fic like her wha far aff wander’d,I o get herfelf weel Aiexaeder’d.Kofie had a word of meikle filler,Whilk brought a hantle o’ wooers till her.A.nang the reft young matter Jouk,She conquer d ae day \vi’ a look:Ftae that time forth he ne’<r could ftay^Ac hsme to mind his corn er h -y,But grew a beau, and did adronHimfelf with fifty bows of corn,f orby what he took on, to riggHim out with linen, flioon and wig.Snuff-boxes, fword-knots, canes and wafhes,And fweeties to beftowr on laffes,Cou’d neweft aiths genteeiy fwear,And had a courfe of flaws perquire :He drank and danc'd, and fighM to move.Fair Rcfie to accept his loveAfter dumb figns he thus began,And fpake his mind to’er like a man.j'oukrm. O take me Rofie to your arms,And let me revel o’er your charms ;If ye fay ra, 1 needna care,For ppes'or tethers rmuv- of hair.Pen knives or poo’s I minna need,'ihat minute ye fay na, I’m dead.T H R E F. B O N N E T S. 7O l-t me lie w''thin your breartA d at your dainty tazle feaft :Wrll do I like you ou 1 to finger,A d fit to her your ft '$ Sincer.Mhile on thus fui fide o’ he brae,Bt 1 'ocs to you. my 1 mbs I !1 lay ^Rfte l wm fwe-:t Si •, ye woo me fran*1 y,B :t a %our courtlh p f rs fae rankly,O ielfifli in retell, that Fm flead,My peffon leaft employs your head.Joukmm What ■ rfdttnaWsthisy.nurmak-•^Vhen your poor lover’s heart i- b: caking,(mgWith i'ttlc logic L ear, ftie w.That every thing you h*ve is you :Befides the beauties ot jour perlon,Thefe beds ot flowers you fet your a- e on,\our claiths. your lands, and tying pelf,A e eveiy ane you- ’very felf.And add freflr lufiure to thefe grac?;.With which adorn’d your faui and face is.Rofie, Ye fee n to h* e a loving flameFor me. and ham your native hame;That gais me ergh to truft you metkle.For hearyou fliou’d prove falfe and fickle.■ jonkum. 1 troth my rugged billy Brittle,Abou iris gen trie makes fic little,Tna it a body eon-tradiitt himfte s ready w th a dmk xo ftick him ,That we tries me of hame I vow.And"f in would I ve and ate with you.r' Bard Ob owing Jouk a .wee rate tipfy,Smirking reply’d the pauky giply.88 A T A L E OFRofie. I wad be veiy wae to fee,Mv lover tak the pet and die ;Wherefore I am inclin’d to eaie ye,And do what in me lies to pie (e ye :But fir ft ere we conclude the ps&ion,."Yon muft perform foine gallantTo prove the truth of what youV faid,Elfe, for you, lhail die a maidJoukum. My deareft jewel gie t a name,.That I may win both you and fame :Shall I gae fight with foreft bulls.Or cleave tfown troops with thicker fkali*.Or lhall I douk the deepeft fea.And coral pou for beads to thee ?Penty the Pope upon the nole,Or p-- upon a hundred beaus ?Rojte. In troth, dear lad. I wad be laith^To rifk your life, or do you (kaith.Only employ your canny fkill,To gain and rive your father s will,With the ccnfent of Brils and Bawfy,And I fhall in my bofom hawfe ye,Soon as the fatal Bonnets three,Are ta’en frae tfiem and gien to me,Joukum. Which to preferve I gied myaith!But now the caufe is life and death,I muft, or with the Bonnet patt,Or tw in with yon and break my heart;Sue,' tho’ the aith we took waa avvfu’,To keep it now appears unlawfu,T ien, love, I'll anfvver thy demands,And fly to fetch them to your hands.THREE BON N F. T S. 9Bard. I he famous jilt of PalellineThus drew the hooks o’er Samfon’s een,And gart him tell where lay his ftrength.Of which ihe twin’d him at the length.Then gied him up in chains to rave,And labour like a ga ey Have :But Rofie, mind, when growing hair,His lofs of pith 'gan to repair,He made of thoufaads an example,By crulhing them beneath their temple,*^>> ' (Sil '^>1 i<£>>CANTO IT.Bard. 'TP He fuppet fowin cogs and bannocksStood coolingonthfcfoleo’winnocksAnd, cracking at the Wuftlin g’avels.The wives fat becking of their navels,When Jouk his blither Brittle found.Fetching his ev’ning wank aroundA fcore of ploughmen of his ain.Who blythly whittled on the plain.Jouk three times congee’d. Brittle aues,Then (hock hand, and thus begins.'Briflie. Wow, brither jouk, where hae yeI fcarce can trow my looking een, (been:1"V e’re grown fae braw: now wtird’s defendtneOin thax I had nae maift mifkead ye.And where gat ye that braw bjuc ftringing.That’s at your houghs and flion’dershingingf10 A T A L E 0 FYe look as fpiu(h as one that’s wooing,1 ferly, lad. what ye’ve been doing.Joukutn. My very much refpecl blither.Should we hide ought frae ane anithrr,And not, when warm’d with the fame blood,Confult ilk ane anither’s good ;And be it kend ty’e, my deiign.Will orofit prove to me and mine.Briftli. \ nd brother, froth it much commendsYour virtue, thus to love your triends,1 makes me blyth, for aft [ faid,le were a clever metd’d lad,Joukum. And .f'.e. 1 hope will ever provenIt ye-befriend me in my love :For Rofie, bonny, iich and gay,And fwtet as Rowers in June or May,Her gear I'll get, her fweeis 1’il rifle,If ye’ll but yield me up a trifle,Promife to <io’t, and yc'fc be free,Vl7ith ony thing pertains to me.Brijlle. I fang to anf er your demand,And never (hail for trill siland.‘Joukum. Tnen fhe defres, as a propine,Tneie Bonnets, Bawdy’s, yours and mine,;Aid well I wat thaj’s nae great matte!,it I fae eafrly can get h r,Brijile Ha, ha! ye Judas, are ye there?Tue 0 - Men nor fire neer get mair.Is that the trifle that ye ipoke of i*Wha this k ye, fir, ye iri k a mock of ?Ye filly maniworn leant-of grace,Swith let me never lee your face.three BONNETS. 11■Seek my auld Bonnet aff my kead.'Faith that’s a bonny ane indeed.!IRequire a thing I’ll part with never;She’s get as foon a Up o’ my Ever,,Vile whore and jide, the woody hang h»r.: Bard. Thus faid, he faid, nae mair for anger,iBut curs’d and baa’d, and was nae far,iFrae trading Jouk analog the glar.I While Jook with language glib as ooUe,I Right pawkily kept aff a toolie.1 Well maiked with a wedder’s fkin,i Although he w=is a tod within.1 He huHi’d and ha’d, and with a cant,! Held forth, a^ he had been a faint,1 And quoted trsts to piove we’d better,’ Part with a fma’ for a greater.Jcukum. Ah! bi ither, may the furies rack mej If 1 mean’d ill, but ye miftak me ;' But gin your Bonnet’s fie a jewel, ^Pray gie’t or keep it, fir, as you will,Since your auld fafbion’d fancy rather,Inclines till’t than a hat and feather;j But 1 11 go try ray brither Bawfy,I Poor man, he’s nae fae daft and fancy,i With empty pride to crook his mou,j And hinder his ain good like you ;I If he and 1 anree, ne'er doubt ye,I We’ll make n . bargain up without ye ; *Syne your braw Bonnet and your noddle, Will hardly baith be worth a bodle.Bard. At this bauld Briftle’s colour chang’d,j He Iwore on Ucfe to be reveng’d,12 A T A L E O FFor he began now to be flied,She’d wile the honours frae his head,Syne with a ‘fern anc canker’d lojk,Fie thus reprov’d his brother Jauk.Brijtle. rhou vile difgrace of our forbearsWha lang with valiant dint of weirs.Maintain d their right ’gainft a’ intiujfionsOf pur auld faes the Rolycrucians,Doft thou defign a laft to catchOs in a girn with this bafe match.And for the hauding up thy pride,Upon thy brither s riggins ride :1’il fee you hang’d, and her the githe?.As high as Hainan m a tether,Ere 1 with my ait.; Bannet quay,Fcr any harrow’d beaver har,Whilk h as ft oft e takes the fikees.Maun wear or no juft as ihe like. :Then let me hear nae mair about her,For if je dare again to mutter,Sic vile propofals in my heating.Ye need nae ti uft to my forbearing;For foon my beard wili tak a low.And 1 lhall crack your crazy pow.Bard. This laid, brare Bniile i.aid naetnair,But ct ek’d fis Bonnet with an air.Wheel'd round with gloomy brows & muddy.And lett his brithex in a ftcrudy.THREE BONNETS.CANTO III.Bard. VJ OWSol wi’hislangwhipgaecracks1^1 Upon his neighering coolers backs.To gar ihem tak th’ Olympian Brae,Wi’ a cart la^e of bleezing day ;The country hind ceafes to fnore,Bmgs fred his bed, unlock5; the doer,Hib bladder rooms, and gicsa rift,Then tenrijy furveys the lur,And, weary of his wile and Bass,To their invbnce prefers his elaes.Scarce had tile lark lorfook her neft.Whan J uk, wiia had got little reft.For thiakr g on his p’or and laUie,Got up to gan^ and deal wi' B iwiie:Away faft o’er the bent he gade.And tard him d ,z ng on ho bed,Hi- blanksts creilhy, foul his fark,His curtains trimd with ipi-:er‘a wark ;Soot draps hang frae h'S root ana kipples,Hu flo r was o‘ tobacco fpitiles:Yet on the antlers ofa deer,Hang mony an auld claymoie and fpear.With coat of iron and targei jufty,Inch thick ol dirt and unco ruby :Tnough appear d to Ihow his B by.That he was lazy, poor anti lilly,And wadi a mak to great budle,Abcut his boiuiet as did tfiillie.I4 A T A L E 9 FJouk three times rugged at his flioulder,At Jangrun, Bawfy rak‘d his een,And cries, What«s tha;? What do yoa mean?Then looking up he fees his brither.Bawfy. Good-morrow Jouk, what bringsYou re early up, -as l‘m a Tinner (you hitherI fecoly rife before my dinner:Well, wh.at‘3 ye‘r news, and how gaes a‘ ?Ye‘ve been an ucno time awa!»Jovkum Bawly, I m blyth to fee you well.For me, thank God, I keep me heal :Get up, get up, ye lazy mart,I have a feerct to impa’t,Of which, who- I give yon an inkling,Ii will fee bait your lugs a tinkling.Bard Straight Ba Uy rifts, quickly dreflesWhile halle his youky mind luiprdfss :bJ >w rigg‘d, atd morning drink brought in,Tnus did fl e-gabbet Jouk begin., oukum My worthy bmher, well I wate,O er fee kl els is your wee ell ate.For lie a me k'e favd as yours,Tnat to things greeter higher towers ;B it ye ly'■loitering here at hamg,Neglelbir baith of wealth and aame,Tho\ I laid, ye have a mind,Tnaf is tor higher things defigt^d.Bawfy. Thrit very tiue-, thanks to the Ikies,But how to get them there it lies.Joukum. Ml tell ye Baws,- -I ve hid a p.ctThat only want your rafting vote.THREE BONNETS. 15And if yeT g:e't your bread is baleen ;But firft accepr of this love-taken ;Here tak this gowd and never want,Enough to gar you drink and rant.;And this is but an arle^enny,To what I afterward deiign ye ;And in return I’m fure that I,Shall naithing fe k that ye‘U deny.ij/rw^.AndtrothcowJouk, andneither willlOr alter never cv me Billy ;If I refufe, wae light upon me,Thi* gowd, O vow! ‘ns wondrr brnny.Jovtum. Ay, that /t is ‘tis e‘n tt e a:Tna: gars the pi ugh ot living diaw.‘Tt Gowd g-rs iogers feight the ‘fiercer,W tiiOui ir preaching \v .d be fcarcer ;‘Ti gowd that '- akesthe great mtn witty,A id puggy lalles ft iv and pretty ;Wi hout it lames nice wad dwindle,Down to a wife that fnoves a (pi die.But to the point, and wave D gttffion,I make a free and plain con! {Tun,That.l‘m io love, and as 1 laid,Dc-mand from you a little aid,To gun a bride that eithly can,Make me lot-, bkfl and you a man :Give ire your Bonnet o prefentMy miftrels with,- a vl your c inTent,To rive the Dalt and fafh.on’d deed,Thai b;<is ye wear it on you head.u gofh! Ogofh! then Jotk have at her,If that be a* ‘tis nae great matter.»16 A T A L E OFyoK/fofl/.Thefegranted, (hedemandsnaemakTo let us in her riches (h^ir ;Nor (hall our herds as heretofore,Rin aff with ane anither‘s (tore.Nor ding out ane auither's barns,When they forgather'mang the kairns^But freely may drive up and down,And fell in iika market down,B.longs to h£r,—-which foe n you 11 fee.If ye ll be wiie, beUng to me :And when.that happ*; day (hall come,My honed B wfy, there's my thumb,That*Vthile i breathe 111 ne er beguile ye,Yrfe baith get gow d. and be a Bailey-haivjy-. Kai'h Jouk, 1 fee but Buie (kaithIn bj< akin of a ‘enielefs ai:h,Ttat is impost by doited dads,(To pleafe their whinis) on thoughtlofs lads,hiy B nnet! welco'Tte to my Bonnet!And mtikfe good may ye mak on it,Our batherh Will hfe make nae din,Tiip« Rode (I tmid applet behin ;B it fay, does Billy B idle ken,This your d dign to mak us men ?Joukum. Ay, that'he does, but the d (Fafs,Bca s a heart-hatred to the lafs,And rattles out a hantl-e dories,O blood and dirt and ancient glories,Meaning fc tit feuds that u>‘d to be,Between ©urs and her family ;Bms like a blockhead that hedl ne4er,Twin with his Bonnet for a her Gear;THREE BONNETS. 17Bat you and I conjoin'd c^n dii g him,And. by a vote, to rtafo i bring mm j' he fl iad cl fe, ‘tis unco eith,T < rive the left meat fpite o s teetli.And f^ar him ply, for a hrs clavers,T ) lift his B oner to our Beavers.BawfyTritn let the doof delicti? in drudgingWha> caufe have we to ten his grudging ;T in R )fy‘s ted on the fellyou and I be well ourfellsB ird Thus Jock and R iwfy wrere agreed^And Bnfs man yield, it was decreed.Thus far I‘ve fumg in Highland ftrains,Of Jonk s armour and pawky pains,To gain his end with ilka brither,Sae oppofite to ane anither ;Of B.iftle’s hardy refoiution.And hatred to the Rofycrucians;Of Bawfy, put in flavery neck-iaft.Seliing his Bonnet for a breakfart,What follows on‘t, of gain cr ilciith,I II teii when we hae tacen our breath,.CANTO IV.Bard. V "JOW toon as e‘er the Will was torn,1^1 JoukwithtwaB mjietsmn the morn,Frae fairyland faft bang d away,/l he p.i ize at Rofy‘s fee1: to lay ;Wha fteely when he did a'ppeat.About his fuccefs ‘gan to ipeir.Joukum Here bonoy lab. your humble ftivePixients you with tbeHhings you crave^i,R A T A L E OFThe rveff W- 1 and B nnets twa.Which makes the third worth nought ara,Our power ei en op, now I demand,Yoor promised love, and eke your hand.Bard. Rofie fmihd to fee the lad outwitted,A t* B nne;‘s to the fl mes committed,I mediately an avvfu iound,A' me «ad thought, rile frae the ground ;And fvne appear'd a ih l.vart Ghaift,W hale ftern and angry lor ks amadlUnhoord their fails—(baking they faw,Him frae the fire the Bonnets draw ;d hen ca e to Jouk and with twa drugs,E::c eas’d the ieng;h of baith hts lugs.And (aid Ghaifl. Be a’ thy days an afs,And kackney to this cunmng lafs:But for fhete Bonnets 'll preferve them,For bairns unborn that wi1! deferve them.Bard. With that he van (h’d irae their ee ay6 nd leit poor Jouk wi’ breeks not ciean.He (hakes, while lv lie rams and capers,And ca’s the viiion m u lit but vapouts :Bubs o’er his checks aod gab wi’ ream,Tnl he beiieves’t to be a dream :Syne to the clofet leads the way,to toup him up with ufqpebae.Rojie. Now, bonny lad, ye may be free.To handle ought pertains to me;And ere the fun, though he be dry,Has driven down the wefthn (ky,To drink his wamefa’ of the i'ea,THREE BONE T S* 19There’s be but ane of you and me.In marriage ye fhall hae iny hand ;But I maun hae the foie command.In Fairyland to few and p'anr,An^ to fend there for ought I want.Bard A7, ay, cries Jouk, all in a fire,An * fifpning into ftrong defireJoukurtu Come hade thee, let us fign and fealAnd let my billies gae to the diel.Bard Here it wad make o'er hng a tale,To tell how meikle cakes and ale.And he:f and broe, and gryce and geefe,And pies a* running o‘er wi creeih.Was ferv‘d upon the wedding-Ubie,To mak the lads and laflfes able,To do, ye ken, what we think fhame,(rho* ilka ane does«t; to gie‘t a name.But true it is, they foon were buckl'd,And foon (he made poor Jouk a cuckold.And play*-! her bawdy fports before himWith cheils that card not tippence tor him,Befides a Rotycrucian trick,She had a dealing with Auld Nick;Ai.d, whene‘er Jouk began to grumble,auIu Nick in the neift room wau rumble.She drank, and fought, and fpent her gear.With dice, and felling a* the mare.Thus living like a Pdzrs get,She ran herieli fae deep in deb-,ay borrowing money at a‘ hands,t iat yearly income of her land;;.Scarce pa d the im'reit of her binds.20 A TALE OFJouk, 3v ca'd wile behind the handyThe doffing of hi« doings f <nd ;0 er late he ttow began to lee.T^e rum of his family :Bu paft relief laird in a midden.He's now oblig'd to do her bid 'en.Away with ftrift command he s lent,T > f airyland to lift the rent.A'd with him many a Catterp llar,T- rug frae Br.fs and Biwfy li ler;Fur h r braid tab!? maun be ferv‘d,T o‘ Fairy-fowk fhcu'd a‘ be Halv’d.J uk, thus lur oundei with his guards,.Now plunders hay flacks, brrns, and yai ds,I'liey drive the nowt frae Briftle‘s fauld,V* hile he can nought but ban and fcakl.Brijile Vtle Hive to a huff-y iil begotten.By manv dads, with clips haf rotten,Vv e n na for honour of my mither,1 Cmu d na think ye were my brithgrJouk Dear bri^r, why this ruderefl.aionLctu to be greatTu* for protetBon jT c Petereueans, bloody beails,That gar h uk lik the dowp of priefts,EUe on a b; ai der, like a haddock.Be broolied, fprowiag hke a paddock,Theie mouflers. iarg or now had coit.e.With faggots, u-z, and tuck r * drum.And iwin'd you of your wea th an lives,Svhe, without (peering,-""- your wives,Had noi the Rofycrucian flood,Tue bulwark of your rights and b;ood;THREE BONNETS. 21And ■ et rorfooth ye girn and gramme.And w:th a gab unthanfii mumbleOut many a black nnworthy curie.When Kofie t ils ye dr w \our pucfe;\\he flie s lae gen roi fl con ent,Wirh not aboon thirty per cent.Briftie D nn you and her tho‘ now I m blaoI‘m hopetu vet to lee the day,I‘ll g jr ye biith repei t that e er,Y* reav‘J by force away iny gear.Without, or thanks, or making price.Or even fpeeri; £ my advice.Joukum. Peace gouk, we naething do at ac,But by the letter of the la * :Then nae m ir wiift ycur din torment us,-Grov.l ng ike ane non compos mentis,^Elle Hofie iflue may a wnt,Tu tye ye up b i:h hand and fr.And dun emt ye but me t or diinkTi l ve be waiv'd, ard die in liinkBara T usj i kindB in le when they metWith lie to aw language ither treat.fur> gi ws in Bridle's veins jAud the* h r B mutt ite reiams,'y ec on his c’ it he mav not cock it,But in a cofi t fiole maun lock it.Bate he^deu, i,iu> he een knocks under;And lets them drive avtay the plunder.Safe h. ve l leer., bdide a t^wei22 A T A L EOFWhile he waa fliaw i*is fangs and rige,W>th booilefs bi angling in his cage.Now follows that we take a peep,Of B-wlv looking like a fheep,By Briftie hared and difpis‘d,By Jouk and Rofic as little pris‘d.Soon as the horfe had heard his brither,Joukum and Rofe were prick‘d the gither,Away they fcour o’er bight and how.For fidging tain what’eer be dow,Counting what things he now did mifter,That wad be gi en him by his lifter.Like {hallow bards wha think they fiee,Becaufe they live fax ftories high.To lome poor Jifeleis lucubration,Peifixes fleeching dedication,And blythly dream they‘ll be reflor‘d.To ale-houfe credit by my lord.Thus Bawty s mind in plenty row‘d,While he thought tn his promis'd gowd.And baiieylhip, which he with fines,Wad male like the Weft-lnd'a ni nes,Arr-ves, with future greatnefs dizzy,Ca s Whereas Meif Jouk ?Bwf. --Meft Jouk is bify.Bawfy. My I^ady Rofie, is {he ar leifure ?beef. No, Sir, my Lady‘s at he» pieafme.Baufy i watt tor her, or him, go {hew--Beef. And pray ye, Mafter, wha are you?Bawfy. Upo’ coy faul this porter's fawfy ;Sin an, go teii my name is Bawfy,THREE BONNETS. 23Their brither who made up the marriageBeef and fo { thought it by your carriage.Between your houghs gae clap you: gr iding,Swith hame and teaft upon a fpelding,tor the e’s nae rum beneath this roof,T entertain a iimple coof.The like of you, that nain can truft,Whi to your aih htve been uujuft.Bard. This laid, he dadded to the yace,And left poor Bawfy in a fret,Wha loud growl’d, aud made a din,That was o’erheard by a’ within.C^ioth Hole to J -'k, Come let’s away.And fee what’s yon makes a’ this fray,A -ay they went, and law the creature,Bair runkling il’.a filly feature,Of his dull ph z. with gun* and glooms.Stamping and bung at is thumbs.Tht.y tented him a little while,Then came fml on him with a fmile,Which loon g ir‘ him forget the torture,Was rai id wi hm him by the porter.S e will a fucking weanie yell,But (h ike a ra tie or a bell,|lt hauas its tongue—Let that alane.It to its yameri- g fa’s again : '.L It up a fang, aud ft light its fern,To laugh with tears into its eeu.T 1 us eithL anger’d, eithly pleas’d.Weak B.vvfy lang they tantahez'd,With proiinfes right wide extended,[The ne’er perform’d ,nor ne’er intended :24 A T A x: E O F. &e. 'But now and then when they did need hino,A fupper and a pint they gied hiir,T iat done, th^y hie nae mir to Uy,And fcarceiy ken hina the neift day.P or fallow, now this niony a year.With lome faint hope, and rourh of fear,He had been wreftling with his fate,A drudge to Joukum and his mate;Willie Brittle faves his minly look,Re.iardlefs baith of Role and Jouk ;Maintains right queitly ’yond the cairns,His honour, confcience, wi^e and bairns,Jouk and his rumdgary wife,Drive on a drunken gaming life.*Caufe fober they can ?fet no reft.For Nick and Duniwhiftle’s ghaift,Wha in ihe gat rets often to »ly.And fhore them with a bloody gully.t’jus have 1 lung in hanuet rh me,A fang that fcorns the teeth of time,\ -t modeftly I hide my name,Admiribg virtue mair than fame.But tent ye wha defpife infhuchon,And give my wark a wrong couftruction,Frae ’hind my curtain, mind 1 tell ye,Ml'fftcot a fatire thro’ your belly ;B it wha with havin' jees his'B >nnet.And fays, thanks ty’e for you. Soahet,"i e fhmna want the praifcs d ie,to ger.erolicy. Auieu.F I NS.