THEtQGoodman of Auchtcrmouchcie;O THECoodwifetumd GoodmanBEINGA merry Account how the Goodmn:was fitted to !us Mind.To winch is added.When I do, May I never Drink more.^euROVj-^~  —Piloted by J. & M. Rcbcrtfon, -Saltmarket, i8o*.Tie Goodman of Auchtermorcntib.Tune—Willie waj a wanton Wag.fN Aucbtermourthfc liv’d a man,if a* be true that I heard fr v»Who yok’d his picugh Ajpon the plain,'''Upon a wet and raicy day:■"She wind blew cauld which did him flay,frcrh the north-eail b. iih hail and rair1.,He lous’d his plcugh, he dougutna day,the cauld did (luce him harae.again.Gcodwife, quoth he, rife up amain,and gi'e the fl:ot? baith corn and hay,r{'he morn ye (hall my trouble ken:and i’fe be good wife as l mayYe’ve dwelt fou lown this meny-'a day,about-ike fire ye fit right glad,To-morrow ye (hall try xhc way,' and learn yourfclj the pleugh to baud.The feed-time in proves4 cauld and bad,and ye fit warm nae trouble fees;The morn ye fhall pcfs with the lad./*and then ye’ft ken what drinkers drees,Goodman, quoth (he, if it you pleare,that { mult travel to the picughjAnd yon to dwell at Lame at eafe,perhaps you may get toil enough.Jock, dare you venture wed the Cleugh,. and thou (halt baud and I ihall ca%f! {liful reward lace well enough,; of fine crav-uS Til gi’e .thee tWi*/Gi odinsis fince. ye ha’e'mAde this lay'.ibea guide a’ v;eel ar.d ihnr/i breakj'.They rode CcIkt that ne*cr did fa’,thtrefhre ie: njethii.g be ucgledcjSh'.ce with my trade re aye afFe&ed,f^e firft ye fitt-and then ye kued,l et a!t tlhng? rightly he direfted,keep well the gailins frae the g-led,,!And fee the bums fy)e rot the Ledand kirn the kirn and mak the cheefe,And i'r you occupy your trade,I trow 3 0U will find little cafeShe fat up late her mind to pleafe,iiUpon the mor s ihe role up air,and on her river laid her di^oon,&,? meikle in her lap agd maityas wad a ferv'd four meu at aoon.rheii on ftte goes wmh merry tone-away with jock to yoke the jsleugh,jl.truV or a’ thc^play be do-,:o -•tbar our goochnan got toil enough,jn.e ctrlisrgdhe 1,Vas hrang and uiigh,md c-,*her>,-rude fee took use fear,had a care, -’n, t , x. ( 4 )Then cur goodriiaft when time drew near,got up for to gae tty the fpinning,His fpintfie fell, all ran arear,alas! he got en iii bcgianiug.I w. tna whether yarn or liariing,was on the rock- or lint or tow,Sut round about the fire rinning,1 wat his rock’s head took a low.*And up into the lumb did flow*the foot took fire, it died him then,Some lumps did fa! and burn’d his poW,I wat he was a pretty man.Yet he got water in a pan,wherewith lie flock’ned out the fire;To fweep the iioufe he then began,to hand a right was his defire.He fetch’d the kirn ben frae the byre,whereat he wrought until he fwat:But fhould he plungejuntil he tyre,he litt'e or rff> butter gat.Then on the fire he hang the pat,and with twa floups ran to the fpont.Or ever ho came back i wat,the cew pat bottom wras burnt out.Next all the bairns rair’d in a -rout,he thought to catch them a’ up clean,The fir ft i e gat his anus about,was a bedirten to the cea.Alas! quoth he, What did.I mean,at ht.lt to tak this wark in hand;.I think l ii3Y*2( 5 )’witched been.when fyled blankets all he thud.Then forth to v/afh then in the drahd,and for to pofs them on a ftaac j;,A ralh of hood came frae the land,and down the water hath them tana,IBy that time ky ana calves ilk auedid meet, the good mail ran to red,fTbe brandit cow, thief break her bane,' did bore his buttocks till they bled.II trow he thought he was ii! (lead,gailios wander'd far awa\i And by them came the greedy gled,file took up i tiree and left but twa.Thefe poor beafts paid the ilcaith for a*,the fow he gave her little thank,! Drew o’er the kirn with her fore pa*,and ay (he winked and fhe drank.tHe took the kirn-flaff by the fhaak,wherewith to reach the fow a rout,1'he twa poor gafllns got a clanJc>.for their brains he chapped out.Then he pull’d the auld fow by the fiout,and with the kirndtaif on the back,He did hit her a right found rout,till o’er the ribs the fhauk play’d crack.Had you been there to fee the knack,yon would have laught to feen the (port,l he fow his huger gave a fnr.ck,with his ^iarp talks (he mace it Ihort*( 6 ) ' ; ^Then be began io ro^e gUiorr}for of lii- trade be then did tyre,Orebt beatings to the kila he fetk * ,white a'l the ribs were oa a Ihe.Up thiougirthe corn it Sid afpire, ' -nti-i to the roof it tcolrthe wa;,Wae’t. me, qnath he, a dear kiai-fcyre,a!«.s V that e’er I.fav; this diiy. .Ecr l was i:e’e.<- ia fic a-fray,fince fh-il my dame did red: my. head,Tor every thing did gang aiiray>I think theie ihail be ho re me ad.But all fhaU taro to wrack indeed,t with \ had my •plccgh Oik > keeped.Let never fceuer ebrae obfead,with that he fat him dowo and weeped..j&.cd e’er bis cheeks the tears they creepqd,whj» h oft he dighted with a clout;'I hen upoo the dy he-he ad he leaped,and co the wife‘gave tneny a fnout.W ho hfll did f eer her ftots about-,and for her ku band took pae rare,il-m at him baith .did laugh and float,i.nd ed foe thought rhefpert was rare.While die poor man was in defpair,not knowing v.nnt to f',> or do.For every thing, did bad ward fur,tb^o. he d’ * pat hts band Veto.Let■:t ?1 .-iSt’ ^v..V' :ejo.The g0od:nan ukl, Tc'rc welcome jo*,* for of nr: trade [ tL?ok great fliariie.Your occnpatioa take roy daate.quoth (he, gooduian, well may ye bruiWhat is the canfe ycur hand is lame ?quoth he the fow. mifcltief her choak.[ Did get it ill her teesh and (iioak,and eke the meikie branded cow.Into my breech her horn did ycrk,f and’s made my buttocks fair I trow:And now this charge i’li quit U> you,i alt comrpvei fies let b ' ende<!;I Both corn and kiiri is quite burnt throw,.what niifs is done cannot ba mended.i Whrrefore wy dear, be not offended,butjtik yotK* charge .tod I’ll tak mine;1 I wifli that » had quife aiisknnd.it,for dow 1 dree baithffame and paiq.Quoth ff.e goodman, the fau’t was thine,ye took ihf trade agar nit will;Mow after this do not rep;ne,but occupy your own with ikii!':: Since of my place you have yonr fill:die* do not bond t live* at. cafe.When forth ye walk the pleogh until,for now you,know what drinkers drias,Gae fetch me butter, rniik, and choefe,and let us eat and drink and gree,Indeed good wife, if it you pleafe,the ne’er a crumb the fow left me.( 8 )Cno^man, qcoth fhe. How mar this be,that every thing is gone arear ?Good wife- Wa’kout and in, and fee,and thrn you will have caufe to fpear.Qiioth /he, Goodman, Indeed I fear,if you fhould occupy this trade,Within a quarter of a year,our houfe will come to a fmall (lead.Now when you have thefi lines all read,and of the writer would have -flcill.From the fcinhway ycu need not fpecd,but /peer for Lady Ann’s New Mill.When s do, may I never Drink more.WHILE the Jove& is thinking,With ray friends Til he drinking,And with vigour purfae my delight;While the fool is d dig rung.His fat?,/ confining,With Dacchus I’ll fpena the whole night.With the God I’if be jeh’y,With raudnefs and folly.Fickle Wv man to marry implore iLeave ray bott/c and /riend.For to focli/li an end !When I do, may I never dank more.^rrr7%rr w,Fiinted by J. an3 M. Robertfon, Saltmarket, 1802