THELAIRD OFCOOLS GHOST,BEING *A Copy of several Conference* and Meetings that passedbetwixt the• Reverent Mr OGILVIE,Late Minister of the Gospel at Innerwick, in East Lothian,AMD TUB 'GHOST of Mr MAXWELL,Lite Laird of Ctiol,As it was fcrand in Mr Og!Lye’s Closet after his Death.WRITTEN WITH HIS OWN HAND.To which is addftl,The Dreadful Terrors of Death,MIRTSD BY W MACNIE,Whore i* always kept oti Sale, a choice and exte^yt .Auort>sn*»i of Hitteriee, Songs, Children’* Story osata,> Sthctd Book ,, dec.COPY OF CONFERENCES, &c.Up$n the third day of February, 1722, at seveno'clock in the evening, after I had parted with Tbur-stoa, and coming up the burial road, one came upriding after me ; upon hearing the noise of the horse’sfeet, I tons it to be Thurston ; but looking back, andseeing the horse to be of a grey colour, I called,Who's there ?" the answer was, the Laird of Cool, benot afraid. Looking to him, with the little light theanoon afforded, 1 took him to be Collector Castlelaw,who had a mind to put a trick upon me, and imme«diately I struck with all my force with my cane,thinking I would leave a mark upon him that wouldmake him remember bis presumption ; but althoughsensible T aimed as well as ever I did in my life, yettny cane finding no resistance, hot flying out ot myband to the distance of sixty feet; and, observing it■by tta whitr brad l dismounted 9nd t«ok it Up, butr. d some diffii uity in mounting again, partly by rea*Mn of a certain sort of Uembling throughout mywhole joints, something also of anger had its share inny confusion ; for though he laughed when my staffflew out of my hand coming upwielr him again, (whohalted all the time l was seeking my etaff,) I askedtiim once more who he was ? he answered, The Laird•f Cool. I inquired, First, if he was the Laird of3Coni ? Secondly, Wbat brnugkt blm Hither ? anrf.Thirdly, What was b» business with me ? he an-Iwei’ed, The reason that T want ^rou is, that I knowyou are disposed to ^9 for me ^kat npne of yourbrethren in NithsJale will so inP'’^ attempt, tnouguit serve never so gooU a purpose. I told him, I wouldnever refuse to do any thing to serve a good purpose,if I thougiit I was obliged to do it as my duty. Heanswered, Since I had undertaken what few in Nitbs-dale would, for he had tried several persons on that:subject, who were more obliged to him than I was to'aay person living. Upon this I drew mr bridle rein%and asked in surprise, what I had undertaken ? h*answered. That on Sabbath last^ I heard you COINdemned Mr Paton, and the othe? ministers of Dum¬fries, for ’dissuading Mr M^nxies from keeping bisappointment with me j* and if you had been in theirplace, would have persuaded the lad to do as I desir¬ed, and that you would have gone with him yourself,if he bad been airatd ; and if vou had been in Mr Pa-ton's place, you would have delivered my commissionsyoUTsell, as they tended to do Several persons justice.I asked him, Pray, Cool, vrlio infon* ed you that 3talked at that rijte l to which he answered, You tnuyfknow that we are acquainted with many things thatthe liviag know nothing about; these things you didsay, and much more to that purpose and deliver mycommissions to my loving wife. Upon this I said,'tis a pity Cool, that you who know so many ihing!^should nut know the diilerence between an absoksbeand conditional promise ; l did indeed, at the timeyon mention, blame Mr Paton, for [ thought binjustly blameable, in hindering the lad to ‘meet wit?*ybu, and if t had been in his place. I vrowld have act.* See Note bottom of 6th page.4eil quite the reverse; but I did never say, that if youwould come to Innerw ick and employ me, that Iwould go all the way to Dumfries on such an errand,that is what never so much entered into mv thoughts.He answer<*d, What were your thoughtsrl don’t pre¬tend to know, Irtiff Can depend on my informationthese were your words ; but I see you are in somedisorder, I will wait upon you when you have merepresence ot mind.By tliis time we were at James Dickson s inclo-Sy.re, below the church-yard •, and when f was recol¬lecting in mv mind, ifevei T had sposm tlie>r wordshe :»1I« dged, he brol.e off from me through the church¬yard' with greater violence than any man on horse¬back is capab'e of, with such a singing and buzzingfioise* as put.me in greater disorder.than 1 was in all *the time I was with hum I canre to my house,'andmy wife observed more than ordinary paleness in mycount*nance, and alledged that someth ng ail*d me.] called for a dram, and told her I was a little un¬easy* After I found myself a little refreshed, I wentto mv closet to meditate on this most astonishing ad¬ventureUpon tire 5th of March, 1722, being at Harehead,baptizing the sireplurd’s child, I came of}'about sun-setting, 8nd nf,ar illiam White's march, the Lairdof Cool came up with roe as for merly ; and after hisfirst salutation, bade me not he afia'd. 1 told him I%va-> not i"n the leas, afraid, in the name of COD andChrist try Saviour, that he vculd do me the lea-st^iari?* j for I kik w that he in whom I trysted, wa«h Diigrr than al^rhey nut together i snd if any ofthen* shoukl attnin t to do even.to the horse I nowride tipor., rss you have dene to Doctor MrmtitVvman, I have five,access to com;,!;;iiv to my Lord aadsMaster, to 'he lash af whose resentment yon are liablenow as before.*Cool.-—You need not multiply words upon tkafcbead, for you aie safe with me and safer, if saterean be, than when I was alire.Ogi!.—Weil then, Cool, let me hare a peaceableand easy conversation with you for the time we ridetogether, and give me some information concerningthe affairs of the other world for no man inclines tolose his time conversing with the dead, without near¬ing or learning something useful.Cool.—-Weil, Sir, I will satisfy yon as far as "Ithink proper and convenient. Let me know whatinformation you want.Ogil.—May I then ask yon, if you be in a fctate ofhappiness or not?Cool.-—There are a great many things I can an¬swer,,that the living are ignorant of; there are agreat many things that, notwithstanding the addition¬al knowledge I have acquired since my death, I can¬not answer; and therfe >re a great many question#you may start, of which the last is one, that I willnot answer.* What { know concern.ng the matter is this, The servantof Dr Menzies, physician at Dumfries, told my master and’'»*any others, that the Lard -of Cool lately dead, appearedto him, rode him down, ana killed his horse—That he ap¬pointed him to meet him some time after, at such a place,which he promised to do: But Mr Baton, then minister ofDumfries, advised him to break his promise. Mr Ogilviethen minister of Innerwick, near Dunbar, on hearing thisblamed Mr Pntpn much, saying, Had I been there, he wmifinot only have advised him to keep the promise, but have gonewith him.Dunbar, May 4th, 1785. Jam11 HamjiTon.Arminian Mag. for 1705.$pg!L—Then I know bow to manage our eonver**at)on ; whatever I inquire of you, I see you can eatilyshift me ; so that I might profit more by eonTereiagwith myself.Cool.-—You may try.Ogil.—-Well, then, what sort of a body is that yonappear in ; and what Oort of a horse is that you rideupon, which appears to be so full of metal ?Cool.—‘•You may depend upon it, it is not the samebady that I was witness to your marriage in, nor inwhich J died, for that is in the grave rotting ; but issuch a body as serves me in a moment, for I can fiyas fleet with it, as my *oul can do without it; so that! can go to Dumfries, aad return again, before youcan ride twice the length of your horse; nay, if I havea mind to go to London or Jerusalem cr to tbfe moon,if you please, 1 can perform all these journies equallysoon, for it costs me nothing bat a thought or wish :for this body is as fleet as your thought, for in themoment of time you can turn your thoughts on Rome,1 can go there in person; and as for my horse he ismuch like myself, for he is Andrew Johnston, mytenant who died forty-eight hours before me.Olig.—So it seems when Andrew Johnston inclinesto ride, you must serve him in the quality of a horse,as he does you now.Cool.—You are mistaken.Ogil —l thought that all distinctions between inie-tr<bses and maids, lairds and tenants, bad been dodeaway at death.Cool Trne it is, but you do not take up the mat¬ter.Ogil. —This is one of the questions you. won't an¬swer.Cool.—You are mistaken, for that question I canaaswer, and after you may understand it.7Ogil.—Well then, Cool, have you never yet ap¬peared before God. nor received any sentence fromhim' as a Judge.Cool.—Never yet.Og».—I know you was a scholar, Cool, an! ftisgenerally believed there is a private judgement, be¬sides the general at the great day j the former imme¬diately after death.-—Upon this he interrupted me,arguing.Cool.—No such thing, no such thing! No trial,no trial till the great day ! The heaven which goodmen enjoy after death, consists only in the serenityof their minds, and the satisfaction of a good con¬science *, and the certain hopes they have of eternaljoy, when that day shall come. The punishment orhell of the wicked, immediately after death, consistsin the stings of an awakened conscience, and the ter¬rors of facing the great Judge, and the sensible ap¬prehensions of eternal torments ensuing. And thisbears still a due proportion to the evils they did whenliving. So indeed the state of some good folks differbut little in happiness from what they enjoyed in therforld, save only that they are free from the body, andthe sins and sorrows that attend it. On the otherhand, there are some who may be said rather not tohava been good, than that they are wicked j while liv¬ing, their state is not easily distinguished from thatof the former; and under that class comes a greatherd of souls ; a vast number of ignorant people, whohave not much minded the affairs of eternity, but atthe same time have lived in much indolence, ignor¬ance and innocence.Ogil.—1 thought that their rejecting the terms e£salvation offered, was sufficient ground for God, t«punish them with eternal displeasure \ and as to theirrguorancs, that could never excuse them, since they8live in a place of the w»rW, wS^re tlie (me kuv-of these things might have been easily attained.Cool.—They never properly rejected the tend* ofsalvation; they never, strictly spea-ing, rejectedChrist; poor sonls, they had as great a liking bqth tohim and hekven, as their gross immaginations werecapable of Impartial reason must make many allow¬ances, as the stupidity of their parents, want of edc-eation, distance from people of good sense and know¬ledge, and the uainterrupted application they wereobliged to give to their secular affairs for their dailybread, the impious treachery of their psstors. who per¬suaded them, that if they were of such a party allwas well; and m»oy other oonsiderations, which God,who is pure and perfect reason itself, will not over-' look : these are not bo much under the load of divsaedispleasure, as thy are out of his grace and favour ;aad you know it k one thing to be discouraged andquite another thing to be persecuted with ail the<1 power and rage of an incensed earthly king. I as¬sure you, men’s faces are not more various and dif¬ferent in the woild, than their circumstances are afterdeath.Ogil I am loath to believe all that you have s»i£at-this time. Cool, (but I will not dispute those niat-tffs with yowl because some things you S.ave advanc¬ed seem to contradict the Scriptures, which shallalways lock upon as the infallible truth of God. ForI find, in the parable of Dives and Lazarus, that tlieone was int’mediately after death carried up by theasgels into Abraham’s bosom, and the other iramedLaftcly thrust down to hell.Cool Excuse me, Sir, that does not contradictone-word that I "have said, but you seem not to nn-staad the parable, whose only end is to illustrate thetruth, that a man may be very happy and flouring in9this world, ancl wretched and miserable in the next jand that a man may be miserable in this world andhappy and trlorious in the next,Ogi!.—Be it so, Cool, 1 shall yield that point t*.you, and pass to another which ha- afforded me muchspeculation since our last encounter ; and that is, Howyou came to knovr hat I talked ;<fter the manner that1 did concerning Mr. 'Paton, on the first Sabbath o¥February last : was you present with me, but in¬visible ? He answered very haughtily. No, Sir, Iwas not present myself, i answered, I would nothave you angry, Cool, I proposed this question formy own satisfaction, but if you don t think proper toanswer, let it pass. After lie had paused, with hiseyes on the ground, for three or four minutes of time,at most, with some haste and seemingcheerfulness, says,Cool —Well, Sir, I will satisfy yon in that point »You must know that there are sent from heaven,angels to guard and comfort, and to do other goodservices to good people, and even the spirits of goodmen departed are employed in that errand.Ogil.—And do you not think that every man has agood angel ?Cool.—No, but a great many particular men have ;there are but few houses of distinction especially, bntwhat have at least one attending them ; and fromwfeat you have already heard of spirits, it is no diffi- *cult matter to understand how they may he serviceableto each particular member, though at different!placesat a great distance. Many are the good offices whichthe good angels do to them that fear God' thoughmany times they are not sensible of it: and I knowassuredly that one powerful angel, or even an activeclever soul departed, may be sufficient for some vil¬lages; but for your great cities, such as London,^Edinburgh, or the like, there u one great angel, th,»i10lui the supcriQteudattce ef the whole : M)d there areinferior angels, or seals departed, to whose particulareare such a man, of such a particular weight orbusiness, is committed. Now, Sir, the kingdom ofSatan does ape the kingdom of Christ as much in mat¬ters of politics, as can be, well knowing that the court?of wisdom is from above ; so that from thence aresent out missionaries in the same order. But becausethe kingdom of Satan is much better replenished thanthe other, instead of one devil, there are in many in¬stances two or three commissioned to attend a par¬ticular family of influence and distinction.Ogi!.—I read that there are ten thousand timesten thousand of angels that wait upon God, and singhis praise and do his will, and I cannot understandhow the good angels can be inferior in number to theevil.Cool.—Did not I say, that whatever the number be,the spirits departed are employed in the same business;so that as to the number of original deities, whereofSatan is chief, < cannot detesmine, but you need notdoubt but there are more souls departed in that placewhich in a loose sense you call hell, by almost an in¬finity, than what arc gone to that place, which in %like sense you call heaven which likewise are em¬ployed in the same purpose : and 1 can assure youthat there is as great a difference between angels, bothgood aijd bad as there is among men, with respect totheir sense, knowledge, cunning, cleverness and action,which is more, the departed souls on both sides,outdo severals, from their very first departure of theoriginal angel-. This you will perhaps think a paradoxbut is true.Ggil.—I do not doubt it, but what is that toquestion, about which I am solicitous.Cool.-—Take a little patience, Sir; from what Inhave said you might have understood me, if yoa h/idyour thoughts about you ; But I shall explain myselfto you. Both the good and the bad angels have staticdtimesof rendezvous,and the principal angels, who ha'rethe charge either of towns, cities or kingdoms, not tomention particular persons, villages, and families, andall that is transacted in these several parts of tbeacountry, are there made open *, and at their re-en¬counter on each side, every thing is told, as in yourparish, in mills, kilns, and smithies, with this difl-erence, that many things false are talked at the livingre-encounters, but nothing but what is exact truth, issaid or told among the dead ; only I must observe toyou, that, as l am credibly informed, several of theinferior bad angels, and souls of wicked men departed,have told many things that they have done, and th«}ixwhen a more intelligent spirit is sent out upon inquiry,and the report of the former seeming doubtful, )hebrings in a contrary report and makes it appear truth,the former fares very ill: nevertheless their regard tin%truth prevents it j for while they observe the truth, theydo their business and keep their station, for God istruth.OgiL—So much truth being among the good angel*!,I am apt to think that lies and falsehood will be asmuch in vogue among the bad.Cool.—A gross mistake, and it is not alone the mis¬take which the living folks fall under with respect tothe other world ; for the case plainly is this, an ill manwill not stick at a falsehood to promote his design j asrlittle will an evil soul departed, stop at any thing that.can make himself successful • but iu admitting reporthe must tell (he truth, cr woe be to him. But besidestheir monthly, quarterly, or yearly meetings, or what¬ever they be, departed souls acquainted, may take atrip to see one another yearly, weekly, daily, or12afteuer if thy please. Thus then I answer your^nestion, that you was so muth concerned about: forsny informaticn was from no less than three persons,viz. Atkman, who attends Thurstnn’s family; JamesCorbet, who waits upon VJr Patou : for at that timehe was then looking after Mrs. Sarah Paton, whowas at your' house ; and an original emissary ap¬pointed to wait upon yours.At this I was much surprised, and after a littlethinking, I asked himi And is there really, Cool,an emissary from hell, in whatever sense you take it,ibat attends my family ?Cool You may depend upon it.Ogil.— And what do you think is his business ?Coni.—To divert you from your duty, aud causeryeu to do as many iil things as he can : for much de¬pends on having the minister on theirVideUpon this I was struck with a sort of terror, whichI cannot account for. In the mean time he said severalthings I did not understand. But after coming to myformer presence of mind, said,Ogi! —But Cool, tel; me in earnest, if there be a*ievil that attend^ my family, though invisible?Cool.—Just as sure as you are breathing, but beso much dejected upon this information, for I tell■you likewise that there is a good angel who attendsyou, who is str •* >ger than the other.Ogil.—Are you sure of that Cool ?Cool.—Yes, there is one riding on your right hand,who aiight Us .well have b en elsewhere, for I meantyou uo harm.Ogih—\nd how long has he been with me ?Cut)!;—Only'since we passed Brand’s-lee, but nowbe is gene.Qji! — We are just upon F.lenscleugb, and I de-iiih'SO part with yuu, though perhaps 1 have gainedmore by conversation than 1 could have otherwisedone in a twelvemonth $ I choose rather to see youanother time, when you’re at leisure ; and I wish itwere at as great a distance from Innerwick as you can., Cool.—Be it so, Sir 5 but I hope you will be a*•Liiging to me next re-encounter, as I have been toi you this.Ogil.—I promise you I will, as far as is consistentwith my duty to my Lord and Master Christ Jesus :and since you have obliged me so much by informa¬tion, I will abswer all the questions you propose, asfar as consists with my knowledge ; but 1 behevt you1 want no information from me. «Cool.—I came not here to be instructed by yqu,but I want your help of another kind.Ij Upon the filth of April, 1722, as I was returningt from Old Hamstocks, Cool came up with me on horse-I back, at the foot of the ruinonc inclosure, before we1 came to Dad : I told him his last conversation hat![ proved so acceptable to me, that 1 was well pleased1 to see him agaiu } that there was a number of things! that I wanted to infaim myself further of, if he wouldi be so good as satisfy meCool.—Last time we met, I refused you nothingr you asked j and now I expect that you shall refusef me nothing that 1 shall a-k.Og:!.—Nothing, Sir, that is in my po'/’er, or thatJ I can do with safety to my reputation aril charac-k trr as a Christian. What then are your demands ?Cool.—All tuat I desire oi you is, that as vqu pro-ijt mi“ed that on a Sabbath day you would go to myit wife, who now possesses all my < fleets, and tell her|| the fallowing particulars, and tell her in my name to’ rectify these matters. First, That I was owing1 justly to Provost Crosby, 50’. Scots, and three years*a interest, but on hearing ol his death, my good brother1 the Laii0 at C—!, and !, forged a discharge, narrated14the bond, the sum, and other particulars, with thishonourable clause, ‘‘ And at the time it had fallen by,and could not be found.” With an obligation on thePrsvost’s part to deliver up this bond as he could hitupon-it. And this discharge was dated three monthsbefore the Provost s death. And when his son and suc¬cessor, Andrew Crosby, wrote to me concerning thisBond, I came to him and shewed him the forged dis¬charge, which silenced him ; so that I got up my bondwithout more ado. And when 1 heard of Robert Ken-' faedy’s death, with the same help of C—l, I got a Bill |upon him for 190!. of which I got full and complete Ipayment, C—1 got the half. When I was at Dumfr»e«,the same day that Robert Grier died, to whom I wasowing an account of 361. C—l, my goodbrother, wasthen at London, and not being able of myself, beingbut a bad writer, to make out a discharge of the ac¬count, which I wanted, I met accidentally with oneRobert Boyd, a poor W riter lad in Dumfries ; I tookhim to Mrs. Carnock’s, and gave him a bottle of wine,and told him I had paid Thomos Grier’s account, butbad neglected to get a discharge, and if he wouldhelp me to aoe I would reward him. He flew awayfrom me in a great passion, saying, he would ratherbe hanged ; but if I had a mind fur these things, I had 1better wait to C—l came home. This gave me greattrouble, fearing what C—l and I had done formerly |was no secret. I followed Boyd to the street, aud |lmade an apology, saying, I was jesting, commending |him for his honesty, and got his promise never to »repeat what had passed. « I sent f«r my cousin B—m iII —rie, your good-brother, who, with no difficulty, for ia guinea and a half, undertook and performed all that jI wanted j and for a guinea morj made me up a uis- tcharge for 2001. Scots, that I was owing to your ifather-in-law, and his friend Mr Muirbead, whichdischarge I gave to John Ewart, when he desired tfeeISmeney", and he at my desire, produced Ij to you whichyou sustained.A great'many of the like instances were told, ofwhich I cannot remember the persons names andthings : but, says he what vexes me more than allthese, is the injustice I did Home^ Maxwell, tenantto my Lord Nithsdale for whom was factor. Iborrowed 20001. from him, 5001. of which he bor¬rowed from another hand: I gave him my bond, and,for reasons 1. contrived, I obliged him to secrecy :He died within the year, and left nine chiidren, hiswife being dead before himself. I came to seal uphis papers for my lord’s security $ his eldest daughterentreated me to look through them all, and to giveher an account what was their slock, and what wastheir debt. I very willingly undertook it, and ingoing through the papers, J put my own bond in mypocket. His circumstance* proving b.^d, his nipechildren are now serving. These things 1 desirnyouto represent to my wife; and take her brother witu'you. and let them be immediately rectified, for shehas a sufficient fund to do it upon ; and if it weredone, l think I would be easy and happy; therefore,1 hope you will make no delay.After a short paoss, 1 answered, ‘Tia a good er¬rand Cool, you are sending me t«v do justice to theoppressed and injured; but notwithstanding f seemyselt come in for 2001. Scots, yet I begged a littletime to consider the matier. And siiice t find youaie as much master of reason now as ever, and morethan ever, ! will reason upon the matter in its generalview, and then with respect to the expediency of mybeing the messenger) and this I will do wish all man¬ner of frankness. From what you have said, l seeclearly what ynur present condition ir, so that I needuot ask any more efutstions on that bead ; sm! you16sett! not bid me take courage, for at this moment Iam no more afraid of you than a new-born child.Coo!.-—Well, say on.Ogil.—Tell me then, since such is your ability,that you can fly a thousand miles in the twinkling ofan eye, ir your desire to do the oppressed justice, beas great as you pretend what’s the rea on you don’tfly to the coffers of some rich Jew or Banker, whereare thousands of gold and silver invisibly lift andinvisibly return it to the coffers of the injured ? Andsince your wife has sufficient fund, and more, whycannot you empty her purse invisibly, to make thes,epeople amends ?Cool.—Because I cannot.Ogil.—If these tilings be rectified, yon would beeasy and liapp^ j I don’t at all credit that tor whatever justice may be done to the people, yet the guiltof the base action always remains upon you.Cool.—Now you think you have silenced me, andgained a noble, victory but I will shew you yourMistake immediately ; for 1 cannot touch any gold ormoney by reason of these spirits that are statedguardians of justice and honesty.Ogil.—What is that you tell me Cool? Do notunworthy fellows break house? every night and yetyoo, that can put yourself into so many hundred dif¬ferent shapes in a moment cannot do it.Cool.—It is true, Sir, against tlie living, men maySnd out some probable means of securing themselves :but if spirits departed we.re allowed, then no maawould be secure ; for, in that case every man I hada prejudice at would soon be beggared.Ogi!—Might you not go to the mines of Mexicoand Peru, where those sums would not be missed ?„ Cool No, Sir, for the iame reason.dgil,—But, Cool, there is so much treasure lost inIVtke £«a, yftO easily dive into tlse bottom of it,seareb that, and refund those people their losses,where no man is injured.Cool.—^ on are a little too forward this night, Sir,and incliae much to banter: what I ve said mightsatisfy you, but sin^e it does not. I’ll tell you further,that no spirits, good nor bad, has the power to takeany money or gold ; the good never do,,-though thehad, if once iii an age, it is no small quarrel : for ifit were allowed them, then they would be very suc¬cessful in their business, and never fail of gainingtheir point.Ogil.— VVbat hinders them Cool?Coo! Superior power, that governs and guards all.Ogil,—You have satisfied me entirely upon thathead. But pray ; Cool, what is the reason that youcannot go to your wife yourself, and .tell her whatyou have a mind ? I should thiak this a more sureway to gain your point,j Cool.—Because I will not.Ogil.— I’bat is not an answer to me, Cool.Coo! That is one of the questions I told yon longago I would not answer : but if you go as 1 desire, I'! promise to give you full satisfaction after you. havei done your business. Trust me for once, and believej§ me i will not disappoint you.Upon the 10 h of April, 1722, coming from OldU Cam bus, upon the post road, I met with Cool on the'4 head of the heath called the Pees. He asked me, if|[ 1 had considered the matter he had recommended ? Ii told him I had, and was in the same opinion l was ht■- when we pa; ted ; that i would not possibly undertakeli his commissions, unless he could give me them iaa writing under his hand. I told him that the list ofif his grievances were so great, that I could not possibly:n renemher them without being put in writing; aadIISthat I wanted nothing but reason to ^termine me inthat, and all other affairs of njy life.-—I know, sayshe, this is a mere evasion ; but tell me if the Laird ofTbarston will do it ? I am sure, said I, be-will not:and if he should, I would do all that I could to binderhim ; for ! think he has as little to do in these mattersas myself. But tell me, Cool, Is it not as easy towrite your story as tell it, er ride on what do you callhim ? for l have forgot your hores’s name.Cool -No, Sir, it is not j and perhaps I may con¬vince jou of the reasonableness of it afterwards.Ojjil.—' would be glad to hear a reason that issolid, for not speaking to your wife yourself. But,however, any rational creature may see what a fool Iwould make of myself, if I would go to Dumfries,and tell your wife you had appeared to me, and toldso many forgeries and villanies that you had commit¬ted, and that she behoved to make reparation ; theconsequence might perhaps be, that she would scoldme } for she would be loath to part with any moneyshe possesses, and therefore tell me I was maa, orpossibly pursue me for a calumny ; how would I vin¬dicate myself, how could i prove that you ever spokewith me ? Mr Paton, and other ministers in Dnm-fries, would tell me, the devil had spokon with me ;aod why should I repeat these things for truth, whichhe that was a liar from the beginning, had told me;C—p—1 and B—-r H—rie would be upon me andpursue me before the Commissary ; every body wouldtooft upon me as a brain-sick or mad ; therefore I in-treat you to do not insist upon sending me so ridicul¬ous an errand. The reasonableness of my demandsI leave to your own consideration, as yon did yourformer to mine. But drspping the matter till our)i*ext interview, give me leave to enter upon tome.nrore diverting subject ^ I do net know, Cool, but theV '*i information pa bare giten, may Jo at much *ervic«t« mankind, as the redress of all these grierancesi wouid araoont to.Mr Ogilvie died *ery soon after.In the Aminisn Magazine for 1785, (in additionto what is nentioned at the bottom of p. 5. Dr.I Hamilton says, ‘‘The ensuing relation of what fol¬lowed,” ("viz. An Account of the Conferences,} “wrotel in Mr Ogilvie’s own hand, was found in his desk,after his death, 6y Mrs Ogilvie ; she gave it t® Mr! L, now minister atOldbamstoehs, who gave it to me.”sire or cool.i w ‘ ■ ;2dTHEDreadful Terrors of Death,A holy man speaking of Death, styles it with a greatieal of elegance and propriety, the King f>f Terr<yrftJob xviii. 14, that is to say, the most terrible thingin the niorld. Nor indeed is there any tiring thatpresents itself to our imagination, which bears a moreformidable aspect. It is possible to escape t|ie edgeof the sword to stop the mouths of Hons, and to^ticneh the rage of Rre; but when death once shootsat us the enrenomed arrows, of which his quiver isfqll, when it opens its Internal throat, and vomit?i'arth its devouring flames, it is utterly immposBiblefor us to guard against its fury.There are a number of warlike inventions where¬with to oppose the attempts of the most powerfaf andintpiaceable enemy, but neither the stratagems of thegreatest qaptains, the most regular fortifications, northe roost victirious and triumphant armies can with-staad a single moment at the approach of Death. Itpierces, in instant, through the strongest bulwarks,the thickest walls, and the most solid tow ers. It leaps•ver the widest ditches, the highest forts, and theroost inaccessible rocks. It blows down the strongesthancadoes, and laughs at all our military entrench¬ments; every where it finds the weakness of our ar¬mour, and through the best tempered breast-platestrikes th*- proudest heart. In the most solitary re¬tirement it comes upon us, and snatchss us from the21midst of the most faithful vigilant guards. 7n short,there is nothing either in nature or art which can pro-jtect us from its erne! and insatiable hands.There are none so barbarous, hut are sometimesevercome by the prayers and tears tjf such as prostrateItfaemselves to implore mercy and compassion-, ami-even those who have the least sense of humanity(commonly spare the weakest sex and age. But un¬merciful Death has no mure respect to such as hum-jble themselves than to those that resist. It regiitdsnot the tears of the mf’anis sucking at the breast, butplucks them from the bosoms ot their tender mothers,[(land dashes them in pieces before their eye- It mock*Sat the lamentations of the fail* and lovely, and de-Hjlights to traaiple upon their enchanting beauties. Itjiistops its ears to the supplications of trembling old age,iliand takes a pride in casting to the ground those ve-perable oaks which have been so long rooted in theworld.In the day of battle, when Princes or Generals oflian army are taken prisoners, they are treated in alidifferent manner from common soldiers, but inexor*(table Death, who is blind to all distinctions, treadsixinder foot, with' the same huouhtiness, the prince andjtthe s'utjecVthe master and the servant, tile noble-iman and the vassal, the rich Dives and the begging~iazarus. It bloos nut «ilh ttie same blast the reostbilling itiminaries and the most obscure lamps. Ittlhasf no- more re-peet for the crowns of kings, theiiPopea triple ciown, ard the Cardinal s hat than irosa: the shepherd s crook or the slave’s* chains. Sooner»r later it heaps them all together in the same darki and lothsome piison, and in the same mortar reduces'them to dust.There is no war so furious and cruel, but what ad-inits ef some days, or at least some boors of frttee,2»and even the moit inhuman minds are at last weary oftheir conquest, and cloyed with shedding blood. Atevery hour and moment it mows down whole nationsand kindreds. The flesh of all animals that have liv¬ed and died during the sptce of more than six than-sand years hath not been able to glut the ravenoushanger of this devouring monster.The fortune of war is various, he that wins thevictory to-day, to-irtorrow may be put to flight; andhe that rides at present on a triumphal car, may be¬come the footstool of his enemy. But Death is al¬ways victorious, and insolently triumphs over all the Ikings and people of the earth. It never returns toits den without being loaded with spoils, and drench¬ed with blood. The strong Sampsons, and the victo¬rious Davids, who have torn in pieces lions and hears,and cut oil' the heads of 0>oliahs have, at last, beendevoured and swallowed up by Death. The greatAlexanders, and the triamphant Cesars, who made, the world tremble before them and subdued mostpart of ihe habitable earth could never find any wea¬pons to defend them againt this last enemy. Whenmagnificient statues, and stately trophies, were erect- ied to their honour, Death laughed them to scorn* andmocked at their foolish vanity; the riefi marbles,whereon so many proud titles were engraved, cover¬ing nothing but a little rotten flesh, and a few bones,which Death hath broken and reduced to ashss.WTe read, in the Revelation of the prophet Daniel,that king Neluchadnexnar saw in, a dream, a greatimage, whose brightness was excellent, ant the formthereof terrible, “ its head was of fine gold, its breastand ai ms were of silver, its belly and thighs of brass,its legs of iron, and its feet partly of iron, and partlyol clay.”—Dan. ii. 5#, 33. As this mighty Prineewas beholding it with astonishment, a little st«Be,cat23out of a mountain without hands, smote the feet cfi this prodigous statue, which vvereot’iron and clay, and! broke them to pieces ; not only the iron and the claywere broken, but also the gold, the silver, and thebrass, and it all became as chaff which the wind driv-etb away, Psal. i. 4. For what is all the pomp,, glory, power, and dignity of this life, but a smokedriven with the wind and a vapour that soon vanishes ?I It is^like a shadow that flies from us. or a dream thati quickly fades away. When man, who was createdi in the image ot God, makes his appearance from the' dust, he struts about a little while, and becomes for-ii midable ; but as soon as death strikes at his earthly| parts, and begins to break his flesh and his bones, allIt the pomp and powH all the glory and magnificencei: of the richest, most victorious and most • terriblen monarch is changed into a lolbsmne stench, turns to1 ashes, and is reduced t» nothing, “ vanity of vanities,lit all is vanity ”—E'tI. i. 2.Since therefore Death is so cruel as to spare none,i and its power so great that none can either escape ori: resist, it is no wonder that it becomes so terrible, andt! fills with fear, anguish, and despair, the minds of all( such as have not settled their faith and hope uponGod. There is no criminal so hardened but trembles,!; and is seized with horror,, when he sees the scaffoldj erecting upon which he is condemned to be brokenU upon the wheel, or when he sees in the fire the red-! hot irons wiih which he is-to be pinched to deathsi * In the midst of a sumptuous banquet, king Bel¬li shazz-rr saw the fingers of a man's hand writing theser words upon ;he wall of his palace, ment. menc, tehel,U upharsin ; which is iliui interpreted by the prophetT D„„i • *, mene. “ Cod hath numbered thy kingdomfj and f is bed it.’* tthd^ “ thou art weighed in th* ba«r! ianecq and are found ^aotiag, * at ujpkamzi)24>“ tlijr kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes tand Persians *’ Dan. v. The moment this great mon -arch cast his eyes upon this miraculous writing “ hiseountenance was changed and his thoughts troubledhim. so that the joints «f bis loins were loosed, and iihis knees smote one against another." How much |greater cause then has the profane and worldly manto be seized with horror and dismay, who, in the £midst of pomp and deceitful piea ures may perceivethe frightful hand of Death writing on every wall inhis house in capital letters, and even engraving on :!his forehead, that God hath numbered his day*, and |that this tn which he breathe" shall be *onn followedby an eternal night! That God hath weighed himin the balance of his justice, and found him light asthe wind ; and that the Almighty Disposer of allthings, to whom vengeance belongs, ivilj soon disrobehim of all his glory and riches. The expectation ofDeatSi is more intolerable to them than Death itself;and they had rather cast themselves headlong intothe bottomless pit of hell, than endure the terroffe andfear* of it in their guilty consciences. In short, ifthere be any who die unconcerned, or without any >|terror upon their conscience, they must be «itber per- Isous entirely stupid and brutal, or like a drunkardwh# is thrown fro»> a precipice when fost asleep.'• *MFINIS.