[No. 11.THE HISTORYTMiB m&mWITHTHE IRON MASK;TOGETHER WITHTHE LIFEOF THEBLOODY ROBESPIERRE.EDINBURGH .PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET..HiJ.fi UVJMOi. •! rib, i .Ml r.l.i)-. t • •. I {I l:<ni ]) If/. •) HiVADO'/ E*EDIRRflKGHbfogm BrnmummXIIEFILE/AJinxhe mm isfai*HftlXH0*.XHE HlrMOHATHEI MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.kTiiis remarkable person existed as a state■'prisoner in France during the latter part oflithe 17th century. The circumstances oflijthis person form a historical aenigma, whichI Fas occasioned much inquiry and many con-i jectures. Tho authenticated particulars con-■ cerning the Zron Mask are as follows:—A1 few months after the death of Cardinal Maza-i rin, there arrived at the isle of Sainte Mar-[ guerite, in the sea of Provence, a young pri-• soner, whose appearance was peculiarly attract¬ing : his person was above the middle size, and(. elegantly formed; his mien and deportment' were noble, and his manners graceful; and' even the sound of his voice had in it somethinguncommonly interesting. On the road, he con¬stantly wore a mask made with iron springs,to enable him to eat without taking it off. Itwas at first believed that this mask was madeentirely of iron ; whence he acquired the title0of ike Man with the Iron Mask. His attendantshad received orders to dispatch him if hoii attempted to take off his mask, or discoverr himself. He had been first confined at Pignerol,under the care of the governor M. de St Mars ;i! and upon being sent thence to St Marguerite,i ho was accompanied thither by the same per¬son, who continued to have the charge of him.I Ho was always treated with the utmost respect:i he was served constantly in plate; and the4 THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.governor himself placed his dishes on the table,retiring immediately after, and locking the doorbehind him. He tu-to'-yoit (thee d and thoiCd) ,the governor ; Vvho, on the other hand, behav¬ed to him in the most respectful manner, andnever wore his hat before him, nor ever satdown in his presence without being desired.The Marquis of Louvoisis, who went to seehim at St Marguerite, spoke to him standing,and with that kind of attention which denoteshigh respect. During his residence here, heattempted twice, in an indirect manner, tomake himself known. One day, he wrote some¬thing with his knife on a plate, and threw itout of his window towards a boat that wasdrawn on shore near the foot of the tower. Afisherman picked it up, and carried it to thegovernor. M. de St Mars was alarmed at thesight; and asked the man, with great anxiety,w hether he could read, and whether any oneelse had seen the plate ? The man answeredthat he could not read ; that he had but justfound the plate ; and that no one else had seenit. He was, however, confined till the gover¬nor was well assured of the truth of his asser¬tions. Another attempt to discover himselfjiroved equally unsuccessful. A young man, wholived in the isle, one day perceived somethingfloating under the prisoner’s window ; and onpicking it up, he discovered it to be a very fineshirt written all over. He carried it imme¬diately to the governor ; who, having looked atsome parts of the writing, asked the lad, withsome appearance of anxiety, if he had not hadthe curiosity to read it ? He protested repeat¬edly that he had not; but two days afterwardshe was found dead in his bed. The Mask de 1THE MAX WITH. THE IRON MASK.Fer, or Man with the Iron Mask, remained inthis isle till 1698, when M. de St Mars, being-promoted to the government of the Hastile,conducted his prisoner to that fortress. In hisway thither, he stopt with him at his estatenear Palteau. The Mask arrived there in alitter, surrounded by a numerous guard onhorseback. M. do St Mars eat at the sametable with him all the time they resided at Pal-tfcau ; but the latter was always placed withhis back towards the windows ; and the pea¬sants, who came to pay their compliments totheir master, and whom curiosity kept con¬stantly on the watch, observed that M. de StMars always sat opposite to him, with two pis¬tols by the side of his plate. They were waitedon by one servant only, who brought in andcarried out the dishes, always carefully shut¬ting the door both in going out and returning.The prisoner was always masked, even whenhe passed through the court ; but the peoplesaw his teeth and lips, and observed that hishair was grey. The governor slept in tlie sameroom with him, in a second bed that was placedin it on that occasion. In the course of theirjourney, the Mask was; one day heard to askhis keeper whether the king had any designon his life ? “ No, prince,1’ he replied ; “ pro¬vided that you quietly allow yourself to be con¬ducted, your life is perfectly secure.” Thestranger was accommodated as wed as it waspossible to be in the Bastile. An apartmenthad been prepared for him by order of thegovernor before lijs arrival, fitted up in the mostconvenient style v and everything ho expresseda desire for was instantly procured him. Histable was the best that could be provided ; aud6 TlfE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.he was supplied with as rich clothes as he de¬sired ; but his chief taste in this last particu¬lar was for lace, and for linen remarkably fine.He was allowed the use of such books as hedesired, and he spent much of his time in read¬ing He also amused himself with playing up¬on the guitar. He had the liberty of going tomass ; but was then strictly forbid to speak oruncover his face : orders were even given tothe soldiers to fire upon him if he attempt¬ed to do either ; and their pieces were alwayspointed towards him as he passed through thecourt. When he had occasion to see a sur¬geon or a physician, he was obliged, under painof death, constantly to wear his mask. Anold physician of the Bastile, who had often at¬tended him when he was indisposed, said, thathe never saw his face, though he had frequentlyexamined his tongue and different parts of hisbody ; and that he never complained of hisconfinement, nor let fall any hint by which itmight be guessed who he was. He often passedthe night in walking up and down his room.This unfortunate prince died on the 19th No¬vember 1703, after a short illness; and was in¬terred next day in the burying-place of theparish of St Paul. The expense of his funeralamounted only to 10 livrns. The name givenhim was Marchiali: and even his age, as wellas his real name, it seemed of importance tooonceal ; for, in the register made of his fune¬ral, it was mentioned that he was about 40years old ; though he had told his apothecary,some time before his death, that he thoughtho must be 60. Immediately after his death,his apparel, linen* clothes, mattresses, and, inshort, every thing that had been used by him,THE itAK WITH THE IKOX MASK. 7wero burnt; the walls of'his room were scraped;the door taken up, evidently from the appre¬hension that he might have found means ofwriting any thing that would have discoveredwho he was. Nay, such was the fear of hishaving left a letter, or any mark which mightlead to a discovery, that his plate was melteddown ; the glass was taken out of the windowof his room and pounded to dust; the window-frame and doors burnt; and the ceiling of theroom, and the plaster of the inside of the chim¬ney, taken down. Several persons have af¬firmed that the body was buried without ahead ; and M. de St Foix informs us in hisEssais Historiques, that “ a gentleman, havingbribed the sexton, had the body taken up inthe night, and found a stone instead of thehead.” The natural inference from these ex¬traordinary accounts, is, that the Iron Maskwas not only a person of high birth, but musthave been of great consequence ; and that hisbeing concealed w’as of the utmost importanceto the king and ministry. Among the variousconjectures that have been formed concerningthe real name and condition of this remarkablepersonage, none appear to have any probabi¬lity except the following That he was a sonof Anne of Austria, queen to Louis XIII.,and, consequently, that ho was a brother ofLouis XIV.; but whether a bastard brother,a brother-german, or a half-brother, is aquestion that has given rise to three seve¬ral opinions, viz., 1. That the queen provedwith child at a time when it was evident itcould not have been by het husband, who, forsome months before, had hever been with herin private. The supposed father of this child8THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.is said to have been the Duke of Buckingham,who came to France, in May 1625, to conductthe Princess Henrietta, wife of Charles I., toEngland. The private letters and memoirs ofthose times speak very suspiciously of the queenand Buckingham : his behaviour at Amiens,whither the queen and queen-mother accom¬panied the princess in her way to Boulogne,occasioned much whispering; and it appearsthat the king, on this occasion, was extremelyoffended at her, and that it required all the in-fluenceand address of thequeen-mother to effect !a reconciliation. It is said that this child wasprivately brought up in the country ; that whenMazarin became a favourite, he was intrustedwith the care of him; and that Louis XIV.,having discovered the secret on the death of thecardinal, thought it necessary to confine him inthe manner above related. 2. The second, andthe most probable opinion, is, that he was thetwin-brother of Louis XIV., born some hoursafter him. This first appeared in a shortanonymous work published without date, orname of place, or printer. It is therein said,—“Louis XIV. was born at St Germains on Layeon the 5th September 1638, about noon; andthe illustrious prisoner, known by the appella¬tion of the Iro?i Mask, was born the same day,while Louis XIII. was at supper. The king jand the cardinal, fearing that the pretensionsof a twin-brother might1 one day be employed jto renew those civil wars with which Francehad been so often afflicted, cautiously con- fcealed his birth, and sent him away to bebrought up privately.” This opinion was con¬firmed in a work called Memoires de MarechalDue de Itichlieu, written by tho Abbe Soulavie ;THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK. 9in which it is asserted that “ the birth of theprisoner happened in the evening of the 5thiSeptember 1638, in presence of the chancellor,' the bishop of Meaux,the author of the MS., amidwife named Peronete, and a sieur Honorat.I This circumstance greatly disturbed the king’smind: he observed, that the Salique law hadijmade no provision for such a case. By theadvice of Cardinal Itichlieu, it was therefore(resolved to conceal his birth, but to preservehis life, in case, by the death of his brother, itshould be necessary to avow him. A declara¬tion was drawn up, and signed and sworn to'by all present, in which every circumstanceiwq,s mentioned, and several marks on his body. described. This document, being sealed by thei (chancellor with the royal seal, was delivered to[the king; and all took an oath never to speakon the subject, not even in private and amongi ll themselves. The child was delivered to thecare of Madame Peronete, to be under thedirection of Cardinal Richlieu, at whose deathilthe charge devolved to Cardinal Mazarin.iiMazarin appointed the author of the MS. hiscgovernor, and intrusted to him the care of his1 education.. But as the prisoner was extremelyI attached to Madame Peronete, and she equally0 so to him, she remained with him till her death.1 His governor carried him to his house in Bur-irgundy, where he paid the greatest attention toailhis education. As the prisoner grew up, he0! became impatient to discover his birth, and)‘l often importuned his governor on that subject,li His curiosity had been roused by observingy that messengers from the court frequently ar-v rived at the house ; and a box, containing let-I'iters from the queen and the cardinal, having10 THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.one day been inadvertently left out, he openedit^ and saw enough to guess at the secret.From that time he became thoughtful andmelancholy, ‘ which (says the author) I couldnot then account for. He shortly after askedme to get him a portrait of the late and pre¬sent king; but I put him off by saying that Icould not procure any that were good. Hethen desired me to let hint go to Dijon ; whichI have known since was with an intention ofseeing a portrait of the king there, and ofgoing secretly to St John de Lus, whorb thecourt then was on occasion of the marriagewith the Infanta. He was beautiful ; and'love helped him to accomplish his wishes. Hehad captivated the affections of a young house¬keeper, who procured him a portrait of theking. It might have served for either of thebrothers ; and the discovery put him into soviolent a passion, that he immediately came tome with the portrait in his hand, saying, Voilamon frere, et voiito qui je mis, shewing me, at thesame time, a letter of the Cardinal de Mazarin,that he had taken out of the box.1 Upon thisdiscovery, his governor immediately sent anexpress to court to communicate what had hap¬pened, and to desire new instructions ; the con¬sequence of which was, that the governor andthe young prince under his cafe were arrestedand confined.” The author of this memoirconcludes,—“ I have suffered with him in ourcommon prison : I am now summoned to ap¬pear before my Judge on high; and for thopeace of my soul I cannot but make this de¬claration, which may point out to him themeans of freeing himself from his present igno¬minious situation, in case the king, his brother,THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.11should die without children. Can an extortedoath compel, me to observe secrecy on a thingso incredible, but which ought to be left on re¬cord to posterity 2” 3. The third opinion is,that he was a son of the quean by CardinalMazarin, born about a year after the death ofher husband, Louis XIII.; that he was broughtup secretly; and that, soon after the death ofthe cardinal on the 9th March 1661, he wassent to Pignerol. To this account, FatherGriffet justly objects, “ that it was needless tomask a face that was unknown ; and, therefore,that this opinion does not merit discussion.”Indeed, it seems totally unaccountable that somuch care should have been taken to conceala child of the queen by the cardinal, who,whether they were privately married or not,could never have had the most distant claimto the crown of France. The conjectures ad¬vanced by other authors, that he was the Dukeof Monmouth, the Count of Vermandois, orthe Duke of Beaufort, &c., aro still more im¬probable.idftua vjTodtJ bib to ■ eL; inoifliloattr IfioiJjTaoqv-eloBneo doom o- oviooo.aonloii'Kioononoq/.ojiniHu vlbj'.'d) aid (dBui yd cnoin-aiioqaob mb TQ/Ort;i,nt an li nt({»,' jod boi! libnind,r.,,...... I / .na-itVftftBT/ 1^nijuD i9j[ dooij; iiiiw .I-jJaisod bna ; ?nai»JA ot. ! oTiqm i Tobliiu mil tflquiniihi .iitod onalfiaadoll m.full .ftBTi/ to yiio QilJ to aim;//idT . doJi A ‘to o-mivoiq Foy a Vi' ill 'to IsoJ 'Ti:,a3o f" id i-ad n ” d i. a t8laibn .lo'ta ’.f111oi^ Jol '‘Tom V'tOHloifi aid i'oddJmi'rrn .H8AM woAi-airtLonoixo no ncO THE LIFE’orfdiwgntflt ifl no V091-008 ' /i^edo om larfmo') / ‘ro-ot no ftol odf o) id^n.,bl noiiftqo liltxil oril .8 vino1ao<r o.« !>iooTHE BLOODY BOBESFIEERE.drigiitMl fefiw orf iorli ;.f IIX sinoiT d'ftftd^ud Tori ^Ilo j»j;ob oif* ioJV, : qo vrmw Oil ,Idol iioicM Hie oril no Ir.nfbiBO onl ioaon-firit •lo-ion^i'1 he very name oi KoBEsriEUBE o^cifces a varietyof disagreeable sensations,—wonder, rage, hor-ror, and revenge, occupy the bosom by turns.Of his countrymen, some claim a murderedparent, others their mangled sons and daugh¬ters ; the husband hig bleeding wife ; the. wifeher decollated husband. France, converted intoa charnel-house under his administration, be¬held more than an hundred thousaud of herchildren proscribed, starved, expatriated, as¬sassinated, and cut oft’, either with or withoutthe forms of law ! The patriot and the perfi¬dious citizen,-the republican and the royalist,the anarchist and the lover of order,—allecpially experienced his hatred, and perishedby his deadly enmity. Never did Liberty suffermore than by his hypocritical attachment;never did despotism receive so much consola¬tion ns arose from his cruelties. Tyrannybrandished her whips, and shook her chains,from Moscow to Algiers; and boasted, with aperfidious triumph, her milder empire !Maximilian llobespierre was born, in 1759,within the walls of the city of Arras, thecapital of the ci-demnt province of Artois. Theroyalists, as if fiction had been necessary torender his memory more detestable, pretendLIFE ROBESPIERRE.13that he was the nephew of that Damiens whoassassinated Louis XV. It is but justice, onthe contrary, to state, that liis family was bothancient and respectable; for his progenitorsliad .occupied some of the higher departmentsiof the magistracy, and appertained to that classformerly termed, by way of eminence, la noblessede la robe. H is father was an advocate of great(knowledge and purity; but, as economy wasHiot among his virtues, his two Sons an'd adaughter inherited nothing from him but hispoverty. His unsullied reputation, however,proved serviceable to his family ; for a relationundertook the maintenance of the female, anddhe two boys had the good fortune to be protect¬ed, or rather adopted, by the Bishop of Arras,i • Maximilian, the elder brother, was, accord¬ingly, educated under the immediate inspectionof this prelate, who, doubtless, instilled exeel-■lllent principles into his mind ; but malice, al¬ways active and always uncharitable, has tracedito this very source that consummate hypocrisywhich distinguished his pupil through life, andi which, it is pretended, he could have only ac¬quired under the tuition of a priest !At a proper age, young .Robespierre wassent to the college of Louis le Grand, a famousseminary, formerly under the direction 'of thoJ esuits. There he distinguished himself by hisassiduity and talents, and bore away the annualk prizes from all competitors of his own class,i I This—and it must bo allowed to have been avery honourable one—was the only distinguish¬ing characteristic of his youth ; for it is allowedthat be did not devblope even the germ of those! passions which influenced his bosom in his more< i advanced years, and rendered him not only theLIFE OF ROBE9PIEBRE.14scourge of his country, but of mankind. Pas¬chal, amidst the silence of his prison, meditatedon Euclid ; and Voltaire chalked the first linesof his Henriade on the walls of his dungeon;but Itobespierre did not discover his futuredestiny by anticipation; and it was the opinionof the professors, that his reputation wouldnever extend beyond the walls of the college inwhich he had been educated.At the age of seventeen, it was determinedthat he should be bred to the bar; and hisfriends, judging from his early success, alreadyimagined that he would dispute the palm ofeloquence with the first lawyers of France. Hewas, accordingly, committed to the care of aM. Ferrieres, nephew to an advocate of thesame name, who had distinguished himself byan excellent Treatise on Jurisprudence.It is asserted, however, that, notwithstand¬ing the repeated admonitions of that gentleman,Maximilian could never be prevailed upon topay any degree of attention to his professionalstudies. Incapable of application, disgustedwith the slightest difficulties, he is said to haveacquired an antipathy to knowledge, and tohave sworn a deadly enmity both to learningand learned men! v r <It was at first determined that he shouldpractise before the Parliament of Paris, butthis scheme was never carried into execution;for he returned to his native province, and wasadmitted an advocate in the Superior Councilof Artois.We do not find that he distinguished himselfthere by his eloquence ; and have every reasonto suppose that he would never have risen abovemediocrity, nor boon noticed in tho crowd ofLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.15provincial pleaders, had not an uncommon oc¬currence of circumstances elevated him to asituation in which the eyes of all Europe werefixed upon him. He, however, made himselfknown as an author, if not as an advocate ;for he published two treatises ai»out this time,I in one of which he explained the principles ofElectricity, and removed the vulgar prejudicesthat prevailed respecting conductors, the erec¬tion of which was opposed by the ignorant,under the pretence that they were impious, andbetter calculated to produce destruction thanensure safety.The other was on Death considered as apunishment. In this, all the modern govern¬ments were justly reproached for the sanguin¬ary laws still prevalent in their criminal codes,and doubts were hinted as to the right claimedby society of cutting off the life of an individual.No sooner had the letters of convocation tothe States-Gencral been issued, than Robes¬pierre determined to become a candidate. Heproved successful in his endeavours ; and was,accordingly, nominated one of the representa¬tives of his native province. He is said to havedrawn up the cahiers, or instructions ; by meansof which the electors were accustomed to regu¬late the conduct of their deputies.In the National Assembly, he sat and votedwith the cote gauche, or patriotic side ; and wassometimes confounded with the Orleanists, andsometimes with the Oonstitutionels. The for¬mer wished to place Philip on the throne ofLouis ; the latter were zealous for the adoptionof the English constitution. It is no less truethan singular, however, that Robespierre re¬mained in the greatest obscurity during the16LIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.first Legislature; and was considered as a pas¬sionate, hot-headed young man, whose chiefmerit consisted in his being warmly and sin¬cerely attached to the cause of liberty. It washo who first brought the term Aristocrat intocommon use. This occurred on Thursday, ^Nov. 19, 1790 ; when a deputation from a cor- |poration in the Cambresis having complainedat the bar of some abuses, the deputy for Arrasascended the tribune, and exclaimed, that thepetitioners deserved no favour, being them¬selves ( un corps aristocratiqm) an aristocraticalbody. The Assembly burst into a fit of laughteron the mention of this word : it, however, soon 'produced i'ar different sensations ! jIt was about this time that he became theeditor of a journal entitled UUnion, ou Journaltie la Liberie. The royalists, who accuse him ofgrogs ignorance, enumerate, with exultation,the geographical, political, and even gramma¬tical blunders daily exhibited in this newspa- jper. It is allowed by every one that it wasconducted with extreme violence, and displayedbut little taste or genius. Indeed, the exag¬gerating disposition of the editor had broughthim into some degree of contempt; and it wasat that time customary to remark, with a kindof satirical eulogiuni,—que Mirabeau etoit foflam¬beau tie la Provence, and Robespierre la chandelled'Arras /—that Mirabeau was the flambeau ofProvence, and Ilobcspierre the candle of Arras!This much is certain, that he never was electedinto any of the committees, or honoured withthe president’s chair in the first Assembly.To the Society of the Jacobins, Robespierreis indebted for all his celebrity and all hispower. He became their chief; and it was theLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.17I embers of this body who first propagated theea, “that the Assembly had ruined France,nd Robespierre could alone save it!”It is but candid here to confess that his con-mct in the Legislative Body was pure and un¬spotted ; that he stedfastly opposed the inte-fested revision of the constitution, and with-tood every temptation arising from the cor-juption so prodigally administered by the court.Uas ! this very circumstance, in the end, ren-iered him more dangerous to Liberty, and theurname of Incorruptible enabled him to sacri-ce all his real or supposed enemies to his'engeance.i Robespierre did not refuse to fill subordi¬nate offices, as has been asserted : he, however,lid not retain them any considerable time. Hewas first nominated President of the Tribunalbf the district of Versailles; and was, conse-yjyently, empowered to decide both in civil andcriminal affairs, as the juries had not been thenorganized. Having resigned this employment,he next obtained that of Accusateur-Public tothe Criminal Tribunal of the department ofParis, which he also held but for a short period.His conduct in the ejcercise of these functionsistands unimpeached: no one instance of cruelty’ or injustice has been adduced by the bitterest' of his enemies ; and had the court but proved• J faithful to that constitution, from which it could:inot recede without the foulest perjury, Robes-ij pierre would never have been elevated to thei dictatorship !| It was during the ^National Convention that}l this man attained the summit of his ambition.] In the first Legislature ho had joined theb patriots, in the second he declared for the re-ISLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.publicans: in both, his party had piovod victJJrioiis. It was in the third that he himself wall'doomed to triumph, not only over his rivals!*but his country.The Commme of Paris, the Jacobin Societyand even the Assembly itself, were filled vvitlhis creatures, and became obedient to his connmands. In short, the nation looked up to himas to a saviour.No sooner, however, had he attained thtgiddy eminence of power, than his natunseems to have experienced a total change ; ancRobespierre, like many others, here affords Imemorable instance of the effects of sudderelevation in debasing the human mind, bymaking it ferocious. Rendered cruel by habitand suspicion, both royalists and republicansequally experienced his vengeance; a numberof the first were cruelly butchered in prison;and of the latter, Brissot, Yergniaux, GensonnejValaze, &c., &c., fell by the guillotine; while:the ex-minister Roland, and the celebratedex-secretary Condorcet, were reduced to themelancholy necessity of putting themselves todeath. In the Girondists perished nearly Allthat was great and amiable in France; inMadame Roland fell the first female genius ofher ago; in the person of her husband, virtueitself was outraged; while, in the executionsof Condorcet, Lavoisier, and Bailly, sciencereceived a mortal and irrecoverable stab.The proscriptions of Sylla and Marius wereonce more renewed in the most polished countryof modern Europe, and in an age, too, boastfulof its studied refinements. Suspected persons,or, in other words, every one cither dreaded orhated by those in power, were arrested r domi-LIFE OF HOBESPIKKRE.19'‘imry visits awakened the sleeping victims ofersecution to misery and destruction; whilevolutionary tribunals condemned them byres, unpitied, and even unheard. The lawsere no longer maintained ; the idea of a con-itution became intolerable ; all power wasoncentrated, as among the eastern nations ;e government degenerated into a TurkishJivan : it was the Committee of Public Safetyhat regulated every thing, that absolved or■ ried, that spoiled or enriched, that murderedi ir saved ; and this committee was entirely re-(1 ’ulated by the will of Robespierre, who go-" erned it by the means of his creatures, St JustMind Couthon.He reserved for himself, however, the imme¬diate superintendence of the revolutionary tribu-:tafo,and was accustomed, at night, to mark downthe victims who were to perish before the set¬ting of the morrow’s sun.The execution of four or five a-day did notaliate his vengeance ; the murder of thirty orbrty was demanded, and obtained : the streetsecame deluged with blood ; canals were ne-essary to convey it to the Seine; and experi-ents were actually made at the Bicetre with,n instrument for cutting off half a score headst ft single motion !Amidst this accumulation, however, of seem-:i;ingly irresistible authority, Robespierre was onthe brink of ruin. The whole of the old Gi-<1 rondist party was indeed subdued and silent;but many members of the Convention still re¬mained attached to it. The party of theMountain, by means of whom Robespierre hadrisen to power, found themselves not only dis-' regarded, but ready at every instant to fall aLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.::20 LIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.sacriftoe to that system of terror which thehad contributed to erect. Even the Jacobin!themselves, though neither timid nor cautionin the shedding of blood, began to murmurwhen they saw that awful privilege confinedwithin a few hands, or rather monopolized byan individual.In this state, things remained for some timeand it appeared how possible it is for an inrdividual to govern a great nation even whilethe whole of that nation is hostile to his poaver;One circumstance tended much to acceleratethe fall of Robespierre. He had procured adecree to be passed, authorizing the Committeeof Public Safety to imprison at its pleasure, andbring to trial, any member of the Convention.All the individuals of that body found them¬selves placed by this decree in the power of aman whose severe and suspicious temper theywell knew. Still, however, they were so muchsurrounded by spies, that it was difficult toform a party or plan of operations; even themajority of the Committee of Public Safety wereamong the number of the discontented, butthey dared not to withstand theh'chief. At last,on the 25th of July 1705, the Convention be¬gan to exhibit signs of agitation. It was un¬derstood, that, in the course of a few days,Robespierre would sacrifice xa number of themembers to his suspicionsOn the 26th, the sitting of the Conventionwas still more tempestuous. In a long speech,Robespierre defended his own conduct againstthose who accused him of aspiring to the dic¬tatorship. He attacked the party styledModerates, as . wishing to overturn the revolu¬tionary government, and to restore the feebleLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.21system of the Brissotines. The result of along debate was, that Robespierre was appa¬rently victorious, and his speech was orderedto be printed. But, on the 27th, the Conven¬tion appeared ripe for a change: St Just, amember of the Committee of Public Safety, inattempting to defend Robespierre, was repeat¬edly interrupted; and Billaud Varennes enume¬rated the crimes, and proclaimed the tyranny,of Robespierre. The speech was received withbursts of applause. Robespierre in vain at-ij tempted to defend himself; he was silencedby shouts of execration from every part ofthe hall. Tallien seconded the former speaker| in his accusation. The sitting was declaredI permanent, and a decree of arrest was passed! against Robespierre and his younger brother,along with St Just, Couthon, and Lebas.These men left the Convention, and found secu¬rity in the hall of the Commune of Paris ; wherethe municipal officers agreed to protect and' stand by them. The tocsin was sounded ; the( armed force was under their command ; an in¬i' surrection was therefore attempted against theConvention : but the sections of Paris refusedi their support. Very few of the troops couldI be collected, and these were not firm ; the latetyraTfriy had become odious. The hall of thei Commune was therefore speedily surrendered ;and about three o’clock a m. of the 28th, Robes-j pierre and his associates were made prisoners.They had been outlawed by the Convention,on account of their resistance.On the morning of the 10th Thermidor, (July28, 1794,) he was led to execution, amidsrt theexecrations of the people, with one eye hangingout of the socket, and his lower jaw attached22 LIFE OF RdBESPiERRE.to the upper by means of a handkerchief, fthad been separated by a musket-ball.Thus perished Maximilian Itobespierrd, inthe thirty-fifth year of his age. His characterdoes not possess the least resemblance 4o anyof the illustrious ruffians of antiquity, who havebeen rendered memorable either by their crimesor their exploits. Sylla and Marius, bred upto arms, and inured to warfare, were both braveto excess. Julius, before he crossed the Rubi¬con, and became the tyrant of his country, haddisplayed uncommon personal courage on manyoccasions. Jllven the luxurious Antony, andthe vile Augustus—the latter of whom it hasbeen too long the fashion to praise—were attimes capable of exhibiting instances of intre¬pidity. Cataline, in the very hour of his death,was terrible ; for his mutilated corpse was sur¬rounded by heaps that had perished by his ownhand. But Robespierre was a base coward,who, on all occasions, was solicitous for his ownsafety, and trembled like a woman at the veryidea of danger. He was bold only in wordsand gestures.On the 10th of August he hid himself asusual, and only came out of his lurking hole toclaim the triumphs of that memorable day.Even on the 1st, 2d, and 3d of September, heis said to have been concealed, until ho couldsafely reap all the advantages of the barbarousmurders committed by his partisans.The person of Robespierre was below themiddle size ; the temperament of his body wasnervous and irritable ; and he had somethinghideous in his aspect, which was greatly in¬creased by means of a pair of green spectacle's.This acquired him the appellation of the Dragon:LIFE OF BOBESPIERllE. 23that of the Basilisk would, perhaps, have beeni more appropriate.He affected to be called a Sans-Culotte ; buthis clbthes were always chosen with taste ; andi his hair was constantly dressed and powdered,with a precision that bordered on foppery. Hewas but an indifferent orator; for his person*voice, and provincial accent, militated againstthe grand characteristics of eloquence. Hewas generally deficient, also, in point of compo¬sition : his speech, however, on the trial ofLouis XVI. is an exception. That on therecognition of the Supreme Being is said tohave been written by a member of one of theci-devant academies.i It was the idea of his virtue, and confidencelin his principles, that procured him the un¬bounded estdem of a corrupt age. Until ii>toxicated with power, his conduct and moralsmust be allowed to have been unimpeachable.i1 While a private man, he exhibited virtues thatseemed to render him worthy of command; andit was not till he was vested with supremeauthority, that, like the deified Crnsars of an-i cient times, he threw off the character of hu¬manity, and became a demon. He was nevera republican ; for the idea of a commonwealthsupposes a restraint on governors, as well as on'the governed ; and, if we are to believe theassertion of an illustrious woman, (MadameRoland,) who was basely murdered by him, hewas accustomed to sneer on the mention of the‘term, and ask what it meant.After the fall of Robespierre, the Conventiontexhibited no small change of appearance. In¬stead of that silence which formerly prevailed,24I.IFE OF ROBESPIERRE.all was bustle and noise; all accused eachother. There was no longer any leader, andthere was no formed party. The formersystem of terror was declared at an end; anda new system of moderatism succeeded. Thiswas carried to as great a height as the systemof terror had formerly been; and all moanswere taken to render popular the fall of theirlate tyrant. The committees were organizedanew, and their members ordered to be fre¬quently changed. The correspondence bertween the affiliated Jacobin Clubs was pro¬hibited, and at last the Jacobin Club itself 'was abolished. This last event was dccom-jplished with ease ; and that society, which had !been the great engine of the Revolution, was|itself, without resistance, overturned : 71 depu¬ties of the Girondist party, who had been im¬prisoned since the 31st of May 1793, were set;tadt eouiiiv bof rdirfxo oil elnvhq r, olirlW-ml do loiommlo edf fto wemfi [• .somiJ Inebfltlfiav/fromfiicib n lo dv e* •jol ; unoildnqyi nno sc Ilew an taion-[07og no tnin-un n Heaoqqusexit ovo'ljd of oar, ov/ It (bn.c jboft’to/og dtoil ,niiH '{d beiobfcm ^loar.d ec rx orlv/ (tbnx5lolIat libertyxcood baa .vtiiix inY/foxlt no xmoiaix.G ?.GWf.