HISTORY OF THEOF ENGLANDFROMWILLIAM THE CONQUEROR TO THE PRESENT TIMEGLASGOW.-PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1856.**• ,* •. Mr, io THoraiawmw (ika &;>mitGi1AJ0M3 ^0•■•T- ^ - '!. ; f/'- HtZJIfV*> V.-! !.!"•• • ■ ; aai ■( ' • o i.n?.8i./ '>■ •.^nra s>aO «»oi.iri;•. ^HISTORY07 THJtHNGS AND QUEENS OF ENGLAND,FROMWILLIAM THE CONQUERORTOTHE PRESENT TIME.NORMAN KINGS.WILLIAM I. William the Conqueror was the naturalan of Robert, duke of Normandy, by Arlotte, a skinner’suughter. He was born at Falaise in 1026; succeeded hisither as duke of Normandy, in 1035; and, after his victoryt Hastings, in Sussex, he was crowned king of England Oilic 1 Jth October, 1066.He was a prince of atil and portly stature, aiibust constitution, and) great strength that fewlien could bend bis bow.He is allowed to have pos-Lssed great courage andopacity ; hut his disposi-lon was jealous and vin-l.ctive; and his deportmentjpughty and reserved. Heited at Rouen, in Norman-i, on they tli of September,j)S7, in the 61st year ofis ago.i In this reign the English were obliged to put out their firelid candle every evening at the ringing of a bell called theJjrfew. Surnames were also first introduced, and the court*i Exchequer and Chancery established.WILLIAM II., surnamed Rufus, from his red hair an*jGorid complexion, was born in the year 1056, and succeede*his father on the 27th oSeptember, 1087. He wa:proud, ignorant, and profligate; and after a reigtof 13 years, he was accidentally wounded in theNew Forest, by WalteiTyrrel, his particulaifavourite. This wouncoccasioned his death oilthe 2d of August, 1100in the 45th year of hisage.In this reign Westmin,ster hall was built; anti500 houses in Londonwere blown down by a tempest.HENRY I. As William II. left no legitimate issue, the)government devolved on his brother Henry, who was crownedion August 5, 1100. This prince was of a middle stature am#robust make, with dark)brown hair and blue eyes.JHe had naturally a good!capacity, which was soimuch cultivated, that hejacquired the name oilBeauclerc, or the fineischolar; he was also tem-jperate in his diet, and!facetious and affable with)his favourites; but these]good qualities were sullied !bv cruelty, avarice, and'debauchery. He died onDecember 1, 1135, after alreign of 35 years; and his Ibody was buried at Reading, in Berkshire.Under this prince the English were restored to the liberty |of using fire and candle by night; and the order of KnightsTemplars was founded.5HOUSE OF BLOiS.STEPHEN, son of Stephen, Earl of Blois, and of Adela,aughter of William I., succeeded his uncle, and was crownedt Westminster, on December 26, 1135. He was a princef great courage, fortitude,'md activity; and thoughis necessities sometimesObliged him to take suchMeasures for his safety as■irere inconsistent withrnonour, he was naturally.wave, open, and liberal;t.nd his patience andEitnency were particularlynspicuous. He diedrtober 28, 1154, in the110th year of his age, andi^he 19th of his reign.Among the remarkable;vents of this reign may3e noticed, the destruction of a great part of London by fire,'and the first introduction of the canon law.HENRY II. was the son of Geoffrey Plantagenet, andthe empress Maud, daughter of Henry I. He was born atMans, March 4, 1133; and crowned December 20, 1154. Inhis person the Norman andSaxon blood were united,and in him commenced therace of the Plantagencts.Henry was generous, mer¬ciful, polite, learned, andcourageous; but he wasunfortunately incontinent,prone to anger, and tran¬sported with the lust ofi power. He died at Chinon,un Touraine, on the 6th of1 July, 1189, in the 57th yearof his age, and the 35th ofhis reign.In this reign Thomas-a-Becket was murdered in Canterbury Cathedral, and the king! went in pilgrimage to visit his tomb.RICHARD I, surnamed Lion’s Heart, succeeded hidfather on the 6th July, 1189. In his person he was tall.lgraceful, and well proportioned; with blue sparkling eyes.and yellow hair, inclinin':to red. He was an illus¬trious warrior, aud poS'sessed a fund of eloquence;but his character wasstained with ambition, cruelty, and debauchery; andhis thirst for military glorymade him neglect the hap¬piness of his people. His:death was occasioned by awound at the siege of Cha-luz, in Limousin, of whichhe died, April 6, 1199, inthe 43d year of his age,and the 10th of his reign.In this reign the city of London had first a mayor, andwas divided into corporations, now called companies.JOHN, surnamed Lackland, was the fourth son of HenryII., and after the death of his brother, Richard I., he ascendedthe throne in 1199. His reign was disturbed by a variety ofvexations and disappoint¬ments ; and at length griefand fatigue threw him intoa fever, which was aug¬mented by eating peachesand drinking new ale. Hedied at Newark, October18, 1216, in the 51st yearof his age, and the 17th ofhis reign. His generalcharacter was such that hewas contemned and hatedby his subjects, abhorredby the clergy, and des¬pised by all the neighbour¬ing princes of Europe.In this reign sterling money was first coined in England,and the famous Magna Charta 'granted by the king atRunnymede.7HENRY III. This prince socceeded his father on the28th of October, 1216, when he was only 9 years of age. Hiscountenance had a peculiar cast from his left eye-lid, whichwas so long as to coverpart of the eye. He wasof an inconstant and capri¬cious disposition; arrogantin prosperity, and abjectin adversity. He was aprince ofvery mean talents,and his desire of arbitrarypower involved him inperpetual diflicutties. Hedied at London on the 16thNovember, 1272, aged 65,in the 56th year of hisreign.In his reign Wales waswholly subdued, and go-verned bv the English laws; tiles were introduced in build! n«na fine imen was first made in England.iiDWARD I., son of Henry III., and surnamed Long¬shanks, was born June 16, 1239, and was crowned on the '9thor August, 1274, having returned from a glorious crusadeagainst the Saracens. Hewas an excellent king, anaffectionate father, andequally famed as a legis¬lator and a warrior. Hiskleportment was also chasteland regular; yet he cher-lished a dangerous ambi-don, to which the good oflis country was sometimeslacrificed. He died atBrough on the Sands, inCumberland, on July 7,11307, in the 68th year ofIbis age, and 35th of hisreign.In this reign Westminster, ,   Abbey was finished. 60 yearsifter itjvas founded; and the mngnetic needle first brought9EDWARD II. This prince was born at Caernarvon, .tApril 25, 1284, and succeeded his father in 1307, at 23 years <nf ace He seems to have inherited the defects of his father, .6 ' without his valour or ca- |pacity. He was indolent Band irresolute; and to a tviolent attachment to the breigning favourite, he sacri- !■ficed every consideration of ppolicy and convenience, fIn 1327 he was compelled |to resign the crown to his |son Edward; and after en- |during the greatest indig- pnities, he was barbarously |murdered in Berkley Castle, |after a reign of 20 years. IIn this reign there was fthe most alarming earth- |nuake that had ever been felt in England; and a famine fwhich lasted three years, and destroyed a great number ot .people.EDWARD III. was born November 15, 1312, and wasplaced on the throne of England, January 26, 1327, whilehis unfortunate father was living. He was affable, courteous,and eloquent; and was oneof the greatest princes thatever swayed the Englishsceptre, whether he beconsidered as a warrior, alegislator, a monarch, or aman. The love of glory,however, was his predo¬minant passion, and to thishe sometimes sacrificedthe interests of his people.He died at Richmond, inSurrey, June 21, 1377, inthe 65th year of his age,and the 51st of his reign.During this reign goldwas first coined in England, and the art of weaving silkintroduced from Elanders.9RICHARD II., son of Edward the Black Prince, wasoom January 6, 1366; and succeeded his grandfather June!1, 1377, at 11 years of age. He was weak, vain, inconstant,nd a dupe to flattery. Byis imprudence he inducedJiis subjects to take up arms^gainst him, and after variousficissitudes he was deposedon the 30th September, 1399,und sent prisoner to Ponte-ifact castle in Yorkshire.Here he was attacked on the',4th February, 1400, by SiriPierce Exton, and eight ruf-iians; and though he slewlour of the assassins, he wasmurdered by Exton, in the•«3d year of his age, and 23dd his reign.i In this reign took place the appointment of the first highidmiral of England; and the discovery of Greenland.  y'.AHOUSE OF LANCASTER.HENRY IV., Duke of Lancaster, and son to John ofGaunt, was born in 1367, and began his reign after the de-loosition of Richard II., on the 30th September, 1399. Heaose to the throne by per-jidy and rebellion ; hisiteign was disturbed by per¬petual insurrections, andads authoritywas establishedi n the blood of his subjects,ale performed few actionsworthy of commendation;ilnd, as the first burner ofheretics, he fixed an indeli¬ble stain on his memory,sle died at Westminster,wlarch 20, 1413, in the 46thsrear of his age, and 14thIf his reign.t In this reign Geoffreylhaucer, the poet, died; and a plague raged in London,iVhieh swept away above 30,000 of the inhabitants.10HENRY V. This princt, eldest son of Henry IV., was:iborn at Monmouth, in 1388, and succeeded his father in,1413. In his person he was tall and slender, with elegantlyformed limbs, and a veryengaging aspect. He washardy, patient, and laborious,,and equally chaste, tem-;perate, and devout; of con¬summate policy in the cabi¬net, and scrupulously just inhis administration ; thesegreat qualities, however,were somewhat obscured byambition, and a naturalpropensity to cruelty. Hedied atVincennes, in France,;August 31, 1422, in the34th year of his age, and.the 10th of his reign.In this reign Holborn was paved by royal command, andthe two courts of England and France were held at Paris.HENRY VI. was bom December 6,1421, and succeededhis father when only nine months old. He was a chaste,pious, and compassionate prince; but he had unfortunately aweakness of mind whichrendered him incapable ofgoverning without the as¬sistance of others. Histcrown was wrested fromhim by Edward^ Earl ofMarch, in 1461, and hewas compelled to flee intoScotland. After a seconddefeat, he was taken pri-sonerand sent to theTower.He was restored to histhrone by the Earl of War¬wick ; but in a few monthshe was murdered in theTower, in the 50th year ofhis age.In this reign Eton College, and King's College, werefounded; and the first Lord Mayor’s show in London.11HOUSE OP YORK.EDWARD IV., son of Richard, Duke of York, obtainedthe crown March 5, 1461, after defeating Henry VI. andcompelling him to flee into Scotland. He was a prince ofthe most elegant personand pleasing-address; andpossessed ah' uncommon VShare of fortitude, sagacity,and penetration; but lie ¥:;ii ¥ 'ffLwas cruel, perfidious, lewd, jPand rapacious, without theleast sentiment of human-ity. He died at West- -j, .'.VKminster, on April 9, 1483, **%&&&■ vV..in the 4*»d year of his .••v.e, f[''< and the 23d of Ids reign.! His remains were interred /•’i at Windsor. : .In th's reign printing 13■ was introduced into .-4. England; and the first printing-press set up in Isiip’s chapel,Westminster Abbey. 1EDWARD V. Tins1470; succeeded his fatheri only 2 months and 12• (lays ; himself and hisbrother, the Duke of York,being sent to the Towerby their uncle Richard,. Duke of Gloucester, underpretence of waiting forthe coronation; but inl reality to be murdered,j They were accordinglyl smothered in their bed byI two ruffians, employedI by Sir J. Tyrrol; whot was executed in the reigni of Henry VII., for tinsi abominable action.unfortunate prince was born inat 12 years of age, and reignedISRICHARD HI., surnaraed Crook-back, was the brotherof Kdward IV., and paved his way to the throne by a seriesof the most cruel murders. He was proclaimed king on the20th of June, 1483, andwas crowned on the 6th ofJuly. He was short instature, with a cloudy andforbidding aspect; one ofhis arms also was withered,and one shoulder higherthan the other. He pos¬sessed uncommon judg¬ment, penetration, elo¬quence, and courage; butthrough his whole life heseems to have been a com¬plete tyrant. He waskilled in the battle ofBosworth-field, on the 22dof August, 1485, in the 34th year of his age, after an infamousreign of 2 years.THE FAMILIES UNITED.HENRY VII. , Earl of Richmond, of the Lancaster line,was crowned on the 30th of October, 1485; and by hismarriage with Elizabeth, daughter of Edward IV., the claimsof York and Lancasterwere united. He was achaste, temperate, brave,and politic prince; assid¬uous in the exercise ofreligious duties, and decentin his deportment: he wasremarkably close and mis¬trustful, and insatiablycovetous. He died atRichmond Palace, on the22d of April, 1509, in the52d year of his age, andthe 24th of his reign.In this reign, maps andsea-charts were first broughtInto England; and America and the West Indies werediscovered by Christopher Columbus.13HENRY VIII. This prince was born June 2Sih, 1491;und succeeded liis i'athcr April 22d. 1509. Before he grew>oo corpulent, Henry was a graceful prince, and of a verycommanding aspect. HePossessed a good under¬standing, and was fond ofstudy; but he was rash,l.rrogant, pedantic, super-Sititious, and addicted toaruelty. He died on the!'8th of January, 1547, inshe 56th year of his age,>:,nd the 38th of his reign,) nd was buried at Windsor.[ In this reign Wales wasitnited with England; theReformation in religionjegan by Martin Luther;she religious houses inEngland were dissolved; and muskets, cannon, and mortarsJrst made in this country.EDWARD VI. This prince, only son of Henry VIII.,tras born October 12,1537, and ascended the throne in 1547 ;< t which time (though only ten years of age) he was welllikilled in the Latin and'french languages, and hadibtained some knowledgei f the Greek, Spanish, andhtalian. His person waspery beautiful, and he wasu[]ually beloved for his pietyhnd humanity. He foundedJ'iveral schools and hospitals,find evinced the firmestattachment to the reformedjidigion. He died of a con-rrmption, on the 6th July,c553, in the 16th year of hisoge and 7th of his reign.I During this reign, crowns and half-crowns were first coined,tad the horse guards first instituted.14MARY, daughter of Henry VIII., and Catherine o;Arragon, was born February 18, 1515, and obtained th«crown in 1553, after deposing the unfortunate Lady Jan>Grey, whom she caused tfhe beheaded, with LoreDudley, and other personsof quality. Her chief char-,acteristics were bigotryand revenge, and nearly)300 persons suffered niar-jtyrdom for the cause oljreligion, by her command.liShe espoused Philip II.,king of Spain, but had nohappiness in that union.She died on the 17th No¬vember, 1558, in the 43dJtyear of her age, and thet6th of her sanguinary reign.In this reign two small towns in Nottinghamshire were*beaten down by a thunder-storm, and by hailstones./ELIZABETH, daughter of Henry VIII., and AnnBoleyn, was born September 8, 1533, and was crowned onthe 15th of January, 1559. She possessed remarkable pene¬tration and depth of judg¬ment ; she was also aconsummate politician, andher reign was the school otable ministers, great states¬men, and distinguishedwarriors. She was never:married, her policy makingher averse to the marriagestate. Under her patron¬age the English enjoyed afelicity unknown to theirancestors. She died March24, 1603, in the 70th yearof her age, and 45th of herreign.In this reign the Armada of Spain was defeated anddestroyed; the foundation of the Royal Exchange, London,was laid; watches were first introduced from Germany.ISHOUSE OF STUART.JAMES I. of England, and VI. of Scotland, was the sonof Henry Stuart, and the unfortunate Mary, Queen of Scots.He was born June 19, 1566, and ascended the throne ofEngland in 1603, pursuantto the will of Queen Eliz¬abeth. He exhibited re¬peated instances of preju¬dice, folly,ridiculous vanity,and littleness of soul; buthis reign, though ignoble tohimself, was happy to hispeople, who enjoyed theblessing of peace, and wereenriched by commerce.He died March 27, 1625,in the 59th year of his age,and 23d of his reign overGreat Britain.In this reign, EnglandandScotland were united by the name of Great Britain; and thepresent translation of the Bible finished.W?s born at Dunfermline, in Scotland on°f JS0Vemfe)r’ 1(K?°- and succeeded his father inU^tuHneatTrCsS“d°dCSt’ We’Unfortunately, he sufferedhimself to be guided byhis counsellors, and paidtoo much deference tothe advice of his consort,who was supers titiouslyattached to the errors ofpopery, and who involvedhim in a sad series ofti calamities. After a civilz war had been carried oni for some time between this /c prince and his parliament, ^£ he was brought to trial,i and sentence of deathpassed upon him: he was beheaded at Whitehall, on the 30tlof January, 1649, in the 49th year of his age, and the 24tlK ot his reign.uINTERREGNUM. From the death of Charles I., untilthe year 1660, there was an Interregnum, and England wasgoverned by the Parliament known by the name of Baieboncsgo\eini.u y Parliament, Oliver Crom¬well being at the head. Hewas proclaimed Lord Pro¬tector of the Common wealthof England, Scotland, andIreland. In 1657 the Par¬liament agreed to ofterCromwell the regal title;but he declined it. Hedied on the 3d of September,1658, of a tertian ague.He was 95 years old, andwas Protector 9 years.After Oliver’s death, hisson Richard was proclaimedProtector; but as he hadneither ability nor resolution to defend that title, hesl?°^'aformal abdication. He died at Cheshunt, in Hertfordshne,in the year 1712.jCHARLES II. This prince was born on May 29,1630.After an exile of 15 years in France and Holland, he wasrestored by General Monk. On May 29 1660, he made histriumphal entry into Lon¬don, and was crowned thefollowing year. He pos¬sessed a clear judgment,and extensive understand¬ing, and a strong talent ofwit and ridicule; he waseasy in conversation, affa¬ble to all, and liberal evento prodigality. He was alibertine in his morals,abandoned to effeminatepleasures, regardless of theallurements of glory, andevidently incapable of anynoble enterprise. He diedFebruary 6, 1635, in the 55th year of his age, and the 25tbof his reign.17JAMES II., second son of Charles I., was born at Lon¬don, October 14, 1633; and on the death of his brother bewas proclaimed kinR, having promised to preserve thegovernment both of churchand state, though he vio¬lated this promise two daysafterwards, by going pub¬licly to mass. He wasproud, cruel, vindictive, andunrelenting ; his good qua-■ lities were rendered ineffec-Itual by mistaken notions ofthe prerogative, excessivebigotry to the Romishchurch, and an inflexible* severity of temper. Theo nation, alarmed by the king’sr attempt to re-establish po¬pery, applied for assistanceto William, prince of Orange; on whose arrival, in 1668,James abdicated his throne, and retired privately to France.He died at St. Germains, on September 16, 1701, aged 68.N"WILLIAM III. and MARY II. William III. wasthe son of William Nassau, prince of Orange, by the eldestdaughter of Charles I. He was born November 14, 1650;and in 1677 married theprincess Mary, eldest daugh¬ter of James II. They wereproclaimed king and queenof England, on the 10th ofFebruary, 1689, and crownedthe 11th April following.On the 28th of December,1694, Mary fell a victim tothe small-pox. She en¬joyed the most perfectfelicity with her consort.William was sagacious,religious, and temperate;and in courage, fortitude,and equanimity, he rivalledthe greatest warriors of antiquity. He was on all occasionsan enemy to oppression. He died on the 8th March, 1702,in the 52d year of his age, and the 14th of his reign.IBANNE. This amiable princess was the daughter ofJames II., and as king William died without issue, she wasproclaimed queen on the 8th March, 1702, and was crownedon the 23d of April follow¬ing. She was a patternof conjugal and maternaltenderness, a munificentpatron, an indulgent mis¬tress, and a mercifulprincess. If not thegreatest, she was certainlyone ofthe mostunblemishedsovereigns that ever gracedthe British throne. Shedied on the 1st of August,1714, in the 50th year ofher age, and the 13th ofher reign. She left nochildren, though she hadsix by her consort, Prince George of Denmark.In this reign the kingdoms of Kngland and Scotland wereunited.HOUSE OF HANOVER.GEOEGE I. This prince was the eldest son of ErnestAugustus, elector of Hanover, was horn May 28, 1P80; suc¬ceeded his father in the electorate, in 1698; and on thedeath of queen Anne, wasproclaimed king of Eng¬land. On the 20th Sep¬tember, 1714, he madehis public entry, attendedby above 200 coaches ofthe nobility and gentry.Before he ascended theBritish throne, he hadacquired the character of acircumspect general, a wisepolitician, and a mercifulprince ; and if he did not,in every instance, governhis new subjects accordingto the maxims of their constitution, his deviations must beimputed to the influence of a corrupt ministry. He died June1 1, 1727, in the 6Sth year of his age, and 13th of his reign.19GEORGE II. was proclaimed king of Great Britain onthe 15th of June, 1727. In his disposition he was brave andhumane; and though naturally hasty, he was soon appeased.The circumstances thati ehiefly marked his public) character was a predilectiont for his native country, and aJ close attention to the politicali interestsoftheGermanicbody.The close of his reign was) distinguished with most glo-Jrious events for this kingdom,in the overthrow of its natu-i ral foreign enemies in everyt) part of the world, and in theM most salutary harmony thatI prevailed at home amongstt all ranks of people. On theS 25th of October, 1760, a rup-r; ture took place in the right ventricle of his Majesty’s heart,r. which occasioned his sudden death, in the 77th year of hisif age, and the 34th of his reign.^G^ORGili III,, king of Great Britain, horn 4th Jane,' 1733, was the eldest son of Frederick, Prince of Wales. Hef ascended the throne on the 25th of October, 17C0, being thenin his 23d year.No possessor of the Englishii throne ever commenced ai career with greater popularity, . s'lor with more favourable anti- Wmfb i-\[icipations: lie was young and 'frhandsome, had an excellent(constitution, was of unspotted:reputation, and enjoyed the■advantage of being the firstsovereign of the line whose %birth and education were iiicntirely English.Notwithstanding the suc-f'.re is of his Majesty’s arms, inllml quarters of the wprkl, England was involved to such anJtexteut, that, at the surrender of Buonaparte, our nationalffl iebt had increased to the almost insupportable sum of nearlyfoiie thousand millions of pounds.20GEORGE IV. This prince was bom 12th August, 1762.He was married to Caroline, his first cousin, the daughter ofthe Duke of Brunswick Oels. By her he had an only daugh¬ter the Princess Char¬lotte, who died at thebirth of her first (andstill-born)child. GeorgeIV., when Prince ofWales, though in thereceipt of a handsomeincome, acquired habitsof gaiety and extrav¬agance to such an ex¬tent, as to be obliged tosolicit the aid of Par¬liament to relieve himfrom some heavy pe¬cuniary difficulties.It is much to beregretted that an un¬happy difference withbis consort, rendered him very ""P^Toth of^Smign"026, 1830, in the 63th year of his age, and 10th ot his reign.h“ b,°,™»ATSslavery, by a vote oftwenty millions paidto the slave-owners, asa compensation for thefreedom of all slavesin the West Indies.Also, in this shortreign of 7 years, thecriminal code w’asrendered less severe,but more prompt andcertain in its opera¬tion. He died atWindsor, on June 20,1S37, in the 72d yearof his age.21VICTORIA I. Our present illustrious Queen is thesole offspring of Edward, Duke of Kent, fourth son of GeorgeIII. , by the widow of the Prince of Leiningen. Victoriawas born on the 24th of May, 1819, succeeded to the thronewithin a month after attain¬ing the age of 18, on thedeath of her uncle, WilliamIV. , and was crowned on the28th of June in the followingyear. The principal featureof the ceremony of the coro¬nation, was a grand pro¬cession through the streetsof London, attended by alarge number of military,and ambassadors with theirsuites from all the courts ofEurope and the UnitedStates. On this interestingoccasion, people of all ages,sexes, conditions, professions, and trades, assembled to greettheir youthful sovereign. The display of beauty, fashion, andwealth, surpassed every thing of the kind that was ever beforeknown or recorded ; and the number of persons who witnessedthe procession, from the palace in St. James’s Park to West¬minster Abbey, has been estimated at two millions,—thecheerful good humour, and enthusiasm for the young queen,which prevailed in this enormous multitude, giving promiseof a happy and glorious reign.The year 1838 also witnessed the completion of the rail¬way from London to Birmingham, as well as another connect¬ing Birmingham with Liverpool; by which gigantic andi unparalleled undertakings, passengers, goods, and the mail1 bags, are conveyed a distance of more than 200 miles in 8I hours. The same year will also be memorable on account of) several large steam-vessels having, for the first time, crossedI the stormy Atlantic, from England to New York, in safety,[ and with comparative comfort, in the short period of twelve> days. In this year, also, an act was passed for the abolition' of imprisonment for debt; and poor laws were established,. and tithes abolished in Ireland.In the year 1839, an Act was passed in the Houses ofi Parliament for a general reduction of postage duties, andt the substitution of an uniform rate of one penny upon everyI half-ounce, irrespective of distance, instead of the high rates1 of postage then in existence, which greatly restricted com-22mercial cnterprize, and acted as a grievous tax upon the poor.Although the measure caused a deficiency in the post-officerevenue at the time, it was more than compensated by theimpetus which it gave to industry and commerce, and thelapse of a few years has proved that it was founded in wisdomand upon sound principles.Her most gracious Majesty, Queen Victoria, was married,to Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, on the 10th ofFebruary, 1840. This unionhas been productive of muchmutual happiness, and con¬ducive to the welfare of thenation; and the universalprayer of her loyal subjectsis, that they may be longspared to each other, and thather Majesty may live longto rale over her devotedpeople.The issue of the Queen’smarriagehasbecnas follows—1. Princess Victoria, born21st November, 1840.2. Albert Edward, Princeof Wales, born 9th November, 1841.3. Princess Alice, born 25th April, 1843.4. Prince Alfred, born 6th August, 1844.5. Princess Helena, born 25th May, 1846.6. Princess Louisa, born 18th March, 1848.7. Prince Arthur, born 1st May, 1850.8. Prince Leopold, born 7th April, 1853.In the possible event of her Majesty’s decease during theminority of the heir-apparent to the crown, Prince Alberthas been appointed, by Act of Parliament, Kcgent, andguardian of the queen’s issue.In August, 1842, a treaty of peace was negotiated, with theEmperor of China, terminating the inglorious war which hadbeen carried on for about three years, a war in which successwas attended with little honour, and which qvas induced bya traffic injurious to the bodies and souls of men. By theterms of this treaty, the Chinese were compelled to open, toBritish merchants, five of their principal sea-ports, and to paythe government of this country 21,000,000 dollars to defraythe expenses of the war.It is said ftiat the Queen has become much attached, toScotland, and, for severalVcars past, her Majesty, accompaniedby Prince Albert and the Royal family, has annually visitedIlie country, usually taking un their residence for a fewweeks on the beautiful estate of Balmoral, in Aberdeenshire,fc„n oTcrTf n*? ?0rch*sy by hcr Majesty. Here, thef. Brital" nlay be seen in the humblest andeottaBes on the estate, conversing freely with thePeai«tnry, and sometimes partaking of their homelyIn the year 1846, the long-agitated questions of the Com-ws, and tree-trade, which had been prominent subjects ofii6 1,1 .^'fral successive sessions of Parliament, weremaliy settled by the legislature. By the Repeal of the Corn-£ws foreign Grain is imported free of duty into this country,ond the beneficial operations of tho measure have been madeiianifest in the comparative comfort of the people regarding- r™3 °‘ 5ubsistence, during a period of scarcity andfyrth in many parts of the empire.' m’d mm'Vi'0 Pa't rtifitl of'Q"cen Victoria can scarcely beI- ov tr . ofIpeucfc’ :vet duniJBthere have not been wantingt y tuumphs ol that peaceful commercial enterprise andtenmm ent SC'enCe and m t’ wllich have contributed totinn« y t0 ltac pit:j5ent high position among the.tions. Along many of the railways that most wonderfulvent,on of the age, the Electric Telegraph, conveys politicalid commercial intelligence with a velocity which formeres could never have anticipated. In the'year 1851 the^mg ot a, submarine Telegraph between England’andnance, a distance ot 26 miles across the English channeli is completed. But this year, 1851, will be memorable, injjitoiy, cfoefly for that glorious triumph of the arts of peacettich n inaugurated—the Great Exhibition of Works oft and Industry, held in London, and to which almostBitorsC0UEorr the ^ f 6 SCnt ,itS contnhntions and itsU tors ior the original proposal of this splendid scheme,1 the unparalleled success with which it was carried outa* "edit >s due to her Majesty’s Consort, Prince AlbenJ the energy, ingenuity, and eminent talents for business^displayed, in his capacity of President of the Royal Com-n.sioners, and active superintendent of the plans and^ T’eCiC-f —y m suc!l a m'ghty undertaking,a he Great Exhibition was opened by the Queen with angeons ceremony in the Crystal Palace, Hyde Park, on theid.?c on7hP nri Tn ‘nelly c!osi:d for admission to theon the 11th of October, 1851.•foe! <^UeCn Vlcloria s reiSn continue one of prosperity and5abe tfje ©ttefn.HISTORIES, RELIGIOUS TRACTS, SONG BOOKS, &c ;Price ONE PENNY eacb.SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.1.23.4.6.6.7.8.910.1112.13.14.151*5.17.18.1920.21.23.24.25.2(5.28.29.3031.The Anecdote Book.The Scrap Book.The Story Teller.The Book of Fate.The Fortune Teller.The Dream Interpreter.The Way to Wealth.The Medical Guide.The Family Receipt Book.The Sentimental Reciter.The Comic Reciter.The Letter Writer.The Valentine Writer, Love.— — Comic.Fireside Amusements.Outdoor Amusements.The Maid Servant’s Guide.The Art of Presen ing Health.Domestic Cookery.The Magic Oracle.Life of Ambrose Gwinnett.Readings for Winter Evenings.Popular Irish Stories.Irish Tales and Legends.Life of Louis Philippe.Life of Sir Robert Peel.Life of the Duke of Wellington.Life of Napoleon.The Spectre Bridegroom, &c.Amusing Irish Stories.The Exiles of Siberia.XaZSCBEEANEOITS.32. Life of Rob Roy.33. Toast Master’s Companion.34. Life of Robin Hood, with cvU.35. Life of Robert Bums.36. Life of Sir William Wallace. ;]37. Life of Robert Bruce.38. History of Prince Charles Muartl.39. Paul and Virginia.40. Robinson Crusoe, with cuts.41. Sindbad the Sailor, with cuts.42. Blue Beard, with cuts.43. Whittington and ins Cat, withcutsi44. Sovereigns of Gt. Britain,«n(AcM(s’45. Cinderella, with cuts.46. Jack the Giant Killer, with cuts..)47. The Yellow Dwarf, with cuts.48. The Sleeping Beauty, with cuts.49. The Universal Riddler, with cuts50. The Little Deserter, with cuts.51. The Babes in the Wood, with cuts-52. The Pictorial Alphabet, withaUss53. jEsop's Fables, with cuts.54. GamesandAmusements,!riMctiaf55. The New Year’s Gift, with cuts. 156. The Poetical Alphabet, with cuts'57. Barbauld’s Lessons, with cuts, j58. Ali Baba, or the 40 Thieves, cuts'59. Alladin, or t he Wondf. Lamp, cuts60. The Life of Lord Nelson.61. The Small Preceptor.62. The Child’s Assistant.81.8283.8485.8687.88.89.90.91.RSX.XGIOUS.The Juvenile Prayer Book.The Private Prayer Book.The Family Prayer Book.The History of the Jews.The Destruction of Jerusalem.Religious Anecdotes.Scripture Stories.Sketch of all Religions.History of the Bitile, with cuts.The Life of Christ.The Life of St. Paul.92. The Life of John Knox.93. The Life of Dr. Chalmers.94. Watts's Divine Songs, withcutu95. Sacred History.96. Joseph and his Brethren. :97. History of Moses.98. Ahraham, Isaac, and Jacob.99 Lives of the Apostles.100. The Pilgiim’sProgress, wilhctM.101. The Shorter Catechism.102. The Mother's Catechism.The Scottish Minstrel, 1st senes.  — 2d_ — 3d_ — 4th_ _ 5th_ 0thThe English Minstrel, 1st2d9.13.11.12.Sd4th5th0thSONGS.13. The Irish Minstrel, 1st series.14. — — 2d —15 - - SJ. “16. . — — 4th —17. The Comic Minstrel, 1st —II r - 3d =m - - 4'h -»>i   — 5tn22    — 6th rfi>9 The Negro Minstrel, 1st —24- - - 2d -Others in Preparation.