WONDERFUL ACCOUNTOFMr. George Spearing,A Lieutenant in the Navy,Who fell into a Coal Pit in Northwoodside, neatGlasgow •, where he remained Seven Daysand Seven Nights, without any otherSupport than Rain Water.ALSO,I T.:r Surprising manner <f his Deliverance, noith anAccount of hit Behaviour while in thattnelanchch; situation.Tq which is added,A Hymn of Praise for his Deliverance.KILMARNOCK:Printed for the Booksellers.%IPublished by himself, for the information of hisFriends and the Public.1t>‘AWONDERFUL ACCOUNTOFOn Wednesday last, between the hours of 3and i o’clock afternoon, I went into a little wood,called- North-wood side* situated between 2 and 3miles to the south-west of Glasgow, with a de-sign to gather a few hazel nuts.—I had not beenin the wood above I.' minutes, nor gathered morethan ten nuts, before I unfortunately fell iuto anold coal pit, exactly 51 feet deep, which had beeumade through a solid rock. On recovering myrecollection, I found myself sitting nearly as ataylor does at his work, the blood flowing veryfast from my mbtith. I thought I had broken ablood vessel, and consequently, had not long tclive ; but, to my great comfort, I soon discoveredthat the blood proceeded from a wound in mytongue, which I supposed I had bitten in my fallLooking at my wacch, it was ten minutes pas'four ; and getting up, I surveyed my limbs, andto my inexpressible joy, found that not one othem was broken. 1 was soon reconciled to rmsituation, having from my childhood thought thasomething very extraordinary was to happen min the course of my life, and I had not the leasdoubt of being relieved in the morning: for, thwood being but small, and situated near a populous cifyr ic is much frequented, sspemlly irt thenut season, and there are several foot paths lead¬ing through it. i. ,• ■ Niglit approached, when it began to rain, notyi gentle shower?, but hr torrents, sufh as .it theautumnal equinox. * The pit was about 5 feet inameter hut not having been worked for severalyears, the subterraneous passages were ehoakedup, so that I was exposed to the rain, which ccnvtmued, witft small intermissiorw, till the day ofr y release, and in a very short time I was all overtret;I.i this comfortless’ coniliti^n I endeavoured toakc some repose. A forked stick which I foundm the pit, I placed di+gonajjy to the side of itwh.cn served alternately to support my'heud as a••■iJow, or my body otftfigionaily, which wal muchiru.scd ; but, in the whole time I remained here,foo not think foat ever i slept an hoof together.ria*ing pasted a very disagreeable and fedaousught, 1 was somewhat cheered with the appear-it,ce of day light, and the melody of a robm-red-taut liad perched directly over the momh(l<- P;t ’ 2!ul thl’ Prewy little warbler continued° vn,;t ‘^y quartersgvery morning during mv con-inement; winch I construed into a happ/ornen> n y del.v ranee. And I sincerely believe, the.ust I had m Prcvidence, and the company ofms utie bird, contnbutid much to that serenity•fomnd I constantly enjoyed. At the distance ofbout a hundred yards, in a direct line from theit; mere was a water-mill, the miller’s hr useI.® nrturer*ta me> and the road to the mill was•i i nearer.; so that I could frequently heat the4 *Ivofses going on the roan to and from, tns .raiHJjjFrequently I heard human voices and r countdistinctly hear the ducks and hens about the rr.m.1 made the best use of my voice on every occasion,but it was to no manner of purpose for the wind,which: was constantly high, blew: in a line ironi;the mill to the pit, which easily accounts for wcatI heard ; and, at the same time, my voice wascarried the contrary way.I cannot say I suffered rauch rrom hunger 5after two or three days my appetite ceased, butmy thirst was intolerable ; and though it almostconstantly rained yet I coukl not, till the tend oJfourth day preserve a drop of it, as the earth atthe bottom of the pit sucked it up as fast as it rardown. In this distress I sucked my clothes; budfrom them I could extract but little moisture-The shock I received in the fall, together with tndislocation of one of my ribs, kept me, 1 im. gmin a continual fever; I cannot otherwise accounfor my suffering so much more from thirst thaI did from hunger. At last I discovered the nu.cbone of a .bull almost covered with earth, whic1 was afterwards informed, foil into the pit kvears before me. I dug it Op, and the^ large enof it left a cavity that, 1 suppose, might contai.. quart. This the water gradually drained mt<but so v'-rv slowlv, that it was a considerable tmbefore I could dip a nut shell full at a time, wmt-I emptied into the palm of my hand, and so dra*it. The water now began to increase pretty hso that I was glad to enlarge nay reservoir, nifmuch, that on the 4-th or 5th day, 1 nad a su.cient supply; and, this waUr was ecrtaimy tpreservation of my life-5At the bottom of the pit there were great miar;titles ot reptilfes, sulA as frogs, toads, large blacksnails, ot slugs, &c. These noxious creaturesi would frequently crawl about me, and often getj: into my reservoir; nevertheless, f thought it thesweetest water I had'ever tasted ; and, at this dis¬tance of time, the remembrance of it is so sweet,that, were it now possible to obtain any of it, fam sure I could swallow it with avidity. I have-frequently taken both frogs and toads out of myjreck, where, I suppose they took shelter while Islept. The toads i always destroyed, but the frogsI carefully preserved, as l did not know but Imight be under the necessity of eating them, as fshould not have scrupled to have done, had Ibeen very hungry.Saturday the 6il>, there fell but little rain, andI had the satifaction to hear the voices of someboys in the wood. Immediately I called out with «all my might, but it was a-!! in vain, though I af¬terwards learned that they actually heard me; butbeing prepossessed with an idle story, of a wildman being in the wood, they ran away very muchterrified.Sunday the 17th was my birth day, when Icompleted my 41st year; and 1 think it was thenext day that some of my acquaintance, having ac¬cidentally heard that I had gone the way I did,sent two or three porters out purposely to searchthe pits for me. These merr went to the miller’shouse, and made enquiry for me ; but, on ac¬count of the very great rain at die time, they ne¬ver entered the wood, but cruelly returned totheir employers, telling tlum they had, searched« T6the pits, and that I w'rs.Tjot.to.he fotmi!. .Manypeople in .my dismal situatiou u>nukl hqve died , indespair; hut, I thank God, J an joyed a pei’feccsertnuv'of.mind*, f'O much sop; rhat. on the Tueswday aTtemoon, and when I had been six nights, inhe p.itpl very compasedlv, .hy way of amusement^•a to combing my wig on ray kirco, humming ane, and thinking cn Archer in the play calledtne. Be iux. SiT.atagem. ' .•'At-length the morning, Srptetomer 20th, the*1 ppy morning-for my deliverance came h a day,that while m.y meniorv lasts/ I wili always cele¬brate wivh gratifude to heaven. 'lihrough theibrambles and bushos that covet'r-d diie mouth ofthe pit, I could discover the-sun "shining bright,and my pretty warbler was chanting Ins melodi¬ous strains, when my attention was roused by aconfused noise of human voice;, which seemedto be approaching fast towards the -pit;-' Immedi¬ately 1 called out, and most agreeably suvpr.sedmany of my acquaintance, who were in serrch ofme; As soon as thev heard mv voice; they ailrun towards the pit, and I could distinguish a wellknown voice exclaim, ‘ Good God ! he is still-living !’ Another of them, a very honest NorthBriton, betwixt his surprise and joy, could nothelp asking me, in the Hibernian ..tyie, if I was .still living ? 1 called' odt that I was, and hearrv. too ; and then gave them particular directions howto proceed in getting me our.Fortunately, at iiuu juncture, a C. liter belong¬ing to a wDiking pit in the neighbourhood, waspassing along - the road, and hearing the unusalnoise*in the wood; curiosity led him to enquireinto the c?.u3,e of it; by his assistance, and ^ ropewhich was -then pTccured frorn the mill, I wassoon safely landed.gn. terra firma (continent ocmain land). The miller’s wife very kindly broughtsome milk, wajrm from tlie cow ; but, on my ^onJTing into the fresh air, I grew faint,and ccTuld r. .<taste it. Neec). I be, ashamed to ac}tnowledg:,that the first dictates'of my heart prompted meto fall on my krfdes,- and ejaculate'thy thanksgiv¬ing to the God of my deliverance, since, at this’distant time, I never think of it but the tear ofi gratitude starts from my eye.:Every morning while I was in the pit, I tied aknot in the coihierof hiy hdnukerchiet, supposingthat, if I died there,, and my body should be after¬wards found, the number of the, knots would cer¬tify how many days 1 had lived. Almost the firstquestion my friend.s asked me was. How long Ihad been in the pit ? I immediately drew myhandkerchief from my pocket, and desired themto count the knots, on which they found seven,the exact number of nights I had been there.I was conveyed home, and every mean used forstrengthening my limbs, which were'much be¬numbed with the damp and coldness of the- pit ;but, through the ignorance of my physicians, amortification seized both my feet, by which theflesh and all the nails of my left foot, and threefrom my right foot, came oil' like a glove. Theflesh at the bottom of my foot being separatedfrom the bone, I had it cut off; and it was ninemonths after before I recovered. 1 have sincebeen the father of nine children.8L. G. Spearing"s Hymn .of I'raise.Almighty God, who on this day,My life from death didst save,To thee I now presume to pray.And future blessings crave.Oh '! grant I ever may confessThy goodness shewn to me ;With grateful tears and tongue expressThe praise that’s due to thee.While in the dreary pit I lay,My life thou didst sustain ;And to hay comfort, I may say.Thou gav’st refreshing rain.In this thy providential careIs to the world made known.And teaches us to shun despair.For thou art God alone.Then since my life thou didst preserve,Oh ! teach me how to live :Let me not from thy precepts swerve \This blessing to me give.So will t yearly on this day,My grateful tribute bring.In humble thanks to thee a!way,My Saviour, God, and King.