GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR TRE BOOKSELLERS.4(\ ^OF SCOTLAND^^AVSURG^ghHuy<ir%4Vj:"If'fI§sThe Division of the Waters.Gkn. i. 6, 7.And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of th«x   i i~i. trnm tho wnters. Afia Goowaters, and let it divide the waters from the watersmade the firaujneut, and divided >tUe_ waters.the firmament from the water* which were above theand it was so.And (ere unGen. i. 1—3.The Creation of Light.In the beginning God created the heaven and tho earth.And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness wanupon the face of the deep: and the Spirit of God moved upon theface of the waters. And God said, let there be light; and theiewae light.fVoman formed.Gen. ii. 22. 23, 25.j And tbe rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, madeihe a woman, and brought her unto the man. And Adam said,|This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall>e called Woman, because she was taken out of man. Andhey were both naked, the man and his wife, and were net•hamed.4 Adam naming the creatures.Gen. Ji. 19, 20.s And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast ofe field, and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam,^see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called■ery living creature, th.-it was the name thereof. And ..dam<-ve u^rpes tjo all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every4•'> The serpent deceive/h Eve.Ge.\. iii. 4, tJ.And the serpent said unto tho woman, Ye shall not surelydie. Ami when the woman saw that tho tree was good fortoed, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to bedesired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof anddid eat; nnd gave also unto her husband with her, and he didsat.6 Adam and Eve driven from the garden.Gex. iii. 23, 24.Therefore the T.ord God sent him forth from the garden of Ift len, to till the ground from whence he was taken. So hodrove out the man : and he placed at the east of the garden ofh'den' cherdbims and a flaming sword which turned every way, to rkeep tho way of tho tree of life.Babel built.ol oiiflri odi bos ,b(ir.(i Hid dml bsii.ivil.-.Gbs. xi. 4, 8.Aixl they said, Go to, let us build us a city, and a towers'hose ton may reach unto heaven ; and let us make us a name,lest wc be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth,o the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the face?f all the earth : and they left off to build the city.Noah entering the arh.Gen. vii. 7—10.i ‘ he ■ " ofno 1 • "O' ' ■' 1And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and bis sons’wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls,and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth. There wentin two and two unto Noah into the ark, the male arid thefemale, as God had commanded Noah.610 Abraham offereth Isaac.Gk.v. xxii. 10—12.Ami Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife toslay his eon. And the angel of the Lord called unto him.out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said. Here! Ami he said, hay hot thtttd hand upon the lad, neither,j , jtioa ar.tlhirig unto him; for riotv 1 know that thou fearestCod, rheir’f Hi Mi hh-f hot withlitld thy soil, thine only son,ft lOTi hie.9 Lot and his Daughters leave Sodom.Gen. xix. 15, 30.And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lotsaying. Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters, which are here,lest thou be consumed in tbe iniquity of the city. And Lotwent up out of Zoar, and dwell in the mountain, and his twolaughters with him ; for he feared to dwell in Zoar : and hedwelt iu a cave, he and his two daughters.7nGex. xxxvii. 23, 24.t - . ■I And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat otmany colours, that was on him. And they took him, and casthim into a pit; and the pit was empty, and there was no water; in if.12 Jotcph tempted by Potaphar’t Wife.Gen. xxxix. 7, 10, 12.And it came to pass after these things, that his master’s wifcast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me. Ar.dit came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that hehearkened not unto her, to lie with her, or to be with her. Andshe caught him by his garment, saying. Lie with mo: and he 1* fthis garmout in her hand, and flod, and got him out.5*13 The finding of Moses.Exod. ii. 5, 6.And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself atthe rirer ; and her maidens walked along by the river’s side :and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid tofetch it. And when she had opened it, she saw the child : and,behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, andsaid, This is one of the Hebrew’s childrenId Moses smileth the rock.Exon. xvii. 5, 6.And the Lord said unto Moses, Go on before the people, andtake with thee of the elders of Israel ; and thy rod, wherewiththou smotest the river, take in thine hand, and go. Behold, I willstand before thee there upon the rock in Iloreb ; and thou shallsmite the rock, and there shall come water out of it, that thepeople may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elder*of Israel.915 Mot is receiveth the Tables.IExod^xxxiv. 1, 4.And tho Lord goid unto IVIoscs, Hew tbcc two tallies of stonelike unto the first; and I will write upon these tables the wordsthat were in the first tables, which thou brakest. And hehewed two tables of stone, like unto the first: and Moses roseup early in the morning, and went up into Mount Sinai, as theLord had commanded him, and took in his hand the. two tablesof stone.And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests tookup the ark of the Lord. And seven priests, bearing seven trum¬pets of rams’ horns before the ark of the Lord, went on con¬tinually, and blew with the trumpets : and the armed men wentbefore them ; but the rereward came after tho ark of the Lord,the priest* going on, and blowing with the trumpets.JOJosn. x. 12, 13.*Then spake Josbaa to the Lord, in the day when the Lorddelivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and hesaid in the sight of Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon ;aud thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon. And the sun stood,still, and the moon stayed, until the people had avenged them-solves upon their enemies.18 Samson’s Death.Judges xvi. 29, 30.And Samson took hold ot the two middle pillars upon whiclthe house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one willhis right hand, and of the other with his left. And Samson£aid, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himsellvrith all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upo)all the neonle that were within.|i1 Sam. xvil. 49, 61.And Darid put his hand in Ids bag, and took thence a stone,and slung it, and smote the Philistine ir his forehead, that thestone sunk into his forehead ; and he fell upon his face to theearth. Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, andtook his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, aud slewhim, and cut off his head therewith.20Absalom cwjht up in the oak,2 Sam. xviii. 0.4nd Ahsalpm tO'|c upon a jnuje, and the mule went under thetjiick Wugjis of a great oak,'and his he^ul caught hold of theoak, and he yas taken, up between the heaven and tlio earth ;and the mule that was under him went away.21 Solotnon’s Judgement.1 [vinos iii. 25, 20..Anil (lie lung Divide tliO.ljving child in two, and giveHalf i" the one, and Imlf to Ihe, other. 'I'hen npnke the woniaBjwlrose ihe living ehi.ii as inilo the king, (for her bowels yearned’U]'on her son,) and she said, O my lord, give her tlio living;child, ami- in no wi.-e slay it: but the other said, Let it boiSonLer mine liui' thine, but divide it.22 Solomon's Temple,1 Kinos vi. 2, 3,And the house which'king Solomon built for the Lord, tholength thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof ttwenty cubits, and the height thereof thirty cubits. And theporch before the temple of tho house, twenty cubit* was th* ■;length thereof, according to the breadth of the house; and tea £cubits was the breadth thereof before the house.1323 Elijah fed hit ravens.1 Kings xvii. 3, 4, G.Got tlice hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself bythe brook Cherith, that is before Jordan. And it shall be, thatthou slmlt drink of the brook ; and I have commanded theravens to feed thee there. And the ravens brought him bread; and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening;I and ho drank of the brook.i And they slew every one his man : and the Syrians fled, and! Israel pursued them ; and Beu-hadad the king of Syria escapedon a horse with the horsemen. And the king of Israel wontout, and smote the horses and chariots, and slew the Syrianswith a great slaughter.2-1 The Assyrians Overthrown.1 Kings xx. 20, 21.M25 Elijah it taken up into heaven.2 Kings ii. 11, 12.Ami it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that,behold there appeared a chariot of tire, and hpraes of fire, andparted them both a'-sunder ; and Elijah went up by a whirlwindinto heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, myfather ! the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.Jezebel eaten in/ dorrs.2 Kings ix. 35, 36,And they went to bury Jezebel ; hut they found no more ofher than the scull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.Wherefore they came again, and told him ; and he said. This isthe word of the Lord, which he spake by his servant Elijah'theTishbite, saying, In tho portion of Jozroel shall dogs, eat theflesh .of Jezebel.Dan. v. 3—5.The king and his princes, his wives and his concubines, drankvine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, ofiron, of wood, and of stono. in the same hour came forth fin¬gers of a man’s hand, and wrote over against the candlestickupon tne plaster of the wall of the king’s palace ; and ihe kingsaw the part of a hand that wrote.*28 Daniel cast into the den of lions.Dan. vi. 21, 22, 23.Then said Daniel unto the king, O king, live for aver. MyGod hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions’ mouths, thatthey have not hurt me : forasmuch as before him ipnoeency wasfound in me; and also before thee, O king, have 1 done nohurt. Then was the king exceeding glad fqr him, and com¬manded that they should take Daniel up out of the den.ifl20 Jonah is swallowed by a fish.Joxaii i. 17. ii. 10.Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and threeRights. And the Lord spake unto the fish, and it vomited outJonah upon the dry land.SO The Salutation.Lukf. i. 30, 31, 32.And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hastfound favour with God. And, behold, thou shalt conceive inthy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus.He shall be great, and shall be called the son of the Highest :and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his fatherDavid.1731 Wise men enquire after Christ.Matt. ii. 11, 12.And when they were come into the house, they saw theyoung child with Mary his mother, and fell down and wor-j shipped him : and when they had opened their treasures, they| presented unto him gifts ; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.And being warned of God in a dream that they should notI return to Herod, they departed into their own country anotherI *'*?■•32 The baptism of Jesus.Luke iii. 21, 22.Now when all the people were baptised, it came to pass, thatt Jesus also being baptised, and praying, the heaven was opened,And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape, like a dove,upon him ; and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou artnay beloved Son ; in thoo I am well pleased.18Matt. xiv. 6, 7» 8.Dut when Herod’s birth-day was kept, the daughter ofHeredias danced before them, and pleased Ilerod. Whereuponho promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask.And she, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give meJohn Baptist’s head in a charger.John Baptist Beheaded.Luxe x. 33, 34.A certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was ;and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, And wentto him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and•et him on his own beast, and brought him to ah inn, and tookmr« of him.The Good Samaritan,It85 Christ's sermon on the mount.Matt. v. 1, 2, 3, 4.And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain : andi when he was set. his diciplt-s came unto him : And hit openedifhis mouth, ami taught them, saving. Blessed ate the poof inijlspirit : for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are theylijthat tnpurn : for they shall he comforted. >Vr. A-c.36 The TempedMark iv. 37, 38, 39.*And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves boatlinto the ship, so that it was now full. And he was in thel hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow ; and they awakeIhiiu, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish ?And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and he said Unto the seat,Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was A great•aim.30Christ healeih a bloody issue.Litke viii. 47, 48.And when the woman saw that she was not hid. she cametrembling, and, falling down before him, she declared onto himbofere all the people for what cause she had touched him, andhow she was healed immediately. And he said unto her,Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole;go in peace.38 The prodigal son.Lukjb xt. 21, 22, 23.And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned againstHeaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be calledthy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth thebest robe, and put it on him ; and put a ring on his hand, andshoes on his feet. And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it;and let os eat and bo merry.21| "W The Last Supper.Matt. xxvi. 26, 27, 23.y And .i1! they irero eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it,tnd brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat;ais is my body. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, andave it to them saying, Drink yc ali of it: For this is my bloodf the New Testament, which is shed for manv for the rensistioaf (ins.And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which wasiaid at big gate, full of sores. And desiring to be fed withthe crumbs which fell from the rich man’s table : moreover, tueflogs came and licked his sores. And it carne to pass, that tiieiMggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham’sfcosom. r ,vThe Parable of LazarusLuke xvi. 20, 21, 22.Lukk sxiii. 1, 2, ;i.And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him untoI'ilate. And they began to accuse him, saying, Wo found thisfollow perverting the nation, anol forbidding to give tribute toLesar, saying that he himself is Christ a King. And Pilateasked him, saying. Art thou the King of the Jews? And heanswered him and said, Thou savest it.Make .w. 24, 25, 20, 27.And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments^casting lots upon them, what every man should lake. And itwas the third hour, and they crucified him. And the superscrip-jtion of his accusation vhs written over. The Ki.no of the Jew*And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on hi* right handand thd dther on his left.ts> 43 The Ascension.Lokb xxiv. 50, 51, 5'2.| And he led them out as far as to Bethany ; and he lifted upE hands, and blessed them. And it came to pass, ■while he>Sed them, he was parted from them, and carried up intoven. And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalemllrith great joy, > .4 * The Apostle* speak divers language*.Acts ii. 2, 3, 4.And suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a rushingmighty wind, and it filled all the house, where they were sitting.|And there appeared unto them cloven tongues, like as of fire,'~td it sat upon each of them. And they wore ail filled with th*oiy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues. As the| Spirit gave them utterance. i2!^ Said called to the Apostle ship.Acts ix. 3, 4, 5.And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus ; and suddenlythere shined round about him a light from heaven. And he fellto the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, whypersecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou. Lord? Andthe Lord said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. It is hardfor thee to kick against the pricks.43 The Last Day.Matt. xxv. 31, 32, 33.When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all theholy angels with him. then shall he sit upon the throne of hisglory: And before him shall be gathered all nations; and heshall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth hissheep from the goats : And ho shall put the sheep on bis righthnnd, And the goats on his left.