cheap tracts,Cali, ^oted to promote the Interest; of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humani.y.No. XI.THEDeath Bed:O R,PATIENCE & RESIGNA¬TION (to the will of God)DISPLAYED,In the laft moments of Sufan Davison.“ Do not afflict yourfelf in this manner, my dear, faidpoor old Su-/an, thanks be to God, my fufferings are not very great, they willnjoon have an end, and I (hall blefs you with my dying breath.”To which is added,THEXMurmarerCorrectedA Moral Tale.DUNBAR:jh'inted by, G. Miller :—at whole Shop imay be had a variety o'!Pamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pidt tires, Catechilms, i-c.■WHOLESALE AND JAETAIL,i OF SCOTUND jTHEDEATH-BED-   << *C’g > >   A Death-bed’s a detector of the hearty' Here tir'd dijfimulation drops her mafqiie,'Thro' lifes grimace, Whatever farce the hoajlful hero plays,VIRTUE alone has majefly in death ;And greater JIM, the more the tyrant frenuns,; , The chamber •where the good man meets hi< fateIs priviledg’d beyond the common •walkOf Virtuous life, quite in the verge rfheaven ;Fly, ye Profane ! or elfe draw near with awe, j,Receive the blejfing, and adore the chance.That threw in this Bathefda your disease ;If unrestor'd by this, defpair your cure.THOMAS DAVISON, a poor brickr Ilayer, had the misfortune to bury hisi|wife; the expenfe of her long illnefs, and|.his having been out of work for many,weeks, reduced him to the greateft diftrefs.He beheld his children around him, halfnaked, and in want of bread, while his poor jancient mother lay at the point of death ;upon a little /draw in the corner of his cot jitage; overwhelmed with grief, the poo kman fat himfielf down upon an old brokeilchair, and covering his face with his handsf;1()J endeavoured to hide his tears. At this in-ilftant, his mother faid to him, Thomas, haveyou nothing to lay upon me ? I am dread¬fully cold. Starting from his feat, Thomasimmediately cried out, I will pull off myi coat and waiftcoat to lay upon you mother ;; that, faid fhe, you fhall not do, an old fadewill fuffice; but have you not a little wood;to make a fire to warm thefe poor babes ?: TYour conftant attendance upon me hindersi<iiyour going to the wood to pick up fome;■put my life will foon be at an end, I fhalljmot long be a burden to you. Talk not in.>:this manner, my dear mother, I beg of you.Maid Thomas Davifon. If my heart’s blood(would fuflain your life, I would willinglyi; bed it for you. Oh, how dees it grieve me,1 io fee you fuffering with hunger and cold,iiidnle I have not the means of fupportinguio u !l! Do not affiift yourfelf in this manner, myear, faid poor old Sufan, thanks be to God,y fufferings are not very great, they willon have an end, and I lhali blefs you withy dying breath.0 mother, faid Thomas, during my child-Klood you fupplied all my wants, and innur old age I can only rr^ake you a partnermy mifery; it is this which rends myBeart. I know, my dear, anfwered Sufan,at it is not your fault that I am no better1 ovided for, and fine? my life is almoft at( 4 )an end, I have but few wants in this world,and for thefe I trufi. my Heavenly Father fwill provide ; your love, my dear, will help Ito comfort me in my laft moments.Have you then no hopes of recoveringmother ? cried Thomas, none replied flie, I fjfeel that I-fhall not long furvive, but do not Iafflift yourfelf, I fhall live again in a betterworld. Thomas’s fobs prevented him fromfpeaking, which his mother perceiving, fhe jfaid, let me entreat you not to grieve in this !imanner ; you have been, my dear Thomas, |the joy of my younger years, and you are iat prefent the comforter of my dying hours. .In a very (hort time, your hands will clofe :my eyes, and I fhall go to my Creator, |who knows what you do for me, and whatyou wifh to do, who, I hope, will reward :you for it In his everlafting kingdom. Think tof me when I am gone, I fhall think of youabove. O never, never, can I forget you, ;cried Thomas. I dare fay you never will,anfwered his mother ; but there is one thing jwhich difturbs my mind, and I cannot diein peace if I do not mention it, it lies like aweight of lead upon my heart. I yeflerday ,obferved Robert, who thought me alleep,,;pull out of his pocket a number of apples,/:Tome of which he gave to his brothers, de-}firing them not to let you or me fee them, !and fome he ate himfelf. Thefe apples,::Thomas, were not ours, otherwife Robert IC 5 )would have thrown them upon the table,and called the reft openly to partake ofthem. He would alfo have brought one tome. You know that when any thing is givenhim which !^e thinks I fhall like, he runs tome and fays, here grandmother, I hope youcan eat this. O my fon, if this child Ihouldbecome a thief! This thought has torment¬ed me ever fince yefterday. Where isRobert, fetch him 1 beg of you, 1 am defir-ous of talking to him.Shocked with this relation, ThomasDavifon hafter.cd to find his fon, and foonled him to his mother’s bedfide; Sufan,with gteat difficulty, raifed herfelf, andturning towards the child, took his twohand's in hers, and prefted them upon herheart, fupporting her feeble head upon theihoulder of her grandfon.What do you want with me grandmother?faid Robert, 1 hope you did not call me tofee you die ? My dear boy, replied Sufan,1 (hall certainly die very foon. Not yet,not yet, grandmother, 1 hope you will livetill 1 am grown a man. Sulan, quite over¬came with fitting up, fainted away, and fellback into the bed, Thomas and his fon burftinto tears, and each eagerly feized one ofher hands. The poor old woman foon re¬vived, and addreffing herself to Robert, faidI am oetter now that 1 am laid down. Com¬fort yourself, my $lear. i feel no pain inC 6 )dying ; 1 am going to a tender father, whohas prepared a place in heaven for me nearhim : 1 ihall be better than 1 aan poffibly bein this world. Very loon, Robert, 1 fhallgo to him.Dear grandmother, cried ifcbert, takeme with you. No, my love, anfweredSusan, you will not go with me. If it pleafesGod, you will yet live many years uponearth ; you will become an honed; man, andwhen your father Ihall be trembling withold age you will give him comfort and flip-port ; will you not, Robert ? You will bealways dutiful, you will endeavour to giveyour good parent pleafure ? Promise methis ; you fee your father does as much forme.Robert readily proir.ifed to do all that hisgrandmother enjoined him ; on which Ihelaid. Take care, my dear, that you do fo;you may depend upon it, that the great Godof heaven and of earth fees all that we do.You believe this, do you not ? Yes,- grand¬mother, replied Robert, 1 know that Godices me at all times, and in all places.How then, faid Susan, could you think ofhiding from him the apples v/hich you fioieyefterday ? 1 will do io no more, 1 will dofo no more, cried Robert,-forgive me, grand¬mother, pardon me, O God ! You own thenthat you dole the apples, faid Susan ? O yes,faid Robert, who could fcarcely (peak for( 7 )fobbing, 1 took them from Richard Parker’sorchard. Go then, faid his grandmotherand beg Richard Parker’s pardon.Robert was afraid to do this, and beggedhis grandmother not to infill on it. But fhefaid, indeed Robert, you muft go; it willprevent your doing lo another time. ForGod’s fake, my dear child, never more aslong as you live, let your wants be ever fogreat, never mor^ take what belongs toanother. God will not abandon thofe whomhe hath brought into the world. Truft inhis aid, pray to him, and he will (end youhelp. Robert affured his grand- mother,that he would fooner die with hunger than(leal for the future. On which (lie preffedhim to her bofom, and bathing him withher tears, prayed to God to bids him, andpreferve him from all evil; but could not belatisfied unless he went ro beg pardon ofRichard Parker; fhe, therefore, entreated hisather to go with him. Tell him, faid (lie,row very forry 1 am, that we cannot payhim the price of his goods; but 1 will prayGod to repay him with bleffings upon hisfamily. Alas! their condition is not muchbetter than ours; and if his poor wife didnot work night and day as well as himfelf,jiihey could not iupport fuch a number ofjjehiidren.X hope;-Thomas, you will be able one day!hr other to make them amends with the( S )fruit of your- labour. MoR readily, faidfThomas; let yo'ur mind at eafe, dear mother.I will work myfelf to pay, faid Robert, asfoon as 1 am able.As he uttered thefe words, the landlordof the cottage called at the door, and defiredThomas to Rep out to him. Sufan knewhis voice, and was greatly agitated, and faid, fwhat will become of us now ? He will turn ius out of the cottage before my eyes are jclofed; but recollefting herfelf, Ore prayed jto God to fupport her, and Ihow iSercy |upon her dear fon, and his children ; and rwasimmediatelycomforted. Perhaps,thoughtfhe, it was God who conduced the landlord l!hither at this inRant, that I might difcharge 1-my heart of the refentment 1 feel againit li1h^m, for obliging my fon to fell his goods |in order to pay him the laR year’s rent, and ||that 1 might pray for him before I die. Beit lo, O my God ! I no longer bear enmity j-1ngainft him; forgive him this cruelty, I Ibefeech thee, as I forgive it.As Ihe 'ended this prayer, fhe heard the elandlord raife his voice, and fuppofmg that Ihe was going to diftrels her fon again, Ihe pcfainted away. Robert immediately flew to pfetch his father, and cried out, that his pgrand-mother was dead; but by the time hthey got into the houfe Ihe was come to ftherfelf, and mentioned the fear which had I'’caufed her to fwoon.( 9 )Thomas affurcd her, that her apprehen-fionswere groundlefs; for that his landlordcame to tell him the ’Squire was going topull down his old manor-houfe, and build anew one, and that he had recommendedhim to the mafter bricklayer, who wouldgive him conftant work if he would be in-duftrious, which he faid, be would not failto be. Then I fliall die contented, laidpoor Sufan, fince there is a profpedt of breadfor you and your dear children. Death hasno further horrors for me. Thou, O Lord,i| art full of goodnefs ! Remember, my dear<’Ton, what I have taught you from your in-W'Jfancy; that the mgre we are attacked byH vusfortunes on oneJide, the more powerfully)i(God’s mercy defends us on the other. Yes,Smother, replied Thomas I (hall ever believeujjjthis; and now you are a little better, let meel go and feek for fomething elfe to cover you.r|No, faid Sufan, I can do very well, go rather|to Richard Parker with Robert; that is thelonly matter which I care about at prefent;igo Thomas, I beg vof you. Thomas im-simediately took Robert by the hand, andbdefired Jenny and Betfy to fit by.their grand-3 mother, and in cafe (lie fhould be worfe tor: (end little Jacob to fetch him. He theni made all pofiible hafte to his neighbour’sKhoufe. Richard Parker was gone to marketdwith his fruit, but his wife was at home, veryPpard at work. She was greatly furprifed at. ( 10 )feeing Thomas Davifon and his Jon enterher aoor with tears in their eyes, and beggedto know what troubled them ?Ah ! my good neighbour, cried Thomas,Jam very unhappy ; this child,'yefterday,when almoft familhed with hunger, got intoyour orchard and took feme apples. My J’mother found it out; Hie now lies dying, ‘and begs you will forgive him. It is not in ;my power at pretent to pay you the worthof the apples, but you may depend on mydoing fo with the firft money 1 can earn.Think no more about it, Thomas, repliedthe good woman, my little friend here, faidfhe, will promife, 1 dare fay, never more totake any thing that he has'not a right to ; ,and 1 will forgive him with all my heart.Confider, Robert, what an honed family youcome of, and do not bring difgrace upon it.You fhould reflect what a dreadful crime ■dealing is. If you had told me that you;were fo hungry, 1 would have gone withouta meal myfelf to have fed you, rather than .you fhould have committed a theft; be furewhen you are in the fame condition again,to make your wants known to me.Thanks be to God, replied Thomas, 1 have lreafon to hope Robert will not be driven to >fuch extremities again ; 1 fhall go into work tjto-morrow, and expect to have a good job |1at the ’Squire’s. 1 am heartily glad to here|rit, anfwered Mrs. Parker, 1 wi(h you joy !( II )Thank \Tou neiohbour, faid Thomas, thethought of being able to earn money makesme very happy; not fo much for my ownfake, but from the hope that my poor dearmother will die contented. 1 beg you willtell your hufband that Robert and 1 willboth work with all diligence to make re-ftitution for what has been taken from him.Do not trouble yourfelf aboi>t.it, faid thegood woman, 1 truft we fliall make fliiftwithout it; but fince your poor mother isfo bad, 1 will go and lee if 1 can be of anyfervice to her; perhaps (he may like aroafted apple ; 1 will carry one or two forher. When Mrs. Parker had filled herpocket, fhe went with Thomas'and Robert,who were impatient to return.As foon as the good old woman perceivedher neighbour enter, (lie lifted up her lan¬guid head, and faid, O Mrs. Parker forgiveus, 1 beg of you, this is the, firft time thatany one belonging to me was guilty of adifhoneft adtion. Mention it not, faid Mrs.Parker, it was no more than a child’s trick.Ah ! replied Sufan, Robert is a child now,but fliould he continue thefe pradices,what will he be when he is grown a man.The worfl of rogues begin at firft with littlethefts. 1 hope, replied Mrs. Parker, Robertwill ftop here, and be for the future anhoneft boy. I am fure, dear Sufan, you, foril/our part, have realon to expect from( 12 )heaven the promifed reward of upright deal¬ing, and 'you have brought up your family,in the way of honefty. Do you want anything ? Can 1 do any thing for you ? No,ray good friend, replied Sufan, 1 feel myflrength quite gone, my end approaches!Come near, my dear fon, and let me takemy leave of you. A't theie words, Thomaswas feized with a violent trembling, he fellupon his knees by the bed fide, took holdof his mother’s hand, and lifted up his eyesto heaven, but could not utter a word fortears and fobs. Take courage, fon, laid jSufan, 1 am going to wait for you in a hap- Ipier world. We fball meet again never Imore to part. Thomas, a little recovered, Ibowed his head, and faid, blefs me then, my I;dear mother! 1 ?.fk no more than to follow 1;you tc heaven when my children ihall no Ilonger Hand in need of my care. Sufan Iopened her dying eyes, and pronounced |thefc words :Bow down thine cac to my prayer, O jHeavenly Father! give thy grace to my jdear fon, the only child thou haft fpared to fvblefs my latter days ; my dear fon, whom 1 If .• have loved as my own foul. Thomas, may I'the Lord be ever with you and yours, and jj.confirm in heaven the benediction which 1 ilgive you ; he alone can reward you for phaving fo well difeharged your duty to your !parents, and I truft- he will do fo; but ll.( *3 )obicrve what I now fay : Inftruft your child¬ren to be true and juft in all their dealings,accuftom them to a laborious life, teachthem never to defpair, and counfel them tobeware of thofe who would tempt them tofollow evil courfes; teach them to put theirwhole truft in God, and to live in love andkindnefs-together, that they may help andcomfort one another when they are in diftrcfsand affliction.Here the good woman flopped a little toget breath, and then continued—Fetch me,Ifaid (lie, my Bible, and a little leather purfewhich lies at the bottom of my box. Thomasobeyed, and as foon as he brought them, (helaid her hands upon them, and faid, Thefeare what 1 have always regarded as the moftvaluable treafures 1 could poflefs. Let yourchildren come near. Thomas immediatelycalled his children to the bed-fide, anddirected them to kneel down. S’ufan fat upj|a little and thus addrefled them :My dear children, 1 am grieved to leavejyou thus in wretchednefs, without a mother.Think of me, my darlings, when l am takenfrom you. 1 can leave you no other legacybefides this book ; but it has been mydelight and my comfort, and it will be yours.Be lure to attend the Sunday School con-ftantly ; and as foon as you are able, readin this book a little every night to yonrfather; you will learn from it to be religioui,Wncjl' and virtuous.( *4 ^Then acidrefling herfelf to her Ton, fhofaid, In this little purfe, Thomas, you willfind a written character of me, given to yourfather, by a mailer and miftrefs with whomI lived ten years before I was married.As your girls grow up, let the eldeft haveit, and get a copy of it to give to her fifter;and be fare to tell them, it is my dying in¬junction, that when they go out to fervice,they drive to get into fober, religious fami¬lies ; and ufe their belt endeavours to keeptheir places.Alas ! my dear fon, I have nothing tobequeath to you; but you will not forgetme, I am certain. My good friend, faid ihc,to Mrs. Parker, you have granted One re¬quell of mine, in forgiving Robert, may Imake another ? When I am gone, will youbellow fome care upon thele dear mother-lefs children ; above all upon the dear littleJacob ? Where is ne ?—My eyes can nolonger fee you—Guide my hand that I may ]once more touch them all—Goo blefs mydear babes f With thefe words the expired.After a minute’s lilence, Thomas, fup-pofing'her in a dumber, faid to his children,get up my dears, and go away without noife.Your grand mother is gone to deep. O thatit may do her good ! Hut Mrs. Parker per¬ceived that (be was dead, and made dgns tohim that Ihe was fo.How great was now the distrefs of thisaffedionate fon, and his little family. They( i5 )burfl into tears, they fmote their hands to¬gether, the children clung about their father’sknees, he clafped them by turns to hisbofom. Mrs. Parker comforted them in thebeft manner the could, and declared herreadinefs to fulfil the requeft which Sufantl had made to her. The cottage (he inhabit-i ed was very near to Thomas Davifon, fothat (lie could ftep in very frequently, andfhe had a daughter fourteen years old, avery handy'notable girl, whom (he employ¬ed to look after the little Davifons, andnow that Thomas was in work he could af¬ford to pay her for doing fo ; by thefemeans the two families helped each other.Thomas was fo very induftrious, that hewas greatly noticed by the ’fquire, whohearing an account of his diftrelfes, was fokind as to give him fomething towardspaying his debts, and the ’fquire’s ladybought clothes for the children, and putlome of them to fchool ; with thefe helps,and hard work, Thomas got on very well.Robert had a great defire to be a gardener,and Richard Parker having no boy of hisown, hired him to work with him. Th£firft week he. infifted upon working forn nothing, and could fcarcely be prevailed onto leave off in the evening, fo very riefiroushe was of making ample amends for theapples ; for feveral years after this he was amoft trufty fervarft to Richard Parker, who}C 16 )then recommended him to be under garden- jer to the Tquire, and in time he was headgardener, and greatly liked, but he oftenfaid he fhould never forget the pain which j*one diflioneff atflion had coll him, andthat he would not commit another theft Ifor the world. His brother Jacob, when Ihe grew up, followed his father’s buftnefs,and his two fifterVhaving read their grand¬mother’s certificate, and heard her dyinginjunction, determined to drive to gain asgood a character for themfelves; and thoughthey had difficult tempers to deal with, theykept their places, and were, after a time,both married to induftrious honed men, and *fettled near their father, fo that they were jat hand to aflid him when he grew' old and iinfirm. Thomas lived to a good age, andhis death was dill happier than his mother’s,for he had no care for thole he left behind, *and could employ his whole thoughts on a (happy eternity.MURMURER CORRECTEDHe knows not joy who knows not this—Content is true Substantial blifs ;No inward Peace his bofom knows, ^Who covets more than Heats'll bejlows.Beware Ambition's fubtle flame!Ob ! fly from Envy's baneful name !Thefe raife the Soul's mofl deadly forms !And promifcs what Content performs,IN the fame village with Mrs. Wilden, liv¬ed Robert Hardy, a very honed laboriousjman ; hewas the bed hufband in the village,lowing to his piety and manly fortitude,kvhich led him to repofe a firm and conftanttruft in Providence, and to encounter with¬out fear, and fupport without repining,'whatever difficulties or diftreffes he met within providing for the wants of a numerousfamilyHis wife was, upon the whole, a well-dif-pofed woman, but (he had not equal refolu-tion with him to bear the evils of poverty.Before they came Ihe tormented herfelf withan idea that they would be infupportable ;and when they actually arrived, (he declin¬ed the comforts which Providence kindlymixes with the bitternefs of affiidtion, andtoo often envied thofe in fuperior dations.( i8 )I cannotavoid mentioning a very remark¬able occurrence which gave an awful leflbnto Robert Hardy’s wife, and which he andher good neighbour did not fail to enforce.'Mrs. Hardy being lately recovered froma bad lever, was particularly diftrefled withthe refleflion, that her ficknefs had reducedher to the neceflity of fpending a fmall fumof money which her hufband had laid byout of his wages, in order to buy a jacketand trowfers, and other necefiaries, to fitout one of the boys for fea. Mrs. Hardylaid it was a dreadful thing to be poor,and fecretly repifted that Providence hadcall her lot in fo lowly a ftation. However,being of a very induttrious temper, fhe de¬termined to do all fhe could towards regain¬ing the fum which her necefFities had obii-gd her to expend.At this time the farmers were in greatwant of haymakers and fhe refolved to ac¬company her hufband to the field. The day proved remarkably hot, and poorPeggy Hardy fuffered much from the fcorch-ing rays of the fun ; but in evening the airgrew cooler ,and became very pleafant,though fcarce a leaf moved. The haymakerhaving thrown her gown acrofs her arm,and gathered up a few things, which fhe putin a little balket, took her fork and rake inher hand, and flood Hill, looking for herhufband, who joined her as foon as he hadput on a coat lo nicely mended, that it did( i9 )i credit to his wife. Well, Peggy, how is it ?laid he. I fear thou art deadly tired ? Alittle, laid (he, to be fure ; however, that isthe fate of poor folk you know. O, Robert!dhow could I enjoy a walk with thee this fineevening, if we were gentle folk 1 I am hear-jitily forry to lee thee lb weary, my poor girl,i faid, Robert; but whatever you do, Peggy,c: do not envy gentlefolk ; we have our trou-Jbles, and they have theirs; let us reckon upour blelfings, and we fhail find we havemuch more than our deferts. As he ut¬tered thefe words a gentleman and lady ina high phaeton, attended by two fervants onhorieback, paHTed by. Their appearancefhowed them to be of rank ; the lady wastjibcaurifu!, and looked very good-natured ;land the haymakers admired her as IheI whirled along. The black beaver hat, ador-;jmed with a gold band, and an elegant plume1 of v/hite feathers, waving high above her; head, made her eafily leen at a diftance.5 Peggy fetched another figh. Well! faid Ihe,i I muft not Hand here, my poor children wills want to go to-bed. 1 cannot ride about ata my cafe like that,gay lady—She never knewI what it was to have her feet ache as mine do—What a fine thing it is to be rich !When this lady and gentleman go homethey will have a nice lupper, and lervamsto wait on them, while we, who could en¬joy thde delights as well as our betters,have nothing but bread and cheele.May be fo, and may be not, replied honeftljRobert; but I tell thee once more damejj'do not envy others.—The rich, my goodjfwoman, feldom have fuch a hearty appetite ito their food as labour gives us, and f much 'queftion whether their deep is fo found. God jknows bed what is good for all his creatures—Do not murmur, Peggy, left it fhouldtempt him to take away fome of the comfortshe has been io good as to beftow on us.For my part, I would not change thee forthe grandefl lady in the wor'd ; though, [fuppofe, you had rather be a Duchefs, or fo,'than a poor labourer’s wife ?—Not unlefsyou could be a Duke, replied fire. I fear,laid Robert, 1 (hould make but a RumDuke; and while I have hands to labour,a good clean wife to make home comfort¬able, and dear little children to divert mewith their prattle, I want no more in thisworld. There is a better world to come youknow, which will lad for ever, than whatfignifies a few years of toil and trouble.Poor as we are, there is a crown of glorylaid up in heaven for us, if we will but doour duty—Think of that Peggy ; fo come,lay hold on my arm ; give me the things tocarry, and let us jog forward. Jud as (hewas going to comply with his defire, thephaeton returned empty, with the horles infull fpeed, aud in an indant it was overturn¬ed by a bank, and broke to pieces. Robertand his wife concluded that a misfortune(21)i| htid happened to the gentleman and lady,land ran on towards the place at which they.had juft before loft fight of the phaeton : ina minute after they met one of the lervants,who begged them to go immediately to hislady, who he feared was killed, by beingthrown out of the carriage*The good man and his wife haftened withfall fpeed, while the fervant, with the afiift-ranee of fome other working men, dilcnga-\\ ged the horles, which were taken to a farmer’si; liable. In the mean while Robert and hisIwife beheld a moft affecting fight. Th. )oriyoung lady lay fenfelels on the ground, ha¬lving hit her hea'd againft the ftump of a tree,jjland her brother, in the greateft agony ofipimind imaginable, flood by her, not know.Ing what ftep to take, one of the fervants,however, of his own accord,went to fetch a[urgeon from the neareft town ; but whereto take his fifter to the gentleman knew not,as they were at a diflance from any houfewith which he was acquainted. When hefaw Robert Hardy and his wife he conceiv¬ed hopes that they could .lend him affiftance;and they were ready to do fo to the utmoftof their power. Robert informed the gentle-!man, that his poor habitation was but alittle way off, and his wife could lay the ladyon a clean, though homely bed, with cur¬tains to it, and could alfo fetch in a neigh¬bour, who was a main handy woman. Well,.then, faidthe gentleman, my honeft country-C 22 )man, for God’s fake, help me to carry mydear filler thither immediately. Robertaccordingly raifed the lady up, and (he open¬ed her eyes, but ftared wildly about, withoutthe power of recollection. Peggy Hardyran home, as fall as poffible to get the bed.ready, and prided herfelf in the thought,that (he could produce a good pair oflheetS’and pillow-cafes too, of her own fpinning.Mrs Wilden, having brought home thechildren, was very fortunately in the houle,and. with her ufual prefence of mind, (liema ,-j every neceflary preparation. In afhort time Robert arrived with his lovelyburden. The young lady was, by Mrs.Wilden’s defire, laid upon the bed, and in a..few minutes the ftirgeon came ; but his fidllwas ufelefs ; there was a dreadful traClure inthe fkull, he could give no hopes. Theyoung gentleman, confcious that he had-been the caufc of this misfortune, throughhis imprudence.in driving horfes that werenot fufficiently broke in, was almoddiftradt-ed, and the unhappy parents, for whom theiervant was fent, arrived in the night, jufttime enough to fee their dear daughter ex¬pire. The next day a hearfe carried awaythe lifelefs corple of the late gay and thought-lefs fair one !Well, faid Mrs. Hardy, weeping, after]flie had watched the mournful proceffion tillIhe could fee it no longer—Well ! I havenow been taught, by God himfdf, never to( 23 ):nvy perfons however happy they may ap-)ear. We know not indeed, as the Biblelays, what a day may bring forth. Howlittle did that lovely creature think, whenllhe rode by me in the lane, that Ihe was fobear the end of her journey, aye, and of herlife too 1 and now what good can all herfine deaths and gay carriage do her ? Hertboftly hat and gay feathers could not faveer head, and if fhe had been on foot as Ijwas, fhe might have been alive now.—I amure I ought to be thankful, and blefs God,iihat my wifh was not gratified ; for if it had,[what would have become of my feven dearIchildren !—The poor woman’s tears flowedfafter at this thought, but her hufband an-Cwered, that God, who had taken the ladyfind fpared her, was able to provide for herhildren, if he had thought fit to removeer from them. Our bufinefs, faid he, isnly to do our duty, and not to fuppofethatod cannot provide for others without ourdp. Let us truft, that the young lady heas called from this world was ready to go,nd that if (he has loft the pleafures of thisife, (lie will have higher joys at God’s rightand : but I hope, dame, this misfortunewill ftop your murmuring in future. Youare a good woman ; but like Mary in thejicripture, too much trouble about manyhings. I believe I am, faid fhe, and unmind¬ful of the one thing needful. God forgiveny weaknels, and grant me more ftrength( 24 ^for the time to come !—By his grace, I hope,never more to make mylelf unhappy. Ingeneral l do not (o much care about myfelt, |but the thoughts of your working fo hard, Ithat perhaps it will kill you, and that my |lpoor babes will come to the parilh, pierceme to the heart, Come, faid Robert, giv- jing her a kifs, never fear want j for while;we are willing and indudrious, and there?are good Chriftians in the world, and agood God in heaven, we (hall be fupplied,one way or other, for the little while wehave to flay here, I warrant. O, Peggy!continued he, let us put our whole ttuft inProvidence. We pravcd heaven to bids usin each other when we came together, andnow that he has given us children, andmade us happy by mutual love, I cannotthink he will ever forfake us. Only caftyour thoughts back, and recoiled what hehas done for us! Very true, Robert, faid|his wife, I muft confds that God has everbeen a ready help in time of need, and Ihope I (hall never diftruft his mercy any more.Robert was much pleafed at hearing hiswife talk in this manner; and in the evening.:Mrs. Wilden had a great deal of difeourfewith her neighbour on the fubjed of the ac¬cident, and was happy to find it had madefo proper an impreflion on her mind.finisPrinted hy G Miller, Dunbar.