THELIFE OFMANSIE WAUCHTAILOR IN DALKEITH.For a tailor is a man, a man, a man,And a tailor is a man.GLASGOW ; OF SCOTLAND ^FHINTED FOR THE BOOKSEJ.LERS79i o a a i jIIJJ/ if MW/LAWlMl 1 f/hl/ Q /A ilOJIAT* ■*,/i«m r t. •« * ,ni>m n >• > imt i Kja.nkiu .s m i' iial« bn A■ 4, v/o.i /- j;*rsj3,i.i nAtto<s an r ‘io3 aaTviuiaTHE LIFE OFMANSSK WAOCH.1 was born daring the night of the 15th of Oc¬tober, 1765, iu that little house, standing by it¬self, not many yards from the eastmost side ofthe Flesh-Market Gate, Dalkeith. Long wasit spoken about that something mysterious wouldhappen on that dreary night; as the cat, afterwashing her face, gaed mewing about, with hertail sweeing behind her like a ramrod; and a cor¬bie, from the Duke’s woods, tumbled down JamieElder’s lum, when he had set the little still a-go¬ing—giving them a terrable fright, as they tookit for the deevil and then for an exciseman—andfell with a great cloud of soot, and a loud skraigh,into the empty kail-pot.The first thing that I have any clear memoryof, was my being carried out on my auntie’sshoulder, with a leather cap tied under my chin,to see the Fair Race. Oh ! but it was a grandsight! I have read since then, the story of Alad¬din’s Wonderful Lamp, but this beat it all tosticks. There was a long row of tables, coveredwith carpets of bonny patterns, heaped from oneend to the other with shoes of every kind andsize, some with polished soles, and some glitter-log with sparribles and cuddyheels; and littlered worsted boots for bairns, with blue and whiteedgings, hinging like strings of flowers up theposts at each end;—and then what a collection4of lugo-ies! the whole meal in the market sackson a Thursday did not seem able to fill them:and horn spoons, green and black freckled, with' shanks clear as amber,—and timber caups,—andivory egg-cups of every pattern. Have a careof us ! all the eggs in Smeaton dairy might havefound resting places for their doups in a row.As for the gingerbread, I shall not attempt a dis-cription. Sixpenny and shilling cakes, in paper,tied with skinie; and roundabouts, and snaps,brown and white quality, and parliaments, onstands covered with calendered linen, clean fromthe fold. To pass it was just impossible ; it setmy teeth a-watering, and I skirled like mad, un¬til I had a gilded lady thurst into my little nieve ;the which after admiring for a minute, I appliedmy teeth to and of the head I made no bones : sothat in less than no time, she had vanished, pet¬ticoats and all, no trace of her being to the fore,save and except long treacly daubs, extendingeast and west from ear to ear, and north andsouth from cape nep of the nose to the extremityof beardyland.But what, of all things, attracted my atten¬tion on that memorable day, was the show ofcows, sheep and horses, mooing, baaing, andneighering; and the race—that was best! Od,what a sight!—we were jammed in the crowd ofauld wives, with their toys and shining ribbons;and carter lads, with their blue bonnets; andyoung wenches, carrying home their fairings innapkins, as muekle as would hold their teeth go¬ing for a month ;—there scarcely could he muc-kle for love, when there was so much for thestomach;—aria men with wooden lepfs, and hrasi*r virls at the end of them, playing- on the fiddle,—■ and a bear that roared, and danced on its hindi feet, with a muzzled mouth,—and Punch andPolly,—and puppie-shows and mair than I cantell,—when up came the horses to the starting-: post. I shall never forget the bonny dresses of; the riders. One had a napkin tied round hishead, another had on a black velvet hunting-cap( and his coat stripped O ! but he was a brave ladand sorrow was the folks for him, when he felloff in taking ower sharp a turn, by which auldPullen, the bell-ringer wha was holding the posti was made to coup the creels. And the last wasall life, as gleg as an eel. Up and down he wentand up and down gaed the beast on its hind-legsand its fore-legs, funking like mad ; yet tho’ hewas not aboon thirteen, or fourteen at most, hedid not cry out for help more than five or sixtimes, but grippit at the mane with one handand at the back of the saddle with the other, til,daft Robie, the hostler at the stables claught holdof the beast by the head, and off they set. Theyoung birkie had neither hat nor shoon but he didnot spare the stick; round and round they flewlike daft. Ye would have thought their eenwould have loupen out, and loudly all the crowdwere hurraing, when young hatless came up fore¬most, standing in the stirrups, the long stick be¬tween his teeth, and his white hair fleeing behindhim in the wind like streamers on a frosty night.calf-love.Just after I was put to my ’prenticeship, hav-6rng made free choice of the tailoring trade, I hada terrible stound of calf-love- Never shall I for¬get it. I was growing up, long and lank as awillow-wand, brawns to my legs .there were none,as my trowsers of other years too visibly effectedto show. The long yellow hair hung down, likea flax-wig-, the length of my lantern jaws, whichlooked, notwithstanding my yapnegs and stiif ap¬petite, as if eating and they had broken up ac¬quaintanceship. My blue j;icket seemed in thesleeves to have picket a quarrel with the wrists,and had retreated to a tait below the elbows.The haunch-buttons, on the contrary appearedto have taken a strong liking to the shoulders, alittle below which they showed their tarnishedbrightness. At the middle of the back the tailsterminated, leaving the well-worn rear of my cor¬duroys, like a full moon seen through a darkhaze. Oh 1 but I must have been a bonnylad.My first flame was the minister’s lassie, Jess,a buxom and forward queen, two or three yearsolder than myself. I used to sit looking at herin the kirk, and felt a droll confusion when pureen met. It dirled through my heart like a dart,and I looked down at my psalm-bpok sheepishand blushing. Tain would I have spoken to Ijer,but it would not do; my courage aye failed mgat the pinch, though she whiles gave my a smilewhen she passed me. She used to go tP thewell every night with her twa stoups, to drawwater after the manner of the Israelites at gloam¬ing; so I thought of watching to give her thetwo apples which I had carried in my pouch for-i7:re than a week, for that purpose. How sheghed when I stappit them into her hand, andashed by without speaking ? 1 stood at theEtom of the close listening, and heard herfghlrig till she was like to split. My heartp flappit in jny breast like a pair of fanners.Was a foment of heavenly hope; but I sawthie Coom, the blacksmith, who I aye jealous-was my rival, coming down to the well. IA' her give him one of the apples : and hearingn say with a loud gaffaw, “ Where is the tai-;• ?” I took to my heels, and never stopped tillfound myself on the little stool by the fireside,d the hamely sound of my mother’s wheel bum-umming in my lug, like a gentle lullaby.'Every noise I heard flustered me, but I cal¬led in time, though I went to my bed withouty supper. When I was driying out the gais-iigs to the grass on the next morn, who was ity ill fate to meet but the blacksmith, “ Ou,ifansie,” said Jamie Coom, “are ye gaun to;ke me for your best man ? I hear you are to belied in the kirk on Sunday ?”: “ Me !” answered I, shaking and staring.“ Yes!” said he, “Jess the minister’s maididd me last night, that you had been giving upour name at the manse. Ay, it’s ower true—.>r she showed me the apples ye gied her in aresent. This is a bonny story, Mansie, mynan, and you only at your ’prenticeship yet.”Terror and despair had struck me dumb. 1Itood as still and as stiff as a web of buckram,dy tongue was tied and I couldna contradict himamicfaulded his arms, and gaed away whistling,ftT8turning every now and then his sooty face ov-ihis shoulder, and mostly sticking his tune, as Dcould not keep his mouth screwed for laughingWhat would I not have given to have laugheiito!There was no time to be lost; this was the S;fturday. The next rising sun would shine on thiSabbath. Ah, what a case I was in I coulmostly have drowned myself, had I not beeifrighted. What could I do ? My love had vaniished like lightning : but oh, I was in a terribl lgliff! Instead of gundy, I sold my thrums ti,Mrs Walnut for a penny, with which I boughjiat the counter a sheet of paper and a pen ; so thain the afternoon I wrote out a letter to the min-iiis ter, telling him what I had been given to hear]and begging him, for the sake of mercy, not ti,believe Jess's word, as I was not able to keep awife, and as she was a leeing gipsy.PUSHING MY FORTUNE.The days of the years of my ’preuticeship hav- ■ing glided cannily over on the working-board ofmy respected maister, James Hosey, where I sat iworking cross-legged like a busy bee, in the truespirit of industrous contentment. I found myselfat the end of the seven year, so well instructedin the tailoring trade, to which I had paid a near¬sighted attention, that, without more ado, I girtmyself round about with a proud determinationof at once cutting my mother’s apron string, andventuring ro go without a hold. Thinks 1 tomyself “ faint heart never won fair lady;” so,raking my stick in my hand, I set out towards9Edinburgh, as brave us a iiii'lander in search ufa journeyman's place. 1 rnay set it down to an|especial providence, that f found one, on the veryfirst day, to my heart's content in by at theGrassmarket, where I stayed for the space of sixcalendar months.Had it not been from a real sense of the dutyI owed to my future employers, whomsoeverthey might be, in making myself a first-ratehand in the cutting, shaping, and sew ing line, 1would not have found courage in my breast tohave helped me out through such a long anddreary time.Never let us repine, howsomever, but consi¬der that all is ordered for the best. The sons otthe patriarch Jacob found out their brother Jos¬eph in a foreign land, and where they least ex¬pected it: so it was here—even here where myheart was sickening unto death, from my dailyand nightly thoughts being as bitter as gall—that I fell in with the greatest blessing of mylife, Nanse Cromie 1In the flat below our workshop lived MrsWhitterraick, the wife of Mr. Whitterraick, adealer in hens and Hams in the poultry market,who coming from the Lauder neighbourhoodhad hired a bit wench of a lassie that was tofollow them come the term. And who think yeshould this lassie be, but Nanse Cromie, after¬wards, in the course of a kind providence, thehonoured wife of my bosom, and the mother of< bonny Benjie.In going up and down the stairs,—it being acommon entrv, ve observe—me may be troino10down with my evfery day hat on to my dinner,and she coming up, carrying a stoup of water, orhalf a-pound of pouthered butter on a plate, witha piece of paper thrown over it,—we frequentlymet half-way, and had to stand still to let oneanother pass- Nothing came of these forgether-ings, howsomever, for a month or two, she beingas shy and modest as she was bonny, with herclean demity short gown, and snow-white morn¬ing mutch, to say nothing of her cherry mou,and me unco douffie in making up to strangers.We could not help, nevertheless, to take aye astoun look of each other in passing ; and I was agone man, bewitched out of my seven senses, fall¬ing from my claes, losing my stomach, and overthe lugs in love, three weeks and some odd daysbefore ever a single syllable passed between usiIf ever a man loved and loved like mad, it wasme, Mansie Wauch,— and I take no shame in theconfession; but, kenning it all in the course ofnature, declared it openly and courageously inthe face of the wide world. Let them laugh wholike; honest folk, I pity them;—such know notthe pleasures of virtuous affection. It is not incorrupted sinful hearts that the fire of true lovecan ever burn clear. Alas, and ohon orie ! theylose the sweetest, cbmpletest, dearest, truestpleasure that this world has in store for its child¬ren. They know not the bliss to meet, thatmakes the embrace of separation bitter. Theynever dreamed the dreams that make awakeningto the morning light unpleasant. They neverfelt the raptures that can dirl like darts througha man’s soul from a woman’s ee. They never11tasted the honey that dwells on a woman’s lip,sweeter than yellow maryyolds to the bee; orfretted under the fever of bliss that glows throughthe frame on pressing the hand of a suddenly met,and fluttering sweetheart. But tuts-tuts-^-hech-how ! my day has long since past; and this isstuff to drop from the lips of an auld fool. Ne¬vertheless, forgive me, friends : I cannot help all-powerful nature.Nanse’s taste being like my own, we amusedone another in abusing great cities: and it is cur¬ious how sooh I learned to be up to trap—I meanin an honest way; for, when she said she waswearying the very heart out of her to be homeagfain to Lauder, which, she said, was her nativeand the true land of Goshen, I spoke back to herby way of artswer^-“ Nancy my dear,” says I,“ believe me that the real land of Goshen is outat Dalkeith; and if ye’ll take up house wf me,and enter into a way of doing', I daursay in awhile ye’ll come to think so t60.”What Will you say there ? Matters were by-and-by settled full tosh between us ; aAd thoughthe means of both parties were small, we wereyoung, and able and willing to help one another.For two three days, I must confess, after Nanse,{hid me found ourselves in the comfortable situa¬tion of man and wife, I was a dowie and depend¬ing, thinking we were to have a’ numerous smallfamily and where work was to come from; butno sooner was my sign nailed up, with four ironhaudfasts by Johnny Hammer, painted in blackletters, on a blue ground, with a picture of a jac¬ket on one side and a pair of shears on the other,12and my shop door opened to the public with awheen ready-made waistcoats, gallowses, leather-caps, and Kilmarnock cowls, hung up at the window, than business flowed in upon us in a per¬fect torrent. First one came in for his measure,and then another; a wife came in for a pair ofred worsted boots for her bairn, but would nottake them for they had not blue fringes. A bare¬headed lassie, hoping to b/e hansel, threw downtwopence, and asked tape at three yards a half¬penny. The minister sent an old black coat beneath his maid’s arm, prinned up in a towel, tofet docked in the tails down into a jacket: whichtrust I did to his entire satisfaction, making itfit to a hair. The Duke’s butler himself patron¬ised me, by sending me a coat which was allhair powder and pomate, to get a new neck putto it.No wonder than we attracted customers, forour sign was the prettiest ye ever saw, thoughthe jacket was not just so neatly painted, as forsome sand-blind creatures not to take it for agoose. I daresay there were fifty half-nakedbairns glowring their een out of their heads at it,from morning till night: and, after they all weregone to their beds, both Nanse and me found our¬selves so proud of our new situation in life, thatwe sliped out in the dark by ourselves, and hada prime look at it w ith a lantern.MANSIK WAUCH’s FIUST AND LAST PLAY.Many a time and often had I heard of play-13acting, and of players making themselves kingsand queens, and saying a great many wonderfulthings; but L had never before an opportunityd making myself a witness to the truth of thesehearsays. So Maister Glen, being as fu’ of non¬sense, and as fain to have his curiosity gratified,we took upon us the stout resolution to gang ourthegither, he offering to treat me, and I deter¬mined to run the risk of Maister VViggie, ourminister’s rebuke, for the transgression, hopingit would make na lasting impression on his mind,being for the first and only time. Folks should-na at a’ times be ower scrupulous.After paying our money at the door, never,while I live and breathe, will I forget, what wesaw and heard that night; it just looks to me, bya’ the world, when I think on’t, like a fairy dream.The place was crowded to the ee, Maister Glenand me having nearly got our ribs dung in, beforewe fand a seat, and them behint were obliged tomount the back benches to get a sight. Rightto the fore hand of us was a large green curtain,some five or six ells wide, a guid deal the waurof the wear, having seen service through two orthree simmers, and just in the front of it wereeight or ten penny candles, stuck in a board fast¬ened to the ground, to let us see the players’ feetlike, when they came on the stage, and even be¬fore they came on the stage, for the curtain be¬ing scrimpit in length, we saw legs and feet mov¬ing behind the scenes very neatly, while twablind fiddlers, they had brought with them, play¬ed the bonniest ye ever heard. Odd, the verymusic was worth a sixpence of itsell.14The place, as I said before, was choke full,just to excess, so that ane could scarcely breathe.Indeed I never saw ony pairt sae crowded, no«even at a tent-preaching, when Mr Roarer wTasgiving his discourses on the building of Solo¬mon’s Temple. We were obligated to have thewindows opened for a mouthful of fresh air, thebarn being as close as a baker’s oven, my neigh¬bour and me fanning our red faces with our tatsto keep us cool, and, though all were half stewed,we had the worst o’t, the toddy we had ca’enhaving fomented the blood of our bodies into aperfect fever.Just at the time that the twa blind fiddlerswere playing the Downfall of Pftris, a hand-bellrahg and up goes the green curtain, being hauledto the ceiling, as I observed wi’ the tail o’ my ee,by a birkie at the side, that had baud o’ a rope.So, on the music stopping and all becoming asstill as that you might have heard a pin fall, incomes a decent old gentleman, at his leasure,weit powdered, wi’ au auld-fashioned coat, andwaistcoat rvi’ flap pockets, brown breeches, withbuckles at the kneCs, and silk stockings, with redgushets on a blue ground. I never saw a manin sic distress; he stampit about, and better stam-pit about, dadding the end of his staff- on theground, and emploring all the powers of heavenand yearth to help him to find out his run-awa’daughter, that had decampit wi’ some neerdowellloon of a halfpay captain; that keppit her in hisarms frae her bod-room window, up twa pair o’stairs. Every father and head of a family maunhue felt for a tnan in his situation, thus to be rub-15bit of his dear bairn, and an only daughter too,as he tell’t us ower and ower again, as the sautsaut tears ran gushing down his withered face,and he aye blew his nose on his clean callenderedpocket napkin. But, ye ken, the thing was ab¬surd to suppose, that we should ken ony thing a-bout the matter, having never seen either him orhis daughter between the een afore, and no kenn¬ing them by head mark; so, though we sym¬pathised with him, as folks ought to do with afellow-creature in affliction, we thought it best tobaud our tongues, to see what might cast up bet¬ter than he expected. So out he gaed stampingat the ither side, determined, he said, to find themout, though he should follow them to the world’send, Johnny Groat’s House, or something to thateffect.Hardly was his back turned, and amaist beforeye could cry Jack Robison, in comes the birkieand the very young leddy the auld gentlemandescribfed, arm and arm thegether, smoodgingand laUching like daft: Dog on it, it was ashameless piece of business. As true as death,before all the crowd of folk, he pat his arm roundher waist, and caad her his sweetheart, and love,and dearie, and darling, and every thing that issweet. If they had been courting in a closs the¬gether, on a Friday night, they couldna haesaidmair to anc anither, or gaen greater lengths. Ithought sic shame to be an eewitneSs to sic on¬goings, that I was obliged at last to hand up myhat afore my face and look down, though, for a’that, the young lad, to be sic a blackguard as hisconduct showed, was well enough faured and had16a giiid coat on his hack, vvi’ double-gilt, buttons,and fashionable lapells, to say little o’ a veryweil-made pair of buckskins, a lettle the vvaur o’the wear to be sure, but which, if they had beencleaned, would hae looked amaist as good asnew. How they had come, we never couldlearn, as we neither saw chaise nor gig; but,from his having spurs on his boots, it is mairthan likely that they had lighted at the back doorof the barn frae a horse, she riding on a pad be-liint him, may be with her hand round his waist.The faither lookit to be a richauld bool, baithfrom his manner of speaking, and the rewardshe seemed to offer for the apprehension of hisdaughter; but, to be sure, when so many of uswere present that had an equal! right to thespulzie, it wad na be a great deal a thousandpounds when divided, still it was worth the look¬ing after; so we just bidit a wee.Things were brought to a bearing, whosoever,sooner than either themsells, I daur say, or ony-body else present seemed to hae the least glim¬pse of; for just in the middle of their fine going-on, the sound of a coming fit was heard, and thelassie taking guilt to her, cried out, “ Hide me,hide me, for the sake of gudeness, for yondercomes my old father !”Nae sooner said than done. In he stappit herinto a closet; and, after shutting the door on her,he sat down upon a chair, pretending to be as¬leep in a moment. The auld fiiither came bounc¬ing in, and seeing the fellow as sound a;> a tap,be ran forrit and gaed him sich a shake, as if hewad hue shooken him a’ sundry, which sane made17him open his een as fast as he had steekitthem.After blackguarding the chield at no allowance,cursing him up hill and down dale, and caainghim every name but a gentleman, he haddit hisstaff ower his crown, and gripping him by thecuff o’ the neck, askit him what he had made o’his daughter. Never since I was born did I eversee sich brazen-faced impudence ! The rascelhad the brass to say at ance, that he hadna seenword or wittens o’ his daughter for a month,though mair than a hundred folk sitting in hiscompany had seen him dauting her with his armround her jimpy waist, not five minutes before.As a man, as a father, as an elder of our kirk,my corruption was raised, for I aye hated leeing,as a pair cowardly sin, and an inbreak on the tencommandments: and I fand my neebour MrGlen, fidgetting on the seat as weel as me ; so Ithocht, that whaever spoke first wad hae the bestright to be entitled to the reward; where¬upon, just as he was in the act of rising up, Itook the word out of his mouth, saying, “ l)in-na believe him, auld gentleman, dinna believehim, friend ; he’s telling a parcel of lees. Ne¬ver saw her for a month ! It’s no worth arguing,or caaing witnesses; just open that press door,and ye’ll see whether I’m speaking truth or no.”The auld man stared, and lookit dumb-found-ered : and the young man, instead of rinning for-rit wi’ his double nieves to strike me, the onlything I was feared for, began a laughing, as if Ihad dune him a gude turn. But never since Ihad a being, did 1 ever witness an uproar andnoise as immediately took place. The haillji18houso was sue glad that the scoundrel had beenexposed, that they set up siccan a roar o’ lauch-ter, and thumpit away at siccan a rate at theboards \vi’ their feet, that at lang and last, wi’pushing, and fidgetting, and hadding their sides,down fell the place they ea’ the gallery, a’ thefolk in’t being liurled tapsy-turvy, head foremostamang the saw-dust on the floor below; theirguffawing sune being turned to howling, ilka anecrying louder than anither ait the tap of their voi¬ces, “ Murder! murder ! baud off me ; mgrder |my ribs are in; murder! I’m lulled—I’m speech¬less !” and ither lamentations to that effect; sothat a rush to the door took place, in whicheverything was overturned—the door keeper be¬ing wheeled away like wildfire—the furms stram-pit to pieces—the lights knockit out—and thetwa blind fiddlers dung head foremost ower thestage, the bass fiddle cracking like thunder atevery bruise. Siccan tearing, and swearing, andtumbling, and squeeling, was never witnessed inthe memory of man, sin the building of Ifabel;legs being likely to be broken, sides staved in,e.en knocked out, and lives lost; there being onlyae door, and that a sma’ ane: so that when wehad been carried off our feet that length, my windwas fairly gane, and a sick dwam cam ower me,lights of a’ manner of colours, red, blue, green,and orange dancing before me, that entirely de¬prived me o’ common sense, till, on openingmy een in the dark, I fand mysell leaning wi’my braid side against the wa’ on the opposite sideof the close. It was sonic time before I minditwhat had happenedso. dreading scaith, I fand19first the ae arm, and then the ither, to see if theywere broken—-syne my head—and syne baith omy Ipgs; but a’, as weel as I could discover, wasskinhale and spart free. On perceiving whicl},my joy was without bounds, having a great no¬tion that 1 had been killed on the spot. So Ireached round my hand, very thankfully, to takout my pocket-napkin, to gie my brow a wipe,when lo and behold the tail of my Sunday’s coatwas fairly aif and away, dopkit by the haunchbuttons.PHILISTINE IN THE COAL-HOLE.It was about the month of March, in the yearof grace anno domini eighteen hunder, that thehaill country trammelled, like a man ill of the in¬terminable fiver, under the consternation of Bon-apartie, and all the French vagabonds emigratingower, and landing in the firth. Keep us a’! thefolk, dydit bodies, pat less confidence than becametherir in what our volunteer regiments were ableand willing to do ; though we had a remnant a-mang us of the true bluid, that with loud lauch-ter lauched the creatures to scorn, and I for ane,keepit up my pluck, like a true Hielander. Doesony leeving soul believe that Scotland could beconquered, and the like o’ us sold, like Egyptianslaves, into captivity? Fie, fie,—I could spit onsicean haevers. Are we no descended, faitherand soil, frae Robert Brace and Sir WilliamWallace, having the bright bluid of freemen inDur veins and the Pentlami bills, as weel as our20ain dear hames ami firesides, to fight for ? Thefief that wadna gie cut-and-thrust for his coun¬try, as lang as he had a breath to draw, or a legto stand on, should be tied neck and heels, with¬out benefit o’ clergy, and thrown ower Leith pier,to swim for his life like a mangy dog!It was sometime in the blasty month of March,the weather being rawish and rainy, wi’ sharpfrosty nights, that left all the window-soles white¬washed ower with frost-rind in the morning, that,as I was going out in the dark, afore lying dounin my bed, to gie a look into the hen-house door,and lock the coal cellar, so that I might pit thebit key intil my breek pouches, I happened togie a keek in, and, lo and behold, the awfu’ ap¬parition of a man wi’ a yellow jacket, lying soundasleep on a great lump o’ parrot-coal in a cor¬ner.In the hurry of my terror and surprise, at see¬ing a man with a yellow jacket, and a blue tor-aging-cap in such a situation, I was like to drapthe guid two-penny candle, and feint clean a-way ; but comming to mysell in a jiffy, I determin¬ed, in case it might be a high-way rubber, to thrawabout the key, and, rinning up for the firelock,shoot him through the head instantly, if foundnecessary. In turning round the key, the lockbeing in want of a feather o’ oil, made a noise,and waukened the puir wretch, who jumping tothe soles of his feet in despair, cried out in avoice that was like to break my heart, though Icoudna make out ae word of his paraphernally.It minded me, by a’ the world, of a wheen catsfulling and feighting through ither, and whilessomething that sounded like “ Sugar, sugar,measure the cord,” and “ dabble, dabble.” Itwas waur than the maist outrageous Gaelic everspoken in the height o’ passion by a Hielandshearer.‘ Oho !’ thinks I, friend, ye cannot be a Christ¬ian from your lingo, that’s one thing poz ; andI would wager tippence you’re a Frenchy. Whokens keep us all, but ye may be Bonaparte him¬self in disguise, come over in a flat-bottomedboat, to spy the nakedness of the land. So yemay just rest content, and keep your quartersgood till the morn’s morning.’It was a wonderful business, and enough tohappen to a man, in the course of his lifetime, tofind Mounseer from Paris in his coal-neuk, andhave the enemy of his country snug under lockand key; so, while he kept rampaging, fulling,stamping, and diabbling away, I went in, andbrought out Benjie with a blanket rowed roundhim, and my journeyman, Tommy Bodkin,—who being an orphan, I made a kind of parlourboarder of, be sleeping on a shake-down beyondthe kitchen fire—to hold a consultation, and bewitness of the transaction.I got my musket, and Tommy Bodkin armedhimself with the goose, a deadly weapon, who¬ever may get a clour with it, and Benjie tookthe poker in one hand and the tongs in the o-ther; and out we all marched briskly, to makethe Frenchman, that was locked up from the lightof day in the coal house surrender. After heark¬ening at the door for a while, and finding allquiet, he gave a knock to rouse him up, and see22if we could bring anything out of him by speer-mg him cross-questions. Tammy and Benjietrembled from top to toe, like aspen leaves, buttient a word could we make common sense of ita’. I wonder wha edicates thae foreign creat¬ures ? it was in vain to follow him, for he just gab,gabbled awray like ane o’ the stone-masons at thetower of Babel. At first I was completely bam¬boozled, and amaist dung stupid, though I kenta word of French which I wantit to pit till him,so I cried through, Canna you speak. Frencha,Mounseer ?”He hadna the politeness to stop and mak an¬swer, but just gaed on wi’ his string of havers,without either rhyme or reason, which we couldmak neither tap, tail, nor main o’.It was a sair trial to us a’, putting us to ourwits end, and hoo to come on was past all visiblecomprehension ; when Tammy Bodkin gieinghis elbow a claw said, “ Odd maister, I wagersomething that he’s broken loosefrae Pennycuick.We have him like a rot (Jen in a fa.” On Peuny-cuick being mentioned we heard the foreign ma¬ture in the coal house groaning out, ‘ och’ and‘ ohone,’ and ‘ parbleu,’ and ‘ Mysie Rabbie,’—that I fancy was his sweetheart at hame, sum bitFrench queen that wondered he was never liketo come frae the wars and marry her. I. thochton this, for his voice was mournfu’, though Icouldua understand the words ; and kenning hewas a stranger in a far land, my bowels yearnedwithin me with compassion towards him.I wad hae gien half-a-crown, at that blessedmoment, to hae been able to wash my hands free23o’ him; but I swithered, and was like the cuddlebetween the twa bundles of bay. At lang andlast a thocht struck me, which was to gie the de¬luded simple cratur a chance of escape ; reckon¬ing that if he fand his way hame, he wad see theshame and folly of feighting against us ony mair;I and, marrying Maysie Rabbie, live a contentedand peacefu’ life under his ain feg and bey tree.So, wishing him a sound aleep, 1 cried throughthe door,— “ Mounseer, gooda nightadecoying away Benjie and Tammy Bodkin into thehouse, and dispatching them to their beds likelamp-lighters, bidding them never, fash theirthumbs, but sleep like taps, as I would beep a1 sharp look-out till morning.As soon, hoosomever, as I fand a things snug,8 I slippit awa to the coal hole, and glen the key|j a canny turn in the lock, I went to my bed be-<1 side INIarise.j At the dawn o’ day, by cock-craw, Benjie and, Tammy Bodkin, keen o’ the ploy, were up andastir as anxious as if their life depended on it, tosee that all was safe and snug, and that the pris¬oner hadna shot the lock. They agreed to marchsentry over him, half an hour the piece, time a-bout, the ane stretching himsell out on a stoolbeside the kitchen fire, by way of a bench in theguard-house, while the other gaed to and fro likethe ticker of a clock.The back window being up a jink, I heard thetwa confabbing. ‘ We’ll draw cuts,’ said Ben-jic, ‘ which is to walk sentry first; see, here’suwa straes, the langdit gets the choice,’ ‘ I’vewon,’ cried Tammy, ‘ so gang you in a while,24and if I need ye, or grow frightened, I’ll beatleather-ty-patcn wi’ my knuckles on the backdoor. But we had better see first what he is a-bout, for he may be howking a hole through a-neath the foundations; thae fiefs can work likemoudiewards.’—‘ I’ll slip forrit,’ said Benjie,‘ and gie a peep,’—‘ Keep to a side,’ cried Tam¬my Bodkin, ‘ for, dog on it, Moosey’ll maybehae a pistol;—and, if Ms birse be up, he wouldthink nae mair o’ shooting ye as dead as a maw-kin than I would do of taking my breakfast.‘ I’ll rin past, and gie a knock, at the doorwi’ the poker to rouse him up ?’ askit Benjie.‘ Come away then,’ answered Tammie, ‘ andye’ll hear him gie a yowl, and commence gab¬bling like a goose.’As all this was going on, I rose and took avizzy between the chinks of the window-shut¬ters ; so, just as I got my neb to the hole, I sawBenjie, as he flew past, give the door a drive,Ilis consternation, on finding it flee half open,may be easier imagined than described, for, ex¬pecting the Frenchman to bounce out like a roar¬ing lion, they hurried like mad into the house,couping the creels ower ane anither, Tammiespraining his thumb against the back door, andBenjie’s foot, going into Tammie’s coat pocket,which it carried away with it, like a cloth sandal;what became o’ the French vagrant is a mattero’ surmise,—nae mortal kens.FINJS.