. H I S T O R YO F' ' / ^ kJack the Giant-killer.With an Account of hisInvilible Coat, Cap of knowledge, Shoesof fwifmefs, and Sword of fliarpnels.¥mmur.mmtm?m mAi lStiriing, printed by C. Randall,( CF SCOfTLAffBT 'H EHISTORY of JACK jind the GIANTS.Of bis birth find parentnge, and what paf between |ihim and the ccwitry Vicar.IIN the reign of King Ar hur, near the Landf- 1end pf Enp’and, namely the country of Corn- uwall there lived a wealthy Farmer, who had oneonly Son, commonly known bv the namecf Jackthe Giant-killer. He was briik and of a readywit; fo that ..whatever he could not perform byftrength he ccnipleated by ingenious wit and po- rlicy : Never was any peHbn heard of that couldworft him ; ray, tb“ very le rncd many times hebaffled by his cunning fharpand ready inventions. LFor fnftance, when he was no more than fevenyears of age, his FaUier. the Farmer, lent him in¬to the field to look . f er his which were .then feeding in pleafirt p >fture : A . ountrv Vicarby chance coming acfols the field, call’d to Jack,and affled him ftveral cjucfticns : in particular,Flow commancmcr.ts there were ? Jack ,•told him there were n;ne The parlon replied, I.There are ten Nay, <pmth Jack, hLdhr par-. rfen, you are out of that; it is true there was ten, Lbut you broke one of them with your own maidMargery ! h ■ parfon replied. Thou art an arch ]/Wag, Jack Weil mailer parfon, queth Jack. \cm .have afked me one quellion, and I have anlwered {it; I befcech you let me afk you arotber. Who ;made tiieie oxen ? The parfon replied, God made .them, child. You are cut again, quoth Jack, for :tho’ k ■( 3 >tho’ he made them bulls, my Father and his mao.Hobfon made ox^n of them. Thefe were theswittv aniwers of Jack. The parfon ft' dinghimfelf fooled, trudged away, leaving Jack in afit of aughter.Hciv a Giant inhabited the Mount of Cornwallt andJpailed the country thereabouts.IN thole days the mount of Cornw?.ll was keotby a huge and monilrous Giant, of 2") feet tnheight, and about three yards in compafs of a. 'fierce an.: grim countenance, to the terror of allthe neighbouring towns aftd villages His habi¬tation was in a c.’.vc, in the mi oft of a mount,.neither would he fuller aoy living creature toinhabit near him : His feeding was upon ethermt ns cattle, winch often hr came his pray ; forwhenloever he had occ.dion tor fond, he would-wade over to the main-^nd, wh re he would fur-nilh himfelf with whatever he could find , for diepeople, at his approach, would for ake their'na-bitationj, then would fiivte upon th.ir cows and.oxen, of which he vvotnu make nothing to carry"over on his back half a dozen at a time ; and asfor the Iheepand hegc, he would tye them roundhir waift like a bunch of bandoliers. This he fori many years had pract fed in Cornwall, which,i -was mtich impovenfhed bv h m.iiut one day jack coming to the Town-Hall,i when the Magiftrates were fitting in coiiiterna-tion about the Giant, he afked them what re¬ward they would give to any perfon that wouldUdeltroy h;m ? They anlwe’-ed, M • fhall jtave alltht treafure in recompence i^uoth Jack, then.(ft I myfclf will undertake the work./ Ho vs1 >I( 4 )flew Jack Jlciv tlis Giant, and get the nameJack the Giant-killer. tJack having undertaken this talk, he furnifh- ted himfelf with a horn, a (hovel, a pick-ax, and 'over to the mount he goes, in the becinning cfa dark winter evening, where he fell to work,and before morning had digged a pit two and1!twenty feet deep, and alrnoft as broad, and co- •vered the fame over with long flicks and draw :then ftrowiug a little of the mould upon it, fo itappeared like the plain ground. »This done, Jack plates hi in (elf on the contraryfide of the pit, juft about the dawning of the day,when putting his horn to his mouth., he then blew,“ TVn Twivie, Tan Tw vie ” Which unexpec¬ted rode roiszed (he Giant, who came roaringtowards Jack, crying, thou incorrigible villain !are you come here to ctifhtrb my reft ? You fhaildearly pay for it : Satisfaction 1 will have, and itfhall by this; I will take thee wholly, and broilyou for my breakfaft Wh'uh words were t ofooner out of his mouth, but he tumbled head¬long into the deep pit, whofe heavy fall made thevery foundation of the mount to fitake Gh !Giant, where are v; u now ? I tjurk you aregotten into Lob’s pond, where I wilt plagueyou for your threatening words. What do youthink now of broil ng me for your breakfart: ?Will no other diet ferve 50U but poor Jack ?'Thus having tantaliz'd the Giant for a while, hegave him a moft weighty knock upon the crownof his head, with his pick-ax, that he immedi¬ately tumbled down, giving a molt dreauful groandied. This dfne, Jack threw the earth inupept ,f s > \ropon him and f.- buried fe-'m-li fn g'in'» W#’fearching tbc cave, he fou-a-'" a gteat oftreaEfiireNow when the Ma^'-flrate?, who emplhim, heard the work was ©v r, th- y fent for hitr^Sdedaring, tnat he fbou!.* b. nee forth be caked#Jack the Grant-killer An, m honour thereof#i !th v or.iVnted hi.n with a fword, together vt'idi| a fin l idt - mbroidered belt, on which thefe words'were --wrought moil elegantly in Setters of gold,I ' He-e's the right valiant Cornifh Man,Who Hew the Giant Cormutan,' ^ How 'Jack was taken by « Giant while njleep, andtow he get his liberty again.TThe .news of Jacks victory was (bon fpreadover aii the we hern parts ; to that another hugeGunt. niDved BlunUerboar, hearing of ir, vow’di to be revt rgeJ on J t k. if ever it was in hisI fortune to light up n Him 1 h;s Giant kept aninchanted Caltle, ticuated in the miaft of a lone-fome wood : Now jack, ab ;ut f mr months after,■ walking near the borders of the faid wood, on’ : his journey towards Wales, he grew very wearyt and thuef ire fat himielf down by the fide of ai pleafanc fountain, where a dee,) fT.ep fuddenly■ feized on him at which time the Giant coming• there for water, found him, and by the lineswrr n upon his b^t, knew him to be Jack thatkilled his brother Giant, and therefore, withoutmaking any words, he throws him upon hisihoulucr, for to carry him to his iachanted. I caftleNow, as thty pafied through a thicket, the| ra iling of the bp ighs a waked poor jack, whofindingIpI 5 1$n$ng VunfeVf ftrangpU farpriferl, T*t it vva' butdh hepinning of his terrors ; for he b:heid theground all c virec w ith hones and Icu'ls of dead*rer ; the Giant tedinr Jacte that his bones would®ntargf the number that he f’w. This faid, hebr tight him into a large parlour, where he be-he .! the hltaody quarters of fome that were larelyfliin ; and in the react room w'ere many heartsand livers : The Gianr, to terrifv Jack, told him,e> ”Vnt mens hearts and livers were the rhoicefttt of hi' d'et; for he commonly eat them withpepp r <nd v'nepar : adtling, that he did notqueltii n huf Ins heart would make him a daintybit ” hts faid. he locks up poor Jack in anuppe r room, leaving him there, while lie wentto fetch another Giant, living in the fame wood,tb :t he migh. fee partaker in the pleaiure whichthey would have in the deftruction of poor Jack.Now, while be w'as gone, dreadful Ihrieksand cries afF' ;ghted Jack, efpecially a voice whichcontinually cried.Do vh at you can to get away.Car you’ll become the Giant’s prey,He’s gone to fetch his brother, whoWill kill and likewiie torture you.This dreadful ncife fo affrighted poor Jack,that he was ready to run did raffed : i’heo feeingfrom a window afar off, the two Giants comingtogether ; now', quoth Jack, my death or deliver¬ance is at handThere was fir. ng cords in the room by him,of which he takes two, at the end of which hemade a rcofe > and while the Giant wras unlock¬ing the iron gate, he threw the ropes over eachot th< ir heads, and then drawing the other s.ndacrots the beam, he pulled with all his might,untilt 1 )until hf* choked them . and then fafi-enlng th®rope to the br tn. :u ,ed then towards ttie win¬dow where he beh 5 the two Gn»>. alackth ir faces : Then fl' nng down by the rop", hecame c ofe to their heads, where the h-tplet*•Giants c mid not defend themfelves; and drawingout his fword, fl w them both, and deliveredhimfelf from their intended crur.ty : Ha then,i 'taking the bunch pi keys, he unlocked the rooms,where, upon a ftrict fearch, he f und three fairLadies tied by the hair of their heads, aitnoft;;{tarved to death, who told Jack, That theirbulb ands were flain by the Giant, and tht£ theywere kept many days without food, in order tnforce them to feed upon the fleih of their huf-bands, to ehich they could not confcnt to doSweet Ladies, quoth Jack. I have dettroyed; this Monfter, and his brutilh brother, by whichI have obtained your liberties ! his faid, heprefented them with the keys of the cattle, andlo proceeded on his journey into Wales,Hoio Ja k travelled into Flintjhirey and nhathappened there.JACK having but very little money, thoughtit prudent to make the bed of his way by travel¬ling as fall: as he could , but lolling his road wasbenighted., and could not yet a place of enter¬tainment, until he came to a valley placed be- ,tween two bills, where ftood a large houfe in aIon dome pice; anti by re..fon of his p efent:• condition he took courage to knock at the gate*n ; and, to hi* lurprife, there came forth a inonfl:-r is Giant, having two head- ; yet he, did notkeni fa iiery as the others had. been, far he wasI a Welih( * )a Wei til G ’ant, and what lie did was by private rand fecret malice, under the falfe (hew of friend-ihip for Jack telling his condition, he hi l him .welcome, fhewing him a room with a bed in it,whereupon he might take his right’s repofe : •r’ herefore Jack undrefles himfelf, and as tbe ■Giant was walking away to another apartment, ,J« .k heard him mutter tbefe words to himfelf, 1‘-■ ho’ here you lodge with nv’ this night, iYou 11 all not fee the morning light, [-My -club ihall dafh your braias out-right. jSav’d thou fo, <]uoth Jack, that is like one ofyour Welfh tricks, yet I hope to be cunning 'enough for you. Then getting out of bed, he •pur a billet in his (lead, and hid bimfelf in a cor¬ner of the room ; and in the dead-time of the inight, the Welfh Giant came with his great knot¬ty club, and Truck (everal blows upon the bed rwhere Jack had laid the billet, and then returned 1to his own chamber, fuppofing he had broken all rthe bones in his body In the morning Jack gave !him hearty thanks tor his lodging : ! he Gant jalked him how he rtfted ? and if he felt anything in the night ? Nothing, quoth Jack, buta rat width gave me three or four ilaps with hertail. Soon after the Giant arofe, and went to <breakf-.ft with a bowl of halfy-pudding, contain- •ing ncur four gallons, giving jack the like quan¬tity j who, being loath to let the Giant know he >1could not ear with him, got a large leather bag,put it artfully under his loofe coat, into whichhe feLretiy conveyed his padding, telling theGiant, he could dhow him a trick : Then takinga large knife, he ripped open the bag, which theG 'am iuppofed to be his belly, when our came pthe baity .podding At which the Giant cried out.Cuts j( 9 )«ats-pVut, hnr can do dat trick hurfrff. Thefttaking his (liarp knife, he ripped up his own bellyrom the bottom to the top, and out dropped hisgripes and trolly-bags, fo that hur fell down forlead Thus Jack out-witted the-Giant, and pro-'ceded forward on his journey.H.'ic IQ'ig Arthur's Son going to feek his fortune^met with Jack} (Sc.King Arthur’s fon only defired of las father,o iuinuh him with i certain fum of money, thatte might go ana leek his fortune in the princi-ality of Wales, where a beautiful Lady lived,vliom he beard was pofl'ffed with fevtn evil|>i) its : Jhut tire King, his f thtr, advifed hintUterly agdnld it, yet he would not be perfuadedxom it : io that he granted what he requefted,Sdiich was one horfe loaded with money, and.bother for himtelf to ride on : i'hus he fet out, iith 'ut any attendanceNow after teveral days travel, he came to aaarkct-town in Walts, where he beheld a largebncourfe of people gathered together ; the king’s;pn deman Jed the realon of it, and was'told, thathey had arrd'ted a corpfe, for many large fumsf money, whi di the deceafed owed when he diedi,he king’s ion replied, it is a pity that creditorsfiould be io cruel : Go bury the dead, faid he, ,nd let the creditors come to my lodging, andjbeir debts ihali be dslcharged. Accordingly theypne, and in fuch great numbers, that before.1 light he had aimolt Icit himfeif moneylefsNow Jack the Giant-killer being there, andseing the general! y of the king’s ion, he wasliken with.him, ami dtfired, to be his fervant:k( IO )It was agreed upon, and the next morning tljet forward ; when, at the town-end; an old wo¬man cahed after him, crying out, He was owinme two pence thefe five years ; pray, fir, pay nida? wed as the reft ? He purs his hand into hisp >cket, and gave it her, it being the Lift he hadJcft : Then the king’s Ion turning to J ck, laid,I cannot tell how 1 ihall fubtift in my intended'journey For that, quoth Jade, take you noithong1',!, I’ll warrant you we will not want.how Jack having a find 1 fpdl in his pocketwhich fierved at noon to give them a refrefhmentwhen done, they had not one penny left betwixtthem •, the afternoon they fpent in travel and!familiar friendly difeourfe, till the fun began to:grow low, at which time the King’s ion laid,J" ck, fince v.'C have no money, where can weithink- to lodge this night ? Jack replied, Mafter,1 rwe'll do well enough ; for 1 have an uncle lives!w ithin two little miles of this place : he’s a huge:and monftrous Giant, with three heads ; he’llfight five hundred men in armour, and makethem to fly before him. Alas ! quoth the king’sfon. what Ihall we do there ? He’ll certainlychop us both up ai one mouthful ! Nay, wsare fcarce enough to fill one of his hollow teeth.It is no ma ter fi r hat, quoih Jack, I myfiifwill go before, and prepare the way for you;therefore ta.iy here ana wait my returnHe waits, and Jack rides full (peed, whencoming to the gates of the caftie, h“ knock’dwith fiuch a force, that he made all the neigh-b ui ng hills relound i'hc Giant, with a voicelike thunder, roared out, VVh-Vs there i Heaalwered, None but yiur poor couim J tek,quo lb ue. Wi*8l hews with my poor couiitiJacK ic ** /Jick ? 'He replied. Dear unde, heavy news !Cot-wor, prirhee, what heavy news can cometo me ? I am a giant with three heads ; and be-fide^, thou knows, I can fight five hundred menin armour, and make them fly like chaff before• * the wind. Oh ! but, ouoth Jack, here’s theking’s Ton coming with a thouland men in ar-! mour to kill you, and deftroy all that you have,i Oh ! coufin Jack, this is heavy news indeed : Ihave a large vault under the ground, where Iwill immediately hide myfelf, and thou lhalt lock,holt and bar me in, ana keep the keys till theking’s fon is goneNow Jack having fecured the Giant, he foorlreturnee and feteheJ his mafler, and were both>! heartily merry with the wine, and o'ker dain-. ties which were in the houfe ; So that night theyrefted in very pleaiant lodgings, whilfl the pooruncle, the Giant, lay trembling in the vault un¬der ground Early in the rooming Jack furniih-ed his mafler with a fr. !h lupply of gold and fil-ver, and then let him three mi!es forward on hi*journey; concluding he then was pretty well out. 1 of toe (mel! of the Giant.Jack returned to let his uncle out of the hole,who alke i him what he thould give hint in re-waru his caftie was not demolifh’d ? Why, quothJack, 1 deiire nothing but the old coat and cap,together with the fword and flippers, which arcat your bed head. Quoth the Giant, thou (halthave them; a; d pray keep them for my fake,for they are things of excellent uie : i he coatwit: keep you inviilblc ; the cap will furnifh youwith kno wledge ; the I word cu s ia funder what¬ever you Ib ike ; and the ihoCs are of xtraor. i-nary 1 wifinels J.rk ’akrs them, thmkin^ hisJIow Jack faved his Mafler’s life, and drove thetvil /pints out oj a Lady.JACK having overtaken his mafter, they Toonafter arrived at the Lady's houie : who findingthe king’s ion to be a Kit or, fire pn pared a ban¬quet for h m : which being ended, ihe wiped hismouth with her handkerchief, faying, Ycun u't Sfbew nie tiiis once to-morrow-moinirg, or elielofe j our head : And with that fhe put it intoher own bcfooi. Lite king’s fon w'ent to bedvery forrowfu1, but Jack’s cap cf knowledge ir.-firufted him licw to obta n it.In the middle of the night fire tailed upon herfamiliar ipirit, to cm ry her to ter fritnd Lucifer.Jack icon put on his coat cf carknels, with bisihot s of fwiftneis, and was there as fbon as her :but by reason cf his co ;t they could m;t Jee htm.When ihe entered the palace, li e gave the hand-ktreh ef to old Lucifer, who laid i. upon a fhelf}from whence Jack took it, and brought it to hisinafter, who (hewed it to the La^.y the mxt day,and io laved his hfe.Ti e next night (1 e fnjuied the king’s fon,teliing him, he n;uft fhew her to-morrow-morn-ing the jips that ihc Lifted laft this night, or iefehis Uc2d Ah I replied he, if you kiis none butmine, l will. ’ Lis ntichtr here nor there, Kidfhe, if you do not, death’s your portion Atmidnight (he went as 'before, and was angry with3m. Her fi r letting the hanokeichief go : but now,laid fhe, I w ill be tuo hard for the Ling’s fon, forI will kiis thee, ind lie’s to (hew thy ftps . whichihe i id Jack funning near nim with his f orclof iharpnefs, cut off hit feud, brought it underi( 13 )i:,s inyifible coat to his maft?r, who was hi bed,r>d laid it at the end of his bolder. la the'iorning, when the Lady came up he pullea itut, and (hewed her the lips (he kifled laft.Thus having aniwered her twicCj the enchant-jent broke, and the evil fphit left her ; at whichme (he appeared in all her beauty. They wereCarried the next morning in great pomp andlemnity, and fjon after returned, with a num-ous company, to the court of King Arthurhere they were received with the greatel't joy.ick, for his great exploits, was made one ofK Knights of the Round A able.PART SECOND.Jack, by King Arthurs leave.* yjent jn pur faitf Giants yet alive.JACK having been fucctfsful in all his under-.kmgs, and rrfolving not to be idle; humblytouched the King to give 1 ini a horfe and mo»y, to travel in iea:ch of new adventures.The king having heard his n -bit; propofitions" the deltruiHon of the bloody Giants who (till ^efted Wales and other parts of his Majefly's■minions., he immediately gi anted what hondt:k requefted. So being thoroughly fwniimedh ad nectffaries, and taking leave of the kingf I5*s nobits, Jack fet out, taking with him the» o( knowledge, the (word of iharpneis, the:»es of iwiftne's, and the invifible coat, the bet-to perk cf arm complete the dangerous enter-fees that lay before him.Hovj( 14 }How Jark Jlew a Giant, and delivered a Knigband Ids Lady from death.JACK travelling over vaft hil's and worddrfu .mpuntaii s, at the end of three dats^he came tra large and (parlous wood through which himuft needs pais, where, on a fu idtn, to his greaiamazement he heard dreadful Ihriek? and cries'where, upon carting his eves around, to obfervwhat it might be, beheld with wonder a Gian,rulhing along with a worthy knight and his failady, which he held by the hair of their headin his hands, with as much eale, as if they ha ,betn but a pair of gloves ; the light of whicmelted poor Jack into tears of pity and comphfion : wherefore he alighted off from his horfi .which he left tied to an ©aic-tree, and then pulting on his invifible Coat, snder which h carriehis fword of lharpnels, he came up to the G.an. ^and th ugh he made fever a 1 partes at him, y %,never heiels it could not reach the trunk of h:hooy, by reafon of his height, tho’ it woundehis thighs in levera! p!ac s ; but at length givttnhim a twinging ftroke, he cur off both his leg)juft below the knees, fo that the trunk of hibody made the ground to lhake and the treto tremble with the force of his fall, by windmeans the knight and his iady efcaped his rag|Then Jack, leitim his foot on his neck, iaj}Thou lavage ..nd barbarous wretch, I am comto . xecutc upon you the juft reward of yojv liamy ; and with that, running him t. roupand throu h, the monfter lent forth a hideb ,groan, and yielded up his life While the no...'knight anti vSftuous iady were joyful (p.'Gators ,,( ‘5 )This bting done, the courteous knight and h*S61 for tac'y returned him hearty "hanks for tlu-irdeliverarce, ar.d invited him home to reireihhimfdf after the dreadful encounter, and receive1 feme ample reward for his good fervice No#quodi Jack, I cannot be at eafe till I find outi the den which was this monlbr’s habita'lon.f he Knight hearing tins, waxe right.iorrowful,land replied, Noble flranger, It is too much to*’ run a iecond rifle ; for this noted mender livedin a den under yon mountain, with a hi other" i of his, more fierce and fiery than himfelf; and' therefore if you fhouid go thither, and perilh in’ the attempt it would be the heart-breaking ofboth me and iny lady ; let me pe rfuade you togo with us, and defift from any farther purfuit.r Nay, quoth Jack, if there be another; nay, if‘ there were twenty, I would fhed the laft dropcf my blood in my body, before one of themfhall efcape my fury ; and when I have fimlhedthis rafk I wit! come and pay my refpe^b? to you.r bo, taking dirtftior.s to their habitation, hemounted his hone, leaving.them to return home,■ went in purfuit of the deceafed Giant’s brotuer.: ''! | Hi ’ll' Jack Jlew the ether Giant, and fent both theirheads to King Arthur.JACK had not rode a miie and a half, beforehe came in ugh of the cave's mouth, near to heentrance of vhi h he beheld the other Giant,i‘fitting upon a huge clock of timber, with a knot¬ted iron dub lying bv his fide, waiting, as heluppoled, for his brother’s return with his cruel• ’ Jns g°gle c’fes appeared like terribie flames‘tf fire, his coumenance grim £fid ugly, ai d hischeeks{ *6 )cheeks appeared like a conple of large fat flitches ;of bacon ; tb.e briftles of his head leaned to rerfeiitble rods of iron wire ; his locks hang downupon k s broad fhoulders, Ifxe curled fnakes, orbilling adders.jack alighted from his horfe, and put him intoa thicker, then w ith his coat of darknefs he camefomewhat near to behold his figure, dhd laid lofily,Oh! are\ou there? It will not be Idfts^e’er Itake you bv the beard. The Giant all thi?%-iinecould not fee him, by reafon of his invifiblc coat,fo coming up dole to him, Jack fetching a blowat his head with his Iword of Iharpneis, and ini!-fiog fomewhat of his aim, tut off the Giant’s nofe,vvhofe noftrils were wider than a pair of jack-boots : the pain wras terrike, and putting hishand to his face, and not finding hjs nefe, heroar’d louder than claps of thunder: and thoughhe turn’d up his large eyes, he could not lee fromwhence the blow cachd, which had done him thatgreat difafter ; nevathelels he took up xiis hoo-knotted club, and began to lay about him, kkeone Hark mad : Nay, quoth Jack, if you be lorthat Iport, then will I difpmh you quickly, forfear of an accidental blow failing out. I hen asthe Giant rofe from his b ock, J ack runs his Iwordup to the hiit in the Gixnto fundament, wherehe left it ft.eking for a while, and iioou laughingto lee the Giant caper and dance, trying out, Irefhould die with the gripping oi his guts 1 busdid thd Giant continue ravngfor an horn ormore, and at length fell down dead, wkofe dread¬ful fall had hike to l.ave trufh^d poor j ck, hadhe not been nimble to avoiu theian.e.i his being dont, Jack cut off both the Giantsheads, and lent them to King xlnhux by a wag¬goner.( 17 )goner, whom he hired for the fame purpafe jtogether with an account of his profperous fuc-ce.'s in all his undertakings.JicPiv Jacl. parched their cavty and dehvet'td manyme): cut of captivity.JACK having thus difpatched tkefe two mor-Eiers, refoived with himfelf to enter the cave inearch of thefe Giants treafure : he paifih 1 alonghrough many. turnings and windings which ledli n at length to a room paved wi ll fr^e hone,at the upper entl of which was a bei i g caldron,^hen on the right hand Hood a large tabie, wherehe fuppofeti, the Giants uf'd to dine, then hecame to an iron grate, where was a window, fe-ijufed with bars of iron,through which he looked,Jind there beheld a vr.f} many milerable captives ;who feeing Jack at a dtftance, cried out with a■ Joud voice, Alas! young min, art hou come to’ 3e one amongH us in this mifcnb'.e den ? y,quoth j;c!:, but -1 hope I ihall not tarry longhe’oe : ’>ut pray tell ore what is the m aniog oftour captivity ? Why, laid one, young man,fir tell you, we are perfons that have been taken9y the Giants that keep this cave,' and here vvere kept till fuch time as they haves occalion for| particular feaft, and then the fatteft amongH:is is flaughttred, and prepared for their dtvour-ng jaws • it is not long fin e they took three»f us for the 1’amo purpofe . nay many are thelimes they have dined on c,ordered men. Say• :op fo 1 quoth Jack : Well 1 have given themloth fiich a dirmr, that it will be long enough' re they’ll have occafioo for any more. The• liferable captives were amazed at his words :Y on|*( I* 'IYcu may belisve me, qnot!i Jack, for T h?v* fiiinthem both with the point ot v i'-ord ; ana isfor their monftrous heads, l lent therr. i a wag¬gon to the court of King Arthur, as rop :esof my unparallerd viftory. And for a telii aonyof the truth of what he had faid, he unlocked ’ 'the iron-gate, and fet the miferable captives at 1liberty, who all rejoiced like condemned male-ftfactors at th'* light of a reprieve. Then leading1them altogether to the aforefaid room, he placed'them round the table, and fet before them two 1quarters of beef as alfo bread and wine, io that ithe fe;.fted them very plentifully Supper being;ended, they feaached the Giant's coffers, wherefinding a vaft {tore of gold and fiiver, Jack divid- •ed it equally ainongff them. They ail returned'him hearty thanks for their miraculous deliver-ftance, and departed to their refpeffive places ofabode, and Jack to the knight’s hcu-fe, whom hehad formerly delivered from the Giant.How Jock came to the Knight's hcufe, and hiSnoble entertainment there.It was about fun riling when Jack mountedhis horfe to proceed on iris journey, and by t sethelp of his directions, lie came to the Knights!houfe fome time before noon, where he was re-j-ceived with all demcnftrations of j y by 111“!;Knight and his Lady, who, in refpv.Ct to Jacketprepared a fcalt, which lafted many' days ■, andby way of gratitude, prefented him with a Ringof gold, on which wras engraven b.’ curi u artthe p Chne of the Giant dragging a diltr fleeKnight and his fair Lady by the hair of the head nsvith this Motto,W'iWe ?re in fad diftrefs you fes,Under a Giznt’* 6erce coiuaisni;But sain'd our lives and libertyBy valiant Jack’s viftorious hand.Now amongft the vaft aflembly there prefentjlere five aged Gentlemen, who were fathers toi ame of thofe miferable captives, which Jack hadtely let at iibst ty who underftapding thatK was the perl'on that performed thole greatloaders, they immediately paid their venerable‘Ipefts : Alter which their mirth increafed, andic fmihng bowls went freely round to the profi-rrous fuccefs cf the victorious conqueror.—lit in the mid ft of all’ their mirth, a nufiengerlyived with the difmal tidings of the approachone Thu’ulei dale, a huge Giant with two heads :ho having heard of the death of his kinfnv n,it fore-rttentioned Giants, was come in fearcUiter Jack, to be revtnned of him tor their moltjiferable dowrfal, and was within a mile of thebight’s feat, the country people flying beforeiin, from their houfes and habit tions like chaltfore the wind When they had related this,ick, not a whit daunted, f id, let him come, 1 amj Spared with a tool to pi k hH tooth, and you■ mtlemen and ladies, wa k forth in’o the garden,id veu fiiall be the j .'yful Ip dfators of this, nnitroos Giant’s death and deftruffi n. Ib?ich they afl Confented, every one witi ing hioiod fortune in that dangerous entes prize.Hole yack overthrew the Giant.The fituation of the Kmght’s heufe was asSows : It was placed in the mi Jtt of a fmadnd, encompafTcd round with a vail moat,thirtyf ) ithirty'feet deep, an ' twenty wide, over'which lay a draw-bridge Wherer pon Jack em¬ployed two men to ctrr it on bch /ides, almoftito the middle ; and *hen dieffing hinnfelf in hiscoat of darknefs, Hk""* ife putting cn his fhoesi'of fwiftnefs, he man h^s forth agninft the Giant,i-with h>s fworJ cf ffiarpn^fs ready drawn , yetj iwhen he cadne clofe up to him, five Giart c'-uld;not fee Jack by reafoo of his invifible coat whichhe had on ; yet, neverthelefs, he was lenfibie <>S:tfome approaching danger, width made him crjout in thefe words,Fe, Fi, Fo, Funt,I fmell the blood of an Enolifhman ;Be he living, or he r.e dead,rit grind his boors to mix m* breadSays ‘h u fo, quoth Jack ? ! hen thou art a mon trous miller indeed But how, if 1 fhou!dJe;vj ithee as I did the two Giants of late, in my conicier.ce I would fpod your praflice for the future :At which time the Giant Ipolce with a voice aloud as thunder : Art tlsou that villain whichdeftroyed my two kinfmen ? I hen will I tea.'.,tkee with my teeth, iutk thy blood, and what imore, 1 will grind thy boms to pewder. Yolmuft catch me fijft, quoth Jack , and with thtflhe threw off his coat of dar^mfs that the Gianmight fee him clearly, and then run from himpas through fear- 1.he Giant, with a foaminmouth, and glaring eyes, followed after i ke bwalking cail'e, making the ground underbill)as it were to (hake at every irep. J clc lev! hisa dancejhree or four times ronmi the moat th ,belonged to the Knight’s h. u!e, that the genflmen and ladies mipht take a full view of thihuge moufler of na ure,- who followed Jack w» i-( 21 )111 his rn’ight, but could not overtake him, bf.talon of hiirihoes of fvviftnefs : At length Jack■un alongft the draw-bridge, and the Giant fol-liwing, with the weight of his body and thei readful fteps he took, it broke down, and hei ambled into the water, where he roll’d andi'allow’d like a whale. Jack handing at th$, de of the moat laugh’d at the Giant, and faid,>, ou told me you would grind my bones to pow-jbr, here you have Water enoiJgh pray where( ’ your mill ? The Giant formed, htarit»g himioff ar that rate; and though he plunged fromare to place in the mo t, yet he could not getit to be revenged on his adverfary. Jack atSnt’thgot a cart-rope, and caft it over the Giant’siro heads with a hup-knot, and by the help of*eam of hor!'ec, dragged him out again, with: 3aich he was near ftrangled ; and bifore he, buhl let him Itfofe, he cut oft' both his heads• 5th his fword of lharpnefs, in the full view of! the worthy affemhly of Knights, gentlemenj id la dits, who gave a joyful tbout when they>yv the Giant fftr y difpatched. Then before• : would either at or drink, he lent U efe heads|(b after the other to the court of King Arthur:l^hich being done, th n Jack, with the knightsid ladies, returned to their micth and paftime,ihich ialtfd for many days.■j ■civ Jack came fo-the old Hermit's hufe) and whathappened there.After feme time fpent in triumphant mirth.d pattime, Jack grew weary of riotous living ;wefore, taking leave cf the nob'e knights and, he let forward in fearch of new- adven¬tures.{ 22 )tures. Through many ".‘'oods and groves herpjlT-J' meeting with nothing remarkable, till at,length coming to the foot cf an high mountain, ilate at nigh', he knocked at the door oh a lone-1fi-me houfe, at which an ancient man, with an ihta.' is white as fnow, aro'e anti let him in —•Father, faid Jack, have yon any entertainment ,>tfor a benighted traveller, that has lolh his way :Yes; laid the man, if v-ou will accept of feth a cmcomtnodation as my poor cottage wull afford ycnjtvfltaii be welcom . J<i'k returned him thanks f ihis civtii'y ; and flown they fat together, W'henthe old man began to dhcourfe to him as followshon. laid he 1 am ieniible thou art the greatconqueror f Giants, and it is in thy power tc'free this place of the country from an intollf rabhburden which we groan under ; for behold, nmfon, on the top of this high mountain there is ar linch?nted ca;,:e kept by a huge mon'lrous Giar.trnan eo Gilipanti s, who, by the help of an ole ■conjuror, betrays many knights and 'ladies iatejs;this ftrong call le, where, by made art, they ar»ttransformed into fundry fuapes and forms : t5ut|:,above all, 1 lament the misfortune of a Duke’j-daughter, whom they fetch’d from her fither’'-gardea by art, carrying her through the air ita mou ning chariot, drawn, as it were, by t w.>fiery dragons ; an < being fee«red within the wall®f the cattle, ihe was immeuiately transfo. me(tcinto the r al fhape of a white Hind ; tho’ man;worthy knights have endeavoured to break thenchantment, for her deliverance, yet none uthem could aci rrnplifh this great work by reafo:of two dreadful Griffins,. who were fixed by maSic art at the entrance of the ciltle-gare, wlyeffroy any as loon as they fee them. Bet yoy.IT) f( "3 )7 fon, being furnifhed with an inv'fible coat,Uy pals by them undifcovered ; an ; upon thei.azen gates of the caitle you will find'en. raven:■ large charadters, by what means in- ban?-: int may be broken- iThis old man having ende his rifcourfe J»c!r.•sjye him his hand, with a faitbf.;! .prno-ife . thatiithe morning he would venture h-.s l.f; to h e; fc•• p ihchantment, and f ee the Ln.y and the rni-i able partners in her calamity.i i'll' J-nk got into the Cij!!e, broke the In chant meat ^anil fct the Ladies free.jJACK and the o'd Hermit having r r efhed• iptnfelves wi;h a fmall morl 1 of meat, then laidi*.n down to rdf; and in the morning J ckr fe, and pat on his inviiible coat his c p t,f•{bwledge, and Ihoes of fwiftnefs, and let out; the dangerous enterprize.' M o-v when he had afeended to the top of thevsjtmtain, he discovered the two fiery Griffins,i pafT d on between them without fear, f r; ;y could not fee him, by reafqpt of his invifibie,,t. When he was got beyond th-m, he ob-tited a gate with a golden trumpet hanging inuh.dn of fine filver; under which Circle linesre engraven :feVhoever (hall this trumpet blow,i^hall loon the Giant overthrow,(And bre.)k the black inchantment ftra:g]it,aio all lhall be in happy ftatc.r Jack had no fooner read this infeription,lin he blew the trumpet; at which the founda-■! ‘ of the caftle trembleu, and the Giant andajuror were put into horrid confufion, bitingtheir( 24 )their thumbs, and tearing their hair, knowiitheir wfckcd reign was at an end : Jack ttandinat the Giant’s elbow, as he was looping to talup his dub, he at one blow, with his fwordftvarpnefs, cut off his head. ! he Conjuror feeirthis, immediately mounted into the air, and wcarried away in a whirlwindThus "as the whole inchnntment broke, atevery knight and lady, who had been tram forminto birds and beafts, returned to their projifhapes. Vhe Criftle, which teemed to be of ve,ftrength and iargenefs, vanished like a cloudfmoke ; whereupon an univerfal joy appear*among the releafed knights and ladies ih*the head of Gal'gantus was like wife convey*to the court of King Arthur, as a prefent to bM a jelly The next day, after having ref. eth'the knights and ladies at the old Hermit’s h?Jnation, he fet oul with them for the courtKing Atthur, as trophies of his victories.Having arrived there, and related to his 3V1)jefty h's many fierce encounters ; as a retvanof h's goc / fervice, the King prevailed with taforefaid Duke fo give his daughter in marriaito ho; eft Jack, protefiing there was no mamworthy cf her : bo married they were, and 1a further reward cf his valour, the king rahim a noble habitation, with a plentiful eftawhere he and his lady lived the remainderibeir days in peace.F I N I S>