A NACCOUNTOF THE PARTICULARSOLILOQUIESANDCOVENANT ENGAGEMENTS.OF Mrs. JANET HA MI LON, the deceas'dlady of ALF.XANDER GORDON of Earljlon ; uponthefeveral dyets, and at thefeveral places, under-writ¬ten ; which were found in her cabinet among her pa¬pers, after her death at Earlfton, Feb. 26. 1696. Beingall written and fubferibed with her own hand, andthought fit to be difeovered for the encouragement ofothers to the like duty.\G L A S G 0 IV:PrinKd in th^SC?fej^§.c:’ Lliu(^ OF SCOTIAN 1i Thefir ft dated Blackness cafile, December 168 7,As follows.OLord I defire to bid's thy name for thy former lov¬ing kindnefs unto me, in the day of my ftrait, mhelping and Handing by me, when overcharg’d with af-1 flidion, and dderted of friends : What was I and my fa¬thers houle? A poor infufficient creature, taken up withnothing but vanities of all forts ? O what moved fo holy| a God, ever to condefcend to look upon me ; and pafs byfo many much more worthy than poor undcferving me ?I Cl praifes be unto thee! O molt high! O that my tongue!' were employ’d thro’ time in magnifying theholy name1 - of fo merciful a God, may not I fay, his mercies are overall his other works to me, may not I (it down and admireof free love: Fird, In inclining my heart to love him andI his people, and in calling my lot amongll the godly, and1 in bellowing a godly and kind husband upon me, (whenleft deliitute without father or mother) and that he did focare for me as not to fuffer me to enjoy the defires of my1 heart, but was at pains to hedge in my way with thorns,1 pnd his infinite love fuffered me not to fit at my eafe: en-' }°ying my pleafures in the day of Zions calamity. And1 Prepared the way by fmaller tryals for greater. Thoudidin thy infinite wifdom net at firft call me into the hottedflames of the furnace, leal! I fliould not have been able tohand, butin fright fainted and turned back; but 0 praife!praife be to him that inhabiteseternity, thatcondefcendedfo far to me a worm, as fweetly to train me up, allu¬ring me and (peaking comfortably to me at my firit en¬try into the wilderne's. Thou caufed thy word to be to1 my foul as the honey, and the honey comb. Thou made1 me lit under thy fiiadow with grear delight, and thy fruit- was fweet unto my fade, fo that many a time which to11 onlookers was fad, was fweet tame, the Lord did fo lup-f! Por*. and fealted me in his banqueting houfe, that I w/smac to rejoice in the midlt of my tribulations. LikewileU thou did not fnffer me to go on with thefewho wercindif-f! ferent in Chiills matters, but with thy rod thou did!! railef fuch a zeal and love on my fpirit, and fo filled my mouthJl with arguments, that I could not fee any thing like defec-lion from, or wrong done to any of thy truths, without re-1 tenting, tellifyingand contending againll it. thou fo fir1 changed my heart which was proud and haughty, muchdildain-[ 4 ]difcJaining the converfe of tlie poor, but thou helped meto be denied to grearfolk, and to the reproach I iufTcredon that head ; making the company of the poor that weregodly in the land dear unto me, and I hope they lliall belo while they keep in God’s way, he having palled by thegreat ones and honoured the poor, boldly to teltify for1 <ni, and thefe whom he honours, 1 delire (thro’ grace)to honour. Praile be to thee whole care of me was Inch,that it was minillers who were valiant fot Chriit, that helent in my way, fuch as did not Hatter me in my lin, butfaithfully and freely did hold out in the gofpel what waslin and duty, and fealed the fame with their blood : Howdid thou encourage me with many I weet anfwers ofpraj er «to confirm me in thy love, thou did help me in the days of 1thy love to me, to make a full refignation of all that was |mine unto thee, that when I was put out of all, firipped ihare and deftitute, not knowing of fhelter to me and mypoor babes, how calmly and auietly did thou help me togo under it, io that I was made to fear that it was liupi-dity, and not fupporting grace ; and fuch was thy love,that, even in that thou would not let me to go without areproof; for there was a friend fuffered to wrong me ina bufinefs, and the Lord withdrew, and then I was as bul¬lock unacuftomed to the yoak; I could not get it born un¬til I mourned for my folly in thinking that nature coulddo any thing in me, without afEHing grace, then ne hel¬ped me to make a full relignation of new, of all that wasmine, and to look beyond all earthly portions unto thatnoble inheritance which thou haft purchafed with bloodandgavemeafullcontentednelsinallmy bufferings bothfrom friends and foes.And when thou didft (for the tryal of my faith andpatience) throw me in very hot Humes of affiidtion, ha¬ving all dilcouragements from the world, that a poorX , ng could be tryfted with, and that which was foreft tomfr, not having that meafure of the fenfe of thy prefenceas fometimes before. But Q that condefcendance, O! thatfatherly love that did not fuffer me to link in this Itorm,•which was lightly looked on by the molt part, few tofympathize with me, but many thinking it their duty toadd to my affliction. O prudes ! praifes be to thee, whoin that time helped me to lit filent, bearing thy indigna¬tion patiently, becatife I linned againlt thee; yet thy mer-c ies did not fail towards me, but thou did in this extremi¬tysC 5 1ty fecrctly fbpport me, and did by reffraining praeebound me in, not giving me liberty to leek finful deli¬verances. O Lord, continue in thy love in keeping mein thy way, that I may-have reafon to lev up my Eben-j eaer, and to lay, hitherto hath the Lord helped nje. Oi thou that has begun this good work, perfedt it, that 1i may prailethy holy name through time and all eternity.And now O Lord, out of the lenle of ail thefe thy lovingi kindneiles towards thy poor hand-maid, I delire in thy! Itrength to renew former engagements, and folemnly a-! new to enter in covenant with thee : O Lord, help me togo (incerely about it, and let thy prefence go along withi the duty : O Lord, I here dedre to enter folemnly in co¬venant with thee, taking thee for my Lord and mailer,and accepting thee on thy own terms, taking thee formy king, priell and prophet, and in my Ilation, through| thy grace, to Hand by truth, and cheerfully to take onthy yoak and follow thee: Lord, thou knows my weak-nefs, I delird to believe that thou will be a prelent help in| the day of need to me, acording to thy promile : And I5 in the faith of this do go on, I here give my hearty con-lent tp thy coming and taking polfellion in my foul, andto thy calling out of all there, that Hands in oppolitionto thee; come Lord Jefus, fubdue all my corruptions^and bring them under thy feet, that I may be thro’ theea conqueror over them. I delire here to take thee for myall, to be ruled and governed by thee, acquiescing towhatfover lhall be thy way of dealing with me; giveme thy lelf, and this (hall be all my defire. I delireto enter my protellation at the throne of GRACE,againlt all principalities and powers in me that Handout again!! thee, and fhall endeavour in thy Hrength,to war again# them, for they reign -as tyrants not ha¬ving conlent ; whatever I have been, I do here acceptI of the offer of peace through Chrill, and do make afure covenant with thee this day, never to be ranver-i fed, hoping thou wilt make all forthcoming unto me,both on thy part and mine. I defire here to "own all thecontravened truths that are founded on thy holy word,which word, I defire to be my rule, and to confefs theebefore men, that thou may confels me before the Fa¬ther: Lord give me it in that hour, if I lhall be broughtbefore great ones for thy names fake; I defire to ad¬here to all the articles of thy covenants, national andfoiemnrofemn league to wliicli I Hand engaged, only Idifownthe kings part of it, lie having unkinged himfelf by thebreach of covenants, and by making our land a land ofgraven images, that was fo (olemnly given up to God ; 1define in weaknefs, to adhere unto it, altho’ burnt by thehand of the hangman, and now buried by the hand ofthele that better things was expected of, O Lord 1 defireto clofe all by giving niyfelf up to thee, and all mine ;accept, Lord Jeflts Chriff, and iielp to perform, and ownme as thy covenanted child, protelting humbly,that fail-ing on my part (againft which 1 relolve, as thou knowelt)fhal! not make void this covenant, I having accepted ofthy offer, upon thy own terms, and will henceforth waitfor what is good, that when thou comeft I may rejoice inthee, crying, this is my God and 1 have waited for him,as witncls my hand at Blacknefs caftle December, 1687.Stic fubferibitur.J ANE T H A M EL TO ,V.The fecond dated at EarlAon, Jan. 1691.LORD, thou knoweff my former engagements, whichpalt betwixt my foul and thee, when 1 entered in co¬venant with thee (to my fouls great comfort) in the fweetealtle of Blacknefs, I giving myfelf up unto thee, premi-fihg to be for thee in my nation, adhering to thy' (acredfcriptures, and to our noble work of reformationCwhichwas then the head of my fufferings) and for which I hadlolt the favour of my relations, and Chriftian friends,whole untendernefs to me made me fit folitary, eatingthe bread of adverlity and drinking the water of afflielion,killed all the day long with fore and heavy reproaches,few or none to fimpathize with me but thyfelf, who 1'weet-nvd all my tryals, with the loul comforting confolationsof thy holy 1'pirit: Inch contentednels thou gave me inthy fweet crols, that 1 never knew what it was to weary;I. at that time engaged to endure whatever ingredientsthou Ihould put in my cup to drink, and to drink it chear-fully and f'ubmiffively, Inch was thy love to me, that thoubrought me from under the feet of that cruel enemy, wi-thput wronging truth, and has letten me lee that 1 havenothing to boaft of, it being nothing in me but meer freegr ace thas perfedfed itrength in my weaknefs. O ! that Ihad the tongue of the learned, that i might ihew forth thypraifes[ 7 3praifes; It was nrot I, but thou who magnified thy power,in carrying a poor weak thing thro’ fuch dt-pths, and /of¬fered great ones to itagger and fall in the way, thy wordwas made out in making ufe of the foolifh things of theworld to confound the wife, thou hall made thy infinitelove to carry thro’ a poor finite creature: How often haveI been made to Hand, and wonder and admire free love,knowing my own weaknels and the many infirmities I amlyable to by a body oflin and death ; Inch was thy love,that thou gave me fuch courage, that neither the flatter¬ing of triends, nor the threats ofenemies, could move meto do any thing to truths difadvantage, luch w.ts thy loveto me. O thy (weet crofs! Thy yoak was made ealy un¬to me, and thy burden light. O that any fhould Icar atthy lou! inllruifting rods !. How many lellbn’s of cln iilia-nity is to be learned under thy rod, and fb rmuh comfoi tand confolation to be found in quietly and calmly acojiii-elcing to his will; that 1 may lay, I flu,11 never have fuchcontentednels, were I to be inheritor of the whole v. orld,as I had under the fweet crols of Chrill. O prailes! prai-fes to him who made it fo. But with what a heavy heart,did I come out of that callle ot Blacknefs, the Lord didgive me fuch a light of the intricate dilpenfations, Aatthe church was to meet with by the coming over of thePrince of Orange that inllead of being compalt aboutwith fongsofdcliverancc, it wasattended with great hea-Vincis; I could take pleafurein nothing, but in mourn¬ing over the fad things that I law coming on the church :When others were rejoicing, I durlt not make mentionof my difeonfolate cafe. W/hen they fpake of prefermentto my family, it was a Iword to my heart; I cryed, andthe Lord heard me in that, and inltead of that, he gaveme alliirance of the lalvntion of my dear child William ;And gaveme full lubrmlfion tohis licknefs, which I couldnever win to before, accompanied wiih many Iweef melt¬ing days, which was to me an unexpreffible mercy. Ohthen ! what did I fee next ? The work of God betrayed,not by enemies, nor by that party only, that had fittehat their eafe, but by thefe minilters and people, thathad jeoparded their lives in the high places of thefields, taking chearfully the fpoilirg of their goods :Thele are they that have burLH ihe work of the Lord,fad-ned the hearts of their poor aftffied brethren, buried thecovenant,andtheworkofrelorniation,whichwastheglory[ 3 ]of our land. Seeing; all this with the home coming to myhoufe, which I never thought to have enjoyed, untilthrift had been reftored to his rights; for, O Lord, thouknowelt I defired not delivery,till it had come withZions.I fay, this caft me into a great grief; Lord thou knoweftmy burthen, it is not hid from thee, and this isall my com¬fort, Othedepths, theintricatedifpenfations, I have beentryltsd with, fince I came out of that forefaid caftle, if itwere not that my cafe and Zions is fomewhat levelled a-Jike, furely I fhould fink beneath the dream; but the cupwhich my father hath given me, (hall I not drink it : Lordhelp me, that I weary not before it be at an end : Wouldit not affedt any foul, that ever had any love to Chrifi, tofee the fad fruit of a perfonal delivery, every one runningout of the furnace, after the world, and alter their ownrights and privileges,withoutbeingconcerned to enquirehow Chrilt is invelted in hisrights and prerogatives. Oh!is this all the gratitude we have fhown him for all his lo¬ving kindnefs to us in the wildernels ? For his feeding,cloathing, and preferving in defpite of enemies. Is thisall we have rendered to him, to run as fo many fiieep outof a fold, every one to what he could win at, without e-ver looking and confidering what was their duty to do infuch a time for Chrift and his caufe. O wrath is gone outagainfl us! plague upon plague is the portion alotted forthe profeffors of this generation. O Lord, I fear I andmany others have been building upon a fiindy foundation !Suffering more out of an expectation of a temporal deli¬very, than out of love to Chrift and his caufe ! The eventof the fufferipgs of Scotland (peaks out the truth of this,the fight whereof, has made my heart to tremble. There¬fore, O Lord ! I defire that thou would difeover the deceitof my heart in this, with a true fenfe of it upon my fpirit,that I may mourn in fecret places for it, and give me thyaflifting grace, and helping hand in this reeling, faintingand failing time, that I may be helped in finglenefs anduprightnef's of heart, and in fincerity without hypocrifyor guile, to lay that foundation Hone right, which is fefusChrift! O come and give thy confent to this covenantand bargain this day ! Let thy preience fhew thy fa-tisfaCfion in it, that I may win to the faith, that not onlyI have covenanted with thee, but that thou has condefcen-ded in thy infinite love to covenant with me,and has madsit fure in every thing. Now Lord, I defire to enter in co¬venantC 9 ]venant with thee this day, in oppofition to all the corrup¬tions of a body of (in, that I am mafiered with : I defire inthy fight to proteft againU all things in me or my family,that is not like thee, and this day to invite thee back tomy hou(e on any terms, and do not break us with thylong ablence. Come Lord Jefusand take up thy dwellingamong!! us; we are a heartlcfs company without thee,come to the heads, and tell us what is out duty, and putwork in our hands, art thou palling by us as one thathas no more work ado for us. O Lord 1 cannot think u-pon this, let not our iniquities put a (top in thy way, comeover the mountains of oppofitions, and put us to duty,and keep us at duty, and dwell with us. 1 invite thee tocome to my poor babes, let them be ofthefe little childrenthat thou fuffers to come unto thee; falvation to him thatappears to be near his clofe, let him have mercy in endthro’ a compleat mediator Chrilt, let thy fympathy andfree love be extended towards him, he being one of thylufferers, wanting the adminillration of thy iacrament ofbaptifm, becaufe of the unfaithfulnefs of minilters. Lord,thou knows it was not in contemptofthy holy ordinance,that it was wanting, but we could not in our Itation (howany more eminent way our diflike to the injuries done tothee, O Lord, by unfaithful miniders. All their treach¬ery is v'ell known to thee. Lord break the fnares and letthy poor flock e(cape, and haflen the day when my kids(hall feed befide the (hepherds tents. I invite thee thisday to every (bul within my family, let the work of gracebe among!! them all, every one encouraging another inthe way of duty, that wre may be a little fandluary (or. theeto dwell itj. I invite thee O Lord, this day to return topoor covenanted Scotland, altho’ (he has broken cove¬nant with thee, yet thou mud not give up with her. Re¬member thy former loving kindnefs to her, and for thy.1 own names lake return, return, and deliver; are not ene¬mies rejoycing that they have gotten of the (bns anddaughters of Zion to help them to lay on the grave done; to hold down the work .Are not enemies crying, where> is the covenanted God of Scotland, and laying if thisj work had been of God, it would have dood ; (o that all: the blood of thy people, and the caule of God, for which1 they fuftered, is now buried with the mockery of feme,< and joy of others; but thou who is the lion of the tribe ori Judah,up thyfeif,and let it be know n to all nations,thatthat the covenanted Cod of Scotland lives and reigns. Othat the relurrefHon of thy buried work were more glori¬ous than ever, let Zions walls be built again, (b that (liemay be beautiful as Tirzah, comely as Jerufalem, fair asthe moon, clear as the fun, and terrible as an army withbanners; lb that her enemies may tremble, and her chil¬dren who for along time have been mourning over herru-bilh, may rejoice in her comely order, and be compalt a-bout with fongs. I invite thee to the poor betrayed, fcat-tered focieties in Scotland, that thou art now jultly con¬tending with; the marks of thy dilpleafure are evidentlyto be leen in every meeting, an abfent God in every pieceof duty, love and tenderness much gone, heart-burnings,and contendings, and luke-warmnefs bred, nothing likea praflical work among the moll part, ormaking anypro-grefs in the way of chriltianity. Is not all this come uponus, becaule our God is not among!! us. O that thou Lordwould return and make known for what thou art con¬tending, and remove their fpiritual plagues, and let thyfpirit be poured out among the poor finners in Zion, andlet them again behold the kings face in peace. I delire toinvite thee to every afflidted and wearied foul, that is toll,and like to faint on the dark mountains, paffmg thro’dark Heps and none to Ipeak comfortably unto them, butevery one adding to their grief. Lord appear thou fortheir help, and Ihorten thele days for the clefts fake, let!they faint under the burden, and put forth their hands toiniquity. I defire this day to covenant with thee in oppo-fition to all the power civil and eccleliallic that has eatenout the life of chriltianity, and Hands in oppolstion totbee and thy precious truths, and ingage never to ownthem till they be for thee; this I ingage in the Hrcngth otthe Lord. I adhere to all the truths of the old and newteibnients, and to all the teltimonies given by thy peoplefor the carrying on thy work. I dchreto adhere to_ thenow buried covenants,and to all the work of reformation,which is founded upon thy word. Lord, help a poorweak infulHcient creature to hold by this vow, and pay¬ing vows unto thee. 1 do this day give up my dear hul-hand and children unto thee, that thou may make themfor thee, and employ them in thy lervice be the hazardwhat it will. . O Lord take them off my hand, that theymay be arked in thy love; in that day when thou goesthorow the land, with the devouring fword, let their, getL[ 11 ] \their fouls for a prey, and he found within the bonds ofthe everlalting covenant. This is all my defire, grace inexercife be their portion. I do this day folemnly enterin covenant with thee, holding up my hands, vowing tobe thine, giving my lelf up unto thee, doling with theeon thy own terms, begging thee to come and put to thyleal to this great work : And I ddire that this covenantmay be as a Haft to hold me up from ftaggering on thei dark mountains. Lord help me to have a pradice in fin-cerity, like one in covenant with thee O Lord ! I do takethe ffoncsin the wall, and the timber of the houfe to wit-nelles that I have given up my felf, and all mine untothee, O Lord this day ; As witnefs my hand at Earlflon’’January, 1691. Sic filfcribitur.J ANET H AMILTO N,The third dated at Airds, Jtrne 1695.I Out of the lenfe of my own weaknefs, and the greatfalling away of this generation, do delire to renew mycovenant engagements. The Lord has been kind untome, he has not been a barren wildernels, nor a land ofdrought; in the day ot famine, he has fed me in thefgrecnpallurcs. O for grace to improve all thy loving kindnefstowards me, and accept my weak performances, which Iddire to do only in thy ftrength. O help me to covenantright with thee, and to keep covenant vows to thee. I doagain give up all that I have unto thee, I give up my dearlympathizing husband to thee, put work in his hand,thatmay be for thy glory, his louls comfort, and truths ad¬vantage, that we may rejoice in thee, in the way of thylalvation. My dear brother, I likewile give him up untothee,his cafe is known unto thee,thou haft hitherto helpedhim, and 1 delire to believe thou will continue thy love.O Lord, thou haft given me a little flock, dear and preci¬ous Chrift, as thou haft given them unto me, I do freely,and fokmnly give them back unto thee, and defire thatthou may dilpofe of them at thy pleafure, only let grace1 be given to them, that they may be employed in their1 Hattons for thy glory, and may be keeped free of the abo¬minations of the time. Do with them, as to the world,as thou thinks fit, only convey gracedown to their polte-rity, let them be pleaders for thee, as I have pleaded forthem at the throne of grace This is all my defire., andwould be my comfort to lee. O Lord, come this day, andfmileC 12 , ].fmijeuppnmy poor gift, and accept of them; I folemnlyitand to all my former engagements,' and make a folemnrelignation of myfelf unto thee, and defire to clofe withthee on thy own terms, O let to thy leal to it, and conde-feend in thy love, to let it be regiltrate in heaven, thatwhatever may be my cafe or tryals, I may have a cove¬nanted God to run to; Lord keepme in thy way, and helpme to Hand by truth. I delire this day to protdl againltall the incroachments that are made on thy rights andchurch privileges. And I ddire to protelt this day before !thy throne, again!! the (oul murdering courles that mini- !Ucrs and "people are taking. And I ddire to protelt a-gainlfUiat horrid abomination of dehling the Lord’s ta¬ble, after Inch an ignominious manner. Oh poor Scot¬land! What (hall be thy end ? Wrath, from on high, 1]for your facrilegious abominations: I ddirc this day to iadhere to all thy covenanted truths founded upon thy |holy word; 1 delire to mourn over any thing that is in Ime or mine, that is offenlivc in thy fight ? O Lord, let !us be wholly for thee, ading for thee with a perfed heart; jI defire no longer to have a poderity than they are for ithee. O Father, Son and Holy Gholt, come and be wit- |nel's to this bargain, and clofe with me that defires to Jclofe with thee and to be thy covenanted child. Here I 1take the trees of the wood, and all the works of creationabout me, to witnefs that I have given all mine unto thee, |not in my (trength, but in thine O Lord Jehovah, towhom I defire this day to give everlalting prailes, that |thou halt not fullered my table to be empty, whillt othersare defiling thine. O praile! praile forever be to thee. Aswitnefs my hand at Airds, fune i6<k. Sic fubferibiturJANET HAMILTON.“ If any fufped this as connterfit, or vitiat, they maygo to her husband, who can fhew them the principal, all |written and fubferibed with her own hand.”TIN! S.