THE1PRINCE CHARGES ^EDWARD STUART,?mCOMMONLY CALLED THEPRETENDER.THE LIFE OFPRINCE CHARLES STUARTCOMMONLY CALLED THEPRETENDER.Prince Charles Stuart, commonly calledlie Pretender, was born at Rome, on the 20th.f December, 1720. When he had attained thege of seven years he was placed under the tui-ion of an Irish Gentleman, of the name of Sher-dan, a R,oman Catholic. And as he advancedyears he not only displayed an unusual vivacityof spirit, but also manifested a great genius form¬ed for Millitary tactics. When about the age offourteen, he was present at the Siege of Gieta,where he behaved so well, though only a youth,as fully justified the high opinion held of his cour-; age and intrepidity.This interesting young Prince, after signaliz-iing himself at many' engagements, by the warwhich broke out on the Continent, upon theelection of a new Emperor, in the room of Charles4\the VI. In some of which battles he was one ofthe foremost in charging the enemy, and the lastwho left the field. He returned to Rome.About the year 1744. Prince Charles havingsworn allegiance to the Pope; was invited bythe French Monarch to Paris, where he wasgreatly carressed by the French Ministry, andtold of the vast preparations making in France toassist him to recover the British Crown.^The Regency of England, for the King wasthen at Hanover, being informed that Charleswas about to make a descent in Scotland, issueda proclamation, promising a reward of 30,0001.to any person who should seize and secure the el¬dest son of the. Pretender, in case he should landor attempt to land in any of his Majesty’s domin¬ions. ■ Charles also issued a proclamation of thelike nature, offering the same reward, to seize andsecure King George, whom he called an usurper.As soon as Charles landed, he went to thehouse of Mr. M4 Donald, of Kinloch Moidart,from wThich he wrote to the adjacent clans, to ac¬quaint them of his arrival.’ Upon this Cameron ofLochiel went to w’ait upon him, but he refused toarm his clan, until Charles could produce in writ¬ing, the resolution of the King of France, to assistand support him with a proper number of forces.Being satisfied on this point, he summoned hisj clan, and erected Charles’ standard 'with thisi motto, “Tandem Triumphans:” Triumphingl at last.When the news of Charles’ arrival was spreadk abroad, the chiefs who had been previously in-I (formed of it, and who concurred in his scheme,lijioon repaired to his standard. When he had gott sufficent number to make the appearance of anrmy, he marched with them to within a mile ofort-William, and there encamped. Having en-reased his forces to the number of about twothousand, he marched forward to a hill, about|lix miles distant from Fort Augustus, and beingpformed that General Cope was coining to at-jack him, he waited with a resolution of hazard-an engagement; but the General, eitherdistrusting his own strength, or for some other2ason, proceeded to Aberdeen, where he em-- iarked his army on board some ships, whichansported it to Dunbar, where he landed.On the 30th of August Charles arrived atilair, the residence of the Duke of Athol, uponajk'hich that nobleman and several gentlemen ofrj!he county of Fife retired to Edinburgh. After! k lis he proceeded to Perth, Dumblain, and Stir¬ling, and on the IGth of September encampedrildth his army at Gray’s Mill, about two milesKom Edinburgh, where some of the magistrates6Waited on him to treat concerning a capitulation.In the mean time one of the gates being openedfor the admission of a coach, Cameron of Loch-iel rushed into the place with a party of his men,and secured it without opposition. Next morn*ing the whole army entered, Charles took posses*sion of the royal palace of Holyrood House, andhaving caused his father to be proclaimed at themarket cross, ordered a manifesto to be read, inwhich the Chevalier declared his son Regent ot ^his dominons, and promised to redress all thegrievances of Scotland.During these transactions, Sir John Cope be¬gan his march towards Edinburgh, to give therebel army battle, and on the 20th of the monthencamped in the neighbourhood of Preston Pans jwith all his troops, amounting to nearly threethousand men. Early next morning he was at¬tacked by Charles, at the head of about the same ,number of Highlanders, who charged sword inhand, with such impetuosity, that in less thanten minutes the King’s troops were broken andtotally routed. The dragoons fled in the utmostconfusion, and the General Officers, after someunsuccessful efforts to rally their men, retreatedtowards Coldstream on the Tweed. Never wasa victory perhaps obtained at a smaller expenee:only fifty of the rebels lost their lives, while fiver'i hundred of the opposite party were killed on the|! ] spot, and among these the brave colonel Gardinerl lwho fell greatly lamented.Charles’s followers encreasing every day, andH several of the highland chiefs, encouraged by hisy success, beginning to exert themselves in hi®( I cause, he resolved to make an irruption into| England, which he did on the 6th. of November,III having by that time collected an army of about five! thousand man. Carlisle was the first place heinvested,- which surrendered in less than threedays, and here his father was proclaimed King ofGreat Britain, and himself Regent, by the Ma¬gistrates in all their formalities. General Wadebeing informed of his progress across the countryas far as Hexam, but receiving intelligence therethat Carlisle was reduced, he returned to his for¬mer station. Orders were, issued for asemblinganother army in Staffordshire, under the commandof Sir John Ligonier; but Charles notwithstand¬ing this opposition, determined to proceed. Leav¬ing therefore a small garison in Carlisle, he ad-! vanned to Penrith, marching on foot in the high¬land dress, and continued his route th-ough Lan¬caster and Preston, to Manchester, where, on the29th of the month, he established his head quar -ters, and wes joined by about 20^ Englishmen,who were formed into a regiment, under colonel/8Townly. His supposea intention was to pursuehis way through Chester to Wales, where hehoped to find a great number of adherents; butall the bridges on the river Mersey being brokendown, he choose the road to Stockport, and ford¬ed the river at the head of his division, thoughthe water rose to his middle. Taking Maccles¬field and Congleton in his way, on the 4th ofDeceriiber he entered the town of Derby, wherehis father was proclaimed with great solemnity.He had now advanced to within one hundredmiles of the capital, which was filled with conster¬nation, and had he proceeded might have madehimself master of it, and been joined by a consid¬erable number of his friends, who impatientlywaited for his approach.Though success had hitherto attended him,Charles however found himself miserably dis¬appointed in his expectations. He wTas now in■•.he heart of England, and, except a few that join¬ed him at Manchester, not a soul appeared in hisbehalf. The Welch took no step to excite an in¬surrection in his favour; the French made no at¬tempt towards an invasion; the highland chiefsbegan to murmur and he saw himself with a hand¬ful of men hemmed in between two considerablearmies, in the middle of winter, and in a countrydisaffected to his cause. He could scarcely hope9i to proceed to the metropolis without hazardinga battle, and a defeat would have been attendedi with inevitable ruin, both to himself and his| followers. Besides this, he had received in-I formation, that his friends and officers had assem-i bled a body of forces in the northern parts, su-: perior in number to those by whom he was at-|tended.Having called a council at Derby, and pro-i posed to advance towards London, this plan wasvery strongly supported by Lord Nairn; but af-tjj ter violent disputes, the majority determined thatJ] they should return to Scotland with all possible| expedition. , They abandoned Derby, therefore,c: on the 6th of December, early in the morning,I and retreated the same way by which they hadt advanced. . On the 9th, their advanced guardreached Manchester, and entering Preston on the1 12th. they continued their march northwards.| The Duke of Cumberland, who was encamped: at Meriden, when informed of their return, de-) tached some horse and dragoons in pursuit of themwhile General Wade began his march from Ferry¬bridge into Lancashire, with a view of intercept-tj ing them in their way ; but at Wakefield he un-|j derstood they had already reached Wigan; he| therefore repaired to his old post at Newcastle,l after detaching General Oglethorpe, with his10horse and dragoons, to join those that had beensent off from the Duke’s army. They pursuedwith much alacrity, and having overtaken the rearof the rebel army, had a few skirmishes in Lanca¬shire. Though the millitia of Cumberland andWestmoreland were raised and armed, by theDuke’s order, to harass them in their march, andthough the bridges were broken down, the roadsdamaged, and the beacons lighted to alarm thecountry, they retreated very regularly with theirsmall train of Artillery. On the 19th of themonth the highland army reached Carlisle, wherethe majority of the English in it were left at theirown desire, after which Charles reinforced the ga-rison of the place, and crossed the rivers Edenand Solway into Scotland ; having thus accom¬plished one of the most surprising retreats, per¬haps ever performed They comitted no violencenor outrage, and they were effectually restrainedfrom the exercise of rapine. Though the weather was excessively cold, and though they musthave been exposed to much hunger and fatiguejthey left no sick, and lost only a few stragglers,but retired in good order, carrying off their can¬non in the face of the enemy. The Duke ofCumberland invested Carlisle with his whole ar¬my, on the 21st day of December; and on the30th, the whole garrison surrendered by a kind11tai capitulation with the Duke of Richmond.The prisoners, amounting to about four hundred,-were confined in different gaols in England, andthe Duke returned to London.Charles proceeded by the way of Dumfries toGlasgow, from which last city he exacted severecontributions, on account of its attachment togovernment. Having continued several days atGlasgow, he advanced towards Stirling, andi|was joined by some forces which had been as-embledin his absence by Lords Lewis Gordon,nd John Drummond, brothers to the Dukes ofIGordon and Perth. This last nobleman had ar¬rived from France in November, with a smallreinforcement of French and Irish, and a com-tmission as General of these auxiliaries. He fix-led his head quarters at Perth, where he was re¬inforced by the Earl of Cromartie, and otherclans, to the number of two thousand, and hewas supplied with a small train of artillery. Hav-ng found means to surprise a sloop of war atMontrose, they fortified that harbour with theguns, and they had received a considerable sumof money from Spain. They likewise took pos-ssion of Dundee, Dumbhune, Down castle, andd Fife under contribution. The Earl of Lou-, who remained at Inverness, with about two-usand Highlanders, in the service of his Ma-12jesty, conveyed provisions to Fort Augustus andFort William, and secured the person of LordLovat; but this cunning veteran found means toescape. Charles being joined by Lord JohnDrummond, invested the castle of Stirling, inwhich General Blakeney commanded; but hispeople not being much used to enterprises of thiskind, they made very little progress in their oper¬ations.By this time a considerable body of forces wasassembled at Edinburgh, under General Hawley,who determined to relieve Stirling Castle, andadvanced to Linlithgow on the 13th of January.Next day his army rendezvoused at Falkirk, whilethe rebels were cantoned at Bannockburn. Onthe 17 th day of the month they began their marchin two columns to attack the King’s forces, andhad forded the water of Cawen within three milesof Hawley’s camp, before he discovered their in- *tention ; but such was his obstinacy or contempt |of the enemy, that ^e paid no attention to the |repeated intelligence he received of their motions, |being firmly persuaded that they would not ven¬ture to hazard an engagement. Perceiving,however, that they had got possession of a risingground to the southward of Falkirk, he orderedhis cavalry to advance, and drive the enemy from13'ieir post, while he formed his infantry in the or-er of battle.The Highlanders, in the mean time, kept up3 close a fire, and took so good aim, that the;ssailants being soon broken, retreated with pre-iipitation, and fell in amongst the infantry, who'ere likewise incommoded by the wind and theain beating with great violence in their faces,lome of the dragoons rallied, and again advan-’ ed to the charge with part of the infantry, w'hichIliad not been engaged; upon which Charlesa marched up at the head of his corps de reserveaiitonsisting of the regiment of Lord John Drum-finond, and the Irish piquets. These joining thewCamerons and the Stuarts in the front line, im-)‘imediately obliged the dragoons to give way a^second time, and they again disordered the footi lin their retreat, so that the King’s troops, atn length, set fire to their camp, and abandonedI Falkirk with their baggage and artillery; the- last of which never reached the field of battle.1 The rebels followed their first blow, and greatpart of the royal army, after one irregular dis¬charge, turned their backs, and fled in the ut-t most consternation. Few or none of them, per¬haps, would have escaped, had not GeneralHuske and Brigadier Cholmondely rallied partof some regiments, and made a gallant resistance14for a little time, which favoured the retreat of therest to Falkirk, whence they retired in confusionto Edinburgh.It was now judged necessary by the King’s Mini¬sters that the army in Scotland should be com¬manded by a General in whom the soldiers couldconfide; and the Duke of ^Cumberland was chos¬en for this purpose. Besides being universallybeloved by the troops, it was suggested that theappearance of a prince of the Blood in Scotland,might have a favourable eftect on the minds of thepeople in that kingdom-: he therefore began tomake preparations for his northern expedition.In the mean while, the French Minister at theHague having represented to the States Generalthat the auxiliaries they had sent into Britainwere part of the garrisons of Tournay and Den-dermonde, and restricted by the capitulation frombearing arms against France for a certain period,the States thought proper to recal them, ratherthan come to an open rupture with his MostChristian Majesty. In the room of these troops,six thousand Hessians were transported fromFlanders to Leith, where they arrived in the be- 'ginning of ” February, under the command oftheir Prince Frederick of Hesse, son-in law tohis Britannic Majesty. By this time the Dukeof Cumberland had put himself at the head of15he troops at Edinburgh, consisting of fourteenattalions of infantry, two regiments of dragoons,nd twelve of Highlanders, from Argyleshire,)nder the command of Colonel Campbell. Onhe last day of January, his Royal Highness be-ran hisjpaarch to Linlithgow, and the enemy,i/ho had renewed the siege of Stirling Castle,ot only abandoned that enterprise, but crossedhe river Forth with precipitation, while Charlesund great difficulty in maintaining his troops,is that part of the country was quite exhausted,oping, however, to be reinforced in the High-nds, and to receive supplies of all kinds fromfance and Spain, he retired by Badenoch to-ards Inverness, which the Earl of Loudon a-andoned on his approach. The fort surrender-d to him almost without opposition, and hereie fixed his head quarters. The Duke of Cum-1 icrland having secured the important posts ofd Stirling and Perth with the Hessian battalions; advanced with his army to Aberdeen, where heas joined by the Duke of Gordon, and otherlersons of distinction. While he remained inIds place, the rebels surprised, at the village ofxeith, a detachment of Kingston’s horse, and a-out seventy Argyleshire Highlanders, who were.11 either killed or taken. Several advancedparties of the militia met with the same fate in16different places. Charles having ordered Ids for¬ces to assemble, proposed marching to Aberdeen,to attact the Duke of Cumberland; but in con¬sequence of a remonstrance from the clans, who:declined leaving their families at the mercy ofthe King’s garrison in Fort William, he resolved,previously to reduce the fortress. The siegewas accordingly undertaken by Brigadier Stap¬leton, an engineer in the French service; but theplace was so bravely defended by Captain Scot,that in the beginning of April it was thought pro¬per to relinquish the enterprise.In the beginning of April, 1746, the Duke ofCumberland began his march from Aberdeen, andon the 12th passed the river Spey, without any,opposition from the rebels, though a considerablebody of them made their appearance on the otherside. His Royal Highness then proceeded taNairn, where he received intelligence that theenemy had advanced from Inverness to Culloden, Iabout the distance of nine miles from the royalarmy, with intention of making an attack. Char-1les’ design was to march in the night time, and !to surprise the Duke’s army at the break of day.!For this purpose, the English camp had been!reconnoitred, and on the night of the 15th, the 1Highland army began to march in two columns, tThey intended to surround the enemy, and at- f17;k them in all quarters, but the length of thei tumns inpeded their march, so that they were;| iged to make many halts. The men, whoI d been under arms all the preceding night,.: re faint with hunger and fatigue; so that these|: advantages retarded them greatly, and render-it impossible for them to reach the Duke’snp before sun-rise. Their scheme being thusstrated, Charles, with great reluctance, follow-the advice of his general officers, and returnedCulloden, where, as soon as he arrived, greatmbers of his followers dispersed in quest ofi ^visions, and many, overcome by wearinessd sleep, threw themselves down on the heath,s d along the park wTalls. Their repose how-tier, was soon interruped in a very disagreeablenjjmner, for Charles receiving intelligence thatSp enemy were advancing in full march to at-. jk him, resolved to hazard an engagement, and* dered his troops to be formed for that pur-•i se.JOn the IGth of April, the Duke having madecry necessary disposition, decamped early fromairn, and after a march of Nine miles, perceiv-the Highlanders drawn up in order of battle,the number of between four and five thousand:en, in thirteen divisions, supplied with a few:teces of artillery. His Royal Highness im-fISmediately formed his troops, who were mownumerous, into three lines, disposed in excelled'order; and about one o’clock in the afternoerthe cannonading began. The artillery of the w|[bels was ill served, and did very little executiorrbut that of the King’s army made prodigiovslaughter among the enemy. Being severe!galled by this fire, about 5 hundred of the clanicharged the Duke’s left wing with their ususimpetuosity and courage. One regiment wadisordered by the weight ot this column, but twbattalions advancing from the second line sustained the first, and soon put a stop to their career by a severe fire, which killed a great nunjiber of them. At the same time, the dragoon!under Hawley, with the Argyleshire militia, pullled down a park wall that covered their righiflank, and the cavalry falling in among the rebels, sword in hand, completed their confusionThe French piquets on their left covered the re¬treat of the Highlanders by a regular and well!directed fire, and then retired to Inverness, where 1they surrendered themselves prisoners of war: fAn enthe body' of the rebels marched off thefield in great regularity with their bagpipes play¬ing before them, and Charles’ standard display¬ed ; the rest were routed with great slaughter, andtheir chief was with great difficulty prevailed on:19[ retreat. In less than half an hour they were. ally defeated, and the field covered with slain.' e road, as far as Inverness, was strewed withtd bodies, aud a great many people, who, fromj/ tives of curiosity, had come to see the battle,re sacrificed in the hurry of pursuit. Twelvendred of the rebels were slain or woundedthe field, or in their flight. The Earl of Kil-urnock was taken, and in a few days Lordalmerino surrendered to a country gentleman,I whom he presented himself for that purpose,tus vanished, in the short space of one hour, all: hopes of the young adventurer, and thus waslangerous rebellion entirely extinguished.When Charles saw the battle irrecoverably lost,i retired over the water to Nairn, where stop-ng to take a view of the field of battle, he wasined by some of his people that had fled theme way. After this he paid a private visit tod Lovat, in hopes that some plan might be con-:rted for his relief; but finding that nothingas to be done, it was resolved by his friendsxat they should keep at as great a distance fromhe enemy as possible. Sullivan, his faithful ad-erent, w as of opinion, that they ought to go tojlengary, being persuaded that the enemy hadtot taken that route. They accordingly set out,nd were received with much cordiality by Mr.26M’Donald, with whom Charles continued some*time, reflecting' on the miseries and misfortuneswhich he had brought upon his followers, aridupon those which he was likely to experience be¬fore he could reach a place of safety. Several ofthe Chiefs, who visited him in his concealmentin Glengary Castle, struck with his melor.chalysituation, began to devise some scheme for re-1trieving his affairs; and for this purpose it wassuggested, that the clans should continue on thehills, till they could by some trusty messengerinform the Court of Versailles of the true stateof his army. This plan might in all probabilityhave been agreed to, had they been able to pro¬cure money for the subsistence of those troops Ibut as this was impracticable, the proposal wasdropped.On the 23d of April, Charles being informedthat General Campbell was on his march for In-rerness, with a large body of the Argyllshiremilitia, he, with a few of the Chiefs, his two fa¬vourites Sheridan and Sullivan, and about forty Ifothers, marched to Achnacarrie, where they had ftan interview with Lochiel; at a fresh consulta- Htion it was agreed that this Chief, with the Cain- Uerons and the M’ Donalds, should keep in a body,and favour any landing of succour from France ;while Charles, with his friends Sullivan, Sheri*I21rn, and some others, should endeavour to raisech a force, as with reinforcements from abroad,ti ght enable him to make a stand till more as-i tance could be procured. Next morning theyr; out for Glenphillin, where at his first landing,I13 Camerons erected his standard. Here theyide a cave the place of their residence, and werelavided with every thing necessary for life; buthuarles being uneasy in his mind, intimated a3 sire to be gone; and accordingly, after re-i aining three days, they set out for the isles.( (About this time, that is, the beginning ofay, two French men of war appearing on thelist, they were attacked by the Grey hound•; d two sloops, which they obliged to sheer off,x d having landed a considerable quantity oimey and ammunition, took on board the DukePerth, Lord John Drummond, and several o-3r officers, and conveyed them all to France ex-t the Duke of Perth, who died on his passage,arles being informed of this adventure, wasceedingly uneasy that he had missed the op-rtunity of escaping in them, and the more so,he understood they had landed 40,000 louis-rs, 35,000 of which had fallen into the handsa person in whom he placed very little con-ence.Charles now finding that his affairs grew every5of22day more and more desperate, that he was sur¬rounded by enemies, and in continual danger ofalling into their hands, consented to follow theadvice given him by Sullivan of yielding to hisimisfortunes, so far as to consult his own safety.He therefore resolved to go in quest of a boat, tocarry him over to the island of Lewis, where heentertained some hopes of finding a vessel to:transport him to France. When they reached1the sea shore, they could find no boats, as theM£ Donalds of Clanronald’s family had seized onall they could meet with, in order to transportthemselves to South Uist and the boats were not:yet returned. This obliged them to retire to themountains, in which they wandered about for threedays and nights. A boat, however, returningfrom South Uist, to fetch more of their peoplethat were missing, Charles; who observed it,immediately hastened to the shore, and raising asignal, the crew, who imagined that it was madeby some of their party in distress, put into a smallcreek to the westward of Barrisdale, and takinghim and his party on board, sailed directly taSouth Uist; and night coming on, they were!soon out of sight.Being out at sea, some of the crew proposedsail towards a small island called Canna, lying tthe westward of Mull, and Charles knowing tha«23rie inhabitants were Roman Catholics, approvedT the motion. Here they landed, and were re¬vived by the people with great hospitality; fromlienee they proceeded to South Uist, where af~i r having undergone many hardships; he wasinducted by Flora M£ Donald, disguised in wo-i en’s apparel to the Laird of M£ Kinnon’s house,! jbere she left him, and returned home,t * After this he underwent many hardships and: arrow escapes; he and Lochiel embarked on5 |le 20th of September, in a privateer of St. Malo,lired by Sheridan and some other adherents,i iving set Sail for France, they passed unseen,thder cover of a thick fog, through a Britishi ipadron, and after being chased by two Engliships of war, he arrived in France where he re-njiained till the peace of Abc-la-Chapelle, was con-aEiuded in 1748, when he was Exiled from France,t lid repaired to Avigon, where he was receivedith extraordnary honours by the Pope’s Legate,this place however he remained only a fewonths, and then went to Leige, and assumedIjie title of Baron de Montgomerie.About the Year 1757, he settled at Bouillon,town in France,) where he resided till theath of his father, when he went to RomeIn the begining of the year 1766 soon afterdeath of his father, Charles returned to24Rome, and had his audience of the pope on the19th of January; but his holiness, refused to ack-nowledge him by his father’s title. He leftRome and retired to Florence, where he lived ona small revenue allowed him by* his brother.In the year 1772 he married the Princess of .tStolberg, a German lady. This union however,to whatever cause it might have been owing, wasnot attended with that happiness which is gener¬ally expected in the married state, for she separ¬ated from him a few years after, and the breachbetween them was never made up.After this period Charles seems to have sunkinto insignificance and oblivion ; and he lived al¬most entirely forgotten, till the period of hisdeath, which happened at Rome, on the 31st ofJanuary, 1788, being then in the sixty-eighthyear of his age. By his will he made his natu¬ral daughter, whom he had by a Scots lady of Ian ancient family, and whom, in virtue of hispretended royal power as King of Britain, hecreated Duchess of Albany, sole heiress of all his ;property, which was very considerable.His remains were interred with great pomp jand ceremony in the church of Frescati, a town :twelve miles from Rome, of which his brother the iCardinal was Bishop. The funeral service was iperformed on the 3d of February by his brother, i