THJL/LAIRDGHBeing a Copy of feverai Conferences andMeetings that pitted between the Rever¬ent? Mr Ogilvie, late Minhler of the Gof.pel at Inner wick, in EaftLothian, and thelate Laird of Cool’s GHOST, as ft wasfounts in Mr Ogilvie‘s clofet after hisdeath which happenedthefe Conferences,[Written by bis own band.LO/NUBHCtH: hy J. M».9S5fif Ccirg,^,A COPY of some CONFERENCES.IFpr-N the third of Eebrutf-iy, in 1722at feven o'CJock in the evetiihg, after ( haparted with T ruston, and coming up hburiaf road, one came riding up after meupon hearing the noife of the horf- a feet,took, it to be Thr flon ; ‘buf ’ookirlg backand seeing t' e horfe ot a grey colour, 1 c lb 'cd t*ho’s there ? th-* anfwer was, the L urdof 1 00 b ot afraid ; lo king tc him with |the little light th<‘ moon afforded I took him 'to be elector Cafllelaw w q had a mind toput trick upon me, and immediately flruckwith al my fore with m - cane thinking Ifwould leave a mark upon him that would!make him r memuer his preKroption ; but"b ing fen ible I aimed as •ell -sever 1 diin m v life yet my cane finding no resiffanc-but flying out of my hand to the diflan e oilsix > feet, a? d obferving itby iro whiteheadI difmounted and took it up; but had fomed'fficu'ty in mounting again, partly by the1!ramping horfe. and partlv by rea onof acen:tain fort of trembling th oughout my wholejoints ; fomething of anger aifo had its fharein my confusion for though be laught whermy Aaff flew out of my hand, coming upwith him again (who halted at the time fwas feektng my ftaff) I asked him once morewho he was ? he -nfwered the Laird of CoolI enquired iibst if he was the Laird of Cool ssecoud What brought him thither? and,j,*hirx>, What was hit businefs with me ? htC 3 )jmfwered. the reafon that 1 v/anl you is, thatI know you ar" difpofei to do for me whatitone of your brethren iuNithfdsde will not0 much a> attempt, though it ferve never foiood a purpose, 1 to:d '".im I wou!d neverifufe to do any thing to ferve a good pur-1 ofe, if I thought I vv»s ob'iged fo do it asjiy duty ; he anfwered, hn. e 1 h<)d unr'erta-;ien w at fe in Mthfdale would, for he hadlied feveral perfms on the fubject, who!<ere more obhged to him^han I was to any•?rfon iving. Upon this I drew my bridletins, a d talking in furprife, afked what Iid und-rtaken ? he anfwered that on Sab¬ir,th aft, I card you condemn Mr Paton,Id the other minifters of Dumfries for dif-Jbadin,; Mr Menzies from keeping his ap-||ntmtnt w th me’*5', and if you had been intbir place you would have perfua ’ed theill to d..= as l desired, and that you wouldSvc gone ith . im yo. rfelf, if he had been;Jijaid and that if ,ou had been in Mr Pa-|:'s place you would have delivered my.I omiffions y« urfeif since they tended to doteral perfons juftiee ; l asked him, pray|>L who infermed you that i ta ked at that*.;? To which he anfwered you muftknow::Nm: we are acquainted with many thingsI:the living know nothing about; these| gs you did fay, and much more to thateti^oofe, go and de’iver my eommiflions to; lf toving wife. Upon this l faid,’tis a pity* fire Note zttKc boitosu o' n'ire( 4 )V-*ool thai you who knows fo many lliinga*fliould not kuow the diffirence betwren an-abs .’luteandconditional promife. Idiciindetdat the time you mention, blame Mr Paton,ior J thought him j.uftly. blameab'e, in hen¬dering the lad to meet with yoc and ifl hadbeen in his place, I would have acte- quitethe everfe t but I did never fay that if youwould come to lnn*nrick and employ mejthat I wou'd go all the way to Dumfries on*,fuch an errand thst is what uever fo much aslrentered into my thoughts; he anfwered whalftwere your thoughts I don t pretend to knowibut 1 can depend upon my information, that;thefe were your words but I fee you are iffome disorder, I wdl wait upon you whetyou have m re prefence of mind.By this time we were at James Dickfon’l ,inclofure below the church-yard and whenI was recollecting in my mind if ever I haifpoken thefe words he allcdged, he brokfrom me through the church-yard uith greaflier voilence than ever any * san on horfebac:was capable of, with fuch a finging and buz^ing noife, as put me in a greater diford*,than I was all the time I was with himf! u„came to my houfe. and my wife observed p .more than ordinary p*lenefs in my countet ';;ance and would alledge that fomething ailtme ; l called for a dram and told her 1 wi,a little uneafy. *fter I found myfe f a littrofrefhed went to my clofet to meditate Upj*! ,this the moft aftonifhvng adventureJ ‘Upon the fifth of March, 1723, being ati|iare*hea(l baptizing the (hepherd’s child,{came off at fun fetting or a little after, and: ;eaf William White s march the Laird oirlcol came up with me as formerb •• and al -ifsfer his firft falutation bade me not be afraidi|4old him 1 was not in ihe lead afraid, inle name of God and Chrilt my Saviour,y^fkat he couidnot do me she lead harm forknow that he in whom l trusted wasonger than all ther put together, ar.d if<|nv of them Ihculd attempt to do even tone horle that 1 rLe upon, as you have dc neip doctor Menzie's man, if it be true that isixidard generally believed about Dumfrieshave free accefs to complain to my Lera•t||nd Mailer, to the ladt of whole refentnien'Lou are as liable now aa before.^6otl You need-not multiply wro»ds .uponat head for y ou are as fafe with me, andafer if fafer tan be. then when I was alive,Ogil. Well then Cool, let me have a peaceble and eafv oonverfation with you for theisflrime we ride together, and give me feme•What l know concerning ibe matter is thi», th*oervunt of D. Menzie- Ph) fician in Dumfsies, told hisT>a[!crand many others, that the Laird of Cool, latelycad appealed to him, rede him down and killed hisorfe that he appointed to meet him home time aftert such a place, wide]* ht promiftd to do •, but Mr>atoa Min I'er of Dumfries advifmg him to bieak thatomife, Mr Ogilyie, then Miaifler of Inncrwick nearDunbar, on htanagybis blan ed Mr Paton much lay¬ing he would rot orly have advistu him to keep hitproroire, but weuid have gone with h ir *I ■ Jjnformation about aSairs of the otherworld: for nojman insltnes to lofe his timein cor.tferfing ^ith the dead, without hear¬ing or learning fomething tha is ufefui.Cool Wel fir, i wi*l fatisfy you as Jar asthink if proper or conve' ient. L-st eknow what intormaucn you want to know?Ogil, Ma> i then ask you if yo ; be in a;Hate of happinefs or not ?Cool. There are a great many thing: 1 cananfvver that the living are quite ignorant of?there sre a great man* th ngs notwithUan-1 ■.■ ding the additions knov/’edge l have ac¬quired fince piy death, that i cannot anfwer>iand there are a grea- many queltions andthings that you may {t*att of which the laftU one that i will not anfwer,Ogil. Then I know how to manage ourconve fa ion, for waa ever 1 fltall enquire ofyou. I fee you can eafily fhift me, fo thati might profit more by convtrfmg withmy fell.-Cool. You may try.Ogil. We'! then, what fort of a body isthat you appear in? and what fort of a hoi.feis that you ride upon, which appears to befo full of me it in ?Cool. You may depend upon it, it is notthe fame body that I was witacfs to yourmarriaire in.nor in which 1 died for that isin the grave rotting but it is fucb a body nsferves me in a moment; for I can fly as fleet f ‘w ith It as my foul can do without it, fo that }»/fo 1 can go tc Dumfries and return again JI( 1 ),if fore you can ride twice the length of yourkorfe; nay if have a mind to go to London,r Jerufa em or to the moon, if you pleafe,• can perform a 1 thefe journies equally foonoritc (Is me nothing bur a hou-Ait or wi(h,■or this body is as fleet as y>mr thought, forn the moment of time you car! turn you^hou. bts ot Rome, I can go th re in perfoa..nd as for mv horfe it is much ike myfelf3r it is Andr^V Johnfton my te) atit, whoHeied fortv-eight hours before meOgil So it feems wh$n Andrew Johnftonnclines to ridr, >ou mutt ferve bim in thefinality of a horfe s>s he does vou now.[1 Cool, You are miftaken1 Ogil, ‘ thoeight that *11 diftinotions be¬tween miftrdTes and maids, la rds and ten*i,ants had been done away atdeatti.Cool, True it is; but you do not take upe matter.Ogil, This is one of the queflions that Ion t anfwer.‘Cool, You arb miftaken, for that queftion I,n anfwer and after you rna» underdand it.Ogil. vVed then, Coo have you never|:t appeared b tore G d nor received ant nee from him as a judge ?Cool. Never »et.Ogil. ‘ know vou was a fcholar Cool, andits genera)!*■Relieved that there is a fort ofdgment befides the General, at th afti-,the former imm'.diat .ly after death*pan this he interrupted ms.( 8 )C$ol. No fucb thing no fuch thing, as etrial no trial till the great day. The hea¬ven which good men enjoy alter death, con-iifts only in ferenity of their mieds, and thefatisfaction of a good confcience, and the 11certain hopes they ha. e. of eternal joy whentfc at day {hall come l he puniflmient in hellof the wicked, ely after death, con-fids of the dreadful dings of an awakenedconlcience and the terrors of facing *- e greatjudge, and thn fenfible appre enfiens of eter-; \nal torments enLing, and this bears llilLadue prop rtion to the evils they did whenliving: fo indeed the date of feme good f Iksdiffer but little in happitefs from what theyenjoyedin the world, fave n;y that they arefree from the body, and dm and forrows thatalcrnd. d i*; on the other hand t’ ere areiome who may be faid rather not to haiebeen good, then that they were wicked;while living their date is not fo eafily dif*tinguifhed from that of the former, and un¬der that clafs cone^ a great heard of fouls,a vad number of ignorant people who havenot much minded the affairs of eternity butas the d me time have lived in much indo¬lence ignorance and innocence.la ways thought that their rejecting lithe erms of fa'vat ion offered, w s fufficientna'on for God to punifli th- m wi h his eter¬nal difpleafupe j and as to ycur ignorence,he co -Id never escufe them, fince they livein thnt part of the world, where the know-i1 . ( 9 )ifiedge of thefe things might have been eaftlj'^ttasned.CmL ^hey never properly rejected theIterms offal vation they never, ftrictly fpeakmg, rejected Chrift : poor fouls they had asJgrcat a liking both t» him and heaven, as'their grofs imaginations were capab'e of jiimpartial reafon mvft make many allowan¬ces, as the ftupidit? of their parents, want of:!j'ied ucation, diftant from pe p e of good fenfe: !land knowledge, and the uninterupted ap-'liplication t"ey were ob iged to give to their'i|eou ar affairs, for their daily bread, the im-ipious treachery of their p^ftors, who per-ufuade ! them if they be offuch a party, allwas well; and many other confiderations,which God, who is pure and perfect, reafonlitfelf, will not overlook ; thefe are not fevflmuch under the load of divine difpleaiure asilheyare out of his grace and favour; and youiknow it is ond thing to be difeouraged, and"juite another thing to be perfecuted with allhe power and rage of an infenced earthlying ] affure you men’s faces are not nr reswarious and diffe.ent in the world than theirsircumftances after death.Ggil* I am loath to be’ieve all that youmave laid at this time Cool, (but I will notJifpute thefe matters with vouI becaufe fomeI hings you have advanced feem to contradictHe Scriptures, which I (halt always look up>n as the infallible v/ordof God For ' findit the parable of Dives and Lazarus thatryi--he one was immedi tch aftar dead carriedup b' the ^gela 'nto Abrah;.m’s bo^m ancllthr other immedi. tetv thruft down into hellCoal Ex'cufe me fir, that does not con- j11tradict one word t at t have laid : but yonfeem not t© underftand the parable whofe t;only end is to ill aft rate the trrth, that a manKmay be ver har>p < and flourilhing in this :world and mod wretched and miferable in '«the next; and that . *: an mty be miler^ble 1in this wcrld and more h^ppy and glorious ;in the next,Ogil. Be it fo Cool, I Ihah yeild the point •t» you ard pa!s o another which ha» affc>rd |ed me much fpeculation firce our Jail en- ■counter, and that is how you came to knowthat Itaiked afterthe manner that l did con- <cerning Mr Paton on the firll -Sabbath ofFebruary l*ft. Was you prefent with nie, *but invifible ? he anfwered very haughtilyNo fir, l was not prefent my lei f. I anfwerv >ed I would not have you angry Cool I pro- tpofed this quclhon for my own fatisfaction, rbut if you don’t think tt proper to aofw-erlet it pafs. After he had paufed with hiseyes on the ground few three or four min- -utes of time at mod, with feme haHe and- ileeming cheerfuinefs, fays,Cool, Well fir, I fhall faiisfy you in that;point, you mull know that there are font *from heaven, angels to guard and comfort,and do them spe ial good fervices to good imen. and even the fpirits of good menM departed, are employed in that errand.Ogil. And do ;ou not thinfe that everfliman h s a g::od angel.Coal No but -1 great many particular menibave, there are but few ho ales of distinction.; efpecialb but what have at lead one attend¬ing them and from what you have alreadyheard of fpirks, it is no difficult matter touiupde. Hand ho * they may be ferviceable tole&ch particular member, though at diffrentllplaces at a great diftance. Many are ihepood offices which tne good angels do tokhem that fear God,t ough many times theyiiare not fenlible of it: and i know affuredly,dthat one powerful angel, or even an adiveiclever foul, depar'ed may be fufficient fordome villages; but for your great cities,fuchaas London Edinburgh, or the like, there*is one great angel that has the fupsrintecd-itance of the whole and there is inferior an-ligels, or fouls departed, to whofe particuhrcare fuch a man of such a particular, weightjpr bufinefs is committed. Now* firthe king-inorn of fatandpcs ?pe the kingdom of Chriftas much in matters of politics as can be,11 veil knowing that the court of wifdi.m is■ roni ahoyc; fo that from thence are fent■yut miffionaries in the fome order: But be¬ll aule the kingdom of fatan is much better .Ijeplemihed than the other,, inftead of onedevil there are, in many inftances, two oridrce commiffioned to attend a particularsjanuly of influence and <Jtiiftinction4■(12 )Qgil I r.ad tha' there are ten thoulandtimes ten tho*.faml of angels that wait uponGod, and ling his praife and do his will-, andI cannotunderltand how the go'd ange’s canbe inferior in number to the evil.Cool, Did 1 not fay that whatever the num¬ber be, the fpir ts departed ara emp’oj'ed inthe fame bufine's, fothat as to the numberof original deities, where Satan is chiet, Icannot determine, n r you reed not doubt'but there are more i uls depa ted in thatplace, which in a like fenfe you call hell, byalmoft an infinity but what are gone to thatplace, which in like fenfe you call heaven,which Hkewile arc employed in the famepurpofe j and ! can aiTure you by the bye,that tber are as great a difference between•angels both good and bad, as there is among ;men with refptcr to their fenfe, knowledge,cunning, clevernefs and action ; nay whichis mere, the departed fouls on both fides outdofeveral from their very fidt deparure ofthe original ange’s. This you will perhapsthink a paradox, but it is true.Ogil, I do not doubt it, rut what is that toi-y qued’on, about which 1 am f<> felicitous?Cool, Take a HttV pjtience.fir fr mwhitI have laid, you might h ve underftood meif you had your thoughts about you, but Pfhal! explain mvfeltfo you : Both the goodand the bad angels hi ve Hated times of ren-dezvous, and the prr cipal angels who ha chir.g-the charge of ei'her towns cities, or kir:,HIVdoms, net to mention particular persans, vi-lages and families, and all that is tranlac*ted in t' e fevreral parts of the country ar®there laid open; and at their real re-en-coun er on each lide » very thing is told asin your parifti in milns, kilns and fmithies,only vith Ihis difference, that many thingsfalfe are ta ked at the living re-encounters,but nothing but what is exact truth, ;s faidor old among the dead; only I muft obferveto you, that as I am credibly informed, fe»vera! of {he inferior bad angels and loulsof the wicked then departed, have told ma¬ny teings tha: they have done, and whena more intelligent fpirit is fert out upon en¬quiry and the deport of the former feemsdoubtful he brings in a contrary report andmakes it appear truth, the former fares veryill, neverthe'efs their regard to truth pre¬vents it for while they obferved the truth,they do their bufinefs, and keep their Ra¬tion for God is truth.OgH. So much truth berg among thegood "ngels, I am apt tc- think that lies andfalfehood will b* as much in vogue amongthe bad.Cool. A grofs miflake. and it is not aloneth'- raiftskes that the living folks fall under,with refpect to the othc* world, for the cafeplainly is this, an iil m n "ill uot ick atfalfehood to promote his end or defigu, fa aslittle will an evil foul depsr ed ftand a anything that can make hin>fe!f fuccefsful; but( *4 )a adm itting a report you muft tell the truthor woe be to him; but befide their monthlyquarterly or yearly meetings,, or whatevertthey be, departed fouls acquainted, maytake a trip to fee one another yearly weekly, daily or ofte er if they pleafe, t his isthen an aafwer t© the queftion that you wasfo much concerned about, for my informa-turn was from no lefs than-three perfons vizAndrew Vikman who attends Thrulion'sfamily, James Corbet who waits upon MrPaton, who at the t^me he was then lookingafter Mrs Sarah Paton, wha was at ourhoufe: an original emilfary appointed towait upon yours.At this 1 was much furprised, and ater alittle thinking, i asked bim, aad is there re¬ally Cool an emifbry from hell,in whateverfenfe you take it that attends my family,Ccol, You may depend upon it.C^/7.. And whavdo youthinkishisbufinefsCool. To divert you from y our duty andcaufe you u-nderftand to do asmany illthingsos he can, for much depends on havingthe minifter on their fide. .j|*iUpon this l v. cs ftruclcwith a fort of tet-ror, which l cannot account for or exprefs,in the meantime he faid fev-,ral things l didnot underhand, but after a little, I coming,to my former prefenc ■ of mind, raid,OgH. Bat Cool, tell me in earneft if therebe-indeed a divil that attends my family,though inviiiblc to... us;.ali.TI£03/. Juft as lure : s you’re breathing, butbe not fo much dejefted upon his informa¬tion for I tel* you othervvife that there isa go®d angel who attends you who b ftrong-er than the ••thenOgiL are you lure of that Cool ?Cool. Yes ; there is one riding on yourright hand, who might as well have beenelfwhere, for l meant you no harm.Ogil. nd how long has he been with me.Cool. Only fmce we palfed Brand’s iee,but now he is one.Ogil. We are jull upon hlenlclugh and Idelir-e to part with ou though perhaps Chave gained more by converfation than Icould have done othervvifein a twelvemonth1 chufe rather to fee you another time whenyou are at leifurc. and • wjlh it were at asgreat adiftance from Innervvick as you can.Cool. Be it fo fvr, but I hope tou will beas obliging to me next re-encounter as Ihave been to you th’s.Ogi'l. i promife you I will, and as far as-is Confiftent with my duty to my Lord andMaher Chrift Jefus : and line© you have o-bliged me fo much by information 1 will an-fwer all the queiUons you propofe, as far asconfists with my knowledge : but I believeyou want no information from me.Cool. 1 came not here to be inflrudled by-you ; I want your help of another kind.Upon the 5th/of April 172?. as ^ was re¬turning from Old Hainftock Oaol'came ia( *6 ) „ . I?/lth me on horfehack, at th® foot of the ru¬inous inclofure,. before we come to Dods; Itold him his laft converfation had proved fo i;acceptab'e to me thit I was well p eafed tofee him again, and that there was a vaft f1number of things that I wanted to inform |myfelf further of, if he would be fo good as |to fatisfv me.•>Cool. Laft time we met l refufed you no¬thing you asked, and now I expect that youfhall refufe me nothing that i ihall ask.O^ih- Nothing fir, that is in ray power,or that I can do with fafety to my reputa.-tian and character. What then are yourdemands ?Cool. SM that I defire of you is that as youpromifed that on Sabbath day you would goto my wife, wry, now polleffea all my eflefts,and tell her the following particulars, andtel her in my n:<me to rectify thefe matters.First, That 1 was owing justly to Prevail ■Crosby 50]. Scots, and three years intereltbut hearing of his death, my good brother,the Laird of Cool and I forged discharge,narrated the bond, the fum and other parti¬culars. with this honourable claufe, that atthe time it had fallen by, and could not befound, with an oblisation on the P.ovofl’sport, to deliver up the bond as foon as hecou.d hit up-on it it; and this difeharge wasdated three months before the provolt'sdeath ; and when his son and fucccllor,drew Crush*, wrote to me concerning this0 fin( x7 lDead, I came to him and fliewed him hisdischarge which filenced him* fo that I gotjqp my bord without more ado; and when’ l heard of Robert Kennedy's drath with the: "ame help of Cool, I got a bill 'Upon him/or 190I of which i got full and completeipayraent, Cool got the half. When 1 was. atDurnfr.es, the day that Thomas G:ierijdied, to whom I Was owing an account ofJ36I. Cool my good brother was then atLondon ana not being able of ray fell, r.eingbur a bad writer, to get a discha ge of thei| account which I wanted exceedingly, I met| accidently with Robert Bo d, a poor writeri:lad in Dumfries, 1 took him to Mrs Car-: nock s and gave him a bott e of wine,s and told him that I had paid Thomas Grier’s| account1 but wan’.ed a difcharge and if hev w.iuld help me to if, I would reward him.‘3jf He dew away from me in a great paffion,l laying he would rather be hanged, but if 1hsd a mind f r tlrele things 1 had bef er(wait till Ccol came home. This gave megreat trouble, fearing what Cool and I haddone formerly, was no fecret. 1 followedBoid to the llreet, and made an apologythat I was jefling, commending him for hishonefly, and took him fplemnly engaged,never torr-peat what bad palled. 1 lent Li¬my coufm, B-m H- rie. your good brother,' who, with no dlTi ulty, for a guinea and anhalt, undertook and performed all that Iwanted: and for a guinea more made ms up( iS )a difc^&rgefor 2001. Scots that I was o* ingto ^our father in law, an-: his friend MrMuirhead which dilcharge I gave to JohnEw-rt, when he defired the money ; ani heat itjy derire producer to you. which youTuitaitted.great many of thf like inflances weretold ot which-anvot remember the per Fontnames and things, bu- fa s he what vexesme more rhan all thefe, is the unjuflice didto tfomer Maxwell, t* na t to Lord Fiths-d»k for whom was fsetor. borrowed2000 merks f on him 500 of which he bor¬rowed fienn another f. lend ! gave him mybond ar d f ;r reafons c ntrived I chargedhi to fccrec-. he died within the year andleft nine children, his wife had died bef rehimfelf, I went tov feal up his pacers f rmy Lord’s fecurity ; his elded daughter in-treated me to lock through them al and togive her an account what was their flock andwhat was their debt ; very willing un¬dertook it, and in gok'jg through -.hetr pa¬pers, I put my own bone in m pocket: hiscircumilances proving bad, his nine child¬ren are no?? ftarving. Thefe things 1 defireyou to reprefent to my wife, and take herbrother with you, and let them be immedi¬ate! rebtifidd, for fhe has s fufficien fund 'to do it upon, and if it were done, I think.I would be eaf<- and happy, therefore I hopeyou will make no delay.After a fkor. paufe, 1 answered, it is a: ^6ocl errand Cool; y o'.t -ire fending me to cojuAice o the oppreis d and injured bu not-,wit landing hat, fee rnyfclf come in ^or200 Scots, yet I begged a littletime to con-fr e on the matter and hnce 5 find you area* muci1 maft* r or' realon now as ever, andi more tmn ever. I will firil rtafon upon the! matter in its genera view, and then withrefpect to the expediency of my being thei meiTenger, and this I wn' do \vi h aii man-n r or frank efs. From what you have fail,11 fee ciearh what yourprefent condition is,■ |fo that I need no ask anv more aaeftions[ upon that head., an*.1, you need not.bid merttake coiirape an be not afraid of you. iorfat this moment m no more afraid of ycujithan a nev/ born child.Citol, Veil fay n.Ogil. Teli: me then, if fuch is your a-ribility that you car fiy a thoufand miles in: the twinkling of an t -ev it your defire to do'hhe opprefTed juftice be as.gront as you pre-mend what’s .he reafon ycu can’t flv to the| coffers of feme rich Jew or Banker, wherethere are tboufands of gold and fiiver invi-' fiblyi ft, and invifibly return it to the coffersI of the injured r unce your wife has a luffici-i ent fund and more, why cannot you empty| her purfe and make thefe people amends ?Cool, Becaufe 1 cannot.Ogil, If thefe things be rectifn'd yqu wouldI be eafy and happv, l dr,n’t at ail credit that;■4 for whatever juft ice m&rbe done to the pea*i J 'f>le, yet the guilt of the bafe aGtion alwaysleraiina.Cool. Now you think you have hleuceime, an'i gaintd a double victory bat I vriiifhew you your miftake immediately, for Icannot touch any gold or money, by reafonof th.tfc fpirits that are ftaed guardians o£jullice and honefty.^Ogil. Wha- is : at you Mil me Coal ? Donot unworthy frllowa bruak houfe?; everynight, and yet you that can put yourfelf in¬to so m<>n? hundred diffirent fhapes in a mo¬ment cannot do it: iVhatUthat you tellme Cool ?Cool. ’ fis true fir, aguinft the living,men may find out fome probable meansof fecuriag themfeive*. but if fpirits depart¬ed were allowed then no msn would be fe-cure, for in that cafe every naan th^t L hada prejudice at weuld loon be beggared.Ogil. Might you not go to (he mines ofMexico and Peru, where thofe lutle fum«Would not be miffed?CW, No fir for the fame reafon.Ogil. But Cool there is fo much treafuresloft in the fea you might eiffly dive intothe bottom of it, i'earch for that and refundthofe people their Ioffes, where no man isinjured.Cool. You are a little too forward thisnight fir, and inclines much to banter*what I hive ftid might fatisfy you but fineit does not, 111 tell you further) that no fpi>®" I.1,«)ll*IIi"!I•:!i(21-rits g«cd or bad have the power to takeawaymonev or gold, the good ivver do, thoughthe bad if once in age it is no fmall quar¬rel forifit *ere fuowed them, then theywould be very fucefsfu] in '.heir buflinds andnever fail of gaining their points.Ogil. Vhat benders them Cool ?Cool. Superior power that governs, andguardsOgil. You have fatisfied m" entirety uponthat head ; but pray Cool what is the reatonthat you cannot go to your wife yourfelf,and tell her what you have a miud 1 fhouldthink this a more fr.rer way to gain yourpoint. *Cool. Becaufe I will not.Oigl. That does not fignify to me Cool.Cool. This is one of the queftions that Itold you long ago I would no* anfwer ? but ifgo as I defirr, I promife to give you full fa-tisfa-^!ion after you have done your buflinefs.Truft me for once, end believe me I will notdifappoint you.Upon the nth of April, 1722, comingfrom Old Cambus, on tne pofl road, I metwith Cool upon the head of the he&tb calledthe Fen ; he afked me, if 1 had confideredthe mattt r he had recommended ? 1 told himI had and was of the fame opinion I was inwhen we parted; that 1 could not pofiiblyundertake his comrfifiions, unleis he couldgive me them in writings, under his hand.( *2 )I told Him that the iih o his grievances were :fo greot that i could not poffibly rememberthem without being in wri ing - ndthat { 'wanted nothing but reafon to determine mein that and a 1-the other afisi fl of m» life. £know lay she this is a mere evasion, but tellme if the laird of Thrulbn wif d-> it ? amfure, faid 1 he will not, and d he ihoulo? Iwould do all that I could to hinder him iorI think he h s as little concern in thele m\t*ters as felf; But tell me Cool, s it not.as e fy towrite-yo r Itory as teh it orridoon what do ye call him, fori have fur.,^your horfe sn,.me-Ccs/. No fir, it is not, and p-rhaps I may •convince you of the reafonablenels ot it af*iter ware’:?..Ogj/. I would be g’ad to hear a reafonthat°is folid for not flaking to your wife }yourfelf; but for me any rational creature 1may fee what a fool 1 would make of my- Jji'elf if I would go to Dumlri. s to tell yourwife that you had appeared tc me, and toldfo many forgeries and villUnies that you ‘h,.d committed, and that fhe behoved tomake reparation : the event might perhapsbe that Ihe might fcold me, lor Ihe would beloath to p rt with any money fhe poffefles,and therefore tell me I was mad, or poss b ypurfue me tor a calumny how would 1 vin¬dicate myfe f? How could l prove that e-Yer you Ipoke with met Mr Paton and otherMtiuaifters of Durair.es would tell me it wasthe devil had fpoken -v itlr me, and whyIfhouM I repea- thefe things for truth, whichijhe who was a liar from the beginning, had;|told me; G-p-1 and B-r Har-ie wouid b®-[ upon my top and purfue me before coxnmis.I'farjes and every body would look upon mejbrain-sick, or mad therefor 1 intreat voudo not insift upon sending me an April er-■ * rand The reasonable n fs af my demandsII leave to you. o*u consideration asyo;- didi1 your former to mine. But dropping our1 mitt r t-!l our next intervife'* give me leave■ to>tnter upon fame m re diverting lubj ct;hi and I do not kno (\ (.onl but the informa-litian you ave given mav do ~s much ser-r'l vice to mankind, as the tedrefs of all thofei ! grievance* woold amount to.I.*1-IK T:- r- *isl--fMr Ogllvie died very faon after.]’ ‘j f ' ' ' i '• «. .. $In theArminian Magasine, 1785. (in additionj to what i» mentioned at the bottom of page 5.^1 “Dr Hamilton lays, the enfaing relation of whatu follow'ed, viz.-!’ An account of the Coofertnces.)'/wrote in Mr O’s own hand was found in hisddesk by Mrs Ogilvie, the gave it to Mr Landie,*c now mjnsfer at OldhaBt-ftoch, who gave it to=( 24 )A WONDERFUL STORY.From a Book entitled Visits from the workof Spirits at prese t in G, M’sCircluatiitg Cotlection.A Clergyman in America fees his own Ap«jpjriti^n..A C'ergymtn, who lived in MalLchafutsf~\ America arid had imertained an opi*nion for more than fifty ye irstliat fucb ftoritsfwere only the vapours of a diftempered and1weak brain ; who was convinced at lift inth- following manner : Being in his ew«garden, he faw his own liknefs or apptri*tion, drefsed as he wss then, palled himand looked him full in the face. He ran intcthe houfe in a great furprise, told his fami‘j|what he had feen, ?nd thu he was convin¬ced'of his former error, and that he fearedhe lh«u!d live bu* a few days. His wordsproved true/for^he died a Ihort time after,FINIS.