TapIRISH ASSASSIN,OR THEMISFORTUNESor THEFAMIJLY of O DOMUXIXi.By HESRY VIISCE3ET, Esq.20~IRISH ASSASSIN.a iit oDark was the night, and bleak blew the wind, as theguilty O’Donnel, the mention of whose name instilleddread wherever it was heard, paced to and fro with cau¬tious steps in the front of a splendid mansion, situate inSackville Street, in the City of Dublin ; a deathlikesilence prevailed, and nought but the shrill signings ofthe gale occured to interrupt the gloomy broodings ofhis anguished mind. Approach! Approach! he criedin a voice of smothered rage, thou cursed villain, whoseblasted machinations have for ever destroyed the fameand the family of my forefathers, and let the last existingbranch of that once proud and distinguished clan finishthe catalogue of his crimes, of which thou hast been theprimary cause, by sheathing his trusty weapon in thyblackened heart, in which as been engendered all thosehell born schemes of mischief that have made him thewretch ho is 1At that moment, a person, whose outward appearancebespoke him of the middling order of life, approached,and ran quickly up the few stone steps that led to thehall-door, before which O’Donnel had been anxiouslywatching. He had lifted his hand to the knocker, andwas about to give the accustomed rap, when he wasseized by the sinewy arm of O’Donne!, who instantlyplunged a pbTgnard into his side, and exclaimed withsavage exultation: “ that, to thy heart, thou fiend ofHell, and by this,” repeating his thrusts, “be the manesof murdered innocence appeased ! ’ A hollow groan wasthe only sound that escaped the stranger, who fell sense¬less against the railings. O'Donnel contemplated hisdreadful work for a few moments with a steady gaze,3and then directing his impious eyes towards Heaven, re-11 turned thanks for the opportunity given to him of perpe¬trating the horrid deed. The sound of voices within thehouse now filled his guilty bosom with alarm, and withthe swiftness of lightning he flew towards the country.Towards the latter end of the Summer of 1793. ourihero arrived at his eighteenth year, a season when theI heart of youth is most susceptable of the softer impres¬sions. As he was riding one evening at this period,through the lands in the vicinity of his father's estate;i oppressed by the heat, he entered under the refreshingshade of a neighbouring wood, which cloathed the sideshof a steep mountain that reared its head before him.’ The appearance of the spot was bewitchingly picturesquethe verdure ol the meadows, the grouping of the cattle,') with here and there a cottage embosomed in the foiiageijjof the wood, and the varying shrubs which climbed alongI the occasional rugged projections of the craig, all tend-jed to heighten the beauty of the scene. The sombre:j shades of night were fast approaching, the setting Suni smiled w th a farewell lustre on the smmits of the hilts,uand the water of a neighbouring stream, which flowedI slowly o’er its sandy bed, received a deeper gloom fromI the lengthening shadows ot the mountains. The nightI closed in ere he could tear himself from the enchantingif region, which he promised to visit once more on the en-i suing morning.The succeeding day was excessively hot, but as even¬ing approached, nature againassunied hermellow colour¬ing, a id again did Arthur dwell with rapture on thescenes he had viewed with to much pleasure the nightbefore. He entered the wood ami pursued a path thatran in an oblique direction gently winding up the hill;it was soft as moss, and of a vivid green, and through' many little openings in the wood, the crags, the adjacentvillage, and the meandering stream were seen to great1 advantage. He had not proceeded far, before a neatwhite cottage, built on a little level, on the side of a hill,20-attracted his notice. There was an air of taste and sim¬plicity in every thing around it, which excited his utmostcuriosity with respect to its inhabitants, of whom, fromthe scene before him, he formed the most romantic ideas. !it was placed in that situation, which, of all others, wasthe most picturesque; that rs, its point of elevation wasnot too great for the landscape. From the bottom of asmall lawn which spread before it, the wood graduallyfell to the margin of the river, and a number of giganticoaks covered the hill behind it nearly to the summit, abroken line of moss-hung crags however, still peepingbeyond. Against the front of this cottage grew an oldwoodbine, whose branches, mingling with each oiher,crept round four neat sash windows, that glowed as firefrom the reflection of the Sun. While he stood sileotlyadmiring the beauty of the scene, the door ot' the cot¬tage was opened, and a young woman, clothed with eie-gant but artless teste, stepped out upon the green ; onIter arm there leant a man of very interesting figure andrather stricken in yean, who, after looking round himwith an air of satisfaction. smiled with parental fondnesson his fair companion, and gave to Heaven with cheer¬ful piety, his grateful thanks for the blessing he enjoyed.Thus was Arthur sit.rated, and having gratified hisfancy w-ith the scenery arounO, was about to return hutno sooner did the two figures appear before him, thanhis best and sweetest feelings were called into action;the country assumt d a more enchanting hue the sun yshed a mellower and more delicious tint, and every ob¬ject seemed heightened with a pathetic glare. An in-tellitrence the most expressive sat on the features of theyoung woman—an intelligence so divine, sc mild, sograceful, that Raphael might have studied it w ith rap- !ture. She had on a gown of white cotton, and round Iher waist tltere was a green sash; her hair of a nut browncolour, hung down loosely upon her shoulder, anti fromher left arm depended asmail basket. The person wholeaned upon her right arm was dressed in a scarlet raili-tary coat; hi#countenance was strongly marked martial,i but at the same time mingled with much benignity; his; forehead was bold and open, his eyes full and dark, hisj eye-brows black and thick, his nose aquiline, and his chinit rather prominent; he had a staff in his hand, and al¬though apparently possessing vigour and health,he wajk-. ed with difficulty from an injury in his left leg.Arthur bad till now remained concealed behind sometrees, but stepping forward to continue the objects ofHhis admiration in view, a favourite dog, who ran by theiriside, observed him, and beginning to bark with vehe-i.jmence they turned round. He lound himself discoveredl and advancing towards them, begged they would pardonilhis obtrusion, with that suavity and dignity of mannersiiof which he was so capable. They smiled at his apologyjand the old man with much good nature told him, hewas welcome to his farm; it gave him pleasure, he said,to see he admired his situatian, and added, if he couldijbear to saunter no faster than himself, he would shew| him some parts well worth seeing, and which probablyI bad escaped him.I An agreeable conversation soon took place, into whichl|the amiable Maria, for such she was called, entered withij the most frank and bewitching simplicity, speedily coq-ivincmg our hero, that her heart and her understandingI’were as lovely as her form. As they chatted tqgethprI the reserve natural to strangers wore off, and Arthqrhaving expressed much satisfaction, mingled with somecuriosity as to their mode of life, the old man with greati affabiliity told him his short but melancholy tale. Hisname (he said) was Farrell, and having at an early periodof life chosen the profession of arms, by his assiduity andattention he soon recopimended himself to the notice qf' his colonel, who rewarded him with promotion to a lieq-tenancy. Shortly after he married the daughter of aclergyman: his connubial joys were however bpt short,(as his regiment was ordered to Germany in a few days*whither bis too affectionate wife, who was then pregnant.6insisted on accompanying him. The army was soonordered to the field, and ere long the dreadful confusionof war burst around them. Still, however, his wife fol¬lowed him with persevering attention. One morninghis regiment, with others, was ordered to Ostend, andhaving taking an affectionate farewell of his Maria, hemarched with a palpitating heart to a scene of carnageand blood, from whence he was soon cairied back to thecamp in consequence of a wound he received in the leftknee, by a musket ball.The anguish of his amiable wife may well be conceiv¬ed on his return, but resisting the feelings of nature, shesoon exerted herself in preparing the necessary comfortsfor his unhappy situation. Those exertions were, how¬ever, too severe for her tender frame, already awakenedby a succession of hardships. In a few days she becameunwell, and was confined to her bed, where shortly aftershe was delivered of a daughter.A few mornings after the birth of his daughter, whenthe health and strength of his consort seemed fast re¬turning, he awoke, and called to her to know how shefelt herself. To his first call he received no answer, herepeated his cries, but still a death-like silence prevailedAlarmed at tlv's unusual circumstance, he called aloudfor a soldier’s wife who attended his Maria. She soonentered, and by her master’s desire, approached the bedof her mistress. But, Oh God ! who can describe thesensations of the lieutenant, when, on the clothes beingturned down, he observed his beloved Maria bathed inblood, and his infant daughter immersed in the purplestream! Notwithstanding his dangerous situation, hetottered from his bed. and then threw himself on thecouch of her he adored; where, overcome by the horrorof the scene, he became senseless. While in that situa¬tion, the cries of the attendant attracted some of thesoldiery to the spot, who, on examining the body of MrsFarrell, discovered, that, during the night, a random shotfrom the enemy had entered the tent, and with it came7Ithe shaft of death to the unfortunate Maria, who layasleep with her child in her arms. From the sleep oflife, she sunk to that of eternity, and breathed no more!The infant Maria, who had been named after her motherwas however unhurt, and was consigned to the care ofa soldiet’s wife, who had buried her own child, and whoibecame an affectionate foster mother to her tenderIcharge.The unfortunate lieutenant, on awaking to the horrorlof his situation, became almost distracted, and made•several attempts to terminate his existance, but was hap-jpily prevented by his attendants Some months nowelapsed, during which, the wound in the knee assumeda favourable appearance, and in a short time he wasagain enabled to join the ranks. During the remainderof the campaign, he dhtinguished himseif on several oc¬casions, and finally rtceived a captains commission;phortiy after which Ids regiment was ordered home. Onhis arrival in England, tiie wound in his knee again brokefoith, and after in vain struggling against its obstinacy,she was obliged to retire fiom the service on half-pay;and having sought for a cheap but comfortable residence,nhe at length met with his present cottage, where, blessedwith the dutiful and affectionate attention of his lovelyIMaria, nothing on this side the grave he thought couldaadd to his content.They had by this time readied the cottage, when Ar-utiiur would have taken his leave, but Farrell begged hewould step in and grace his humble shed. He couldifnot refuse ; there was an air of gentleness and sincerityi about him, that would not admit of a denial; he stepped> therefore into a very neat little parlour, where, sittingi down, the worthy host desired hisdaughter to bring someof the best wine; ‘ if you can excuse.” he said, *• whati an old soldier can afford, you are welcome.”Arthur was much affected, and without a word invo-Iiluntarily stretched out his hand, which Farrell seizedwith warmth—they weie silent.8Miss Farrell entered—she smilled, and throwing herblue eyes upon Arthur, offered him wine. He took aglass—his hand trembled—he drank her health ; it washe thought, the most delightful wine he had ever tasted—he praised her still, and she blushed. “I am glad itpleases you,’’ she said. At this moment, turning roundto speak to her father, the bright hilt of a sword whichhung over the chimney-piect, attracted the attentinn ofArthur.Farrell observed it, and rising from the chair took itdown ; he drew it from the scabbard, “this,” cried he,waving it round his head, “ this, Sir, was once my onlyfortune—my only friend.— With this and much goodservice has it done me.—with this, I have known theday, when, shrinking from the lightening of its edge,the foes of Ireland have retired.”The night was fine, the moon had arisen, and sweetly ,illumined the river and distant mountains ; all, exceptthe nightingale, was mute; and struck by a scene so ac¬cordant with his feelings, it was late ere he reachedhome, where his mother was anxiously awaiting his re¬turn.After supper, he related to his affectionate parent thelittle adventure of the evening: and she, with the warmthusual to her on such occasions, participated in all thefeelings of her son, and enamoured of theglowingpictuiehe had diawn, she promised to visit Farrell and his ami¬able daughter on the ensuing morning.During the whole night, Arthur could not-Hvest him-»elf of the idea of Maria, whose bewitching figure wasconstantly in his mind. He rose with the lark, and im¬patiently awaited the rising of his mother. He was sooncalled to breakfast, at which he scarcely eat a mouthful,and at eight o’clock the carriage was ordered, and LadyO’Donnel, accompanied by her son, were driven to thefoot of the hill on which the cottage of Farrell stood,where they alighted aud walked up the path which Ar¬thur had taken the preceding night. They soon reachedthe cottage, and found Farrell and his amiable daughterl at breakfast, who rose with some marks of confusion at; this unexpected visit; but soon recovering their wonted>isuavity, they welcomed their guests with genuine satis-ij faction.Maria now busied herself in removing the breakfastthings, and in a few minutes a general and animatedconversation ensued. From the house they removed tothe lawn, and from thence surveyed the surroundingprospect, with which Lady O’Donnel was infinitely de-;lighted; and not less was she delighted with her hostand his lovely daughter, in whose conversation she ex¬perienced the utmost satislaction. She secretly resolved,• howrever. to give them some substantial mark of her es-Heem, and for that purpose invited them to her house on; the following day. 1 he invitation was most gratefullyiaccepted, and amongst those who felt particular pleasurenon the occasion, Arthur was foremost.On the next day Capt. Farrell and his daughter ar¬il rived at the great house, as it was called by the neigh-i bouring peasantry; they were received at the gate byJ Arthur with the sincerest satisfaction, and on being con¬ducted to the parlour they experienced from Lady(O’Donnel, all that delicate and hospitable attention1 which formed a principal feature in her character. Theyhi amused themselves during the morning in exploring thea beautiful and extensive grounds in the vicinity of thehouse; and after dinner, Arthur observing his motherand Capt. Farrell in close conversation, begged the fa¬vour of Miss Farrell’s company to the garden, where hepromise i to shew her all the beauties, which were »oi richly and abundantly scattered in all directions; Shei willingly accepted the invitation, and in a few secondsi they entered the garden. Arthur offered his arm to hitfair companion, which she tremblinglj accepted.While examining one of the hot-houses, they wrereobserved by M Pherson, the steward, who approachedand offered his services to explain the process attending10the culture of exotic plants. Arthur, however, desirousof being alone, in rather a haughty tone, told him hispresence could be dispensed with.M‘Pherson made his bow and retired, but was sostruck with the beauty of Maria, that, after having re¬treated to some distance, he stopped to admire her.Not being aware of who she was, he went among theservants to enquire, and at length ascertained from thefootman, who had accompanied the carriage that convey¬ed Lady O’Donnel and her son to the cottage on thepreceding day, that she was the daughter of Capt Fur¬red, a poor half-pay officer, who had dined with hismistress on that day, and who was then in the drawing¬roomThe suspicions of M'Pherson were now rouzed, andnotapproving of the appat ent close intimacy bttweenhis young master and Maria, he returned to the gardenin search of them, resolved to watch their actions. Hesoon traced the happy pair to a summer-house, wnitherthey had retired from the heat of the sun.At the moment M'Pherson, who secreted himselfbe-hind some shrubs, arrived, Arthur was holding the fairhand of Maria, and m an enraptured tone expressing theimpression she had made on his heart-Maria, a stranger to the wiley ways of the world, asfreely confessed that she felt lor him the affection of asister. Arthur instantly caught her in his arms, and inan extatic embrace, vowed eternal love, and she made areciprocal promise and the mutual bond was sealed bya thousand innocent and endearing kisses. 1 he enrap¬tured pair now proceeded to the house, ignorant of thespy they had had on their actions, and each delightedwith the assurance received from the other, looked for¬ward with confidence to future bliss. On entering thedrawing-room, tea was served up; and shortly after,Lady O Donnel ordered her carriage to convey her hum¬ble but admired friends to their cottage. On the wayhome, Capt. Farrell informed Maria, that their benevo-i lent friend, had, in the most delicate and generous way,;i insisted on his acceptance of an annuity during life, ofil je.100 a-year. The gratitude of Maria at this unexpect-ied information, knew no bounds ; she shed tears of af¬fection, and spoke in terms enthusiasm of the familythey had left, for whom she innocently observed, she en¬tertained an affection almost as strong as for her father.!M Pherson, after Arthur and Maria had left the gar-Sden, came from his hiding place, resolving in his ownimind that the intentions of wishes of his young mastershould never be accomplished. This determination headopted from a twofold reason: first because he knewit would be in direct opposition to the w ill of Sir N eale;and next, because he felt a desire for Maria himself,conceiving that her father, would accept withavidity,anyS proposition he should make, holding, as he did, alucra-tiveand advantageous situation, whiclihis owndishonestyrendered doubly profitable.In furtherance of this design, he went on the ensuingij morning to the cottage, and having explained fromwhence he came, he was received by Capt. Farrell with.: the greatest cordiality.^ Maria soon afterwards entered the room, and instantlyrecognized M'Pherson; who addressed her with greatrespect. There was something in his appearance notcalculated to elicit respect, and she returned his civilityI with distant reserve. This, however, did not deter himfrom his purpose ; and having taken his departure forthat time, he returned in a few days, and begged a pri¬vate conversation w ith Capt, Farrell who readily com¬plied with his wishes. The insiduous Scot then openedhis mind, and made propositions for the hand of Maria.Capt, Farrell in answer, observed, thatto the connec¬tion with Mr M'Pherson he had not the slightest objec¬tion ; but, as he was resolved never to controul thei inclinations of his daughter iu the choice of a partner forlife, he must refer all suitors to herself, and whateveri was her determination, he would willingly accede to.1«With this answer M’Pherson was obliged to be con¬tent, although he did not argue favourably of his successwith Maria, whose secret attachment to Arthur he WeilfctteW.Tb Maria, therefore, he directed his constantatteution,bringing her presents of the most delicious fruits fromthe garde t of Sir Neale, and using every other expedientfri his power to gain her respect, but without success.He generally so timed his visits, as not to meet withArthur, who became a constant attendant the cottage,attd who, on being informed by Maria of the presump¬tuous intentions of M’Pncrsorf, was outrageous, andcould scarcely be prevented frO u sacrificing him of hisanger.Several months how elapsed, in which the passion ofArthur and Maria attained adcitioualstrength, and couldScarcely be concealed in the presence of Lady U'Dontielon her occasional visits to the cottage.SVhile things Were thus situated in Donegaf, Sir Nealewas advancing in his political cureer in Dublin with rapidsteps ; his talents attracted universal admiration, and atlength raised him to the highest office under the vicroy,Who entertained for him the most profound esteem, \l-though thus successful in his views, he did not neglectthe interests of his son, for whom he at length procuredft Situation immedlatly under his own auspices. Of thiscircumstance he dispatched intimation to Lady O’Doti-nel, directing that Arthur should be sent without delay.On the arrival of the packet Containing this infonna-tibrt, Lady O'Donnel felt peculiar pleasure, as shethought her beloved Arthur had now arrived at an agewhen he should know something of the world, and enterinto thlt career which his father had followed with somuch honour to himself and satisfaction to his superiors.While reading her husband’s letter Arthur entered—he hid just left his Maria.“Come, my Arthur,” said Lady O Donnei, “I havegood news for you, your father has procured for you a20-13i situation in the castle, which I trust will be the first stepl towards that distinction I am convinced your talents and] perseverance will acquire.”Had a clap of thunder rolled over the head of Arthur,' he could not have been more alarmed than at this com-i munication, “ What!” said he to himself, ‘to leave myI Maria, to quit all these innocent pleasures which I havei so long enjoyed, and to embark in the troubled scenes ofI the political world, Oh God ! how wretched is my fate !' “ Still.” continued he, my father must be obeyed: his1 ambitious temper will never brook a refusal, and however■ inconsistant with my own inclinations, his will must bei. my law.”Having finished his soliloquy, during which his amiableH mother regarded him with astonishment, he raised hisl! head, and in a hurried tone, expressed his readiness to)’ comply with Ids father’s wishes, lie then left the room3i: and proceeded with a quick pace to imparl the gloomyIf news to Maria, whose anguish exceeded all consolation| lor a considerable time.To discribe the wretchedness of Maria is beyond ourij powers; suffice it to say,her wretchedness wentfar beyondM the bounds of common lamentation, and approached|| near distraction than the sorrow of sanity.Arthur at length tore himself from her arms and re-ii: turned home to make preparations for his journey, whicht was to commence the ensuingmorning at an early hour.It would be needless to describe the delight felt byM Pherson on receiving instructions to prepare they travelling equipage of Arthur; his hopes were renewedI towards Maria, and he trusted by his own wiley machina-ations at length to be able to gain the consummation ofhis wishes in that quarter.At the dawn of day, Arthur after taking a most affec¬tionate leave of his mother, set out for the capital, at¬tended by a trusty servant, anil in a few days reachedi his father's house, in Sackville Street, where he met amost welcome reception.14.We must now pass over three years of our hero’s life,during which he frequently visited the seat of liis ances¬tors, and as frequenty renewed his vows of fidelity to hisMaria with redoubled argour, lor whom his love grewmore ardent, and in whose presence alone he enjoyed realhappiness. During that period M‘Pherson was con-tinuilly urging his suit, but was invariab'y treated withindignation. Still, however, he did not despair, and felta confident hone his purposes would yet be attained,from the knowledge he had of Sir Neale’s ambitiousviews for his son.Arthur had now arrived at the age of manhood, andbegan to think of some expedient to induce his father toagree to his connection with Maria. Several plansoccured to his mind, but they were all rejected as futile.While thus undetermined, one morning, towards thelatter end of the summer of 1796, his father desired tohave some private conversation with him, aud after a pre-faratory address called his mind to the necessity of form¬ing on alliance suitable to his rank, observing at the sametime, that, from some hints thrown out by a noblemanof distinguished eminence, who had a lovely daughter,and with whom Arthur was well acquainted, he wouldbe received as a welcome suitor. To this harangue,Arthur, from his confusion, could give no decisive an¬swer, he stammered out his disinclination for a matri¬monial connection at so early a period of his life, andhoped his father would give him time to consider of theproposition. Sir Neale laughed heartily at his son’s 1modesty, as he termed it, and jokingly desired him totake care that a more successful candidate did not jockeyhim.In a few weeks Arthur again returned to the country,and finding there was little chance of bringing his fatherto his terms, he came to the desperate resolution ofprivately marrying his Maria through the medium of aRoman Catholic Priest. Considerable difficulties arosain accomplishing this object; but, to the infinite delight—\10.1$Kof our hero, that happy, happy hour arrived when hepressed the object of his adoration to bis beating heart3as his partner through the cares and vicissitudes ot life.Maria, for w'hom Lady O Donnel felt a parental affec-ri tion, became an almost constant visitant at the “gr^thouse," not unfrequently stopping there by the weeklit together.An event, how^ever too soon occured, which seemedas a sort o( warning to the miseries which are to follow.One fine summer’s evening, as the gentle Maria, was re-i turning to her fathers cottage, she had scarcely got outiof sight of the wall of O’Donnel park, when she was metby M-Pherson, whose disorderly appearance evidentlyshewed he had been drinking. He came up to her, andin a brutal tone, asked whither she was going? “ Home,t Mr M‘Pherson,” said Maria, “ rest you here then younglady,’- said he, ‘ for I've got a few words to say to you."“ It is getting late, Mr M'Pherson,” returned Maria, “Imust proceed home.” “ Ne’er you mind your hame,young lady,” continued he, “we dinna part sae ensily,you mon gi'e me a kiss.” Having said this he rudelycaught her round the neck, and with his impious lipsimprinted an odious kiss on her cheek. She was extremelyalarmed, and struggled to get from his grasp. In vain,however, did she exert herself, he threw her on theground, and thrusting his hand into her bosom began totake the most indecent liberties. She now could scarceleyspeek from terror, and in a smothered voice she beggedhim to desist. She used her utmost strength to get fromhis hold, but all in vain. She shrieked witfi violence,but alas! her cries were not heard. At length the villainsucceeded in stopping her cries by holding her petticoat,| which he had brutally raised, over her mouth, and wasIt about to accomplish his vile intentions, when he wasalarmed by the lifeless manner in which his unfortunatevictim lay; he uncovered her face, and he feared he hadmurdered the unfortunate innocent. Too soon, however,( his fears w ere removed, the colour returned to the cheeksg?es and her ejaculations for assistance—which, ere herinfernal assaulter had triumphed, through the interven¬tion of all-seeing Providence, arrived on the spot, and ata moment when an instant’s delay might have been fatalto the chastity of Maria, the villain received a blow froma cutlass, which deprived him of all sensation, and almostin the same instant the almost senseless innocent wasraised to the affectionate arms of her parent, who havingset out from the cottage to meet his beloved daughter,was alarmed by her first cries, and with as much speedas his lameness would permit, proceeded to her assistancewhich happily he was enabled to give in time to preserveunsullied, the only comfort of his existance. Most for¬tunately, his stick having been mislaid, he brought withhim his trusty sword, on which he leaned to support histottering frame, and which enabled him to bestow a de¬served chastisement on the monster M'Pherson.Conceiving he had killed the impious ruffian, he pro¬ceeded slowly on his way towards the cottage, withdifficulty supporting Maria, who could not utter a wordfrom agitation. He at length arrived at home, and con¬signed to the care of her foster-mother, who had alwayslived with him, his tender charge. On the ensuingmorning Maria told her unhappy parent her little tale,and they together returned thanks to heaven for her hap- .py escape; while Captain Farrell expressed his intentionof going to Lady O'Donne! to inform her of the miscreantshe had in her service.We must now return to the villain M'Pherson, whosoon recovered from the effects of the blow he had re¬ceived, which was attended with no dangerous symtoms.On rising from the ground, he observed a small casketlying a few paces from him, which he picked up, and on :examining its contents discovered the certificate of Ar¬thur and Maria’s marriage, together with their wedding17ring, an I two or three notes written by Arthur, in whichhe addressed Maria as his wife. In a moment thediabolical mind of M'Pherson suggested a plot, whichN| would revenge him on both Maria and his young master,i and enabled him to leave Donegal, which he would bei constrained to do. He proceeded directly home, and> go'ng bv a jirivate way to his own room, packed up albill those valuables he had been enabled to cohect duringijf his service, which, beside many parloined, and lodgedn in a bank in Dublin, amounted to a very considerableU sum. Having done this, he took horse and proceededdirectly for the capital, taking with him the casket con-ij taining the proofs of Arthur's marriage. In two daysi i and nights he reached the house of Sir Neale, to whomI he introduced himself in the most abrupt manner, apolo-;j gizirrg for his presence, by saying nothing hut his regardil for the family of the O Donnel’s could induce him toU|I come in person so great a distance. VN ithout fartherirl circumlocution he then placed in the hands of Sir Nealeill the casket which he had brought with him.ii Sir Neale looked with astonishment at M'Pherson,| then at the casket. '4 What.” said he, “am L to under-l| stand from this?” ‘Open ye the casket,” repliedI M Pherson, “and you will be informed,” Sir Nealei|i opened the casket, and took from it the papers it con-■ tained. The first o( those that he examined was a shortci note from Arthur to Maria, couched in the following* terms:“Dearest Maria,“ The moments seem ages until I can againi press to my heart my ever-adored wife. A few hoursi and I shall be with you. Oh ! Maria, you know noti how 1 love you. Scarcely can I exist but in your pre¬sence. I send this by Henry, lest you should think thetime long ere l visit the cottage.Adieu,Vovr Arthur.”20-18After his passion was over, he desired M‘Pherson togive him an account of the circumstances which led toIn's son’s marriage.M‘Pherson readily complied, reciting all the facts ofthe progressive passions of Arthur and Maria which cameto his knowledge, and concluded by observing, that, asthe parties had been married by a Roman CatholicPriest, they might be parted, such a junction not beingdeemed legal according to the laws of the ProtestantChurch.Sir Neale listened to the maddening tale with dread¬ful sensations, and on its termination his rage knew no jbounds. He cursed himself, his wife, his son, all theworld, and seizing M'Pherson by the throat neatlystrangled him, observing, that if be had done his duty bytransmitth g an account of the first interview betweenArthur and Maria in the summer-house, all might havebeen well. “ VVhat do I say;” continued he, “all shallbe well if I wash from the face of the earth, in their owngore, all those who have thus conspired to sully the bloodof the O'IDounels ” He then rang the bell, ordered hispost carriage, and drove towards Donegal.Arthur ivas a short distance from town with a friend,but returning the next day,he learntthe arrival of M‘Pher-son, and the sudden departure of his father. At first hewas alarmetl lest any sudden illness of his revered motherhad caused his father so abruptly to leave tow n; hut thenhe conceived, if that was the case, some information onthe subject would have been communicated to him.Racked with uncertainty, be endeavoured to find M’Pber-son, but his searches were vain. His anxiety was how- ,ever terminated by the arrival of a short letter from hisfrom bis faithful servant, Henry M'Guire to whom alonehe entrusted the secret of his marriage with Maria, andto whose special care he recommended her when he lastquitted Donegal, charging him to watch over her withthe e^e of a protector.The letter was as follows:Donegal, Sunday night.My ever respected master, I have only time to exhortou to proceed hither without delay. The villainM‘Pherson, after the most diabolical attempt to forceiiiny young mistress to his odious purposes, in which he'was happily prevented by her father, has gone to Dublin,land informed Sir Neale of your marriage, who has ar¬rived here in the most dreadful pission ; he has lockedyour mother in the vault below the li ft wi ig, and youridear unfortunate wife, who was on a visit to her, he has! treated with unparalle'ed brutality, turning her out ofdoors in a rainy night, and even striking her some severelows in the heat of his anger. My poor lady is now atMurphy’s cabin extremely ill, attended by her unhappy’ather, whose cottage was burned down last night. Comeas swift as you can, as I fear my young mistress is inreal danger, and raves continually of you. In haste,our devoted servant,Henry M'Guire.When Arthur had received this agonizing letter heihad juft returned from ri ling. His agitation for somentime was' very great. At length he rang for a servant,jiwhom he desh ed to get his horseto the door in a momentnand to fix. the travelling holsters with a brace of loadeddpistols to the saddle, as lie was going a long journey.While the unhappy \rthur is winging his speed to theohouse of his forefather’s, we wid return to Sir Neale, whoiiarrived at his estate on the afternoon of the third day,I bloated with contending passions of injured pride, andd inveterate hatred towards all w ho he conceived were■ privy to the conduct of bis son. Amongst others includ-fed in the curses he was incessantly venting, his amiablewife was foremost. To her he attributed much of his||jsupposed dishonour, and on her innocent head he deter-iimined to take the most signal revenge. On his en-ittering the hall of the chateau, the first person he metwith was Lady O’Donrel, she was leaning on the arm ofMaria, who was spending a few days with her adoredbenefactress. Without a moment’s hesitation lie seizedthe unfortunate Maria by the hair, dragged her roundthe hall, kicked her w ith the most evcrable brutality, andacted like a mad man. Mis wretched victim soon be¬came senseless, and on lady O’Donnel’s flying to herassistance he dashed her from him with horrible exe¬crations, and then fastening on his terrified wife, whocould only ascribe the husbands conduct towards mad¬ness, he drew her towards a trap-door, which led to thecellars beneath the house, and opening it, threw herdown the stairs and then following, lifted herlifelessbodyfrom (lie dark ground, and deposited it within a cell,fiaving done this, he returned to the hall at the momentwhen the exhausted Maria was returning to a sense ofher wretchedness. Perceiving her rise from the cold flagshe again tan to her, and with refinement of cruelty, hethrew her out on die gravel walk in the midst of a heavyshower of rain, and shut the door with a thundering clap.The worthy Captain F irrell was intertaining a fewfriends,at the cottage. In the midst of their convivalitya knock at the door disturbed them. Captain Farrellarose and opened it ; but, oh God ! who can discribe thehorror of his feelings, when his lovely Maria fell into hisarms drenched with rain and void of ail sense. She wasseized witli the most dreadful fits, which quickly suc¬ceeded each other. Her agonized parent carried herto her apartment, where she continued in ti e mostmelancholy state, and at length the premature birth ofa child unfolded her unhappy secret, and gave to theheart of Farrell a pang of which he never got the better.Towards the close of the evening the shrieks of theservant girl attracted the attention of Farrell, he ran toascertain the cause, and was soon woefully convincedof his eminent danger. The outhouses were all in onemass of flame. Swift as his enfeebled limbs would per¬mit did he fly to the chamber of his daughter, andwrapping her in a coverlid he carried her out upon thelawn. There did he return thanks to God for her5 escape. The people of the village alarmed at the sight,: rushed to the hill to give them assistance, and amongst: the foremost came Murphy. To see the situation of! Maria was enough for him, he hastily conveyed her toi his humble cabin, where he consigned her to the care of; his wife.Scarcely was a letter sent off to Arthur when theI angel of death threw the shadow of his wings over the; cabin of Murphy, and the eyes of the gentle, the mur-: dered Maria, were closed in darkness eternal.When Parrel’s grief was somewhat abated he arose’ from the bed and exclaimed, “ Farewell, my Maria,: | thou that were the solace of my age, farewell!On the third morning after the decease of the angelicii Maria, the villagers were assembled on the green op¬posite poor Murphy's cabin, and on their faces dweltil the sentiments of pity and regret. In the bed-room ofilthe cabin was placed the coffin of Maria, and beside itr ; knelt the unfortunate Farrell. It was then carried out|| upon the green, where half a dozen young women dres-• sed in black supported it, whilst as many more walkedi' two and two before, and the like number 1 ehind.They entered the church, and the ceremony com-i imenced. A caim resignation was appirent in the•; countenance of Farrell The service had proceeded ajl considerable way, and the corpse was made ready tol|be iaid ir. the eaith, when suddenly the folden doors ofi! the church flew open, and a young man rushed vehe-limently in, exclaiming •* Where is my Maria! 1 will see!Tier once more ! 1 con e to die with thee, mv love !Stand off ye inhuman wretches and give me way!’’ Hethen broke through the crowd, and seeing the coffinstarted some paces bai kwards. <:He!p me, she is inur-1 tiered 1 my gentle lo»e is murdered!'’ He becamei speechless with agony. It was with the utmost difficultyhe was torn from it; but at length having liberatedhirmelf he pansed a moment, and muttering. ” I will,’tis fit it should be so ” and darting furiously throughthe isle disappeared. He again entered dragging inSir Neale O’Donnel. ” Come on thou wretched authorof my bein?,—come see the devastation thou hastmade1'' and compelling him to approach the coffin,’’Look” he said. ” see where she bleeds beneath thvruthless arm ! Oh. my deserted love ! seest thee nothow she supplicates thy mercy ! Perdition ! but I willbe avenged !’ Saying this he rushed from the churchin a paroxysm of fury. Sir Neale in the meantime be¬came the very picture of horror, and his teeth struckeach other with dreadful violence, rile looked first uponthe coffin, then upon Farrell, and at length uttered anaudible curse on all around him.Scarce had he time to repeat his meditation when jagain his infuriated son rushed forward with the rapidityof the wind holding in each hand a horse pistol ’’Nowthen.” he roared ’’Maria, I come, and in my trainfo'lows that monster to whom your wrongs and mymiseries are att.'ibuatable 1 Now pride where is thytriumph ! now virtue where is thy reward ! At thatinstant he aimed the deadly weapon at the heart of SirNeale, who in the next was no more ! mun'ered by thehand of his only sen ! In the same instant the dread¬ful parricide discharged the other pistol at his ownhead, but by the interposition of a friendly arm thebarrel of the pistol was raised beyond its deadly level,and the wretched Arthur had not for that time the foul>in of suicide to add to that of the murder of the authorof his"beingDuring this agonizing scene, all around were com-plfetely spell bound not a word escaped their lips, nota motion denoted their existance ; but the moment SirNeale bit fiis parent dust their senses returned, andwith them a conviction of their own culpability in nothaving interposed their endeavour to prevent the catas¬trophe they had wittnessed. With one accord they nowiseizel the frantic Arthur, and with the utmost difficultyi.draged him from the church to the house of the clergy-iman of the parish, where he was bound with cords, andliphced in a dark room in the upper story, until suchStime as measures should be taken for a legal investiga-ition of the case.In the morning the door was gently opened by oneof the guards, out what was his astonishment to find hisprisoner flown. An alarm was immediately given, butino traces of him where to be found, and whether he wasfalive or dead was equally uncertain.No sooner had the events we have already recitedI taken place in Donnegal, than the news flew to Dublin,! where the absence of Sir Nefrle had been generally ob-0served. Amongst others wlio received this intelligencewith satisfaction, M'Pherson was foremost. NothingI could be more grateful to his treacherous heart, as alls fear of a discovery of his own nefarious practices werei| now at an end.I The impending hand of fate, however, hung over the|devoted Arthur, and the all-seeing eye of Providence"(ordained that a parricide should not thus calmly escapelithe punishment his crime so richly deserved. Every|i night while lying off St. George’s quay on the RiveriiLiffey, Arthur used to steal ashore, armed with a poig-ilnard and from his contiguity to Sackville Street, he|in.arfably directed bis steps to that spot, in the hopeof meeting the villain M'Pherson. While watchingbefore the door, lie heard a person ask for Mr M'Pher-dson, and received for answer from the servant, that hewas out, but would return before one. This was suffi¬cient for Arthur, and ere the morning dawned VPPher-son was no more. In the guiltv confusion of the mo¬ment instead of returning to the vessel, Arthur flewtowards the country, anti here again the finger of fatereemed to guide him to his destruction.The murder of M‘Pherson was soon discovered bysome passenger, who noticed him lying on the steps,24and gave tjie alarm. An inquiry was then made if anysuspicious character was seen about the house, when awatchman said, he had observed a man dressed in acountryman's garb, looking about for several nights be¬fore. The hue and cry being raised, a person was de¬tected going on board an American vessel, his clothes jmuch stained with blood, and a poignard in his pocket.It is needless to say this was the guilty Arthur. Hewas taken before a Magistrate, to whom he confessedhis rank ai d ciminality. At first it was supposed byhis friends, that, upon an investigation of the charges,it would be found ,tbey arose from insanity. 1 bis sup¬position was contrevened by Arthur himself, who con¬fessed his iniquities, and gloried in the murder ofM'Pherson. The sessions of oyer terminer being thensitting, he was taken thither the next day, and arraign¬ed for the murder of his father and M‘Pherson, to whichcharges he pleaded guilty. The recorder began hislast awful duty in pronouncing the sentence of the law,when the court were struck with honor, by a scene ofthe most heart-rending nature which was exhibited.The dock in which the prisoners stood was surround- jed by sharp iron pikes to prevent the escape of indivi¬duals. Within this stood Arthur patiently listening tothe pathetic address of the judge; the attention of thecourt was fixed upon him, and all were astonished atthe composure with which he listened to his doom.Suddenly the eyes of Arthur assumed a wildness, thatat once evinced the agitation of his mind, and in an in- 1stant he dashed his temple against the surroundingpikes, two of which penetrated his skull, and terminatedhis unhappy existence ! Thus ended the pride !—theglory !—and the misfortunes of the O’Donnels !The worthy Captain Farrell tlid not long survive thedeath of Ids Maria; he died universally lamented, andwas followed by the benedictions of all who knew him-