THENEW GAME at CARDS;0 K, APACK OF CARDSChangeJ into a Compleat and PerpetualA L M A N A C K.1 N ADIALOGUE BETWEEN A NOBLEMANAND tilS SER.V AN V.Firft. Shewinn the ufe of his ALMANACK by theQuarters, Months, Weeks and Days of the year.Secondly, Shewing how he converts his CARDS toa compieat Monitor or Prayer-Book:, with cu¬rious remarks on the KNAVE.The whole adapted to the Entertainment of the humortu:^ !as well as to the SatisfaBion of the Grave Learned^and Ingenious. The like never before publijbed.Printed by C. RANDAIA* >PACK OF CARDSturn’d intoAN ALMANACK.A Certain Nobleman, living in the city ofLondon, and having a confiderabte num¬ber of fervants, among them he had one inwhom he repofed a great deal of confidence ;one of his fellow fervants becoming jealous ofhim, went to make a complaint to his mailer,in order to get him turned out of his fervice ;and all he could impeach him with, was, thathe was a great gamefter at cards.At which the Nobleman being highly dif-pleafed, for gamefters were a fet of people,that he mortally hared and detefted, took thisopportunity to call him to account in orderto chaflife hini for the fame.Jack, fays the Nobleman, what's this Tveheard of you ?I can’t tell, pleafe ypur Lordfhlp, fays jack.What is it ?Why, fays the Nobleman, I’m informed youare a gamefter at cards.My Lord, fays jack., who was Jr that in¬formed you ? It was a falfe report, l wrfh Icould know who told you fo.*Tis no matter for that, fays the Nobleman,are you ready a gameftcr or not ?My Lord, fays jack, I am fo far from agamefter,C 3 )gamefter, I never play’d a card in my life, nordo I even know what a card means.Well, fays the Nobleman, I’m glad of thaton your account; however, we lhall call theinformer to appear, and know whether thefereports be true.y. With all my heart, my Lord, I am verywell fatisfied The Informer being called andcome to his Lord.Did you not tell me, lays the Nobleman,that.jack was become a great gamefter atcards ?Informer. I did indeed, my Lord.N. Why then you villain, fays the Noble¬man, hew dare you belie arty one ?J. I did not, my Lord.N. Why, Jack utterly denies it,I I don’t care my Lord, I will prove it tojiis face, that he is one of the greateft game-fters in London ; and to convince your Lord-fhip of the truth of what I fay, fearch him,and you’ll find a pack of cards in his pocket.Jack being fearch’d, the cards were haul’dout of his pocket.N. The Nobleman being in a fury, beganto ftamp and rage in a pailion about the room, lfaying, you audacious impudent rogue, how /dare you be guilty of fuch falfehood, before II my lace ? Did not you tell me you never (played at cards in your life, nor could nottell what a card meant, and now I find themin your pocket; you villain, feeing you areguilty, what reafon had you to deny it ? had.you confefled your fault, I would be apt toforgive |forgive you, but now I will puni/h you withthe utmoft feverity, not only becaufe you area gamefter, but becaufe you are a liar alio.J My Lord, fays Jack, your Lordlhipmay ufe your pleafure, but I hope, you willnot condemn me for a fault I am ncjt .guiltyof.N. You villain, what flronger evidencaneedthere be than the cards being found in yourpocket, how can you ffieak for yourLlf ?J. My Lord, if you call thefe cards, I donot; neither do I ufe them as fuch.N. Why, wbat do you call them then?y. My Lord, this is my Almanack.jV-. Your Almanack ! you dog, Did ever anyone make an Almanack of a pack of cards ?you villain; What fenfe could one make ofthem ?y. My Lord, I am no fcholar, and for thatreafon I ufe them as an Almanack to rule and*govern the year by.N. Well Jack, if fo, let me hear how youmanage your cards, and if I find you convertthem to a proper ufe, I will not in the leaftbe angry, but will freely forgive you.y. Why then my Lord, confider in the iftplace. There are four fuits in the cards, thatintimates the four quarters of the year ; thenas there are thirteen cards in each fuit, thatis juft: as many, as there are weeks in a quar¬ter ; there are alfo as many lunations in ayear as there are cards in a fuit; there aretwelve court cards which intimate the twelvemonths of the year, and the twelve figns of( 5 )the Zodiack through which the fun fleers itsdiurnal courfe during the fpace of one wholeyear j there are fifty-two cards in the pack,and that diredly anfwers the exad numberof weeks in a year; examine the cards a lit¬tle fur* er, and you will find as many fpotsin them as there are days in a year ; therebeing three hundred and fixty-five fpots in apack of cards, which is exadly the numberof days in a year, thefe I multiply by twenty-four, and then by iixty, which brings meI out the exad number of hours and minutess in a yearN. Very well Jack, I can't fay but you ap-L ply your Almanack exceeding well, but pritheet jack, do ymu make any further ufe of them ?y Yes, my Lord, a great deal., N. "Why, prithee Jack, what further ufc' do you make of them ?J. Why, my Lord, I fometiines convertCards into a Prayer-Book.N. A Prayer-Book, you villain, I am fare? if you make an Almanack of your cards, you. can never make a Prayer-Book of them.y. My Lord, I’ll make it appear ; you knowi I told you I could neither read nor write, forthat reafon, thefe cards anfwer my purpofi?|, as well as the bell Prayer-Book in England..N. Prithee Jack, let me hear it out, I likethe beginning very well.| y. Why then my Lord, when I look uponi theie Four fuits of the cards, they prefent to meII thefe i°ur principal religions that’s predomin¬ant in the world, viz. Chriftiarutv, JudahmMahc-( 5 )Mahometamfm and Paganifm, when I lookover the twelve court cards, they remind me ofthe twelve Patriarchs, from whom proceed thetwelve tribes of ffrael. the twelve Apoftles, al-fo the twelve articles of the Chridiait faith inw^hich I am bound to believe. When*"I lookon the King, it reminds me of the allegiancedue to his Majefly : wheft 1 look upon theQueen, it reminds me of the alleglahce due toher Majefcy ; then when I look upen the ten,it puts me in mind of the ten cities in theplains of Sodom and Gomorrah, deltroyedwith fire and brimftone from heaven, the tenplagues of Egypt, with which God offii&edthe Egyptians, when he brought the childrenof Ifrael out of that land ; alfo the ten com¬mandments, and the ten tribes of Ifrael whichwere cut, oflf for their wickednefs; when Ilook upon the nine, it puts me in mind of jthe nine Hierarchies, the nine mufes, and thenine noble orders amongfi: men ; when I lookupon the eight, it reminds me of the eightBeatitudes, the eight Altitudes, the eight per-fons laved in Noah's Ark, the eight perfonsmentioned in feripture to be releafed fromdeath to life ; when 1 lock upon the feven itputs me in mind of the feven adminiftering !fpirits that Hand before the throne of God,the feven feals with which the book of life isfealed, the feven angels with the feven vials,filled with the indignation of the Lord, whichthey were to plague the earth with, as men-tiontxl in the Apocalyps of St. John, the fe- 'ven liberal arts and feiences, given by Godfor ,'for the iiiftruttion of man, the feven wondersof the world, the feven planets that rule thefeven days of the week ; the fix puts me inmind of the fix petitions contained in .the i, Lord’s Prayer, the fix days of the week that ;I hate to work for my bread, and that I ami appointed to keep the feventh holy ; the fivei puts me in mind of the five fenfes given byGod to man, viz. hearing, feeing, feeling,tafting and fmelling ; the four puts me inmind of the four theological virtues, the fours Evangeiifls, the four laft things, Death. Judge¬ment, Heaven and Hell, and the four feafcnsinto which God hath divided and difpofedthe year, for the ufe of man, viz. Spring*Summer, Autumn and Winter: the threepats me in mind of the Trinity, in which <t are three diftinct Perfons co-equal and co-eter-1 nal, it alfo puts me in mind of the three daysthat Jonas was in the w'hale's belly, and thethree hours our Saviour hung upon the crofs,,| \ the three days that he lay interred in the bow-i els of the earth ; the two puts me in mind of; the two Tdlaments, the Old and New, con-' !I taining the Law and Gofpel, the two con-; I trary principles firugglipg in man, viz Virtueand Vice ; then my Lord,' when 1 look uponthe ace, it puts me in mind, I’ve only' one.God to adore and ferve, one faith to believe,■ one truth to pra&ife, one fcaptifm to cleanfeme from original fin, and only one mailer to:■ ferve and obey.N, Very well, Jack, I gan’t fay but you coq.vert your card? to a very good ufe, hut nowI per-( 8 )1 perceive there is one paitkular card in thepack you have not explained to me.y. What k that my Lord ?N. Jack, when you were Ihuffling the cards,you paft from the Queen to the ten and laidby the Knave, doth it put you in mind of no¬thing ?y. That is right, my Lord I had like tohave forgot, when I look upon the Knave, itputs me m mind of your Lordlhip N. What villain, do you count me a Knavebefore my face ?y. No my Lord, you mifappiehend me j Imean your Lordfliip’s informer.JV. If fo Jack, 1 freely forgive you j ’tlspretty well turned.On which the Nobleman was fo well pleaf-with the ready turns of wit and humourwhich he found in jack, that he preferr’dhim to the highefl place in his fervice, dou¬bled his wages, and di{'charged the informer,W'ho foon alter died, and the following Epi¬taph was fet over his grave.EPITAPH.<?TAT, Reader, and pifs here, for it is /aid,° Under this Jlone a fly informer's laid.Who Jludied nothing all his life throughout, lBut mifchief till bis own dejh udion wrought, >His neighbour's ill was what he chiefly fought. JIf Heav'n be pleas'd, when Mortals ccafe to fin ;Pf ifell be pleas'd, when Villains enter in ;Qr Earth be pleas'd, when it entombs a Knave,Sure all are pleas'd—-the Rogue is in his grave<FINIS.