Saturday NightA DIALOGUEBETWEENL Wm. READ Y § ROBERT WISE,ATI THE PAY TABLE.TO WHICH IS ADDED, THEToper’s Tale,OVER BISJUG of ALE ;Being a particular account of a merry day’sdrinking, with all the circumstances of theRobbery,.and a full History of the Battle.AYR:Pi inted by D. Macarter & Co.A DIALOGUE, 8$c.William Ready. WELL, Bob, suppose wehave the otb^r pot, to drink success to trade ;rnaster seems in good spirits, and it is but justgone ten; and besides, we can iie an hour lon¬ger for it in the morning.Robert Wise. No; I cannot stay any longer:and as for the other pot, it is that which doesall the mischief; for I have often seen, that asfast as the beer juns in, common sense, runsout, until a man becomes as light, and noi&y,and full of vaporous fumes, as the barrel he hasjust emptied. Besides, I have got a wife andfamily to provide for at home, and it will beeleven o’clock now before we have made ourmarketing. A s to drinking success to trade, Ithink trade is likely to flourish most, when theleast drink is going forward. And now we areupon the subject, I wish our master would paythe men at home, and not bring them to thepublic house; they can find the way there fastenough without that. This is the worst faultI have to find with your master—he pays hismen so late on the Saturday night, that onefinds it hard work to get one’s little matters allsettled, without breaking in upon the sabbath-day. I have often told him so, but he does notseem to take much concern about it.Wm. Breaking in upon the Sabbath-day !—Why I always thought that Sunday was intend¬ed as a dav of rest and recreation. We are■-"not obliged to be up at six o'clock to work -.and what is the odds of having a few mattersto do on the Sunday morning ? I think, Bob,you have been among the religious folks, andthg-y are making you as stiff and precise as5 themselves. I hope you are not going to turnMethodist—they are a set of unhappy people,and want to make every body as melancholy asthey are. I was just going to ask you to joina pleasant party7, to take a little recreation onthe water to-morrow. There is Sam Flight,andhis wife—Tom Worthy, and his sweet-heart—me and my wife—you and yours—but Isuppose, from what you have just now said a-bout the Sunday, it is of no use asking you.I Rob. None at all. You must know thereare many strong reasons why I cannot consentto violate and profane the Lord’s day.Win Violate and profane the Lord's day!—What! To take a little innocent recreation af¬ter slaving hard all the week—do you call thisviolating and profaning the Lord’s day?Rob. Indeed I do ; and I dont know how anyone can call it otherwise, who thinks rightly-on this matter. I will give you some of myreasons for saying so, if you will hear them.Wm. I should like to hear what mighty rea¬son you can give, why a man should not takea little pleasure, only because it happens to beon a Sunday.Rob. Well then ymu must know, first of all,that the Sabbath-day was intended by the Al-mighty, to be a day of rest and cessation fromlabour, as we read Genesis ii. 3. “ And Godblessed the seventh,day, and hallowed it; be¬cause that in it he had rested from all his work.”Now what you propose as recreation, is in fact,r4jiarder work than any we do all the week; and,for my part, I have no notion of rowing in aboat foi hours together, for the sake of rest &recreation, and to volunteer myself to the toil,of a galley slave, after slaving hard all the week,as you called it. Besides, I shudder when Ihear of those awful events which very frequent¬ly occur on the Sabbath day. It was but yes¬terday that I read in the paper of two partieswho were launched into eternity while theywere taking their pleasure on the water lastSunday. A bad preparation, surely, for sucha change. Besides, you know it is riot morethan three years ago when a party of fifteenyoung men and women were every one drown¬ed, and the minister of our town preached amost affecting discourse on the evil and dan¬ger of Sabbath-breaking. He handled his sub*ject in such a manner, as made the tears tri-cie down from every eye ; and, in some par¬ticular parts, the sighs and sobs of the con¬gregation almost stopped the minister in hissermon. I shall not forget it the longest dayI live. I have had enough of Sabbath-break¬ing ever since. And then, to say no more a-bout the labour and the danger of such sport,it cannot be done without money ; and a manspends as much in this way on a Sunday, aswould almost keep his family half the week—besides coming home at night with weary bones,fa guilty conscience, and an empty pocket intothe bargain.Wm. Well, I see ’tis of no use-arguing withyou. I shall go and see if they have spoke9for the boat, and got all tilings ready ; for wemean to start soon in the morning.Nay, man, but stay a minute or fwp5longer, for I have got another reason .strongerthan all the rest put together ; and that, is, youhave the commandments of God against you.He has said, “ Remember the Sabbath-day tokeep it holy ; six days shalt thou labour, anddo all thy work ; but the seventh is the sabbathof the Lord thy God : you may read more ofit in Exodus xx. 8, 9, 10. In Exodus xxxi.I 14, Jehovah speaks thus : “ Ye shall keep myI Sabbath, for it is holy unto you ; every onethat defileth it, shall be put to death.” Andthis law was actually put in force among theIsraelites, as we read in Numtiers xv. 32, 34,35, 36. “ And while the children of Israel *were in the wilderness, they found a man thatgathered sticks upon the Sabbath-day ; am!I they put him in ward, because it was not de-i dared what should be done to him ; and the| Lord said unto Moses, “ The man shall sure-I ly be put to death, and all the congregationI shall stone him with stones, without the camp ;I and all the congregation brought him without:| the camp, and stoned him with stones, andI he died ; as the Lord commanded Moses.”—1 Well might the Apostle say, “ It is a fearfulI thing to fall into the hands of the living God.”II Now as to the manner of keeping the Sabbath,I will just mention one text of Scripture more;j and' this, as well as all the rest, is point bankI against you. Isaiah Iviii. 13, It. “ If you’i turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, fromdoing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call1 the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord,i honourable; and shalt honour him, not doingthine own ways, nor finding thine own plea¬sures, nor speaking thine own words, then shalt1 thou delight thyself in the Lord, and I will6cause thee to ride upon the high places of the |earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Ja- Icob, thy father ; for the mouth of the Lord ihath spoken itf” Now, if these reasons are. rnot enough to satisfy you, I will add another.- IJVffi. Another ! no, no: I don’t want any imore reasons. But give over this sort of 1preaching, and say you will go. I'll warrant jiyou jt will be a fine day, and we shall be very i|.happy.Rnb. No, William, I cannot go with you,for surel am, there is no happiness w here theblessing of God is not ; much less is happiness Ito be found in the way of transgression, for Hthe Bible says, “ The way of transgressors is 1hard.” But as I dare not spend the Sunday 9in your way, let me invite you to spend it in ithe way that Christian people do; and, to en-1courage you, I wrill say, in the language of 1Moses, to his father-in-law, ’Numbers x. 23 |.—V2. “ We are journeying to the place, ofwhich the Lord, sard, I will give it you ; comethou with us, and we will do thee good: andit shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be,'that, what goodness the Lord shall do untous, the same will we do unto thee.”IVm. I begin to think—indeed I have thoughtr so ever since my good old mother died, that it isnot quite right to neglect Church on the Sun¬day ; and I must honestly tell you, I have,more than ouce or twice, had some dismal pangsof conscience, when, in spite of all my endea-vours to forget it, I have thought upon the fool-; ihh manner jn which I have spent the past day; Iand then, on Monday morning, I feel as if eve¬ry tiling was wrong about me. 1 come to workwith a heavy heart, w-hile you appear as blithe7as a lark, and as happy as a prince—tell me,Bob, how is it you pass your Sundays ?Rob. I’ll do that with pleasure ; and if youcan produce but half as many good reasons a-gainst my way of spending the Sabbath, as Ihave against yours, then I’ll saj- ho more.—.Well, then, you must know, that when Satur¬day evening comes Win. Saturday evening !—Why, shopmate,I asked you how you employed the Sunday—and not what you do on the Saturday. Doesyour Sunday begin on the Saturday ? Thisis making a long Sunday of it, indeed.Rob. I always consider the Saturday evening■ as the preparation for the Sabbath ; and as tothe length of it, it always dies too fast for me—The gladness of that happy day,My soul would wisli.it long to stay.Wm. Well then, on Saturday .eve ning—what/ then ?Rob. Why then my wife and l ittle ones are ailas busy as if they were getting ready to go tocourt the next morning; indeed, I always countthe. Sabbath as the grand court day of the Kingr.oi kings ; for as the hymn says—|‘ The'king-himself, comes near,And feasts Ins saints to day ;Hero we may sit, and see him here,And love, and praise, and pray.”RThe children’s play-tliings are all put away shoes all cleaned—shirts and things all airedand laid ready for the morning—house madeTidy—a id my wife waiting till I co/ne home,to bring her my wages—and I must be goingsoon, else she will begin to think somethinghas happened.IVm. Yes; I always thought your wife oneof a thousand—I wish I could get my old wo¬man to be as notable as your’s ; however, Imust not find fault with her, I might easilyhave found a much worse.Well, then, as I said, all things “beingrc •• J; on Saturday night, we offer up our praisesto ilmighty God for the mercies of the pastweek, and pray, that, with the light of the com¬ing day, the light of his countenance may shineupon our souls.‘‘ Safely through another week,God has brought us on our way;Let us now a blessing seekOn th’ approaching Sabbath-day ,Day of all the week the best,Emblem of eternal rest."Then we go to bed, rest our weary limbs, andalways welcome the opening of another Sab¬bath-day.Why this is making the most of a goodthing ; but don’t you lie an hour or two long¬er in the morning, after the labour of the week ?Rob. As to tliat, I’ll teil you. I rise at myusual hour, read the Bible alone, and pray tothe Lord, that we may “ begin, continue, andend,” the sacred day in the fear of God.JVm. I am afraid you have got too much re¬ligion for me; I shall not much like your way.I always thought, if I went to church once ona Sunday, I did my duty quite well-enough.Rub. Too much religion I That is impossible,9if a man's heart is in the right place. If so hethat he has tasted that the Lord is gracious,he will be coming to him ; and, as a new-bornbabe, desire the sincere milk of the word, thathe may grow thereby, as the Apostle Peterspeaks. Too much religion ! Why, religionis happiness; and you never yet knew any onehave too much happiness.Wm. Well, after the morning prayer andreading the Bible, what then ?Rob. Why, then I come down, and find thechildren all clean, wife ready with the break¬fast ; and as soon as that is over, we preparefor family worship, which we begin with a hymn;the little ones all join—I set the tune, and mySarah has got a pretty voice. We often begin"the Sabbath with" Welcome, sweet day of rest,Tijat saw the Lord arise ;Welcome to this reviving breast,And these rejoicing eyes.”Then we all kneel down, and pray for a Sab¬bath day’s blessing, never forgetting to com¬mend our minister to the grace of God; thatlie would be pleased to give him the tongue ofthe learned, that he may know how to speak aword in season to him that is weary.Wm. I should think you have had prayingand singing enough for one day. I should beprayed and sung to death, with so much reli¬gion.-Rob. Enough ! man. The best o'f it is notyet begun. There is the public worship of thesanctuary ; and when the hour arrives, mymy heart is ready to cry out with David, ‘‘I10was glad when they said unto me, Let us go-unto the house of' the Lord. How amiableare thy tabernacles, O tord of hosts, my Kingand my God ! A day in thy courts is betterthan a thousand.” It would do your heartgood to see our good minister go up the pulpitstairs ; he looks like a man that is going toplead with God on behalf of his people. Afterhe has offered up a silent prayer, he looksround upon the congregation with so much af¬fection, that you would think we were all hisown children. He is always upon the onegrand subject, as lie calls it—Jesus Christ, andhim crucified. That was his first text, whenhe first came to us. - “I am determined notto know any thing among you, save JesusChrist, and him crucified.” 1 Cor. ii. 2. Andhe has kept good his determination ever since.Wm. 1 think I should not much like yourminister. According to your account, he isalways harping upon one string.Rob. Harping upon one string ! Yes, truly ;it-is a string on which he plays a thousand de¬lightful tunes. Christ, and him crucified !—Why, man, this is the music of heaven, and nowonder it should gladden the hearts of sinnersupon earth. I could listen to it for ever. Letme tell you, Bill ; you and I are sinners, and"we stand in need of a Saviour : we are great isinners, and we nged a great Saviour : now,just such a Saviour is Jesus Christ, as St. Paulsays—“ this is a faithful saying, and worthyof all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came intothe world to save sinners, St whom I am chief.”(1 Tim. i. 15.) It is the blood of Christ thattakes away our sins ; it is the righteousness ofChrist that justifies us before God ; it is tha-j'1ITSpirit of Christ that makes us hoiy ; it is theconsolation of Christ that gives cojnfort in af¬fliction ; it is the grace of Christ that supportsus when we come to die ; it is the smile ofChrist that gives boldness in the day of judg¬ment ; and it is the presence of Christ thatmakes heaven the blessed place it is. In short.“ Christ is all and in all,” as the Apostle has itin another place.I confess I never heard so much aboutChrist before. I always thought that if a mandid as well as he could, he need not concernhimself so much about Christ and religion.Ho6. I thought so once, until I heard ourgood minister preach from this text, “ For asmany as are of the works of the law are underthe curse; for it is written Cursed is every onethat continueth not in all things which are writ¬ten in the book of the law, to do them.” (Gal.iii. 10.) I then found myself to be a grilty,condemned sinner. I began to pray.for mercy,and ! trust I have not prayed in vain ; forChrist says,' “ All that the Father giveth me,shall come unto me ; and him that cometh un¬to me, I will in no wise cast out.”IF>«. I think I should like to hear your mi¬nister preach ; but surely you don’t think therecan be any harm in taking a walk into thefields in the afternnon, after going to churchin the morning.fZoi. Why as to that—Now suppose youcome to shop on Monday morning, and worktill twelve o’clock, and then go and work foranother master the rest of the day—would thisbe doing your duty to your own master ?—Would he be pleased with it ? Would he notjustly scotch you in your reckoning, when Sa-iurday night came ? So our blessed Lord says,“No man can serve two masters; for eitherhe will hate the one and love the other, or elsehe will hold to the one and despise the other.Ye chnnot serve God and'Mammon. (Matt,vi. 24.) Now I love my divine Master, andnever think I can do enough for hinr. I lovehis service also ; it is “ ptyfect freedom.”Wm. Well I think I should like to spend aSunday with yoh, but I can’t to-morrow ; theparty is all made up except yrM; and as youwon’t go, we must either get somebody else, orgo as we are.Rob. My dear fellow, let me persuade younot; you seem to be somewhat convinced ofthe evil ef Sabbath-breaking, and I am sureyou will not be happy. Your conscience hasoften warned and checked you: and you willbe sinning against light, and against thisfriendly caution. What, if God should takeyou away with a stroke , you have no securityagainst it, and especially in the way of disobe¬dience ; for, “ he that being often reproved,and hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be de¬stroyed, and that without remedy. (Prov.Wm. Why you seem to have all the argu¬ment on your side. Well, it I thought theywould not laugh and call me a Methodist, lwould give it up, and go along with you.Rob. Laugh at you, and call you a Metho¬dist ! Why let them laugh, and let them call.So the gay pleasure-takers might have laughedat Noah while he was preparing the ark ; butthe flood came, and drowned them all. andlaughier was turned into bitter crying whenthey found themselves shut cut. This might13have been the case, also, with the scoffers whodwelt in guilty Sodom ; but the same day thatLot left the place, it rained fire and brimstonefrom heaven, and destroyed them ail.JVm. Well, I’ll consider of it.Rob. I hope you will, and may God enablei you to determine on the side of Christ, andyour immortal soul; this is true wisdom ; andyou will find her ways are ways of pleasant¬ness, and all her paths are paths of peace. ButI must be going ; I have told you but half thedelightful whrk of the Sabbath-day ; come andprove the rest. I will only just say, the otherhalf of the day becomes sweeter and sweeteras one enters into the spirit of it; and I some¬times think, if there is so much comfort in theworship of God on earth, then what mustI heaven be!u Oh ! the delights, the heavenly jC'ys,The transports of the place ;Where Jesus sheds the brightest beamsOf his o’erfiowing grace.Now, compare your way of spending the Sab¬bath with mine, and let any man of commonsense be the judge, and I’ll venture to say hewill give it in my favour. You - come homehalf worn out with recreation, as you call it—money all spent—wife perhaps out of humour—the children cross and rieepy—and whenyou lie down at night, you cannot ask God’sblessing on the past day, but are obliged toskulk to bed like a thief that is afraid to betaken before his Judge. But in my way ofspending the Sabbath, our bodies are restedfrom the toils of the past week, our spirits arerefreshed by the blessing of God ; it makethrich, and addeth no sorrow therewith ; and wecan lie down at night witli a cheerluljheart, ex¬pressing our gratitude to our Heavenly Fatherin devout adoration, and songs of praise.“ Come bless the Lord, whose love assignsSo sweet a rest to wearied minds ;Provides an qntepast of heaven,And gives this day the food of seven. •“ O, that our thoughts and thanks may rise,As grateful incense to the skies;And draw from heaven that sweet repose,Which none but he that feels it, knows.“ This heavenly calm within the breastIs the dear pledge of glorious rest,Which for the Church of God remains.The end of cares, the end of pains.“ In holy duties let the day,' In holy pleasures, pass away ;How sweet a Sabbath thus to spend,In hope of one that ne’er shall end.THETOPER’S TALE,OVER. HISJUG OF ALE.Halloo, whoop, my brave boys! who lovefrolic anfl fun,To sit all day boozing, and bask in the sun !Let him come at my whistle, & seat himself hereLike a brave jolly feliow, and toss off his beer.’Twas just at the door of the alehouse he stood,fAt the old Cat & Bagpipes, there close by thewood ;You go fast by the church, and turn down the •left hand,Just beyond it the stocks and the whipping¬post stand.’Twas on the long bench there, beneath thc-old oak,Whose shade’s so. refreshing, Tom Toper thusspoke :Snip heard him, the tailor, just over the way,And wag down in a twinkling to hear him so say;§ That’s right brother Snip, here together we’ll.stitch,It you’ll cut into tune, into rhyme I will hitch ;So let the dull souls on the shop-board seekwealth,Whilst that you and I hiccup each other’s goodhealth.Soon join’d them the blacksmith, with his sooty Iface,Coming just for a quartern t’inspirit his case ;He had left the ho; iron quite snug in the fire,To steal out for a quaff of his own heart’s desire.We three jolly topers—ha, ha, there are four,For Lapstone, the cobler,- see yawns at the doorHe’s coining straight tow'rds us, tho’ hardlyalive.And bringing old carpenter John to make five.So these five jolly fellows sat down to their alCfAnd they drank till the fumes began much toprevail; *For as liquor comes in all the senses go out,And the giddy brain reels with the roaring androut.First Snip began telling a wonderful jokeHow he bilk’d his last landlord—when just hespoke,A. grim-looking constable tipp’d him the wink,And haul’d him to jail in the midst of his drink.He was main loth to go, & he furiously swore ;Then he blubber’d and sneak’d at the sight, of.his score;Twenty-seven and eightpence for Whitsuntidefun>Arid a crown for broke windows and mischiefthen dene.Indeed the next parish their compliments sent,In the name of Black Sue, on a joyful event,’Twas a bastard, the fruit of a drunken carouse;It was high time to marry, and make her hisspouse.This indeed damp’d their frolic, but yet a newpet, * .Rais’d the spirits again of each dizzy-bram <1Mors mellow they grew, and most friendly andwarm,And swore in good fellowship could be no harm.Then half-naked Patty, the blacksmith’s sweetchild,With pale hollow cheeks, came and tenderlysmil’d ;And begg’d of her daddy to come make an end.Of the horse-shoe, for Roger, their very goodfriend.The man wants his horse, and lie vov/s he mustgoTo thg new blacksmith’s shop, if you make himwait so;And my weakly sick, mother lies crying in bed.For the price of the horse-shoe, to buy us somebread.I care not, not I, for the horse or the man,I’ll empty my jug first, I vow, if 1 can ;Let him shoe him himself, says he, here I shallsit ; , #So he blunder’d out nonsense, -and thought itwas wit.Go, go, tell your mother I’m coming, and soIs Christimas, my darling, as you and I know ;I’m in ; if I stir while I’ve hat, wig, or coat,May I bind the next horse-shoe tight round myown throat.The poor little Patty.went sorrowful home,To tell her sad mother her dad would not come;The ebbings of life silent sunk from her heart,And she just blest her babes, ’ere her soul coulddepart..The drunkard—the murderer—rather I call,The sot who can guzzle time, money and all 118He swallows the clothes, health, and comfort,I think,Nay, the lives of his family down with hisdrink.But sleeping and snoring with feverish head,Was Lapstone the cobler, there down in theshade ;The shade was quite cool, and his sleep wasquite sound,The next day all his limbs with rheumatics werebound.Three months-he lay groaning upon a sick bed,Nor could stir hand or foot, or lift up his dullhead;His family starve, or the workhouse may find,For no benefit-club drinking Sam ever join'd.But tippling at length ' v'er each one prevail’d.Until drowsy & stupid their poor senses fail’d;And tho’ dreaming of drinking, they doz’d onthe seat,Till the breeze of the evening abated the heat.Twas a. good opportunity—sin begets sin,For a traveller who saw what a state they were inSaw a hole in John’s pocket too, whence therewas shownA good new canvas bag, which he took for hisown.Now in this was his rent, forty shillings & more,’Twas the price of his wife’s cow he sold justbefore: ^So he paid, dearly paid, for his mug of good ale,With distress from his landlord, and 6 monthsin jail.But when he awake he began t’ enquireFor hisbacco box new', just to light a tresh fire,19. Ke would warm his red nose with a whiff anda puff,Then he found that his bag was gone off, sureenough.He found he-had lost it; full well did he searchEv’ry pocket he had, for quite left in the lurch,He knew that his landlord no mercy w ould show,He had promis'd so often, and fail’d him also.From vexing, and filming, and grumbling, andsuch,' He began to grow warm at his losing so much.And charg’d all his neighbours, goad fellowsand friends,With playing a trick, just to serve their ownends.His fellows were rous’d by his stvearing soloud,And the neighbourhood gather’d all round ina crowd; 1.Tom Toper declar'd w ith a laugh, and a bawd,-He’d seen nothing—indeed he could scarcesee at all.. John lov'd a joke well but not at his own cost,Tho’ ’twas no time to laugh when-so much hehad lost,Curs’d and swore like a madman, and told Tomhe lied,■ For ’twas he filch d his money, while drunk byhis side,• He thought so—he know so—he always shouldthink ;And ’twas mean, so it was, thus to cheat himin drink ;; Nay, he never could bear it, so knock’d himdown sly,To prevent him from standing sp stout in a lie.20Tom was a good fellow, nor quarrell'd inale,But if challeng'd in earnest, would never turntailSo he jumps him up quickly, and soon with ablowEaid the carpenter John where himself hadlaid low.Fair, fair, cried the neighbours, let’s make agood ringLet them fight it out stoutly, twill be just thething;So at him, good fellow, was echoed all round,And they stript ’em, and clapt ’em, and mea¬sur’d the ground.Now strike him, friend John, like a nail on thehead,Now froth him at top, Tom; h;« own party said:That’s right, hit him hard, there just over thescull,* He’ll spin out like a barrel unhoop’d, he’s sofull.I,ike ninerpins the tumbl'd and roll’d in the mud,Their bodies all bruises, their faces all blood,Till a dext’rous aim’d blow of Tom Toper’s atlast.His friend John on the’ temple, and settl’d himfast.Down he slump'd like a wool-sack, or lump of ’pig lead,, Unsens’d in a moment, ’twas thought he wrasdead ;The women all scream’d, the men cried givehim air,Box’d each other, and quarreli’d, to prove itall fair.. 21r Just then liis wife enter’d, a child at her breast.And three rather older amid the crowd prest;Oh where is my husband! my daddy, they cry.Oh dear they have kill’d him! Im sure he willdie.Ah! liquor and drinking, the wife feebly said,Then dropt her sweet baby, and fainting shelaidAcross her fall’n husband, and clasping himround,In shiv’ring hysteric fits beat the hard ground !i Tom Toper’s big boy heard the fray and thenoise, 'And left his chuck farthing among idle boys ;lie lov’d to play truant, he ne’er went to school,; But loiter’d and. snor’d out the day like a fool.I He heard there was liquor, that some had toomuch ;He lov’d to be fawning and coaxing with such ;Taught to drink by his dad, from a babe hewas spoii’d,Did the same as old Tom did, his father’s ownchild.With his face full of glee, at his father he leer’d,Cock’d his eye with a squint at the blood onlus beard ;Cries out, dad here’s y%ur health, as he tookup the can,full of courage and liquor, my dad is the man.The father who stiff, and full dirty, and sore,Had began now to breathe, bad bespoke a potmore*;I He just ey’d its full froth, and was tipping thewink,■ When he furious cried out, as he saw his soudrink—■*>0I will have my pot, said he, giving a pull,•Tis mine and I’ll drink ft, altho' I’m so full;•Give the devil his due, were the words that hesaid,' So he drank off the liquor—and tumbled downdead!Ah, how silly is the drinker,Swallowing more than he can need !.To the eye of every thinker,He must seem a fool indeed.So he hurts his constitution,Adding drunkenness to thirst ;All for want of resolution,Not to yield to drink at first.Was he us’d to work and labour,Honest industry his pride ?Idle now, a wretched neighbour.H urts himself and all beside.Has he wife of love and beauty,Yielding him a plenteous share ?Soon he fails ip.ev’ry duty,Nor for dearest ties will care.Has he children young and tender,Sweetly prattling on his knee ?Nought but curses does he renderTo his trembling family.Business must decay and fail him,None a drunkard will employ ;No disease that e’er could ail him,Could so sure and quick destroy.23''Fair Religion mourns and warns him,Virtue, goodness, dee away ;|j Poes God love the wretch ?—he scorns himFor a drunkard does not pray.I] O ! what shame to see a creaturei Found in shape so much divine,Ruin’d and.debas’d each feature,L Swoin and bloated like the.swine.II Purple, crimson, yellow pimples,[ - Scar his face and horrify ;'Where’s the healthy red, the dimplesWhich a-fore-time blest the eye ?I If his body is so ehangcd,I All his dignity decay’d ;j II ow' deform'd his soul, estranged,Sinful, weak, and helpless made.j Flow debas’d that noble reason,Which to worship God was giv’n :I Foul the drunkard's sin, ’(.is treason,And will cast him out of heaven.; How deform’d his best affections,Warp’d from heaven to dying earth •.Can he bear his own reflectionsOn his base, his sordid mirth ?—Shall we laugh at Heathen wretchesRowing to some idol queer ?What’s the drunkard’s god ?—he fetchesForth his foaming mug of beer ?Here he truly sacrifices,Health, and wealth, and self, and friendsThis the only god he prizes,Here how slavishly he bends.2iBut can this his idol save him.When he comes to dying bed :When the devil’s wait to have him,Watching round his guilty head ?What new plea, what strong petition.Can he urge to stop his doom :Vain his cries, and vain his wishing,When to judgment he shall come.Devils that have urg’d his sinning,Prais’d the foaming liquor well,Soon with yells, and ghastly grinning,Down shall plunge him deep in hell.Stop, then, drinker ! dash the liquor,Dash it from thee on the ground ;Not a serpent stings the quicker.None with viler poison’s found.•Stop there ! turn thine eyes to heaven,Seek the loving dying Lord ;Pray to have thy sins forgiven,And thy sin-lost soul restor’d.Grace can heal thy sin-sick .nature,Give thee pow’r thy lusts to quell; - , [IMake thee quite another creature,Make thee whole, and keep thee well.Hear the word the Gospel sends thee, f I“ Laden sinner, come to meIf the Saviour mild befriends thee,Sav'd for ever thou shalt be.ITo be had of 1). Macarter & £o. the Religious RepnEry, publishing in, Numbers, Id each, containing dill'• ture and advantages of Sincerity, Humility, Fcrvjtand Faith ; of Integiity, Fidelity, Sobriety, and IfTemperance j of Modesty,- Chastity, Diligence^good order.