ISii£3HISTORYOFt H11 ^ ?§?§©Si uwUS4ywtj4-^Kid*?SIR WILLIAM WALLACE, IfjtJ?THE RENOWNEDSCOTTISH CHAMPION.•jt?I •' > JbKIMX !»' r ■ ;-r •I,OK XHE POOK^J rrEB»:GTYSGO/A •r*‘i"S\ i> M ■ »* /r’OSCOXXI8H CHYKBIOH ;. :g1HE BEK0&S1EDil WWVtv i•• v:.2BT>- -J*»• ■'}■ ;(A^ -j-ImihistoryOF; SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.j It was in times of the deepest calamity, when| Scotland as it were wTas overwhelmed with afflio| tion, and sinking- into the deepest despair, by the«, base conduct of an ignominious monarch, thatj: Scotland was betrayed into the hands ot the King1 of England, who put Scotland in a state of cruel-I ty and oppresion, and sent blood and carnage overI the land that Divine Providence, raised up Sir‘j William Wallace, for a deliverer of his country,| from the slavish submission to the English mon-ijarch, and a champion to avenge her wrongs.This remarkable hero was the son of £ir^Malcolm Wallace, the proprietor of a small estatej called Ellerslie, near Paisley, in the county of\ Renfrew. The exact period of his birth is not| known ; but it is supposed that at the time of hisfather’s death, who was killed at the battle ofLoudon Hill, in 1293, he was about fifteenyears of age. His mother, after this disastrous|evcnt, fled with her son to the house of annuncle, where Wallace lived between two and threeByears, when a boy he had witnessed the se-4curity and happiness of his country during thereign of Alexander III, and now when she wasdegraded and oppressed by the tyrant Edward,his countrymen despoiled of their goods, andtheir wives and daughters wantonly insulted byhis English followers, the contrast was of such anature as to arouse the keenest feelings in a heartwhich from its earliest stirrings was animated bya love of liberty to his country, which nothing butdeath could extinguish.Whilst brooding In secret over his country’swrongs, an event occurred which stimulated thepowers of his mind and body into active existenceand for ever banished all hope of conciliation be¬twixt him and the enslavers of his country. Hehad formed an attachment to a beautiful youngwoman in the town of Lanark, and when passing-through that burgh, well armed and somewhatrichly dressed, he was recognised by a troop ofEnglish soldiers, who surrounded and insultedhim. Wallace nt first would have prudently gotclear of their insolence; but a contemptuous strokewhich one of them made again&t his sword, pro¬voked him to draw, and he laid the culprit deadat his feet. A tumult now at'o&e, and, almostoverpowered by numbers, he escaped with diffi¬culty into the house of his sweetheart, and throughit, by a back passage, into the neighbouring1twoods. For facilitating has escape, the uofor.tunate girl was seized next day by the Englishsheriff, and with inhuman cruelty condemned andexecuted. But Wallace’s revenge, when he heardof her unmerited fate, was as rapid as it was stem.That very night he collected thirty faithful andpowerful partisans, who, entering the town whenall were in their beds, reached the sheriff’s lodg¬ings in silence. It was a building constructed ofwood, and the sheriff’s apartment communicatedwith the street by a high stair. Up this Wallacerushed at midnight, and, beating down the door,presented himself in full armour, and with hisnaked weapon, before the affrighted officer, whoasked him whence he came, or who he was ? “ X4.' E '*)*/' XwsliJLTUl s/lU IVam William Wallace,” he replied, “ whose lifeyou spught yesterday : and now thou shalt an¬swer me for my poor maiden’s death.” Withthese words he seized his naked victim hy the-,;throat, and passing his sword through his body,cast the bleeding wretch down the stair into thestreet, where he was immediately slain. He then r>speedily withdrew with his followers into tfoiwcxods which surrounded the town. For this dar¬ing act of retaliation he was accused by the g®v-erment of murder, and sentenoe of of proscriptionand outlawry being passed against him, ai* im- .mediate and eager pursuitwasadopted. Wallace,6lidwever, was intimately acquainted with thecountry, and found little difficulty in defeatingevery effort for his apprehension.Before proceeding further, however, in the de¬tail of Wallace’s personal history, and in orderbetter to understand the narrative which follows,it becomes necessary to take a short review ofstate of matters at that time in Scotland, andthe course of events which led to the series oftransaction^.Upon the death of Alexander III. a numberof candidates appeared for the Scottish crown;and among others were Robert Bruce and JohnBaliol, both descendants of David I. The rightof the former was certainly the preferable one;but when the right of succession was not dis¬tinctly settled, the claims of both had supporters.It was at last proposed, to refer their claims toEdward I. of England, one of the most powerfulmonarchs of that day. Edward, who had longcherished ambitious designs upon Scotland, wasdelighted with this proposal, and by way of ad¬justing the matter, which he now affected to lookupon with a great deal of solemnity, summonedthe Scottish nobles to Norham, where, he soonprevailed on all present, not excepting Bruce andBaliol, to acknowledge him Lord Paramount,and swear fealty to him in that character.7It wns on tills occasion maintained by Edward,that the English monarchs were the natural andi acknowledged superiors of the kingdom of Scot-i land, which only an appanage of the Englishcrown; and that at different periods this righthad been authenticated by the homage of thef Scottish princes. Now the fact was, that theseacts of fealty were only rendered for possessionsof the Scottish sovereigns lying on the northernj frontier of the English dominions. These terri-torics, from their being situate on the thresholdof the two kingdoms, had formed the theatre ofmany sanguinary conflicts; and had at divers timeschanged masters, till they came at last to be con¬sidered as belonging to Scotland. For thesepossessions it had been the practice of some, ofthe Scottish kings, at different periods, to dohomage, to those of far inferior note,, for tracts ofland acquired in this manner ; and instances werenot awanting of the English monarchs themselves,rendering that sort of subjection to the kings ofFrance. It was now contended, however, byEdward, that the homage or fealty on these oc¬casions had been done for the entire kingdom ofScotland.This was the first step in Edward’s ambitiousviews. Under pretence of transmitting the fullauthority into the hands of the successful can-didate, ije next demanded the temporary pob^s-i!sion of all the fortresses of the kingdom : which,,rstrange to say, were passively yielded into his|thands, with the exception of the castles of Dun-|idee and Forfar, then held by Gilbert de Um-|hfraville, who refused compliance with this mi- |looked-for mandate, unless 4 written indemnityshould be given at the hand of the Scottish no¬bles, freeing him from all share of blame* I'heclaim of Baliol was at last, 17th December 1292,declared the preferable one, and that personage,having again acknowledged the English king ashis liege lord, was placed by him on the Scottishthrone.The insults and degradation to which he wassubjected at last roused even the complying spiritof Baliol, and in the bitterness of his squl hecould not help communicating his feelings to thenobles of his court, who, at his instigation, now ,unanimously disclaimed their hasty allegiance tothe English monarch. “ The silly traitor,” ex¬claimed Edward in derision, when Baliol’s re¬fusal to attend his summons was communicatedto him, “ if he will not come to us we will go tohim.”Edward now entered Scotland with a, large ar¬my ; one stronghold after another yielded to theconqueror j Edinburgh Castle surrendered after9a slight resistance; Stirling Castle almost with-1 out a struggle t others were abandoned : the spiritJ of the nation was extinguished : and Baliol againsubmitted to the terms of the conqueror. In thisinvasion Edward had been joined by Bruce andS his adherents, who conceived a prospect wasi opened up of that nobleman obtaining the crown,I But Edward, when order was restored, and thei matter hinted to him, contemptuously replied,II “ Have we nothing else to do but to conquerI kingdoms for you ?” Bruce made no reply, butI retired into obscurity, and passed the remainderI of his days in quietness and opulence.It was in the month of July 1296 that Edwrard1 finished at Elgin his expedition northward a| gainst the Scots. On his return to the southji his army committed the most dreadful excesses;i and still more to complete the subjugation ofI Scotland, the English monarch ordered all the3 charters and public papers which could in anyway exhibit proof of the independence of thef|| realm to be destroyed. He also carried off theII celebrated stone, belonging to the coronation-S chair of the Scottish kings, from the palace ofScone, where it had been kept for ages, and de-fl posited it in Westminister Abbey. But all thesei indignities, added to the oppression and misrulel of Edward’s lieutenants in Scotland, only served10to exasperate, and at last to rouse into fearful ao-tion, the slumbering hatred of the nation. A-mongf the foremost of those who handed them-selves against the English was Wallace, who now-first publicly appeared on the scene. He was aman eminently fitted for his perilous enterprise;for to the most ardent love of his country, un¬shaken resolution, and prodigious strength ofbody, he added those firm yet conciliatory man¬ners which are necessary to govern rude andtumultuary ranks; while the personal and familyinjuries he had sustained at the hands of theEnglish gave tenfold vigour to his efforts. Aprediction also of Thomas the Rhymer, assertedthat by the arm of Wallace was the independenceof Scotland to be achieved.To be aquainted with the strength and resour¬ces of the English, Wallace often disguised him-,self, and visited their garrisons and towns.He took precaution to wear a light coat ofmail under his common clothes; his bonnet, whichto common sight was nothing more than a capof cloth or velvet, had a steel basnet concealedunder it; a collar or neck-piece, of the same met¬al, fitted him so closely, that it was hid complete¬ly, and below his gloves he had strong gauntlets ofplate. Relying on his Herculean strength andsecret armour, he fearlesslv ventured into the verymiddle of his enemies, and when they venturedto taunt or assail him, found that they had to dowith an assailant in full armour and of undauntedi courage.While thus disguised, personal encounters withj his enemies were of frequent occurrence. HeI slew a buckler-player at Ayr, and put to flighta number of soldiers, who attempted to rob himj ;of his day’s sport as he fished in Irvine water.lie repaid the rudeness of Squire Long-castle1 by a mortal thrust in the throat with his dagger;I and by many such bold and daring adventures he} slew many of his foes.In the spring of the year 1297, the peoplewere suffering grievously from famine, to relievethe English garrison of Ayr, a large train ofwaggons, under the protection of John de Fen¬wick, took their journey from Carlisle to thattown. Of this Wallace was informed, and al¬though he could then only muster about fiftysoldiers, he determined to attack it. Havingoccupied a strong position within a wood, he putup a temporary fortification, and passed the night.In the grey dawn of the morning, he and his menleft their horses, and occupied a narrow valleywhich the convoy was to pass. Forward cameFcnwick at the head of a force which far outnum¬bered them, and, confident in his own numbers,* Vnlie did not lie«itate to attempt forcitig the pass ;hut lie was soon convinced of Ids error. Encum¬bered by 'tlie train of waggons, and carriages hewas thrown into irrecoverable contusion, and theScots, after a great slaughter, captured the wholeconvoy, which, besides wine, and forage, includedtwo hundred horses, and a considerable plunderin arms and accoutrements.Wallace having been thus successful in variouspartial encounters, many of the barons and otherpersons of high rank flocked to his standard.Edward now prepared a fresh army, which, un¬der the command of Sir Robert “Clifford and SirHeairy Percy, a second time invaded Scotland,flastening to quell the insurrection, they cameup with Wallace'and his army, occupying an ad¬vantageous position in the neighbourhood of Ir¬vine, in Ayrshire, and much superior to the Eng- |lish in numbers, but far inferior in discipline andappointments. By that sort of fatality, whichseems inherent in divided command and undis¬ciplined masses, when they are most required toact in concert, and which always leads to distrustand perplexity, the commanders, on this occasion,were determined to be each independent, andwere therefore intractable, They could agreeupon no measure, Dissension and heartburningswere every where : and Sir Richard Limdin, whoiiafl ’been most vehement in his -ho'stiHty to theTnvafiers, fleserterl the eatrSe of his coffttW, andwent ovet to the Ktigiish, “ 1 wilt f'cntain nolonger with a patty that is at variance with it¬self.”—‘Ste'waft, Lindsay, and 1 tong]as. followedthis example, and basely yielded themselves tothe authority of Edward’s officers.Tire Scottish champion, finding himself thusbasely deserted, by the leading men who sur¬rounded him, retired northward. On his matchwith those who still remained faithful to his for¬tunes, he was joined by many new followers, attdeven received considerable accessions to his ranksfrom the vassals of several barons. Finding hisarmy, by reason of these accessions, once moteon a formidable footing, Wallace renetved thewar, and commenced operations by laying siegeto Dundee, a place of considerable strength.The English leaders were no sooner apprizedof Wallace’s movements in that quarter than theyhastened to meet him, and with that intent ad¬vanced in the direction of Stirling. Intelligenceof their march having been speedily commuhi-cated to the Scottish champion, he instantly re¬solved to meet them on their approach. He thencharged the citizens of Dundee, under pain 6fdeath, to conunue the blockade, and commencedhis march, Listening to seize the important pa§«14which divides the Ochil from the Grampian Hills,so that the English forces, when ready to passthe Forth by the bridge at Stirling, were aston¬ished to see the Scottish army drawn up on a ris¬ing ground near the Abbey of Cambuskenneth,and prepared to oppose their passage. Edward’sgovernor, here attempted to practise the samearts which had beed so successful while at Irvine.The men which Wallace now had, were of a verydifferent stamp from those dastardly and perfid¬ious barons with whom it was his misfortune onthat occasion to be allied. All terms of com¬promise were promptly and sternly rejected.“ Return,” said Wallace to the two friars sentby Warrene to propose an accommodation ; “ Wecame not here to treat but to assert our rights,and set Scotland free. Let them advance, theywill find us prepared.”Thus the English commanders were throwninto perplexity as to what plan of operations theyshould follow. To attempt to force a passagealong the bridge, in the face of an enemy so ad¬vantageously posted and so full of zeal and highhopes, would be a step fraught with manifestdanger, On the other hand, to decline the con¬test with an enemy inferior in many respects •would be held disgraceful. V'hiie engagedin these deliberations, the dange' of assaulting15' the Scots in their present position appeared moreand more hazardous to all the Entilish comman¬ders, except Cressingham the treasurer, who ex¬claimed “ Let us fight, as is our bounden duty.”The boisterous eloquence of Cressingham prevail-led, and the rest of the leaders yielded a reluctant(assent, contrary to the advice also of one ofWallace’s late perfidious associates, Sir RichardLundin, who offered to point out a ford at a short[distance, by taking advantage of which they couldfall on the rear and flanks of the enemy.Wallace, Exhorting his followers solely to a-bide by his orders for the moment of attack,Wallace allowed about a third of the Englisharmy fairly to clear the bridge; when rushingdown, wrhile the others were defiling along thebridge, with an unlooked for and almost incredi¬ble impetuosity, the Scots precipitated themselveson their yet unformed ranks. The shock waslike that of a mountain-torrent. The Englishseemed to have been, as it were, instantaneouslyswept off’ the earth. Thousands were slain onthe field or drowned in the river; among the resttheir rash adviser, Cressingham, whose dead bodywas treated with great indignity by the Scots,who abhorred him for the tyranny which he hadalways displayed against their country. A panicseized the English, who had witnessed this sud-Overthrow and de^ruction of their compan- sions s they hastily burned the bridge to securetheir retreat, and, fleeing with the utmost rapidi- k?y, they scarcely halted till they had reachedBerwick, leaving all their baggage and otherammunition in the hands of the victors. Few a-mong the Scots fell in this engagement. Thisbattle, so fatal in its issue to the English, tookplace on the 11th September 1207.Wallace pushed on with rapid steps to Dundee,which in a short time capitulated. One strong-hold after another fell into the hands of the pat¬riots, and the country was soon freed from thetyranny of her oppressors.By reason of bad seasons and want of cultiva¬tion, the country was reduced to a most deplora¬ble state of privation and want, amounting almostto famine. To relieve in some measure the gen¬eral pressure, as well as to retaliate on the invaders,fen expedition into England was put under thecommand of Wallace, and the young Sir AndrewMurray, whose father fell at Stirling. The Scotspoured into the northern counties, Berwick wastaken, and the w hole country completely overrunand Wasted 5 and so great was the revenge of theScots at this time, that Wallace himself and theOther commanders were altogether unable torestrain their excesses.17Many wonderful facts are told of Wallace's.i exploits he defeated the English in several com¬bats, chased them almost entirely out of Scotland,regained the towns and castles of which they hadii possessed themselves, and recovered the completefl freedom of the country. He even marched intoI England, and laid Cumberland and Northumber-■land waste, and humbled the English.In the north of Scotland, the English had(|placed a garrison in the strong castle of Dunnot-itar, which, built on a large and precipitous rock,ii overhangs the raging sea. Though the place isII almost inaccessible, Wallace and his followers;i found their way into the castle, while the garrisonI in great terror fled into the church or chapel,which was built on the very verge of the pre-idipioe. This did not save them, for Wallaceicaused the church to be set on fire. A numberlof the terrified garrison, involved in the flames,ijfan upon the points of the Scottish swords, while"others threw themselves from the precipice intolithe sea, and swam along to the clifts, where theyihung like sea-fowl, screaming in vain for mercyifitnd assistance.j The followers of Wallace falling on their knees,1,0 before the priests who chanced to be in the aripy,ithey asked forgiveness for having committed $o,» Hgigh slaughter within the limits of a church de-18dicatcd to the service of God. But Wallace liadso deep a sense of the injuries -which the Englishhad done to his country, that he only laughed atthe contrition of his soldiers,—“ I will absolveyou all myself,” he said. “ It is not half whatthe invaders deserved at our hands ?” So deep-seated was Wallace’s feeling of national resent¬ment, that it overcame, the scruples of a temperwhich was naturally humane.The Scots returned from England in triumph,laden with plunder; where they had spread ter¬ror along the whole border, to the gates of New¬castle.Edward once more resolved to invade Scotland,at the head of 80,000 infantry and 7000 horse¬men, he in person led on the march, holding hiscourse northward he passed through Edinburgh,and fixed his head-quarters at Templeliston, avillage between that city and Linlithgow, wherelie resolved to abide till his victualling-ship*should arrive. While stationed here he receivedintelligence that the Scots were advancing uponFalkirk, a town about 12 miles distant. He re¬solved to give battle. But while the Englishpassed the night under arms on a heath, an ac¬cident happened to their king which threatenedfor the present to suspend the attack. As he layon the ground, his war-house struck rum with#19!iio!cnce which brohc two of his ribs ; hut, disro-arding- the pain, he mounted the horse and Ln-tantly led his troops to battle.The Scots were formed in a stony field on a. lightly rising ground, in the near vicinity of l7al-Ijirk. Their infantry were drawn up in four cir-lular bodies, while the archers were disposed inhe intervals. The horse, amounting only to aliousand, were posted in the rear. In front of}ie whole lay a morass. “ Now,” said Wallace,I have brought you to the ring ; hop gif youin —that is, “ dance if you have skill.” Ed-ard’s chief dependence w’as on his cavalry, 4000!'f whom were cased incomplete armour. Thesee ranged in three lines. The first was led byligdt, Earl Marshal, and the earls of Hereford.liicoln; the second by the bishop of Durham,aving under him ;iir Ralph Basset of Drayton ;le third, to act as a reserve, was commanded byre king- in person. The assault was begun byie English horse, who, finding the passage ofic morass, which lay in front of the Scots, tolie impracticable, made a simultaneous attack onhie right and left flanks of their enemy. The1 ft flank made a determined and bloody rcsiat-ilnce ; blit the Scots cavalry, panic-struck by theiverwhelming appearance of the English horse,.jj'hich, as well as their riders, were equipped In20heavy plates of steel, fled on their near approaphWallace with his gallant infantry had now to sustain, unsupported, the whole shock of the Pnglislarmy, who again and again threw themselvewith headlong fury upon the Scottish circlesbut, “ they could not penetrate into that woooof spears.” After sustaining these repeated charges with the most determined resolution, theoute:ranks were at last broken by dense showers ostones and arrows, \rhich the English poured iiupon them in aid of the heavy onsets of thenhorse. Macduff and Sir John Graham had b)this time fallen, as also Sir John Stuart, whccommanded the archers ^ almost all of which lasthad perished by the side of their beloved comman¬der, whose death by their devoted bravery theyso amply revenged. The rout was now becom¬ing universal, when Wallace, collecting the shat¬tered remains of his forces, commenced a retreatacross the Carron,—a movement which, by his.precaution caused little loss Among those whomost eagerly pressed on their rear was Bruce, whoon tjris occasion had again leagued himself withthe English. Exasperated at the sight of this sel¬fish traitor, Wallace suddenly darted forward, andwith Ifis two-handed sword dealt him a blow,which, though it missed Bruce’s head, wars yetaimed with such prodigious strength as to cleavem Jjorie to the ground. With Sir Brian le Jayja knight-templar of high military renown^ the.(Scottish hero was more successful. With a sin-llgle blow of his battieaxe he laid him dead in thejiuidst of his followers,(Wallace now retreated across the Forth. Butprevious to this movement, and while wanderingon the hanks of the Carrou, Wallace was. reeog-i|( nised by the misguided Bruce,, who descried himi from the opposite bank> and, with the view per-| haps pf justifying his own dastardly conduct, as-i cribed to ambitious motives, in. Ids opposition to[;|the Fnglidi. “ Ky,” said Waliace, “ myt| thoughts never soared so high; I only mean to! deliver my country from oppression and slavery,and to support a cause which you and others, have| abandoned. If you have, but the heart, you may1 yet win a crown with glory, and wear it with; justice. I can do neither: but will—live and die| a free, born subject.”The generous mind of Bruce was much strucki with these glorious sentiments; he repented thathe had joined Edward; he felt that he had be¬trayed his country and his own right; and besecretly determined to. seise the, fust opportunity(| of joining; his, oppressed, country mem.In this battle, the. loss, on both sides was verygreat. The number of the English, accordingllto historians of credit, amounted, as before statedto neany 90,000 men, while that of the Scot?scarcely reached to a third part of the amount.Among- the Scots who fell none was more regret¬ted than Sir John the Graham, whose death wasdeeply mourned by Wallace. Sir John wasburied at Falkirk, where a monument was erected to his memory, on which there is the follow'ing inscription:—“ Graham is buried here, slainin battle by the English : he was strong in mineand body, and the faithful friend of Wallace.The battle of Falkirk led the way to further!successes on the side of the English, and almosthe whole of the southern districts were reduceunder their power. The Scots still held posses^sion of the country north of the Forth. In themean while Wallace, mortified by the treacheryof the nobles, who threw every obstacle in the'way of his being of any efficient use in the causeof Iris country, and disgusted with their quarrelsand jealousies, retired lor a while into obscurity./'About this time, he took a voyage to France,with a small band of trusty friends, to try whathis presence might do to induce the French mon*arch to send to Scotland a body of auxiliary for¬ces, to aid the Scots in regaining their independ¬ence, but in the mean time bishop Lambcrton,Erucc, carl of Garrick, and John Gumming tin23younger submited to b.dward, but bir WilliamAVallace, with a very small band of followers re¬fused either to acknowledge the usurper, Edward,i or to lay down his arms. He continued to maiu-!tain himself among the woods and mountains ofhis native country, for no less than seven yearsI after his defeat at Falkirk, and for more than one1 year after all the other defenders of Scottish lib-Ierty had laid down their arms. Many proclam¬ations were sent out against him by the English,i and a great reward was set upon his head; lorEdward did not think he could have any securepossession of his usurped kingdom of Scotlandwhile Wallace lived. At length he was takenprisoner; and, shame it is to say, a Scotsman,I called Sir John Menteith, was the person by■ whom he was seized and delivered to the English.’ It is generally said that he was made prisoner atRobroyston, near Glasgow : and the tradition of1 the country bears, that the signal made lor rushingupon him and taking him at unawares, was, whenone of his pretended friends, who betrayed him,should turn a loaf, which was placed on the table,with its bottom or flat side uppermost. And inafter-times it was reckoned ill-breeding to turn aloat in that manner, if there was a person namedMenteith in company; since it was as much as torewind him, that h» uamesake had betrayed SirWilham Wallace, the Champion of Scotland.Edward kiviag' thus obtained possession of theperson he coBsidered as the greatest obsta*»ele to his complete conqaest of Scotland, resoL-ved to make Wallace an example to all Scottish,pati iots, who sheuld in futvire venture to opposehis ambitious projects. He eaused this gallant•hdeMidev bis country to be brought to trial inWestminster- haU), where he was accused of ha\s-w»gbe«»a trait©* to the English erown; to whichhe aatswered, 4(4 1 could not be a traitor to Ed¬ward, fer l was never his subject.”Notrwitbsfeuulfuig- this most bon oar able defence,Wallace was shamefufly condemned to be exe-CHted- irs a traitor f and Edward to his infiniterepcoeeh and disgrace, ordered Wallace to bedragged upon a sledge to the place of execution-,where bis head was struck off, and his body di¬vided into four quarters’, which, in conformity tothe cruel practice of the time, were exposed uponpikes of iron upon London Bridge,—his rightarm above the bridge at Newcastle,—his leftwas sent to Berwick,—his right foot and limb toPerth, and his left quarter to Aberdeen,—andtermed the limbs of a traitor! He was executedon the 23d of August, 1305.FINIS.