CHRIST the SAVIOUR of the WORLD..++++++++++++<-l-++-H-++4-{-+++++-H-i-++-4-J-• AS E R MON-Preached immediately before the Celebratio.noP the Lord’s Supper,* Ettrick, 'June7th, 1724,By the Rev. Mr. THOMAS BOSTON,late Minifter of the Gofpel at Et:rick.I John iv. 14. And <ue lave fern, and doteflijy.' that toe I other font his Son to he> the Saviout of the 'world.<^C:E D'l N B U R G H:Printed by J. Morren, Campbell’s Clofe,Cowgate.—1802.( * )ASERMON.1 John iv. 14. And we have feen and doteJUfy that the Father fent the Son to bethe Saviour of the world.JOHN, the beloved difciple, in his Epif-tles, is. ftill breathing love ; love is thefiring he delights particularly to harp upon :So he is either magnifying God’s love to us,or preffing our love to God, and to one ano¬ther. - And his darling fubjeft, love, is nonarrow one', but moil comprehenfive; it com¬prehends both the gofpel and the law, bothfaith and works. The love of God to manis the great doftrine of the gofpel, the objedt©f faith; mens k>vfe to God. and to one ano¬ther, is the great doftrine of the law of theten commandments, and the objedt of holypra&ice. And there is a near relation be¬tween the 4wro : God’s dove is the fountain,our love the flream ; the former the originalholy fire, the latter the flame kindled by it.Accordingly, in the text, there is a difplayof the love of God, for moving us to love oneanother ; the which difplay of divine love isthe fubflance of the gofpel.Here then we have the gofpel, which allthe apoftles were in one voice to preach un¬to the world; * We have feen, and do tefli-fy, that the Father fent the Son to be theCbrift tie Saviour of the worlJ. .3Saviour of the world/ And herein we mayconfider,1. The gofpel, or glad tidings itfelf, viz.That ‘ the Father f&nt the Son to be the Sa¬viour of the world/ Here is glad news tothe world, Ghrift’s million. The promifeof this miffion was made to fallen Adam inparadife : Believers, under the old Tefta-ment, lived and died in the faith,of it. Butthe apoflles teltified it as a thing performed;‘ the Father fent/ or, ‘ hath fent th« Son/The party fent, is the Son of God, our LoriJefus Chrift; no other was fit for this mif-fion. The party fending, from whom hehad his commiffion, waa the Father, tb« firllPerfon of the glorious Trinity. None of alower dignity could fend one of his dignity.The chara&er in which he was fent, it ‘ th*Son, Saviour of the world.* So the werdaare without any fupplement; of which thereis no need here. So Chrift is faid to hnvecome a teacher from God. John iii. a. i. e.in the chandler ef a divine teacher. As oneis fent ambalTadcr to fuch a court, that is,coaftituted by his prince ambaffador to thatcourt, and accordingly fent away in thatcharafter: fo Chrift was conftituted nomi¬nated, and appointed by his Father, Savi¬our of the nrorld, and fo fent away into thnworld in that charadler. The world is th#world of mankind indefinitely, ruined byAdam’s fin. John iii, i5. ‘ God fo lovedtiie world, that he gave his only begottenCbriji the Saviour of the <xbrld>Sou, that whofoever bcliereth in him ihouldnot perifh but have everlailing life.’ There¬in God’s love towards men appeared. Titusiii, 4.2. The certainty of this gofpel or gladtidings. All the apoflles witneffed, with one'mouth, this great truth : And they witneffedthe fame/&s e\e-witneffes, having feen theSaviour, and read his commiffion for thateffeft, ajid beheld Heaven’s feal again and a-gain fet to it, in his miracles. And this mat¬ter of their witneffing from their eye-light,was fo much ftodd upon, that the apoftle^' Paul, who was not called to be an apollle tillafter'Chrift’s afcenfion, was, allowed firfi; tofee with his eyes., before he Ihould bear wit-hefs, Afts xxvi. 19. ‘ I have appeared untot!:ee for this very purpofe. to mahe thee aminiver and a witneis both of thefe thingswhichAthou haft feen, ai\d of thofe things inthe Xvhich I will appear unto thee.’ kvDocx. It is the great truth and teftimonyof the gofpel» that the Father has fent hisSon Jefus Chrift in the character of Saviourof the,w(?r!d.In profecuting of this doftrine I fit all,I. Take notice of fome things imported inthis teftimonv.• II. Open this charafter, ‘ Saviour of theworld, in which Chriff was fent.Ill Apply.' I. I fir-11 take notice of- feme things im¬ported in this teilimony.Chriji the Saviour of the world. ^i. The world needed a Saviour; other-wife one had not been provided for them byhim who does nothing in vain. It was afioi world call into a defperate illnefs by: eating of the'forbidden fruit; and needed aph- fieian to cure the diltemper. Mat. ix. 12.I * Jefus ^a!C^ nnto them, They that be whole; nee i not a phyfician, but they that are fick.’It was a curfed world, flaked down underwrath by the fentence of the broken law;and needed a Saviour to remove the curfe,.. and ormg in the.bleffing, Afts iif. 26. ‘ Godf;baling railed up his Son Jefus, lent him toJr*3 W’ ^ was a loft world, loft toI 'Jf I°‘t to themfelves, loft to all good, loftand perifhing under the wravth of God; andit needed one. to leek and lave them, LukeIO* * ^*Cir tne ^on of man is come toLek and to fave that which was loft.’_ 2 None, of inferior dignity to the Son of; Ood, could be the Saviour of the world Noman, nor angel was able to fuftain the cha.racier of Saviour of a loft world : The woikwhich lay to that-office, was above the reachof the whole creation, Rev. v. j. ‘ And noy.man in heaven, nor in earth, neither tenderthe earth, was able to open the book, neither.tylcok thereon,’. Here was a trial of thei.divine love;to man; his cafe was hopelefsanc helplefs from all the creatures; and it\ ln ^st, 4 God fo loved the world,. that \e gave Lis only begotten Son,’ Johniu. 16. J$ Sbrijl tbt Saviour of the world.X Ckrilt was fent Saviour of the world/rom heaven’s proper moiion. The plotfave man, v^as. concerted entirely withouthim The world did not meet, and fend oneto the court of heaven, with a petition fora Saviour, that a Saviour was granted totheir earneft entreaties and Applications.But the Father, of preventing free love,fent his Son, Saviour of the world. Theworld’s need fpoke loud, but they themfelveswere quite filent; and yet their needs fpokeno louder than thol® of the iallan angels .And fovereign free grace heard the voice ofman’s needs, while it ftopt its ears to thevoice of the needs of fallen angeA Tit. m. 4.* But the kindnefs and love of God our Sa¬viour towards men appeared,’'4. Ghrift is fully furniihed for the favmgof a loft world. His being fent m that cha-vaaer, fpeaks his ability to anfwer it... Heb.Vii 2r. ‘ Wherefore he is able to fave themto *the uttermoft, that come unto God byhim, feeing he ever liveth to make intercel-fion for them.’ Thefe is no cafe to befound in the world, but what there is a re¬medy to be found in Chrift for. Whofoeyerin the world ftiall die, they {hall not die be-caufe there, was no help for their cafe m theSaviour, but becaufe they did not employhim or put their cafe in his hand 1 he £>a-viourof the world is certainly able to lavethe world; finse he was lent of God in thateharatter.Cbrijl the Saviour of the world. y5* Laftly, The Talvation of loft finners ofthe world of mankind, is very acceptable tothe God and Father of our "Lord Jefus, aswell as to himfelf, otherwife he had not fenthis Son Saviour of the world, i Tim. ii. 3.4. ‘ For this is good and acceptable in thefight of God our Saviour ; who will have allmen to be faved.’ Hence it is called 1 Thepleafure of the Lord,’ Ifa. liii. 10. ‘ Theplealure of the Lord Ihall profper in hishand.’ So he is faid to make the marriagefor his Son, and to fend forth to bid to thatmarriage, Matth. xxii. Whence it is evi¬dent, that there is no impediment to the fal-vation of finners by Jefus Chrift, on Heaven'spart; it is pleafing to the Father, to his Son,ar.d to his Spirit,II. I fhall open this charader, ‘ Saviourof the world,’ in which Chrift was fent; andif that end enquire into two things4 1. Inwhat fenfe Chrift is the Saviour of the world,2. What is the bufinefs committed to him zsinch.Firft, In what fenfe, Chrift is the Saviourof the world. A Saviour is a name of hon¬our, and a name of bufinefs. It is an hon¬ourable thing to fave and help the miferable;to be deftined, appointed, and called to that, employment: But the honourable poll hasbufinefs annexed to it; it will not do with¬out a&ivity, which fuQcefs is expeded to at¬tend, as in the cafe of a teacher, phyficiar,tnd the like. Now, one may be a faviour,S -J'!8 Cbriji the Saviour of the world.even as a teacher, or phyficiai^, of a Society,two ways, x. In refpett of office, as beingcalled''to, and in veiled with the office of fa- 1ving, telling, or curing of that Society.And thus one is ffiviour, teacher, or phyfi-cian of that Society, before ever he lave, ’teach, < r cure any of them. In this re-fpe£t, one may be called- an official faviour,teacher, or phyfician. i. In refpedt of theevent and fuecefs, as adually and eventually .laving1 teaching, ard healing. As the far¬mer anfeth from an appointment put uponfuch a one ; this arifeth from the work hemanaged, in virtue of that appointment. In •this refpedi, one may be called an a&ual and yeventual faviour. Thus it is faid, Nth. ix.xy. 1 And according to thy manifold mer¬cies, thou -gave it them faviours, who faved *•thtm out of the hands of their enemies.’—This- premifedj we fay,T. Our Lord jefus is the a final and e- -vcntual Saviour of the elect only, in whole |rcomimd head only he died upon the erols, (according to the eternal'compact pafied be¬tween him and,the Father, in the covenantof grace, ctherwife called the covenant of .1redemption ; for thefe are not two, but oneand -the fame covenant. Thus the apolile |calls him 4 the Saviour of the body,’ Epb. v. I23. that is, of ,the elect, who make up thebody whereof, he was appointed the head ;from eternity; audio whofe- name he con-tratlcd with the Father ip the eternal cove-Chrijl the Saviour of the "xorid. c>cant. And he is their Savioiir eventually",as actually having'them, Mattfr. i. 2 1. ‘ Andfoe fhall bring forth a Son, and thou foaltcall his name Jeius ; for he foall fave hispeople from their fins.’ None but thefe willever truly employ him as a Saviour, or putt their cafe in his hand: and there are noritft of them but will certainly employ him focnerI or later, A£ts xiii. 48. ‘ As many as weret ordained to eternal life believed.’ John Vi. 37.‘ All that the Father giyeth me, foall 'come• to. me : and him that cometh to me, I will inno ways call.out.’1. Our Lord Jefus Chrift is the officialSaviour not of the ele& only, but of theworld of mankind indefinitely ; fo otir textcalls him ‘ Saviour of the world.’ Agree¬able to, which God in Chriil is called ‘ the‘ Saviour of all men,’ but with a fpeciality,( ‘ the Saviour of them that believe.’ 1 Tim.iv. 10. The matter lies here : Like as aprince, out of regard to his fubjefts’ wel¬fare, gives a commilfion to a qualified per-fori to be a phylician to fuch a fociefy,' St regi'-ment. or the like; and the prince’s commif-i fion conflitutes him phyficjan. of that foeie-i ty : fo that though many of them fliould ne¬ver employ him, but call other phyficfans,4 yet ftill there is a relation betwixt him and• them ; he is their phyfician by office ; anyof them all may conie to him if they will,and be healed : So God, locking upon thel ruined world 6f mankird, has conftitutedio Chrijl the Saviour of the world.and appointed Jefus Chrifl: his Son Saviourof the world; He has heaven’s patent farthis office; and wherefoever the gofpel comes,this patent is intimated. Hereby a rela¬tion is conllituted betwixt him and the worldof ma kind; he is their Saviopr, and theythe Joje&s of his adminiftration : So thatany of them all may come to him, withoutmoney or price, and be faved by him, asth«ir own Saviour-appointed them by theFather.That Chrift is thus the Saviour of theworld, appears, if ye confider,i. Scripture-teftimony, which is plain.Our text exprefsly calls him fo : And fo dothe believing Samaritans profefs their faithin him, John iv. 52. ‘We have heard himourfelves, and know that this is indeed theChrift* the Saviour of the world.’ Youhave the appointment of Heaven very plainthereanent, John iii. 19- ‘ God fo loved theworld, that he gave his only begotten Son,that whofoever believeth in him fhouldnot perifh, but have everlafting life evenas the brazen ferpent, lifted up on the polein the wildernefs, was the ordinance of Godfor healing to the Rung perfons of the wholecamp of Ifrael. Hence Chrift’s falvation iscalled, ‘ the common falvation,’ Jude ver. 3.a falvation which any of mankind fmnersmay lav hold on. So the Saviour’s birth isfaid to be 4 glad tidings for all people.’ Lukeii. 10, 11. which it could not have been, ifCbrijl the Saviour of the world. j Ihe had not been a Saviour for all people,Wherefore, he himfelf teftifies, that he cameto fave the world, John hi. 17. ‘-Godfentnot his Son into the world to condemn theworld ; but that the world through himmight be faved,’ Chap. xii. 47. ‘ 1 camenot to judge the world but to fave the.world.’ This was his office, to fave finners,but finners of mankind indefinitely, withoutexception, 1 Tim. 1. 15. ‘ This is a faith¬ful faying, and worthy of all acceptation,that - hrift Jefus came into the world tofave fmnersthe loft. Luke xix. 10. ‘ TheSon of man is come to feok and to fave thatwhich is loft 2 Cor. v. 19. * God was inChrift, reconciling the world unto himfelf,not imputing their trefpaffes unto them.’ Tothe fame purpofe, he declares himfelf ‘ thelight of the world,’ namely by office, Johnviii. 12. that whofcever may employ himmay have the light of life.2. If it were not fo, he could not war-rantably be offered with his falvation to theworld, indefinitely, but to the ele£t only ;more than he can be offered lawfully to fal¬len angels, who were not within his commif-fion as a Saviour. For the minifterial offercan never lawfully carry the matter beyondthe bounds of Chrift’s commiffion from hisFather. But Chrift, and his falvation, maybe warrantably offered to the whole worldof mankind linners, with affurance thatwhofoever of them wiK employ him to fave<1j 2 Cbrijl the Saviour of the, world.them ht Thail be favcd : Mark xvi. 15. 16,f ',Go«ye i/ito /all the world and preach ;the ffolpel to every creature. He that bt>lieveth Hi all be faved ; but he that believethnot. lhall be damned.’ Moreover, if itwere not fo, the unbelief of hearers of thegoipel, not eledted, their not . coming toChrill for falvation, could hot be their fin :For it can never be *ne’s fin not to do athing he has no warrant for ; nor to employone to fave him, whom God never appoint¬ed to be his Saviour. So it is not the fin offallen arigtls. that they believe hot in Chriftfor falvation,.becaxife they are not within theSaviour's comhiilfion ; nor of thofe who ne¬ver heard of Chrift. becaufe his commiftimwas never intimated to them. But not be¬lieving in Chrift the Saviour^ is the fin thatruins the hearers of the gofpel who do at ailperifh, John iii. 16. , And this is the con¬demnation, that light is come into the world,aed meh loved darknefs rather than light,becaufe their deeds were evil’ Finally, ifit we tv not fo, the elect themfelves couldnot Joelieve:in Chrift till, in t^e firft place,their eledtkm were revealed to them : whichis contrary tiie ftated method of grace: Forthey can never be’icve in Chrift for their fal«vation, till they fee him to be a Saviour forthem.There are two things farther to be re¬marked on this head.- '■m... "j-ound upen which Chrift might ^‘ Ohriji the Saviour of the warld. 13se confl'tuted Saviour < f the world, by of-See. And 'thai wa-s the fafficieucy of themerits- of his ‘ death and fulferings : For,though Chriit died only in the roorn and{lead of his eledl,' on the Grafs iu(tamingtheir perfons only according to that, John*.15. ‘I lay down my life for the (beep;*yet the price, paid for them, being of infi¬nite worth, was fuffifient in itfelf to favethe whole world. The bread provided forthem; viz. a crucified Chtift, was fufficientto give life to, arid %ed, not them only, butthe whole world of mankind; and, there¬fore, he might be appointed Saviour of theworld, John vi. 33, 51. ‘ The bread of Godis he which cometh, down from heaven, andgiveth life unto the world. I am the livingbread, which came down from heaven. Ifany man eat of this bread, he fhall live forever: And the bread that I will -give is,my flelh, which I will give for the Hie of theworM.’2. The reafon why he a&ually was eon-| ftituted Saviour of the world. Among, fe-veral reafons that might be given'fer this,,!, fhall only • obfetve here this one, namelyThat I was put upon him as a piece of bon-> our, the reward of his great fervices in lay-t ing down his life for, and in (lead of, thofewho vrere'the abjeefs of his Father’s elect-;'ing love, Ifaf xlix. 6. 8. ‘ And he laid, It• is a light thing that thou fhouldeft be myfervant, to raife up the tribes of Jacob’, rind14 Cbrijl the Saviour of the world.to reflore the preferve4 of Jfrael : I will al-fo gire thee fox- a light to the * ientiles, tha^;thou mayli; be ra. falvation unto the ends ofthe earth. Thus faith the Lord, In an ac*;ceptable time have I heard thee, and in ada v -of falvation have ! helped thee : and Iwill preferye thee and give thee for a cove-]nant of the people. The Father, for thatcaufe, invefted him wuh all potver in hea¬ven and earth/ Matth, xxviii. 18. John v.2i 22. 1 As the Father raifed up the dead,,and quickeneth them, even fo the Son qiiick-eneth whom he will. For the Father judgetlyno man; but hath committed all judgment',unto the Son,1 And it was a reward fuitableunto his work.Secondly, What is the bufmefs committedto him as Ssviour of the world. Not to de-fcend into particulars here, we may take it1up in thefe two.i. It is to fave finners from their fin,Mattb. i. 2 x. ‘ Thou ftxalt call his name Je-fus; for he fhall fave his people from their ‘fins.’ Satan ruined the world by bringinglin upon them : Thereby they were boundwith the cords of guilt, the image of God jin them was defaced, they were polluted \and made loathfome, and fhut up in thehands of a flrangc lord. God has appoint¬ed Chrift Saviour of the world, that thefinners may come to him and be delivered |from their fins, i John iii. 8. ‘ He thateommitteth fin is of the devil: for die de- .Cbrift the Saviour 1/ the world 15vil finneth from the beginning. For thispurpofe the Son of msn was manifefted,that he might daftroy the works of the de¬vil.’ It was an inveterate difeafe, the cureof which was quite beyond the reach of anymere creature, as far as the r&ifing of the•dead is. fo he was appointed Saviour in thecafe. Pfalm Ixxxix. 19. ’ I have laid helpupon one that is might' ; I have exalted onechofcn out of the people.*2. It is to fave finne.'S from mifery, tofree them from deftrudtion. Hofea xiii. 9.O Ifrael thou haft deftroyed th> felf, but inme is thine help.’ They are by fin madeobjects of wrath, laid under the curfe of thebroken law, liable to revenging wrath fortime and for eternity: He is appointed tofave them from all this, upon their comingto him, and employing .him for that pur-pyfe, Ifaiah xvxii. 2. ‘ And a man Ihall beas an hiding place from the wind, and acovert from the tempeft ; as rivers of watersin a dry-place, as the fhadow of a greatrock in a weary land.’ Sin let in a delugeof miferies on the world, which flow aboutthe finner continually in greater^ or leflermeafure: he is a Saviour to dry it up forthem 1 Cor. i, 30. ‘ Rut of him are ye inChrift Jefus. who of God is made unto uswiidom. and righteoufnefs, and fan£tifica-tion, and redemption.’Use I. Of Information.i. Behold here, admire^ and believe the< p • - '16/ Chrifi the Saviour of the world.great love of God tb a loft world, in provid¬ing a Saviour, and fuch a Saviour for them,even his awn Son. The Scripture fpea\s of .t this in a very high ftrain, John iii. 16.‘ God -fo loved the world, that hfe gave hisonly begotten Son,’ See. There was a man-love in God, Titus iii. 4. ‘ But the kindnefsl ahd love of God our Saviour toward man /appeared A love of the kind, mankind.It has appeared in two eminent inftances,(1.) In fecuring, by an irreverlible decree,the falvation of fome ©f them. _ (2.) In pro¬viding a Saviour for-the whole-of the kind, .conftitutiiTg his own Saviour to the loft fa- f(•' mily of Adsina indefinitely. Believe it withapplication to yourfelves. If upon this a fe-cret murmer begins to go through your’ heart, But it was not for me; crufti it in thei bud, for it is a bud of hell. If you are notone of the devil kind, but of finful mankind,it was for you. The Father gave Ohrift a1 Saviour for you., that if1 you would believe fon him, you fhould, not perifti; fiedent his *Son from heaven with full inftru&iohs andlample powers to fave you, if you1 will be¬lieve. And is not this love ? Bfdieve it. andit will be the way to let you into a fight ofmore love.2. Behold here a .broad and firm found¬ation of faitfi for all an.d every one of you ;that you may come to Ghrift, whatever your-,cafe is, and claim his rightebufneft and hiswhole falvation for yourfelves,1 to him as theCbriji the Saviour of the world. 17refuge appointed for you by the Fatherfrom fin and wrath, with as much freedemas a ftung ffraelite might- have looked tothe brazen ferpent: That you mav whollytruft on him, that he will fave you from finand wrath. For he was lent of the FatherSaviour of the world; and if, bv the Fa¬ther’s appointment, he is Saviour of the-world, he is, by office, your Saviour andmy Saviour, fxnce we are members of thatworld of mankind : fo that we may, byfaith, claim his faving us from fin andwrath; as a fcholar bred in a place, mayclaim teaching of him who is appointedmailer of a free fehool in that place; asthofe of a congregation may claim preach¬ing of their own minifter, and as the wound¬ed in battle may claim healing of their ownphyficisEh, whe has a commiffion to be phy-fician to their regiment. For we teftify,that the Father fent the Son Saviour of theworld.3, Sinners, living in their fins, pining a-way, and about to perilh etti^ally in them,are without excufe. For, ‘ we teftify, thatthe Father has fent the Son Saviour of theworld.’ John xv. 22. 4 If I had not comeand fpoken unto them, they had1 not hadfm : But now they have nd cloke for theirfin.’ Sinners are deltrcyed with their livingand raging lufts, they are run down withthem as with running fores, their fouls are•bleeding to death with them &s with mortalxS Cbrijl the Savisur of the •world,wounds : In this cafe, they hold on overthe belly of their convictions; and they fay,they cannot help it. One cannot help hisfw e a ring ; another his fenfuality ; anotherpride, paffion, covetoufnefs, grofs igno¬rance, his old corrupt, unrenewcd heart,But the truth is, ye will not have it helped.•Joan v 30. * Ya will not come to me, thatye might have life.’ If ye cannot help it, yehave a Saviour who can help it, and wouldcertainly help it if you would employ him.Know of a truth, if any of you .fhall pe-rifh, and if ye go on in your fms, ye fhallpcrifti, ye fhall not perifh for want of a Sa¬viour. At the tribunal of God, the devilsmay fay, We could not be faved from ourfins; for, there was 00 Saviour appointedfor us : the Pagans may fay, We could notbe faved j for, though we were within theeorapafs of the Saviour’s commiffion, yet' ^ never heard it, it never was intimatedto us. But what will ye get to fay, for thatye are not faved from your fins; when yourSaviour fhall fit judge upon you, and con¬demn you to fufFer the vengeance of eternalfire, for that ye would have none of him,nor his falvation ; ye would not be favedfrom your fins, would not put your cafe inhis hand; though he had the Father’s com¬miffion to be the Saviour of the wo rid, andyour Saviour, and it was read to y< u, yewould not receive him as your Saviour,Cbrijl the Saviour of tie world. 19but v/ould rather die in your fins than em¬ploy him.4. Believers thcmfelves may be alhamedand confounded, for that iniquity prevails foagainft them. Alas ! it is a fad fign the Sa¬viour is little employed among us. Littleliving by faith, makes little holinefs of life.O look to that fin which fo eafily befets you,that has fo often v/recked your foul’s eafe :Believe you have a Saviour for it, "and em¬ploy him.Use II. For trial.Try whether the Saviour of the world, byoffice, h your aftual Saviour; whether or nothe has faved yovu Think not that Chriilputs off his faving of finhers, till they cometo heaven : True, they are not completelyfaved till they be there ; but, if their faiva-tion by Chrilt is not begun here, you fhallnever get thero. Tit. iii. 5, 6, 7. ‘ Not byworks of righteoufnefa, which we have done,but according to his merer, he faved us bythe walhing of regeneration, and renewingof the Holy Ghoit; which he Ihed on usabundantly, through Jefus Chrift our Savi¬our: That, being juftified by his grace,we fhould be made heirs according to thehope of eternal life.’ And ye have no rightbefore the Lord to his table, if he has notbeen a Saviour to you actually and event-ually in having faved you from fin andwrath initially, though not completely : forif it is not fo, it is an evidence yon have not20 Cbrijl the Savhur cf the world.received him as your Saviour ; frr no fooueris he employed by a finner, 6ut he bemns tolave that /inner.^ Mark i. If ~<>M has really'begun tolavs you, ve wul have the faved man’stiiougiits -ot’.fin, and of the wrath a,f Godh a drowned man wore pulled alive put.ofa’water, or a filthy, fringing puddle; anditancung at the fide of it, looking to It af-.ter that glj/F; what would be his thoughtsof that water, that ‘puddle, where he wasonce over head‘and ears, and almofl .gone ?Such will be your thoughts of fin,'and oftpe wrath of God. Ye will have awfuland reverend thoughts of the wrath ofGod above a’d awful things,. Heb. xih. 28.29. ‘ Wherefc/e, we_ receiving a king¬dom vyhich cannot be moved, let us havegrace, whereby’ we may ferve . God ac¬ceptably witfi reference and godly fear,lor our God.is a c;enfuming fire.’ Matth.X 28.. <: Fear not them, which kill the bo¬dy, but aite not Jjle to kill, the.foul : Butrather fear Him vvho is. a^)ie to. deltroyboth foul and -body, in hell.* Of all ter¬rors it vy ill be to you the moll terrible.Thole, in the Hate of wrath, they are ei-.tyer lb as they .have loft their fenfes in it;they know not where they are, they aredreacting ofn feme pteafant place ;, and To4:ney go on peacefully, in their fins, undifi.turbed witft thoughts of wrath,; or elfetheyBave lometerrible apprehenfions of it:Chrijl the Saviour of the ‘world} 21But there is fometbipg more terrible ; andtherefore, ’they will rather fm than fullerthe hardfliips attending duty, yea, attend¬ing .mortiftcation; or elfe their heart is fire-hot with the terror of the wrath of God,and, in the mean time, at leaft key-cold oflove, and child-like affe&ion to the Godwhofe wrath it is. But the faved foul looks^on it as of all things the mofl. awful, but,in the mean time, with a childlike reve¬rence of and affection to that God whofewrath it is.Mark v/ill have a tranfcendant e-Iteem °f and love to your Saviour, i Pet.ii. 7. ‘ Unto you who believe he is pre-' clous,’ His confcience-purifving blood, hisfoul-fan&ifying fpirit, v/ill be more valua¬ble to you than a ihoufand worlds, ye will| defire them above all thing*, part and longafter them, apd ay more and more of them ;and. in companion of them, all the wouldwill be but trifles in our eyes, which yewill be content to part with, to gainthem, Matthew xiii. 49. “ The merchant¬man, when he had ‘ found one pearl ofgreat price, he went and fold all that hehad, and bought it.’ Luke xiv. 29. ‘ If anyman -come ty me, and hate not his father,and mother and wife, and children, andbrethren, and fillers, yea, and.his own lifealfo, fie cannot be my difciple.’ Phil. iii.8. 9. ‘ Yea doubtlefs, and I count all thingsbut lofs, for the excellency of the know-2 2 Cbriji the Savitur of the world.ledge of Chrift Jefus my Lord ; for. whomI have fuffered the iof* of all thinga, and'do count them but dung that I may winChrtit, and bt found in him, not havingmine own righteouihels, which is of thelaw, but that which is through th* faith of,Chrift, the righteoufnefs, which is of God byfaith.*Mark 2. Laftly, ye will be groaning un-d*r the remains of the difeafe of fin ye arefaved from ; your confcience will witnefsye would be wholly rid of it. Rom. vii. 24,‘ O wretched man that I am, who lhall de¬liver me from the body of this death !*Your fouls will be longing for the com¬plete falvation; that the enemies you fee today, ye may fee no more for ever; that yemay get a complete victory over all your !corruptions, Rom. viii. 23. ‘ We ourfelvesgroan within ourfelves, waiting for the c.doption, to wit, the redemptioa of our bo¬dy.’Use lafl.Receive the Lord Jefus, then, O finners,in that charadter wherein hisFather fent him, :as the Saviour of the world, and your Savi¬our. Ye are loft in your fins, and loft underthe wrath of God. and the curfe ©f the law;come to him for his whole falvation. Em¬ploy him, put your cafe in his hand as yourSaviour by the Father’s appointment; andflight him no more.Motive 1. Gonfider you need a Saviour.thrift the Seviour of the wsrid. 23Your difesfe of fin will ruin you, if ye be notfaved from it. The guilt ef it will flake vouiknvn under wrath, and ;he wrath of God willfm 1 you unto hell. And while fin keeps itsifomimon over you, be fare the guilt is notremoved. Matth. ix. 12. ‘ They that be wholeneed not a phyhcian. but they that are fick.’Gen. ii. 17. ‘ But of the tree of knowledge,W good and evil thou flialt not eat of it: Forto the day that thou eateft thereof, thou flialtfurely die.’Mot. 2. There is no Sariour befides Chrift,Acts iv. 12. ‘ Neither is there falvation in anyother : For there is none other came underheaven given among men whereby we muftbe faved.’ All other are phyficiftns of novalue. All your own endeavours will notfave you, nor any thing any creature can dofor you.Mot. 3. Ke is able to fave you, Heb.vii. 25. ‘He is able to fave them to thefittermoft, that come unto God by him.”Whatever be your cafe, there is infinite me¬rit in his blood to take away the deepeftguilt, x John i. 7. ‘ The blood of JefusChrift his Son cleanfeth from all fin.” Thereis an infinite efficacy of his Spirit to fan&ifythe moft unholy. 1 Cor. vi. ji. ‘ And fuchWere fome of you: but ye are wafhed, butye are fanaified, but ye are juflified in the»ame of the Lord Jefus, by the Spirit ofour God,’ If ye doubt It, ye dilhonourChrift, and his Father who fent him. Plalm24 Cbrifi the Saviour of the world.Ixxxix. 19. 4 Then thou ipakeft in vifion t<f;thy hoty One, and faidft, I have laid helj|upon one that is mighty ; 4 have exalted one;chofen out of the people.’Mot. 4. He is'willing to fave you Rev. xxii*.17. ‘ And the1 Spirit and the bride fay, Gome,Ahd let him that heareth fay, Gome. And lethim that is athirft, come: Andwhofoever will*let him take the water oflifefreely.’ The onlything-wanting is your willingnefs to be faved*Jer. xiii. 27. ‘ Wo unto thee, O Jerulalem)wilt thtu be made clean ? when fha-d it oncebe ?’ There is no fear of beingTcjefted if ydcome, John Vi. 27. ‘ Him that comeih to hiraI will in n® wife call out.’ Pie has taken oilhim the office of Saviour ®f the world, andhe cannot refufe the bufinefs of it.Mot. 5. Laltly, Ye mull either receive hiidas your Savioiir from fin and wrath, accordsing to his cpmmiffion ; or ye will be, and beheld refufers of him for your Saviour, afterhis Father has nominated and commiffioneqhim for that effeSt. Confider how ye will ari-IVer that before the judgment .feat.Quell. How lhall I receive him,' and employhim ? Anf. By faith, by believing on him5,Being convinced of your fin ahd curfed flatef,^ and defiring to be faved from both believeGhrHt is yourSaviour by his Father's appoint?ment; and fo wholly trud on him as a cruc^fied SaViour. for his whole folvatkm oa theground of God’s faithfulnefs in his word.F I N I S.