THE.'75Briiifh Volunteers.fo WHICH ARB ADDED!GOD S A V E THE KING.M A L L Y B A N N.TIPPLING JOHN.JOHNY FAA, the GYPSIE LADDIE.G L A S G O W,Printed by J, 8c M, ROBf llTSON, S^tmarket,I ? 2 ’THE BRITISH VOLUNTEERS.BY MR. BURNS. TUNE—PUSH ABOUT TUB JORUM.DOE’S haughty Gaul invafion threat,^ then let the loans beware. Sir;There’s Wooden Walls upon 9ur feas,aad Volunteers on Ihore, Sir.The Clyde fliall rin to Tintock Tap,an* fSENLOMON loup to Gall’way,Ere we permit a Foreign Foeon British Ground to rallyiO let us not like fnarling tykes,in wrangling be divided.Till, flap come in an Unco Loun,and wi* a rung decide it !Be Britain Rill to Britain true,acnang ourfelves united ,For never but by British Handsmufl British Wrongs be‘righted.The Kettle o’ the Kirk and State,perhaps a Clout may fail in’t,But de’il a Foreign Tinkler Lounfhail ever Ca’ a Nail in't.Our Father’s Blude the Kettle bought,and uha wad dare to fpoil it!By Heaven! the Sacrilegious Dog> fhal! Fuel be t6 Boil it!The wretch that Would a Tyrant own,„ wretch his true-fworn brother.Who d fet ths Mon aboon the Tnaone,may they be daran’d together !Dot Save the Kino,mall hang as high’s the fleeple *But while we fmg, God Save the King,we’ll ne’er Forget the People.4 GOD SAVE T i E KING.GO D fave great George our King,Long live our noble King,God favc the King.Send nim vi<5torious.Happy and glorious.Long to reign over us,God lave the King!O Lord our God arife.Scatter his enemies.And make them fall.Confound their politics,Fruftrate their knavilh tricks jOn him our hopes are fix’d,: « O favc us all!Thy choiceft gifts in (loreOn him be pleas’d to pour*! Long may he reign!May he defend our laws,iAiui ever give us caufc,To ling with heart and voice,God fave the King.O! jrrsnt him long to feeFriendfliip and unity\lways iocreafe ;May he his feeptre fway,Al< loyal loulis obey, *■Jom heart and voice, huzza;God fave our King IM&LLY BaN?J.JA M1 £ R-A t'J D A L went a hunting,a hunting in the darkBut, to bis great misfortune,he did not mifs his matk :His love’s apron being about her,he took, her for a fw;>n.But alas! and for ever alas!it was fweet Mally flann."When he came up unto her,and found that dhe was dead.Great abundance of fait tearsfor his darling he {bed.He went home to his fatherwith his gun in his hand.Crying, Dear father, dear father,1 have Ihot Maliy Bann.His father looked upon him,.his hair being grey)Crymz, Oh 1 my dearett fon,you mult not run away:( 5 VStay at home in yo ir own country,let your trial come on;By the laws of fweet Ireland,vou (hall never be undone**Within two or three months after,to her uncle the appear’d , >Crying, Dear uncle, dear uncle,let Jamie Randal go free:For my apron beinij about me,he tooic me for a ^wan:But it is jb ! and ever alas !it was fvreet vlaily Bann.All the maidens in the country,they are ail veiy gladThat this beautiful, this lovely,this fait one was dead.She was the fbw’r of all the nation,the flower of Cohain ;The flower of all thr. nationwas fweet vlaily Bann,When the fair maids in the city,were affembled in a row,She appeared amongft themtike a mountain of> fnow.The flower of ail the nation,the flower of Cclrain,The flower of all the nationwas fweet Mally Bans*TIPPLING JOHN.AS tippling John was jogging on,upon a riot night.With tottering pace, and 6ery face,fufpicioos of high flight;The guards who took him by his look,for fome chief fiery-brand,Alk*d whence he came ? What was his name?who are you ? ftand friend, Hand.I'm going home, from meeting come,ay, fays one, that's the cafe }Some meeting he has burnt, you feethe flame's flill in his face.John thought it tme to purge his crime,and faid. My chief intentWas to affwage my thirfiy rage,i'ti>' meeting that 1 meant. - V 'Come, friend, be plain, you trifle in vain,fays one, pray let us know.That we may find how you’re inclin'd £are you High-Church or Low ?John laid to that. I'll tell you what,to end debates and ftrife,AH I can fay. this is the wayI fieer my courfe of life.I ne’er to Bow, nor Burgefs go,to ftecple-houfe nor ball,The hrilk bar-bell bch fuits ray-jzealwith gentlemen, d'ye call ?v / / •Guefs then, am l Low-Church cr High,from that toop’r, or no ftecplc,.‘Whofe merry toll exalts the foul,and muft make high-flown people!The guards came on, and look’d at Johnwith countenance raoft pleafant.By whifper round they all foon foundhe was no damag’d peafant:Thus while John flood the beft he cou’d,expe&ing their decifion ;Damn him, fays one, let him be gone,he’s of our own religion.John? Fa a the GvpsrE Laddie.Tf*e gypfles came to our good Lord’s gate,^ and vow but they fang fweetly;T hey fang fae fweet, and fae very complete,'that down came the fair Lady.&nd fhe came tripping down the flair,and a’ her maids before her;As focn as they faw her welf-far’d face,they cooft the glamer o’er her.lyae tak from me this gay mantle,and bring to me a plaidie,For if kith and kin, and a' had fworDiI’ll follow the gypfie laddie.Yeflreen i by in a well made bed,and my good Lord beflde t?ic j( 8 ).TMs night 1*11 ly in a tenant’s barn,whatever (hall betide me.Come to your bed. fays Johny Faa,oh come to >uur bed, my deary ;For I vow and fwear, bj^the hilt of my fword,that your Lord {hall nae mair come near ye,PH go to bed to iny fohny Faa,I’ll go to bed to my deary jFor [ vow and (wear by what paft yedreen,that my Lord (hall nae mair come near me,I’ll mak a hap to my Johny Faa.and 1*11 mak a hap to my deary,And he’s get a* the coat gacs round,and my Lord (hatHiae mair come near me.And when our Lord cams hame at cen,and (peer'd for his fair Lady,The tane (he cry’d, and the other reply’d,(he’s away with the gypfie Laddie.-Gae fad die to me the black black (teed,gae laddie and mukr him ready }Before that I either eat or deep,I'll gae feek my (air Lady.And vre were fifteen well-made men*altho’ we were nae bonny :And we were a’ put down (or ane,a fair young wanton Lady.GLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. Robertfen, SaUmarket, iSc*