T H Ert £Life and PropheciesO FMr. Alexander Peden,Late Minifter of the Gofpel,A TNEW GLENLUCE, in GALLOWAY.IN TWO PARTS.^p~»To ’which is added,His Remarkable Letter to die HifonersDunnotar-Caftle, July 1635.USj?UKD J_ BURQ^■i 5tiling. Printed in this Prefent VparT H ELife and PropheciesO FMr. Alexander PedensIN TWO PARTS.=0*PART I.MrAlexander Peden was born is the pr.rifiiof Som,inthe fliirifFdom of Ayr. After that he pafthis course At the College, he was employed for fomejtimetohe schoolmafter, prefeenter and felTlon-clerk toM1’. John Guthrie rainifter of the gofpel atTarbolton.When hewa,s About to enter on the miniftr-y, a youngwoman fell with child, in adultery, to a fervant in thehouse where he stayed ; when fhe found herle f to be lo,she told the father thereof, who laid, I’ll run for it, andto Ireland, father tt upon Mr Peden, he has moretohelp^«/ou to hrin^itup (he havipr'g a fmall heritage)than 1 have/The same da^that he was to get his li¬cence she came in before the Pfdibjtery and laid, I hearyouaregornglilicence Mr. Peden to be a mintfler ; but do itnot, for I am with child to him. He being without atthe- ttm£, was called in by the moderator; and beingcjue^athjhed about it, he faid, I an lurprifed, I cannotspeak ; but let none entertain an ill thought of me, for1 am utterly free of it, and God will vindicate mein hisown time and way. He went home, and walked at aavater-fide upwa.ds of 24 hours, and would neither eat»or drink, but laid, I have got what I was feeking, and2 will be vindicated, and that poor unhappy lafs will pay4e3f fot it in her life, and will make a dilmai end, and( 3 )for this furfeit of grief that flte hath' given nit, therJfliall never one of her fex conre into my bofom : And,accordingly, he never married. There are various re¬ports of ties w*y that he was vindicated : Some lay, thetime (he was in child-birth, Mr.^Guthrie charged her togive account who was the father of that child, and .dis¬charged the women to be helpful to her, until Ihe did it.Some fay that Ihe corbelled ; others, that Ihe remainedobhinate. Some of the people, when I made enquiryabout it in that countrywide, affirmed, that after thePrelbytery had been at all pains about it, and could getno fatisfatf’on, they appointed Mr Guihrie to give a fullrelation of the whole before the congregation, which,he did ; and the fame day the father of that child beingprefent, when he heard Mr. Guthrie begin to read, heflood np and dellred him to halt, and laid, “ I am the’■ father of that child, and l defired her to father it onMr. PeJen, which has been a great trouble of co.ilcienceto me ; and l could not get reft till I came home to de¬clare it."’ However it is certain, that after Ihe was■ married, every thing went crois to them •, and thevwent from place to place, and were reduced to greatpoverty. At laft foe came to that lame fpet of groundwhere he fhyed upwards of 24 hours, and made awaywith herfelf._ 2- Atter this he was three years fettled minifter at■New Gl-enluce in Galloway, and when he was obliged,' by ttm violence and tyranny of that time, to leave thatparilh, he lectured i. -on Acts xx. 17. to the end, andpreached upor* the a ill verlc in the fore.noon, A Thera-lore watch, and remember that for the jpace of threetyeays, 1 coaled not to warn every one, might and day: witn tears.'’ Affirting that he had declared the whole: counfel cf God, and had kept nothing back ; and pro-tteded t!iat he was free®! the blood of all fouls .Andm tire afternoon, he preacbeaon the 3 2d verfe, « And.ao-v, brethren, 1 commend you to God, and to the WOrd 1Jut his grace, which is able to build you up, and to pive( 4 r you an inheritance among all them vvho are fandlified.”Wiiich was a weeping d-ay in that kirk ; the greateft partcould not contain themlelves : He many times requelted'them to be Silent; but they lorrowed mofi of all, whenhe fold them that they fhould never fee his face in that!pulpit again —He continued until night ; and when he:doled the pulpit door, he knocked hard upon it threetimes with his Bible, faying three times over I arreft inmy Maher’s name, that never one enter there, ^utfuch as come in by the door, as I did Accordingly,neither curate nor indulged minifter ever entered thatpulpit, until after the revolution, that a hrefbyterianminiher opened itI had the account from old perfons in that parifh,who were v/itnefies to it, worthy of all credit3. After this he joined with that hone ft and zealoushandful in the year 1666, that was broken at Pentland-hills, and came the length ol Clyde with them, wherehe had a melancholy view of their end, and parted with;them there James Cubifon, of Paluchbeaties, my in¬former, to*whotn he told-this, he fald to him, “Sir,you did well that parted with them, feeing you wasperfuaded they would fall and flee before the enemy.Glory, glory to God, that he font me not to hell imme¬diately ! for i fliould have frayed with them though Ifhould have been cut ail in pieces ”4 That night the Lord’s people fell, and fled beforethe enemy at Pentland-hills, he was in a friend’s lioiftein Garrick, fixty miles from Edinburgh , his landlordfeeing him mighty troubled, enquired how it was withhim; he laid, “ fo-morrow i will fpeak with youanti delired feme candle. that night he went to bed,thr next morning calling early to his landlord, faui, :I have fad news to tell you, our friends that weretogether in arms, appearing for Chrift’s intereft, arenow broken, killed, taken and fled eyery man.’ —iHe laid, “ Why do yo*i Ipeak fo ? i’here as a great partj;of our friends prifoners in Acftnburgh.” About forty- s(• r reight hours thereafter, they were fully confirmed inthe truth of it. ^After this, in June 1673, he was taken by Ma¬jor Cockburn, in the houle of Hugh Fergufon, ofKnockdow, in Carrick, who coiiftrained him to tarry altnight. Mr. Peden told him, that it would be a dearnight’s quarters to them both. Accordingly they wereboth carried prifoners to Edinburgh. Hugh Fergufonwas fined in a thoufaad nierks, for reletting, harbouringand conversing with idm. The council ordered fiftypounds fteriingto be pal * to the Major out of the fines,and ordained him to divide twenty-five pounds fterlingamong the p^rty that apprehended him. home timeafter examination, he was fint prifoner to the Bafs,where, and at Edinburgh, he remained until December1678, that he was banitbed.6. While prifoner in the Bafs, one Sabbath-morning#being about the public worfhip of God, a young laf?about 13 or 14 years of age, came to the chamber-doormocking wbh loud lauglner : He find, “ Poor thing,thou mocks and laughs at the worfhip of God, but eralong God fhall write fucha hidden furpriiing judgmenton thee,.that fhall fiay thy laughing, and thou ihalt notefcape it.” Very fiiortly afret, fhe was walking upo*the rock, and there came a blafi of wind and fweepeaLher into the fea, where ihe perifhed.While prifoner there, one day walking upon tlie rock,fome foldiers pafiTng by him, one of them faid, “Duvilr take him. He fai.l, “ Fy, fy, poor man, thou knoweftnot what thou art faying y but thou wilt repent that/*'1 At which word the ioldier flood aftonifiied, and wentto the guard diftrafted, crying aloud for Mr Peden,faying, the devil would immediately take him away;He came to him again, and found him in his right mind,under deep convictions of great guilt. The guard being;tto change, they defired him to go to his arms; he re¬filled, and faid,he would lift no arms againft jefus Chrifthis cayfc, and perfecqte his people, he had done that too.A 3 ' - '( % )Ipng. The governor threatened him with death to¬morrow about ten of the clock; he confidently laid threetimes, though he ftiould tear all his body in pieces, hefhould never lift arms that way. About three days after,the governor put him out of the gnrrifon, t«tting him :afhote He having a wife and children, took a houfein Eat! Lothian, where he became a lingular Chriftlan;Mr Peden told thefe aftonifiiing pafiages to the foretfaidJohn Ciibilbn and others, who informed me.7. V/hpn brought from the fials to Edinburgh, andfentence of bandhment pafied upon him in Dec. 1678,and fixty mere fellow-prifoners, for the fame came, togo to America, never to be i'een in Scotland again, tin- .tier the pain of death; after this lenience was pair,he feveral times find, that the fhip was not yet builtthat fhould take him and thefe prifoners to Virginia,or any other of the EnglUh plantations in America —One James Kay, a folid and grave Chriftian, being oneof them, who lives in or about the Water of Leith,told me, that Mr Peden find to him, “ James, whenyour wife comes in. let me lee her ;” which be uid.After lome difeourie, he called for a drink, and whenhe fought a blefiing, he Faid, “ Good Lord, let notJames Kay’s wife mils her hufband, till thou return himto her in peace and fafety; which wC are lure will beIboner than either he or (he is looking for.” Accord¬ingly^ the fame day month that he parted with her atLeith, he came home to her at the Water ot 1 eith.”8. When they were on ihipboard at the Water otLeith, there was a report, that the enemies were tolend down thumbkins to keep them from rebelling ;al the report of this, they were difeouraged : Mr Pe. a»came above the deck and laid, « Why are ye difeourag¬ed ? You need not fear, there will neither thumbkins,nor booikins come here : lift up your hearts and heads, ;for the day of your redemption draweth near ; it we■were once at London, we will be all fet at liberty.”—-And when lading in the voyage, praying pubiidy, he(?)fa;cl, “ Lord, fuch is the enemies hatred at thefj and: malice at us, for thy fake, that they will not let us ftay,in thy land of Scotland, to ferve thee, tho’ lome ot ushave nothing; but the canopy of thy heavens above us,and the earth to tread upon but, Lord, we bids thyname, that will cut t'hort our voyage, and ftofirate thyenemies of their wMced defign, thatthey will not get uswhere tlwy intend ; and lome of us lliall go richer homethan we came hom home.” James Pride, who livedin Fife, art honeft man,. being one of ihern, he laidniBny times, he could affert the truth of th’.-yfor he camef.ifely home, and betide other things, he bought twoco ws, ai\d before that, he never had one. I had thefeaccounts both from the forefaitl James Kay, and Ro¬bert Punten, a known public man, worthy of all credit,who was alfo under the lame fentence, who lived inthe parifh of Dalmony, near Queensfevry.When they arrived at London the fkipper whoreceived them at Leith, was to carry them no farther ;the ikipper, who was to receive them there, and carrythem to Virginia, came is fee them, they being repre-fented to him as thieves, robbers, and e hl-doersj butwhen' he found they were all grave Chriftian men,banilhed for Prefb rerun principles, he laid he wouldlail the fea with n ne iuch in thh confulion, :hat theone Ikipper would not receive them, anti the otherwould ketp them no longer, being expenlive to main¬tain tnem, they were al let at liberty Others reportedthat both Ikippers got compiim-nts from friends atLondon ; however, it is certain they were iafety letfree, without any impofition of ootids or oaths ; andfriends at London, and in their way homewards thro’•j England, Ihewed much kindnefs unto them10. Phat difmal day, June aad 1679, at Bothwel-; bridge, that the Lord’s people fell, and fled before thet enemy, he was forty miles dilbnt, ne.tr tr.c border,and kept himlelf retired until the middle of the day,t that feme friends Laid to hun, “ bir, the people are( 3 )waking for lefmon.” He faid, “Let the people gototlielr prayers : for me, I neitker can nor will preach anythis clay; for our friends are fallen, and fled before theenemy at Hamilton ; and they are hanging and hafhingthem down, and their blood is running like water.”- 11. After this, he was preaching in Galloway : in theforenoon he prayed earncftly for he prifoners takenat and about Bothwell; but in the afternoon, when hebegan ro pray for them,he halted and laid, “Our friendsat li hnburgh, the prifoners, have done fomething tofave their lives that lhall not do with them, for thefea-btlfews fhail be many of their winding-Iheets ; and thefew of them that efcane, ihall not be ufeful to God intheir generation.” Which was fadly verified there¬after. That which the greateft part of thefe priloners; did, was the taking of that bond, commonly called thei Black Bend, after Bothvel, wherein they acknowledged! their appearance in arms, for the defence of the goipeland their own lives, to be reaelhon ; and engagedthemfelves never to make any more oppefuion : Upon •j the doing of which, thefe perfidious enemies promifedI them life and liberty. This, with the curled and fub-! die arguments and advices of minillers, who went intothe New Yard, where they were prifoners, particu' :larly Mr. Hugh Kenedy, Mr. William Crighton,Mr. Edward Jamiefbn, and Mr. George Johnfton ;thefe took their turn in the yard, where the prilbnerswere, together with a letter that was lent from thatEraftian meeting of miniflers, met at Edinburgh inAuguff 1679, for the acceptance of a third indulgence,with a cautionary bond. NctwitMlanding of the ene¬mies’promife, and the unhappy advice of min liters notindulged, after they were enfnared in this foul com¬pliance, they banifhed 255, whereof 205 perifhed inthe Orkney-fea. This foul ftep, as feme of them told,both in their life, and when dying, lay heavy uponthem all their days ; and, that thefe unhappy argu¬ments and advices ef jninifters, prevailed more withK 9them than the enemies’ promife of life and liberty.In Auguft 1679, fifteen of Bothwel prilomrs gotindictments of death Mr Edward Jamielon, a v* orthyPrefbyterian miniifer, as Mr Woodrow calls him,was lent fom that Eraftian meeting of minifittrs, intothe Eolbooth to thefe fifteen, who, utged the lawful-net's of taking the bond to fave their lives ; and therefufal of it would be a rc-fletfion to re igion, and thecaufe they had appeared for ; and a throwing awaytheir lives, for which their friends would not be able jto vindicate them He prevailed with thirteen ofthem, which toured in the ftomaehs of feme of thefethirteen, and lay heavy upon them both in theb lifeand death The pri&ners taken at and about the timeof Bothwel, were reckoned about fifteen hundred.The faithful Mr. John Biackader did write ro thefeprifoners, diffuading them from that foul compliance/;and fome worthy perfons of thefe prifoners, whom hewrote to, faid to me with tears, that they flighted idsadvice, and fwal!owred the unhappy advices oi thefenii-mhers who were making peace with the enemies ofGod, and followed their foul heps, for which theywould go mourning to their graves I heard the fameMr. Biackader preach his laft public fermon, before hisfalling into the enemies’ hands, in the night-time inthe fields, in the pariih of Livingftone, upon the fide,of the Muir, at Ncw-hcufe, ou the 23d of March,after Bcthwel, where he lectured upon Micah iv. fromthe p'h verfe, where he afferted, That the nearer thedelivery, our pains and fhowers would come thickerand forer upon us ; and that we' had been long in thefields, but ere we were delivered, we would go down,to Babylon. That either hop ry would overfpreadthis land, or be at the breaking in upon us, like aninundation of water. And preached upon that text,JLct no man be moved with ihefe afflictions, for ye your-fives know, that ye are appointed thereunto. W herehe inlifted on what qiev.ng and (baking difpenlations ( I© )tbt Lord had exereifed his people with in former ages, ,efpecially that man of God; that went to Jeroboam at fBethel, and delivered his ccmtniffior. faithfully, and yet !(was turned out of the way by an olei lying prophet ; 'hoiv moving and ftumb'ing the manner of his death ;was to all Ifrael ! And earnelHy reeptefted us to take!good heed to what mini iters we heard, and what advicewe followed When he prayed, he blefied the Lordthat'he was free of both band and rope ; and that hewas as clearly willing to hold up the public b.eft ftand-ard of the gofpel as ever : And faid, “ The Lord re¬buke, give repentance and forgivenefs to thefe mini-fters that perfuaded thefe prifoners to take that bond.” !For their perifhing by fea, was more moving and (hock¬ing to him, than if fome thoufands of them had been,flain in the field. lie was thereafter taken, the 6thof April, by Major Johnfton, in Edinburgh, and de¬tained prifoncr in the Bafs, where he died, As theinterefi: of Chrift lay near his heart through his life,amongft his laft words he faid, ‘‘ The Lord will defendhis own caufe.”i 2 After the public murdering of thefe two worthywomen-martyrs, ifabel Alifon and Marion Harvie,in the Grafs-market of Edinburgh, January 1681, hewas in Gilloway; a profefior of fome note, who hadmore carnal wit and policy than to fuller him to behonefi: and faithful, after reafonmg upon the groundspf their fuffering", tfilrmed that, they would never bereckoned among the number of the martyrs. Mr Pedtfhfaid, after mufing a little, “Let alone, you will neverbe honoured with fuch a death : And for what youhave faid a gain ft thefe two worthy lalles, yonf deathwill be both hidden and furprifing ’ Which wasvery fhonTy thereafter; the nun handing beforethe fire, fmocking his p!p^» dropt downdeaa, and thatwithout fpeaking more13. In the month of June 1682, he was in the homeof James Brown, in Paddockholm, above Eouglas, John( li ) -Wilton in Lanark was with him, who fuhhreri martyr¬dom in the Grafs-market of Edinburgh the next year,May 1683 ^ He lectured at night upon Amos viii.and repeated thefe words in the 9th verfe, three times,1 ’will rife ngaiffe the hoife of Jeroboam ’withthe/word. He laid his hand on the faid John, and faid,“ Encourage yourfelf in the Lord, and hold him faft,John, for you will win up yonder fhortly, and get onyour braws.” That night he went to the fields ; andto-morrow, about fix o^lock, John went to feek him,and found him coming to the houfe. He faid, “ Johnlet us go from this houfe, for the devil is about if*and will take his prey with him.” John faid, “ Wewill take breakfaft ere we go, it is a queftion whenwe will get the offer again.” He anfwered, “No, no,I will not eat bread in this place, our landlord is anunhappy man, the devil will get him fhortly, for hewill hang himfelf,” Which very fhortly came to pafs:His daughter, Jean Brown, was the firft that got himin her arms, hanging in the ftable. She was reckonedby all, to be a grave Chriffian lafs, but from that daynever had her health, and died of a decay at laft, afterfire had been fome time in prifon for her principles.J his pafiage the fame John Willon reported feveraltimes to many, and feme alive can bear witnefs t«;he truth of it.M- In the year 1680, after the murdering ofMr. Cameron, and theie worthies with him at Airdf-mcfs, he was near Machlioe, in the fibre of Ayr •one Robert Brown, of Crofs-houfe, who lived nearNew-Mills, and one Hugh Pinaneve, fatter to the Earfif Lothian, flabled their horfes in that home where he**5, and went to a fair in Machline ; and, in the'after-loon, when they came to take away their horfes, theyjot a drink, and in the time of pit, the faid Hugh,1 wicked wretch, both in principle and prattice, broke3ut m a railing againft fefferers, particularly agamftMr. Cameron; Mr. Peden being in another room ©vm-( 12 )hearing all, was fo grieved, that he came to th° cham¬ber-door, and faid to the faid Hugh, “ Sir, hold yourpeace, e’er xtwelve o’clock thou ihalt know what fora man Mr. Cameron was, God (hall punifh that biaf-phemous mouth, and curfed tongue of yours, in fuch.a manner, as (hall be aitonifhing ro all that fliall fee you,and fliall fet you up a beacon to all railing Rablhakehs.”Robert Brown knowing Mr. Peden, halted to kis horfe,being perfuaded that Mr. Peden’s words would not fallto the ground, and fearing that fome mifchief mightbefal him for being in the faid Hugh’s company, herode hard heme. Robert went to his own houfe, andHugh to the Earl’s houfe, and calling olF his boots,he was {truck with fuch a ficknefs and pain throughhis body, with his mouth fo wide, and his tonguehanging fo far out, in a fearful manner, that they fentfor the faid Robert. Being ufed to take blood, he gotfome blood of him, but all in vain : he died before mid-• night. Phe laid Robert, an old man, told me thispallage when in prifon together., 15. In the year 1682, he was in Kyle, and preached: upon that text, '77v plowers plowed upon my bncky, and drew long their furrows. Where he faid, “ Wouldj ye know who firlt yoked this plow ? [t was curled1 Cain, when he drew his furrows fo long and deep,.\ that he let out the heart-blood of his brother Abel ;j and his curfed feed has, and will gang fummer andl winter, frail and frelh weather, till the world’s end ;t ana at the found of the lalt trumpef, when all are inj a flame, their theets will burn, and their fwingle-trees^ will tail o the ground ; the plowmen will lofe their i% gripes of the plow, and the gadmen will throw away;t then gads ; and then, O the yelling and Ihrt king that,^ will be , mnng all this curfed feed, clapping their hands, ?anti ryu g to the hills and mountains to cover them.c from the face of the Larnb, and of him that firs upon :the throne, for their hatred of him, and malic* at hispeople.” ,( r3 )After fermon, when marrying a pair of folks, whenthe man had the woman by the hand, he faid, “ In¬deed man you have a bonny bride by the hand, l feea covetous devil in her ; Ihe is both a thief and a whore,let her go, you will be afhamed of her.’' The man keep¬ing faft her hand, he faid. <l You will not take my ad¬vice, but it will tend to thy difgrace.” After marriage,when praying, he faid, “ Good Lord, many a plowhath been yoked on the back of the church in Scotland,Pagans yoked theirs, Antichrift yoked his, and Prelacyhers, and now the plagued Eraftian indulged, they haveyoked theirs, and it ill becomes them ; good Lord cuttheir t’uect% that the fwingle trees m?y fall to thej ground." Enfign John Kirkland was witnefs to thisfermon and msrriage ; he was my dear acquaintance,who told me feveral times of this, and more of that fer-man.16. About the fame time, he was marrying two pairof folks, he faid to the one, “ Stand by, I will not mar¬ry you this day." The bridegroom was anxious to knowthe reafon, after enquiring privately, he faid, “ Youwill th*nk me for this afterwards, and think yourfelf> well quat of her, for Ihe is with child to another wife’s- hufband which was matter of fa£t, as time afterwardsi uifeovered.17. Shortly after that fad ftroke at Bothwel, he> went to Ireland, but did not ftay long at that time ; in! his travels through Galloway, he came to a houfe, and■ looking in the goodman’s face, he faid, “ They callyou an honeft man, but'if you be lb. you look not likeit, you will not long keep that name, but will difeoveryourl'elf to be what you are." And fhortly after, hewas made to flee for fheep-ftealing In that fhortthnehe was in Ireland, the Governor required of all prefby-terian ininifters that were in Ireland, that they fhouldgive it under their hanc?, that they had no acceffion tothe late rebellion at Bothwel-bridge, in Scotland, and.■'that they did not approve of it: which the moft part( M )did, ard fent Mr. Thomas Govvans a Scotfmnn, and oneMr. Paton from.the north of Ireland to Dublin, to pre-fent it to the Lord Lieutenant, the which, when Mr.Peden heard, he faid, “ Mr. Gowans and his brotherMr. Paton are fent and gone the devil’s errand, butGod will arreft them by the gate ” Accordingly.Mr.Govvans by the way was ftruck with a fore ficknefs, andMr. Paton fell from his horfe, and broke or crullied hisleg, and both oithem were detained beyond expefiation.| I had this account from fome worthy Chriftians when Iwas in Ireland.18, In the year 1682, he married John Drown inKyle, at his own houie in Priefthall, that fingularChriftian, upon Marion Weir; after marriage he faidto the .bride, “ Marion, you have got a good man to jbe your hufband, bu> you will not enjoy him long ; jprize his company, and keep linen by you far his wind¬ing fhee't, for you will need It, when you are not look¬ing for it, and it will be a bloody one.”This came fadly to pafs in the beginning of May,13685, as afterwards ihall appear. '19. After this in the year 1082, he went to Irelandagain, and came to the houie of William Steel in G!en-wharry1, in the county of Antrim, he enquired at Mrs,Steel, if fee wanted a fervant for threlhing victual ? 1She faid, they did, and enquired what his wages werea-day, or a-vveek. He laid, The common rate was acommon rule ; to which fee affented. At night he wasput to the barn to bed with the fervant lad) and thatmight he fpent in prayer and groaning, up and downthe barn. To-morrow he threfeed victual with the lad,amt the next night he fpent the fame way ; the fecond(day in the morning, the lad faid to his miftrefs, thisman fleeps none, but groans and prays all night; I getbo fleep tor him He threfees very well, and is not fpar-jng of himfelf, though I think he has not been ufetlwith it; for he can do nothing to the botteling and or-'sled»6 of the barn ; and when I put the barn in order.v 15 ) • 'kd gees to fush a place, -«nd there he prays for the af-flidted church of Scotland, and names lo many people inthe furnace. Me wrought the tecond day, and hisrhiftrefs v atched and overheard him praying, as the ladhad faid •, at rji; lit lire dehred her -hufband to enquire ifhe was a minifter, whiJr lie did, and detlred hint to hefree with him, arid he thould not'only be no eiiemy tohim, but,a friend to him. Mr. Peden faid he was nutafhamed of his offitc aiid gave an ateoynt of his circ nv-ftances : he was no more fet to work, nor to lie withthe lad, and he ftai.i a confid.cable time in that place,and was a b etTed inftrument' in the conversion of lome,and civilizing of others, though that p ace was riotedfor a wild, rude people, and the fruit oi his labour ap¬pears unto this day. ’ here was a t rvant-ials in thathoufe, that he could net look upon but w th frowns, andfometimes when at fami-y-worlhip he faid, pointing toher with a frowning countenance, “ You come fromthe barn and from the byre, reeking in your lufts, andfits down among us, we do nor want you nor none {uch.’>At laft he laid to William Steel and his wife, “ Put ithat unhappy lals from your houfe, for file vrill be a ftainto your family, for file is with child and will murder it,and will be puniflied for the fame which accordinglycame to pafs, and Ine was burnt at Craig Fergus, whichis tire ulual punifhment of murderers of children there.I had this account from John Muirhead who {laid much* in that l.ioufe, and ether Chriilian people when I was■ in Ireland.20 On the-feconcl of Anguft, 1684, lie was in aChridian Scots woman’s hou'te, called Margaret Lum-1 bernor ; that dry there was an extraordinary {Lower ofI jig bnl, iuch as he had never feen the like. She laid,J ivnat can be the meaning of this extraordinary hail ? he’Mi l, “ Within a fsw years there will be an extraordi¬nary ftorm and ihower of judgment poured out upon.reland ; but Margaret, you fiiall not live to fee it.’*-^n 1 accordingly fhedied before that rebellion ; and the'•eft had a lad accptrp'jihuvent at Derry, and the waterof boyn,.( * <5 )21. On the fecond of Februa y, 1685, hew^sin thehoule of ofle Mr. Vernor, at night he and John Kil¬patrick, Mrs. Vernor’s father, a very old worthy Chiif-tian, he faid to him, “ John the world may vveel wantyou and me,” John fain, “Sir I have been very fruit-lefs and uieiefs all my days, and the world may wellwant me, but your death will be a great lofs ” “ WellJohn, laid he, you and 1 ihall be both in heaven fhort-,ly ; but though you be much older than I, my foul willget the fordfart of yours, for l will be fir ft in heaven ;but your body will get the advantage of mine, for yewill get reft in your grave unt 1 the relurreffon ; but ;for mej I muft go to the bloody 'and ^this was his or¬dinary way of fpeaking, bloody.or finful land, when hefpake of Scotland) and die there ; and he enemies out!of their great wickednels, will lift my ccrpfe into ano-!ther place ; but I am Vc ry indifferent John, for f knowmy body_fhall lie among the dull: of the martyrs, andthough they Ihould take my old bones and make whiff¬les of them, they will all be gathered together, in themorning of the rdudredfon ; and then, John, you andI, and ail that will be found having on Chrift’s right-eoufnefs, will get day-about with them, and give ourhearty affect to their eternal fenteace of damnation.”The fame night after this difeourfe, while about familyworfldp, about to or 11 o’clock, explaining the portion:of krip.ure he read, he luddenly halted and hearkened,arid faid three times over, What’s this 1 hear'’ andhearkened again a little, and clapt his hands and laid,<£ I hear a dead fliot at the throne of Britain, let himgo yonder, he has been a bla'ck ns hr to thefe hnds,efpecially to pocr Scot and : we arc all quit of him ;there has been many a wafted prayer wared on him.”And it was concluded by all, the fame night, that un- 1happy man Charles If. died. I had this account fromJohn Muirhead and others who were prefent, and con¬firmed in the truth of it, by lotne worthy Chriftians ■when 1 was in Ireland.. . 'jV)22. Upon the 4th of February 1^85, he preached ata woodfide near the {'aid JVir. Vernor’s houfe j he readthe whole of the xlix pfatrn \ after reading, he chargedhis hearers, that none of them open their mouths ro ling,but thofe that could do it knowingly and believingly ;for Ibme few lines few opened their mouths ; but asJohn Muirhead and John Waddel, who were prefent,(two folid Ch-iitians and great lufferers, who lived anddied in the pariflies of Gambufhethen and Shots,) (aidto me, they and fome others, could not Contain and for¬bear finging, but broke out with their whole iiearts andwhole ftrength, fo that they were never wltnefs to fuchloud tinging, through the whole pialm After thefing-irg, in prefacing, he cried out, “ Pack and let us go toScotland, let us flee from one devouring fword and goto another; the poor honeft lads in Scotland, are run¬ning upon the hills, and have little of either meat ordrink but cold and hunger •, and the bloody enemy arepurfuing and murdering them, wdierever they find themtheir biood is running like water upon fcaffolds andfields; rife, go and take part with tlrem, for we fear|they bar us out of heaven. Oh ! fecure Ireland, a*dreadful day is coming upon thee within a few yeans,’1that they lhall ride many miles, and fh&ll not fee areek-ijag hou!e in thee; Oh ! hunger, Derry, many a palefate {hall be in thee; and fire, fire upon a town, whofeiname 1 have forgot, which vas all burnt to aihes. Thishad an exadt accomplilhment four years thereafter. Andfor the profanity ; f England, the formality and lecurityof Ireland, for the loathing and contempt of the goi-pel, covenant breaking and innocent blood-lhed inScotland, none of thefe lands /hall efcape, ere all bedone. But notwithftanding of all this, 111 tell yougood news, keep in mind t]iis year, month and day.and remember that I told you that the enemies have gota fhot beneath their right wing, and they may rife andfly like a fhoc-bird, but ere this day feven years, theitxongeft of .thein all fhall fall.” -Then upon the fixih*.C *8 )he was in that wood all day, and at night he eame tothe faid Mr. Vtrnor's houfe, where levefal of otir Scotstufferers were ; he It id, “ Why are ye i'o difcouraged ?I know ye have got ill news of the dreadful murder ofour friends in Scotland ; but l will tell you good news,that unhappy, treacherous, lecherous man, who hasmade the Lord’s people in Scotland tremble thefe yearsbygone, has got his lafl glut in a lordly difh from hisbrother and he is lying with his tongue cold in hismouth” The news of this came nc-t to Ireland for24 hours ’hereafter. The forefaid John Muirh ad andJohn Waddcl, and others of our Scots iufferers, who :had heard him preach the Sabbath-day btfore con-cludrd this was the fhot beneath the right wing that hefpoke ef, Charles II. dying the Friday’s night Before.23 After this he longed to be out cf Ireland, what .through the fearful appreher.flons of that difmal day ofrebellion in Ireland that came upon it four years there-nfier, and that he might take part with the fufferers cf .Scotland. He came near the coaif one morning ; JohnMuirhead came to him lying within a hedge : he laid,“ Have ye any news, John r” John faid, “ There isgreat fear of the Irifh atrfing ” He faid. No no, John :the time cf their ariling was noi yet; but they will rileand dreadful will it be at laft. He was lang detainedwaiting fo - a bark, not daring to go to public ports, butto fome remote creek of the fea—Alexander Gordon ofKinftuir, in Galloway, had agreed with one, but Mr.Pedea would not fail the fea with him, having Ibmetorefight of what he did prove afterwards. In the be- ;ginning of Auguft, before tnis Kinftuir was relievedat Enter ken path, going from Dumfries to Edinburgh,priioner, when the news of i canv to Ireland, ourScots fuTerers their a quaintar.ee were glad of the newsel'pecialiv that Kiolluir hau efcaped. He faid, ‘f Wbafmean all this Kinfluiring ? here is fome cf them re¬lieved there, that one of them is worth many of him ;-for all w*U be afhamtd of hinr ere all be done.’’ Being;( l9 )In this ftrait, he fakl to Robert Wark, an old worthyChriftian, worihy of credit, ‘‘ Robert, go and takefuch a man with 5 on, and the hrfl bark ye can find, com¬pel them, for they will be like the dogs in Egypt, notone of them will move their tongue againft you.” |Accordingly, Robert and his comrade found it out fo, |and brought her to that freret place where he was.When Robert and his comrade came and told him, he ,was glad, and very kind and freej but he feemed un¬der a cloud a; that time. He fa'id, “Lads, I have loft'my profpedk wherew'kh I was wont to look over tothe bloody land, and tell you and others, what enemiesand friends were doing : the devil and 1 puddles andrides time about upon one another ; but it 1 were up-pennoft again, I Ihall ride hard, and fpurgaw well :1 have been praying for a fwift paffage over to the fin,- 1fill land, come of us what will. And now AlexanderGordon is away with my prayer-wind ; but it weregood for the remnant in Scotland, he never law it; for.as the Lord lives, he flrali wound that fntereft ere hego off the ftage.”This fadiy came to pafs in his life, and was a re¬proach to it at his death.—A little before they came off,he baptited a child to John Maxwell, a Glafgow-man, 'who was fled mer from the perfection : in his diicourfebefore baptifm, he burft out into a rapture, foretelling,that black day that was to come upon Ireland, and faddays to Scotland, and after all this was to come gooddays. Mrs. Maxwell or Mary lilphingfton, the mo¬ther of the child, yet alive in Glafgow, told me this,that in the time he was aflerting thele things, fhe wasthinking and wondering what ground of affurance Ikhad for them, he cried aloud, fhaking his hand at her.and laid, “ Woman thou art thinking and wonderingwithin thyfelf, whether I be fpeaking thole thfngs ou;of the vifions of my own head, or if i be t, tight by th<[Spirit of God ; i tell thee woman, thou ihait live amice that 1 am not miftaken.( 20 )\S!ie told me, that Hie was very lately delivered, andout of her great defire to have her child baptized be¬fore he came ©ff, that the took travail too foon ; asdbeing weak, and fo fufprifed with telling her thethoughts of her heart, that fhe was in danger of falling-’oil'the chair.— At this exercile alio he told them, thathe could not win off-till he got this done, and this wasall the drink money he had left in Ireland, and to thefamily, (pointing to the landlord) for all the kindneis-he had met with from them After baptifm thyy got.breakfaft ; there was plenty of bread upm the table,:and feeking a blefling, he put his hand beneath thebread, holding it up with much affeftiou and tears, faid,“ Lord, there is a well-covered fable, and plenty ofbread j but what comes of the poor young kindly honefllail Renwick, that fhames us ail, in itavingand holding,up his fainting mother’s head, when of all the children ;fhe has brought forth, there is none will avowedly takeher by the hand ; and the poor, cold hungry Ihds uponthe hills ? For the honour of thine own caul'e, let them ,net ftarve : thou caufed a ravenous bird, greedy of3fteih itfelf, to feed Elijah ; and thou fed thy people inthe wildernefs with angels food; and blefled a fewvloaves and fmall fillies, and made them fufficient for ma¬ny ; and had experience of want, wearinefs, cold and ,,hunger, and enemies daily hunting for thy life, while ;In the world : look to them, and provide for them. ’We will get the black ficne for leaving him and them.”)—The waiters being advvertifed of the bark being in .that place, they and other people came upon them,.,which obliged them that were to come off, tc fecure ithe waiters and people altogether, for fear of the gar-Jrifbn of Carnckfergus apprehending them, being near *to it, which obiiged them to come oft' immediately,.however it might be with them. After that he andtwenty-fix of our Scots fufferers came aboard, he Hood supon the deck and prayed, there being not the leaft iwind, where he made a rehearfal of times and placesaJ)( 21when and where the Lord had heard and anfweredthem ia the day of their diftrefs, and now they werein a great ftrait Waving his hand to the weft, fromwhence he deiired the wind, and faid, a Lord give usa loof-full of wind : Fid the fails, Lord, and give us afreiii gale, and let us have a fwift paffage over to thebloody land, come of us what will.”—John Muirhead,Robert Warlc, and ethers who were prefent, told me,that when he began to pray, the fails were all hangingftraight.down; but ere ite ended, they were all likeblown bl idders : they put out the waiters and o'herpeople, and got a very iwift and fafe pafiage. Thetwenty-fix Scots fufferers that were with him, havingprovided thecnfelves with arms, and being defigned toreturn to Scotland, there being then’ fuch a noile ofTilling, and indeed the din was no greater than thedeed, it being then in the heat of killing time, in theend of February, 1685,-. when at exercift in the B>rkfhe faid, <• Lord thou knoweft thefe lads are hot fpirit-ed, My an arreft upon them, that they may not app ar ;their time is not yet: though Monmouth ana Argyle becoming, they will work no deliverance ” At t at timethere was no report of their coating, for they came notfor ten wr.eks thereafter. In the morning after theylauded," he lectured before they parted, fitting ! p: n abraefide, where he had fearful threatnings ugainft Scot¬land, faying, the time was coming, that they mighttravel many miles in Gdloway and Nithft ale, Ayr audClydefUaie, and not fee a reeking houfe, ncr hear acock crow. And further faid, that his foul rembled tothink, wiiat would become of the indulged, oackfliddenand upfitten minifters of Scotland j as the Lord lives,:none of them fir all eve’- be honoured, to put a right pinin the Lord’s tabernacle, nor sfiert Chrift’s kingly pre¬rogative, as head and king of his church To the famepurpofe, laid the never-to-be-forgotten Mr. DonaldCargill, within eight hours o his martyrdom, that hefeared, though there were not another miniftry in a sithe earth, he would make no more ufe of them in arational reformation; but fend dreadful judgments upontheinfelves, and a.long carfe upon( their poiterity.Mr. Rutherford fan’, in Ids day, 1656, that tad andeheavy were the judgments and indignation from the'Lord,, that was abiding the unfaithful watchmen oft6Scotland : meaning the unhappy Reiolutioners. When ;ended, he prayed earnetlly for many things ; particu- ilarly, that all the fins thay had committed in Ireland,;?Jtbjht be buried in that plac v and might not {preach?with them through the finfu! land.24 When the greater part took their fard^vell of1him, he {'aid to the reft, To what licufe or place {hall:we go ? One Hugh Kennedy faid, We will go to lucha houfe. He faid, Hewie, we will not get in our nofe:there ; for the devil and his bairns arc there. Not-withftanding Hugh went, and found the houfe full eftthe enemies, and that night a woman in the houfe made,away with herfeif. Hugh came quickly back and toldhim He faid, we will go to fuch a houie, I have anerrand, there. ..When they went,ihe goodwife was dy¬ing, under great doubts and fears ; where he was a olei-fed mftrument of comfort to her ; and laid to Hugh,Hewie, this is the errand I had here.2^. i hey went eaftward fomevvhat contrary to hisinclination, they came to th6 top of an hill upwards oftwo nfiies diftant from the place they defigned, he bait¬ed and faid, “ 1 will not go one foot further this way ; 'there is undoubtedly danger before us. Ac iuri ladfeeing there, he gave him a groat, and uHired luoa to.go to that houfe, and fetch him meat and news. \\ nenthe lad came to the houle, the good wife haded and gavehim meat to them, faying, ‘-.Lid, run hard, and tell1 them, that the enemies are (pread, and we are iootvingfor them here every minute.” As the lad was goingfrom the home, eighteen of the enemies foot werenear, crying, hand nog The lad ran, anu fix of thempurfued half a mile, and fired hard upon him ; oa.i( 2^ )rent clofe by liis head. All that time Mr. Peden con-inued in prayer for him alone, and with the reft, beingwelve men ; when praying with them, he faid, “ Lordhall the poor lad that is gone our errand, fetkingread to fupport our lives, lofe his ? Direct the bulletsy his head, however near, let them not touch him }pod Lord, fpread the lap of thy cloak and cover theoor lad.” And in this he was heard and anfwered,i that there was a dark cloud of rnift parted him andiem.26. About this time there was an henefl poor wiferought him and them fome bread and milk ; when feek-ng a blefling he faid, “ Now in this bloody land, this ;nor woman has endangered her life in bringing bread0 fupport ojirs *, we cannot pay her for it, but Lord,t is for thy fake (he has brought it \ there is no needhat ihe fiiould be a lofer at ;hy hand ; thou giveft plentyf bread to many that are not fo worthy of it; givingloes hot impoverilh thee, and withholding does not jnrich thee; give this poor Wife twenty bonnacks forhefe few ” And the Wife faid feveral times after-vards, the got many boenacks ; fo that the was neverb ftraitened for bread as before.27. At this time, upon a Sabbath-night, he preach- ;:d in a fhield or theep-houfe, in a defart place ; a mantanding at the door as he came in, he gripped him, andaid, “Whereare you going. Sit, go home, you haveicither art nor part with us, there will be a black ac-:Ount heard of you ere lang ” Accordingly, very ihort-y thereafter he went to Edinburgh, and took the blackeft. that night h. lectured upon the vii of Amos,‘ And I will let a plumb line in the rnidft of my peoplefrael.” He cried out, “Oh! now few of the mini- ;fers of Scotland will anlwer the plumb-line ? Lord,end us a Welwood, a Cargill, and a Cameron, andueh as they, and make us quit of the reft.” And I( 24 )will rife againft the houfe of Jeroboam, with the fwordHe fatd, “ I will tell you good news, our Lord wil,take a feather out of Ar.tichrift’s wing, which flialbring down the Duke of York, and banifh him out othefe kingdoms, and will remove the bloody fworcfrom above the heads of his people : And there wilnever a man of the name of Stewart lit upon the thromof Britain after the Duke of York, whole reign is newfhort, for their lechery, treachery, tyranny, and (bed¬ding the precious blood of the Lord’s people : But, oh 1black, black, black, will the day be that will comeupon Ireland, that they (hall travail forty miles, andnot fee a reeking houfe, nor hear a cock crow.’1At this he darted up to his feet, and clapt his hands,and with a raviihing voice cried aloud, “ Glory, glory,to the Lord, that has accepted a bloody focrilice of afealed teftimony off Scdtland’s hand ; we have a bloodyclout to hold up, and the lads that got the bullets thro1their heads the lad day at Glentroi, their blood has made!the clout redder When our Lord looks upon the bloodyclout, he will keep the 1 word of his avenging juftice inthe fheath for a time but if Scotland fhatl not conliderthe merciful day of their vilitation, nor his long fuffer^ing, patience, and forbearance lead them to repentance,as we fear it will not, but harden them in their'fin, andthe greater part turn gofpel-proof and judgment-proof,and wax worfe and worfe, then will the Lord accom-plifli all that he has threatened, well-'deferved, fore¬seen, and foretold day of vengeance, when he beginshe will alfo make an end, efpecially againit the houfeof Eli, for the iniquity which they cannot but know.”When ended, he, and thofe that svere with him, laydown in the fheep houle, and got fome fleep : He rofeearly, and went up to the burn fide, and flayed long:,when he carat* unto then., he did fiag the xixii. Pfal®^,( 25 )xom the 7th verfe to the end ; when ending, he re¬peated the 7th verfe,Thou art try hiding place ; thou Jl:altfrom trouble keep me free :Thou, •with fottgs of deliverance,about fjalt compafs me.Saying, “ ihefe and tlvj following are Aveet lines,which I got at th" burn-fide this morning; and we’ll?et nlorc to-morrow, and fo we’ll get daily provifion :He was never behind with any that put their trufi inhim ; and he will not be in cur common, nor none whorteedily depends on him, and fo we will go on in hisitrength, making mention of h’13 righteoulnefs, and oflis only.” fhe fortlaid James Cubifon went eightmiles with him ; when he took good nighty he (aid,ic Sir, I think I’ll never fee you again.” He (aid,‘ James, you and I will never meet again in time.”P-nd two (evcral times he Went to Ireland before, when ,hey parted, he told them that they would meet again.I he (aid James, John Muirhead, and others of ourufterers, who were prefent, gave me thefe accounts.28. Shortly after they landed from Ireland in Galjo-^ay, the enemy got notice, they being then in garrifons,oot and horfe, and it beiug killing-time, the alarmame to them in a morning, that foot and horfe wereoming upon them, the (orefaid John Muirhead beingtruck with a violent pain in his forehead, they ftarted'P t0 run f°r't: He faid, “ Stay, fray, lads! let us prayor old John ere we go ” He hood up and faid, “ Lord,vz heat tell, that thy enemies and ours are coming upons, and thou halt laid thy hand of affluftion oa old John ;lave pily upon him, for thy enemies will have none;us blood will run where he lies ! (pare him at this time,re know not if he be ready to die.” And, as John told^ars ln his the pain in his head, andhe mdifpolition of his body quite left him,and he ftartedp and ran wi'h the reft 1’he enemies (eeing them,urhued them hard, fometimes the horfe, and fometimes( 26 )the foot being near them ; inofTy, boggifh ground didcaft about the horfes After they had run feme con-fiderable”way, they got feme little height between theenemy and them ; he flood Hill and faid, “ Let us prayhere ; for, if the Lord hear not our prayer?, and iaveus, we are dead men, and our blood will run like water :If we die, let the enemy kill us, let our blood fill uptheir cup, that the day of vengance that is coming onthem may be haflened.1’ Then he began and faid, “Lord,it is thy enemies’ day, hour and p,<wer; they may notbe idle, but haft thou no ether work for them, but tofend them after us ? Send them after them, to whomthou wilt give ftrertgth to flee, for our ftrength is gone ;twine them about the hill, Lord, and eaft the lap of thycloak over auld Sandy, and thir poor things, and faveusthis one time, and we will keep it in remembrance, andtell it to the commendation of thy goodnefs, pity andcompaflion, what thou didft for us at fiich a time ” lathe mean time, there was a dark cloud of milt came be¬twixt them. After prayer, he ordered two of themto give notice of the enemy’s motion, and the reft to!go alone, and cry mightily to the Lord for deliverance.!In the meaii time that they were thus exercifed, thereicame pofts to the enemy, for them to go and purfueafter Mr. Renwick, and a great company with him.After the enemies were gone, he called them together,ftnd faid, “Let us not forget to return fhanks to theJLord, for hearing and anfwering us in the day of ourdiftrefsAnd charged the whole creation to praifethe Lord; and alfo adjured the clouds to praife him.Then he fat down at the fide of a well, and enquiredif they had any crumbs of bread ? Some of them had!feme crumbs ; and when feeking a blefiing, he laidj** Lord, thou who blefted the few loaves and filhes, anefijnade them fufficient for many, blcfs this water and,thefe crumbs to us ; for we thought we fliould neveitLave needed anymore of thele creature comforts.”‘ 29. A few days after this, the aforefaid John MuiiH:     i( 27 )head was in a houfe alone, at a diftance from the rert:,-and in the morning was a dark mift, and he knew notwhither to t\o, or where to find them ; only he heardhim ijieak of the name of a place where he was to bap- 'tize fome children ; he gave a lixpence to a lad to con- ;duft him to that place, which was fix miles diftant: rWhen he came, he was praying. After baptiim, he jcame to John, and faid “Poor ftraying fheep, h. w cameyou to ftray from the reil ? 1 had a troubled morning |lor you ! Do not thus again, otherwife it will fare jthe worfe with you ”30. About this time, he and John Clark, who ordi¬narily was called Little John, were in a cave in Gal¬loway, and had wanted meat and drink long : He laid,“ John, better be thru It through with the 1’word, than 1pine away with hunger ; the earth and the fuinefs there¬of, belongs to my Matter, and I have a right to as muchof it as will keep me from f anting under his fervice ;go to fuch a houfe, and tell th rn plainly that I have Jwanted meat fo long, and they will willingly give it5* :Sai l John, “ Sir, I am not willing to leave you in this [ipl-ce yourfelf, tor ibme have been frighted by the devilin this caved’ “No, no, John, faid he, you need not ifear that, I will take my venture of him for a time.”'John went, and the people willingly gave him fomemeat When he came back, he find, “John, it is very I-hard living in this world, incarnate devils above the '<earth, and devils beneath the earth! tide devil has beenhere It nee you w** ru away, I.have fent him otr in hafte,we will be no more troubled with him this night.”31. A little after thfi, lie being yet in Galloway,John Muirhead and lo ne others being with him, Johniaid to him, “ Phis is a very melancholy, weary time;”it being killing time. He replied, “ There are more jdark weary days to come, when your pulpits will be 1Ifni l of Prefbyterian miuitlers, ani it will turn that da k Jupon you, that many fhall not know what to do, whe¬ther to hear or forbear ; and they ihail then be reckonedC z< 28 )hrippy that w^n well' through at PentlanJ, Bothwel,and AirJrno(s, and wan fairly ofF the ftage, and got-martyrdom for Chrift : for the minifters will cut of*manv of the moft fericus and zealous godly at the web'send ; but I wi l be hid in a grave ” L'hey enquired,what would become of the tefhm-ony of the Church ofScotland? Then he p'-ucked the bonnet off his head,and threw it from him, faying, “ See ye how my bonnetlies ? The fworn to, and healed tellimcny of the Churchof Scotland wilt fall from among the hands of ail parties,and will lie as c ofe upon the ground as ye lee my bon¬net lie.” How lamentably is this acconqdifhed, to theobfervation of all w ho fee with half an eye !32. At this time it was feldom that Mr. Pcden couldbe prevailed whh to preach, frequently anfwering andadviling people to pray meikle, faying, “ It was praying-folk that would win through the florm : they would getpreaching both meikle and good, but not mtikle goodof it, until judgments be poured out, to make the landdefolate.'* And at other times, “ We needed not to lookfor a great or good day of the gofpel, until the fwordof the Frenches were amonglt us, to make a dreadfulfiaughter ; and after that, draw good days ” He and-Mr Donald Cargill law as it had been with one eye,and fpake with one breath ; and, freqi'.ently, whenthey prdled him to preach, he had the fame txpreffiensin his anfwers33. There wei-e tlree lads murdered at Yvr:gtown,and-at the fame time he was praying at Ciaigmyne,many miles dilfant : He cried out, “ Ihcoe is a bloody’;facrifice put up this day at Wigtown.'’ Thefe werethe lads oi' iviradly : And thole who lived near, knewnot of it, till it was paft, I had this account fromWilliam M‘DoogaI, an old man in Ferrytown, nearWigtown, worthy of credit, who was prefent.34 her this,in Auchengrooch-nmirs, in N it hi dale, •Cap a-a John Matthifon and others being with him,tl*ey were alarmed that the enemies were coming fall;■( )Ppon them : They t.Wigned to put him in fotne hole,and cov.'r Inm w th heather, he not being ; hie to runhard, by realon of his age ; he defined them to forbeara little u .til he prayed, where he laid, “ i on), we areever needing at thy hand ; and if we had not thy com¬mand to ca l on thee in the day of trouble, and thy pro-ruife of ani wering us iri ^he day of our dddrefs, we wotnot what would become of u; : If thou haft ar y morework for us in the world, allow us the lap of thy chakthis day again : And if this be the day of our going offtheftage, htus win hone fitly etF, and comfort aWy throu. h,and our fouls will fimg forth tiiy praifies thro’ eternity,for what thou hah done to us and for us ” When end¬ed, he ran alone a little, and came quickly back, laying,“ Lads, the bitternefs of this blaft is over; we will bemo more troubled with them to-day.” Foot and horfeicamc the length of Andrew Clark’s, in Achengrooch,where they were covered with a dark mi ft : When thevfavv it, they roared like fteftily devils, and cried out;“ L'liere is the confounded mift again ! we cannot getthtle damned vvhigs purfitied for it ” I had this ac¬count from the laid Captain John MatthiTon,35. About'this time he was in a hoirfe in the /hireof Ayr (James Nilbet, yet living in the Cafitie of Edin¬burgh, can bear witnefs to the Uuth of this) and onenight he was handing before the'fir.e, where he utteredfome imprecations upon the curled intelligencers, whohad told rite enemy that he was come out df Ireland.When James took Ifim to the place where he was to refit, ja little, James laid, ‘ The fiervants took notice of your jimprecations upon the intelligencers.” He laid, “ i’e ]will know to-morrow, about nine o’clock, what 1-roundI have for it : I wifh thy head may be preferVed, for itwill be in danger for me ; 1 will take my own time, andbe gone from this houfe.” Some time that night, he.went to a delert pjace, and darned himfielf in a mofis-hag.I j he next morning, James was going at the harrows,aaid about eight of the clock there was a troop of the/,V 3 ' .>enemies furroirnding the houfe ; when James faw themv>4he ran for it, and they purfued him hard, till he wan *to a mofs, where they could purfue him no farther withhorfes : t hen they fired upon him, and he having knotsupon his hair, on each fide of his head, one of theirbullets took away one of the knots. He ran whereMr. Pedrn was,whofaid, “Oh! Jamie, Jamie, l am gladyour head is fafe, for I knew it would be in danger.”He took his knife, and cut away the other knot.36 About this time, he and James Wilfon in Dou-.glas, a fingularly knowm man to many, was at Airdf-mofs ; and being together feme time, without fpeaking,;as Mr. Peden’s ordinary was, when there was any extra- ■ordinary thing in his head, they came to Mr Cameron’s :grave, where he and other eight were buried. Afterfitting fome time on the grave, he gave James a dtp onthe fhoulder with his heavy hand, and laid, “I am go¬ing to cell you a ftrange tale !” James laid, “I am wil-jling to hear it.” He laid, “ This is a ftrange day, bothkof finning and futitring ! (as indeed it was, it being kil-1ling time, wherein many hunted, and could not endure :the fcorching heat of the pcrfecution ! but to fome the,:Lord, in his love, ga ce gourds of ftrength, fupport and.jcomfort,that keepeu them from fainting:) But, iaid he,,tho’ it be a dreadful day, it will not iatt long ; this per-:ie cut ion will be fiept who in thefe few years, but I wiltnot fee it j and ye are all longing and praying for thatday, but sv-hen it comes, ye will not crack io much of iras ye trow And ye are a vain man, James, and manyothers, with your bits of paper and drops of blood!bat when chat day comes, there will be a bike of in¬dulged, lukewarm miuifters from Holland,England, and3rthand, together with a bike of them at home, and iomeyoung things that know nothing -, and they will all hyvetogether in a General AiTembly ; and the red hands withblood, and the black hands of defection, will be taken bythe hand,and the hand given them by our minifters; and-:ye wiil not ken who htw been ‘.he perfecuton, compker;  -( 3T )or fuffcrfr and your bits of paper and drops of bloodwill be fhut to the door, and never a word more of them;and ye and the like of you, will yet their backfide.”—He gave him another foreclap upon the (boulder, faying,“ Keep mind of this, James Wilfon ! for, as the Lordlives, it will furely come to pafs.” James Wilfon toldme this fhortly thereafter, and repeated it again the firfl:General Affembiy. when he and I, and many others,faw the accomphihment of this, in'every particular,to our great grief.37 In the beginning of May, 1685, he came to thehoufe of John Brown and Marion Weir, whom he mar¬ried before he went to Ireland, where he flayed allnight ; and in the morning, when he took farewel, hecame out at the door, faying to himfelf, “ Poor woman,a fearful mortiing !” twice over : “ A dark miily morn-> *ng-” l he next morning, between five and fix, the faidJohn Brown, having gone about the wo-fhip of God inI his family, was going vviih a fpade in his hand, to makeready fome peat-groun J ; the mitt being very dark, heknew not until cruel »nd bloody Giaverhoufe compaiTedhim with three troops of horfe, and brou, ht him to hishoufe, and there examined him ; who, thcaigh he was aman of a ftammering fpeech, yet anfweitu hun dtftimfl-'ly and.folidly ; which made Claverhoafe to afk thofewhom he had taken to be his guides through the muirs,i if eytr they heard him preach ( 1 hey .anfwered, “No,; no, he was never a preacher.” He laid, “If he has1 never preache4 meitde, he has prayed in his time.”, He laid to John, “ Go to your prayers, for you lhal..'i immediately die.” When he was pray ing, Claverhouft'1 interrupted him three times: One time that he flopli him, he was pleading that the Lord would fpare a rem-; nant, and not make a full end in the day of his an^er: Claverhcufe faid, “I gav. you time to pray,-and ye an; begun to preach ” He turned about upon his knees| and laid, “ Sh*. you know neither the nature of prayingnor preaching, that calls this preaching J” then continu;d without confufion,” When ended, Claverhoufe .(faid, “ J ake good-niijht of vour wife and children.” fu is wife Handing by, wiui her cliiid in her arms, that 1flie had brought forth to him, and another child of hisflrft wife’s, he came to her and faid, “ Now, Marion,the day is come that I told you would come, when l .fpake firft to you of marrying me.” She faid, “ Indeed, ,John, I can willingly part w;th you.” Then he faid, ;“ That is all I deJjre, i have no more to do but die.”He killed his wile and ba:rns, and wiihed purchaletland promif'ed biddings to be multiplied upon them, andhis blefiinm Claverhoufe ordered fix fold it rs to fiiocc,and the moft part of the bullets came upon his head,which 1'cattered his brains upon the ground Ciaver-houle faid to his wife, ‘ Whit thinkeft thou of thy ]hulband now, woman (” Sae laid, “ I thought ever imuch of him, and now as much as ever.” He faid,u It were jultice to lay thee bellde him.” She faid,“ If ye were permitted, I doubt not but your crueltywould go that length But how will ye anfvver lerthis morning’s work ?” Hi? laid, “ I'o man 1 can beaniwerable, and for God, I will take him in my ownhand !” Claverhoufe mounted his horle and marched,and left her with the dead corple of her hufband lyingthere. She fet the bairn cn the ground, and gatheredhis brains, and tied up his head, and ilraighted his body,and covered him with her plaid, and fat down and weptover him. It being a very delart p;ace, where nevervictual grew, and far from neighbours, it was feme timebefore any friends came to her : 1 he frit that came,was a very fit hand, that old lingular woman in theCummerhead, named Elizabeth Menzies, three milesdifiant, who had been tried with the violent death ofher hulband at Pentland, afterwards of two worthy Ions,Thomas Weir, who was killed at Drumciog, and DavidSteel, who was luddenly ihot afterwauds when taken.The faid Marion Weir, fitting upon her hulband’s grave, ,told me, that before that, fhe could fee no bloou but Hie( 33 )was in danger to Lint, av ’ yet Hie was helped to bewunefsto all this, without cither fiintin or confufion,except when the lliots were let . ft, er eyes dazzled.H s corpfe v ere buried at the end of his houle, wherehe was flain, with this inlcripticn on bi^ grave-ftone,In earth's cold bed, the dtjly part here lies,Of one who did the earth as dttjl defpife !Here, in this place, from earth he took departure ;Now he has get the garland oj a Marty.Thi muruer wa- committed bet.veendlx and feven inthe morning : Mr Pedcn w<s abcut ten miles diftant,having been in the fields all night, he came to the houfeabout eight, and detired to call in the family, that hemight pray amongit them. When praying, he faid,•“ Lord, when wit thou avenge Brown’s blood ? Oh! 'let Brown’s blood be precious in thy fight! and haften Ithe day when thou wilt avenge it, with Cmacron’s -Cargil’s. and many others of our Martyrs’ names :And oh ! for that day, when the Lord will avenge alltheir blood.” When ended, John Muirhead enquiredwhat he meant by Brown’s blood ? He faid twice over,“ What do I mean ! Claverhoufe has been at the Pref-hill this morn'ng.aad his cruelly murdered John Brown, 1his corpfe is lying at the end of his houie, and his poorwife fitting weeping by his corple, and not a foul to (peakcomfortably to her. This morning, after the tun-riling,I faw a ifrange apparition in the firmament, the appeat-ance cf a very bright clear-fhii.ing liar, fali from i.tavmto the earth, and indeed there is a clear-lhining lightfallen this day, the greateit Chnltian that ever i coiirverfed with.”33. After this, two days before Argy.e was brokenand taken, he was near Wigtown in Galloway ; aeon- ;iiderable number of men were gatnerrd together inarms, to go for his afli tance; ihey pneiTeO him to preach,but he poiitively refuted, faying, he would .o d. praywith them ; where he continued long, and lOvti: tomeP'trt of that time in praying far Ireland,, pleading that.( 34 )the Lord would {pare a remnant, and not make a fulllend in the day of his anger; and would put it in the!hearts of his own to dee over to this bloody land, wherethey would find lafety for a time. After prayer theygot fome meat, and he gave every one of his old parifii-oners, who were there, a piece out of h;s own hand,calling them his bairns. Then he advifed all to go nofurther ; “ But, faid he, for you that are my bairns*I difeharge you to go your foct-length, for before youcan travel that length, he will be broke : and thoughit were not fo, God will honour neither him nor Mon¬mouth to be inftruments of a good turn to his church,they have dipt their hands fo far in the perfecution.”And that lame day that Argyle was t?ken, Mr, GeorgeBarclay was preaching, and perfuading men in thatcountry to go to Argyle’s affiffance : After lebmon, hefaid to Mr. George, “ Now Argyle is in the enemy'shand, and gone ! ’ though he w^.s many miles diftant.I had this accouut from fome of thefe his bairns, whowere prefent ; and the lait from Mr. Barclay’s'felf.39 After this he was to preach at night, at Penga-roch in Carrick : the miftrels of the houie was too open-minded to a woman, who went and told the enemy, andcame back to the houfe, that (he might not be lufpe<ficd :Mr. Peden being in the fields, came in haite to the door,and called the miflrefs, and faid, “ Ye have played abonny fport to yourfelf, by being fo loole-tongued ; theenemy is informed that I was to drop a word this nightin this houfe, and the perlbn who has done it, is in thehouie juft now, and you will repent it ; for to-morrowmorning the enemy will be here. Farewel, 1 will ftayno longer in this place.'’ fo-morrow-morning bothfoot and horfe were about the houfe.40. In the fame year, within the bounds of Carrick,John Clark, in Muirbrock, being with him, faid, “Sir,what think ye of this preient time ? Is it wot a dark,melancholy day ? And can there be a more difeouragingtime thm this?” iie faid, “ Yes John, this is indeed< 35 )dark, difcauraging time ; but there will be a dsrkerlime than this : ihefs filly, gracelefs, wretched crea¬tures the Curates, fiiill go down ; and after them lhalli.rile a party called Prefbyterians, having no more than|he name ; and thefe fhall as really crucify Chrift, astver he was crucified without the gates of Jcrufalem,ijm Mount Calvary, bodily. I fay, they,fhall as really:rucify Chrift in his caufe and intereft in Scotland ;md fhall lay him in his grave, and his friends fhall give\im his winding-fheet j and he fhall ly, as one buried,or a confiderable time. O then, John, there will beiarknefs and dark days, fuch as the pocr Church ofScotland never faw the like of them, nor fhall fee, if>nce they were over ! Yea, John, they fhall be fo dark,hat if a poor thing would go between the Eaft fea-bankind the Weft fea-bank, feeking a minifter, to whom theyvould communicate iheircafe. or tell them the mind ofhe Lord, concerning the times, ihe fhall not find one.”fohn afked where the teftimony fhould be then ? He an-~wered, *' In the hands of a few, who fhall be defpifed :md undervalued by all, but f fpecially by thefe minifterswho buried Chrift ! But after that, he fhall get up onihem -, and, at the crack of his winding-fheet, as manyaf them as are alive, who were at his burial, lhall bediftrafted and mad for fear, not knowing what to do.Then, John, there fhall be brave days, fuch as the !Church of Scotland never faw the like ! But I fhall not.ee them, but you may.”41. In the fame year 1685, preaching in the night¬time in a barn at Carrick, upon thaf text, Pfal. Ixviii. 1.Z,et God arife ! and let his enemies he fcattered ! Letthem that hate him jlee before him ! As fmoke is driven,\fo drive then them ! So infilling how the enemies andihaters of God and goodnefs were tofled and driven asnfmoke or chatt by the wind of God’s vengeance, whileion earth; and that wind would blow them all to heHun the end : {looping down, there being chaff amongibis feet, he took a handful of it, and faid, « The Duke-( 3-6 )of York, and now King of Britain, a known enemy ofGod and goo^nefs, it was by the vengeance of God that:he ever got that name': but as ye i'ee me throw awaythat chaff, fo the wind of that vengeance fliall blow anddrive him off that throne ; an; he nor any of that,name, fhall ever come on it ag in.”42. About this time, preaching in Canick, in theparifh of Girvan, in the day-time, in the fields, DavidMafon, then a profeflbr, came in hafte, trampling uponthe people to be.near him ; he faid. “ There conies thedevil’s rattling-bag, we do not want him here.” After:this, the faid David became officer in that bounds, andan informer, running through rattling his bag, and futn-moning the people to their unhappy courts for cheh*non-conformity . for that, he and his got the name ofdevil’s ratih-bag to this day. Since the Revolutionhe complained to his minifler, that he and his got thatname; the minifter faid, “ Ye well delerve it, and hewas an honefit man that gave it you, you and your’smuff enjoy it, there is no help for it ”43. A little before his death, he was in Auchincloich,where he was born, in the houfe of John Richman, therebedng two beds in the room, one fir him, and one for'Andrew —, who dwelt in and. about the New-Milns yjwhen Andrew was going to his bed, he heard him veryimportunate with the Lord, to have puy upon the Welt:of Scotland, and fpare a remnant, and not make a fullend in the day of his anger : And when he was oft' hisknees, he walked up and down the chamber, crying out,<( Oh ! the Monzies, the French Monzies! See how theyrun ! How long will they run ? Lord, cut their houghsand flay their running.” Thus he continued all night,:fome times on his knees, and fiome times walking.—In the morning they enquired what he meant by theM '.zk s t He laid, “ O firs ! ye will have a dreadful dayby the French Mcnzies, and a let tf wicked men in thefeland , who will take part with them! The Weft ofScotland will pay dear for it ! They will run thickerf ^ )in the water of Ayr and Clyde, thin ever the Highland-men {lld.,, I lay in that chamber about three years ago, ;and the faid John Richm n and his wife told me thatthefe were his words. At other times, to the famepurpole, faying, “ O ! the Monzies, the Mcmzies willbe through the breadth and length of the Sauth andWeft of Scotland ! O ! 1 think 1 fee them at our fire-fide®, flaying man, wife and children. The remnantwill get a breathing *, but they will be driven to thewildemefs again, and their fharpeft hours will be laft ”To the fame purpofe fpoke the two following mini-fters, vrz.Mr. Thomas Lundie, a godly minifter in theNorth of Rctray. His flfler, a Lady in that country,who died in the year ibSgjgave the following account:That the faid Mr. Lundie, after fome ficknefs andfceming recovery again, which comforted them ; onemorning flaying longer than ordinary in his chamber,the forefaid Lady knocked at his chamber-door, onopening it, found him more than ordinary weighted:She afked him the reafon, feeing he was now better iWhereupon, fmiiing, he faid, “ Within a few hours[ I will be taken from you ! But, ab.s ! for the day thati I fee coming upon Scotland T he Lord has letten mei fee the Frenches marching with their armies throughi the breadth and length ot ihe land, marching to thehrI bridle-reins in the blood of all ranks, and that for abroken burnt and buried covenant! But neither yenor I will live to fee it.” As alfo, one Mr. Douglas,a godly minifter in Galloway, a little before his death,feeming as flumbering in his bed, his wife and othacfriends funding Dy, when he awakened, he feemed morethan ordinarily weighted, and groaned heavily, faying,“ Sad days for Scotland !” His wife alked him, “ Whatwill be the inftruments He faid, “ The fwords offoreign enemies : T hey will be heavy and fharp, hotnot long ; but they will not be yet, but not long to them.' But O the glorious clays on the back of them, to peer; wafted Scotland!”( 38 )The late worthy ftfr. Richard Cameron, fpake to thefame purpofe, when preaching at the Grafs-water-fde,fouth from Cumnock, July 20th, 1680, eighteen daysbefore his death, viz, “ There are three or four thingsthat I have to tell you this day, which 1 muff not omit,becaufe I will be but a breakfaft-, feme hour or another,to the enemy ; and my work and time will be finifhed.Firtf, As for King Charles, who is now upon the throne,after his death there fliall not be a crowded king of thename of Stuart in Scotland. Secondly, There {hall notbe an old Covenanters head above the ground in Scot¬land (that fwore thefe covenants with up-lifted hands)ere ye get the reformation fet up. Thirdly, A manJhal! ride a fummer-days journey within the fhirc of Ayr,and {hall not fee a houfe reek, or a cock crow, ere ye getreformation; and feveral other (hires in Scotland (hall beas ill. Fourthly, The rod that the Lord will make in-itfuments of, {hall be the French and the French king,together with a party in this land joining with them :But ye that ftand to'the tehimor.y in that day, be not dif-couraged at the fewnefs of your number, when Chriftcomes to fet up his work in Scotland, he will not wantjmen anew to work for him •> yea, he will chap upon thegreateft man in all Scotland, ard he will be the greatdl ;malignant in it, and he will fay, Sir, let alone this Babel- 1building, for I have another piece of work to pucin yourSiand ; and he will gar him work whether he will or npt.Jf may be he will convert the man, and give him his foulfor a prey. And there are many of you that are mybearers this day, that fliall live to fee thefe things ac-compliflied: And after thefe defolations-are-over, yefee the noblemen and gentlemen’s hotiles io ruined thatthe nettles {hall be growing out of their bed-chambers,or_ye eke ; and their memory and poherity (halLperifh ,from the earth ”44. The following art; feme notes of Air. Peden’s hitSermon m the Colom wood at the Water of Ayr, a littlebefore his death. “ My Matter is the rider, and I am— c-~ - * ■ ' * - ' *'■( 39 )the horfe.—I neVerlove to ride but when I find the fpurs*1 know not what 1 have to do amongft: you this night,I with it may be for your good, for it will be the lalt —It is Icsng’iinee it was our delire to God, to have yo«taken off our hand rand now he is printing us our delire.There are four or five things I have to tell you this night,lirfl:, a. bloody Iword, a'bloody 1 word for thee O hcot-land, that ihdl tear the hearts of many. Secondly, Manymiles fhail you travel, and fhall fee nothing but defola-tions and ruinaus walies in thee, O.Scotland. Thirdly,The fertileft places in Scotland ihall be as wafte anddefolate as the mountains. Fourthly, The women withchild fhall be ript up an 1 dafhed to pieces. Fifthly,Many a conventicle has God had in thee O Scotland !but, ere long, God will have a conventicle that willmake Scotland to tremble.—Many a preaching has Godwared upon thee, but ere long God’s judgments fhalibe as frequent as thric precious meetings were, whereinhe fent forth Ins faithful lervants, to give faithful warn¬ing of the hazard of thy apoitacy from God, in break-'iog, burning and burying his Covenant •, perlecuting,flighting and contemning the gofpd ; fhedding the pre-C'-’i's blood of his faints and Servants.—God fent fortha Vv e.-vood, a Kid and a King, a Cameron and a Car¬pi!, and others, to preach to thee ; bur, ere long, GodIhaU preach to thee by fire and a b ootiy fword ! Godw i let none of thefe men’s words fall to the ground,tea; he fent forth with a coni million to preach thefetnings in his name : ile will not let one fentence fall tothe ground, but they will have a fatTaccdrnplifhtnent, tothe Sad experience oh-many.” In his prayer after fer-mon, he laid, “• Lord, thou haft been both good and kindto auld Sandy, through a long t. act of time, and givetthim many years in thy Service, which has been but as fomany months; but now lie is tiredof thy world,and hathdone ail the good in it that he will do ; let him win awayw.th the honesty he has, for he will gather no more•,*D 2( 40 )When the day of his death drew near, and notbeing able to travel, he came to his brother’s horde, inthe parifh of Sorn, where he was born : he caufed diga cave, with a faughen bulh covering the mouth of it,near to his brother’s houfe ; and tire enemies came andfearched the horde narrowly many times. In the timethat he was in this cave, be laid to ibrae friends, i ThatGod {hall make Scotland a defolation. 2. There {hall V.ea remnant in the land, whom God Ihould fpare and hide.3 fliey flrouSd lie in holes and caves of the earth, andbe fuppiied with meat and drink : and when they comeout of their holes, they lhall not have freedom to walk,for humbling on the dead corpfes. 4. A. hone out ofa mountain, (hall come down, and God fhall be avengedon the great ones of the earth, and the inhabitants cf theland, for their wickednel's ; and then the church ihouldcome forth with a bonny bairn-time of yonng ones atherback He wifhed that the Lord's people might ly hidin their caves, as ifthe\ v/ere not: in the world, for noth¬ing would do it, until God appeared with his judgments,and they that wan through the bitter ani.fharp, ihort{lorm, by the {word of the Frenches, and a fet cf un¬happy men, taking part with them, then there wouldhe a fpring-tide day of the plenty, purity and power ofthe golpei: giving the m that for a iign, If he were butonce buried, they might be in doubts 5 but if he wereoftener buried than once, they might be psrfuaded thatall he had laid would come to pafs: And earneltly deiirrdthe n to take his corpfe out to Airdfmofs, and bury thembehde Richy (meaning Mr. Cameron) that he might getrcfl in his grave, for he had gotten little through his lif. vbut he laid ire knew they wonld not do it. He rok! them,that bury him where they would, he would be liftedagam ; but the man that put fir(l Ins hand to lift his ;e.oipfe, four tli tags fhould befal him: 1. He fhould geta great fall from a horle 2. He Ihould fill in adultery.3 Into theft ; and for this he ihould leave the land.4. Make a melancholy end abroad for mm dec. Which( -M )Rccordingly came to pafs. There was one Mutdoch,a maion to his trade, burthen in the military fervice,who firft put hands to his corpfe.A little before his death he laid, “ Ye fliall be angrywhere I (hall be buried at laft, but I difcharge you allto lift my corpfe agam.” At laib, one morning early, hecame to the doc, and left his cave*, his brother’s wifefaid, Where are you going, the enemy will be here :Me faid, 1 know that. Alas, Sir, (aid (he, what willbecome of you ? You ir,u!l go back to the cave again.He faid, “ l have done with that, for it is difeovered :But there is no matter, for within forty-eight hours Iwill.be beyond the reach of all the devil’s temptations*and his inftruments, in hell or on the earth ; and theyihall trouble me no more ” About three hours after he:entered the houfe, the enemy came and found him notin the cave then they (earched the barn narrowlyycaft-ing the unthrelhen corn_; and Searched the houfe, ftall-bing the beds, but entered not into the place where he lay.Within forty-eight hours he died, January 28, i68£J*being pail fixty years ; and was buried in the Laird o£Affle£t’s lile. 1 he enemies got notice of his death andlburial, and ftnt a troop of dragoons,and lifted his corpfean 1 carried hiuvto Cumnock-galiows-foot, and buriedhim there (after being forty days in the grave) belideothers riis friends thereafter laid a grave-(lone abovehinij with this inferipnon :.Hire liesMr ALEXANDER P E D E N,A faithful Minijler of the Gofpcl at GLENL UCE9IVho departed this Lifey 'January 28, j686,And was raifed, after Six IVeeis, out of his GravetAnd buried here out of contempt.After this, that troop of dragoons came to quarter in ;the parifti of Cambufnethen : Two of them were quar«tered in the houfe of James Gray, my acquaintance ^they being frighted in their (leep,ftarted up, and clappetS-their hands,crying, Feden, Pedea, Thefe two dragoon^X> 3( 4* )affirmed, that out of theircjriofity they opened his coffin, ■to fee his corpfe, and yet he had no fmel!, though hehad be en forty days dead.All the foregoing articles I was allured of, except ther4Gth. which is faid he fpoke to John Clark in Muir*hrock, within the bounds of Carries, in the year 1685,and has been palling from hand to hand in writ. I lenta friend twenty miles to higr, for the certainty of it;and although he was my old acquaintance, he delayedto give it. But F am informed, that fome other friends.«nqtiired at the faid John, who owned that the 40th.paffage was all one, for lubftance, with what Mr. Pedenfaid to him.There are other two pnflages I have often heard, and.doubt nothing of the truth of them, though the timesand places be not mentioned, viz. One day preaching inthe fields, in his prayer he prayed earneftlv for the pre’ftrvation of the people : and again and again he prayed ]for that man that was to lole his life. The enemies came sjUpon them the lame day, and lired upon the people, and ,there was none of them either wounded or killed, fav>e.<©ne man, and he was Ihot dead.*—Another time he waspreaching, and giving a very large offer of Chriff, in.the gofpel- terms an old woman being fitting before himhe laicMiis hands on each fide of her head, and rocked herfrom fide to fide, and faid, “ Thou witch-wile, thou .witch-wife, thou witch-wife, 1 offer Chrift to thee !Quit the devil's fervice, thou haft a bad mailer ; thouWilt never make thy plack a babee of him : But if thouwilt break oft'and renounce the devil’s fervice, I pro-,mile thee, in my Mailer’s name, that he will give theefalvatiou.” After this, there was a difcernahle changein her practice ; and when Iffe was a-dying, fhe confeikfed that Hie was either engaged in the devil’s i'ervice, orwas engaging ; am1 excelled her thankfulnefs that (fie,fcad the happinefs to hear Mr. Peden at that time,( -43 )PART II.Containing Thirty ne w additional Pajjagcs,x. TN the year 1666, when the Lord’s perfecmed and.j|_ opprelfed people were gathered together for their Iown defence, who were broken at Pentland-hills, he, jw-ith Mr. Welch and the laird.of Glorover, in the parilh |of Balentrea, were riding together in the fame parifh,and met upon the tvay a party of the enemy’s horfe, andno evitingof them, the laird fainted, fearing they wouldall be taken. Mr Peden feeing this, faid, “Keep upyour courage and confidence, for.God hath laid an arreft ’upon thefe men, that they fhall not harm us.” When ;they met, they were courteous, and a Iked the way : 1Mr. Peden went off the way, and flievfed the ford ofthe water of Tit. When he returned, the Laird faid,*( Why did you go with them ? You might have fent thelad with them ” He faid, “ No, no ; it was more fafesfor me ; for they might have alked queftions at the lad, !and he might have fainted and difeovered us. For my- ifelf, i kne w they would be like the Egyptian dogs, theywould not move a tongue againlt me ; for my hour offalling into their hands, and the day of trial, is not come,that is abiding me” i here is an old Chriftian ggntle-H woman, yet alive in Edinburgh, a daughter of the faidLand’s, who told me of late, that the had feveral timesri heard her father give an account of this, bhe alio toldroe, thatXmce Bothwel-brklgefight,fh« heardhimpreachin the fields, in the fore-laid parilh j and a woman luting»tbefore the tent, looking up to him, he laid, “ How haveyou the confidence to lookup? Look down to hell,whereyou are going j the devil has a fafi grip of you, and willnot lofe it.” That woman lived and died under themala fama of a witch, and prefumptions of the fame.2. 'vbout the year 1670, he was in Armagh, in Irc-b land, one John Geodale, with his wife, twoferious,,!ji zealous Chriftians, living in Armagh, who had gone fcoui.( 44 )Scotland, who was a wheel-wright to his employment;his zeal was fuch againft the fuperftitious worlhip, andkeeping fo many holidays, that when the people weregoing and coming by his fhop-door, he wrought molthard ; for which he was excommunicate ; When he toldiVir Peden, he laid, :‘Kejoice John, that you arecaftoutof the devil’s count-book.” Alter this, he was preachingprivately in John’s houfe ; in his preface he laid- “OurLord has been taking great pains on you in Ireland, to-get you to learn your kllbn per quire ; and few of you.have been brought to fay your Idiou off the book ! tiehas gotten a goodly company m Scotland, that he is learn¬ing to fay their leifon off the book ; and they are brave-'fcholars : but, ere long, he witi try fome of you withituaffo : He will fay, Come out, thou man in Armagh, andthou man in Benburb, and fay your leffon off the book.”The Bilhop of Armagh (whereof the great Mr. Ulher-was formerly Bilhop) and his underling, was fo enragedagainll the faid John, that he rode twenty miles to Dub¬lin, to get an order of caption from the Lord Lieutenant;,there, for apprehending the faid John, and alfo GeorgeFleexning in Benburb, which he ealiiy obtained ; and .came quickly back, and was in fuch ha lie to deliver his--order, that upon horfe-back he cadled for the chiei magi-ftrate: When delivering his commifilon, his horle call up i,his head, and gave him fuch a ftroke on the Jareait, thathe died on the 4th or 5th day thereafter, GeorgeFfeeming went out -of the way* who v^as father to the .late Mrs Fleeming, that Chrilffan, motherly woman, .who kept a fchool in the C. ftle-hi'd, and died there —The aforeiaid John was immediately put in prifun : •H is wife and other friends came to vilit him ; his wifefaid, • Now, my dear, learn to fay your leffon off thebook.’ He anfwered, ‘I am much obliged to you for yourkindnefs, that minds me of that note.’ Thejaylor, at-night, faid, “ John, you are called an honed; man, if youwill prdmife to return to-morrow, I will let you home$9 your bed.” John fsida ‘‘ That I will not do.” The:eeper faid, “ "\Viil you run tor it r” He faid, “ No, no jhave done no ill iiv ,tlut needs make me either afraid>r afliamed. Well, i aid the keeper, go home to your bed,ind I will fend a fcrvant for you the morrow's morning.”When he went home, it was his ordinary in his family-eorlhip, to ling thefie lines in the 109th Pfalm,Few be his da-js, and in his roomHis charge another tahes See.When ended, he lain to his wife, “ [ never found fuel*I gale upon my fpirit as in the finding of thefe lines.”he f id it was to with her alio. “Well faid he, let usornmit our cafe and eaufe to the i ord, and wait on him ;nd we fliall know the meaning of this afterwards;.'he u :h ippy man fell immediately ill, and faid, that all:iis mifehief had come upon him, for what he had donegai ft John Goodale ; audcaul'ed write, and finned aifeharge,and lent it to the faid John, that he mightinotte troubled for the expence be had been at in the get-ing of that caption. He died under great horror ofonfcience. Notwithftanding he was detained three yearstriloner, working at his employment in the i'olbooth,n the duy-time, and went home to his bed at night.The faid John and his wife returned to Scotland, andlied fince the Revolution. His wife, when dying at-eith, gave this relarion.3. When Mr. Peden was prifoner in Edinburgh,indtr fcntencc of banifinnent, James Miliar, merchantn Kirkcaldy, was under the lame fentence ; and his wifeame to vifit him : Mr. Peden faid to her, “ It is no won-ler you be troubled with your hufband’s going to thedamatians but if any of us go there at this time, the-iCrd never fpake by me.”4. fn their voyage to London, they had the oppor-unity to command the fhip, and make their elcapt, butvouid not adventure upon it, without his advice. He.fid, “ Let alone, for the Lord will let us all at libertyp a way more for his own glory and our lately ”5. About this.time, in their voyage, on the Sabbath,( 46 ) -the prifbners prefled hioi to preach, the wind blowing ’very hard : in that i'trmon he laid, “Up your hearts,'lade, and be not dircoaraged, for this-man thought hd,had got a prize, when lie got the gift of us from thewicited, bloody council; but, in a few days, he lhall beas glad to be quit of us, as ever he was to get us.”—-A little time ago, I had a long fcroll of many accountsabout Mr. Peden, from an old Chriltian Englifh gentle¬man, who was much :n his company ; and gave me manynotes of bis t'e mons: and aflerts the truth of many thingsI have Paid about him, that he was witnefs to, and fomeother prrfoi s of great integrity He allured me, theonly inllrument the Lord railed up for the relief ofMr. Peden, and thefe fix prifoners with him, was myLord Shaftelbury, who was always friendly to Prelby-terians : He went to Charles II and, upon his knees,begged the releaie of thefe prifoners, but could notprevail. Then he went to the malier of the Ihip, andto:d him, that if he did not let thefe prifoners at liberty,he Ihould never fail in Englilh leas At length he camedown to Gravefend, and let them at liberty. After that,;the Scots and Engliih Ihewetl more than ordinary kind-nefs to them ; which fhculd be kept in remembra-cewith thankfgiving to the Lord for favouring our cutcafts.6. After they were fet at liberty he frayed at Loudon,Mid through England, until June 1670. Upon the 21ftof June, he was come to the South or Scotland, beingSaturday, the day before the Lord’s people felf and fie.ibefore the enemy at Bothwel-bridge ; in his exercife ina family, he cried out, “ 1 v. ill tell y ou, firs, our deliver¬ance will never come by the Iworu Many thought^when the billiops were fir ft fet up, that they wouldnot continue ieven years; but I was never of that mind ftit is now near three fevens, but they willl not fee thefourth feven, but I fear they will come near to it.”.Which fadl y came to pals7. He went that night to the fields, and came in onSabbath-morning, about the fiua-rifiag, weeping andY' ' ( 47 )•ringing his hands : one John Simpfon, a godly man Vnquired what the matter that mad ’ him weep •le faid, “ I have been wr tiling all night with God5>r our friends that are in the Weft, bu* cannot prevail.5’gave an account in the former paifages, a'vut the mid-le of that day, many people were waititig for lermon ;hen feme told him, he laid, “ Let the" people go toteir prayers, for I can preach none ; our friends are alled and fallen before the enemy, and they are haggin*id balhing them down, and their blood h running likeater.” At night he was called to lupper, having taft-1 nothing that day, ieveral friends being prefent: Ineking a blcfling, he broke out in a rapture of weepingid lamentations for that lad ftroke upon the bodies ofe Lord’s people ; but much more for the dead-ftroke.e greateft part had gor i pon their fpirits, that few of,e rninifters and profcflbrs ot Scotland fticuld ever re¬iver ; which fadiy held true, as I formerly mentionedthe ferapes of writings of that blaftof £aft witheringfm.. He alfo mfifted in prayer for the wounded, whoere wallowing to death in their blood 5 and for theary pr. toners : When ended, he went oft", and allher.s without tafting of their fupper, thought it wasson the table. At this time he was forty or fiftylies diftant from Bett wel-bridge. *8 About this time he was preaching in the South,i diat text, But they are not grieved for the afflictionsJoJeph. He liao m ny edifying remarks upon theregoing verles, tfpecialiv upon the firft line, Wo unto■m that are at ™fe in Zion He infifted upon theae nature of grieving ; and lamented that there wa*mtie grieving for the prelent gr.at aflliftons of thelurch oi Scotland, t :ne woman Handing amongft theople. pointing to her, faid, “Some of you will grieved greet more for the drowning of a bit of a calf or ftirklan tver^ye did for all the tyranny and defedti- ns ofotlr.n 1 ” That woman had a calf drowned a few daysfore, for which fhe made , ,t npi •, She challenged1 landlady fot telling the miiuittf cnat (he grat for her( 48 )calf: She replied, I could not tell him that whichkneue not, and as liule did he At the fame time, hefome of the people turning weary ; he fa:d, “ \ e are no'taking notice j fotneofvouar tntnking upon one thingand Ibme upon another ” t’he Lady Hundelfop htti/ijnear him, but knew he net, he turnmg to her, and faidi««And ye are tidnking on. greeting jock at the fire-fide.]This was a f;m > t her’s, called John, that ilie had lefvery weak of a decay at the fire-fide upon a couch. SLtold feveral afterwards, that the very 'ime there was :drow of anxiety overwhelmed her about himp. In the year 1682, he went to Ireland : Peter Airdwho lived in the parifh of Galfioun, who was taken willme, and imprifoned together', told me, that he followedhim fome good piece of the way to detain him, untihe got his child baptifed : He laid, “ l refolve to connback Ihortly, and I hope the Lord will preferve youchild ” Which accordingly he did : And after baptilithe laid to Letrr, “ If the man of the parifh (Mr. JamejYeitchc one of the actually indulged) had baptifed you:cbil . you would have got vour horned beafts kepnat ' now y.u will lole them.” Wltich came to pafs ina few days after'. f he enemy came and took away hi;cattle every hoof, but he fled with his horfesjo in the fame ye .r 1682, he married John Kirklamand Jarii t Lir.dfay,both n y very dear acquaintances,wintold me, That when they were ftundmg before him, Infighed deeply, and fair, “ Firfi one hufband killed, anttlien another, and mull have a third ! if it mull be folet her fay Gobd is the •will of ike Lord !>> Which di«come to pafs : Her hulband, Thomas Weir, in Cumberhead,was deadly wounded at Drumclog, by Claverhoule, the firft day of June. 1679, being the Sabbathand died die 5th day : And Enfign John Kirkland wakiiL d in Flanders. Kerfland, Fullerton and he were albuLed in one grave: And fince, William Spence, Eailli,in ColIter, who alfo was my intimate acquaintancemarried her. They are both now in their graves.( 49 )it. In the year 1684, he was in Ireland, in the houfcof John FDowan, in th pari'h oi Conert, in the countyof Antrim; abauc ten o’clock at night, fitting at the fire-iide, difcourfing with fome people, Oarted to his feet,and fa in, ‘ Plee, auldSmdie, and hide yourfelf, forColonel is coming to this hrufe to apprehend you ;and I advife you all to do the Like, for they will be herewithin an hour ” Which came to pifs. And when theyiiadinade a very narrow fearch wl hinand without thehoufe, and went round the thorn-bu h under which hewa; lying praying, they went off without their prey.He came in and (did, “ And has this gentleman (de-Ixgnmg him by his name) given poor Sandie and thirpoor things fuch a fright ? For thi; night’s work, God |[fhall give him fuch a blow within a few days, that all |the pbylicians on earth fhall not be able to cure it.”—- |Which came to pafs; for he died in great mifery, ver- 1min flowing from ail tne parts oi his body, with fuch a 'noifome ftink that few could enter the room.12, About the fame time, he was in the fame parifh.and county : O Mr Oavid Cunningham, minifterthere, in the meetinp-houfe, on a babbath-day, brokecu' in very great reflections on Mr Peden, and thefethat h ard him ; ont Mr. Vernor, one of Mr. Cun-ffingha ’s elders, was very much offended at the la ne tiihe told Mr. Peden on Monday, whit Mr. Cunningham,ilhad laici ; Vfr. Peden walking in his garden, took a turn. 1{jabout, and came bad: and charged him to go and :*“ll(Mr. Cunningham from him, that ‘'efore haiurday’s nighthe fliould be as free of a meetir ’ houfe as he was ; whi h.came to pafs : And he wa5 ch. rged ihat fame week, notfoment r his mei to g hbufe! under the pain of death.'Th i account, one Jo m M'George, in the parilh ofOrrin Gal oway, giv s wh > was there prefent.13 About the fame time he was in tlie houle of tU«Iiorefaid John blowan, who was a great friend to caricots fufferers, who fled there from the perfecution here*.( 5® )as I have heard John Muirhead and others give ac¬count : His fon, John SIdwan, gave me this and feveralither diftinft accounts The forefaid Mr. Cunninghamcarried over many of the reviews of the hiltory of theindulgence, to fpread in Ireland, in defence of the in¬dulgence here : When Mr Peden heard of them, heaid to fome friends, “ Be iJot difcourateed, for thefeooks will do no hurt in this country ; for I faw thele of them fpilt this laft night ” And fo it came toafs. for the mod of them was returned to Scotland.14. He was preaching one Sabbath-right in the faidohn Slowan’s houfe, a great number both within and•without hearing him; where he infilled on th** greatneed and udfulnefsoffeekingand grt’.iogfpirimalrirhes:he brought in an example, that if any man was going toBtlfaft or Bellimony, he would be locking his pocketsfor what he bad to bear his charges : One man hand¬ing without, faid quietly, “ Lord help me, for I havenothing to bear mine.” Mr. Peden laid immediately,pointing to the door, “ Poor n an, do not fear, for I~3have it out of heaven, as with an audible voice, thycharger, ihHI be borne, and that in a remarkable man¬ner ” That man has been mercifully and remarkablyjfuppi rted ever fince, and th u iuAhe way of his duty.15. In the fame place, in a Sabbath-morning’s family-Worihip, he fang the cxlth Pfalm, \eife 11th He laid.Sirs, I charpe you to ling this Pialm in faith.; for “-'ewill have a room-throne beljve ; feme one hath givenhiin a deadly blow, tho’ poor M01 mouth hath no handin it. A fowler, when he Ihoms a bird, it may rile andflee, but not far, tor ther-- is fome of the foot in it,”■Within ten days after, th: r,e #s of Charles 2d’s deathWas cot firmed.16. About the fame time, he faid to James SlowanWe muft go to another houfe.this night, for I ait. mif4aken if there be not a very narrow learch made thi:night.” ihey went to William Craig’s, and Jame;went with them to the houfe, and returned to his owi( 51 )bad. "Vyiien he awaked, the houfe was. full of people,conftables and others, jiaakino leach for pr.lbnea>‘, whobroke prilon and fled, but found none.17 iMrs. Maxwel, or Mary Elphingfton, yet alive, Jwho.’n I mentioned in the former paffagesj whoi heart’sthoughts Mr Peden told, when her child wa^ bapdzedthat child is now a married woman, and has chhdrenoher own, whom 1 ipoke with about three months ago.She came far (from Kilmarnock) to public occihons, ■about fifty miles Jiftance. Mrs. Maxwel told me fince,when laft in Glafgo.v, tiiat when the told me thir, Iheforgot to tell me alfo, that wnen the child was in lurFather’s argir, Mr. P den iai-J, “ L'hat child’s c minghere at this time, is a teftimony againlt the u lUitaful-nds of the minillers of Ireland Ireland thinks that".Carolina in Ame ica will be a re fug. lor them; but, asthe Lord lives, it Ihdll be no !h her to them. And theieof them, defigning to go there at this time, manythem ihall loie their lives,and the relt of them lhall come ;1 h:.nne in great dillrels.” And, at that time, there werei two fhips letting out from Ireland to Carolina; one of I! them was-call away, near Carolina, and feven icore of'people in her; the one half of them was loft Mr Jam esBrown, one of the, minifters/of Glalgow, fiuce the SRevolution, was one of the leventy who w^re prelervtcl. I1 he other ihip was. driven back to Ireland, lhatteredand difabled, and the people, greatly diltrelled.1 f>. One time travelling himlelf alone in Ireland, thenight came on, and a dark mill, which obliged him to gointo a houfe belonging to a ‘Quaker : Mr. Peden laid,5“ 1 mull beg the favour of the roof.of your houfe allnight.” i'iic Quaker laid,. “ fhou art a llrangcr, thoujlart very welcome, and ihalt be kindly entertained ; out'II cannot wait upon thee, lor I am going tr. the meeting.”Mr Peden laid, “ 1 will go along with you '’ . heQuaker faid, “ fhou may, if thou pleafe; but thou mult ;not trembie y .. ’ fie faid, “ L will be civil.” Whenthey came to the meeting, as thfeir ordinary is, they tat.K 2L. ( 52 )for foir.c time fiknt, Tone with their faces to the wall,arvl others covered. There being a void in 'he loft a-bove them, there came down the appear arcs of a . aven,and fat. upon one man’s head, who (fartedupimmed^atdy,and (poke with fuch vehmerce, that the frotn hew fromjhis mouth : It went to a iecond, and he did th : fame *rand to a third, who did a the former two Mr Pedenfitting rear to his lanciiord, laid, ‘ Do you not ft.- ; hat ?You will not deny it afterwards.” VViien they difmilTe I,going home, Mr Pedtn (aid to his landlord, “ I alwaysthought there was devilry among you. but never thoughtthat he did appear vilibly among you, till now that i haveieen it. O ! for the Lord's lake quit this way, andflee to the Lord Jefus, in whom there is redemption,through his blood, even the forgivenefs of ali your ini¬quities.” The poor man fell a weeping, and laid, Iperceive that God hath fent you to my houfe, and putit in your heart to go along with me, and permittedthe devil to appear vilibly among us this night; I neverjfaw the like before. Let me have the help of yourprayers, for I refolve, thro’ the Lard’s grace, to fokoWthis way no longer.” After this he became a lingularGhrifl nd, when he was dying, blefled the Lordthat in mercy fent the man of God to his houfe.19 i here is an cId Chnftian woman living at theWater of Leith, that 111 the beginning of 1685, went;o Ireland, to the forefaid pmlh of Conert (being bigwith childj to an aunt’s houfe, who lived there : Si oitlyafter, (lie was lafely delivered, and Mr P den baptizedher child.. After Ihe-was recovered, Ihe went on a Sab->ath-morning to rh lorefaid Johnblowan’s houfe (whereMr Peden was) expeclim. 1' rujen : being liiow, Ihe andtth rs lat (town m th kitchen, at the lire-liile j thenVlr Pedtu came and cai eu for water to walla his hands :Waen he faw them, lie taut, ,l For what do you comewithout ye had oen auvertiicd ? For I heave no-hiug nrepared lor you.” hey laid, “ O Sir, you multhot lep.d jj away empty, for we are in a aarving coadL( S3 !lion.” He faid, <c I cannot promirc you; bat if I can |get any thing, yc fhab not want it.” A little while jthereafter, he called, anti faid. <• Let not theh- people jiway, for 1 will come to them fh rtly.” Which he did, 1md preached upon that tex% %he day being far /pent,hey conf rained him to tarry all night. vVher • he broke3Ut in Itrange raptor.", expreffitig his fears of the Lord’sjeparture trona thel'e lands. He ft id, “ England for□perdition arid profanity, Ireland for fecurity and for-n.dity, great 'hall thy broke be ! For in a few years, ,lye may travel forty miles in Ireland, and not get aiight:o your pipe !” Which came to pal's four year- there¬after, in the laft rebellion He faid alfo, “ O Scotland fmany, long and great fhali thy judgments be, of allkinds, efoecially the Weft and houth, for loathing and :tontempt of the gofpel, covenant-breaking, burning and jjurying, and Ihedding of innocent, precious, dear blood?J ! all ye that can pray, tell all the Lord’s people tory, by mourning and prayer, to teagle him. O! fee ifre can teagle him, teagle him, teagle him, efpeciady iakotland ; for we fear he will depart-froni it.” When.:nded, he laid, “Take ye that among you, and makes7ood ufe of it ; for 1 have gotten it new and frefti out,'f heaven, having nothing of it this morning.” Therorehid John Mufthead, and the laid old woman, and-thersj told me, they were never witRcfles to fuch alay, for many tears, Doth from preachers and hearers.2o. After this, the old woman longed t6 be home tokotland, her hnlband (whole name was Paton) being m •'ja .ger, and hearing of fuch a kiTng in Scotian , being1685, one of the bloody years, upon fcaffoids and in theSilos , and indeed the din was no greater than the deed)1 bark being to go off with paffrngers, fhe relolving toibo along, went to take her leave: ot Mr Peden, an<4Pound him n a wood with John Muirhead, and others of flour Scots fuff r-Ts She told him her defign, and he,muled a litfte, and then faid, “ Go not a:way till x (peakwith you ” He took a turn thro’ the wood, and wheru(' SA- ). he came bac1:, he faiu, “ Janet, go back to your aunt's,,fcr you will nor. fee Scotland thefe five months; tliereIwill ftrange th ngs go through Scotland ere you go to'it, you will fee a remarkable providence in your beingI ft opt.’’ The bark 'aent off, and was catt away, and 17jpaffengers' cor pie we; e call: out at the place where they .iiook inip. John Muirhead gave me this account alio,j 21. After he came to Scotland, in the beginning ofiMarch 1685, flying from the enemy on horfeback, and.jthey purfuing, hewas forced to ride a water, where hetwas in great danger of being loft : When he got out,the cried, “ Lads, follow not me, for I afFure ycu, yeiwant tny boat, and fo will certainly drown. Ccniider,iwhere your landing will be ! ye are fighting for hell,,tand running peft to it.” Which affrighted them tocenter the water.j 22- At another time, being hard purined, he was for-iced to take a dahgerous bog and a mofs before him: Onetof the Dragoons,more forward than the reft, run bimieii^Into the bog, and he and his horfe were never ieen more.,c 23. Lying fick in a village near Cumnock, he told his[landlord, who was afraid to keep him in his houle, theiCfoldiers being to travel through that town ihe next dry,t** Ye need not fear to let me ftay in your houie, forfeme of thefe foldiers (hall keep centry at the door, butyiiail not come in.” Which came to pafs: His .ar.dlord;being digging ftones at the end of that village, told the^officers that ha was afraid the foldiers would plunder hisjeottage. They laid, “ Poor man, you deferve encour-liagcment for your virtu be not afraid of your houfe,will order two foldiers to ftand at your door, thatino man enter to wrong you.” Which they did.J 24 He lying fick about the fame time, his landlordWas fri aid to keep him in his heufe. i he enemy beingyin festfeh of hiding people, he was obliged to make &ibed for him among the ftanding corn ; at which time(there was a great rifing of the water, but not one dropfro be obi' i ved within ten foot of his bed.1 3-5. About this time he came to Garfidd, ia the parilh( 55 )of Mauchlin, ta the houfe of h'atfhcw Hog, a finith.He went to his barn, but thought himfelf not fafe, footand horfe of the enemy being fearching for wanderers,as they were then called. He defired the favour of hisloft, which Matthew refufed: He laid, “Well,well,'poorman, you wid not let ore have the fhelterof your roof; . Ibut that houfe Ihall be your judgment and ruin.” Sometime after, the gavel of that houfe fell, and killed both* jhim and his fon. Their bodies were feverely crufhed.26. d.bout the fame time, he came to Andrew Nor-manu’s houfe, in the pariih of Alloway, lliirc of ^yr,being to preach at night in his barn. After became in,he halted a little, leaning on a chair-back, with his faceCovered. When he lif ed up his head, hefaid, “Theyare in this houfe that I have not one word of falvationunto !” lie halted a little again, faying, 1 This is ifrange,that the devil will not go out, that we may begin our !work.!”— Then there was a woman wrent out, ill lookedupon for a witch. John Muirhead (formerly mentioned) ■told me, that when he came from Ireland to Galloway,he was at faniily-wmrfhip, and giving fome notes uponthe feripture reai there was a very ill-looking mancame in, and fat down within the door. He halted andlaid, “There is lome unh .ppy body juft now come in¬to this bouie i charge him to go out, and net itop mymouth.” I he man went off, a. d he infilled ; but hefaw him neither come in, nor go out.27. In tiiat bloody year 1685, he came to a houfe inthe fkirc ot kyr, C, pt' in Jobs. Malthifoo and other 12..of our wanderers bong m the houfe, he laid, “ Lads, ,iye mull go to the fields anil feck your beds, for theenemy will be h ie tuis night, and f-’ll go to mv cave.”they faicl, «• S me or us wdil fby with you, for you willweary alone.’'—‘ No, laid he, I wilt not weary. For Iia fig:. ..a the c» cmy will be here this nigh;, a godlyemuvn: v-tirnti n man, whom i have often heaiu of,but n i law, will come and lie with me tli s ni^ht.”I All v.. ch c.une to pafs : for the men fkd, and he ca¬tered tae cave, ?.nd fell alleep ; and a Utile thereafter,the faid man coming to the family, afked for Mr Pe-jden, and defired accel's t? the cave, to ly with him :When in bed, he found Mr Peden numbering, but inla littlje be awoke, ami, naming the man, alked how he■did? the foldiers came that night, but miffed their^rey. The next morning, wher/ thcle faid men re¬turned, he faid, “Lada, it was well I came to thishoufe yefternight, otherwife ye iiad been among theirbloody hands this day.28. in the faid year 1685, he came to Wei wood,'to Captain John Campbell’s, he having efcaped out ofiGanongate-folbooth, in the month of Augufl: 1684. fjBeing in danger every day, he refolved to go to Ame¬rica, and took farewel of his friends, and went aboard ''’of a fhip. Mr Peden faid to his mother, “ Mtftrefs,4what is become of John She faid, “ He is gone to? America.” He faid, “ No, no ! he is not gone ; fend,'for him, for he will never fee America ” AccordinglyJit was fo ! a ftorm arofe, where he was in great dan-*ger, but was preferred, and is yet alive.| 29. Since the publifhing of j-he former pasTiges of“Mr PedenV life and death, I received two letters from .^Sir Alexander Gordon of Earlftoun, in the year 1725, .£ and 17 26 fince gone to his gr ave ■, ilievring, that he was inot only fully faistied, but much refrefhed, with thejpaffages, requefting mf not to delay the publifhing of■;ah that 1 propofed •, and that he longed to lee them be- J>‘‘fore he went ofx the ftage : Knowing that my dayisfar ,fp. nt, being.long fince I was his fellow-prifoner, and',raugUt him from my own experience, how to manage ■the great weight of irons that wa^ upon his legs; andwifi .mg that ali the Lord’s people, who have any zeal .fo< ’he iworn-to and fea’.ed ttftnncny, and favoury re- 1mt mbrance of the names of Chrilt’s flain’witneffes for •the Lme, and of the Lord’s fignal manifeffations of his vfaithfulnefs and all-fufficiency to them, in their life anddeath, would giv.e me all encouragement in luch a pieceof good and great generation-work, which rosy be ufe- ,( 57 )al and edifying, when be .-.rid l are,both mouldering fi<he dull For himielf, l,e wdl rig would, ana 1'otne-ime a-diy could ; but now, being 74 vearli of age*n.l 7 years in itnprifemvttr.t, and often times in irons*nd miny other troubles, through hi- fire, Li^ memoryntl judgment were much broke, and therefore he couldsake me littie h-dp sO dy he remembered, he wasnee lent from the locetres in Galloway to Carr;ck>o call Vlr Peden to preach : Wnen he tohl him forth at end he was come, Mr. Pedsn went for lome t meone 5 and when he came back, lie laid, “ I am forry,arlitoun, you are come fo far in vain, for ( cannotnlwer your d fi-e ; l tan get nothing to lay to your>Jople : Nothing will convince' this generation out judg-itents. and a fu priling lump of them upon the Welt of>cot!and.” E riltoun fau’, 14-Sir, you was oiice legallyrdainedi and autborifed to preach me gofpel, arul theword’s people’s call is (iifficient ; I think you are undertemptation of enthufiafm.” Mr p-den iai-., he iome-mes feared that ; but tince he was driven from hiseople at Gienluce, his id alter, in mercy and goodhefs,ave him more encouragement; and gave one 1 dtance,"hat one time he w is called, and re<olvcd, and preparedo-go, as he thought; but, when hu h-o le wasdrawfT,e went into the barn once more. where he was tir ptare of ail his-thoughts, ana a darkening, damping cioudver.vhelnv.d him, which Itopt him : And he after wardsiw a remarkable providence in it,, and.need be tor it.Vnd, further, he la d, the laft tune he law Mr. Peden,: was w-im Mr Car.; !, where t,icy couti ucd a longimr comparing notes together j le^ing with one eve,hmkiug with out mind and Ipcaking with one breath,f all things paft, preient, and what wa^ to beial hishurefi and nation.yo. Jn iris iatt lerrnon, which, as I laid before wasn the Cohn-wood, he laid. That in a few years . f 1 ras death, t..cj£ would be a wonderful alteration offlairs in.Britain and Ireland,, and :ke perlecution in( 53 )Scotland fhould ceafe; upon which every body fhouldbelieve the deliv ranee was come, ani confrquentiyvrou!d fait fatal 1\ fecure “ But l tell you, laid he,you will be all very ti;ueh miltaker.; for botn England.;an*i Scotland will be Icourged by foreigners, and a fetof unhappy men in thefe lands taking part with them,:btf .r" my of you can pretend to tse happy, or get atho cugh deliverance, which will be a more feverechafufement than any other they have met with, orcan come under, if that were once over.*f-f -Hr -Hr -M- -H+* *Hr -Hr -M* -H+* Hf -f-4*ALETTER,FROMMr. ALEXANDER P E D E N,rTo the Prifoners in Dunnotar- CaJUeyJuly 1685.DEA\t Frjenps,I Long to hear from yon. how you fpenu your time;and haw the grace of God grows in your hearts. *1 know ye, and other of the Lord’s people, by realbn-:of the prefent trial, have got up a falhion of complainingupon Chrill; but 1 defy you to ipeak an ill word ol Him,unlefs you wrong him .apeak as you can, and fpare not;only I rcqneft that your expreffiens of Chrift be iuitable| to your experience of him. If ye think Chriit’s hou la ij be bare and ill-proviued, and harder than ye looked for,; affure yourfetves Chnlb minds only to diet you, and notto hunger you : Our Steward kens when to fpend, and; when to {pare Chriil knows well, whether heapingi or /baking agrees heft with our narrow veffeis, for both: are alike to him: Sparing will not enrich him, nor willj ipending impoverifh him. He thinks it ilhwon that is; holden off his people Grace and glory comes out of■( S9 )thrift's Incky hand. Our veffHs are but fcckler*% and:ontain little : His fulnefs i« mr^ft ftraitned when it■vants a vent- It is eafy for Chrift to be koldcn bulyn dividing the fulrefs of his Father’s houfe to his poorriends : He delights not ta keep mercy over-night,ivery day brings new mercies to the people of God :ie is the eafieft merchant ever the people of God yokedvith : If ye be pleafed with the wares, what of hisrraces makes beft for you, he and you will foon fort onhe price ; he will fell goods cheap, that ye n ay fpierror his fhcp again ; and he draws all the lale to himfdf.[ counfel you to go no farther than Chrifl. And nowwhen it is come to your door, either to fin or fufter,1 counfel you to lay your account with fufFering ; form out-gate coming horn any other airth, will be pre-udicial to your foul’s intereft. And for your encou¬ragement, remember he fepds none a warfjre on theirawn charges. And blefi is the man that gives Chriftill his money. It will be belt with you to block withhim, when you want hand-money And the lefs youhave, he has the more heart to truft you. And fo it isbeft with you o keep in with your old acquaintanceChrifl, New acquaintance with ftrange lords, is theEeady way to make a wound in grace’s fide, which willint heal m hafte ; the fore may clote before the wound| dry up. for grace is a tender place, and is very e^filyidittempered with the backflu ings of our present time.And if the w -eels of it b- once broken with fin, all theImo^ey in the world will not maKC it go about, until itbe put in Chrifl’s hand. I hope 1 hive laid more onthi* matter than is m eoful, for i have feen the marks1 of tcndcrr.efs deeply drawn <n y ur carriage ! he faf'ft;way tc^ihift the ihower, is to hold out of God’s gate,and keep within his doors, until the violence of theftorm begin to ebb, which is not yet full tide. Chriftdeals tenderly with his y< unp pla ts, arid wafers themloft, left they go back ; be painful, and not lole life forJthe ieeking. Grace, mercy and peace be.vith you.The EPITAPHUpon the Martyrs Monument in the Gray friarsChurch-yard in Edinburgh.Upon the Head of the Tomb there is the Erh^ies cf*o opt o Bible drawn, with thefe Scripture-citation;Rev. vi 7. 10, if- And •when he had opened the fift-feat. I fans.' under the alter the fouls of them that habeen flsin for the word of God, and for the iejlimon•which they held, itfc—Rev. vii. 14.Alfo the following Lines.H ALP, pafien(»er3, take heed what you do fee,This Tomb doth Ihew for what fome men did die;Here lies interr’d the daft of thofe who Rood’Ga'nft perjury, reiifting unto blood ;Adhering to the Covenants and Laws,EPahlifhing the fame *, which was the caufeTheir lives were facrific’d unto the lull:Of Tre’atifb abjur’d. Though here their duftLies mix’.’ with murderers, and other crew,Whom jurtice juftly did to death purfue ;Bit', s for ihefe, no caufe in them was foundWor hv of death, hut only they were found,Cotiftant and fredfaft, zealous, witnefiingTor tlv p ropat’ves of Christ their King.Wh'th 1 rut hs were feal’d by famous Guthrie’s head.And al al< ng to Mr Renwick’s blood.They did endure the wrath of enemies,Repr'aches, torments, deaths and n juries;Bid yr' rhev’re thefe who fr-m fu h trouble came.And now triumph in Glory with <h« Lamb.From May 27th 1661, 'a1 t^e noble Marquis ocArp 1H' ffcred, to Feb 27, 1688, that Mr Ja.Nes Renwick fufered, looNoblemen, Gentlemen, Minifters ancothrr', were executed at Edinburgh, m ble M. rtyr:for Jesus Chr-ist. The moft part of them lie hereIt is alfo Lid, that 28,000 fuffered m the late perfocution in Scotland.FINIS.