Travels from Aleppo,To the CITY ofJERUSALEM,ANDThrough the mod Remarkable Parts of theHOLY LAND, in I77<5.Wherein is particularly defer lived'Mount Lebanon, Jerufalem, and all the Curnfities inand about that once moft famous City The diverJordan, its rife and courfe The Valley of Salt, andil, Lake of Sodom. Motmt Olivet, Mount Sinai, MountI* ireb, Mount Hermon, Mount Gilhoa, and thef Rock Merihah, which fupplied the Ifraelites withWater for .'If rty-nine Years: With a minute De-feriptio i of mod ot the Places (b often me itio ied inScripture The extent aid nu nher of Acres con-tained in the Roly Land, with an Account of its pre-fent Inhabitants. A Defcription of Bethlehem, and; all its ancient Curiofines; with a Defcription ofMolech, 6 c. 6c 6c.By RICHARD T Y R O N, Efq;An En^lifh Gentleman.FALKIRK:Printed and fold by Patrick Maik.MpcC,LXXXVI.K'i ' I ''Travels from Aleppo,HAVING b-cn often ireporn n.’d by ftvera! arquaintar^es''fince my arrival in Enaland, to pub fh mytr^.vtif throkjthe Holy Land j and in mder both t f titfv t-cm a netoblige the public, 1 have complied with thttr rtq eft : there-t*fore, without any further preface, take them a> foil w:Ou Tuefday, May 3d 1776,iwe let fail from Scandt toon \vr ha K. E« wind, on board th- M r are;, Tbonaa' Mid<:!et<;«commander, bei'g ’wenty Engl fhmen (of the fndtory of A 1-leppo) in company ; but being forced to return three times byilconrrary wines, by May 10. we arrived at Tripoli, wbofe pis guarded by fix fmall catties near the f a, and one great < aftldSupon the land ; defended from temptft^on the weft with iftaBdfjttand the eaft with a cape of land; fo that orly a north uindfican prejudice (hips in this port. The ground is ftonev. vvhich(')forced the captains to buoy up their cables the ftiips tiding intifix or Feven fathom water. The town it ab. ut a roiie tienjhtthe marine, (kuate, upon the ftiel! of a hill, and hath one good|ecaftle for its defence. The town is ruinate, and there wersrfew people to be feen, it being the time of m king white filk^land moft of tV people in their gatdens.May 15. after three days treatment by the Confide (Englilh^IFrench, and Dutch) with extraordinary civility, about four in.the afternoon we fet for wart! fc M unt Lebanon; and twql?hours riding fiom Trip li, pitched u-r tent *1 the village ot>Coffcrfinne ; the inhabitants art Chrifti inr, and live in houfeetof rteds, and covere ’ with bufhts. The road to tlusvdtageBis very pieafant through a foreft of olive-trees, and in the valaflleys are gardens of mulberries with which they feed beidffiik-worms M y 14 we departed from O ffirfinue abouOifour in the morning, palling a good r >ad, and through ticAlfowed with wheat. About fix we psfled over fev* al morn-ntamre rcfernbling marble, if not really fo, from which we hadta fine profpedt of ‘he frufifulnefs of the valleys. Between,thefe mountains, upon the aicent of an hill, vve catre to ^fountain, where we breakf ;fted : At feven we rofc trom thatfountain, and p;:ffid a very dangr rous tagged mountain,bnnt nine we came to Eden, » (mall village, and very plca-u>fairly feated, bring furrcHinded woh nvali errics, and othettiforts .of trees; walnuts, efpec.iahy, we found very common itlithis mount. We wsnt to the bifltop’s h> ufe, a moft miferabldiruinatgd cottage, who, coming to hid us welcome, appeared;more like a dunghit) rather than a bifhop. We enquired » hencesJthis vitage had its name; the Maronites who inhabit themountains, fay, this was the place whqre Adam coromitted:the fin of eating the forbidden fruit; but the biftiop told utiiit was iaheaven where were tbtee trees ; Adam being finbidjiden to eat of one of them, which w *? the fig-tree; but, attrtfihaving ca^n, ht fell down frpqi heavefi among thole ccdars^ito the City of Jerufalem. gwhich are two hours from the bifhop’s houfc, and (here beganto till the ground. But the bifliop being very ignora t, weforebore to enquire farther. The bilhop has great refpeft(hewed him, every one fciffi g his hai'd* on ttieir knees bare¬headed. In this houfe he hath a ruinated church, with an al¬tar in it; and a little beyond i* a fmall chapel, near the headof a rivulet that feeds his honfe with water, where were manymen with Frank names, hieh had continued there from theyear i6ii. Mid day earning, the bifhop made what prepara¬tion his houfe would afford for dinner, k'iiing two kid* and agoat, and giving us the belt wire the mountain could afford,being a well-reldhe i red and white wme. Night com ng, af¬ter fupper we kiffed his hand; and ntxt morning, being nowbut twelve in company, went to take our leave, and tradehim t ore ent, be (ides fi.mething to the fervanu, as is ufual1 fo- pilgrims bat akr this voyage? too of our company wait-in.-our return to Tripoli. May 15. ab^u- five in the rnori ing,we r1 fe from thence, and advanced with our guides to take avi-wof Lebanon, which, when taken at large, is ab ut 300miles in circumference, ai.d eonfifts of two large mountains,Lebanon at d.Antilibanus, and appears at a (‘iftmee, tr- re¬ferable the (liape of a horfe fho- with i s opening towards thenorth. The-mountain is exceeding high, an ! looks like a* itwere four moun ains rift'g one above another: the firft has afruitful foil, cx.-ellent for vine?; 'h- fecond is barren; thethird enjoys an almoft perpetual fpring; thrfour'h is o tencovered -vi h fnow. The cedars on the top of it, « bich - ereanciently very numerous, a-e now reduced to a few, but (brieof them very la-'gr. Our guide v Id us that it was very dan¬gerous to go near the top of the mountain, as there were vaA1 numbers of lions, le pards, and other wild brafts, frequentedit; fo we could only admire the cedars at a tiiftanre Here! J rdan has it? rife, and feveral other great rivers. The *ower1 of L-banon, which looked towards Damafcus, is now inhsbit-1 td b" t’opllb monks, in circnmft nc-s very wretched; butv.11 Arabs fwai m aimoft every where in it. In the wefterapar • ot it dwell the Drufes who are faid to be the remainsI of the European Croifades, that wenf to 'hefe parts in thei nth, lath, ard 13th centuries for the recovery of the hnlyland. They are baptifed, and hate, as we we-e told, thejje- s and M-.hom*tan», and have not hi'herto fubroittrd to1 the Turkifh yoke; bu- the bulk of them have li.tle more re-jligion than the w Id beaffs a nnng whom they dwell, allowingof all manner of lewdnefs with mothe;*, lifters and daugh¬ters. In the wav as we rerur.ird, there came to us a cap;aidof a vili*f»e caller; Upfhara, he invited us to dinner at his vtl-•Ilace, which we accep ed -f, and after dinner made h:m a pre-i fc'1’' d hi. man i« a Marn ;re, and takes caffer or tuli of tfie.Turk* which pais that way with their flieep aud oxen t be hath4 Travels from Aleppo,a hundred foldiers under his command, who are a!! Ghriftiars.TJAbout two o’clock we mounted, and, after three hours ridinolwe came to a mighty deep defcent, winding in and out, whitMis the patriarch of the Maronites houfe, called Aaunibene : !is a very good convent* and lies under a rock: they have a bfltlin the church, as in hurope, and go to their devotions morr|ing and evening. After we had kifled the patriarch’s fcaniiwe demanded what was to be feen, and the druggerman carriedus to fee Marrice’s Crofs, of whom they rec< unt this (lory, t‘ That a Venetian, in the time that the franks had th|‘ count'V, came with his wife ana one daughter to live ther; i« ana after fome years his wife dying, he was refolvcd to g |* into the convent and live a rchgioua lit'-** and would theiefoil« have his daughter to. leave him, but his perfuafions eouJ u.[|* prevail with her $ but ra< her than leave bet .ather, (lie fliouSa« put on man’s ap. arel, and live * devoted life with him alfjl« which at lad (though unwillit gh) he ?,(Timed to (hebeid|< young and handfome . there then lived verv ftndly for 1.* veral years: afterward her father died. The lav-brothejf* and fathers going out, as usually, to till th-tgr, und, «* feldomwent with them, the chief of the conv.nt keepirtt‘ he' at home (b ng much taken with fuch a handfome youn/« man as he thought) whereupon then began to grumble, th|m. Marenua did not go with teem ; io that as the h'at-lj,« he wa* fent o-ut to work among them near the village 1 un|>« prefentlv after, one of the young virgins of that place proj}ing with child, fhe came to the convent, and la'd it to tl‘ charg'of S>. Marrenna. vy'hc was thereupon prefent.y <r>■« communicated, and lived a religion* life in the grot near f]convent for the fpace of feven years ; and being then agrjj' admitted into the convent, and fti'l continuing to l.ve a ve‘ ftrick life, he at length died , and the fratres coming,6 cording to their cuftom. to anoint the body f und that* was a woman whereupon the^began to crofs them.elv0 and to b 2 pardon for excotnmunicaung her, anu have bull* an altarin the grot, and called bv the name of St.MarreiwiaJfj* they have alfo in fevera1. grots thereabouts, in rememoranli‘ of the religions relics of thole that dwell therein ; and w6 they carry any body to fee them tbeu prtlentiy .an oo-vn« ^ About a league from the cx’vent, are two Frenchmen tj,live a hermit’s life, haying bread ,nd wine.allowed them rfthe patriarch: Night comi.ig.on, * e went to tupper with Hin itrtarchs the bilhop of A1 ppo and t , o other bifhoo-, w i" . ev i * a, r,. ^ ^ Kfrino-ht' r»n awhat the place afforded. At fupper ' hen br mgh’ ou a , |Iglats which held near two ilngi<t> qu rts. w.t^which^hf^man fu .n made himfelf merry, being thear cnftou to d. 1fr- -iv : he telling us, that that ghds had belonged o t m ccbvent above a hundred years ; and that the 1 urka eommg orttto the City of Jerufalen\. 5*Re ranf>ck the convent, feeing this glifs, told the Fratrcs, ifhe could d ink that off full of rure wine, he would fave theconvent; which one f them doing, the Turks went away*admiring what fort of p ople they were. M»y 16. We took•ur leave of the pstrarch, and prefected him with fonne mO“ney, alfo the poor Fra'ret. and others belonging to the con-v nt, a"d fo took our journey fo Tripoli, having had a reviewfcf tT'Ofe mnun'aina ant the country adjacent, overlpread withitpary fair villages, and fruitful valleya Town with coin, and 3,great quantity of mulbe ry g-rde s ; it bring the general em-p! irment of the inh b ta ts to mahe fi k.We returmd t.i Trip li to the Conful’s houfe laft right,| wh re, after two divs rtpofe, and liavirg been extraordinary; W“!l trea ed we tork odr leave of the Conful. May 18. aboutmidnght we fet fail f-r J ippn, with a good wind; in the|ntd> nhtg we cam; in fighi of Cape Blanco, where the windf pr vtng co'd^ary, nve were forced to beat up and down for twoj eays before we could weather the mpe. The wind coming' good we weathered it, and came in fight of Cape Carmel;j which two capes rmke the bay of Africa, on which there is ai convent of white friars, and here they iliCwed us Elifha’a1 tomb Three or four h'»urs lail further, we came in fight of|Cxfarea, now iuina-e and inhabited by favage Arabs. May* i3^we arrived at Joppa, being about 34 miles N. W. of Jc*| rufalem, which hath no harbour to defend (hips from ftorctB,| but very good ground to anchor in, about ten fathem water;!’. it is a poor town, arid hath one caftle to defend tbofe fhipSI that c >me in clofe to the ihoie ; the chief trade thereof is potalhes for foap, cottons, and cotton yam, which the Frankabring from thence. May 26. we arrived at Ramah, about fixmiles north from Jeuifalem, a p’eafant village ; the trade of; the inhabitants is in Fillado's; the people are poor, and the| livelihood of the women is to fpin it. We were treated thereat the convm’, till a mefienger was difpatched to the convent| at Jaufalem, for our admittance to pafs thither, becaufe offume extravagant Rories that flew ab oad, of the plague rag¬ing in the place from whence we came. Cur meflenger re¬turned back that night.Miy 47. In the morning, we mounted to lake our journeyfor Jerufalem, and halted at St. Jeiom’s church about twelve,to eat wuat fn all provifiun we nad with us: and the heat ofthe day beii.g p-ifT.-d, we proceeded on our journey; and a-1 b nit four in the afternoon, we tarried till the druggermen ofI the convent went to*the cady for licence for us to enter the ci-ty , which having obtained, and delivering up our fwords,and what other arms we had, to be carried to the convent,we entered the city on foot, and were conduced by the drug-r rmen to the La'ines convent, with two or three fathers; weund them at their devotion, and afterwaidt all went into6 Travels from Aleppo, 'the father guardian’e chamber, who embraced, ar d bid us wercome: vve were carried to our lodgings, and the father prercurator came to us, and paffed a complement on us, bringir:!two or three bottles of the bell wine, and detiring us t;call for what we wanted: this was our firft entertainmentsbut I fliould have told you that our druggerman, MellanttSalley who conduded us from Joppa through the mountairfiup to Jerufalem, was formerly a robber himfelf, and cousjtherefore the better carry us through the Arabs*- who mokifithefe mountains, and live all upon purchafe ; he was a Greekby nation and religion. Nfiw to our further entertainment a;Jerufalem, the next morning father Tamafo, a lay-brotheifmighty ferious and religious in their way, came to our ebamrtb:r with milk, wine, and fruit, with a bleffing in his meuthpthe feafon being very hot; and about twelve o’clock we went;to dinner, two or three lay-brothers attending at the hall-dotjlfwith a bifon and water for us to wa(h; and then entering thi-> hall, the fathers Rood all on one fide, near one another, fayr?ing a grace in Latin, and then finging the Lord’s prayer all to»;gether ; and afterwards bowing towards the pidure of cultSaviour at fuppsr with his apoftlee, which is placed over th\guardian’s head, adorned with filver croffes about it, &c. Thl'guardian ha'h his table along in the middle of the room, ani«two long tables fiand on each fide, one for the pilgrims, a««the other for the fathers ; after they had kifs’d the ground w »all fat down, and had every one his allotment brought inlittle difl), never wanting three or four courfes of fcveral fort iof meat. Our wine, water and fruit was fet ready ; the win*about a quart, the water fometbing lefs, which was the allowance of two men, and bad two glaffes belonging to it. Aboutthe middle of dinner, the father came and changed our wate.jfthat it might drink the freffier. Dinner being ended, tnefaiit£er guardian knocks, and the fratres rife and kneel with theifaces towards the pidlure of our Saviour with his difeipks ailfupper, and then mumbling fomething to themfelvts, they kif;and then begin to take away, one carrying the difftes, anothekthe knives, every one having bis appointment ; and then givti'thanks in the fame manner as before dinner; then waffling a:the door, thej; go into the church for a quarter of an hourfithis they do daily, rifing always early, and in the night alfo, t4go to mafs.At this time there were two or three ChriftiauS came fromBethlehem, wbofe art is to make the figure of our Saviour’, ifepulchre, or what holy ftory you pleafe- upon ;cur arm |they mike it of a blue colour, and ia done by the contiouajiipricking of your arm with two needles. They began prefent^f'ly to go to vvo>k on fome of us; and having prefented us tha(patterns of abundance of prints, every one took his fancy.The next day, May 37th, we all agreed to go into the tern- cto the City of Jcrufalem. Jpie, and about four in the afternoon we went- Ten ot twelvefathers live there continually, and have their church there.The door is fealed with the caddy’s feal, and when any mangoes in, he pays fourteen livres. We being cntced the tem¬ple, the fathers came and faluted us, and condufted us to theirlodgings; where, after we had been about an hour- *bey pre-p tred to go in procefiim to all the holy places, prefenting uievery one a book of holy fongs, for every place in Latin.And fo we fet out, the fathers being drefled in white fur-plices, and the chief among them with cloth of filver ever hisfurplice, with two more drrflcd in the like garb to lead him;there whs a great filvtr crucifix carried before him, and twomen going on each fide of it, with po's of tncenfe to perfumeevery h ly place that we came to. And fo we went to theplaces following.i. Tne pillar to which our Saviour was bound when he wasfcourged 2. The prifon wherein he was put- 3 The placewh.-re the foldiers d:vided his garments. 4- Tne placewhere St. Helena found our Saviour’s crofs. 5. The pillar towhich he was bound when he wa* crowned with thorns. 6.M oont Calvary, where he was crucified. 7. Where our Savi¬our Wts nailed to the crofs. R. Where he was anointed 9,The fepulchre of Chrift 10. Whcxe our Saviour appeared toMary Magdalen in the ihape of a gardener. 11. The chappdof the Virgin Mary, where our Saviour firft appeared to herafter his rcfurredt'.on. I might give you a particular deferip-tion o( the adornment of theie places ; but, to be fhort, everyone hive lamps burning at them, fome are paved with marble*others are hung with pidtures; the place where our Saviourwas laid down to be nailed to the crofs, it paved with marble,alfo; but in the exadt place where the crofs flood, the marbleis covered over with filver, wi;h filver lamps, and wax candle*continually burning, and our Saviour crucified Handing on it;the fepulchre alfo is covered with marble, with filver lamp}continually burning on it; fo hath the anointing ftone- Youmuft go into the fepulchre bare-foot, as alfo on Mount Calvary.Here all forts of Chriltians have their churches, the Greekshave belt; but the Latins, the Arminians, the Coptes and theSyrians, have each of them churches here. The Greeks andLatins are the two powerful religions in the temple, and withgreat fums of money, and the credit they have at Stambul orGonftantinople, buy thefe holy places out of one another’shands. The other parties are poor, and fqueeaed into a finallpirt of the temple. The Latins once offered ten thoufandlivres for a piece of the crofs, which the Greeks bought outof their hands. Thefe religious people bear little refpedt oneto another, fpeaking very bafely of each other. After our pro-cefiion we went to view all the places and churches again.The Greeks have a place in the middle of their church, which8 Travels from Aleppo,they fay is the middle of ‘he world. They hare anothe*"place hy the- pnfon of Chrift with two bole? to put die feet in !and alfo a narrow psflige bf’ween two pillarj, in imitatirm of .the ’radnef. of the path to htavi-n, which tbr Greek" cre'p ■through In the church of the Svrisne is the intended fepuTchre ot Jofeph of Arimathea and N'codemus; and near the :anointing ftone is a tomb where Godfrey and Baldwin kings ( fJcrufalem are buried- In the fame place is the rent of thenock, which begins above, near the place where our Saviour twas crucified ; and in that rent they fay Adam’s he d was afound when our Saviour gave up the ghoft. Thus having feen £the temp'e we returned to the convent.May 28. we went ont of the city at Damafcus gate, and jturning 011 the right came to one of the fifh-ponds of the old fccity, and a quarter of a mile further to the grot where J;re- -!piah lived when he wrote his lamentations: on the left hard 3in the entrance, is a lodge in the rock, about a fiory high,where they fay Jeremiah flept; and below, over againft the jdoor, is a hole intended for his fepulchfe ; palling through aruinate door, you come into the yard where his well is, being ;a very good fpring of fvveet water, and there you pay one livre. -Afterwards paffing along the fide of a mountain that lies level Iwith the city, a little beyond Jeremiah’s tomb, we came to «the frpulchre of .the kings; the entrance into the firft room is jilfo fmall and low, that vve were forced to creep, in which there '■were (even fepulcbres cut out of the rock: in the fecond room 1there are eight, and in the third twenty fix, and many morein feveral others. One of the rooms hath a door of ftone cutout of the rock, and (huts and opens as a door with hinges:This door belongs to the room wherein Jehofaphat was buried,bis coffin is of ftone, with a cover to it, very neatly wroughton the fi les with flowers, as feverals are alfo in the firft room;but they know not what kings they are. There is alfo ano¬ther chamber into which we crept; fo that there is in all forty-two burning places under ground, to which there is but onedoor to enter, all adorned with admirable worktnanlhip, whichI being unfkill’d in, am unfit to exprefs in proper terms ; andfo we return’d to the convent, entering the city at the famegate. May 29. we repofed, feme of our company being amarking themfelves. May ?o. we took horfe to go for Beth¬lehem, about fix miles fouth of Jerufalem, and went out atthe weft gate, and turning on the left hand, and takine thelower oath, we palled along the road that the Virgin Marybrought our Saviour when Ihe came to offer him at the temple;and half a mile from the city is the place where the tree-Tira-bintha grew, which the Virgin Mary fat under to give himfuck ; but thetiee being cut down the place is encompafledwith a wall: On the left hand you fee David’s houfe, whencehe ’ipitd Bethflieba walking herfelf; on the right, a little ofto the City of Jerufalctn. $the road, is old SimtOrt’s and Elias’s houfe ; and a qsarttr ofa mile further is the well, where the wife men firft faw the flar.A little further is the ground where the reapers were at work,when Habbakkuk comirvg to bring them meat, the angel tookhim up by the hair of the head, and carried him into Baby¬lon, to Daniel in the lion’s den : Afterwards we faw Jacob’shoufe, at>d a hill like a fugar loaf, where the Franks remainedforty years after they were driven out of Jerufdem; Next isa monaftery of monks cf the order of St. Tavola Paula Ro¬mans, who, when they die, are buried at a convent in Beth¬lehem. A mile further, is the place where the angel appearedto the fhepherds, and cried, ‘ Gloria in Excelfis, &c.’ whenour Saviour was born, where there hath been a convent, buthere only is an arched vault; we paid money to the Arabs,who, when they efpy any Franks going thither, ride poft beforeto take poflclTion of 'he place, and get fomething from them-A quarter of a mile hence, in the way to Solomon’s cifterne,is the village of the flieptierds, on the back part whereof is awell, of which'the Virgin Mary defiredho drink; but the in¬habitants denying to diaw her any water, it prefen’Iy over¬flowed for her to drink. A little way from this village is Jo-feph’s houfe, and a while af er we came to Solomon's eardens,lying (helving. At the bottom of " em is the road from GraridlCairo, and round the h p pafles an acqueduit vfbich feeds Je-' rufalem with water, (from thence we raw Ftkoa (landing ona high bill) the waters come from he fountains which feedSolomon’* citterns. Faffing a mile akng by the acq*iedu<S, wecame to Solomon’s citterns, which are three; the firtt had nowater in it, and might be about 150 yards long, 60 broad, andof a great depth ; the fecond bad a little W'ater, fomething leftin compafs ; the third was full, and as b:g as the flrtt j Theyrun one into another, and are fed by the fprings that feed thecity. The fathers fay that t+iey weie made to fw,im in, beingbuilt with fteps for a man to go down ; but feem rather intend-i ed for a refeive of water for the city or gardens, having a pa(Vfage to both. Near the garden is an ill-contrived tattle, where-a few villains inhabit, to whom we paid one livre per man, forleave to go i^-to the grot where the fprings are that feed theci y and the citterns; it is large, and hath three fprings, and alarge paflage cut through the rock towards the citterns, pafla-b’e by a man, but we went not to ,the end of it.We mounted our horfes, leaving the cattle cn the right-hand; at a d ftance we faw St. Geo ge’s church, where thefa h -rs f>y the chains remain whe ewith St. George was bound,which will prefejntJy cure a madman, if bound therewith. Af¬ter an hour and a half’s riding we.came <<c-.r Bethlehem, wherepatting th ough 3 narrow lane, the guard, confiding of fouror five mufqueieers, received five livres of every one of us,and tire drrggerinca that went with us received three ; when10 Travels from Aleppo^arriving it the convent we paid one for our entfiflW. Aft£f 'ibeing welcomed by the fathers we took our repofe till five inthe evening, and then prepared to go in proceffion to the holy ■ [places, in the fame manner as w-e did at the temple in Jerufa- ••le..K The places we v;ftted were thefe :i. The place where our Saviour was born. a. The tomb of SSt. Jof-ph, to whom the Virgin Mary was efpoufed. j. St. LInnocent’s tomb. 4 The place where St. Jerom lived, when uhe trar.flated the bible into Latin- 5. St. lerom’s praying :place. 6. St. Jerom’s tomb. 7 St. Paul’s tomb. 8. St. Eu- •ftachias her daughters. 9. The fepulchre of St- Eufebius, Ab- •hot of Bethlehem, to. We return to tke chappel of St. Ca- •tharina, built by St. Peula, Next is the great church without Itthe convent, which hath forty-eight pillars of marble, about Itthree yards long, all in one p^ece. At evening we went to vi- •fit the place of our Saviour’s birth, formerly belonging to the :Latines, till the Greeks bought it out of their hands ; fo that jnow the Latins, when they go to their procefiion, pray at that ;door by which they formerly entered. The prec:pio has two <doors, one over againft the other, well lined with carved iron,and ftrengthened with iron fpikes: we went in barefoot. On ithe right-hand, in the entr,-^ e, is tbephce they fay where cur 1Saviour was born, which is lined with marble; and in the :middle of the ro- m there is a plate covered with filver, bywhich they fet a d Ih to receive rour charity : On the left-band is the manger where the Virgin Mary laid our Saviour,lined with marble ; and Jl the end of the manger on the right-hand, is the pidture of St. Jerom naturally in the marble, whichthe fathers eftetm as a miracle; over againft this manger is theplace where the three wife men flood when they csme to wor- •fhip our Saviour. At the end of this place, in a corner, is abole made up with marble, wherein they fay the Virgin Maryput the water when fhe had wafhed her hards ; over which alamp burns continually, and a great many in other places.Over this precipio, in the great church, is the altar of circum-cifion, where our Saviour was circumcifed/Having feen what was rare at Bethlehem, May 31. early in 1the morning we proceeded in our journey, in which we fawthefe places following : 1. The grot where the Virgin Ma- •ry hid herfelf when ihe was warned to flee into Egypt. Inthis time of her fear, fay they, the milk left her bltffed breads, ,fo that the babe wasalmoft like to be (larved ; but fhe prayingto the Almighty, there came forthwith abundance, which o-vetflowing her breaft, and falling to the ground, left everfince, as they alledge, this confequcnt virtue to this cave. The :earth of the cave is as white as fnow, and hath this miraculous ioperation, that a little of it, drunk in any liquor, to a woman 1that after her child-birth is barren of milk, fhail forthwith 1give her abundance, which is not only available to Chnftians, ,td the City Jerufaiem? Hbut likev/ife to Turki-Tn, Moorifh, and Arabic women, y/hawill come from far countries to fetch of this earth, *. David'scitterns. 3. The grot wherein the Virgin Mary and Jofephlived before they could get a houfe. 4. The tomb of Rachel,Jacob’s wife, which the Turks do alfa much efteem. 5, Thefield of Sennacherib, where the angel of the Lord flew in onenight 183,00 of the Syrians. In this place is a village calledBotechelle, where the fathers affirm no Turk can live. 6. Theplace where the pillars of the convent of Ramah were made.7. The vineyard whence the fpies of the land of Canaan tookthe clutter of grapes, to fhew the fruitfulnefs of it; alfo thefountain where Philip brpt zed the queen of Sheba’s eunuch*8. The defart of John Baptift ; and after an hour’s riding, wecame to J >hn Bap till’s fount dn, where was his chamber, amia rock, wherein 'here was a place cut like a bench for bis head"To break off a bit of this rock is worthy excommunication.9 Zechariah’s hotafe, where the Virgin Mary came to faluteher coufin Elizabeth; for the angel that told her tte fnouldconceive, told her aifo, that her coufin was with child ; and fupon her falutation, the child leaped in her womb. Near thishoufe is a fountain with two cittern^, which is called Eliza¬beth’s fountain. 1. A ftone where J ibn Baptift preached,which the Fathers fay, the Turks have endeavoured to breakin pieces, but could not. 11 Where [ohn Biptift was born,now a ftable, but formerly a church : The fathers upon JohnBaptift's day, carry an organ thither, and adorn the place fortheir prayers ia. The tombs of the Macabres, which we fawat a diftanee, and being ruinous, appear as fo many arches.13. We paired by a village, where the men are all Turk’s, andthe women Chriftiins ; for the people being poor, the Turk*were very fevere with them for their Harach, who not beingable to pay all at once, turned Turks, &c. 14^. We came to themountain of Crupil, where part of the wood whereof our Sa¬viour’s crofs was made, was cut down, and over the placewhere they fay the tree flood, is a (lately church, in the pof.feffion of ihe G;eek3 : th- place juft where the tree grew is inlaid with filver. by whith they fet a difh for charity. The floorof this church is Well wrought with Mpfaic work, and pvntedwith feriptnre (lories : and inftead of a bell, they knock upoaa board that hangs up, which founds fomewhat like a bell.And now we go forward to the conveut at Jeruialem, pafs-ing fry m unt Gihon, where Solomon was anointed king, aridabout night came to our lodgings, having made two daysjourney to fee the holy places, and traverfe the mountains of■ Judea ; vre fltpt well that night, but (till have more pilgrnia-ges. June 1. We lay (till to recover ourfelves of our Beth¬lehem journey ; but father Tomafo, out of his zeal, is veryimportunate with us, to be walking to fee other places, whichis very meritorious in the P.oman church, and had we been oit Travels &offi Aleppd^their religion, it had been impoflible to have tnifs’d hearen }for we had received indulgences for all our livea; which fancyI wifh do not deceive too many. June 2. We began to fearchfor the holy places, which are tbefe following: 1. The im- 'molation of llaac near the temple called Mount Moriah, inlaidwuh (ilver, and a di!h fet by for your offering, a. Peter’s pri* >fen, ftiil msde a pidfon by the Turks ; at the end of which, isia hole in the wall, where they fay the chain was fattened with iwhich St. Peter was chained ; little rememheri g how oft Je-* -rufa’em hath been deftroyed, and the (tones of that old wallare now probably as far under ground as thofe arc above. 3. ||The monaftery of the knights of Malta; a very fair building,one room hath fevers! partitions for beds, with a hole in the t?middle, that if any of them are lick or (luxitive, they are ’aid .there, to which the water being bad, and the air unwholtVme,doth very much incline them. 4 Solomon’s temple, which ifany Chriftian go into, or but Up the ftairs, he muft turn Turk^or be burnt ; the rarity of which, I (ball give you an account pof when I come to a profpe<5t. 5. St. Helena’s hofpital, where ,there are feven great calHroas, in wliich (he uftd to have pro* mvifions dreffed for the pour, where we pay one livre for en¬trance. 6. The judgment gate at which our Saviour Was 3brought in ; and near the gate i- the place where he was con¬demned. 7. The dolorous way which Chrift went to be cm-«cified; and in the way is the boufe ot Veronica, who gave ®ur hSaviour a napkin to wipe his f ce, as he pa.Ted by ; there is al-fo Lazarus’s houfe, and the houfe of the ric> gluttpn, and the ’>place where our Saviour ftirted (as they fay) and Simon tookup the crofs; and near that is the church where the VirginM ary flood to fee him pafs by, and fainted with grief, nowcalled the Virgin Mary’s ohurch. 8. Herod’s palace, now inruins, and is now the Bafla’s Stragfo; in one room is the placewhere.they clothed our Saviour v ith purple. 9. Pilate’s houfe,here they fliew the place where our Savi. ur was crowned withthorns, and the pillar to which he was bound? which was >brought from thence and put into the temple; next we enterthe hall where pilate wafhed his hands, and declared himfetfinnocent of our Saviour’s blood ; out of which we had a fairprofpeetof Solomon’s temple, it isbuiit within the middle of ia fpaciops yard, of about 500 paces long, and 3 to broad, very \Well paved, and there are feveral arches, good walks, and build- ■ings about it. The temple is wrought with Mofaic work, and 1by the Turks report, is very rich within, it being one of theirtemples or Mofques; and tho’ they have a hai1-' moon upon alltheir Mofques, yet this only hath a crofs thro’ the middle, the :fathers reporting it would not ftand till the crofs was made.But this Mofque or temple is a confiderable way to the fouth-eaft, where Solomon’s temple flood; for Julian the Romanemperor, in concurrence with the Jews, to give the lie to our!to the Cky of Jenifalem.' 13Saviour, who had faid, ‘ One done of it. fhould not be left a-bove another,’ twice attempted to rebuild it about the ye’r360, but earthquakes and fl .mea of Ere diipe-fed their mate¬rials, and killed a vaft nu Tiber •>? their workmen, ic. Theplace where Chrift was fcuurgcd. now's fhoa tor linen cloth.IX. The h 'Ufe of Annas, where our Saviour being hurried withviolence down a deep place, to prevent falling, he laid h old ofthe corner of a wall, where there ia a place in one of theftonesfit for a man’s hand, which the fathers account a great mira-e!e. tz Simon, the PhmlVes houfe, where there is a done,with the pent of a foot, which they faid our Saviour made,when he flood to parJ n Mary Migdaltn’s fins. The fathersfay, the Turks have o tentim s endeavoured to remove thisdene, but ftillit comes to the fame place again. 13. The houfeof Joaktm and Anna, a fair high building; and in an underroom, cut cut of the rock is the place where they fay the Vir¬gin Mary was born. 13. The pool of Bethfaida, where thefick lay to b; healed, on the angel coming to trouble the water,and he that entered inhrft was healed ; it is about lio pacesbrig, 50 broad, and 8 deep, b it it is now dry, and haif filledwith earth, ij. St- Stepheu’s gate, and a little out of the ci¬ty is the place where Stephen wasftoned, and the fathers fancythat there is the print of his hands, face and knees, when hefed down. 16. 1 he valley of Jehofaphat, at the bottom of thsbill, between the mountain on which Jerufalem ftands andMount Olivet. 17. The place where the Virgin Mary is buri¬ed; whence going down a great msny (tone fttps, you comeinto a large vault, where ail the Chriftians have their altars a-part, all being of feveral opinions, and the Turks andChriftian*both burn lamps over her grave: Here we pay one livre forentrance, and 48 Hone Heps upward is Jofeph’s tomb, and a*gainft that, the t-omb of Joaklm and Am a- 18. The placewhere Chrift fweat blood, and tbe angel appeared to comforthim, is near the bottom of Mount Olivet, 19 The placewhere our Saviour prayed that this cup might pats from him ;and near that is the rock on which hisdifciples fat, when hewent to prayer, between which two places he was taken ; itis now bordering on the garden cf Gethfemane. but mightformerly be pait cf the garden, and is on the afeeat of .MountOlivet: Where the multitude going to carry our Saviour away,Peter fmote off Malchus’s ear. Mount Olivet Is now about600 paces call of Terufalem, and feparated from it by the valleyof Jehofaphat, and brook Kidron ; it has three tops, the moftnorthern ia the higheft, and the fouthern the lowcft. 50. Theplace where they fay the Virgin Mary prayed for St. Stephen,while he was a (toning, at. Where Chrift wept over Jerufa¬lem, it is almoft at the top of Mount pliyet. aa. The placewhere our Saviour afeended into heaven, having, as they fay,kft the print of his foot on a done,' it hath now a chapel built14 Travels from Aleppo,over it, and a little way off is the place where the men ofGalilee ftood, when the- angel atked them, 1 Why (land yegazing up, See"’ zj. Where the angel toid the Virgin he fhouldbe railed in three days. 24. Pelagias’s gro% whence we lawBethpage, where the afFes cult was tied. 15. The tree underwhich our Saviour flood when he preached the judgment fer-mon. 26 The place where he made the Lord’s prayer. 27.Where the apoftles made the creed, being a group of i» arches.a8. The fepulchre of the prophets, 47 in number, cut out ofthe rock, and entering in at a door, we came into a large grot,where are feveral places cut out, fit to contain a coffin, andhere we paid one livre. 29. The tree where Judas hangedhimfeif. 30. The fepulchre which Jehofaphst intended forbimfelf, but being a king, he was buried in the fepulchre of thekings. 31. Abfalom’s pillar or fepnlchre, cut out of the rock,and about the bignefs of a fraall chamber, with pillars roundabout like a room built for one fmgle perfon ; it is of a goodheight, and hath fome carving about it. 32. They fay, nearby is the print of Chrift’s feet; for, when he was carried tojerufalem he (lopped at the brook Kidron, and defired todrink. This brook runs along the eaft fide of Jerufalem, andthe wed fide of Mount Olivet, thro’ the valley of Jehofaphat,and tho’ it receives alf the rivulets about Jerufalem, it is butfmall and fometimes dry; but upon fudden rains it fwellsmuch, and runs with great violence, and carries off the filthof the city, which by the common fewers is carried into if.33. The place where St. James hid himfeif three days a^dthree nights; it is cut out of the rock. 34. On the fide of thehill on which Solomon worfliipped Molech, are chambers cutout of the rock, which they fay was the place whereia the 300wives and 700 concubines of Solomon were kept, when hegavehimfeif up to that abominable idolatry. Molech, which literallyfignifie? king, was an idol of the Ammonites ; this idol was ofbrafs, and placed on a throne of the fame metal; h:s head,which refembled that of a calf or ox, was adorned with a roy¬al crown, and his arms were extended, as if to embrace ar ythat approached him. He was hollow within, where fire wasplaced to heat the idol, that it might burn the offerings. Therewere feven different apartments for receiving the different obla¬tions of meal, turtles, ewes, rams, calves, oxen, and children.It is faid the unhappy parent, who off:red his child to Moleeh,put him into the burning arms of the idol, where he expiredamidft t -rrible pain, while drums, &c. were beat to drown hiscries an 1 that the facrificed child was burnt, in order to ob¬tain a bleffing on the reft of the family. 35. fhe fountains ofthe Virgin Mary, w' ich you go dewn by (tone ileps: the wa¬ter whereof is fo fwgct, that were a man blindfolded, he couldnot think it to be any thing but milk and water. 36. Theplace where the prophet Ifaiah was fawn afunder ; his fepnl-to the City of Jerufalem. 15eliri ia under a rock near the fame. 37- The fountain of Si-loa, bf which ia a ciitern, wherein formerly the pilgrims ufedto wafh, but now ruin’d and filled with mud, yet ia its water{till accounted good for the eye-fight; and near this is Gol¬gotha; they fay Adam was buried here, but it is certain thatJefus was crucified. 3.8- Near the bottom is a well, whereinthey fay Nehemiah hid the holy fire, when the children of If-rael were carried captive, and when they returned forty yearsafter, they fav they found the fame fire in the well. 39. A-feending up the mount, we came to the tombs of Annas andCaiaphas, who were high pricfts. 40 And near is the placewhere the apoftles hid themfelves; entering a fireight paflagewe came into a room under ground, out of which there go fe¬ver a! ho'es, wherein they fay ihe apoftles lay. 41. We thencame to Acceldema a grot, now held by the Armenians for aburying'place ; it is faid to be the potter’s field, which wasbought withthe thirty pieces of filver, which was given by theJ^ws to Judas to betrhy our Saviour ; and it is faid the earththereof will cemfume the body of a man in forty eight hours ;there are feveral vents on the top to fet out the fraell. Wewent down under a rock, to a place where we could look intoit, and there faw the Form of a man entire, he being onlynew laid in, but not covered with earth. 41. We came tothe fountains of Beerfheba, at the bottom of mount Sion, inwhich there is little water, we being forced to tarry a quarterof an hour for ore draught.Having feen all that was remarkable in thefe parts, we madetowards the convent, having got a great deal of credit withfather Tomafo, that we fhould be fuch zealous pilgrims, asto walk from five in the morning till mid-day ; but to encou¬rage us wou’d H-ill gofmemoft, and told us always there wasfome place more worth our feeing than any before;, and tho’he was old, and the weather hot, yet at the going up of a hillhe would run, that he might be foremoft, and gave all theg od words that could be, to encourage us Proteftants, whonever hop’d or thought that vve merited any thing by it} butat length we came to the convent again well wearied, evetyone retiring to his lodgings.June 3. We repofed at tbe convent; after dinner one ofthe fathers came and told us, that the fa'her guardian wouldwafh our feet; which honour we accounted too great for us,and defired to be txcufed ; but we were forced to comply withthe orders of the convent; the bafi n, which was as big as atub, was placed by a chair, there were rofe leaves and herbsput into the water; the fathers flood in a row, ftnging godlyhymns. We fat down, and the father guardian wrapt a towelabout our knees, to fave cur cloths; then they began to ferubour legs and feet, being mafters of their art; there were twofratres attending, one on one le£, and another on the other ;i6 Travels from Aleppo,having firfl: dried the left foot, the father kiffes it, and puts on iour flipper, then he dries the right foot, and wraps the towelabout the foie of the foot, and fetting it on his knee, coversthe toes with his hand, and then come ail the frairea and klfsit; he then gives us a little candle, in taking which, we ktfshis hand and fo rife and ftand by, till all our company arewashed in like manner. Then went we in procefiinn roundtheir chapel, they faying feveral-prayers at three altars, and fo 1we returned to our chambers. June 4. After dinner we wentinto the kitchen, where we found all the fathers, with nap¬kins before them, walhirfg the diihes. every one taking hisparr, even to the father guardian himfelf; feme were eleanfiug,fome handing away; but all the while, with or>e confent, they ;fty fome prayer, it feeming to be their endeavour, that ail 'that they do, may be to the glory of God. This b ing done, jthey go alt to prayers, and you (hail never fee the ci ; pel with¬out fome of them ; yea, and two or three times in the night :|they rife to prayers. On V/hitfunday the chapel was adornedfomething extraordinarily, a very rich canopy being fet on theright-hand of the high altar, for the father guardian to (it un¬der; when the prayers began, the father guardian came intot'ae chapel, and fat under this canopy. There were three orfour fathers dreft in cloth of filver like heralds, two whereofattend on each (ide of the guardian, and two flood over agaii fthim. Then they begin to drefs the father guardim in hisftfti-tal robes, and having read two or three lines, put a piece oflinen laced about his neck, and then his turpiice, reading ftiilbetween every robe that was put on. Then they cover himwith a garment of rich fattin, and cloth of fdver; the twothat flood over againft him, bowing at fome words. His bodybeing thus dreft, the two fathers put a mitre on his head withall the refpedt imaginable; and after a (hort prayer, they takethe father guardian by the hand, and lead him to the altar, he(landing in the middle of the four fathers, adorn’d as aforefaid.The other fathers have their furplices on, and the organs go :then making a (hurt prayer at the altar, they lead the guardi¬an to his place again ; and after a little reading they take effhis mitre, and he fits bare nil the prayer be done; then theyput on another mitre; the firft was of cloth of (liver, and thefecond was of cloth of gold, fet full of rubies, diamonds, andother (tones; they took off that alto, and put on a thiid mitreof cloth of gold, differing in drape from .he others. Theguardian being led to and from the altar a great while, atlength when they came to read where the Holy Choft camedown upon the apoftles aftembled together, a father upon theterrafs was appointed to throw down a white,pigeon, dreft upwith ribbons, in imitation of the Holy Ghoft; but he metwith fome difficulty, for the window was (b fall (but that hecould not open it for a great while, fo that we had like toto the City of Jerrfalem. , . 17have por.e v himt 'heir Holy Ghofl; tut thie d flicyltybeipg overcf'iue. h? rr <ie the Dove etefcencl nmong u», whichbeing done, after a uraytt they began to urdnfs the fatherguardian again, reading all thr while his robes *ere taking off;and fo shit davs fervice • a« doneNow we began to 'hink < f going to the Dead S a, and theriver 7ordan. de.nardit g what out expence won't be the fa¬ther* fay 2 5 livrts, but we all agreed r.ct t p vt ahtvesc. Thefathers fem our rt folutior to the R ffa. arc he reiurntV: an v. erthat if we would go, we ftould pav 22 hvres. and if w e v ou'.dcot, he would have 10 livr<s a rr.sri. Wt thirkirp cm ft Ivesunder his command, were not w i'ling to erribrr il the convent,who bear all damages, as they have done to feyerals; butthanks to God, none hajp-ned in t ut 'irr.e. We . !] rcfolvedto go, except Mr. T. H one Engliftman more, and a Du’ch-ntan, not thinking the Bsffa had bet n in eatncfi; but becaufethey went not, they were forced to p?y to lutes for no hirg.We then came to Bethany, two miles etft trom Jerufal rn,cow a fir.all village, where entering into « gret urdcr ground,we faw a tomb, from whence they fay our Saviour railed La¬zarus, after he had. been dead fo m rry days A litllc further,they fhow you the houfe of Mary Magdalen, and the wellwhich the apoftles ufed to drink. Here we had the BafTa’sgutrd to wait upon u*, for fear of the Arsbs, v bo are on theother fide of iheland of Moab, and often make incurfions,and have fharp difpote" at the end of the lance, with thofethat live on this fide, in the land of promife. The BafTa pre¬tended he muft fend fifty nun with us, but it proved but fif¬teen or fixteen. Having repofed a little r n the ground, aboutnine at night we mounted our horfes, and puffing through theturning and winding of the mountaii s, came in the morningto tbe foot of the Quarantine mountain, where we difmour.t-cd, and making the cold earth ou; bed, flept two or threehours, having our horfes made faft to our hands ; and at tbefun rifing we rofe alfo, and walked to Eliffia’e fountain, aSones throw off, and before the fun was too hot, we mountedour horfes at the foot of tbe mountain,and fo began to afeendit, being very fteep; having afeeaded a great height, wecame to the place where they (ay our Saviour fltpt, when hefired forty days, and from that the mountains received itsname. This place is near the h ight of the mountain-; butthe-paffage to the P p is only known to the Arabs: there is achurch over it, where fome fathers have lived, till they weremurdered by the Arabs. Below are feveral cifterns of water,and fr ntispieces of chapeh, but the paffageto them is cut off.As we were going up, the though's of the danger of defeend-i"g enters into our heads, and the emperor of Germany’sdrugge man or interpreter, for 'hefe country languages beingfearful, got two luika to conduct him down, and fo, havingi8 Travels from Aleppo,ail had a fafe diicent, wc rode chearfully back toElifha’s fonn- -itain, formerly bitter, but he throwing d jwn a handful of fal*fthe waters became fwcet. Here we lay til! four o’clock, and tthe heat of the fun being over, made lor Jericho, and arrived ' 1about five, where there are now only a few poor cottages; wepitched by Zaccheus’s tree. The inhabitants are moft Aara-bians, and fome few Greeks. Here the captain of the villagecame to welcome our Balia and his people, mounted noon a fm ire valued at a thoufand livres, mares being only in efteem iamong them ; Here we repofed under a rotten hedge, till a-bon: four next morning, having a little pieafure in our compa- ! ■*ionj, the gnats and other flinging creatures.V.'e proceeded then for the river Jordan. We obferved be- |fore, that the uppermost fpring of this noted river is in mountLebanon, about n miles north of Cos fa re a Philippi. After ithas run about 13 miles north to the fouth, it receives a confi-derable branch, which under ground proceeds to the lake Phi-ala. About 16 miles farther fouth, it forms the waters ofMerair, or lake of Samechon, which is near four miles broad,and 7 long. After running about 19 miles farther fouth, itforme tiie lake of Genefareth. which is about 13 miles in length,and 3 in breadth. From thence it runs fouthward through along valley, whofe air is unwholfome, and moft of it defart,till it lofes itfelf in the Dead Sea. Its whole courfe is aboutJ6~ miles. It anciently ove.flawed its banks in M-rch or A*pril, by means of the melting of the (now on Lebanon andHermon ; b it as we were told, does not fo now to any degree;the reafon affigntd is, tha’ i 8 channel is now funk very deep.Before it eaters the Dead Sea, its ordinary courfc is not above30 yards in breadth, but is exceeding deep, even at the veryedge of its inner bank, and the dream is ftrong and rapid. Ithas an outer bank about the eighth part of a mile diftancefrom fhe other ; fucb, it feems, was its breadth when it wasfwelled. The banks of a great part of it are fo covered withthickets, that in many places one cannot fee it till at the verybrink of it; and in thofe thickets lions were wont to lodge,but were driven thence by the overflowing of the river, atwhich feafuns they wandered about, and were dangerous tofuch as dwelt near the river. After we had fatisfied our curi-ofi y by fwimming, &c. our guard advifed us to be gone, incafe the Arabs fliould come upon them ; therefore we all madeready, and (et f irward for the Dead Sea. About two hoursafter, in our way to the fca, we palled through a moft curfejbarren pi ice, not having fo much as a green herb, or a pileof grafs, and the face of the earth covered with fait, and tho’dry, yet our horfes funk up to the knees. I am perfuadedthat this is the Valley f Salt, mentioned in » Kings xiv. 7.We cam; no c to !h Dead Sea, being about 50 miles in lengt hand about 13 over. There is not a place from whence the wa-to the City of Jciufalem. 19ter which crnnes irto it runs out agair, txceft it be under theearth ; neither inth it feem to encreafe w ith the river Jordan,and fcveral other waters that do run into it- It was once afruitful valley, and compared for delight to paradtfe, and cal¬led Peotapolia, of her five cities, but afterwards deftrcyedfrom heaven, and turned into this filthy lake, and barren de-folaiion which doth encompafs it. And to try the virtue thatis reported to be in the water, wherein they fay a n an cat.notfir.k, force of our company went into the lake, and found itimpoifible to get their.bodies under wa'er, yea, could hardlykeep their legs under. The waler is fiilpbury. and the ex¬tremity of faltuefs nut to be exprtfied, When they c .m out*there was a perfedt oil upon their bodies. Our eyes bring fa-tisfied with curiofities and rarities, we made hafie back to Je¬rusalem. The ruins of one of the cities that were deftroyedfor Sodomy, now lies a good part out of the water, and if fup-pofed to be Zeboint. Now the fun gets itreng h, and by re-fletftion on the ground, makes the heat fo violent, that ourfaces look'd as if the ilcin were flead off, by riding from morn¬ing till four afternoon; but the fathers being accuftomed tomeet with tender-faced travellers, foon provided fometbing tomitigate our pain, which was much increafed by the faltnefs ofthe water of the Dead Sea. This night we took little pleafurein eating, but more in fleeping, having had but little in thisvoyage.Having now vififed all the places worthy of notice in theHoly Land, which travellers ufually do, we now began tothink of leaving Jerufalem ; but father Tomafo, being ftillwanting to entertain us as far as in his power, (bowed us avery exadt map of the boundaries of ancient Canaan, or theLand of Promife. It wag, according to the higheft calculation,about 180 miles in length, from Dan on the north, to Beerfiie-ba on ihe fouth, and from eaft to weft, about 80 ; and fo com¬prehends in all, much about 9,333,000 acres of ground ; ofwhich, each of the 601,yjo Hebrew warriors who conquered it,might have about is or 13 acres allotted for Lis lhare. It liesin the 31, 33, and 34 degrees of north latitude, and in the36, and 37 of eaft longitude from London.- It has the Me¬diterranean fea on the weft ; Lebanon and Syria on the north ;Arabia the Difart, and the land of the Ammonites, Moabitesand Midianiteson the eaft ; the land of Edom, and wildernefsof Paran on the fouth, and Egypt on the fouth weft. No morethan this was wont to be called Canaan, ard this only wasprumifed-to the Hebrews in p .fibffu n; but David extendedthem much farti er, to Syria, Ammon, Moab and Edom, Sic.1 hough this cou try in general is now almoft uncultivated,and in courle appears very barren, it being now under a curie,and being peftered with the wild and lavage Arabs; yetanciently it was undoubtedly a molt beautiful and fertileso Travels from Aleppo,country, J T-Jah running (buthward through it, and formingfederal ple.if ntan i agr-eabie lakes, and a vaft multitude ofbrooks and rivulets c fling the country n both fi es of theJordan, and a valt muiti'ude of valleys and hill* plrafantly di-rerfified; and when the Almi hty, b’ his feafanablc warmthand rains bltfled the laborious improvers f the foil, it is notin ttie lean incredible how it fupponed the numerous thoufsndsthat o"ce dwelt therein ; but the now irh>bitant3 o* 'his oncetnoft b^fled rountry, aie for th.' molt p irt wild Arabs (aid tobe the dr fee dants of Ilhmael; and if we lhall confider theancient p ed fbons of Scrip ure we will find them literallyfu filled concerning them for upwards of thiee thoufand yearsp'it; for ft was pr ph Tied, th.t the lihtndi es fliouid bewild free men ; fnould have their hand againft every man, andevery tnan^sband ag unit them ; and yet ibould d welMn theprefence of ail th'eu breth en, and multiply into ‘we've t ibi s,and btcrme a great nation ; or, that however they fhould beprrflbd, they fhould never be utterly fubdued. See Gen. xvi.ii, xi. and xvii. ao. ai d xxi. from 10, to 13, &c. Iflimtei hadtwelve fins, father* each of a tribe: they dwelt next to theirrelations, the offspring of Lot, and of Abraham hy Keturah,and f Efau the father of Edom ; they gradually ;n re .fed tillthey fwall w up their neighbours on eithc fide; and num-b rs of them began early to trade with Egypt and Tyre Vaftnumbers of them roved from places with their rattle, dwellingin tents without asy fettled abode, and became very trouble-fome to their neighbours; it became, therefore, the intcreft ofevery conqueror to fubdue them, or root them nut, and theywere very often puflied, and hard put to it, yet to this daynever fubdued. Trojan the Roman Emperor, thought to haveconq lered them, and befieged Petra their capital; but histroops r*at fo terrified with thunder, lightning and hail, andf;v;r ns of flies, &c. that they were repulfed upon every at¬tack. And feveral hundred years after, we find the Arabsfometimei. allied with the Perfians, and other times with theRomans, but in fubjedtion to none of thefe grand empires. Inthe year of our Lord 700. Mahomet, gn Arab, became a greatimpoftor, and his countrymen, under the name of Saracens,to propogate bis religion, fubdued all Arabia, the wefternAlia, and a great part of Africa, Spain, and feveral other placesin Europe, they conftituted an empire of about 7000 miles inlength: And th ugh by diviflons among themfelves, and thegrowing power of the Turks, and the terrible ravages of theTartars, &c. between the year of our Lor*! 9*0 and 1 x6j, theirwide extended empire was greatly reduced ; and in the next300 years after, the Turks and Spaniards reduced aim; ft thereft ; yet the original of the Khmael.tea were never fubdued.And to this day the Tu kilh Sultans pay them an annual tri¬bute of a very coafiderable fum for a fafe paflage to their holyto the City of Jerufalem. 21cUieJ o? Micca and M ilina ; and if payment is neglrdted, theArabs are fure to p ly themfelvee, by fallhfg upon the caravans,or pilgrims; or by ravaging Mefopotamia or Syria, o: whichthere hive happened fereril inlianccs'not long go ; for theyh ive always b.-en famed for their lutt, r bbevy, ravage, re¬venge, and mnrders Such are the inhabitants that now pnf-fefles the aa hi f the auc ent, and once moll famous andren iwned Iciogd >tn of Ifrae!.Father F> nafo. who feerm to be a very judicious man, toldm, thit he had Ijren at m uint Sinai, which (lands on hefoath corner of the bofom of the R'd Sea. about iJo mileseastward of Grand Cairo in Egypt. The defart on thrfouthand weft of it, ia a ore y high ground tor about twelve miles,an ) is diftinguifhed with a variety of leflcr hill«, Fhe moun¬tain is ot no great extent, bu’ very high, and haah two tops,,the weftern of whic-‘ i* ca'le 1 Hoteb ; and the etftern whichb * fuppofe* t ' bt about a thfr higher, ii prooerlr called Sinai.He fays that there are fom- fp ings and f uit trei- on Hi reb,bu •'hit g ou rain wat-r on the top ot Sma' Tue alcent ofboth is ery tteep, and can only be_afcended b ^eps whichthe Emprefs Helena, the mothe. of Cosft^nvine the G ,e;.f,caufed to be cur out i.i the marb'e rock ^t the top of Su ai,he fays, there is an uneven and rugged place, which wouldho.d about lix.y p-rfons- ^ Here ftaudu a chapel, dedicated taSt. Catharine, and near td' it, on the brow of the barren rock,is a fountain of f’-elh water. Tue monks 'hat dwell here, havewith Mb's, &c ma le a fort of a foil f«>» a garden. From .hetop ef thi» mount, God proclaimed bis law to the Hebrews,fr im imidft terrible fla nes o' fire. He told us likewife, thathe vie wed :he rock R. puiddim, which f:e.«s to have been aclift fallen off ?'om the fide of Sinai, and lies like a Urge loofeftbne in the m dll of th.- v. ley. It is of a red garnet colour,the ht'dt.efs of flint, and is nigh about fix yarjj iquare; andthere is rtvtlve o: eninta in it, whence th' water gufhed outfor the 39 years fuppl-,- of me Hebrew., aud the done is-worn^here me water bad run down.■ Hermoo, is a mountain >n the nor’h call of the H dy Land,b- yon Jordan. a 1 .ile fou hward of Lcban m The lew thatfall* ■ju it i beautiful and fine: In * fummer evening it willwei one to th? fkiu an 1 ye: i- in no langer of fl- 'ping atmg t, is w* a.e to 1, ;n the 'pen field The in vv nes mit :i) ft pa. if the u nm r, and w* anciently carried fromth nee to F' re, bar the oe >p'e there might drink 'heir winein Fe.fc., —.'Jilb ra, i he m runtain noted for''he defeat of theHfb -w', a .d tn- flaughtrr of 5iu! and his hree f ns lies a-b t Mjf.y mites nor h o' Jerufalem : an ! ih i".g D'vd in hisel-gy. wilhed’t? w*at?d feriilitv turned into bi e .r s anddr u- b:, yet we are aflured, that dew fall, oa it, a* well aaon other places.22 Travels from Meppo,Jerufalcm lien abon' 45 miles w< ft ward of Jordan, and a-boot 4* eaft of the Mediterr<meaa Sen 90 miles fouth of Da-mafcus. 300 milt! fouth of Alepp , and 430 miles north eaftof Gran t Coo < in Egypt. It (lands on a high rock, with deepal tut* on '.very fide, ex ep' on the north. It is ftiToundedw th a deep talle) , which is ^gain enc mpafled with hilis. Theci y at prefen* i* abr tit three miles in circumference: Thew il1 and fortifications fe m to be very ancient; but the pri¬vate buildings are moftlr very m-an. acd thinly inhabited.The ref rt of pilgrims hither, onlv renders it confiderable |an ' th accommodat ng them w:th lodgings and pr vifions thechief bufinefs • f the inhab'tatus. For the proteifl'on of thepilgrims again ft the Arab:. and tn receiv'1 the tribute exirfledof them, a Baflia always rt-tides here with a guard of Janizaries.As to the particular places in and >b ut Jerufalem, we havealready tiefcribed|nne 13. We being refolved to fet fo'ward in the morning,the father guardian cam' i>n 1 gave us h'S bltlfing, and fprii k-led us's :th holy water d; G mu us to excufe our bad treatment,and that, if any time, we had been dilTtisfied wc ouid pafsit over, hut we knew it was a c mplimen , for we ha 1 theciv.'eft entertainment imaginable, and ver* fa’ from difguftiogus; for they were not only eadr to hp our le vants but ourfiiTer-: yea, our h neft father Tor . :> never ceafed, almoftfrom m roi: g to night, from bringing us either vidluals ordrink, or afkiVg whether we wanted any thing. And nowfor this his fourteen days fcrvice, we were no ways capable torecompe- ce him, for they would take no money but for ourvidluals, and fame otherfmalt fervices,- we therefore pre'.entedto the conve rt thirty livn j a-piecr, and feme that had fervantsmore The father procurator reccivi 'g it, they entered allour name- in a book, and the fums we gave. ‘I he book » herethe names nly were written we bad a view of, and took acopy of all the Engliflmen that were in it, from the year 1601to this day, b-ine 158 in number.N w taking our lra>es. the fathers fliewed great affVftion to'u», weepinc, and expreffing their defires lo enj y our compa¬ny longer; arid our rlefues were as much to be nearer home,to have an account of our friends.June 14. We departed, our n.uletters having provided hor-fe*, inlending to take Emmans in our journev, hut night com¬ing on, we m’de Si. Jerom’8 church our flerpiug place; for-merly fathers lived in it, but the Arabt came upon them inthe night, and cut all their throats The church is well builr,aud bath been adorned with pidlure* on the walls, of whichfume remain to this day. About two hours riding from Jeru-falem wc pafs’d over the brook, out of which they fay, D -vidgatherer1 the peeblc ftonea to fiiv O' liah. ne 15. We ar¬rived at kite convent in Ramah about 10 in the morning, whereto the City of Jrrufalem. 23we tarried till midnight, at which time tterr wa* a Hi p todepart, and fome of us intended to cmo-rk and the :eit ' o*lia boat like a Gravefend barge. Wc put our proviflons of breadand wine aboard, and fo p it to lea, keeping alway* near thefljorc for fear of a ftonn Alter three days fail we arrived atAfrica, fo merly Ptolemais once a famout city of Gvlilee, ontbe cnaft of the Mcdite ranean Sea, ah«nt 5i milea iouth tifTyre. *vto days after we arrived at Tripoli, capital city oftft nirg ‘otr of that name, fituate on the Mediterranean Sea,31 c nvles ,cuth raf* of Tv ,s, ‘urrounded by a wall and forti¬fications. We lodged here again at the conful’s houfe f .r ag eatTnany da's, who treated us tike princes; but the plaguebe ng raging in Aleppo another gentleman and myfelf, tookit in our heads to go and vifn I.orctto, a city of Italy, in thePc, e’s territoritii, 5 miles fouth of Aacona, thre - miles wefto‘ the gulph of Ven ce, and t4y m Its eaft -f Rome Wemet with "othiug uncommon by he wav, hut (hall here giveas particular a defeription of this aagnificent place as I tar-LortUois a fn 11 tor ified tow n- confifting of ore (tree withinthe gate. a-id another with u*. but the r'cheft in the wo'ld.F r, according to Catholic tradition, the chamber rt *he Blef-frd Vi gin (in which ft--was born, <nd was f.d ted by the an¬gel, and brought up her foo jefu“ t:ll he was tw^lv years ofage,) was bromsht by argels in'o D Irr ’t a, on h* rail fide ofthe gulph of Ven'Ce. in the year 19*1, or thereaho t , butthe'people of hu co in'ry not exprefli g a due ve'..-ratioi fisrit, it was th-e or four years afierwards tr nfported overthe gulph in o Jtalv, and at !e git: fixed at l.oretto an atr. igr.ificent church, tne p.efe ,t cathedral, built ov r;t, inthe middle wneitof it now rema in, under ’he cupola. Theyalfo hav- eredhed tour walls ol white Parian m-rMe to fur-ro'. nd the holy chamber, half a foot ^iftant trom it Thechamber is 40 feet lo: g. ao hr ad, and 20 in hei h , withoutany roof or covering. In it is au i - age of the b efled V;rg n.with a little Jc u» in her a m-. and a trip!' erow'i on herbead; hrj^whoie perlon almoft covere ' with dia.’ond' andpearls, and rou'd the ftatne is a kind of ’•ainb >w of p ecion*fiones, of various colours, the ■ rnaments, altars, end u'en-fil in tliis place, being ’nexpr.-.'fiioly rich. Tie gallery, inwhich the treafu es are-lodged, is filled with gold, jewels*and vefftis and orn ments more preeiou'' than gold, 'fie v 'ived-nations if emne ors, kings, popes, and prince , & f'fm=r.y bundled years pal. Silver work are not thought wor¬thy o he •dmirt<rd here To this holy houfe, fome years thereh^.ve re.orted five hundred tho"fand pilgrims, between h.afterand Whitfuntide, and during the two dsys in Sep ember whenthev ce ebrate the feaft of the Virgii’’" nativi'y. no left ih mtwo hundrrd tboufand have been here, and cone of rhofecome empty handed, bwt contribute fomethit.g to encreafe tae24 Travels from Aleppo, See.treafure. Pope Sixtu« V' firft ma^e Loretto a city ani? a bi-fhoprick, and it is efteemsd the moft facred place under hea¬ven, by all good Catholics.Hiving now fatisfied our curiofity at Loretto, we returned.for Alcp)io. When we arrived again at Scanderoon, theplague v-As abated, but we fomul a great many of onr friendawere dead, we fron fet out for Aleppo, I flvdl give a de-fciiption of that ci y. and fo here put an end *o my journey.ACpno, lies in ead longitude 37 —40. north latitude 36—30.It is the capitd of ihegovernment or Belgerbelle of Aleppo,in Afi.it c Turkey, fituated 9* miles ead of the Levant Sea,an i port of Scanderoon, and about 300 miles weft af the li¬ver Fluphrates. ft ftinda upon four bills, in the middle of apleafant fruitful plain, being of in val figure, and about 3miles m circumferance. toe ciftle being on the high- ft hill inmiddle of the city. The buildings of the town are bet'erthan is moft ci ies in Tinker, and they have a great manyRarely mofques If is well fornifhed with fountains a id re-f'lvoirv of water, and then trardens *nd vineyards well p antedwith grapes, oranges, apples, cherries, and other excellentfruits The Gh iftiars have their houfes and charche* in thef. bu bs There is a very c nfiderable trade here for fits,camblets, and Turkey leather. Every F.urop an nation al-m ft has its factors here : The Engbfh factors <re about fortyin number, and live in a qiariraTgle. rcl-mb’ng a college,having 'heir chaplain and chapel, wherein they p-rform theird'votions regularly a» io C .riftendom; and at leifure hoursthey hunt, »n ' ufe other fp.ifts, with all i:*ag nable freedom.About twelve miles eaft of A'eppn. is a £a't hke, feven oreight miles over, having a d y cutft ot fab on the furface, whichfounds like ft zen fnow wh-n ho^frs trample on it j and ma¬gazines of this fait is laid up in the neighbourhood of A>ppo.The Betlerb-g of A!*ppo, commands all the country be'wevnthe Levant Sea and the Euphrates; but the cattle has a go*vernnr independtn of him.After our travels though thit extenfive country, we tookflTpping, and srnvid fate to Old England, to the great jov ofour titends and the great pirafure we had of coming to ourna*ive countryThis Hiftcv-y of our reootds we hope, wil' be both en*ertiming and r eeiblr. as they are founded on fails, agreeable* to the dioly Scriptures.FINIS,