MEMOIR OFTHE REVERENDDAVID WILSON,The late Pious and Learned Minister of theUNITED ASSOCIATE CONGREGATION OFOLD CUMNOCK.ALSO,AN ACCOUNT OF HIS FUNERAL,ANDAn Elegy to his Memory.A SELECTION OF HIS FAVOURITE SONNETS,From the Rev. Ralph Erskir.a’s Works.«KILMARNOCK :?~litra If H. Crawford BwltChr,1S23MEMOIR OFTHE REV. DAVID WILSON.THE Rev. DAVID WILSON, Ministerof the United Associate Congrega¬tion of Old Cumnock, died at Cumnock,on the 17th of December, 1822, in the,‘35th year of his ministry, and 69th of hisage. His death is generally and deeply la¬mented, and he will long be rememberedfor the diligence, activity, and zeal withwhich he discharged the public and privateduties of the ministerial office. He wasvery generally known as a most laboriousand faithful minister of the gospel; and itwas evident, that the uncommon exertionswhich he continually made for the spirit¬ual and temporal welfare of his congrega¬tion, sprung from love to the work itself,-—from compassion to perishing sinnei s,and from a desire to promote the edifica¬tion and comfort of those who believed.He early felt and displayed the power ofreligion. When very young, he tookgreat delight in reading and committingto memory Ralph Erskine’s Gospel 6on-3nets, (a book which he generally carriedabout with him till he had worn it to piec¬es in his pocket.) and many of the verseswitastrative of Christian experience, and ofIpie blessed fruits of communion with God,was afterwards accustomed to repeat,nn his exhortations at the communion-table,with great effect. A fact which latelycame to our knowledge we may mention,as a striking illustration of his early piety.He and another young man, an intimatecompanion of his own, built a turf housein the fields, in which they often met forreligious conversation and prayer, and of¬ten spent w'hole nights in these pious ondimproving exercises. Under the disorderwhich terminated in his dissolution, helooked back on these exercises with greatpleasure; and sometimes said, that if hehad been then called to put off his earthlytabernacle, he thought that he would havedied in the full assurance of faith and hope.Thus feeling the power of divine love, and.expuiencing the joy, the peace, and thehope which spring from faith in Christ, hefelt a strong and growing desire to engagein the work of the ministry; and actermuch meditation and prayer, entered onthat course of learning and study, which4Ss preparatory to preaching and defendingthe gospel of Christ; and persevered, till^under the smiles of Divine Providence, he»reached the object of his devout widagMThat his desire to engage in the ministMwas a matter of deep and serious conceijito him, is manifest from a letter whidilately came into our hands ; and which, itappears, he had written to the friend abovementioned, during the first year of his re¬sidence a? College. We make the follow¬ing extract, as also illustrative of his Chris¬tian attainments at that period.“ Indeed, my brother, the more that Ienjoy of my God, the less do I think ofmy books, for the latter, compared withthe former, are tasteless add insipid; butyet rny soul feels pleasure and delight inthese words, “ Go feed the church of God,,which he hath put chased with his ownblood and when my thoughts recur tothem, I feel animated to proceed in theprosecutismof my studies. O my soul!mayest tlmfrvnever forget the day whenthy God spoke these words unto thee,when in his own divine manner he de¬livered unto thee the solemn charge, com¬manding thee to go forth in his name, andproclaim this wonder in the ears of all the*5people, saying,—Behold sfrhat a pric?thy God hath bought thee, O ye saved ofthe Lord ! even at a price of which neitherman nor angel can estimate the value! Omy soul! a goodly price it was indeed thatwas paid down for thy recovery, even theblood of the eternal Son of God in mynature. Mayest thou ever be engaged inspeaking to his honour and praise; iaayestthou ever adore him ; mayest thou evermagnify and extol him ! And may God,even my God, assign to me whatever hepleases for the exercise of rny short life,and may the glory be to him for ever.”Having finished his course of literaryand theological study at the College ofEdinburgh; and at the Divinity Hall, un¬der the Rev. Mr. Brown and Dr. Lawson,he was licensed to preach the gospel by thei Associate Presbytery of Edinburgh. After: exercising his gifts for a short time in thei vacancies, under the inspection of the As¬sociate Synod, he received an unanimousCall from the Associate Congregation ofOld Cumnock, [vacant in consequence ofI the translation oMjie Rev. Mr. {now Dr.); Hall to Edinburgh^ to the pastoral in*-I spection of which, after going through the1 usual course of tiiais, he was solemnly or-6tlaincd by t!;e Associate Presbytery ofGlasgow,^ in the year 178S. The interestsof this congregation he continued till hisdeath to promote, with a degree of acti¬vity, success, and approbation seldom eq¬ualled, and still more rarely surpassed.As a man, Mr. Wilson, though natur¬ally a little quick and warm in his temper*was exceedingly kind, generous and friend¬ly; and proved an attentive and affection¬ate husband, a kind friend, and a usefulmember of society. As a Christian, hissentiments were purely evangelical andpractical. He was a true Presbyterian andthorough-paced Seceder, warmly attachedto the principles upon which the Secessionwas originally founded, and which theUnited Chureh still maintains. In everything which respected the Christian pro¬fession and eternity, he loved and strong¬ly recommended decision and steadiness.Being thus minded, he pointedly con¬demned men “ halting between two opin¬ions suffering thsmselves like children tobe tossed to and fro by every wind of doc¬trine,” and unduly yielding to mere hu¬man attachments and local circumstancesin the profession of the gospel, and in seek¬ing glory, and honour, and immortality.7I But whUe he was a steady" arvd decidet.\: Seceder, he breathed in private and in: public a benevolent and catholic spirit, *j took great delight in Bible and Missionaryi Societies,—rejoiced in the success ot thej gospel, by whomsoever it was preached,: and fervently prayed with the Apostle,1 « Grace be with all those who love our1 Lord Jesus in sincerity.” In short, he was; a steady and warm member of a party, butdetested every thing like a narrow andparty-spirit.As a minister of the gospel, the divineand mediatoi ial glory of Christ, the won¬ders of his love, and the riches of his gracein saving sinners, and in bringing them toglory, according to the gracious purpose ofthe Father, and by the agency of the HolySpirit, formed the great and leading sub¬ject of his preaching, and gave peculiarrichness and suitableness to his ministra¬tions. His sermons were plain and scrip¬tural; his style and manner of vlelivery,though by no means polished, were warm,animated, and full of natural eloquence,and never failed to interest the heart, andto increase the flame of Christian and de¬votional feeling. In dispensing the wordot life, he took gi eat pleasure in illustrat-sing the excellence and blessed effects ofthe ordinances of religion, in urging thefaithful cultivation of the various gracesof the Spirit, and in enforcing the numer*ous duties of the Christian life.In thus setting before his own people,and other congregations ci? the Associationwhere he occasionally laboured, the wholecounsel of God, he commanded generalattention, and under the agency of theHoly Spit it, we have reason to believe,was the honoured instrument of savingand comforting many. He evidently wish¬ed to spend and be spent for the advance¬ment of the glory of Christ, the salvationof sinners, and jfhe spiritual and temporalprosperity congregation.fie ^y^^^Prcularly attentive and dili¬gent in visiting and examining the peopleot his charge. His congregation was avery large one, and though it lay scatteredover an extensive country-side, he regu¬larly visited and examined the whole of itevery year. As this part of his duty wasparticularly suited to Ir's active dispositionand habits, so in the discharge of it hetook great delight, and fixed upon a veryhigh standard for the execution of it. Inproof of this, in July after the d&pease which casrisd him off had taken iirmhold of hi", comtitution, he visited no lessthan tweiity-nine families in one day, someof which were &ifuated at the distance often miles from his own house. In visitingthe sick be was equally attentive and dili¬gent. In the discharge of this duty, itmay with truth be said of him, that hewas “ instant in season and out of season.”No species of disease he reckoned as a bar¬rier, no distance disagreeable, no hour un¬seasonable, when he was called on by afflic¬tion to administer the consolations of thegospel. As in tffis impor*?^; duty hegreatly excelled, so he was veryentlycalled on to discharge -it, net ton); amonghis own people, ^but aim among jof the community. To the spitstruction-of fhejyoung he^also paidlar attention. Fftr tlrosl* of the?fourteen i^rs of . age he had a cla*jS^eraVhrtJpti a^ursc of iristructkpari!m‘^fibr»admis3iQga into his Sabbathevening school, which met regularly dur¬ing the summer months, and which con¬sisted chiefly of young persons betweenthe ages of fourteen and twenty-four.—As he was unremitting in his attention totheir spiritual welfare, so to him and hi:10instruction! they paid a corresponding af¬fectionate regard. This was so much thecase, that they gradually increased in num¬ber ; and during the last summer, thoughlie was undci the necessity, trom the lowstare of his he'alth, of having recourse toassistance, he was more numerously attend¬ed than over he had previously been. Hisparting interview with them was very ten¬der and affecting. Before they were dis¬missed, he addressed them in a short ex¬hortation with uncommon fervour andfeeling. He seemed to have impressedupon Ins mind a lively presentiment of hisapproaching dissolution, fie spoke of itas a matter of certainty, and urged them,as one who evidently regarded himself inthe immediate neighbourhood of the eter¬nal world, and who had their dearest in¬terests at heart, to “ remember their Crea¬tor in the days of their youth.” He hopedthat, though the present was in ail proba¬bility the last interview he was to enjoywith them, they would still be as activernd diligent in their spiritual improve-tnent, as if he still presided over them, andguided them in the acquisition of usefulknowledge. His youthful audience wasdeeply moved, and it was tru!y affectingto witness the sorrow they manifested injtakina* their last farewell of their a^ed in-tstructor: while he, as he shook them byIthe ha-d, £ave to each his parting blessing.From this interesting period his healthrapidly declined, and his bodily and men¬tal vigour so quickly forsook him, that' he afterwards attempted only once or twice:to address his people from the pulpit; andI for about a month before his death, hei was almost entirely confined to his ownI house, exhibiting day after day, evidenti marks of approaching dissolution. Such1 was the aetivity to which he was habitu¬ated, and such his delight in the publicand private duties of his office, that whenthe hopes of resuming them became faint¬er, he felt rather uneasy. An impressionalso, which certainly he had less reasonthan rranv others to indulge, that he haddone little for Christ, and for promotingthe best interests of his beloved people,accompanied with severe bodily pain, inno small degree agitated his mind, and unfitted him for conversation. But as theinteresting crises approached, his mind be¬came more tranquil, and seemed to loseits strong attachment to the activities oflife; and on the morning of the last day12his valuable life, a brother in the minis¬try hav'in^ visited him, and engaged in.those conversations and exercises suitableto a dying hour, he manifested great re-renity of mind, and at last expired in themost gentle and agreeable manner.From this short memoir, it is abundant--V rnanif'-ot, that the Church has lost aJrsjst diligent, zealous, and successful min¬ister ; which loss, while it must interestall the lovers of Zion, must press in a par¬ticular manner on the affections and feel¬ings of the bereaved widow and congrega¬tion. Let all in the ministry be admon¬ished by his death, diligently to dischargethe duties of their office, and labour topromote the prosperity of the Church,that they may put off their earthly taber¬nacle with joy, and be greeted with theseexhilarating words,ii Well done, good andfaithful servant, enter ye into the joy ofyour Lord.” Let those who are lookingforward to the ministry, and who are in•smne measure prepared t* fill up the va-euncits that death is now and then mak¬ing in the Church, emulate the virtues ofihcir departed fathers, and even prepareto excel them in activity and usefulness.And let the congregation cordially acqui-i # > ; m-'esce in their bereavement* and love oneanother v.-ith a brotherly in hpnr^T.preferring one another, andlook to Christ,the Head of the Church, (fort he wouldgive them a pastor according tn his owpliheart, who may feed them with undcr-|l standing and knowledge..• * ? % :The Rev, Mr. WILSO&C* fiineral was-attended by a very large concourse of peo¬ple, from the village, and the neighbour¬ing country. Never was witnessed a moresolemn spectacle. Every one' seemed soi affected with their mournful task, that it! looked as if they were conveying to thej grave one upon w hom all their hopes inI life depended. In testimony of their es-I teem, a public subscription was entered[ into, and a small Monument, executedwith considerable taste, and having an ap¬propriate Epitaph, and an inscription cutupon it, was erected to his memory.—“ Blessed are they who die in the Lord^pthey rest from their labours, and theirUworks do follow them.”* ELE GYOn the Death' oF.tfie Rev. David Wilson,Old Cumnock.What shriek is this amon* the villagecro^d.Solemn the sound ! ’tis sorrow’s deepesttone!From street to street the cry is rais’d aloud,Alas!, ala# 1 our well-lov’d Wilson’s gone!Now thro’ O^d Cumnock spreads a death¬like gloom,Quick to the spot the mourning groupsrepair,Where Christian-like he methis final doom.And soar’d to glory in a higher sphere.In this broad world no mortal e’er requir’dLess preparation for a world unknown ;For hope of Heaven had long his bosomfir’d,And long he claim’d this region as hisown.larewel!! thou sweetest Herald of the cross!t.were Salvation’s accents on thy•tongue,15Religion’s votaries shall bewail thy lossWhile prayers arise, or Zion’s songs aresung..'(For thou wert ever still the poor man’sfriend.And at his pillow', when with sicknessworn,rWith Christ’s most holy precepts would’stattend,From midnight hour until the dawningmorn.O! Cumnock’s daughters, while ye mournyour Seer,Let not your hearts with hopeless griefbe torn;Lift up your eyes, and wipe away the tear.Soon breaks the dawn of everlastingmorn.Then shall you hear your Pastor’s voiceagain,Jesus receive me! and the flock thou gave!O let us grace the glories of thy reign.Thy love is all-omnipotent to save. K «Fancy be hush’d—the theme is to'o ^ublilkeFor erring mortals in this vale of tears,16The splendid scenes beyond the verge oftimeRemain unknown till Christ himself ap.pears.But as yon sun in splendour far outviesIhe darkest orb in Heaven's exaltedsphere, *>So high in glory shall the Pastor rise,Who has been faithful to the death whilehere.1 hen sainted Priest of eloquence and worth,■t.njoy on high thy sceptre and thycrown,Weil hast thou earn’d them whilst thouwast on earth.Immortal is thy name and thy renown.O! Calvin’s sons, well may you weep his *loss,’I was he your doctrine nobly could de»| fend;All human merit he decried as dross,sovereign grace he taught the heart3 to bend.death and blood were all his*plea.17For love and mercy at the heavenlythrone;iTo these, and these alone, let sinners flee,Oft would he call with sweet persuasivetone.To what exalted fervour would he rise,When pour’d his raptures of redeeminglove ;Who could his warning solemn voice des¬pise,When sinners’ marble hearts he tried tomove.Alike his doctrines, and his virtues pure.He liv’d rever’d in this licentious age;His merits shall for evermore endure,Recorded in the biographic page.His merits tell somewarm ingenuous friend.To whom his worth and talents still arcdear;And genius oft-times o’er his tomb shallbend,And give the tribute of a bitter tear.%*418Mr. WILSON’s fondness for the Gos¬pel Sonnets ot Ralph Erskine, is wellknown; and we cannot better concludeour brief notice of this ‘excellent man, thanby selecting a few of which he shewed apeculiar predelicdon.The Believer's perfect beauty, free acceptance,and full scan ity, through the imputation ofChrist's perfect righteousness, though ini’-farted grace be imperfect.O Happy soul, Jehovah’s bride,The Lamb's beloved spouse;Strong consolation’s flowing tide,Thy Husband thee allows.In thee, though like thy father’s race,By nature black as hell.Yet now, so beaudfy’d by grace,Thy Husband loves to dwell.Fair as -he moon thy robes appear,While graces are in dress.Clear as the sun, while found to wearThy Husband’s righteousness.19 'Thy moon-like graces, changing much.Have here and there a spot;Thy sun-like glory is not such.Thy Husband changes not.Thy white and ruddy vesture fairOutvies the rosy leaf:For ’mcng ten thousand beauties rareThy Husband is the chief.Cloth’d with the Sun, thy robes of light.The morning rays outshine ;The lamps of heav’n are not so bright,Thy Husband decks thee fine.Though hellish smoke thy duties stain,And sin deform thee quite;Thy Surety’s merit makes thee clean,Ihy Husband’s beauty white.Thy pray’rs and tears, nor pure nor good.But vile and loathsome seem :Yet gain, by dipping in his blood,I’hy Husband’s high esteem.No fear thou starve, though wants be great.In him thou art complete :Ihy hungry soul may hopeful wait, *1 hy Husband gives thee meat.1I2&*Thy money/merit, pow’r and pelf.Were squander’d by thy fall jTet, having nothing in thyself.Thy Husband is thy all.Law-precepts, threats, may both besetTo crave of thee their due :But justice for thy double debtThy Husband did pursue.Though justice stern as much belongAs mercy to a God ;Yet justice suffer’d here no wrong,rJ hy Husband’s back was broa<LHe bore the load of wrath alone.That mercy might take vent;Heaven’s pointed arrows all uponThy Husband’s heart were spent.No partial pay could justice still.No farthing was retrench’d jVengear.ee exacted all, untilThy Husband all advanc’d.He paid, in liquid golden red.Each mitetfhe hw requir’d,Till wit h a pSud ’ fis finished^Thy Husband’s breath expir’d.Of highest crnnes and flaws;But on thy head no curse can light,—rThy Husband is the cause.The mystery of the Saints1 adversaries andadversities. • .A Lump of woe affliction is.Yet thence I borrow lumps of bliss:Though few can see a blessing in’t.It is my furnace and my mint.Its sharpness does rny lusts dispatch;Its suddenness alarms my watch.Its bitterness refines my ta.?te,And weans me from the creature’s bver«5f.22htiness does'jtry ray^Uack,and.pafcie'nceung wind Avhlaff’d of vanij^to refinA wing to liftHence still the more I sob trrstresThe more I shtg fhy endfbss rest.'.. :lr:- ■Mihe enemles that Seek my mm,Of all .their bad designs come short;They serve me fully to ray mind.With favours which they ne’er desig'n’d.The fury of my foes makes meFast to my peaceful refuge flee:And ev’ry persecuting elfDoes make me understand myself.Their slanders cannot work my sbame,Their vile reproaches raise my name;In peace with Heav’n my scul can dwell,Ev’n when they damn me down to hell.Their fury can’t the treaty harm,Their passion does my pity warm;Their madness only calms my blood ;By doing hurt they do my good.23jrhey are my sordid slaves I wot;My drudges, though they know itThey act to me a kindly part.With little kindness in their heart.They sweep my outer-house when foul,Yea,*wash my inner filth of soul:They help to purge away my Wot,1-or M oab is my washing pot.SECESSIONHitherto the character of the Secession, bothas to the intelligence and faithfulness of itsministers, and as to the piety of its members,has been very fair : and we would fondly hope,that the sons, who are rising up to occupy theplaces which their sires are leaving vacant, in¬stead of tarnishing her reputation, will ratherraise it to a higher pitch. Let not the presentgeneration disgrace the memory of their piousancestors —1 he world and the church look tothem with an expecting eye. Each individualamongst than, both ministers and people, should■s24feel and should act, both in public and in pr'ulife, as if the character cf tlx whole de¬ed on his conduct. Let ministers exert^selves more and more, to promote true god¬liness in their respective flocks. Let heads offamilies attend to the cultivation of religion intheir domestic circles. Let the young •die withone another, who hall be mrst distinguishedfor amiab eness of disposition, and Jar^pittoyzeal and activity in promoting the'cause of theRedeemer. Let all classes cultivate a spirit ofearnest and importunate prayer ; and thusj haltthe blessing come down from the God of •glory,“ like the dew of Herman, that descended uponthe mountains of Zion."“ For my brethren and companions* sake, /will now say. Peace be within ihee; becauseof the bouse of the Lord our God, I will seekthy good.F r N I S.