AN ACCOUNT OF THESURPRISINGSavage twirl,Who was caught runuirkg wild in the Woods wfChampagne, a Province jn France.» . * t-4 * J , t \t- %,T. •! »,/• • cv-» TV* tCONTAININGA true Narrative of many curious and inter¬esting particulars, respecting this verywonderful child of Nature.y OGti *1315 *jJ3i *I3fI fl'J : • /iJO/i J .1TRANSLATED FROM TtJE FRENCH.^ OF SCOTLAND rTHE SURPRISINGSAVAGE GIRL.IL. W *TT3t' I. » ^ONE evening, in the month of Septem¬ber last, a Girl, nine or ten years old,being pressed, as it would seem, by thirst,entered about the twilight into Songi, avillage four or five leagues south of Cha¬lons in Champagne, a province of France.She had nothing on her feet, her bodywas covered with rags of skins, her hairwith a gourd leaf, and her face and handswere as black as a Negro’s. She was arm¬ed with a short batcn, thicker at one endthan the other, very like a club. Thosewho first observed her, took to theirheels, crying out, There is the devil.—And, indeed, her dress and colour mightwell suggest this idea to the country peo¬ple ; and happiest were they who couldsoonest secure their doors and windows.But one of them thinking that the devilwas afraid of dogs, set loose upon her abull dog with an iron collar. The littlesavage seeing him advance in a fury, kepther ground vathout flinching, and grasp-ing her little club with both her hands,stretched herself to pue side, in order to3■i*give greater scope to her blow; perceiv¬ing the dog within her reach, she dis¬charged such a terrible blow on his headas laid him dead at her feet. Elated withher victory, she jumped several times overthe dead carcase of the dog. Then shetried to open a door, which not being ableto effect, she ran back into the country,towards a river, and mounting a tree, fellfast asleep.A French nobleman happened to bethen at his country-house of Songi, wherehaving heard vtrious accounts of the lit¬tle Savage thit had appeared on bisgrounds, he gave orders to catch her ; andparticularly to the shepherd, who had dis¬covered her first in a vineyard.One of the country people, by a verysimple thought, but which was attributedto his great knowledge of the mannersand customs of Savages, conjectured thatshe was thirsty, and therefore he placed apitcherful of water at the foot of the treein which she was sitting. She, after look¬ing sharply around, to see whether anybody observed her, came down, and wentto drink at the pitcher, plunging her chininto the water; but something havingstartled her, she regained the top of thetree before they had time to apprehend4lier. This first stratagem having failed,the same person again advised to place awoman and some children near the tree,because savages commonly are not so shyof them as of men : and he bade them,above all, show her a friendly air, and asmiling countenance. His directions werecomplied with; a woman, with a child inher arms, came walking near the tree, car¬rying difi’erent sorts of roots and two fish¬es in her hands, which she held out to thesavage, who descended a branch or twoto be at them, but went back again. Thewoman still continued her invitation withan affable and pleasant countenance, ac¬companied with all the possible signs offriendship, such as laying her hand uponher breast, as if to assure her that she lov¬ed her, and would do her no harm. Thesavage uas at last emboldened to comedown the tree, and receive the roots'andiishes; but the woman then enticing herfrom the tree, by retiring insensibly, gavetime to the uien who were lying in 'waitfor her, to advance arid seize her. Shenever mentioned any thing of the griefand anxiety she felt on being taken, norof the efforts she made to escape j but wemay easily imagine both. The shepherd,and* the rest who had caught and brought5her to the castle, carried her first into thekitchen, till M. d’Epinoy should be in¬formed of her arrival. The first thingthere that appeared to draw her attention,was some fowls which the cook was dres¬sing ; at these she flew with such amaz¬ing agility, that the astonished cook be¬held one in her teeth before he imaginedshe had reached it. M. d’Epinoy arrivingin the mean time, .and seeing what shewas eating, caused give hep an unskinnedrabbit; she instantly stripped off the skin,and devoured it.Those who considered her then, wereof opinion that she was about nine yearsof age. She seemed black, as I have al¬ready said ; but it appeared, after wash¬ing her several times, that she was natur¬ally white, as she still continues. 'Theyobserved likewise, that her fingers, and inparticular, her thumbs were very large,in proportion to the rest of her hand,which was otherwise neat enough : andto this day her thumbs retain somewhatof that largeness. By her account, theselarge strong thumbs were very useful toher during her wild life in the woods jfor when she had a mind to pass fromone tree to another, if the branches of thetwo trees were but at a small distance,6snd though of no greater thickness thanher finger, she would place her thumbson a branch of the tree in which she hap¬pened to be, and by their means springto the other, just like a squirrel. Fromthis we may judge of the strength of thosethumbs of hers, which were able in thismanner to sustain the whole weight ofher body in springing. She was commit¬ted to the care of the shepherd, who dweltdear the castle, and recommended by M.d’Epinoy to his utmost care, who promis¬ed to reward him handsomely for hispains. We may well conceive, that itwould require a considerable deal of timeand some hard usage, to wean her fromher former habits, and to temper her fierceand savage disposition ; and there is rea¬son to believe she was very closely con¬fined in this house, for she found meansto make holes in the walls, and in the tilesof the roof, upon which she would runwith as much unconcern as upon theground, never suffering herself to be re¬taken without a great deal of trouble, andpassing so artfully through small holes,that they could scarcely believe their eyes,after they had seen her do it. It was thusthat she escaped once, among several othertimes, out of this house, in a most severe7storm of frost and snow ; on which oc¬casion, after making good her escape, shebetook herself to a tree for shelter. Theconfusion which the family was throwninto was great, who, after searching thehouse to no purpose, resolved at last tolook for her without, where they foundher perched on the top of a high tree ;from whence, however, they were luckyenough to prevail on her to come down.I myself have been an eye-witness tosome instances of her ease and swiftness,than which nothing could be more sur¬prising ; and yet what I saw, was but theremains of her former agility, which longsickness, and the want of practice formany years, had greatly impaired. With¬out having seen it, it is hardly possible toimagine her singular and agile manner ofrunning ; even for several y ears after shewas caught, she could overtake the gamein the chace.Mademoiselle le Blanc, the name bywhich she is now called, remembers per¬fectly well her having passed a river twoor three days before she was taken; andwe shall see by and by, that this is one ofthe most certain facts of her history. Shewas then accompanied by another blackgirl, who was a little older than herself:8but whether that was her natural colour,Ot whether she was only painted, like leBlare, is uilcertairi.—They were swim-tn'ing across a river, and diving to catchfishes, when they were observed by & gen-tlSrhan of that rielghbdtifhood, who,- see-Irtg nothing but their heads, now andthen, appearing above the water, mistookthem, as he says himself, for two water-cockS, and firfcd at then!, from a good dis¬tance.—Luckily, however, he missed them,but the report made them dive and retirefilrther off.The little le Blanc, on her part, had afish in each hand, and an eel in her teeth.After having gutted ami washed them,they ate^ or rather devoured them.—"When their repast was finished, they di¬rected their course into the country, hav¬ing left the river at their back. Soon af¬ter, le Blanc perceived a chaplet on theground, which, no doubt, had been droptby some person. Being apprehensive lesther companion should deprive her of thislittle treasure, she stretched out her handto take it up, upon which the other, withher baton, struck her so severe a strokeOn the hand, that she lost the use of it forsome time. She had, however, so muchstrength left, as with the weapon in her9fhand, to return the blow on the foreheadof her antagonist, with such a force as toknocii her to the ground screaming fright¬fully, The chaplet was the reward of hervictory, of which she made herself a brace¬let. Touched, in the mean time, withcompassion for her companion, whosewound bled very much, she ran in scare?}of frogs, and finding one, stripped off itsskin with her nails, and covered thewound. After this they separated, shethat was wounded taking the road to¬wards the river, and the victorious le Blanctowards Songi,There is much uncertainty as to whathappened to these two. children, previousto their arriving in Champagne, le Blanc’smemory, on that head, being very indis¬tinct and confused. I shall relate, how¬ever, every particular I have been able tolearn from her, from which I shall endeav¬our to form some probable conjecturesabout her native country, and the adven¬tures that may have brought her intoChampagne. But to return to her history.The squeaking cries she uttered throughher throat were very frightful. The mostterrible of all were uttered by her on theapproach of any unknown person, withan intention to take hold of her, at which10she discovered a horror that appeared al¬together extraordinary. Of this she oncegave a strong instance. A man who hadheard of her abhorrence of being touched,resolved nevertheless to embrace her, inspite of the danger that he ran in goingtoo near her. She had in her hand at thetime, a piece of raw beef, which she wasdevouring with great satisfaction. Theinstant she saw the man near her, in theattitude of taking hold of her arm, shegave him such a violent stroke on the face,both with her hand and the piece of fleshshe held in it, that he was so stunned andblinded, as to be scarcely able to keep hbfeet: the savage, at the same time, believ¬ing the strangers around to be so manyenemies, who intended to murder her, ordreading, perhaps, punishment for whatshe had done, sprung our of their handstowards a window, through which shehad a view of trees and a river, intendingto jump from it, and so make her escape ywhich she would certainly have done, ifthey had not again caught hold of her.She appeared particularly fond of fish,either from her natural tas;c, or from heracquiring by constant practice, from herchildhood, the faculty of catching them inthe water with more ease than she could11the wild {»ame by speed of foot. She rc; *tained this inclination for catching fish inthe water two years after her capture.—1One day happening to be brought to thecastle of Songi, she no sooner perceived adoor open, which led to a large pond, thanshe immediately ran and threw herself in¬to it,drest as she was, swam round all thesides of it, and landing on a small island,went in search of frogs, which she ate atleisure. This circumstance puts me inmind of a comical adventure which M. leBlanc told me herself.When any company visited M. d’Ep'noyat Songi, he used to send for the girl, whosoon became more tame, and began todiscover much good humour, and a soft¬ness and humanity of disposition, whichthe savage life she had been obliged to fol¬low for self-preservation, had not been ableto efface. One day, as she was present ata great entertainment in the castle, observ¬ing none of the delicacies she esteemed,every thing being cooked, she ran out likelightning, and traversing all the ditchesand ponds, returned with her apron fullof frogs, which she spread very liberallyon the plates of all the guests, and wasquite overjoyed at having found such goodcheer. We may easily figure to ourselves12-the confusion and bustle this occasionedamong the guests, every one endeavouringto avoid or throw away the frogs, thatwere hopping all about. The little savagequite surprised at the small value theyseemed to set on her delicate fare, careful¬ly gathered them up, and threw them backagain on the plates and table. The samething has happened several times in differ¬ent companies.It was with the utmost difficulty thatthey put her off eating raw flesh, and bydegrees reconciled her to cooked victuals.The first trials she made to accustom her¬self to victuals drest with salt, and to drinkwine, cost her her teeth; which, togetherwith her nails, were preserved as-a curios¬ity. She recovered, indeed, a new set ofteeth, just like ours, but hurt her health,which continues to be extremely delicate.There was but little probability of preserv¬ing her alive, her best state of health beinga sickly langour, which seemed to be car¬rying her to the grave. A physician wassent for to see her, who being at a losswhat to prescribe, hinted that it was ne¬cessary to indulge her now and then witha bit of raw flesh. Accordingly they gaveher some, but she could by that time, onlychew it, and suck the blood out of it,13'\yluch relieved her. It was with grc*t{rouble that she began to recover, and ac¬custom herself to cooked victuals. Shewas then placed in a Convent at Chalons,where she began to improve, and be pret¬ty expert in several female works, and hereducation. She had lived some years inthat Convent, and had applied for permis¬sion to assume the veil; but conceiving adisgust at the house, and being ashamedto live with people who had seen her inher wild state immediately after she was-caught, and when uncivilized, she obtain¬ed leave to remove to a Convent at SaintMcnehold. She did ROt remain long here*the Duke of Orleans taking her under hisprotection, brought her to Paris, placed!her in the Convent of the Novelles Catho-Ijques, in the Street of St. Anne, and wentthither himself to see and converse withher, that he might know what progress*she had made in her education. Beingafterwards removed to another Convent,still under the protection of that Prince,she fell from a window', and receiving aviolent stroke on the head, occasioned *long disorder which attacked her. Herlife was despaired of, but by the kind as-distance of her noble patron, she was con¬siderably relieved. It is impossible to ex-14press the melancholy reflections of this un¬happy girl, on being, by the death of theprince, left, weak and languishing, with¬out either relation or friend to take careof her among these strangers; at the sametime, in case of her recovering, she fore¬saw what neglect, and how many mortifi¬cations she must undergo, from personswho had no prospect of being repaid theiradvances on her account.It was in these disagreeable circumstan¬ces that I saw her, the first time, in Nov¬ember, 1752. They hardly were mended,when le Blanc had recovered as muchstrength as to be able to come herself totell me, that the Duke of Orleans, the in¬heritor of his father’s virtues, had under¬taken to pay the nine months board thathad fallen due for her since his father’sdeath; and that she had, besides, somereason to hope to be put on that Prince’slist, for a yearly pension of two hundredlivres for life; adding, at the same time,that until this last point should be settled,which could not happen till the month ofJanuary following, she had accepted of asmall apartment, which a friend had of¬fered her. But how, says I, do you pro¬pose to subsist in this apartment for twomonths, and perhaps more, in your sickly15condition ? For what purpose (answeredshe, with a. firmness and confidence thatsurprised me,) hath God brought me fromamong wild beasts, and made me a Chris¬tian? Not surely afterwards to abandonand suffer me to perish for hunger, that isimpossible; I know' no other father buthim, his providence will therefore supportme. This ingenious reply, compensatesfor the pains 1 have taken to compose thisrelation, which I shall conclude with someof her own observations with regard tothe first part of her life.She has no remembrance of her parents,or any other person, and scarcely thecountry itself, except that they had nohouses, but holes in the ground : that shefrequently mounted trees, to avoid wildbeasts j and that her countries were cov¬ered with snow: that, when they werecarried away by the ship, on account ofsome attempts they made to escape, thetwo little savages were confined in the holdof the ship; but this precaution had liketo have proved fatal both to them and theship's company ; for here they had form¬ed a schenre of scratching a hole in theship with their nails, by which they mightmake their escape into their favourite ele¬ment, the water. The crew, hbwever,1-6luckily discovered their operations in limeto prevent them, and escape shipwreck.This attempt made them chain the twolittle savages so as to put it out of theirpower to attempt the like again.It appears that, after the escape of thesetwo children from the shipwreck, beingthen incapable of any other views thanthose of liberty and. self-preservation, theypursued no other rout than chance andnecessity presented. At night, accordingto le Blanc, they saw more distinctly thanin the day, fwhich, however, must not beunderstood literally, though her eyes dostill retain somewhat of that faculty,) andtravelled about in search of food. Thesmall game which they catched, and theroots of trees, were their provisions. Thetrees were likewise their beds, or rathertheir cradles, for they slept soundly inthem either sitting or riding on somebranch, suffering themselves to be rockedby the winds, and exposed to the inclemen¬cy of the weather, without any. other pre¬caution than securing themselves with onehand, and using the other by way of pil¬low.The largest rivers did not stop theirjourney by day or night, for they alwayscrossed them without any dread. Some-1*7tiities they entered for the sake of drink¬ing, which they performed by dipping intheir chin up to the mouth, and suckingthe water like horses. But they mostfrequently entered the rivers to catch thefish they saw at the bottom, which theybrought on shore, to open, skin and eatthem.Having hinted to Mademoiselle !e Blanc,the difficulty I had to believe it possible,I for her to make her way out of a deepriver, in the way she mentioned, withoutthe assistance of her hands and breath ;she assured me, that without such assis¬tance she always mounted to the surface,a very little breath being sufficient forthat purpose, having given an exampleonly four years ago. Of this she shewedme the way, standing upright, with botharms held straight up, as if holding some¬thing above the water, having the end ofher handkerchief between her teeth, likea fish, breathing at the same time softly,but without stopping, with each corner ofher mouth alternately, as a smoakerbreathes with one side of his mouth, whilehe holds his pipe in the other.—In thisway, by le Blanc’s account, she and hercompanion passed the Marne, in their way18sto Songi, where she was taken, as above-mentioned.In her last year, she was in a poor stateof health, having lost all her extraordinarybodily faculties, and having nothing of thesavage, but a certain wildness in her look,and a great appetite.The foregoing Narrative was drawn upunder the immediate inspection of M. dela Condemine, a French gentleman whosecuriosity and accuracy in matters of thissort, is universally known, and who hada particular acquaintance with Mademoi¬selle le Bianc. It bears the plainest marksof truth and authenticity; bu*: if anydoubts remained, the facts covdd be attest¬ed by living witnesses. The woman her¬self was alive in the year 176.5, when thetranslator and a Scots gentleman, then atParis, had several conversations with her.To these two gentlemen she related thefollowing particulars : That she remem¬bered the country she came from was verycold, covered with snow a great part ofthe year.— 1 hat the children there are ac¬customed to the water from the momentof their birth, and learn to swim as soonas to Walk.—That they are taught veryearly to climb trees j and a child of a year19old there, is able to climb a tree.—Thatthe people live in little huts above the wa¬ters, like beavers, and subsist chiefly byfishing. She herself was so much used towater, that when she came to France, shei could not live without it, and was in useto plunge into it over head and ears, andto continue in it, swimming about, anddiving like an otter, or any other am¬phibious animal.She supposes she was only about sevenor eight years of age when she was carriedaway from her own country ; yet, by thattime, she had learned to swim, to fish, toshoot with'the bow- and arrow, to climb,and to leap from one tree to another, likea squirrel. She was taken up at sea, whereshe was with other children, set in a littleround canoe, which was covered with askin, that drew about her middle like apurse, and prevented the water from get¬ting in ; for, she says, it is the manner inher country, to put the children early outto sea, in such canoes, in order to accus¬tom them to bear the sea breaking overthem, which though it may overturn thefanoe, does not sink it. When she wastaken up, she was put aboard a great ship,carried to a warm country, and sold as aslave ; the person who sold her having first20pamted her black, with a view fo makeher pass for a negro. r,v,l 'She says further of the country fromwhence she was carried away, that thepeople there had no clothing but skins,and made no use of fire at all, so that whenshe came to France, she could not bear thefire, and hardly even the close air of aroom, or the breaths of persons who werenear her. There were, she says, anothersort of men in this country, who were big¬ger and stronger than her people, and allcovered with hair; and these people wereat war with her people and used to eat themwhen they could catch them.In the hot country to which she was firstcarried, she says, she was re-embarked,and performed a very long voyage; dur¬ing which, the master, to whom she hadbeen sold, wanted to make her work par¬ticularly at a sort of needlework; he beather, but her mistress, who, she thinks,spoke French, was very kind to her. Thatthe ship hiving been wrecked, the crewtook to the boat; but she, and a negrogirl that was on board, were left to shiftfor themselves. The negro girl, she says,could not swim so well as she, but shekept herself above water, by taking holdof ie Blanc’s foot, and in this way they21both got on shore. They then traverseda great tract of country, commonly tra¬velling all night, and sleeping in the day¬time on the tops of trees. They subsistedupon the roots which she dug out of theground with her fingers, and particularlyher thumb, which by that, and by the useshe made of it in climbing, and leapingfrom one tree to another, was much largerthan the thumbs of other people. Theyalso catched as much game as they could,which they eat raw with the warm bloodin it, in the same manner as a hawk orwild beast does. And she remembers par¬ticularly, that they killed a fox, of whichthey only sucked the blood, finding theflesh very disagreeable.She had, when she was caught at Songi,the bludgeon above-mentioned, which shewore in a pouch by her side; and, besides,she had a longer stick, with three piecesof iron at the end of it, one in the middlesharp and pointed, and the other two up¬on the sides hooked; and the use made ofit, was to stab any wild beast that attack¬ed her, with the sharp point; and withthe hooks she assisted herself in climbingtrees, by catching hold of the branches ;and she says it was particularly useful toher, in defending her against the bears,22when they attempted to follow her upthe trees. This weapon, she says, shebrought with her from the hot country,but the other from her own.From the above particulars, which Ilearned from her O'yn mouth, I think I amable to fix with some certainty upon thecountry of which she is a native. She hasbeen supposed to be of the Esquimaux na¬tion ; but there is sufficient proof to refutethis notion, for she is of a fair complexion,a smooth skin, anJ features as soft as anEuropean. Whereas the people of the Es¬quimaux nation are, by the accounts ot alltravellers, the ugliest of men, of the harsh¬est and most disagreeable features, and ailcovered with hair. She is certainly notmistaken of the situation o: the countrywhich she gives, for it is certainly a verycold country ; and the people which shedescribes as living in the neighbourhood ofher nation can be no other than the Esqui¬maux; and when %ve add to this, whattravellers tell us of a certain race of peop’ewho are fair, of smooth sxins, and softfeatures, living in the country of Labra¬dor, upon the East side of Hudson s Bay,in the neighbourhood of the Esquimaux,we cau hardly doubt but that Mademoi-scile !e Blare, is one of that race of people,23and that her native country is the coast ofHudson’s Bay, considerably to the northof Nova Scotia, the principal.of the Bri¬tish settlements in North America.till .j fcc9rn,jvo;j f3lb.H'h zhpiVI siicMr’c svcii or!;,' .i(i \o tfjiiqeollfi' .‘jvod/; hl/Jt y/ib *>ill. I—.tlftH ':)(! f9nioM t/l uutimsil/i (bsrr' is, 1 jI ,5.3130ionffOEXFIiACT,e i O i 3 J/•’/ew /Z<? Baptism Register ef the ParishChurch of St. Sulfluc, of the Tcrjjn »fChahns, in Champagne.The 16th of June, in the ) ear of our Lord,was baptized by me, after subscribingPriest, Cai on-Regular, Frier, Curate ofSt. Sulplice of Chalons, in Champagne,Marie Angelique Memmie, aged abouteleven )ears, whose parents are unknown,even to the girl herself, who has beentill er born in, or transported when veiyyoung to some island in America, fromwhence, by the dispesition of a mercifulprovidence, having landed in France, andbeing still conducted by the same goodnessof God, into this diocese, has been, at last,placed under the patronage of our illustri¬ous bhl.c p, in the Hospital Ccnaral of St.24Maur, into which siie entered the 30thof October last; her god*father being M*Memmie le Moine, procurator of rhe saidhospital; and her god-mother, DamoiselleMarie Nicola d’Halle, governess of thesame Hospital of St. Maur, who have at¬tested the day and year as above. (Sosigned) Memmie le Moine, De’ Halle.—I .Couterot, Chanoinereg, Prieur, Cure.I, after-subscribing, Priest, Canon-Rs-ihihr, Curate of St. Sulplice, do certifythe present Extract to be agreeable to irsoriginal. Delivered at Chalons, this 21stof October. (Signed.)D. S AIS, Prieur, Cure.to amtO .rjn'i'FINIS,