SIMPLE SIMON’SMISFORTUNES,AND HIS WIFERGERT's CRUELTY,S !' I R 1. ! Jj G;p,inted■ and sold by c1803... y. yawIff*TheMISFORTUNESOFl M P L E SI M O N, &c.CHAP. I.1 An ^ Account of Simon's Wedding* and hisWfts Behaviour the Day "after theirMarriage.Of MON, who is the fubjtft of our en-O lu;ng dillourfe, was a man very un-Jortunate tor many years afr^r numagenm only by croftes L'utby the crulety of-Margrry bis fevere wife, his veduiiiB day• | being the befl he L\v in (even years aft:; ;for then he had all his friends about him 5Rough Ralph, the (idler, and Will thepiper, were appointed to make him andhis guefls merry.Singing, dancing, and good feafting at- ,jjtended the day, which, being ended, this |loving couple were put to-bed. How he 1pleafed her that night i cannot tell, but the ■]morning was ulhered in with a mighty iftorm only becaufe S;mon put on his roafb- 1meat dothes. thus fne began the matter—rWhy, how new 1 pray wt at is to day, that ■you mufl put on your holiday clothes, wi hpye cruft to you ? What do you i:1 tend 'o jdo, fay you tell me quickly ? Nothing, faidSimon, but to walk abroad with you, fweetiwife as is common on the day after mar-!Tiage.No, no, faid Margery thi? muft not,and (hail not be It is very well known!that fh ave brought you a very confiderable]fcitune ;—’erty Shillings in raoru'y, and afgood milch cow, h u fat weathers, with halfla dozen vews and lambs ; aifo geefe hensand' turkeys, a 10w and pigs, with other!moveables worth more than any of your :rook-backed generation is able to give you.'£ftd do you think you (hall lead as lewd a< 5 )illife now as you did before you married ?chut if you do. then fay my name is notf. Margery. As I have got you fad in thehands of matrimony, l will make you toJknow what it is to be married. I warrantiyou ; therefore to work, you ralcal, andmake fpecial care that what I have broughtms net confirmed- ior if you do. what is to*^become of your wife and children, if vouli(£re able to get any.Now Simon looked like one that had1meither fenfe or reafon, but flood amazed,?;as if there had been an army of Sillingfgatedfhrews. Recolleding, however, what be111)ad formerly heard about fcolds he mut¬tered to himfelf, Udf vager, l think I have>)got a woeful one now, What is that youmay, firrah, faid fhe. Nothing my d« ar•wife, but that what you fay 1 allow to be•rtrue. And fo.taking his bag and his bottle,; 'went forward" to his daily labour. But as heveame towards the lower end of the town,ilhe chanced to meet with old Jobfon a cob¬ier, a brave meny blade, who loved a cuphpf good ale, What ! honed Simon, fays>ljobfon, I am heartily glad to fee you ; forfmee our lad meeting l hear that thou artr,married, and fo i wiih thee much happiaefs( 6 )Now old Jobfon being a merry fellow, in¬vited Simon to take a flaggon of the bell:liquor that the next ale-houfe afforded andthere to drink to Margery’s health. Beingmerry in difeourfe, talking of the merryfrolics and pranks they had played whenthey were both bachelors, Jobfon takingup the fiaggon in his hand, faid. Come, htr?is to thee, hcneh Simon, and I wiih theebetter luck than Randall, thy pld father-in1law. had with his wife, for fhe was fuch aterrible fcold that they were happy who( 7 >lived out of the clamor of her noife. Butbeyood dcdUit thy dear wife M r^ery niybe of a much milder fpirit anJ h re oreof her father's meeknefs th n her mo .ier'sfury in her ; but, come . Sim n , e is tothee, and' to thy dearly btioVuu Mir^cry,Cries Simon, if flie was preient hoair mer¬ry we fliould be ; but L tear on the wrongfide of the mouth.Well faid Jobfon, f vow I long to feeher. and verily believe (lie would be asglad to fee me ; I dare fay the will provea very good wi^e. Truly, neighbour. Job.fon, I do not know, but if I have no betterending than beginning, 1 wifh I had endedmy life at the tail of the plough.No fooner were thefe words out of hismouth, but in comes Margery and hergoffips, whom Jobfon wifhed to fee, for- !iboth t he vviihed her Joy. but Margery, ina dreadful fury, fnatched up Jobfon’s oakenftaff from off the table and g;ve poor Si¬mon fuch a clink upon the noddle as madethe blood fpin out, faying. Is this your workiirrah ? Jobfon the cobler, feeing fo fuddenan alteration, was affrighted, not knowing ;how to efcape. She turning about to theleft, being well difeiplined, faid, then rogueand rafeal, it is you that ruin all the good !women’s hufbands in the town, and there¬fore you fiiall not go unrewarded, giving jhim fuch licks over the back and fhouldersas made poor Joblon lay in fcfcd near a fort¬night Simple Simon all this while not hav- jing any power to run away, flood like onehalf frighten out of his fenfes, and tremblingbefore ids bride, with his hat in one handand the fiaggon in the other, begging herto be patient, and he would never offend her |,any more. JBut fhe gave him a frown, and( 9 )| bid him begone about hij btifnefs, which|: he iiimiedutxly did. Iio that then Mar-Igery and her goflips had a!I the room to(themfelves, where they fat till they were| all as drunk as fo many hfhfa'gs.SZe drags' him up into the Chimney, andhangs him a jmoke drying,T night, when he returned to his homeMargery by the help of a nap fliehad taken, w«s a little reftored to heri^nfes again ; but yet not forgetting thefault he hao committed the invented a newkind of punifhment ; for having a widechimney, wherein they ufe*d to dry bacon.file taking him at a difidvantage. tied him.hand and loot, bonud him in a ba/ket, andby the help of a rope drew him up to theb'^m of the chimney, and left him thereto take his lodging the next night after hiswedding, with a ftnall fmoky fire underhim. lo that in the morning he was feez¬ed like a red herring. But at lengthhe caufed his wife to grant him fo muchpity as to let him down.In love releafe me from this horrid fmoke^And l (hall never more my wife provoke,i She flraight did yield to let him down fromthence.And faid, be careful of the next offence*rTC H A. P. IV,Simon lofes a Sack of Corn that he zuas car¬rying to the Mill to be Ground.NO T long after (he fenf him to the millwith a fade of corn and hid him re-member what fhe faid to him for he fliouldr.ct go unpunilhed. Well, faid Simon, [hope 1 fhaU never offend thee more. Forthis promife fhe gave him a mefs of milk,?:nd when he had eated all up. he took hisfack of corn upon his back and went to*wards the mill, which flood about two milesrom the boufe.When Simon got about half-way, he be¬gan to be weary, which was *he forerunnerof a greeter misfortune ; for a man ridingby, leading an empty horL towards the millperceiving Siirioo feeary of his ioad .told himhe might lay it upon his fpare horfe } towhich Simon willingly cortfenfed. Theman riding on, Simon could not keep pacewith him, fo defired h-m to leave if forhim at the mill ■, he promifed he would, butnfver intended to perform. Simon thusI s.lfoling Ms fack of corn, knew not how to golome, or ihew his face before his wife. un-Hi he got two or three of nis nJgnbours;o go home with him to beg for his par-ion, and to help make up the Uiuerence oe-ween them, which they uid after a long(joariy. So that for this crime he paffed ua-Hunithed.TTWTCHAP. IV.Simon goes io the Market ivith his hajket ofEggs breaks them all by the Way, and isJet in the Stocks.BUT altho* he was not punifhed accord¬ing to the fevere cornelian he hadformerly received, yet he did not efcapethe continually railing in his ears for itveraldays after, ever and anon fhe crying out,Youfct, can you never be wife ? Ves, fweetMargery, dear Margery, I hope I fhall intime Well, fays ihd, will you try once!more ? Here take this bafket of eggs, and igo to maik.-'t, an« fell them; but be fureyou do not break them, nor fpend the mo¬ney, for if you do (orrow fhall be your ]fops, and you Huy expufl to feel the weight ;of my hands more than ever you have donejlyet. At which harfh words he trembled ,much, and looked as pale as his dear wife'sfoiock, for fear he Ihould mifcatry withhis eggs, for he knew his wife would be as.’kgood as her word.\ Then Simon taking his bafket of eggs,fudged to the maiktt, but Avas no LonerOme there, than feeing a vaft crowd of>eople, he refolved to know what was the;*atter- When upon inquiry he foundi&at two butter-women had fallen ontad to that degree that they had tak*n onetoother by the coif, their hair and fillets1 flying about their ears, which Simon ee-ig, he was moved with companion, andrn to part them but in vain ; poor Simonas ft ill unfortunate, and*came oflT withT TO Jgreat lofs ; for one of them pufhed hidown, and broke his eggs.Poor Simon appeared alirtofl diftrafhon feeing the eggs on the groumi j badwhether it was the fear of the anger of his( !wife, or whether courage, thus it wasj;Simon ran in amongft them, revolving oarevt Jge for the iofs of his eggs.Whilfl they were in the fray the con^{table came, and, foppofing them drunk,!gave orcers that they (hould be put m the'|itocks together ; Simon in the middle, andthe women on each fide j which was aecor«€dingiy done, but they rang fuch a peal in'C *7 )limon's cars, that he was deaf for a fort-jrght after-Being relesfed, he ventured home agrun,ireaaing the impending ftorm, but this wr.sis comfort in the midlt of aii his hard fpr-iine that though he might feel the force ofer blows, ffi!l he fhoisld be de-f to heroife, being ftuiined by the women in theocks.SIMON at length coming home, he m«his beloved ^ife Margery who feeinihis dejected countenance, began to mi;ttuft fom-thmg, fo taking hold of his an(he hauled him in for examination. WhejSimon faw this, he could not forbear weeiing, and began to tell her a difmal ftorconcerning the flocks ; but fhe wanted tbmoney for the eggs but Simon being dejcould not hear her, which made her fall ahim with much fury* that at lafl he was obljged to run up flairs, and jumping outof tjlchamber window, which when fhe faw fljfollowed him down the town with an nutdred boys and girls after them. Simon fillcrying out to them. You may fee whatis to be married And her tone was Ycrafca! the money for my eggs, often gi'jjIng him a crack on the crown- At lengfjit was his goood hap to get away from he:( *9 )pight coming on and Simon not havingrone penny to help hWnfelf was forced -oiimake the belt of a bad bargain, fo refolved<o lodge for that night in the hog-ftyeiyith the hogs; and fo next morning, in the>T*refence of fome of his deareft friends, heftegged pardon on his knees cf his fweet,I|ind, and loving wife Margery.( 23 )CHAP. VI.Simon lofes bis Wife's Pail, and burns err -the Bottom of her Kettle.yi"ARGERYbein^reconciled again oaXyJ. his humble petition, fhe chargeqihim to be more careful for the future shailihe did not offend her as he had done before ] sall which he promiied to obferve. IherrSimon, faid (lie l am this day to go a godslipping, and fhall leave you at home tcmake a fire and hang on the kettle. Yesaifweet wife. 'Now Margery was no fconeigone but he mace a fire and hang on timkettle. Then, taking the pail, he goes tc),'the well to letch water, when there cam|ian ox running down, with a butcher anajboy dole after him who called on Simon;to flop the ox, which he endeavoured to dojibut the ox giving them the flip Simon ratiin purfuit ot him, for the fpace of three o|ji.four miles, and having fecured him. tlwbutcher gave, hipx thanks for his kindnefaf.( 21 )Simon returned back to the well, butpail was loftj and he made fad lamen-fion for it, but could hear nothing of it;id, as the old proverb fays. One for rowIdem comes alone ; for on going in doorsfire was fiaming and the bottom of theIttle brrnt out. At the fight of this he|1 to wringing his hands, and ciying out|th a moll lamentable tone never was am fo unfortunate as poor limon j whattil I fay to my wife when (he comes home!I have loft the pail ; fccond, l havennt out the bottom of the kettle- Herell be a lad reckoning for there mif-| Juft in the middle of thefe lamentationsicomts his dearly beloved Margery who/ing heard him. came armed ai?d fittedthe fray, flow now. firrah laid fihe,this been the care you promifed of my|finefs t and wi:h thit ie: fry an sat thenat his head, w hich SSufed the blood toabout his ears Hjis one, fhe tookby the collar anti cufied h:m about theichen at a meft horrid rate, i mon cryingmercy j but c uei Margery ftili en-jbsfed his jniftry, till the neighbours( 2* )came in, perfuaded Margery to be pacfied ; for faid they, it was but a michance.A rafcal, faid (he, for I can fet abornothing but thus he ferves me.Yet they ftill interceded for poor Simountil Ihe excufed him.( 23 )CHAP. vir.iimon's Wife fends him to buy Soap, but go-,: ing over a bridge he let's the Money fallti into the n ivcr ; of a Ragman's Jlealing hisClothes, and Margery's Death and Burial,MARGERY callmg Simon to her, faidVill you ru ver be car etui in any thinglet you about ? Yes, dear wife, l hope [sail. «Yhy then faid (he, take this moneyI have tied up in a clout that you may not)]sfe it Therefore go you to market, and ,;..ake all the hafte you can, and get me fome:ap. i will, fweetv-ife quoth he, and withmat he went as fall hs ever he could.I Now in his way he was to pafs over a>ricge. and, coming to the njiddie of it, aight of crows flew over his head, whichfrightened him, that he let fall his mo-t.j. This was the begining of a new for-jj*w, he flood a wnile, and knew not whatuturfe to take. At length he refovec toiiil off hi» clothes, and jump into the wa-:• and fearch for it. Now, as he was( 24 )fearching for his money, an old ragmaajcame by, and put his clothes in his bagjSimon feeing this, purfued him, but all inivain, fo was forced to return home naked |which his wife feeing fell in a horrid .fweatland taking the dog whip fhe jerked poofiSimon about, making him dance the canairies for two hours he crying out Good wifqforbear. But fhe cried out You rafcahjwhere is my money and your clothes IThus (he continued until /lie was tired andlhe begged her p»rdonAt length it pleafed God to vifit thllmerciful Margery with a fever of which)'fhe died, and never did poor Simon teififlgreater joy than at her funeral.MARGERY’S EPiTAPa.Wi ilten by her hujband.As vile a fce’d as ^yer lived here lies..Tis her hufband’s' pray’r fhe never more jmay rife.FINIS.