THEI Laird of Cool'sghost:I BEINGi A Copy of several Conferences and Meetingsthat passed betwixt the Rev. Mr. Ogilvie,late Minister of the Gospel at Innerwick inEast Lothian, and the Ghost of Mr MaX-[ well, late Laird of Cool.As it was found in MrOgilvie’s closet after hisDeath, very soon after these Conferences.[WRITTEN BY ms OWN HAND.}Glasgow : Printed for the Bookfellers,1827}COPY of CONFERENCES, &'c.UPON the third of February, 1722, atseven o’clock at night, after that I hadparted with Thurston, and coming up thenurial-road, one came up riding after me,-Upon hearing the noise of the horse’s feet !I took it to be Thurston; but looking backand seeing the horse of grey colour. I called,Who’s there? The answer was, The Laird iof Cool, be not afraid. Looking to him withthe little light the moon afforded, I took himto be Collector Castlelaw, who had a mind toput a trick upon me, and immediately I struckwith all my force with my cane, thinking Iwould leave a mark upon him that wouldmake him remember his presumption ; but,although sensible I aimed as well as ever I didin my life, yet my cane finding no resistance,but flying out of my hand to the distance of.:sixty leet, and observing it by its white head,I dismomnted and took it up, but had some idifficulty in mounting again, partly by reasonora certain sort of trembling throughout mywhole joints, something also of anger had itsshare in my confusion ; for though he laughtwhen my staff’flew out of my hand, comingup with him ag in (who halted albthe timeI was seeking my staff,) I asked him oncemore who he'was? lie answered. The Lairdof Cool. I enquired, First, if he was theLaird «t Cool Secondly,-\\ hat brought himhither? And, Thirdly, What was Lis busi-/( 3 )ness with me ? he answered, The reason that1 want you is, tliat 1 know you are disposedto do for me what none ot your brethren inIsithsdalc will so much as attempt, though itserve never so good a purpose. I told himI would never refuse to do any thing to servea good purpose, if I thought I was obliged todo it as my duty. He answered, Since I badUndertaken what few in Nithsdale would, forhe had tried several,persons on that subject,who were more obliged to him than I wasto any person living. Upon this I drew mybridle-reins, and talked in surprise, askingwhat I had undertaken ? He answered, Thaton Sabbath last, I heard you condemnedMr Paton, and the other ministers of Dum¬fries, tor dissuading Mr. Menzies from keep¬ing his appointment with me*; and if youhad been in their place, you would have per¬suaded the lad to do as 1 desired, and that yoRw ould have gone with him yourself, if he hadbeen afraid ; and if you had been in Mr Pa-ton’s place, you would have delivered mycommissions yourself, since they tended to doseveral persons justice. I asked him, PrayCool, who informed you that I talked at thatrate ? To which he answered, You must knowthat we are acquainted with many things thatthe living know nothing about; these tilingsyou did say, and much more to that purpose,and deliver my commissions tor my lovim*Upon this I said, ’ Pis a pity, Coo^wife.t * See Note at the bottom of Page 5tb.( 4 )that you who know so manv things, should ifnot know the difference between an absolute ||and conditional promise ; I did indeed, at the ]itime you mention, blame Mr Paton, for Ithought him justly blameable, in hinderingthe lad to meet with you, and if I had beenin his place, I would have acted quite thereverse; but I did never say, that if youwould come to lunerwick and employ me,that I would go all the way to Dumfries on jsuch an errand, that is what never so muchas entered into my thoughts. He answered,what were your thoughts, I don’t pretendto know, but I can depend on my informationthat these w-ere your words; but I see youare in some disorder, I . will wait upon youwhen you have more presence of mind.By this time we were at James Dickson’sinclosure below the church yard ; and when 1I was recollecting in my mind, if ever I hadspoken these words he alled'ged, he broke oflfrom me through the church-yard, withgreater violence than ever any man on horse¬back was capable of. with such a singing andbuzzing noise, as put me in greater disorderthan I was in all the time I was with him.I wrentto ray house, and my wife observedmore than ordinary paleness in my counte¬nance, and w'ould alledge that somethingailed me. I called for a dram, and told herI wras a little uneasy. Alter I found myselfa little iefreshed, I went to my closet tomeditate upon the most astonishing advertureof mv whole life.( 5 )' Upon the March, 1722, bciri£ atJHare-hend, baptjzing the sl)ej)lierd’s chihtjI came off at sun-setting, or a little after,|and near William White’s inarch, the Lairdjof Cool came up with me ga formerly ; andafter his first salutation, bade ms bo* ba afraid.I told him I was not in the lea&S afraid, inthe name of GOD, and Christ my Safiou^hat he would do me the least harm; for Iknow that he in whom I trusted vv»s stronger,han all they put together; and if any of themshould attempt to do, even to the horse that1 ride upon, as you have done to Dr. Men-ide’s man, if it be true that is said, andgenerally believed about Dumfries, I havefree access to complain to my Lord andMaster, to the lash of whose resentment yoiiare liable now as beforef.1 Cool. You need not multiply words upon!:hat head, for you are as safe with me, andsafer, if safer can be, than when I was alive.Ogil. Well, then, Cool, let me have dsoeaceable and easy converstition with you fort What I know concerning the matter is this: Thd;ervant of Doctor Mensie, Physician at Dumfries, told bisnaster and many others, that the Laird of Cool, latelylead, appeared to him, rode him down, and killed his horse.—That he appointed him to meet him some time after atiticli a place; which he promised to do; but Mr Paton'then Minister of Dumfries) advised him to break thataremise. Mr Ogilvie, (then Minister of Innerwick, nearD u bar;) on hearing this, blamed Mr Paton much, saying.Had he been there, he would not only have advised him to;cep his promise, but would have gone with him.JAMES HAMILTON.I Dunber, May 2G, 1784. Arinin. Mug.Jbr ITHSd( 6 )the time we ride together, rt'id give me sominformation about the affairs of the othcwTorid, for no man inciines to lose his time iiconversing with the dead, without hearing olearning something that’s useful.Cool. Well, Sir, 1 will satisfy yon as faas I think it proper and convenient. Let mknow what information you went to know.Ogjl. May I then ask you, if you be instate of happiness or not ?Cool. There are a great many things I caanswer, that the living are quite ignorant of|there are a groifct many things that, notwithjstanding the additional knowledge 1 havjacquired since my death, that I cannot an|swer; and there are a great many questionand things that you may start, of which th.last is one, that I will not answer.Ogil. Then I know how to manage ouconversation ; for whatever I shall enquire cyou I see you can easily shiit me; so thatmight profit more by conversing with myselCool. You may try.Ogil* Well, then, what sort of a body ithat you appear in ; and what sort of a horsis that you ride upon, which appears to be s*full of metal'tCool. You may depend upon it, it is nothe same body that I was witness m you:marriage in, nor in which I died, f'>r that nin the grave rotting; but Is such a body lhaiserves me in a moment, for I can fly as fleewith it as my soul cao dp without it; so thealso I Can go to Dumfries and return agaiiCool. No such thing, no such thing ! Notrial, no trial till the great day ! The heavenwhich good men enjoy after death, consistsonly in the serenity ot their minds, and thesatisfaction of a good conscience, and thecertain hopes they have of eternal joy, whenthat day shall come. The pun'shment, orhell of the wicked immediately after death,consists in the dreadful stints of an awakenedOconscience, and the terrors of facing the greatJudge I and the sensible apprehensions ofeternal torments ensuing! And this bears stilla due proportion to the evils they did whenliving ISo indeed the state of some good folksdiffer bin liltle in happiness from what theyenjoyed in the world, save only that they arefree irom the body, and the sins and sorrowsthat attended it. On the other hand, thereare some who may be said rather not to havebeen good, than that they are wicked; whileliving, their state is not so easily distinguishedfrom that of the former; And under thatclass comes a great heed of souls; a vastnumber of ignorant pcop'e, who have notmuch minded the affairs of eternity, but atthe. same time have lived in much indolence,ignorance, and innocence.Ogil. I always thought that their rejectingthe terms of salvation offered, was sufficientg: mid for God to punish them with hiseternal displeasure ; and as to their ignorance,that could never excuse them, since theylive in a place of the world, where the true( 7 )before you can ride twice the length of yourhorse, nay, if I have a mind to go to London,or Jerusalem, or to the moon, if you please,I can perform all these journies equally soon,for it costs me nothing but a thought or wish;for tnis body is as fleet as your thought, forin the moment of time you can torn yourthoughts on Home, I can go there in person ;and as for my horse, he is much like myselffor he is Andrew Johnston, my tenant, whodied forty eight hours before me.Ogil. So it seems when Andrew Johnstoninclines to ride, you must serve him in thequalitv of an horse, as he does you uow.Cool. You are mistaken.Ogil. I thought that all distinctions be¬tween mistresses and maids, lairds and ten¬ants, had been done away at death.Cool. True it is, but you do not take upthe matter.Ogil. This is one of the questions youwon’t answer.Cool. You are mistaken, for that questionI can answer and alter you may understand it.Ogil. Well, then, Cool, have you neveryet appeared before God, nor received anysentence from him^is a Judge.Cool. Never yet.Ogil. I know you was a scholar Cool, andhis generally believed that there ie a priv .'ejudgment, besides ihe general at the greatday: the former imn.ediately after death.—Upon this he interrupted me, arguing,( 10 )the one was immediately after death carriedj up by angels into Abraham’s bosorn, andthe other immediately thrust down to hell.Cool. Kxcuse me, Sir, that does not con¬tradict one vyord that I have said, but youjseem not to understand the parable, whoseonly end is to illustrate the truth, that a manm*y be very happy and flourishing in thisworld, and most wretched and miserable inthe next; and that a man may be miserablein this world, and more happy and gloriousin the next.Ogil. Being so, Cool, I shall yield thatpoint to ycu and pass to another, which hasafforded me mnch speculation since our lastiencounter; and that is, How you came toI know that I talked after the manner that Ii did concerning Mr Baton, on the first Sab-j bath of February last. Was you presentwith me, but invisible ? He answered veryi haughtily, No, Sir, I was not present myself.I answered, I would not have you angry,Cool; I proposed this question for my ownI satisfaction, but if you don’t think proper toanswer, let it pass. After he had paused,with his eyes on the ground, for three or fourtminutes of time at most, with some haste and(seeming cheerfulness, says.Cool, Well, Sir, I will satisfy you in thatspoint. You must know that there are sent'from heaven, angels to guard and comfort(aud to do other special good services to good• people, and even the spirit* of good men( 9 )knowledge of these things might have beeneasily attained.Cool. They never properly rejected theterms of salvation; they never, strictly speak¬ing, re jected Ch'-ist; poor souls, they had asgreat a liking both to him and heaven, asthere gross imaginations were cauabie ohImpartial reason must make many alle^v-ances, as the stupidity of their parents want ofeducation, distance from people of good senseand ' knowledge, and the uninterrupted ap¬plication they were obliged to give to theirsecular affairs for their daily bread, the im¬pious trrachery of their pastors, who per¬suaded them that if they were of such a partyail was well; and many other considerations*which God, who is pure and perfect reasonitself, will not overlook. These fire not sopinch under the load of divine displeasure,as they are out of his grace and favour ; andyeni know it is one thing to be discouragedand eniteanother thing to be persecuted withall die power and rage of an incensed earthlykiag. I assure you, men’s faces are not morevariass and different in the world, than theircircumstances are after death.Ogil I am loth to believe all that youhave said at this time, Cool, (but I will notdispute those matters with you) because somethings you have advanced seem to contradictthe Scriptures, which I shall always look uponas the infallible truth of God. For I lint!,in the parable of Dives and Lazarus, that,(doparted are OH>pioyecl In that errand.Ogil. And do you not think that ev«ryman has a good angel.Cool, No, but a great many particular menhave; there are but few houses of distinctionespecially, but what have at least one attend¬ing them; and from what you have alreadyheard of spirits, it is no difficult matter tounderstand how they may be serviceable toeach particular member, though at differentplaces at a great distance. Many are thegood offices which the good angels do tothem that fear God, tho’ many times theyare not sensib'e of it, and I know assuredly,that ore powerful angel, or even an activeclever soul departed, may be sufficient forsome villages: but ffir your great cities, such,as London, Edinburgh, or the like, there isone great angel, that has the superintend-ance of the whole; and there are inferiorangels, or souls departed, to whose particularcare such a man, of such a particular weightor business, iscommktod. Now, Sir, the king¬dom of Satan does ape the kingdom of Christas much in. matters of politics, as can be,well knowing that court the of wisdom isfrom above; so that from thence are sentout missionaries in the same order. Butbecause the kingdom of Satan is much betterreplenished than the other, instead of onedevil, these are in many instances two orthree commissioned to attend a particulartimiily of influence qnd distmetion.Orm.. I read that there are ten thousandtimes ten thousand of angels that wait uponGod, and sing his praise, and do his will,and I cannot ntiderstand how the good angelspan he inferior in number to the evil.Coon Did not I say, that whatever thenumber be, the spirits departed are employedin the same business ; so that as to the numbero. original deities, whereof Satan is chief,I cannot determine, but you need not doubtbut there are more souls departed in thatplace, which in a loose sense you call hell, byplmost an infinity than what are gone to thatplace, which in a like sense you call heaven,which likewise are employed in the samepurpose: and I can assure you by the bye,that there is as great a difference betweenangels, both good and bad, as there is amongmen, with respect- to their sense, knowledge,cunning, cleverness, and action"; nay, whichis more, the departed souls on both sides out¬do several, from the very first departureof the original angels. This you will perhapsthink a paradox, but it is true.Ogil. I do not doubt it, but what is thatto my question, about which I am solicitous ?Cool. I ake a little patience, Sir; from wbajI have said, you might have understood meif you had your thoughts about you. But Ishall explain myself to you. Both the goo^and the bad angels have stated times of rendezvous, and the principal angels, who bav.{.he charge either of town, cities, or king( is )ams, not to mention particular persons, til-iges, and families, and all that is transactedi these several parts of the country, arenere made open ; and at their re-ericounterm each side, every thing is told, as in yourarish, in milns, kilns, and smithies, onlyj'ith this difference, that many things falsere talked at the living re-encounters, butmthing but what is exact truth, is said orold among the. dead ; only I must observeo you, that, as I am credibly informed,everal of the inferior bad angels, and souls>f wicked men departed, have told manykings that they have done, and then whenji more intelligent spirit is sent oat uponinquiry, and the report of the/ormer seemingdoubtful, he brings in a contrary report, andmakes it appear truth, the former fares' veryill; nevertheless, their regard to truth pre¬vents it; for while they observe Phe truththey do their business and keep their station,for God is truth.Ogtl. So much truth being among thegood angels, I arn apt to think that lies andfalsehood will be as much in vogue amongthe bad.Cool. A gross mistake, and it is not alonethe mistake which the living folks fall under,with respect to the other world : for the case1 plainly is this, an ill man will not slick at(any falsehood to promote his design ; so as: little will an evil soul departed, stand at anything that can make himself successful; bgttU )in aflmftting report ha must tell the tor woe be to him. But besides their montquarterly, or yearly meetings, or whatthey be, departed souls acquainted,take a trip to see another yearly, weedaily, or oftener, if they please. Thus tI answer your question that you was so muconcerned about; for my informationfrom no less than three persons, viz. AndAikman, who attends Thurston’s famiJawcs Corbat, who waits upon Mr. Patfor at that time he was then looking afir*Mrs. Sarah Paton, who was at your hou$and an original emissary appointed to w,upon yours.At this I was much surprized, and affI asked him. And is thea little thinking.really, Cool, an emissary from hell, in whsever sense you take it, that attends niyfaoiilCool. You miay depend upon it.Ogil. And what do you think ishis busineiCool. To divert you from your duty, atcause you to do *• »any ill things as he calfor much depend on having the ministertheir side.Upon this I was struck with a sort of ternwhich I cannot account for, nor express !-In the mean time he said several tilings I d;not understand. But after a little, I comicto my former presence of mind, said,Ogil. But, Cool, tell me in earnestthere be indeed a deuii that attends my famikihowgh invisible to ns nil.( 16 )with me on horseback, at the foot of thei iiiinoti' inclosure, before we came to Dod ;I told him liis last conversation had proved1 so acceptable to me, hat I was well pleased:: to see him ami in ; and that there was a ta^tnumber of things that 1 wanted to inform iny-i self further of, if he would be so good as tosatisfy me.Cool. Last time we met, I refused you no-1 thing ^ou asked ; and now I expect that you1 shall refuse me nothing that 1 shall ask.Ogil. Nothing, Sir, that is in my power,or that lean do with safety-to my reputationand character. What then are your de-1 mands ?Cool. All that I desire of you is, that as youi promised that on a Sabbath day you would goto my wife, who now possesses all my effects,: and tell her the following particulars; andtell her in my name to rectify these matters.First, That I was owing justly to Provostf Crosby ^650 Scots, and three years interest;but hearing of his death, my good brother,the Laird of C—1, and I forged a discharge,narrated toe bond, the sum, and other par¬ticulars, with this honourable clause, “ Andat. the time it had fallen by, and could noti be found:” witli an obligation on theProvost’s part, to deliver up the Bond as soonas he could hit upon it. And this dischargewas dated three months before the Provost’sdeath. And when his son and successor,Andrew Crosby, wrote to me. coucerning thist 15 )Cool. Just as sure as you are breathin'?, butbe not so much dejected upon this informa¬tion, for I tell you likewise, that there is aigood angel who attends.you, who is strongerthan the ether.Ogil. Are you sure of that, Cool ?Cool. Yes, there is one riding on yourright hand, who might as well have been else¬where, for I meant you no harm.Ogil. And how long has he been .with me?!Cool. Only since we passed Brand’s-lee.but now he is gone.Ogil. We are just upon Elensclugh, andI desire to part with you, though perhaps Ihave <Taineel more by conversation than I couldhave done otherwise in a twelvemonth ; Ichoose rather to see you another time, wheryou are at leisure; and I wish it were at asgreat a distance from* In aerW’ck as you canCool. Be it so, Sir; but I hope you vvilbe as obliging to me next re-encounter, as 1have been to you this.Ogil I promise you I will, as far as is con¬sistent with my duty to my Lord and MasteiChrist Jesus; And since you have obligeeme so much by information, I will answer a!the questions, you propose as far as consist'with my knowledge; but I believe you wainno information from merCool. I came not here to be instructed byyou, but I want your help of another kind.Upon the 5lh of April 1722, as I was re- >turning from Old Hamstocks, Cool came up( 13 ).discharge for'^200 Scots that I was owingj your father-in-law, and his own friendfr Muirhead, which discharge I gave toihn Ewart, when he desired the money;d he, at my desire, produced it to you, whichui sustained.A great many of the like instances were[Id, of which I cannot remember the per¬ns names and things; but, says he, whatxes me more than all these, is the injusticelid to Homer Maxwell, tenant to my Lord( ithsdale, for whom I was factor. I bor-ijwed 2000 merksfrom him, 500 of which hei Trowed from another hand: I gave himy bond, and, for reasons I contrived, Ijtliged him to secrecy : He died within thejar, and left nine children, and his wifelid died before himself. I came to seal upI| papers for my Lord’s security ; his eldestIkighter entreated me to look through themand to give her an account what was their»!ck, and what w’as their debt. I very will-fely undertook it, and in going through therijpers, I put my own bond in my pocket.j:|s circumstances proving bad, his nine chil-. pn are now starving. These things I desire>)u to represent to my w ife; and take herkbther with you, and let them be immediate-Irectified, for she ha's a sufficient fund to dojpon ; and if it were done, I think I wouldeasy and happy; therefore I hope you willke no delay.. Mter a short pause, I answered, It is a( n )Bond, 1 cnme to him and showed him iibrged discharge, which silenced him ; so tiI got up my bond without more ado. Awhen I heard of Robert Kennedy’s deawith the same help of C 1, 1'got aupon, him lor j£190 of which I got lull scomplete payment, C 1 got the haltWhen I was at Dumfries, the same day tThomas Grier died, to whom I was owan account ofh£36, C 1, my good brothwas then at London, and not being ablemyself, being but a bad writer, to makea (ji.-charge of the account, which I wanjexceedingly, I met accidentally with jRobert Boyd, a poor writer lad in Dunilr jI took him to Mrs. Garnock’s, and gave Ia bottle of wine, and told him that I had jThomas Grier’s account, hut had neglato get a discharge ; and if he would helpto one I would reward him. He flew afrom me in a great passion, sating, he <vcrather he hanged ; hut if I had a mind,these things I had better wait till C—came home. 'Ibis gave me great tnnfearing what C 1 and I had done form,was no secret. I followed Boyd to the sttancf made an .apology, saying I was jestljcommending him for Ins honesty, and got apromise never to repeat what had passed!rsent for my cousin B—m H — ric, yourg<pibrother, who with no difficulty for a gn;and a half, undertook and performed allI wanted ; and for a guinea more made m '( 19 ).rood errand, Cool, you are sending me todo justice to the oppressed and injuied, butinotwithstanding that I see myself come in■ for £200 Scots, yet I begged a blue time to1 consider the matter. And since 1 nnd you]are as much master of reason noty as ever,and more titan ever, I will reason upon thematter in its general view, _ and then withrespect to the expediency ol my bemg themessenger; and litis I will do wtth all mannerof frankness. From what you have sate,see clearly what your present condition is, sol that I need not ask any more questions uponi (that head ; and you need not bid me take. courage, and be not afraid ot you, lor a, tinsimoment I am no more afiaiu oi you than a! new-born chdd.Cool. Well, say on. .\\ Ogil. Tell me then, since such is yourlability that you can fly a thousand miles m: the twinkling of an eye, if your desire to do: Tie oppressed justice be as greatasyou, > oU m *Kvhat is the reason you don’t fly to tae coners' of some rich Jew or Banker, where’are thou-lLands of gold mid silver, invisibly ini mid m-1 visibly return it to the coiFers m the njuredAnd since your wife lias sufficient tund, midmore, wny cannot you empty her purse, m-visibly, to make these people amciuU.Cool. Because I cannot.Ogil If these tilings be rectified, you wouldlie easy and happy; I don’t at all credit that,lor whatever justice may be done to the peo-V.,,v< 50 > 'pie, yet the guilt of the base action always re ;mains upon you.Cool. Now yoti think you have silenced'|jme and gained a noble victory; but I’will®showyou your mistake immediately; for I can-; *not touch any gold or money, by reason oithese spirits that are stated guardians ofjusticeand honesty.Oqxl. What is that you tell me, Cool ? Do.1not unworthy fellows break houses every night, 4?and yet you, that can put yourself into so ||many hundred different shapes in a moment,cannot do it? What is that you tell me,ICool ?Cool. ’Tie true. Sir, against the living, menmay find out some probable means of securingthemselves; but if spirits departed were al¬lowed, then no man would be secure; for, inthat case, every man that I had a prejudice at,would soon be beggared.Ogil. Might you not go to the mines ofMexico and Peru, where those little sums'would not be missed ?Cool. No, Sir, for the same reason.Ogil. But Cool, there is so much treasure1lost in the sea, you may easily dive into the-bottom of it, search that, and refund those'people their losses, where no man is injur¬ed.Cool. You are a little too forward this™night, Sir, and inclined much to banter;What r ve said might satisfy you, but since Bit docs not. I’ll tell you further, that not\21 )rspirits, good nor bnd, bad the power to takeany money or gold ; the good never do,though the bad, if once in an age, it is nosmall quarrel; for if it were allowed them,hen they would be very successful in theirbusiness, and never fail of gaining their[joints.I Ogil. What hinders them, Cool ?' Cool. Superior power, that governs andpiards all.1 Ogil. You have satisfied me entirely uponhat head. But pray, Cool, what is the rea-on that you cannot go to your wife yourself,imd tell her what you have a mind; I shouldjhink this is a more sure way to gain yourSoirrt.1 Cool Because I will not.I Ogil. That is not an answer to me, Cool.J Cool. That is one of the questions that I:)kl vou long a^o I would not ans ver ; but ifdu go as I desire, I promise to gire you full! tisfaction after you have done your business,rust me for once, and believe me I will notsappoint you.! Upon the 10th of April, 1722, comingom Old Cambus, upon the post road, I metith Cool upon the bead of the heath, callede Pees. He asked me if 1 had considerede matter he had recommended ? I told himhad, and was in the same opinion I was in1 ien we parted ; that I would not possiblyIdertake his commissions, unless he couldre me them in writings under his hand.[( 22 )I t«4ii him that the list of 1m grievances wortso great, that I could not possibly remembei'them without being put in writing; and tint.1 wanted nothing but reason to determine mtin that and all other a flairs of my life,know, said he, this is a mere evasion ; but telme it the Laird of Thurston will do it ? I asure- said i, he will not; and if he should,would do all that I eouiel to -hinder him ; forthink he has as little concern in these matteras myself. But tell me. Cool, is it not as eaS'to write your story as tell it, or t itle on win;do-you-call-kim, for I have forgot your horsename.Coot. No, Sir, it is not; and perhapsmay convince you of (he reasonableness ofaf’tei wards.(Join. I would be glad to hear a rcaso:that is solid, for not speaking to your wiyourself. But however, any rational cresture may see what a fool I would makemyself, it I would go to Dumfries, and teyour wife that you had appeared to me, attold so many forgeries and villanies that ycjhad committed, and that she behoved to malreparation : The consequence might perhabe, that she would scold me; for she vvou.be loth to part with any money she possessand therefore tell me I was mad, or possib;pursue me for a calumny: How wouldvindicate myself? How could I prove illever you spoke with me? Mr Baton, atother ministers in Dumfries, would tell t( 23 }! tho devil had ppoken, with me mid whofshoxsld I repeat these things for truth, whichhe, that was a liar from the liegimving, hadtold me: 0—p—-1 and B—m II—rie wouldbe upoti me, and pursue me before the Com-missary; and every body woidd look upon meas brain-sick or mad : 1 hereforc I entreat yondo not insist upon'sending me so ridiculous anerrand. The reasonableness of my demandsI leave to your own consideration, as youidid your former to mine. But dropping the(matter till our riext interview, give me leaveto enter upon some more diverting subject;and I do not know. Coo!, but the informationyou have given, may do as much service toJ imankind, as theredress of all these grievances'Would amount to.[Mr. Ogil vie died very scon after.]F INIS.Ij Tb the Arminian Magazine for 1785 (in addition to whati s mentioned at the bottom of page 5,) Doctor Hamilton! iays, “ Tl.e ensuing relation of what followed,** (viz. an(iccount of the Conferences,) “ wrote in IVlr. Ogilvie’s ownland, was found in his desk after his death by Mrs Ogilvie ;be gave it to Mr. L. now minister at Oldhamstock, whoijave it to me.”I ‘( 2* )AWONDERFUL STORY;From a Book, entitled,Visits from the World gSpirits*A Clergyman, who lived in the Masschusetts, and had entertained an opinio'for more than fifty years, that such storiwere only the vapours of distempered atweak brains, was convinced at last in the folowing manner : Being in his own garden, IIsaw his own likeness or apparition, dressed ju:as he then was, pass by him, and look him ftin the face. He ran into the house in a gresurprise, told his family what he had seen, thhe was convinced of his former error, and thhe feared he should live but a few days. HIwords proved true, for he died in a short tinafter.FINIS.