THEIRON SHROUD;ou.Itallim Uevenge.PAISLEY:PRINTED BY CALDWELL AND SON, 2, NEW STREET.THESKIiai' SHU® IT®.The castle of the Prince of Tolfi was builton the summit of the owering and precipitiousrock of Scylla, and commanded a magnificentview of Sicily in all its grandeur. Here dur¬ing the wars of the middle ages, when thefertile plains of Italy were devastated by hos¬tile fictions, those prisoners were confined,for whose ransom a costly price was deman¬ded. Here, too, in a dungeon, excavateddeep in the solid rock, the miserable victimwas immured, whom revenge pursued,—thedark, fierce, and unpitying revenge of anItalian heart.Vivenzio—the noble and the generous,the fearless in battle, and the pride of Naplesin her sunny hours of peace—the young, thebrave, the proud, Vivenzio fell beneath thissubtile and remorseless spirit. He was theprisoner of Tolfi, and he languished in thatrock-encircled dungeon, which stood alone,and whose portals never opened tw%e upon aliving captive.It had the semblance of a vast cage, for theroof, and floor, and sides, were of iron, so-i dly wrought, and spaciously constructed.High above there ran a range of seven gratedwindows, guarded with massy bars of thesame metal, which admitted light and air.Save these, and the tall folding doors beneaththem, which occupied the centre, no chink,or chasm, or projection, broke the smoothblack surface of the walls. An iron bedstead,littered with straw, stood in one corner; andbeside it, a vessel with water, aud a coarsedish filled with coarser food.Even the intrepid soul of Vivenzio shrunkwith dismay as he entered this abode, andheard the ponderous doors triple-locked bythe silent ruffians who conducted him to it.Their silence seemed prophetic of his fate, ofhe living grave that had been prepared forhim. His menaces and his entreaties, his in¬dignant appeals for justice, and his impatientquestioning of their intentions, were alike vain.I hey listened, but spoke not, Fit ministersof a crime that should have no tongue !How dismal was the sound of their retir¬ing steps! And, as their faint echoes diedalong the winding passages, a fearful presagegrew within him, that never more the face,or voice, or tread, of man, would greet hissenses. He had seen human beings for thelast time ! And he had looked his last uponthe bright sky, and upon the smiling earth,and upon a beautiful world he loved andwhose minion he had been ! Here he was toend his life—a life he had just begun to revel4in! And by what means ? By secret poison ?or by murderous assault? No—for then ithad been needless to bring him thither. Fa¬mine perhaps—a thousand deaths in one ! Itwas terrible to think of it—but it was yet moreterrible to picture long, long years of captivityin a solitude so appalling, a loneliness sodreary, that thought, for want of fellowship,would lose itself in madness, or stagnate intoidiocy.He could not hope to escape, unless hehad the power, with his bare hands, of ren¬ding asunder the solid iron walls of his prison.He could not hope for liberty from the re¬lenting mercies of his enemy. His instantdeath, under any form ef refined cruelty, wasnot the object of Tolfi, for he might have in¬flicted it, and he had not. It was two evi¬dent, therefore, he was reserved for some pre¬meditated scheme of subtile vengeance ; andwhat vengeance could transcend in fiendishmalice, either the slow death of famine, or thestill slower one of solitary incarceration, tillthe last lingering spark of life expired, ofrea-son fled, and nothing should remain to perishbut the brute functions of the body ?It was evening when Vivenzio entered hisdungeon, and the approaching shades of nightwrapped it in total darkness, as he paced upand down, revolving in his mind these horri¬ble forebodings. No tolling bell from thecastle, or from any neighbouring church orconvent, struck upon his ear to tell how thehours passed. Frequently he would skip andlisten for some sound that might betoken thevicinity of man ; but the solitude of the desert,the silence of the tomb, are net so still anddeep as the oppresive desolation by which hewas encompassed, flis heart sunk within him,and he threw himself dejectedly upon hiscouch of straw. Here sleep gradually obli¬terated the consciousness of miserv, and blanddreams wafted his delighted spirit to sceneswhich were once glowing realities for him, inwhose ravishing illusions he soon lost the re¬membrance that he was Tolfi’s prisoner.When he awoke, it was daylight; but howlong he had slept he knew not. It might beearly morning, or it might be sultry noon, forhe could measure time by no other note of itsprogress than light and darkness. Hq hadbeen so happy in his sleep, amid friends thatloved him, and sweeter endearments of thosewho loved him as friends could not, that inthe first moments of waking, his startled mindseemed to admit the knowledge of his situa¬tion, as if it had burst upou it for the firsttima, fresh in all its appalling horrors. Hegazed round with an air of doubt and amaze¬ment, and took up a handful of the straw uponwhich he lay, as though he would ask himselfwhat it meant. But memory, too faithful toher office, soon unveiled the melancholy past,while reason, shuddering at the task, flashedcbefore bis eyes the tremendous future. Thecontrast overpowered him. He remained forsame time lamenting, like a truth, the brightvisions that had vanishe-1; and recoiling fromthe present, whi*h clang to him as a poisonedgarment.When he grew more calm, he surveyed hisgloomy dungeon. Alas! the stronger lightof day only served to confirm what the gloomyindistietness of the preceeding evening hadpartially disclosed, the utter impossibility ofescape. As, however, his eyes wanderedround and round, and from place to place, henoticed two circumstances which exited hissurprise and curiosity. The one, he thoughtmight he fancy; hut the other, was positive.His pitcher of water, and the dish which con¬tained his food, had been removed from hisside while he slept, and now stood near thedoor. Were he even inclined to doubt this,by supposing he had mistaken the spot wherehe saw them over night, he could not, for thepitcher now in his dungeon was neither of thesame form nor colour as the other, while thefood was changed for some other of betterquality. He had been visited therefore dur¬ing the night. But how had the person ob¬tained entrance ? Could he have slept sosoundly, that the unlocking and opening ofthose ponderous portals were affected withoutwaking him ? He would have said this was' ‘ in doing so, he must7admit a greater difficulty, an entrance byother means, of which he was convinced thereexisted none. It was not intended, then, thathe should be left to perish from hunger.But the secret and mysterious mode of sup-plying him with food, seemed to indicate hewas to have no opportunity of communicatingwith a human being.The other circumstance which had attract¬ed his notice, was the disappearance, as he be¬lieved, of one of the seven grated windowsthat ran along the top of his prison. He feltconfident that he had observed and countedthem ; for he was rather surprised at theirnumber, and there was something peculiar intheir form, as well as in the manner of theirarrangement, at unequal distances. It was somuch easier, however, to suppose he was mis¬taken, than that a portion of the solid iron,which formed the walls, could have escapedfrom its position, that he soon dismissed thethought from his mind.Vivenzie partook of the food that was be¬fore him, without apprehension. It mightbe poisoned ; but if it were, he knew he couldnot escape death, should such be the designof Tolfi •, and the’quickest death would be thespeediest release.The day passed wearily and gloomily;though not without a faint hope that, by keep¬ing watch at night, he might observe whenthe person came ag-ain to bring him food,8which he supposed he would do in the sameway as before. Tire mere thought of beingapproached by a living creature, and the op¬portunity it might present af learning thedoom prepared, or preparing, for him, impart¬ed some comfort. Besides, if he came alone,might he not in a furious onset overpowerhim ? Or he might be accessible to pity, orthe influence of such munificent rewards as hecould bestow, if once more at liberty and mas¬ter of himself. Say he were armed. Theworse that could befall, if not bribe, nor pray¬ers, nor force prevaled, was a faithful blow,which though dealt in a damned cause, mightwor/t a desired end. There was no chance sodesperate, but it looked lovely in Vivenzio’seyes compared with the idea of being totallyabandoned.The night came, and Vivenzio watched.Morning came, and Vivenzio was confound¬ed ! He must have slumbered without A"nowting it. Sleep must have stolen over himwhen exhausted by fatigue, and in the inter¬val of feverish repose, he had been baffled ; forthere stood his replenished pitcher of water,and there his day’s meal! Nor was this all.Casting his looks towards the windows of hisdungeon, he counted but f,yi ! ere wasno decepton ; and he was now convinced therehad been none the day before. But what didall this portend ? into what strange and mys¬terious den had he been cast? e^azidtillhis eyes ached ; he could discover nothing* toexplain the mystery. That it was so, he knew.Why it was so, he racked his imagination invain to cojecture. He examined the doors.A single circumstance convinced him that theyhad not been opened.A wisp of straw, which he had carelesslythrown against them the precceding day, as hepaced to and Iro, remained where he had castit, though it must have been displaced by theslightest motion of either of the doors. Thisw'as evidence that could not be disputed ; andit followed there must be some secret machin¬ery in the walls by which a person could enter.He inspected them closely. They appearedto him one solid and compact mass of iron ; orjoined, if joined they were, with such nice art,that no mark of division was perceptible. A-gain and again he surveyed them—and thefloor—and the roof—and the range of vision¬ary windows, and he was now almost temptedto consider them ; he could discover nothing,absolutly nothing, to lelieve his doubts or sat¬isfy his curiosity. Sometimes he fancied thataltogether the dungeon had a more contractedappearance—thit it looked smaller; but thishe ascribed to fancy, and the impression nat¬urally produced upon his mind by the unde¬niable disappearance of two of the windows.With intense anxiety, Vivenzio looked for¬ward to the return of night; and as it ap¬proached, he resolved that no treacherous10sleep should again b«tray him. Instead ofseeking his bed of ftraw, he continued lowalk up and down his dungeon till daylight,straining his eyes in every direction throughthe darkness, to watch for any appearancethat might explain these mysteries. Whilethus eng’aged, and as nearly as he could judge,(by the time that afterwards clasped beforethe morning came in,) about two o'clock,there was a sligdit tremulous motion of thefloors. He stooped. The motion lasted near¬ly a minute ; but it was so extremely gentle,that he almost doubted whether it was real, oronly imaginary. He listened. Not a soundcould be heard. Presently, however, he felta rush of cold air blow upon him ; and dash¬ing towards the quarter whence it seemed toproceed, he stumbled over something whichhe judged to be the water ewer. The rush ofcold air was no longer perceptible ; and as Vi-venzio stretched out his hands, he found him¬self close to the walls. He remained motion¬less for a considerable time ; but nothing oc¬curred during the remainder of the night toexite his attention, though he continued towatch with unabated vigilance.The first approaches of the morning werevisible through the grated windows, breaking,with faint, divisions of light, the darkness thatstill pervaded every ether part, long beforeVivenzio was enabled to distinguish any objectin his dungeon. Instinctively and fearfully11he turned his c-, s hot and infiarced withwatching, towards them. There were four !He could see only four ; but it might he thatsome intervening object prevented the fifthfi-om becoming percptible ; and he walked im¬patiently to ascertain if it were so. As thelight strengthened, however, and penetratedevery corner of the cell, other object* ®f a-mazement struck his sight. On the graundlay the broken fragments of $»e pitcher he hadused the day before, and at a small distancefrom them, nearer the wall, stood the one hehad noticed the first night. It was filled withwater, and beside it was his food. He wasnow certain, that, by seme mechanical contriv¬ance, an opening was obtained through theiron wall, and that through this opening thecurrent of air had found entrance. But how■ofsless ! For had a feather almost w>aved atthe time, he must have heard it. Again heexamined that part of the wall ; but both tosight and touch it appeared one even and uni¬form surface, while to repeated and violentblows, there was no i-everberating sound indi-cative of hollowness.This perplexing mystery had for a timewithdrawn his thoughts from the windows;but now'directing his eyes again towards them,he saw that the fifth had disappeared in thesame manner as the preceeding two, withoutthe least distinguishable alteration of externalappearances, i'he remaining four looked as12the seven had originally looked ; that is, occu¬pying, at irregular distances, the top of thewall on that side of the dungeon. The tallfolding door, too, still seemed to stand beneathin the centre of these four, as it had at firststood in the centre of the seven. But hecould no longer doubt, what, on the preceed-ing day, he fancied might be the effect ofvisual deception. The dungeon wTas smaller.The roof had lowered—and the opposite endshad contracted the intermediate distance by aspase equal, he thought, to that over whichthree windows had extented. He was bewild¬ered in vain imaginings to account for thesethings. Some frightful purpose—some dev¬ilish torture of mind or body—some unheard-of device tor producing exquisite misery, lurk¬ed, he was sure, in what had taken place.Oppressed with this belief, and distractedmore by the dreadful uncertainty of whateverfate impended, than he could be dismayed hethought, by the knowledge of the worst, hesat ruminating, hour after hour, yielding hisfear* in succession to every haggard fancy.At last a horrible suspicion flashed across hismind, and he started up with a frantic air.“ Yes! ” he exclaimed, looking wildly roundhis dungeon, and shuddering as he spoke—“Yes! it must be so! I see it!—l ieel themaddening truth like scorching flames uponmy brain ! Eternal God !—support me! Itmist be so!—Yes, yes, that is to be my fate!Yon roof will descend!—these walls will hemme round—and slowly, slowly, crush me intheir iron arms ! Lord God ! look down uponme, and in mercy strike me with instant death!Oh, fiend, devil—is this your revenge ?”He dashed himself upon the ground inagony;—tears burst from him, and the sweatstood in large drops upon his face—he sobbedaloud—he tore his hair—he rolled about likeone suffering intolerable,anguish of body, andwould have bitten the iron floor beneath him ;he breathed fearful curses upon Tolfi, and thenext moment passionate prayers to heaven forimmediate death. Then the violence of hisgrief became exhausted, and he lay still, weep¬ing as a child would weep. The twilight ofdeparting day shed its gloom around him erehe arose from that posture of utter and hope¬less sorrow'. He had taken no food. Not onedrop of water had cooled the fever of his parch¬ed lips. Sleep had not visited his eyes forsix and thirty hours. He was faint withhunger; w'eary with watching, and with theexcess of his emotions. He tasted of his food;he drank with avidity of the water ; and reel¬ing like a drunken man to his straw, cast him¬self upon it to brood again over the appalingimage that had fastened itself upon his almostfrenzied thoughts.He slept. Hut his slumbers were not tran¬quil. He resisted, as long as could, their ap¬proach ; and when, at last, enfeebled nature14.yielded to their influence, he found no obliv¬ion from his cares. Terrible dreams hauntedhim—ghastly visions harrowed up his imagin¬ation—he shouted and screamed, as if he al¬ready felt the dungeon’s ponderous roof de¬scending on him—h© breathed hard and thick,as though writhing between its iron walls.Then would he spring up—stare wildly abouthim—stretch forth his hands to be s«re he yethad space enough to live—and, mutteringsome incoherent word, sink down again, topass through the same fierce vicissitudes of de¬lirious sleep.The morning of the fourth day dawmedupon Vivenzio. But it was high noon beforehis mind shook off its stupor, or he awoke toa full consciosness of his situation; A»d whata fixed energy of despair sat upon his palefeatures, as he cast his eyes upwards, andgazed upon the three windows that now aloneremained! The three !—there were nomore !—and they seemed to number his ownalioted days. Slowly and calmly he next sur¬veyed the top and sides, and comprehendedall the meaning of the diminished height ofthe former, as well as of the gradual approx-imination of the latter. The contracted di¬mensions of his mysterious prison wese nowtoo gross and palpable to be the juggle of hisimagination. Still lost in wonder at the means,Vivenzio could put no cheat upon his reason,as to the end. By what horrible ingenuity it(was contriyed, that walls, asd roof, and win¬dows, ahould thus adently and imporcoptibly,without noise, and without motion almost, fold,us it were, within each other, he knew not.He only knew they did so ; and he vainlyStrove to persuade himself it was the intention(of the contriver, to rack the miserable wretchwho might be immured there, with anticipa¬tion, merely, of a fate, from which in the verycrisis of his agony, he was to be reprieved.Gladly would he have clung even to thispossibility, if his heart would have let him ;hut he felt a dreadful assurance of its fallacy.'And what matchless inhumanity it was todoom the sufferer to such ligering torments—to lead him day by day to so appalling a death,unsupported by the consolations of religion,unvisited by any human being, abandoned tohimself, deserted ef all, nnd denied even theisad privilege of knowing that his cruel des-itiny would awaken pity! .Alone he was toperish !—alone he was to wait a slow comingtorture, whose most exquisite pangs would beinflicted by that very solitude and that tardy'coming!“ It is not death I fear, ” he exclaimed,'“but the death I mast prepare for ! Methinks,itoo, I could meet even that—all horrible andrevolting as it is—if it might overtake memow. But where shall I find fortitude totarry till it come! How can I outlive theIthree long days and nights I have to live?16There is no power within me to bid the hidecus spectre hence—none to make it familiato my thoughts ; or myself, patient of its errand. My thoughts, rather will flee from meand I grow mad in looking at it. Oh ! for ;deep sleep to fall upon me! That so, itdeath’s likeness, I might embrace death itselfand drink no more of the cup that is presented to me, than my fainting spirit has alreadttasked! ”In the midst of these lamentations, Viven-zio noticed that his accustomed meal, with thipitcher of water, had been conveyed, as beforeinto his dungeon. But this circumstance mlonger excited his surprise. His mind waioverwhelmed with others of a far greater magnitude. It suggested, however, a feeble hopsof deliverance; and there is no hope so feebleas not to yerld some support to a heart bending under despair. He resolved to watch,during the ensuing night, for the signs he hacbefore observed ; and should he again feel th<the gentle, tremulous motion of the floor, 01the current of air, to seize that moment foigiving audible expression to his misery. Someperson must be near him, and within reach o;his voice, at the instant when his food wa:supplied ; some one, perhaps, susceptible opity. Or if not, to be told even that his appre<hensions were just, and that his fate was to bewhat he foreboded, would be preferable to ssuspense which hung upon the possibilitp olhis worst fears being visionary.17£The night came; and as tfie hour approach¬ed when Vivenzio imagined he might expectthe signs, he stood fixed and silent as a statue.He feared to breathe, almost, lest he mightlose any sound which would warn him of theircoming. While thus listening, with every fa¬culty of mind and body strained to an agonyof attention, it occured to him he should bemore sensible of the motion, probably, if hestretched himself along the iron floor. Heaccordingly laid himself softly down, andhad not been long in that position when—yes—he was certain of it—the floor moved underhim ! He sprang up, and in a voice suffocatednearly with emotion called, aloud. He paused—the motion ceased—he felt no stream of airall was hushed—no voice answered to his—heburst into tears ; and as he sunk to the ground,in renewed anguish, exclamed,—“ Oh, myGod 1 my God !. You alone have power to saveme now, or strengthen me for the trial youpermit.”Another morning dawned upon the wretch¬ed captive, and the fatal index of his doom methis eyes. Two windows! and/ao days, and ailwould be over ! Fresh food, fresh water! I heimysterious visit had been paid, though lie hadiimplored it in vain. But how awfully wa* hisi prayer answered inwhat he now saw ! The rooft of the dungeon was within a foot his head. Thei two ends were so near, that in six paces he trodvJ P—l*ii ■ . '■ V i ■»«•*» ilirWiB Tisesar-a*. " '•'l« !■< ' '•'■i'   18the space between them. Vkvenzio shudder¬ed as he gazed, and as his steps traversed thenarrowed area. But his feelings no longeivented themselves in frantic failings. Withfolded arms, and clenched teeth, with eye:that were blood-shot from much watching, ancfixed w ith a vacant glare upon the ground, vvitla hard quick breathing, and a hurried walkhe strod backwards and forwards in silent musing for several hours. What mind shall conceive, what tongue utter, or what pen describethe dark and terrible character of his thoughtsLike the fate that moulded them, they had ncsimilitude in the wide range of this world’:agony for man. Suddenly he stopped, anchis eyes were riveted upon that part of the walwhich was over his bed of straw. Words areinscribed here! A human language, tracerby a human hand ! He rushes towards them;but his blood freezes as he reads:“ J, Ludovica Sforza, tempted by the gohof the Prince of Tolfi, spent three years in contriving and executing this accursed triumph omy art. When it was completed, the perfidious Tolfi, more devil than man, who conducted me hither one morning, to be witness as hisaid, of its perfection, doomed ine to be thifirst victim of my own pernicious skill; lest a:he declared, I should divulge the secret* oirepeat the effort of my ingenuity. May Goipardon him, as I hope he will me, that ministered to his unhallowed purpose ! Miserabli19wretch, wjhoe’er thou art, that leadest theselines, fall on thy knees, and invoke as I havedone, His sustaining mercy, who alone cannerve thee to meet the vengeance of Tolfi,armed with his tremendious engine, which ina few hours must crush yon> as it will theneedy wretch that made it. ”A deep groan burst from Vivenzio. liestood like one transfixed, with dilated eyes, ex¬panded nostrils, and quivering lips, gazing atat this fatal inscription. It was as if a voicefrom the sepulchre had sounded in his ears,“Prepare!” Hope forsook him. Therewas his sentence, recorded in these dismalwords. The future stood unveiled before him,ghastly and appalling. His brain already feelsthe descending horror,—his bones seemed tocrack and crumble in the mighty grasp of theiron walls! Unknowing what it is he does,he fumbles in his garment for some weapon ofself-destruction. He clenches his throat inhis convulsive gripe, as though he wouldstrangle himself at once. He stares upon thewalls, and his warring spirit demands, “ Willthey notanticipatetheiroffice if I dash my headagainst them ? ” An hysterical laugh chokeshim as he exclaims, “ why should 1 ? Hewas but a man who died first in their fierceembrace; and I should be less than man notto do as much ? ”The evening sun was descending, and Vi-venzio beheld its golden beams streaming20through one of the windows. What a thrillof joy shot through his soul at the sight! Itwas a precious link, that united him, for the fmoment, with the world beyond. There wasecstacy in the thought. As he gazed, longand earnestly, it seemed as if the windows hadlowered sufficienly for him to reach them.With one bound he was beneath them—withone wild spring he clung to the bars. Wheth¬er it was so contrived, purposly to maddenwith delight the wretch who looked, he knewnot; but. at the extremity of a long vista, cutthrough the solid rocks, the ocean, the sky,the setting sun, olive groves, shady walks, andin the farthest distance, delicious glimpses o£magnificient Sicily, burst upon his sight.How exquisite was the cool breeze as it sweptacross his cheek, loaded with fragrance! Heinhaled it as though it were the breath of con¬tinued hfe. And there was a freshness in thelandscape, and in the rippling of the calmgreen sea, that fell upon his withering heartlike dew upon the parched earth. How hegazed and panted, and still clung to his hold !somtimes hanging by one hand, sometimes bythe other, and then grasping the bars withboth, as loth to quite the smiling paradise out¬stretched before him ; till exhausted, and hishands swollen and benumbed, he droped help¬less down, and lay stunned for a consideiabletime by the fall.When he recovered, the glorious vision had21Iranishetf. He was in darkness. He doubtedvhether it was not a dream that had passed)efore his sleeping fancy; but gradually hisicattered thoughts returned, and with them•emembrance Yes ; he had looked once a-pnn upon the gorgeous splendour of nature!Dace again hss eyes had trembled beneathheir veiled lids, at the sun’s radiance, andtought repose in the solt verdure of the oliveree, or the gentle swell of undulating waves.Oh, that he were a mariner, exposed upon:;he waves to the worst fury of storm andtempest; or a vary wretch, loathsome with dis¬ease, plague-stricken, and his body one leprousrontagion from crown to sole, hunted forth torasp out the remnant of infectious life beneathhose verdant trees, so he might shun the des-dny upon whose edge he tottered!Vain thoughts like these would steal overiis mind from time to time, in spite of himself;>ut they scarcely moved it from that stuporuto which it had sunk, and which kept him,luring the whole night, like one who had beenhugged with opium. He was equally insen*able to the calls of hunger and of thirst,hough the third day was now commencingince even a drop of water had passed his lips'!de remained on the grouud, sometimes sitting,ometimes lying ; at intervals, sleeping heavi-y ; and when not sleeping, silently brooding>yer what was to come, or talking aloud, inlisordeied speech, of his wrongs, of his*2friends, of his hnmt, aad of thote he loveAwith a confused mingling ef all.In this pitiable condition, the sixth and lasmorning dawned upon Vivenzio, if dawn imight be called—the dim obscure light whicBfaintly struggled through the onje solitar’window of his dungeon. He could hardly b<said to notice the melancholy token. Amyet he did notice it; for as he raised his eyeand saw the portentous sign, there was a slighconvulsive distortion of his countenance. Buwhat did attract his notice, and at the sight owhich his agitation was excessive, was th;change his iron bed had undergone. It waa bed no longer. It stood before him, tlvvisible semblance of a funeral couch or bierWhen he beheld this, he started from thiground ; and, in raising himself, suddenljstruck his head against the roof, which wa;now so low that he could no longer stand upright. “ God’s will be done! ” was all hisaid, as he crouched his body, and placed hihand upon the bier ; for such it was. Thiron bedstead had been so contrived, by thmechanical art of Ludovico Sforza, that athe advancing walls came in contact with ithead and feet, a pressure was produced upo!concealed springs, which when made to playset in motion a very simple though ingeniously contrived machinery, that effected the transformation. The object was, of course, theighten, in the closing scene of this horribldrama, all the feelings of despair and anguishwhich the preceding ones had aroused. Forthe same reason, the last window was so madeas to admit only a shadowy kind of gloom,rather than light, that the wretched captivemight be surrounded, as it were, with everyseeming preparation for approaching death.\7ivenzio seated himself on his bier. 1 henhe knelt and prayed fervently ; and sometimestears would gush from him. The air seemedthick, and he breathed with difficulty ; or itmight be that he fancied it was so, from thehot and narrow limits of his dungeon, whichwere now so diminished that he could neitherstand up nor lie down at his full length. Buthis wasted spirits and oppressed mind no longerstruggled within him. He was past hope, andfear shook him no more. Happy if thus re¬venge had struck its final blow ; for he wouldhave fallen beneath it almost unconscious of apang. But such a lethargy of the soul, aftersucli an excitment of its fiercest passions, hadentered into the diabolical calculations ofTolfi;i and the fell artificer of his designs had imag-i ined a counteracting device.The tolling of an enormous bell struck up¬on the ears of Vivenzio! He started. Itbeat but once. The sound was to close ands stunning, that it seemed to shatter his verys brain, while it echoed through the rocky pas-i sages like reverberating peals of thuuder.This was followed by a suddew crash r? *>r24.roof and walls, as if they were about to fallupon and close around him at once. Viven-zio screamed, and instinctively spread forthhis arms, as though he had a giant’s strengthto hold them back. They had moved nearerto him, and were now motionless. Vivenziolooked up, and saw the roof almost touchinghis head, even as he sat cowering beneath it;and he felt that a further contraction of but afew inches only must commence the frightfuloperation. Roused as he had been, he nowgasped for breath. His body shook violently—he was bent nearly double. His hands rest¬ed upon either wall, and his feet were drawnunder him to avoid the pressure in front.Thus he remained for more than an hour,when that deafening bell beat again, and againthere came the crash of horrid death. Butthe concussion was now so great that it struckVivenzio down. As he lay gathered up inlessened bulk, the bell beat loud and frequent—crash succeeded crash—and on, and on,and on came the mysterious engine of death,till Vivenzio’s smothered groans were heardno more ! He was horibly crushed by theponderious roof and collapsing sides—and theflattened bier was his Iron Sliroud.