THE'i 'if T t''T *t O * 7 i * , . , i14 * ? JtK/Li x i]FALKIRK:PUINTED EOR THE BOOKSELLERS.   -4-0(4-HISTORYOFJOHN CHEAP,THECHAPMAN:CONTAINING.Above a Hundred Merry Exploits done by himand his Fellow Traveller, DrouthyTom, a slicked Shaver.IN THREE PARTS.THEHISTORYOFJOIIY CHEAP,THECHAPMAN.PREFACE.JOHN CHE A P, the chapman, was a very comi¬cal short thick fellow, with a broad face and along nose; both lame and lazy, and somethinglecherous among the lasses. He chose rather tosit idle than work at any time, as he was a haterof hard labour. No man needed offer him cheeseand bread after he cursed he would not have it;for he would blush at bread and milk when hungry,as a begs, ar doth at a bawbee. He got the nameof John Cheap, the Chapman, by selling twent}'needles for a penny, and twa leather laces for afarthing.He swore no oaths but one, which was, Let menever sin.He used no imprecations but, Let me neithercheat nor be cheated, but rather cheat, &c.He gave bad counsel to none but children, toburn the bone combs, that their mother might buyanother when he came again.He never fought with any but dogs, and thegoodwives’ daughters in their daffing, and that’snot dangerous.PART I.The /oilowing Relation is taken J'/om his own mouthverbatim.I, JOHN CHEAP, by chance, 3i some certaintime, doubtless against my will, was born at theHottom, near Habertchoy Mill. My father was aScotch Highlander, and my mother a Yorkshirewench, but honest, which causes me to be of amongrel kind : I made myself a chapman whenvery young, in hopes of being rich when I becameold ; but fortune was fic kle, anil so was I; for tbegan to consider the danger of deep ditches, mid¬den dubs, biting dogs, bogles in barns, bangsterwives and weet sacks ; and what comfort is it saysI, to lie in the cow’s oxter the. length of a coldwinter night; to sit behind backs till the kai-1 bea’ cuttied up, and then to lick colly’s leavings.My first journey was through Old Kilpatrick,1 got no meat nor money until the evening I be¬gan to ask for lodging, then cverv wife to get meaway would either give me cogful of kail, or apiece of cake. Well says I to myself, if this bethe way, I shall begin in the morning to ask forlodging, or any time when I am hungry. Thus Icontinued going from house to house, until mybelly was like to burst, and my pockets could holdno more; at last I came to a farmer’s house, butthinking it not dark enough to prevail for lodging,I sat down upon a stone at the end of a house, tillday light would go away ; and as 1 was gettingup to go into the house, ou'. comes the good wife,and sat down at the end of the stone. 1 being atthe other, there she began to let off her waterwith full force, which l bore with very modestly,till near an end; then she made the wind follow' a:4with such force, as made, as I thought the verystone 1 leaned upon to move, which made me hurstout into laughter; then up gets the wife andruns for it; I followed hard after into the house,and as 1 entered the door, I heard the goodmansaying, Ay, ay, goodwife, what’s the haste, yourun sae fast ?No more passed, until I addressed the goodmanfor quarters; which he answered, ‘ indeed lad,we hae nae beds but three, my wife and f, our¬selves twa, and the twa bits o’ little anes, Willy aadJenny lie in ane; the twa lads, our twa servantmen, Willy Black and fom I’ve, lie in anither;auld Maggs nay mither, and the lass Jean Tirremlie thegither, and that fills them a’.’ O but, saysI goodman, there is some of them fuller thanothers, you may let me lie with your mither andthe lass : I shall lie heads and thravvs wi’ them,and keep on my breeks. A good keep me, quo’the lass frae a’ temptations to sin, although thoube but a callan, heth i’ll rather lie wi’ Sannock(I'arnor. Hout awa, quo’ the auld wife, the poorlad may lie on a battle o’ strae beyond the fire.N o, no, cries the goodwife, he’s no be here thenight, or I’se no be here. Dear goodwife, said I,vi hat ails you at me ! If you will not let me stay,you’ll not hinder me to go where I please. Ay,ay, said she, gae where you like ; then I got in be-\ond the fire, beside the goodman. Now, said 1,goodwife, I like to be here. A d—1 be here, andye be here the night, said she. Ho, bo, said I,but I’m here first, and first corned, first served,•Modvi ife ; but if the ill thief be a friend of yours,uu’ll hae room for him too. Ye thief-like wid-difu’, said she, are ye evening me to be sib to thefoul thief; ’(is weel kend I am corn’d o’ gude ho-5nest folks ; it may be so, goodwife, said I, but yelook rather the other way, when ye would lodgethe d 1 in your house, and ca’ out a poor chap¬man to die, such a stormy night as this. Whatdo ye say, says she, there wasna a bonnier nightsince winter came in than this. O goodwife, whatarc ye saying, do ye no mind when you and Iwas at the east end of the house, such a noise ofwind and water was then : a wae worth the filthybody, said she, is not that in every part ? What,said the goodman, I wat weel there was nae rainwhen I came in. The wife then shoots me out,and bolted the door behind me. Well, said I, butI shall be through between thy mouth and thy noseere the morrow. It being now so dark, and I astranger, could see no place to go to, went intothe corn yard, but finding no loose straw, I fell adrawing one of their stacks, sheaf by sheaf, untilI pulled out a threave or two, and got into the holemyself, where I lay as warm as a pie. 1 he good-man, on the morning, perceiving the heap of cornsheaves come running to carry it away, and stopup the hole in the stack wherein I lay with someof the sheaves ; so w ith the steighling of the straw,and him talking to others, cursing the thieves whohad done it, sw’earing they had stole six sheavesof it; I then skipped out of the hole, ho, ho, saidJ, goodman, you’re not to bury me alive in yourstack ; he then began to chide me, vowing to keepmy pack for the damage I had done: whereuponI took his servants witnesses he had robbed me;when hearing me urge him so, he gave me mypack again, and off I came to the next house, andtold the whole of the story.My next exploit was near Carluke, betweenHamilton and Lanark ; where, on a cold stormy'6night, I came to a little town with four or fivehouses in it; I vrent twice through it, but noneof them would give me the credit to stand all nightamong their horses, or yet to lie in their cow’soxter : at last I prevailed with a wife, if her hus¬band was willing to let me sta}', she would, andsent me to the barn to ask him ; and meeting himat the barn door carrying in strae for his horses,T told him his wife had granted to let me stay iflie was not against it, to which he answered, ‘ ifI should lie in his midden dub, I should get noquarters from him that night; a wheen lazy idlevillains, turns a’ to be chapmen, comes throughthe kintry fashing fouks, ay seeking quarters ; thenext day ye‘11 be gaun wi’ a powder’d perriwig,and a watch at your arse, and winna let fouk standafoie your cbap-doors, ^e’ll be sae saucy.’ 1 bear¬ing thus my sentence from thegoodman, expectedno relief but to lie without ; yet I perceived whenhe came out of the barn, he only drew the doorbehind him. So when he was gone I slips intothe barn, and by the help of one of the kipples,climbs up the mou, and then dives down amongthe sheaves, and happed myself a'l over, so thatI lay as warm as the goodman himself. But in themorning, long before day, two fellows came intothe barn and fell a thrashing, so that by their dis¬turbance I could sleep no more; at last l got upwith my hair all hanging over my face, and whenhe that stood on the opposite side perceived me,I made my eyes to roll, and wryed my face in afrightful manner, so that the poor fellow suppos¬ing he had seen tne d—I, or something as ill, gavea roar as if he had been sticked, and out at thedoor he runs; the other following after him, cry¬ing, Wa, Johnny, man, what did you see ? O *7Sandy, Sandy, the d—1’s on the top o’ the moa',sheavling his mouth at me ; I’ll ne be sae wecl thismonth man, my heart’s out o’its hool, wow butyon be a fearful like face indeed, it would frightany living creature out o’ their sensesI hearing the fear they v ere in, cried to themnot to be frightened, for 1 was not the d—1, but apoor chapman who could not get quarters lastnight; a foul fa’ thy carcase, Sir, for our Jock isthrough the middin dib, dirt and a’ thegither ; hewho went last came again, the other ran into thehouse and told what he had seen. The goodmanand his wife came running, he with a grape in hishand, and she with the Bible, the one crying outSandy, is’t true that the d—1 was in the barn : na,na, said he, it’s but a chapman, but poor Jock hasgotten a fright wi’ him. They laughed heartily atthe sport, took me into breakfast, and by this timepoor Johnny was gone to bed very sick.After this I travelled up by the water of Clyde,near the foot of Tintock hill, where I met with asweet companion, who was an older traveller thanI) and he gave me more information how to blowthe goodwife, and sleek the goodman ; with himI kept company for two months ; and as wc travel¬led down Tweed towards the border, w’e beingboth hungry, and could get nothing to buy for thebelly, we came unto a wife who had been kirning,but she would give us nothing, nor sell so muchas one halfpenny worth of her sour milk: Na, na,said she, 111 neither sell butter, bread, nor milk,’tis a’ little enough to sair my ain family ; ye that’schapmen may drink water, ye dinna work sair.Ay, but goodwife, said 1, I hae been at Temple-bar, where I was sworn ne’er to drink water if Icould get better. What do ye say, said she, about8Temple-bar ! a town just about twa three milesand a bittock f’rae this; a thiefane was to swearyou there, an’ it vvasna auld VVilly Miller thecobbler, the ill thief, a nither minister nor magis¬trate ever was in it a’. O but, says the other lad,the Temple-bar he means by is at London. Yea,yea, lad, an' 3'e be corn’d frae Lunun ye're littleworth. London, said he, is but at home to theplace he comes from. A dear man, quoth she,and whare in a’ the waiT comes he frae ? all theway from Italy, where the Pope of Rome dwells,says he. A sweet be wi’ us, quoth she, for thefouks there awa’ is a’ witches and warlocks, deils,brownies ami fairies. Weel I wat, that is true,said I, and that thou shalt know, thou hard heartedwretch, who would have people to starve, or pro¬voke them to steal. With that I rose, lifts twa orthree long straws, and casting knots on them, intothe byre I went, and throws a knotted straw onevery cow’s stake, saying, thy days shall not belong. The wife followed wringing her hands, ear¬nestly praying for herself and all that w as hers. Ithen came out at the door, and lifted a stone, andthrew it over the house, muttering some words,which I knew not myself, and concluded withthese words, ‘ Thou monster Diable, brother to‘ Beelzebub god of Ekron, take this wife’s kirn,‘ butter and milk, sap and substance, without and‘within, so that she may die in miser), as she‘ would have others to live.The wife hearing the aforesaid sentence, clapther hands, and called out another old woman asfoolish as herself, who came crying after us tocome back ; back we went, where she made useat heartily of butter and cheese; and earnestl}'pleaded with me to go and lift my cantrips, whichI9I did, upon her promising never to deny a hungrytraveller meat nor drink, whether they had moneyto pay for't or not; and never to serve the poorwith the old proverb, “ Go home to your ownparish,” but give them less or more as you see themin need. This she faithfully promised to do whileshe lived, and with milk we drank to the cow’sgood health and her own, not forgetting her hus¬band’s and the bull’s, as the one was goodrnan ofthe house, and the other of the byre; and awaywe came in all haste, lest some of a more under¬standing nature should come to hear of it, and fol¬low after us.In a few days thereafter we came to an alehousein a muir, far distant from any other, it being asore day of wind and rain, we could not travel,but were obliged to stay there; and the house be¬ing very throng, we could get no beds but theservant lass’s, which we were to have for a pennyworth of pins and needles, and she was to lie withher master and mistress. But as we were goingto bed, in comes three Highland drovers on theirway from England ; the landlord told them thatI the beds were all taken up but one, that two chap¬men were to lie in: one of them swore bis broadsword should fail him if a chapman lay there thatnight. They tOvfs our bed, and made us sit bythe fire all night; I put an a great many peats,and when the drover were fast asleep I put on abig brass pan full of wrater, and boiled their brogstherein for the sp:ce of half an hour, then laysthem as they were, every pair by themselves ; sowhen they rose, every one began to chide another,saying, “ Hup, pup, ye shewing a brogfor notone of them would serve a child ten years old,being so boiled in. The landlord persuaded them10that their feet were swelled with the hard travel¬ling, being so wet the last night, and they wouldgo on well enough if they had travelled a mile ortwo. Now the Highlandmen laughed at me thenight before when they lay down in the bed 1 wasto have ; but I laughed as much to see them trotaway in the morning with their boiled brogs intheir hands.PAR T II.We again came to a place near Sutry-hill, wherethe ale was good, and very civil usage, and ourdrouth being very great, the more we drank, thebetter we ioved it. Here we fell in company witha Quack Doctor, .vho bragged us with bottleabout for tu'o daj's and two nights; only whenone fell drunk, he pushed and pricked him upwith a big pin to keep him from sleeping; hebought of our hair, and we of his drugs, he hav¬ing as much knowledge of the one as we had ofthe other; only I was sure I had as much aswould set a whole parish to the midden or mugall at once; but, the profit, though all to come,went to the landlady to make up the loss of hav¬ing the lime p—d oft' the door cheeks.But at last our money ran short, and the land¬lady had no chalk nor faith to credit us, seeing byour coats, courage, and conduct, that we wouldlittle mind performance against the day of pay¬ment : so that we began to turn sober and wisebehind the hand, and every one of us to seek sup¬ply from another; and then we collected all themoney we had amongst us on the table, it was butfour pence halfpenny, which we lovingly dividedamong us, being only three bawbees a-piece; andnas drouthy Tom's stock and mine was conjunctwe gave the Quack again his sh—ng stuff and hisstinking mugs, and lie gave us our goods andpickles of hair which we equally divided betwixtus, the whole of it only came to eighteen shillingsand sixpence prime cost, and so we parted, I wentfor blast Lothian, and Tom for the West; but mysorting of goods being unsuitable for the country,I got little or no money next day ; and it beingSaturday, I prevailed to get staying in a great far¬mer’s house, about two miles from Haddington;they were all at supper when I came in ; I wasordered to go round the servants and collect a soupout of every cog, which was sufficient to haveserved three men; the goodwife ordered me to belaid in tire barn all night, but the bully-faced good-man swore he had too much stuff in it to ventureme there; the goodwife said, I should not lie inthe house, for I wou'd be o’er near the lasses bed ;then the lads swore 1 would not go with them, forI was a forjesket like fellow, and wha kens whe¬ther I was honest or not, he may fill his wallet wi’our claes and gang his vva’ or day light. At last Iwas conducted out to the swine’s stye, to sleepwith an old sow and seven pigs, and there I layfor two nights. Now I began to reflect on thesour fruits of drinking, and own all the miseryjust that was come upon me. In the night theyoung pigs came grunting about me very kindly,thinking l was some friend of their mother’s cometo visit them; they gave me but little rest, a'wayscoming kissing me with their cold noses, whichcaused me to beat them off with my staff whichmade them to make a terrible noise, so that the oldmother came up to argue the matter, running upon me with open mouth, but 1 gave her such arout over her long snout, as caused her to roar outmurder in her own language, and alarmed the ser¬vants, who came to see what was the matter. Itold them their old sow was going to swallow meup alive bid them to go and bring her meat, whichthey did, and the brute became peaceable.On the sabbath morning I came into the house,the goodman asked me if I could shave any; yes,said I, but never did on the Sabbath day; I fancy,said he, you are some Westland VVhig? Sir, saidI, you may suppose me to be what you think pro¬per to-day, but yesternight you used me like a 1'orj',when you sent me into the stye to lie in your sow’soxter, who is a fitter companion for a devil thanany human creature; the next abominable bruteupon the earth, said I, w’ho was forbidden to beeaten under the law, and cursed under the gospel.Be they cursed, or be they blessed, said he, I w ishI had anew of them; but an’ ye will not take offmy beard, ye’s get nae meat here the day; thensaid 1, if ye will not give me meat and drink formoney, until the Sabbath be past, I’ll take on mywallet, and go along with you to the kiik, and tellyour minister how you used me as a hog ; no, saidthe goodwife, you will not want your crowdie,man. But my heart being full of sorrow and re¬venge a few of them sufficed me, whereon I passedover that long day, and at night went to sleep withmy old companions, which was not sound, beingafraid of mistress sow coming to revenge thequarrel we bad the night before.On the morning 1 went into the house, the good-man ordered me the pottage pot to lick, for, saysbe, it is an old property of chapmen. Well, 1 badno sooner begun to it, then out came a great bigmastiff dog from below the bed, and grips me by13the breast then turns me over upon my back, andtakes the pot himself. Ay, ay said the goodman,I think your brother pot-licker and you cannotagree about your breakfast. Well, said I, good-man, you said that pot-licking was a chapman’sproperty, but your dog proves the contrary. Soaway I comes, and meeting the goodwife at thedoor, bid her farewell for ever; but what, said I,is your husband’s name ? to which she answered,John Swine; I was thinking so, said I, he hassuch dirty fashions; but whether was yon his mo¬ther or his sister I lay with these two nights?All that day I travelled the country west fromHaddington, but could get no meat; when askedif they had any to sell, they told me they never didsell any bread, and I found by sad experience, theyhad none to give for nothing. I came into a littlecountry village, and went through it all, house afterhouse, and could get neither bread nor ale to buy.At last I came into a poor weaver’s house, andasked him if he would lend me a hammer; Yes,said he, what are you going to do with it" Indeed,said I, I am going to knock out all my teeth withit for 1 can get no bread to buy in all the country,for all the stores and stacks you have in it: What,said he, was you in the minister’s? I know not,said I, does he keep an alehouse ? O no, said he,he preaches every Sunday; and what does hepreach ? said I, is it to harden your hearts ? baudwell together? have no charity? hate strangers?hunger the poor? eat and drink all jourselves?better burst your bellies than give it to beggars,or let good meat spoil ? If your minister be asnaughty as his people, I'm positive he’ll drive alouse to London for the hide and tallow. Here Ibought the weaver’s dinner for twopence, and14then set out again, keeping my course westward.It being now night, I came to a farmer’s housesouth from Dalkeith ; the goodman being verycivil, and desirous of news, I related the wholepassages of the two days and nights by-past,whereat lie was greatly diverted, and said, I wasthe first he heard of, that ever that man gavequarters ta before, though he was an elder in theparish. So the goodman and 1 fell so thick, thathe ordered me to be laid on a shake down bed bythe fire, where 1 lay more snug than among theswine. Now there were three women lying in abed in the same apartment, and they not mindingthat I was there, first one of them rose and lether water go below the chimney-grate, whereI had a perfect view of her bonny thing, as thecoal burnt so clearly all the night; and thenanother rose and did the same; last of all got upthe old matron, as she appeared to be, like a se¬cond handed goodwife, or a whirled o'er maiden,six times overturned, and as she let her dam go,she also with lull force, when done, Igt a f 1like the blast of a trumpet, which made the asheson the hearth stone to fly up like dust about herbuttocks, whereat 1 was foiced to laugh out, whichmade her to run for it, but to smother the laugh¬ter I stapt the blankets in my mouth ; she went tobed and wakened the other two, saying. O dole !what will 1 tell you H yon chapman body has seena’ our a—ses the night! shame fa' him, said they,for we had nae mind he was there; I wat weelsays one of them, I'se no rise till he be awa’, butsaid the old woman, gin he has seen mine, I cannahelp it, it’s just like other fouk’s, an’ fin't a hair 1care. On the morning the old matron got upfirst, and ordered up the house, then told me to15rise now, for chapmen and every body was up;then she asked me if I had a custom of laughingin my sleep? Yes, said I, when I see any daft likething, 1 can look and laugh at it as well sleepingas waking. A good preserve us, said she, ye’r anunco body, but ye needna wait on your porragetime, 1’se gie you cheese and bread in your pouch,which I willingly accepted, and away I came.Then I kept my course west by the foot of Pent'land hills, where I got plenty of hair, good andcheap, besides a great plenty of old brass, whichw'as an excellent article to make my little pack seembig and weighty. Then I came into a little countryvillage, and going in bv the side of a house, therewas a great big cat sitting in a weaver’s window,beiking herself in the sun, and washing her facewith her feet; I takes her a civil knap on the nose,which makes her turn back in through the window,and the weaver having a plate full of hot pottagein the innerside to cool, poor baudrins ran throughthe middle of them, burnt her feet, and threw themon the grou#d, ran through the house crying fireand murder in her own language, which causedthe weary wicked wabster to come to the door,where he attacked me in a furious rage, and I, toavoid the first ^hock, fled to the top of the mid¬den, where, endeavouring to give me a kick, Icatched him by the foot, and tumbled him backinto the 'midden-dub, where both his head andshoulders went under dirt and water; but beforeI could recover my elwand or arms, the wickedwife and her twa sons was upon me in all quarters,the wife hung in mj hair, while the twa sons boxedme both behind and before, and being thus over¬powered by numbers, l was fairly beat by thiswicked webster, his troops being so numerous.16On the Saturday night thereafter, I was like tobe badly off for quarters, I travelled until manypeople were going to bed; but at last I came to afarmer's house, asked what the} would buy, nam¬ing twenty fine things which I never had, and thenasked for quarters, which they very freely granted,thinking I was some genteel packman, with a richpack, and being weary with travel could take outlittle supper; being permitted to lie in the spencebeside the goodman’s bed, the goodwife beingvery hard of hearing, she thought that every bodywas so, for when she went to bed, she cries out“ A how hearie, goodman, is na yon a braw mo-“ derate chapman we hae here the night, lie took“just seven soups o’ our sowens, and that fill’d“him fu’; a’ dear Andrew man, turn ye about“an’ tak my cauld a—se in your warm lunch-“och.” On the morrow 1 went to the kirk withthe goodman, and I missed him about the door,went into the middle of the kirk, but could seeno empty seats but one big form, where none satbut one woman by herself, and so I set myselfdown beside her, not knowing where I was, untilsermon was over, when the minister began to re¬buke her for using her Merry-bit, against law orlicense ; and then she began to whinge and yowllike a dog, which made me run out cursing, beforethe minister had given the blessing.PART ill.I TR WELLED then west by Falkirk, by thefoot of the great hills; and one night after 1 hadgot lodging in a farmer’s house, there happeneda contest between the goodman and his mother,he being a young man unmarried, as I under-17stood, and formerly their so wens had been toothin; so the goodman, being a sworn birlymanof that barony, came to survey the sowens beforethey went on the fire, and actually swore theywere o’er thin ; and she swore by her conscience,they would be thick enough, if ill hands and illeen baed awa frae them : A sweet be here, mi-ther, said he, do you think that I’m a witch ?'Vitch here, or witch there, said the wife swear¬ing by her saul, and that was nae banning, shesaid, they’ll be gude substantial meat, a whatsay ye chapman ? Indeed, goodwife, said I, sowensare but saft meat at the best, but, if you makethem thick enough, and put a good lump of but¬ter in them, they’ll do very well for a supper; Itrow $ae lad, said she, ye hae some sense: so theold woman put on the pot with her sowens, andwent to mi;k her cows, leaving me to steer; thegoodman, her son, as soon as she went out, tooka great cog full of water and put it into the potamongst the sowens, and then went out of thehouse und left me alone : I considering what sortof a pish-the-bed supper I was to get if I staidthere, thought it fit to set out, but takes up aa pitcher of water, and fills up the pot until it wasrunning over, and then takes up my pack, andcomes about a mile farther that night, leaving thehonest woman and her son, to sup their waterywitched sowens at their own leisure.[ then returned towards the east through aplace called Slamannan, and was lodged one nightnear a place called Todd’s Bughts, where therewas a boul-horned goodwife, but a very civilgoodman ; when I went in, site took up a dishfrom the dog, wherein was a few lie had left, andwith a collection more from other cogs, she offer-18ed them to me, which I refused ; ’m, said she,ye’re a lordly sort of a chapman indeed ; so Ibegan to divert the goodman, by telling him adeal of fine stories to make him laugh, but couldnot get near the fire ; at last, I said, O goodwife.I’ll tell you news. Ay, chapman, what’s that?said she. In ked, my feet's very cauld, said I.They all laughed but the goodwife, she gloomedtill the rest were done, then took a laugh at itherself. So the goodman ordered all the John¬nies Jamies, and Jennies, with their wheels, tosit about ; then I was set beyond the fire and pre¬ferred to steer their sowens, but when they wereready and put in the dishes, the goodwife order¬ed one of the lads to take a pair ©f old blankets,and two sacks, and shew me where l was to liein the b \rn. Ho ho, thinks I, there’s no supperfor me, but I’ll remember to pay her stock andannual. 1 went to the barn and lay till next morn¬ing about chapman’s rising time, when the pot¬tage was ready, then gives the wife a fine cottonlace, and a few pins, which pleased her so wellthat she went through the cogs and collectedabout a mutchkin of pottage for me, for wdiicli Ithanked her : ‘ A r/at weel lad,’ said she, ‘ an yebe coming by ony time ye’se be welcome to anight o’ our barn, for ye hae steal’d naethingthanks to you goodwife, said I, that’s very fair :‘ indeed lad, ’tis no every ane we’ll trust wi’ ournew barn, farfore sud we ?’ O goodwife, itwad be a great thief that wad rin awa wi’ a barnon his back, I wonder yt let it stand out a’ night;‘ Hute awa, ye daft body, bow can wc get it in,ke awa chapman, ye’re joking me now.’ I thentook a turn round the country for a few weeks,and then came back to be avenged on the19naughty wife and her so wens : it being very darkere I came in, the goodwife did not know me,but made her speech as follows; ‘ Indeed,’saysshe, ‘ ye’se no be here, for there is so many‘thieves and robbers gaun athort the kintry, and‘ oor goodman’s no at hame; art thou honest‘ enough ?’ I can want nothing of my honesty,goodvvife; but did you ever see any people gaunthrough the country, telling they were thieves?‘ Na, a wat weel no,’ said she. Then said I,I’m sure I did not take away your barn on myback the last time I was here. ‘ Yea, lad,’ saidshe, ‘ are you the chapman that cracked sae weel‘ to our goodman? Come in by, ye’se get a nighi‘ o’ the barn yet,’ thanks to you goodwife, an’we sud get nao mair. I then, being preferred tomy old seat, got the sowens to steer, until theywere near ready, when the goodwife ordered thelad to take the old blankets and show me to mybed in the barn; I then gave the sowens the lastturn, and having about the bigness of a nut ofC 1 S—p, dropt it into the pot, then went offto bed in the barn as fast as I could, and madefast both the doors within, lest the bewitchedsowens, out of the pot, should attack me in mysleep. Next morning when I came in, the good-wife began to pray for herself, and all that shehad, saying, 1 It’s Wednesday through a’ the‘ warld, and good be between me and you,‘ chapman, for you are either a witch or a war-‘ lock, or something that’s no canny, for ye‘ witcht our sow ens last night, for they gaed‘ mad, raged out of ihe pot, belling and bizzing‘ like barm, I thought they would run out to‘ the barn to you ; see how they filled up my‘milk tub, and a’ the dishes in the house is20‘ fu’ o’ them.’ Dear goodwife, said I, theywere very good when l left them, though I didnaprie them, and I wished them as much good ofthem as I got, but certainly they’re not witched,but a blessing in them when they are so multiplied.‘ Gae awa,’ cried she in a passion, ‘ye’se no can¬ny, ye’se ne’er be here again.’ I need not valuethat, said 1, for l have nothing to thank you for,but for my dinner supper and breakfast, and for anight of your barn, I'll pay it when I come back;‘ Ay, ay,’ said she, ‘ye needna thank me for whatye didna get;’ that’s no my fault goodwife, said I,prosperity to you and your witcht sowens.The next little town I came to, and the veryfirs-t house that I entered, the wife cried out,‘ Plague on your snout, sir, ye filthy blackguardchapman-like b- h it ye are, the last time yecame here ye gart our Sandy burn the gude banekame it 1 gid a saxpence for in Falkirk, ay did ye,ay, sae did ye een, and said ye wad gie him amtickle clear button to do it:’ Me, said I, I ne¬ver had ado with you a’ the days of my life, anddo not say that Sandy is mine. A wae worththe body, am I saying ye had ado wi’ me, 1 wadnahae ado wi’ the like o’ you, nor I am sure wi’them 1 never saw. But, what about the buttonand the bane kaim, goodwife ? Sannock is nathis the man ? Ay is’t, cried the boy, gie me mybutton, for I burnt the kame, and she paid mefor’t; Gae awa, sir, said I, your mother and youare but mocking me ; it was either you or aneline you, or some other body. O goodwife, Imind who it is now, ’tis just ane like me, whenye see the tane ye see the tither, they ca’ himJ ock Jimoither. A wae worth him, quoth thewife, if I dinna thrapple him for my good bane21iame. !^o^, said I, goodwife, be good, bridleyour passion, and buy a bane kame and colourednapkin, I’ll gie you a ivhaukiri’ penny-worth, willgar you sing in your bed, if I should sell you thetae half and gift you tne tither, and gar you payfor even' inch o’t sweetly or a’ be done. Hech,man, said she, ye’re a hearty fallow, and I haeneed o’ a’ these things, but a bane kame I maunhae; for our Sannock’s head is a’ hotchen, andour John’s is little better, for an’ let them alanebut ae tight days, they grow as grit as grossets.And here I sold a bane kame and a napkin, forshe believed such a douse lad as I had no hand inmake the boy burn the bone comb.The next house I came into, there was a verylittle tailor sitting on a table, like a t—cl on atrencher, with bis legs plet over other, made meimagine he was a sucking three-footed tailor;first I sold him a thimble, and then he wantedneedles which I showed him, one paper afteranother; he looked their eves and trying theirnibs in his sleeve, dropt the ones he thoughtproper on the ground between his feet, where hesat in a dark corner near the fire, thinking I didnot perceive him. O said lie them needles ofyours are not good, man, I’ll not buy any of them,i do not think you need, said I, taking them outof his hand, and lights a candle that was standingnear by; come, said 1, sit about, you thievingdog, till I gather up my needles, then gathers upten of them. Come, said be, I’ll buy twal pen¬ny worth of them frae ye, I hae troubled you saennickle; no, said I, you lousiecl dog, I’ll sell younone, if there’s any on the ground, seek them upand stap them in a beast’s a—se; hut if ye werea man, I would burn you in the fire, though it be22in your own house; but as you are a poor tailor,and neither man nor boy, I’ll do nothing but ex¬pose you for what you are. O dear honest chap¬man, cried his wife, ye mauna do that, and L’segie you cheese and bread. No, no, you thieves,I’m for nothing but vengeance ; no bribes forsuch. So as I was lifting up my pack, there wasa pretty black cat which I spread my napkin over,took the four corners in my hand, carrying heras a bundle, until I came about the middle of thetown, then provoking the slogs to an engagementwith me, so that there came upon me four orfive collies, then I threw the poor tailor’s cat inthe midst of them, and a terrible battle ensuedfor some time, and badrons had certainly died inthe field, had I not interposed, and got her offmortally wounded. The people who saw thebattle alarmed the tailor, and he sallied out likea great champion, with his elwand in his hand.Go back, said I, you lousic dog, or I’ll tell aboutthe needles ; at which word he turned about. Iwent into an alehouse to get some breakfast;there they asked me where I was all night, as itwas usual in that country for chapmen to getmeat where they lodged. 1 told where I was, butwould take none of their meat, because, said I,they seem to me not to be canny, for this morn¬ing they were making ropes of cauld sowens, tocrown up their stacks wi’. Gae avva’, cried thewife, I canna believe it. If you will not believeit, die in your ignorance for me. The wife sentaway her son to see if it was so, but or he cameback, I set out, and travelled down the side of awater called Avon ; and as I was coming past amill dam, there was a big clownish fellow liftinga pitcher of water cut of the dam, so he dipt itQ3full arid set it down on t’ne ground, staring atme he rumbled in himself out of sight o’er headand cars, and as soon as he got out, I said, Yoho, friend, did you get the fish? What an a fish,ye b—h? O, said I, l thought you had seen afish, when you jumped in to make it jump out;What a d 1 sir, are you mocking me? runsround his pitcher, and gives me a kick on thea—e, so that 1 fell designedly on his pitcher,and it tumbled down the bank and went in pieces ;his master and another man looking and laughingat us, the poor fellow complained of me to him,but got no satisfaction.The same evening, as I was going towardsthe town of Linlithgow, I met an old crabbedfellow riding upon an old glaid mare, which healways was thrashing upon with his stick. Good-e’en to you, goodman, said I, are ton going to thebull wi’ your mare ? What do you say, sir, theygang to the bull wi’ a cow, ye brute. O yes,goodman, ye are right, said I, but what do tneyca’ the he-beast that rides on the mare’s back ?They ca’d a cusser, sir; a well then, goode’en toyou, master cusser. He rides a little bit, thenturns back in a rage, saying, I say, sir, your lastwords are waur than your first: he comes then toride me down, but I struck his beast on the face,and in a short turn about, it fell, yet, or I couldget my pack to the ground, he cut me on thehead at the first stroke ; I then getting clear ofthe pack, played it away for some time, till byblows on the face, I made him bleed at bothmouth and nose ; then he cried out. Chapman,we are haith daft, for we’ll kill ourselis and maknaething o’t, we had better agree; with all myheart, said I, and what will ye buy ? nothing buta pair of beard shears, said he, and give me themcheap, so I sold him a pair of B. shears, for threehalfpence, and gave him a needle, then partedgood friends after the battle was over.So I went to Linlithgow that night, where I metwith Drouthy Tom, my sweet and dear compan¬ion, and here we held a most terrible encounterwith the tippenny for twa nights and a day: andthen we set out for Fife, on the hair order, by theway of Torryburn and Culross; and coming up toa parcel of women washing by a water-side, I buysone of their hair; the time I was cutting it off,Tom fell a courting and kissing and clapping oneof them, who was of the haveral sort: what hap¬pened I know not, but she cried out, Ye mis-leard filthy fallow, ye put your hand atween myfeet, mair need another thing sud be there; an illchance on jour picture, cried an auld wife, formany a ane has taen me bjr there in daffin, andI never said a word about it ; ye daft jade, cannaye baud your tongue whan it’s your ain shame thatye speak. Gae awa, cried the lass, he, filthy body,that he is, the last chapman that kissed me had ahorse pack, but he’ll hae naething in his but a wispof strae, some auld brocks, hair-skins, mauhin-skins, ony thing that fills the bag and bears bouk,and yet he wad kiss and handle me, I was madefbr a better fallow; ane o' them came bye ae dayrand selled our Meg twa ell and a quarter o’ linen,to be her bridal sark,;for he had nae mair, andwhen she made it, and put it on, it wadna hideher heeh, hech, hccli, he.FINIS.