Lsf'uQDaniel. O’RoufeWONDERFULVOYAGE TO THE MOON.» ALSO,MASTER AND MAN;fiR, THEAdventures of Billy Mac Daniel.KILMARNOCKPtinted by hj.Cra'-x/ord,1827,BooheUir.DANIEL O’ROURKE’SWonderful Voyage to the Moon.EOPLE may have heard of the renowned ad¬ventures of Daniel O’Rourke, but bow feware there who know that the cause of all his perils,above and below, was neither more nor less thanhis having slept under the walls of the Phooka’stower. I knew the man well : he lived at the bot¬tom of Hungry Hill, just at the right hand sideof the road as you go towards Bantry. An oldman was he at the time that he told me the story,with gray hair- and a red nose; and it was on the25th of June, >813, that I heard it from h'« ownlips, as he sat smoking his pipe under the old pop-iar tree, on as fine an «veni*g as ever shone fromChe sl(?y. I was going to visit die caves in DurseyIsland, having *psnt the morning at Glengarff.‘ I am often axed to tell it, sir,’ said ht, * so tnatthis is not the first time. The master’s s m, yousee, had come from beyond foreign parts in Fiance j c rrrntlcmen used t.' eo, beforeoruugh there was a dinner given to all the peopleon the ground, gentle and simple, highland k>w.and Spain, as younBuonaparte or anyoung gentlemen used to go, beforeany° such was heard of; and surewere so easy and civil, and kept suck rattlinghouses, and thousands of welcomes;—and thereWas no grinding for rent, and few agents; andthere was hardly a tenant on the estate that didnot taste of his landlord’s bounty often and oftenin the year-hut now it's another thing: no mat-iter for that, sir, for I’d better be telling you mystory. 7‘ Well, v/e bad every thing of the best, andplenty of it; and we ate, and we drank, and wedanced, and the young master by the same tokendanced with Pegey Barry, from the Bohereen—a lovely young couple they were, though they areooth low enough now. To make a ‘long storyi.hort, I gon as a body may say, the same thiatras tipsy almost, for l can’t remember ever at a ifno ways, how l left the place: only I did leave itcnat s certain. Well, I thought, for all that, inmyself. I’d just step to Molly Cronohan’s, the fairy-woman, to speak a word about the bracket heiferoat was bewitched : ard so as I was crossing thejttpping-stor.es of the ford of Ballyashenofrb, andivas looking up at the stars and blessing myself—:or why? n was Lady.day—I, missed my foot,md souse 1 fell into the water. ‘ Death alive!'ihought 1, ‘ I’ll be drowned now!’ However, l-egan swimming, swimming, swimming away for|be dear I fe, till at last I got ashc're, somehow or'.her, but never the one of ire can tell how, upondissolute island. r| ‘ 1 wandfred ind wandered about there, withoutmowing where I wandered, until at last I got into■ big bog, 1 he moon was shining as bright asar, or your fair lady’s eyes, sir, (with yotS par-arnHCn!,°nJng ^r,) ?Rd 1 looked ^st andest, and north and south, and every wav andr"*di,, 1 b« w. 4Tfirco.w4Stever find out how I got into it; and mj heaftgrew cold with fear, for sure and certain I wasthat it would be my terrin place. So I sat downupon a stone which, as good luck would have it,was close by me, and I began to scratch my head,and sing the Ullagon—when all of a sudden themoon grew black, and I looked up, and saw some-thing for all the world as if it was moving downbetween me and it, and I could not tell what itwas. Down it came with a pounce, and lookedit me fall in the face; and what was it but aneagle i as fine a one as ever flew from the kingdomof Kerry. So he looked at me in the face, and,says he to me, ‘ Daniel O'Rourke,’ says he, ‘ howdo you do J* * Very well, I thank you, sir,’ says,I: ‘ I hope you’re well;’ wondering out of mysenses all the time how an eagle came to speak likea Christian. ‘ What brings you here, Dan ?’ say*he. * Nothing at all, sir,’ says 1: ‘ only 1 wishI was safe home again.’ * Ts it out of the islandyou want to go, Dan :’ says be. ‘ ’Tts. sir,’ saysiI: so I up and told him how I had taken a droptoo much, and fel’ into the water; how I swairto the island; and how I got into the bog and didnot know my way out of it. * Dan,’ says he, afteMa minute’s thought, • though it is very impropehfor you to get drunk on Lady-day, yet as you araa decen; sober, man, who ’tends mass well, amnever flings stones ar me or mine, nor cries ouafter us in the fields—my life for yours,’ says he* so get up on my back, and grip me well for feayou’d fall off, and I’ll fly you out of the bog.’—I am afraid, says I, yi.ur honour’s making gam'®f me; for who ever heard of riding a horsebacan an eagle before ? ’Pon the honour of a gentleman, says fie, putting his right foot on his breast£ am quite in earnest: and so now either take m5offer or starve in the bog—besides, I see that yearweight is sinking the stone.It was true enough as he said, for I found thestone every minute going from under me. I had; no choice ; so thinks I to myself, faint heart neverwon fair lady, and this is fair persuatiance :-~lthank your honour, says I, for the loan of your: civility ; and I’ll take your kind offer. I there,fore mounted upon the back of the eagle, and heldhim tight enough by the throat, and up he flewin the air like a lark. Little 1 knew the trick he. was going to serve me. Up—up—up—God knowshow far up he flew. Why, then, said I to him—-thinking he did not know the right road homa•—very civilly, because why?—I was in his power: entirely j—sir, says I, please your honour’s glory,i and with humble submission to yoar better judg->1 merit, if you’d fly down a bit, you’re now justi over my cabin, and I could be put down there,i and many thanks to your worship,Arrab, Dan, said he, do you think me a fool ?I Look down in the next field, and don’t you see; two men and a gun! By my word it would be1 no joke to be shot this way, to oblige a drunken■ blackguard that I picked up off a ccu/rJ stone in a:bog. Bother you, said I to myself, but 1 did notjj speak out, for where was the use ? Well, sir, up:he kept, flying, flying, and I asking him every4 minute to fly down, and all to no use. Where in4 the world are you going, sir ! says I to him—1 Hold your tongue, Dan, says he : mind your own: business, and don’t be interfering with the businessof other people.—Faith, this is my business, I think,a says I. Be quiet, Dan, says he; so i said nofj more.At last'where should we come to, but to theiljnoou itself. Now you can’t see it from this* bptGthere is, or there was in my time, a reaping-hook inicking out of the side of the moon, this way,(drawing the figure on the ground with the end of Ihis stick.)Dan, said the eagle, I’m tired with this longfly ; I had no notion ’twas so far. And my lord,sir, said I, who in the world axed you to fly so far—was it I ? did not I beg, and pray, and beseechyou to stop half an hour ago ? There’s no usetalking, Dan, said he: I’m tired bad enough, soyou must get off, and sit down on the moon Until1 rest myself. , Is it sit down on the moon ? sale!I; is it upon that little round thing, then ? why,then, sure I’d fall off in a minute, and be kilt andsplit, and smashed all to bits: you are a vile de¬ceiver,—so you are. Not at all, Dan, jjg.you can catch fast hold of the rez-'^g.^ooi, that'isticking out of the side o{ the moon, and ’twillkeep you up. I wo;, t, then, said I. May be not,said he, quite tjuiet. If you don’t, my man, lshall just give you a shake, and one slap of mywing, and send you down to the ground, whereevery bone in your body will be smashed as smallas a drop of dew on a cabbage.leaf in the morning.Why, then, I’m in a fine way, said I to myself,ever to hare come along with the likes q£ you; andso giving him a hearty curse in Irish, for fear he’dknow what I said, I got off his back v/ith a heavyheart, took a hold of the reaping-hook, and satdown upon the moon, and a mighty cold seat itwas, I can tell you that.When he had me there fairly landed, he turnedabout on me, and said, Good morning to you,Daniel O’Rourke, said he: I thiuk I’ve nickedyou fairly now. You robbed my nest last yea*(’twas true enough for him, but how he found itout is hard to say,) and in return you are freely7welcome to cool your hfiels dangling upon themoon like a ccckthrow.Is that all,*and is this the way you leave me,you brute, you? &ays I. You ugly unnatural baste,and is this the way y»ou serve me at last ? Badluck to yourself, with your hooked nose, and toall your breed, you blackguard, ’ Fwas all to nomanner of use: Ire spread out his great big wings,burst out a laughing, and flew away like light¬ning. I bawled after him to stop - but 1 mighthave called and bawled t«r ever, without his mind-i ing me. Away he went, and- I never saw him: from that day to this—sorrow fly away with him!1 You may be sure I was in a disconsolate condition,and kept roaring cut for the bare grief, when allonce a door opened right in the middle of themoon, creaking on its hinges as if it had not beenopened for a month before. 1 suppose they neverthought of greasing ’em, and out there walks—\jl:o do you think but the man in the moon him¬self? I knew' him by his bash.Good morrow to you, Daniel O’Rourke, saidI he: How do you doi Veiy well, thank yourI honour, said I. I hope your honour’s well 1 What brought you here, Dan ? said he. So I toldI him how I was a little overtaken in liquor at thei master’s, and how I was cast on a dissolute island,i and how I lost my way in the beg, and how the1 thief of an eagle promised to fly me out of it, andI how instead of that he had fled *<e up to the moon.Dan, said the man in the moon, taking a pinch) of snuff when I was done, you must not stay hero,1 Indeed, sir, says I, ’tis much against my will I’mI here at p.ll; but how am 1 to go back ? That’s; your business, said he, Dan: mine is to tell youI that here you must not stay, so be off in less thanI uo time, i’m doing no harjn, says I, only holding.8ea hard by the reapin^.hook, lest I fall off. That'*vrhat you must not do, Dan, says l^e. Pray, sir,fays 1, may I ask how many you are in family,that you would not give a poor traveller lodging:I'm sure ’tisnot so often yofl’re troubled with stran¬gers coming to see you, for ’tis a long way, I’mby myself, Dan, says he; but you'd better let gotoe reaping*faook. Faith, and with your leave,says I, I'll not let go the grip, and the more youbids me, the more I won’t let go ;—so I will.—You bad better, Dan, says he again. Why, then,my little fellow, says I, taking the whole weight©f him with my eye from,head to foot, there aretwo words to that bargain; and I'll not budge,but you may if you like. We’ll see how that isto be, says he j and back he went, giving the doersuch a great bang after him, (for it was plain hewas huffed,) that I thought the mooa and allwould fall down with it.Well, l was preparing myself to try strengthwith him, when back again he comes, with thekitchen cleaver in his hand, and without saying aword, he gives two bangs to the handle of thereaping-hook that was keeping me up, and whap!it came in two. Good morning to you, Dan, saysthe spiteful little old blackguard, when he saw mecleanly falling down with a bit of the handle inmy hand : I thank you for your visit, and lairweather after you, Daniel. I had not time tomake any answer to him, for I was tumbling overand ever, and rolling and rolling at the rate of afox-hunt. Gad help me, says I, but this is a pret¬ty pickle for a decent m^a to be seen in at this.sime of night: I am now sold fairly. The wordwas not out ol my mouth, when whiz ! what shouldfly by close to my ear but a flock of wild geese}all the way trom my own bog of Balfyasheenough,Islse how should they know mt ? the Gala gsat’er^-,,who was their general, turning about his head,icried out to me. Is that you, Dan ? The same,isaid I, no! a bu daunted now at what be said, iotr1 was by this time used to all kinds of bedevilment,.:and, beside*, I knew him of eruld. Good morrowito you, says he. Daniel O’Rourke r how are you'in health this morning? Very well, sir, says I,I thank vou kindly, drawing my breath, for I wasunightdy in want of some. I hope your honour’sI the same. 1 think ’tis falling you are, Daniel.;says ^e. You may say that, tir, snys I. Andiwhere are you going all the way so fast? said the;gander. So I told him how l had taken the drop,land how I came on the island, end how I lost mv• way in the bog, and how the thief of an eagle flewi me up to the moon, and how the man in the mooniturned me out. Dan, said he, I’ll save you: puttout your hand and catch me by the leg, and I’llI fly you heme. Sweet is your hand in a pitcher ofihoney, my jewel, says 1, though ail the time f! thought in myself that I don’t much trust you;ibut there was no help, so 1 caught the gander by[the leg, and away I and the other geese flew afterihim as fast as hops.We flews and we flew, and we flewr, until w»came right over the wide ocean. I knew it well,ifor I saw Cape Clear to my right band, stickingi Tip out of the water. Ah ! my lord, said l to thej goose, for l thought it best to keep a cw :1 tonguei in ray head anyway, fly to land if you please.It is impossible, you see, Dan, said he, for a while,(because you see we are going to Arabia. To! Arabia ! said I; that’s surely some place in for¬eign parts, far away. Oh ! Mr. Goose : why then,’to he sure, I’m a man to be pitied among you i Whist, whist, you fool, said he, hold your tongue<!0E fell you Arabia is a very decent sort ef p’ace, adlike Vvest Carbery as one epe is like another, on!.there is a little more s<nd there..nKt as we were talking, a ship hcwe in si?htscprldinp' "so beautiful before the wind : Vh ! thi n*ir. said f. will you drop me on the ship if vr>uplease? We ere rot fair over it, said he. Weare, said 7. We are not, said : If I droppedyou now, would tro splash into the seawould not, says I: I know hotter than that, forit is just clean under us, so let me drop now atonce.If you must, you must, said he. There takeyour own way ; and he opened his claw, and fauhhe was righf-'-sure eneujrh 1 came down plum piinto the very bottom of the salt sea! Down to thevery bottom I went, and I pave myself up thenfor ev?r, when a wha?e walked up to me, scratch*inp himself after his night’s slew, and looked mefull in the face, and never the word did he fay;but lifting up his tail, he splashed me all over againwith the r.cld salt water, till there wasn’t a drystitch upon my whole carcass s md I heard seme,bpdy saying—’twas a voice I knew too—Get up,you drunken brute, rff of that: and with that Iwoke up, and there was Judy with a tub full ofwater, which she was splashing all over me;—lor, rest her soul! though she was a good wife,she never could bear to see me in drink, and hada bitter hand of her own.Get up, said she again: and of all places in theparish, wculd no place sarvt your turn to lie downupon but under the" cult walls of Carrigaphocka ?an uneasy resting I am sure you had of it. And•sute enough I had; for 1 was_fairly bothered outof my senses with eagles, and men of the noons,and flying gandeis; and whales, driving me through11>ogs, and np to the moon, and down to the b«t*om of the great ocean. If I wa» in drink tenimes over, long would it be before I’d lie down inhe tame spot again, 1 knew that).MASTER AND MAN;os,\The Adventures of Billy Mac Daniel.BILLY MAC DANIEL was once as likely atyoung man as ever shook his brogue at a patron/:emptied a quart, or handled a shillelagh ; fearingifoi nothing but the want of drink; caring for no¬thing but who should pay for it; and thinking ofmathing but how to make fun over it; drunk orisober, a word and a blow was ever the way withiBilly Mac Daniel; and a mighty easy way it is ofeither getting into or of ending a dispute. Morei is the pity that, through the means of his thinking,land fearing; and caring for nothing, thfs same: Billy Mac Daniel fell into bad company ; for surelyI the good people are the worst of all company anyi one could come across.It so happened that Billy was going home one: clear frosty night not long after Christmas; thei muon was round and bright.; but although it wasa4 fin* * heart entile! wrsh frr, he feWpinched with the cold Br my werd, ebatteret iBti!y* a drnp of prod Itquor w< uld be no bao;tbmg fo !r*ep a man’s son} Irt m freezing in him :iand I wish I had a full measure of the best.Never with it twice, Billy, said a littfe man ir4a three-cornered hat, bonnd all about with goleflace, and with great silver buckles in bis shoes, sobig that it was a wonder how he could carry them*and he held out a glass as big as himself, fillet}with as good liquor, as ever eye looked on or lifttasted.Success, my little fellow', said Billy Mac Daniel)nothing daunted, though well he knew the little!man to belong to the good people ; here’s yourhealth, any way, and thank yon kindly: no mattter who.pays for the drink; and he took the glasuand drained it to the very bottom, without eventaking a second breath to it.Success, said the little man ; and you're heartilywelcome, Billy; but don’t think to cheat roe anyou have done others,~out with your purse andpay me like a gentle.onan.Is it I pay yon? said Billy; could I not just:take yon up and put you in my pocket as easily a$:a blackberry ?Billy Mac Daniel, said the little man, gettingvery angry, you ihall be my servant for seven;years and a day, and that is the way I will bepaid ; so make ready to follow me.When Billy heard this, he began to be very sorryfor having used such bold words towards the littleman ; and he felt himself, yet could not tell how,obliged to follow the liute man the live-long nightabout the country, up and down, and ever hedgeand ditch, and thiough beg and brake without anyrest.ISWhen nsornlr^ be?an to dawn, the little manturned round to him and said, You may now gnhome, BiHy, bu’ on your pifril don’t tail to/mecme in tHe Tort field to-night; or f you do, it maybe the worse for yau in ihe long run. If I findyou a good serrant, you will find me an ;ndulgentmaster.Home wertt Billy Mae Daniel; and though hewas tired and weary enough, never a wink of sleepcould he get for thinking of the little man ; but hewas afraid not to do his bidding, so up he got inthe evening, and away he went to the Fort-field.He was not long there before the little man cametowards him and said, Billy, I want to go a longj journey to night; so saddle one of my horses and| you may saddle nrother for yourself, as you areI to go along with me, aud may be tired after yourI walk last night.Billy thought this very considerate of his mas-: ter, and thanked him accordingly: But, said he,if I may bo so bold, sir, I should ask which is thel way to your stable, for never a thing do I see hut: the fort here, and the old thcrn-tree in the corneri of the field, and the stream running at the bdttom: of the hill, with the bit of bog over against us.Ask no qucs;ions, Billy, said the little man, but1 go over to that bit of bog, and bring me two ofi the strongest rushes you aan find.Billy did accordingly, wondering what the little■f man would be at; and he picked out two of theI; stoutest rushes he could find, with a little bunchliaf brown blossom stuck at the side of each, rttid[i brought them back to his master.Get up, Billy, said the lidle man, taking one oflithe rushes from him and striding across it.Where shall I get up, please your honour? said‘Billy. .14Why, upon horseback, like me, to be sure, *aHthe little man.Is it after making a fool «f me you'd be, saidBilly, bidding me get a horse.back upon that bitof a rush > May be you want to persuade me thatthe rush I pulled bat while ago out of the bog overthere is a horse ?Up! up! and no words, said the little man,looking very angry ; the best horse you ever rodewas but a fool to it So Billy, thinking all thiswas in joke, and fearing to vex his master, strad¬dled across the rush : Borram ! Borram ! Borram !«ned the little man three times, (which, in Eng¬lish, means to become great,) and Billy did thesame after him: presently the rushes swelled upinto fine horses, and away the; went full speed;but Billy, who had put the rush between his legs,without much minding how he did it, found him-self sitting on horseback the wrong way, which,was rather awkward, wbh his face to the horse’stail; and so quickly had his steed started off withhim, that he had no power to turn round, andthere was therefore nothing for it but to hold onby the tail.At last they came to their journey’s end, andstopped at the gate of a fine house: Now, Billy,said the little man, do as,you see me do, and fol¬low me close; but as you do not know your horse’shead from his tail, mind that your own head doesnot spia round until you can’t tell whether you arestanding on it or on your heels: for remember that®id liquor, though able to make a cat speak, oanmake a man dumb.The little man then said some queer kind ofwords, out of which Billy could make no mean¬ing ; but he contrived to say them after him for allfliat; and in they both went through the key-hole ■15“laf the door, and through one Veyhole after ano.(tier, tiftil they got into the vrtne-cellar, which.was well stored with all kinds of wine.The li'tle man fell to drinking as hard as he■could, and Billy, noway distking the example, did;tbr same. The best of masteis are you, surely,said Billv to him : no matter who is the next; andjwt 11 pleased v ill I be with your service if you con-rtirue to gi^e me plenty to drink.I have made no bargain with you, said the littleman, and will make none; but up and follow me.1A way they went, through key-hole after key-hole;land each mounting upon the rush which he left atjthe hall door, scampered off, kicking the cloudsibetbre them like snow halls, as soon as the words,IBorrant, Borram, Borram, had passed their lips.When they came back to the Fort field, the little:man dismissed Billy, bidding him to be there the•next night at the same hour. Thus did they go ^ten, night after night, shaping their course on«inight here, and another right there—sometimesmorth, and sometimes east, and sometimes south,mntil there was not a gentleman’s wine-cellar in allilreland they had not visited, and could tell theflavour of every wine in it as well—aye, better than(the butler himself.One night when Billy Mac Daniel met the littleiman as usual in the Fort-field, and was going to(the bog to fetch the horses tor their journey, his(master said to hiqp, Billy, 1 shall want anotherihorse to-night, for may be wa may bring back(more company with us than we take. So Billy,who now knew better than to question any orderigiven to him by his master, brought a third tush,(much wondering who it might be that would-Travel back in the company, a'.,d whether ha wasabout t® have a fellow servant. If 1 have, thought16Billy, he shall go and fetch the horses from thebog every night; for I don't see why I am not,every inch of me, as good a gentleman as mymaster.Well, away they went, Billy leading the thirdhorse, and never stopped until they came to a snugfa Tmer's houSe in the county Limerick, close un¬der the old castle of Oarrigogur.niel, that was built,they say, by the great Brian Boru. Within thehouse there was great carousing going forward,and the little man stopped outside for some timeto listen ; then turning round all of a sudden, said,Billy, I will be a thousand years old to-morrow 1God bless us, sir, said Billy, will you ?Don’t say these words again, Billy, said thelittle man, or you will be my ruin for ever—Now,Billy, as I will be a thousand years in the worldto-morrow, [ think it is full time for me to getmarried.I think so too, without any kind of doubt at all,said Billy, if ever you mean to marry.And to that purpose, said the little man, haveI come all the way to Carrigogunniel; for in thishouse, this very night, is young Darby Rdey go¬ing to be married to Bridget Rooney ; and as sheis a tall and comely girl, and has come of decentpeople, I think of marrying her myself, and tak¬ing her oft with me- •And what will Darby Riley say to that f saidBilly.Silence ! said the little man, putting on a mightysevere look : I did not bring you here with me toask questions ; and without holding further argu¬ment, he began saying the queer words,,which hadthe power of passing him through the key-hole asfree as air, and which Bdly thought himself mighty■ctaver to be able to say after17In they both went; and for the better viewinge company, the little man perched himself upnimbly as a cock-sparrow -upon one of the big:ams which went across the house over all theirads, and Billy did the same upon another facingm; but not being much accustomed to roostingsuch a place, his legs hung down as untidy aslay be, and it was quite clear be had not taken,ittern after the way in which the little man had •indled himself up together. If the little manid been a tailor all his life, he could not have satore contentedly upon his haunches.There they were, both master and man, lookingrwn upon the fun that was going forward—andader them were the priest and piper—and the fa-er of Darby Riley, with Darby’s two brothersiid his uncle’s son—and there were both the fatherhd the mother of Bridget Rooney, and proudnough the old couple vsere that night of their(.lighter, as good right they had—and her fouri,ters with bran new ribbons in their ^ps» and■r three brothers all looking as clean and clever■ any three boys in Munster—and there werencles and aunts, and gossips and cousins enoughi sides to make a full house of it—and plenty wastere to eat and drink on the table for every one ,i. them, if they had been double the number.1 Now it happened, just as Mrs. R.ooney had!lped his reverence to t'e first cut of the pig’sad which was placed before her, beautifullyIstered up with white saveys, that the bride gavesneeze w’hich made eveiy one at table start, butIn a soul said ‘ God bless us.’ All thinking thate priest would have done so, as he ought if heid done his duty, no one wished to take the wordit of his mouth, which unfortunately was pre-i::cupied with pig’s head and greens. And alterISa moment’s pause, the fun and merriment of thtibridal feast went on without the pious benediction,Of this circumstance both Billy and his masterwere no inattentive spectators from their exalted;stations Ha! exclaimed the little man, throw¬ing one leg from under him with a joyous flourishand his eye twinkled with a strange light, whilsthis eyebrows became elevated into the curvature olGothic arches—Ha! said he, leering down at thtbnde. and then up at Billy, I have half ot hernow, surely. Let her sneeze but twice more. airii.|she is mine, in spite of priest, mass-book anc.;Darby Riley.Again the fair Bridget sneezed ; but it was sngently, and she blushed so much, that few except:the little man took, or seemed to take, any notice ;iand no one thought of saying, ‘ God bless us,'l^Uy all this time regarded the poor girl with amost; ueful expression of countenance; for he couldnot help thinking what a terrible thing <t was fona nice yo^rrg girl of niaeteen, with large blue eyes,1transparent skin, and dimpled cheeks, suffused withhealth .-nd joy, to be obliged to marry an uglylittle bit of a man, who was a thousand years old,;barring a day.At this critical moment the bride gave a third!sneeze, and Billy roared out with all his might*!4 God save us !’ Whether this exclamation resulted!from his soliloquy, or from the mere force of habitphe never could tell exactly himself; but no soonerwrs it uttered, than the little man, his face glow¬ing with rage and disappointment, sprung from,the beam on which he had perched himself, and'-shriekiag out in the shrill voice of a cracked bag-tpipe, I discharge you my service, Billy Mac DaiKiel—take that for your wages, gave poor Billy a!most furious kick ia the back, which sent ids uo-:19fortunate servant sprawling upon his face and handsright in the middle of the supper table.If Billy was astonished, how much more so waslerery one of the company into which he was thrownwith so little ceremony: but when they heard hisJtory, Father Cooney laid down his knife and fork,and married the young couple out of hand withall speed; and Billy Mac Daniel danc'd the RinkaU**, bedding, and plenty did he drink at it too,twhich was \vhat be thought more pf than dancingstThis mode of travelling through the air uponcrushes is of common occurrence in fairy history;ft—a straw, a blade of grass, a fern, or cabbages'talk, are equally well adopted for steeds. The•/writer has been told of many men who were oblig¬ed, like Billy Mac Daniel, to give way and keepjnompany with the good people ; to use the wordsbf the narrator, going far and near with them,,:.!ay and night—to London one night, and tosAmerica the next; andathe only horses they ^ad*13use of for these great journeys were cabbage- Humps in the form of natural horses.. At Dundaniel, a village tw > miles from Cork,n a pleasant outlet, called Blackrock, these is nowU Dec. 1814,) living a gardener, named Crowley,t!vho is considered by h:s neighbours as under fairyicontrol, and is suffering from v/hat they term ‘ theailing sicknessresulting from the fatigue attend-)mt on the journeys which he is compelled to take,i ’ring forced to travel night after night with the'jood people on one of his own cabbage mtumps^The Witch of Fife furnishes an apt iilustratjop.20The first leet night, quhan the new moon set,Quhan all was douffe and mirk,We saddled our nalgies wi’ the moon-fern leif,And rode fra Kilmerrin kirk.Some horses wife of the brutne<cow fratnit,And some of the gretne bay tree;But mine was made of ane humleke schaw,And a stout stallion was he.*This ballad cf Mr. Hogg’s appears to be foundeton the traditional anecdote recorded of one of tinDufFus family, who by mentis of the phrase ‘ Hors»and Hattock,’ equivalent i:i effect to the word' Borram, Borrara, Borram,’ joined company wit!the fairies on a trip, to examine the king of France’:wine-cellar, where, having drunk too freely, he felasleep, and was so found the next day, with a silveicup in his hand. The sequel informs us, that orbeing brought before the king, his majesty no*>nly most graciously pardoned the offender, budismissed him with the wine-cup as a present, whiclis said to be still preserved in ike family.A similar tradition is very common in Ireland•particularly in the county Galway, and is evidentlythe basis on which Billy frlas Daniel’s adventurehas been constructed.In every tiny dingle there was a hundred of wry-mouthed gobblins.— So says Z). ai Gwilym, in hisaddress to the Mist> 1310.* These fairies are often inclined to play trickswith the less pure inhabitants of the mountains,who hazard to ramble in misty weather; they wilseize hold of any forlorn traveller they meet withand propose to give him a lift through the air, ancthey offer the choice of one out of three courses,that is, he may bt ca- ■ed below wind, above wind,I21«• mid wind. Those who are used to these jour*leys take care to choose the middle course; for,.hould any one unused to such things choose to(»o aboYe wind, he will be borne so high as to de-► ipair of ever alighting again on the earth; andany ignorant wight who prefers to be carried be-ow wind is dragged through all the bramb’es andiriers that they can find. A lawyer with a brokenrose, and otherwise disfigured, continues the learneddoctor, * used to relate in my hearing, when a boy,pf such having been his lot, and of which he boretthe marks, and was consequently called * T TrtvyrCor ‘ the Nosy/ This, 1 remember, had such anIsffect upon me, that if I walked in a mist, I tooki.good care to walk on the grass, in case there should:be need to catch hold of a blade of it, which theifairies had not the power to break,b Such being the pranks of Welsh fairies, it is not! to be wondered at that the valiant Sir John Falstaffmhould feel so particularly dismayed at discoveringone in company with the wickedly disposed elvesof Hernes Oik • (Merry Wives of Windsor, Act,V Scene 5 ) ‘ Heavens defend me, exclaims theknight, from that WtUb fairy, lest he transformI me into a piece of cheese !j The young couple, whose happiness wauld'doubtless have been destroyed' by the little ma«but for Billy Mac Daniel’s pious exclamation, arenprobably the identical pair whose c urtship is sti particularly deiailed in a popular song, of whichnthe annexed verse may serve as a specimen.‘ Young Darby Riley,He approached me slyly.And with a smile heUnto me erkd,22Sweet Bridget Rooney,Here’s Father Cooney,And very soon ht’ll make you my bride.The Rinka (correctly written Rinceadh) whicfcBilly, to whom they w«re so much indebted, danc|ed at their wedding, is the national dance of Ire iland; fcr a particular account of which the readei;is referred to the conclusion of Mr. Walker’s His¬torical Essay on the Irish Bcrds.Carrigogunniel Castle is an extensive rain, fiveor six miles west of the city of Limerick :—it maybe described by the words of the old poet, ThomasChurchyard—A fort of strength, a strong and stately hold,It was at first though now it is full old.On rock alone full farre from other mountIt stands, which shows it was of jjreat account.During the las* siege of Limerick, this castlewas garrisoned by the adherents of James II. butwas surrendered by them withont defence, although!it was so tenable a position that the besiegers deem¬ed it expedient to blow it up. The violent effect:of the explosion is still evidenf in the delapidatedremains of Carrigogunniel. Massive fragments ofthe walls and towers lie scattered around in a con¬fusion not unpiciuresque ; and it is matter of somedifficulty to trace the original plan. A view ofCarngogunniel is given in the second volume ofGrose’s Antiquities of Ireland.Cormac and Mary,SHE is not dead-*—she has no grave—She lives beneath Lough Comb's water ;nd in the murmur of each waveMe thinks I catch the songs I taught her.”bus many an evening on the siioreSat Cormac raving wi'd and k»wiy ;ill idly *iuuering o’er and o’er,“ She lives, detain’d by spells unholy.iDeath claims her not, too fair for earth,Her spirit lives—alien of heaven ;or will it know a second birth'When sinful mortals are forgiven !Cold is this rock—the wind comes chill,(And mis:s the gloomy waters cover;it oh ! her soul is colder stul—To lose her God—to leave hear lover!”e lake was in profound repose,Yet one white wave came gently curling,,nd as it reach’d the shore, aroseDim figures—banners gay unfurling.©ward they move, an airy crowd :Through each thin form a moonlight ray shonehile spear and heljr, in pageant proud.Appear in liquid undulation.24Bright barbed »teals curvetting treadTheir trackless way with antic capers;And curtain clouds hang overhead,Festoon'd by rainbow-colour’d vapeurs.• *And when a breath of air w«uld stirThat drapery of Heaven’s own wreathing,Light wings of primsy gassamerjust moved and sparkled to the breathing.Nor wanting was the choral song, ,Swelling in silv’ry chimes of sweetness;To sound of which this subtile throngAdvanced in playful grace and fleetness.With music’s strain, all came a»d wentUpon poor Cormac’s doubting vision;Now rising in wild merriment,-Now softly lading in derision.“ Christ, save her soul,” he boldly cried;And when that blessed name was spoken.Fierce yells and fiendish shrieks replied,And vanished all,—tire spell was broken.And now on Corrib’s lonely shore,Freed by his word Irom power of faery,T© life, to lore, restored once more,Young Cormac welcomes back his Mary,FINIS.