STORY OFTHEBITTER WEDDING.*;<mcmw uaiTiaTHEBITTER WEDDING.One fine summer morning—it was manyhundred years ago—young Berthold set out! with a very heavy heart from his Alpine hutj,j with a view of reaching in the evening thei beautiful valley of Siebenthal, where stoodjhis native village, and where he designed toShe an unknown and silent guest at the danc¬ing and festivity of certain merry makers.i Ah, heavens,’ sighed he, £ it will be ali bitter wedding ! Had I died last spring itshad been better with me now.’£ Fiddle faddle!’ exclaimed a snarling(voice from the road side. £ Fiddle faddle !W'here master Almerich touches his strings,I there goes it merrily—there is the hurlymrly, dirling the bottoms out of the tubs andjitchers ! Good morning, my child ! Come,sheer up my hearty, and let us trudge on-ogether in good neighbourship.’The young herdsman had stopped whenle heard such a frog-croak of a voice, andow he could not speak for laughing. An'1-looking- dwarfish figure mounted uponone leg and a half, and propped upon acrutch, witli a nose as long as one’s thumb,came hobbling up quite out of breath, andmaking half-a-dozen v. ry faces, from a lootpath on the left side of the road. Behindhim he trailed an enormous fiddle, on whichlay a large wallet—appurtenances whichseemed to be attached to such a little oddfigure by way of ballast, lest the rush of thewind down the valley should svreep it away.4 Good morning !’ Berthold at lastroared out, c you are a merry fellow, Masterfiddler, and will prove heart’s ease to me to¬day. In spite of my misfortunes I could nothelp laughing at the sight of you and yourhugeous fiddle. Pray take it not amiss; alaugh has been a rare thing with me formany a day.’‘ Has it indeed,’ rejoined the dwarf; ‘ andyet so young ! Perhaps you are heart-sick,my son ?’i Yes, if you choose to call it so,’ repliedthe herdsman. i Here in our mountains andvalleys, you will find a great many clouts offellow's who will be fancying’ themselves inlove, while they are all the time eating,drinking, and sleeping, as sound as anymarmot, and in one year’s time can as easily i!pass from Margaret to Rosomund, as I from jthis town to the other. That is all a mock¬ery ; I would much rather die than forget 1I Siegeland,—though for me all rest and joyI are for ever vanished.’1 Aye, aye,’ replied Master Almerich, 11i thought you were going to the dance, myI hearty,—I heard you crying out a bitteri wedding, and I thought to myself, 4 Aha,j he does not get the right one.’1 And that’s true enough,’ replied Ber-thold; 1 he does not get the right one,—thatII Hildebrand! I will tell you the whole matter,h'Master Almerich, as you seem to be goingI the same way, if I guess right.’4 Ah, yes, good heavens!’ sighed theddwarf: i surely, surely, I would be going toilthe wedding, if I had only got a pair of stoutv- legs, but look you here, my dear child, whata miserable stump is this for crawling downi the mountain !—I am asthmatic too, and my'/goitre has been enlarging these last fiftyiyears,—and that wallet has galled my backiBsore all yesterday in climbing over the roughJhills—. Heaven knows when I shall get to•nthe wedding! There was such a talking> about it on the other side of the mountain,that, thought I to myself, I will away tothe wedding also and make some money ;so I took my fiddle and began to crawl up9 the ascent,—yesterday I became quite ex¬hausted—and now I must lay me down hereby the side of the road and submit to fate.)|Tell me all about the wedding when you re-6turn, child—if the wolves have not swallowedor hunger killed me before that time.’With these words the dwarf, apparentlyexhausted, sunk down with a deep and mel¬ancholy sigh on the nearest stone, threw hisbundle on the grass, and stretched out hisbony hand as if to take a last farewell ofyoung' Berthold, who stood leaning upon hisstall', and gazing upon the fiddler, quite un¬able to comprehend what ailed him.i Master,’ began the herdsman, {howdrooping! You have left all your gayspirits at home! Although it is a wearyjourney for me as well as you, 1 will yetendeavour to carry your wallet and fiddle,so I may enjoy your company on the road.You must really hear what presses upon mysoul,—perhaps I may obtain some relief inspeaking it out, and you will have some pithyword of comfort for me.The dwarf accepted the kind offer andquickly transferred his wallet and fiddle tothe stout shoulders of the herdsman ; then 1taking his crutch, he whistled a merry tune,and trudged gaily on by the side of Berthold. 1‘ It is a lono- story this wedding,’ begunthe herdsman ; ‘but I will be as brief as 1possible, for it still grieves me to the heartwhen 1 think about it, and whoever can ;understand it at all, understands it soon ; asfor me my sufferings will never be at anI7shouldtalk the whole day) end, though»liabout it.‘ In the village there, below us, old) Bernhard has a pretty sweet girl of adaughter, Siegelind; he has lived for manyyears, and his wife Gertrude with him, in anice little cottage by the stream, where theroad strikes off into the wood. Their tradejis to make wooden spoons for the herdsmen,by which, and the help of a gnat and a coupleof sheep, they gain their livelihood.’Last winter, having got some ashenspoons and cups nicely cut, I thought with'myself, now, as my father is getting old,i land sends me with the cattle to the mountains|in spring, if I only behave there as becomes|a herdsman, what is there to prevent mecoming down in autumn and marryingSiegelind ?4 Ah, Master Almerich, my words do poorjustice to my heart; my feelings always getdie start of them, and reason comes limpingafter!41 beheld Siegelind, you see, movingactively about,—wearing a merry face lateand early,—all goodness and discretion fromtop to toe, and pretty too,—overflowing withgay spirits and merry songs without number •all this my eye, my ear, and my heart drunkin smoothly,—she was satisfied, and the oldpeople too,—so in summer I was to go to the8mountains, and at harvest-home to the wed¬ding, and in the meantime she gave me:this waistcoat to wear on the hills in remem¬brance of her.4 Old Bernhard went to the Ibrest in springto choose the finest stems, and to provide us.with nice furniture against the wedding.4 So one morning as he was ascending the;mountains through those ravines where thereare some marvellously fine trees, a little man,in an odd sort of dress, hastened to meet him,screaming violently and beckoning and call¬ing him so earnestly that he could not butgo with him. They soon reached a barn,where he found the strang-er’s wife lying sickand in extremity. Her he relieved andcured; but for me—bride, peace, and happi¬ness, were lost from that hour.’4 Ah, good heavens!’ exclaimed Almerich;4 you are talking bravely, whilst I amalmost starving—hop, hop, hop—we aretrudging on, and my stomach is as emptyas a bag-pipe ! Yesterday evening-—no¬thing ; this morning—nothing'! Oh thatbrave wedding-dance; the fiddle runs off, ,and Master Almerich is starving here!’4 Now, now, the deuce, then,’ bawled theherdsman, 4 what have you got in this cursedwallet? Here am I toiling on with thisplagued bag, rubbing the very skin ofi myshoulders,—if there is not at least a little ham0and cheese and fresh bread in it, why shouldI he smothered under such a bundle of raps f{Softly, softly, iny son,’ replied thefiddler, 1 there are treasures in that wallet,an old barret cap of Siegefried, and an oldsword belt of Dieterich, and a couple of oldleathern soles of Ylsan, child!—These areno every-day concerns, my hearty ! Tlu \are all estimable jewels to him who under¬stands the thing; they are worth a wTholemountain of sweet wine, and seven acres otthick golden wheat, to him who knows theirvalue.’‘ It may be so,’ said the herdsman, ‘ I onlywish we had a fiwv cups of milk in the placeof your treasures; but if it is so with yourstomach, my good master, look you, here isa mouthful of goatmilk cheese, I meant toserve me for the night, but never mind, I amlittle disposed to eat.’Berthold now produced his provisions, andAlmerich devoured them as greedily as if hemeant to swallow the herdsman after themby way of dessert. He then wiped his mouth,leaped briskly up, was again in good spirits,and stumped away before the herdsman asfreshly as if nothing had ailed him. Allthis, however, seemed very odd to Berthold,and when he again felt the annoyance of thewallet, he drew a sigh so deep that it echoeoback from the neighbouring rocks.10’Lack a day!’ cried Airnerieh again,& the poor lad has lost his bride and his peaceof heart; I have been so concerned aboutfilm that I could not eat a bit ?4 That fellow could devour the Stackhorn .thought Berthold with some indignation.4 The club foot is not in his right senses, Ibelieve!’4 It was really to bad/ began he, resum¬ing his story. 4 The dwarf in the barnreturned a profusion of thanks to old Bern-hard, and said, 41 am a foreign miner,and have lost the road with my .good wife ;so I have nothing to reward you for yourkind services, save a little bit of cheese and afew draughts of wine, take that, and re¬member the poor fellow who gave you whatbe could, and will pray that Heaven mayreward you farther.’4 Old Bernhard accepted the little bottleand a piece of cheese only to get rid of theimportunity of the dwarf, who would takeno refusal.4 Towards noon, he was proceeding to hisvillage; the road was long*, and feelingfatigued, he lay down in the shade of a tree,took out the gift of the dwarf, and began toeat and think. Meanwhile, who should myevil stars bring in his way but youngHildebrand, the most miserly fellow in thevillage! 4 God bless you, father Bernhard !’11—4 Thank you my son.’ Thus the con¬versation proceeded. The niggard sees theold man comfortably enjoying his repast;so he sets himself down beside him and takesi a share. There they eat and eat for abouti an hour,—but the wine never gets less, andthe cheese is never done, and both beholdthe miracle till their hair stands on end.4 All was now over, Master fiddler, andm poor Berthold was undone!4 Hildebrand chose words wnich wentI down with Berrdiard as smoothly as honey,1 and the long and the short of the matterli was, my dear sweet Siegelind was promisedi to the rich miser, with the marvellous cheesei for her dowry., The old man was now quiteI beside himself,—the young man talked finely—they were to outdo the whole village, andkeep their secret to themselves; I was calledj a miserable wretch, and the spirit of mischief! just brought me into their way in time to| hear the whole sad story.’4 Ah, good heavens,’ exclaimed Almerich| again, 41 am undone with cold; it is turn-i ing a chill rainy day, and my bones are so:i naked!—Hew, hew, how the storm blowsi: into my very soul! This day will be the' death of me.—I thought so before. Take)i your way, my son, I give you my fiddle ina present,—leave me the wallet here, I willstretch myself cut to die upon it’i The mischief is in it!’ grumbled BertholdJ£ If matters are to go on in this way, we shaUlbe a year and a day hence still travelling!this cursed road ? Hark ye, old boy, you|are an odd fellow! what tempted youdo thinkof wandering through our rough countrylwithout meat or drink or even a coat, budiwith a fiddle as large as a ton, and an emptywallet as heavy as seven three stone cheeses j;’Tis a perfect tempting of Providence jiWhy the deuce do you drag after you thalass’s burden of old rubbish, without so muchas the convenience of a cloak in your bundle!'‘It is all very true,’ sighed Almerich..‘ I am not yet accustomed to be the lame,feeble man you now see me. Thirty yearago I could skip like a leveret over hills an<dales; but now, farewell to friend AlmerictyI shall never leave this place! However it)is all one,—perish here, or die there, a dyingbed is ever a hard one, even though it shouldbe of down and silk ?’‘ Now really,’ replied Berthold, ‘ you aretoo whimsical, fiddler ! The cold blast neverhurts a tough fellow who is accustomed torun about the mountains,—there, slip intomy coat, and walk smartly on, for a showeris approaching, and that rascally wallet isweighing me down to the ground.’‘Patience, child, patience!’ said Almerichi—‘ This coat is quite warm from your13i shoulders,—I feel very comfortable in it,—i slowly, gently, your story of the marvellousl cheese and wine has restored me to warmth1 —how did the matter go on ?’i You rogue and rascal!’ thought Berthold. to himself, and thus continued his lamentable) tale. x(How did it go on !—Gertrude sang to thesame tune as her husband; Siegelind grewt sad, and lost her bloom and strength; thei !old boy urged the matter, and Hildebrand. too,—Bernhard was anxious to get the richland proud son-in-law, and was in great fear‘lest the enchanted wine should soon dry up,—the young fellow had money in his eye,i and wished to turn the bewitched cheese tousury,—thus the wedding was determinedon, and I was left in sadness upon my moun-itain. I tried to forget it; I thoughti Siegelind could not have borne me in heri heart, otherwise she would not, even to escapej death and martyrdom, have married the redi haired Hildebrand. Last night, however,. I could find neither rest nor sleep upon my; straw, I must go and see her with my owny eyes take that miser for her husband. Nearthe village I will wrap up my head and dyej my hands and cheeks with berries, so thatM nobody will know me,—nor in the bustle of'!] the wedding, when every thing is turningj; topsy turvy, will a living soul care for poor14Berthold. When all is over, I shall, so itplease Heaven, become wise again; or ifnot, my poor brain will be turned altogether,and that will be a blessing too.’‘ My good child,’ said the dwarf, 4 you willget over all this. 1 perceive very well thatit is a hard journey, and a bitter weddingtoo for you: but it is your good luck, mychild, that you have me for a companion— |I will fiddle till your heart leaps again,— |your sorrow grieves me as much as if it were Jmy own.’Whilst talking thus, a few drops of rainfell, which proved the prelude to a heavyshower; and although the travellers had al¬ready gone a considerable way, they werestill far from the end of their journey, andgush after gush, the rain poured upon their' eads till the water run down from their hatsas from a spout.Berthold trudged silently on, sighing |frequently and heavily under his burden,—h< |could have sworn that it increased a pound’? Jiweight every step, nevertheless it was im- jpossible for his good nature to think of giv- fing it back to the poor cripple in such a tern- jjpest. The rain soon began to trickle through !his waistcoat, and run in a cold stream down ihis back, he wished himself, the dwarf, and *the wedding all far enough, but stalked 'sullenly on through the mud as if he had i15neen wading- through the highest Alpinefftass.The fiddler limped close behind him,i roaking occasionally through his raven' itiroat, an old spring song, which told ofrunshine, and singing birds, and pleasure,f ,nd love. At times he drew himself snuglyjpgether, and expatiated on the excellenciesf the herdsman’s coat, which he declaredIras quite waterproof,—and then he would'xhort Berthold to step leisurely, to payparticular attention to the wallet and fiddle,and above all not to overheat himself.The herdsman would have lost all patiencend courage a thousand times over inragging his hundred weight of a load andlaying the fool to the crazy fiddler, if head not been ashamed to throw away theurden which he had volunteered to rairv,nd forsake the person whose company head himself invited. But in his heart heowed deeply and solemnly never again toend his coat to a fiddler, nor give away hischeese, nor to carry a fiddle and wallet, andliter all be mocked and laughed at by suchin odd quiz of a fellow. 4 If/ thought heit last, 4 the upshot of all this is a fever inj;he evening which carries me quickly off-—he it so,—it remains a bitter wedding!’After a few hours rain, the two pedestriansreached the vallev. where a swollen and1(5rapid torrent, which had swept away everyvestige of the little bridge that led to the:;village, with the exception of a single small :plank, rushed across the path; the herds¬man heeded not the narrow' footing, and was 1stepping boldly across, when his companionbegan to roar out lustily about the dangersof the path : 1 For my life and so id I will !not move from the spot! Neither cat norrat could passover there,—I would be a dead 1man if I ventured on that cursed plank! :Let them fiddle yonder who can swim,—I 1wish I was in a feather bed with my fiddlefor a pillow!’‘ Don’t make such a noise about it!’ cried *Berthold. ‘ If we have got thus far, w e willsurely go on a little farther,—if I havebrought the fiddler this length to the bitter 1dance, I w ill also bring him to the w'edding jhouse,—though I am a fool, I am neverthe¬less a good-natured one.’With these w'ords the herdsman took offthe fiddle and wallet from his back, andsupplied the place with the dwarf, whom he rcarried over as easily as a bundle of straw.He then returned for the fiddle, wrallet, and Icrutch, which lay as heavy as so many stones |upon his shoulders.‘ Well, the best of it now is,’ said be, thatwe shall soon reach the village,—but either'my head is turned, or that wallet is filledl!b0'!-';17? with flesh and blood, and master Ahnerich’sis stufied with chaff!’Nonsense!’ replied the fiddler with abroad grin, ‘You have behaved well, child;it would be a great pity if the bride yonderwould not get you; you have the genuinei| patience of the lamb in you, yet I perceivei, you have also strength enough, with yourii heart in the right place, and as much wisdom: f as there is any need of in the country. Come,|J let us paint your cheeks, and put on the oldt cap you will find in my wallet, and the green■i waistcoat and get that belt about you; to-| day you will be the fiddler’s boy, and not aliving creature know you.’The fiddler opened his wallet and threwI out its contents to Berthold, whose face hei painted with cranberries, and beard and eye-I brows with a bit of coal, and then theyi walked gaily on towards the village.Evening was just coming on, and the sunj broke out all at once from under the clouds,—the birds began to sing cheerfully,—theflowers opened their leaves as if to listen,and Berthold felt his clothes sooner driedthan if he had been sitting close to a largefire.In a few minutes our wanderers mingledwith the merry wedding-guests; noises andmerriment were echoing all around, and noone looked sad but Siegelind, who kept her18 Jtearful eyes fixed upon the ground. Theold fiddler was welcomed with shouts ofapplause; for the rain had prevented the1arrival of the band of fiddlers and pipers whohad been invited on the occasion, and everybody thought it a piece of marvellous giluck for the wedding that master Almericbshould have got through.£ Now, children,’ exclaimed the old boy,|,£ fetch us something to drink, and somcheese and bread, and do not forget that\ outh who has dragged myself as well as myfiddle here to-day.’i’he guests hastened to execute the oldfiddler’s commands, and even Gertrude andBernhard bustled about to serve him. PoorBerthold’s heart was bleeding, but he kept s,eating and drinking, that he might not beobliged to speak. Meanwhile the old fiddlerput dry strings on his instrument, and beganto tune it so stoutly that it thrilled throughmarrow and bone, and quickly drew theattention of all upon the musician.’£ Bless me,’ whispered Bernhard to Ger¬trude,’ 4 upon my faith it is the very dwarfwho gave me the bewitched wine and cheese!Be gentle to him wife, and say not a singleword.’All at once the fiddle struck up so brisklythat the very house shook with blow uponsuch a furious strainiblow,—he commencedI19' hat the whole company leaped up from theirranches and began dancing as if they were> jnad. 4 Heigh, heigh!’ shouted the people.’ There is a fiddle!’ and every one capered1 i.nd whirled through the wedding chamberi s if they danced for a wager. The youngpieople led out the dance, and the old onesobbled as fast after them as they could;nd nobody stood idle but Siegelind—whoished herself ten thousand miles away fromle merriment—and Berthold, who gazedtedfastly and sorrowfully upon his beloved.In the midst of his fiddling, MasterUmerich beckoned to the beautiful bride toep near him ; 4 There stands a little bottleonder where your bridegroom has beenated, and some old cheese with it,—I darey it will not be the worst in the house,—Iould taste a little of it,—this playingakes me a little nice in the palate.’The good natured bride brought the bottlend cheese, and placed them on a chair beside, knowing no reasonable objection to theId man’s taking as much as he could eat.The dwarf quickly laid his fiddle aside,aised the bewitched bottle in his right hand,'nd the cheese in his left, and exclaimedith a loud voice, 4 Well, my good people,ell, here’s the health of that beautiful bride‘there and her sweetheart; mav she live longmnd joyfully!’20* Long and joyfully!’ resounded througlthe room, while fifty bonnets and hats wentossed up into the air.But horror struck and deadly pale ditHildebrand and Bernhard and Gertrudbecome when they saw the wondrous win*and enchanted cheese in Almerich’s uplift a: >fist. { Dares he—can he—will he!’ darteithrough their hearts. But, woe and alasin one turn of his hand, the glutton with hi: alarge ox-mouth, had swallowed the bewitch aed draught and marvellous cheese withouleaving a morsel!A roar of passion from the red hairecHildebrand, and a gush of tears fronGertrude, now terrified the people: whih »old Bernhard stood like one petrified. Bua cheerful smile lightened upon the countenance of Siegelind, and Berthold rose boldl}1from his bench, and stood ready to use hrfists upon Hildebrand if he should dare totouch the fiddler.‘You rogue! you beggar!’ at last ex¬claimed Hildebrand. ‘ VY ho told you tcgive that old fool of a fiddler that gift oij»heaven ? You may now toss your house«and your bride too to the moon; I ne|ilonger care a straw lor you or all that be-,longs to you!’With words of venom and execration,Hildebrand rushed out of the room, whilstht21ne enraged Bernhard and his crowd of; 'nests looked terrified after him. £ I am anndone man! at last exclaimed Bernhard.My child and we are all ruined! Thei bedding feast and the adornments are all« npaid! Oh cursed, horrid miser! bringne a knife—a knife !’£ A fig for a knife!’ exclaimed the fiddler.* I See here is the bridegroom just come, wholas brought with him a whole wallet full ofdffpld,—and the bride loves him with all herueart, and the guests are all together—and(joy fiddle is in glorious tune!’13 With these words Almerich crippled for-iivard to the half bewildered and yet joyfulBerthold, and drew him into the circle: hethen wiped the paint oft’ his face with theskirts of his coat, and showed to the delightedbride and the astonished guests their well•known neighbour, who was dear and wel¬come to all. He then ordered the wallet tooe dragged forward, and having opened theiock, behold a prodigious quantity of pure•red gold tumbled out from it, dazzling the1 jeyes of all with its splendour! Old Bernhardtend Gertrude embraced Berthold with tearsbf repentance, and Berthold by turns em-3braced the lovely Siegelind and the uglydwarf. Almerich took his fiddle and struckI up a tune which bewitched them all, and theydanced till midnight in joy and glory, The22musician then escaped, and left a whole ho«fidl of merry-makers around the two haplovers, who, till their last day, a thousatimes blessed the bitter wedding in whi:they had been so wonderfully united by tbenevolent lame dwarf.ttoi23HIPPSLEY’S DRUNKEN MAN.Here Betty you jade! bring me a pint of1 iialf-and-half—be sure you mix them—andout them in separate jugs. Betty! hanghat girl—she goes up stairs twenty timesi-day, and never comes down again. Con¬found the back of this chair, it is alwaysbehind. Well, I have given my wife thedip at last: Ah ! she is quite a domestici Christian—she knocks off the heels of her[shoes on a saturday-night to prevent her go¬sling to church on the Sunday.—She’s quite a' ipious woman—whenever I conceal m}" money,I always put it in the bible, I am sure myflwife will never go there to look for it Ishave the finest set of children a man wouldSiwish to stick a knife into. There’s my son(Sjames—he will be a counsel or a bishop, Iam certain, he is so wise:—His mother sent[him on an errand; turning the corner of aslstreet, he met a lawyer full plump, whichknocked him down—the poor boy has neverver since. There’s j  -she’s so cute:—Thelilother day her mother was ironing the clothes;'lithe iron was red hot; she, like a wise childit took hold of it to help her mother—and whatIdo you think? she let it drop in a momentcertainly will be a24There’s my daughter Sukey, she beyond adoubt will be an empress some day I’m sure,she’s so wonderfully wise:—The Parson ofthe parish sent a pair of black stockings tobe darned; and to show the child’s wisdom |—she darned them with white worsted, andjsent the Parson hopping to church like amagpie. [Takes up a newspaper.] Home HCWS—Constantinople—One thousand sevenhundred—and fast asleep. This evening!the Pope was brought to-bed of a pair oftwins: what was wonderful, they were bootedand spurred, with whips in their handsJThis evening, an empty chaise passed thistown with a lawyer fast asleep in it. Thurs¬day morning at three o’clock in the afternoon,a fire broke out in an empty house and quiteconsumed the furniture. A poor man fellfrom a garret window into the street—veryfortunately he had a flannel nightcap on,which saved his brains from being knocked Iout Here Betty ! tell my wife to go to a Jjoiner and purchase a w ooden grate—I know jshe is a sensible woman and very careful—for I think, when the fire is in it, it will boall in a blaze. Here Betty, Betty!