THE7THEHISTORYOF THEFOUR KINGSOFCanterbury, Colchester,Cornwall, and Cumberland,I ‘Their Queens and Daughter^The Merry Tales of Tom Hodgeand his SchooUFellows.STIRLING:PRINTED BY W. MACNIE,Where is always kept on Sale, a choice and extensive Assort¬ment of Histories, Songs, Children’s Story Boolts,School Books, S?c,. Ste,THEPREFACE.I*NOT to detain the reader with manywords to little purpose, I shall only hereobserve, that Tom Hodge, with therest of his old companions, belonging tothe school of Cockermouth, were walk-ing on a very pleasant morning in May,and having tired themselves with pranksand intrigues, towards evening they satthemselves down on a green bank, be-neath a lovely oak, where they agreed| amongst themselves, that every oneshould tell a Tale, or pay a fine ; andbecause Tom was the eldest scholar,it was-concluded and agreed upon thathe should begin first.Says Tom, 'with all my heart,So Fll begin my partTHEMerry Tales¥OFTOM HODGE.ONCE upon a time, when the opin¬ion was common in England, that thosewhose age and experience enabled themto determine the consequences of cer¬tain actions were wizards and witches;there was a Queen in this realm, whosename was Elizabeth j and by reasonthat the famous town of Lancaster wasstrangely pestered with witches, theQueen sent some judges down to ar¬raign and try them in order to bringthem to justice.Now the news of this court being to-be kept in Lancaster, spread throughall the country, so that a husbandmanliving near forty miles from that place,hearing of this news, and believing theywere come to tell the folks whether theywere witches or hot, resolved tofgo to besatisfied in himself, for he was possessedwith a fear that he was a witch, becausehe had a wart grew on his neck, whichbe imagined to be a dug.5His wife, who had a friend • <tand was therefore glad of i dee,did not only give her cons ulsodrest him in his best leathr . .1broad brim’d hat.—So tiki y ofbis good wife Joan, h trad 1 ;yand night until lie came t • pa cewhere the court was kept: ,and pressing through tin thecrier of the court beiievi > to. besome evidence, irpm^ i. is i sthat they should let him m ; ; tgsoon done, and he wasr* qu .kwhat he had to say. a • becountryman, d’ye see, I’v onmy neck, which mak s m. » i ima witch, and volks tell me, thesevine gentlemen, pointing to ja ges,can tell a body wheth.-r wn itchor no—The crier of ; ! >• c eingthe simplicity of the .man, s , i, no,ray frienii, I can assure ti ! ui artno witch: thou lookes - like acuckold than a witch or a e ' juror. Ithank you zur j and zo z ^ e vinegentlemen. Tnen having-tv .t ireeorfour scrapes and halt a doz c .ngees,he came back as wise as vValiham’scalf. The next dry he was met byhis wife, who waited for his re¬turn at the town’s end, to whom6she said, Well husband, what do thegentlemen say ? are you a witch or no ?A witch, sweet wife, no; they tells abody one looks more like a cuckoldthan a witch or a conjuror. Why sayyou so ? replied she, I prithee go backand have them taken up for witches;for except they had been so, they wouldsot have known you were a cuckold.Th is merry tale so pleased them, thatthey set up a hearty laugh, which beingended, the second boy began his talein the following manner.TALE II.In the days of yore, when this landwas governed by many kings, among therest the king of Canterbury had an onlydaughter, and she was wise, fair, andbeautiful. Her father sent forth a de¬cree, that who ever would watch onenight with his daughter, and neithersleep nor slumber, he should have herthe next day in marriage; but if he dideither, he should lose his head. ManyKnights and Squires attempted it, butlost their heads.' 7Now it happened, a young shepherdgrazing his flock near the road, said tohis master, Zur, I zee many gentlemenride totheeourt at Canterbury, but ne'ersee 'em return again. O shepherd! saidhis master, I know not how they should jfor they attempt to watch with theKing's daughter, according to the de-i cree and not performing it, they are alld beheaded. Well, said the shepherd, I'll>try my vorton ; zo now vor a king'sdaughter or a headless shepherd. Andtaking his bottle and bag, he trudg’d tocourt. Now, in his way he was to crossa river, over which lay a plank, downhe sits, and pulls off his shoes and stock¬ings to wash his feet, lest the smell ofhis toes might be the means of keepingher awake : while he was washing hisfeet a fish came smelling an-l biting histoes, he caught it and put it into hisbag : after which came a second, a third,and a fourth, which he caught ana putin his bag likewise ; this done, and dried1 his feet, he put on his stockings andshoes, and pursued his journey till hecame to the palace, where he knockedloudly with his crook : he was no soonerlet in, and’having told his business, buthe was conducted to a hall, preparedfor that purpose, where the king's8daughter sat ready to receive him ; andthe better to lull his senses, he wasplaced in a rich easy chair, having de¬licious wines for his supper, with manytine dishes of fruit, ,&c. of which theshepherd eat and drank plentifully, in-somuch that he began to slumber beforemidnight. O shepherd, said the lady, Ihave caught you napping? Not, zweetally, 1 was busy : at what ? said she :Why a feeshing. Nay shepherd, there isno fish-pond in the hall. No matter vorthat, 1 have been feeslfng. Says thelady, where do you fish? Oquoth he inmy bag. () me, have you catch’d e’era one ? Ay, lady, said ne. I’d willinglysee it, replied she. Ay, an’t please you,you shall with all my heart. This said,he slyly drew one of the fishes out ofthe bag at the sight of which she wasgreatly pleased and praised it for a pret¬ty fish ; and withal said Dear Shepherd,do you think you could catch one inmine too? Ay, ay, doubtless 1 can.Then she lying according to his direct-ions, he fell to fishing, and, in a shorttime drew a second fish out of the bagpretending he drew it from her. Theking’s daughter was so pleased with it,that she kissed it declaring it was thefinest she ever saw. And about half anhour after she said, Shepherd, do you9think you could get rse one more ? lieanswered, May hap I may, when I havebaited my hook. Then make hast forI am impatient till I have another :Then the shepherd acted as before, andso presented her with another fish ;which she also extolled arid praised,saying, it was ten times finer than theother ; and then gave him leave tosleep, promising to excuse him to herfather.In the morning, the king came intothe hall as usual, followed by the heads¬man with a hatchet ; but the lady criedout, you may return with your hatchet,here is no work for you. How so, saidthe king, has he neither slumber’d norslept ? No, royal father he has not. Howhas he employed himself? In fishing.—Why there is never a fish-pond ; wheredid he catch them ? One in his ownbag, and two in tiiis one of mine. Sayyou so ? Well, friend, dost thou thinkthou can’st catch one in mine ? An’tplease you, my liege, I believe I can.Then directing him to lie on his belly,he pocked him with a packing needle,which made him cry out exceedingly ;at which time he drew the other fishout of the bag, and shewed it to theking. His Majesty said, he never knewsuch sort of fishing before, however,10take my daughter, according to myroyal decree : and so they were mar*ried, and the wedding kept in greattriumph, and the shepherd became aking’s son.O that was mighty well, said thethird boy, he had wonderful good for¬tune.—This puts rre in mind of a story,which I will now tell in my turn.TALE III.If I may believe my old grand-mo-ther, there lived in the county of Cum¬berland, a nobleman, who had threesons, two of them were comely and tallyouths, wise and learned : the third amerry fool, and went often in a party-coloured coat and steeple crowned hat,at the top of which was a tassel : in thisdress he made a comical figure. At thistime the king of Canterbury had a finedaughter, adorned with all the gifts ofnature, joined to an ingenious educa¬tion, she being very ripe wilted, as ap¬peared by her ready answers, and thecomical questions she pul forih. rlheking her father published a decree, thatwhoever should come to the court, andanswer his daughter three questions,11wiitiout study or stumbling, should have-her in marriage, and also be heir to thecrown at his decease, ©n publishingthis decree, the said gentleman’s twosons agreed between themselves to goand try how favourable fortune mightbe to them in this undertaking ; but alltheir care was, what they should dowith their silly brother Jack j for, asthey said, if he follows us, he will outwith some fuolish bolt, and so spoil our| business. At length it was agreed oni gaing to the court, to go out of theI back door, which led to the road overt several fields, about a mile from thef house. They did so, but were no soon-ii er got into the highway, but looking be-I hind, the saw their brother Jack cominga capering and dancing after them, saying,I with a loud laughter, so you are goingl to get a king’s daughter, bui I willI pursue you. They saw there was noi way to get rid of him, but by walking1 fast, and leaving him behind, hoping; thereby to get entrance before Jack,i: and then have the gates shut againstl him. They had not gone half a mile1 before Jack set up a great fit of laughter;6 at which one of his brothers said, what’st the fool found out now ? Why, I’ve! found an egg. Put it in thy pocket,12said his brothers. Adad, and so I will,says Jack. Presently after he was takenwith another fit of laughter. What’s thefool found now ? What have I found,says Jack ! why a crooked stick. Theybid him put that in his pocket also. Ay,marry, will I. They had not walkedmuch farther, before Jack burst into agreater fit of laughter than before. Hisbrothers said, wrhat’s the fool foundnow? Found, why an orange: Putthat in your pocket likewise. I intendit, says Jack. Now, by this time theywere come near the paiace<.gate, at whichthey no sooner knocked but they wereadmitted. But Jack never stood forceremonies but ran through the midstof the court, and as the wise brotherswere making their addresses. Jack waslaughing at the? ladies ; unto whom hesaid, what a troop of fair ladies are gothere 1 O yes, yes, said the King’s idaughter, who was among them ; we arefair ladies, for we carry fire in our bosom.Do you ? said Jack : then roast me anegg. How will you get it out again ? ,By a crooked stick which i. have. Ayyou will said she. I have it in mypocket, says Jack, m this Jack answeredthe three questions proposed. Then hewas preferred to that honour which wasmentioned in the decree. His two wise13; brothers then went home like two fools,i and left foolish Jack to be reverencedat court, with the king’s fair daughter.|t _ •Said the fourth boy, this verifies thei old Proverb, fools have Fortune j be-i sides, it has put me in mind of a storythat was told me by my aunt.TALE IV.Long befsre Arthur, and the Knightsof the Round Table, here reigned inthe easterly part of this land, a Kingwho kept his court at Colchester : Hew'as witty, su ong and valiant, by whichmeans he subdued his enemies abroad,and planted peace among his subjectsat home.Nevertheless, in the midst of all hisearthly glory, his queen died, leavingbehind her an only daughter, aboutfifteen years of age, under the care ofher royal husband. This lady, fromher courtly carriage, beauty and affa¬bility, was the wonder of all that knewher 5 but, as covetousness is the root ofall evil, so it happened here.14The king hearing of a Lady who had jlikewise an only daughter, for the sakeof her riches, had a mind to marry her;though she was old, ugly, hook-nos’dand hump-back’d, yet all could not de¬ter him from marrying her. The daugh¬ter of the said piece of deformity wasa yellow dowdy, full of envy and illnature ; and, in short, was much of thesame mould as her mother. This sig¬nified nothing, for in a few weeks theking attended by the nobility and gen¬try, brought the said piece of deformityto his palace, where the marriage-riteswere performed. Long they had notbeen in the court, before they set theking against his own beautiful daugh¬ter, which was done by false reportsand accusations. The young princesshaving lost her father’s love, grewweary of the court, and on a certainday meeting with her father in the gar¬den, she desired him with tears in hereyes, to give her a small subsistance,and she would go and seek her fortune;to which the king consented, and or¬dered her motbenin-law to make up asmall sum according to her discretion.To her she went, who gave her a canvasbag of brown bread, a hard cheese, witha bottle of beer; though this was but avery pitiful dowry for a king’s daughter,loshe took it, returned thanks, and soproceeded, passing through groves,woods, and valleys, till at length shesaw an old man sitting on a stone at themouth of a cave, who said, Good^mor-rov/, fair maiden, whither away so fast ?Aged father, says she, 1 am going toseek my fortune. What hast thou in thybag and bottle ? In my bag I have gotbread and cheese j and in my bottlegood small beer j will you please to par-take of either ? Yes, said he, with allmy heart. With that the lady pull’dout her provision, and bid him eat andwelcome. He did, and gave her manythanks, telling her there was a thickthorny hedge before her, which will ap¬pear to you impassable, but take thiswand in your hand, strike three times,and say, pray hedge, let me comethrough ; and it will open immediately :Then a little further* you will find awell, sit down on the brink of it, andthere will come up three golden headswhich will speak : and what they re¬quire, that do. Then promising shewould, she took her leave of him. Com¬ing to the hedge, and following the oldman’s direction, the hedge divided, andgave her a passage : Then coming tothe well, she had no sooner sittendown, but a golden head came up with16a singing note, Wash me, comb me, layme down softly : Yes, said the younglady : then putting forth her hand, witha silver comb performed the office, plac¬ing it upon a primrose bank. Then cameup a second., and a third, saying as theformer, which she complied with j andthen pulling out her provision, ate her idinner. Then said the Heads one to an- *other, What shall we do for this lady,who hath used us so very kindly ? The jfirst said, I will cause such addition toherbeautyasshall charm the most power- 1ful prince in the world. The second saidI will endow her with such perfume,both in body and breath, as shall far ex¬ceed the sweetest flowers. The thirdsaid, My gift shall be none of the least,for as she is a king's daughter, I’ll makeher so fortunate, that she shall becomeqmeen to the greatest prince that reigns, jThis done, at their request she let them *down into thewel!again,and so proceed¬ed on her journey. She had not travel¬led long before she saw a king huntingin the nark with his nobles ; she wouldhave shunned him, but the king havinga sight of her, made towards her, andbetween her beauty and perfumed bieath,was so powerfully smitten, that he wasnot able to subdue his passion, but pro-• 17ceeded on his courtship, where, aftersome compliments and kind embraces,he gained her love. And bringing herto his palace, he cahsed her to be cloth¬ed in the most magnificent manner.This being ended, and the king find¬ing that she was the king of Colchester’sdaughter, ordered some chariots to begot ready, that he might pay him a visit.The chariot in which the king and queenrode, was beautified with rich ornamen¬tal gems of gold. The king her fatherwas at first astonished that his daughterhad been so fortunate as sne was till theyoung king made him sensible of all thathappened. Great was the joy at courtamong the nobility, except the queenand her club-footed daughter, who wereready to burst with malice, and enviedher happiness; and the greater was theirmadness, because she was now abovethem all. Great rejoicings, with feast¬ing and dancing, continued many days.Then at length, with the dowry that herfather gave her, they returned home.Well, said the fifth boy, had she notbeen kind and beautiful, such good for¬tune had never come to her lot. Andpray what became of her hump-backedsister-in-law ? Indeed I know not. Whythen, said the fifth boy, I can tell yousomething of her.18TALE V.She perceiving that her sister was sohappy in seeking her fortune, wouldneeds do the same ; so disclosing hermind to her mother, all preparationswere made ; not only rich apparel butsweet-meats, sugar, almonds, &c. ingreat quantities, and a large bottle ofMalaga-sack. Thus furnished she wentthe^same road as her sister, and comingnear the cave, there sat the old man,who said, young woman, whither sofast? What is that to you, said she.'Then said he, what have you in yourbag and bottle ? She answered goodthings, what you shall not be troubledwith. Won’t you give me some, saidhe ? No, not a bit nor a drop, unlessit would choak you. The old man frown¬ed, saying evil fortune attend thee.Going on, she came to the hedge,through which she espied a gap, whereshe thought to pass, but going in thehedge closed, and the thorns run mtoher flesh, so that with great difficultyshe got out Being now in a bloodycondition, she looks for water to washherself, and looking round she saw awell, and sitting down, one of the beads19came up to her, sayi; * sh me, combme, lay me down soft! *. ut she bang’dit with her b V.le, v. g, hang you,take this for ; w is .mg. So the se-cond and third heans ca ne up, and metwith no bettei welc me than the first.Whereupon the h*ia<Is consulted amongthemselves, what evils to plague herwith for such usage. The first said, lether be struck with leprosy in her face.The second said, let an additional stinkbe added to her breath. The third be¬stowed on her a husband, tho’ but apoor ccuntry-cobler. This done, shegoes on till she came to a market-town,and it being market-day, the peoplesmell’d a stink, and seeing such a man¬gy face, all fled, but a poor cobler, whonot long before had mended the shoesof an old hermit, who having no money,gave him a box of ointment for thecure of the leprosy, and a bottle ofspirits lor a stinking breath. Now thecobler having a mind to do an act ofcharity, was minded to try an experi¬ment ; so going up to her, asked herwho she was ? I am, said she, the Kingof Colchester’s daughter-in-law. Well,said the Cobler, iff restore you to yournatural complexion, and make a soundcure both in face and breath, will you inreward take me fora husband? Yes, friend20replied she, with all my heart. With thisthe Cobler applied theremediesand theyworked the effect in a few weeks, whichbeing done, they were married. Aftersome few days spent in towit, they set.forward for the court at Colchester.At length coming there, and the queenunderstanding she had married nothingbut a poor Cobler, fell into distraction,and in wrath hanged herself. The deathof the queen pleased the king‘much,who was glad he had got rid of her sosoon. Having buried her, he gave theCobler one hundred pounds, on con.dition that he and his lady would quitthe Court. The Cobler received it, andpromised he would : then setting up histrade in a remote part of the kingdom,they lived many years, he mendingshoes, aud she spinning thread.Quoth the sixth boy, I think for aking’s daughter she hath spun a veryfine thread, but now for my story.TALE VI.A Tinker in our town had but onedaughter, whose name was Tib, and be-cause her father would not let her marry21i miller’s, man named Jq'osod, nothingwould serveher but she must go and seekler fortune, so over hills and mountains,;hrough groves and lonesome woods shejassed, till at length she met with an oldwoman, who said unto Tib, where areyou going ? To seek service, says Tib.Will you live with me ? replied the oldwoman ; my family is small, myself, mycat, and my dog. Tib answered, with allmy heart. So home they went to her cot-ctage, which stood by tne side of a groveon the bank of a pleasant river. She nosooner entered in at the door, than sheibeheld the shelves furnished with abund-ranceofearthen ware ami glasses. She hadnot lived long with her, before Tib hadicommitted a fault, for which the old wo-i man was resolved to break every bone ini her skin. For that end she put her intoa sack, and having tied the mouth of the• same, she went to the grovetocutastick;(but while she was gone, Tib with a pen-;knife opened the sack and got out; and(put the dog and cat into it, filling it up'with pans pipkins, &c. then dragged k; to the door, that the old woman mightmot come in to miss them, who, on her*: return, thinking that l ib had rowled thi-Ither, began today on like a fury ; wheni, the dog howled, the * at mewed, and the22pipkins cracked $ while the old womancries out, Ah ! howl if you will and bepox’d ; for before you come out of thissack, I'll thrash your bones to chaff.—Now Tib stood at a dissance, laughingto see how busy she was in destroyingher own furniture, then fled for it, andnever after returned.theIt was well she did, repliedseventh boy, or else the old womanwould certainly have been revenged onTib at last. But now for fny story,which shall be the last at this meeting.TALE VII.A young man having found a pursein which was five pounds, he made aproclamation that if any one would Uyany just claim to it, to come to such atavern, and they would have it again.To the tavern he went, where, in meatand drink, he spent a crown. At last !when the young man was ready to go, ;the owner came and demanded the Ipurse, which he was ready to surrender;but the owner, on knowing a crownwas spent, he would notfreceive it, unless23e made up the whole sum. The younglan told him, he could not; so anIfScer was sent for ; but before he came,he youth took to his heels, and ran forit with that swiftness, that, an ass stand-pg in his way, he took hold of his tail0 swing himself by, and twitched it off.V little farther he overthrew a womantfith child and caused her to miscarry,itt length he was taken and broughtijtefore a Justice by the three sufferers.1 laving heard thteir complaints he turned0 theyoung man, and said. Young man,everal complaints are here laid againstirou, which I shall clear up: First, keep1 he money you have found, and tradewith it till you have improved it so fara to make him satisfaction, and then: et him have it. You take the ass, andwork him till a new tail grows, then givelium to his owner. And you take the wo>man home, till she is as far gone withidiild as she was before and then sendaer home to her husband. So with thesedeterminations he dismissed them.TALE VIII.In the reign of King Arthur, near theiLandsendof England,namely thecounty24of Cornwall, there lived a wealthy farirer, who had” o’ne only son, comraonljknown by the name Jack Hornby.—|He "was brisk, and of’ a ready wit, sithat whatever he could not perform bjstrength, he completed by ingenious wi jand policy.For instance, when he was no mortthan seven years of age, his father senhim into the field to look after his oxenThe laird by chance coming across tinfield, asked Jack many questions, partieularly, How many commands therewere ? Jack told him there were nineThe laird replied there were ten. Nay*quoth Jack, Sir, you are out of that, itis true there were ten, but you brokeone of them when you coveted my fa¬ther’s bull. The landlord replied. Thou1art an arch wag, Jack.But, Sir, says Jack, can you tell mehow many sticks goes to build a crow’snest ? Why, says the landlord, there areas many goes as are sufficient for thesize of the nest. Oho, you are out againSir, quoth Jack, there is none goes, they |are ali carried.The landlord finding himself so foil¬ed, trodged away, leaving Jack in a fitof laughter.FINIS.