LIFE,MEMOIRS, & PEDIGREEOFTHOMAS HAMILTON DICKSON, #%Author of “A Collection of Poems and Songs," “ ThePorcupine," “ The Historical Novel of theVHinge of Clamourtown," cjc.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR,BY MUIR, GOWANS, & CO.( * Of SCOTLMfB r)I-1^LIFE, MEMOIRS, AND PEDIGREEOFTHOMAS HAMILTON DICKSON.The subject of these memoirs was born in thevillage of Eddleston, and county of Peebles,on the 9th of March, in the year 1803, of re¬spectable parents, whose temper and disposition ■seemed to have been soured by the vicissitudesof a life chequered by disappointment. Theirpretensions were great, and if the contents oftheir purse had been as large, their son wouldhave been one of the wealthiest men in thekingdom: descended from a family not theleast amongst the Scottish aristocracy, alikefitted for the senate, the bar, the pulpit, or thefield. They had been warriors prior to thedays of Wallace, and had been endowed bynature with a gigantic frame, some of themhaving been known to be above seven feet, withstrength proportionate to their heights, andseldom below six. At the celebrated battle ofChevy Chase, so decisive in its termination, itis said that one of my ancestors fell, and yield¬ed life only when overpowered by numbers, andwhen he was lying on the ground mortallywounded, in the last throes of departing nature,he slew one of his antagonists who happenedto come within his reach. At the celebratedbattle of Flodden Field, another of my ancestorswas wounded, but not mortally. In fact, mypredecessors filled every situation in the army,from the general down to the private soldier.My great grandfather, after being worn out bythe fatigues of a military life, retired to his pa¬ternal possessions, which were situated in thevicinity of the far-famed Tweed, a river equal,if not superior, to any in Scotland. He de¬voted the few remaining years of his life to re¬tirement and devotion ; and from his mansionthe houseless and destitute were never knownto be turned away, without having their im¬mediate wants supplied. He had nine daugh¬ters, and they were all married, and had largefamilies, who intermarried with some of themost ancient and respectable families in thecountry. He died at the advanced age ofeighty-two—a man not only great in body but inmind. His funeral was attended by the mostwealthy and influential in the place, while greatnumbers of the poorer classes followed in therear, mourning their loss, for he was a goodman, and endeavoured to be serviceable to thosewho had not wherewithal to serve themselves.My grandfather, when a youth, was gay andlively as the flowery month of May. It is re¬lated, while his father was at devotion he wentto the carriage or cart house, which was situ¬ated in a hill above the dwelling house, andtook oft a coach wheel, and impelled it downthe hill, the doors of the house being firmlysecured at the time. As the wheel descended,every revolution added strength and fury to itsvelocity, and struck the door like thunder,while the inmates were in a reclined position,and were quite unconscious of the danger. Hemarried, while young, a lady of ancient family,whose name was Agnes Scott, by whom hehad three sons and three daughters. My fatherwas the youngest son. The other two, Thomasand Adam, were the oldest. Thomas died inthe flower of youth. Adam was bred to themedical profession, in the University of Edin¬burgh, under Sir John Munro. He afterwardswent to Jamaica, and was appointed Doctor tohis Majesty’s forces in that part of the world.He raised himself to great celebrity and wealth,but never returned home to his native country.My grandmother had two brothers in the ScotsGreys—one was Colonel, and the other aCaptain, who both fell at the ever-memorablebattle of Fontenoy, heading that unconqueredregiment to the charge. My grandfather wasallowed to be one of the greatest wits of thepart of the country to which he belonged. Hewas factor to the Earl of Tranquair and theLord Justice Clerk. Besides which he had anestate of his own. Being one day at a sale ofhorses in the neighbourhood, the gentlemanbrought forward a mare, and recommended itto the public as an animal of the first-rateaction. The gentleman asked my grandfatherwhat he would give for the animal. “ Give,”said he, “ I will give you a greyhound dog.”After the battle of Prestonpans, when the dra¬goons fled from the scene of action, and weretaking their flight in a south-west directiona 2gw   — jsm..   .iiiar , •**——.. -—  »*** ‘(ithrough the county of Peebles, my grandfatherraised his tenants, vassals, and dependants, toretard the progress of the Highlanders in theirpursuit of the Royalists. It was said that theEarl of Tranquair raised men for the oppositepurpose. After the rebels were defeated atCulloden, their chiefs were ordered to be sentto the Tower of London to take their trial forhigh treason. The above-mentioned noble¬man was one of this number, and my grand¬father interceded for him to the Lord JusticeClerk. When he called upon him for thatpurpose, his Lordship refused to give him au¬dience on such an errand, and in the course ofa few days he again called, when he still re¬fused ; and when he was a considerable distanceon his way home, a footman belonging to hisLordship overtook him, and said, “Mr: Dick¬son, come back and speak to my Lord,” andhe accordingly returned along with him.When he was introduced to his Lordship, thelatter expressed himself in acondescending man¬ner, and said, “for your sake I will not sendhim.” My grandmother died about this time.My grandfather married a second time, awidow lady with a large family, and she didevery thing she could think of for their advan¬tage, and it is to be regretted that she suc¬ceeded too well, for the first family were leftminus of every thing that he possessed. Hewas rather reduced in finances at the latter partof his life, in consequence of his second wifelooking too much to her own family, and he diedat the advanced age of eighty years.My father, in a fit of rage, seeing how tilingwere, went off' and enlisted in the King’s BodiGuards, where he soon rose to the rank osergeant. This body were all picked men, ancconsisted of one hundred and twenty.—Mjfather was six feet three inches in height, andwas as handsome a man as any in the neigh¬bourhood. This corps was broke by WilliamPitt, then prime minister, and replaced bylighter men and horses. This took place aboutthe end of May, and as the weather was verysultry, he considered it would be better to walkin the night than in the day. As he enteredone of the English towns in the morning, hecame in contact with a recruiting sergeant, anda number of fifer and drummer boys; the ser¬geant desired him to show his discharge, whichhe would, in all probability, have destroyed, andthen taken him up as a deserter. My fathersaid, “ most noble captain, you have risen tooearly this morning, and by mistake have put onthe sergeant’s coat instead of your own.” Fromwords they came to blows; but my father be¬ing a man of great physical powers, overcamehim. During the struggle, the authorities re¬ceived information of the affair, and dispatchedofficers, who seized him ere he was aware, andbefore the battle was terminated, who lodgedhim in jail, to his chagrin and remorse, not onaccount of what he did at the time, but ratherin consequence of what happened afterwards.He was friendless, and a stranger in that partof the country—so he lived as hungry and so¬litary as a mouse in a church. After he had)een in confinement for a few days, a mechanic,vho had the appearance of being a mason,intered his cell about the breakfast hour along.vith the turnkey, and gave him a clap on theshoulder. Says he, “ I believe, Sir, you are adeserter.” My father replied, “you may saywhat you please, but if you be so good as bringme pen, ink, and paper, I’ll let the civic rulersof this town know whom they have in custody.”The other simply said, “you may depend uponreceiving what you wish to-morrow about thistime, if it be in my power.” He was as goodas his word. My father wrote a letter to hisColonel, John William Keir, Marquis of Lo¬thian, Colonel of King George the Third’sBody Guards, and told him the awkward cir¬cumstance in which he was placed, and ananswer was sent to the Magistrates in thecourse of a few days. My father was then li¬berated, and called before a meeting of theCouncil, and as he entered the door of the hall,he was saluted by some of the officials, whosaid, “ Mr. Dickson, pull in a chair and sitdown,” and was received graciously, and treatedto a glass of wine, and paid for the time he wasin imprisonment, when my father made his bowand retired.Before the corps was disembodied, the in¬cidents that happened were numerous. Therewas an English troop, consisting of the samenumber of men as the Scotch, who were oftenat variance the one with the other, so much,that they sometimes came to blows. One ofthe English troopers sent a challenge that hewould fight any two Scotch troopers. Thechallenge was accepted, and the day fixed,when the principal nobility, both English andScotch, came to see the battle. The Scotch¬man was allowed to be superior to any in thetroop in personal prowess: he was 6 feet 5finches on his stocking soles, and was pro¬portionable in all other respects, and, withal, avery comely man, and mild in temper as asleeping sea—but, like that sea, when rousedby storms, none could oppose him with anydegree of success. When the combatants en¬tered the ground, the bully stripped himself tothe skin. The Scotchman was void of science,and put himself to no trouble in preparing forthe contest. When the ground was clear, andthe signal given, the Englishman struck hisantagonist a blow on the right shoulder. TheScotchman said, “ hang him, let him come thatway again !” and as he was coming a secondtime, the Scotchman held out one of his armsin order to parry off’the blow, but the English¬man coming rather hastily in contact with it,he fell down to the ground, and could do nomore, and when victory was proclaimed, bycheers, principally by the Scotch nobility, hetook up the bully in his arms, and threw himabout ten yards from him, to the astonishmentof the nobility and spectators in general.My father, when he was in the Life Guards,sometimes while guarding his Majesty KingGeorge the Third, struck knees with hissovereign, and he was apt to imagine that he wasblood royal at the time.A relation of mine, who was Colonel of the42d Highlanders, commanded that gallantregiment at the celebrated battle of Alexandriain Egypt, and was wounded at the commence¬ment of the engagement, and bled a whole dayin his wounds. His brother officers wishedhim to retire to the rear, but he exclaimed,“ never shall it be said that Dickson has skulk¬ed to the rear in order to save himself.” To¬wards night he became so weak, by loss ofblood, that he had to be supported on horse¬back. He returned home, and was raised tothe rank of a General; but his mind was soaffected by the wounds he received in theservice of his country, that he was never afteraltogether compos mentis. He returned toEdinburgh, where he lived in retirement, ex¬cept occasionally when he was visited by someold veteran. My father, being closely con¬nected, visited him. When he was introducedto the general, he was received in an uncere¬monious and eccentric manner. I was then achild in my father’s arms, and as he enteredthe door, he said, “ who’s this you have got,Walter?” My father replied, “ my son, Tom.”“Those Toms always turn out to be mad fel¬lows.” With that he took me in his arms, andpaced the room with his drawn sword, for henever went without it, and said that I would bea grenadier yet, and then he flourished thesword round his head and mine, and at thesame time exclaimed, “ Let them come for¬ward that dare to insult the name, the blood,of Dickson,” while his eye gleamed with wildand down thele hummed to him¬self the following couplet:—“ O Tom! O Tom ! what made you a sodger ?You might have staid at home and keepit things in order.”While he marched round the room, with mein his arms, the footman entered and said,“ most noble and gallant General, a gentlemanbelow wishes to speak with you, if you are notengaged.” “ Go, sirrah, off immediately, andinform the gentleman that I am pre-engaged:he may call at any future period, this eveningor to-morrow. Off, and give him the right¬about-wheel.”“Well, Walter, you served in the LifeGuards ?” “ Yes, most gallant General, andthey were as fine a body of men as you couldclap an eye upon. Why, they were everyone of them picked men, more especially thebody guards, which was a troop consisting ofone hundred and twenty, and to which I be¬longed. It is now broken by the celebratedMr. Pitt, and changed into another form,composed of lighter men and horses.” “ O,what of that? there never was one of you en¬gaged in battle. Appearance is nothing with¬out reality. It is said you are feather-bedsoldiers, and never were in battle in your lives.”** The Life Guards have since been at a battle, namely,the ever-memorable field of Waterloo, where they signal¬ised themselves in one of the most effective and decisivecharges ever known, and it is in a great measure attri-ferocity. While going upwith me still in his arms,“ Most noble General, such a charge is void oftruth, for there is not a regiment in the servicecould withstand them, because they were' theheaviest, both men and horse.” “ I don’t knowabout that,” said the General, “ for you havedone nothing anyhow. You are just summersoldiers, and look well while the sun shines ;but in the face of a battle you can do little ornothing.” With that, my father began towhistle, “ Scots wha hae wi’ Wallace bled !”and marched up and down the room, with hisbreast heaving with emotion, while his eyegleamed with unconquered courage. TheGeneral observing him in such a state of agita¬tion, said, “O, Walter, I was only trying you,to see if your mind was as great as your body;and it gives me great pleasure to know thatthey are equally large.” My father bowed andretired. One day the General happened tomeet the late Duke of York, who took theliberty of inquiring, “ Dickson, what make’syour face so red ?” “ O, please your RoyalHighness, the dye is not finished.”1 had two uncles. The one was a boatswainon board a man-of-war, and was in activeservice during the long-protracted war withFrance, and foughtWhen storms wild, in succession riseAlong the boundless deep—While swelling seas and tearful skiesMourn, and together weep.buted to them the final victory, by which the Bourbondynasty was restored to the throne of France.13He lived to come home, and I, at the time, hadthe pleasure of seeing him. He was a tall, pow¬erful man, and was said to possess the strengthof any two ordinary men. He had large blackwhiskers, equal in size to my own, if notsuperior. My other uncle was also a sailor,and was on board a small frigate, which wastaken by the French, and all the crew weresent to prison, where it was thought he died,as he was never after heard of.I had several relations of the name of Dick¬son. There were three generations, grand¬father, father, and son, in the Ministry; thegrandfather was well known as the author ofa popular commentary on the Psalms, a workin two volumes, an edition of which was pub¬lished in Glasgow within the last few years.The father was, previous to his death, ministerof the New North Church,, commonly calledHaddie’s Hole, and was much beloved by hiscongregation. He regularly, once a year,visited the whole parish to which he belonged,and did not overlook a single individual, sofarashe knew. He was a very plain, homely, un¬ostentatious, and pious man, and none everwent to the grave more regretted than he was.The son has been for upwards of thirty yearsone of the ministers of the West Church Parishof St. Cuthberts, Edinburgh, and is a plain, goodman—very much respected. He is noted forhis great affability, and does not overlook themeanest of his flock. He possesses the manseadjoining the church, and has a numerousfamily. Although getting up in years, he isBstill a hale, good-looking man, and possessesexcellent health, which, I hope, may long con¬tinue.His colleague, the celebrated Sir HenryMoncriefF, was a man of a very different char¬acter. He was haughty, proud, and aristocratic.If any one went to his noble mansion, forthe purpose of getting married, or desiringbaptism, the answer generally was, “ O, I ammuch engaged at present, go to Mr. Dickson,you will be sure to find him in, and he willlikely be at liberty;” but if any great person,rich in worldly possessions, went to him, thecase was very different. Men and womenservants then flew in every direction, ready toserve and obey. One of his oldest elders, avery decent, religious, and intelligent man, was 'one fine summer evening taking a quiet walkin the neighbourhood of Edinburgh. At alonely part of the road, which was very nar¬row, he met Sir Harry, and took off his hatfor the purpose of saluting him, when the latterwalked on, and took no notice of him. Theelder was so confident that he could not butsee him, that he called a meeting of the session,and charged him with disrespect, unbecomingthe office which he occupied. The case wasfully investigated, but his Reverence broughthimself off by saying that he must have beenin deep meditation, and on that account alonedid not observe him. But it was thoughtat the time, that the case would have beenvery different had the complainant been a richman. Sir Henry was a great Whig, and anenthusiastic admirer of the celebrated Mr. Fox,and attended the anniversary meetings held inmemory of that great statesman, till within ashort period of his death. He was a dignified,reverend looking man, much resembling anEnglish Bishop, and was perhaps the very lastof the Scottish Clergy who wore a cocked hat,which well became him. Notwithstanding hispeculiarities, he was much esteemed by hisflock and all who knew him. He publishedone or two volumes of sermons, which are stillmuch thought of. He died about 12 yearsago, much regretted by his flock, and was suc¬ceeded by the Rev. Mr. Paul, whose father waspredecessor to the Rev. Mr. Dickson.There were several others of the Dicksonfamily, who were bred to the law, and attainedto some eminence in their profession.My father was married about t^ie beginningof the year 1802, to Agnes Hamilton, daughterof John Hamilton, farmer, near Bathgate. Iwas the first-fruit of their union, being bornthe 9th of March, 1803. I was the only childthey ever had, with the exception of one whowas still-born. My father came to the villageof Balmore about the year 1806, and com¬menced working as a labourer. He continuedin this way of life, going from one farm-houseto another in the neighbourhood, living in avery retired and humble manner. His meansbeing very limited, L was brought up in a veryhardy way, and was sent to the parish schoolin the year 1809, where I continued till theyear 1812. My mother died in the year 1810,16of inflammation in the bowels. She was avery strong, healthy, young woman ; and byher death I was deprived of one of my naturalguardians. At this period, young as I was, Ifelt the loss heavily, as I could perceive thatshe was a very frugal and industrious woman,and was doatingly fond of me, being her onlychild. I likewise from my birth had the mis¬fortune of wanting the power of the right side,which has more or less continued to the presentday; and I well remember being conscious thather love for me was doubly sincere on thisaccount. A very singular circumstance hap¬pened in relation to this defect, which is wellknown and spoken of in the village and neigh¬bourhood to the present day. I happenedone day, while a youth, to pass a farmer’s door,whose wife was standing at the threshold. Shetauntingly aod unfeelingly called after me,“cripple Dick,” and some other opprobriousepithets. Soon after this she was brought tobed of a son, which resembled me in everyparticular of my defect. I have often thoughtthat people should be extremely cautious in theirobservations upon the dispensations of Provi¬dence ; and here was a remarkable instance ofpunishment for interfering with the high pre¬rogative of Heaven.I went to the parish school, which was situ¬ated in the village called Fluchter, being themost central hamlet in the parish, where I re¬mained till I was about 13 years of age.The hamlet has nothing remarkable. Theschool-master’s residence is the only house ofmodern appearance and seeming dignity, whichis generally the case with all houses where theoccupiers are connected with church orstate; therest of the houses or cottages have the appear¬ance of ages past and gone. There is a publiclibrary in the village, of which the minister ispresident, and the school-master librarian ; butthere are few, if any, readers, the people havinga better idea of fur draining than literatureor the fine arts. It is a fact that man, in manyinstances, is a passive creature; he eats, hedrinks, labours, sleeps, and propagates hisspecies, and seems, for the most part, to re¬gard nothing else.There are three singular characters in thevillage. One is a weaver, who was preses tofour societies in one year, namely, the Libra¬rian Society; the Society for Watching theDead; the Farmer’s Humane Society; and theLabourer’s Society. Thus the local honourswere heaped upon his noble head. Anotherwas an Auctioneer, a Grocer, and a Tailor, allwithin the same time—so if man cannot live bythe way as he journeys through life, it is notfor deficiency of trades. The last of the threewas engaged in the ever-memorable battle ofTrafalgar, and is healthy and strong at thepresent day.The village of Balmore lies about a mile tothe south-east of the above-mentioned littlehamlet, and there is no direct high-way to it,and people often go round about seeking thenearest. There is, however, a foot-paththrough fields, hills, and vallies. There is a15 2—— is  —rivulet skirts the foot-path a considerable partof the way, and passes the farm-house ofTemple. I know of three or four farms of thef same name, within a few miles of each other,| which are said to have been left by pious per¬sons for the good of the Church, and hencetheir name. The farm of Temple, through(which is the public foot-path, is in the estateof Glenorchard, a little distance from the man¬sion house, which stands to the south-east, situ¬ated in a vale or glen, rather upon risingground, and is secluded and retired. Thehouse is modern and commodious. The pro¬prietor, Robert Gray, Esq., Justice of Peace,i is an upright and benevolent gentleman. Dur¬ing the successive depressions of trade, most ofthe weavers in the village of Balmore weredestitute of employment. He always suppliedthem with work when they could find it no¬where else. They are a very industrious classof men, with a very few solitary exceptions;for they have a proverb in the place, “ for ifye dinna look to yourself, wha’ll do it,” whichis equivalent to the English proverb, that“prosperity gains friends, and adversity triesthem.”Several of the weavers are remarkable forindustry. One, in particular, whose movementis like the wheels of a railway carriage, goeson without any interruption, so much, thathe has impaired his health by hard labour andtoo constant confinement. His powers of di¬gestion are materially deranged, which is causedprincipally by exertion and sedentary employ-mm?Ament. He has a number of sprightly daughters,Who have a blith laughing' eye,More fair than the summer sky,When not a cloud intervenes,But all with enchantment gleams.I sometimes call at the house to relax thenerves of my mental and physical body, andpass the time with laughing, winking, and suchlike frivolity which youth, madness, and loveso abundantly possess, and lavishly dispose of,and ask no returns beyond your own pleasure.They have a great many gallants, and are there¬fore more of the coquet on that account, for itis always the case that the girls who have agreat many lovers are more waggish and de¬ceptive than girls that have few or none. Theirlittle heart is generally fortified by loquacity,light and trifling, and often without meaning.It often becomes disgusting. The world is apicture, having two representations on bothsides. The one is a landscape variegated withflowers and fruit trees, in luxurious abundance—with rivers and rivulets of the purest water,winding and meandering along a fruitful anddelightful landscape. The other side is a re¬presentation dark and gloomy as when night’ssable mantle is spread from horizon to horizon.Storms howl along its dreary waste, where nota vestige of vegetation exists, to beguile theload of care which depresses humanity,While oceans heave on high.And kningle with the mournful sky.iftrf . ■ —..1. if I .    I —F ■The young and inconsiderate always beholdthe fair side of the picture, while those advancedin age and consideration always behold thedismal scenes on the opposite side, and it makesan impression upon their disposition and vis¬age, until many of them become insane, andcommit suicide, and are glad to get clear ofexistence. While, on the other hand, thelight-headed and inconsiderate treat everything in a frivolous manner; therefore theirspirits are light, their cheeks are blooming, andtheir breast happy.After I left the school, I wandered aboutfrom one farm-house to another, because I wasdestitute of both friends and money: some¬times acting in the capacity of stable-boy andcow-herd. On some occasions, on account ofthe hardness of the work, and bad usage, with¬out giving any notice, I went away. 1 herdedoften upon a delightful vale called BalmoreHaugh, which, in extent, is from 200 to 300acres, and is bounded by the river Kelvin onthe south, and the garden and policies of theMansion - house of Cadder, belonging toArchibald Stirling, Esq., of Keir, Kenmure,Cadder, &c. It is bounded on the north bythe public road that leads to Kirkintilloch,Milngavie, Campsie, &c., and upon the west,in the distance, is seen the Mansion-house ofKillermont, and upon the north-east is seenthe celebrated hills called Campsie Fells.The soil of the vale is very prolific, andcapable of producing any sort of crop, butapt to be overflowed with water. While I21was attending the cows, I used to bathe, andbecame an expert swimmer, so that few or nonecould compete with me. When I grew up tonear manhood, I generally went from house tohouse, and rose in the morning at four or fiveo’clock, and thrashed grain till breakfast-time.I remember of coming once to a house to askpermission to remain for the night, and themaster would not allow me to lie in the barnfor the night. It is worthy of notice, that onthat very night the barn was burned, alongwith all that it contained, to the ground, andI providentially escaped.One house, in particular, I made my head¬quarters, and generally stopped there on theSaturday and Sunday evenings. The land¬lord was a good, honest, even-down country¬man, and was kind and indulgent to everyperson, and lived respected, and died justlyregretted by all who knew him. He had sixsons. The oldest was an ingenious mechanic,and could put his hand to anything. Thesecond was destitute of these attainments, butwas a very good farmer. The third was liketoo many in this world, who attempt to makean appearance different from what they reallyare. The fourth was a remarkably hard work¬ing man, and celebrated for game and bottom, asthe pugilist would term it. The fifth was astrapping youth, likely to a woman’s eye, andseemed always cheerful and happy. The sixth,and youngest, a promising youth, had nearlycompleted his time as a civil engineer, whenhe was cut off prematurely. There were three22daughters, who are still unmarried, and seemlikely to continue so. They appear by theirmanner to be indifferent about matrimony, andseem to think they are better as they are. Notonly them, but the whole neighbourhood, areremarkable for a state of single blessedness,which is, perhaps, the easiest state in an ageso remarkable for self-interest, when every onecares not who lives or whd dies, sobeit theyare living and happy themselves.On one occasion a circumstance happenedin the family, in the following manner:—Itbeing harvest time, and while they were busilyemployed reaping, they had cut their hands;and in consequence, a report had spread in theneighbourhood that such had taken place. Ihappened to mention it to one of these depen¬dants who stop at nothing for their own per¬sonal aggrandisement. This individual wentand told that I was the original propagator ofthe report, which I was not, and received sometrifling recompense for his supposed service.Likely it would not be much, for the peasantryof the North can hold as well as the people of theopposite direction can pull. Even the Clergyare remarkable for receiving the filthy lucre ofthis world, but not for putting it out, howeverdestitute the wretch that implores assistance orrelief.One morning, about 5 o’clock, as I was lyingsleeping in one of their out-houses, connectedwith a cottage of which they were proprietors,and there being only a division between thestable and the premises, which communicatedby a door technically called a heck door, thedaughter of the house opened the door, whenall at once entered four clod-polls with pitchersof water, wild with madness and frolic,—butif it was fun, it was at my expense, which onlythose in the lower regions could delight in.When they came to my bed, which was uponthe ground, made up of straw and a few oldsacks, and I was lying wanting my shirt, (forI always sleep without one,) they pouredthe whole contents about me, which was aboutfifteen gallons. I was more than astonishedto know what it was, while they made theirescape before I had time to recollect myself,for it is some time after we are awake beforewe know what we are about; and when I reallywas aware what had been done, what were theemotions of my breast! they were too acute forthe feelings of an injured heart, while I ex¬claimed, has Heaven preserved me for a fatelike this—to endure all, and take nothing amiss?By Kelvin’s verdant and flowery banks, ofthave I roamed in the calm summer evening,when the sun was about to sink behind thefar-famed Ben Lomond, so celebrated in his¬tory and song, to ponder upon the beauties ofnature. The melodious thrush sang delight¬fully from the embowered woods of CadderHouse, and seemed to impart a charm to thevale in the vicinity, while a rival repeated thenotes still more loud and clear, from a woodsome distance, known by three distinct names,Faulswood, Ebenezerwood, or the Black Plan¬tain.There is perhaps not in this world a sceneso delightful as to walk by the side of a river,in a summer eve, when not a breeze disturbsthe atmosphere, and the moon shines brightfrom an unclouded sky, while the evening staris seen in the extreme horizon, and seems topour a flood of light and joy on objects belowits smiling rays, while the moon holds forthher joyous journey along the vale, and cheersevery flower with exquisite harmony and love,and the dew-drop suspended from the hawthornblossom that decks the neighbouring woodscontiguous to the margin of the river, or gentlykiss the lily’s breast, as the fond mother claspsher darling babe to her heart, where affectionsglow, kind and indulgent as pity’s tears thatare shed upon the head of the destitute and ■forlorn. The workers return to their night’srepose, while the black-bird and mellow thrushprolong and chaunt their evening hymn tonature—not only nature, but the Architect ofnature, by the side of the embankment ofsmooth - running Kelvin, while primroses,—daisies, forget-me-not, and the queen of themeadow, grace with beauty, unrivalled by art,its verdant banks.O love ! O love is like the skiesWhen robed with silver light;While jasper seas in splendour vies,And bless the golden night.O love ! O love is like the springWhen gentle breezes blow:But, O never will pleasure bringTo the sad victim’s woe !O love ! O love is like a flowerThat decks the dewy mead,But soon the chilling blast sweeps o’er.And cause the heart to bleed.It was on one of those nights when the queenof night’s soft beams illuminated hill, vale, andmountain with a degree of splendour whichwords cannot comprehend, while the river it¬self seemed like a sheet of glass, or thousandsof bright mirrors, I happened to be walkingalong the Kelvin, thinking upon my forlornstate, which is destitute of almost all the ordi¬nary comforts of life, with one solitary excep¬tion, namely, health. The villagers considerme insane, or what they term daft, and shouldhave no encouragement from them on that ac¬count, and they seem to think that this worldshould be inhabited by people that are wise,who endeavour to the utmost of their abilitiesto put in practice that thread-bare principle,“ Haud awa’ Hame,” which is so much ap¬proved by men in every grade of society, andhas been the chief cause of misery to thousands.When man lives in society to be selfish, anddisregards every one’s interest but his own, itderanges society, for society is like a machine.When one part is broken or disordered theother parts will not work, hence, I believe, isthe chief cause of stagnation, depression, des¬titution, and m/ ^Kl  ''Hy. ( OF SCOTLAND r)for it was not man’s original purpose to em¬ploy his time in this world like a mud-rake topull all into him, and endeavour, to the utmostof his power, to gain, it matters not who arethe losers. Society, or the base of society, isformed mutually: the one depends on theother. I believe all the evils proceed from ourselfish nature, and a great many wish to behappy at the expense and misery of millions.When I had just emerged into my teens, be¬ing healthy and of a warm temperament, lisp¬ing love stole gently o’er my soul, while myheart heaved with emotions soft and tender asthe evening zephyrs that gently wipes the tearfrom the flowerets fair, when thegoddessof nightgladdens up the vale with joy and delight,while rapture lends the magic wand to everyobject all around. Beauty then has charmsdoubly attractive to those that are of a con¬templative disposition. I being rather of areflective and retired habit, the more I ponderedhow to escape from the silver fetters of love, Ifound my fetters more rivetted and secure, andI languished in pain, if not in despair, withoutone of the dear creatures to set me at liberty.Wherever I turned my attention every prettyface made a deep impression upon me, and ifthey smiled, my bosom heaved with emotionsthat cannot be well described, and the bloodrushed into my face. My countenance becamecheerful, almost happy, and I was ready to ex¬claim, “O pity, pity, charming nymph, andwound the victim not again, with those eyes sofull of darts, that penetrate my very heart—aheart so sensitive, and full of emotions acuteand tender.”Oft, then, they have laughed me to scorn,while their eyes assumed a repulsive indiffer¬ence, if not contempt, whose looks seemed toimply that however fair the form without, theheart did not correspond, and therefore I thoughtit was a pity that such a fair creature, capable ofcharming and enslaving every man that camein her way, should have so cruel a heart as toglory in the torture she had inflicted, and itseemed to give her pleasure the more that Isuffered by the cruel glances from her eyes.Others would run off with a half-suflbcatedlaugh, that was apt to direct one to wherethey had fled, while I exclaimed, O come sweetmaid, and resume thy willing empire o’er thewilling mind, or, whither hast thou gone, andleft me here alone, to mourn thy absence ?The sun may smile, and rivers flow, and flower¬ets deck the plain: from me ye’ve fled, andleft me to complain. Is there in this world aheart that feels all the horrors of disappoint¬ment, which too often humanity cannot sur¬mount with a degree of fortitude and strengthnecessary to bear up the drooping spirit of achequered life ? It is not materially necessarywhat is the object we have in view, howeverimportant or trifling—it is of no consequence,so be the mind wishes to gain and possess it,though often we are disappointed by the realor imaginary advantage gained by the posses¬sion of such an object. Such is the case witha fine woman ; we anticipate more than it ispossible for man to realise. From this sourceflows the bitter stream of life.I have had many sweet-hearts — at leastsweet faces, and as for their hearts I knownothing about them, who all appeared to payless or more attention towards me; but I foundthat I was to encounter a host of difficulties,which here it would be tedious to commentupon. I shall only mention a few examples,which I consider to be obstacles in the wayof my happiness, such as parents who did notapprove of me, and rivals—the parents becauseI was in rather destitute circumstances in life,and had not what was necessary to keep awoman comfortable, in their estimation, andseemed to have forgotten the old Scottish pro¬verb, viz. “ Marry for love and work for siller,”which is often neglected by the parents andguardians of the fair sex, for they often bestowtheir favour on those that have the most of thecoveted things of this world ; and thus often itis the case that the poor creature has not aheart to lose, or if she has, it is but seldomconsulted, but disposed of without mercy tothe best and highest bidder. The rivals gene¬rally took all the advantage of me, and evenstormed the fair garrison of hope, and laidwaste my fondest hopes.Emma, my first love, was the youngestdaughter of Gilbert Rosefield, who possessed intack the farm of Rowantreefauld from a neigh-bourinor gentleman. Emma was slender, andof a genteel form, with fine Asiatic eyes, andof a florid complexion. Her father had beenblessed with a great many daughters, all ofwhom were remarkable for being frank andfree, and for outside appearance could be ex¬celled by none. They had, upon that account,a great many lovers, and there was not a placeso famed around the country-side among thepeasantry. Therefore it was not to be won¬dered that they had sweet-hearts in variety,among whom I was included, as being themost simple and insane, and was said to besomewhat slow in the movement. But whenpeople are judges in their own cause, it is gene¬rally decided favourable to themselves. Inthe evenings the young men generally assem¬bled in the smithy or nearest change-house,where they usually consulted if they were allagreeable to go and see the girls, and some¬times a night w'as settled before the meeting,when they would have a frolic among the fairmaids in the neighbourhood, technically termeda gelt, and old Rowantreefauld and his daughterswere always the first to call at, and sometimesthe old man was in bed, or by the fireside athis devotions. When we came there, wefound other youths had the ladies pre-en¬gaged, and therefore we were left minus, whichenraged a number of our body. One nightsome of my companions stopped the vent ofthe chimney with a truss of straw, having pre¬viously secured all the doors of the house, sothat none could escape, while our antagonistswere sitting by the kitchen fire in the companyof the girls, and the old mother was knittingstockings. They endured the smoke with ac 230degree of patience seldom surpassed by any insimilar circumstances. I was told by one whowas in the house at the time, that “ the smokewas that thick, Dickson, at the time, that youf might have cut it with a knife and fork, and| ate it as you would a daud of beef.” The oldwife began to cough. Says she, “ Lassocks, I. find an unco youder, heigh, heigh, what’s thatf , o’t ?” “ O, mither,” replied all the daughters,[! “the him is stappit, and the reek is a’ comingdown.” The smoke had now reached oldGilbert, who was snugly ensconsed in bed.He gave a sneeze and a cough like a whalewhen taken from its natural element, to die un-v| pitied on shore, while he exclaims, “what’sthat ye’ve burnin’ on the fire, bodies. Heighsaf" us, it is a fleesome smeik !” Emma ranben and told him that the lum was stappit.“O, faither, faither, the lum is stappit,” andthe old man cried out, “the vagabond loons !they are ower idle through the day, or elsethey wadna rin through a kintra after it ismirk.” With that he rises from bed, putson his breeches, and his feet in his slippers,and moves as quickly as possible towards thedoor, while one of the daughters sitting atthe fireside cried out, “ O, faither, faither,ye’ll no’ won out, for the door is tied wi’ arape.”Upon my remonstrating with my companionson the impropriety of their conduct, (for if theyhad taken my advice they would not havestopped the vent nor secured the door,) theyat length opened the door and took the straw- -3T1 from the vent, and left the inmates at liberty /*51 to do what they chose, while we skulked in the(yard amongst the stacks, and it was never1 known who was concerned in the proceedings: of that night. I remember of running throughi the stack-yard, and got myself covered in aI bed of greens, where I lay as flat as a flounder,i: quaking for fear I would be found out. WhileII was in this position a number of voices as-i sailed my ears : “ Hang them, whare are they ?[{Confound their rotten sides. If we had themllthat stekit the door and stappit the lum, we^ would briz their heads till they were as saft as[Sgelly.” “O, but they’ll no’ be gotten,” repliedij another voice. They ran down through theli stack-yard, but they did not find me ; and had1; they come through the greens, I was sure torhave been taken. I never knew what became<of my companions, how they made theirs escape.Emma was the flower of that country-side,a according to the opinion of the peasantry.i: She was cheerful, and treated every subjectv, with a degree of levity that showed that hera heart had not been wounded wfith previousa sorrow, the canker-worm of all our joys./.Much, in my opinion, have we to enjoy in thiswworld, but much more to endure: sad expe-rrience tells me so. Never till this blessedthour have I been doomed to enjoy the girl ofumy fond affection. It is said that “the coursekof true love never runs smooth my pooruheart knows the melancholy fact—doomed buta to behold the object of its fond regard in the*OSpossession of some more fortunate swain, whileI stand alone, disregarded by friends or foes,who smile at my forlorn situation.Emma had a great number of lovers, and,of course, it has been said that wealth makeswit waver. It was the case, for her mindwavered and was tossed as the little billow bythe sporting and the merciless winds. At lasta demon in human form laid siege to her fickleheart with deception’s oily tongue, and ere shewas aware, her treasure it was lost. Wealthof empires and of kingdoms her loss couldnot restore her health and treasure back againto its original possessor, and give that peace ofmind to conscious innocence which a heart thatis pure has always a face that never blusheswith the blush of guilt, which vice and crimi¬nality, with all their guilt, cannot hide fromthe most careless observer. Pale were thecheeks that once could vie with the rose inbeauty, when robed with heaven’s brightesttear. Her form became emaciated ; her eyessank in her head with ghastly stare, and everylook was full of horror and despair. One day"I met her as she carelessly roamed along theflowery vale, and as I appeared in sightshe shunned me as one would shun a serpentin the path, while I exclaimed, “O, Emma,shun me not—not for worlds would I harmyou: may the wretch that harmed thee feel allthe stinging horrors of an awakened conscience—may peace and hope forsake his cruel breast,and every comfort, till life’s expiring term.”She moved along regardless of my soothingwords, with wild irregular steps. At last shegave a shriek, and sunk pale and motionless tothe earth, as one caught by the unerring handof death all at once, and when I saw her fall,I hastened with all my speed—I raised her inmy arms ; pale as the fallen snow was her face,and bloodless were her hands: her pulseseemed not to beat. I laid her head on abower of flowers, and ran with all the haste Icould to a neighbouring brook, and broughta draught of its crystal contents to the fair onewho was lying in a swoon, while I expressedmyself thus—“ O murdering sorrow, sheaththy sword again, and give not my fair one somuch pain.” I took a little of the water, andrubbed her temples and her hands. Sheoped her eyes and faintly said, “ Where amI now in this world, but to meet another woe,ithat in succession come as wave follows wave,and lash the friendless shore, amidst theI horrors of the storm.” I gave her a drink,and conducted her home, while she leaned up-i|pn my shoulder the whole of the way. Herupale and lank visage would inform the mostijcasual observer that the thorn of anxiety had^penetrated deeply into her gentle and desertednbosom—deserted by the only object of its fondland tender regard. As we entered the house,(Ishe gave a sudden scream, wiki as the lone sea-iibird that shrieks along the mountain billowstjamidst the horrors of the mournful night, and;swas going to fall, when I grasped her roundthe waist, and supported her. Her motherHsaid, “ O, Emma, what’s the matter?” whenshe only could express herself in half-brokensighs, while in her eyes gleamed the franticravages of despair, which rvords could notcomprehend. Her chest heaved violently atevery respiration, which showed the anguishof a wounded heart and soul. At length shesaid, with disconsolate voice, “ No hope is leftfor me in this bleak world: my only hope isfled, ah, never to return. The man on whommy fond and artless heart too much doated,sighed—I believed him true: he gained myheart, then, like the ruthless spoiler that strews cthe beauteous boquet to the scorching rays ofsummer heat, regardless of its fragrant sweets,so did my faithless lover gain what he wished,for one momentary enjoyment left me miser¬able, alas, for life !”I placed her in a chair, a little distance fromthe fire, while the whole family surrounded her.All appeared, by their looks, to be deeply con¬cerned for her fate; and the feelings of hermother can be better appreciated than de¬scribed. The whole family were bathed in^tears at her forlorn situation.—The father,taking me aside, asked my opinion with regardto his daughter. I said her case was doubtful,if not dangerous. 1 told him, that, in myhumble opinion, a medical man ought to besent for: he said he wrould do as I ad¬vised. In about half an hour a messenger wasdispatched to the nearest town or village for aphysician. The messenger, accompanied bythe Doctor, arrived within an hour and a half.He felt her pulse, and while her father and35mother, and the whole family, looked so wildand earnestly in the Doctor’s face, her fatherasked his opinion with regard to his daughter.The Doctor shook his head, and gave one ofthose known looks which all Professionals at¬tempt to perform, with a degree of prior excel¬lence, superior to the plebeian race, whoselooks are generally bewildered in an ignorantand stupid stare, that seems indifferent whetherthey look or not, and then when they do look,Jt is only when they cannot help it. TheSurgeon, however, advised that she should im¬mediately be put to bed, as being the mostlikely place for her ultimate recovery. Hei took a small phial from his pocket, and desiredher mother to give her six drops in the evening,'and she would likely fall into an agreeablesleep afterwards; after that she was to get sixin the morning, and these would more thanlikely soothe and calm her harassed spirits.1 With that he departed, promising to call erelong, and wished her soon a happy recovery."Emma’s father and myself conducted him a:| few miles on his road home. I inquired atI him what was her disease. He said it wasnot in the body, but he believed it was in themind, and passion was the occasion, and hadagitated her whole system, which passion willdo, however masculine or effeminate the form: may be. When the mind is diseased, the bodyl is not in good condition, and generally provesIfatal to the latter. These passions become un-jcontrollable and arbitrary in their sway overthe sensitive soul.AS36Emma gradually became worse, and at last Iterminated her existence surrounded by herparents and relations. The following epitaph.I was anxious to place upon her grave-stone,but her father disapproved of it:—Beneath this stone lies a beauteous form,That seldom is by sinful mortals worn.A villain sighed, and won, by seduction’s art,The fond affections of a tender heart.What more, a gen'rous soul will not express.She sigh’d he smil’d, and left her in distress.Lo, insanity forlorn did succeed,And laid her low to mingle with the dead.SONG.Come awa, my lassie, to Kelvin side,Whare crystal streamlets smoothly glide ;Then come, my lassie, for I lo’e you dear,1 ha’e a heart that’s aye sincere.There the dew-drap decks the lily fair,Brighter than the tears o’ despair.Where the gowan fine blooms on Kelvin side,And gentle as the flowing Clyde.When summer mild strays o’er the flowery leaCheery as thy sweet blinking e’e—Frae Caddcr greenwood sings the mavis sweet,Where trees, flowers, and woodbines meet,And form a happy bow’r o’ fairy hue,Mair lovely than the falling dew'.The sun is low, the silver moon is high,And gladsome is the evening sky.THE END.