PEKSWASIVE®To frequentCQMMVNIOK.ByJohn Tillotfon, D. D.*r4APrinted bv the Heir of Andrew Andtr* • '(ftif Printer to the King’s moft Sacred Mdjefa )Anno Don. id88.k-yfer •- . C* OF SCOTIAND ,f■y.   —.t.Perjrvajive to frequent Communion'; Cor, ll. 16, 27, 28.r as oft as ye eat this bread,and drmkjhis cup, ye do fhtvjthe Lord<s death till he come,here fore 'whofoever shall eat this bread, and cfrink^ this cupof the Lord unworthily, ts guilty of the body andbloodofthe Lord-ft lei a man examine himfelf, and fo let him of that bread,\nd dr mkjsf that cup,Y defigninthis Argument is, fromhe confideration of the Nature of^his Sacrament of the Loyd's Suffer^and of the perpetual life of it to theend of the world, to awaken men toa fenfe of their Dtlty, and the greatiligation which lyes upon them to the more fre-tent receiving of ic. And there is the great-need to make men fenfible of their duty intis particular, becaufc in this lafl Age by theiwarry difcourfes of fome, concernirgthe na-ire of this Sacrament , and the danger of re-jiving it unworthily, fuch doubts and fears have:en raifed in the minds of men as utterly tode-rr many,and In a great meafureto difcouragemod the generality of Chridians from the ufef ir; to the great prejudice and danger of mens»uls, and the Ylfihle abatement of piety by therofs negleft of fo excellent a means of qur grouchad improvmtht in it j and to the mighty fcan-1! of our Religion, by the general difufe andanrempt of fo plain and folemn an Indlcu*on of ourblefled Lord and Saviour.Therefore I dial take occafion as briefly ScclearlTI can to. treat ofthefe fw points. Fir ft,Fir]}, Of the Firptmitj of thii lafiitutiott. this the Apolllei Cor. ii. 26. when he faith, that fcy tsti.this bnad, and drinking tktup , ret do fbrw tbt Lord's death till ht come.Secondly, Of the Obligation that lyes upon aChrifiians to a frequent obfervance of this Itfiitution ; this is fignified in th-t exprefTjon (1the Apoftle, as ofttn as ye eat this bread, antlrin^this cup ; Which txprtflion coniiderfand compared together with the praftice of tlPrimitive Church, does imply an obligation upon Chrifiians to the frequent receiving of this Srcranient.Thirdly , I fhal endeavour to fattsne the 0vStions and Scruples, which have been railed ithe minds of men; and particularly cf many d«vout and finccre Chriliians, to^ their great dicouragement from their receiving this Sacr;m^-nt, at leaft (o frequently as they cught:WhicObjeftions are chiefly grounded upon winthe Apoftle fays, IVktrefore wkof tvv (bal eat th.bread, and dnnk^ii cup of the Lord unworthyis guilty of the body and blood oj the Lord: acdoth eaf and drir\ damnation to bttnfilfFourthly, What Preparation^ our[elvesismcefiarvin order to our worthy receiving ot uSacrament: which will give me oecafion to explain the Apoflle‘s meaning in.thefe word.Ver. 28. But let a man examine himjelf, and }let him sat of that b'ud,and dunk of that cup.I. For the Perperuity o! this Inlittutton, invplved in thofe words. For at »/tt» ibn*A, and dri^this cup, yeLoad's death till he tome, cr the %v c rdi may tt^mpemivelr, and by w*y cf precept, Sb^\ forth tbt Lord's dtith till hi com. I‘i tliejirec vtrfts im-ncdinly Ijeforc, the Apofllelarticularly declaresthe Inftiturionof thit Sacra*'.ent, with the manner and circumftances of ir,■; he had received it,* notonly by tlie hands ofie Apoflles, but, a* the Words (eem rather toitirmre,by immediate Revel,itibn front our Lordimfclf, Ver. 2$. For Ihtvirtciivtd of the Lord)tt which I Mlfo delitertd unto you •, tbtt the,ord Jtfus in the fame night tluthtrvos betrtjei,jw^bredi, tnd when be b<tdgiven things he hrt^eandfaid, ta^e, e.it, this is mj body which >so^ih for you this do in remembrance of me. Afo•r the fome manner t!fo httoo^ the cup when he hadipped, faying, this tup is the ntwTt(ltment in myioud: this do as often as ye (ha l drin^it inremem-■ance tf me. So that the Infiitution it in thefe:7ordr, Ibis do in remembrance of me. la whichlords our Lord commands his Difciples after his;*eath, to repeat thefe occafions , of taking andceasing and eating the Bread , and of drinkingthe cup , by way of foiemn Commemoration’fHim. Now whether this was to be done byitem once only, .or ofmer, and whether by tljedfciples only, during their lives, or byailChri-ians afterwards In ail fucceflive Ages of tliehurch, is not fo certain, merely from the forcef thefe words , Do this in remembrance of me :mt what the Apoftle adds , puts the matterttofall doubt , that the Inflbution of this Si-.rament was intended, not only for the Apoflfes,id for that Age, but for all Chriflianj, and for,1 Ages of the Chriftian Church ; For as oftenlit ye eat this bread, and drin^ this cup , ye do■•ewtbeLord's death titihe come •, that is, untilic time of his fecond coming , which will beA 3 , atat the end of the World. So that this Sacrametwas defigned to be a (landing Commemoraticof the Death and PafiTnn of our Lord tihe (hould come to Judgement; andconfequen]y the Obligation that lyes upon Chriftianstthe obfervation of it is perpetual, and fbal neveceafe to the end of the World.So that it is a vain conceit and meer dream «the Enthufiafls , concerning the fecuUm fpiritlfundi,the Age and difpenfation of the holy Ghofwhen, as they fuppofe, all humane teaching fhceafe, and all external Ordinances andlnflitutons in Religion(hal vanifh , and there lhal benfurther ufe of them : Whereas it is very platfrom the New Teftamcnt, that Prayer, and ouward Teaching , and the ufe of the two Sacr;ments, were intended to continue among Chrfiians in ali Ages. As for Prayer, (befidesoinatural obligation to this duty, if there were rrevealed Religion ) we are by our Saviour piticularly exhorted to Watch and Pray, with r*gard to the day of Judgment, and in confidention of the uncertainty of the time when it fh.be:. And therefore this will always be a Outincumbent upon Chriftians till the day of Judjimeat, becaule it is preferibed as one of the be#ways of preparation for it. That Outfit"lucking likewife andBaptifm were intended tibe perpetual, is no lefs plain, becaufe Chrifl hat• exprefly promifed to be with the Teachers tIi(i Church in the ufe of thefe Ordinances to rhend of the World. (MAttb. 28. 19, 20. Go anpifciple all Nations,baptizing them in the Narr6f the Father, and of the Son, and of the hoiGhoft: and lo, I am with you always to the enof the World.) Not only to the end of that partcuLuhr Age, but to the end of the Gofpel-Age, andhe confumm'at'on of all Ages , as the phrafeleariy imports. And it is as plain from this Text,lat the Stcrimtni of the Lola's Supper was inren-ed for a perpetual Inftitution in the Chrifiian-hiirch,till the fccond coming of Chrift, vi\. hi*’oming to judgment: BecaufeSr. Paul tells us,hat by thefe Sacramental Signs the Death ofjhrifl is to be reprefented, and cotnmemorat-d till he come. Do this in remembrance of me,>r as oft as je eat this Bread , and drin^this<up, jedofhew the Lord's Death till become.\ And if this be the End and life of this Sacri-icd'j to be a folemn remembrance of the Deathnd Sufferings of our Lord, during Ivs abfenceomut; that is, till his coming to Judgement,aen this Sacrament will never be out of date tillhe fecond coming of our Lord. The confidera-[ion whereof fhould mightily ftrengthen andincourage our Faith, in the hope of Eternal Life,) often as we partake of this Sacrament; fincciur Lord hath left it to us as a memorial of him*df till he come , to tranflate his Church intoleaven, and as a Cure pledge that he will comegain at the end of the World , and invert us intat Glory, which he is now gone before to pre-are for us. So that as often as we approach theable of the Lord, we fhould comfort our felve*'ith the thoughts of that bleffed time, whenc fhall eat and drink with him in his Kingdom,nd fhail be admitted to the great Feafi of the.amb, and to eternal Communion with God, theudge of all, and with our bleffed and glorifiedredeemer, and the hoiy.Angels, and the Spiritsf Jurt men made perfeft.And the fame confidcration fhould likewlfe• truHcmake _ui afraid to receive this Sacrament ut^worthily , without due Preparation for ir, antiwithout worthy effefts of it upon o&r H artsand Live*. Becaufe of that dreadfuil fentence ojcondemnation, which at the fecond coming o|our Lord fhall be pad upon thofe, who by th»Jprofanation ofthisfolemn/nftitution trample unfder foot the Son of God,and contemn the blou4of the Covenant ; that Covenant of Grace anttjMercy, which God hath ratified with Mankindby the Bloud of hi* Son. The Apofile tells u4that hi that tttith end drin^eth unworthily, igkiltj of the body end bloud of the Lord, end taiftth end drinfytb demnetion to himftlf. This inidetd isfpokenof temporal Judgment ( as I fhallfhew in the latter part of this Difcourle ) bujthe Apoflle likewife fuppofeth, that If thefe tetrtjporal Judgments had not their effeft , to brittj||men to repentance, but they dill perfided in th ijprofanation of this holy Sacrament, they fhou!ii|at lafi be condemned with the iforld. For as h«|that pirtaktth worthily of this Sacrament, ccnfirm* hi; intered in the protnifes of the Gofpdtand his Title to eternal life ; fo he that receive!this Sacrament unworthily, that is, without dureverence, and without fruits meet for it; naylen the contrary, continue* to live in fin whiid hicommemorats the death of Chrld, who gave himitfelf for us, that he might redeem us from all ini.ejuity. tins man aggravatsand feah his own damraiicn , becaufe he j* guilty of the body ambloud of Chrift, rot only by the conten ptofiibut by renewing 'n feme fort the caufe ofbhfuffcrings , and as u uctejC’Mrifiring to kimf/tf efrtlthe Lord oj life end glory, end putting him to en optnfheme. And when the great Judge of the Workdialill appear, and oafs final fentenee upon men,;h obftjnate and impenitent Wretches as couldit be wrought upon, by the remembrance ofedeareft love of their dying Lord, nor been-ged to leave their fins by all the ryes and ob¬lations of thi; holy Sacrament, (hall have their^rtion with Piltti and Judas , with tht chiifritjls and Souldim, w ho were the betrayers andurtherersoftheLordof life and glory; andfhall: dealt withal as thofe who are in fome fort.f kilty' tht body and bloud tf tht Lord. Which fevereireatning ought notto difeourage men from theicrament, but to deterr all thofe from their fins,ho think of engaging themfelves to God by fo:lemn and holy a Covenant. It Is by no meansfuffi .lent reafon to make men to fly from the Sa-rame1ft,but certainly one of the moft powerfulrguments in the world,to make men forfake theirns; as l fhall (hew more fully in the third headf th s Difcourfe.! 11. The Obligation that lyes upon all Chrifli-Irsto the frequent obfervance and practice of[jhis Infihution. For though It be not neceftanlyrimfdyed In thefe words, as oft as ye tat this breadn*d drin^this cap; ytt if we compare thele wordsH.f the Afoflle with the Ofage and praflice of Chri-idians at that time, which was to communicare inlihis holy Sacrament, fo often as they fokmnly:tret togrher to worfliip God, they plainly fup-loofe and recommend ro us the frequent ufe ofJhis Sacrament, or rather imply an obllgadon up-bn Chriftians to embrace "11 opportunui s of re¬ceiving It. For the fenfe and rreantng of any Lawpr Inftitutlon is b^ft underftoed by the generalnprsftife, which follow* tmmedlatly upon it.And to convince men of their obligation here¬unto,unto, and to engage them to a fuitable praftict/ inall now endeavour with all plainnefs and foreof pcrAvafion I can ; And fo much the more, becaule the neglcft of it among Chrillians is grow:fo general, and a great many perfotvs from a fu iperfinicus awe and reverence of this Sacrameni|jare by degrees fallen into a profane ncgleft anJjcontempt of it./ /hall briefly mention a threefold Obligatioii1} tog upon all Chriftians to frequent Communior!Jn this holy Sacrament, each of them fufficient o|it felf, but all of them together of the greatefforce imaginable, to engage us hereunto.x. We are obliged in point of iodifpenfablc rfuity, and in obedience to a plain precept , anmmoft folemn inflitution of our blefled Saviour])that great Lorveivtr, who is tble to favt and tci,deilroj,ai St. Jtmis calls him : He hath bid uf.DaJ:tHs. And Stint Ptnl who declares nothing imjthis matter, but-whac he tells us he received fromUthe Lord, admonifherh us to do it often. Now for1!any man that profefTeth hfmfelfa Chriftlan.to livenin the open and continued contempt or negleft oh)plain Law and Infiitution of chri(l is utterly in*|jconfident wi.h fuch a profefTion. Tofuch our iLord may fay as he did to the Jem, if hj call'ie |me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I fay. nHow far the ignorance of this inflitution, or rhejmiflakes which men have been led into sbeutr.it, may extenuate this negleft is another confide- }!ration. _ But after we knew cur Lord’s w ill in this iparticular, and have the Law plainly laid before [■:us, there is no cloak for our fin. For nothing can iexcufe the wilfull negleft of a plain Inflitution ifrom a downright contempt of our Saviour's Au- •thority.2. WC Pa. We arelikewlfe obliged hereunto in pointf Intereft. The benefits which we expeft to heerived and allured to us by this Sacrament areII the bldlings of the new Covenant, the for-.ivenefs of our fins., -the grace and afiifiance ofiod’s holy Spirit, to enable us to perform the:onditions ot this Covenant required on our part;nd the comforts of God’s holy Spirit to encourageis in well-doing, and to fupport ns under fune*ingsj and the glorious reward of eternal life. Sohar in neglefting this Sacrament we ncgleft our)wn intereft and haopinefs, we forfake our ownnercies, and Judgc'our felves unworthy of all thedeflings ot the Gofpel; and deprive our felves ofme of the bed means and advantages of confirm-ng and conveying thefe bleflings to us. So that ifve had not a due fenfe of our duty, the confidera-lion of our own inttrtfl fhould oblige us, not to tie-;left fo excellent and fo effeftual a rcieans of pro-noting our own comfort and happintfs. ^3. We are likewife particulary obliged in point)f Gratitude to thecarefullobfervance of th:s In-litution. This was the particular thing our Lord>ave in charge, when he was going to lay downlis life for ui, Do this in rmmbrinct of me Menife religioufly to obferve the charge of a dyingriend,and unlefs it be very difficult and unreafon-ible, to do what he defires •• But this is theiharge of our bed friend ( nay of the greateftrlend and benefaflor of all mankind 3 when hevas preparing himfeif to die in pur dead , and:o offer up himfeif a facrifice for ui *, to undergobe mod grievous pains and fufferings for ourakes , and to yield up himfeif to the word ofemporal Deaths. That he might deliver us fromhe bitter pain* of eternal Death. And can ivedenyr-r~<r:c:(kny Wm any thing he asks of us who was gofrjto do all this for us ? Can we deny him this ? illittle grievous and burthenfome in it felf;infinity beneficial to us l Had fuch a frknuand in fuch circumftances bid us do fome grenthing, would we not have done it ? How inuciimore when he hath only faid, Da this in remiirbranct of mt'*. when he hath only commendeto us one of the mofi natural and dellghtfi.Aftlons , as a fit reprefentation and memorhof his wonderfull Love to us, and of his cruel firferings for our fakes } when he hath only enfjoyned us, in a thankful commemoration of h;goodnefs, to meet at his table, and to rerr.emtiber what he hath done for us y to look ohim whom we have pierced , and to refolve r»grieve and'wound him no more? Can we withouthe moft horrible ingratitude negleft this dyimicharge of our Soveraign and our Saviour , tWgreat friend and lover of fouls ? A command fitreafonable, fo eafie, fo full of blefllngs and bc inefits to the faithfull obfervers of itOne would think it were no difficult matter:to convince men of their duty in this particularsand of the neccfliry ofobferving fo plain an Infilltution of our Lord, that it were no hard thing miperfvvade men to their intereft, & to be willin^tjto partake of thofe great & manifold blefiings.iiwhich all Chrlftians believe to he promifed aneb!made good ro the frequent and worthy Receiv-jers of his Sacrament. Where then lyes the dlfjculty ? What (hould bethecaufeof all this back Iwardnefs, which we fee in men to fo plain, fo ncjceffary, and fo beneficial a duty ? The truth is^men hive been greatly difeouraged from thisSa.'enmenr, by the unwarry preffing and inculcat.iorrf two great truths; the dingir of the wxturtetiving of tb/s holy Sturtmtnt , and tbtnt-t; ef a dut pupirttitn for it. Which bringsto the[. Third Particular I prooofed, which wasndeavour to fatisfie the Oojitiions and Scruples,ch have been raifed in the minds of men, andicularly of many devout and fincereChnfiiins,heir great dkcouragement from the receivinghis Sacrament, at leaft fo frequently as theyht. And thefe Objeftions, i told you, are:fly grounded upon what the Apofile fayei17. sshrefore whomever (hill tit this hrttd,drin^tbis cup of the Lord unworthily, is guiltyhe body and bloud of the Lord. And again v.29.tbit eiteth end drin^tth unworthily, titeth andifythdamnation to b/w/t//.Upon the mlflake &application of thefe Texts have been grounded0 Obje&ionsjof great force to difeourage menn thisSacramenc,which 1 dial endeavour withthe tendernefs and clearnefs I can to remove.?, That the danger of unworthy receiving be-fo very grear, ir feetrs the fafeft way not to:ive at all. Stcondly, That fo much Prepara-1 and worthinefs being required in order to ourthy receiving , the more timorous fort of de»It Chriflianscan never think tbemfelves dulyugh qualified for fo facred an A&ion.h That the danger of unworthy receiving be-ifovery grear, Sc feems the fafeft way wholly(-efrain from this Sacrament, and pot to re-c it at all. But this Objeftion is evidently offorce, if there be (as moft certainly there is}real of a greater danger on the other hind,, inthenegleftoftfiis Duty: And fo thoughdanger cf unworthy receiving be avoided byTIIfnot receiving, yet the danger of neglefling *4jcontemning a plain Inftitution of Chrifi is njlthereby avoided. Surely they in the Furtble thuTefufed to come to the Mtrritge fuft of theK.<»«JSon, and midi light of chat gracious invitati‘iiwere at leaft as faulty as he who came withoutijwedding garment. And we find in the conclufijlof the Parabh,that ai he was feverely punifiied fjhis difrefpeft, fo they were deftroyed for thej]difobtdience. Nay of the two, it is the greatfign of contempt wholly to negleft the Sacramerthan to partake of it without fome due qualific,lion. The greateft indifpofnion that can be ftthis holy Sacrament is ones being a bad man,athe may be as bad,and is more like to continue fwho wilfully neglefts this Sacrament.than he thcomes to it with any degree of reverence and phparatlcn, though much lefs than he ought: Arfurely it is very hard for men to come to foftlemn an ordinance without fome kind of religiotawe upon their fpirits, and without lo,Tie goc:thoughts and relolutions, at lead for the preienIf a man that lives in any known wickednefs *life, do before he receive the Sacrament fee hinifelf ferioufly to be humbled for his fins, and to r*pent of them, and to beg God’s grace and alfifanceagaind them ; and after the receiving of idoes continue for fomc time in thefe good relolitions,though after a while he may poOibly relap:into the fame fins againj this is fome kind of redraint to a wicked life, and thefe good moor^and fits of repentance and reformation aremuc’better than a condant and uninterrupted courfe tfin : Everrthisrighteoufnefs, which Is but as tlmorning cloud and the etrl/ dtw,which (o loon palfeth away, is better than none.Ansiind indeed fcarce any man can think of com-to the Sacrament, but he will by this confide*on be excited to fome good pu‘rpofcs,and putin fome fort of endeavour to amend and re-n his life y and though he be verymuch underbondage and power of evil habits , if he doh any competent degree of fincerlty ( and itils own fault if he do not ) make ufe of thisclient means and infirument, for the mortify,and fubduing of his luffs, and forthcobtain-of God’s grace and afliflance , it may f leafei by the ufe of thefe means,fo to abate the forcepower of his luffs, and to imprint fiich confl¬ations upon his mind, in the receiving of this^ Sacrament, and preparing himfelffor it,thatnay at lafl break off his wicked courfe,and bc-ie a good man.Sat, on the other hand, as to thofe who ne*i this Sacrament, there is hardly any thingto refirain them from the greateff enormitiesife , and to give a check to them in their evilrle ; nothing but the penalty of humane law*,ch men may avold.and yet be wicked enough,etofore men ufed to be reffrained from greatfcandalou* vices by flume and fearofdifgncc,would abffain from many fins, out of regardheir honour and'reputation among men : Buti have hardned their faces in this degenerate',and thofe gentle reffralnts ofmodeffy whicherned and kept men in order heretofore, fig.e nothing now a-days, Blufhing is out of fafhj.and flume is ceafed from among the childrenten.lut the Sacrament did always ufe to lay fome1 ofreflralntupon the vvorft of men j and if■d net wholly reform them , it would atleaffhaveIISifII   jshave fonaegaod effect upon thetn for a tlrne.Jit did not make men good , yet it would mf!them rdolve to be fo,& leave fome good thouand imprefljom upon their minds. 'So that I doubt not but it hath been a th!n$very bad confequence , to dilcourage menmuon from the Sacrament, as the way hath bof late years-, and that many men who weredrr feme kind of check before , fince they hbeen driven away from the Sacrament ,quite let loofe the reign*, .and profiituted tfelvcs to all manner of impiety abd vice. Anmong the many ill effe&s of our part eo!fions, this i* none of the leaft i That in mcongregations of this Kingdom, Chrinians wgenerally difufed and detened from the Samem, upon a pretence that they were unfitity and being fo, they muff neceffanly incurdanger of unworthy receiving y and thereithey bad better wholly to. abftain irom it.which it came to pats , that in very many pithis great and Solemn Inihtution of the Cffian Religion was ahr oft quite forgotten, ashad been no part of it, and the remembr,'of Chrift's death even loft among ChnftiaSo that manyCongregaiions JnEngland might.lv have taken up the complaint of the u ofat our Saviour’s fepulchre, Thtj htvl<j*r Lord,tnd vet know rut whin tbtibtve UidBut furdy men did not well confider whatdid nor what the confequence ofit would be.ythey did fo earneftly diftwade men from thecrament.’Tis true indeed the danger of unwcreceiving is great-, but the proper inference^conclafion irom hence is not, that men fhouUcn this confidcration be deterred from the S;nr,but that they fhould be affrighted fromrlieiris,and from rhat wicked courfe of life, wliich ishabitual indifpofirion & unworthmefs. St. PaulIced (as FoMerved before) truly reprdents,3ndy muchagg avats the danger of the unworthyeivingof this Sacrametitj but he did not deterCflr;«tl)<<?irf'romir,becaufe they hadfometimesne toit withoutduc reTerence,but exhortsthemimend whu had been amifs, & to come betterpared and difpofed for the. future. And there*: after that terrible declaration imhcText,/^#-'tr jhtl i/u this brudy tnd drin^ this cup o) thed unmrtbilji, is cuiltj of the body end bloud ofLord,he does not add, therefore let Chrifllansiz heed of coming to theSacramenr,but let them}ie prepared and with due reverencc,not as tocommon meal, but to a folemn participation ofjbodv& Joud ofChrift;B<r let * miritxminehim’ieir fo let him ttt of thit breed &drinl^ ofihxtcup.,or, if this be a good reafon to abftsin trom theirament,for fear of perfo mingfo facred anadti-n an undue manner,it were beft for a bad m in|ay afidc all Religion, and to give over the ex*::fe of all the duties of piety, of prayer,of read.i«nd hearing the Word God;becaufe there is aiportionable danger in the unworthy and un*tfitable ufe of any ol thefe.Tfcr pnjer o'fihe rvic^-rhat is,of one that relolves to continue fo); j anmimtion to the Lord. And our Saviour glws usi lame caution concerning hearing the Word of}-,te^e heed how ye heir. And St. Ptul tells u<,4 thofe who are not teformed by the doftrineiheGifgr/.it is the favour of death,xhtt is.deadlyI damnable to fuch perfonsfur now will any man from hence argue.that it,|:llfora wicked mm not to pray,not to hearB 'oror read the Word of God, left by fo doingfhould endanger &aggravat hiscondetunadcn?Ayet there Is as much reafonfrom ihUconfideraon to perlwade men to give over praying,& attding to God’s Word, as to lay afide the ufe ofSacrament. Aftditis every whit as true,that He tfprays unworthily,& hears the word ofGed unwthily,that i»,without fruit Sc benefit, is guilty cgreat contempt of God,8c ofour blefted Saylouilby h;s undevout prayers, 8c unfruitful hearing:God’s Wort),does further 8c aggravat his ow n danation:! fay,this is every whit as true, as he tieats and drinks the Sacrament unworthily is guiof a high contempt of Chrift,8c uts tnd drin\i iow judgmtntjo that the danger of the unwortperforming this fo facred an aft ion is no otherwia rcafon to any man,to abftain from theSacramrthan it ban Argument to him to caft off jillReli,on.He that unworthily ufeth or performs any pof Religion is in an evil and dangerous conditic ibut he that caftsoff all Religion plungeth himf iinto a moft defperat ftate, 8c does certainly dan Ihimfclf to avoid the danger of damnation:Becaihe that cifts off all Religion, throws off all tfmeans whereby he fhould be reclaimed 8c brotg iinto a better ftate. i cannot more fitly illuftrat tlrriatter than by this plain Similitude. He that eat*and drinksiotemperatly endangers his health arifpslife, but he that to avoid this danger will mleat at all, I need not tell you what will certaicr!become of him in a very fhort fpace.There are fame confcientious perfoni who atftain from the Sacrament, upon an apprehenfit-that the fins which they (hall commit afterwarcare unpardonable. But this Is a great miftakf,orSavior having fo plainly declared,that all manne8(in dial be forgiven men, except the blefphemyinft the holy Ghbftifuch afwai that of thcPfca-ts, who at our Saviour tells us blafphemed theiy Ghofi.in afcribing thofc great miracles whichy faw him worked which he really wroughtthe Spirit of God, to the power of the Devil*iced to fin deliberately after fofoiemn an en-jement to the contrary is a great aggravationfin,but not fuch as to nuke it unpardonable,t the neglect of the Sacrament is not the wayprevent thefe fins •, but, on the contrary, theafiant receiving of it,with the bed preparationj can,is one of the mod effcftual means ro pre-it fin for the future,and to obtain the abidance(God’s grace to that end. And if we fill into finpwards we may be renewed by fcpentance *1 wr have tn tdvocate with tht Fathtr , Jr/ixj'ifi thi righttour, who is the propitiation fir onr;r j 'and as fuch, is in a very Jively and affeflinginner exhibited to us,in this blefTed SacramentIhls body broken,and his blond died for the re-fflion of our fins. Can we think that the pritni-ije Chridians, who fo frequently received this|y Sacrament, did never after the receiving ofdill into any deliberate fin ? undoubtedly manyii hem did ■, but far be it from us to think, that|h f;ns were unpardonable, and that (o many|bd men ftiould becaufc of their careful and con-Icntious obfervancc of our Lord’s InditutlonInvoldably fall into condemnation.;>To draw to a conclufon of this matter ; fuchiundlefs fears and jealoufics as thefc may be ai of a good meaning, but they are certainly ai of an injudicious mind.For if we fbmd upon •fe Scruples, no man perhaps was ever fo ftor-ly prepared to draw near to God in any dutyofOf Religion, but there waiftill fomedefea or|ther in iht difpofirion of hifmind, ai d the tgree ol his pitpararion. But it we prepare |;felves as vve can, this is all that God txpefts.^for cur fears of falling Into fin afterwards,therthis plain aiifwer to bt given to it ^ that the dgerof tailing into finis not prevented by negfling the Sacrament, but encrealed j becauipowerful! and probable meant of preferving nfrom fin is neglected. And why fhonld not evtfincerc Chriftian, by the receiving of this Sacment, and renewing hit Covenant with God,ther hope to be confirmed in gcodncfs,and to eceive further afTiftances of God’s grace and heSpirit,to firengthen him againft fin,and to enathim to fubduc it; than trouble himfelf with feawhich are cither without ground, or if they anor, are no fufficient reafon to keep any man frethe Sacrament? We cannot furely entertain*fo'uworthy a thought of God,and our blefledSavfonas to imagine that he did infiititte the Sacramerrot for the furtherance of our Salvation,but asfnare, and an occafion of ourrufne and dantion. This were to pervert the gracious defign dGod, and to turn the cup of Salvation into a cu11of deadly poifon to the fouls of men.All then that can reafonahly.be inferred frailthe danger of unworthy receiving is,that upon thillconfirieratioD men fhould be quickned to come til*i:e Sacrament with a due preparation of mind'1and -fo much the more to fortifie their refolutiiors of living futably to thap holy Covenant, whirijthey folemnly renew every time they receive thaholy Sicrament.This confideratlon ought to conivince us of the abfolute neceflity cf a good lifeibut Dot to deter us from the ufeof any mean:iwhiflnIMPlich may contribute to make u$ jecod. There,e ( a» a learned Divim fays very vvell)this Si-ament can be negitfted by none butthofethac' not uodcri.and it, but thofe vvhoarcunwillinBbe tyed to their duty, and ate afraid of bringgaged to ufe their befi diligence to keep theunmandrrents of chrifl: And fuch perfons have> realon to fear being in a worfe condition,finceey are already in fobad a flare.And thus muchay fuftice foranlwer to the firfl Objt ft ion con-rmng the great danger of unworthy receiving» holy Sacrament. I ftal proceed to the2.Stcond Objeftion. which was this; That'/•2- fo much preparation and worthinefs beingrequired to our worthy receiving,the moreInorous fort of Chriftianscan never think them,ives duly enough qualified for fo facred an A-Icn.t or a full anfwer to this Objeflion, I fhall en-tavour briefly to clear theie Ihret things. Firff,nat every degree of Inriperfeftion in our prepa*I ion for this Sacrament is nor a fufficient reafonmen to refrain from it. Secondly, That a totalHint of a due prepafarjon, not only in the degreeIt in the main and lubfiance of it,though it ren-tr us unfit at prefent to receive this Sacramerr,It it does by no means txcufe our ncgleft of ir.That the proper inference and ronclufi-t from the total want of a due preparation,!* notftoafi eff all thoughts of receiving theSacramenr,II iramediatly to fet upon the work of prepa-cion, that fo we may be fit to receive jr. And:I cm clearly make out thefe thru things,! hopes Objeftion is fully anfwered.n That every degree oi iT.perftftion in our pre-yation for this Sacrament is not a fufficient rei-fonfon for men toabftain from it ; for then no maskfhould ever receive it:For who is every way wonthy, & in all degrees and refpefts dniy qualifierto approach the prefence ot Gad in any of thiduties of his Worfinp and Service? Who can tvaf.his kinds in innocwcj, that fo he be perfectly fito approach God’s Altar? There is not a man o:earth that livei and fins not. The Graces of thheft men are imperfect, and every imperfeftlotin grace & goodnefs is an Imperfection in thedilpofition & preparation of our minds for this hoi;SacramenttButif we do heartily repent of our finsa’Pld tlncerely refolve to pbty and perform thtterms of the Gofpel,and of tliat'Covenant whictwe entered into by Baptifm, & are going folemnly to renew and confirm by our receiving of thiiSacrament, we are at laaft in fome degree, and id.the main qualified to partake of this holy Sacra»r.ment; And the way for us to be more fit is tQj.(receive this Sacrament frequently, that by dmfpiritual food of God’s appointing,by this livingbrad rvhich contts down from htivin our fouls n»ay<;be nourifhed in goodnefs,&nevv firength^nd ver*.tue may be continually derived to us, for the pu*rifylng of our hearts, and enabling us to run the:iways ofGods commandments with more conflancyi;and delighr.For. the way to grow ingrtet, and tonbe (Irtngtbnid with til might in tht inntr mtn, analto abound in til tbi fruits of righttmfnifs,which bf 'jChrijl Jtfus tre to tht prtift and glory of God, isijwith care and confclence to ufe thole means ;which God hath appointed for this end : And ifwe will negleft the ufe of thefe means,it is to nopurpofc for us to pray to God for his grace andalTifiance.We may tire our felvcs with our devoti¬ons, and fill hejvcn with vain complalnts,and yetbyill thii impoftunity obtain nothing at God’sid: Like lazy begiers that are always complain-and always asking, but will not work,will dohingto help themfclves, and better their con-fion, and therefore are never like ro trove they and companion of othersjf vvc txpeft God’sdee and alfiftance, we mufl work out our ownation in the careful ufe of allthefc means whichd hath appointed to that end. That excel-|t deg-eeof goodnefs, which men would have“t them for the Sacrament, is not to be had butthe ufe of it. And therefore it is a prepoflerousmen to Infifl upon having the en^ befof|:y'will ufe the maansthat may funher them in'i i obtaining of it..2. The total want of a due preparation, not1 ly in the degree, but in the main and fubfianceS it, though it render us unfit at prefent to re-:ive this Sacrament,yet docs it by no meani cx-fe our neglcft of it. One fault may draw onpother, but can never cxcufe it. It is our greatult that we are wholly unprepared, and noim can claim any benefit by his fault, or pleadtj in excufe or extenuation ofthis negleft. A to¬il want of preparation and an abfolute unwor-siinefsis impcnitency in an evil courfe, a tefolu*n to continue a bad mao, not to quit his lufis,i d to break off that wicked courfe he hath lived: : Butisthisanyexcufc for the negleft of our'jty,that we will not fit our felves for the doinglit with benefit and advantage to our felves ? Au her commands his fon to ask him bleflfng everyfy, and is ready to give It him ; but fo long as* is ur.dutiful to him in his Other aftions, and«es in open difobedience, forbids him to comeli his fight. He excufeth himfeif from afking his' ■ fs-1■Ii■fathers MefiTng, btcju'e he is undurifu! in onthings, and refolves to continue fo. Thisis)';tlte cjufc ot negiefting the duty God requiresthe bitfling* hi ofers to us in the Stcrament, icaufe vvc have made our felvesincapable of fo p; iforming the one as to receive the other, and a rrefolded to continue fo. We will not do our du Iin other things., and then plead that we are uni jand unwoithy to do it in this particular of thSacrament.3. The proper inference and concluhon fro*]a total want of due preparation for the Sacr 1t»;enr, is not to caff off all thoughts of receivingit, butlmmediacely to let about the work of pr iparation, that (o we may be fit to receive it Ftif this be true, that they who are abfolutely uiptepared ought not to receive the Sacrament,ncrcan do it with any benefit; nay by doing it idfuch a mannerrender their condition much worf» 1this is a mod forcible argument to reptntam 1and amendment of life. There is nothing rcalofable In this cafe, but Immediately to relblve upoi ja better courfe,that fo we may be meet partaker Iof thofe holy Myflc ies, and may no longer prod.vokt God’s wrath againfi us by the wilfull negiefttof fo great & necelTary a duty of the Chriftian Re iligion. And we do willfully negieft ir, fo long a ,we do willfully refufe to fit and qualifie our fclvei >for the due and worthy performance of it. Lei,us view the thing in a like cafe; A pardon is graclcn fly offered to a rebcl.he declines to accept it,and modeftly excufeth himfelf, becaufe he is no;worthy of ir. And why is he not worthy ? B.’cauff >he.refolvcs to be a rebel , and then his pardonwill do him no good, but be an aggravation 0!his Crime. Very true; and it will be no kfs at;ag«ravailon that he refufeth it for fuch a reafcm .under a pretence oftr.ndefly does the rr.oftirudent thing in the wprld. This is jufi th*iand in this cafe there is but cnc thing rea. -ible to be done,fe that is,for a man to makefclf capable of the benefit as foon as he can,thankfully to accept of it: Cut to exculehim-from accepting of the benefit offered , be-fe he is not worthy of i'r, nor fit for it. nor• intends to be fo, is as if a nraarfhould dtfirebeexcufed from being happy, becaufe h: isi’vcd to play the fool and to he mllerable-hat whether aur want of preparation be total,inly to fome degree, it i every way unreafon-- _■ If it be in the degree only, it ought notbinder us from receiving the Sacrament; Ifc nta\ it ought to put us imn edintly upoaloving the impediment, by making fuch p e-ation as is neceflary to the due and worthy re-ring of it And this brings me to ther.Fourth and laft thing l proposed, wt^Whatparatlon ofour felvesis needfary ip order toworthy receiving of this Sact amc nt. Which Ilyou would give me occafion to explain 'heiff /e’atnea«ing in the laft part of the Jext, Blitt mm txmini himftlf,*nd jo It: him ttt of tbitid and drinj^of that cup. I think it very clearp the occafion &circumftances of the Apojllt'spourfe concernirg the Sacrament, that he doesintend the examination of our ffate, whetherbe Cbriftians or nor, andfmcerely refolved toitinue fo ; and confequently that he does note fpeak of our habitual preparation by the re-ation of a good life. This he takes for granted,t they were Chriftians and refolvcd to contkvteI perferere in their Chriftian profeifion: But|. C helie fpcaks of their aftualfirnefs and worthinesjthat time when they came to receive the LiSupper. And for the cleating of this matter,muft confidcr what it was that ga^c occafio!this diicourfe. At the ioth virfe of this chtpttfturply reproves their irreverent and unfuitcarriage at the Lord’s Supper. They came t(very diforderly, on: bijort Another. It was theftom of ChrlfHans to meet at their Feafl of Chefj,in which they did communicate with greatbriety and temperance jand when that was ead.they celebrated the Sacrament of the Lord’* S*per. Now among the Cor/atfc/a« this order \broken; the richmet and excluded the poor fr«this comttion feaft : And after an irregular fe( one before another earing his own fupper ascame) they went to the Sacrament in great derder ; One vpts bungrj, having eaten nothingall; Vthersweredrun^ having eaten intempera]y;ind the poor vveredefpifed and neglected.Tthe Apoftie condemns as a great profanationthat folemn inliirution of the Sacrament, attiparticipation whereof they behaved themfebwith as little reverence,as if they had been meta common Supper or Feaft. And this he calls,sdifeerning the Lord's body, miking no differerin their behaviour between the Sacrament andeonamon meal; which ir everent and contemfruous carriage of theirs heca!ls,f/tt;'n; tnd driting unworthily; for which he pronounceth th<jjguilty of the body and blood of the Lord , whlwere reprefenred &: commemorated in their eting of that bread tnd dunging of that cup. 1wWch irreverent and contemptuous ulage of tfbtyiy 'and bloud of our Lord , he tells them ththey did incur the judgment of God ; which 1cai i?, eating tnd drin^ir.g tbtir own )udg>ntni For •: chti.wor^zp!?/? which one T an?mows render\nation, do;s nor liere fignifie e'crn;:l condcm-ion. bnr » tenporS! Jndgment *nd chaftiic-itintrdcr to the prtv mien of e ernal con-iin»«on,is evident fro:r. what follow* *,Ffr ibat'.thani d?inbetb unworthily, ta'.itb and drin^itbigmtrit to bimlilj: And then he fayj. For this\t mmy art rvia^ and fic^ly among you,and miniP: Thtt Is, for this irreterence cf theirs, Godi fent among them feveral difeafes, of whith..ny had died. And then he adds,For ij we wouldige ourfclves,wi fhould not be judged. For if we’tld Judge our felver, whether this be meant ofpiblick Cenfares of the Church, or our pri-cenfuring of our felves, in order to our futureendment and reformation is not certain. Ifhe latter, which I think n oft probable, thenIgirghere is much the fame with examining our'is vir.2% And then the Apoftle’s meaning is,t if we would cenfure and examine our fclves,3S to be more careful for the future, we fhouldape the Judgment of God in thefe temporallifhnenn: Bat when we art judged , we are'.fined of the Lord, that we fhould not be condtm-l with the world,But when we we Judged-, thatwhen by negkfting thus to judge our felvei,: provoke God to judge us we are cbaRned ofLord, that we (hould not be condemned with therld‘, that is, he it flifts thefe temporal judg-’nts upon us to prevent our eternal rondemna-.n.Which plainly (hews that the judgment herenken of is not etcrnfl condemnation. And then: concludes, wherefore,my Brethren, when ye>comenether to eat,tarry for one another-And if any man',iger,let him eat at home, that ye come not together, C 2- UK-• mojudgmnt : Where the Apojllc plainly fh*both what was the crime cf unworthy receiviandthe puniftimentofk Their crime was, tiIrreverent and diforderly participation ofthe:crament and their panifhment was, tr|jfe re' poral judgetnents which God ioflifted upon tlifor this their contempt of the Sarragient.Now th^ being, I think, very plain; wepropordvffiably to underftand the precept of»amination of our telvc$,btfort mt ut of tbit br(,drin^of that cup. But lit a man txamint h.felj; thtt is, confidcr well with himfelt' what acred Aftion he Is going about, and what behajaour becomes him, when he is celebrating this Jcrament inftituted by our Lordin memorial of j|body and bloud, that is.of his death and pafficnAnd if heretofore.he hath been guilty of any cijorder and irreverence ( fueh as the ApoftU hitaxeth them withall ) let him cenfure and Jumhimftlj for it, be fenfible of and forty for Hjfault, and be careful] to avoid it for the futaaland having thus Examined himfclf, let him eatsthat bread, and drink of that cup. This, I thinis the plain fenfe of the ApolU's difdourf; ; ajthat if we attend to the (cope and circumfiamjjof it, it cannot well have any other meaning, iBut fome will fay,h this all the preparation ti. Is required to our worthy receiving of the Sac:ment, that wt take care not to come drunk to• nor to be guilty of any irreverence and difortin the celebration ofit?Ianfwcr in fhort.this tthepameuiarunworthfnefs with which tkcApptaxeth the Corinthians,toi which he warns th<*o amend, as they defire to efcape thejudgmei. of God.fuch as they had already felt for this 1«verent carriage of theirs, fo unfuitabie to the hicrament: He finJs no other fault with them _irefent In this matter, though any other fortrrcvcrcnce will1 proportionably eSpole menhe like pnoilhment. He (ays nothiBg here ofir habitual preparation, by the fincere pur-e and reiolutlon of a good life; snfwerable to: rules of the Chriftian Religion ; this .we maySpofe he took for granted. However, It con.ns the Sacrament r o more than It does Prayerany other religiousDuty.Not but that it is verye,that none; but thofe who do heartily embracef chrlftian Feligion, and are fincercly refolvedframe their lives according to the holy ruiesd precepts of it, are fit to communlcat in thislemn acknowledgment and profeflion of at. Soit it is a praftice very much to be countenancedd encouraged, becaufe it is ofgreatufc , foririfiians by way of preparation foetheSicra-ent to examine themfelves In a larger fenfe thanall probability the Jptlili here intended ; Ican, to examine our pad; lives and the aftionsthem', in order to a fincete repentance of alltr errours and mlfcarrlages, and to fix us in theeady purpofe and refolutinn of a better He ,irtkularly, when wc expeftrohave the forgive-efsof our fins fealed to us,we fhould lay afide ailnmity and thoughts of revenge,and heartily foivIve thofe that have offended us, and put In pra¬tio* that univerfal love and charity which isre-Tefented to us by this holy Communion. And tohis purpofe we are earnefUy exhorted in themblick office oT the conHiMnion by way of duereparation and difpofi ion for It.to npint us tru-y of our (ins pud, to imind out livist to bt in'trfttt charity -with all mtn,that (o vet may bt mtttunt^trs oj thojt hoi] myfttrits.And beaufc this work of examining our feNconcerning our flare and condition, and of ex tcifing repentance toward! God, and charily tward* men is incumbent upon uS as. we areChflian* , and can never be put in pra&icc mefeafonab!y,and with greater advantage,than wh .we are meditating of this Sacrament, therefobefides our habitual preparation by repentant: (and the conflant endeavours of a holy life, it i» jvery pious and commendable cuflona in Chriftjans before their coming to the Sacrament* to fa part fome particular time for this work of exmination.Buthow much time every perfon fhoulallot to this purpofe, ft matter of prudence ; anas it need not,fo neither indeed can it be precif*ly determined.Some have greater realon to fpcm:more tine upon this work than others, I meathefe, whofe accounts are heavier, beciufe thehave long run upon the fcore, and negkftethemfelves; and fome alfo have more leifure anfreedom for it, by reafon of their eafie conditioand circumflances in the world; and thereforarc obliged to allow a greater portion of time fothe exercifes of piety and devotion. In general.no man ought to do a work of (o great momen& concernment flighty and perfunftorily. And iithis, as in all othef a ft Ions, the end is principally to be regarded.Now the end of examining oufelves is to underfland our flare and condition& to reform whatever we find amifc in our (elvesAnd provided this end be obtained, the circurafiances of the meansare lefs confiderable ; whe*ther more or left t^me be allowed to this work, Imatters not fo much, as to make fare that thework be throughly done.Antnd 1 do on purpofe fpeak thui ciurloufly fntnaticr, bccaufc fome pious pcrfons do prr-..s err on the ftrlficr hand, & are a little fu-Ifthious on that fide in lo rruch that unlefs! gain (o •tr.uch time' to fet a part for a foleranparation , they will refrain from the Sacra-itat that time.tkough otherwife they be habi-ly prepared; This! doubt nor proceeds fromous mind ; but as the 4po[llt fays in anothert about the Sacrament, Skill I praiCe them in-|| ? I prtift tktm not. For provided there,tfno wllfullncgleft of due preparation ^ It isjjch better to come fo prepared as we can, naydnk it is our duty lo to do, rather than to ab-n upon this punffilio. For when ail is done,beft preparation for the Sacrament, is the ge-ai cite and endeavour of a pood life; andhat ii thus prepared may receive at any timeHen opportunity is offered, though he hid noRticular forefight of that*opportunity. And II k is thst cife fuch a one (hall do muchJpcr to receive than to refrain, bec’aufe he is||rtua!Iy prepared for the Sjcrament,though he| no time to make fuch aftual preparati-as hedeflred : And if this were not allow-|r, how could M nificrs communicat with fickfons at ail times , or perfwade o-hers todoany times ppon very fhort and fudden war*|S? " . .nd indeed^we cannot imagine that the primi*Chrifiians, who received the Sacramentfo:ucDt!y, that for ought appears to the con-y they Judged it aseffential and ncceflaryart of their publ’ck worfhlp as any othert of it whatfoever, even as their Hymns andysrs ,' and reading asd interpreting of the-WordWort! of God : I fay we cannot well conehow they who celebrated it fo conf!antIy, ccallot any more rime for a folemn preparationit, than they did for ajiy other part of divworftilp : And confcquently that the Apo(lU,\\V}he b\Ai tht corinlhians •examine- themfelvcould meanito more than that confiderlngC|ture & ends of this inflitutiom they Ihocome to' it with great reverence ; «nd rcfling upbn their former mifearriagts in tmatter, fhould be carcfull upon this admonon to avoid them (hr the future,and to amewhat had becnamifsj which to do requiresthcr refolution and care than any long timejapreparation. ti Cpeak this, that devout perfons may not ]intarrgled im an apprehenfion of a greater tj:cefhty than really there Is of a long & foletljpreparation every time they receive the Sac|mem. The great necefhtv that lyes upon memto live as becomes Chrlfiians, and then th-y cjnever be’abfolLtely unprepared. Nty I thfflthis to be a very good preparation; and I lee rjwhy men fhouid not be very well fatlsfied wJit, unlcfs they intend to make the fame ulellthe Sacrament that many of the Papifis dp|jCooftflioo and Abfolution^hlch is*to quit wiGod once or twice a year,that fo they may beaito fin again upon a nesv fcore.But beciufe the Examination of our ielvesa thing fo very ufefull, and the time which mare wont to fet apart for their preparation ithe Sacrament is fa advantageous an opporrunfor the praflicc of it; therefow 1 cannot fvery much commend thofe who take this occon, to fearch and try their ways, and tojmleWes to t more (olemn account"of tliefr t?);ns. Becaufe this ought to be done fometlmc,I know no fitter dine for it than this. And■hips (otne would nev^rfind time to rccolieftQmfclves , and to take the condition of theirOsTnto ferloos confideration , were it notijn this folemn occafion.HThe fum of what I have fald is this,that fup-|n| a perfon to be habitually prepared by agious difpofition of mind, and the generalrfe of a good life, this more folemn aftualparatbn is not always neceflary; And it ister when there is an opportunity to receivehour it, than no to receive at all: But theiter our aftual preparation is,the bctter.Forman can examine himfelf too .often,and un»fiand the (late of his foul too well, and ex-fc repentance, and renew the rcfclutlons ofjod life too frequently. And there is per*t no fitter opportunity for the doing of til, then when we approach the Lord’s table,-e to commemorate his death , and to renewI Covenant with him to live as becomes thepel.til the Reflefiion I fhal now make upon thla:ourle , (hall be from the confideration ofit hath been laid, earnefily jo excitc all thatfefs and call themfelves Chrlftlins to a dueparatlon of themlelves for this holy Sacra-it, and a frequent participation of ft, accor-!! to the intention of our Lord and Saviourhe infthutionof it, and the undoubted pra-e of Chriflians hi the primitive and beftcs, when men had more devotion^nd fewerpics ibout their diyy. .If we dt) good eirncft believe , thtt ^Sicrjraeac was Inftliufed.by oor Lord \n vemerbrance of his dying love, we cannot but nay*very high value and elleem for It upon tnacount. Me thinks fo often as we read the luttntion of it, thefe words of our dear \this inrmtnbuntt of mi, and confider whatwhofaid them didtorus, this dying chargeour beft friend Hiould flick with us, and tna<aflrong intprertionupon our minds: B’’P«c!ai ^!f we add to thefe, thofe other words of hls.clong before his death.Grrarrr lovt thin this fo*7i) mtn,tbat-* »m lay dawn his Lift for bis jrtm ^yi^rt my finds, ijjt do whatfnvtr I comma 1you- It is a wonderful love which he hath expr*ed to ns, and worthy to be had in perpetual nrcetr.braoce. And all that he expefts from *;by way of thankful acknowledgment, is to ce :bratc the remetubrance of it by the frequent p. Iticiwtion of this blcffed Sacrament. And ILthis ciiarge, laid upon us by him,who laid do.,his life for us. lay no obligation upon us to tfokmn remembrance of that unparallei d 'nefs, which is the fountain of fo many bleflUand benefits to ys ? It is a great fign we na ,no great fenfe of the benefit, when wc are Iolniindfull of our Benefaftbtir , as to forgetdays without number. i r ,The obligation he hath laid uponfily great, notonly beyond all requital, u-yond all exprcfTiot^ that if he had commandus feme very grievous thing, we ought withthe readlnefs and cheerfulnefs !ti the worldhave done it; how much more when hcb.impofed upon us fo cafie a commandmeDt*hJog of no burthen , but of Immcnfe benefnfie hath only f*ld toui*, Ear, O friend* •,Drink, 0 beloved ? When he only invite*) hi* tabic , to the beft and molt delldout: that we can partake of on this fide hea-we ferloufly believe the great blelTings whichthere exhibited to uj, & ready to be confer-upon us,we fhouid befo fir fro-n negleftingn, that we fhauld heartily thank God forry opportunity he offer* to ui ofl.eing madetaken of fuch benefit*. When fuch a pricemt into our hand* fhal we want heart* tote ulc of it ? Me thinks we fhould long with•iid ( who faw but the fhadow of thefe blef-) to be fathfied-wlth the good things ofi’*houfe, and to draw near hi* altar; andaid cry out with him , 0 whin [htl I cometppetr before thte4. mjfoul lorigetb, yen evenuttbfor the courts of the. Lord. , and my fli[hth out for the living God. bad if we had a juftem of things, we fhOulJ account it the great-infelicity and judgment in the world fo be de*red ofthh prlviledge, which yet we do de-rarely and frequently deprive our felvetof.Ve exclaim againfl the Church of Rome withat impatience, and with a very juft indlgnati-, for robbing the People of half of this[Ted Sacrament , and taking from them theof bleffingjht cup offtlvttion', and yet we canlently endure for fome raoneth*, nay year*,exclude our felve* wholly from it. if no fuchat benefits and blcffings belong to It, why docomplain of them for hindring u* of any partt? But if there do , why do weby.'urownlicit deprive our (circs of the whole ?laIn ?a!n do we bcmotci the decay of bur gracand our (low progrels and Improvement in ChflUnity , whilfi we wilfully deTpife the bimeins of our growth in goodncfsi Well do tdefcrre that God fhould fend leannefs into ofouls, and make them to confume and pineway In perpetual doubting and trouble, if,vmGod himfclf doth fpread a Tabic for its, and (before us the bread of life , we will not cooand feed upon It with joy and thankfiilnefls.