WANTON TOM;an, xnn ,Jf0^Merry TricksorTOM STITCHTHE TAILOR.■* <Deck’J with such pastime and delight,That it would invite a lady, lord, or knightTo read—it is a gem, a mint of treasui.,’Tis sport and mirth beyond all measure.STIRLING:PRINTED BY W. MACNIZ,Where is always kept on Sale, a choice and*eat endive Assort¬ment of Histories, Songs, Children’s Story Bscks,School Books, &c., &c.THEMEKEY HISTORYOFTOM STITCH THE TAILOR.CHAP. I.Of Tom Stitch’s Birth, and Parentage.In Thread-needle-street, at the upperend of Thimble Alley, lived one Wil¬liam Stitch, by profession a taylor, whowas married to Nan Needle :Whom many men did often thread,"When thej could gain her to their bed.She keeping company with many men,to gain custom, at length she gained theTrench disease; which increasing, she burnther husband's thread. This being knownamong her customers, they used to jeerher, and say, she was a hot Needle indeedto burn her husband's thread. And whenher husband asked them for work, theyanswered. No, no, Do you think we willlet you-be our taylor, who sews with ahot needle and burning thread ?In a short time after they were married,there arose a great contention between himand his wife concerning their names; she3would not have her’s burned in forgetfulness, and such a one as his flourish. Herhusband, to save contention, yielding tolet her name be joined to his, and so calledStitch Needle.Soon after this she lived a more chastelife than heretofore, so that she provedwith child ; but her husband in half ayear after died. He being dead, and shevery poor, could not tell where to go forrelief, having scarcely any friend livingthat would regard her.The time soon slipped away, and the dayof her delivery drew nigh ; but she notthinking it so near as it was, neglected thegetting such necessaries as one in her con¬dition required j so one day unexpectedly,she fell into trayil, no body being withher but only a maid, who first ran to callthe neighbours, and then the midwife j butbeing delivered before she came, a poorneighbour had dressed the babe, which wasa boy. Then a minister was sent for tobaptize him, who having orders, namedihim Thomas Stitch ; and a while after thewoman asked the mother what she had gotto give the child ? She answered, with asigh, that she had nothing in the house buta porringer of butter'd cabbage, which she] ' had eat part of that day for her dinner.4The child crying very much, the womantook the cabbage and warmed it, and thenfed the babe with it, who ever since hathloved cabbage beyond measure.CHAP. II.Shewing in what manner 'fiom was brought up. OJ hisbeing bound an Apprentice. How by a mad prankhe lay with his Mistress ; how his Master catchedhim in bed with her : Likewise how he had him be¬fore the Chamberlain for it} and how by a jest he Teasfoeed.IN a few years Tom’s mother marriedagain, and lived very happy, put himto school, and there maintained him untilhe was big enough to be an apprentice;then his mother bade him make choice ofwhat handicraft he would, to which heanswered, That of all trades he loved thatof a tailor best. His mother, with all careimaginable, provided him a master, whosename was Mr Deceitful, who had a severewife to servants, and Tom, being more 1addicted to waggery than ordinary, she wasthe more severe on him ; for every morn¬ing if he lay in bed after five of the clock,she would go up with a cudgel in herhand, and pull Tom out of bed, and beathim like a stock fish. She using him soonce or twice a w eek, made him study howto prevent it; so one morning she coming5up to his bed-siJe in a great /age, feilupon him ; but he leaped out of bedcrying, insomuch that the tears ran downhis cheeks. Then she returning veryeagerly to strike him again, he took upthe forelappet of his shirt, and wiped hiseyes, which, when she beheld, she forboreto strike him, turning her back upon him,and so departed out of the room blushing,and never after that would she call Tom up.But he not being contented with whathe had already done, soon contrived a wayto be revenged on her ? for he imaginedshe kept company with young gallants, un-known to her husband, and therefore re¬solved to find her out if possible. Tomwatching an opportunity, one day, in themiddle of the week, saw her warming aclean smock, which wTas not usual, he thenbegan to apprehend she was to meet a gal¬lant abroad : so after she had dressed her¬self, and gene out, Tom following her,till at length she entered into a notedschool of Venus, where none but the sonsof Venus were practitioners, who had eacha rich wrought bed for a study, and adaughter of Venus for a book; which isaccording to the poet, who saith,A vroman is a book, and often found,To prove far better in the iheets than bound ;6iNo vronder then, why men take such delight,Above all things to study in the night.Tom seeing where she went in,* returnedback to a broker's shop, and hired a veryrich suit, coat, sword, and a peruke : Inthis attire he walked much like a gentle¬man to that door where his mistress wentin, and inquire !, Whether that was nota school of Venus, where a gentlemanmight have entertainment ? To whom theservant replied, he might. Tom hearingthis, entered in ; and the first he met with7'was his then kind, tho‘ before cruel n.tress, decked with all the tempting dresse*art could produce : Her face looked like! alabaster -t a tower upon her head to con¬quer her lovers ; nay, her smiles seemedas if they would have overcome hdr great¬est enemies.In this dress she beholding his beautifullooks, which were scarcely to be equalledby any, thought him to be some highborn person, and herself very happy,though only to admire him. At lengthshe broke silence, and gave him this cour¬teous salutation : Much honoured sir, yourlooks do presage, you are of some nobleextraction ; your majestic presence forcethmy tongue to express what my heartthinks: Yet I hope, noble sir, I shall notpresume in so hign a nature, but that youshall forgive. I shall think myself happyto be recorded among the number of yourservants.He hearing her salute him at his en-trance’ with such inviting expressions, im¬agined what she would be at; so takingher by the hand, desired her to be his pilotinto some haven of felicity. She readilyyielded to his request, and conducted himup stairs into a chamber. After he hadentered the chamber, he complimented^ 8i* in this sort \ Bright madam, yourMatchless beauty bath captivated mysenses } and if you wifi but vouchsafe toj, honour me with thy sweet and delightfulj. company, f shall think myself more happythan Paris, who enjoyed the Grecian queen.To which she replied, Dear sir, commandme as your own while you remain here :nay, your sweet looks have so charmedme, that I could die in your arms. Sheyielding herself so wholly to him, he en¬tertained her with all the choice daintiesthe house could afford : But as he wastaking his repose with her he slipped a pairof scissars out of his pocket, and cut off apiece of her best petticoat; and after hehad enjoyed her, he made what haste hecould and discharged the reckoning, anddeparted. At his departure, she hoped tohave his company there again such a dayof the following week ; to which he con¬sented, promising not to fail.Tom made has 2 and shifted his clothes,and went home laughing, to think howhe had served his mistress,, and how hewould have her at his back.Tom's mistress, after she had missed thepiece of her ipetticoat, thought he hadbeen some gentleman her husband had sent(fearing he had heard where she was) on9purpose to betray her, never thinking itwas her man Tom. She was greatly vex¬ed for a long time, ana could not tell whatshe had best do, sometimes thinking onething and sometimes another. In thisperplexity at last she pinn’d up her petti¬coat, and resolved to venture home, letwhat should he the event.. So home shewent, and found her husband sitting bythe fire (poor cuckold) warming himself,not thiuking where his wife had been, norat whose fire she had been warmed.When she perceived he was ignorantwhere she had been, she thought he hadmade himself so on purpose to hear whatshe would say. She sitting by the firevery melancholy, at length her husbandasked her what made her so disconsolate?She answered, she was not very well. Thecuckold being very kind, as most are,caused a cordial to be prepared for her jyet she could not be well for di-ree or fourdays,Tom took no notice of her at that time ;but some short space thereafter, he spoketo her in this manner ; Good, mistress, Isee you have been very melancholy thesethree or four days : If you are any waysdiscontented, I will venture my life to pur.chase your content; or if any one hath done10you injury. I‘ll spend every drop of bloodin my body to right you, if you will butlet me know the cause of your being thussad and sorrowful. She hearing him speakthus unto her, which he never did before,checked him for his sauciness, by biddinghim be gone, which he instantly did ; butsaid, as he was going out, Though I haveoffended you now,- somebody will pleaseyou before night; that being tne day heappointed to meet her.She hearing him say so, mistrusted heknew, and having a guilty conscience,asked what it was he said ! Tom repliedsuddenly to her again, I hope you’ll bepleased before night j yet though jouthink I know nothing, you would be gladif 1 did not know what I do.She being touch’d to the quick, gavehim half a crown to tell her what he meant:This is the thing that I mean, said he,and pulled the piece of her petticoat outof his pocket: She blushing, gave him apiece of gold, begging of him not to tellher husband, hoping he did not know al¬ready. No, said Tom, he does not knownor will I ever tell him. When he hadpromised to her not to tell, she asked himhow he came by it ^ He answered, I amhe that cut it off. Then she, blushingmore and more, said.Dear Tom, if thou this secret will not impart,A purse of gold I'll give thee with all my heart $Nay I'll kies and love thee without measure.And study day and night to yield thee pleasure.I have no power to frown or angry be jI’ll not resist, do what you list "with me.Tom, hearing this, gave her a kiss.But first he went to shut and lock the door;Then did to her as he bad done before ;The scene chang'd no more in awe he'll stand,For now the man the mistress doth command.12Now Tom lived more like her husbandthan an apprentice, having store of choicedainties given him daily to eat, moneyenough, fine clothes, his bed warmedevery night in the winter time, and whenhis master was out of town, lay with hismistress, but unknown to the maid, or hisfellow ‘prentice.Tom’s mistress proving so kind, atlength his master took notice of it, andgirew jealous ; yet he thought it vus onlya fancy of his, till at length it became soplain, that he could not but take notice ofrt, and therefore resolved, if possible, tofind them out. So one day hg feignedthat a lord, who lived in the country,had sent for him to take measure to makehim a suit, and that lie was to lie thereall night; but be acquainted the maidwith his design, giving a piece of goldcharging her at twelve o’clock at night toopen the door when lie gave but oneknock. He hired a horse, and had itbrought to the door, the beUer to blindhis wife, then mounted and rode away.Tom and his mistress being glad of theooportunity, and thinking themselves safeat night she went to bed, and he to heras soon as his fellow ’prentice was asleep,and there they enjoyedtheir wished desires.13But what shoild prove their mishap! attwelve o’clock her husband knocked atthe door, and he being let in by the maid,went directly up stairs to their bed-side,dfew the curtain, and there beheld hiswife and his man Tom encircled in oneanother's arms, both being fast asleep.When he beheld them lying so lovingly,he was scarce able to contain himself with¬in the bounds of reason, but was ready topull them out of bed, yet pausing a whileupon it, resolved to make an example ofthem both, and first of Tom.When he had called up the maid to seeand bear witness of it, he left the room,and them asleep’, ami between two andthree o'clock in the afternoon, the nextday, he came home, taking no notice ofwhat he had seen in the night. The nextday, ]n order to Tom's punishment he hadhim warned before the chamberlain, whichstartled him and his mistress when theyheard it; she wondered that she did notknow it; neither of them mistrusting thatit was for that. But she, that morninghe was to appear before the chamberlain,asked her husband what Tom had donethat he should be brought before thechamberlain? To which he replied, Youshall know before night.14When the time came that Tom appear¬ed before the chamberlain, his master madethis complaint of him : Worshipful sir,1 have brought my man before you to havehim severely punished, for being so impu- ■dent and saucy as to lie with my wife; andto prove the truth of it, I have broughtmy maid to witness it j Therefore I intreatyour worship to punish him with ail theseverity the Jaw can inflict.The chamberlain hearing what a fool he jwas to proclaim himself a cuckold, smiled Iin conceit ; then called Tom, and asked Ihim, Whether that was true which his lmaster said against him ? To which he ianswered, if it please your worship, I can- *not deny it. You are, said the chamber,lain, an impudent rogue. Not said Tom, jsuch an impudent rogue, as your worship ;i takes me to be. Come, sirrah, said Jthe chamberlain, Til teach you to set your hwords closer together. He, observing!Tom to be very arch, reproving him, by \telling him what a great sin it was, and ibidding bim fly from the embraces of hismistress, as Joseph did. May h please Iyour worship, said Tom, if his mii,tres3 thad been so fair as mine he would not jhave forsaken her. The chamberlain ;hearing this jest, 1 *d iato a great laughter, ,15as likewise did all those that were then pre¬sent, and iraraediately dismissed him, with¬out any punishment.His master seeing him discharged so,and himself made the object of all hisneighbours sport and laughter, made whathaste he could home, and told his wife ina great rage, That if ever she let Tom liewith her again, he would turn them bothout of doors, and put them to seek forfresh quarters: but if she would promisenever to lie with him again, all should bewell, and he would forgive ail whateverwas past, ghe made a thousand protesta¬tions to obey his commands, and nevermore to offend in the like nature ; yet,notwithstanding of all her promises, shemade use of all opportunities to steal intoI the sweet embraces cf her pretty Tom.CHAP. 111.Shelving hotv Tom was revenged on the maid for nottelling him his Master's Design in tailing him and hisMistress in the Bed together. Of his Mistress's Death;and of his being turned out of doors.WHEN this quarrel was over, and all' things quiet, Tom studied how tobe revenged on the maid for not acquaint¬ing him and his mistress of his master’splot, in catching him with his mistress.Tom at length imagined she and his fellow#16'prentice were married, sometimes missinghim in the night, yet never suspected anything but only that he rose out of hisbed j so now he resolved to watch him,and afterwards slept as dogs sleep for threeor four nights together, and observed himconstantly to go to her ; But one nightwhen they were at supper, Tom put sleep,ing powder into his fellow ’prentice'sdrink, to make him sleep sound j andabout one o’clock, the same hour he usedto rise, he jugged him, that he might knowif he was asleep. Tom perceiving he wasasleep, arose, and went to his fellow 'pren¬tice’s wife, but resolved, if she spoke, on¬ly to whisper, she, lying awake ready toreceive him. When she heard him, shedesired him to drink that pint of sack,thinking Tom to be her husband : So whenhe had drank it, she received him intoher arms, embracing him very lovingly,there remaining two hours, enjoying hisheart's delight, then with a parting kiss,he bid her adieu.Tom coming to his own bed, he foundhis fellow 'prentice fast asleep as he lefthim. Jn the morning about six o’clock,,Tom arose, leaving him asleep, and went,down, the supposed maid being up, tothank her for the sack he drank, and the17kind entertainment she gave him in herbed. O heavens said she, was it you !I beg you on my>knees never to revealit j for if you do, I am undone } for Ethought you to be your fellow ’prentice,to whom I am married. No, said he.I’ll be even with you now.The more he threatened to tell, themore she persuaded him to keep it secret,offering, him any thing he would desire.Since you are so willing to have in conceal¬ed, said he, I will take some pity on you,though you would not of me: Bring medown half a year’s wages. She yielding togive him the money, but not to lie withhim, as he had farther requested of her.When she found she could not prevail, sheyielded also to lie with him ; but shortlyafter she proved with child, an*l left herservice, desiring him never to reveal it,which he promised never to do.In a month after she was gone, his mis.tress fell sick and died, and he out with^histime within a fortnight thereafter. Hismaster being still incensed against him,turned him out of doors that very day histime expired ; so that Tom could not tellwhether to go, nor what to do. Now hisbest friend, and loving mistress, was dead,being ashamed to go near any of his rela-18tions, he having proved so very ungratefulto them in his apprenticeship.,CHAP IV.Shewing how Tomjorsook London ; his Lamentation athis departure ; of his being entertained by an old Wo¬man, who was very rich in Leeds, in Yorkshire ;Likewise how he promised to marry her and sixteenMaids in one Day, whom he got with Child in six¬teen Weeks; Lastly, how he appointed them all tomeet him at a particular place ; and how he deceived’them and left the Town.SOON after Tom’s dear mistress wasdead, being almost in despair, heresolved to take a ramble into the coun¬try, hoping to find some employmentthere. In order to which, he providedwhat necessaries he stood in need of, andther^ie set forward on his journey. Andwhen he was about a mile fiom London,in a'pleasant field, upon a green bank, ona bright sun-shining day, he sat down andmade this sad lamentation—O Fortune ! frown po more as thou hast done,But let thy joys shine bright as doth the sun;Let me no more upon the sea of Fate be toss’d,Nor think of her whom I have lately lost;My loving mistress, whom 1 made my slave,Is fled from me, for to embrace the grave.Triumphing grief! I fear my heart will break,My tears gush forth, my tongue can scarcely speak,None ever yet did weep and mourn like me,Nor none sure that had the like destiny. —19But hold-—in Vain I grieve for her thatT» gone,Ijo more to the regardless air will moan ;If Fortune will but smile but once again.I’d quit myself of all this grief and pain.Farewell rich London, and my mother too.For unto both 1 now must bid adieu.Tom having eased his mind, rose up,and went on till he came to Leeds, wherehe was entertained very kindly by a richold woman, both for bed and board ; forhe no sooner asked her, but she consentedand was very glad when he sued her foraffection, whom she daily wished to enjoy;yet kept off at a seeming distance for sometime, though not long.soThis old woman doating on him, gavehim any thing he desired ; and Tom havingher purse as well as her person at com¬mand, asked her one day, when he hadbeen very familiar witn her, to lend himsome money to set up ; she not havingthe power to deny him, let him havesome.He being set up, though in her house,made himself acquainted with all the maidshe could, who thought themselves neverso happy as when they were iu Tom's com¬pany, and brought him all the work theypossibJy^could. Tom seeing them so lov¬ing and kind to him, tickled their fancieswith pretty love stories ; and one abovethe rest, named pretty Betty, imaginedTom loved her, never having a sweetheartbefore; therefore every day she would car¬ry him a leg of a goose of a turkey, orsome ether ol her choice dainties. Tomseeing how kind and loving she was, madeher think he loved her, but resolved neverto marry her.There were many other maids he pre¬tended the like kindness for, which hisold landlady perceiving, grew jealous ofhim. So one day after Tom had beenkissing one of the maids before her, she21quarrelled with him, threatening to turnhim to the door, and also to arrest himfor what money he owed her. Tom soonquell’d her passion with some sweetloving words, and was received intofavour again, but resolved never to kissany of the maids before her face, butwent home unto their houses, there beingsixteen of them, whom he got all withchild in sixteen weeks, and promised tomarry them all.Sometimes one would come urging himfor to marry, and sometimes another $ buthe pretended several things to be in hisway, so that he could not mairy yetTHowever, one day, to blindfold them, hebought himself a gold ring, and first hetold his landlady, if she would lend himfive pounds, he would marry her withthat ring ; to which she agreed, for thenshe thought hefself sure of him.When he had got the five pounds, heappointed her to meet him at such a stile,about half a mile from Leeds, at eighto’olock precisely. In like manner he wentotl with all the sixteen maids whom he hadgot with child, shewing them the ringthat he should marry them with, whorejoiced as much tu see it as if they werealready married, and gave to each of them22a yard of scarlet ribbon to wear under thechin that day, desiringevery one in particularto meet him the next morning at eighto’clock exactly, and then to go and bemarried, to which they all agreed: Butyet he requested one thing of every one ofthem, and that was, to lend him all themoney they could; for he had, as he ;!feigned, laid all his money out to buya bargain of clothes with. They believedhim ; so one lent him five pounds, somemore, some less, accordingly as they had ;and when he had got what money he could,he returned to bed.The next morning, rising very early,he denied his landlady to dress herself to bemarried, which she did, and went direetly28;! to the place appointed. After she v?asI gone, Tom rode out of town in greati haste; but not to meet his landlady andthe rest of his mistresses, as he had pro¬mised ; but before he went, he wrote thesefollowing lines, and left them under hislandlady’s pillow.I Farewell, old hostess, my smooth flattering tongue,I Hath prov‘d too old for you, tho‘ I‘m but young $1 You thought you had me sure, and that this night,! I should with license yield you much delight.You that oftimes claim'd debts of me must stay,t For I‘m resolv'd myself to double pay,J Could you so much a fool think me to be,I: To take one that's so old and cold as thee ?j No, the cape is far more jest as it doth stand,1 For you tao oft had me at your command.Before his landlady was arrived at thei place appointed, there overtook her first) one supposed maid, with a red ribbonunder her chin, then another, and another,^ until eleven passed by. The old womani teeing so many pass by with ribbons under1 their chins, wondered very much, till at1 length she came unto the style, where shej saw all those that had passed by her, andI five more, all sighing and wondering ateach other.At length they espied a man coming to-I wards them, and made what haste theyii could to meet him t But when they saw it24,was not him, none broke silence, for fearof betraying themselves. The man speak,ing to them, said, I have a message todeliver to >ou, but was charged not to de¬clare it, till I approach the stile. Andas soon as he was come thither, they beinggathered round about him, he pulled thesefollowing lines out of his pocket, they be-i ig sent by Wanton Tom to read to the«n,Tfl you poor lasses, I these lines do send,Confessing each of yon have been my friend ;Some brought me work, some dainties for to eat,Not thinking ever I should prove a cheat.’Tia tree your hearts and minds they now are pierc’d,But who will laugh, you’re all alike distress’d,Nay, my old hostess theught this day to marry,Yet, she like you, for me must longer tarry;.AncHi your money will as freely spend,As ye your maidenheads to me did lend.Now for yonr maidenheads you may complain.Your hearts and money to return again,Sigh and lament,but’twill be all in ■vain.Then farewell you, from Leeds I now am gone,And not contracted unto any one.When I again do hear where he doth dwell,A second part of his mod pranks I’ll tell.FINIS.