CHRIST’S NAPKIN:ASERMONPREACHED INKIRKCUDBRIGHTAT THECOMMUNION.■■'■' "      ■ 'BY THAT FAMOUS FLOWER OF THE CHURCH,Mr. SAMUEL RUTHERFORD.T- ' ' .. REV. XXI. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. ^And God jball wipe away all tears from their eyes,and there Jhall he no more deatht neither forrovs,nor crying, neither Jloall there be any more pain;for former things are patfed away. And he thatfat upon the throne, faid, Behold I make all thingsnew. And he faid unto me, Write: for theftwords are true and faithful, &c.G L A S G O V.',Printed by j. and m. robertson,£no. i8.] saltmarkeTjs 8 07. ' r;i:'Sr( 2 }CHRIST’S NAPKINACOMMUNION SERMON.Rev. xxr. 4, j, 6, 7, 8.And God JhaH -wipe away all tears from their eyes% ;and there fsall be no more deaths neither for rczvynor crying, neither Jl'all there he any more fain rfor former things are paffed away. And he thatfat upon the throne, /aid, Behold I make all thingsnew. And he fend unto me, Write * for thefewords are true andfaithful, t®JV.THIS text contains four things. Firft, Theftate of the glorified, ver. 4. .Secondly, Apart of Chrifi’e office, ver. 5. Thirdly, A ddcrip-tion of his Nature. Fourthly, The promifes. As,I. Drink to fatisfy the thirfly. 2. An inheritanceto the Overcomers, or overcoming foldiers. The3. Is a threatening of eternal wrath to offenders a-;gainft the firft and fecond table of the law, ‘ And ’God (hail wipe away all tears.’ When friends meet |they give the ftranger his welcome home. Here 1is .the Pilgrim’s welcome home that our FriendChrift gives us: this was given from heaven, andtherefore, it is tree doftrine. Then we fee thattheiMi : fnfTenngs and tears of the faints’m ill be wb-«[ away and reaaoved, but not fullv, while the lifeji: conac; for here is Chrift’s welcome home to poormers; for they come all to him with wet face',d bleared with tears for fin, and the manifold.oubles in this Life; and Chriil meets them at thenor with a fair foft Napkin in his hand, and puts> his hand to their faces, and fays, Hold your■ngue, mv dear bairns, ye (hall never weep again,nd indeed, in my judgement, it is a fpeech borrow-1 from a mother that has a bairn with a broken,ce all bloody, and all bleared with tears, and itDines to her, and woes her heart to fee him fo,lid (he fits down and -wipes the tears from his eyes,id lays her hand foftly on the wound, and lays■ is head in her bread, and dights away the blood,nd lays her two arms about him, and there is nond of fair words. So when Chrift and we (hail; aeet in heaven, he will huPs us up, and wipeway all tears, and lay our b^ds in his bofom.lee how he alludes to this place, IPa. liv. ri. ‘O: thou afflicted, toiled with temped, and not com-oforted: behold, I will lay thy foundation withiHapphires,’ &c. It is there, to (peak (b, our Lordi s ruing that ever he had handled his faints as he.Mid, Ha. Ixv. 18. < Be glad and rejoice for evermoreii in that which I create; for behold, I create Je-W rufalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.’ verfe.«y. ‘ And I will rejoice in Jerufalem, and joy in-tj my people, and the voice of weeping (hall be nomore heard in her, nor the voice of crying.’ IfifVer there was a blyth meeting between two, itmud be between the bridegroom and the bride inthe marriage-day. And what a tper-ting there isbf joy betwixt Inch a bridegroom and bride ca’cnctebe conceived: For Chrift that day will Jiave on allhis4C H R IS T’S N A P KI N,his beft clothes, nnd fnch a bride as the Larawife, what a welcome will (Ire get! To get a dritat our firft meeting and incoming to heaven,the well of the water of life. O 1 trong comfort!) Iwater ! When we (lull be clothed and not a wroi 1% ' -pin in us. A fair bride in filks and purple IChrift’s own bulking; and Chrift our Lord flu [prelent his bride to his Father and our Father-i ■law, the Father of our hulband, fhall take us b!the hand and lead us ben the houfe to the dininihall, and fet us down at a table to feaft our fiupon the tree of life. O ! ftrong comforting wtter, the well of life, to feaft upon the Trinity fc >evermore. Now mock and fcorn the way to hes •ven as ye pleale, ye never heard of true happine |till now. Here is a banquet of joy for evermore \* He (hall wipe away all tears.’ Chrift our Lonlihere wipes the tears from the bairns’ faces; yet af«.ter that they weep new tears: he never wipes awa;|all tears till now. Here (hall be our laft good-nigbof death : good-night, mourning and crying, antiforrow; we fhall be on the other fide of the waterover beyond the black river of death; for Chrif(Rev xx. 14.)< fhall take away death and hell, anc« caft them into prifon; former things are done a-< way.’ The mother that has left her bairns fhalget them : AH the Lord’s widows fhall get theithufbands; the old world which was the mourningworld (hall be away ; and, therefore, never unti'now fhall all t ars be wiped away, for it is theway- The Kirk is half a widow here, her Lord isin an uncouth country, far from her here, and ilkaiov/n round about plucks at this filly widow, while(he is in the valley of Baca, wherein is no wa¬ter- The watchman ftriketh her and taketh herveil from her; aud Chrilt writeth a love-letter to;her,,i A COM MUNION S E R M ON. 5i •, and after flic has read it, fhe rejoiceth and wip-i I her face, but, when the letter grows old,' andi f has loft the letter, new troubles come on, fheds new tears, and flie comes under new perie-ions, and her Lord, for her fin, goes in behind: wall, and hides himfelf, and lets her mournr fill; but, in that day, he * (hall wipe away allears from her eyes,’ lee then how it goes hereIthis life; firit a fair day, then again a foul day,lile. at laft that fair day dawns that all our (hadowsall flee away; but there (hall never be a foul dayter that; but ay the long lading fummer-day forermorc. Ye fee a man travelling to his home,re is a water, then dry land, then another wa-*, then dry land, then a water, and only dry land'tween and his home; then he goes home to hisfife and bairns, and has no more water; but allir tears are never dry’d till we come to heaven ;r the Lints have a life-rent rack of the crofs ofIhrifl while they are here, and ay, ill wertther,atth. x. ever the crofs. See John xvi. our Lordjptnpar.es our troubles to the pains that come upona woman travailling, now a fhower, and then ibme[life a ihower again, and then eafe, ay till the laft:/dower th.it (he be delivered, and then no Ihowers;ne remenabereth no more pains, for joy that aiuan-child is born into the world. We muft bep pain err our birth be born ; but will be deliver-itj of our birth.4 Ule 1. Let us prepare, for tears wifi follow us»p heaven, unto the very entry of the door onr facetaall be wet, for we go out of this life fad andIJroani&g for this miferable life, and to thruft thro’jhe laft port, and to wade thro’ the hindermoftwater, it is a fore-let: but be blyth Chriftians, and;rip to the promife; but ye that laugh now,/and feyareiip IAfiMi6CHRIS T’S NAPKIN,are far from tears, that mock the mourner of 2on, ye m.:y figh acd clofe the I'ible, and fay ala;J never Hied a tear for Chrift, yon text is not 1j;:e : It may be Chrift (hal! that day gar you we tand fired tears for evermore. This Tour laughit ttvt'urld will away; there is a day of tears comicon you, greeting and gnifhing of teeth. And whc ia man gnafheth his teeth one again!! another, 1has no mind of laughing: but } would not ha'your mirth for a world, be doing, we will lee wfwill laugh faffeft yon day.Ufe 2 There is an ill coming on this land: flis not cott'e to a full harveft God’s bairns, th;can now mourn for thdr own fins, and the fins ithe land, rejoice in heaven, there is never a greeting bairn feen there; God has a napkin to dig!their faces! It is the laughing, rejoicing peoplthat God dcflroys.« He that fat upon the throne/ John hearetmore of Chriff, a fweet fpeech. Here three thingfa. A fpenker. 2. A fpeech. 3. A difeftion tkeep the fpeech. Who fpake the fpeech is notold; whether an angel or an earthly king; fothey fit on thrones alfo; but it is he of whom it ifiiid, Rev. iv. 2. * And a throne wFas fet, and om‘ fat on the throne/ John tells not his name, buhe thmketh fo much of him, that he takes it a;granted, that there is none worthy to be a king bu;he, and to fit upon a throne but he. The faints me*fure all affeffions of others by their own affedions;as if one afked at John, who is he that fits uponthe throne ? He would have anfwered, what needye a(k, is there any in heaven or earth in my efti-fliation worthy to be a king but He ? and to fit up¬on a throne but He? and to tike a crown upon hi®head but H« ? The faints fet ay Chrift alone, theyA COMMUNION SERMON. 7let him above all; fpeak of kings to them, beti Chrift is out of play. So Caat. ii. The kirk meet-ag with the watchman, faith, ‘ Saw ye him whommy (otil loveth V what kend the watchman whominner ioui loveth ? for (he might have loved a lown,br a harlot, or aa idol-god, or the world; but (he: tnealured the watchman by herfelf: there was nonein her mind but Cbrilf; and therefore (lie neededmot tell them as (he thought. So Mary Magdalene,Ijohn xx. 15. fays to the gardener (as (lie thought)* Sir, if ye have borne him hence, tell me where ye* have laid him (he tells not of what him ; tak-1 ing as granted, none was lb much in her mind asChrifl, nay, I pray yon, let the fame mind be inyou that was in John. Let Chrill be to yoar foul!the pearl of the ring. Amongft all kings, ChriftI fhould be made high and clteemed as He, the onlyI He, that is worthy to fit on the throne. So Cant. v»is He is the kirk the chief among ten thoufand. Ga-»hcr all the angels, and all the faints in heaven andi'S earth together, Chrift is too good to be their cap-tun; and, indeed, what is all that fits upon thethrone? It muft be infinitely more in him: and« what glory is in the world, is far more in him.a. Take all the roles on the earth, and put them all inene, that would be a dainty light; and now whatare all thefe to Chrift ? no more than a nettle tothe faireft rofe: fy upon the taftdels love of menthat never love Jefus Chrift and yet falleth in lovewith lufts: they lore gold, riches and honour, and; put Chrift to a backfide; ay, Chrift gets not hisown amongft us, we commend him not, neitherwill we match with him.Thirdly, ‘ I will make all things new.’ This isas much as all things were old; fin has made allthings old, Rom. viii. They are like a womangroining!—aSJC H R I S TJS NAPKIN,groaning in child-birth with pain and vanity, be-caufc ot our fin; all the aeation are lickeoed be-;-»ulc of fin; becaufe of our fin, vanity came om tthe Sun, Moon, and other creatures, they figh un- j'der this, and pray their kind of mallifon, and awoe to m.iD, for fin has made us all miferable.,The heavens, that are t^ie greateil part of the web |of the world, wax old as a garment. The pro- rphet fays, they are like an old clout. The waterfaith, let me drown finners, they have finned a- jgainit my Lord; the fire faith, let me burn them, J1let me burn Sodom, for they have finned againff 'my Lord. Ail things have loft their glory that Ithey got in their firft creation; Jefus faith, all things |are gone wrong, and quite out of order; and man, Ifallen from his Lord: and he did even with the jrworld, as a pilot once with an inattentive man at :the rudder, fleering the (hip on a fand-bank, heftept in quickly and turned her incontinent, or elleall would have gone to confufion. So our Lordftepped in, when the great fhip of the world wasrunning on a land-bank, the fun and moon lookedlad-like, and faid they would ferve us. Our Lordrenewed them by his death, and made them alllaugh on the eleft again, and gave them all a luitof new clothes. Drunkard, Chrift gave his blef-fing to the wine that ye Ipue on the walls. Yethat dilhonour your Maker with your vain apparel,ye know not what it coft Chrift; our Lord bled to ,buy a right of them that ye abufe in vanity. Allthat fet the world in their hearts, where the Lordfhould be, forget that Chrift bought the world tobe their fervant, and not to be as their darling andwife, that lies in their bofom. Ye that make theearth and the broad acres of it your foul’s portion,fo as ye defire no more but land, yet forget ChrirtthatA COMMUNION SERMON. 9that bought the world, and made it new to be afoot-ftooi, and not a chair for their fouls to litdown upon And if GhVifi has this art to makeall things new, come unto him all ye that are old,ye that have old hearts come. Indeed Chrift mayget his craft among us, if w’ would go to him,,for he makes all things new. fhe devil borrowsanother man’s heart for covetoufnefs, and he hascrooked it with the thorny cares of this world, andholed it, and dung the bottom out of if. O ifye would put it in Chrift’s hand, he would put itin his furnace and melt it again, and by his artbring it ont a new heart for hinafeif to dwell in.Alas! Chrift gets not his trade or calling amongus ; but, why are not our old hearts mended ! be-caufe wc handle them as a fooiifh mother do'h adauted bairn, fhe will not let him go to fchool tolearn, and why ? becaufe (he dow na want himout of her fight; file will therefore never let himdo well, but feed him to the gallows. Wc do notgive away our fouls to Chrift who would fain havethem, and eafily mend them; but juft keep themlike the foolah mother, out of Chrift’s company.And pride keeps another man’s heart, and covet-oufnels another man’s heart; that dear craftfmanChrift, that made the heart, and made the earthunder our feet new, and the mountains new, yetwe will not have our hearts new; our fouls are allhanging in tatters, worn and old with fin, and wedo not put them in Chrift’s hand that wou'J makethem whole and cleaofe them. Fy upon thee thatthy garden was,curftd in Adam’s day to bring forthnettles and thorns, and is blefted to bring out fruitin Chrift, and thy foul gets not fo much good inChrift as thy garden; it is made new and thy foulremains old, and Chrift gets not his craft amongus.13CII R I S T’S N A P K I N,us. He bids John write thele things concerningthe ftate of the glorified, and calls them faithfuland true; he would oot intruft his word to man’smemory and coufciedce: he would have it written.Blafphemous papifts, laugh not at this, nor callthe Pope’s bread the Bible ; here a warrant for thewritten fcripture. But indeed it tells that man'sfalfehood wore his confidence; had his conficiencebeen a faithful regilfer, there Ihould have been nomore need of a written Bible: but now the Lordhas lippened more to dead paper more than a livingman’s foul. Our confcience, now under (in, hasuot been a good Bible: becaufe man is ready torun away from his conficience; becaufie what iswritten in our conficience, as there is a Gop, aJudgement, 3 Heaven, a Hell; .Satan andfin come in as two falfie witnefies, and blot outthat, and write that in the fool’s heart, that faysthere is no God. And there are many holes in ourfouls; the word of God comes in and runs out a-gain and back-fipouts, except Jefius make their foulwater-fad, lb that the word of God may dwell inthem plentifully, Colcf. iii. ib. Is not our heartscompared to a field, wherein the preacher fows thefeed, Mar. xiii. and the black fpirits of hell comeand gather up Chrid’s wheat. O but there aremany running-out foals, and much need we haveof a written Bible, and therefore make much of thewritten word, and pray God to copy his Bible inall, and every one of our hearts, and to write anew’ book of his doftrine in our hearts, and putit into the confcience as he directs, Jcr. xxi. f. Ofhis prohecy. 2. A defeription. 3. A promifeof matter. Chrid fays to' John, it is done. Thatis exponded in Rev. xvi. 17. The world is ended,fo (peaks Chrid of the world, and the glory of itpaffethI ;| .A C O M M U NIO N S £ R M 0 N. < i: ^safieth away as the twinkling of an eye, anil Chriilicrieth to thole who have the world in their arms,lit k donej it is a paft thing, there is no m.ire ofif. It is but "a word to our Lord, he laid. Let ailIthings be, and they were. He Lid, Let all things:be, and they are at an end. — -\nd we are begin-ini-ng with the world, as if it wo aid be evermoreours; fcnJ our Lord fays, in a moment, let us beplucked from them, and it is done. It is not fornothing that the taking down of this Inns of heavenand earth is touched ia fo few words, It is done,for it is an eafy thing for the Almighty to take theiftaves ia his own hand that holderh tip this fairtent, and when he pulleth it, he garreth it comedown with a titt. So Rev. xt. Four angels are^brought in, holding the four winds in their handsas if they had the world ifi their hands, and as if'they had it ready to fold up as a flieet. And, O 1what a fighting and bulbing do they make to get aclout of this (beet*, he ftareth out his eyes, andhe letteth out his neck for a piece of this hollyklout and fheet, and for a globe, of the earth. Butdee, Rev. vi. 14. The heavens lhall depart awaylike a fcroll of parchment that is rolled together,and the fair ftorics thereof are like figs, with theIhake of the Almighty’s arm they (hall fall togetherj to the ground and what more with a touch of tha.'Almighty’s hand, or a putt of his little finger,i'with the blah of his mouth, faying, ‘ It is done.’IThe cupples of the walls of the houie cometh down.'Now, I cannot but Ipeak of fools that h we theirIhead fnll' of wind-mills, and cry it is beginning,* and to-morrow thail be as this day, and much‘ more abundant.’ Ifa. Ivi. And there is no endHof buying and building; I came not here to bidany body be unthrifty; but not to be like bairnsbuild-12C H R 1 S T’S N A P K I N,building Tandy bourocks at a water-fide, when pre.fently a fpate of water comes and fpoils all theirfport, or a fiiower chafes them in from their play. •men are even building caftles in the air. In very tdeed we are like bairns holding the water at a rivei :>fide with their hands, they think (daft things) they ?hold the water, while in the mean time it runt t1thro’ their fingers. And what fays God of honour friches, pleafurej lands, fair houfes, Turns of mo- ■ney; even that in a word, all is done. Aik at t(them that had the world once at wilt, and had <■broad lands, and what is to the fore of fo many ,thoufands ? Nothing but their name: And whaiif their name be loll too ? What has the world o.them but their name? and what is that, ten or e*leven letters of the A, B, C; and for their bodies. .howbeit when they were living, kingdoms would -not content them, and yet the clay in which the ■bodies are diffolved, would not now fill a glove.I think that a true word, and a ftrange fpokerword, Ifa. xl. 22. ‘ God fits in the circle of theheavens, and all the world are as grafs-hoppers.’We even creep like grafs-hoppers up and down the .globe of this earth, and cry to men of the vanities tof all things, while death comes like a little com- rmon-thief, without any din or feet, and olucksthem away, and there is no more of them, and :then they fay, it is done. All men will fay, it istrue that I fay: but. I think to be dead ere they be¬lieve it, or be brought to hate the world. I tbinlithe world is the devil’s great hairy water-net, thathas taken thoufands and fiain them, ye 'fav ye are rfare of it. Then I fay ye are a dyeted horfe foi .heaven.The fecoad thing that is in the verfe, is a de-1-feription of Chrifi, ‘ I am Alpha and Omega, the |beginning 1!.A COMMUNION SERMON. 13beginning and the end.’ Our Lord here being tomake an offer of the water of life; he firfl: fhew-: eth what he is, even the firft and the laft letters<1 of the A, B, C ; ‘ The ancient of days, the eternal: Son of the eternal God.’ It teaches us that wer may crack more of our old holding, and old charter,than all the world can do: For why ? When began, Chiift to bear a good-will to a firmer? Even whenhe began to be God; and he was God from all e-ternity. Suppofe the fun in the firmament were! eternal, the light of it behoved to be eternal: for1 the light of the fun is as old as the fun. Love is1 a beam of light, and heat that comes from Chrift. the Sun of righteoulhefs; therefore ever-living., Chrift, and ever-loving dove: for love comes not: ;on Chrift the day which was not on him yefterday;man’s love and a king’s love are very much huntedti for, and yet they die, and their love dies with them,Iand often their love dies before themfelves: butwho feeks Chrift’s love that changes not ? yea, thisis a matter of admiration and wonder that Chriftillhould have thought on us worms of clay ere evert'® we were, and that our falvation is as old as ever-Imore, and as old as Chrift, and Chrift as old asGod-, for indeed, if God fhould begin at any pointof time to love finners, his love fhonld have had aibeginning; and if his love fhpuid have had a be¬ginning, Chrift himfelf (hould have had a begin¬ning ; becaufe love with him is one with his efienceand nature: But it may be faid, can the love ofj|God be older than the death of Chrift ? Anfwert1 Chrift’s death doth not make God properly a hateror a lover of man, for then both his will (hould hechangeable, and his love have a beginning. Howthen ? Chrift’s death not only let God kythe the1 fruits of his eternal love out upon hs, but afterfueh/==3fc:14C H R I S T’S N A P K 13S,fuch a way as he thought convenient for his jalike; *and therefore we are faid in leripture to be recon¬ciled to God ; and God is faid.to be reconciled to . ^us; his love is everlafting; becaufe by order of na-, ,ture it is before the feed, before we had done d* ?ther good or evil; lb that fin Ihould not change,God’s mind, but only by order of Judice; fin floodin the way to hinder us from life everlafting, which «is a fruit of his love; yea more, God with that famelove in Chrifl, loveth the cleft before and after con- ’verfion; and therefore, we have to rejoice in feeling ;any of God’s love to us in Chrift. It is eld acquaint- s?ance betwixt him and us ; and therefore, as it isfolly in man (as Solomon faith) to caft off his oldfriend, and his father’s friend; fo let us think itmadnefs to caft off filch an old friend as Chrifl, andlet our faith hold fad by this, under temptations anddefertions; Alpha and Omega changeth not, thechange is in us.The third thing in the words is a promife of thewater of life to the thirfly, Ifaiah Iv i. and Johnxiii. 17. Chrifl at the mercat-cro's dies the wellfree; but learn firlf, the thirlly and hungry fouls,are meeteft for the waters of life. What! (ye willfay) are not all thirfly ? all want the life of Godand the fap of grace, and are burnt and witheredat the root; but all know not their own wants;but indeed fpeciat comfort for the weak ones to fay,O fi;y tbev, I know Chrift doth good to believers,to repenters, and to fuch as love him ; but I downot, nor cannot win to faith and repentance, hopeand patience; I have too fhort ao arm to rax lbhigh. Then, fay I, have yea delire, a hunger forfaith and repentance and love? now upon yourconfcience fpeak the truth; I trow ye cannot denyit. Then your Lord bids you come, the well isripenA COMMUNION SERMON, i;sen onto you; for hunger and thirlt being nexti< motion, are the two properties that begin firltith life. So every thing that is new-born is live-, and hath a ftomach for meat and drink. Oat fay ye, I am many times in my foul even atmath’s door; I have neither faith nor feeling I In even at this, God loves me not, and the wellnot ordained for me at thefe times. Would yelin be at the well ? now in my mind 5ft* cannotin away. The children of God, when at theweft ebb, even when faith, comfort, joy, love,ltd a difpofition to pray is away, is there not anging for prelence. I fpeak to the confcienceGod’s child, lie not. No, David (Pfalm vi.)ihen he thought God ftrake hin in his wrath,as at, ‘ How long Lord ?’ a cutred word ; I think'at he looked like a poor hungry beatl:, lookinger the dyke, who would fain have had a mouth-:1; He was even going about to feek a Hap toifeak o’er the dyke of his doublings. And lb it.•with God’s bairns under their thirfl for the wellf life. See Cant. iit. when the kirk can git nowring of Chrilf, and has no fmell of him, andnnot find the print of his foot; yet fhe is at this,Saw ye him whom my foul loveth ?’ and chap. ii.[ charge you tell him, that !• am fick of love.’ipen let me now fpeak to weak ones, and I willl you who are Chrift’s companions that drinkIth him, and (hall get their heads and hearts fullI the water of life; even the tender ChrilVianlat is ay fpeaking; the bairn in Chrifl’s houfelat is raoft cumberfome, and makes moft din fors meat, is the bed bairn that Chrift has; therim that is greeting ilk hour of the day for a pieceId a drink: we fay of fuch a filly thing he fainipuld Jove. Ay the cumberfomer that Chrift’sbairnsC H R I S T’S N A P k I N,16bairns be, they are ay the welcomer. Nay, he Io7'eth the bairns beft that have no ftiame, and arc a'crying alas ! black hunger, dear Lord Jeihs, I aaburnt with third: O for an open cold fountain,it is a fweet thing ay to be whinging and crvingand feeking about Chrift’s pantry-doors, and to hoian eye upon Chrid when he goes into the houfe awine, into his Father’s fair lucky wine-cellar wherthere are many wines, and bout in at Chrid’s bad*But in a word, have ye a good domach ? muchunger and third, will get much fatisfaftion cgrace in Chrid: now, who are they who are debatred from Chrid’s well! Anfnu. 1’hefe who have go1ten an ill drink from the devil, fnll of luds, prid«jand covetonfnefs, full of love of the world ; fuare they that have no domach for Chrid; alas, awoes me, Chrid dandeth at the well’s fide, acrieth the back of my hand to you. The Lor ;Jefus gives you a vomit to drink, that yon may gro*wholefome and hungry again for Chrid; for, whiithen, ye are never meet for Chrid. fs there nta time when ye cannot get prefence, and ye havno pith to put up-the door and bout in, but puthalf up, and blink in P love to pray, or defire ybut a time of prayer ? hold on then, there ye airight, the true defire is abfolnte, and not condltional: not like the dnggard that wad have a crcupon condition he might have a feather-bed toon for fear of cold; even fo they would have he:ven upon condition they might keep their luftand take their luds with them. Hut, Second!Hunger is ay feeking thro’ the whole houfe, for tf Ibelly can hardly play the hypocrite. The naturiman is in darknefs, he is in a deep; it is nig jwith him, and he is like a cumberfome bairn greeicg in the night for a drink, and crying, Pfalm ii,\VA COM MUNION SERMON. 17rvvho will fhew us any good thing? and Satan is‘ (ready at his elbow with his dilhhil of the dirty mi-fy matters of lull to the world, and he drinks whileie fwears and fynes breath, and tynes a’ light anddefire of Chrift, the fountain of the water of life,John vii. 37. It is true this fountain of life is faidto proceed out of the throne of God, and fiomthe Lamb: but it is all one . for the If reams ofthe water of life proceed from the fountain Cbrilt.How then is the water Chril! ? Chrifl as man dy¬ing and lending out his heart’s blood for quenchingl>f the thirl! of luch poor finners as find the fire,)f hell at the ftomach of thdr foul burning themtp with the fne of the wrath of God for fin ; thiss the reaibn why he is called the fountain of therater of life.- As, (1. Becaule a man burnt with third, nothing canuench him, no, net a world gold is lo good: s a drink of pure, cold, clem fountain-water. !n.'word, afoul weakened undei fin, findeth nothinga the world fatisfaefory to the foul's appetite, butl» Chrifi. Tell me, art thou a thirfiy (inner after(thrift? thy foul is dcad-fick while thou get him.j;ay a man down on a loft bed, dry the Iweat offjica, give him. a cold refrelhing drink. Now, yeL.nunot fpeak fuch a word to a loul-burften-thingihder fin, as to lay it upon a crucified Chrift : Ojat is a fioft bed; his (inful foul being fhetched:aon the open, warm, ftowing blood and woundsChrift:: O that is a ibft bed. O but a p.itt ofini ill’s blood is a refrefhing, cooling drink to him.a Have of hell to know that he is made a free:ir of heav 0, O that is fweet; hence it is, that|b(e that are wakened v/ith the furies of hell,: mvbeit they know not yet what Chrift is to them ;■j : this world cannot calm their confcience, be-11 caufei8CHRIS T’S NAPKIN,caufc for men that are fbul-fick and fin-fick, thereis no phyfic but one, orrly a drink of the wdi oflife, avid becaufe they ken not the gait to this wellof life, they loup out of this life out of deipairinto the fire of hell, thro’ the maduefs of an awak¬ened conick nee. For a thirfiy-fick-fonl finds two|things in Chrift, never to be found in all theworld, nor any thing tile. i. Chfift takes othe hardhefs of fin: none has power to do this but,|he ; ah the pardons of fin are in Chrift’s keeping,and of Chrui’s making ; it is his office to forgive/in. 2. Be (ides, they find in him ?.n influence, andabundance of happinels in him ; io as, what theyfought before in the creature, they find no whereeb'e but in him; then (peak to them of^gold, it inothing to Chrift; fpeak of lands and lerdffiipthey are nothing to a Saviour, and fuch a Saviouhas and is another name to a finner that is awakebed.Again, the text call? him, The water ef life. Wefee here, there is fome water that is rotten and ill*itailed; will a thirliy man drink of it? he /hallnot be the better; but the wholeionaeil water is]the running ipring; !o all that finners c..n gdjjbefide Chrill is Handing water. Let them drink]in gold, and kingdom, and lands, they (hall nejiver be io i tisfying to a fick-foul as he fliail beand they who hoc drunk in the!e, at death woulcj]-.be conten to fpue th-. rn ont again, they ly fo heatvy up n thtir flomach ; bet Chrill is the cooling}wholefome fjpring, the well of ware’-, fpringing ujto eternal life. Now, to make our ufe of thisifeeing Chrift is fuch a living well of water, hovsiis it in the gdfptl that there are fo many witherei |dried fouls ? 1 anfwvr, for God’s part, iudeed Gch .has not put an iron-lock upon the well of life. Bu |,Chrif!9A COMMUNION S E R M O N. 19Thrift by his word and facrament opens the well irtthe raidft of us, and for levenfy years and more inthi- kiigdbhi the well has been open. Chrift andhis ibdlengers have been crying to dry fouls; but. now for ought we fee he will clofe the well again;1 for he has been letting out the means of life, andi opening his booth-doors to give it freely, even tofnch as will take it, but he gets no fait -, thereforei he muff put up his wafes and go away, for men arenot thirfiy for his waters; bur one thirfts for court; and honour; another for luff and money; a thirdi luffs after fiuful pieafures. 1. There be few itom-■ achs gaping for Chrift. 2. I hey ha’c nor a veili fel to call down into the well and take up ihe wa-'ter : this is a fruitlels generation. Oh ! we lotheChrift, and Chrift lathes us. We need (peak no. i hiore of the call of the \v >rd ; r.U the-land, court,i, king, noblemen and kirkmen, have fpiled the wa¬ters, by delpifing the mercy, and contemning theill gofpel; and in very dee'd when we calf in clay andi mud in Chritl’s well, and mix ids dodtrine withit the poiibri of the whore’s well of Rome. We1! think we would hive iomethiog to give to Chrift1:1 for the water of life, fome of our own righteouflftccfs, feme of our worthinefs; but that is plaifter*ired humility, watered copper; and in doing fo welitrefufe grace, and make grace to be no more grace;for, if it be given for any worth in us, it is no morei,grocer and therefore, let men here tee then, thatii'lhe kiBgdom of grace is a good cheap world, whereirithe beft things are gotten for nothing; and thcre-tdfote, I think, in this dear world, wherein ail thingsogo for nothing; when court cofts expences, landsstare dear, and gold is not gotten for nought, andillaws are dearer than ever they were ; yea, paperijiand ink are now dearer than ever ; yea, paper andink20C H R I S T’S N A P K I N,ink are aow dearer than jewels. No, fays thePope, not a drop till ye tell out money ; thatbloody heart would fell the water of Rome for goldjas meikle money, as meikle grace and forgivecefs;but Chrift and his world care no more for moneythan before.2. There are excellent promifes made to over-comers ; to him that taketh heaven with rtroke offwcrd and blood ; for heavti. is a befieged city orcaftje; armies of Irn with ail their armour, and thedeceiving and malicious world; the world has Eve’sapple in the one hand, and fire.and fword in theother, and the devil is the captain of the army ;now, here is a price fet, and an offer made to himthat overcometh, to him that will mount up byfaith and hope, and leap up in Chrirt’s chariot, andbetide him life, betide him death, he will gothrough ; but, they are cowards that take a back-firie and let rhe devil coup them in a gutter. Butyet, to lead men on, here is a promile of twothings;Firrt, He (hall inherit all things •, then ye fee,that that Chrirtian’s captain is a man of fair rent,i Cor. iii. 21, ‘ For all things are yours, whetherPaul, or A polios, or Cephas, or the world, or life,or death j things prejent, or things to come,’ and tolet us lee he bides by the thing he has (aid, he laysagain, ‘ all things are yours ye fee then, cne hasa kingdom, as Alia, but wants health, and is lameof his feet, he has not all things. Another hasftiength of body above any living, yet had manytroubles, and wanted his eyes as Samion, andtherefore had not all things. O the bufinefs Adam’sfons are at for inheritance: here a male-line, therea la'rrdfhip, that they call their ail things. I thickthis is a greedy flile and proud-like iordfhip crlairdfhipA COMMUNION SERMON, u9••'■vlairdfhip, that they call their ail things: yet gree¬dy Adam’s Ions have more greedinefs here thanwit. They run all upon their lordfhip, that theycall the Lord (hip of many things, Luke x. ‘ Mar-i tha, Martha, thou art troubled about manv things;'’worldings, ye are troubled about many things,I to be called my lord ot many things. But we lhall| fee if the text be true, I am Alpha and Omega;I then, firft, the apoftle here puts in death. Deathi is the wages of fin ; I think death an ill mailing,better want it out of the charter. How then havethey all things ? I anfwer,Death is alfo a part of the lordlhip this way;. becaufe it is my lord of all things, and a coachto glory ; Chrift himfeif being the coachman, andidriving the horfes; deafh is the fervant; as the(wind ferveth to bring the feamen home, fo deathTerveth him that hath the lordfhip. Death isChrift’sferry-boat to carry us home; for, in Chrtftwe fet our foot on death’s neck. It is a bridgeb’er the river of hell that we walk on to heaven,and it is ours; the Chrithan is advanced in Chrifi’scourt, and gets the new ftile to be my lord of allthings, the prince of all things, the prince, theduke of all things. Yet I lhall get you a lordfhipoeneath them all; but much fought for: the lord-ibip of vanity or nothing, Prov. xxiii. y. wilt thoujet thine eyes on that which is nought? for, verily,inches have wings ; he that is rich hath nought.• Secondly, If he inherit all things, then theIvhole world is his, and fo he wanteth nothing.> A third queftion, How is it then that the faintsare hungry and poor ? An/iver, This promile iso taken from them. 2 Sam. Hi 14. Pfalm Ixxxix., 5. * I will fet his one hand on the lea, and hisjiright hand on the river.’ Then fee how broad22CHRIS T’S N A P K I N,f IChrift’s rwo arms are. His one hand upon all thefea, and his other hand upon the river, and thatpromife is made to Chrift as principal cautioner ofthe covenant. For, it is laid, vcr'e 26. ‘ He (halllay unto me, thou art ray Father, and my God, andthe rock of my ialvation,’ verle 27. ‘ Alfo, i willmake him my firft-born, higher than the kings ofjthe earth.’—Which is expounded of Chrifl, Hebi. 5. Rev. x. 2. ‘ He has his righufoot on thefea, and his left-foot on the land.’ Put thefe twpitogether, and lee how wide his arms and legsand feet are, they go over the whole world as his1inheritance which he wan to bimlelf, and his heirafter him, with his blood. Now Chrifl: got land-not to himfelf: what needs he land to give hif ;blood for day? but he wan it to us, and he tooinfeftment in the earth in the name of his friendsAnd now it is true, they are not pofleflors of althings; b&t fecoadly, for people’s wants, ye fetheir intereft is in and over all things; yet theintutor lets them go with a toom purle: he know,ajthe heir is a young one, and cannot keep gold-* •and, therefore, he gives them food and raiment fothe prefent neceflity; but keeps the lordfhip fo|the pretent. Our tutor Chrift is made of God outtutor, our purfe-mafter: it is all one whether wshave it in our cheft-neuk, or if it be in Chrifl’.purfe to keep it while we need it, providing wtwant not.Thirdly, A third queftion, and a third dcubis, at leaft, feeing they are under fo many troubles;in this life, and have no eafe, they have not althings: I anfwer. Yet I muftdefend it, and fayif they have the inheritance, that they have althings, becaufe the fweet of the comfort and trouibles are theirs.I, .A C O M M U N T O N S E R M O N. 23A fourth queftioa or objeftion, They have notheaven and glory, at leaft in this life, and there¬fore, they arc not inheritors of all things ? 1 an-fwer. The promife is not fulfilled in this life:Let, when a naan has friorn a ih>uk or two of corn,ve fay he has gotten harvefi: and new corn. So:he believer gets joy, hope, faith, allurance of hea-ren, and the firft fruits of the fpirir, are new corn.Jo, in the beginning, he gets all things. 2. HavingSod and Chrift, they have all things, for ye feehe great (hip traileth the cock-boat after her; fohe great Chrift bringe:h all things after him at his. lack; fo I ay, having Chrift they have all things:uey have the Father and the Spirit, the world, lifeid death. Amen.\he triumphal feajl for Oh riff s victory over Jtntand death, and hell.i', /^lOME, let us lift our voices high,I High as our joys arife,I And join the fongs above the (ky,Where pleafure never dies.Jefus, the God, that fought and bled,And conquer’d when he fell;That rofe, and at his chariot-wheelsDragg’d all the pow’rs of hell.jefus, the God invites us here.To this triumphal feaft,And brings immortal bleflings downFor each redeemed gueft.iiijl'he Lord ! how glorious is his face!1 How kind his fmiles appear !oh ! what melting words he faysTo ev’ry humble ear!5 For( 24 )5 For you, the children of my love.It was for you I dy’d ;Behold my hands, behold my feet.And look into my fide.6 Thefe are the wounds for yon I boreThe tokens of my pains,When I came down to free your foulsFrom mifery ands:haias.7 Juftice ualheath’d its fiery fword,And plung’d it in my heart,Infinite pangs for you I bore,And moft tormenting fmart.8 When hell and all its ipiteful pow’rsStood dreadful in my way,To refcue thole dear lives of yours,I gave my own away.p But, while I bled, and groan’d, and dy’dI ruin’d Satan’s throne;High on my crofs I hung, and fpy’dThe monfter tumbling down.f io Now you mull triumph at my feafl.And tafte my flefh, my blood.And live eternal ages blels’d;For ’tis immortal food.11 Viftorious God, what can we payFor favours fo divine ?We would devote our hearts awayTo be for dver thine.12 We give thee, Lord, our higheft pfaife;The tribute of our tongues jBut themes fo infinite as theleExceed our noblefl fongs. ' - -FINIS.,~n f « —1 ■ ■, Cliifgow, Printed by J. U M. KobVtfon, Salt market,t a* *