THEB; * * ff .PLEASANT ARTorMONEY CATCHING,ANDllie Way to Thrive,iBYTurning a Penny to Advantage :WITHA New Method of RegulatingDaily Expences.THEPLEASANT ARTOFMONEY CATCHING.—KSSgcSsa-w HEN connnierce and traffic was first begaa Iin the world and men came to trade one witkanothei, there was no use for money, nor needof it; for men bartered their sroods. in exchangewith each other; and as in the infancy of theworld, some were tillers of the ground and other* iwere Keepers of sheep; the one gave the other icorn, and took of their s.leep in exchange for it.:And this sort of trading is now generally in use iin our foreign Plantations to supply the want ofmoney. But in process of time, as trading in¬creased, so did luxury begin to abound ; and as cluxury abounded, so mens want’s grew greater,which begat a necessity cfsome other way of com¬merce, and this was money ; which is of such an- ttiquity. that Josephus tell us, that Cain (the soa »•f Ademv and the first born of men) was very tgreedy in gathering money together: though in3i *»f what metal that money was made, and whetherit was coined or not, he is silentHerodotus writeth. that the first that coinedi silver and gold, to buy and sell with, were the1 Lydians. For silver and gold being the most, precious of metals, was so much valued, that’ ver any man wanted, might be purchased mer indeed tells us, that before the sir’ge ofif Troy men used to change or barter ooecommo-i dity for another. But it is undeniable, that moneyhi was in use long before that time ; for when Abra-i ham purchased the field of Machpeiah, and the>i: field in which it was, for aburving plane for In'si family, he gavefour hundred shekels of silver for it;which the sacred text tells us, was current moneywith the merchant; and that was about the year©f the world 2088, which was near 700 yearsbefore the destruction of Troy. But though themoney was current with the merchant, lquestion whether it was coined or not; for it ra-i;ther appears; that it received its value from itsI weight than from any stamp that was upon it:The weight ofa shekel beinga quarter nfan ounce,i and the true value of that 15 pence of our money,j Abraham paid 251 .English money, for that bury-n ing place.We read likewise of pieces of silver, or silver?ings, before this, which was currnt money amongIthe nation at that day : for Abimeleeh, king ofGerar, having taking Abraham’s wife from him,upon a supposition thatshe was his sister; when hecame to understand the truth of the matter, notonly restored his wite to him again, but also gavehim a thousand pieces of silver, or silver lings; thevalue of which thousand pieces (each piece being4worth 2s. 6d.) came to 1251 which at that day wa*a noble present for a kinjr to give.But besides shekels and silverlings. there weretalents also, the weight of which was 750 ounces.A talent of silver contained the value of 1871. 10s.Of each of these coins there is frequent mentionin the Holy Scriptures of the Old Testament.In the New Testament. Our Saviour, commandedPeter to take up the iish that first came to hand,and when he had opened its mouth, he should findtherein a piece of money which ho was to takeand °dve the tax-gatherers for his Master andhimself: which piece of money was called a Stator,which consisted of half an ounce of silver, the va¬lue of which was 2 shillings. And when the Jewscame to ensnare our Saviour, about the lawfulnessof paying tribute to Caesar, he desired him to shewthe tribute-money, and they shewed him a Penny,of value 7d-ha!fperny; and that this money wascoined and stamped, appears by our Saviour’s ask¬ing them, whose image and superscription wasupon it ? To which they answered, Caesar,But 1 need uot quote Scripture to prove thatthe Jews and Homans used to coin money, theimage and superscription given a value to it, andpromoting the currency of it; for silver was coineaia Rome, in the year of the world 3672, whichwas about 300 year.-, before the Christian n-ra.History tells us, that silver was first cf all coinedin the Isle Engina. and that in Rome- it was stamp¬ed with the impression of a chariot and horses.And Janus caused brass to be coined with a faceon the one side, and a ship on the other, in me¬mory of Siturnus, who arrived there in a ship.Servius Tustus. a king of the Romans, first coinedbrass with the image of a sheep and an ox. And' .5in some places leather cut into pieces, has had thestamp of authority put upon it, and so it was madeto pass for money. And in New England, theIndians have money which they call Wampom-pege, which is of two sorts, one white, which thermake of the stem or stock of the Periwinkle, whichtheg call Meteauhockt, when all the shell is brokenoff: and of this sort six of theirsmall beads, (whichthey make with holes to string the bracelets) arecurrent with the English for a penny. The othersort is black, inclined to blue, which is made ofthe shell of a fish, which they call Pcquanhock ;and of this sort, three m ikes an English penny.They who live upon the sea side generally makeof it, and as many make as will, none being deniedthe liberty of making it. This coin or money theIndians set such a vame npon, that they bringdown all sorts of furs which they take in thecountry, and sell to the Indians and English too,for this Indian money; and the currency of itamong them, makes them look on it as a goodequivalent for what commodities they have to sell.Both the English, Dutch, and French treading tothe Indians with it, above six hundred miles northand south from England.Which is sufficient to shew, that the use ofmoney is very ancient, and is made use of by allnations, in trading with each other; and was firstinvented as a medium in trade, and an equivalentto all sorts of commodities.6The Misery of those that want Money,and are in Debt, §c.THERE is ro wise man that will covet moneyfor itstlf. but for the use that is to be mrde of it;for money itself cannot satisfy ; and so we aretold hy the wisest of men. Eccles. v. 10. • He thatloveth silver shall not be satofied with silver;nor lie that loveth abundance with increase.”—[n a time of (amine, or in a beseiged city, a tnaamay have money enough by him, and yet maywant a piece of bread. Money therefore is prizednot for itself, but for its use; because, as Solomoaalso says, ‘ Money answers all things.” Andaeeing without money a man can have nothing,they must be very miserable that re without it.Charity, in this last and iron age of the world,is grown so cold, that there is scarce any thing tobe got upon that account. If you are cold, charitywill not warm you; neither, if j ou are hungry,will it fill your belly; but if you have money,you may do both.If you have money, you may become one ofthe Livery-men of London an Assistant, a War¬den, or a Master of a Company ; but if you wantmoney you wi.l never arrive to the honour of abeadle ; for even for such an inferior employmentyou must make friends, and that cannot be donewithout bribes, nor can you bribe without money.If you have money, you may be an honest manand a good man; Out if you want money, youmust be a knave by consequence.Enquire of a rich min among bis neighbours,what he is. meaning only whether lie bo a sub-atantial man, and one that is responsible; and,ithey will presently tell you, *'he*s a veryai an, I’ll assure youthough at the some tinrs,with respect to his morals, he is a# profligatea fellow as any in the whole ptrish. an d one thatInres by oppressing his neighbours, and doing allmanner of injustice ; his money making amendsfar all his enormities.1 knew a certain tradesman in London, thathad tin uncle, a rich covetous fellow, tint wasworth mmy a thousand; this poor man addressedhimself to his uncle, to give him a 1001. to sethim up; but l,e knew the worth of money betterthan to part with it, before death forced it fromhim, and told him plainly, he would give him no¬thing while he lived but itmightbehe would icivehimsomething when hedied. especially if he foundhim industrious, and that he put himself in a wayto live. The poor man had but little money,and less credit, and how to put himself in a wayto live he knew not, his trade being none of thebest for journeymen. However, picking up alittle credit at one place, and a little at another,be addressedhimself to the compmy he was free of,and would fain have borrowed 50 . of them ; buttruly they would not lend it him, but upon suchsecurity as hecould not procure; in this extremityhaving put nimself into a shop he goes again tohis uncle, to desire him to lend nim a little money,telling him he had set up in trade, and was gotinto a shop, but wanted money to carry on hisbusiness, and desired hirn to lend him a little.His uncle finding he was getting into a way. outof his generosity lends him 20. but makeshim give him a bond to pay him again in a year’stime. The poor man had almost as good beenwithout his money, as to have been under such8an obligation ; but he was resolved to keep toucliwith him, though he lived so poorly ali the whilethat he was the scorn of his neighbours and fel¬low tradesmen, who looked upon him as a poorand consequently a pitiful fellow; but for all that,though with much ado he had the good fortuneto pay back his uncle the 201. within the timelimited: which his uncle took so well, that hetoldhim, Sincehetook such care to keep his word,hb would remember him another time. And sohe did; for having neither wife nor child, whenhe died, he divided his estate amongst his relations,»and left this poor kinsman of hi?, thirty thousandpounds in re; dy money, and 15001. per annum.And now this poor man, whose poverty made himthe scorn ofiiis neighbours and, acquaintances be¬fore, became a very‘goad man all on a sudden,insomuch that the city took notice of him, andchose him sheriff the very next year; and thecompany that before refused to lend him 50hnow chose him their master, and were all bishumble servants ; and he was applauded and criedup by every one. litre was now a mighty change,and yet the man was the same still; it was moneyonly made the difFeience. Judge therefore whe¬ther want of money be not an extraordinary mis¬ery. and a great unhappiness.This puts me in mind of a story I have heardrelated of Jocelin Percy, Esq , brother to theEarl of Northumberland, who going bya butcher’*shop near Cow-Cross affronted his dog, whothereupon fell a-barking at him, and the Esqu'redrew his sword and run him through. Thebutcher, v ho was troubled for the loss of his dog,charged a constable with the Esquire, who carriedhim before a Justice that knew him not: the9l,Justice asked him why he killed the butcher’s dog?IFhe Esquire answered him very carelessly. Becauser.he dog run at him. Run at \ ou. says Mr. Justice !iiow did he run at you ? To which Percy (beingi comical sort of a man) replied, He run at me thusBough, wough wough ! ! ! and therewith takingU little run upon the Justice, threw fom and hischair down together! When Mr. Justice looked(jspon as such affront to Ids Worship, that nothingwould atone for but committing !rim to Nswgate,(aggravating the crime of killing the butcher’s dog,lilelling him, His dog was his servant and that fornought he knew, himself or some of his gang, de¬signed to rob his shop ; but he would make an ex-lample of him. Percy seemed very little concerned:lat what tffe Justice said, which provoked him theitmore; and therefore he called the clerk to make|his minimus, who asking him what his name was,the said Jocelin. What besides Jocelin ? said thefClerk. Percy said he. Of what place ? repliedthe Clerk. Of Northumberland-house, nearCharing-Cross, said he. The Justice hearing this,and knowing there was a very comical gentlemanof that name, who w'as brother to tire Earl ofNorthumberland, then a great favorite with hisMajesty, changed his tone at once and asked himif he was brother to the Earl ? On being answeredin the affirmative, he addressed himself to thebutcher in an angry tore, telling him, he wouldexamine into the affair, ami that he would learnhim better than let his dog loose to molest gentle¬men as they walked the street, and that he wouldhave him bound over to the peace at the Quarter-Sessions for his future behaviour, Which bewould have done, and perhaps more, had notPercy interfered in his behall. At this alteration10thf: poor butcher was terrified. The Justice thenaddressed himself to the Esquire, and begeed hispardon for using himin such a manner, imputingitto ids not knowing his quality. The Esquire,with a smiie; replied, that he must also beg hispardon for throwing him and his chair over.The Justice answered, there was no offence.I'nus we may see the misery of wanting money, iThe butcher could certainly have punished Percyfor killing Ids dog in sucli an unprovoked manner,and would have obtained it, had not the Justicediscovered Percy’s family, and let justice winkrather than offend the brother of a favorite othis Majesty’s. The poor dutcher must not onlycontent himself with the I ^1 1speaking, in every state of ute; it a man be everso virtuous and of the best ptinciples. if iie wantthat pi incipie of principles money, he wants everything, ami is looked upon as a mean pitiful fellow;on tire contrary, if a man be possessed of that,he h is every thing, though otherwise of the mostconsummate ignorance debauched life, and insig-nifi ant conversation.I confess, if we look backward into the betterand wiser ages of the world, virtue tho’ clothedin rags was more esteemed than the trappings ofthe gold ass ; it is in these last and worst ofdays, that vice has got such an ascendant in theworld as to make men think all that are poorare miser.ible ; for in the primitive times, povertywas the b ulge of religion and piety : and well itmight for nor many great, nor many noble wereca.led ; aau the study of wisdom, and contempt ofthe world was then in esteem among the wisestphilosophers in the earliest ages. Hut as Ovidglad he escaped so well.The times are chang’d, and even weSeem changed with the times to be,ISo that in these times, considering the misery ofwanting money is so great we may say with thewise man, “ My son, is better to die than tobe poor.” Which saying was perhaps the occ.asionef'an old miser’s mistake, who bid his son observei iwhat Solomon said, ‘ Always keep a penny inyour pocket” But his son answered again, Hedid not remember that Solomon said any suchthing. The miser replied, ‘ Then Solomon was.1 not so wise as I took him to be.”Indeed money is now become the worldly man’sI God, and the Cdrd which thedevilturns uptriumphM to win the game; for it gives birth, breeding,h: beauty, honour, and credit; an i makes the posses-h sors tlrink themselves wise, tho’ their very think-:ii ing so, declares them tools. But because moneyijl answers alt things, and is in such vogue with theh world, therefore many are so willing to purchase itI though with the loss of soul and body.But the want of money does not only cause menIp to be condemned end rediculed, but it also putsis men upon taken wicked and unlawful courses to| obtain it: which made one sayO wretched poverty! a tool thou’rt made,To every evd act and wicked trade.For it wre»teth and maketh crooked the best na¬tures ; which aretorced. by their necessities, to dothose things which they trlush to think of, whdethey are doing them : such as borrowing, and notbeing able to p ty ; to speak untruths, to covei andt disguise their poverty; to deceive, and sometimesto cheat their nearest relations. And all becausewhen they are in want, they are scorned, anddespised, aud perhaps disowned by them.12Bnt before I leave this subject, of shewing themisery of wanting money, it is necessary l shouldsay something of the misery of borrowing money,or running in debt, which is a consequent ofwanting money ; for he tnat does not want, hasno occasion to hot row", and is, in that respecthappy ; for being out of debt, he is out of danger,and therefore needs not seek for by-ways, to avoidhis creditors, but can walk in the open streetswithout fear, and whet his knife even at the gatesof the prison.But on the contrary, he that borrow's money,has made himself such a slave to his cred tors, thathe dares hardly say his head is his own, and isafraid that every one he meets is a serjeant or abailiff, that intends to captivate his outward taber¬nacle : like the man that in the night-time, havinghis coat catched by a nail, and so stopped, he pre¬sently cried out, “ At whose suit ?” Supposing itwas a serjeant that had attested him.The causes of Men's wanting Money.k^jINCE money is a thing so necessary and souseful, and the want of a competency of it, makesa man so very miserable, rendering him liable toall the scorn and contempt that an ill-naturedworld can throw upon him; it seems strange somany should want it, especially those that knowthe worth of it. And therefore it may be worthour enquiring into the causes fro n whence thiswant proceeds : l mean tiie common and ordinarycauses ; for there are some causes that are extra-13ildinary, such as all our wit and prudence canither foresee nor avoid. Such was that extra-ildinray and surprising storm in November 1703,Hereby many thousands were undone, as to theirlrates, be.sides the many lives that were lost: andi ich also was the dreadful fire in London wherebyme that Dad great estates the one week hadiarce breed to eat thenext: and in the time of war(any are unavoidable losers. But these must not;i|: reckoned the common and ordinary ways thatjj|ike and keep men poor. We know indeed,jliat by the divine providence, in the body of aommon-weaith there must be both poor and rich,/tn as an human body cannot subsist without|>ands and feet to labour, and walk about to pro-Id for the other members; the rich being thejelly, which devour all, yet do no part of thepork: but the cause of every man's poverty istot one and the same ; some are poor by conditiosIpnd content with their calling, and neither seeklor can work themselves into belter condition ;let (rod raiseth up, as by a miracle, the childreni.md posterity of these, oftemimes, to possess thepost eminent places either in church or commonfyeaUh, as to become Archbishops, Bishops, JudgesjConcmanders-geueral in the field, Secretaries of»tate. Statesmen, and the like : so tl at it proveth[jiot always true.which the poet say,If poor thou art, then poor thou shall remain ;Rich men alone do now rich gifts obtain.>f this condition are the greatest number in everykingdom : others there are, who have possessed'teat estates, but those estates have not thrivennr continued, being gotten by oppession, deceit,usury, and the like, which commonly Igsteth nott« the third generation, according to the poet, iIt seldom is the erandchilo’s lot,To be the heir of goods not justly got.Others come to want and misery, by spendtnjjtheir fair estates in ways of vicious living, as o» .drink and women; for Bacchus and Venus artinseparable companions ; and i.e that is familiar,with the one, is never a stranger to the other.In same way manner and end.Both wine and women (.0 offend.Some again live in perpetual want, being natu¬rally wholly given to idleness: These are thedrones of a esmmon-wealih, who deserve not t»live. “ He that laboureih not. should not cat.—Labour night and day. rather than be burthen-some,” saith the apostle Paul : both country andcity swarm with this kind of people ; “ 1 he oili-gent hand, saith Solomon, shall make rich : outthe sluggard shall have a scarcity of bread.”I remember, when I was in the Low Countries,there were three soldiers, a Dutch-man, a Scot,and an Englishman who. for their misdemeanors.-lwere condemned to be hanged ; yet their liveswere begged by three several men one a btick-layer, that he might help him to make bricks, andcarry them to the wails ; the other was a biewetof Delft, who begged his man to fetch water,and do ether work in the brew i.ou^e : and thethird by a gardner, to help him to work in anddress a hop garden. The first two accepted their ;offers thankfully; but the last, the Englishman,told his Master in plain terms, his friends had .■ever brought him up to gather hops ; and there- "Ifore desired rather to be hanged.15lOthers having had great estate? left unto themW their friends, and who never knew the paiad eare in getting ofthem, haveas one saiti truly,Hoped through them in a very short time :jese are such as Solomon speaketh of, whoijving riches, have no hearts, or rather the wit,i use them.” These men are most aptly com-ired to the willow-tree, because the palms ofe willow-tree are no sooner ripe, but blown »-jiy with the wind.I -einember to have heard of a wealthv citizc*i London, in Queen Elizabeth’s time, who leftSiis son a great sum of money, who imagined hei|ould never be able to spend it; would usuallylilake ducks and drakes in the Thames with shil-vjtigs, as boys were wont to do with tile sheard*jlid oyster shells: and in the end came to suchiittreme want, that he was under the necessity of'Drrowing sixpence, having many times more sliceslian feet, and sometimes more feet than shoes, asne beggar said in the comedy,il Money also there are, who having been borni3> a good estate, have quite undone themselves bycarriage, and that after a twofold manner: first>!;y matching themselves without advice of parentslir friends, in heat of youth, unto proud, foolish,l( nd light women, that one would better live ont mall allowance at a distance, than have a fulltneal at home where he is always trouble with' er never ceasing tongue. A nd this is the reasonIo many husbands travtl beyond seas ; or at homejo irom town to town, or from tavern to taverr,o look for company ! and in a word, to spend anyhing, to live any where, save at home in their»wn houses, where they are sure to hear nothing)jit the brawlings of a scolding woman.16DIRECTIONSHow persons may supply themselves withMoney at all times.NA ^ OW, if you would ask me, what course heshould take, or what he should do that vrantethmoney ? Let him first bethink himself to whatprofession or trade he hath been foi merly broughtup to. If of the inferior middle sort of trades¬men or artificers, (for thoscrare chiefly concernedin this unhappiness) let sueli,First, be very diligent and industrious in theirrespective trades and callings, and not be slothfulin business.Secondly, Let him take heed of idleness, andof all vain and idle companions, that loiter up anddown and squander away tiieir time as if it wereof no value, though it is the most pr ecious thingin the world, there being nothing in the worldthat is a more certain indication ol rein and de¬struction, than the wasting and misitnproving ol jour time. \nd yet this is done by those thatwould take it ill to be charged therewitli: as forinstance. How many are there that spend a great |deal of their time in Coffee-houses and Weekly-Clubs ! where, tho’ but iittle money is pretendedto be spent, yet a great deal of piecious time issquandered away and tost! which many that fre¬quent these place's never think of! but measuretiieir expences only by what goes out of theirpockets, not considering what they might havegained in that time by their labour, and what theymight have saved by keeping in their shops.17Let us therefore reckon, when a tradesman goeso the Coffee-house or Ale-house to take a morn¬ing-draught, (let it be of what liquor he wills),<vhile he is spending his tw opence, smnaking and((talking, he loses at least an hour of his time :und in the evening he goes to his two-penny club,(and there tarries from six till ten. Now, it musthe a very poor trade, if in that time he could notnave earned a shilling. And if he keeps servants,I the want of his presence at homo may have oc¬casioned his losing as much ashecouhl havegairedhiyaself. bo thit his spending a groat morning■ and night, (that is two pence each time) cannctibe accounted less than the loss sf 2s. 8d. a-day,which comes to Ms. a-week, and flhl. 10s. a-year,I Which sum, if saved, until his oldest son arrivedat 21. years of ego, and so fit for marriage and t«l|? set up in trade, would have amounted to 7601 10s.1 They who would live so as not to want money,!|:j must avoid all such icl- and needless exprnces,| end urneeessery loss of time.But if the person complaining < f the want ofmoney, hrs been brought up to no trade, then 1fthim consider to vhat kiml of life his genius ornaturai di- p. siiion doss most of all incline h;m.If lie e nnot find employment in his own countryto suit his genius (which can scarcely besupposedin a country such as Great Britain, where arts aml_science are can ied to the greatest perfection,-andwhere a person of ary genius, or of little genius,may find employment) let him seek his fortuneI abroad. He m >y at once satisfy his ciui 'sitr,supjrly his necessity .and serve his country, bfgoing into the army or in vy, and thereby havean opportunity of doing brave actions in the ser¬vice of his country abroad, and there he may118Mine to edvantage both his fortune and family.-!If he inclines not the employment of the army r■avy, he may find something to suit him in oiPlantations in the East and West Indies, and : -America, in all which places many a man hatdone well, who could do nothing at home. Thtyou shall find great contentment toyourconsciencto be in action, which God commands us all to b»The times in no age was so hard, as to denindustry and ingenuity a livelyhood: and, inword, rather to be in misery for want of moneylot a man undertake any vocation and labour, awNever think the labour coarseThat puts a penny in his purse.The want of money is a great torment, ancoften puts men on unlawful shifts to procure it•hetefore let every one who has got money, bt•areful to know’ its worth ; for since we are bor»|we must live, and it is hard to live upon a smalij•hare of it. And to conclude this chapter, let u*jbealways careful toget. and cautious in spending!money ; and when you have it. know how to keep]and how to use it, when there is occasion;for money in your pocket is the best companion-As one observed, “be a good husband, and tho«;wilt soon get a penny to spend a penny to lend,and a penny for thy (riend.” For i would have■one to be such misers as to gain money only t#keep, and not make use of it; for to such, moneyis the greatest curse, of which the world has beenfurnished with many instances.Gain a penny, spend a penny,(Says the frugal man;)But if you spend before you gain,You’!! ne’er be merry then.19DIRECTIONSHow to turn a Penny to advantage.ff; -first direction shall be that all such persoasdesign to thrive in the world, should alwayse care not to spend a penny idly; for that theyreby may purchase a square yard (or 3 feet)good land. This, how improbable soever itIty seem, is an undoubted truth, as will appearthe foilowing demonstration.1. Sixteen feet and a half, make one rood.2. Forty such roods in length (that is 600 feet)d four such roods in breadth, (that is 66 feet)lakes an acre of land.3. Now, multiply 660 feet, (the length of anre) by 66 feet, (the breadth of an acre) and theoduct will be 4-3,560 square feet, and so manyo acre cotains.4. I and that will let at 20s an acre, per annum,acre of which, if sold as 20 years purchase,ay be bought for 201, that is for 4800 pence.5. Now, if you divide 43 560, (the number otence for which an acre may be purchased,) the(uotions or product thereof is 9, and 360 remain-ling : which shews that every penny does purchaseaine square feet (that is. three feet long, and three'■jroad) of such land, ana somewhat above, which1 s what was to be demonstrated ; and consequent¬ly it follows, taat for every two shillings, you maypurchase 216squarefeet; that is a piece of groundiof 18 feet long, and 12 feet broad, which islenough tobuikl a little house upon, or make a littleigarden, which being well planted, the fruit there-ef may every year make a man blush, to thinllshould spend the smallest sum unnecessarily,,immoderate eating, drinking, cloathing, fat tor pocket expences. which perhaps impairshealth besides, and exposes him to the repra '>and redicule of his neighbours, when he hatfair a way to turn those idle-spent pence t<>own advantage. But if a man has not a mine »purchase land with his penny, he may turn t-several other ways to still greater advantage,trade and commerce.But there is more required in the art of thrivand turning the penny to advantage, than nrmen imagine: it is true, diligence is good, aindustry is good, and frugality is good; butman can never thrive as he should do. withehe looks higher than all this. 1 remember I hj[somewhere read the following verses :Snore not, ror spend too much, be this thy cat1Spare hut to spend, and only spend to spare ;aWho spends too much, may want, and socomplaiPost he Spends best, that spares to spend again.Plow, sow, and reap,*and then to Heaven calkThat its kind blessing may on your labour falls' fis vain to look for profit from what’s giv’n,Unless you go t the blesse d dew from heav’n.And indeed, unless we ore under the influencerd'a blessing from heaven, all our own endeavour:how strenuous soever they may be, will revom-ike us thrive: for as the royal Plaimist excellently observes, “ Except the Lord build tbhouse they labour in vain that build it. Exrepth.e Lord keep the city, the watclima r walketh bitin vain." So it is in this case, except the Lorigive a blessing, our endeavours will be in vain.21ANew Method for ordering Expences.I_ T is very hard for an open and easy natnreMj keep within the conap’.ss of his fortune ; eitheriname to be observed behind others, or else a vain-: lor'ous itching to out do them leaks away till•be vessel be low or empty ; so that nothing in-olves a man in more unhappiness than a heedlesstting go, in an imprudence of ncispending ; for itIters the very frame and temper of the mind.(V-hen wants come, he"that was profuse before,asily grows rapacious. It is extreme unhappinesso be thus composed ofextremes, to be impatientnth in plenty and want. And therefore’let everynan, for the ofetter ordering of his expences,tbserve the following rules.1. See that your comings in be more than yourayings out; f^r unless this be minded, a man mayvaste away Ids substance to nothing insensibly,'if your income exceed your expehces but twentyshillings a-year, you are in a thriving condition ;mt if on the contrary your expenccs exceed yourincome, you aie in the highway to ruin.2: Keep an exrct account of what you lay out,ill and v. tat you receive ; for without this, you widi be always in the dark.3. Balance your account at least once everyquarter; and then you will the better see howthe case stands with you, end so may the betterretrench matters, if you find you have exceeded.4. In laying out your money, trust not to yourservants :• for in small matters they may deceiveyou and you be never the wiser: and many suchsmall matters may amount to a great sum.225. In a'l your affairs of moment, look after yotbusiness yourself if you wish them to succeed. /6. Bo always sparing, that you may still ha» ilwherewithal to spend. ’ r7. Never spend presently, in hopes of gainirfor the future: wise merchants, while their goot iare at sea, do not increase their expences on lane .but fearing the worst, secure what they have a.ready in their hands8. Never buy but with ready-money ; and bu iwhere you find thingscheap and good rather thajfor friendship or acquaintance sake ; for they perhaps may take it unkind, if you will not let then .•heat you. For you may get experience, if nothing else by going from one shop to another.9. Be ready to give a good gdvice to all, bube security for none. \nd if a friend or relatioipress y ou to it, refuse it, and rathei, if you ca»ilend him money upon another’s bond.10. Let not thy table exceed the fourth parof thy revenue. And let thy provisions be solid1*nd not far fetched ; fulLi of substance than art: .Be wisely frugal in thy preparation, and freely•heerful in tny entertainment. Too much is va-oity, and enough is a feast.11. If thou wouldst in a little time arrive teworldly preferment, be very industrious in thycalling, be what it will; that which is by sparingsaved, may be with diligence improved. It hathbeen observed, that it is not less gainful to navi¬gate in a small vessel, which makes quick and fre- ,quent returns, that in that which returns, but:seldom, though deeply laden. Therefore Solo¬mon directs the sluggard to go to the bee and ant;,which infirm creatures plainly shew, how much ,,the assiduity ot industrious labour can effect.f23\few serious and necessary Advices tal those that desire to thrive in the world,nd have the blessing oj God with it.I1. ASSURE yourself there can be no honestiriving without the fear of GOD. and the exer-iseol'agood conscience: and therefore, abovetilings, disengage j ourself from that businessd those diversions that stand in conpetition withI at trodly fear, that ought to be a guide to youall your actions.jti 2. Svoid the company of all vicious persons,Whatsoever, as much as you can; for no vice isone and all are infectious : Especially avoid allch persons as are scandalous, either for profes-on or manners, for you run his hazard, andpouse his disreputation; and such as swearers,ophane blasphemers, scoffers, &c.3-. 8e sure not to keep company with drunkardsd busy-bodies, and all such as are apt to talkuch to little purpose; for no man can be pro¬dent of his time, that is not prudent in theoice of his company.4-. Beware of idleness, aud fill up all the emptyaces of your time in useful employments : forice creeps in, when the soul is unemployed, andic body at ease.5. Avoid the filthy sin of whoredom, whickrings the curse of GOD upon men’s bodies andtales: For a whorish woman is a dei.p ditch,:>nd he that is abhorred of the Lord, shall falliBherein.”6. Pray to GOD when you begin any work,kat, by his help, yeu may bring it to a goodonclusion.<24PROVERBSTo be observed by all who wish to thritWHEN richs's increase, the body decreasethFor men prow old before they grow rich.St'end, and be free, but do not waste.Who more than be is worth doth spend,Will be a beggar at the end.Whoso spendeth more than he should,Shall not have to s; e d when he would.The table robs more than the thief.Trade is the mother of money.When the tree is fallen, every man goeth towith his hatchet. Or, when the man’s dowdown with him.For want of a nad the shoe is lost,For want of a shoe the horse is lost,For want of a horse the rider is lost.To him that is willing, ways are not wanting.Tney must hunger in frost, that will not work,in heat.Go not to the physician on every disorder, ,3Nor to the I,aw*’r ok every quarrel,Nor to the tavern always when dry.Patience, time, and money, accommodate all thingiPrayer and provinder hinders no journey.Fear nothing but sin.Fill IS.