THEGODLY MAN’S ARK:■o R,'iCITY OF REFUGE,I NTIM EOF TROUB LE.BY THE REV. Mr. THOMAS BROOKS.PSALM xxxiv. 19.are the afjliciions of the Righteous, but the Lord•will deliver him tut of them all.GLASGOW,I Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, [No. 18.] Saltiriarket,1806.T U EGODLY MAN’S A R K iO R,CITY OF REFUGE,TIME OF TROUBLE.——__*****«-_«  Isaiah xUii. 2.When then pajjelh through the Waters I wilihe with thee; and through the Rivers theyJhall not overflow thee: When thou walkeflthrough the Fite thou Jhalt not be burnt,neither Jhall the flames kindle upon thee.THese words, my beloved friends,are a promife thatGod hath madeto his church and people, after manyfore and grievous afflictions that hehad brought upon them, by reafon o*their finning and rebellion againfllhim. He doth, in thefe words of mytext upon their repentance promife tcdeliver them, when he hath exercifedtheir graces, and fhewed them thatthere is help and fuccour only in him-THE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 3ifelf, and not in the creature, which■we are too iipt to doat upon, and for-ijyet God our Creator,j it is our duty under fuch fevere,'•but very friendly difpenfations, whol-y to call ourfelves upon God for helpi.nd fuccour in the time of need, wi;oiath promifed that he will be with usn fix troubles, and deliver us in feven;hat is, in all our calamities and af-iiclions in this world, God will be airefentheip, a prefent relief, a prefentjj'upport, a prefent comfort, and a.iilefled portion to all his people, ini hofe great and various trials and af-didlions, that they ihall and may beiixercifed under.And this ought to be their greatcomfort, that it is from the hand of a^merciful Father, which doth all thiseJ o wean us from doating, and t6omuch relying upon earthly comforts,bind that we fhpuld reft contented inihe enjoyment of God alone.(St. Paul, he learned this excellenteffon of contentment, Philip, iv. 11.' 1 have learned in all Rates therewith' to be content.” He could ndt learnt t cf any other than his Mafter in4 THE GODLY MAN’S ARK.heaven. There is a divine art of con¬tentment to be learned in the fchoolof Chrift, which whofoever hath learned, hath taken a degree in heaven, andknows how to be happy both in wan»and abundance, faith pious bilhop HalllThe dodlrine that we fhould obferv<;is this, that God will be a near help|a fuccour, a flvield, a fupport and delliverer of his people in all the trouble!and afflictions that they can meet witllin this world. |And this is confirmed by fevera,;texts of holy fcripture, viz. “ Manfil‘Tare the afflictions of the righteoustc but the Lord will deliver him ou“ of them all,” Pfal. xxxiv. 19. “ Tht“ Lord is my Shepherd I lhall no“want,” Pfal. xxiii. 1. HopeinthiLord ; be (trong, and he fflall comforthine heart, and truft in the Lord)Pfalm xxxvii. 3, 25. “ fruft in th“ Lord and do good, fo thou fhal“ dwell in the land, and verily thoitf“ fflalt be fed. I have been young|“ and am now old; yet have I nol‘k feen the righteous forfaken, nor hij“ feed begging bread.”Commit thy ways to the Lord, anI((THE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 5truft in him, and he lhali bring it“ to pafs, that is, when we can fee noju end in our danger, he can.” Again,Caft thy burden upon the Lord, andii the Lord will fuftain thee.”Let us not only depend upon Godin flight troubles, but even in ourgreatefl afflictions ; let us not murmurin troubles, faying, “ What a burden1 “ do I bear, no man is fo troubled as I'“am;” but be it never fo grevious,tirefome, and as weighty as a moun-fj tain to carry, yet calf thy care and1 crofs on the Lord, and he will fupport| thee; he hath promiled to help us.“ Commit thy works to the Lord, and“ thy thoughts fliah be eflablilhed.”P ov. xvi. 3. God hath made a faith¬ful promife to take care of us, and fliallwe not call; all our care upon himthen, at all times, and in all feafons ?I Pet. v. 7. “ Cafting all your care up-“ on him, for he careth for you.”Forafmuch as God made all thingsout of nothing, how ought we to rruitin God in all (traits and neceflities ?for great is the fin of infidelity anddiftruft. When we diftruft God forwant of means, it is in effect to deny6 THE GODLY MAN’S ARK. Jhim to be God, and to make no diffe-j.rence between the creature and the!Creator; Do we doubt God’s all-fuf-|ficiency,becaufe wenow fee no outward |means ? Alas ! what difference do we imake between God and man! we think||man can help and fupply us if heljhad means, but God the Creator isljinfinite above the creature and cany,help us without any means. If theuij-hadft meat, drink, and money e-1nough, thou wouldft fear no want, |but the want of thefe things makes Ithee diirruftful, Alas ! from whence 1ccVme all thefe! did not God bring Ithem out of nothing ? And can not he 1as eaiily help thee many ways un- |l!known, and not thought of by thee,if thou truft in him, as then he couldmake the whole world out of nothing?It is atheifm and a denial of the God¬head, to doubt whether God could |make the world out of nothing ; and Jall infidelity in thefe cafes, favoursof atheifm, and a denial of the God- •head, when we doubt whether Godcan help us when we can fee nothingbut wants: Is it not ealier for him tohelp us than to make a world ? So inTHE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 7I any danger, when we are ftraidy befetjfiand hardly laid coo, and fee no meansl of deliverance or efcape, let us learnf| then to depend on God’s alhfufficiency.!,:Had we a ilrong guard of foldiers a-lbout us, we fhould not fear the ene¬my to brtak in upon us: Alas! didnot God make thefe foldiers and thei world out of nothing ? and doth heneed their help to deliver us? Thefe!« ought to teach us not to negledl the: i means that God hath given for our; j good, but thankfully to ufe them :l|| This ought to teach us to fear God andij| not man, whole breath is in his nof-I trils. The Lord gives us wildom tojf fear him, that can raife fears and ter-■J| rors in our hearts, that can fet thyI affrighted confcicnce againft thee, andJi can bring more mifery out of thy ownbofom than all the world befides.’Lis more dangerous to have God a-I gainft us, than all the men in the world.From hence we learn, that all theriches in the world cometh out of theS treafure of God’s all-fufEciency, there¬fore, if thou would ft be rich, get Godto be thy portion ; know this, that allr | the riches in the world are nothing§ THE GODLY MAN’S ARK.without God; therefore, learn to ef-teem God above all riches. Saith Da¬vid. “ Whom have 1 in heaven but“ rh ee ? And there is none on earth“ that 1 deftre befides thee.” PfalmIxxiii. 25.Oh! that we could remember thefethings fo as to prevent all diftruftfuland diftrading cares. Firft, They area dilhonour and reproach to the all-fnfficienr God, as though he was notable to fupply all our wants, and an-fwer all oar defires; and to deliver nsout of all our calamities and miferies.But, Secondly, Inordinate cares area great dilhonour to God, as if ourwants were pot known to him as hisown works; as if he had not a fixedeye upon all our llraits and trials thatlie upon us, and knows every burdenthat make us to figh, and did not be¬hold every affliction that makes us tofigh, and did not obferve every tear,that dropped from our eyes, Deut. xi.Pfal. xl. 5. 2 Cor. vi. 8. Turn to thefefcriptures, and they will affuredly con¬firm you.But, Thirdly, Inordinate cares are3 dilhonour and reproach to the mer-THE GODLY MAN’S A&K. gy and bounty of God ; they proclaimGod a hard Mafter and not fo free,imd noble and generous a Spirit as thefcripture and many thoufands fpeak'' him to be.I have read of a Duke of Milan,:bat married his daughter to a fon ofEngland ; he made a dinner of thirtyeourfes, and at every courfe he gave asmany gifts to every gueif at the tableas there were difhes in the courfe.Here was a rich and royal entertain-iment, here was noble bounty indeed!(but tins bounty is nothing to the<■' bounty of God to his people Princes*treafure nave been drawn drv, butGod’s bounty and liberality can ne-- i ver. Oh ! firs, you can as foon tell;i the ftars in the fky, or the fands onfill the fea thore, as the mercies of God!one day Ihewn to his people, yea, onehour, or one minute of an hour, fuchis the bounty and liberality of God,that he never takes away one mercy,but he is ready to fend another inthe room of it, Joftum’s candle beganto fhine before Mofes’s went out. hliwas not gathered to his fathers beforeSamuel appeared hopeful; nor Sarahco THF GODLY MAN’S AUK.before Rebekah was ready to come iher room.Again, Fourthly, Inordinate care^are a difhonour to the fidelity of God.!as though God was not the faithful]God, and hath bound himfelf by Pro-mife. Covenant, and Oath, to take carof his people, and to look to thwelfare.- God is the fountain anocean, from whence all faithfulnefsflows, upon which all our hope, praifesand prayers floweth. God will be fureto ihew himfelf a faithful God to allthat fear him. “ I had rather (faysPlutarch) that men fhould fay. Thatthere was never fuch a man as Plutarch,rather than fay* That Pultarch wasunfaithful.*’ Much lefs had men bet¬ter fay, There is no God, than to fay,God is unfaithful. Men commonlyfay and unfay that which they havefaid, but fo will not God: Jofhuacharges, the children of Ifrael to fhewbut in one thing, that God failed themin the good things that he had promd-ed them. If. God in his faithfulnefsafflict his People to make good histhreatening?, oh! much more will hein faithfulnefs preferve and provideTHE GOm,Y M AN’S ARK. ufor his people according to his pro-mi fe.Fifthly, Unlawful cares are a re¬proach to the pity and companion otGod: God is a God of pity and com¬panion to all his, fee Pfal ciii 13*“ Like as a father pitieth his children,“ fo the Lord pitieth them that fear“ him.” You know there is a greatlove, pity, and compaffion of a tenderfather towards his child, much morein God to his children.1 have read of a young man beingmerry at fea in a great llorm, and be¬ing alked the realbn, he anfwered,“ That the pilot of the fhip was hisfather.” Ah! firs, what ftorms andtemped there is in the world, that thepeople of God may be in, yet Rich isthe love and pity of God, that he willbe lure to have a care of his. Readthe golden promdes of God- in IT b.xiii “ Let your converfation be wieh-“ out covetoufaefs; for I will never“ leave thee nor forfake thee.” Sirs,fliall the word and promife of a kingcheer us againft the fear of want ? andfhali not the word of the King < f kingsarm us againft the diiira&ing caresX2 THE GODLY MAN’S ARK.of this life. Ah! ChriRians, the helpof having God to be onr portion,ought to bear up our fpirits, andmake us ling with that bleffed martyr,Mr. Carelefs; faith he, “ My foul is“ turned to her reft: 1 have taken a“ fweet nap in the lap of Chrift, and“ therefore I will fing away care, and“ be carelefs according to my name.”If the fenfe of God being our portionwill not reward our fufferings, andburn up all our cares that fill the head,and diftrael the heart, I know notwhat will. It was a noble fpeech ofthe Heathen Socrates, viz. “ Since“ God is fo careful of you, (faith he),“ what need you be careful of your-“ felves ?”Again, Sixthly, God will work aboveand beyond ordinary means, ratherthan fuch as are his ifhall want. Wehave a memorable example of the If-raelites, while they were in the wil-dernefs, he fed them with manna,for the fpace of forty years, and op¬ened the hard rock to give water forthem and their cattle to drink, Exod.xix. And alfo in the example of Eli¬jah, i Kings xvi. where he was forcedTHE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 13t o flee for his life from the perfecution>f Jezebel: The angel of the Lord bid1 dm rife and eat, and he walked byihe ftrength of that food forty days,>!j Kings xix. 7. And alfo how after¬wards the Lord fed him by ravens,hey brought him his food. Alfo hismiracle of the widow of Sarepta,vhere he was fed in the time of fa¬mine, ver. 14. of the xvii. chapter,The barrel of meal Avail not fail.”vgain the example of one of the pro¬phets’ widows, 2 Kings iv. How Godi .icreafed the pot of oil, that flie notnly paid her debts out of it, but hadnough to maintain her family be-■ ides. “ Thus God is a ftrong tower,l: the righteous fly to it, and are fafe.”:t imd tho’ they are often times enforcedif ) fuffer nakednefs, yet he will clotheaem with his righteoufnefs; theirraces fmell of myrrh, aloes and caf*,a, whereby they are more adornedaan with all the gold and fllver in thejjrhole world.1 Ufe 1. We learn faith, to trufl: andy hold on the promifes of God made. Chrift to fuch as have it dwelling.. Jt them : “Gafting all your care upon14 THE GODLY MAN’S AER.“ him, for he caretli for y<iu,” i Pet,v. 7. How did God provide for theRochellers in tha* fatal fiege, whemthey were ready to ilarve, by makinga company of fhher.- come and dehvethemfelves into their hands, that ne-jt;ver were in thofe parts before, norffince, and they abode till the fiege wa<ended. This was God’s great pro idence to them, the Lord hath fheweby many memorable example^, as we ^have alreaciy fliewed you, that he dothtake care of us, and wdl not fuffer usto want, if we call our care upon himiand this principle we ought to poiTel'sftrongly in our minds, Thnt God pro¬vides and cares for us. And therefore 1‘God’s children never wants enough,if they have faith enough to dependupon God, Matth. vi. 3 . . li But ieefcye firfl the kingdom of God, andhis righteoufhefs, and all thefsthings fhall be added unto youMark it, feek heavenly things, ancexpedt earthly ; labour for the oneand look for the other.Not, my friends, that we fhould btidle; he that doth not labour, mulnot eat; we mud ufe means that Goc<«ic7i! ' : xTHE GODLY MAN’g AEK. 15i hath appointed, and thofe we are toi ufe, and no othrr than God hath ap-! pointed, withour didrafting cares a-(Ibout the fuccefs. Ufe the mean? inobedience to God, and having ufedlithe means th n trud for a b'eTmg,Pfal. xxxvii. 5. “ Gommi!: thy way un-lU to the Lord, trtruft alfo in him, and1“ he (hall bring it to pafs.” Again,it is for want of faith, that caufes nsto didruft God when it is low with us,; as to all things of this world; there¬fore, labour to get faith, and exercifeifaith ; the ufe of faith is one of theotabled means to keep the foul fromeing over-charged with care; aftaith in the wifdom and providencef God. Faith quiets the heart invv »nt of any thing, by making it fare'jnnd prefent, Heb. xi. 1. “Now faith\ ‘ is the fubdance of things hoped for,1 ‘ the evidence of things not feen.”l Not only in regard of our fouls, butn regard of our bodies; alfo in all1 lungs live, walk, and do every thing|y faith, without faith we cannotleafe God, nor walk evenly beforejim.i6 THE GODLY MAN’S ARK:Grounds to know whether God willblefs us in our calling, and fpiritu-al way to thrive, and live withoutcare.FIRST, to think if you be not pro¬vident and diligent in your cal¬ling, and if God do not blefs yourdiligence, you may do the work ofycur calling in vain, and that youmay look for bad fuccefs ; this tothink is lawful and ufeful, for it willraife in you a refolution to be provi¬dent and diligent; and when youhave done all you can, thefe thingswill quicken you to pray to God forgood fuccefles : If your thoughts ofthriving, or not thriving be any other fojthan thefe, and defire of fuccefs driveyou to ufe unlawful means, from'Vodoubting that you cannot lb foon, orcertainly, or not at all fpeed by theufe of lawful, for it makes you full ol ;grief and fear, that though you ufipiall the good means you can, all wihpj>be in vain, if you be yet doubtfulpWMatt. vi. 31. “Therefore take nf;tnf,athought, laying, What lhall we eat 1SLXJ%THE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 17; or what (hail we drink ? or where¬withal ihall we be ciothed ?Again, Secondly, Conlider the abi-tty of faithfulnefs in God, who hathiken care of the iuccefs of your la-•our upon him, commanding you noto care, but to caft all your care uponim, 1 Pet. v. 7. If you would redpon this, you might be Pure of good; accefs in your outward date, evenccording to your delire, or God willlore than recompence the want there-,f, by caufing you to thrive, and haveood fuccefs in fpiritual things, which'ill be much better, and which youfould defire more.Again, in the third place, be dili-ent in the calling that God hath pla-|d you, let there be truth, plainnefsnd equity in your dealings with men;ircumvent nor defraud no man, makept your gain the fcale and mealure(trade by.Again, Fourthly, be provident andving; fee that you let not any op-)rtunity flip, and take heed of beingrcumvented by fraud and falfliood,id enfnared by unneceflary furety-ip. And be lure to make ufe of law-Ii8 THE GODLY MAN’S ARK.foil means of gaining and improvingthy eitaie, remembering that by ifweat of thy brow, much indufiry andlavvfaf care, thou mud get thy bread,1and expert a b’effing from God uponthy endeavours.1 (hali fhew you feveral reafons whyou Ihould nor caie eagerly and incodinately for things. Fird, Inform thyfeif thoroughiy, that all earthly thingsare of little worthy f ading and wither¬ing away hke grafs; it is extreme .foilv for us to let our hearts and minds✓upon that which are little worth, asriches are, that God gives rather ta 'his enemies than to his friends.Secondly, Immoderate care for earth¬ly things is exce eding hurtful, it breath-eth many hurtful luffs, which drawmen into perdition, it hindereth growthof heavenly and fpiritual things ; iwill cauie a man to err from the faith2 T im. vi 10. He whofe cares are toC|much about the eatth, his care wilbe too little h-r heaven. Next conirder, why w e mult not care at all abouM?the fuccels of our lawf d endeavoursany more than to commend them t«God.THE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 19F>r{fc, Becaufe it is ufurping uponhis pioper right, and entrenching too; fai into God's divine prerogative, tak-iing the work out of his hands; torthe care of luccefs, and what fhall behereafter, is proper to God.I Secondly, It is a vain and fruitlefsIthing when you have diligently ufedlawful means for any thing, to takethought for fuccels : “ And which of“ you by taking thought, c-,n add to,4 his ttature one cubit?'* Luke xii.5. “Or make one hhr white or‘black.” Underhand the like of ailOther things.1 hirdly, Every day bringeth its fullEmployment with it, together with itshrolTes and griefs, fo we lhall havemough of work for our care to do allj|he prefent work wholly, and to bearacn prefent day’s affiibtions trustfullynd patiently ; therefore we have lit-e realbn to eat out our hearts withe thoughts of tuture events, andhat Ihall be to morrow; for no wilean will clog himfeli with needlefsres.fourthly, Inordinate care proceedsom the curled root of unbelief, ig-n20 THE GODLY MAN’S ARKnorance and diftruft of God, andgueth little faith.1 ar-Fifthly, You will be apt to makeufe of unlawful means to attain yourends, when you doubt of lawful; tak¬ing thought, both divide, diitracl,overload and weary thee; and waftcl',thy heart and /pints, nothing more.Sixthly, You cannot be thankfufor any thing that God giveth youwhen you fear you have no good (uc-eefs.Oh! hew happy are we Chriftiansif w-e did but know j if knowing uwould enjoy our happinefs, we an jji,cared for in every thing we need, ancican be good for us ; we may live without taking thought or care in air Inthing; our work is only to ftudy anrifendeavour how to pleafe God, walk!;,,ing before him in fincerky, and wit. (j/a perfect heart; then we may cling thim and reft on him, both for ouifouls and bodies without fear and dit|,tra«flion. Exod. vi. 3.God is all-fufficient; if we fha.wifely and diligently do our work, wsjneed not tear our wages ; having 1bountiful a Matter and Father as Ga,THE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 21is, we need not be careful for ourmaintenance here in minority and non--/#ge, nor for an inheritance when wecome to full age : Thus we might livea heaven upon earth, and not onlyiwhen we have means, but when wehave no means, for God is above and; viimore than ail means to all his that re-dy lincerely upon him.Having {hewed you how God is aprefent help and fupport to his peoplein all afflictions and trials, we ihall1 further prove thefe truths by God’sall-fufficiency and the creature’s infuffi-i ciency, from Gen. vii, 1. “I am the“ Almighty God, walk before me and“ be thou perfeCt.”From thefe words we may obfervethat the caufe of our departure fromGod, and unevennefs of our ways to¬wards God, is from hence, that wedon’t think God all fufficient; So on1 the other fide, the caufe of all our fin-cerity, as perfeCtnefs and upright walk¬ing with God, arifeth from hence, thatwe do all know him to be all-fulii-cient.Sirs, the caufe of every man’s keep¬ing off from God,- and his uneven22 THE GODLY MAN’S ARK.walking with him, it is from hence,that they think God is not alhfufficient;hence it is that he Reps out of thewavs of God, and lavs hold on thecreature, and there feeks help.i ft. There is a generation of menin the world that look not towardsGod at all, confcious of nothing, be-caufe they think they have fufficientof their own ; and therefore, when aman is brought unto God, the firft■work is to take him off from his ownbottom, to (hew him his own empti-nefs, and the fulnefs and all-fufficiencythat is in God alone.A fecond fort of men are fuch ascome in and perform many things,and bring forth fome fruit, and be¬come profeffors* of the fear of God ;and yet they do it not thoroughly butby halves, and the caufe of their do¬ing fo is, that they cannot apprehendGod to be all-fufficient.A third fort of men are fuch as areregenerate which are yet fubjecft tomany flips, falls, and turnings afide;and the caufe of all this is, they ap¬prehended not God to be all-fufficient,and this was the fin of the angels thatLTHE GODLY MAN’S ARK. 23tie'll, that is the caufe of all the ii'isitomrnitted fince; and the reafonsi briefly are thefe.j Firil, From the defire of happinefs;|,;very man naturally defires happinefs.f there be any evil that lies uponurn that is not removed, or any goodihat he defires and wants, and dothdot enjoy, his heart cannot reft, andt he find not all- fufScieney in God,;'.e will be ready to Rep afide frompi i‘:jOQ.Secondly, In every fin there is aurning afide from God to the crea-rure; now it is certain, if a man didriiud an all-fufSciency in God, he wouldpot go.from him, nor leek to the crea¬ture.j To conclude, Thus, we have fhew-bd you God’s all-fufiiciency, and theIrue nature of perfect walking with1G0 I: What remains but that we fo;;walk, as hath been declared, in theiear of the Lord, and in all his wayswith an upright heart, carting ailour care upon him in alf our trou¬bles and trials that we meet with injthis world, “ Fear not little flock, for“ it is your Father’s good pleafure to24 THE GODLY MAN’S ARK.“give a kingdom in his good timei“ to his faithful ones,’* for the fake;and merits of his Son Chrift Jefiis*'our Lord. Amen.\ ■.God’s Condefcention to our Worfhip. |1 THY favours. Lord furprife our foulsj 1Will the Eternal dwell with us ?What can’ll thou find beneath the poles||To tempt thy chariot downward thus ? I2 Still might he fill his ftary throne,And pleafe his ears with Gabriel’s fongs;But th’ heav’nly Majefly come’s down, |And bows to hearken to our tongues.3 Great God ! what poor returns we pay IFor love fo infinite as thine ?Words are but air, and tongues but clay*But thy companion’s all divine.F I N I S.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. and M. ROBERTSON 1[No. l8.] SALTMARKET, 1806.