THEc.New Letter Writer,POLITE CORRESPONDENCE,On Friendfhip, Bufinefs, Courtfliip,Love, and Marriage.To which is added,Cards of Compliment.PAISLET:Printed by J. Neilsok.181 i.THELETTER WRITER.From a friend to Another in the Country.Dear Sir,MBOLDENED by the many protefta-tions of friendfhip which you have beenio kind to make, I take the liberty oEJiumblyrequefting you will be fo good as to devotethe firll convenient day you have in feekinga proper fchool for my eldeft fon ; it beingmy duty, I think, to put him under the careof a good preceptor ; for as he is now capableof fpelling and reading decently, of courfe,foe wants the inftructions of a mafter, not ofa miftrefs. i with him, if poffible, to be nearyou. that I may frequently have the pleafureof hearing a real account of the progrefsJsvhicu he makes Your compliance with theabove, will be a confiderable addition to allformer obligations, and render meYour much obliged Servant,C 3 )Anfwer to the foregoing.Dear Sir,According to your requeft, I made everyoeceflary inquiry $ and am happy to informyou, that within about two miles of my re-fidence there is a gentleman of the churchwho keeps a fchool, that bears a moil excellentcharacter : his attention to the young gentle¬men under his care is remarkable—^his termsare moderate—and his mode of teaching uni-verfally approved of: he wifely endeavoursto render tiv arduous talk of learning morea pleafure than a toil; corrects with gentle-nd’s the feveral errors of forward difpolitions;and inilils fuch noble principles in their youngjtninds, that, as they improve in years, growup with them. His firit and general care ismaking them write letters with eafe andelegance.—This he does by putting the Let-ier Writer into their hands, and makingEach eftablilh a correfpondence with another,while a certain day in the week is ap¬propriated for examining their epiflles, andwery due encouragement is given to fuch asxcel in their productions. Should it pleafe;ny friend to fend his fon to this fchool, helay depend upon my conftant vilits to feeim and a faithful communication of whatrogrefs he makes. I (hall alfo endeavour to•nder the young gentleman’s holidays asgreeable to him as poffible ; and, by Ihewing' iy affection for the fon, prove hew much 1n his father’s moil obedient, &c.( 4 )fi hi Father's Reply, returning thank'.' Impressed with a juft fenie of p^y dear friend's£ood-nature and benevolence, t really feel, butcannot pollibly exprefs, how much I am in¬debted to him. Accept my thanks for thekind care and afiiduity you have nvanifeftedin complying with my rcquefts'; and believeme, that, from the great recommendation youhave given of the fchool, 1 fhall not only pre¬fer it to any other, but fend my fon therewithout further loft of time.Yours ftncerely, S;c.* From a Lady to her Friend in the Country.My dear friend will, I hope, excufe the taficI am about impofmg on her, when flie comfiders theueceftity of thebufinefs. My daugh¬ter Harriot, is now arrived to an age that isnot only the moft capable of acquiring, butalfo of retaining inftructions. 1 think it theduty of all fond mothers, according to thebeft of their abilities, to give their daughtersa good education. A young lady poftefiedof thefe definable accomplifhments, which canonly be derived from proper governefles,needs no further qualifications to encounterthe vicifilt.udes of life, i requeft, then, you.will make a fpeedy application to your neigh¬bour, Mrs. . 1 with to know her terms;of teaching Dancing, Mufic, Englifh, French,and efpecialiy all manner of needle-work; for,* though Harriot will be miftrefs of a goodfortune, it is, notwithftanding, indifputably( J )necefTary, that a young lady fhould know tieproper ufe of her needle. I Ihall wait withthe utmoft impatience for my friend’s anfwer,meantime remain, Hers affectionately, &c.yin anfwer to the above.Aoref.able to my friend’s requeft, I haveapplied to mj& neighbour, who keeps theboarding i'chool. I have inclofed her card,which contains her terms and the rules of herfchool. 1 approve highly of your intention,and doubt not, but Harriot herfelf, when fliebecomes fenfible of your goodnefs, will begrateful for it. I am furprifed you fliouldthink the talk of friendfhip any trouble—forthe future then, inftead of requetling—com¬mand the fervices ofYours mod fincerely, See.*  A Reply to the foregoing.Mv dear Charlotte,* *The lady’s terms being exceedingly moderate,and the rules of the fchool correfponding en¬tirely with my wifhes, l do not hefitate infending her my dear girl immediately ; af-fured, from the great encouragement whichyour polite favour has given me, that Har¬riot, during our reparation, will, every op¬portunity, find a fecond mother in her mo¬ther’s dear friend.Yours mod gratefully, &c.( 6 )Fnm a Son to bis Father.Dear and moil Worthy Sir,This being the day appointed by my mafierfor epilile-writing, and left to nay choice ofaddreffing whom l pleafed, 1 could not pof-fibly forbear availing myfelf of the fir ft op¬portunity to inquire after my <dear father'shealth—and alfo to exprefs the fatisfactionand pleafure I feel in my prefent fttuation ; 'for my mafter is fo good, that he indulges mewith many hours of recreation, and 1 makeno doubt but l fhall profit fo much by hisgreat care and inftrucrions, as to be fhortlyable to give ample fpecimens that no atteh- ;tion is wanting on my part.I am, dear father, Your molt dutiful Son.The Father’s anfiver.My dear Boy,; I cannot poflibly exprefs the great fatisfactioni felt, while reading your affectionate letter.You have given me great proofs already ofyour attention; nor fhall your prefent affiduitybeunrewarded; for I have herewith written tomy friend to increafe your pocket-money. Iam happy that you take fo much pieafure inlearning, this being the time tor improvement.I hey repent generally all their lives, whoneglect their ftudies in their early days. Youthis never to be redeemed. Continue then, mydear fon, to mind your book, and obferveyour mafter’s precepts, for your prefent labourwill make amp1e compenfation hereaftefj andyou {hall always find me,Your affectionate father.From the Son to the Father, requeuing leave tofee him.Dear and Honoured Sir,To-m >rrow being the day appointed forour breaking up for the holidays, i {hall behappy, if it were agreeable to you, to fpendthe vacation at home, as I feel a ftrong in¬clination to fee my dear father and motheragain, my fillers, and other loving relations.Should my requeft meet with your approba¬tion, fince my matter has referred me to you,I {hall prepare for> my journey early in theweek, when I hhpe perfonaliy to declare my-feif. Your dutiful Son.An A. fiver to the above.My dear Boy,Just on the receipt of your letter, your mo¬ther and l, after fome ferious confideration,had refolved to wrke to your matter, re-fpecting the requeft you have made. 1 amhappy to find that it is agreeable to him, for,believe me, we are as eager to fee you, asyou can poffibly be to fee us. l admire yourwitti, as it is the refult of filial affection ;therefore, as foon as pofiible, prepare for yourjourney. Meanwhile, believe me to be,Your affectionate father, &c.( 8 ) 'From a Daughter to her Mother.iMy dear Mamma,I have feized the ear lie ft opportunity of re¬turning lincere thanks for this evident af-furance of maternal affection, in placing meunder the care of a worthy woman, whooften reminds me of my dear mamma, byher motherly affection. It is impcflible tooverlook her inftructioos, file takes fuchgentle means of giving them. 1 want no¬thing to make me completely happy, ex¬cept your good prefence ; but as I know itis for my good, I endeavour to reconcilemyfelf to our reparation The time 1 hopewill fhortly come, when I fhall fee my dear idear mamma, and declare p.')felf in perfhn,Her moft dutiful daughter, &c,___—7he Mother's anfwcr,Deareft Harriot,Your letter gave me inexprefiible happinefs,as every line evidently proceeded from the 'heart. I rejoice to hear by letters from myfriend, that you make a rapid prfgrds inyour French. Yqu pay uncommon attention, II underftand, to your grammar, which gives Ime no little latxsfaction ; for i allure you,Harriot, nothing redounds more to the creditof a young lady, than writing-and fpeaking .correctly ; how' many of our fex expole them-ielves by corrupt phrafes and falfe concords! J1 would not that my child w^ould be pedantic ||and over nice. It is a miftaken notion-t.aC 9 3ihink that learning in oar fex is alwaysunited with ftiff pedantry. They are ig¬norant and vain who make a bead of theirqualifications; and it is thofe who pretendto the mod that are generally the lead enduedwith underftariding : Never, tny dear Harriot,affed fuperiority of knowledge; let yourftile be always plain and faniiliar, but ex¬empt from vvdgsriirns ; never make uie of a.-’word you do not perfectly underlland : I -have often blufhed for many a young lady,,nay, many of the other fex too, who had in¬troduced expreflions quite foreign to theirintended meaning : this downright ignoranceproceeds from downright arrogance: I datefay, my dear Harriot, knowing what an ^enemy I am to repetitions, will now turn criticand find faults with my downrights. But,take notice, that when a repetition enforcesan affertion, it is then, indead of being afault, deemed a beauty; there are manytautologies in our poe^s, which, in a greatmeafure, add to their force and energy. Iam proud to find niy dear Harriot fo correctin her fpelling ; there is 'nothing dignifies afem-.’e letter, more than this attention; ayoung lady fltould always haveJier dictionarynear her, and never commit a word to paperthat (he entertains the lead dbubt of. It has* been remarked by fome conceited, emptyfools, that good fpelling is not to be expectedfrom the pens of young ladies ; and why not ?Do you not,-my dear child, feel this decla-( 10 )ration as an infult to our underilanding ?Are we not endued with the £ime capabilityof acquiring learning as a man ? Are we notequally docile, and fhall we not be equallyimproved ? If every female feels^his fayingas I do, they would be flimulated to prove itabfurd and falfe \ they would apply them-felves more to ftudy, and convince the world,that a Smith can write as well as a Cumber¬land-—a Robinfon or Inchbald as correct as a■Burgoyne. I need not add more to convincemy dear Harriot of the utility of learning.I hope fee will make herfelf miftrefs of herown language, before fee attempts to learnanother; for it is too often the cafe, that a ;young lady will begin French before feeknows Englife ; and young gentleman asfrequently begin Latin before- they can readthe Bible; in lake map,ner;.Cqr£ek before theyare acquainted .vyith t^he l^atin Rudiments;the fatal conf^qupnee is, that when they leavetheir ftudies, they are ignorant of all. Ihope to furprile my dear Harriot fhortly, bypaying her.an unexpected vifif,and giving heran agreeable prefent, to prove mylelf,Her affectionate mother, &c.From a Tradcfmon to his Son, at School.My dear William,As you are now arrived to an age of difeern-ment, I hope you will not mifpend the rnoftprecious part of your life, and neglect tholeqeceffary medns which moft qualify you to( 1* )become an ufeful citizen. Let me knovrwhatever bullnefs your inclination leads youto, and I &ail look out immepiately for aproper roafter: but, before you become ap¬prenticed, it behoves you to be very diligent;you fhould read with propriety, write well,and underftand accounts perfectly ; pay par¬ticular attention to your fpelling and arith¬metic. 1 deiire an anfwer to this by returnof poft, without being either previously reador corrected by your mafter, that 1 may here¬by judge of the progrefs you are making.1 am your affe&ionate father,W. Tradiwell.The Son's anfwer.Dear and Honoured Sir,In obedience to your requefts, you may de¬pend upon my diligence and -attention, itbeing the chief of my ambition to be boundas foon as pofiible, and become a man ofbufinefs. i confefs myfelf partial to the em¬ployments of a Eookfeller and Stationer:fhould my father endeavour to procure fucka mafter for me, I would ftrain every nerveto render myfelf a worthy apprentice, and asduty demands, a grateful fon. William.The Father to his Son, when bound.IVIy dear William,AS 1 have now fatisfied your wifh, in pro¬curing you the defired mafter, I hope youwill be mindful of the advice I gave you the-IC i* )lad time I had the pleafure of feeing you.Confider your future profperity depends uponyour prefent attention; think no more ofplay, but devote your mfnd to bufinefs: Inihort, lofe the boy by becoming the man ;be obedient to all your mailer’s commands,follow his advice and example, and I makeno doubt but you will becom'e a worthyand refpectable citizen. I remain your af¬fectionate father, W. Tradewell,The Son's Anfwer.Dear Sir,I should be both wanting in duty and gra¬titude, if I neglected your advice. 1 have noreafon to complain. You have put me to abulinefs I admire ; and my mailer is as in¬dulgent as my father. I am confcious of thenecellity of tby obedience and attention, andhope 1 fhall never be deficient in either. Iam, dear Sir, your dutiful Son,William.From a young Merchant to a WhoUfale Dealer.By the recommendation of a neighbour, whohas expatiated much upon your character,'I think proper, while commencing bufinefs,to make application to you, requeiling youwill fend me a proper quantity ot things fora young beginner, of the bell quality, and onthe moll reafonable terms, which 1 think my-( J3 )felf entitled to, as all our dealings, I intend,fhall be ready money. I am, Sir, Yours, &c.From the Wholefale Dealer in Anfwer.In anfwer to your favour of the 6th inftant,I fhall, by to-morrow’s coach, fend you a fewarticles, which I fhall fubmit as a fpecimenof both the quality and cheapnefs of all mythings. Should it be your pleafure to repeatyour order, I fhall endeavour to prove rnyfelfdeferving of your favour. I am, with fincerewifhes for your fuccefs, 'Your obliged Servant.From a Trade/man to another, for Money.Sir,Having an unexpected bill to make up, andbeir.g at prefent deficient in money, I take theliberty of troubling you for the (mall balanceof accounts which is at prefent between us.If it fhould be inconvenient to let me havetke whole, a part at this critical juncture willexceedingly obligeYour very humble Servant.The Anfwer.Sir,Agreeable to your requeft, 1 have inclofedan order, payable at fight, for the full balancewhich remains due, to Mr. Tradevvell, atCheapfide, who will deliver cither it or thecafh, upon receiving your receipt for the fame.I requeft, for the future, that you wall give( 14 )'me proper notice when you wifli payment tobe made. Yours, &c.From a Retail Dealer to a Wholefale one.Sir,AS it behoves me, as well as every one elfe inbufinefs, to be very particular in reipect of thegoodnefs of their commodities, l am forry toinform you, that the laft articles I receivedfrom your home by no means correfpondwith my wifhes; and if you do not, for thefuture, let me have prime goods, regard formy deputation will oblige me to apply elfe-where. lam, Sir,Your humble Servant.jin Anfwer to the above.Sir,I am exceedingly forry, through the miftakfeof my journeyman, you ftiouid have anycaufe of complaint; but, as 1 intend for thefuture to overfee all the articles you mayrequire made up before they are fent, youmay depend upon receiving the very bell. Aproper abatement (hall be made on the formergoods delivered. 1 am. Sir,Your obliged Servant.From Wholefale Dealers to a Retail one.Sir,We are exceedingly forry to be under theneceflity of becoming now urgent, but asyou are very backward in your remittances.( '5 )and mir profits fo fmall on the goods wehave fent you, we expect an immediate draft,or order, for the fum which is fo long due,otherwife we ftiall be obliged to take fuchmeafures as mull prove very difagreeable toyou, and, Sir, Your humble Servants.An An fiver to the foregoing.Gentlemen,The unexpected and fcvere lofies which Ihave felt, have been, I affure you, the foiecaufe of my being thus remifs. I humblyacknowlegde your lenity, and requeft^youracceptance of my bill at two months* date,money being at this time very fcarce, andmy debtors exceedingly tardy in their pay¬ments. Should this be agreeable, you maydepend upon my puncluality in future, as Inow intend to enter into a refolution of giv¬ing no credit. 1 am, with fincere thanks foryour late goodnefs, Gentlemen,Your obliged Servant, R. Worthy.A Reply to the above Anfiver.Sir,We fhould be exceedingly forry to difirefsany one, knowing the ill confequences ofbeing diftreffed outfelves. We have thereforefent a bill for your acceptance, at three, in¬head of two months date; by which time,we fincerdy hope you may furmount all yourdifficulties. We remain, Sir,Your humble Servants, Tr a delove & Co.'( 16 )Vrem a Lover to the Object of his Affection.Madam,The ardent paflion I entertain for you, beingfounded on the balls of fincerity, will, I hope,be ample apology for this feeming prefump-tion. As my views are both honourable andjuft, they cannot, I truft, give any offence tothat delicacy which I lb much admire. Ihave beheld you, unobferved, with the pro-foundeft attention, till at 1 aft, 1 w as led tobehold you with admiration ; and difeoveringfuch amiability in your countenance, was in¬duced by the fenlibility which it indicated, to-flatter myfelf your mind is fufceptible of im-preffion, and would not deny encouragement,where truth, honour, and fmcerUy are ad¬vocates. 1 am thereby encouraged to avowan honeft paiiion, and indulge at leaft a diftanf-hope of fuccefs. Permit me, then, on apyday that may be convenient, and in the pre-fence of whatever taiend may be deemed moftproper, perfonally to afiure you how much iam, with all due rcfpect,Your lincere friend, and ardent lover,-The young Lady's Anfivcr.,Sir,AS your unexpected favour required muchconfideration, it was totally out of my powerto give it an immediate reply. I w>3 inducedto think fome part of it flattery, than whichthere is nothing gives me greater offence. Attimes I was apprehenfive that the whole pro-( l7 )ceeded from gallantry ; but I hope. Sir, nei-the my conduct nor manners render me aproper object for.ill-timed wit or cruel fport:there is fomething however, in the latterpart of your favour, which promifes fincerity,and indicates honour. I cannot, however,approve of a fudden pafHon which prudenceand decorum forbid ; notwithftanding 1 fhallbe very happy to have the pleafurc of yourcompany any evening, with Other friends,provided you will wave a fubject that requiresboth time and confideration before it can bewith any propriety introduced, 1 am, Sir,Your humble Servant,Rosima.   * . +To the fame Lady, after fame time.Dear Madam,You will now give me leave, I hope, to renew? fubject which, according to your requeft,I have, with the greateft difficulty imaginable,endeavoured to fupprefs. You have ampleproofs,,! flatter myfelf, that neither interellednor difhonourable views attend this propofal.I candidly declare, that I never found myheart in the utuation it is now. This fenftbi-Hty of love, fufceptible of every nice feeling,induces me to announce an utter averfion tothofe tedious forms of courtffiip, which Ihear have often continued, till love itfelf be¬came weary and indifferent. Whether mypaffion is more ardent than common, 1 cannot( '8 )fay, but, I really affure $ >u. I can live n6longer without you, I atn, fo much M oam,Your lincere admirer, R, L.cm,the 1 oung Lady in Reply.Sir,I am no more fond of the fafhionable modesof courtfhip than yourfeif. Plain dealing, Iacknowledge, is bed ; but methir.ks, commondecency fhould always be prefcrvedOur acquaintance has been no longer thanfix months- too ftiort a time, i think, to ;form an opinion pf one’s difpofition ; and Iaffure ypu. Sir, l hope, the man that is def-tined to be my hufband may know me per¬fectly, while he is my loverThere is fomething fo peculiar and whim-fical in your manner ot exprelli >n, that l amabfolutely at a lofs to determine whether youare ferious, or only write for your own a-mufement. 1 muft, therefore, beg leave todecline all further remarks upon this fubject,till we a"e better known to each other, andyou explain yourfeif in more intelligible terms,i (hall then, perhaps, be better able to form ajudgement of your pafilon, and more capableof returning a oroper anfwer. What in¬fluence your future addrefles may have overme, I cannot pofiibly fay, but to be more freeand candid, ycur prefent attempts have madeno impreflion upon the heart ofRosina.( *9 )Vrom a friend to another, advifing him to Marry.Dear Charles, -I am foi;ry to hear that you have abfolutelydeclared againtl matrimony, and for no otherreafom as i can learn, but becaufe you a#e notacquainted with its fweets Has not bothProvidence and religion enjoined this (acredunion ? Would we be now in exigence onlyfor it ? But without confining ourfelves togeneral reflections, let us fee if you couldnot live more comfortably with a woman,than in the (ingle (late you are at prefent re-folvcd to make choice of; for my part, 1 muftthink that if you think yourfeli capable of| regulating a family, ot living upon good termsj with an honelt perfon, and of giving good e-I ducation to your children, you would;find thatSi there is nothing more agreeable than to livei' with a woman who has made a tender ofherfelf to you, and who is inclined to dif-charge" faithfully all the dudes incumbent onthat union. If you examine every thingwhich pafles in a family under proper re¬gulations. you will (ee that a good virtuouswife, (hares with her hufband all the pleafuresor borrow that may happen. His joy (he en-creafes by adding her own, and his afflictions(he alleviates by the part (lie bears in them.Conjugal affection, when it is (incere, feldomdecreafes; but, fuppofing the firft tranfportof love to fuffer an abatement, flill a virtuouswoman is the bed friend a man can have;they concert together the meafures they judge( 20 )conformable to what they defign to undertakeor put in execution ; they never act but byagreement: their thoughts and fentimentsreft on the foundation of mutual corTfidence;and ^he good underftanding which fubfiftsbetween them, adds unfpeakable charms tothe union. A huiband may leave home andenjoy uninterrupted tranquillity, becaufe heleaves the care of family concerns to a frugaland good houfewife. If he has children—*how fweet are the effects of his love, whowill hereafter be the fupport of his old age ?Single life in men can no where find theconfo-lation and affiftance that are to be met with inthe fociety of women. Providence has giventhis help to man as a fort of helpmate, andtherefore, as the fcripture fays, “ it is notgood for man to he alone.”The Romans (as appears in hiforyj expel¬led from t -eir city thofe who perfifted to livein a ftate of celibacy, as being ufelefs to therepublic. There is fomething unnatural in aman defiring to remain a bachelor ail rtiedays of his life ? It is contradictory to thelaws of reafon and nature ! He that hates awoman, hates the lovelieft part of heaven’s ^creation, and well def'erves to be hated him-felf! I hope, then, my friend will change hisopinion of a ftngle life, and lay upon himfelftheinjundlion of matrimonv,\vhich,nodoubtjwill be more agreeable tnan he has hithertothought it. He will, I hope, take in part the( 21 )advice I here prefume to give, and'brievethat I am, His fincere friend.Oliver Lovefair.Sir,An An fiver.I thank you for your letter of advice; andto prove that I have attended to your coun-fel, and followed your precepts, I beg leaveto inform you, that I have given both myhand and heart, this day, to a lady of Groi-venor-fquare. This may appear fomewhat ex¬traordinary after die refolution that 1 made ;but believe me, Sir, that refolution proceedednot from an averiion to women, as you haveunkindly iniinuated, but from motives ofreal tendernefs and affection. My propertywas but finall, and only fufficient for one per-fon ; by marrying, I not only endanger thehappiness of myfelf, but perhaps bring mis-"fortunes upon the head of a virtuous woman.hr poverty knocks at the door, love not onlygives admittance, but leaves the room ; andthofe very children that you fay will be ourcomfort and happinefs, may ferve, in fuchcafe, only to add to our affliction, by addingto our wants. Believe me, my dear Sir, Ifiiould never, notwithftanding all your per-fuafive arguments, have been tempted in mypoor {late to marry a woman, had not myuncle lately died and left me an effate, which,without an, heir, muft have perifhed in myfamily; for, though your picture of matri-mony is very Captivating, and may in fomemeafure be juft, yet, (for example) i can draw-one that is not only alarming, but equally -true—hufband and wife are cogether withouta competency for life; a child, year after yearenters the world, to be both miferable and tomake them fo! Are the cries of thefe childrenharmonious ?—are they the fweets of matri¬mony ? “ It is better for a man to be alone.”All politenefs after marriage ceafes : “ Alover, when a hufband, is a lover no more.”This is a common faying, and I believe it isverified by almoft every couple after the honey- <moon. Good manners and refpect generallyceafe after marfiage, and of courie ill-humourand anger fill their place! If a wife dropsher handkerchief, her fan, or any thing elle,the hufband leaves her to take it up herfelf}but when he was courting, how readily wouldhe fly to her afliftance, how gladly flop toferve her ? A hufband you may fee very oftentake the wall-fide of his wife whenever theyare walking together; they will frequently !take a long walk and not exchange a Angleword. Such are the pleafures and harmonyof matrimony.My friend will now give me leave to pointout the bleflings of a Angle life. A bachelorhas no caufe for jealoufy, nor is he frettedwith the jealoufy of his wife 1 he is unac¬quainted with the actions of crim. con. andthe difquietudes attending a bad woman—he has no fons to torment him with extra-C 23 ) .ivagence and diffipation ; he has no daughters■eloping with footmen, or facrificing their■virtue ; infhort,he has no plagues w hich are||fo common to married men, and which.Heaven grant may never be known by myIdear friend, or hisMoil affectionate Servant.CARDS of COMPLIMENT.Lord B — requefts the pleafure of Mr.V—’s company, this evening to join him and(Other friends at the Opera Houfe.7"uefday morning.Mr. F—'s moft refpectful compliments to■Lord B—, is very forry he is already engagedion a fimilar occafion.Tuefday, i o'clock.Mr. Airy prefents his bell compliments toMifs Watfon, requefts the honour of beingher partner to-morrow evening at the Affem-/bly. Tburfday afternoon-' [I Mifs Watfon returns thanks to Mr. Airyicor his poUte offer, w'hich fhe is very forrysihe cannot accept, having already engagedrjierfelf.Tburfdaji 5 o'clock.I Mifs H—*s refpectful compliments to LadyfyV—, entreats the honour of her companyibis afternoon to tea and coffee.i o o'clock morning.( 24 )Lady W—’s compliments to Mifs H-“*>is happy to accept the polite invitation.11 o’clock morning.Mrs. William's compliments-to Mrs. Hartleyand the young ladies, hopes they have gotfafe home, and are perfedly recovered fromthe fatigue of laft night.Wednefday.Mrs. and Miffes Hartley return thanks tdMrs. Williams for her kind enquiries—re^turned home perfectly fafe, and are all well—Sally accepted, who has got a flight cold..Wednefday.Mifs Wilmot’s compliments to Mifs Har-court, requefts the pleafure of her companyto dinner next Sunday. Dinner to be on thetable at four o’clock.Friday.Mifs Harcourt’s compliments, will not failto wait upon Mifs Wilmot.Friday.N B. All cards of compliment fliould be con¬fined to one fubject, exprefled with eafe$.elegance and brevity.J. Neilfon primer.