ADIS S ERT ATI O NON THEFirjl DAY of the Week,AND THELajl of the World;o R,A Beautiful Defcant on the Dayof Judgment.By a young Gentleman, Student in Divinity afithe Univerfny of Cambridge.Repent, Ohl man, before it it too (ate:Leave off thy fins, make fur e thy future fate iThen after death, a fairer place be years.Than all the fwets cf Eden's pieafant bowers.<00*. '~0-. ^00*.'01 O0VC0-- i0i<O0Va£nz0>L0*'47iG vL A S G O W:PRINTED IN THE YEAR 178s.( 2 )ADiflertation on the firlt day of the Week,Exod. XX. via. Remember the Sabbath day to keepit holy*ONSIDER this, O man ! and remember theftri£b commands of thy God. The almightyand everlafting Being, from his infinite goodnefsand mercy, has thought proper to give thee fix daysto labour in, and referv’d only one day for himfelf;and will we puny mortals, beings of a day, dareto put the Almighty to defiance, and rob him ofthat too.There is a certain pleafure arifes in the mind ofman from the drift obfervance of this mod holyday, that all the wild variety of forbidden pleafurethe world can afford, cannot equal, in fix days theLord made heaven and earthy the jea and a!l thatin them is, and rejied the fievcnth day, -whereforethe Lord blefifcd tbs Sabbath day and hallowed it. Ifay, that God who.fpoke the heavens and the earthand all their glorious retinue into exidence, he whoplaced the glorious fun in the firmament, thatfplendid luminary, the fountain of light and heat,and of alt the fair creation, the only refemblanceof its great Creator: He who lighted up the filvermoon, whofe lucid rays yield bearps of comfort toa benighted world: He who deck’d the fpacicusAND THELa ft of the Wcrld,arch of heaven with coantlefs flars, and adornedit with all the lovely drapery of the Ikies: He whofaid to the wide extended ocean, hitherto (haltthou come, but no further: He it is, who com¬mands thee to remember the Sabbath day; and dar-eit thou, O man ! difobey the drift commands o£thy God, who, in the twinkling of an eye, canannihilate thee to thy original nothing. An airof reverential awe reigns this day o’er the fpaciousworld, and all nature feems to aflilt in the grandfolemnity. The flowing trefles of the beautifulAurora, fcarce' waves in golden ringlets o’er thedappled eaS, when the early lark in notes farfweeter than his ufual lay, ufhers in the facredmorn, while all the fweet harmonious featheredtribe, in various plumage dre.ft, that keenly percheson each lofty tree, or wings their way thro’ fieldsof tracklefs air, join irt the general concert to war¬ble forth the praifes of their Maker, and the world’sgreat Lohd.The leafy woods, the hollow rocks and plains,the fragrant bowers, whofe grateful odours breathambrofial fweets, and blooming groves of fweetenamel’d flowers in each fair garden, rings withthe joyful fong, till heaven’s high arch reverberatesthe found. The neighing horfe, the lowing ox,and all the numerous quadruped creation that (portalong the enamel’d plains, or favage rove throughdiftarn wilds, affiimes this day an air of gravity*The buzzing reptiles humm from pole to pole, andbreathe in inarticulate founds, the praifes of theirall-creating Lord. Noble examples, and folelydefign’d by God to inftruft and teach mankind tofhun the direful road of vice, and tread th'e goldenpaths of virtue, whofe flowery walks lead afterdeath to the manfions of eternal blifs. Thus theirrational creation outvies man in his duty this day,and flriftly obferves the laws impofed upon them( 4 >by tlieir great Creator; nor fmce the day the greatJEHOVAH made this fpacious world and hung itin the air, did ever any yet of all the fair creationon earth, in air or fea, except rebellious man dif-obey the mandate of the cverlafting Deity, or de¬viate from their firft eltate? Noy ’tis only man thatbreaks his Lord’s commands; but remember this,that your deaths are certain, and your judgmentiurei The glorious fun from the golden chambersof the flaming eaft, will one day arife and dart forthhis chearing beams on thee, but never to fet onthee again: and one evening he will withdraw hispartipg rays from thee never to rife on thee again.I tell you there will come a morning, when you{hall never fee an evening, and an evening whenyou fliall never fee a morning. Thefe things youmay believe are no fi£tions nor vain imaginationsof vifionary brains, but all fad realities. Livetherefore in this world, fo as you may obtain aneternal happinefs in the next, and if thou haft, doneevil, do fo no more ; for what doth tke Lord requireof thee, 0 man, but to do juflly, and love mercy,and to humble tbyfeff to -walk with thy God, (bykeeping his commandments), for thou may believeit, if thou breakeft off thy fms by a fincere repen¬tance, and fly to, and believe on the ever-blefl'edJefus, he will have mercy upon you, and receiveyou, as he hath promifed, into his everiaftingkingdom. What are all the fleeting pleafures ofthis tranfitory world, compared to an everlaftinghappinefs in the next l Is it poffible then, thatman, who is a rational being, And pofl'efled of animmortal and never-dying foul, fhould fo far foregohis intereft in an eternal world, as to place all hishappinefs in this. It is certainly a delufion. Canthe founding titles of a high birth, the airy grau-dures of a court, the numerous retinue of a gildedchariot, or all the flattering pageantries of ftatc.which often vanifli e’er yet half enjoy’d, have fodeep an imprefTion on the mind of man as to ren¬der him altogether incapable of the fweet contem¬plations of a never ending felicity. If fo, it werebetter we had never exifted nor wak’d to life inthis world. If all our happinefs is placed here,and after death no prqipedt but to exchange ourdarling pleafures and our iliort liv’d joys in thisworld, for eternal horror in the next. Oh! bowI (brink back and fbudder at the thought, naturerecoils and chills the blood in every vein; but (tillthere is hope on this fide death, a lifting hope whichdawns eternal day ; for the blood of the immortalJefus, through a fmcere repentance, can wafh fromevery fin.The uiexpreffible pleafure, which a truly reli¬gious man enjoys in the.fl.ridt performance of hisduty to God, (as far as in him lies,) fo far out bai-lanccs the fenfual pleafures of this life, that adrop of rain to the fpacious ocean, is no compa-rifon. And the great duty of remembering theSabbath-day to keep it h:tv> is certainly produdtivecf every good; becaufe there are very few, nay,I hope none at all, who delight to obferve this holyday, but will have a guard upon themfelves theenfuing week, and do all that in them lies to keepit holy too; hut if we mifpend this holy day, howcan we expect t’»e blefting of the Almighty to fol¬low us in the other fix. Therefore, O man, whom*foever thou art, for the good of thine everlaftingfoul, and for the fake of our ever-bleffed and glo¬rious Redeemer Jefus Chrilt our Lord, Keep thisday holy: On this day did lie who died for the fm?of a ruined world, rife again to the refurredtionof eternal life, and fmifh’d the glorious and in-comprehenfible plan of man’s everlafting redemp¬tion, And on this memorable day, it may be,that owr immaculate Lord and Saviour, the ever-c 6 }blefled Jefus, may command the archangel to blowthe laft trump, and fummon both quick and dead,high and low, rich and poor, from the four windsof heaven, to appear before the awful tribunal ofthis our Lord, our Saviour, and moft juft Judge.Ah ! in what a trembling (ituation will the wretch¬ed miferabie finner then appear, who has fpent hislife in all kinds of debaucheries, and has not be¬fore death repented of his folly, when he beholdsin flaming glory, attended with all the glorioushaft of heaven, the radient face of his ofl'endedSaviour, the omnipotent Judge of all the earth,defending in the clouds, to take vengeance on aguilty world, attended with ten thoufand thoufandmyriads of faints and angels in his train. Oh !-tremehduous day, that wiih’d for day by the evetirblelTed company of God’s eledl; but oh ! with whatdreadful horror, will tkat day burft upon thofepoor dejefted fouls deem’d to eternal perdition, allibrrowful, all difconfolate, all in tears and univer-ial horror, will then fit ruefully triumphant ontheir meagre brows. Not one ray of comfort, norbeam of hope, nor joy, nor pieafure, will fparklein their eyes, and nothing appear in their balefulcountenances, but a-fearful looking for a dreadfuljudgment. Oh ! finner, remember thefe thingswhile here in this lower world, and meditate onthy latter end, for then, alas! it will be too, toolate wh?n the graves are opening, the rocks rend¬ing, the mountains rocking, the ocean boiling, andnature burfting from pole to pole; that awful daywill put a period to nil things, to the reign of kings,the power of princes, and the pomp of worlds. Inthat day {hall the mighty emperors, the kings andprinces of the earth, lay afide their purple robes ofroyalty, the golden feeptres, and the diadems offt ate, to take their trial before the King of kings;in that day will fail to pieces the fumptuous palaces,the fpiendid maufoleums, and the triumphal archesof the great, the large and populace cities, whichfor trade and commerce had monopoliz’d the richesof the world, and whofe (lately and magnificentcurtofnies, had perhaps for ages unknown, beenthe wonder and admiration of the curious traveller,muft then exchange their tranfitory greatnefs, tofall a vi&im in the burning world. In that day,fhall the glorious Maker of heaven and earth, ar-reft the rapid motion of our rolling fphere, andflop the career of the glorious fun in the firma¬ment, that fpiendid luminary that glads all naturewith his cheCring rays; the filver moon, that lucidorb, that fupplies the abfence of the diftant fun,and gilds the horrors of the raven-colour’d night,fhall no more move round her axis, no more ob-fer ve her periodical revolu tions, her hi un ted changesnor her blazing fulls; the planets ftopt in theirrounds, and the twinkling ftars commanded tomove no more, by that God who made them,launch’d them from his arm, and hung them i.n theair; all {hall ceafe and the glory of the world fhallbe no more, and the archangel fhali proclaim in avoice as rolls the thunder loud, that {hall reach tothe ends of the earth and fea, and reverberate thefound through the lofty arch of heaven, What timeJhall be no more. O ! that divine contemplation inall her ricii attire, would take full poffeGion of theheart of every mortal while here in this world, andinftil in their minds the continual thoughts of afuture flate ; the heaven they have to enjoy, andthe hell they have to efcape. G ! what man, up¬on a ferious refieftion on there two oppofitesi, wouldnot be enraptur’d with the endlefs joys of the one,while the dreadful thoughts of the everlafting tor¬ments of the other congeals the very blood in theveins ; but O ! what pen can deferibe, or imagina¬tion paint the tranfeendant happiaefs, that forever{ 8 )reigns through all the manGons of eternal blifa.O! the joy, the ineffable pleafure it nwft be to adeparted foul, to be ever m the prefence of theever-bleffed and immaculate. Lamb of God, towhom the faints and angels tune- their golden lyresto refound his praifs in eternal hallelujahs throughall the golden concaves of heaven. There fits thefupreme Deity enthron’d in flaming glory, -at whofeefulgent prefence, the fplendid rays of ten thou-fand funs would dwindle into nothing. Therereigns an eternal fpring; there is no night there,and a verdure unfading, crowns the celeftial plains.There the flowers forever bloom, and dift'ufe im¬mortal fragrance through all the bowers of ever*lafting blifs. There grows the tree of life, whofegrateful fruit pregnant with ne&arean juice, makesthofe who eat to hunger no more. There is thepure water of life, as it were running along fundsof gold and falling o’er rocks of transparent chryf-tal, forming the mott beautiful cafcades, of whichif any one drink he fhall third no more. This isthe heaven for the wrav'ed foul, the place of de¬lights and the kingei - a of felicity prepared for thefpirits of the juft made perfect. To this habitationmay all the ends of the earth leek. Let the ■wickedferfake his way, and the unrighteous man his thought^and I will have mercy on him, and welcome him tothefe regions of unclouded joy, fayeth the greatGod of heaven and earth Watch ye therefore andpray, for ye know neither the day nor the hour inwhich the [on of man comcth- Now'- to the facredfpring of all mercy, the ever-bleffed and adorrhieTrinity, be all honour and glory, thankfgiving andpraife, from henceforth and for ever. Amen.FINIS.