FORFARSHIRE,CAPTAIN HUMBLE,Which Struck on the Fern islandsOn her Voyage to Dundee, on the night of the 7th Sep¬tember, 1S38, andTHE HEROIC CONDUCTGRACE RARESA’G.In venturing her life, and rescuing the Survivors ft’omdestruction.-‘OJ- £. L'l T„ ,a w w> iwud ot 4^^ j.. «d /T /.O j io: '’!! ilHTTOTAL LOSSOF THEFORFARSHIRE.939iil Maruiitf osLf , ,niiw9i|Tlie Forfarshire Kteaincr, a vesselof about 300 tons burthen, under thecommand of Mr. John Humble,formerly master of the Neptune of thisport,, sailed from Hull, Jm her voyageto Dundee, on the evening oiWednesday, tlie 5th of September,1838? ahout. half-past six-o’clock,along with the Pagasus and fnnisfailfor Leith, with a valuable cargo ofhale goods^nd sheet iron ; and havingon hoard about twenty-two cabin andnineteen steerage - passenger, asnearly as could he ascertained,Captain Humble and his wife, tens eamen, four firenten; two engineerstwo coal trimmers, and two stewards.Previous to leaving Hull, theboilers had been'examined amla smallleak closed up ; but when off Flambro’Head the leakage re-appeard, and«<fritmued for about six hours’ not,however, to much extent, as thepumps were able to keep the vesselquite dry. The engine-man, AllanStewart, who furnished theseparticulars, also states that he hadfrequently seen the boiler as bad ask was on this occasion. The firemanDaniel Donovan, however, representsthe leakage as considerable, so muchso that two of the fires wereextinguished ; but they were relightedafter the boilers had been partiallyrepaired. The progress of the vesselwas of course retarded, and threesteam-vessels passed her before shehad proceeded far. The unusualhustle on the Forfarshire, ineonsequence ,©f the state of the boilers,attracted the notice of several of thepassengers, and Mrs. Dawson, asteerage passenger, who was one ofthe survivors, stated, that even beforethe vessel left Hull, so strong washer impression, from indications onboard, that “ all was not right” that5if her husband, who was a glass man,had come down to the packet in timeshe would haye returned with him onshore.In this inefficient state, the vessel,with about sixty individuals on board,was sent out and proceeded on hervoyage, and passed through the11 Fairway,” between the FernIslands and the land, about six o’clockon Thursday evening. She enteredBerwick bay about eight o’clock thesame evening, the sea running high,and the wind blowing strong fromthe N.N.E. From the motion of thevessel, the leak increased to such adegree, that the firemen could notkeep the fire hurning. Two menwere then employed to pump waterinto the boilers, but it escaped throughthe leak as fast as they pumped it in.About ten o’clock she bore up off St.Abb’s Head, the storm still ragingwith unabated fury. The engine soonafter became entirely useless, and theengine-man reported that they wouldtiot work. There being groat dangerOf drifting ashore, the sails Were6hois d fore and aft, and the vesselgot ibont wi;order to get her beforethe wind, and keep her off the land.No attempt was made to anchor.The vessel soon became unmanage¬able, and the tide setting strong to thesouth, she proceeded in that direction.It rained heavily during the wholetime, and the fog was so dense that itbecame impossible to tell the situationof the vessel. At length breakerswere discovered close to leeward, andthe Fern Lights which about the sameperiod became visible, relieved alldoubt as to the imminent peril of allon board. An attempt was made torun the vessel between the FernIslands, but she refused to answer herhelm, and at three o’clock on Fridaymorning she struck with tremendousforce against the outer or Long-stoneIsland.A portion of the crew, intent onlyon self-preservation, had lowered thestarbord-quarter boat down, and leftthe ship, amongst whom was the firstmate, James Duncan. The stroke of7-the vessel on the rock was regarded,as the signal of death. The masterlost all self-possession, and his wife,who was on board with him, soughtin cries of anguish and despair theprhtection which, alas, he could notextend. • The cries of females on deck,mingled with the roaring of the oceanand the screams of the wild fowldisturbed from their resting-places,whilst the men, clinging to the vesselawaited in silence their inevitablefate. Most of the cabin passengerswere below, and among of them,only Mr. Ruthven Ritchie', of Hill ofRuthven, Pirthshire^ was saved. Onbeing awoke, he arose instantly, andseizing his trousers, rushed upon deckfrom whence, observing the sailorsleaping into the boat, lie, with anextraordinary effort, by means of arope, swung himself into it, and wasthus miraculously preserved. Theuncle and aunt of this. gentlemanmade a desperate effort to get into theboat just as it was leaving the wreck,and, in endeavouring to leap on boardthey fell into the sea and perished in8his sight. He had nothing on all thetime he was in the boat but a shirtand a pair of trowsers ; and his em¬ployment whilst in it was baling outthe water with a pair of shoes for a“howskelly.” The escape of the boatwas remarkable. There was only-one outlet by which it could escapebeing dashed by the breakers againstthe island, and that outlet was takenwithout the parties being aware of it.The boat’s crew passed through themighty current uninjured, and, afterbeing exposed in an open boat allnight, were picked up about eighto’clock on Saturday morning by aMontrose boat, and carried intoShields. Mr Ritchie had fortunatelysome sovereigns in the pockets of histrousers, which he brought out of thecabin, and these enabled him to pro¬cure clothes soon after being landed.The following is a list of the crew andpassengers brought into Shields :—John Matson, second mate ; JamesHill, Alexander Murray, Robert Fox,Allan Stewart, engineer; Jas. Hall,«oal-trimmer; David Grant, Ruthven9Ritchie, farmer ; and James Duncan,first mate. Mr. Ritchie proceeded toBamburgh, to enquire into the fate ofhis fellow passengers, and thence hewent to Edinburgh on his way hometo communicate the melancholyintelligence to his friends. The mateand some other of the crew reachedDundee on the Tuesday following.The vessel struck aft the paddleboxes, and not above three minutesafter the few survivors had rushedupon deck, a second shock separatedher in two parts—the stern, quarter¬deck, and cabin, being instantly carri¬ed away with all upon them, througha tremendous current called the PiperGut, which is dangerous even intemperate weather, running betweenthe islands at the rapidity of six milesan hour, and in tempestuous weatherbecomes terrific; whilst the fore partof the vessel remained fast on therock. The captain stuck to the wrecktill washed overboard with his wifein his arms, and both were drowned.The situation of the few passengerswho remained on the fore part of the10vessel was perilous in the extreme.Placed on a small rock surroundedby the sea, which threatened to en-giilph them, and their companionshaving but just before been sweptaway from them, they were clingingto life whilst all hope of relief wassinking within them, and crying forhelp, whilst the tempestuous billowsdrowned their feeble shrieks and defiedtheir puny efforts* to escape. Theircries, however, were not unheard.Their shouts of distress fell upon theear of Miss Grace Horsley Darling,who, with her lather, Mr. W. Darlingoccupies the outer Fern Lighthouse.She awakened her parent, and atdaybreak he launched his boat andprepared to proceed to their rescue.The State of the tide and of. the weatherwas such as to render any attempt to reachthe wreck extremely dangerous; and the oldman, who had never before known the qualingsof fear, was loth in such a tremendous gale torush, as he considered, on certain death. Afterwatching the wreck for spine time, they disco¬vered, from some movement, that living beingswere still clinging to it, and the gallant female:15who partook of her fathers generous sympathyas she acknowledged the relationship of fleshand blood, with matchless intrepidity, seizedthe oar and entered the boat. This was enoughthe noble parent followed* and with theassistance of the fair sailor, conducted the skiffover the foaming billows to the spot wherethe wreck appeared. By a dangerous anddesperate effort the father was landed on therock, and to preserve the frail coble from beingdashed to pieces, it was rapidly rowed backamong the awful abyss of waters, and keptafloat by the skilfulness and dexterity of thisnoble minded young women. At length thewhole of the survivors, consisting of five ofthe crew and four of the deck passengers,were taken from the wreck, and conveyed tothe lighthouse, where the same tender handadministered to^thcir wants, and anxiously,for three days and three nights, waited onthe sufferers, and soothed their afflictions.By the assistance of the crew they were en¬abled to bring the coble and its burthen tothe Long-stone Islands. It is impossible tospeak in too high terms of this unparalleledact of humanity bravery and disinterestedness.This perilous achievement—unexampled inthe feats of female fortitude—was witnessedby the survivors in silent wonder. The mainyland could not be reached, from the state ofthe weather, till Sunday, and during thewhole of thii time the attentions of the heroinewere indefatigable.The rtafhes of the individuals saved fromthe wreck of the Forfarshire, by Mr. Darlingand his daughtei are—John Kidd, firemanOf*Dundee; Jonathan Ticket, cook, of Hull;John Macqueen. coal trimmer, Dundee ; JohnTulloek, carpenter, Dundee ; John Nicholsonfireman, Dundee, of the crew. D. Donovanfireman, and free passenger of Dundee ; JamesKeeley, weaver, Dundee ; Thomas Buchanan,baker, Dundee ; Mrs. Dawson, bound toDuhdee, passenger. The entire numbersaved is eighteen, of whom thirteen belongedto the vessel, and five were passengers. Theremainder an board perished.The wreck of the steamer was Seen fromNorth Sunderland, on the morning of thewreck, about six o’clock, when signals werehoisted and guns fired immediately, but mencould not be found to go off in the life-boat4After some delay seven persons volunteeredtheir services, and set out in a four-oaredcoble. The boat shipped several seas in thecourse of her perilous voyage, and on theirway they spoke a steam-vessel of London,going north, and requested the captain to17proceed to the wreck, offering at the sametime to pilot the vessel, as they could easilyhave done to within a few yards of the lee ofthe rock in seven fathoms water. The captainhowever, declined, and the men in the coblo,after much exertion, succeeded in reachingthe wreck. They found three bodies, one ofthem dressed in black, apparently about fortyyears of age, who, from papers found on hisperson, is supposed to be the Rev. John Robb,•fDunkeld. The other two were brother andsister, the boy eleven and the girl eight years•f age, and children of Mrs. Dawson, whowas saved by the exertions of Mr. Darlingand his daughter. They also took a quantityof copper and some light articles whichwould soon have been washed away. Thestorm raged with unabated fury, and inattempting to return, they were compelled toput in at Longstone Lighthouse, which theyreached with much difficulty, where theywere obliged to remain two days and tw®nights in a temporary building, the waves•ccasionally bursting in and obliging them toseek shelter in the Lighthouse tower, whichwas occupied by Mr. and Miss Darling, andthe persons they had saved from the wreck.They n>ade another attempt to reach NorthSunderland on Sunday, but they were obliged18to run in at Bedne], where they remainedtill the following day. They visited the wreckon Monday, and found the body of an Irish¬man, named John Gallehar, who lately residedat Dundee. The names of the brave andmeritorious individuals who ventured theirlives from North Sunderland are as follow :—Wm. Robson, James Robson, Michael RobsonWm. Swain, Brooks Darling (brother’to MissDarling,) Thomas Cuthbertson, and RobertKnox. They behaved most gallantly.The wreck was discovered from BamburghCastle early on Friday morning, when asignal was hoisted, and an alarm-gun firedalong the shore to apprise the fishermen ofthe calafnity. The life-boat could not belaunched from the extremely boisterous stateof the"weather, but every thing was done thatcould be devised ; and Mr. Smeddle, theprincipal agent, Mr. Hamilton, and otherattached to the castle, were most indefatigablein their exertions.On the following Monday the four bodieswere brought to the castle, and on the nextday an inquest was held before Stephen ReedEsq., in the absence of T. A. Russell, Esq.,when after a patient investigation, the coronersummed up, and the jury returned a verdictto the following effect:—Wrecked on board19the Forfarshire steam-packet by the imper¬fections of the boilers, and culpable negligenceof the captain not putting back to port.Deodand on the vessel, £100, being one-halfof the estimated value of that part of the vesseland machinery left upon the rock.One of the most heart-rending circumstancesconnected with this melancholy eventoccurred during the night when the survivorswere on the rock. The vessel became atotal wreck in less than a quarter of an hourafter she struck ; and those that were fortunateenough to get on the rock suffered severelyfrom the cold, and from the heavy seas whichwashed over them at intervals. The clotheswere mostly torn of, and from continuedexertions they were reduced to a state ofcomplete exhaustion. The most agonizingspectacle was that of Mrs. Dawson, with hertwo children, a boy and a girl, eight andeleven years of [age, firmly grasped in eachhand : there she held them in the agonies ofdespair long after the buffetings of the waveswhich drove them to and fro, had deprivedthem of existence. She was severely injuredand remained at Bamburgh, unable to proceedhomewards. Donover was also much hurt;and he stated that he lay for three hoursholding on by a spike nail.20It is impossible to tell with certainty thenumber of those who have suffered, inasmuchas no entries were made when the passengersembarked. One of the survivors states thenumber at forty-two, and another at fortyseven. As only five are known to be saved,the probable loss of life will be between thirtyseven and forty-five passengers ; and themaster and his wife, and seven of the crew,will make the total loss between forty-six amififty-one persons. The following are thenames of some of the sufferers :—Captain Humble and wife ; the Rev. JohnRobb, Dunkeld ; Mr. Bell, factor to LrdKinnoul; Mrs. Allison, Peasholme house, Yorkwith son and grandson ; Miss Martin, o f No.28, St. James’-street, Aberdeen, and onechild. This lady had considerable propertyon her person ; it is said 800 sovereigns,in some part of her dress. Mr. and Mrs.Allen, and one child, said to be last fromRussia; Mr. Robert Allison, of Dundee; Mr.John and William Grant, of Louth, Lincoln¬shire; Mr. Fasten and a friend ; Mr. Scott, ofDundee, and hid son about seven years of age,Mr. Brown and Mr. M-Cloud ; Mr. Arnett,and two friends ; tylrs. Patrick, of Hull, wife•f Captain Patrick, of the Clara.There are among the sufferers three gentle¬men belonging to Perth, one to Fife, and oneto St. Petersburgh. A female steeragepassenger lost two children, one was drownedand the othgr died in her arms. Amongstthe persons brought to the spot from a distancewas one gentleman who had lost his wife, sonand grandson, another his mother and brother.The only part of the vessel which remained,ceosisied of the forecastle, part of the engine,paddle-wheels, anchor, cable, foremast andrigging. One of the boilers was washed tosea, while the other two were thrown on therocks broken. The engine, which was 180horse power, was greatly damaged. Aquantity of new boiler plate was found amongthe wreck. A part is sunk a little to the southof Hawker’s rock, and, as it is supposed, thobodies of several persons who have not beenfound were in it, a rope was attached to itfor the'purpose of raising it, in order to satisfythe anxiety of their surviving friends. Theeargo is stated to have been very valuable,having been insured to the amount of $4,000;but only three boxes of soap have been dis¬covered. Parts of the wreck have been thrown«u shore at Hauxley, Amble, Hartley, andother parts of the coast of Northumberland.The stern of the vessel, with the name, a haircovered trunk, and a corded box was seen onMonday, the 10th of September, from the deckof the London Merchant steam-vessel, floatingoff Seahatn. The stern was also seen, nearthe same place, from the City of Edinburghsteamer, the day before. The brig Williams,Captain Blyth, of Sunderland from Hamburghwhen about five miles from the land off Hartle-poole, on the same day, fell in with a quantityof wreck, which is supposed to have belongedto the Forfarshire steamer. Among othermaterials was the poop of a vessel, togetherwith a box about fifteen feet long, and twqa«d a half feet square, containing a quantitypf the maehinery. Search was long made22•for the bodies of the unfortunate sufferersand the property of the vessel ; and everyassistance was rendered by the agents atBamburgh Castle, as well as by the fisher¬men and revenue officers on the coaSt.The' Forfarshire was a new vessel, havingbeen little more than two years at sea.She first sailed from Dundee in May 1836 ;she sailed weekly between Dnndee and Hull,and had engines of 120 or 200-horse power.The Captain (Mr. John HumbleJ belongedto Shields, and served his apprenticeship tothe sea in one'of the collier sloops* tradingbetween1 that place and Newcastle. The firststeamer fie was in was a small 'Tugrboat,which belonged to Shields, called thethrsethe afterwards commanded another steamer,called the Neptune, which sailed betweenHull and Newcastle. Ho also was some timemate of the Eclipse, the Newcastle, and Leithboat already mentioned.Grace Darling’s brilliant action, while itastonished all, that beneath a woman’s slenderframe, so noble, so heroic a heart could beatraised their enthusiastic delight. Subscriptionsto reward this noble girl for her unpar¬alleled bravery were set on foot,; and manyhandsome presents from noble personagestogether with the sum of seven hundredpounds, were presented to her. flinging, asthe world did with her achievement, andpleased, as she doubtless was, at its appro¬bation, she refused all the offers that weremade to raise her to a higher sphere, contentto remain in her sea-girt home amongst herhumble friends. 1 ^23Ere long, and before the applause at hernoble action had died away, the fatal disease,consumption, had fastened upon her. In spiteof all the efforts of her friends to remove thisever fatal complaint, she sunk under it; and,on the 20th of October, 1842, without a groanor murmur, she died.LOSS OF THE AMERICAN SHIP,GOLDEN RULE,CAPTAIN AUSTIN, COMMANDER.Which sprung a Leak September 29, 1807, and of theSufferings of tke Crew.The ship, Golden Rule Captain Austin, sailedfrom Willcasset with a cargo of timber,September 8, 1807.On the 29th, she expermced a severe galefrom the south-east, and at eight o’clock, a. m.they discovered she had sprung a leak, andhad four feet water in her hold at nine ithad increased to eight feet, notwithstandingthey had two pumps going, and were throwingher deck load overboard, which they wereenabled to do very slowly from the sea drivingthe planks about the deck, and wounding thecrew.About ten o’clock, the water had rigen totwelve feet, and the gale had also evidentlydecreased ; the crew and all on board werequite exhausted ; and going into the cabin, theyfound she was welling fast. The main andmizen-masts were now cut away, to preventher upsetting, and she was quite clear of herdeck load. At eleven o’clock she was full upfl4lier main deck, and all her bulk headswere knocked away.It now occurred to the crew, to endeavourto save some bread ; and Mr. Boyd, the firstmate, with great resolution, went into thecabin, and gave out some bread, and twobottles of rum ; but so rapidly did she fill,from the timber of her cargo shifting, thathe was forced to break through the sky-lightto save himself.Their small stock pf provisions was now-put into the binnacle, as a secure place. Ithad been there but a few- minutes, when atremendous sea struck them, and carried awaythe binnacle. They had nqw little hope left,the wheel was broken, and they proceededt« secure themselves as well ns they could,some in the fore-top, and the rest were lashing-themselves to the taffrail; before they c ouldaccomplish the latter plan, enotber seit, ifpossible, more heavy than the former, hurriedthem all from their places, and washed two•f their poor men overboard : they were seenswimming for the ship a short time, whena wave hurried them from the sight of theirlamenting comrades.The ship’s deck was now blown np, and herside stove in, and they had all given them¬selves up, when on the 30th, at noon, theywere ronsed by the cry, Of" A saill’-and theyhad the satisfaction to see her boar down forthem. About three she came alongside. Shewas the brig George, of Portland, and CaptainWildrige sent his long-boat, and took themfrom the wreck.THE EVD.