LEPER the TAILOR.JiIFUN UPON FUN;on,THE MERRY TRICKSOFLEPER THE TAILORLeper’s father lived in a village a-bor.t six miles from Glasgow, and diedwhen he was but very young; he lefta widow and three children, twojdaughters and a son ; Leper being theyoungest, was greatly idolized by hismother, who was a good soft-naturedwoman, very industrious, and follow¬ed the business of bleaching cloth.As Leper grew up he turned a verymischievous boy, playing many trickson the neighbourhood, such as tyingcats to dog’s tails, breaking hen’s legs,stopping people’s lums or chimney- Ltops; so that his poor mother wassadly vexed with complaints against a811iTo get him kept from mischief, sheprevailed with a tailor to take him as anapprentice ; he settled, and was verypeaceable for some time, until begot somuch of his trade on his finger endsas might make him pass for a journey¬man, and then he was indifferent whe¬ther he staid with his master or not. Hismistress gave him but very little meatwhen he wrought at home, so he likedbest to be in other houses, where hegot both meat and diversion.Leper was resolved on revenge a-gainst his mistress for her thin kail, nokitchen, and little bread ; for thoughflesh was boiled in the pot, there wasnone for poor Leper and his master, buta little bit on Sunday’s, and then all thebones were kept and put in the pot, tomake the broth through the week. Le¬per perceived that when she took off thepot, she always turned her back to themand took out the flesh, and set it on a~shelf in her own bed-room. One night,,after work, he steals out a pan, cuts apiece of flesh out of a dead horse, and then4goes to a lime kiln and boils it; nextday, his master being from home, hislandlady and him being in the house,after she had set off the pot as usual,and taken out her bit of good beef, hewent out for some time, and then cameback saying, theminister’slassis wishingyou to go directly and speak to hermistress. Off she goes in all haste;Leper runs and takes away her bits ofgood meat, and lays down his horseflesh; and knowing she would returnin a passion, and sit down with a sossin her cushioned chair, as she used, hetakes a large pin, and staps it straightthrough the cushion, with its head onthe chair, and the point to her back¬side. So in she comes in a rage, anddown she sits with all her weight onthe pin point, andthen roars out, ‘Mur¬der, murder,’ for she was sticket in thea—e ; the neighbours came running in,and Leper went out with his bit ofgood beef, leaving the wives to doctorhis landlady’s doup as they pleased,He still denied the doing of it, and his3.master believed it might happen acci¬dentally ; but the how die was. very oftto be had before it was got hale- again :! andhis landlady, by eating of that horsebeef, took such a loathing at flesh, thatLeper and his master got all the beefever after, and his landlady turned oneof the kifidest mistresses an apprentice| could wish for.There was a neighbour wife on whom1 Leper used to play tricks sometimes,for which she came and complained tohis master, and got him severely beat¬en several times. Leper resolved tob£ revenged on her ; so one day hecame to the backside of the house (noone being in hut herself), and took upI a big stone, and runs along the rough,wall with all his strength, which roar¬ed like thunder in the inside of thehouse ; and frightened the wife so, thatshe thought the house was tumblingdown about her ears, upon which she ranout, and sat down at a distance, lookingevery minute when the house would falldown, till her husband came home and'6persuaded her to go in, to whom shetold the above story. ‘ Hout tout,daft tapie,’ said lie, ‘the house willstand these hundred years.’ Leperknowing they were both in, comes andplays the same trick over again, whichalso frightened the goodman so much,that he cried out—‘ Run, Maggy, run,for my heart plays pitty-patty.’ Andthey would not lodge in the house anymore, till the masons convinced themof its sufficiency.There was another neighbour whohad a snarling cur dog, which bit Le¬per’s leg ; Leper resolved to be reven¬ged on the dog; and so one night hecatches the dog, and carries him to thekirk, where the rope of the bell hungon the outside; so with Ids garter hetied the dog’s sore foot to the r..pe, andleft him hanging ; the dog strugglingto get free, set the bell a-ringing,which alarmed the whole village. Everyone cried out ‘ Wonderful sirs! won¬derful sirs! the devil is ringing thebell.’ When they saw the black col-teyiley hanging at the rope, I true it set!: the minister, and all the people to theirprayers : but Leper, fearing he would! be detected by his garter, came to theminister’s side, and asked the reverendgentleman what was the matter ? ‘ In¬deed, my bairn,' said he, 4 ’tis the deilringing the kirk bell.’ Says Leper,4 I’llgo and see him, for I never saw thedeil;’ the minister cried,4 Stop that madladdie ;’ but Leper ran and loosed thedog, crying, 4 It’s such a man’s dog,which had the rope in its teeth.’ Theyall cried out, 4 The deil’s i’ the dog, thedeil’s i’ the dog;’ then took up stonesand felled poor colley, and the devil gotthe blame of making the dog ring the, bell. Thisspread Leper’sfaine for beingone of the wisest and most courageoustailors that was in all the kingdom ;and many, shaking their heads, said,4 It was a pity he was a tailor, but acaptain or general of an army, as thedevil could not fear him/After this, a farmer in the neigh-| bourhood hearing the fame of Leper,8how he had frighted the deil frao beinga bellman, sent for him to an rie-house,and drank with him very diy, andtold him he was sadly down Va spirit of jealousy aga his Avife,and a suspickn of her l; g too freewith a servant lad he had adore ; andif he avoliId keep it secret, and learnhim to find it out, he Avould give hismother a load of meal, to which Leperagreed, and gave the poor supposedcuckold instructions how to behave.So home he goes, and finds himselfvery siclv, and every day worse andAvorse; takingdeathtohim, heblesseshisthree small children, and charges hiswife not to marry, until his childrencould do something for themselves.T h i s hy pocrit i cal w o m an t ake s a r o ari n g,‘Aha! marry, she should never marry !no, no, there should never a man lie bymy side, or kiss my lips after thee, myain dear lamb, Johnny.’—Then he act-ed the dead man as well as he possiblycould ; the neighbours Avere called in,and he’s fairly o’erseen, as the old say-9ing is, before good neighbours. Thesorrowful widow made sad lament,wrung her hands and tore her hair—The reverend women about began todress the corpse, and asked her for ashirt. ‘Ay, ay, said she, he has tw anew lin¬en sarks, and here is an auld ane in thebottom o’ the kist, that naebody canwear ; ony thing's good enough for thegrave. Well, said they, we must havesome linen for a winding-sheet. Aweel,quo’ she, I hae twa cut o’ linen i’ thekist neuk; but there’s a pair o’ auldlinen sheets, hol’d i’ the middle, maydo well enough; I hae need tobe carefu’;I am a poor widow the day wi’ threesma’ bairns.’Aweel, the corpse is dressed, and laidon the ton of the bio- rhest. while the10aukl barn door, and the calf kist willdo well enough ; ony thing's gude e-nough to gang to the grave wi’; but O,quo’ she, 4 send for Sandy, my honestanld servant, and he'll see every thingright done; I'll tell him where hewill get siller to do any thing wi’; he’s jthe lad that will not see me wrang’d.’ iThen Sandy comes wrying his face, andrubbing his eyes. ‘ O Sandy, there’s asad alteration here, and ba-a a,’ shecries like a bitten calf, 4 O sirs, will yegang a’ butt the house till I tell him |what to do ; butt they went, and thereshe fell a kissing of Sandy, and said,Now, my dear, the auldchatteringguestis awa’, and we’ll get our will o’ ither ;be as haining of every thing as ye can, ,for thou kens it’s a’ thy ain ; but the f;corpse’s sister, and some other people 1came in ; ben they went to see thecorpse, lifts up the cloth off his face, *and seeing him all in a pour of sweat,said, Hech, he’s a bonny corpse, and alively like colour ; when he could nolonger contain himself to carry on the11joke, but up he got among them, a deal{of people ran for it, and his wife cried| out, ‘ O, my dear, do you ken me ?’ Ay,;,you base jade and whore, better thani ever I did.’ Jumps on the floor, gets| his staff and runs after Sandy, andi catches him in the fields, a little fromi the house;—ate and drank with hissister and neighbours who had come toi seemis corpse : and poor Sandy wentI home with a skin full of terror, and asorting of sore bones, took a sore fev^er,((and died a few days after, so he gotj quit of his cuckolder, and Leper’s mo-t ther got her load of meal.Leper’s mother was a careful indus¬trious wife, but, as the by-word is, ‘ar working mother makes a dally daugh-.iter,’ and so it happened here, for shei had twa idle glaiket sluts of daugb• ters, that would do noticing but lie intheir bed in the morning, till, as the! saying is, ‘ the sun was like to burn a1 hole in their backsides.’ The old wo¬man, who was bleaching some cloth, wasvery early at work in the mornings,ISand Leper’s patience being worn outwith the laziness of his two sisters, heresolved to play a trick on them, fortheir reformation ; so he goes and gets' a mortcloth, and spreads it on the bedabove them, and sends the dead bellthrough the town, inviting the peoplenext day, at four o’clock, afternoon, tothe burial of his two sisters, for theyhad died suddenly : this brought all theneighbouring wives in, who one afteranother lifted up the mortcloth, andsaid with a sigh, ‘ They’ve gone to theirrest, a sudden call indeed !’ Their aunt,hearing of this sudden news, came run¬ning in all haste, and coming wherethe jades’ mither was at work, and wasignorant of thestory, shecries out, ‘Fyeupon ye, woman, fye upon ye !’6 What’sthe matter, sister,’saysshe? ‘What’s thematter ! I think you might let yourwork stand for ae day, when your daugh¬ter’s are baith lying corpse.’ ‘My bairnscorpse 1 I am certain they went to bedhale and fair last night.’ ‘ But i tellyou,’ says the other, ‘ the dead bell has13been tnrongh warning the folks to theburial ; then the mother cries out, ‘ Othe villain ! O the villain ! that he didnot send me word. ’ So they both ran,and the mother, as soon as she enteredthe house, flies to the bed, crying, ‘ Omy bairns, my dear bairns, ’ on whichthe sluts rose up in a consternation, tothe great surprise of the beholders, andthe great mortification of the girls, whothought shame to let their noses out ofdoors, and to the div'ersion of the wholetown.Leper and his master went to a gen¬tleman’s house to work, where therewas a saucy housekeeper, who had moreignorance and pride than good senseHand manners ; she domineered over herfellow servants in a tyrannical manner:Leper resolved to mortify her pride ;bo he finds an ant’s nest, and takestheir white eggs, grinds them to a pow¬der, and puts them into the dish hersupper sowns was to be put in. Afterdie had taken her supper, as she wascovering the table, the immock powder14began to operate, and she let a greatfart. Well done Marget, says the Laird,your arse would take a cautioner: be-«/fore she got out of the chamber doorlshe let fly another crack; then she goes jto order her fellow servant to give the ?Laird his supper, but before she couldgive the necessary directions, she gavefire again, which set them all a laugh¬ing. She runs into a room herself, andthere she played away her own gun-bat¬tery so fast, that you would havethought she had been besieging the Ha-vannah. The Laird and Lady cameto hear the fun ; they were like to splittheir sides at proud Maggy. So nextmorning she left her place, to the greatsatisfaction of all her fellow servants.PART II.Leper’s landlady became very harsh tohis master, and very often abused himexceedingly sore with her tongue andhands, and always called upon him for ’more money, and to have all the moneyIn her keeping, which Leper was sorry{for. It so happened on a day that thetailor had got a drubbing both withjtongue and tongs, that he pouched histhimble, and was going to make a queenof her; when she saw that, she criedout, 0 ! will you leave a poor tender dy¬ing woman. But Leper, knowing thecause of her ill nature better than his(master did, advised him to take her, ona fine day, about a mile out of the town,and give her a walk, and he would stayi,at home and study a remedy for her dis-Iprder—Away they both went, but as•she was complaining for want of health,land that she was very weak, she cried(frequently out, O ! ’tis a crying sin toLake a woman in my condition out o’erif he door. During their absence, LeperE^oes and searches her bed, and belowhe bolster he gets a bottle of rare whisky,f which he takes a hearty pull, andhen pisses in it to make it up, gets aalfpenny worth of snuff, and puts it[ n also, shakes all together, and so setst in its place again—Home they came,16and she was exceedingly distressed as a |woman could be, and cried out, it was a jhorrid thing to take her out of the jhouse. The tailor, seeing her so bad, |thought she would have died, ran as »fast as he could for a dram, but she, in iher hypocrisy, pretended she could not jtake it, and called on him to help her to )bed, into which he lays her. He was notwell gone when she fell to her bottle,taking two or three hearty gluts, thenshe roars out ‘ Murder, I’m poisoned,I’m poisoned.’—Booking and purging :began, and the neighbours were calledin; she leaves^her blood upon poor Le¬per, andtells how such an honest womanbrought her ae bottle as another wasdone, and the murdering loon had sto¬len it, and put inabottleof poison insteadof it. Leper took to his heels, but was 1pursued and carried before a justice of 1the peace, where he told all he had done, j!which made the justice laugh heartilyat the joke, and the tailor’s wife waswell purged from her feigned sickness,laziness, and cursed ill nature; for al-17fays when she began to curl her noseor the future, the tailor had no moreio say, but, ‘ Maggy, mind the bottle.’Leper was working with a master tai¬lor in Glasgow, who hungered his men,nd one morning, just when breakfasti7as set on the table, in comes a gentle¬man to try on a suit of clothes; the mas¬er being obliged to rise, desired the ladsfo say the grace themselves ; every oneefused it, and put it to his neighbour,ill Leper undertook it, and said, withLn audible voice, that the stranger gen-leman might overhear him, as follows :Och, hoch ! we are a parcel of poor)eastly bodies, and we are as beastlyguided, if we do not work we get noth-Ijng to eat, yet we are always eatingand fretting, fidging and half starvingIs like to be our fortune ; scartings andScrapings are the most of our mouth-;u|f : we would fain thank thee for ouraillness, if it were so, but the rest ofmur benefactors are not worthy the ac-i mowledging ;—hech hey. Amen.’ Tiregentleman laughed till his sides were18like to burst, and gave Leper half-acrown to drink.Leper was not long done with his apprenticeship till he set up for himselnand got a journeyman and an apprenitice; was coming into very good biis|'iness, and, had lie restrained his roguislrtricks, he might have done very wellHe and his lads being employed to wort bin a farmer’s house where the housewifewas a great miser, and not very clean 1ly in making meat, and sneevelecthrough her nosegreatly when she spokeIn the morning, when she went to make 1their pottage, she made a fashion o twashing the pot, which to appearanceseemed to him to have been amongst1the first that had been made; then she -set it before the fire till she went to thefwell, in which time Leper, looking intclit, sees two great holes in the bottomstopped with clouts, he takes up hisgoose.iand holds itashighashishead, thenletsitdrop into thepot, whichknockedout thebottom of it; presently in comes the wifewith the water, and poursit into thepot.19hich set the fireside all in a dam, forall as she poured in it ran out; the wifejeing short-sighted, or what they callSind blind, looks into the pot, holds uppth her hands, and cries, ‘ Losh pre-prve me, sirs ; for the grip between thewa holes is broken —says Leper, thelot was old enough, but do you not ken(jhat tailor’s pottage is heavier than oth-:r men’s. Indeed, lad, I believe it, but>ihey say ye’re a warlock ; it’s Wednes-„ ay all the world over, and a waefu’ Wed¬nesday to me indeed; my pot mightae served me this fifty year, a sae wadt e’en.This sport diverted Leper and his ladsihroughthe day; and aftersupper, know-ng he was to get some dirty bed, as|he cows and the people lived all in oneapartment, he chose rather to go home ;tj)d knowing the moon was to rise attle after midnight, he sat along by theire, told them many a fine story toIrive the time, and bade the wife makehe bed, to see how it might be : to savepandle, she made it in the dark, directly20on the floor, behind where they sat, shaking down two bottles of straw; a calAvhich chanced to be lying on that placeand which the wife did not notice, walcovered with the straw, and the belclothes spread over it. The most c|the family being in bed, the wife tolnthem to go to bed also; but Leper, knowiing of the calf, said, I’ll make my betlcome to me, on which the wife begaito pray for herself and all that was ithe house ; so up he gets his el wand1and gives a stroke on the bed, wbiclcaused the brute to rise, and not seeingwhere to go, it fell a crying, and turner!round, which set the whole house a roar¬ing out murder in their own tongueThe goodwife ran to the bed above thefegoodman, and the whole family driedout, not knowing what it was; but Le¬per and his two lads whipt off’ the blank¬ets, and the brute ran in among the reslunperceived; then Leper lighted a can¬dle, and all of them got out of bed, paid 'Leper for his work, and more if he pleas-:ed, and begged him to go away, andike the devil with him. So home he^ent, but never was employed by thatdfe any more.Leper had a deal of the best customers, both inwn and country; so one time hehad occasion to|o to the parish of Inchinan to make a wedding-iSuit for a gentleman. After they were finished, hesked dl ink-money to his lads, which the gentie-ips.n refused. Leper resolved to be even with him ;o he goes up to the hay-loft, where the groomlept, and takes his stockings, breeches, and jacket,ews them altogether, and stuffs them full of hay,hakes a head, putsa rope about the neck, and hangst on a tree opposite to the laird’s window; thenroes to the laird, and tells him that his groom hadhanged himself, and that if he would open hisindow, he would see him hanging; the laird,truck with astonishment, knew not what to do.eper advised him to bury him privately. Theaird said he had not a servant he could trust, so>egged of Leper to do it. Leper refuses, till theaird promised him. a load of meal; then Leper:>u!ls the hay out of the groom’s clothes, goes andlets his load of meal, and sends it to Glasgow,t hen goes to the groom, and says hastily, ‘ Lad,hy master is wanting thee,’ so the lad runs in aaste to see what his master wanted; theird no sooner saw him opening the door, thanlecry’dout, ‘Avoid thee, Satan; avoid thee, Satan;he lad says, ‘ What’s the matter, sir? What’s the| natter ?’ ‘ Did not you hang yourself this mor-dng ?’ ‘ Lord forbid, said the lad.. The laird22says, if thou be an earthly creature, takard and drink,’ which he did. Thenhis master, ‘ Leper called me up, and sated me in all haste.’ ‘ Ho, hos saysfind out the story now; if I had Leper 1my sword through him.’ But Leperwas away for Glasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads their Sunday [supper, which obliged him to stay from the kaliin the afternoon, he having neither wife nor sevant maid ; so one Sunday afternoon, as he w:|cooking his pot, John Muckle Cheek and Jam«Puff and Blaw, two civileers, having more zeithan knowledge, came upon him, and said, what ithe matter, sir, you go not to the kirk ? Leper re Iplied, I am reading my hook, and cooking my powhich I think is a work of necessity. Then saythe one to the other, ‘ Don’t answer that graceles i[,lfellow, we’il make him appear before his better?so they took the kail pot, and puts a staff throngthe bools, and bears it to the clerk’s chamberLeper, who was never at a loss for invention, goeto the Principal of the college’s house, nohod'being at home but a lass roasting a leg of muttonLeper says. My dear, will you go and bring me ;pint of ale, and I’ll turn the spit till you conufiiback. The lass was no sooner gone, than he runs a|jway with the leg of mutton, which served his ladjami him for their supper. When the Principal tcame home, he was neither to baud nor to bind hrwas so angry; so on Monday he goes and makes ■complaint to the Lord Provost, who sends two offi¬cers for Leper, who came immediately.- MyLord asked him how he dared to take away thee that tanl!says heid you withe laird,[ would rifbefore th23Frincipal'smuttonP LeperrepHed, ‘How cameyourtiviJeers to take away my kail pot ? I’m sure thereis less sin in making a pot full of kail, than roast¬ing a leg of mutton, law makers should not be lawbreakers, so I demand justice on the civileers !’The provost asked him what justice he would have ?says he, Make them carry the pot back again ; andto the Principal, a leg of mutton won’t make himand me fall out; so they were forced to carry thepot back, and Leper caused the boys to huzza af¬ter them to their disgrace.There was a barber who always plagued Leper,and called him prick-the-lousa Leper resolved tobe even with hint, so he goes and buys three sheepheads, and sends for the barber, and told him thatthere were three fine Southland gentlemen just-come to his house, who much wanted to be shav¬ed, and he assured him he would receive sixpencefor each one of them;—this good news mane theshaver send for a dram. Leper was still praisingthem for quiet good natured gentlemen, so Lepertakes him to the bed where the sheep-heads laycovered, and desired him to awaken them, for theywould not be angry, or say an ill word to him ;the barber lifts the covering, and sees the sheep-heads, runs out cursing and swearing, and Lepercrying after him, sheep-head barber.The barber resolved to be revenged on Leper,so when he was shaving Mess John, he tells himthat Leper was the drunkenest fellow in his pa¬rish: so Mess John warns him to the session.Leper comes, and says. What do you want with me,sir? Come away, Leper, says Mess John, 1 heara bad report of you ; Me sir, I am sure they were24not my friends that told you that.—4 Indeed, I am |informed you are a drunkard.’—< I a dnyikard,—You have not a soberer man in your parish. Stopsir, I will tell you how I lead my life,—in themorning I take a choppin of ale and a bit of bread;that I call my morning; for breakfast I generallytake a herring and a choppin of ale, for I cannotsup brose like my lads; the herring makes me dry,so at eleven hours, I take a pint, and sometimesthree choppins: at supper I take a bit of breadand cheese, and a pint, and so go to bed ’ MessJohn says, ‘ It’sextravagant, sir, it’s excessive drink¬ing, I allow you the one half of it for a quarterof a year.’ Says Leper, ‘ I’ll try it, sir, and comeback and tell you. At the end of the quarter hedraws out his account, and goes to Mess John,who was sitting with the elders in thesession house,and says, ‘ Sir, I have a demand on you 4 On mesir?' ‘ Yes, on you, sir; Don’t you remember youallowed me so much drink for a quarter of a year,and I want the money.’ ‘ Am I to pay your reckon¬ing, Sir.’ ‘ You allowed it, and if you won’t pay it,I’ll take you before the Provost.’ The elders ad¬vised him to pay it, or he would be affronted ; soLeper got the money. When he was at the door,he says, ‘ Sir, will you stand another quarter ? (3ftaway, says Mess John,er says, I am sure youpence to your penny.and don t trouble me. Lep-may, for I am always two-FINIS