ENTERTAININGHISTORYOFJOHN CHEAPThe Chapman ;CONTAININGALove a Hundred Merry Exploits done by bimind his fellow traveller and companion, DroulhyTom, a slicked shaver.IN THREE PARTS’HISTORYOKJOHJV CHEAP*PART I.The following Relation is taken from his ownmouth veibatim.JOHN CHEAP, the chapman, was a comical,short, thick fellow, with a broad face and a longnose ; both lame and lazy, and something lecher¬ous among the lasses. He chose rather to sitidle than work at any time, as he was a hater ofhard labour. No man needed offer him cheeseand bread after he cursed he would not have it;for he would blush at bread and milk when hun¬gry, as a beggar doth at a bawbee. He got thename of John Cheap, the Chapman, by sellingtwenty needles for a penny, and twa leather lacesfor a farthing.I was born at the Hottom, near the Habert-choy Mill. My father was a^Scotch Highland¬er, and my mother a York-shire Wench, whichcauses me to be of a mongrel kind ; I made my¬self a chapman when very young, in hopes ofbeing rich when I became old.My first journey was through Old Kilpatrick,I got no meat nor money until the evening I be-1gau to ask tor lodging, then every wife to get meaway would either give me a cogful of kail, or apiece of cake. Well says I to myself, if this bethe way, I shall begin in the morning to ask forlodging, or any time when I am hungry. ThusI continued going from house to house, until mybelly was like to burst, and my pockets couldhold no more; at last I came to a farmer’s house,but thinking it not dark enough to prevail forlodging, I sat down upon a stone at the end of thehouse, till day light would go away; and as Iwras getting up to go into the house, out comesthe goodwife, and sat down at the end of thestone. I being at the other, there she began tolet off her water with full force, which I borewith very modestly, till near an end; then shemade the wind follow with such force, as made,as I thought the very stone I leaned upon tomove, which made me burst out into laughter ;then up gets the wife and runs for it; I followedhard after into the house, and as I entered thedoor, 1 heard thegoodman saying, Ay, ay, good-wife, what’s the haste, you run sae fast.Mo more passed, until I addressed the good-man for quarters; which he answered, ‘indeedlad, we hae nae beds but three, my wife and Iourselves twa, and the twa bits o’ little anes,Willy and Jenny lie in ane; the twa lads, ourtwa servant men, Willy Black and Tom I’Ve, lie5in anither; auid Maggs nny mit her, ami the lassJean Tirrem lie thegkher, and that tills thema’.’ O but, says I, gooaman, there is some olthem fuller than others, you may let me lie withyour mither and the lass; I shall lie heads andthraws wi’ th.em, and keep on my breeks. Agood keep me, quo’ the lass frae a’ temptationsto sin, although thou he but a callan, heth I’llrather lie wi’ Sannoek Garnor. Hout awa, quo,the auld wife, the poor lad may lie an a bottle o’straw beyond the fire. No, no, cries the goo-it-wife, he’s no be here the night, or 1’se no be here.Dear good wife, said l, what ails sou at me! Ifyou will not let me stay, you’ll not hinder me togo where I please. Ay, ay, said she, gae whereyou like; then 1 got in beyond the (ire, besidethe good man. Now, said I gooduife, 1 like tobe here. A d—1 be here, and ye be here thenight, said she. Ho, he, said I. but I’m heretirst and first coined, first served, goodwife; butif the ill thief be a friend of vours, you’ll line roomfor him too. Ye thief-like widdifu* said she, areye evening me to be sib to the foul thief; tis weeikend I am corn’d o’ gude honest folks. It maybe so, goodwife, said I, hut ye look ratlier theother way, when you would lodge the devil inyour house, and ea’ out a poor chapman to die,such a stormy night as this. What, do ye say,says she, there wasna a bonnier night since win-ter came in than tills ? O good wife, what are je^saying, do ye no mind when you and I was atthe east end of the house, such a noise of windand water was then. A wae worth the filthybody, said she, is not that in every part ? What,said the goodrnan ; I wat weel there was nae rainwhen I came in. The wife then pushes me out,and bolted the door behind me. Well, said I,but I shall be through between thy mouth andthy nose ere the morn. It being now so dark,and I a stranger, could see no place to go to,went into the corn yard, but finding no loosestraw, I fell a drawing one of their stacks, sheafby sheaf, until I pulled out a threave or two,and got into the hole myself, where 1 lay as warmas a pye. The goodman, on the morning, per¬ceiving the heap of corn sheaves, came runningto carry it away, and stop the hole in the stackwherein I lay with some of the sheaves, so withthe steiirhlin£ of the straw, and him talking toothers, cursing the thieves who had done it, swear¬ing they had stole six sheaves of it; I then skip¬ped out of the bole, ho, ho, said I, goodman,you’re not to bury me alive in your stack : he thenbegan to chide me, vowing to keep my pack forthe damage I had done; whereupon I took hisservants witnesses he had robbed me; when hear¬ing me urge him so, he gave me my pack again,IIand off I came to the next house, and told thewhole of the story.After this I travelled up by the water of Clyde,near the foot of Tintock hill, where I met with asweet companion, who was an older traveller thanI, and he gave me some information how to blowthe goodwife, and sleek the goodman ; with himI kept company for two months ; and as we travel¬led down Tweed towards the border, we beingboth hungry, and could get nothing to buy forthe belly, w7e came unto a wife who had beenkirning, but she would give us nothing, nor sellso much as one halfpenny worth of her sour milk :Na, na, said she, I’ll neither sell butter, breadnor milk, ’tis a’ little enough to sair my ain family ;ye that’s chapman may drink water, ye dinnawork sair. Ay, but goodwife, said I, I havebeen at Temple-bar, where I was sworn ne’er todrink water if I could get better. What do yesay, said she, about Temple-bar! a town just a-bout twa three miles and a bittock frae this; athief ane was to swear you there, an’ it wasnaauld Willy Miller the cobbler the ill thief, a nitherminister nor a magistrate ever was in it a’. O but,says the other lad, the Temple-bar he means byis at London. Yea, yea, lad, an’ ye be com’dfrae Lunun ye’re little worth. London, said he,is but at home to the place he comes from. Adear man, quoth she, and where in the warl’ comes8hefrae ? All the way from Italy, where the Popeof Rome dwells, says he. A sweet be wi‘ us,quoth she, for the fouks there awa is a’ witchesand warlocks, deils, brownies, and fairies. WellI wat that’s true, said I, and that thou shaltknow, thou hard hearted w retch, who w ould havepeople to starve, or provoke them to steal. Withthat I rose, lifts twa or three long straws, andcasting knots on them, into the byre I went, andthrows a knotted straw on every cow’s stake, say¬ing, thy days shall not be long. The wife fol¬lowed, wringing her hands, earnestly praying torherself and all that was hers. I then came outthe door, and lifted a stone, and threw it overthe house, muttering some words, which I knewnot myself, and concluded with these words;thou monster, Diable, brother to Beelzebub, godof Ekron, take this wife’s kirn, butter, and milk,sap and substance, without and within, so thatshe may die in misery, as she would have othersto live.’The wife hearing the aforesaid sentence, clapther hands; and called out another old woman asfoolish as herself, who came crying after us tocome back; back we went, where she made useat heartily of butter and cheese ; and earnestlypleaded with me to go and lift my cantrips, whichI did, upon her promising never to deny a hun¬gry traveller meat nor drink, whether they had9money to pay for’t or not; and never to serve thepoor with the old proverb, “ Go home to your ownparish,” but gave them less or more as you seethem in need. This she faithfully promised todo while she lived, and with milk we drank tothe cow’s good health and her own, not forgettingher husband’s and the bull’s, as the one was good-man of the house, and the other of the byre ; andaway we came in all haste, lest some of a moreunderstanding nature should come to hear of it,and follow after us-In a few days thereafter we came to an ale¬house in a muir far distant from any other, it be¬ing a sore day of wind and rain, we could nottravel, but were obliged to stay there : and thehouse being very throng, we could get no bedsbut the servant lass’s, which we were to have fora penny worth of pins and needles, and she wasto lie with her master and mistress. But as wewere going to bed, in comes three Highlanddrovers on their way from England ; the land¬lord told them that the beds were all taken upbut one, that two chapmen were to lie in : one ofthem swore his broad sword should fail him if achapman lay there that night. They took ourbed and made us sit by the fire all night; I puton a great many peats, and when the droverswere fast asleep I put on a big brass pan full ofwater and boiled their brogs therein for the spaceJOof half an hour, then lays them as they were,every pair by themselves; so when they rose,every one began to chide another, saying, “ Hup,pup, ye spewing a brogfor not one of themwould serve a child ten years old, being so boil¬ed in. The landlord persuaded them that theirfeet were swelled with the hard travelling, beingso wet the last night, and they would go on wellenough if they had travelled a mile or two. Nowthe Highlandmen laughed at me the night beforewhen they lay down in the bed 1 was to have;but I laughed as much to see them trot away inthe morning with boiled brogues in their hands.PART II.We again came to a place near Sutry-hill,where the ale was good, and very civil usage,and our drouth being very great, the more wedrank the better we loved it. Here we fell incompany with a Quack Doctor, who bragged uswith bottle about for two days and two nights ;only when one fell drunk, we pushed and prick¬ed him up with a big pin to keep him from sleep¬ing ; he bought of our hair, and we of his drugs,—he having as much knowledge of the one as wehad of the other; only I was sure I had as muchas would set a whole parish to the midden ormug all at once; but the profit, though all tocome, went to the landlady to make up the lossof having the lime pished off the door cheeks.But at last our money ran short, and the land¬lady had no chalk or faith to credit us, seeing byour coats, courage, and conduct, that we wouldlittle mind performance against the day of pay¬ment ; so that we began to turn sober and wisebehind the hand, and every one of us to seek sup¬ply from another; and then we collected all themoney we had amongst us on the table, it wasbut four pence halfpenny, which we lovingly di¬vided among us, being only three bawbees a-piece ; and as drouthy Tom’s stock and mine wasconjunct, we gave the Quack again his sh—ngstuff and his stinking mugs, and he gave us ourc5 O 7 Ovided betwixt us, the whole of it only came toeighteen shillings and sixpence prime cost, andi so we parted, I went for East Lothian and Tomi for the West; but my sorting of goods being un-| suitable for the country, I got little or no moneyI next day ; and it being Saturday, I prevailed toget staying in a great farmer’s house, about twomiles from Haddington ; they were all at supperwhen I came in ; I was ordered to go round theservants and collect a soup out of every cog, whichr was sufficient to have served three men : the good-» wife ordered me to be laid in the barn all night,! but the bully-faced goodman swore he had too1-2much stuff in it to venture me there; the good-wilV, said I should not lie in flic house, for Iwould be o'er near the lasses’ bed ; then the ladsswore I would not go with them, for I was a for-jesket like fellow, and who kens whether I washonest or not; he may fill his wallet wi’ our elaesand gang his wa’ or day light. At last I wasconducted out to the swine’s stye, to sleep withan old sow and seven pigs, and there I lay fortwo nights. Now I began to reflect on the sourfruits of drinking, and own all the misery just thatwas come upon me. In the night the young pigscame grunt ing about me very kindly, thinking Iwas some friend of their mother's come to visitthem; they gave me but little rest, always com¬ing kissing me with their cold noses, which caus¬ed me to beat tbem off with my staff, w hich madethem to make a terrible noise, so that the old mo¬ther came up to argne the matter, running uponme with open month, but I gave her such a routover her long snout, as caused her to roar outmurder in her own language, and alarmed theservants, vrlio came to see what was I lie matter.I told them their old sow was going to swallowme up alive, bid them go and bring her meat,which they did, and the hrutu became peaceable.On the Sabbath morning 1 came into thehouse, the good man asked me it 1 could shaveany: yes, said 1, but never did on the sabbath13day, I fancy, said he, you are some WestlandWhig? Sir, said I, you may suppose me to bewhat you think proper to-day, but ^'esternighyou Hied me like a Tory, when you sent me intothe sty to lie in your sow’s oxter, who is a fi^etcompanion for a devil than any human creature;the most abominable brute upon the earth, saidI, who was forbidden to be eaten under the law,and cursed under the gospel. Be they cursed orbe they blessed, said he, I wish I had anew ofthem : but an’ ye will not take aff my beard, ye’seget nae meat here the day ; then said I, if ye willnot give me meat and drink for money, until thesabbath be past, I’ll take on my waller, and goalong with you to the kirk, and tell your minis¬ter how you used me as a hog. No, said thegoodwife, you will not want your crowdle, man.But my heart being full of sorrow and revenge afew of them sufficed me, whereon I passed overthat long day, and at night went to sleep withmy old companions, which was not sound, beingafraid of mistress sow coming to revenge the quar¬rel we had the night before.On the morning 1 went into the house, thegoodman ordered me the pottage pot to lick ; for,says he, :t i-. an old property of chapmen. Well,1 had no sooner began to it, than out came agreat mastiff'dog from below the bed, and gripsme by the breast, then turns me over upon myuback, and takes the pot himself. Ay, ay, said thegoodman, I think your brother pot-licker andyou cannot agree about your breakfast. Well,said I, goodman, you said that pot-licking was achapman's property, but your dog proves the con¬trary. So away I comes, and meeting the good-wife at the door, bade her farewell for ever; butwhat, said I, is your husband’s name? to whichshe answered, John Swine: I was thinking so,said I, he has such dirty fashions; but whetherwas yon his mother or his sister I lay with thesetwo nights ?All that day I travelled the country west fromHaddington, but could get no meat; when asked ifthey had any to sell, they told me they never didsell any bread, and I found, by sad experience,they had none to give for nothing. I came intoa little country village, and went through it all,house after house, and could get neither bread norale to buy. At last I came into a poor weaver’shouse, and asked him if he would lend me a ham¬mer : Yes, said he : what are ye going to do withit? Indeed, said I, I am going to knock out allmy teeth with it, for I can get no bread to buyin all the country, for all the stores and stacksyou have in it. What, said he, was you in theminister’s ? I know not, said I, does he keep analehouse ? O no, said he, he preaches every sun-day : and what does ho preach ? said I, is it toharden your hearts? baud well together? haveno charity ? hate strangers ? hunger the poor ?eat and drink all yourselves? better burst yourhellies than give it to beggars, or let good meatspoil? If your minister be as haughty as hispeople, I’m positive he’ll drive a louse to Londonfor the hide and tallow. Here I bought the' 1 weaver’s dinner for twopence, and then set out! again, keeping my course westward It being nowi night, I came to a farmer’s house south from Dal-I keith ; the goodman being very civil, and desirousi of news, 1 related the whole passages of the twof days and nights by-past, whereat he was greatly» diverted, and said, I was the first he heard of, thati ever that man gave quarters to before, though her| was an elder in the parish. So the goodman andI fell so thick, that he ordered me to be laid ona shake-down bed by the fire, where I lay morei snug than among the swine. Now there wereI three women lying in a bed in the same apart-i ment, and they not minding that I was there,first one of them rose and let her water go belowthe chimney grate, where I had a perfect view ofher bonny thing, as the coal burned so clearelvall the night; and then another rose and did thesame; last of all got up the old matron, as sheappeared to be, like a second handed goodwife,or a whirled o’er maiden, six times overturned,and as she let her dam go, she also, with full force.16when done, let a f—t like the blast of a trumpet,which made the ashes on the hearth stone to flyup like dust about her buttocks, whereat I wasforced to laugh out, which made her to run for it,but to smother the laughter I stapt the blanketsin my mouth ; she went to bed and awakened theother two, saying, O dole! what will I tell you ?yon chapman body has seen a’ our a—ses thenight! Shame fa’ him, said they, for we had naemind he w’as there; I wat weel, says one of them,I’se no rise till he be awa’: but said the old wo¬man, gin he has seen mine, I canna help it, it’sjust like other folk’s, an’ feint a hair I care. Onthe morning the old matron got up first, and or¬dered up the house, then told me to rise now, forchapmen and every body were up; then she ask¬ed me if I had a custom of laughing in my sleep ?Yes, said I, when I see any daft like thing I canlook and laugh at it as well sleeping as waking.A good preserve us, said she ye’r an unco body;but ye needna wait on your porridge time, I’segie you cheese and bread in your pouch ; which1 willingly accepted, and away I came.Then I kept my course west by the foot ofPentland hills, where I got plenty of hair, goodand cheap, besides a great plenty of old brass,which was an excellent article to make my littlepack seem big and weighty. Then I came intoa little country villiage, and goingin by the side17of a house, there was a great big cat sitting in aweaver’s window, beiking hen elfin the sun, andwashing her face with her feet; I gave her a civilknap on the nose, which made her turn back inthrough the window, and the weaver having aplate full of hot pottage in the innerside to cool,poor baudrins ran through the middle of them,burnt her feet, and threw them on the ground ranthrough the house crying fire and murder in herown language, which caused the weary wickedwabster to come to the door, where he attackedme in a furious rage, and I, to avoid- the firstshock, fled to the top of the midden, where, en¬deavouring to give me a kick, I catched him bythe foot, and tumbled him back into the midden-dub, where both his head and shoulders went un¬der dirt and water; but before I could recover myelwand or arms, the wicked wife and her twasonswere upon me in all quarters, the wife hung inmy hair, while the twa sons boxed me both be¬hind and before, and being thus overpowered bynumbers, I was fairly beat by this wicked Webster,his troops being so numerous.On the Saturday night thereafter, I was liketo be badly off for quarters, I travelled until manypeople were going to bed ; but at last I came toa farmer’s house asked what they would buy, nam¬ing twenty fine things which 1 never had, andthen asked for quarters, which they very freelyI-18grantee!, thinking I was some genteel packman,with a rich pack ; and being weary with travelcould take but little supper; being permitted tolie in the spence beside the goodman’s bed, thegoodwit'e being very hard of hearing, she thoughtthat every body was so, for when she went to bed,she cries out A h< w hearie goodman, is nayon abraw moderate chapman we hae here the night,he took just seven soups o’ our sowens, and thatfill’d him fu’; a’ dear Andrew man, turn ye aboutan’ tak my cauld a—se in your warm lunchoch.On the morrow I went to the kirk, with the good-man, and I missed him about the door, went intothe middle of the kirk, but could see no emptyseats but one big firm, w here none sat but onewoman by herself, and so I set myself down be¬side her, not knowing where I was, until sermonwas over, when the minister began to rebuke herfor using her Merry-bit against law or license;and then she began to whinge and yowl like adog, which made me run out cursing, before theminister had given the blessing.PART III.I TRAVELLED then west by Falkirk, bythe foot of the great hills ; and one night after Ihad got lodging in a farmer’s house, there hap¬pened a contest between the goodman and hismother, he being a young man unmarried, as I19luuierstood, and formerly their soweiis had beentoo thin ; so the goodman, being a sworn birly-man of that barony, came to survey the sowensbefore they went on the fire, and actually sworethey were o’er thin ; and she swore by her con¬science they would be thick enough, if ill handsand ill een bade awa frae them. A sweet be here,mither, said he, do you think that I’m a witch ?Witch here, or witch there, said the wife, swear¬ing by her saul, and that was nae banning, shesaid, they’ll be gude substantial meat;—a whatsay you chapman ? Indeed, goodwife, said I, sow¬ens are but saft meat at the best, but, if you makethem thick enough, and put a good lump of but¬ter in them, they’ll do very well for a supper. Itrow sae lad, said she, ye ha’e some sense: so theold woman put on the pot with her sowens, andwent to milk the cows, leaving me to steer; thegoodman, her son, as soon as she went out, tooka great cogful of water, and put it into the potamongst the sowens, and then went out of thehouse and left me alone : I considerin'; what sortof a pish-the-bed supper I was to get if I staidthere, thought it fit to set out, but takes up apitcher of water, and fills up the pot until it wasrunning over, and then takes up my pack, andcomes about a mile farther that night, leaving thehonest woman and her son to sup their waterywitched sowens at their own pleasure.20The next iittle town l came to, and the veryfirst house that I entered, the wife cried out,‘ Plague on your snout, sir, ye filthy blackguardchapman-like b h it ye are, the last time yecame here ye gart our Sandy burn thegude banekame it I gid a saxpence for in Fa’kirk, ay didye, ay, sae did ye een, and said ye wad gie hima muckle clear button to do it.’ Me, said I, Inever had ado with you a’ the days of my life,and do not say that Sandy is mine. A wae worththe body, am I saying ye had ado wi’ me, I wad-na hae ado wi’ the like o’ you, nor I am sure wi'them I never saw. But what about the buttonand the bane kame, goodwife? San nock is nathis the man ? Ay is’t, cried the boy, gie me mybutton, for 1 burnt the kame, and she paid mefor’t. Gae awa, sir, said I, your mother and youare but mocking me. It was either you or anelike you, or some other body. O goodwife, Imind who it is now ; ’twas just ane like me, whenye see the tane ye see the tither; they ca’ himJock Jimbither. A wae worth him, quoth thewife, if I dinna thrapple him for my gude banekame. Now, said I, goodwife, be good, bridle*your passion, and buy a bane kame and colourednapkin, I’ll gie you a whaukin’ penny-worth, willgar you sing in your bed, if I should sell you thetae half and gift you the tither, and gar you payfor every inch o’t sweetly or a’ be done. Ilech,21man, said she, ye’re a hearty fallow, and 1 haeneed o’ a’ these things, but a bane kame I maunhae; for our Sannock’s head is a’ hotchen, and ourJohn’s is little better, for an’ let them alane but| ae eight days, they grow as grit as grossets. Andhere I sold a bane kame and a napkin, for shebelieved such a douse lad as I had no hand inmaking the boy burn the bone comb.I The next house I came into, there was a very1 little tailor sitting on a table, like a t—d on atrencher, with his legs plet over other, made meimagine he was a sucking three-footed tailor; firstI I sold him a thimble, and then he wanted needlesi which I showed him, one paper after another; hei looked their eyes and trying their nibs in his sleeve,i dropt the ones he thought proper on the ground^between his feet, where he sat in a dark corners near the fire, thinking I did not perceive him. Oflsaid he them needles of yours are not good, man,I’ll not buy any of them. I do not think yousaeed, said I, taking them out of his hand, andfights a candle that was standing near by ; come,laid I, sit about, you thieving dog, till I gatheriip my needles, then gathers up ten of them.I Come, said he, I’ll buy twa penny worth ofphem frae ye, I hae troubled you sae muckle ; no,juud I, you lousied dog, I’ll sell you none, if there’sj^ny on the ground, seek them up and stap themt a a beast’s a—se ; but if ye were a man, I wouldburn you in tke fire, though it be in your ownhouse; but as you are a poor tailor, and neithera man nor a boy, I’ll do nothing but expose youfor what you are. O dear honest chapman, criedhis wife, ye maunna do that, and I’se gie youcheese and bread. No, no, you thieves, I’m fornothing but vengeance; no bribes for such. Soas I was lifting up my pack, there was a prettyblack cat which I spread my napkin over, tookthe lour corners in my hand, carrying her as a ;bundle, until I came about the middle of the town, ithen provoking the dogs to an engagement with !me, so that there came upon me four or five collies,then I threw the poor tailor’s cat in the midst ofthem, and a terrible battle ensued for some time,and baudrins had certainly died in the field, hadI not interposed and got her oif mortally wound¬ed. The people who saw the battle alarmed theta’lor, and he sallied out like a great champion,with his elwand in his hand. Go back, said I,you lousie dog, or I’ll tell about the needles; atwhich word he turned about. I travelled downthe side of a water called Avon; and as I w’ascoming past a mill-dam, there was a big clownishfellow lifting a pitcher of water out of the dam, sohe dipt it full and set it down on the ground,staring at me he rumbled in himself out of sighto’er head and ears, and as soon as he got out, Isaid,— Yo ho, friend, did you get the fish ? What23an a lish, ye b h ? O, said I, I thought youhad seen a fish, when you jumped in to make itjump out. W hat a d 1, sir, are you mockingme ?—runs round his pitcher, and gives me a kickon the a—e, so that I tell designedly on his pitch¬er, and it tumbled down the bank and went inpieces: his master and another man looking andlaughing at us, the poor fellow complained of meto him, but got no satisftction.The same evening as I was going towards thetown of Linlithgow, I met an old crabbed fellowriding upon an old glaid mare, which he alwajswas thrashing upon with his stick. Goode’en toyou, goodman, said I, are you going to the bullwi’ your mare ? What do you say sir? they gangto the bull wi' a cow, you brute. O yes, good-man, you are right, said, I; but what do they ca’the he-be ist that rides on the mare’s back ? Theyea’d a cusser, sir: a well then, goode’en to you,master cusser. He rides a little bit, then turnsback in a rage, sa_\ ing, I say, sir, your last wordsare waur than your first: he comes then to rideme down, but I struck his beast on the face, andin a short turn about it fell, yet, or I could getmy pack to the ground, he cut me on the headat the first stroke; I then getting clear of thepack, played it away for some time, till by blowson the face, I made him bleed at both mouth andaose; then he cried out, Chapman, we are baith21datt, for we’ll kill oursells and mak naething o't;we had better ’gree: with all my heart, said I;and what will you buy ? nothing but a pair ofbeard shears, said he, and give me them cheap;so I sold him a pair of B. shears, tor three half¬pence, and give him a needle, then parted goodfriends after the battle was over.So I went to Linlithgow that night, where Imet with Drouthy Tom, my sweet and dearcompanion, and here we held a most terrible en¬counter with the tippenny for twa nights and aday ; and then we set out for Fife, on the hair or¬der, by the way of Torryburn and Culross; andcame up to a parcel of women washing by a wa¬ter-side, I buys one of their hair: the time I wascutting it off, Tom fell a courting and kissingand clapping one of them, what happened I knownot, but she cried out, Ye mislear’d filthy fallow,ye put your hand atween my feet. Daft jadCjcanna ye baud your tongue when it’s your ainshame that ye speak. Filthy body, the lastchapman that kissed me had a horse pack, buthe 11 hae naething in his Pack but auld breeks,hare skins, mauken skins, or ony trash that fillsthe bay; and bears bouk, and yet he wad kiss andhandle me! I was made for a better fallow.FISH.