DREAMS AND APPARITIONS.CONTAININGTIBBY HYSLOPS'DREAM AND THE SEQUEL.PART FIRST.• NEWTGN-STEWART:Published and sold Wholesale and Retail, byJ- M‘Nairn.s - <-*V :v■■DREAMS AND APPARITIONS^Containing Tibby TTyslop's Dream, amithe Sequel.In the year 1827, when on a jaunt throughthe valleys of Nith and Annan, I learn¬ed the following story on the spot wherethe incidents occurred, and even went upand visited all those connected with it, sothat there is no doubt with regard ta itsauthenticity.In a wee cottage called Know-back, onthe large farm of Drumlochie, lived TibbyHyslop, a respectable spinster, about theage of forty I thought when I saw her, butof course, not so old when the first incidentsoccurred which this singular prophetictale relates. Tibbie was represented to meas a good and sincere Christian, not inname and profession only, but in word andin deed ; and I believe I may add, in heartand in soul. Nevertheless, there was some¬thing in her manner and deportment dif¬ferent from other people—a sort of inno-*cent simplicity, bordering on silliness, to¬gether with an instebility of thought, thatin the eyes of many, approached to ab¬straction.But then Tibby could repeat the hook ofthe Evangelist Luke by heart, and manyfavourite chapters both of the Old and NewTestaments ; while there was scarcely rme"in the whole country who was so thoroughlyacquainted with those Books from begin¬ning to end ; for, though si'e had read aportion every day for forty years, she hadnever peruyyd any other books hut theScriptures. They werejher woefodgy bqoksand. her'Sunday books, her books ■of ,amu?e-«iv®t,.f-ahd: books or..d<?'Tovicn, Yfjtfoid -toGftd that all our hretiu;c.n,-aiJi,d sifters (•ftbeliuigan race—the poor an^ con.foi-tless, jpswell as the great-and wire, knew p.s-,wellhow to estimate these hooks, as .TilhyJiyrlqp did,!.Tibby’s lurto.iy is shortly tins- Hermptkeivwao marsh d tc a sei-yaut of a re¬cruiting party. The ye'ar,-IbUpjyipg. he. yeasobliged; h>.go to Ireland* assd hern tia steei obody. knew yshere; . hut.neither .he norhis wife.appeared again,in Scotland. Yhips etheir departrusy, however, they lei’t Th-by,then. a .helpless, babe, with her grasrdpgqt pf r,M;ho lived in a harlot scniyy.hciy aboutuTinwsdd-.jifiitd With ti-eX,;.: . y./asfit4 learned tos-eau the iiibk, dfo'd §; Y;'Td)wnd-word; at all, kindsyif puu-gtsyjfo ifg: ,towh iyli vv:oiritrr are geeu? tpfi ^., J, a.jjo,Hprveywas her,gs'andi;nydneii's itame. a rvegnai^ ^:enscarcely past her prime, ccrtaii ly. y.s.thm\iiiuy:'- v^ars of ago, L-ntynjn • ekwr^ster,»*Mied: Douglas hs^td al^ci j .with bcr> W^,ymn these^ two-v'csc.il)e'ear:Iyye,ai,,s.ol ^ in byHy^Iop spent in poverty, contentment antidevotion.At the age'of eighteen, Tibby was hiredat the Ctuuilernas fair, for a great wage, tobe byre-woiRtin to Mr OiiBe-ft Forret, thenfarmer at Druailo'che. Tibby had then ac-quired a great deal of her mother’s danger¬ous bloom—dangerous when attached topoverty, and so' much simplicity of heart;and when she came home and told what shehad done, her mother and aunty, as she al¬ways denominated the two, marvelled muchat the extravagant conditions, and began toexpress some fears regarding her new ma¬ster’s designs, till Tibby put them all to ret-tby the following piece of Simply informa¬tion.“ Dear, ye ken, ye needna be feared thatMr Forret has ony design o’ courting me,for, dear, ye ken, he has a wife already, andfive bonny bairns ; and be’ll never be saedaft as fa’ on and court anither ane. I’sewarrant he finds ane enow for him, honestman 1 ”u Oh, then, you are safe enough, since heis a married man, my bairn,” said Jane.“ A v, but wba on Mdnandy’a mom has seenThe tferse and the dew-cup arrowing green,Where a married man and a maid had been ?”said old aunty Douglas ; but she spoke al¬ways in riddles and mysteries, and therewas no more of it. But the truth was, that6Mr Forret was notorious in his neighbour¬hood for the debauching young and prettygirls, and was known in Dumfries marketby the name of Gibby Gledger, from thecircumstance of his being always lookingslyly after them; and perceiving Tib-by so comely, and at the same time sosimplf, he judged her a fine prey, hired herat nearly double wages, and moreover gaveher a crown as arle-money.So home Tibby went to her service, andbeing aipliable, diligent creature, she wasbeloved by all about the town, Her masterattended much about the byre, commend¬ed her for her neatness, and when ever aquiet opportunity offered, would pat herrosey cheek, and say kind things. Tibbytook all these in good part, judging themtokens of approbation of her good servicesand was proud of them ; and if he once ortwice whispered a place and an hour of as¬signation, she took it tor a joke, and paidno farther attention to it. Mr Forret wasmuch from home, kept much company, andhad few opportunities of meeting with hispretty dairymaid privatdy,In short a whole year passed over with¬out the worthy farmer having accomplishedhis cherishedpurposeregarding poor Tibby jstill be was quite convinced that it was amatter which might be accomplished withperfect ease, and would lead toaveryplea-i78ant. diversity in a farmer,s monotonous life.With this laudable prospect, when the/Can¬dlemas fair came round again, he hiredTibby to remain another year, still on theformer high conditions, and moreover le*said toher; “I wish your grandmother amtgrand-aunt would take my pleasant cottageof Know-Back. They should have it for a 4mere trifle, a week’s shearing or so, as longas you remain in my service ; and as it islikely to be a long while before you and Ipart, if I get my will, it would be better tohave them near you, that you' might seethem often, and attend to their wants. 1could give tlfem plenty of work through thewhole year, on the best conditions. Whatthink you of this proposed, Rosy?” a fama-liar name he often called her by.“ O, I’m sure sir, I think ye are the kind- ;jestman that ever the Almighty made. Whata blessing it is when riches open up theheart to acts of charity an’ benevolence!My poor auld mither and aunty will beblithe to grip at the kind offer, for they situnder a hard master yonder, and the Al¬mighty will bestow a blessing on you forthis, sir; and they will gie you their bles¬sing, an’ 1 sail bestow my poor blessing onyou too, sir.”“ Well, I’ll rather have that than all therest. Come, bestow it, then. Nay, 1 see Imust take it, after all.”:SSo-faying iic'ki^oil'hcr. Tibby n'eifborblusiied nor prolferod refusal, because itwas the way tiiat the saints of okl sa-I uted one another; and away she went withthe joyful news do her poor mother andaunty. Now they had of fate found them¬selves quite easy in their circumsianees,owing to the large wages Tihby received,every farthing of which w:as- added to thecommon stock; and though Tib by appear¬ed a little bra wer at the meeting house, itv as her grandmother, who laid it out onher, without any consent on her part. I .amsure said her grandmother, when Tihbytold the story of her master's kindness andattention, “ I am sure it was the kindestintervention o’ Provi(h'neo that ever hap¬pened to poor tilings afore, when ye fell inwi’ that kiml wmrthy man, i’ thd middle o’«i great hiring market, where ye might justas easily hae met .wi’ a knave, or a niggard,or a sinner, wha wad Iiae thought nue-thing o’ working your ruin,—as n i’ tinsnian o’ siekan charity an’ mercy.”“'Ay ; the v/nleat maim hae Ms colldp.An’ the raven mamr iiV.e his }>nrt,An’ the tod will creep through the hethor,For the bonny uiporhetijS heart,”.said old Douglas Hervey, poking in tlie fireall the while with the tongs, and spookingonly as if speaking to heiiseifi—“ Heeh-wowaiiJ lack-a-day! but the times are altered9sair since I first saw the sun ! How are theyaltered kerlin?’ Because the gospel’s turnedlikeagainder, & Sin a fine madam, How d’yedo, sweet Madam sin? Come in by here andbeasharero’ our bedandboard. Hopeye lefta’ friends weel in your cozy hame ? But ontlie titiier baud, ca’ away that dirty weary-some bird ; fling stanes an’ giaur at him.—What is lie ay Imrp,; harp, harping therefor? thraw his neck about. Poor, poorReligion, waes me for her! Slie was firstdrived out o’ the lord’s: oastie into the ba¬ron’s ha’; out o’ the baron’s ha’, into thethe fanner’s bien dwelling ; and at lasrt outo’ that, into the poor cauldrife shiel, wherethere’s nae ither comfort but what shebrings wi’ her. ’“ vVhat has set ye onna. these reflectionsthe day, aunty ?, cried Tib by aloud at herear; for she was half deaf, and had so ma¬ny, tiaunei mutches on, besides a blue nap¬kin, which she always wm’e over them all,that her deafness was nearly com pleateda (together.“Oogii! what’s the lassie saying ?” saidshe, after listening, a good while till thesounds actually reached the interior of herear, “ what’s the young light-head'sayingabout the defections o’ tire day, what kensshe about them ?—oogh ! Let me see yourface, dame, and find your hand, for L hueneither seen the aae, nor felt the tither,.10Shis Tang and mony a day.” Tl.c n fakirher grand-niece by the band, and lo.okii;dose into her face through the spectacles,she added—-“Ay it is a weel-faured sonsyface, very like the mother’s that bore ye ;and hers was as like her mother’s; andthere was never as muekle common senseamong a’ the three, as to keep a brock outo’ the kail-yard. Ye hae an unco good ma¬ster, I hear—oogh! I am glad to hear’t—hoh-oh-oh-oh! verra glad. I hope it willlang continue, this kindness. Poor Tibby }—as lang as the heart disna gang wrong,we maun excuse the head, for it’ll neveronce gang right. I hope they were baithmade for a better world, for nane o’ themwere made for this.”When she got this length, she sat hastilydown, and began her daily and hourly taskof carding wool for her sister’s spinning,abstracting herself from all external con¬siderations.“ I think aunty’s unco parabolical theday,” said Tibby to her grandmother ; whatmakes her that gate?”“ O dear, hinny, she’s ay that gate now.She speaks to naebody but herself,” saidJane. “ But—lowrdy be it spoken—I thinkwhiles there’s ane speaks till her again thatmy een canna see.”“The angels often conversed wi’ goodfolks langsyne,” said Tibby. “ 1 ken o’fcfj bOilnaething that can hinder them to do so stillif they’r sae disposed. But weel wad 1 liketo hear ane o’ tliae preevat apologies, (per¬haps meaning apologues,) for my. auntiehas something in her aboon other earthlycreatures.”“ Ye may hear enow o’ them aince wewar leeving near you again ; there’s aneevery midnight, and another atween day¬light and the sun. It is my wonder she’s notaen for a witch ; for troth, d’ye ken hinny,I’m whiles a wee feared for her myselL—And yet for a that, I ken she’s a goodChristian.”“ Ay that she is—I wish there weremony like her,” said Tibby, and so the di¬alogue closed for the present.Mr Forret sent his earts at the term, andremoved the old people to the cottageof Know-back, free of all charge, like a gen¬tleman as he was, and things went on ex¬ceedingly well. Tibby had a sincere re-Igard for her master ; and as he continuedto speak to her, when alone, in a kind andplayful manner, she had several times ven¬tured to broach religion to him, trying todiscover the state of his soul. * Thenhe would shake his head and look demur inmockery, and repeat some grave becomingwords. Poor Tibby thought be was ablestsed man. Then, when he would snatcha kiss or two, Tibby did not in the12least comprehend the drift of this, but con-A inced in her heart that it could only meansomething holy, and good and kind, shetried not further to reflect, on it, for shecould not; but she blessed him in her heartand was content to remein in her ignoranceof human life.But in a short time his purposes weredivulged in such a manner as to be no moreequivocal. That morning immediately pre¬ceding tbe developcment of bis long cherish¬ed atrocity, Jane Hex vey was awaked at anearly hour by the following unintelligibledialogue in her eider sister’s bed.“ Have ye seen the news o’ the day ker-“ Have ye seen the news o’ the day ? ”“ Ay that 1 hae, on a braid open book,without clasp or seal. Whether will youor the dell win ? ”“ That depends on the citadel. If it standout, a* the powers, o’ hell wiima shake thefortress, ridr sap a 'staii'e o’ its foundation.”“ Ah, the Fortress'is a good and, and agouttd and; but the poor bead captain!—ye'ken what a sweet-lipped, turnip-headitbroscy he is!‘*“ Ay ; am! .the weapons o’ sin arc grownstrang and nowerfu’ now-a-days kerhn.”Ooh ?”“ Sac they say, sagotten a new forge i:she they say. They hae: i’ the the o” hell, made13out o’ despised ordinances. O, lack a-day,'mypoor Trbby Hyslop ! —my innocent, kind,thowless Tibby Hyslop! Now for the todor the moorhen ! ”Jane was frightened at hearing such acolloquy, but particularly at that part of itwhere her darling child was mentioned insuch a way. she sprung from her own bedto that of her sister, and cried in her earwith a loud voice, “ Sister, sister Douglas,what is that you are saying about dur dearbairn ?”“Gogh ? I was saying naething about yourbairn. She is turned intill a spring-gun isshe ? or a man trap rather is it ? i trowlittle whilk o’ them it is, poor stupit crea¬ture. She lies in great jeopardy yonder ;but nane as vet. Gang awa’ to your bed—wow, but I was sound asleep.”“ There’s nuebody can make ought outo’ her but nonsense,” said Jane as she wentto put a few sticks and peat clods on thescarcely living embers. But after the twohad risen from their scanty but: nappy break¬fast, which Douglas had blessed with morefervency than ordinary, she could not setlJeather carding, hut always stopped short, andbegan mumbling, & speaking to herself. Atlength, after a long pause, sis?, looked overher shoulder, and said,—“Jeauie warnaye speaking o’ gauging ower to see out11bairn the day ? Haste thee an’ gang away,then ; and stay nouther to put on cleanbussing, kirtle, nor barrie, else ye may bean antrin meenut or twa owre lang.”Jean made no reply, but, drawing tlieshirt of her gown ot'er her shoulders, sheset out for Drumloehie, a distance of near¬ly a mile ; and as she went by the corner ofthe byre, she weened she heard her bairn’svoice, in great passion or distress, and ranstraight into the byre, crying out, “ What’sthe matter wi’ you, Tibby ? what ails youmy bairn?” but receiving no answer, shethought her voice must have been some¬where outside the house, and slid quietlyfart, looking everywhere, and at length wentdown to the kitchen.Tibby had run a hard risk that hour, notfrom any proffer of riches or finery—thesehad no temptations for her—she could noteven understand the purport or drift ofthem. Bi^t she did escape, however; andk was, perhaps, tier grandmother’s voicethat saved her.Mr Forret, alias Gledging Gibby, hadborne the brunt of incensed kirk-sessionsbefore that time, and also the unlicensedtongues of mothers, roused into vehemanceby the degradation of beloved daughters ;but never in his life did he bear such a re¬buke as he did that day from the tongue ofone he had always viewed as a mere simple¬ton. It was a lesson to him—a warningr ot the most sublime and terrible descrip¬tion, couched in the pure and emphaticlanguage of Scripture. Gibhy cared not aI doit for these things, but found himself foil¬ed, and exposed to his family, and thewhole world, if this fool chose to do it. Hewas, therefore, glad to act a part of deepihypocrisy, pretending, the sincerest contri¬tion, regretting, with tears, his momentary1 derangement, and want of self-control; at-itributing it wholly to the temptations of thei wicked one, and praising poor Tibby to the[skies for saving him in art hour of utterdepravity. He likewise made her a pre-i'sent of a sum of money he had offered herbefore, saying he did not give it to her as ai bribe, but as the reward of honesty, virtue,tand truth, for all of which he had the high-nest regard, and that he would esteem herlithe more for her behaviour that day, as longsas he lived.Poor Tibby readily believed and forgavehim ; and thinking it hard to ruin a repent¬ant sinner in his worldly and family oon-tcerns, she promised never to divulge whathad passed ; and he knowing well the valuei<of her word, was glad at having so escaped.Jane found her grand-daughter terriblyflushed in the countenance, and flurried in16her speech that day, but Jane’s stupid headcould draw no inferences from these, orany thing else. She asked if she was wellenough, and the other saying she was, Janetook i t for granted that she was so, and onlyadded, “ Your crazed auntie would gar mebelieve ye war in some jeopardy, and hur¬ried me away to see you, without givingme leave to change a steek.”' One mayeasily conceive Tibby’s astonishment at ■hearing this, considering the moment atwhich her grandmother arrived. As soonas the latter was gone, she kneeled beforeher Maker, and poured out her soul ingreatful tiianksgiving for her deliverance ;and, in particular, for such a manifert in¬terference of some superior intelligence inher behalf.“ How did ye find our poor bairn theday titty Jane ?:■ was the trial ower afore yewan? or did ye gle a helping hand at rais¬ing the siege ?—Ooogh ? ”“ Whaten siege ? i saw nae siege, norheard tell of ony.”“ The groat siege o’ the eastle o’ Man-soul, that Btmyan speaks about, ye ken.Was it ower? Or is it to try for again?Oh ! ye dinna understand me ! Did ye everunderstand ony thing a’ your’days? Didour bairn no tell ye ony thing ? ”>She taulct me nueUiing but that she.17xras vflry we el.”'“ SheV ae fool, and ye’re another! If Thad been her, I wad lute ola^e*! it baith tokirk & conned ;—to his wi h’s ear, and hisminister’s teetli! I wad hae-gart heaven sab,and hell girn at it! isna the resetter \vaurthan thethief? the cowardly hut eher that con¬ceals the lambs and kills them, t/aur thanthe open fauid-brikker and sheep reiver?. And isha the svveet-Iippit kiss-my-lufe saintvraur than the stduihriglit reprobate ?' Figh,fie! A dish tfsoddeh tunnos1 at the best.Slieh 07eiy vr-uel, is she? Q ^yh ! Red an’rosey like a boiled lobster ? Ay. Hbh, oh,oh, oh'! silly woman, silly woman, Hoh, oh,oh!”In a few weeks Mr Ferret’s behaviourto his simple dairymaid, altered \ ory ma¬terially. He, called lier ho more by the e n¬dearing name of Rosy ; poor idiot was 6ft-ner the term ; and finding he was now safe »••'from acensation, his malevolence towardsher had scarcely any bounds. She madeout her term with difficulty, but he'refusedto pay the stipulated wage, cm pretence ofher incapacity; and as she had by thattime profited well at Ms hand, she tookwhat lie offered, thanked him, and said nomore about it. She was no more hired asa servant, but having at the first taken along lease of the cottage, she continued.18from year to year, working on the farm bythe day, at a very scanty allowance. OldDouglas in a few years grew incapable olany work, through frailty of person, beingconstantly confined to bed, though in mindas energetic and mysterious as ever. Janewrought long, till at length a severe illne.vin lSc2o rendered her unfit to do anythingfurther than oceassionally knit a piece oia stocking; and poor Tibby’s handiworkhad all three to maintain. They had broughther up with care and kindness amid themost pinching poverty, and now, indeed,her filial affection was hardly put to the}>roof; hut it was genuine and knew nchounds. Night and day did she toil for thesustenance ot her aged and feeble relationsand a murmur or complaint never was hear*to drop from her lips. Many a blessing waibestowed on her as they raised their pal¬sied heads to partake of her hard earneepittance ; and many a fervent prayer waspoured out, when none heard but the fa¬ther of the spirits of all flesh.Times grew harder and harder. Thousands yet Jiving remember what a timethat was for the poor, while the meal foiseasons was from four to live shillings astone ,and even sometimes as high as sevenTibby grew fairly incapable of supportingherself and her aged friends. She stintedherself for their sakes, ana that made he19still more incapable ; yet. often with tears in her eyes didshe feed those frail beings, her heart like to melt be¬cause she had no more to give them. There are nopoor-rates in that country. Know-back is quite retired—nobody-went near it, and Tibby complained to non ,but wrought on, and fought away, night and day, insorrow and anxiety, hut still with a humble and thank¬ful heart.In this great strait, Mrs Forret. was the first who be¬gan, unsolicited, to take compassion on the destitutegroup. She could not conceive how they existed onthe poor creature’s earnings. So she went privately to.see them, and when she saw their wretched state, andheard their blessings on their dear child, her heartwas moved to pity, and she determined to assistthem in secret, for her husband was such a cliur',-that publicly she durst not venture to do it. Ac¬cordingly, whenever site had an. opportunity, she made.Tibby come into the kitchen, and get a meal forherself; and often the considerate lady slid a smallloaf, or a little tea and sugar, into her la]), quietly,for the two aged, invalids;—for gentle woman is al¬ways the first to pity, ami the first to relieve.Poor Tibby! how her heart expanded with gtati-on Waving the’Q liule, prascats, for t«er lov*.few- tfe« tsca oM creatures was of so pureaatl -sacmi n sett. as. scarcely to. retain in its e!e-taam»myi$ coav-ntn feeHnw erf humanity. TtareWX* ao principal tH?r^—.they were to her asa ivtrt of her own nature. _ And It was observed?tfef avhenem'she go*-tliese littlo presents, enabling herto give tire aged and infirm a better meal, and one.more suited-'to *heir wasted frames, she had not pa¬tience to walk home to Know-back— she ran al! theway.Trbby nwer went into the kitchen unless the mis'tress desired her, or sent her word by some of the otherday-labourers to come in as she went home ; and one even¬ing having got word in this last way, she went in, andthe lady of the house, with her own hand, presentedher wi:l) a little bowl full of beat potatoes, and somesweet milk, to them. This was all, and one wouldhave thought it was an aliment so humble and plainthat scarcely any person would have grudged it to ahungry dog. However, it so happened that as Tibbywas sitting behind backs enjoying her little savourymeal, Mr Forret chanced to come into the kitchento give orders anent something that had come into21t! e kitchen to give orders' arient' 't!.at' lad•I come into his iklntl; and parce'Mhg 'fibtv. his oldfriend, so comfortably engaged, he, without -peal mg ai word, seized her !>y the neck with one hand, andfoU no* -> ' m.ir c,v, m v: by the, shoKlder wkh - the other, and^ hurrying Lev ortat the back-door into the yard, he flung her withall !iis might, on a dunghill. “ VVlia tine devil bad■jou come into my hosse, and eat up the meat that wasmade for others?” cried he, iit.a demoniac voice, choak..I Vi t? ii- ■fi'// ? .'>■» >;>w OKo t 11 i tv m ■ -iling with rage; and then he swore a terrible oath,I'M'lwhich I do not choose to.set down, that “if hefl.m1‘ouud her again at such .employment, he would xuttiler th oat, and fling her to the dog.-,.”i^fn ^I Poor Tibby was astounded beyond the power of ut-lerance, or. even of rising from the place where he had1 Uuo.wn down, until lifted by two ,of thp servant-! .$ids! who tried to ccmfort her as they suypoi ted lier gaitof he way home; and bitterly did- they blame tlieirI raster, say'ng, it would have been » shame to av:yi inc who iiad tjie feeling^ of a ir.an, to do suyh anyet ; bat as for .their mr.ster, be scarcely had they reelh g$ of a beast. TiUjy never opened i-er .meuthleitner to curse, Liame, nor con,] lain, but went on lie22Iway crying till her heart was like to break.She had no supper for the old famishing panthat night, they had tasted nothing from the time thashe left them in the morning; and as she had ae-|counted herself sure of receiving something from MeForret that night, she had not asked her day's wagefrom the grieve, glad to let a day run up now and tiewhen able to procure a meal in any other honesway. She had nothing to give them that night,whit could she do? She was obliged, with a sore hetfto kiss them and tell them so; and then, as was liecustom, she said a prayer over their couch, and laherself down to sleep, drowned in tears.She had never so much as mentioned Mi Forre|name either to her grandmother or grand-aunt thnight, or by the least insinuation given them toderstaud that he had either used her ill or well ; hjino sooner were they composed to rest, and all tcottage quiet, than old Douglas began abusing lifwith great vehemence and obstreperousness, and Tib!lto her astonishment, heard some of his deeds spoKof with great fam iliarity, which she was sure nevhad been whispered to the ears of flesh; andmore of the same stamps which Tihby had ne»23mentioned before, which, nevertheless, from obviousi circumstances, might have been but too true. But whatshocked her most of all, was the following terrible; prognostication, which she heard repeated three sevaraltimes:—Na, na, I'll no see it, for I'll never see oughtj earthly again beyond the wa’s o’ this cottage, but.i Tibby will live to see it;—ay, ay, she’ll see it.”—“ She’ll see the craws picking his banes at theJback o’ the dyke.”Tibby’s heart grew cauld within her when she heardn this terrible announcement, because, for many yearsi bygone, she had been convinced, from sensible demon¬stration, that old Douglas Harvey had commerce with| some superior intelligence; and after she had heard; the above sentence repeated again and again, she shuti her ears, that she might hear no more; committedt herself once more to the hands of a watchful Creator,and fell into a troubled sleep.The elemental spirits that wave the shadowy tapestryof dreams, were busy at their aerial looms that night inthe cottage of Know-back, bodying forth the desti-j hies of men and woman in brilliant and quick succession.One only of these delineations I sl»all here relate, pra-different voice asked—“ What shall she see.cisely ‘as it're!M«u to liio, fiy' my frie^l theivortl y 't ic i'cyintin of that parh'h to wlVorn Tibhy re¬lated it t?i>‘' very next day. There is'no uouht thatlifT'grSnd dr-jolnted p'ro^pnecy' fortm'd the gtoinnl-■\r«:ijkv • ! I'di he flifvt :fi«f if n!aS\ tfis tvasher dmrm f^r.d it tVfts ' fhr the* f^ke oT feTii^g if'andtiacistg it to its that begin Vfiis ^'ory.o. . • ' .• ; .■ ' *•? » : £i ii ta 0<h tM *! iifil’iEND CE J’AHT TIR-S’r.ivv'sdtiE*:*gjvn>Tetni*ith y&yfitttflr& ^ .I($!.ud l)liU '-'M&^ .a'L-lUega- V• ibsldnot. *■ ofxit is‘1 ■ isjiodj in vend attnw .ainr^ if) sa.■ 'i : 7 • 77rtf l»li etnooi !jif9' ?<‘<i.. .i'dtf l 7. . 7 ; ■ ■ ■ - ■■ 7.n-'7' ‘ll”'. " <’