THEH I S T O R YANDCOMICAL TRANSACTIONSo FLOTHIAN TOMIN SIX PARTS.,,VHEKEIN IS CONTAINEDACOLLECTIONOFROGUISHEX^PLOITS DONE BY HIM BOTH IN'SCOTLAND AND ENGLAND.*:G L A S G O W,PRINTED by J. and M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, i8eo*( 2 ).THECOMICAL TRANSACTIONSo rLOTHIAN TOM.PART I.THIS THOMAS BLACK, vulgarlycalled Lothian Tom, becaufc of thatcountry, was born four miles from Edin-' burgh, his father, being a very wealthy far-mer, gave him good education, which hewas very aukward in receiving, being a ve¬ry wild, crofs, mifchievous boy.When he was about ten years of age, hewas almofl killed by the llroke of a horfe’sfoot, which his father had, who had a trickof kicking at every perfon that came in be¬hind him. But when Tom was got heal.ofthe dreadful wound, whereof many thoughthe would have died j to be even with thehorfe, he gets a clog, or piece of tree whichwas full of wooden pins; fuch a thing as thefhoemakers ufe to foften their leather upon;and with a rope he tied it to the couple-bauk in the liable, dire&Iy oppofite to thehorfe’s tail^gets up on the bauk, and givesit a fwing back, fo that the pikes in the endof it, came with full drive againft the horfe’sarfe, which made him to flingj and theComical Tranfadions of Lothian Tom. 3more he flung and (truck at it, it rebound¬ed back again and (truck him; the battlelafted with great fury for a loAg time, whichwas good diverfion for Torn, until his fa¬ther, hearing fome difturbance in the (table,came in to know the matter, and was fur-prifed, when he faw the poor horfe tanninghis own hide, with his legs all cut andbloody, he cut the rope and the battle wasended, but the poor horfe would never kickat any thing that came behind him after¬wards, but always ran from it.It happened one day that Tom went afifhing, and brought home a few fmall fifh,which his grandmother’s cat fnapt up in thedark: fo Tom, to have juftice of the cat forfo doing, catches her, and puts her into alittle tub, or cog, then fets her a-drift into amill-dam, ordering her to go a filhing forherfelf; then fets out two or three dogs up¬on her, where a mod terrible fea-fight enfu-ed, as ever was feen on frefh water; for, ifany of the dogs aflayed to board her, by fet-ting in over their nofe, badrons came flyingto that quarter, to repulfe him with herclaws; then the veflel was like to be overfetby the weight of herfelf, fo (he had to fleeto the other, and finding the fame there,from thence to the middle, where (lie fatmewing, always turning herfelf about, comb¬ing their nofes with her foot. The old wo¬man, being informed of the dangerous fitu-ation of her dearly beloved cat, came run*4 Comical Tranfadions of Lothian Tom.ning with a long pole to beat off the dogs,and haul her afhore: What now, fays Tom,If you be going to take -part with my ene¬mies, you ihall have part of their reward ;then gives the old woman fuch a pufti, thatfhe tumbled into the dam over head andears, befide her beloved cat, and would un¬doubtedly have pes idled in the water, hadnot one of the people who was there, look¬ing at the diverfion, come to her relief.After this Tom was fent to the fchool, tokeep his hand out of an ill turn: and havingan old canker’d ^crab-witted fellow for hisdominie, they were always at variance, forif Tom had got his whips, which he oftendeferved, he was fare to be revenged uponhis mailer again for it. So Tom perceivinghis mailer had, a clofe-ilool in a little clofetwithin the fchool, where he went and eafedhimfelf when need was : Tom got a penny-worth of gun-powder, and fprinkled it onthe ground direftly beTore the feat, and laida little of it along in a train to the fire-iide,then perceiving when his mailer went intoit, and as he was looiing down his breeches,fat fire to the train, which blew it all abouthis mailer’s bare hips, and fcorched himterribly, befides the fright, for which Tomwas feverely whipt; yet in a little after hebegan to iludy revenge on his mailer.So it happened one day as Tom went in¬to the mailer’s houfe, the wife was {loopinginto a big meal barrel, to bring out fomeComical Tranfaclions of Lothian Tom. 5meal; there he takes her by the feet, andcoups her up into the barrel with her headdown, and her bare back-fide uppermoft;then runs into the fchool, crying, “ O maf-ter! mafter! the de’il’s lookingosut o’ yourmeal-ftand, wi’ a fat face, and a black ill-far’d mouth : yon’s juft Auld Nick if he beliving.” At this the mafter ran with all thefpeed he could to feeVdiat it was, and foundit to be his own wife fpeechlefs, and atmoftfmothered to death, but as fhe could not tellwho did it, Tom'got clear off: yet he wasnot fatisfied without fome more vengeanceon the old fellow ; and knowing his mafterhad a fafhion, when he was going to whipthe boys, if they did not loofe their breech¬es v:illingly, he drew his knife and cut themthro’ the waiftband behind: So Tom goesto a butcher and gets a raw pudding, andfills it with blood and water, and puts itwithin the waiftband of his breeches, thengoes to fchool next day, and as the mafterwas fitting with his back towards the fire,Tom lights a piece of paper, and fets his wigin a low, which burnt for fome time unper¬ceived, until the flame came fizzing about hisears : He firft put out the flames by tramp¬ling on the wig, and being informed thatTom did it, flies to Ifim in a rage, orderinghim to loofe his breeches, but Tom told himhe was never fo mad: Then he drew hisknife, and whips poor Tom over his knee,and with great kicking and ftruggling, cute6 Cornual Tranfacfions of Lothian Tom.the waiftband of his breeches thro’ puddingand all, fo that the blood gufhed out, andTom cried out murder! murder! and downhe fell. The poor Dominie went out of thedoor cryktg and wringing his hands. Wordflew about that Tom was fticket by the Do¬minie, which made the people come runningfrom feveral parts of the country round a-bout, to fee how it was: But fearching hiih,they found only the empty pudding, which•difcovered the fraud: Then two men had toget horfes and ride after the poor Dominie,who had by this time got two or three milesaway, and when he law them coming afterhim, crying to hand and come back again,he ran the fafter, until he could run no more,but fell over on the road, praying them tolet Kim go, for, if he was taken back, hewas fure to be hanged; and would not beperfuaded Tom was alive, until they forcedhim back and he faw him, but he would beTom’s teacher no longer ; fo Tom’s fatherhad to feek another mafter for him.PART II.THERE was a young woman, fervantto Tom’s father, whom Tom had of-'fended by fome of his tricks, and fhe to beup with Tom again, one night fpread a hand¬ful of fhort nettles in his bed, between, thetheets, which flung his legs and thighs foComical Tranfadions of Lothian Tom. 7much, that he was obliged to quit his bedfot fome part of the night; for which he re-folved to be revenged, whenever a prop ropportunity offered. It happened in a fewdays after, that fhe was invited to a wedding,where the dancing asd diverfion inducedher to flay all night; and oh coming homein the morning, her miftrefs fet her to wa(hfome clothes. But fhe being fatigued withher night’s diverfion, and for want of reft,fdl faft afleep with her hands extended in thetub, and ftanding on her feet, with her betiyleaning on the tub; Tom perceiving this,flips her petticoats and fmock over her head,letting the fun fhine on her bare back-fide,which faced the highway. Several peoplepalling by, while fhe continued in this pof-ture, fome of them were diverted, and othersalhamed at the fight. But a poor cadger hadthe misfortune to be coming on the road atthe time, and his horfe taking fright at thisunufual fight, thfew off the creels, and brokethe poor man’s eggs all to fmafh, which foenraged him, that he laflied her buttockswith his whip, in fuch an unmerciful man¬ner, that with the fmatt and fhame together,fhe had not the leaft inclination to fleep forthe remaining part of that day.Tom, being grown up to the years andage of a man, thought himfelf wifer and fly¬er than his father ; and there were i'everalthings about the houfe he liked better thanto work, fo he turned to be a dealer gmongft8 Comical Tranfaftiona of Loihian Tom.the brutes, a cowper of horfes and cows, &c.and even wet ware amongft the brewers andbrandy ihops, until he cowped himfelf to thetoom halter; and then his parents would fup-ply him no more. He knew well, his grana-mother had plenty of money, but fhe wouldgive him none, but the old woman had agood black cow of her own, which Tomwent to the fields one evening, and catches,and takes her into an old wafte houfe, whichftood at a diftanceirom any other, and therehe kept her two or three days, giving hermeat and drink when it was dark at night,and made the old woman believe fomebodyhad fiolen the cow for their winter’s mart,which was grief enough to the old woman,for the lofs of her dearly beloved cow. How¬ever, fhe employs Tom to go to a fair thatwas near by, and buy her another, gives himthree pounds, which Tom accepts of verythankfully, and promifes to buy one as likethe other as poffibly he could get; then hegets a piece of chalk, and brays it as fmallas meal, Mid fteeps it in a little water, andtherewith rubs over the cow’s fach and back,which made her baith brucket and rigget:So Tom in the morning, takes the cow to apublic houfe within a little of the fair, andleft her till the fair was over, and then drivesher home before him ; and as foon as theycaiae home, the cow began to rout as Iheufed to do, which made the old woman torejoice, thinking it was her own black cow,Ccmical Tranfaftions cf Lothian Tom. 9it, when (he faw her white face, fighed, &id, ‘ Aias! thou’ll ne’er be like the kindlyIrute, my Black lady, and yet roms as like!er as ony ever I did hearBut fays Tomb himfelf, #tis a mercy you know not what ‘he fays, or all would be wrong yet.. So inKvo or three days, the old woman put forthher bra’ rigget cow in the morning with the(reft of her neighbour’s cattle, but it cameon a fore day of heavy rain, which wafhedaway all the white from her face and backjfo the old woman’s Black-lady came homeat night, and her rig^fed cow went away withthe fnower and w'as never heard of. ButTom’s father, having fome fufpicion, andlooking narrowly into the cow’s face, foundfome of the chalk not walked away, andthen he gave poor Tom a hearty beating,and fent him away to feek his fortune w'itba Ikin full of fore bones.* PART. III.O M, being now turned to his ownfhifts, considers with himfelf, how toraife a little more money, gets a long firingas near as he could guefs to be the length ofhis mother, and into Edinburgh he goes, toa wright who was acquainted with his fatherand mother: The wright afked him how hedid-, he anfwered him, very foberly, he had.foil a good dutiful mother laft night, andio Comical Tran/ad ions of Lothian Tom i(here’s a meafure for her coffin. Tom u .•out and (laid for fome time, and then corp-'iin again, and tells the wight.he didknow what to do, for his father had orde:d ’him to get money from fuch a man whtii*'he named, and he was that day gone outjHtown; the wright alked him how much • 4wanted: to which he anfwered, a guinea aia half might do, or 30 /hillings at the leaffo he gave hirn the guinea and the half: theTom gave him ftrid charges, to be out o 1the morrow againft 11 o’cldck with the co:fin, and he fhould havfe his money altoge \ther: lorn fet out for the ale-houfe with thitmoney, and lived well while it lafted. Nex ?morning, the vvright and his two lads wen;isout with the coffin: and as they were going!into the houfe, Tom’s mother, Handing at;the door, alked the mafter how he did, andwhere he was going with that fine coffin ?he did not know well what to fay, being fofurprized to fee her alive, but at lall: he toldher, her fon brought in the meafure the daybefore, and had got a guinea and a half fromhim, which he faid, was to buy fome otherneceflaries for the funeral. O the rogue! faidfhe, has he play’d me that! So the wrightgot his guinea and a half, and fo much forhis trouble, and had to take back his coffinwith him again.1 om “being now fliort of money again,began to think how he could raife a freflifupplyj fo he went to the Port amongH theGpmlcal Tranfadidtii of Lothian Tom. i <fhearers, and there he hired about thirty ofthem, and agreed to give them a week’s(hearing at i o pence a day, which was twopence higher than any had got that year*this made the poor (hearers think he was anhoneft, generous, and genteel mafter as everthey got, for he took them all into an ale-houfe, and gave them a hearty breakfaft, tillthey could eat no more. Now fays he, whenthere is fo many of you together, perhapsfrom different parts, and unacquainted withone another, I do not know but there maybe fome of you honeft men, and fome of yourogues; and as you are to fleep all in onebarn together, any of you who has any mo¬ney, you’ll be fureft to give it to me, and I’limark it down in my book with your names,and what I receive from each of you, andyou (hall have all again on Saturday’s night,when ye get your wrages. O! very well good-man ; take mine, take mine, every one faf-ter than another; fome gave him 5,6, 7, & 8(hillings; even all they had earned thro’ theharveft, which amounted to near 7 pounds. fterling. Having got all their mone^, hegoes on with them, till about 3 miles out oftown, and coming to a great field of (landingcorn, tho’ fomething green, yet convenientfor his purpofe, as it lay at fome diftancefrom any houfe or perfon: fo he made them,begin there, telling them, he was going toorder dinner for them, and fend his own fer-vants to join them: Away he goes with aH12 Cumkal TranfaSihfii if Lothian Tom.the fpeed he could, but takes another roadinto the town, left they fhould follow andcatch him.Now when the people to whom the cornbelonged, faw fuch a band in their held, theycould not underftand the meaning of it; butthe goodman, whofe corn it was, went off,crying always as he ran, to them to flop; butthey would not, until he began t«r)ftrike at•them and they at him, he beii)g in a greatpaftion, as the corn was not fully ripe; atlaft by force of argument, and other peoplecoming up to them, the poor fnearers wereconvinced they had got the bite, which caufedthem to go away lamenting their misfortune.In two or three days thereafter, as Tomwas going down the Cannongate, he meetsone of his {hearers, who knew him and keptfaft by him, demanding his money, and fa-tisfa&ion for the reft: Whiflit, whilht, faysTom, and you’ll get yours and fomethingelfe befide. So Tom takes him into the jaii,and calls for a bottle of ale and a dram, thentakes the jailor afide, as if he had been go¬ing to borrow the money from him; and faysto the jailor, this man here is a great thief,I and two others have been in fearch of himthefe three days, and the other two men havethe warrant with them, fo if you keep thisrogue here till i. run and bring them, you{hall have a guinea in reward; yes, faid thejailor, go, and 1 will fix the^rogue fdr you,fom gets clear out, leaving the poor unno-Comical Tranfaftiens of Lothian Tom. 13cent fellow and the jailor {haggling toge¬ther, and then feta off for England dire&ly.PART IV.TO M, having now left his own nativecountry, went into the county of Nor¬thumberland, where he hired himfelf with anold miferof a farmer; and here he continu¬ed for feveral years, performing his duty inhis fervice very well, tho’ fometimes playinga roguilh bite on thofe about him; his maf-ter had a very naughty guftom, that he wouldallow them no candle at night to fee withv/hen at fupper; Tom one night fets himfelfnext to his mafter, and as they were a-bout to fall on, Tom puts his fpoon into theheart of the difh where the crowdy was hot¬ted:, and claps a fpoonful into his mafter’smouth; a pox on you for a rogue, cried hismafter, for my mouth is all burnt; a pox onyou for a mafter, fays Tom, for you keep ahoufe as dark as Purgatory, for I was goingto my own mouth with that foup, and mif¬fed the way, it being fo-dark : Don’t think,mafter, that I am fuch a big fool as to feedyou, while I have a mouth of my own : Sofrom that night that l orn burnt his mafter’smouth wish the hot crowdy, they always gota candle to {hew them light at fupper, forhis mafter would feed no^nore in the darkwhile Tom was prefent. *4 Comical Tranfaftions of Lothian Tom.There was a fervant girl in the houfe,who, always when Ihe made the beds, neglec¬ted to nuke Tom’s, but would have him todo it himfelf, well then fays Tom, l haveharder work to do, and I (hall do that too,fo next dsw, when Tom was in the field atthe plow; when he faw his mailer comingfrom the houfe towards him, he left the hor-fes and the plow Handing in the field, andgoes away towards his mafter, who cried.What is wrong ? or is any thing broke withyou ? No, no, fays Tom, but I am goinghome to make my bed, it has not been madethefe two weeks, an4 jull now, it is aboutthe time the maid makes all the reft, fo I’llgo home and make mine too. No, no, fir-rah, go back to your plow, and I’ll caufeit be made every night for you; then faysTom, I’ll plow two or three furrows morein the time.There was a butcher came to his mafter’sand bought a fine fat calf, fo Tom laid iton the horfe’s neck before the butcher, andwhen he was gone, now fays Tom, what willyou hold mafter, but I’ll fteal that calf fromthe butcher before he goes two miles off?Why, fays his mafter. I’ll hold a guinea youdon’t: done, fays Tom; in he goes, and getsa good fhoe of his mafter’s, and runs ano¬ther way a-crofs the fields, until he got be¬fore the butcher, near to the corner of thehedge, where there was an open and turn¬ing of the wav, here Tom derns himfelf be-Comical Tranfaflions of Lothian Tom. 15iiind the hedge, and throws the ihoe in themiddle of the high-way, then up comes thebutcher riding and his calf before him; hey,faid he, to himfelf, there’s a good fhoe, if (knew how to get on my calf again, I wouldlight for k, but what fignifies one withoutits neighbour, fo off he goes and lets it ly:Tom then flips out and takes up the flioe a-gain, and runs crofs the fields, until he gotin before the butcher, at another open of thehedge, about half a mile diftant, and therehe throws out the flioe again on the mid ft ofthe way; then up com^s the butcher andfeeing it, fays to himfelf, now I lhall have apair of good ftioes for the lifting, and downhe comes, lays the ca^f on the ground, andtying his horfe to the hedge, runs back,thinking to get the other fhoe, in whichtime, Tom whips up the calf and ftioe,and home he comes, demanding his wager,which his mafter could not deny, being fofairly won.The poor butcher returned back to hishorfe, got only his travel for his pains, fomiffing his calf, he knew not what to fay ordo, but thinking it had broke the rope fromabout its feet, and had gone into the fields,the butcher fpent that day in fearch of it a-mongft the hedges and ditches, and fo re¬turned to Tom’s mafter’s all night, intend¬ing to go and fearch farther for it next day,giving them a tedious relation how he cameto lofe it b? a curfed pair of fhoes. which he16 Comical Tranfaftions of Lothian Tom*believed the devil had dropped in his way,and how he had taken the calf and all alongwith him, expreffirtg his thankfulnefs, thatthe devil was fo honeft, as to fpare his oldhorfe, when he dole away his calf. Nextmorning Tom went to work, and made, afine white face on the calf, with chalk andwater, then brings it out and fells it to thebutcher, which was good diverfion to hismafter and other fervants, to fee the butcherbuy his own calf again; no fooner was hegone with it, but Tom fays, now mafter,what will you hold but I’ll fteal it from himagain, ere he goes two miles off? No, no,fays his mafter. I’ll hold no more bets withyou, but I'll give you a fhilling if you do it,done fays Tom, it fhall coft you no more jand away he runs a foot through the fields,until he came before the butcher, hard bythe place where he ftole the calf from himthe day before: and here he lies behind thehedge, and as the butcher came paft, heputs his hand on his moudi, and cries baw,baw, like a calf; the butcher hearing this,fwears to himfelf, that there was the calf hehad loft the day before, down he comes, andthrows the calf on the ground, gets in thro*the hedge in all hafte, thinking he had nomore to do but take it up ; but as he camein at one part of the hedge, Tom jumps outat another, and gets the calf on his back;then gets in over the hedge on the otheriu\p.. nml through the fields he came fafelvComical Tranfactions of Lothian Tom. 17home with the calf on his back, whilft thepoor butcher fpent his time and labour invain, running from hedge to hedge, andhole to hole, feeking what was not there tobe found. So the butcher returned to hishorfe again, and finding his other calf gone,he concluded it to be done by fome invifi-ble fpirit about that fpot of ground; and fowent home, and raifod a bad report on thedevil, faying, “ He was turned a highway¬man, and had taken two calves from him.”So Tom walking the white face of the fto-len calf, his mailer fent the butcher word,to come and buy another calf, which he ac¬cordingly did a few days after, and Tomfold him the fame calf the third time; thentold him the whole affair as it was afted,giving him his money again, fo the butchergot but fun for his trouble.PARTY.THERE was an old rich blind woman,who lived hard by, that had a young<^1, her only daughter, and fhe fell deep inlove with Tom, and lorn fell as deep inlove with the money but not with the maid,the old woman bellowed a vail of prefen ; s onTom, and mounted him like a gentleman,but Hill he put off the marriage from time totime, and always wanted fomething, whichthe old woman gave the money to purchase18 Comical Tranfaciions of Lothian Tom,for him, until he had got about 30 poundsof her money, and then fhe would delay themarriage no longer; Tom went and tookthe old woman and girl afide, and made hisapology as follows; ‘ Dear mother,’ faid he,‘ I am very willing to wed my dear Polly,‘ for fhe appears as an angel in mine eyes,* but I am forry, very forry to acquaint you,‘ that I am not a fit match for her;* ‘ What‘ child,’ fays the old woman, 4 there’s not a‘ fitter match in the world for my Polly ; I‘ did not think your country could afford‘ fych a clever youth as what I hear of you* to be, you fhall neither want gold nor fil-‘ ver, nor a good horfe to ride upon, and* when I die you fhall have my allO butfays Tom, ‘ Mother, that’s not the matter at‘ all, the flop is this, when I was at home in4 Scotland, I got a ftroke with a horfe’s foot* on the bottom of the belly, which has quite*• difabled me below, that I cannot perform a‘ hufband’s duty in bed.* Then the old wo¬man clapt her hands, and fell a crying,4 O if‘ it had been any other impediment but that!‘ but that! but that wofu that! which gold‘ nor filver cannot purchafe, and yet fhe‘ poorefi: people, that is, even common beg-‘ gars have plenty of it.’ The old womanand her daughter fat crying, and wringingtheir hands, and Tom flood and wept, lefthe {hoeId get no more money. O fays Polly,‘ Mother, Pi! ived with him neverthelefs, I‘ love him fo dearly 1’ 4 No, no, you foolithComical Tranfaftions of Lothian Tom. 19‘ girl, would you throw yourfelf away, to‘ marry a man and die a maid, you don’i‘ know the end of your creation, it is the en-‘ joyment of a man in tied, that makes wo-* men to marry, which is a pleafure like pa-‘ radife, and if you wed with this man, you‘ will live and die and never know it/ *Hoo,‘ hoo,* fays Tom, 4 If I had got money, I4 needed not been this way till now :* ‘ Mo-* ney, you fool,* faid the old woman, c there* is not fuch a thing to be got for money in all‘ England;’ ‘ Ay,’ fays Tom, * there’s a doc-* tor in Newcaftle, w ill make me as able as j-* ny other man for 10 guineas,’4 10 guineas,’faid {he, 4 I’ll give him 50 guineas if he will,4 but here is 12, and go to him dire&ly, and‘ know firft what he can do, and come again‘ and wed my child, or fhe and I will die both‘ for thy fake/ Tom, having now got 12guineas more of their money, got all thingsready, and next morning early, fet out totNewcaftle, but inftead of going to Newcaf¬tle, he came to old Scotland, and left Pollyand her mother to think upon him, then inabour two weeks after, when he was nor liketo return, no, nor fo much as a word fromhim, the old woman and Polly got a horfe,and came to Newcaftle in fearch of him,went through all the dodtors’ (hops, alkingif there came a young .iflan there about twoweeks ago, with a broken cock to jntnd \feme laughed at her, others were like tokick her out of doors, fo they had to return20 Comical 'TranfacUons of Lothian Torn.■without getting any farther intelligence ofhim.Now after Tom returned to Scotland,he got a wife, and took a little farm nearDalkeith^ and became a very doufe man formany days, following his old bufmefs, thecowping of horfes and cows, the feeding ofveal for daughter and the like: he went oneday to a fair, and bought a fine cow froman old woman, but Tom judged by the low'-nefs of the price, that the cow certainly hadfome fault: Tom gives the wife the otherhearty bicker of ale, then fays he, * "Wife,* the money is yours, and the cow is mine,‘ ye maun tell me ony wee bits of fauts it* die has :* ‘ Indeed, quo’ the goodwife, Ihe‘ has nae faut but ane, and if fhe wanted it,‘ I wad ne’er a parted wi’ her* and what‘ is that goodwife ?’ faid he, ‘ Indeed,* faidfhe, ‘ the filthy daft bead fucks ay herfel‘ -Aiite,’ fays Tom, ‘ if that be all, I’ll foon‘ cure her of that.’ ‘ O! can ye do’t,’ faidfhe, ‘ if I had kend what had a don’t, ye‘ wadna gotten her.’ 4 A weel,’ fays Tom,‘ I’ll tv 11 you what to do, tak the cowV price‘ I gave you juft now, and tye it hard and‘ fait in your napkin, and give it to me thro’* beneath the cow’s wame, and I’ll give you* the napkin over, the cow’s back, and I’ll4 lay my life for it, that fhe’il never fuck her-4 fel in my aught;’ ‘ I wat weel,’ faid fhe,4 Ffe do that an’ there fhou’d be witchcraft* in’t,' fo Tom no fooner got it through be-Comicdl Tran factions of Lothian Tern. 21tow the cow’.s wame, then he loofes out hismoney, and puts it in his own pocket, andgave the wife again her napkin o’er thecow’s back, accordingly as he told her, fay¬ing, 4 Now Wife, you have your cow and I4 my money, and fhe’ll never fuck herfelf in‘ my aught, as I told you:’ 4 O dole,’ criedthe Wife, 4 is that your cure, ye’ve cheated‘ me! ye’ve cheated me !’PART VI.O M being very fcarce of money at atime when his rent was to pay, andthough he was well acquainted with thebutchers in Edinburgh, he tried feverals ofthem, yet none of them would lend him asmuch, he was known to be fuch a noted{harper, Tom thinks with himfelf, that hewould give them all a bite in general, whohad refufed him: So in he comes next day,(and all of them had heard of a fine fat calfhe had feeding) comes to one of the butch¬ers, and tells him. he was going to fell thefat calf he had at home. Well, faid thebutcher, and what will you have for it? juftfive and thirty {hillings, fays Tom: No, faysthe butcher, by what I hear of it, I willgive you thirty. Na, na, fays Tom, youmuft remember that is not the price of it,I but give me twenty (hillings juft now, andI fend out your lad to morrow, and we’ll per-22 Comical cVranfa5lions of Lothian Tom.haps agree about it. Thus Tom v/ent thro5ten of them in one day, and got twentyihillings from each of them, and kept hisfpeech againft the law, for whatever theyoffered him^for his calf, he told them to re-member^that was not to be the price of it, butgive me twenty {hillings juft now, and fendout your lad to morrow morning, and per¬haps we’ll agree, was all that palfed. SoTom came home with his ten pounds, andpaid his rent; and early next morning, bneof the butchers fent out his lad to LothianTom’s for the calf, and as he was about amile out of town, he went to an ale-houfe-door, and there calls for a bicker of ale,and as he was drinking it, up comes ano¬ther butcher’s lad on the fame errand, hebeing called by the firft to come and drink,which caufed another biker; then up comesother two on the fame errand, again fixmore, which made out the ten, and everyone told he was going to Lothian Tom’s fora calf, which made them think Tom hadgathered together all the calves of the coun¬trywide: So they came to Tom’s houfe, andevery one called for his calf, and his calf,and Tom had but one calf to ferve them all:which he took and fhowed them. Now,fays he, whoever gives moft for it {hall haveit, or I’ll put it to a roup. What, faid they,our mailer bought it yefterday. Then, faysTom, you would be fools to buy it to-day,ibr it is heavy to carry, and falhious to lead.Comical 'Tranfaclions of Lothian Tom. * ;you mud all go home without it: Next dayTom got ten fummonfes, to anfwer at theinftance of the butchers, for felling his calfand not delivering it. Tom then goes toEdinburgh, gets the ableft lawyer in townfor that purpofe, tells him the whole of whatpad, from hrft to lad. Then faid the law¬yer, as they cannot prove a bargain, denyyou the paying of the money again, ^nd ifyou’ll give me the calf. I’ll bring you off;but remember, “ In law there is no pointM like that of denial.” The calf, fays Tim,you’ll not want the calf and a done of but¬ter to make it ready with. Then the law¬yer goes to the court, where Tom was cal¬led upon: The lawyer anfwers fird, whoafked the butchers, if they could tell theprice of the calf or prove the bargain ? fheyanfwered. No; but he ordered us to fendout our lads, and we would agree about it.Agree about it. faid the Judges! Why do youcome to fue for a bargain, and to agree a-bout it yet ? Ay, but faid they, we wanttwenty /hillings a piece from him of themoney we gave him. Tom is called upon,I then faid the Judges, ‘ Did you borrow] ‘ twenty (hillings of any of thefe men?’ ‘Not‘ I, my Lord, I came indeed alking the loan* of money from them, but they would lend* me none, and then 1 came next day be£-‘ gar-wife, and they were fo generous as to‘ give me twenty (hillings the piece.’ ‘ But/faid the Judge, ‘ was not you to give it back24 Comical 'Tranfafiions of Lothian 'Tom.e again?’ ‘ I never promifed, nor never in-4 tended it at all, my Lord; for what is gt-4 ven to the poor, is given gratis; and I4 appeal to this whole cpurt, that whatever* pence any of you have given to the poor,4 that you look not for any of it back a-4 gain.’ Then Tom was freed at the bar,and the butchers loft and were laughed at.After the court, Tom and the lawyer hada hearty bottle, and at parting, the lawyerfaid, 4 Now mind Tom, and fend me in the4 calf to-morrow.’ 4 O yes,’ fays Tom, 4 but4 you muff fcrft fend me out forty (hillings4 for it.’ 4 What,’ fays -the lawyer, 4 did you4 not promife me it, and a (tone of butter4 to make it ready with, for t .ling your4 plea?’ 4 But,’ fays Tom, 4 Did you not tell4 me, that the only point of the law was to4 deny ? and you cannot prove it: So I’ll4 fell iny calf to them that will give mod for4 it; and if you have learned me law, 1 have4 learned you rogury to your experience; fo4 take this as a reward, for helping me to4 cheat the butchers, and now I think I’m4 even with you both.’ And this was all theSawyer got of Tom.FINIS.GLASGOW,PRINTED by J. and M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, 1800.