LIFE AND TRANSACTIONSMrs JANE SHORE,Concubine to King Edward IV.Containing, An Account of her Parentage, Wit and Beauty. HerMarriage with Mr. Shore, The King’s visits toher ; her going to Court, and leaving herHusband- Her great distress andmisery after the King’s death.Also,THE LIFE OF RICHARD III,KILMARNOCK :Printed by H. Crawford, Bookse/terI&21.THELIFE AND TRANSACTICOFMrs. JANE SHORE.VTRS. JANE SHORE was daughte’V-®- to Mr. Thomas Wainstead, a citizeof good repute, who lived in Cheapside,hy trade a mercer. She being the onlychild of her parents, was brought up withail the care and tenderness imaginable, notwanting any education that was proper forher; and<her natural temper, which wasvery airy, being joined to her education,and that degree of pride, which, as it isnatural, some make necessary for the fe¬male sex, helped to set her off to the bestadvantage. Fine feathers always makefine birds ; and if the birds are fine with¬out them, doubtless they make themdoubly so. . .This lovely woman was the delight ofher father, who clothed her richly, adorn-hig her with jewels; and, his trade lying >among the court-ladies, he often carried 'her with him to shew her the pastimes •which were made frequently there, to di- !yett the queen, &e. which gave her an '■searlv longing after a greater gentility than(she nad ever yet attained to, or her citybreeding was fit to produce.When she grew to the age of fifteen,her competent stock of beauty and goodcarriage, caused many to fall in love withher; and some great lords fixed their eyesupon her, to get her for a mistress, whichher father perceiving, sent her to his sisterlat Northampton,where she remained abouta year, till he supposed the inquiry afterker was over; and that she might returnwithout any hazard of being any further:empted to lewdness. Yet, she was no^ooner returned, than a plot was laid onei light to have her carried away by LordTHastinga, who, after the death of King“idward, took her for his concubine, asrill appear in the close of this history.—iut, the maid he had bribed to get hernbroad, repenting of suoh treachery to her(master, gave timely notice, and so pre-irented it.Her father perceiving, that, unless heoook some speedy course, her great stockf beauty would be her ruin, resolved tonarry her, so that having surrendered h^riirginity, and being in the arms of an hus-and, those that sought to crop her virginise, would not regard her, but gi\e overir pursuit.4And, among those that courteu, amearnestly sought her, in way of marriagewas one Matthew Shore, a rich goldsmitHin Lombard-street, whom her father pitch!ed upon as a fit husband, and acquaintecihis fair daughter with his intention tcmarry her to him, but she appeared veryaverse to it, alleging sometimes dispro-pertion of years, he being above thirty:at other times, his being disfigured \vithe small pox, and many other exceptidshe made. However, her father’s nositivtmade her, won her consent, or seemingljshe yielded to the match, and so marriedthey were in great pomp ; many of thecourt, as well as the city, being invitedto the wedding, which was kept with greatfeasting, many days.The wedding being over, and the bride¬groom having enjoyed his charming bride,grew exceedingly fond of her, even todotage, which sickened and palled herlove toward him; and he perceiving It,strove to wind himself the more into heraffections s and to this end he clothed hervery richly, and adorned her with jewels,denying her nothing she desired, or thathe thought would tend to her satisfactionor delight.!r was not long before Lord Hasting*commands, and the rich presents her lovernh«ard the unwefcome tidings, that his fa;r-Jiest Jane was married; which, however,i did not make him give over his purpose ofiienjoying her fair body ; so that often heiresorted to see her, treating her at home,and her husband abroad •, often invitingthem both to court; and took his oppor-dis-totumties to pour out many amorousicourses, endeavouring, by all means,tr. '.ke her defile the marviage-bed. Andone time, intending to try his utmost ef¬forts, he threw her on a bed when theywere alone: but she got from him, andIran to her husband, telling him plainlyahow rude Lord Hastings had been; whichangering Shore, he modestly rebuked himland forbade him his house, which made1 lii'him go away in great heat, but resolvingto be revenged.This Lord, being Chamberlain to KinglEdward the 4th, having frequently his ear ;nand, finding he u'as much inclined to fine:iwomen, though he was married to Lady■|Elizabeth Grey, took an opportunity toItell him of Jane Shore’s beauty, extollingliter wit above her features, which madeihe King hearken to this new adventure,nd he resolved to go to Shore’s shop inisguire to see her.The King, whose thoughts still ran oniiys intended mistress, delayed not long to&•t»ay her a visit; and in order to it,attiui ihimself like a merchant, and withdnw fprivately from court, being only attande \by bis page. And coming into Shore'shop, then the nchest in all Lombardstreet, he found the good man employein his business; and, waiting till he waa little at leisure, he desired to see somplate, which being shewn him, he, unde:a pretence of carrying it beyond sea, soo:agreed for a considerable quantity. Bu.yet no wife appeared, which made him deiay the time with discourse, of what wasthen transacting in England, and placesabroad, where he said he had travelledThis delighted Shore mightily, so thathe ordered his man to fetch up a bottle ofwine, and they drank merrily; the goodman beginning with a health to the Kingwhich the King pledged him in. So whensome other healths had passed, the Kingasked, if there was not a mistress to sofair a house ? otherwise, he could helphim to a wife, rich, young and beautiful.For this offer, Shore thanked him, buttold him, he was already married to sucha one as he described, whom he loved eo--tirely. This discourse made the Kingmore desirous to see her ere he departed,and asked if he could have a sight of her.Shore, little thinking what was intendedfor his ruin, and proud of his wife’s beauty,soon yielded to his request, and orderedher to be called down, who came attiredin a sky-coloured morning gown, floweredwith gold, embroidered with pearls andspangles, her head attired with curiouslace, under which her hair flowed wan¬tonly; and her blushes made her appearstill more beautiful.The King no sooner saw her, but hestepped forth and saluted her coral lips.,impressing on them many balmy kises.—Then she, by her husband’s desire, satdown, and the King drank to her; shepledged him, and passed it to her husband.Then much discourse ensued, in whichshe appeared so witty, that the King re¬solved to have her at any rate, and so pre¬sented her with some curious things. Hepaid for his plate, which the good manwould have sent home, but he refused it,ordering his page to carry it; and withmany kisses, he took leave of the charm¬ing fair one for that time.The King had no sooner departed, hutJane asked her husband, who that gentle¬man was, that had been so liberal to her ?he told her, he said he was a merchant?,but he knew him not. Ah! said she, Irathef take him for some Lord in disguise ;therefore, dear husband, if he should corfeIP”8Again, tell him that I am sick, or any thinsyou can feign to disappoint him.Mr. Shore was greatly pleased at hei)conduct, and more discourse had passed,pbut people coming into the shop aboutllbusiness, she retired. ;The King soon arrived at court,, wherehhe had been missed by his nobles, soanMchanged his apparel, and came amongsoi:them with a very cheerful countenance ;||and though others were ignorant, Hast- |ings well perceived where he had been, I iand the satisfaction he had received, andno sooner were they, in private, but the IKing said, well, Hastings, thou hast very |good judgment in fine women; I have seenShore’s wife, and she excels the praisesyou gave her ; I like her well, and mustenjoy her, but how must I bring it about ?to court her in her husband’s presence, asa private person, I shall be served as youwas; and to do it as a King, will looktoo low for me. I will not foice her from-his arms, for that would cause a murmur¬ing among my subjects, who would fearthe like by their wives and daughters; but1 must have her, and with her own con-,sent.Hastings smiling, immediately said, takeno cafe, for this shall be easy to your Ma-ioity : there is one Mrs. Blague, your lace-s«*I'AH’; {pi. |a»9woman, has a house near Shore’s, and isvery intimate with his wife. This womanit very-fond of money, to such a degree,that money would make her do any thing*Her will I engage to do this matter, andtrust me she will bring it to pass to youtsatisfaction. The King liked this device,and it was agreed that he should see herat this Mrs. Blague’s, and have freedomto court her, but she should not know thathe was the King, till he thought properto have it discovered.Lord Hastings was not idle in- promot¬ing his master’s happiness, but, with giftsand large promises, soon made the lace-woman pliable, so that many meetingswere made at her house, the King comingin disguise as her friend; and, thoughMrs. Blague often left them alone, andthe King courted her with all his rhetoric,yet she appeared averse to his love, andoften blamed him sharply for persuadingher to defile her husband’s bed; and thenshe would chide Mrs. Blague for sufferingsuch a rude man to come to her house, tel¬ling her the design he had on her chastityshe seemed surprised at it, but entreatedher to be at ease, for she would not sufferhim to come there again any more.This pacified her, but the plot was stilldeeper laid for her ruin, and at Christmas10time sKe get leave of Mr. Shore for his iwife to accompany her to the court, ta seethe-ball there,-to which he consented , with |some unwillingness. And soon after she !was introduced, a man of very comely portentered, with a mask on; and Mrs. Shore 'Jreard the ladies whisper, ‘That’s the King;’who looking round through his mask,fixed his eyes upon her, and immediately istepping to her seat, took her out'tp dancealong with him. At this she blushed, butnot to be unmannerly, she complied; and ithe dance being ended, he took her to a |single light, and pulling off his mask tosalute her, she perceived it was the sameman whom she had seen at her own shop,and at Mrs. Blague’s house; and puttinga letter into her hand, he retired. Shethen coming to Mrs, Blague, desired togo home ; to this she consented, and thenread the letter, which was to this purpo^p :“ My lovely Jane,“ Your beauty has enthralled my heart.ll\Tis a King sues; you Kill be kind to* him, and, by a line', tell him so to his“ contort.'”’ When she read this letter, she left Mrs.Blague abruptly, judging she had a htm4in the matter.i 11All this night the fair j^ne jvas restless;I her hhshand eiiqhired the cause^'but cohlili not learn it. As Sirfc'n as she got up shewerit tb Mrs. Blafu5»V:tld consult what she1 must do in this strait, well knowing thij king’s humour.Mrs. Blague seeing her thus pensive,i said, M Come, my'dear, !you must not be1 u coy, nor d<ny the king’s request. You| “ will glitter so near a thrbne, and enjoj1 «< a gallant bed-fellow. I find he is resolv-ed to have you for a mistress, and there-1 fore it is best fbt you willingly to sub-1 “ mit to him.”At this discourse she trembled, yetconsidering, from the many attempts herbeauty had caused, that it was not madei to be enjoyed by one, in a fatal hour shet consented; and instead of writing an an-<l swer to the king’s letter, it was agreedI that very night she should take her appar-a el, and put herself into the hands of thes! king. This being concluded, Mrs. Blagueli sent the king notice, who sent a chariotij for them; and in the mean time herclothes were conveyed away to Mrs.Blague’s. However, she supped with herII husband, when on a sudden somebodyij came on a feigned errand, and said, herij mother was taken ill, and desired to speak■ I with her. He would have gone with her.I1112t-»•'*■ ' "!£ 'i 'ILr ’I'f1 ’[bat she put it off; and gitring hipxhkiss he ever was to receive from her, she itleft him; and coming where the chariotstood ready, she and Mrs. Blague got in-ta it, and were conveyed to the king'ssecret apartment, where they found himin his closet. He welcomed them, but itbeing late, Mrs, .Blague departed, andthey went to bed.Mr. Shore sitting up late, and his wifenot returning., was very much troubled;and*went to his mother-in-law’s, but theyhad not seen her, nor was her mother ill,so that her absence troubled the whole fa¬mily. The next day was spent in seekingfor her amongst her relations and friends,but found her not. Mrs. Blague protest¬ed she had not seen her, and droppedfome dissembling tears, so that her hus¬band was almost distracted, and at lastconcluded, that she was taken away bysome courtier; and, in three days after,a lady informed them that she was withthe king. This added more to their grief;they knew not what course to take; andthey knew if they went to cross the kingit would be their ruin.They made inquiry, indeed, if it washer voluntary act; and finding it was, andshe quite unwilling to leave her new lov¬er, they left all hope of recovering her, somir isI-- o' v-.;.| that Mr. Shore growing melancholy, soldcoff all he had, and went abroad; but,.Vi: i having spent his fortune, he returned inl a poor condition, and practised clippingiand filing gold coin to piaihtain himself;; for which he suffered death in the latterv ijend of K. Henry Vlli’s reign.Jane Shore having rendered up herchastity to the king, pleased with the glit-teriog of a court, and endeared by a mo¬narch’s love, was admired by the vulgar,towards whom she behaved in a most cour¬teous manner.Her power was so great with the king,!that when his courtiers durst not intercedefor the poor and miserable that lay underhis displeasure, she, with her wit, wouldso abate his anger, that she saved the livesof very many, both poor and rich. Andthough she could in a manner do all withhim, yet it was never known she usedher influence to the prejudice of any.And both in London, and the progressesshe made in the country, she would causepoor people to be sought for, and relievetheir necessities, inducing and persuadingothers, who expected any good officesfrom the king by her means, to do thesame, never selling her favours; and byher ready wit, she so baffled the courtladies, who envied her aspiring, that theyufound themselves unable ter repartee.-And though the king had another mistretbefore her, namely Lady Bessy, yet bpreferred our heroine much above heiand would often merrily say', I have tvirmistresses, of quite different tempers, onthe most religious, and the other the merriest in England: and indeed shewaslntin great favour all the reig* ef' the kinghaving crowds of petitioners waiting aher chamber door, or at the chariot sidewhen she was to ride abroad, Whose suit^to the utmost of her power, she preferredAs for Mrs. Blague, who least deserveof her, she procured of the king a statelhouse and manor, worth 2801. a-yearThe Romish priests much spited her, be¬cause she sheltered many from their rageand fury, after they had burned JohnHuss for an heretic.As no 'vrtrldly pomp nor greatness isof long continuance, so now her glorywas ended, and her days of inexpressiblemisery began *, for, the king dying atWestminster, in the fortieth year of hisreum, no sooner was he buried in thechapel of his own founding, at Windsor,but crook-backed Richard his brother, whomurdered Henry VI. and Prince Henryhis sou, aspiring to the throne, thoughEdward had teft two sons behind him, viz.15Edward and Richard, and several daugh-?rs, all lawfully begotten with the queen;e quarrelled with Lord Hastings, (who'fter the death of the. king had tak-n Jane Shore for his concubine, as nowree) because he would not assist him inais wicked project, of making away-withds two nephews, whom he afterwards:aused to be murdered in the tower, al^feging that the queen and Shore’s wifelad bewitched him, shewing his witheredirm, which all knew had been so from his;:radle; and, that lord thinking to excusehem, said, “If they had done so, they[Ought to be punished.” Richard furiously,replied, “ Thou traitor, dost thou servenme with i/s ? I say, it is a truth very wellknown to thee, that they have done so,and that I will make good on thy body ;wherefore I arrest thee, Lord Hastings,for high treason.” And, soon after, heCaused his head to be cut off in the tower.Jane Shore had no sooner notice of thealeath of Lord Hastings, her paramour,‘ Ijbut she perceived a sform was falling onher own head; therefore, she thought itsnecessary to provide in time, and so shecarried her jeivels to her old confidante,Mrs. Blague, entreating her to concealithem for her ; but she, like a faithlesswoman, when Jane came and asked for16thetn» not only denied them, but'when,’i||the greatest need, she came to crave alm|.of her, she thrust her but of doors, threat|Lening to have her whipped for her impuldence. 1Richard, by means aforesaid, havindjgot to the crown, and to make himsellllseem fair by others sins, though he wasa||imonster by nature, publickly declaring hisfflmother to be a whore, his brother and histchildren to be bastards; caused his queen jto be poisoned, and would have weddedihis niece. He ordered our Jane Shore toll-be apprehended, stripped of all she had,|and do penance, by several times walk-ing in a white sheet, and then walk bare- |footed and bare-headed in her shift beforethe procession, with a cross and wax tap¬er in her hand, through Cheapside, whichshe did, looking so lovely in her blushes,that many a one pitied her ; he also strip¬ped all her friends and relations of what¬ever they had, pretending they had got itall bv her means from the crown in kingEdward's reign; which, with the disgracetheir only daughter was fallen into, causedher parents’ deathRichard, not content with this, put outa severe proclamation to this effect: Thaton the pain of death and confiscation of"oods, no one should harbour her in theirO 917'housei, nor relieve her with food or rai¬ment; so that she went wandering upand down to find her food upon the bush¬es, and on the dunghills, where someriends she had raised would throw bonesith more meat than ordinary, and crustsf stale bread, in the places where she ge¬nerally haunted. And a baker, who hadbeen condemned to die for a riot in King'Edward’s reign, and saved by her means,as he saw her pass along, in gratitude foriher kindness, would trundle a penny loafafter her, which she thankfully received,and blessed him with tears in her eyes;but some malicious neighbour informingagainst him, he was taken up and hangedfor disobeying King Richard’s proclama-Ition, which so terrified others, that theyI durst not relieve her with any thing; sothat, in miserable rags, almost naked, shewent about a most shocking spectacle,■wringing her hands, and bemoaning heri unhappy fate.Thss she continued till the battle ofBosworth-field, where Richard was slainby Henry Earl of Richmond, who suc¬ceeded him by the name of Henry thei VII. ; n which reign she hoped for betterdays: but fortune raised her another ad-■ versary, for he married Elizabeth, eldestdaughter of Edward IV. and King Ed-18ward’s Queen, who mortally hated herthen bearing a great sway, another pro.clamation was issued to the same effect•$.and so she wandered up and down, in as ipoor and miserable a condition as before,,till growing old, and utterly friendless, she pifinished her life in a ditch, which was from ithence called Shore’s Ditch, adjoiningBishop’sgate-street.Thus you may see the rise and fall ofthis once stately, and then unhappy wo¬man, with whose dying lamentation I shallconclude.-fc-... 1 * :- • 4 it ■} ./ ' 'tj-itiii uJtia !)(lh.• ac i. ''!!r*, .* jcuih'tfi*'•/'pdwih lolr ’ * *'THE DTING LAMENTATIONo» yrc ibiw i.ol’ < . Unr-, or■ Jj JHj.VMrs. Jane Shore.\ <v<UV|Good People,"JTHOUGH, by the rigour of the lawyou are forbidden to give me anyrelief, yet vou may pity my unhappy state^for the Scripture saith, ‘ That to the mi-19i!«l te| sefftble pity should be shewn.* I am nowputting a period to a miserable life; a lifethat I have been long weary of. Nor,would I desire to live in the splendour,pomp, and glory of Edward’s court. No,I am happier now on the dung-hill, thanever I was in his arms. For, oh! it wasi an adulterous bed indeed. Oh, wretch 1that King Edward! that ever I was be-(i l trayed by him ! What floods of sorrowhave my sins occasioned ? Oh ! learn from1 me, good people, to beware of vain de¬lights ; though they promise fair, they leave: bitter stings behind them. Alas ! you know||| my punishment is grievous in this world,a and so it is, for I have endured a thou-.ill sand deaths in one; but now, my dyingmoments are come, I rejoice. Sincererepentance has secured my happinessabove. But, O, where repentance is notgiven, what seas of torment rack the soul lO happy dung-hill, how do I embracethee ! From tiiae my pardoned soul shallsoar to heaven, though here I leave thisfilthy carcase.O that the name of Shore may be anantidote, to stop the poisonous and foulcontagion of raging liist for ever.-X-ND OF JAKE SHORE./20LIFE OF RICHARD III.TN H83, never was there in any coun- !try an usurpation more flagrant, ormorg repugnant to every principle of jus- •tice and humanity, than that of Richard. |His title was never acknowledged by anynational assembly, scarcely even by thelowest of the populace j and the murder tof the young and innocent princes,Ed ward,prince of Wales, and Richard, duke of 'York, could not but excite sentiments ofdetestation in every bosom. Such was be¬come the general sense of the people.—Thoduke of Buckingham, disappointed inhis expectations from Richard, was easilyinduced to espouse the cause of this party,and to endeavour the restoring of it to itsancient superiority. Morton, bishop ofEly, a zealous Lancastrian, whom theking had imprisoned, and had afterwardscommitted to the custody of Buckingham,encouraged these sentiments; and by hisexhortations, the duke cast his eye to¬wards the young earl of Richmond, as theperson who could dethrone the usurper.Henry, earl of Richmond, (a descen¬dant from the Houses of Lancaster andTudor,) had been carried inter Britannyby his uncle, the earl of Pembroke, after, the battle of Tewkesbury, where he hadil resided until now. It was suggested byMorton, to Buckingham, that the bestf method of overturning the present govern-i ment, would be to contract a marriage be¬tween the earl of Richmond and the prin¬cess Elizabeth, eldest daughter of kingEdward, and thereby blend the families,which had so long been the source of in¬testine wars. The countess-dowager ofRichmond,and the queen-dowager, readilyi acceded to this scheme; and the latter,secretly borrowing a sum of money in theli city, sent it over to the earl, requiring hisii oath to celebrate the marriage with heri daughter as soon as he should arrive inEngland; advised him to levy as manyforeign troops as possible; and promisedto join him, on his first appearance, with| all the friends and partisans of her family.The plan being thus laid, it was secretlyi communicated to the principal persons ofI lioth parties in all the counties of England.I Richard soon received intelligence that his} enemies, headed by the duke of Bucking-I ham, was forming some design against hisS authority. He immediately levied troopsin the north, and summoned the duke toappear at court. But that nobleman, well22acquainted with the treachery of Richard,replied only by taking arms in Walee.-Uhfortunately, at that very time, (October^there happenned to fall such heavy rains,that the Severn swelled to a height whichprevented Buckingham from marchinginto the heart of England to join his con¬federates. The Welchmen, moved bysuperstition, fell off from him ; and Buck¬ingham, finding himself deserted, tookshelter in the house of an old servant ofhis. Being detected in his retreat, he wasinstantly beheaded. The other conspira¬tors immediately dispersed.In the year 1485, the earl of Richmond,having collected an army of 2000 men,set sail from Harfieur in Normand^ ; andafter a navigation of six days landed atMilford-haven, in Wales. Richard, whoknew not in what quarter he might expectthe invader, had taken post at Netting-ham, in the centre of the kingdom, to flyoa the first alarm to the place exposed todanger. The earl, advancing towardsShrewsbury, received every day some re¬inforcement ; and the appearance of menof distinction in his camp, made his causealready wear a favourable aspect. Thetwo rivals at last approached each otherat Bosworth in Liecestershire(August22J) Henry at the head of »»000 men.23Richard with an army of double thatuuna-ber; and a decisive action was every-hourexpected between them. Lord Stanley,who commanded a body of 7000 men,posted himself at Atherston, not far frcmthe hostile camps; and he made such adisposition as would enable him, on, occa¬sion, to join either party.Soon after the battle begafi, lord Stan¬ley appeared in the field, and declared forthe earl of Richmond. This measure,which was unexpected to the men, thoughnot to the leaders, had a proportional ef-ifect on both armies. It inspired unusualcourage into Henry’s soldiers; it thre.wRichard’s into dismay and confusion.—iThe intrepid tyrant, sensible of his des¬perate situation, cast his eyes around thefield, and, descrying his rival at no greati distance, he drove against him with fury,in hope that either Henry's death or hisown would decide the victory. He kil-iled, with his own hands, Sir Williamjl! Brandon, stand aid-bearer to the earl, andJWas now within reach of Henry himself,in who declined not the combat; when SirW William Stanley, breaking in with hisi* troops, surrounded Richard, who, fight-ping bravely to the last moment, was over-| whelmed by numbers, sud perished by aii Tate too honourable for his multiped and24*detestable enormities. His men everwhere sought for safety by flight.—Therfell in this battle about 4000 of the van !quished: and, among these, the duke o|iNorfolk, and Sir Robert Brackenbury.—1|Sir William Catesby, a great instrumen iof Richard's crimes, was taken, and sootafter beheaded, with some others, at Leitester. The loss was inconsiderable on th«side of the victor*. The body of Richarcwas found in the field covered with dearenemies, and all besmeared with blood!.It was thrown carelessly across a horsewas carried to Leicester, amidst the shouttof insulting spectators ; and was interredin the Gray-Friars’ church of that placeThe historians who favour Richard (foieven this tyrant has met with partisansamong the later writers) maintain that hewas well qualified for government, had helegally attained it; and that he was guiltyof no crime but such as were necessary toprocure him possession of the crown; butthis is a poor apology for injustice, cruelty,and murder. Richard was of a small sta¬ture, humpbacked, and had a hard dis¬agreeable countenance; so that his bodywas no less deformed than his mind.FINIS.