THEGLASGOW:’HINTED FOR AND SOLD BY ARCHIBALD LANG,10, WILSON-STREET.1820.SOLDIER’S DAUGHTER,OR THE ,HISTORYmawi■THESOMMER'S BAUGHTERi■$c. cfr.Mary JONES was the only child of a private si|dier, and was accustomed to travel about with tregiment from her birth. At about the age of fiftetshe had the misfortune of losing her mother. When tpoor woman felt herself approaching to her end, she Itthe barracks, and taking Mary with her, went to a sm.cabin near the town where the regiment was quartereThe day before she died, she called Mary to her beside, and said, “ My dear child, I am going to leayou.” “ O mother,” said Mary, “ do not speak in thway, I am sure you will soon be better.”“ No,” said the poor woman, “ I shall not recovemy journey is almost over; but dry your tears, and listtwhile I am able to speak to j'ou. I have no legacy fiyou, my child, but this booki—a greater treasure I coulnot give you. This bible has been my constant conpanion for many years; it has been my comforter toI have learned from it my own guilt and wretchednesbut it has told me of just such a Saviour as my poor soineeds. I have learned from it, that the “ Lamb of Gowho taketh away the sin of the world,” is mighty to>sav“ freely by his grace,” the vilest, who trusts in hinThe words of this book have been my support througlife, and now that I am dying, its precious promises afforme peace and consolation. I know I am a sinner;know I deserve nothing but condemnation, but I knoiin whom I have believed, and trusting in Jesus th“ Friend of sinners,” I meet death with joy, as thmessenger that calls me home to him, “ whom not having seen, I love.”3The next day the poor woman died, enjoying thatpeace which nothing but an entire dependence on theRedeemer can give.Mary Jones grieved much for her mother, but she didnot know how great a loss she had sustained. Hermother had taken the greatest pains to bring her updecently, and to preserve her from all the evils she mightsuffer from living in a barrack. Now her only protectorwas her father, who was almost always on guard, oramong the soldiers, and therefore paid but little attentionto her. Mary had been accustomed to read the bible toher mother every day. This she had always felt atroublesome task, and therefore soon after her mother’sdeath, the bible, which had only been read by constraint,was neglected, and she spent almost her whole time inidleness, talking with the soldiers’ wives, &c. and eventhe Sabbath days were devoted to amusement.Three years passed on in this manner, when the regiment%vas ordered abroad for foreign service, and the womenbelonging to it, were obliged to remain behind, andMary hired as children’s maid at the house of a gentle¬man, who lived near. In her new situation, Mary hadmuch time for reflection. When sitting alone in thenursery, at night, she would often think of her mother.Many of her sayings, which she thought she had entire¬ly forgotten, recurred to her mind. The tenderness andearnestness with which she had frequently urged to herthe importance of eternal things, and above all, theirlast conversation was recollected by Mary most perfectly..Oh! (said she to herself,) little did my mother think,that that book, her dying legacy, which she gave mewith prayers and tears, would be so neglected by me.But if this has been ingratitude in me towards her, howoffensive must it have been to God, to have made lightof his word? It is now too late for me to seek the mercyI have despised so long. I have cast God’s word behindme, and he will be just in casting me from his presenceat last into everlasting fire.Her mind was thus engaged one evening, when AnneBrowne, one of her fellow-servants, came into the room,and perceiving by Mary’s countenance she was in distress,with great tenderness asked her the cause. Encouraged4by the kindness of her manner, Mary opened her wholeheart to her. “ Oh!’’ said she, “ I have been livingwithout God in the world, wilfully disobeying his com¬mands, though I know I was in the wrong. Even lastSunday evening, when I joined with the other servantsin laughing at you, for rather choosing to sit above read¬ing your bible in the garret, than to stay below wherewe were making so merry, I could not help feeling thatit would be better for me to be like you, than to possessthe whole world.”Anne Browne.—To be like me is but a poor desire,for I am an unworthy sinner; but since you have spokento me, if you believe all that I shall read to you out ofyour bible, I will undertake to comfort you, and thattoo without denying or excusing your sin, or leadingyou to think better of yourself than you do now, for Iam persuaded you do not know half the evil of yourown heart.Mary, (reaching her the brble.)—Well, I will listento you, though I am sure you can read nothing for mebut condemnation from that book. Anne opened andread, “ Thou hast destroyed thyself.”—Hosea xiii. 9.True, said Mary, interrupting her, I have destroyed mysoul, by breaking God’s law, and by rejecting his gospel.Anne.—You have indeed, dear Mary; but you knowI promised to comfort you, without denying your guilt.Hear what follows—“ In me is thine help.” Here is aword of consolation for such as you and I, who areunable to help ourselves. “ Jesus is able to save themunto the utermost, who come unto God by him.”—“ This“ is a truth worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus“ came into the world to save sinners. He came to seek“ and to save that which was lost. He receiveth sinners.“ His blood cleanseth from all sin, and whoso trusteth“ in him, shall not be confounded.” Then after havingread slowly, the 3d and 6th chapters of St John’s Gos¬pel, and the 15th chapter of St. Luke, she shut the bookand said, “ Dear Mary, do you believe what I have beenreading?’ If you do, you must have joy and peace.”Mary.—I cannot deny what you say, for it is all inthe Bible; but how do I know that it is addressed to me,or suited to my case?/5Anne.—The gospel is addressed to “ every crea¬ture’’—Mark xvi. 15.—When God declares that “ Allthe world is guilty before him.” These words of con¬demnation apply as much to you and I, as though weonly had broken God’s law; and when he sends a messageof mercy, which is good news to “ all people,’’ anddeclares “ Whosoever believeth on the Son of God,shall not perish, but have everlasting life,” we are a«much addressed in these words of peace, as though ourvery names were mentioned. Oh! then dear Mary,doubt not the many gracious declarations of free mercy,with which this blessed book abounds; but take it your¬self, and read over the passages I have mentioned to you,for I must leave you, as I have some business to attend to.Mary made no reply, for her heart was full. WhenAnne left the room, she took the bible, and read it withgreat delight for some time. Never before,had Maryfound pleasure in prayer. Now, for the first time sheapproached God in sincerity, through Jesus, pleading hisdeath, as the only reason why God should regard her guiltysoul in mercy. She lay down to rest that night, happierthan she had ever been in her life, and her heart filledwith grateful joy, saying, “ What shall 1 render to theLord for all his benefits?”Mary found a faithful friend in Anne Browne.—Theyboth rose every morning an hour earlier than the rest ofof the servants, that they might read the scripturestogether, without neglecting their business. This theyfound both pleasant and profitable. The fruits of thedoctrine she had received, were soon seen on MaryJones. Her temper had been so bad, that Mrs. Ford,her mistress, had intended parting with her, on accountof it. Now the children all grew fond of her, for shegrew mild and indulgent to them. Whenever she felther evil passions rising, she would secretly ask the Lordto enable her to overcome them, which she now knewshe could not do in her own strength.Mrs. Ford perceived the change, and though she thenknew not the cause, was satisfied with it.About two years after this, Mary received a letterfrom her father, telling her that his leg had been shot offin an engagement, and he had therefore got his discharge,and expected to be able to return to his native country Jin about three months. He desired her to look out for ia small cabin, near the place where she lived, as he would flike to settle near her, but did not wish her to leave JMrs. Ford on his account.Mary shewed her mistress the letter, and expressedher intention of quitting her, as she felt it her duty to.live with her father, and endeavour to make his life com- ■fortable. Mrs. Ford pressed her much to stay, for hergood conduct had rendered her quite a favourite, butcould not succeed. She procured from Mr. Ford a cabinand garden, at a low rent, which Mary engaged to pay,and laid out some money she had saved out of her wagesin purchasing furniture. Mrs. Ford assisted her in this, andmade her a present of some of the most expensive articles.When William Jones arrived, he found his daughterready to receive him, having every thing comfortableprepared. He was delighted with the neatness of thecabin, and to see Mary look so cheerful and healthy.“ But, my child,” said he, “ you must not leave your kindmistress and good situation, to live here with me. Youknow you were always fond of keeping company; youwill grow quite melancholy, if you have no one to speakto but me.’’“ Do not fear,” said Mary smiling, “ I will not bemelancholy, I have a companion who always makes mehappy, and to whom, if you will allow me, I will intro¬duce you to-morrow, when you are recovered from yourfatigue. I will set up a little school, and take in plainwork; I engage we always shall have enough.’’The next day, Mary came to her father. “ I am go¬ing to introduce my companion to you,’’ said she, layingher bible on the table before him. “ It has answered agreat many important questions for me, in a way thathas made my heart glad. It is just as ready to talk withyou, and if you will allow it to converse an hour with usevery evening, I will promise not to be melancholy, forwant of other company ”William Jones.—I can refuse you nothing Mary, yourheart seems so set on making me happy; besides, sincethe time I was so near being killed in the engagement, Ihave been thinking I ought to have attended more to the/7 'care of my soul, and not to have been living, as thoughI expected never to die.“ Thank God for sparing you,’’ said Mary. “ O,may he make his own word profitable to us both!’'When evening came, Mary never failed to bring thebible, and read it for her father; nor did she cease en¬treating the Lord, to open his mind, that he mightunderstand and receive the glorious truths it contains.When she had opportunity, she would with much hu¬mility speak a little on religious subjects, and her conductso enforced her words, that her father soon began to lovethe bible as much as she did; for he learned from it, torest all his hopes for eternity, on that mighty Saviour,from whom Mary drew all her peace and joy.Mary’s school was soon filled with all the children ofthe neighbourhood; and Anne Browne came to live withher, to assist her in instructing them. This addedgreatly to Mary’s happiness. But about four years after,her joy was greatly interrupted by the illness and death ofher father. Mary watched him night and day, while hewas sick, and at length, saw him close his eyes in peace.She sorrowed for him, but “ not as those who have nohope,” for she looked forward to meeting him with joybefore the throne of God, and joining with him to sing“ Worthy is the Lamb that was slain,” when the days ofher mourning should also be ended.Some time after, she married a farmer, whose propertyadded to her industry, rendered them very comfortable,and able often to assist the needy, and whose instructiveconversation strengthened her, and her friend AnneBrowne, who remained with her in the faith and hopethey had before received.Mary lived many years, a blessing to her family andthe neighbourhood. She had some trials, but her faithin Jesus, with the prospect of “ an eternal weight ofglory,’’ made her count them all but “ light afflictions.”—Through God’s mercy, she endured to the end, in theways of faith and holiness, and she died in peace, rejoic¬ing in Christ Jesus, who hath conquered death.Dear Reader—Permit a few words now to be address¬ed to yourself.—Perhaps you are not possessed of a bible.O! then endeavour to obtain one. If you were con-8demned by the laws of your country for some capitaloffence, how desirous would you be to hear the news ofpardon, if such were sent you. The law of God, andyour own conscience tell you, you have sinned. Whocan forgive sins, or even point out the way of pardon andpeace, but the God you have offended? In his word isthe message of mercy. How then should you desire thepossession of such a treasure.But it may be, you have the bible, but neglect to readand study it. O! why will you starve in the midst ofplenty? Why will you “ perish for lack of knowledge,”while you possess a book, which is “ able to make youw’ise un^) salvation, through faith, which is in ChristJesus?”—or, are you a constant reader of God’s word?—then ask yourself, what have you learned from it?—has it taught you that you are a wretched sinner, andunable to merit mercy?—have you learned from it, thesufficiency and suitableness of Jesus the Saviour, to suchas you are?—has it taught you to rest all your hope forsalvation on him, who died for the ungodly?—Do youlook for the forgiveness of your sins, not on account ofyour prayers, tears, or deservings of any kind, but“ through Jesus.’’—Acts xiii. 38. And does hislove constrain you to keep his commandments, to“ live not to yourself, but to him who died and roseagain.” If this be your case, “ Blessed art thou, forflesh and blood hath not revealed these things unto thee,but the Father which is in heaven.” But if you have tillnow been in ignorance, living without God in the world,to-day, if you will hear his voice, harden not your heart,but “ hear and your soul shall live,”J. NIVEN, PRINTER, 53, PRINCE’S STREET.