Daniel O’Rourke’sWONDERFULVOYAGE TO THE MOON.ALS.O,Master and Man 5OR,The Adventures of Billy Mac Daniel.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.e'dihiioH'O fai : Cjd-nsizazcj •XOOK miT OT 30A’/0JllfilC I) ■fjroihiitoO oel/l yliia lo esrjjrmijA siiTDANIEL O’ROURKE'SWonderful Voyage to the Moon.' People may have heard of the renowned adven-t tures of Daniel O’Rourke but how few are therev who know that the cause of all his perils, abovei and below, was neither more nor less than hisj having slept under the walls of the Phooka’sL tower. Iknew the man well; he lived at the bot-»i tom of Hungry flill, just at the right hand sidejc of the road as you go towards Bantry. An oldli( man was he at the time that he told me the story,if with gray hair, and a red nose; and it was on the| 25th of June, 1813, that I heard it from his ownI lips, as he sat smoking his pipe under the old pop¬lar tree, on as fine an evening as ever shone fromthe sky. I was going to visit the caves in Dursey|i Island, having spent the morning at GlengarifF.‘ I am often axed to tell it, sir,’ said he, *■ soII that this is not the first time. The master’s son,you see, had come from beyond foreign parts inFranee and Spain, as young gentlemen used togo, before Buonaparte or any such was heard of;and sure enough there was a dinner given to all4the people on the ground, gentle and simple, highand low, rich and poor. The ould gentlemenwere the gentlemen, after all% ^a^ipg ^yopr ly>n- !oufVpre&erttte ^FhC^’dVwearm tt Wd/a little, to 'be sure, and,<- m^y ^eftjg.yg one a cut crf a whipnow and then, but we were no losers by it in theend;—and they wererstfeasy and civil, and kept !suclvrattling houses,radd thousands,of weledmesiandtliere \yas no grinding for rent, and fdw ageuts}and theca, jvas hardiy a tenant on the; estate thatdid not taste ofrhis landlord's bounty often andoften ip fhe yeprsJ-jH-but ndwdfs anofher thing *po matter for that, sit, for. I’d better be tellingyou my story. |‘Well, we htid every'thing; of the best, andplenty of it; pnd wji atd^ and;we drank, and wedanQedv pnd the young master by. the Same tokendanced with Peggy Batry, frohi the Bothereen—.a lovply young couple they were, though theyare |)pth long enough now. To make a longStory short, I got, as a body may say! the samdthing as tipsy almost,, for I can’t remember everat all, no ways, how I left the place; only I didleavtfit that’s ceifain. Well, I thought, for allthat, in myself, I’d just step to Molly Cronohan’s,the fairy woman, to speak a word about the jbracket heifer that was bewitched ; and so as Iwas crossing the stepping stones at the ford ofBallyashenogh, and was looking up at the starsarid blessing myself—for why ? it was Lady-day.I missed my foot, and souse I fell into the wa¬ter. ‘ Death alive !’ thought I, 6 I’ll be drownednow 1’ However, I began swimming, swimming,swimming away for the dear life, till at last I gotashore, somehow or other, but rtever the one ofme can tell how, upon a dissolute island.I Wabdefed and wandered dbout there, with¬out knowing where I w'andered, until at last Igot into a big bog. The moon was shining asbright as day, or your fair lady’s eyes, sir, (withyour pardon for mentioning Her,) and I lookedeast and west, and north and south, and everyway, and nothing did I see but bog, bog, bog;I could never find out how I got into it; and myheart grew cold with fear, for sure and certain Iwas that it Would be my barrin place. So I satdowm upon a stone which, as good" luck wouldhave it, was’ close by me, and I began to-scratchmy Head and sitfg the Ullagon—when all of a[sudden thfe moon ‘grew black, and I looked up,and saw something for all the world as if it wasmoving dow>n between me and it, and I couldnot tell what it was. Down it came with apounce, and looked at me full in the face; andwhat was it but an eagle ? as fine a one as everflew from- the kingdom of Kerry. So he lookedat me in the face, and says he to me, ‘ DanielO’Rouke,’ says he; ‘ hdW do ybti do?’* ‘ VeryI thank you, sir,’ says I: ‘ I hope you’re* *11;’ wondering out of my senses all the timenow an eagle came to speak like a Christian.‘ What brings you here, Dan ?’ says he. * Noth¬ing at all, sir,’ says I: ‘ only I wish I was safe 'home again.’ ‘ Is it out of the island you wantto go, Dan ?’ says he. ‘ ’Tis sir,’ says I: so I upand told him how I had taken a drop too much,and fell into the water; how I swam to the island;and how I got into the bog and did not know myway out of it. ‘ Dan,’ says he, after a minute’sthought, ‘ though it is very improper for you toget drunk on Dady-day, yet as you are a decentsober man, who tends mass well, and never flingsstones at me or mine, nor cries out after us inthe fields—my life for yours,’ says he;‘so getup on my back, and grip me well fqr fear you’dfall off, and I’ll fly you out of the bog,’—I amafraid, says. I, your honour’s making game of me;for who ever heard of riding a horseback on aneagle before ? ‘ Pon the honour of a gentleman,says he, putting his right foot on his breast I amquite in earnest: and so now either take my offeror starve in the bog—besides, I see that your 1weight is sinking the stone.It was true enough as he said, for I found the ,stone every minute going from under me. I hadno choice: so thinks I to myself, faint heart neverw on fair lady, and this is fair persuadanee;—I7[I thank your honour, says I, for the load of yourit civility: and I’ll take your kind offer: I there-p fore mounted upon the back of the eagle, and heldi him tight enough by the throat, and up he flewI in the air like a lark, Little I knew the trick hei was going to serve me, Up—up—up—God: knows how far up he flew. Why, then said I toi him—thinking he did not know the right roadj home—very civilly, because why was in his)} power entirely sir, says I, please your honour s! glory, and with humble submission to your bet-; ter judgment, if you’d fly down a bit, you’re nowjust over my cabin, and I could be put down; there, and many thanks to your worship.Arrah, Dan, said he, do you think me a fool ?I Look down in the next field, and don’t you seetwo men and a gun? By my word it would beno joke to be shot this way, to oblige a drunkenblackguard, that I picked up off a could stone ina bog. Bother you, said I to myself, but I didnot speak out, for where was the use? Well, sir,up he kept, flying, flying, ai d 1 asking him everyminute to fly down, and all to no use. Wherein the world are you going, sir? says I to him.^-Hold your tongue, Dan, says he; mind your ownbusiness, and don’t be interfering with the busi¬ness of other people—Faith, this is my business,I think, says I. Be quiet, Dan, says he; so Isaid no more.3At last where should we come to, but to themoon itself. Now you can't see it from this, butthere is, or there was in my time, a reaping-hooksticking but of the side of the moon, this way,(drawiilg the figure on the ground, with the endof his stick.)Dan said the eagle. I’m tired with this longfly; I had no notion 'twas so far. And my lordjsir, said I, who in the world axed you to fly sofaV—was it I? did hot I beg, and pray, and beiseech you to stbp half ap hour ago? There’s noUse talking, Dan, said he ; I’m tired bad enough,so you must get off, and sit downvon the mooji-until I rest myself. Is it sit down ori the moori^said I; is it upon that little round thinly thenj?why, then, sure I’d fall off, in a'minute, ar.d bekilt and split, and Sniailied all td bits ; you are aVile deceiver,—so yob are. Not at all, Dan, Saidhe : you can catch fast hold of the reaping-hook,that s sticking out of the side of the moon, and’twill keep you up. I won’t, then,, said TV Maybe not, said he, quite quiet. If you don’t, ntyman, I shall just give you a shake, and one slapof my wdng, and send you down to the ground,where every bone in your body will be smashedaS small as a drop of dew bh a cabbage-leaf inthe morning. Why, then, I’m in a fine way,said I to myself, ever to have come alone withthe likes of you, and so giving him a hearty curseuin Irisfy, for fear he’d know what I said, I got ofthis back with a heavy heart, took a hold of thereaping-hook, and sat down upon the moon, anda mighty cold seat it was, I can tell you that.When lie had me there fairly landed, he turne4about on me, and said, Good morning to you,paniel O’Rourke, said he; I think I’ve nickedyou fairly now. You robbed my nest last year,(twas true enough for him, but how he found itput is hard to say,) and in return you are freelywelcome -to cool your heels dangling upon themoon like a cockthrow.Is that all, and is this the way you leave me,you brute, ypu ? says I. You ugly unnaturalbaste, and is this,the way,you serve me. at last?Bad luck to yourself, with your hooked nose, andto all your breed, you blackguard. ’Twas all tono manner of use: he spread out his great bigwings, burst put a laughing, and flew away likelightning. I bawled after him to stop; but!might have called and bawled for ever, withouthis minding me. Away he went, and I neversaw him from that day to this—Sorrow, fly awaywith him ! You may be sure I was in 9,'disconso¬late conditipn? and kept roaring out for the baregrief, when all at once a door, opened right inthe middle of the moon, creaking on its hingesas if it had not been opened for a month before.I suppose they never thought, of greasing ’em,10and out there walks who do you think but theman in the moon himself? I knew him by hisbush.Good morrow to you, Daniel O’Rourke, saidhe; How do you do? Very well, thank yourhonour, said I. I hope your honour’s well.What brought you here, Dan ? said he. So Itold him how I was a little overtaken in liquor atthe master’s, and how I was cast on a dissoluteisland, and how I lost my way in the bog andhow the thief of an eagle promised to fly me outof it, and how instead of that he had fled me upto the moon.Dan, said the man in the moon, taking a pinchof snuff when I was done, you must not stay here.Indeed, sir, says f, ’tis much against my will I’mhere at all; but how am I to go back ? That’syour business, said he, Dan : mine is to tell youthat here you fnust not stay, so be off in lessthan no time. I’m doing no harm, says I, only'holding on hard by the reapihg-hook, lest I falloff. That’s what you must not do, Dan, sayshe. Pray, sir, says I, may I ask how many youare in family, that you would not give a poortraveller lodgings; I'm sure ’tis hot so oftenyou’re troubled with strangers coining to see you,for ’tis a long way. I’m by myself, Dan, sayshe; but you’d better let go the reaping-hook.Faith, and with your leave, says I, I’ll not let11go the grip, and the more you bid* me, the moreI won’t let go: so I will. You had better, Dan,says he again. Why, then, my little fellow, saysI, taking the whole weight of him with my eyefrom head to foot, there are two words to thatbargain ; and I’ll not budge, but you may if youlike. We’ll see how that is to be, says he; andI back he went, giving the door such a great bangafter him, (for it was plain he was huffed,) thatI thought the moon and all would fall down withI it.Well, I was preparing myself to try strengthwith him, when back again he comes, with thekitchen cleaver in his hand, and without sayinga word, he gives two bangs to the handle of thereaping-hook that was keeping me up, and whap Iit came in two. Good morning to you, Dansays the spiteful little old blackguard, when hesaw me cleanly falling down with a bit of thehandle in my hand; I thank you for your visit,and fair weather after you, Daniel. I had hotime to make any answer to him, for I was tum¬bling over and oVer, and rolling and roiling atthe rale of a fox-huntw God help me, says I,but this is a pretty pickle for a decent man to beseen in at this time of night; I am now sold fairly.The word was not out of my mouth when whiz!what should fly by close to my ear but a flock ofwild geese; all the way from my own bog oftfullyasheenough, else how should they knowme ? the ould gander, who was their general,turning about his head, cried out to me, Is thatyou, Dan ? The same, said I, not a bit daunteduow nt'what he said, for I was by this time usedtp. all kinds of bedevilment, and, besides, I knew !him o£rould. Good morrow to you, says, he, ,Daniel OTlourke: how are you in health thismorning? Very well, sir, says L I thank youkindly, drawing my breath, for I was mightily,in want of some. I hope your honour’s the’same. I think’iis falling you are, Daniel, sayshe. You may say tbartsir, says 1. And whereare you going all the way so fast ? said the gan¬der, §o I told hirn how I had taken the drop,and how I came on the island, and how I lost'iny way in jthe bog, and howr the thief of an eagleflew me up to the moon, and how the man in themoon turned me out. Dan, said he, I’ll saveyou: put your hand out and catch me by the leg,and I’ll fly you home. Sweet is your hand in apitcher of honey, my jewel, says I, though all thetime I thought in myself that I don’t much trustyou; but there wras no help, so I caught the gan¬der by the leg, and away I and the other geeseflew after him as fast as hops.We flew, and we flew and we flew, until wecame right over the wide ocean. I knew it wed,for I saw Cape Clear to my right hand, sticking j13up out of the water. Ah ! my lord, said I to thegoose, for I thought it host to keep a civil tonguein my head any way, fly to land if you please.It is impossible, you see, Dan, said he, for awhile, because you see we are going to Arabia.To Arabia ! said I; that’s surely some place inforeign parts, far away. Oh ! Mr Goose : whythen, to be sure. I’m a man to be pitied amongyou—Whist, whist, you fool, said he, hold yourtongue: I tell you Arabia is a very decent sortof place, as like West Carbery as one egg is likeanother, only there is a little more sand there.Just as we were talking, a ship hove in sight,scudding so beautiful before the wind: Ah ! then,sir, said I, will you drop me; on the ship, if youplease? We are not fair over it, said he. W’eare, said I. We are not, said he: If I droppedyou now, you would go splash into the sea. Iwould not, sayfe I; t know better than that, forit is just clean under us, so let me drop now atonce.If you must, you must said he. There, takeyour own way; and he opened his claw, andfaith he was. right-^-sure enough I came downplump into thSrery bottom of the salt sea ! Downto the very bottom I wept, and I gave myselfup then for,ever, when a whale walked up- to me,scratching himself after his night’s rest, and look,ed me full in the face, and never the word did he14»ay; but lifting up Ins tail, lie splashed me allover again with the cold salt water, till therewasn’t a dry stitch upon my whole carcase;and I heard somebody saying—’twas a voice Iknew too—Oet up, you drunken brute, out ofthat: and with that I woke up, and there wasJudy with a tub full of water, which she wassplashing all over me ;—for, rest her soul 1 thoughshe was a good wife, she never could bear to seeme in drink, and had a bitter hand of her own.Get up, said she again; and of all places inthe parish, would no place sarve your turn to liedown Upon but under the ould walls of Carriga-phooka ? ah uneasy resting I am sure you had ofit. And sure enough I had; for I wais fairly !both4' ed out of my senses with eagles, and menof the moons, and flying ganders, and whales,driving me through bogs, and up to the moon*and down to the bottom of the great ocean. IfI was in drink ten times over, long would it bebefore I’d lie down in the same spot again, I knowthat.Master and Man ;OR,The Adventures of Billy Mac Daniel.Btlly Mac Daniel was once as likely a15young man as ever shook his brogue at a patron,emptied a quart, or handled a shillelagh ; fearingfor nothing but the want of drink; caring for no¬thing but who should pay for it; and thinking ofnothing but how to make fun over, it; drunk orsober, a word and a blow was ever the wav withBilly Mac Daniel; and a mighty easy way it isof either getting into or of ending a dispute.More is the pity that, through the means of histhinking, and fearing, and caring for nothing,this same Billy Mac Daniel fell into bad com¬pany ; for surely the good people are the worstof all company any one could come across.It so happened that Billy was going home oneclear.frosty night not long after Christmas; themoon was round and fright; but although it was-as fine a night as heart could wish for, he feltpinched with the cold. By my word, chattereiBilly, a drop of good liquor would be no bad thingto keep a man's soul from freezing, in him; andI wish I hud a full measure of the best.• ‘Never wish it twice, Billy, said a little man ina three-cornered hat, bound all about with goldlace, and with great silver buckles in his shoes,so big that it was a wonder how he could carrythem and he held put a glass as big as himself,filled with as good liquor, as ever eye looked onor lip tasted.Success, my little fellow, said Billy Mac Daniel,16nothing daunted, though well he knew the littleman to belong to the good people; here’s yourhealth, any way, and thank you kindly; no mat¬ter who pays for the drink ; and he took the glassand drained it to the very bottom, without evertaking a second breath to it.Success, said the little man : and you’re hearti¬ly welcome, Billy; but don’t think to cheat meas you have done others,—out with your purseand pay me like a gentleman.Is it I pay you? said Billy ; could I not justtake you up and put you in my pocket as easilyas a blackberry ?Billy Mac Daniel, said the little man, gettjngvery angry, you shall be my servant for. sevenyears and a day, and that is the way I will bepaid ; so make ready to follow me.When Billy heard this, he began to be verysorry for having used such bold words towardsthe little man ; and he felt himself yet could/iottell how, obliged to follow the little man the live¬long night about the country, up and down, andover hedge and ditch, and through oog andbrake without any rest.When morning began to dawn, the little man ,turned round to him and said, You may now, {go jhome, Billy, but on your peril don’t fail to meetme in the Fort-field to-night; or if you do, it ipayhe the worse for you in the long run. If I find17you a good’ servant, you will find me an indulgentmaster.Home went Billy Mac Daniel, and though hewas tired and weary enough never a wink of sleepcould he get for thinking of the little man ; buthe was afraid not to do his bidding, so up he gotin the evening, and avVay he went to the Fort-field. He \Vas not long there before the littleman came towards him and said, Billy, I want togo a long journey to night ; so saddle One of myhorses and you may saddle another for yourself,as you are to go along with me, and may be tiredlifter your walk last night.- Billy thoug'ht this very considerate of his mas¬ter, and thUnked him accordingly: But, Said heIf I may he sO bold, sir, I would, ask which istire way to your stable, for never a thing do Isee but the ‘fort here, artd the old thorn-tree inthe corner of the field, and the stream runningat the bottom of the hill, with the bit of bog overagainst us.Ask no questions, Billy, said the little man,but go over to that bit of bog, and bring me twoof the strongest rushes you can find.Billy did accordingly, wondering what the littleman would be at; and he picked out two of thestoutest rushes he could find, with a little bunchof brown blossom stuck at each side of each, aridbrought them barik to his master.18Get up, Billy, said the little man, taking oneof the rushes from him and stridding across it.Where shall I get up, please your honour? jsaid Billy.Why, upon horseback, like me, to be sure, said jthe little man.Is it after making a fool of me you’d be, saidBilly, bidding me get a horse-back upon that bitof a rush ? May be you want to persuade me thatthe rush I pulled but while ago out of the bogover there, is a horse ?Up 1 up ! and no words, said the little man,looking very angry; the best horse you ever rodewas but a fool to it. So Billy, thinking all thiswas in joke, and fearing to vex his master, strad¬dled across the rush; Borram 1 Borram! Borram!cried the little man three times, ( which, in Eng¬lish, means to become great,) and Billy did thesame after him; presently the rushes swelled upinto fine horses, and away they vyent full speed ;;but Billy, who had put the rush between his legs,;without much minding'how he did it, found him¬self sitting on horseback the wrong way, which,:was rather awkward, with his face to the horse’s,!tail; and so quickly had his steed started off with lhim, that he had no power to turn round, and .there was therefore nothing for it but to hold onby the tail. /At last they came to their journey’s end, andstopped at the gate of a fine house : Now, Billy,said the little man, do as you see me do, and fol-i low me close: but as you do not know youri horse’s head from his tail, mind that your own headdoes not spin round until you can’t tell whetherri you are standing on it or on your heels • for re-|i member that old liquor, though able to make a| cat speak, can make a man dumb.The little man then said some queer kind ofwords, out of which Billy could make no kind ofI' meaning; but he contrived to say them after himi1 for all that and in they both went through the| key-hole of the door, and through one key-holeI after another, until they got into the wine-cellari which was well stored with all kinds of wine.The little man fell to drinking as hard as heI: could, and Billy, no way disliking the example,did the same. The best of masters are you,: surely, said Billy to him; no matter who is theJ I next; and well pleased will I be with you: 'ser¬vice if you continue to give me plenty to drink,1 I have made no bargain with ) ou, said the lit-;; tie man, and will make none; but up and followi me. Away they went, through key-hole afteri key-hole; and each mounting upon the rush whichm he left at the hall door, scampered off, kicking# the clouds before them like snow-balls, as soon: as the wotds, Borram, Borram, Borram, hadj passed their lips.When they came back to the Fort-field, thelittle man dismissed Billy, bidding him to be therethe next night at the same hour. Thus did they 1go on, night after night, shaping their course one 1night here, and another night there—sometimes jnorth, and sometimes east, and sometimes south, 1.until there was not a gentleman’s wine-cellar in^ll Ireland they had not visited, and could tellthe flavour of every wine in it as well—ay, bet¬ter than the buttler himself. IOne nigFt when Billy Mac Daniel met thelittle man as usual in the Fort-field and was going Ito the bog to fetch the horses for their journey, jhis master said to him, Billy, I shall want an- >other horse to-night, for may be we may bringback more company with us than we take. So ^Billy, who now knew better than to question any 1order given to him by his master, brought a third 11rush, much wondering who it might be that '*would travel back in the company, and whether f'he was about to have a fellow servant. If I have, ; 11thought Billy, he shall go and fetch the horses jfrom the bog every night; for I don’t see why I “am not, every inch of me, as good a gentlemanas my master.Well, away they wmnt, Billy leading the third ! *«horse, and never stopped till they came to a snug , 1farmer’s house in the country Limerick, close Vunder the old castle of Carrigoggunniel, that was2ibuilt, they Sa? ly the great Brian Boru. With¬in the house there was ^reat carousing goingfprvr&rri, and the little man stopped outside forSome time to listen; thfen turning round all of aSudden, said, Billy, I will be a thousand yearsold to-morrow !God. bless us, sir, said Billy, will you ?Don’t say these words again, Billy, said thelittle man, dr you will be my ruin for ever.—blow, Billy, as I will be a thousand years in theWorld td-morrow, I think it is full time for me toget matried.I think so too, without any kind of doubt atall, said Billy, if ever you mean to marry.And to that purpose, said the littlfe' man, havei coihe all the way to Carrigoggunniel: for in thishouse, this very night, is young Darby kiley go¬ing to be married to Bridget Rooney ; and as sheis a tall and comely girl, and has come of decentpeople, I think of marrying her myself, and tak¬ing her off with me.1 And what will Darby Riley say to that? saidBilly ?Silencel said the little man, pbttingon a mightysevere look; I did not bring you here with me toask questions; and without holding farther argu¬ment, he began saying the queer words, whichhad the pdwer of passing him through the key-fioieVI ,V ;as free as air, and which Billy thought himselfmighty clever to be able to say after him.In they both went; and for the better viewing |the company, the little man perched himself upas nimbly as a cock-sparrow upon one ot the bigbeams which went across the house overall theirheads, and Billy did the same upon another fac¬ing him ; not being much accustomed to roostingin such a place, his legs hung down as untidy asmay be, and it w^s quite clear he had not taken lipattern after the way in which the little man had Itbundled himself up together. If the little man ithad been a tailor all his life, he could not have Isat more contented by upon his haunches.There they were, both master and naan, look¬ing down upon the fun going forward-r-and un¬der them were the priest and piper—and the farther of Darby Biley, with Darby’s two brothersand his uncle’s son—and there were both fatherand the mother pf Bridget Booney, and proudenough the old couple were that night of theiffidaughter, as gopd right they had—and her four,sisters with bran new ribbons in their caps, and:her three brothers all looking as clean and cleveras any three boys in Munster—and there werejuncles and aunts, and gossips and cousins enough |besides to make a full house of it—and plentywas there to eat and drink on the table for every!23one of them, if they had been double the num¬ber.Now it happened, just as Mrs Rooney hadi helped his reverence to the first cut of the pig’stjhead which was placed before her, beautifullyubolstered up with white savoys, that the brideigave a sneeze which made every one at the table(start, but not a soul said “ God bless us.” Allthinking that the priest would have done so, ashe ought if he had done his duty, no one wishedto take the word out of his mouth, which unfor-i jtunately was preoccupied with pig’s head and■ greens. And after a moment’s pause the fun andH merriment of the bridal feast went on without the;;i pious benediction.t Of this circumstance both Billy and his master( were no inattentive spectators from their exaltedstations. Hal exclaimed the little man, throw-. ing one leg from under him with a joyous flourish,; land his eye twinkled with a strange light, whilstijhis eyebrows became elevated into the curvatureI of Gothic arches—Ha 1 said he, leering down ati the bride, and then up at Billy, I have half ofrfi her now, surely. Let her sneeze but twice more,ft and she is mine, in spite of priest, mass-book and( Darby Riley.Again the fair Bridget sneezed; but it wasso gently, and she blushed so much, that few; except the little man took, or seemed to take.r 2iany notice r to(t n6 one thought of saying, “ Godbless us.”At this critical moment the bride gave a third'sneeze, and Billy roared out with all his might,“ God save-us !” No sooner was it uttered, than!the little man,-his face glowing with rage anddisappointment, sprung from the beam on whichher had perched himself, arid shrieking out in theshrill voice of a cracked bagpipe, I discharge youmy service, Billy Mae Daniel—take that for yorit'wage’s, gave poor Billy a most furiotis kick-in thi‘back, which seiifchKs hrifortunate servant sprawiding upon his face and hands right in themiddkT>fthe Suppeftahle. -If Billy was astonished, how much more sowas every one of the company into which lie wa*thrown with &o little ceremony; but when theyheard his story, Fathen Cooney laid down hisknife and fork, and married the young couple outof hand with all speed; and Billy Mac Danieldanced the Rinka at their wedding, and plentj[jdid he drink at it too, which was what lie though^more of than-dancing.FINIS. . ,