THEBEGGAR’S PETITION,ByDr. PERCIVAL.WITH ADDITIONS,AND TWO ORIGINAL POEMS,VIZ.ABSENCE,ANDTHE COACH AND CART.BY T. J. GUION.Mail HOSPITALITY/ iUu fame divine!The heart-felt joyt of SELF-COMPLACENCY are dint.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR AND SOLD BYBrafti & Reid,THEBEGGAR’S PETITION,BY Dr. PERCIVAL.WITH ADDITIONSB Y F. J. G U I ON,TEACHER OF ELOCUTION.Bereav’d of friends, inheritance, and reft,An aged mortal, plaintive, begg’d his way;And fpurn’d by grandeur, when he made requeft.Thus, at the door of worth was heard to fay.“ Pity the forrows of a poor' old man,“ Whofe trembling limbs have borne him to your door,“ Whofe days are dwindled to the fliorteft fpan,“ Oh! give relief, and Heaven will blefs your ftore.HI.“ Thofe tatter’d clothes my poverty befpeak,“ Thofe hoary locks proclaim my lengthen’d years;“ And ev’ry furrow, in my grief-worn cheek** Has been the channel to a flood of tears!( 3 )IV.“ Yon houfe, erefted on the rifmg ground,“ With tempting afpe<SI drew me from my road;“ For plenty there a refidence has found,“ And grandeur a magnificent abode!“ Hard is the fate of the infirm and poor!“ There as I crav’d a morfel of their bread,“ A pamper’d menial drove me from the door,“To feek a fhelter in a humbler died.“Oh! take me to your hofpitable dome:“ Keen blows the wind, and piercing is the cold!“ Short is my pafiage to the friendly tomb,“ For I am poor and miferably old.VII.“ Shou’d I reveal the fources of my grief,“ If foft humanity e’er touch’d your breaft,“ Your hands wou’d not withhold the kind relief,“ And tears of pity wou’d not be repreft.“ Heav’n fends misfortunes: why fhou’d we repine“ ’Tis Heaven has brought me to this Hate you fee,“ And your condition may be foon like mine,“ The child of forrow and of mifery!( 4 )IX.“ A little farm was my paternal lot,“ Then like the lark, I fprightly hail’d the morn !“ But, ah! oppreflion drove me from my cot,“ My cattle dy’d, and blighted was my corn!“ My daughter, once the comfort of my age,“ Lur’d by a villain from her native home;“ Is call abandon’d on the world’s wide ftage,“ And doom’d in fcanty poverty to roam.“ My tender wife, fweet foother of my care,“ Struck with fad anguifh at the Item decree,u Fell, ling’ring fell, a vidtim to defpair!“ And left the world to wretchednefs and me.XII.“ Pity the forrows of a poor old man,“ Whofe trembling limbs have borne him to your door,“ Whofe days are dwindled to the Ihorteft fpan,“ Oh! give relief, and Heav’n will blefs your ftore.”xm.“ Enter, my aged friend !” reply’d the hoft.Enter my humble manfion—child of wo!“ No pompous grandeur does my table boaft—r“ Such as I have, I freely will bellow—”( s y/,XIV.With grateful tears, the fuppliant bow’d his head,With fteps enliven’d, trod the winding Hair—The wholefome viands, hofpitably fpread.Cheat’d his old heart, and foften’d all his care.Hail! genial warmer of the human heart!Hail Hofpitality ! thou flame divine!—Whether at feftive board thy bounties fliine,Or to the wo-worn breaft thou doll impart!The weary traveller thy value knows,Sorrow is footh’d—affli&ion too, made light:Through tbee, misfortune’s cloud appeareth bright,And pining want, with grateful feeling glows 1—Thy manfion’s bleft, in bleflings to mankind—Bellowing thus, as Heav’n at firlt decreed—Thine all the pleafures of the godlike deed—Exalted, pure, congenial and refin’d!Hail Hcfpitality! thou flame divine!The heart-felt joys of filf-complactncy are thine!ABSENCE“ DESTROYS NOT ROOTED LOVE.*’r.Though nature in a thoufand ways.Her beauties to mine eye difplays—■Yet ah ! thofe charms are all in vain,1 figh to meet my love again.ILThough pleafure gay, with all her fports,Myev’ry fenfe with fancy courts;—-Her ftrong allurements I diftlain,—I figh to meet my love again !111.Though fnendjbip here is llrongly Ihewr.To cafe my heart, my conftant moan—Yet Hill I inwardly complain—I figh to meet my love again.IV.Though beauty often may furprize,And for a moment catch my eyes ;It only helps t’ increafe my pain—I figh to meet my love again.i. ? )1The tumbling torrents boiling roar.The winter-fhrouded lifelefs trees,The nipping frofts mildewing hoar.My fad defponding fancy pleafe.VIII.Joy’s mortal‘bane, falfe womankind!For you on Avon’s banks I’ll mourn;Nor foothing folace hope to find.But in the iilent peaceful urn.VERSES WRITTEN IN THE HIGH CHURCHYARD, GLASGOW, WHERE THE AUTHORNOW LIES.Grieve not ye wife, though in this yardSome hundred thoufands lie;The juft inherit their reward.Are happieft when they die.II.When wicked men to graves defcendNo more they’ll plague mankind;On earth that life Ihould never endWas ne’er by heaven defign’d.( 8 )The Cart addrefs’d—“ Thou low-liv’d thing—Faugh! what a horrid fcent you bring—“ Do, pray be gone—nor longer hurt“ My nofe refin’d—with filthy dirt—“ But t’other day, your horfe’s heels“ Befpatter’d my new painted wheels—“ Begone thou wretch—go, carry hay,“ Your dung, your ftraw, your gravel—clay—“ Keep diftance due—nor dare approach“ Theprefence of your Mailer’s Coach—”With modeft tone, the Cart replied,“ Thou gaudy thing! I fpurn thy pride.“ Yet, pompous gewgaw! know from me,“ My labour’s the fupport of thee!—“ Did I not early toil, and late,“ Thou foon wouldft drop thy boafted Bate—“ Did I not groan beneath manure,“ The equipage wou’d not be fure—“ And Ihould I.not the mart attend,“ Thy dignity wou’d have an end—“ I grant, thou haft fome little ufe;“ But why throw out fuch lowabufe?“ Learn reafon—adl thy proper part—t< We both are fervants—Coaci or Cart.