* MEMOIRSOF THEf LIFE AND GALLANT SERVICESOFAdmiral Lord Nelfon,Containing a full Statement ofTHE VARIOUS BATTLES,{One Hundred Id Twenty-four In Number)IN WHICH HE HAS BEEN ENGAGED ;AND THEMELANCHOLY ACCOUNT OF HIS DEATH,On the lift of Ofiober, 1805,Whilft Fighting for his King and Country,“ A Man I19 was—his Country's Uriel l End pride—“ Who greatly iiv’d, and crown’d with glory—died.”Minted by j. &. m. robertson, saltmarket, xsc<-L I F EO FLORD NELSON.HORATIO NELSON was the fourth fon ofEdward Nelfon, Reftar of Burnham Thorpe,in the county of Norfolk, and was born the 29thof September, 1758. The high fchool at Norwichhaving inftilled the firft principles of learning into 'his afpiring nlind, he was removed to North Wal¬tham. On the appearance of hoftilities with Spain,relative to the Falkland iflands, in 1770, he leftthe fchool at North Waltham, at the age of twelveyears, to go on board the Reafonsble of fixty-fourguns, commanded by his maternal unde, CaptainSuckling. The difpute between the coort of Lon¬don and Madrid being adjufted, our young marinerwas feet on board a Weft-India fhip. Returningafter a voage in 1772, his uncle received him onboard the Triumph. He had acquired, in the mer-chant-fervice, a praflical knowledge of feamaothip;but had conceived an unaccountable prejudice a-gainft the naval fervice. That feemingly rooted *-verfion to the Navy, was, however, lb fuccefsfullycombated by Captain Suckling, that he at lengthbecame reconciled to the idea of fervice on-board aking’s (hip.' In April 1773, a voyage of difeoverywas undertaken by Captain Phipps, afterwardsLord Mulgrave, towards the North Polo. On thisoccafion, inftruftions were iflued, that no boys(hould* >J •The Life and gallant Services, &r. 3{hotild be received onboard; but the interprifiogHoratio was fo anxious to be of the party, that hefblicited to be appointed cockfwain to Captain Lut-widge; and his requelf was readily granted. Thefollowing anecdote may ferve as a proof of the coo!intrepidity which our young marinei1 poileiTed. I»thofe high northren latitudes, the nights are gene¬rally clear: During one of them, not with (handingthe extreme bitternefs of the cold, young Nelfonwas milling, sad every fearch was inftandy madein quell of him, and it was imagined he was loll;when, lo! as the r.*y« of the rifing dm opened thediftant horizon, to the aftonhhment of his mefs-mates, he was diicerned at a coofiderable diftanceon the ice, armed with a Angle muflcct, in anxiouspurfuit of an immenfe hear. The lock of the piecehaving been injured, it would not go off; he hadtherefore purfued the animal in hopes of tiring him,and at length was able to efFefV his purpofe withthe butt end. Being repremanded for leaving the(hip without leave, the young hero replied, “ Iwifhed. Sir, to get the (kin for my father.” Re¬turning to England, he obtained a birth in the Sea-Ilorle of twenty gans, and failed in it with a fqua-dron to the Eaft-Indies. In this ftiip Mr. Nelfonwas ftatiooed to watch in the foretop, and after¬wards he was placed on the quarter-deck. In thisvefiel he vifited aimoft every part of the Eaft-In-dies, from Bengal to Buflbra. A feries of ill healthhowever, rendered it expedient for him to returnto England; in confequence of which, the Captaincauled him to be conveyed hither. On the 8th of. April, 1777, Mr. Nelfon pafled his examination forthe rank of Lieutenant, and the next day receivedhis commillion as fecond of the Loweftoffe, of thir¬ty-two guns. The following anecdote concerningour hero, ought not to be fupprefled. In a ftronggale of wind, and a heavy fea, the Loweftoffe cap¬tured1 .• ■- r. - . •, & , mi*.'4 Ths Life and gallant Servicestured an American letter of marque. The Captainordered the firil Lieutenant to board her, which hereadily attempted, but was not able to effeft, ow-iug to the tremendous fea running. On his returnto the fliip, Captain Locker exclaimed, “ Have I“ then no oificer who can board the prize ?” Onhearing this, the mafter immediately ran to thegang-way, in order to jump into the boat; whenLieutenant Nelfbn fuddenly flopped him, Lying,“ It is my turn now; if I come back it will be“ yours.” In 1778 he was appointed third Lieute¬nant of the Briftol; from which, by rotation, he be¬came. the firft. He obtained bis poft rank on the1 ith of June, 1779, and was appointed to commandthe Hinchinhroke. In July, 1780, an expeditionwas reibived on for the defhuftion of Fort Juan, inthe gulph of Mexico, when Captain Nelibn was ap¬pointed to command the naval department, and Ma¬jor Polfon the military; in effecting this arduous fer-vice, Captain Nelfon displayed his ufual intrepidity^which, according 'o the Major’s declaration, was theprincipal caufe of our fuccefsin reducing Fort Juan.After a variety of fervice, in which nothing verymaterial occured, the Boreas, which he then com¬manded, was paid off, and he retired to the perfon-age-houie of Burnham Thorpe. In 1703, he wasappointed to the Agamemnon, of fixty-four guns.At the fiegeof Calvi, in July snd Auguft, 1794, hebehaved with great intrepidity, and juftly meri^the encomiums he received from the admiral, it \mhere that a fhot from the enemy’s battery, deprivedhim of the fight of his right eye. In December 1796, -Captain Nelibn hoified his broad flag as Commo¬dore, on board La Mirierve frigate, and captured •La Sabina, of forty guns, and two hundred andeighty men, commanded by Captain Don JacoboStuart. Commodore Nelfon joined the Admiral, SirJohn Jervis, off Cape St. Vincent, on the 14th ofFebruary,cf Admiral Lord Nelfon. . 5February, juft in time to communicate the intelli¬gence relative to the force and ftate of the Spanifhfleet, and to fhift his pennant on board the Cap¬tain, of feventy-four guns, commanded by CaptainMiller.Commodore Nelfon had not removed from LaMinerve to the Captain many minuter, when, onthe evening of the (ame day, the fignal- was thrownout for the Britilh fleet ;p prepare for aft Ion ; the(hips were alfo cHrefted to keep in clofc Order dur¬ing the plight. By a bold and decifive manoeuvre,the Commodore reached the fixth fhip from the e-nemy’s rear, which bore the Spaflifh Admiral’s flag,the Santiflinia Trinidada, cf one hundred and thirty-fix guns; a fhip of four decks, reported to be thei largeft In the world. Notwithftandiijg the inequa¬lity of force, the Commodore inftantlv engaged thisI coloffal opponent; and for a confiderable rime had1 to contend not only with her, but with her fecondsi ahead and aftern, each of three decks,j; The commodore's ardour would not permit him(to remain an inaftive fpeftator of this feene. Hetherefore, as if by magic-impulfe, accompanied theij party in this attack; and.arrived in time to receivej the Ivvord of the dying commander, who had beenIf mortally wounded by the boarders.He had not been long employed in taking theif neceflary meafures to fecure this hard-earned con-Iqueft, when he found himfelf engaged in a morearduous talk. The flern of the three-decker, hisformer opponent, was placed direftly amidfhips ofthe weather-beam of the prize, San Nicholas; andthe enemy forely annoyed with mulketry the Britifhwho had hoarded the San Nicholas. The undaunt¬ed Commodore, whom no danger ever appalled,headed himlelf the aflailants in this new attack; ex»i claiming, Wtflmitjler Abbey! or glorious Victory! andfuccefs in a few minutes crowned the enterpriie.In6 ‘The Life and gallant Servicesla April, 1797, Sir Horatio Nelfon hoified hisflag as rear Admiral of the Blue, and was detachedto bring down the garrifou of Porto Ferrajo. Oathe 27th of May he fliifted his flag to the Thefeus, jand was appointed te command the inner fqttadron !at the blockade of Cadiz. During this fervice hisperlonal courage was remarkably confpieuous. Inthe attack on the Spanilh gun-boats, on the 3d ofjuly, 1797, he was boarded in his barge; on boardof which, was only his ufual complement of ten men,and the cockfwain, accompanied by Captain Free-mantle. Don Miguel Tyrefon, who commandedthe Spauilh gun-boats, in a barge rowed by twenty-fix oars and thirty men, made a moft defperate ef¬fort to overpower Sir Horatio Nelfon and his bravecompanions. The confluft was long and doubtful,and they fought hand to hand with their fwords.Eighteen of the Spaniards being killed, the com-madant and all the reft wounded, the Rear-admiralwith his gallant barge’s crew, fucceedcd. Sir JohnJervis concludes his letter to the Admiralty, datedthe 5th of July, 1797, containing an account of thisatchievement in the following words: “ Any prailef( of mine will fall very fhort of his (Admiral Nel-“ fon’s) merit!” Though the enterprife againft San¬ta Cruz did not fucceed, his Majefty’s arms acquir¬ed great luftre, as greater intrepidity was neverftiewn by both officers and men. In this attack Sir |Horatio Nelfbu loft his right arm by a cannon-fnot; 1and 246 gallant officers, marines, and leamen, werekilled, wounded, and drowned.On his firft appearance at court, his Sovereignreceived him in the moft gracious manner, and ex-P’dTed his regret, that his flare of health, and mu¬tilated perion would doubtlefs deprive the nation ofhis future fervices. Sir Horatio replied, with adignified emphafis, “ May it pleafe your Majcfty,I can never think that a lofs which the pertorm-« anceof Admiral Lord Nelfott. 7‘‘ ance of my duty has occafioned ; aud fo long asI have a foot to hand on, 1 will combat for myKing and country.”Previous to the ilTuing of a grant of icool. perannum, which fecured to this gallant officer fomepublic remuneration for the hardffiips he had en¬dured, a politive cuilom required, that a memorialof lervice ffiould be drawn up: one more brilliantnever met the eye of the Sovereign of a brave na¬tion. Sir Horatio had then actually been engagedagainlt the enemy upwards of One Hundred and‘Twenty Tunes!Great, however, as had previoufly been the fer-vices of this gallant Teaman, it was in the year j 798that a viffory of the moll important and gloriousdeicription entitled him to ffill more diffinguiffiedlaurels. The government of France had Tent anexpedition inti Egypt, and it became that of Bri¬tain to ule every effort to render it fuccdslefs. Inorder to convey to our readers the moft diftinftidea poffibie of the merits of this addon, we ffiall5 quote from a refpedtabie publication (the NavalChronicle) the narative 6f an officer concerned.^—“ Sir Horatio Nellbn had been detached by EarlSt. Viuceut into the Mediterranean with tne Van-guard, of 74 guns, the rear-admiral’s flag-ffiip, theI” Orian and Alexander of ■' \ guns, the Emerald andTerpficore frigates, and '*..l Bonne C:toy‘enne Hoopit of war. Nothing material occured to the iquadronI from the day it failed from Gibralter, which wasj on the 9th of May, till the 22d, when being in thegulph of Lyons, at two A. M. a molt violent fquall1 of wind took the Vanguard, which c-rried awayher topnaafts, and at lait her foremalt, and feparaleithe flert.The Britiiffi fquadron was then not many leaguesdifhnt from the French fleet under Bonaparte,which had-on that very day let fail from Toulon.The3 ''The Life and gallant ServicesThe fliuadron bore up for. Sardinia* the Alexandertaking the Vanguard in tow, and the Oriau lookingout a head to endeavour to get a pilot, for the pur-pofe of gaining St. Pierre’s road. On the 24th,Vvith very great difficulty, we reached that anchor¬age ; on the fourth day from our anchoring, wehad received Inch a repair that he did not think ituccefTary to fail to Naples or any other port.The fquadron reached the tendezvous on the4th of June and on the following day was joined b/La Mutine, Captain Hardy, who was charged withorders to the Admiral, and who brought the high¬ly acceptable intelligence that Captain Trowbridgebad been detached with ten fail or the line, and afifty-gun ihip, to reinforce us.' June 6. The fquad-ron was fpread, anxioufly looking out for the ex¬pected reinforcement. By a vefTel fpoke with onthat day, we were informed that feveraT fail, thenin fight were Spanifh (hips richly laden; hut prize-money was not the object of the admiral. TheAlexander, being on the look out, bopped one oftho;efhips; finding (he had on board eighty or nine¬ty prieds, driven by the French perfections andcruelties from Rome, he thought it would be anaft of humanity to permit the drip to purfqe hervoyage; and he accordingly releafed her, and re¬joined the admiral.On the 8th at noon, vte had the happinefs todifcover from the tmft head ton fail, and it was notlong before we recognHed them to be Britifh (hips ofwar, banding upon a clofe line of battle, with allfails fet. Private fignals were exchanged, and be¬fore (bn-fct the fo-much-w'ifhed-for junction wasformed, an event which was certainly facilitated bythe great profdhonai ability, judgement, and zeal®f Captain Trowbridge. The Admiral had receiv¬ed no inlhucHon what courfe he was now tp beer,and no certain information refpefting the debinationof Admiral Lord Nelfon. $of the enemy’s fleet; he was left, therefore, entire¬ly to his own judgement. He had the happinefs*however, to find, that to the Captains of his iquad-ron he had no neceffity to give diredtions, he beingin conflant readinefs for battle. The Admiralknew that the enemy had failed with a N W. wind#which naturally led him to conclude that their courfewas np the Mediterranean He fleered with thefleet offCorfica, which he reached on the i2rh ofJune. Having made the Roman coaft, we wererejoined by Li Marine, without gaining any intelli¬gence. The Admiral now determined to fleer to¬wards Naples. W-e faw M juM Veluvius on the16th, and detached Captain Trowbridge, in La Mu-tine, to obtain what information he could from SirWilliam Hamilton. He returned with a report on¬ly that the enemy were gone towards Malta. TheAdmiral now lamented that even a day had beenloft by vifiting the Bay of N iples, and determinedby the fhorteft cut to make the Faro di Miffina,vhich the fleet paflied through on the 29th, witha fair wind. Here we gained intelligence from theBririfh conful that Malta had actually furrendered.We had now hopes of being able to attack the ene¬my’s fleet at Goz-a, but on the 22d of June, LaMutine, at day-light in the morning, fpoke a Ge-nosfe brig from Malta, which gave intelligence thatthe French had failed from thence on the 18th, witha frefh gale at N. W. The Admiral now madethe fignal to bear-up and fleer to the S. E. with allpoifib'e fail. At this time we had no certain meansof alcertaining that the enemy were not bound upthe Adriatic.On the 29th of June we faw the Pharos towerof Alexandria, and continued neaping the land witha prefs of fail, till we-had a diftinft view of bothharbours; and to our general furprife and difap-pointment, wc faw not a French fhip in either. Onthe8 ■*Th10 The Life and gailant Servicesihe 4th of July, we made the coaft of Caramanea :fleering along the fogth fide of Candia, carrying aprefs of fail both night and day, wim a contrarywind. On the 18th we law the hland of Sicily,when the Admiral determined to enter the danger¬ous part of Syracufe, and immediately proceeded toget in water, &c. with ail pofiible expedition. Thiswas the firft opportunity that the Vanguard had ofreceiving water on board from the 6th of May; fothat not only the flock of that fnip, but of feveralothers of the fqnadron, was very nearly exhaufled.On the juft the fcjuadron again put to fiea. Wereceived vague accounts while at Syracufe, that theenemy’s fleet had not been feeo in the Archipelagonor the Adriatic, nor had they gone down the Me¬diterranean: the conclufion then feemed to be, thatthe coail of Egypt was fdll the objedt of their defi.tination. On our return to Syjacufe, the circum-flance of our fleering up to the northward, while■the enemy kept a fouthern courfe for Alexandria,makes it obvious, that our chance of falling in withthem was fliil lei's than before. On the 25th ofJuly we left Syracufe, ilill without any pofitive in¬formation refpedling the enemy; but it occurred tothe Admiral that fbme authentic intelligence mightbe obtained in the Morea. We fleered for thatcoafl, and made the Gulph of Coron on the 2®th,Upon the information obtained by Captain Trow¬bridge at Coron, the Admiral determined again tovifit Alexandria, and carried all fail, fleering for.that place, which he had the pleafure to defcry oathe firfl of Augufl, at noon: but not as before, itnow appearing full of vefiels of various kinds; andwe foon had the fatisfadlion of feeing the French flagflying on-board the fquadron, at fight of the ene¬my ; and the pleafure which the Admiral himfelffelt was perhaps more heightesed than that of anyother jna.n, as he had now a ceptai'Vy by which hecouldef Admiral Lord Nelfoi:. i rcould regulate his future operations. It had been hispraflice during the whole of his cruize, to have hisCaplins on board the Vanguard, where he wouldfully develope to them his whole ideas of the dif¬ferent and beft modes of attack, whatever theirpofition or fituation might be by day or night: Itcannot here be thought irrelevant to give fome ideaof what were the plans Admiral Nelfbn had formed,and which he explained to his Captains with fuchperfpicuity, as to render his ideas completely theirown. To the naval fervice at leaft they rnuft no!-only prove intereffing but ufeful; Had he fallen inwith the French fleet at fea, that he might make thebeft impreffion on any part of it that fliould ap¬pear the moft vulnerable, or the molt eligible forattad^ he divided his forces into three fub-fquad-rons, viz.VanguardS MinotaurLeaaderAudaciousDefenceZealousTwo of thefe fub-fquadrons were to attack the (hipsi of war, while the third was to purfue the tranfports,' and to fink and deftroy as many as it could.tit is almoft unneceflary to explain his projectedmode of attack at anchor, as that was minutely andprecifely executed in the aftion which we now cometo deferibe. Thefe plans, however, were formed1 two months before an opportunity prefented itfelf of: executing any of them, and the advantage now was,! that they were familiar to the underftanding of e-very Captain of the fleet. The enemy’s fleet was.firif difeovered by the Zealous, Captain Hood, whoimmediately communicated, by flgnal, the rfumberof fhips, flxtecn, lying at anchor in line of battle,inOrion CullodeaGoliath ThefeusMajeflic AlexanderBellerophon Swiftl’ure1 i. The Life and-gallant Servicesin a bay upon the larboard bow, which we after¬wards found to be Aboukir Bay.. The Admiralhauled his wind that inftant, made the fignal toprepare for battle, as it was his intention to attackthe enemy’s van and centre, as they lay at anchor,and according to the plin before developed. As allthe officers of our fquadron were totally unacquaint¬ed with Aboukir Bay, each drip kept founding asihe flood in. The enemy appeared to be mooredin a flrong and compact line of battle, clofe in withthe fhore, their line deferibing an obtufe angle in itsform, fl inked by numerous gun-boats, four frigates,and a battery of guns and mortars on an ifland intheir vap.The pofition of the enemy prefented the m (1formidable obftacles; but the Admiral viewed thdewith the eye of a fearoan determined on attack; andit inflantly (truck his eager and penetraung mind,that where there was room for an enemy’s (hip tofw'mg, there was room for another of ours to an¬chor. The Goliath and Zealous had the honour tolead infide, and to receive the fir(t fire from the vanfhips of the enemy, as weH as from the batteries andgun boats with which their van was drengthened.Thefe two (hip?, vvirh rhe Orion, Audacious, andThefeus, took their ftattoQs in fide the enemy’s line,and were immediate!v in clofe action. The Van¬guard anchored the firft on the outer-fide of the ene¬my, and was opened within half piftol-ffiot to LeBpartiate, the third in the enemy's line. In (land¬ing in, our leading (hips were unavoidably obligedto receive into their bows the whole fire of thebroad fides of the French line, until they could taketheir refpedlive (lations ; and it is but juft ice to ob-ferve, that the enemy received us with great firm-nefs and deliberation, no colours having been ho'dl-ed on either fide, nor a gun fired, till our van (hipsv/ere within half gun (hot. At this time the necef-' >cj Admiral Lord Nelfon. 13fury number of our men were employed aloft ia fur¬ling fails, and on deck in hauling the braces, &c.preparatory to our calling anchor. As foon as thistook place, a moll: animated fire opened from theVangnurd, which fhip covered the approach of tholein the rear, which were following in a clofe line.The. Minotaur, Defence, Bellerophon, Majefiic,Swiftfure, aud Alexander, -came up in lucceffion,and palling within hail of the Vanguard, took theirrefpefiive ftations oppofed to the enemy’s line. ’Allour '(hips anchored by the Hern, by which meansthe Britifh line became inverted from van to rear.Captain Thornton, of the Leander.of fifty guns, moftjudicioufiy dropped his anchor athwart haufe of Lefranklin, raking her with great firccefs, the fhotfrom the Leander’s broad-fide which p.ifled that Ihipall ftriking L’Orient, the flag-lhip of the Frenchcommander in chief. Theaftion commenced at lun-fet, which was at hirry-one minutes pad fix P. M.with an ardour,and vigour which it is impofible tod.fcribe. At about (even o’clock total darknets hadcome on ; but the whole bemifphere was, at itirer-vals, illuminated bv the fire of the holtile fleets. Atten minutes afer nine,‘a fire was obferved on boardL’Orient, the French Admiral’s fhip, which circum-ffance Captain Berry immediately communicated tothe Admiral, who, though (ufF.ring feverely froma wound, was concerned for the danger of fo manylives, and ordered Captain Berry to make every prac¬ticable exertion. The cannonading was partially keotup to leeward of the centre till about ten o’clock,when L’Orient blew ud with a moft tremendous ex-plofion. An awful paufe and death-like filenee forabout three minutes enf'ued, when the wr.ck of theI malls yards, &c- &c. which had been carried to avaft height, fell down imo the water, and on boardthe furrounding fhips After this awful1 ficene, thefiring recommenced with the fhips to leeward of thecentref 4 'The Life and gallant Servicescentre till twenty minutes paft ten, when there wasa total ceflation of firing for about ten minutes; af¬ter which, it was revived till about three in themorning, when it again ceafed. The fevere woundwhich Sir Horatio Nellbn received in this battle wasfuppofed to have proceeded from langridge flior, or' a piece of iron : the fkin of his forehead being cutwith it at right angles, hung down over his fact.Captain Berry, who happened to ftand near, caughtthe Admiral in his arms. On being carried intothe cock-pit, where feveral of his gallant crew wereftretched with their fluttered limbs, and mangledwounds, the i’urgeon immediately came to attend onthe Admiral. No, replied the hero, 1 wilt tale myturn with my brave followers !—The agony of hiswound increafing, he became convinced that the i-dea he had long indulged of dying in battle was nowabout to be accomplHhed. He immediately there¬fore lent for his Chaplain, the Rev. Mr Comyns, andbegged of him to remember him to Lady Nellbn;and having appointed his friend the brave Hardy,Commander of the Murine biig, to the rank of PortCaprain in the Vanguard, he then with the utmofbcompofure refigned himlelf to death.The wound, however, w^s not mortal: this joy¬ful intelligence quickly circulated through the (hip.As foon as the painful operation of drdling was o-ver, Admiral Nelfon immediately fat down, and thatvery night wrote the celebrated official letter thatappeared in the Gazette. He came on deck juft timeenough to behold the conflagration of L’Orient.The Admiral knowing that the wounded of hisown (hips had been well taken care of, bent his firftattention to thofe of the enemy. He eftabiifhed atruce with the commandant of Aboukir, and throughhim made a communication to the commandant ofAlexandria, that it was his intention to allow all thewounded Freuchmen tp be taken afhore to properhof-af Admiral Lard Nelfon. T 5hofpitals, with their own furgeous to attend them.The humane activity and generous confideration ofCaptain Trowbridge were again exerted at this timetor the general good. On the fecond-the Arabs andMamalukes, who, during the battle, had lined the; fiiores of the bay, faw with tranfport that the vic¬tory was decilively ours, and on that and the twofollowing nights, the whole coaft and country wereilluminated as far as we could fee, in celebration ofour victory.”In this ever memorable battle the Englilh fleetconfided of 14 fail of Line of Battle Ships, and onefrigate; that of France, of (3 fail and 4 frigates.As fome reward for the valour and difcretion dif.played by the admiral on this occafion, his own So¬vereign bellowed upon him the honours of the peer-; age, by the title of Baron Nelfon, of Thorpe, in theji county of Norfolk, and of the Nile; and his Sicili-1; an majefty created him Duke of Bronte, in Naples.In the expedition placed under the orders of Sir,I Hyde Parker, deftined to break a league betweenI ihe northern powers, known by the name of the, Armed Neutrality, Lord Nelfon a£led a veryconfpi-i cuous part. Early in the morning of the nth of! May, 1801, the admiral made the fignal for feeingi land; and on the 19th about noon, his (hip made1| the Scaw, which was the firft general rendezvousi) of the fleet.j y On the 28th orders were given to prepare for bat-II tie; and Lord Nclfon was appointed to lead the at-|1 tack. The afternoon of the 29th was principallyl .employed in preparing the (hips for aftion. It hadi been a received opinion, that the pofleflion of Cro-nenburg caflle gave to the Danes an uncontrouledI command of the paffage of the Sound On the: morning of the 30th, the figna) was made to weigh1 and form the order of battle Lord Nelfon was or¬dered to lead the van, while Sir Hyde Parker a<ft-ed16 Tht Life and gallant Servicesed with his divifion in the rear, as a corps de referve.No one circumftance daring the operations of thisday contributed fo effiqacionfly to their fuccefs as thefilence of the Swedifh batteries; and at half paft teaevery (hip had pafled the Sound.Lord Nelfon, with twelve (hips of the line, all thefrigates, bombs, fire-(hips, &c. on the fame eveningof the i ft of April, anchored off Draco Point, tomake his difpofition for the attack, and wait for thewind to the fonthward.In the morning of April 2, Lord Nelfon madethe fignal for the fquadron to weigh and to engagethe Danifh line', confiding of fix fail of the line, ele¬ven floating batteries, from twenty-fix twenty-fourpounders to eighteen eighreen-pounders, and onebomb-(hip, befides fchooner gun-veflels. Thefe werefupported by the Crown Iflands, mounting eighty-eight cannon, and four fail of the line moored in theharbour’s mouth, and fome batteries on the iflandof A mac. The bomb-(hip and fchooner gun-vefielsmade their efcape. The other feventeen fail, beingthe whole of the Danilh line to the fouthward of theCrown Iflands, after a battle of four hours, werefunk, burnt, or taken.The lofe in fuch a battle, was naturally very hea¬vy. The total amount of the killed and woundedwas flated 31943. Among the killed, befides Cap¬tain Riou, was Captain Mo’s of the Monarch, andamong the wounded Sir Thomas B. Thomfon, ofthe Bellona, who lofl his legThe carnage on board the Danifh (hips was excefi.ftve. There not bring on board their block-fhipsa fingle furgeoo, when our people boarded them,they found hundreds bleeding to death. As (bon asthe fire of the Danifll line (hekened, and Lord Nel¬fon perceived th.it the (hips and batteries of the en¬emy were in his power, he went to his cabin, andiwrote a letter to the Prince Royal. He received per-Dailfionof Admiral Lord Ne!fin. , 17miffion to land, and was received by the brave andgenerous Danes with the loudeft acclamations, andtreated by the accomplifliedPrince of Dwnmark witheverj mark of refpeft. The immediate confequence! of their conference was an armiiiice, which foon led; to an amicable convention. Lord Nellbn, fpeakingto Col. Lindholm of this engagement, faid, “ I have| been in 105 engagaments (laid he) in the courfe of' my life, but that of to-day was the moft terrible of1 all.” Admiral Sir Hyde Parker, in his difpatchesto the Admiral^ faid, “ Were it poflible for me to“ to add any thing to the well earned renown ofLord Nelfon, it would be bv aflerting that his“ exertions, great as they have hitherto been, never“ were carried to a higher pitch of zeal for his“'Country’s fervice.”An invafion having been threatened on the part ofFrance, and a confiderable number of fmall veflelscollefted along the coafls of the republic, particular¬ly in the harbour of Boulogne, preparatory to fuchan attack, Lord Ndfon had once more an opportu-ii nity of exerting his valour and talents.On this undertaking he v/as invefted with very: extenfive and unufual powers. During this enter-Jprifc he made repeated attacks; his fucctfles, thoughirnall in themielves, were great and valuable in theiraggregate amount; the enemy received an impor¬tant check; and the individual valour of Britons was,perhaps, never more ftrikingly difplajed.The life of Lord Nelfon forcibly illuftrates the re¬mark, which he has often been heard to make, ThatPerseverance in any prof effort will meji prtbably meetits reward, without the influence of arty contingait infer-eAIn whatever light we confider the character ofthis iilultrious mariner, its brilliancy dazzles the eyewith an cndlefs variety. It (hows us what diligencemay accoipplilh, and what indolence has often loll;it13 The Life and gallant Servicesit gives new energy to the difpondi'ng mind, andfupplies the perlevering with frefli hope.Lord NeWon’s charafter, and military exploits,may be put on a parallel with thofe of Agrippa, ina few words : eminent merit, attended with rtmarka-tie madefy. Like this Roman, he has been viftcri-®us in both hemifpheres, and with the fleets of Franceand Spain. Like Agrippa alfo, Lord NeHon’s glo¬ry has not been confined to one element. He hastriumphed both by fea and land.The noble admiral’s humanity ic^private life hasbeen long felt by the poor of Burnham Thorpe, andits vicinity. His firm and fteady attachment to hisfriends has been no lefs confpictious than his bene-▼plenc'e and bounty to the poor, fo far as he poflels-ed the means of rendering lervice. Lord Nelfbn’scharafter in the humble and private walks of life,like that ot'his proftffional one, will exite equal ad¬miration : as Delany faid of Swift, “ They will bath“ bear to be re-confulered, and re-examined with the ut-“ tr.ojl attentkn ; and will always difccver new beau-‘‘ ties and exellencies, upon every examination. They“ will bear to be can/idered as the Sun ; tn which the“ brightnefs will hide the blemijhes."When quite a child, and on a vifit with his grand¬mother at Hilborough, Lord Nelion was invhed byanother boy to go bird’s-nefiing; as he did not re¬turn at the ufual dinner hour, the old lady becamealarmed, and difpatched meffengers in different waysto fearch after him. The young ramblers at lengthwere difcovered under a hedge counting over thefpoils of the day, and the young Horatio was broughthome. His relation began to fcold him for beingablem without her leave, and concluded with faying,“ 1 wonder fear did not drive you home” Horatioinnocently replied, frudam, l never jaw fear!’’Lord Nelion was born September 29th, 175^>married March 11, 17S7, Frances Herbert, daugh¬tertf Admiral Lord Nei/fcn. 19ter and eoheir of VVm. Woodward, Efq. Seniorj Judge of the liland of Nevis, and relift of Jofiahi Nifbet, M. D. of Nevis aforefaid. His lordihip hadI no iilue.We now proceed to the memorable battle whichI has put the (eal to the Life and Glory of this greatLattiof, Hero, and Man !The following official letter was fent to the Lordi Mayor, and alio to Loyd’s Coffiee-houfe :“ Admira'ty-QJfice) November 6, 1805.One o’Clock, A. M.! “ Lieutenant Lapenotiers, of the Pickle Schoon-1 er, arrived laft night, with Difpatches from Vice-“ Admiral Collingwood, announcing,A GLORIOUS VICTORY,GAINED BY HIS MAJESTY’S FLEET,OFF CADIZ,UNDER THE COMMAND OF LORD* VISCOUNT NELSON.&c. &c.| At one o’clock of the fame day, the Park andI Tower guns were fired in celebration of this fplen-rii did viftory ; and early in the evening the Gazette. 1 Extraordinary was publifhed, containing the follow-I ing particulars:Admiralty-Office^ November 6th, 1805.DIS P A T C H E S, of which the following are|| copies, were received at the Admiralty this day, atone o’clock A. M. from Vice-admiral Collingwood,Commander in Chief of his Majeffy’s {hips and vef-■.! fels off Cadiz.Euryalus off Cape Trafalgar)OBtbtr lid. 1805.SIR, The ever to be lamented death of Vice-ad¬miral Lord Vifcount Nellbo, who, in the late con-flift with the enemy, fell in the hour of viftory,leaves to me the duty of informing my Lords Com-miffioners20 ^Fhe Life and gallani Servicesfioners of the Admiralty, that on the ipth inftant,it vvis cotnmunkated to the Commander in Chief,from the ihips watching the motions of the enemyin Cadiz, that the combined Fleet hud put to fca ;as they failed with light winds wcfterly, his Lord-fhip concluded theif dcflination was the Mediterra¬nean, and immediately made all liiil for the Streight’sentrance, with the Britilh Squadron, confifting oftwenty-feven (hips, three of them lixty-fours, wherehis Lordlhip was informed by Captain Blackwood,(whole vigilence in watching and giving notice ofthe enemy's movements, has been highly meritori- ious). that they had not yet palled the Streights.On Monday the a id inllant, at day-light, whenCape Trafalgar bore E. by S. about (even Leagues,the enemy was difeovered fix or (even miles to theEalfward, the wind about Weft, and very light: theCommander in Chief immediately made the fignalfor the fleet to bear up in two columns, as they areformed in order of (ailing; a nyxle of attack hisLordfhip had previoufly directed, to avoid the in¬convenience and delay in forming a line of battle inthe ufua| manner. The enemy’s line confifted ofthirty-three (hips (of which eighteen were Frenchand fifteen Spanifh) commanded in chief by Admi¬ral Villeneuve; the Spaniards under the diretftion ofGranina, wore with their heads to the Northward,and formed their line of battle with great clofenefsand corretffnefs; but as the mode of attaft was un-ufual, fo the ftrtufture of their line was new; itformed a crefcent convcxing to leeward—fo that, inleading down to their centre, I had both their Vanand Rear abaft the beam; before the fire opened,every alternate (hip was about a cable’s length to jwindward of her fecond a head and a-ftern, form¬ing a kind of double line, and appeared, when ontheir beam, to leave a. very little interval betweenthem ; and this without crowding their (hips. Ad¬miral■——■A .cf Admiral Lord Nelfott, 21miral Villeaeuve was in the Bucentaure in the cen¬tre, and the Prince of Auftiirias bore Gravina’s Flag,i in the rear; but the French and .Spanifla (hips were11 mixed without any apparent regard or order of na-ilj tional fquadron.As the mode of our attack bad been previonQy: I determined on, and communicated to the Flag-offi-u eers, and captains, few fignals were neceffary, andi mone were made, except to direct: dole order as thei lines bore down.The Commander in Chief in the Victory led thei weather column, and the Royal Sorereigu, whichbore my Flag, the lee.The adtion began at twelve o’clock, by the lead-! ling (hips of the columns breaking thro’ the enemy’si iline, the Commander in Chief about the tenth (hipfrom the Van, the fecond in command about thei twelfth from the Rear, leaving the V^n of the ene¬my unoccupied; the fucceeding (hips breaking thro*:n ill parts, aftera of their leaders, and engaging theenemy at the muzzles of their guns; the conflidf wasifevere; the enemy’s (hips were fought with a gallan¬try highly honour ible to their officers; but the at¬tack on them wa irreliftable, and it plealed the Al¬mighty Difpofer of all events, to grant his Majefty’sninns, a complete and glorious viftory; about three?. M. many of the enemy's (hips having ftruck theircolours, their line gave way; Admiral Gravina, withen (hips, joining their frigates to leeward, flood to¬wards Cadiz. The five headmoft (hips, in their VanHacked, and (landing to the fouthward, to windwardif the Britifh Line, were engaged, and the fternmoft)f them taken ; the others went off, leaving to HisVlajelty’s Squadron nineteen (hips of the line, (ofIvKich i wo are firlt rates, the Santiffima Trinidada,nd the Santa Anna; vith three flag-officers, viz.Admiral Villeneuv-, the Commander in Chief, Dongnatio Maria D Aiiva, Vice-admiral, and the Spa-nifh '22 'The Lift and gallant Servicesni(h Rear-Admiral Don Baltazar Hidalgo Cifneros.After fuch a tiftory, it may appear unneceflary toenter into encomiums on the particular parts takenby the feveral Commanders; the conclufion faysmore on the fubjedt than I have language to exprcls;the fpirit which annLmated,all was the Came: when allexert themfelves zealonfly in their country’s fervice,all deferve, that their high merits Ihould Hand re¬corded i and never was high merit more confpicuous |than in the battle I have defcribed.The Achille a (French feventy-four) after havingfurrendered, by fome mifmanagement of the French¬men, took fire and blew up; two hundred of hermen were faved by the tenders.A circnmftance occurred during the aftion, which ;fo ftrongly marks the invincible fpirit of Britilh lea-men, when engaging the enemies of their country,that I cannot refill the pleafure I have in making itknown to their Lord (hips; the Temeraire was board¬ed by accident, or defign, by a French (hip on one nfide, and a Spaniard on the other; the conteft was jjvigorous, but, in the end, the combined enfignsjSwere torn from the poop, and the Britilb hoifted ||in their places.Such a battle could not be fought without fufiain-jjing a great loft of men. I ‘have not only to lamenrJIin common with the Britilh Navy, and the BrifdhJNation, in the fall of the Commander in Chief, thelols of a hero, whofe name will be immortal, andhis memory ever dear to his country, but my heartis rent with the moft poignant grief for the death ota friend, to whom by many years intimacy, and aperfeft knowledge of the virtues of his mind, whichiufpired ideas fuperior to the common race of menI was bound by the Itrongeft ties of affeftion; tgrief to which even the glorious occafion in whichhe fell, does not bring the confoiation which perhaps it ought; his Lordlhip received a mulket-balof Admiral Lord Nelfon. 23iia his left breafl, about the middle of the aftion,1 and fent an officer to me immediately with his laft1 farewell; and foon after expired.I have alfo to lament the lofs of thofe excellenti (officers, Captain Duff of the Mars, and Cooke gfIrjthe Bellefophon; I have yet heard of none others.I fear the numbers, that have fallen will be foundJ very great, when the returns come to me, but ithaving blown a gale of wind ever fince the aftion,) I have not yet had it in my power to colleft any re¬ports from the fhips.The Royal Sovereign having loft her mafts, ex-j cept the tottering foremaft, I called the Enryalus to: me, while the <t<ftion continued, which (hip lying1 within hail, made my fignals, a fervice Captain Black-: 'wood performed with great attention; after the ac-1 ition, I (hifted my flag to her, that I might more! leafily communicate my orders to, and colledft theI ffiips, and towed the Royal Sovereign out to fea-ward. The whole Fleet were now in a very peri-1 bus fituation, many difmafted, all (haltered, in thir¬teen fathom water, off the (hoals of Trafalgar; and1 when I made the fignal to prepare to anchor, fewof the (hips had any anchors to let go, their cables; being (hot; but the fame good Providence whichaided us thro’fuch •. day, preferved us in the night,by the wind (hifting a few points, and drifting >heijfljips off the land, except four of the captured difl.nufted (hips, which are now at anchor off Trafalgar,l and I hope will ride fafe until thofe gales are over,ifc I! Having thus detailed the proceedings of the FleetKjr on this occafion, I beg to congratulate their Lord-}ihips on a victory which, I hope, will add a ray toche glory of his Majefty’s crown, and be attendedifvith public benefit to our country.I am, &c.(Signed) C. ColLingwood,I William Madden, Efq.The24 ¥he Life and gallant Services,¥ht Order in which the Ships of the Britijh Squadsattacked the Combined Fleets, on the 2 ijl of October,1805.VAW.ViftoryTcmeraire-NeptuneConcjuerorLeviathanAjaxOrionAgamemnon ,MinotaurSpartiateBritanniaAfricaEftr; alii*Sirius"Phoebe ,NaiadPickle, SchoonerEatrepre«ante, Cutter.(Signed)IREAR.Royal SoverergEMarsBelleifleTonnantBellerophoQCollolTosAchillePolyphemusRevengeSwiftfureDefenceThundererDefiancePrinceDreadnoughtC. COLLINGWOOD. IIWe truft that for ages to come, Nelfon’s Dataand memory will be a talifman of infpiration to tb jheart of every Britifh Seaman. Above all, we trufthat our young Naval Officers will form^their wai;like charaffer on the modd of an undegenerate Brlton—this illuftrious Model, whole whole Soul w;|an union of Wifdom and Intrepidity !FINIS.GLASGOW,MRINTED 8T J. AND M. ROBERTSON, SALTMARKE'l8 0<5.