PASSAGESC F THEIFE AND DEATH11! OF MASTERFkLEXANDER PEDEN.Etc Minifter of the Gorpel at New-Gienluce in Galloway.tgular for Piety, Zeal and Faithfnlnefs, butfpecially, \vho exceeded all to be heard of iniibur late ages in that Gift, of forefeeing E-;;/ents, and foretelling what was to befal the.Ghurch and Nation of Scotland and Inland,.particular Families and Perfons, and of hisfbwn Life and Death. As a few iuftances a-mong many thro’ his Life, take thefe thatbllow.fges li. to And alfodll that Generation -were gather-Jj / unto their Fathers ; and there arofe another Genera-\ion after them, which knew not the Lord, nor yet thefuterks.which he had done for Ilrael. Plal, xii. i. Piaj.xxvin. 3, 4.scot^b )G L A S G 0 ^F'.^OFNIB^0.cated^♦Printed in the Year, M. D CG LX. J >n h<r• urfeit of&ric£•K',IIT:llbwTHELIFE and deathOF MASTER! ALEXANDER PEDEN.iLate Minifrer of the Gofpel at New-*Glenluee m Galloway.• ’ "Who died the 28th Day of January, 168$, be*ing about 60 Years of Age.I. TJE was horn in the p'arilh of Sorn, in the fheri/F-XjL dom of Air : after that he pa!t his courfes at the1 college,he was imployed for fometime tobefchoo!-rnaf-1 fer, precentor and feffien clerk, to Mr/John Guthrieminiiter of the golpel at Tarbolton. When he was a-Bout t'o enter to the miniltry, a young woman fell to bewith child in adultery, to a (ervaut in that houle where! heltayed; when fne found herfclf with child, (he toldthe father thereof; he laid, 1 11 run for it, and go to Ire¬land, father it upon Mr. Pcden, he has more to help1thee and bring it up (he having a piece ot heritage) thanI have. The fame day that he was to get an aft of li-Ceni?, (he came in betore the presbytry, and laid, I hearyour are to licenfe Mr. Peden to be a minuter; do itnot, for I am with child to him. He being without atthe time, was called in by the moderator; arid beingquettioned about it,he Lid,! am furprifed, I cannot (peak jbut let none entertain an ill thought of me, fot I am ut- ^terly free of it, and God will vindicate me in his own ''time and way. He went home and walked at a water -*■'Ude upwards of 24 hours, & would neither eat nor dynknOr- ^at la(t he came in and iaid, Give me meat and drink, J»rI have got what I was leeking, and-I will be vindicated,-; and that poor unhappy lafs will pay dear for it in herlife, and will make a dilmal end, and for this forfeit ofA 2 griefv 4 )nrief that fhc bath given me, there (hall never orher (ex come into my bofom : and accordingly he n.married. There are various reports of the way tha..was vindicated. Some fay, that in the time fhe was)child-birth, Mr. Guthrie charged her to give accoi^v n was the father of that child, and dilcharged wornto be ndpful .to her, until (he did it: Joifie fay thatiuc fu jj; ui u) ner, unui me uiu u .confefFed, others that fhe remained oblimnte; 'onre otptople(when I made enquiry about itinthatcountryluaffirmed, that after thepresbytry had been at all piabout it, & cotfld get n© fatisfa&on, they appointed '■Guthrie to give a full relation of the whole beforecongregation, which he did, and the fame day the fatofthal child was prefent: and when he heard Mr. Gutrie begin to read, (food up, and defired him to haft, aifaid,I am the father of that child, and I delired her rot.ther it upon Mr. Peden, which has been a great troutiiofccn.cience to me, and I could get no retf till I car,home to declare it. However, it is certain that after I.was married, and every thing went crofs to them, a-■wandred from place to place, and were reduced to grpoverty, at lail fhe came to that fame fpot of grouwhere lie flayed upwards of 24 hours, and made awwith herfelf.2. After this he was three years fettled minifterat neClenluce in Galloway and when he was obliged by titviolence and tyranny of that time to leave that pinlrhe lectured upon the zethchnp. of the Adis from the 1verie to the end, and preached upon the 31ft verfe in t|'forestoon, ‘Therefore watch and remember, that by th‘f’pace ot three years, 1 ceafed not to warn every on‘ .light and day with fears. Afferting that he had dedared the whole counfei of God, & had keepad nothin]back, and protelfed that he was free of the blood of alfouls. And in tha afternoon he preached on the 3:ver e, And now, brethren, I commend you to God, antj‘ to the word ot Ids grace, which is able,to build you up,‘and to give you an inheritance among all them thaiare fandtitied. Which was a weeping day in that kirk,the greater part could not contain themfelyes : he manjitimes fcqueded them to be blent, but they forrowed mol',ot all that he told them that they (hould never feehiS face••in that pulpit again.He continued until night, & when1 si itj.it p ui >-» 11 .ti ti. i it v-w n ' •   o - - »he clofeu the pulpit door, he knocked hard upon it threelimes with, his bible, faying three times over, I arrelt theein my M .fter’s name, that never none enter thee, butinch as comes i» at the door as I did. Accordingly, ne-11lit . c ? ) ...t! [her curate nor indulged entred thatpulpit arJfiiar^!t revolution, that a Presbyterian minuter opened it,d this account from old perfons in that parilh, whoantnelles to it, worthy of all credit,r after this hejoined with that honelt zealous hand-l the year 1666, that was broken at Pentland hills,jn ame the length of Clyde with them, where he hadmancholy view of their end, and parted with them, s James Cubifon of Paluehbeaties, my informer,Nom he told this, he faidto him. Sir, yon did well“parted with them, feeing you were perluaded they1M fall and flee before the enemy. Glory, glory ts>r that ne fent me not to hell immediately, for Ij!jd have flayed with them, tho’ I- fliould have beenH!1 in piecesThat night the Lord’s people fell & tied before the|y at Pentland hills, he was in a friend’s houfe in»ck, lixty miles from Edinburgh; his landlord fee-Tifiim mightily.troubled, enquired how it was withhe laid, To morrow Iwilll’peak with you; & de-(ome candle; that night he went to bed ; the ne<ting calling early to his land-lord, faid, I t:ave fadto tell you, cur friends that were together in arms[firing lor Chrilt’s interelf, ate now broken, killed,a and fled every man. The good-man fa;d, Lordd that be true. He faid, Why do you (peak lo?is a great part of our friends prilbners in Edin-h. About 48 hours thereafter, they were (oily con-d in the truth of it.After this, in June 167.;, he was taken by majorkburn in the houfe of Hugh Fsrgufon ol Knockcowfirrick, who confinined him to tarry ail night. Mr,in told him, that it would be a dear night’s quarterspent both. Accordingly they were both camtd-ifiners to Edinburgh, hugh f ergulon was fin’d intland merks for relet, harbour and converle witnThe council ordered 50/. Uerling to be paid to thear out ot the lines, and ordaineu him to dtvide 25/,iug among the party that apprehended them ; iome-: alter examination he w s lent prilontr to the Balsvre he r mained there and at Edinburgh until Ds-btr 1678, that he was banilhet!.• VV i.ile prifoner in the iials one labbath morning,Ing about the publkk. worfliip cf-God, a young Listhe age oi 13,or 14 years, came to the chaniotrot rriccking with loud laughter -, he laid, Poor tmngm m cks at,: J-ugiis at the wotlhip.oi God, buttrtr-1c{ 6 )GoJ fTtjfT write fucb a fudden furprizinsr jujrKint on thee, that fkaH (by thy Laughing, and t!idi!fhUt notefcape it. Very fhortly after, (he was walkii lupon the rock, ind there came a blalt of wind Sc fwee:icd lier ofi in o the fen, where (he was folt.While p; ifbner there, one day walking upon the roc!home foitiiers piilLng by him, one of them cried, ^cievH take inm. He (aid, Fy, fy, poor man, thou knoe(f «iot what thou art faying, but thou wilt repent tbAt which words the foldier (food aftonifhed, andto the guard diitraiffed, crying aloud for Mr. Peden,ing. The devil would immediately take him awaycame to him again, & found him in his right mwidder deep con visions of greit guilt; the guard beng;change, they defircd him to goto his arms, he refutean;! faid, He would lift no arms againft Jefus Chrilt hcaufe, a»d perfeeute his people, I have done that t(long. The governour shreatned him with deathmorrow about to of the dock, be confidently faid, thftimes, Tho lie fhould tear all his body in pieces,.!Ihodd never lift arms that way. About three days aier the govcrr.our put him out ofthe garrifon, fettilchim ailiore, lie having a wife and children, took a houin eaffc Loth.ian, where he became » fingullr Chriffij|Mr. Peden to'J thefe altonifiling pail'ages to the for.'feid John- Cuhifen and Qthers who informed me.7- When brought from the Bafs to Edinburgh, arfen teuce of bsnifliment palt upon him, in Dec cm b-JfdySl, and 60 mere fellow prifoners for the fame causo. go to America, never to be feen in Scotland agaiiwilder the pain of death ; after this fcntence was pa'—ac feveral times laid, that the (hip was not yet bujthat fbould take him and tiufe prifoners to Virginor any other of the Engfiih plantations in A meric:One James K..y. a folid grave Cliriftian, being one<them that lived in or about the water of Leith, told iribis, that Mr. Peden, faid to him, James, when yoiwife comes in let me lee your wife; which he did, gciing to Mr. Petkn’$ room, after fome d.fcourfe, he caled for a drink, and when he fought a blefiing, he faitGood Lord, let not James Kay’s wife mifs her husbapontil thou return him to her in peace and fafety, wr!iic;wears lure will be fooner than either he or (he is looliing for, accordingly that fame day month that he pat;ed with her at Lieth, he came home to her at the wait©f.Lieth.S* When they were on Ihip board in the road of Lie#the)tfierc was a report that the enemies were to (end downthumbikins to keep them from rebelling : at the reportof this they were difcooraged ; he came above the deck,and faid, Why are ye fo difeouraged ? You need cotfear, there will neither thumbikins nor bootikins tomehere, lift up your hearts & heads for the day of yourredemption draweth near ; if we were once at Londonwe will be all fet at liberty. And when Jailing in thevoyage, praying publickly, he (aid, Lord iuch is theenemies hatred at thee, and malice at us, tor thy lake,that they will not let us hay in thy land of Scotland tolerve thee, tho fome of us have nothing but the canopyof thy heavens above ua, and thy earth to trade upon ;but. Lord, we blefs thy name, that will cut (hort ourvoyage & frultrate thy enemies of theii wicked delign-,and will not get us where they intend, and lome ofus fliall go richer home, than we came (torn home.James Pride, who lived at Fife, an honed man beingone of them, he faid, many times he could alien tietruth of this; for he came fafely home, betide otherthings, he bought two cows, and before that he neverhad one. I had thefe accounts both from the forefiidJames Kay, and Robert Punton a known public man,worthy of all credit, who was alfo under the lame fen-tence, who lived in the parilh of Dalmeny, near theQueens Ferry.9. When they arrived at London, the fkipper whoreceived them at Leith was to carry them no further ;the Jkipper who was to receive them there, and to canythem to Virginia, came to fee them, they being repre-feoted to him as thieves, robbers, and evil-doers, butwhen he found they were all grave Chriltian men, ba-nilhed for presbyterian principles, he faid, he would failthe fea with none fitch. In this co-nfulion, that the onefkipper would not receive them, and the other wouldkeep them-no longer, and being expenlive 10 maintainthem, they were all fet at liberty. Others reported thatboth fkippers got compliments by friends at London,however it is certain they werofafely fet free, withoutany impofition of bonds or oaths; & friends at London;and in their way homeward thro England (hewed n 12 hkindnefs unto them.10. That difnial day, the 22d of June, in the yeari679, at Bothwel bridge, that the Lord’s people fell Scfled before the enemy, he was forty miles diltant, nearthe border, kept him retired until the middle of the day,that fome friend laid t© him. Sir, the people are waitingforJfor lermon ; he faid. Let the people so to their prayers,for me i neither can nor will preach any this day ; forour triends arc fallen and fled before the enemyat Hamikon, and they are hagginfj and hafhing themdown, and their blood ;s running Iikc water.11. Alter this, he was preaching in Galloway, in theforenoon he prayed earnehly for the pnioners taken at& about Bot.iwel ; but in the aft moon when he beganto pray for them h* halted & laid, Our friends at Edin¬burgh, the prileners, havedone iomewhu to fave theirlives tliat lhall not do with them, butthe fea billows flialibe many of thcr windi.ig-iheets, & the few-of them thatefeupe lhall not be ufefui to Go'd in their generation.Which was iudly- veritied thereafter. T st which thegreatell part of the e prifoners did, was the taking ofthat bond, commonly call.d the black oond after Both-wel, wherein they acknowledged their appearance in¬arms for the defence of ti e gofpel and their own livesto be rebellion, and engaged themfelves never to makeany mote eppontion ; upon the doing ot which thefePerfidious enemies promii d them lire and liberty ; th s-with the curled -.n i iubtile arguments &c advices of tni-nitters, who went into the new yard, where they weiepriloncrs, particularly Mr. Hugh Kennedy, Mr. Wil¬liam Ceighton. .ur. Edward Jamielon, and Mr. GeorgeJohnllon :■ thele took their turn in the yard, where tneprilbners were, together with a let.er that was lent fromthat Erauian meeting of niinificrs, met at Edinburghin Augult 167.01 for the accepting of a third indulgencewith a cautionary bond. Notwit' tianding oi the-ene¬mies promile, and the unhappy advices ot the-le miniltersnot indiilged, alter they were enlnared in this foul com¬pliance, buniflieu 2^) whereof 203 perilhed in titc Ork¬ney lea. This tool itep, as lome of them told me, bothin their life, and when dying, lay heavy upon the n alltheir days ; and that thefe unhappy arguments and ad¬vices ot minilters prevailed more win. them, ti.an theenemies promife ol life and liberty.in Augult, 1679, fifteen ofBothwel prifoners got in¬dictments of death. Mr. Edward Jamiclon, a worthypresbyterian minilter, as M . Woonrow calls him, wastent Irom tnat Eraltian meeting of miaiiters into- teetoibooth to Uide tifteen, who urged the lawtuinels oftaking the bond to lave their lives; and the refuta* otit would be a reflection to religion and the cade 1 :eyhad appeared for, and a throwing away their lives, torwinch tncir friends would ncA be able to vindicate them.He prevailed with thirteen of them ; this fowr’d in theftomachs of fome of theie thirteen, and lay heavy uponthem, both in thei: life and death. Theie prifoners ta¬ken at and about the time of Bothwel, were reckonedaboutijoo.The faithful Mr. John Blackader did write to thefeprifoners diHwadinp them from that foul compliance,and lome worthy perfbns of thefe prilbners whom hewrote to, laid to me with tears, that they flighted hia|j advice and followed the unhappy advices of theie mi-nilters, who were making peace with the enemies of1 God, & followed their foul fteps, fos which they would| go mourning to their graves^ I heard the fame Mr.i Blackader preacn his laft public lermon, before hisI falling into the enemies hands, in the night-time, in! the fields, in the parifh of Livingftone, upon the fide ©fthe muir, at the new houfe, on the 23 of March, after! Borhwel,. wheie he ledtured upon Micah ivr from vcrfe9. where heafferted, That the nearer the delivery, ourpains and (bowers would come thicker and (orer uponi us and that we had been in the fields, but e’er we were1 delivered, we would go down to Babylon, that eitherI Popery Wouldoverlpread this land, or be atthebreakingm upon us, like aninundation of water: & preached u-: pon that text, That no man fbould be moved.with thefe1 afilitftions : for ye yonrfelves know' that ye are appoint-1 ed thereuntovvhere he ir,lilted upon what moving &I Jhaking difpenfations the Lord had oxercifed his people\ witii^in foimer ages, elpccially that man of God that1 went*to Jeraboam s Bethel, and delivered his commit-lion faithfully, and yet turned out of the way by an oldji| lying prophet, how moving and Humbling the mannerI of his death was to all llrael; and eameltly requested us1 to take good heed to what minitier we heard, and whatadvice we followed. When he prayed, he bh tied theSi Lord that he was free of both band and rope, and tnutthe was as clearly willing to hold up the public bleltfiitandard of the golpel as ever; and laid, The Lord re-buke, give repentance and tbrgivenefs to theie mini-liHers that perfuaded thefe priloners to take that bond :^For their perifhing by lea, was more moving & (bock-utig to him, than if lome thoulands of them had beenilain in the field.He was thereafter taken the 6th of April, by majorIjohnlton in Edinburgh, and detained prilormr in thi*;Bafs, where he uied. As the : .erdt of Chrili lay nearthis hear thro’ his life, among his Lit words he mid,»I be Lord will defend his own eaule. 12. At-( ro )12. After the publick murdering ofthefe fwo worth'!Women-martyrs, Ifobe! Aiiibn and Marion Harvie, hi£he Grals-u arket of Edinburgh, January x68i, he wain Galloway, a proleilbr of Ibme note, who had morcarnal wit and policy than to fuller him to behoneltfaithful, after reaibning upon the grounds of their fufferings, afhrmed, that they would never be reckonedamong the number of the martyrs : Mr. Pedea faidl,after muling, a little, Let alone, you’ll never be horncur’d with Inch a death, and for what you have Paid a, |gainlt thefe two worthy lalles, your death will be botlludden and furpriling. Which was very Ihortly there i,after; the man (funding before the lire fmoaking hi :pipe, dropt down dead, and that without (peaking more “13- In the month of June 1682, he was in the houl 1of Janies Brown in Paddock holm above Douglafs, JoinWilfon in Lanerk was with him, who luft'ered martyrbom in the Grals-market of Edinburgh the next year IMay 1683. He Icblured at night upon the vii. chapte *•of Amos, and repeated thefe words in the 9' verfe thre- 1times, And I will rile againlt the houfe of Jeraboam willthe fword. Hulaid his hand-on the laid John, and laid;John, have at the unhappy name of Stewarts, off th« Ithrone (hall they go, if all the world Ihould fet (ide tc j;hold them on. After wards he brake out in a rapture a |bout our martyrs, laying, They were going.offthellagt 1with frelh gales and full fiils, & now they are all glan 1cing in glory ; O if ye faw them, they would flee yoi :out of your wits. He again laid his hand upon the fakJohn, and laid, Encourage yourfelf in the Lord & holefait, John, for you‘ll win up yonder (hortly, aud geon all your braws. That night he went to the fieldsto-morrow about 6 o’clock John went to leek him, an«found him coming to the houfe. He faid, John, let ugo trom this houle, for the devil is about it, and wilitake his prey with him.the tievu is anoui u, uuuJohn laid, we will take break Iteltion when we’ll get- the offc Ifait e’er we go, 'tis a queltion when we’ll getagain. He anlwered, No, no; I will not eat bread irthis place, oar landlord is an unhappy man, the deviwill get him Ihordy, for he will hang himfelt. Winvery (horily came to p .Ishis daughter Jean Brownwas the tirlt that got him in her arms, hangingm th.itable. She was reckoned by ah to be a grave Cnriitiatlals but from that d 01 naver had her health, and uies 1oi a decay at ialf,- alter (he ad been Ibmetime in prtIon for her principles. This pa.fage the lame John W ilIba reported leveral times to many, and lome alive catbear witnels to tiie truth ol it. 1-4. I1.V( II )14. Tn the year 1680, after the murdering of Mr. Ca¬meron & thefe worthies with him at Airdfmofs, he wasiiear Machline in the (liire of Air, one Robert Brown©f Crofs-houfe, wlio lived near the New-mills, & oneHugh Pinaneve, factor to the earl of Lowdon itabledtheir horfes in that houfe where he was, and went toa fair in Machline ; and in the afternoon, when theycame to take away their horfes, they got a drink, & inthe time of it, the faid Hugh a wicked wretch both inprinciple and praflice, broke out in railing againttfuf-ferers,particularlyagainllMr.Cameron; Mr. Pedenbe¬ing in another room overhearing all, was fo grievedthat he came to the chamber door and faid to the laidHugh, Sir, hold your peace, e’er 12 o’clock thou (haltknow what fora man Mr. Cameron was, God (hall pu-nilh that blafphemous mouth and curled tongue of yoursin fuch a manner as (hall be allonifhing to all that fhallfee you, and (hall fet you up as a beacon to all railingRablhakehs. Robert Brown knowing Mr. Peden, haf-ted to his horfe, being perfuaded that Mr.Peden’s wordswould not fall to the ground, and fearing that (bme mil-chief might befal him for being in the laid Hugh’s com¬pany, the rode hard home, Robert went to his ownhoufe, and Hugh to the earl s houfe, and calling off hisboots, he was (truck with fuefa a (icknefs and pain thro*his body, with his mouth fo wide, and his tongue hang¬ing Co far out in a fearful manner, they lent for the faidI Robert, being ufed to take blood, he got lome blood ofShim but all in vam, he died before mid-night. Thej faid Robert, an old man, told me this pallage when in1 piifon together.Ij. In the year 1682 lie was in Kyle, and preached u-pon that text, the plov ers plowed uponmy back, &|drewlong the furrows. W! er he laid, would ye know whofrit yoked this plow ? it uas curled Cain when he drewhis fum-ws fo long & alfo deep, that he let out the heartblood of his b*other Ah'!; and all his curled feed has,& will gang funnier & winter, frolt & frefh weather, tillthe worlu s end ; and at the found of the lalt trumpet,when all ar in a F me. their the *s will burn, and their|wint-.le-:tees wii* fall to the ground, the plow-men willJofr t* eir grips of tne plow, and the gad-men will throwa\ya’ their g. ds ; & then, O the ydling & finicking thatwill be among all this eur jd eeti, dapping their hands& crying «• the hiils an •. mo’ ains *o cover them fromi the faceof the Lamh, & of Km hat ns upon the thr«nc,1 for their hatreu of him, and malice at his people./AfterAfter fermon,when marrying a pair of folks, when the/nan had the woman by the hand, he faid. Indeed mailyou have a bonny bride by the hand, I fee a covetous,devil in her, (he is both a thief and a whore, let her go,yon will be alhamed ofher. The man keeping fa(t herhand, he laid, you will not take my advice, but it willtend to thy di'grace. After marriage, when prayinghe laid, Good Lord, many a plow hath been yoked onthe back of thychurch in Scotland, pagans yoked theirs,Antichriit yoked his, and Prelacy hers, and now theplagued Eraltian indulged, they have yoked theirs, Scill it becomes them ; good Lord, cut their theets, thattheir fwingle-trees may fall to the ground. EnligaJohn Kirkland was witnefs to this fertnon Sc marriage;he was my very dear acquaintance, who told me feveraltimes of this, and more of that fermon.16. About the fanae time he was marrying two pair offolks, he laid to the one, Stand by 1 will not marry youthis day : The bridegroom was anxious to know thereafon, after enquiring privately, he faid, Youwill thank me for this afterwards, and think yourfelfwell quat of her, for (lie is with child to another wife’s ;husband ; which was matter of fat3, as time afterwards,di (covered.T/. Shortly after that fid Uroke at Bothwel, he wentto Ireland, but did not Hay long at that time, in his tra¬vels thro’ Galloway, he came to a houfe, and lookingin the goodman’s face he faid. They call you an honeltman, but if you be fo, you look not like it, you willnot long keep that name, but will difeover yourfelf tobe what you are. And fhortly after he was made toflee for (keep Healing. In that (hort time he was in Ire¬land, the governor required of all presbyterian miniHersthat were in Ireland, that they fliould give it under theirhand that they had no accedion to the late rebellion atBothwel Bridge,in Scotland,& that they did not approveof it: which the molt partdid,Sclent Mr. Thomas Gowan*a Scotfman, and one Mr. Paton from the north of Ire¬land to Dublin, to prefent it to the lord lieutenant.The which when Mr Pa.len heard, he faid, Mr. Gowansand his brother Mr. Paton are Cent and gone the devil’serrand, but God will arrelt them by the gate. Accor¬dingly Mr Gowans by the way was-(truck with a forelicknefs, and Mr. Paton fell from his horie, and brokeor cruftn his leg, and both of them were detained be¬yond expectation. I had this account from fomc wor-tv,v chrittians when I was in Ireland.1 j8. In the yar 1682, he married John Brown m Kyle,>- I )at his own honfc in Pr C!t-‘ all, that (insular Chriflian,upon Marion Weir, after marriage he faid to the bride,arion, you have-fjot a pood man to be your husband,but you will not enjoy him lonp, prize his company,and keep linen by you to he his winding fheet, for youwill need it when you are not looking for it, and it will.pe a bloody one.This came ladly toT^Ts in the beginning of MayI1685, as afterwards (hall be made appear.19. After this, in the year 1682, he went To Irelandijagain, and came to the houfe of William Steel in Olen-ijwharry, in the county of Antrim, he.inquired at Mrs.Steel itThe w .nted a iervar.t forhhrefhing vidtual ? Shelaid, they did, and enquired what his wages were a dayor a week: He faid, The common rate was a commonrule; to which (he afienteJ. At night he was put tothe ham to bed with the (ervant lad, and -that night hejfpentin prayer and groaning up and down the barn. Toporrow he threfiied viifhnl with the lad, and the nextbight he fpeht the fame “Way; the fecond day in themorning the lad laid to his millrefs.. This man flecpsjnone, but groans and prays all night, I got no deepjfor him , He threfhes very well, and is not fpating ofipimfelf, tho IthinK he has not been tiled with it, for liepan do nothing to the botteiing and ordering o( thejbarn ; and when I put the barn in order, he goes tolitbeh a place, and there he prays for the affiidfed churchfScotland, and names (o many people in the furnace,ie wrought tire fecond day, and his millrefs watchedoverheard him praying as the lad had bid ; at night •he delired her husband to enquire if he was a miniiter,hich he did, and delired him to be ftee with him, ande Should not only be no enemy to him. but a friend toim. Mr. Peden laid, lie was not afhamed of his office ;and gave an account of his circnmltances : he was nomore fet to work, mor to lie with the lad, and he Itaid;li co dider ible time in that place, and was 1 blelfed in*Ilrument in The convcrlion of ;ome, and civilizing of o~.Ihers, tho that place was noted for a rude wild people,land the fruits ot his labour appear -unto this day.,lrhere was a lervant. I ils in that houle that he could not.|ook upon but with frowns; and Sometimes, when at.Tamily worlhip he laid, pointing to her with a frown-,; ng countenance, Yon come from the barn and from theoyer reeking in your lulls, and fits down among us,we do not wint you nor none (uch. At lalt he laid‘.o William Steel and his wife, Put away that unhappyB • laliifiMPJaTs from your hoofe, for fhe will be a Ham to your fa^miiy, for (lie is with.child and will murthcr it, and wil[be punifiied for the fame ; which accordingly came to.pals, and Ihe was burnt at Craig-,Fergus, which is thetifual fmnifhmeHt of murderers of children th.ere. 1 hadslris account from John Muirhead, whp (laid much inihat houfc, and oiher Chriltiaii. people when I was inIreland.20. On the 2d day of Auguff 1684, he was in a Chri*flian Scots woman’s houle, called M irgtet Lumbernor ;that day there was an.extraordinary Ihower ot big hail,Jitch as lie had never fecn toe like. She faid, 1 ataean be the raear.ing.ofthts extraordinary had ? He laid,Within a few years there will bean extraordinary ilorrnand (hower ofjudgment ported out upon Ireland ; hulAleg, faid he, you lliail not live to fee it. And accor-.fiingly (he died before that rebellion ; and the red had adTad accomplilhmcnt at Derry and the water of Boyn.21. On the fecoixi of February itSj, he was in th« (houfe of one Mr. Vernor, at night he and John Kilp i-iirick, Mrs. Ver.nor’s father, a very.old worthy Chrif.tian ; he laid to him, John, the world may very weli-want you and me. John faid, Sir,~I have been veryiruitlefs and ulelefs all my days, & the y/prld nuy wellwant me. hut your death will be a great iofs. WellJohn, laid he, you and I will be both in heaven (hort-Jy ; but tho you be much older th in I, my (bul will getthe forelbrt of yours, for I will be lir't in heaven ; butyour body will have the advantage of mine, for ye willget red.in your grave untiUkerelurrcItion ; but for msI mud go to the bloody I n l (this was his ordin ryway of (peaking, bloody or (infuUan I, when he Ipake olScotland) and die there, and the enemies out of theii.great wickednds will lift my corps unto another place;but I am very indifferent, Jol n, fqi I know my bodyJhall ly arr.org thedudof rhetcartyrs, tho they flioult!take my old hones and m :ke whidlea of tfein, they wilpH be gathered together in the morning of :i.e 1 elbmo¬tion ; andibea, John, yo- and I. and all th. t will bsfoun '■ hav’mgoc Chrili’s rigliteoulnpfs, will get day a-ibout with them, sn i give oar hearty -IL-nt to their ct-rnal fentence of damnarion, Fl.e f uue night alte r tbij^iifcourfe while about f tHiily worlbip, abuut tp or i.i o.r.h.-ck <\pl. i ing tile portion of 'c*' ptrre he read, h*faddeniy halted and'barkntd, and f-d t ree'.tunes over. What’s this I feai ? ut.d haikned ig.in a littf «.Aii.ianu ins hands, anu laid, I hear a de„u Ihc h. . C u ): the throne of Britain ; let him go yonder, he his brA'black ii^ht to thele lands, efpecially to poor Scotland ?iie're well quit ot him ; there has been many a watted-rayer wared on him. And it was concluded by all;ie fame nour, in the fame niglit, that unhappy niinriiarles II. died. 1 had this account from John Muir-■ead an^ others, who were prefent, and confirmed in?ic truth of it by lome worttiy Chiillians when I-was"i Irelands, 22. U, on the 4th of February following, i68y, heeacbeJ at a wood-lide, near the laid' Mr. Vernor^>ule ; 1 e read the whole of the 49 Pfalm j after read*-ft, he charged his hearers, that none of them open-eir mouths to ling, but thole that could do it know-gly and bclievingly ; for fome few lines, few opened"teir mouth ; but as John Muirhead, and John Waddel,ho were prefent, told lolid Chriltians and great fuffer-*•s, who lived and d.ed irt the parifh of Cambufnethenr'Shets, laid to me, they and the great part could notbntain and forbear finding, but brake out wilh theircarts and whole llrength, io that they were never vrit-efs toluch loud linging thro the whole Plain). Alter'ng‘ng» it* prefacs he cried ont, Pack-and let us go tocotland^ let us flee from one devouring fword and go3 another; the poor honed lads itvScotland are run-?i£ upon the hills, & have little either cf meat or drink,;ut cold and hunger p and the bloody enemy are pur-aing and murdering them wlierever they find them ;•neir blood is running like wsterupondcafl'olds & fields:: lelet us go & take part with them, for we fear they bars out of heaven.- Oh, fecure Ircfind,- a dreadful day!ij coming upon thee within a few yeart, that they flralVde many miles & (hall not lee a reeking',hoafein tliee 4i'h, hunger, hunger Derry, many a'pale face fh ill beti thee; and fire, fire upon a town; wliofc'ntriie I haveprgot, which was all burnt to afhes.. Thii had an ex-it jccomphfttment four years thereafter.- And for the'Irofanity of England,.and F rnvility & fecurity of Ire-'-.i .nd, tor the loathing and contempt of the golpel, co-iettant-bieaking ^nd burning and innocent blood (liedft Scotiandj none of thele iandb (hall elcape, e’er all beone. But notwitbltanding: of all this, I’ll tell youood news, keep in mind tins year, month aad day, Soemember tha i told you, that the enemies have got aaot beneath their right wing, and they may rife and flyke a fhot bird but e’er this day feven years, the (ft ong--jit of them all fliall fail. Then upon the fixth.,. he wnsB 2- iai( i6 ->m that wood ai! day, and at nij.ht He came to the faitMr. Vetnor’s liotde, where ic>ral of o_ur Scots fuftcrers were; he laid. Why are >e fo diicouraged ? 1 knpvye\ e f>ot ill news of the dreadful muider ul our irienoin Scotland but I will tell- you f'.ood news, that unhappy, treacheroU’S, Icatherous man, who has :n de tinLoro’s people in Seoiltvnd tremble th.ele years by gonehas i>o, hi* I .It glut in a lordly dillyirorn his brotherand he is lying with his tongue cold in Ins mouth. 1 hrnews ot this came :kh to Lekimir lor r^-ijoufs thereafterI he ioieiaid .John Mult iread, and John VVaddel and otiters ot our Scots fuflcier;, w ho had Ireard hint preacthe fabbath day before, concluded, this was the fhot beneath the right wing that he fpok-e of, Chatles II. beinddead the Friday’s night before.23. After tins belonged to be cut ot Ireland, what thrcHthefearlul apprehehlions of that dilmal day of rebellioij|in Ireland, tnat came upon it four years there Iter, ancithat Ire might take part with the fuff’erers of Scotland.|He came near the coatt one morning; John Muir Ihead came to him lying within a hedge ; he laid, HavAye any news, John ? John laid, There is great fear otjrsthe Inlh aiiiing : he laid, Mo, no, the time of their rilaing is not jet ; but they will rile, and dreadful will f   tbe at lalt. He was long detained waiting tor u bark.Jtrot daring to go to public ports, but to iorric remotecreek ot the lea, : Alexander Gordon ol Kinltuir in Gal¬loway had agreed with one : but Mr. Peden would nolail the lea with him, Mr. Peden having iomething othe lorehght ot what he did prove aiteiwards • in thrbegi ntng of Auguft, before this Kinltuir was relievecat Enterken-patn, going from Dumfries to Edinburghpnloner ; w hen the new s of it came to Ireland, our Scottlutkrers their acquaintance, were glad ot the news, e-Ipecially that Ktnltuir was elcaped- He laid, ^ hat 1means all this km lulling r there's lomeofthem reliev- jed the.e, that one cH them is wotth many of him, > e llall be alhan\ed ot him e’er all be done. Being in fhiJHItrait, he laid to Robert W atk, an old worthy chnUi-.nlworthy of ctedit, R.oert, go and take uch a man wit!’jly ou, 6c the lint oark yc can find, comp 1 them, f r th- ytiwill he ike t:.e dog> in Egypt,no one ot them will movtlithen tongue agatmf you ; accordingly Robert and hislcomtrade found it lo, and brought her to that U'' '•!f|place where he w.is. \\ hen Robert and Igs conHraue|came and told him, lie was glad, and very kind & frec >flbut tie kerned to-be under a cloud at that time : he )aiu,JILads J/C i'7 Ta^s, I ' ave loft my proiped wherewith I f#'[[x)k over to the bloody land and toil you and others;riat enemies and triends were doing-: die devil and liddles and rides time about upon otiier. but it I were-ipermolt again, l-ftnll ride iurd, and ipurgaw well :have been praying for'aiwift pallage over to the lin-1 land, come of us what will; and' now Alexanderordonis away with my prayer wind ; but it were goodr td'.e remnant in Scotland, be never law it y tor,e Lord lives, he ihall wound-tlwt intereli e\r he gQt.ie ttage. Whiah f.-dly- came to pals in his lif ,-&ris a reproach 50 it at his* death A little- before they'me off, tie baptitsed a child to John Maxwell a Glai-mv man, who was Hed over from t! e perlecution ; in-sdilcour!e bd'ore baptilm, he bertl out into a raptureretellinf*-that bLck day that came upon-Ireland, andJ days to Scotland, and then good days. Mrs. Max*d; or Mary Elph niton, the mother ol the child, yetve in Gk gow, told me this, that in the time he waserting tiu'.e things# !he was thinking and wonderingjhatg.ound ol afL. ance he had for them 5 he erted a-ad, making his hand at her, and laid, Woman, thouthinking and wondering within thylelf, whether Iipeuking ilvoff. t.out of the vilions of my ownlad, or it I be tan;-l« ; y the fpirit ol God ; but 1 tell'lee woman; thou in .it live & ie_- that i am-not mil-taken-.,d told me, that ihe Was very-lately delivered-, a-ed ouc-her gteat delire to have her child baptized before he-jnieoff, that Ihe took tr.ve) too loon, and b ing weak,d lo lurprized witn telling her the thoughts ot herart, tliat Ihe was in dinger-of falling oil ihe chad .. thitvexercile ail j lie told t;.sm> that he could not winhe got thi: d ne, and this was all the dunk mo-*j 1.e-hjd left in Ireland, and to the tamiiy ^pointingtiis landlord) lor all the kbidnels he hau met with->a: them. After baptilm they got breskfalt : theic's plenty of btead- upon the table, and leeki-Rg a bfei’'iG be put his iuHvl beneath the bicad, holdmg it up-nKich arfcction and tears, laid, Lord, there is a well'terta- table and-pieiHy of ore d-;-bur-wli.it corses ofpoo., youngkr-ndly, nonelt- Lff Kenwick, thuS-uirs-^us all, i,i (raying andmoldivig up ; is I.untinjp.tys. A lucid,- when - t all the chikiren Ihe lias brougne-M» ’•bets s none wi4l av-. wedly take 11 r.-by tf.o iiand1 ‘•-•c poer, cold-, hungry i.us upon the hills ; l^r thoaour ot ihi.'.e owivoau e, let tiiem not llarve , tfioAih-d.:a-.e o-aseedy ol lleih irffii., to Ki.r4( 18 ^ .Elijah, ami then fed thy people in the wildernefs uangels food, and hldled a tew loaves and tmall tilhes ^made th m i. ftdent tor many, and had exp.-ri-. upeWJiit, we.rin. is. eold at d lumper, and enemies u.ihunting !•. r thy liie while in the worL ; look to theand .pi'ovid lor t em ; well get theNduck-llonelea', ing linn and them.n” wai ers being advertih d of the hark being in tplace, tiiey and other people c me upon them, winchb i:;eJ them t it were to come off, to lecute the 'vau||an i p opie tltogether tor tear ot the gatnion 01 Cr..I.h’. gus apprel e. mng them, being ni-r to it, whiclclb.igvu th ra o com;'off immediately, however n mijPhe with mem , aft, r that lie and 26 ot our Scots utiwers c me abotrd, he Itood upon the deck at d pra>o|being not; tne leatt wind, where he made a reheat 1ot tunes aim pl tces. when and where me Lord i- ad heJjand an aeteJ them io the day ot the r diltreis, and n ltney were in a great itr it. Wav. g his liand toilweii, Irum whence he delired the wind, Lid, Lord, glus ■ 1- oi-tuli ot wind ; till the tails, Lord, ana give utveih gule, .nd let us h \e a Iwitt p..ii.g‘ over to 1Woody 1 nd, come ot t-s what will. John MuiihesRobert \V.,rk^aad otitors wno woe jj.eient tol.; 1*vhit when lie began to pray, me tails were 11 hangihraight down, txu e’er he ended, they were all Itblown bladiers y.they putout the waiters anu other peg.e, and got a very iwid and late pit&ge. 1'hc 26 setluffereis iltat were with kirn, having provided th. ml ehvim aims, and being dehgncd to return to So.hmd, being then luen a noile ot killing (,aiiQ it.deed ttihv was no-g eater than tiie d ed) it being then n theat oi killing tune, in the end o! t'ebiuiry i68y, wh.at exerciie at niglit in the bark, he LiJ, Lord, onknoweit ihir lads are hot Ipirited, lay an arieu upt •cm tlrat tliey may not appear ; their time is not >eltlin Monmouth and Aig,\ il be coming, they’ll woik fldeliverance. At mat time there was no report of th Icoming, tor they came not tor ten weeks thereaitIn the morning after they landed, he iedlurtd belcKiey par.ted,.lining upon a bjae lide, wiicie lie had le:ini tin ea.ni.igs aj;ainu Scotland, Lying. The time weoE».ng!n that they might tr vel many miles' 111 OaliWay and IS.n>i. d l;> Air, and Clyd dale, and not le.rcening houie, m r hear a cock crow : and turtiier tai'1 ii.it liis ioi.i tremb eU to tin k uhit wou.d become 1die induigpJ, backtiidden and uplitu n nnnittcrs o! Seela il t |( 19 )_land ; as tVie Lord lives, none of them fhall ever be ho-nonrd to put a right pm in the Lord’s tabernacie, i.oraflert Cnrilt’s kingly pierogauve, as head jiiJ king ofhis ciiurch i'o the fame par.po.e laid the never to beiorgotten Mr. Donald Cargil, within eight hours othis martyidum, that he tea rod, rho there were not ano¬ther uiiniltry mall t1 eearth, lie would make no more uleoi t em m a national reformation; but lend mejotuljudgments 0, 011 them!- Ives, and a kmg.coife upon ilieirposterity.- And Rutherforn laid, m ins day, i6y6, i hatiad and heavy were the judgments and indignation 110111the Lord, th t was-abiding the unlauntul wauhai-11 otScotland ; ine.nmg the unhappy re.oiutiocersl v\ henended, he prayed earnellly lor nu y thn.gi ; paruuu-lariy, ihn all theii Irtland-lins mig t be buntd 111 thatplace, a d migju not ipiead with tucm dnougii -he 1m-tul land.24. When the greater pari took their farewel oi lum,he laid to the relt, to what houle or place lha.i we go !One Hugh Kennedy lah,, We will go to Inch a i^.ulc.He laid, Hewie, we will not get out noie in theiey lorthe De ll and ids bairns are there. NotwithhandingHugh went, and found the I pule lull oi the enemies ;and that nigtit a woman in thui hou.e made away withhcrlelt. Hugh came quickly b. ck, and told 1,1.11 He! id, vVe’ll go to luch a houle, i have an errand there.When they went, thegood wife w as dy ing, unoci greatdoubis and tears ; where he was a bieiied iniirumeui ofeo.niort to her ; and laid to Hugh, Hewie, inis is theerrand I had here.2£. t'hey went ealtward fomewhat contrair to hisinclination ; they cuttle to the top ol an lull, upwardsoi two miles dnunt Irom the piace t. ey deligiuo , hehalted und laid, 1 will not go-one loot iurthe; tins way ;there is undoubtedly danger belore us. An iiuio i^dbeing there, tie gave him a groai, and delned mm 10go to that houle, and letch them meat ana news ; wiunthe Ld came to tbehouie, tiie good-wile halted tx gavehim meat to them, laying, Lad, ion nard, and tel, tlicmthat tne enemies are Ipiead, and we ..re looking ;orthem here every nnnu c. As the lad was going iiomthe lioule, eighteen ol the e. ennes loot were near, cry-ing, Stand, dog. I he Ld ran, an., lix ot ihrm purh.tdhalt a nnle, ana tiled hard upon him-;, tne b .ll went cluieby his he.d. A!) t at time Mr. Leaen coniuiuto inprayer lor him aione, an-j witn the rclt, being twelveKisn; wnen praying wit.i them, he lain Loru, ihailtheIKiv-; fc 26 ytfe poor lad that’s fjone our errand, feekin/t bread tiilupport our lives, lofe his i Direft the bullets by hishead, however near let them not toileh him; RoodLord, (pare the lap of thy do k, and cover tlie poor lad'.And in tnis he was heard and anfwered, in that therewas a dark cloud of milt parted h.im and them.26. About'thfs time there was an honett poor wifibrought him and them (ome bread & milk ; when feek>ing a b!effing, lie laid, As the (J jHe of the times, now inthis bioody land, this poor woman has endangered herlife, in bringing brebdto lupport ours’; we cnnot payher for it, but, Lord, it is tor thy fake (he has bioughtit; there’s no need that Ihe (bould be a lofer a' tby hand'thou givelt plenty ol bread to many thafaremot (b wor¬thy of it; giving does roti mpovrrifn thee, & withold¬ing does not enrich thee; give this poor wit? twenty,bonnaeks fos thefe few. And the wife laid (everal timesafterwards, Ihe got iwuny bonnacks; for alter that, (heWas never (b llrairned for bread as -before*.27. About this time, upon a fabbath night, h.e preach¬ed in a (liield or (lieep-houle, in a delert place ; a manHanding a; the door as he came in, he gripped him Scfilid, Whs-re are you going, (ir, go home, you haveneither art nor p-..rt witn ns; third will’be a black ac¬count heard ofyou e’er long: Accordingly, very Ihort-ly thereafter, he went to E tinburgdv, atK! 100k the blacktrih That- nigl-.t he ledfi red upoij the 7th chapter of A-l wHlfer a plumb line in the nudfl ofmy people,the houfc oflfrael. He cried out. Oh how few ot the ini-nillets of Scotland will anlvier tins plumb-lineLordlend'us a W e! wood, a CargH'and a Cameron, & luch isthey, and nvike us quite of tie re r. And l ’will rifegdir.fi the houfeof Jeroboam with the fword. He 1 ltd, Iwill tell you good news, our Lord will rake a fe.hrout of the Antichrrlf's wing, which lhall bring down t eduke of York, n , bandh iim out of thefe kingdoms, Siwill romove the bloody (word from*above tne neads ofhis people; and there will never a man of the name ofStewart lit upon the throne ot Siitain .ftei the duke ofYork,, whole reign is now Iho’t lor their lecheryvtreachery, tyranny, anrl tiieddmg the precious h ood- ofthe Lord's people: butl on, b-ack, black, black, willthe day be that w II come upon Ir.land, that-1 .y lhalitr.vcl forty mdes Sc not lee a re km , ho !e, o he; acockcrow. At this ie drrfed up 10 his Let a dthapthis hands, and wi.h araviihin; vo;c.c c ied aloud, w o-ry, glory to the Lord, t.wtio-s cc p.cu a bloody j---ti 1 ce>» .! (21 ) : -CTifice, of a fealtd leftimoiiy oif Scotland’s hand ; wehave a bloody clout to hold up, and die lads that p.ot-rhe bullets thro their heads the ia't day at Glentrol, theirblood has-made the clout the redder : when our Lordilooks upon the bloody clout, he will keep the (word ofillis avengingjultiee in the (heath fora time : butifScot-iland lhall not confider the mcrctfol day of thsir vifttati-!On, nor his long - infftring, patience and forbearance lead|thejn ro repentance, as ve far it will not, but hardenthem in their Im, & die gieater patt turn pofpel-proofyand judgment-proof & wax worfeand worfe; then w ill(the Lord accompli!}! all that he has threatned, well-ideierved, forefecn, and foretold day of vengeance ;when he begins, he will alio make an end, efpecially a--■gainlt the houfe of Eli, for the iniquity which they can-Miot bet know. When ended, he, and thofe that werewith him, lay down in the fheep-houfe, and got fomefleep; he rofe early, and went up the Burn-fide,lend (fayed longp; when he came into them, he did lingthe 32d pfalm, from the 7th vene to the end ; when end¬ing he repeated the 7th verfe,Thou art my biding placet thod fnaltfrom trouble keep me free.Thou with longs of deliveranceabout (halt compals me.Saying, thefe, and the following are fweet lines, whichI I got at the burn-fide this morning, and we’ll get moreito-morrow & lo we’ll get d-ily provifion ; he was neverrBehind with any that put their troll in him, and he y.ill': not be in our common, nor none who needily dependson him; and lb we v/ifl go on in his ifrengt'i, mak¬ing mention of his righteoufnefs, and of ins only,i The forefaid James Gobifon went Smiles with him;-when' he took good night, he fai r fir, I think 1 II tievir leeyou aghn; beuid, fames, yeand I will never neet a-gain in time. And two fevcral times he went to Ire-iland before, when they parte.', he told L em that theyd would meet agiin! fie Lid Janies, John Muirheacl. ?£others of our lufferers, who were prdtnt, gave me tbeieaccounts’.||; 28. Shortly after they landed from Ireland in G llo-way, theenemy got notice, they being-Uien in garnfonsfoot and horle, & it being killing time, the alarm cameo tiiena in a morning, that toot ami liorfe were comingupon them; the fotefaid John Muith'ead bring luuckwitli a violent pain in his foreheid, tiiey ffurttd (ip tojiun for it; he laid, Stay, flay, lads, let us pray lor old'John-it—to fin e’er we 50 ; he (food up and faid. Lord, we heiteli that thy enemies and ours are coming upon usthou halt laid thy hand of affiiftion upon old John; hapity upon him, for thy enemies will have none, his blooiwill run where he lies ; (pare him at this time, we kno'not if he be ready to die.- And, as John-told me wtthe tear injiis eye, the pain of his head, and the indilpolition of his body quite left him-, and he Itatted up 8ran with the retl. The enemies feeing thenr, purfuethem’hard, (ometimes the horf'e, and lometimes thefoobeing near them; molly boggifn ground did calf abouflie horles.- After they had ran fbme conlidetable waythey got Ibme little height between the enemy & themhe Hood Hill and faid, Let us- pray here; for if the Lethear not oar prayers, and fave us, we are dead men, &our blood will run like water; if we die, let the enemy]kill us, and let our blood fill up their cup, rbat the dayof vengeance that is coming upon th*m may be haHned.Then he began and faid, Lotd, it is thy enemies dayhour and-power; they may not fie idle, but halt thou atother work for them, but to fend them after us? Sendthem after them to whom thou wilt give Hrength tofleefor our Hrength is gone; twine them about the hill.Lord, and calf the lap of thy cloak over old Sandy, and jthir poor things, and- Hive us this one time, and we’llkeep it in remembrance, and tell it to the commenda¬tion of thy good fiefs, pity, and compaflioni what thoudtdd for us at (uch a time. In rtre meamtims there wasa dark clond of mi ft came betwixt therfit After prayer,he o;dered two of them to give notice of the enemiesmotion, and the relt to go their alone, and to cry migh-jltby to the Lord for deliverance. In the mean timofthat they were thus eXercifed, t ere came polls to theenemy, for them to go and purfue Mr. Renwiek, anda great company with him. After the enemies were!iC called them together, and laid, Let us not fof- h£°ne>get to return thanks to the Lord, for hearing and an- ||Iweting us in the day of our diltrefs ; and charged the Jwhole creation to praife the Lord,and idjured the cloudsto praifr him. Then he lat down at the fide of a well, |and enquired if they hud any crumbs of bread ; fbme of |themhau lome few crumbs ; when leeking a blefling, ha ilaid, Lord thou who blelled the few loaves & fifties, and |made them fuftkient for many, blefs this water & thefe |ernmbs to us; for we thought we (hould never have |needed any. more of thefe creature comforts.29.. A few days after this, the forefaid John Muirheadwasi 2} ')/ns in a houfe alone, at a dillancfe from fine reft, 'Sc theoining was a dark mill, and he knew not whether too, or whereto tind them; only he heard him (peak ofname of a place where he was to baptize fbme chil-ren. He gave a (ixpence to a lad to conduit him tohat place, which was (i miles di(|ant; when he cameie was praying. After baptifm he came to John, andaid, poor Graying fhefp'! how came you toitray from>ihe rclt ? I had a troubled morning for yen ; do not thistjain, Otherwileit will fare the worfe with you.30. About this rime he and John Clark,who ordinari-' was called little John, were in a cave in Galloway ;ipey wanted me-it and drink long, he (aid, John, better: le fhruft through with the fword, than pine away with'[unger: the earth and the fulnefs thereof belongs to(iy Matter, and I have a right to as much of it as willcep me from fainting under hi-s fervice ; go to fuch a/.'jJoule, and tell them plainly, -that I have wanted meat.hp long, dnd they will willingly give it. John.faid, fir, Jtm KOt wiliing to leave you in this place your alone,r fome have been frighted by the devil in this cave :o, no, John, (itid he, you need not (ear that, I willike my venture of him for a time. John went, & the'liople willingly gave him feme meat: When he cam.e'lack, he laid. John, it is very Iiard living in this world,rrt- i.carnate devils above the earth, and devils beneath theaiirth ; the devil has been here (ince you went away :■ufilihave lent him off in haite, we’ll be no more troubiedfith him this night,31. A little alterfthis, he being yet in Callaway,n Muirhead, and fame others being with him, Johnd 'o him, This is a very melancholy weary time, it■ing killing time: He replied, there are more darkary days to come, when your pulpits will be full ofesbyterian minders, and it wilt turn that dark uponu, that many (hall net know what to do, whether toar or lorbe :r; and they fhall then be reckoned happyat wan well thro at Pentland, Bothwel, & Airdfmols,d wan fairly ofi .the Uage, and got martyrdom (orrilf ; for the niinilters will cut off many of the moltioi'j and /zealous godlv at the web’s end; but ] willhid in a grave. They enquired, What will becomethe teltimo/, y of the church of Scotland; Then heitK.d the bonnet off his head, and tltrewit from him,ing, See ye how my bonnet lies ? The fworn to, &1)ed tellimony o( the citur.ch of Scotland, will fall (rotntong the hands of ail parties, and will iy as dole u.poa' C 24 )non 'tlie rrronnil as ye lea my bonn~t ly. rfow lamcntably is this accompli(hed to ti e oblervition of all wh<fee with half an eve ! , , ,27 this time it was felJorn that Mr. Peden coulibe prevailed with to preach, frequently anfwerinR anadvilinjr people to pr iy metkle. laying, It was priyin..,folk tliat would win thro the harm : they w«u!d gt|preaching both m ikleand good, but not meikle goo*of it until judgments poured (>ut to lay the Itnd d^foUte. And at other tim-s, We needed not look forgreat or good day of the go^el, until the fword of tljFrencl were amon/>!f t ' make a dreadful tUugtter; and after that, hra good days. He and M-. D;mid Carg'l faw as it had been with one eve, and (pawith one hreath; and frequently, when they preit ato preach, he had the fame ex predion* in his antwers.*2 Three lads murdered it Wifuonn ; at the ia?tim- he was praying at Cr dgmyne, many miles dillancried out. There’s a bloody larnfice put up this d,Thcf. wee ihelideol'Kirkelly, enJ tldwho lived near. knew not of it ill it was pad. I •this account from William M'Rougtl. an old maFerrytoun, near Wigtonn, worthy of credit, who1>r,!f nt.\r((,r this, in \uch-ngrooch muirs, in Nithfdcaptain John Mathifon and others being with him. twere alarmed that the enemies were coming fa.I tu|them they defigned to put him in fnme hole andv»r him with heather, he not being able to run barre Tom of his age ; he defined them to forbear a littletil he prayed, where he faid. Lord, we are ever ne-dar thv hand ; and if wehad not thy command to calth-e in the day of our trouble, and thv promtle otifwering us in the day of our diftrels, we wot not vlwould become of us; if th6u halt any more work f<•u this world, allow ns the lan of thv cioak the dptin • and if this b- the day of our going o4 the ftfet us win honelttv off, -and comfortablv thro, ancfouls will ling forth thv praifes to eternity for •'thou halt done to us, and for us V'',n ’his done a littH. and came quu kly back, faying, T|the fftternefs of this Walt is over; we I h_- no»rovahled with them to day. Foot and horfe cam,{loo rh of \n 're v Cl ok’s in \ngengrooch whenwere covered with a dark mill; when they fiw it.1 ike flefhly devil',an ' cried out, There s t irl'i/lau,ired ikef1emiyaeviis,an iliic,......, ■ -oded milt again, we cannot get thefe damn d.V 7^I; !>hn Matthifbn.35. About this time he was in a houfe in th.e (Tii’e of| ir, where Janies Nifbet. ytt iiving in the caltle of E-! nbur/th, can bear witnefs to the truth oHltis; at night■; was ffanding before the fire, where he uttered fomeiprecations upon tlie curled inteligenters, who hadoid the enemy that he wtas come out of Ireland. Whenliimes took him to the place whetehe was torelta little,-.mes laid, The lervants took notice of your impreca-i£>ns, upon the inteligenters. He laid, ye will knoww-morrow-about 9 o'clock, what ground I have for it;Iwilh thy head may be prelerved ; forit will be in dan-•r for me; I’ll take my own time and be gone from-is hotifc. Sometime in ,that night he went to a defertace, and darned himlelfin a mofs-hag. The nextcorning James was going at the harrows, and about 8the clock, there was a troop ol the enemies Ibrround-g the houfe ; when James faw them he ran for t; theytrliied him hard, till lie wan to a mofs, where theyibuld purlbe him no further with horfes ; they firedaon him, and he having knots upon his hair on eachdeof his head, one of their bullets took away one of: e knots. He ran where Mr Peclen was, who faid,h, Jamie, Jamie, I am glad your head is fife, for I■tew it would be in danger. He took his knife & cutvay the other knot.1 36. About this lame time be and James Wilfon inouglafs, a lingular known man tomany, wasatAirdf-:ofs; and being together lemetime without fpeaking,■I Mr. Peden’s ordinar was, when there was an extra-i dinar thing in his head, they came to Mr. Cameron’s■ ave, where he and other 8 were buried. After fomc-ne fitting on the grave, he gave James a ciap on theiDulder with his heavy hand, and laid, I am going tot; 1 you a Itrange tale; James faid, lam willing tohear’nheI d, This is a llrange day, both of finning and fuffer-|g, (as indeed it was, it being killing time, whereinJiny fainted and could not endure ilia fcorching heatthe perlecution ; and to fome the Lord in his loveve gourds of llrength, Ibpport and comfort, thateped them from fainting) but, faid he, tho it be aeadful day it wiil not Jail long; this perlccution willllopt within a few years, but 1 will not fee it ; & ye'relonging & praying for that day ; but when it conies,will not crack lb much of it as ye trow. And ye re aiin man, James, and many others, with your bits ofCpaperspapers and drops of bJood. (meaning our martyrs Ulimonics and blood) and who but you, and your bitspapers and drops of blood ! but when that day come-there will a bike of indulged, lukewarm, cmini(te,come out of Holland, England and Ireland, togethwith a bike of them at home, and fome young thin,4hat know nothing, and they will all byve together ingeneral allembly ; and the red hands with blood, a:,the black hands of defedlion, will be taken by the banand the hand given them by our minillers; and ye wff;rot ken vho.has been the perfecittor, complycr, Qr'l'ujferer ; and your bits of paper and drops of blood wi^be (hut to the door, and never a word more of them,ye and the lilteofyou will get their back-fide. He gavJum anotlier lore clap upon the fltoulder, faying, Keejnind of this, James Wilfon, for as the Lord lives,will (urely.cQme to pals. Janies Wilfon told me thihortly thereafter, and renewed it again the firlt gen.ral aflembly, when he and I, and many others, faw tlaccomplvftimerU of this in every particular to Our gre|lgrief.37. In the beginning of May 1-685, he came to tlhoufe of John Drown and Marion Weir, whom he mailried before he went to Ireland, where he .Hayed tinight; and iji the merning, when he look farewelhe came out at the door, faying to hinifelf, Poor wdman, a fearful morning, twice over. A datk mil Imorning. The next morning, between live and fhours, thefaid John Brown, having performed tlie wdIhip of God in his family, was going with a-fpade in t|hand to make ready fbme peat groud •, the milt beltvery dark, he knew not until cruel & bloody Claverkoexompalled htm with three troops of horles, brougjhim to bis houfe, end there examined him ; whe tho\vas-a,man of Hammering fpeech, yet anfwered idillinflly and Iblidly ; which made ClaverhouGe to exmine thefe whom he had taken to be his guides thro 1muirs, if ever they heard him preach? They anlwicJ, No, no, be was never a preacher. He (aid, II he 1never preached, meikle has he prayed in his time:.;j'aid to john, Go to your prayers, tor you fhal, imndiately die. Wh.en he was praying Clavcrhoule int,j0pted him three times; one tine that he ftopt him,,was pleading that the Lord W'ould fp .re a remnant, anot make a lull end in tne day of his angef. Clavfcoufe Lid, I give you time to gray, anu ye’re beguni pi.ea( 27 ''rfeach : He turnedabout upon ids knees, and fLud, Skyou know neither the nature of preaching nor praying,ut calls tiiis preaching ; then continued withoutcon-'rfion. When ended, CljverhouSe laid, t.ke goodntght-i your wife and children r llis wife Handing by' wither child in her arnis that Ihehad brought forth to him,ad another child ot his Hrlt wife’s, tie c^me to her," id laid, Now, Marion, the day is come, that I'said you would come, when I ip;ke fint to you otijarrying n:e. She laid, indeed, |ohn, lean willingly!|jrt with you. Then he laid that’s ail 1 delire, I have?o more to do but die. He killtd his wife and bairns,pu wifhed purd]j(ed and proraifeti biellings to be mut-jphed upon them, and his bldiing. Clavers or-pred 6 foidiers to ftnot him' ; the molt part of the bul-rs came upon his head, which Icaitcrcd his brains upon, teground. Glaveihoulc (aidito his wile, What think"! lit thou of thy husband now, Woman 2 She Hid, i thoughtI'er much of him, and now as much as ever. He laid,' v/cte but jullice to lay thee betide him. She Hid, ifi1 s were permitted 1 doubt not but your cruelty would■ J “'at length, but how will y e m..ke anlwer for tiiisi orning’s work ? He (aid, to roan 1 c an h>i anfwerable ;id tor God, I will take him in my own hand. Glaver-'oule monnted his horfe, and marched, and left her withe corps of her dead husband lying there ; (he let thei irn upon the ground, and gathered his brains, andrd up his head, and llraigiited his bouy, and coveredni in her plaid, and fat down and wept over him.1 d very defart place, where never vitflual grew,nd far from neighbours, it was iometin e before .myii ends came to tier; the fir It that came w4s a very hefind, that old lingular GhrUtian woman, in ti.e Guni"’rhe d, named Haiaoeth Menzies,three miles diltanr,10 had been tried with t:.<j violent death of her hLi¬nd at Petuland, afterwards or two .vorthy ions, Tho-as Weir who was ktiled at Drmnclog, ut.J Davidrel, who was ludJeniy (hot aftrewatek, when taken,he (aid Marion W cir, iiuing.upon her Husbands grave-me, told me, That btiote that, die could ice no bloodt Ihe \yas in danger to iamt, and yet wasl clped to bewitnefs to all this, without either fainting or confu-an, except when the Ihots wete let ofl, her eyes daz-d. His corps w'ere liuried at the end of his houle,here he was llain, wirii this infeription on his grave-lane.CaIn'**•»*. JM*****'nr( 28 )In earth’s cold bed the dulty part here hes,Ot one who did the earth as dull chlpi.c.Here in this pUcc trotn earth lie took departure.Now he has got the gariaod of the martyr. tThis murder was committed betwixt 6 and 7.111 1,1morning : Mr. l-'c.ien was about loor it niiles uihanhaving oeen in the fields ail night; he came to tnc houbetwixt 7 ana 8. and deiired to call in.ihe i.mniy, t.ihe might pray among,!! them ; when prayin;*, ne latLoiti, when wilt thou avenge Brown s hlooo . On, >Biown’s blood be precious in thy light ! and haltcn th|day w.-en thou wilt avengeit, with CanKroB’s, Cargtiand many others oi oar mirtyrs names; and O lor tintday when the Lord would avenge all their moodt-J\\ hen ended, John Muir head enquired what he meatby Brown s blood ? He laid twice over. What oOmean 1 Clavtrhoule has been at the Prelhil this morn hing,, and has cruelly murdered John Brown y his corp uare lying at the end of his houfe, and liis P°?r wire litlitig weeping by his corps, and sot a foul to (peak conn •lonabiy to her. This morning aft r the fun-rmng,jaw a grange apparition in the firmament, the appearance ot a very bright clear-fhining liar, fdl fi'°rn T11\en to the eartli ; and indeed there is a clc.ir-lhinmjlight lallen this day', the greateif Chrilii-n that everconverted with. " . j38. .-iltet tins, two days before ArgyJ was broken Itaken, he was near Wig toon in Galloway ; a conimer •uote number ol men wetc gatheted togetlier in arms ugo for ; is alliibnce y tticy pretfed him to preach ; btfnc pohttveiy' retuled, laying, he would only pray witthem ; where he continued long, and (pe-t Ioiik parc; that time in praying (or Ireland, pleading, 'cut t.aLord would (pare a remnant, and not make a I ml eu«in me day oi his anger y and would put it in the heart01 las own, to lice over to this bloody land, where t'Myjwould (inu iafety tor a time. After prayer, they golotne meneis, whoand hega'. e everyone of his old panlliottere there,' a Viece out of his own hand, caling them his bairns: then lie advned ail to go no funinci ; out, Ida lie, for you that are my bams, 1 1marge you to go your toot-length, for bcloie you cttr rvei liiat length, he will be broke ; an.’, too it \u.‘not lo. God wili honour neither h'un nor Monmout L ®pc initruments ol a goood turn to his church, they iav|dipt their hands fo far in the perfecutkm. •Wm ' _lame day that Argyll was taken, Mr. Gcotge bate ay\V M.. ( 29 ) . ,' was preaching and perfuading men in that country (o:o go to Argyll's adilbnce. After fermon, he laid totlr. George, Now, Argyll is in the enemies hands andi ;one; tho lie was many miles diltant. 1 had this ac-: ount from fome of ihele his bairns, who were prdent;nd the lali from Mr. George Barclay’s (elf.39. After this, he was to preach at night at Penga-■ ocli in Garrick ; the miiirefs of the horde was too openainded to a woman, who went and told the enemy, andjrame back to the home that ihe might not be lulpeft-j J ; Mr, Peden being in the fields, came in lialte to the(Gar, and called the inid refs Tan d laid, Ye’ve played aonny fport to yourfelf, by being lo loofe tongued;ae enemy is informed that I was to drop a word thisigbt in this houle, and the perlbn who has-done it, isa the houle juit now, you’ll repent it; to morrowdoming the enemy will be here : Farewel, I’ll Hay nojijtnger in this place. To motrow morning, both footI ad horle were about the houle.40. In the fame year, within the bounds cf Garrick,bhn CJark in Aiuirbrock, being with him, laid, Sir,hat think ye of this prelent time ? Is it not a dark rne-Iuchaly day ? And can (here be a more dtlcouragiiigme than this ? He laid Yes John, this is indeed a darkfcouraging time ; but there wiil be a darker time thanits; 1 heie Idly, gi-.cdeis, wretched creatures theiraies, Ihall go down, a..d alt-r them dull arife a par-called Presbyterians, but I aving little more than theui,e; and thele (hall as really as Cliritt was crucifiedithout tue gates ol Jerul dun. on mount Calvary, tru¬ly > 1 fay, they ilud as really cracily Gdrilt in hisu.e and interelt in Scotland, and Ihall lay. iiitn in his--'ve, and ins friends ihall g.ve him his winding-Iheei,id tie (hail ly as one buried lor a conli.ierabie time. Oen, John, there wiil be duiknds. and dark days, fuc 1tne poot' church ol Scotland never-law the like oicm, nor (hall lee, it once ihcy were over ; yea, John,ey Iliad be lodark, that it a pour di ng would go bt-■ -e,: tne Cwii lea-bank -and tlie welt lea-bank, icekiugjniniiler to .vliorn they would cdmmuiitcaie-tiieii calc,,teii tneui tire tumd oi tiie Lord concerumg ,|te times,■“.it Slot lUid one. John alkcd. Where uie tetUtno,*iiiouLl be then : H« anlwetcd, In the i.atids o« a few,,10 Uud >c adpited and undervalued by all, bat c.pe-■ ‘iy tuck .uuniters who buried Ctirill ; da: _!.erii. 0^ .an ■ get up upon tucm ; and a: me crack ot nis*‘•Untg-.iu ut, as many of tiictn^ts arealue, who we.,;-Aat liis burial, (TraiT beknowing what to doc! iy =, inch ns ;hc ch :bat I (hall not fee them, hut yoa m y.4J. In the fume year t6S5, preaching in the nigljttime iruA barn at Garrick, upon that text, Plal. ixviii hi1,2- ‘ E't God ariie, and let his enemies he icattered : lethem that Ha'tc hin; flee bf fore him. As fmoke is drivenfo drive thoa them.’ So inditing, how the enemies anthaters of Ged and godlinel's, were toiied and driven aimoke or chaff by the wind c-f God’s vengeance, whil’on earth ; and that wind would Wow them uli to hell iilVthe end. Stooping down, there being chaff among hisect he took a handful of it, and faid, The duke of York ;the duke of York, and now king of Britain, a known enemy ot God arid godlinefs, it was by the vengeance OGod that he eve r got that name; out as ye fee me throct "•awaj that chaff; fo the ‘.vind of that vengeance fhal :biovv' and drive him off that t’ rone; and he, nor no o {trier of that name, fhaliever conic on it again.42. About this time, preaching in Garrick, in the pa 'riiri of Girvan in the day time in the fields, David Mis ;;foil, then a profeflor, came in haite, trampling upo* .the people to be hear him; he faid, There comes tindevil’s rattle hag, v/e do not want him here. A»tethis, the laid David became officer in that bounds, anc Ian in ermer, running thro rattling his bag, Sc lummoivt ing tiie people to their unhappy courts lor their nonconformity; lor that, he and bis got that name of tindevil s tattle bag, and to this day do. Since the revolution, he complained to his minifter, that be and higot t,.jt name : Tne minilter laid, Ye well deierved it iand he was an honeltman th»t gaveyou it; you & your Imud enjoy it, there’s '.’,0 help lor it.44 . A little before his Ufatifc he was in Auchincloichn - where he was born, in the houie of John Richman, therbeing two beds in one room, one for him and one Andrew , w. o dwelt iri nnd-about the N- w-milns; whei .An, rew oifered to go to his bed, he heard him ver;importunate with the Lord to have pity upon thwe •; ot Scotland, and fpare a remnant, and not make i!tail end in the day of liis anger ; and when he was oft :knees, walking up and down the chamber, crying outOn, ate Monzies, the French Monzies, lee how thej’ , how long will they run ? Lord, cut their houghs^ and ,!ay thcii running. Thus he continued all nightfciui. times on his knees, and lometiraes walking, in thimormng4ornin£, they enquired what he meant by the Mon-: ies ? He (aid, O (irs, ye’ll have a clreadt nl day by the“rencb Monzies, and a fet of wicked men in thele landsdio will take part with them ; the welt o( Scotland willj ay dear tor it; they will run thicker in the water of Airnd Clyde than ever the Highland men did. I lay ini'tat chamber about three years ago, and the laid JohnKichmtn and his wife told me, that thefewerehis words..t other times, to the fame purpple, faying, O thej lonzies, the Monzies, will be thro the breadth andrngth of the fouth and welt ot Scotland ! (> 1 think Iee them at our lire-(ides, drying man, wife and chii-Iren : tire remnant will get a breathing: but they will; *e driven to the wildernefs again, and their tharpettpowers will be lalt.I To the lame purpofe fpoke the two following mi¬nders. viz. Mr. Thomas Lundie, a godly mini iter in!he nenh of Rotray ■, his lifter a lady in that country,ho died '..: the year 1683, gave the following account,'hat t e t iid Mr. Lundie, alter fome (icknels, & feem-ig recovery again, which comforted them ; but oneloruing, it ay mg longer than ordinary in bis c amber,ie toreuid lady knocking at his chamber door, who o-entng it, found l.im more than ordinary weighted ; theIked him the realon , feeing he was now better : where-iijpcn, imi ang, i-.et.dd. Within a few hours I will be fa¬llen trom yo*a ; but, alas ! for the day that I fee coming||pon Scotland : the Lord lias ieitcn me fee the f'rcn-||r,es marching with their armies thro the breadth andj|:ngth of the land, marching to their bridle reins' inShe blood ot all ranks, and that for a Broken, burnt &J uried covenant ; but neither ye nor [ will live to feej:. As alfb one dir. Dooglais, a godly minilter in Gal¬loway, a hate before his death, teeming as (lumbering•|p his bed, his wife and other friends Handing by,ffitheh heawak’d. be leemed more than ordinary weigii-led, and groaned heavily, Tying, lad days for Scot- |and. H:s wife allied him, What will be the inliru-. 'nents ? He laid, the (words of foreign enemies, they/ill be heavy and lharp, but not long ; but they willot be yet, but not long to them : but, O glorious1 ays on the back of them, to poor waited Scotland 144. Somet44- Some notes ofhis latt preface in the Colom wood, a |the water of Air, a little beloie his death.M Y Matter is the rider, and I am the horfe ; I neveilove to title, but when 1 find the ipurs ; I know not wl)1 have to do amongft you this night; I with it may bfoi your good, tor it will be the lait : it is long lince ’was cur defire to God, to have you taken ofi our iianand now he’s granting us our deiire. There are louor five things I have to teil you this night, an ! the firis this, A bloody-iworu, a bloody Iwoid, a bloodIwordfor thee, O Scotland, that Hull tear tne hearts omany, idly, M;ny miles (hail you travel, and tha'lee nothing but deioiations and ruinous waltes in ihee|O Scotland, gdly, The fertilelt places in Scotland tlibe as walte and de-lblate as the mountains. 4thly, Th|women with cniid firall be tipt up and dalhed to pieces:fthly, Many a conventicle has God had in thee, O Scotland; but er long God will have a conventicle thawill matte- Scodand tremble ; many a preaching ha:God wared upci. thee ; bui e’cr long God’s judgment:(hall be a= freijuen as thefe precious meetings werewherein he lent lortfi ills fait ilulaetver.ts to give taithjful warning of the hazatd of thy apodaly' from Godin breaking, burning md burying h:s covenant, perlecuung, llig: ting and come ning the golpel, Hied,ding the precious blood ol ins laints end lerv..t<tsGod lent forto a VV e-wood, a Kid and a Kang, a Gameron and a Gargil, and others to preach to thee ; bue’er long God Iliad preach to thee by lire and a bloodifworu ; God will let none ol tliele mens words fall tot..e ground, that he lent torth with .i comnnllion topie -cli ihele things in Ins tiun.e : he will not let on'leuicuce tali to the ground, but they ihali have a lur>accopiilhn.ent, to the fatf experience or many. In hiprayer aiter - I'.uon, he .aid, Gord, tbo-i halt been Ootfgoou ana kind to oid .sandy, turoa long uadi oi tim ta».o &iveu lain many years in thy i--.vice, which haibeen out as lo m ury uionths , but now he's tyr’d ot tirWotUl, and h.th done the go- in .t that oe will dolet pun win j k.ey w.t., me f .o. . tie h-s, lor ha wt|:gather no nioic.45. eVhen the day oi his deatn drew ne r, and nabeing able to travel, ho came .0 his I r-et » In *the parti! f Sorn, where he was be ' eeau-a cave, wnh a laugbcn-oulii coven ^ -ic mowo*X&ar to his brother’s houfc : the enemies Rot notice, &irched the houfe narrowly- many times. In the timet he was in this cave, he (aid to Come friends, tit,hat God (hall make Scotland a delolation. jdly,here (hould be a remnant in the land whom Godou!d (pare and hide, gdly. They (hotdd ly in holesd caves of the earth, and he (upplied with meat andok ; and when they come out of their boles, theyall not.have freedom to walk, for ItumbiinR on dead|irps. ajthly, A Hone cut out of the mountain (houldme down, and God (hall be a yen Red on the. ftreatis of tie earth, and'the inhabitants of the land, fori;ir wickednefs; and then the church flrould cometh with a bonny-bairn lime at her back of yonuR;es. He wiHied that the Lord’s people niiyht ly hid:i their caves, as if they were not in the world, for no-ng would do it, until God appeared with his judg*:nts, and they that wan thro the bitter and (hortmp ttorm, by the (word of the Frenches, and a let ofm P 11 P - -f happy men tnki g part with them, then there wouldi a fpring-tide day of the plenty, purity and power■khe gofpel; givins their. tLat fop a fum. If he were■It once buried, then they might be in doubts ; butjibe were oftner buried than once, they might be per-sided that all he had laid would come to pafs; andneltly defired them to take his corps out to Airdf-4s, and bury him befide KicHy, meat.hig Mr. Ca-iron, that he might get relt in his grave, for be h :d‘ten litile thro his life: but I know ye will not do>. He told them, that bury him where they would,[would be lifted again y but the man that put firli tohand to lift his corps, four things fkould befal him ;He fhould get a great fill from a houfe. 2diy, Heuid fall in adulftry. 3. In theft, and for theie heid leave the land. 4. Make a melancholy end a-|jad for murder; which accordingly cams to pals.|cre was one Murdoch amalon to his trade, but then:he military fervtce, who hrlt put bis hand to his?s. A little before his death, he laid, ye will bery where I (hall be buried at lait ; but I eifehargeall to lift my corps again. At hilt, one morning' he came to the door,and left his cave; his bro-’s wife laid, Where are you going ? the enemy willacre He Hid, I know that, Alas! fir, (aid /he,it will become of you ? You mull back to the cavein : Fie laid J have done with that, for it is d.icc-’d; but there is no matter, for within 48hours i’llbe■Sj»^ 34 )be beyond the reach of all the devil’s temptations, ani.his inllruments in hell and on earth, and they (hai ■];trouble me no more. About three hours after he en¬tered the houfe, the enemy came and found him not ''m the cave, fearched thc birn narrowly, calling tht iunthrelhen corn, and fearcbed the houfe, (lobbing thtbeds, but entered not into the place where he lay. Hotold them, that bury him where they would, he woukbe lifted again, and within 48 hours he died. He dietHi January a8, 1686, being pall 60 years, and was bu¬ried in the lairs of AfUedt’s iile. The enemies got no |tice ol bis deattt and burialj Cent a troop of dragoonsand lifted his corps, and carried him to Curmiock galiows-foot, aad buried him there, after 40 days beinpih the grave, befide other martyrs His friends therefitter laid & grave-ltone above him, with this infeription |;jHere lies Mr. ALEX A ND E R PE DE N,faithful minijlcr of the gofpsl at Glenluce, veko dtparted this life January 28, 1686, and <was rafeiafter fix 'Weeks out of his grave, and buried here ou\of contempt.After this, that-troop of dragoons came'to quarter iajjjthe pari(h of Cambufnethen ; two of them were quar*|tered in the koule of James Gray, my aequaintanceJthey being frighted in their deep,.darted up, and chp-Hped their hands, crying, Peden, Pedem Thefe two*idragoons affirmed, Fh ;t out of their curiofity they o- 3pened his coffin to fee his corps, and yet tl.ey hadiiciliinell, tho he had been forty days dead: |All the tyranny anp c uelty of tliefe times, by theftenemies of God and godlineis, that were exerctfed Urpun the bodies and'cond iences of the Lord’s people,jiwas faid, Ttiat it was all for rebellion ; there was notground to think or fear that the corps of that fervani 1ol Christ, after (Ik weeks lying in the grave, wouic 1ri e in rebellion againd them. This is fomewliat liki|that which hillorians give an account of, That the p» Ipilh party mtde iearch tor the bones of John Wicklieff 1their oppoier in his life, by his writings, 42 years aftea 1his 4eath they found his bones, but were un cert airWhether they were nis or not, and took them up to thehead of an hill, and burnt them, and gathered up tinaftie* in a pock, and t rew them down a river. MrSamuel Clark, gives anothe inltance ef-a Chriitian Jev, in Italy, who a’fier the popiffi patty had murthered himijlakh35 )'his corps in the open iueet of the dity, prohibit*gall to bury him, where he lay nine days, and in-ead of Itink, they had a (weet charming Imell, whichiduced many people-to Itagd and wonder; which whenenemies found the fweet fmcjl themlelves, they-ufedtake them up and bury them.All theie foregoing inltanoes l am furely informedf, lor matter and lubftance, except the 40th paffage,,'hich is (aid, he {'poke to John Clark in Muirbrock,ithin the bounds of Garrick, in tire year 1685, and hasteen pafling from hand to hand in writ; I fent a friend,3 miles to him for the certainty of it; & altho he wasfy old acquaintance, he delayed to give it; but pro-Iiled to vifit Mr. Murray in Penpont, in September723, and give him a full account, but has„not perfor-ied his promife. Captain Joljm Campbell of Walwood,,s mailer, promiled 10 get ^ true account from him-,|lf, and fend it to me ; b.ur nas not done it. I am in-j rmed, that fame other''friend^enquired at the (aiduphn, who owned, that tlte 40th paftage was all one forter and fubftance Vr ith ^hat'Mr. Peden laid to him.|lhere aie other Iwo callages,-that for many years!/e often heard from fWmds, and doubt nothing ofe truth of them in my own mind, the it be not point-in time and place. ‘hir^L Gntvday preaching in the fields, in his pray-he ptayed ^arnelily for the prefervation of the peo-aiHl. again and again prayed for that man that was ,lofe his life: The enemies came upon them the famey a’tid fired*upon the people, and there was none ofm either wounded of killed, fave one man, and hes fhot dead.A 2d paiiige. Ore time he was preaching, and giving! ery large offer of Chrift in the gofpel-terms : and an1 woman fitting before him, belaid his hand on eve-hde of her head, and rocked her from fide to fide andf'hou witch-wife, thou witch-wife, thou witch-, 1 offer Ci.rilt to thee ; quit the Devil’s fervice,u half a bad mailer ; thou wilt never make thy pieckabee of him; and if thou wilt break off, and' re-ice the Devil’s fervice, 1 promife thee, in my Maf-s name, that be will give thee falvation. After thisre was a dtlccrnabie change in her praflice; anden (he was a dying, fhe confefted, that fhe was ei-r engaged in the devil s fervice, or was engaging;J expiclled her thankfulncis, that fhe had the happi-s to hear Mr. Peden at that time.As