THE,- ,Tragical HistoryOFGeorgeBARNWELLFALKIRK :PRIMED BY T. JOHNSTON.THETRAGICAL HISTORY:OFGeorge Barnwell.M R. BARNWELL, the father of George,|jwas the r-orthy and pious Rector of Hanworth ; ran ornament to society, and a blessing to those 1amiable beings who formed his domestic circle.!An illness, with which he was suddenly at¬tacked, threatened his speedy dissolution: mortification had nearly advanced to its laststage, and he had heard with placid resignation,the opinion of his Physician. Though he feltno pangs of guilt, no dread of future worlds,and though perfectly content to submit to thewill of his Creator, and resign his seui to himthat gave it; yet there were attractions whoseresistless force made him yet wish for a longerexistence. Around that couch from which hewas never to rise, knelt objects, that awakened |in his breast the feeling of a husband father, jand friend. His amiable wife too deeply aaffected to weep, gazed alternately on her ex- |piring husband, and oh those who were soon Ito be the orphan pledges of his love, with thepiercing wildness of despair. Their son ayouth of sixteen held his father’s hand claspedbetween his own, and bent his face over it toconceal his tears. A daughter who was some.3whst younger, with teats and swelling sighsmingled ejaculations to the Almighty, to sparea life so dear. At the foot of the bed stoodthe benevolent friend and skilful physiciap ofthe Rector, whose serene countenance he ap¬peared contemplating with pleasute. “ I couldhave wished (said Mr iiarnwell) that mybrother had arrived; I would have retiredfrom the scenes of this live with less regret,{iad I committed these my only cares to hiskind keeping. But his own good heart willsuggest to him all I could have said.”— Sir James Barnwell, the brother to whom heelluded, entered the room as he was speaking.The knight, after a pause, approached theexpiring Rector, and an affecting farewell tookplace. Tears rolled down the pale cheeks ofMr. Barnwell; he pressed Sir James’s hand,and cast a meaning look on his familj ; thensunk exhausted on his pillow. “ Think of thisworld no more, my brother (said Sir James)from this moment, this is my wife, these aremy children, ‘ and all I have is theirs.” “ My God, I thank thee,” exclaimed the Rector,and expired.The grief of this aimiable family for theirirreparable loss, is better felt than discribed.Sir James was the first to call the attentioncf his sister in-law from the tomb, which heldher affections, to the duties she owed herself,her children, aud society. “ I am a lone man,(said the Knight) and with the blessing ofHeaven, have acquired by my honest endeav¬ours more riches than l shall ever spend.—My brother, I know, accumulated in another4way; his was the treasure of the mind aproper possession, doubtless for a clergyman, |bat for which his heirs are little or nothing |the better, After the loss you hare sustained,my dear sister, I am sure your inclination must ,be to quite this place as soon as possible, I insist upon you and yours accompanying meto my old mansion, where yon shall have leasureto discuss a plan I have in contemplation tomake us ail happy.” A proposal so congenialto their feelings wes readily accepted by the jBarnwells; and, as soon es the requsite ar- ]rangements were made, they set off to the seatbelonging to the benevolent Knight.Adjoining the castle of Sir James, stood theremains of one of those Cementeries for theliving, called Monasteries. One of the Aislesof the Chapel still remained in its original state,and afforded conversation for all the lovers ofromance. Spectres of all sizes and shapes, )feither sex, had been seen by moon or torchlights, playing singular antic, in the old Abbey jChapel! At one time it was a Nun! at othersa Monk ! and now assumed the terrific appear¬ance of a fallen angel, dancing along the Aisles |in a beautious form, to notes of delightful ,harmony! Among other subjects which en- !grossed the attention of the company at theKnight’s ■ table, a few days' after his returnfrom the Rectory, was the haunted Aisle, whichbecame a general topic of conversation. Aftervarious stories had been related of differentappearance, sir James declared that he wouldnot absolutely deuy belief in all stories of thiskind, nor would Lmplicity give credit to all he5heard. “ What thinks my nephew?" said he.George blushed deeply, and replied that hemust confess he had been taught to considertales of this description as ridiculous.——  “ Ridiculous! (exclaimed. Sir James Chaplain,)ridiculous young gentlemen, and wherefore,let me ask yon?’’ “Because being irre-on-qileable to truth and nature, they are beneaththe dignity of serious argument.” Eliza Barn¬well, whose modesty did not permit her totrouble the company with her observations,treasured in her memory all that had been saidconcerning the Abbey. When she retired toher chamber the window of which commandeda view of the ruins, she questioned the servantwho attended her concerning the story of thehaunted Aisle; the encongruous narrative ofHannah increased her curiosity, and she resolvedto pay a visit to the Abbey on the followingmorning as soon as she arose.Sleep did not conquer the senses of Elizawith its usual ease. A slight slumber broughtwith it the following dream: Eliza imaginedthat she had just entered the haunted Aisle,when a tomb that stood at the entrance, ap¬peared to rock at her approach. It then be¬came enveloped in an ascending vapour! theAbbey ruins echoed the groans of one, as itin the agonies of death! and as the vapouidispersed, there appeared kneeling on a tomb,a most beautiful female ! Her eyes swelled withweeping, her hair dishevelled, and blood trick-i ling from her wounded breast; while her handsj in vain attempted to remove a dagger whosepoint was buried in her bosom. Eliza s atten-,/6tion to this Spetcre was so intense, that she didnot notice the form of a man, who stood con¬templating with smiles the agony of the female,until the sound of a harp which he touched ina rapid manner, arapsed her. He was remark¬ably handsome, and his voice, which accom¬panied the harp was melodious. But' the feirmaid was struck with horror, when she foundhis verses were expressive of the pleasure hefelt at the heart-rending scene before her ! Eliza awoke with terror from her dream, and ,doubted for some time whether what she hadseen and heard, were not real. Just as she hadovorcome the impressions arising from so hor¬rible a vision, the night-wind wafted by thecasement of her chamber, the tone of an instru¬ment so similar to that which she had heard in •fancy, that, starting up, she drew aside the cur¬tain, under apprehension of feeholding awakethe vision of her sleep. The chamber was intotal darkness, but the same sounds were re¬peated. She left her bed and Opening thecasement she heard them more distinctly* andwas convinced they came from the Abbey. In a few moments all was silent, and she behelda lighted torch borne along the ruins ! but the,night was too dark to discern the person thatcarried it. That music was not imaginary,she was convinced; but for what purpose anyone would ramble among the mouldering tombs,she had yet to learn. In the morning, terrifiedby the events of the night, Eiiza dropt her in¬tention of visiting the Abbey alone; but u«-burthened her mind to her beloved brother.7“ There is (said George) a singular concid-ence in your dreara with the music you heard;we will take a ramble to the Abbey this even¬ing and should there be in the old Aisle a tombresembling that in your dream, [ think weshould relate the whole circumstance to S:rJames. Murder (added the youth) is a crimebeyond all other offensive to God ; and if,in our dcys, he display a miracle, I can con¬ceive n®thing more likely to occasion ids in¬terference than the- detection of so foul acrime.”At dinner they joined a numerous circle ofthe neigbouring gentry. It wag the customof Sir James to invite them all without ex¬ception once a year. At other times he in-dulgedvhimself in a selection according to histaste. On this occasion he relinquished hisprejudices, and there were at his table, indi¬vidual of as' various a cast as a Circuit of tenmiles round contained. Among those visitors,was one most opposite to the Knight in hisprinciples and manners; Mr. Mental was sup¬posed to be equally averse from, all kings ardail religions. His dress and figure were themost singular to be imagined. He was ota large make, buc thin ; his face pale, his hairblack, and cropped short in his neck ; his dressalways the same, a suit of plain brown cloth.He would eat nothing that had ever enjoyedlife : nothing in which sugar was an ingredient ;and his drink was water. He never smiled,and the only pleasure he appeared to enjoy,was the triumph of argument. The evils otsociety were his dearest topic, and the claim,/8of his felicity was to render discontent , tri¬umphant. . He had been a neighbour ofSir James’s for many years, but saw no com¬pany at his own house, and seldom acceptedan invitation from any other; whenever hedid, it was his invariable custom to single outone from the young part of the company, witnwhom he would abruptly enter into conversa¬tion. Young Barnwell was singled out for thispurpose; and they entered into a long discourse,in which each appeared to take an interest. ;Mental appeared ress and less disgusting in theeyes of George, and George delighted oldMental, who expressed a' wish that this mightnot be the last of their conversation. Youare an inmate of Sir James’s, I presume. ’said he. “For the present, (replied Barnwell) ; |but in a few weeks I shall quite this placefor London,“ “London ! ‘ (cried Mental.)What takes you to that focus of corruption andfolly?” “My Uncle has most generouslyentered into a treaty with a merchant there,a share of whose concern is to become mineafter the usual initation,4’ “ A merchant !(exclaimed Mental.) Can you condemn yournoble faculties to courses of Exchange ? Have Jyou thought what you are about to undertake? iAs you value your happiness for life reflect ; .now is the important moment, the period |of your existance, 'that will glid with pleasure, *or darken with discontent, every scene as yetbehind the veil of time : I feel a lively interestin your welfare, and if you can trust yourselfwith me for an hour to-morrow, [ will venture tosay you will not regret it.". A summer’s day drew towards its close;the well dressed guests of the worthy Knightdeparted, and the family were once more left *t>to icmselvcs.Eliza} with a palpitating heart, accompaniedher brother te the Abbey. They were at theentrance of the Aisle; Eliza trembled. “Stay, (said George,) it is dark, and we arefar from the house; I have little dread ofi ghosts, but it is not impossible that this retreatmay be the rendezvous of beings less merciful,i and more powerful than mere spectres, Do you wait a moment behind this old column,'and listen attentively: I will go on, shouldI there be any danger, you will heir my cries;i then run as fast as possible to the house and; procure assistance.” Eliza’s remonstrance . onI the score of his personal danger were in vain,I and she clung to the pillar in anxious expecta-j tion. A few minutes elapsed; Eliza grewi impatient, at length she heard footsteps ap-i| proaching !—She left her retreat, thinking toi meet her brother, when a form muffled ini a long black cloak, and masked, met her atl the entrance of the Aisle. She screamed !—1 In an instant George was at her elbow; buti the cause of her alarm had vanished. “SurelyI cannot be deceived, (said Barnwell,) it wasa man; I saw him distinctly; a black cloakand mask were lying ®n the tomb, which youdescribed from your dream ; as I approached it,a man, who was kneeling near it, started up,hurried on the disguise, and presenting a pistol,exclaimed,- “ I am discovered !—Ere I hadrecovered my surprise, he was gone.”10Thej walked swiftly towards the house; thefamily were assembled at supper, and the looksof Eliz^ served as a preface to George’snarrative.“ I have heard, (said Sir James,) stories ofthis nature frequently repeated; but till nowI own, 1 never paid a serious attention to them;what has now happened, has determined meto take some active measures towards unravelingthe apparent mystery.”In the morning, the Knight, with the Chap¬lain and George, sallied forth, a few armeddomestics having proceeded them. Arrivedat the Aisle, Sir James demanded of his ne¬phew, “ Are you sure that on this tomb yousaw a cloak and mask ; there you also saw a mankneeling near it; saw him rise amharray himselfin his cloak ? Again I say are you sure nopart of this scene was imagination ?” “ I amcertain, (replied the youth) that I beheld allthat I have stated. Could net this tomb bemoved? Were we in the forests of CTermany,.I should be induced to think that it coversthe door of fome subterraneous retreat..’' “ Aye Sir, (said Joseph, an aged domestic ofthe Knight’s) you are in the right ; to be sureit is no concern of mine, but :f I was a Magi¬strate, this here monument should be pulleddown, and dug under, and my life on it, murderlies at the bottom.” “That cannot be donewithout the consent of the owner, (said SirJames) or some belter grounds of suspicionthan we have at present.’’ Do not. you ownthese ruins, Sir?” said George, “Not this11part of them; all the land on this side, the eldertrees belongs to the next estate.” Georgeasked the name of the owner? “Mr. Mental,the cynic whom you saw yesterday at myhouse. vVhat do you start at, nephew?” “ Nothing Sir, (replied the youth, hesitating.)hut Mr Mental is a strange man.” “ Ah !God forgive him, (said Joseph,) if all thatpeople say be true. ’ “ God cannot forgive. him, (rejoined the Chaplain) he is an Atheist.4’I “ He is undoubted a sigular being, (said thej Knight,) and people will talk, although no-i body, it.seems, khovvs who or what he is.I But [ have heard old men,' who remember hisi first coming to reside here, whisper strangeI stories,4’' After a fruitless search, the party returnedm home. A vnriety of conjectures were raisedfi in the fertile brain of the youth, all pointingKto Mental. He conceived him to be the manij lie had seen at the tomb on the preceding night;1 he imagined the voice he heard to be thatI gentleman; and built, on these impressions! a suspicion to the disadvantage of his character,I Then his heart rebuked him for so illiberala conclusion, from a train of mere accidents;he recollected the invitation he had received,! and resolved immediately to visit him. Hei kept his intended visit a secret from the family,and merely observed, that he was going touke a stroll round the village. The residence< of Mr. Mental was a large old fashioned house,: containing many rooms, of which three onlyt were in use; one served as a kitchin andchamber for an old woman, his only domestic;12a second was the sitting, eating, and sleepingroom for her master; and the third was hisstudy. George rang at the iron-gate; theaged dame appeared at a window, and demandedhis business. Having informed her master,the yonth was admitted. He was conductedto an apartment, wdiere Sarah (his old domestic)told him that Mental would come to him.—After some time spent in contemplating themotly furniture of the appartment, Georgeventured to call Sarah, and informed her, thatif her master was then engaged he would takeanoher opportunity of waiting on him. “ Asfor that, Sir, come when you will, you willfind him at his studies.”—“ Shall I go to him ?”said George. “ God forbid !” exclaimed Sarah ;“ I have been here these twenty years, andno living soul but himself has been in thatStudy.—” At this moment Mental enteredthe room. “Are you really come?” said l»e.“ Has curiosty urged your compliance withmy request?—Be honest Sir, your doubtlesswontlered*how an old fellow like myself couldat first sight take an attachment to your coun¬tenance. Now, tell me, Sir, frankly, whatkind of man you think me !” “ Formingsolely from appearances, my ideas,” repliedBarnwell, “ 1 should suppose you a disappointedman, whom misfortune had induced to quarrelwith the world.” The very notions” saidMental, ‘ I should have imbibed had I seenmy present resemblance at your age, for thenI viewed mankind through the same fairytalescope that you do now; then my delightedfancy saw such guests on earth as friendship,sympathy, and love. 'Frs delusion all !—Do131 not know it?—Have I not felt it?—Oh!”—The gesture that accompanied this apostraphe,was that of the extremest anguish. Georgewas affected, and Mental perceived the emo¬tions he had caused. “ Nay. nay,” said he,“ I meant not to sinuate that 1 am peculiarlywretched; it is the common lot, the destinyof man.— If the detail would not be thoughttiresome,. there are particulars in my ownexperience, that might perhaps, afford youa lesson. I have not tor years talked of myselfto others ; but if you would like to listen tomy tale, nor hold ypur time ill spent—”t“ I should ill deserve so great a favour, -’ in¬terrupted Barnwell, “ if I could estimate itsworth no better/’“ You have/’ said Mental, a heart ofsensibility, and a mind superior to your years*. Hold! think not I compliment, tor in myopinion tire possessing them is a matter thatcalls for condolence more than congratulation.But to my story.‘ My father was a tradesman, who was un¬fortunate in the concerns he undertook, forsome years before his death ; and, at last, brokenhearted with disappointments//sunk poor tothe grave. My mother had gone there longbefore; and at the demise of my father, I wastheir only living descendant. Eie I was eightyears old 1 left my native roof, and became| a member of the public school at Eton.—■ Success favoured my endeavours, and beforeI was thirteen years old, I was qualified forthe University, and my fancy already placedme as struggling for academical distinctien.—But a most unhappy reverse took place. My father died insolvent; and before myfourteen birth-day, a letter from his cousin,and my benefactor informed me that, in con¬sequence of a failure in his speculations, hisfortune was impaired, and that he could not fulfilhis promise of supporting me at the University, anddesired me to consider what trade I should like.—Trade, my soul sickened at the word Apprentice !horror was in the sound. I repaired to the house ofmy relation, and informed him ao respectfully asI could of my aversion to trade. He expostulatedwith me on the subject of such terms, that at lengthI yielded my consent to his plan, which was to bindme apprentice to a grocer, and I was to repair tomy future master on the next day. And now let me,Mr. Barnwell, conjure you to listen to me. Thethirst for knowledge is occasioned by an unquench¬able spark, and must be gratified, or will consume.Imagine not that I approve of that morbid sensibility,so often mistaken by its possessors for heaven born,genius, but the active principle, which neither easenor gain can satisfy; which soars in the regions ofsublime inquiry; and that creative fancy, gazingwith eagle-eye, even on the source of light. Lethim who feels the heavenly gust Obey its sacredvoice ; for I have contended with its power, knowthat genius is not to be subdued. He that submitsto smother it, seeks his own misery and deceives notonly himself but his friends. Every necessary wasprovided for me at the expence of’M r. Darnweli, mybenefactor, and I bade him farewell, with a sigh tomy school companions. I was received by Mr Nut¬ting, the grocer, and his wife, in a little room atthe back of the shop. They appeared plain sort of!1.5I Volks neat in their dress, and precise in their dis¬course, but I soon found they were bigots to Cal¬vinism. I passed my month of approbation, andwith an aching heart signed my indentures. Wheni the business of the day was ended, my apartmentwas the kitchen, my companion an old woman, who1 was the servant, and her friend, a black cat. Imight have employed myself by reading, but un¬fortunately her library consisted only «f thePilgrim’s Progress, and a volume of two sermons,which at that time was little suited to my taste.I passed my time in this mariner till my eigh-Iteenth year, when Mr Nutting was sent for oneevening to visit a stranger, who had lately come toj lodge at the next door, and was now at the point ofI death. This stranger was a man, who, having earlyj in life obtained a considerable estate, had indulged| in every pleasure that a vitiated taste and corrupt1 principles suggested. On a bed of sickness, his heartsmote him ; chance had led him to the house he wasthen in; the landlord was a strict Dissenter of thesame persuasion as Mr. Nutting whose sanctity andi upright conduct had been so frequently proclaimedi in the hearing of the dying man, that he requestedto see him, and to him made an ample confessioni! of his crimes, while he derived from his discoursei a pleasing consolation. There was only one objecti living, for whom, in his present situation, he felt any1 concern ; and that was a daughter, the fruit of anI illicit amour in the west Indies. He had broughther up with the true affection of a father, devoted' a considerable sum to her education, and she nowresided as a private boarder in the same school whereshe had received her tuition, and such was the conk-dence he placed in Mr. Nutting, that he made a willby which he bequethed an estate in Hertfordshire,and a considerable property in the funds to bisl(idaughter, on the express condition of our residingwith Mr Nutting, till her twenty-fifth year, unlessshe married before that time with his consent—Mr Nutting was his sole Executor, and was to re¬ceive the interoat ofher property. The father died,Miss Ellison had visited him at his lodgings, andhadheard of his intentions with respect to her. A daywas fixed for her removal, and I was ordered bymy master to take a coach from Hyde Park Cornerto Kensington, and bring Miss Ellison to the Strand.She was not a beauty, her complexion was rathertinged with an olive hue, but her features were theindex of these inmates of the female breast, whichcharm the heart of man, sweetness of temper andeonquering submission, while the expression of hereyes indicated a superior mind. 1 gazed and re¬ceived an impression nevei to be erased, no never.Miss Ellison brought with her a large quantity ofbooks which had been carefully seleeted for her useby Mrs Harries her late governess, among themwere the works of the immortal Shakespear—These Mr Nutting strictly prohibited his ward fromreading, as he determined that none but works ofa religious tendency, that accorded with his ownideas, should be perused by Ellinor; and I wasordered to replace them in a box and convey themto the loft. Here, my dear George, instead of re¬tiring to my bed I passed most of each night—I tasted every dish of knowledge, and found everydish a dainty. The spring of reason, that had beenstretched to impotence by the bigotry which I hadinsensibly imbibed to this family, seemed, by thisaccident to have recovered its elasticity, and oncemore resumed its operations to the prejudice ofsuperstition.**Hear© Mental proposed breaking olfhis story toanother opportunity. Barnwell took leave, withmany thanks for the confidence he had obtained,and returned to his uncle's.17This night George determined to watch amongthe ruins : and when the rest of the family wereretired, he put on a box-coat, and taking a brace otpistols repaired to the ruins. At the same momentas he entered thehaunted Aisle, he heard footstepsand had scarce time to conceal himselfbehind somefragments of stones, when the same masked figure,that he had beheld tbe proeeedingevening, passsed1 along bearing a lighted torch. Pleasantly the toneof a harp struck his ear : after a few interesting| moments, a voice accompanied the instrument.--i George could no longer resist the impulse of curi-| osity: but^reepingsoftly, advanced along tlie Aisle,‘if the unknown sat on a little stool nearthe tomb on{which lay his mask. The verses which he sung weredescriptive of the agony of his mind, and plainlyS portrayed lus being the murderer ofsomebeautiousfemale. Tne unknown arose Barnwell retiredt a few paces to a spot where he might remain un-ll observed.—“ Am I,1’ said the mourner, “everto; endure these pangs? O that a blow would end them.Fool that I am, why do I hesitate to try ? He drewa pistol ftom his bosom saying. “ This ina moment« brings me to my—would I could save my end—But no, she did not cease to be when I plungedthis steel into her.breast, (holding a dagger witha blood-stained point) for still her ruthless spirithaunts her murderer—steal peace from his pillow,trusses him in his very path—and here, even here,while like an outcast wretch, I mourn away mynights, it follows me and makes a hell!'’ Hereelinedon the tomb, and covered his face with his hands.The suspicions of George were just, his voice, hisl face, proclaimed this murderer to be Mental.—! In a few moments he exclaimed, “ Away this dream! ofhonor! Was she not faithless as fair ?--0, Phy-i sician! omnipotent, Physician Mental art thou turn¬ing Monk ?—Can intercession prevail with the AllISpowerful more than his own benevolence ?”—Not,a syllable uttered by this miserable man, was losrtoGeorge. Three hours passed away, during which,Mental broke out in similar ejaculations, or played !upon a harp. As soon as a distant bell announced,three, he removed a large stone which lay at some;distance from the tomb ; a kind of grove appeared,;in which he placed the harp, lamp, and the stoolthen masked himself, and left the Aisle. The next"morning George contented himself with saying tothe family, that he had been partly successful in hislresearch at the Abbey', and that he hoped in ashort time to be able to unravel the mystery.Various were the emotions that agitated Barnwell, ,as he strolled to Mental’s house. When he was in •}troduced into his presence, he trembled.—Mental|abruptly began with, “ How disimular the manners!of the Nuttings were to those of Ellinor, she sub-;mitted without repining or sulleness to their modelof life. But she was no hypocrite, she ever avowed \her dissent to their doctrines. Blessed with the cor.-jfidence of this charming woman, my situation was!changed from the most cheerless to the most cheer-jtui. In the absence of the Nuttings we read, weconversed together, we wrote and submitted ourperformances to the criticisms of each other. I look-?ed forward witli impatience to the termination of my|servitude, when I imagined I should burst forth intothe world as a prodigy of genius. Having one day!wrote some verses, in which were these words.—.“ If constant my Ellinor prove.”&c I unfortunately,left it on my master’s desk, where he found it - Here's going on,” said he : “ here’s attention :to trade ; Why it is a love elegy, or some such stuff, *to steal the affection of my ward; but I’ll put a st«pto it. If ever I see you speak to her, or even lookat her I’ll.—” Choaked with anger, lie stamped19his foot, and threw down three pots of honey, anaccident which by no means helped to restore hirnto reason. Sometime after this the illness of a re¬lation caused the absence of Mr. and Mrs Nuttingfor a few days. During this time, under a pretenceof going to pay Mrs Herns, the governess, a visit,we left the house, were united toeach other in bonds; which only death could rend asunder. Not to tire' your patience, I shall merely state, that in a few.weeks our union was discovered ; we were bothrudely driven from Mr Nutting’s house. Mr Har¬well, my only friend on earth, refused to set me •.and thus were the proceeding fi ve years of my lifefooled away without advantage either to myself orbenefactor. Eliinor had, while at Mrs Harries,formed some acquaintance with a Mr. Brooker who; was a bookseller and publisher in the city, and with1 whom she renewed her friendship by the assistanceof the above lady; he found us sufficient employ inpoetry and translations. Ellinor wrote a Novel,which succeeded well, and competence was the re¬ward of our labour. We resided in a neat dwellingat YValvtorth, and only visited the metropolis oc¬casionally. At the end of the first year, Ellinorbore me a daughter, who took her name.-But secme my young friend,, to-morrow—Retire now—I am not equal to the task I have imposed on my¬self ; and come prepare to hear a tale of horror.".Towards evening, on the following day, a packetwas delivered to Barnwell, he retired to his chamber|j and bastiely broke the seal; on a slip of paper waswritten these lines ; “ An event which has occuredthis day drives me from a retreat, in which I hadhoped to die. f shall see you no more till we meetin London. 1 shall discover your abode, and will•ot fail to call on you. in the mean time, l havepenned for your perusal the sequal of my story.—20You will perceive what a blank there is in my aflfec- Ition. If the glow of social feeling is ever more to *warm my frozen breast it-must be kindled by you, >Amen. May you never feel the torture that nicks 1the bosom of Mental.’* The narrative ran thus : j. “ Among others who visited at our cottage wasa celebrated painter of that day. He had a person |of manly beauty and his converse was captivating. 'We delighted in th e company of Mr. Linmore, and »he seemed to receive an equal satisfaction in ours.His paintings were the ornaments of ourroom, andthe marksof his favour in our company. We passeda year in the utmost bliss I ever saw on earth.— |In the course of this period, Mr Nutting died, andsmitten with the injustice of possessing a fortunewhich Ellinor's conduct had bestowed on him, on ,his death bed made a Will, by which she regained ?her right, and we became completely independant.My little Elinor was now three years old, and myhappiness appeared complete.— But clouds soondarkened the sunshine of prosperity. Know thenthat the spacious moralist, Linmoreproved himself 'aviiiian. He came to our dwelling and found peace, Jinnocence, and love, he saw a fond pair as natureever designed for each other ; what then was thatprinciple, that could excite the vile design to marsuch bliss? Oh what a void, I felt in my breast,v. hen suspicion pointed.to Ellinor‘s dishonour. Startnot, my jealousy was well founded: virtue wassubdued and vice triumphant! One fatal day pre¬tending some hours absence, I concealed myselfat home. I saw her enter the chamber and in fewmoments Linmore followed. All the powers ofreason fled, my handinstinctivelygrasped a daggerthat was near me; I rushed into the room and aim¬ing a just reward at the seducer's heart, he shrunkfrom my vengence, and it fell on the poor lost21Ij -EHmor. The coward fled, and I wus discoveredj kneeling by the side of my wife, the weapon stillI buried in her breast. I was dragged by force1 from the body, and confined in my own house,! under thecare of some physicians. In a. few daysmysenses returned, and I was able to give an accountof the transaction, which being corroberated byi the flight of Linmore, the Coroners jury returnedij a verdict of accidental death. Though I was not' then deemed a madman, my reason has sustaineda shock it has never perfectly recovered.<!“ Ellinor was then in her coffin, I threw myselfon it nor would I quit it till my strange wish wasgratified, in preserving the coffin-lid as a memento.Another was accordingly made. My cottage atWalworth now became frightful: every room re¬minded me of some happy scene, and brought myEllinor to view. My child how it chilled my bloodto look at her ; I could not bear her presence,I placed her under the care of a respectable person,made a provision for her education, and in case ofmy death left her the whole of her mother's for¬tune. I then went to live in America. Even heremisery pursued me. Scarcely had I settled in anydegree ofintiniacy, and feltsomethiag likehuman-iiy reviving in my heart, when those troubles ofwhich the world knows well, broke out. My friendwas an American by birth and sided with the Con¬gress. My opinions though they did not coincidewith the rulers of England, yet compelled me toresist the entreaties of my friend, to take up armsagainstnnrcountry. I woukihave remained nouter,but that could net be ; and thus, as soon as L beganto cherish love for my friend, my arm was lifted upto destroy him. It was then I was compelled tousethe arms you saw at my residence. One instance ofetributive justice I met with in America which in2-2some degree reconciled me to the notion of a Provi¬dence; the villian Linmore, who had made thatcountry his refuge, was in prison when I arrived,implicated in a charge of murder. He was executedand dissected. I obtained his scull at a large pyice.Disgusted at the scenes that passed before me, 1 em¬braced the first opportunity of returning to England& bought the estate of the Abbey near your uncle’s.Its distance from any other dwelling, the romanticscenery around it, and the gloomy walks along theAbbey ruins, accorded with my soul’s distress.—The old woman I retained as a servant, had livedsome time in the house before I bought it. I dei;posited the coffin lid and the scull, in my studyand from that moment the poor woman woulcnever enter the room.“ I flew for amusement to chemistry, electricity,,and anatomy, but grew tired of each. I in generalkept clbce at home all da}', and walked among theruins when others slept. Among a, few other me¬morandums of former bliss, I had reserved my dearEflinor’s harp—it had been her delight. Annexedto these memoirs you will find some pieces of poetrywn.ioh 1 composed at midnight in the Abbey : theyt elate to my dear Ellinor. Let this memorandum'sometimes claim a place in your thoughts. (It wasa miniature of Mental, done in bis youth; and howunlike his present appearance! George placed it:in his bosom, and resumed Mental’s narrative.)—Newspapers, and various publications, shewed methe bustling scenes of life, on which I gazed an un¬concerned spectator. Yet there was still one object-for whom my heart felt an interest: my daughteroften started to my memory, and pained me for herfate in such a world of treachery and woe. 1 heard!often from her governess, but could never bringmyself to her. The accounts I received were satis-23factory, till her eighteenth year, when a lettercame with tidings, that without any knowncause, she had eloped. A severe illness thatthreatened my dissolution, followed this intel¬ligence; every effort to discover her was un¬availing. Thus misery weighs down my de¬clining years; and I live in torturing doubtas to my child, my Ellinor. Last night I was| discovered by some peasants at my favouriteoccupation in the Abbey ruins. I will not bei a theme for babbling tongues ; I hare takenmy old domestic with me, and I quit this place,perhaps, for ever. Will you, then, pitya miserable old man, and commiserate his fateTalk of him as little as possible; but whenhis name is mentioned, do that justice to hisI memory, which these memoirs enable you.—Thy breast is pure, tny slumbers are sweet1may they ever be so.—Farewell.” Barnwell’suncle, mother, and the tender-hearted Eliza, towhom he communicated the melancholy tale, un-fl ited m commiserating the sufferings of a man,| whose life, almost from b;s infancy, had beeni marked with disappointment and sorrow.In a few days George quitted his uncle's1 hospitable roof, which still remained the. asylum: of his mother and Eliza. Sir names had giveni his nephew three thousand pounds, and a fur-thor seven thousand was to he given atthe expiration of the time for which he was ar-i tided, on condition of his being admitted intoa share of the concern. Mr Freeman, thei elder partner of the firm, resided wholly injl the" country with his lovely daughter, the ami-ji able Maria; he was a widower, and not being24blessed with this child, til! a late period of hisage she was the darling of his soul. He com¬mitted Jus affairs to the management oi liis^ twoipartners, Mr. Emery and Mr. Drudge. 1For the first time George entered the metror’polis. From the account he had received frotnlMental, of the meanness and avarice of traders,!he was not-a little surprised at the elegant an*|pearance of Mr. Emry s residence. His astonisMment increased, when upon his admission into th<fhall, he was surrounded by four or five stoutfellows m blue‘and silver liveries. The youth:was coni Wed, and felt some difficulty in persua||ing these gentlemen of the ceremonies to prociir(|ihim preaudience of Mr. Emery.Some months passed away unmarked by ^mjlevent of consequence. Mental fyrd not visitgJJhim, though George cohstaotly estpocted hunjBut it was his misfortune to fall in with a beaji|Sl.ful yisung wonrao, who went untler the nam^ ajMillwood, hut turned out to be Elljnor,fflHdaughter of Metotal, who pretended to be de^jlfin love with him. She got him advised tomuraJlIris uncle, and she, by the assistance of an Ita!i4l|called /elatti wall whom she fcrmerly ct»l;aA)itel|poisoned her father, tlrat they might obtain p<t:session of their riches.——For which they weiaU apprehended, George was tried, cpand 'executed. Millwood went distprison, broke a blood vessel in her idied ; and Zelotti poisoned himself.FINIS.4