GOSPEL MAGAZINE1I OCTOBER M. D C C. L X X I.I . 'I How way a Perfon be ajjured that his JffiiBionsare fanBified ? See.EDINBURGH:Printed in the Year M. D CC. L X X X III.f vQ_U E R Y in the Gofpel Magazine,How may a Per fan be ajjured that hit s4jfli ft ions'are fanfttfied f &c.THE afflidlions of the Lord’s people are un¬doubtedly always produdlive of fpiritual ad- .J vantage to their fouls; for the infpired Paul ex-j prefsly fays, “ We know that all things work to-1 “ gether for good to thofe whoiove God. and areI “ the called according to his purpofe.” There beingI no poiGbility for afflidions working in ordinary for| the prefent good of the body, or of temporal cir-j cuniltances, it mull follow, that the good for whichH they are faid to work is of a fpiritual nature, and re-t fers to the foul, though thefeeffeds which afflictions| produce are not always apprehended on a fudden.I On the contrary, the very good which they do the| believing foul is commonly matter of exquifite dif-| trers for a time, till the muddy waters being fomc-I what fettled, the child of forroto begins to fee theI duft of tl-te Redeemer’s feet in the cloud which latelyoverfpread his tabernacle ; for it ought always to beremembered, that the bridegroom pays molt of hisvifits to his betrothed in his cloudy chariot, fo thatwe are feldom fenfible of his prefence till he is gone,and the favour of his good ointments convinceth usof the identity of liis perfon ; but let the cloud be everfo gloomy and black, theafped of providence everfo threatening, it is morally impofflble, that the vi¬fits of Jefus.fliould do no good, let him alfume whatmode of appearance he will. His external appearan¬ces may vary, but his luearf is it ill the fame meltingheart of mercy and companion. But, as the Lorddoes viflt with afflidions, and as afflidions dulyfandified are a great blefling, how may a perfon beflu red that his aiflidlions are ianctified ? I might an-fwer, when he finds more love to God, more fub-miflion to the divine will, more patience in tribula¬tion, and more of a fpirit of prayer and fupplicationthan before, as is commonly anfwered in fuch a cafe.But I cannot perfuade myfelf, that this is the hap-pleft method of flrengthening the weak hands, andconfirming the feeble knees of God^ poor afRitfedchildren, feeing feme people may examine veryclofely, and yet be able to.apprehend nothing, butthe very contrary of thefe feelings ; and does ourdivine religion provide no ground of encouragementfor them ? yes verily ; and afflidions are certainlyfandified, when,jJ?, They draw forth our latent corruptions toview, which is frequently done, when, in reality, iwe cannot find more love to God, more humblefubmiffion to his will, more of a fpirit of prayer, andmore heart'inclination to fpiritual duties: Infeead-of love, the enmity of the carnal heart may bedii-covered ; inflead of humble fubmiffion to his will, .we may experience an impatient rebellious fpirir, jwhich we could hardly have believed ourfelves thefubjeds of, without this difagreeable experience, jThere thefe corruptions dwelt before, but lay con- ,cealed in the deep receffes of the foul, till the har- jrow of afflidion brought them to view ; “ what- ju feever doth make manifeft is light,” and all light jcqmeth from God the father of lights j hence feme jare afflided, and fee no more of their hearts thanbefore, becaufe the light of God’s Spirit never-ihone.at all into their hearts to bring them to view. ;But, in this cafe, the believet is apt to miftake the ]rcal’efFeds of afflidions for evils inftead of bleflings ; jwhen unbelief, impatience,-and carnal enmity, pride,and felf, are manifefted, he concludes that his heart15% got worfe inftead of better. By his afftidtionsyhe may be terrified at the difeovery he has of him-feif, and deem his awful feelings certain badges ofalienation from God ; whereas the truth is, the hearti is juft what it was before, enmity againft God ; butgrace has brought it more to light, and thereforethe advantage is greatly on the fide of the patient, asan hidden enemy is by far more dangerous than anopen one. Perhaps in the days of Job's firft pre-II fperity, it would have been difficult to perfuadehim, that he was'capable of* charging God withdealing cruelly by him ; but his affliclions irritatedthe enmity of his heart, and drew it forth in it’s| native oppofition to God. Had not this enmity[ been native in his heart, it had not, on this occa-I fion, been drawn forth : The pious man might have1 continued it’s fubjedt ignorantly, therefore it’s ma¬ll irifeftation was certainly to his advantage.I idly, Afflidlions are fandlified and for good,|j when they put our faith to the trial, that we may: feel how weak it is, and how fubjedt we are todoubt the mercy and goodnefs of a gracious God tous in the day of our calamity. It is not enoughthat we attain the knowledge of Chrift, as thekeeper of our perfonsj but God will make himknown as the keeper of our faith alfo : Whichknowledge is attamable only by faith being put tothe trial, without communicated affiftance for thatprefent time, that, by feeling it’s own infirmity andweaknefs, it may live upon its proper objedf, and, not upon itfelf: Hence, in the beginning of anyfevere afflidlion, the foul is fometimes left to itfelf,n its own ftrength, to ftruggle at once againft theHearns of afflicVion, unbelief, and rifing corruption,that the Lord may fhew unto us all that is in our> learts, It was to little purpofe Jefus told the zea-lous, vvcll-affe&ed Peter, “ that he had prayed“ for him, that his faith fliould not fail,” whilfthe thought himfelf capable of cleaving to him, evenunto death. Bat when he found himfelf capableof denying him, his foie confolation lay in theprayer of his Redeemer, “ that his faith Ihould not“ fail.” An untried profelfor is a very dubiouscharadfer, therefore God has very wifely joinedreligion with the crofs, and afflidions with faith;for faith cannot live in it’s exercife without it’s fightsand conflids. Now, where would be the trial, iffaith did always triumph oyer it’s opponents? Itwould blunt the edge of the enemy’s fword, andex’trad the bitternefs from afflidion; fo that, invery deed, the afflidion fuflained, would not anfwer ,the end propofed, as to'bring forth our unbelief to jopen light. The foundation of all faith and jftrength, vidories and triumphs, lies in felt weak-nefs. Jacob threfhes no mountains to powder, till tbe feels himfelf a worm ; and the moment he feelshimfelf reduced to that date of nothingnefs, hecommenceth a new threfliing inllrument, having jteeth. Samfon can never overthrow the houfe of :Dagon, till he himfelf, in his own per foil, is entire- ;ly in thf power of the Phililtines; but once totally ;deprived of pcrfonal excellency, he lays hold on•the power of Omnipotence, and works the deft rue-1tion of his enemies. Afflidions are the feiffars,which {hear away perfonal flrength, excellency,and fuppofed capacity for doing good, or with- ({landing the power of the Philifi'mcs in our own ;perfons. Whilft we can go out, and {hake ourfelves, *and break the withes with which our fins haveattempted* to bind us, we find! fmile at Delilah’s ‘web, and.afcribe the whole excellency to our owngraces,, ipitead of that grace which, is in Chrift.Butj| But, when our hair, in which lies all our perfonafi ftrength, is a&ually gone, and we feel ourfelves, inii reality, within the power of the enemy, withoutthe light of comfort, and incapable of delivering *K ourfelves, we {hall then look to the Lord alone,froml whom cometh our help; fo that our very weaknel'sI is the foundation of all gofpel ftrength and victory.I But weaknefs can never be felt, unlefs we are called •i to fuftain hardihips; and the strength of our faith,j hope, and charity,, is tried to the utmoft.i 3^//, Whenever afflictions lead their fubjeCtsIj into a further knowledge of their own wretched-| nefs, and total incapacity for either doing or bearingit, the will of God, without frefh communications fromj him, in whom it hath pleafed the Father that all| fulnefs fhould dwell, I mult conclude that they are;| fanCtified, and of real advantage. The leading de-J lign of the bleffed gofpel, is to bring us to live on1 the grace that is in Chriit, not on that which isI from him, and in ourfelves: We fflall never live up- 1| on the grace that is in Ghrift, till we are driven out•|| of ourfelves. There is nothing will drive us outI of ourfelves but foul-famine, a thorough fenfe of theplague and pollution of our nature, and a total help-leffnefs in ourfelves; nothing but afflictions in thehand of the Holy Ghoft, will give thefe difeoveries j. and wherever thefe difeoveries are made, and bywhat means foever they are made, it is clear that themeans have been owned and fanCtified ; fo thatgreat good is frequently received by afflictions. WhenI the foul, with refpeCl to comfort, may be faid tof walk in darknefs, and have no light, u Ephraim1“ fflall grow as the lily/'' the ftrength and fertilityof which lie all in the root. In winter the lilylofes all its beauty and fragrance, but nothing of it'sfertility and excellence, thofe are fafe in the root.The(' 8 )The believer grows downward into his root, (Chrift,)in the winter ftate of afflidtion, when his buds andbloffoms feem to be all beaten off by the bleak,winds and falling rains: Buried thus in the rootin winter, he flull yet fpring up in fummer, andthe good favour of the Redeemer’s ointments lhallbreath ambrofial fragrance all around him ; and whenonce he hath learned to glorify Chrilt, by livingentirely upon him, Chrift will glorify him withI the beauteous and ornamental fruits of thus be¬ll lieving. '4/^/y, As I would fain reach the cafe of the moftdiftrefled of Godrs afflufted children, as their bro¬ther and fellow in tribulation, and the kingdom of ;patience, I would obferve, that it hath been faid jaffli&ions are always fandtified, when they bring younearer to a throne of grace. It is certainly true :But will it follow, that thefe afllidlions, in which thefoul is quire overwhelmed, the enemy comes in as aflood, and be'ars down all before him, the reafoning ;powers of the mind not excepted, and in whichthe tongue cleaves to the roof of the mouth forihirft, are not to he reckoned fandlified afflidlions £Some know, if my reader does nor, that afflic- •tions may be fo complicated and fo intenfe, as toincapacitate the foul, for a feafon, for both prayerand praife,-and the party lhall yet emerge out of (them witli renewed flrength and luftre, like themorning fun; and lhall thofe afflidtions be deemed |judgements, or unfandlified alflidtions ? I know no tmedium betwixt judgements and unfihdMfied afflic¬tions ; and am inclined, therefore, to number this J:moll diflreffing of all cafes among fandlified afflic-| tions, which are to the believer’s advantage. (;<c When the poor and needy feek water, and find; i.u none, and their tongues cleave to the roof of their“ mouthf m mouth for thirft, I the Lord will hear them, Iip the God of Jacob will not forfake them.,’ This; ^evidently proves, that fuch afflictions are not to beFunderttood as judgements; for, in cafe of judge-iinents, God would not hear, and would certainly *tlforfake, contrary to that gracious declaration, “ IJu the Lord will hear them, even when they can-in not cry to me.” When the tongue of prayerfcleaves to the roof of their mouths, the Lord willjhear their wants and diftrclles. Thofe afflictionsjmuft need be falutary which Itir up our beloved tojeome to our affiftance. Moreover, there appears,fhc fame necefflty of our being taught our incapa-■icity for prayer as for believing, as the power and fpi-irit of both are equally from God, and folely de-,pendent on divine influences. But how fflall a.'^nan know this experimentally, without being leftin the greatefl: neceffity, fometimes incapable of thehtercifc of prayer? for a man who never felt an. ibfolute incapacity for prayer in the time of need,to confefs, u That we kno w not how to pray as‘ we ought; that we are not fufficient of ourfel-‘ ves to think any thing as of ourfelves, but our .‘ fufficiency is of God,” approaches too near tolypocrify, for God to allow it in his own children.Although bafl-ards and heathens may be fuffered to50 on with their vain unmeaning repetitions, it williot be fo with the children ; for the great Prophetjvill teach them their total incapacity for prayernd every thing that is good.. Whatfocver, therefore, brings us to a ftnfe of»ur own ignorance, folly, incapacity, fin, andvretchednefs; whatlbevcr tends to break every•ruifed reed, upon which we arc apt to lean, to•ull down every lying refuge, in which we are'rone to trull; whatfoever tends to raze everyfandy( 10 jTandy foundation of creature-dependence; in aword, whatfoever ungrafps our hold of every crea-ture-Jelight, empties us of all perfonal fufficiency, tand lays the foul low, helplefs, and hopelefs, at*the feet of the Redeemer, trufting alone in his free,',mercy, may, with the ftridteft propriety, be con-’fidered as fandfified, and to our advantage.Ephraim had his dark and cloudy days of be¬moaning himfelf amidft his reproach and lhame, whenGod became amoth in his fubltance, and a lion in ,his family, rending and tearing away his deareit de¬lights, lhattering his idols, and calling down all hisaltars to fin. But were not thefe inftances of the di-1vine condud towards him, moll evidently thefruits of God’s unalterable attachment to him, and{he greatell bleffings that could have poffibly befal¬len backfliding Ephraim ? BlelUngs, which opera- ited in Ephraim’s favour, even when he was, as yet,far from having the comfort of them. Blehingsr.all tending to bring him to that union of heart andaffedion with God defertbed in the fourteenth*chapter of liofea.Brlievers are apt to mi Hake in nothing more thanfthe effsds produced by their afflidions ; and if I am]not greatly miftaken, many divines have taken thejwrong method in defcribmg them. • I he ultimate!iffue of them mo ft undoubtedly is, “ the peaceable,“ fruits of righteoulhefs ” But their firft and im-Jmediate died is, to harrow up the foul, and bring the*weeds which grow there fecreily, and unfecn be-jfore, to the furface, to open view. The wife huf-jbundman thus harrows up the ikutch in fpring,which would'other wife fpoil his expeded crop ; a 1when he his fo done, he burns it with fire. Atfirft view, one would fuppofe, that the beauty of.the field is entirely ruined by this operation, yet itdfeduallyT*'effectually fecures both it’s beauty and fertility in!the end.There is a gracious promife made by Mofes toJfrael, which ought to be much regarded; “ and the“ Lord thy God will put out before thee all thefe“ thine enemies by little and little.” A promifewhich fets before us the whole work of God in ourfandtification ; the agency by which, and the man¬ner how the work is carried on.iMuch beauty lies in the promife, and this in par¬ticular, ‘ ‘ thine enemies fhall be put out before theethou fhalt fee thine enemies before they are put out jand as fure as ever they are brought to thy view asiienemies, the Lord thy God will put them out,though it may be by little and little.I God will bring all our inward enemies, everylurking Canaanite to light, before he puts them our,•Whatever pain the awful difcovcfSTmay give us ; ~Sor he ftudies our falvation and final poflcffion of the>romifed land, rather than our prefent inclinationmd pleafure : We would gladly enter into the land2At once to poffefs it, without fo much as feeing war ;put this is contrary to the purpofe of God. It is thei/ine purpofe, that the Canaanitifh lufts of the bu¬rn heart muft all be led to execution firft ; in or-r to which, they muft be drawn forth from theirrk and deep receffes, and brought before us, thate may bear witnefs againft them of the evils whiche have fuffered on their account, and by theircans. If a man is robbed on the high way, inder to bring the villain who robbed him to publicftice, he muft confront him before the judge,id fwear to the reality of the robbery, and identity: IL the perfon of the robber.But when our gracious Redeemer, by means of,;&ion, or otherwife, brings forth the abomina-, - ' X1 — } .cions of the heart to our view, how ihocking is the; difeovery, how dreadful our apprehenfions, as if wewere in danger of being left to their pow£r and doJminion, little knowing that they are fo many pri-* Toners in the hands of the officers of juftice, and fe-ftrained from doing us any real harm. A’certainlady being robbed, and barbaroufiy treated on thehigh way, the ruffian, who perpetrated the villainy,biing taken, was brought to his trial, and the ladyobliged to appear againll him in court. No foon-er had fhe let her eyes upon him, when brought tothe bar, but ffie fcreamhl out, as under the moftalarming apprehenfions of danger, and, with difficultty, could be brought to believe that the villain wasin fetters^ and wholly in the power of the officers ofthe king; itis even frequently fo with the poorbeliever ^pon afly particular difeovery of what is in*his heart of confidering that fin hated isfin pardoned, tfiarabominations loathed are abo¬minations clean fed, -hens apprehensive of the moft, lawful and tremendous confequences of -the dtfcove-.ry of his heart.r . Thefe things duly attended to, I am inclined■ think it will appear, that the Lord’s people are fre¬quently afraid, where there is no real .ground foifear, and that we receive good very often untjeithe difguife of evil, i Hull add nothing more nowbut e.arneftly pray, that a fympathizing Rcdeemeimay blefs thefe few remarks for the benefit of th<afflidted readerlF f N I s:.