THEIUf’E AND TRANSACTIONSOF — •Mrs. Jane Shore,Concubine to K.. Edward ^thiCOMTAINING ' 'An Account of her Parentage, Wit, and Beauty.Her Marriage with Mr. Shore. The King'sVifits to her, her going to Court, and iea?ingher Hufband- Her great Diftrcfs and Mdetyafter the King’s Death, &c.Printed by J Neilfoq,. 1816./THELIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOFMrs. JANE SHORE.RS. JANE SHORE was daughterto Mr. Thomas Wainftead, a citi¬zen of good repute, who lived in Cheap-fide, by trade a mercer. She being theonly child of her parents, was broughtup with all the care and tendernefs ima-ginable, not wanting any education thatwas proper for her; and her ‘naturaltemper, which was very airy, being joinedto her education, and that degree ofpride. whi«h, as it is natural, fome makeneceffary for the female fex, helped to fether off to the bell advantage. Firie fea¬thers always make fine birds ; and if thebirds are fine without them, doubtlefsthey make them doubly fo.3''‘- . >  Life and Transactions, &e.. This lovely woman was the delight ofSher father, who clothed her richly, a-Corning her with jewels; and, his tradehying among the court-ladies, he oftencarried her with him to feew her theioaftimes which were made frequentlydiere, to divert the queen, &c. whichi;;ave her an early longing after a greatergentility than flic had ever yet attained:o, or her city Jjreeding was fit to pro¬duce.I . J .When fire grew to the age of fifteen,:ter competent flock of beauty and gooditarriage, caufed many to fall in love withiter, and fome great lords fixed their■ryes upon her, to get her' for a miftrefs,dvhich her father perceiving, fent her toids fifler at Northampton, where fhe re¬mained about a year, till he fuppofed the,{inquiry after her was over, and that fhemight return without any hazard oft'ieing any further tempted to lewdnefs:)/et, flie was no fooner returned, than acdot was laid one night to have her car-'4 Life and Transactionsricd away by Lord .Haftings, who,, afterihe death of King Edward, took her forhis concubine, as will appear in the clofeof this hiftory. But, the maid he ha<Lbribed with gold to get her abroad, re¬penting of fuch. treachery.to her master,,gave timely notice, and fo prevented it.•Her father perceiving, that, unlefs he*took fome fpeedy couffe, her great ftockof beauty would be her ruin, refolved to?marry her, fo that having furrenderedt• her virginity, and being in the arms ofan hufband, thofe that fought to crop her :virgin rofe, would not regard her, butgive' over their purfuit.'JAnd, among thofe that courted, andsearneftly fought her, in way of marriage^was one Matthew Shore, a rich goidfmithiin Lombard-ftreet, whom her father pitch.*- ed upon as a fit hufband, and acquainted:his fair daughter with his intention to)v marry her to him, but fire appeared very;averfe to it, alleging fometimes difprepor-I of Mrs* fane Shore.tion of years, he .being above thirty;i at other times, his being disfigured withI the fmall pox, and many other exceptionsI (lie made.' However, her father’s pofitive| commands, and the rich prefents her loverI made her, won her confent, or feeraingiy! flie yielded to the match, and fo marriedthey were in great pomp j many of thei court, as well as the city, being invitedto the wedding, which was kept withgreat feafting, many days.- * ’ •The wedding being over, and the bride¬groom having enjoyed his charmingrbride,grew exceedingly fond of her, even todottage, which fickened and palled herlove toward him, and he perceiving it,firove to wind himfelf the more into heraffections ; and to this' end he clothed hervery Richly, and adorned her with jewels,denying her nothing fire defired, or thathe thought would tend to her fatisfactionor delight.ft wTas not long before Lord Haftfngs6 Life and Transactionsheard thq unwelcome tidings, that hisfaireft Jane was married; which, however,did not make him give over his purpofe •of enjoying her fair body ; fo that oftenhe reforted to fee her, treating her athome, and herhufband abroad; often in¬viting them both to court; and took hisopportunities to pour out many amorousdifeourfes, endeavouring by all means, to ‘make her defile the marriage-bed. And onetime, intending to try his utmofi: efforts,he threw her on a bed when they were3lone; but £he got from him, and ran toher hufband, telling him plainly how rudeLord Haftings had been ; which angeringShore, he modeftly rebuked him, and for¬bade him his houfe, which made him goaway in great heat, but fefolving to berevenged.This Lord, being Chamberlain to K. Ed¬ward the IV. having frequently his ear;and, finding he was much inclined to finewomen,, though he was married to LadyElizabe th Grey, took an opportunity to*•>** ■cj Mrs. Jans Shore. 7l;ll him of Jane Shore’s beauty, extohinger wit above her features, which madee King hearken to this new adventure,>(nd he refolved to go to Shore’s fhop iniilifguife to fee her.:The King, whofe thoughts flill ran onis intended Miftrefs, delayed not long toay her a vifit j and in order to it, attiredimlelf like a merchant, and withdrew•{privately from court, being only attended(by his page: And coming into Shore’silCiop,then the richeft in alLLombard-ftreet,5ihe found the good man employed in bisnbulinefs ; and, waiting till he was a littleJ/at leifure, he defired to fee fome plate,wwhich being Ihewn him, he, under a pre¬sence of carrying it beyond fca, foon a-greed for a confiderable quantity : But yetno wife appeared, which made him delaythe time with difcourfe, of what was thentranfacting in England and places abroad,where he faid he had travelled.This delighted Shore mightily, fo that8 Liffi and Transactions.lie ordered his man to fetch up a bottle oftwine, and they drank merriiy, the good',rnan beginning with a health to the King;|,which the King pledged him in. So whenfome other healths had paffed, the King aik-t.ed, if there was not a miftrefs to fo fairia-houfe ? otherwife, he could help him to La wife, rich, young and beautiful.flFor this offer. Shore thanked him, buttold him, he was already married to fuch i' a one as he defcribed,whom be toved en-ltirely. 1 his difcourfe made the King moredefirous to tee her ere he departed, and ialked if he could not have a fight of |her. Shore, little thinking what was in- (tended for his ruin, and proud of his iwife’s beauty, foon yielded to his requeft,- jand ordered her to be called* down, whocame attired in a Iky-colourcd morninggown, flowered with gold, embroideredwith pearls and fpangles, her head attiredwith curious lace, under which, her hairflowed wantonly, and her bluflies madehpr appear ftill more beautiful*90/ Mrs. Jane Shore.ijj The King no fooner faw her, bi|t}|e liepped forth and ihlnted her coralIips, imprefung on them many balmyhffes. \ hen fhe, by her hufband’s de-ire, fat down, ^nd the King drank toier, Cie pledged him, and pafl’ed it toser r.ulband, i'hen much difcQurf? en-51'ued, in which fhe appeared fo witl/jri^hat the Kibg refolved to have her at anytfate,andfo prefented her with Sfome curiousthings. He paid for his plate, which the%©od man would have fent home, but hemrefufed it, ordering his page to carry it $fund with many kifles, he took leave ofifche charming fair one for that time.The king had no fooner departed, butfc|Jane alked hef hufband, Whp that gentle-liman was, tint had been fo liberal tosifier ? he told her, he faid he was anmerchant, but he knew him not. Ah lifaid fhe, I rather take him for fomeiLord in difguife; therefore, dear huf-siband, if he fhould come again, tell him.that I an. lick, or any thing you canil feirrn to difaunoint him»to Life and. Transactions4c \* -• V . M,Mr. S|iore \ras greatly pleafed at herconduct, and more difcourfe had paffed,but people coming into the ftiop about .buunefs, 2te retired.. ' 1The King foon arrived at court,.wherehe had been miffed by his nobles, foonchanged his apparel, and came amcngftthem with a very chearful countenance, |and though others were ignorant, llaft-ings well perceived where he had been,and the fatisfaetion he had received, and■sv ' ' 'no fooncr were they in private, but theKing fatd, well Haftings, thou haft verygood judgement in fine women; I haveseen Shore’s wife, and (lie excels..thepraifes you gave her; I like her well, andrauft cniov her, but how muff i bring .it about ? to court her in her huiband’s iprefence, as a private perfon, 1 fliall beferved as you was j and to do it as aKing, will look too low for me 1 will ,not force her from his arms, for thatwi>uld caufe a murmuring among myfubjects, who would fear the like by theirH.I ‘Of Mrs. Jane Shore. 11v wives and daughters; but I mull haveher, and with her own confent.Haftings foiling, immediately faid, takei no care, for this fhall be eafy to your Ma-<i jefty : there is one Mrs. Blague, your lace-v woman, has a houfe near Shore's, and isr very intimate with his wife. This Womani is very fond of money, to fuch a degree,S that money would make her do any thing.I Her will I engage to do this matter, andf truft me fire will bring it to pa& to yourf fatisfaction. The King liked this device,t and it was agreed that he fhould fee here at this Mrs. Blaugc’s, and have freedomlo court her, but fhe fhould not knowt that he was the king, till he thought pre-{ per to have it difeovered.Lord Haftings was not idle in promot- il ing his matter's happinefs, but, with giftsf: and large promifes, foon made the lace-i’ woman pliable, fo that many meetingsf were made at her houfe, the King con mgl in difguife as her friend ; and, though*12 .Life and Tran((lcthns-Mrs. Blague often left them alone, andthe King courted her with allJiis rhetoric,yet Ihe appeared averfe to his love, andoften blamed him fharply for perfuadingher to defile heV hufband's bed} and then.fhe would chide Mrs. Blague for fufFeringfuch a rude man to come to her houfe,telling her the defign he had on her chaf.tity } {he fee mod very furprifed at it, butentreated her to be at cafe, for fhe wouldnot fuffer him to come there again anysnore.-This pacified her, but the plot was ftiildeeper laid for her ruin, and at Chriflmastime fhe got leave of Mr. Shore for illswife to acconapany her to the Court, tofee the ball there, to which he confentedwith fome unwillingnefs : And foon afterfhe was introduced, a man of very come¬ly port entered, with a malk on} and Mrs.Shore heard the ladies whifper, That's theKing; who looking round through hisardk; fixed his eyes upon her, and imme¬diately itepping to her feat, took her outOf Mrs. fane Shore. 13t<j dance along with him. At this fheblufhed, but riot to be unmannerly, fhecomplied; and the dance being ended, hetook herito a Angle light, and pulling offhis malk to falute her, fhe perceived itwas the fame man whom fhe had feen ather own fhop, and at Mrs. Blague’s houfejand putting a letter into her hand, he re¬tired. She then coming to Mrs. Blagu^defired to go home; to this fhe confented,and then read the letter, which was tothis purpofe:<c My Lovely fane,t: four beauty has enthralled my heart.iX *Tis a Kififc fixes ; you •will be hind to him,cl and, by a line, tell him fo to his comfort*'When fhe read this letter, (he left Mrs.Blague abruptly, judging fhe had a handin the matter.All this night the fair Jane was refllefs:her hufband enquired the caufe, but could14 Life and Transactionsnot learn it. As foon as {he got up, Ihtwent to Mrs. Blague, to confult what fherouft do in this ftra4t, well knowing t*heKing’s humour.Mrs. Blague, feeing her thus pen five,,{aid. “ Come, /ny dear, you muft not he“ coy, nor deny the King’s requeft. You“ will glitter fo near a throne, and enjoy“ a gallant bed-feliow. 1 find he is refol-“ ved to have you for a miftrefs, and“ therefore it is heft for you willingly“ fubmit to him.”At this difcourfe fhe trembled, yet con-fidering, from the many attempts herbeauty had caufed, that it was not madeto be enjoyed by one, in a fatal hour {heconfented; and inftead of writing an an-fwer to the King’s letter, it was agreedthat very night {he {hould take her appa¬rel, and put herfelf into the hands of theKing. This being concluded, Mrs. Blaguefient the King notice, who fent a chariotfor them $ and in the mean time her©f Mrs. Jane Shore. - 15clothes were conveyed away to Mrs.Blague’s. However, Ihe fupped with herhufband, when on a fudden fomebodycame on a feigned errand, and faid, hermother was taken ill, and^defired to fpeakwith her. He would have gone with her,but file put it off; and giving him thelaft kifs he ever was to receive from her,fee left him, and coming where the cha¬riot flood ready, fee. and Mrs. Blague gotinto it, and were conveyed to the King’sfecret apartment, y/hcre they found himin his elefet. He welcomed them, but itbeing late,' Mrs. Blague departed, andthey went to bed.Mr. Shore fitting up late, and his wifenot returning, was very much troubled,and went to his mother-in-law’s, but theyhad not feen her, nor was her mother ill,fo that her abfence troubled the whole fa¬mily. The next day was <pent in feekingfor her amongflher relations and friends,but found her not. Mrs. Blague proteft-ed fee had not feen her, and dropped16 _ Life and Transactionsfome diffembling tears, fo that her huf-band was almoft diftracled, and at lailconcluded, that fhe was taken av/ay byfome courtier; and, in three days after, alady informed them that flie was with theKing. This added more to their grief jthey knew not what courfe to take; andthey knew if they went to crofs the Kingit would be their ruin,“They made inquiry, indeed, if it .washer voluntary ad, and finding it was, an^lfhe quite unwilling to leave her new lover,they left all hope of recovering her, fothat Mr. Shore growing" tftehnCh&yT'ioldoft’all he had, and went abroad ; buthaving fpent his fortune; he returned in ^a poor condition, and pricfifed dippingand filing gold coin to maintain himfelf;for which he fuffered death in the latterend of K. Henry VIll.’s reign,Jane Shore having rendered up herchaftity to the King, pleafed with the glit¬tering of a court, and endeared by a mo-Of Mrs. Jane Shore. 17uarch’s love, was adn>ired by the vulgar,towards whom Ihe behaved in a moft cour¬teous manner.Her power was fo great with the J^ing,that when his courtiers durft not inter¬cede for the poor and miferable that layunder his difpleafure, (he, with her. wit,would fo abate his anger, that ihe favedthe lives of very many, both poor, andrich. And though (he couki in a mannerdo all with him. yet it was never knowndie ufed her influence to the prejudice o£any. And both in London, and the pro-grefles flie made in the country, (hewould caufe poor people to be fought for,and relieve their neceffities, inducing andperfuading others, who expelled any goodoffices from the King by her means, to dothe fame, never felling her favours; andby her ready wit, (he fo baffled the courtladies, who envied her afpiring, that theyfound themfelves unable to repartee. Andthough the King had another miftrefs be¬fore her, namely Lady Bcffy, yet he pre-18 Life and Tr&nsaflionsferred our heroine much above her, andwould often merrily lay, I have two mif-treffes, of quite different tempers, one themoft religious, and the other the merrieftin England: and indeed Hie was had ingreat favour all the reign of the King,having crowds of petitioners waiting ather chamber door, or at the chariot fide,when'(he was to ride abroad, whofe fuits,to the utmoft of her power, fhe preferred.As for Mrs. Blague, who leaft deferved ofher, fhe procured of the King a (latelyhoufe and manor, worth 28-0/. a year.The Romifh priefts much fpited her, be-caufe foe fheltered many from their rageand fury, after they had burned JohnHufs for an heretic.As no wordly pomp nor greatnefs isof long continuance, fo now her glorywas ended, and her days of inexpreffiblcmifery began ; for, the King dying atWeftminfter, in the fortieth year of hisreign, no fooner was he buried in the cha¬pel of his own founding, at Windfor, butOf Mrs. Jane Share. 19Crook-backed Richard his brother, whamurdered Henry VL and Prince Henryhis fon, afpiring to the throne, thoughEdward had left two fons behind him,viz. Edward and Richard, and feveraldaughters, all lawfully begotten with theQueen, he quarrelled with Lord Haftings,(who after the death of the King had ta¬ken Jane Shore for his concubine, as nowfree; becaufe he would not aflift him inhis wicked project, of making away withhis two nephews, whom he afterwardscaufed to be murdered in Lie Tower, al¬leging that the Queen and Shore’s wifehad bewitched him, (hewing his witheredarm, which all knew had been fo from hiscradle; and, that lord thinking to excufethem, faid, “ If they had done fo, theyought to be punifhed ** Richard furious¬ly replied, “ Thou traitor, doft thou ferveme with ifs ? 1 fay, it is a truth very wellknown to thee, that they have done fotand that I will make good on thy bodyj.wherefore I arreft thee, Lord Haftings, forhigh treafon.” And, foon after, he caufedhis head to be cut off in the Tower#20 Life and TrinsafltofnJane Shore had no fooner notice of thedeath of Lord Haftings, her paramour, *but flic perceived a ftorm was falling onher own head, therefore flie thought itneceffary to provide in time, and fo fhecarried her jewels to her old confident,Mrs. Blague, entreating her to concealthem for her; but (he,, like a faithlefswoman, when Jane came and alked forthem, not only denied them, but when, inthe greateft need, (he came to crave almsof her, (he thruft her out of doors,. ^threatening to have her whipped for herimpudence. . /Richard, by means aforefaid, havinggot to the crown, and to make himfelffeem fair by others fins, though he was amonfter by nature, publjcly declaring hismother to be a whore, his brother and hischildren to be baftards; caufed his Queento be poifoned, and would have weddedhis niece. He ordered our Jane Shore tobe apprehended, (tripped of all (he had,and ao pennance, by feveral times walk¬ing in a white (heet, and then walk bare-Of Mrs. Jans . Shore. 2!*# ;footed and bare-headed in-her ftiift before. the procefllon, with a crofs and wax taperin her hand, through Cheapfide, whichfile did, looking fo lovely in her biulhes,that many one pitied her; he alfo ftrip-ped ail her friends and relations of what¬ever they had, pretending they had gotit all by her means from the Crown inKing Edward’s reign; which, with thedifgrace their only daughter was falleninto, caufed her parents' death.Richard, rot content with this, put outa fevere proclamation to this efFe<& : Thaton the pain of death and confifcation oPgoods, no one fhould harbour her in their- houfes, nor relieve her with food or rai¬ment.- So that fixe went wandering upand down to find her food upon thebullies, and on the dunghills, where fomefriends fhe had raifed would throw boneswdth more meat than ordiuary, and cruftsof ftale bread, in the places where {hegenerally haunted. And a baker, whohad been condemned to die for a riot in22 Life and Transaflion:King Edward’s reign, and faved by hermeans, as he faw her pafs along, in grati¬tude for her kindnefs, would trundle apenny loaf after her, which ffie thankful¬ly received, and blefled him with tears inher eyes; but fome malicious neighbourinforming againft him, he was taken upand hanged for difobeying King Richard’sproclamation, which fo terrified others,that they durft not relieve her with anything; fo that, in miferable rags, almoftnaked, Ihe went about a moil (hockingfpe&acle, wringing her hands, and be¬moaning her unhappy fate.Thus (he continued till the battleof Bofworth-field, where Richard was{lain by Henry Earhof Richmond, whofucceeded him by the name of Henry theVII.; in which reign (he hoped for betterdays; but fortune raifed her another ad-verfary, for he married Elizabeth, eldeftdaughter of Edward IV. and King Ed¬ward’s Queen, who mortally hafed her,then bearing a great fwsy, aantherpro-Of Mrs, Jane Shore. 23clarr.ation was iffued to the fame effed;and fo ftie wandered up and down, in aspoor and miferable a condition as before,till growing old, and utterly friendlefs,flue liniflied her life in a ditch, which wasfrom thence called Shore's Ditch, adjoin-ing Bifliopfgate-ftfeet.Thus you may fee the rife and fall ofthis once (lately, and then .unhappy wo¬man, with whofe dying lamentation I (halltpnclude.The Dying Lamentation ofMRS. JANE SHORE.Good r fapUyTHOUGH, by the rigour of the lawyou are forbidden to give me anyrelief, yet you may pity my unhappy(late, for the Scripture (aith. That to themiferable pity Jhouid be fhewn. I am howputting a period to a miferabie life) a lifethat 1 have been long weary of. Norwould I defire to live in the fplendour,pomp, and glory of Edward’s court. No,I am happier now on the dung-hill, than24 Life and Transafliens, £sV.ever I was in his arms. For, oh ! k wasan adulterous bed indeed. Oh wretch!that King Edward! that ever I was be-trayeciirhy him! What floods of forrowhave my fins occafioned? Oh! learn fromme, good people, to beware of vain de-'■4 " * > /lights; though they promife fair, theyleave bitter flings behind them. Alas!you know my punifiiment is grievous inthis world, and fo ips, for I have endureda thoufand deaths in one; but now, mydying moments are come, 1 rejoice. Sin¬cere repentance has fecured my happinefsabove. But O, where repentance is notgiven, what feas of torment rack the foul!'O happy dung-hill, how do 1 embracethee! From thee my pardoned foul fhallfoar to heaven, though here I leave thisfilthy cat cafe.O that the name of Shore may be anantidote, to flop the poifonous and foulcontagion of raging luft for ever.FINIS. ‘ •J^Ncilfon, priiftth '