theBISTORTEGYPT,WITH AN ACCOUNT OF ITS! Invafion by the French,i Their Principal Operations there,AND THE LATEjjifpatclies from Sir Ralph Abercrombie,and General Hutchinfon,Containing a Detail ofThe Defeat of the French,UNDER THE COMMAND OFGenerals Bonaparte and Kleber,TOGETHER. WITHTheir Defeat and TxpuHion,UNDER GENERAL MENOU.STIRLING:I PRINTED AND SOLD BY C, RANDALL*,18.01.HISTORYo FEGYPT.CHAP.jr T is generally agreed, that the princes of the line?  of the Pharaoh’s fat on the throne of Eeypt in an un-j interrupted fucceffion, till Camhyfes (I king of Perfia#conquered the Egyptians, 520 years before the birth of -Chrilt and that in the reign of thefe princes, thole wonljiderful ftruftures, the pyramids, were railed, which cannoljybe viewed without afionidiment, Egvpt continued a par#of the Perlian empire, till Alexander the Great vanquilhei Darius, when it fell under the dominion of that princtwho foon after built the celebrated city of Alexandria!The conquefts of Alexander, who died in the prime of lifebeing feized upon by his generds, the province of Egyp; fell to the lhare of Ptoh my, by fome luppoftd to have beeia half-brother of Alexander, when it again became an inii dependent kingdom, about 300 yea s before Chrilt. Hifli;fucceflbrs, who lometimes extended their dominion ovet||:great part of Syria, ever after retained the name of Ptoletmits, and in that line Egypt continued between two ami-three hundred years, till the famous Cleopatra, the wife !and lifter of Ptolemy Dionylius, the !aft king,afcended the,1'throne. After the death of Cleopatra, who had been mintrefs fiifteffively to J t'ius Caefar and Mark Anthony,Egypt b ^inie a Roman provinte, and thus remained tdfthe reign of Omar, the le.cond calif of the (ucceffors olMahomet, who ' Xot . d the Romans, after it had been iif the r Jvands 700 years fhe famous library of Alexand¬ria, {aid to cone!ft of 700 oeo volumes, was coilefted b]: Ptolemy Pliiiad- lphus, ton of the firft Ptolemy; and tj fame prince caufed the Old Teftarmr.t to be traiiflated|■ into Creek : tnis tranflation is known by thename of tbq' beptuagint About the time of the cru'a tes, betweei| the years 1150 and 1 it;©, Egypt was governed by Noireedin, whole Ion, the famous Saladine, was fo dreadfulto the CPrittian adveutu'ers, and retook from them Jeru-; falem. He inftituted the military corps of MamloukS,iwiio, about th« year 1242!, advanced one of their ownI * ){lli,t^eik, own body Egypt, for fome time, made a figure«er thofe illultrious ufurpers and made a noble ftandnft the prevailing power of the Turks till under Selim,gib, after giving the Mamlouks fevi ral bloody defeatsciked:Egypt to i;s prefent flute of fubjettion.labile Selim was fettling the government of Egypt,it numbers of the ancient inhabitants withdrew intoclef: rr and plains, under one Zmganeus, from whenceattacked the ci ies an-1 villages of the Nile, end.iered whatever fell in their way Selim and hisers perceiving that it would be a matter of great dif-i jty to extirpate thofe marauders, left them at libertyiuit the country, which they did in great numbers, andr pod; rity h known ail over Europe and Alia, by thee of Gypfiesin attempt was made a few years fince to deprive theman Porte of its authority over Ep,ypt, by Ali Bey,fe father was n priell of the Greek church. Ali havinged Mahometan, and being a man of abilities and ad-is, rendered himfelf extremely popular in Egypt. A.I accufation having been made againft him to theihd S;gnior his head was ordered to be fent to Con-jtinopds; but being - pprtfe J of the defign, he feized andi;to death the meiier.gers who brought this order, andii. found means to put himfclf at the head of an army.»g alfo alliltcd by the dangerous fituation to which theijkiih empire svas reduced, in confequence of the warRulha, he baldly mounted the throne of the ancientins of Egypt Bu: not content wit,h the kingdom ofbt, he alio laid claim to Syria, Paleftine, and thatof Arabia., which had bdonged to the anclent fultans.de he was engaged in .thele great enterprizes, hetot lefs attentive to the eftab'ifhbig of a regular formiverment, and of introducing order into a countryhad been long the feat of anarchy and confulion.views were equally extended to commerce ; for:h purpofe he gave great encouragement to the Chrif.traders, and took off fome fhameful reftraints and.pities, to which they werelubjefted unhat barbarousitry. He alfo wrote a letter to the repiibhc of Venice,.he greateft p. Ms(A )teflion Tlve condaft and views of Ali Bey fliewfd atem of thought and ability, that indicated nothing of tlbarbarian, and helboke a mind equal to the founding Jan empire •, but he w is not finally lucceliful. He affumathe titles and ftate of the ancient lb tans of Egypt, anlwas ably (upported by Sheik D.ihcr, and fotne oth< r Atallbian-prinefs, who warmly efpoufed his interefis He alflfjfucceeded in almoft ; 11 hr? enterpriles againft the neigli,bouring Atiatic governors and ba<has, whom he rep ai iediy defeated ; but he was afterwards- deprived of thjjk'nigdom of Egvpt; by the bafe and ungrateful cohduft il,hU brother-in-law Mahomed Bey Abud-djap, his treo*:being totally defeated on the 7th of March 1773was ailo himleif pounded an^l taken prifoner ; and dyi™,of his^ wounds, was buried honourably at Grand Carol}Abudalup aherwards governed Egypt as Shtik Beliefi,and mached into Pdettine to fubdue Sheik Daher Aftter behaving with great ciudty to the inhabitants of dmplaces he took, he was found dead in his bed one mornin|Lat Acre, (uppdiet! to b. ft; angled Sheik Daher accept®;the Eoite’s fuil an f.-fty, and tru ing to their airnranc*.ernbraced the c:pt in paiba’s invitation to dine on beam,Lis fiiip, vt hen the cap ain produced his orders, and thfbrsve Daher, Mi Bey’s ally, had his head cut off in th<l25th year of his age ■- . I,,Fronj ti’at time Egypt has been tern by a civil waibetween tfie adherents of ,<Mi,'and other beys or prince*.}who-rofe on his ruin'. Uf thtfe the p-iucipal are Mormand ybrahim, who having driven their enemies into bajnilhmeryt, beg'^n to qu trrel among themielves- Alt rnately eapclled from Cairo, they fi: ally agree.: to a corn.!promile, March, jySjt. brent this time nwth.ng of inifportance occurs tiU the late invafipn of Egvpt by tfiFrench : whpfe views in this expedition have ternvariously rcp.refenttci ; in one of the letters from B<}|nrpa: te’s army lately punlifhed, a very plaufible and p;patently true ohj^fl t? ftated as the mot tee of this txpeJi.lion. 1 To indemn.ify herfetf for the lyfs .of her. colonjysj(fay's the writer; France tr rned her attention tovyard* ligypt and Syria ; countries which by their climate snd ft®ijiitv are cauable of being made the fton. houfe of Fraudm< 5 )It Is cei tain, that by friz mg and organizing thefe[untries, we fhall be emllledto extend our views ftill fatv, to a«nihi!a;e, by degrees, the EnglUb Ealt-India|f)c, enter into it vtith advantage durfelves, and finallyour hands, the whole commerce of Africa andWe d al! now g've an account of Bonaparte’s ex-■ ' (dition, and the occurrences fioce that thne.iln the month of May. i ypg, Bonaparte, having col-:: ited th flower of his army t Toulon, and being joined12,0.0 men from Genoa, and as many from Civitai sechia. making in ail above 40,000 hnd forces, he fet fail,fating all Europe in auxi us doubt and uncertainty &■».1 jinil what country furh a dreadful plague was fent.After touchin,.' at Malta, and pefFeffing himfelf of it,proceeded on to Alexandria, where he arrived in July,d landing. 2000 u-en he eafi’y carried it by llorm. The jher ftrenrtl s if Egypt were reduced, but with greater '|Ks and d:fii;uly from the want of nec^ fhries, than from tiy refifUnce which the inhabitants could make, who [■: fere ad equally hoitile to him, and zealous in retarding t' ** pi'ngrefs In a fltOrt time the ranks of hi; army were .I thinned, that d if content and duafle&ton became evi-111 |nt, which were freely exprefled by clamorous execra^-)ns againft the framers of the expeditionThe firft of Auguft fu' k them in defpair on the onemd th^y f.tw in the deftnuSHon cf their fleet the poflibi-f'ly of thtir return cut offj and on theother, the inhabi-Lis were io exafperated by the cruelties exercifed on.;tem, that w!>enever a French foldier .wandered from the*Uin body, if met by any gf the natives he was killed. J\ Admiral Nekon having, been detached from Lord St.^nincem with a fleet to watch the motions of Bonaparte,iAiled vlireft for Alexandria, which place he reached before iKe French rieet and immediately returned,to Syracufe^,1there having refrefked his fleet, and obtained certain in- :Urination of his enemies, he proceeded again to Egypt,''nd found their fleet at anchor in Aboukir Bay. 1''The admiral made the lignal to prepare for battle, and,tat it was his intention to attack the enemy’s van and!mere as they lay at anchor, and according to the plandore cievoioped. iiis idea, in this difpoiltion of his forcedurc the victor y^nd tire a to»»up;llK^Saafiheir;dm,s oft•VC of Lr- < <5 )ofit, as clrcumftances might- ^eravt. A bower cab’e Mi*:each fhip was immediately got out abaft, and bent fort•ward The Britilh continued carrying fail and ftandiAin for the enemy’s fleet in a clofe line of battle As a|Lthe officers of the fquadron were totally unacquainted,, with Aboukr Bay, each (hip kept founding as fhe flood ir».The enemy appeared to be mo; red in a flreng and ccmj-pa£l: line of battle, clofe'in with the (here, their line c'e*hi icribing an obtufe angle in its form, flanked by numeroA,gun-boats, 4 frigates, and a battery of guns a d mortar)i i©n an ifland in their van fills fituation of the enemS}feemedto fecure to them the moft decided advanthey had nothing to attend to but their artillery, in thei|fuperior Ikill in the ufe of which the French fo much pridthemfelves, and to which indeed their fplendid feries iland viflories was in general chiefly to be imputedpofition of the enemy prelected the moft formidab'l.iiacles ; but the Admiral viewed thefe with the eyefeaman determined on attack ; and it inftantly flruck hisjragar and penetrating mind, that where there was rocintj.for an enemy’s fliip to fwing, there was room for one iours to anchor No further fignal was peceflary thinitkofe which had already been made. The Admiral’s deltffigns were as fully known to his own fquadron, as was hj|Ldetermination to conquer, or perifli in the attempt. fhe"Goliah and Zealous had the honour to lead inline, and to |receive the fit ft fire from the van fli ps of the enemy, as:well as from the batteries and gun-boats with which their ,van was ftrengthened. Ihefe two fhips, with the Orion®,Audacious, and Thefcus, took their liations ii.fide the ene«Lpay’s line, and were immediately in clofe atftion. fhe|L.Vanguard anchored the firft on the outer-fide of the eneJLmy, and was oppofed within half piftol Ihot to Le Sparti- .ate, the third in the enemy’s line In Handing in, oumleading fitips were unavoidably cbfged to receive intautheir bows the whole fire of the broad.fides of the French jline, until they could take their refpeftive ftations j and it |1 is but juftice to obferve, that the enemy received us withygreat firmnefs and deliberation, no colours having beenhoifted on either fide, nor a gun fired, till our van fhipsvwere within half gun fhot. At this time the necefTaryl^number of ot»r men were employed aloft in furling fads*( 7 )f>d on deck, in hauling the braces, &c preparatory to ourjpfting anchor As foan as this took place, a moft ani- ;'|»ated fire was opened from th^ Vanguard, which (hip,\ered the approach of th 'fe in the rear, which werepflowinv in a clofe line. Che Minataur, Defence ’iel-:rophon. M jeftic Swiftfure, and Alexander, came up in.■ccelfion, an i, p ifitng witliin h il of the Vanguard, tookpe’r retpeftive nations oppofite to the enemy’s line. All sjtr fhips anchcjed by the ftern, by which means the Brh-;l^h line became inverted from van to rear. Captain.Ihomfon, of the Lrander, of 50 guns, with a degree of ,fidgment highly honourable to his profeffional characler,!Ilvanced towards the enemy’s line on the ouifide, and(oft iudicioufly dropped his anchor athwart haufe of Lefanklin, raking her with great fuccefs, the (hot from thejcandor’s broadfi e which palFed that (hip all ftrikingj.*;’Orient,, the flag flbip of the French Commander in Chief. ,i ’he aflion commenced at funfet with an ardour and vi-|mr which it is impoffible to defcribe. At about 7 o’clock!«tal darkneis had come on but the whole hcmifpbere was,11 ( intervals illuminated with the fire of the hoftile fleets.!’Cr (hips, when dai^knefs came on, had all hoifted their1ifftinguilhing lights, by a fignal from the Admiral. Thetan ftiip of the enemy, Le Guerritr wa- difmafted in lefsl»an 12 minutes; and in 10 minfites after the fecond fhip,;Hie Conquerant and the third Le Sparriate. very nearly atrike fame moment, were alio difmafted. L’Aquilon andf)c Souverain Peup!e, the fourth and fifth ftiip^ of thef1 kerny’s line, were taker poffeflion of by tire Britiih at half ";lift eight in the evening Captain Berry, at that hour,'*lent Lieut nant Gal wav, of the Vanguard, with a partyf; marines, 10 take poflefiion of Le Spar date, and that of-dier returned by the boat the French cap ajn’s fword,;tliich captain Berry immediately delivered to the Ad-1* lira I, who was then below, in confequmce of the feverejbutr-und which he had received in the head during the heatilr■ * the attack At this time it appeared that victory hadSHready declared itfelf in our favour ; for, although L’CM  ‘J< 8 )vas obferved on board L’Orient, which increafed with'{great rapidity, prefently involving the w'hole of the iafter part in flames. The light thrown by the fire? tof L’Orient upon the furrounding objedfs, enabled the •Brithh to percieve with more certainty, the fituation of ,the two fleets, the colours of both being clearly diftingmifti table. The cannonading was partially k: pt up to the lee^ t[-ward of the centre till about to o’clock, when the L’Ori* fcnt blew up with a moft .tremendous explofion Au aw. :]:ful paufe, and fiance for,about thtee minutes fucceededi twhen the wreck of the mafts and yards, which h id been tfficarriad to^ vaft height, fell down into the water and on rboard the furroundmg Ihips, After this awf^l fcene the ifirjing recommenced with the fhips to tlte' leeward of th«i I;.centre, tiil 20 minutes paft 10; when there was a total fiipeiTation of firing for about 10 minutes, aft*? which its twas revived till about 3 in the morning, when it agaiaceafed, and the whole fleet except two lliips remained in t(pofleflion of the Brjtilh.During the remaimter of this year, Bpnaparte enn t^ployed himftlf in endeavouring to tranquihze the country^ i>.and reduce it to obedience. j }In the fpring of 1799. he collefted the whole of tharroops that could be fparecl from garrifoning Egypt,amounting now only to 13,009, and proceeded to Syria,; yntending as was generally believed, to proceed by it, re^ |:.• rruiting his army by the difaffefted in the countries he^ j| fpafied through, and to attempt Conflantinople. HowJ f:ver, here his progrefs met an effe£lual check. After paf- If]| Ing the delert, and "taking Gaza and Jaffa, at which laft fc.1 place three days after it had capitulated, Bonaparte |■ :aufed the whole of the Turkiih garrifon to be put tc» (j] Jeath. tACRE, anciently called Ptolemais, a fmall lea-ports *; Town in Syria, without any regular fortifications, or ark j,| illery, depending folely on the genius, (kill, peril vering; ,1 ntrepidity and unfhaken bravery of Sir kidney Smith anj !,1! he handful of brave feamen under his command, arreileil' fllBonaparte’s progress, baffled his endeavours, and lent ,Inim back to Egypt, loaded with crimes and difgrace.-—gj!/Te Ihall give the account in Sir Sidney’s own words, inj..( 9 )My Lord,'' I HAD the honour to inform your Lordfl:ip by my ;oter of the 2d inftant, that we were bufify employed*[pmpleting two ravelins' for the reception of cannons( flank the enemy’s neareft approaches diftant only*n yards from them- fhey were attacked that verylight, and almoft e^ery night flr.ce. bat the enemylive each time been repuifed with very oorfiderable lofs;:ffle enemy continued to batter in breach whh progreflive ■iccefs, and have nine feveral times attempted to ftorm,1ft have as often been beaten back with immenfe fl.utgh-fIr Our beft mode of def r ce have been frequent forties11 keep them on the defenfive, and impede the progrefs'| their covering works We have thus been in one ton-Ijiued battle ever fince the b^t'aning of'the fiege, inter-Jjlptcd only at fhort intervals by‘the txceffive fatigue-ofl-Mry individual on both flues We had been long anxi-JM.' looking for a reinforcement, without which .weI'uld not expect to be able to keep the place ib long as we rjiive. The delay of its arrival bling' occafioned by[TOfian Bey’s having originally received orders to join me‘(f Egypt I was obliged to be very peremptory in the're-i| tition of my orders for him to join me here ; it was not fjWever, till the evening ot the day before yefterday, the V%y-firft day of the fiege.v that this fleet of corvettes1.tranfports made its appearance The approach offs additional ftrength was the fignal to Bonaparte for*'mioft vigorous- and peri'evering atfault, in hopes to getfiflefiion of the town before the reinforcement to the par_ iilon could difsmbark. ''The conftant fire'pi the befiegers was fuddenly incrcaft fl ‘fa fold, our flanking lire from afloat was, as ufual, plied^c ^the utmoft \ but with lefs effeft than heretofore, as tjjr•i lemy had thrown up epaulments and traverfers’of fufl- ient thickuefs to protecl: him from it. The guns thatf Iaid be worked ;o the greateft adv ntags were a Fr-ncfi Vhis eighteen-pounder in the Light houfe caflle, manned*’j»m the Fhefeus under the diredfion of Mr Scroder tjfeller’s mate, and the laft mounted twenty tour pounderUhe North Ravelin, manned from the iighe, under the fi,jjtftion of Mr. Jones, midfhiprrun Thele guns'( le )added to the Turkifh mufquetry, did great execution ; and|iI take th s opportunity 6( reconimendiog thefe two officers*whole iiuiefit>gab!e vigilance and zeal merit my wa mel^i’praife. The tigre’i two 68 pound carronades, mounted.; |.in wo cermes lyiii| in the mole; and worked under®the dirrftion ot Mr Bray, carpenter of the i igre ,one: iof the braveft and molt intelligent men l have ferved with,)?;threw Ihells imo the centre of this column with evident cMffeft, and checked it considerably Still, however, the?enemy gained ground, and made a lodgement in th . fe^j|cond llory of the North-eaU l ower ; "the upper p irt being «■•I'lentirdy bartered down and the ruins in the ditch forming ;ffithe afeent by which they mounted. Day-light fhrwed us-i :dthe French ftandard on the outer angle of the tower^ A;l|number of the enemy afeepded to the ffiault, while thM!ijlheap of ruins between the two parties fervtd as a .breall:'work for both, the muzzles ot their mufkets to: thing!hand the fpear heads of the Itandards locked. Grzza PachasIhearmg the Engldh were t-n the breach, quitted his lta-|,tidn, where, according to the anti nt i'urkifh cuftotn^|he was fitting, to reward fuch as Ihould bring him the-1heads of the enemy, and difinbuting muiket cartriogeslwith his own hands The energetic old man coming be«|hind us, pulled us down with violence, laying, if anyharm happened to his linglilh friends, ail was loft i his.jamicable cornel}, as to who Ihould defend the breach oc^j: icafioned a rulh of ' urks to the ipot, and thus time \gained for the arrival of the firft body of Hafl’an Bty’s I'troops. I had now to combat the Pacha’s repugnance to-[admittingany troops but his Albanians into the garden off li.i)iis teragiio, become a very imp -riant p it. as occupying‘Ithe terreplem of the ran part. here was not above 20,ajj§[of the original - 1000 Albanians left alive. This was noiJtime for debate, and i over-ruled h s obje&ions by intro* ^ducingthe Chiftlick regiment leeo men, armed witli bay41 onets, difciplined after the European method under SultanJi I Selim’s own eye, and p aced by Ids Imperial Majefty’s ex*|(prefs commands at my cltlpolal The garrilon animated|Iby the appearance of fuch a reinforcement, was now all on It‘Toot, and there being conlequentiy enough to defend theil(breach, 1 piopofed to the Pacha to get rid of the objecti let them make J( It )Tally and take the aflailants in flank: He readily complied»nd 1 gavp directions to the Colonel to get pcficflion of th<.teoemy's third parallel or neareft trench, and there foitifjmimfelf by the parapet outwards. I his order be-|»ng e'eariy underftood, the gates were open'd, and th<jfTurks milled ■ ut ; but they were not equal to fuch a move-, and were driven back to the town with lofsBr^y, however, as ufual, protected tlte town-gatefli-acioufly with grape from tire fixty-eight pounders,‘[.'he encTiy afterwards began a new breach by an in*ieflsnt fire d:rtCted to the Ibuthward of the lodgement,irery ihot knocking down whole, flieets of a wali much:f loiid than tnat of the tower on whichthey had txpend--1 fb much time and amrfmni ion The group of Gerie-ils and Aid du camp which the fhells from the fixty-eight jrunners had frequently difperfed, w,s now re-, fT.n;blecl||n Richard Coeur de Lion’s Mount' Bonaparte was dif-1r.guifliabh; in the cen*re of a femicirle ; his gefliculatronsl]|adicated a renewal of attack, and his difpatching an Aidu omp to the camp, fhewed that he waited only fot anforcement I gave directions for Haflan Bey’s fliipjjr take their ftations in the fhoah water to the fouthward?und made the Figre’s fignal to r»£igh, and join the The* !ii:us to the northward. A. little before funfet, a maflivej,lumn appeared advancing to the breach with a folemn jpep. > he Facha’s idea was nor to defend the brink tlmfiilme, but rather to let a certain number of the enemy in,Ifed then ciofe with them, according to the l urkifh mode* fif war I h column thus mounted the breach unmolefi-~{tj, and defeended from the rampart into Pacha’s garden, :adhere in a few minutes, the braveft' and moil advancecTtjlpong them lay h-adleis corpfes •, the reft retreated pre-Hiipitatcly. General Rambaud w'as killed. Much confu-l'’ Iiipitately. General Rambaud w'as killed. Much confurf'.on ai oie in the tow n from theadual entry of the enemv,1ill. having been impoflible, nay impolitic, to give previous^.' formation to every body of the mode of defence adopted, rifl: the enemy fhould corne at a knowledge of it by means'*it their fpies Bonaparte will, no doubt renew the attack,? ,i :e breach being, as above dccribed, perfectly praCticablje>• r fifty men a breail; indeed the town is not, nor ever:been defenfive according to the rules of art, but, accord-, ’( 12 )that it is in itfelf worth-defending, b«t we feel .that it is bythis breach Bonaparte means to march to f-r-h? r con-ffljqucfts. ft is on the Iffue of this conflidt tliat pends theIfjopinion of the moitkude of fpedlators on the fm oundin^Jfhiils, who wait only to join the viflor, and with htch aj-only tb joinforcement for the execution of hfs known projects, Con«Itantinopie and" even Vienra muft fed the (hock Be afijilured, my Lord, the rnagnitude of our difficulties does but tpSncreafe the energy of our'efforts in the attempt to difij r' arge f ur duty, and though we may, and probably (hallfbe overpowered, 1 can venture to fay that the French willI;be l'o much farther weakened before it prevails, as to be{'little able to profit by its dear bought vidtery.1 have the honour to be, &cW. Sjdney bMlTH<My Lord,The providence of Almighty Goe has been wondeifuilyi'Sman'fefted in the defeat and precipitate retreat of the;| French army, the means we had of oppofing its gigantic! f'wflhrts a^r.inft US being totally inadequate of themfelves to ‘;|the produdiion of fuch a refill. The meature of their int«■quities feems to have been £Hed. by the mafiacre of ths|Turkifii-priloners at Jaffa, in cool blood, three days after,ft heir capture; and the plain cf Nazareth has been thffli^boundary of Bonaparte’s extraonlinarv career He raifetfli•y oi Bonapartif the fiege of Acre on the'ZOth May, leaving all his heavy• rtiiierv behind him, either buried or thrown into thelea, where, however, i‘:j> vifible. and can eafily be weighed!The circumftances which lead to this event, fubfequent t«mylaft difpatch on tl>e pth inftant, are as follows :—ettving that the idea of the Syrians, as to the fuppclefflin efiftrble prawels cf thefe invaders, muft be changed,lincf^they had witnefied the checks which the befieging armjdCaily met with in their operations before the town of Acre®, ■1 wrote a circular letter to the lb inces and Chiefs of thg :Chriftians of Mount Lebanon, and alfo to the Sheiks ofthljDruies, recalling them to a (enfe of their duty, and engaaj:jhg them to cut off the fupplks-from the Trench camp.,J lent them at the fame time, a copy of Bonaparfe’spious Frcclamation, in which he boafts of having oveji( *3 >*le exhortation, calling upon thetft to choofe between tire) |5endfliip of a Chriftian knight and that of an unprincipled3 jjnegado. i his letter had all the effect • could delire.: (hey immediately fent me two Ambaffidors, profeffing)t only friendthip, but obedience ; afluring me, that in| "oof of t he, latter, they had frnt out parties to arreft fuch; the mountaineers as (hould be found carrying wine andi pn-powder to the French camp, and placing eighty prUi ners oPthis defcription at my difpofal. I had thus thei tisfa£lion to find Bonaparte’s career farther northwardFeftually Hopped by a warlik/- people inhabiting an ithpe-itrable country General Klebers Jivifion was ferlt eaft-|ard, towards the ford of the Jordan, to oppofe the Da-tafcus army ; it was recalled from thence to take its turnthe daily efforts to mount the breach at Acre, in whichrerv other div;fion in fuccefliori had failed, with the lofi ofeir brave men,'and above three fourths of their officer j., fhe Tyrkilh C'.ifffick Regiment having been cenfunsdpr the ill ihccefs ot their laiiy, and tneir unlteadinefs infie attack of the garden made a frelh lally the next night.ISolimari \ga the Lieutcnant-Coiooel, being determineda retrieve the honour of the : egimeut by the pun£lual ex-jfcution of the orders 1 had given him to make hitnftlftafter of the enemy’s third parallel, and this he did moff:pedtually; but the impetuolity ot a few carried them onpthe tecond trenchwhere they lofriome of their (land ards.bough they fpiked four guns ''before their retreat,jjdeber’s divinon, indead of mounting the breach accord-jhg to dpnapirte’s intention, was thus obd^d to fp.,nii is time and ftrength in recovering thetc works, in which jl£ bing in quo, except the to Is of menj which v! jpafidcrable on boat hues. After this.f,;iiure, rhewas vetyil, Bure, rhe Frcncl||■rtnadiers abfolutelv refufed to mouitc the breach anyfi [tore over the putrid bodies ot their unouried comp mions 1i jacrificed in fornter attacks Subordination was nowij;^tan end, and all hopes of lucceh had now vanidted, tlJIi juemy had no alternative uft bur a precipitate retreat]t idiich was put in execution in the nigdu between the aot"'nd 2id i.ift/ I haye above laid/that the batteringrtillery (except the carriages, which avers burnen the 2othj f•mg train of irMi( 14 )The utmoft diforder ha? been manifefled in the retreat*land the whole track between Acre and Gazi h Itrewedwith the dead bodies of thofe who had funk under their;fatigue, or the effedt of flight wounds; fuch as could walk,unfortunately for them, not haviug been embarked. Vuerowing gun-boats annoyed thevancolnmn of the retreatingarmy in its march along,the be^ch, and the Arabs har-:,raiTrd its rear when it turned inland to avoid their fire.I The heaps of tmburied Frenchmen lying on the bodiesof thofe whom they mafTicred two months -gr-, afford®(another proof of DiVine Jutlice,- vvliirh hisj^ufed thefe!Imurderers to perifli by the infedfion ari-fing from theirtown- atrocious adt W. S. Smith.CHAP. II. .Operations o/'Sir Ralph Abercrombie in EgyptFROM THE LONDON GAZLlTL.T IE fi^et failed from Marmorie on the 22d Feb uaryJiand anchored in Aboukir Bay on the 2d March FrouvIthat day to the 7th, the weather was fo boifterous, and thejfwell fo great, that it was impradticable to difembark.This circumfhmce gave the enemy full ieifure to colledttroops and artillery, and tomrake every necelfary prepara-fion to cppnfe us. fhe whole infantry of the garrifon ofAlexandria, three hundred cav;dry an ; t turteen or fifteenpieces cf cannon were placed on a fp ice of little more thantwo miles, from near tne cafi'e of Aboukir to the narrowilfthtr.us, which forms the boundary of the Lake Suchwas the fituarion in which we found things on the morn-iing of the 8th, when the defeent was made Nothing, IVbelieve, ever exceeded the boldnefs and p rfeverance withjhvbith the boats contvaued to approach the fliore, under ai howerof bullets, thclis and grape Every difeharge was|Lnfwertid by a fbout from the feanier, and all feemed tof ally infenfible of danger L he referve on the right form¬ed as if cn the Parade, and in a moment carried a hdgh'tearly equal to, and very like to, that of Camperdowr..! he left were charged by the Rivalry the moment theyitot out of the boats. However, they drove every thing" efore them ; and in the course of three quarters of an,our, the enemy was completely beaten, with the lofs of.alf h, artillery After a Ualt pft^tlme^^m-i-t •:( 1? )I j»te’s brigade, which, had not been landed, the army ad-ced about four miles, where we remaided till the i-2th ilanding of provifi >ns and ftores being much impededhe boifterous weather)n the tath, we again marched about five miles, con*1: tly (kirmiihing with the advanced guard of the enemy,- had received a reinforcement of two half brigades ofand on** regiment of cavaVy, from Cairo We[ed for the night, about 3 miles from the enemy’s po»In, which feemed and proved very advantageoustext morning the armv moved to attack the right of it,rching by lines from the left, the referve c vering therement and moving parallel with the fire. As theco-!n> advanced into the plain, the enemy attacked thes of both with all his cavalry, fuppored by a confi-hle body of infantry, and ten or twelve pieces of can-hhis attack was repulfed by the advanced guard-90th and--92d,i both of which behaved mod nobly,he force .the enemy oppofed to us appeared about fivejfand infantry, fix hundred cavalry, and a large pro-;ion of artillery; the ground being particlaHy favour-to the two laft i he movements though under a cen-1 cannonade, were regular and accurate ; tiie General,ibis lafi .aftion had his horfe fliot under him.:he caftle of Aboukir has furrendered, and our pre-pofition cuts off communication between Alexandriathe NileIn the 2 ift of March, they enemy attacked us with alJL} f’rce, the attion commenced .n our before day light,li f.tfe attack on our left, whi<h was under Major-ieral Craddock's command, \ h-.-re tbgy were foon re—pd. Ihe mutt vigorous efforts of the enemy were*tver dire died againil pur right which they uffd tvciy|b e exertion to turn.— he attach on that point wasn with gre-t impetuoficy by th t rench infantry fuf-d by a ftrong body of cavalry wh charged in cc~3 . they were received by our troops with equal ar-t|i, and the utmoft Iteadinefs and eife p ire : the con-ajlwas unufually obttinate y the enemy wire tv ice re—Wid, and their cavalry were r- peated y mixed with our( ** )We have taken about two hundred prifoners' wounded'; but it was impoffible to purfue our veto!on account of our inferiority in cavalry, tmd becaufe tlFrench had lined the oppbfite hills with cannon, uniiwhich they retired. We alfo have fuff red conlijeraol*" few more ievere aftions have ever been f ught, confi 'STing the numbers on both ftdes. We hav- i'u ained^iinjreparable lofs in the perfen of our never fufficiem!y to jjlamented Comnaander in ihief, Sir Ralph Abercrou:who was mortally wounded in the a£tion, and died oi: tii28ih of March. I beii ve he was wounded early, but Fconcealed his Jituation from thofe about him, and ccm{nued in the field, giving his orders with that coolnefiaperfpiceity which had ever marked his charaffe till loflafter the action was over, when he hunted through w-nefs and lolts of blood. As his life was honourabh, f,»his death glorious. His memory will be r< corded in tannals of his country—will be facred to tv.-y Sritifh l(w|dier, and embalmed in the recolle&ion of grateful pollei h||hAfter the battle of the 21 ft of March, our army, unij.der the command of General ffutchinfon, was tinploylj 'in reducing feveral places in the poffrifion of the eneajfwhije at the fame time, the town o Alexandria was biunder a clofe blockade. The French army fu fie red colfiderably from the want of ,pro*ifion::} and other needfaries. Attempts were repeatedly made by a fijuadrlliunder the command of Admiral Gantheu^ie, touif mbafla number of troops to their afiiftance, which were tontinuallv fruftrated by the vigilance of our fleets. So tluthe enemy daily loiing ground, and feeing ail hopeslaffiftance gone, were obliged, firft by the furren ,erjflGrand Cair ', and afterwards of Alexandria, (which furiren^jered about the latter end of Auguft, but not uefor!rhe Britifli had got pofllflxon of fome of the out-pofts,) ftevacuate Egypt, and accordingly it is again given up ti;he Qttcnuo Forte.FINIS.