THE [MEASURESOFM A rr 21 1 M O N 1' 9INTERWOVEN WITH SUNDRYComical and DqUfjhtful Stories,WIT^ THE CHARMING DELIGHTS AM)IN ALL ITS DIVERTING ENJOYMENTS.By Author JIeilI,., Glasgow.io ,b‘jI rami ?.noit.v.s8‘j{i9dmuu-■lisoh 970111Ifidt biifi-tin Hr)I .blio1) •« : Ji IsaiugB iDomiila £ nssd i-bH swift 9uiJodeJaUn tnwob l^p^^^jQ^iinybnoa JrH) putatPRINTED FOR JTHEPLEASURESMATRIMONY,&c.It is a strange thing, that people should ask ofthe fifteen comforts or pleasures of Matrimony,as if they could be numbered; whereas I affirm,that the pleasures o£ matrimony are numberless.No wonder then there is nothing more desir¬ed, or even coveted, than matrimony, and thatit has been in such high esteem among all na¬tions from the beginning of the world. It istrue there has been a clamour against it; ar dmany that condemn it, and cry it down, mistakecomforts for. discomforts.13And yet even those who complain the most a-gainst matrimony will allow that there are fifteencoihforts in it, and if so, though there were nomore, which yet I will not grant, who, that isnot a madman, would not marry to enjoy fifteensuch comforts, as all the world cannot afford himbesides ? But what will such men say to wooing ?I own, indeed, it is not matrimony itself, but it isthe highway to it, and he that marries without itlooses one of the chiefest pleasures that belong toit. So that in order to treat of the pleasures ofMatrimony, I find it necessary , to begin withWooing.Wooing consists in a man’s pitching upon someobject of his affections of the female sex ; and it isa comfort, there are more maids than mankind,that he is not confined in his choice ; for if onewill not another will. Well, having fixed uponthe desired she, and found out her habitation,with what her fortune is, he next equips him¬self as fine as the tailor and sempstress can makehim, and prepares for his address; and it is apleasure to him to be thus rigged, to wii) hisfair mistress- Now, whether the girls hayefather or mother, uncle or aunt, there’s nonebut will admit him to pay a visit to his mis¬tress, when he comes in the way of matrimony.But now what a pleasure it is to he admit-1ted to a kiss, and a gracious smile from his »tress. After that he has just‘'shewed himself,and taHced idly to her abofut1 half an hour, wh:7a pleasure is It to. him at his departure to u-hUge her maid with the king’s picture, winchOltfsia' her fo give sueh a ehai'acter of himjcs-[(^ittlly if the picture happens to be set in gold,its-fie begets irr the young woman an ’alfeetiontowards him i which if he comes, to knoW at theS^dortd meetiug, it is impossible to describe'thetransports it puts him into ; it rnslpires such joyiii hisbreafet thafhwcHU scaree tdll where liens,or what he does. But at his departure, lie scarceforgets to double his generosity to the maid, asshe gives her promisfe of further servidek to him.Nor is the young baggoge wmso than her wca d-,forshie tob well' kirbws her own Interest1: aridtherefore, in about a Vlaf or- two, Ibeai*;Mi«tifetf,sih^s she, yob'cannot imagine whefe I have be4hthis morning ! No, says the young gentlewoman,how* should I ? Why, says she, I have been atthe conjuror's, but you ca mot think wli,af.‘ a manhe1 il'!7 1 ‘did but;ask whether such a gen'tlemdnficourted'rtiy mrdtress’? arid oa'^tidg his eyes on lifebbok, he told, me he'd id and-described him so esfeactly, that ml'pairitej’ ijorild have drawn hts pio-ture better ; arid, besides that, lie told md tdiat-thiswas the verS"nTAn*.' anti ti'O ptbbr,' whom ibtftme<jta*igtied for you ; .but I wojKL not luiw you U1-lieve nuj,- but go to bun /yourself to-mprrow.'HiO-young/g-entluwoiujii keai’lng- w. aiU•agog to kubwithe truth.ol' the matter,, and hayingmore mind f ji marriug.* than; tievojtuX^.ipatead. oxplayer, goes to the<ceajuror^ and ho had,not beena canning'mail, . if ho had not told , her right,being ihitruclotl 'by the maid treforehaVKl wh&jt tosay. Well, young! gentlewhinatfiWhtg/dati^fled k was the will of hhe-stars, begins .pr-tsehtlyto have a good opinion o-i him, of.whieh the ihaidfails not to acquaint himu Now. judge, leader,if this is not an extraordinary pleasure,; for whatcan contribute more to his satisfaction, than tofind his mist reds go to the devil to make sure dfhim.But besides this, there passes., many letters,and, O ! what a pleasure it is to him to ransackall the academies of compliments for fine tropesand figures toadorn his style with. But then tieranswers ! how transporting they. dre:i--hovK oftendoes he kiss the blatteth character!, h But,^ehow fresh pleasure's ci'dwd'upon hiin.; Just nowhe is told his mistress dvill be -it-h. dancing inLime-street; this fatis the increasing flame; no¬thing will serve- but he must be with her^nndthen how lie stniiks and sixers) but when h»Sdys• diet da,ice be »«• air:ater <transports; how mu^Vidot's lie rtdimre her lofty carriage : the holding 14/her petticoat enchants him, and the celestial mo¬tion of her buttocks make his teeth chatter, andhis heart go pit-a-pat to think wluit he shall dowith so much excellence! But it would take avoid lire to tell the pleasures of tins interview; letii suffice to give him an opportunity to steal herpocket-handkerchief, and to treat her and her maidat the tavern. Nor can his mistress now refuseto let him take as many kisses as he will, whichyields him such a mighty pleasure, that he cantalk of nothing else but the purple violet, theblushing rose, and the lily’s w hiteness; the phoenix,nest is not so perfumed as she; and. to describeher person, the riches of Mexico and Peru are fartoo mean to stand in. competition w ith, her ;, nay,alb the dazzling jewels of the East must give w ayto her superior lustre-—v—But when they havedrank of the richest wines to recompense him forall his pains and charges, his mistress condescendsto treat him, by letting him taste the charmingcherries of her coral lips, and suck from thencethe fragrant breath that far exceeds. Arabia’s richperfume; which wraps him* iai such pleasure, thatthe young spark imagines he is in heaven- Andif the very way to matrimony be thus paved withdelight, what must the end of it he '? And trulywere it not so, do you think the country clownwould plough and harrow, yet fling- away hwsickle and flail for the love of AmarHla ? Or,would the tradesman leave his shop, but for the‘lpleasures that attend it? It is this makes the 1apprentice court in hugger-mugger, and values :not the loss of his freedom, when once captivatedby the fair Susannah's bright eye. So mightilytransporting are the pleasures of wooing aboveany other pleasures in the world.But if the pleasures of Wooing are so veryI great, then what are the pleasures of Wedding ?Consent being given, and the wedding resolved|: on, the lover has now free access to his mistress,and may kiss above board as much as he pleases;the which is another vast pleasure; as it is also to1 And himself the only welcome guest in the house,and, as it were, already innoculated into the fa¬mily. And then, it is another pleasure to hearevery one commending his choice, and telling himhow amiable and virtuous a wife he had chosen.Visitors crowd in upon him, especially of the fairsex, asking a thousand impertinent questions,| which must needs be great pleasure for him toanswer. When is the day ? cries Mrs. Prate-a-pace. Pray, sir, how near is your happiness ?cries Tittle-tattle. But, in the midst of theseimpertinences, what a pleasure is it to the youngman to hear his mothek* elect taking the woman6*ip, ami saying, Hold, neighbours, fair and softlygoes far! siu* shall not be married hug-ger-inug-' ger ; my child slmH be married according to herquality ; I am not for a stolen marriage.But we w ill talk no more-of preliminaries, butcome to the thing itself; for all things being set¬tled, and the appointed morning-eome, up getsthe bridegroom, ami dresses! himself in ail hisgaudy attire. " ... nmThe-bridemaid Irastens to the bridb’s bluinffeer,and there finds her waslied, breathing nothing butessence and jessamine, and her-fine Hollandsmock ready to put on; so that being dressed in atrice, she'appears mord like'an angel than like amortal. She is scarcely dressed, but the bride¬groom is coming into her chamber, and with sub¬missive knees, adores his earthly deity, and kissesthe lillles of her; white hands, and sips ambrosialnectar from her lips, and then conducts her to theroom of state, Kvhere they both stand to welcometheir invited guetjts.—And sure this must yieldhim much pleasure. Now, -thing* being ready4they take coach, environed by a great Crowd ofspectators, of which not otie of them but mustsay somethingiJ—There’s a well-matched couple,says one. There’s a lovely couple, says another.There will be sweet doing betwixt them to-night,say* n third. And thu»tiuf rabble run along, tillf)the ehtireh dbon are ‘Imt, arid keep them fromcoming any farther. The knot is luckily fixed\Vhieh can never be undone but by the death oforib of them. And, therefore, after the ceremonyof { I, John, -take thee, Joan, to be my weddedwife: and I, Joan, take thee, John,i &c. they gofrom church againy and first receive the joy of thehaggard; the bridegTo#m, for the grandetir. of theWedding, throwing atrtbngsf them a handful o£smnft rabriey,- which'-sek them- a-scrambling? then’raking eoach, they f'etut-rt to tlie - place fromwhence they set out, attended by the u-abble,which is a ibark^jf greatness.. Being come ihfo thc dinitig-lfoom, tjbe guestsdf dovirsbnnist' all Salute the bride,-artddn teturn,tlid bridegrooni fir,ist salute all thewimng women;;'dVl 'this Must 'iUrC1 he a- gt’dat pleasure to him.This usual formality being over, the bride-:gtoOm then brinks'a bumper to the whole asdebi-bb,,;f .iiiooigobnd -.ill ut kmo-, /fi//him ,dj (,<,[}„By’this Jikie dinnei* is upon the table, and mar¬shalled with as much formality as at Lord May¬or's fi-abt. After the parson.says grace, ;they lallto without farther ceremony; and here pomes sinew pleasure to the bridegroom, to >;ee all theguests address their glasses to the bridej and aftPerwar-rls to him. And h will be a plea'tllw extra-10ordinary to him if he can but keep himself sobertill he goes to bed.Nor is it less pleasure to hear the discourse atthe table after the second course, when a jolljred-nosed toper, a pot companion of the bride’sfather, began, saying, Marriage was instituted ina state of innocency, nay, even in Paradise; andthat without it the church would want pastors,and the kindom soldiers to defend it.UNay, farther, that children are blessings fromheaven, and therefore barrenness was accountedthe greatest scandal in the world among the Jew ¬ish women : Aye, and by the English women too,replies a grave old matron, and I should be sorrythat my young mistress here (as well for my ownsake as her’s) should be under that curse ; for Ihope ere ten months, to carry her first boy to thefount.Dinner being over, the parson blesses them;when the midwife comes to the bridegroom, say¬ing, Now, happy man, for a maidenhead ; butthere is a great discretion to be used in the ga¬thering of it; it must be gently cropped for fear ofspoiling ; for if you go too boisterously to workyou’ll pull it up by the roots ; but if you do it justby degrees, it is young and tender, and you’ll findh- coming.We will now suppose the afternoon worn out!11by daneing, to tlie great pleasure of the sperta-tors, and the night begun, the bride is stolen a-way from the company, and put to bed; and af¬ter her, the bridegroom, now ready to consum¬mate the highest joys of matrimony : but thoughthe bridegroom now thinks each minute an agetill he reaps the longed for fruit of all his amor¬ous expectation, he is still obliged to wait withpatience ^ for up comes the sack posset, whichthe women think will make the bridegroom kindand lusty too ; nor can the bride and bridegroomget void of this unnecessary ceremony, until somegood compassionate lady throw on purpose* thestocking into the posset, when she pretended tothrow it at the bride. This caused the sack pas-set to be taken away ; which being done, it onlyremained now to kiss the women round, and sodepart whilst the bride’s mother locked fast thedoor, and took away the key, that none mightinterrupt them. They now, being both left a-lone, the bridegroom, without any doubt, im¬proves his time: and therefore let this suffice, thatthey now revel in those joys they not long beforedurst hardly think of; and for the bridegroom,as Carew expresses it.Now his enfranchis’d hand on every side.May o’er her naked polish d ivory glide;No ¥nrtaitr voiv o’pi' thc transparent !a-.m.Is th^re Vefoi i' her treasure rtrawti;Nbw void of ;i!I oTehce, he may beholdHer*bosom bare, and her unbraxded ^old ;Bdf'tKbti^h'he had revelled in bliss albttijfhtjyet Ms fidr spbirsb's mother came to the, fair cou¬ple in the' mominp:, to inquire ho\v her dearestdaughter did.—Yet the son was first saluted withSon, how is it ? So well, said he, that I have beeritM§ tri PHradlse; With that she put intohi's harid a plafe'hf cOmfortable sweetmeats, eon-,sistihg of bruigocs Stc. for his spouse and he to re-g^le^thehisehres-,''''which’ «T6We," :shfe fills them a.howl of hfie&idine, 'dVops' thcreirt a- new laidegj$<! HvHWh^ dthe ; fedOgfo'Onv : fff'esehting‘! tothe jkVdnr^HP'hit pledsitre, th^ iriother fills'an¬other fOf 'Hvh5ch:, ‘•a'ltflrfilt1 'dnlrertthig'^hethen dhiftfr quietly OfF-^-But 'Mothw1 ‘Midnight.-■who lOnhed to ;know hovt the bridegroom nor-;fofnied. dM um tnany attacks he had made on>tHO virgin fort, comes to tile bride, and with a.whiter in her ear1, would have her confess, bnf.the lady replied’only with a blush, which madethe bridegroom guess what-she meant,und there¬fore told her it was an unfair question as yet ; youought, said hc’,:-to’tfihw till wc rise; and since wOare recmitedOhas pray wait till the physic has<lone working, an*l tium take the whole-accounttogether. Upon this, the mother and midwiferetire. But to digest what they had eaten anddrank, Ivy taking a nap, but the drums and trum¬pets began to sound, and, in a moment, the streetwas full of benedictions to the' bride and bride¬groom; and this must be another pleasure, for nowthe bridegroom, unwilling to pay the money fornothing, gets up and dances to the music ; andthis must be a great pleasure, for all the sensesate pleased at once.Now- the next day is spent in being tieated bythe bridemert at a tavern ; and now there can beroom for nothing but pleasure.The pleasure of thew’eddinig being over^how !oven, did I say ? i beg '-out pardon ; they are sofar from heingoveiy that they eontinuewhile theylive together. And therefore I should Say, be¬ing thus begun, they are attended by another plea¬sure, hntl that is hduseke ping ; now time begins'to jog the bridegroom by the elbow,‘and tellhim that he ought to1 mind bis business ; forbags will soon glmw e'tnpty utdess filled again.And’what is his pleasure now, but the busi¬ness of housekeeping, and" to get all things for-it. lie that goes a borrowing goes a sorrowing,as-the old ptoVerb says. Anri Sure the Woman isuLn un ill condition who is obliged to borrow everything she wants.Now, if she would be finer than the rest of herneighbours, it is the husband’s reputation, andthat must give him pleasure. Good housewiferyand right management make things last long. Itis indeed the honour of men to see cleanliness,nor do they love holes in there stocking heels, northat their ruffles shold hang like bell ropes : andyet they scorn to set the least stitch in them them¬selves. So, therefore, to have a wife that willtake care to have every thing done for him, mustneeds be a pleasure to him: and what if she wantsa Venetian carpet or a little china ware, surelyno man in his wits would quarrel with his wifeabout "such trifles, when all should redound to hisreputation : nay suppose she has a mind for a sil¬ver coffee or teapot, or' a pair of silver sconces,where is the harm of it ? Certainly, the moreplate a man has, the richer he is : this oughttherefore to be a pleasure to him. And I canassure you, of my own knowledge, there are seve¬ral husbands would be glad their wives,4iad suchthings. Besides such things set out a room, andmake the kitchen, if the house be kept clean, havea reputation among the neighbours. There’ssuch a one’s house looks like a paradise, says onert would do one’s heart good to look at it, criesanother. AukI all will grant it is the most provi¬dent way for a man to spend but little abroad,and keep the better house at home; and if so, hemay well permit his wife to entertain her friendsnow and then without prejudice to her husband'sestate ; for a glass of wine tastes as well at homeas abroad ; and a capon may be cheaper dressedin his own kitchen than at a French ordinary.And as for women wearing fine clothes, whichsome object against, I say it is for the honour ofthe nation in general, and must be a particularpleasure to the husband to see his wjfe as fine asher neighbours.But there is another pleasure attends uponmatrimony, and that is, if he has married a wifewho has got a relation in the country, and it is teato one but she has, for women do not rise put ofthe earth like pompions, but their pedigrees hassomewhere or other a beginning. If the womanhas not, perhaps the man has. And whether theirrelations be by the man or the woman it is no mat¬ter ; and therefore, when they have once contrac¬ted matrimony, all their relations must be acquainted with it. And in return, they must send Uia letter, whereon they tell him, they shall bp vertglad to see them both in the country.Upon this, she willing to see her friends beforeher lying in ( for we will suppose her to by with16child already,)' and th^ man is no less ambitioijsto let his' kindred'se^'his rtifce thbihe.——-And let«s suppose the yo«m*r niad should hare a mitul togive his wife an airing in the couhtrv, mah vi, Ithink it is a pleasure to him to take H frisk iir thecountry for a month or two, and' then to have-thefour bells in the steeple sOt a jingling for joy, tosummon the inhabitants 'of the villA^e/td^tare atthe bride and bridegroom.And when they haee^bndn gfandiy entertalhedbynrfe cousin, to rnalee^a tdur to another, andthereto hawe all the'ndlbOliref?4 rehbtrbd'agnirbmust needs be a marvellous pleasure to them both,ami more especiaH}’' to,the' hashand, tO^seO'-hisWife 'so caressed and^made' hitjeh' of among ’hWfriends.1 BukperhapK,1'bfter all this'grt^at pleaiehreV'there is asad eontplaittf that the young wO-ihan is not j^t'with child. ' : 1 'This mud^ redOtirtds-tO'the vbvtdg inati’s di's-graety aed it-.i vt^y p^t' datn|j f^the [pleasuresofriiafrithtni y .-^-;liii t hold'!! not sb - fast, niffrioml,pray let 'dll things 15*0 WeilvcofMllered, and; thdhare's foot set agaiVnirthe g'o’ose's-'g'ibiets, for ifthere he rio,tdfirdi*^A there is less’bKarge. And feUthe pleasures of the bed are '.stiS thesatrie. Thbflive in the constant-Of the meahs, and! whocan tell what may'cdrttf'Hf it. Rome Was hotbuilt in one dhyl' 1 ilKibf not'l'nf it'Is allat"artto miuiy outVs uoctuvjial tlunU uponthe charge he is bringing upon himself, by satis¬fying a little amorous itch; but when he hud doneit and done it, and done it* S»g£tu, and finds thereis mo daligCUi: then, he.full.-; i ‘Id it w ithout fear orwits.. .Bep?ides,.t’iterb:isianothe#'!fiOnyeiuency, tWymay live more pilntifully, here ajseruo portions topirovule for .(thiidien.jiwhe® .others are forced to^eil part, and.soihbtuads: ail (their putHmOny, tbprovide .portions, fou their children.But all this dolks not satisfy .the young woman.Shu fancies tlver^is somu pdiialiar pleasure whena child is gotten, and she longs to know it. Andwhat drakes her the tfiore eager is she is upbraidedky herneighbours. What l says ode prating gos¬sip, are you nut ready .yet, neighbour ■?. No, noth¬ing like it, nor towards it, as l know of. Lack-a-rduy ! cries aherAgaib,-i han't been married thir¬teen montiis, mid yet this child is a quarter hid;Aytv. says the young wortran, with a sigh, *»ahave-b&towed your time tv-jell; i have been clilmried near,eight months, and yet there is no signof any thing coming. .Siie had «c.irce spoke,before another gossip laid hold cf the lust wordsHow l skid she, nidrriijd near eight months andnothing coming d baiieyc me, there’s a fault onone side or the other i Do.you think one of myage and CQraple.\iiom'c<iir !»e in the fault ? I knowISmyself so well, that 1 will lea re all the world tojudge of me. Patience a little, cries another ofthe gang, I have known some women have notbeen with child, till they have been married twoor three years. What ! and you would have mestay so long, I warrant you ; but I will assure youneighbour, you are mistaken. Just in the middleof this confabulation, in comes another, and tellsthem she had been at Mrs. Breedwell’s lyingin. How ! says another, is my neighbour Breed-w'ell brought to-bed ? Yes, of a line lusty boy,replies the other. How long has she been mar¬ried ? says the young woman. About eightmonths replies the other. Adds heartiken 1 criedshe, about eight months ! Why, I have beenmarried so long myself, and do not know' I amyet with child.This curious debate held them a long time,and had not been ended so soon, had not one whowas somewhat wiser then the rest come in andaddressing to the complainants, she said, Mistressthis case is difficult, but the best way to receivesatisfaction is to go home, and take the exactdimensions of your husband’s instrument, as tolength and compass, and then we may be able toform a better judgement; but till then we cansay nothing positive. Another advised her tomake1 much of him, and nourish him up well1!)suwith yolks of eggs, oysters, cock stones, era\Vfish, lobsters, periwinkles, beef, marrow, shrr-'rets, with some muscadine or tent. The youngwoman heard all this; but imagined all her costwould be thrown away, if she had riot her fullmeasure ; and accordingly produced it the nexttime of meeting, which, as they surveyed, filledthem with admiration, which one of them express¬ed in this manner; neighbour, there is some othercause why you are not got with child; if thisbe the right measure, I do swear your husbandis a man every inch of him, and therefore mustneeds tell you that the fault is not in him.I know not how it is, said the young woman,very disconsolately, hut I am sure I have giventhe exactest and truest measure—But, that thewoman might not be cast down, Come, come,said one of the good-natured creatures, w ho wrasfor forwarding the business, do not be cast dow n,but use means, and you may yet have childrenenough : for I know a young married couple justin your case. And, by the advice of a worthyand learned physician, the w ife w as got w ith childvery effectually. And this was the whole pro¬cess of the business:The doctor advised the husband to go into thecountry, and stay with his uncle for a fortnight,and then return home ; but he ordered it so, thatthe last. dr.y V journey might !m an easy one ; an»!the with had notice of his coming, she (!i-;-ssui hct-<elf in all the gaiety she could Revise; ami had agood, supper of .light digestion, ready to put. onthe table at his arrival; exposing to hi> vievy.hertine ivory neck and lily bosoj/i bare. And tin.4<Ws ff%r,,shipper ;she cpunscdled him to betljthere to ta!>»f ;his re^t ayyhiie. Then being bothavvitke, liy;.li{nUtis, hand onand talkacl;)o ther. all 1^. soft, things whiyhlove could dictate,^ him.; and when he by .suehamorous discoui'ses, had wr.onght his spirits up tothe highest pi tch, then, to Jail on, and feast him¬self with love’s delightful dainties. In short,.thedoctor’s counsel was observed to a nicety, andthe success answered their expectations : andno| themselves alone, .but others top have foundiUfeffieucious effects,. . ,Now tell me all ye enemies to Marriage, whatpleasure cun a nyan imagine is greater .tjian.for aman thus,to give his wife am. h^self 4 secret andiuiiual satisfaction.You will he apt to say, are (these all the ple^-.Siuvs(pf matrimony ? X answer, No ; not one tenthpart cf them ;—but my design is to delight, nqtto surfeit yon..2-1'inkBACHKLOU’S MISERIKS,Exeuipliiiecl in the History :csi‘Mess Joliu Miigopico.Mag 81*1 co was a cduntry dominie, who tauglitthe clnldrAlthe alphabet, 'and sung Psalms inthe Parish' Kirk on Sabbath. The vocation of' Singing inspired him-with a taste for poetry, addhe t-ptlfd ‘compose’Verses for the edification ofhis neiglibotirS, and1 ,ibr his. own satisfaction ; asample of liis pbetry will make the reader wishfoi: ihofe is/ the stock.'orit Inc ,nhnoo huooos ^'biennodmedoG-d not a beast, but me did make- a man,And not , a Turk,, bat a riue Chyintiart ;His Providence made me a schoolmaster.None of tlirC moaner sort, I. do aver.He was lad, aiid'WWiitd day oiit a‘littleNWhey^ ihfdWfcfias^%^(^!;bo6^iVtilni1 Nd^ei-fy?i9g utfapinte* otttwfGiant KilieP,1 T;6'#k’i‘:6aiWflsi! Of'- Wise Mt4»'W €WhWfe ; m :of -AiClat o’ (build PafritCli, Peden’s Prophecies.'^1* -timm -wk'ifj and a T’Ottphirf'^i;>ious studies,'Magopico obtained a competentknowledge of theology, and an old lady havingemployed him as her chaplain, he would exa¬mine the servants, and ask for their notes of thesermon, or let them know the difference betweena preaching and a lecture; examine who wasthe first man, and what he was made of? aboutthe serpent and satan, and the roaring lion, themeekest man, and the wisest man. He examinedthem on the ten commandments, but observed,at the same time, that they were all a dead let¬ter. After some years spent in this useful voca¬tion, Magopico obtained a kirk, more by the po¬pular voice, and the lady’s influence, than by hu¬man learning, and carnal inflence. He loved thelady’s chambermaid’s second cousin, an l thechambermaid exerted her influence with the oldlady. When he had been lodged twelve monthsin the manse, he found that it was not good forman to be alone, his bed was ill made, his parritchwanted salt, his shoes were not brushed, his shirtswapted buttons, and his black stockings weredarned with white thread, his bed dirty, andswarming \yith fleas, his house in heaps ujxmheaps, and his meat crammed into the pouchesand bellies of every hungry wooer that came afterthe servants ; sheep heads could not be eaten forwool, his broth w as singed, his bread mouldy, his23tiend iamb scouthered, his butfcer made into eats*paws, his cheese was swarming with mites andmaggots, aad full of holes for the mice to playat hide and seek. Frequent were the admoni¬tions he had given to the maid servants, and wasstill turning them off, hut the last was still theworst. For although his studies had again andagain driven him to mountains of thought, andperplexities enough to make any man rin redwud, his ears were deaved and his heart sick withcomplaints, and turmoil; plain speech and mildadmonition had no effect with the servants, whoonly turned the worse on his han i. the longer hewanted a wife t they broke the hinges of anger,the bands of good nature they hurst in two, theyhated the door 6f eivility, nothing was heard butthunderbolts of reproach, and poor Magopico hadno help-mate to soothe or assist him in themidst of his distresses; to attempt to talk to themof working was quite odious; na, na, they mauna’ be ladies. One had a sweetheart and she musthave her ears bored; off she sets for that purpose,saying she was gaun to chase the cow frae thecorn rigg, so dinner was entirely neglected ;another would gossip for whole hours with herneighbours, and her excuse for being so longabsent was that she had been mucking the byre,that the grape had broken, and she had to go tothe *)iudi' to get it nieaded. 'I'lius they neithei-were concerned for his pleasure or his profit, andas for any respect to him, it was no more than anold horse had for his father; it was; hateful tothen! to plout their hands in hawkey’s half’s cogjj hack them > the whole of their toil consistedius trimgaing- of their, nggiajg, though, tlieir hullwas nt fi leaky condition; thus they would.neitherwoak nor stand idle, for their mental capacitieswere hasily employed teaching the arts of lazinessand slandering tjo one another, and how . to tor-,ture .their master, iweause ha was a .dJaclwloriiddrus did they cohtmue to chatter like hungrycrapes, and their tongues never lay, so poor Ma,;>opico was brought ,4ui a- most deplorable dish <>tdesolation; hanging his head, like a hrdwer’iihpdso ji^ an ale-dwtuseMiioor, ■ Sp/at last he i'esol!viid to.take unto himself a wife, to,scold thrtranis, ‘and darn his stockings, balance the aecounts of the housem;ud, and to dress his slueandiwig, dud to mj^y.jdljt'Ac (fifteen pleasures oM«tgim{)l»yii jo’i *J98 oda fio jhoiod e-ieo jod uvniodt ‘juiA woo odt oa&rlo oJ tumg enw sda gniyr; hsJosdgan ylodino i^unr,) oc .ggh moled diiw friuosi oiodw idi qi^og blncw iddJonjgnoi 08 giiiod -idi ocnoxo md brin fftinodilgioi,mvd adl gnidjmn iiasd laid sih JbiIj enw tnoe(