CODSEYEFROMheave n.H A R LBS HAMMOND*I * fal. 14.V.2. 3. TheLordlookeddctvnfrom Heaven vpon the children ofmerit to fee if there were any thatdid underftand and feek God:hej are all gone aftde^ they are alto-lether become flth% tb. re is none thatdoth good, no not one.EDlNB. VRGH yrintcd by Ahdkevy Anderson.^Anno 1671.GODS EYEFROMHeaven.BEloved Countrey men , I haveonce more prefumed toprefentunto your view,this fmall Bookintituled, Gods 'Ey from Eeaven • andI would defirc all you that do acknow¬ledge thereis a God, whofe all'feeingeye is over all the fons and daughtersof men,to give attentive ear un o thisbook, for it concerns the higheftaswell as theloweft,to confider what youdo here upon earth, for the Lord feesall your a&ions, be they done neverfo private he wil one day bring them toightj he hath not only an eye into \ our* A 2 fecre .s Eye from Heaven.icts^nd clolcft rooms, but.a: vieusyour clofc anddaikwthat are committed in your fe-^ethearts. ButI need not prcffe thisbelief to any that profefTc the N amc ofChriftianStbuclct me tell the Athetftsofthefc times,that there is a God thatfees, thou fuffereft their herefies andblafphemics .* 7he foci hathf tidin hisheart ( faith David) there is no God,and fo do they. How many be thereof fuch opinioes now in thefe lattertimes that will feck to maintain fuchblafphemy by difcourfe,and are coun¬ted by fuch of their own wicked hellilhopinions, not fools,as David cals thembut wife*. But allrvildom that comethnot from aboveyis foolijhneffe: Solo¬mon faith. A companion of fools Jhallbedeftroyed. Therefore it behoves allChriftians,that defirc the knowledgeand wMdom of God, to haveafpe-cial care how they companythemfelvcswith fuch enemies of God, for fear theLord fhould leave you to yourfelves*and fo be drawn away by their wickeddevices.Gods Eye from Heaven. $devices, to the utter deftm&ion ofyour fouls and bodies. The Lord loft¬ed down from Heaven upon the chil¬dren ofmen^ to Jee if there were any thatwould underJtand and [eek God: Allare gone out of the way^ they are allcorrupt^ there U none that doth good^nonotnone, Pfal. 14. A fad expreffiondelivered by theSptrit of God, by themouth of his Prophet David, in bistime: and do you not think that if theLord look down from heaven nowupon the children of this age, his fpiritmay not fend forth the like voice a-mongft us all < I am afraid, if not allyet the moft of us arc gone out of hisnay that he preferibes us to follow, andarc too m ich add idled to follow ourown wayes, and think in our own eyesthey are good wayes, when there isnone a nooa us tfm doth good,no notone. St. Paul tells us the fame,3. o. There is none righteous no notone. New t./’rftf/fpcaketh th sofallmen naturally, but David meancth ofthe reprobate & faithful,which noneA3 can6 Geds Eye from Heaven.can difccrn and fee the difference be¬tween, but the Lord-, for it lyeth hid¬den in our hearts • See what the Lordfaithby the mouth of his prophct,7er,17. 9, io. Tl* heart is deceitful!a»iwicked above all thingsy who can knowit' I the Lord (carchthe heart and trythe reins^ even to give to every man ac¬cording to bis wayes y and according tothe fruit of his works. This may fervefor a reproof to thofc that /eparatethemfelves, and think none fo righte¬ous as themfclves* that befuchastheLord fpeaks Of by the Prophet, /fat.6$. Which jay totheir brethren, Standapart, come not near we, lam holierthen thou : thofe are a fmoa{ in mywrath y an da fre that burneth ad theday, Jaiththe Lord May not the Lordb .and fuch as thofc with Hypocrifie ?y.cs;forthe A poftlt fa!:h,7^«>. 2. 18.me thy Faith by thy works •• Solwould have thefe men (hew their Reli¬gion by thcirfru'its * for you muft befuch as the Apoftlc (peaks of, r Pet, 2.Ten mo (l lay a fide all malictotfncjje,andGo is Eye from H e* vsn. 7and all and diffimulation^ andenvy, and ail evil l (yaking : pray readall that Book over, & yonQial quick*ly find whether you are Inch as youmake ihew for^ dfe pray read the x.ofPeter^ 2. and fee whether you arenotfuch as the Apoftlc mentions there ?clfc ^t. Puul to the Galatians the 5.’which if you read, you (hail fee theApoftle te\\ the Galatian/ the fruits ofthe Spirit,and the fruits of the flc(h»I defire you, and all thofe that hear orread this Book, to read thofe places ofScripture, that are here mentioned,which 're too long to be written in thisfmali Volum, there (hall you find inyour fclyes,whc:her you have the Spi¬rit of God, or the fpirit of divifion*for if ye will not look into your ownwayes, Gods Eye, which clearly feeswhat you are, will fhewto his peoplewh it difference there is between truezeal,and outward hypocrific-,forifany ‘man feemto himfelf that he is feme*whit when he is nothing,he dccievcthhimfelf in his own imagination, Gal 6.3. He8 Cods Ey e from He wen.He thatprofcflfeth himfclf to be Reli- 1gious piofeflfeth he loves you to your 1face, but hang you behind your back; Higo to hear Sermons on purpofe to pick f 1ahole in theMiniftcrs coat; in ftead ofrelieving the poors cat up the poor-, yehate drunkenn fie3bue love covetouf-neffe-, that will not hear an oath, be-caufcyou will be counted holy,yet w 1not ftick to tell a lye in your dealing,for your own benefit-,that will givefairwords in your buy ing& fcllmg>whcnyour thoughts pretend coufening andcheating, and fo ufe Religion as manya man doth a fair fuce to hide atoulskin. Our >aviour deferbes the hypo¬crites by the Scribes and Ph irifee$-,forjuft fuch were in h s time:pray read thea 3 .of M f. and you (hal ft e,how nearthey come tothe fhariftes of our times:too many fuch here in this Land therebe but Gods Eye from heaven doth alltheir attions fee I mu ft tell you, andyou ftiall find, that the Eye of God isupon allthe ad ons of men oncarth,from the Kmg to the eggar-. He hathanGods Eye from Heaven. 9an Eye in the P alace53nd an Eye in the! CottigCjin high Courts and counfels.He hath an Eye there too, and either\ guides their aftions for their preferva-1 tions, or elfe*fufFers theif unjuft deal-| ingSj till it bring them to their defola*tions* He hath a gracious eye over hispeople in their profperity, and hath amerciful Eye over them in their great-eft captivity* but we muft be ftedfaftin oar hith then,and not let profperitypuffc us up with Ecurttyjnor captivityi tnakeusdefpairof cver obtaining ourI Jibtfty* for a true Chriftian hath a -1 wayes three enemies to deal withal!,! the wod \ the fteih and the Dcvill*; and thefe shreefeek all opportunities,to lay hold and conquer. But G od1 fees the battel with hiseycofprovi-^dencef om heaven, and fo chears upthe refolutions of his Souldiers,: that though the battel be long anda continu al warfare here on earth,i yet the y ihal not faint, but (hall holdout to the end, and fhal! obtain theirreward: Therefore Ictus not bedif-inaicd, whatever befall us her , wei o Gods 'Bye from huvcn,be Chnfts Dilciples, wemufttakeuphis crofTe ^nd follow him: if we arenot wi-Uing to pa take of his fufferingshere, we are not fit to partake of hisbenefites hereafter. The Church andpeople of God hath been alwayes introuble &perfccurion ever fincc Chriftand bis Apoftkstime, they C sled theGofpel with their blood, and manyfincc the primitve rime,fign to it wit hthe fame by pcrfecutions-, and hkevvifethe Martyrs in Qaecn Murks time, andfo muft all if the Lord be pleafed to caius to it-, but the Lord bcthankefl, asyet we do enjoy the Gofpel in peace,tho we h ;ve had many enemies whichfeekro blaft it-, but this Eye of Heavenfaw their determin-arions. and quicklybrought their counfel to nought: AfJ-nyAre t! e troubles of ihe righteotuy hutthe Lord will deliver {hem out of themaII^ Pfal. 34 Through much tribula¬tion we mu ft enter into the Kingdomeof God, Ads 14. 2 2, Examples therearc many, both inthe old Tcflamcntand the new, but efpecially fincethcihall be rewarded hereafter: It we witGods Eye from Haven. npreaching of the Gofpel. Chrift^ thebeft Preacher that ever was, was deri¬ved Wy the Pharifees, when he toldthem of their covetoufnefle: St VmIhe famoufeft preacher that ever was,,cxt our Saviour, he was counted a►abler, and a peftilent fellow: the Mi-jiiftersinthe Land now, are countedio other by fomc-, nay, ifChrift andhis Apoftlcs were on earth now, theypould find the like now, and worfe :Mit this was, is, and mu ft be the con-ilisionof his Church upon earth,an af-IliAed condition.When God was ma¬ting his Covenant warn Abrah.im,ben.15.iz. A deep/Jeepfell upon himynd lo, a honour of great darknefs was'pon hin^a, fmoaking furnace, and aUnung Lamp pafsed between his fa~/tfee •, and the Lord tells him of theiondage of his Seed in £gipt, for thencouragementof thofethat will part' .nth any thing for Chrift, even theirerfecution is annexed:Chrift tellsh;s')ifciplcs, Mark 10. 2,6, 50. 'there ist> man that hath lef t, houfe, or bre-12 Gods Eye from Hexven.thrtn or Jifiers, or father, or mother,wife, or children sor lands, for my fakethe G off els, but he Jhall receive an hu,dred folds Note the words, with pefecutions too, that comes in among athofc great things that are there prcmifed* Mr. Hoofer, that holy Mart)had in his armes when he was made Bfliop oiWorceiter, a Lamb in a flamiibufli with rayes of the Sun from heven (binning upon it-,a Lamb for mecineffe in a bu(h, burning among wick«men, who ire as bramblcSjand thornburning with malicc,andyet*hc confortable light of heaven (binnes upon i»Mr. Bradford writing to the town-Walden, to encourage them to fuffe ;faith,that that Chriftianhath not leaned his A, B, C. inChriftianity.wf ,hath not learned the Letters of thCrolTe: and Luther calls a Chriftian .croffe-bearer T hey that will live Godl,muft fuff erf erfecution x Tim. 3.1A reed tbatyeelds,isnor (batteredwit'the wind: fo thofc who will betim r.fer^ ers,whofc confcicncc will bow ar.WoGods Eye from Heaven, 13ay, thefc (hal laflfer n • great matter:doved^ hh. the Apoftle, think notrange concerning the fiery try a.I,I'ct. 4.1 t.Look over the whole book: God,both theOlaandNew Tefta-cat, and confider the lives of Gods::ople,and yon ihall find them ufiiallya poor affli&cd condition. Noahsrk upon the water, was a type of theedition of the Church in afflidhons.|/hac hard things did Ahioham and■ e Patriarchsendurc in their generati-k»s ? How fore was the bondage of If.Ml in Egypt' The paflfagt throughle RcdTea, and thcdifma!! wilderncfs»Vi<! Canaan, that was a type of our af-•jfited condition in after ages. Whatlt;|rd ufage did the Prophets of thei;l'i )rd find? Elijah muft flic for his life,rile four hundred falfe prophets were#1 at ft^ebels Table: //^ was fawn„ inder: was ftoned to deathic!' Egypt: E\tkiel was flain in Babylon:kah Lad his neck broken down a fteepice: Amos had his brains knockt out.' ic perfecutions of the Maccabees, theApoftlc14 Cods Eye from HeAven.Apoftle tells you of, H,b. n Ho1they were tortured,mockcd/courgccimprrfoned, ftoned, fawn afunder^awith the fword, wand red up and dowin fheeps-skinSjand goats -skinsjbeirdeftitute,a(flidfed, tormented, wannring in dffcits, mounrams, dens, ancaves in the earth. And after, for tlChriftian church,we know that Chnhimfelf,thcgreat Leader o/bis peopl:fuffered contempts, mi/erieis, Lcornfcourges,curled; cruel fhameful deat!When tepben thefirft Chriftian Matyr was ftoned, Dorothea witneffctlthat two thoutind of t hofc that beli« ’▼ed in Chnft, were put to death tf rfame day.All the twelve ^poftlcsafomany fore and grievous afflidhons erpdured, fuffei cd many violent de3th|jfe/wonly excepted: yetfomehiftorians make mention,hc was thrown int (atun offcalding Lead, yetde'iveretby a miracle*, The ten frarfullperfcajtlions in the Primitive time, for thro:hundred years t®gether, the name of oChriftian was death: fpcatii* kin.Cods Eye from Heaven. x j<ing of the ftorics of thofc times,faith,:hat every page and leafe, is as it wereill ied coloured with blood * the Co¬venant of Grace is a bloody covenant,tooth in regard of the blood of Chrift,jirft fealing ofit, and the b^ood oftheMartyrs, adding likewife theu fcals inironfirming itj i John 5.8.7 hreebcarr \)itnefs on earthy the Spirit, Water and-yteod. The third is applyed to theMood ofthe Mai tyrs in thole times. I, ead of one S&ntiw^ on whom fuch in -(tolerableTortures were!, flitted, thatttey thought to have heard fome blaf-ihemy proceed from him, yet theymould get nothing but this,S«wCM-riantu3l am a Chriftian^at which his; erfccutcrs being mad, they claptonlatcs ofBrafsred hot to themoftten-1 cr parts ot his body,which rtmink hisody,y ct his fpirit continuedconftant:( icy let him upon an iron chair red hotnd being a whole day madeafpettade, d the people, they could get nothingut his firft confeffioa,! amaChrifti-Jn And many more fuffered: as oneRomansm*nt* who was of noble birth, yemore noble in his Marty rdom 5 for hdefired his perfccutersno' tofpare hinforhis nobility: it i s n t the blood omv progcnitors5faith he, but Chriftiai,profclfion makes me noble* then the;lanced him with knives, until the bone jappeared white, his eye lids torn wit!their nails,his hair pulled from his facethe Captain being aftonifhed at hi: lconftancy, commanded them toceaf ^from tortures:then was he brought ouand fcourged upon his old fores, hi: |tongue plucked out by the roots: th<,captain being more amazed to lee hin,remain conftant ftill ,commandcd hitt .to be brought intoprifon, and thereto,be ftrangled.Take oneexampleof a wo-,man Martyr, of which there are many ,which were very ftrong in the Chnfti-an faith: but one by name,whc ?being to be put into the fire,fpake ante.other women that fteod by,in this ma-ner • Ceafe,quoth (he, toaccufetha,,fragility of the feminine fex are noiwe made after the image of G od as we!Gcds Eye from Hedven. 17b men^ God did not ufc flerti to makeI'omcn of in token of infirmity ,we arclone of his bone, in token wc muft beprong in the living Godrwhat bloodyerfecution was there in Qneen Mames daies-, ^nd what a favage Maflacreas there in France^ in 1572. near therifoa in Lyons? the blood run reckingbrough the {beet into the river: inhii ty day cs fpace there was a hundredhoutmd poor Orphans, Widows andjccourkffe creatures, wandring aboutwithout any relief. And having (hewedrou the cruel pertecution of Godsineoplc here on earth,novvfcethe rea-ons why God < offers thofe things toall on his people, Pfal,97.i. * he Lordiignetbjet the earth rcjoyce. It is welltor h;s people that he reigneth v or elfehey could never {land, one or twoolves are ble to devour a flock oficep* whatthen would many wolv eslo amongft (heep.if thcreswerc not an>ver-ruling hand^ God orders and fill¬ers this,fo that he may turn all to His|3raifc^4«/ made havock of the churchBt> Jits >18 Cods Eye from Heaven.Atfs 8.^, 4. Therefore they thattoLfcattered, went every where PreaA-inrtkc fVord,according to the Proph}‘Daniel, Many Jhal run to and fro i 4Iknowledge fhal beincrcafed. There a; 1peers as great a power in God in prtfe iving his Church in the midft oi lmuch oppofition, as there did appci,in the pitfervition of the three Chii;;dren in the fiery furnace* the more w hare cut down, the more ft ill we are,faitiTertullian, the blood of Martyrwas the feed of the church: Pliny re¬ports, that the Lilly is incrcafed by the|ucic that drop from it: fo the Churchjwhich is the lilly that growes amongftthorns, the very blood thatfalsfromtlkm multiplies them * the fuff’eringsof one begets many to the truth. It/s areport of one Cecilia a Virgin, that byficr conftancy and exhortation, beforeand at her Martyrdonfie,was the meansto convert 400 . people. By blood and$raycr,the Church coxverts the wholeworld faith Luther. Befides, God triesPeople huffli&ions, and then theyGoJs Eye from Heaven. ip'arc like the ftarrts thatfhine brighfttem the darkeft night, Elizabeth)I vhen (lie was loekt up in clofc prifon,ufirft (he was daunted, but afterward!> he brake forth into this (peech. Theikill of a Pilot, is unknown butinatempeft^the v^lourofa Captain is un-feenbutin a battel, and the worth of aChiiftian doth not appear but m timebftryal and temptation. We read,Dewr.B. i .God led bis people through the tvii-\icmefs, to humble themy and to provei^ew.God knew before, but he wouldmake therafclvcs and others toknow.iMow having (hewed you the many ca-« ami t;es and afflidions that have fol¬lowed, and have been laid upon his'Church and People, and how Gods'tiand of providenceand merciehath led/them through all their troubles, and1rou fee how patiently they took allheir (offerings, and did as it wcreglo-y in the CrofTc of Chrift, and not likenanyin thefetimes., that if anylofsor calamities fall upon them* itmayoe in theireffcates,or imprifonmcnt,3 ct B a. readyF*0 Cods Eye from ffeivert.ready to . ry ®ut with the Pfalmift, vW*P the LorJcttft w. off for tveri anamil he be favourab e no more i Hath :■G d forgotten to be griciousi Hath he/» anger fh»t up his t nder merci s ?.Pfal. 77. A ® the Lord is in his holyTemple -, the Lor 's Throne is in Hfa*vcn^ HU eyes behold, his eye-Jids try nthe Children of men-, the Lordtrieth\\the Righteous, but the wicked and kimv>that loveth violence, the l^rd hateths'Pfal. 11. Let me tell you, God knows 1your fufferings and what youfuffer :for* if it be for his fakc,y ou arc happy, ’they are means to wean you from this #world, and as chains to draw you the ;nearer to heaven, calamity is a good rcompanion for a patient foul, he will ihelp you- call up your accounts before V!God’how you have fpent your time!1here on earth, 3 nd what cjofc fins have 1lain hidden in your hearts, which mav tt,be the caufeofyouraffli&ions, which!:;it mav be profperity wo'Vld never have ?put you in m»nd of:-have a care,be not npuft up in profperity, nor be not caft i-' » r ‘ i dowrkGodi Ey efrom HeAven. i xtj down with calamity, learn St PAuht klfon, 1 have leArned ( faith he ) t» be1 content in what (late [o ever 1 am in,I 11. Gods time is the befttimefor his peepkjjco bring them outJ of all their troubles^ HeTsmot like aJ cowardly Captain to lead you o i opendangers, and there to leave you-, n \i when you think there is no hopes ofi J relief, then God brings on his refe ve^J and leads you off with honour There-, fore let us learn now, in this time ofI breathings of his Church, to ft r ve byt; al means that lies in us by the ^fihftanceof his fpirit; to make good ulc of thistime while we have it,and k t us not bythis peace we have now, lull our fclvcs,■ in fecuri y,running on with th<" great-. |eft throng tn all manner of fin and wic-ftV, in b^ck-ftidmg andapofta-, ijicy & hypocrifie O l amfraid that fin^fljreigns much in this nation, and have acate ofthofe that fow pillowes under. four elbowes, and make you believei. foufhal be Saints if you follow them,jiind God will fee no evil in you :havc al n ^ " care.2 2 Gods Ey e fromtfe<ven.care, Gods Eye fees that his hand willptmifli in chi> Nation without repen¬tance. Can y ou account y our feives thechildren of God that delight in pridedNo,his children are cloachcd with hu¬mility. It was the example of our Sa¬viour and his Apoftles,rf you will fol- jlow him.you muft be humble & meek.Can you delight in covetoufnefie,andbe his Difciples C R emember rwho fold his Mafterfor thirty pieces.How many; have there been,and are noWjthat will do the 1 iker* Theyoung man in the Gofpel was content I:to lollow Chrift tilt he bid-him fel all ifthat he had,and follow him : I, but he (f,rhad rather part from Chi ift, then part i‘from his eftatc: So there are manyfincc thefe times began, that havegotr- i<ten fuchgreateftates, that they hadra* 1ther get more then fell thofc they have tto follow him, though they venture hrfoul and body for them 5 but if a man Igain an eftatc, a kingdome, nay the hwhole world, and lofe his foul, his lofc :is greater then his gain-,and little plea*-Ji,fur,?Gods Eye from Heaven. 2 $1 iiireforcvcrlafting forrow. But tocon-il clucff, G.odi Eye from heaven fees all■» our doings upon earthrhe fees the cru¬elty of his enemies and the fuff rings of. his people •Therefore let me defile youonce more,to remember in whofe pre-fence you are, and whofeeyeis uponyou- be not Chriftians outwardly,butiChriftians inwardly, fly hypocrific,ihate idolatiie,and beware of herefie &, !<fefirc God tokcep you in the good oldway* which Chnft, his Apoftles, andJikewiferhe bleffed Martyrs, have leftkhe fame way behind them by the rulesand Dodlrine for us to follow, being ', irmed with the whole armour of Goo,hat we may be able to rcflft in the evillay, our Joins girt about with verity.Having on the b eft plate of righteouf-:cflrc,and our feet (hod with the prepa¬ration ofthe Gofpelofpe. ee, ha ingic (heild of Faith with the helmet ofalvation, and the fword of the fpirir,hich is the word of God-, and then let5 defend our felvcs agaioft all our ene-lics, which arc, the world, theflefhand124 G*cls Eft from Hi avert.and the Devi 1, nnd let us not faint, n<be afraid, for Gods eye is upon iftf,and|will ftrengchen us,and though wchav<poverty here, we have riches hereaf¬ter-, forforrow here,'is joy hereafter,Keep me O Lord t faith David) fromthoje that have their portions in thUJife,Pja\. 17.14.Do with us whatthoiwilt here, fo thou wilt but receive u!hereafter. Give us a crown of thorihere,that we may have a crown ofgliry hereafter. And all forthv SonChrift J< fus fake, who fhcd hispr ci-ous hi >od for all thofe that wjUlajhold of him by a true ard lively Faith( • concluding with the Frophct Dattdadvice, r[*l 91 10 ret at Un-ethLord, hat evil, for hepnferveih thtfou s of hu aints: he will deliver them\ from tie hand of the wicked. Light itown for t^e righteous, and joj forth up.riht in heart. > here fore rejoice yt,t»hteo\is in 'he Lord and give thankfv hit Ml} remember anct.UNIS,