Che wicked LIFE and horrid DEATH oj'Dr JOHN FAUST US.SHEWING,low he fold himfelf to the Devil, to havedower for 24 years to do what he pleafed*I ■» mAKo the ftrange things done by him andMEPHOSTOPHILES.j'Vith an account how the Devil came forhim at the erid of 24^6313, andtore him in pieces.Stirling, Printed this prefeat Year.* • \v \I 3 )it fillA/'T H EHISTORYO FDr JOHN FAUSTU3.r ' v-:DCHAP. I. 'r Fauftus’s birth and education; with anrecount of his falling from the Scriptures.Doctor john fau^tus was.bo-nin Germany ; i is fa:hcr '-.as a pdor la-vouring man. not able to bring up his - fonjolm; but he lud a brother in ti.e famecount, y, who was a viry rich man but hadnever a-chihi,and took a gre?t fancy to his.couiin, ana he isf jived to make a fchoiar oft 4 ;him ; and in order thereunto* put him tqthe Latin fchool where he tock-his learninjiextraordinary well ; afterwards he put himto the Univeifity to ftudy Divinity; butFauftus cc u!d in no wife fancy that employment ; wherefore he betcok-hnnCelf to theftudying of that which his inclination waimpft for, viz Necromancy gnd Cor juration.and, in a little tirre few or none couiclcut-flrip him in the art: He alTo ftudiecDivinity : of which he was made Dcftorbut within a fhort time fell into fuch deefancies and cogitations, that he refolvedthrow the fetiptures frora him, and betakelhirnfelf wholly to the fludying of necrolmancy and conjuration^r.h rms and footh|faying, witchcraft and the like.•'t'tr •e’CHAP. II.How Dr Fauflus ccnjui*d up the Devil, msling him appear at his heufe.FAU3TUS whofe mind was to fludy ccnjuration, the which he follow ed i.k h•and day; he took the wings of an.eagieand endeavoured to fly over the world, to ip*and know all the fecrets of heaven an«earth ; In a fhort time he attained powef 5 15 rommanr7 tve devil to ppear ^pFore himj'hen !1f-p'eaf. ci. One t ay as D- Fiuftnswdkin^ in a wood, near *o Virfemher^,1 Germany, he hav n$ ? fr' nd v irh himaat v a? defirdus to know the do£tor7s arte defired hi n to Ur h’m re-3 if he could theand there i -pnc Mepboftop hes before him 5' wh;ch the doft )f immediately did, andt devil tipon the firft call made fuch aeife in the wood, as if heaven and earthon d have come togetf er , th n the deviltrde fuch a ro;\r:n<: as if the wood hadten furl ol wd d beads Fhe c! Ctor madecirci: t< r the dtvil, rhe which circle thervil run rou id. .making a noife as if tentpufend wr.ogon- had been running uponwed ft one Afur this i* thundered andeht; neO as d the wh h: world had been onip. Ftf.uitus an his f iend amazed at thisaiie., anc the Uevil’s Lng tarrying thought' leave ids arcle. whereupon the devilaoe him loch n ulic, the like was neverhard in the world : this foravifhed Fauflustat he Deganagainto conjure Mepholtophilesthe name or the prince of the devils, toap^ar in ms own ijkentfs j whereupon inr inftant hung oyer his head a mightypgon. 1‘ auftus calls again after his formeranner, after which there was a cry in theood as if hell had been opened, and all theI( 6 )formented fouls had. been there ;in the mean while, diking th,e devil maiqueftions.. and commanding him to fli>many tricks.&csteI 'Jr +I ^ i- +fSJi-1C H A P. liLHow Mephofiophiles came to Dr Fauftuhotde, and what happened betv/een therS^1 AU’-j TUC> commaded the fpirit to nn! him at his houfe by ten of the ciothe next day. At the hour appointedcame into his chamber, asking hauftus wfhe would have ; 'audas tcld him, it v«his will and plea fa re to conjure hint toobedhnt to him in all points of thofe atcles- viz. ‘FirO, Ihaf the fpitit fhould ferve him inthings he afked, from that tin::e tilldeath.Secondly,, Whatfoever he would have,ihouhhfcring him.1 hirdly, wh^tfoever he defired to knohe fhould tell him.The Ipirit anivered him and faxh he 1no Inch power of himfelf until he had :quainteci his prince that rul'd ever him :“ijf( 7 )laid he, *':we have rulers over us. thaf fend‘ us out, and co.nmund ush^me. when theypleafe ; and we eih acl no farther than our* power is, which";#* receive from Lucifer,v^ho you know for his pride vv-s thurft“ out of heaven But,’* faith the fpirit. " (j: am not to tv!I you any more except you” m ik’- yourf'd: over to us ”\ Whereup>n Fauftiis ! ;i i, ‘ I will have myI requeti ; hut yet l will not be damnedwt h yon " Then faid the fpirit, Y'ouf* muft nor nor (h dl not have your defire,“ and yet thou'art mine and all the worldcanno' fav.-- thee out of my hands.'* ThenLid Fau *uS •• Get thee hence, and l con-ju^e thee that thou come to me at night.**The fpifit then vaniihed, Fault«s then began:to consider ho/, he might obtain his defire,and not give- his foul to the devihAnd while F.uifus was in thefe his deviliflicogitations night drew on, and this heiiifhIptrit-oppeared fo Fauftug acquainting hinithat now h. had orders from his prince tothe obedient to him and to do for him what¬soever he defire i provided he would pro nifejto be his at d withal to acquaint h m fjrlt' what he would nave of him l Fauflus repliedthat his ciefire was to become a fpint, andthat Mephoftophiies fliould be always at hl^.command j that whenfoever he called for( 8 }lilm he fliall appear invifible to all mer:and that he fl^ould appear in what lhape hipleafed. To which the fpirit anfwered,.all his defires Ihouid be granted if he woulifi^n thofe articles, he ihould have whate^cjhe would with or alk for; whereupon DFauflus withdrew and prick'd his wrift, rccciving the b!ood in a fmall faucer, whiccooled fo fait, as ii it forewarned him of tbhellilh a£t he was going to commit; neve!thelefs he pm it over embers to warm it, anwrit as followeth :“ 1. John Fauflur, apptoved dofior of d<{ vinity, with my own hand do acknow4‘ ledge and ttfliJv myfdf to become a fervanUto Lucifer, Prince of Septentrional anOriental, and to him I freely and volurttarily give both body and foul ; in cor!“ fideraticn for the fpace of twenty-fouyears, if f be fetved in all things l fha“ require, or which is reafonebie by him tc< be allowed ; at the expiration of whic,“ from the date enfuing, I give to him si“ power to do with me at his pleafure ^ t“ rule, to fetch and carry mewhere hepleafefc< body and foul t heieupcn x defy Go“ and Chriff, and all the holt of Angei“ and good Spirits ; all living creatures tha“ be?.r his fhape, or on whom his image i“ imprinted $ and to the better flreogtheor 9 )ii'; the ralidlt/ of this covenant and firml' agreement bet veen u.> i have writ it wimt: my own blood, and fubferibei my name‘ to it, cdling.all the powers and infernal£- pv.enutts to witnds it is my true intent,c and mianinj.”JOtdN FAUSCUS.C H A. P. IV.^hat happened to Dr Faudus after the a tn-ing of ttie Arrives.^ T’dEN Fauilns Ind made an end ofhis wii ing he ciiied Mephoitophileao him and delivered h m the bond , where.Dunn tne fpirit told him, ihit if he did notspent of wh it he had cone he Ihould eejoyU the p’eafnre his thoughts could form,ad triai he would immediately divert him,rie caufed a kennel of hounds to run down| hart m the had and vaauhed : then a bull.aa:ed before Fauldus, alfo there was a lionind a heir whim fell to lighting oelbrefa u It us and the lion deitroyed me Oeitj afterhat ca ne a dragon an i ueitroye l the iio.> :And this, witn abundance ot in ue pa tine)id the Ipim prefent to the doctor's v.;v,loacluiing witn all inan ver of mud;, wi.a( IO )fome hundreds of foirlrs vhich came anddanced befoic Fauftus. After the muficwas o?er and FauRus began to look abouthim, he fuw ten fack> fuli of filver, whichhe went to eifpife of but could hot, lornone could handle it but himfell, it was fohod This paftime did fo p’eate Fundus, ttuthe gave. Mephoftophil.es the will that hemade, and kept a copy cf it in his ownhands The Spirit and Fault us being agreed,they dwdt together, and the devil was intheir honfe-keeping ; for there was never ?nythi 'g given away to the poor, whiyh befoieFaultus made this contrtct was fvtqaentl/done, but the cafe is now altered, k:, f 1 /'JWTTMmC H A P. v.How Fanil us feivad the Duke of 3avarh.A US rUS havircr fold his foul to theJf^ devil it was reporteu among his neigh¬bours, f) that none would keep him c«. mpany,but his fptt.it- which was very frequent withhim and did vvh tioe'/er he commanded him,playing nterrv t. i for to ple.de Fmilnsi.JNot far from Fauilus's houie lived the Du-uof Bavaria til D.ke oi Saxony, and the;Bilhop ot-Salizbnrghs*whcfi hcu.^s and fiiecellars iUeph eftophiies uf.d to vih', and to.bring the oejt of every tirng they had: one' -( II ).Say tha Duke of Bavaria had invited mod>t the gentry of the country to dinner,jbr who'e entertainment there was abundance)f provifion got ready: L’he.gentry being,ome . and ready to fit dovn to dinner, inun inftant Mepholtophiles came and tookway all with him, leaving them full of ad-niraiian. if any ti ne Fautlus had a mind forivild fo vl the fpirit would call'whole flocksn at a window: A!ib the Ipirit did teach,fouftas to do the like, fo that no lock nortey could keep them out. - The devil alfo' aught Fauitus to fly into the air, and to• ft many things which are incredible, andon large for this fmaii book to contain.G H 4 P. VhHow Dr Fauftus dreamed of hell in his deepami what he faw there.*A FFER. Fauflus had a long conference[4with his ipirit concetuing the fall of'L'.M.iier, the ilate and condition of all thefahen angels, he, in a viik»n«or dream; lawnell, and all the devils and fouls that werejj’oiminted there : he allb law hell dividedmto ftveral cells, or deep holes ; and forevery cell, of deep ward, there was a devilr 12)appointed to punUh thofe that were unde'ihis crftody. Having feen this fight hixnhch marv* l'ed at it; and having Mephoftejphilts wi;h him he pfeed him what fort opeop'e tiiry were that iay in the iirll dar)pit ? Mephcftbphiles told him they were thofiwho pretended themftlves to be phylician** and had poifored many thoufands* to tr;ipradicr; and now, faith the fpirit, the;have the fame adminiftered to them, as the;did to others, though not with the fame dfedt for they wi‘l never die h^re, faith he|O ver their heads was a fbelf laden witiijgallipots full of polfon. H ving pi ft themhe erme to a long entry exceeding daiklwhere there was 3 mighty crowd, he afke*them what thofe were ? The foirit tohhim they we're p ck-pocke's ; who loved ube in a crowd when they were in the o:heworld, and to content them, they put tinin a crowd there, amongft them was fotnpadd rs on the highway, and thofe of thafunction. Walking further, he law man'thoufands or vintners and 1c me mi;‘i ns otaylors, infomuch that mey could not txlj:whence to get (towage for them, a greatlnumber of paftry cook, widi peel. on thtillheads. Walking further the fpirit opeiujing a great cellar doer froin wh ch arofBa terrible ooi>e, he a(ked what they were j( *3 )iThe fpirh told him they were* witches,rand thofe that had been pretended Saints ia^ the other whor'd; but, hot» theyeid fquao-[ib!e. fight; and fear-one another! Not tari:from thbm lay the vVhoremongers and AduLefertrs, who made fu:h a ai^eous noife, th.it||he was very much it-irtied. Walking dowa'■ a few Heps he efpied an incredible number,I aimed hid with Imoke ; he afked what theyawere ? fne bpirit told him tney were millerstiand bakers ; but; good lack, what a noife'iw'as there among them ! The millers cry-tiing to the bakers, and the bakers to theUmiHers for help but all was in vain, for:1th ere was none to help them. PaHing onifarther he law thoufands of ihop iicepersofome of whom he knew, who were cor-mi nted for defrauding and cheating theirreuitemers. Having taken this project olTie’lj the opirit Mcphoitophales took ;i,oi in|his a mis and carried him boms to nis o-.vnjjh ue where he awaking, was armze-i. at[jvhht he haa feen in his dream B.nng come(o himfelf he afked the ^pirn in what peaceien was, an i who made iti1 Mephodop atesnfwcrcd, ‘Kao veit tiiou,. that befor inedi oi Lucifer, there was no heil. but up >n;s Fall, was heh ordained* As tor theiDltance of tieil. we devils do.iiot know ,t is the wrath of Goa that makes iieli lor( *4 )furious, and what we procured by our Fall;But where Hell isr or how it is governed, 1and whaifoever thou dehrefl to know, whenthou comefl there thou (halt be fatlsfied asfar as we know ourfeives.«!> > XJOOOOCOCVXXXX^XX “IS* >- C H A P. VII.Containing fome Trick of Dr Fauftus.R Fauflus having at1 iineAhis d^fire ofy his Spirit,- had now fud'power to aitor do any thing whatever he phafed ; upona time the Emperor had a de.fire o fe dm,and likewife feme of the D >cfot s tricks j:whereupon he was requtftt ' he fe.mps«-ror to do f.mewhat to mike him merry ;but the Dodtor in the mean w il loeki ground about hum. at iafi eipied a Lon! look- .ing out at a window end the l) ctorcalling his Spirit to help him h<«in an in-ft ant faftened a large p ir of om- on \»\ thfjLord's head, that he coul not ge* h healin till Fault us took he horns oil again, whichwere loon t ken iff invifib’y: t he Lordwhom Fmftu> h td Lrv.d to. wa; extremelyvexed, anti Tefo v i to be revenged 01 thedoctor, and fo hat end. lay a niiie out ofto a n-for b'auftus’s p .-.fling bv he Ik * g thatday to depart from the country j Fault us( i5 )tpming by a v?ood-fide. behsld the Lordlounted udoo a mighty waruke-horls, whoin hill drift agaiait ?aultu% wh^ oy me:lp of h’rs Spirit, took aim aod all, aadirried him befire the Emoeror's pdace#id grafted a pair of horns oa hi> aead asig asan.Ox’s: which he could never oea of, feat wore them, to his dying d ‘j.CHAP. VLI. ,How Dr Faudus eat a Load of Hay.I? Auftus, upon a t;m.\ having many Doc-L tors and M * lets '.rfs with him, went’> wdk in the fields where they met wirhrload <f hay: “fLnv now, gcod Fellow,slith Fauflus what fhnl 1 give thee to filliy belly with hav ?” t he Clown thoughte had b'esii a m » m n to talk of eating ofay told him tie ihould fill his bel1 for aenny ; to which the doctor agrei .1, anddl to eating, and quickh- aevoaring h ifne load : At which the dohid'.- companionsI.ughed to fee how limply trie p tor country:liow looked and to im r how heart! y herayed the dedfor to forbear.: Fcuitas ;dty-hg the the poor mia. w.nt away, an... n mrehe mtia got near home, ad the hay was m'r 16 )the Cart tHat the Debtor haJ» eaten, which:made the country fellow admire.C H A P. IX. *llow he ftrucka piicelof Students that wer^ifighting together blind; and how he fervcc-a parcel ot Clowns vrho were finging uacijtranting in an Inn.^H^iinteen Students nrceting wish fi-vcrfJJL more near Dr KauiLuVs houfe, fell out!extreme!), firfiin words,and a’ lafi: toblow^athe thirteen being too hard lor the feven antiDr fault us looking out at r.is window and)feemg it e tray, and how much they wertt;cvi_r matched, conjured them all blind fcthat one couiti not tee tne other ; and in thismanner they fought and fmote one another,vh'ch m ice all inat faw them l.ugh: A.tilength tn.; people parted them and lei themto .iitii c.ii-mners, they inltanrly received :ligi.t — . n„ doctor coming into*an nn withii< me tii nus wascifturbed by the h••.Mowing)a'1‘- f-awimg oi a p reel of drunken C.ownsjiwaciyupoi! when th ir mcu'hs were wideiopen i.c io‘conjured therrt that by no means*t-cy cduld Ihuc theni ag .in ■, aau fo ali on afiiouen t lit re was a deep filence j and ^.IterJthty had iiared one upon another, vithouahcxng able to fpeak, thinking th;y ware)| t *7 >(bewitched they dropped one by one away inia (linking fear,, and never could be got tothe houfe afterwards.CHAP. X.I How Dr Pauflus helped a young rr an to a(air lady.TftdF.RE was a gallant yourg gendeiinenthat was in Love with a fair 1 adywho was of p'orer perfmaye, living ?t.Wirteni' erg near the deft : r^s houfe ThisgentieiT;an had tong fought this. ladv inmarriage, I uf could ret attain his del'te,?r d hating p'setd ' hjg ; ffV ctions fo ntuc’iupon her, he v.rs ready to p‘*ne away, andhad certainly died with gri f had he notn a^e his addrtfs to the Defter, to whomhe opened the whole mattet. No feoner .hadjfhe g;er.t!en;an tol: his cat ; to the defter,rbut he told him he need not ftar. for hisidtfire (l;cu!c be (ulfiiled, and he (hould haveher that he fo much defired and that thisJjgtnt’ev om;n fhould have tone but him.which was accordingly dene: for Fauflus<o changed the mind of the damfel by hisdan.naeie practice, that fhe could th-nk ci;cethingelfe but him whom before Ihe hated ;nand l auftus’s dehre was this: tie gave hitn(n§e4-f§#§ j$i|CHAP. Xr.How D? Pauftus mace feven women dc.ncnaked m the Market place.FAUSTU: waiving in the marke'.plac*jaw feven v m-n. fitang cU in a rowfelling eggs hut -r, Ac. Of ev ■ rv one hbought iomething and departed : No fobftjwa? he gone, but all'the eggs and butt*were gone cut of their hafktts, and theknew not how. At lalt they were told, th:Dr Fault us had con jured their goods s\va>|thev thereupon ran ip:redly to the Dcdtoihouie and demanded fmsfr&ion for the|v are : Be refolving to make himfelf atthe Town’s People merry by his con juris18 )an inchanted ring which he ordeved h’irtfto put into the lady’s hmd. or to flip it orher finger which he did ; and no iooner hadfhe the ring but her heart burnt with love tchim . fhe inftead of frowns, could do nothingbut {mile upon h’m, and not be at reft ufile afked him if he thought he could lovher, and make her his wife ? He gladly anfwered, with all his heart. So they wenmarried the next day, and all by the help oDr Fauftus( i9 ^Art, made them return to th'ir b ficrts na¬ked as ever they were born • and havidanced a while in the nrrket p'?ce everyone's goods w^re conjurer; into their baiketsagain, and they fet at libertj.CHAP. xir.:How FauPius f.rved a Counfrv Fellow that' was driving of Su ine.Fan Pur as he was going to Wjrtem-JJ’berg. overtook a Country r'cllow drr.v*ng an hundred Swine, who were veryhead-Itrorg. feme, njintiiig one wav andft m another ; io tnat the driver cc'd not,tell how to get dim afong : The Do dortaking notice of it, by his conjuM g art,m de every one of them dance upon theirjltvo hind legs wirn a fiddle m one ofpi- it ore feet, and wi h the (ther fore footbl.ey phyed upon the fiddle, and fo theyidarn ed and fidd td all the vary till they camejm i Vir tmotrg m rket. J he driver ofjth m all the way danoi g before them whichm--de the people wow’e -ifttr the D dlorjn.’d fatisfied hmifeii with the fpr rt he con¬i’red the fiddles away, and the driver then.X 20 ^offered fo fale, an 1 qnirlc'v "fri'd themall, and took the morev bu: ‘ erore he wasgone ouH of?he houfe Fniiins had conjirrd'the Hogs out of tl>e Marhet-pbce and fentthem all home to :be sforefaid driver’s h.-ufe.The man that bought them feting all the.fwine gone flopped the man that fold them,and would have Ms money which he wasforced to pay, and fo returned home for row-,ful, and not knowing what to do ; but, tohis great amazement found all his fabne iatheir fives.C H A. P. XHf.He?: Hr Far,fins heran to bethink himfeii ofthe near approach of his end."pT5 Hiflus having fpun out his twenty four.1? years, within a month or two. Legs atto confide? whac 'he flould do to cheat tieDevil, but could net find any way tovent his miferabie end, which was now rearwhereupon he thus cties out to himfelf,O miferable wretch that 1. am. 1 havegiven myfelf to the Devd for a few yearspieafure. to fatisfy my carnal and devilifhdchres, and now f mu(t pay full dear ; nowmu ft l ha;e torment without any eafe rC 21 )t v?7o is m'’, for there is no help for m; : Iare not, 1 cannot lock for mercy from Godor I have ab indoned him, and have given,ayfelfio the devil, to be hi? for ever : \ndow my time is aimed expired ; I have hadiy dt fires ; my filthy lu^ts 1 have fdtisfied ;nd I mull be tormented for ever andver."A neighbour of his, a godly old manearing of his way of living, in compaffii n) his foul came to him, and with tearsefought him to have mere regard to hisrecious foul, hying before him the pro¬life of God’s grace and mercy freely of-'red to repenting Tinners ana fpoke lo feel-igly that vaultus fhed tears and promif d) try to r pent- This good man was no>oner gone but Mephoflophiles found hhienfive oc liii bed, and muttering whi t hadappened began to reproach him withreach of covenant to his lord Luther a .1ten upon ’moft twitted his nee1* behindini, widen made him cry ou; lamentably,Ihrea'vr'ing <0 rear him in pieces, uniefs herav ed hi o' ligation, which fer fear, umh *Uier M.rrov, he c id, in a manner the fame! 1 - tciiiier, which he conhrmed by thetier.How Dr Fauftus was warned of the Spiritprepare for his end.FAUSTUS’s full time being come, tftfpirit appeared to-him and. (hewed hi]his writing, and told him that the next nigithe devil would fetch him away, whitmade the dcdor's heart ake : But to divghimfelf he fent for lome do&ors and mad'batchelors of arts, and other (Indentsdine with hmv for whom he provided gre(lore of varieties, with muhc> and the likeBut all would not keep up his fpirits, fithe hour drew' near : Vv hereupon his coutenance changing, the do&ors and maftejof art enquired of him the reafons of hr-elancholinefs ? ! o which I'aufvus anfwer“ My friends, you h:ve known me thmany years, and how i have pracliltumanner of wickedness? 1 itave been a grconjurer, which dcviliflt art 1 outlinedthe devil; and alfo to obtain power to «whatever t pieafed, I fold myielt to tdevil (or twenty-sour years time j whifull time being out this night, mal es iiull of horror, 1 have called you my friencV •‘J /o fee this my dreadful end ; and I pray letjny miferable death be a warning to you11 how you fjudy that deviiifli art of of con-luring; for if you once begin it, athoufand0 one but it v.ill lead you to the devil,yhither I am this night to go, whether Idll or rA’* They hearing of this fadicrv blamed Ivm for concealing it fo long,ering him it he had made them acquaintedetore they thought ir might have beenre1 .nted, tie' told them, he had a defire:vt' times to have difclofed th:s intrigue ;Ju' the devil told him, that if he did, hejvould prcfently fetch him away : He alfobid them, ho had a •defire to join with theod’y and leave off that wicked courfe,ur immediately the devil ufed to ccmeliff toiment him. &c. ‘-But now,” faithjauftus, it is but in vain for me to ralkm what I dkl intfnd for have fol^ myfelf) the devil, body and foul ate his.” No|oaer had he fpokd thefe words, but fud-tiEn.v it fell a thundtrug and lightening,|ie like wr s never heardj v hereupon ! auftus|ent iiro the great hdl. :he doctors andlifters flaying in the next room, intending> hear his end. About twelve o’clock thebute fbqok fo tenibly, that ihey thought1 would have turn >led down upon theirbads j and fuddenly all the windows of thg'"JJ"  ^ —rhoufe were broken to pieces, as if all naturehad been changed ; fo that they trembled:and wlfoed themfelves elfewherej when upona great’clap of thunder, with a whirlw indthe doors flew open, and a mighty rufmngtof wind enured, with the hiffes of ferpents,(hrieks and cries, upon which he hmentabhcried out murder, and there was fucti roaring in the hall, as if all 'the devils in belthad been there. When day light appeared' they took the boldnefs to enter the room?and found his brain* beaten out againfl thwall/and the floor fprinkied with bloodjand his eyes tom cut, very terrible to bahold; but miffing his body, they went ifeaich of it, and found it on the dunghitmangled and maffied to pieces So endethis miferable wretch’s hie. iorfakmgand ah goodnefs, and given up his irplacable enemy, which wc hope may {tan'net only as a fearful, but lading monumeand viming to others. His mangled bod-inreip^a to his funftion, learning,^nd othfqualificationSj was decently buries.FINIS.#