iJo-. V. Price One. Penny-.Mr6; ail?■ J&MN RNOX'\ SELECTION OFAMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVEPAMPHLETS sI, COMPIJJV*?If.IVES of GREAT WARRIORS & STATESMEN,:lt-s,B^TTLBS OT? S.E3A <Sc X«ANp,I HISTORIES .of DIFFERENT COUNTRIES,l! 'ACCOUNTS OF WON B ERF IT f, EVENTS, SINGULA It|| CHARACTERS, and NOTORIOUS OFFENDERS.useful family uecf.tpt.'v cookery,- kc. See*EDINBURGH:' PRINTED FOU THE UOjQK^ET.EF R 3/i?y /?* ■''R! rdi/'e, Leiili1H-3SLIFE OFJOHJS' KNOX.t*arT:a=-. •T?f.kptie narrating t!ie principal actions in the lifeoi' this extraordinary character, rt may be useful toprefix some account of the state of religion inScotland previous to the Hefonnation.After the revival of letters in the fifteenth andsixteenth centuries, religion was one of the firstobjects which attracted the attention of mankind,and long before Luther published his theses againstthe doctrines of the church of Home, science hadlaid open the absurdity of the established super¬stition to many of the natives of Italy.The ignorance of the inhabitants of the northwas favourable to the introduction of Popery in itsgrossest form among them ; and, accordingly, thatestablished in Scotland was illiberal and bigotted inthe extreme. Doctrines and legends the most aptt.> shock the understanding were proposed withoutany disguise, and their truth ov reasonableness ||were never called in question by the people.3The profusion of the Scots kept pnce wUh-tfieli*superstition ; for at the Keformation one half of)| the lands of Scotland were the property of the| church. David I. iiad made over almost the whole> of those belonging to the crown, and Ins examplei was imitated, not only hy many of his successors,but by all orders of men, with whom the founding: a monastery, or endowing a church, was thought: to be a sufficient atonement for the breach of everyi command in the decalogue.Besides the influence derived from the natureand extent of their property, generally letorr lease,; on easy terms, to the younger sons and dependentsi of'great families, the weight the clergy had iirI Parliament was very considerable. The number||| of temporal barons being extremely' limited, andI the lesser barons and representatives of boroughslooking upon it as a hardship to attend, combinedv with the mode of choosing the Lords of the Article*Its proceedings in a great measure were left undertheir direction and control.The Lords of the Articles were a Committeewhose business it was to prepare and digest allmatters that were to be laid before Parliament.Every motion fora new law was made in this com¬mittee, and approved or rejected by the membersof it; what they approved was formed into a bill,and presented to Parliament; what they rejectedcould not be introduced into the house. This com¬mittee owed the extraordinary powers vested in itto the military genius of the ancient nobles, and inthis way not only directed all the proceedings ofParliament, but possessed a negative before de¬bate. It consisted of eight temporal and eightspiritual lords, of eight representatives of boroughs,and of the eight great officers of the crown, andwhen its composition is considered, it will easilyt( <t^IreatU' loo jn^^'«* cle^gy. f,,j j j JrfagU8 IT^iesr character al^o vyas <'eui sacrecf ? tieilliefwere they ^uhject to the sarne. ia>vp, . vipjr trjbcl Uydie eame jv^yes as ttie JtJtty. a .!<?r.;;ir|eaL>!e ia-Sfffnce by ivhich occurred on the trial of the mur¬derers of Cardinal ‘Be^top, .pae of rvhoni was apriest., He was pi^iyped, t).y, a deierrate U'om thec-erical eaurts, .aiifl exempted from the judgmentof Parliament on that account.IJy theur reputation for I.earni.n;^, they almostwholly engrossed the high op'Ic.e^pf emolumentadd.trust In the cjf hutj even tlp,5('.ns not for acting in their capacity of oonfessorf*t hey made use of all those motive? whiph operatei".ost powerfully on the luu; an mind, to promotetfje interest of the church, ..so jlftat fe.w vvere suf¬fered'to leave the world w itiiout bestowiiig.on Jicr.‘I 'me rnarkis of their libej-aUty, rmri where credpl-.ify faded to produpe t^is e^,cf, they (tailed in theaid bif1 law. (When a person di.ed intestate, Vy thett'dd Statute of William the fdon, the diffHjsral oft, s eiTect# was vested in the bishop of the diocese,rdter paying his funeral charges and debts, aiul dis¬tributing among Ids kindred the sums to winchthey‘\Vefe receptively cutitled, it being presumedthat no Christian would have chosen 10 leave tl>eworld without destining some part of his substanceto piou? purposes.) ’I’liyir courts .had like wiset he cognisance of all testamentary dee^ and mpt-rhndnial contracts, and to these engines qf powcp,and often in their hands of oppression, they super¬seded the sentence of .excommunication, whjcfh be-sides depriving tlie unhappy victim on whom itfe II of all Cbristpin privileges, cut him off fromprery right as a man or citizen. To tlippcy.auddtsei* causes of a similar riaWrc, may be ascribed.ittb poiver of tlu* Pppisti churci! ;,an<} to fl^e, also,combined with the celibacy to ci'.ieb'by the rnje -of'll their1 chbrch they were restricted, may be attri.hhted the Jissohite and iieentidti's lives of tbe’cler*gy, wTiich in the end destroyed that reputation'for sanctify the. jTeb'pft! had been itccpstoinOc] toattach to Vtieir ch’ardbter.■ According to the accounts of ‘ the i'fcfOrtri^i's^cbnHrmed by several popish writers, the rnnnhef;;'| of (he Scottish clergy vvere indteent in the e:;t'rerhe.! Cardinal .Jleatdh eelebriited the mart iage of ihti eit'est’daiightgr witb the1 son of the Ear! 6f. Craw-fohb, with an almostrejUal magnineeJicVh 6frd main-Itained a crimirta! correspondence with her motherto the- end of his days. 'I’lie other prefatlesi not more eitehipa'rly than their primate, ah'd tllO•!.fciontratst between their lives, .and those of the re,‘i|formers, failed itot to make a considerable Jmpl'e's-tibn oti the minds of the people. Inslead of dis¬guising their vices the Popish clergy affected todespise censuVe ; instead of erideavouring t'o colouVover tilt1 absurdity of the established'doctrines, dpfound them on S'criplUiv, they left them to theauthority of the church and ilt'cr&i of the ebun-eils; fWoniy apology thet1 liivc cvei* been ablejeven to the present Viay, to'offei- for the monstrousabsurdity of their sysfein. Th^ duty of preachingwas left to the lowest and tiibs£ illiterate of the' htonks.'i The following anectlbte‘Vnl! gite a live,! v Idea OfI their nitide, of preach?ng“.Tije prior of tileBlack Friars at'Newcdsfje, iii a Lennon at St Ah-I drew^j asserted tbtit the PateVrioster should'bb s'iiid'to God, only ami not the saints. This'ddctriYi'iAot me'etioT the uppr'o’xttibh of LiVd Ictarii'ifl’bf thatCity, (hey appointed a Gray Frad-tc*> refute it, whoifilUst’for thi^tesl, <* AWtffr pSof'irl 'sj’lifit,'”6which he illu-rtr.Ue J in ibis m.-Mitier. SeeiHg wesay, good day, father, to any old man in the street,we may catl a saint pater, who is older than anvalive; and seeing they arc in heaven, we may sayto any of them, “ Our father who art in heaven ,seeing they are holy, we may say, “ hallowed bethy name;” and, since they are in the kingdom ofheaven, may add, “thy kingdom come and astheir will is God’s will, “ thy will he done ;” hutwhen he came to “ give us this day our daily bread,”he was much at a loss, confessing it was not in thepower of the saints to give us our daily bread ;“ yet they may pray to God for us,” he said, “ thatlie may give us our daily bread.” Tue rest of hiscommentary being not more satisfactory, set hisaudience a laughing, and the children on the streetscalling after him. Friar Paternoster, he was somuch ashamed that he left the city.The only device by which they attempted tobring back the people to their allegiance was equal¬ly unfortunate and imprudent; they had recourseto false miracles, which the vigilance of the refbrrmers detected and exposed to ridicule. The bare¬faced impositions that were practised by the monkson the credulous, are almost inconceivable.—Amongother customs of those times, it was common forthem to travel to Home and come home laden withrelics, blessed bv bis holiness, dispensations for sin,by which they wheedled the credulous out of theirmoney. One of these, on a holiday, endeavouringto vend his wares to the country people, amongwther things shewed them a bell with a rent in if,possessing the virtue of discovering the truth orfallacy of an oath ; for, as he pretended, if any oneswore truly, with his hand on tlje bell, he couldeasily remove, it,, without anv change; but if the.oath was false, his l;and would stick to it, and the[beil rent asunder. A farmer, rather more shrewdthan the rest of hi*, auditors, suspecting the truthi! of this assertion, asked liberty to lake an oatli inilthe presence of those assembled, about an affairwhich nearly concerned him. The monk could noti re fuse ; and the farmer addressing the crowd, said,k‘ Friends, before I swear, you see the rent, howlarge it is, and that I have nothing on my (ingersto make them stick to the bell.” Then laying hishand on it, he took this oath—I swear, in thepresence of the living God, and before these good[people, that the pope of Rome is Antichrist, andthat all the rabble of his clergyj cardinals, arch¬bishops, bishops, priests, monks, with ail the restbf tbe crew, are locusts come from hell, to deludeidle people, and to withdraw them from God ; morc-•inver, I promise they will all return to hellandijutiug bis hand he added, “See, friends, I haveffifted my hand freely from the bell, and the rent isIjpn larger, this sheweth that I have sworn the truth.”The cause of reformed religion, was powerfully(supported by the ambition of tbe Queen-dowager,||Mary of Guise.) After the death of James V.her husband, the Earl of Arran, was appointed Re-jfcent of the kingdom during the minority of her[daughter; and from that situation she wished to ex-jl lade him, that she might enjoy the first honours1'f the state alone, and promote the designs of her! anthers upon Scotland. For this purpose she ap-■lied to the favourers of the Reformation,, as beingIhemostnmnerousof the Regent’s enemies, andfprm-ng a respectable body in the state ; and althougher promises of protection were insincere, they, invery considerable degree, abated the fury of per-ecution.John Knox, who contributed so much, both byrecepl and example, to work out the Reformationfinishing'oni*!^choo?, he vrkS n*movcdf to St Anditfe’-j, to toni-plete in's studies uodtT the eelebratod John alijir;by whose insti‘(ieh;)t'm he mttcie such process that,:he received orders hefbie the tiirte piescrihctl fiy the +.J ules of the ehuirh. After thi^, lie quiru'd schol-Ssiie rearbitisv so much in repfit^tinn at tHbf beHotl,,*.,and afppKed hii:. Adf with chii*;dnce to rfib ’ mfcfliig:of t4ie {hthers of fhe cliurch, pflrtieulariv St Augus- ■,h ofonttine, frum wliidt,’ attending the preUcfftiThomas EuiHrini, a;B!icK Tn'dr. and the' aittversa-Jdon et Mr G'^drge Wi hart, a celebdated vefotiher,:whTocarfte t’rom England in tSio with the conunis-sfoilersr Sent by Hbiiry VIII. to chn^hide a, tferttv*with the Earl of A:ran, after did deitli of .laittelV..he attained, a more .brdhjary decreeof!^erlptural knowledge, and eitlitvly renounced theIteiiian Catholic rcligiub.Oh leaving Sf Aitdrew's, Mr Knox deled nslibtorto the sons of Douglas of Lbngniddrv, arrdl.C’orklHirM of Orndhtort, whofn, bt^ides the difterentlbrant’hes of eommod edu'c«tibn,'hecirreftilly instrnc-Ited in the printiples of the fefbrmed religion, hav'Jnig fcoinpbseil a. cafecliisin for their use, besides read [hi^' leblwres to them on various portions of the^eiipturds. In this practice he continued ti'li E .s-ter 15IT, when, wearied out by the repeated per'-1sebtitions iff Cdrdina! Seaton, he left Longmddiyi|for St Andrew’s, resolved to visit (iCrtnaliy, thefitate of Eh'j|ten<J proving unfavourable to his vierfsiAgainst taking this t^ep, however, Ire was pfcrsuddrted by the gentlemc'n of whose children lie had tl «j|charge, and prevailed upon to remain in S'f Ah']dt’fcWs, tlie eiistlf of ttiW plabc 'bdihg-ir: tbd h'affd;Af 't^nnh i ' ' c t . 'n/.fHere lie boatitideS faf t#bc!i Ins pupils in the m*I ini tt'.^noer, hlii bin jectuPee were now attemierl bv':|,‘nuirtber of people b^l^nging' fe> the .tr»wr>, trka' amefttlv intreat>ed him to preaiti in pubiic.. 'Uhi»n'?lv lie at hr^t fielin«d< bot afterwards accepted aalMioro the p'idpit, and in liis. verv first sernn'ondiscovered such zeal, learning, and iutrepkifty, asvitieed the prudence oi' their ehoice, and h »w am*heritlv qualified he was for 1 He.'discharge of thosetuties. rhis success djused svadi alimn among.ihejiMpish derby. that a* letter was sent to the -'sub*?rior, by the abbot of Paisley, natural brother of thelleger.t, who hadfbeen nominated to the archbisb-ipric reproving him for his nicgUgetwe, in .allowing .itch doctrines to be taught wi'taaut . oppds’iUofe),k meeting of the olergv f»*a» held its con^qwtacc;;:ind every schoow :tftey- conWf dferise put in practice »p hurt Air Knox's usduinefes; but, in a'publicdisputation-, be replied’to. alt their orgumcnM witha much acuteness as completely to silence them,. >b' nd igai ned many pi osely tes, who made prefassion qffesCir* faith bv pa ids King of the eoemundon openly,Wiich lie was (he fir-. t 'to administer iti; lUy ijyiqnef• •radioed at preseot. id »dl qt aaidIS ' This success was not-uf itmg.duration, for .a body,*J*f French troops 'was seat to besiege the castle,lit das compelled lu-Mirrender on the. f!3d July, /ivhen ho, along with .the garrison, was sent prison-fHt to France, and confined in the gal lips tfil theWear 1519. On.obtaining his.liberty hp.r^tired t,qi England, y5l1pre .be preached saineiime at 1’pnv.ieif.,derwards at SotreaMlb■ dtul Londqn, and wqsat .liast ohoscp qne of1 the itinerants appointed by did*rsvard V l. to preach the Protestant doctrine throughipngland. Upon the dealh of that prince, on thejith ,1 ulv, f rfCb he went to Geneva, whpre he ye-lij.dad when he was chosen by the ftngiish yliur^fi10 .akTi’anlifort, mi tUs 24il» Septemher, la#4, tqfeetheir pastor, :t situation Ite accepted by the adviceof the celebrated John Galvin, but which he didnot dong enjoy, for having opposed the introduc¬tion of the English liturgy, and refused to cele¬brate the communion according to the forms pre¬scribed by it, he was deprived of bis office; and,such was the malice of his enemies, that, tithing ad- ,jvantage of a passage in his “Admonition to Eng- jland,” wherein he compares the Emperor to Nero,and the Queen of England to Jezebel, they ac¬cused him to tile magistrates of treason. Thesegentlemen perceiving, the spirit bv tv Inch his ac¬cusers were actuated, found means to apprise himof his danger; and on the .‘dfkh march, 1J55, beleft Frankfort for Geneva, form whence be pro¬ceed to Dieppe, and shortly afterwards to Scot¬land, where he arrived in the month of August.On his arrival he found the reformers much.in¬creased in number, and after assisting them torectify some errors which had crept into theirpractice, accompanied John Erskine of Dun tohis seat in the Mearns, wlicre he continued amonth, preaching to the principal people in thatcountry. He afterwards resided at Calder-house,the residence of Sir James Samiilands, where fiewas attended hy a number of personages of the |first rank ; and, among others, by the prior of StAndrew’s, afterwards earl of Moray. During the |.winter he ybiited Edinburgh; preached in if mayplaces of Ayrshire; and in the beginning of 155(i, j-at the request of the earl of Glcncnirn, atlminis- jitered the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper to his jlordship’s family, and a number ol friends, nt his. jjseat of Finlayston.In this way did Mr Knox continae preaching,sometimes intone place, and sometimes in another,.11wiien his autcasa rTciteil ^ci murli attention thatthe Popi&h ciergy summoned him to appear beforethem, on the 15th of May, in the church of theBlack Friars in Edinburgh. He did appear, butattended by such a number of followers that theclergy deemed it prudent to desist from their in¬tended prosecution"; and that same day he ad¬dressed a much greater audience than ever he haddone on any prior occasion, and continued to doso for ten davs. i'V .c-novd ift-ffp'itsu? owlThe earl of Glencairn, one of his firmest friends,having prevailed on the earl Marshal, and MrHenry Drummond, to attend one of Mr Knoxessermoris, they were so highly gratified with it thatthey persuaded him to address a letter to theQueen, in the hope she also might be induced tohear the doctrine of the reformers. In this letter,contending for the truth of what he taught, hesays, “ Albeit* Madam, that the messengers ofGod are not sent this day with visible miracles,because they teach no other doctrine than thatwhich is confirmed with miracles from the begin-« V . oning of the world, yet will not he (who hath pro¬mised to take charge over his poor and little flockto the end) suffer the contempt of their ambas-sage to escape punishment and vengeance, for thetruth itself hath said, ‘ he that heafclh you hearethone, ami he that corttemneth yon'cohtemrteth one.’I do not sp<*ak (into you, Madam, as P&squilltvsdoth to the Pope and his carnal cardinals, in thebehalf of such as dare not utter their names, but1 come in the name of Christ Jesus ; affirming,that the religion ye maintain is damnable idolatry,i which I offer myself to prove, by the most evi-i dent testimony of God’s Scriptures ; and in thisW quarrel I present myself against all the Pajrists inI the realm, desiring no other armour but God’s12fertf Hberty, of ray tongue.' it'Wi%* 4eli«refi <t,p thfliQw,fPn.;j^r. the .earL of Glerii 1and fry .tor-to Glasgow-, (ne*jRfrew^.pCjGaadinal PBed.ton) writb;this-ofr9errationv*\ Please you, my lord, to read & pasqdiltf whichfining tp tfr? ears pf Mr Kook, tvfes-the iocesHiianqf. his oiling & nwmbttr of additions when' tfre^tjer was-panted afterwards at Gaheva. ^-yilthis time .he reaeived letters from, the Eog-»lish church at Geneva, which had aeparaied fcotathe one at.J'rofWdrt, commanding him, “inGpdls. name; a,s he was tlieir chosen pastor, .tor^'-aiy to them fpr,;,their comfort.7i iHavingjgffpfh?fj; |a' ailriost everv:congregation ho hadformerly visited, and sent bis n-ih' ard moii'.M--iri-hfin to Xiileppo^ ho .atsiied from Scot-d^dj'Oithe sfliontfi ftf Jtdy fqr Geneva. No sooner.frpd fre loft, it bp Kmgdom .than the bishops! sum.imopcd him -to answer, a charge of horery-t .and,.99 his .noip-^ppearance, frurot him in edigv.at tii*yr^ss nofi jFdinlnirgh• Against this s.etitencn, in■Ifr&Sti h$, puWis.hgd his i“ appeilaticm,” addressedtp:,fhe «< Ndfripty! and Estates df Scotland.’’ ,Jntfris, comp<)ftitjon„ , wiiicli has heort-imuch adrhiredj ;Jtfterfappofiling '‘to a;lft»f'd and feenefhl eourtcihY9(tijd-. rpqsklRg - of- thnm, that defence- w.idcih, as >.pyi-ppet •of/the people, they .woreabound to igivahim, hfli adds, ,‘f these tfriftgs require I of yourfrnr.our? to be granted upto/uw, V!2. tiiat the doo tdri-np \yhiojj our adversaries' condemp fry' iieresy Ifn^y bp tried fry, the plain and, simple word; of.Gfidi iiU»af< ,the, j;ist defences he admitted to us HWttUstJHsdn the battlft aghinpt tfrd. pestilent frat> J|t|e of Antichust ; and that thfirrfra ientohrbd I.fr^m,ijudgment in our causey. sepingMtrfr.al our ad* |;cu?4ti(}iV i^'.n'ot iotJiodpd agtMnst any onq pahtouiar ttpyM^nffrtd against jthttt wltoitf .hi.dgt’bmi wnich we »udeufef Wot *to pfove to If'poorer"usfitped:afgaiKk'i‘against his cdHMriattdmeAts:, itAdraglffrtijf‘tii'e-«i«?dinali<Jhdrof Gferis?i:iTfeldf>;0 4Stabi?$betf !iiW fjlMei«u»di by his chief apostles ; yea, • \re doubt nrtfto-prove‘the km^tiom of-the Pdp^WW¥H0donT atnJ povrdp'of Antichrist^ bfld hWfiords),i4)'<wirt»t fcrttdl, ty&fffleUfWfolyto require oP ynti that the matter rtwiy-'ctHne" toeKiinii«Rtihn, ad?! that ye,: the estates 'of 1 liei.y your authority, compel such as will he calledbishops;-.nfet oialy to desist ftohi'their crtiel ¥h^V3derin>r of sucH a<CdtTt study to prlWrtote ©dfl’sin detecting and (lise'osin" the damnable impietyof thtf&'lmrfi&fo|iri‘ the'1 lilomanalso, that- ve cOmpel 'them Ho answer to 'sheircrimes as shall he laid to't'fteir fcHar'ge* : for n&tfrighteoHsH'1* Inputting tlife flock hohittfitted totheir dare. _ • rq tnfi • ! Sdl In ■jonannaCTOii SntIn March, hifl?, Seiwibfe’of Ms:<ntpbrtht>dti,'a-loiter, suhsCrUuid ©Ihticairnf Prshine, Lord, andJames Stuart, -vVas transmitted Ho ‘ Mr Kridx at'Geneva, entreating him to return home to betheir teacher. 'Having communicated its cdttffehWto his congregation, for yvhich he provided turWlrerminister,,and taken the advice of>John Calvin, ahdother mimster^Hae rOt (iht for Scotland ; but Obi.his arrival at Diopjae;1 letters met him requestinghim to remain there, owing to the falling off ofsoma from the caitsCi alarmed at the danger to1which' they were: exposed. 1 m.1iAddrossiti^ Wtnsqlf)fo the'lofdvwho had inviled'h.s IfeturH, Mr M-iuP them on1their radi and unadvised IcHnduct. as hfeVihg'cWtendency, to cause both them and Him to he OVil'spoken oh—“ For either*,'’ said he, "> it shall appearthat. I was marvellod't vain, being so solicited,where ho necessity required, or-alsei-that such as*14were, my moy/rs thereto Jacked th? ripeness ofjjjdgment in their first vcteation.” Along withthis letter he sent one to the whole nobility, andothers to particular gentlemen, advising them inwhat manner they ought to proceed. On theirreceipt a new consultation was held, and a bondsubscribed at Edinburgh on the 13th December,l.i57, whereby they agreed to “forsake and re¬nounce the congregation of Satan, with all thesuperstitious abominations and idolatry thereof.”From this period those subscribing, and their ad¬herents, were known by the title of the Congre¬gation. Previous to this agreement, however, anumber of letters were sent off to Mr Knox, andto John Calvin, that he might use his influence inpersuading him to return.This year (1.558,) the Queen-Regewt, throughthe concurrence of the Protestant party in Parlia-ijient, obtained an act to be passed, conferring, thematrimonial crown on the Dauphin, the husbandof her daughter, the unfortunate Mary. They hadbeen induced to forward her views in this favouritescheme, that they might obtain from her an ex¬emption from that tyranny with which the ancientlaws armed the ecclesiastics against them, and en-jjjy the free exercise of their religion. No sooner,however, bail she obtained the gratification of herw ishes, than the accomplishment of a uew scheme.,the placing her daughter on the throne of Eng¬land, and to which she had been prompted by theambition of her brothers, the princes of the houseof Lorraine, at that time in the plenitude cf theirpower at the Court of France, rendered an unionwith the Catholics necessary. It was vain to ex¬pect. the assistance of the Scots Protestants to de¬throne Elizabeth, whom all Europe considered asthe most powerful defender of the Reformed faith:v>>lio therefore began to tr^at theni with coldness,and contempt, and not oply approved the decree^of a conv(x,ation of the Popish clergy, in which theprinciples of the Rd'ormation were eomlemne*!, bptI at the same time issued a proclamation enjoining;the observance of Easter according-,to the ritual? of.the Romish church. ; yAlarmed at these proceedings, and still more atan order summoning all the Reformed clergy in thekingdom to attend a court of justice at Stirling, onthe 10th -May, l5/>9,.the earl of Glencairn, andHugh Campbell of Louden, were deputed to waiton her and intercede in their behalf., On urgingtheir peaceable demeanour, and. the purity of theiudoctrine, she said, “ In despite qf you, and yeforministers, both, they shall be banished out. ofScotland, albeit they preached as. true as ever didSt Paul.'1 And on pleading her former promisesof protection, she. replied, “ The promises ofprinces ought not to he too carefully remembered,nor the performance of them exacted unless it suitstheir convenience,”Perth, in the .meantime, having embraced theReformed religion, added to the rage which agitatedthe Queen against the Protestants, and she com¬manded the provost (Patrick Rnthven) to suppressi rdl their assemblies. The answer of this gent le-l man deserves to be recorder! for its manly freedom.^; “ I have power over their, bodies and estates,” said.1 he, “ and these I will take care shall do no hurt ybut have no dominion over their consciences.”The day of trial now approached, and the town ofDundee, and the gentlemen of Angus and Mcarus,in conformity ol an old custom which prevailed iij.Scotland, resolved to accompany their pastors tothe place,of trial. Intimidated by their numbers,though unarmed, she prevailed on John Lbsiune -10rtf Dun', ii’pcrsirtn of gfeat influence Uh;I!!‘to stop' theiw from advancing nearer to Stirling,w^ll&she, dA ffet‘p#rt, phiriiised to taf 'e nb furthersteps towards the intended trial. This propo'f-tirttr was iistehed to with pleasure, the’preaehe>sadd' some of the leaders remained at Perth, andthe multitude quietK-.dispersed-to their respectiveH&rfdfc ‘‘‘v '?r3'‘‘‘Ndtu-Ithstanding this promise, on the 10th May,the ■ <pVeeh' proceeded to 'thb trial of the personssummoned; 'and; ’ori their failing to appe-nr. sen*-fence of outil^wry v.r> prdnou'nccd upon them.-This Ojicri and avowed breach of faith addedgfeht’iy to the public irritation, and the ProfedtantsBaldly prepared forJ their defence. Mr Erskinehaving joined hi^ assbeiatc -' at Pdrlh, his reprebett-tation of the Queen's irrccdncilaBle hatred so-dn--flamed the people,' that'Scarcely the authority ofthe magistrates, or the exhortations of their preach*,ers, cotild prfeveiit-fhrfn from proceeding'to acts oifviolence. * j: ...o ra . . ..:na* ..r, _ ... tAt this juncture, IVIr Knox landed in Scotlandfrom France, and, after tesUling two days in !5am-burgh, joiiigd his bretihx'ndn Perth; tllat he mightaid thetti in tireir cause, -and-gftte• MS confessionalong, 'with theirs. On the 11th1,' the'day' atiyr the1sentence of ouftldivify was prononhceil. lie Made avehement discourse ttgabrst idolatrv, and ivfavfe theminds of the people were yet in a state of agitation,from the hftpress'ron fhtide-Upon them fey his ser¬mon, a 'pri'est prejiared to celebrate mass, whichmade a youth tibserve, “ This is intolerable, thatwhen God in iris word hath 'plainly condemnedidolatry we' shall stand and see it used in dfespiteTThe irritated priest stnrck him a blow on tilt? ear,and the vrtlrth rn revenge threw a stone at him,which broke an image of onp of the saints; ThisITwas the sign;;! of tumult, and cre tin das s hadelfi^SBOV all tho chuyche«- and cbhfetits alVovit Verthvit¥e destroy id Such Was the ahger of the QiSeinon receiving this intelligence, that she avowed toreduce Perth to ashes, and ordered M. I/’OsSa!,thi' edttitUah'dyr of a corps df French auxiliaries, attfi&t- tithe in thd service of Scotland, instantly tdrftadflly 'Antf'c*- ry her threat^' into execution. Bblftpartitfs!, hoWever, were desirdus of accormnoqalHSthand a treaty wds Concluded, in which it'was fetmfj,-Isted that the twd t nfies should be disbanded, thegltt^sr of 1 *ertli set open to the queen, but that no ridof her French soldiers bliotdd. approach withinthree miles of Uini city, and that a Parliaifihntshould be ini mediately held to settle the vemaihingdiSerencts.No sootier were tht Protestant forces disbanded,than the ^jueen violated every article of the treaty.In consequence of which the earl of Argyll*, ‘andthe prior of St Andrew's, who had been her corn-missieners for settling the peace, with some othergentle'nvefi, openly left her. Having - warned thfeeonfeclcrutefe of her intention to destroy St Aii-dfew’s and Cupar, a considerable - army was soonaf^eriililed, which assaulted CraiI, Orhkc down’thej altars rthll images, and proceeded thence to StAndrew’s, where they levelled the Franciscan andEtetoinicari irionesteries to the ground. The Queenirnmidiiitely gave orders to occupy Cupar, withthe intention of attacking them at St Andrew’s,but in this she was anticipated, an army, equal1 tpher own havihg occupied the place tWd days be-'fore. Finding'herself tod weak to'ehcounter them:ri the she had again recourse to negotiation ;hi/r nfundfid of Her former' duplicity, the Protes-tan'fi, wdnkl' drily agree (H a truce ior eight days,,bv wdiA-lr th#> HsHfekyf Clrit^ihehtldt 'rthcl D'Ossflif18became bound to trausport all die French soldiersto the other side ot the Frith, and send commis¬sioners to St Andrew’s with lull powers to concludea formal treaty of peace.,Several days elapsed without any person appear¬ing on the part of the queen, and suspecting somenew plan t© entrap them, the Protestants, afterconcerting measures to expel the French garrisonfrom Perth, wrote to her Majesty, complainingthat the terms of the lirst treaty were still unful¬filled, and begging her to withdraw her troops fromthat city in conformity with its stipulations. Theirletters remaining unnoticed, they laid siege toPerth, which surrendered, after a feeble resistance,on the 20th June, 1559;-Being informed that the Queen resolved to seizeStirling,. ruid cut ofi’ the communication betweenthe,reformers on the opposite sides of the Frith,t.v a rapid inarch they frustrated her plans, and inthree days, alter they had made themselves mastersof. Perth, the victorious reformers entered Fdin-bugh. The Queen on their approach retired toDunbar,—where she amused them with hopes ofau accommodation, in the expectation of beingjoined with reinforcements from France. Intelli¬gence, in the meantime, wps received of the deathof the French king, which, while it was favourableto the.caase of the reformers, j-endered their lead¬er^ more negligent and secure. Numbers of themleft the city on their private affairs, their followerswere obliged to disperse for want of money, andthose who did remain were without discipline orrestraint. The Queen having received advice ofthis, by naans of her spies, marched w:iti; all theforces she could muster directly to Edinburgh, andpossessed her? If, on the !i5lh of July, of I.eith.y'he consented, however, to a truce, to continue till19the 5th January 15C0, by which liberty of c®n-Kcicnce was secured, Popery was not to be esta¬blished again where it had been suppressed, the re¬formers were not to be hindered from preachingwherever they might happen to be, and no garrisonwas lo be stationed within the city. These termswere preserved tiil she received the expected rein¬forcements, when she fortified Leith, from whichall the effort* of the reformers were unable todislodge her troops. A mutiny also breaking outamong their soldiers for want of pay, and havingbeen defeated in two skirmishes with the French 'troops, it was resolved, by a majority of the lordsof the congregation, to retire to Stirling. Thisrash step was productive of great terror and con¬fusion, and contrary to the advice of Knox ; who,notwithstanding, followed the fortunes of Idsfriends, animating and reviving them by his dis¬courses, and exhorting them to constancy in thegood cause.At a meeting held shortly after their arrival atStirling, it was resolved, to dispatch William Mait¬land, who hfid lately deserted the Queen’s party,to England, to implore the assistance of QueenElizabeth ; and n treaty was at last concluded, by'which ajrody of troops was sent to their assistance.These being joined by most of the Scottish nobuhty, a pcape w.as established on the Sib July, 15G0,by which the reformed religion was fully establish¬ed in Scotland.On the abolition of Popery, the fona of churchgovernment established in Scotland was, upon themodel of the church at Geneva, warmly recom¬mended to Ins countrymen by Knox, as beingfarthest removed from all simfaiity to the Romishchurch ; and at his suggestion, likewise, the coun¬try was divided into twelve districts, for the morem<^ctiidl!y pvopjgutitVg i^e-doctriiYcs of* the Refop-lir'itfoi'y, of' vi’trtcii EdYuburgh Was assigned to hi a |cafe. Itninx; a-3M^'d by 'hn; brothctfn; afterwardscomposeJ a CobfUssidn of’ Fnitii, dtiti complied th\ifirst'bHbks of dis&ipiine <bv the gpWetflmeht'df thfe j)clicrch. Tfiese' Uci'd laiihed by a convention ofheitl to the begtonin^ of tftfc fbftowingVettr (I Bb'i)? and an act passed proi/ibrting maiv,knd' abdliishing the1 aufhoYifv bf-the Pdfto. -0!i the letiu'n of Mafy, daughter of Mfify ofGuise, ffotii Fraiice'/atid-'Sb' well kiio\v‘n aftciavirds jfhrdiighdut all Europe for hef feefcitlty,' her atoonivpUshhien'ts, api lier misfdrltints, • dfti-e'r ‘the • d&uhof ber hUst-jan'd**Fraiitfe II., thti helehfdtion of massnV the chapel royal excited a great! tttfffidt,' manycrying out, idolhtrOfis papists shall the th-Jde&th, aiccordhig lO God’s law add John Xriox,in a sermon prOahhed the Sunday following, afterShowing the j\tdgments inflicted oh datums lopiciolatrv, added, “one mass is more fe&ffid to me<han if thn'thdutiatid armc<k Joemies wei^1 landed inaliy part df the rcalirlj of purpose to Suppress tlicWhole rchgion;”' Id colisetfuence of ttiis languagelie was sent for bv tiie queen, who acvllfeed him bfehdeav’ourihg (o excite tier subjects to rebeHum, »f .having'written against her lavviul autlidrify., and ofbeing the cause of great'jleditidif, To this fie tm-swered, among other th'ihgs, “■ that if td teach theword of God iw sniceritv,' if to rebuke idolatry^and to will a people to worship God according tohis- word, be to r^ise siibjcots'ttg'aingt th^ir'priiiees,thdni c'annot 1 be'excused; tor it hadv pfeastSi Godto his' inerty to make' me one tonong&t many tddisclose unto thib icahv> the vanity of the pdpisticalreligion.—And toucliihg that bhbk, Mint seemeth 'sobighlv Id otfbnd'yotlr mitjeMy, it is iiiVisi certato |)that if I 'whbto it •1‘ttto <11)81 nil 1 the ieurnid j|IV.r Uv1 <>j i4f:> MysKojx-.b.5jv> •<>«£ ye tlefiif; tj;>t .yyiir kin^ w^h li-.o blo^tot' tljio paitifs of Cio;], tliiil-nyUher I;/n<»r tiwt.ffr# eiiller hurt, you or your Ristuprity ; tor, in)>ary- rlp6^, M^daio, .ihftt borjk n-ag;. vfrUtcin liLPityf>ppcia’dy ayr^nst tlia,!, wipk«d Many pf .Spg/atfiK.’’-To a qupsuon by tup Queen, if sqbkcts, j IWWj?!po^’er, may re.sist tUeir pfipcep f H-e bpbil v an-iwjerojtji. t’oey mi»ht, tf if. princes- do efcctjfd theirbounds/' The &llovying part pf. tlie dialogue w-uigiyp.9 good idea of tiie..c!i,'ir«ctsr of ap/f-tbcfreedom of bis speey.h ;3peaki.ng of tb^jehurcb,-tbe Queep ob,figA'vPd> ‘‘but y^nije.nwt.tqe chqnpb.that I wjilj yo^rigl> *f I vvijl, dpf^.ldj1'15-? chiuch 'ofRome. Iqr I tlvinlc it is the i.rue ebiU-cIi pf Q-r.d. ’“Your will, ; said h?, “ b no reason ;ilOjeither dt<tb.,yoiii- tltpughl intakeiioma:} h-sr-iJot; to by thq iimurieubite spoijse oi’ Je^ir? f’lirir;,..And wv.uper not, I bat I erif .Epoi** an.bajlob bw that church is attp^U?or poilut-’d .jyb.btSail kinds ,of spfrj.bial lorpipatipii, «vji in d^U K-yips .in. manners." He bad afterwards two ode rllconfcreuca? will} .tbo queypT qt. thy l;j^t of .p-bi.c}).ifshp burst into tep??, crying out, fqNpvgr prince(Was uspd ys J. a;ni.",Ruox’s situation bc^jupy a-jery: eijfiiqal in Aprjb|d.57|, when Kircaldypeifeiv-e^ the Hamiltons, withi jubevr .forces, into tUq^cpsfclp,, Then]; ipygfer.i-y■ i-iainst him was• so great, that bis friends werebbiiged to watch his bouse during the night. Theyproposed forming a guard for the.protec;ipp;of hp! jerson when he went abroad ; but. the governor ofi he caRtio fqr-ba.de this, as implying ? Mi.spicipg ofaim, and offered to^end hieb.d., one of his qfdcers,p couduct hitn to ap4:5’9Sn;f»{iyrab- “ He .void.:: 5if;thy wydderj Hgjfli jdflJiT]uxiased by the appprtnmty of the citb'-ens, 'tCir-2?.cnkly applied to the Duke and his party for aspecial protection to Knox ; but they refused topledge their word for his safety, because “ there |were many rascals and others among them who |loved him not, that mbdit do him harm without iotheir knowledge.” Intimations were often given |jhim of threatening.? against his life ; arid one even- !ing, a musket ball was fired in at his window, and j.lodged in the roof of the apartment in which hewas sitting. It happened that he sat at the time |in a different part of the room from that in which 1he had been accustomed to take his seat, otherwise |the ball, from its direction, must have struck him.Alarmed by these circumstances, a deputation ofthe citizens, accompanied by his colleague, waitedupon him, and renewed a request which they hadformerly made, that he would remove from Edin¬burgh, to a place where his life would he in greatersafety, until the Queen’s party should evacuate thetown. But he refused to yield to them, appre-hending that his enemies wished to intimidate himinto flight, that they might carry on their designs,more quietly, and then accuse him of cowardice.Being unable to persuade him by any other means,they at last had recourse to an argument whichprevailed. They told him that if he was attacked,!they were determined to risk their lives in his de-;fence, and if blood was shed in the quarrel, whichjwas highly probable, they would leave it on hishead. Upon this he consented, “ sore against hiswill,” to remove from the city.In May, 1571, at the desire of his friends, and focjjgreater security, he left that city for St Andrew’s.*!where he remained until the August following. Thencause that forced him to change his residence hav¬ing ceased to operate, at the express desire of biscongregation he again returned, but could not longcontinue to preside over it. on account of tiie ex¬hausted state of his health; and, on the 8th No¬vember, admitted Mr .Tames Lawson, forinerlvprofessor of philosophy at Aberdeen, to he hissuccessor.From this time until the 24th of the samemonth, when lie expired, about eleven o’clock atnight, in the 67th year of his age; his principal, employment was reading the Scriptures and con¬versing with his friends ; and over his remains,which were accompanied to the church-yard bythe F.arl of Morton, the Regent, and a number ofother noblemen, and people of all ranks, his lord-ship pronounced the following eulogium :—“ Herelies a man, who in his life never feared the face ofman ; who hath been often threatened with dagand dagger, but yet hath ended his days in peaceI and honour.”Such was the inveteracy die Catholics held tothis stern and determined Reformer of their reli¬gion, that even in death they did not desist fromdefaming his name, and the following account ofhis death, as quoted by M‘Cree, is given as a spe¬cimen of the shifts to which they had recourse togive his labours a duTcrent appearance to what theywere, and happily for Ids country they turnedout to be: The opening of his mouth wasdrawn out to such a length of deformity, thats face resembled that of a dog, as his voice a'sodid the barking of that animal. The voice failedfrom that tongue, which had been the cruse of somuch mischief, and his death, most grateful to hiscountry, soon followed. When a number of hisfriends, who held him in the greatest veneration’were assembled in his chamber, and anxious to hearfrom him something tending to the confirmation ofthat |n^cl;o;il!)^pjpra:!c|)f»'3< a*i! thrtt. {^v.fiQuI^ g^ji*up wore «tly?ii;p^e.by',,t^e pretext of religiop,jdj’y-CiCjsed ip, tiy,n thi; .m^tejrie^ <>f t-iyit ^iagip art,winch lie kac! hitiierto kept, secret; cotifcsse^ the- ifl-jiistlee nf tliaf. puthorjty. ryhich was .then ilefewledby arms against tlip exiietl Quppn; and declaredmany tilings copeeniing J^dr .r^ujn^pnd' the res,£oV-fttion of religian afteit. his death, ynp of thp cqW-pany who liad taken tfte P-Qp tQ record lus dyingsayings, thinking.that he was in a deli.duw, desisiUfd from writing, uppt\ wlijch Knox, with p atp^n.{•ogntenance, and 'great.,isp,ei Uy of* Ian:'Mage, hcg®rtfo upbraid .him. • Thpd g-y'-d-for-nothing winty,hy...djp?;‘. thoa Jear^ /?§' wriiihig vtli.a.: wy greshg-ing. miiiy fdrsepa, :ts ah-atit to. happen in tliip Icingsdom ? D.’st thympistrust me ? J}ost thya not bmliaye tdiojt all wu; li I say shall most ceryptuly hap¬pen ? But that I may attest, to thee and othersjio’.? • undoubted- .ihpso things which I have justspyker. arc'j go opt ai! of’ you from me, .and 1 willin a nyipjcmt cpndre: tnepi all by a new and gtn-■licard oif prop!!' Toey withdrew' gj (y:y;h. thpqghreluciaruly, Itpyipt; only t! e lighted candles in tipschamber, and soon rciorne.v, expecting to witnesssome prodigy : When drey found the lights ex¬tinguished, and urs dead body lying prostrate oilthe ground/ Hamilton adds, that the spectators,after recovering from their astonishment, replacedthe dead body in the bed, ^md entered into agree¬ment to conceal what they hed witnessed; but God,,unwilling that such a docupent should be un¬known, disclosed it, “ poth by the .aman.uens^ hjm-self •(Robertos Ivatnhcl a FiakincJeugh), span oftygtaken off by 3 iimilaf death, and by others who.,although un.'.vdhngty, made clear coKfe.'ibp^,'"