ACCOUNTOF A .Moftfurprizing Savage Girl,IWho was caught wild in the Woods ofChampagne, a Province in France.Containing a true and faithful Nar¬rative of many curious and intereft-ing particulars refpefling this won-I . derful Phenomenon,Translated from the French.   " v ;An Account of a furprifing favage Girl,oNE evening, in the month of Sep¬tember I73i» a girl nine or tenyears old, being preiTed, as it wouldfeem, by third:, entered about the twi¬light into Songi, a village four or fiveleagues fouth of Chalons in Champagne,a province in France. She had nothingon her feet, her body was covered withrags and flans, her hair with a gourdleaf, and her face and hands were as blackas a negroe’s. She was armed with afliort baton, thicker at one end than theother, very like a club. Thofe who firfl:cbfer^ed her, took to their heels, cryingout, There is the devil. And, indeed, herdrefs and colour might well fugged thisidea to the country people, and happiedwere they who could fooned fecure theirdoors and windows •, but one of them,thinking that the devil was afraid ofdogs, fet loofe upon her a bull dog with,an iron collar. The little favage, feeing:him advance in a fury, kept her ground,without flinching, and grafped her little:club with both hands, ftretched herfelfto one fide, in order to give greater fcope:to her blow. Perceiving the dog withinAH ii L. L. U U iM 1 U r, MV.«>her reach, flae difcharged fuch a terribleblow on his head as laid him dead at herfeet. Elated with her victory, flie jump¬ed feveral times over the dead carcafe ofthe dog. Then (he tried to open a door,which not being able to effeci, {he ranback into the country, towards a river,and mounting a tree, fell fafl afieep.A French nobleman happened to bethenathiscoumry houfeofdongi, where,having heard various accounts of thelittle favage that had appeared on his'•rounds, he gave orders to catch her ;and particularly to the fhcpherd, whohad difcovered her firil in a vineyard.One of the country people, by a verylimple thought, hut which was attribut¬ed to his great knowledge of the man¬ners and cuitoms of lavages, cohjedfur-ed that ihe was thirfty, and.advifed toplace a pitcher 'full of water at the footof the tree in which ihe was fitting, Ihe,after locking fharpfy around, to fee whe¬ther an/ body obferved her, came down,nd went to drink at the pitcher, phin:r-d her chin into the water; but fome-tbing having ftartled her, file regained:he top of the tree before they had timeo apprehend her. This firil firatagemaaving failed, the fame perfon again ad-' U v. O U l U I1vifed to place a woman and fome chil¬dren near the tree, becaufe favages com¬monly are not ib my of them as of men ?and he bade them, above all, Ihow her afriendly air, and a fmiling countenance."His directions were complied with; awoman, with a child in her arms, camewalking near the tree, carrying differentfoijfs of roots and two fifhes in her hands,which Ihe held out to the favage, who,defirous to have them, defcended a branchor two, but went back again. The wo-,man (till continued her invitation withan affable, pleaiant countenance, accom¬panied with all pofllble ligns of friend-fhip, fuch as laying her hand upon herbread, as if to affure her that ihe lovedher, and would do her no harm ; thefavage was at lafl emboldened to comedown the treej and receive the roots and. :tithes; but the woman enticing her fromthe tree, by retiring infenfibly, gave ,time to the men who were lying in wait |for her, to advance and feize her. She jnever mentioned any thing of the griefand anxiety die felt on being taken, norof the efforts Ihe made to efcape ; butwe may eafily imagine both. The fhep- |herd, and the r^fl who had caught andbrought her to the caRle, carried herVi ; K-ITTfirfl; into the kitchen, till M. d’h-pinoyIhouid he informed of her arrival. Thefirfl thing there that appeared to drawher attention, was fome fowls which thecook was drefling; at thele llte flew withfuch amazing agility, that the afloii-ih-ed cook beheld one in her teeth beforehe imagined die had reached it.. M. d’-Hpinoy arriving in the n;ean time, andfeeiligwhatdie was eadng, caufed to giveher an unfkinned rabbit; fhe'inflandyflripped off the fkin, and . devoured it,1 hole who cohfidered her then, wereof opinion that die was about nine yearsof age. She Teemed black, as 1 have al¬ready faid ; but it appeared, after waffl¬ing her fever*! times, that die ivas na¬turally white, as die flillcontinites. Theyobferved like-wile, that her fingers, andin particular her thumbs, were verylarge, in proportion to the red: of herhand, w hich was otherwife neat enough:And to thisday , her thumbs retain fome-what of that largenefs. By her account,thefe large drung thumbs were very ufe-fui to her during her wild liie in thewoods; for, when Ihe had a mind to pal'sfrom one tree to another, if the branchesof the two trees were but at a fmall di-dance, and though of no greater thick-v,— ~ b j u i—rrrncfs than her finger, Tiie would place herthumbs on a branch of the tree in which^ihe happened to be, and by their meansfpring to the other, juft like a fquirrel.From this we may judge of the ftrengthof thofe thumbs of hers, which were ablein this manner to fhftain the wholeweight of her body in fpringing. Shewas committed to the care of the fliop-herd, who dwelt near the caftle, and re-scommended.by M. d’Epinoy to his ut-moft care, who pro mi fed to reward himhandfomely for his pains. We may wellconceive, that it would require a confi-derabledealof time, andfomehard ufageto wean her from her former habits, andto temper her fierce and ft.vage difpofi-tion; andthereisrealon to believe thatfhewas very clofely confined in this houfe,for Ihe found means to make holes inthe walls, and in the tiles of the roof,upon which fhe would run with as muchunconcern as upon the ground, neverfuffering herfelf to be retaken withouta great deal of trouble, and palling fbartfully through fmall holes, that they jcould fcarcely believe their eyes, afterthey had feen her do it, 1c was thusthat fhe efcaprd onte, among fever,-] o-dic r times, out of this houie, in a moltifevere ftorm of froft and fncw; on whichoccafion, after making good her efcape,dhe betook herfelf for fhelter to a tree.—The confufion, which the family wasthrown into, was great,who,after fearch-ing the houfe to no purpofe, refolved atilalt to look for her without, where theyfound her perched on the top of a hightree ; from whence, however, they werelucky enough to prevail on her to comedown.1 myfelf have been an eye-witnefs toifome indances of her eafe and fwiftnefs,than which nothing could be more fur-jpnfing ; and yet what 1 faw, was butthe remains of her former agility, whichtong ficknefs, and the want of practiceifor many years, had greatly impaired.Without having feen it, it is hardly pof-fible to imagine her lingular and agilemanner ol running; even for feveralfears after fhe was caught, die could o-:vertake tlie game in the chace.Madanioifelle le Blanc, (the name by(Which (he is now called,) remembersperfe<5Uy wmll her having paifed a rivetwo or three days before die was taken ;md we diall fee by and ny, that this isone of the mod certain faefls of her hif-i:ory. bhe w'as dien accompanied byScTr^UNTOFanother black girl, a little older thaherfelf; but whether that was her narural colour, or wdiether file was onlpainted, like le Blanc, is uncertainThey were fwimming acrofs a river, ant1diving to catch fillies, when they werobferved by a gentleman of that neighboorhood, who, feeing nothing burtheir heads, now and then appearing above the water, miflook them, as heifays himfelf, for two water-cocks, and|iired at them from a good diftance.Luckily, however, he milled them, butthe report made them dive and retirefarther off.The little le Blanc, on her part, had afifh in each hand, and an eel in her teeth.After having gutted and wafhed them,they ate, or rather devoured them. Whentheir repaft was finished, they diredledtheir courfe into the country, having leftthe river at their back. Soon after, leBlanc perceived a chaplet on the ground,which, no doubt had been dropt byfome perfon. Being apprehendve leither companion fhould deprive her ofthis little treafure, hie ftretched out herhand to take it up, upon which the o-ther with her baton, Hi uek her fo levere^ Itroke on the hand, that fhe loft theA SAVAGE GIRL. <9’n'fe of it for ferae time. She had, how¬ever, fo much {Length left, as with theweapon in her hand, to return the blowon the forehead of her antagorrift, with1 fuch a force as to knock her to the ground. fereaming frightfully. The chaplet was|the reward of her viblory, of which fieI made herfelf a bracelet. Touched, inthe mean time, with compaflion for herI companion, whofe wound bled very‘much, fie ran in fearch of frogs, aridfinding one, dripped off its fan with hernails, and covered the wound. After this| tin y feparated, fie that was wounded|ii taking the road towards the river, and.lithe victorious le Blanc, towards SongLThere is much uncertainty as to whatIhappened to thefe tv/o children, previ-lous to their arriving in Champagne: le|Blanc’s memory^ on that head, being"very indiftincl and confuted. I fiall|relate, however, every particular L haveibeen ab'eto learn from her, from whichI Ihall endeavour to form fome probableconjectures about her native councry,land the adventures that may havebrought her into Champagne. But tojretnrn ro her hidory.The fquealcing cries fie uttered thro’jjher throat were very frightful. The modso AN ACCOUNT OFterrible of all were uttered by her on theapproach of any unknown perfon, withan intention to take hold of her, atwhich :'e difcovered a horror that ap¬peared altogether extraordinary. Of thisilie once give a ftrong indance: A man,,who had heard otL her abhorrence ofbeing touched, refolved neverthelefs toembrace her, in fpite of the danger that!he ran, in going too near her, bhe had|in her hand at the time, a piece of rawjbcefwhich f!ie was devouring with greatiati?faction. The indant die faw theman near her, in the attitude of taking jhold of he r arm, fhe gave him fuch a Iviolent droke on the face, both with herhand, and the piece of flefh die held in Iit, that he was fo dunned and blinded,as to be fcarce able to keep his feet.The favage, at the fame time, believing1the Urangers arouno to be fb many ene¬mies, who intended to murder her, ordreading perhaps, punidimentfor whatdie had done, fprung out of their handstowards a window, through which (he;had a view of trees and a river, intend¬ing to jump from it, and fo make hewefcape ; which ihe would certainly havedone, if they had not again caught hold.of her. 1 .A SAVAGE GIRL. ^She appeared particularly fond cf fifh,either from her natural tads, or fromher acquiring by conftaUt praclice, irons,her childhood, the faculty of catchingthem, in the water with more cafe thaaIhe could the wild game by fpeed offoot. -She retained this inclinationfor catching fifh in the water two yearsafter her capture. One day happeningto be brought to the callle of Scmgi, dheno sooner perceived a door open whichled to a large pond, than ihe immedi¬ately ran and threw herfelf into it, dreftas (he was, fwam round all the Tides ctit, and landed on a fmall ifland, wentin fearch of frogs, which Ihe ate at lei-fare. This circumflance puts me inmind of a comical adventure which 1VLle Blanc told me herfelf.When any company vifited M. d’Epi¬nny at Songi, he ufed to fend for thegirl, who foon became more tame, andbegan to difcover much good humour,and a fofmefs and humanity ofdifpoh-&ion, which the favage life (he had beenobliged to follow for felf-prefervation,had not been able to efface. One day,as ihe was prefent at a great entertain¬ment in the caltle, obferving none ofthe delicacies fhe e flee me d, every thingAN ACCOUNT OFcooked, the ran out like light-niiig, and traverfing all the ditches andponds, retiirne.l v/irh her apron full offrogs, which ihe fpread very liberallyon the plates of all the gueds, and wasquite overjoyed at having found fuckgood cheer. We may eaiily figure toourfelves the confufion and buttle thisoccafioned among the guelts, every oneendeavouring to avoid or throw awaythe frogs that were hopping all about.The little lavage, quite furprifed at thefnall value they fee ned to fet on herdelicate fare, carefully gathered themup, arid threw them back again on theplates and table. The fame thing hashappened feveral times in different com¬panies.it was with the utmoft difficulty thatthey put her off eating'raw flsih, andby degrees reconciled her to cooked vic¬tuals. The firft trials (he made to ac-culfom herfelf to victuals dreft with fait,and to drink wine, colt her her teeth,which, together with her nails, werepreferred as a curiolity. She recovered,indeed, a new fet of teeth juft like ours,but hurt her health, which continues tobe extremely delicate. There was but.little probability of preferving her alive.■A SAVAGE GIRL. 13Tier belt (late of health being a ficklylanguor, which feemed to be carryingher to the grave. A phyfician was fentfor to fee her, who, being at a lofs whatto preferibe, hinted, that it was necef-fary to indulge her now and then withja bit of raw flefh. Accordingly theyave her fome, but (lie could, by thatime, only chew it, and fuck the bloodlit of it, which relieved her. It waswith great trouble that (he‘began to re¬cover, and acciidom herfelf to cookedvictuals. She was then placed in a con-ent at Chalons, where die began tomprove, and be pretty expert in feve-al female works, and her education.She had lived fome years in that con-jyent, and had applied for permiffion topTurne the veil; %ut conceiving a dif-rpad at the hou-fe, and being aihamed toFive with people who had feen her inicr wild date immediately after die wascaught, and when uncivilized, die ob-fflained leave to remove to a convent atIt. Manehold. She did not remain lony.ere, the Duke of Orleans taking hernder his protection, brought her toaris, placed her in the conve u of theclovelles Catholiques, in the dreer of St.linne, and went thither himfelf to fee14 an account ofand converfs with her, that he mightknow what progrefs ihe had made iiher education. Being afterwards re¬moved to another convent, ftili underthe protection of that prince, fhe felllfrom a window, and received a violentBroke on the head, which occadonedlong di(order that attacked her. Her lifewas defpaired. of, but by the kindabidance of her noble patron, Ihe was,confiderably relieved. It is impoffibhto exp refs the melancholy reflections olthis unhappy girl, on being, by the dea4’of the prince, left weak and laognifhing^without either relation or friend to takcare of her among thefe drangersthe fame time, in cafe of her recovering,(]je forefaw What neglecl, and how manmortifications fhe m#ft undergo, fronperfons tvho had no prolpeCl of beinrepaid their advances on her account.It was in thefe disagreeable circum-dances that 1 faw her the fird tinin November 1752. They hardly wermended, when le Blanc had recovered asmuch drength a- to be able to comeherfelf to ted ie.* .hat the Duke of Onleans, the inh . of his father’s vir¬tues. hid under I akeri to pay the nin«months board that had fallen due fatA SAVAGE GIRL. 15tier fince his father’s death, and that ftiehad befides fome reafon to hope to beput on that prince’s lift, for a yearlypenfion of 200 T.vres for life* adding,-at the fame time, that until, this iaftpoint ftioukl be fettled, which could nothappen till the month of January fol¬lowing, (he had accepted of a f nail a-partment, which a perfon had offeredher. But how, fays 1, do you propofeto fubfift in this apartment for twomonths, and perhaps more in your (ick-ly condition. For what purpofe, (an-fwered fhe, with a firmnefs and confi¬dence that furprized me,) hath Godbrought me from among wild beafts,and made me a Ghriftian ? not furelyafterwards to abandon and fuffer me toperifli for hunger; that is impoftible: Iknow no other father but him, his pro¬vidence will therefore fupport me.——-This ingenious neply, compenfates forthe pains I have taken to compofe thisrelation, which 1 ihaft conclude withfome of her own observations with re-| gard to the ftrft part of her life.She has no remembrance of her pa-| rents, or any other perfon, and f:arce-ly the country itfelf, except that theyihad no houfes, but holes in the ground:15AN ACCOUNT OFthat file frequently mounted trees tovoid wild beads, and that her countrieswere covered with fnow: that, when thevwere carried away by the fhip, on ac¬count of fome attempts they made to e-fcape, the two little favages wTere con¬fined in the hold of the (hip; but thisprecaution had like to have proved fatalboth to them and the (hip’s company.For, here they formed a fcheme offcratdhlng a hole in the fhip with theirnails, by which they might make theirefcape into their favourite element, thewater. The crew, however, luckily dif-covered their operations, in time to pre¬vent them, and efcape (hipwreck. Thisattempt made them chain the two littlefav ages, lb as to put it out of their pow¬er to attempt the hke again.It appears that after the efcape of thefe Jtwo children from the (li ip wreck, bring j"then incapable of any other views than fthefe of liberty and felf-prefervarion,they purfued no other rout than chance v!and necedity prefented. At night, ac¬cording to le Blanc, they faw more di-dinbtly than in the day, (whic i, how¬ever, mud not be underdood literally, Jjthough her eyes do dill retain fame what jjof that faculty) they travelled about in jA' SAVAGE GIRL. 17fearch of food. The fmall game whichthey catched, and the roots of trees, weretheir provifions. The trees were hke-wife their beds, or rather their cradles.for they flept foundly in them, either fit¬ting or riding on lome branch, fuffer-ingthemfelves tobe rocked by the winds,and expofed to the inclemency of theweather, without any other precaution,»| than fecuring themfelves with one hand,! and ufing the other by way of pillow,jj The largdl rivers did not flop theirj journey by day or night, for they al¬ways eroded them without any dread.Sometimes they entered for the fake ofdrinking, which they performed by dip¬ping in their chin up to the mouth, and1 lucking the water like horfes. But theyiXioft frequently entered the rivers tocatch the filh they laxv at the bottom,I which they brought on fliore, to open,fkin, and eat them.Having hinted to Madamoifelle leBlanc, the difficulty 1 had to believe itpoffible for her to make her way out ofa deep river, in the way fhe mentioned,without the affillance of her hands andbreath ; fhe adored ime, that withoutfueh affiflance ihe always mounted tothe lurtace, a very little bream being3 § A N ACCOUNT O i7liifEcient for that purpofe, having givenan example only four years ago. Ofthis file fliewed me the way, Handingupright, with both arms held ftraightup, as if holding fomething above thewater, having the end of her handker-chiefhetween her teeth, likeafifii breath¬ing at the fame time fioftly, but withoutflopping, with each corner of her mouthalternately, as a fmoaker breathes withone fide of his mouth, while he holdshis pipe in the other. In this way, byle Blanc’s account, Ihe and her Compa¬nion pafied the Marne in their way toSongi, where ihe was taken, as above-mentioned.In the year 1765, file was in a poor(late of health, having loft all her ex¬traordinary bodily faculties, and havingnothing of the lavage, but a certain wild-nefs in her look, and a gfeat appetite.The foregoing Narrative was drawnup under the immediate infpedlion of3VL deia Condemine,aFrenchgentleman,:whole curiofity and accuracy, in mattersof his fort is univerfally known, andwho had a paiticular acquaintance withMadamoifelle le Blanc. it bears theplained marks of truth and authenticity;kA 5 A V a 0 & u i a i,. 19DUt if any doubts remained, the fa61scould be attefted by living witneffe.The woman herfelf v/as alive in the year1765, when the tranfiator and a Scotsjentleman, then at Paris, had feveral;cnverfations Vvith her. To thefe twogentlemen, Tie related the following par-; iculars —That ihe remembered thetloumry fne came from was very cold,towered w-ith fnow a great part of therear: That the children there ?d’e ac-, iuftomed to the water from the moment|. f their birth, and learn to fwim as foons to walk: That they are taught veryparly to climb trees; and a child of a yearS|d there, is able to climb a tree: Thatfne people live in little huts above thelater, like beavers, and fubhll chieflyiy fifhing. She herfelf was fb muchled to water, that when fhe came toance fi e could not live without it, andas in ufe to plunge into it over headd ears, and to continue in it, fwim-ing about and diving like an otter, ory other amphibious animal.She fuppofesfhe was only about feveneight years of age when Ihe was car-:d away from her own countrv ; yetthat time, fhe had learned to fwim,fifli, to fhoot with the bow and arrow,20 AN ACCOUNT OFto climb, and to leap from one tree tdanother like a fquirrel.—She was takenup at fea, where Ihe was, with other chil¬dren, fet in a little round canoe, whichwas covered with a fkin that drew abouther middle like a purfe, and preventedthe water from getting in ; for, Ihe fays,it is the manner in her country to putthe children early out to fea in fuch ca¬noes, in order to accuflom them to bearthe fea, which breaks over them, rndj)though it may overturn the canoe, doesinot fink it. When fhe was taken up.lfhe was put aboard a great fliip, carried!to a warm country, and fold as a flave-;the perfcn who fold her having hrifpainted her black, with a view' to makeher pafs fcr a negro.She ftys further of the country iVoirwhence fhe was carried away, rha’ ih«people there had no cloathing but fkiusand made no me of fire at all, fo thawhen fhe came to France, fhe could nobear the fire, and hardly even the cloftfair of a room, or the breath of perfbn;who were near her. There were, fhfays, another fort of men in this cointry, w ho were bigger and ftronger thather people, and all covered with hairand thole people were at war with hepeople, and ufed to eat them when theycould catch them.In the hot country to which (lie was*iirfh carried, ihe fays, Ihe was re-im¬parked, and performed a very long voy¬age, during which, the mailer, to whom[he had been fold, wanted to make her-vork, particularly, at a fort of needle,vork; he beat her, but her millrefs,yho Ihe thinks fpoke French, was veryIpnd to her.—That thelhip having beenvrecked, the crew took to the boat; but: he, and a negro girl that was on board,krere left to (hift for themfelves. TheUegro girl, Ihe fays, could not fwim foWell as Ihe, but Ihe kept herfelf aboveJrater, by taking hold of le Blanc’s foot,nd in this way they both got on Chore,fhey then traverfed a great tra<5t ofjountry, commonly travelling all night,nd lleeping in the day time on the topsJf trees. They fublilled upon the rootsfpich fhe dug out of the ground yrith||er lingers, and particularly her thumbs|hich by that, and by the ufe Hie madeJ' it in climbing, and leaping from oneee to another, was much larger thane thumbs of other people. They alfoitched as much game as they could,hich they ate raw with the warm blood22A N L L. U U M I Uin it, in the fame manner as a hawk odpar-wild bead does; and fhe remembers paticularly, that they killed a fox, of whichthey only fucked the blood, finding theflelh very difagreeable.She had, when (lie was caught at Songi,the bludgeon above mentioned, whichfhe wore in a pouch by her fide ; and be-fides, lue had a longer dick, with threepieces of iron at the end of it, one in themiddle, {harp and pointed, and the othertwo upon the fides hooked ; and theufeihe made of it, was to dab any wild beadthat attacked her, with the fharp pointsand with the hooks Ihe aflided bethelf inclimbing trees, by catching hold of thbranches; and fhe fays it was'particu¬larly ufefui to her, in defending her a-gaind the bears, when they attempted1to foliov,’ her up the trees. This weapondie fays, ihe brought with her from thehot country, but the other from her own.From the above particulars, whichlearnt from her own mouth, l think Ijiam able to fix with fome certainty upon;tlie country of which fhe is a native. Shehas been fuppofed to be of the Efqui-maux nation; but there is a fufficienproof to refufe this notion, for Ihe is ofi|a fair complexion, a finooth fkin, an^ I. 1 IX i ..r> 7sfeatures as foft as thofe of an European:Whereas the people of the Efquimauxnations, are, by the accounts of all tra¬vellers, the uglieft of men, of the harfheftand mod difagreeable features, and allcovered with hair. She is certainly notmiftaken in the fituation of the countrywhich £he gives,for it is doubtlefs a veryIcold country; and the people whom (heIdefcribes as living in the neighbourhoodlof her nation, can be no other than theEfquimaux : and when we add to this,jwhat travellers tell its of a certain race; af people, who at*e fair, of fmooth Heins,land foft features, living in the country’bf Labrador, upon the eaft fide of Hud-sifon’s hay, in the neighbourhood of thelEfquimaux; we can hardly doubt butuchat Madamoifelle le Blanc is one of thatIface of people, and that her native coun¬try is the coaft of Hudfon’s bay, con-liderably to the northward of Nova Sco-|ia, the principal fettlement of the Bri-llifli in north America.|lxt K AcT from the Baptifm Regifter ofthe Parilh Church of St. Sulplice, ofj the town of-Ciialons in Champagne.1] THE 16th day of June, in the year1732,'’ was baptized by me, after I’ub-i J L U Lfcribing Priefl, Canon-'xe ruiar, Prior,Corace of-Sc. Sulplice of Chalons, inChampagne, Marie ^Ogelique Memmie,aged about eleven years, whofc parentsare unknown, even to the girl herfelf,who has been either born in, or trans¬planted when very young to fome tfiandin America, from whence, by the db'po-fition of a merciful provi lenc’e, havinglanded in Pra’ice, end being ftill con-dueled bv the lame y -dnrfs of God,into this clioc: re, has at lad, piaceau JAr.: r nunder the pat- onage of our i:general of St. ,.tered the 30th ihop, in the tiofpil.Maur, into which dieof October lad; her p'pd father being iM. Mem niele Moirie, proeuratcrof the:laid hoCpiral; and her god-mother, Da-moifelle Marie-Nicola d’ Halle, gover¬ned of the fame bofpita! of St. Maur.,who have atteiled the day and yearabove. (So Signed Viem nie le Moine,—D’Halle,—F. Comer Chanoinereg,Prieur, Cure.I, after lubfcribing . - ed, canon-regular, curate of St. Sub.hue, do cattilythe prefent extract to b • agreeable to ioriginal. Delivered at Cb.Uhns, this hof Odlober 1750.——Sigued,)D. SAiS> Prier, .Care,F I N I S,