THEADVENTURESO Fyack Okbam T(om SphceivellTwo SAILORS who went a Piratingon the KING’S Highway.How that Tom Splicewell was taken,and condemned to be hanged.How his Meffinate Jack, anphcd to theKIN G, and got him pardoned.With a Copy-of Jack’s Polite Letterto His MAJESTY.Printprl hv P T? AT the conqlufionof the war Jack Okhara andTorn SplicevveH two Tailors, who had beenTome time on Ihore, and had fpent the produce oftheir lafl voyage ; after a fmall time, their Wap-ping Landlady who was called Mother Doubie-•Chalk, began not only to look coldly upon them ;but alfo according to cuftom. when their money |was gone, to behave roughly towards them ; andthey not being entered again in any fervice, be¬gan to fcheme how they fhould raife a little mo--ney for .fbeir prefent ufe ; and, after feveral pro- ;pofals made between them that Hill met with iome jobjections, one of them at length faid,—Zoons!meffmate. w hat think you of a trip or two for a Iventure, ©’privateering about thefe coalis a little ? JIn my mind, we might pick up a prize or two.,without firing a {hot. Ay, replied the other, but jfuppofe we fliould'be taken ; will not a court-mar¬tial hang us for pirates ? Zoons! faid the other,we ftnift take what care we can net to be taken ; jand be fure to truife out of this latitude, lell wefliould be known by our rigging. And if w'e:jhoiild chance to be chaced, why, we muit crowdall the fail that we can, and be fure never to ftrikeas long*as we can fwim above water.To be brief, after feme little debate, they re-jfolved upon a venture ; and out they fet, with noother weapons of offence, or defence, than a cou-jpie of great broomffeks. When they were godinto the fields, a little way from town, one of them;feeing a gentlemen coming towards them, pretty'well dreffed, fays to the other. Damn me. Jack 9this is a prize worth boarding ; fhall we bring hi mito ?—He feems well, jigged -and loaded. So he.^oesgreplied the other ; and with that they bothjmade ready for the attack. When the gentlem:came up to them, they both hrandiftied thtir wea¬pons : and he who was xotniiiodore;, fainted hfcas fohows : Damn my blood, my; boy, but wrnult have fdme money with you 1 or eller, by G-dyou mud have a broadfide .1—The gentlemanfinding by their arms, manner, and languagfe, thathey were but young in their.buGnefs, aulwercthem thus: WeU, gentkmen, as you feeru, to bfaiiors, and good hearty cocks, do not'ufe me iland you ihall be vveleome to what money 1 havabout me, with alhmy, heart,,.was it ten time?much. With that he pr.efcnted them with abothree fhillings and hxpence. Here, gentlemeilaid he. is ail the money 1 have at prelent, and |wdih it were mere for your fakes i he iailofeeing the gentleman Ip gopd natured, fe.emcquite fatisfied ; took the money, told him it wenough, and wished him a good voyage. But thhad not gone far with their bpo:y, before thwere purfued ; for the gentleman telling the aventure juft after, to iome people that he mthe poffe was foon rafted ; and in Jels than han hour, one of them wras taken ; the otherfbme means or other, mace his efcape-The next leffions, at the Old Bailey, my yoicommodore was convicted of fellofiy, and lent' 11ced to be hanged ; thoJ the fimpliaty of his jf| aceeding made many people be lorry for him. jAlter this misfortune, his lei low adventiwas in great perplexity, tho’ he had efcaped f |ffell ; lor no body had yet enquired or foughter him about it But jack rcfofved to fpar«pairs ; and if pofnbie. to ipare his poor mellinlite • And being one day at-thc rendezvous,ing aboul it, with another oi their old ihipm   — V 4 )<tfter eral methods had been propofed between 'hem, and all fell to the ground : Jack boldly J.:rie>,— ’Sblood, Tom! I have a good mind to |; X rite a letter for him to the King myfelf. I am’.d, no body elfe can pardon him ; and I fancythat would be the moft likely way to do the bu-:nds ; only I cannot tell who to get to carry it,md deliver jt to him. Zoons ! cries the other, 1ke your fcheme, Jack ! and if you can write it,will go along with you, and we will carry it ton ourfelves, and then we will be fure that heI have it, for I never faw the King in my life.t 1 neither, replies the other, and, by G—d,‘om. if you will go wnth me to him. I will writeletter immediately ; the other confenting, Jacktiled immediately for a pen, ink, and paper ; but|; 1 he was going to begin his polite epiflle, atreat blotch of ink dropped from his pen, upon^ e top of his paper. Jack never called for anyyore; bait wiping it with his finger along theIPfeet, he began, and wrote as follows:t phnft your, jtiftgjhip,J1 THIS is to let you no that my mcJTumte Tom Splice-! k Ut is condemned to be hanged: for you mujl no, thatf ‘ was fooUfo enujf t° f-1 out a privateering withoutU - lying to the admirably for leave ; and the frjl prize| b took, gave fame intelligence of his courfe ; fo that he|i,jr chafed by a hole fquadron, and foon after eaken andI. 1 -h d into port However, he's a very oncjl fellow, I nfJ'i ", you, and by G—-d, as good a feaman as ever Jlept be:u vi fern and f. rn He Jhall not and fplice. reef and\^'\dle a fail, ft eer and rig a jhip, with ev a man in theand that's a bould word And if youle be fo hindi order his difeharge, I dare fwear, heel never be guil-|c fuch a nother cryme, as long as he lives, which willkt1 very much oblyge,•]n| i the flip Alehoufe, Wapping.sefs, Tom. Fsiphve^ Shipmate,• bumble fervent.Jack Okham.When Jack had finiflied the above letter, and ]jthe other had fet his hand to it, as a proof of his ij japprobation, and the truth of its contents, they j||fealed it up, and directed it as follows :THIS FOR THE KING WITH SPEED.j As foon as this was done, without further de« jlay, out they fet, to deliver their letter as directed ; |^and all the way they went, they enquired wherethe King lived. At laft. when they came into the[Strand, near Charing-Grots, a gentlemen, who[was juft come from St James’s, hearing them en- jquire fo earneftly after the King, and feeing they ; ;were tailors, fttpt up to them, and demanded[thus : Hark ye, my lads, what do ye want with[the King pray ? have you an exprefs i No ! an- iIwers one of them, we have no exprefs, nor dotot know what you mean i but we have got a let-er for him, and vrant to deliver it to him, if we j:an. What! replies the gentleman to the Kinglim/elf? King hitnfelf! ay. to the King hirnfelf;:ried the failcr, fuppofe it was to the Lord HighAdmiral; What of that ? Why, my lad, repliedhe gentleman, if it be a thing of confequence,j-ou may very eaiily fee the King, for he is nowvalkitfg in the Mall; I faw him there within thefe Ien minutes myfelf.— What, Sir, demands Jack,s he walking there alone ? No, replies the gen-; teman, there are a great many of the nobility andsentry along with him. How may a body know 'lien, cries Jack, which is he ? Why, fays the gen-jeman again, the King is a very welt lookingIan, and you may know him by a ftar on his left,tjreaft, and a blue ribbon hanging from his neck-i1 By this time, a great number of people wereIt! ered about the Tailors ; and hearing what hadIfied betwixt them and the gentleman, as above.. ( s >after the fallori had thanked him, they proceed,ed ; and the mob refolved to bear them companyin their emb^ffy. So, that b) the time they weregot to the Park their attendants were increafedto feveral hundreds But juft as they came to theend of the Mall they happened to meet a noble-man, who in fome mtafure anfwered the defcrip-tion which the gentleman had given < f the King,being a Knight of the garter, with his ftar andribbon. Jack no fooner faw him, but he roaredout to his companion, by G—d, Tom here is theKing ! now for it! So after feeling for the letter,he ftepped up to the nobleman, and fainted himthus : Your humble (ervant, Sir ? pray, are youthe King ? No, friend, replied his lordfhip, Iam not indeed Pray, why do you afk me thatqueftion ? Nay, Sir, returned the Sailor. I begyour pardon ? hope no offence ! but 1 was toldjuft by a gentleman that faw the King within thishalf hour, that he is rigged in much the fametrim as you are; to that I did not know butyotlmight be him Have you any difpatches for hisMajefty, demands the nobleman, that you are infuch queft of him ? ’Spatches ! yes, Sir, quotfJack, i have ; I have a letter for him j and mufldeliver it into his own hand, if I can find him—The nobleman imagining that there muff b;fomething more than common in this rencoumter, told "them, that if they pleafed, he would gback with them, and not only flrew them thKing, but would alfo introduce them to him. lipon which, the failoV thanked him for his gootrwiil. and away they went together. When thecame to about the middle of the Mall, they m' with his Majefty ; and the nobleman going upi;kim in a low voice acquainted him with what h;i( 7palfed between him and the failors ; and pointingto them, defired his Msjefty would pleafe' tp per¬mit them to deliver their letter to him By allmeans, my Lord, replied the King. With thathe beckoned the failors to approtich Here, my.lads, faid his Lordfhip, this is his Majefty, ifI you have any letter for him you may deliver it.Here Jack advanced with his hand to his hat,but without pulling it off, and having come pret¬ty near the King, faid to him, Prav, Sir, are you^the King? Yes, Sir, anfwered his Majefty frriiJ-ing, 1 believe fo. Then, Sir, fays Jack, there is ;a letter for you, ant pleafe you. The King look- !ing hard at the fellow, could not help Imiling at ?his blunt, uncourtly addrefs ; but he took the 11. letter from him, and looking upon the fuperfcrip- i! ]tion, fell a laughing an*! (hewed it all around to 1the nobles that attended him.Jack feeing the King look fo pleafantly, faysto his (hipmate, by G—d, Tom, 1 believe it will =do ; the King feems to be in very good humour.And when his Majefty had read the letter, hedelivered it to the nobleman who introduced thefailor to him. Look here, my Lord fays he, ]read that letter, and learn a new direftion. Up¬on my honour, this fellow has no deceit in him ; ii dare fay it is his own hand-urging, and hisown dictating too. However, this I may lay toLhis credit, that his (tile and behaviour are botlilhoneft towards me ; for, he has not troubled mewith compliments on the one, or ceremonies on;the other. So turning to the faitors, he fays tdhim who gave him the letter, Friend, as this i|his fir ft offence, upon the account of your kindletter here) you may. let your friend know that fwill pardon him this time, but let him take can' j< a )tiiat he nevei* tranfgrefs fo agaia. Ant pleafe you,Sir, quoth Jack, I dare fwear he never will; ;and if you will rake care that he lhall not behanged this time, I am fare Tom’s a very honeStfellow, and will be very thankful to you. Wei!,faid his Majefty, you may affuie yourfelf, that .he (hall not die for this crime ; and you may lethim know that I will fave his life for the fake ofyour letter here. Ay, Sir, faid the failor, but ,how can a body be fure that you will not forgetit ? Why, replied the King, you may take myword for it, I will not forget it. Caufe, if yon(hould, quoth Jack, perhaps they may hanghim, and you never be. the wifer. But if oncewe fhould get him a fhipbeard with us, by theblood ! but you mull then aflc the captain firft, ,or a thoufand of you could not hang him. Whythen, replied the King, if you will take care, and ;get him a fiiipboard, as foon as he is fet at liber¬ty, I will take care he dial! be difcharged in avery few days. Sir, replied the failor, I returnyour Kinglhip a great many thanks ; and l amfure, poor Tom will be ready to hang himfelffor joy, that he is to go on board again : Andby the mefs! there is no good <o be got {layingfo long on fhore. Then he made the King a lowbow, hitched up his trowfers, tacked himfelf a- !bout, and fleered off in triumph, that his polite hletter had raved his melfmate’s life.And the flory fays, that the King and his at¬tendants were no lefs delighted with the poorfailor’§ embaffy, than they were with the fuccefs ,af it.FINIS.