THETO WHICH ARE ADDED,THE LUCKY ESCAPE^A W TV E F O R ANY M A N.The Sailor’s Adventure for a Wife.G L A S G O W,^rioted by J. & M. ROBERTSON, SaU^nafkcti3o?.t ^THE WATCHMAN:>KOM MR. DIB DIN’S “ CASTLES IN THE AIR ”Watchman I am, and I know all the round,.<T\ Th - houfr-keepers, the'ftrays, & the lodgers,Where low devils, & rich dfin’s, & high tips may beOdd dickirg, queer kids, & rum codgers, (found,Of money, and of property,Tm he that takes care,/*nd cries, when l fee rogues go by,Hey ! what are you doing there !Only, a little bufmefs in that houfe; you un-Jerftand me.” “ Under Hand you! well I be¬lieve you are an honeft man; do you hear, bringane an odd fdver candleflick or fo by and by.”Tlirn to my box I creep,And there fall faft aflerp———What’s that? St Paul’s ftrikes one;Thus after all the ndfehief’s done,i goes and gives them warning,. And loudly bawls,As.fhikesSt Paul’s,paft one O’clock, arid a cloudy morning.Then, round as the hour I merrily cries,Another fine mefs I difeover*For a curious rope-ladder I ftraightway efpies,And Alifs ‘Forward er.pefting her lover.Then to each ouiers arms they fly  “ My life, my foul, ah! ahj”——el Fine work, Mtfs Hot-upon’t,”-cries f.Til knock up your Papa.”£3] , . .41 No, you won't fare/- “ Tss, l {hay -, wo*-i tky oki foul, t* br tfeate^i in this manner.”——1 “ Here, take this.” -Oh ! you villain, want toi bribe an honeft watchman, and with fuch a triEe| too. —” Well, here's more.” ru More ! youfeem to be a fp'rited lad; now do you make her a| good hufbami, 1 am giad you hayt tricked the oldI hunks-: 1 wi(h you fafe to Gretna. Green.”Tien to my box Y creep,And there falls raft afleep —What's that? St Paul’s (trike* two,The iovers off, what does I do,But gives the Father warning,And loudly bawls,As ftrikes St. Paul’s,Paft two o’clock, and a cloudy morning.Then, towards the fquare from my box as I look?*f hear fuch a ranting and tearing;'PisPharaoh’s whole hoft.& the pidgeons 8c roofessAre laughing, and Tinging, and fwcaring.Then fuch a hubbub, fucb a dir,-jHow they blafpheme and curfclThat thief has ftolen my dijrnond pin;Watch, watch, i’ve lotr my purfe !“ Watch, here, I charge you ”—And I changei you: damme, charge foe marge.”—” Indeed it is'Ca marvellous thing, tha. honeft people can’t pafathe ftieets, without, being, robbed; which is thethief that Hole the gentleman's purfe!”—That'sfhim.”-~—“ What, Sam Snatch!——give me thepurfe: you are miilaken in your man, fo oo hbrru:peaceably, and don’t cb,:at:'ms to-take you to tfcsWaich-t-ouC':..”'* '■ , t 4 3Then ro my box I cr-eep.And there /all fnft afleep V/hat’s that? St. Paul’s ftrik^ t^ree, '-'Thus from my roguery I gets frce^.. By giving people warniuj',And loudly bavHs,As flrikes St. Pail’sPall tlwee o'clock, and a cloudy morning.T II E L it C K Y E S C A P E. 'T That was once a ploughman a failor am note,X No lark rbat aloft in the fky,.E'er'fiaitti’d his wings to giTrj'peed to the plongh,Was fo g i? and lo carelefs as I. Was fo, etc.But my friend was a carpenter on board a king’s ftlrp,Ann he aik’d rJe to go juft to fea for a trip,And he talk’d of fueh things as if failors were kings.And fo teazing did keep,And fo tergicg-ditl keep,That I leltmypoQr plough t«go plcughmgthe deep,Nolcnger the horn call’d me up in the morn,No longer the horn call’d me op in the morn,7 t> uftfcd totbe carpent&r and thc'inconftant u ind,ri hat made me for to go and leave my dear b^tind.J did not much like td fye on board of a (hip,. When in danger there’s no door to creep out;1 liked t!*e jorly tar?, Miked bumbo ami flip, >. Put t did not "like rodkuig about:ligand by came a hurricane, I did not like that,Next a battle that many a fsil&T laid Hat jAh f cried I, who would roam,,r Tiiarlike me had a home ;When i'd fow and I’d reap. (deep,Ere r.dJaft tay poor plough, to go ploughing the[ TWhere fvveeJjy the Hr*raGiii’d ms up hi th“ r.jorn,Ere 1 trufte.4 .the carpenter awui the inconllant windlltat made me for to go ar.ti brave my love ben tad.».At laft fafe I lauded, and ir* a whok fi;in,Nor dfd I make a ay lov.g flay,.Ere I fount! hr a friend ^’nO I a-fk’d for my k.ia#Father dead, and my wife run away !Ah ! v/ho but thyfelf, laid I, haft thru to l>!.*.;ne?vWives iofi.ng their hui’or.ilds oft iofc tneir goodname, * * .Ah ! why did I roarttWhen fo hippy at home:l could ferw and ccodd reap,Ere I left my poor pldoyh to go ploughing the deep:When fo fvveefly the bornCall’d me up in the morn,Curfc Jight on the carpenter and the inccnftantwind,'That made me for to go ap.d leave my dear Behind.Why, if that be the cafe, faid this very frme friend,And y.ou been no mote minded to roam,Gt'e’s a ihake by the flit, all your cafe’s at an endj! Dad’s alive and your wife’s fafe at home.Stark daring with joy, I leapt out of my (kin,Eu«s d my wife/ mother, tider, and ail r>f my kin :Now, cry’d f, let them roam,Who want a gooi? home,fan well, fo I’ll keep,Noragairtleave my plough to go ploughing the deep}Once more lhail the horn,..Call m; up i**tjhe morn,Nor (hall any damn’d carpenter, nor incondant1 - wind,E’er tempt me for to go and leave my dear behind."£61 , 'A WIFE F 0 R ANY MAN.DL’IL t^k the wars that hurry’d Willy from me, \Who to love .e juft had fwornThey made him ^aptain, fute, to undo me,Woe’s me, he’ii ne’er rc‘u *nrA thoufand loons abroad will fight him.He from thou lands ne’er will run,:Day and night I did invite him,To ftay fate from^fword and gun.I us’d alluring graces,With muckle kind embraces.Now fighing, then crying, tears dropping fall,'And had he my foft armsFreferr’d to war’s alarms;T iMy love grows mad,Without the help of gad,I fear in my fit I had granted all.Tuft-at our parting, how my hand he fqaeczid,And granted me an humble kifs,And fpokc fo kind, in truth I was plea/, d, *.For I found a joy in this.Thar did I beg him. to quit his commilSon,Left he (hould never return again*.And then how wretched would be my condition, ‘,If Willy in the wars was (lain.I figh’d, and often told him.What dangers might befal him ;In battle guns rattle, thoufa»Q8 like-.vile !all,And if my love flrouid die,Whit fheuid become j^ne ?Who here nmft lie,Lamenting every day.And it Willy’s kill’d adiec t? . i..Ko-ar bieft is (he whofc love is not for figbtiagiNor In the war* oblig’d to be;Bat to continue with her he has delight in :If wiin^did fo then happy meI But rniue runs through many dangers,All for honour, th,at empty name.Oh! had he to war* been a (trangrr,. Then my arms he’d ne’er refrain.Though I had (tore of beauty,He cry’d, It was his dutyi For to go to Flanders, and he mud be gone*But had he fweer repofePreferr d to bloody blow*,He ne’er would flic,To Flanders for to die,And thus to leave me to lie a’one.I wafh’d and patch’d to make me more provoking,Snares they rold me would catch the men,iAnd on my bead a large commode (at cocking,Which made me (hew as tall again.It’s for a gown too paid nvuch momry,Which with golden flowers did fltine.'iMy love might well think me gay and bonny,No Scots lafs was e’er fo fine.| * ' My petticoat was fpotted, ,Fring’d too, with thread I knotted.uLac d fltoea, 61k hofe, garter’d over knee.Buf, oh ! the fatal thought,To Willy thefe wchc nought,Who rode to towns,Riffled with dragoons*While the filly loon might have plunder’d me.Thk SAILOR’S ADVENTURE for a WIFE,t' ARLY in the morni.vg, by the break t f day,H# Tfaw a jojly failor, and a lady gy,E 8 JThey in tbs prove were walking, early in the morn,Of love they both were talking,, Sc creffing the,lawn.I ften*: up clofe befide the' to hear their difeourfe,The tailor fstd, fwe’et lady, be not fo crofs*Ynr if yon do deny roe for to my bride,Then for revenge I’ll Winder o’er the ocean wide. |She faic!,dear loving failor.I am too youngtowed, |To love I am a flrznger, thefe very words (he fa Id, fBeGdrft tny tender father he has gold in ft ore,-If I ffiould gain his anger he’d fee rce no jnore.Could I but fre your father, and my mind reveal*I have both gold and Giver, and houfes ar my will*Altko’ lam a failor, t am not low ami poor,Orant me but one favour, O then 1’ft ailt no more.O pray what is the favour that of m; you crave ?If it lies in my power you the f?.m« {hall have;My heart you now have gained, yea are all I prise,So make yonrfelf contented, pray be fatisSed. 'O fweeteft of all wogien, blefied be that voice, |Heaven be prais'd that I have gain'd my choice,Before that we are marty’d let me your father fee, |All fear is, nor" mifearry’d, my heart is full cf glee.ISoftraighttoherfatfcerthe brilk younglady went,)And faid,grantmeone favour,dogiveyc-urcenftnt,■In love I am entangled with a failor brave,your con lent to marry is all that f crave.Herfatbergavecorfent,tochurch they did repair,;iSuccefs Httimd the failor .- td the lady fair,Attemded by her father the lady tor to fee,He {aid, heufts and riches all I give to thee.', GLASGOW, >Printed by J, & M. Robertfon-,'Saltmarket, 1S0J. |