NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES,IRISH STORIESA COLLECTION OPTHE MOST INTERESTING TALES ANDLEGENDS OF IRELANDCOMPILED FROM THE BEST AUTHORS,GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1850.' OF SCOTLANDCONTENTS.FAQlTlio Hermit turned Pilgrim,    3The Farmer and his Servant  5The Three Advices,  7The Spaeman,    9The Priest and the Robber, 11Mac Turkhill,... 13Anne Boney, the Female Pirate, —14James Butler, 16Jack Withers, ISThe Generous Irishman, 20Paddy and the Priest, 24Ready Wit,    24j 77 OO SAiXCIHHvIJS till COT HTHT 3<‘T <1» »>«*> tmtTiTKISITPOPULAR IRISH STORIES.THE HERMIT TURNED PILGRIM.In a solitary cave near the hanks of Killarney, there livedan ancient hermit; far retired from the bustle and pleasuresof tfie city, he spent his days in the praise of his divine Crea¬tor. But here we may observe the power of sin in man. Asuggestion arose in his heart, that vice should triumph overvirtue. Pondering on the various accounts he received, hebegan to doubt the power of Divine Providence; he thereforeresolved to travel as a pilgrim, and setting out one morning,travelled the pathless grass until mid-day alone; he at lengthfell in with a young man who saluted him, and though fardifferent in years, they were delighted with each other’s com¬pany. The sun had sunk below the horizon when our travel¬lers began to think of resting their weary limbs. They stop¬ped at a large house, and were welcomed by the generousowner, who was ever happy in making his house the traveller’shome, not from charity or any good, but from the love ofpraise. After partaking of an elegant repast, they were con¬ducted to beds of down.In the morning, before they recommenced their journey,each drank a golden goblet full of wine. When a good dis¬tance from the house, the youth produced the golden cupwhich he had taken from the kind nobleman, and showed itto the hermit, which greatly surprised him, and he could nothelp thinking it hard that such generous actions should be sobasely rewarded. While thus they journeyed, on a suddenthe skies were covered with heavy black clouds, which pre¬saged an approaching storm. Our travellers sought repose ina large well-built house. The owner was a great miser,whoso door was ever shut against those in distress:—Longdid they knock in a piteous condition, battered with the windand rain: at length the old miser opens the door, and by a halfwelcome, admits the shivering pair; he brought them a morselof bread of the coarsest sort, with a glass of wine, which he4had ill will to grant, and as soon as he saw the tempest cease,he warned them to depart.The hermit wondered greatly that one so rich should liveso miserably, denying himself even the necessaries of life.But his surprise was greater when his young companion tookthe cup he stole from his generous landlord, and gave it tothis miserable wretch. The sun’s bright rays once more in¬vite the pair to their journey. He could not understand hiscompanion’s conduct, a vice in the one place, and madness inthe other. Night coming on, they were again in want of lodg¬ing. They again applied at a house convenient, which the kindmaster readily granted, saying, to him that gives us all, weshould yield a part. In the morning the pilgrims arose; butas they were ready to depart, the youth stole up to a cradlewherein slept a child, the landlord’s only pride, and takinghold of it by the neck, choked it dead. But Oh! horror ofhorrors! how looked our pilgrim when he saw what was done.On leaving the house, a servant followed to show the way,and as they reached the river, the youth, as if watching a timeto sin, approached him, and threw him in, where he was in¬stantly drowned. Wild rage inflamed the old hermit’s eyes.At last he burst the bands of fear, and was beginning to thunderout invective speech and imprecations on the detested wretch,when lo! this strange partner appeared no longer man, but waschanged into all the grandeur and majesty of an angel, andaddressing himself to the hermit, told him that his praise andprayer was heard at the throne of justice; and being so ac¬ceptable, said he, I, an angel, was sent down to calm thymind, and let you know the truth of divine government, thatyou might have no scruples in your mind for the future,Those events which appeared so surprising to you on yourjourney, I will unriddle to you, that you may confess the Al¬mighty just in all his ways. The great vain man who, for thelove of praise, forced his guests to morning draughts of wine,has, by losing the cup, lost a great part of his vanity, and willfor the future give nothing away but where he sees there isneed. The miser who never gave any thing to the poor, withhim I left the cup; he will for the future become a new man,and never refuse relieving those whom he sees in distress.The pious man who ended the day in prayer, was beginningto lose his piety and virtue; that child whom ye saw me killwas weaning his heart from God; to save him God took thechild ; and already the aged parent owns his blind fondnessdeserved no less punishment. The servant whom I threwinto the river was this night to kill and rob that good andcharitable man. Now I have shown you the nature and cause5of the wonderful rule of Providence: depart In peace, resignyourself to the will of your Creator, and sin no more. Withthat the angel disappeared, and the hermit sought his ancientplace, where he spent the remainder of his life in piety andcontentment.THE FARMER AND HIS SERVANT.A poor man had three sons who was under the necessity ofsending the eldest from home, to provide for himself in the bestmanner he could. He left his father’s house early one morn¬ing, and after travelling all day, he came to a rich farmer’shouse, where he inquired if he could employ him. What canyou do, said he? Sir, said the boy, I can do any thing I amput to, but I will not engage myself longer than to the cuckoosings. I will, said the farmer, give you ten guineas a year,if you do every thing faithfully, and refuse nothing you arecommanded to do, but remember, the first th;U is angry, eitheryou or me, is to bo flogged on the bare back as long as theother pleases, and then the bargain is at an end; so if youthink proper, you are welcome to stay. I hope, Sir, said theboy, there will be no occasion for either of us to be angryduring my time here, so I believe on these terms I will stay.In the morning the boy was sent out to the field, and hismaster told him he must plough all the land his dog wouldrun over before eating or drinking. The dog being taughtfor the purpose, ran over the whole field before he stopped,which would be a good day’s work.Before he had finished his task, it was near sunset, and thepoor fellow had not tasted any thing the whole day, but in¬stead of getting his dinner as he expected, he was compelledby his master to begin work again in the barn. He com¬plained of this treatment, and said no one would submit tosuch usage. Are you angry, said the farmer ? I cannot helpbeing angry, said the boy. Well, your time is expired, saidhe, and getting two or three persons to hold him, he most un¬mercifully flogged him. The next morning he got up andwent home, and sorely grieved that he had had the bad luckto fall in with such a rogue: he told his brother all that hap¬pened him, and showing him his wounds, said, all heVantedwas revenge. Well, said his brother, I will go in the morn¬ing and see what I can make of him. Accordingly he set offpretty early, came to the same farmer’s house before sunset,and inquired if he knew any one wanting a boy in the neigh¬bourhood. What is your name, said he? John, Sir; I would6serve any person faithfully that will hire me till the cuckoosings, for I intend after that to go to England. The farmersaid he would engage him, at the same time telling him histerms, adding, I will give you a couple of shirts and a pair ofshoes, because you are a good looking fellow, and I have aliking for you. John having agreed to the bargain, was de¬sired to rise early. Accordingly in the morning he was firstup, and got a stout stick for a paddle to the plough: havingproceeded to the field, his master told him he must ploughwhatever his dog would go over. The dog was at this timetwo or three rigs beyond him, and taking the paddle in hishand, he struck him on the head and killed him. What madeyou kill my dog ? I am only to plough what he has goneover, and that is not much. I hope you are not angry withme. O no, said he, I am not; so John began to his work,and in a short time he had ploughed all the dog ran over, andthen came home. Well John, said the farmer, you have soondone your work this day, go and take your dinner, I havenothing more for you to do, you may play yourself to bedtime.All that night the farmer and his wife were plotting how tobe revenged of John, for they saw it would not be easy tomake him say he wras angry, and they -would willingly partwith him if the bargain could be broke. The next morningwhen the farmer called John to him, and told him he had sixcows beyond the river; there is a good ford, said he, but youmust bring them over without wetting their feet. That is ahard task, master, but I will do what I can: so he went tothe next house, and borrowing a hatchet, crossed the riverand cut the feet off the cows, putting them into a sack whichhe carried home to his master. What is this you have gotin the sack, said he? Faith, said John, I was plotting allmorning how to get the cows over the river dry shod, and Icould not think of a better way than cutting the feet otf them.You scoundrel, said the farmer, is that the way you have usedmy cattle? Indeed, said John, you may blame yourself, forhow was it possible I could get them over a large river with¬out wet ting their feet, but by the method I have taken, and Ihope you are not angry. No, I am not, said he, but you mustlook to yourself better than you are doing, or you will ruinme. The farmer and his wife were more spited than ever. Ido not know what will be done with this fellow, if we do notfind some way to break the bargain, he will ruin us. I willtell you what we will do, said she,—I see we must try someplan to get him away. You must put him on the house to-mor¬row to fasten the slates, and I will go up into the ivy bush andcry cuckoo three times, and then his time will be expired. I1believe, said he, it will be the best way, and accordingly heput him on the house the next morning, and his wife wentinto the bush. As John was busy working, his mistress cal¬led cuckoo three times; and he, having a good guess what itwas, ran down with his arms full of slates, and throwing theminto the bush almost killed her before the farmer knew anything about it. At length hearing what was going on, he ranto the bush, where he found his wife much hurt. After ad¬ministering some wine and other cordials to her, she recovered,and John coming in his master flew at him in a great rage:you rogue, said he, what is this you have done ? Why, areyou angry, master, said John ? To be sure I am angry, I willnot suffer you about my house any longer. Well, said Johnto some of the neighbours, you must hold my master until Iflog him, for that is our bargain. Do not, said the mistress,and I will fill your hat with crown pieces. Well, says John,on that condition I will spare him. John then bade farwell,and went home with his hat full of crown pieces, and told hisbrother all that had happened, at the same time showing himwhat money he took off them.THE THREE ADVICES.There was a time when a great many people had to leaveIreland for want of employment, and the high price of pro¬visions. John Carson, the subject of the following story, wasunder the necessity of going to England, and leaving his familybehind him ; he was engaged by a gentleman at twelve guineasa year, and was greatly esteemed by his master. The termof his engagement being expired, he determined to returnhome. The gentleman pressed him to remain, but Johnwas eager to visit his wife and children. In place of givinghim his wages, the gentleman insisted on him taking the fol¬lowing advice:—Never take a bye-road, when you have a highway;—never lodge in the house where an old man is marriedto a young woman;—never take what belongs to another. Itwas with reluctance that John was persuaded to accept of theadvices instead of his wages, but the gentleman told him theymight be the means of saving his life. Before setting out onhis journey, his master presented him with three loaves ofbread, one for his wife, and one for each of his children, en¬joined him not to break them until he got home, at the sametime giving him a guinea to defray his expenses. He had notproceeded far, until ho met with two pedlars who were travel¬ling the same way. He kept company with them until theyscamo to a wood, through which there was a road two milesnearer the town they were going to. The pedlars advisedJohn to accompany them that way, but he refused to go offthe high way, telling them, however, he would meet them ata certain house in town. John arrived in safety, and took uphis lodging at the appointed place.While he was taking his supper, an old man came hobblinginto the kitchen; and on asking the servant who it was, shetold him it was the landlord. John thought on his master’sadvice, and was coming out, when he met the pedlars, all cutand bleeding, having been robbed and almost murdered in thewood; he advised them not to lodge in that house, for thatall was not well, but they disregarded his advice.John, rather than remain in the house, retired to the stableand laid himself down upon some straw', where he slept soundlyfor some time. About the middle of the night, he heard twopersons coming into the stable, and on listening to their con¬versation, he discovered that it was the landlady and a manlaying a plan to murder the husband. In the morning, Johnrenewed his journey, but he had not proceeded far when hewas informed that his former landlord had been murdered,and the two pedlars had been taken up for the crime. Johndid not mention what he heard to any person, hut determinedto save the poor men if it was in his power.On arriving at home he found his wife and family in good *health, and anxiously expecting his arrival. Having relatedall his adventures from the time of his departure, togetherwith his master’s advices, he produced the loaves of bread;hut what was their astonishment when they found the wholewages enclosed in one of the loaves, which his generous mas¬ter had put there unknown to him. After remaining at homesome time, he determined to return to England, in order toattend the trial of the pedlars.On going into the court, lie saw the two men at the bar, andthe woman and the man he had heard in the stable, as prose¬cutors. Having been permitted to give his evidence, he toldthe affair so correctly that the man and the woman confessedtheir guilt, and the poor pedlars were instantly acquitted;they offered to give him any thing he pleased, but John kindlyrefused accepting any recompense but a few shillings to defrayhis expenses, alleging at the same time, that he considered itnothing more than ids duty. John, before leaving England,resolved to visit his kind old master, and return him thanksfor his generosity. As soon as the gentleman heard the ob¬ject of ins journey, he was so highly pleased at so praiseworthyan action, that he offered him a small farm of land, and promised9him every encouragement if he would remain; John gladlyembraced the offer, and having sent for his family, took pos¬session of his new property, and lived respectably all his days.THE SPAEMAN.A poor man in the north of Ireland was under the neces¬sity of selling his cow, to help to support his family. Havingsold the cow, he went into an inn, and called for some liquor.Having drank pretty heartily, he fell asleep, and when heawoke, he found he had been robbed of his money. PoorRoger was at a loss to know how to act; and, as is often thecase, when the landlord found that his money was gone, heturned him out of doors. The night was extremely dark, andthe poor man was compelled to take up his lodgings in an olduninhabited house at the end of the town.Roger had not remained long here until he was surprisedby the noise of three men, whom he observed making a hole,and depositing something therein, closed it carefully up againand then went away. The next morning, as Roger was walk¬ing towards the town, he heard that a cloth shop had beenrobbed to a great amount, and that a reward of thirty poundswas offered to any person who could discover the thieves.This was joyful news to Roger, who recollected what he hadbeen witness to the night before; he accordingly went to theshop, and told the gentleman that for the reward, he wouldrecover the goods, and secure the robbers, provided he got sixstout men to attend him, all which was thankfully grantedhim.At night Roger and his men concealed themselves in theold house, and in a short time after the robbers came to thespot, for the purpose of removing their booty, but they wereinstantly seized and carried into the town, prisoners, with thegoods. Roger received the reward and returned home, wellsatisfied with his good luck. Not many days after, it wasnoised over the country that this robbery was discovered bythe help of one of the best spaemen to be found, insomuchthat it reached the ears of a worthy gentleman of the countyof Derry, who made strict inquiry to find him out. Havingat length discovered his abode, he sent for Roger, and toldhim he was every day losing some valuable article, and as hewas famed for discovering lost things, if he could find out thesame, he should be handsomely rewarded. Poor Roger wasput to a stand, not knowing what answer to make, as he hadnot the smallest knowledge of the like. But recovering him-210self a little, he resolved to humour the joke, and thinking he■would make a good dinner and some drink of it, told thegentleman he would try what he could do, but that he musthave the room to himself for three hours, during which timehe must have three bottles of strong ale and his dinner, allwhich the gentleman told him he should have. No soonerwas it made known that the Spceman was in the house, thanthe servants were all in confusion, wishing to know whatwould be said.As soon as Roger had taken his dinner, he was shown intoan elegant room, where the gentleman sent him a quart ofale by the butler. No sooner had he set down the ale, thanRoger said, there comes one of them, intimating the bargainhe had made with the gentleman for the three quarts, whichthe butler took in a wrong light, and imagined it was him¬self. He went away in great confusion, and told his wife.“ Poor fool,” said she, “ the fear makes you think it is you hemeans, but I will attend in your place, and hear what he -willsay to me.” Accordingly, she carried the second quart, butno sooner had she opened the door than Roger cried, therecomes two of them. The woman, no less surprised than herhusband, told him the Spmman knew her too. “And whatwill we do,” said she, “we will be hanged.” “I will tellyou what we must do,” said she, “ we must send the groomthe next time, and if he is known, we must offer him a goodsum not to discover on us.” The butler went to William,and told him the whole story, and that he must go next tosee what he would say to him, telling him, at the same time,what to do, in case he was known also. When the hour wasexpired, William was sent with the third quart of ale, which,when Roger observed, ho cried out, there is the third andlast of them, at which William changed colour, and told himif he would not discovehon them, they would show him wherethey were all concealed, and give him five pounds besides.Roger, not a little surprised at the discovery he had made,told him if he recovered the goods, he would follow them nofurther.By this time the gentleman called Roger to know how hehad succeeded. He told him he could find the goods, butthat the thief was gone. “ I will be -well satisfied,” said he,“with the goods, for some of them are very valuable.” Letthe butler come along with me, and the whole shall be re¬covered. He accordingly conducted Roger to the back of thestable where the articles were concealed, such as silver cups,spoons, bowls, knives, forks, and a variety of other articles ofgreat value.11When the supposed Spaeman brought back the stolen goods,the gentleman was so highly pleased with Eoger, that he in¬sisted on his remaining with him always, as he supposed hewould be perfectly safe as long as he was about his house.Eoger gladly embraced the offer, and in a few days took pos¬session of a piece of land, which the gentleman had given tohim in consideration of his great abilities.Some time after this, the gentleman was relating to a largecompany the discovery Eoger bad made, and that he couldtell any thing; one of the gentlemen said he would dress adish of meat, and bet for fifty pounds, that he could not tellwhat was in it, and he would allow him to taste it. The betbeing taken, and the dish dressed, the gentleman sent forEoger, and told the bet was depending on him. Poor Eogerdid not know what to do; at last he consented to the trial.The dish being produced, he tasted it, but could not tell whatit was; at last, seeing he was fairly beat, he said, gentlemen,it is a folly to talk, the fox may run a while, but he is caughtat last, allowing within himself that he was found out. Thegentleman that had made the bet, then confessed that it was afox that he had dressed in the dish, at which they all shoutedout in favour of the Spteman, particularly his master, whowas more confident in him than ever.Eoger then went home, and so famous did he become, thatno one dared take any thing but what belonged to them,fearing that the Spa:man would discover on them.THE PEIEST AND THE EOBBEE.In the province of Ulster, about fifty years ago, there liveda priest whose life was spent in administering relief to thosein distress; so that by the amiableness of his character, hehad gained the respect and esteem of all the country round.He was sent for to a robber to prepare him for death, andwas shut up in a small chapel along with him. While endea¬vouring by the most pious persuasions to excite him to repen¬tance, he observed him apparently absorbed in thought, andpaying no attention to his discourse. “Are you aware,” saidthe priest, “ that you must soon appear before your greatCreator?”—“I know that,” returned the robber; “but Ialso know that you can save my life.”—“How can that be?”said the priest. “ You have only,” rejoined the poor wretch,“ to set your chair on the altar, and by your getting on it, Ican reach the top by the help of your shoulders.”—“And,”said the priest, “ do you think I shall be accessary to your12escape, which may be the means of your committing newcrimes?”—“Indeed,” said the robber, “you need not beafraid of that, I have seen the gibbet too near me to exposemyself to such danger again.” The priest, actuated by theimpulse of a feeling heart, and strengthened by the earnestprotestations of repentance in the unhappy criminal who wasabout to suffer, at length consented to favour his escape, andin a few minutes the robber was clear of the prison.Shortly after, the executioner came to warn the unfortunateman of his hour being come ; but what was his surprise whenhe opened the door, and found the priest sitting alone in thechapel. He immediately alarmed the judges, and broughtthem to the spot. “What is become of the prisoner,” saidthey, “that was left with you?”—“He must be an angel,”returned the priest coolly, “ for, upon the faith of a Christian,he flew out of the window,” pointing to the window in theroof of the chapel; “ and I am going to recommend myselfto his protection.” The judges could not preserve theirgravity at what they heard the good man relate, but wishingthe supposed angel a pleasant journey, went away.Some years after this, as the priest was travelling in thecounty of Wicklow, he lost his way, just as the sun had sunkbeneath the horizon. He was accosted by a sort of peasant,who, after examining him attentively, told him the road hewas travelling was a very dangerous one, and as the nighthad set in, if he would accompany him, he would conducthim to a house convenient, where he might pass the nightin safety.The priest was at a loss how to act; the curiosity visiblein the peasant’s conduct excited his suspicion, but consideringif he had a bad design in view, that it was impossible for himto escape, he with a trembling heart followed. They had notwalked far until they reached a farm-house, which the poorpriest beheld with joy; but the suspicion which the peasant’scuriosity had first raised in his breast, was entirely removedwhen he found he was the proprietor, and heard him tell hiswife to kill a capon, with some of her chickens, and to wel¬come his guest with the best cheer. Whilst the good womanwas preparing supper, the countryman came into the roomfollowed by a group of beautiful children. “ Pour forth yourgrateful thanks, my little children,” said he, as the tear ofgratitude started from his eye, “ for to this worthy man yourfather owes his existence.” The priest immediately recog¬nized the features of the robber, whose escape he had favouredsome years before; he inquired how he came to be so wellprovided for; on w'hich he related to him as follows :—13“ I told you if you assisted me in escaping I would lead anew life. I begged my way to this part of the country, whichis my native place, and engaged in the service of the ownerof this farm. By strict fidelity and attachment to the interestof my master, in a short time I gained his entire confidenceand esteem, and such was his regard for me, that he gave mehis only daughter in marriage. God has blessed my endea¬vours ever since, and I have amassed a little money, and Ientreat you to accept of it. I shall now die content, since Ihave had it in my power, by this small tribute, to testify mygratitude towards the man who saved my life.”“I am well repaid,” replied the priest, “ for the service Ihave rendered you, and prize your repentance more than allthe riches you can bestow. Continue in your present uprightcourse of life, and you will be rewarded hereafter.”The peasant pressed him to accept of soi..e recompense,but he would not; he consented, however, to remain a fewdays in the house, during all which time he entertained himwith the greatest hospitality.The time of the priest’s departure at last arrived. It waswith the greatest reluctance that the countryman could per¬suade him to make use at least of one of his horses to finishhis journey. The priest set out, and the peasant would notquit him until he had traversed the dangerous roads thatabound in those parts.MAC TURKHILL.Mac Tcekhili,, who from his earliest days was initiatedin all the vices of raparee, and the known violator of femalechastity, met in his walks with Miss O’Melaghlin, whosefather was the richest man in the country. Her charmsimmediately excited his desires; being a man of some propertyhimself, he had recourse to her father for the honour ofreceiving from him the hand of his fair daughter. Theanswer he received was, that the happiness of a female in amarried state depended on the temper, the morals, or charac¬ter of the husband—that till he was convinced that the suitor’sconduct would bear such a scrutiny, he would withhold hisconsent—and therefore concluded that if his daughter’s incli¬nations were not pre-engaged, and his character should appearamiable, he should be no hindrance to their mutual happi¬ness.Mac Turkhill had no reason to thank O’Melaghlin for theprudence of his conduct—he knew that his reputation wouldnot bear inquiry, but he determined to wait some days, in14the interval of which he made his arrangements for carryingMiss O'Melaghlin off by force. The banditti of white-boys,with whom he was in esteem, on account of the congenialityof his morals, promised to assist him, and to run all hazardsin promoting his success.Now ripe for mischief, and provided with the means toensure him the possession of Miss O’Melaghlin, he applies toher father for an answer.The reception he met with was such as he expected.O’Melaghlin told him that he could not sacrifice the happi-of his daughter by consenting to an alliance which he couldnot approve of, and which every tie of honour and honestyforced him to decline.Mac Turkhill heard him with a frown, and went off mutter¬ing revenge. The father being no stranger to the extrava¬gance of the pretended suitor, had every thing to fear fromhim. He therefore determined to remove his daughter to aplace of greater security, and placing her in his carriage,acquainted her with his motives, to which she gave a volun¬tary and eager consent. Mac Turkhill, who watched overhis motions, overtook him near the Gautty Mountains, in thecounty of Tipperary. His faithful band shot the horses ofthe carriage, whilst Mac Turkhill pistoled O’Melaghlin, andseized on his daughter, whom he hurried to his horse, andmounted her upon it after a long struggle with her. Hercries, her shrieks, her swoons, had no effect upon the monster;but mounting, he rode off with her at full gallop.Providentially a corps of free volunteers met him in hisflight, and melted with the shrieks of beauty in distress,determined on a rescue. Companions in guilt are seldomfaithful to each other—his own company fled and left himalone to engage with his enemies. Grown desperate withdanger, he shot the first that approached him, but as he wasdrawing out the second pistol, he received a shot in his head,and dropped down dead from the saddle. Miss O’Melaghlintumbled likewise on the ground in a swoon, but recovering,thanked her deliverers on her knees, and was escorted to herplace of residence by the generous corps of free volunteers.ANNE HONEY, THE FEMALE PIRATE.This woman was a native of the city of Cork. Her fatherwas an attorney, and by his activity in business rose to aconsiderable respectability in that place. Anne was the fruitof an unlawful connection with his own servant-maid, with15ivhom he afterwards eloped to America, leaving his wife inthis country.He settled in Carolina, and followed his own profession,but soon commenced merchant, and amassed a considerableproperty. There he lived with his servant in the characterof a wife, but she dying, her daughter superintended thedomestic affairs.During her residence with her father, she was supposed tohave a considerable fortune, and was accordingly addressedby young men of respectable situations in life. It happened,however, with her, as with many others of her sex, thather feelings and not interest determined her in the choice ofa husband;—she married a young seaman without a singleshilling.The avaricious father was so enraged, that, deaf to thefeelings of a parent, he turned his own child out of his house.Upon this cruel usage of her father, and the disappointmentof her fortune, Anne and her husband sailed for the Island ofProvidence, in hopes of gaining employment.She, however, acted a very different part from the charac¬ter of a virtuous woman. She left her husband, and fixedher affections on Captain Rackham, with whom she eloped.She had disguised herself in man’s clothes, to prevent dis¬covery ; but proving with child, the captain put her on shore,and intrusted her to the care of some friends until sherecovered, when she again accompanied him, disguised asformerly, in all his piratical expeditions.Upon the king's proclamation, offering a pardon to allpirates who would surrender themselves, he amongst otherssurrendered himself, and went into the privateering business.He soon, however^ embraced an opportunity of returning tohis favourite employment.In all his favourite exploits Anne accompanied him, anddisplayed the greatest courage and intrepidity. When theirship was taken, Anne, another woman, and a seaman, werethe last three that remained on board, Captain Rackhamhaving previously found means to escape on shore, but hewas apprehended and sent to prison.Anne was known to many of the planters in the Island ofJamaica, to which place she was conveyed, who rememberedto have seen her in her father’s house, and they were dis¬posed to intercede in her behalf. Her unprincipled conductin leaving her own husband, and forming an illicit connectionwith Captain Rackham, tended to render them less active inher favour.By a special favour, Rackham was permitted to visit her16the day before he was executed, but instead of condoling himon account of his hard fate, as might have been expected,she only observed that she was sorry to see him there, but ifhe had fought like a man, he need not have been hanged likea dog.Being with child, she remained in prison until her recovery,was reprieved, and set at liberty. She was by the interest otsome friends reconciled to her father, and lived a good lifeever after.JAMES BUTLER,James Butler was bred and born in Kilkenny, and in hispupilage was kept pretty much at school, but his learning didhim little service, though he spoke Latin very fluently. Whenhe arrived at man’s estate, he enlisted himself a soldier inLord Galway’s regiment, and went with the army to Spain,where he had not been long before he departed to theSpaniards as his favourite party; but meeting with someusage among them he did not relish, he soon grew tired of amilitary life, and gave the Spaniards the go-by also. Think¬ing himself in danger iu Spain, and not finding a convenientopportunity of returning home, his fancy led him to Anda¬lusia, where he set up as a mountebank, and had wonder¬ful success in raising his reputation and performing cures.At length he undertook the method of easing men of trouble¬some wives, who were taken to him by wholesale, and thisbrought more grist to his mill than any other part of hispractice. So great was his fame at last, that he outvied thefamous Dr. Thornhill, who offered to be his Merry-Andrew,upon condition that he would teach him his Irish assurance;but whether Thornhill did it to get rid of Ids competitor, ornot, I can’t tell, however it happened that he was discovered,and to prevent danger, made the best of his way to Venice,where he set up for conjuror, and not managing this businessso well as the former, success failed him, and he joined witha company of banditti.While he was in this company, they had the good fortuneto meet with a lusty fat mendicant friar, whom they robbed,taking from him the amount of £20,000, which he was goingto carry to Modena, for the late widow of King James II.Queen Dowager of England. The captain of the gang dividedthe booty, ordering Butler but a very small part, not half hisportion, which stomached him so much that he left them andwent to Florence: and by this time he had learned to speakboth Spanish ana Italian.i17While he was at Florence, hie cariosity led him to go toi see a man executed, where he singled out a young gentlemani with whom he had some confabulation, and among the resti of his discourse, he said, “The man was a fool for sufl'eringi himself to he taken.” At these words, the gentleman takingi him for a man of resolution, took him to a tavern, and havingI sounded him pretty well, offered him five hundred pieces ofgold to murder an uncle of his that he might enjoy his estate.Butler consented to the proposal, and went immediately toone of the banditti, with whom he agreed concerning themanner of the murder, and taking him along with him abouteleven o’clock at night, to the old man’s house, they made aquick dispatch of his life. This being done, and the rewardpaid them, as soon as Butler got a convenient opportunityhe likewise put an end to the young man’s life, to preventhim from discovering; and, for the same reason, in a littletime afterwards he murdered his comrade.But, having thus committed three murders, the rumourwhereof spread far and near, he grew a little afraid of hismother’s calf’s skin, and fled directly to Paris, where he soonfound means to introduce himself into Cartouch's gang, with1 whom he often went in quest of prey; but not always distri¬buting the booty equally, as he thought, he ventured to go outone fine morning alone, and taking notice of a young gentle¬man of Campaigne, who came to Paris on purpose to study,he met him and accosted him, pretending to be a scholaralso, and then taking him to the college of Navarre, he ledhim through the walks, on pretence of entertaining him withnew discourses, till they came to a remote corner, and thenrobbed him.But beginning to get too notorious in France, and not over-well liked by his comrades, he packed up his awls and went toHolland, and on his travels overtaking a genteel youngwoman, near Rotterdam, he began to make love, and grewvery sweet upon her. She seemed coy at first, but after some .discourse had passed, and upon further application, she agreedto pass for his wife. Not beings able to reach the Hague,they stopped short at an inn on the road, and after supperthey retired to rest.As soon as his supposed wife saw daylight, and perceivinghow soundly he slept, she rose, and, calling for her husband’sportmanteau, under pretence of getting out some linen, tookout of it two hundred and ninety pieces of gold, and orderedthe hostler to saddle her husband’s horse for her to go andpay a friend a visit, but took care to ride off, and let none ofthem hear any more of her afterwards.18When Butler awoke he threw' his arms about, expecting tograsp his dear mistress, but finding himself disappointed, inorder to make inquiry about her, and to know the time of theday, he called for his landlord, who told him his lady was avery early woman, having risen three or four hours before.Surprised at this news, he started up and ran to his portman¬teau, which, when he searched, he immediately found hownicely he was tricked, yet he could not find in his heart toasperse her, or much to blame her for herself, because helived by tricking. However, thus outwitted as he was, hesold his lady’s horse, and having paid the reckoning with theremainder of the money, he made the best of his way toEngland, where dame fortune forsaking him, the lady povertycame to pay him a visit, and would not be persuaded toabandon him till she had brought him to a very low ebb.Being reduced to this condition, he happened one day to pickup a fresh acquaintaince with Mrs. Impudence, who accom¬panied him and two others to King’s Gat§, in Grey’s InnLane, where they attacked and stopped a coach, but findinga vigorous resistance, were obliged to return in a hurry, andride off as fast as they could. However, Butler was pursued,taken, and committed to Newgate, but being only foundguilty of an assault, he was fined .£100 and confined twelvemonths.At length procuring his liberty, he fell to his old courseson the highway, in conjunction with one Nodes, an uphol¬sterer’s son, at Fleetditch, where they continued their depre¬dations for a length of time, and amassed a great deal ofmoney. Being warned in a dream, after a night of dreadfuldebauch and sensuality, of what his present wicked coursewould bring him to, and happening to hear a most impressivesermon on the suffering of the damned in hell, he at lengthdetermined to quit his sinful courses of life. He thereforerelinquished his iniquitous gain, dispensing it in charity, andreturned to his friends in Ireland, where he passed theremainder of his life in penance and mortification.JACK WITHERS.Jack’s father was a poor labourer in Athlone. Povertyand want of employment obliged his father to set off forDublin, and Jack accompanied him. In that seminary ofvice he became acquainted with some young pickpockets, and,imitating their conduct, he tvas detected and sent to Flandersas a soldier./19One day he went into the church at Ghent, during thetime of high mass, and observing them casting money into abox that stood under the image of the Virgin Mary, hewatched the favourable opportunity, picked the lock, filledhis pockets with the money and got off unobserved.But, afraid to repeat his depredafions in the same quarter,and unable to supply his extravagancies, he deserted hiscolours and returned to Ireland. Commencing robber on thehighway, he encountered a neighbour of his father’s whom heknew to be a great miser, and accosted him with, “ Stand anddeliver, or by the holy Saint Denis you are a dead man.”The miser began to plead poverty, which was evident fromhis appearance and clothes, his breeches, in which he retainedhis money, being as large as the hooped petticoat of a fulldressed lady. Jack, however, knew him well, and was notto be imposed upon with sham pretences. The old miser wasthen compounding, and offered one half to save the other.Jack enraged at this delay, threatened him with instantdeath; on which the miser pulled out his purse and spectacles,and putting them on, began to stare at Withers. “Why,d n your eyes, you old fool,” said Jack, “ is your sight sobad that you cannot see to deliver your purse ?” “ I may atleast see to whom I give it.” “Aye, aye, old boy; and when youlook at me again, you must supply me with such another sum.”Jack, and two of his companions, one morning returningfrom their depredations, espied a gentleman walking alone,and exhibiting all the gestures of passion, distraction, andfury; meanwhile casting his eyes towards heaven, stretchingforth his arms and folding them again. They imagined hewas about to plunge into the water from disappointed love orruined fortune.Jack went up to him and said, “Pray, sir, consider what youare going to do ! AVhat a sad thing will it be for you todrown yourself here? Be advised, and have better thoughtswith you.” “What is all this for?” said the gentleman, “I haveno intention of drowning myself. I am only a player gettingmy part.” “If I had known that, you might have hanged ordrowned yourself for me ; but to make amends for the trouble,you can do no less than give us your money.” They robbedhim of all he had.Some time after this, Jack and his companion, PatrickMurphy, attacked the postman carrying the south mail, whomthey not only robbed, but, to prevent discovery, cut his throat,ripped him up, filled his belly with stones, and threw him intoa pond. The body, however, was found next day, in ashocking state.30Jack and his associates now onca more returned to thecity, but it may be well imagined that their guilty consciencewould not let them rest.Having committed a robbery in the country, he and hiscompanions were both apprehended, tried and condemned.Jack was only twenty-four years of age when he suffered thepunishment due to his crimes. He confessed the horridmurder he had committed some weeks before.THE GENEROUS IRISHMAN.Lieutenant Fleming was the youngest son of a respectablegentleman in the county of Louth, and was sent at an earlyage on board a British man-of-war in the situation of mid¬shipman. He had a fine open manly countenance, an easyair, and a heart that diffused the irresistible charm of goodhumour over a tolerable set of features, setting at defianceboth ill-temper and ill-breeding.After an absence of twelve years, spent with honour tohimself and advantage to his country, having by his braveryand good conduct been promoted to the rank of lieutenant,he obtained permission to visit his native place. He had notbeen long seated on the top of the coach, before he perceivedthat his next neighbour was either very ill, or in great trouble,by several deep sighs which seemed reluctantly to force theirway from an overcharged bosom.His heart beat responsive to the sound; it was too dark todistinguish faces, nor did he recollect to have observed, onhis getting up, whether it was a male or a female next tohim, nor was that a consideration: he chewed his quid some¬time in silence, till a sudden violent jolt of the coach drewforth a faint shriek from a female voice, and threw her in con¬tact with the lieutenant’s shoulder.“Avast,” cried he, “take care how you steer, or we mayall roll over, d’ye see; besides here seems to be one longsidenot able to stem the upsetting. Take courage, my good lass,lean against me and welcome; we shall soon come into someport.”“ You are very kind, good sir,” answered a feeble voice;“I am, indeed but little able to bear the motion of the carriage,much less the sudden shakes, but I will be better by and by.”“I hope so, I hope so,” rejoined the lieutenat, “we shallget into smooth ivatcr immediately, when we are off thestones.”21No answer was returned, and a dead silence ensued untilthey came to the first stage of changing horses.Fleming, on the appearance of the light, turned to look athis neighbour, and beheld the pale skeleton of a young wo¬man, who seemed fast sinking into the grave, and scarcelyable to sit upright. “ Odds, my life, poor soul,” said he,“you seem to want ballast, it will never do to steer thiscourse—why did you not steer into the cabin? ”“ Because, because,” replied she tremulously, “ it was notconvenient I have more air here.”“ Yes, yes; but a few' such squalls as we had some time ago,may turn you overboard: you are not steady enough, my goodlass, to keep your course here.”He then called for some grog and biscuits, and jumped offto look in at the windows of the coach.“Ay, ay, here’s plenty of room; here, you steersman, openthe coach door, and let us help that poor young woman intothis berth.”“Why, I have no objection, master,” answered the coach¬man, “ but you know outside and inside passengers are dif¬ferent things—who’s to pay the difference of the fare?”“ Why, I will,” cried Fleming.“ No, no,” exclaimed the invalid, “I entreat you, Sir, I amvery well here: indeed I am—I will not get inside—prayleave me as I am.”“ Look ye, young woman,” returned the lieutenant, “ youare upon a slippery forecastle, you may be hove overship in thedark, and founder before help can come to ye. So no morewords, my conscience wont let me see you in danger, for Ishant sit easy with you at my stern; so do, my good soul, letme put you safe under hatches, out of the way of the squallsand foul weather.”The poor young woman saw it was in vain to contend withher humane neighbour, and however repulsive to her ownfeelings to accept the obligation, she was as little calculated tosupport the fatigues of her situation as unable to pay the ad¬ditional expense. She, therefore, with tears dropping on hercheeks, silently permitted herself to be placed in the coach,nor did she reject the biscuit, though she declined the grog.“ Mayhap,” said he, “ a gill of warm wine will do you moregood; and, without waiting a reply, he dashed off, and pre¬sently returned with it, entreating her to drink of it. Not todisappoint him, she sipped a small quantity, and pressing hishand said, “ God bless you.”The manner and the words shot through the heart of thepoor lieutenant; but a summons from the coachman to resume22his place, cut short all further conversation, and he jumped upinto his berth, after tossing off his glass of grog, which hefound very necessary to recruit his spirits.When they stopped at the inn to dine, Fleming handed outhis sick friend, with equal respect and tenderness; nor did heneglect offering his hand to three other females in the coach,one of which only accepted of it; the other two threw uptheir heads, and coldly declined his assistance.Fleming was not a man of observation, he knew nothing ofthe world or the human heart; he had no idea that he couldhave given any offence by showing humanity to a fellow-crea¬ture, or committed an unpardonable insult, by “ stowing asick outside passenger in the cabin.”He gave his arm to the young woman, and conveyed herinto a room, where she was scarcely seated, before, to hisgreat dismay, she fainted, and he loudly vociferated for assis¬tance.By the endeavours of the landlady, and the smelling-bottleof the lady who had deigned to accept Fleming’s offered hand,the poor invalid soon recovered, and he left her to their care,whilst he “ examined into the state of the locker. ” A fiuepiece of roast beef and a giblet pie were just going smokinghot to the table; but though the scent was perfectly agreeableto him, he had consideration enough to think it might be toopowerful for a sick stomach. He, therefore, asked if they hadany new laid eggs, with a tart or two for the poor young wo¬man in the other room.“Yes, sir,” replied the landlady, “we can give her a coupleof eggs and a nice custard in a trice; but—a—as these eggsare not provided for the coach passengers, we shall expectthem to be paid extra for.”“Very well,” returned he, “carry them in, and I will payyou for them.”He went back and told the invalid she should have an eggbrought to her, and as soon as he had swallowed a few mouth¬fuls of beef, he would come to her again. Tears were heronly answer, and he darted away, followed by the lady.“ I admire your humanity, sir,” said she, “ for I find youare an entire stranger to the young woman.”“I don’t know what she may be,” answered he, stoppingand bowing to the speaker, “but what of that? you see sheis very sick, poor soul, and it is our duty to help forward afellow-creature. She is bad enough, anil 1 fear will soon bein that port from whence there is no return.”“ I fear so, too,” rejoined the lady, “ and it is from thenceI feel so much to admire in your kindness. Young men in23this age rarely bestow favours on females nithout a view ofself-gratification of some kind or other.”Before he could reply, they were summoned to dinner.Fleming, much pleased with the lady’s kindness to the sickgirl, and attention to himself, was particularly assiduous forher accommodation, without intending any slight to the others,or observing their haughty or indignant looks.And here it is impossible to refrain from observing howmuch our own comforts in life depend upon our attention tothose of others. The two ladies whose humanity was notproof against the affront of having an outside passenger, whosedress was as humble as her pretensions, obtruded on them sounceremoniously by a lieutenant, whose wrapping great coatdemonstrated that he was no great things, and equally lowbred and impertinent, had sat in disdainful silence till theyarrived at the inn, when their anger burst forth into scornfulobservations, and a reprimand to the coachman for admittingsuch a low creature into their society, who had taken insideplaces.“As to low or high,” answered the man, “so they pay methe full fare, it is one and the same thing to me. Besidesthe poor young woman was mortal bad, and he was a good-hearted fellow that offered to pay the fare, and all passengersare .alike to me.”“ Then you ought never to have people of consequence inyour coach, fellow, if you don’t know how to behave your¬self.”“ I know very well how to behave myself, I don’t want toaffront nobody,” returned coachy, “the young woman wasa clean decent body, and as good as others, for the matter ofthat, seeing her fare will be paid.”“ Don’t be impertinent, fellow, it is plain you care not howyou insult the ladies, so you can be paid. You would nothave taken her into the coach without being sure of yourmoney, though you presume to force her upon us.’’“That’s another sort of a thing. I pities the poor thing,and would serve her with all my heart, but the coach ismaster’s property, and musn’t chouse him of his fare. Butwha’t signifies words about it, she is an inside passengernow, and by St. Patrick he’s an honest lad that lent her ahand.”The insulted ladies found it in vain to contend, theyencouraged each other in the idea of affronted consequence,and displeased that their companion had follotved the two lowcreatures, they determined to send her to Coventry, andpreserve an indignant silence in the coach.24These wise resolutions accompanied them to the dinnertable, when, to their great surprise, they beheld the lieu¬tenant’s uniform, and a figure, now disencumbered of an oldwrapping coat, that he did not blush to exhibit in the mostfashionable circles in the kingdom, though it wanted thepolish of high life.PADDY AND THE PRIEST.A priest in the neighbourhood of Cork, fancying that the“dues” at confession were insufficient remuneration for thepardons he granted, told his congregation that in future hewould not hear confessions, unless the “compliment” wasincreased. This, of course, created a great sensation in hisparish ; some murmured, a few remonstrated, and others ab¬sented themselves from the confessional altogether. Amongstthe latter was Darby Donovan. “ Hilloa, Darby,” said thepriest, one morning, spying Darby sneaking along the side of aditch to avoid a meeting. “Hilloa, Darby! is that you.”“Oh! thin, is it yer reverrence? I hope yer reverrence,and all belonging to yer reverrence is well. It’s a good stepto Blarney, and my sister’s child’s sick in it, so as its contraryto yer reverrence I’m going, I’ll wish you a plasant day.”“Stay, Darby,” called the priest—“What’s the reason youhave not been to confession lately ?” “ Plaze yer reverrence,”said Darby, scratching his head, “I’ve never been able toaffoord it since the grace of God riz.”READY WIT.A traveller, fond of a joke—a corpulent, jolly-lookingfellow—taking a walk in company with one of his customers,met a “rough, rude, ready-witted” Hibernian driving a smallcart, drawn by a jackass, when the following dialogue ensued:—“Well, Pat, what kind of an animal is this you have got!”“ Arrah, now, don’t be after denying your friends when youmeet with them. Sure you have not forgot your cousin, Mr.Jack Ass.” “Oh ho! so you deal among asses.” “Well, introth I do, Sir.” “ And what is the price of a good one justnow?” “In troth, Sir, that greatly depends on their appear¬ance; a little jacky like this un might be got for a pound;but, by japers, a big fat cuddy like yourself would cost thurtyshillans!”