i *^>4;!❖ '?v^ ‘&THEUS IP Ha ®'41-^P □OF<>S4-^)-WISK WILLIEA NOX,.Irilty Epfiie, the Ale-Wife of4-❖•0-;*4>BUCKHAVEN-WITH•fj-' A Description of their College and Coat ofr*&Arms, Lang Sandy and KolicoughingJenny’s Wedding, &c» &c. &o.<;**%iiii-■❖<><>■**VGLASOOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.❖IIs>4-•55-4-v>u5thef] I S T O R YOFWISE WILLIR, AXD WITTY EPThe Ale-Wife.PART LMO MG ST several aitcient old retthis Bucky is not mentioned. 1'hera sect called Buccaneers, who weirates, (that is to say sea robbers)strict search being made for thesrobbers, they were dispersed.—W1them escaped in the southern cliiare said to shelter at or near Heron-Tweed. Having differed among tselves, a smart battle ensued, after vthey divided ; and it is said, the ]who gained this Bucky battle, fe;the English law would take place,set northward, and took up theirdeuce at Bucky-haven, so called, no]y on account of the great quantithbuckies that are found in and abomplace, but on account of the battlehad with their neighbours at Berv\when they divided, which they cabucking one another, but now naboxing or fighting. Another partthose Buckets settled in a fishing t<snear Banff, called Btickv, and near theriver Spey, which is now a pretty largesea-town. But among all the sea-townsin Scotland, the fishers stdl retain a lan¬guage quite different from the people inthe country ; and always they shift theletter II, and use O instead thereof, whichno country-people in Scotland do butthemselves. "Jbeie is a corruption ofspeech in every country over all Britain,and likewise they use different tones andways of pronouncing words from others;even some in the south of Scotland canhardly be understood by those in thenorth, tho’ both pretend to speak goodEnglish, and have a liberal part of edu¬cation : But since learning is now soeasy to be obtained, ignorance and cor¬ruption of speech are greatly decreased.In the county of Fife, on thesea-coast,there stands a little town, inhabited byfew but fishers, called Bucky-harbour,because of sea-buckies and shells tobe found so plenty on the rocks aboutthat place. There is little mentionmade of this town by Historians, toknow its original extraction and antiqui¬ties, but in their own Burges-Ticket,which was partly perfect truth, but moreof it by way of lampoon. 'I his Ticketwas dated the two-and-thirtieth day ofthe month of Julius Caesar. Their Coat4of Arms was two hamls gripping cadiother over a Scale’s rumple. Their oathwas, “ I wish that de De’il may tak me,an I binna an honest man to \ou, an yebinna de like to me.” An article ofgood neighbourhood they had, whoeverwas first up in a good morning, was toraise all the rest to go to sea ; but if avery bad morning, piss and go to bedagain till break of day, then raise WiseWilly, who could judge of the weatherby the blawing of the wind.—Their free¬doms were, To take all sorts offish con¬tained in their Tickets, viz., Lobsters,partons, podlies, spout-fish, sea-cats,sea-dogs, flucks, pikes, dick-podoeks, andp—fish.Again, these people are said to havedescended from one Tom and his twosons, who were fishers on the coast of 1blown over, and got ashor^ .1harbour, where they settled; and thewhole of his children were called Thom- jsons, and soon became a little town by |themselves as few of any other namedwelt among them. This is a traditionalstory, handed down from one generationto.another.—They kept but little com¬munication with country people aboutthem, fora farmer, in those days, thoughthis daughter cast away, if she married jNorway, who in a violent6one of the fishers in rUicky'hru bour; andon the other hand, Witty Eppie, the ale-wife, wad a sworn, Be-go, laddie, I wadrather see my boat an a’ my three sonsd-iJet against the Bass, or I saw ony anoo’ them married to a muck a-byre’sdaughter; a whin useless tappies, it cando naething but rive at a tow rock, andcut a corn ; they can neither bait a hooknor rade a line, honk sand-eels, nor ga*ther pirriwinkels.Now, W ise Will ie and witty Eppie theale wife, lived there about a hundredyears ago. Eppie’s Chamber was theirCollege and Court-house, where they de¬cided controversies, and explained theirwonders; for the house was like a littlekhh, had four windows and a gayle door;the wives got leave to flyt their fill, butr* t i • _ 1 • i ». • T"* • • awas a pint o' ale, ami kppie saie'd it ata plack the pint. They had neitherminister nor magistrate, nor yet a bur-lev-bailie, to brag them wi’ his Tolbooth.The Lord o’ the Manor decided all dis¬putable points, and Wise Willie andWitty Eppie, the ale-wife, were the rul¬ers of the town.Now, Eppie had a daughter, she ca’dher Lingle-taH’d Nancy, because of herfeckless growth ; het wai&t was like aatwitter, liad nae curpen for a cree], be-mtr Edinburgh bred, and brought up wi’ber Loudin aunty, was learned to read,and sew, made coarse claiths, andcallicoeimmcocs ; there was nae a scholar in tlietown but liersel, sh.e read the Bible andthe Book of kiik sangs was newly comein fashion. Willy and Eppietell'd themay what it meant, and said a’ the lettersin it was litted by my Lord, for theysaw him hae a feather that he dipped inblack water, and made crooked scores,just like the s>me ; and then he spokeo’er again, anil it teilM him what to say.1. Jt happened on a day, that two oftheir wives, near the town, found a horse¬shoe, and brought it home, and sent forWillie to see what it was : Willie comesand looks at it ; Indeed, co’ Willie, it’sa thing and holes in’t ! I kent, co’ they,he wad get a name till’t. A’ ho ! co’Willie, whar did ve find it ? Aneath mvLord’s ain house, Willie. Adeed, saidWillie, it’s the auld moon, I ken by theholes in’t, for nailing it to the lift; buti winder if she fell in Fife, for the lasttime it I saw her, she was hinging onher hack about Edinburgh. A-hech co’Willie, we’ll set her upon the highesthouse in the town, and we’ll hae moon¬light o’ our ain a’ the days o’ the year.The whole town ran to see the moon !j ITaut tout, said Witty F.pple, ye’re buti a’ fools the^Ither ; it’s but ane o' thethings it my Lord’s mare wears upon herlute-2. At another time one of the wivesfound a hare with its legs broken, lyingi among her kail in the yard: Site notknowing what it was, called out to herneighbour to see it. Some said it was aGentleman’s cat; or my Lady’s lap dog,or a sheep’s young kitlen, because it hadsaft horns : Na, na, cried Wise Willie,it’s ane o’ the maukins it gentlemen’sdogs worries.—What will we do wi’t ?Staith, co’ they all, we’ll sing the woo’aff, and make fish and sauce o’t to myr Tammie’s paarich. Na, na, said WittyEppie, better gie’t to my Lord, an’he’ilstap an iron stick through the guts a’t,an’ gar’t rin round afore the fire till itbe roasted. Na, na, said Wise Willie,we’ll no do tint indeed ; for my Lordwadmak us a’ dogs an* gar usiin throughthe country seeking maukins for him.3. It happened in a dark winter morn¬ing, that two of their wives were goingto Dysart to sell their fish ; and on theroad side there happened to be sometinker’s ass tathered.—The poor ass see¬ing the two wives coming with theircreels, thought it was the tuikers com¬ing to flit or relieve him, fell a cryingj8 !the twn wives threw their fish away, amiran home like mad persons, crying theyhad seen the de’il, ay, the very hornedde’il, and that he spoke *to them, butthey did na ken what he said, for it wasworse than a highlandman’s ; the wholetown was in an uproar; some would gowith picks and spades, and hagg him inpieces ; others wad go and catch him ina strong net, and then they could eitherhang or drown them. Na, na, co’ >V ise Willie, we manna cast out wi’ himat the first, as he’s gotten the twa bur¬dens o’ fish, lie’ll e’en gang his wa’ an’|no fash us nae mair ; he is o’er souple tobe catch’d in a net; a’ your pith willneither hang him nor drown him, andthe kintry he comes fiae, is a’ het coals, *he’d never burn : We’ll go to him in acivil manner, and see what he wants. 1Get out Witty Eppie, the ale-wife, and *Lingle-tail’d Nancy, wi’ the Bible and !Psalm-Book. So aff they came in acrowd |either to kill the de’il or catch him alive:.And as they came, near the place, theass fell p-crying, which caused many of ;them to faint and run back. Na, na, co’Willie, that’s nae the de’ils words at a’,it’s my Lord’s trumpeter touting on hisbrass whistle. Willie ventured tdl hesaw the ass’s twa lugs. Now, cried Willie .back to the rest, come forward an’ had9him fast! I see his tvva horns ; hech,sirs, he has a white beard like an auhlbeegar man ! So they inclosed the poorass on all sides, thinking it was the de’il;but when Wise Willie saw he had naecloven feet, he cried out, Scania lads,this is no the de’il, it’s some liv ing beast;it’s neither cow nor horse. An’ whatis’t then, Willie ? Indeed co’ Willie,it’s the father o’ the maukins, i ken by. its lang lugs.Now, some say this history is too sati-rieal; hut it is according to the know¬ledge of those times, not to say anyplace by another. The old wives willtell you yet of many such stories, of thedevil appearing to their grandfathers andgrandmothers; and dead wives comingback again to visit their families long-after being dead : So this Buck-havenwas once noted for droll exploits ; but itis row become more known, and a placesaid to produce the hardiest watermen,or sailors, of any town on the Scots coast,"'let, many of the old people in it stillretain the old tincture of their ancientand uncultivated speech, such as, Be-goladdie ; they are also of a ficuy nature,for if you ask any of their wives, wheretheir College stands, they’ll tell you, ifyour nose were in their a—, your mouthwould be at the door of it.104. Now, it happened when Wise Willieturned old, he took a great swelling mhis vvame and casting up his kail, col-lops. and cauld tish, that nothing couldstand on his stomach ; and a stout sto¬mach had he, for crabs heads, and scate-broe, or brose in a bridal morning ; yetit fail’d him, and he fell sick. Nonecould cure him, nor tell what ail’d him,till a mountebank stage doctor came toKirkaldy, that could judge by people’s . |piss, the trouble of their person.—Wise iWillie hearing of 1m fame, pissed intoa bottle, and sent it away with his daugh¬ter.—The bottle being uncorked, hisdaughter spilt it by the way ; and to con¬ceal her sloth in so doing, pissed in it j|herself, and on she goes, till site cameto the stage-doctor, when she cried outaloud, Sir doctor. Sir doctor, here is abottle of my father’s wash, he has a sair jguts, and needs na’ drite ony, but spuesa’ be eats, it’s true I tell you, my dow.The doctor looks at it, then says, It’s notyour father’s, surely it’s your mother’s.The de’ds itha man, said she, divna Iken my father frae my mother. Then,said he, he is with child. 'The de’dsitha man, co’ she, for my mither bare a*de bairns before, dat’s no true, sir ; figsye’re a great liar. Maine she comes,and teli’d Willie, her father, that the11doctor said he was wi’ bairn. O warsme, co* Willie, for I haea muekle wame,and I fear it’s o’er true. O jjlague onyon; Janet! for ve’re the father o’t, an’I’m sure to die in bearing o’t. WittyEppie was sent for, as she was a houdie;an’ she fand a’ Willie’s wame, to be sureabout it. Indeed, co’ Eppie, ye’re thetirst man e’er 1 saw wi’ bairn before,an’ ho\T you’ll bear it I dinna ken, yehae a waliy wame, well I wat; but howmen bear banns l dinna ken : But [would drink salt sea-water, and drown itin my guts ; for if men get ance the gateo’ bearing wreans themselves, they’ll seekna® mair wives. So Willie drank sea¬water till his guts was like to rive, andout he got to ease himself in the kail¬yard, and with the terrible noise of hisfarting, up starts a maukin behind him,who thought it was shot : Willie seeingher jump o’er the dike, thought it was achild brought forth, and cries out, Comeback, my dear, and be christened, anddinna rin to the hills to be a Pagan. iSoWillie grew better every day thereafter,being brought to bed in the kail-yard ;but his daughter was brought to bedsome months after, which was the cause*f the doctor’s mistake.12P A ii T IX.1. Now, \Y iso Willie had a daughter Icalled [lolling Coughing Jenny, becauseshe spake thick, sax words at three times,ha’f sense, ha’f nonsense, as her own re¬cords will bear witness. She being wi*child, was delivered of a bonny lassie jand all the wives iu the town cried out,lie-go» laddie, it’s just like its ain father.Pang Sandy Taeon, (or Thomson,) weken be its nose; for Sandy had a greaticacrdo red nose, like a lobster's tae,bovr&d at the point like a hawk’s neb jaad finely hunaeif said, that it was surelyIns, Q! some other body’s; but he hadused s’ his birr at the getting o’t, to tryhie abilities, being the first time e’er hewas at sic a business before ; and whenhe had done a’ that man could do at it,he saki it was nonsense ; an’ shame fa,him, but he would rather row his boatfound the Bass an’ back again, or he‘d jdo the like again : for Wise Willy glidewude at the wean, an’ said it had mairill-nature iu’t, than theauldest wife aboutthe town ; for it pissed the bed, and shitthe bed, skirl'd like a wild cat, anti kepthim frae his night's rest; and the autdhaggs about the town caM him Sandy,tLe bairn's daddy; and a’ the young"tfjHkgNiijMr.• IISgillw^auky luftsios tick! o«t their tinge-raand cjietU Th?, hie, hie, Saiuiy, the ktt kwill kittle your lups for tltat: An’ aftera’, the bkar-ey’d bell-man came b!ad-derinp about the buttock-meal, summon¬ed him and her before the holy band, acourt that was held in the kirk on Sun¬day-morning ; and all the herd laddiesround about, cried. Ay, aye, Sandy, paythe bull-siller, or we’ll cut the cow’s tailawa’. So poor Sandy suffered sadly inthe flesh, besides the penalty and Lu kpenance.£. But W iso Willie had pity on them,and gade wi’ them to the Kirk-court,what learned folk call the Session. Jencywas first called upon, and in she goes,where a' the haly band was convened,elders and younger deacons, and dog-pay¬ers keeping the door, the cankardestcarls that could be gotten between l)y-sart and Dubyside, white heads and baldheads sitting wantin’ bonnets, v;i’ then-white headed staves and hodden-greyjockey-coats about them.Mess John says. Come away, Janet,we’re waiting on you here.Min. Now Janet, where was lliia child gotten ?you must tell us plainly.Jan. A deed sir, it was gotten among frho blackstune®, ut the cheek o' the crab holes.Mess John stares at her, not knowing14the place, but Rome of the elders did.Then sard he, O Janet but the devil wasbusy with vou at that time.Jfm. A by my fi g«, sir, tbat’s a great lie ye'reteliin now, for the de'il was nae there that I saw,mrr ony body else, to bid us do ae thing or asitlier ;we lo’ed ithtr unco well for aiang time before Unit,an’ syne we teli'd itlar, an’ ’greed to marry itber,like honest folk ; then tn.gbt nu we learn to do thething nrarrred folk do, without the de’il helping us.Vtliisht, whisht, cried they, ye shouldbe scourg’d, fa its e loon quein it thou is,ye're speaking nonsense.Jan. De de’iis f the cnrtes, for you aad yourminister# is liars, when ye say it ic da de'il it washelping Sandy and me to get de buirn.Come, come, said they, paydown theKi k-dues, and come back to the stooltb* morn ; tbe price is four {Hand, and agroat to the beii-man.Jan. 1 be auld thief speed the darth o’t *’r, farlew might sair you and your bell man baith. O hutthis be a warldindeed, when pmw honest Colks maunpay for making use o’ their owu a —: Ye misca’tl»e poor de'il a-hiiit his back, and gi’es him dfwyte o’ a’ de ill in de kintry, bastard bairns, andevery thing ; an’ if it be sse as ye say, ye may thankde de’il for that four pond and a groat I ha’egi’en ye; that gai's your pot play brawn, an’ getsyou jockey coats, an’ purl-handed sarks, an’ white-headed staves, when my father’s pot wallops uprough beer and blue vvuter.I ke woman i« imtd, said they, for thismoney is all given t« the poor of thepaiish.ISJan. The poor o’ the parish ! *akJ »he ; Art aheit ye gi e them but wee pickles o’ pease meal,didna 1 see’t in their pocks i and the mister’s wifegi’es naethingava to unco beggars, but bids themgang hame to their ain parishes; and yet ye'll fckthe purse frae poor folks for naething but playingthe loon a wee or they be married, an’ syne cockthem up to be looked on an’ laughed at by everybody: a de’il speed you an’ your justice, sir.Ilute, tute, ye’re a’ coming on me like a wheencolly dogs bunting awa’ a poor ragget chapmanfrae the door. So out she goes cursing andgreeting.—Sandy is nc-xt called upon, and in ke goes.Min. Now’, Sanders you must tell us how thischild was gotten ?San A now, Mess John, sir, ye hae bairns o’your ain, howr did you get them ? But yours are a’laddies, and mine is but a lassie ; if you’d tell mohow you got your laddies. I’ll tell yeu how 1 gotmy lassie, au’ than we’ll be baith alike good o' shobusiness.The Minister looks at him, aad says.Mute, tute, Sanders, laydown four pund.and a groat, and come back to-morrowto the stool and give satisfaction to thecongregation; you had more need to beseeking repentance for the abominablesin of uncleanness than speaking so to me,San. Well, here’s your siller, sir, I hae gotten butpoor penny-worths for’t.an ye tell me to repent fbr't;what the auld thief needs 1 repent when I’m ^aunto marry the woman,an’ than 1 hae to do’t o’er againevery day, or there’ll be nae peace in the house;tigs it’s nonsense to pay siller, rep*nt, an’ do't againtoo, a fine advice indeed, master Minister !that’s the way the like o’ ye live.16Wise Wink). Now, sir, iw>' you master e-klers, yemnumia put tiiem on the black creepy till they bemarried, they've suffered enough at ae time.A-weel, a-weel, said they, but theymust marry very soon.I true, says Sandy, ye’ll be wantingmair clink: foul han’t ve do for naethinghere.Hame comes Sandy, starving o’ hun¬ger, ye might have casten a knot on hislang guts. His mither was baking peasebannocks, up lie gets a lump of her laveninto his mouth. Auld thief be in yourhaggies-bag, Sandy, says his mither,Kirk-touk are ay greedy ; ye hae been\vi’ the Minister a’ day; ye’tl get aguidlang grace, he might a gien ye meat too:flthy dog that thou is, thou haes the bulko’ a little pie o’ my leaven in your guls;it wad a eaird ane’s dinner, sae wad ite’en, but an ye keep a reekin’ house ana routing cradle three eleven years, a*. Ihae done, less o’ that will serve you yet,bagging beast itu is, mair it I bore theenow, a hear ye that my dow.The next exploit was an action at law,against the good-man of Muiredge, afarmer who lived near by, that kt pt sheepand swine. id is sheep came down andbroke their yards, and ate up their kail ;the wild hares they thought belonged tothe same man, as they ran to his house17when they were hunt cm L Tlic swinecame very often in about their houses,seeking fish guts and any thing they couldget : So it happened, when one of thechildren was sitting easing itself, that oneof the swine tumbled it over, and bit apiece out of its backside! The wholetown rose in an uproar against poorgrunkie, and they caught her, and takesher before Wise Willie- Willie took anaxe and cut two or three inches off herlong nose. Now, says Willie, I trow Ihae made thee something like anotherbeast ; thou had sic a king mouth before,it wad a frighted a very de’il to look atve, but now ye’re fac’d like a little horseor cow. The poor sow ran home roar¬ing, all blood, and wanting the nose :which caused Muiredge to warn them inbefore my Lord. So the wives'that hadtheir kail eaten appeared first in theCourt, complaining against Muiredge.Indeed, my Lord, said they, Muiredgeis no a good man, when he is sic an illneighbour ; he keeps black hares andwhite hares, little woe brown-backedhares wi’ white arses, an louse wagginghorns ; they creep in at our water gushheles an does the like : When we crypussie, pussie, they rin ha me to Muir-edtfe : But I’ll gar my colly bad th»rafast by the fit, an I’ll had lUom by the18horn, an pu' the hair a(T them, and send’em liame wanting the skin, as he ‘did wi’Sowen Tammie’s wee Sandy, lor codino’ his pease, he took aff the poor laddie’scoat, an sae did he e’en. And Williesaid, If ye were a sow, my Lord, an mesitting driting, an you to bite my arse;sudna I hae amends o’ you for that tOd, my Lord, ye wadna hae a bit out o’your arse for twenty marks : Ye maune’en gar Muiredge gie ten marks to buya plaster, to heal the poor bit wean’s arseagain.Well said, Willie, says my Lord ; butwho puts on the sow’s nose again ?A fegs, my Lord, said Willie, she’shonester like wantin it, an she’ll bite naemae arses wi’t: An ye bad bane a nosemy Lord, as lang as the sow had, ye’dbeen obliged to ony .body it wad cut apiece af’t.4. A Gentleman coming past neartheir town, asked one of their wiveswhere their College stood? Said she,Gie me a shilling, an I’ll let you seebrtith sides o't. He gives her the shilling,thinking to see something curious. Now,said she, there’s tlte one side ofyour shil¬ling, and there’s the other ; so it’s minenow.Now, Wise Willie being greatly ad¬mired for hi* just judgment in cutting19off the sow’s nose, my Lord* in a modc-in^ manner, made him buriy-bailie ofBuckhaven Lang Sandy was Provost,and John Thrums the weaver was deanof guild, But Wittv Eppie had ay Umcasting vote in a’ their courts and con¬troversies.PART III.1. There happened one day a running horseto !*e standing at one of their doors, and a child* going about, the horse tramped upon the child’sI loot, which caused the poor child to cry : Thet mother came running in a passion, crying, A' wa^ be to you fora horse, filthy barbarian brute!il t’bu is, setting your niuckle iron lufc on mybairn’s wee fittie. Od, stir, I’ll rive the hair outi o’your head, gripping the horse by the mane: and the twa lugs, cuffing his chafe, as lie hadi been her fellow-creature, crying Be-go, laddie,[ I’ll gar yon as good, I’ll tak you afore WiseWiilie the baitte, an he’ll cut aff your hand wi’de Ison Info, an ye’ll be cripple, an gang thro’the kintry in a barrow, or on twa shul staves,like Rub the randy, an a meal pock about yourneck. — Her neighbour wife hearing an seeingwhat past, cries, O you fool taupy, what garsyou speak that gate till a horse '1’ He disna kenae word that ye’re sayin till him.2, When Lang Sandy and IlolincoughiugJenny weremarried, their wedding took up threedays and two nights. My Lord, and my Lady,with ireceral other ladies and gentlemen, atten-j dtxl for diversions sake. The piper uf Kirkcaldyand the fidlcr of Kinghorn were '"o‘.h bidilcn byWise Willie, the bride's father; and if nr,\- morecame to play unbidden, Willie swore they shouldsit unsair’d, for these twa sud get a’ do siller datwas to begi’en or win. That day the dinner anddorter-meat satin Eppie’s College, and the danc¬ing stood in twa rings before the door: andthe first day, thedunting and dangling of theirheels dang down the sea-dyke ; some stumbledin, and some held by the stones; the fidler fellin o’er the lugs, and druckit a’ his fidle, theher strings ga’ed out o’ order, and the tripesturn’d salt like pudding skins; so the piper hadto do for a’, and the fidler had naething to dobut sup kail and pick bancs wK the rest of them.Now, my Lord’s cook was to ortfer the kettle,but lang Pata o’ the pans play’d a sail prat- bycasting twa pound of candle among the kail,which made them so fat that some could not supthem, and the candle wicks came ay into theircutties, like souter’s bugles in the dishes, but▼/ad be blyth o’ sic n string to tie up their hosein a pinch. My Lord and the gentry, MessJohn and the Clerk, were all placed at the headof the table, opposite the bride, but would supnone of the candle kail. Wise Willie and the,bridegroom served tlu? table, and cried, Sup,jan’ a sor row to yc, for I ne’er liked sour kidlabout my house. When the flesh came, thebride got n ram’s rumple to pick : She Inks it upand wags it at tny Lord, saying, Ti-hic, myLord, what an a piece is this ? O, said my Lord,!time’s the tail piece, it belongs to you bride. It's;ik) mine, 1 never had the like o’t; it’s a fi»b-tuil#!2\sgo ns it wruTo, but it’s n bit o’ soroo (foixl boast.O yos, said he, bride, you have hit it now ; buthow came you to eat with your gloves on ? In¬deed, my Lord, there’s a reason for dat too ; Iscabbed hands.—(), said he, I cannot believeyou. She pulled off a part of the glove, andshewed him. O yes, said he, I see it is so.Acha, said she, but I wish ye saw my a—*, myLord, it’s a’ in ae hotter. O fy, William, saidmy Lord, I wonder you don’t teach your daugh¬ter to speak w’th more modesty. Be my sae, myLord, yc may as well kiss her a—e. I find so,said my Lord, but it is for want of a teacher.The next dish that was set on the table, wasroasted hens: and the bride’s portion being laidon her plate, she says to my Lord, Will ye letme dip my fowl a—e amang vour sauce P Uponmy word said my Lord, I will not, if it be as youtell me. Hntc, my Lord said the bride, it’s naemy a* e, it’s but de hen’s I mean.—O but, saidbe, it’s the fashion for every one to eat off theirown trencher, you may7 get more sauce,' I canmanage my own myself. Indeed, my Lord,said she, I thought you liket me better nor onyither body True, said be, but I like yon shouldnotspeakill of my Lady, forshehenrsmyself best.Deed, my Lord, I think ye’re the best body aboutthe house, for your Lady’s but a stinking pride-fu’ jade, she think that we sud mak de fish ande baddies a’ alike; bc-go, my Lord, she thinkswe can shape them as de hens does their eggswi’ their a—e. O bride, says he, you should notspeak ill of my Indy, for shehears yon very well.O deed, my Lord, I had nae mind o’ dat. Wellthen, said he, drink to me, or them you like best,Then, saysshe,t.herc’stoyea’de gidder, heelso’er9?lief*!. Very wcJl, iny«, my Lord, tlint’sgo(*d smise.Dinner being over, my Lord desired tbe brideto dance. Indeed, my Lord, sail! she, I cannadance ony, but I'll gar my wnme wallop fomentyours, an than we’il rin round about as fast’s wecan. Very well bride, said he, that will just do;we shall neither kiss nor shake hands, but I’llbow to thee, and ye’ll bees to me, se we’ll havedone.—80, after the dinner and dancing, myLout exhorted the bride to be a good neighbour,and ’gree with every body round about. I wotvveel, my Lord, said she, ye ken I ne’er cast outwi’ ony body but Lang Pate o’ the Pans, an hehad a’de witeo’t; he began v i’ heiteng andjeering me about Sandy, de black stanes an dec rab holes where de wain was gotten ; an thenit turned to a hubbub an a cuilashangy, an ore’er \e con’d kiss’d my a—e, my Lord, he wasnboon ither on the mussel midden. I trow Itoll’d him o’ Handy Rab, his uncle, hisain titty,it steal’d de sarks an drank de siller, an how Idsmither sal’d rnaucky mutton, an mair than a’that, sac did I e’en my Lord.3 My Lord had a friend, a captain in thearmy, who came to visit him; and having heardof the Buckers’saying and exploits, was desirousto see them. My Lord, to put them in a fright,sent his servant to order them, both men andwomen’ to come up before his gate to-morrowabout kail time; and all that did not come, wasto flit and remove out of my Lord’s ground di¬rectly. I his put the whole town in a ten ibisconsternation ! Some ran to Wise Willie, to seeif lie could tell what it meant. Willie said, thatit was before something ; and he said he was sure1S.1 -‘.leeth r-p.* fhe wojvt o't, amis whnt will. PuttWitty Eppte saki, I ken well wluit’s to coo**,h^*! gaim to make de mert o’s a’’soil^ci-', an thewives-dragoons, because they’re the best fighters:I ken there’s something to come on the town,fo r our Nancy saw Maggy’s gaist the street! itwas buried afoout four weeks since syne. A heeh,co Willfe, that’s a sign the meal is dear in theither warld, when she comes back to this aneagain : We’ll tak onr dinner afore we gae to myLord, we’ll mae be near come back again. Soaway they went, lamenting, all in a crowd, MyLord anti the Captain was looking over thewindow when they arrived ; and the Captaincries to them. To the right about. To whichthey answered, O bless you, my Lord, "ihat isdat man saying? Says my Lord, He bids youturn your laces to Maggy’s hill, and your a—esto the sea; which they did with all haste. Anwhat will we do now ? said Willie. No mnr#.said my Lord but go all home Willie. () mydow ! O my blessitig come o’er your bonny face,my Lord; I wish you may never die, n< r yetgrow sick, nornaebody fell you ; ye are the bestmStn in a’ the warld, lor we thought a’ to bedead men or sodgers, ye’re wiser than a’ thewitches on the coast of Fife, or in a’ the warld.4-. There was a custom in Bucky harbour,when they got a hearty drink; that they wentdown to daacc amorm the boats; and two orthree of the oldest went into a boat to see therest dance. And when they admitted a burgher,there was always a dance. One day they ad¬mitted gly’d Rob, who was a warlike, and madethem all to st p their tiancing; for which hewas carried Veiore Wise Willie, to answer for£4thfrt his crime; far which he was ivmhhtvl toihe Isle of May, at the mouth of the Frith ofForth, to carry coals to the Li^ht-Ilouse.The Bucky lads ami lassies, when they j?o togather bait, tell strong stories about ghosts,witches, Willie wi’ the wisp, and the Kelpy,fairies, mnukens, and bogles of all sorts. Theythink the ghosts, go ail night, like mild horses,for fear of being seen, and be made to carryscate fish, and dulce. They think Witches arethe worst kind of devils, and make use of catsto ride upon, or kill kebbers and besom-shafjs;and thut they sail over the sea irv cockle shells,and bewitches lads and Isnses, and disables bride- jgrooms. They think Willie and the Wisp is afiery Devil, p.nd leads people aft’ their road to |drown them in the sea. They think Kelpy is afiy d«vil, and roars before n loss at sea. And they ?believe thntthe Fniriesleft new-born bairns from jllu'lr tiioiln;ro, o.nt! tliat none ot them arc safeto lie vrilh their mothers.for a night or two after ■they are born, unless the mother get a pair of]mas's breeches under their head, which sets the'Fairies adrift. But if they neglect to do this,they say the Fairies will carry of the child, mxl!leave an old stock of wood with the mother.4