CURATE,INTERESTINGTO WHICH IS ADDED,Tke COUNTRY CLERGYMAN,STIRLING:print*'; :y w. macntb,Where i« always kept on S,»le a choice slid tsumtlr*Assortnvsnt of Histories, Songs, Chiidren’s StvtyBooks. School Soaks, fcc. &c.fffBVILLAGE CURATE.A TALE.* The fpxx!, fix Virtue* »ake, abhor to •la.” Ctt^cwAt sn a<je when (Ke I)whip n>in<l is most snieaf*tible of, and too oketi imbibes, a passion foruplqous pleasure ; etc yet experience the sage pre¬cepts had impressed, Lord Belfront inherited ft*ple<idid fortune. His levees were Clouded withthe most fashionable part of the world j the voiceof flattery incessantly sang h.is praise, and bertow- .ed on him every virtue that couid ennoble man.His rank in life, and extensive fortune introducedhim into the first families in England ; and *ver-tarcs of marriage were made to him by the parent*Kjd guardians of the greatest beauties of the age:but Belfunt, though not insensible to the charm*of beauty, was nut yet become the vassal of theirpower.The attention which he invariably receivedfrom the whole circle of his acquaintance, it might 'reasonably be supposed, was very acceptable to theinexperienced Belfout \ but, notwithstanding hieextrcnio yuuih, and ignorance of men and manners,he suspected the sincerity of ti’iese encomiums whichflattery bestowed on him ; and pliant voice of adft-butioB had made little impression on his mind.3At *nee to pr<»T« the integrity of hi* profe«»ifriend*, he carefully *preud a report that, hy on*imprudent step, he had keen precipitated fromprosperity’* flowery nr.mint into1 the barren vaU•f poverty. Swiit as wild fire ran the evil ‘ale {and those very doors which, as it were hy magio•pentd at the approach of the rich anil happy i»ef-f»nt, were now barred against the mined spend¬thrift.To give hi* distress an air of certainty, h^tnade*ever:v] application* for assistance to his owse vow¬ed eternal friends, which were i.iyiyiahly treatedwith a mortifying contempt. To the fai- rivals ofhis afl’eetisns he addressed his tale of sorrow 5 here,I: too, neglected was his fate.—Belfout, dispossessedof the means to gratify their fondness for dyes%amusement, and pleasure, was an ol.j-ct nojongerworthy of their regard. Reflecting on these esyeats, he exclaimed—‘ How wretched are thechildren of Fortune ! The poor maa in his honr•f distress finds a (riemj; hut the rich, wliea l»oerases to he so, is di«rfgarded by those whom hi«fermer konnty fed : aad.who have not charity p~Bough to give to his misfortunes even the costiesewt of AIn the midst of his conterapLitinns, a scrvajrts cntere'l the room, aad ennyunccd the arrival ofI.a>rd Brcnicre : who, returning from a ^qpjynrexcursion, had just b»'ard of his friend's .misfpsjtuna,and hastened to relieve his neces-ities ,A,ii lje;ap~j preached, B-.lfont, rj-ji^g Ij-wm his chair,.’r -.n tomeet Iubti. “ It is sc/te consolation,”, said he** fer the di«app«)iaHn<xts I have experifoced. ;®fcod the man whom / n.vst valotd not minoriiy4Itfee cete^m I bore, him.’ * Tim,' continued Iw,‘more than recompences the ingratitude of tboMmeccenary wi'etclies, who cannot recollet the fea¬tures of their friend when shaded by the veil ofajFected distress/The conclusion of Belfont's address forciblystruck Lord Bremere, who repeated the words* affected distress!'—Ail-ding, with much surprise,-—* Are, then, your misfortunes bred by the tattleof the town.’‘ No, my lord/ returned Belfont; 4 not fromthose contemp'ible beings, who eagerly busy them¬selves with every bodies sffairs, while they neglecttheir own, and who are only industrious in thepropagation of scandal j but from myself arose thetale of my distress. I invented it, meiely toprove the sincerity of those protestations of eter-ir-l friendship, which every day the siren, Flattery,'■whispered in my ear •, and which, to speak thetroth, were become most intolerably disgusting.Among my female friends/ continued he, ‘ a lady,on whom I looked with partial eyes, and who, infact, had made some faint impressions on my heart,had the cruelty to smile at my distress: but I thankbtr for her contempt; it has broken asunder thosechains her beauty had forged to hold my heart inbondage/‘ And what use does your lordship mean t«make of this discovery?’ inquired Bremcre.‘ My resolutions, Charles,’ returned Belfont,4 arid your ideas, I will venture to say, are of anopposite nature. You, perhaps imagine that Isfcati return to the fashionable world j refute the5•pinion it entertains of my <IIstre»*( aid reproachit for its ingratitude!'‘ What else can yoi*purpose ?' asked Bremere.4 Convinced of your lordship's integrity,’ re¬plied Belfont, ‘ L siial! not hesitate to repose inyour breast the • .'cret of mv resolves. The sud¬den death of my uncle/ continued he, 4 his nivetime an ample fortune ; the enjoyment of which, intfe- vulgar opinion of mankind, ensures the con¬stant possession of happiness. Alas! hoiv mistakenis |iic!i a notion ! It is true, rpy every wish is gra-tified hut one. You smile, Charles, and already»iy friend, the society of a virtuous female-,whose bosom is'avvake to the soft touches of hu-to persuade his f.lend from his purpose. Belfontremained inflexible to all his entrvaties, and, hav¬ing dni.*n from his friend all assurance of inviol¬able secrecy, tney parted : Bremere, to the hauntsof giddy passion ; B -llo. i, to prepare for his visitto those of rural f licity.After a short repast, Bel font, leavmg direction*with his steward for the management of the fami¬ly in his absence, retired to rest ; and, at an earlyhour, while the sons of riot and dissipation werereturning from their nocturnal revels, he left hi*anticipate that yet unaccomplished wi^h—Yes fIt was in vain that Lord Bremere endeavouredkm: >ftrend’d mansion, and in the humble £arb of *peasant, with a fen necessaries tied up in a liand-terehief, began bis retreat. From the metropolis.His name and title were only known in Grosvenor-&quart : at present he contented himself with theless dignified appellation of George Trueman; andall traces of Lord Belfont weie for a time vanished.Having continued his walk for near three hcuii,Lk found himself fa'igned; when an inn, oppor¬tunely presenting itself to vie«, afforded him anopportunity of resting his weary limbs, and satis¬fying the cravings of nature, which exercise hadrendered ir.sre than commonly acute. The ob¬sequious host soon furnished him with an excel¬lent breakfast, which having finished, be mountedthe Norwich stage, tbai had arrived during his re¬past, and, at the close o! the day, found himself iathat city.Meanwhile Bremere, mixing with the circle kfBelfont’s late acquaintance, heard with silent indig¬nation the illiberal and unjust r< flections that wetweast on the suppotird misconduct of his fi-'end.The impertinent inquiries tvith » Inch his earsurere assailed from ail who know him in the habitscf friendship with Bellbnt, wue almost too muchfor his temper to hear with composure; end howas often on the point *f violating <he promise ofsecrecy his friend had extorted from him. to vir».dicate his cha.kcter from the aspersions of slan¬der.Seated, one evening, in a box at Drury-lnn#theatre he was se,.n Py l,ady Caroline Blandish,from the opposite side of the house; who, saiueermony, immediately came round to hint. 8#,Y•f>y*»y lord,'* laid the, cnterMit; the hex, “ what i«become of your friend Belfont ? Have you seenhim lately? How does he bear, his misfortune*?I am really sorrow lor the unfortunate youth ?’‘ My friend, * replied Bremere, * is mhuitrljrobliged to your ladyship for the concern you tak*in his distress.'‘ Why, you knoijt, my lord,* returned LidyCaroline, ‘ one can t help being concerned Us; >hodistresses of those who were of one s acquxinUnte.I profess,” continued she, ‘ the news of his ruiitastonished me prodigously ; and 1 assure you, Ifelt myself extremely hurt at it; for his lordshiphad paid me much attention, and [ began to think1 had made a conquest. It i«, however, addedthe, 4 very fortunate that the affair ended as itdid, for you know, it would have been a shockingthing to have involved one's self in huchdifflcidtit*.’4 Tine, madam/ n p’ied Bremeie ; who, by liefladyships discourse, lound she was the person t*whom Bellont alluded, as having attracted hiaparticular notice; ‘but, after all, whatrrer duni-■titiou the toitune of Lord Belfoat has received,be assured, it is still sufficient to sunpnit the wo¬man whom he shall honour with his hand, in p•tile of elegance that might sooth the most rxlfri-•ive vanity ” And, without waiting hrr ladyr’lnp'*reply, bowed, and wished l\rr good night, disgust-cd with the affTected coucern she expressed for hi*friend's imaginary distress, which was hut ill cal¬culated to coaceal the spirit of inalwvo!»cee thatrankled iir Iter.hastTn. .r ,/■ uyoLady Caroline concluded, what he had said wa*«a!y to shelter be*- friend float tho censure of til*^fKmk8‘Icrld, and to entourage the opinion that his affair*were not so desperate as they had been represented.With these ideas, she joined her company ; andI3elfont and his misfortunes escaped her memory.And now, gentle reader, let us attend the steps»f Beil'ont; whom, hereafter, we shall distinguishby that of Trueman. Having spent a few daysat'Norwich, he left that city, and cotitinued hisexcursion, till he found himself, for the first time,in the midst of his tenantry.Totally unknown to his tenants :’.r!d his steward,he had an opportunity of informing himself of theoppression which the former bore, and the ab'uveswhich the latter committed. It was near sun-setwhen he arrived at a pleasant village on the borders•f the sea, which contained, what is tl .'•re called,an inn. Having deposited his bundle in the roomwhere be was to sleep, be repaired to the Kitchen ';and, seating himself among the rustic- assembledover their evening gotch of »og*, joined in tjieir'discourse.The conversation chit flly turned on the transac¬tions of the village ; and, among a variety of anec¬dotes detailed of the inhabitants, the recent mis-iortunes, of their worthy curate most attracted thenotice of Trueman. The incident dwelt stronglyob his mind; and he determined to make himselfacquainted with the narrative, pt^a man of whomhis parishioners spoke in, such lugTi'terms of appro¬bation. He invited the landlord to partake of hisbeverage ; who being a communicative sort of* The earthen jugs, out of which the people in Norfolkdrink, are called; aud their strong beenis known by»lt« name of nog.- . , , , h? ,9person, an<l sue who had a coeslde. able share efhumanity intetwoveo in his cotnposition, readilycomplied with Trueman s request, to reLte thfcmisfortunes of the worthy pastor.‘ I will tell you, sir,’ said he, ‘ the story of Par¬son Benit^y. Y'ou must kqow, sir, that he is th«curate of our parish. The living, which is thegift of my Lord Beifont, belongs to a clergyman,who lives in the west-, and, though it brings himin a good three hundred pounds a year, he guts butcurate only forty pounds out of it. Sc that, yoo«ee, the master gets two hundred and sixty poundsfor doing nothin", as one may sat, while the ser¬vant, who does every thing, is obliged to be con¬tented with scarcely a seventh part of that sum:and though the good woman, his wife, broughthim a large family, he could never get any increaseof salary. This made h*ni determine on takinga farm ; which, by the death of one of his neigh¬bours, became vacant. But I don’t know howit was, though he worked as hard as any day-la¬bourer in the parish and las wife was as industri¬ous as a bee, they couhln t, as the saying is, bringboth ends together ; and. to make short of thematter,' my load's steward seized on his stock,which not being sufficient to pay all arrears thehard-hearted rascal ciapt him into the county£ao1-’ . . ,‘ And his family/ asked Trueman, ‘ what erabecome of them !'‘ His wife and four children,’ returned thelandlord, ‘ three fine boys from ten to thirteenyears old, and a daughter grown up, are in a cot¬tage hard by, that belongs tome. The overseerf{ the parish, wh« is a cradled sort of a ffiloH,and a friend of tl.e Stewart, was for sending the*to the workhouse But, ‘No,’ says I; ‘bold*eiglibonr Bruin1 while my roof (an give the*shelter, and 1 can provide them witii a meal toeke out the earnings of their own industry—And,you must know, sir,’ paid he, with a significantSod, ‘ I am pretty warm—they shall never en¬dure the wants and hard-hips of a prison ! Forwhat,’ said I, ‘ is your workhouse bu* a dungeon jwhere the poor eat little, and labour hard * —‘ But,•ir,' continued the landlord, ‘ not only 1, but th«whole village, was against their going there j andthe inhabitants all cheerfully spare a little towardsthe family's support ; nay, even the labouring•ettagcr, cut of bis hard earnings, throws in his*uite.’‘And what,’ inquired Trueman, ‘is tie a*mount of the sum for which the unfortunate mapW pow confined ?’‘ The whole deli,* replied the landlord, ‘ Xam told, is about three hundred pound.*-*-* sui«by' much los large for the inhabitants of oiir par»ish to raise without injuiitg thernMlves; or, de¬pend upon it, he would soon ba snatciud from thegripe .of the law.'Every partitular fthicb related to this worthyMan, Trueman inquiied with an ea>nestness thatdisplayed rbr philanthropic sentiments of his mind )aii£ intimated, r.r: merely a wish, but a fixed de-tern.jnetion, to reica# the indigent suflt-r trot*Uk horrors of a prison, and restore I ini to his dit*fconsolar# faintly. fmpr< -s»d sTith this generM|ssswiiiiment he retired ta bed, meditating on thwaeass by which hs might effect his laudable dw-11rfgns, so a? to giv« the least offence possible tothe delicacy of suffering virtue, and icnrenl theband that loosed I he chains of bondage, and gaveonce more to the drooping captive the possewUe•f liberty.After proposing to himself manv plans, be atleag-h determined’to walk the next day to a posttown, about three miles off and enclose note# Utlb:* amount of Mr -fivtiley's debt, in a better tt>lhat gentleman. Tins appealed to him th» beatmethod he could devtse, us it would leave no traceathat might lead to a discovery from whom thomerited bountv Cii ae. Thus resolved, be yieldedIII to the soft embraces’of sleep; and, in the morn'Hg, rose to execute his benevolent purpo e.In his return, he s»w a female and a little boy.!) The youth caiiied a’basket, which seemed tooheavy for his feeble strength to support. The fe-.male had in each band a jug ; and; having out¬walked her companion, had sealed herself on aatile to wait his coming up. Trueman accostedthe youth and offered to assist him in carrying|li* loud ; a proposal which the youngster readilyaccepted, telling him, at the same time, that hohad been to a neighbouring farmer for cheese and1 hatter ; and that his sister had got two jugs ofjnilk for his brothers’ breakfast —‘ Ami what isyour name ? Said Trueman.—‘ Benley, sir ; andwe livo in vender cottage,’ pointing to a smallhouse.4 Charlotte,’ said the youth, ‘ here is a ge»-s lieman has kindly carried my basket for me ; andai yon complain the jogs are too heavy for yoi^1 dare suv he will ht Ip yon to.).'4 Tuat I will, and esteem myself obliged so (9*4«, said Trueman, placing the basket en thegroom), and bowing to Miss Benley. ‘ You arevery kind, sir,' said Charlotte; ‘ hut I am asham¬ed that Henry should have given you so muchrrouble ; lit is an idle boy, or he would not hav*thus intruded on your politeness.’‘ Cull it not intrusion ; the young gentlemanasked not my assistance, and my service is volun-taiy.’The blushing Charlotte accepted the assistance*> the gallant stranger. Trueman viewed, witha joy bordering on rapture, the personal accom¬plishments et his fair companion. ‘ And, oh I*e.vid he, ‘ should she wear a pure mind, and unstain¬ed as is her lovely form, she were a treasure worththe p-oudest monarch’s love !’Tiie lovely maid answered with indifference e-ve^y question of the enamoured youth. Thejloomy prospect of futurity had robbed Miss Beu-ie.y oi that vivacity, which, in her happier day*,*be was wont to possess.Ilany Benlty having informed his mother ofthe stranger's civility, the good woman walked tvthe wieket-gate, that formed an entrance to thegarden, to welcome her daughters return« and,thanking Trueman tor his politcbess, invited hita!a partake of their morning’s refreshment.* I am sorry,f said the venerable matron, ‘ thatKJ n.i ans; anu my inclination to make you wri-•eune, are not in unison with each oilier, but timtvyliich I have to give, I,give fm !y—There wava lime'—‘ I have heard of your misfortunes, madam,’ihienupted Tfucmaii 5 aud 1 sincere !y syoipath.av13in your »uffi;rings. But tlo not yield to despahuTbs band which inflicts distress can also bestowhappiness ; and, though the pitiless storm of•Hern adversity to day beats hard and heavy u»your defenceless roof, to-monow prosperity's cheer¬ful sun may raise your sinking hopes, and repairthe ravages of the ruthless hlast.’Mrs Benley and her daughter could not avoidmaking their observations on the strangeness e?the visit : while he congratulated himself on th#fsmpletion of his wish tor an introduction to thisR amiable fami'y. •It was on a market day that Farmer Weifordir waited on the good old man. He found him in ali small room, pursuing his pious meditations. Th*| *ight of any of his parishioners, vva-, a cordial t*It the droopinir spirits of Mr Benley His griefa,|| tiiough not forgotten, were suppressed while ces>tn versing with his friends : but, at the moment ofstperation, they returned with increased poignancy,■i and it required tlie utmost effort of mind to sup*III port the painful—‘ Adieu 1‘* E erna! God exclaimed the weeping father,ir? 'must l no more enjoy'the sweets of liberty?H How changed the see. e ! Here, when r.'ght hersable mantle o'er the face oi heaven begins i»spread, nothing is heard but the dismal rattling ofchains j doors of massy iron, grating on their hin¬ges, appal the timid soul *, while horrid oaths, anildreadful imprecations wound the listening car.O Welford 1 my soul sickms at the scene; andphilosophy scarce can shield my mind from th*horrors of despair tAt thii moment the gaoler entered the roo*ifMi a letter for Mr Benler—The Jienil i« tfl*-knwn to itip, tuid he. ‘ It ha« a goodly o«4»•ide,'' *aid the pooler ; 4 pray Heayen it prove* sotIke the world, fair witnout, »i;d foul withm.’4 ^ hy, truly, friend, returned Mr Benley,4 your satire upon the niaunerif of ntankind is nottMreasonahle, It is, I fear, the maxim at manythe present ape, to conceal the depravity ol th*heart beneath the specious appearance of honestjs,¥ins, however,’ r mtinued he, breaking the *«*!** i think, bodes no barm ; I Trill therefore ia»farm myself of its contents.*4 It is well,* said he : 4 goodncJS i* still extent j »«ad innocence enjoys the guardian care of Pro»i»deuce. The foments of this letter will bestplain my meaning*—4 To flie Reverend John Benley, at the CattleNor'jtxh.4 Revshvkd Sir,—The enclosed notes, which j4 I find, on inquiry, will cover the whole of y*uf 14 debts, wait acceptance. They are the piftofon*4 on whom !■'triune has "bestowed more than h*4 caa claim on the score «f desert ; and who anxi>* otisly hopes, while it restores to you those mosl4 •ftviable blessings, liberty, and domestic happt-4 less, he ha* left no clue by which a discovery »f |4 the dooor may be affected.•Here the gaoler broke into a swearing fit of joy }the farmer could only express his pleasure with hi*looks, while the grateful pastor threw himself o»Vis knees, and poured foith the grateful transport*•f his soul to the Giver of all Goodness.15While the hei'nty «f the pen^rRtM Trueoia*W»s thuM «*Hi|>lo\rd in rehu^ing the worthy Curat#from the liorrors ot a piixon, he himselt wa« ■#le**; a^«i<1i OU' in soothing, by e\trv art of benevo¬lence and hospitality, the anxiety of the family «ihome.With the a-sMancr of his landlord, he wax b*-oome xcqnainti d with every trarmaction that had- occurred in the vilU^r. In one ol his eveningWalks, he was roused fioni Ids meditation* by tbssudden ex< lamatii ns of a It male voice ; and, raid¬ing his eyes, Inhrld the fair ofj ct ol his aflectiaatendeavom ing to avoid the opportunities ot a ge»-tieman wi.o was pursuing her.4 3iay, lovely Charlotte !* said the strangff.*Wby da you tiy me tlm-. ?’4 Why, sir are you so importunate ?’4 Because 1 wi-h to remove the cloud of sorrotfthat hangs <,n your lirow. In short, because Ilove you. Who could to hold 1: auty sm h as jour’^and live a ^Irai'gt'r to affection! <4 AHection ! view your recent conduct to rayfather ; then say it affection h:/re a leading featurathere ?’4 On honourable terms I sought your hand,which you in scorn lefused. Ilad your father thtalaid on you Ins commamls, and forced you to banrne, he had < scaped my resentment.*4 My (hiiice »as fire, sir; and, perhaps it wasOiy nature’-, lault. I eould not love you. But »»-•use my abruptness, should we be seen thus dis*coursing, ibe di.-covi ly yvouid not add to mr ra-jiutation.’4 This contempt, child, is very pretty • but }t(hail not divert me from tasting the ripe beantio*ef those matchless charms.* Tfien rudely snatcb-his passion. At that instant, ragt and indignationired the soul of Trueman ; who, darting throughtbs hedge, seized the rude ravisher hy the throat,and hurled him to the ground. ‘ Detested mon- iateward of the abused Belfont. Already has thyfame reached thy master's ears : rior think, vileingrate that he will sufler thy vitlanies to escapewith impunity.* Then taking the almost faint¬ing Charlotte hy the hand, he hastened from thisfallen Lucifer.from the presence of her base assailant, before she«unk. lifeless into the arms of her deliverer; who,erged by fear, placed her on a bank, and ran ferWater to a neighbouring rivulet, and besprinkleddisordered looks, seem to doubt your safety ?*. * O no I wbtie Trueman is, suspicion has n«dwelling.* 1* Enchanting sweetness ! Oh ! my lovely Char*lotte, never till thi» hour of danger did I knowlag smile—*‘Alasj‘1 interrupted Charlotte, ‘I have n*•railttt to giv«. On any other subject, I will hearing the struggling beauty to Ms loathed embrace,impressed on her lovely lips the guilty purpose *fster ! I knew thee well I Thou art the faithless•lesed her-lovely eyes, and recovered.her features vvitli the cooling drops Soon she un-•Iceed her- lovely eyes, and recovered.* You tremble still, my Charlotte and, by yourhow dear an interest in my heart you held. Would*ny sweet girl but kindly listen to n.y artless tale,—would s ie but give my ardent passion one approv-17you •, t ut, till affain my father breathes the air offreedom till from the chains of bondage he is freed,I have foresworn all joy.‘‘ Till that blest period,* said Trueman, * whenfortune shall cease to prosecute thy venerable sire,and give the captive to his weeping friends, mypassion in concealment's painful bosom shall dwellimmured, if then thcu wilt give my artless tal*attention 1 This only do I ask : grant me but this;and hspe shall nurture my love, and lull to resteach intrusive care.** Then, by my hopes of bliss hereafter,* saidthe maid, * I vow, when that happy hour arrives,I will not chid?, thy fondness. But tell me, whatmeans this sudden joy that through the villagnreigns ? How sweetly sound the merry be'.* ; whileevery breeze from you shouting throhg Wafts thethe breath of pleasure.** And see,* said Truerpan, * where,'to mv Char¬lotte's cottage they bend their steps! I t is me-thinks, no vulgar cause that swells this loud ex¬claim !—But see ! your brother comes, the har¬binger of happiness !*‘Oh, Charlotte!* said Harry, * our dear fatheris come home again. Farmer Welfprd broughtthe news that he. was on t,he road, and the w'.;o1btillage went to meet him. They took the horsesfrom the chaise, and dragged him to our cottage.My mother cries for joj., and sent me to seek f.fi.eryou. Make haste, my father lon^s to see you —And do you, Mr Trueman ceme too ; my motherhas told him what a kind friend you have been 5I will run back, and say yeu are coming.’* Now, my Charlotte,’ said Trueatan, * indulge13Ikii flood af joy, nor check the soft emotions oft he soul. These tears become thee ; which, likethe fleeting shower that bathes the summers d»ygire fresl. lustre to the charms of nature.’‘ Is that which I have heard derived from truth}•c is it but the dream of fancy ? My father relea-•4 from prison ' By whom ?‘ Why ?' said Trueman, ‘ should you questionwl icnce the gracious bounty came f It is sufficientthat be is returned. Think the measure of hisbliss is mcosiplrte", till in bis paternal embrace hofolds thy lovely form. Hasten, then, to increasetud share his merited happiness ' Then, foldingher arms in his. he hnrried towards her dwelling.Mr Brnley was seated at the door of the cot¬tage, surrounded by many of his parishioners, whenCharlotte rushed into her father’s arms, exclaim¬ing—* Mv dear, dear father ' The enrapturedparent mingled the tears nt fond affection withtliofe of filial gratitude J and ,every countenancebeamed with smiles of joy. Nor was the welcome• f the worthy Trueman wanting in cordialiiy ; but,when the lovely Charlotte ivlati d her rescue »the bated Sandloid, the niurmur of applause fellfrom every tongue, while the grateful father straitr->d the gallant stranger to his heart by the endear¬ing name of son.The return of the worthy pastor was celebratedbv the inhabitants of the parish as a sort ol j tbilee.iJverv one strove to excel his neighbour in acts ofeourtety. S ores of viands were conveyed fromall parts of the village ; and while, by the pale fight•f the moon, sprightly youth led up t'w" merry4*nce, cheerful age sat and quaffed the nut-brownale, talked over the feats of former days, and inthought grew young again.Every transaction that had occurred since LordBelfont's arrival in the village, he had transmittedto h is friend Brennre; and on confirmation ofthe oppression which his steward had exercised,•nclosed the discharge of that unfeeling wretch ;with an order to deliver hie accounts to Mr Ben-ley whom he acquainted • is successor. A letter,announcing to tins gentleman his appoint>*»ent,|l also accotnpanied the packet. which Bi emeie duly1j| forwarded from Londen, in the manner his friendin had directed. By this time Bremere had refutedIS the opinion which had beet) entertain, d of the de¬rangement of his lordships finances The wholeWas declared to be a feintThe sensations of Sandford, on reading bis lord-imps letter, were such as arre familiar only to thaguilty. T he peiturbation of his mind brought oil» violent (ever which soon terminated his miser¬able existence.Far <1.(lerent were the feelings of Mr Bmley.-—* 11 ow variegated is the life of man! Mis mori•f in# hey rises immersed in clouds, and the lower-iag tempest carl ies ruin in its aspect. Anon, tfaefriendly breeee of fortune di-perscs the' ihreaten-lug storm : prospenu's goiden sun slteils forth iwi•cheeiing rays, enervites the chill blasts of his blackadversity,anddecfstbeevening of his days in smil»i®f joy. And oft the ministers of fate rever**the pleasing srene ! said Truman. ‘ You ar •Come very opportunely to share the pleasm-ewhich our newly-acquired fortune gives,* r»-i turned the cuiate. And, after having informed20Sr"i)ii; ' MTrnenian of th? eontenfs of the letter, toMhim he had discovered the bounteous hand thatgave him liberty.‘ I have compared this letter of my Lord Bal-font with the one I received when under confine¬ment, and I find the characters of each exactlycorresponding. To his lordship I attribute thebenevolent act* To-morrow we purpose leavingthis humble dwelling, and once more taking pos¬session of our former mansion ; where, l hope, w*ihall enjoy the pleasure of your company.’‘ You do me infinite honour, sir ; and I willstudy to deserve your favour. But where is MissBenley, sir ? I came purposely to inquire how shefinds herself, after her l->sr nighf’s merriment.’‘ I believe you will find her in the garden.She and her mother will keep you company foran hour or two, while I visit my friends in the vil-lage ’Trueman walked to the bottom of the garden,and found his lovely Charlotte seated on a bower•f osiers, which she herself had reared. She hada letter in her hand, which, as she perused, thetears of anguish fell from her sorrowing eyes.Trueman's approach roused the maid j she startedfrom her seat, hurrid the letter into her pocket,and darted an angry look at the youth.‘Why, my lovely Charlotte! do you thusangrily fix on rue those streaming eyes?‘Answer me faithfully,’ said site: ‘ art thoawhat thou seemes! ? or, beneath that mean attire,but ill according with thy polished phrase and man--Ha ! my tears are true!Ker, dost thou not hide-Th« blush of guilt has crimsoned o’er thy fac#«•nd that ccnfuicd air, that sadden start, preclainthee false!’* Tell me,’ said Trueman, receTering himself,* the grounds on which you Have raised this unkindsuspicion of my hnnour/‘ This will inform you, sir ; a friend of MissBenley advises her to be on her guard. Truema*is not what be seems; but, beneath the appearaue#•f rustic honesty, harbours designs destructive nfher peace aud honour.‘ Now, sir. what can you plead to this charge ?’‘ Miss Benley, that I love you, I think, is still' keyond dispute. That you approved my passion,nay, owned a mutual iiame, is equally on the sid«of truth. To the charge here preferred againstme, that I sm not wi.at I seem, I plead guilty-jhut to the rest, with all my soul, 1 pronounce itf, base falsehood ’‘ Less warmth, sir, will better serve the c»wieof truth.’* Less warmth, madam, would confirm me theguilty wretcV your hard thought*, and this vilescroll, have ii7tde me. But, tell me, if I can repel,by truth indubitable, this unjust arraignment oLmy honour, what reward I may expect?’‘ Oh! clear but thyself of these gross suspj.cions*, appear but the man my fond wishes haveformed thee, and I would reject the crowned mo¬narch's hand to share thy honest love 1’‘ Then fear not, and know that I am the hep-py Be'.font/‘Lord Bel fontYes, the rich, the happyBeltont, lives the vassal of your power. But tellme, from what envious hand didst thou reem®this vile dtfwner of my truth ?’V2?* Jsnring on tlie i»rcen, m lefctar fcll'froni your pock',t. I look it up unotaerrtd,aad prru^d its contents : Croat which I learned tintyou were in disguise. *“ And the rest your fears supplied “ Eve*“ Then, truly, you had reason for suspicion.— jBut come, let us disclose our mutual par.sion t« iyour parent^. Their approbation gained, we tbemjwill name the happy dsy.”“ May I entreat a miment's conversation, sir?” I44 Aye, toy good sir, an hour's, replied Mr Bep-r‘•y* ... !“ Tints it is, sir. Yo«r daughter lias beauty,worth, and innocence. 1 sought, f gained her fundregard •, and it is now our mutual wish to eaef•hange our holy vows, and sign a contract of eter¬nal love.'M How sar ydu, Charlotte? Tn this, does MCTrueman speak the wishes of your heart ?"“ He has tpy free consent, sir, to what be »ow|proposes." I“ The request is somewhat sudden. It iatrn*, if have found you worthy, and your merit deservesthe treasure which it seeks : but a. teqder regardfor the happiness of my child forbids me Co give a jt»« precipate answer ; and sor^e little inquiry i*■eces-ary t?—" j .'’?“ True it is a matter tSat requires the most, i>serious Consideration ; ■rj‘,1 the reluctance whichyeu feel gives additional lustre to your character, r4 it accident has revealed me to the fair object ef Laiy wtsbe*. I thn-w a-ide disguise, aad couftssgdtl [myseif the happy Bulfoat. ’ i)* Then tales her, and may she prove deaerriag(1 tf your lore.’The lovely maid smiled consent ; and Mr B*a*hastened to the village, where the joyful tid-inga soon spread. Tlie tenants He tv w ith cheerhilit haste to pay their duty to their illustriovs lanshi lard, and none refused the invitation ot his lerdshlf.The Country Clergyman.s Wbar yonder copse, wheie once the garden smil'd,itliind, still, where many a garden flower grow* wild,i lilt ere, where a fe,w to » shrubs the place disclose,nThe village preacher’s modest mansion rest.I A man he was to all the country'dear,tfLnd passing rich—with forty pounds a-year,.cmnte from towns, he ran his godly race .or e’er had changed, nor wish’d to change his plac*.npractis’d he, to lawn or seek lor power,y doctrines fashion'd to the varying hour :ar other aiais h-is heart had learn d to prize,ore skill’d to raise the wretched than to ris«.His liouse was known to all the vagrant trainie chid their wand rings, but reliev’d their pale,I'he long-tiremtmber’d beggar was liis guest,hose beard descending swept his aged breast:‘he ruin'd spendthrift now no longer proud,lain) d kindred there, and had his c.laiiris allow’d’he broken soldisr, kindly hid to stay,at by his fire, and talk'd the night away ;q1 fept o'er his wounds, or tales of sorrow dona,soulder’d hiacrutcli, and shew dhowfwldswrrn vrwi.fteftk’d with his goests, the good man karn’d to glow, ■And quite forgot their vices in their wo:Careless their merits or their faults to scan.His pity gave, ere charity began.Thus to relieve the wretched, was his prid«( §And ev’n his failings leaned to virtue s side :But, in his duty, prompt at ev’ry call,He watch’d and wept, he pray’d and felt for*11, 1And, as a bird each fond endearment tries,To tempt its rew-fledg’d offspring to the skirS, IHe tried each art, reprov’d each dull d-day, WAllur’d to brighter worlds, and led the way.Beside the bed, where parting life was laid.And sorrow, guilt, and pain, by turns dismay d, ®jThe reverend champion stood. At his control, -XJDespair and anguish fled the struggling soul: . ■IComfort came down the trembling wretch to raised|And his last fa't’ring accents whispered praise. 21At church, with meek and unaffected grace, ®His loaks adorn’d the venerable place :Truth from his lips prevail'd with double sway,And fools, wno came to scoff, remain’d to pray.JflThe service past, around the pious man,With ready zeal, each honest rustic ran ; MEv’n children follow'd with endearing wile, ®And pluck’d his gown, to share the good man‘s smik.His ready smile a parent's warmth express'd ;Their welfare pleas'd him, am! their cares distresaM,!To them his heart, Lis lova, his griefs, were giv'w;But ail his serious thoughts had rest in faeav'nAs seme tall cliff, that lifts its awful form,SwelN from the vale, and mid-way leaves the stortfcjThough round its breast the roiling clouds are epre»<Eternal suasbine settles on its head.FINIS.