PURGATORYProved, Illustrated, and setforth in a Clear Light.FUNERAL SERMON,BY FATHEaMURTAUGH O’L WERY. *■Prieft of the Pari Hies ofI St. John's, Droniorc, and Machrdih^lUpon the death of one of his Paruhcners*I Vivitpost Funera Virtus. Anno 1747.fi r Wfiwi A^g —1 rr.^artygr-iSTIRLING:'Printed for the Bookfellers,V OF SCOTLANDPURGATORYProved, illustrated, and setforth in a Clear Light.My Friends,pCTDlJ all know, it i£i a cufhtom-JL ary ting vid de Clergy, fen deyare going to preach a Shanno n, datkey vill be tak a text frotnibutn par-dcular plafli of de Scripture; butdor dat very rafhon, becaufe he ilhu:uthtomary, I vill not do it. Forj love to be Shingular; And you/4know Shinp/ularity in the right, iflinever a crime yet.And afh acre are a great many ofyou gather here upon dilh occafion,ihum vid an hone ft intention, nodoubt, to be inftrncied, dan layyour (helves open to de conviflion ofdc truth, {hum, perhaps, to makeiheft of our Holy Decree, and laughattic fooleries of de Mafs, as dey villprofanely fpeak ; In Ihort, as dereare a great mariy of you gather here,vfhuai Phipfyterian, fhum Shurch ofEnglifhman, and ihuui Roman Ca¬tholic, I fhall preach you a lharmon.in EngHfh, dac you viU all equallyunderftand fat I vas ihay.And de Shubje(ft',*I chufe to Infiftupon as dc molt proper for difh oc-|cafton, i(h Purgatory. (de molt ad-4vantagecus and beneficial do&rine of|.our Shurch) de metaod I fhall ob-J;ferve iih dilh:it- *uC' sIFirft, I fiiall prove to yon. Bat; dere iih really fudi a plalh \ Pur^a>'.J torv, or a Limbus Patrum, wherei do fliouls of all our frienJs, departi eiih life, do go, and are purge fromi deir remaining dims and pollutions.4 . h '-,‘1Shecozidly, I vill dcfcrihe dilli Par-gatory to you.Turdly, I vill iliow you de Pen-ij nance and Purgation of that Purga-l tory.pj® - n / -i . -And Laftly, Apply de dodrine toi]i| dilli prefent occalion.I For proofs of de fird: ting den':IDat dere illi really fuch. a plafh afliiiPurgatory, or a Limbus Patrutni where de fhouls of all our friends: depart diih life, do go and are purgei i;y from deir remaining ihin and pollu-i:tion : I need fnay no more, to you5 who are Catholics, den difb, dat it6ifh a do&rine upheld by our unerr¬ing counfliels, confirmed by de Popeiumfhelf, and flamped vid de ableauthority of de Shurch: Fat needyou, who believe in that Shurch al- jready, any more proof for a dodlrine,den dat fhe ifh your Oracle, and yourinfallible guide. She ifii in de plafliof your reafon, ienfes and under- jftanding, and has power to fhudgeand decree, and determine, and dic¬tate, and ordain, in all matters ofreligion and c!o<f*.rine, and ali dattend to ycur bodies and eflates, andall dat do relate to diih vcrld, or denext Vv rid to come; fat ever dere-. fore fhe bid you ihay, you mull fliay,fat ever fhe bid you do, you muft do |without ever pretending to tink or jIhudge for yourflielves as de Here- fticks fhay, dat vid be blafpheming jrgainft her mold holy autoricy : Nay,it vid be - mold horrid impudence jand damnable herefy. |Bat far de benefit and convifttonIjof od*r denominations, who pr renito r3e vi’ d?ir own eyes, afh de (hay¬ing iiii, and thro* de great abundanceof deir ignorance, vid fhud^e for *demfelves, in defe deep matter, l villiifhow de proof upon which our holyShurch has rounded di(h do<5ln0eiAnd firft, we are told in de fcripture,ifhum fere nor nodet, Dat all ting?;ilhall be prove by fire, fat f>rt dey'tare; dat if any mans bull l ’pbnfoundation., fuch as hay, nor draw,iSnor ftubble, nor any fuch combuft-;ible materials, he vill fuffer daniageinor lefs, and de fuperffruflure (hallibc burn down, yet he himihelf fh-tll(be ihaved, but flV) as by fi-e, datlifli, my friends, de Pufgatorial firelot de turd plalh. ' •Again, Our Shaviour did raife upvan Lazarus frjm de dead, after hejhad been five nor tree day in deignye till he was (Unking again;■x.48Nf-w ph^re vJris oat man*1! altdar v.-hile ? Ah, ah, in hell he couldr' t he, for out of hell dere illi/ o re¬demption : In heaven he could notbe, for de fhoys and pleasures of dathappy pi a ^ are fo j::r ,at, he nevervid come-back to dilh vicked vorldof our again, anfl go into a flinkingcarpalji dat vas mod rotten in agrave ; Ergo, it vafu ia Purgatory,oFi.de turd plafn. .hut aga«i; Between our Shaviour’scrnciaxion and alcenfion, it villiforty day, a great win e my friends,near fix veeek: Now where valh he■M\ dat vdiile ? In heaven lie valli notafibended ; in hell he could not be,for out of hell d«re ilh no reden.ption,as !’il hi ay before. Where *den valhhe; Let any Hcretick of you all an-fwer dat now : By de flioul of de ho¬ly piieft, der valh no oder plash forInin ro be. but our own turd plafh,dat ifh Purgatory.9Bat led I (k raid tire ysur p itlsrice,fl vill caaclude difh heal vid 013; praof more* phich U de only article.iij dat iupports dilli doctriae*vAnd firft. We are totcl ia de holyOofuel of St Sheaefis, ihuin pherenor noder, Dat we are all corruptedand contaminated td de'pollutionsof Ihin, dac no man liveth and flain-; nethnot, datdere are none righteous,1 no not van. Again, we are told inde holy Prophecies of de Evaagdiits,I fhum where nor noder, Dat no un¬clean ting (had enter into dc Kmg-II dom of Heaven : Where denIhall dey go ? All nve hope vilinot go to httll piping hot: for dere . ,,,are a great many mens* and true':U Homan Cataoiicks, but day are not•l io good as.co be he for dat holy plalh"i wherein mcereth nothing dat i;li un¬clean, neither any ting that dehieth,L It remains den, dey mu.ft go to Pur-| gatory, where tiey fhail be cUanfh:r10and purg’d from their remainingpollutions and contaminations of deirIhins till dey be made fit. for ce king¬dom of heaven . And new let dei repteftants shay fat dey pc a ft*, It^il you, by" dc shoul of de holyPrieif, dere is no poffibility of evergetting to heaven, till dey firfl godtre and undergo deir penntflice. itis plain den, de flicuis ' of ail curfriends depart ciiflt life, as well asdifli perfbi! now deceas, vent to pur¬gatory as de turd plalh.But fiflier you ever hear fat shorta plash dish purgatory ish, and fatycur friends vash iufh’ring derc—Icannot tell—"Sen never did frem me,ash I remtmbcr, and by de confci-ence 1 know nobody elfe vash able toteach you dat dodtrine buc myfelf, Ishall therefc re take dish opportunityof explaining her a little to you.And in de firfl plash, It is a very11large plash you may be fare, fet itreceives for purgation all true Catho-licks, who are de moft numerouspeople ’pon face of de earth : For bo¬lide all, France nor Spain, nor Italy,nor Rome are Catholicksj dere are agreat many more, who are dilptrledthrough de kingdoms of de vorld, dePrateftants themshelves, phen deycount heads vid ush, find, to deregreat shorrow, dat we are more thantwo turds of de inhabitants of Ire¬land, who arc profelt CathoV; he-fide a great many' more, who, forgettintg de revenue, and de oder ad¬vantageous p'cfts, have call de n-shelves Pfopteflants (and be de shoulof my dear geffep, dere a vervgreat numbers of-dem too) but aretrue Roman Catho’s in deir harts,who will get indulgence from dePope, have pried, and de ad min ill ra¬tion of holy oil at deir dead, and villget de benefit of Purgatory, and debenefit of de clergy, fo veil as'any of12you sll5 and dish make one half oft’oder turd, fo that you slice*den; are but a very fe.v who areour hearty enemies, mod; of whichare* damn'd black phiggish Phipfy-tcnans, oh, oh, the devd run awayvid dorri aii.But here, by de by, von may ob^fervc phat a parcel of poor ipirited,oowareiiy*hearted fons nor .whores ofbitches are we, to be fo long keepdown by a pared of damn’d here-ticks ; if we would but take courage,and begin, dey yill be nothing in ourhands : but if we lubmit vid a {lavishfuhshccticn to deir heretick govern¬ment, are hinder to carry arms, mademere foies to deir brogue.1—but bymy own shoul we vill have our dayabout vid dem yet?—-Gur plots villat laft lucceeci; de king of Spain,and de king of France, &c. vashpicking cpaarrels * vid dem, vid deir! depredations, and deir Guarda Goila’sj| and fat not: aue, aue, aue, by myi shoul dey vili fall on at laft, and takei courage, and fringe dem bravely :dey are making great preparation ar¬ming fleets and ships, and puttingrut land forces, dey are very power-i ful armies, de whole vorld, ah, and by(h. holy Shaint Bridget, Europe it-; shelf is no able to vidtiand dem.t Dey vill tell you of your man’s of /'fj war, and deir haddocks and deir/ vernons, and de devil know fat, vill:i fink, and flop and deftroy our ships,leave dem ’pern de bottom of do Teas,s and lever let dem put dere leg ’pont Irish ground more; dat de ki.ig of0 Spain feared for dish, and vill pay dej convention and not fight: By myHi thoul he vill fight and beat too,— dsjh1 cie caufe of de holy Shurch neh de-rfending, and de gates of Ted viil ne¬ver prevail againlt him- Dereviii oe: shiftance enough 1 11 varpmt yu, ai> de Scotch, and, by my shoui, der4Virgin Mary hershelf vill fight for us; ;den we vill fucceed to be fure, pof-fefs our rights and eftaces again, andefiablish our holy religion thro’ all |Ireland, and I myshelf may be Lord ]of Lrumnev, and of Lavry’s Bog,before i vash die yet.But after fb long a digreffion, Iihuft return to my explanation cfPurgatory. .In de shecond plash for its situa¬tion ; it i.‘h shuL, my friends, inthe middle between heaven arid belt:irom he*I on one'ficie by a fnr all paperv?.ll only, but from heaven ’pent’cder by a flreng vail of adanftant,vid gfetes of hr-;fi, of which Peterkeep lie- key, “ho vash himehelfatrue Catholic, for i e vash once Pope,and all our popes ever iirce are hisfucceilors, anti ali defeended fromhim by a right line cf tcckfrafiickgenealogy. You vill under Band de:i ting better, when I vill illu (Irate herto you by the following fimilitude,( You all know Mr. Harrifon’s hou(eij ’pon de Miravel, phen you vill; go in, dere ilh de pari >ur ’pon onehand, dere is de kitchen ’'pon t’oder,■ dere ish de hall in tie middle ; veili den, de parlour ish Heaven, de kk-Ichenish Hell, ar>d de. haU ishPorga-tcry in de middle ; ‘ hen any vonlike my shelf who ish 10 de habit of: a si entlcman, c at ish, who is a Ko-I man .Catholic goes in, he vill bei shown to tie parlour, but before heI ilh it.titled to enter, he mud wipe,| and rub, and clean his toot ’pon ai mat. which lie dere tor.cat punpofe> datidi, he mull do de penuanoc andI purgation efdat turd plaih, 0.1 ilh,he i) uft have mooey ’pon his pockettoo, to pay his reckoning, or ne viilnot be admitted into de parlour;Dish ish, he mud pay de clergy forI praying him cut of Purgatory, or,by my thoul, Peter vill not let himcuter into de kingdom of Heaven:yen knew vel 1 enough, if a man hasmoney ’pon his pocker, fpends la-viflily, nur pays well, Mr. Harrifon, lfnor ary oder inn-keeper vill be verycivil ’pon him, take him into hisparlour, fhow him a great deal ofccurtt fy and good manners, and vill-vait upon him vid every ting he’llvant; but, if he’s poor, nor vill notpay, he vill fhut the doer ’pon him,nor kick him out.—Itifh {hull fo myfriends vid Peter, if you pay de clergyveil, and • fupport de Shurch, Petervill ccme vid. his cap in his hand,open dc gate and welcome yon dtre,but if you are poor, nor won’t pay,by de holy Crofs ! he vill ihut dedoor’pen you, nor kick you out.But again. If any one come intode hall vid dirty or ragged apparel,as de Phipiytemns and all oderHereticks da, dey viil oc immediate¬ly tros dowu i ro.dje kitchen, dat iihHeii, my friends ; no quefUon viil*7jbe afk, no excufe vi'i be 1 bnt a-i way dey vill be hurry, virl^ur reple-i ven, nor benefit of 'ie cldr^v.I .cAnd difli brings me, in ’e turd■ plafli, to r.onftder de penne ice andpurgation dat de fli'mis of to*- dtpar-| ted friends do fllrdFer ere, and un-dergo in didi tu; •’ pi •ill;’I V ' ’!De flievereft of one of which pun-i: iflnnents ifh, de (link of hePetirksI thronging through to hell: do viam-i nable flench of de phiggbh Ph’i'pfy-terians, which make me curl mynofe* to link’pon it: but dc bed of itiih, dey aie not fuffer to tarrv long,■ or be flow in deir paifage thro* Pur-! gatory, left they fhould contaminatede coniecrated piafli vid de emauadanof deir herefv.J• ' tDe fhecond punifhment is «cca- ^floned by its being fituace 5pop devery ^dge of hdl: for de pialh is alli8laid vid great flags of iron, and plites-o> braf« which are flro^irlv heated.t> de force of de great fires, at phichcle hereticks are roaftiag one anotherpon fpits, dac ’tis great tornaent tovalk ’pon dem. You know phen youvill throw o9f your brogues by de fire-fliide at night, and fet your bare footspon d? flone in de hanh—H vill bevery fhorc.—ah, vod’ent he?—Bymv fhouf yon is five hundred timesas fore as dat. Or, if you wou’dmake a trulv experiment of de ting,take a girdle and put her ’pon de firetill fhe be mod red hot, den fet herdown and clap your bare arfe ’ponher, dat vill be a nearer refemblanceof her dill ; but vill not come up toher yet. I know it ifh a cufhtomaryting vid us Catho’s to provide againdour dear departed friends fufferingdish torment, by putting a pair ofnew brogues ’pon deir cash in decoffin : which I do confesh may doshum fervice, dat bh, if dey take*9*1 tare to pay de prieft veil; For he maypray dem out before de brogue be «bum but if not, de devil a fnallpotatoe he vill fignify! For you kuow,iif he fiay long in, de iole of debrogue vill foon be burn, and den:,iifat better vill' he be ? It ir.h better togiye de price of de brogue itshelf to'de prieft, and he' vill pray deni out! sho much fooner den de brogue, vill:1a It,But de turd and greateft punish-"p ment of it ish a great big black ugly! devil of a vomans, dat (lands derei< vid an iron flail, and she‘s be nash-|i iug dem thro’ all de plash in a mod,s terrible manner ; And fat ever part!> of de body vas guilty of de shin, she1 vill be trashing ’pon dat very part.-—1 If he vash drunkennefs nor gluttony,she vill be trashing ’pon de belly.It he vash reeving, she vill break allI her nuc.klc again, and if he vash a-dultery nor furnication; ah, ah,20all! you rosy guefs ycurshelves wlio v<>\v )• will get his payment foundly.Ir e'v'Tt, she vill be trashing and Itra oirig; till de devil a bit ef flesh cvi 1! si e leave ’pone ycur bone, anddey vill be roaring and shouting, andcurling deir friends, dat vill give no¬ting to de clergy to pray dem out ofdat torment. .KNow my friends, you all knowTell enough^ de pried hash a dispen-shing power over defe torments, fenhe pleafevS, dat isb, if he’s paid forhim;* but by my shoul not elfefor to grant absholutioii vidout pay¬ment, wou'd be quite Overturn deehurch : ’Tis de main pillar dat shup-pcrts her, nay, ’tish de very founda¬tion ’pon v;h;ch she is build. 0I tink now, my friends, I haveprove to you dat dere isb really fucha plash as Purgatory; and dat tieshouls of all our triends depart dbh21ijlife, are dere, fo veil as dish perfonmow deceae.In de shecond plash, I have des¬cribed purgatory to you, and turdlyI have shewn phat terrible tings yourfriends are fuffering dere, and dat Imnyshelf, as being a prieft in dish! parish, have a power of releafing any¬one from dele torments—if I am. paidi'j for him. , •Who dm among you vill give aj:i groat to have dish man’s shoul out ofi Purgatory, Come you man’s dere.-—i1 VeH—dere ish one groat—make hade,| you are very flow.Veil dere is 1,2, 3, 4 .5, 6, 7, 8, 9*J I© ten groat Vill no bodies moreij give ? ^Vash dish m m’s shoul1 worth no more den ten groat l Aue,; aue, aue, a poor ftory indeed ! Pkatj Phelen y, viil you give noting, nor[you iurlogh, arra you devils, areI*22you not all his revelations ?—Gomeyou vomans dere, give money, noryarn, nor butter, nor flax, nor fome-thing. Come, Varrid Shaue, Annaand Shuga jand all of you. Fat dedevil are you doing ? Fat, no moregroats—Vel, pho vill give tree pence ?Very veil; Vid no body more givetree pence ? flho vill give two pence ?Fat vill no body more give twopence ? Pho vill give one penny it-shclf ? Not one penny more to be gotamong you ? Ah, ah, you gre a packof hard hearted vicked deviis ! andme preachin sho long, and sho gooda shannon to you, dat you never didhear before, dat colt me a wholequarter of year in fludying him forde good of your shouls : And youvill give noting for de shuppert ofmy body.%I owe Jofeph Usher of Mackrelinfor dish coat ’pon my back, and de¬pended ’p011 &Sh day for getting de23i money, but de devil a one half, nor! one qaarter 1’Ii get yet ; phich if I. jdonotimmediately he viliput me’ponconfinement ia de county goal: Andden you ^devils, you shee fat vill: become of your shouls.Now you that have not the full; groats, ’twash better for you to haveI given noting at all; for de punilh-; meat of your friends vill not only beI fcorching and fcorching, &c but hal-j ving and quartering, and tearing inpieces. For you dat give tree pence,I vill pray tree quarters of your friendout, and leave t’oder quarter in fori t’odtr penny. And you dat give butvan penny, I vill pray one quarter outt’oder tree shall remain in torment asbefore. 80 you dat have no money,borrow you devils, borrow and makeup de full groat.t GUi* Whillo SfrL'uo & Sbanta, Amen.Bj my fhou! he va(h no bad 7 ^collection, alter all that now. ) .t ' m