Gow'sTOF a re wee!To which j\.d dcd jPADDY ABDALLAH’S LEGACY.JOIL\ BULL IS HIS NAME.A N N A.HARVEST 110 ME. /UJOHN ANDERSON, MT JO.Gresnoc»k:—Printed by W. SCO IT.GOW’S FAREWEEL TO WHISKY.YOU’VE surely heard o’ fair.ous NeilThe man rhat play’d the fiddle weel,I yvat 'he was a canty cbielhAnd dearly lo’ed the Whisky, O.And ay since be wore tartan trews,Ke dearly lo’ed the Athole brose;And wae he was, you may suppose.To play fareweel to Whisky, O.Alake, quoth Neil, I’m frail ancf auld.And find my biuid grow? unco cauld,I think ’twad make me i ;che and bauld,A wee drap Highland Whisky, O.Yet the doctors they do a’ agree,That whisky’s nae the drink for me ;Saul ! • quoth Neil, ’twill spoil my glee.Should they part me and Whisky.Tho’ I can get baith wine and ale,Aad find my head and fingers hale.( 3 )I’ll bs content, tho' legs should fail,To plav fareweel to Whisky, O.But still 1 rhink on auld langsyne,hen.Paradise our friends did tyne.Because something ran in their miftd.Forbid, like Highland Whisky, O.Come a’ ye “powers of music, come 1I find my heart grows unco gV,m»My fiddle-strings will no play bum.To say farewell to Whisky, O.Yet I’ll tak my fiddle in my hand.And screw the strings up while they’ll standTo mak’ a lamentation grand,Ou gude auld. Highland Whisky, O.PADDY ABDALI AH’S LEGACY.*My father he left me a snug little cot,Which by one trifling accident I never got jFor dying without his will having been madeMot a legacy in it ever was paid !Foorallallo, O hone ! gramachreg, whack’Twas a neat little cot, built with weather-boastout,Which kept every thing else but the weat]clean out $' ( 4 ). a P'g'Sty for poultry without any door,, It was two stories high, and both on the eroundi1 floor.j- Foorallalloo, &c.A beautiful garden with weeds overrun,And an elegant fish-pond dried up by the sun ;|I hen the house stood convenient enough, youimay say.Next door to the whiskey-shop over the way. IFoorailailoo, &c. ITwas a freehold estate, heir-at-law was myself, jSo to law went about it, of course with an elf, |Gain d the cause, but to try it so Iona' time re-1quir d.The freehold I lost, ’cause the lease had expir’d. |„ Foorallalloo, &c.JOHN BULL IS HIS NAME.r WHILS T some of the ancients are lavish in< praise,‘■And boast what great characters brighten’cdays,rjl 11 sing you a man not unnotic’d by fame..1 hat shall rival them all, and John Bull is hisname,♦ 4( 5 ).His pasture, brave fellow, is liberty’s field.Fenc'd round by reHqior. impregnable shield !rOf concience and rights, he’s so fully aware,‘That his motto must strike you, ’tis ‘ touchthem who dare 1Constitution his cr liar, just laws his gold chain' Whi-h, by magic elastic, extends o’er the main,Where, in grand, amphitheatres of wood, hisdread roar,'Spreads terror or stillness, on every shore.His patience aad power have often been try’d,The first does him honor, the last is his pride ;y et so geii’rous his nature. al!i-»'’ry fce scorns.But woe to the man that dares play with hishorns. k ,Shou’d Boney once venture to come wi ’.inreachOf John, as he rambles along the green beach.I’d lay a round wager, one hundred to ten,That he’ll never say, ‘ parlez vous Francois*ag in.So now brother Britons, I t’s cheerfully sing,Long life to John Bull, and his K- f'per the King,Nor forget the good Ldy, Old England, theirmether.For sure the whole world can’t produce suchanother.( 6 )ANNA.TES TREEN [ had a pint o’ wine,A place where body saw na ;Yestreen lay on this breast o’ MineThe raven locks of Anna.The hunpTv Jew, in Wilderness,Rejoicing o’er his mannaWas nauthing to my honey blissUpon the lips of Anna. 'Ye monarchs, rake the east and west,Frae Isdus to Savannah,Gie me within my s raining graspThe melting form of Anna.Then I’ll despise imperial charms,•An Empress, or Sultana ;■While dying raptures, in her arms,I give and take with Anna.Awa, thou flaunting god of day !Awa thou pale Diana 1Ilk star gae hide thy twinkling ray,When I’m to meet my Anna,> ( 7 )Eonie itt thy raven-plumage, Night!Sun, moon, and stars, withdrawn a’,Lnd bring an angd-pen to write, IV]y transport? \si’ my Anna.HARVEST HOME.'[AFL ! hail to the merry harvest h6me1 o sport, and song, and nappy -ale j.et ev’ry friend and neighbour come.No proud distinction here prevail.Hail, See.'he master and the humble hind,,i Here pass the jest w ith equal glee.'he wife is as the master kind,And all is hospitality.Hai! Sec.few rustic Robin sfags of love,Ana gigling Jane approves the lay,non the merry dancers move,While gaily glide the hours away.Hail &c.rnited each tongue, unlock’d each heart.Good humour uncorrupfed flows,o grief till day-light bids them pmt,'Such joys the harvest home bestows.Hail,&c.( 8 )JOHN ANDERSON, MY JO.John Anderson my jo, John,When we were first acquaint,'Your locks were like the raven.Your bonny brow was brent;But now your brow is bald. John,Your locks are like the snaw :Buf blessings on your frosty pow,John Anderson my jo.John Anderson my jo, John,We clamb the hill thegither.And mony a canty day. John,. We’ve.had wi* ane anirher ;Now wt maffn totter down,,John,But hagid in hand we’ll go,And sleep thegither at the foot,John Andersen my jo.FINIS.