PARTICULAR ACCOUNT *OF THEMURDER OF MR THO5 JfFARE,THE^ TRIAL OF JOHN THURTELLAND JOSEPH HUNT,AND THEEXECUTION OF THURTEJhL.EDINBURGH:Printed for the Booksellers..\. ’'.v '■yM.if.jf.- ••• ••■' • r v".; -■ACCOUNTVi MURDER OF MR THOs WEARE,| £ ^ N Friday, the 24th October 1823,about eight o'clock in the evening,«j as a Mr P. Smith was proceeding, walk-(| mg behind a donkey chaise, wherein hisr1 wife was riding, from the house of a MrNicholls, at Batler’s Gre«n, to his ownresidence in Kemp’s-row, Aklehliam, inthe county of Hertford, on approachingGill's-Hill-Lane he heard the report of agun or pistol, which was succeeded bygroans seemingly from the same quarter.Mrs Smith being terrified at this, he wasapprehensive of leaving her, and so madethe best of their way home. The sameevening, about the same hour, a man ofthe name of Freeman saw a gig with twogentlemen in it in Gill’s-Hiil-jLane, anthe horse appearing to have been drive]very hard, remarked to them, “ they haidriven fastbut no answer was returned,On the following morning two labourers,Hetherington and William Hunt, at wcrk|in Gill’s-Hill-Lahe, saw two men saunter-fing along the lane, ^nd observed them]stoop down, as if searching for something,iji t,he, hf dgCv ; When accosted by WmHunt, one of the men said he had beencapsized out of his gig there the eveningbefore. After drib' df them had taken upsomething* from the hedge, they bothwent towards Gill’s Hill, where there isa cottage, at that time inhabited by a MrProhort, the lane being unfrequented,by persons going to or from the•Jpolftage, On the same morning, one ofthe laboiifera found ft pistol and a pen-knifb by the road-side; the fornteroef-which tvas covered wtih blood and bits of |haialld the inside contained some por-tiorvs of what a surgeon declared to behuman brains. Some of these mysteri¬ous circumstances having been communi¬cated, on the following day, to MessrsClottOrbuck and Mason, Magistrates atWatford,Hertford, a diligent enquirywas1 immediately set on foot; and some^iitpicioRS fulling on the occupant ftf5\fe Gili’a-hill Cottage a!\€l his assoc-^te-s, late,s i on Tuesday night Mr. ^robett/'and a -man3 named Thomas Thurteil, were taken intoi (pi!stodT,-jahd,-lodged in;St.-Alban’s Castle.% for farther examination. On Wedr^esday*1 morning early, ,a,Mr John Thurtpll,, (the-Wbrother of Thomas), ? and a Air.,SHunt, -were taken, upj the former Fit thpCoach and Horses, ,Conduit-street^; Bond-Istreet, and the latter at his own lodgings^No. 19, King-street, Golden-square, un¬der a warrant from the Magistrates atWatford. In the room occupied by JohnThurteil, a large and a small pistol jver^found, and some clothes which were muchmarked, and in some places almost makt'din blood. After a short .examination.a%Bovf-street, they- were conveyed to Wat-,ford, and there-examined. The examin-p ation of the persons apprehended, of thp,i witnesses’ above-mentioned, and of MrPrabert’s servants, was continued throughthe niglit, and did not terminate’till rdiieo’clock oh Thursday morning. Beforethat time, Joseph Hunt, one of the per¬sons who had been apprehended, had Teeninduced to disclose the particulars of theI suspebted transaction ; when it turnecTI out, according to his confession, that JohnThurteil, one of the.'prisoner^ had, on6the Friday evening in question, murdereda person of the name of Weare, at thespot in Gill's-Hill-Lane where the twomen had been seen seeking in the hedge ;■ jthat the body of the murdered man 1was, first of all, on that evening, disposed .of in a pond in the grounds belonging tothe house occupied by Probert, and laythere till Monday, when it was removedto a pond two miles distant, and there 'thrown in and left. Mr Hunt concluded |his confession by offering to conduct the 1Magistrates to the spot where the bodywas deposited.In consequence of this offer, Hunt, ao ]companied by Mr Noel, the Solicitor forthe prosecution, and a sufficient numberof officers, proceeded in post chaises tothe spot alluded to ; and ©n arriving near ?a pond which is on the side of a lane |leading from Battledore Green to Radlet,in the parish of 41denhara, about two |miles from the place where the murderwas committed, Hunt said the body- ;would he found in that pond. After twoattempts with a drag, the body of a man,the upper part of which was enveloped ina new sack, the feet crossed and tiedwith- a cord, having a red shawl hand-round t^e iieck, was , brought7,, forth ; aud which handkerchief was, attithe trial, proved to have belonged to. John Tkurtell. On the body being dis-pavered, a Coroners’ Inquest was imme-. kliately summoned, which was according¬ly held on Friday the 31st October, atf the Artichoke, in the village cf Elstree,rnand continued on the ensuing day.From the inquest, and other evidence,I the following appears to be the outline ofjljthe whole:—f! had, on several occasions, been gamblingtogether. On the Thursday precedingi the day of the murder, William Rexwor-.1 thy, proprietor of the billiard-rooms, No.14, Spring Gardens, saw .John Thurtell!and Mr Weare at his house together,and understood from the latter that hewas to go with the former, on his invita-Ition, into Hertfordshire, for a few days’shooting. On the Friday, about threeo’clock in the afternoon, Mr Weare call¬ed on Mr Rex worthy, and told him hewas then on his way to join John Thur-tell on the Edgeware-rcad. When MrRexworthy heard that John Thurtell wascharged with the murder of some one• .8 Jwhose body had hot been found, he lefttown, and being present, at the. Coroners’Inquest, identified the body to be that of jMr Weare. From the evidence of Mr‘|Tetsall, the landlord of the 'Coach and.Horses, Conduit-street, Bond-street, itappeared that John Thurjell, Hunt, Pro-, ]-bert, and a Mr Noyes, brother-in-law to jthe latter, were all at his house on theday the murder was committed, leavingit between' five and six, having, as heunderstood, hired one gig at Mr Probatt’s, !Charing-Cross, and having also Mr Pro- 1bert’s own gig with them. ThomasThurteil declared, that on Friday even¬ing his brother John drove away fromthe Coach and Horses in a gig drawn bya grey horse, which Hunt had brought |to the door. He then saw that his bro- 1ther had two pistols, and inquired whathe was going to do with them ?, Hunt,accompanying his question with a dread- |ful expression, asked “ -what, was that'to. |him?” and turning to Probert, said,“ Bill, will you be in it ?” Hunt hadpreviously brought a sack and some cord,which he put into John Thurtell’s gig,and said, “it was all right; drive on ” (In the evening, while at the Coacli and |Horses, Hunt had said to John-Thurtell, !9*• Jack, our friends 'fiad better be civil,i or they will get'served cutexpressionswhifcb ‘at theft ’tee were not mufch re-i|gar(ied;'becdUfe constantly in theiiKa^.t0^7 lining the most shdciing arid! brittrir phrases. ■ Here, as far as the evi-i d'ence is yet* gohep W lose sight of John"i Thurtle for a*'^ime ; but the journey of[Hunt and Probert down to the nei^i-;i bauthood of ftili’s-hiil' Cottage is ascer-fs tamed, not only byv the confession ofI Hunt, but Vf the various stoppage* theytilmada oh the, road to drink. Freeman;isaw a gig with two persons enter thea lane, bat he did not recognize JohnIThurtle. ProbifrPs two servants, a wo¬man and a boy, however, have swornthat their master returned home on Fri¬day evening about nine o’clock, bringingHunt with him ; arid they stated thatJohn Thurtell arrived in a ghj a shorttime before their master and Hunt.They all three went out with a ianthomand candle about ten o’clock, rind, as itappears from Mrs Prchert’s evidence,took a horse from the stable with themProbert said they were going to a MrNicholas on bueines, and returned abouteleven. They then supped, and madethemselves merry, and Huj.it and Thur-a® _ •*tell sat up all night drinking and 8moak«-ing. In the morning, both ojf them wcptioufc^about six o’clock, and gqon afterfollowed by Mr Probert; they, were’sent half an hour, and returned before,him. There can bfe little doubt but theywere the persons seen by the labourers atwork on the rqad on the morning in ques¬tion, though these irorkm^m had some ;;difficulty in identifying them, and wouldnot swear to this point, flunt confesses,.however, that they were the two persons, iOn the Saturday morning the boy Haddia :saw the clothes John Thurte.ll wore underhis great coat, and his boots, and they |were all covered with dirb and on hisgreat-coat were spots of blood. Huntrubbed ThurteU’s coat with a wet sponge, |but had no marks of blood on his ownclothes. On the $ame day, the boynoticed several lumps of blood on the dirt \heaps, and two holes in the hedge ofOilPs-Hill-Lane. He also saw a gun anda mahogany case at Probert’s on Satuf-day morning, which were afterwards iden¬tified as Mr Weare’s property ; a travell¬ing bag belonging to -the deceased wasalso shewn him, and he stated he hadseen a similar one at his master’s on Sa¬turday morning. It appears that PlantItrand Thurtell left the cottage on Satur¬day, sind came to town, and that theyReturned to the cottage on Sunday, ac-(|companied by Thomas Thurtell'and firiNoyes, brother-in law of Mr Probert’*.|On Monday, Hunt and Thomas ThurteUdreturned to town in Mr Probert’s gig,. bringing with them Mr Prdbert’s - boy,who was left at the coach and Horses,till he was removed by a police officer cmi';i Wednesday.I On that day, too, as already Stated,I; Hunt and John Thbrtell were apprehend-'led, and cn the Tjerson of the later wasifound a pistol, the fellow of the ohe pick-fed up in tire lane. In his waistcoat wereiten swan-shot, a penknife, and a pistolkey. The penknife was identified by ,Mr’Ilexworthy as the property of the deceas¬ed, and he saw it in his possession on theFriday when Mr Weare left London.Mr Ruthven, the officer, also producedon the Coroners’ Inquest a muslin hand¬kerchief, marked with blood, a blackwaistcoat marked with blood, as if abloody hand had been thrust into oneof the pockets, and a coat which was' marked with blood in several places:, alli of which were found on John Thurtell,of in. his possession. Several other pqr-Htions of property, which wa^ identified byMr Eexirorthy as having belonged to the;deceased, v/ere found at Hunt’s lodgings,^ai:d produced on the Coroner% Inquest,]as well as a piece of cord which corespond-ed with the piece of cord with which the|deceased’s legs were tied. In Mr Pro-bert’s stable, a sack, and a torn and;bloody shirt, were found on Thursday,with tha initials of .the deceased, and it jwas of the sam§ make as a shirt found at iJohn Thurtell’s lodgings. The gig whichwas hired for John Thurtell and himself,5by .Hunt, on Monday, and which was used jto convey the’dead body, was observed,when. taken home, to be stained withblood. The squab in Mr Probert’s room |was also marked with blood.The abdre: seem to be all the facts of \the case as they have been stated by the *different witnesses, or elicited by an ex- fanimation of them. They may be elucr- ,dated by the following facts connected *with subsequent discoveries :—■ Before leaving London on the Friday |evening,: it appears Thurtell and Hunthad agreed the latter should be put downby Probe it at a -certain place called Phil-limorets. Lodge, which accordingly tookplace,, and that Probert then drove on to1isihis own house. Here he met John Thur-Stell, by whose directions he went backufor Hunt, and brought him up to the cot-jitage in the gig. Tlie pregumptipn. there-<iifore is, that the murder, and the whole: (scheme for carrying it into effect, wasplanned (and was to be executed) byiTburtell and Hunt conjointly. Owing,IpoweV'er, to Hunt being later than theAppointed time, which" again was owingoto stopping and drinking on the road,I'Tburtell performed tl>.e whole deed him-iself. How it was executed, is not exact-jly known. From the state of the body,rithere is reason to believe that the firstijijassaiilt was firing a pistol at Mr Wear’s(head, and the cheek-bone turned the ballJpside; that afterwards his scull was frac¬tured by repeated punches with the muz-zL of a pistol; and that, finally, histhroas was cut, while he was lying on and1grasping his assailant. But whether thefirst assault was made on Mr Weare whenin the gig, or he had been induced firstof all to alight, is not exactly ascertainedAfter he was murdered, T hurt ell draggedthe corpse through a hedge, and left it?lying there till the arrival of Probert andHunt, when all the three went down thelane and removed it, carrying it, andr~--      14throwing it into the pond close to Pro-berPs liouse. It was first of all stripped,bn t v/here this opperation was earned in¬to effect is not ascertained. On Monday ;night John Thnrteli and Hunt went down !to Probe!Ps again, and with his assis-itance the body wag taken out of the pond, ‘put into a gig, carried a way a distance of:nearly two miles, and thrown into theplace where it was found.TRIAL AND SENTENCEOFTHURTELL AND HUNT|f \N Tuesday the Gth January 132*.'^ bhe prisoners, John Thurtell and |Joseph Hunt* were brought up-for trial |at the Hertford Adjourned Assizes, atail early hour in the morning. The |evening was far advanced, when the ex.~culpatory evidence were yet to be ex-1amined, and the defence for-the prisonersleanl, foi1 t,'hich cause it was judgednecessary to adjourn the proceedings til!> .he ensuing d4y.On Wednesday, the pressure of therjrrowd exceeded, if possible, that of thepreceeding day. The prisoner, Tfcurtell,being called upon for his defence, after ai(short pause, 'he addressed the Court inj:kn audible voice, wktli confidence, and(in every respect in a collected manner,i He appeared in very high 'spirits, havings (before Idm a large quantity of mantJscriptScontaining the beads of his defence, andnade repeated' calls, at his snuff-box.|JHunt appeared more dejected; and seem-ied to e passed an anxious night. Hisjldefence was read by the clerk, in whichflie set forth that, previous to his confes-fUion before the Magistrate* of Watford,| a.promise of pardon kad been extended| to him, provided he should be found to| have had no actual hand in the murder.I The evidence was then summed up, andwhich was several times interrupted byThurtell making occasional remarks asu it proceeded. Here Thurtle asserted fcisinnocence for the last time, and request¬ed that the day of execution might bepostpo’ned,,but which was not acceded to.Sentence was then passed upon theretwo unfev\fipafe criminals, .in the foflpw-.^ing terms :—“ That you, John' Thurtelf, "betaken to the place ‘Fromwhence'came* and from thence that yon takpl*on Friday, the 9th instant, to a place ofexecution,. and. that you be hanged bythe neck till you be dpad, and that yourbody be taken down and given to thesurgeons, fur. dissection. As fbjr /Vdh,*Joseph Hunt, the sentence of tlieltUt fs,that you be taken from hence to theplace from, whence you came, and fromthence .to. a place of 'e’xeeiitl^n, mid that:,yen be banged by the neck'till you bedead; and may God of his infinitymercy have compassion . on bdtfi yourspule.’5 V ‘When the sentence- was being pro¬nounced, Hunt’s dejection increasedbut Thurtpll’s confidence never’left hini|for an instant ; and after the sentence hd fwent out of the dock with a firm step*JRespile -eccived for Joseph Hun '.Joseph Hunt received ai respite for a ,week, which was afterwards followed by|; , _ ,( 17 .A giA^rat respite ; and it is supposed HefciU be transported for life.^Conduct of Thiirlcll after Ms Convktion.'After Sentence was passed upon thisunhappy criminal, he became seriouslyievoted to the solemnities which belongo the dread transition from life to death ;pedeplored the follies and the crimes.which stained his career in this world ; he;implored forgiveness of that Great Being,(who is the author and disposer of humanijdestiny. He bitterly lamented the sor-tow and the shame cast,‘ by his fate, up-lon his fathers family ; hut of the pariicu-^lar deed for which he was sentenced topuffer, he expressed no feeling or obser-Jvatmq. He admitted, that he had a'fairJjand' impartial trial, and complained of nojcne. With Hunt he repeatedly shaked(hands, and unreservedly gave him hisforgiveness. He frequently declared thatlie no longer bore any resentment .against! any human being', itill, however, quite: consistently wbh h^s High ’rOsoliit,ion andI unshaken '^finn^Ss, he calmly protestedI his p.referfehce" of his bWh situation to81that of Probert. Not a symptom of wealf-,ness or immanliness escaped him.The unfortunate Thurtell passed th'evening of Thursday in the greatest tran¬quillity and firmness. He went .to bedat one on Friday morning, and slept withthe utmost composure until seven, whenthe Reverend Mr Franklin arrived, andthe prisoner was awakened to receive, hispious attentions. From that moment hewas entirely engaged in devotion. Norfor one moment did his fortitude fail him.He was affected most deeply when his;brother finally parted from him at four-o’clock on Thursday afternoon, but he1speedily resumed his usual calm manner.The brother hurst away from him almostsuffocated with grief. He held his hand-;kerchief over his eyes, ami the greater part,of his face as he entered the coach that *conveyed him to London. He was mild ‘and unreserved in answering such ques¬tions as were asked.Thurtell, In the course of conversation,again alluded to Probert. He said, “ Iforgive Probert ,f^om the bottom of myheart; I hope he will live to repent of hispast sins. But, iiotwithstandjng the aT\>19yl situation in which I am placed, were| to be offered life for 100 years, with! j§20^000, I would rather die, as 1 an> a-wuf to do, than live degraded and disrgraced like him ; a vagabond walking li¬mit the streets, pointed at by the fingei:>f scorn. He has always been a wicked:;inan, but my sincere hope is—that he■nay take warning, and turn from his evildrays.”EXECUTIONOFJOHN THURTLE.John Thurteli stepped up with a pecu-liifcrly solemn, but resolutely firm andmanly step. His air and look were clili-erent from his usual manner, only bymore marked gravity and seriousness.This was considerably increased by his.being unshaven. He advanced forward20•with a most deliberate pace,-'arid with the:most becoming manner he gave his handto the Under Sheriff who was" at the ex- jtreme end of the drop.The executioner now placed him onvthe spot ^assigned for hint, --proceeded to^take of his h-^.t and liis neckcloth ; at thismoment he looked at the crowd, andmade a slight inclination to a bow—-a mo¬tion that had not been uncommon withhim in Court. Instantly every head wasuncovered, and many among the crowdmuttered, “ What a gentleman !” Hisappearance at this moment was interest¬ing and affecting beyond the power of*description.Ke was dressed in a brown surtout,which appeared nearly new, light breechesand gaiters, and a fashionable waistcoat,with gilt buttons. The executioner nextproduced »a very thin . night-cap, with|which he covered bis-head ; but it evi-jdently did not obstruct his view. The*jUnder Sheriff, the gaoler, and the turn-1key shook'- him by the hand. Thereseemed to be grbr.t affection in Ins man¬ner of parti-Pg with them. Indeed, thefeeling oeeibed to be reciprocal. In the 'course of his defence, on Wednesday,Mr W ilson had shed tears, and the turn-fey* albeit imuseil to the malting[ihoad,5/'■sob’bed atui blubbered like a child.lAi'ter the exectitieiier had fastened theiji’ope round his ntck, and while he wasfastening it to the beam, Thurtell turnedtowards him more than once, and appear¬ed to. make some, observations to him.lie was understood to say, “ There’shardly any'fall,” The executioner appear¬ed to explain .to him that it was quitesufficient. As if not satisfied with hisi authority, he addressed himself to MrI Wilson, who was still, behind. He then;i]resumed his position, and stood unmoved|as a rock till: the tedious process of adjust-?t ing the rope was finished. The scenei was such as deeply affected every heart,i and evidently unmanned many.The executioner now left the drop,and went to his post below.Mr Wilson, who was the only one nowleft with him, took him by the hand, and1 Thurtell was heard distinctly, and in the! most cordial manner, to say, “ G©d Al-1 mighty bless you !” At five minutespast twelve the drop fell, and the personof John Thurtell dropped beneath theplatform ; a suppressed groan was heardfrom the multitude. The executionerharing immediately caught him by the22legs, there appeared no other movementof the body but such as he effected* Itwas quite manifest that ThurteU’s spiritcontinued unshaken till it left its earthlymansion for ever.Thus terminated the life of JohnThurtell, at the early age of thirty; aman endowed with great talents, aridiruproted by a gentleman’s education.There is no idea that Thurtell hasmade any confession.It might have been natural to expectthat the fate of Thurtell would bare ex-oited, if not terror, at least reflection inthe minds of many of many of his formerassociates ; but, extraordinary as it mayappear, it is still not less true, that thoughthey were aware that Thurtell’s firstplunge into crime was occasioned by hisprediction for prize-fighting and similarsavage amusements, many of them werepecidating, at the very moment beforehis death, whether he had heard of therecent fight which took place near Wor¬cester.We know not what the feelings of such !men may be; but we should have expect-f 2S|d, thai if they entertained the slightest£gard for the good opinion of their feliow-Ijountrymen, they would have refrainedrom venturing upon such a topic at such!: moment. No words can describe ourj'iisgust at conduct so revolting to decen-I jy, humanity, and all proper feeling. Welihall only say that it was in perfect keep¬ing with the parlies from whom it pro- -needed; we mean the gentlemen of thei ancy—the ruffians of the ring.. - • ; . .tF IN / S.’■ ‘ ' ’ r*<>. ‘ . . " ; - ; ‘ Jml f■'. ■ ■ • :. 1 ^ ’ t ' ff-wyarj