THEH APPYMANTo which is adde i; theLife of Faith,Being an answer to thatQu^ticr Towto live in this world so as to live inHeaven.By the Revd Mr J.ihh Belchks.A POEM on the DEAT .4 of aPROFLIGATE.ANDRESIGNA IONoaChristian Philosophy.ALSOA Glimpse of Gloryor aGospel Discovery of Emraanners LandBy th? Rev.Mr Jaw s Fisher,~~Z Si {RUNG: -Printed by M. RandalhAt Blfe';., iwrg {3( nstj*i&:bs ifjS*a& jjil•p-S ■itliJas' aWlI . t uii mrrbslTHKLife of Faith.Bear Brother.Ymirs l receiv¬ed, and thought on that cjueftion, oeiug.How to live in thi* W rw, fo a* to livein Heaven ? It Vs one of the coca < oapk.-is of my heart, which I have oftenoccasion to ftucly ^atid tho-Store cakegme not unprovided.It is hard to keep the helm up aga’nftfo many crols winds as we meet withal,4upon this fea of fire and glafs. Theman ki.owetb not his own heart, thatfinds it not difficult to break throughthe entanglements of the worl.' ; crea¬ture Anile* flop and em.ee swav the af¬fections from Jelus Chrift ; creature-frowns encompais ana tempeftuatc theSpirit, that it thinks it doeth well to beangry. Botn ways Grace is a loitr. Weh*ve all ne-d to watch and pray, left weenter into temptation t he greateft ofy6ur conflicts and caufes of complaints,item to have their original here : temp¬tations follow tempters.. A* there aretwo predominant qualities in the temperof every body, fo there are two predom¬inant sins in the* temper of every heart.Pride is one in all men in the world.%1 will tell you familiarly what Godha h done for my tbul ; and .n whatstate my foul keeps towards himfelf.I am come to a conclusion to look af¬ter no great matters in the world, but toknow Chrift and him crucified. I makebe ft way in a low gale ; a high fpirit anda high fail together will be dangerons,and therefore I prepare to live low. 1desire not much ; 1 pray againft it. myftucy it my calling } fo much as to tend5that without diflractior, t am bound toplead for, and more I desire not. Bjmy fecluded retirements, I have the ad¬vantage to obferve how every day’s oc¬casions infensibly wear off the heart fromGod, and bury it in itf'elf, which theywho live in care and slumber cannot befeasible of.I have come to fee a need of everything God gives me, and to want noth¬ing that he denies me. There is no dif-penfation . though afflictive, but either in»t, or after it I find I could not b« with¬out it; whether ;t be taken from me ornot given to me. fooner or later Godquiets me in hicnfelf without,it. I caftall my concerns on the Lord, and livefecurely on the care and wifdona of myheavenly Father.My ways, you know, are, in fomefenfe, hedged up with thorns, and growdarker and darker daily : But yet l dif-truft not my God in the leaft, and livemore quietly in the ablenc# of all byfaith, than I fhould do, (lam perfuaded)if I pofsefsed them.I think the Lord deals kindly withme, to make me J>e!ieve for all my mer-6cl't, before I have them i they will thenbe Tfa^.c?, Ions of lauchter. he lefs* R afon h?th to work upon the morefree'* Faith cafts itfelf upon the faith-fulneis of( od. I fit d that wh’Ist faithisffe<K'y nothing can disquiet me ; andwhen fa;th totters, nothing can eftablifhme If I trouble out amon^ft means 8ccreatures, 1 am prefently lost and cancor e to no end i btu if I ftaj' myfelf up¬on God, and leave him to work in hisown way and time l am at reft, and cansit down and sleep in a promife, when athouland rife up againft me • Thereforei; i w?y is not caft beforehand, but towork with G>d by the day Sufficentto the day is the evil thereof. I find fomuch to do continually with my callingand my heart, that 1 have no time topi zz< myielf with peradventures andfuturities.As for the ftate of the times they arvery gloom- and tempeftuous But hyCO :he heoth niage? Faith lies at an-cho in the m dstof the waves, and be¬lieves the aec mplifhment of the Prom-iie. though al) thofe overturnings, con-fttsionk and f eming impofsibilities*- puthis God do live, who is our God forever, and wid guide us to the death.I1Methinks I live becalm'd in his bolomas Ltithec, in fnch a cafe. I am notmuch concei t ed, let Chrift fee to it, Iknow prophecies are now dark, and thsbooks are fealed, and men have all beendeceived, and every ciftern fails, yetGod doth cent nue faithful 5 and faith-ftli is he that promifed, who will d > it.I believe thefe dark times are the vJtmbof a bright morning Many things moreI might have laid, but enough for theprelent.Oh I Brother, keep dole to God, andthen ;ou need fear nothing. Maintainfecret and intimate communion withGod and then a little of the creaturewill go a great way. fake time for pri¬vate duties j crowd not religion into acorner of the day. There is a Dutchproverb, Nothing is got by thieving, norloit by praying. Lay up all your goodin God, fo as to overbalance the fweet-nefs and bitternels of all creatures —Spend no time anxiously ia forehandcontrivances for the world, they neverfucteed ; God will run his difpeniationsanother way : Self-contrivances are theeffects of unbelief I can fpeax from ex¬perience. Would men fpend thole hoursthey run in plots and devices, in com-8IRUnion with God, and leave all on Kimby venturdome Relieving, they wouldhave more peace and comfort.I leave vou with your God and mine.The Lord Jefu* be with your Spirit*Prav for your own ioul, prav for Je¬rusalem, and pray hard for your poorBrother. Amen.A FEWVERSESBy the late Revd.Mr Killinghall,Upon Reading the foregoing Letter.I.IN all my troubles, fliarp and ftrongj., My leui to Jeius flice ;9My anchor-hold is firm in him,When fwelling billow* rife.II.His comfort* bear my Iprrit* up ;I truft a foil nful God :The furefoundation of my hopeIt in a Saviour’* blood.III.Loud hallelujahs sing, my foul.To thy Redeemer's name Jlb joy and lorfc w, life and death,His love is Rill the fame./AGLIMPSE OF GLORY,or, aGOSPEL DISCOVERY OFEmmanuefs Land,■ ' ' *'' ■ i iBy the ReverendMR J t *5 ES FISHER,STho difsen •' the Errors of the ,K*k of eofla^i, -liong with the great.Erskine. ft?. H was the •> ifter atXi eleven and removed to Glafgow,where he ierved h s great Mafter above39 years, aqddted in September, 1775.What fpeak we, men and anf of thelimits of divine power ? What talk weof hi* manifefti' g his excellency in oneor many, or innumerable worlds ? Is itnot manifefted to the ultermoft ? I heprotection of ever lb many armies ofcreatures can add nothing thereto, sincethe manifeftation of God in the fiefh i*/11the principal design of eternity ; and allother manifestations are in order to this.There ftands one among us ail arho iothe firft born of every creature ex ! ant.Or pofsibie r.ET re i? that man, in whomis visibly to be feen fuch glory, majefty,lovelinels fwectnefj compals:<m, mercy*juftice, wildom, end all treafures of over¬flowing fuincls of ex.ellei'ry, in luch anincomprehensible transcendent, emi¬nent, and fuper*bund<mr manner, as allthe believers are overwhelmed in a feaof delightful ravifhment for evermore.Couldft thou, O my God, manifeftthyfelf more clearly, familiarly iwe lycondefcending ? \Wiy with orierworlds, though th-ry were ; This is theonly one, since all my lovely vVdl-be¬loved dwells here Thy beamy, myfair one. darts round about thee, andfills this world with pafsing glory : yea,were this world millions of millions offtages, and ever to many times treaterthan it is, one ray of thy countenance,one glance of thine eye, would lightenand adorn it all. What though wecould ?iew and compreher d at oncethoulanus of thoufancs of created oara-difts of Oeauty one sight of Jhy God¬like yifage would 1 wallow up all angeis,12Lad you iuch a tweet manifeftation ofdivine i e&uty in the beginning as now.Is not our heaven now two heavens ?Since the efsential image cf God ftand-the here clothed with the human nature,as our ‘ everlafting King, Prielt,’ andthe. great Lord, ‘ Mtoialor Of the NewCovenant' the boundlefs treafure Of allfullt eis out of which we Ihail all be fil¬led and fatiated for evermore. Are wenot, as it were, conftrained betwixtllandir'g back and drawing near i Thefewho behold thee, what can they thinkof rhemielvcs ? Yet who can ice andrake rcil -until they be folded in thyrav'dhing embrace ? Verily thou artboth the fhame and glory of creatures.Created excellency is exalted in thee tothe highett |)itnh ; and all created ex¬cellency is beautified, <>ni oblcured be¬fore thee This is the man, men andangels by whom all things in heavenand earth dc fiour’fh and bloom. This |i*he Tree of Life, the great Vine of Gloryinto which we are all ingrafted, as fomany boughs and twigs : All the gloryof his father's houfe hangs upon him, theOffspring and llsue. as fo many chips andpicces'darting out from him. This is he,yi whom we have been ordained to thisblcfiednds from eternity ; This is he,.ISwho was promised to the people underthe firft difpenfation of the golpel; whowho was held forth by types and {hadowsunto them. This is he, by whom the car¬nal and beggarly elements of the worldwere deftroyed, the clear evident Golpel-difpenfation was brought in ; the hand-writing of the law cancelled, the vail bet¬wixt Jew and Gentile waa rent afsunder ithe nations were ingrafted into the old(lock of the peculiar peoples the abftrufe(ecrets of eternity were opened) thekingdoms were ihaken, the princes ofthe earth were fet up, and polled down,the church was preterved, and flourifh-ed in detpitc of all the vorld. This is,the M \N who ‘ wounded the heads’ o-ver many countries *, who * trode thewmt preis alone,’ and trampled the peo¬ple in his fury ; until all his raiment wasftained with blood. I his is He, wholename is called < Wonderful, Counsellorthe Almighty God, the everlafting Fa¬ther, the Prince of Peacev of the increafeof his government and peace there isno end/ i'his is the * STONE cut outwithout hands’ which fmote all the pow¬er, ftrengih and might of kingdoms,nations and languages-; and lo, all prin¬cipalities, and thrones, and powers, anddominions are broken to pieces together^uand berome like the chafT ot the fum-mer thr**ftnn£ floor that the wind hathcarried aw. y no behold • the Stone'which hatn fm ten to not ing ail tran¬sitory gior j. is become • x ediug (Teat,anti filieth all in all/ This is icw omnothing w^uld overcome; he enteredthe iifts wiih Oeath ant Hell and gave,them an emna! foil ; lo that they lieunder nis feer and the feet of the cho(-en, for ever and everCould ten thoufand deaths overcomehi ? Vere no* devil* and wicked menfools that imagin d to bind aim withatii les ? v¥hat would chains greaterthan many worlds, what would r.&nitenumbers of mountains of brafs be tohoi him down that he $le not ag.»ia ?« How did this Lion of the tribe of Ju¬dah roule h'mlelf from the sleep ofdeath like a mighty man after wine?'and mat " 1 eav n, and earth, an/, all toqu->ice ? Who but he the Standard-bearer am !•£ ten iboufand, Who butthe Prin-e of the Kings of the earth.Who but the Mighty Captain of theLo, d’s hofts could have done to valiant¬ly ? Thou, only hast done heroically,O Wei dtlt.’ved. Ifou little herees oftime, your magnanimity and heroic actsV/.15evanifh here ; eyen although vou haddone all you aid in your ow ftrength,and not in his. What though you iub-dued kingdoms, wrought righteouinefs,flopped the mouths of !ionss quenchedthe violence of fire, through weaknefswas mtde ftrong, put to flight the ar¬mies of the aliens ? All thd'e weredone t«r O faith i: t? n. Y-1 whathave w; * ii>e ? Cou d you have trodeth'_ wins prefs alone ? A id drunk thecup *t the wrath of the imi^hty trombrur lo bottom ? Could you have floodin the gap when infinite eterml veftge-ance like a mighty flood was cruihingin upon rebellious mankind ? Who eifeccuU have turned back the mighty cur- .rent ot fuch floods of wrath and pacifi- 'ed offended Maiefty, bringing rebels toftoop, and b received into mercy andfavour again ? Who elfe could havegiven hell fuch a blow as it fhall neverbe able to rile again. and raife men tofuch a pitch, as that they lhall neverfall * Who other could h- ve led capti¬vity captive, and purchafeu gifts formen, even for the rebellious ? Who o-ther could opened rhe gates of this ce-leftial paradife, fhut upon bale ungrate¬ful man, and exalted him, by thoulands©f ft ages, to more glory and excellencyJkff/rthan be Ml from ! hou art all in aUrthou art marrowWs, O Well-beloved,no niore romp »rTon* between thee anderraturcs. Hi' e yourielvt-g, at>d be c«n-fr ur ed, all 1< wer rxtel encies ; bt yesilent all creatures when he begins tofpeak ccrer yot r bees, aS you littleglone* and beaut es. -vh^n he doth ih^whis face; you are \.n^^ compared tohim tie i- all things Verily* in himdwells all fullnelr. Thou art not. Qheave u of heavens wortuy to be a foot-ftroi for his glorious feet. Infiniteworlds., erected above one another, werelow for him to tread upo<.. W vat areyou men and angels, that you (houldthus (land besioe him i That you Ihouldftt your head within that world, he ispleafeb to dwell in t Did he not won-dmulty londtlcet-d, you might run tothe v. ry end of the creation. What isour ftrength and beauty t On tfhofelegs do we ftand ? Are we able for onemo:-, nt to preferve in our integritywufcout him i Should we not all be¬come deformed in sin 1 Can he drawimo himlelf what he darts forth i Howis the pdiadiie of God planted withgoouly trees, blolsoming ano fl urilhingwith an eteriial veroure r but did theycot receive lap and life, and all f*om17this golden Branch of the fteat of Jetse,how in a moment fhould their goldenblofsoms wither, the:r fruit fall off, theirleaves decay and their root dry up ? Itis ten heavens of joy, O Well beloved,to know that thy love is unchangeable,and the!* that are united to thee by faith,in time and immediate beholding, ineternity, (hall never be disjoined fromthee *, but fhall ever remain dofe lockedin the arms of eternal love.No worlds to this world \ no happin*efs, ot this happinefs is the flower, andtop of all this difpeniations: Here isa confluence of innumerable provid¬ences, that (hall never becomprehended.Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonder¬ful works which thou haft done, and thythoughts which are to us ward, theycannot be reckoned up in order to thee,How evidently do I now lee, that thyways are innumerable ; and thy thou¬ghts unfearchable i My eyes are eter¬nally fixed upon thee O flower of allbeauty, and lovlinefs ? thou art the cen¬tre whereunto all desircablenefs and ex¬cellency betakes itfelf. In beholding thee1 behold all things. Art thou not lovedifcovered to the full ? Mercy mani-fefted to the higheft perfectionf Judge¬ment aind righteousnefs visibly, in its full\ISfplcndor ; what have we which i$ not inthee ? And what can a crature want,which i* cot in thee ? Shall we not, Oenjoyers be fatiated, beautified, ravifhedblefsed for evermore, with what infinitefullnefs of all the excellencies whichdwells in him ? «We behold to the fullthe glory as the glory of the only be¬gotten Son of the Father, full of graceand truth: And of thy grace we have allreceived, and grace for grace. We havereceiyed thy teftimony, have let to ourfeal that God is true : that thou Whomhe lent into the world, Ipeakeft the th¬ings of God; for he giveth not theSpiritby meafure un'-o thee. O how gre*t isthemyfteryt :odlinefsf God manifeft-ed in the flel^uftified in the Ipirit, feeaof angels preached unto the|G 'ntiles be¬lieved on in the world, received up intoglory. If this was wonderful in time,is it not ten thoufand times more fo now.When, the bright day of eternity hathbroken up If a sign of this by faith,was ravishing, and am I not now pafsedall the limits of fuch motions i O thisframe! O glory ! theu art malsie indeed.TTTAS born in the city of Regenera-don, brought up in the Parifli ofRepentance unto life, educated at theSchool of Obedience ; he works at theTrade of Diligence notwithftanding hehe has a large Ettate in the Country ofChriftian Contentment, and many timesdoes Jobs of Self Denial, He wears thePlain Garment of Humility, but has abetter to put on when he goes to Court,called the Robe of Chrift’s Righteouf-nefs. He often walks in the Valley ofSelf-abafement, and fometimes climbsthe de.e&able Mountain of SpiritualPrayer, and fups erery evening on thefame. He has M':at to Eat the Worldknows not off ; his Drink is the sincereMilk of the Word : thus the HappyMan lives and dies.When the Spirit opens up by hisbreathing* the iilver vein of thePromifeto the delettable Mountain, ( or M;iinth4/20tain of Myrrh and Hill of Frankinceofr.)Chrift fays come, well does Faith knowhis voice, the fmell of hit Garmentmakes them fly with good will to fee theKing in his beauty, wherefore Red inin their a apparel that you may know thecoftly purchafc I made of you, my dyedGarments proclaim what a dear boughtSpoufe thou haft been to me; But itsover and gone, the Baptifm no moreftraitens me, the deceale is accomplilhedatfjerufalem. 1 fee of the travil of mySoul and I am fatisfied, ye are my wit«neis, I am God by giving you living Breadand living Water, and making the foli-tary defer: to blofson as the Role ; be¬hold it is I.- behold'it is your God ; no¬thing to be feen here but wonderful God-Man. Faith has neither will or time towatte a look oft Him. I am your HolyOne, the Greater of Krael your (King ;your Creator is God, your Saviour isGod* your Redeemer is God, and God¬like things ihall be done for you, thatnone fhall pluck out of the Father hand,I and my Father are One, the very fame.Here Faith ftretches her wings in theimmeoflty of a three One GOO ! theHappy Man fees the Happy Day, whenthe*lotty looks of man is low and theLord alone exalted.SIRESIGNATION *onChristian Philosophy.•* Tho'he slay me. yet will 1 truft in him.Alimsht row &! whofe potent armutiftai.;* this vaft abode;Whofe love d.rect*. whofe care protects*Us pilgrims on life's road.Since pray’rs with imperfection mix'd*Can reach Perfection's ear }Since sinful man. contritely can*Unto his God draw near.Permit me, Lord 1 a child of earth*I’hy goodnefs to implore*1" approach thy throne, my wants makeKnown.And while I pray-^iDORi.Thou know'st the dubious path I tread.The conduct I purfue:Nay more, my heart (that fecret part,)Is open to thy view.2*Wherein I'm right, do thou confirmMe therein to ab.de ;From what is wrong, wkh thine arm strongDo me conduct and guide.I*>a11 my wand’rings bring me backUn o the path that’s right.Use love or fear $ means calm, fevere ;As fuits belt in thy sight.For num’rous ilia I humbly crave.Thy pardon, God ot Love!My crimes throughout paft time, blotoutFrom thy record above-What of this life’s good things I needThou knoweft, and wiltkmpart ;My wantsjiuppiy, remote or nigh.For, ever, good thou art.ThetUet me through life’s vale, with joy,’Walk cheerfully each day ;Nor be perplex'd cor with cares vex'd,For thou’rt my rock and ftay.If fortune’s fmiles my efforts crown.And profp’rous times betide,Let me men be, from pride keept free,And in thy love abide.23Should adverfe gales my courfe impede.Should sicknels wafts my form,Give me a mind, calm and resign’d,To meet affliction’s ftorm.In every ftate that peace be mine,• Which doth from consience flow ;That cordial iweet, that olifsed trwt,That antidote of woe.And when my days I’ve number’d here,And reach'd my laft abode,In that dread day, give me to fay,Bleis'd be the name of God.* I know that my redeemer lives.”His praise I’ll ever sing :He’s pav'd the w«y to emilefs day,—•* O grave ! where is thy victory ?« O Death ! where is thy fting r*24ON THE DEATHof a Profligate,My thoughts on woeful fubjects roll,Damnation and the dead,What horrors feize a guilty foul,Upon a dying bed.Lingering about thefe mortal ihorec.He makes a long delayTill, like a flood with rapid force,Death fweeps the wretche away.Then, fwift, and dreadful ftie defsepd*,Down to the fiery coalt,Amongft abominable friends,Herfelf a frightful ghoft.There endlefs crowds of Sinners lie.And darknefs makes their chains :Tortur'd with Keen difpair they cry,Tet wait for fiercer pains.Not all their anguifh and their blood.For their old guilt atones.Nor the Compdsion of a God,Shall hearken to their groansOh I may thy grace prevent my breathNor bid my tool remove.Till 1 have learn’d my Saviours deathsAnd well infur’d his love.FINIS.«*