ANARRATIVEOF THELIFEOFMRS. HAMILTON.Written by Herself.| The f /llowiug is a ti ue account ot the dealings of Godwith the Widow viaish Hamilton, who was born andeducated in the Romilh Religion, and afterwards con¬vened to the LhrilUdit Faith, as will appear in thisNarrative.*'4< S T I R L I tsr G tPrikted and Sold by C. Randall^a ateA NARRATIVEOF THELIFE OF MRS. HAMILTON.I WAS born in the city of Frankfort, inGermany, in the 7th year of my age myfather came to Char-efton. in South Carolina; ihis name was George Beckhoufe, by profef- 'fion a Roman Catholic. Be lived at Charles- |ton, until I was about 16 y^ars of age, whenI was married to Mr. Alexander Hamilton,an eminent merchant, who in the hontefl be-tween Britain and America, was (hot dead inhis own houfe. which was confumed, with ailour property, by fire. In this diftreffed fitua-tion, having no children except an adopteddaughter, thus contemplating on my misfor¬tune, my bell friend with all our lublianasfnatched from me, as it were in an inflant,created in me new and awful fenfations, which 'are beyond my power to relate. I thru fled Ito a rich unde for an afylum, who treated me :iwith the greateft refped and attention, and 1welcomed tne to his houfe ana fervants, with :all the accomodations that they could yield.:-or afford ; he offered to make me his heir* 1and dire&ed his lervants to treat me with all:the kindneis and reiped as though they werereally mine. 1 hveu there in the enjoyment.of all the comforts this world could afford*but was (till difconfolate, in confideration ofmy heavy lofs, and fo dreffed myfelfin mourn¬ing, and thus paffed through fome lonefomeclay and wearifome nights, for a confiderabletime, at length being dehrous to obtain fomerelief, 1 began to feek after various means ofrecreations, 'until viewing one particular fcenewhich brought the-death of my hufband tomy mind with fuch powerful fenfations, that1 head nearly fainted. The fliortnefs of life,; and certainty of death ; the fading nature ofi all worldly enjoyments were then plain to myIview, and my diftrefs was inexpreffible. Iwent home, took my bed with a heavy heartdrowned in melancholy, and with penfiveI mind and wearied limbs, l fell afleep andI; dreamed*. I thought I was in a beautifuln place as ever I faw j where there was all thet! mod truly delightful and fafhionable things inI; the world; alio cards and dice, plays that lhad been familiar with in my younger days,i We drank wine out of golden bowls, and hadevery thing the world deem delightful, I fatat the card table with an Epifcopalian prieft.Sand took a golden bowl and drank a healthito him, and then calling my eyes forward, I(beheld a beautiful field adorned with flowers'nof various kinds and fine colours: and a greatjcompany of firming people, dieffed in white1* Although fome peopte may make light oi 11 dr^am* yet Iwould beg your pardon for infertmg this, for. it was peculiarly(l.tcrcdiog to ms, nowevi.- foouth it Jtay loo< .o ocacrs.4.robes, with white palms in their hands. Theyall fang with mtlc lious harmony, fuch Ting¬ing as I had never heard before I faw alfothe angels from heaven, joining their fbngswith them The melody, union and harmonyof the fcene was truly inexpre flible. I thenlooked on the before mentioned prieft, and he 1looked black and very difagreeable, and my-felf likewife, I then fet down the bowl, & faidto them, 1 mull begone. As foon as I rofe upHaw a great wall between me and thofe fliiningones, the materials of which fcemed to be ofmetal, done and glafs. As 1 looked earneftly [faw a place where I could go through only Imud take off an extravagant head drefs w'hichI had on. I was determined that no ornamentin t.ie world fliould hinder me from the enjoy¬ment of fo happy a funation as I faw on the q*iher Tide of the wall, or to deliver me from mydiiagreeable company. So I caff my head drd'sinto the lire and came to iht wall; but I difco-vered a great fea before me, and muft of necef- tfit) pafs through it in order to get to th tt beau-tifulheld. While 1 was meditating howlfhould .^;e t thro* the fea, a negio came and pufhed meinto it: & itwas very boifterous and the waveswere fo high, that 1 was focn drove afhore a-gain. 1 he Capt ot thefe fhiningonesthtneame c-to me and laid. Do you fee a beautiful palace?;I anfwered, Yes: which was as large asithis globe, but it was ftill above this world,and had feats of foiid gold all around it.And this beautiful man afked me. if I fawthe golden feats. I told Him l did: Ht!told me I fhould have one of rhofe feats,I provided I a nq'iered my enemies. I nowwent with : he grcateft joy inexpr^irible ; andthere opened a botromlefs pit immediately be-i fore me, and 'he mouth of the pit reached from.wal to wall: and about three ftories down1 ihere was a berm And with grief Ithought it was impoffible for me to get to: the palace ; as I made a turn to go back,the ground gave way from under me, and! fell into the difmal pit, but happened to his1 upon this beam, and there T fat three days.' Then there came another man from thofe; fhining ones, and alked me. What I did:« there ? I tola him the pit was deep, andl I could not get cut, he then put his| hand in h’s pocket and took out a final! ball* of thread, and told me to take hold of onek end thereof. I told him, I was afraid theI thread would break, and I fhould be en¬tirely loft; but'he told me neverthelefs totake hold, #I got hold of it with both hands,and to my inexprt'Jible joy, was immediatelyout of the horrible pit. I then awoke andbehold it was a dreamAfter fome months meditation on myi dream, I fell alleep and dreamed the fameI dream again, and alfo a third time fhisbrought me to fuch ferious reflexions, that1 might in a manner fay, that 1 hardly durftdeep at all; yet was hill at a lofs for theinterpretation of my dream. I .arofe very* Tor this is'Chrift the rock,.6' *early one mani'inw and Vvrent to my uncleand aunt, and told them that I fa.v myuncle and aunt, the priefL and the people,♦ xtremely black in a dream, rued that Ifelt very much concerned about it; but notfo much as to prevent my going to balk, andother places, public where at times they woulda(k me to tell my dream, out of curiofity.I accordingly told it them frequently ; andafter a while by fuch conduct my troublesentirely left me. But in about a year andnine months thereafter, there came a gen¬tleman from Georgia to vifit me; he wasa very rich man ; and poffeffed wealth inabundance. The fecond titne •’e vifited me,he invited my uncle and aunt and myfelf tovitit him, and fee his plantation : according¬ly we all went together, and beheld his fitua-tion, which was. truly elegant. Tlis houfewas very large, and ornamented infide andout; on the top was a balcony, and a fum-mer feat therein. The thud time he came tovifit me, he brought me jult fuch a headdrefs as l dreamed about, and it pleafed me."We concluded to marry, and appointed atime when the nuptial ceremony ihould befolemnized- But about that time tfu-re wasa people called Baptifls in that place, whowere redicttled, and all manner of evilfpoken againit them. I confefs that 1 ha-/7ted the very fighfof th in and ha l it been7 in my power, would fo.on 'have banifnedthem out of my fight and the country too.The aforesaid gentleman ..took a walk oneday, and when he returned, he told mywncle, that one of his Saves was that daygoing to be dipt by a man that looked morelike a hangman than a pried^ this muchdilpleafed me l immediately replied, that Iwondered gentlemen of note wou d. 1’ulTerfuch fellows to go about the country cheat-in g and deceiving poor ignorant people in •fuch a m inner. My uncle faid he wouldgo and flog the flave home and not fufferthe dirty wench to be fo deluded, were itnot that a gentleman had appointed to vifithim that day 1 told him I would go, if hewould furnilii me with a carriage. Accor¬dingly I went. ( no fooner came to theplace, than l faw the mini her, and knew asibon as I faw him, although I never faw himbefore, that it was the fame man as l faw inmy dream, that handed me the ball ofthread and helped, me out of the pit. Thefight of this man fo affe&ed my mind, thatI was as one thunderflruck. He was thevery one whom I faw amongft the fhiningthrong of happy people, and I amongft theaccurfed black crew, i then thought t wascurfed in very deed, which flung me im¬mediately almolt into defpair j and thusin the greatefl: agony, I fell to the earth.Viewing myfelf undone for ever, and eter-: . s ‘naliy 16^. I was in the moft dep!ofab!e fitua-tion conceivable, and defnaired of ever goingfrom that place. I thought that the earthwas juft about to fwallow me up alive, intoevetlafting deftru&ion, of both foul andbody, and really expe&ed to fall immedia¬tely into the bottomlefs pit, , where therewas no recovery. My diftrefs was fo great,the people difcovered it, gathered arcundme on alt fides and fuppofed me in a fit,and fought means to recover me, but invain ; for my diftrefs was of fuch a naturethat medical afiiftance was entirely baffled ;I fainted and fell *0 the ground ; they liftedme into the coach again, and carried mehome to my uncle's houfe. A great com¬pany of people followed me. This fituationof mine greatly exafperated the minds ofthe people ; fome .fwore they would kill theminifter, ^becaufe they fuppofed he had be¬witched me: and my uncle immediatelylent for the Romilh Frieft to difpel the witch¬craft from me ; but his prefence was verydifagreeable to me. I told him to be gone,for we were all going to hell together. Ano¬ther minifter then came to me, but I couldnot bear the fight of him neither, for it ap¬peared to me that he had helped me to committhe unpardonable fin I told him to begone quick, and that he would neither go toheaven himfelf, nor let others: and as hewas turning to go from me, my aunt toldhim not tp mind what i faid $ for I was crazy.Then this minifter began to weep to fee mein i’uch a fiiuation, and advifed my undeto fend lor that Baptift miniller, to fee ifhe could take the witchcraft from Heaccordingly fent for him feventy five miles.The minilter willingly ca ne—they fet viiTualsand drink on the table for him, but duritnot let even a lervant go into the room wherehe was, lelt he Ihoutd bewitch them alio.At length J e came to fpeak with me, andalked me how I did: I told him l was apoor, miferable, lolt creature ' He told me,<it 1 was loll, I was one of thofe very per-Ions that Ciirift died for, and came tofeek and to lave. I told him. that was im-poflible, for 1 had committed the unpar¬donable fin: he faid that he thought thatmight be my miltake, for I did not knowenough. Alter he had talked fome time„he put his hand into his pocket and tookout the New feltament: it was the firffthat ever l fa.',v.# He read the thirdchapter of Mark, and gave his mind con-,ceming the unpardonable fin. He told mehe was going to vilit a gofpel finner, wholeca:e he thought was much worie thanmine, this way of expreffing himfelf frighten¬ed me very mucft indeed , for t now thoughtne aid not underkand my cale at all *faid, God willing he would, fee me againto morrow** 1 laid, pray Sir, don’t forgetme, and when he faw me fo affe&ed, he* I'his aludes to the want of it in her education.lofaid. Shall I pray for you before I go ? I !anfwered Yes. \Vhat lhail I pray for? I |told hi* to pray that the Lord might havemercy on me ^ with thtfe words he feem-ed aft'cded, which gave me to underftandthat he thought there was no mercy forme; but he kneeled down and prayed ; I jkneeled alfo; and when he fpake of thefpotleis purity of God, before whom fmlefsai gels veiled their faces, crying. Holy,holy, is the Lord God Almighty, and thatthe holinels and purity of Gqd filled inimen-fity. 1 thought it u'as impoffible that I couldhave mercy; and when he had finifliedhis prayer, he went avuv. After he wasgone, I remembered that the man of Godtold me that Chrilf came to lave even theword of finners, and 1 thought that 1 couldnot be w'orlt than the viUlL l then con-iidered that the fpotleis angels of whom hefpake, would rejoice over one finner thatrepenteth, though ever fo vile 1 thenimagined myfeif in a great king’s houte,vvtho had an only fon, and one ol the king’sfervants had eommitrets^crimes wrorihy ofdeath, and the executioner was about to Itrikethe fatal blow, when the king’s Ion camgiorwaid and offered to die, that die lervantmight live, the which he did, and fet the ler¬vant at liberty , which circum -ance moltreadily applied to my cafe. 1 thought IWas the very fervantj furprifing altonilli-ment filled my foul, I beheld the fon of' ■ .1^ ' '11God expiring in agonies unknown, by themalicious rage of wicked men. I thoughthe died to fave my life, and rofe again'for myjuftification, althouglf'I was at firft at a lofs tofee how one could die for fo many; butwhen I faw and conhdered that the naturalfun could fhine on thoufands, and eachperfon have as great a fhare of the fun asthough he was alone, I by this fimilitudeunder-Hood the myftery that although Chriftdied for many yet each one had a wholeSaviour. I then Taw that God could bejuft and juftify him that believeth in Jefus,even luch a wretch as I -was. In this view,no tongue can tell the extafy of joy that !was in, and became the fubjeft of; mydiftrefs left me, and I could give glory toGod with ail my heart. I longed to praifehim with every breath; my prayer was.Lord, ^hat -wilt thou have me to do ? Lord,fpeak for thy fervant hearetnUpon my uncle and aunt hearing thisof me, they came to the door; ! laid tothem, dear uncle and aunt, I fha'l not goto hell for Ghnft died for me and I havegot a whole Savior,, niy uncle then ihut$he door but my aunt burft into tears inhearing me talk on this fubjedt ft thencame into my mind that thrift was baptiz¬ed or ■ John in Jordan and I muft foUdwthe example and convince the world thatJ was not alhaiued to own my Saviour be¬fore men. The next day the mimlter came.as he told me, with the man whom he wentto.Vifit, and I told them that I had foundromfoit, that Jefus had appeared for my irelief, and that l w'as now willing to takeHim for my prophet^ prielt, and king ; that i1 felt determined to obey Him in all things ; ;and that I thought His laws and commandswere perfe&ly juft, and gladdening to e-very obedient foul. This declaration fromme, came fo unexpefled to the minifter,that be was overjoyed and furpriled, and faidto the other man, that yefterday was the^rft time that ever I heard any thingread from the Bible, and now fhe is ableto teach me (Taid he) plory to God inthe higheft, for He teaches as never Irantaught neither is heavenly inftru&ion de-pendent wi oily on human education. Ithen afked him if he was willing to baptizeme j he tcid me he jvas glad of the oppor¬tunity, if I deftred it j led him i longedto follow my 1 ord and Matter down thebanks of Jordan, and that he would haveto fend for me. for I comd not go to theplace myfelf; he told me he would, andaccordingly fent lor me the next Lord’sday morning. When I came down to thewater ftde, 1 related the dealings of Godwith me, which account proved inftrumen-tal in God’s hand’s of the awakening offifteen fouls. After the baptifm was admimftered, they helped me home to my un¬cle’s $ but behold he fhut the door againftweT and refufed to let me in. I called tomy daughter, but fhe gave me no anfv er.I now began to conclude, that he thatwould live godly in Chriit jefus muft fuiFerperfecution.Thus was I difowned by all my formerfriends and relations, in that place, andthe minifter feeing me in this diftreffed fitua-tion pitied me, and told me, that as longas he had one {lulling of money left, ifhould fhare part of it and defired menot to give way to trouble of this kind,! he then carried me away and hired myboard for three weeks, at the end of whichI time he came again, and baptized thofei fifteen perfons before mentioned for theyj all gave fatisfa&ory evidence of a work:: of grace in their hearts, and alfo brought5 carriage for me to go with him to North# Carolina as I did and there I lived with himI and his people three years: and a happy hap.py three years it was ro my poor foul, a thoughrej&ed by my natural relations : yet I think If had daily communion with a friend that Itick-cth clofer than earthly friends and relations;:i even Jefus, who was to me the chiefelti; among ten ihouland, and altogether lovely.11 really enjoyed that peace of mind which the« world can neirher give nor take away :3 yea, this peace was like a river, flowingfrom the right hand of Cod. So greatand imxpreflible was this peace and happinefs,which 1 then enjoyed that all other happmefs: looked extremely defpicable and wholly un.ft14worthy my attention. The world with allits gay and enticing charms courted myaffections to no purpofe, I thought I hadrather luffer afflictions with the people ofGod, than- to enjoy the pleafures of fin fora feafon having refpeCt to the recompence ofreward, which I daily' enjoyed ; efteemingthe reproaches of Chrift greater jiches thanthe treafures of Fgypt: yea. 1 efteem the pre*font afflictions not worthy to be compared withthe glory that {hall he revealed hereafter ;and 1 had rather be a door-keeper in thehoufe of my God, than to dwell in thetents of wickednefs, being poffeffed of alltht pomp, grandeur, and affluence, thatthis world can afford. I think, therefore,that however unworthy I may be of fuchhonour, I would with to invite and exhortall who know not thefe tilings by happyexperience, that they would try the exper¬iment for themfelves. You may think itflrange that I talk as 1 do but O, myfriends I long for your happinefs, 1 longto fee you rejoice in hope of the glory ofGod ; yea, I long to fee the faints on earthjoin their rejo cing fongs of praife to God,with the feraphic angels in heaven, at thenews of the return of one more prodigal.Come then, O tinner ! come and Le happy ;for why will ye die?. That God hj whom ,you live move, and have your being, tells iyOU plainly, that he delighteth not in the -death oi him that dkth ; but that he fiiould 11 * 15I turn and live j faying, Turn ye, turn ye,for why will ye die! Behold Jefus inter¬ceding at the right hand of the throne ofGod for you $ that God would exerthis almighty power, in turning youj mindfrom fin to rigbteoufnefs. O how can yourej; £1 fuch pathetic expreffions of divinebeneVoler.ce ? Or why fhali Jefus entreatin vain ? O why ♦will you oppofe the wilhes©f your bell; friend ? Or how can you bearI the thoughts of being cad off from the| prefence of the Lord, and from the gloryM of his power, fentenced to everlafting de-i ftru&ion ? O my dear friends ! think of thefej things, led you ihould come to cry whenj there be none to legatd or anfwer you ; But1 lead 1 weary your patience l wall purfue myy narrative :—^fter livmg three years in North Caro*1 lira as 1 obferved, I began to think of{1 my father, and his family, all buried iniji mi-feyy and Ft pffn fuperdition, and wilfully| ignorant. I thought it was pgflible,/, int ale 1 could ice them, that 1 might be made an[ indrument ix* God’s hands, of leading1 them to a cenfiueraiion of the folly of theirj vvays. 1 therefore thought very anxious about,the natter 1 alio felt a natural affectionifor them I aifo coniidcred that my father, i was a rich man, and i in . a dependantfituaticn, and knew, that it he had not. lod bis former regard for me, tf;at lie wouldjhc:p me, notwithdanding our uiderence, ofopinion; and that he would, as 1 thenthought delight to have me live with him.When I told my intentions to the breth¬ren they told me, I need not-go away onaccount of my being burthenfome to them, forthey were willing l rtiould live with themas long as I wifhed ; that I need not re¬gard then expence, for they had as willing¬ly maintain me as their own children , for ;we are o: e, faid they ; but Hill, if l couldnot content myfelf to ftay that they wouldhelp me the which the> did L then thankedthem, and took my leave, iad as I rode oft ina carriage the ;nver conduced verv difa-greeably ; 1 relented his conduct towards me,and • as angry with him (the which gave mefcruples.) Now was l fried with doubts con¬cerning n^felf, and began to think. 1 wasnot a Chrilban at all, but a mere hypocrite,and had been tryi g to deceive myftlt and oth¬ers ; but i could not deceive God who Know-eth Ml ihmgs I had thought I never ih midbe angry again, let what would happen to me.This gave me great anxiety of mind, whichladed tor a conliderable time. We at lengthhowever, arrived within three miles of myfather’s houfe, where 1 itopped, in hopes thatmy father would fend for me to come home.But the next day my brother came to thehoufe where 1 was, and the woman of thehoui'e laid to me, there’s your brother. Hiereader can hardly imagine the joy I feltto lee my brother again, whom I had notfeen for many years. I thought he would re**7j olce aifo to fee me, and therefore went to meethim, and reachtd out my ha id to him as aj token of friendftip ; but, (hockin? to relate,I faw in his face figns of difipprobation; hefrowned and ffepped back; and refufed to givehis hand; and faid to me. My father fays, you(halt not enter his houfe, for you are a dif-grace to the whole family. He etteems you as; a runaway, and a deluded heretic. Thef- re-I fleftions from my brother, you may well thinkj excited powerful ftnfations in my mind. Toi be thus difowned by my own father and broth-:!i er, and called a heretic ; now came a fairi trial of my faith and confidence in God. I) concluded that the caufe »f their alianation) of affeOion towards me, was became l wasi! a Chrillian, and if fo. it would become mei to aft like Chrift : who, when He was re-i? viled, reviled not again ; and when he wasq perfected, threatened not I thmk I can| truly fay, that all he faid to me. only ferved toI engage my foul to give glory to God thatII was cou-ted worthy to (uficr for Chriff'sil fake, which I through grace was determinedto do ; but fiill Satan tempted me to give upmy determination to live devoted to ood ; Ii was almoft tempted to go to mv father andfeign a repentance ot my ditenting from theRomifh Church But no fooner had I loqk«ed into the confequences of fuch a thing but Itook up my Teftament which my brethren hadij given me. and had a dt-fire to rea feme di.reckons from God what to do ; and the hrfti8fentence I ffad, was *■ Ho tbit wbl not for-fake father and mother for mv fake, is notworthy of me.” I now immediately law myduty plainly, and felt refolvcd to obey Godrather than man. Neverthelefs I thought Iwould go to the Romifn church, where Imight fee my father, and that he .might feeme alio ; peradventure, all his paternal aftec-tir n was not loft for me, and that v/hen hefaw me in a reduced {fate of poverty and dif-tre<s, it might poffibly affeft his heart I ac¬cordingly went. But, O my heart achedto fee thofe ftupid mortals bowing to theirimages and prielts. expecting they had pow-er to pardon fin Shocking thought! 1 eventrembled at the fight, and could hardly.con¬tain myfelf. As loon as the exercife was overr.,y father came out. I went to him, but was*fo overcame, that l could not fpeak for fomctime; at length I recovered itrengrh, butcould not forbear fcreaming, and fell downbefore him; but inflead of exciting pity in .him, he turned from me, as from an hereticunworthy of his notice, and would fay notingto me I then went home again, and hiredmy board for a fhort time, with what money jI had left, which my brethren had given mefor the exptnces of my journey. Scon after,, ,this, my father, whom I flill hoped had notloll all regard for me, fent a gentlemen to me t:who addreffed me in the following lan¬guage :—Mrs. Hamilton: Your honoured father!•, *9fent me to ftate to you the condifjons oh whicKhe will jeceive you as his child ags:'n, andforgive you all your pail difgr cefui folly ;which fhall not once be mentioned againltyou. And in cafe you comply, you muft re¬turn to the church from whence you haverevolted, and confefs your fins n revoltingas you have, and renounce your frantic no-,tions ot witchcraft and Ghrillianity, as youcall it; and you (hall become my beloveddaughter; but if not you mud expect noth¬ing from me. not even to own you as a daugh¬ter ; for I am determined to difown you incafe o: your obdi-nacy. I told the gentleman,that it was impofiible that he Ihouid difownme^ for bis name was on his record with thered of his children, and alfo my looks fo fa¬voured his, that all who faw us would knowfor a certainty that 1 was really his child,But notwithdanding all my confidence, I con-fidered that I mud of neceffity leave thatp’ace foon, for my money was now almoftIpent, and where to flee I did not know, beingdedicate of any Chridian friends there, thewhich put me in mind of Nicodemus, whofollowed his Lord by night. But dill I hadgreat trouble of mind: 1 the rather fearedthat 1 was like Judas ^ho denied and be¬trayed his Lord for filthy lucre’s fike, that is,in confideradon oi the temptation that I beforefpake of, concerning my going back to theKomifh church with a lie in my mouth, thenotwithdanding I thought to ferve my God20privately, the which I now difapproved of withgreat indignation However <nv father wasunwilling to give thd matter over fo, withoutanother trial to reclaim me from try hereby, ashe named it he therefore employed a Romifhprieft and a certain Mr Smith, who livedneat me at that time; crafty men indeed, Ihad already lived there until my money was a-bout gone, and my clothes were then feilingat a low rate, almolt notbrng. and in this me-ancholy fituation, nor a friend to f«ll my rou¬bles to, 1 hrd none hut Cod to appeal ‘o forred(*refs of . rievances. The wo :an of thehoufe where 1 lived fddom fpoke to me on anyfuhjed whatever ; in this torh>rn fituation,where to go or what to do I c mid not tel! :oneconfideration hill corinorted me ; I view- ted God to be my fri.md and that He woulddeliver me out of all tr uble in his own way ;and I felt willing to place my dependence onhim One day, to my great aflonilhaient,my landlady invited me to go with her on a vi-fit: Come, faid Are Mrs Hamilton, go withme to vifit Mrs. Smith to day perhaps it mayhave a tendency to (hake of this fober melan¬choly, that feems thus to hang ebout you, Iaccepted the invitation, not thinking of anyplot again!! me. Mr Smith began foon afterI went in to talk with me concerning my faithand diffenting from the * omifh church. Iafked him, if he believed the Bible; l hope fo,-laid he; Well you reccclled Sir, in Revelation! how St- John attempted to fall down and wor-I (hip the angel who faid fee thou do it not*I but worlhip God : Now if John was forbid1 worihipping the holy angel, (hail or can I fall\ down and worfhip a hnful prielt ? 'Tis Jefus| has died and fpilt his blood to pardonmy fins, and make an atoneme and nowlits as an interceffor at God’s right hand:God forbid therefoie that I fhould wor-{hip any other than the hvirig and trueGod- Upon which the domilh priefti fprang from behind the cu tain whe^e he hadI been concealed in the greareft heat of paf-I fiun imagiuable; it fo affrigh ed ne to feei a man in fuco .a rage, that 1 role up to goout oj his fight : but it dropped into mymin.: that there was now an opportuni¬ty for God to d fpiay his power, and thatif the Lord would help me 1 would nowfpeak in the vindication ot his catife I ac¬cordingly ftepped b ck • and I really believethat the Lord aflHled me in difchargingmy duty at that ti.ne ; yet noiwithftanding allthat was laid, he accofted me with roughlanguage, which it is unnec fihry here torepeat At this time Mr nnnth was fo en¬raged, I law he would turn me out of hishoufe, l therefore went out of my own ac¬cord ; and l really believe if I ever prayed t«God in my life it w is then I hadftrengtn fromGod to talk to them ; my tongue feemed tobe let loofe, and my heart was enlarged $S2traitors, robbers, thieves, and other malefactors;along with whom t wa« now obliged to take myabo;‘e The number of mv ffqueftered comoa-nions, 1 ca> not pcfiibly determine far this placewas a reoepta' le for the criminals of all the fo'ith-ern provinces, of h'ew Spain fo that its ill fatedinhabitants were very numerous.Before I had been here three weeks, I wasthrice taken out of my irkiome den, and con«ivfted by aftrong guard of foldiers to the abodeof the Prefident, by whom 1 was more pundlili-oufly examined than I had been by any of myformer judges 1 jnow related my unfortunateadventures in the moft affi fting fryle I was maf-ter of, indulging a feeble hope of obtaining myliberty: but alas! at the clofe of mv third ex¬amination, the mag'fterial Preiidert told me,that all I had fai in my defence availed very l.t-tle : I had no lawful buiinefs upon their coafts ;and there’oremuft beretommitted to the dungeonand there remain till he fhould write to the courtof C’d Spain, ar u received anfvver, to direct hisfurther proceedings goncercing me.I was now in the moft lamentable fituatiooI hid ever been in fince the commencement ofmy misfortunes Mine eye' fcarcely ever beheldanything but one common feene of awful dark-nefs ; 'ai>'5 n»y ears were feldom laluted by anything but the rattling of adamantine chains, ortitle oaths and blaiphcmies of the delpairingwretch-23wretches who were here fecured in heavy irons,and condemned either to make a fjseedy andpainful tranfuion into eternity or to foehd h^rathe remainder of4their dreary lives, without evermore beholding the chearing light of day L»kethe .other prifoners I had alfo drong manaclesupon my hands heavy irons upon my legs, andchains about my neck and wailt, and had ike-wile my feet fecured in the flocks through thenight ■, and to complete my wretcheduei's theprovifions that were given us icarcely fullainedour life—But haopily my grit vances were in aif fhort :yne redreffed ; I foon perceived the indul-;| gent Providence which had before led me. thro*t numoe lels dangers and difficulties, fesmed yetto ilretch forth a kind band towards'me.A ffiort time after my examination before the1 obdurate prefident a beautiful fema e was con¬ducted into the dungeon ; and being directed tovine, fhe with a look of fympathy and kind»cfsfdf fired to hear the particulars of my adven ures,I chearfully coispUed with the kind reputil bygiving her a detail of th moil remarkable viciffi-tudes of my checkeied fortune Ter fymp-yhetisheart feemed to be greatly aftteteu by uy formeras wd at prefent lufferirgs tihe informed me,that, having defeeuded from Engfiih parents, ffieentertained a great affection for thofe whom fheefteem d her countrymen j snd coniequently be¬ing £ .v-d wth compaffion on beholding me as Ii war carried, in my fetters, to the Governor, andhearing24A FEW LINESDeemed slpplicalle to the Fore&cinz ; Or tile Narrative,HAIL mighty 4e?vS ; how divineIs thy victorious fwo d ;The flouted rebel m u ft reiigaAt tliy commandiug vvoid.Derp are the vverunds thine arrows give ;They pierce the hardeft heart:Thy fmile- of grace the flain revive,And joy fuceeds the fmart.Still ird thy fword npon thy thigh,Uide with majellic i'way :Go forth Sweet ^rince triumphantly.And make thy foes obey.And'when thv vift mies are complete (Vhen all the ehofen raceShall round the Throne of glory meet, 'To ling thy conquering grace,O may my humble foul be foundAmong that favour’d band }May I with them thy pr.rife firth foundThroughout Immakusu’s laud.FINIS.