LIFE9TDAVID HAGGART,WHO WASExecuted at Edinburgh, 18th July, 182!,roaTHE MURDER OFTHE DUMFRIES JAILOR.CONT AIMING’he whole of his depredations and Murders, faith-jlly copied from the large Book written by him*i;lf Being the whole substance, without theuperfluity of language, brought into the fo^lpwing’ages With an Account of his Schat'iour at:be place of Execution.KILMARNOCKPr.\U’d by H. Crawford, JSouhtlln,I ^ DF SCOTLANDOFMBtLIFEOFDAVID HAGGART.T\ AVID H AGG ART was born at a fan—' town, called the Golden Acre, neiCannon_niil!s, Edinburgh, on the 24th cJune, 1800, his father was a game-keepebur afterwards a dog-trainer. He was earlput to school, when he acquired a gocknowledge of English Grammar, Writingand Arithmetic. About the age of ten,trifling accident occurred at home, whicfbj feir ot punishment from his fathedetermined him to leive home, and frothat moment he dated the cpmmencenaei|'of his sinful career. He had madewicked acquaintance as yet, but commited several depredations by himself.The first ot these was stealing a BantaCock trout a woman at the back of tl|New Town, Edinburgh Having takefancy to it, he offered to buy it, but tlwonjan would not sell it j he fell on t3scheme of putting another cock of his own,a-fighting, and then came off with hi«prize. His next was lifting a shop till froma poor woman in Stock-Bridge. Beingsome miles from town, and tired, hemounted a poney w' ^ch was grazing oathe roadside, and rede home, where hekept it for some time in an out-house,where he formerly kept a cuddle ; he keptit there for several days, until the ownerfound it out by accident. At Leith races,in 1813, he enlisted in the Norfolk Militia,jlnd learned the drum and bugle-Lorn ; theR egiment w! > disbanded about a year after¬wards, and he was discharged.),ji His lathe, war hen living in the southjkek of the Cinnongate, Edinourgdi, ande went nome, when he was pur as an ap-p'cnticfi to the Mill-wright; and Engineer¬ing b sincss, with Cockourn and Baird, inic Cmongate, where he behaved withpues’y, and was very well liked by hispiployers.|| His master having given up business, heasmf course thrown idis, and at this time.>t acquainted with many worthless char.' Jcts, among whom was one Barney, anIjshman; he had been bred a ta/lor inumfries, he was older than Haggart, of£<rt bodily strength, and a most skilfulfcp'Xket. Barne put him up to a nairir4her of tricks, and they agreed to travel to¬gether.In August 1817. when just on the pointliof going to England they past a day atliPotobelio races, and picked a gentleman’rfpocket of L.l the first ever Haggart at Itempted in da^-light; with this took outrside places cn the Jedburgh coach, ancgot themselves genteelly dressed. The*' attempted St. James’ fair at Kelso, ancjpicked L.vO. from two persons;—fromthence they went to Dumfries', and stopthree weeks; they attended Lockerb) fair fand going into a public house, a farmeand drover were ctsting out, when Barneblew the coal, and they fell a-fightiirg, anboth tumbled ; Barne\ picked the farmerpocket of L ‘23. Haggart called for thwa'.cr, and appeared in a violent passioip; id tor a bottle of porter, abused hi ,for putting them into such company, arimmediately left the house. They depaicd next morning and went to Langhotfair, where they took from a sheep farmL. (00., in ten pound notes, and LlO.,twenty shilling notes. About half an hoafter thev saw John Richardson, a Durfries Officer, running about, but he c.not notice them. I hey took a pcst-chai:and went to Annan, and next day tejthe coach for Carlisle.5On other nights they got 2 gold witch*|es; they to >k about L 70. in the whole,!during their stay in Newcastle. They theniwent to Durham, and at night broke ajlonely house on the road to York; theygot L.VO. there; they were apprehendedfor this act, tried, and found guilty, andput back to prison, to be brought up forsentence of death at the end of the ass:zes.They broke prison tint night, but Higgart| only escaped : he provided himself with a- [rope ladder*, and gave the saw to Birney,I who made Ins escape that same night.When Haggart was coming to Durham•(from York, with the saw, in companyijwith a York pick-pocket, they were pur¬sued by two constables; and just as onaIwas apprehending Iliggart, he laid himlow with his pistol.— They got clear a way,and he never knew whether the min wasSmurdered or not, but he thought so.—iThey next went to Coldstream fair, and?Barney being found attempting a farmer'spocket, got three months in Jedburgh Jai!.llaggtirt went to Newcastle again, and tothe same lodgings, where he was treatedlike a son ; little did the people know whothey were so kind to—He did numerous.1 tricks here, and then proceeded to Edin¬burgh, where he carried on the same line;he did not live in his father’s house.612 September, he started for Perth with 1tone Henry, and had some adventures.—They returned to Leith, and were taken |by the Police for some crimes, got bail, |and were liberated^Haggari had a number of adventures in !Edinburgh and neighbourhood, and was •put four months in Bridewell. After be-ing released, he rnet with some of his com-panicns, and took a trip through the north.He was in Aberdeen jail for some time,and after committing more depredations,returned to Edinburgh.They broke into several houses in Edin-burgh and Leith, and on New-Year’s morn¬ing, lb20, Haggart had for his share, five ;silver watches, and a gold one, taken onthe south and north bridges. He remain¬ed in Edinburgh till the 18th, when hewas taken up and put into the Lock-uphouse to find bail: he got out, and onenight paid a visit to the Lock-up-house,and gave the keeper so much drink, thathe got the key, and liberated six prison¬ers.He went to Leith the night following,;and took lodgings in Cupar street, andlived with a woman of the town ; whilehere he committed various acts in Leith,Edinburgh, and neighbourhood, by tyingsome shop doors, and thrusting his handI rIthrough the windows, and grasping what¬ever g(X)ds lay in his road: breaking intoinumeroua houses, picking pockets of watch-!'es, &c.—In the course of these operationsIhe removed to different lodgings.On the first of March, while sitting inShis lodgings with a picspocket of the nameiof Forrest, in Johnston street, North Leith,"Captain Ross, of the Police, and one ofhis men came in upon them ; Ross seizedForsest and carried him off, leaving Hag-ijgart in charge of the Policeman : when leftFalone, the Policeman opened a bed-roomfdoor, and was looking into it, when Hag-;gart forced him in, locked the door, andfwas making his way down the stair, whenIhe was met by Ross and another Police-iiman ; a struggle commenced, but the threeoverpowered Baggart^ and he was carriedi*o the Police Office streaming with blood,liide was kept here two days, and t lieu putinto the jail to stand trial. On the £27thplanch he got a small file, and cut thethains off his legs, penetrated through twothick walls with his handcuff's, liberatedForrest, cod got to the outside about fiveFclock next morning. When on the out¬er stair, he saw a man coming up QueenStreet, and he prepared to give him battle;mt the man only said, “ Run, Haggart,tun, I Wont touch ye.” Haggart took hold8of Forrest’s hand, and ran even on to Dal- fkeith, without stopping; staid there all 1night, and stole twelve yards blue cloth;started at two o’clock next morning forKelso, robbed a farmer of L.4., and set off!for Dumfries. They were joined by two 'other pickpockets, one of whom was hang,ed shortly after at Glasgow.In Dumfries, he picked several pockets,jand entered different dwelling-houses; he tmet with his old friend, Barney M4Guire, inever having seen him since they parteJiat Kelso in 1818. They were intending toleave Dumfries that night, but Barney wrastaken up. Haggart started for Carlisle next!morning, but was overtaken and carried :back to Dumfries. Captain Ross arrivecin a few days, and carried him back tc tLeith jail.Barnev was transported for fourteeryears. Haggart was 11 Ted at Edinburgh or :«t .the ] 2th ot July, but got off;, he was therNsent to Dumfries, to stand trial at the cir icuit there for house-breaking. His triadid not go on, and he was sent to jail.— t;Here he got acquaint with a lad, JohilbDunbar, who was under sentence of transportation. He also got acquaint with sompeople belonging to the town, who seem ied willing to do him a favour; so Haggar dmade the"plans of four keys, and a person5was to get them made for him. there beingfour doors betwixt his cell and the street,Having thus, as he thought, secured hisfibertyi he was too easily led into anotherScheme with Dunbar. Haggart thoughtfiimself certain of his own liberty, but hethought it would be a grand thing to clea-'.the jail of all the prisoners. Laurie, ano¬ther prisoner, proposed getting a stone*ijind tying it in a napkin, and some morn,ing to knock down Hunter, the head jailor,Und take the keys from him. Haggart waslot fond of using the stone, as he did notjvant to hurt the jailor; and he proposed,when Thomas Morrin came up to the mantinder sentence of death, to gag him into| closet at the head of the stair, and taker.he keys from him ; Dunbar, and someothers, got the stone and put it into aong.tnOn Tuesday the 10th of October, abouttwelve o’clock, they noticed Hunter, thelead tgrnkey leave the jail to attend the(ftaces, and snortly after, Morrin came up^ith tvo ministers, whom he locked inI he cell with M‘Grory, who was underentence of death.—Shortly after, Haggartilaced himself in the closet at the head othe stair, where he had previously put thetone and bag. Dunbar then called uplorrin t« let out the ministers. He cameup accordingly with a plate of potatoe Isoup for M‘Grory, and when he got to |the top of the stair, Haggart came outupon him from the closet, and the push¬ing Open of the door knocked the plate outof his hand j he then struck him one blowwith the stone, dashed him down, andwithout the loss of a moment, pulled thekey of the outer door from his pocket; henave only one blow with the stone andi > /threw it down. Dunbar picked it up, but *no more blows were given, so that Mor-rin must have received his other blowsin falling. Haggart observed Dunbar on 'the top of him, rifling his breast for the Ikey which he had got. Simpson had a :ihold of Mon in’s shoulders, and was beat¬ing his back upon the steps of the stair.— r-Haggart rushed past them, crossed the rstair as steadily as he could, pulled the key 1from his pocket, and opened the outerdoor.' On getting out at the door he ran round 1the east coi ner of the jail wall, and then 'walked rapidly round the back street, andround a great part-or the town, till hecame to the back of the King’s Arms Inn.Dunbar made up to him, and that very k'moment they saw a policeman coming1right up to meet them; on this theywheeled about and ran, but Dunbar was411taken before he ran ten yards, and Hag-gart had the mortification to see his fellowadventurer secured j he once thought ofbolting among them to rescue him, butthe mob was too great for him; he went; up through the yard of the King’s Arms1 without meeting any body, crossed the|i High Street, and ran down the vennel tothe Nith. He kept along the waterside: till he got away to the east of Cumlungan; wood, having run nearly ten miles in lessI than an hour, lie Ihen got on the highi road to Annan, when he saw a post-chaiseij at full gallop almost within twenty yardsI'j of him. Upon this he buttoned his coat,| and leapt a hedge into a field where some|] people were raising potatoes. They allij joined the policemen, who had got out ofj the chaise in pursuit of him ; he crossed; the field at a slapping pace, and made for| Cumlungan wood ; he bolted over a veryti deep ditch covered with briers, and ran aI few steps along the side of the hedge toI make the police-men think he was goinginto the wood; he then wheeled round,louted, and when they went up the oneside of the ditch he ran dawn the other:little did they know he was so near them,he could have breathed upon John Rich¬ardson as he passed him. lu this way hecame to the cross road which leads from12the Nith to the public road, and never dida fox double the hounds in better style.He then made lor Annan, and gettingon a mile or two on the Carlisle road, hewent into a belt ©f planting. Watchingan opportunity, he dived into a hay stack,and lay there till next day at two o’clockin the afternoon, when he heard a womanask a boy, if that lad was taken who hadbroke out of Dumfries jail; the boy an¬swered no, but the jailor died last night.On hearing this, Haggari lay insensible fora good while; he leii the stack, and see¬ing a scare crow in a field, he took someof the old clothes and put them on to dis¬guise himself. On the Wednesday nightlie slept in a hay loft; in the morning twomen were feeding their horses, and he over-hoard them sneaking about him ; he start¬ed for Carlisle, and then to Newcastle,where he stopp' d for some days, and alongwith one Fleming, picked L.2‘2 in themarke't from a man ; here he passed closeto John Richardson who was in quest ofhim. but was not noticed. He lett Neve-castle for Scotland, he got upon the Ber¬wick Coach, and then took a ticket forEdit burgh, hut only went to Dunbar inthe Coach, Tenramcd in Dunbar, ar d retoff for Edinburgh rext mrrnij g ; ihct v» itha gentleman, and took the same lodging*] 3ijith him in the Lord Buncm Tavern,nnongate. After separating from thetntleirian, he stopt at Jock’s Lodse withJfriend'} while here he visited his father,• rid some .acquaintances, disguised in \vo-jilen’s clothes. One night, dressed in hiswn clothes, taking-a walk from Portcbel-i to Leith, he met Captain Ross of theisith Police, their eye< met, and bothood motionless until Haggart feigned toull a pistol from his breast, the Captainbowing him too well before, immediatelyok to his heels, and Haggait immediatelyrued through the fieuids, and made tojljlck’s Lodge; he then crossed the Forth,Id went through Cupar to Dundee, andIsguised himself in sailor’s cbthes; hereI committed a number of depredations.|!e then returned to Newha^•en, and -vrbntp to Edinburgh, and the first thing,.hew was a bill posted up offering a reivaid" 70 guineas for his apprehension ; this.“termiaed him to go north again , he ai¬red in Dundee, and from thence went| Perth ; he attended the fairs in Perth,uiTt'ld, KerAmoi-‘, he. and robbed sameift{e-dcalers to a considerable amount,ire night in his lodgings in Perth, twodice-men came in upon him, but the de-pnined manner in which he receivedum, made tlu n hesitate in apprehend-ming, and Haggart gained dn oppcrtunitto esGjpe; he left Perth for Glasgow, anmade up his mind to go to Ireland, astarted in the Steam Boat; here he wa?recognised by the Provost of Kircaldy.who went ashore at Lamlash; Hagganwas ready to jump overboard, but theboat came off without the Provost; he rlanded in Belfast, where he attended fairs&c. and was in continual scenes of robbing. ,knocking down, &c. At Drummore market he was seized and taken before a magistrate; he was asked what name he had.he answered in high Tipperara, it wasJohn'M‘Colgan, from. Armagh i fie waicross examined, and shewn a Dublin papeiwith a description of his person, &c. litdenied being a Scotsman, and passed ofthe brogue so well that the nsnugistrate wa!in doubts; but he was ordered to be detained, and three yeomen sat in tiie court,house to guard him ; he plied them so welwith drink, that he prevailed on them tclet a young woman bring him some supperand when she came, he got leave to speafewith her privately behind the boxes at thcourt, where there is a large window; h»bolted right through the window withoubeing hurt by the fail: he crossed tinstreet, and into an entry, where he savhis keepers below the window staring am n; pach other ^ he started for Belfast and thento Dublin, and paid his passage for Air.e-:jrica at the Pigeon-house, but meeting inwith one called O’Brien, he changed hismind ; here he robbed a man of 100 gui¬neas in gold, and jaunted through theipountry in Cars, with women of bad fame;:he was taken up for robbing a drover atDownpatrick, and put into jail, where he■saw more scenes of wickedness than everrjie had witnessed all his life; the women’srgoom was immediately above the men's,md eight days provision was served out1:0 them at one time; they blocked up the£oors, made a hole betwixt the two apart-»ents, and kept possession in. the mostriotous manner; before his trial he bribedhe drover to swear he was m-t the person,nd he was banished for 7 years ; in jaile was visited by the magistrate of Dvum-ilnore, who ordered the jailor to put himIn strong irons,Haggart denied that he had ever beenin Drum more, and said his name was)’Brien, and not IVbCoi an ;dte was moved|o Kihnainhat. i jail, among other criminals';here he made his escape, but was patchedoy some of the prisoners informing theiailor of his' designs.Next morniug the whole prisoners, con-fisting of some hundreds, were taken downto a yard, and ranked up in companies of |Jtwenty each. In a few minutes John Rich- rardson nude his appearance, accompanied ’by the two jailors and a turnkey. John ebegan his inspection, and went over theirwhole of them; then making a second flook-through, he stopped at Haggart, heldjiout his hand, and said, ‘ Do you ken me,Davie?’ He turned to the jailor, and inljta masterpiece of b isli brogue, said, ‘ What itdoes the man say ?’ c Don’t you know ^him ?’ was the answer. He replied, ‘ Troth ,.and by my soul, I know nothing at ail rabout him.’ But John persisted that heknew him, and he was conveyed to the .Condemned yard; the jailor telling' him, ■.it he w'as a Scotchman he was greatly mis- ttaken, for he had the brogue as well as >ere a hoy in Ireland,—but time would try ‘all. He was nearly two cjavs in the con- ideroned yard, during which he had two -visits from John Richardson; but hestoutly denied that he had ever seen him. •On the evening of the second day Rag- ■gart was taken to the head Police-office, andheavily loaded with irons. An iron belt: iwas fitted round his waist, with his wrists,pinioned to each side of it; a chain passed, ffrom the frpnt of the belt and joined the:centre of a chain, each end or which vvasipadlocked round his ankles, and a chain.l7passed from each wrist to each ankle. Inithis dreadful state of torture and confine¬ment, he was conducted by John Richard¬son, and an Irish officer of the name ofRobison, to Dumfries. They v ere threedays and two nights upon the road, andall the time he never had his hand to hismouth, and was fed like a sucking turkey"n bedlam, and treated like a helpless in¬fant. As to the officers who conveyed him,never could man behave better to his ownBon than they both did to him. He hadKnown John Richardson befoie, and had:|fong been acquainted with his humane dis¬position, which was tried and proved onithis occasion. T hey travelled a good wayion the road before he would acknowledgethat ever he had seen John \ but he sawthat it was of no use to keep up his pre¬tended ignoranceany longer. Indeed, fromlithe time he was placed in the condemned{:dls of Kilmt inlmn, he had only done so)ut of obstmaev.On their approach towards Dumfries,viiich was in the darre, there were many(thousands of people on the road, many ofthem with torches in their hands, waitingItus arrival; and when he got to the jail-door, it was scarcely possible to get himrut of the coach for the multitude—ai!crowding for a sight of Haggart the18 ,Murderer. Some seemed sorry, anilsome terrified for him; but there was nqione of them all so sorry, or so terrified 2himself. He plunged through them, ratling his chains, and making a great sho*of courage, but. his heart was shaking 31Ifhe thought of pcoor Morrin. As he wen ^up the narrow stair to the cells, he had tpass the very spot where he struck himand, oh ! it was like fire under his feet.He was locked up in his old cell, an rthe greater part of the Irish irons wet !itaken off him. He was kept at DrumfrWIabout three weeks, during which he ws :twice examined before the Sheriff’} btthey could not get what they call a declan 1Hon out of him, for he knew that woulbe used against hint, so he thought it awell to keep his tongue within his teeth i;and this he would advise every man whis accused of a crime to do, whether he i Hinnocent or guilty. But when the exam 1nation was over, he offered to tell thwhole of his stcry to them f rival fly t anhe did tell a good deal of it.From Dumfries he was conveyed t1Edinburgh jail, and placed once more urder the charge of Captain Sibbald, tin 1kindest and the best jailor in the workH’S word may be taken for this, as he hahad some experience. He was soon afte,i9dieted to st^ind his trial before the Highi'ourt ot jHsticiary, for the murder ofifhomas Morrin., In about a fortnight, the day of hisirial came. He had been carried the even-jpg before from the Calton Jail to the^ock-up-house in the old town, and he wasliken into the Court about ten o’clock on::he morning of the l ith of June.! We shall conclude this Narrative, in hiswn words:—“ Many witnesses were ex-(mined against me, and some of them did^t speak the truth ; but I .say nothingainst them, for perhaps tl>ey were onlyistaken. I was fully as picked as theyade me. There was cne witness, whould have said that he knew of our plan,d our only object was liberty, not tourder poor Thomas Motrin. But thisould have made no difference, for it wase pice sure of God Almighty that I shouldn>e to an end.All that man could do was done for memy trial, and I had got hopes till thedge began to speak $ but then my spiritsfor his speaking was sore against me.ifl not altogether despair when 1 sawJury talking together. But, oh!—-ten they said Guilty ! my very heartoke; but I was even ihen too proud to;vv my feelings, and I almost bit my lip20through in hiding them. When the Ju !gewas passing the ^wful sentence, I turneddizzy, and gasped for breath. They say !looked careless, but they could not seewithin me. 1 did not kno,v whit hachappened, or where I was—I thought oevery thing in a minute—l thought of mfather—I thought of my mother, vvhdied of a broken heart—-I thought of es;cape, and very near made a plunge ovethe heads of the crowd—then I could havcried out. When the sentence was oveiI gathered my thoughts, and my heartwas as hard as ever; for I said, t; Wellthe man that is born to be hanged, wjnot be drowned !” i his was very wicketbut I could not help it, for 1 had no conmnnd-of my thoughts or wor is.But these wild and wicked thoughts socleft me. Every body was very kind tire. How this happens, 1 cannot tell, fc,from my infancy myhand has been again :every man, and I never saw a human bin£ without trying to do them a h irm.-This kindness is an awful lesson to itnow, but it has done my heart good, fit is the sorest punishment I have met v tyet in this world, i have been visited I hseveral clergymen. They have pray -much with me and for me. I told the1 had no words to pray, but they uug2 Jre, made me read my Bible, and gave melopes of mercy in Heaven—at least suchlopes as a poor miserable wretch like metin have, for my sins stick close to meI have no thought now but death, andi t is coming so near, that I must forgetI Ibis world, and think only of the next.—: have told all I remember of my life truly.—1 hope the tale will shew my ©id com¬rades, it they ever see it, that their wickedways will bring them to untimely ends.”EXECUTION.Early on the morning of his execution,lavid llaggar! pined earnestly in devo-itional exercise with his ministerial atten-jdant. After the Chaplain of the Jail hidl^ven a pr:}sr, one of the officers of jus.pice appeared, and requested ali the per¬sons present to retire, as he had somethingto communicate to the unhippy prisoner.Maggart immediatelv exclaimed in a hur-iried tone, i' Oh! I suppose itcis the exe¬cutioner.” His firmness for a momentlabandi ncJ him. and he walked rapidly^across the ceil, with his arms iokied, and22with dark and deep despair strongly painted on his countenance. He speedily however, regained his composure: and wheethe executioner did appear, at once allow ,cd his arms to be bound ; he was then re-moved to a hall in the lower part of th*MLock-up house, where he was received b> •two of the clergymen of Edinburgh, and ,)the magistrates. After prayer#, the pro- .cession proceeded to the scaffold. The iconduct of the unfortunate youth therewas in the highest degree becoming. While the beneficial influence of religion,was apparent in his whole demeanour, hisnatural firmness of character never for amoment forsook him ; he kneeled down,and uttered an earnest prayer.; and, after,ad d res si n - a few vords of deep and anxious,exhortation, to the great multitude oywhich he was surrounded, he met his fate [with the same intrepidity, which distin¬guished all the actions of his short, oatguilty and eventful life. .The following Lines were made by Hag- .gjri, the day after his condemnation ; out:his mind soon changed to a more serioussubject, and his whole deportment was;extremely pious.23'T ^ ■.Jsle and willing you will me tmd,%o’ bound in chains, still free in mind j|r with these things i’ll ne’er be griev’d,:tho’ of freedom I’m bereav’d.this vain world there is no rest.Id life is but a span at best je richi the poor, the old, the young,Idl all lie low before tr s long.ran a rogue, I don’t deny,';v|t never liv’d by treachery;Id to rob a poor man l disown,lit them that are of high renown.'HIw, for the crime I am condemned,o le same I never did intend,,i ily my liberty to take,fll thought my life aid lie at stake.k life, by perjury, was sworn away,Isay that to my dying day.L treacherous S , \ou did me betray,I all 1 wanted was liberty.1 malice in my heart is found,any man above the ground ;v, all good people that speak of rne,ji may say I died tor mydiberty.24Although in chains you see me fast.No froivn upon my friends you'll cast,For my relations were not to blame,And I brought my parents to grief antishame.Now, all you ramblers, in mourning go,For the Prince of Ramblers is lying low aAnd all you maidens, who love the gamtlPut on your mourning veils again.And all you powers of music chaunt.To the memory of my dying rant—A song of melancholy sing,'fill you make the very rafters ring.Farewell relations, and friends also,* The time is come that I must go ;As for foes. I have but one,But tu the same I’ve clone no wrong.F1N I S.