LOSS Ol T1IK. » f ^ ■ -iSI’EAM-SIIIPO.v II10H 1’ASSAGE FlIOAI5pi\KitPOOL 'ro or.ASfiou;- ON TOES DAY, JONH 18, is.i <. *T he Oi'ion left Liverpool on Monday after-icon at three o’clock, with 11.3 cabin, and 15teerage passengers. Everything seems to have,one right till between one and two o’clock,hen the hapless vessel struck upon a sunkenock oli Portpatriek, and.almost instantly wentown. The rock on which she struck passedirough the vessel principally in her midshipMnpai tment, breaking the engines to pieces,'he scene at that moment was of the most ap-dling description. It is said that the nightid been beautifully clear. The following nar-itive of the melancholy catastrophe was sup-;ied by one of the survivors :—“ It was'about hall-past one that I was awoke/ hearing and feeling a strange tearing sort of>ise, as if some strong paper was torn. It wasI gentle, that I thought little of it, andcyMiaincit iii Ih‘<I, altliougli ali tki‘ other jiasstH-gers in the cabin started at once to their feet,ami rushed on deck. After a very brief inter-val, one of my neighbours returned, and beganto dress. 1 then apprehended danger, andjumped out of bed, and drawing on my trouserswent on deck, calling at the ladies’ cabin inpassing, to tell my wife that she had better getup and dress, although there might not he anyimmediate danger.“ On getting to the quarter-deck, I found alarge number of the passengers assembled. 1 hevessel by this time had settled somewhat by thehead, and was lurching over a little to starboard—that is, towards the land.“My wife and I now wentn o deck, and asthe vessel was dipping deeper and deeper intothe water, 1 calmly told her that 1 feared therewas little hope, but that we would use everyeffort to save ourselves. )“ By this time the water was over the bul¬warks at the bow, and the heel cf the deck was!becoming greater and greater. I then feared |that all was over, and clasping my wife to my jbreast, we both felt resigned to our fate.“ We then proceeded, at my wife’s sugges-,tion, to the stern of the vessel at the larboardside, and as the inclination of the deck becameso great as to prevent our standing, I laid hold Iof one of the belaying pins, and placing my wife:between my breast and the bulwark, 1 held on.“ A lady at this moment got hold of my wile’sened at the- throat,,1it soon dropped off, and the unfortunate crea¬ture slid down the deck into the sea, which wasgradually creeping up over the deck as the shipsunk. On turning round, I found the wholespace within the bulwarks filled with a strug¬gling multitude in the gurgling and seethingwaters, and raos-t of these I fear were drowned.“ As soon as the water reached the compan¬ion, the pent air in the cabin forced off the sky¬lights with a most horrid crash, and in an in¬stant after we were under water. When below'the surface I lost hold of my wife, but strikingout found myself above water, and in contactwith one of the stays of the mizen-mast, whichI at once laid hold of. I had hardly done sowhen my wife rose also to the surface, and I atonce took her hand and caused her to hold on /by the same rope. I placed my legs round the trope the better to secure my hold, and told her Y’to rest herself on my knee, which she did.“ As soon as we had so far secured ourselvesthe ship gave a heavy lurch to starboard, whichimmersed us under water ; but swinging back, \she lurched heavily to port, and again were weunder water.“ I had only my head above water as I wassupporting my wife, and 1 was afraid to elevatemyself farther, as I knew that in that case thewreight would be increased. Above me, on themast, a sailor was perched, who called out inthe most imploring accents to some persons ina boat to come and take the people off.“ On the shrouds of the mizen mast, near1Nvltprp we were, tlieie were several personsf lustered, three females hanging on by one rope.At this time the eompanion cover floated off, andthree persons contrived to keep by it until theywere reseaed.“ After being about half an hour in tbc water,a shore boat came up and was about to pick moup, when I told the men to get a lady, who ap¬peared much exhausted, in first; this was done,my wife was taken in next, and, as quickly aspossible, nil supported by the mast were rescued.“ The boat then went to the mainmast andtook off the captain and another man or two,and then proceeded to the shore, where wewere met by a little girl, who said we must cometo her mammy’s house, as they had a nice fireto warm us, and would make us comfortable.“ Into one of the boats some four or five mengot, and rowed away in spite of the cries andentreaties of those on board the sinking ship.A number of gentlemen had crowded into oneof the boats, when a cry got up that the ladiesshould be allowed in first, and accordingly anumber of the gentlemen did get out and admitladies ; but the boat had not left the vessel’sside when she swamped; but after being emp¬tied of her first live freight she righted, andalthough half full of water, a nutubes of othersgot into her, and 1 believe reached land.“ Mr M‘i\eil! of Collonsay, bis wife, twodaughters, and two sons, were on hoard. 1 hesons alone escaped. The eldest daughter, al¬though alive when brought ashore, scon died.Mr Merrilces of Liverpool liad a little childabout 9 mouths old in her arms. \\ hen she wasoverpowered with the waters, she sunk and onrising to the surface her baby was dead, andfloated away out of her arms. The mother wassaved, and when she recovered herself so far as.o recollect her loss, she was bewailing her sadbereavement, when the body of the little inno¬cent was brought into the house. Mr 1'ait,baker of this city, swam on shore with his littlehoy on his back most of the way, and both weresaved. The Rev. Mr Peughe, the Episcopalclergyman of Paisley, had a little child on board,about twelve years of age, which was given incharge to the stewardess. After the alarm was, given, she proceeded to dress her little charge,and took her on deck, the poor little child ex-: claiming-, “ I know you will not leave me.”“No, no, I never will,” exclaimed the noble(woman; but, alas, heroism availed them not.I The remorseless surge claimed them as its own.”One of the most providential of the numerous(miraculous escapes which occurred was made bya lady, who, for about three-quarters of an hour,ihung on by a rope attached to the rigging tillshe was ultimately received on board one of the[boats in a state of great exhaustion. The fol-owing is the statement she makes:—Shortly brfore the vessel struck, she was on the main deck, and sheperfectly satisfied that, at the time, there was no appearance of anyipK Immediately after the rock was struck, she ran down to the cabinIjnd found the ladies leaping from their beds in a state of the greatestimsfetnation. She had, at a previous period of the evening, advisedIjiOsc with whom she had occasion to be brought into eonta'ct, not tonnclrcss on retiring, but, in the great majority of instances, her advice6had leen disregarded. However, there was evidently no time to helost, and the ladies prepared just as they were to go on deck. The cap¬tain now appeared, and entreated them to compose themselves, as therewas no occasion for alarm; hut our informant at once gave posit"assurance to the con'rary, hy declaring that she had seen the vemore so was the scene which, took place afterwards on deck. Scpersons were praying, others uttering imprecations, others screamiThe lady in question succeeded in getting into the first boat thatlaunched, but it almost immediately swaitiped. By some meansother she got hold of tlse helm of the steamer; but die had thegreadifficult, in maintaining bar position The vessel was swayed ftone: side to the other by the people rushing in a body to secure a piin the boats The i oiler she thinks now burst, but perhaps shemistaken this for she i, dse occasioned by the escape of the pent uptit rough the skjlignts. Ultimately an end was put to the painful schy the vessel gradually sinking beneath the surface, first forward, :then in the after part. However, when she again came to herself,found that she had secured hold of a rope attach d to the upper ption of the rigging, and fortunately also she obsetved a cushion floatpast her, which she seized hold of. With this she experienced no grdifficulty in supporting herself, and her usual composure returned 1some time she imagined that she would never reach the shore, buttime wore on she got rid of her fears, and latteily looked forward tcrescue with some confidence. She remained hanging hy the ropeabout three quarters of an hour, at the end of which time she ipicked up by one of the boats. She was landed in a slate of grexhaustion, hut ultimately so far recovered from the effects as toable to proceed with the Princess Royal, which arrived here on \Vnesdsy afternoon. , iThe following is a list of the passengers savas far as could be ascertained: —Mrs Spence of Liverpool, Lieut. Maurice Jones, R.N , John i\f.Jones Mr E A. Marshall, Wallingford, Berks, .Major John MaijiE. LC S., Richard Price, Master L) Darroch of Gotirock, Thon||Kidston, Mr, Mrs, and Miss Anderson, S. H. Napier, Liverpool, HjjNapii r, do, W. J Walker, J. Nichol, M. I)., Airs and Miss NicllPeter M‘Lellan, Liverpool, Mr Valegia, John Roberts, do, Dug)Cameron, Glasgow, Lawrence Partner, Montreal, Mrs Thomson ichild of Prescott, Robert Buchanan, Glasgow, Mrs Buchanan, All’s' iJ Sucker, Invernes , from America, Air Sucker, Airs Sucker, MrstAliss Bobby, Alalvern, Wnr. • nderson, Glasgow, Win Priest, Lrpool, James Holt, R.N. Mrs Williams, Liverpool, Airs Peace,John Archibald) Alloa, Geo. Lamb, de, John Brennan, J. DochdLiverpool, Air and Mrs Host, Air and Mrs Whitehead, Miss Hansettling down at the hows; and ample proof of the melancholy trwas soon afforded hy the water rapidly making its way over the cafloor. The panic which ensued it is impossible to describe; and mWhitebl'.'ul, Mis-. Janet Cul<iulintin JanileNon, Glasgow, Isabella Dtnwcan, Liverpool, James Gibbons, Glasgow, 1 bos. Devlin, Glasgow, J.T. Liennie, Aberdeen, Miss Outer, do, Jolm M'Call, Glasgow, JamesLyallj do, Alexander Lyall, do, \\ in. M‘Keuz>e, Liverpool, Wm. M.Moss, do, Kid]aid Spencer, do, Mrs John IVaree, Capt. M'Kecbnie,Greuhoek, Mrs M'Kechnie. Miss l-'artjtiharson,- I’ai ley, J. Connah,New York, L. Gladstone, Liverpool, Mrs Gladstone and family, do,T. Williams, do, J. C. M'Neill of India, A. M'Neill, do, Miss White,C. Soi ley, IVin. Bond, Glasgow, 0- Martin, Mrs Hunter, Port-Glas-gow, h. Colquhouu. J. A- Pritchard, Liverpool, P. Alston, Glasgow,P. Marra, Staffordshire, J. Biggatt, \V. GardncY, Glasgow, Mrs W.Gardner, Rev. Mr Clark, Mauenester, Jas. Walker, Glasgow, J Old¬man, Somersetslnre, Miss Woollield, Glasgow, John Tail and son, do,John Walker, Joint Mills, Liverpool, Henry Titomson, do, A. Forbes,Stirling, R. Bell, Truro, W. Kelly, Dartmouth, James Payne, do, J.Menihses. Paisley, Duncan Campbell, Glasgow, P. Ramsay, Liver¬pool, Wm. Merrilees, do, Mrs Win Mer.'ilees, do, Mr Thomson, Glas¬gow, Mrs Thomson, do, Margaret O’Brien, M. E. Nidi 11, Liverpool,Jolm Stewart, Glasgow', Mr Fleming and two nephews, do, Mr JohnCameron, do.The following are the names of those lost:—Ur Burns of Glasgow', Mr Hume, do, Mr and Mrs M Neill of Colonsay. Miss Peughe, daughter of the Rev. Mr Petighe, Paisley, the"stewardess, infant child of Mrs Merrilees, Liverpool, Mr W. March-bunk, Glasgow, Mrs and Miss Splatt, Miss Maty Ann Splast, and twosisters, Mr Bennett, Chester, Mr J.igo, Liverpool, Mr Robby, twu chil¬dren named Fraser, Mr Ross, • lasgow, A Graham, steward, JohnPearce, Liverpool, Miss Morris, niece of Dr Burns of Liverpool, Jas.Martin, Andrew Walker, ship’s carpenter, Dunn, cabin boy, MrsHurst, child and servant of Mrs Whitehead, Miss Nicol, Liverpool.During the brief but fearful and eventfulperiod between the ship going down and thedeliverance ot the survivors, many acts of hero-,ism and gal tnlry were performed. One ofwho was found by a passing swimmer fit atiugon the water, just as a boat loaded to the gun¬wale with the saved was crossing his track, liefas wc* trust tlu* ^uiiant swiiiunVr. An«»t!irastouishiug feat of heroic gallantry' was that ofa gentleman observed swimming' with a ladvunder each arm, and his own child* held in hismouth, supporting himself on a hoard, which heheld under his chin. Some less scrupulousswimmer came across him and drew away theplank which enabled him to support his head,and he was forced to let go hold of his unfortu¬nate child, which, in consequence, met a water)’grave; the ladies, however, he safely broughtto land. We have not learned this noble per¬son’s name, but it should be recorded. Anotherinstance was that of a gentleman, who, havingj^pt possession of a small piece of floating wood,when a young lady was passing, he extendedhis hand to her, and saying “ this may save usboth,” was enabled to keep himself and her uptil] they were picked off by a passing boat.We understand that a large amount of moneybelonging to passengers lies within the ironsides of the OrionDescription of some of the bodies unclaimed :An old man with grey whibkersand light grey hair; 17s 8«1 in silvergiid oim soveie'gn, weft- found on his person.An old man, with ticket ‘286; wore a pair of silver spectacles; hadon a black vest, black coat, black trousers hour with green silk tapesound the waistbands and brown over-all coat. Had a letter on himaddressed “ Vir Hubert Donaldson, care,of Mr Wm. Dickie, 1 ,'ioGrafted Street, I.umlole ’ ’ Said to belong to , 1 u iitice. While hand¬kerchief and 16s Hid found upon him.A stout gentleman, with a letter on him, addressed “ Br J. William¬son, -it George's Hospital, London Steerage passenger; had in his, .. >. a .'usi e-hox, a hair eo’hb, IS sovereigns and 10s Gd ; sandy eye¬brow-, dark whiskers, mixed.wr,h a livt’e grey; had on. brawn trousers,with right blue stockings.BROWN, PRINTER,