cheap tracts,Walculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. XlV.THEHonestdebtor:OR, “ ,The Virtuous M'an'> Struggling with, rifing fuperiorto, and overcomingMisfortune.|lC“ Alas! I am a difgraced man in my own country, and I amj'|abouring here to wipe away a ftain I have brought upon myriff-“ One' of the happieft days in my life was that on which I wastble to remit to Paris tbe firift hundred louis d’ors of xny favings.”I leave you to imagine the furprife andgratitude of Salvar^it feeing all the traces of his ruin done away, as it were, by thetroke of a pen; and with what eagernefs he came to returnhanks to his benefactor.”DUNBAR:Printed by G. Mills* at whofe Shop may be had a variety ofPamphlets, Ballads,Children’s Books, Pictures, Catechifms, See.VfBOLfiSALE AND RETAIL,^^sssasssssm^axstssassis:’HONEST DEBTOR-TO overcome adverfity and brave deathitfclf, is the effort of a noble relolution.But there is ftill a fpecies of courage whichI think lefs frequently to be met with in theworld, but not lefs admirable. I fhall givean inftance of it.* In a journey to Holland, I was recom¬mended to a rich merchant of the name ofOdelman; a man as liberal in his house,as he was avaricious in his commerce. Inhis counting-house, and at his table, I fonnti:a young Frenchman of a prepoffeffing ap¬pearance and uncommon modefty of depbrr-ment. He was known in Holland by noiother name than that of Oliver.‘In vain Odelman, who was a man of plain,manners, treated him like a friend and al-moft as an equal ; the young man, with a,certain refpe&ful dignity, always kept at a.proper diftance: you would have laid, asthat of a fon ever attentive to the will ofhis father who he was ferving for love.THEAn honest Man's the noblest Wort of God.  With Pkafure Heaven itfelffurveysA brave man Struggling with the storms of fate!C 5 ); * I endeavoured to learn what had indu¬ced him to live in Holland. He anfwered,II it was misfoEtune,’ and in every thing thati lelated to himfelf, I thought I perceived, that; e did not widi to come to an explanation.‘ In the mean time, we fpent all the tunee could fpare together; and with a com-rlaifance that my curiolity might fometimes\ atigue, but never exhaufted, he gave mec hformation relative to whatever was interef-5|ng in Holland.If ‘ You may be fure I began to conceive aliiarticular affe&ion for him. This is an en^retaining young man, faid I to Odelman,Imd l have the greateft reafon to fpeak iniiis favour. It was, doubtlefs, you that re-Tiommended him tofliew me fuch attention.’-“Not at all,” anfwered he ; but you aretl Frenchman, and he idolizes his country,fbam very glad, however, to profit by itsij»fs, for it has few more fuch to boafl of. Heli an allemblage of every eftimable quality,oilood fenfe, fidelity, indefatigable applica¬tion, expertnefs in bufinefs, an extreme;iiuicknefs and nicety of perception ; a mi-►lutenels of method which nothing can ef-:jape; and, above all, an economy—Ah !e is the man, indeed, that knows the valuef money.’4 The laft article of his eulogium was noco my tafte ; and, in his excufe, I obferved,hat it was allowable in the unfortunate to( 4 )be avaricious.’—‘ Avaricious! he is not fo,*replied rhe Dutchman ; he is not felicitousfor riches. Never, I am well aflured, didbe defire the wealth of another ; he is onlycareful of his own. But in the managementof it he exhibits fuch an ingenious and re¬fined frugality, that the Dutch themfelvesareaftonilhed at it.’—But what moft furprifesme is, the fecrecy with wh ich he conceals, evenfrom me, the ule he makes of his money.’‘ Before my departure, I became betteracquainted with this uncommon and virtu¬ous young man.‘ My dear countryman,’ said I, the dayI was taking my leave of him, ‘ I amgoing back to Paris. Shall I be so un¬fortunate as to be of no service to you there?I have given you the pleasure of obligingme as much and as often as you pleased ;do not refufe me an opportunity of return¬ing the obligation.’—* No fir,’ faid he * you(hall have it; and in exchange for the littlefervices which you are pleafed to over rate,I will come this evening, and requefl onefrom you, which is of the moft materialconfequence to me. I muft obferve, thatit is a fecret which I am going to communi¬cate to you ; but I can be under no appre-henfions on that account. Your name alonejiis a fufficient guarantee.’ I promifed tcljkeep it faithfully ; and, that very eveningjhe called upon me, with a cafket full of gold- iin his hand.( 5 )11 ‘Here,’ faid he, ‘are five hundred loui?i i’ors, arifing from three years iavings, 'ind; 1 paper figned by my hand that will indi-i ate the ufe to which I wifii them to be put.i t was figned Oliver Salvary. How great(ijvas. my furprife to find it was deftined for: nothing but obje&s of luxury ! A thouland:rowns to a jeweller ; a thoufand to a cabi¬net-maker ; a hundred louis for millinery ;is much for laces, and the reft to a perfum^|pr.‘I furprife you,’ faid he; ‘Yet you donot fee all. I have already paid, thank hea-wen, three hundred louis for the like foole-Jiries; and I have much yet to pay before e-nvcry thing wilf be difcharged. Muft I tell; it you, fir ? Alas! I am a difgraced man in;rmy own country, and I am labouringIfhere to wipe away a ftain I have broughttjjupon my name. In the mean while, I mayI die ; and die infolvent. I wifii to makec you a witnefs of my good intentions, and thei efforts I am making to repair my misfortuneshand my fliame. What I am going to relateoto you may be confidcred as my teftament,f which I requeft you to receive, that, in cafe1 of my death, you may take the neceffarypains to reftore my character.’ ‘You willlive long enough,’ faid I ; ‘ you will havetime to efface the remembrance of the mif-fertunes of your youth. But, if, in orderto make you eafy, you want nothing but afaithful witnefs of your fentiments and con-( 6 )dud, I am better informed on that fubjedthan you imagine, and you may with all1confidence lay open your heart to me.*‘ I begin then,’ faid he, finding, ‘by con-feffing, that my misfortunes are entirely ow¬ing to myfelf, and that • my errors are with¬out excufe. My profeffion was one of thofe:that required the ftrideft probity ; and thefirft law ol that probity is, to difpofe of no-thinp- that is not our own. I made calcu-Olations; but thofe calculations were errone¬ous. My imprudence was not the lefs cri¬minal. But 1 will tell you how I was invol¬ved in it.‘ A reputable family, an unfullied reput¬ation, the efieem ot the public, tranfimttedfrom my anceftors to their children; myyouth ; fome fuccefs in which 1 had b|primuch favoured by circumftances ; all feem-ed to promife that I fhould make a rapidfortune by my profeflion. This was thevery rock on which I Iplir.‘ Monf. d’Amene, a man of fortune, andwho confidered my profpeds as infallible,ventured to build his daughter’s happinefsupon thefe delufive hopes. He offered meber hand ; and as foon as we were acquain¬ted, we formed a mutual attachment.—Sheis no more : Were fhe {till living and Iwere again to choofe a wife, (he alone fhouldbe the objcdt of my choice. Yes, my dear- ieft Adrienne, I would chofe thee from a-imong a thoufand. Others might have more( 7 )beauty : but who can ever equal thy worth,thy tendernefs, thy charming temper, thygood fenfe and thy amiable candour ?’4 In this addrei’s, his eyes, raifed to hea¬ven, as if looking for her ipirit, were fuifli->lfed with tears. <£ Impute not,,, he contin-ijtied, ‘‘impute not to her any thing that Ii have done. The innocent caufe of my mif-Srjfortune, (lie never even fufpedted it. Andin the midft of the illufions with which fhewas furrounded, fhe was far from perceivingthe abyls to which I was leading her overa path ftrewed with flowers ■ Enamoured ofher before I married her, more enamouredafter pofleflion, I thought I could never doenough to make her happy ; and comparedto my ardent love for her, her timed teuder-nefs, and her fenfibility, which were temper¬ed by modefty, had an appearance of coldnefs.To make my felt beloved as much as I lovedher—Shall I declare it?—I wanted to in¬toxicate her with happinefs. Good heavens!what paffion ought not a man to indulgewith diftruft, if it be dangerous, to devotehimfelf too much to the defire of pleafinghis wife.‘An elegant houfe, expenuve furniture,what ever falhion and tafte could procure iiithe article otdrefs, to flatter in young mindsthe propenfities of felf-love, by affordingnew fplendour or new attraftions to beauty ;all this anticipated my wife’s defires, andpoured in upon her, as it were, fpontaneouf-( 8 )ly. A feledt fociety, formed by her owinclination, fliewed her the moft flatterinattentions, and nothing that could rendhome agreeable was ever wanting. [‘My wife was too young to confider ;|necefi'ary to regulate and reduce my epences. Ah! had ihe known how muchrilked to pleafe her, with what refolutio:would (lie not have oppofed it ? But as (hbrought me a handfome fortune, it w;natural for her to conclude, that I was allin affluent circumftances. She imagineat lead, that my iituation in life allowed mto put my eftablilhment upon a gentefooting. She perceived nothing in it thajwas unfuitable to my profeffion; and, oi|confulting her female friend^, nil this wahighly proper, all this was no more then de\cent. Alas ! I fiid fo too, and Adriennalone, in her modeft and fweetly ingenuou:!manner, afked me if I conceived it neceflaryto incur (uch expences to render myfelf amiable in her eyes. “I cannot be infenfible,’1laid (he, “to the pains you take to renderme happy; but 1 fhould be fo without allthat. You love me, and that is enough toiexcite the envy of thefe young women.What latisfadlion can you find in increafingit, by wifhing me to eclipfe them ? Leavethem their advantages, which I (hall notenvy. Let the frivolity of tafte : let whimand vain luperfluity be their delight. Loveand happinefs lhall be mine.”( 9 >*Her delicacy, though it gave her newi charms, did not alter my condud.; and Ianfwered, that it was on my own accountthat I complied with cuftom ; that what ap¬peared as luxury to her, was nothing but alittle more elegance than ordinary; thatJ good tafte was never expenfive, and thatwhatever I might do, I fliould never tranf-greCs the bounds of propriety. I deceivedher. I deceived myfelf; or, rather, I ba-nifhed all refledion. I was fenfible that Ei was living beyond my prefent income ; but;j in a Ihort time the emoluments of my pro-j feffion would make good the deficiency ;i;| and, in the mean while, every one approvedI of my affectionate care to make my wife| happy. Could I do lefs for her ? Could I;i even do enough ? This was the publicvoice. At leaft it was the language of our|! friends. My father-in-law looked with con-,]( cern upon thefe anticipated expences, uponf) this emulation of luxury, which ruins, faidI he, the greateft fortunes. He expreffed hisdifapprobation of it with fome degree ofJ feverity. I calmly anfwered, that this em¬ulation fhould never lead me into any in-difcretion, and he might lafely depend uponmy prudence. I have fince learnt what animprefiion this manner of refpe&fully eva-i ding his advice, made upon his mind, andi what bitter refentm#nt it produced.‘The moment of my becoming a fatherdrew nigh; but this moment, which promif-litJL .. '( 10 )ed to be the happieft I had ever experienced,proved to be the moft fatal. It deprivedme both of the mother and the child. Thisftroke plunged me into an abyfs of forrow.I will not tell you how heart-breaking itwas. None but thole who experience fuckforrows can imagine what they"are.‘ I was Hill in the height of my affli&ion,when my wife’s father lent his notary withthe information, accompanied with a fewwords of flight condolence, that the writingswere drawn up to transfer back into hishands the fortune* 1 had received from him*Indignant at this indecent precipitation, 1anfwered, that 1 was quite prepared; andthe next day the fortune was returned. Butthe jewels that 1 had given his daughter,and the, other articles of value for her ownparticular ufe, became alfo his property.He had a legal right to them. 1 reprefent-«d the inhumanity of requiring me, aftereighteen months marriage, to fubmit to foievere a law ; but he infilled upon his rightwith all the impatience of a greedy claimant.I lubmitted; and this fevere exaftion madelome noife in the world. Then did theenvy my happinefs had excited, haften topunifh me for my fhort-lived felicity, and,ainder the difguife of pity, to^k great careto divulge my ruin, which it feemed to de-* Bv the laws of France on the death of the Motherand ifue, her fortune reverts bach to her family.( II )pi ore. My friends were lefs zealii'’1'13^0 ^ vc?ithan were my enemies to injurffft2*. ^oeyjagreed that 1 had been too qucbt ,n bafleto live away* They were srsght, butthey were fo too late. It ,was at my enter¬tainments that they fbould have made fuch.obfervations. But you,' ^ who know theiworld, know, with what: indulgence fp'Cnd-thrifts are treated untill t;he/period of tfceiriruin. Mine was now made public, and m}rijcreditors, being alarmed, came in crowds tol my.houfe. 1 was determined not to deceivethem, and, making them acquainted with;| my fituation, 1 offered them all that 1 had!i left, and only required them to give mej| time to difcharge the red. Some were acI commodating; but others, alledgmg the weal»':i thy circumftances of my father-in-law, obit ferved, that he was the pcrfon who ought tohave given me indulgence, and that in.feizing the fpoils of h/s daughter, it was.their property he had plundered. In a word,1 was reduced to the neceflity of efcapingfiom their purfuits by fuicide, or of beingfhut up in a prifon.‘This night, fir, which 1 pafTed in theagonies of (hame and defpair, with death onone hand, and ruin on the other, ought toferve as an eternal leflbn and example. Anhonefl and inoffenfive man, whofe onlycrime was his dependence upon flight hopes;this man, hitherto efteemcd and honoured,n an eaty and furc way to fortune, all on af 12 )iudden branded with infamv, condemnedileither to cdaiii to live, or to live in difgracejjin exile, or iti prifon ; difcountenanced byhis father-indaw, abandoned by his friends,.TiO longer daring to appear abroad, and de-firous of finding fome folitary and inaccef-fible retreat that could conceal him frompurfuit. It was in the midft of thefe horri~|ble reflexions, that 1 paffed the longed: olnights. Ah ! the remembrance of it fullmakes me fhudder ! and neither my headnor my heart have yet recovered the fhockiI felt at this dreadful reverfe of fortune. Atlafl, this long confliX having overcome myfpirits, my exhaufted flrength funk into acalm ftill more dreadful. 1 confidered thedepth of the abyfs into which 1 had fallen ;and 1 began to conceive the cool relolutionof putting an end to my exiftence.‘ Let me weigh,’ faid 1, ‘ my. laft deter¬mination. If 1 fubmit to be dragged to prifon,1 muft perilh there difgraced, without re-'fource and without hope. It is doubtlefs athoufand times better to get rid of an infup-portable life, and to throw myfelf upon the |mercy of God, who will perhaps pardon mej>for not being able to furvive misfortune jcombined with difhonour. My piftols werejlcocked, they lay on the table, and as 1 fixedmy eyes upon them, nothing appeared tome at this moment more eafy than to put anend to' every thing. But, ah ! how manyvillains have done the fame ! How manyC 13 )worthlefs minds have jioffeffed famedefperate courage ! And what can wa(haway the blood in which 1 am going toimbrue my hands! Will my infamy be theIds infcribed upon my tomb, if, indeed 1 amallowed a tomb ? And wilt my name, ftigma-litized by the laws, be buried with me ? Butllwhat am 1 faying ? Wretch that lam! 1 amt; thinking of the fliame, but who is to expiateI the guilt ? 1 want to fteal out of the world;ibut when 1 (hall ceafe to exift, who willmake reftitution to thofe 1 have injured ?i1'Who will afk forgivenefs for k young mad-■,Eman, the fquandcrer of wealth that was notsihis own ? Ah, let me die, if 1 can no longerphope to regain that efteem which 1 have loft!!But is it not poffiblc, at my age, with labourciand time, to repair the errors of my youth,hand to obtain pardon for my misfortune ?IThen refleding upon the refources that werelileft me, if 1 had the fortitude to contendbwith my ill fate, 1 fancied 1 faw at a diftancemhiv honour emerging from behind the cloudsiihat had obfcured it. 1 fancied 1 faw a plankfilplaced at my feet to lave me from (hipwreck,ifiand that 1 beheld a friendly port at handc.ready to receive me. 1 retired into Holland;: but before 1 let off, 1 wrote to my creditors,informed them that having given up all 1had left in the world, 1 was ftill going todevote my whole life to labour for their be¬nefit ; and entreated them to have patience.C H )CI landed at Amfterdam. Qn my arrival,1 imy firft care was ro enquire who among thewealthy merchants of that city, was the manof the greateft charafter for honour and pro¬bity ; and all agreeing in naming Odelman, •1 repaired to him.‘Sir,’ laid 1, ‘a ftranger perfecuted bymisfortune flies to you for refuge, and to iafk you whether he muft fink under itsweight, or whether by dint of refolution andlabour, he may be able to overcome it ? 1have no one to patronize or be anfwerablefor me. 1 hope in time, however, to be myown fecurity ; and in the mean while, 1entreat you to employ a man. that has beeneducated with care, is not deftitute of know¬ledge, and is of a willing difpofition. Odel¬man, after having liftened to, and furveyedme with attention, alked who had recom¬mended him to me ? “The public opinion,”faid 1. “On my arrival, 1 enquired for the ||wifed; and bell man among the citizens of |Amflerdam, and you were unanimoufly ILnamed.”‘He appeared much (truck with a certainexpreffion of fpiritednefs and franknefs inmy language and countenance, which mif-fortune imparts to relolute minds, and which: Inature feems to have made the dignity ofjtithe unfortunate. He was difcreet in hiskqueftions, and I was fincere, but referved in imy anfwers. In a word, without betraying Imyfelf, 1 faid enough to remove his diftruft; IC )fi nd prepoffefled with a fentiment of edeerr: a my favour, he confcmed to put me to ai!lrial, but without any fixed engagement,de foon perceived that there was not in hisi ounting-houfe a man of more affiduity, nori nore emulous of gaining information.* Oliver/ faid he, (for that was the onlyi ame i had taken) ‘you have kept your word..30 on, I fee you will fuit me; we are form-d for each other. There is one quarter ofour firft year’s falary. I hope, and I fore-e, that it will go on in a progreffive in-cafe.’‘Ah ! fir, I, who had never in my lifenown the value of money, with what joylid I fee myfcdf mafter of the hundred ducatsl e had prcfented me with ? With what caredid I lay by the greater part of this fum ?3tVdth what ardour did 1 devote myfelf totat induftry of which it was the fruits !nd with what impatience did 1 wait foric other three quarters of my ialary thatHere to increafe this treafure ?‘ One of the happiefl days in my life wasfiat on which 1 was able to remit to Paris1 he firfl hundred louis d’ors of my favings.t When the receipt came back, 1 kifled theaper a hundred times, and bedewed itith my tears. 1 laid it upon my heart,d felt it like a balm applied to my wounds.‘ Three years together 1 procured the fameI ratification. This gratification is noweightened ; for my perquifites being aug-( i6 )mented and joined to fome gams, which lhave acquired by cemmercc, double the a-mount of my favings. If this remittancehas been tardy, 1 beg, fir, you will notice,that the delay has been occafioncd by thedeath of the only trufty correfpondent 1 hadat Paris, and henceforth, 1 hope, you willbe fo good as to fupply his place. Alas l1 may yet labour fifteen years before 1 candifeharge all, but 1 am only five and thirty.At fifty 1 fhall be free ; the wound in myheart will be healed. A multitude of voiceswill proclaim my integrity ; and 1 fhall beable to return to my country with an un-blulhing countenance. Ah ! fir, how fweetand confolatory is the idea, that the efteemof my fellow citizens will be reftored tograce my old age, and to crown my greyhairs.IHe had hardly finifhed fpeaking,’ whendelighted at this exemplary probity, “ 1 em¬braced him, and afiured him, that 1 neverhad met with a more excellent man than,himfelf. This mark of my efteem affe&edhim deeply, and he told me, with tears inhis eyes, that he fhould never forget the con-folarion that accompanied my farewell.”‘ When 1 arrived at Paris. 1 made his;payments. His creditors were defirous ofiknowing where he was, what he was doingand what were his refources. Without ex¬plaining myfelf in that refped, 1 imprefledithem with the fame good opinion of his in-1( i7 )liegrity as I entertained myfelf, and difmir"ifed them all well latisfied.|| i Being one day at dinner with monfieursNervin, my notary, one of his guefls, oa; hearing me fpeak of my journey, into Hol-r tand, alked me, with fome degree of ill hu-i>moar and contempt, whether 1 had never(oappened to meet with one Oliver Salvary!n that country. As it was eafy to recog-jthize in his looks a fentiment of malevolence,I ftood on my guard, and anfwered, i( thatny tour into Holland having been a merearty of pleafure, 1 had not had leilure to ac-une information relpefting the Frenchhat 1 might have leen there; but that throughny connedtions, it would be very poflibleo get fome account of the perlon he hadamed.”—“ No,” faid he “it is not worthhile. He has given me too much vexa-ion already. He has poffibly died of wantr fhame, as it was but fit he Ihould. Heould have done much better ftill, if he hadled before he married my daughter, androught himfelf to ruin. After that.” con-inued he, “depend upon the fine prornileshich a young man makes you.—In eighteenonths, fifty thoufand crowns in deoi; and,o complete the whole, exile, and difgrace!”“Ah ! fir,” faid he to the notary, “ wnenou marry your daughter, be upon your,uard. An ihfolvcnt and chtgraced lon-in-vtyaw is but a lorry piece of furniture.”( IS )‘Monfieur Nervin afced him how it hadhappened, that fo prudent a man as he hacnor forefeen and prevented thefe misfortunes.^— “ 1 did forelee them,” replied d’Amendt( and prevented them as far as 1 could ; foithe very day after my daughter’s death,took my meafures, and, thank heaven, :have had the confolation of recovering he;'portion and personal property ; but that iall 1 was able to save from the wreck, andleft nothing but the fhattered remains fo,jthe reft of the creditors.”‘ It was with great difficulty that 1 coulcontain myself; but perceiving, after hiwas gone, the impreffion he had made upofthe minds of the notary and his daughterI could not refrain from vindicating the honourable abfent man; but without meritioning his retreat. “You have been hearing,” laid I, “this unmerciful father-in-lawfpeak of his fon with the moft cruel contemptWell, every thing he has faid about him itrue ; and it is not lefs true, that this uikfortunate man is innocence and probity itfelf.’This exordium feemed very.ftrahge to them'it rivetted their attention, and the fathe. Sidaughter remaining filent, I related wha.!you have heard.4 Nervin is one of thofe uncommon cha-rafters, that are difficult to be comprehended. Never was there a cooler head orwarmer heart. It was a volcano beneath ;heap of fnow. His daughter, on the conC 19 )tary, was a girl of a tender and placid dif-ofition, equally partaking of the ardour ofer father’s foul, and of the fedatenefs of rea-)n. She is handfome. You have ieen her;ut fhe is fo little vain of her beauty, thatjhe hears it fpoken of without blufhing, orjmbarraflfnenr, as (lie would the beauty ofAnother. <c We may be proud,” faid (he,of what we have acquired ourfelves ; andiaodefty is neceflary to conceal fuch pride,r to keep it witjiin due bounds But wherethe merit, or the glory in having one’syes or mouth made in fuch and fuch aman-er ? And why, fhould we think ourfelvesbliged to bluth at the praife of what theaprice of nature has conferred upon us,lldthout any merit of our own ? This Tingleijrait may give you an idea of the difpofitionrIf Jultina; which though more ftrongly cha-rafterized and determined than that of Ad-*nennet exhibited the fame candour and ther, tme charms.‘ This cflimable girl paid as much atten-ri ion to my words as her father, and at eachli rait that marked the integrity of Salvary,1 ds ftrong fenfibility, his firmnefs under mif-11 xrtune, 1 perceived them look at each other,find thrill with that fweet delight which vir-ic ever excites in the breads of all her vo-laries. But the father became imperceptib-y more thoughtful, and the daughter moreffc&ed.<20 >‘When I came to thefe words in which Oli-Iver had addrefled me : “Ah! fir, how fweetiand confolatory is the idea that the efteemjof my fellow citizens will be reflored to gracemy old age, and crown my grey hairs.”—1faw Nervin lift np his head, his eyes all fuf-fufed with tears : “ No, virtuous man,” heexclaimed, in the-effufion of his generofity, [“you (hall not wait the tedious decline oS:life, in order to be free and honoured a;you deferve. Sir,” added he to me, “youare in the right, there is not a nobler manin the world. As to the common and ftrait-forward duties of life, £ny one may fulfi;them; but to preferve this'refolution and'probity, while hanging over the precipicesof misfortune and lhame, without once lofi-ing fight of them for a moment ! this is rare 1indeed ! this is what I call pofifeffing a well-11tempered mind. He will commit no more:follies. I will be anfwcrable for it. Heiwill be kind, but he will be prudent; heknows too well what weaknefs and impru¬dence have cofl: him, & with d’Amene’s goodleave, that is the man I Ihould like for a (onin law—And you, daughter, what thinkyou of it fir !” anlwered Juftina.“ 1 confefs that fuch would be the hufbandI (hould choofe.” “You (hall have him,’1,faid her father: “ Write to him to come to:' Paris; tell him that a good match awaitshim here, and tell him nothing more.”( 21 )- ■‘1 wrote; he anfwered, that fituated as■he was, h^ was condemned to celibacy andfohtnde; (hat he would involve neither awife nor children in his misfortune; norwould he fet foot in his own country,^untilthere Ihould be no one there before whomhe fhould be afhamed to appear. This an-fwer proved a farther incitement to the im¬patience of the notary. “ afk him,” laidhe, “to give in a fpecific account of, hisdebts; and inform him, that a perfon who in-: terefts himfelf in his welfare will undertakelithe care of adjufting every thing.”‘ Salvary consented to intrufl me with theftate of his debts, but as to the accommod¬ation of them, he replied, he would hear ofno fuch thing; that any reduction of hiscreditors claims would be unjuft; that iti was his intention to difeharge them fully,and to the lafl livre; and all that he requiredat their hands was time. “ Time, time,”fays the notary, “ 1 have none to fpare him.My daughter will grow old before he payshis debts. Leave this lift of them with me.1 know how to a<ft for an honorable man.Every body fhall be fatisfied.” Two daysafter he came to me. “ All is settled,” laidhe. “ Look, here are his bills, with re¬ceipts to them. Send them to him, and givehim the choice of being no longer in debtto any one by marrying my daughter, or ofhaving me for his foie creditor, if he refufes( 22 )to accept me for a’father-in-law; for thi;does not bind him to any thing.”‘ 1 leave you to imagine the furprife ancgratitude of Salvary at feeing all the tracesof his ruin done away, as it were by theftroke of a pen ; and with what eagernefshe came to return thanks to his benefador,He was, neverthelefs, detained in Holland#longer then he wifhed, and the impetuousNervin began to complain, that this manwas tardy and very hard to be worked upon.At laft, he arrived at my houfe, not yet dar¬ing to perfuade himfelf but that his happi-nefs was only a dream. I introduced himfoon to his generous benefadlor, with a mindimpreffed with two fentiments equally grate¬ful, deeply fenfible of the father’s goodnefs,and every day ftill more captivated with thecharms of the daughter ; for finding in herall he had fo much loved and fo much re¬gretted in Adrienne, his mind was, as itwere, ravifhed with gratitude and love. Hewas no longer able, he faid, to decide whichwas the more ineftimable gift of heaven ; afriend like Nervin, or a wife like Juftina.‘One regret, however, that he could notconceal, ftill hung about his mind. “Pardonme,” faid he one day, when Nervin re¬proached him for having rather put his pa¬tience to the teft : “ pardon me, fir, 1 wasimpatient to throw myfelf at your feet, butbeftde the accounts 1 had to make up, 1 have ihad in leaving Holland, more than one con-C 23 )::!id to undergo. The worthy Odelman,jny refuge, my firft benefaftor, had depen-bed upon me for the eafe and comfort 01tis old age. He is. a widower; has nohildren ; and without declaring it, he had1 Iready adopted me in hrs heart. When we•;rere obliged to part; when, in revealinghim my paft misfortunes, 1 told him by;,i'hat a prodigy of goodnefs 1 had been re-iored to honour, he bitterly complained ofItiy referve, and alked me if 1 thought 1 hadI better friend in the world than Odelman.lie preffed me to confent to his acquittingjie obligation 1 owed you. He requefted|i with tears, and 1 quickly began to feel my*j|lf no longer able to refill his entreaties.!|ut when he read the letter in which Mr.sjw atelet had made the eulogium of the amia-jje Judina, and in which he had given alill more enchanting portrait of her mindtlban of her perlon—Ah !” faid that goodman to me, “ 1 have n© daughter to offerjlou ; and if this pifture be a faithful one, it■rill be a difficult matter to find her equal.l| will detain you no longer. Go, be happy' -think of me, and do not ceafe to love me.”‘ Nervin, as he lidened to this narrative,as wrapt in thoughtful attention. “ No,’*lid he, fuddenly breaking filence, “ 1 willot tlefire you to be ungrateful, nor will 1;i iffer a Dutchman to boad that he is moreenerous than 1. You have no profeffionere, and you are not formed to lead an in-( 24 )dolent life. . It would be a. very great fatis-fadtion for me, as you muft imagine, to havemy children about me : but let that bleflingbe referved for my old age ; and as mybufinefs here affords me fufficient occupa¬tion to keep away ennui, write to the worthyOdelman, and tell him, that 1 give you upto him together with my daughter, for hah'a fcore years; after which you will return, Ahope, with a little,colony of children ; and iyou and 1, in the mean while, (hall havebeen labouring for their welfare.”4 The Dutchman, overjoyed, returned foianfwer, that his houfe, his arms, his heart,were all open to receive the new-marriecipair. He expedts them ; they are going tcfet off/and Oliver will henceforth be in part'nerfhip with him. This is an inftance of ;fpecies of courage that many unfortunatepeople are in want of, that of never forfeiting their own efteem, and that of never delpairing fo long as confcious of their own integrity.F INIS.Printed by C Milter,D:iubat.