FOUR EXCELLENTNEW SONGSTHEwee wifukie,Roving Journeyman.LOVELY MOLLY,The Bclfaft Mountains.'Edinbu. gh. —Printed by J. Morren,( * )V U? tV EE WI F UKI £,Hr1 HERF was a wee bit wifukie,and fhe gaed till a fair,She got a wee bit drapukie,th&t cofl her ineikle care ,It gaed about the wifie‘s heart,an’ (he was like to fpew,An O! quo* the wee bit wifukie,I wilh l be nae fu*.Chos. I wilh I be nae fu*, quoth flic.I wifh I be nae fu’;0 quo’ the wee witukieI wifh I be nac fa’.If Johnny fee me barley fick,1 doubt he’ll claw my fkin,I’ll tak a wee bit napuckie,before that I go in :Sac lyin’ down at a dyke-fidetakin’ a wee bit nap;By came a paukie packman,vri’ a wee bit pack. wi*, See,He clippet a’ the wifie’s locks.that gowden were and lang lHe took her pouch and pudukie,and faff away he ran ;The wifie wakened in a fright,her head was light’s a flee,An’ O ! quo* tire wiee wifukie-lure this is no me, lure this, &c.When I was bonny WeflukiCjtny locks they were like gewd,1 look’d like ony laffukic,whene’er that they were cow’d ;An’ Johnny was ay; telling me,I was right fair tb fe4 ;Eut fomebody’s been fellin’ me,for this is no me. For Ahis, &C,I met with kindly companie,Ibirl d my baubee ;If I be bonny Beflukie,three placks remain wi me. ’She put her hand down by her fide,to fin’ gin it wa« Ihe,But neither pouch nor plack fhe had,nor yet a baubee. fo this* 8rc*1 hae a wee bit houfukie,an* in’t a kindly man ;A doggie they ca‘ Doffukic,if it be me he‘ll fawn ;An‘ a‘ the bairns about the boufciwill ken if this be me,But iomebody‘8fbeen felling me,for this is no me. for this, &&The night was eauld and dingin wet,.an4 wow but it was mirk.The little doggie heard a foot.an1 it began to bark :An4 when the doggie barked,fhe kcud it was nac fhc ?C 4 )O weel kens my Butfuirie .that thi ; ik no mc^ that this. &c.When Jjimuy heard his Beflit’s footfait to the 4oor he ranCryin‘ come awa jayit s no me go^dman ylie kindly to the bah ns V, - . \an weel may you be;Fare ye weel, johnny lad,for this is no me. for this, &c.yrt. a 4John ran to the Minifter,his hair k flood o-a end ;I hae gotten fic a hjglit, fir»I fear I’ll never mend 4My wife came hame wkhottf a head*cryxn4 out moft bitterly.Fare ye weel, my Johnny lad,for this is no me. for this, &c,j*rbe tale you mil feems wontbroas flraagefee ms worid'rous ft range to ate.To think a wife Withous- a hsad ,could either fpeak-otlfee t iuZTie things Hhat Lapps* bersawaV miare wonderful to me;could aiaaift trb Btflie fey,’tis neither you noe ihe, *riSv lrc?When Johnny he ciime hame again,his heart was unco iahl,To fee his b*rmy Bcffukiecome to herfeli again ;Sit tin* on a ilcoUkin,an1 Tibbock on her knee :Cry'm4 come awa, my Johnny lad,for thi- is now me ;1‘ve got a wee bit napukie,an^ this is now me.Then Johnny took 'her in his arms,his heart was unco ctlad.To fee hi3 bonny Beffukie,now a right but tfce head.Although you’ve loft your gowden locks,your pouch and purfukie,Come to your bed my Beffukie,and happy we (hall be. and, fee,THE ROVING JOURN&T,T Am a roving jturneytrmD,l rore ftoin town to town-I But when 1 meet a job of workI m willing to litMy wa.let hangs ovf#r mt ftiouldsra fnia.ll c&ne in my hand,; AnU I a'l.ociteMkri to Derry,like a Ror.ng jouintymstn*But when f come tm Do ry,the girls the’y'jump’d with jay, ", The v.ne ky* II the ot?-ejthere coibcb the /porting boy, j( 6 5They invited me to drrnk with themand took me b? the band,The teaft gade merniy aronndfucccfi to rhe .journeymac.I «ras not Ton in Oeriy,a day but barely one,Till I had took a notion,to £0 to fweet Strabace.jI i oifted up my fail* boys,I wm« along the fltawd.Until 1 came t( that.view tana?*that lay by fweci $u*banoI was not loner in fwe< t Strabanc,a Day bti; only rflitc,'iill I fell in with an airy dame,w ith htr ( did agree;She invited me n to dine with her,and took me by the hand.She wbiipercd to her mammy,Jhe ieved a journeyman.No magic arts I ever nfs’d,to any woman kind,Which makes me go s roving,and leave my love behind.I wonder what* the realon,makes my Jove court fo fity,I'm lui c i ufc the cordial,Which make* fair maids comply,My pean ing bone and fhuttleI will lay down a thtow.Unknown to friends and parents^a roving I will goAnd every town that ' pme to,I will find a aew iweethehrt*i ? (And girl* yc.5 may believe me,I will leave you a blading heart*LOVELY MOLLY*Iwiil gather floes, fhe and 1.we v-on’r be gathering Hoes,But wc‘il be m'xing toc*^down in yon valley fo green.I’ll be pulling heather, fire and I,we won’t be pt’liinj heather,But we’ll be tanning leatherdown in yon valley fo greenI’ll be gathering eggs, (he and I,we won’t be gathering eggs,But we‘l| be mixing legs, the and I,down in yon vally fo green.We’U be gathering bones, fhe and I,we’ll not be gatliei ing bones,But we will be laying Hones,down m yon valley 16 £re«n.1 will fee gathering hips, (be and I,we w.jn’t be gathering hips,But we’li be kilH ;g tips,down in yon valley fo green,Wc’il be winding yarn, (lie and I,we won’t be windiiig yarn,But we‘ll l>e getting bairns,down in yon valley to green.W« will drink and be merry,anti drown tnelenchdlly,What a lovely Moily was Ike*( 8 )BFLFAST MOCJV V \INS0j'J’vVASon Bcifaft moantains,1 heard a maid complain,Making a lamentationDown by a purling ftreaca.She faid I am confinedAll in bands of love.Ah, by a fail* prerender.That does inconftant prove.O Johnny, my dear jrwel,Dont treat me w’th dildain.K»r leave me here behind you.In furrow to compl inWl h her arms (he c lasp’d around him,Like the violets roa id the vine.This bonny Irifh IrMdieIdas dole this heart of mine.Had i but all the diamonds.That on the rocks do gre w,I‘d give them to the Irifh laddieII his love to me be would (hew,Wringing her hands and oymgO fohnny dear iarewel,Atd ;o you Be haft mountains.My for row I will tell. .’Tis nor momitaihs.Can give me re ief.Nor is it in tiieir power,To eale me cf gvkfHad i but a ttogue to'prattle,Or tch kin» a love tale.To my ^ onny irilh laudie.My mind i would reveal, F I N I ^