THEFAMOUS HISTORYOF THE.\LearnedFriar Bacon.iGIVINGA particular ACCOUNT of his Birth,| and Parentage, with the many Wonderfulj Things he did in his Life-time, to the-GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,fNO. l8.] SALTMARKKT,1807.( 2 )THE FAMOUSHISTORYLEARNED FRIAR BACON.Friar Bacon's Birth and Parentage, and b)what means he came to be Jo great a Scho¬lar- How the King fent for him from Ox¬ford, and in what wonderfid Manner hipleafed the Kings five Senfes: Alfa thtcomical Pranks he play'd with a Courtierfent to fetch him.H E famous Friar Bacon (whofe namehas fpread through all the world) wasborn in Lancalhire; his Father’s name wasRalph Bacon, and his name Roger. Fromhis infancy he was obferved to have a pro¬found pregnant wit; as he grew up, a'grealreader of books, and defirous of learning,which to admiration he took fo fall, thathis fchool-mafter could teach him no fur¬ther; and being about to fend him houuwith commendations to his father, he fear¬ing the worli, humbly befought him to pre-o F T H ECHAP. I.The famous Hijlory of the, &c. ?vail, if poflible, with his father, that hemight be fent to the univerfity, where hehad a deiire to go to learn the liberal fci-ences.His fchool-mafter denied him not his re-jqueft, but went home with him, and tak¬ing the old man afide, told him, he hadlearned his fon as far as he was able, thathe took it in extremely well, and was wiil-ing to improve it at the univerfity; andthat he was verily perfuaded, by the prompt-nefs he perceived in him, if he would be atB little charge with him there, he would beJo great a proficient, as would advance him.jto an eminent ftation.Ihe old man heard this with fome in¬dignation, but conceal’d his anger til! thechool-mafier was gone; and then takinglis fon to tafk, faid, “ How now, firrah !dave I not been at colt enough already,out are you itching to put me to rrmre, ?Methinks I’ve given you fuch learning A toimable you, in time, to be a Conftable oritiihurch-warden of the parifh, and far out-vlo thpfe in the odice, that can neither readjior write; let that fuffice: As for the reft•f your bufinefs for the future, it is to learnttiorfe-language, and whillie well, that youmay be dextrous in driving the plough andiait, and managing the (beep and oxen jor firrah ! continued he. Have 1 any bodydfe to leave my farm to but you, and yetion take upon you, forfooth, to be a fchc-4 ¥1)6 famous Hijlory oflard, and confequently a gentleman; forthey all profefs themfelves fo, though neverib be^pirly, living lazily, and eating up thefat of other men’s labours. Marry-gaup!Goodman Two-fhoes, your great-grandfa¬ther, your grandfather, and I, have thoughtit no fcorn to dig and delve; and praywhat better are you-than us ? Here, firrah!Take this whip, and go with me to plough,or I’ll fo lace your fine fcholardlhip, thatyou had better this had never been men¬tioned to me.Young Bacon was much difpleafed, andhighly grieved, but durft not reply, know¬ing his father to be a very hafty, choleric"old man; however, this fort of living folittle agreed with his fprightly genious, that "in a Ihort time he gave him the flip; andgoing to a monaftery, and making his defires11known to the fuperior, he kindly entertain-4ed him, and made him a brother of thejAuguftin friars. There he profited fo muchjl:that in a few years he was fent to Oxford,pto ftudy at their charge; where he fooiigrew fuch a proficient, that his fame footi'pread, not only in the univerftty, but alfcover all England, and came to the ears oKing Edward the Third, who then reigned 1And he taking a progrefs with his Queeipand nobles, was defirous to fee him, am'have an experiment of his art; fo that being at a nobleman’s hoirfe, within four mildlt:of the city of Oxford, he fent a gentlema:the Learned Friar Bacon.'of his bed-chamber, to defife him to comc-■to him. The Knight delayed not the niei-.ifage ; and finding him at his itudy, did hisicrrand. The Friar told him he would bewith his Majedy, and bid him make hafte,;or he ihould be there before him. At this■he fmiled, being well mounted, faying,Scholars and travellers might lye by Au¬thority.” Well, faid Fiiar Bacon, to con¬vince you, i will not only be there beforeyou, ride as fad as you can, but l will thereihew you the cook-maid you lay with lad,tho’ fhe is now bufy dreffing the dinner atiSir William Bolton’s an hundred miles dif-tancc from this place. Well, faid the gentle-iman of the bed-chambdr, “ I doubt nor but,one will be as true as t’other;” fo mounting,rode laughing away, and thinking to be atthe Kingrs quarters in a Ihort fpace, he fpur-red his horfe violently: But fuddenly a millarofe, that he knew not which way to go;jand milling the way, he turned down a byelane, and rode over hedge and ditch, back¬wards and forwards, till the charm was dif-folved.When the Friar came into the King’s pre¬fence, he did him obeifance, and was kind¬ly welcomed by him. Then faid the King,Worthy Bacon, having heard much ot yourfame, the caufe of my fending for you, Xvasto be a fpeftator of fome fine curiofities injyour art. The Friar exculed at firft; but; the King preffing it, promifed on his royal6 The famous Hiftory ofword, no harm ftiould come to him, he'hid ail keep filence, and waving his magic- .wand, there preiently, to their great amaze¬ment eufued the moft melodious mufic theyhad ever heard, which continued very ra-vilking for near half an hour. Then wavinghis wand, another kind of mufic was heard,and prefently. dancers in antic fhapes, at amafquerade, entered the room; and havingdanced incomparably well, they vaniHied.Waving his wand the third time, loudermuftc was heard; and whilft that played, atable was placed by an invifible hand, rich¬ly fpread with all the dainties that could bethought of: Then he defired the King andQueen to draw' their feats near, and partakeof the repaid he had prepared for theirHighnelfes; which, after they had done, allvanifned. He waved the fourth time, andthereupon the place was perfumed with allthe fweets of Arabia, or that the wholeworld could produce. Then waving thefifth time, there came in Ruffians. Persians,and Polanders, drefled in the finefl foft fur,filks, and downs of rare fowls, that are tobe found in the univerfe, which he bid themfee!; and then the (hangers having dancedafter their own country falhion, vanilhed.In this fort Friar Bacon pleafed their fivefenfes, to their admiration and high fatisfac-tion ; fo that the King offered him money,but he refufcd it, faying. He could not takeit; However, the King preiTed on him a*the Learned Friar Bacon. 7jewel of great value, commanding him towear it as a mark of his favour. Whilftthis was doing, the gentleman of the bed¬chamber came in puffing and ^blowing, allbemired and dirty, and his face and bandsfcratched with the bulhes and briars. TheKing at this fight, demanded why he (laidfo long? and how he came in that condi¬tion? O plague, faid he, take Friar Bacon,and all his devils! they have led me a finedance, to the endangering, of my neck.—But is the dog here!-—Hil be revenged onhim!—Then he laid his hand on his fword,but Bacon waving his war.d, charmed it inhis fcabbard, (fo he could not draw it out)faying, I fear not your anger; his belt foryou to be quiet, left a worfe thing befalyou: Then he told the King how he gavehim the lye, when he told him he would bethere before him.'Whilft he was thus fpeaking, in came thecook-maid, brought by a fpirit, at the win¬dow, with a fpit and a roafted fhoulder ofmutton on it, being thus furprized, as (bewas taking it from the fire ; and wifhfullyflaring about her, and fpying the gentle¬man, fhe cry’d, O my fweet Knight, areyou here! Pray, Sir, remember you pro-rmfed to provide linen and other necefiariesfor me; our ftolen pleafures have fwelled,and I’ve two months to reckon: And here-upon flic ran towards him, to embrace him;but he turning afide, Ihe was carried outS The famous Hijlory ofat another window to her mafter’s houfegain.This was the caufe of both atnazeftierand laughter, though the gentleman \v*much afltamed and confounded to be threxpofed, ftill muttering revenge ; but FriaBacon told him, his beft way was to put uwith it all, fince he had verified both h:promifes, and bid him have a care how h;gave a fcholar the lye again.The hing and C^ueen well pleafed witthe entertainment, highly commending h|art, and promifing him their favour anproteftion, took their leave of the Friareturning to London, and he to his ftudat Brazen-Nofe-College.C H A *. II.Row Friar Bacon put a comical trick upon bman Miles*, who pretending abjh nance onfajl-dayt concealed viduals in his pocketeat tn a corner.\ 9FRIAR Bacon kept a man to wait chim, who, though but a fimple fellovyet a merry droll, and full of waggeries; hname was Miles; and tho* his mafter an|thofe of the order often faffed on fet dayMiles loved his gut? too well to pinch theiand though outwardly he fecmed to faft f<compliance* he always kept a private1ths Learned Friar Bacon. 9erfe to eat ia a corner, which Bacon knew»y art, and refolved to put a trick uponiiirn. It fo happened on Good-Friday in..ent, a drift fad was held, and Mileseemed very devout; for when his mader)id him, however, ta^e a bit of bread, andl fip of wine, early in the morning to keepdm from fainting, he refufed it, faying, hevas a great Sinner and therefore ought toio more than this for his mortification, andto gain abfolution, making a great manypretences of fanftity, and how well he was(inclined to keep the holy fad. ’ Fis well,faid the Friar, if I catch you not tripping ;hereupon Miles went to his cell, pretendingito pray but indeed to eat a fine pudding(lie had concealed; which-he had no foonerput into his mouth at one end, but it duck(there: He could neither eat it, nor get itlout. The ufe of his hands failed, and hejwas taken with a fhivering all over, to thatthinking he fhould have died prefently heleried piteoufly out for help: whereupon.Friar Bacon, calling the fcholars together,went in to fee what was the matter-, andperceiving him in that plight, faid fmiling.Now I fee what a penitent fervant I have,who was to confcientious he would nottouch a bit of bread, but would willinglyhave devoured two pounds of pudding tohave broke his fad. He piteoufiy entreat¬ed him to diflolve the charm, and deliverhim, and he would never do fo again.l o The famous Hifiory ofNay, faid the Friar, you fhall do penaflcefor this; fo taking hold of the end of thepudding, he led him out to the fcholars,faying, fee, here’s a queafy ftomached fel¬low that would not touch a bit of bread to¬day ! When they faw him in this plight,they all fell heartily a laughing; but FriarBacon, not fo contented, led him to theCollege-gate, and by enchantment fixed theend of the pudding to the bar, he was madefo fall to it as if it had been by a cable-rope,and on his back'were placed thefe lines.This is Friar Bacon’s man who vow’d to fail;But, diflembling, thus it took at laft :The pudding more religion had than he;Tho’ he would eat it, it will not down you fee.Then of hypocrify pray all beware.Left like difgrace be each diffembler’s fhare.Miles all the while was jeered and fport-ed with by all fcholars and town’s people,but after fome houts penance; his mafterdilfolved the charm, and releafed him ; andhe ever after kept the fafts, not fo muchout of religion, as for fear that a w'orfetrick fhould be put upon him.ike Learned Friar Bacon, £ £CHAP. in.}icw Friar Bacon faved a Gentleman vjuqhad fold hitnfef to the Devil for money > andfat a trick upon the old deceiver of man¬kind, 1WHEN Friar Bacon flourifhed at Ox¬ford, a young gentleman, by hisprodigality, having run out his eftate, andinvolved himfelf in debt,*, grew exceedingpenfive and melancholy, purpofing to makehimfelf away, in order to put an end to hisimiferies, and the fcorns that were daily putupon him by his former companions, beingalfo utterly call olF by his friends; fo walk-I mg by a v/ood-fide, full of forrow, he met,i as he thought, an old man in good cloth-| ing, who faluted him, and demanded the; caufe of his melancholy, and why he walk-I ed fo folitary. At firft he refufed to tell: him as thinking he could do him no .good;I but the other urging if, prnmifed to afiidhim if he wanted any thing : he laid, I amin want. *1 want fine clothes as l ufed tohave; I want money to buy food, pay debts,i redeem my mortgaged land, and manyi things more: can you help me to enough; to do it? I can, faid the old man, on one’ condition, what’s that? faid the gentle¬man : if it be any thing tolerable I (hall notrefufe it; for I cannot be welt woH’e, or ingreater hardlhip than 1 am now. Why, faid12 The famous Hi/lory ofthe other, the matter is not fo much; ygfliall only oblige yourfelf, when I have funilhed you with money to do all you hanamed, and you have paid every one ycowe a farthing to, to., become obedient tirre, and be difpofed of at my pleafurNow the young man taking him for an Liurer, and very rich, fuppofed this oblig;tion was only a fetch to marry his daugl:ter, or fome kinfwoman of his, which hcould be well contented to do, not doubing to have a good portion, and thereforfcrupled not to do as he ,defired Upothis he bid him meet him the next morniniabout the-farne time, when he would havthe writing ready; and on figning he fhouHhave the money. So they parted ; and thgentleman delayed not coming, withoiHiking advice, and was as pundually metbut when he faw the writing in blood, hwas flartled a little; but the old man tolhim, it was only a whim of his own to havit fo written to diflinguilh it from othqmen’s, and put his debtors more in minto repay the money he lent them. Upo (this fpeech, and the gentleman’s feein iftore of gold and filver brought by three c <four of whom he fuppofed to be fervantsfDhe believed it. But how, .faid he, (hall Uwrite with the fame? O, faid he, let me fee)]I’ll prick your right vein; which he diedwhilft the gentleman found an unufustitrembling, and an inward remorfe in hill!the Learned Friar Bacon. 13mind: however, taking the bloody pen inhis hand he defperately fubfcribed and feal-ed the writing. Then telling the moneyinto a cloak-bag, he laid it on his horfe,and they, with much ceremony, took leaveof each other. The gentleman laughed inhis fleeve to think how he would find himout, feeing he had not aiked, nor himfelftold him, where he lived,t Soon after he fummoned all his creditors,paid them to a farthing, redeemed his land,went gallant, and recovered his elleem ini the world : but one evening as he was look¬ing over his writings in his clofet, he heardfomebody rap at the door; when openingit, he faw the party he had borrowed themoney off, with the writing in bis hand,who told him, he was now come to demandhim, and he muft now go along with him ;for, to his knowledge, he had paid his1 debts and done whatever was agreed to.The gentleman, wondering how he fhouldknow this fo foon, denied it. Nay, repliedhe fiercely, deny it not, for I’ll not becheated of my bargain: and thereupon! changed into a horrible Ihape, ftruck himalmoft dead with fear; for now he perceiv-■ ed it was the Devil. Then he told him, ifhe did not meet on the morrow in the fameplace he had lent him the money, he wouldcome the next day, and tear him to pieces;and, fays he, if I prove not what I fay, youi| fhall be quiet. And fo vanilhed out of the14 The famous Hi/lory ofwindow in a flafh of flame, with horriblebellowings. The gtntleman, feeing himfelfin this cafe, began to weep bitterly, andand wifhed he had been contented in hisfad condition, rather than have taken fucha defperate way to enrich himfelf} and wasalmoft at his wits-end.Friar Bacon, knowing by his art whathad paid came to comfort him ; and havingheard the whole dory, bid him not defpair,but pray, and repent of his fins, and bewould contrive to {hew the Devil a trickthat Ihould releafe him from his obligation.This greatly comforted the gentleman, andhe promifed to do whatever the Friar fhouldorder him. Then, fays he, meet at thetime appointed, and 1 will be near to offerto put the decifion of the controverfy to thenext that comes by, and that (hall be my-felf; and I will find a way infallibly to giveit on your fide. Accordingly he met, andthe Devil confented to put it to arbitration.Then Friar Bacon appearing, Lo, faid thegentleman, here’s a proper judge: thislearned Friar {hall determine it: and if itgoes againft me you have free liberty to dowith me as you pleafe. Content, faid theDevil. Then each of them told their dory,and the writing was produced, with all theacquittances he had taken; for the Devil,contrary to his knowledge, had ftolen themand the other writings belonging to his E-Jdate, out of his clofet. The Friar, weigh-the Learned Friar Bacon. 15ing well the matter, afked the gentleman,whether he had paid the Devil any of themoney he borrowed of him. No, repliedhe, not one farthing. Why then, faid he,Mr. Devil, his debts are not difcharged;yon are his principal creditor, and accord¬ing to this writing, can lay no claim to himtill every one of his debts are difcharged.How! how! replied the Devil, am I out¬witted then ? O, Friar, thou art a craftyknave! and thereupon vanifhed in a flame,raifing a mighty temped: of thunder, light¬ning and rain: fo that they were wet thro’before they could get (helter. Then Baconcharged him, he fhould never pay the Devila farthing of his debt, whatever fhape hecame in, or artifice he ufed to wheedle himout of it, and then he could have no powerover him. The gentleman on this, livinga temperate frugal life, grew very rich, andleaving no children at his death bequeathedhis efiate to Brazen-^ofe-College, becaufeFriar Bacon, a member of it, had deliveredhim from fo great a danger of body andfoul.C H A P. IV.How Friar Bacon framed a Brazen Head,which by Hnchantment was to [peak : bythat means all England had been walled16 The famous Hiflory of•with hrafs, if the folly of his man Miles,who was fet to watch the Head, had notdifappointed it, not timely calling his ma/lc'rto anfwsr it ; for which he was Jlruckdumb many days.FRIAR Bacon being now a profoundproficient in the art of Magic, andmany other fciences, contrived, with oneFriar Bungey, who was his pupil, to dofomething memorable for the good of hiscountry, and many things they caft in theirnfinds: at lad: they remembered that Eng¬land had often been harraffed and invadedby the Romans, Saxons,Danes, Normans,andother nations at fundry times, to the greateftufion of blood, and often alteration ofthe conftitution of governments; and if anythijig might be contrived to prevent the likefor the future, they fhould thereby raife alading monument to their names.Bacon upon this concluded to frame ahead of brafs; and if, by their art, theycould caufe it to fpeak, and anfwer theirdemands, they required, that all the fea-girt fhores of England and Wales fhould bewalled with brafs, and brazen towers beraifed on the frontiers of Scotland, to hind¬er the incurfions and rovings of the hardyScots.They laboured to do this by art, butcould not; fo they conjured up a fpirit, toenquire of the infernal council, whether itthe Learned Friar Bacon. 17I might be done, or not. 1 he fpirit how-i ever was unwilling to anfwer till Friar Ba-i con threatened with his charms to bind himin chains in the Red-Sea, or to a burningrock, and make him thefport.of wreckingwhirlwinds.Terrified by this means, he faid, of him-; felf he could give no anfwer, but mult en-{ quire of his lord Lucifer. They, granted| him two days for an anfwer, accordinglyhe returned this. “ If they for tw o monthswould carefully watch the head, it ihouldin that time fpeak, but the certain timefhould not be known to them ; and then ifthey did hear it, and made fome demands,what they required fhould be anfwered. *At this they much rejoiced, and watch¬ed by turns very carefully for fix weeks,and no voice was uttered: At length tiredout, and broken for want of their naturalreft, they concluded fome other might watchas well as they, till they refrefhed them-felves in repofe, and call them when thehead began to fpeak, which would be timeenough; and becaufe this was a fecret, theydid not care for having it known till theyfaw what they could make of k. Baconthereupon propofed his man Miles, andBungey approved of it; fo they called Miles,told him the nature of the brazen head andwhat was intended, by giving him a flrid:charge, on his life, to awake them as foonas ever he heard it fpeak.i8 • The famous Hifiory ofFor that, matter, faid he, let me alone;I warrant you I’ll do your bufmefs efte&u-ally, never fear it. So he got him a longfword by his fide and a tabor or pipe toplay, and keep him awake if any drowttnefs,or the like, fhould overtake him.The charge ^being given, and he thusaccoutered, the two Friars went to reft inthe next apartment. Miles then began topipe and fmg foxigs of his fweetheam andfrolics.Betty that is fo frolic and gay.Like a cat flie loves with her tail to play;1 hough fometimes ttie’il pant and frown,All’s well if you lay her down.She’ll never fay nay, but fport and play;O Betty to me is the Queen of the May :For Margery the is peevifn and proud ;Come fullers then, and fcrape the crowd.Whilll his merriment patted, after ahoarfe noife, like thunder almolt fpent, thehead ipoke dittin&ly, Time is. Oho! fay$Miles, is this all the news you can tell me ?well coppcr-nole, has my matter taken allthis pains about you, and you can Ipeak nowifer ? doft thou think Lam fuch a fool tobreak his fweet Hum for this ? no, fpeakwitter, or he fhall fleep on. i ime is, quotha!whv I know time is, and that thou fhalthear, goodman kettle jaws.the Learned Friar Bacon. 19Time is for fome to gain,1 ime is for fome to lofeTime is for lome to hand.But then they cannot choofe.Time is to go a fcore,l ime is when one ftiould pay;Time is to reckon too,But few care for that clay.Time is to graft the horn.Upon another’s head;.Time is to make maid’s bellies fweif;Oh then ’tis time they’re wed.Heareft thou this goodman copper-nofe?we fcholars know when time is, withoutthy babbling: we know when time is todr^tk good lack, eat well, kifs our hohef-fes, and run on the fcore. But when timeis to pay them, is indeed but feldom.Wliilll: thus he merrily difcourfed, abouthalf an hour alter, the fame noife began asbefore and the head faid. Time was. Well,faid Miles, this blockilh head is the foohlh-e!t thing my wile maker ever troubled him-felf about. How would he have laughed,had he been here, to hear it prat fo fnnelyltherefore thou brazen faced ais, fpeak wiier,or I (hall ne’er trouble my head to awakehim, time was, quotha ! thou afs thou! Iknow that, and io thou fhalt hear; for Ifind my mailer has watched and tutoredthee to a fine purpofe.20The famous Hi/iory ofTime was when thou, a kettle,Was wont to hold good matter jBut Friar Bacon did thee Ipoil,When he thy Tides did batter.Time was when conscience dweltWith men of each vocation ;Time was when lawyers did not thriveSo well by men's vexations*Time was when charityWas not deny’d a being rTime was when office kept no knaves ‘yThat time was worth the feeing.Ay, ay, and time was for many otherthings: But what of that, goodman brazen-face ? I fee my mafter has placed me hereon a very foolifh account: I think I’dgood go to fleep too, as to Hay watchinghere to no purpofe* Whillt he thus (coffedand taunted, the head fpoke a third time,and faid, Time is paft ; and fo, with a hor¬rible noife, fell down and broke to pieces:whereupon enfued lamentable ffirieks andcries, dallies of fire, and a rattling as ofthunder, which awaking the two Friars,they came running in, in great diforder,found Miles rolling on the floor, in a (link¬ing pickle, aimoft dead with fear, and thehead lying (battered about the room in athoufand pieces. Then having brought himto his fcnfes again, they demanded how thiscame. Nay, the Devil knows better thanthe Learned Friar Bacon. 21,[, faiii Miles: I believe he was in this plaguyiihead; for when it fell, it gave a bounceHike a cannon. Wretch that thou art! faidBacon, trifle not with my impatience! didftIthou hear it fpeak? varlet! anfwer to that.Why truly, faid Miles, it did fpeak; butivery fxmply, confidering you have been fo.long a tutoring it; I proteft I could have! taught a jackdaw to have fpoke better inI two days. It faid, Time is. Oh-, villain !fays Bacon, hadft thou called me then, allEngland had been wailed with brafs, to myimmortal fame. Then, continued Miles,about half an hour after, it faid, Time was.Oh, wretch ! how my anger burns againfl:thee; had you but called me then, it mighthave done what I defired. Then, faid he,it faid. Time is pall, and fo fell down withthe horrible noife that waked you, and mademe, I’m fure, befoul my breeches; andfmce here’s fo much to do about time*Ithink it’s time for me to retire and cleanmyfelf. Well, villain! fays Bacon, thouhall loft all our cbft and pains by thy fool-ilh negligence. Why, faid Miles, I thoughtit would not have ftoppe-d when it once be¬gan, but would have gone on and told mefome pleafant ftory, or have commandedme to have called you, and I (houlu havedone it; but I fee the Devil is a cunningfophifter, and all Hell would not allow himtinkers and brafs enough to dp the work,and therefore has put this trick upon us to22 Remarkable Anecdotes.get off from his p’-omife. How, flavej faid !the Friar, art thou at baffoonry, now thouhaft done me this great injury? firrah ! be-caufe you think the head Ipake not enoughto induce you to call us, thou (halt fpeaklefs in two months fpace, and with that,by enchantment, he ftruck him dumb tothe end of that time, and would have doneworfe, had not Bungey had compaflion onthe fellow’s fimplicity, and perfuaded himfrom it.And thus ends the hiftory of that famousFriar Bacon, v/ho had done a deed whichwould have made his fame ring through allages yet to come, had it not been for thefimplicity of his man Miles.REMARKABLE ANECDOTES.THERE is a remarkable ftory relatedof Sir Chriftopher Wren, who beingchofen furveyor of the royal works to KingCharles II. foon after his reftoration, andbeing called upon to prepare a plan for thereparation only of St. Paul’s cathedral,which he was afterwards employed to re¬build ; before he would ralhly venture toexpofe his judgement upon paper in a mat¬ter of fuch importance, in which the greatMr. Inigo Jones had been engaged beforehim, thought it prudent to take a furvey ofRemarkable Anecdotes. 2 3the works of the belt mailers abroad, andaccordingly, obtained his Maiefty’s leave totravel for a few months. While he was atParis, he was taken ill with a feveriih dif-order, made but little water, and had apain in his reins; he fent for a phyficianwho advifed him to be blooded, and order¬ed him fome proper medicines for a pleu¬ritic fever, with which the phyfician thoughthim dangerouily attacked; but having anaverfion to bleeding, he put off that opera¬tion for a day longer, and in the nightdreaming that he was in a place where palm-trees grew, and that a woman in a romantichabit reached him dates; though he foundhimfelf much worfe in the morning, yet hefent for dates; and eating plentifully of them,from the very moment they entered his fto-mach he thought himfelf better, and with¬out any other medicine fpeediiy recovered.ANOTHER (lory of this kind, I (hallbeg leave to relate. In March, 1746, ayoung woman at Briftol being taken ill ofthe fmall pox, her mother attended herduring her illnefs; her father was a clergy¬man, more than twenty miles from the city.One night, her filler, who was at her fa¬ther’s, being in bed, heard the voice of hermother lamenting the death of her daugh¬ter. This much furprifed her, knowing24 Remarkabk Anecdotes.that her mother r/as then as far off as Briffltol. When fhe arofe in the morning, heifather feeing her look much concernedafked her what was the matter with her \(he replyed, I believe my fifter Molly isdead; for this night 1 heard the voice oimy mother lamenting her death. Says thcjlfather, I heard the fame myfelf, and heivoice feemed to me to be in my ftudySoon after, the fame morning, came a mef-fenger with tidings of her death. The de->ceafed was brought to her. father’s to beburied, and after the funeral, her mothetrelating the manner of her daughter’s illnefs.and that as foon as her daughter was dead,fhe being weary with watching, and tiredfor want of Heep, lay down in her clothes,and dreamed that Ihe was with them tellingher grief for the lofs of her daughter. Thisfurprized them ; and afking the time, it ap¬peared to be much the fame in which theyjheard her voice.FINIS..'—MilanGLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSONTNo. iB.] Saltmarket,1807.