TRUE AND GENUINEACCOUNT OFMURDOCH CURRIE,fTAKEN FROM HIS OWN MOUTH,At the place of Execution in Shorthand being aPIOUS EXHORTATIONTo people of all ranks to take Warning by hisUNTIMELY END.He was Executed at DumbartonON THE14th day of June, 1754.PRINTED THIS YEAR.T/.iuviZo am. iusit -'----o.'ul la 7£u dj>f.fl/.sv suit atiTyjsnDECLARATION or EXHORTATIONOPMURDOCH CURRIELate servant with Stonefield of Levenside,Being sentenced to Death for theBreaking of his master’s house.He was brought from the prison of Dumbar¬ton, about two o’clock, surrounded with a strongguard of armed men, he walked wdth more cour¬age than ever any man was seen to do in his con¬dition, until he came to the place of punishment.He first sung the 23rd jPsalm’from beginning toend, and after prayer was ended he addressedhimself to the spectators in the following manner :—You all came here to-day to look on me a poorsinful boy, my time has been short indeed in thisu'orld. Alas ! it has been short, and spent in fobly and madness: and now you look all upon mycase as desperate, and this my untimely end to bewithout honor. But I bless the great God thatcreated me, that it is my lot to die here this day.and that I did not die when going on in my sinfulcourse of wickedness, as many have done, andhave not got so much as three minutes warning,before they were hurried into eternity. And nowfor a heart, O for an heart to bless the Lord foithe time I have got since I received the sentena4*£ death, O Lord reward my benefactors in thisplace for the charitable acts towards my soul andmy body, during my imprisonment; O God for¬give my enemies, this I heartily wish for, as Ihope for mercy at thy hand through the meritsof thy Dear Son Jesus Christ, on whom thou artwell pleased ; O be well pleased with my soul forhis sake, for I have no righteousness but his, Ihave no trust but in him ; and now if I perish letit be at the feet of my Redeemer wheie never oneperished ; O that sweet passage of God’s word.Though he slay me, yet will 1 trust in him, I seemy sins mere greivous in mine own eyes, and Iam heartily sorry for they are many, I abhor myself for my wickedness, for my ignorance and re¬vengefulness of my proud haughty heart whichcaused me to return the second time to do wrongto my master, who always did justice to me whichI own I did not do to him. All the reflection Ihave against any, is that some person publishedthat 1 carried false keys, which I solemnly declare1 never did, the Lord forgive them for the false¬hoods which they told concerning me. I own Ihave been a thief in taking away some triflingthings ; and what I did in breaking into the houseof my master was to be revenged of the affrontthey put upon me in this place, 1 being whippedby the hangman. I warn all men and womennever to give way to revenge, but rather apply toGod who knows all things ; for Revenge is minesaith the Lord, and I will repay it again. It'isthe folly and madness of many, and me also, whenthey have done so, and come to sutler; for whenthey are asked why they did so, they will answer5the devil bade them: O! but this is a poor ex¬cuse ; but in my opinion it is their own wickedheart which is in them, it is the devil’s nature,but not himself ill as he is. O ! sirs never thinki of revenge, O good God bless Stonefield, hisI family, servants, tenants, and his relations, and1 this is what I never thought of saying before yes-l terday morning : now I can forgive all my ene-i mies, and look upon them as my best friends. I! will not be angry with the rod. I know that Godjj is the Smfter, whom he loves he corrects and chas-I tens. O ever blessed be his holy name, that hasI brought me unto this, and he will give me strength| to bear it. And now unto you who are Gentle-I men’s servants, I advise you to leave off all youra sinful practices, that almost all of you pride your-5 self in, cursing, su’earing, whoring, and all man-1 ner of wickedness. O how heinous does that sin| of taking God’s name in vain, appear unto meI this day, The Lord will not hold him guiltless,that taketh his name in vain, and now if the Lordmark iniquity who can stand ; I know I had nomore than original sin, it was enough to condemnme; but the Lord has promised to cure my ig¬norance, and all my actual sins of ignorance, forsuppose I read and heard I did not believe. And( now O God strengthen thou my belief more andmore: and as for many of you who are Gentle¬men you keep no rule in your families, you giveyour servants no instruction^jn a goodly manner,ye consider not that the cliafge of their sotHs areupon your heads while they are in your service,and the charge of the stranger while he is withinyour gates; you ought also to make them remem-6her the Sabbath. But alas! few of yourselvesregard it. And it is my adviee to all servantswhatever station you are in rather break your ser¬vice than break the Lord’s day ; O it is a wound¬ing sin for the conscience of a dying man ; if youwere to look death in the face as I now do, you !would find it so. What would I do if their was inot a promise left for such as in my condition totfly to. Yet I can say O Death where is thy sting J0 Grave where is thy Victory: I have no hopebut in God’s word; I have no trust but in JesusChrist. For righteousness of my own I havenothing but sin and iniquity ; I have enough todamn me eternally If the precious blood of Je¬sus Christ prevented not; Glory to God in thehighest. There is a fountain in the house ofDavid for the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin andfor iniquity, and I hope to be washed from allfilthiness of the flesh and spirit. And now sincetime and eternity fa come, I have little more to doj;but die.What I have said to one I have said to all; Ihave nothing to say either to Judge nor Jury, the^Lord forgive them, if they have done wrong ; but;they could not do more than what God has de-:creed. Therefore let no reflection be upon themi|t,concerning me. Where could I run from theipresence of an all-seeing God, for Judge, Jury,)Executioner, and all that surround me this day:(are but instruments in his Almighty hand let him),do what he will. I will look fcr mercy and he faa God of mercy, and he gives liberally to themthat ask him. And again I desire not to die, til j1 see that man who catched me in the street o,;7Dumbarton this day eight-days, when I thoughtto have made my escape from dying on the tree.He being called for came in through the crowd,being in great fear and perplexity, but he mo^tlovingly took him by the hand, and said Robert,do not be troubled for your taking hold of mefor the Lord sent you there as a trap to hold me,I forgive you from the bottom of my heart, and! I hope that the Lord will never impute it to you,II his providence brought,you in my way. But try11 to get a sure hold of Christ, and keep him as fastI as you did me in the Vennel Street of Dumbartoni and in taking leave of him he kissed him threel times, with so mild a countenance that the most; of the spectators wept and mourned j and turningi round to the multitude, he desired that none ofl them would upbraid that man for what he had; done, for I from my heart forgive him, and all: those that act his part in the least, they were buthelping me on in my journey; therefore I look(j on them as friends and not enemies. As for thea keeper of the prison, I heard that he is looked on'll as unfaithful to his trust, because he was in prison(when I broke out. I desired him to read a cer¬tain portion of scripture out of a book, his back<was to me while looking on, because of the ad-vantage of the light of the window ; and then I(broke off unknown to him ; therefore he is blame¬less, and knew not of it in the least. And nowrmy petition is, that my body may get leave to be,rn the place appointed for the bones to rest, and!that the good people in this place may take caremy grave, that it be not lifted. Which beingnronaised him, he threw off his great-coat, went8and took the last farewell of his sister and other ilacquaintances that were standing by the tree, he Pmoanted the ladder with great courage, till he{|came to the top, then he turned his face to the !spectators, who were mostly in a weeping condi- ijltion, and said. Sirs, do not mourn for my body Jibut pray for my soul, for now is the fatal mom*ent to go to well or woe.Then he caused the 130th Psalm to be sung,and after that he prayed a little with great ferven- Ocy and many tears. He looked down on his sis- jter who wept bitterly at the bottom of the ladder ||and lifted up his head and said, The Lord will be pithy comforter and my mother also, whose heart flwill be broken for what has happened me this day.He then loosed the napkin from his neck ; the fExecutioner was ordered to feel his neck if any <thing was about it; when he understood that, he topened the neck of his shirt, and put the rope on Ihis naked neck, then saying, Since time is no fimore here, farewell world and all that is therein, (then pulling the cap over his face, he went over Itwith these words in his mouth, Into thy hands I llcommit my soul Almighty God. June 14th, (i1754, between the hours of 2 and 3 o’clock af- |;ternoon.The like was never known in the Annals of jlHistory. And for it Dumbarton lost its Circuit |;rights since that time.FINIS.