HISTOKYGLASGOW:PRINTED 1' 0 It T1 f E Pj O O Iv S E PEERSCF THETHE REIGN OF WILLIAM THE CONQUERORTO VICTORIA THE FIRST.PART f.TflLLIAM THK CONQrtrtOK.II I S T 0 R YOF THEKINGS & QUEENS OF ENGLAND.WILLIAM THE CONQUERORBegan toReignDeccm. 25,1066.Reigned21 Years.Was natural son of Robert, Duke of Normandy,and was called the Conqueror because he conqueredHarold the Dauntless, and overthrew the Saxondynasty in this country. He gave out that Edwardthe Confessor left him the crown of England bywill, and determining to assert his right to it,landed in England with an army of 60,000 men,and gave battle at Hastings, where Harold waskilled, and his army defeated; after which Williambecame King of England. He was above eightfeet high, strong built, and well proportioned.Eminent men in this reign:—Edwin and Morcar, Earls ofNorthumberland and Mercia ; Stigand and Lanfram), Arch¬bishops of Canterburr ; Prince Edgar Atheling.3WILLIAM II.Began toReignSept. 10,1087.Reigned12f Years.Surnamed Rufus, from his red hair and floridcomplexion, was the second surviving son to theConqueror, and was by his father’s will appointedhis successor. The Norman barons being dis¬pleased with this, and looking on his brother Robertas the proper owner, a powerful conspiracy wastherefore formed against William by his uncle Odo.WTilliam, sensible of his danger, was soon in thefield at the head of a powerful army. Robertlost his opportunity by not assisting his friends,who had taken fortresses on the hopes of hisassurances, and who, when William appeared be¬fore them, had to implore his mercy. He wasaccidentally shot through the heart with an arrow,by Sir Walter Tyrrel, a French knight, whileshooting at a deer.Eminent men in thit reim :—Odo, bishop of ; FImb-lards, bishop of Durham. ■4HENRY I.Bom1068.DiedDeceni. 2,1.135.Suriuimed Beauclerc, or the fine scholar, from hisliterary talents, was younger brother to Rufus.On the death of Rufus he violently usurped thecrown, to which Robert, Duke of Normandy, hadundoubted claims. Having secured the royaltreasures, in order to second his aims, he unitedthe long breach betwixt the Saxon and Normaninterests, by marrying Matilda, the niece of EdgarAtheling. Henry died in the sixty-seventh yearof his age, at St. Denis, near Normandy, of fever,caused by eating lampreys to excess, fie was cool,cautious, politic, and penetrating ; of great courage,and invincible fortitude ; an excellent companion,and true friend ; not free from that scorn for theEnglish which all his race acquired by their Nor¬man descent and connexions.Eminent men in tin's reign :—Randulph, Archbishop of Can*tarbury ; Robert, Earl of Shrewsbury.[IWas third son of the Earl of Blois, and Adela,daughter of William the Conqueror. Matilda the:: sole heiress to the throne, of which Stephen had soJ | perfidiously deprived her, did not delay in assertingnher right to the crown. Having gained an advan¬tage over the forces of Stephen, she soon deposedhim from the throne, and was crowned in his place.The queen by her pride and haughtiness soon ren¬dered herself odious to her subjects ; and an agree-' ment having been made bewixt Stephen and Henry,S Matilda’s son, it was arranged that Stephen shouldf reign during the remainder of his life, and bequeaththe crown to Henry. About twelve months after,lie died at Canterbury, where he was interred. Hewas brave, active, and industrious ; and fitted byhis personal character to rule with dignity.Eminent men in this reign :—Thurston. Archbishop of York ;i Jplin of Salisbury ; Roger de Hoveden, hittoriam.HENRY TT.Bom1132.DiedJuly C,1 is'XBegan toKeignDec. 8,1154.Reigned34f Years.Was fion of the Earl of Anjou, and Matilda, daughterof Henry I. On ascending the throne, Henry soongave evident signs of his wisdom and power, in Icorrecting those abuses, which from the weaknessof his predecessors, had always been a great source *of complaint. The struggles which in former timeshad been betwixt the king and barons, or the clergy,began now to assume a new appearance ; and libertywas more equally spread throughout the nation.Thomas a’ Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury, wasmurdered before the altar of St. Benedict at Can¬terbury, by some of the attendants at Henry’s court.When Henry heard of this, in order to turn theattention of the people to a different object, hesubdued Ireland, and annexed it to his British do¬minions.. Henry died of a broken heart, aged 57.£mina>it nun in this reinn :—A’ Becket, Richard, and Bald¬win, Arehbi'hnn* of ('a'l-cebury: Karl of TYinbroke.7RICHARD I.Suruamed Cceur-de-licn, from his intrepid valour,succeeded, as the eldest son of Henry, to the Englishthrone. Richard and the king of the French havingassembled an army, amounting to 100,000 men,set sail for the Holy Land; having arrived, theyimmediately declared war, and gained victory aftervictory. Richard having gained a victory overSaladiu, one of the renowned Saracen warriors,concluded a truce for three years ; and returned inthe disguise of a pilgrim through Germany, wherehe was taken prisoner by Leopold, Duke of Austria,who loaded him with shackles, and placed him in adungeon, from which lie was relieved on paymentof a ransom of £100,000. His death was causedfrom a wound received by an arrow at the siege ofChaluz in Limousin..y.'.aiai ,t: ),„•« i.t lhl* iviifit:—KoWn lloofl mid Little John, tit*outlaws ; Henry Fitzabvyn, first Lord Mayor of London.JOHN,Bcsnn toKeignApril 6,ll'.P*.Reigned7i tears.Surnamed Lackland, fourth son of Henry II., andbrother to Richard I., by the will of his brotherascended the throne. By his pride and cruelty, andthe putting to death of his nephew Prince Arthurof Brittany, he soon rendered himself odious to hissubjects. The barons, who had all along been form¬ing a conspiracy, at length marched to Brackley,near Oxford, where the king resided, and havingchosen Robert Fit/,waiter their general maue waragainst the king, which ended in the granting otthe famous Magna Charter. John, however, bythe recklessness of his character, soon raised Inssubjects to a second rebellion. On his road to sup¬press the insurgents, he was seized with a fever,and died, at Newark in the fifty-first year of hisage.Eminent men in Ms reign . --Stephen 0tCanterbury ; Robert Fitzwalter, general ot the Barons army.9HENRY III.Born1207.DiedNov. 16,1272.Began toReignOet. 17,1216.Reigned66 TearsWhen only nine years of age, succeeded to thethrone at the death of his father, and by the favourand support of the Earl of Pembroke, was crownedby the bishops of Bath, Gloucester, and Winchester.The early part of his reign is made memorable bythe loss of the British possessions in Prance. Hewas a prince of a changeable and fanciful temper,haughty and proud ; and altogether a prince ofvery poor abilities ; distinguished by no. virtue,except that of granting his enemies their lives,after he had pillaged them of their estates. Henrydied at Westminster, in the fifty-seventh yearof his reign ; being the longest met with in thechronicles of English history, till the time ofGeorge III.Eminent men in this reign :—Monford, Earl of Leicester;lies Roches, Bishop of Winchester, and Lord Chancellor; Earlof Pembroke, Protector.10EDWARD I.BornDiedJuly 7,1307.Was employed in a crusade in the Holy Land athis father’s death, where he had the misfortune tobe stabbed, and owed the preservation of his lifeto his pious wife Eleanora, who sucked the poisonedwound, at the risk of her life. Though his father sdeath occurred while absent at the Holy Wars, yet,on his return, he ascended the throne with thegreatest tranquility. Edward having gained adecisive victory over the Welsh prince Llewelyn,annexed Wales to his English dominions ; and fromit the eldest son of the reigning king is named thePrince of Wales. Edward died at a small town,named Brough, in Cumberland, while on his waywith an army to invade Scotland ; and was buriedin Westminster Abbey.£mincnt mtn in this reign;—Wickliffe: Roger Bacon :UumphtT Bohun, Earl ot Hereford ; Richard, Earl ofCornwall.11EDWARD II.Sumamed Caernarvon, from his birth-place, was aprince of good appearance, of an indulgent and|| harmless disposition, and to appearance addicted tofew vices ; but wanting that ability and steadiness1 of resolution necessary for the government of anfi agitated rebellious people. Edward after quellingi a conspiracy amongst his English subjects, marchedI to Scotland with an army of 100,000 men, to opposeI Bruce. He was met by him at Bannockburn, withi an army of 30,000 men, and completely defeated.I To add to Edward's unfortunate life, he wasfi deposed, and the crown given to his son. Sentr from prison to prison, Edward at last ended hislife, by a cruel death, at the hands of his barbarousi; keepers, in the twentieth year of his reign.! Eminent men in this reign :—Thomas Plantagenet, Earl ofLancaster; Gavestone, and the Spencers, favorites of theking.12EDWARD III.Had been placed on the throne when his fatherwas deposed. Edward after a successful inroadinto Scotland, turned his attention to France, wherehe urged his claims to the throne, through hismother, who was a daughter of Philip, the lateking. Having landed in Flanders, he took villagesand towns in his advance to Paris ; after whichfollowed the famous battle of Crescy, and the cap¬ture of Calais. The Black Prince, eldest son ofEdward, gained a victory near Poictiers, where hetook John, king of France, prisoner, and had himconvoyed to London. The Black 1 rince diedshortly after, in the forty-sixth year of his age.The king, who was painfully grieved at the loss ofhis son, did not long survive him, but died the yearafter at Surrey, in the fiftieth year of his reign.Eminent men in this reign:—Edward, the Black Prince;John, Lord Chandos; Latimer, Lord Chamberlain; uoger,Lord Mor timer.13RICHARD II.»wfBorn1367.DiedJan. 10,1400.Began toReignJune 21,1377.Reigned23 Years.Son of the Black Prince, was horn at Bordeaux,and succeeded his Grandfather, Edward III. ateleven years of age. He was of a handsome ap¬pearance, and lively disposition ; but infirm, proud,changeable, and wanting that spirit necessary forthe governing a people, poor and discontented, withnobles, haughty and rebellious. While Richardwas engaged in quelling an insurrection in Ireland,the people, headed by the Duke of Hereford, hadassembled to the amount of 60,000 men. Richard’sforces soon began to desert him, and, with no otherhopes of safety, he was obliged to throw himselfon the mercy of the enemy, by whom he was deposedand sent prisoner to Pomfret Castle, where he wasat last murdered by Sir Pierce Exton and othereight assassins.Eminent men in thin reign :—William of Wykeliam, Founderof Winchester College, and of Merton College, Oxford ; WilliamWalworth, Lord Mayor of London.Bom1867.DiedMarch 20,1413.14 .HENRY IV.On the deposition of Richard, the Duke of Lancas¬ter ascended the throne, under the title of Henry IV';During his reign, which was hut short, he performedfew deeds worthy of praise ; and he soon found theseat of a usurper to he a bed of thorns. One con¬spiracy was succeeded by another. But while theking toiled to restore his lost character, his son,the Prince of Wales, by his notorious and illegaldeeds seemed inclined on reviving the indignationof the people. On one occasion he struck SirWilliam Gascoigne in court: the worthy magistratewith becoming dignity, committed the prince toprison. Henry did not, long survive this affair, butdied at Westminster, of leprosy. In his counte¬nance, he was severe, his temper of mind harsh, anddiscontented ; but was brave, firm, and acute.Eminent men in this reign:—Geoffrey Chaucer; Chief JusticeGascoigne : Henry Percy, surnamed Hotspur; Sir RichardWhittington, Lord Mayor of London.15HENRY V.Began ii>Reign.March 2X1113,Eldest son of Ilpurv JY. succeeded at uis fatlier’s, eath to the throne. Though he had been publiclynown for his dissolute and unrestrained conductefore his father’s death, yet, on ascending theirone he threw off every mark of his former career,(ailed on his late companions to follow his admouif ions, and leave off their dissolute life. Sir Williamascoigne, who had imprisoned him, he treatednth respect, and exhorted him to follow tlie sameust and disinterested performance of his duty,lenry, after a successful inroad into France, mar¬k'd Catherine, the king’s daughter, and had him-elf declared heir after the king’s death. Henry,Lvhen in the height of his glory and prosperity, wasseized with a complaint which proved fatal. He wasfirm, and patient; uniformly chaste and temperate.Eminent men in t/iis reign :—Cardinal Beaufort, Bishop ofinchester ; Talbot, Khrl of Shrewsbury.16HENRY VI.Be^an ttj!Reign j jAugust 3S1422.Reigned!.‘!8J YearsSucceeded Ids father wlieu only about a year oldand shortly afterwards became king of France a,the death of Charles \ f. The Duke of Bedforo 1was appointed regent during the minority of tinyoung king, who was chaste, pious, merciful anckind; but unhappily he had a weakness of minewhich unfitted him for governing without theassistance of others. The Duke of Bedford dyingin 1443, affairs in England were in a lamentablestate. After a variety of troubles Henry was de¬posed, though ably supported by his wife, Margaretof Anjou, who was possessed of masculine abilities iand daring "bravery. He was finally committed to !the Tower, where he was murdered in the fiftieth !year of his age ; and his son was murdered by the:hands of the Dukes of Gloucester and Clarence.Eminent men in this reign :—Bishop of Winchester; Dukes! iof Bedford, Gloucester, and Exeter, regents and guardians to*Che king.17EDWARD IV.Began toReignMarch 5,1461.Reigned22 Years.Son o‘ Ricliarri, Duke of York, whose father hadbeen killed in battle while disputing the crown withHenry VI., appeared in the field at his father’sdeath, and after a series of battles had been fought,in which torrents of blood had been shed, wasplaced on the throne. Edward was of an elegantappearance, and pleasing address ; possessing firm¬ness, courage and sagacity ; but cruel, revengeful.lewd, and given to adultery. Among the numberof his mistresses was one Jane Shore, remarkablefor her beauty. She was married to a rich gold¬smith in London, where Edward went in disguise,saw her, and through Lord Hastings induced herto leave her husband. Edward, while makingpreparations to invade France, was taken ill of adisease, of which he died.Eminent men in this reign .-—William Caxton, the first printerin England ; Earl of Warwick, called the king-maksr; Tip toft,Karl of Worcester.I3 Months.Son of the preceding monarch, succeeded his fatherwhen only twelve years of age. The Duke ofGloucester was nominated protector during theminority of the young king, whose reign was short.The Duke had the king and his younger brotherconveyed to the Tower, under pretence of affordingthem greater safety, and had them suffocated whileasleep with the pillows and coverings of their bed.Lord Hastings, who had a warm interest in theyoung king, was beheaded. Having then gainedover the most powerful noblemen, he assumed tothe crown, which was offered him, and which hoaccepted with seeming reluctance. The Dukewas proclaimed king on the 20th of June, 1483,and was crowned on the 6th of July, having assertedthe illegitimacy of the young king and his brother.Eminent men in this reign :—Richard, Duke of Gloucester,Protector j Lord Hastings.DiedJune,•' 1483.Born• 1470.19RICHARD III.Began toReignJ une 27,4483.Reigned2 Years!.Was brother of Edward IV., and found his way tothe throne through crime. While the usurperendeavoured to secure his power, he received resist¬ance from a person, from whom he least expectedit. The Duke of Buckingham, who had been hisabettor in his crimes, levied an army in Walesagainst him. A scarcity of provisions obligedBuckingham to disperse his army ; in the mean¬time he took shelter in the house of one of hisservants, who, tempted by the large reward offeredfor his master, betrayed him to the enemy, who hadhim tried, and executed. Richard was killed in thebattle of Bosworth-field. He had a disagreeablecountenance, and was possessed of uncommon deci¬sion, acuteness and courage, but the wdiole courseof las life was that of a tyrant.Eminent men in this rtisjn :—Duke of Buckingham ; LordStanley; Duke of Norfolk.; Viscount Level; Sir RichardRatcliffe ; Sir William f'ateshy.Earl of Richmond, of the house of Lancaster,ascended the throne on the death of Richard at thebattle of Bosworth-field. He married Elizabeth,daughter of Edward IV., and heiress of the York ifamily. This united the interests of both families,rendering the throne free from further dispute.To gain the favour and affections of his subjects, t.Henry granted a general pardon to all who chose Ito accept it. After quelling some disturbances,Henry ruled with a steady hand till his death,which happened after a reign of twenty-three years.This reign was productive of many happy results,more particularly for the benefit of the people.None of Henry’s predecessors ever did more forthe extension of commerce, and for the support ofagricultural industry than he did.Eminent men in tint reign .-—Sebastian Cabot, a great navi¬gator ; Cardinal Morton, "Lord Chancellor,HENRY VIII.Began toReignApril 22,1509.Reigned37i Years.iSon of Hcnrj VII. No person over ascended thedirone under more favourable circumstances. HisEEither left the kingdom in a prosperous state ; wellupplied with money and soldiers, to protect itsreedom and commerce. But Henry was vain, ex¬travagant, voluptuous, over-bearing, and wastedI he exchequer in frivolous pageantries. In all hisxcesses he was seconded by his haughty, profligate,,nd unprincipled minister, Wolsey ; who lived theife of a mean intriguing libertine, and after for-eiting the favour of his equally unprincipled andirofligate master, died in all the pangs of horrormd remorse. The most important event that tookdace in this reign, was the Reformation. Henry’s;nd was fast approaching, and many were put toSleath for prognosticating it.Eminent men in thin reign :—Bishop Craumer; Sir Thoma*Hoore ; Lord Cromwell; Bishop Gardiner.22EDWARD VI.Began toReignJan. 2fl,1547.Reigned6} Y«ir*.Was the only son of Henry VIII. He came to thethrone at nine years of age. IIis father had fixedhis majority at eighteen, and appointed sixteenexecutors ; the Duke of Somerset, with the title ofProtector at their head. Dudley, Earl of Warwick,a crafty man, started forth as rival to SomersetHe got some others to join him, and did not resttill he accomplished the ruin of the Protector.Edward, whose health was fast declining, continuedto languish ; few had access to him, but the crea¬tures of Dudley, who had, by this time, become theDuke of Northumberland. At length the youngking was put into the hands of an ignorant woman,who very confidently undertook his cure. Afterbeing a short time under her treatment, he expiredat Greenwich, in the sixteenth year of his age.Eminent men in this reign :—Crannier, Archbishop of Canter¬bury ; Lord Seymour ; Dukes of Somerset and Northumber¬land ; Guildford, I^wd Dudley.23MARY,i-i,Born1516.DiedDee.1558,Began toReignJuly 16,1553.Reigned5 Year*.lluughter of Henry VIII. and Catherine of Arro-gan, ascended the throne after deposing Lady JaneGrey, who had been nominated in the late king’swill as his successor, and whom she caused to bebeheaded, with Lord Dudley and other persons ofquality. Mary was extremely bigoted in the RomanCatholic religion; on which account she was thrownout of the succession to the crown. A persecutionbegan by the burning of the most honourable menin the kingdom, amounting to about 300 souls ;besides those punished by confiscation of theirestates, fines, and imprisonments. In the year1557, Calais, which had been in the possession ofthe English for upwards of 200 years, was takenby the Duke of Guise. Mary fell into a decline,and died after a short reign of five years.m&n in reign.:—Cardinal Pol© | Lord Stafford ;ftwhope Latimer. Hooper, and Ridley.ELIZABETH,Was daughter of Henrj VIII. and Anne Boleyn.On her accession to the throne she was hailed bythe people with the utmost joy, and crowned withthe greatest solemnity. She possessed a penetratingmind, and prudent judgement; and was a greatpolitician, and linguist. In her first parliamentshe passed act after act establishing the Reformedreligion, hut treated the Catholics with tenderness,Elizabeth showed her resentment to the unfortunateMary, Queen of Scots, who when driven from herkingdom craved Elizabeth’s protection; and insteadof being treated as an exiled sovereign, was confinedin Tutbury castle, and after being confined for 19years, was tried on a charge of treason, found guilty,and executed in 1586. Elizabeth died after areign of nearly 45 years ; during which, the com¬merce of England increased with great rapidity.Emincyit mm in this reign ;—Shakespeare ; Bacon ; Sir Wal¬ter Raleigh ; Sir John Hawkins.