ANCIENT AND MODERNHISTORYor THERuffian EmpireGiving an Account of its extent. PopulationxCities, Trade and Commerce, with a Delicrip-tion of the artificial and natural curiofnies inthat vaft Empire ; together with the culloirsand manners of the Ruffiar s and CofiackjLikewife, giving an account of Bonap rte's erup¬tion into that Empire in i8iz with an army ofabove 450 000 men ‘ which caufed the burningand deftroving of that Ancient and ImpendCity of Mofcow, with the lives of raoie thanhalf a million of people.EDINBURGH:Printed by J. MORREN. Gowjateif8l3*OF SCOTLAND HAN E .>7 H I S T O R Y,OF THERUSSIAN EMPIRE.    • •The Empire of Rullia is the l3rgeft in the■who e globe, extending from well to eaft up*wards of two thoufanj common leagues ; andabout eight hundred in its greateft breadth,from north to fouth. It borders upon Polandand the Frozen Sea and joins to Sweden on theweft and China on the eaft. Its length, fromthe ifland of Dago in the weftermoft part ofLivonia, to its moft eaftcrn limits, takes in near17° degrees; fo that when it is noon in the weft-ern patts of the empire, it is nearly mid-nightin the eaftern. Its breadth, from north to fouth,is 3600 wrefts, which makeSso French leagues.i he limits of this' country irere but littleknown at the end of the 17 century, for in 1689,when the Chinefe and Ruffians were at War,in order to terminate their differences, the Em¬peror Cam-hi on the one hand, and the Czars,m John and Peter on the other, had fent theirminifters to meet an enabafly within three hun¬dred leagues of Pekin, on the borders of thetwo empires, this accout was then treated as afi<ftion;3ThfiflCouotry now; comprehended_under thename pf Ruffia, or the Ruflias’ is of greaterextent than all the reR of Europe, and more| than the Roman Empire ever was, or that ofDarius, fubdued by Alexander the Great; forit contains upwards of one million, one hundredthoufand fquare leagues (t];iieeJEnglifli mile* isa league. i\either the Roman Empire, nor thatj of Alexander, contained,more than five hundredan#1 fifty thoufand each ; and there is not aking-i dom in Europe tjie twelfth pavt.fo extenftve asi Roman eeiph e ;va> }• but to make Ruffie as\l populous, as plentiful, and as well Uored withtowms, as our fouthern qountries, wo-uld.requirewhole agc7s, and a rae.e of monarch# inch jis 1’e.ter, thp Great. ,, ■ 'The Englilh ambafladcr, .v-'ho refuled at 5tFeteriburg 1733, and wK? had been at Madrid,c fays in his manul’cript rtlatfor. That in Spain,r which is the leaft populous Rate in Europe,there may be reckoned;forty perfpns to everyfquare mile and in Ruflia not above five Marfnal Vauban, the greatefl of Engineers andthe befl of citizen#, computes, That in Krapce,every- fquare mile contains aoo inhabitants.Thefe calculations are pevcr Very exaft, butthey ferv.c to fhVw the amazing difproportiooin the population in ta o different coqntriss.,Tt i# proper to pbferve here, that from i'e-terfburg, the new capitalof Ruffia,’to Pekin, thecapital of China, there ia hardly one mountainto be met with in the route which the caravansmight take through independant Tartary ; andthat from Petetfburgh to the north of France,4by the road to Danzic, Hamburg and Amfter-dam, there is not even a hill of any enrtnence.This obfervation leaves room to doubt of thetruth of that theory, which make* the mount¬ains to have been formed bv the rolling of thewaves of the fea, and fup]vofes all that is at pre-fent dry land, to have been a long time cover-,ed with water: But how comes it to pafs, thatthe waves, which, according to the fuppbfition,formed the Alps the Pyrenees and Motnt Ta¬urus did not iikewife form fome eminence drhill from Normandy to China, a fpace of above3000 leagues.Formerly Ruflia was called Mufcory, fromthe City of Mofcow,’the ancient capital of thatEmpire. It is the largeft province and moft'pb-pulous of the whole, extending from eaft to weft2400 miles, Mofcow was formerly the refidenceof the Grand DukesThe countries from Smolenflco to the otherfide of Mofcow, is cal ed white Ruffia, but Hub-ner the hiftorian, gives it the name of Black;and the government ofKiow is generally balledblack Rnfiia.It is very likely that Madies the Sytheati Jwho madeanirruption into Alia,near 7000 year;]before our vulgar sera, might have carried hisiarms'into thefe regions, as Genzis-Khan and 1Tamerlanedid afterwards andasprobablv others ihad done before Madies Every part of anti-Jquity is not deferring of our enquiries; that i>f 1of the Chinefe, the Indians, the Perians, |and the Egyptians, ir afcertained from illuuri- *ous and interefting monuments; b»t thefe mo. -5S’ nutrients fuj fc- ■ 'e tithers of far more ancient date.We (bould alwcys I'eep in mi d, tlrat no familyupon earth knows its firit founder, and confe-quently that no nation know* its origin.That part of Kuffia which lies in K nrope is150O miles in length, and i ico in breadth; be¬tween the 47 and yi® N. iat. and 23 and 65 E-loti. This: extenfive empire is at piefent di vid¬ed into 16 large governments, that may cometo be fudivrded, nJhen the northern and eaftern| countries come to be more inhabited Thele16 Governments, which contain fcveralimmenfe} Provinces are the toll-owing: Livonia, Revel,Peterflnrrg, aud Wybarg, Archangel, RuffianLapland, Mofcow, Smolenfko, Novcgorod andKipw or the Ukraine, ^tlgofod Woronit* and1 Nnchgorod Aftracan, Orembourg, Gafan, audGreat Permia, Siberia, Samogedes, the Uftiaeks,I Kamfcatlka &c.Livonia, the neareft province to France, is oneof the moft fruitful in the whole north. In theilcentuary the inhabitants were Pagans; andat that time certain xncrchaats of Bremen andLubec traded to this country; and a body otreligiouscrufaders, called Port-glaives, orfwordbearers, made themfelves matters of this pro¬vince, in the 13 century at that time when thefury of the cruiades armed the Chriftians againftevery one who was not of their religion.Albert, margrave of Brandenburgh, grandmatter of thele religious conquerers, made him-felf fovereign of Livonia, and of Brandenburg-Pruffia, about the year 1514. Krom that timethe Ruffians and Poles began to difpute aboutdie poflcllion of this province. Soon sfter it Iwas invaded by the Swedes, and for a longStime :continued to be ravaged by thefe feveral powers iGuftavus. Adolphus having conquered it, it was 1then ceded to the Swedes i6<5o, by the famous'treaty of Oliva; and, at length, Gear Peter. ^refted it from thefe latter. Courland, whichjoins to Livonia, is fiill in vafTakgeto Poland,though it depends greatly upon Uuifia; Tbefeare the weftern limits of this great empire inLhriffendom. IS^ore nonthward is the gdverr.-tnent of Revel and Lafthonia, ileveVwas berltby,,the Dunes in the 13,,.century. The .Swedesv ure in’polfellion of this province from .the timethat country put itfelf under the prate£iion ofthat crown This i* another of the conqueftsof Peter,the Great. ;DESCRIPTION* of St PETERSBURG.,0 n the borders of Eaflhonia lies the Gulph 1't Einlyid. To,the call ward of this fea, and at \!lje junction of- the Neva with lake Ladoga, J50titles-l .'ng r rd po broad; joined to the lea by 3':v--/ i-.c vi swagi 0, cu: by PfieriheGreatat■. ' -! ! * ice miies longaihelv3fhfoap,.,hr,s.a aorampnication with Lsdoga'hvtljc.tjvriiGwj-r, and with the White Sea, a chati-•'**1 lafeiv cut between thefe lakes, all run or are•deed to the. Neva, at the confluence of whichs iitfiatyd Peter fburgh, now the capital pfRufiia,the moiv modern Piid boll built city in the whole;mpire, fcut.ded.by Czar Peter, in fpite of all.r.o unit'a . 'Ttlaclcs wliio'i oppofed its founds.iron. This citv is fituated on the hr.y of Ci'™»ftadt, in the midil of nine risers, by which itsdifferent quarters are divided in the centreof this city is almoit an impregnable fortress,built on an ifland, formed by the main llreamof tftertYer Neva. Seven canals are cut Iromthe rivers, and wrdh the walls of one tu theRoyal Palaces of tne Admir..lty, of the Doc'1-yard for the Gallies, and of feverat buildings ofmanufaflories Thirty-five large churches con¬tribute to adorn the city; among which -fiveare alioted to foreigners, of the Roman Catho*'ItCj C&lvinift,and Lutheran religions: There arefo many temples raifed to toleration, and ex¬amples to other nations. I here are five Pala¬ces ; the old one, called Summer.Palace., fitua-ted on the river Neva, has a very large andbeautiful ftone buluftrade, which runs all alongthe river fide. The new Summer-Palace, nearthe triumphal gate, is one of the fineft pieces ofArchite&ute in Europe. I he Admiralty build-ings, the S^ifeol for Cadets, the Imperial Col¬lege, the Academy of Sciences, the Exchange,the Merchants* YV arehoufes, are all magnificentStructures, and monuments of tafle and publicutility. The Town-Houfe, the Public Difpen-fary, where all the vefiels are of Porcriane, theCourt Magazines, the Koundery, the Arlenal,the Bridges, the Markets, the Squares, theBarracks for the Horfes and Foot Guards, con-ribute at once to the embelliflinient of the Ci¬ty, which is faid to contain 400,000 fouls. Intheenviorns of the city are fevers! Villas, 0’.8country-feats, which iurprife all travellers by •>their magnificence. 1 here is one in particular rhi(h has ’lA ater Work fuperior to thofe oVerfailles. There was nothing of ail this in \1702, the whole being then only an impaflablemoraf.This city is the grand empoiium of Ruffiancommerce; and, of confequnce, a vaft numberof foreign fhips are conftantly to be met with inits port. In the winter time* no fewer than30CO lied; es, drawn by one horfe each, ply inthe ftretts for the convenience of pafiengers.litre alfo is a hcurdling Hofpitai, where wo¬men may •erne to be privately delivered, andafterwards leave her child,to be taken care ofby the public. In this city alfo there is a re- jmarkabie Conv'ent, for the education of 440young , women, 2co of which are people of rank,and the reft daughters of citiaens J.nd tradefmen.After he erm allotted for their education isc apfed. they are allowed to quite the Convent,and a dowry allowed to thole of the lower rank,with which the may be enabled-to procurethemfelves a livelihood, if they do not thinkproper to marry.natural CURIOSITIESWith a defetiption of au iinimalnow unknown.Among the curiofities of Ruffia, we may rotunjuftly reckon the city of Peterlburgh itfelf,the railing of which fo iuddenly, and in fuch afituation, may, ptih ps, vie with the greateftworks of antiquity. Ihe fertrefs of Crorftut,9which defends it, was almotl entirely plannedby the Emperor, Peter the Great, himfelf; andas the marlhy fituation of both rendered it ne-ceflary that the foundations (hould be uponwooden piles, driven into the ground, no fewerthan 300.000 men were employed for fome timeday and night in that work ; and during this,and many of his other works, the Emperorhimfelf often afiifted as a common labourer.1 n the citv of Feterlburp there is a Cabinetof Natural Hiftory, in which, is Ihewn amongother curiofiks, a complete Rhinoceros dug upon the banks of the river Valui, in 1'uoh a fateof prefervation as even to have the hair uponit. In Siberia there are fometimes dug up thebones of an unknown animal, of enormous mag¬nitude, far exceeding in fize thofe of the largeftElephants We are alfo informed, that in dif¬ferent parts of Siberia, as well in the mountuinias the vallies, likewife in Germany, Peru, theBrazils, and _xCorth America, ou the banks o£the Ohio, near the river Mimatne, about 700miles from the fea, and 5 or fix feet beneaththe furface of the grourd, there have frequentlybeen found foffil tusks, and bonof a very lagrefize; jfomewhat refembling thofe of the elephant.In temperate climates thefe are fofteiied, andconverted into foffil ivory ; but in countriesfrequently frozen, they a* e gen-, ruily found ve-ry ftwQr. According to tradition, they are thebonerW the Mammouth, an anmmal no longerto found on the iurface of the globe. Th's an¬imal, however, is deferibed by M. Muller, asof a greyifli colour, about thirty feet long, andiptwelve or fifteen in height, his head longj andfront very broadunder the eyes he has twohorns, which he can move and crofs at plea-fore j in walking, he has the power of extend¬ing and contracting hia body to a very greatdegree. Mr Pennant is of opinion that theMammouth flill exifts in tho remote parts ofAmerica, which have not yet been penetratedby Europeans.Thefe bones have exercifed the ingenuity ofthe learned in different parts of the world.—Some are of opinion, that they are the bones ofovergrown elephants; but Dr Hunter, by aa careful examination of them, has fliewn thatthey differ in many refpefts from thefe, and par¬ticularly that the teeth are thofe of a camivi-rous animal, or< at leaft one of the mixed kind;and confequently could not belong to an ele¬phant, which is never known to tafte flelh—A thigh bone, which mealured three feet teninches and fix lines, was found in a room atLiverpool, ffom whence feme people who keptwild beails had fuddenly decamped in the night,leaving this bone behind them, which had pro¬bably been one of their Curiofities. This bonewai four inches feven lines broad in the nar¬rowed part, and two inches nine lines in thick-nefs; its circumference in the fmalletl: part, 13inches. Some time afterwards a bone of thefeme animal was found, which meafured near¬ly four feet in length, and weighed upwards ofeighty pounds. The thigh bone of an elephant, jieven feet high, meafured only two feet, teninches, and three lines in length.tlAi Siberia appeari to have been inhabitedby animals nofr unknown, fo likewife it appearsto have been inhabited by a race of men totallyunoticed in hiftory, and whofe former exiftanceis now only difcovered by their fepolchres,■which contain fome of their arms and inltru-ments, all of them made of copper. In one ofthe expeditions of Peter the Great to the coaftsof the Gafpian Sea, his people having penetra¬ted into the country about 150 leagues, difco¬vered a great (lone building, half covered withfand, the architecture of which had a confider-able refembl rice to that of fome of the mins ofancient Prefopolis. On entering it, they founda number of preffes made of black hard wood,and containing near 300 books, in the form ofquarto volumes. The country people wouldnot allow them to carry thefe away, lookingupon them aS facrej; but they found means tobring off three, which they delivered to the *Emperor. They appeared to be compofed ofvery large (beets of thick paper, fuppofcd to bemade of cotton, or the bark of trees, laid Overwith two varnidses above each other, one ofa blue, and the other of a black colour ; thecharacters were written in white; but as all thelines were of sn equal length it could not bedetermined whether they were -written t pomleft to right, or from rij ht to left. Severalbrafs llatr.es were aifo procured from the pea-fanu in the neighbourhood, among which wasthat of a Roman General crowned with laurel;others had armour; like, that wVtn in the wellthe 12th and 13th centuries, and there werei’everal Indian Idols,The Ruffian alphabet has 36 letters, ftrong-ly refemb ing the ancient Greek; but the lan¬guage itfelf is a mixture of the Polifli and Scla-v»nian. I he Clergy, at leatt the more learned,1’peak the modernn Greek; which, however,cannot be underltood by thofe who know theancient language in its purity.ACCOUNT OF THE COSSACKS.The Coffiacks were at firil peafants of Pol¬and,} but, being grievoully oppreffied by their jlandlords, they emigrated to fome uncultivatedlands on the banks of the Tan»is, or Don,where they formed. Being joined by two q-ther laige bodies in 1637, they reduced the ci¬ty of Ai'oph, but were foon after obliged to ,give it up to the Turks, though not withoutprevioufly having laid it in allies. Having thenput themieives under the protection of Ruffia,they built ther capital Cereafka, on an iflandin the river Don, but were little other thannominal fubjefts to that emp re, till the timeof Peter the Great. In his time they frequent¬ly xebelle.l, but always fufftred feverely fortheir prelumpucn; and at luft, the ColTacks ofthe Ukraine alfo put themfelvts under the pioteftion of Ruffia. Eefines thefe, there are alfothe Yaik or Uralian ColLckjS on the banks otthe Yiik or Ural in Afia. At the time whenthe Coflacks firif fubmitted to .Kuffia they poffed thirty-nine towns on the banks oi the Don,13from Ribna as far as Afoph. They ftill enjoyalmoO ->11 their Ubertie*, on the fpecial condi¬tion of terving in their wars.' he government of the Coflacks very muchrefembles that which Tacitus defcribes amongthe ancient Germans; \ Chief is elefled bythe principal people of the nation, but with theapprobation of the Emperor; this Chief, call¬ed by them Hauptman holds his authority forlife, and has a fuperiority over the other Chiefs,called Hermans, who are chofen annually.The refidence of the principal liauptman is atCercaflca. •which is therefore accounted the ca¬pital of the country.DESCRITION or MOSCOW.Moscow, the ancient capital of the Ruffianempire, ftands on the river Moflcaw lies about1400 miles north eafl of London. This citywas lon^ the centre of the Ruffian dominions,before they were extended on the fine of Chinaand Perfia. Mofcow lying in a warmer elim-a.e, aud more fruitful foil than St Peterfburg,is iituated in the midi! of a large and delightfulplain, on the above river, and lefler rivess,which, w ith the former, fall into the rieer Oc-ca, and after \ aids join the great river Wolga,which f.Hs into the Cafpian Sea at Aftracan.This ch\, in the 13, ■ rehmry, was only a ool-leftion . f huts, inhabi: d by a fet of pcor mi-ferdble peopl-, oppr !lrd by the deJc< odr.otsthe uloody (jenris Khan i he Kremlin, orancient palace of the Greit Dukes, * as not*5©ne judged as a German, the other as an Eng-lifliman and both by comparlfon with their owncountries. The Englifhman was fhocked to feemoft of the Boyars, or Mofcovite noblemen,fleep upon boards or benches, with only thefkins ot wild animals under them ; but this wasthe ancient praftice of al l nations. The houfes,which were almoft all built of wood, had fcarce-ly any furniture; few or none of their tableswere covered with cloth; there was no pave¬ment in their flreets; nothing agreeable; noconvenience; very few artificers, and thpfe fewextremely backward, and employed only inworks of abfolute necetlity. Thefe peoplemight hlave palled for Spartans, had they beenfober. But on their public days the court dif-plays all the fplendor of a Perfian monarch.The Earl fays, he could fee nothing but goldand precious ftones, on the robs of the Czar andhis courtiers. Thefe drefles were not manu-fa&ured in the country ; and yet it is evident,that the people might have been rendered in-duftrious long before that time, tn fhort, fomeparts of this vaft city have the appearance of aicqueftered defert; others, of a populous town;fome, of a contemptible village ; others, cf agreat capital. There is in Mofcow above a thou-fand churches andchapels; fome of which havebells of a ftunendous fize; particularly one of0,88,000 pounds weight, and another of 432,006,being the largeft in the world. The cathederalof the Afliimptioo of the Virgin Mary is themoft magnificent church in Mofcow ; and moftbuilt till the uth century, by ftalian Archi-te^s, under Baiilius Cafan, the fecond GreatDuke, who conquered the provinces of Serve-ria, Rofcovia, and Smoleniko, with the realirsof Aftracan and Cafan, from which lafl he tookhis firname. There were a!To feveral churchesbuilt in the Gothic tafte, which then prevailedover all Europe, There are two churchesbuilt in the 15th century, by the famous Ari-itotle of Bologna, who flourifhed at that time;but the private houfes were then no better thanwooden huts, and even to this day wretchedhovels are blended withfuperb palaces; cottagesof one ftory (land next to the moft (lately man.fions. Many brick druaures are covered withwooden tops; fome of the wooden houfes arepainted, others have iron doors and roof.The firft writer who brought us acquaintedwithMoicow, wasOlearius who, 1633, wentthither as the companion of an embafly from theDuke of Holltein « A native of Holftein mudnaturally be ftruck with wender at the immenfeextent of the city of Mofcow, with its fivequarters, efpecially the magnificent one belong¬ing to the emperors, and with the ifiatic fplen-oor wmch then reigned at that Court. Therewas nothing equal to it in Germany at thattime nor any city, by far fo extenfive or wellpeopled \ ,0 far this writer. On the contrary,tne Earl of Carllile, who was AmbafTador fromCharles 11. to the Czar Alexis, 1663, complainsin his relation, that he could not meet with an-7one convenience of life in Moicow; no inns onthe road, nor refrefliments of any kind TheconfpicaouS of the public inftitutions heer is theFoundling Hofpital.Though the city of 'Mofcow, at the time theEarl ?as there, had neither the magnificencenor arts of our great cities, yet its circumferenceof jo miles, and the part called Chinele Town,where all the rarities of China are exhibited,the fpacious quarter of the Kremlin, whereftood the Palace of the Czars; the gilded domes,the lofty turrets; and, laltly, the prodigiousnumber of its then inhabitants, amounting tonear 500,000;; all this together, rendered Mof-cow one of the ihoft cor.fiderble cities in theworld.Theodore, or Feeder, eldeft brother to Peterthe Great, began to improve Mofcow. He or-•dened ieveral large houies to be built of Hone,but without any regular archite&ure. He en¬couraged the principal perfons of his Coort tobuild, advancing them fums of money, and fur-nifhing them with materials Lie was the firllwho Colle&ed ftuds of fine horfes, and made le-vera* ufeful embellifhments Peter, who >asattentive to even thing, did not neglect Mof¬cow at the time he was building St Peiei fburg^for he caufed n to be paved and adorned itwith noble edifices, and enrich* d it with manu-faftures ; and Mr Showalow , high chamberlainto emprefs Elizabeth, daughter t<> Pe*er theGrta1' has founded an Uaniveruty in th*i city.. he ilree s of Mo'co • are noi regular, butit contains fuch a number of gardens lawns,and running dreams that it makes a beautifulappearance, add looks like a cultivated countryrather thaa a city. Thus its extent is prodigi -oufly large ; and if we confider onl) the groundon which it ft nds, it is unoubtedly the largeft:in Eui ope. The number of its inhabithants,however is certainly veiy ; real, as it contains43 Palaces, or Squares, 1600 churches or con¬vents; L.nd% according to M. Bufliing, the mer¬chants Exchange has 6coo (hops, where a greatcommerce is cai’ried on with China. The prin¬cipal buildings, fuch as the Palaces .churches, andconvents, are fumptous and magnificent; butthe houfes, as before obferved, are poor wood¬en edifices, which difplay the utmqft povertyand meannefs. The grand Imperial Palace,silled the Kremlin, is accounted one of themoft fuperb ftu&rues in the world: all thechurches there having their fpires gilt, or co¬vered with filvdr; their infides being alforichly ornamented, and the pi&ures of theSaiuts decked with gold, filver, and preciousftones. The eathederal has nine towers cover¬ed vitb copper, double gilt, and contains a fd-ver t ranch with 48 lights, weighing ?8oc libs.The archite&ure of thefe buildings are Gothic.The Krem.in (lands on many acres of ground,in the interior part of the city, and containsthe old Imperial Palace Pleafure-Houfe, andftables, together with the Palace belonging tothe Patriarch, nine cathedrals, five convents,four parifli churches, a viftuaUinj/.houfe, arfe-nal, and public colleges, &c. all within thewalls of the Kremeliu'ihe magnificence of this city, indeed, wouldbe incredible, were it n t that the particularsi8have been attefted by unqueftionable witness,and that morruments of its grandeur £ill remain.The church of Jerufalem was thought to befuch a magnificent ftrufbure, that John hafilides,who reigned in the 16th century, isfaid to hareoaufed the eyes of the architeft to be put out,that he might never behold one equal to it.In the Palace of the Kremlin, alfo, there is animage of the Virgin Mary, fo richly decoratedwith precious ftones, and other valuable orna¬ments, that it can Icarcely be equalled by thatat Loretto in Italy. The foundling Hofpitalwas erefled in this city, by the order of the latei'mprds, and is 1 upper ted by voluntary contri¬butions, legacies, &c. It is of a quadrangularIhape, and of vaft extent, beina; defigned tocontain 8occ children, though a; prefent thereare only 300. Particular care-is taken «f themduring their infancy, and alfo of their educati¬on atterwards. At the age of 14 they are putto trades, which they have the liberty of clul¬ling for themfelves; and for the purpofe of in-Ilru&ing theta in thefe, various fpecies of raa-nufaftures ai'e eftabliflied in the hofpital itfelf;after which,'they are at liberty to let up forthemfefves in any part of the empire; and toenable them to do fo, each haj a fum of moneybellowed upon them This laft mud be account¬ed a very confiderable privilege in Ruffia, thepeafants being generally Oaves, and not allow-to remove from place to place.The number of inhabitants in this vc* city,eacnot be at prefent exactly afeenained, but itrauft certainly be very great, it contained up-»9wards of. 40,000 houfes, and Voltair in histime eftiwated the inhabitants at 500,000:The inhabitants of Mofcow are extravagantlyfond of bells, as indeed they are over all Kuflia,but here they keep a perpetual tinkling in eve¬ry quarter. Here is one of an insmenfe fize,the weight of which were formerly menti¬oned, which, if the accounts we have of it betrue, exceeds every other w# know of. Theheight of it is nearly 20 feet, and its diameter 23It was at firft fafptndcd by a huge beam ofwood; but this being deftroyed by accidentalfire, the bell fell down, and a piece broke outof the fide of it and has therefore ever fincebeen rendered ufelefs.Before we proceed to the defiruclion of this oncelarge city, now in ruins, we give aa account ofthe feveral other great and coroineciat townsia this vaft empire. And, firft,Cror.fladt (on Kotlin ifle ip. the Gulph of Fin-, hind) is noted for its forts, docks, haven forihip* of u ar, hofpital for Tailors, and academyfor marines apd officers of the navy,—Narva •is a fort fled town on the .river Narva. Thehoufes are built of brick, fiucoed white. HereIcier the Great was defeated by Charles Xil.;n i^co.-i-Riiya is fituated on the weftern Dwi-na or Duna, tffiout nine miles from its month,and neit to Peteilburgh, is die moft commer¬cial town in the whole empire. Within thefortifications there is 9000 inhabitants, 15,000iothe fuburbs, and a numerous garrifon in. the■titidale. Over the Dwina. there is here aflouting bridge, 40 feet in breadth, and 260020in len. th Novgorod, or Novogord, (lands onboth fides of the river Volkhov nei»r lake Il¬men. It was, in former times, the largeli cityin Ruffia, containing above 400^00 inhal>itants;it how contains feareely 7CCO. A vaft num¬ber of ruinous churches and convents are me¬lancholy monuments of its former rna niti-cence. Wologda, cr Vologda, on a river ofthe fame name, a placo of great trade, and hasa large magnificent church a caille and a fort.Archangel is feated <m the n rthern D*ina,at twenty miles from its mouth. It was longthe only lea port »f Ruflia; but fuvcetha buildingof Peterfburgh its trade isgreatly dminidied—Smolenflto, on the Dneiper, is furrounded witha wall 30 feet high, and 15 thick. It is of greatextent; but t e h.ufes are poorly built, and itdoes not contain above 4000 inhabitants. Ihiscity was almoft d*(lroyed at the battle whichwas fought near it, between the French andRuffians lad autum —Kiow, is fituated oh theweft fide of the Dnieper. It is divided into theOld and New Towns has a caftle, and carrieson a confiderable trade.—Catharinenflay, (landslikewife on the Dnieper, oppofite the firft of itsqatarafts. It is a new town, 'ounded by thelate emprefs, its name fignifies, t he Glory ofCatharine—Poltaowa, famous for the defeat ofCha les XII. by Peter the Great, June 17th1709; in which 3ooo Swedes were killed, and16,000 taken prifoners. Charles fled to Ben¬der in l urkey. Ockza!- ow, is a to*n and fort-refs of confiderable ftrength, at the mout h of theDneiper, oppofite Kinburn. It was feveral times31taken irom the Turks by the Ruffians, and ced¬ed to the latter in 1791:—Aftracan, at the mouthof the Volga on the Cafpian fea, carries on agreat trade with Mofcow and Peterfburgh.1 he chronicles of this country reach no high¬er than the ninth century, and till the time ofPeter the Great, who dying in 1725, was fuc-ceededby his wife Catherine. She was followedby the Duke Holtlein, under the title of Peter IT.In 1762, Peter 11 . became emperor, but was foondeprived of his crown and life hy his wife, Ca-thrine il. a womau of great abilities and un¬bounded amdition. On her death, which hap¬pened fuddenly in 1796, (he was fucceded byher fon Paul; at whofe deceafe, in 1801, hisfon Alexander the-prcfen emperor alcendedthe throne.RELIOGIOM OF THE RUSSIANS.The Ruffians in general profefs the religionof the Greek chu ch, governed by Patriarchs,or Bifliops, the patriarch of Mofcow being thechief, though different from the Roman, is no lefareplete with abfurdity and fuperftition : how¬ever, they difclaim the authority of the Pope,and do not admit of tie worlhip of images; butthey confider the faints as mediators, and havetheir churches adorned with their piftures—They have alfo fuch a nnmber of. faft-days, thatthey occupy alraoft the whole half of the year.The Rilheps are not allowed to marry, buttheir common priefts ore Before the time ofPeter the Great, the clergy were poffcffed of23v«ry great and even dangerous powers; butthat prince, by declaring himfelf the hegd ofthe church, reduced their authority within duebounds. Having gained this preat point, he al¬lowed them the full .exercife of their ceremo¬nies, and did not oblige the clergy to am their*beards; one of his fuceeffors, Peter HI. mak¬ing this attempt, it was fuppol'ed to be one ofthe principal caufes of his deitru&ion. In for¬mer time s there was an incredible number ofreligious houfes in Rufctia; but, though thefe are.not entirely abolifhed, they are greatly reduced,and by the prefent regulations,-no male can:be¬come a monk, till upwards of 30, nor any wo¬man a nun until fhe is upwards of 50; andeven not then, without leave of their fuperiors.The religion of ihe conquered provinces wasnot changed by their fub]e£Uon to the Ruffianempire ;fo that there are not only Chriftians ofvarious denominations, but Jews, Pagans, andMahometans to be met with in many parts oftheta provinces, fcome-judicidus attemp s havebeen made to convert the Mahometants by force;but this has only ferved to confirm them morein their infidelity, in 1^65, the Moravians’Society founded a xettlement, namsd Safepta,on the hanks of the river sarpa, which hasfmee become a very large, populots a*d fl«ur-iQling taitn, having been allowed feveral veryditUn juifoed privileges from the RuffiaaCourt.BURNING jopr MOSCOW.The French gave the following accoupt oftt}ic burning of that city: After the great battleroF Mofksva, the French army purfyed the Ruf-jfon i'tmv upon Molco»{,. bv three routes, Mo-feifk, Svehigorod,, and ,Kalouga. They hadfciifcCvon the Sparyyv. Mountain, two wreftsihe eity} fome redoubt*, which they foon'doned.ofeow, before this, was a rich city, filledpahces of all th= nobles of the empire.Ruffi n Governor Roftopchin, wiftted tothis dne city. He had ^rmed 3POQ isale-rs, whcyn he. hadtakep from the dynjeons;!fo fumipoaed together 6oco lateliites, andibuted arms, among them tro# tde arfenal.advanced guard, arriving in the centre of-itVv was received by a. fire of fnufketry,h iffued from the Kremlin; but a few pie->f cannon being opened upon them, difper-he rabble and took poffijiiion of it. Thecomplete anarchy reigned in the city;drunken madmen ran through its different||aart#rs, and every where fet fire t* the*.—-|fbe Governor had caufed all the merchants andjhopkeepers to be carried off, through whofej&ftrumentajlity order might have been ra-cta-miflied. More than 4000 French and Germans(fere arrefted by his orders; ip fiae, hp hadkken the precaution of carrying off the fire-jlpn, with the fire-engines; fo that by the ge-|er«l anarchy which every where prevailed,ais great and fine eity is now dcfolated, and24the flames are ftfll deflroying it. The confla¬gration of this city will throw Ruffian manyyears back. The msmufatfures were juft begin¬ning to flourifli at Mofcow, now they are cora-;pletelv deftroyed.Mofcow is the interpot of Afia an-? of Furope.Her warehoufes were immenfe; and everyhoufe was provifiotied for nine month. It was:only the evening before, and the day of our'entrance, that the danger became known. Wefound in the houie of the miter able Rollopchin,,a paper, with a letter half written. He had fled,without finifliing it, Mofcow, one of the fineft:and richeft cities in the world is now no more.On the 14th September i8iz, the Ruffi n*,fet fire to the Exchange, the Hazier and Hof-pital. The 16th a violent wind arofe, and fpreajthe flames all over the city } five-fixths of thehoufes bein^ of wood, the flames ran with ama¬zing rapidity, it appeared like an ocean of fire,.Churches, of which there is 1600, above a ioowpalaces, and immenfe magazines, have nearlyall fallen a prey to the flames. I he lofs to the;Ruffians is incalculable; the richeft commercial!houfes have been ruined. Nothing was remo¬ved. becaufe the Ruffians thought it impoffibleifor us to reach Mofow.Bonaparte after having over run many hun¬dred miles of this vaft empire, was obliged tareturn with greater preciptation than ever he:entered, with an incalculable lofs of men, horfes,amunition and baggage. His rage was fueh that'he bfew up the Kremlin before he left MofcoWiFINIS,