ANARRATIVEOF THEEXTRAORpiNARY ADVENTU RESOFI FOUR RUSSIAN SAILORS,Who were, cast away on the Desert Islandof East-Spitzbergen.To which is added,THE STORY OF THEKING AND FAIRY RING.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail,By R. Hutchison & Co. Booksellers,No. 10, Saltmarket.ANARRATIVEOF THE; EXTRAORDINARY ADVENTURESFO UR R USSIAN SAILORS,Who were gast away in the desert Island ofEast-Spit zbergen.HE truth of these adventures is suffi¬ciently authenticated. When theseunfortunate sailors first arrived at Arch¬angel, they were examined apart by MrKlinstadt, Chief Auditor of the Admiralityof that city, who minuted down all theparticulars, which exactly correspond witheach account. Mr Le Roy, Proffessor ofHistory in the Imperial Academy, some timeafter sent for two of the men, viz. AlexisHimkof, his godson, to Petersburgh, fromwhose mouths he took the following narra¬tive, which also agreed with Mr Klinstadt’sminutes. The original was published in theGerman language, at Petersburgh, in theyear 1769, and transmitted from thence to'the ingenious Mr Blanks, who, with severalother Members of the royal Society, wereOF3■The Extraordinary, &;c.so well pleased with the account, that theydirected a translation of it to be made into! English.In the year 1743, one Jeremiah Okladm-koff, a'merchant ot Mesen, a town in theprovince of Jugovia, and in the*govermentof Archangel, titted out a vessel, carrying14 men: bhe was destined for Spitzbergen,to be imployed in the whale or seal fishery.For eight successive days after they had sail¬ed, the wind was fair; but on the ninth it| changed; so that instead of getting to thewest of Spitzbergen, the usual place of ren¬dezvous for the Dutch Ships, and those ofOther nations annually employed in thewhale-fishery, they were driven eastward ofthose islands; and, after sofne days theyfound themselves at a small distance fromone of them called East Spitzbergen; by theRussians, Maloy Broun; that is, Little Broun.Having approached this island within almostthree wrests, or two English miles, theirvessel was suddenly surrounded by ice, andthey found themselves in an extremely dan¬gerous situation. In this alarming state acouncil was held; when the Mate, AlexisHimkof, informed them that he recollectedto have heard that some of the people ofMesen, some time before, having formed aresolution of wintering upon this island, hadaccordingly carried from that city timber4 The Extraordinary Adventuresproper for building a hut, and had actuallyerected one at some distance from the shore.This information induced the whole com¬pany to resolve on wintering there, if thehut, as they hoped, still existed; for theyclearly perceived the eminent danger theywere in, and that they must inevitablyperish, if they continued in the ship. They-dispatched therefore four of the crew, insearch of the hut, or any other succour theycould meet with. These were Alexis Him-kof the mate; I wan Himkof, his godson;Stephen Scharapof, and Feodeor Wergin.As the shore on which they were to landwas uninhabited, it was necessary that theyshould make some provision for their expe¬dition. They had almost two miles to tra¬vel over loose bridges of ice, which beingraised by the waves, nnd driven againsteach other by the wind, rendered the wayequally difficult and dangerous: Prudencetherefore forbade their loading themselvestoo much, least being overburthened, theymight sink in betwixt the pieces of ice andperish.Having thus maturely considered the na¬ture of their undertaking, they providedthemselves with a musket, a powder-horn,containing 12 charges of powder, with asmany balls, an axe, a small kettle a bag withabout 20 pounds of flour, a knife, a tinder-'of Four Russian Sailors. 5box and tinder, a bladder filled with tobac-: co, and every man his wooden pipe. Thusaccoutered, these four sailors quickly arriv¬ed on the island, little suspecting the mis¬fortunes that would befal them. They be¬gan with exploring the country; and soondiscovered the hut they were in search of,about an English mile and a half from theshore. It was 30 feet in length, 18 feet inheighth, and as many in breadth. It con¬tained a small anti-chamber, aqout 12 feetbroad, which had two doors, the one toshut it up from the outer air, the other toform a communication with the inner room:This contributed greatly to keep the largerroom warm, when once heated. In ' thelarge room was an earthen stove, construct¬ed in the Russian manner; that is, a kind ofoven, without a chimney, which servedoccasionally either for baking, for heatingthe room, or, as is customary among thethe Russian peasants, in very cold weather,for a place to sleep upon.They rejoiced greatly at having discover-'ed.the hut, which had however sufferedmuch from the weather, it having now beenbuilt a considerable time: Our adventurers,however, conceived to pass the night in it.Early next morning they hastened to theshore, impatient to inform their comradesof their success; and also to procure from6 The E.iiraord'marij Adventures oftheir vessel such provisions, ammunition,and Other necessaries, as might better enablethem to winter on the island —I leave myreaders to figure to themselves the astonish¬ment and agony of mind these poor peoplemust have felt, when, on reaching the placeof their landing, they saw nothing but anopen sea, free from the ice, which, but a daybefore, had covered the ocean. A violentstorm, which had arisen during the night,had certainly been the cause of this disas¬trous event.But they could not tell whether the icewhich had before hemmed in the vessel, a-gitated by the violence of the waves, hadbeen driven against her, and shattered herto pieces; or whether she had been carriedby the current into the main, a circumstancewhich frequently happens in those seas.Whatever accident had befallen the ship,they saw her no more; and, as no tidingswere ever afterwards received of her, it ismost probable that she snnk, and that all onboard of her perished.This melancholy event depriving the un¬happy wretches of all hope of ever beingable to quite the island, they returned tothe hut from whence they had come, full ofhorror and di pair. Their first intentionwas employed, as may eaisily be imagined,in devising means of providing subsistance.qf Four Russian Sailors. 7and for repairing their hut. The twelvecharges of powder, which they had broughtwith them, soon p ocured them as manyrein-deer; the island 'fortunately for them,abounding in these animals.I have before observed, that the hut whichthe sailors were so fortunate as to find, hadsustained some damage, and it was this:there was cracks in many places between theboards of the building, which freely admit¬ted the air. This inconveniency was how¬ever easily remedied, as they had an axe,and the beams were still sound, (for woodin those cold climates continues through alength of years unimpared by worms or de¬cay) so it was easy for them to make theboards join again very tolerably; besides,moss growing in great abundance all overthe island, there was more than sufficient tostop up the crevices, which wooden housesmust always be liable to. Repairs of thiskind cost the unhappy men the lees trouble,for all Russian peasants are known to begood carpenters: they build their ownhouses, and are very expert in handling theaxe. The intense cold, which makes thoseclimates habitable to so few species of ani¬mals, renders them equally unfit for the pro¬duction of vegetables. No species of tree,or even shrub, is found on any of the islandsof Spitzbergcn; a circumstance of the most& 'The Extraordinary Adventuresalarming nature to our sailors. Withoutfire it was impossible to resist the rigour ofthe climate; and, without wood, how wasthat fire to be produced, or supported ?Providence, however, has so ordered it, thatin this particular, the sea supplies the defectsof the land. In wandering along the beach,they collected plenty of wood, which hadbeen driven ashore by the waves; and whichat first consisted of the wrecks of ships, andafterwards of whole trees with their roofs,the produce of some more hospitable, but tothem unknown climate, which the overflow¬ing of rivers, or other accidents, had sent in¬to the ocean.Nothing proved of more essential serviceto these unfortunate men, during the firstyear of their exile, then some boards theyfound upon the beach, having a long ironhook,, some nails of about five or six incheslong, and proportionably thick, and otherbits of old iron fixed in them; the melancho¬ly relics of some vessels cast away in someremote parts. These were thrown' ashoreby the waves at a time when the want ofpowder-gave our men reason to apprehendthat they must fall a prey to hunger, as theyhad nearly consummed those rein-deer theyhad killed. This lucky circumstance wasattended with another equally fortunate:they found, on the shore, the root of a fire-of Four Xussian Sailors. &tree, which nearly approached the figure ofa bo:.v.As necessity has ever been the mother ofinvention, so they soon fashioned this rootto a good bow, by the help of a knife; butstill they wanted a string and arrows. Notknowing how to procure these at present,they resolved upon making a couple of lan¬ces, to defend themselves against the whitebears, by far the most ferocious of their kind,whose attacks they had great reason to dread.Finding they could neither make the headsof their lances, nor of their arrows, withoutthe help of a hammer, they contrived to formthe large iron hook mentioned above intoone, by heating it, and widening a hole ithappened to have about its middle, with thehelp of one of their largest' nails. This re¬ceived the handle and a round button atone end of the hook served at the face ofthe hammer. A large pebble supplied theplace of an anvil, and a couple of rein-deer’shorns made the tongs. By the means ofsuch tools, they made two heads of spears;and after polishing and sharpening them • onstones, they tied them as fast as possible withthongs made of rein-deer skins, to sticksabout the thickness of a man’s arm, which• they got from some branches of trees thathad been cast on shore. This equipped withspears, they resolved to attack a white bear;10 The Extraordinary Adventuresand, and alter a most dangerous encounter,they kilied the formidable creature, andthereby made a new supply of provisions.The flesh of this animal they relished exceed¬ingly, as they thought it much resembled,fteef in taste and flavour. The tendons theyjjayv with much pleasure could, with little orbo trouble, be divided into filaments, ofwhat fineness they thought fit. This per¬haps was the most fortunate discovery thesemen could have nude; [or, besides other ad¬vantages, they were hereby furnished with *strings for their bow.The success of "our unfortunate islandersin making the spear a, and the use these prov¬ed of, encouraged them them to proceed,and to forge some pieces of iron into headsof arrows of the same shape, though some¬what smaller in size than the spears abovementioned. Having ground and sharpenedthese like the former, they tied them, withthe sinews of the white bears, to pieces of fir;to which, by the help of fine threads of thesame, they fastened feathers of sea fowl; andthus became possessed of a compleat bow andarrows. Their ingenuity in this respect, wascrowned with-success far beyond their ex-pectaion; for, during the time of their con¬tinuance upon t he island, they, with thesearrows, killed no lese than two hundred andfifty rein-deer, besides a great number ofIIof Four Russian Sailors.blue and white foxes. The flesh of these_ animals served them also for food and theirskins for clothing, and other necessary pre¬servatives against the intense coldness of aclimate so near the pole.They killed, however, only ten whitebears in all, and that not without the utmostdanger; for these animals, being prodigious¬ly strong, defending; themselves with asto¬nishing vigour and fury. The first our menattacked designedly; the other nine theyslew in defending themselves from their as¬saults; for some of these creatures even ven¬tured to enter the outer room of the hut, inorder to devour them. It is true, that allthe bears did not shew (if it may be allowedthe expression) equal intrepidity; either ow¬ing to some being less pressed by hunger, orto their being by nature less carnivorous thanthe others; for some of them, which enteredthe hut, immediately betook themselves toflight on the first attempt of the sailors todrive them away. A repetition, however ofthese ferocious attacks, threw the poor meninto great terror and anxiety, as they were inalmost a perpetual danger ot being devoured.I he three different kinds of animals above-mentioned, viz. the rein deer, the blue andwhite foxes, and the white bears, were theonly food these wretched mariners tasted3 2 The Extraordinary Adventuresduring their continuance in this drearyabode.In their excursions through the island,they had met with slimy loam or a kind ofclay, nearly in the middle of it. Out of tinsthey found means to form an utensil whichmight serve for a lamp; and they proposedto keep it constantly burning, with the fatof the animals they ^hould kill. This wascertainly the most rational scheme theycould have thought of, for to be without alight, in a climate where, during winter,darkness reigns for several months together^would have added much to their other cala¬mities. Having therefore fashioned a kindof lamp, they filled it with rein-deer's fat, andstuck in it some twisted linen, shaped into awick. But they, had the mortification to find,that, as soon as the fat melted, it not onlysoaked into the clay, but fairly ran throughit on all sides. The thing therefore was todevise some means for preventing this incon-veniency, not arising from cracks, but fromthe substance of which the lamp was madebeing too porous. They made therefore anew one, dried it thoroughly in the air, thenheated it red-hot, and afterwards quenched itin there kittle, wherein they had boiled aquantity of flour down to the consistence ofthin starch. The lamp being thus dsied andfilled with melted fat, they now found, to13of Four Russian Sailors.their great joy, it did not leak. But forgreater security, they dipped linen rags intheir paste, and with them covered all itsoutside. Succeeding in this attempt, theyimmediately made another lamp, for fear ofan accident, that in alt events they might notbe destitute of light; and when they had doneso much, they thought proper to save theremainder of their flour for similar purposes.As they had carefully collected whateverhappened to be cast on shore to supply themwith fuel, they had found amongst thewrecks of vessels some cordage, and a smallquantity of oakum, (a kind of hemp usedfor calking ships) which served them tomake wicks for their lamp When thesestores began to fail, iheir shirts and theirdrawers (which are worn by almost allRussian peasants) were empoyed to makegood the deficiency. By these means theykept their lamp burniug without intermis¬sion, from the day they first made it (awork they set about soon after their arrivalon the island) until that of their embarkationfor their native couutry.The necessity of converting the most es¬sential parts of their clothing, snch as theirshirts and drawers, to the use above specifi¬ed, exposed them the more to the rigour ofthe climate. They also found themselves inwant of shoes, boots and other articles of14 The 'Extraordinary Adventuresdress; and, as winter wras approaching, theywere^ain obliged to have recourse to thatingenuity w'hich necessity suggests, andwhich seldom, fails in the trying hour ofdistress.They had skins of rein-deer and foxes inplenty, that had hitherto served them forbedding, and which they now thought ofemploying in some more essential service; butthe question was, how to tan them. Afterdeliberating on this subject, they took to thefollowing method; they soaked the skins forseveral days in fresh water, till they could pulloff the hair pretty easily; they then rubbedthe wet leather with their hands till it wasnearly dry, when they spread some meltedrein-deer fat over it, and again rubbed itwell. By this process the leather becamesoft, pliant and suple, proper for answeringevery purpose they wanted it for. Thoseskins which they designed for furs they on¬ly soaked for one day, to prepare them forbeing wrought, and then proceeded in themanner before mentioned except only thatthey did not remove the hair. Thus theysoon provided themselves with the necessarymat rials for all the part of dress theywanted.They made a curious needle out of a pieceof wire; and the sinew's of the bear and rein-15of four Russian Sailors.deer, which they split into several threads,served them to sew with.Excepting the uneasiness which generallyaccompanies an involuntary solitude, thesepeople, having this by their ingenuity so farovercome their wants, might have had reasonto be contented with what Providence haddone for them in their distressful situation.But that melancholy reliection, to whicheach of these forlorn persons could not helpgiving way, that perhaps he might survivehis companions, and then perish for want ofsubsistence, or become a prey to the wildbeasts, incessantly disturbed their minds.The mate, Alexis Himkof, more particularlysuffered; who, having left a wrife and threechildren behind, sorely repined at his beingseparated from them: they were as he toldme constantly in his mind, and the thoughtof never more seeing them made him veryunhappy.When our four mariners had passed near-ly six years in this dismal place, FeederWeregin, who all along had been in a lan¬guid condition, died, after having, in the lat¬ter part of his life, suffered most excruciat¬ing pains. Tho’ they were thus freed fromthe trouble of attending him, and the griefof being witnesses to his misery, without be¬ing able to afford him any relief, yet hisdeath affected them not a little; they saw16 The Extraordinary Adventures.their number lessened, and every one .wish Jed to be the first that should follow him..As he died in winter, they dug a grave inthe snow as deep as they could, in which theylaid the corpse, and then covered it to the-best of their power, that the white bearsmight not get at it.Now, at the time when the melancholyreflections occasioned by the death of theircomrade were fresh, in their minds, and eachexpected to pay this last duty to the remainingcompanions of his misfortunes, or to receiveit from them, they unexpectedly got sight ofa Russian ship.. This happened on the 15thof August, 1749'.The vessel belonging to a trader, of thesect called by its adherents Stara Vieva, thatis, the Old Faith, who had come with it toArchangel, proposing it shonld winter inNova Zernbla: but, fortunately for our poorexiles, Mr. Vernezobre, Director of thewhale-fishery, proposed to the merchant tolet his vessel winter at West-Spitzbergen;which he at last, after many objections^agreed to.The contrary winds they met with, ontheir passage, made it impossible for them toreach the place of their destination.- Thevessel was driven towards East-Spitbergen,directly opposite to the residence of our ma¬riners; who, as soon as they perceived her,J of Four'Russian Sailors. 17•j hastened to light fires upon the hi'Is nearestI their habitations, and then ran to the beach,, waving a flag, made of a rein-deer’s hide,! fastened to a pole. The people on board,: seeing these signals, concluded that their1 were men on the island who implored’theirassistance, and therefore came to an anchornear the shore. It would be in vain to at¬tempt describing the joy of these people, atseeing the moment of their deliverence sonear. They soon agreed with the master ofthe ship to work for him on the voyage,and to pay him eighty rubels on their arri¬val, for taking them on board, with all theirriches; which consisted in fifty pud, or twothousand pound weight of rein-deer fat, in■ many hides of these animals; and skins ofi the blue and white foxes; together withthose of the ten white bears they had killed.They took care not to forget their bow andarrows, their spears, their knife and axe,which were almost worn out, their awls,and their needles, which they kept carefullyin a bone-box, very ingeniously made withtheir knife only; and in short, every thingthey were possesed of.Our adventurers arrived safe at Arch¬angel on the 28th of September, 1749,having spent six years and three months intheir rueful solitude.18 The Extraordinary Adventures, §c.The moment of their landing was nearly-proving fatal to the loving and beloved wifeof Alexis Rimkof, who being present whenthe vessel came in to port, immediately knewher husband, and ran with so much eager¬ness to his emnraces, that she slipped intothe water, and very narrowly escaped beingdrowned.All three on their arrival, were strong andhealthy; but, having lived so long withoutbread, they could not reconcile themselvesto the use of it, and complained that it filledthem with wind. Nor could they bear anyspirituous liquors, and therefore drank no¬thing but water.THE STORYOF THEKING AND FAIRY RING.THERE was a king, whose name wasAlferute; feared by all his neighbours,and loved by all his subjects. He was wise,good, just, and valiant, and deficient in noquality requisite in a great prince. A fairycame to him one day, and told him that heISKing and Fairy Ring.would soon find himself plunged into greatdifiiculties, if he did not make use of thering which she then put on his finger. Whenhe turned the stone of the ring to the insideof his hand, he became invisible; and whenhe turned the diamond outward, he becamevisible again.He was mightily pleased with the present,and soon grewsensibleof the inestimablevalueof it,. When he suspected any one of his su b-jects, he went into that man’s house and clo¬set, with his diamond turned inward, andheard and saw all the secrets of the family,without being perceived. When he mistrust¬ed the designs of any neighbouring potentate,he would take a long journey unaccompani¬ed, to be present in his most private counsels,and learn every thing, without the fear ofbeing discovered. By this means, he easilyprevented every intention to his prejudice;he frustrated several conspiracies formed a-gainst his person, and disconcerted all themeasures of his enemies for his overthrow.Nevertheless, he was not thoroughly satis¬fied %vith his ring; and he requested of thefairy the power of conveying himself, in aninstant, from one country to another, that hemight make a more convenient and ready useof the enchanted ring. The fairy replied,“ You ask too much; let me conjure you notto covet a power, which I foresee will one20King and Fairy liing.day be the cause of your misery, though theparticular manner thereof be concealed fromme.” The king would not listen to her in¬treaties, but still urged his request- “ Sincethen, you will have it so,” says she, “ I mustnecessarily grant you a favour of which youwill dearly repent.” Hereupon she chafedhis shoulders with a fragrant liquor, whenimmediately he perceived little wings shoot¬ing at his back. These little wings were notdiscernable under his habit; and when he hada mind to fly, he needed only to touch themwith his hand, and they would spread so asto bear him through the air swifter than aneagle. When he had no farther occasionfor his wings, with a touch they shrunk a-gain to a small size, as to lie so concealed un¬der his garment.By this magic, Alferute was able to trans¬late himself, in a few moments, wherever hepleased. He knew every thing, and no mancould conceive how he came by his intelli¬gence; for he would often, retire into his clo¬set, and pretend to be shut up there the•whole day, with strict orders not to be dis¬turbed; then making himself invisible withhis ring, he would enlarge his wings with atouch, and traverse vast countries. By thispower he entered into very extraordinarywars, and never failed to triumph. But, ashe continually saw into the secrets of men.21King and Faby King.Jie discovered so much wickedness and. dissi¬mulation, that he could no longer place con-iidence in any man, The more redoubtedind powerful he grew, the less he was be-oved; and he found, that even they to whomaehad been most bountiful, had no gratitudeiOr affection toward him.r In this disconsolate condition, he resolved0 search through the wide world, till he'bund a woman complete in beauty snd allpood qualities, willing to be his wife; one whovould love him, and study to make himlappy. Long did he search in vain; and as'le saw all without being seen, he discoveredihe hidden wiles and failings of the sex. Herisked all the courts, where he found theadies insincere, fond of admirers, and so en-imoured with their own persons, that theirtearts veere not capable of entertaining anyrue love for a husband. He went likewisento all the private families; he found onewas of an inconstant, volatile disposition; an¬other was cunning and artful; a third haugh-:y; a fourth capricious; almost all faithless,1 vain, and full of idolatry to their owni :harms., Under these disappointments, he resolved{i'o carry his inquiry through the lowest con¬ditions of life. Whereupon, at last he foundhe daughter of a poor labourer, fair as the221King and Fairy Ring.brightest morning, but simple and ingenuousin all her beauty, which she disregarded,!and which, in reality, was the least of hepperfections; for she had an understandingand a virtue, which outshone all the gracesof her person. All the youth of her neigh¬bourhood were impatient to see her, andmore impatient, after they had seen her, toobtain her in marriage; none doubting ofbeing completely happy with such a wife.King Alferute beheld her, and he lovedher. He demanded her of the father, whowas transported with the thoughts of hisdaughter becoming a great queen. Clarinda(so she was called) when from her father'shut into a magnificent palace, where she wasreceived by a numerous court. She was notdazzled, nor disconcerted, at the suddenchange; she preceived her simplicity, hermodesty, her virtue, and forgot not the placeof her birth, when she w^as in the height ofher glory. The king’s affection for her in¬creased daily, and he believed he should atlast arfive at perfect happiness; neither washe already far from it, so much did he beginto confide in the goodness of his queen. Heoften rendered himself invisible to observeher, and to surprise her; but he never dis¬covered any thing in her that was not wor¬thy of his admiration. So that now there23King and Fairy Ring.vas but a very small remainder of jealousynd distrust blended with his love.The fairy who had foretold the fatal con-equences of his last request, came so ofteno warn him, that he thought her importuni-\y troublesome. Therefore he gave orders,hat she should no longer be admitted into,he palace, and enjoined the queen not toeceive her visits for the future. The queenromised to obey his commands, but notdthout much unwillingness, because shelov-d this good fairy.It happened one day, when the king wasipon a progress, that the fairy, desirous toiistruct the queen in futurity, entered herjpartment in the appearance of a young offi-er, and immediately declared, in a whisper,/ho she was; whereupon the queen embracedler with tenderness. The king, who wasuen invisible, perceivd it, and was instant-f fired with jealousy. He drew his sword,nd pierced the queen, who fell expiring intois arms. In that moment the fairy resumeder true shape, wher :upon the king knewpr, and was convinced of the queen’s inno-::nce. Then would he have killed himself,Ut the fairy with-held his hand, and strove• comfort him; when the queen, breathingjit her last words, said, “ Though I die byour hands, I die wholly yours.**24lung and. Fvhy Ring.Too late, now Alferute cursed his folly,that put him upon wresting a boon from thefairy, which proved his misery. He return¬ed the ring, and desired his wings might bttaken fromihim. The remaining days of hislife he passed in bitterness and grief, know-ing no other consolation but to weep perpe¬tually over Clarinda’s tomb.This tale'evinces the folly of taking any matter intoo jealous a view; and that, by too easy viewing thewrong road, we involve ourselves in dangers andmisfortmte.ftFIN IS.-.'s