Drj1I*?&tfkzD<1?5fi.i?Dw<.w»**■-QO%1SW w w ^ w w -ur ■ur t+.r w ^ak w W tiK t+r ^ Tir w tat wTHELIFE AND TRANSACTIONSMRS. JANE SHOREConcubine to King Edward IVth.ADVENTURE OFALLAN BARCLAY,A Private Soldier in the ■■ Regiment.-LOVE, AMDTOilTUE.!5.O£§rjociciClClClClCloClClClCl£>GLASGOW:PKINTED FOR THE BOOKSEELERS.(^o'f SCOTLAND*')nooit*rQQDf§0gr3Mw£1CloCljjySClClAM*wTf.+V**as--oKCN ■Ci1aClClwClClClCl.Clt4.“>PriTHELIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOFMRS. JANE SHORE.Mrs. Jane Shore was daughter to Mr. Thomas Win-stead, a citizen of good repute, who lived in Cheapside,by trade a mercer. She being the only child of herparents, was brought up with all the care and tendernessimaginable, not wanting any education that was properfor her ; and her natural temper, which was very airy,being joined to her education, and that degree of pride,which, as it is natural, some make necessary for thefemale sex, helped to set her off to the best hdvantage.Fine feathers always make fine birds, and if the birds arefine without them, doubtless they make them doubly so.This lovely woman was the delight of her father, whoclothed her richly, adorning her with jewels ; and, histrade lying among the court ladies, he often carried herwith him to shew her the pastimes which were madefrequently there, to divert the queen, &c. which gaveher an early longing after a greater gentility than shehad ever yet attained to, or her city breeding was fit toproduce.When she grew to the age of fifteen, her competentstock of beauty and good carriage, caused many to fallin love with her, and some great lords fixed their eyesupon her, to get her for a mistress, which her fatherperceiving, sent her to his sister at Northampton, whereshe remained about a year, till he supposed the inquiryafter her wTas over, and that she might return withoutany hazard of being any further tempted to lewdness :yet she was no sooner returned, than a plot was laidone night to have her carried away by Lord Ha-stings,!who, after the death of King Edward, took her for hisconcubine, as will appear in the close of this history.4But, the maiil he had bribed with gold to get her abroad,repenting of such treachery to her master, gave timelynotice, and so prevented it.Her father perceiving, that unless he took somespeedy course, her great stock of beauty would be herruin, resolved to marry her, so that havjng surrenderedher virginity, and being in the arms of an husband, thosethat sought to crop her virgin rose, would not regardher, but give over their pursuits.And, among those that courted, and earnestly soughther in way of marriage, was one Matthew Shore, arich goldsmith in Lombard-street, whom her fatherpitched upon as a fit husband : and acquainted his fairdaughter with his intention to marry her to him, butshe appeared yyry averse to it, alleging sometimes dis¬proportion of years, he being above thirty ; at othertimes, his being disfigured with the small pox, and manyother exceptions she made. However, her father’spositive commands, and the rich presents her lover madeher', won her consent, or seemingly she yielded to thematch,, find so married they were in great pomp ; manyof the court, as well as,the city, being invited to thewedding, which was kept with great feasting, manydays.The wedding being over, and the bridegroom havingenjoyed his charming bride, grew exceedingly fond ofher, evep to dottage, which sickened and palled her lovetowards ; and lie perceiving it, strove to wind himselfthe, more into her affections ; and to this end he clothedher very richly, and adorned her with jewels, denyingher nothing she desired, or that he thought would tendto her satisfaction or delight.It was not lon£ before Lord Hastings heard the un-welcome tidings, that Ids fairest Jane was married ;which, however, did not make him give over his pur¬pose of er joying her fair body ; so that often he resortedto see her, treating her at home, and her husbandabroad ; often inviting them both to court; and tookhis opportunities to pour out many amorous discourses.endeavouring by all means to make her defile the mar¬riage-bed. And one time, intending to try his utmostefforts, he threw her on a bed when they were alone ;but she got from him, and ran to her husband, tellinghim plainly how rude Lord Hastings had been ; whichangering Shore, he modestly rebuked him, and forbadehim his house, which made him go away in great heat,but resolving to be revenged.This Lord, being Chamberlain to King Edward IV.having frequently his ear; and, finding he was muchinclined to fine women, though he was married to LadyElizabeth Grey, took an opportunity to tell him of JaneShore’s beauty, extolling her wit above her features,which made the King hearken to this new adventure,and he resolved to go to Shore’s shop in disguise to seeher.The King, whose thoughts still ran on his intendedMistress, delayed not long to pay her a visit; and inorder to it, attired himself like a merchant, and with¬drew privately from court, being only attended by hispage : and coming into Shore’s shop, then the richest inall Lombard-street, he found the good man employed inhis business ; and, waiting till he was a little at leisure,he desired to see some plate, which being shewn him,he, under pretence of carrying it beyond seas, soonagreed for a considerable quantity : but yet no wife ap¬peared, which made him delay the time with discourse,of what was then transacting in England and placesabroad, where he said he had travelled.This delighted Shore mightily, so that he ordered hisman to fetch up a bottle of wine, and they drank merrily,the good man beginning with a health to the king, whichthe King pledged him in. So when some other healthshad passed, the King asked, if there was not a mistressto so fair a house ? otherwise, he could help him to awife, rich, young, and beautiful.For this offer Shore thanked him, but told him, hewas already married to such a one as he described, whomhe loved entirely. This discourse made the king more(iiltMimis to see her ere he departed, and asked if he couldnot have a tight of her. Shore, little thinking whatwas intended for his ruin, and proud of his wife’s beauty,toon yielded to his request, and ordered her to be caihddown, who came attired in a sky-coloured morninggown, flower ed with gold, embroidered with pearls andspangles, her head attired with curious lace, under whichher hair flowed wantonly : and her blushes made herappear still more beautiful.The King rro sooner saw her, but he stepped forthand saluted her coral lifts, impressing on them manybalmy kisses. Then she, by her husband’s desire satdown, and the king drank to her, she pledged him, andpassed it to her husband. Then much discourse ensued,in which she appeared so witty, that the King resolvedto have her at any rate, and so presented her with somecurious tilings. He paid for his piate, which the goodman would have sent home, but he refused it, orderinglas page to carry it; and with many kisses, he tookleave of the charming fair one for that time.The king had no sooner departed, but Jane asked herhusband who that gentleman was, that had been soliberal to her ? lie told her, he said he was a merchant,but he knew him not. Ah ! said she, I rather takehim for some Lord in disguise ; therefore dear husband,if he should come again, tell him that I am sick, or anything you can feign to disappoint him.Sir Shore was greatly pleased at her conduct, andmore discourse had passed, but people coming into theshop about business, she retired.The King soon arrived at court, where he had beenmissed by his nobles, soon changed his apparel, and cameamongst them with a very cheerful countenance ; andthough others were ignorant, Hastings well perceivedwhere he had been, and the satisfaction he had received ;and no sooner were they in private, but the King said,well Hastings, thou hast very good judgment in linewomen : l have seen Shore's wife, and she excels thepraises you gave her ; 1 like her well, and must enjoylier, tut how must I bring it about ? To court her inher husband’s presence, as a private person, I shall heserved as you was ; and to do it as a King, will looktoo low for me,—1 will not force her from his arms, forthat would cause a murmuring among my subjects, whowould fear the like by their wives and daughters ; butI must have her, and with her own consent.Hastings smiling, immediately said, take no care, forthis shall be easy to your Majesty : there is one MrsBlague, your lace-woman, has a house near Shore’s,and is very intimate with his wife. This woman is veryfond of money, to such a degree, that money wouldmake her do any thing. Hy' will I engage to do thismatter, and trust me, she will bring it to pass to yoursatisfaction. The King liked this device, and it wasagr eed that lie should see her at this Mrs Blague’s, andhave freedom to court her, but she should not know thathe was the king, till he thought proper to have it dis¬covered.Lord Hastings was not idle in promoting his master’shappiness, but, with gifts and large promises, soon madethe lace-woman pliable, so that many meetings weremade at her house, the King coming in disguise as herfriend ; and, though Mrs Blague often left them alone,and the King courted her with all his rhetoric, yet sheappeared averse to his love, and often blamed him sharplyfor persuading her to defile her husband’s bed ; and thenshe would chide Mrs. Blague for suffering such a r udeman to come to her house, telling her the dr sign lie hadon her chastity ; she seemed very surprised at it, butiritreated her to be at ease, for she would not sillier himto come there any more.This pacified her, but the plot was still deeper laidfor her ruin, and at Christmas time she got leave of MrShore for his wife to accompany her to the Court, to seethe ball there, to which he consented with some un¬willingness. And soon after she was introduced, a manof very comely port entered, with a mask on ; and Mrs.Shore heard the ladies whisper, 1 That’s the King,§who looking round through his mask, fixed his eyesupon her, and immediately stepping to her seat, tookher out to dance along with him. At this she blushed,but not to be unmannerly, she complied ; and the dancebeing ended, he took her to a single light, and pullingoff his mask to salute her, she perceived it was the sameman whom she had seen at her own shop, and at MrsBlague’s house ; and putting a letter into her hand heretired. She then coming to Mrs Blague, desired togo home ; to this she consented, and then read the let¬ter, which was to this purpose:My Lovely Jane,‘ Your beauty has enthralled my heart,i ’Tis a King sues ; you will be kind to him, and by a line tellhim so to his comfort.’When she read the letter, she left Mrs Blague ab¬ruptly, judging that she had a hand in the matter.All this night the fair Jane was restless: her hus¬band enquired the cause, but could not learn it. Assoon as she got up, she went to Mrs Blague, to consultwhat she must do in this strait, well knowing the King’shumour.Mrs Blague, seeing her thus pensive, said, ‘ Come,my dear, you must not be coy, nor deny the King's re¬quest. You will glitter so near a throne, and enjoy agallant bed-fellow. I find he is resolved to have youfor a mistress, and therefore it is best for you willinglyto submit to him.’At this discourse she trembled, yet considering, fromthe many attempts her beauty had caused, that it wasnot made to be enjoyed by one, in a fatal hour she con¬sented ; and instead of writing an answer to the King’sletter, it was agreed that that very night she shouldtake her apparel, and put herself into the hands of theKing. This being concluded, Mrs Blague sent theKing notice, who sent a chariot for them ; and in themean time her clothes were conveyed away to MrsBlague’s. However, she supped with her husband.9 . .. 1/0,vhen on a sudden s6mebody came on a feigned errand,and said, her mother was taken ill, and desired to speakwith her. He would have gone with her, but she putit off; and giving him the last kiss he ever was to re¬ceive from her, she left him, and coming where the]chariot stood ready, she and Mrs Blague got into it,|and were conveyed to the King’s secret apartment, |where they found him in his closet. He welcomed\them, but it being late, Mrs Blague departed, and they .;went to bed.Mr Shore sitting up late, and his wife not returning,1,was very much troubled, and went to his mother-in-law’s, but they had not seen her, nor was her motherill, so that her absence troubled the whole family. Thenext day was spent in seeking for her amongst her rela¬tions and friends, but found her not. Mrs Blague pro¬tested she had not seen her, and dropped some dis¬sembling tears, so that her husband was almost distract¬ed, and at last concluded, that she was taken away bysome courtier ; and, in three days after, a lady informedthem that she was with the King. This added moreto their grief; they knew not what course to take ; andthey knew if they went to cross the King it would betheir ruin.They made inquiry, indeed, if it was her voluntaryact, and finding it was, and she quite unwilling to leaveher new lover, they left all hope of recovering her, sothat Mr Shore growing melancholy, sold off all he had,and went abroad ; but having spent his fortune, he re¬turned in a poor condition, and practised clipping andtiling gold coin to maintain himself; for which he suf¬fered death in the latter end of K. Henry VIII.’s reign,Jane Shore having rendered up her chastity to theKing, pleased with the glittering of a court, and endear¬ed by a monarch’s love, was admired by the vulgar, to¬wards whom she behaved in a most courteous manner.Her power was so great with the King, that whenhis courtiers durst not intercede for the poor and miser¬able that lay under his displeasure, she, with her wit,10: would so abate his anger, that she saved the lives overy many, both poor and rich. And though she couldin a manner do all with him, yet it was never knownshe used her inliuence to the prejudice of any. Andboth in London, and the progresses she made in thecountry, she would cause poor people to be sought for,and relieve their necessities, inducing and persuadingothers, who expected any good offices from the Kingby her means, to do the same, never selling her favours ;and by her ready wit she so baffled the court ladies, whoenvied her aspiring, that they found themselves unableto repartee. And though the King had another mis¬tress before her, namely Lady Bessy, yet he preferredour heroine much above her, and would often say, Ihave two mistresses, of quite different tempers, one themost religious, and the other the merriest in England :and indeed she was had in great favour all the reign ofthe King, having crowds of petitioners waiting at herchamber door, or at the chariot side, when she was toride abroad, whose suits, to the utmost of her power,she preferred. As for Mrs Blague, who least deservedof her, she procured of the King a stately house andmanor, worth £280 a year. The Romish priests muchspited her, because she sheltered many from their rageand fury, after they had burned John Huss for anheretic.As no worldly pomp nor greatness is of long continu¬ance, so now her glory was ended, and her days of in¬expressible misery began ; for, the King dying at West¬minster, in the fortieth year of his reign, no sooner washe buried in the chapel of his own founding, at Windsor,but Crook-backed Richard, bis brother, who murderedHenry VI. and Prince Henry his son, aspiring to thethrone, though Edward had left two sons behind him,viz. Edward and Richard, and several daughters, alllawfully begotten with the Queen, he quarrelled withLord Hastings, (who, after the death of the King, hadtaken Jane Shore for his concubine, as now free) be¬cause he would not assist him in Lis wicked project, ofmaking away with his two nephews, whom ho after¬wards caused to be murdered in the Tower, ailod- 'n^-that tlie Queen and Shore’s wife ft fid bewitched hiiii,.shewing his withered arm, which all knew7 had been sofrom his cradle ; and, that lord thinking to excuse them,said, ‘if they had done so, they ought to be pupisheu.’Richard furiously replied, ‘ Thoti traitor, dost thouserve me with its ? I say, it is a truth very well knownto thee, that they have done so, and that 1 will makegood on thy body ; therefore I anest thee. Lord Hast¬ings, for high treason.’ And, soon after, he caused Irishead to be cut off in the Tower.Jane Shore had no sooner notice of the death of LordHastings, her paramour, but she perceived a storm wasfalling on her own head, therefore she thought it neces¬sary to provide in time, and so she carried her jewels toher old confident, Mrs Blague, entreating her to concealthem for her; but she, like a faithless woman, whenJane came and asked for them, not only denied them,but when, in the greatest need, she came, to crave almsof her, she thrust her out of doors, threatening to haveher whipped for her impudence.Richard, by means aforesaid, having got to thecrown, and to make himself seem fair by others sins,though he was a monster by nature, publicly declaringbis mother to be a whore, his brother and his cluklreuto be bastards; caused his queen to be pois'oned, andwould have wedded his niece. He ordered our JaneShore to he apprehended, stripped of all she had, and dopenance, by several times walking in a white sheet, andthen walk bare-footed and bare-headed in her shift" be¬fore the procession, with a cross and wax taper in her ,nand, through Cheapside, wrhich she did, looking solovely in her blushes, that many a one pitied her; he !also stripped all her friends and relations of whateverthey had, pretending they had got it all by her meansfrom the Crown in King Edward’s reign ; which, withthe disgrace their only daughter was fallen into, causedher parent’s death.1 . 12i Riehaii], not content with this, put out a severe pro-) clamation to this effect: That on the pain of death andconfiscation of goods, no one should harbour her in theirhouses, nor relieve her with food or raiment. So thatshe went wandering up and down to find her food uponthe bushes, and on the dunghills, where some friendsshe had raised would throw bones with more meat thanordinary, and crusts of stale bread, in the places whereshe haunted. A baker, who had been condemned todie for a riot in King Edward’s reign, and saved by hermeans, in gratitude for her kindness, would trundle apenny loaf after her ; which she thankfully received,and blessed him with tears in her eyes ; but some mali¬cious neighbour informing against him, he was taken upand hanged for disobeying King Richard’s proclamation,which so terrified others, that they durst not relieve herwith any thing; so that, in miserable rags, almostnaked, she went about a most shocking spectacle,wringing her hands, and bemoaning her unhappy fate.Thus she continued till the battle of Bos worth-field,where Richard was slain by Henry, Earl of Richmond,who succeeded him by the name of Henry the VII., inwhich reign she hoped for better days ; but fortune rais¬ed her another adversary, for he married Elizabeth,eldest daughter of Edward IV. and King Edward’sQueen, who mortally hated her, then bearing a greatsway, another proclamation was issued to the same ef¬fect : and so she wandered up anil down, in ns poor andmiserable a condition as before, till growing old, shefinished her life in a ditch, which was from thence calicoShore’s Ditch, adjoining Biehopsgate-street.Thus you may see the rise and fall of this once state¬ly, and then unhappy woman, with whose dying lamen¬tation I shall conclude.THE DYING LAMENTATIONoMRS JANE SHORE.Good PeopleThough, by the rigour of the law you are forbidden| to give me any relief, yet you may pity my unhappystate, for the Scripture saith, That to the miseralle pityshould he shewn. I am now putting a period to a mis¬erable life ; a life that I have been long weary of. Norwould I desire to live in the splendour, pomp, and gloryof Edward’s court. No, I am happier now on thedung-hill, than ever I was in his arms. For, oh ! itwas an adulterous bed indeed. Oh wretch ! that KingEdward ! that ever I was betrayed by him ! Whatfloods of sorrow have my sins occasioned ? Oh ! learnfrom me good people, to beware of vain delights ; thoughthey promise fair, they leave bitter stings behind them.Alas ! you know my punishment is grievous in thisworld, and so it is, for 1 have endured a thousand deathsin one ; but now, my dying moments are come, I re¬joice. Sincere repentance has secured my happinessabove. But O, where repentance is not given, whatseas of torment rack the soul ! 0 happy dung-hill, howdo I embrace thee ! From thee my pardoned soul shallsoar to heaven, though here I leave this filthy carcase.O that the name of Shore may be an antidote, tostop the poisonous and foul contagion of raging lust forever.ALLAN BARCLAYAmong those soldiers who survived the battle o.Waterloo, was a private belonging to the — regimentof foot, of the name of Allan Barclay. He was a nativeof Ayr, and had received an education calculated for ahigher rank in life than the one he held. His parents,indeed, were respectable burghers of that respectabletown ; and Allan, with some little caution and persever¬ance, might have succeeded them in their quiet and easypath, had not a restless and rambling turn of mind madehim dissatisfied with all around—occasioned endless dis¬cords at home—and brought him into a thousand pettyscrapes, until at last, in a youthful frolic or passion, heenlisted into the regiment above-mentioned, and crossedthe British channel along with the troops, before hisparents were apprized of the circumstance.Although the battle of Waterloo struck a death-blowto the hopes of the Bonapartists, it was judged neces¬sary to the peace of France, that the victorious armiesshould be quartered throughout the kingdom until itsagitation should subside: and those soldiers, therefore, twho had survived the conflict, had not the satisfactionof witnessing, in their own country, the burst of en¬thusiasm that followed the news of their success, 01 o. .returning home while home rung with their deeds.Allan Barclay was one of the few who had escaped thebattle unhurt, and it was his fate to be billeted in asmall cottage at a considerable distance from Paris.The only inmates of the cottage were an elderly womanand her daughter. Dame Clerville, the name of thewoman, was the widow of one who had been killedwhile serving Bonaparte about the eommeneement of his15career ; and two sons had shared a fate somewhat simi¬lar—the elder having been killed in Spain, and theyounger having been taken prisoner, with many othersin the expedition to Moscow, and thence conveyed tothe wilds of Siberia, to labour there, with little hope ofrelease. The daughter, Mariette, therefore, was allthat remained to comfort the widowed mother.At the time Barclay took up his residence in thehouse of the widow, Mariette was just beginning toopen into a beautiful and interesting girl. Her age wasonly thirteen, although her stature, and sometimes thelook of her eye, seemed to belong to maturer years.She had generally, however, the appearance of the girl;and it was only occasionally, when her spiiits were ex-ciied, that the spectator could look upon her in anyother light. When our soldier first introduced himselflie had every reason to believe that he was an unwelcomeand disagreeable intruder. The circumstances, that hebelonged to the enemy under which a husband and ason—a father and a brother—bad suffered, and that,independent of this, he would be a burden upon themfor several weeks, were sufficient to sour the kindesthearts, and render bis reception cold and repulsive. Buthe conducted himself with such affability and good grace,that the widow and her daughter soon began to hold himin esteem—to love his company—and at length to findthat lie added much to their social enjoyment. So soon,i indeed, did he gain their affections, that at the expira-i tion of the billet, when he found that thenceforth hei must provide other quarters from his daily pay, he wasi prevailed upon to continue his abode in the cottage, in, the character of a lodger.There was at the time nothing to employ the Britishi soldiery in France ; and Allan, therefore, became quite^domesticated in the cottage. When the weather per-jimitted, he most commonly worked during the day in a((little plot of ground which surrounded and belonged toUtlie house ; ard in the evening he employed himself in'teaching young Mariette the English language, and in16talking of his native country, to whose blue mountainshis mind was ever anon reverting.—And time passedthus delightfully on, and every day linked him closerarid closer, with the little family. The affectionate oldwoman looked upon him as filling up the place of heryoungest and dearest son; and Mariette, in her girlishenthusiasm loved him better than a brother.But the life of a soldier is, of all others, the mostchangeable ; and, although not unexpectedly, the orderscame abruptly, that he must leave the gay fields ofFrance, and embark for his native land. Anxious ashe was to see the friends and the scenes to which hehad been so long a stranger, it was not without bitterfeelings that he left the cottage where he had spent twoyears of quiet enjoyment. Now did the widow and thedaughter feel his departure less severely. It was tothem like another family bereavement. The old womanhung upon his neck and sobbed, while Mariette stoodlike a beautiful statue, gazing stedfastly at him througheyes from which the big tears were incessantly trickling.—“You have been,” cried the afflicted widow, “athird son to me—you have filled the place of Julian—you have charmed away my bereavements; and mustyou leave me too ? Oh it brings all my sorrows back :upon me. Ther e is no hope that you shall return—saynot there is hope, as my husband and sons did. I have'learned well that delusion ;—I know you will never re- :turn—but in the country to which you may go, maythe Go ! of good bless you !—and this will be my first'prayer in tire morning, and my last in the evening.”Mariette said not a word ; and the soldier, who wishedto tiirow a lightness over the scene, and to divert thepoor girl from the seeming intensity of her thoughts >took her familiarly by the hand, with the intention ofaddressing her playfully. But suddenly his spirits for-flsook him ;—there was a passion in her posture that atjlonce overcame him ; and this was, perhaps, the firstjjtime in which he beheld her in any other light than thanlof a young and artless girl. “ Mariette,” he said, witlJI17rmie hesitation,'—“ Marietta you have learned the'jiiglish language a thought hung over him which heouid not articulate : and all the harassments of a pro-racted parting might have been experienced, had not aarid of his comrades arrived to hurry him away. Ab-uptly, and holding his hands over his eyes, he left theouse ; and the noise of many voices dying graduallyway, told the cottagers that he was gone for ever.It was long before the grief of the widow and theaughter ceased to be violent. Days passed on—weeks-months,—and every day called up a remembrancefilicting as it was regular. The feelings of Mariette,owever, assumed a loftier character than grief. Sheras of that age when the mind is alive to all the ro-lance of life—she had seen nothing and was seeingiothing of the world—and had imbibed an attachmentpr the British soldier, which every day strengthenedlore and more. In a little summer house that Allanad erected in the garden, she was constantly lingering,,nd indulging in the most Eutopian reveries. Therehe first formed the wild project of going to Britain, fort appeared to her as an enchanted land, and she thoughtf she were only there, and only saw' Barclay once more,he would be happy. “ I have learned the Englishanguage were his last words,” she would say—“ whatvails it but for his sake ? Perhaps he remembers meinly as the little girl who listened to his stories and hisfistrections, while he loves another in his own country,fhis may not be ;—I shall never now whether or not,—but were it not to leave my mother lonely and deso¬late, 1 would' go to England, and search Inin out, andice what he thinks of me now.j Nearly two years passed on, and Mariette still in-lulged the prospect of visiting England, but was still;heeked by the thought of leaving her mother,—whenine afternoon a stranger, in sorry habiliments, and witlii body emaciated seemingly by fatigue, called at thecottage, and begged some little refreshment. He wasiiudly shown a seat at the fireside, and a little roundIBlabie, with some simple refreshment, was placed befohim. The viands, however, which he lifted to 1mouth, lie seemed to swallow with dilKculty; and ktrembling hands and pale face drew on him the eyesboth mother and daughter ; when, after a short a<hurried survey, suddenly the mother shrieked, and fle;to the arms of her beloved and long exiled son. A maiupon his hand, which he had received when he was,child, first told the mother who her guest was. He hibeen endeavouring to disguise himself, to enjoy mo;vividly the home of his childhood. After the first cotgratulations were over, he told them of his sufferings 1biberia, where as Thomson beautifully says,nought aroundStrikes the sad eye but deserts lost in snow,And heavy loaded groves, and solid floods,That stretch athwart the solitary vastTheir icy horrors to the frozen main ;And cheerless towns far distant, never Mess’dSave when its annual course the caravanBends to the golden coast of rich CathayYV ith news of human kind-  howr he hail escaped—and how he travelled on foqthrough it thousand of dangers and difficulties, whicihis former hardships had learned him to brave, and thpleasure that he now felt, had fully atoned for.Mariette congratulated herself with no ordinary feelings on the arrival of her brother. She felt relieve*now, and fully at liberty to undertake the journey whicishe had long meditated. A day or trvo passed in malvmg arrangements for her departure, which she deter-mintd should be privately ; for she well knew', that t«consult her mother or brother would he to throw in heiWiiy an effectual barrier.. To keep their minds at ease,however, she drew out a shorty letter intimating thalshe had left them on a particular errand, which shedurst not disclose, and that she would return in a fewweeks. A small purse of money which was her own,and a small bundle of clothes, which she had previouslyhid under a tree, at some distance from the cottage,19 ,was all that she considered necessary for her journey:—■and on a fine April morning she left the home of herfathers, unobserved and unsuspected. A lingering lookat her mother who lay still asleep, and whom sh wouldfain have kissed awake, to beseech a blessing—andanother look at her beloved cottage, as she turned thelast winding of the road which hid it, perhaps for ever,from her view, wrere the only swerves which her for¬titude made in her bold and dangerous undertakingTo trace out her progress to England, and latterly (oScotland, in search of the regiment to which Jlarelaybelonged—interesting as it might be—would exceed thentended limits of this story.It was in Glasgow, in the middle of summer, that•he lirst came in contact with the regiment. It hadrecti long expected to enter that city, for the first timesince the termination cf the War; and the numerousrelations and acquaintances of those belonging to it (forthough professedly an Argyllshire regiment, the — waschiefly composed of native s of Glasgow) had been hourly,like Mariette, looking for its arrival. Towards the af¬ternoon of a delightful summer day, the drums soundingthrough that narrow street in the Goibals which leadsup to the old bridge, first announced its approach ; amiMariette stood, with many others, waiting, with infin¬ite anxiety, for its appearance. The heavy drum wasmomently sounding louder and louder, and was heardeven amidst the cheers which a warm hearted peoplebestowed upon a native and favourite regiment. Awrypeal vibrated on the heart of Mariette ; and as theblackening crowd which preceded the soldiers drew on,her fears and her hopes increased. Her knees shookviolently, her lips turned pale and tremulous, and herbright eyes seemed to herself to have lost tlieir power ofvision. The sudden summons, however, of a stoutheart,—and the determination of screening herself in themeantime, should he be there—recovered her greatly,when the regiment advanced. Still her gaze was eagerand frightful as battalion after battalion passed befoieher. At length her eyes fell full upon the object oftheir search, whose appearance was too deeply rootedin hei mind to escape them. She saw him merely, andbut for a moment. Her vision again lost its power ;and before she recovered, the regiment and the crowdwere far advanced before her. With a palpitating heartshe followed it; and when it had entered the barrackgates, and the last beat of the drum and huzza of thecrowd were over, she ventured forward, and with atimid eye, looked along the splended area of the Glas- «gow infantry barracks. It was some time before sheobserved Allan, who was standing at the further ex- .tremity. A chilly damp came over her, as she marked ■that he was conversing with a young woman. All thedoubts and fears, that at times had crossed her mind,of Barclay being engaged, were by this awakened. Sheleaned herself against the gate ; nor durst she for some ■time confirm by another glance, what she had seen, and .when at length she ventured to lift her eyes, he was igone ! She now felt, for the first time, her fortitude jwaver, and hurrying into a house of entertainment op¬posite the barracks, asked lor a small apartment, which ;she had no sooner entered than she flung herself upon ja chair and wept bitterly. The landlady of the house ;did not leave her long to this indulgence, but presentlvstanding before her, startled her by enquiring what her :pleasure was. “ Any thing,” was the poor girl’s reply,“ any refreshment you have.” With a tedious and un¬listened to proem, the landlady handed in a slight re¬fection, and left the girl again to herself.A much different company took up the attention ofthe loquacious hostess. It was four or five of the soldiers 1who were enjoying themselves in an apartment immedi¬ately adjoining that of Mariette’s. A slight wooden jpartition divided the rooms ; and it was impossible—in- 1terested even as Mariette was in her own thoughts—not .to hear the conversation that passed. One voice immedi¬ately awakened her attention—a voice as familiar andas endeared to her as her mother’s—the voice of Ahan j21•Barclay. She listened now in fearful trepidation, andas the joke and laugh went round, she, in the delusionof her own grief, wondered he could be so light hearted.—“ a bumper, my boys,” she heard one cry, “ to theGlasgow lasses! They look blyther and kinder thanever. What say you Barclay ? Yon must pledge itdespite of all French trumpery !”—“ My second bum¬per it will be,” she heard her beloved Barclay answer,“but you know, Tom, I must first pay my orison tothe ruling divinity-.” “ Pooli! that everlasting Mari-ette again ! I wish you had her in your arms and bedone with her.”—“ A toast of that,” cried Barclay—“ its your own dear Tom, you cannot object to it.”Object!—I'd drink the Devil were the whisky good.Hurra, my lads, hurra !”It would be difficult to describe the sensations whichMariette felt on heaririff these words. There was aosudden brightening up of her countenance, but moreseemingly the effect of alarm than satisfaction. Everythought which she had nourished so long and so ardently,rushed hi upon her, and her heart throbbed as if it wouldhave burst its boundaries. “ He remembers me yet,”she said—“ but is it as of one who would relieve thetedium of a wife ? If it be so,” added she, raising her¬self, “ he shall not know what I have suffered for him ;and I shall return to iny own country, this moment,though my heart should break by the way.” Thisburst of a noble minded girl was quickly succeeded bya delightful beam of hope, which had be. n buried in theconflict of less pleasant passiems. “ He may not bemarried,—he cannot be,—she may have been a relationI saw—a sister ;—it is only so,”—and she rung for thelandlady. “ Is there,” she asked hesitatingly, “ anAllan Barclay in your house ?"* “ Not that I knowof,” was the essence of the landlady’s answer. “ Heis a soldier,” said Mariette. “ You wish a -soldier ?"returned the landlady, smirkingly. Mariette, withoutresenting the insult, summoned up her spirits and toldthe landlady that she wished one of the name of Barclay,22in the adjoining room, to speak with her. The land¬lady delivered her errand bluntly enough, and Barclay,after a hundred hideous jokes had been poured upon himby Ids comrades, calmly entered the apartment whereMariette was standing. On seeing her, all otherthoughts were lost in surprise, but soon love was trium¬phant; and the meeting of two affectionate hearts—long separated without hope—formed a scene of inde¬scribable emotion. In the enthusiasm of their interviewmuch was told. He was not married ;—he too hadsuffered hardships of a peculiar nature, although not asin her case, for the object of his attachment;—a lifewas still before him to repay her wonderful affection :—and it is gratifying to add, that—soon freed from hislong and hard served soldiership—he returned with hisbeautiful wife, to the pleasant fields of France, and themore pleasant cottage of Dame Clerville.LOVE AND TORTURE.Ax Glasgow in Scotland, a young gentleman beingpassionately'm love with a young lady of superior rankand fortune, and having won her affections, the youngcouple found themselves under a necessity to concealtheir mutual inclinations, from a dread of the violenttemper of the lady’s father, who aimed at nothing lessthan a noble alliance for Ids daughter.Under these circumstances, the imprudent girl per¬mitted her lover to make her private nocturnal visits,the fruit of which was the loss of her honour ; and hav¬ing once yielded to his guilty solicitations, she afterwardsmade no scruple to let him pass the greatest part of thenight in her chamber. This intrigue hail lasted somemonths, and was conducted with so much care and cir¬cumspection, that even the servants of the house had nosuspicion of such an aifair. But some neighbours passingby the house one flight, saw the young man come out23and retire with great precaution : this discovery, how¬ever, only brought the young lady’s virtue in question,and as they were not interested in that, they wisely keptthe secret.Some time after, the same house was found to hestript of the plate and other valuable effects to a con-i siderable amount: the servants discovered the robberyi when they awoke in the morning; but not the least: conjecture could be made who committed the robbery.I The neighbours then thought it their duty to clear them-i selves from all suspicions, and with this view they made: a declaration before a magistrate, of what they had seen,t Appearances were so strong against the youth, that theI magistrate did not hesitate, but immediately had him: arrested and charged with the fact. He disowned theicrime with indignation ; but a generous concern for thehonour of his mistress would not permit him to confessI the true motive of his coming out of her house in the(dead of the night: embarrassed by the delicacy of his(situation, he gave such a confused and improbable ac¬count of himself, that his manner of defending himself■iseemed to amount nearly to a conviction ; however, as: lie still maintained that he was innocent, and the evi-idence of his accusers was not sufficient to prove himt guilty, the judges ordered the torture.In Scotland the torture was not so terrible as in someL other countries, but it was sufficient to answer the pur¬pose of extorting truth or falsehood from the unhappyvictims whose strength or resolution was not equal to itstorments. It consisted in making them swallow a cer¬tain quantity of water, which dime, they extended themon the Hoor of the prison, and placed a plank upon ti.estomach, on which the executioner stood, and pressed(the poor wretch till he regorged the water with extreme(violence : this cruel punishment was repeated till theparty confessed the crime of which he was accused.I The rumour of this sentence reached the ears of his(nistress; affection and gratitude made her determine tolave the life of the generous m. n, at the expense of24publishing her own dishonour: she threw herself at thefeet of the judges, confessed the intrigue, and added,that it was impossible he could be the criminal, because'sue had always let him in and out of the house herself..This declaration being considered by the judge as a love1stratagem, it produced no effect, and the unfortunate,.;youth, not; able to endure the pain of the torture, con¬i'; ; soil the robbery, and required as a particular favour’,t hat the judges would not delay his death; but fortunately;for him, this request was not complied with, it. being the'custom in those days to postpone the execution of crimi¬nals to stated days, that the number might strike moreterror, and serve as a more forcible example to the spec¬tators.In the inter val, the hand of Providence wrought hisdeliverance.—Two highwaymen were condemned forre a] crimes, arid being under sentence of death, werethrown into the same dungeon. Here they learned theeaiise of. his deplorable situation, and having no hopes oflife themselves, they resolved not to suffer an innocentman to die for a crime they had committed. Without.Iocs of time, therefore, they imparted to the judges sueevident proofs of their having committed the robbery,'that the youth was set at liberty; and the judges,struck with their own error,..which shewed the crueltyand .absurdity of the torture, applied to the legislatui ,and obtained a legal abolition of this custom for ever ;and, as a recompense to the lover, they used all theirilinterest with the lady’s father, who seeing himself sojpowerfully solicited, granted his consent, and they wen;happily united.