..>1 CHEAP TR ACtS,\Caiculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.I No. VLSerious| ThoughtsFORThe Limner.OFrom Hervey’s Meditations among theTombs.’’Tis equally man's duty, glory, gain.At once to shun and meditate his end.DUNBAR:^Printed by G. Mieler :—at whofe Shop may be bad a varietyof Pamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pictures, Catechifmf,5tc.WHOLESALE AUD RETAIL.SERIOUS THOUGHTS.Make the extendedjkies your tomb ;Let Jiarj record your ’worth :Yet know, vain mortals, all mujl die.As nature's fickliejl birth.Would bounteous Heav’n indulge my pray'rtIframe a nobler choice;Nor living, wijh the pompous pue ;Nor dead, regret the lofi.In thy fair book of life divine,My God, injcribe my name *There let it Jill fame humble place.Beneath the Jlaughter'd Lamb.Thy faints, while ages roll away,In endlefs fame Jurvive,Their glories o'er the wrongs of time,Greatly triumphant, live.Of That they were wife! faid the infpiredpenman. It was his laft wiih for hisdear peeple : he breathed it out, and gavesap the ghoft.—But what is wifdom ? It con-lifts not in refined fpeculations, accuratereiearches into nature, or an univerfal ac¬quaintance with hiftory. The divine Law¬giver lettles this important point in his nextufpiration; Qh ! that they vinderftood this i( 3 )i jhat they had right apprehenfions of theirSpiritual interefls, and eternal concerns! that((they had eyes to difcern, and inclinations|:o purlue the things which belong to theiroeacc !—But how Hull they attain this Valu¬able knowledge ? I fend them not, adds theillluftrious teacher, to turn over all therolumes of literature: they may acquire,iand much more expeditioufly, this feene ofi ife, by confidering their latter end. This: park of heaven is often loft under the glit^jier of pompous erudition, but (hines clearlylln the gloomy manfions of the tomb. Drown-led is this gentle whifper amidft the nolle ofIartal affairs, but Ipeaks diftincftly in thetirements of ferious contemplation.—Bc-ild ! how providentially I am brought toe Ichool of wifdom ! The grave is theoft faithful mafter ; and thele inftances ofortality, the moft inftrudivc leflbns. ome, then, calm attention, and compofey thoughts; come, thou celeftial Spirit,id enlighten my mind ; that I may fo per-e theie awful pages, as to “become wife;f‘unto falvation.”’ Examining the records of mortality, Ir. ouncl the memorials of a promilcuous mul-mtude. They were huddled, at ieaft theyjlrefted together, without any regard to rank|3r ienionty. None were ambitious of thefjuppermoft rooms, or chief feats, in thisI aoufc of mourjiing. None entertained fond( .4 )•" # # %and eager expedations of being honourablygreeted in their darkfome cells. The manof years and experience, repwted as an or¬acle in his generation, was content to liedown at the feet of a “babe. In this houfeappointed for all living, the fervant wasequally accommodated, and lodged in fhefame ffory with his mafter. The poor in-digent lay as foftly, and flept as fqundly, a$the moft opulent poffefTor. All the diftinc-tion that fubfifted, was a grafly hillock,bound with ofiers; or a fepukhral done,ornamented with imagery.Why then, faid my working thoughts,O ! why fhould we raife fuch a mighty ffirabout fuperiority and precedence, when thenext remove will reduce us all $o a flare ofequal meannels ? Why fhould we exalt our-felves, or debafe others; fince we mud allone day be upon a common level, andblended together inthefame undiftinguifhcddull ? Oh 1 that this confideration mighthumble my own and others pride : and finkour imagination's as low as our habitation'will fhortly be !Among thefe confufed relics of humanity,there are, without doubt, perfons of contraryinterefts, and contradi&ing fentiments : Butdeath, like fome able dayfman, has laid hishand on the contending parties, and broughtall their differences to an amicable conclu-fion. Here enemies, fworn enemies, dwelljjjtogether in unity. They drop every ambit-ijtered thought, and forget that they oncewere foes. Perhaps their crumbling bones|mix as they moulder; andthofe who, whileithey lived, flood, aloof in ifteconcileablei variance, here fall into mutual embracesyland even incorporate with each otherj in the grave. Oh ! that we might“learn from there friendly aflres, not to per-npetuate the memory of injuries ; not to•jfoment the fever of refentment; nor cherifh|the turbulence of paffion ; that there mayi be as little animolrty and difagreement inlithe land of the living, as there is in the con~greganon of the dead ! '—One is tempted to exclaim againfl thei|king of terrors,'and call him capricioufly■ cruel. He feems, by • beginning at theI wrong end of the regiiter, to have invertedI the laws of nature. Faffing over the couchof decrepit age, he has«hpped infancy in itsbud; blafted youth in its bloom ; and tornup manhood in its full maturity.—Terribleindeed are thefe providences, yet not tin-fearchable the counfels :For us they Jicken, and for usjhey die*.Such flrokes muft not only grieve therelatives, but furpnfe the whole neighbour-* Night Thoughts.C 6 )frood. They found a powerful alarm to heed¬less dreaming mortals, and are intendedas a remedy for our carnal lecurity. Suchflpnfilng bells inculcate loudly our Lord’sadmonition : Take ye heed, watch, and** pray ; for ye know not when the time is.”—We no‘d, like intoxicated creatures, uponthe very verge of a tremendous precipice.Thei’e aftcnifhing difpenfations are the kindmeffengers of heaven, to roufe us from ouriupinenefs, and quicken us into timely cir¬cumspection. I need not surely accom-'modatc them with language, noraCt as theirinterpreter. Let every one’s conscience beawake, and this will appear their awful mean¬ing :—{C O! ye sons of men, in the midft<c of life you are in death. No ftate, no(t circumftances, can ascertain your preser-e< vation a Tingle moment. So ftrong is thetc tyrant’s arm, that nothing can refift itsc< force; so true his aim, that nothing can“ elude the blow. Sudden as lightning,.*£ sometimes is his arrow launched ; andwounds and kills, in the twinkling of ant£ eye. Never promife yourfelf fafety in antr expedient, but conftant preparation. Thefatal fliafts fly fo promifeuoufly, that none“ can guefs the victim. Therefore, be ye*c always ready ; for in fuch an hour as ye“ think not, the final fummons cometh.”Be ye always ready ; for in fuch an houras ye think not.—Important admonition!Me-( 7 )| thinks, it reverberates from sepulchre to se-Ipulchre, and addrefies me with line uponline, precept upon precept. The reiteratedwarning, lacknowledgc, is too needful; may-co-operating grace render it effeftual! Themomentous truth, though worthy to be en-]| graved on the tables cf a moft tenaciousjj memory, is but llightly Iketched on theI tranfient flow of paffion. We fee our neigh-| bours fall: we turn pale at the fhock ; andi feel, perhaps, a trembling dread. Nofooner. are they removed from orar fight, but driven|j in the whirl of bufinefs, or lulled in thes langours of pleafure, we forget the provid-j ence, and negiedl its errand. The impref-jll lion made On our unftable minds, is likeIjl the trace of an arrow through the penetrated1 air, or the path of a keel in the furrowed|jj wave. Strange ftupidity l- —IHow thin is the.partition between thisworld and another ? How (hort the tran-fition from time to eternity !Legions, legions of difafters, fuch as noprudence can forelee, and no care prevent,lie in wait to accomplifh our doom. A ftart-ing horfe may throw his rider ; may at once:dalb his body againft the flones, and flinghis foul into the invifible world. A flack:of chimneys may tumble into the flreet, andcrufh the unwary paffenger under the ruins;even a fingle tile, dropping from the roof,pray bfe as fatal as the fall of the wholeftrudlnre.—So frail, fo very attenuated isthe thread of life, that it. not only burfts ,before the ftorm, but breaks even at a jbreeze, Tbemoft common occurrences, thofe Jlfrom which we fufpedl not the leaft harm, jmay.prove the weapons of our deftrudion.A grape-ftone, a defnicable fly, may bemore mortal than Goliath, with all his for¬midable armour. INav, if God give com¬mand, our very comforts become killing, ,'S he air we breathe, is our bane ! and thefood we ear, the vehicle of death.—Thatlaft enemy has unnumbered avenues, for hss-approach : yea, lies entrenched in our veryboiom, and holds his tort refs in the feat ofour life The crimfon fluid, which diftri-bvites health, is impregnated with the feeds,of death. Heat may inflame it, or toilmp-prefs it, and make it deflroy the parrs it wasdeflgned. to .cherifh. . Some unfeen impedi¬ment may obftrutn; its paffage, or tome un-itnown violence may divert its courfe ; in,cither of which cafes it ads the part of apoifonous draught, or a deadly flab.jih ! in vjhat perils is vain life engag'd!What flight* eglthis what trivial faults dejlro'j'The kardiejl frame / Of indolence, oftoiltWe die ; of want, of Juperfiuity.The all furrounding heav'n, the vital airIs big with death.Since then we are fo liable to be difpcflef-fed of this earthly tabernacle, let us look.. ;( 8 )( 5 )upon ourfelves only as ten ants at will; andhold ourfelves in perpetual readinels to de¬part at a moment’s warning. Without fuckan habitual readinefs, we are like wretchesthat deep on the top of a maid, while a hor¬rid gulph yawns, or furious waves rage be-j ow. And where can be the peace, what: the fatisfa&ion of fuch a (late ? Whereas, aprepared condition will infpire a cheerful-nefs of temper, not to be dilmayed by any: alarming accident, and create a firmnefs otmind, not to be overthrown by the mollthreatening dangers.I Here lie their bbdiesin “peaceable habit-cations, and quiet telling-places.” Herethey have thrown off every burden, and areefcaped from every Inare. The head achst1 ik) more ; the eye forgets to weep ; the fleihis no longer racked with acute, nor waftedi with lingering diftempers. Here they re¬ceive a final releafe from pain, and an ever-laftingdifcharge from forrows. Here dangernever threatens them with her terrifyingalarms; but tranquillity foftens their couch,and fafety guards their repofe.—Reft then,ye precious relics, v/ithin this hofpitablegloom; reft in gentle flumbers till the lafttrumpet lhall give the welcome fignal, andfound *loud, through all your filent man-lions. “ Arife, Ihine; for your light is“ come, and the glory of the Lord is rifenc upon you,”( 10 )To thefe, how calm was the evening oflife! la what a fmihng fere«ity did theirfun go down ! When their flelh and theirheart failed, how reviving was the remem¬brance of an all fufficient Redeemer; oncedying for their fins, now rifen again for theirjoftification: How cheating the well ground¬ed hope of pardon for their tranfgreffions,and peace with God through Jesus Christour Lord ! How did this aflaage the agon¬ies, and fweeten the bitternefs of death ?—Where now is wealth, with all h<er goldenmountains ? Where is honour, with herproud trophies of renown? Where are all thevain pomps of a deluded world ? Can theyinfpire fuch comfort, can they adminifterany fupport, in this laft extremity ? Canthey cotnpofe the affrighted thoughts, orbuoy up the departing foul, amidft all thepangs of diflblution —The followers ofthe Lamb feem pleafed and triumphanteven at their laft gafp. “God’s everlaftmg“ arms are underneath” their faintingheads. His Spirit whifpers peace and con¬solation to^heir confciences. In the ftrengthof thele heavenly fuccours they quit thefield, not captives but conquerors ; with“hopes full of immortality.”And new they are gone. The ftrug-gles of reluctant nature are over- The bodylieeps in death, the foul launches into theinvifible ftate.—But who can imagine theC « )ilelightful farprifc, when they and them-felves farrounded by guardian angels, in-ftead of weeping friends? Hew fecurely dothey wing their way, and pafs through un¬known worlds, under the conduct of thofeceleflial guides .*—The vale of tears is quiteloft. Farewel, for ever, the realms of woe,and range of malignant beings ! They ar¬rive on the frontiers of inexpreffible felicity.They “are come to the city of the livingGod while a voice, fweeter than mulic inher fofteft {trains, fweet as the harmony ofhymning ferapfiitn, congratulates theirarrival, and befpeaks their admiftion : Liftup your heads, O ye gates; and be yelift up, ye everlafting doors, that the heirsof glory may enter in.Here, then, let us leave the fpirits andfouls of the righteous, efcaped from an en¬tangling wilderness, and received into a pa-radife of delights ! escaped from the terri¬tories of disquietude, and settled in regionsof unmolefted security! Here they fit downwith Abraham, Ifaac, and Jacob, in thekingdom of their Father. Here they minglewith an innumerable company of angels,and rejoice around the throne of the Lamb;rejoice in the fruition of present felicity,and in the allured expectation of an incon¬ceivable addition to their bliss ; when GOf>lhall call the heavens from above, and theearth, that he may judge his people.v( 12 )^ Fools accounted their life madness, and ;their end to be without honour; but theyare numbered among the children of GOD,and their lotv their diftinguifhed and eter- 1rial lot, is among the saints ! However,therefore, an undiscerning world may dif-pise, and'a profane world vilify, the trulyreligious ; be this the supreme, the invari¬able defire of my heart ? “Let me livfe the£< life, and die the death, of the righteous.Ci Oh ! let my latter end, and future ftate,ct be like theirs.”^The only infallible way of immortalizingour characters, a way equally open to themeaneft and mod exalted fortune, is “ to(i make our calling and election luretogain fome (weet evidence, that our namesare written in heaven. Then, however they-may be difregarded or forgotten amongmen, they will not fail to be had in ever-lafting remembrance before the Lord. This is, of all diftindions, far the nobleft ,this will iffue in never-dying renown. Am¬bition, be this thy objeft, and every pageof fcripture will fan&ify thy paflion; evengrace itlelf will fan thy flame.—As to earth¬ly memorials, yet a h'ttle while, and theyare all obliterated. The tongue of thofe, |whofe,.happinefs we have zealoirfly promot¬ed, muft foon be filent in the coffin. Char-afters cut with a pen of iron, and com-mitted^to the folid rock, will, ere long.I( 13 ) 1:ceafe to tie legible. But as many as are in-’ rolled “in the Lamb’s book of life,” hejhimfelf declares, (hall never be blotted out -ilfrom thofe annals of eternity. When a[ flight of years has mouldered the triumphalcolumn into dull; when the brazen ftatue,fj perifhes, under the corroding hand of time;! thofe honours {till continue ; ftill are bloom -j ing and incorruptible, in the world of glory.Could we draw back the covering of the;; tomb; could ave difcern what thofe arei: now, who once were mortals ? oh ! howijij would it furprife and grieve us! Surprife us,I to behold the prodigious transformation’|| which has taken place on every individual;1 grieve us, to obferve the difhonour done to!(;our natqre in general, within thefe fubter-Ijjraneous lodgments!I - Here the fweet and winning afpedt, that| wore perpetually an attractive fmile, grinsJ horribly a naked, ghaftly fcull.—The eye,I that outfhined the diamond’s brilliancy, and^glanced its lovely lightning into the mofl;5 guarded heart, alas ! where is it ? Wheretlshall we find the rolling iparkler !—Howilare all its fprightly beams eclipfed> totallynieclipfed!—The tongue, that once command-ncd all the fweetnefs of harmony, and all the:rtpowers of eloquence, in this flrange land has'■'1“ forgot its cunning.” Where are now thofeq ftrains of melody, which ravifhed our ears ?|jWhere is that flow of perfuafion, whichC 14 )carried captive our judgements ? The greatmatter of language, and of tong, is becomelilent as the night that furrounds him.— Thepampered flefli, fo lately clothed in purpleand fine linen, how is it covered rudely withclods of clay ! There was a time when thetimoroufly nice creature would fcarce “ ad¬venture to fet a foot upon ,the ground, fordelicatenefs and tendernefs,” but is nowenwrapped in clammy earth, and fleeps onno fofter a pillow than the rugged gravei-ftones.—Here “the ftrong men bow them-felves the nervous arm is unftrung; thebrawny finews are relaxed; the limbs notlong ago the feats of vigour and activity,'V lie down motionlefs ; and the bones, whichwere as bars of iron, are crumbled intoduft.Here the man of bufinefs forgers all hisfavourite fchemes, and dilcontinues the pur- ’fuit of gain. Here is a total Hand to thecirculation of merchandize, and the hurryof trade. In thefe folitary recefles, as inthe building of Solomon’s temple, is heardno found of the hammer and axe. Thewinding-fheet, and the coffin, are the utmoflbound of all earthly devices; “Hitherto** may they go, but no further.”—Here thefons of pleafure take a final farewel of theirdear delights. No more is the fenfualiftanointed with oil, or crowned witlf rofe-buds; he chants no more to the melody of*5)i the viol, nor revels any longer at the ban-;quet of wine. Inftead of fumptuous tables,ijand delicious treats, the poor voluptuary ishimfelf a feaft for fattened infe<5ts; the rep-|:ile riots in his fleih ; “the worm feedsre fweetly on him”.—Here alfo beauty fails;jbright beauty drops her luftre here. O! howjher rofes fade, and her lilies languifh, inhis bleak foil ! How does the grand level-er pour contempt upon the charmer of ourearts! How turn to deformity, what cap-ivated the world before !Should one of thefe ghaftly figures burflfom his confinement, and ftart up in fright-ul deformity, before me ;—fhould the hag-ard fkeleton lift a clattering hand, andoint it full in my view;—fhould it openhe ftifFened jaws, and, with a hoarfe tre-Inqndous murmur, break this profound fi-ijience;—fhould it accoft me, as Samuel’s ap-arition addrefled the trembling king,—The Lord fhall deliver thee alio into thehands of death; yet a little while, andc thou (halt be with me”—The folemnarning, delivered in fo ftriking a manner;uft ftrongly imprefs my imagination ; aneflage in thunder would fcarce fink deep-f.—Yet there is abundantly greater rea-bn to be alarmed, by that exprefs declara-ion of the LorO God Almighty, “ Thoue fhalt furely die”—Well then, fince fen-ence is palled, fince I am a condemnedI( 26 ) Iman, and know not when the dead warranmay arrive; let me die to fin, and die to the;world, before I die beneath the ftroke of a<righteous God. Let me employ the littleuncertain interval of refpite from execution^in preparing for a happier ftate, and a bettedlife; that, when the fatal moment comesyand I am commanded to Unit my eyes uponall things here below, I may open themagain, to fee my Saviour in the manfior.sabove.Since this body, which is fo fearfully andwonderfully made, muft fall to pieces in thegrave ; fince I muft foon refign all my bodi¬ly powers to darkness, ina&ivity, and cor¬ruption ; let it be my conftanx care to ufethem well, while I pofleis them ! Leimy hands be ftretched forth to relieve theneedy ; and always be “more ready to give“than to receivef’-rLet my knees bend, irdeepeft humiliation, before the throne ograce ; while my eyes are call down to theearth, in penitential confufion, or devoutlylooking up to heaven for pardoning mercy iIn every friendly interview, let the “lavtf of kindnefs dwell on my lips or ratherif the feriousnefsof my acquaintance permitslet the gofpel of peace flow from my tonguejjO! that I might be enabled, in every publr Jconcourfe, to lift up my voice like a trumM'pet; and pour abroad a more joyful foumWthan its moft melodious accents, in proclaim|( 't >.|ng the glad tidings of free falvation ! —Bela hut, my ears, refolutely (hut. againfl theflinalevolent whifpers of (lander, and thecontagious breath of filthy talking; but bei wift to hear the inftrudtions of wifdom, be,11 attention, wherf*yoUr Redeemer (peaks;tnbibe tne precious truths and convey themiparefully to the heart.—Carry me my feet,o the temple of the Lord ; to the beds ofhe hek, and houfes of the poor—May all<jny members, devoted entirely to my divineMafter, be the willing inftrurfients of pro«tooting his glory.Then, ye embalmers, you may fpare yourains : thefe \voiks.of faith, and labours ofve ; thele (hall be my (pices and perfumes,wrapped in thefe, I would lay me gentlyown, and deep fwt etly in the blefled Jasus ;optng that God will “give commandmentconcerning my bones;” and one day letchm up from the duft, as filver from thepmace, purified, “L fay not, feven times,c but feventy times feven.”Refurredlion ! that cheat ing‘ word eases.y mind of an anxious thought, and folvesmoil momentous queflion. I was goingafk, “Wherefore do all thefe corpies liehere, in this abjed condition ? Is thistheir final ftate ? Has death conquered ?and will the tyrant hold captivity captive?How long wilt thou forget them, O Lord?For ever ?”——-No, saith the voice fromC is )heaven, the word of divine revelation ; Th<righteous are all fcprifoners of hope.” Thereis an hour (an awful fecret that, and knownonly to all-foreleeing wifdom) an appointeehour there is, when an a<ft of grace will paf*the great feal above, and give them s-n uni?verfal djfchar»e, a general delivery frontthe abodes of corruption.—Then (hall the.Lord Jesus defeend from heaven, with tht(hour of the archangel, and the trump ofGod. Deftru&ion itfelf fhall hear his call,and the obedient grave give up her deadIn a, moment, in the twinkling of an eye,they (hake off the fleep of ten thoufancyears, and fpring forth, like the boundingroe, “ to meet their Lord in the air.”And, O ! with what cordial congratu¬lations, what tranfporting endearments, dcthe foul and body, thofe affeftionate com¬panions, re-unite ! But with how muchgreater demonftrations of kindnefs, are theyboth received by their compaffionate Re¬deemer! The Ancient of days, who comes inth.e clouds of heaven, is their friend, theinfather, their bridegroom. He comes withirrefiftible power, and infinite glory. Butthey have nothing to fear from his majefticappearance. Thofe tremendous folemnities,which fpread defol^tion and aftonifhmenthrough the univerfe, ferve only to inflamtheir love, and heighten their hopes. ThJudge, the awful Judge, amidft all hiilhiagnificence and fpiendour, vouclifafes toclconfefs their names; vouchfafes to coni-mtmorate their fidelity, before all the in-islhabitants oi the Ikies, and the whole affem-ijbied world.Hark ! the thunders are hufhed. See !‘the lightnings ceafe their rage ; the angelici jarmies ftand in filent fufpenle ; the wholenxace of Adam is wrapt in pleafing or anxiousvjexpeftation.———And now that adorableiperfon, whofe favour is better than life,I whole acceptance is a crown of glory, lifts|op the light of his countenance upon theIrighteous. He Ipeaks ; and what raviihingIwords proceed from his gracious lips! WhatJeeftafies of delight they enkindle in thethreads of the faithful! “I accept you, O mypeople ! Ye are they that believed in myIlf* name. Ye are they that renounced your-felves, and are complete in me. I fee no|f ‘ fpot or blcmilh in you ; for ye are wafhedmP in my blood, and clothed in my right-jf ‘ eoufnefs. Renewed by my Spirit, ye haveIfc glorified me on earth, and have been** faithful unto death. Come, then, yeIf£ fervants of holinefs, enter into the joy ofyour Lord. Come, ye children of light,|j;£ ye blefied of my Father, receive the'*'£ kingdom that (ball never be removed ;jlf£ wear the crown which fadeth not away;• f£ and enjoy pleafures for evermore !The wicked—My mind recoils at the. ( 20 )apprehenfion of their miferv. It has ftudi-oufly waved the fearful fubjedt, and leemaunwilling to purfue it even now.—But, ’tisjlbetter to refledt upon it for a few minutes3than to en<iure it to eternal ages.The wicked feem to lie here, like malejfadlors in a deep and jftrong dungeon, relferved againft the day of trial.—!< Tlaeir,“ departure was without peace.” When thelad ficknefs feized their frame, and the ip*evitable change advanced; when they fawthe fatal arrow fitting to the firings; fawthe deadly archer aiming at their heart; andfelt the envenomed fhaft faftencd in theirvitals.—Good God ! what fearfulnefs cameupon them ! what horrible dread overwhelm¬ed them ! How did they (land flmdderingand aghaft upon the tremendous precipice;exceffively afraid to plunge info the abyf:of eternity, yet utterly unable to maintairtheir Handing on the verge of life.O! wha^ pale reviews, what Rattling profpedis, confpire to augment their forrows !—They look backward, and behold, a mod melancholy fcene ! Sins unrepented of, mere’flighted, and the day of grace ending.—They look forward, and nothing prefent:itfelf but the righteous Judge, the dreadtriitribunal, and a moR folemn reckoning. jjThey roll around their affrighted eyes or|jattending friends, if accomplices in dc|bauchery, it fharpens their anguilh, to eonlfider this further aggravation of their guiltC 2i )ifnat they have not finned alone, but drawn•'ll thers into the fnare. If religious acquain-nance, it ftrik.es a frefh gafh into their hearts,0 think of never feeing them any more,>ut only -at an unapproachable diflance*ijeparated by the unpayable gulph.f At laft, perhaps, they begin to pray : Butwhy have they deferred, fo long tleferred theirbddrefles to God? Why have they defpiled all1 is counfels, and flood incorrigible under his vIfeflTant reproofs? How often have they bpenewarned of thefe terrors, and moft impor-ately entreated to feek the LORD, whilemight be found ?•—I wilh they may ob-i mercy at the eleventh, at the laft hour.alas ! who can tell, whether affrontedjefty will lend an ear to their complaint ?ether the holy One will work a miracle ofcein behalf of fuch tranfgreffors? He may,aught any mortal knows, “laugh at theirimity, & mock when their fear cometh.”Thus they lie groaning out the poor re¬gains of life; their limbs bathed in fweet;1 icir heart ftruggliig with convulfive throes;iains unfupportable throbbing thro’ every: ulfe ; and innumerable darts of agony trans-xing their confcience.i Happy diffolution ! were this the periodf their woes. But, alas ! all these tribul-: tions are only the “beginning of borrows:i fmall drop only from that cup of tremblingi hich is mingled for their future portion.—-No fooner has the laft pang diflodgedi( 22 )their reluftant fouls, but they are hurried:into the prefence of an injured, angry God; *—Refurredlion will be no privilege to them;but immortality itfelf their everlafting curfe.—Would they not blefs the grave, “that r.*‘land where all things are forgotten and ewilh to lie eternally hid in its deepeft gloom?But the dull refufes to conceal their pcrfons,or to draw a veil over their practices. Theymull alio awake; mull anfe; mull appearat the bar ; and meet the Judge ; a Judgebefore whom “the pillars of heaven tremble,“and the earth melts away:” a Judge, oncelong-luffering and very compafiionate, butnow unalterably determined to teach ilub-born offenders,—what it is to provoke theomnipotent Godhead ; what it is to trampleupon the blood of his Son, and offer defpiteto all the gracious overtures of his Spirit,Behold ! the books are opened ; the fe-crets of all hearts are difcloled ; the hiddenthings of darknefs are brought to light. Howempty, how ineffeftual now, are all thofe re¬fined artifices, with which hypocrites impof-ed upon their fellow-creatures, o»ad prefer-ved a chandler in the fight of men !—Thejealous Gob, who has been about their path,and about their bed, and ’Ipied out all theirways, “fets before them the things that they“have done.” They cannot anfvver him onein a thoufand, nor (land in the awful judge¬ment. The heavens reveal their iniquities,and the earth rifes up againft them. They( 23 )fpeechlefs with guilt, and ftigmatized. infamy before all the armies oi- the ikyfifd all the nations of the redeemed.—How muft the wretches fcream with wildpazemenr, and rend the very heavens witheir cries, when the right-aiming thunderdts go abroad 1 go abroad with a dreadfulimmiffion, to drive them from the kingdomglory; and plunge them, not into theTrows of a moment, or the tortures of anour,—but into all the reftlefs agonies of un-fjjenchable fire, and everlalting defpair.Milery of miferies1 too fhocking for re-dlion to dwell upon. Eut, it fo difmal torelee, awd that at a diftance, together withline comfortable expeftation of cfcaping it.-O ! how bitter, inconceivably bitter, toar, without any inrermiflion, or any miti-tion, through hopelefs and eternal ages.Wonder, G man; be loft in admiration,thole prodigious events which are comingion the univerfe : events, the greatnels ofllnch nothing finite can meafurc; fuch as(ill caufe whatever is confiderabie or mo-entous in the annals of all generations, toik into littlenefs and nothing. Eventsftsus, prepare us for their approach 1 de-nu us, when they take place!) big with the^eiiaiiang fates of all the living, atui ail the-■ad.—i muft lee the graves cleaving, thea teeming, and fwarms untufpedted, crowdsmumbered, yea. multitudes of throngingmons, rifihg from both. 1 muft fee the. ; ( 24 )world in flames; muft ftand at the difibbtion of all terreftial things; and be an aueidant on the burial of nature.—-I mufF fothe vatl expanfe of the iky wrapt up likefcroli; and the incarnate God, illuing fortfrom light inacceflible, with ten thoufantimes ren thoufand angels, to judge bot!.men and devils.— - I muft fee the curta:of time drop; fee all eternity disclosed tview: ^nd enter upon a ftate of being, thtwill never, never have an end.And ought I not (let the vaineft imagication determine; ought 1 not) to try thfincerity of my faith, and take heed to mways? /s there an inquiry, is there a care, cgreater,' of equal, of comparable importance——-Is not this an infinitely prefling call, 0see that my loins are girded about, my lamjtrimmed, and myself drefled for the Bridegroom’s appearance ; that, walked in thfountain opened in my Saviour’s fide, ancclad with the marriage garment, wove b;his obedience I may be found in peace, unbiameable, and unreprov^ble.—Otherwisehow (hall I ftand with boldness, when thiftars of heaven fall from their orbs ? hoyfhall I come forth erect and courageous, whetthe earth itself reels to and fro like a drunkard? how fhall I look up with joy, and secmy salvation drawing nigh,when the heart:pf millions and millions fail for fear ?FINIS.Friniid by C Miller, Dunbar.