THEOFMoney - Catching^AND THEWAY TO THMYE,BYTurning a Penny to advantage ;WITH A NEW METHOD OF&C3ulatmo: Batlj) Expenses*FALKIRK:PRIaNTED for the booksellers.1840,THE^Irasutfl 3rtOFMONEY CATCHING.When commerce and traffic were first begunin the world, a'id men came to trade one withanother, there was no use for money, nor needof it; for men bartered their goods in exchangewith each other ; and as in the infancy of theworld, some were tillers of the ground and otherswere keepers of sheep ; the one gave the othercorn, and took of their sheep in exchange for it. ;And this sort of trading is now generally in usein our foreign plantations, to supply the want ofmoney. But in process of time, as trading in¬creased, so did luxury begin to abound ; and asluxury abounded, so men’s wants grew greater,which begat a necessity of some other way of com¬merce, and this was money ; which is of such an¬tiquity, that Josephus tells us, that, Cain (the sonof Adam, and the first born of men) was verygreedy in gathering money together, though■j of what metal that money was made, and whetheri it was coined or not he is silent.Herodotus writeth that the first that coinedsilver and gold, to buy and sell with, were theLydians. For silver and gold being the mostprecious of metals, were so much valued, thatwhatever any man wanted, might be purchasedfor it.Homer indeed tells us that before the siege ofTroy, men used to change or barter one commo¬dity for another. But it is undeniable that moneywas in use long before that time ; for when Abra¬ham purchased the field of Machpelah, and thefield in which it was, for a burying-place for hisfamily, he gave four hundred shekels of silver for it;which the secret texts tells us was current moneywith the merchant; and that was about the yeari of the world 2088, which was near 700 yearsbefore the destruction of Troy. But though themoney was current with the merchant, yet Ii question whether it was coined or not; for it ra-t then appears, that it received its value from itsweight than from any stamp that was upon it:The weight of an shekel being a quarter of an ounceand the true value of that 15 pence of our money.Abraham paid £25 English money, for that burj-ing place.We read likewise of pieces of silver, or silver-lings, before this, w hich was current-money amongthe nation at that day ; for Abimelech, king ofSGerar, having taken Abraham’s wife from him,upon a supposition that she was his sister, when hecame to understand the truth of the matter, notonly restored his wife to him again, but also gavehim a thousand pieces of silver, or silverlings ; thevalue of which thousand pieces (each piece beingworth 2s 6d) came to 1251. which at that day wasa noble present for a king to give.But besides shekels and silverlings, there weretalents also, the weight of which was 75 ounces.A talent of silver contained the value of 1871. 10s.Of each of these coins there is frequent mentionin the Holy Scriptures of the Old Testament.In the New Testament, Our Saviour commandedPeter to take up the fish that first came to hand,and when he had opened its mouth he should findtherein a piece of money, which he was to takeand give the tax-gatherers for his Master andhimself: which piece of money was called a Stator,which consisted of half-an-ounce of silver, the va¬lue of which was 2 shillings. And when the Jewscame to ensnare our Saviour, about the lawfulnessof paying tribute to Cajsar, he desired them to shewthe tribute-money, and they shewed him a penny,of value 7d-half-penny ; and that this money wascoined and stamped, appeared by our Saviour’s ask¬ing them, whose image and superscription wasupon it ? To which they answered, Caesar.But I need not quote Scripture to prove thatthe Jews and Romans used to coin money, theimage aud superscription giving a value to it, andpromoting the currency of it; for silver was coin-ed in Rome, in the year of the world 3672, whichwas about 300 years before the Christian era.History tells us that silver was first of all coinedin the Isle Engine, and that in Rome it was stamp¬ed with the impression of a chariot and horses.And Janus caused brass to be coined with a faceon the one side, and a ship on the other, in me¬mory of Saturnus, who arrived there in a ship.Servius Tullius, a king of the Romans, first coinedbrass with the image of a sheep and an ox. And5in some places leather cut into pieces has had thestamp of'authoiity put upon't, and so it was madeto pass for money. And in new England, theIndians have money which they call Wampom-pege, which is of two sorts, one white, which theymake of the stem or stock of the periwinkle whichthey call Metauhockt, when all the shell is brokenoff; and of this sort six of their small beads, (whichthey make with holes to string the bracelets) arecurrent with the English for a penny. The othersort is black inclining to blue, which is made ofthe shell of a fish, which they call Pequanhock ;and of this sort three make an English penny.They who live upon the sea-side generally makeof it, and as many make as will, none being deniedthe liberty of making it. This coin or money theIndians set such a value upon, that they bringdown all sorts of furs which they take in thecountry, and sell to the Indians and English too,for this Indian money ; and the currency of itamong them, makes them look on it as a goodequivalent for what commodities they have to sell.Both the English, Dutch, and French treading tothe Indians with it, above six hundred miles northand south from England ; which is sufficient toshew, that the use of money is very ancient, andis made use of by all nations in trading with eachother; and was first invented as a medium in trade,and an equivalent to all sorts of commodities.6The Misery of those that uant Money,and are in Debt.There is no wise man that will covet moneyfor itself, but for the use that is to be made of it ;for money itself cannot satisfy ; and so we aretold by the wisest of men, Eccles. v. 10. “ He thatloveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver ;nor he that loveth abundance, with increase.”—In a time of famine, or in besieged city, a manmay have money enough by him, and yet maywant a piece of bread. Money therefore is prizednot for itself, but for its use, because, as Solomonalso says, “ Money answers all things.” Andseeing without money a man can have nothing,they must be very miserable that are without it.Charity, in this last and iron age of the world,is grown so cold, that there is scarce any thing tobe got upon that account. If you are cold, charitywill not warm you; neither, if you are hungrywill it fill your belly ; but if you have money,you may do both.If you have money, you may become one ofthe I-ivery-men of London, an Assistant a War¬den, or a master of a Company: but if you wantmoney, you will never arrive to the honour of abeadle; for even for such an inferior employmentyou must make friends, and that cannot be donewithout bribes, nor can you bribe without money.If you have money, you may be an honest man,and a good man ; but if you want money, you mustbe a knave by consequence.Enquire of a rch man among his neighbourswhat he is, meaning only whether he be a sub¬stantial man, and one that is responsible; and,7|jmen to be of one mind that dwell together inspire!us with a spirit of concord, and harmonize all ouri naturally selfish tempers. O let this benefit atileast be found from our family-devotion, that weagree better together, and live more in peace and| quietness, than those who call not upon thee; who: j lie down and rise up like the herd of the stall, ne-!ver saying, Where is God the Maker!Continue, we beseech thee, if it seemeth good to! thee, the voice of health and strength amongst us,i and the favour of thy prosperous providence; but| give us grace to expect and to be ready for aI change. For in a day, nay, in an hour, our; prosperity may be turned by thee into deep afflic-:ition, our health into pining sickness, our ease in-4 to tormenting pain, & our life into death. O Lord•God establish us in Christ Jesus, and give the ear-:<nest of thy spirit in our hearts, that whatever we■ i are called to suffer, we may not be afraid with anyr i amazement but bear our cross cheerfully, to theb; edification of those around us.Comfort and protect continually all our near re-s lations and dear friends. Sonctify to them theirtj present circumstances, whatever they are. Maythey mind the tilings of the Spirit, and never bei deluded by things of time and sense. Be theirj guide through life, and at death give them admis-i sion into thy kingdom and glory.Promote, O God, the peace and welfare of this' our country. Let thy servant, our most graciousl King, be continually guided by thy counsel, andr reign over us in righteousnsss. May he and hisn minister with unwearied labour seek to promotethy glory and his people’s good.Free and relieve all w ho are distressed or op ■pressed; regard their hearts, hear their sighs, and8an obligation; but he was resolved to heep touchwith him, though he lived so poorley all the whilethat he was the scorn of his neighbours and fel¬low tradesmen, who looked upon him as a poorand consequently a pitiful fellow : but for all that,though with much ado he had the good fortuneto pay back his uncle the £20 within the timelimited; which his uncle took so well, that hetold him, since he took such care to keep his word,he would remember him another time. And sohe did; for having neither wife nor child, whenhe died, he divided his estates amongst his relations,and left this poor kinsman of his thirty thousandpounds in ready money, and £1500 per annum.And now this poor man, whose poverty made himthe scorn of his neighbours and acquaintances be-;fore, became a very good man all on a sudden, iinsomuch that the city took notice of him, and !chose him sheriff the very next year; and thecompany that before refused to lend him £50,now chose him their master, and were ail his jhumble servants, and he was applauded and criedup by every one. Here was now' a mighty change, |and yet the man wuis the same still; it was money jonly made the difference. Judge, therefore, whe- ]ther w'ant of money be not an extraordinary mis- icry, and a great unhappiness.This puts me in mind of a story I have heardrelated of Jocelin Percy, Esq., brother to the ]Earl of Northumberland, who, going by a butcher’s ;shop, near Cow-Cross, affronted his dog, who |thereupon fell a-barking at him, and the Estjuiredrew his sword and run him through. Thebutcher, who wras troubled for the loss of his dog,charged a constable with the Esquire, who carriedhim before a Justice that knew him not; th9i Justice asked him why he killed the butcher’s dog ?I The Esquire answered him very carelessly, becausethe dog ran at him. Ran at you ! says Mr Justice.jHow did he run at you ? To which Percy (beinga comical sort of a man) replied, he lan at me thus,; Bough ! wough ! w'ough ! and therewith taking:a little run at the Justice, threw him and his:chair down together ! Which Mr. Justice looked(upon as such an affront to his worship, that nothingwould atone for, but committing him to Newgate,jaggravating the crime of killing the butcher’s dog,telling him, his dog was his servant, and that forfought he knew', himself or some of his gang, de¬signed to rob his shop; but he would make an ex¬ample of him. Percy seemed very little concernedat what the Justice said, which provoked him themore; and therefore he called the clerk to makeihis mittimus, who asking him what his name was,.:ihe said Jocelin, What besides Jocelin ? said the||Clerk, Percy, said he. Of what place? replied>ii|the clerk. Of Northumberland House, near toCharring Cross, said he. The Justice hearing thisand knowing there was a very comical gentlemanof that name who was brother to the Earl ofNorthumberland, then a great favourite with hisMajesty, changed his tone at once, and asked himif he was brother to the Earl ? On being answeredin the affirmative, he addressed himself to thebutcher in an angry tone, telling him that he wouldxamine into the affair, and that he would learnim better than let his dog loose to molest gentle-lan as they walked the street, and that he w'ouldnhave him bound over to the peace at the Quarter-Sessions for his future behaviour. Which hewould have done, and perhaps more, had notPercy interfered in his beholf. At this alteration10the poor butcher was terrified. The Justice thenaddressed himself to the Esquire, and begged hispardon for using him in such a manner, imputing itto his not knowing his quality. The Esquire,with a smile, replied that he must also beg hispardon for throwing him and his chair over. TheJustice answered, there was no offence.Thus we may see the misery of wanting money.The butcher could certainly have punished Percyfor killing his dog in such an unprovoked manner,and would have obtained it, had not the Justicediscovered Percy’s family, and let justice winkrather than offend the brother of a favourite ofhis Majesty’s. The poor butcher must not onlycontent himself with the loss of his dog, but beglad he escaped so well. It is just so, generallyspeaking, in every state of life; if a man be everso virtuous and of the best principles, if he wantsthat principle of principles, money, he wants everything, and is looked upon as a mean pitiful fellow:on the contrary, if a man be possessed of fhat,he has every thing, though otherwise of the mostconsummate ignorance, debauched life,vand insig¬nificant conversation.I confess, if we look backward into the betterand wiser ages of the world, virtue, though cloath-ed in rags, was more esteemed than the trappingsof the gold ass; it is in these last and worst ofdays that vice has got such an ascendant in theworld, as to make men think all that are poorare miserable ; for in the primitive times, poverty jwas the badge of religion and piety ; and well itmight, for not many great, nor many noble werecalled ; and the study of wisdom, and contempt of !the world was then in esteem among the wisestphilosophers in the earliest ages. But as Ovid,111The times are changed, and even weSeem changed with times to be.So that in those times, considering the misery ofwanting money is so great, we may say with thewise man, “ My son, it is better to die than tobe poorwhich saying was perhaps the occasionj of an old miser’s mistake, who bid his son observewhat Solomon said, “ Always keep a penny inJ your pocket.” But his son answered again, Hel» did not remember that Solomon said any suchi thing. The miser replied, “ Then Solomon wasr! not so wise as I took him to be.Indeed, money’s now become the worldly man’sfj god, and the card which the devil turns up trumphI to win the game ; for it gives birth, breeding,beauty, honour, and credit; and makes the posses¬sors think themselves wise, though their very think¬ing so, declares them fools. But because moneyanswers all things, and is in such vogue with theworld, therefore many are so willing to purchase itthough with the loss of soul and body.But the want of money does not only cause men,i to be condemned and ridiculed, but it also putsI men upon taking wicked and unlawful courses to| obtain it; which made one to say,O wretched poverty ! a tool thou’rt made,To every evil act and wicked trade.rtFor it wresteth and maketh crooked the best na¬tures ; which are forced by their necessities, to dothose things which they blush to think of whilethey are doing them ; such as borrowing, and notbeing able to pay, to speak untruths to cover anddisguise their poverty ; to deceive and sometimesto cheat their nearest relations; and all because,when they are in want, they are scorned and de¬spised, and perhaps disowned by them,But before I leave this subject, of shewing themijery of wantieg money, it is necessary I shouldsay sonrething of the misery of borrowing money,or running in debt, which is a consequence ofwanting money; for he that does not want hasno occasion to borrow, and is in that jespecthappy ; for being out of debt he is out of danger,and therefore needs not seek for by-ways to avoidhis creditors, but can walk in the open streetswithout fear, and whet his knife even at the gatesof the prison.But, on the contrary he that borrows money,has made himself such a slave to his creditors, thathe dares hardly say his head is his own, and isafraid that every one he meets is a searjeant or abailiff, that intends to captivate his outward taber¬nacle : like the man that in the night-time, havinghis coat catched by a nail, and so stopped, he pre¬sently cried out, “ at whose suit ? Supposing itwas a serjeant that had arrested him.The Causes of Men Wanting Money.Since Money is a thing so necessary and souseful, and the want of a competency of it, makesa man so very miserable, rendering him liable toall the scorn and contempt that an ill-naturedworld can throw upon him ; it seems strange somany should want it, especially those that knowthe worth of it. And therefore it may be worthour enquiring into the causes from whence thiswant proceeds; I mean the common and ordinarycauses ; for there are some cuuses that are extra-ordinary, such as all our wit and prudence canneither foresee nor avoid. Such was that extra¬ordinary and surprising storm in November 1703,whereby many thousands were undone as to theirestates, besides the many lives that were lost; andsuch also was the dreadful fire in London, wherebysome that had great estates the one week, hadscarce bread to eat the next: and in the time of warmany are unavoidably losers. But these must notbe reckoned the common and ordinary ways thatmake and keep men poor. We know, indeed,that by the divine providence, in the body of a: common-wealth there must be both poor and rich,I even as an human body cannot subsist withouti hands and feet to labour, and walk about to pro-m vide for the other members ; so the rich being thed| belly, which devour all, yet do no part of the»ii work ; but the cause of every man’s poverty isif not one and the same ; some are poor by condition;\l yet God raiseth up, as by a miracle, the childrenli and posterity of these, oftentimes to possess theit most emiiWnt places either in church or common-w wealth, as to become Archbishops, Bishops, Judges,ji Commanders-general in the field, Secretaries of<if State, Statesmen, and the like ; so that it provethIt not always true which the poet says,If poor thou art, then poor thou shall remain ;Rich men alone do now rich gifts obtain.J Of this condition are the greatest number in everytl kingdom ; others there are, who have possessed!j great estates, but these estates have not thrivenij or continued, being gotten by oppression, deceit,ijj usury, and the like, which commonly lasteth not14to the third generation, according to the poet,It seldom is the grandchild’s lot,To be the heir of goods not justly got.Others come to want and misery by spendingtheir fair estates in ways of vicious living, as ondrink and women; for Bachus and Venus areinseparable companions; and he that is familiarwith the one, is never a stranger to the other.In some way, manner, and end,Both wine and women do offend.Some again live in perpetual want, being natu¬rally wholly given to idleness. These are .thedrones of a common-wealth, who deserve not tolive. “ He that laboureth not, should not eat Labour night and day, rather than be burthen-some,” saith the Apostle Paul: both country andcity swarm with this kind of people ; “ The dili¬gent hand,” saith Solomon, “shall make rich ; butthe sluggard shall have a scarcity of bread.”I remember when 1 was in the Low Countries,there were three soldiers, a Dutchman, a Scot,and an Englishman, who for their misdemeanors,were condemned to be hanged; yet their liveswere begged by three several men, one a brick¬layer, that he might help him to make bricks, andcarry them to the walls; the other was a breweiof Delft, who begged his man to fetch water,and do other work in the brew-house; and thethird by a gardener, to help him to work in anddress a hop garden. The first two accepted theiroffers thankfully; but the last, the Englishman,told his master in plain terms, his friends had neverbrought him up to gather hops; and thereforedesired therefore to be hanged.15Others have had great estates left unto themby their friends, and who never knew the painand care of getting them, have, as one said truly,galloped through them in a very short time :these are such as Solomon speaketh of “ whohaving riches have no hearts, or rather the wit,to use them.” These men are most aptly com¬pared to the willow-tree, because the palms of thewillow-tree are no sooner ripe, but blown awaywith the wind.*I remember to have heard of a wealthy citizenof London, in Queen Elizabeth’s time, who lefthis son a great sum of money, who imagined heshould never be able to spend it; would usuallymake ducks and drakes in the Thames with shil¬lings, as boys were wont to do with the shreadsand oyster shells ; and at the end came to suchi; extreme want, that he was under the necessity ofborrowing- sixpence, having many times more shoes1 than feet, and sometimes more feet than shoes, as1 the beggar said in the comedy.Many also there are, who having been bornI to a good estate, have quite undone themselves byi marriage, and that after a twofold manner ; first,J| by matching themselves without advice of parentsj or friends, in- heat of youth, unto proud, foolish,V and light women, that one would better live onsmall allowance at a distance, than have a fullI meal at home, where he is always troubled withII her never ceasing tongue. And this is the reasonso many husbands travel beyond seas ; or at homego from town to town, or from tavern to tavern,to look for company ! and in a word, to spend anything, to live any where, save at home, in theirown houses, where they are sure to hear nothingbut the brawlings of a scolding woman.16DIRECTIONSHow persons may supply themselves withMoney at all times.Now, if you would ask me what course youshould take, or what you should do that wantethmoney; let him first bethink himself to whatprofession or trade he hath been formerly broughtup to. If of the inferior middle sort of trades¬men or artificers, (for those are chiefly concernedin this unhappiness) let such,First, be very diligent and industrious in theirrespective trades and callings, and not be slothfulin business.Secondly, Let him take heed of idleness, andall vain and idle companions, that loiter up anddown, and squander away their time as it wereof no value, though it is the most precious thingin the world, there being nothing in the worldthat is a more certain indication of ruin and de¬struction, than the wasting and mis-improving ofour time. And yet this is done by those thatwould take it ill to be charged therewith ; as forinstance, how many are there that spend a greatdeal of their time in Coffee-houses and Weekly-Clubs ! where, tho’ but little money is pretendedto be spent, yet a great deal of precious time issquandered away and lost! which many that fre¬quent these places never think of, but measuretheir expenses only by what they might havegained in the time by their labour, and what theymight have saved by keeping at their shops.Let us therefore reckon, when a tradesman goesto the Coffee-house or Alehouse to take a morn¬ing draught, (let it be of what liquor he wills,)while he is spending his twopence, smoking antitalking, he loses at least an hour of his time ;and in the evening he goes to his twopenny club,and there tarries from six till ten. Now, it mustbe a very poor trade, if in that time he could nothave earned a shilling. And if he keeps servants,the want of his presence at home may have oc¬casioned his losing as much as he could have gainedhimself; so that his spending a groat morning andnight, (which is twopence each time) cannot beaccounted less than than the loss of 2s 8d a-day,which comes to 14-s a week, and £36 10s a-year.which sum, if saved until his eldest son arrivedat 21 years of age, and so fit for marriage, and toset up in trade, would have amounted to £750 10s.They who would live so as not to want money,mu't avoid all such idle and needless expenses,and unnecessary loss of time.But if the person complaining of the want ofmoney, has been brought up to no trade, then lethim consider to what kind of life bis genius ornatural disposition does most of all incline him.If he cannot find employment in his own countryto suit his gerdus, (which can scarcely be supposedin a country such as Great Britain, where arts andscience are carried to the greatest perfection, andwhere a person of any genius, or of little genius,may find employment) let him seek his fortuneabroad. He may at once satisfy his curiosity,supply his necessity, and serve his country, bygoing into the army or navy, and thereby havean opportunity of doing btave actions in the ser¬vice of his country abroad, and there he may18come to advantage both his fortune and family.—If he inclines not the employment of the army ornavy, he may find something to suit him in ourPlantations in the East and West Indies, and inAmerica, in all which places many a man hathdone well, who could do nothing at home. Thus,you shall find contentment to your conscience tobe in action, which God commands us all to be.The times, in no age, was so hard as to denyindustry and ingenuity a livelihood ; and, in aword, rather to be in misery for want of money,let a man undertake any vocation and labour, andNever think the labour coarseThat puts a penny in his purse.The want of money is a great torment, andoften puts men on unlawful shifts to procure it:therefore let every one who has got money, becareful to know its worth : for since we ore bornwe must live, and it is hard to live upon r. smallshare of it. And to conclude this chapter, let usbe always careful to get, and cautious in spendingmoney ; and when you have it, know how to keepand how to use it, when there is occasion; formoney in your pocket is the best companion. Asone observed, “ be a good husband, and thou wiltsoon get a penny to spend,a penny to lend, anda penny for thy friend.” For I would have noneto he such misers as to gain money only to keep,and not to make use of it; for to such, moneyis the greatest curse, of which the world has beenfurnished with many instances.Gain a penny, spend a penny,(Says the frugal man ;)But if you spend before you gain,You’ll ne’er be merry then.=19DIRECTIONSHow to turn a Penny to Advantage.MY first directions shall be that all such personsas design to thrive in the world, should alwaystake care not to spend a penny idly ; for that theythereby may purchase a square yard (or three feet)of good land. This, how improbable soever itmay seem, is an undoubted truth, as will appear•by the following demonstration.1. Sixteen feet and a half, make one rood2. Forty such roodsin length, (that is 660 feet)and four such roods in breadth, (that is 66 feet)ake an acre of land.3. Now, multiply 660 feet, (the length of anacre) by 66 feet, (the breadth of an acre) and theproduct will be 43,560 square feet, and so manyn acre contains.4. Land that will let at 20s an acre, per annum,an acre of which, if sold at 20 years purchase,may be bought for £20, that is for 4800 penc^.5. Now, if you divide 43,560, (the number ofpence for which an acre may be purchased,) theuotent or product thereof is 9, and 360 remain¬ing; which shews that every penny does purchasethree square feet (that is, three feet long, and threebroad) of such land, and somewhat above, whichs what was to be demonstrated; and consequent¬ly it follows, that for every two shillings, you maypurchase 216 square feet; that is a piece of groundof 18 feet long, and 12 feet bioad, which isenough to build a little house upon, or make a littlegarden, which being well planted, the fruit there-20of may every year make a man blush to think heshould spend the smallest sum unnecessarily, byimmoderate eating, drinking, cloathing, familyor pocket expences, which perhaps impairs hishealth besides, and exposes him to the reproachand ridicule of In’s neighbours, when he has sofair a way to turn those idle-spent pence to hisown advantage. But if a man has not a mind topurchase land with his penny, he may turn itseveral other ways to still greater advantage, intrade and commerce.But there is more required in the art of thrivingand turning the penny to advantage than most 'men imagine ; it is true diligence is good ; but aman can never thrive as he should do, withouthe looks higher than all tip's. I remember I have .somewhere read the following verses :Spare not, nor spare too much, be this thy care,Spare but to spend, and only spend to spare ;Who spends too much may want, and so complain, jBut he spends best that spares to spend again.Plow, sow, and reap, and then to heaven call,That its kind blessing may on your labour fall ;’ Lis vain to look for profit from what’s given.Unless you get the blessed dew from heaven.And indeed, unless we are under the influences jof a blessing from heaven, all our own endeavours,how strenuous however they may be, will nevermake us thrive; for as the royal Psalmist ex¬cellently observes, “ Except the Lord build thehouse, they labour in vain that build it. Exceptthe Lord keep the city, the watchman walketh butin vain.” So it is in this case, except the Lordgive a blessing, our endeavours will be in vain.ANew Method for Ordering Expenses.It is very hard for an open and easy nature| to keep within the compass of his fortune ; eitherI shame to be observed behind others, or else a vain-i glorious itching to out do them, leaks away tillli the vessel be low or empty ; so that nothing in-jf volves a man in more unhappiness than a heedless: letting go, in an imprudence of mis-spending ; for;i it alters the very frame and temper of the mind.B' When want comes, he that was profuse before,easily grows rapacious. It is extreme unhappiness|| to be thus composed of extremes, to be impatientn! both in plenty and want. And therefore let everynji man, for the better 01 dering of his expenses ob-n serve the following rules.1. See that your comings in be more than yourlayings out; for unless this be minded a man mayI waste away his substance to nothing insensibly.I If your income extend your expenses but twentyll shillings a-year, you are in a thriving condition ;il but if, on the contrary, your expenses exceed yourincome, you are in the highway to ruin.2. Keep an exact account of what you lay out,Brand what you receive; for without this, you willd be always in the dark.3. Balance your accounts at least once every!> quarter; and then you will the better see how thei case stands with you, and so may the better re-t trench matters, if you find you have exceeded.4. In laying out your money, trust not to yourIt servants ; for in small matters they may deceiven you and you be never the wiser; and many sucht small matters may amount to a great sum.5. In all your affairs of moment, look after yourbusiness yourself if you wish to succeed.6. Be always sparing, that you may still havewherewithal to spend.7. Never spend presently, in hopes of gainingfor the future. Wise merchants, while their goodsare at sea, do not increase their expenses on land,but fearing the worst, secure what they have al¬ready in their hands.8. Never buy but with ready-money : and buywhere you find things cheap and good rather thanfor friendship or acquaintance sake ; for they per¬haps may take it unkind, if you will not let themcheat you. For you may get experience, if no¬thing else, by going from one shop to another.9. Be ready to give a good advice to all, butbe security for none. And if a friend or relationpress you to it, refuse it, and rather, if you can,lend him upon another’s bond.10. Let not thy table exceed the fourth partof thy revenue. And let thy provision be solid,and not far fetched ; fuller of substance than art.Be wisely frugal in thy preparation, and freelycheerful in thy entertainment, Too much is vanity, and enough is feast.11. If thou wouldst in a little time arrive to • iworldly preferment, be very industrious in thycalling, be what it will; that which is so sparingsaved, may be with diligence improved. It hathbeen observed, that it is not less gainful to navi¬gate in a smail vessel which makes quick and fre¬quent returns, than in that which returns butseldom, though deeply laden. Therefore Solo¬mon directs the sluggard to go to the bee and ant:which infirm creatures plainly show how muchthe assiduity of industrious labour can effect.723A few serious and necessary Advices to; all those that desire to thrive in the world,i and have the blessing of God with it.1. Assure yourself there can be no honestI thriving without the fear of God, and the exer-: cise of a good conscience, and therefore, above allI things, disengage yourself from that business andJ those diversions that stand in opposition with that; godly fear, that ought to be a guide to you in allI j your actions.2. Avoid the company of all vicious persons,whatsoever as much as you can ; for no vice isalone, and all are infectious ; Especially avoid allsuch persons as are scandalous, either for profes¬sion or manners, for you run his hazard, and| espouse his disreputation ; and such as are swear-si ers, prophane blasphemers, &c.3. Be sure not to keep company with drunkards!i and busy bodies, and all such as are apt to talkjl much to little purpose ; for no man can be pro-r vident of his time, that is not prudent in the choicetil of his company.4. Beware of idleness, and fill up the empty|! spaces of your time in useful employments ; forr vice creeps in, when the soul is unemployed, andt the body at ease.5. Avoid the filthy sin of whoredom, whichbrings the curse of God upon men’s bodies andestates: “ For a whorish woman is a deep ditch,and he that is abhorred of the Lord, shall falltherein.”6. Pray to God when you begin any work,that by his help, you may bring it to a good con.A elusion.24\To be observed by all who wish to thrive.PROVERBS.When riches increase, the body decreaseth ;For men grow old before they grow rich.Spend and be bee, but do not waste.Who more than he is worth doth spend,The table robs more than the thief.Trade is the mother of money.When the tree is fallen every man goeth to it withhis hatchet. Or, when the man’s down, downwith him.For want of a nail the shoe is lost;For want of a shoe the horse is lost.For want of a horse the rider is lost.To him that is willing, ways are not wanting.They must hunger in frost that will not work inheat.Go not to the physician on every disoider;Nor to the lawyer on every quarrel;Noi to the tavern always when dry.Patience,time, and money, accommodate all things.Prayer and provinder hinders no journey.Fear nothing but sin.Will be a beggar at the end.Whoso spendeth more than he should,Shall not have to spend when he would.FINIS.