THE LASTSERMONO F T H EReverend JAMES HERVEY, D. D.Reftor of Wefton-Favell, in Northamptonfhire.CONTAINING,A WALK TO THE BURYING PLACE*WITH1 Obfervations on the Death of a wicked Perfon*FROM DEUT. XXIX. 19.i 0 that they were wife to conjidif their latter end*TO WHICH IS ADDED,A HYMN ON THE LAST JUDGEMENT* *$•G L A S G O W,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,m » c e x «C 2 )'#) * * & t * t * t (&) 13SC (t) B t * + (t)INSTRUCTIVE LESSONS.OH that they were wife, faid the infpircdwriter, it was his lafl wifli for his dearpeople j he breathed it out, and gave up theghoft. But what is wil'dom ; it confifts not inrefined fpeculations, accurate refearches int©nature, or an univerfal acquaintance with htf-tory. The divine Law-giver fettles this impor¬tant point in his next alpirafion; O that theyundcrftood this! that they had right apprehen-fions of their fpiritual intereft, and eternalconcerns! that they had eyes to difcern, andinclinations to purfue the things that belongto their peace ? But, how ftiall they attainthis valuable knowledge; I lent them not torun over all'the volumes of literature, theymay much more expeditioufly acquire this fci-ence of life, by confidering their latter end. ‘This fpark of heaven is often loft under theglitter of pompous erudition, but {bines clear¬ly in the gloomy raanfions of the tomb;drowned in the gentle whifper, amidfi: the noifeof mortal affairs, but fpeaks difiinftly in theretirements of ferious contemplation. Be¬hold how providentially I am brought to thefchool of wifdom : The grave is the moft faith¬ful mailer, and thefe inftances of mortality,the moft inftru&ive klfons. Come then,calm attention, and compofe my thoughts:come thou celeftial Spirit and enlighten myp.tind j that I may fo eafily perafe thefe aw'-fulfu! pages as to become wift unto falvation.Examining the records of Mortality, I: found the memorials of a promifcuous multi¬tude. They were huddled, at leaft they reft-1 ed together, without any regard to rank orfeniority. None were ambitious of the upper-»: moft rooms, or chief feats, in the houfe ofmourning. None entertained fond and eagerI cxpe&ation of being honourably greeted intheir darkfome cells. The man of years and■ experience reputed as an oracle in his genera¬tion, was content to lie dowm at the foot of aI babe. In this houfe appointed for all living,! the fervant was equally accommodated, and! lodged in the fame ftory with his mailer. Thei poor indigent lay as foftly, and flept as found-1 ly, as the mod oppulent profeffor ; all the di-1 llin&ion that fubfifted was a graffy hillock.Si bound vmh ofiers ; or a fepulchral Hand or-i namented with imagery.Why then, faid my working thoughts, Oh,I why fhould we raife fuch a mighty llir aboutS; fuperiority and precedence, when the next re-i move wdll reduce us all to a date of equalt meannefs ? why fhould wc exalt ourfelves, or» debale others, fince we mull all one day be| upon a common level, and blended togetherin the fame undidinguilhcd dull ? Oh that thisconfideration might humble rny own, and o-thers pride ; and fink our imaginations as lowas our habitation will fhortly be.Among thefe eonfufed relicks of humani¬ty, there are without doubt, perfons of coatra-i ry interells and contradicting fentiments, but1 death hke an able days-nian, has laid his hand\ I fon the contending parties, and brought alltheir differences to an amicable conclufion. \Here enemies, fworn enemies, dwell togetherin unity. They drop every imbittered thought,and forget that they once were foes. Per- ‘haps, their crumbling bones mix, as theymoulder, and thofe who, while they lived,flood aloof in irreconcileable variance, herefall into mutual embraces, and even incorpo¬rate with each other in the grave. Oh thatwe might learn from thefe friendly aflies* notto perpetuate the memory of injuries ; not tofoment the fever of refentment, nor cherifhthe turbulence of paffion ; that *hcre may be|s little animoftty and difagreement in the landof the living, as there is in the congregationof the dead !Here the man of bufinefs forgets all his fa¬vourite fchenjes, and difeontinues the purfuitof gain. Here is a total Hand to the circula¬tion of merchandife, and the hurry of trade.In thefe folitary recedes, as in the building ofSolomon’s temple, is heard no found of ahammer and axe. The winding-fheet, and thecoffin, are the utmofl bound of all earthly de¬vices : Hitherto may they go, but no further.Here the fons of pleafure take a final farewelof their dear delights.The wicked feem to lie here, like male¬factors in a deep and ftrong dungeon ! refer-ved againft the day of trial.--Their departurewas without peace. Clouds of horror iet low-ring upon their clofing eye-lids, mod fadlyforeboding Ihe blacknefs oi darknefs for everWhen the laft fickucfs feized theirframe,andand the inevitable change advanced : Whenthey faw the fatal arrow fitting to the firings,faw the deadly archer aiming at their life ; andfelt the invenomcd fliaft, fafiened to their vit¬als Good God! what fearfulnefs came up¬on them! What horrible dread overwhelmedthem ! How did they (land fliuddering uponthe tremenduous precipice ; exceffively afraidto die, yet utterly unable to live! O what palereviews, what fparkling profptQs cor.fpire toaugment their forrows ;—they look backward,and behold a moft melancholy feene! Sins un¬repented of, mercy flighted, and the day ofgrace ending. They look forward, and no¬thing prefents itfelf but the righteous Judge,the dreadful tribunal, and a moft folemn rec¬koning. They roll around their affrightenedeyes on attending friends. And, if accompli¬ces in debauchery, it fharpens their anguifh,to confider the further aggravation of theirguilt, that they have not finned alone, butdrawn others into the fame fnare. If religiousacquaintance, it ftrikes a frefh fiafh in theirhearts, to think of never feeing them anymore, but only at an unapproarhable diflance,feparated by the unpalfable gulph.At laft, perhaps they began to pray : Find¬ing no other way of poflible relief, they areconfirained to apply unto the Almighty. Withtrembling lips and faultering tongue, they cryunto that lovereign Being, who kills andmakes alive-—— But 'why, O why have fheydeferred their addrefies to heaven fo long fWhy have they defpifed all his fcoimfels, andftood incorrigible under his inceflant repronf?How ■( 6 )How often have they been forewarned of thefeterrors, and mod importunately intreated, toturn to the Lord!—Fwifli, they may find fa¬vour at this laft hour. But alas ! who can tellwhether affronted Majedy will lend an ear totheir complaint ? He may for ought any mor¬tals know, laugh at their calamity, and mockwhen their fear cometb.Thus they lie groaning out the poor re¬mains of life, their limbs bathed in fweat,their heart druggling with convulfive throbs;pain infuperable, throbbing thro’ every pulfe ;and innumerable darts of agony transfixingtheir confcience.If this be the end of the ungodly; My foulcome not thou into their fecrct, unto their ajfem-bly mine honour he net thou united! Oh howawfully accotnpliflied is that prcdi&ion of in-fpired wifdom ! fin, tho* fecmingly fweet in thecommijfon, in the ijfue biteth like a ferpent, andJiingeth like an adder.Happy diffolution, were this the period oftheir woes. But alas, all their tribulations, areonly the beginning of forrows ; one fmall dropof that cup of trembling, which is mingled fortheir future portion.—No fooner has the ladpang diflodged the reluclant foul: but theyare hurried into the prefence of an injured an¬gry God : not under the condu&ing care ofbeneficent angels, but expofed to the infults ofcurfed fpirits wrho lately tempted them, nowupbraiding them, and will for ever tormentthem Who can conceive their confufion anddidrefs; when they dand guilty and inexcufa-bie, before their inccnfed Creator ? They arereceivedreceived with frowns : ‘The God that madethem, has no mercy on them : The Prince ofPeace, the Fountain of Felicity, rejt&s themwith abhorrence, he configns them over tochains of darknefs* and receptacles of defpair,againft the feverer doom, and more public in¬famy #f the great day : Then all the phialso: wrath will be emptied upon thefe wretchedcreatures: The law they have violated, andthe gofpel they have flighted, the power theyhave defied, and the goodnefs they have a-bufed: will all get themfelves honour in theirexamplary deltruftion. Then God, the Godto whom vengeance belongeth, will draw thearrow to the very head, and fet them as themark of his inexhorable difpleafure.Refurre&ion, will be no privilege to them,but immortality itfe£ their everlafting eurfe—Would they not bid's the grave, that land!•where all things are forgotten, and wilh to lieeternally hid in its deepeft gloom ; but thedull refufes to conceal their perfons, or drawa vail over their pra&ices. They alio mullawake, mull arife ; mult appear at the bar,and meet the Judge, a Judge before whom thepillars of heaven tremble, and the earth melt a*way ; a Judge once long-fuffering and verycompafiionate, but now unalterably deter¬mined, to teach flubborn offenders what it is,to provoke the Omnipotent Godhead, whatit is to trample on t llC blood of his Son, andoffer defpite to all the gracious overtures ofhis holy Spirit, to whom be glory, honour,and immortal praife, now, and for eveemore.Amen.ON( 8 )ON THE LAST JUDGEMENT.SING to the Lord ye heavenly holts.And thou, O earth! adore.Let death and hell through all their coalts.Stand trembling at his power.His founding chariot lhakes the Iky,He makes the clouds his throne.There ail his (lores of lightning lie,Till vengeance dart them down.His noltrils breath out fiery Itreams^And from his awful tongue,A fovereign voice divides the flames,And thunders roar along.Think, O my foul, the dreadful day.When this incenfed GodShall rend the Iky, and burn the fea,And fling his wrath abroad.What lhall the wretch the (inner do ?That once defied the Lord,But he (hall dread the thunderer now.And fink beneath his word.Temped of angry dorms (hall rage,To blaft the rebell’d worm.And bear upon his naked foul.In one eternal dorm.Infinire joy or endlefs woe.Attends on every breath.And yet how unconcern’d we go.Upon the brink of death. ;FINIS,