T H EHISTORYANDCOMICAL TRANSACTIONS OFLothian Tom,insix parts.Wherein is contained aColle&iot*of roguifli Exploit*done by him, both in Scotland and England.!EDINBURGH:Printed, by J. Jiorren, Eafl Campbell's Ck/e>Cwgaiei•I MM$mT H SLife and Comical Tranfa&ions ofLOTHIAN T O-M.rjPHi3 Thomas Black, vugnrly called Lothian T.'wt,becauie of that countiy, was born four milesfrom Edinburgh, his father being a very wealthyfarmer, who gave him a good education, which hewas very auk ward in receiving, being a very wild,cfofs, milchievous boy.When he was about ten years of age, he was ai¬med killed by the droke of a horfe foot, which hi#father had; who had a trick of kicking at every per-fon that came in behind him. But when fo:u wasgot healed of the dreadful wound, whereof manythought he would have diet!, to be even with thehorfe, he gets a clog or piece of tree, which was fullof wooden pins; a thing which the Ihoemakers ufedto tann their leather upon; and with a rope, he tiedit to the couple balk of'the ftable, dire&iy oppohteto the horte’s tail, got upon the balk, and.gives it afwing bacr, fo that the pikes in the end of it camewith a full drive againd the horfe’s arie, which madshim to fling, aad the more he flruck and flung a', it,it rebounded back again and ftruck him ; the battleladed with great fury for a long tiae, which wasgood diversion to Tom, until hi* father hwtrkig fooasdidurbance in the dable, came in to know the matter,and was furprifed when he fa# the poor horie '•sa¬iling his own hide, with his legs all cut and bloody,with kicking againd the pikes of the tanners ftool; fo hecut the rope and the battle Was ended, bu* the poorboric would never kick at any thing that came behindhim afterwards, but always would run from it.It happened cne day that Tom went a fifiling, andbrought home a few fmallfifn, which his grandmothr scat fnapt up in the dark; fo Tom, to have juthce 61the cat for fo doing, catohes her, and puts her intoa little tub or cogboin, then lets her a drift into themill dam, ordering.her to go a fiihing for herielf.then lets two or three dogs upon her, where a niottterrible fea-fight enfued, as ever was feen on frefhwater : for if any of the dogs eflayed to board her,by fettmg in over tFieir n©fe, baderens c?.me flying tothat quarter to repulfe him with her claws, fo thatthe vefl'tl was like to overfet by the weight of herielt,that fiie had to flee to the other, and finding the lamethere, from thence to the middle, where, file mewing,always turned herfelf about, and combed herroie withher foot. The old woman being informed ot the dan¬gerous fuuation of her dearly helot ed cat came fan¬ning with a long pole to beat off the dogs and haul herafliore. What now, fays Tom, if you be going to takepart with my enemies, you (hall have part of theirreward; then gives the old woman lech a p ih thatfile tumbled into the dam, over head and ears, befideher beloved cat, and would there have undoubtedlyperiflied in the water, had not fame of the people whoWe there, looking at the diverfon, come to herAfter this Tom was fent to the fchool, to keep hishand out of an ill turn; and haying an old cankeredcrab wilted fellow for his dominie, they were alwaysat variance, for if Tom got his whips,- which he oftendeferved, he was fare to be revenged Upon his malteragain for .it. So when Tom perceiving his matterhad a clofe ftool in a little clofet wubin the fehoohwhere he went and euled himfeif, when need \\as,Tom gets a pennyworth of gun powder, and Itnnbledit enthe ground, direaiy before the feat, and laysKttle, of i.; along in a train to the firefule, then percei •>ving when his mafler went to it, and he was loofingdown his, breeches, fet fire to thet rain, which blew itail up about his mailer’s bare hips, which fcorchedhim moll terribly, btfules' the fright, for which Tomwas feverely whipt, yet in a little alter i e began’toitiidy revenge on his mailer.So it happened, one day, ns Tom went into themailer’s houfe,, the good wife was ftoaping intothe big meal barrel to bring out fome meal; therehe takes her by tiie feet and coups her up into thebig meal barrel k'n her head down and her barebacklide npp:rmod, then runs, into the ichool cry¬ing, “ Oh! mailer, matter, the dell’s looking outo’ yonr neal itand, wi a 1at, fat face, and a black illfar’d face, nna a black ugly mouth; yon’s juft theauld Nick an’ he be living.” At this the mailer ran*ith all the fpeed he could to fee what it was, andfound it to be his own wife fpeechtefs, and almoftfmothered; to cic. th, tut as ihe could not tell whodid it, Com got clear off, yet he was not fatisfiedWithout fome more vengeance on the o’d fellow,and knowing that his nuitter :ts&d' a fafhion, wheuhe was going to whip the boys, if they would notloofe t'.vre breeches willingly, he drew his knife,and cut. them, through the waiftband behind ; folorn goes to a butcher, and gets a raw puddingand fills it With , blood and water, and puts it inwithin .the waiuband of his breeches ; then goes tothe ic.hooi next* day, and as the mailer was fittingwith his-back towards the fire Tom lights a pieceof paper, and lets Ins wig in low which burnt foriome time u>jperieiVed, until the flame came fee¬zing about his ears, he lirft put out the wig bytrampling it upon the ground with his feet and be¬ing informed that Torn did it he flies to him in ardge ordering; him to loofe his breechs, but Tomtold him he ,vas never fo mad; Then he dr;w iu&knife whips poor Tom over his knee, &nd with.great kicking and ftruggiing cuts the waift band ofhis treehces, through pudding and” all. To that theb:ood gullied' out and Torn cried murder, murder,and down he fell. The poor dominie went out ofthe door crying, and wringing his hands. ^ Wordflew about that Tpm was "ick#d by the dominie;which made the people come tuning from fevcralparts of the country round about to fee how it was,but fearching for the^ wound, found none but theempty pudding Toot came rnning home all be-fmear-d with blond at the ugh: whereof his fathercry’d- what’s the matter Tom ? To which he madeno anfwer: fearching him the trick was difeovered,aiid poor Toni received a fevere ehaftifement-' lomto be revenged on his father, rofe in the night timeand broke the fauld tind let out the cattle amongfchis father’s corn, and gc^s tombed again, this he/ tlkl unperceived. Next merging the neighbours©bferving the cattle lying among!! the corn, camexunning and told his father how they had de-Jlroycd all his vi&ual, for they had eat till they had' like to burft AH this time Tom lay in his' bed,and his father much vexed at his lazineis told himthat he fhouId never have the benefit of more fchnol-ing as his mailer had To many grievous complaints3gainft him; at which Tom rejoiced within him-felf as he did not value learning, nor-put it in bal-ance with his defigned tricks; Torn then fcatnpered^away and meeting with an egg cadger coming toEdiburgh, defired him to alight from his horfeand he would give him a dram at the Fallow kirk,at which the poor man was glad, and went in withhim; Torn called for two drams, and made thecadger drink hearty, in the mean time Tom flips•ut and mounts the cadgeV’s horfe and put a foot-each "creel, a'nd made the eggs all caddie, and( 7 )then difmoanted and'ran, fo that the poor cadgerloft his tg'sa, and htCd the drams to pay for.Tom was always playing tricks to his grandmo-t ther as he knew ftte was rich and would part withnothing to him; he lays wait one night and con-coals himfelf in a corner until all was at reft, Tomrites and takes the keys of a drawer and flips outabout forty ^hillings and fets off to Dalkeith on aThuridayv where his grandmother’s fervant girl came4 that day; Tom was fpending largely and the girl* who knew that Tom had no money, came home7 and told his grandmother that Tom had taken away! h-r money, this ip enraged him, that he laftied herbuttocks w ith his whip in fo unmerciful a manner,that with the ftnart and fliame together, (he hadnot the Jealt inclination'to fleep for the remaining1: part of the day.Font being grown up to the years and age of aman, thought himfeK more wifer*and flyer than bisfather ; and there was feveral things about the houfehe liked better than to work, fo he turned to be adealer agiong the brutes, a couper of horfes and? cows, ’See. and even wet Ware among ft the brewersand brandy fiiops. until he couped himfelf to the: toom halter, and then his parents would fupplybin* no more. He knew well his grandmother hadl. plenty of money, but {he would give him none: but> the old woman had a good black cow of her own,; which lom went' to the. fields one evening andcatches, and takes her into an old wafte houfe,L he kept her two or three days giving her meat andI drink, when it wm dark at night, and made the oldI woman believe-fothebody bad ftole tbie cow forS'-, their winter mart, which was- grief enough to theL old woman, for the lol's of her dearly beloved co’i| However, ihe employs Tom to get to the fair thatl was near by, and buy her another, gives him threeI? pounds, whidi Tom accepts very thankfully, andprotnifed to buy one as like the otlier as poflible hecould get : then he gets a Piece of chalk and braysit as fmall as meal, ane ftecps. it in a little water,and therewith rubs over the cow‘5 face ai d backvC'htch made her both brocket and rigget; fo Tomin the morning takes the cow to a public houfe,within a little of the fair, and there left her till thefair was over, and then drives Iter feme before him,and as foon .as they came home the cow began to. rout as fhe ufed to do, hi. h nude the old womant® rejoice thinking it was her own black cow, butwhen hie faw her white face, fightd and faid,‘‘alas! thou 11 never be like the kindly brute myblack lady, end yet rents as like her as cny I everdid hear ; but Tom fays to himfelf, the mercy isyou know not, in two or three days the old womanput ionh her bra’ rigget cow in the morning withthe reft of the neh h’ueurs cattle, but it came on afore day of heavy rain, which waftied away all thowhite fram her face and back ; fc the old. woman’sblack lady came home at night and her rigget cowwent cway with the {bower and was never heardof. But om's father having feme fufpi. ion andlooking narrowly into the cow's face found fomeof the chalk not waftied away : and then he gavopoor Tom a hearty beating and fent him away tofeek his fortune with a Ikinfu! of fore bones.PART II-rT,OM being ^turned to hia ft lifts ccnfxPrs withhimfelf how to raife a hitle money, gets along llring as near as he could guels to be thelength of his motherland into Edinburgh he goes,to a vvright, who was aquainied with his father andmother, the wright a{ked him how he did? he an-fwered him very - foberly, for, he had loft a gooddutiful mother laft night, and there’s a meafure ofher coffim. Tom wept out and flawed Tome time andthen comes in again, tells the vvrigiit lie did notTaiowwhat to do, for his father had ordered him toget money from fuch a man which he named, andwas that day gone out of the town; the weight a Ikedhinj how much he wanted; to which he anfwercd,a guinea a'nd a half might do, or thirty (hillings atlealt i fo he gave him the guinea and the hail ; thenTom gave him (tri£t charge to be ouuon the morningsgainlt eleven o'clock with the coffin, and he lliouldhave his money altogether. Tom fet out for the ale.houfe with the money', and lived well while it laded,Next morning the vright and his lads goes- outwith the coffin, and as they were going into thehoufe, Tom’s mother v?as Itanding at the door; anduffiedthe mafter how he did, and where he whs going-with the coffin i he did not know well what to fay,being fo furprifed to fee her alive ; but at lad he toldher that it was made defignedly for her, and thather foh had come in the day before and had got aguinea and a half from him, which he faid was toboy other nectflaries for the funeral O the rogue,,laid die, he has played me that ; So the wrh ht gothis guinea and a half, and To much for his trouble,a..d had to take bask his-coffin with him again.. om beih,; now fhort of money again, began tothink ho w he would raife fr.eih fupply ; fo he wentto the part anron > the. fiieartrs, and there hiresabout thirty of them, and agrees to give them awhole weeks dlearing at ten Pence a day which wastwo pence higher then they had got that year.Tliis made the poor (hearers think that he was ashoned, a cnarous, genteel a mader, as ever they hadgot, for he took them into an alehouiVand he gavethem a hearty breakfad till they could eat no more.Now, fays he, “when there are fo many of you to¬gether, out of diderept Parts and' unacquainted -with( I© )®oe another} I do rtot know, but there may fome o£you be hrneft men, and Jo me of you rogues, andyou are all to lye in one barn together, any of youwho his* got money, you’ll be fafeil to give it to me,and I’ll mark it down in my book with your names,'and what I receive from each of you, you fhall have iit again on Saturday flight when you get yourwages,O very well good man, take mine, take mine, everyone cry^d fafter than another : 1‘ome gave him five,fix, feven, and eight {hillings,-even all they hadearned through the whole l arvetT, which amountedto near feven pounds Sterling, having got all the ,money, he goes out with them till about three milesout of the town, pnd coming to a great field of cornthough fomething green, yet being convenient forhis purpofe, as it lay at a confiderable diftance fromany houfe or perfon, fo he made them begin there,telling them he was going to order dinner for themand fend his own fervants to join them : away hegoes with all the fpsed he could, but takes anotherroad into the town, left they fliould follow and catchhim. Now when thejpeople to whom the corn belongedfaw fuch 4 band in the field, they could not under-fUnd the meaning of it, but the - ood man to whomthe corn belonged, went off crying always as he runto ftop, but they wotild not, until he began to beatthem, and they at him, he being in a great paffion,as the corn waa/tdt fully ripe ; at laft, by force of ar- !guroent, and other pe«ple coming up to the poorSie&rers, they were convinced they had gotten thebite, which made them to go away lamenting theirmUfortnne.In two or three days thereafter as Com was go« ji»g-ck>wn the Canongate, he meets one of his (hear¬ers who knew him, kept faft by hina, demanding‘ ■’ money and latisfadion for the reft ; whift, whift,; . and you'll get' yours and i^raething elfe.ot*»uc. oo Tom takes him into the jail, and callsfor a bottle of ale, and a dram, then ,takez the jalffor, afide, as if he had been going to borrow the?mon y from him, and faya to the jailor this martis a great thief; l and two others have been in'fearchof him thefe tnree days, and the other two,men have the warrant with them, you fhall havea guinea in reward ; yes, faid the jailor go, andI’ll fix the rogue for you Tom goes out, leav¬ing,the innocent fellow and the jailor Strugglingtogether and then fet oiT for England dire&ly.PART HI..nPGM having row left his own native cobntry,went into the country of Northumberland,and hired himielf to an old mifer of a farmer : andhere he continued for leveral years, performing thei duty’ in fervtce well enough, though fometimesplaying.a roguifli trick to thole about him ; his maf-ter had a very naughty cuftom, that he would al-low/them no candle at night, to fee with when atdripper : Tom one night fets himftlf ne:.t to hismatter, /and as they were all abeut to fall on,Tom puts his ipoon into the raidft of the dilli wherethe crowdy was hot left and clapt a fpoonful intof his mailer’s mouth. \ pox on you for a rogue,t cried his mailer, for my mouth is all burnt ; a poxupon you for a mailer, fays Tom, for you keep ar houfe as dark as purgatory I was going to my own| mouth with that ibup and mill the way, it beingfo dark ; don t ,think, mailer, that I am fuch a bigfool as to feed you, while I have a mouth of myf own. So from that night Tom burnt his mall ex’-mouth with the hot crowdie, they always got aj candle to drew them light at nipper ; for his mailer' would feed no more in the dart while Tom wasprefent.There was a fervant girl in the houfe, who al-| ways when Ihe made the beds neglected to makejin’s ^k1 would have him to imhe it himfelf,• i'll rhea, fays Tom, I have Harder work to do,•4«u ;f Qiall do that too So next day, when Tom: as. ir. • ;ie field at the plough,-when he'f w his maf-’ >imng, frooi the houle. towards him, He thenhe horfes and the plough iiandin^ in the field,-nd goes aw^ay towards lijs mailer, w ho cried, whatis w tong or is any thing broke ? No no, fays Tom,out I 'm going home to mske my bed, it has notoecn made thofe two .weeks, and it is jult now a-. bout the time the maid makes all the reft, fo 1 11gc home and make mine too, No, no, ftfrah, goDa k to yotir plough, and 111 caufe it to be madeevery night for you, eh n fays Tom, I’ll plow twoor three furrows more in the time.i here was a butcher came to his nafter’s, andbougnt a fine fat calf fo Tom laid it on the hor¬de's nepk; before the butcher, and when he was goneTom fays, now matter, what will you hold but 111ileal that calf from the butcher, before he goes twomiles off i Why, fa\ s his matter. I'll hold- you a guineayou den’c, done fay s Tom, in he goes a*id gets a-goyd fhoe cf his matter’s, and rnus off ‘another wayacrofs the fields until he got before , the butcher-nearto a hedg.'r, fvhere there was an open and turning ofthe way', there Tom turns himfelf behind the hedge,and throw's the Ihoe in the middle of the highway,then up couves the bueher riding with his calf be¬fore him; then faid he to himfelf there’s a good(hoe if 1 knew how to get on my calf again, 1Would alight fo: it, but what fignifies one withoutits neighbour f id off he. goes and lets it lie ? omthen flips out and takes - the ttioe up again, andruns acrofs the fields until he got. before the butcherat another part of the hed^e, about half mile dif-tant, and there he thr. -ws the ttioe out again on themidfi of the way; then up comes the butcher-, andfeeing it fays to himfelf, now I fl all have a pairof goodlhoes for the lifting ; down lie comes laysthe calf on the ground, and tying Hs horfe to thehedge, runs back thinking to get the other fhoe, and,in which time Tom whips up the calf and (hoe,-andho»e he goes, demanding his wager, which hismafter could not deny, being fairly won.The po0r butcher returned back to his horfe, gotonly his traVel for his pains; fo miffing bia calf, °heknew not what to fay or do, but thinking it hadbroke the rope from about its feet, and had ran in-to the geids the butcher fpent t at day in fearch^ amongft the hedges and ditches, and fo re¬turned to Tom s mafter's all night, intending to goand learch farther for it next day, giving them ated,ous rtl itiori how he came to lofe it by a curledPair of flioes, which he believed the devil threw inthe way, and how he had taken the calf and all a-long with him expreffing his thankfulnefs that thedevil had been fo honeft as to fpare his old horfe,when he Hole away his calt. Next morni ng Tomwent to work and makes a fine white'face oil thecalf with chalk and water, then brings it out andfold it to the butcher, wlrch was good diverfion tohis mader and the other fervants, to fee the bu:chtfbuy his own calf again, no fooner was he gonewith it, but Tom fays, now mailer what will youhold but I'll Heal it again from him before he goestwo milts off ? No no, fays his mailer but I’llgive you a {lulling if you do it ; done fays l om, itHull coH you no more ; and away he runs afootthrough the fields until he came in before the but¬cher, hard by the place where he Hole the calf theday before ; and there he lies behind-the hedge,and as t, e butcher came part he ppt his hands inhis mouth aud cries, baw, baw, like a calf; thebutcher hearing this, fwears to himlelf that therewas the calf he had loll the day before, dmn hecomes, and throws the calf on the ground goes inthro’ the hedge in all hafte, t' inUnghe had nothingto do but pick it up, but as he came in at 6ne partof the hedge, Tom loups out at another; and gets .the calf on his (boulder, then gets it over the hedgeto the other Gde, and thtough the fields he camefafely home with the calf on ids (boulders,', whilethe poor butcher (pent his tithe'and labour in vain,running from hedge to hedge, , and hole to hole1,feeking what was not there to be found. So Eirebutcher returned to his horfe again, and findinghis other calf gone, he concluded it to be done byfome iHvifibie fpirit there about that fpot of ground :and fo he went home and raifed a bad report onthe devil, and faying he was turned high-wmyman,and had taken two calves from him. So lom w,'fil¬ing the whitfe face otf the Helen calf, his raafterlent for the butcher to come and buy another cdlf,which he accordingly did a few days after, andTom fold him the fame calf a third time : thentold him the whole affair as it was acled, giving himhis money again, fo the butcher got but lun for allhis trouble.P A R T IV.^plIERE was an old rich blind widow, who redhard by, had a young girl, her only daugh¬ter, and (lie fell deep in love with Tom and hornfell as deep in love,, with the money, but not withthe maid : the old woman bellowed a vaft of pre-fents on Tom, and mounted him like a gentleman,but Hill he put off the marriage from time to time,and always wanted foinething which the ol i nomanga e the money to purchaie for him until hfe hai gotabout thirty pounds of her n*pney, and then ihewould delay the-marriage no longer Tom 'sent; nd took the old woman, and girl ufule and madehis apology in the following manner ; Dear mo¬ther, laid he, 1 am very v.filing towed with mydearefl Polly, far fhe appears an ang§l in mine eyes,but I am forry, very forry to acquaint you that Iam not a match for her. -■Vhat child, fays the old.■woman there’s not a fitter match in the world formy Polly : I did not think that your country couldafford Inch a clever youth as what I hear yonjtobe,you fhall neither want gold and filver, and a goodhorfe to ride upon, and when I die you {hall havemy all ; O but fays Tom, that's no matter at all,the flop is this, when I -was at home in Scotland,I get ftroke with a horfe's foot on the bottom, of-the belly which has quite difabled ^pe below thatI cannot do a hulband’s duty in bed. Then the oldwoman clapt her hands and fell a crying, O ! if hehad any other impediment but that, but that! woe¬ful that, which gold and filver cannot purchafe,and yet the poorelt of people that are common beg¬gars hate plenty of it. The old woman and her-daughter fat crying and wringing their hands andTom ftood and wept left 1/e Humid get no moremoney, O fays Polly mother, I 11 wed him never-thelefs, I love him dearly. No, no, you foolilhgirl, would you throw yourftlf away, to marry aman and die a maid, and don’t know the end ofyour creat<on, it is the enjoyment of a man in bedthat makes a woman to marry, which is a pleafurelike paradife, and if you wed with this man you'lllive and 4ie, and never know it. Ho ho; faysTom, if I had money, I needed not be tl is waytill now. Money yCm fool fa^ the old woman,there is not fuch a thing to be got for money in all-England. Ay lays Tom, there’s a doctor in Ncw-caftle will make me, as able as any other m m forten guineas. Ten guineas, faid {lie, 1 11 ^ive himfifty if he will, but here’s twelve, and go' dire&lyand know firft what he wo aid'd o and com: directlyagain, and marry my child, or {he ai d { will dieboth for thy fake. Tom having now got •twelvegnineas more of their money, got all things in rea«dinefs next morning • early, and fets off for New.caf-tle, but inftead of going to Newcgflle, he came toScotland, and left Polly and her mother to think up- 4on him. Then in about two weeks after, when hewa» not returned, no nor fo much as a word fromhim, the old woman-and Poll got a horfe and ca r e .to Newcaflle in lharch of him, went through'all thedoflor's fliops, alking. if there came a young manthere about two, ago with a‘broken cock tomend ; fome laughed at her, others were like tokick her out of doors, fo the old woman had to re- ;turn without getting any further intelligence of -;Tom."Now, after Tom’s return to Scotland, Tie got a ^wife and took «v little farm near Dalkeith and be¬came a very douTe man for many years, followedfeeding of veals for (laughter and the like. Hewent one day to a fair, and bought a fine cow froman old woman, but - om judged by the lownefs of ■the price that the cow had certainly fome fault. Sohe gave the wife the other hearty bicker of good ale, ,then fays he, wife the k onev’s yours, and the cow's jmine, mud tell me the wi bits o’ faults It has. ;Indeed, quoth'file, gaodnran. Ihedias.nae faults but 1ane,"and gin fhe wanted il l waid ne’er hae pr.rted wi' |her ; and" what’s that g -odwife. faid he ? Indeed, .jfold Ihe, the filthy daft bead ay lucks hefieU’ Pugh, jfays.Tom,'if that be all I’ll fooO cure her ot tnat ;(' can ye do’t fays die, if i had kehd what wad a don’t, iye hadna gotten her.. Well fays Tom, III tell you ;what to do, take the co w’s price t gave yon juft now, ;and tye it fad in a napkin, and git e it through to me ■below the cow s wame, and I’ll give you the.napkin :again over the cow’s back, and .’ll lay my life for itthat flu fhall ne’er fuck herfelf in my aught. 1 wat ,jwell, laid (he, HVdqthat an’ there fud be witchcraftin-it. Tom no fooner got the-fiiller through beneath (<the cow’s belly, then he loofes out his money andputs it in his pocket, and gave the napkin over. th&cow’s back to the wife, according as he told her, fay¬ing, there’s your cow and 1 have my money, andI told you fhe fliould never fuck herlel in my aught.. O dole, cry'd the wife, is that your cure, ye ha‘echeated me, ye ha’e cheated me.PART V.Hr OM being very fcant of money, at a time when■* his rent was to pay, and though he was wellacquainted with the butchers in Edinburgh, he triedfeverals of them, yet none of them would lendhim as much, as he was known to be fuch a no¬ted ibarper, Tom thinks with hitnfelf that he'llgive them a bite, in general who had refufed him.So in he comes next day, and all of them had heardthat he had^ fine fat calf feeding) comes to one othe butchers and tells him he was going to fell hisfine fat calf he bad at home.. Well fays the but-cher, and what will you have for*it? Juft five andthirty {hillings, fays Tom No, fays the butcher, butby what I hear of it, I’ll give you thirty Na, na,fays Toon you muft remember that is not the price• of it but give me twenty (hillings juft now, and fend|i out your lad to morrow, and we’ll perhaps agreeabout it. Thus ?*om went through t n of them in• one day. and got twenty ftiillinga from e. ch of themp and kept his fpeech againft the law for W'hatever theyr offered him for. his call, told them to remember thatw.ils.not ,to the price of it, but give me twentyk foldings juft now, and fend me your lad to-morrowmorning, and perhaps we’ll,agree about it, was all■ that paffed. So home he comef-with his ten pounds,| and Pai<l bis rent, and next morning one of the but-, chers font out his lad to Lothian Tom’s for a calf,( "and cs he was about a mile from the town, went t«1; .( 18 )an ale-honfe dooi' and calls for a bicker of ale, andas he ht was drinking it, up came another butcher’s^lad on the fame errand, he being called by the fh'ft -to come and drink, which caufed another bicker;then Up comes other two on the fame errand ; a-gain up comes other fix more, which m ide the ten ;and every one told he was going to Lothian Tom’s-for a calf, which made them think i om had gather¬ed together all the calfs in that councry-fide So up ,they came to Tom’s ho’^a- and every one called for - |his calf; and Tom had but one calf to ferve themall which he took out end (hews them. Now, fays ;he, whoever give's mod for it {hall have it, or I’ll putit to a roup. What find they, our mailers boughtk yefterday. Then, fays Tom, you would be foolsto buy it te dey, for it is heavy to carry and fafhiousto lead, you tnuii all go home without it. Next dayTom get* ten fummonfes to anfwer at the inilance©f the butchers, for felling his c^lf and not CtUvexing-it. Tom goes to Edinburgh and get* the bell Wyurin town for that purpofe, tells him the whole Lory,form firft to laft. Then faid the. lawyer us th-.y.cannot prove a bargain, and depy the paying the mo¬ney again if yen’ll 51 ve, me the calf, I’ll bring you; 1iff but remember in law there’s no point like thatof deni*],' -The calf, fays Tom, you’ll not wanu that ^and a done of butter to make it ready with. Then 'the lawyer goes to the court, where Tom is calledupon ; the lawyer anfwtts firft, who afited the but- <chers, if they could tell the price or prove the bar- jgain ; they ainwered no.; but be ordered us to lendour lads, and we would agree about it. Agree aboutit 1 faid the judges, why do you come to lue for a fbargain and to agree about it! Ay but laid they wowant tw.en y {hillings a-piece from him of the money -Y.-e gave him. Tom is called out, then faid thejudge, Did you borrow money from any of thole .men i iNot I my Lord, I came indeed a (king the-loan of money from them, but they would lend menone, and then I came next day beggar ways, andthey were fo generous a:- to give me twenty {hillingsa piece; but laid the Judge, were not you to give itback agin i I never promiled nor never intend it atall, my Lord, for what is given to the poor is givengratis ; and 1 appeal to this court, that whateverpence any of you has given to the poor, that youloot not for it back again. 1 hen 1 om was freedat the bar and the butchers loft and laughed at.After the court, Tom and the lawyer had a heartybottle ; and at parting the lawyer faid, Now mindTom, and fend me the calf to-morroir : O yes,fays Tom, but you moft firtl fend me out fortyIhillings for it What, fays the lawyer, did not you-proroife me it, and a ftone of butter to make itwith, for gaining yqur plea; But, fays Tcm, didyou not tell me the only point of the law was todeny? and you cannut prove it; and if you havelearned me low I have learned you toguery to yourexperience ; fo take this as a reward for helping metojj cheat the butchers, and 1 think I’m even now•with you both. This was all the lawyer got ofTom,' ■ ii 'v P A R T VI.P A D Ys’ N E W C A T E C H I S M.,p t^ie opinions profefled iu religion, tell^om. ^ /rae dow Psdy, of wbat profeffion art thou ?Pady. Arra, dear (hoy, ray religion was too weightya matter to carry out of my owa country ; I was afraidthat you Englilh Profbyterians Ihould piuck it away from( 20 )with me when at home, my fweet crof* upon my dearbreaft, bound to my bleft button hole.Tom, And what manner of worftiip did you performby that.Pady. Why I adored my crofa, the pope and the prklb ,enrfed Oliver as biaek sa a crow, and fwears myfelf a cut-- 1throat Egaiuft all prcrttHants and church of England- 'men.Tom. And what if the matter, ^but you would be achurch'of England man,or a Scotfu Prcfbyterian yourfelfPady,Pady.'EecMife it ig unnatural for an.Irilhman, but had' -fliaint Patvick, been a Prefl, ian., I had been, the fame.Tom. And for what region would vou be a-Prefbyteriam •then, Pady.Pady. Ijcciufe they have a liberty to eat flefh in Lentand.every thing that a fit for the belly.Tom. What Pady, are you fitch a lover of flefh that 1you wculd change y6ur profeihon for it.-Pady. O yes that’s what i, would, I love flefh of allk’nds fheep’a beef fwirek; mutton, hare's <fie(h, and hen’svenifion i but our religion is one of the liuogriefb in all theworld, ah! but it maies mV teeth to weep, and my belly, jto water, when I fee tht Scotch Prefbytetian’s and Englifn ’churchmen, in time of Lent, feeding upon bull‘8 bafttrds, ;and flteeps v oung children.Tom. Why, Pady, do you fay the bull is a fumicator, ,and gets baftarda ?Pady. Arra dear fhoy, I never faw the cow and herhrfband all the days of my hfe, nor yet before I was born, |going to the chnreh to be married,, and what then can his ‘fons and daughters be but baftards.Tomi O Pady, Pady, the cow is but a cow, and fo areyou ; but what reward will you get when you are dead,for puniflung your belly, fo while ypu .are alive.Pady. By fhaiVit Patrick I win live like a king when Lam dead, for l will neither pay forcieat nor drink. ;Tom. What, jPady, do.you think chat >cu are to conialive agam vvher! you are Head ?PaJy. O yet, we that are true Ro;r.an Catholics,'Will live a long time after we are dead; when we die in lovewith the priefti, and the good people of our profefiion.lom. VVhat afTnrance can your prifefts give you of that..Pady. A ra dear fhoy, onr prieft is a great fliaint, and■a good fhoul, who can repeat a pater-nofter, and AvaMaria, which will fright the very horned deveil himfeli,and make himru* for it, until he be like to fall, and breakhi9 r.eci.Tom. And what doef he give youjwhen you are dyingthat makes you come alive again.Pady. Why he writes a letter upon our tongues, feal-ed with a water, giVes us a facrament in our mouth, witha pardon, and dire&ioit in our right hand, who to call for■at the ports of Purgatory.Xom. And what entertainment wxK you get when youare in. 3 ^Pady O my dear we are all kept there until a gene¬ral review which is commonly once in the week; andall the blackguard fcoundrils is prekt out of the ranks,■and one half of them is fent away to the Elyfian fieldsto carry the weeds from among the potatoes, the otherhalf of them to the river Sticks to catch fiihes for (haintPatrick’s table and all them that is owing the prieftaany money, is put in the black-hole, and then given inrothe hands of a great black hitch of a devil, which theykeep for a hangman, who whips them up and down thefmoaky dungeon every morning for fix.momhs, then holdstheir bare back-fide to a great fire, until their hips be allm one blifter, and after all they are fent away to the poorparifii of Pigtrantrum, where they’ll get nothing to eatbut cold fowens, burgue and butter milk.Tom. And where does you good people go when theyare feparted from the bad >Pady. Ax\\ where would you have them to go, butinto the gardens of Eden now called Panidife ; ah ! mypear {hoy, this is the real fisundamental truths of our Ro-milh Religion, and t deep dodtrine it is. but your Prelby-terean, and Engiith church-men will not believe it, and byfhamt Patrick, {neither can I, until I fee more of it cometo pafs-Tom. And what buritefs do you follow after at prefent.Pady. Arra, dear fliov, l am a mountain failcr, and rnfupplicstion is as follows.Pady’s Humble Petition, or. SurPLiCATioN.GOOD Chriftian people, behold me a man? whihas corn’d' thro’ a world of wonders, a hell^full chard (hips, dangers by fea, and dangers by land, and yeI am alive, you may fee my hand crooked like a foalfoot, and that is no wonder at all, confidering my fuffeiings and forrows; oh! oh 1 good people I wasman in nty time wh» had plenty of the gold, plen^ cthe filver, plenty of the clothes, plenty of the h®etthe beer, beef and bilket. And now, now,. I have ncthing being taken by the Turks, and relieved by thSpainards, lay fixty Ax days at the fiege of Gibraltar, angot nothing to eat but fea wreck, and raw muifels j theput to fea for our fafety, caft upon the Barbarian coafamong the woeful wicked Algerines, where we were tajken and tied with tugs and tedders, horfe locks and cotJjchains ; then cut and caftrate yard and tefticles quite djway, if you will not believe, put in your hand and fe-Hhow every female’s made Imooth be the Ciear-bone, wheijnothing is to be feen but what is natural. Ihen raadUour tfeape to the defert or wild wUdernefs of Arbia ; wheJwe lived amongft the wild affes, upon wind, fand, a .-HIfaplefs ling. Afterwards put to Asa in the hull of an oHhoufe ; where we were tolled above and below the cloudlbeing driven thro’ thickets and groves by fierce, courfijaalm and contrary winds; at lalt was caft away upoSnliibury plains, where cur veflel was dafh’d to piecingainft a cabbage dock. And now my humble petition tyou good Chriftian people is, for one hundred of your beeone hundred of your butter, jnother of youx cheele, a eal»f yonr bifket, a tun of you beer, a keg of your rum/wba pipe of your wine, a lump of your gold, a p ece of yoifilver, a few of your halfpence orjfarthwg?, a w aught o( 23 )f your butter-milk, a par of yeur old breeches. ftockio»j o-| ftioe?, or even a chaw of toWceo for charity’s fake. SA CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.T Beliete the Pope of Rome; to be the ngtu heir anda DowerCJhCCefflr°l-Peter ? Ap°ille’ he hata po.rer abo»-e the kings of the world, being fpritualand temporal, endowed with jTcornmnnlcation far bej* } e ar 1°°* tb,e gravc> ai)d can bring up any• e’ or departed fhoul * he pleafes, even as thea devil m its woman of Endor brought up Samuel toiiead. u V b3r the fame P0vver 1)2 can, affidedby the enchantments of old ManafTab, aking In Ifrael. I believe alfo in the Romith prfefts, thatthey are very civil chafte gentleman, keep no wives of theirown, but partakes a little of other men's wives ia fe«retconfeffion, I acknowledge the wor/hipping pf images andrelicks of Ihaints departed to be very jutt; but if they hearand do not help ua, O they are but a parcel of ungreatfulwretches.The PLOLlGHMAN’s GLORY, orI OM’s SONG.A A I was a walkingr one morning in the fpring,| ^ \ 1 ^ard a young plow nan fo Iwettly did lingAnd as he irat Gngng the'e words ae did fay,■ No life is iike a plowman’s ia the ipenrh ot May.The lark in the morning rises from her naftAnd mounts in the air with the dew upon her '-'caftAnd with the jolly plowman {he’d whilHe and (hellling.And at night file il ret*rn i® ker neft back sgiip,( 24 )If you walk in the fields a*y pi■ afurc to find. .YcTu may fee what the p'o^man enjoysThe eorn he fows grow?, and the dliW-r8 do ^nftgAnd the plowman‘s as happy as a pnsce or a king.When his day's work is done that hedu,to do,Perhapi to fom« country wake he will go.Therewith a fwcet lafs he will dance and hug,Jnd at ni^t return with hh lats Uek'agam.And as the» return from their walk in the townurtn t^ m-adows are mow'd, and the ftt af. cut downTfien t.« rife, n«. t'am,Like . jolly “ °w 1 £ k. wife-.jBrrcsBswets—^-assrsaras--cake, thev ftiould gain their endsN^efriwbTthe, it n.»rr, u\ or make a, amende.There** M“l!{' ’ “"j ”o®W t0°FINIS.