THEGLASGOW,f printer! by J, ?,nd M. Robertfcn, SaltmarVcf.Duke of HamiltonLord Mohun’s FighTO WHICH ARE ADPED,! C A P T A I N GLEN’S unhappyVOYAGE to NEW BARBARY.IN E W INFANCY^SbRAVE D6NALD M* C R A W:Duke Hamilton and Lord Molina's fight.DUKE Hamilton was as fine a Lord,La.l de ral la de re da lal,'As ever Scotland could afford, *Eal lal de ral lal de re.For perfonal valour few was there,Could-with his Grace the Duke compare,How lie was murdered you fhall hear.Fal lal de ral lal de re.Lord Mohun and he fell out of late.About fomc trifles of the fiate.So high the words between them rofe,As very fcon it turn'd to blows,HoSv u will end there's no body knows, &c.Lord Mohun who never man Could face,Unlefs in fome dark and private place- .Lord Mohun who never man could face,Unlefs in fome dark and private place.He Tent a challenge unto his Grace Fal, &c.Betimes in the morning his Grace arofe.And ftraight to Cornel Hamilton goes;Your company, Sir, I muff importune,•Betimes in the morning and very loon, (&c.To meet Gen’ral M‘Cattney & Lord Mohun,The Col'nel replies, I am your Have,To follow your Grace unto the grave ;Then they took coach without'delay.And to Hyde-park by break of day.O there began the bloody fray. Fal lal, &c»• ^ („ 3 )Na fooner out spf coach they light,Bt>- Mohun and M'Cartney ca^.e in fight,No fooner out of coach they Hght,But Mohun and McCartney came in fight,0 then began the bloody fight. Pal lai. Sic*Then befpokc the bra-ve Lord Mohun,1 think your Grace ts here full foou,| I wifh your Grace would put it by.Since blood for blood for vengeance cry.And loath I am this day to die Kal ial, &c.-Then befpoke the Duke his Grace,Saying, Go find out a proper place,My Lord, to me the challenge you fent,To fee it out is my intent,Till my laft drop of blood be fpent. Fal, &c.Then thcie Heroes, fwords were drawn.And fo luflily they both laid on, »I Duke Hamilton thruft with all his might.Into my Lord Mohun thro’ his body quite.And lent him to eternal night, Tai lal, drp.Lord Mohun receiving his deadly wound, -Then on the earth as he lay down;Oh! turn me on my face, faid he.That l ibay die more eafily,So fare thee well >,I‘Carteny. Fal lal, See.By this time his Grace had got' a wound,Then on the-grafs as he fat dowa j.Rafd M‘Cartney as wc find,Cowardly as he was inclin’d,Stabb’d his Grace the Duke b dfind. Fat, Sic,ic 4 >This done, the traitor ran away,Lai c>“ ral la de re da lal,And was not heard of for many a day,Fal lal de ral lal de re,-*ris hoped vengeance would him take,.For his Grace Duke Hamilton's fake.And his laft exit at Tyburn make.Fal lal de rai lal de re.Capt Glen's unhappy voyage to New Barbary.■r|~1fiERE was a Ihip and a in ip of fame,jg Lauhdi'dolfthe.ftockSjboundtotheinainWith a hundred and fifty brifk. young men,Was pick'd and chofen every one.William Glen was our Captain's name.He was a tall add a brilk young man.As bold a failor as e’er went to fea.And he was bound to New Barbary.The firft of April when we fet fail,Bleft with a fv^eet and prjofp’rous gale,JFor we were bound to New Barbary,With all our whole (hip’s c'ompahy.We had not failed a day but two.Till a l our whole (hip’s jovial crew.They all fed fick but fixty-three.As we wjent to New Barbary.One night the Captain he did dream,There came a voice which faid to him.Prepare you and your company,To-morrow’s night you muft lodge with me#f sThis wak’d the Captain itl a fright,I Being the third watch of the night jThen for ftis Boatfw&in he did call,iAud told to him his fecrtts all.When l in England did remain.The holy Sabbath I did profane,!In drunkennefs 1 did delight,I Which doth my trembling foul affright.There’s one thing more i’ve to rehearfe,'I Which l fliall mention in this verfe,A ’Squire 1 flew in Stafford-fhire,All for the fake of a Lady fair/*Now *tis his Ghofl: I am afraid,I That hath to me fuch terror bred,i Although the King hath pardon’d me,I He’s daily in my company,O worthy Captain, finte *tis fo,'J No mortal of it e’er fhall know,E So keep your fecret in your breaff,And pray to God to give you reft.They had not failed a league but three,KTill raging grew the roaring fea,II There rofe a tempefl in the Ikies,i! Which fill’d' our hearts \vith great furpr'fe.Out main-mafl fprung by break of day,jl Which made our rigging all give way lJ This did our feamen fore affright,The terrors of that fatal night.Up then fpojte our fort-vnaft man,As he did by the fore-yard (land.. • ( t )He cry’d. Tbe Lord receive my foul,So to the bottom he did fall.The fea did wafh both, fore and aft,Till fcarce one \.n\ on board was left;Our yard was fplit and cur rigging tore,The like was never done before.The Boatfvvain th^n he did declare,The Captain wras a murderer :\Which pid enrage the whole fnip’s crew.Our Captain ov*r board we, threw.Our treacherous Captain being gone,Immediatety^there was a calm,The wind did calm and the raging fea,As we went to New Barbary;Now when we came to the Spanilh (hereOur goodly Jhip for to repair !The people all were a.maz’d 60 fee.Our difmal cafe and mifery.But when our (hip was in repair,,To fair JKngland our courfe did fleer;And when we came to London town,Our dii'mnl cafe we did make knov/n.Now in-.ny. wives their hufbands loll.Which they lamented to their coft:And caufed them weep bitterly,;Thefe tidings from New Barbary.A hundred and fifty brifk young men,Dicl to our goodly fhip beloug,Of all the whole fhij/s'company.Our number was but feventy.thrcc.Now foamen all whereVr you be,!1 pray a warnin? tak" by me :As you love your U e, {jtiH ha\’e a care,'You never fail with a murderer.’Tis never more ( do intend.For to crols o’er the raging main*But I’ll live at peace in tny o#n country,.And io I end my tragedy, ‘fNEW. r N F \ N C Y,WH F, N infancy to Man flood grew,fome, beauty touch’d my heayi;1 From vein to vein love’s Ivght’ning flew,with painful pleafirg fmart :rMy bofom. fweet content iorfook,and footh’d the f ft dejection ;I The melting figh and-fparkimg look, -. prov’d love and fweet alleclion.Unus’d to arts that win ^be fair,what could a Ihepherd do ?| And to lubtynt to fad deloair,I1 was not the way to woo :At length 1 told the dearcft maid,t hop’d (he’d ao objefhon,I I’d talk, while round her la nkins play,of love and tweet affe&ion. . -A bluih my Chlce’s cheek bedeck’t,a bluflwdevotd of guile ;And what from mAan you exped ?{he anfwer’d with a finUe j( 8 >Many nymphs have been betray'd}thro’ want of calm refle&ien :Then doc’t mv piece of mind invade,with love and fweet affe&ion.Dear maid, T cry’d, miftruft me not,in wedlock's hands let's join.My kids, myjdne„ my herds, my goats,my foul itfelf is .hine :To church he led the blooming fair,for Hymen’s foft protection,And now Jife’s dearefl joys we ftiarc,with love and fweet affe&ion.BRAVE DONALD M‘CRAW.HIGHLAND Donald’s got a wife,and O! an he be wordie o’ her ;For eveny night that he comes hame,he claws the Highland hurdics o’ her.Now Maggie fidg’d and claw’d her head,cry’d, Donald will ye murder me ?But he laid on the other thump,you cuckold me, oh-on-o-rie.When Donald and his» wife had done,they both with one confcnt did part,A fodger he went off to be,and Maggy keeps a chearful heart.GLASGOW,Printed by J.& M. ROBERTSON, Saltmarbet, T So*,