ANAFFECTIONATE ADDRESSTOCHILDREN.BY JOHN BROWN, LATE MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL INHADDINGTON.V*My dear little children, for whom I ought to ff travailas in birth, till Christ be formed in your soulsufferme, “ by the mercies of God," and “ in the bowels ofJesus Christ,” to beseech you, while you peruse this, tolay to heart, the one thing needful—a saving interest inthe Son of God, and renovation into his image • knowand consider the things which concern your peace, youreternal peace, before they be hid from your eyes. Re¬member now thy Creator,” (thy Saviour,) <fin the daysof thy youth, while the evil days come not.” O that youwould consider your last end! the dread eternity, the de¬lightful heaven, or fearful hell that is before you! Shouldyou slight the present call, should you tarry a momentlonger without Christ, perhaps you are undone'for ever:“ Now is the accepted time; now is the day of salvation.”Oh! think, seriously think, how deplorable is yournatural estate! In Adam you have all sinned. You are“ children of disobedience; children of wrath, even asothers.” Your carnal mind is enmity against God, andyour heart “ hard as an adamant;” is filled with allunrighteousness, is “ deceitful above all things, and des¬perately wicked; and out of it do proceed evil thoughtsmurders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness^blasphemies.” With horror contemplate the number ofyour vain thoughts^ your idle words, your evil works 3.—  sw... , ,2“ they are more than the hairs of your head, which can¬not be numbered.” What thousands, what millions ofyour best, your earliest moments, are departed fromyou, and gone to Jehovah’s tribunal, to bear witnesshow treacherously you have squandered them away, inwickedness and unconcern ; especially consider howbasely you have discredited the faithfulness of God, byyour unbelieving rejection of his unspeakable gift, hisdear Son ; who, in the gospel, Is offered, and made ofGod unto you “ wisdom, righteousness, sanctification,and redemption.” How justly he complains, “ Youwill not come unto me, that ve might have life !” and'even my little children “ would have none of me!” O !why thus grieve a divine Saviour !My dear child, how great is thy misery! While with¬out Christ, thou art a stranger to the covenant of pro¬mise, having no hope, and without God in the world.God is angry with thee everyday: all his perfectionsare ready to heap “ indignation and wrath, tribulationand anguish” upon thee: in vain dost thou expect thyrighteousness will profit thee at his bar, and recommendthee to his favour. His law condemns thee to eternalruin: for, “ cursed is every one that continueth not inall things which are written in the book of the law todo them. He that believeth not, is condemned already,and the wrath of God abideth on him.” Nor hast thou amoment’s'security for thy life : death, the king of ter¬rors, incessantly advaneeth to drive thee away in thywickedness. Oh ! how will thy heart endure the tre¬mendous blast of the archangel's trumpet! In vain shallthou cry to tire hills and mountains to fall on thee, andhide thee from thine angry Judge. How terrible to hearthe now despised Saviour, denounce against thee theunalterable sentence, “ Depart from me, ye cursed, intoeverlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels !”Hut there is yet hope concerning thy case: it maynow be remedied : “ God so loved the world, that hegave Ids only begotten Son, that whosoever believethin him, should not perish, but should have everlast¬ing life. Herein is love, not that we loved God, butthat he loved us,” and laying our iniquities uponlik Son, sent him in the likene-s of sinful flesh, madehim under the law, to fulfil its precepts and endureits penalty in our stead, and so be the propitiation3for our sins. “ He made him to be sin for us, who knewno sin, that we might be made the righteousness of Godin him.” To you, my child, was born in the city ofDavid a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord: “ he wasmanifested to destroy the works of the devil : he camenot to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give hislife a ransom for many. He hath finished transgression,made an end of sin, made reconciliation for iniquity,and brought in an everlasting righteousness : while wewere yet without strength, he died for the ungodly •while we were yet sinners, yet enemies, Christ died forus : he suffered for our sins, he died for our offences,and rose again for our justification. God raised him up,and gave him glory, that our faith and hope might bein God. Him hath God exalted to be a prince andSaviour, to give repentance and remission of sins : hehath received gifts for men, even for the rebellious, thatGod the Lord might dwell among them, and daily loadthem with his benefits.”O! how he “ travels in the greatness of his strength,mighty to save ! able to save to the uttennost them thatcome unto God by him.” O ! his infinite willingness tosave us! how deeply marked in words, in oaths, in cries,in tears, in sighs, in groans, in blood, in death ! He“ cometh in the name of the Lord to save us ; to seekand save that which was lost; and him that cometh un¬to him, he will in no wise cast out.” Look unto me andbe saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, andthere is none else. Ho, every one that thirsteth, come,buy and eat: yea, come buy wine and milk, receive-freely my person and benefits, without money, andwithout price. Incline your ear, and come unto me ;hear, and your soul shall live ; and I will make aneverlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies ofDavid. Come unto me, all ye that labour 'and areheavy laden with guilt, corruption, or trouble, and Iwill give you rest. Suffer little children to come untome, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdomof God. My son, my child, give me thine heart. Wiltthou not then from this time, this moment, cry unto me.My father, thou art the guide of my youth ? How shallI put thee among the children, and give thee myself,the goodly heritage of the host of nations ? Thou shaltcall me, My father, and shalt not turn away from me.4I will betroth thee unto me for ever. Are you guilty ?Gome let us reason together, though your sins be asscarlet, they shall be white as snow ; and though theybe red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Are youfar from righteousness ? Behold I bring near myrighteousness. Surely shall one say. In Jehovah haveI righteousness and strength; in him shall you be jus¬tified, and in him shall you glory. Let therefore thewicked forsake his ways of iniquity and self-righteous¬ness, and let him return to me the Lord, for I will havemercy on him ; to me his God, for I will abundantlypardon. As I live, saith the Lord, I have no pleasurein the death of the wicked. You whom times withoutnumber, I the Lord your Saviour have besought bylove, by tears, by blood, by heavenly joys, and infernalhorrors, to accept salvation ; why abuse my mercies,and make me your stumbling block into deeper damna¬tion ! Why will ye die ? Why continue dead in tres-passes and sins ? why imbitter your natural death ? whyrun headlong into the se'cond, the eternal death ? whyslight the gift of God, which is eternal life ? why giveyour hearts to trifles, to devils, to lusts, rather than tome ? Are they more excellent than I, who am Godover all blessed for ever, the chief among ten thousand ;or more kind than a dying Redeemer? Have theydone, or can they do more for thy soul than I ? Is myheaven so wretched, that you will in no ways enter itby me as the way ? Is hell so sweet, so desirable, thatyou will have no redemption from it through my blood?Are lusts so honourable, that you will be their everlast¬ing slave and endless prey ? Why such outrage againstme your bleeding Saviour, as to refuse, that in you Ishould see the ti avail of my soul and be satisfied ? O myson, my son, give me thine heart. Dear child, say himnot nay : request him to apprehend it himself, vas it isbeyond thy power to give it: beg him, the blessed of -the Lord, that hath the key of David, to draw it withhis promises, his cords of love; to open it and come in.Thus taste and see that the Lord is good.May the lovely Bridegroom, the almighty Saviour,persuade you. Lord Jesus, come thyself, and fetchthem out of the prison, the pit of corruption, and bringthem into the bond of the covenant.Printed for W. Wmytr & Co. 12, St Andrew’s Street,Edinburgh.