ABiographical SketchOF THE3Uft antr HaboursOf that Eminent Minister of the Gospel ofJESUS CHRIST;THE -It e v. James Haxl. jo. id.OF THEUNITED SECESSION CHURCH,Baodghton-place Meeting-house,EDINBURGH.—^>©•6. PAISLEY,PRINTED BY G. CALBW ELL,1827.SW5*17 Ll8«^"’’SCOTUN* .i\ipi$jk%mxm%9Of the Late^37, j IDiOF TEINBUFCK.The memoirs of departed saints are interesting to sur¬viving Christians, as they tend to unfold the providenceof God towards his people, the experimental work ofChristianity in their hearts, a.id the influence of Divinegrace on their characters and conduct, and thus add con¬firmation to the truth of the Gospel of Christ. This in¬terest is increased, however, when they relate to such ser¬vants of the Lord, as have long held a distinguished placei:i the visible church. The following is a very brief sketch< f the history and character of one who was an eminentsaint, as well As an honoured, influential, and useful mi¬nister of the Gospel, for the space of fifty years.Dr. Hall was bom at Cathoart-mill, on the Cthof Jan¬uary 17 >G, which is contiguous to Glasgow, and had beenoccupied by his ancestors for many generations. Hisparents, James Hall ami Isabell Bulloch, were personsof decided piety, superior intelligence, and a good edu-< aticn. They were staunch Pitesbyterians, and zealousivadhered to that secession from the Church of Scotland,which, about twenty years before, had originated with3-sonip great and faithful men, in consequence of the errorsin doctrine, remissness in discipline, and infrinsrenoent,'hy patronage, of the libeily and rights of the Christianpeople, which were then, and are still tolerated by the.general assembly of the Scotch Established Church. Hisfather feued a site for the bint secession church in Glas¬gow. and his mother, whose paternal property lay in the.vicinity of Kirkintilloch, presented to the Seceders atthat place, the ground on which their church is erected,•id it appears worthy of notice, that no fewer than threechurches were built for Dr. Hall, during the course ofbis ministry; one at Cumnock, and two in Edinburgh.He had three sisters ami two brothers, four of whomwere older than himself. When he was about five yearsof age, bis father was removed to the bettor country, andthe training of his mind devolved upon his mother}*whose instructions, prayers, and example, appear to havebeen eminently blessed to him, as well as to the rest ofher family; for from his youth, he was well acquaintedwith the Scriptures, and exhibited a walk and coaver.sr.-tion becoming a disciple of Christ.At an early age he gave indications of a sprightly in¬tellect, and distinguished himself at school ns a very aptscholar. During his attending the grammar school ofGlasgow, he one year gained the second prize, and ineach of tl«t three others, the first prize, in that eminentclsssical seminary. On leaving it, he entered the Uni-vjrsity of glargew, where he studied for five sessions, andwent through a complete course of literary and philoso¬phical education, characterized by uncommon assiduity,* This good woman bred to see »1 her children respectablysettled in life- The eldest son, his father’s successor in the milland farm ; James and his younger brother, (novr the Rev. Rob¬ert Hall, of Kelso,) ordained ministers in the Sscession-Church;and all her three daughters, the wives of faithful Smd eminentclergymen, in the same connexion.4(fistinguislied abilities, and the I.'gi.est success. Ills ge-r.ius was bright and veil regulated, and the versatility oflas talents was so strikingly conspicuous, tha* he appear¬ed equally for attaining eminence in any profession; butthe piety of his mind determined him t» prosecute thestudy of liirinity. At this period, a gentleman of greatinfluence, to whom his merit was well known, and whoadmired his character and talents, gave him assuranceof an excellent living, if he would pursue his theologicalstudies in connexion with the Established Church ; hutimmoveably attached to the principles be had imbibedfrom his parents, and adopted front mature judgment, hehe politely and unhesitatingly declined the offer, applied• to the Associate Presbytery of Glasgow for admissioninto the list of its theological students, immediately ob¬tained its approbation, and entered on a course of theo¬logical studies, under the Rev. John Brown, of Hadding¬ton, then Professor of Divinity to the Associate Synod.After attending the prelections of that eminent Diviue,and honourably undergoing the usual course of prelimin¬ary trials, he was licenced to preach the everlasting Gos¬pel early in the year 1776, when he had just completedthe twentieth year of his age.Before he had been many months a probationer, hereceived a unanimous call to become the minister of anew congregation at Cumnock, in Ayrshire and was or¬dained there in the following April, being then only 21>» years of age. In the spring of 1780, lie married MissMaxwell, of Bogton, with whom he had been intimatefrom Ids childhood, and in whom he enjoyed an affection¬ate and valuable partner till the end of Ids life. Theyhad several children, who all died before reaching theyears of maturity, except one daughter, who still sur¬vives, with her widowed mother, to lament the irrepar¬able loss of .a beloved and affectionate father. AboutxU:i same time, lie was called to be the pastor of Well*stpept cctiprobation, in London; hut the A^rciate Sj /.ixJ,spieealdy to ids desire, t ominued him in Cumnock. Af¬ter labouring there, however, with fidelity and success,for the space of nine years, he was translated to Edin¬burgh in the month of June, 1786, where he employer!his splended talents for the long period of forty years &r dfour mouths, with increasing celebrity. He received acall, indeed, some years after to become the minister ofa congregation in Manchester; but the Associate Synodto which he was subject, considering that hi* sphere ofusefulness was equally extensive in Edinburgh, wouldnot consent to his removal from it. As an evedence ofhis unaspiring disposition, notwithstanding his unrivalledpopularity, it may be mentioned to his honour that thoughthe venerable Professor Peat tie, in the College of Aber¬deen. voluntarily undertook to procure for him the de¬gree of Doctor in Divinity from that University, he mo¬destly declined its acceptance, because none of his bre¬thren in the Secession Church had, at that period, heendignified with the same honorary title. It is only aboutthirteen years since the College at Philadelphia unani¬mously conferred the degree upon him, and previous tothat time, a similar honour had been awarded to semeof his brethren by different Universities.He was allowed to possess, in an eminent measure,the peculiar requisites of a Christian orator. His ap¬pearance, especially while young, was uncommonly in¬teresting. His peison was tall, handsome, and dignified.Ilis voice, though not sonorous, was clear, extensive, &mellifluent—modulated with natural taste and impressivevariety. His eye beamed with devotional ardour, andhis countenance glowed with benignant emotions. H isaction was animated, graceful, and appropriate, and hiswhole demeanour dignified ; with such an air of unaffect¬ed sanctity, that the writer, on beholding his earliest ex¬hibitions in the pulpit, was forcibly impressed with the6idea, ti.r.t “ lie moved with the easy yrace of an anyel,charted with the gracious heliests of the Most High. ’i'iie style of his composition was lively, elegant, andperspicuous, frequently copious, hut always repietu withiastructice sentiments. Ilis subjects were selected withjudgment—uniformly adapted to the circumstances ofliis auditory, the peculiar aspects of Providence, ami the{(articular occasions on which they were elucidated. Hisdivisions and subdivisions, though sometimes considera¬bly numerous, were well calculated to illustrate Ids text, ■assist the memory of his hearers, and furnish them withtopics of improving meditation In all his discourses liewas eloquent and interesting; hut lie consolatory truthsof religion, the peaceful sound of salvation, the good tid¬ings of great joy, which were brought by the angel of th«Lord to the highly-favoured shepherds of Bethlehem,were the themes on which he dilated with paramountpleasure. He was well qualified, indeed, for rousing thecareless, alarming the impenitent, and ir pelling the guil¬ty to flee from the wrath to come; hut while exhibitingthe love of God, the unsearchable riches of Christ, andthe astonishing wonders of redemption to poor, miserablewrath-deserving sinners, he never failed to shine with asurpassing lustre.An extensive combination of attractive qualities en¬tered in to the composition of his public character, whichrendered his ministrations equally acceptable to personsof erudition and taste, and to ingenious minds that weretotal strangers to polite literature. He was blessed witha facinating ease, e*ergy, and ernestness of manner, agraceful facility of utterance, a compass of language whichi ever allowed him to hesitate, or to return for a betterword or a happier phrase—an amplitude of ideas which,otrail occasions rendered him rich and eopious-a strengthof imagination which supplied him with striking and in¬structive figures—a comprehensive knowledge of Chris-7t:an thoolotry,' whirli qualified lilm for bringing from thetreasury of eternal truth, matter admirably adapted to overy exigence ; such a complete understanding of humannature and experimental religion, as made him adminis¬ter to each individual a suitable portion of satisfactoiyfood in the most appropriate season, an admirable apti¬tude to strengthen weak bands and confirm feeble ki.ces.to soothe the anguish of excessive grief, and comfort tlrdiversified mourners in Zion—to establish the doubtingor unconfirmed believer on the sure foundation which theLord hath laid, restore back-sliders to the good coinsthey had unhappily abandoned, allure diffident discipie>to determined perseverance, excite slothful performers ofduty to diligence and activity, and provoke all whom hoimmediately addressed, to the exercise of love, and thepractice of good works, to run in the righteous ways of(iod with accelerated steps,—adorn the doctrine of Godtheir Saviour in all things, live soberly, righteously, and- and godly in the world, and look for the blessed hoi*1,the glorious appearance of the great God, even their Sa¬viour the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for them,that he might redeem them from all iniquity, and puritythem to himself, as a peculiar people, zealous of goodworks. In short, though be semetimes found it neces¬sary to assume the character of a Boanerges, he appear¬ed to take much more pleasure in exhibiting himself as ason of consolation. YV hen lie ascended the pulpit, itmight, with much propriety, be said concerning him :“ There stands the messenger of truth ; there standsThe legate of the skies! his theme divine,His offie-e sacred, his credentials clear.By him the vio'ited law speaks outIts thunder; and by him, in siraints as sweetAs angels use, the Gospel whispers peace.He stablishes the strong, restores the weak,lieclaiais the wanderer, binds the broken heart.And firm’d him;e!f in panoply complete.Of hearenly twirpe-, furnishes wirh arms,^ Bright as his own, aud trains to glorious warBy ev’ry ru e of holy discipline.The sacramental host of God’s elect.”Cewpsr.He was also vory attentire to the private duties of htswhile he continued able to perform them. Invisitinsr the sick, his presence, his prayers, and his con¬verse, were peculiary acceptalJe ami consolatory, not on¬ly amone his own people, but also among strangers ofdifferent denominations. Ami no person could he bet¬ter qualified for the ministerial visitation of his flock, forhe was capable of sympathizing with distressed individ¬uals in all situations, adapting his conversation to everyvariety of circumstance, ami eomumcating suitable in¬struction in every particular condition. But, about tenyears atro, he was afflicted with an infiamation of his li¬ver, &c., by which his life was thought to he in immin¬ent danger; and though he gradually resained a eon-j*derable share of health, he was ever afterwards subjectto inward complaints, that rendered him unable to endureany great degree of fatigue: subsequently, he frequenilyappointed diets of visitation, and attempted to accom¬plish that interesting exercise; yet the seeds of deseasewere so deeply rooted in his constitution, that he foundhimself incapable of persevering, and was reluctantly o-IJiged to desist. The unavoidable intermission of a dutyeo important was ascribed to false or conjectural causes,by tlte inconsiderate, the less sympathizing part of hispeople, such as were seldom subjected to affliction thom-aelves, and too apt to judge unfavourably of others, with¬out being furnished with proper grounds ; and they were,unfortunatly, instrumental in spreading discontent, andinducing others, along with themselves, to embrace theopportunity tVhich presented itself, of deserting his min-jstry, and continuing in Rose street, when he removed0-vw ith tbeattaclied members ef :<is cnnprrgation to BroupFi-ton-place. The fact is, while free from excessive pr.::i,lie was indisposed to make the nature of his sufferingsknown ; in his eovereatien, lie manifested so mnch cheer¬fulness and vivacity, and in his pulpit exhil Steel such live¬liness and vigour, that those acquainted with him musthave concluded that he enjoyed a measure of health e-qual to the energy of his animal spirits. Tut he mustalways 1 ave been sensible of his own situation, and hisphysicians (who, during his illaess, did every thing with¬in the reach of medical skill and assiduity,) expressedtheir surprise, after having eompletely learned the wincescf his ms-lady, that he had been able to undergo half thefatigue to which be bad subjected himself. Men, alaslook only on the ent'.vard appearance, but the Lord know-nth the real condition of his creatures. Imperfect andinsagacious moitals, therefore, should beware of tash cen¬sure or arrogant presumption, and pay particular atten¬tion to that in-pired admonition—“Judg-o not, that yebe not judged ; for with what measHre ye inete, it shallbe measured to you again.”As a member of ecclesiastical courts, his judgmentwas more than usually respected. He assumed no dic¬tatorial airs, no supeiiority of discernment, no dispositionto become the leader of a party ; but his thorough ac¬quaintance with the forms of business, his just under¬standing of the causes that camo mwler discussion, hisclear comprehension of the. reasoning employed by par-t e- concerned, and the tendency of arguments advancedby members of court; the deep interest he took in theconcert s ef the chtsrcb, his impartiality in th# weighingof evidence, aud his unbiassed attachment to eonitv. ius-tice, and the general interest of religion, enabled him tode!iver his sentiments with a luminous precision, a per¬tinence of remark, and a fluency cf unpremeditated ex¬pression, which were well calculated to produce comic-10.tion, and cany tlie cause ]k> undertook to advocate. Itis true, he was not uniformly siic'cessfuk hut in such cases,the courts had sometimes cause to regret that they hadnot been governed by his views.Kis conversational powers’were of a superior descrip¬tion. Ilis literary accomplishments, the extent of his in¬formation, the versatility of his talents, his quick com¬prehension of all that was said, and his admirable facilityofexpres'-io*!, qualified him for conversing on ali subjects,;md with all characters, with almost equal aptitude, andin a manner which seldom failed to communicate plea¬sure, entertainment, and instruction Hence it was said,by an eminent American Divine, with whom he had con¬tracted a particular intimacy, while he was in this coun¬try, that lie could not help adnrrmg the talent of Dr.Hall, for he appeared to he equally qualified for couvers-irtff agreeably with a girl before entering her teens, aphilosopher on his most ahrtract theories, a statesman oninteresting topics of legislation, and a theologian on themost alrtruse points of natural and revealed religion. Butwhile he gave a peculiar zest to any convivial companieswith which he associated, he was ever ready to checktire smallest approach to moral impropriety, and to in--troduce subjects calculated to edify as well as entertain.His dignified demeanour and numerous accomplishments,recommended him to the notice and friendship of personsmoving in the higher circles of society: and though heneither courted, nor appeared ostentatious of such a dis¬tinction, it gave him an opportunity of more extensiveruefulness than he might otherwise have enjoyed ; for hewas generally employed to prepare ami transmit address¬es from the ecclesiastical courts with which he was con¬nected, to the Secretary of State, or some other indiien-tial member of the British Parliament. And, on manyoccasions, his exertions were essentially serviceable tothe Secession Church, in getting its civil concerns settled11-von a firm foundation, securing religtous ])riviIo<res, ofwhirl] it was in dairtrer of being denuded, and procuringannual allowances from government for such of its clergy¬men as were to be placed in any of bis Majesty’s for¬eign dependencies.He was a genuine philanthropist, a cordial supporterof benevolent institutions, some of whic h he had the hon¬our to originate—a zealous prompter of such schemes aspromised to ameliorate human misery, and extend thehounderies of Messiah's kingdom. He was particularlysolicitous that pure and undeiiletl religion should becomemore obviously operative, and shine with increadna lus-f‘e in Ids own congregation, the city he inhabited, andhis much loved country. Such, indeed, was the liber¬ality <?f his sentiments, that if the end to which he as¬pired was (detained, the means or denominations of f luis-I (ians employed in producing it, he considered as a mat-■ ter of inferior conseepicnee. Hence it was that evan¬gelical clergymen, not only from England and Ireland,hut from any other part of tl e world, when employedon embassies of beneficence, found a ready admission tohis house, his purse, and his pulpit.His temper was mild, open, ingenuous, and affection¬ate. He was ever ready to befriend the unfortunate—to favour them with sympathy, advice, and personal ser¬vices—and to employ his influence in endeavouring tojilaee the unprovided in cireumstacc‘s of comfort, e igi-hility, or independence. To his relatives and friends,he manifested the most faithul, fraternal, and disinterest¬ed attachment; and towards all mankind lie breathed thegen sine spirit of Christian benevolence. It must he ;*■-knowledge, that he felt the edge of injurious treatmentI with the keenest sensibility, and expressed hisseutiments! concerning it with unreserved openness ; hut I am notaware that lie ever was subject to sudden or excessiveI ebullitions of passion, that in any instance he entertain-a rancorous or rorwgpful spit it, or that at any time!.e suffered the stm to go down on his wrath. On the !contrary, I hnow that few wore more ready to fyrgivetheir oi'ienders, to act towards them in a kind and com-,cilitory manner, to overlook or obliterate the injury, tomake considerable sacrifices for the sake of peace, andtender essential services even to adversaries when pro¬videntially put in their power. In such situations he;was sometimes called to perform an irksome office; l otwhen he had satisfied himself that it was a necessaryduty, he proceeded with promptitude to (list barge it, jwithout either listening to ti.e dissuasions of Ids dearestfriecids or selfishly consulting with flesh and Idood.It is by no means intended to represent Dr. Hall asa perfect or impeccable character; but ubile subject tot!ie common infirmities of his species, it may with more |than ordinary propriety he said ceneeaning him, “ tin teven his failings leaned to virtue’s side. ’ He was some¬times deceived, by thinking more favourably of certaincharacters than they deserved; and was more apt to en¬tertain a good than a bad repent, even of those of w hombe bail no more than a distant knowledge—to palliaterather than aggravate the charges exhibited against cul¬prits, and to plead for the infliction of lenient rather thansevere punishments, even on the guilty. lie also listen¬ed too readily to plausible propositions, and was not suf- jficently aware of their probable result, especially whenthey proceeded from unsuspected fi lends : hence he wasled into secular entragemeets, which he did not imagine .■]would interfere with the immediate duties of his sacredfunction, but which might, in the event of anticipatedssccess, have given him an opportunity of extended use¬fulness. Instead of which, however, they involved himin pecuniary emlarratsment, proved a source of severe jtrial, and exposed him to the rash censure of sue!) as didnot take the trouble to investigate his case. Eut his13-vcorrect statement of prominent facts, his ingenious ex¬posure of the steps which immersed him in such a situ¬ation. ami his willingness to make every sacrifice calcu¬lated to repair any injury which his fahire hnd occasion¬ed, proved perfectly satisfactory to all concerned, andenabled him to retain his respectability unimpaired, notonly among his own people, and his brethren in the churchbut also among impartial public characters of every de¬scription. 1 ndeed, it is now understood, that proposals,both of a civil and sacred nature, were made to him,which, had he been inclined to accede to them, wouldhave placed him in circumstances far more eligible thanlie had previously enjoyed ; but his piety, principles, andidea* of consistency, were too strong for allowing anyworldly considerations to influence his conduct.He continued to discharge his public duties pretty re^gularly, and with great acceptability, till about a yearand three quarters before his death, when he was againseriously seized by his former complaint, which confinedhim nearly three months; after which he occaSioaallvre¬appeared in the pulpit, and was heard by his people withstrong sensations ot joy. Indeed, his discourses then asas well as during the whole preceding eoure of his min¬istry, were so salutary and seasonable, so replete withthe richest marrow of the Gospel, and so strikingly a-dapted to the condition of his auditory, that scarcely anysubstitute that appeared in his room was nearly so acrreptable; for, notwithstanding the duration and nature ofhis malady, there was nothing in his public appearancesthat seemed to indicate either the existence of disease,or the imbecility of age—no whine, drawl, inaudibility,or want of attention to the usual requisites, by which hehad been accustomed to produce a pleasing and prefit-abie effect. His last sermon was preached from Mat¬thew xxii. 11, 12—“ And when the king came in to seethe guests, lie saw there a man which had not on a wetjr14<'ir)2' trrnirnf, ar.<! lie saith inito him, Friemi, how eair-esf thou in iiithi r, not having on a wed din o gtrment .Jand lie was speechless.” He showed that the marriagefeast represents ail the blessings which wire purchasedby the death of Cl rist, adapted his discourse to the c'r-c im dances of his congregation, in which the Lort.’s St p-j>er was to be dispensed on the succeeding Sabbath, andpourtfiyed, in inij ressive colours, the sad condition ofthose wlio come to the sm ramental table without tliewedding garment. He intended to j reach on the com¬munion Sabbath, from Isaiah x. 21—“The remnant s! allreturn, e'en the remnant of .laceb, to do the mightyGod !" but on the msrning ef that day, ’he found him e’fso ill, that he was i bliged to request an assisting tlergy-man to occupy his place, and in ess than ten days after¬wards, he retired from the exercises «f the sanctuary lie-ion-, to join in those that unceasingly engage the genert 1assembly and church of the fiist bora, in the temple above.He died a few minutes before eight, on the mi ruing ofNovember 2*J, in the seventy-first year of bis a<re, andfiftieth of bis ministry. He sufRred much dining thecontinuance of his trouble; but he bote his apparentlyexcessive pain with an exemplary fortitude, unmurmur¬ing resignation, and a patience which appeared to have] reduced its pirfect wi r!<. He departed in the firmfaith of those important truths he had been accustomedto preach, in a full dependance on the faithfulness of thatGod who cannot lie, and in the complete possession ofthat consolation which peculiarly belongs to the heirs ofpromise, who, lihe him, have tied fi r refuge to lay holdon the hope that is get before them. His death wasdeeply rsgretted, as a sad obsourat on of that burningand shining light, in which many for a season had ex¬ceedingly rejoiced. The interest it excited was i bviousat his funeral and especially at the appropriate sermonpreached in his church on the subsequent Sabbath, by15-vttie Rev. John Biwn, fwlio bad succeeded him in Rose-fctreet,) when at least two-thirds of the vast multitudethat appeared solicitous to hear it, were incapable of gain¬ing admission into the house ; but which being now pub¬lished, must amply gratify the serious reader, by the exrellence of its matter, the able delineation it contains ofthe doctors character, and such interesting specimens ofhis death bed exercises as are exhibited in the followingextracts;—“ On Tuesday morning, eight days before lie died, hesummoned his family to his b ‘d-side, and prayed. Themen bers of his family, with his brother and sirtt r, liecommitted by name to the protection of God ; but theburden of his supplication was the session and congrega¬tion of Brough to n-pl«eo, for whom lie prayed, tha* theymight individually be blessed, and that the Holy Ghostmight be poured out upon them, and that God would,in due time, give them a pastor, taught by his spirit, whoshould preach the Gospel in purity t n 1 be well tcqua'i.tedwith his Bible.“ On Wednesday evening, when informed of the soli¬citude and dejection of some friends on account of hisaffliction, and of his elders’ meetings for prayer on hisbehalf, he remarked, ‘ Aye—J live in the hearts of myfriends and my people, and they lire in mine.’“ Early on Thursday morning, while stretched backin his sick-chair, and labouring under severe pain, hemade the following remarks at intervals: 'I find that thesame spirituaJ processes, the same processes of spiritualreasoning, and the same hopes which go on and animateus in health, when we are well, go on when we are ill •and encourage, support, and delight us more abundantlyin the hour of sickness, and in the prospect of death’During the uttering of this sentence, he was more thanonce interrupted by excessive difficulty of breathing. Af¬ter a little interval, with his eyes bent upwards, he pro-fredf'd—7* Thou hast redeemed us ! Thou liast redeem<V us to God !>y thy b'oed !—that is the song of thegreat company who surround the throne. Thou hast re¬deemed us!—that is the song of the saints on earth.Thou hact redeemed us;—that is the song and joy of myheart.’ In the same posture, after another short interval,he said, ‘ I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that heshall stand at the latter day upon tlte earth ; and though::f*er my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my fleshshall I see God.’ ‘ I know in whom-1 have believed,and that what I have committed to him he will preserveagainst that day.’ ‘ The Lord is my light, and my sal¬vation, whom shall I fear? The Lord liveth, and bless¬ed be my Rock, and let the God of my salvation be ex¬alted.’ ‘ I have finished my course, I have kept the faith ;henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteous¬ness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give meat that day.’ ‘ Lord Jesus receive my spirit!’‘‘ On another occasion, lie said, ‘ The cords that bindme to this world are numerous rnd very tender, but theymust all be cut, and that very soon.’ And, putting hishand to his ehost, ‘ That is a true saying of David s—my heartfailcth. Yes, my flesh and my heart faileth.but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion forover.’ One of his last injunctions was, ‘ Give my loveto my c ongregation—to every one of them.’ ”Let hs unite with the pious author of the FuneralSermon— “ that surely, after hearing these things, wedo not feel as w'e ought to do, if, amid all our regrets,we are not disposed to say, ‘ Thanks be to God whpbath given him the victory.’ ”FINIS.