STORY TELLERTHE MURDER DISCOVERED.THE WIDOW AND HER SON.ENCOUNTER WITH A LION.THE SOLDIER’S WIFE.THE CONFLICT BETWEEN GRANT ANDM‘PHERSON, AT HELL BRIDGE, ADANGEROUS PASS IN THE HIGH¬LANDS OF SCOTLAND.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSTHEfcBlUXED LOB LHE BOOH efETFEIfg'Ctr 7800M: •DYiieEBOng LYag 151 1HE HIGH"M -BHEKBOH' YL HE IT BKIDGE' YJ,HE GOvlEriCX BEJHAEE51GKYHIY51DXHE gOPDIEK.a A1IBE-TJlCOnjlXEK /AIJjH Y FlOil'XBE WfJKDEK DI8COAEEED8I0BA lirriB’XHELlbn/ \ tvOY SCOU^DlNBUrTHE MURDER DISCOVERED.I accompanied the gentleman into the gardenand was shown the place where her own fatherfound his murdered daughter. The grass was redwith blood, and the marks of feet were quite visibleon the ground, which happened to be soft and wet.In endeavouring to trace the footsteps, we observedthat they led over some ground which had beennewly dug witli the spade, and that they had madea remarkably distinct impression on the loose soil.On examining that impression we saw that therewas something particular in the form of the shoe.It was uncommonly broad and large, and round¬toed, and, from its shape, gave reason to suspectthat its wearer was what is called flat-soled. It hadalso been lately pieced at the heel and toe, andarmed with broad-headed tacks, the points of whichwere distinctly marked. This was an importantdiscovery, and Mr Johnson, who was accustomedto use his pencil, set himself, with the assistance ofthe surgeon, to take a correct measurement anddrawing of it on paper. In the meantime, Mr Thom¬son and I continued the search, and having tracedthe footsteps to the garden wall, the good minister,who happened to be before me, uttered an exclama¬tion of horror, and directed my attention to a stoneon the top of the wall which was stained with blood.On looking more minutely, we saw the marks ofbloody fingers on the stone, and concluded that themurderer had made his retreat out of the garden atthis place. A plowed field on the other side of thewall favoured our further search, and we trackedthe villian to a small piece of water where he hadprobably washed his hands, and through which lieappeared to have w aded, as the prints of feet were*4sec-n on the opposite bank. I threw off my shoesand stockings, and followed the course we supposedthe murderer had taken as accurately as I could;but as the ground on the other side was coveredwith wood, I could trace him no farther. On myreturn, I observed something bright at the bottomof the water, which I took up, and found to be alarged clasped knife, with the letters R. S. scratchedrudely on the handle. I shuddered to think thatwith this very instrument the fatal deed was proba¬bly committed, and we were confirmed in this opi¬nion by discovering marks of blood on the handle,which the water had not wholly washed away.When the ceremony of interment was over, andbefore any person began to retire, Mr Thomson,standing on a grave-stone, informed the company,that it was the wish of the sheriff' that no personshould be permitted to leave the church-yard till anexamination had taken place, which might serve tothrow some light on this dark and horrid business.“ Huzza! ” cried Robert Stewart ; “ that’s right! I’llguard the yett, and let none out.” “ You are savedthat trouble, young man,” replied Mr Thomson, “forthere are constables already posted at the gate, andnone need attempt to escape.” “ I must request everyperson,” continued he, “ to sit down on the grass inthe vacant space at the north side of the church, ar¬ranged as nearly in rows as possible. That youmay not think this request unnecessary, I will ex¬plain to you the reason of it. The murderer, who¬ever he was, left the impression of his shoe on somenew dug ground near the spot where the crime wascommitted. An accurate drawing of the form anddimensions of that impression has been taken by myfriend Mr Johnson, and is now in my hand. Ourintention is to examine the feet of all who arepresent and compare their shoes with this draught,in hopes that this measure may tend to detect theiiguilty person.’" My eyes were steadily fixed onIRobert Stewart during this speech, and I observedhis face turn red and pale by turns. The marks ofguilt were visible, I thought, on his countenance ;but when Mr Thomson ceased speaking, he had re¬covered himself sufficiently to exclaim, “What good’ill that do ? D’ye think the man that killed the lasswad hae the face to come here ? or, if he was hero,how could you find him out by the sted o’ his foot ?|A hunder folk may ha’e shoon o’ the same size, andif made by ae shoemaker, they may be a’ the same; shape too. It may mak innocent folk suspected,and will do mair ill thaii good; sae for my part Iwinna consent till’t. Come, let us be off lads.” Ashe spake, he pulled some of his companions by thei arm, and turned towards the gate, with the intentionbf making his escape. “ The first man that leaveslithe church-yard before he is examined,” cried MrJohnson from among the crowd, “ will be taken upas a suspected person, and committed to jail. Ihave the authority of the sheriff for saying so.” Amurmur of approbation succeeded his speech, andi'Stewart turned back intimidated, and seated him-liself on a grave-stone at a little distance, folding hisi larms across his breast, and kicking his heels against. lone of the feet of tlie stone, in order to appear verylanuch at his ease. As soon as silence was obtained,Mr Thomson, in a few simple words, refuted Stewart’slohjections, and at the same time held up to public viewMr Johnson’s drawing of the footstep, to convincethe people that there was something so remarkablypeculiar in its shape, there could be little doubt of■finding out the person to whom it belonged, by the(means proposed. Every one now seemed eager to{have his shoes examined, and hastened to seat him¬self on the grass. Two shoemakers were employedto take the measurement, and Mr Johnson accom-panied them with the drawing in his hand. Stewarthad placed himself in the middle of the crowd, andflI saw him make one or two unsuccessful attempts!to shift his seat, so as to escape examination. When!at last his turn came, his colour suddenly changed!to a deadly pale, and with a horrid groan, he fell jsenseless on the ground. lie was restored by theapplication of some water, which was quickly pro¬cured, and looking wildly round him, he exclaimed,“ You cannot say that I did it! it was dark—whosaw me ?” “God Almighty saw you, unhappy young-man!” said Mr Johnson, in a tone which thrilledthrough my heart; for he had now taken the dimen¬sions of Stewart’s shoe, and found it correspond inevery particular to the copy he had drawn. Themurderer, for I had now no doubt that this was he,having recovered his strength, started up ou his feet,and drawing a sharp-pointed knife from his pocket,threatened to stab to the heart the man that laidhands on him. He then made a desperate spring,and before any person had sufficient presence ofmind to prevent him, reached the church-yard wall,which he cleared without difficulty, but losing hisbalance when he reached the other side, he stumbledforward, and fell on the point of his knife. He wasrow overtaken and secured, and as he was losing-much blood, he was conveyed to the manse, whichhappened to be the nearest house ; the surgeon, whowas present, attended him for the purpose of dress¬ing his wound. The knife had entered the bowels,and made a dangerous wound, which the surgeonimmediately pronounced likely to prove fatal.The unfortunate wretch overheard the opinion ofthe surgeon, and cried out with a savage joy, whichfilled every person present with horror, “ Then I’lldisappoint the law yet. If I could na mak myescape in ae way, I’ll do it in another. Sleep, sleep,they say, it’s a sleep.” “ Alas! young man,” saidMr Thomson, shuddering as he spake, “in thatsleep there are awful dreams to the wished—dreamsdo I say? they are horrible realities. God grantthat I may not find—” “It’s a lie!” interruptedhe with a dreadful oath, “ I'll no believe it—sae yeneedna preach to me.” Mr Thomson, finding hecould do no good by continuing the conversation,left the room ; and it was not long after this helearned that the wretched murderer died, still har¬dened and impenitent.THE WIDOW AND HER SON.Duhin’g my residence in the country, I used fre¬quently to attend at the old village church. Itsshadowy aisles, its mouldering monuments, its darkoaken pannelling, all reverend with the gloom ofdeparted years, seemed to fit it for the haunt ofsolemn meditation. A Sunday, too, in the countryis so holy in its repose—such a pensive quiet reignsover the face of nature, that every restless passionis charmed down, and we feel all the natural reli¬gion of the soul gently springing up within us:“ Sweet day, so pure, so calm, so bright,The bridle of the earth and sky.”I do not pretend to be wdiat is called a devout man ,but there are feelings that visit me in a countrychurch., and the beautiful serenity of nature, whichI experience no where else ; and if not a more re¬ligious, I think I am a better man on Sunday, thanon any .oilier day of the seven.But in this church I felt myself continually thrownhack upon the world, by the frigidity and pomp ofthe poor worms around me. The only being thati seemed thoroughly to feel the humble and prostratepiety of a true Christian, was a poor decrepit oldwoman, bending under the weight of years and in¬firmities. She bore the traces of something betterthan abject poverty. The fingerings of decent pridewere still visible in her appearance. Her dress,though humble in the extreme, was scrupulouslyclean. Some trivial respect, too, had been awardedher; for she did not take her seat among the villagepoor, but sat alone on the steps of the altar. Sheseemed to have survived all love, all friendship, allsociety, and to have nothing left but the hopes ofheaven. When I saw her feebly rising and bend¬ing her aged form in prayer—habitually conningher prayer-book, which her palsied hand and failingeyes would scarce permit her to read, but which sheevidently knew by heart—I felt persuaded that thofaltering voice of that poor woman arose to heavenfar before the responses of the clerk, the swell of theorgan, or the chaunting of the choir.I am fond of loitering about country churches,■"and this was so delightfully situated, that it frequent¬ly attracted me. It stood on a knoll, round whicha small stream made a beautiful bend, and thenwound its way through a long reach of soft meadowscenery. The church was surrounded by yew trees,which seemed almost coeval with itself. Its tallgothic spire shot up lightly from among them, withrooks and crows generally wheeling about it. Iwas seated there one still sunny morning, watchingtwo labourers who were digging a grave. They hadchosen one of the most remote and neglected cor¬ners of the church-yard ; where from the number ofnameless graves around, it would appear that theindigent poor and friendless were huddled into theearth. I was told that the new-made grave wasfor the only son of a poor widow. While I wasmeditating on the distinctions of worldly rank,which extend thus down into the very dust, the toll'Jof the bell announecd the approach of the funeral.They were the obsequies of poverty, with whichpride had nothing to do. A coffin of the plainestmaterials, without pall or covering, was borne bysome of the villagers. The sexton walked before,with an air of cold indifference. There were nomock mourners in the trappings of affected woe ;but there was one real mourner, who feebly totteredafter the corpse. It was the aged mother of thedeceased—the poor old woman whom I had seenseated on the steps of the altar. She was supportedby a humble friend, who was endeavouring to com¬fort her. A few of the neighbouring poor had joinedthe train, and some of the children of the villagewere running hand in hand, now shouting with un¬thinking mirth, and now pausing to gaze, with chil¬dish curiosity, on the grief of the mourner.As the funeral train approached the grave, theparson issued from the church porch, arrayed in thesurplice, with prayer book in hand, and attended bythe clerk. The service, however, was a mere act ofcharity. The deceased had been destitute, and thesurviver pennyless. It was shuffled through, there¬fore, in form, but coldly and unfeelingly. The wellfed priest moved but a few steps from the church-door ; his voice could scarcely be heard at the grave,and never did I hear the funeral service, that sub¬lime and touching ceremony, turned into such afrigid mummery of words.I approached the grave. The coffin was placedon the ground. On it were inscribed the name andnge of the deceased—“ George Somers, aged 26years.” The poor mother had been assisted to kneeldown at the head of it. Her withered hands wereclasped, as if in prayer; but I could perceive by afeeble rocking of the body, and a convulsive motionof the lips, that she was gazing on the last relics ofher son, with the yearnings of a mother’s heart.10The service being ended, preparations were madeto deposit the coffin in the earth. There was thatbustling noise which breaks so harshly on the feel¬ings of grief and affection ; directions given in thecold tones of business ; the striking of spades intosand and gravel; which at the grave of those welove, is, of all sounds the most withering. Thebustle around seemed to awaken the mother from awretched reverie. She raised her glazed eyes, andlooked about with a faint wildness. As the menapproached 'with cords to lower the coffin into thegrave, she rung her hands, and broke into an agonyof grief. The poor woman who attended her tookher by the arm, endeavouring to raise her from theearth, and to whisper something like consolation—“ Nay, now—nay, now-—don’t take it so sorely toheart.” She could only shake her head and wringher hands, as one not to be comforted.As they lowered the body into the earth, thecreaking of the cords seemed to agonize her ; butwhen on some accidental obstruction there was ajustling of the coffin, all the tenderness of the mo¬ther burst forth ; as if any harm could come to himwho was far beyond the reach of worldly suffering.I could see no more—my heart swelled into mythroat—my eyes filled with tears —I felt as if I wereacting a barbarous part, in standing by and gazingidly on this scene of maternal anguish. I wander¬ed to another part of the church-yard, where I re¬mained until the fnneral train had dispersed.When I saw the mother slowly and painfullyquitting the grave, leaving behind her the remainsof all that was dear to her on earth, and returningto silence and destitution, my heart ached for her.What, thought I, are the distresses of the rich? theyhave friends to soothe—pleasures to beguile—a worldto divert and dissipate their griefs. What are thosorrows of the young ? their growing minds soonclose above, the wound—then- elastic spirits soonrise beneath the pressure—their green and ductileaffections soon twine round new objects. But thesorrows of the poor, who have no outward appliancesto soothe—the sorrows of the aged, with whom lifeat best is but a wintry day, and who Can look for noafter-growth of joy—the sorrows of the widow, aged,solitary, destitute, mourning over an only son, thelast solace of her years • these are indeed sorrowswhich make us feel the impotency of consolation.It was sometime before I left the church-yard.On my way homeward I met with the woman whohad acted as comforter ; she was just returned fromaccompanying the mother to her lonely habitation,and I drew from her some particulars connectedwith the affecting scene I had witnessed.The parents of the deceased had resided in thevillage from childhood. They had inhabited one ofthe neatest cottages, and by various rural occupa¬tions, and the assistance of a small garden, had sup¬ported themselves creditably and comfortably, andled a happy and blameless life. They had one son,I who had grown up to he the staff and pride of theirage.—“Oh, Sir!” said the good woman, “ he wassuch a likely lad, so sweet-tempered, so kind to every¬one around him, so dutiful to his parents! It didone’s heart good to see him on a Sunday, dressedout in his best, so tall, so straight, so cheery, sup¬porting his old mother to church—for she was al¬ways fonder of leaning on George’s arm, than onher goodman’s; and poor soul she might well beproud of him, for a finer lad there was not in all thecountry round.”Unfortunately, the son was tempted, during a yearof scarcity and agricultural hardship, to enter intothe service of one of the small craft that plied on aneighbouring river. lie bad not been long in thisemploy, when he was entrapped by a press-gang, andcarried off to sea. His parents received tidings ofhis seizure ; but beyond that they could learn no¬thing. It was the loss of their main prop. The ifather, who was already infirm, grew heartless and jmelancholy, and sunk into his grave. The widow, ileft lonely in her age and feebleness, could no longersupport herself, and came upon the parish. Stillthere was a kind feeling towards her throughout thevillage, and a certain respect, as being one of theoldest inhabitants. As no one applied for the cot¬tage in which she had passed so many happy days,she was permitted to remain in it, where she livedsolitary and almost helpless. The few wants of na- iture were chiefly supplied from the scanty produc¬tions of her little garden, which the neighbourswould now and then cultivate for her. It was buta few days before the time at which these circum¬stances were told me, that she was gathering somevegetables for her repast, when she heard the cot¬tage door which faced the garden suddenly open ;a stranger came out, and seemed to be lookingeagerly and wildly around. He was dressed inseaman’s clothes, was emaciated and ghastly pale,and bore the air of one broken by sickness and hard¬ships. He saw her and hastened towards her; buthis steps were faint and faultering : he sunk on hisknees before her, and sobbed like a child. Thepoor woman gazed upon him with a vacant andwandering eye. “Oh my dear, dear mother! don’tyou know your son? your poor boy George!” It wasthe wreck of her once noble lad, who, shattered bywounds, by sickness, and by foreign imprisonment,had at length dragged his wasted Umbs homeward,to repose among the scenes of his childhood.I will not attempt to detail the particulars of sucha meeting, where joy and sorrow were so completelyblended ; still he was alive ; he was come home ; hemight yet live to comfort and cherish her old age ;13Nature, however, was exhausted in him ; and if anything had been wanting to finish the work of fate,the desolation of his native cottage had been suffi¬cient. He stretched himself on the pallet on whichhis widowed mother had passed many a sleeplessnight, and he never rose from it again.The villagers, when they heard that GeorgeSomers had returned, crowded to see him, offeringevery comfort and assistance that their humblemeans afforded. He was too weak, however, totalk ; he could only look his thanks. His motherwas his constant attendant; and he seemed unwilling to be helped by any other hand.There is something in sickness, that breaks downthe pride of manhood, that softens the heart, andbrings it back to the feelings of infancy. Who thathas languished, even in advanced life, in sicknessand despondency ; who that has pined on a wearybed, in the neglect and loneliness of a foreign land,but has thought on the mother “ that looked on hischildhood,” that smoothed his pillow, and adminis¬tered to his helplessness ? Oh! there is an endur¬ing tenderness in the love of a mother to a son, that ,transcends all other affections of the heart. It isneither chilled by selfishness, nor daunted by dan¬ger, nor weakened by worthlessness, nor stifled byingratitude. She will sacrifice every comfort to hisconvenience ; she will surrender every pleasure tohis enjoyment; she will glory in his fame, and exultin his prosperity : and if adversity overtake him, hewill be the dearer to her by misfortune : and if dis¬grace settle upon his name, she will still love andcherish him ; and if the world beside cast him off,she will be all the world to him.Poor George Somers had known well what it wasto be in sickness, and none to soothe—lonely, and inprison, and none to visit him. lie could not endurehis mother from his sight; if she moved away, his11eye would follow licr. She would sit for hours byhis bed, watching him as he slept. Sometimes hewould start from a feverish dream, and look anxiouslyup until he saw her venerable form bending overhim, when be would take her hand, lay it on hisbosom, and fall asleep with the tranquillity of a child.In this way he died.My first impulse on hearing this humble tale ofaffliction, was to visit the cottage of the mourner,and administer pecuniary assistance, and, if possiblecomfort. I found, however, on inquiry, that thegood feelings of the villagers had prompted them todo every thing that the case admitted ; and as thepoor know best how to console each other’s sorrows,1 did not venture to in trade.The next Sunday I was at the village church,when, to my surprise, I saw the poor old womantottering down the aisle to her accustomed seat onthe steps of the altar.She had made an effort to put on something likemourning for her son ; and nothing could be moretouching than this struggle between pious affection. ; nd utter poverty : a black ribband or so,—a fadedl lack handkerchief, and one or two more suchhumble attempts to express by outward signs thegrief which passes show. When I looked round onthe storied monuments, the stately hatchments, thecold marble pomp, with which grandeur mournedmagnificently over departed pride, and turned tothis poor widow, bowed down by age and sorrow, atthe altar of her God, and offering up the prayersand praises of a pious, though broken heart, I feltthat this living monument of real grief was worththem all.I related her story to some of the wealthy mem¬bers of the congregation, and they were moved by it.They exerted themselves to render her situationmore comfortable, and to lighten her afflictions. Itl.'»was, however, but smoothing a few steps to tiregrave. In the course of a Sunday or two after shewas missed from her usual seat at church, an-d be¬fore I left the neighbourhood, I heard with a feelingof satisfaction, that she had quietly breathed herlast, and had gone to rejoin those she loved, in thatworld where sorrow is never known, and friends arenever parted.ENCOUNTER WITH A LION.The day was exceedingly pleasant, and not a cloudwas to be seen. For a mile or two we travelledalong the banks of the river, which in this partabounded in tall mat-rushes. The dogs seemedmuch to enjoy prowling about and examining everybushy place, and at last met with some object amongthe rushes, which caused them to set up a mostvehement and determined barking. We exploredthe spot with caution, as we suspected, from the pe¬culiar tone of the bark, that it was what it provedto be, lions. Having encouraged the dogs to drivethem out, a task which' they performed with greatwillingness-, we had a full view of an enormous blackmained lion and lioness. The latter was seen onlyfor a minute, as she made her escape up the river,under concealment of the rushes ; but the lion camesteadily forward, and stood still to look at us. Atthis moment we felt our situation not free from dan¬ger, as the animal seemed preparing to spring uponus, and we were standing on the bank, at the dis¬tance of only a few yards from him, most of us beingon foot and unarmed, without any visible possibilityof escaping. I had given up my horse to the hunters.10and was on foot myself; but there was no time forfear, and it was useless to attempt avoiding him.I stood well on my guard, holding my pistols in myhand, with my finger on the trigger, and those whohad muskets, kept themselves prepared in the samemanner. But at this instant the dogs boldly flewin between us and the lion, and surrounding him,kept him at bay by their violent and resolute bark¬ing. The courage of these faithful animals was mostadmirable ; they advanced up to the side of the hugebeast, and stood making the greatest clamour in hisface, without the least appearance of fear. Thelion, conscious of his strength, remained unmovedat their noisy attempts, and kept his head towardsus. At one moment, the dogs, perceiving his eyesthus engaged, had advanced close to his feet, andseemed as if they would actually seize hold of him;but they paid dearly for their imprudence, for, with¬out discomposing the majestic and steady attitudein which he stood fixed, he merely moved his paw,and at the next instant I beheld two lying dead.In doing this he made so little exertion, that it wasscarcely perceptible by what means they had beenkilled. Of the time which we gained by the inter¬ference of the dogs, not a moment was lost; wefired upon him ; one of the balls went through bisside just between the short ribs, and the blood im¬mediately began to flow; but the animal still re¬mained standing in the same position. Wo had nodoubt that he would spring upon us ; every gun wasinstantly re-loaded ; but happily we were mistaken,and were not sorry to see him move quietly away,though I had hoped in a few minutes to have beenenabled to take hold of his paw without danger.17THE SOLDIER’S WIFE.It is now many years since the first battalion of the17 th Regiment of Foot, under orders to embark forIndia,—that far distant land, where so many of ourbrave countrymen have fallen victims to the climate,and where so few have slept in what soldiers call“ the bed of glory,”—were assembled in the barrackyard of Chatham, to he inspected previously to theirpassing on board the transports, which lay mooredin the Downs. •It was scarcely day-break, when the merry drumand fife were heard over all parts of the town, andthe soldiers were seen sallying forth from theirquarters, to join the ranks, with their bright fire¬locks on their shoulders, and the knapsacks andcanteens fastened to their backs by belts as whiteas snow. Each soldier was accompanied by somefriend or acquaintance,—or by some individual, witha dearer title to his regard than either ; and therewas a strange and sometimes a whimsical minglingof weeping and laughter among the assembled groups.The second battalion was to remain in England,and the greater portion of the division was present,to bid farewell to their old companions in arms.But among husbands and wives, uncertainty as totheir destiny prevailed—for the lots were yet to bodrawn—the lots that were to decide which of thewomen should accompany the regiment, and whichshould remain behind. Ten of each company wereto be taken, and chance was to be the oidy arbiter.Without noticing what passed elsewhere, I confinedmy attention to that company which was command¬ed by my friend Captain Loden, a brave and excel¬lent officer, who, I am sure, has no more than my¬self forgotten the scene to which I refer.The women had gathered round the flag-serjeant,18who held the lots in Ids cap, ten of them marked,“ to go,” and all thfe others containing the fatalwords “to remain ” It was a moment of dreadful 'suspense, and never have I seen the extreme ofanxiety so powerfully depicted in the countenancesof human beings, as in the countenances of each ofthe soldiers’ wives who composed that group. Oneadvanced and drew her ticket; it was against her,and she retreated sobbing. Another, she succeeded ;and giving a loud huzza, ran off to the distant ranksto embrace her husband. A third came forward withhesitating steps: tears were already chasing eachother down her cheek, and there was an unnatural ipaleness on her interesting and youthful countenance.She put her small Jiand into the serjeant’s cap, andI saw by the rise and fall of her bosom even morethan her looks revealed. She unrolled the paper,looked upon it, and with a deep groan, fell back andfainted. So intense was the anxiety of every per¬son present, that she remained unnoticed, until thetickets had been drawn, and the greater number ofthe women had left the spot. I then looked roundand beheld her supported by her husband, who waskneeling upon the ground, gazing upon her face,and drying her fast falling tears with his coarsehandkerchief, and now and then pressing it to hisown manly cheek.Captain Loden advanced towards them.—“ I amsorry, Henry Jenkins,” said he, “ that fate has beenagainst you ; hut bear up and be stout-hearted.”“ I am so, Captain,” said the soldier, as he look¬ed up, and passed his rough hand across his face ;“ but ’tis a hard thing to part from a wife, and sheso soon to be a mother.”“Oh! Captain, ” sobbed the young woman, “as youare both a husband and a father, do not take himfrom me. I have no friend in the wide world, butone, and will you let him bide with me? Oh! take119me with him,—take me with him,—for the love ofGod take me with him, Captain.” She fell on herknees, laid hold of the officer's sash, clasped it firm¬ly between her hands, and looked up in his face, ex¬claiming, “Oh! leave me my only hope, at least tillGod has given me anotherand repeated in heart¬rending accents, “ Oh! take me with him, take mewith him!”The gallant officer was himself in tears; he knewthat it was impossible to grant the poor wife’s peti¬tion, without creating much discontent in his com¬pany, and he gazed upon them with that feelingwith which a good man always regards the suffer¬ings he cannot alleviate. At this moment, a smartyoung soldier stepped forward, and stood before theCaptain, with his hand to his cap,“ And wdiat do you want, my good fellow?” saidthe officer.“ My name’s John Carty, plase yer honour, andI belong to the second battalion.”“ And what do you want here?”“ Only, yer honour,” said Carty, scratching hishead, “that poor man and his wife there, is sorrow-hearted at parting, I’m thinking.”“ Well, and what then ?”“ Why, yer honour, they say I am a likely lad,and I know I’m fit for sarvice,-—and if your honourwould only let that poor fellow take my place inCaptain Bond’s company, and let me take his placein yours,—why, yer honour would make two poorthings happy, and save the life of one of ’em, I’mthinking.”Captain Loden considered for a few minutes, anddirecting the young Irishman to remain where hewas, proceeded to his brother officer’s quarters. Hesoon made arrangements for the exchange of thesoldiers, and returned to the place where he hadleft them.20“ Well, John Cartj,” ss-id he, “ you go to Bengalwith me, and you, Henry Jenkins, remain at homewith your wrife.”“Thank yer honour,” said John Carty, againtouching his cap as he walked off.Henry Jenkins and his wife both rose from theground, and rushed into each other’s arms, “Godbless you, Captain,” said the soldier, as he pressedhis wife closer to his bosom. “ Oh, bless him forever!” said the wife ; “bless him with prosperity,and a happy heart!—bless his wife, ana bless hischildren and she again fainted.The officer, wiping a tear from his eye, apd ex¬claiming, “ May you never want a friend when Iam far from you,—you, my good lad, and youramiable and loving wife !” passed on to his company.The happy couple went in search of John Carty.* ■ * * * * #-About twelve months since, as two boys werewatching the sheep confided to their charge, upona wide heath, in the county of Somerset, their at¬tention was attracted by a soldier, who walked alongapparently with much fatigue, and at length stoppedto rest his weary limbs beside the old finger-post,which at one time pointed out the way to the neigh¬bouring villages, which now afforded no informationto the traveller, for age had rendered it useless.The boys were gazing upon him with much curi¬osity, w'hen he beckoned them towards him, and en¬quired the way to the village of Eldenby.The eldest, a fine intelligent lad of about twelveyears of age, pointed to the path, and asked if hewas going to any particular house in the village.“ No, my little lad,” said the soldier ; “ but it ison the high road to Frome, and I have friends there;but, in truth, I am very wearied, and perhaps may21find in yon village some person who will befriend apoor fellow, and look to God for a reward.“ Sir,” said the hoy, “my father was a soldier,many years ago, and he dearly loves to look upon ared coat; if you come with me, you may be sure ofa welcome.”“ And you can tell us stories about foreign parts,”said the younger lad, a fine chubby-cheeked fellow,who, with his watch-cloak thrown carelessly over hisshoulder, and his crook in his right hand, had beenminutely examining every portion of the soldier’sdress.The boys gave instructions to their intelligentdog, who, they said, would take good care of thesheep during their absence ; and in a few minutesthe soldier and his young companions reached thegate of a flourishing farm house, which had all theexternal tokens of prosperity and happiness. Theyounger boy trotted on a few paces before, to givehis parents notice that they had invited a strangerto rest beneath their hospitable roof; and the soldierhad just crossed the threshold of the door, when hewas received by a joyful cry of recognition from hisold friends, Henry Jenkins and his wife ; and he waswelcomed as a brother to the dwelling of those, who,in all human probability/were indebted to him fortheir present enviable station.It is unnecessary to pursue this story further thanto add, that John Carty spent his forlough at Elden-by farm ; and that at the expiration of it, his dis¬charge was purchased by his grateful friends, lieis now living in their happy dwelling ; and his careand exertions have contributed greatly to increasetheir prosperity. Nothing has gone wrong witlithem since John Carty was their steward.“ Cast thy bread upon ,the waters,” said the wiseman, “ and it shall be returned to thee after manydays.”2'JHELL BRIDGE.There is a narrow pass between the mountains inthe neighbourhood of Bendearg, in the Highlands ofScotland, which, at a little distance, has the appear¬ance of an immense artificial bridge thrown over atremendous chasm ; but on nearer approach, is seento be a wall of nature’s own masonry, farmed of vast iand rugged bodies of solid rock, piled on each other,as if in the giant’s sport of arcliitecture. Its sidesare in some places covered with trees of a consider¬able size ; and the passenger who lias a head steadyenough to look down, may see the eyrie of birds ofprey beneath his feet. The path across is so narrow,that it cannot admit of two persons passing ; and,indeed, none but natives would attempt the danger¬ous route, though it saves a circuit of three miles:yet it sometimes happens that two travellers meet,owing to the curve formed by the pass preventing aview across from either side ; and when this is thecase, one lies down, while the other crawls over hisbody. One day, a Highlander, walking along thepass, when he had gained the highest part of thearch, observed another coming leisurely up, and be¬ing himself one of the patrician order, called him tolie down ; the person, however, disregarded the com¬mand, and the Highlanders met on the summit.They were Cairn and Bendearg, of two families inenmity to each other. “ I was first at the top,” saidBendearg, “and called out first, lie down, that Imight pass over in peace.” “ When the Grant pros¬trates himself before the M'Pherson,” answered theother, “ it must be with a sword through his body.”“ Turn back, then,” said Bendearg, “ and repass asyou came “ Go back yourself, if you like it,” re¬plied Grant; “ I will not be the first of my name toturn before the M'Pherson.” They then threwI23their 11911 nets over the precipice, and advanced witha slow and cautious pace closer to each other—theywere both unarmed. Stretching their limbs likemen preparing for a desperate struggle, they plant¬ed their feet firmly on the ground, compressed theirlips, knit their brows, and fixing fierce and watch¬ful eyes on each other, stood prepared for an onset.They both grappled at the same moment; but,being of an equal strength, were unable to shift eachother’s position—standing fixed on the rock, withsuppressed breath, and muscles strained to the topof their bent, like statues carved out of the solidstone. At length M'Pherson, suddenly removinghis right foot, so as to give him greater purchase,stooped his body, and bent his enemy down withhim by main strength, till they both leaned overthe precipice, looking downward into the terribleabyss. The contest was as yet doubtful, for Granthad placed his foot firmly on an elevation at thebrink, and had equal command of his enemy, but atj this moment M'Pherson sunk slowly any firmly onhis knee, and while Grant suddenly started back,stooping to take the supposed advantage, whirledhim over his head into the gulf. M‘Pherson fellbackwards, his body partly hanging over the rock,a fragment gave way beneath him, and he sunkfarther, till catching with a desperate effort at thesolid stone above, he regained his footing. Therewas a pause of death-like stillness, and the boldheart of M'Pherson felt sick and faint. At length,as if compelled unwillingly by some mysteriousfeeling, he looked down over the precipice. Granthad caught with a death-like grip, by the ruggedpoint of a rock—his enemy was almost within hisreach. His face was turned upward, and there wasin it horror and despair; but he uttered no word orcry. The next moment he loosed his hold, and his; brains were dashed out before the eyes of his heredi-24tary foe ; tlie mangled body disappeared among thetrees, and his last heavy and hollow sound arosefrom the bottom. M'Pherson returned home analtered man. He purchased a commission in thearmy, and fell bravely in the wars of the Peninsula.The Gaelic name of the place where this tragedywas acted signifies Hell Bridge.FINIS.0if