LIFE OF THE MARTYR,JOHN BROWN,OF PRIEST HILL,IN THE PARISH OF MUIRKIRK, AYRSHIRE,Who was Murdered byGRAHAM OF CLAVLRHOUSE,Near his own house, in 1685.Also, an Account ofHIS COMPANIONS IN SUFFERING,During the last Persecution in Scotland, between the Years,1680 and 168S.1 hey wandered about in sheep-skins and goat-skins, in de \sand caves of the earth, afflicted and tormented,—Heb. xi, .il,Their constancy in torture and in death,These on Tradition's tongue still live, these shallCn History’s honest page be pictured brightTo latest times.Grahame’s Sabbath.KILMARNOCK :Printed by //. Crawford Bookseller*1825.ACCOUNT OFJOHN BROWN.^BOUT a hundred and forty years ago, lived mshe district of Kyle, in Ayrshire, John Brown,of Piiesthill, in the parish of Muirlcirk-, on the bor¬ders of Lanarkshire.His house, which stands to this day, is on thebrow of a hill, behind which rises an extensivetract of heath, moss, hags and rocks, some of whichcommand a .view qf several counties. I’he house isof store and lim?, ^nd is covered with heather. Itbad no grate; the tire was burned on the floor; andhaving no openings in the wall, the smoke rose tar¬dily to the chimney top. Yet dark and smoky asit was, many had tound ina little sanctuary; notonly for refuge, but for God’s presence.Though simple in their habits and furniture, the.inhabitants of those wild districts were well inform¬ed. John Brown was only a boy when upwards ofthree hundred ministers were deposed, in one day,by Charles the II.; because they would not submitto be lorded over by bishops. He often describedthe distress that prevailed in the country on thatoccasion ; and the anguish and weepi'-g throughoutthe churches on the sabbath their ministers preach¬ed tneir farewell seimons. It was heart-rending topart with s< ch men. so remarkable for giace, asthe fiuits of their miniftry re every where con-• picuous. Yon scarce could lodge in a house wfceieGod was not worshipped. Iniquity, ashamed, hidits head. But what a dieaoful reverse was felt,when Prelacy was introduced by arbitrary means.3It was like King Saul's change, a bad spirit after,a good.It is something remarkable, that every time thatPrelacy was established in Scotland, it was accom¬panied with persecution of the Church, taking atvaythe rights of the people, and degeneracy in themoral character of the nation. The disciplineof the Presbyterians was too str-ct for the king andhis counsellors- The bishops were ambitious, andtheir curates were the dregs of society, ignorantand wicked. Many of the bishops had sworn, alongwith the king and his nobles, to support the churchthey had overturned. “ It was no wonder 'houghthey were regarded as coming in w ith perjury wnr-ten on their foreheads; where holiness to the Lordhad formerly been " The consequ“nce was thatthe churches wete deserted, and the ministers taughtthem from house to house. This the bishops cou'dnot bear, and re-enacted laws against them. Thelaws agaiast non conformity, says :: writer of thatage, were so extraordinary, and savoured so muchof a spirit «f persecution, were in theni'-elves sounjust, and in some things so unnatural, that nont*.can wonder though they sometimes drove the poorpeople to desperation. “ They suffered erfeniHesthat cannot be described, from hunger, nakedness,and the severity of th“ weather, lying in dampcaves, without covering, fire, or food. N medirstharbour or relieve them upon the pain of death.”'Die heathen may rage, and princes may combine,to plot against the Lord and his anointtd, saym?,Let us asunder break their hands, and east theircords fiom us. He that sitteth in the heaven shalllaugh : The L >rd shall have them in derision.The wrath of men shall praise him.The whirlwind of percecution carried the «°edsof silvation where the influence of the Ifeformanonhad not reached. I'Ve Scottish border, pro're-bi.'lfor fteebooters or robbers, felt the divine effects < s4ahe banished ministers. They were there harboureduithout fear or dread of laws, and kindly enter,rained. The inhabitants of the heath-covered moors,and the distant ules of the sea were made glad, andblossomed as the rose. Thus, the scattering of the.ministers made new inroads upon Satan’s kingdom.The gospel flourished, though driven from templesmade with hands- Many date their conversion fromthe glad tidings they heard in these wilds, sayingwith the Psalmist, Lo ! we heard of thee at Eph-rsuh, we found thee in the field of the wood.It vas from these banished ministers that JohnJirown received his superior education. He wasintended for die church, had not an uncommon dif-iicuhy of expressing his sentiments to strangersprevented bin, from prosecuting his studies. Butwhat was strange, in prayer he was gifted in anextraordinary measure. In such scriptural languagedid he pour forth his soul, and at the same timexvith such variety, fluency and affection, that heappeared like one superhuman. Many have a giftrt prayer whose lives bespeak them far from thekingdom of heaven. .Such was not Priesthill. Hisactions with men were just and judicious ; so muchso, that he was intrusted, when a very youmi man,with the produce of the neighb uiing shepherds, tocarry to market, and dispose cf, and bring backwhat thty required in re turn. In this capacity, hegot the name of the Christian Carrier; and wasoften the first that brought them titlmgs of the rr.is-ctuel that yas framed by Jaw against the Presby-terrarys. 5 .»! ,He was merely a youth at the rising of Pemland ;und not having been either at the battle of D'urr-clog or Bothweli, he could evade with ease the in-sraring questions that every traveller was requiredto answer: by which means he passed tr. and frounmolested.; although he did not attcad the curateof Mun.ku't, '*ho was a si.lt/, easy creature, and5did nr.t make so man” complaints of his parishion¬ers as some did : nor was he like his brother curateof Blantfre, who, one Sabbath, just as lie rof.i; topronounce the blessing, exclaimed- “ D;vel n iratieo’you see beltane!” f\t which his congregationwere p mic-stiuck, think'n^ they were betrayed intothe hands of the H'ghlaTfi Host, then rava ;ing the 'country ; hue were relieved of their ffeurs by his oexcbawling out, with an o«th, to the door-keeper,“ Jamie, tin an’ a sorrow to you, an’ put thaesheep out o’ my kail ya:d.’’ This was nothing tothe scandalous hves of others, who were guilty ofsuch things as are not even to be named —It wanimpossible the well-informed people of Scotland*could hea- such rnen, setting their un.^criptural will-worship aude.John Brown’s good education was not lost. Tocoume'rtci the bad example of the wicked, who no x'walked on every sice, since vile men were in' highplace, every Monday nigh, he met with some younpersons, and instructed them from the Bible andthe Confession of Faith. In summer, they assem¬bled in a sheep-bught; and in winter, they formeda circle wide around a large fire of peats and candlecoal, that blazed in the nvddle of the spence door.John Brown was not alone in this good woik, Dav«id and William Steel were helo-mates.It was about the year 1680, that Priesthill gotacquainted with Isabell Weir, in the parish of Sort;.She was a very superior woman, though her dispeesition was the very reverse of his. She was livelyand humorous, and could cheer up his giave coun¬tenance, till he was as animated as herself: at oth¬er times, she would sit and listen to the good senseof his conversation with the simplicity ot a child.She saw him often, for he had frequently businessto transact with her father, when he passed to andfrom Ayr. They often talked of Zion’s trouble;and, what was remarkable, when he sought her inr,damage, he told her he felt a foreboding in bilwind, ihat he would one day be called to seal theChurch’s testimony with his blood. If it should beso, she nobly answered, through affliction and deathI will be you: comfort Tho Lord has piomisedme grace, and he will give you glory.After this, the indulged ministers had gone sofar in the course of defection, that the more consci¬entious sufferers had none they could hear, after thedeath of Cameron and Cargil. They resolved toform thernseUes into societies to meet quarterly, ofmembers delegated from their weekly prayer-meet¬ings. The second of these quarterly meetings tookplace at Fr.esthill, February, 1682, where theymade a contribution to send a young man to Hoi.land, to be licensed as preacher to them The fruitsof this brought forward Mr. Renwick, of gloriousmemory. And these meetings, for no other endthan to erj y the liberty of serving God, free ftomthe impositions of mea. were coiiiited seditious, andthe members punished wiih death. What a dread¬ful stare was Scotland in then, when God’s peoplewere counted her enemies !About two months after this, Pnesthill was mar¬ried by Mr. Peden, who happened to be in Kylebaptising chiltlren. The marriage took place in aglen, near the house. When Isabell and her com¬pany arrived at the spot, they were surprised at theassembly gatbered. Mr. Peden welcomed her, andsaid, These are to be witnesses of your vows, fiieyare all friends, and have come at the risk of theirlives to hear God’s word, and to countenance hisordinance of marriage. After all w-as over, Mr.Peden took Isabell aside, and said “ You have gotit good husband, value him highly; keep linen for4 winding-sheet beside you ; for in a day when youleast expect it, thy master will be taken from thyhead- In him the image of cur Lord and Saviouris too visible to pass unnoticed, by those who drivei the chariot wheels of persecution thrbugh the breadthU and length of bleeding Scotland. But fear no:, thoul! Shalt be comforted ”John Brown had, by a former wife, a little girl^ about tive years of age, who, On the morning afterhis marriage, lifted the latch of the spence door,and finding Isabell alone, said, while she coveredher face shily with her arm, “ Fhey say you aremy mother:” “ What if I should be your mother ?”replied Isabell. “ Naething, buj if I thought yewere my mother, I would like to come in aside yeawee,“ said Jennie, with artlets simplicity. “ I hopeI will be your mnther,. my bairn, and that G-odwill give me grace to be so, and that you will be acomfort to me and your father.” And she provedso. When but a child she was a help and pleasureto them: She would watch her father’s return,and as soon as she saw his pack horse at a distance,coming along the bent, she would announce thejoyful tidings. Fhen the gudewiie hasted, andmade ready the milk porridge, had them dished,covered with a clean cloth, and warm water towas! his weary feet, a blazing fire, a clean hearth,and she and Janet would go out and welcome himhome, and help him off with his horse’s loadThe domestic peace and comfort of Priesthill aretalked of to this day ; and many anecdotes are told,and one among the rest, that illustrates the pre¬cept of hospitality to strangers, for thereby somehave entertained angels unawares. The second yearafter his marriage, one night in the beginning ofwinter, John Brown had gone to a neighbour’shouse. The family at home were preparing thewool of their flocks for hodden grey cloth, to sellat Lowrie’s fair in Hamilton. The shepherd card¬ed the black and white woo! together, for the wo¬men to spm : Janet and the held boy were teasingfor the carder : The gudewiie sat nursing her firstborn son at one side of the fire , when the dog, which8-'ay at full length at the other, started up, and railto the door, balking at the approach of a stranger.Isabeil thought it would be her husband returned,and was about to rise to meet hint. Janet and theherd were almost as soon at the door as the dog,and calling to him, ‘‘ Whisht. Collie, whisht, yemu’na speak to the unco man ” The herd caughtthe dog in his arms, and returned with him into thehouse, while Janet followed, leading a stranger, firstlooking to her mother for encouragement, and thento her guest. She led him to her father’s chair witha courtesy that seemed to give rise to strong tmo«tions in his heart.The strange? was yctmg in years, of a little sta¬ture, and fine fair countenance, but he was palewith fatigue and sickness. His shoes were worn out;a shepheid’s plaid hung round him, seemingly fordisguise, for by his dress and speech he seemed ofa superior rank. The gudewifedid not know whe¬ther she should welcome him as a sufferer, or con¬sider him as a spy ; so she lulled her boy to sleep,by singing a verse of an old song.While the gudewile sang, the stranger’s facebrightened up, and he more cheer fully accepted thechild's endearing attentions, who placed him in thewarmest corner, helped him off with his dieepingplaid, imitating all the kind offices she had seenher m >ther perform to her father, to the no smallamusement of the rest of the family. On the stran¬ger it had a different effect. He burst into tears,and cried, “ May the blessing of him that is readyto perish rest upon you, my dear bairn. SurelyGod has heard my cry, and provided me a place torest my head for a night O that 1 had in the wil-derr.ess a lodging-place of wayfaring men, that Imight leave my people and go from them ; for theybe an assembly of treacherous men.”Just as he had finished, John Brown entered. Hegazed at him, and with great deference bade bins9velccme to Ms he use. * Do you koo'y no ?* saidthe stranger. I think l do, said John Brown. Itwas in i is bouse that the societies met that comh-bmed to send you to Holland, and row I fear theyhave not rece.ved you (at least sorr.f ol them,) asthey enght • The r reproach has not broken myheart,’ said Mr Re.iwick (lor it was he, thougnhe was not named beiore the family,) ‘but the ex¬cessive travelling, night wanderings? unseasonablesleep, frequent preaching in all weathers, especiallyin the night, has so debilitated me. that I am unfitoften for my woik. The reproach of those whocalled me to the ministry, ! lonk upon as a deviceof the enemy to stop the Lord's work : but blessedbe lus grace that has kep' me from mixing angeror scorn of them wuh my sorrow. Some have de¬clared, that I will never be honoured of the Lordto do his poor remnant good. But one thing Iknow, and may say, that the Lord has done megood. Oh ! let none fear a suffering lot. Em miesthink themselves satisfied that we ate put to wanderin mosses, and upon the mountains; but evenamidst the storms of these last two nights, 1 cannotexpress what sweet times l have had, when I hadno covering hut the dark curtains of night. Yea,in the silent watch, my mind was led out to admirethe deep and inexpressible ocean of j >y, wherein thewhole family of heaven swim. Bach star led meto wonder what he must be who is the Star of Ja¬cob, of whom all stars borrow their shining. In <deed, if I may term it, I am much obliged to cne-mies they have covered me many a table in thewilderness, and have made me many friends whereI never expected them.*When he ceased speakings every one of the fa¬mily strove to do him some kindness. He remain¬ed another night with them, and was greatly bet¬tered in his health. In those days, hospitality waswith many what it ought to be, purely exer-10dred for Gc d’s plory. and without display of gran-fJ'or.■ The notives were like silvei tried; it wasfhe risk rf all, even li‘e. Hence, the joy of"uch pore iotercourse was s«eet. hejord descrrp-♦wo. Ac iron sharpeneth iron, so doth the face ofhis friend Rerwick and Priesthill talked ofthe sufferings of the church, her testimony, her co¬venanted cnnse, and her ultimate triumph. Yes,they had more comfort in the fai’h that Christwould one day be head over all things. King rfkings, and lord of lords, than the wicked have,when corn and wire do most abound.Mr. M‘Ward, who was some time minister of theTron Church, Glasgow, wrote a long letter frt mHolland to the srfTerers, c on eluding with these re¬markable words: * Though all the powers on earthshould combu e to settle the Supremacy on the headof a mortal, the immortal God shall, with the om¬nipotent power of bis arm, shake the usurper out ofhis seat, and settle the throne of his Anointed uponthe ruins of h is adversaries. Hath Christ b< ughthis crown and sceptre with his blood ? And hath hesuch a right and tide to it r And bath he all pow.er in heaven and in earth, for securing him the pos-■ ession of his purchase ? And shall any mortal of¬fer to rrotmt his throne, pull the crown from hishead, and clothe htmself w:th the spoils of the Me¬diator’s honour ! ard keep himself in possession ofwhat he has taken from the Son ol God ! O vainattempt ! What says the second Psalm? O letthem read their doom in verses 4'ih and 5th. He■shall dash them in pieces His crown shall flour¬ish on his own head, and his enemies will he clothewith shame, who dared to take it by our lav.-s '—They comforted themselves in these hopes, andwith the a'snrar ce that the Lord would one day re¬turn to Scotland, and that the place of his feet■would he glorious.Soon alter Mr. Renwick left Priesthill, his foi-^iilowers rm.'1 lie pnMished their Apologetic Declara¬tion. Mr. Renwick tvas at first averse to the mea¬sure, but at last agreed.It «ras under such circumstances that the Apolo-get:c Declaration was published In it may be seena sp rit, still in Scotland, that dared to he foe fromt yranny ; a spirit that animated the first Reformers ;tha* would, one day, speak terrible tilings in righ¬teousness.Although this effort of freedom was like the childthreshing the mountain, and its consequence appar.-ently the same, save, that the church on this ac¬count suffered much ; the court party making it a-pretence for sending more soldiers on the country,particularly about Lanaik. vainly thinking it wouldnever be well with them, till the south and west ofScotland were made a hunting field ; and the betterto execute this, any soldier in the ranks had libertyto shoot all tliey thought suspicious; ; nd it was notlong, till there was scarce a moss or mountain in thewest of Scotland but was flowered with martyrs.I'he society that met at Priesthill w»- soon brokenup. John Wilson, and John Smith, of Lesrnahago.were shot by Colonel Buchan and the Laird ot Lee.in February 16S5 John Brown of Blackwood, inthe same parish, was shot ir the beginning of Marchfollowing, by Lieutenant Murray, after the promiseof quarter The pure snow, then on the gtonnd.was stained with his blood. His corpse was buried,under cloud of night, near to the spot where he wastreacherously slain.Murray might murder such as godly Brown,But could not rob him of that glorious crows.He now enjoys His credo not his crime,Was non-compliance with a wicked time.These lines are inscribed on the stone that covershis graveAfter this, John Brown could not continue hisfvusiriess cf C^n ier. though he h?.H no hfird in the/'prlogrtlc Drclaration- His opirior ( rd hisConduct vas consistent with it ) was that he oughtto live as in an encnTf’s ccuntrv, and without sin.'V ef he was often obliged to betake to the hugb landsof Kyle, and of Lanarkshne and ro bear ’he ch'l-}'n? cold of March and April winds, with the morebitter blast of persecution Still, however anil ^tthe storms of nature, and of the political heavens,he had the rainbo w of the cover ant around h is head,and emoved a freedom and pleasure that Iris ene¬mies could not roh him of.On one of those da\s, when driven from his home,he fled for refuge to a deep ravine, or moss hag,that had been formed by the current of a water¬spout, carrying shrub«, soil, mrtls, and all beforeit, to the da’e lard beneath, leaving a frightfulchasm, amidst a vast field of heath. Itt, deep mos¬sy sides in: de it inaccessible to siranggrs: only thei eighbcming hmbardmen knew where the brack-ens hid tie rock1., whose shelvv sides conducted tothe bottom. In the sides of this natural alley, wetedens and caves, sufficient to hide a large ermpany.In one rf these Priesthill intended to spend the dayin pra\er ; and had begun to pour out his soul, inthe words of Lamentations iii 40, and downwards,when a sweet sound reached his ear, that seemedto proceed from another part of the moss hag.—At first it was in a soft under voice as afraid to beheard, but seen rote above all fear, joined wiihothers; and the extii. P.-altn was distinctly sung.‘ It is the hallowed sound of praising God; andby some fellow.sufferers;' said John Brown, as hearose from his knees, to search them out. And tohis ro small joy, found rut David and William-Steel, his neighbours, and Joseph Wilson from Les-ntahago, in the cleft of a rock that jutted half-wayinto tte ravine. David Steel had a nanow escapethe day before this. When just about to begin the,13iiuorrlrjr worship, ore cried out, ‘ Tliere is the ere«iniV romir-g ’ He arose with ihe B'^le noder hislain1, and, witiiout knowing what h‘ was about,Jwent into the byre, and laid himself doau in anjtmpty cow-stall, putting the Bible on his breast.His wife, eqn ill? uncorvc ous, turned over hi na heap of beddiap, j ’st as ’be ‘old ers en tr» d the; place. They stabbed the straw where he las, but'the Bible received the point o( the sword, ard theylPfi ,he hons>" ssithout finding then vict m. W illiannil teel’s house was near at han . and was also search*ed Kis wife had locked him in her clothes-press.After they searched every place w khoitt success,and had ieft the house, a soldier returned, and saidto the gudewife. ‘ Mistress, next time you hide, hidebetter: part cf your husband’s coat is locked with¬out your press;’ and with these w trds, he left her,ito join his company. After he w’as gone, to heramazement, she f ,und it as the soldier had said..It wnts to avoid such harassing scenes, that they(had all fled to the ravine ; and they found to theirisweet experience, this dreary waste a Bethel; ’andiin their harassings and hidings, as it was w ith Mosesion the mount, nearest God when farthest from crea¬ture comforts. All day, they read God’s wordand prayed by turns: and during the dark and sil¬ent watches of the night, by turns they prayed andpraised.. William S-eel, who escaped death from the per¬secutors, and lived many years after the Revolu¬tion, said often, it ever theie was a time in his lifethat he would wish to erj^y over again, it was thatin which he suffered persecution ; especially thatday and night lie spent in the moss hag They allthought it would be their last meeting on earth —He was the-fhst that ascended from the ravine, tolook if the enemy were in view'; and it being aclear morning, and no person in sight, they all fol¬lowed, and were steading to consult on the separ-n14ate paths they would take home, to prevent them :from beinof seen, when they were struck silent by [a voice, sweeter than any thing they had ever heard, jpassing over the ravine, singing these words;—Oh ! let the prisoners’ s:ghs ascendBefore thy sisrht on high ;Preserve those by thy mighty power,That are ordahjed to die.And again, while they still stood speechless, ano* tther voice sung, in tones of exultation ; —Though ye have lain among the pots,L'ke doves ye shall appear,Whose wings with silver, and w ith goldWhose feathers covered are.After standing for some time looking at one ano. <ther. some of them thought they had left other wor¬shippers in the moss hag. Others thought that the;souad echoed from a greater distance. “ Whoever aor wherever the words come from, w e have little aconcern,” said John Brown ; “ one thing we may kjtake comfort from; they are God’s words to hisilchurch in affl.clion; and that is our situation—>Who lye among the potcd We scullions, black intthe opinion of our enemies. But God sees us not )as man sees us, but compares us to doves; doveson the wing, whose feathers of gold and silver are*best seen while they fly. It may be, we are on the*wing to an eternal world, and this Bethel meeting^i« preparing us to mount up with wings like eagles.iIf so, let us keep m mind, that we have nothing toiboasf of, but grace, grace ; unto it is our acknowilodgment ” While he spoke, his countenancabeamed the pleasantest ever they had seen ; andtywhen he parted from them, they stood and looked)after him It was the last time they saw him intlife, and the last time they heard him speak. “ H<jlhad a most uncommon talent in communicating in4i15: vmation and consoiation to other:, and wiven heme himself to be tried, he was not left a cast-ray ”: Among the last of the needy adventurers ofiiarles lid’s reign who could swim through the:ood of their more conscientious countrymen, towour and emolument, was Graham of Claver-'use “ He was descended from the house ofrontrose, and was educated in France, the best>hool for dissolute manners and cruelty. He foughtgainst the French in the Low Countries, under the•rince of Orange, but being refused the commandi: one of the Scottish regiments then in ihe Du;chorvice, he left it in disgust, and came over to Eng.; .nd. His dissolu e manners and vivacity soon gotrim notice at court, and the command of a partyf Highlanders.” H:s first appearance on the stagef Scotland’s tragecy was in 1678 takmg treemartyrs for himself and men in the house of Gilberti/f‘Michen, in New Glenluce; and when they wentiSF, beside what they consumed, they took withfiem three horses, worth ten pounds each In everyncceeding appearance he may be marked as risingn cruelty and exaction.“ What Bishop Burnet say^ of Dalziel, may bpiffitani d of Claverhouse with equal, or perhaps withneater truth ; that he acted the Muscovhe toogrossly, threatening to spit men, ana roast themalive. He pleaded in excuse that terror was truemercy, if it put an end to, or prevented war.”Charles being now dead, James, Duke of York,rcqtrtred such instruments to compel submission tohis system of cruelty Having now thrown off themask, the suspicion of the Reformers, that Prelacywas to be handmaid to the introduction of Poperyin (Scotland, was verified. For t^at purpose heenlarged rhe commission of Claverhouse, and creat.*d him Viscount of Dundee; and none was better16 'fitted to drive fill Ruin's phuihshare through eve::thin? that could makt life desirable.’l fhe ntea^ure of fixin? garrisons of soldielthrough the Sou:h aed West counties, as if Secland had been invaded by a foreign enemy, vviJthe beginning of many cold blooded murders .the field. One of these garrisons was fixed at Ledmahago ” Claverhouse came unexpectedly therlate i n the las' night of Apr l 1585. and bavinheard of John Brown’s p-ety and non-conformitiby six o’clock next morning he was at Priesthiil.-A pioof how he thirsted after the blood of suemen.John Brown, as usual, had arisen w ith the daw:and had offered up the morning sacrifice. Hwife often told how remarkably the Psalm, sunthat morning, tended to gird up the loins of theminds. It was Psalm xxvii. 1—4?, The chaptsread was John xvi., equally suitable ; and his p>ajers were like those of one lost to the world, and eitered into the holy of holies, through the rent vaof the Redeemer’s death.How good it is, when the Lord comes, to hfound watching in the way of doing our duty, w?experienced in no small measure by the family «Priesthill Af:er worship, the gudeman went tthe hill to prepare some peat ground ; the servamwere also out, but at some distance, when Claveihouse surrounded the helpless man with three troopof dragoons, and brought him down to his owhouse. He left his implements of industry witgreat composure and walked down before theimore like a leader than a captive.Meanwhile Janet had alarmed her mother by teling her that a great many horsemen were comindown the hill with her father. “ The thing thatfeared is come upon me; O give nve grace for thhonr,” said her mother, hastily taking up her bo;and wrapping him in her plaid and taking Jan' T* -,-  17>y the hand, she went out to meet her foes j pray,ng in secret as she went.The leisurely way of examining persons by law,in which there wa3 some semblance of justice, wasnow departed /rom Ciavethouse simply ask d(John Brown, Why he did not a tend the c rare,and if he would pray for king James. It was re¬markable that, though a stammerer in speech to{strangers, this morning he answered Claverhousejdistinctly. He said he acknowledged only Christ(as supreme head of the Church, and couid not at¬tend the cnrates, because they were piac^tl there■tontrary to his law, and were mere creatures of the{/bishops, and the bishops were creatures of the king ;rand he being a Papist, and himself a Protestant\Presbyterian, who, along with all ranks in the na¬tion, had sworn and covenanted to God, that noPapist should bear rule over these lands; so that-the neither could nor would pray for him. But ifthe repented, and turned fiom his wicked way, hewould acknowledge, obey, and pray for him.—Upon hearing which Claverhouse said, Go to youriprayers, for you shall immediately die; which hetdtd in such a manner as filled the troops withttamazement. On his family, it had a different effect,tilts wife, who was great with ch id, with another(in her arms, and Janet at her side, stood while heiprayed “ tiiat every covenanted blessing might beipoured upon her and her children, born and un-iborn, as one refreshed by the influence of the Holy:Spirit, when he comes down like rain upon themown grass, as showers upon the earth.”There is a light in the Christian’s life that discov¬ers the spots of the wickeu, and torments them be-tfore the time. When Ciaverhouse could bear hisiprayeis no longer, aed had succeeded, after inter-irupting him twice, with the mcst blasphemous lan-'guage, to raise him from hts knees, John Brownsaid to his wife—Isabel!, this ts the day I told youISof, before we were married; and added, with hisiiusual kindness, You see me summoned to appear.0in a few minutes, before the court of heaven, as ai|witness in our Redeemer’s cause, against the Ruler:of Scotland Are y ou willing that I should part:from you ? Heartily willing, said she, in a voice*that spoke her regard ior her husband, and her sub^mission to the Lord, even when he called herbo w before his terrible things. “ That is all 1 waitlfor: O death, wher- is thy sting! O grave, where!will be thy victory !” said John Brown, while hetenderly laid his arms around her, kissed her andhis little boy, and lastly Janet: saymg to her. Mysweet bairn, give your hand to God as your guide;and be your mo'her’s comfort —-He could add nomore; a thle of tenderness over flowed his heart.—At last, he uttered these words, “ Blessed be thou,O Holy Spirit! that speaketh more comfort to myheart than the voice of my oppressors can s.jeakterror to my ears!” Thus, when the Lord broughthis witness to be tried, he discovered such magna¬nimity that, as he fell, he conquered his persecutors.If, in the Christian’s life, there is a light that dis¬covers the spots of the wicked ; so, in the martyr’sheroic grappling with death, there was a heal thatscorched past enduring. It was doubtless unsienthis feeling that Claverhouse ordered six of his dia-goons to shoot him, ere ihe last words were out clhis month: but his prayers and conduci had dis¬armed them from performing such a savage action;They stood motionless Fearing for their mutiny.Clavorhotise snatched a pistol from his own beltand shot him through the head... — And whilihis troops slunk from the awful scene, he, like sbeast of prey that tramples and howls over a fallenvictim, insulted the tender hearted wife, while shega hert d cp the shattered head, by taunting jeers:‘ What th:nicest thou of thy husband now, woman?’« I ever tl* tight mickle good of him,’ said she19.nd now more than even’ Hei seeing her conr-e, said, ‘ It were but justice to lay thee besidem.’ She replied, 4 If ye were permitted, Ixloubtt yolir cruelty could go that length ; but how111 ye answer for this morning s work.’ Withjjcountenance that belied his words, he answered,<>L'o men 1 can be answerable, and as for God, Iilill take him in my own hands:’ Thus saying, helustily put spurs to his horse, and left her with theIjirpte. She tied up his head with her napkin,imposed his body, covered it with her plaid, andnhen she had nothing further to ao or contend■ith, she sat down on the ground, drew her chil-»en to her, and wept over her mangled husband,jj Eut think not, reader, sh6 was miserable; it is[jnly when we have brought on ourselves cur afBic-:ons, that we are miserable under them. Nor thinktai she was alone, Are not angels ministeringjoints to believers in their troubles? And bei*goirits they are well fitted for the service. They:au reach the spirit with healing on their wings —I'hey soothe, they comfort the afflicted widow,—(’here are also kindred spirits with angels, here oniartli, in whom the Most High God puts his Spirit,0 speak a word in season to the weary soul.1 The mourners of P.irsthill did not long wantiriends. The report of the foul deed circulated|apidly, creating dismay and abhorrence. Whotow could think themseives safe, when John Brownwas thus treated, who was not otherwise obnox ouso government than tn not attending the curate, andte several miles distant? The first who arrived tini,he spot was David Steel’s wde, one well fitted tocomfort in the most trying dispensation. She ran:ip to the group, and throwing her anno aroundthem, saluted Isabell thus, 4 Wow woman! andhas your master been taken from your head thisday ? and has he won the martyr’s crown • and hasIGod taken you and your children under his own20care, saying, I v?iil be a husband to the widow, ana father to the fatherless ? No wonder thoughare overcome and astonished a: his doings.” " Trsalutation aroused and strengthened the widoiShe remembered the words of Mr. Peden, and s*arose from ihe ground to search out the linen ifhad warned her to prepare About this time 1) tvSteel and William Steel, with his wife, anived arassisted Isabeil to bring in and wrap up the preciotdust. All was done, while the silence of deatireigned over the householdsAfter breakfast, David Steel took the Bible, antin the ordinary course of the family, began d:worship of God by singing part of the consolatoripsalm that remained unsung in the morning:—anfollowed also the footstep, of ht? friend by readinthe xvinh chapter of John- Isabeil received witcomposure her visitors, many ot whom came at thrisk of their lives to condole with her.As wa<rsaid of the protomartyr Stephen, devocmen carried him to his burial, in like manner wsJohn Brown, for literally God’s hidden ones carriehim forth, and laid him in his grave, on the verspot where he fell. And as the disciples, aft*they had seen the Lord ascend, returned unto Jertsaleni rejoicing, in hke manner did the company sPriesthiil rejoice, a"d had their 4 song in the nightEvery writer of that age among the suffererbears witness how wonderfully they who sufferewere borne up, as on eagle’s wings, above thworld’, scorn and hatred. Ask all the letters written by Rutherford and others, down to those wrilten by dir R. Hamilton Ask the dying testimnnies, from Argyie and Guthrie to Renwick. file;would till volumes, and establish tbe truth, chaone like unto the Son of G d walked with them iithe iiery furnace of affliction. Renwick writes, oione occasion, to Sir R Hamilton, after a fieldpreaching, that * if ever God could be tied to an;rfS.--'!1 - 1 r1121ice, I think it is tr the muirs and mountains ofjtlard ’ Rutherford many a time declares,weet, sweet is the cross; and no wonder, whenrist bears both us and it.’ The sorrow of thehteous is better far than the joys of the wicked,it are onl\ like the crackling of thorns under aand wnrketh death Had a miracle opened! eyes of Claverhouse, as it did the eyes of thefcphet’s servant, to have seen John Brown’s soulmi ‘ insult springing,’ at the moment h;s bodys a mangled copse, he would have seen himselfjmged from a powerful oppressor, like Hainan,a mean servant, only fit, as an instrument, tojthe the humble sitier at the king’s gate in royales, and a glorious crown, and usher him in tocity Shushan, as a man whom the King delightsnonour It was not granted that his eyes should: opened by a miracle, or by faith in God’s writ-testimony, to see himself a;, he really w’as-; but' d’s vicegerent, conscience, even in this life,; ais out awful things of righteousness and judg-nt to come. ‘ He afterword’s acknowledged thatin Brown’s prayer made such an impiession on; spirit, that he could never get altogether worn, when he gave himself 1 beity to think.’ Thus,iischief hautus the violent man, and the bloody. i dece'tlul man shall not live half nis days.’His maxim, of terror being true mercy, if it pre-r.ted or put *n end to war. hke every other at-;npt to do evil <hat good may come out of it,, ved fallacious and acting up to it was the rr eanbringing on the Revolution of 168S, and offinishing James VII. from the throne and heartsithe people of Scotland Oiaverhouse, for vari-15 reasons, had no alternative than to foll -w ihetuue of his benefactor When he found a largejority in the Scotch Convention on the side ofIlham, he left Eau burgh with the determinationexuur.g birr:Hi in the cause of James, m the22field. Not long after this he appeared openlyarms at Inverness, and was successful at the batof Killicrankie; putting William's army to fliglbut while in the act of raising himself on the saddand waving with his arm pointing to guatd the pof Killicrankie, that his favorite maxim 4 no quter’ might be put into execution, Lol a mustball passed into his arm-pit, that proved fatal infew hours after. His estate was made over to lihouse of Douglas, and his widow marrying to Lc]Kilsyth, and returning to Holland, became, alowith her children, the victim of a dreadful misftune The house in which she resided at Utrecfalling suddenly in and overwhelming the whfamily, his name and title* became extinct.’Phe poor widow of Priesthill and her childrdid inherit the earth, and had a name long afthat of her oppressors was not.— About forty yeago, a gentleman riding to Edinburgh fell iiconversation with a respectable-looking counwoman, on the road, and learning that she wagrv.nd-daughter of John Brown, he on that accomade her ride behind him into the city. So miwas the memory of the Christian Carrier respectAnd what was a proof of the harmony of his famshe could not tell whether sne was of the first orsecond wife's children. None of them now r r,:*t Priesthill, but their house stands, and the br«(flat stone that covers their father’s grave, is shewith this inscription;In death’s cold bed, the dusty part here liesOf one who did the earth as dust despise :Here m this place from eartn he took departuNow he has got the garland of the martyr.Butchered by Clavers and his bloody band.Raging most rav nously o’er all the land.Only for owning Christ’s supremacy.Wickedly wrong’d by encroaching tyranny.23Nothing hew near 10 ever he to goodEsteem'd, nor dear for any truth his blood.It has not been exactly ascertained how long thewidow lived after her husband, nor is the presentijitate of their posterity known to the writer : but its certain, that eight months alter her husband'slleath, Isabell mingleo her tears with those of DavidSteel's wife, and had her wounds opened afresh byshat worthy man's untimely end.The enemy came on a sudden to Cummerheadwhere he lived, and while ha was dying before them.no a flow moss, where no troi per could follow,adiey called him bach, assuring him that they didliiot intend his hurt. In confidence of Which, he sati;down on a little knoll, on which a k’ln stood, toftiook at the soldiers passirg* and while doing so,iiLieutenant Crichton, who commanded the troop,and who came up in the rear, shot him throughlithe heart, after that he had been treacherously pro-imised safety !! !;i His wile saw him all the while, and was the fiistiithat got to the bloody corpse, and while she gentlyipressed down the eyelids on the fixed face, she saidtwith great composure, ‘ I he aichers have shot atithee, but they could not reach thy soul: it has es¬caped hke a dove, far away, and is at rest ’ She.(then, clapping her hards together, and looking upwith an eye that pieiced the heavens, said, ‘ Lordigive strength unto thine handmaid, that will proveshe has waited hr thee even in the way of thj judg¬ments.’David S eel lies buried 'in Lesmahago church-yaid. On h>s grave is a stone witti this epitaph,David a shepherd first, and thenAdvanced to be king of men.Had of graces in this quarter.This heir, a wand’rer, now a martyr;24Who for bis constancy and zeal.Still to the back did prove good steel.Who for Christ’s royal truth and laws,And for the covenanted causeOf Scotland’s famous Reformation ;Declining tyrants’ usurpation,By cruel Cnolnon murder’d lies,Whose blood to heaven for vengeance cries.Joseph Wilson who was also under hiding in themoss hag with John Brown, was met by a party cnorth Highlanders in a moss, near the water oKyle, when he and other four men were returningfiom hearing Mr. Renwick preach ; and on thei;confession where they had been, were all shot withcut further trial. Thus their blood was mixed witltheir sacrifice They were not granted even timito commit their souls to God : but their soulssafety did not depend upon their prayers, but 01their praying ke*oWilliam Steel alone, of those fiiends, survive:the persecution period, and lived after the Revolution to tell his wonderful escapes,“ The memory of rhe most glorious scenes of ac}tion, and the most di.mal scenes of suffering tha}the church of Scotland has passed through, havnot been left buned in their own ashes.” Her firsReformer nave been nobly drawm forth from thrubbish of lies and prejudice, that had long laiheaped upon their memories. And may nor thless conspicuous stories that compose the fair builcing, be gathered out with this wairant—The rig!teous shall be held in everlasting remembrance.F I N I S.