BLACK BOOK! « OFICONSCIENCE;OK,' God's Great and High Court of Justicein the SouLWHEREINi The Truth and Sincerity, Deceit and Hypocrisy,, of every Man’s Heart and ways, are judgedand discovered by their Consciences.- v*Very seasonable for these times, wherein wickedMen, under pretence of liberty of Conscience,take liberty to sin and blaspheme.By ANDREW JONES.Isjjer. ifii. 9, 10 —The heart is deceitful above all things, andj desperately wicked, who saa know it ? I the Lord, searchl the heart, and try the reins; even to give every man accoid-I ing to his ways, and according to the fruit of iiis doings,iiritus i. 15.—Unto the pure all things are pure; but to themi that are defiled and unbelieving, is nothing pure: but even|j their mind and consciences is defiled.KILMARNOCK IPrinted by H. Crawford, Bookseller,1822.THEiBlack Book of Conscience.ijtev. xk. 12.—And I saw the dead small andI great stand before God; and the books wereii, opened: And another book was opened, whichIII was the book of life: And the dead were jndg-% ed out of those things, which were writtenl| in the books, according to tbeir works.j\s there are several books of Godfihich he hath written for the good of allae children of men, so there are twooecial books by which the Lord will pro¬ved in judgement against all the sons andlaughters of men. The books which Godihth given to the children of men, foriaeir use and comfort of salvation, aremese, first and chiefly, the books of thebid and New Testament; wherein Jesusihrist, in all his offices as Prophet, Priestltd King, for to rule us and guide us, bys Spirit in our hearts, is made knowny.I4 The Black Book*and -declared unto us. And there is like¬wise set down therein, how every one ofus ought to live and demean himself in ithis present world, with several fearful ex¬amples of God’s heavy judgements againstwicked and notorious sinners in drown* \ing the old world for their sins and wick¬edness ; as you may see Gen. vi. So like- 1>wise in destroying Sodom and Gomorrah,by fire from heaven, Gen. xix. ‘24, 2.5. Andthe Lord rained upon Sodom and Gomorrrah tfire and brimstone, and overthrew those citiest.and all their inhabitants ; with several otherfearful examples of God’s heavy wrath andindignation against sin and sinners, in ge¬neral and in particular. All which, as St.Jude saith in his epistle, are set forth for ourexamples, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire.Not for our examples, that we should doas they did, but that we should be afraidto do as they did, to commit such sins, lestthe Lord lay upon us such, or heavierweights of wrath and vengeance.So likewise, in the book of the scripture,is set forth the blessed and happy state andcondition of all the godly, both in this life,and the life to come, as you may see.Psalms i. xv. xci. The godly man shall be de~livered from the snare of the fowler, and frathe noise of the pestilence, and because he hathmade the lord his refuge, there shall no mfr>of Conscience. 5’ hefal: So, he shall give his angels charge overhim, to keep him in all his ways, ver. 10, 11,The joys tha' are prepared for the godly,rind the torments that are appointed for: 'he wicked, are likewise set forth there inI [he book of the scriptures; as you mayi see, Matth. xx. 34, 41. To the godly,' ?j9me\ ye blessed of my Father, sailh Christ,■■ nherii the kingdom prepared for you before' he beginning of the world. But to the un¬godly, Depart from me, ye cursed, into ever-\ lasting fire, prepared for the devil and hisAnother great book of God, is the bookthe creature, containing these mighty"srorks both of creation and providence,iivhereint the greatness, power, and good¬ness of God are so plainly written, that heilvho runs may read and see it; for, as theopostle saith, Rom. ix. 20. The invisiblewings cf him from the creation of the world'ire clearly seen, being understood, saith theapostle, by the things that are made, even hisVernal power and Godhead, so that they areWithout excuse. Who but an almighty Goduld out of nothing create ail things; anding created, rule and govern al! things ?.8 David says. It is nothing but the almightywer and providence of God that bears up therth, and upholds the foundations thereof..nd this book even the Heathens, who"V6 The Black Bookknow not God nor his word, who neverheard of Jesus Christ, or salvation, areacquainted with: They, I say, by seeingand reading the mighty works of God inthe world, confess and say, verily, there is aGod, and none but God could create these glori¬ous creatures, the sun, moon, and start.So likewise, there are two special books,by which God will judge all the sons anddaughters of men at the last day; and „these are, First, The book of his remem¬brance, written by himself} wherein thef,lives of men, yea, their very thoughts are,,recorded, as David saith. Psalm xciv. 11. lThe Lord knoweth the thoughts of men thaii.they are vanity. And Psalm cxxxix. 1,—Saith David, 0 Lord! thou hast searched mand known me. Thou knewest my down-sittin^and my up-rising. Thou under tandest m\ rthoughts afar off. Thou compassesi my path jj(and my lying down, and art acquaint'd willell my ways. There is not a word in my ,mouth, but lo, 0 Lord! thou kmwest it at.together. And although the heart of manas Jeremiah saith, Jer. xvii. 9, 10. is deceitful above all things ; yet God doth exact! „know every turning and corner thereof/ the Lord, search the heart, saith he, I trthe reins. There is nothing can be hi,from his eternal all-seeing eye.And then, Secondly, there is the booof Conscience. 7iof conscience, in whick is exactly writtenfall our actions, thoughts, words, and deeds ;?and according to this book of conscience,and what is there written, will the Lordproceed in judgement, and every man’sconscience shall be his own judge. SaithGod, What hast thou done? How hastthou lived in the world ? Why thus and• thus have I lived, saith conscience. Con¬science will then speak the truth, and no¬thing but the truth. O Lord, saith thewicked man’s conscience, I have dishonour¬ed thy name, I have abused thy grace andmercy, in turning it to wantonness; Imave abused thy creatures by wasteful and• fiotous spending to please and satisfy my...fust, saith the prodigal man’s conscience.nind by chambering and wantonness, byl aming and dicing away my precious time,faith the lascivious and voluptuous man’sconscience. Thou gavest me times andj i.i seasons of grace and mercy, and minygracious opportunities, and soul-advan-r/pges, whereby I might have wrought outi(iy own salvation with fear and trembling;Ind, as St, Peter saith, / might have madecalling and election sure to my own soul:iiut, instead of working out my salvation withuar and trembling, and making my calling andsection sure, I have wrought out my own.ke damnation without either fear or wit, andThe Black Bookmade myself sure of eternal and everlast¬ing condemnation, saith the mere moralsformal, and profane Christian's conscience.Ah! Lord, sakh the dissembling hypo¬crite’s conscience, I have been but an out¬side Christian ; I have gone to church, butonly as dogs do, for fashion’s sake, and tobe looked upon and esteemed among my9 neighbours; I have made a shew indeed,and pretence «£ religion and holiness j but jit hath been but a mere show! I have al¬together denied the ^pwrr and practice of jit by my life and conversation, as it is,Tit. i. 16. They profess that they know Gouybut in works, they deny him, being abominableand disobedient, and to every good work repro-bate. And why so? Because, as he saithin verse 15th. their minds and conscienies a*edefiled* Ah! my conscience toM me se¬veral times that I was but an hypocrite, amere painted sepulchre, liiir without andfoul within. O! but I would not hearconscience then, but neglected him. Ah!now my conscience makes me fear himwhether I will or not; therefore. Lord, dowith me what thou pieasest: True andrighteous art thou in all thy doings to¬wards me ; be they ever so harsh, theyare but the just rewards of my iniquities.And saith the covetous man’s conscience,the gripping, cruel extorting usurer’s conktktit:ft;PWJ-llcf Conscience? &11 science, Lord, I confess, I have been a co«jivetous wretch; but I have not coveted|| after heaveatv It hath been my , wholev! trade to cheat and cozen others, and toj grind the faces of the poor; all that I; i could do to undo others ; but alas for me !11 *rhat have I done ? I have quite and clean. i undone my own soul, and that to all eter-i nity. I have been very cruel and unmerci-i ful to others $ I would not forgive mySpoor brethren in the least. O Lord! 1deserve no mercy at thy hands, the hottest: i place in hell would be too cold for me.What have you done with all yourwealth, saith God to rich men, all thesegreat estates which I lent you, or ratherentrusted you with as stewards ? Howhave you improved them ? What of themhave y®u Lid out in relieving my poormembers ? Have you laid up any thing foreternal life ? O! no, saith conscience, Ihave not, Lord, I have not, but this hateI done, I have treasured up wrath againstthe day of wrath. My gold and my silveris rusted, my riches are corrupted, andrich garments moth-eaten, as St. Jamessaith, chap. v. 3, 4. My gold and silver iscankered, and the rust of them is now a wit¬ness against me, to condemn me, and eats myflesh as it were fire. And now also, beholdthe hire of my labourers, which have reapedli '>"10The Btadt Bookdown my field which I have hept back bHfrauds cricib: and ihe cries of them who haxfreaped^ arc entered into the ears of the Lordcf Sabactb. I have lived in pleasure uponIhe eaith, and been wanton, and I havenouribhed my heart as in a day of slaugh.ter. I told you, saith conscience, that forall your greatness and delights, you mustconic to judgement, and give an account toGod of all your actions, and for all your !wealth, and how, and which way you spent 1every perry that he lent you. Did I not ;tell you, saith conscience ? True it is, my ?.cmscierce .told me; but 1 slighted con- <scicrce, as a thing of no value or account, iAh, miserable man that I was! to slight ;•this good voice of conscience. Wo unto «me! my punishment is less than my ini¬quities deserve. Thus and thus will men’s o?consciences deal v ith them before the Lord. I,.,When, as Peter denied his Lord and pMatter, his conscience let him alone once ; iyea, twice; but the third time the cock >t|crew, and Peter’s heart smote him for what khe had done, and he went forth and wept 's ,;bitterly. Peter did not go about to stop ittthe mouth of conscience, as Judas did, and h?o banged himself: No, Peter closed with ^the voice of his conscience, and so by true f;,and unfeigned repentance, obtained mercy. ^So likewise David, when Che prophet) XXof Cci'sciaKr.- MNathan, in 2 Samuel xii. 13. had'by tin?parable of the ewe-lamb, shewed David theevil ©f his ^ins, presently was con-*AMneed in his conscience, of the horridnessof hrs sins. And David said un'o" Nathan,11 have sinned against the Lord: have mercytpon me. Psalm li. (flic psalm of his rc-i )entance) According to thy loving kindness ;■ seconding unto the multitude of thy tender meies, blot out my transgressions ; wash me iho-oughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me fromay sin: For I acknowledge my iransgressiomtand my sin is ever befot e me. Against thee.See only, have I sinned, and done this evil inby sight. David had a very tender con¬science, for when he cut oft' Saul’s skirt*ds heart smote him, his conscience accused ^im, as you may see J Sam. xxi. 5. O butrow many wicked men are there now,,,,oihose consciences tell them over and over,%ain and again of their sins, and yet for1 that they stop their ears against con-iaience ? how many times doth the beastlyrrunkard’s conscience, the profane swear-fs, the Sabbath»breaker’s conscience, tell4 em of their sins; yet notwithstandingr all the checks of conscience, they win,i» on in their sins, and fill up the mea-iires of their iniquities, and so make con-. i ence, to fill up the black scroll at indict-nents against them, whereby they are all1.2 Tbs . Black Bookeverlastin^y condertuied- O! if menwoud he bit .convicted in their con.sciences ob:tke'eyi! of their wavs, whentheir consciences tell them of in! Howmany thou-and# nii^ht be brought homeby repemmce to life eternal, who nowrun headlong r-o their destruction ! I ampersuaded that m my who cozen and cheatby undermining and rverse'ling, by usingfalse and light weights and measures, can-not cl,use, but meet with many checksfrom their consciences. And O that men >would be convinced of their great evil.Hear this, O ye that swallow up thej,needy by false weights and measures! O %be convinced in thy conscience, make con* itscience thy friend now, by forsaking thyevil practices, lest conscience prove thy foeto torment thee for ever. But men, now.a days, instead of being convinced in theic rnconsciences of the evil of their ways, are i;not ashamed to commit all manner o<abominations, and that with greediness:;and then by all the blame upon their poorconsciences; And why so ? It was mjconscience, say they., As many of ou:Roman Catholics, and diabolical Ranters;Quakers and notorious libertines, in tl -sour days, havd.laid all their impieties anefVhorrid blasphemies upon their consciences b;Ask them but the reason why they de»nof Conscience, i $’> Christ and the scriptures, and ca$t off ' e• iordinariGes. and ministry of i)ktj>V, . d/.ilive as they list, ahd refuse suhj^ci’on to. lintagistr ites, and in their action^ .-fbecAuieHworse than beasts; v-hyv, they do. holdnjsuch damnable and devilish-opinit ns; both: against G<xl and Christ; yea-against hu-imanity itself? Ask tlaem the reason ofithese things ? and what do they say ? It isi from the light within us, it is the libertyiof ovp: consciences: And have we not' sought for liberty cf conscience? Ah!cursed wretches, the light within you is. darkness ; Is this the liberty of thy con-/'science r No, no, this, is the liberty of thy-Musts, and {heaiehisions of the devil. Thourinhast searejd thy conscience with a hot iron ;«but yet at iast thy conscience, though thouJifiast defiled it ever so much, will put thewaddle upon the right horse, and chargeidthee home with ail the blame. Is libertyijof. conscience, a liberty to sin ? No, Godoebid, S/jatt ru'C h/:, saith St. Paul, Romansi. 1. that grace may abound? O God for-*id, I dare not, saith a gracious heart,onscience tells me I must not. . bhw shallsaith Joseph, Gen. xxx. 7. do this great^wickedness, and sin against God ? The grace\>f God, saith the apostle. Tit. ii. 11, 12.,\bat brings salvation, teachetk men to deny\\tpgodlinets, and worldly lusts, and to live14The Black ' Bidsoberly, rigbfeoitsly anil godly in this presentWorld, and not to live as we list, which isa si^ri of no grace at all. ■-A truly tender conscience will be. trulytender of committing sin, and will have acircumspect care over himself, how he walksand how he lives, that so the name rif Godand Christ be not blasphemed; But, inthese last and worst of times, wherein men, atSt. Paul saith male shipwreck of faith and agood conscience; Men have not minded thisat all, but have taken full liberty to com¬mit all manner of sins. And I pray Godthat this sin be not charged upon those,who, instead of restraining men from sin,and punishing them for sin, have toleratedthem in sin, if not countenanced them tosin. But let men take heed how they sin,because grace abounds: For, saith theapostle, Heb. x. 26, 27. If ive sin wilfully,after that we have received the knowledge ofthe truth, there remaincih no more sacrifice forsin, but a certain fearful looking for of judg¬ment. Rom. i. 8. For the wrath of God isrevealed from "heaven against all ungodlinessand unrighteousness of men. Read these t wotexts, all ye that take liberty to sin, be¬cause the grace of God hath abounded.—How will ye be able to look God and con¬science in the face : certainly you will ne¬ver be able to do it, unless you repent;IS:litCtnsihnt*. 15ior if racn will sin willingly,, notwithstand-; ng ^11 these checks cf conscience, their©nsriences will condemn them before the■".ord. For certain it is, there is a consci*>: pee in every man that sees and observes,nd takes notice of all his ways, and willeep a just account of them, and so be adtness either for or against the soul, atne day of judgment. What was it that»ade the apostles sc joyful in all their. roubles and persecutions ? Was it not thei it ness of their consciences! See ^ Corin.12. ‘ Our rejoicing is this*’ saith St...mil, ‘the testimony of our consciences.^f!j/hat was it that made Paul and Silas singji prison for joy? Was it not that theirransciences told them they were happv andessed men, notwithstanding all their suf-ings and reproaches.V\ Now what conscience is, I shall brieflynew you, and so conclude. Conscience isi; thing with which God endued the souli man by creation, and is for our com-rt, if we live as we ought to do; butH be a dreadful terror to them that lived die in thtir sins. For this consciences in Adam before the fall, though not ascondemner till his fall; for where theret\ no sin, what needeth an accuser ? Sogjng as Adam kept the comnandments ofnod, there was no cause of cionscicnce to16The Black Bookcondemn him. But, as soon as Adamtransgressed, it flew in his face, whichmade him floe from the face of God, asyou may see, Gen. iii. 7, ‘ The eyesof them both were opened,’ their consci¬ences accused them, and they hid themselves And this conscience is only in menand women; for brute beasts, wanting^reason, are not capable of conscience, andirthe blasts when they die, there is an end[.of them. But, it is not so with man, forconscience in man, folioweth the man far- .ther than the grave. For, if men might .bury their consciences with them in theitgraves, they might be happy notwithstandi.ing all their abuses of conscience! For mancfc-mtime^, against all reason, enquiry, or.conscience, doth worse than the worst obeasts. And this conscience keepeth hicourt in the heart, and there sits upon thilife or the death of the soul; and according as he tinds every man’s work, so dot)he pass sentence of condemnation or at ,solution, for there is no bribing of corscience. Conscience will speak the trueof every man’s ways before the Lord, hjthey good or be they evil: ‘ If our heartcondemn us,’ saith St. Paul, « Godgreater than our hearts.’ That is our cjwscience.And God hath given this power to co>tf Camcierue, 17I scicricc, because men would have no pleaor excuse before the Lord. It was notlirilate’s washing of his hands, and say-! mg. * I am guiltless of the blood of thisMust man,* that could wash away the guiltbf Christ's blood from his conscience ;—; Pilate’s conscience told him, that Christvas a just man, and that he saw no cause) bf death in hirn at all, Luke xxiih ‘24. And3 yet cursed Pilate, contrary to the light ofnis own conscience, delivered the Lord of• life into the hands of bloody men to be: rucified, and so brought the guilt of hislood upon his own soul.He that will not endure conscience toeprove him for his sins, certainly laves too to hell without controul; and he thatill not endure conscience to tell him ofis sins here, shall, whether he will or not,ffer sufficient torment for his sins here-fter; for an evil conscience is an hell to:3the soul here, and shall be the hell of hellsntjiiereafrer.Now tfyen, if there be such a thing Inign as conscience, and that this conscienceall either justify or condemn him, thenevery man take heed how he orders hisnversation in the world. Do not giveave to yourselves to think, say or do anyling, but what you are willing to ownore the Lord at the last day. There*isIt.!)i3 8 Tbt Black Btokfore, let every one of us so think, and sodo, that we may not have conscience tocondemn us j but let us live as those thatexpect to have conscience witness for thembefore the Lord, that with godly sincerity "fthey have had their conversation in the.world. But what multitudes are there inthis world, that live as there were no con¬science at all, neither God nor devil, nei¬ther heaven nor hell; ‘ whose God is theirbelly, and whose end is destruction/ as St.Paul saith, Phil. iii. 9. ‘ Who declare theirsin as Sodom, and hide it not. Wo untothem/ saith the Lord, 4 they have reward-ed evil to themselves, Isaiah iii. 6. Thismay be said of thousands of us, urhosecttuntenance , testisy against them, theirwanton carriages, painted faces, nakedbreasts, powdered locks, and other anticfashions, testify against thousands of bothmen and women, that they do little mindthis great truth, that conscience can andwill declare all their doings to God. ProudHamans, drunken Nabals, whoring Jeze¬bels, declare their sin as Sodom, and hideit not. And as for conscience, they turnhim off. But, let these miserable wretchesknow this, as the Prophet saith, 4 Wo un¬to them, who have rewarded evil untothemselves.’ They have a long, black,bloody bill, for conscience to open againstr iatDi(i'J>-Xii of Ccmcienti.1&!*kcm at the last day of the term of their- lives; as soon as ever their souls are de*parted from their bodies, sentence shall be; passed against them, according to theiriiight,. and the testimony of their own cori-- science.Seeing then conscience will give an ac-;:ount of every one’s ways, let us not slight; :;onscien«e; let us not stop the mouth ofi ronscience, seeing conscience can and will;peak, and tell us what we are. Manyhere are that go about to stop the mouthl>f conscience, when conscience deals plain-y with them, and tells them of their sins:!p! they cannot endure to hear of that.But remember the miserable end of Judas:,l; AVhat said Judas’ conscience to him ? Thoued thy Lord and Master for a/could Judas’ silver stop the mouth of hisjconscience ? No, Judas’ conscience so ter-trifled him, that he flung in the money, regain, and went and hanged himself.So likewise, remember the fearful stateb£ Spira, and many others, whose con-acience made them possess the wrath ofJGod here on earth. ‘ A wounded spirit,'"S jjsaith Solomon, ‘ who can bear ?’ A tor->itnenting and condemning conscience who!i:an endure? O! there is no resisting oficunscience 1 it is God’s vicegerent in theAh, covetous wretch ! Butimgsir.s,20 The Bhck Bookfoul: When conscience speaks threateninglanguage to many, for such and such sinsthey seek to turn conscience out of doors.But because they cannot possibly do this,they strive to stop his mouth, by runningwilfully into sins, like men that desperate¬ly give up their souls to the devil, and somake shipwreck of faith, conscience, soul,and all for ever. And then followeth(what we have seen by woeful experience) •'’ self-stabbing, self-hanging, drowning, orpoisoning, or some such like accursed end.Q consider this, all ye that forget God,and make no conscience of your ways; iyou undermine your own salvation. Mendeal with conscience as Felix did with Paul,Acts xxiv. 15. They will hear conscienceso long as he speaks gross; but when con¬science tells them roughly of their sins,their darling sins; then they have enoughof conscience, and so put him off till theybe at better leisure.When there was no king in Israel, everyman did what was good in his own eyes;so, where there is no conscience alive inthe ^oul, men live as they list. But yetfor all this, conscience will speak home atlast. ' ’If thou art a drunkard, or an adulterer,or an unjust dealer, or whatsoever sin it isthat thou art guilty of, conscience willof Conscience. 21. nake it known. And if at last conscience:ii!oth condemn, thou shalt never be savediJut, on the contrary* though .men and de-tlils say thou art an hypocrite or the like,ret if thou hast the testimony of thy con-tbience, God will own thee as just and1 ighteous. One dram of peace of con-jtpience is worth a thousand wmrlds: Whatr/ould the darpned in bell give for a little3 if this lasting joy, this peace which p>ssethj 1 understanding; The want of this is hell,, lea, worse than 1^11.V| Think upon this, O ye great ones of theworld, who live in pleasure! rememberij|at there is a conscience, and that therea God, and that thou hast a preciousd immortal soul; which if thy cewqience witness against, shall be thrownotto hell. You that eat the fat and sweet! f the earth, and drink wine in bawls,told clothe yourselves in silk, rememberfhis, that conscience takes notice of all thylays, of the pride oi thy heart of the va»wty of thy lile, and settteth all down in hisiJBlack Book.’ You that, like the har-t, Prev. vii. cry, ‘ Let us take our fill ofs ve and pleasure,’ consider that all theseings must have an end. When ail isme, depend upon it, the bdl must1, and you must all dance after death’se, who ate now singing and swingingL22 The Black Bookyourslvcs' in wordly pleasures and de-'lights, O ! if God would say to any «soul of you, as he did t6 the rich fool in ‘Luke xiv. iO, * This night thy soul shallbe taken from thee.’ It shall little advan* -tag? you then to weep and cry, O! that Iwere out of these infernal and eternal >flames! O! that I had hearkened when rtime was, to the voice of Christ and mine <own conscience.The sighs and groans of dying men areoften very sad; but the sighs and groan* fof the damned in hell can never be imagin.ed or expressed. 01 consider this, ye thatan away conscience, that quaff and drinkaway conscience, accompanying one ano* vther in sin j take heed you be not one day!to weep over one another’s backs in helh aCertainly whole coachfulls of gallants willbe tumbled down to hell; the Lord awak- ten your sleepy dead consciences before youigo hence and be no more seen. What npity is it, that persons that bear the imageof God, and are, as it were in outside glorypand beauty, gods above others : What pity <!is it, that such beauty should come to bejcembraced by ugly lothsome devils in hell.j:Thousands there are that court and sport^:pine and pant away their lime whose end.is to be burned, and shall at last perish in thell. Fruitless fig-trees they are, that bcififJ4•f Conscience. 23i (thing but leaves, ‘ Cut them down,' saystirist, ‘and case them the into the fire.’ T<§Irish in a prison or on a dunghill, is no*; pg; to die for want of food is nothing:t sarus did so, whilst Dives, with his de-ious fare, died on his bed of dovns, andj«cast into hell. You that lie on beds ofJjry, and have your hangings of needle-,»'k, if you get not Christ an$l a goodt iscience, hcfl shall be your fate, and de*v your companions, to torment you forr. ‘ And who shall be able to stand in;4| day of God's wrath ? And who canfll with everlasting burnings ?’ompanions in sin, shall be companionsHell, and those that can sport and play« with another, shall in hell drag andwent one another, and curse the dayjjji: ever they saw one another, and cryto one another, O what miserableItches were we! to lose the heaven ofns for a little vain delight, the lovefavour of God, for the love and fa-of wicked companions, in whoseence we were more delighted, than ineverlasting love of God, whose plea¬ds are pleasures for evermore. Whatj/iteth it now, that we have had ourand cur music, our fill and our full^earthly delights? O wretched crea-|:s .that we are! Who shall deliver us24 The Black Book of Conscience.from this death, these miserable tormentWo unto Usv we have rewarded evilour own souls, we are banished for efrom the presence of the Loi J, cud hiutterly lost that inward peace of ocnsciendfthe want whereof, addeth torments to otorments, a?;d ntaketh us in our miser;more exceedingly miserable. Now tLord give every one of us this peace, tjoy ; the which, that we may all have, tlpeace of God, which passeth uli undr'^tanding, keep our hearts and minds in vlove and knowledge of Jesus Christ; awash and purge our consciences from dworks, that we »:ay serve the living GiWhich*that we may all do, the gracecur Lord Jesus Christ, be with youAmen.Tate hc*(f to yeerstlre* vthat t^usVente y .'w hsi'C;■Pjr emscience will datv.n, and centciesee wW »ar«F TN I 5.