THEChriftian’s Pocket-Book:OR, A BUNDLE OFFAMILIAR EXHORTATIONST O T H EPRACTICE OF PIETT.JUCDINCTLY AND ADVISEDLY ADAPTED TO THEMEANEST CAPACITIES, BOTH AS TOSTYLE AND MATTER.BY A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL.I THESSALONIANS iv. I.We Iffeecb you, and exhort you by the Lord Jefus^ thatas ye have received of as how ye ought to walk and lapleafe God, fo ye would abmutJ more and more.HEBREWS xili. 22./ lefcech you, fujfer the word of Exhortation, for I havewritten unto you in few words.rTO WHICH ARE ADDED,[DIRECTIONS FOR READING the BIBLE}and /hewing its Worth and Excellency.'GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON?SALT MARKET, l8o2,*PREFACE.THERE are many who either arenot able to buy books of greatprice, or not willing to carry aboutwith them books of great bulk; there¬fore, we have caft into this fmallportable Pocket-bojk, the followingBundle of Exhortations, which, wehope, compendioufly contain the chieffubftantialsof practical religion; whichare of moil common rfe, and that pea- tpie fhould molt carefully mind, andbe daily exercifed in ; We have advik |edly contracted matters into fmall |bounds, and expreflcd them in plain |terms, fo that we expeCl, none will ligrudge either the price they pay for this |Ichedule, or their pains in pending it.l,We would not have the Reader fatisfy |himfelf with once reading, or viewingiit over, to pleafe his curious or critical ,fancf anent what is written ; it is notLthe feeding of fancy which the Author!defigns, but propohng duty, and ex-Jhorting to the daily praClice thereof;,jhence we exhort you to read over thefeexhortations frequently, and to formyour daily walk agreeably thereto: wewiih God's blefiing on your perufalthereof.1ABundle of Familiar Exhortations.EXHORTATION I.CONSIDER your foul concerns withthe greateit ferioufnefs; all otherconcerns are but trifles and vanities incomparifon hereof: i neon fide ration isthe bane and ruin of fouls, it the parentof floth and of iccurity, and die greathinder^nce of needful refolutipn : andfpecially conflder, that ye have preciousimmortal fouls, which, after the end ofthis Ihort life, will live for ever, eitherin everlafting happinefs, or everlaflingmifery. It is your chief concern to fee tothefalvatkm of your fouls, as ye wouldnot be found inconflderate fools, orJlupid fots, Mat, xvi. 20. Hof. ii. 12,Exh. 2. Lay deeply to heart yournatural ftate of fin and mifery: Bethink:you, that befldes your original guilt,and the corruption of your whole na¬ture, which was brought to the worldwith you, that you are alfo guiky ofinnumerable adiual fins, by breakingall the commands of God in thought,word, and deed: for all which youare worthy of God’s heavy curfe and4 THE CHRISTIAN’Swrath to purfue you, both in thisworld, and that which is to come: andneither can you relieve yo&rfelves out* of this dangerous condition. Pfal. li.4, Rom. v. 8, 19. Gal. iii, 10.Exh. 3. Flee fpeedily to Chrift Jefusthe only Son of God, and the only Sa¬viour of finners; renouncing your ownrighteoufncfs, by true faith refi andrely upon his merits, and imputedrighteoufnefs, firmly expecting to bejullified, pardoned, and faved thereby.Rom. v. 22, 24, 25. Rom. x. 4, 5.Exh. 4. Refledl ferioully on yourbaptifmal vows and covenant, wherebyye are fad bound to be the Lord’s ;and to renounce, and refi ft the devil,the world, and the flefh, as the greatenemies of-your peace and /alvation,And make confcience of keeping your■folemn engagements, as ye defire andhope to partake of Chrid and his bene¬fits : Alfb, fet apart fome fhare of time,■on purpofe to renew your baptifnialcovenant in your own perfons, exprefs-ly accepting Chrid jefus for your Pro¬phet, Pried, and King; for your por¬tion, guide, guard, and all in all, anddevoting yovrri’elves to him, to be his/objects and. feryants as long as ycPOCKET-BOOK. $live : Frequently renew your perfonatcovenant with lii m, and faith hillykeep it. Ifa. xliv. 5. Horn. xii. 2^Exod. xix. 5.F.xh. 5. Make an entire relignatloncf yourfelves to God, and of all thatyou enjoy, and have an affection for j.referring frankly to his will, wifdomand goodnefs, to difpofe of you ?*ndyours in all things, in all cafes, andat all times, as feemcth good and rightin his fight: live a life of dependenceon him, and trull in him, who canmake all things work together for goodI to you. Matth. vi. 10. Horn. viii. 18.Fxh. 6. Daily read foine portion of1 the holy feriptures, diligently meditate1 on what you read, and tdudy to undcr-i Hand and remember what you medi¬tate ; that thereby you may come to; know both fin and duty, and how to¬il: be both holy and happy ; read alioI other good prAdlical books ; and feek.the Lord’s blefiing on your readings.John v. 39. 2 Tim. iii. 15, 16, 17.Ex. 7. Fray daily unto God Almigh¬ty morning and evening at leaft ^ andfee you be not formal or iazy in yourI devotions ; and, betides fferet clofetsprayer, alfo make confcience of familyTHE CHRISTIAN'Sduties ; fet up, and keep up the wor-ihip of God in your families, by read*ing in the Bible, and by prayers andpraifes to God, who only can bidsyou and yours in all your addons andii^terefls, prayerlelh perlbns, are juftlyto be looked on as god Ids perfons.rial. Iv. 17. Mat. vi. 6, 7, 9. Jolhuaxxiv. 15.Exh. 8. Exercife yourfelves alfoforaetimes to Ipiritual meditations;think often of the joys of heaven, ofthe torments of hell, of the Iweetnefsof God’s promiies, of the terriblenefsof his threatnihgif, of the hatefu-nefsof (in, of the beauty of hclinefs, of thevanity of the world, of the advantageof real godiinefs, of your hazards thro’manifold temptations, and of the read!--aels and ability of Jelus Chrift to helpand ■comfort you in all caies, <kc. Whenye rife up, or ly down, when ye walkin the rtreets, or in th-e fields, whenyou are employed in any part of yourlawful calling, even at all times, andevery where, by night or by day, youmay have good thoughts towards God,and about vour foul concerns Gen.j . ■axiv 63. Pf. Ixiii. 6. civ. 34. Phil iv. 8Exh. 9, Entertain and nourifh tenPOCKET-BOOK.' 7derly the motions and impulfes of God’sSpirit on your fpirits: when ye findkindly inclinations to duty, full in w;ththem ; when you Fed inward cnecksand fears with refpedt jo fin, improvethem t^teftrain you from al! iniquity;take fpecial heed you do not/fmotherconvictions,or wilfully refilt and quenchI the Spirit’s workings in your hearts.!Kom. viii. 1,5,—13, 1 ThefF. v. 19. 20.Exh. 10. Wait pundlually on publicordinances, and always prepare forappearing before the Lord in the fanc-ituary; hear the word reverently. Letlit be your earned; defire to meet with.uGod, and to get your fouls edified inthe grace and knowledge of Chrift Je¬hus ; make particular application bothbf promifes and threatnings, agreeablyto your cafes: When you are returnedihome, meditate and confer on what1 you have been hearing; and frequentlypray that God may give you good of.ijtis word: Neglect not to mind youripainifter in your fupplications, that heitnay be always bleiled with divinepfliftance and luccefs. Pfal. Ixiii. 1, 2.Mac. x-v. 10. Luke viii. 13, 18. 2:,fhcf£ iii. 1.1 Exh. 11. Frequently take the facra-S THE CHRISTIAN’Sment of the Lord’s Supper, but ere youventure on that holy ordinance, pre¬pare carefully by examining yourfelvesanent your foul’s Rate and condition,try if you be in a holy, humble, lively,and tender frame; penitently mournover your fins: refolve upon amend¬ment and newnefs of life ; renew youfperfonal covenant, and ufe the facrament as a feal of it; ferve a bill of di- Ivorce againlt all your.idols and llrange||lovers, that have courted and carrie 1your affedtions off Chrilf; hunger andthirft for clofe communion with him::in the adl of communicating watchinarrowly over your treacherous hearts/that they gad and go not affray fromthe Lord. And after you have com¬municated, try what good ye have got¬ten, let it appear in your after walk,that ye have been with Jefus, feaflingwith him, and upon him. i Cor. xi. 26.Exh. 12. Remember the fabbath-d&y, to keep it holy, not only by pub¬lic worfhip, but by religious duties inyour famihes, and in fe.sret: put awayall vain, impertinent, and earthlythoughts; talk not of worldly affairsneither do any worldly bufinefs, bnwhat works of mercy and neceflityPOCKET-BOOK,may call you to; mifpend no part bfthe Lord’s day, cither in idle difcourfe,loitering at home, or unnecefTary walk'mg in the fi-elds. Ejc. xx. S,—11.Exh.13, Look on fin to be the word:-thing in the world, as being defilingco your confciences, mifchievous anddamnable both to foul and body ; andarhich is worft of all, difhonourabletnd difpleafing to the great God ofleaven. Jer. ii. 19., Exh. 14. Shun and refill temptations^itiil upon your guard, watching over/our deceitful hear 3, keeping the door>f your lips, and being circumfpedl inIdl your ways; you are encompaffedmbout on all hands with fnares andnemptationa. Mat. xxvi. 41. krov. vi.23. Pfal. xxxix. 1, 2. Eph. v. 15.Ill Pet. v. 8, 9.Exh. 13. Daily repent of fin: youlitre daily finning in thought, word and.deed, for which ye Ihouid every even¬ing take an account of yourfelyesj andMiat faults you find ye are guilty of,toufel's them, mourn over them, refolve,>y God’s grace, not to do the like again:tave a care your repentance prove notfighing and going backward : more¬over, not only repent of your ow»nso THE CHRISTIAN'Sfaults, but lament over the' fins ofyour relations, neighbours, and the'places ye live in. Adts xvii. 30. Job kxxxiv. 32. Pfalm cxix. 136.Exh. 16. Mortify and bear dawn theinward paffions, and corrupt afrectionaof your heart, fuch as anger, envy,malice, privy hatred, revenge, luftfi^l-nefs, covetoufnefs,' pride, ambition,.) rand all fecret incunations to impiety:till your fouls be purged of thefe, yecannot expect the Holy Ghoft willdwell in you as a temple. Col. iii. 5,3. 1 Cor. iii. 16, 17.Exh. 17. Keep at the utmoft diftancefrom the common fins of the times,from curfing, fvvearing, drunkennefs,Healing, cheating, lying, reviling,bandy-language, fornication, and alluncleannels, deriding or mocking truegodlinefs, or wifhing evil to the god¬ly*, &e. For becaufe of thefe thing*cometh the wrath of God on the guilty.Eph. y. 3, 4, 5.Exh. 18. Keep out of ill company,bad examples corrupt good manners:Think fhame to converfe familiary wit©penly profane and debauched perfbnsjthis will neither be for your credit, jj.Comfort, nor profit; rather ckufePOCKET-BOOK. ifituo'os, fober and godly people to be| your ordinary companions: Such a mani as ye would be, draw you to like; company. Prov. xxii. 24. Pf cxix. 63*Exh. 19. Lead a holy and religiouslEfe, walking finccrely according to therighteous commands of God : Set the.Lord always before your face; contentmot yourfelves with a bare form, and: outward fhew of godlinefs without thej power of kj but be intirely holy in.allyour ways. 1 Pet. i. 15, 16. 2 Tim. iii. j.Exh. 2o< Be good in^ all relations;mot only a good Ghriftian in general,::: that daily reads, and prays, and runs}to preachings and communions; butdbe a good hufband; a good wife; be adutiful parent, and an obedient child;Hbe a righteous mafler, and a diligentland honeft fervanty be a good peace-si able neighbour, wronging nobody ei-| therwith tongueor hands; thus be goodifl and godly in all relations and capacities,i- Rom; xii. iX. Col. iii. 18,-24.| Exh. 2 J. Be flrong in the grace thatI is in' Ghrift; be not fatished with Imallmeafures of grace; ufe all fit and pro¬per means for growing in grace, andkeeping it in lively exercife; withoutthe exercife of grace, ye can db noth-msr.atTHE CHRISTIAN'Sing to purpofe either in performing ,J(|duties, fubduing corruptions, bearingafHiotions, or refiiling temptations,&c. Have a care of fp: ritual iloth,unwatchfulnefs: daily make ufe ofChrift for quickening and increaiingyour graces. John i. 16. 2 Pet. 1, 5,—9. 2 Pet. iii. 18.EsJi. 22, Ainh and fix your affec- jlilions right: Love not the world, norany earthly comfort immoderately:Give your heart’s love to preciousGhrifl above all things, who is only rworthy of your chief deflree. Col. iii. t1,2. 1 John ii. 15. Mat. x^ii. 37.Exh. 23. Be not vain or proud ofany temporal thing: neither of riches, ,,honour, beauty, ftrengch of body, parts Hti.nor gifts of mind, nay not of grace it-leif; all earthly poireflions and goods areuncertain, vain, and liable to innumer- |iable chances, and changes. Eccl. i. 2,14.Exh. 24. Be moderate in all things: (lin your judgement of yourfelves, andTopinion of others: be moderate ineating, that you be not gluttonous;in drinking, that it be not to excels ;in apparel, that ye be not prodigal;•in your houfe-keeping, that ye hretchnot either beyond your rank or ability;:i 1POCKET-BOOK. 13ia your recreations, that ye mifpendnot precious time; fobriety is alwaysfafe and commendable. Philip, iv. 3.Tit. ii. 12.Exh. 25. Make as much conference:i of (in and duty in fecret before Gods alone, as openly in the fight of men:I have a care of Pharifaical righteoufnefs.Gen. xxxix. 9. Mat- vi. 1, 4, 6.Exh. 26. Follow your lawful callingI diligently, never be idle, but have your1 hand always in a turn, the hand ofI the diligent maketh rich; yet be not foj much fwallovved up with youf worldlyI affairs, as to forget God, or your fouls,i;or juftle out religious duties ; keep aI good mind in all your affairs, fwayingI to no extreme, either of neglecSUngyour lawful calling, under the pre¬tence of conflant devotion, or of toomuch engagement in throng of world-rly bufinefs, under the pretence ofdutiful providing for your families;every thing is beautiful in its feafon.Eccl ix. 10. Rom. xii. ii.Exh. 27. Look more to God’s pro¬vidence and bleffmg for making you] thrive and profper in the world, thani to your own Ikili or induftry ; and, as■ you would expedi God’s blefling, bei4 THE CHRISTIAN’Sjuft, upright, and honeft in yourdealings j cheating no man, defraud¬ing no man, by lying, equivocating,,or over-reaching. Prov. xxiu 10.-Exh. 28. Be content with your lot, I•whatever be the circumftances and jingredients thereof; be not your owncarvers, left you cut your fingers inthe carving; whatever God gives toyou, whatever he takes frona you, .acquiefce in his will, which fhould !never be quarrelled $ own your needydependence on his providence, and in tall the changes of your condition, fay,Good is the will of the Lord. Heb. txiix. 5. Job i 2i, 22.Exh. 29. Bear afEi vSlions patiently andfubmiffively, and be more concernedto get thefan&ified ufeof your troubles, ,than how to be freed from them: lookto the hand of God, in all the pains, ifickneft, erodes, hxftes, difappoint-ments, reproaches and vexations ye j jimeet with; in faith and hope, call your -cares and burdens upon the Lord. Heb.xii. 5, 9, 11. Pfal Iv. 22. 1 Pet. v. 7. 1Exh. 30. Thaok God heartily forall the mercies you receive; whether 1with refpeeft to your bodies or yourfouls; freely acknowledge you get,.POCKET-BOOK. 15more mercies than you are ■worthy of,more than you improve or guide well,more than you are fuitably thankfulfor, and far more mercies than manyothers get, who are better, and moreferviceable to God than you: Reckonit a great mercy that you are aut ofhell, and that you have the opportu¬nity of the precious gofpel of Chrift:notice and record all the mercies ofGod ; and fometimes take a while onfet purpofe, to thank and praile Godfor them. Pfal. ciii. to the end.Exh 31 Specially remark and treafurei|il up fpiritual experiences; fuch as the: anfwer of prayer, vidlory over tempta-tions, the fenlibie prefence of God in; ordinances and duties, &c. never deny,hide, or fmother Chrift’s kindnefs, thisi is baflard humility, and true ingrati-]i tude. Pf. xlii. 6, 8. Pf. Ixvi. 16, 17, 20.Exh. 32. Be charitable to the poor,| as far as you are able; if you cannotI help them with your purfe, help them|| with your*prayers and fympathy, and| fuch offices of kindnefs and humility,| as may make the miferable to blefs you.Prov. xxii. 9. xix. 17. Job xiii, 29.Exh. 33. Study more to be wellj grounded in the fundamental princi-i6 THE CHRISTIAN’Spies of religion, than to fpend yourtime about matters debatable, and lefsnecefTary to be known; fee you donothing that may break the peace andunity of the church: go not withoutthe bounds of your Ration, under a,pretence of zeal and a public fpirit»John xvii. 3. 1 Pet. iii. 15. Pf cxxxi. 1.Exh. 34. Carry a due refpe<5l bothto magiftrates and minifters; obeythem in all things lawful, if in anything you be public faulters and offen¬ders., willingly liibjedl both to civilpunilhment, and to church difcipHneand cenfures: regard and reverencerulers as your fuperiors. Rom. xiii. 1,—8. Heb. xiii. 13.hxh. 35. Do all you can in your Ra¬tion for promoting the interefts of thegoipeJ, as God doth call and enableyou: join not at all with ill men andperlecutors, to trouble any body fortheir religion and confcience: Sympa¬thize with the perfecuted people ofGod in foreign churches; alfo f’ympa-thize much with the blinded Jews,and Eleathen nations, daily pray thatGod may pity and convert them, andmake the light of the gofpel fhinjthrough the world. Adds ix. 26, 29.flPOCKET-BOOK. 17Jbbadiah 11, 18. Pfaim H. 18.Exii. 36, Refolve nnon fnffcringsfor Chrift ; be at leaft martyrs in refo-lution j if you have a mind for Chriftniand the crown, you muft alfb be con¬tent to take Chrill and the crofs ; thisis one of the fpecial articles in his newcovenart bargain with finners; pre¬pare for trials, you know not whatyou may meet with ere you go off theIftage of time: Arm yourfelres againft£11 peradventures. Match, xvi. 24.Exh. 37. Mind religion as your mainj bufinefsj and all your other affairs butas petty by bufineifes; be not as thebulk and body of the blinded demen-: ted world, who live without God,|without Chrift, and without hope;" wlio live as if they were not to die, asI if there were neither heaven nor hell,1 nor a day of judgement after this life.f.Eph. ii. 12. Tit. i. 16.Exh. 38. Propofe God’s glory as!: the chief end of all your actions, and1 make his word the rule cf them : take(heed that bafe, felfifh by-ends be notyour main end either in duties towards1 God, or towards man : He that walk¬ed! uprightly, walketh furely. 1 Cor.|i x. 31. Prov. x. 9.13 THE CHRISTIAN’SExh. 39. Spemi your time well am«profitably; time is a precious, but apaffing thing, and, when once paft,cannot be brought back again. Whenyou are to leave time, nothing willmore gall you, than the tormentingthoughts of mifpent time: as, on thoother hand, nothing will be morecomfortable, than the conlideration of/ j]1managingyourgoldenhoursprofitafely:;mind, God will call you to an account,for every minute of time, how you• have improven that excellent talent: O 1what a valuable, yet what an abufed j vniercy, is precious time. Eph. v. 16.Exh 40.**M;.nd ferioufly ye are frail jjlf.mortal creatures, liable to a thoufand ;-dangerous accidents; Moft certain it 1is, you mult die, but when, where, or -how, no body knows : Neither young, |nor old, can promife themlelves a day, |or an hour, beyond the moment they |breath in; therefore, account it the |care of cares to prepare for death, |judgement, and eternity: Study to be:|always ready,'by making your peacewith God, by iecuring an iotereil inChrift, by living near God in the dailypra&ice of piety, and by avoiding allwickednefs, that when the Lord fhallPOCKET-BOOK. i9ad you a fummons to remove hencei your long home, you may be found: to die, and to itep into eternity.:eut. xxxii. 29. Pf. ix. 3, 9, 12. Heb.. 27. i Pet. i. 14. James iv. 8.THE E N D.MR EC?IONS on Reading the BIBLE ;wherein its Worth wd Excellency are JbcwecLT N reaej^ng the word of God, ifJ ye would profit by it, then lookI God for his bleiling upon it whene begin, pray that he may biefs it tolou, and open your ears and heartsd hear and comply with it as thei'oice of God.I il. R^ad it with reverence, not ashe word'of man ; but. as it is indeed-,(he word of the great GodEndeavour to get your hears im-’ireffed by his blefied word. The doc-irines, laws, and very Spirit of ourpibles, ihould be tranfetibed into our!rery fouls. Let then God’s word Rand:iot only in your Bibles, but dwell inour hearts.2© . DIRECTIONS ONIII. Have an eye to Chrift in cvesjlthing ye read; for he is tiie end, fcopiand luhftance of the whole Bible ; anevery thing in it is reducible to him* .IV. Mark the fpecial pafl'ages of tfc Iword, either thefe that are mold irrportant in themfelves, -or moft appi :cable to you. Mark the duties erjoined, and fins forbidden, with thpromifes to the one, and threatening »againd the other : Fallen thefe upoJyour memories, and hide them in youhearts. Meditate on them, and pr«; .that God may keep th^jrn in you tminds, ready for ule again ft the tim. ..of need. T here are fundry evangelica rlaws and precepts in the word of Godwhich you ftiould obferve; as, beiiev- .ing in God, doing all religious exer-cites in his name, depending upon hitmerits, grace, and intercefhon; look- .ing only for acceptance in liim ; aperfuafion of the neceftity and uleful- jnefs of his offices, as Mediator, Pro-|phet, Pried, and King: An apprehen- .fion of your own ignorance, guilt,weaknefs, mifery, and nothingnelswithout Chrift, a relying on him iaail his offices. We alfo ihouid remark concerning the Spirit* that hREADING THE BIBLE. n /! a Spirit of conviction, illumination,ayer, holinefs, conduft, comfort, andding: So we would accept of his help,'eruli his motions, and influences.V. Confider the worth and excellen-of the word, and how fuitable it isliany date and condition we may beIt is a rich mine of heavenlyiafures, a ftore-houfe of all fpiritualnfolation; a common fhop of medi-les for the foul, full of rich privi-jes, promifes, and large legacies toe people of God: It is a ftarFand flaythe old, an ornament and guide to; a young. In the word of God, welad the love which God bears to h;silildren from all eternity, and will: ntinue to have for them, when timelall be no more. Here are found thetves of the tree of life, which God|lith ordained for the healing of theJitiohs. In a word, here is the truei; dge of controverfies, a hammer foriereticks, a touch-done for dodirine,r rule for our lives, a comforter andftunfellor in this houfe of our pilgrim-ije: a fovereign cordial in all ourJiuls’ didrefles; David found it fo tos fweet experience, Pfaltn cxix. 50.IThis is my comfort in nay afllic-22 DIRECTIONS ON“ tions, for thy word bath quicken“ me. O ! how excellent is the worland who can fet forth all its excellccy ? It is a glafi? to di(cover our fpo«a lamp to guide us in the dark, a fito warm our cold alledtions, a magzinc to fupply us with armour agaiour fpiritual enemies. Here are fuiable cordials for all our various cafei)e it delertion, temptation, povertyficknefs, reproach or perfecution; heiis the heavenly rain, for making fokand tender hearts, here is meat f-iItrong men.and milkfor babethrough the divine blexlinjjwhich,will be both food and phylic to ofouls.It is furely the Chriftian’s duty, t|read and meditate much on God’s mexcellent word, and that with pleafujand delight; the child delights to rehis father’s will and teftament, an]lee what is bequeathed to him ; citizens delight to read their charters, i|fee their privileges; the malefadtacquitted, delights to read his pardonand the prodigal that is deceived incfavour, delights to read the affedfionat jtetters of his father to him: Thenye are received into favour, and bor!READING THE BIBLE. 2.3?f God, you cannot but be the loyerfe)f this moft excellent word of God;md read and meditate on it both day;ind night. Pfalm i. 2.1 VI. We are to contend for the fcrip-curcs ; the precious jewel is too goodro be parted with, Prov. iv. 13. ‘ Keepaer {lie is thy life.’ It is our duty, notonly to love, read, and underhand thefcriptures, but alfo to contend for thefame. Hereticks fight againft it, wenull therefore contend fOr it, Judeyer. 3. The fcriptures are our book ofevidence for heaven, fhall we part with ■pur evidences ? The faints of old wereOoth advocates and martyrs for thetruth, they held faft fcripture, thoughit was at the expence of their lives.David fpends the whole cxix. Pfalm,ito fher* his intimate affedlion to it:IMofes efteems it above all the learninglof other nations, Deut. iv. 5, 6 Solo¬mon prefers it before pearls, Prov. iii.15. Job prefers it before his food, Jobixxii. 12. Jeremiah makes it his joy,njer. xv. 16. In a word, ail the children6f God have been great lovers of•God’s word, and could never be pre¬vailed with to part with it, thoughiiperfecuted for the fame. J ,i *§ •24 DIRECTIONS, &c.VII. Read this excellent word with*application to yourfelves, as if Godvipoke to you by name and firnarae iaevery line of it. Read it as a love-letter fent ftraight from heaven toyou, and to ftir you up to faith andholinefs. Let us accept of its reproofs jand admonitions, with thankfulnefs:and fay, what a great mercy is it,that we may read our Father’s will inour mother tongue ? And, that God |fpeaks his mind fo plainly to us in hisword, fhewing us v/hat we are tobelieve, what we are to do, and wijatwe are to pray for, in o^der to God’s^lory, and ou*7 own happinefs.FINIS.GLASGOW,TTilNTED BY t. AND M, RQBERTfOI*,, 1802. .IT