CHEAP TRACTS, r o. 10,Awful Phenomena of Nature !Boiling- Fountains in Iceland ;A VISIT TO THECataracl of Niagara f(The greatest water-fall in the world.)A late ascent to Mount Blanc ;( The highest Mountain in Europe.)AND,r State of London during the Plague.DUNFERMLINE *.PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER,BOILING FOUNTAINS'IN ICELAND.The valley of Regliam, in Iceland, is richlycultivated and watered by a fertile stream ; it isremarkable for containing several hot springs orboiling fountains, which throw up water to animmense height, and so hot that no person cantouch it without being scalded. The principalof these springs, called the Geyser, issues froma circular mound of silicious earth ; at the topof which is a large circular basin, about fortyfeet diameter, from the centre of which thewater issues. A modern traveller gives thefollowing account of a visit to this famous springAt nine o’clock I heard a hollow subter¬raneous noise which was thrice repeated in the:course of a few moments ;—the two last reports jfollowed each other more quickly than the first!and second had done. It exactly resembled thedistant firing of cannon, and was accompanheach time with a perceptible, though very sliglshaking of the earth, almost immediately aftv-.hu-u, die boiling of the water increased to>aether with the stream, and the whole wasViolently agitated. At first, the water onlyrolled without much noise over the etWe of thebasin, but this was almost instantly followed bya jet, which did not rise above ten or twelvefeet, and merely forced- op the water in theCentre’ of the basin, but was attended with aloud roaring explosion j this jet fell as soon asit had reached its greatest height, and then thewater flowed over the margin still more' thanbefore, and in less than half a minute a secondjet was thrown up in a similar manner to theformer. Another overflowing of the water suc¬ceeded, after which it immediately rushed downabout three-fonrths of the way into the basin.Describing one of these jets which rose in acolumn of water not less than ninety feet inheight, and about fifty-one feet in diameter, thetraveller says—The bottom of it was: a pro¬digious body of white foam ; higher up, amidstthe vast clouds of steam that had burst from thepipe, the water was seen mounting in a compactcolumn, which, at a still greater elevation, burstinto innumerable long and narrow streamlets ofspray, that were either shot to a vast height inthe air in a perpendicular direction, or thrownout from the side, diagonally, to a prodigiousdistance. Tire excessive transparency of thebody of water, and the brilliancy of the dropsa-; the sun shone through them, considerablyadded to the beauty of the spectacle. As soonas the fourth jet was thrown out, which was4much less than tile former, ami scarcely at theinterval of two minutes from the first, the watersunk rapidly in the basin, with a rushing- noise,and nothing was to be seen but the column ofsteam, which had been continually increasingfrom the commencement of the eruption, andwas now ascending perpendicularly to an amaz¬ing height, as there was scarcely any wind,expanding in bulk as it rose, but decreasing indensity, till the upper part of the column gradual¬ly lost itself in the surrounding atmosphere. Icould now walk in the basin to the margin ofthe pipe, which descends vertically to the depth,according to Povelsen and Olafsen, of betweenfifty and sixty feet. It was full twenty minutesafter the sinking of the water, from the basin,before I was able to sit down in it, or to bear myhands upon it without burning myself.My tent was next pitched "at the distance ofthree or four hundred yards from the Geyser,near a pipe or crater of considerable dimensions,in which I had hitherto observed nothing ex¬traordinary. At half-past nine, whilst I wasemployed in examining some plants gatheredthe day before, I was surprised by a tremen¬dously loud and rushing noise, like that arisingfrom the fall of a great cascade, immediately atmy feet. On putting aside the canvass of mytout, to observe what could have occasioned it, Isaw within a hundred yards of me, a column ofwater rising perpendicularly into the air,from the places just mentioned, to a vast height jbut what tliis height might be, 1 was so over-pewered by my feelings that I did not, for some¬time, think of endeavouring to ascertain. In1 my first impulse I hastened only to look for myportfolio, that I might, attempt at least, to re¬present upon paper what no words could possiblyi give an adequate idea of; but in this I foundi myself nearly as much at a loss as if I had taken!my pen for the purpose of describing it, and Iwas obliged to satisfy myself with very littlemore than the outline and proportional dirnen-ir sions of this most magnificent fountain. Therewas, however, sufficient time allowed me to makei observations ; for, during the space of an hourI and a half, an uninterrupted column of waterwas continually spouted out to the elevation of150 feet, with but little variation, and in a bodyof 17 feet in its widest diameter ; and this wasthrown up with such force and rapidity, that thecolumn continued to nearly the very summit ascompact in body, and as regular in width and| shape, as when it first issued from the pipe ;a few feet only of the upper part breaking intospray, which was forced by a light wind on oneside, so as to fall upon the ground at the distanceof some paces from the aperture. The breeaealso at times, carried the immense volumes ofsteam that accompanied the eruption to one sideof the column of water, which was thus left opento full view, and we could clearly see its basepartly surrounded by foam, caused by thecolumns striking against a projecting piece efrock, near the mouth of the crater ; but thenceto the upper part, nothing broke the regularly6perpendicular lines of the sides of the waterspout, and the sun shining upon it rendered itin some points of view of a dazzling brightness.Standing with our backs to the sun, and lookinginto the mouth of the pipe, we enjoyed the sightof a most brilliant assemblage of all the coloursof the rainbow, caused by the decomposition ofthe solar rays passing through the shower otdrops that was falling between us and the crater.After the water had risen to the vast heightabove described, I ventured to stand in the midstof the thickest of the shower of spray ; where Iremained till my clothes were all wetted through,but still scarcely felt that the water was warmerthan my own temperature. Stones of the largestsize that I could lind, and great masses of thesilicious rock, which we threw into the crater,were instantly ejected by the force of the water,were shivered into small pieces, though so solidas not to he broken hut by very hard blowsfrom a large hammer, and were carried upfrequently higher than the summit of the spout.We were informed by the people living in theneighbourhood, that in the spring of 1808, aviolent shock of an earthquake was felt, whichmade an aperture for another hot spring, andcaused the whole of them to cease flowing forfifteen days.Dr. Henderson who visited the Geyser in1814 and 15, gives a very interesting accountof these wonderful displays of Almighty power.“ We had now a pleasant ride over themarshes to the hot springs, called the Geysers,7at which v.-e arrived about a quarter past four inif the afternoon. At the distance of several miles,ijon turning round the foot of a high mountain onjii our left, we could descry, from the clouds of| vapour that were rising and convolving in thei atmosphere, the spot where one of the mostmagnificent and unparalleled scenes in nature isdisplayed. We rede on before the cavalcade ;f and, just as we got clear of the south-east cor¬ner of the low hill, at the side of which thesprings are situated, we were saluted by an! eruption which lasted several minutes, and dwr-■j ing which the water appeared to be carried to a: great height in the air. Riding on between the| springs and the hill, we fell in with a'small9 green spot, where we left our horses, and pro-1 ceeded, as if by an irresistable impulse, to the1 gentle sloping ground, from the surface off which numerous columns of steam were makingl their escape.Though surrounded by a great multiplicity| of boiling springs, and streaming apertures, themagnitude and grandeur of which far exceededany thing we had ever seen before, we felt at noloss in determining on which of them to feastour wondering eyes, and bestow the primarymoments of astonished contemplation. Near thenorthern extremity of the tract rose a largecircular mound, formed by the depositions of thefountain, justly distinguished by the appellationof the Great Geyser, from the middle of whicha great degree of evaporation was visible. As¬cending the rampart, we had the spacious bason18at our feet more than half fiHed with the mostbeautiful hot chrystaline water, which was butjust moved by a gentle ebullition, occasioned bythe escape of steam from a cylindrical pipe orfunnel in the centre.Having stood some time in silent admirationof the magnificent spectacle which this match-leas fountain, even in a state cf inactivity, pre¬sents to the view, as there were no indications ofan immediate eruption, wre returned to the spotewhere we had left our horses ; and, as it formeda small eminence at the base of the hill, andcommanded a view of the whole tract, we fixedon it as the site of our tents. About thirty-eight minutes past five, we wrere apprized, bylow reports, and a s ight concussion of theground, that an eruption was about to take place;hut only a few small jets were thrown up, andthe water in the basin did not rise above the sur¬face of the outlets. At fifteen minutes pasteight we counted five or six reports, that shooktfee mound on which we stood, but no remarka¬ble jet followed : the water onlv boiled withgretti violence, and, by its heavings, caused anumber of small waves to How towards the mar¬gin of the basin, which, at the same time, re¬ceived an addition to its contents. Twenty-fiveminutes past nine, as I returned from thenuigUbowring hill, I heard reports which werebotb louder and more numerous than any of thepreceding, and exactly resembled the distant dis¬charge of a park of artillery. Concluding fromthese circumstances that the long expected9wonders were about to commence, I ran to themound, which shook violently under my feet,and I had scarcely time to look into the basin,when the fountain exploded, and instantly com¬pelled me to retire to a respectful distance on thewindward side. The water rushed up out ofthe pipe with amazing- velocity, and was pro¬jected by irregular jets into the atmosphere,surrounded by immense volumes of steam, which,in a great measure, hid the column from theview. The first four or five jets were incon¬siderable, not exceeding fifteen or twenty feet inheight; these were followed by one about fiftyfeet, which was succeeded by two or three con¬siderably lower ; after which came the last, ex¬ceeding all the rest in splendour, which rose atleast to the height of seventy feet. The largestones which we had previously thrown into thepipe were ejected to a great height, especiallyone, which was thrown much higher than thewater. On the propulsion ®f the jets, theylifted up the water in the bason nearest the ori¬fice of the pipe to the height of a foot, or a footand a half, and, on the falling of the column, itnot only caused the bason to overflow at theusual channels, but forced the water over thehighest part of the brim, behind which I wasstanding. The great body of the column (atleast ten feet in diameter,) rose perpendicularly,but was divided into a number of the most superbcurvated ramifications ; and several smallerspoutings were severed from it, and projectedin oblique directions, to the no small dangsr oftQtfhe spectator, who is apt to get scalded, ere lie*S aware, by .the tailing jet.The whole scene was indiscribably astonish¬ing ; bat what interested os most, was the cir-/;un)stance, that the strongest jet .came last, as ift>he fjreyser had summoned all lier potters in or-4er to shew tts tlie greatness ,of her energy, andmake a grand tinish before retiring into the sub¬terraneous .chambers in which she is concealedmortal view. Our curiosity had beengratified, but it was far from being satisfied.We now wished to have it in our power to in¬spect the mechanism of this mighty engine, andobtain a view of the springs by which it is putto motion $ hut the wish w.as vain j for they liem a tract wtnclt no fowl knoweth, and which thevulture’s eye hath wot seen;—which man withall his boasted powers, cannot, and dare not ap¬proach. Such scenes exhibit only the hidingof Jehovah’s power,” It is merely the surfaceof his works that is visible. Their internalstructure He hath involved in obscurity ; andafter the closest and most unwearied application,the utmost we can boast of is, that we haveheard a whisper of His proceedings, and inves¬tigated the extremities of His operation.On the morning of the 29th I was awakenedat twenty-three minutes past five o’clock, tocontemplate an eruption of the New Geyser,situated at the distance of an hundred and fortyyards to the south of the principal fountain. Itis scarcely possible, however, to give any ideaof the brilliancy and grandeur of the scene whichVIIJ caught my eye on drawing aside the curtain ofhi my tent. From an orifice, nine feet in diameter,« which lay directly before me, at the distance ofabout an Imndred yards, a column of water, ac¬companied with prodigious volumes of steam, was!i erupted with inconceivable force, and a tremen-i dously roaring noise, to varied heights, of from! fifty to eighty feet, and threatened to darken the! horizon, though brightly illnminated by the morn¬ing sun. During the first quarter of an hour,I tbimd it impossible to move from my knees,but poured out my soul in solemn adoration ofthe Almighty Author of nature:—“ who lopkethIon the earth and it trembleth ; who toucheth thehills and they smoke.” At length I repairedto the fountain, where we all met, and communi¬cated to each other our enraptured feelings ofwonder and admiration. The jets of water nowsubsided ; but their place was occupied by thespray and steam, which, having free room to play,rushed with a deafening roar, to a heiodit littleinterior to that of the water. On throwing1 thelargest stones we could find into the pipe, someof them that were cast up more perpendicularlythan the others, remained for the space of fouror five minutes within the influence of the steam,being successively ejected, and falling again in avery amusing manner. A gentle northernbreeze carried part of the spray at the top of thepillar to the one side, when it fell like a drizzlingrain, and was so cold that we could stand belowit, and receive it on our hand or face without theleast inconvenience. While I kept my station12ori the saute side with rite sun, a tnost brilliantcircular bow, of a large size, appeared on theopposite side of the foi-ntain ; and, on changings:des, having- the fountain between me and thesun, I discovered another, if possible still morebeautiful, but so small as only to encircle myhead. After continuing to roar about half anhour longer, the column of spray visibly diminish¬ed, and sunk gradually, till it fell to the same-state ia which we had observed it the precedingday ; the water, boiling at the depth of abouttwenty feet below the orifice of the shaft.During the night there had been two largeexplosions of the Great Geyser, bnt the servantwho observed them not awakening us, we ** eredeprived of the sight. However, the loss wasmade up by the comfortable sleep we enjoyed, ofwhich we had much need, having been fatiguedby the ride, and the walks we took after ourarrival the preceding day.At ten minutes before ten, we were attractedto the mound by several loud reports, whichwere succeeded by a partial eruption ; none ofthe jets exceeding five feet in height. Abouthalf ten the reports were reiterated, hut no jetsensued ; only a gentle rise was observable in thecontents of the 1 a<in. At. eleven we were againgratified with a most brilhant eruption, 'i hej^ts were ten or twelve in number, and the wa¬ter was carried to the height of at least sixtyfeet. Vast clouds of steam, which made theirescape during the eruption, continued to roll andspread as they ascended, till they filled the whole13! f the horizon around us ; and the sun, thoughijliiiiing in full splendour, was completely eclipsed;•lit the points of the jets, receiving his rays a*they rose through the vapour, wore the mostcharming IrsUe, being white and ^listening asmow. The instant all was over, Mr Hodgsonind I repaired to the foot of a small cataract,;it the not them base of the mound, over whichhe streamlet is precipitated in its way down tohe river, and had a pleasant bath in the warmvater as it fell upon us from the rock above.A small preliminary eruption again tookdace at seventeen minutes past one, and anotherour minutes before two. The baiin continuedfiling, till within three minutes of three, when,after a number of very loud reports, the waternurst, and the spouts rose with a noise and ve¬locity which I can compare to nothing moreuptly than to those of a quantity of large rocketsired off from the same source. This eruptionwas the longest of any we saw : a space ofliight minutes and ten seconds elapsing from theirst propulsion of the water from the basin, tillt again subsided into the pipe. 1 lie jets werejjldso much higher than in any of the former erup-4ions, yet none of them exceeded an hundred feet.1 he most enrapturing scene, however, thatvc beheld, was exhibited on the morning of thn)Oth. About ten minutes past live, we wereoused by the roaring of Strockr, which blew upfii great quantity of steam ; and when my watch|tood at a full quarter, a crash took place as if[he earth had burst, which was instantaneously14■succeeded by jets of water and spray, rising in aperpendicular column to the height of sixty feet.As the sun happened to be behind a cloud, we rhad no expectation of witnessing any thing moresublime than we had already seen ; but 8tr«ckr ihad not been in action above twenty minutes,,when the Greet Geyser, apparently jealous of herreputation, and indignant at our bestowing so rmuch of our time and applause on her rival, rbegan to thunder tremendously, and emitted such ;;quantities of water and steam, that we could notbe satisfied with a distant view, but hastened toithe mound with as much curiosity as if it ha,1 *been the first eruption we had beheld. How-jever, if she was more interesting in point of ;magnitude, she gave the less satisfaction in point t-of duration, having again become tranquil in thecourse of five minutes ; whereas, her less gaudy,but more steady companion, continued to playtill within four minutes of six o’clock.On my return this way from the north, aboutthe middle of August, 1815, 1 discovered a keyto Strockr, by the application of which, I coultmake that beautiful spring play when I had tmind, and throw its water to nearly double tb jheight observable in its natural eruptions. lh«morning after my arrival, I was awakened byits explosion about twenty minutes past fouio’clock ; and hastening to the crater, stootnearly half an hour contemplating its jet, ancthe steady and uninterrupted emission of the,column of spray which followed, and which vvatprojected at least an hundred feet into the ail15.Fut ttii-s, it grailualiy sunk into the pipe, as itid done the year before, and 1 did not expect' see another eruption till tlie following morn-g. However, about five o’clock in the after-oon, after a great quantity of the largest stonesoat could be found about the place had beenarown into the spring, I observed it begin tooar with more violence than usual; and, ap-roaching the brink of the crater, 1 had scarcelyane to look down to the surface of the water,I hich was greatly agitated, when the eruptionrjnnmenced, and the boiling water rushed up in: moment, within an'inch or twro of my face, andrmtinued its course with inconsiderable velocityit to the atmosphere. Having made a speedyretreat, I now* took my station on the windward|de, and was astonished to observe the eleva-lon of the jets, some of them rising higherman two hundred feet; many of the fragmentsK'ere thrown much higher, and some of considera¬ble size were raised to an invisible height. Forjpme time, every succeeding jet seemed to sur¬pass the preceding, till, the quantity of water insue subterraneous caverns being spent, they gaveulace to the column of steam, which continued(> rush up with a deafening roar for nearlyn hour.The periodical evacuation of Strockr, havingecu deranged by this violent experiment, noymptons whatever of a fresh eruption appearedIie following morning. As I washed, however,> see it play once more before I bid an ever-tsting farewell to these wonders of nature, and,16.especially, beinof anxious to ascertain the realityof my supposed discovery, I got my servant tcassist me, about eight o’clock, in casting all thei.loose stones w« could find into the spring. Wliad not ceased tive minutes, when the wished-foiphenomena recommenced, and the jets weremrried to a height little inferior to what they hadgained the preceding evening. At half-past nine,I was obliged to sot out on my journey; but•ften looked back on the thundering column oilsteam, and reflected with amazement at myhaving given such an impulse to a body whichno power on earth could controul.The Falls of Niagara.“ I had already seen some of the most celebrated works of nature in difterent parts of the globe;I had seen Etna and Vesuvius ; I had seen theAndes almost at their greatest elevation; CapeHorn, rugged and bleak, hutfetted by the,southern tempest; and, though last not least, Ihave seen the long swell of the Pacific ; but-no¬thing I had ever beheld or imagined, couldcompare in grandeur with the Falls of Niagara.My first sensation was that of exquisite delightat having before me the greatest wonder of the jworld. Strange as it may appear, this feelingwas immediately succeeded by an irresistablemelancholy. Had this not continued, k might17[Whaps have been attribtited to the satiety inei-Bnt to the complete gratification of ‘ hope longdeferred but so far from diminishing, the more|| gazed, the stronger and deeper the sentimentj'tjecame. Yet this scene of sadness was strange-i j mingled with a kind of intoxicating faseina-ion. Whether the phenomenon is peculiar toNiagara, I know not, but certain it is, that thefSpirits are affected and depressed in a singularl/iianner by the mag'c influence of this stupen¬dous and eternal fall. About five miles abovele cataract the river expands to the dimensionsf a lake, after which it gradually narrows.*The Rapids commence at the upper extremityf Goat Island, which is half a mile in length,md divides the river at the point of precipita¬tion into two unequal parts ; the largest is dis-nguished by the several names of the Ilorse-nhoe, Crescent, and British Fall, from its semi-yircular form and contiguity to the Canadiannhore. The smaller is named the American[I'all. A portion of this fall is divided by aoock from Goat Island, and though here insig-ilificant in appearance would rank high amongtrluropean cziscades.‘ Thei current runs about six miles an hour;ut supposing it to be only five miles, thequau-ity which passes the f’al|s in an hour is more than5,OCX),OOO of tons avoirdupois ; if we supposet to be six, it will he more than 102.000,OCX):id in a day would exceed 2,400,0(X)/)00 ofons.18“ The next morning', with renewed delight, ,I beheld from my window—I may say, indeed,from my bed—the stupendous vision. Thebeams of the rising sun shed over it a variety yof tints ; a cloud of spray was ascending from l»the crescent; and as I viewed it from above itappeared like the steam rising from the boilerof some monstrous engine.“ This evening I went down with one of your party to view the cataract by moonlight, iI took my favourite seat on the projecting rock, ji,at a little distance from the brink of the fall, ,and gazed till eveiy sense seemed absorbed in Icontemplation,—Although the shades of night ,increased the sublimity of the prospect, and i„‘ deepened the murmur of the falling floods,’ the bmoon in placid beauty shed her soft influence .upon the mind, and mitigated the horrors of the ,scene. The thunders which bellowed from the >abyss, and the loveliness of the falling element, j,which glittered like molten silver in the moon¬light, seemed to complete, in absolute perfection, .the rare union of the beautiful with the sublime.While reflecting upon the inadequacy of lan- fguage to express the feelings I experienced, or ■to describe the wonders which I surveyed, ani(American gentleman, to my great amusement,,tapped me on the shoulder, and ‘ guessed’ thatit was ■ pretty droll !’ It was difficult to avoidllaughing in his face ; yet I could not help en- {vying him his vocabulary, which had so elo-(quently released me from my dilemma.“ Though earnestly dissuaded from the under- L19jling-, I ha l determined to employ the firste morning in visiting the cavern beneaih the1. The guide recommended my companiond myself to set out as early as six o’clock,tit we might have the advantage of the morn-r sun upon the waters. We came to thetides house at the appointed hour, and disen-imbered ourselves of such garments as we did1 >t care to have wetted : descending the circu-r ladder, we followed the course of the pathJnning along the top of the rubbish of theecipice, which I have already described,aving pursued this track for about eightiirds, in the course of which we were com¬pletely drenched, we found ourselves close tose cataract. Although enveloped in a cloudI’ spray, we could distinguish without difficultylie direction of our path, and the nature of theivern we were about to enter. Our guideEarned us of the difficulty of respiration whichre should encounter from the spray, and re-(bmmended us to look with exclusive attentioni) the security of our footing. Thus warned we■sushed forward, blown about and buffeted byJie wind, stunned by the noise, and blinded byhe spray. Each successive gust penetrated us3 the very bone with cold. Determined toroceed, we toiled and struggled on, and havingdlovred the footsteps of the guide as far as wassossible, consistently with safety, we sat down,md having collected our senses by degrees, thevenders of the cavern slowly developed them-elvcs. It is impossible to describe the strange♦0■^natural light reflected through its crystal wall,the roar of the waters, and the blasts of theharried hurricane which perpetually rages inits recesses. We endured its fury a sufficienttime to form a notion of the shape and dimen¬sions of this dreadful place. The cavern wastolerably light, though the sun was unfortunate¬ly enveloped in clouds. His disc was invisible,but we could clearly distinguish his situationthrough the watery barrier. The fall of thecataract is nearly perpendicular. The bankover which it is precipitated is of a concaveform, owing to its upper stratum being com¬posed of lime-stone, and its base of soft slate-stone, which has been eaten away by the con¬stant attrition of the recoiling \taters. Thecavern is about 120 feet in height, 50 in1breadth, and 300 in length. The entrance was Icompletely invisible. By screaming in our ears, ithe guide contrived to explain to us that ther«was one more point which we might hav« ireached had the wind been in any other direc-1tion. Unluckily it blew full upon the sheet ol jthe cataract, and drove it in so as to dash upor; <the rock over which we must have passed. 3A few yards beyond this, the precipice becomesperpendicular, and, blending with the water,forms the extremity of the cave. After a stajof nearly ten minutes in this most horrible purgatory, we gladly left it to its loathsome inhabitants, the eel anil the water-snake, who crawabout its recesses in considerable numbers.i21Late Ascent to Mount Blanc.Extract of a letter from an English artistnlbow on the Continent The 25th of July noxr(finds us in the celebrated vale of Chamouny,with the Glaciers and Mont Blanc in view.I This hitter object, far seen and far famed, givesan interest to whatever relates to it. On ouriArrival at the inn at Chamouny, we were told; that two Englishmen had started yesterdayi morning, at nine o’clock, to make the perilousitourney to the top of the mountain, w th nin«iJguides, making in all eleven, and it ha 1 at firstifjeen observed through a telescope in the inn thatitwo had actually reached the summit. All eyasivere now on the alert. The glass I got holdif at an upper window ; and, after adjusting andJjs’ ifting it about, observed with mute attention.Ion the side of the summit, some small blackjobjects, that by degrees changed their places,land by a progress very slow but perceptible, ap¬peared advancing upwards. To all the peoplefin the house this was a subject of intensecuriosity, and, by turns, each saw aid borewitness to the phenomenon. I counted to thenumber of nine; a party of four were in advanefeijin a group, with cue a-head, while others, twoand two, lagged considerably behind, As theywere proceeding : m us, their movement' wasslow and little perceived ^ onwards, however,we saw them reach the summit, where, little asthey seemed, they were nearly lost in the deepI blue sky. Even the last two, lingering, stop¬ping, and resting, approached at last the top,tvfiere we could see the others re-appear, (is ito receive them. The whole number havin',thus gained the top of Mont Blanc, the highesjpyffrfr kv Europe, perhaps the highest point on i:earth, tfe iusigniiieant power of man has ever Ienabled hirrv to reach (which, though often att Ftempted, has, it is said, not been: reached before"above six times—often- attended with loss o [lives, and only succeeded hr once before by anEnglishman). A short half hour seemed t<satisfy them with their unwonted elevation. *"when we saw them begin to descend.2t')th.—To day all was expectation ; and ainine o’clock, after 40 hours’ absence, the tweEnglishmen, with their nine guides, and a boywho had gone with them, arived.They had, on the 24th, reached the astia.resting-place. La Grande Mullee. This is < ;black rido-e of rocks at the head of the Glaciers, n<D ,by the side of which: they ascended, and whichthey had much fatigue and risk in crossing toobtain. At the Grande Mullee, they stoppedfor the night, under a tent, which they tookwith them, in which, with blankets, &c., they"were warm and comfortable, disturbed only bythe noise of avalanches falling all around them.On the 25th, at day-break, they proceeded up aivalley of snow, then took a new route, by'whiclxthey had escaped the dangers which had!destroyed those men who had made a similarattempt before. As they got towards the toptheir fatigue and weakness became extreme;their pulses beat high, some were seized withhead-ache, spitting of blood and bleeding at thenose—others with loss of appetite, and one eveWwith vomiting ; all breathed with difficulty andrequired frequent rests. Mr Hawes who is astout little fellow, of SO years, was the only onenearly exempted from the symptoms. On the[nop the air was cold beyond belief; but the viewtseemed; to comprehend every thing—they ap¬peared high above every object; saw on oneside of the lake Geneva, Neufchatd, and the. Jura mountains ^ but the clearest and mostbeautiful svas on the side of Savoy and Italy ;i the Appenines, the Mediterranean, and France,: known to be in sight from Mount Blanc, wereunot then visible.At three o’clock they began to descend-—a: matter of facility, compared with the ascent.At six they gained their resting-place on theGrande Mullee. They here remained for thenight, which was wet and cold ;• and the noiseof the avalanches, always most frequent in rain,had much the effect of continued thunder.. Thismorning they had again to cross the glaciers, tofaciiiate which they were tied, two or three to¬gether, in a chain of ropes, to secure them incrossing the deep crevices between the ice -Tand the danger being thus past, they reachedChamouny to breakfast, having finished thejourney without loss, without hurt, and apparent¬ly without over-fatigue ; but which, they said,they would never advise any one again to at¬tempt. Every circumstance was favourable,but they thought neither the view nor the famecould at all compensate for the danger'and pain«f the undertaking..24General State of London and itsSuburbs, During the Plague.London might well be said to be all in tearsthe mourners did not go about the streets indeed Ifor nobody put on black, or made a formal dresjof mourning for their nearest friends ; but thvoice of mourning was t'-uly heard in the street;the shrieks of women and children at the wiidows, and doors of their houses, where theidearest relations W'ere, perhaps dying, or jusdead, were so frequent to be heard, as we passethe streets, that it was enough to pierce thstoutest heart in the world, to hear them. Tearand lamentations were seen almost in everyhouseespecially in the first part of the visitation ; foitowards the latter end, men’s hearts were liardened, and death was so always before their eyesthat they did not so much concern themselve:for the loss of their friends, expecting thathemselves should be summoned the next hour“ Such mournings and lamentations were frejquently heard in the streets, as pierced the stouteshearts to hear them, and the houses were filletwith tears and lamentations. Nothing waheard in the day, but the dismal cry, “ Pray fo;us,” and in the night the horrid call, “ Bring ouiyour dead,” and scarce any thing vendible exceptcoffins. Sometimes persons dropped down deatin the streets ; many died without any warningnot knowing they had the plague; and otherhad only time to go to the next porch or door, sdown, and die,the passengers.unnoticed and disregarded bi