THEADVENTURESOFCAP. GULLIVER.Is A VOYAGE TOL I L L I P U T.STIRLING:Printed and Sold by C. RandaJLADVEN TURESOFCAPt. LEMUEL GULLIVER.CHAP. i.M'R Lemuel Gulliver, was the th:fon of a gentleman in NottinghaiHire: at the age of ,4 he was feet tEmanuel College Cambridge, where \ftuclied very ciefe'y for three years; bi'the charge of n ain‘ainin£ him being tc1great for his father's narrow fortune, fwas bound apprentice to Mr Bates,Surgeon in London Wnat little monehe got, he laid out in learning navigatioijj.;rand other parts of mathematic?, as he at!ways fancied he fhould be a great travejler: When his time was expired, he le|tMr. Bates, and ftudied phyiic two year* 1Lejici},, in Hollaed.Soon after his return from Leyden htfjjpouf d Mifs Polly Burton, daughter of aBficr in Newgate-ftreet, with whom he re-tived a portion of 400I1 After pra£tifing about 3 years in Wap-,ng, with but little fuccefs, he accepted of1 advantageous offer from Captain Prit-1 ard, of the Antelope, who was makingtkoyage to the South SeaI They failed from Brlftol on the 4th ofi'ay, 16^9. Their voyage was ht firilprolperous; till leaving thele lea*fteering their courfe towards theift Indies they were driven by a ftormthe northward of Van Diemens land,elve of the crew were dead by hardour and b*d food, and the reft Were in. ifery weak condition.lOn the 5 th of November, (the begin-pg of jummer in thofe parts) the weath-Jt being hazy, they efpied a rock within..iable's length of the fhip, and the windalng ftrong, ihey immediately tplit uponMr. Gulliver "and five of the crewmved cut the boat and made a fhift toJ clear of the fbip and the rock Theywed till they could work no longer •l then, trailing to the mercy of the4waves, in sbout half an the boat was overf®by a Ibdden iquall from the ncrth. Whabecame of vthe other feamen, Mr Gulliverknew not ; but he iwam with wind and tidai d often let his legs drop, in hopes of feel-ffing the bottom ; at lafV when he was almoll*.ready to expire, he found himftlf within h’udepth, and the ftorm being greatly abatedhe walked above a mile before he reacheiithe fl^ore He then advanced near half*mile up the country, but could ret dilcovcieither htufes or inhabitants He lay dowton thegrah. which wis very foft, a.;d flep*about nine hours He awaked juft at daybri'-ik and upon attempting to rife hefounlhe could rot f*ir, for as he lay on his back 1he found'his arms and legs fiilened to th •ground, and his hur which was long ant ;J’thick, tied in the fame manner. In : 'little time, he felt lorpething alive, movin;on his left leg, which advanced almcft uto his chin : when bending his eyes downwards be perceived it to be a human creatrue- about fix inches high, with a boyand arrow in his hand, and a quiver -Shis back he then felt at leaf? forty mot;tallowing the fiifl:: and being greatly a'loni*llied, he roared fa loud that they all ran back(n a fright : and Tome of them broke the rmbs, by leaping from Ms fide to the gfoand,}Soon after, one of them cried alotid, Tol-oPhona:; when hiftantly Mr* Gulliver prr-eived feme hundreds of arro vs difchargedSpon his hands and face which pricked hi-uke fo many needles, and gave him fo much,ain, that he drove again to get loofe SomeJf them attempted to ftab him in the ddeith their fpears, but they could not pierceiiis buff waiftcoat. When the people obter-•ed that he lay quiet, they difeharged nolore arrows. He (aw them bu y ertfting afage, at a little diftance, about a foot and alalf high, which they had no fooner finilhedlian four of them alcended it by a ladder,nc of thfcm who feemed to be a perfon sfuality, was taller than thofe who attendedim : one of whom held up his train, andas about four inches high. He criedut three times, Langro Dehul San ; onhich they cut the firings that bound theeft fide of his head The little monarchmade an oration, not one word of which* 1Wr= GuTiver cculd underftand, he obfenr-|fd however many ogns of threatnings ;and others of promifes, pity, and hindnefs: •and he anfwered by motions of fubmifficn [and f/iendfhip Being almoft famifhed ;xvith Hunger, he put his finger frequently|to his mouth, to signify to them that hewanted food ‘ The Hurgo (for fo theyCalled a great Lord*, underftood him very. 'well; lie dctcended from the ftage, and; •ordered fcveral ladders to be placed iagainft Mr, Guliiver’s fides, by whichabove a hundred of the people mounted,and walked towards his mouth, ladenwith baskets of meat; there were fhouldeps,legs, and loins lhaped like thofe of mut¬ton, but fmaller than the wings.of a lark-He eat two or three of them at a mouth¬ful and took three of the loaves ^whichwere as big as a mufket bullet' at a •;time The inhabitants were aftonilhedat his bulk and appetite : and on his mak¬ing a flgn for drink, they flung up ore of 1their large ft hpg/heads, rolled it towards hishand, and beat out the top. tic drank it 'off at a draught, for it did • net hold halfa pint, and tafied like Burgundy Theyafterwards brought fecond hpgihcad,,t• •lick he alfo diTpatchedi and calling Foror*, found they had no more to giv.* hi m,i 'hen they had done thefe wonders, theyi on ed for joy ; and after warning the peo-■ eon the ground the Sang denred he wouldvrow the empty barrels as Far as^ he could ;■ltd when they faw the velTvls in the air,iere was an univerfai Ihout ot Hek\na Dc**ki1! Mr. GutUVER could not help wonder-at the intrepidity of thefe diminutiveteortals. who ventured to walk and mountjjjpon his bodv, while one of his hands wa>liberty, without tremb ing at the veryIght of fo prodigious a cr-iature a; he multjlppear to them Af:.-r fome time an am-:> aflador frotn the King appeared . beforeMini, who producing credential? under thevoyal feal, (poke .about ten minutes withoutj'jnv fign of anger, and yet with greatiefolution; pointing often towards theMetiopolis, which was diftant aboutfualf a mils, whether it was his Mijefty’s!ible:ifure' that he fhould be conveyed —trar. Gulliver made iigns- that he fhould beiJrlad to be reieafed ; and the ambiffidormnderftood very well what he meant, for'.he fhook his head by way ■of iafajjrop**8-. «ft ( ‘ f ; •• I, r* w f. A -»f. .. * . V- • , ■ . ,,f * .and figr ;ii«d that hr muft he carried as fka pritoner ; he then fore gave tokens that ■they might do what they wo?jld with him pwhc rei;pon the Ilurgo and his train withdrewwith cheerful countenances. Soon after thepeople (homed out, Peplom Sdau, and he ,felt the cords fo relaxed, that he w's able to i;turn upon his right tide, they then rubbed hishands at d {ace with an ointment whidvtook ;;off the {mart ot their arrows ; and this cir*cumtrance, added to the plentiful meal he ithad made caufed him to fall alkep. The itnatives of Lilii ut are excellent mathematici¬ans, tmd mechanics: and the King unmedi- (iately let fife hundred carpenters to work to tprep/are in engine by which, he might be Con- •veyed to the capital. It was a wooden fiacnethree inches high, feven feet long, and fourbtoad, and moved upon twenty two wheels.' , ; 1 . .->1It was brought to Mr .Gulliver’s fide as helay To rrife io inimenfe a creature uponthis vehicle, eigh ty poi .-s. each of a foot highwere ereded , and very fixong ropes of thebignels of packthread were fattened byhooks to many bandages, which the work-men had gi*t rouud hi? neck, hands, body,and leg?. Kins Jyjndr^d ot the Itrongeitmet >vei*<s t iuployid to draw tip thele cordfiby paH-cs Idtened on the t-»• t, and in ahouis he wat. S'alfrd, flua^; into the e.-./?ineand tied down. \ll this Mr Gu’»i.».v*r waitold afterw?r.!?,, for,while th« who!a opera¬tion was peripyednig, he jay fah alUfp: bythe force of a medicine trut had- been pur«potVlv infuled in the win, he oad drunk Kif-teen hundred ftroag herf:s, about four inchesand a half high, were yoked to the machineand had much ado to drag it a’ong i’heymade a long march this uay, and then Mr.Gullive^ wss guatdrd in th'i nignt, by fiv«thou land men, on each fide ore half of them,with torches, and the other half of themwith bows and arro** ready to Ihoot hii.n ifhe offered -to ftir. Early the next morning,they continued their march, and at noonarrived withiutwo hundred yards of the citygate.The carriage flopped near an old tem-p'e. the largtii in the kingacm, but whichon account of a murder having been com -mined Aercun, was never frequented, Inthis edifice it was agreed Mr, Gulliverloflhould lodge. The gate was four feet high. |ard two feet wide and on each fide was |four windows To this temple he was |fattened by ninety-one chains, which werefixed to hh -leg by thirty fix padlocks.—Juftoppofite Hood a famous turret, five feet highto the top of which, the Emperor and manylords afeended, for the fake of feeing fo 'large a monitor ; vaft nymbers cf peoplecame alfo' upon the lame errand } and whepthe workttien found that they had thorough¬ly fecured him, they cut ail the firings withwhich he was bound ; and fipon his rifiogupon his legs, they /hewed the greateftmarks of wonder sitoniihment.' ' : * *3 , .... -e h a p. ii.GULLIVER was no fboner ^>n hislegs, than he was pjeafed at beholc ingthe pfolpecl of the country, large fields offorty feet iquare, w’oods, at leaft fixty feetlong: • and tail trees, almoft feven feet high ;« and the city eh the left hand, which lookedl^ke the view of London in a raivc-lhtw.4The Emperor having defcended from thetower, came forward with the Q[ueen and: many kdies, to eximme Mr, Guiiivcr more: minutely. Ho had ordered his cooks andf builers to prepare ten^waggon loads of mtat>4and ten of wine, and he and his attendantsfat at fome dii'tmee to fee him dine. Withregard to the Emperor’s peri on- he is tallerby a quarter of an inch, than ary of his lub-jefts which is enough to ftrike them allwith awe His dreis was plain and Ample, *but he wore a golden helmet on his head, a-domed with jewel, and a plume of feathers.He fuffered Gulliver to take him up into thepalm of his hand, «fter having drawn hisword to defend himlclf if he mould not beufed kindly The Emperor fpoke often toMr. Gulliver, and Mr Gulliver as ofeen an-I fwered bim, but all to no purpofe, for theycould not underhand one another When theCourt withdrew he was left with a itrongguard, to prevent the impertinence of theraoble, many of whom; fuppoling he woulddevour all the victuals in the country, hadthe audacity to {hoot their arrows at hi^ jbut the Col. ordered them to be feized anddelivered Into bis bands. thf*y were immedl-atelv bouna and pufhed towards him 5 heplaced tnem upon his right hand and madea bgn as if he would eut them, tip alive they jwere gi'K-tlf affiighttn ..id laualied tcftifciywhen they fav him take o*jt %hi kr-i/'e. * butafterwards locking mildly and <u^!h^l]Jl5firings whh which they .wj^ bouiul^he pla¬ced them gently nn tbaJ ground, and awaythey ran as hdl as th*? were able This markof clemency was reprifented muck to hi* ad-vantage at Co* rtFor a fortnight be lay upon the nakedpavement of h'8 houfu, which was fihootttftor j} during which time fix hundred beds,were brought in larriagt*, and worked upwithin the building i one hundred and fiftywere fewa together in breadth and I'ngth ?snd thefe were four double, which, howeverwa* bardy Aifiicient to relirve him hem thehardnds of the floor j and in the fame man¬ner alfp, he was provided with fljeets, blan¬kets and Cimrlids,The Emperor, however, had frequentcouncils core ornirg him 1 who dtfired thatcertain efliem might icatch him, for pro¬bably he might have weapons about Hmij%*3I whicb might be dangerous to the flateTo thie Mr Gulliver confented ; he tookthe t.wo olBcers in bis hand| anti put themilrft hit© ©nr pocket and then i«c© another,* TJaefa gentlemtn fet down in writing everything they found *, and after putting themfafely on the groundj they predated the inventory to'the Emperor, which was as foi,I lows,I; ‘ ‘ ■ '2-1 rIn the right hand coat pothet, we founda large piece ot coarfe doth large enoughfor a ftaQfod&th to the chamber of Hate.—In the ieit pocket a diver cbeft, with 4 coverof th’ feme metal, we dutred to fee it open*cd , and oa our, fteppmg into it found our*Hives mid-leg deco i.i 2 iort of dull, which*’.at!e u» fneeze wonderfully In the rightwail!coat ppckrt we found a number of, wfcue thui iuwft,uice« folded aoout the b>g«nefs of thiee men, vtrd with a cable and marlked with black figures. In the left an m-ginCi trom the oecx of which were r.x'cndeda row of long poles refembling palifadoet —‘n the right hand breeches pockrt, wc law ahollow pdlar of iron., about the length ©faman. mimed to a ftror g piece of timber lar»ger than the pillar* on one fic.e of which v<er«14pieces of ftrong iron ftickiag out; and in theleft pocket another engine of the fame kind.In a imaller pocket of the right hand feveralpieces cf white and red metal, of differentlizes 5 fome of the white ont-s were fa heavythat we could hardly lift them. la the leftpocket were two flrange engines, gith one cfwhich he told us he fhaved himfelf and thatwith the other he cut his vrftaals. Therewere two other fmalkr pockets from one ofwhich he took a large globe, holf filver, andhalf of foir.e rrarfparent metal ; this he putdofe to our ears and we were 1’urprized witha noife as loud as the fall of a water-mill %this engine, he called his oracle, and laid, itpointed out the time of every attion of hislife i we therefore prefume it is the god thathe werihips From the left pocket, he tookput a net, large enough for a/lilhennan ; inthis were feveral pieces of yellow metal,■which if thtfy be real goldt are of morevalue thou all the wealth in your MajelVy’s■coffers.Round his waift was a belt made ofthe ikin ct fome unknown animal, fromwhich hung a fword the length of nine*5men; ' pn his risjht iiie was a bag* con¬taining two cells, in one ot which werefeveral balls as big as a man’s head andwhich we were fcarce able to lift ; the otherwas filled with black grains, about fifty ofwhich we could hold iu the palms of ourhands.When this inventory was read over ; theKing defired Mr. Gulliver to give up the fe¬veral particulars ; he therefore firft took outbis icyxneter out of the fcabbard and wavingit backwtrd ana forward, the refledhcn ,ofth fuu greatly dazzled the eyes ot the be»holders. i he next thing he demanded, wasone or the hollow Iron piinrs ; tvlr Guiiivertook it out of his pocket, ; nd charging itwith powder only he let it oft' in the air i oawhich hundreds of Lhliputians fell to theground as "if they had been 'lead, and eventhe E npcrer was greatly confounded- Hispillois were then delivered up, together withthe pouch of powder and bullets, afterbegging that the former might he keptfrom the fire, for fear his Imperial Ma-yeily's palace might be bloifp in the air.fhe Emperor being defirous of leeinghis watch, two of the yeomen of thel6guards ir accrofs a pole, as the dray-ir>en do a barrel of tker in Eftglani, and hsand the teartcted -rm were atn^’ed H theitoilt'it ntade, and at the motion of the miti*ute hard Hi* muney, eohtix kn\fc, vazot,toe were then given up Pfie feyniiier,juftol^, and pouch, were conveyed ty broad*wheti waggon* to the iing'a fiorei, but theteil were reftoredC H A P litMIt GHlliver’i gentle behaviour* gala-cd the good opinion of the E:Tiperor4the army; and the people in general info*mnch that he wp* fet at full )ib?rty. 'I'ftejrbecame leh apprehenrive of danger from him,and at laft, the boys and girls would dancecountry dsoefs or. the palm cf hia hand, ashe lay on the ground, or play at hi -e andfeck ia his hair.The Emperor one day Hal a mind tr en¬tertain lira with feveral (hews, with none ofwhich htfwas fb much diverted as that of therope-dancers, who performed upon a flardsrwhite thread, atout two feet dong and railed!about twelve inches from the ground. This. diverfion is on'y pra&ifed by the rtohilijy 'andm»n of liberal education, who are candidatesfor the high employments of the date —When any great oflice becomes vacant, five*or fix oi thefe candidates •pcttition the Kingto entertain his Majefty, with a dance on thetope, and whoever jumps higheft is to fucyceedThrfe diverfions however, are often atten¬ded with fatal accidents; Mr. Gulliver him-felf faw two or three people break theirlimbs ; and when the Minifters themfelvesare commanded to perform, they frequentlyfirain fo far, that there is hardly any of themwho have not received a fall, and fome ofthem two or three•There is another diverfion, which is pe-cnlhr to the Lil iputians ; it is as follows :The Emperor lays on a table three hlkenthreads, one blue, the other red, and thethird gieen l'he£c threads are intended,for fjch noblemen as are to be diftinguilhedby a particular favor. The Empefror holdsftick in his hand and the ccandidates leap o-ver or erse^ under it, backwards and for-18wa'rd« ; ard whoever holds ont longeft inleap-Rs; and creeping is honored \vrh theblue fiifc •, the red is given to the next, andthe green to the third.CHAP- IV.f | ’HE wa l of the citv of Milendo is twofeet and a half high, and feven inchesbroad, fo that a coach may be driven uponthe top of it, and there are ftrong towers atthe cliftance of every ten feet Mr Gullivereauly trode over the wall and went carefullythrough the princioal ftretts in his waiOcoatonly, for fear the fkirts of his coat might da¬mage the roofs and eaves of the honfesThe garret windows, ard tops of homes,were <o crtMided with fpettators thar Mr.Guldver imagined the city miift containat leaf! five hundred thou!and fouls Someof the houfes were five ftories high, Pfemarket* well provided, and the fhops veryrich The c-ty is an exett fquare offive hundred teet ; two great flreers, whichdivide it fnto quarters, are five feet wide ;♦T<? .Ac lanes aud allies arc from twelve to eight¬een inches The Knperor’s palace, whichis in the centre, is inrlofed by a wall twofeet high; the outward court is a vaft fquareof forty feet s and here ftand the Royal A-partments. 'Ph^fe Mr# Gulliver, by lying|i down upon his fide and applying hi< face tothe windows, had the pleafure of viewing,and he found the n more fplendi.l than couldbe imagined. He law the Emprels and theyoung Princefs in their leveral lodgings, andi her Majcfty was pleafed to put her hand outat the window for him to kifs.About a fortnight after Mr. Gulliver ob-I tained his liberty, he was vifited by Reldref'": al; the principal fecretary. Reldrefal com¬plimented him upon his liberty, and enteredl into apolitical converfation with great confi¬dence " He informed Mr. Galliver that theLilliputians were threatened with an invafionfrom ihe ifland of lilefufca with whom they, had waged war lor fix and thirty moons.Mr. Gulliver then defired the Secretary toinform the Emperor that he was ready withthe hazard of his life, to def*nd hisperfun &ftate againft ;ajl invaders.aoC H A P. V.•■■ TV^rP- Gulliver ccmun'cated to the Eoi-peror a projeft he had formed, offeizing the enemy’s whole fleet while it layat anchor in the harbour, and ready to failwith the firft fair wind. The depth of thechannel that divided the two iflands of Lilli-put and Blefufcu, was in the middle, aboutfeet; and after being provided with aproper quantity of cables, as tbick ai pack¬thread, and bars of iron, as thick as'koittin?*medics which he bent in the form of a hookMr. Gulliver in his leather jacket only wa¬ded about thirty yards into the fea when be.irg out of his depth he fwam till he felt thebottom on the oppofltc there The enemywere fo frightened, that they all left theirand made towards the fhore Mr Gulliverthen took out his tackle, fattened a hook atthe prow of each thip, and than tying all thecords together, began to puil, but not a fliipwould flir, for they had all good anchor^e. He therefore took out bi* knife andtfcdutely cut all their cables: in execu*21ting tltis, however, he received a prodigioihrum'ier of wounds in his hands and face,face, £ oin thf* arrows of the enemy Hi thentook up the errds to which the books weretied, and with great ea<e drew fifty of theenemy’s men of war after him.The Emperor with his attendants, floodon the coaft, expetting the ifiue of his ad¬venture They iaw the {hips move, but .could not dlfcern Mr Gulliver, who was^upto his chin in water fhev concluded himto be Crowned, and that the enemy’s fleetwere approaching in a koftiie manner* How¬ever, as the fea became fhallower and fhal*lower every ftep, he was icon within hearingIan 1 then holding up the end of the cable bywhich the fleet were fattened together, hecried aloud, “ Long live the molt phifTantEmperor of Lilliput ” He was received at his ■landing, with great ancomiums, and createda Nardic, whuh is the higheft title ofhonor,His Majefty defired that Mr. Gulliverwould take fome ~ future opportunity ofbringing’ all the reft of th. enemy’s ihipsinto his ports; and his ambition was fot great, that he leemcd to think of nothingi* *2 *biit ^reducinp; Blefv^cu to a province —Mr.. GuUivfr however boJdi'v orotefted, tb<st he%v u’d never be an miTriiuvf of of bringing abrave and free people into' flaveryThis open dedaration. however, was atfirft produftive of diflike in the Emperor, Scafterwards of hatred From this tyne an in-betereen his Majefty and his'minifters,thOt had like to have ended in poor Gulliversdeftruftion.SoOn after the feizure of the ^lefufcuan fleetambalTadorj were lent Irom that nation withhombl off. ts of peace —After the may wasratified, their Excellencies paid a vifit to MrGulhver •, thev comtlimentcd him upon hisvalor and generefity and in the name oftheir Emperor invited him to pay. a V'iit totheir kingdom, Accordingly, the next timebe faw the Emperor, he defired leave to waitoh the Blefirfcuan monarch, which he gran¬ted indeed, but in r. very cold manner ■, for* the Flimnap and Boigolam had reprefentedhis ir.tcrccurfe with the ambafladors as amark o£. dtfaffeftionIt was not long however, before he hadaa opportunity of doing, as he thought,fo fignal a service as would have put a fideall dufpicioHs of his fidelity He was alar-I med at midnight with horrid cries t and fe-veral of the courtiers intreated him to repairimmediately, to fh* palace, for her Majefty'sapartments were on fire, by the carleffuefs ofa maid of hor.or» who fell afleep white (hei was reading a romance Mr GuiUver gotup and made the beft of his way to the me-1 tropolis he might eafily have ft fled tii; lirewith the flap of his coat but that in his hadehe ha» unfortunatA’lv left behind him'—Thecafe was truly derdotable, Mr Gulliver had,however, drunk plentifully of wine, and^htKby his coming very near the flames, and by. _ h;s labouring to quench them, began to o-perate and was voided in fuch a quantity,and was fo-properly applied, that in threeminutes the fire was totally extinguifliediBy the laws of the realm however, it was acapital offence for any perfon to make water| within the predintt of the palace, and Mr.I Guiliver was ir-fornatd,* that the Emperorwoulc rather that the pa ace had been burnttothegreund, than he fh dd made ufe of.24perfuided to live in her apartments andvowed vengeance againft: our hero. .«Mr. Gulliver’* fuit of fervants was verynumerous He had three hundred cooks todrels his victuals. A fhou der of mutton wasone mouthful, and a barrel o£ liquor onereafonable draught. Once indeed, he had afurloin of beef fo immenfely large, 'that hemade three bites of it The geele and tur-kies were a Icanty mouthful and of theirfmaller fowls, he frequently took up twentyor thirty at a time upon the end of hisknife.At laftj however, he refolved to leave theifland, and return to England; which hedid, andarrived in the Downs on the 13thof April.I N I S.