JL’ H KCONTENTED WIFE,WITH T II E ,HUSBAND’S ANSWER.TO WHICH ARE /.PEED.,GENTLEMEN RAKES of the TownjThe Country LafA-: Ecve for he: Sweetheart.T II E H A P P Y M A R R I A G E.O H.!: D £ A R ! I;’ iVE,S.O P L E AS’D.THE SOLDI EJL ’S R E T U R N*’T H E P AT R I O T FAIR. .OLA f, G O W,l fluted Y'j J. 2nd M Robsrtfon, 5,302.'3>HE CONTENTED WIFE.XHav^ Keen a wife tais dczen of long y^^is,And Mifs^^be the time I did /tfarry,I nei'cr £e!I out with ray love in rny life.If he at the ale-houfe did tarry ;J light up *w csndk and go to my bed,He comes when he pleafes, no more is faid,He fleeps till hc‘s fober and fettles his head,Girls mind this when you do marry.?. life in the morning Ijcrore he’s awake,And then I do make him a fife; ■Per break fa ft f get him fome chocolate hot.Or any thing eife he defircs;Ho-gives me a'kifi. and to work he does-go,\ never fay, H 'stand, Why do you fo <We live Hke fwo turtles, no torrjrv we know, .Cirls mind rhis when you do .marry-Vi on Saturday's night his money fall ihort,Vwc malt* the left ferve us oa. Sunday*He cries nvy dear, I’ll do better next week,Ajpd go to'wark early on Monday.Our children obey with fubmifTion and fear ;We have no words but my love and ray dear,We’ve been married >hefe dozen of long years, .Girls mind tfcij when you do marry..If Vt>u have baa fcufbands it’s in vain to fcoid,111 words will nft’er make them better,3vt keep yourfelve* free from contention 3c flri^e,Let your neighbours not know the matter.And be but contented though never fo poor.And GOD, will daily increafe your Here,So that you may drive the wolfe from the door,Girls mind this when you do marry.t 3 1THK H US 3 AN {3 *s answer.MV xife is a i, jtable girl I rriuil awn,And npw 1 do lore her moil deariy.She never did feeid nrhen that 1 ca/nc home,Was 1 ever fo late or fo early,f Ha^ger’d to bed, where all night I did ly,Snoring by her fide like a pig in a tty; (repty,I fometimes call'd her names but (lie ae’er wouldNo man e’er was happier married.Her goodnefs at length did my wiidnefs redaim,That i thou Id abulc luch good nature ; mI thought with myfelfl was much to blame.And therefore refolve to grow better.I’ve left off rny drinking and reveling quite.My kind wife and children is all my delight,My health 1 preferve, and my money flood by me.No man was e’er happier married.She is a good wife and a houfe-wife betides,Although [ have been fush a villain,She will make a groat go further indeed,Thin many one will make a Ihillipg.ohe ? none of thofe wives that drinks cofree oT’tsa,Or goflips about with her neighbours g'l day,Or e’er goes abroad untefs it’s with me,No man e’er was happier married.GENTLEMEN RAKES of * he TOWN.DI D not you hear of the gentlemen rakes.And hestr the fweet cry ot beer, wine oc cakes’,WhiJR we m blue aprons, and clean linen gowns,bor to 7;ca7 ?.ll the gentlcm'eu rakes of the town-C 4 J J.'Hie pooiJ^ian come* liamr to anve aw?y care,And takes forx.s.good’i'dlow away to the fair}!vnme are too b.’fhfu!, and fomi are too joio,Young r/omens’ intentions are Jiot to be teid.Whilft vro in blue aprons, etc.There’S MiHtrs-, th-riVO.^?. there’s Bally & all.ThereV- Lee, and there’s Harper, t,h« desi! and J-W,Whliit we.are a vic^jug fite gentlemen rtkes,And. heVr thvTuwet cry of beer, wins agd calces.Whilft fe in b’.ce aprons, etc.Otsrpirraere vre’* lac’d,with fins round ear’d caps,Wt drefs purfclves nice to tempt our chttps, _With rings & rotnul ribbons to iwell out our pnde.Atid our boi'oms all naked to tempt you behete.Whiia wc in blue aprons, etc.On our arms bangs a bafki t oc iriut that is nice,■Our gentlemens’ palate to pleafe in a tfice,hit it be at a mafquerade, phy-bcuie, or ba■Wc lately frequented, Uk?wife Fox urib» WhiKl we in blue aprons, ute.The Country LatVs Love res her Sweetheart.1 OT long ago in a country place,A dryer ypupg I'd who lov’d a young lals,■She lov’d him agaif, and a wotder to hear,Ko oilers could move her (he lyv’d him so dear.No offers could move btr flic lov'd him fo dear.The lord of the village teok it into hie be<:<LTo tempt her io leave him and come to h .f bed}He offer’d her jewels, fine baubles and rings :C 5 ] .He told.her KeM make her as fine as a queer?,tier clothes ihould be filrar, her cap poId.be .tin.5he fays, linfey wool fey and bor»lace will fcrve,ft.«d rather than pleafe you I’d venture to ftarv'e^And rather then pleafe you, etc.He told her he’d pive her-a p-.d to ride cut,k coach, if ihe lik’d it, to vifit about,the thank’d him, & f.u.-i, fhe could very well walk,>honM the have a coach hoty the neighbours would!' Should I!je have a couch, etc. ' (talk.j He fatd, for the neigh-bn?UTS,he5d ntake it his care,fl1riiat not ev’u the Parton on Sunday diouki dare,o find fault with her condutt, or offer to biame,ier manner of liv'.np, or blah her good name.Her mauuer of living, orblalther, etc.i She tc!d him in (hort, he muif e’en be contest,That curfed gold jl'oitid riot gain her confcnt,der heart was an Of hers, and fo (hquid remain,ihe fcorn’d to be lalfc for rhe lucre cf gain.1 She fee ru'd to be fa he. etc.THE HAPPY MARRIAGE'.AST was a walking one morning.To fair,LX So Green was the be Id's, and ccol was the air.There citd I difeoverPretty Nancy my le ver,’and I for to woo her was pleas’d-f*r to fay,O faired of creatures that tvej was fren,i ou’refhc pride of my heart, the ilow’r of the ‘rrcen,U^ith garlands made cf rofes,And fvrctc pretty podes,IV’hat nature ccmpofss i’ll crown you pay Ouc«i.I <5 1Tothefe words I fpokr (he ztifwcrcd ?nd faid,O how c?.n you flatter & poor harnalef? maid.For your icnguc it ruris fo riittible,It nukts my iieart to tremble,* And I fear you rii’.embie my poor heart to break.Of all nty twee the arts 1 hare had mite or ten,Yet bcter a one can 1 fthcy of ttiem.But if Lfhoaitlbetfeve you.And you fl’.ould deceive me.And fcornfufly leav.* ;'ne, Oh..1 where am I then :Thefe words T fjresk is by the Power's above,The rocks and fhe nK>anfaii)S (hall fooner remove^And the fe i (hall >la«:e on fire,If irom my loved do retire.And there’s nothing I defire, but-innocent love., If innocent Ibye is all your reyueft,And you are in earned, I thought you were :n jeft,1’U adore you with pica fare,With ki&i.s out of mcafiire,"With joy, peace and p!eafore, we both fltal! be bleft,Th;& couple they’re married and live t^ery happy;Enjoying ore another with ylcafotea f? cauty,j be rocks they fh.dl melt,And the mountains (hail move,If ever I prove falfe to ihe woman I love.O DEAR! I'M SO P L E AS ’ D.When Str-phrt ;-ppears., kow my heart pita patthews t;ht tender emotion with which it is feiz’dTo The fhephyd’s bewitching gay innocent chat,S could liflcn. for ever,. O dear! I’m fo pleas’d.«j \ r i 7 3>iRly gran-:ir,c*.her »ro%vns, St pjcic/16 I’m too youn'*,■wit}) the h.Ton of Cupid (o focn to be tesz’d,*5'(But fo fwcet is the honjy that falls from his torque,. laugh at my grandmum, O dear! l^n fo pleas’d.^hoo’r. he nfk 'ne to wed, he hinted to-day.rt ^'h5f! my h;:fid he. fo fort & fo tenderly fqueez’dde’s fo nretty a tVain that I can’t try him nay.I’m refoly’d to be a;arry’d, O dear! I’m fo pleas’d,|j5BBMgs«--»°rusiaaiTHE SOLDIER’S RETURN.iVhen tous’d bythe trumpet’s loud clangor toarms,iduflant I quitted Eliza’s l»-ight charms ;fho’ hTimor commanded, yet love fill’d my mind,Mi ! how could I leave the dear charrner behind ?for the rag j-of the har.le tyith coufage l try’d,>mviv d, while the heroes fell fad on each fide;^ove flood my prcteaor in ail the alarms,tV’hilc the fitYer-toird trumpet ftillhaunded tcafinsf.' Now olive-rob’d Peres kind advances again,'Mod lier LlnTnie;?. difp’rriea wide over the plain;let urn »! to Eliza, we join-in the throng,•Vbereisheard the f0f, ;,ipe,or theherart-UTrmg fong.'•ach rural acmlentent with r.pturs wp trv.Voile the beams of contentment arc found iu eachJ?v? faoAny protects, in *U the alarms, (eye; -V hileth; iuver.tQp'd ‘turrets Rill founded to arms.ira« n nz'.r.] like nc fo trapfce.ndemly blpll,Vhen cl tfpM hy my charmer with joy'tohe? bread;_he 1; .in *5 cf conqueft I give to the wind,.a nought w.ipdut love and honour combi if d:■ut when thu, unijfd, hr,w noble the fame 1 /Vh-.t envy muh wait on fd happy a name 1.ove ftbod my ptoie^qr in all fue alarms,^ h.h, the fiiver-tor.'d trumpet dill founded to arms.[ 3 1F\ I K.kT a E P A T R I o TK X 7 HEN ysune and arflefs as the iamb,w V Whf^h plays about its fondling da:n». Brifk, t/uxcm, pert, »nd filty,*,I {lighted,all the manly Trains,And put my virgin heart in chains.For fmiling fmcoth fac’d Willy.But when experience came with years,Which rais’d my hopes and quell’d my fears,My heart was biythe and bonny,I turr. d of; every beardlefs youth,So gave my word, and fix’d my truthOn honeft iturdy Johnny.NixFat.the w^kfi f thw the ’Squire,For love I felt a new u- Hro,Fond to ^atfniue my mammy,I figh’d for fdages, frogs, and beaux,For pig-tail wigs, and ponder’d clothes,Aiid friken mailer Sammy.For riches next l fet a flame,Old GHpus to hay cottage can:?.And held an amorous parley. ■'For mufic r.evt [ chanc’d to burn.And fondly ullen'd in my tifrn, \To warbling quivering Charity.So no'V alike tftf fools and wits,'Fops, ■fidlers, foreigners and cits,AH llre'ch me by ro-tatio*.Come Jeam of me ye patriot fair,Nor make a bugle mar. your care,Bui ligh for all the nation.'Oia^fow, Pncicd hy>J~&L M. Itcbtnion, SaJima-.ket. iSrnim