PROPHECIESOF \Thomas the Rhymer,THE ANCIENT SCoWh PROPHET ;Containing the wonderful fulfilrnent'fcfilnapj' hf{ his PrfeJfictionSs ^ami’those HOPyW ‘accomplished.Collected, Examined, and now PromulgatedBy Mr. ALLAN^BOYD, F. S. A.Sub-Deputy Janitor's Clerk in .the College of Ilayti-- , .' v '} hr-^'nRj-gETT -T!'!,. if! i ,i J. - ■' " ) i 1~ fj>’ 'AWITH, SUBJOINED, AN ACCOUNT OF THERattle of Bannockhurn,So fatal to tyranny, and farourable to Scottish1Independence.ACS®, THE ^'i r ,|i v. liJ 1 eOflfi ^ \ ‘ 2Cotte^er’s Saturday Night.FALKtRK:PRINTED BYT. JOHNSTON.QOmot10SHORT ACCOUNTOFriOKASi?- Thomas Learmant,.fian-iilqrnoDOSTHE RHYMER.—SIR 1 HOMAS EE ARMANTcommonlycal¬led Thomas Rhymer, was born in the eastcorner of Fife, of a good family,. His Prophe¬cies have been more credited than any that wereever recorded in the Scots Chronicle, as theyhave been well attested, what of them is past,and what they allude to, in this present centuryand period, and of his dark sayings yet to come.He told many mystical prophecies anent allthe Kings of Europe, and what fell oat accord¬ing to his prediction, in this ancient kingdom ofScotland ; what is past, present, and to come.1 his brief account is taken from the Recordof Cryle, near wich place he was born andbrought up.His father was said to be Laird of Balcomieand records of that family is extant in theRolls, for assisting at several councils forthe honour of Scotland. And Sir Thomas Rhy¬mer’s prophecies and sayings are still held inestimation.He live in the reign of Alexander III. Kingof Scotland, in the year one thousand twohundred and fortv-eight, much regarded, andknighted by that king that same year.The first qf his prophecies ever taken to. hefaithfully observed, was, That there should bea storm on a certain day, that wmuld surprise allScotland. Now, some gentlemen being withhim that day, they began to jok Inm, and saidSir Thomas, you are now mistaken, and we shallstay and see your mistake, as we have heard somuch of your prophecies. He told them to stayan hour longer, aud they would see and believe.And in less time than the hour, an express ar¬rived to Sir Thomas, from Edinburgh, of thedeath of Largarrt. Quern to Alexander III. whodied that day. Upon receiving the news. SirThomas told them that this was the storm, andit would give rise to greater commotions in Scot¬land.After the death of Queen Margaret, the Kino-married Isabel, daughter to the Earl of Driux ;and Sir Thomas told within a few months of anearthquak at Kir.ghorn, that would make Scot¬land tremble. An express accordingly came toClyde to Sir Thomas, that the King had fallenfrom his horse ft Kinghorn, and broke his neck4After the death of Alexander, he left no Iteir?except a grandchild, Margaret, daughter to thaKing of Norway, who also soon died ; but a shorttime before her death, she was betrothed t»Edward, King of England. After this there w*regreat commotions anent the succession to thecrown of Scotland, which occasioned great blood¬shed, particularly betwixt Bruce and Baliol, whichyou have recorded in the Scottish Histories.The pride of Spain, and the deceitfid conductof the French, as also concerning the Dutch, isall foretold.—Likewise the Scots battles at Tor-wood, Bothwelbridge, Malpiackie, Killycrankie,Sheriff mure, Proud Preston, near Glad’s-muir,Falkirk, Culloden, and the Camps in Moray-shiie, and on the Windmill brae at Aberdeen,by General Coup, and at Dunbar.In forty-five eighty.two and three,, Sir Tomas’ Works doth certify..THEPROPHECIESOFThomas the Rhymer.S to his prophetical sayings, they are hard tobe understood, because they are pointedout by the Coat of Arms which appertain to somany difiFerent kingdoms and persons. Yet wemay observe how he has pointed out piainly,many things which have come to pass in ourdays; such as the extirpation of the noble raceof the Stewarts, the Revolution Sheriff-muir,where he says,That three Ships and a Shield,That day shall keod the field “And be the Antelope’s build.These' three ships and a shield, are in theDuke of Argyle’s arms.And even every particular of the rebellion i»1745 and 1746. When pointing af it, he says>A Chieftain Unchosen,Shall choose forth himself,And the reaml as his own.6< speaking of Ring Charles, he calls him.x" y, [ox'b,rd who would turn to Christ withof [he°f t0dS and f0XeS,! MeaninS his swear¬ing ol the covenants.in °fPrestonpans,,e J ear 1745, he names the Very two neigh-i!mV,ngeS -0 theSp0t of ground wherfonsa. - “|ht; v,z Coy]eford-green, and Seton,saving Between Seton and the sea, sorrowshould be wrought by the light of the moon.’-Iy can:ie t0 Pass that morning thelT tUe ^ Prestonparfs was fought. But how theLion was hurt at this time, and not perceived, isyet a mystery. Some are of opinion, that it wasby taken away the power or superiority fromthe chiefs of the Highland Clans, so that theycannot raise men in such a short time as formerly.Ihese are a few observations on things al-teady come to pass; and as to what is yet tocome, there is some remark will yet happenwhen the time draws nigh: such as, ‘Whenlavbet s Craigs! are fumbled unto the sea. Andthe next season or summer thereafter,‘great sor-row and bloodshed happen to this realm, thechief thereof especially, such as harling on sleds,and chopping off heads.’ This Tarbet standsnear the root of the river Clyde : but whether itsbeing tumbled into the sea shall happen by anearthquake, thunder, or by the hands of me«, isa my stewy unknown.There is also mention made of a Lord with ali'Cken or double hand, which certainly is of royalmood, and will breed great stir and confusion inntain. Ibis man is alive at this very presentage, and of the Stewarts’ race, now in Italy.7Tasre is plainly pointed out, that in his time, agreat battle should be seen in Fife.Where saddled horses should be seen,Ty’d into the trees green.,, ik>t only in Fiffy but the four chief rivers ofthe realm, there should be a battle on each oftbefn, that should make the rivers run kith blood,viz. Tweed* Clyde, Forth, and Tay.Last of all, a bloody desperate battle in Nor¬thumberland, on the river Tyne. Also greathavock and slaughter about the broad Walls ofBerwick. All these things are yet to come topass ; and when the first appears, the rest willsoon follow after.-od ,jiLsio ifooe tfi bon-: —’ n.ont Jo n ,* . u.s ojovr fc.id tnlf3uo»When Hemp is come and also gone,Scotland and England shall be one.at y o — j, t . r /Henry, Edwardj Mary, Philip, Elizabeth,VII (. VI. ' of Spain.Q: M.’s Hush.HEMP-Praised be God alone,For HemHs come and gone,And left us old Albion,By peace join’d in one.I lie explication of the foregoing prophecy con¬cerning Hemp being come and also gone, leav-8saving Scotland and England joined in one, ufulfilled in the late king William, who came out® Holftand, which, in old times, was vulgarlynailed the land of Hemp and the joining of thetwo nations together, signifies the union.These things were foretold by the two ScotsProphets in the reign of King Arthur. First, bya devil, who ravished a young woman, his mo¬ther, in a wood near Coldstream, in the south ofScotland. Afterwards, to the same purpose,these and many other strange things were fore¬told by Thomas Lermant, vulgarly called ThomasRhymer, because he spoke all his propheticalsayings in rhyme, and so darkly, that they couldnot be understood until they came to pass.But of all the prophets that ever were in Scot¬land, none of them attained to such credit, be¬cause many of his predictions referred to c»ur owncountry, and were accomplished in the last andpresent century.THOMAS THE .RHYMER’SPROPHECIES.IN VERSE.1 GOTLAND be sad now and lament,For honours thou hast lost,But yet rejoice, in better times,Which will pay the cost.TMlir- T92 Tho unto thraldom you should be,Brought by your enemies;You shall have freedom from them all,And enjoy your liberties.3 The grave of the most noble Ptincc,To all is great regret,The subject to law, who both leaveThe kingdom and estate.4 O anguish great! where every kindAnd ages doth lament;Whom bitter death has ta’en away,Shall Scotland sore repent.5 Lately a land of rich increase,A nation stout and tiue,Has lost their former dear estate,Which they did hold of due.$ By hard conflict, and by the chanceOf noble fortune’s force,Thy hap and thy prosperityMay turn into worse.7 Tho’ wont to won, may be snbdued,And come in under yoke ;Strangers may reign, and you destroy,What likes him by sword’s stroke.S A foreign foe whom neither thy force,Nor manners do approve,Woe is to thee, by guile and slight,Will only win above.9 Thls nation was to-fore,Invincible and stout,>> ill yield slowly to destiny,Orieat pity is but doubt.10 In former age the Scots renownnourish goodiv i 1 *' 11 i S'i iCut yet alas j will be overcome ‘ 0 TWith a great dark decay.11 Then mark and see what is the causethis so wond’rous fall <Contempt of faith, falsehood,'deceit,The wrath of God withal.12 Unsatiable greed of worldly gain,Oppression, cries of the poor;-A perpetual and slanderous race,No justice putin ure.13 The haughty pride of mighty men,mu 0fv?nnf?:f vice Phief cau^.., t rf «The nutnture of wickedness, iWit unjust match of laws.v.! ‘ 1 T-Ilxi t’f it v u 114 Therefore this cause the prophetsOf long time did presage;And now' has happen’d every’ pointInto your present age.15 Since fate :s so, now Scotland learnIn patience to abideSlanders, great fears, and sudden plagues.And great dolours beside.1116 For out of the shall people rise,With divers happiness.;And yet a pen can scarcely write,Thy hurt, skaith, and distress,17 And yet beware thou not distrust,Altho’ o’erwhelm’d with grief,Thy stioke is not perpetual,.For thou shall find relief.16 I do suppose, altho’ too late,Old prophecies shall held, :1Hope thou in God’s goodness evermore,And mercies manifold,19 For thou that now a patient is,And seemeth to be bound ;At liberty shall free he set,And fvith empire be crown’d.25 From high above shall grace come down,And thy state, Scotland, be,In later ends, more prosperousThan former age did see.21 Old prophecies foreteH to thee,A warlike heir he’s born,Who shall recover now' your right,Advance this kingdom’s horn.22 Then shall fair Scotland be advanc dAbove her enemies power ;Her cruel foes shall be dispers’d,And scatter’d from her bower. . i1223 Fair Scotia s enemies may invade,But not escape a plague;With syv’ord, 'and thrist, and tears, and-pest,With fears, and such like ague.24 And after enemies.thrown down,And master’d in war,Then Scotland in peace and quietness,Pass joyful days for ever.But that the curious may be more fully Jn-formed concerning the aforesaid .predictions, withrespect,tp. their being, exactly fulfilled, they arereferred to the Scottish Histories.A N ACCOUNTQJ XHEBATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN.EDWARD II, tif England, kept up the sameclaim upon Scotland, which his father hadbegan ; and after several unsuccessful attemptsto establish it, he resolved to make a great effortand with one blow reduce that turbulent nationwhich had put so many signal affronts upon hisfather and himself.In the spring, 1314. he assembled the most13numerous arnav-that had evererossedthe bordeis,composed of diderent cAions. and amountinar-toabove a hundred thousand effeetive men, besidea huge multitude of attendants, who came aiongin hopes of sharing in the plundenof a contjuea-edentiny, At the head of these he marched north¬ward, with an uncommon paradej and in fulj con¬fidence of victory.Robert Bruce, the son of that Robert" Brucewho held a conference with Wallace upon thebanks of the Carron, and grandson to him whohad been competitor with Baliol, had, in 1306,been crowned King of Scotland; and being in¬formed of Edward’s formidable preparations, haraised an army of thirty thousand of his subjects,to oppose him. This armament bore but a smallproportion to that of Edward's ; but it was com¬posed of soldiers, who were hardened by longpractice of war, and who now carried upon thepoint of their sword, liberty end honour, aedevery thing that was dear to rthem. With theseRobert took up his station in the neighbourhood•f Stirling, and waited for Edward’s arrival.The two armies came in sight of each other, inthe month of June ; and soon after, a bloody bat¬tle was fought, in which the Scots obtained a vic¬tory, the most celebrated of any in the annals ofthat kingdom. The procedure of this memorableevent, was as follows :—The English having marched from Edinburghto Falkirk in one day, and upon the morrow, set¬ting out thence towards Stirling, encamped to thenorthward ol Torwood. About Upper Bannock¬burn, and backward upon the muir of Plesn, inthe neighbourhood of the Roman Causeway,ei4pitcesas broken pots, and other vessels, have beenfound ; and upon rocks near the surface, marksbf fire have befen discovered, where it was sup-posed thesoldiers had madeready their provisions.Barbour, the author of King Robert Bruce’s Irffe,speaks as if their camp had stretched so far north -ward as to occupy a part of Carse Ground ; andso vast a multitude must doubtless have covereda large tract of the country.The Scottish army was posted about a mile tothe northward, upon several small eminences,south from the present village of St. Ninians.Upon the summit of one of these eminences;‘nowcalled Brok’s-Brae. is a stone sunk into the earth,with a round hole in it, near three inches in di¬ameter, and much the same in depth, in which,according to tradition, King Robert’s standardwas fixed, the royal tent having been erected nearit. 1 his stone is well know in that neighbour¬hood by the name of the Bore-stone. The smallriver of Bannockburn, rematkable for its steepand rugged banks, ran in a narrow valley betweenthe two camps.1 ;ie Castle ef Stirling was still in the hands ofthe English. Edward, Bruce the King’s brother,had, in the spring of the year, laid seigh to it, butfound himselt obliged to abandon the enterprizeonly by a treaty between that Prince and Mou-bray, the Governor, it was agreed, that, if th6garrison received no relief from England before ayear expired, they should surrender to the Scots.i'he day preceding the battle, a strong body ofcavalry, to the number of eight hundred, wasdetached from the English camp, under the con-maud of Lord Clifford, to.the relief of that garri-son. These having marched through somes hol¬low grounds, upon the edge pf the Carse,' had'passed the Scots arniy befo^elhere were observed.The King himself was the first that perceivedthem, and desiring Thomas Randolph Earl ofMurray, to look towards the place where theywere, told him, that a rose had fallen from hischaplet. Randolph considering this as a reproach,because he had the charge of that part throughwhich the English had marched, immediately setou tafter them with a,party of five-hundred horse,and coming up with them in the pjain. where tfiesmall village of New-House now stands, a sharpaction ensued ; in sight of both armies, and ofthe garrison of Stirling. It was fought with val¬our on both sides; and it was for some tjmedoubtful where victory should turn. King.Robert,attended ny some o( his officers, beheld this re¬encounter from a rising ground, supposed to bethe round hill, immediately upon the west of St.Nutians, now called Cock-shot-nill. James Doug¬las. perceiving.the distress of Randolph, who wasgreatly inferior to the enemy in number, askedleave to go to his support, ri'his King Robert atfirst refused, but afterwards consented. Douglasput his soldiers in . motion ^ observing, however,as he was on the way, that the victory was uponthe point of being won without his assistance hpstopped short, that his ff.itnd might leave the un¬rivalled glory ,ot it.~ fhe English were entirelydefeated, pnd many of them slain ; and Randolphreturned to the camp amuist acclamations ofun-ayersal joy. io perpetuate the memory of thevictory, two stone^were reared up in the field,and are still tp be seen there. They stand ir ^**6spot w»hich-has lately been enclosed for a gardenat the 'north end of the village of New-house,and about a quarter of a mile from the Bofoifgh-Port of Stirling,This victory gave new spirits to the whole ar¬my, and made them so eager for the general en¬gagement, that the night, though among theshortest of the year, seemed long to them. Atlength appeared the dawn of that important dav,which was to decide whether Scotland was hence¬forth to be an independent kingdom, or subjectto a foreign yoke. Early all w^s in motion inboth armies t religious sentiments were mingledWith the military ardour of the Scots : a solemnmass, in fche manner of those times, was said bythe Abbot •flnchafirey a monastery in Strathearn,who alw administered t e sacrament to the King,and th# great oiBcers about him; while inferiorpriests did the same to the rest of the army•After this, they formed in order of bat* e, in atrack of ground called Nether Touchadam, whichlies along the declivity of a gentle rising hill.This situation had been previously chosen, be¬cause of its advantages. Upon the right theyhad a range of steep rocks, now called Murray’sCraig, and in their front were steep banks of therevulet of Bannockburn. Not far behind themwas a wood, some ^estages of which still remain.Upon the left was a morass, now called Milton-bog, from its vicinity to a small village of thatname; much of this bog is still undrained, and apart of it is at present a mill-dam. As it wasthen the middle of summer, it Was almost quitedry. But King Robert haiKreeourse to a strata¬gem in order to prevent any attack from that quar-IT •ter. He had ordered many ditches and pits t« bedug in the morass, and stakes sharpened at bothends to be driven into them, and the whole to becovered over again with green turf, ao that theground had still the appearance of being firm.He also caused crow-feet, or sharp-pointed iron#to be scattered throughout the morass; som e ofwhich have been found there in the memory ttfpeople still living ; the styne manoeuvres were like¬wise carried on for a little way, along the front ofthe left wing ; for there the banks for about twohundred yards, being flatter than they are anywhere else, it was the only place where the ene¬my could pass the river in any sort of order. Bymeans of these artificial improvements, joined tothe natural strength of the ground, the Scotcharmy stood as within an intrenchment, and theinvisible pits and ditches answered to the con¬cealed batteries of modern times.Among the other occurrences of this memorableday, historians mention an incident of a singularnature. As the two armies were about to engage,the Abbot of Inchaffery postinghimselfbeforet.beScots, with a crucifix in his hand, they all felldown upon their knees in act of devotion. Theepemy observing them in so uncommon a posture,concluded that they were frighted into submis¬sion, and that, by kneeling when they should beready to fight, they meant to surrender at discre¬tion, and only begged their lives ; but they weresoon deceived, when they saw them arise again,and stand to their arms with steady countenances.The English began the action by a brisk chargeupon the left wing of the Scots, commanded byRandolph, near the spot where the bridge is now: ■«13thrown over the river at the small village of Char-tershall. Hereabout was the only place where theriver could be crossed in any order A. largebody of cavalry advanced to attack him in front,white another fetched a compass to fall upon hisflank and rear, but before they could come to aclose engagement, they fell into the snare that hadbeen laid for them. Many of their horses wheresoon disabled by the sharp irons rushing into theref^et, others tumbled into the concealed pits, andcould not disentangle themselves. Pieces of theharnessing, with bits of broken spears, and othersrnjipur, still continae to be dug up in the bog.In the beginning of the engagement, an inci¬dent happened, .which though in itself of smallmoment, was rendered important by its conse¬quences. King Robert was mounted on horseback,carrying a battle-axe in bis hand, and upon bishelmet he wore a high turban, in the form of acrown by way of distinction. This, together withhis activity; rendered him very conspicuous as herode before the lines An English Knight namedBohun. who was ranked among the bravest inEdwards army, came galloping furiously up tohim, in order to engageswith him in“single com¬bat, expecting by so.eminent an act of chivalry,to once to put an end to the contest and gain im-motral renown to himself, but the enterprisingchampion, having missed his blow, was imme¬diately-struck dead with the battle axe-which theKing carried in his hand. This was a sort of sig¬nal /or the charge. So bold an attack upon theirKing filled the Scots wdth sentiments of revenge;and the heroic achievement performed by him be¬fore their eyes, raised their spirits to the highestpitch ; they rushed furiously upon the enemy,19who, having by this time passed the river in greatnumbers, gave them a warm reception.A singular occurrence, which some accoutsrepresent as an accidental sally ot'patriptic enthu¬siasm, others as a premeditated stratagem of KingRobert, suddenly altered the face of affairs, andcontributed greatly to the victory. All the ser¬vants and attendants of the Scottish array, who,are said to have amounted to twenty thousand,had been ordered, before the battle to retire be¬hind Murray’s Craig. But having, during theengagement, arranged themselves inamartialformthey marched to the top of the hill, and display¬ing banners, moved towards the field of battlewith hideous shouts. The English perceivingthis motely'crowd, and taking them for a freshreinforcement advancing to support the Scots,were seifced with so great a panic, that they beganto give way in conftision. Buchanan says, thatthe King of England was the first who fled ; butin this he contradicts all other historians, whoaffirm that he was among the last sn the field.The Scots pursued ; and great was the slaughteramong the enemy, especially in passing the river,where they could keep no order, because of theirregularity of the ground. King Edward him¬self escaped with much difficulty, beiou closelypursued above forty miles, by Sir James Douglas,with a party of light horse. He was upon thepoint of being taken prisoner when he was receiv¬ed into the Castle of Dunbar by the Earl ofMarch, who conveyed iiim to England by sea, ina fishers boat; his immense army being entirelydiscomfited. The Scots lost only four thousandmen ; while the loss of the English amounted toabove thirty thousand.toTHECottagers Saturday NightA POEM. '* Containing a very pleasing and affecting Descrip¬tion of the piety and happiness of aCqttager and his Family.NOVEMBER chill blow loud with angrybrow,The short’ning winter’s day is near a close;The miry beasts retiiing from the plough ;The black’ningtrain of crows seek their repose,.The toil-worn Cottager from labour goes,This night his weekly toil is at an end,Odllects his spadea, his mattocks, and his hoes,Hoping the morn in ease and test to spend,And weary o’er the moor his course does home¬ward bend.At length his lonely Cot appears in view,Beneath the shelter of an aged tree ; fTh’ expectant young ones tottering stagger thro ,To meet their Dad with prattling noise & glee :His little wood-fire sparkling cheerfully. .His clean hearth-stone, his thrifty wife s gladsmile,The lisping infirnt prattling on his knee,Does all his weary anxious cares beguile,And makes him quit forget his labour and his toil.24 >The elder Children soon-come dropping in,At service dut, among the farmers round,;,Some drive the plough, some herd^some carefulrunA clever errand, to a neigbb’ring tewn ;Their eldest hope, their Jenny, woman grown,In youthful bloom, health sparkling ip her ey ftffComes home perhaps, to shew herbraw new gown,Or else to lay her hard earn'd penny by, /;To help her parents dear if they in hardship He.' . ■ ■■■-.■r'dW ith joy unfeign'd, brothers and sisters meet,Aiid each for other’s welfare kind inquires ;The social hours, swift-wing’d unnotic’d fleet;Each tells the news that he sees or hears ;The 1 arcnts partial eye their hopeful years ;Anticipation forward pointa the view!The Mqther with her needle and her shears,Makes old clothes look almost as well as new.4he I'atl>er mixes all with admonition due.Their Master’s and their Mistress’s command,The Youngers all are warned to obey.And mind'their labours with a caretrl hand,And ne’er the’out of sight, to lurk or play;‘And O! he sure to fear the Lord alway /And mind your duty, duly, morn and night!Least in fempiation s path ye go astray,Implore his counsel and assisting might;They never sought in rain, that sought, the’Lordaright.But hark ! a rap comes gently to tire dooa;Jenny, who kno ws the meaning of the same22Tells bow a neighbour lad came o’er the moor.To do some errands, and convoy her home,The cautious Mother marks the conscious flame.Sparkle in Jenny’s eye, and flush her cheek ;With heart-struck anxious'care, inquires hisname,While Jenny hesitates afraid to speak;Well-pleas’d the M®ther hears, it’s no wild worth¬less rake.With kindly welcome, Jenny brings him in ;A comely youth : her joy the Mother shews ;Blythe Jenny sees the visit’s no ill ta.en ;The Father talks of horses, fields, and cows,The Youngster’s artless heart o’erflow with joy,But dash’d and bashful scarce can weilbehave.The Mqtber, with a woman's wiles can spy,What makes,the Youth so bashful and so grave;Well-pleas’d to. think her Ghiid such suitor’s liketo have, > 5 . . . : ■ v m : • ■’ ' !von 86'How 3£ J8t>ml*5 «ooi asdioitr ^O liappy Love! where Love like this is found !O heart-felt pleasure! bliss beyond compare !I’ve paced mnch this weary, mortal round,And sage Experience, bids me thus declare.—‘If Earth .a draught, of true delight can share,One cordial in this.melancholy Yale,’ Fis when a Youthful, loving, mojiest Pair,With hearts sincere breathe out the tender tale,Walking o’er fragrant fields that scent the ev’ninggale.’ ‘ •,Is there in human form, that bears a heart—A Wretch ! a Viftaih! lost to love and truth !That can, w ith studied’ sly, ensnaring art,Betray sweet Jenny’s unsuspecting youth!Woe to l.hs perjur’d arts ! dissembling, smoth !Are Honour, Virtue, Conscience, all exil’d?23iFs there no Pity, no relenting truth,II oints to the Parents fondling o’er their Child *! en Pa'ntsthe ruin’d Maid, and their distractionwild!dut now the Supper crowns;;their simple board,■p? he °.^meal parndge cheap and wholesomefood;the milk their only cow doss well afford,That m the orchard peaceful chews her cud ;H he Dame brings forth in complimental mood,J a.please the Lad, the ch sese she would not sell,itnd oft hes prest, and oft he,calls it good :l The >rugal housewife, talkative will tell|iow twas a twelvemonth old, since flax was inthe bell. . , .; he cheerful Supper done with serious face,ihcy round the embers form a circle wide •he Sme turns o’er with Patriarchial grace,1 he huge big Bible, once his father’s pridel is hair is reverently laid aside,His hojary locks so thin and bare:jrom strains that once did sweet in Zion glidef ie takes a portion with judicious care ;nd " Let us worship God! he says, with solemnair. , .jlien kneeling down to Heaven’s Eternal Kin*,Ihe Saint, the Father, and the Husband pravsj ippe 1 springs exulting on triumphant wing,’ *hat thus they all shall meet in future days •here ever dwell in uncreated rays,more to sigh, or shed the bitter tear,Jgether hymning their Redeemer’s praise,In such society- yet still more dear ;bile circimg Time, moves round in an eternalsphere. iQ4r'•a _. >Compar’d withthte, how poor religion’s pride,In all the pomp of method, and of art,0-.'When men.display tfrcongregations wide,Devotion’s ev’ry grace except the heart 1The powi’r incens’d, the pageant will desert,The pompous strain, and sacerdotal stole ;But haply, in some'Cottage far apart,•May) hear, weH-pleae’d* the language of tl eSoul;And in his Book of Life, the inmates poor enrc 1.Then homeward-all take-off their sev’ral way;The Youngling Cottagers re'ire to restThe Paremt-pair then secret homage payAnd offer up tq Heaven the warm-request:That He who stills the raven’s clam’rous nest,And'dEcfc’athe lily fair in flow’ry pride;Would in the tray Tiff wisdom sees the best.For them and for their little ones provide ;But chieflyia their hearts, with Grace Divinereside.O Britain ! my most dear, my native soil !■For whom niy warmest wish to Heaven is sent .Long may thy hardy son* ef rustic toil!Be blest with health, and peace, and sweetcontent!And O f may Heaven, their simple lives prevent,From luxury’s contagion weak and vile !And froln each Cofmay pray’r and praise be sent,To; God’s high throne that He may deign tosmile, >A ad like a wall of fire surround our much-lov’d IsleFINIS.