THE HISTORY OF FAIRROSAMOND,THE BEAUTIFUL MISTRESS OF ^KUMG H6N.R Y THE SEOQMP.HER BIRTH, & EDCCATIONS-*AT THE NUNNERY OF GODSTO\r. ^AND HER DEATH.GLASGOW:W. & R. I N G L I S, & Co.203, Gallowgate.:©>OL- X'•■ f 9 if i4 ♦ ^ 't * ♦ ,4 4 t t ♦ ' * **'*''• .; ■ls»s,cw< tss/AC: '•TrOMi’y ..r.'V* if LM (MM r (crYseoiA:sL:— "■ ‘rtim '' ■ :i -' f •'<VKD HEB 3>lhrXHrm. j.!ir i - -?:tr i-v coikm- ; ■'*:_ U, i < ' UI' v kpccy.tj •>'f c; k ^ii b:a. i.foe sscohe.'UK • 1. LIL! r WI«IKB28 OL1HL MI8XOBA oh hV] ', THE HISTORY OFFAIR ROSAMOND.if - •: u o'* jiJ t•' i;   iplsmeA ■ JiiUi ,&:■ Of let . ;Rosamond daughter of Walter LordClifford, was born in the year 1134; herather was a nobleman of high reputationind wealth, and brought up his daughteri a style befitting his rank.Fair Rosamond was born at the time'hen the skirmishes between MatildaQueen of Henry I.) and king Stephen,ept all England in a ferment. Henry,in of Matilda, and afterwards Henry[., was educated at Oxford, and in itscinity was his boyhood past. It is now^possible to ascertain the exact timehen he first beheld Rosamopd, but sheust have been very young, for it is re-irded that he had seen her in 1149,hen Rosamond was a boarder at God-ow Nunnery.Ihe nunnery at Godstow was founded' Lady.{Ida, of Winchester, who be-m©abbess of the establishment; she at-3hed a church to it, and dedicated theILX, I—ftte4same to the Virgin Mary and St John theBaptist; which was opened in 1138. Ro¬samond could not have been more tharten or eleven years of age when she wasreceived into this holy house ; the regu¬lations of which were by no means scstrict as those of most religious establish¬ments. Stow records, that the femalesof the nunnery “ were wont to appear atthe fair, if they list, and would go to Med¬ley, and other places of diversion.”At Medley a large building betweerGod stow and Oxford, according to tra¬dition, the young and ardent Henry firssaw our heroine, when he was but fifteenand herself only twelve years of ageYoung, handsome and accomplished,—ere the world had taught his breast onulesson of guilt, ere society had plantedweeds in the pure soul of nature—he sawthe gentle girl: too young for love, the}felt an interest for each other; arid sh*would wander from the precincts/>f God-stow, to meet the truant prince who strayad from his tutor at Oxford/cto pass aihour with the lovely Rosamond.When Henry attained sixteen,- he wacalled from his studies and his! pleasuresto assert his claim to the crown, at th<sword’s point. The field of battle, tin5cares of a new life, the honour that hesought, engrossed the mind of Henry;he had little leisure to devote to softerthoughts; a reflection on the pleasantmoments passed with Rosamond, wouldhowever intrude itself, but he only gavea sigh for his early hours, and buried hipgrief in the bustle of warlike preparations.In the meantime Rosamond, had expan¬ded into womanhood; she was now sev¬enteen ; her person was tall, and exquis¬itely proportioned; her hair, which wasof a light golden colour, flowed in suchprofusion, that it seemed as if nature haddesigned it for a garb, for it reached evento her feet; her face was exquisite hereyes dark, and formed a fine contrast toher skin which was beautifully fair, andof a transparent hue.When Hmrv' hi l laid aside his ar¬mour, secure of ultimatelv wielding thesceptre, his thoughts reverted to the com¬panion of his boyish rambles. He soonquitted the south of England for themetropolis, and from thence bent hiscourse to Oxford. He retraced everystep of his boyhood ; he reached the treeupon whose trunk he had fondly carvedthe name of his enchanter;—he lookedupon the name that was indelibly engrav-en upon his heart, and all the passion ofhis boyhood gushed over his soul. Shewhom he loved, was at this time at themanor of her father, and Henry did notwish to encounter Lord Clifford: hewaited, therefore, for a chance of meet¬ing her, in her rambles.Whilst Henry was wandering near thenunnery of Godstow, the mansion ofLord Clifford was the scene of festivityand merriment, for Baron Fitzwarren, ayoung nobleman of riches and noble birth,came as a suitor to our heroine. TheBaron was the son of one of the earliestprojectors of the Crusade ; and he inher¬ited his father’s fame and valour. Hisgigantic person, his courteous manners,caused him to be observed of all. Afiner or a braver vouth never raised aJlance.“ I would willingly/’ said he, addressingLord Clifford, “ awhile lay by my sword ;and taste of the joys of peace, of home,and lead thy beauteous daughter to gracethe halls my father left me ; but my goodLord she turns an icy ear to my warm¬est vows, and seems to woo the cloister.“ My noble Lord,” replied the father,‘ the maid who yields at once is lightlygained and scarcely worth the conquest,:my daughter, doubt not, good lord, whenitime has weaned her fears, she’ll greetyour love with, love as pure, as warm asyou could wish it.”In the gardens of the mansion, LadyClifford contrived to leave her lovely(daughter with the young Baron. Sherose to follow her mother, but with a gen¬tle force, he detained her.“ Fly me not, sweet Rosamond,” hecried, “ for I have much to tell you :come, sit ye down fair lady, and listen tome.”“ My father will chide my stay—mymother too—.”V They will not chide but gladden atyour staying; Oh ! I have much to say,but that my speech grows lack whene'erI gaze upon thee, maiden.”“I pray, my Lord, you will disclose atonce what is of such import to be ut¬tered,’’ cried Rosamond.“ fVTeed I speak then, gentle lady? donot mine eyes speak for me ?—I loveyou, Rosamond.—I come to lay myriches, and my trophies at thy feet andask thy hand.”“ Alas ! my Lord, I am but a silly maid,unwohyof the honours that you proffer A“ Oh ! say you’ll be propitious to me !”. «i—rii   8“■ Indeed, my Lord," crited Rosamondw: ! cannot'’“ Oh ! tell me—ease me of my hope?or fears at once — has any other love en¬throned itself in thy fair breast ?—or canit be, it yet is cold to passion ?”“ Of love I yet have thought not,’’ an¬swered Rosamond,“ Say, you do not hate me."I never hated any earthly thing;,andlittle cause have I to hate rhv lather sfriend,” cried Rosamond.“May I then hope ?“ eagerly exclaimedFifzwarren.“ All that in duty I should do, I will;and your lordship will believe, that I amnot insensible to the honour that youf ■ ^proffer me.“Lord Fitzwarren found her answerseven more evasive than he anticipated,and bowing respectfully left her, to com¬municate to her father his hopes.That very evening Rosamond wanderedwith her maid from the castle, musingupon her early days, and tasking hermind to compliance with the wishesof her parents, when a rustling in thebushes beside her aroused her from herreverie. In an instant, a youth, clad ina green hunting tunic, leaped over the9lirambles that divided them; she looked•pon him for a moment; it was her for¬mer lover, who stood beside her; the4oung, the handsome Henry, now expan¬ded into manhood. Words could ill con-jey the emotions of either bosom ;—therene stood, her own, her darling boy ;—(he first being of her own age for whomMie felt a care. The days of childhood,and its joys, crowded on her memory,as she gazed upon every feature time hadiripened into manly beauty. When s1"/last beheld him, he was a fine youth, wiu®health upon his cheek, and truth uponhis tongue. War and toil had thrown aIdarker hue over his countenance, butitime had given a sweeter cadence to hisvoice: the generous boy had become the’flattering lover.Henry urged her flight; but Rosarti.ond's(sense of duty revolted at the ideat “ ShallII fly, she cried, “ from my parents, towhom I owe a thousand times more thanI my utmost gratitude can ever repay ?oh ! do not urge me to it!’“ Gentle, lovely Rosamond,” repliedthe prince, “ they can but wish thy' hap¬piness—in my arms you will be happy.”“ Why not at once reveal to my father-vour love ?” cried Rosamond.J!10“ That is at present, impossible. TStephen’s death, I am but the dependaiof a party, promise me, at least, ray:Ros;|mond, that you will have no other, andwill wrait till happier hours may conto make thee mine.’,“ By every star above us •!” cried Rosemond, “ I vow that, if I am not thine, inever will be another’s.“Rosamond, pressed to the throbbinbreast of Henry, had uttered this vow erj-^e had time to reflect that she had thu•Worn to frustrate the intentions of hfather. The lovers parted.Lord Clifford urged the suit of hinoble friend, and Rosamond at lengtlperemptorily refused him. Wonder gav<;place to rage in the bosom of her fatherand he punished his disobedient child byjconfinement to his castle. She had ncmeans of communicating to Henry hersituation, and the agony of restraint was'increased by the conviction, that herlover awaited her coming at the usualspot, and must be torn with surmises asto the cause of her absence.Henry, however, judged that theirmeetings had been discovered ; but, em¬boldened by love, he, at midnight ap¬proached the castle, and bribing the sen-11tinel and Rosamond’s maid, he crossedthe moat, and placed himself beneaththe lattice of Rosamond's chamber. Themaid true to her promise brought hermistress to the window, and left her there,gazing on the brightness above her, whenthe moonbeams fell upon the figure ofher lover. Breathless with pleasumandalarm, she gazed upon him—“Fly!’’ atlength she exclaimed; “ dangers awaityou.”“ I defy all danger for one glance ofthine eye—once accent from thy tongue,the only bliss left me on earth.”“ Oh ! do not talk of bliss—the guard ifthey perceive, will surely destroy thee.““ Say that you love me still, and I will fly,“replied the prince.“ Oh! can you doubt it! If there betruth in all you profess, oh! fly, love,now.”Henry turned to take one parting glanceand fled.Rosamond, now removed to Godstow,and put under the charge of the abbesswould gain no tidings of Henry; she be¬thought her therefore of her vow never,never to be another's,^and now calmlymeditated giving her existence to thechurch. Whilst thus weaning her mind12from earth, she was suddenly called toconfession ; she met Father Ambrosewith a cheerful air, and was about to ad¬dress him, when he cried, “ Be pacified,good daughter; another hour the churchwill hear vour errors —I have much ofimport to reveal to you—I see you herein sorrow, as yet a novice in the holyhouse, and my religious function bids mewarn ye not to mock Heaven with afeigned love ;—your thoughts stray stillin earth—is it not so ?““ Alas ! my Father/4 replied Rosamond,“ such has been mv weakness, buttime ‘“ I speak not thus to chide you.Heaven delights not in constrained vows ;and there are duties yet on earth whichyou may still fulfil, wherein your daysmay pass as holily as here—there's onehas wooed thee, maiden ; and I have lis¬tened to his exhortations to bear theethis.“ So saying, he put a scroll into herhands, and she read as follow :s—“ Beloved of my soul,—Remembervour vow—tell me bv the friar, if thouwilt be mine, and I will deliver thee.H e who bears thee this doth wish us well,and may be trusted,—Your wretchedlover,—Hhnry.“13“ Tell me, Friar,“ she cried, “ whatmean you?—-what meahs he?““ Maiden," cried Father Ambrose, “"'hewho writes you thus has won upon me,by earnest prayer to breathe his vows toyou—and I proffered him my service:you have confessed to me your love—[that too has swayed me: a virtuous wifeis a better title, than an unblessed nun."Scarcely knowing what she did, Rosa¬mond took the required vow.“ ‘Tis well," cried Ambrose ; " Heavenknows, ‘tis for its service that I venturethus; to-morrow night, when all is hush¬ed and still, feign you a sudden cause toquite your couch, and reach the portalwindow, from thence a ladder slung shallgive you safe to him 1 shall send to^uard thee ?““My father! my mother!" exclaimedRosamond ; "what will they say?"" Time shall content them. In the:hurch‘s name I do pronounce to thee,shat less of sin is in thy flying hence thanharrying here; therefore be comforted."" May f not write to them, to say that| have gone, but am not yet unworthy ofIheir care ?""No; I forbid it. I will calm theirears. Leave all to me."14The bigotry of the period made the in¬junction of a‘Father Confessor almost a'law ; and Rosamond scarcely paused toask herself if what she purposed waswrong, secure that the sanction of thechurch would not be given to evil.Father Ambrose was one of the manv•< -wretches, who make religion the cloak tovdlany. The moment he learnt fromthe confessions of Rosamond who washer lover, ho sought means to communi¬cate with Henry, and to ingratiate him¬self with the future Monarch, as well aswith the hope of present gain, agreed tobecome the pander of his Prince.The curfew had tolled, and every lightwas extinguished—the cottager had dash¬ed the ashes from the wood slip that inthose days supplied the place of candles—and all was silence and darkness: thesolitary sound of the startled wolf-doghalone broke upon the ear, as Henry,;guided by a confidant of Father Ambrose,’paced the confines of Gods tow Nunnery.!“ Descend, and be in safety, and in'bliss,” exclaimed a voice, whose lightestecho was a heart-throb to her. Therewas no time for pause, for thought—herofoot was upon the ladder—-Henry’s handhad grasped hers and she descended. e15“ Away, away !” he cried ; “ she is won,and I am happy.”Rosamond was placed upon a leopard-skin for a pillion : her lover sprung upbefore her, and his faithful steed flewwith them across the country ; the dimhaze of morn was upon every surroundingobject—she knew not whither she went;one arm encircled her lover, whose heartbeat beneath the gentle pressure of herhand ; ■ the rapidity with which they wentrendered speech nearly impossible, andscarcely a word was breathed, till Henrvhalted to speak with his companion.“ Where are we ?” he exclaimed.“ Right for our destination ; we areten miles from Uxbridge yet.“The morning-star was fading beforethe coming day, when Henry enteredUxbridge, where he dismounted, andassisted his lovely companion from herseat.“ Here you are safe,“ he cried, as heled her into a neat, though small, cottage.“You lack rest; let me lead you to achamber. Sleep, my beloved. I willbe your watch ;• no danger shall approachtou.“JA few hours passed in a fruitless en¬deavour to repose, when Rosamond for-16sook her pillow, and sought her lover..The excitement of her flight had lulledher anxieties, and overwhelmed herthoughts of home ; but, in the reflectionsthat time afforded her, they came withredoubled force.“Oh! Henry,“ she cried, “I repentme of the past: bear me back to myfather; what will be his agony! whatwill my mother suffer! Will they notturn in theii- grief, and curse their child ?““My Rosamond, my own belovedRosamond,“ cried Henry, “ your happi¬ness is my life ; for I live but to promoteit; your will, my law ; your wish, a man¬date. Rest but to-day ; and by this eve,1 swear to bear you where you will.“Ere long they were again mounted.The roads to Godstow and to Londonwere both direct, though in different di¬rections ; but as the horse was led forthat the back of the dwelling, Rosamondnever noticed the direction he took, androde contentedly on, though every steptook her further from the abode of herparents.“ Whither have you carried me ?“ sheexclaimed, as they passed over the Strandthen a barren track ; “ and what riveris that which rolls beside us ? there is17no such stream aftmnd my1 father‘3dwelling.*1“ Be satisfied; for you are safe,’* criedUenrv.•/They passed through the gate of thecity, (now Temple-Bar,) and turning tothe right were instantlv amid the etois^ters of the Knights Templars. In‘:therecesses of the Temple the prince-hadprepared a dwelling; and thither theyinstantlv flew. Fatigue had again sub¬dued the gentle fair one, and her loverleft her to repose. When she awokeshe repeated her entreaties to be sent toher parents.“ Would you leave me, then ?“ criedHenry, " me who can resign the pagean¬try of a throne for yon !—Oh ! my gen¬tle love, who breathes of sweetness to alleise, he not so cold to me 1““ Call it not coldness/* replied Rosa¬mond ; “ by my virgin faith, the love Ibear you cannot be excelled ;—the blushthat rises on my cheek attests it ;—butoh ! my Henry, my heart is heavy withmy parent's woes : of them I now rmistthink."“ Refresh thee, love," cried Henry,“ and chase these thoughts and he18handed her the goblet, filled with therichest vintage, as he spoke.The curfew mandate extended evento the habitation of the prince, and everylight was extinguished ; the pale beamsof the moon, alone, fell upoi} their facesas they sat—the solitude, the calmnessof the hour, gave a ch^rm to all. Henryapproached, not as the conscious lover,who deemed her all his own, but as thehumble suitor, who feared offending,when he came to bliss her.“ We are the victims of fate, my be¬loved Rosamond,“ he cried ; “ but thetime will come, when all shall be ourown. When Stephen is in his grave, asovereign's love shall bid all sorrow cease,and England hail fairRosamond as queen."‘Twas in vain that she spoke of LordClifford. “ He will forgive the means,when he beholds the ,end“, ciiedHenry,“ and bless the deed that made ffis daugh¬ter Empress of this Isle. Do you doubtmy word ?»“ Off ? no, no, no, “ cried Rosamnd“ I have no doubts, no fears; your loveI know, and I judge it by my own."" Then niy soul's treasure," cried theenraptured prince, " doom not that loveto such long, needless pangs—come be19my own ; to morrow's sun shall join ourhands, if that be your desire—to nightbe mine.“ , tLost to a sense of all but one being, onethought, and one hope, she sank to sleepin the arms of her seducer.Where love has fixed his throne, ittakes little skill to chase away the griefof a wounded heart—the Prince renewedhis .vows, and Rosamond, too fond todoubt, was satisfied.In after years, Lord Clifford discoveredhis daughter in the mistress of the king,but he could not wrest her from him ;and the same concealment that .protectedRosamond from the fury of the queen,withheld her from the fondness of aBather.Day passed after day, and he foundlew pretences to delay the marriage ;uid at length Rosamond gave birth to auon. The hour of travail had scarcelypassed, when news of Stephen's deathlulled Henry hence.Days, weeks, months, passed away,nd the fatal truth at length came uponer heart—she,should never be the wife'f Henry—another was to bear that title !.leaner pf France, who had been divorc-Id from her husband for infidelity, was* •20already betrothed, and would soon beunited to the monarch of England;Rosamond pressed her babe to herbreast in mute agony when the newsreached her. “ Come, my Richard,“ sireexclaimed, ‘- come to the heart thy fa¬ther's falsehood s broken !—sleep on, myboy, though thy mother sleeps no more;-—slumber, my little treasure ; thou artall that is left me now—the lovely relictof faded bliss, the living and beauteouspledge of a faith that is forgotten nowAt this time she received the followingnote from Henry.‘ Stem necessity may rule the han—But not the heart. I was never morethine own than now. Do not hate me,but believe in the unquenched love ofhim whom fate has for awhile taken fromthee. “ Henry.“ The sinking wretch,” says the pro-’verb, “ catcheth at a straw so does thedropping heart sustain itself on the mostslender hope.—There was comfort evenin this scroll, and Rosamond washed itwith tears of joy.With her two babes Rosamond nowpassed her hours, declining any furtherinterview with her father; but Henry at)length forced himself into her presence.21—It was a dreadful moment for both*The anger that was on his brow, as heentered, faded, and shame wrote herblushes there. Indignation for an in¬stant glowed in the face of Rosamond;but it fled, and the reproach of a pallidbrow was all that greeted Henry. Theygazed on one another. The gentle heartof Rosamond relented; she read herInver Is anguish in his glance; and, throw¬ing herself upon his neck, in one gush oftears, spoke her forgiveness.The King passed his hours with Rosa¬mond. and his frequent and long ab¬sences at length aroused the jealousy ofthe Queen. There were not wantingthose about the court who were glad tofoment dissensiofnsl; rumour followed ru¬mour? scandal, who builds upon a breath;framed tales that reached the royal ear,and Henry's quiet was now invaded bythe reiterated* upbraidings of his consort;she, who, from her violence, had attainedthe title of the She-wolf of France, w^asnot- of a nature to brook the royal neglectwith patience or humility-.Alarmed for the safety of Rosamond,for Eleanor ‘threatened her life, Henrvresolved to remove her to a distance ; andthe Palace of Woodstock offered a safeasylum. But a lover’s mind pictures -athousand fears; and Henry scarceythought the massy walls of Woodstock asufficient protection against the malice ofthe Queen and her emissaries. There wasat that period at the court, a young Nor¬man* named Theodoi'e D’AguevilLe, whowas skilled in architecture and design ;and to him he committed the task of forti¬fying this retreat for Rosamond.—Theo¬dore however proved false to his trust,and revealed.to queen Eleanor, the secretof Rosamond’s abode.To- the gardens also D’Agueville di¬rected his attention : bower intersectedbovver; grove returned itself into grove,which were so intermingled with falseand real turnings and passages, thaitbecame nearly impossible to unravel theroad ; the mystery was, however simpli¬fied by marking the trees differently onthe two sidestHthis mark, so minute asto escape even a close investigation, yetsufficiently distinct to strike instantlythe well informd eye, was the only clueto the labyrinth.The best refutation to the absurd storythat silken elite led to the differentwindings of the grove, or-the apartments,is,,that silk was npt then in use in thisconn ry. ,23In this secure retreat, amidst all thedaudishments that wealth could give,ind love enjoy, Henry and Rosamondmassed many delightful and happy hours.Treason, however, gained such aniscendancy that it became necessary thatHenry himself should quell it. Takingeave therefore of Rosamond, he prepar¬ed to depart for Normandy.No sooner was the King beyond thesea, than Theodore D’Agueville, intro¬duced queen Eleanor into Rosamond’sapartment.You are indeed fair ! “at length criedthe Queen : “ goodly to the sight but foulwithin ! Aye, look on me, strumpet!I am she, whom through life thou hasbeen wronging.—We never met till nowbut I have cause to know thee.““ Speak, what is your wish ?““Oh! Your death!“ was the reply.“ Here is a dagger—here a poisonedbowl ; if you dare not strike, drink, andbe at peace. .Nay, do not quail, or I willgive the blow.’’“ Spare me a little yet!“ cried Rosamond.“ ‘Tis fit I die,“' quoth Rosamond;“ and yet I cling to life. But grant, yourmajesty, one moment, ere you send meto end a long account of sin in eternaltorments ‘wf#0I24The Queen was silent and she con¬tinued—oo . //.wf* I was young, and not unlovely. ThePrince proffered me his heart—his hand—and I believed his vows. He ruinedme, ere you had seen him. Time passed,and he was wedded.—I awhile withstoodhis suit, nor yielded to his wishes; but amother's weakness and a mother's fears^subdued, meto save my children, Ibecame a wretch ! Humbly I bend beforeyou ; I ask no life to revel on in sin ; nordare I hope, even while I implore forgive¬ness.1—But think ye, lady ‘tis a bitter thingo rush we know not, dream not whither ;-r-not for mine, but for my soul's sake,spare me ! and I swear, I in a closter'swalls ivill veil my face, far from the sightof him who has undone me."The beauty, the meekness of Rosa¬mond, won upon the heart of the Queen—the weapon dropped from her hand.Rosamond made a solemn vow, neverto see Henry more, but to enter theNunnery of Godstow; and the Queenquitted her. ’ ;vShe died in the year 1191, aged 52.,bnomr?oH /fioup “oib I 33 «fT‘•'THE END. H