THEADVENTURES0 F T H EExtravagant Wit;O R,’The Rnglijh Swindler,SWEWING /The various Frauds anfl Tricks he committedin and about London.%Extending them alfo to the mojl diflant Parts of the Globe.AMONGST WHICH ARE THE FOLLOWING :Hove he cozened a rich Ufurer, and a young Tra'def nan—Hoau he cheated a Scrivener of 300/. which he borrowed—Hotv he cheated a Gentleman out of his Hottfe—/Id-ventures in a Baivdy-houfe—He is laid in Prifon by oneof his Creditors—a laughable Trick he fermed a Bailiff,by which he effected his Efcape—He goes on the Highway,is taken, and committed to Newgate—Receives Sentence of.Death—Is reprieved for Tranfportation —His adventuresabroad—Curious defeription of a Burning P,fountain, andvarious other places—He marries a Black Woman, ap¬plies himfelf to buftnefs, and forfakes his former viciousCourfes.The Whole difplayieg an infinite Fund ofGOOD HUMOUR AND WITTY EXPLOITS.STIRLING'.PS.XNTE® AND SOLD BY C. RANDALL.*803,* n r.f!ADVENTURESEXTRAVAGANT WIT;O R,The JEng/iJJj Swindler.1'- V ONE day I met with an old comrade that haJlately broken open a <hop,' who told me he had •; |quantity of gocd commodities, and deiired me te:put them off for him; I told him I would h inext day he delivered what he had iiro my hands f.3 inftantly carried them to an o d Ufurer teilmaliim, I only defired to pledge them for luch a timetrequefting to lend me £61 thereon. He looking:upon them to be thrice the valu^jhnt me freelvtlit*:money propounded, and laid the goods in a placetnext his bed-chambtr t he fame day 1 met v-itnjthis friend, who demanded of me whether I had donqhis bufinefs ? No, not yet. faid I, it will be to-morarow firft: However, let us drink a gi fs of winewhich he readily confented to Having drank prettyimartly, he could not cnritam himfelf, but told nidwhofe fhc*p it was he robbed, and at what time. Ifeemed to take little notice then, though f intended'to make good uie of it Parting with him, I went?jflraightway to the peribn robbed, and told him that!accidentally I was informed of his iatelofs and thatmy intention of coming was out of a principle offhon^fty, to affill him in the recovery of what was.ilolen from him But before I acquainted him withany thing, I required of him a bond of to if fJhelprd him to his goods, which he granted me £Ihen advifed him to get a warrant, which he did.r i and fakini? fnm<' friends with him, I dire&ed themwhere they iho ild go, and m what place they (houldiind them. He would have had me go with them,but that f excufed myfeif from Taking a conftablev/ith them, they watt and found what they foughtfor, according to my. direction, which they feized,living the old Ufurer to condole his lol's.The next I fell on was a young merchant, towhom I went genteely habited, with a foot boywaiting at mv h:els I looked out leveral commo¬dities and laid them afide, alluring him that I wouldever lay out a confiJerable parcel of money with,him. We difcourfed upon the price, and in theconclufion doled. The next day { appointed thegoods to be fent home to my houfe, and in the in¬terim, defined him to go along with me, and acceptwhat poor accommodation my habitation would af¬ford him, (under the pretence of being better ac¬quainted, but m^ delign was to raife in him a goodopinion of me; for I iiad one room tftecially veryrichly fur ilhed ; My motion was entertained, andaw:;y we went where I treated him nobly Then. xt day the gjods were fent with his fervant, whoexpeded his money, but f pretended that mycalhierwas abroad, and io defired him to call the nextmorning; he did. but then I was nor to be fpokenwith. Thus he did fo often till the young manwas weary : at lad the mafter himfelf came, whomet me jutt as I was going out; who had not thepatience to alk for his money, but prefuitly ralliedmbit bitterly, calling me cheat, knave, &c and thathe would not put himfelf to the trouble of pollingme up but would have a warrant for me inllantly.Being gone, I was as nimble as himfelf having acouple of mv emitTaries ready with a warrant forhim againft his return. It was not long before hecame Hrutting with a conftable; perceiving him■ t—*h r ~~coming, I fent my two friends out with their war¬rant and putting it into the con ft able’s hand, char¬ged him in the king’s naipe to execute it upon themerchant; the conftable dare not deny it, bu“ car¬ried him before a Juftice, before whom my tworogues fwore flat felony, and lo he was committed.Sending for friends they advifed him to makeend thereof : whereupon I was much folic’ted ; andupon conlidemtion, I confented to caufe my friendsto forbear profecution.^ttirinp myfdf one time in one of my richeft«arbs, 1 went to a Scrivener in Bow-lane, and ac-0 ’quainted him 1 had an occafion for an hundredpounds He demanded the nrmes of my i'curity,1 told him where they lived, two peitons of emi¬nent worth (whom I knew' were going into thecountry) and defired him to make enquiry, buf init to be private and model!: The Scrivener went,and found them by report, to be what thev were,real, able, and lufficient rnen. Iw6 or three daysafter, I called upon him, to know whether I might ■have the money He told me I might bnngmgthe pefons. and appointed me a day. According^I came, with two of my accomplices, attired likewealthy grave citizens who perl’onated fuch perfonsfo to the life, that the Scrivener could rot enter¬tain the leaft fufpicion The money being ready, Itold it over, and putting it up in a bag I and myinfignifkant boodfinen fealed, leaving the Scrive¬ner to another enquiry after us. whom, if he oidnot meet, he could never find out by reafon of «urfeigned names. - *It chanced that my forged and fictitious namewas the fame with that of a gentleman in Surry,who was a great* purchafcr; which I came to knowby beirfg accidently In his company, the next nightafter I had cheated this credulous Scribe. Where-( 5 )upon I went t'' the Sc ivener again, and told him,',that I had now a fair opportunity to benefit myfeifvery much by a purchafe provided he would afiaftme with two hundred pounds more. But, fir, faidI, take notice ;in a carctcfs and renercus franknefs)that it is out of a prrticuiar refpeft to you, that youmight profit by me, th*t I coT.e a^ain ; neitherwill I now giv - you any other fecurty tiiaa my ownbond ; but if you will defire ro be fitisfied as to myeftate, pray let your fervant go to fucli a place inburry, th/reis a piece of gpld to bear his charges.He prorriifeci me to do whac I required. Imaginingwhat time his iervant would return, i appeared tohim aga h and underftood that he received as muchfitisf.iCti n as Ire couid require Hereupon I hadon my own band the. money paid me.£ cannot'but laugh to think how ftrattgely theburry gentleman was fuorifed, when the moneyb coming due, was den ended of him ; and how likethe figure of the man in hangings the Scrivenerlooked, when he found himfelf cheated. ■Walking one time in the fields,’ I was got as faras Hackney before I thought where I wad, for mythough s were bufied about defipns. Calling myeye on *he one file of me, I law the prettieft builth ufe that ever I beheld. I prefently had a covet¬ous dclire to be malfer thereof: 1 talked but alittle way further, and I foon found out a plot toaccomplifii my deiiies. I returned, and knocked,at the gare, and demanded of the fervant whetherh;s matter was within ? 1 underftood he was, andthere.ipon deiired to fpeak with him. The gentle¬man came ut to me himfelf, defiring me to walkin. \fter I had made a genteel apology, I told himmy bufi iefs, which was only to requefi: the favourof him, that I might have the privilege to bring aworkman to furvey his houfe. and take tne dimerv*( <5 )fions ttereof; becaufe I was fo well pleafed wlt^the building, that I eagerly defired to have anothqbuilt exacllv after that pattern. The gentlema;could do no lefs than to grant me fo fmah a civility)Coming home, I wen to a carpenter, telling I wdabout buying an houfe in Hackney, and thatwould have him accompany me, to give me (v.private) the 'eftimate Accordingly we went, atmiound the gentleman at home, who entertained rnkindly. In the mean time the carpenter took aiLexatt account of the butts and bounds of the houfon paper ; which was as much a1* I defired for the ;time Paying the carpenter well I diimified him iand by that paper had a leafe drawn, wrh a ver.great fine (mentioned to have been paid) at a fmarent; witnefles thereto I cbnld not want Short! ;?fter, I demanded poficfiion, the gentleman, thinking me out of my wits. only.laughed at me; I com)menced my fuit againft him, and brought my C’-ncreatures to Iwear the fcaling and delivery of thdiieafe; the carpenter’s evidence, with many otheiprobable circumftaccts to firenpthen my c<u!ewliereupon i had a verdift • t he gentleman underftanciing what I was, thousTit it later *n com;pound with me, and loofe lomething, rather thatloofe all.Wanting one time fome money to fupplymy preXent occalior.s, I cou'd not think of any means uaffilh me in this necellity, but to jell my feather bed.with furniture thereunto belonging. • Packing thenup 1 got a fiit-nd to go along with the porter, anufell them to an upholflcrer : Which he did, bring,ing me about had ilv ir worth. A week afterwards!wanting my bed, 1 re fo'vecl tohave.it again ; whereupon i went to him that bought it afking bionwhether at fuch a time there were not luch articleiold him ? He acknowledged there was. I defirtvto frc them, and he as readily granted that. Sir,v faid I, thele are my goods : I was lately robbed, andnnw I kn\w ycu are the recover, I niuft have youbefore a Justice to know how you came by them.The name of a Juftlce fo te-Tifyed the fellow, thatbe bade me take them, if I could fwear they weremine, ami Jut him to no further tr ouble. 1 Iworeth:y wrre my goods, (and th-reio I w.:s not per-| jo e-l) hut I told him, l could not receive ftolea•ft goods fafely. th. ugh they were my own in fhorc,.I got my bed and furniture again, with money toboot/• fter an ex'rsordina’y run of luck, gained atcmi* by myfelf and two of my companions, wecame to a determination to (hare the cafh ; and,upon the divilio i, we found each man’-s fhafe toamount to 40I Being overjoyed at my good fuc-cefs, I refofted *o re urn :h -.nks for my good Jor-* tune in io ne private meetina-heufe, where l mighthave a iilier to .-fli'r in he carrying on the work ofthe day. I had no looner intimated my define, butp. efentiy one of my rope-brokers gave me intima-tio.- of a place fit for that purpote He adviled me,vdiert I came to the door, to pretend I came to en¬quire out lodgings. 1 went according to my direc¬tions ; tr at the firft i thought myleif abuled bytheie ro ues, or miftaken in the houie, when I fawa porter itandiug at the door : to uncicceive myfelf,I conh 'ently, ye civtly, aiked him whether therewere any iodgings to be let there ' Yes, lir, faid he,which you may view if you will give yourlelf thetrouble of walking in. I had no iboner e itered thedoo:, but 1 wrs met by a grave matron: Madam,fatd 1, I am i. formed that he e are lodgings to belet: There is 10, fir, laid lift ; and with that con-ducied me into her pancur, there to take aftriiter view of me, a« to my perion and garb, by( 8 )whkli fiie miehf judge how well lined mV pocketswere. After relolving fometiivial queflions, (lietlfen fhewed me the way Tip flairs, into a verylarge dining room, adorned round with excellentpiflures, the effigies of divers ladies fas (took themto be) celebrated in former ages for the fairefl andmoft beautiful of that fex 1 feryant brought ussi bottle of Sack, wi’hout any order given, as l couldperceive, out of which the old gentlewoman drank ■to me, expreffing my welcome Fo:- want of otherdifcourfe, fas I thought) fcecaufe **'6 were both filenta while, fir, faid file, as you are a gentleman, you Irmy have fome knowledge-in the nob'e art of Hr..- ;ring, fo muchfludied by the gentry of this nation ;wherefore, your judgement, fir, which of all the!epidlures is the bcft drawn, or hath the bell features ?Madam, faid I, I fhall freely give vou my opinion ;which is, This-, in my opinion, ^pointing at one) forfhehath a full large front, her arched eye-brows arethich and black, her eyes are of the lame colour,and feem ts penrtra'e that which they look on ;—view her lips, whofe plumpnyfs :-i d reonefs refera¬ble a douWe cherry, what might be laid more ofthis reprefentaiion I fhall wave, wifhirg myfeif nogreater happinels than to difcourfe the reft with thereal fubftance :—’A hich is not itnpoffibe, fir, it youcan have but the faith to believe your own eyes;and fo inftanfly withdrew herfelf, leaving me amaz¬ed at what I had feen. Hearing a rufiling of fiiks,I drew my eyes off the pidliu-e, and looking towardsthe door, there I faw enter an angel; for I couldnot believe there could be fo much perfedhon inany one mortal. With profound reverence I floodat a cliff a nee, admiring, or rather adoring her per-fon, till Ihe fmiiiRg’y clelired me to fit down. Beingcome to myfeif, f began to talk to her, and in halfan hour, confidence had repoileif her ancient leatin me* It would not only take up too much time,^— —-—~bur alfo offenti the ears of the modeft reader, hereto ini’ert whar di'courie we hid ; therefore I lhalLwave i', and corne to the cocctuhon hir, faid fhe,1 que.lion not but that you arc acquainted with thecudoms of the houfc ? I protehed to her, that Iwas altogether ignorauc Why, you mud kuoAt,.that you may cill for what wine you pleafe not ex¬ceeding four bottles; and if you pieale to eat, youihati h ive fome choice bit, fui'able to the leafon tif you ftay n*r all night, your expence fhall be butforty Ibihings, and you ihal! have to boot the en¬joyment of a miftrcfs : but if you ftay all night,then thus mu!t you do you muft depolit, beforeyou go to bed, ten guineas, laying it underneath,your own head, and for every kifs. &c take a piecebacx again ; and if you draw in this m inner ail yourown Itake, you may next day be dknitfled with agreat deal of applaufe, without expending a penny.I was ftark mau to be at it, and ib i npatient thati prefently told out ten pieces Telling my moneythe next morning, I found I had drawn eight piecesof my ten; aud thought two guineas were ?i<;verfetter fpent. nor hulbanded with fo much recrea¬tion and delight.Having gone thus far without any remarkablecheck, at leaft any fuch as might bear a proportionwith the villaides and injuries I had done j I abso¬lutely thought that nothing was dilhoneft or diffi¬cult, that had in it either plealure or profit. Meet¬ing with no moleftation cr hindrance, I took myfreedom to do even what I lifted But when Ithought myfetf mod fecure, i then found l was in thegreateft danger . feveral times there was attemptsmade to take me, but f was ftill too cunning forthem ; yec at laft they over-reached me, being arrel-t .d in an afticn of 5000I and conveyed to theKing’s Bench. Being loon weary of this 'place.T io Jwherein are as many maladies and mifchiefs a5 fle^r-cu" cf Pandon’' b< x I iiivenfed tins ftratagem :One nay t prorei'.cetl much bufineis abroad, and fogen leave to go cut with n>' ktep'T, retolvirg notto return vith him Having bren from tavern toalchoule, audio to tavern agon pretending t*iediipatch of much hufinefs l at length toh4 n-.v k ep-er, tliat I v ould vilit a v r eiea- friend ' f mine,bi i th?t I thought it requ life to be trimmed tirft.He confenting we went to a barber’* ; I fat no vnin trie chan* lirfr, and being iipatched i d fired thek-rper to fit down too, and I would p y for fpru-cifying his phyfiognomy Whi if he was trimmingI t alked cf one thing or other, to hold him in dii-cou .fe. At l?.il laid the barber ihut yeur eyes, orel!' my ball will offend yen Shutting 1 is eves, Itook an occ.dicn to flip our, planting myi if in anhoufe bard by; tho barb-r .not imagining I was aprifoner The keeper not hearing me talk, valuednot the fmart, but opened his eyes; and itreing menot in the ihop, rule up, and that fo haitiiy, that heoverthrew Cutbezrd. and the balbn upon him, tun¬ing out into the llreet with the barber’s cloth a-bout him I he people feeing him thus with the *froth about his face, concluded him mad, and as heran gave him the way The barber with his razorran after the keeper, crying, flop him, ftop him,that i may be revenged on the rogue, fhe otherne’er minding the outcry, ran daring up and downas if his wits had liolen away from him, and he in.putfuit of them To conclude, the oarber at lafti'eized him, and having recovered his c'oth, andmade him pay for lhaving, he was dilmilt with akick cr two in the backfide, the barber net fuller¬ing him to fpeak a word in his own defence.Thus freeing myfdf, I went to take the countryair, when happily I met with my two old comrades.v rr 7-The next tavern was our council-chamber, and winewa: the'dict ator We there unanimohfly conclud¬ed it was a thing beneath us to pick up here and .there a cr;wn. but Medved to have at all, knowingthat a live hour-' adventure might m -ke u~ poflet->drs of 309I. ^ifh this rt (elution we v ent andbought us hordes, vjr ad thi i- quint / fur ourintended exp<.di;r>r. . b tinz ajl r ad, *nd well pre¬pared ,we toe«k ur It evrs of 1 ■ .ud n ) r h while.vVe uad not rid b- ve til’ sen : i den : baited :the hrfti-r kuo.vin mn and vdiat d/iigns i i ..dformerly beih floon, and imagining 1 w,--- fteeriug,the lame c u fe, wdipercd me in the ea,.. :itai ■ ehad - d lire to fpeak with me inftaatly : Lio myopporur itv.und t pretence ol loo ting to my h rfe,I went to the abl •. where he infornied no thatth re were three wh liin drinki g. that nex*' morn¬ing wou.'d travel hi'h a road, and that they h*d agreat charge with riend l thankeu bini bkh.inghim come to my chamber at night, where I won ctdi'courfe farther with him: then he gave me afu .lunar y account or ad; and nf.er p-'-mite? to kinoof reward if we profpered,, we betook, 'ourfsives to’otrr refi:. 'n the nf.rnirr. very ermly we called forour horles and rid in tiie ro.,d r-nugh which thr.iethree travellers were to pafs, wncre ve pie. :ed our-lelves v:ry conveniently. About three hours after,we could dilcern them at a didance; and by thetime we had made curie!ye ready, they were athand. Jutt at the bottom of a fmali hill, we bidthem hand : they afked us to what intent: we toldthem, that we were younger brothers, and wantedmoney, and therefore mull borrow feme of themeWith that they ail iri an inftant drew iheir pfltolsbut we being ready provided with our piftols, firedat them, and they again at u-s: we were all at level-coil, and very equally matched ; the fecond Ihotkiked my horie, and a fourth bereaved one of mycon.'arTes of life; tbe'thirci rogue ran away Beinarin a labyrinth of nerplexry* I thought it rhe belt¬way to fell my life at as dear a rate as f c. ulal(knowing very well, that if I was taken f Ihoulct b£'hanged ) I tought with rry fwofd as lor g as Icould ftand upon my legs, wounding bo h them andtitheir horfes ; but at laftone ot them uhhappi ly raw*'me through the fword hard, and thereupon 1 was..dif rrued I was cari’ied by them before the next.Juftice of IJeace, and bv him was committed Ecou.d not new expeft any thing but death ; bur thennext news I heard was, that 1 mud be removed toNewgate, there being other things to be alledt-ed tomy charge l was therefore mounted in oider to*my removal, but very badiy mounted, being beundothereunto, and pinioned. As fotn as the keeperlaw me leaping for joy, O lir, are you come again iwe will take care of you no-v ; and fo without mere iado, he confined nire clofe prifoner to ?> dungeon.Appearing at the next Kefiions, and feeing fo::many of my adverfiries ready to give in their evi¬dence againlt me, I concluded myftlf a loft man ; .my very countenance betrayed both my thoughts■of guilt and defpair. in fhorr, I received fentenccof death to be .banned at Tyburn by the neck till Iwas dead: I thought thefe fad tidings would pre-.fently have, deprived me of life and fo have favedthe hangman the labour. All the way I went backto Newgate, I fancied nothing but gibbets flood inmy way ; and I favv no other trades but cord-wind¬ers. Being entered the prilon, Twas forthwith putinto a dungeon, and laden with {hackles. I hadnot been many hours there, before a charitablephyfician of the foul, I mean a minifter, came tovifit me-, who advifed me to repent, fince it washigh time; and endeavouring to difburthen myconfidence, by extracting from me a general inge¬nious capfeffion of what crimes i had committed'.Finding this perRm to have no other defign, butmerely for my foul’s fake, I dlfiecled the -actions ofmy whale iite, not omitting any thing that mightbe accounted finful. Fie was amazed to hear iuchnotorious roguery in ore man, and (q young; where¬fore, before he applied any cordial, he acjminiftredhis corroiives, and fo thoroughly fearced every cor¬ner cf my heart, that there was nothing hid fromhim. In the firft place, he made me fenfible of thewicked refs of my life, and that every, nay, the leaftevil action, deferved the lofs of eternal happinefs,and irsftead thereof, torments everhfting and into¬lerable It will take too much time to give an ac¬count of every thing this pious man allecl^ed formy information, contritiofi, and confolatian : fo effeciuaily and powerfully he delivered his divinemdTage, that the obduratenefs of my heart was ableto hold out no longer, but melting into tears, waswilling to have its hiutinels broken by the hammerof Sacred Writ. Finding me in fo good a temper,he left me to God and myfelf, for the perfecting ofthat work he had fo hopefully and iuccei'sfully be¬gun.From the time of my condemnation till Mondaymorning i flept not, neither did I eat or drink :then did I hear my palling bell (having the day be¬fore heard my funeral ierraon) every ftroke mc-theught carried my foul one degree higher, beingconfident I made my peace above. WhiUi l wasin the depth of meditation, and my foul breathingout this itiort ejaculation :If there no hope no<w cf reliefs' In this extremity ;Mercy ere nctu hath fav d a thief.And may do as much for me ;Behold a friend came to me (that never vifited meduring my iarprifonment) but now in the time of^—nr-)—   —; rneed brought me a reprieve : when I lookAl thereJon at fird, I couid not believe my own evry: 1thought i dreamed, or that grief had i'o dilirafteme, ae that f imagined things that were not. LVifriend at length cleared up my doubts ; but J i-haftcli v. u this tor a truth, iknew riot whether I hab*. 'I cc pt of this lite pref rviog courtelV ; for methought l had fn veil fettled my eternal, concernsas ttiat I had nothing <-lie to do but <. ieAbout a foiti ight alter, I was lent on boa d, irorder to my transportation ; my f ntence of dcUb ing converted in 0 a feve r years baniflauient.me n after beiiis; on board, v, e let fail btr hnot been our above five days, before cur veflel fp; una leak; and after a>pp!ying curfelves to the pan pwi bout any manner of iuccels, we all committed]ourfelves to toe mercy of the waves, in the ionboat, driving we knew not whether. After benthe fport of the lea about two days, in the mpft perii ius In union, we at lenth got fight of a v IT:bound for the Canaries, which with great difficu tfor;unate y came up with us, and took us on board:Misfortune did not yet feem tired of purfuirg usjfor the vers next night after our deliverance, a tnofiterrible fterro arote, vvldclt before morning camieofaway our bowfprit and mizen, together with thrudd. r; which render ing her unmanageable, afttbeating up and down four days and as many nights]file at length ftruck upon home prodigious rockswhich however not being fituated far from fhore, wjprovidentially efcaped with cur lives ; and diredfeour courfe to a Imall houfe we perceived a: a diltance : the matter of which (treated us very kind)ly) was captain of a final! veflel that lay at Herjinnbana, a finail diftance from where we were (hip iwrecked ; who being bound to the Indies, alked mwhether i would go with him, to which i conientedand in a few days we fet fail for our intended voy■e. An hcur before df'.y, we left the port, andii!ed along the coalt before the wind ; ab .«ut noonie difcerned three veflels, wher upon we gave thempale : in lefs than two hours we got up to them,tod then we could eafi y perceive that they were'I ufkilh galleys ; whereof we were no fooner afihr-d, but we betook -ourfeives to flight, making toimd with all (peed poflible. The lurks under-pnding cur<ietign, preiently hoilted up all theirvliils, and having the wind favourable, bore up fo|lofe, that they difcharged tluir ordnance on us,jfherewi' h they killed tight of our men, and i’o bat-lered our (hip, that we were forced to throw a■jreat quantity of cur lading over-board. iheTurks in the mean while loit no time, but grappledis; and we, knowing that on our valour and cou¬rage depended our lives, or lofs of libery, rdoived|o fight ic out. With this determination we boardedi>ne of them, but being overpowered with numbers,and fo overprefi: and wearied, that we defifted from•(making any further reixtlance : for of 35 men .- e■bad at firl!:, we on;y had remaining to, whereof twoIdied the next day, whom the Turks cut in xiuartersand hung at them main-yards, as a tign or victory,paing taken, we were carried to a town calledJMccah. We were chained all together, and in thatirnanner were we-led in triumph j and as we palledalong, we had our heads walked with women’s role-'water, thrown down upon us from balconies,.withJcther filth, in derifion and contempt of the name ofIChnftian Having tired themfelves in tormenting:us, bound as we were, they clapped us into a dun-jgeon, where we remained 21 oays, expofed to allkind of rniiery, having no other provifion allowedjus than a littte rice and water, which was diftribut-(cd to us every morning : for variety fake, we had(fome times a fmall quantity of peas foaked in wa¬iter. Being tired of punilhing, they brought as intothe market-place, and put u? up far fale. An uricicms Jew taking a fancy to I was accordii'purchaied ; cut by a cunning ifata *m, gt5t mmrtiealed to a Chriftian at heart (thcuoh uui er#.'difguife of a Grecian,) when L 01 ce more eni b!lffcdr the hah rndies with my new matterSoon after we fet fail we were becalmed, kaijltnot the leaf! breeze of wind, the weather wlitfbeing exceeding hot and dultry : at length vriveain Swaliey-Rcad, where was rich eg anlifh veflel ; there we cail anchor The Engl Lmen came of u-, whom our captain welco ied vli'the belt of hi- entertainment 1 cou d not forHttembracing my dear c untry.nen, fhtwing thenj Imatty demonltrations of jcy, that by their loc®they teemed to queftion whether 1 was in my nrwits. Their mate calling me afide, atked me hiI came to be engaged in 'his veff 1 ? and h-.-w hilince i came from England? to all wh ch l gfhim tansfadtory anfwers; and in fine, I to d hi* Ihad a great deiire to fee England again, and to t !end dclired him to make ule of what; interetf tcould, to remove me into their'fliip : he promt Ihe would, and accordingly, giving a prdent to «icap:a n, he prevailed upon him to let me.go.three days tiine we fet fail from S'-valley•Is.oliheering our courfe from thenc; all along the c<Jlof India, Decan, and Malabar. I knew' not whitftlth y intended, neither did 1 care now, as think.fimynelf fafe, being among friendsSeven days from our fatiing from Svvalley-rob■we came to an anchor at Delyn, a town of the Mlabars: We durit not land, the people being |treacherous and bloody ; yet we fullered themicome aboard us in their fmall canoes, Idling tor a|trifles, Cocoa-nut, Jacks, Green-pepper, Indi^peas, Eggs, and the nice. Thefe Mahibars are co*black, well-limbrd, their hair long and curled ■, 1icut their heads they r>idy tie a fmaM p'^ce of linen,-lut about their bodies* nothing but a li tie c'oth,I'hich covers their fee rets. Notwithftnn Ting theiryuelty and inhumanity, \ve manned out our lon|»-:oat, and fifteen, whereof I was one, went afhore,carrying forae mufqucts and fwords with us, fafpec-jitg the worit: landing, they fled from us, but notjithout fending goodTtore of poifoned arrows andlarts ainonn us. We returned to our fhip, finding;! no way fafe to fray here longer Next morningoifiiag fail, vre came to Canavaf, where we metith people more civil, whereupon w:e landed ; andeceiving things from the inhabitants of confider-jbie value, for toys and trifles we gave them in lieu,re refoived to flay here a while. The poor fort ofpefe people have nothing but a fmall veil over thtfrrivates, ’.'holly naked elfewhere ; which veil orap the women in courtefy will turn afide, and fhewman their pudenda, by way of gratitude for anyivour received. Thev have a ftrange cuftom injt their marriages, ofcferved among them by thejigheft to the loweft: whofo marrieth, is not tojave the tirh night’s embraces with his bride, butvery well contented to beftow her maidenhead onie Bramini or Priefr, who do not always enjoy it,eing glutted with iuch frequent offerings, andtereloie will many times fell them to ftrngers.iuch a proflrr I had once made me, and with fliameImuft cocfefs I cii ! accept it, forgetting thole vowsmade in Newgate, to live a mote pirns, ftriff, and■ »ber life The bride that night was placed in onef their Fanes, as it is cuftomary, the Prieft or Bra¬un coming to her ; but inftead thereof, according» agreemtnt between the Prieft and me, 1 went:wondered to find her fo low of ftature, but I didot much matter it then, minding fomething elic ;hich having performed, I departed. The nexttorning I had a great defire to fee her, but wasamazed to find her fo yung, belehdng it impofiiM(though I knew tV contrary) a chi' ! (for t may fcall her, being hut f vev vem; of a^e could be c|pable of man’s reception at that fender age. 1 ftetjwards I was informed, >t '«as ufua! .r them £maTjt, To foon being ex'r«-m y faiacious and lechfrout, and as fit. nay, as prond to enjoy man at thaage, as Europeans at f urteen.So foon as we arrived (.which is a -cufloni thaufi- to all firangers, of what country foever) we hiprefented us choice of many virgins : our boatf,. a tchofing one he fancied, f >r a fmail price, iheguidtihim to a lodging, where, if he would have haid Jlong, {he would have performed his dcmdlic affaiilias well at board as bed (dichvrging her duiy. veipflnctually: but ho th..t undertakes any i'icn t. imu ft be very wary tiiat he he pet familiar with ;uijother woman, left that (be with whom he hath, coltrailed himfelf for lueh a tune, doth recomp'n jthis inconftancy with mortal poifon At his depwture, her wages mwit be paid to her parents, wtfJreturns then vifii much j y, and they receive h|with as much credit and uiuntation 'lit chieMamong them hold-it a very great courtefy, if awone will fave them the labour pain and trouble, ||accepting the hymeneal rites of his bride.After leaving Canavar we touched at Zeylo^iand byam, and then fttered cur courfe for Bantanijfbut being much fir.'timed by the way for ward ifrefh water, we were c^mpilled to mak- up to t|lirft land we deferied Hiough the ■ arkneis of tjnight b imbed our eyes from inch diicovefies, yjflames of fire n< t far uittant from us, gave us pertjbinttlligerce that land was n =t far off. t hat niai.we call a; chor, feaitng we might run foul of foitirock or fheif i in the morning we (aw a large tr)of land before us, not knowing what place it ftiotl!be. Our captain comaitmdeU the long-boat to I( *9 )■manned out, to procure water, if and rood werethere: among the reft I went for one Coming onfhore, and feeing this hill now and then belch nutflames, by my perfuafions l made my fellow? forgetfor a time their errand they came about, to makefeme inquifition into this miracle of nature : where-j upon we all refolved to afeend the hill, and withI much difficulty we came (o nigh the top, that we; heard a moft hideous nnife proceeding from theJ concave thereof, lb terrible it was. that we nowbegan to condemn our rafh attempt, and ftooJ at aconvenient difiance, judging it the only medium ofour (afety. Whi:ft we were thus in a delirium, notknowing what was the belt to be done, the moun-. tain was inftantly poffelTed with an ague-fit, and| afterwards vomiting up fmoke and ^'tones into thej air ^which immediately after fell down in a fhow’erI upon our heads) we thought we cou'd not efcape• without a miracle ; and wnilft we were all ftriving■ v hich way with greateft (xp'diition we might efehewtl; •. a!. (;, theie role in the- midlt of us fuch an| heap of earth, aihes, and fire, as that all feemed asio many moveable burning beacons; ana withoutany thoughts of helping each other, every one en¬deavoured to fiecure him e f; and though L was theJ la ft in the compau. yet in this expedition it was. much available to me; for my companions makingj more haile than good ipeed, tumbling down the hill. brfore me, fell feverai of them together, whichj blocks lying in mv way,'obftru(fted my pafiage, and, io laved the breaking of my neck, which otherwife-would have been inevitable In this prodigiousconflnft, moft of us loft the hair of our heads,not without receiving ieveral batteries upon theout-works of our bodies. At firft light we weremuch afraid, but the confequence made it appearwe were not more afraid than hurt. We madea ihift to crawl down the reft of the way, and hav-i-I 20 )itig fixed our unadvifed feet on the bottom of t?mountain, ire refoived we would n *ver again p ydearlv for ou curi-tfity s but forthwith went ifearch of feme 'pring, that might f rve as wellquench oi.ir clo’hes as our thirfb What we foup!|for wTe quick’y feund ; and fo filling our ofles,made what halle we c uld aboard he captai Iand the reft fto d amazed to f e us look fo g' altlyfand were very impatient "to kno w, at was tlimatter with us : we told th in iuccinctly what hahappened, and what great dangers we un Vrwentlinflead cf pitying ns4 tiiey only hug*ajd arms fcbeing fuch adventurous fools Having furnifneourfelves with what we wanted, we ter tail again fclBantam, wh re we fafely arrived in a (hort timeAs foon as fVe came into the harb' ur bef re Bar iftam, we went afhore to acquaint th-r Prefident wh?Hwe were, and by what authority we came thither t!Jtraffic, being empowred by the Baft Indii Compart]We were received with much demonflrations ' 1joy, and nobly feafted for three days togethera work’s*ime I learned by obfervation the cuflomiof the country, and manner of trading, our met Ichant taking up goods daily and fending them aboard, without giving pref nt fatisfaftion ; it beinijfufficient that he belorrged m luch a fhip and thefore;muff pay before he goes, othenvife the k>nwill arreit the fhip, compelling him to make relltution or payment One time i met with a Bannyan, or China merchant whom I cbftrved to havbox. full of p'recious flones: l could not Peep ftthinking how fhould make myfelf a partner withim : at laft I han-.yaered out this inventionclothed myfelf in Indian filk, according to the cutom of the country, and difcoloured my face, aclapped a black patch upon- one of my eyds.this equipage I addreft myfelf to this Bannyan, whprefently laid open his trealuro to my view. I w#- ( 21 )i long in chnfmg whaf I efteemcd as moft valu-c; and derpan ing of him the price, wc agreedfliould have ehher lb many pieces of Englilhd, within two days or eife take his choice of,at commodities I had aboard We made a fiiiftunderitand each other’s broken expreflions ; andwithout the leaf); fufpicion of my treachery, de-ered t ie ftones into my hands. Taking otF myguife I went inftant.'y aboard, and hid what Id cheated the Barmyan of (which I might eafilyfor the fmalinefs of its hu!k) in the hold of ourjp, refoiving not to go a(hore yet a vvhi e. "liep of payment being com'*, aad the Bannyan notere finding me on land, came aboard of our fhip,;ere by figns he made known to our captain hisand — That a merchant belonging to his Ihip hadjaght commodities of him. and promifed to payn on that day. Our captain replied,. That heIdly believed he was miftaken (as knowing whatownodities the merchants belonging properly cof lhip had bought) aid therefore tohl him, he\ make enquiry elfewhere for fatisfaftion. Thenyan ftiil peidifted, alledging he was not mifta-jn, and that he was confident, if he might have afit of ail the men he c uld out of them feledf theicerned perfon - Hereupon the captain orderedto be all called aloft, which was Ipeedily perfor-d He went all round, viewing every man par-ilarly, and very hee fully; at lalt he came to me,1 there made a ftand, i which had like to havede my. heart ftart out of my breaft-:) he lookedin me on thisjide, and on the other fide, and totruly, on eves y fi le ; and having thoroughlyd me, he ran to our captain, laying, that fhouldthe man (pointing to me) but that he is a white,n, and hath two fees (that is, two eyes.) Where-an 1 was ftrictly examined ; but for all his lifting» I would not let drep any thing of a confefBon(22 )that fhould convift me of guilt;h lifilisd 1but withup hands and eyes to heaven, 1 utterly denisever I faw this man, or ever had any dealing »him. In fhort the Bannyan, lince he could nolipofitivdy l was the man, was riif’miffed, not wit 1 fa folemn vow he would be revenged of-us all in>neral; and I was cleared of-he indift rent.The next day, a great many of ou~ men wenfhore. and going imo-China-row, ^a ftrerl fo cdpin Bantam) to drink punch, a great crew of Ini}and Chinefe (headed by this .Sat ny nj fellthem, killing whom they could, not directingrevenge upon any particular perlbn, (whichcall Running a Muck:) So hot and iliarp wasconfluft, that many were killed on both fides,tf)more wi unded. flits accident alarmed the wtown, hut moft efpecially the Englifli there rr litbut at laft, with much ado. this grand uproarhcalmed. It was my good for une that I was sthen among them otherwife I might have Imade a facrifice among the reft of my fellows; tI " 'fuchaaoe a tacnnce among tne reir or my icuows, >was pre-infarmed that fuch broils are ufual t 3uch occasions, wherefore I kept myielf ouatharm’s-way for that time.But not long after, thinking their maliceblown over, I went aftiore and walking with otBof our fhip’s crew, in the fame Row, ^where itof our men ufed to refort) a ftllow came to :>with this Bannyan 1 cheated, and. both of 11with Creaks, (a kind of dagger of about a tootwhalf long* would have ftabbed me had not my(flows prevented them, bv ft- iking up their heelsjiafterwards, with their own Criafes, ftaboed tto thf heart After this we could walk very q?’Jy, without any difturbance, going any where i iout danger.I never came nfhore but I drank pretty free) •punch, .arrack, &c, which was brought in |ii 23 ;• liina jugs, holdins; at leaft two quarts; with everyneb jug th?re was brcu^ht in a dilli of fweetmrats.or whicix we paid a ihiHing Engiifh; and if youailed for another jug, you paid no more, unlds alift; ufhered it in.. One houfe efpecially I much frequented, for then'ian woman’s lake that kept it; for though *het*as black, or rather tawny, ytt fhe was well-fea-ured and well-formed, haring long black hair,when fhe untied the trefles; hanging down to heregs. She from the firft (hewed me as much ktnd-tef;, as could be expected from that lump of bar-tarifm; and i could difcern her inclinations, but.Tet it went againft my ftomach to yield to her mo-ions. However, ihe continued ner love to me, notening me p,y for anything [ called for : and when:here vvas^no orctffiiy of being aboard, Ihe wouldn a m nner make me lie in her houfe (which asthe^r houfe' common’y are, had hur one ftory :) thebeds thty ufe are a k nd of hard quilt1, for werethey foft the hotnefs of the climate wou'd cauiethem to be very detfruftive to man’s body, evenmelting his very reins. Gold and jewels fhe hadgreat quantity, with an houfe richly furniihed'afterthe Indian fa'hion For this conlideration, I per-fu tded nyfelf to mary her , and with feveral argu¬ments adeuged, I gained fo much conqueft overmyfelf, that I could kils her without dilgorgingmyfclf; and by accuftondng myft ly to her company,methought I began o take fome delight in it Bydegrees, intereft fo overpowered me, that'I refolvedto marry her. Having one ni,;ht (lying therej fe-rioufly confidered of my re ohuion and liking itindifferent well, I fell afl ep ; but wondered whenI awaked, to lee a thin? lie by me all black Itfefms fhe couid hold out no longer : I mended tofive from her, but ihe held me f-ft in her arms,ufing what rhetoric fhe could to perfuade me to the)Q( 24contrary. I afked her what Ihe m -ant ? Shemev in a little broken Englifh Ihe had got, that lit \would money me (marry me The meant : £y, nnfney me, faid I, that I dke well: but without it, 1the devil have married her forme. I afk'd h|hfeveral queftions, to which Ihe. gave me fatisf dlioCoiand ! enjoined her feveral things, which Ihe readiihcdnditioned tor whereupon I gave her the fir :fruits of her defires.intercft fo blinded my reafon, that I went infhntHly to n>y captain, a id gave him information of milproceedings, defirm" h" cor lent in the marrying thlJIndian, alledging how ajv, nrag>ous it ivould be t 1me. Be granted my requ^ft. upon my earneft irrn)portunity; and being dihinlTed from Ins fervice, w*-were married by an Englilh prieft, Ihe renouncin iiher Paganifm.What money was got by my wife’s trade, I laicout in fuch commodities the country afforded ; aCalicoes, Pepper, Indigo, Green Ginger, &c. amifold them ihamediately to the (hips lying in the hardhour, doubling what I laid du : to that in a fhortime, I found my ftoclc to increafe beyond expec-:tatlon. Such fatisfaddion my oLck received from'me, that ihe thought Ihe could not do enough tcpleafe me, I was an ablolme monarch in my fami¬ly ; fhe and herfervants willingly cordefcending tosbe my valTals: yet though I thus enjoyed the pre¬rogative of an hufbanu, yet I did not lord it tootmuch; which won fo much upon my wife’s affec¬tions and thofe that were concerned with her, that:as foon as I defired any thing, it was immediatelyperformed, with much alacrity and expedition ; fothat I could now confider myfelf completely happy.FINIS.