THEMirror of Wit:ANDUniversal Jester.CONTAININGWitty and Entertaining|[L .R Stories & Anecdotes,rtiEMirror of Wit:*-rT. A Scotc'itnsm an Irifliman were Ictpinjtogether at an inn ; the weathej behig rather wa«nithe Scotchman, io l\i' Geep put hi* leg out-over thbed- a traveller, in palTI'g ttie room-door, faw hinin tins firvation, and havmg a mmd for a frob.c. gentl;fixed a fpur upon the cotcl rorn’: lieel- who diawinbit leg in*o the bed, fo d.'fturbsd his contpauion thebe exclaimed, Arrah. my dear honey, have a care ryour j reat toe, for you ivave forgot to cut your oailI belair. The Scotchman being found afhep aikfometimst, perhaps, difeurbed with company in thnextroom dill t -pt fcraiching po <r '’eague till hipatience being quite *pent. he fuccecd.*! in roufinthe Scotchman, wi o being fuiprifed at findingfpur on his heel loudly txc’aimed. Confound thhoftler. he’s ta’cn my boots iff ail night, and left oone of the fpurt!2- Dr. c''RAXLitt, vr' en lad in England, relateen obf r ation of his ne m fe> van’, when the. l>wa* making the tour of IfJcrb^fh're, Laucaihire, &-Everv thing, mafT^ work in thi, country: wa-cr woijwind work, fnioke work man work, bullock woohorfc work, afs work; every thing work here but t>hog! he eat, he dri, k. he fl cp. he do nothing all hajiithe hog b* the oi ly gentleman io England.3. \ negro in J maica was tried for theft, atfenterced to be flogged He begged to be heardbts own defence; which being grafted, He xficiIf whit* wan buy tolen good, why he no be( 3 )The Jaiic anf#erd, So he w<'uld. Djr#. den, is tnjrniaffa. replied Mungo, he buy rolen good, he knewsic to!en, and yet he buy me.4. \ gentleman once afleed Sir Richard Steel whythe bifli his countrymen, were fo prone to make bulls.Indeed, faid the knight, I fuppofc it is ovring to fomtquality m the foil; for I rea'ly r ink if an E’gliftmanwa- born in Ireland, he would make as many bull* asan Irifhman !5 A Dublin alderman l aving occalion to ride fomamile* out of town, on his return tlic nest dav, ex¬claimed to a f-iend. who accompanied him, How ifthi* ? Yefterday all the miU-ftones were on my lefthand and to-day they are on my right!6. ^n frifh recruit being rebuked by the friy-antfor ftriking one of his comrades, I thought there wasno harm in i\ quoth Pat, as I had nothing in myhand but nr lift *7 * Venetian, as blundering at an Hibernian,was riding into the country, with his fervant behindhim on foot The hoi fe kicked the ralet. who, ina pafilm, threw a Rone at him, which hit his matteron the back. His matter looking back, chid him forwalking fo flow, f cannot walk fatter. fa;d he foryour horfe ha« given me a kick. Then, faid hi. matter,I <hall pav him as he deferves; for he has juft kickedne on the back !8, \n eccentric barber fame years ago ooened• (hop under the walls of the KingVBench nnfm The windows being br-len when he entered wi*h it,be mended them with paper, on which he wrot* thwwords, “ Share fora penny,” with tie ufual invitationtoC 4 )to cnftomers; and over »he doer was fcrgsvled til#following lines:Here lives Jemmy Wright,Shaves ss well as any man in England,Alotofl—not quite. sFoote, who loved any thing eccentric, obfemng theliifeription*. and hi ping to ex radl fomc wit front theauthor, whom he juftlv concluded to be a »erv oddoharacler, he pulled off his hat. ar-4 thrufling i i» iieadthrough one of the paper, panes, called out. Is JemmyWright at home? The Ba b-r imrm Utafelv forced hisown head through another pane, into the ftreet, andreplied. No, Sir. he ha‘ juft pnpt out'—Foot laughedheartily at the Baiber, and gave him a guinea.9. Bea Johnfon being owing a V'intner fome' money,refrained his boufe; the Vintner netting him bydtance, demanded payment; but, at the fame time,told him, if he would cotr.e to hi houfe. and anfwlrhim four queftions, he would forgive him the debt.—Ben verv gladdlv agreed, and went at the t me ap¬pointed called for a bottle of clarei and drank to theVintner praifing the wme a’ a great rate Say*the Vintner, This is not our buftn 6. Mr. Jo'nnf-n ;you muft anfwer me my four queftionst, orclfe pay memy money: or go to jail (for he haci got two bad ft*waiting at tbe door to ai red him.) Pi ay, favs B?n,propsife them. Ti>en faw the Vintner. I ell rne,ift. What plcafrs God ? 2tllv Wi af pleafcvthe devil?gdlv, 'What bed pleafes the worlo ? arsd, laftly, What fheft oleafes me? Well, then, faid Ben,G. D i« bed r>lea«’d when man forlpkes his fin;The Devil’s heft pleas’d when man delight* tlie;«in:The world’- b. ft plea’d when you do diavrgood wine? And you 11 be pleac*d when I do pay tor min&.The Vin'ner wa fit’- fi d. gave Ben a receipt ur/olt,tnd a bjttl* pf claret to the bargain.(5) ‘ - /: t ic. A. French writer co' a’e« an aecf'ttnt of Wa((jliipwreek in tl.ef" w rds —^uving arriTed st anilmltnown regii n, I travelled eleven hours withoutjiifer'veijng t e 'eaft nfanv human being; at laft•'perceived, tom1 great jov a wrttcli fufpetrded oni i-ibhet ' By the grace of heaven, 1 exclaimed. I am’ low in a civirztd c< u try 1,t T, \« the late king of Pruflia wa.* one day rt^'err-1 ;ng his troop-, he r bferved a 1 ioier w o had hi- 'acet fnuc" c!i figured with fcais. he walkea up to im,an,! allied uim at w at publK«ho»f'- he fyt thofe fearsfTo winch the foldier replied. PI cafe vour Mayfly;’ it was at a place 'ear Vlackf-*n (a town in Si-cGa*:near which the king 1 ft a gr^ at battle) where yourii IMaj fly paid the rtek <ning.]!t 2. Ti e well-known Mr Pnco kept a get-down,;©r fhop. at Ga’crvta where be fold a gun to an ri^i-i man. who f'on returned witir it. complaining thattrthe barrel was much bent. Is it? fuaP.ice: "hen,<t I ought to have charged thee more for it Why fo ?fffeid therother. B.-caufe tirefe pieces are confliudled1' for /hooting round a coi ner If that is tr.e cafe, fays||Paddy, then ! inufl on reteining my purchafe.\ Pin fic'an in IC wcafile being fnmmoned'“'to give evidence sgainfl a grave-digger, for blundersihe had commiuc.d through di unkciincfs. dwelt fo muchon the poor fellow's mifcondudl as to raife his choler,and draw from him the following ret> rt: Upon myfoul. Sir. this is very ungenerous of you, to bs fo eagerto lay open all my blunders, when ! have fo often;fo vary <jf,en covered yours, mafler dcflor.id. Scj’-cnt criiling a Vohinteer/•-.orps, sva,s* J?grti>iarly fgvee on a gentleman, whom he did notr fa* id tax as ama?big!y ftupid atwi awkward. Ihe1.. v»-floruit prumVrd. an<3 wa' b^ginring to rrply.-wfrea.. the Serjeant ftopp. d hinv bv txelaimi^g H. Id vourtongue fir^ a fjldisr is only alfc-wed tn«pen his mou1*twice in the ra le once when his name is called, andagain to bite -f the end of his cartridge.1.5- As Ben Johnfon (who was a bricklayer beforei be tar ed poet) was one morning going early to l-iswrork with hi? tools in H? hards, hr was f-en bya young lady, who was up fooner it n ordinary,breat ing the fiifh air <>ur /•? her chambvr-windcw.—Sne was of a gav difp fiiion. and thi' king to be: merry with the.bricklayer, called to him, and faid," By line and rule, works many a fool,Good-morrow Mr. Bricklayer.f Ben no fooner turned his eyes and faw her, but hei anfwercd,In C!l: and fc rlet walks many a harlot,Good-morrow, Madam.16. When the duke of O' mond, whofe family name' Was Bu'ler, went osier as Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland,the veflV.I was driven b? ft refs of weather into theIde of Man, wterclvs Grace wa? bofpitably entcr-' tained by the Curate of the place, named Jofcph —The p^afantnefs of his landlord induced the duke to■ enquire into his circumflances, ana finding that theywere but fcanty, he prowiifed to provide for him as' foon a' he fcould be fettled in the Viceroy ftp—Jofeph waited many months in hopes cf heating front■his patron, hut being disappointed, he ref’iv d to toosrer to Dublin, to remind him of hi? promife.—Dtfpairing of gaining acre's to the duke, he waredupon Dean Swift. ai.d aiked his pcrniifTnn io prec-cltftt11 the cathedral the next Sunda' 'The VJean. »]«•'a lighted v/if lit* conrerfation, ^dT« hi* corkn —«Phe Lord-Lieutenant with his court were a!) at church,:imd fat oppofite to the pulpit. None of them * fcd'tnv recollection of Jnfcpn fill after narairg his tixt^> tftvch was in 6enefi' xl. 23 k‘ Yet did not the chief! Bir.ltr remember .J ifcpli, but forgot him.” From*1 which he made fo pointed an allufion to ti e duke andf his entertainment in the Ifle of >3anv that his featurest were rrcognifed; and when the ftrmon was done, het was ineited *0 the caftle, and a good living prorided'f for him.17. The following Epitaph is engraven on a tombthe Church-yard of Barron-on-Soar Leiccftcrfhire.Here in this grave there lies a Cave :We call a cave a grave.If cave be grave, and grave cave,Then, reader, judge, I crave,Whether dotn Cave lie here in grava,Or grace here lie in Cave ?If grave in Cave here buried lie,Then grave, where is thy victory ?Go, reader, and report here lies a Cave,Who conquers death, and buries bis own gra#e.18. Dr. Young was once-in a party of pleafurewith a few ladies, going up by water to Vauxhall ;and he amufrd them with a tune on the German flute.Behind him feveral officers were alfo in & boat rowingfor the fame.place, and foon came elong-Gde the boatin which were the doflor a^d hit party. The doctor,who was never conceited of ids piaving, put v.p his flut«-eti their appr’ach. Ot • >f the < ffieers inflaiuly afksdwi y he eta fed to play, or put up bis flute. ?or thefame reafon, faid i.e that I took it ois*.— to pleafemylelf. The foa of Mars very pertmpvcrily rtjoined.(S )if ne did not inftantfy take oaf fw fifffe ardcontinue his nuifie. h« woulci throw him into the Tame*.The dodW, in order to allay the fears of the taaies,pocketed the infult, and eontinttcd to play all the waytip the river. During the evening, however, heobfervec the cffictr by him felt in one of tlie Wolki,atid making up to hint, faid, with great c-oinefi.It was. Sir to avoid interrupting the harmony eitherof niy comparry or your's, that • complied wth youranogant demand in the boat; but thai you msfy knowcourage, may be found undei a b'afk coat »; well astinder a red one. i exptifl that you w'ul meet meto-morrow-morning ar a certain place, without aryfecond, the quarrel bsjrg entire'v entrl nous.—The doctor tartiier covenanted ti at the tfiuir thouldbe decidea by fwords. To all thtfe condition? thetfficci fTcnted he duelhfls met; but tl^ moment.the officer took the ground., ihf dodlor r-ulled outa horle-piftol. A hat' faid the rfficc* do you u tendto afldffinate me?—\To. replied tlie dodliir ; but youfhall inftantlv put up vour fword and dance a minuet,otherwife you aii a devd man ! ' he tfficer benan toblufter, but the d« 6lor was .efoltrt, and he wasobliged to comply. New fa'd Y ung. you f icedms to play agairvft my wiH, and l have macle yi udance againA your’s: we aie therefore again on a level,and whatever other »’»usfa£l:on ■?< u may require, i amready to give it. The office) ackn<!wledgta bis error,and the affair terminated in a lafting frienehi'p.1y. A perfon in a company roiling aga'nfl a ger tie-man lately e>ecea1ed, one- of them, to vindicate him,faid. he thc-ught him not fo verv bad as he bad beenreprefented; adding. To ntv certain knowledge. Sir,fte vra"' very charitable; and 31.ari*y, you kiiow, c vosa mttlu'uce, of (Itis. Ves, Sir. fo it would require,faid the other, for lie hud a mulv^uo'c to cover.20- TThcnC 9 )20. When FV>3te wai at %a!t-hji!, he dined at th*:j Siftie , and when the landlo d. produced tnc b^l,(' w icli was ex rbitant. Foote a/ked him his name.—if Partridge, an’c pleafe au, fiid lie.— Partridge’ re-plxd Foote it (hmid have been Woodcock, by tit*length of your Sill.?. t. JJed vmter was often very poor, and, beingfiiil ntorc siegiigent than poor, was csreiefs about hisdrefs. A friend overtaking him one day in the ftreet,fa:d to him. Why, Ned ! are you not nftiamed tovali; the ftreets with twenty noies in your ftockings ?{ Why don’t you get tlicm mended? No, my friend,laid Ned, I am above it; e^d, if you have the prideof a gentleman, you will adt like me, and walk withi twenty ho’es rather than have one darn. How, how!replied the other How the deuce do you mike that3 •u>? Why, replied Ned, a hole is the accident of; the day, but a darn is premeditated porerty.22. Two petfons riding from Shipton to Burford,3 end feeing a miller riding fofily before them on hisi lacks, were rcfolved to pafs a j .lu with him; fo they* w«nt one on each fids, faying, vJiilcr, now tell us,1 whether thou art more knave than fool ? Truly, faid- he, 1 don’t know whict* I am moil, but I beiicsra 1 am' between both.2J. An officer of a (hip whieh was lying at Spit-beaa, having occafion to fena a meffage to his country-I houfe, c.ifpatched a failor on horfe-back with a letter;1 won, aftci delivering it, and being rcfielhed and theI ho le fed, went to the flab'e to prepare for his return.'! by flander ibf rved to iiim. ^that lie was puttingthe hinu part of the faddk before ; to which the failcu-!j ' replico, tioW ^ vOU auow wnicn way 1 am goingI; to ride?Henry* r( 10 )24- Henry t!ie 4‘li. <’f '’raoce beint! out cne clayon y hu'itin^-maicn,! ft nisparty, and wa* 'idirR alone.Obierring a country fdl w ftand’ng upon a pa’.c,apparei tly on the wucc i, he afkcd him wnat he wail‘> king for ? * am 5 me here, fay he, to fea the king.Get up benind me. rf plied the mens ch. ai d i willfoon concufl v .u to the p ace wheioyoumay fee h.im.Hodge, without any fcruple. ninunted. but a= th.ywere riding along, he put this fagacious njeition tothe king : Ihey tell me he’s got a numner of lordswith him—how may one know which is he? T.e kingreplied, tnat he would be able to diflinguifli him byfeeing that all his attendai ts look 1 fFtheir hats, whiidhe himfelf remained covered. Shaft after tiny joinedthe hunt, vrhen all the circle wsic greatly lurprifedto fee ti e kinc? U oddly attended. Wi en they werect.itvcd, his Mgjtfty Uuning to the clown, afkrd himif lie could tell; whic i was the king ? I don t know,anfwcred he. but it mu ft be one of us two, for we’roboth got our hats on.25. Dr. Williamfon, Vicar of Moulton, in L’EcoIn-ftira. had a violent quarrel with one of hb parlfhoncrs,which was refented by the !»;‘er, wl ofe nutne wasHardy. On the fucceeding Sunday the Dr. preachedfrom the f 11 wing text, which he pronounced em¬phatically, with a fif* Scant dirrdlion of his eyes toHardy,—There is no fool like theb fool Hardy!”»6 It was cuftomary with M'arfhal B^fTompierrejwhen any h his foldiers were brought before him forheinous ffo• ces to fay to them — B'other, you or Iwill certainly be hanged! Which was a f fficientdenunciation of their fa e A fpv being difeoveredin his camp was addr.fT.d in this language , ar-d nextdav, a tie p> v jlt wa- carrvi' g the wretch to thegallows he n ff 1 tarneftly to fpeak with the Mai dial,aliedging teat tie had festewhat of impcrtance.t. com-jrnnU'( " )municate. The Mar/ha! being made aequiiti’.ed withijthis requefl, exclaimed, in ';is rough and Imftv manner.It is the way of all thcfe rafeah, when ordered forex-cution, to pretend fume frivolous (lory, merely toreprieve themfclv:s for a few moments-, iiowever,bring the cog hither. Being introduced, the Marftralefked him what he had to fay? Why. my Lord, faid! the ■ uiprit. w-ien fii ft 1 had the honour of your con¬st i verfation, you was obliging enough to fay. that eitherk | you or I ftmuld be hanged: Now I vt fh to know,w^etr ei it is your pleafure to be fo ; bi caufc. if vouwon’t, I muft, that’s all. The MarCial was fo plesftd.ith the fell /w’s hum ur, that he ordered hi.’, io beimmedia; ely nleafed.77. When General Lurgoyne was once at a P'^V',in Lancalhire, which was moft m fcrably aSed, heafked one of the performer* what was the name ofthe piece ? The Stage-Coach, Sir. replied Bulkin,bowinu *siy refp:ftfu!ly. Why then,faid theGcnc al.returning the bow with the urmofi gravity, you willgreatly oblige me by giving me early notice the nexttime it is performed, that 1 may be an outCds paffcngcr.28. It b:in£ proved on a trial at Guildhall, thata man’s name was reallv Inch, who pretended it wasLinch; l fee. faid the Judge, the old proverb is veri¬fied in this man, who being allowed an Inch, hastaken an L.19. On the derivation of the word Newt.The word explains itfclt without the muff.And the f< u- letters fpeak whence come* the N?wvFrom North E ft. ' eft. South, the f lu'.ion’s ma^e,Each quaiter gives account^of War and J'rlde,(1*)30. Spnvj>u on a Roving Young Man;Mv hie with plcatantrv was always fraught,Gaily i liv’d a' cafu and natu e taught.And wonder much that d'/atn. that tyrant grim,Snould think of me, that ncvsi thought ol him.31. A punfter going along H Ib-rro when a greatmob of fpc^lators was gathning to fee a inulciadtorpafs to hii execution at ’yburn, >died a genti-.niflr,wno was (landing in tije crowd, if iio knew tii« namecf the fellow who was geing to be hanged? WhoBnfwc^.d, It was one V wcl. Said the puuftu, Duyou know which of them it is. fur there ate fevcial ofthat name? No, replied the other, 1 do not. Well,laid tile wag, tf.is however is certain, and l am- very£iad of it, tnat it is neither U nor i. '$2. Mr. Behfley, before he went on she Bagel wasB capraln in me army. Unis cuy he met a ScorcAofficer, who l ad been in the fault rcglrtit-nt. I'h#letter was happy to meet u v old in -iTruti , but hs»Scoich p'ide made him alhaihed to b? fe-n with aComedian; he therefore hurried Mr. Bmiley intoan unfrequented coffee-houfe, where he alk.-d iiimvery ferim.flV Hr > could ye dif. rtce the corps byturning Play-adlor ? .Mr. Btnli.y replied, That heby no raeayis confidered it in that light; that, olnthe cuntrEry. a rcfpcdlable Adlor, who behaved withpropriety, was looked upon in the bed manner, andkip! the c.-mpaWy of tne U ft people. And what>msun faid sue other, do yiu get bv tins bufinel ofyour» ? now B"fweie< jMr. ii. get about a thoulanda vear A thoufadi j a-ycarl exclaimed the Scotchman,aftonifhed: Hat you ony vacancies in your corps?'33the ii\ Sailor being at a Quakers' meeting, heardread wa: balding tortu, fptui. wu-i greatvc!:c*( *3 )vehement:** atrainft the iil. c .nffquince of giving thelie io c nive’ lniion ; and there oie aiiviGtig^hdt wi.enany man tnld a taie not confident witn tiuth or pro-babiiiry, tne hearer Ihuilid only crv Twang! whichCeuld not irritate people to path n, liice c.-chog it a lie..Afrerwa'd* he dig> elud n.to the it'tv of ti.e muacleof five thoufitid being fed with five ioaves of bread kc*He told them that they were n it loch loavet as thafeuied now-a-cays. but weie an big a? m untanss !—At which the tar uttered with a 1- >uo voice. Twang 1What! favs the Quaker, dofl thou .iiiiik he nicn< iNo, fays Jack, but l am tldhkiug how big the overtwa> ti at baked them.34. Go, fnid a getulcmaft to his Iiiib fcrvant, andbring the psi cel 1 left at the ugn ct t e Fryin^Patt.Tire fervant roturned, and laid lie could net find outthe fign. The mailer, enraged, tie fired the feryantto follow him and. when they came to thchoofejbe exclaimed, Have you eyes . nui head you ftupiddoit! Ye*; dir. laid Pst; y-ti dc&red tMe to call £ttins figti of the Frying-Pan, but that i* :be Ftj iiig-Paaitfclf, winch you pci.it to.3J A Sailor meeting with an old n;. ffir.bte whohad become very pooi, aikid hiii: where he iiycd?—Where I live, laid ne, 1 don’t know j but i uai.-iiai **at Wap plug.36 Two Engliib cfficers, after a night’s lo Igingin tnt higtrlands of Scotland, found their clotr.es io*fefted with verfnin. One of them was- very bufy mtaking cfF the flrwcft Kind, which tne othtrmbfo vmgyo.ied out. Zounds! wnat are you doing? Let or fivfifecurc the aragoons. we Can take the foot at leduic.37. A young country girl in Lombardv ruurt;ngafter fier flte-afs, wuicti was iu i.aflc to git up to - crC ! 4 )Fiial, p {T*.-} a'^sn'limn'i oa t;,c road, who obfirvfngher cailed .'ur. Whence do roll c me, f-reef heart ?Fr m Viliejuff, Sir, (aid (he. Prom Vintjuiff faidthe gentleman; end do yon know the dau^h’er ofNichedas Gaillor. vt o live? ’.he- e ? Varv well, repinedthe g;irl. Be [j kind tlicn, faid he, a* to carry hera kif» for me; and th-owing hii arms round her neckTwas about to falute her: Hold. Sir cried the wench,difen tangling herfeiffora uis rude embrace, fi tee youare f >c . a liurr,., ir W!il be better to give yeur kifsto my ; f, as fbe wii! be there fome tifne before me,38. \ fcholar. a bald man. and a baiber tra”ellingtogether, agreed each to wa^ch f-ur hcuri at night,in torn, for the fake of fecurity. The barber’s lotcame hrft wno lhared the fcnolar’s head'wnen afkep,then aw ike him when his turn came. The fooler,feramhing his head, and feelin t it ball, exclaimed,Y u wretch of a barber, you have waked the ba>d marvinftcad of me. t39. Sir f’hnmas More, on the day he was beheaded,fiad a barber fent to him, becaufa hii hair was long,wnich was thought would ihatce him b;- more com-mifcrated by the peopie. The baiber afked him, Ifhe wowla be trimmed ? In good faith. huneA fellow^faid Sir Thomas, the King and I have a fuit fir tnyhead, and till the title be cleared, i wi.l beftow no90A upon it.40 \ ftranger parting St. Paul’s cathedral, afleed* Sailor whom he met- what thofc figures were at theweft front ? "he tar replied. The twelve apoftles—How the deuce can that b<r, replied the other, w ienthere are but fix of them? Why faid the Sailor,would you nave them all on deck at once.4t* As the late Mr. Ri»h, whofe abilities as a har-Itquin are univcifally known, was one evening return.( *0 )}i|j lug homefrnm the play, in ai'acj;1 c; -c,'ach- '.ftoroerrdii.! tltc coi< rrmn t<> drive him to the ‘hjq tisen « fernou*J l tavern :n G'a;e-markei. Juft as the coach puffed ot eir. of tne windows of the tavern. Rich perceiving it toa ! bs erien, dextronflv threw iumTeif out e»f tin e.oech-r ‘ window into the room : The coachman, who Taw no-i tiling of this traiffaflion, drew up. dtfeended trom his> I b x opened tiie c'o.ch-door, and let down the flep;f l inen taking off hi hat, he waited for ffme time, tX-? pedling Ricii wetild come out; bet locking into tt •o1 coach, and feeing it empty. he brftcwrd a tew neatlyl curfes on the rafcul who had b 'ked him, rtrrounttil(ij his box turned about, and was te'un ing to tne (lai d,' when Rich, who ' ad wnta'ied ids oppor'.unity, tlirtctri ' iimfelf into the c ..h, and ionkirg -. ut, called to thebi feilow where the devil he was driving? and dtGrecl hir^tcj to turn about. The coachman, aim <1 petrified with|| fright, inftant’y ebeved, and once mere crew up tor;l the door of the tavern. Rich now got out and afuffM reproaching the feliow with fhtpidity. tcrdcretl himi(J his money. No, God blefs vear lior our faid th.e>9 ccachman my niafle.r has ordered me to take no moneyMi to-night.—Pfeiw! faid Rich, your m.der’s a fool,iil here’s a (hilling to yourfelf. No, no, laid the coach-«s man, who by that time had mounted his b< x, thatv won’t do. 1 know you too well for all your (hoes;—si and fo, Mr. Devil, for oner you’re outwitted 142 General Coote. when ferving in India, wasI adurtflec! by one of his aid-de-cairps, who oVU'VedJthat Sir Eyre endangered his health, by exp; fii g him*felf oo much to the fun. Tu’, tut, txclaineo tf i*veteran, the fun has no more iffift or, me, than ona deal-board. Aye, but, Sir, rejoined the cir-oe c:-.ryou (hould recolUdl it is not the fiifi ole board that: the fun has /pile.( *6 )43. E F G ti \ M.Sav» Har>y to D'ck, G >r:ie be of pood cheer,' he vlimfiry «V>on will Ue Chang’d, as 1 hear.G ’od news, repited Ujck, but u better woulc be,ft in Chang'd you would iai.ly oina Jcitti G.44. ^ \ d'>unrry Eilow being admitted to a gentle¬man s tabic, fell upon t c article kus at. tne lower end;bat not knowing wnat pail < f them thouid be eaten,took a mouthfui of the burrs winch uun-fl choaksdliini!. One wno fat next him, faid. Friend, £i at difltis rtfeivcd-for the lift. 1’ruly, anfwcreJ he, as wellas k- could, I am of your mind, fur 1 think it will bwtny lift,45. 4. gentleman {landing by the fide c; a rapidriver, afked a countryman what they ci lied that liv. r ?Tharc’s no nerd of calling on this rjvcr, an pltafeyour honour, faid the man, he Cornes iuft t no ughwithout sailing.46. An ingenious young gentleman et the Unv-verfity of Oxford, bsing appointed to preach before;the King gave oat the imkwing text, Juitycs 1 if- ^ hthif* Waver net.” Meaning nis May. fly. who vva' tl eu■the firft of England, and fixth of ocoiland. At firifthe kinu was difpleafed witn him but in the end wasfo well pleafeu with Ins fcridtu, that he made him oneof ills chaplains in ordinary.47, A crewd being gathered about a poor cobltr,who had juft died in the ftreet, a man aflesd one ofthe onlookers what Li had teen? Ouiy a Cvbier s cud,laid he.48. During Lord Townihend’s refidence in Dublin,as Viceroy, he often went in difguife t rough the city.He had heard much of the wu 01 u thoe-biack, knPwnby,f *7 )trr tf« t*dWl» rf Blird P' ter vbofc ffsrd *«■! tfazsfjjat tht Globe-C-ar-or: Havinp bundersj lout, ht (lopped 10 pet hts boot* clean''' ; which was. jto r.o:*^r done tha'- h;s Loidi'b p (ktt Peter to ptvcif iliini change for t.ali-a-guinca Hbif-a-guinea your11honour, faid the ragged wit, chas * e ;or i-ail-a-p" eo! ifrim me! by St. George, x'u ma". w«!l tlk */ Highlander for* a knep.fcuck'e f Hi LotdJbip was:fo well plcafed, that he 1th him the bit of gold, andWalked <ff.* 49 A patriotic candidate applied to a yeomBn of«: Bcettain county foi his v te. prom fteg to txet ki) influence to turn out the mir ftio. ana piocure a frefli.Mfet. fbeu I won t t >te lor vou fard the farmer.—f 'Why not? faid t!ic patriot; l thought you was a friend||i to your country ? Solan rephed the yeoman, anditfor ihat reaf'n 1 am not for a charge in phe mintftry.know well erougli how it is with my hogs; whendj I buy them in tii*.- I> an, thev v.r c'd eat the devil at'dII all but when they have once pot a little fat thesi keeping of them is ret rvefir lb expenfive , b thata I am for keeping the preterit let, as they will devour■|much iefs than a new one.50 An Hibernian efficer being once in compsnyHi witii feverai who be Ions: ed to tha fame corps, ot e othi them, in a laugh.'' faid. he would lay n cks* n of claret^niltbut the liifliman world make a bull before the even-■ tug was over D me, fab Terence. The wager wasiii laid. and. by way of puzzling him he was trfked h’Walt many bulls then weie in that town ? F've, fa d iteiifl How do veil make that out? Lid the other. coid he,» t i cte is the Black Bull in the nr.adcet*p;ace, and thej|| Red Bull over the wr.v. then Ai-rre is the lVd 8»ili,in ft by the bridge, and iWhi'c Bull si the corner.t|| '1 lit* arc but four faid the other. Why, arrah• bidhe, there the Edna tow, in the Butcher-row.-—That’sff t3 )Thst’r a bull, fait] the othtr. Bjr Jafut, (aid hr, thru1 baTc won the wa^er, for yoa &aTa made the bul' and not me.51. From a late ClonmeH Journal.—lion awaylafi night, mv wife. Bridget Coole, (he is a tight neatbodv and ha* one leg; (he was (can riding behindthe pried of the pariflixthrough Fernov; and as w«nertr we^e mafried I wilhpav no debt flje dots notcontrail: the 'ifp with one tooth, and is arwavs talkingabout fa ri s. a d is of no ufe but to the owner.—Signed. Piulim Goole.52. Tlteoph !ti« Gibber, w o trst very extravagant;One Jay <i(krd a hundred pound' from his fatner. tadear his feres: Zound« C. ! (aid old Golly, can’t.youlive upon your falary ? Vhen I was ycur age I neverfpent any of mv father’- money. — But I am fure, Sir,you hive fpent many hundred p unds of my fati'er'smoney, replied fhcophilus.— This retort had its tfft.il.5;. The following dry wa? related by the lateGeorge Stlwyn:— ’’wo friends, who Had not feenCecil otiier for a long while met one aay by accident;H >w do you do ? faid the one. But fo and fo, re-llie other ; and yet I was married fince you andI were together. — That is good news. — Not veryd , fir it was my lot to choofe a termagant.—k s a p tv —f baldly think it fo; for (he brought n>*two tnoufsnd pounds.— fell, that is a comfort.—Not fo much: for. wi h her fortune, 1 purenafeda fjuantity of 'beep, anththiy are all dead.— That isdiftrfffing.- -Not fo c.Tt’ffilug a* you may imacine;for by the lale of -utir (kins I got.more than the fheepcofl me. — In that c&fo you are ind' mnidsC.— By nomeans, for niv houle and sli my money-have beendeftyayod by fir..— \la<-! teat was a deer.dml mif-■for:n e? Fai'h, no* f> dreadful, for my termagantwife eud my haufc were 'burnt•r**)' $4. Th* captain of aii EngHiK frif'ate/liaJ a netH®' yal antipathy to a cat. Otic of i>is failors. xri. ’. forfome ir.i conduft had been ordjreci a fl >ggipp. fa>edhi* back, by prtfcnting to the captain vno followingpetition.By yonr I'onour’* command,A culprit ! ftand.An example to all the fliip’s crew;I am pinion’d and ftript.And condemn’d to be whept.And it [ am flopp’d—tis my due..A cat. T am toldIn ab orrence v*u fv ld;Y;ur honour s averfion is mine}ft a cat With one tail.Makes y mr flout heart fail,' O fate me from one that has nine!$5. Fletcher of Sahown r as pofiiflid of a moftirritable temper. His'footman deflring to be dif-Riiflco, *Vby do you leave me? faid he. B'caufe;to ipealc the truti, f cannot bear your temper.—To be fore I am pa-ffionare. but my paffion is nofooner on than it is off — Yes. replied tnc fervant,bbt then it is no fooner eff ti an it is on.56. K failor ’ately got on horfebaclc at Mile-end,and not being accuft nud to equcflran feats, fei^i-dthe horfe by the iiecb, to the great uivcrfion of thebe olders. ^ut a wag obfrrv i t^at nothing couldbe more natural t an for a tar to ride on the main.^ 57* T’wo comedians beionping to Liorss'-Oardcn^1 heatre,,having .a wager about wiii»h of sjiem fung.}<efl. they agreed to r« f. r it to Dr. Arne, who under¬took to be a’bitrator on this oecaftan. \ ciav was■eacordlriglv agierd on, and both the partie* executedto the befl of »: . r abilities before him. As lo.® as( 20 )Iner !i£kI fintfreJ, the do^lor procseaed to plre judg*irrnt in fie following mnnner: As for you. Sir,eddreffing himfelf to ri'e firfl, vou ar« bv much thew.irft finger I ev>r heard in mv ’dfe. — Ah. faid theoiher emit!nc.lv, f knrw 1 flioo'd gain mv wager.—■Stop Sir. fays the d;>$ r, I have a word to fav tv* voubsfire you no. which is this. That as for you, Sir,you cannot fing at ail.>;S. An riGunan be;ng told that a frirnd of h’shad pa' h:r money in the ftoctcs: Weil, faid lie,I never had a farthing in the flocks; but 1. have hadmy legs in ti sm nf-.en enough.59. A humorous fellow 3 carpenter, being fub-poensd as a whnefs on a trial Nr an afiault. oue of 4,C 'unfsL vth > sva- verv muc 1 iven to brow-heat theevidence, afk d him what d'ftance he was from *''eparties w en h-* faw t’e dcfi'vdant fir ike the plaintiB fThe carpenter anfwered- Juf: four feet fv’e inches,and a ha! .—Pry’-b e fell w favs the cour.fcl howis it p ..Ttb'e sou cat be ih very mcl as to difiance ?Whv, to tell you tne tn;»'i, fivs the carpenter, J jI thougivt, pcr:mos, that f^me fool or other mightafii me. and therefore I mcafured it.. * ■ i6?. A failor once nbferving that his great prsn,-!. ^fi’her. grandfafoer, and father died at f-a : Qgothanother who hr .rd oim If 'vas vvj. f would nevergo ro iVn. Wily, fajd rlie faiior. where did y, urgreat g'nnduthcr. graiHifathar. sod father div ?—He a: f veren, in their beds. f ii* «. faid the fador,If 1 were y^u, 1 would never go ti'. bed.ft r. A nertrr going to a Mr. Biaft'j honfe ore daywith a load up n his back, faid to a gentleman.‘hathe met in the Hay market. Prnv yom hos'our, cany titell me wliere J«l>- tilafi lives?—Mr, blaftl 31aft, didvon- . 1*vnuiky? rcr’icd tlic gentleman- — Yes. Rlafl yoS?honour fa'd the: porter. 'his one cor. region of wards,thouch not intendsd to give ar\ . fTer ce fo inhaiedthe gentleirsn. that he n^t onlr refufed to give thepropf infa-matior, i;ut in a rage, gave .ilfn a heartydrubbing with his canc.6s. — ^he Trifh methi d of ruinirg a Brnker In the rebr llion, J. C. 3rreslord. E q. a hanker,ano’ member for Dublin, rendered himfulf fo veryobnoxious to the rebels, in cor ft quence of his vigil¬ance in bringing them to punishment, that wiio everthev "found any of his banl-n tes in plundering afcnufe. t're general cry was. By Jafus ! we'll ruin thsrafeal! we’ll Heftroy ev.ry note of his w-- can find--—a^d th»y afluaHv deftroyrd, it is fupn 'fed upwardi•f 20 oool. of his rotes during tiie rebellion!6;. ^.n Trifiirnan going to be hanged, bc-jped thatthe rope might bu tied under hi* arms, infls-ad ofround hisnerk; for he wa« fo rtma1 kebly tickhfh iathe throat, that he fli tuld acrtainly kill himfelf withlaughihg!64- A fehoolmnnerhearing ore of hi* (chojars reedsthe b >y when li* came to the word Honour, pronoun*eed it full: tire matter told him it fhould always b®pronounced without the H- as thus, prour Very we^,Sir, replied tne bi y, l \tiil reta 'mb«r for the future.Aye. Imd the matter, always drop the H. — The m xtmorning hit matter’s tea. with a hot muffin wasbrought to his dtfk. but the duties of his avocationdetained him till it was cold, therefore he orderedthe fame boy to take it to t! e fire end heat it.— Ves,Sir. relied the fcholar. and taking it to the fire eat it.Prefemly the matter called for his meffin: haveaat it, as you b'd me, faid the boy. Ea’ it youIcoundrel f faid the matter; ! h;d you take it to »h«ire and heat it. But, Sir at fwered the boy, ytfycr*day y«u told me always to drop the H.I («i65. A lawyer and bis c’erk rl.iin^ on the roarf,the clftk dcfired to mow what wae the chief point ofthe law? His mafl r faid, if he would promiftt to payfor fieir fuppers that night, he would tell him ; which• Was anreed to. Whv, then, faid the mifler, goodwitm fTes are the chief points in law. So. when theyea re to the inn, the niafUr hefpoke a couple of f >'wlsFor fupper; and when they had fupped, told the clerkto pay for ttiem, according to agreement. O, Sir,fays he, where is your good witneffss ?66. A traeeller relating fome of his ad»entur«i,to'd tiie company, tha* he and his firrvant made fiftyw !d \rabians run: w iich Aartiing tliem, he obferved,tiiat the>e utim no fuen great matter in it, for, fays he, jwe run, and they run after us,67. Copied from a Chefhirc fingcr-pofl—This isthe road to Terwin.— Phis is the way to ChtAer.—TIP'S goes no-whcre—N. B. If you cannot read, elkat the blackfmith’s fliop.68. Epitaph in a Church-yard in Ireland—Hr.re lies Father, Mother and iifter Nan.Father was drowned on his paflage from America fMother died in Scotland ;And Sifter Nan in Cor!:.Had they all tired, they would hare been buried her#.69. Epitaph in a Church-yard in Cornwall.-* 1Hare lies the laft of William Wood,Who lived and died as welt as he could.•70. A young clergyman, who had juft left college,prtftntert a petition to the king, reqnefting his majeftywould apTvunt him to a very important office.—The king bring much tffended at his preemption,wrote under it, a Samuel, chap. X. vtr. 5. and re-!turned( *3 )turned it. Hn turning ’o the place, the ycangcJergyman Lad the trortificiit on to read *l.tf wordtj** .'arry ai Jericl.o until your biard be grown.”71. During the war in 1672 a poor woman, wh©fold beer among the army itt down her bartel 1 eara tent, and ciied as loud as (hi could HeicN fi: r fet*r,two-pence a-qua>t. A fold er on tie oti er fide ofthe tent, cried at the fame time. Here’s fie beer,ti re half-penc* per quart. Ala'1 fa;dft e fomo crueldeceiver underfeih me and (])hI1 be obliged to gohome a a;n with my whole fleck. This howtvtr,was not the cafe for on lookii g into the barr.l, (h«pt-revived (he had not a drop left. The fidJl wa.r,the foldier had pierced the oti er end of ti e barrel,and fold every drop at three half-pence a-quart.72. When the invafion of our iflmd by the Frenchwas fo much the pubhe topic, a little hoy. one day,interrupted his father, by alk vg if f> c French wouldIning their children with them ? by alk scu tlat ?faid his father. Bfcaofe. replied ti e hoy elit e; inghis fiffs t'd putting himfelf in a b» xing attitude,I am tninkihg how bravely I would fight them.173. A gentleman, who was much againfl thtcufium of giving money to the fervants of the friendswhere he dined, thou ht of a ttick, which b* rcfolvedto play them at a errtain nobleman’* hrufe at hi*»ext vifir. He collected ah ur a dozen farthings, andas they flood in two row* fuming an avenue, whenfee left the hmtfe.he Jiftributed one to e«ch alternatelyright and left; by the time be had given the laft. thabutler, with whom be bed began, pe c-ived his dona¬tion. and refpe&fullv advancing began very humblyJo ftammet out an apology. 1 believe. Sir; you ava—made c li ght iniftake—you bevh—■, Oil. nryfakithe gei.tltman, I never give Isfs—I nsver givela( ^4 )Tn ratn old Tne focir butler attempt to expfa'n r tlflt Igentleman burticd to his co$rh. ftill txclaiming when- *evir he endeavoured to fpeak —1 never give lefs.^ ^4. Juft prevtoui to the battle of Dettingen on# lof the foldirr*, named'’.Villiura Auftin, procured th« H•an^eens of f vetal of his comrades, under pretence of ifetching them water; but, whether hij memory wastreacherous or not, he did not return til? the battlewas over. The next dav the Duke of CumberlandS’rived »t the camp, and Auftin’s conduct being re¬ported to him, he demanded why he had left the fieldprevious to the engagement ?—Wha’! do vou thmkI wa« fuch a ford, ■< to f and there tu be ftot at l |quoth Billy But ii you go to that, why was not 1your Highnefs there?—I was on my march thither,returned the Duke. —Yes, fa d Anftin 1 know you was; |but you might have made a little more hafte if youw ,uid. — Being brought to the halberts for the abov#offence, and feeing the drummer with the cat-n-ninc-ttils, he dtfired to fpeak with the commandin - fficer,of whom he requefted a pair of ftiflarj. Sciffars! re«. |peated tha officer, for w1 at ?—To cut that cat’s claws,for (he fcratches damnably.I; r ‘75. On* alked his friend, why he had married fueha lutle wife ? Why* faid he. you muft know, that ofall evil's w* ffiouid chufe the leaft.r\-A-oFINIS.|  r\^r\ tHUlllBK, T. yoBNSTOIl, VBK\jGtt>i8at.