A CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH, fyASERMONPREACHED BYThe Reverend Mr. J O H N W E L C H jSometime Minilter of the Gorpel at Ayr.From Lvke x 38 39, 40, 41, 42.Now it vame to pa ft, as they went, that he enteredinto a certain village : and a certain woman namred Martha received him into her hou'e.And (he had a (ifier called Mary, who alfo fat atJcfus' feet, and heard his wordBut Martha was cumbered about much ferving, andcame to him, and (aid. Lord dofl thou not cartthat my (ifler hath left me to ferve alone ? hid her,therefore, that (he help me.And Jefut anf-oered, and (aid unto her, Martha,Martha, thou art careful and troubled about manythings ;But one thing is needful: and Mary hath $hofen thatgood part, which Jhali not be taken away from her.w it*GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J *ND M. ROBERTSOH#,mbccxcit.ACRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH.Luke x. 42. Mary hath chcfen that gond partwhich' jhall not be taken away from her.\ S Chrift did fbew himfelf lovinp to Laza*ms and his fid.ers, in that he raU'ed Laza-ms from the-de ih oF the body, and then fromthe death cf the fqul; So did his {ifiers herefhew their thankfui minds unto Chrift again;the one by receiving him into her houfe, andthe other by entertaining him in her heart. Ashe was God, he was entertained by Mary, andas he was man, he was received of Martha.They both defircd to entertain our Saviour, asJacob and Efau, Gen. xxVii. defired to pleafetheir aged father; bur Mary made choice of thebetter part, and was preferred before her fifter,as Jacob fped foondt of moil dainty venifon,and prevented his brother cf the bleffing: Andaltho’ the cares of Martha, in her entertainmentof Chrilt, be not to be mifliked of, yet Mary’sdiligence in hearing Chrifl’s do^lrine, is of pur-. pofe preferred to Martha's care; to declare un¬to us that it is much better, with Mary; to flu-dy in the word, 4 and firfl to feck the kingdomof God,’ Mat. vi. 35. than with Martha to la¬bour in the world, and to negle&thar heavenlykingdom. And yet notwithflanding, fuch is thecorruption of this rufty age, that our greateflcare is to provide for this prefent life, as didthat rich man, Luke xii. that enlarged nis barns,wherein to put his (lore foy many years; butwe never, or very late, do provide far that lifeto come, like to that other rich man that neverthought of heaven till he was tormented in hell,.A CRY TOTlit WHOLl: EARTH. 7vk do not fit at ChrilTs feet;, ray, we fet Chriftat our ieet wheti we are fo carelefg in hearingthe Word: we-are as flyw to come to the church,as was the raven to tome to the ark ut Noah,Gem viii. and as loth are we to fpend any timein the fervice of God, as Pharaoh was loth to let; the Ifraelites go to 1'efve the Lord. If a comma-: dity were to be feem out of which fome wqrldlyI profit or gain might arife, how careful woutd webe to procure it ? what pains would we take toget it ? Abfalom v/as tiot more defivous of akingdom, than are the rich men of our time de-frous of golden gain: But if it be a matter ofcoft and trouble unto them; if they cannot hear: the word preached, withotrt fome hinderance toI their worldly bufmefs, and fome extraordinary1 charge to their purfe, then like to the Gada-1 lencs, Luke vih. they are content to take their! leave of Chrifl ^nd his woid, and would ratheri leave t-har heavenly pearl, than part from their1 worldly pelf, Matth. xiij. ^g.1 hus, in Chrift v;e have, a pattern of a goodI pafior, and in M;wy the pattern of a goqd hear-I ev; let mmifters learn, by this ex.'.rr.ple, to take( ah occafions to preach the word, to be inftant infeafon and out of feafon, 1 i irn. iv. 2. and letChriftians learn by her example, Mat. vi. * Firflfeek the kingdom of God, and his righ’eouf-nefs,’ and thert to provide the things of this life.While Mary was careful (or the food of the foul,Martha was curious to provide food for the bo¬dy ; her greatefl'care was to entertain Chi ift, andto make him good cheer to tefiify her thankfulmind unto iiim, that had done fo great things forthem; he had raifed her brother Lazarus front,death to life; therefore he was worthy to be wellS A CRY TO THE WHOLE E ARTH,entertained If Llias deferred to be well dealtwithal at the hands of his hoftefs, i Kings xvit.whofe fon he relfor d to Ufa; or Eliflia deferr¬ed fuch entertainment for her Ton’s reriving,2 Kings ir. then furely our Sariour Ghrift wasmuch more welcome hither, feeing he had raifedL zarus out of his grave, where he had lain bythe (pace of four days before, John xi It wasWell done therefore of Martha to (hew her thank¬ful mind to Chriff; but it was not well done atthat time, to fhew herlelf thankful in that man-c r, for it was then time to hear the word; be-caufe at that time Chrift preached the word; it'was not eonrenient time for her to fpend on o*ther affairs, and to negleft the greated affair,ew n the means of her own falvation ; it was notunlawful for Martha to labour, no more than itwis unlawful for Peter to fleep; but when Chriflwas preaching, it was then no time for her tofoufy herfelf in ferviog, no more than it was forPeter to fleep, when as Chrift did fo earneftlywill him to watch and pray, Matth. xxv.When Chrill preached out of Sun on s fhip tothe people that flood upon the fhore, Luke v.it was no time then for Peter to play the filher-man; but when Chrift had done fpeaking, sndcommanded him to launch out into the deep, thenh was time for him to let down his net. i'hereis a time wherein we ought to labour in our vo¬cation, and a time wherein we ought to hear theword of God; and as we may not utterly negleftour lawful callings to follow fermons. fo we multnot teftow the (abbath, which is confecrated tothe fervice of God, in following the works ofour vocation; all things have ttuir appointedtime, faith the wile man, and every thing is feera-A CRY TO THE WHOLE EAK iH.hind him than he findeth: He loves not to be inZaccheus* debt for his dinner; for,inftead there-of he bringeth falvation to his houfe: neitherdoes he here leave his (upper unpaid, for inlleadthereof, he beftoweth on them a heavenly fer-mon: I his (hould be the exerdfe of all faithfulminifters, when they are invited to a great feaft,that, as they are called the fait of the earth. Mat.v. 18. to make meat (avoury and well feafoned,and to preferve it from putrefaction; fo the mi-uiifers and paftors {hould feafon the table withfome godly confr rences and communications, * tominifter grace unto the hearers/ Eph. vi. 26.Both thefe filters were godly women, and bothearned favourers of Jefus Cbrift; and yet in themanner of their devotions, there in fuch diff- r»ence, that the worldly affe&ions in the one mayin fome fort be mifliked, in refpect of the godly .exercife and piafbce of the other. Martha isfore incumbered with mnch ferving, when a lit¬tle fervice had been fuflicient; but Mary is at¬tentive to hear the word of God, which can ne¬ver be heard diffidently. Mary fitteth to hearthe word. Mat. v. as Chrrft uleth to fit, Luke iv.when he preached the word; to declare unto us,that the word is to be pre..ched and heard witha quiet mind. In a dill night every voice is heard,and when the body is quiet, the mind molt com¬monly is quiet alio. But Martha is troubled withother affairs, and therefore unfit to hear theword, as is the ground that is fcorched with(tones, and over-grown with weeds and thorns,which is indeed unfit to receive the feed. Mat.V. or to yield any fruit to him that tilleth it. Asoften therefore as we come to hear the word ofGod, we mud not come with didratted minds. ^^-^rrrwmnirE^lVTWrwe mU't not troub! ouridves with the cares oflhi? life, which, as our i^viour faith, are butthtjrus ro choak the word Luke viii. 4. and tomake it unfruitful: For, as Alofes was unfit totalk with God till he had put off his fhoes. Fx.iii. and the blind man unfit to come to ( hrifl,until he had rhrowm away his cloak, Mark x fowe mud think ourfelves unfit to hear the wordof God, and unapt tor every heavenly exercife,til! we have put off our flioes, that is our world ¬ly cogitations and aflecbons. «nd till w^e havecafi away our cloaks, that is all lets and impedi¬ments which may hinder us from profiting inour proLfiions. When our minds are quiet, wreare fit to deal in heavenly matters: therefore thfcdoftors conferred fitting in the temple, and Goddelighteth to deal with us when we are moftprtvate! He appeared to Abraham fitting in thedoor of his tent Gen. xviii.; the Holy Ghoft,came down upon the apollles, and filled all the‘ houfe where they were fitting;* the eunuch, fit¬ting h his chariot, was called and converted, bythe preaching of Philip. AOs viii. 'ly. Mary fatat Jefux’ ieet, yet fire fat not fieeping as many fitat the preacher’s feet; but (he fai at Ghrifl’s feet,and heard his words; as Paul was brought up atthe feet of Gamaliel, Aft xxii. and was perfect¬ly inflruftcd in the law .of the fathets. Hex hu- .Kiility is commendable, in hat Ike fat at Jehus’Feet, to declare to us. that the word is to be heardwkh ail humility : her diligence and eameltnejsappear, in that flie would not depart and helpher filter; to fignify, that the hearing of the wTo:dtnuft be pieforrca before worldly bufinefs. Herdiligence and humility ferve to condemn our ne¬gligence and contempt of Chrift apd his word;A CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH. 3Luke xvi. In John v. Chrifl is faid to lovehis whole family, and here he is faid to -comeunto them; for whom he love h he cannot hutvifit. like the friends of Job, fob ii. that cameto comfort him in his adverfi y Yea, and thegreater love that Chrifl: hears unto rny. the of-tenec he will refort unto them : yea, he willcome and dwell with them, John xiv >5. LikeJ. cob, that came down into Egypt, Gen. xivii.to his be oved/fon Jofeph. and dwt4|Jn Golhen.But Chrift is yet more kind than Jacob was. orhe came not till he was fent for with horfes andchariots: But Chr.ift came of his own accord 'othis beloved family. I hits doth he always p e-vent us with his manuold bleffings. Before hewas defired, he came into the world; he Cilledhis apoflies before they came unto him; and be¬fore lie was invited he came into this noble lioufe.O happy houfe that entertained fuch a guefl;but thrice happy inhabitants to whom luch aguefl would vouchafe to come! When he cameunto the fvvinfh Gad irenes, they defired him todqrart out of their coafts Luke viii. preferringtheir twine above their Saviour: But this godlyfamily gladly received him into their houfe pre¬ferred their God before them gold, and theirfouls’ wealth before their worldly ireafare. L’heyreceived him into their houfes, who had not ahoufe of his own to put his head into, Wbt.-viii.t6 wherein their hofpitality is commended, andfhall moil certainly 'be rewarded at that mofl:dreadful day, Mat. xxv. For with thefe and Inch,like works of m. icy, the Lord fhall anfwer thefentence of judgement which is to be denoun¬ced again ft the wicked, that never exerciled thefeworks of mercy. Let us therefore leant by ti&u:I4 A CRY TO THE WHOLE E ARTH.example to be harbourers, and given to hofpita-lity, which is fo often commended to us in theferiptures, and {hall he fo richly rewarded at thelaii day. Thefe godly fathers, Abraham, Gen.xviii. and Lor, Gen. xix entertained angels Iniheir houfes in the habit of Grangers, fo wejnay daily entertain Chrift Jefus in the habit of?. poor man, of a blind man, of a lame man, andwhatfoever is done to any of thofe that are hism mbers, he doth account thereof as it weredone to h’tnfelf. Now, as this virtue of hofpita- jiity is commendable in all forts of perfons, fo it !is our fpecial concern, and more efpecially com- (mended unto minilters, who are exprefly com- Imanded by the apoftles, i Tim. iii. 2. amongother things to be given to hofpitalky: Untothe Levites in the time of the law, the Lord ap¬pointed cities of refuge, Num. xxxv. to figni- Ify thereby that the minifter’s houfe fliould be Ithe poor man’s harbour, and his flore, their trea- IIfury But the true miuifters, in thefe our dayshave no cities of refuge for others, becaufc theyhave none for themfelves, they have not to re- !lieve the wants of others, for they have not torelieve their own neceflities.Now when Martha had once entertainedChrift as he was man, into her houfe, Mary be¬gan to entertain him as he was God into her ;heart: She fat at his feet to hear his preaching.For no fooner came Chrift into the houfe, butfee took occafon to teach and inftruft the fami¬ly, and indead of bodily food which they be-{towed upon him, he beftpwed upon them thefood of the foul. Thus doth Chrift always fhew jfeimfelf a thankful gueft: Kor into whatfoever j!hflulc he entered, he leaveth better things be- ;A CRY TO THE WHOLE E ARTH. t janother time he noteih them, Luke xiv. for pref-jGng to the chief places at banquets, declaringthat modeily is to be ufed, at the fitting downto meat, whit guefls'lhouki be bidden to ourtables: So ftiould preachers behave themfeivestowards thofe that do invite them, when theyfee perhaps forae fault or diforder either in the-> mafter of the f-aft, or in fome other of theV;-,guefts, even to fay unto them thus, or otherways,' as the caufe r^quireth ; I will warn you of onething, that if yotrfollow counfel, wiif do yougood, that is, that you would leave oif your u-fury or your extortions, or your coretoafnefs,or opprefilon: That you would leave off yourfwearing, and blafpheming the name of God :lhat you would forbear to profane the Lord’sfabbath. That you would leave your pride, andexcefs in your diet and app.trel: That you wouldforbear to fpeak ill of any behind their backs,or to bear any malice or hatred to any of yourneighbours: L'hefe or the like;, are the faultswhich are eafy to be efpied, almofl in everyplace; and thefe are the faults which every faith¬ful minifter of Chrift Jefus fhould not leave un¬reproved wherefoever he comerh. But as Eliastold Ahab of his idolatry, i Kings xiit. althoughhe was king : And as John Baptift told Herodof his adultery, altho’ he did tfllny things forhim, Matth. xiv. Mirk vi. 20. ‘and^eaid himgladlyfo fhould the preachers reprove thepeople for their notoiious offences, norwith-ftauding fotne favours and courtcfies received ofthem before. «If Chrift took occafion to find fault with Mar¬tha for her too much diligence, in his entertain¬ment, it teems he was not very curious of his diet,14 A CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH,but would have been content with fimple meat*;-he was rip delicate ordinary gueft, he did not af-fe£l: or delight in ftimpmous banquets, or coftlyfare, he rather required! a religious heart, a con-Raht faiih, a willing mind, to hear the word.Lake xi. -z3. with an earned care to live there¬after, rhcfc are the things wherein the LorddeHghtcth ; thefe are the morfels which he de-frreth, and which he prer'errcth before all earth-ly cheer: Thus is-Martha reprehended for‘hercuriofity.• Now let us fee* how Miry is evcufed andcommended for her godiy care. 5 One thing i.;neceffar/, faith our Saviour; and what is thatone thing ? Even to h~ir the word preached',* which is the power of God unto fulvanon toevery one that beltevetb,’ Rom. t. t6. A manmay better want ail things than that one thingneedful; and yet we deftre all things, and wenegleft that on? thing which is fo needful. Th;sone thing hath Miry chof-n, and therefore hathchofen the better part; Martha’s part it good,becaufe it provided! for th:s prdent life; butMary’s part is better, becaufe it leadeth unto e-ternal life. It is goo ; to be occupied about ourcalling, to get our living; but it is better to beoccupied in hiring the word, which is able tofive our lou ^ As the head and the foot areboth needful to the body, fo Mary and Marthaare both needful ia a commonwealth- Man hathtwo vocations, the one earthly by Ir.s labour,the other heavenly by his prayer, i here is theactive life,’which‘confifceth only in praftiftpg theaffairs of this life, wherein man Ihcws hlmfelf tobe like unto himfelf, which is an earthly man,citing for eaitkly things; and there is the cor -A CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH, i smore cf that; for, as the Lord anfwered forMary when (lie lie Id her peace herieif, Jo dieLorS will defend their catlie, and take their partagainft their advei(tries; howbeit the godly hefufferers of the injury. The Lord cannot abideto hearItis fervants evil fpoken of but is alwaysready to maintain their right, and to aufwcr forthem: He will not fuffer Laban to fpeak onei evil word to his fervant Jacob, Len. xxx?.And if Aaron and Miriam murmur againft Mo*fes. Numb, xii the Lord will .ptmifh it with le-profy. "What a comfortable thii;g is it to be god*ly, and to the godly that the King of kings willtake their part, and will not fufter them to fu(*1 tain any wrong. He is a mod pare and traftyfriend that will not abide his friend to be back-• bitten or evil fpoken of, but cither he will an-fwer in their defence, or he will find fome meansto flop their mouths, and reftraih the flanderouslongues of their enemies: fometiraes heflopped Balaam’s paflage when he went to cu/fehis people, and caufed the dumb afs to (peak,I Numb, xxii. and reproved the mad fid’s or thej prophet, rather than he 'would have his peopleto be cuned, a Pet. ^i. 15.ihe reputation of Martha’s name, arerueththe vehemency and earoeftnefe of this admoni*non, ! he Lord, he is fain to be tarneft, andimportunate with us, before he can reclaim us.So when God fpdke.to Abraham, he cahsJwhtwice by name, Gen. xxii. Cluift called IVterthrice by name, John xxi to caufe him make histhreefold confeftion, for fatisfa^doa of iiis three*fold denial: and when the Lord fpake umo Sa¬muel, he called him ftveral times by native, 1Sam, iii. before he anfwered. Tor fuch is the12 A CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH,great mercy of God, that he is even content toadhicniih us often of our duty; and again, fuchis the dulnefs and pcrverfcnefs of our crookednatures, that ve cannot be gained by our firftadmonitions, but the Lord muff call us botK of¬ten and earneftly, before we will hearken untohim.There are two things in this fpeech of Chrift’sto be obferved; the firtf is his niodeft reprehen-fion of Martha’s immoderate care : The otheris, his friendly defence of Mary’s choice. Al-tho’ Martha was very careful to entertain Chrifl:in the bed manner, yet if he perceived anything in her, that is worthy of reprehecfion, hewill not flick to tell her of it, he will not foorheher in her faying, nor foothe her in her ownconceit, for all the trouble and coll that fhe be-ftcwed upon him. If we fhculd be invited tofome man’s table, and kindly entertained there¬at, it would be unkindly taken, if we (hould findfault with any miforder: But for as much as allChrjff's actions are the only inflru&ions of chrift-ians, therefore every chriftian man, but elpecial-?y preacher, to whom it more particularly ap-pertaineth, mufl learn by this example, how tobehave themfelves when they are invited to greatfeafts, namely to fpeak' to the confcience freely,when they fhall fee a fault. The beff requitalthat wg can make for our good cheer, is to givegood cour.fel, and wholefome admonitions tothem that invite us. When Chrift dined with .the Pharifee, Lukexi. 18. and was mifliked forrot waffling before dinner, he thereby took oc-cafon to reprove their hypocrify, even their out-vvard fhew of holinefs, which was the moft fre¬quent fhew and fin of the Pharifees. And at ,A CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH. 9ly in its convenient feafon Ecd. iii. but whenthings are done prepotleroiifly, and out of order,then folioweth confufion. Although Martha didnot hear Chrift, yet did fhe labour for Chrift ;yet there be many in thefe our days that willneither labour for Chrift, nor hear of Chrift,but as the Ifraelites were weary of their journeyin the wildernefs, Numb. xxii. and loathed thatheavenly manna, fo thefe are weary of everygodly exercife, and are foon clogged with theword of God. - The five fcoliih yirgins, Matth.xxv. wafted their oil to no purpofe, and whenthey Went to buy, they were excluded the mar¬riage; and thefe foolifh men fpend their time andday of’gra,ce, vainly and-wantonly, as tho* afterthis life, there were no time of juft ice and venge¬ance to be feared. The day ferveth for rheirpride, the night is fpent in fport and pleafure,and no time is left to hear the word. Whenwe are praying, they are playing; when we arepreaching, they are eating and drinking, like theold world, that ate aiuTdrank, Gen vi. that mar¬ried wives, and were given in maniage, Luke-xvii. while Noah was preparing the ark for fay¬ing of his houfehold, Heb. xi. And as Baal’sprieits^ 2 Kings xxi. wounded themfelves toferve their idols; fo thefe men took dangerouscounfel, and ijrangely troubled themfelves toferve the devil. Now Martha ftndeth in rfeifgrieved, and beginneth ro envy her lifter’s ex¬ercife, as Jofeph’s brethren envied him for hisdreams, Gen Xxxvii and the ions of jefl'e, whodd'dained their brother David, for his forward*uefs to combat with Goiiah, 1 bam. xv. 1 hefetwo filters that in other things agreed io we!! to¬gether, in this do fo much differ, that Ghrift muffI o A CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH,have the hearing of the matter before him, anddecide the controverfy. Martha played the plain¬tiff, and acculeth her fifter ; Mary, the defend¬ant, anfwereth bylier advocate, and Chriif him-fclf, that took upon him the office of an advo¬cate, is become the judge, and givtih fenterceon Mary's fide; Martha complains of her filter’sflothfulnefiyaftd feetneth, after her fort, to blameour Saviour for winking at it, requiring him tofee the matter redreffed fpeedily. but Chrift firftrebroveth Mtutha’s ciiriofuy,and,then excufeth,yea, and commenduh Mary’s care. In Martha’sdoing, it dedareth to us how willing we are topleate Ourfelves, in our own conceits, Ad howready to conceive anfifs of the doings td others;yea. fometimes to prefer our ov n defeats beforethe perfections of other m 'n If David chafienhis fou! With failing, Pf Ixix. it fliall be turnedto his reproof; and if he put on faekclojfh, toteffify his contrition, they jefLat him, and thedrunkards m.‘ke fongs of him. Luke vii. a 3. IfJohn the Baptifi be temperate in his apparel anddiet, they wall Jay he hath a devil: If Paul an-fv/er difcreetly for himfelf, he fhall be chargedto be mad with over-much learning; yea, if ourSaviour Cluifl himlelf frequent the company offirmer^, to welcome them from fin, they vrili not{land to call him a ft iend and companion of pub-licans and finners. Luke vii. 34. Amongft us, iftiiere be any that be more forward in religionthan others be, or more diligent to hear thevvcrd,asMary was,they fhall not want fome oneor other to cenfure them at their pleafure; yea,to find fault, and alfo condemn them for fo do¬ing. Yet are not the godly hereby to be difccur-aged, or to defift from their godly exercife theA CRY TO THE WHOLE E ARTH. 15tcmplature life, which confifteth ia thetkm of heavenly things wherein man ihews him-felf to be like to the angels, for they who la¬bour in their temporal vocations do.but live likemen; but they who labour in fpirrtual matters,live like angels. When they hear the weed,they hear God fpeakicig unrj them, but whenthey pray, God hears them fp« akin-p to him ;lo that there is a continual conference .betwixt .God and them that are thus exercifed, either in. hearing, or yet in praying. Chrif! loves Mar¬tha for hofpitality, as tfa.ic loved Ktau for hisvenifon, and the Lord loves Mary tor her careand diligence in hearing his word: as Rebeccaloved Jacob tor the hearkening to her voice, Gen.xxv. 28. as a nurfe that having her bread fuSof milk, doth love the child that flicks it fromher, evefi fo the Lord Jefus Chrid. when hehath his bread full of heavenly milk, is gladwhen ha hath childi'en to fuck the fame. Letus therefore, as the apcftle wiilrth, 1 Pet. ii. 1.* Lay afide all malicioufnefs;1 guile, and difKrcva-* lation, all envy and ill-fpeaking, as new-born* babes defire the fincere milk of the word, tltati ‘ we may grow there by,’ to be perfeft men inChrid Jefus^, Let us breathe after the fountain: of living water, which fpringeth up taro eter¬nal life, as the hart brayeth for the rivers ofwater, Pfafm Ixii. t to quench his third/ And'for as much as many things are fo troubiefome,and one tiling is fb needful, let usehvr be feek-ring that needful thing, even the end of aHthings, that L to learn to fear God, and to; drive continually to keep his commandments.Ecelef, xii. i i, which he mult iearn by hearingI of the word o*vGgsl, wheseby faith (without;16 A CR'r TO THE JVHOIX EARTH.tl)/“ whi ii ir i impoflible to pleafe God, Heb,X! 9 ^ may be be’otten and nourifhed in theof men, Rom x. 17.- This is that goodpair which Maw hath chofen, which is muchb arer than her fnfer’s choice, becaufe it con-cerneth a better hfe. and hath the fruition ofthis pref- nt life al^o: Mary hath a double por¬tion. (he both heard the word and |rffo ate ofthe meat which her filler drefTed, For godli-nefs hath the promif.* of this life, and of thatwhich is to come, 1 Tim iv. 8. As for all o-ther things, whether they be honours, promo¬tions, pleafures, or whatever elfe, they ferveonly for the maintemnee of this prefent life,which is but fhort, and alfo very fubje& to mu¬tability : But the word of God is the food ofthe foul, the breath of life, that immortal feedwhich briageth forth fruit unto eternal life, 1Pet* r i. 23. L t the word of God be preciousunto us, becaufe it is fo permanent, for heavenand earth fhall pafs away Luke xxi. 23, but theWord of God endureth for ever. If we makechoice of any other thing belides it muff betaken from us, or we mail be taken from it:But if we make choice of this one thing, it (hallnever be taken from us, neither in this life, nor 1the life to come. The Lord grant that We benot only hearers, but doers of the word, Jamesi. 22 that it may be truly fasd of us. as Chrilfaid of his difciples that heard his preaching,Matth. xii 50 8 Behold my brother, filer, and‘ mother;’ or as he made anfwer to the womanthat fo commended his carnal kindred, Lukexi. 28. ‘ Bleffcd are they that hear the word of6 God, and do the fame.’ Amen. . I.FINIS.