“ Go,” said Wallace ik> the two "Friars, “ tell your oflieerethat the Scots came not’ hefe to keat for peace, hut prepared,for battle, and'are'determined'to avenge our ivrohg'S, artd setottr country free frotn tke Iron yoke of Edward.”—See page \b..m ..." :.i»!'.<.«&oil '■ ‘oao^Mti ban .s^uoivf i 5 •, 1Ifnri!" .* to aavr Ttdint a ff^ooilfEDINBURGH :PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J-YRYDONE,SCoT:! IJANbYER STREET.THE HISTORY./! J /. kllL 1 OF THE !-J.I // L'diSCOTTISH PATRIOT,YVir ; •SIR WM. WALLACE,vaoit>;fidn jq •> . .gijoiiif.q [ ./TOf iKNIGHT OF ELLERSLIE.r.wiilim ‘to « itoua Cf .eooud U leift •srlJ1 eilj nidi ,3/mn ad fiif» aomulmjTHE HISTORYOF *• CSIR WILLIAM WALLACE..TOLTPAH HHITTQ08To few men is Scotland more indebted, and few havebeen more universally admired, than the renownedSir William Wallace, whose memory still continuesto flourish in the annals of Scotland with unfadingglory. His patriotism, generosity, penetration,knowledge of human nature, dress, courage, forti¬tude, perseverance, and prudence, rank him amongthe first of heroes. To such a degree of militaryeminence did he arrive, that the task? would be diffi¬cult, if not impossible, to select one from the list ofmodern heroes who can equal him in greatness.He was the youngest son of Sir Malcolm Wallaceof Ellerslie, near Paisley, in Renfrewshire. Thedate of his birth is unrecorded, but it must have beenprevious to the death of Alexander III., King ofScotland, who met with an untimely end by fall¬ing from his horse in 1286. Alexander was thelast of a succession of princes who had held thesceptre for nearly 800 years, and left it in the handsof his grand-daughter, called the Maid of Norway,who, dying in infancy, gave rise to the famous con- ,test of Baliol and Bruge for the Crown. Both par¬ties having referred to the decision of Edward I. ofEngland, that ambitious and crafty monarch unjustlyclaimed it for himself, and vainly attempted to de¬prive Scotland of her glorious independence. Toour noble hero it was reserved to be the first to vindi¬cate her wrongs, and restore her to ancient splendour.Though Wallace’s father was possessed of a smallproperty, yet the energy, the grandeur, and the in¬trepidity of the mind of his son were formed in theschool of adversity. Leaving his paternal home, hewent to Dundeej and was educated under John Blair,THE HISTORY OP SIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 3who was afterwards his chaplain, and lived to recordhis daring and unparalleled adventures.—The unfor¬tunate battle of Dunbar having led to the abdicationof John Baliol, the reigning monarch, Edward filledevery part of Scotland with English officers andsoldiers, who insulted the inhabitants, and preyedupon the vitals of the humbled kingdom. Wal¬lace beheld the oppressors of his countrymen withhorror and indignation, sympathized writh individualsufferers, and mourned the degradation of his nativeand beloved land. The base injustice, treachery, andcruelty of Edward’s governors became the subjectof general conversation, and the numerous crueltiesand indignities of his officers and men exasperatedthe nation to the highest pitch. Wallace was of anincredible strength of body, and had arrived at thatperiod of life when the feelings are strong and ar¬dent, and every pulse beats with a generous glowtowards the objects of affection. These frequentconversations, and tlie outrages of the English atDundee, where he resided at school, appears first tohave roused his spirit in defence of his bleedingcountry. All places of power dnd wealth in thekingdom w’ere given to Englishmen; and, amongothers, one Selby had been elevated to the dignityof constable of Dundee. Young Wallace w'as eitherinsulted, or considered himself so, by his son, andnot being of a temper to receive any insult with im¬punity, far less from an Englishman, he attacked;and, in presence of many of his companions, slewhim with his own dagger, and made his escapeto his uncle’s at Dunipace, in Stirlingshire. Aftefremaining here a short time, he and his mother re¬turned to Ellerslie ; but, finding that his father andelder brother had been cruelly murdered by theEnglish at Lochmaben, his great and noble mindwas roused with indignation, and, panting with re¬venge, he meditated retaliations worthy of hiscountry’s sufferings, and of the injuries which hadbereft him of a father and of an only brother. Con-THE HISTORY OP4Tsidering himself unsafe beneath his mother’s roof,he went and-lived secretly with his paternal uncle,Sir Richard Wallace, at Riccarton.One day, while residing with his uncle, he went tofish in the Irvine, near Ayr; meanwhile, Lord Percy,with his armed suite, rode past on their way to Glas¬gow. Five of the English turned aside, and tauntinglydemanded the fish he had caught. He consentedto allow th^m part, but they insisted for the whole,and seized them from the hoy who carried the fish¬ing-basket. Provoked at their rapacity and inso¬lence, he gave one of them a blow on the head withhis fishing-staff, that brought him to the ground, andwrested the sword from his hand. The rest attacked,hut they, to their experience, soon found that hisindividual strength, dexterity, and intrepidity weresuperior to their united force. Three of them, bythe powerful arm of Wallace, lay weltering in theirblood, and with difficulty the other two escaped,while Wallace rode home in triumph to his uncleupon one of their horses. Persuaded that he couldnot remain longer here in safety, and being providedwith money and other necessaries, he set off ■ on, hisEnglish horse determined to seize every opportu¬nity to destiny'the enemy, and either deliver hiscountry or fall in the praiseworthy attempt. Firmto his resolution, he spared neither great nor smallthat fell in his way. For these heroic actions hewas outlawed by the English, and compelled, duringthe inclemency of the winter 1207, to live in thefields, the woods, the mountainsi and the forests,where he wandered exposed to all the hardshipsthat it is possible for human nature to endure.These rough blasts of adversity, however, only tendedto brace his nerves, and prepare him to performgreater achievements. , .One day, Wallace, disguising himself, ventured intoAyr, and, sauntering through the .town, passed bywhen the pteward of Lord Percy was insulting theservant of the sheriff, and insisting. that he shouldSIR WJLXIAM W Alii ACE.Lave for his lord what the sefvant had houglit forhis master. Wallacesinterfiei-ed, and said that thesheriff was a very good man, and therefore he shouldhave his dinner. The steward gave WalJaefca strokeoyer the shoulders with his hunting-cane, aecom-jfanied with the most opprobrious appellation thatan English invention could supply. Wallace drewhis dirk, and pierced the steward to the hearf. Jeavniitg the sheriff’s servant to return home w ith his pro¬vision. •'Phe English,who ivere guarding the town,assembled against Wallace; he drew his sword, anddealt destruction with every blow.-' None daring toapproach him, the gates were barricaded with theirspears to prevent his escape. He attempted to jumpover the wall at a place adjacent to the sea, hutmultitudes of the English rushed upon him, And hissword, which had been so much used that day, brokein pieces; he' was overpowered with the spears,taken prisoner,' and confned in the castle, to waitthe most Excruciating death. He languished inprison} deprived of every consolation except whatresulted from a sincere desire of the welfare - of hiscountry} and even of the necessaries of life ; so thatwhen they were about to bring him forth, want ap-peax-ed to have terminated his existence. Theythrew’ him over the wall of the prison ; but, fortu¬nately for his country, he landed upon a soft draff-dunghill. His nurse, hearing of the melancholyevent, hastened, and in the most suppliant manperentreated that she ipight take, away his corpse, f Hewas conveyed to her house in the new town of Ayr,where, by remedies and the most unwearied attenr-tion, he revived under lier motherly roof,f.. The minister’s servant of Ayr beheld the mqurnfulevent, and, returning home, informed his masterand family what he had- witnessed. Thomas theRhymer, the famous Scotch prophet, was residing atthe minister’s at this time, who, hearing the wofultale,1 declared that he was not dead, or his pro.phecieswere all false which he had delivered respecting hisTHE HISTORY OE6emancipating Scotland. “ Before liis death," said he,“ lie will slay thousands of the English, and thricedeliver Scotland from their thraldom.” Wallace soonrecovered his wonted strength, and, longing to ap¬pear among his friends and to avenge his country’swrongs, he seized a sword, which was standing inhis nurse’s house, and proceeded to Riccarton, whi¬ther his friends and relatives hastened to congratu¬late him on his miraculous escape, rally round hisstandard, and bid defiance to the English arms."Wallace, with a brave little band, went to shelter ina wood near Louden-hill, until an opportunityshould present itself of attacking the enemy. Afriend, having observed them enter the wood, carriedprovisions to them, and informed Wallace that anEnglish squire’s servant had rode past: to Ayr, andthat his master, with a party escorting some baggagefrom Carlisle to Ayr, would soon pass that wayiLearning that they were ascending the hill, hehastened to lay his men in ambush, and to preparefor their reception. Wallace, perceiving that Fen¬wick, who had slain his father and brother, was theperson commanding this party, resolved to beavenged or fall in the combat. The English hav¬ing to pass a narrow path, they waited their arrivalat that place, and having engaged, a desperate cori-flict ensued. Of the English there were 180, butWallace had only 50 men; the former well armedon horseback, the latter on foot. Wallace’s soulfired with indignation at the sight of Fenwick, and,rushing upon him,cut his body in sunder. About 100of the English lay dead on the field, the rest makingtheir escape when they beheld the fate of their leader.Wallace seized the horses, baggage, armour, andmoney, which proved a very acceptable present.He now took his route towards the shire of Argyleand the northern border of Lennox. Wanderingabout in the woods with a few who resorted to hisstandard, he came near to Gargunnock, where therewas a pass, which was strongly garrisoned by theSIU WILLIAM WALLACE.7English. Duriog the darkness of the night, hesent two of his men to examine the strength andij situation of the pass; and, receiving a favourablei account of the possibility of attacking it with suc¬cess, he hastened towards it, took the place, putthe men to the sword, but sfet at liberty all thewomen and children.- He, with his patriotic band,went into the wood of Methven, near Perth, thencalled St Johnstoun. Among the valiant and faith¬ful few who had marshalled under his banner offreedom, was one Stephen, an Irishman, of uncom¬mon strength and courage, to whom Wallace gavethe command of the rest, while he and a few of hismen paid a visit to the town of Perth. InformingStephen that they had provisions for several days,he told him to lurk secretly in the .wood until hereturned, or to be prepared for action when heshould hear the sound of his horn. Matters beingthus adjusted, they proceeded to Perth. Beforethey could gain admittance, the provost was sent for,who, seeing Wallace a tall, strong man, asked if theywere all Scotsmen, and from what part of thecountry they came. “ My name is William Mal¬colm,” said Wallace: “ we have come from Ettrickforest, in the south, to seek for- better employment,and to see the country.” “ I mean no harm,” saidthe provost, “in asking these questions; but so manyreports have been circulated about one WilliamWallace, born in the west, who was killing everyEnglishman he could find, and seeing you a tall,strong man, it is necessary to know something aboutthose we admit into the town.” Denying that heknew anything of Wallace, and beseeching him notto mention such a hated name, he and his men wereadmitted, and an inn and plenty of provisions pro¬vided until employment was found for them.Wallace often invited the English to drink withhim, in order to ascertain their number and strengthin the place, and to obtain what other intelligencehe could gather. He lamented that he could devise8TUK HISTORY OFno means to take the town, which was in possessionof the English, as his men were too few in number ;and to set it on fire was only placing himself andfollowers in imminent danger; But it ivas notlong ere an opportunity was afforded him for thisdaring enterprise. There/ was then one Sir JamesButler in the town, hn aged, cruel knight, who keptthe strong castle ofKinklevin, residing with his son,Sir John, an under-captain of Gerald Heron, and areport was spread that Sir James, with his party,were to return to Kinklevin Castle. Wallace, withhis followers, hastened to Methven-wood, blew hishom, and all his intrepid band were quickly by hifcside. Being well armed, they inarched to Kink-levin, and lay in ambush among _a few bushes inthe valley on the banks of the Tay, meanwhile dis¬patching spies in different directions, some bf whomsoon returned, informing them that four men hadpassed, who appeared to be forerunners of the com¬pany. Wallace at length beheld 90 well-armed menon horseback,'and prepared to attack them. TheEnglish perceived the hostile intention of Wallace,and, brandishing their spears, rashed upon them,thinking to trample them under; but they wereboldly repulsed, and several, both men and horses,were slain. Butler alighted from his horse, andmarshalled his men in order to defend themselves.In the fierce Contest which ensued, a few of theScots fell by the captain’s strong arm, and 60 of theEnglish, with their captain, were numbered with theslain ; the rest escaping to Kinklevin, the gate wasopened to receive them, but Wallaces with his men,followed so close that they entered along with them,seized the castle, shut the gate, and drew the bridge.The women and children he allowed to depart withsuch effects as they chose to take with them. Hav¬ing removed all the provisions and necessaries, dur¬ing five nights, from the castle to Shortwood-shaws,he set it in flames. r'i ' 1 ' '!The captain’s wife hastened to Perth, and in-SIR WlMitAM WALtACE. 9formed her son, Sir John Butler, of what had hap¬pened, who instahtly commanded all the men ofPerth and neighbourhood to arm ; and, though theywere 1000 strong, with trembling hearts they ap¬proached the wood, the fame of Wallace being sogreat. Sir John arranged his men in six divisions,and having encircled the wood with five of them toprevent escape, he, with 200 faithful followers, enter¬ed in search of Wallace. He had only 20 archersopposed to 140 of the English archers, supported by60 spearmen. He girded on his buckler, seized hisbow, which was so strong ahd large that no manbut himself could bend it, and, discharging it, slewone of the English archers. The Scotch were soregalled by a terrible shower of arrows which theEnglish discharged, one of which slightly wounded- the immortal Wallace; but, perceiving the dangerin which his men were placed, he changed theirposition, and, dashing through the opposing ranks,rushed with tiger fury in quest of the English lead¬ers. The English-ranks were thinned by the patri¬otic band, and Wallace; encountering Sir John, slewhim and William' Lorn, who had arrived during thecontest with 300 men. The news that both com¬manders were slain, the remaining leaders assembledtheir troops at the south end of the wood, and held aconference to see what should be done in the presentemergency, while Wallace and his men rushed outat the north side. Entering the wood, they foundthe bodies of Butler and Lorn, but their horses andgold-were in possession of the victorious Scotch.' The English, under Sir Gerald Heron, returned toPerth with the news of their dishonourable and saddefeafc The terror of Wallace now daunted thestoutest of the enemy. Five of the faithful fewhad fallen on that memorable day. Two days after,Wallace, with his men, returned and conveyed theirconcealed property from ‘Shortwood to Methven->wood, and then removed to Elcho-pnrk, near Perth;While they remained in this place, Wallace, dis-10THE HISTORY OFguised in a Friar’s gown, paid frequent visits toPerth, in order to receive what intelligence he couldprocure; but some individuals,observing his repeatedvisits and robust and warlike appearance, communi¬cated their suspicions to the governor, Siit GeraldHeron. The house which he frequented was besetwith the enemy ; and being informed of their design,he quickly dresstid himself in female apparel, wentand informed the English that Wallace was lockedin a certain room,-—they flew to seize their supposedprey, while he effected his escape with all possiblespeed. T\vo soldiers, suspecting him as beingrather a strong and fierce-like female, followed'; hutWallace, suddenly turning upon them, drew hisconcealed sword, levelled them with the ground,and hastened to acquaint his comrades of his escape.The English, provoked at such a disappointment,marched 600 men by the South Inch road, and hadnot proceeded far till they beheld the slain bodiesof their companions, which Confirmed them in theirsuspicions of Wallace having taken this route.Surrounding the wrood, they entered in search ofWallace, accompanied with .a staunch bloodhoundto trace the slayer’s steps. Hemmed in on everyside, the hardy few resolved to conquer or to die ;the noble chieftain Unsheathed his conqueringsword, offered up a prayer, and led his warriorsto the fierce attack. Fifteen of the Scots wrereslaiu before, they retreated to the banks of theTay, wherfe they sought a place to cross : many ofthem could not swim, and rather than lose one dropof Scottish blood unrevenged, Wallace again rersolved to face the fpe. This little band, which wasoply 40 at the commencement of the battle, wasnow reduced to 16, while the English had beenstrongly reinforced. They now closed with re¬doubled fury, Wallace seeking everywhere for theEnglish chief. The Scots bad to flee before thewearied English to a place of safety, and were outof sight before the enemy was able to pursue them.SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.11i' Once more had the English recourse to their blood-! hound to trace their steps, and soon again were theyI in sight of each other. Two miles of rising groundf had the Scots to climb before they reached a placeof defence ; and the night, which wras fast approach^i ing, filled them with the hope of reaching a placeof safety. One Eawdon, who was wearied with! fatigue, declared his inability to proceed; and as hewas formerly suspected of treason, Wallace put anend to his existence, his followers concurring in thejustice of the act. The English gaining upon thei retreating handful, they dispersed, the mantle ofnight protecting them against the foe, and the blood1 of Eawdon stopping their hound. As the Englishapproached the body of the traitor, Kierly andStephen mingled with the throng, and whenSir Gerald bowed to examine the body, Kierlypierced him to the heart with his dagger. The cryof treason was resounded, but, in the general con¬fusion, aided by the darkness of the night, the in¬trepid Scotsmen escaped. On the following morn¬ing, as Wallace was lamenting over the fate of hiscountry, an English leader rode up to him, and de¬manded what he was doing there; but his onlyanswer was the unsheathing of his sword, and theEnglishman fell to rise no more. Wallace mountedhis victim’s horse, rode across the plain, and theroad being everywhere beset with the English, whohad witnessed the deed, Wallace’ fearlessly dashedthrough their ranks, slew 20 of them, and made hisescape. Arriving on the banks of the Forth, thoughwearied and bleeding, he dauntlessly plunged intothe river, and arrived at the house of a widow, anold acquaintance. Next day he sent to some of hisfriends at Dunipace for money and other necessarieswhich he required, and instantly his uncle deli¬vered them in person. The meeting of Kierly andStephen with their conquering hero can be more easilyconceived than described. The patriotic band nowconsisted of Kierly, Stephen, the widow’s two sons,12THE HISTORY OFand Wallace, who bent their way to Sir John Graham’sat Dundaffheath, whose son, a brave and hardyyouth, volunteered to follow the gallant Wallace.Our hero declined his services for the present, hutpromised to inform hirn when he had gathered suf¬ficient force to face> the foe. <Arriving at his nephew’s at Kilbank, he sent in¬formation to his numerous friends throughout thecountry, who speedily flocked around their chief¬tain’s standard; While he remained here he fre¬quently rwent in disguise to Ldchmaben, where oneClifford, with insolence and cruelty, bore the chiefcommand. During one of his visits he was enragedat seeing the commander using his authority witha malicious intent to disgrace his countrymen; hedrew his well-tried sword, and slow the usurpingtyrant. The enemy assembling to the pursuit, lioflew to inform his valiant followers of their approach.They hastened to the nearest thickets to preservethemselves as much as possible from the enemy’sfury. The armies met, and the Scots dealt destruc¬tion around, reducing the. English to such a degree,that they were about giving way, when the gallantMoreland arrived with reinforcements to their aid.The Scots, being closely herirmed in, resolved to con¬quer or to die. The English, encouraged by thepresence of their warlike deader, renewed the com¬bat with equal fury, Wallace burst through thetumultuous crowd, and laid the gallant Morelandprostfate ou the field, which caused the enemy togive way on every side, and flee before the victo¬rious Scots. Scarcely had they enjoyed a moment ofcongratulation, when the enemy again appearedunder the haughty-: Graystock. The Scots, thoughwearied with, the long contest, remained unshaken,and prepared again for the attack. At this eventfulmoment .the young Graham appeared with an armedretinue to support his friends; the English wererepulsed with dreadful slaughter, and retreated beforethe thrice victorious band. The Scots, in the deadSIR WIMilAM WALLACE.J3of night, attacked and took the town ; and* afterrefreshing themselves, reduced the fort, and tooktheir route towards the castle of Crawford, which,after slaying a great number of the enemy, they re¬duced to ashes-. After several inconsiderable skir¬mishes* the little arnly dispersed for the winter,-and agreed, td repair to (Ijanark and its neighbour¬hood, find to assemble at' tbeir chieftain’s signal/Wallace repaired to Lanark, and was soon marriedto his lovely bride, who told him of the brutal anddeceitful arts of Hazelrigg, the' English leader, towin her. During the winter Wallace remained dis-'guised, and , would often have delivered his wifefrom Such an unwelcome Visitor as Hazelrigg, butprudence caused him to delay the fatal blow.The time hadsnow arrived when he was to meet hisfollowers ; and<-after taking; a farewell of his youngwife, whom lie informed tbalrhfc had a chosen bandto conduct; her to a place of safety, hri/proceededthrough the plain,'I4nd choosing an elevated situa¬tion, he raised his horn, and blew a shrill blast thatrent the air. He was soon surrounded by his fol¬lowers ; and after a short hut very impressive ad¬dress from their leader, they alarmed the enemywith their shouts, and swore to follow the immortalWallace. Alarmed at these sudden preparations,Hazelrigg, with 1000 well-clad warriors, marchedto seek the: daring foe; but, being disappointed inthe pursuit, hg returned to the town, where he wasinformed that the lady to, whom he was paying hisaddresses was the lawful wife of Wallace, and thathe had .been concealed in disguise several months,he repaired to her house, atid stained his. hands1 inher innocent blood. The doleful news were sooncommunicated to Wallace, which over whelmed I hhnand his followers for a moment with sorrow phut asthe night was approaching, they resolved to marchinto ' the town,, and surprise their enemies rwhiledrowned in sleep. They arrived without being ob¬served, and, having separated into two divisions,THE HISTORY OT14attacked the town in various parts. Wallace hav¬ing broken open the gate, the Scots rushed in, andmade dreadful havoc among the terror-stricken ene¬my. Sir /John Graham, having the command ofthe second division, entered another part, and com¬mitted the dwellings of the English to the flames.Wallarfei bathed his sword in Hazelrigg’s blood,while Graham dispatched Horn, the second in com¬mand. The conquerors, having reduced the town,encamped on a neighbouring plain.Edward, alarmbd at the success of the patriots,collected a numerous army, and repaired to Big^ar,in order to give them battle. The Scottish army,greatly augmented, with confidence proceeded tomeet the English. They were encamped on a wideextended plain, atid Wallace took an advantageousposition on a neighbouring height, whose men onlyappeared as a handftil when Compared with theEnglish. Wallace addressed his trusty friends, and,painting the injuries of their ill-fated country inlively coloiirs, exhorted them to seek redress uponthe author of all their calamities, who now stoodbefore them surrounded by his haughty troops;The battle commenced, and both armies fought withgreat bravery, blit the result was the defeat of theEnglish army, the shattered remains of which re¬turned with Edward to England. Worn out Avithdefeats, and driven from almost every strong post inthe kingdom, the English sued for peace, Avhich Avasconcluded at Rutherglen Church in February 1297;but it Avas of short duration, the English being sostrongly bent upon the conquest of Scotland.In June 1297 took place that memorable eventknoAAm by the Barns of Ayr. The English had in¬vited the Scottish nobility and gentry in the AA-esternparts to meet them for the purpose of friendly con¬ference upon the affairs of the nation, in some largebuildings, called the Bams of Ayr. ■ Many of theScotch gentlemen in the neighbourhood attended,several of whom were accused of felony, condemned,SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.15ind executed. Among those who were executedwas Sir Roland Crawford, sheriff of Ayr, and uncle1:0 Wallace. Those who escaped informed Wallace>f the dreadful catastrophe, who immediately as¬sembled 50 of his followers, entered Ayr in thebight, and set fire to the place when many of theEnglish were asleep ; the garrison issuing forth fell.nto an ambush, and were put to the sword. Wal-ace and his men instantly seized the fort, and thennarched to Glasgow, attacked Lord Percy,-and com-oletely routed his forces. Being now placed at thelead of a considerable army, he marched to Stirling,md took the castle. Argyle and Lorn, with theidjacent country, -were soon in his possession ; Perth,with the neighbouring places, were soon recovered.Penetrating into Angus and Meams, he took anddemolished the castles of Forfar, Brechin, and Mon¬trose. By an unexpected assault, he carried Dun-no,ttar, which he garrisoned. When he approached1 Aberdeen it was all in flames, the English havingi »et it on fire, being afraid of his coming.Learning that the English, with an army of110,000, among whom were many disaffected Scotch¬men, were approaching Stirling, Wallace stationed: Ins troops on an advantageous place upon a hill abovei the monastery of Cambuskenneth, on the north sidebf the Forth. This river has no passable fords at this.place, and the only passage was by a wooden bridge,nearly a mile above where the present bridge is situ¬ated. The English sent two Dominican Friars to^Wallace, to offer a pardon to him and his men ifi they would lay down their arms. Their terms were,however, degrading and insulting both to the hon-iour and independence of the Scottish nation, anditherefore rejected with becoming disdain. “ Go,tell your officers,” said the unflinching Wallace,I “that the Scots came not here to treat for peace,ibiit prepared for battle, and are determined to avengetour wrongs, and set our country free from the ironlyoke of Edward! Let them but advance, and toTHE HISTORY OP16their faces we will tell so much.” Incensed at thibold and detetirtined reply, the English exclaimecseeing such a handful of men, “They are all olown; let us instantly charge them,” ■ Cressinghaiiavith the greater part of his army, had crossed tkbridge, which, as some writers affirm, either by tl:contrivance of workmen, who, a little before, hallloosened the joints Of the beams that they coaid nilisustainr'a greatwfeight, or, by the pressure of smany horse, foot, and carriages, without any str£tagem at all, gave way, and interrupted the marcof the English army. Before their ranks weiformed, the Scots instantly attacked those who hapassed, and having slain their leader, drove threst back, into the river with such havoc, that tbwhole 'were put to the sword or perished in tblriver. After this battle, Wallace immediately rtturned to the: besieging of castles, and in a shottime so cpanged the fortune of war, that there remained no Englishmen in Scotland, except as prsoners. This victory was so complete, and so in'portant in its consequences, that the Scots who hadeserted-to the; English submitted to Wallace, althailed him as the deliverer of his country. Berwiaand Roxburgh alone resisted, but being deserteby their garrison, they snort threw open their gat(to our victorious hero. In this: manner, in the shoi |space of fburteen months after King John had beef 1deposed, his kingdom subdued, and constrained tl iacknowledge a foreign prince, did Wallace, with-jfew brave men, restore the nation to her ancier jliberty and independence.The fields lying uncultivated, a famine followe dthis devastation, and a plague followed the famimiwhence a greater number of deaths, it was fearer Iwould ffri^sjf than from the war. Wallace, to allclviate these'calamities as much as possible, ordered a. Ithe youngtneu capable of bearingarms to meet bin 1on a edrtain day, when he led them into Englanr Ithinking .they would acquirer hhiltli and strength b ‘S1K -WILLIAM WALLACE.17the exercise; and that by living in the enemy’scountry during the winter, provisions at home wouldbe spared. No one dared to oppose him when hei entered England ; and having remained there fromi the 1st of November to the 1st of February, refresh-i ing his men with the forage of the enemy, and en-i rich ing them with their spoils, he returned homeI surrounded with glory. This expedition, as it in-I creased the renown and authority of Wallace amongI the people, so it excited against him the envy of the 'nobles; for his praises appeared to reproach the highand powerful ohieftains either with cowardice fornot daring, or with treachery for being unwilling, to; attempt what a gentleman in low circumstances, anddestitute of every advantage of fortune, had not onlybravely undertaken but suecessfiilly accomplished,j With an army of 1500 cavalry and 20,000i; infantry, Edward-marched-against Wallace, who inI the mean time was collecting his chosen troops,r rallied, and near Stanmore came in view of thei mighty monarch. Edward’s army appeared incredi-li-bly numerous; the soldiers’ armour glittering, the| officers’ equipage rich and elegant, and the noise of| their drums pompous and terrible. Wallace com-nmanded all, upon pain of death, to keep their ranks,II to march with gravity, and to attempt nothingi without his orders. The veteran and experiencedi-soldiers of Edward had not arrived from France,■rand perceiving the order, discipline^ and formidable;j appearance of the enemy, every officer and man act¬ing the part of a hero, Edward durst not hazard hisow n glory with an undisciplined militia, and there¬fore wisely retreated. The fame of this bloodlessIvictory obtained over so powerful a king incensedIds enemies much more bitterly, who now widelyreported that he was beginning openly to aspire tothe Crown. The nobles, on hearing this report, be-f.came indignant, particularly Bruce and Comyn, who,j belonging to the blood-royal, determined to. under-imine the authority of Wallace. Edward, aware ofTUB HISTORY! OF]«tlieir dispositions, raised a large army, and nextsummer came to Falkirk, about 11 miles t'rxjm Stir¬ling. The Scottish army was not far distant, andsufficiently powerful, being 30,000 strong, if theirleaders had been united among themselves. Butthere were three commanders,—Johu Comyn, John,Stewart, and William Wallace ; and when the armywas drawn out in three lines in order of battle, acontention arose who should lead the first linoagainst the enemy. While no one would yield tothe other, the English, with their banners unfurled,*advanced rapidly towards them. Comyn and hismen retreated without attempting to fight. Sir Join:Stewart and his. vassals fought bravely, and diethonourably. Unable to rescue Stewart or to withstand the enemy, and the Earl of Garrick havingnearly surrounded him, Wallace retreated, antpassed the small river Carron, which the enemydurst not pass in his presence. By this dexterommanoeuvre, he not only saved his own men, but ulscthose of Stewart who fied to him, and by keepinghimself in the rear, with his eye fixed on those whopursued, he cut several of them off, particularly outFrere Brian Jay, a Knight Templar, upon whom hiturned, and slew in sight of the victorious armyThis intrepid and bold action taught others to keejat a respectable distance. During the pursuit, whilWallace and Bruce stood on different sides of thwater of Carron, Bruce addressed him, saying,am greatly surprised, Sir William, that you shoulever entertain the idea of attaining the ScottisCrown.” “No,” interrupted Wallace, “my thoughtnever soared so high : I only mean to deliver mcountry from oppression and slavery, and supportcause which you have abandoned. But pause in timeif you have but the heart, you may win a crown wotglory, and wear it with justice. I can do neither,but this I will do, I will live and die a free-boisubject.” This speech made a deep impression upon the mind of Bruce. The conference was sudSIR WILLI AM WALLACE. J i)idenly interrupted by the approach of a hostile bodybf horse.The number of English present at the engage¬ment is stated at 90,000 men, while the Scottisharmy did not amount to 30,000. The loss on bothsides was very great. Amongst the slain on theScottish side none was more sincerely mourned thanSir John Graham, the bosom-friend of Wallace,who, giving way to his usual gallantry, had advancedtoo far, was surrounded, and slain. Wallace, havingwithdrawn his troops to a place of safety, returned tothe battle-field in search of his beloved friend, whomhe passionately loved ; and when he found him, helifted him in his arms, and gave vent to his feelings.tiQn July 22, 1298, was this fatal battle fought;nand in the churchyard of Falkirk was Sir Johni Graham buried, a tombstone still marking the place.Wallace, reflecting upon the conversation whichhe had with Bruce, in which he unjustly chargedhim with an attempt upon the Crown, and in order,if possible to unite the jarring nobles, .to convincethem and all future ages that he had no. sinister de¬signs upon the Crown, which belonged to another, hei .called an assembly of the barons and other noblemenI irt the kingdom at Perth, and there resigned bothi his important trust as guardian of the kingdom andr his chief command of the army. No part of W allace’si history is more difficult to trace than after he relin-1 (pushed his public command. Some suppose thati.he retired to France after the memorable battle of1 Roslin. There was at that period a strong alliance>|between France and Scotland; and it is reportedI that Philip the Fair of France, allured by the fame'jjof our hero, invited Wallace to the French Court.He sailed, according to report, from Kirkcudbright1 with 50 of his faithful followers, and, in the courseI of the voyage, fell in with Red River the pirate,W whom he captured by a combination of valour andft stratagem. Wallace obtained Longueville’s, whichw was the pirate’s true name, pardon from the French20Tfin ITlStORV OPKing, ttnd soon retumed to life iiiitive land. Having landed at Jlontrose with his brave oonipnniondaccompanied by Longtieville, who woiVH never 3e:part from him, t)iey were joined by vSir-John IhunsajRuthven, Bisset, and others, all of A\ hom determineunder his bannef to deliver their country Or fall ifthe vigorous attempt. While lying in ambushthe vicinity of Perth, it fortunately happened tsix English servants chme forth from the town wit :empty carts to convey hajf into the town. Instant!!slaying the. servants, six of them were arrayed itheir upper garments, the carfs vverd loaded1, and a,many as possible lodged themselves among the haand the1 rest were placed ih ambush. As soontheyeritered the town, Wallace slew theporter, a«'secured an entrance fOr hiJ men, wlfo spread dostructiioti arrtong the English, and so terrified thremainder, that the governor. Sir John Stewart, fleihy the opposite gate to the wood of Methven. ' Onhundred took refuge in the church, but were slainBy this Successful adventure, Wallace acquireimuch booty and! a military station of vast importanttb future conquests. They now proceeded towardFife, and reduced the several towns and castles iithat populous country. A party of the Englishhowever, took shelter in Lochleven Castle, aritWallace, determining to dislodge them, selectedeighteen of his bravest men, and inarched toward*it during the darkness of the night. He strippetied his sword about his neck, and swam over tothe isle, cut the rope of their boat, brought it overand conveyed his men in safety to the castle, whiclie took, and spared none but the women and cfoildreri. Returning to Perth he was informed thahis uncle was imprisoned by one Thomas Weir, £cruel English captain, who commanded 100 merat Perth. Walrace sent a trusty messenger to ex 'plore the Tay tb discover some mode of crossingbud fortunately met with a fisherman, who readilyembarked in the cause when he knew he belongeSIR. WILLIAM WALLACE.21to Wallace, and resolved to liberate bis uncle. .Henot only conveyed them over in his’boat, but con-iducted them to Airthhill, a place of strength, andthen over ft! small'bridge to Weir’s house, whomWallace immediately dispatched at a blow, whilehis men slew all the rest. They hastened to thecave, where Wallace’s uncle was confined and boundin fetters, whom they instantly r’eleased.Wallace next marched to Dumbarton in the night,.and called upon a widow whom-he knew, who re¬ceived him and his men with great kindness, andconcealed them in abarn with the greatest secrecy.She presented her nine sons, who were young andstrong, to Wallace to increase his men; and, atWallace’s request, she marked all the doors wheretfthe English were lodged, and commencing with anEnglish captain, who, with his mates, were carousingin a public-house, he set on fire all the houses where:the English were quartered, and fled to.Dumbartoncave before day. They next bent their way toKqSeneath Castle, and having, slain more than 80 ofi the English, who were returning from a wedding,ilhey entered the castle with those who escaped, slew,ievery Englishman found, in it, and set fire to the,castle. The dawn of returning prosperity broughtifriends around the illustrious hero. Sir WilliamDouglas, who had been constrained to marry ahEnglishJady and to submit to Edward, hearing thatWallace wat again in the field and likely to rescue(Scotland, he, by the means of a trusty man of thename of Dickson, took Sanquhar by stratagem, andamt every man to the sword. Being inclosed- in thescastle, he dispatched Dickson to Wallace, to entreatibis speedy relief. Wallace now began his march!south, and cut off Revindale, an English captain,illvho, with 200 men, were in the vicinity of Kilsyth.In the same route he burnt the towns of Linlith-feow, Dalkeith, and Newcastle, expelling the EnglishKvherever he came. The friends of Wallace nowjbegaa daily to increase] among whom were the re-THE HISTORY OF22nowned Lauder and Seaton, who, during the daj jof usurpation had fortified themselves in the Bas lupon the intelligence of Wallace’s success issueforth from their retreat, burned North Berwick, an <joined Wallace, who proceeded to Peebles, whet <he was teinforced by the brave Hugh Hay with a jiAnd Rutherford with 60 men. Just at this tim kDickson, who was dispatched by Sir William Dough ’from Sanquhar to request the speedy assistance iWallace, arrived, and informed him of the imminei ■danger of his master. Wallace, without a moment idelay, marched to his aid ; the English, who besiegi »Sanquhar Castle, when they heard of his coming, fle iwith all possible speed. Being informed of the itroute, he, with 300 horsemen, leaving Earl Malcoln Iwho had joined him, to come up with the remainiripart of the army, came up with the enemy at Clqs* tburn, and routed them. Upon the appearance tMalcolm, the flight of the English became universawhile the Scots pursued and slew all who came itheir way. During the long pursuit, the hors« ifailed through fatigue; the men pursued like lior ifon foot. While Wallace was thus yielding his swoi fin defence of his native country, and rapidly effecing her deliverance, Edward, convinced of the (lift (culty, if not the impossibility, of conquering Walla( tby the sword, had recourse to other measures. ]||this attempt he employed every man in his powe -and every person in his influence ; nor did he doul Jbut those measures, and bribes, and promises, an ihonours, which gained the services and submissiaof others, would also, in time, prove successful wit 1Wallace. He accordingly courted Wallace wit 'large and magnificent promises of honour and wealtlplaces and pension, but all in vain. His constan i;reply to his friends and the emissaries of Edwar Iwho dared to address him on the subject, was, “ Thshe owed his life to, and wrould willingly lay it dow'tfor, his country; that should all Scotchmen hihimself submit to the King of England, he nev«Sin WILLJAM WALLACE.23iwovltl; nor would he give obedience, or yield alje-igiauce to any power, except tq tjie King of Scotland,iiliis rightful sovereign.” The noble virtue of an in-jjdividual is severely ipatehed with the base intrigueI of a powerful monarch. Sir John Monteith, whose[ name deserves oply a place among the basest of thehuman race, proved the traitor. Wallace havingplaced the most unbounded confidence in this man,: he, the perfidious villain, .conducted a party of Eng¬lishmen to the place of his lonely retreat at Robroy-iSton, about three miles north-west of Glasgow, whileour hero was accompanied by only his faithful friendiKarle and a,young man related to Monteith., At the dead hour of midnight, while the two un¬daunted heroes lay fast asleep, this young traitor,iwhose turn it was to watch, cautiously removed-the, bugle from the neck of Wallace, and conveyed it,ialong with his arms, through an aperture of theiwall; then slowly opening the door, two men-atarms silently entered, and, seizing upon Karle,iihurried him from the apartment. Wallace awokeiwith the noise, but finding himself armless a\id sur-nrounded by a great number of the enemy, he was|iinduced, through a stratagem on Monteith’s part, toaccompany him as a prisoner to Dumbarton, where,i|he said, he would undertake for the safety of hisI person on the morrow. Next day, however, noMonteith appeared to exert his influence to preventthe hero being carried from the fortress.Thus the brave, the generous, the disinteresteddeliverer of his country was seized, and afterwardsConveyed to London. As he passed through1 England, great multitudes of men, women, andchildren assembled from all quarters to gaze on theillustrious prisoner. Arriving in London, he wasj conducted to the house of William Delect, in Fen-i church Street. The day following, August 23,1305,(the was brought on.horseback to Westminster, ac-J)| companied by several knights, the mayor, sheriil's,f| and aldermen of the city, with many others of eini-24 THE HISTORY Ofr SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.nence and rank, in presence of all of whom he wasplaced on the south bench of thS great hall ; andeither because they "wished the people to believe'that he had aspired to the Grown of Scotland, or thatit was reported that he said he deserved to wear acrown there, they crotvned him in derision withlaurel, while Sir Peter Malorie, the chief-Justioe,impeached him with high'treason. Wallace boldlyreplied, “ That a traitor he never was, nor could be1to the King of England." The burning of towns,storming of castles, killing' the English, and othersofa similar nature, he frankly acknowledged. These :heroic virtues were' declared capital 'crimes ; andthough the prisoner had never acknowledged norsubmitted to the laws of England, yet he was tried bythem, and Unjustly condemned to be hanged, drawn,and quartered, and while alive; to have his bowelscut out, which was accordingly done with the ut¬most cruelty and barbarity, liis head was fixed onLondon Bridge, and the four quarters of his bodywere placed on the gates of as many of the principalcities of his native country. Such Was the end ofa man by far the most pre-eminent'in 'the times inwhich he lived; who,'for greatness of'soulin under-*taking, and* wisdom and fortitude in conductingperilous enterprises, may be'compared vvith themost illustrious leaders of antiquity. In love to hiscountry, inferior to none of the most eminent an¬cient patriots f* amid the general slavery, Ac stoodalone unsubdued arid free; and neither could re¬wards induce*nor terrors force him to desert thepublic cauSe which he had once undertaken; andhis death wfls the more grievous, because,'uncon¬quered by his enemies, he fell, betrayed by thosewhom he least suspected. But, although- Edwardprocured the death of the valorous Wallace, Scot¬land was not deserted GBriide assumed the reins ofgovernment, and restored her td'her former inde¬pendence.— f See Bryclones History <>j King RobertBrace, No. 15.J