Shepherd s Daughter .TO which'are addeb,THE SAILOR’S RETURN.THE GOWN OF G R E'E N.FOOLISH FORT, A HEART.%'M,^ W W W ’ ^ **Ft >a^ i$y rfr \ 'OGLASGOW,Printfij by J. bf. Robertfon, Snkift?rket, t°or( a )The SHEPHERD'S DAUGHTER.**|p HER E war. a (hepberd’s daughter,JL kept fheep on yonder hill. 4There was a knight and he was bright,who fain would have his will.CHORUS.And ling O ro malando,, crying, O ro follow me.Go follow me to the begging green,my own dear Lamachree.He has Usen her by the milk-white hand,sod has gently laid her down,And when he got hi * wiil of her,he took her up again. And &c.Now (nice you’ve got your wiil of me,and brought my bocy to fhame,You’ll be fc good, kind Sir, indeed,as tell to me your qtane. Attd &c.Sometimes they rail me J;u,k, 1 < fays,other litres ti ey rail me John,But when I’m in the King’s court,they call me fweet William. And See,Then the took up her petticoats,u liule above her knee,And (he’s away to the King’s court,as fait as fhe could hie. And See,( 3 >When Gie came to the King’s court,{he knocked at the pin.There was none (q neady as the King,to let this maiden in. /ladO what's ycur will with, tre Madam ?O what’s your will with me ?Sir, there’s a man into your court,this day has robbed me. And &c«O has he robb’d you of your gold,or yet your penny fee,Or has he robb’d ttise of thy maidenhead,the flower of thy body. dud &c.He has not robb’d me of my gold,nor yet of my penny fee.But he’s robb’d me of my maidenhead,the flower ot my body. And &s.O its if he be a married man,its hanged he muff be,But if he he a batchelor,thy hufbaud he. dull be- Aad &c.O the King has call’d out his merry mem ad,by thirty and by three.Sweet VViliiam he should been foretnoft man,the lad n;an he but three. And &c»Then he’s ta’en out a poife of gold,and told it ou a ttoue,Saying, Take up that my dcareft dear, .nn l go thou thy ways home. And &c„( 4 )I want none of your purfe of gokf,you’ve told on a (lone to me,Bnt ( will have your fair body,the King has granted me. And &c.Then he*s ra’cn out a purfe of gold,and tokl it ia a glove.Saying, Take you that nay deareft dear,go feek aaorhcr love And &c.I want none of yoiir purfe of gold.you told ia a glove to me.3ut I will have your fair body,the King has granted me. Aad &c.Then he’s m’eu out a purfe of gold,and told it on his knee,Paying, Fake you that my dearefl: dear,you’ll get no more of me. And &c»i villi I had drunk of the water,when f drunk of the wine.That- e’er a ihcpherd’s daughter,Iheuld'beeh a loser of mine. And SiCi0 win, a die came to her father's gate,•where Ihe did reckon kin,She was the Queen of fair Scotland,• and l'.e fbut a gdidfmith's ion. And See*Xll£ SAILOR' vS R E V U R N.IE T Fqps protend in flames to m*!t,^ And talk of pain they never Kk,We Sailors fcorn vihguife and art,A.?;d with on/ h.andi he flow oar heart,-f. 5 )Let L.ioies prudiLilly deny,Look cold, and give their tongue the iye/I own the paflion in ray breaft.And long to make my lover blefs'd.For thiy ih? Sailor on the mafl:.Endures the cold and cutting blafl,All dropping wet throughout the night,And braves the fury of the fight.For this the Virgin pines and fighs.With throbbing heart and ilrearaing eyes,* Fis fweet rivers of joy Ihe proves.And dafps the tender laddhe loves.Ye Sriiifh youths, be brave, you’ll findsThe Britifli Virgins will prove kind:I Protect their beauty from all harms,t And they’ll reward you with their charms.THE GOWN OF G R E E N.O O M E people fpeak of Heftor’s deedsO and 'llexander’s fame,Some of proud Nero’s tyrannies,btat no fuch thing we’ll name jBat liften- and I will declare,as brielly as I can,The only falhron now in vogue,is call’d the gown of green.Young women they are tickle things,when they begin to wooThe mote ycu follow after them,the more they fly from you;A( 6 )But turn your back? upon them, boys,acd do not then; pursue,Give them the gown of green to wear,and then they’ll follow you.Some men to pleafe their mitlreffes,will ouy them rufilcs and rings,Some jewels and fine ornaments,and other coftly things;But he that would her favour gain,muff ufe his bed endeavour.To give her a gown of green to wear,and fhe’ll be yours for ever.My love ihe’s tall and handfome,file’s comely ia her drefs.She thinks herfelf a comely girl,indeed 1 think no Ids;Her roly cheeks and dimpled chia,her age is juft fixteen.Yet flruggling did at laft confent,to take the gown of green.• My true love and I was walking,a Hide bit out of town,We fpy’d a bank of fragrant flowers,wete gently prefTcd down ;She fmilicg unto me did fay,fotne body here Pas been,Or elfe feme gentle fhepherdefs,getting a gown of greenWhen Adam fudl created was,none ia the world but he.( 7 )| Our mother Eve (he was his bride,and fu'J of mode Pi y ;! No beds of down for them was made,but ju(l a fhw’ry plain,i No wonder then her daughters loveto take the gown of green.' This gown of green it is fo rare,?tis never out of faftiibo1 *Tis worn by Lords and Gentlemen,and Ladies of high haiion ;I'ji'or e’er ft ice .Vdam vras a boy,this thing has ever been,' * Pis worn by every nation, boys,and tail’d tne gown of green.FOOL I s H F O 11 V, A ii E A R T.1 7 "P I -> now fince I fat d nvn before,^ this fooli»h Fort, a Heart,1 (Vime flrangely (pent) a year or more,and ftili I did nty part.1 Made my approaches, from her hand,unto her lip did rife ;! And did already underftandthe language of her eyes.1 Proceeding on with no Ids art,my tongue was engineer;1 thought to undermine the heart,by whifp’ring in the f ar.. 8 }When this did nothing, l brought down,great cannon, oaths, and /ho:,A thouLtndj thoofand to the town,and fiiti it yielded notI then refoh ’d to fl.arte the place,by catting ofT all kiiTesjPraifing and gazing on her face,‘with ail fuch little blefles.To draw her out, and from her flrength,1 drew all hat tries in,And brought myfelf to tie at length,as if no fiege had been.When I had dene what man could do,and thought the place my own,The enemy lay quiet too,and hail’d at all was done.I fent to know from whence and where,tliefe hopes, and this relief:A. fpy inform'd, Honour was there,and did command ia chief.March,march,quoth l, the. word ftraiglit give,let's !ofe no time, but leave her;That Giant upon air will live,and hold it out for ever.To fuch a place our camp remove,as will no fiege abide ;1 hate a fool that itarves her love,only to feed her pride.Printed by J, 5c M IVobertfon, Saltmarkef, 1802.