THEMonthly Scrap Book,FOR FEBRUARY.Now shifting gales with milder influence blow.Cloud o’er the skies, and melt the falling snow ;The soften’d earth with fertile moisture teems.And, freed from icy bonds, down rush the swelling streams.contents;The unfortunate Loves of a Cabbage & Cauliflower, 2The Panther, an American Tale,    3Candlemas in Scotland, 9The Man o’ th’ Leather,—concluded,   13Variety of Short Scraps 19Important„Hints respecting Cholera,   23Garden Work to be done in February, 24DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER.1832Price One Penny.THE UNFORTUNATE UOVES OF A CABBAGE ANDA CAULIFLOWER.A much admired Recitation.A cabbage loved a cauliflower,(How far beyond my ill use’s powerTo tell how much he loved,)‘ Oh 1 list unt® a lover true,To one whose heart was formed lor you,’He said,—she seemed unmoved,‘ Ah ! think not ’cause my wounds are green,I speak thus warmly, fairest queen,Nor think me insincere;Ah, no ! my love is firmly 'rooted,Nor is there one so aptly suitedTo be my wife, my dear.’Said she, ‘ I heard the gardener sayYour heart xeos hard, the other day,\ Then pray can you love but me ?*Said Cab, ‘ you did not comprehend'T he gardener, lore, you may depend.Did merely wish to cut me.’1 Oh !’ then the Cauliflower sigh’d,‘ Do you deem worthy for your bride,One of such small renown ?’Of small renown ! what is’t you say ?The gardener said but t’other day,Your head was worth a cre-vn,‘ Then take roe for thy wife, my love,’‘ O rapture 1 can 1 ever rove ? »Oh no 1 I swear by Venus !But, love, our distance,’ Cabbage csied,* Our distance »’ cried the lovely hrids,T We’ve but one bed between us.’How little thought the luckless pair,The cruel gardener was near,(He came at set of sun).His knife from leathern case be drew,And cut off both these lovers true,For fear that they should run.Univcnal Reciter.f*'THEIHONTHIY SCRAP BOOK.%THE PANTHER.An American Tale.The Panther, the name of which is chosen for the title ofour story, is a native of the New World, and is more distinc-tively known as the “ Jaguarbut from the similarity of itsappearance and habits to the Panther of our hemisphere, hasacquired its name. It is considered as one of the most for¬midable quadrupeds of the new continent.Elisabeth Temple and Louisa proceededalong the margin of the precipice, catching oc¬casional glimpses of the placid Otsego, or paus¬ing to listen to the rattling of wheels and thesounds of hammers, that rose from the valley, tomingle the signs of men with the scenes of na¬ture ; when Elizabeth suddenly started, andi exclaimed—‘ Listen ! there are the cries of a child on this! mountain ! Is there a clearing near us ? or cansome little one have strayed from its parents ?’‘Such things frequently happen,’ returnedLouisa. ‘ Let us follow the sounds ; it may bea wanderer, starving on the hill.’Urged by this consideration, the females pur¬sued the low mournful sounds that proceededfrom the forest, with quick and impatient steps.More than once, the ardent Elizabeth was onthe point of announcing, that she saw the suf-fereiwhen Louisa caught her by the arm, and,pointing behind them, cried—‘ Look at the dog {4 THE MONTHLYBrave had been their companion, from thetime the voice of his young mistress lured him;from his kennel to the present moment. Hisadvanced age had long before deprived him ofhis activity ; and when his companions stoppedto view the scenery, or to add to their bouquets,the mastiff would lay his huge frame on theground, and await their movements, with hiseyes closed, and a listlessness in his air that ill ac¬corded with the character of a protector, Butwhen, aroused by this cry from Louisa, MissTemple turned, she saw the dog with his eyeskeenly set on some distant object, his head bentnear the ground, and his hair actually rising onhis body, either through fright or anger. Itwas most probably the latter ; for he was growl¬ing in a low key, and occasionally shewing histeeth, in a manner that would have terrified hismistress, had she not so well known his goodqualities.e Brave !’ she said, ‘ be quiet, Brave ! whatdo you see, fellow ?’At the sounds of her voice, the rage of themastiff, instead of being at all diminished, wasvery sensibly increased. He stalked in front ofthe ladies, and seated himself at the feet of hismistress, growling louder than before and oc¬casionally giving vent to his ire by a shortsurly barking.* What does he see ?’ said Elizabeth j ‘ theremust be some animal in sight.’SCRAP BOOK.Hearing no answer from her companion.Miss Temple turned her head, and beheldLouisa, standing with her face whitened to thecolour of death, and her finger pointing upward,with a sort of flickering, convulsed motion. I hequick eye of Elizabeth glanced in the directionindicated by her friend, where she saw the fiercefront and glaring eyes of a female panther, fixedon them in horrid malignity, and threatening in¬stant destruction.‘ Let us fly !’ exclaimed Elizabeth, graspingthe hand of Louisa, whose form yielded likemelting snow, and sunk lifeless to the earth.There was not a single feeling in the tempera¬ment of Elizabeth Temple that could prompther to desert a companion in such an extremity ;and she fell on her knees, by the side of the in¬animate Louisa, tearing from the person of herfriend, with an instinctive readiness, such partsof her dress as might obstruct her respiration,and encouraging their only safeguard, the dog,at the same time, by the sounds of her voice.‘ Courage, Brave 1’ she cried, her own tonesbeginning to tremble ; ‘ courage, courage, goodBrave!’A quarter-grown cub, that had hitherto beenunseen, now appeared dropping from the bran¬ches of a sapling, that grew under the shade ofthe beech which held its dam, "ibis ignorant,but vicious creature approached near the dog,imitating the actions and sounds of its parent,o TfJ£ MONTHI/rbut exhibiting a strange mixture of the playful-!ness of a kitten vrith the ferocity of its race.—Standing on its hind legs, it would rend the barkof a tree with its fore-paws, and play all the an¬tics of a cat for a moment; and then, by lash¬ing itself with its tail, growling and scratchingthe earth, it would attempt the manifestations ofanger that rendered its parent so terrific.All this time Brave stood firm and undaunted,his short tail erect, his body drawn backward onits haunches, and his eyes following the move¬ments of both dam and cub. At every gambolplayed by the latter, it approached nigher to thedog, the growling of the three becoming morehorrid at each moment, until the younger beast, ,overleaping its intended bound, fell directly be-fore the mastiff. There was a moment of fear. •ful cries and struggles, but they ended almost as fsoon as they commenced by the cub appearing inthe air, hurled from the jaws of Brave, with aviolence that sent it against a tree so forcibly, asto render it completely senseless.Elizabeth witnessed the short struggle, andher blood was warming with the triumph of thedog. when she saw the form of the old pantherin the air, springing twenty feet from the branchof the beech to the back of the mastiff. Nowords of ours can describe the fury of the con¬flict that followed. It was a confused struggleon the dried leaves, accompanied by loud and ter¬rible cries, barks, and growls. Miss Templecontinued on her knees, bending over the formSCRAP BOOK. 7'of Louisa, her eyes fixed on the animals with aninterest so horrid, and yet so intense, that shealmost forgot her own stake in the result. Sorapid and vigorous were the bounds of the inhabi¬tant of the forest, that its active frame seemedconstantly in the air, while che dog nobly facedhis foe, at each successive leap. When the pan¬ther lighted on the shoulders of the mastiff,which was its constant aim, old Brave, thoughtom with her talons and stained with his ownblood, that already flowed from a dozen wounds,would shake off his furious foe, like a feather,and rearing on his hind legs, rush to the fray a-gain with his jaws distended and a dauntless eye.But age and his pampered life greatly disquali¬fied the uoble mastiff for such a struggle. Inevery thing but courage he was only the vestagei of what he had once been. A higher boundthan ever raised the wary and furious beast farbeyond the reach of the dog, who was makinga desperate but fruitless dash at her, from whichshe alighted in a favourable position on the backof her aged foe. For a single moment, only,could the panther remain there, the great strengthof the dog returning with a convulsive effort.But Elizabeth saw, as Brave fastened his teethin the side of his enemy, that the collar of brass! around his neck, which had been glitteringthroughout the fray, was of the colour of blood,and directly that his frame was sinking to theearth, where it soon lay prostrate and helpless.Several mighty efforts of the wild cat to extri-8 THE MONTHLYcate herself from the jaws of the dog followed,but they were fruitless, until the mastiiF turnedon his back, his lips collapsed, and his teethloosened ; when the short convulsions and still¬ness that succeeded, announced the death ofipoor Brave.Elizabeth now lay wholly at the mercy of thebeast. I here is said to be something- in thefront of the image of the Maker that dauuts the:hearts of the inferior beings of his creation ; andit would seem that some such power, in thepresent instance, suspended the threatening blow.1 he eyes of the monster and the kneeling mai¬den met, for an instant; when the former stoopedto examine her fallen foe, next to scent her luck¬less cub. From the latter examination it turned,however, with its eyes apparently emitting flashesof fire, its tail lashed its sides furiously, and itsclaws projecting four inches from its broad feet.Miss Temple did not, or could not move.Her hands were clasped in the attitude of prayer,but her eyes were still drawn to her terrible ene- ■my ; her cheeks were blanched to the whitenessof marble, and her lips were slightly separatedwith horror. The moment seemed now to havearrived for the fatal termination ; and the beauti¬ful figure of Elizabeth was bowing meekly to thestroke, when a rustling of leaves from behindseemed rather to mock the organs, than to meether ears.‘ Hist! hist!’ said a low voice ; ‘ stooplower, girl; your bonnet hides the creature’s head.’SCRAP BOOK. 9It was rather the yielding- of nature than ai compliance with this unexpected order, thatcaused the head of our heroine to sink on her' bosom ; when she heard the report of the rifle,I the whizzing- of the bullet, and the enraged criesof the beast, who was rolling over on the earth,biting its own flesh, and tearing the twigs andbranches within its reach. At the next instantthe form of the Leather-stock rushed by her, andhe called aloud—‘ Come in, Hector, come in,you old fool ! ’tis a hard-lived animal, and mayjump ag’in.’Natty maintained his position in front of themaidens most fearlessly, notwithstanding theviolent bounds and threatening aspect of thewounded panther, which gave several indicationsof returning strength and ferocity, until his riflewas again loaded ; when he stepped up to theenraged animal, and placing the muzzle close toits head, every spark of life was extinguishedby the discharge.From the Pioneers, by Cowper.CANDLEMAS IN SCOTLAND.! Ax every school in the South of Scotland, tin;f boys and girls look forward with as great anxie-{ ty for Candlemas Day as the children of merry: England for their Christmas holidays. It is an! entire day of relaxation, play, and festivity. Onthe evening preceding Candlemas Day, the• schoolmaster gives_notice that to-morrow is theirTHE MOSTHEYannual festival. Ihe fonuaf announcement isieceived with joy, and they hasten home to theirfathers for their donations to the schoolmaster,called “ Candlemas, hleeae,” that all may beready on the montnv. On the morrow all isanxious bustle am) conjecture. Who is to beking ? Who is to be queen ? It is the only dayin the year in which they hurry to school witheager pleasure. 1 Jip ;ji;aster receives the “Can¬dlemas bleeze” from each pupil with condescend¬ing and familiar bmdness. Some bring sixpence,some a shilling, and others more, according tothe circumstances of their parents. With the“ bleeze” the master purchases a few bottles ofwhisky, which is converted into punch, and this,with a quantity of biscuits, is for the entertain¬ment of his youthful guests- Tlte surplus* ofcash, after defraying all expenses, he retains asa present to. himself. This, therefore, being inlieu of a “Christmas box,” may he termed a“ Candlemas box,” The boy that brings themost “ bleeze” is crowned king; and, on thesame ground, the girl with the largest portion of“ bleeze” is crowned queen, as distinctions of thehighest honour for the most liberal gifts. Tothose illustrious personages the other youths inthe school pay homage for the remainder ofthe festival.The king and queen are installed by eachbeing introduced to the other by the schoolmas¬ter \ and they acknowledge the honour with afond salute • both then receive a glass of punch,SCRAP BOOR.' 11and pledge their worthy master. They nextdrink “long life and happy days to their loyalsubjects,’ and are afterwards placed on an ele¬vated seat, previously prepared, and called thel throne. After the enthronement, the school¬master gives each scholar a glass of punch anda biscuit, and they all drink " long life, and aprosperous and happy reign to their most gracioussovereigns,” at the same time making obeisanceWith their best bows. As long as the whiskyholds out, these testimonials of loyalty and at¬tachment are repeated. The young ones getfull of mirth and glee, and, after receiving theirmaster’s thanks for their kindness, they are finallydismissed with merry hearts, to relate their ad¬ventures at home.*It is a custom with many old country peoplei in Scotland to prognosticate the weather of thecoming season according to this master prog-i Uostication :—If Can’lem&» is fair and clear,There’ll be twa winters in the year.Of the truth of this distich they have nodoubt. Should Candlemas day pass over with¬out a shower of rain, or a fall of snow, theirspirits droop : they conclude upon severe wea¬ther before spring is over, and they reckon uponheavy snow storms before the following Christ¬mas ;—if such is the case, ruin is inevitable !On the contrary, if Candlemas day is showeryand tempestuous, they anticipate a fine summer.• It may be necessary to inform the reader that this was thepractice of a former age, and is now entirely abolished.THE MONTHLYgenial suns in autumn, and plenty of refreshmentlor man and beast. I have seen a farmer of the“ Old School,” rubbing his hands with gleeduring the dismal battling of the elements with¬out, while the wind entered within through theere\ iees of the doors and casements of the latti¬ced window, while his little children at the loudblasts that roared round the roof, ran for pro¬tection between the knees of their father, or hidtheir face in the lap of their mother. Whenthe young ones were put to bed, the two oldfolks would sit on the side of the Ingta Neuk,talking “ o’ th’ days o’ langsyne,” when theywere bairns themselves, and confirming eachother’s belief in the old prognostication. Anyone acquainted with the habits of the Scotchshepherds and peasantry will authenticate thesefacts as to Candlemas day.The blessing of the candles by the pope wasseen by Lady Morgan at Rome in 1820. Theceremony takes place in the beautiful chapel ofthe Quirinal, where the pope himself officiates,and blesses, and distributes with his own hands,a candle to evety person in the body of thechurch ; each going individually and kneeling atthe’throne*to receive it. The ceremony com¬mences with the cardinals ; then follow thebishops, prelati, canons, priors, abbots, priests,&>., down to the sacristans and meanest officersof the church. Wl'jn the last of these hasgotten his candle, the poor conservatory the re¬presentatives of the Roman senate and people,SCRAP BOOK. 13receive theirs. This ceremony over, the can-I dies are li ghted, the pope is mounted in his chairand carried in procession, with hymns chaunting,round the antichapel j the throne is stripped otits splendid hangings; the pope and cardinalstake off their gold and crimson dresses, put ontheir ordinary robes, and the usual mass of themorning is sung. The blessing of the candlestakes place in all the parish churches.Year Book.THE MAN O’ TH’ LEATHER.( Concluded from our last.)“ Hollo! is any one there ?” quoth a voic«from within. “Yes!” said Darby, smother¬ing his anger and simulating in order to gain anentry, “ a friend !”“ A friend,” replied the voice, and a deep si¬lence of many minutes succeeded—Darby con¬stantly expecting that the door would, be unbar¬red for his admittance. At length his patiencewas exhausted, and he beat the pannel with ab¬solute malice. His knocking was this timemore violent and protracted than ever, and kedesisted not until the same voice as before hailedhim from within. “ Hollo ! is any one there ?”Darby, this time, scorned a lie, and loudlyvociferated “ Dash your daylights—don’t youhear there is? It’s me, the man o’ th’ leather.”“ Oho ! Man o’ the leather !” was the reply.14THE MONTHLY-Another long pause, followed by another fu¬rious assault upon the door, ensued. The for- -mer salutation again arrested hrs violence, towhich he shrieked out as before, “ It’s me, theman o’ the leather.”“Ho! Ho ! man o’ tlve leather!” respondedthe voice again, and the long mortifying silenceagain roused the wrath of the Carrick Currier.“ 111 swear to his croaking penny-trumpetVoice. He knows me,” said O’Donnell to him¬self, after the twentieth repetition of this vexatiousfarce. “ Well, I’ll be up with him. The curseo Cromwell on me, but I’ll terrify him up everyhalf-hour o’ the night, and eome on him the firstmoment he opens the door on the morrow.”Darby kept his resolution until it was oneo’clock, when, unable any longer to bear themortifying coolness with which he was answered,(and that so speedily too at last, that his foeseemed to be sitting up on the watch, for the merepurpose of tormenting him) that the fiery Car-rickman laid his hip and shoulder to the door,and with one tremendous effort forced it fromits hinges.A light step was then- heard across the hall.Darby listened for a moment, and looked ear¬nestly towards the spot from which the soundproceeded ; but all was darkness. “ He’s ma¬king away, but I’ll be after him,” quoth the cur¬rier to himself, grasping his oak, and proceededSCRAP BOOK# 15on tiptoe across the floor. He stole along, withall possible caution, for a few paces, but hearingthe light steps and a noise resembling the flut¬tering of garments on his right, he thought histormentor was endeavouring to pass him on thatside, and turning suddenly about, he sprang for¬ward, and tumbledof stone stairs.“ Oho ! man o’ the leather,” were the firstsounds he heard on recovering his senses. Hewas bloody, lamed, and almost disabled by thefall; but this eternal ejaculation set him on hislegs again in an instant.“ I’ll follow ye all night,” said he, as he hob¬bled up stairs. “ Curse ye—I’ll murther ye-”“ Ho ! ho! man o’ the leather,” again struckhis ear, followed by the sound of feet apparentlymoving hastily and with less caution than before,up the stairs above him.He pursued with all his speed, and in thecourse of an hour had involved himself in an in¬extricable labyrinth of passages, closets, bye-ways, and corridors. “ Now what in the nameof St. Dennis shall I do ? I'm bleeding like abullock—tired, sorry, and sore, and dive! a lig’ht,and no living mortal can I come upon. I’velost that fiend’s voice too now ; vexing as it was,it encouraged me, and kept away weariness, andthe spirit of the chace alive. The first sup o’the morning be poison to you—ye thief of allthieves, ye’ve enticed me here, and mazed andpuzzled me, so that I’m lost—curse ye j but I’llheadlong dowm a long flight16 THE MONTHLYbe up with ye. Oh ! St. Dennis ! to think o’the beauty o’ banging you—ne bocklish boy,ne bocklish—”“ Ho ! ho ! man o’ th’ leather.”This time the never-failing exclamation wassucceeded by a loud noise like the chuckle of a fdemon ; which so incensed Darby, that, mus¬tering all his strength, he hurled his trusty sprig |in that direction whence the obnoxious sounds iproceeded. “ There J had you at last,” saidhe, “ 1 think I had you then, my joy—then Iwas quits with you at any rate. I’ve a notionthat levelled you, boy—levelled you, Sir, do yousee”— said he, groping about on all fours :“ where are you, my tricksy tanner—whereare you ?”" Oho ! man o’ th’ leather,” quoth the voice,in its usual tone.This was too much. Poor Darby could en¬dure no more, and actually sunk on the broad ofhis back, at so unexpected an aggravation, andburst into tears. While he lay disconsolatelypondering on his mishaps, he suddenly bethoughthim of the directions which he had received fromthe ostler. The mystery was made clear to himin a moment. “ I’m in the haunted house,”said he to himself, trembling like the last leaf ofthe year, “ the cursed tanner’s new residencemust be next door. Murther, now ! Whatwill become of me ? Oil! that I’d salt or steelor holy book, to keep the creatures off! Not aSCRAP BOOK. 17bit—not a snatch of a prayer can I think ot.With a black hen’s dung beneath my feet, and ablack-hafted knife in my hand, 1 d defy manor devil.” ...“ Oho ! man o’ th’ leather !” again' assailedhis ear.The dark space before him became immediate¬ly painted with myriads of uncouth shapes, whichvaried with inconceivable rapidity, enlarging tothe most stupendous masses and decreasinggradually, yet in a single instant to the merestatoms. They came upon him in huge armies,threatening instant demolition, and suffering amutation at a hair’s breadth from his body, pros¬trated themselves in all humility at his feet, orpassed over him like the globules which dancein the sun’s rays. Huge creatures, like moun¬tains, skipped about with all the activity of fleas;and pigmies of half a barleycorn in length stalk¬ed by as solemnly as mourning kings. Bodyand mind could not support this long, and Dar¬by soon fell into a profound sleep.On awaking at day-break, he found himseltin an empty, dilapidated house, and his staff ly-ing by his side. With great difficulty he hob¬bled to the top of the main staircase, from which,he had the mortification to discover, he had laindistant but a few paces. On descending to thehall, he found the door almost battered to pieces,and moved across it with the sneaking andalarmed air of a dog that has l>een on a midnightprowl to the fold.ISTHE MONTHLY“ Here I am once more, thank St. Dennis,”said he, as he placed his foot on the outward steps.“ Ho ! Ho! man n’ th* leather,” again fellon his afflicted ear. He turned about instantly,and about a yard from him beheld a ragged,dirty, one-eyed, lop-winged, grey-pated rogue ofa magpie!The bird cocked up his only eye in the faceof Darby with such good-humoured effrontery,that, maimed and jaded as he was, he could notrefrain from bursting out into a loud ‘Ho! Ho! Ho!*“ Ho ! Ho! Ho !” quoth the magpie, turn¬ing about and hopping away on a leg and a wing.“ PH have you, my man, and keep you intoken of this night’s adventure, if I die for’t,”said Darby, recrossing the threshold. A longand well supported chace put Mag in turn to hisshifts. ’Twas in vain that he shrieked, “Oho !mein o* th* leather—leather—leather—man o’th’ leather!” The Carrickman was resolute,and after an hour’s hard running, Mag reluc¬tantly betook himself to a hole in the garretwall. Darby was close upon him, and thrusthis hand into the cavity before the bird’s tail haddisappeared. Judge of his surprise, when, in¬stead of the pie, he pulled forth a well-remem¬bered little bag of his own, containing the exactprice of the Cashelman’s leather. He now re¬collected that the bargain had been struck, andthe money paid in the presence of the bird.“ It’s as clear as the sun at noon,” said he,SCRAP BOOK. 19peeping1 into the hole, which he found wentright through the wall into a lumber-room,wherein a heap of damaged hides appearedmarked with the initials of Timmy Grogan, theCashel tanner. The bird, who was perched ona broken piece of furniture, at a distant part ofthe room, after gazing for a considerable time athis rifled treasurerhole, shook his head, and in amost rueful tone, exclaimed, for the last time, ashe hopped off, “ Oho ! man o’ th’ leather !”—— i Cigar.VARIETIES.Irish Low of Fighting.—Some peasantsbelonging to opposite factions had met underpeculiar circumstances; there were, however,two on one side and four on the other. In thiscase, there was likely to be no fight; but inorder to balance the number, one of the morenumerous party joined the weak side ; “ Bekase,boys, it would be a burnin’ shame, so it would,for four to kick two; and, except I join them,-by the Powers, there’s no chance of there beinga bit of sport, or a row at all at all!” Accord-ingly he did join them, and the result of it was,that he and his party were victorious—so hon¬estly did he fight.Effects of Sudden Fright.—An instanceoccurred on Friday last, in the family of CharlesBrendren, esq., Bayswater-road, of the lamenta¬ble consequences attendant on the very reprehen¬sible practice of “ frightening in fun” as it is20 the monthlytermed. One of Mr Brenden’s sous, about IS:years of age, dressed himself in a white sheetand a hideous featured mask, and laying in waitfor the house-maid, he suddenly jumped upon,her as she was passing along the“ scullery pas¬sage to the kitchen, and clasped her in his arms.She uttered a loud scream of terror, and fell down •in a state of insensibility. Her fellow-servantsi)endeavoured to re-animate her, but were unable,and it was found necessary to send for medicalassistance. By the aid of powerful stimulants ■;she was recovered, after remaining insensible for iupwards of three hours; but the shock and fright ishe sustained have entirely turned her brain! Shehas not uttered a word since, and when spoken to •by any person, takes not the slightest notice, but iwill continue sitting in one position, gazing va¬cantly for eight or nine hours at a time. It hasbeen necessary to use force to compel her to takesufficient nourishment. She is twenty years ofage, and was a merry good tempered girl; butby a mischievous frolic, she is likely to remain in ja state of idiotcy for life.—Sunderland Herald.Bridewell Keeper Nonplussed.—A youngand rather sheepish-looking fellow, who had beencondemned for some misdemeanor to pass a shorttime in our House ofCorrection, on being' usheredin was asked by the keeper if he could weave.He replied “No.” The keeper then went overall the different kinds of bridewell work, askingif he could do any of them.—But he still receivedthe same answer. Being rather nettled, he ex-SCRAP BOOK.21claimed “ What the d—1 is the use of you, sir—can you do anything at all?” “ Yes,” repliedthe young fellow, “ [ can ca’ (drive) a cart asweel as ony man in Paisley.”Cost of Armies.—M. Thiers, a Deputy, madean estimate lately in the French Chamber, of thesum paid for the services of each soldier in the! different armies of Europe. According to him',| the whole expence of feeding, clothing. &c. eachi man in the French army is £29 ; in the Eng-lish£98 ; in the Prussian £40 ; in the Austrian£26. This estimate, however, in what relatesto England, includes the Ordnance expenses, gar¬risons, half-pay, &c. and is of too loose a natureto be worth much. Perhaps he is a little moreCorrect in the following statement, viz. that eachgeneral officer costs, on an average, in Prance,£600 ; in Austria £602 : in England £1280 ;in Prussia ; £960 ; in Bavaria £800.Free Trade to the Lawyers.—A man from1 the country applied lately to a respectable solici¬tor in this town for legal advice* After de-; tailing the circumstances of the case, he was: asked if he had stated the facts exactly as they1 occurred. “ Ou ay, sir,” rejoined the applicant,1 “ I thought it best to tell you the plain truth ;1 you can put the lees till’t yourselh22 THE MONTHLYA Ki/ler.-Lhlle Maggy Smith of Balcasku;the daughter of the game-keeper there, is a fir?rate shot. It is not unusual to see Maggy, ca morning, trudging to school with her fowlingpiece over her shoulder, followed by a numbeof dogs, who are exceedingly fond of their littl*mistress, and who regularly participate with heat dinner time, the allowance of bread and cheesewith which her pockets are usually plentifallvsupplied. Maggy is a general favourite in thneighbourhood ; and indeed there may be some !thing of selfishness in this, for a rabbit or twooccasionally—her usual compliment—is general'ly speaking, no unwelcome douceur, and may acas a sort of bounty to the cultivation of Maggy’ {good graces. Some time ago, on an extraordiinary occasion, her father—the old game-keeper- 'had rather partaken largely in the festivities igoing forward at Balcaskie, so that he was foune inext morning, to be wholly unfit for the functions O'his office. The crisis was an important one t(his family ; for a peremptory demand had jus icome from Balcaskie House for a certain quan :tity of game. Maggy willinffhj officiated ir :the emergency, and sallied forth with gun, bagj \and belt, and soon procured the necessary supplyShe actually bagged, it is said, a couple of phea¬sants, a brace of wood-cocks, and a hare. Sc 'much for Maggy Smith’s deadly eye ! If it k:such a killer now, when she is only about 12 or14 years of age, what will it not do in two onthree years hence ?—We opine manslaughterright and left to a certainty. Fife Herald.8CBAP BOOK.23HINTS RESPECTING CHOLERA:With DIRECTIONS which may be most safety followedwhen Medical Aid canned be immediately obtained.—»«>«--As it is easier to prevent than to cure this dangerous disease, the fol¬lowing cautions should be observed Great moderation in diet, andin the nse of fermented and spirituous liquors. Raw vegetables andonripe fruit should be carefully avoided ; a diet of light animal foodis the best. The state of the skin should be particularly attended to,so that perspiration be not checked suddenly. The feet should bekept dry and warm. Flannel should be worn next the skin, or atleast a flannel bandage round the body. The utmost personal clean¬liness is to be maintained by frequent washing. Every room shouldbe ventilated by opening the doors and windows frequently in the day-time. Under die proper observance of cl.anliness and ventilation,this disease seldom spreads in families, and rarely p: sses to thoseabout the sick under such favourable circumstances, unless they hap¬pen to be peculiarly predisposed. Gentle exercise in the open air ishighly useful to preserve the general health of persons exposed to therisk of infection. Glauber’s and Epsom salts, as well as other coldpurgatives, are not to be taken without the express prescription of amedical man. No specific against Cholera is known ; and all thepatent drugs offered with this pretention are absolutely injurious.The only preventives are a healthy body and a cheerful mind.In most cases, a day or two days before a person is seriously affec¬ted by the disease, he has some disorder of stomach, giddiness, anda loose state of bowels, with frequent calk to go to stool. Whenthese symptoms appear, he must confine himseif to bed, and take apill of two grains of calomel and one grain of opium, 10 be repeatedin two or three hours, and followed in the course of four or fivehours by a table spoonful of castor oil. A small quantity of bran,dy aud hot water may be taken at intervals. It it of the utmmt im-fiHtancc to pay pat titular attention to these early indieationt of thedisease.When the most alarming part of the disorder has actually com¬menced, the patient complains first of giddiness and nervous agita¬tion, and is extremely feeble; his features become sharp and con¬tracted ; his lips, face, neck, hands, and feet, blue; the fingers andtoes are contracted ; the pulse is so small as to be almost extinct;me skin is deadly cold and shrivelled; the voice nearly gone;breathing quick ; the patient speaks in a whisper ; suffers crampsm iris limbs and body; his urine is totally suppressed ; he vomitsand-purges a liquid like rice-water or whey.THE MONTHLY24A person so seized should take immediately, as an emetic, twotea-spoonfuls of common mustard in half a tumbler of warmwater. He should be wrapped in hot blankets ; and friction allover his body with camphorated spirit or oil of turpentine and warmflannel should be used. Bottles of hot water or hot bricks shouldbe placed at the back and feet.* Poultices of common mustard andlinseed meal in equal parts, mixed with warm water, should be ap¬plied to his stomach. He should drink hot brandy and water, orhot water with a tea-spoonful of sal volatile, or with ten drops of oilof peppermint and some sugar in it. In case of his complaining ofpain, from twenty to forty drops of laudanum may be given; should,however, the pain be accompanied with spasms, the dose may befrom thirty to fifty drops. Medical assistance should he ob'ained assoon as possible. It is important to add, that when the patient’sshirt or the sheets of his bed are changed, which should be done asfrequently as possible, the dirty linen is to be plunged immediatelyinto cold water,*„* The above short Hints were submitted to the inspection, andhave received the approval, of several of the most eminent MedicalMen in Edinburgh. Circulated gratis by Oliver and Boyd.•Flat bags, about 18 inches by 12. filled with hot sand, salt, or meal,will be found very useful for this purpose.FOR FEBRUARY.Sow more pease and beans for a succession ; also ra¬dishes, lettuces, cresses, parsley, &c. Spinage may besown every three or four weeks to have a constant sup- tply ; also a few cabbages and savoy seeds about the endof the month. A few onion seeds may be sown in themiddle of the month, which often do better than thosesown later. Prepare ground for potatoes, onions, andother roots. Gather fresh horse dung to prepare formaking up hot beds for cucumbers and melons. Watermay be given in small quantities to such plants as wrantit, picking off all decayed leaves. Plant ranunculusesand anemonies. Sow tender annual flowers on a mo¬derate hotbed.February, IsL ho. m.Day breaks, 5 30Sun Rises, 7 27 Sets, ,,..4 33Twilight ends, 6 30February, 28//i. ho. m.Day breaks, 4 45Sun Rises, 6 37 Sets 5 £3Twilight ends,...7 15