rutLIFE^ ANDPropheciesOFmu ^Wiitwter oi tyt 0osipil9ATNEW GLENLUCE IN GALLOWAY.TO WHICH IS ADW1D, ’HIS REMARKABLE LETTER TO rHE PRISONER STIN DUNNOTAP. CASTLE.NEWTON-STE WA UT:Published and sold Wholesale and Retail, byJ. M'Kaisv.<gSUONALJjfe.OF SCOTLAND ^ ’THELife and PropheciesOFA lexaiider Pedeu.!. Mr Alexander Fid ex was bom inthe parish pi’Sprn, in . tlie, shpriffdom <-(’Ayrt After tlmt he past his course at t heCollege, he was employed for some time tohe schooflitiaster, precenter and sessionclerk to Mr John Guthrie, minister of thegospel at Tarbolt'on. When he was aboutto entei; to the niiiiistry, a yomig y/cnianfell' with eldld in adultry, to a'sefvairt inthe house where he stayed; when shefound herself tO he so, she told the fatherwho said. I’ll rup for; U and so to Ireland,father it upon Mr Peden, he 1ms more tohelp you to bring it up (he having a smallheritage) titan 1 have. The same d^y thatlie was to getiii's lieenee,'sfte came in be¬fore the Presbytery and said, I hear youate la licence Mr Peden to be a minister fhut do it not, for I am with child to hintHe being-without *aMhe '1inte, was callecin by the moderator; and beingquestioneeahout it, he said, h am surprised; T eanno ispeak; but !e£ {nme^entertain an ill thoughof me, for I aih utterly free of it, arid Go*will vindicate me m lii« own time.amiHe w ent iionie, and walked at ;t water sjkeupwards (>£.24 horn s, and w'oukl neithereat or drink, hut,said, 1 have got v/hat 1Wats seeking aadl will bo vindicated, and |that |>oo.'unhappy la.ss v. ili ]my deiw fur itin her. life, ami.will mak<va disuial end, ymlfor this surfeit of grief titat she hath givenme, there shah never one of her sc& .coine| into my hospm ; And aeviu eingly he neyer•I inarried. Th< re are variou-; reports <;f theI .. way that he was vindieited / Some say, jilte time she was in ehihhljirth, |JVfr< hitiir.ie charged hor to ^dve account whowits fhe Either ofthul e-hiid, and diseharge 1tie- UMimen to he helpful to her, until she didit. Some say that she confessed, oil\ersthat she regained obstinate. Some of,thepeople wlien I made eu<]uiry about it inthat-country-side, aflirmdd that after sthePresIjytery Jrui been at all i'-uins ahdut it,and could .get,.no.safisfa(:.tiou, they a];point-ed Mr Guihriem give a foil ,reiafk>n. ofthe whole before the congregation, wjiichhe did •, ..and tlie.ssxne; ch-y the hoher. of jthat.’ehdd hying' present, when he hqardMr Guthrie begin to read, he stood up, |and,desired him to.halt, and said “ I am jthe father of that child, and I dh.drcd her .to father it on Mr »Ped<'ig which lias been•a great trouLio of couscicnee to me, apd I•1—could get no rest till I came home to /Clare it.” However it is certain, that aftershe was married, every thing went crossto them; and they went from place to pla-ce,and Were reduced to great poverty. Atlast he came to that same spot of groundwhete he stayed upwards of 24* hours andmade away with himself.2. After this he was three years settledminister at New Glenluce in Galloway ;and when he was obliged, by the violenceand tyranny of that time to leave the parish,he lectured upon Acts XX. 17 to tho end,and preached upon the 31st verse in theforenoon, “ Therefore watch and remem¬ber that for the space of three years, Iceased hot to warn every one, night andday with tears” Asserting that he had de¬clared the whole council of God, and hadIv'ept nothing back ; and persisted that hewas free of the blood of all souls. And inthe afternoon he preached on the 32 verse,And now brethren, I commend you toGod, and to the word of his grace which isaide to build you up, and to give you aninheritance among all them that are sanc¬tified” W hich was a weeping day in thatkirk j the greatest part could not containthemselves, but they sorrowed most of allwhen he told them that they should neversee his face in that pulpit again—He eon-5tinned until night, and iVhen he closed thepulpit door, he knocked hard upon it threetimes with his Bible, saying three timesover, I arrest in my Master’s name, thatnever one enter there, but such as come inI had the account from old persons inthat parish, who were witness to it, worthyof aU credit. ,3, After this he joined with that honestand zealous handful in the year 1666, thatwas broken at Pentland hills, and camethe length of Clyde with them, where hehad a melancholy view of their end, andparted with them there, James Cubisonof Paluchbeaties, my informer to whom hetold this, he said to him, M Sir, you didwell that parted with them, seeing you waspersuaded they would fall and flee beforethe enemy—Glory, glory to God, that hesent me not to hell immediately 1 for Ishould have stayed with them though Ishould have been cut all in pieces.” ^4. That night the Lord’s pemde fell*and fled before the enemy at .Peutla^ul- hills, he was in a friend’s house in Carriek,*•' sixty miles from Edinburgh, his landlordseeing him mighty troubled, enquired ht*Wby the door, as I did. Accordingly, neither curate nor indulged minister ever entered that pulpit, until after the revolutionthat a Presbyterian minister opened it.V• it .witlvliinri^ hr said, -'‘Tf-ijiorsp^v I*v HI?peak with you” ami desiml some caudle."That night he v. eat to bed, the r ext inrtrn-irg ' riilliug early to* li’.s laitdlonl, said, “Thave sad news to. tell you, our frieiuls thatAvere together in arms, appearing forChi ist’s interest, are now broken, killed,taken or fled every man.”——He said,“ Why do you speak so ; There is a. greatpart of ohr friends prisoners in .Edin¬burgh,” about forty-eight hours thereafterthey were fully confirmed in the. truthof it.5. After this, in June he wastaken by Major'Ooekhnrn, in the bouse ofHugh Eei'gussou, df Krtoekdow, in Carriek,' A' ho eonstrained 1dm to stay all night. MrPeden-told.him, that it :would he a dearnight’s quarters 'tothem both.' Accordingly1 hey Were both carried prisoners to Edin-h'urgh. •Hugh Fc.fgusson was fined in a’llnni-saiid nmrks, for resetting, hajh'ouriiig andeorwersing with him. The eptme'il order-ed-fifty, .pounds sterling'to bq paid to tlie :Major ojit of the fines, ordained him todivide tv.Trdy five pounds sterting among,tlie juirfy‘that apprehended him. Som e•time after .examination, he was sent prisonerto.the Bass, where • and at Edin¬burg, he r emained Until December 1(16*8,that he was banished.<x AViiiJc prisoner ct the I3a>-s, one SabHat!i-iiioniing, being, about the public worw'ship of God, a young lass about Id. yeargf-of age, eame to.the c-hauiber door mpckingp;'aith a huid laughtey: He «aio, “Poorthino:, thou mocks and laughs at- the wor- ,ship of God.hut ore long God shall vmtesuch a sudden surjudsing Judgaient oii thee, -•that shall shiv thy laughing, and thou shaltnot escape it.” Very.shortly aftei, she yrast-walkiijg upon the rock, an<l there mineblast of wiiid and siveeped her into thqisea,where she perished.While prisoner there one day walkingupon the rock, some .soldieis. .parsing byhim, one of them said, “ Devil take him.” fDe said, Fy, fv, }K)or man, tlum k:,i,owesf,not wlmt thou art saying ; but thou wiltrepent thiit.” At whi<,h word the suj.bierstood astonished, and went to the guarddistrarted,-erying aloud for Mr i Vden,-buy¬ing, the devil, woidd immedi;,tt('ly/iake .himaway. He came to him again, and fipindhim in his high mind under deep, eonrict-ions of great guilt, The guard being elying-ed, tlnw.desired him to go to his .pgpy;lie refused, and said, he would lidMo ; n.iagainst Jesus Christ, Ids cause, and .per¬secute his people ; ho had bone tlu'4 ten jlong,'. 'Uie, governor threatered h‘un svuh-death to-niorrow about ten of the elteku -Ilit4 couflilcintly said three times, A©ugh heyhoohi teulrall his body in pieces, he should"Hfcvei lire ikyhis that way. About thr^ednya after, the governor put him out of^fiie ^art’ison setting him ashore. He hay¬ing a wife and children, took a house in^East Lothian, where he became a singularChristian,Mr Peden told these astonisliingpassages to the foresaid John Cubison andothers who informed me.7. When brought from the Bass to Edip-iitifgH, arfd’sentence of banishment passedUpon him in Dee. 1(>7K, and sixty more fel¬low-prisoners, for the same cause, to go toAmeiiCa, never to be seen in Scotland7 a-gain, under the pain of death : after thissentence was past, he several timessaid, that the ship was not yet built thatshould take him and these prisoners toVirginia, or any other of the English plan¬tations ift America—On.e James Kay, asolid and grave Christian, being one ofthem who lives in or about the water ofLeith, told him, that Mr Pedeu said to him,^Janies, when your wife comes in let mesee her; ” which he did. After some dis¬course, he called for a drink, and when hesought a blessing, he said, “ Good Lord,let hot James Kay’s wife miss her husband,till thou return him to her in peace and safe-which we are sure will be sooner than he01HIi!n-|11 himillnelor sbe is looking for.,, Accordingly, thesame day-month that he parted with herat Leith, he came home to her at the W&-ter erf Leith.8. In the year 1682, he was in Kyle,and preached upon the text, ‘‘The plowereplowed upon my back, and drew long theirfurrows.” Where he said, “Would yeknow who first yoked their plow ? . It wascursed Cain, when he drew nis furrows solong and deep, that he let out the heart-blood of his brother Abel: and his cursedseed has, and will gang summer and win¬ter, frost and fresh weather till the world’send ; and at the sound of the last trumpetwhen all are in a fiame, their sheets willbum and their swingle-trees will fall to theground; the plowmen will lose their gripsof the plow, andthe gadmen will throw awaytheir gads; and then O yelling and shriek¬ing that will be among all this-cursed seed,clapping their hands, and crying to th^hill and mountains to cover them from th^face of Lamb, and of him that sits upon thethrone, for their hatred of him, andat bis people.” ^After sermon, when marrying a pair offolks, when the man had the woman by thehand, he said. “ Indeed man you Have abonny bride by the hand, I see a eovetoufdevil in her; she is both a thief and awhore let her go, you will be ashamed erfIQliert^ The n>an keejjing F?ibt Iier IianrI hosaiQf \ mi' will not tako tov aelvico, hot itWilH&fMb ”• AI'ot mairin-f^whon^jmiyjng, lie sait|, “ Ciood Lord, manya plough'li^re hohn yoakod oii the ln\ek ofthe church in HSoofiand ; Pagans yhakotltheirs,,iAiitieiiri^ yoaki'd his, and PrelacyJierS, ami nou' Ihe 'plagued Erasliair in¬dulged they'have y,mkod theirs, and it illLecdnies tlienigood Lord etit their sheets• that; the su'irigfe trees' may fall to theground.” 'EnsignY dtdin Kii-klaml vaP' ui it-ncss to this sermon and marriage : he Avas. my dear aet]uaintanee, who told lire smaT-ai time's of tin^; and more of that sermom9? Ahout the dime time; lie was marry¬ing two pair of folks, he said to the one,“ Stand bf, 1 Will not marry you this day.”TheY'Iu-idegrbon) wils amdous to know the" reason, after enquiring privately, he said.You win thank me for this afterwards, andthink yimrself well quat Of her for she is'with child ftV another wife’s.- husband :ia\ aid) u as.fire matteroflUet; as linYc Ytfter-v'.uds d'isj PveVi'd. ‘ j:' 10. Shortly after that sad stroke at-Roth-Avelf, he v ent to Iridiihd-huf dal not staylon'^at that time ; in his traveis throVtghImllou ay, he eahie to a hoiwe, and' look¬ing in fhe’gVnuleman's face, he sqid, “d'Ji.oyPail von at! honest nian, but if von he; so,you mok ri# like'it, you will not long keep-11 ■that' n'Uiiic, ‘but will disern^i* yourselftp W( \vbal voM are.” And1 sliprtly- aiteiy wasi miuic fo flee for sheep-stealing. In tiiaf' sliort time he was ili Irelaiid, the* Gover-j iuh’ enquired of all Freshyterian'niinistersthat vveh; in frelatid that they should .giveI it inuler their haihl, that they had no. ae-f.cession" to thd late: rehellion at Botlnreil-» bridge, in .^eolhind ffnd that they <lid ;;|fot'apprdvh pfih *. whldi the rtiost pail dkheandkehtYk? I'ho'm'as GoW^iiK a scot eh nf an,and one Mr Paton'from the niorth of li'e-laftfl to to present it to the. Lordmint, the which, when Mr. Pedenhedyd, he Bant; “ Mr Gdwarfs a^d his hi o-t>Per Air Pufoiv are sent,-and goiic the de¬vil’s errand, hut Gd'd will arrest them' hythe gate.” AesOrJingty Mr Cowans hythe way waits truck vrifh a sore sickness,; aiid. Mr Patdn fell from his horse, andbroke or eni. hed his leg, and both of themwere detained heyond expectation. I hadtins account irom. spine tlorthy Christianswhen I was in Irciand.11. In the year Kiotl, he married JohnBrown-iii Kyle,'at his 6\i n house in Priest-hall, tl at singiilaf Christian, upon, MarionAVVirg aihu; uiarriage he said to the bride,| -‘•'.Marion, you havy got a good man to bevdiif husbaiioi, hut you willHot eniov. hintlohgy prize bis company, and kpep linen’by yot^fof'his" wiudhig'&iOef; for you wifineedjjjt, when xowr arc k>^kmg forand yill a blacMij pilie. 112* ^ftpr ibis, in the year 1682, he went ;i *to Ireland again, & came to the liousc of Wil* ;iliam iSteel in Glenwarr}7, in the county ofAntrim, he enquired af Mrs Steel, if she ‘wuntpd a servant for threshing victual,; riShe said, they did and enquired what his i;wages were a-day, or a week, He said, >«The common rate Was a ,common rule ; to ,*which he assented. At night he was put ;fto the bam to bed with the servant lad, iand that night he spent in prayer and 1groaning, up and down the barn. To-inor. 5row he threshed victual with the lad, andthe next night he spent- the same war,the sepond day in the morning, the lad . isaid to his mistress, this man sleeps none* . /!but gyoans and prays all nigbt 11 get no . jsleep lor bim. lie threshes very well, andis not sparing of himself though 1 thipk behas not been, used with it, for he can donothing to the boUeling and ordering of >the barn, and when I put the ham in order,he goes to. such a place, and there he praysfor the ai^icied church of Scotland, and knames so in any people in the lurnace. Hewrought the second day, and his mistress ,vwatched arid overheard him praying as cathe lad bad said'; at night she desired herhusband to enquire if he was a minister, «• ■which he did, arid desired him W be free ^ritfv hiifr, and he shouW net only be r>pmemy to him but ft friend, Mr Pedrti.,aidj he Was not ashamed of his office; and' ^ave an account of his ciTCumstanees ; heras no more set to work r or to lie withhe lad, and he staid a considerable timen that place, and was a blessed instrumentn the conversation of some, and civilizingf others, though that place M as noted fori wild rude people, and the fruit of hieibour appears unto this day. There wagI servant-lass in that house, that be couldhot look upon but with frowns; and sorne-iitmes when at family Worship be ££id,ointing to her with a frowiiitig cotiiitc-ance, M You come from the bafli, andirom tlie byre, reeking in your lusts,ud sits down among us, We do not want,ou or none Such.” At last he said toWilliam Steel and his wife, “ Put thatinhappy lass from your bodse, for sheSkill be a stain to your family, for she isllith Child, and will murder it, and will3 punished for the same; ” which ac-wdingiy came to pass, and she was bun-II at Craig Fergus, which is the Usuali.mishittent of murderers of children there,rhad this account from John Muuheadl>ho staid much in that house, and otherjbristian people wlreti I Was in Ireland.I’ 13. In the beginning of May, 1685, besme to the house of John Brown, sindtMarioiiiAVeir, wliomTie maLTioT lieforr Tiey> eut to'lre'.am!, wiicre he stayed all, ;ami in the morning when lie ttHiJcTarvvvMl, ’la* eame out of tUe .floor flying tojluni^T^ ;.“Poor woman, a feaVi'ul nioming j ’* tu'ice 'oyer: u a dark misty morning.” The next ;hioniing hetween tiv'e and six the said JohnThrown, having gone about tile worshi}* ofGot! in his family, was.going witlr a sjiatlehi his hand to make reatly some peat- 'jgrouud: the mist being very dark, he, kiienf *;not until cruel PTaverhouse compassed himinth three troops of horse, and bi-ougJithun to his htuise antHliere lined hinri;veho though he At as a man of stauijuieriiig }Sjieeeh, yet annveretl him soUJiy and diS-^tiiietly; which tnadd7 CTaferhouse^oask 1tiiesewliom he had taken to he his guide,'through the nmirs? if-over tliey heard Iiiuiiipreach ? Thej''answered,- “ISo, no ke wa^never a preacher.” He said, if he has my'ver preathetl uieikle, he has jiray.ed in 1'Ms time.” He.said to John, “ (»p to yourt f-ayers, for vou shall imniediatelv die.”.•i ,» » .,1 . * . r,, , i«.<ii... * (iiwhen tie waspruysug, L laveriipust'interrufft-ed him three times; Ope,tjnie that l.ig.sto])t,‘Min lie was pleeaLin^ tiiat tin; Lord would’spare a renniun't, & hot make.a full end in-the !day of his afiger, Cluverliouse saiuf “ 1 guejiyou time to pray and yejneaeti.” He tm ued about"add said, 'Sir you'knovi(Use Siud, “ i givojiye are begun iol upon Ms knees, 1i neither the im-I:15'1' of pnmii'g nor proiu liinir, that callsi ' .pr<tachuig; Then' 'ctTritiniu'd 'without. fusion. W'iioo ended Claverlioujie saHl,“ ZvC good night of your wife and ohihlrtui.’ . v rvwife standing by with her childher arms, that she had broughth to him, and ahother eliild of his tirlt' y s1% hr-earn e to , her aiid "said, “ ■ Kon^ ^o: '•ion, the dag is eome that I' tofd yod $dd come, when I sooke tlrsf to you’ldf'Tying me.” She said,;‘> Indeed Johri f 'willingly part with you. ”' ydljeif ho\t, “ that is.ail: I dcsiie, i la.tve no niO'feo but die. ” lie..kissed h,i:s wife andIjtis, and wished purchased' and' promis-.; ilissing to fc miliiped upon the.ui,ft h% blessing, 'Chiverbouse ordered six.*iier& to shOoty aiid the indst [mi*t of tliepets'tjaiiic ifpon his head, vvhidi seatUnvrhis brains upon the ground. Claver-fjpe said to his wife; “ what thinkestvi of thy,husband' iititt, wounur? ” .’She•!? “ I tliought ever nmch of him, and{as nmeh as ever.” He sard it werbtie to lay thee beside'him.” ySiie'feaiVl,ye were permitted, i 'doubt tiof but1 eruclty would go that.length.” Butr will, ye answer for this moniing’s,|v*? He said,.“ to man 1 ean bi^gp]-rabh' and forTiod, 1 will take him inbwn band !” Chiverboi!S(“ Vndmrted hise arid uT relied, and left her with theM?;. - ' V" " ■ ' ' *mt4ead corpse of her husband lying there.She set the bairn on the ground, and ga¬thered his brains, and tied up his head,and straighted his body and covered hijrhwith her plaid, and sat down and wept ov¬er him. It being a very desart place, wherenever victual grew, "and far from neigh¬bours, it was some time before any friendscame to her; The first that came was avery fit hand, that old singular woman inthe Cumbt rhead, named Elizabeth Mehziethree miles distant, who had been triedwith the violent death of her husband atPentland, and afterwards of two worthysons, Thomas Weir, who was killed atDrumclog, and David Steel, tyho was sud¬denly shot afterwards when taken. Thesaid Mairon Weir sitting upon her hus¬band’s grave, told me, that before that *time, she could see no blood but she wasifi danger to faint, and yet she was hfdpedto be a witness to all this, without eitherfainting or cunfusion, except when tbeshots were let off, her eyes dazzled. Hisrcorpse was buried at the end of his housewith this inscription on his grave-stone*Jn earth's cold bed, the dusty jxirt here lies.Of one who did the earth as dust despise,Here, in this place, from earth ho took de%parture ;Now he has got the garland of a Marty r,17i|? ^Thia murder was ’Committed feesix arid seven in the mormt^ : Mr JPedeaiwas about ten miles distant, having beenuin the fields all night, he name to the. bouseabout eight, and desired to call in the fa¬mily, that he might pray amongst them.When praying, he said, “ Lord when wiltthou avenge Brown’s blood? Oh I leiBrown’s blood be precious in thy sight i! land hasten the day when thou wilt avange;it with Cameron’s, Cargill’s, and many QtIthers of our Martyrs names ; When endedfahn Muirhead enquired what he meantby Brown’s blood. He said twice over, a.what do I mean? Ciaverhouse has Iwenllat the Press-hill this morning, and hasi isruelly murdered John Brown, fiis corpselislying at the end of his house, and his' Door wife sitting weeping by them/andwot a soul to speak comfortably to her.(This morning after sun-rising I saw a’ptrange apparition in the firmament, themppearance.pf a bright, clear-shining star,(fall from heaven to the earth j and indeedi(there is a clear-shinning light fallen thisi day, the greatest Christian that ever I con¬versed with.yH A little before his death, he was in Au-bhincloich, where he was horn, in thehouse of John Richman, there being twobeds in the room, one For him, undone for!Andrew—— , who dwelt in and about.•tw \v]^n A^Jivr:T? ^ vito bis ImvI, be hearu b:iO.yery iinr-oiyumiJAvjtli the Lovd, to jiave pity npoo t.lie. weoj.’ ScoSIiuhI, ami spare a recreant, atul rnmoke a full on-,1 in the day of liie anyerAmi wlien by was oft*his kpyes, ho? ^valOn uj) anil tlown tip? chamber,- c.rv.ir?^ o>i•“ h)U! the '.'*Iofji'/avs, the Freix-h Mon/ij*See I)ow t!i‘y . run k Hp-r Ion.*? will tj-van ? Lord eat their houghy and star the .running^’. Thus he continaerl all nigli-sornotimes on his -Iniees, mul souietiHi*walking,—In the morning tlr.y f.<jwire:l what he .meant jhy tlie IUV;zies? - He said, O Sii-sk.ye yvill havedreadful day hy the -French bfonzies, aa set of wieked rnen in tliese. lauds, wwill lake .part with' them -I the, westSeotlapfl v.'.'U pay dear for it !. They v.run thu-kei; in the '.rater of Ayr ami Clythan ev.er the. J-iighlamhnen did.” 1 lay }that chamber about three years ago, ajthe SHine John Kichnmn pud his wife hme. I hat these, ■were his worils. At otltimes to the same purpose, saying, “ iltin* iVFonodes, the. Mouzies, will be throrthe Tread th and the length of .thesouththe west of Scotland k Oil;k 1 think 1 ?them at oiir tife sides, s'tayii-»g man we-uand Aihl. Tlte rc?nui;>nt will get a href -.ing, hut tliey will !>e ibdven to the wil* iness agyjp, and tiieir sharpest -hours19 .M' !r>4.. ,Ik AVI uni ill:* (!f\AT of Ms ili'Yitli drVv/. t - » • ^ *jU'ar, and tiot being aole to travel, herame to itis brother’s1 house in ti)'e pari's!i:»f Sofn, >vhf rf“die vTas born, lie <*ausedilig a Crfre vrrfh a sducben bus'Ji covering ^jhe mouth of It, and the enemies Came■tnd seardied tlie house narrowly manyimes. Im the-time that he was in the ,•aye, ho said to some frieluls,^!. That, iod shall rnake Scotland a dysidai-ion.it There shaU J>e hremiiant ih the land,jvliojn 'God shall spare.and hide. 3. '17’cy.hull li<; in*]roles ami eaves of the eaKh, .ind lie./.supplied with meat ami drink:Mid wnjjji they come-out of tlieir holes,ihey shall not be able to walk, for tmn-fli'ng on tli'e dead corpse. 4-. A stone|nt out of the mountain, shall eoine deevn|nd (1 nd sbali be avangml on the greatnes of the earth, are! the inhabitants ofie Inml for their wit kednrss ; and thenre chureh should come iprtU with a hon-y. bairn tirne of young * lies at her hack,[e wished that tlie Lord’s people mighte hid in tlieir caves, as if they wereot in tlie wosdd for nothing would do, untd (rod appeared wiili his judge-1 units,'dind \h)‘y that, wan .through jfiieitter rftiul shm-p short storfn, fiy theword ’of the Frenches, and a set of un-happy flneji taking part with them, tlithere would be spring-tide day of tgospel: given them for a sign, If he wehut once buried, they might be in doubbut if he were oftener buried thanoutthey might be persuaded that all he se■ B|would coine to pass : Ahd earnestly flsired them to take his corpse to Ainmoss, and bury them beside Riehy, (me? Sing Mr Cameron) that he might get re«in his grave, fur he had gotten little throu \his life; but he said he knew they wotnot do it. Jfe told them, that bury hwhere they would, he would be liftedgain, the man that put first to 1hand to lift his corpse, four things shotbefal him: ,1. He should get a great!from a herse; o. He should fall indultery; Into theft; and for thisshould leave the land. 4. Make a melaeholy end abroad for murder. Which ?!cordingly did come to pass. Thereone Ahurdoeh, a mason to his trade, 1)then in the military service, who firet |h^nds to his corpse.A little before l|is death, he said, **shall be angry where I shall be buriedlast, but I discharge you all to liftcorpse again/ At Just one morhlttg eai ihe eame to the door, and left his cai|bis brother’s wife said, where are you■ *mig? the enemy will be here 'he aatd, Inow that# Alas! Sir said she, whatIfill become of yoti ? You most go hack> the cave again. He said, I have donei ith that, for it is discovered: hut thereno matter, for within forty-eight hours11 will be beyond the reach of all Hie de¬ls temptations, and his instruments ini fell or on the earth ; and they shall trou-Jie me no more.” About three hours af-r he entered the house, the enemy came,id found him not in the cave; then they: »arehed the barn narrowly, casting theI ttthreshen corn, and searched the houseiiahbing the beds, but entered Dot intoe place where he lay.1 Witliin forty-eight hours he died, Jan.jUth 1686, being past sixty years: andi as buried in the laird of Affleck’s aisle,‘he enemy got notice of his death and•trial, and sent a troop of dragoons, andifeted his corpse,, and carried him to Cum-lack gallows-foot, and buried him there,lifter being forty days in the grave, j be-le others. His friends thereafter laid aave-stpne above him, with this inseript-HERE LIES 'tmMr ALEXANDER PEDEN,Q24(lUi.tliru! i^Iinirster/of iboal Glenhu'P,f WHO Dr.l’AtJTKt) THIS LlFfij,Jajniary, g8fc}i KiiG, XAnd vvaS rust'd afirr i.v W(‘<*]<s out <IHS GRAVE,AND , TURIF.ll, ill'.UF, OUT OFCONTEMPT.( OPY (/'a I.ctter from Mr ALEXANDER I’E.tcHtlV .nisoiic+s’ln Dxinnottu' CVtle.Julygi-C. .pI AU FitfxosI lone: to boar f\ o-i \ ( , u » .;T.vjarVmi; lunv vou snnrul your time'; and;the ^viice ' of God grou’s in yoitr lieart-I know ye, and etliers of the Lord’sAde. !)T rdasoinof the present trial, ■get Vi> a ; fbs]‘tto;n oG odm] leaning VGki'ird ; but I defy you to speak a:word of bin), unless you wrong him. Sns yaw can, and sjfare nut, only I rci.that y<mr expressions Of Christ be stiffto your experience of Irm. If ye iCiirist’s. liouse he be.re and jli-provand bnrder than you looked-for, asyourselves Christ means only to diet23jftfid not to .star:#t' youj,.. Ojw.stowarrl konsr'wHeii to Bjtrinl ami v/lion to Hjcnv-. (-IjTt^tkfnl"' Svell. W'h'fttli'or 'lionpinir oi' strakini?- ‘.i-gfee^ Ix'^t Avirh our narrow vessels, tV>rhoth aro alike to him : S]riiing u iU'-not’ MiSi him, no? ^?ll ^pihWiiig impoifi'i'ishHe thinks it'ill vroh fliat i.s hoi(hui oiT:h1s:j>^hpio- (rrime arid Glor^eoines out ofr Chi'ist’s lucky hatiOt Our voxels are hnt| terkiess, and contain little: His fullnessi'rnUst straitened irhen it wants a refit.It is easy tor Chnst to he holden busy inf dividing the fulness of his father’s house, Id his poor'irii'nils"; He deljgbts not tokeep int-rev over night. Every day bringsIpiviu ndhe; s to the people of t.h-d : He isthe 'eahest merehant ever'the pedple of' God yoked with : If ye be pleased with the•wares, what of his gnices: makes best forvoa, he and you will soon sort on tl# pricehe will sell goods Hieap, that ye may s]d( r| for his shop'again ; and he draws all thej if?ale to Titrhs.df I-ebuhsel you to go no far-| thi’A' tl/jm Christ. Arid ndw when it isp com tfy: ur door; cither to sin-or fcutfer,1 eoiifishi you'to lawyotir aceountsfor snf-1 fai itfg 'g for- an-out ’gafe eotnihgtVo'm" an-other airth rflay be' prt;jtuiieal to your' soul’s interest. And for your encourage¬ment, remember m sends none a warfare '/on their own eh ages. 1 And blest is thef . • * .mman that gives Christ all his money. Itwill be best with you to block with him jwhen you want hand money. And the less !you have, he has the more heart to trust Ito you. And so it is best to keep in with Iyour old acquaintance Christ. New aoquanitance with a strange lord, is the ready !way to make a wonnd in grace’s side, whichwill not heal in haste. ; the sore may closebefore the wound dry up, for grace is atender place, and is very easily distemper¬ed with the backslidings of our present;time. And if the wheels of it be once bro¬ken with sin, all the money in the world!will not make it go about, until it be putiu Christ’s hand, 1 hope I have said no:more on this matter than is needful; for Ihave seen the marks of tenderness deeplydrawn on your carriage, the safest way toshift the shower, is to hold out of God’sgate, and keep within his doors, until theviolence of the storm begin to ebb, whichis not yet full tide. Christ deals tenderlywith his young plants, and waters themoft, least they go back. Be painful, andlose not life for the seeking, Grace, mer¬cy and peace, be with you.FINIS.i