CHEAP TRACTS No. 1.1.- r,-'vr.- —... -r,- , »i77.r —iA COLLECTIONOFNOTABLE THINGSWORTH KNOWING,COMPBISING AN ACCOUNT OF REMARKABLE•- ■ -/.'I ’ r,‘ • , ,OBJECTS, STRIKING INCIDENTS AND OC-CURRENCES, PECULIAR CUSTOMS, 8iC.DUNFERMLINE:P BIN TED AND SOLD BY JOHN Alii LER.IVolaMe Tilings.THE PYRAMIDS OF KGTPTThe various travellers who have visited thesewouklerful remains of antiquity assert, that inmagnitude they far surpass any thing the imagi¬nation can conceive ; nor is the surprise of thebeholder, on viewing the stupendous whole, anyway diminished by the appearance of the com¬ponent parts, which are on a correspondingscale, and occasion wonder that human effortscould have elevated the ponderous masses ofsolid stone of which they are composed to sogreat a height, and disposed them in a regularorder, unassisted, as may naturally be supposed,at that early period, by powerful machinery.The French fc-aveller, Denon, and others haveobserved, that the sublima effect produced by theappearance of such immense objects is in somedegree rendered less from not being placed nearto others where their bulk might be estimatedby comparison. : This may doubtless be the case,for the eye jiulge^-by comparison, as is evidentin almost every instance.; and if it were possiblet« place St. Paul’s or jbe monument by the side*^ $ aiavurc'k:»f the Pyramids, an opportunity would then beobtained of forming- a correct idea of the as¬tonishing size of those justly celebrated wondersof the world.Those who have not been exposed to thedangers and inconveniences of a long journey,through sandy deserts infested with hordes offerocious plundering Arabs, may, however, heable to form an idea (here at home) of themagnitude of these ancient structures, from thefollowing measurement.—Height, estimated about 650 feet; width ofone of the sides, about 650; layers of stoaewhich form it, about 200.THE COLOSSUS AT RHODES.The soil of Rhodes is so fertile and rich, thatit produces every delicacy which man can wishto «njoy; and the air is the most pure andsereno that he could desire to breathe. Such isthe beauty of the country, and salubrity of theclimate, as to give occasion to the poets to feignthat Apollo rained golden showers upon it.Here the inhabitants erected the celebratedColossus, one of the wonders of the world, tothe honour of Apollo, or the San. This pro¬digious statue was made of brass, 76 cubits, ©r130 feet in height, proportionably big in everypart. It stood astride over the haven, so thatships could sail in and out between its lege. I»one hand it held a lighthouse, and in the other4a acqrtre; and its head represented a goldensun. ITie space between the two feet was 109yards ; and two men could scarce, with exten¬ded arms embrace its thumb. After havingstood 76 years, it was overturned by an earth¬quake, and though the Rhodians collected fromthe various Grecian states a prodigious sum todefray the expenses of repairing it, the moneywas embezzled, and the image was suffered tolie on the ground for upwards of 900 years,when the Sarcens took the city, and sold it asold brns' to a Jew, who loaded nearly 1000camels with it. It weighed 720,000lbs. avoir¬dupois. This wonderful work was made by ,Clares, a native of Rhodes, who was 12 years |in completing it. Just on the spot where the I;feet stood, a castle on one side, and a tower on jithe other were erected, and are standing there at |present The modern Christians of the islandare very poor, and are not allowed to live with- 1in the walL* of the city ; which privilege is Rgranted to thg Jews. The principal manafac-|tures are soap, tapestry, and camlets; but the fcity is a mart for all commodities made in the 1Levant. Yet Rhodes is kept merely in opposi¬tion to the Christians, al, it does not remit any ;thing to the Grand Vizer, the Turkish Bashaw |being allowed the whole of ite revenues to main- 1tain the gallies and himself.MURDERS WITHIN THE TOWER OF LONDON.In 1092 a violent tempest did great injury tothe Tower ; but it was repaired by WilliamRufus and bis successor. The first addedanother collateral building on the fourth side,between it and the Thames, which was after¬wards called St. Thomas’ Tower : beneath thatwas Traitor’s Gate, through which stateprisoners were brought from the river : and,under another, properly enoughcalledthe Bloodyj,for, until these happier ages, there was littledifference between confinement and the scaffold,or private assassination.Here fell the meek usurper Henry VI. bythe dagger of the profligate Gloucester. Here,full of horrors, died by the baud of hired ruffians,the unsteady Clarence. Here the sweet inno¬cents, Edward V. and his brother, perished,victims to the ambition of their remorseless uncle.And the empoisoning of Sir Thomas Overbymakes up the sum of the known murders, the| reproaches of our ancient fortress. We have( here a straight-room, or dungeon, called, fromI the misery which the unhappy occupier of thisvery confined place endures, the Little Ease.| But this will appear a luxurious habitationi when compared with the inventions of the age>! of Louis XI. of France ; with his iron cages,in which persons of rank lay for whole years :or his oubliettes, dungeons made in the form ofreversed cones, concealed with trap-doors, downwhich dropped the unhappy victims of the tyrant.Sometimes their sides were plain, sometimes setwith knives or sharp-edged wheels : hot, ineither case, the devoted were certain to fall intothe land where all things bore little resemblanceto that which they left behind.EXTRAORDINARY PUNCH BOWL.On the 2oth October, l()9f, a bowl of punchwas made at the Right Hon. Edward Russel’s,fwhen he was Captain-General and Commandin'in Chief of his Majesty’s forces in the Mediter¬ranean sea. It was made in a fountain in thegarden, in the middle of four walks, all coveredover with lemon and orange trees, and in everywalk was a table the whole length of it, coveredwith cold collations, &c. In the said fountainwere the following ingredients, viz. 4 hogsheadsof brandy—8 hogsheads of water—‘-25,000lemons—20 gallons of lime juice—1300 poundsweight of fine Lisbon sugar—5lbs. of gratednutmegs—300 toasted biscuits, and, lastly, apipe of dry Mountain Malaga. Over the foun¬tain was a large canopy, built to keep off therain ; and there was built on purpose a little boat,wherein was a boy belonging to the fleet, whorowed round the fountain, and filled the cups ofthe company; and in all probability 6000 mendrank thereof.7HETRIBUnOy.>]Jfern-f ib:!• is pretty generally known that the Maided,an instrument for beheading criminals, was in¬troduced into Scotland by Earl Morton, andthat he was the first person that suffered by it.M. GuiHotine, a French Surgeon, who gave hisname to an improvement of the, Maiden, whichbecame so dreadful an engine of vengeanceduring the French revolution, also suffered byhis own invention. A more obscure personthan either of these fell into his own snare.This was Deacon Brodie, who w'as executedabout thirty years ago for robbing the Excise-office in Edinburgh. He was a man of goodbirth, and his manners more of the Macheaththan any culprit that has appeared for the lasthalf century. This gay Deacon of the Carpen¬ters of Edinburgh invented the,drop, by whichall criminals now suffer in Britain, and, strangeto say, he was the first man who was hanged onhis own commodious gallows. His friends hadsome notion that the new invention might notdo the business so effectually as the old leapfrom a ladder in the Grass-market, and theyprevailed on himself to adopt some device of asilver tube inserted in the windpipe, for the pur¬pose of still farther reducing the chances. TheDeacon came forth very gaily with his silvertube, a well dressed peruke, and a very grandsilk waistcoat, but alas ! “ Brodie’s drop” wastoo much for Brodie ! The Deacon’s body re¬sisted every effort that was made towards pro-8dacing re-snimation ; and although a foolishstory' was circulated of his having revived, andbecame a leading member of Congress in theUnited States of America, yet it is certain thathis own drop finished his life.SINGULAR DELIVERANCE.Three hunters were in pursuit of a Chamois ona glacier, which was so covered with snow thatit was impossible to see the deep chasms intowhich, when melting, the water precipitateditself in torrents. The foremost of them waswalking over one of these treacherous abysses,when the snow gave way, and the poor fellowdisappeared. In spite of his fright, he fortun¬ately retained sufficient presence of mind tothrow out his arms and legs, when falling insuch a manner as to remain suspended betweentwo walls of ice, with a view of the torrentsroaring fts they fell into the horrid gulph benoathhim. His comrades having- lost aipdit of him,began to be apprehensive that he had met withsome accident; and on making the signal, pre¬viously concerted among themselves, they knewthat he was in danger, and required immediateassistance. They returned as speedily as pos¬sible to the nearest hamlet, (a good league dis¬tant) in quest of cords. Disappointed of findingany, they took a miserable bed quilt, cut it instrjps, which they tied together, and flew to thespot where they had left their unfortunate com-9panion, who had continued during all this timein his painful position. They let down thecord they had contrived to make, and which thepoor fellow fastened round his body : but oh,horror ! at the very moment they had pulled himup to the brink of the precipice, the rope broke,the wretched man fell a second time into theyawning gulph; and to add to his misfortune,broke his arm. His comrades, however, joinedthe rope, twisted it to make it stronger, andthrew it again to their companion, who, not¬withstanding the fracture of his arm, fastenedit round him, and was at length extricated fromhis most perilous situation.TURKISH MANSERS, DESCRIBED BY A LADY.From some of the windows I look across thatharbour called the Golden Horn by the ancients,and from others can see the sea of Marmora,the islands therein, and a part of the Seraglio ;from mine, I saw yesterday, the Sultan sittingon a silver sofa, while his boats, and many ofthe people who were to accompany him, werelining the banks of the garden. A magnificentsight, as they are of a light shape, gilt, andpainted very beautifully. We had a largetelescope, and saw the Ottoman splendour verydistinctly. The sultan dyes his heard black, togive himself a young look,' and he is knownat a considerable distance by that, which con¬trasts singularly with his face, that is extremelylivid and pale. The kiosk, which containedhim and his silver sofa, was not very large, andlike a hundred others to be seen on the canal.It is strange how words gain, in other coun¬tries, a signification different from the meaningthey possess in their own. SeraiL or Seraglio,is generally understood as the habitation, or 1rather the confinement for women ; here it isthe sultan’s residence ; it cannot be called hispalace, for the kiosks, gardens, courts, walls,stables, are so mixed, that it is many houses inmany gardens.The streets both of Pera and Constantinopleare so narrow that few of them admit of acarriage; the windows of every story projrGiover those under them, so that at the upperpeople may shake hands sometimes across thestreet. iNo Turk of any consequence makes avisit, if it is only four doors from his own, buton horseback ; and, on my arrival here, I sawone who landed in a boat, and had a fine greyhorse led by four men, that went a long wayround, which he mounted gravely, to get off ina few minutes.As to women, as many, if not more than men,are to be seen in the streets, but they look likewalking mummies. A large loose robe of greendoth covers them from the neck to the ground;over that is a large piece of muslin, which wrapsthe shoulders and the arms, and another whichgoes over the head and eyes. If I was to walkabout the streets here, I would certainly wearthe same dress, for the Turkish women caUIIothers names, when they meet them with the'rfaces uncovered. When I go out I have theambassador’s sedan chair, which is like mine inLondon, only gilt and varnished like a Frencheoach, and six Turks carry it, as they fancy itimpossible that two or four men can carry one ;two Janissaries walk before, with high fur capson. The Ambassadors here have all Janissariesas guards allowed them by the Porte. It iswell, I have but a little way to go in thispomp, fearing every moment the Turksshould fling me down, they are so awkward ;for the platform, where people land and embarkfrom and to Ptsra, is not far from this house.I saw a Turk the other day lying on cushions,striking slowly an iroft which h4 Was shapinginto a horse-shoe, his pipe in his mouth all thetime—nay, among the higher orders of Turksthere is an invention which saves them thetrouble of holding the pipe—two small wheelsare fixed on each side of the bowl of the pipe,and thus the smoker has only to puff away, orlet the pipe rest ou his upper lip, while he moveshis head as he pleases. Perhaps, it is lucky forEurope that the Turks are idle and ignorant—the immense power this empire might have, wereit peopled by the industrious and ambitious, wouldmake it mistress of the world. At present itonly serves as a dead wall, to intercept the com¬merce and battles which other powers mightcreate with another.The l urks in their conduct towards our »#xare an example to all other nations ; a Turk hasJp — " *       his head cut off, his papers are examined, everything in bis house seized, but the wife is pro¬vided for j her jewls are left her.I he harem is sacred even to that rapaciouspower, which has seized the master’s life onlybecause he was rich. It may be said, that in1 urkey, likewise, women are perfectly safe from 1an idle, curious, impertinent public, and what iscalled the world can never disturb the ease andquiet of a Turkish w ife. Her talents, her beau¬ty, her happiness, or misery, are equally con¬cealed from malicious observers. Of misery,unless a Turkish woman is beyond conceptionunreasonable, I cannot imagine her portion canbe great; for the wife, whose wretched husbandearns subsistence by carrying water, or burthens, isits at home bedecked with jewels, or goes out }as her fancy directs, and the fruits of his labourare appropriated to her use. In great houses,the wives of the Turks, wiio compose the trainof a Turkish husband, are destined to be sub¬servient to the state of the first wife, and shetreats"them as she pleases.HEROISM AND AFFECTION.A woman in Northampton county, in the UnitedStates, having observed a rattle-snake coiled ona low- near the house, she took her husband’srifle out to shoot it, but setting die gun at theend of the log, concluded to kill it with a stick,which she effected j when reaching for the rifle.iISand drawing it towards her, the lock struck ai knot, the gun went oil, and the ball entered heri left side and came out near the shoulder. Shedid not fall, but took the rifle into the house andi set it up, took her infant from the cradle, andbidding one of the elder children to press herhand on the wound, to check the effusion ofI blood, GAVE SUCK to the BAiiY,—thus ex¬emplifying the “ruling passion strong in death,”—the last thought of the mother was associatedwith the comfort of her little one. A few hours! .after the woman was found a corpse.WAR AND COMMERCE.lilt is estimated that more than a million of bush-)|els of human and inhuman bones were importednlast year from the continent of Europe to theuport of Hull. The neighbourhood of Leipsic,il Austerlitz, Waterloo, and all the places where,i during the late bloody war, the principal battles' were fought, have been swept alike of tlie honeslljof the hero and of the hoise which he rode., Thus collected from every quarter, they haveIt been shipped to the port of iiull, and thence|forwarded to the Yorkshire bone-grinders, who.sjhave erected steam engines ;uid powerful ma-fiehinery, for the purpose of reducing them to aIgrauulary state. In this condition they are sentchiefly to Doncaster, one of the largest agricul¬tural markets in that part of the country, andnare s#ld to the farmers to manure their lands.m I * : .L_   The oily substance gradually involving as thebone calcines, makes a more substantial manurethaa almost any other substance, particularlyhuman bones. It is now ascertained beyond adoubt, by actual experiments upon an extensivescale, that a dead soldier is a most valuable Iarticle of commerce: and, for auafht known tothe contrary, the good farmers of Yorkshire are,iu a great measure, indebted to the bones oftheir children for their daily bread. It is cer¬tainly a singular fact, that Great Britain should 'have sent out such multitudes of soldiers to lightthe.battles of this country upon the continent ofEurope, and should then import their bones as^ticle of commerce to fatten her soil!!HONESTY.A gentleman passing through the streets of New-sastle, about twenty years ago, was called in bya shopkeeper, who acknowledged himself in- rdebted to him to the amount of a guinea. Thegentleman much astonished, inquired how thiswas, as he had no recollection of the circumstance.The shopkeeper replied, that about twenty years |sbefore, as the gentleman’s wife was crossing the |.river Tyne in a boat which he was in, she acci-dentally dropt half-a-guinea, as she took out her ’money to pay the fare. The shopkeeper, whohad a family at home literally starving, snatched i;up the half-guinea. He had since been prosper¬ous in the world, and now seized the first oppor¬tunity, since his good fortune, of paying the *,money with interest.ISFRUITS OF NDUSTKT.Franklin, the greatest philosopher ami etatesmamof America, was once a printer’s boy; Simpson,the Scotch mathematician, and author of manylearned works, was at first a poor weaver ;Herschel, one of the most eminent astronomers,rose from the low station of a lifer boy in thearmy. These examples show us tire happy•il'ects of assiduity and perseverance.wn.LIAM PENN, AND THS INDIANS.1 Voltaire says, that the treaty which AVilliamjj Penn made with the Indians in America is the% » “ ■T" ~ -only treaty between tfcose people and the chris-, tians that was not ratified by an oath, and wasnever intringed. Mr. Penn endeavoured tou settle his new colony upon the most equitableprinciples, and took great pains to conciliate thegoo.i will ot the natives. He appointed com¬missioners to treat with them, and purchasedfrom them the land of the province, acknowledg¬ing them to be the original proprietors. As the| land was ot little value to the natives, he obtainedl his purchase at a moderate rate; but by hisi equitable conduct, he gave them so high anopinion ol him, and by his kind and humanei behaviour so ingratiated himself in their favour,that the American Indians have ever since ex¬pressed a great veneration for his memory, and.styled the governor of Pennsylvania, onias,(Which in their language signifies a pen. At the16renewal of the treaties with Sir William Keith,the governor, in 17^2, the Indians, as thehighest compliment they could pay him, said,“ We esteem and love you, as if you wereWilliam Penn himself.”POWER OF MUSIC.A French Officer, during his confinement inthe Bastile, used to amuse himself with playingon the lute. He had long thus diverted hiemelancholy, when playing one day, he observed,to his great astonishment, a number of miceissuing from their hoes, and even spidersfTGeping forth. He repeated the experiment iwith the same effect several times; and evenfound some entertainment in observing the atten- j.tive audience which he could assemble whenever |*he pleased. We have no reason to suppose this Ifofficer an Orpheus, yet it is certain that his Iflute captivated animals which might he supposed Itinsensible to “ the pleasure of sweet sounds.”CURIOUS CHARACTER.'file Rev. Mr Hagamore of Catshoge,Leicestershire, was a very singular character.He died the 1st of January, 1/76, possessedof the following effects, viz. £7(d0. per annum,and £1000 in money, which, as he died intes¬tate, fell to a ticket-porter in London. He kept■it,.tii.17one servant of each sex, whom he locket? upevery night. His last employment of an even¬ing was to go round his premises, let loose hisdogs, and tire his gun. He lost his life asfollows : Going one morning to let out his ser¬vants, the dogs fanned upon him suddenly, andthrew him into a pond, where he was founddead. His servants heard his call for assistance,but being locked up, they could not lend himany. He had 30 gowns and cassocks, 100 pairof breeches, 100 pair of hoots, 400 pair of shoes,80 wigs, yet alway wore his own hair, .58 dogs,80 waggons and carts, 80 ploughs,- and used' none, ,50 saddles, and furniture of the stable,SO wheel-barrows, so many walking-sticks, thatI a toyman in Leicestei-fields offered £8 forthem, GO horses and mares, 200 pickaxes, 200spades and shovels, 74 ladders, and 249 razors.1 -LETTER WRITING.“ Dear Brother Tom,This cams hopein to find you in goodhelth as it leaves me safe anchor’d here yester¬day at 2 p. m. after a pleasant voyage tolerablyshort and few squalls—Dear Tom, hopes to findpoor old Father Stout, and am quite out of pig¬tail—Sights of pig-tail at Gravesend, but un¬fortunately not fit for a dog to clior—Dear Tom,Captain’s boy will bring you this and put pig-|tail in his pocket when bort—Best in Londonat the black boy in 7 dilea, where go, acks forIS♦he best pip: tail—pound pig-toil will do and amshort of shirts, Dear Tom, as for shirts onlytook two whereof one is quite worn out, tuthermost, hut dont forget the pig-tail, as I had nota quid to chor, never since Thursday—DearTom, as for shirts your size will do only longer— I like um long—get one at present, best atTower bill, and cheap—but be particular to goto seven diles for the pig-tail at the black hoyand Her Torn acts for Pound best pig-tail, andlet it be good—Captain’s hoy will put pig-tailin his pocket he likes pig-tail, so ty it up—DearTom, shall he up about Monday or thereabouts.Not so particular for the shirt, as the presentcan he. washed hut dont forget the pig-tail with-'©ut fail, so am your loving brother.“ T. P.“ P. S.—Dont forget the pig-tail.”DOGS AND CATS.M. Sonini, in his “ Travels in Egypt,” in¬forms us that dogs are, in that country, ohjcctsMof peculiar abhorrence. They are never per-*mitted to enter the dwelling of a Mahommedan ;ij.and, if one is found in a mosque, he is immediate- &ly put to death. In consequence of this excom¬munication from the society which this animaseems instinctively disposed to cultivate, theEgyptian dogs live for the most partin the ope?air, feeding upon garbage and any other flitthat chance throws in their way. Yet they ar10found to be faithful protectors of the propertyand even persons of the very men by whom tlierare thus despitefully treated ; although, Soninij remarks, it is extremely curious to see the painstaken by a Mussulman, and a dog, when theirhappen to meet, to avoid coming in contact witheach other. Notwithstanding this state of per¬secution, dogs are remarkably numerous in thej town of Egypt. The species is a large one, about| the size and make of our greyhound. As a proof| of the Mahommedan prejudice against the usefuli,animal, it is sufficient to state, that they regardj the terms Christian and dog as synonimous—iboth, of course, in the most opprobrious sense,i As a singular contrast to the foregoing, we maynow notice the veneration in which cats havepi ever been held by the Egyptians, who, inancient times, even worshipped them. Andi historians tell us, that Eerbastis and Atribes,two towns in Egypt, the former a votary of catsand the latter of mice, contracted, on thataccount, so strong an antipathy to each other,jthat the inhabitants were never known to inter-imarry, although only a few miles asunder. InCsome parts of India, too, we are told, they haveia similar reverence for Grimalkin, as the only'j icritries punished capitally there are the murderof a man aad a cat.MIRACLE OF THE SKULL.Two men digging a grave in a church-yard,lat Macon, upon the river Seine, found a skull,20trhich they threw upon the grass by them, withthe common unconcern of" grave diggers ; butsoon after perceiving it to stir, they ran to theCurate of the parish, and told him what theyhad seen. The superstitious Curate unmediate-ly supposed it was the *ku'l of some Saint, thathad been buried in that place, and thereforeposted thither, where, to his great surprise andjoy, he found the skull still moving, upon v/hichhe cried out, a miracle ! a miracle ! arid resolvedto have the precious relic deposited in hischurch, with all proper ceremonies : for whichpurpose he sent in all haste for a consecrateddish, a cross, and holy water, his surplice, stoic,and cap, ordered all the hells to he rung, andsent to give notice of the joyful news to theparishioners, who thronged in crowds to theplace. Then he had the skull placed in theconsecrated dish, and being covered with a nap¬kin, it was carried to the church in procession ;during which great debates arose among theparishioners, every owe insisting that some oftheir family had been hurried in that place, inorder that they might assume to themselves thehonour of having a saint in their family. Upontheir arrival at the church, the,skull was placedou the high alter, and Tje Deum was begun*,but when they came to the verse Te per Ok hem,a mole unluckily crawling out of the skull dis¬covered the secret cause of its motion : uponwhich a stop was put to the ceremony, and thecongregation beinggreatly disappointed,dispersed.21VESSEL DASHED TO PIECES BY A WHALE.On the 19th of November, 1821, the Essex.: a Russian Vessel, of 250 tons which was em-j ’■ployed in the whale fishery was in lat. 47 deg.! S. and long. 118 deg. W. from Greenwich, andi consequently about 500 geographical miles to thei west of the Patagonian coast, when it was sur-i rounded by whales j and one of them of theI largest size gave it so violent a blow with hi*tail, that the keel of the vessel was partly laidi bare. The monster stopped some time neartheI ship, endeavouring to strike it again with hisj tail: uot being able to succeed, he swain beforei the vessel to the distance of about half a werst,I (one third of an English mile) then at once heii swam back, and struck the prow with suchi violence, that notwithstanding the rapidity of herrj course, under full sail, the vessel receded,ii and this retrograde movement was almost as| rapid as her advance forwards. rl he damagey which was occasioned by this gigantic shock isi not to be described. The waves broke into theship through the cabin windows, all the personswho happened to be on deck, were throwndown, the vessel filled with water, was laid onthe side, and did not right herself till the mast*were cut away.It was immediately evident that there wereno hopes of saving her. The crew thinkingonly’of their own safety, got into the two boats,,4 in which they embarked some provisions whichthey had with great difficulty taken ont of the22sinking' vessel. A month after, this ia on the20th of December, these unfortunate people ar-rived at the Isle of Ducie, where they stoppedeight days : but not finding any provisions there,they endeavoured to teach the continent of•»( ath America, leaving, however, three of theiramapanions upon the island. A short timeafter this the two boats separated ; and one ofthem, which had only three men in her, metsixty days after their shipwreck, an Americanvessel, which took them on board. It was nottill ninety-six days after their departure from theisland of Duice, that the other bo;U: had the goodfortune to meet with a vessel : hut there wereonly two persons on hoard, the Captain and theeabin boy. Famine had reduced them to thehorrible necessity of eating each other ! Eighttimes they drew lots, and eight victims weresacrificed to the hunger of their surviving com¬panions. 'File lot had been already drawn whichcondemned the boy to the same fate, when lieand the Captain discovered the vessel whichsaved them. An English vessel, on her wayto Port Jackson, in New Holland, touched atthe Island of Dure. A gun having been fired,the crew soon afterwards saw the throe menwho had been left there come out of the wood.A boat was sent to bring them on board the ship., A REMEDY FOR DROUeHT.A serious confabulation took place ope fineforenoon, at a sea port not fifty miles from Toyin»Itsrnid'rhiIf»'!hi!Ill-pi!f' it.-:lit!r.t23bar, oh the most efficient remedy for the dronthy■ consequences of sacrificing' too freely to a cer-■ tain tun-bellied deity. “ The most sovereignspecific that has ever been invented,” said acockney traveller, “ ia a pretty stiffish glass off brandy and vater.” To this an Edinburgh11 scribe gave the lie implied, by substituting gin-I ger beer for the traveller’s water. Some re-; commended brown soup—some mock turtle—others launched out in the praises of Barclay,; Perkins, and Co.—while a few ventured to sayIsome feeble things in favour of *he produce ofEdinburgh, Alloa, or Auchtertool. SaundersDuthie frae Aberdeen, listened with patience un-; til Amen, when suddenly he exclaimed (like abeing inspiredJ, “ Ye may crack o’ yere brownsoops an’ yere bran’y, yere mock turtles an yer*Iginger beer, an yere porter an’ yill tee, but de’ilnbae me gin ever I got ony thing for a scowderedlistamack like a gude clyte o’ caul cate.”The following is a statement of ammunition, &c.expended on board bis Majesty’s ship, Albion,n the action with the Turkish fleet at Navarin,pn the 20th of October :—Powder, 7 tons ;round shot, 52 tons ; gra|>e and canister, 54teases ; musket ball, 5,000 ; pistol ball, 2,000..nitistol ball, ia bags, 2,000 ; and iron crow bars, ti.I24INDIAN PUNISHMENT.In one of the Bombay Journals for 1814, thereis the following account of the punishment of a jcriminal at Baroda, by an elephant. The man |was a slave, and two days before had murderedhis master, brother to a native chieftain, named jAmeer Sahib. About eleven o’clock the ele- |]|phant was brought out, with only the driver onhis back, surrounded by natives with bamboosin their hands. The criminal was placed thr<« jyards behind on the ground, his legs tied by ■three ropes, which were fastened to a ring on |die right hind leg of the animal. At every step Ufthe elephant took, it jerked him forwards, and Ieight or ten steps must have dislocated every plimb, for they were loose and broken when the ielephant had proceeded five hundred yards. The iman, though covered with mud, showed everysiffn of life, and seemed to be in the mostexcruciating torments. After having beentortured in this manner about an hour, he was itaken to the outside of the town, when theelephant, which is instructed for such purposes, |is backed, and puts bis foot on the head of rhe•rimiual.F / N I S.