THEAuld Goodman:O R, T H E.Good wife Victorious.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,THE VALIANT SOLDIER.TRAY, BE QUIET! DO!; R E M E D Y F O 11 P A I N.[The FAITHFUL T A R.THE AULD GOODMAN.LA T E in an ev'ning forth I went,t a little before the fun gaed down.And there I chanc’d by accident,to light on a battle new begun:A man and his wife were fa’n in ftrife,I canna well tell you how it began jBut ay the wail’d her wretched life,and crj’d, ever, alake my au!d goodman.H E.i’hy auld goodman that thou talks of,tht’. country kens where he was born, *Was but a filly poor vagabond,and ilka ane leugh him to fcorn;For he did fpend and mak an end,of gear that his forefathers wan.He gart the poor ftand frac the door,foy tell me rae mair of thy aulu goodman.S II E.My he^rt, idake! is liking to break,when l think on my winfome John,His blinker* eye, and his gait fae free,was naethinglike thee, thou dozen'd droneiHis rpfy face, and flaxen hair,and a (kin as white as ony fwan,Was large and tall, and comely withal,and thou’ll ne’er be like my auld gooUinan.|!1( 3 )Hs ) Why doft thou ’p'cea ? I thee mamtatc,for meal and mawt thou difna want;But thy wild bees 1 canna pleafe,now when our £ecr gins to grow feant.Of houfehald Huff thou haft enough,thou wants for neither pat nor pan $Of licklike ware he left thee bare,fae tell nae tnair o’ thy auld goodmao.She.) Yes, I may tell, and fret myfel*,to think on thefe blythe days l had.When he and I together layin arms into a weel made bed jBut now I figh aid may be fad,thy cour-age is canid, thy colour wan,Thou faulds thy feet, and fa’s afleep,and thou’ll ne’er be like my auld goodtr;w>Then coming was the night fae dark,and gane was a’ the light o’ day ;The carl was fear’d to milk his mark,and therefore wad na" langer Hay.Then up he gat, and he ran dismay,I trow the wife the day ihe wan,And ay the o’erword o’ the fray,was ever, alakei my auld goodman.THE VALIANT SOLDIER.GO ME all you lovers far and near,within bold Britain’s douric,Attentive be, and liften to me,while I relate my fiery ;(4)There’s fome calls me a <]uict voung lad,and others a wild rover.But I tell you I’m neither of the two,for I’m a joiiy foloitr.I chearfully left my pipe and pot,to go where drums were beating.That raufic’s fweeter far to hear, -than a lever’s tales intreating :For woman’s cries I do defpife,1 love ray foes to conquer.And follow the drums where cannons roarjuft like a valiant foldier.t*A foldier lives the happieft lifea!mol! ^un be enjoyed.Each day to fpend his frugal pay,his time is moft employed;So this each day we pafs away,each day and night all over.And go where 1 will, 1 go by the nameof a loyal hearted foldier.So full of glee, my landlady,will all her joys difeover,And when my landlord he comes home.Hi play the wanton lover :So this each day I’ll pafs away,each day and night all over $Contented and free in unity,bleft be each jovial foldier.When Britain again has peace proclaim’d,then home FU be returning,( 5 ) ,IThen every foul oi.t over his bowl,lhail drink his former mourning ;Let .each take his glal's and then his iafs,and drink, to each true lover ;Bad luck unto he that would not drink freeto every loyal foidier.B E Q^U 1 E T! DO!|T ‘ O M G time with Sylvia have I tlrove,H1 x Oft told her of my faithful love,And vo' v’d for to be true ;Yet the coy fair with feign'd redraint,Always reprov’d my fond complaint.With, pray be quiet do!With, pray be quiet, do!Lafl May-Jay walking o’er the green,l faw her dreft like ony queen.But when I nearer drew ;lAnd told in moving plaints my grief,Begging of her to give relief,She cry’d, Be quiet, Do! She, &c.Vex’d to the heart at lad to find.That Sylvia never would be kind,From her 1 went my way;UAnd lent a letter to her ilrait,fsThat 1 no more on her would wait,| Nor longer lor her ftay Nor, &c.CiTell, this foon melted all her pride,\nd then in anfwer thus reply’d,Hade, dear Philander, do;Come, quickly come, I’ll be your bride.In Hymen’s bands let us be ty’d.For I love none but you. For I lore, &c.Thefe-words reviv’d my dying love,I joyful, thank’d the Powers above,In raptures quick I flewTo Sylvia, and mads her my bride.Now flic no more with feigned pride.Cries, Pray, Be quiet, Do! Cries, &c.Learn, learn from hence ye nymphs & fwains,That tread the rural flow’ry plains.Come learn like us to love jAnd may we thro’ this mortal life.In fpite of difeord, noife, and ftrife.Be blefled from above. Be bleflfed, See,A K EM ED Y FOR PAIN.THIS great world is a trouble,where all mult their fortunes bear ;Make the moft of the bubble,you’ll have but neighbour’s fare.Let not jealoufy teaze ye,think of nought but to pleafe ye9What is paft is but in vainfor mortals to wilh again.When dull cares do attack ye,drink will thefe clouds reoel ;Four bottles will make yehappy, they feldom fail.V . *(, 7 )f th-s fifth fhould be wanted,cfk the gods, ’twill be granted jfbus, with cafe, you’ll obtaina remedy for ail your pain.THE FAITHFUL TAR."T^HE fails unfurl'd, the Ihip unmoor'd,IJL Her courfe to fleer, all hands onboard*Propitious eyery gale;fair Betfy on the beech deplores,Ter fiailor bound to diflatt fliores.But nought her tears avail.D cruel Fate ! ye Powers above,i ikyhy thus bereft of him I love ?Who on the refllefs deep,e boifPrcus tide mull ceafclefs brave,meet perchance a wat’ry grave,Whilft l but live to weep.^Twelve months elaps'd when he return’d.-t ier cor/dant heart with rapture burn'd,* I'was free from every care $a?or Henry's love, his heart, his foul,i .Vere true as needle to the p«jie.When abfent from the fur.' in W’edded blifs they tafte delight,1*70 winds difturbr*nor florins afi'right.The lovely Betfy's breaH;It or now he makes a firm decree,c ;o more to trail the raging fea,.With her completely bleft.( 3,)JOHNNY and MOLL Y.DOWN the burn and thro* the mead,his golden locks wav’d o*er his brow,Johnny lilting, tun’d his reed,and Mary wip’d her bonny mcu\Dear fhe lo’ed the well known, fong,while her Johnny, blythe and young, 'Sung her praife the whole day long,Chor. Down the burn and thro’ the mead,his golden locks wav'd o’er his brow,Johnny, liking, tun'd his reed,and Mary wip'd her bonny mQu*.Coftly claithes lire had but few;of tings and jo. els nae great (lore.Her face was fair- her love was true,and Johnny wifely wilh’d nae raair:Love’s the peari the Ihepherd’s prize,o’er the mountain, near the fountain,Love delights tJie fhepherd’s eyes.Down the burn, &c.Gold and titles give not health,anti Johnny rou'd not thefe impart;Ydutbfu’ Mary's greatefl wealthwas flill her faithfu’ Johnny's heart;Sweet the joy that lovers find,great the treafure, fweet tke pleafure.Where the he?.rt is always kind. Down&c*... ^jrmverszasBvamnMm!^ i. mGLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, Saltmarkct,,igoi. i