NEW AND IMPEOVED SEKIES.No. 27.THEL I F E*1ftftftftftDUKE OF WELLINGTON; ftCONTAININGAN ACCOUNT OF HIS EARLY LIFE;HIS BRILLIANT ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE PENINSULAR WARS ;ANDHIS CROWNING VICTORY AT WATERLOO.ftftftftft' ■ '<.■LIFE OF THEDUKE OF WELLINGTON.The Hon. Arthur Wellesley, third son of theEarl of Mornington, was born at the family seat, onthe first of May, 1769. The loss occasioned by theearly death of their father, was supplied to the familyby the prudence and attention of their mother. Ofthe childhood and youth of the distinguished subjectof the following biography, no incidents worth re¬cording have been preserved. After having studiedat Eton, having made choice of the profession of arms,he was removed to the military school of Angers,which at that time enjoyed great celebrity, and wasa diligent student of those various branches of theo¬retical and practical science which are necessary tothe formation of the accomplished soldier. He re¬ceived his first commission as ensign in the 73rd foot,in 1787, when in his eighteenth year. As subalternand captain he served both in the cavalry and in¬fantry; in 1793, he was appointed to a majority inthe 33rd foot; and in the spring of that year, he be¬came Lieutenant Colonel of the same corps, by pur¬chase. All this time he was busily engaged withprofessional studies; but being now in command of aregiment, he was naturally anxious for active service.An opportunity was soon afforded, and his regimentlanded in Ostend, in June, 1794, having been sent tojoin the forces commanded by the Duke of York.The state of affairs upon the Continent was thencritical; the allied forces were placed in a disadvan-4THK LIFE OF THEtageous position, and bad already sustained severalreverses of fortune. The Austrians had been thricedefeated; the Hanoverians had been compelled toevacuate Bruges; the Duke of York had been drivenfrom his position at Ghent, and Lord Moira, with aforce of 8,000 men, originally intended to make a de¬scent on Brittany, was compelled to hasten to his as¬sistance. Colonel Wellesley’s regiment, with two otherbattalions, was directed to proceed by sea toAntwerp ; and here the future conqueror first beheldan army in the field. Yet, to an ardent mind, themovements of the British in thiscampaign, which werewholly defensive, must have been somewhat disheart¬ening. Few opportunities of distinction presentedthemselves, but these few were improved. Tiie 33rdregiment was engaged in several sharp skirmishes;and so well did its young commander acquit him¬self, that, towards the close of the campaign, hewas selected by General Dundas to cover, withthe brigade to which he was attached, the difficult andtrying retreat from Holland; the manner in whichColonel Wellesley discharged this trust, rendered hima marked man, and was an earnest of his future fame.The army had formidable obstacles to struggle with.Their route lay through a deserted and flat heathycountry; the villages, or rather hamlets, were smalland at distant intervals; the ground was covered withsnow, and the wind and sleet beat directly againsttheir faces. Many perished from cold and fatigue.The army, however, returned to England with untar¬nished honour, if with doubtful success; they hadfailed because of divided councils, deficiency of sup¬plies, and scanty numbers. Yet though his first cam¬paign was far from brilliant, the active observationand energetic mind of Colonel Wellesley must havederived many advantages from it. He had seen some¬thing of war upon an extended scale; had felt theneed of forethought and energy; had become awareDUKE OF WELLINGTON.5of the defects of the regimental economy at that time(defects afterwards amply remedied by the diligenceand wisdom of the Commander-in-Chief) ; his posi¬tion had fostered that coolness and caution so visiblein his after career. He had become familiar with thesound of war, amid which so much of his subsequentlife waste be spent; he had heard the inspiring cheerof the British soldier, and felt that confidence in hisnerve and vigour, which in his future fields, taughthim to rely on their powers, in those great and daringactions, which his skilful combinations crowned withsuccess.The ' 3rd regiment was soon after ordered to accom¬pany the fleet of Admiral Christian, destined for theWest Indies; but the protracted and furious galescaused the expedition to be abandoned, after sixweeks of most tempestuous weather at sea. In thespring, however, of 1796, Colonel Wellesley’s corpswas ordered to embark for India. Their commanderwas then labouring under a severe illness, but imme¬diately upon his recovery, set sail and joined them atthe Cape, and after arriving at Bengal, reached Cal¬cutta early in 1797- It was remarked that duringhis passage, be occupied much of his time in the per¬usal of the chief works relating to India, thus storinghis mind with well-digested information, and prepar¬ing it to meet future emergencies.His success in India sufficiently proved that he wasvvell fitted to serve his country with profit and honour.In tho spring of 1802, he was promoted to the rankof Major General; and two years after, he was createda Knight Commander of the Bath.In 1805, Sir Arthur Wellesley returned to England,and being appointed to command a brigade in the armyof Lord Cathcart, sailed with it for Hanover in Nov¬ember of that year. But the battle of Austerlitz ren¬dered it prudent to recall the expedition without anyadvantage having been gained. On his return, Sir0THE LIFE OF THEArthur was appointed to the command of a home dis¬trict; and.upon the death of Marquis Cornwallis,was made Colonel of the 33rd regiment, in which hehad served for thirteen years as Lieutenant-Colonel.In 1806, he became a member of the House of Com¬mons, having been elected representative for Newport,in the Isle of Wight. In the same year, he marriedthe Hon. Catherine Pakenham, sister to the Earl ofLongford.In April, 1807, he was appointed Chief Secretaryfor Ireland, and a Privy Councillor under the Dukeof Richmond. One of the chief measures introducedby him in the former capacity, was the establishmentof a police in the city of Dublin, which, though vio¬lently opposed, was at length carried, and has sinceproved an important benefit. Several other arrange¬ments of a civil and municipal nature, were likewiseadopted at his suggestion.But his exertions in the military service of hiscountry, were now to be claimed anew. The restlessambition of Napoleon, incessantly directed against thecommerce and prosperity of Britain, was bent uponthe creation of a power that might rival her upon the■seas. In furtherance of his object,—by the establish¬ment of a continental system to place -England in astate of blockade, by all the European powers,—hehad resolved to close the Baltic ports against ourships. He seems to have formed the design of seizingthe Danish fleet, probably to make it the basis of afuture navy, with which, not only to blockade theports, but also to be used in the invasion of England.It appeared necessary, therefore, that this formidableweapon of mischief should be taken out of his hands.An armament, consisting of twenty-seven ships ofthe line, got ready in secresy, was wisely planned up¬on a large scale. The troops, amounting to 20,000men, were commanded by Lord Cathcart. Sir ArthurWellesley was at the head of the reserve. The fleetDUKE OF 'SVFI.I.INCTONT.7was under Admiral Gambier; one division sailed bythe Great Belt, in order to blockade Zealand; theother, with the army on board, having arrived in theSound, prepared for active operations. .In the only combat of any importance, which tookplace near Kioge, Sir Arthur Wellesley commanded.He attacked a body of Danish troops, which contestedthe position ; pursued them to a strong entrenchmentin their rear; again driving them from this by assault,be forced into the town, and routed them with con¬siderable loss. This action accelerated the conclusionof the campaign, by depriving the Governor of Copen¬hagen of all hopes of assistance from the army.On his return to England, Major-General Wellesleyhaving resumed his seat in the House of Commons,was addressed by the Speaker, who returned thethanks of the country to himself, and his bravecoadjutors, in the following terms:—“I should bewanting in the full expression of those sentimentswhich animate this House, and the whole country, if‘I forbore to notice, that we are on this day crowningwith our thanks, one gallant officer well known tothe gratitude of this House, who has long trodden thepaths of glory; whose genius and valour have alreadyextended our fame and empire; whose sword hasbeen the terror of our distant enemies, and will notnow be drawn in vain to defend the seat of empireitself, and the throne of his King. I .am. Sir ArthurWellesley, charged to deliver the thanks of this Houseto you, and I accordingly thank you in the name ofthe Commons of the United Kingdom, for your zeal,intrepidity, and exertion, displayed in the variousoperations necessary for conducting the seige, and ef¬fecting the surrender of the navy and arsenal of Co¬penhagen.” Sir Arthur’s reply to this high eulogium,was truly characteristic. “The honour which thisHouse has conferred on myself and my friends, isjustly considered by the officers of the navy and army,8THE LIFE OF THEas the highest the country can offer; it is the objectand ambition of all who are employed in his Majesty’sservice; and to obtain it, has doubtless been the mo¬tive of many of those acts of valour and good conductwhich have tended so eminently to the glory, andhave advanced the prosperity and advantage of thiscountry.”Having resumed his duties as secretary for Ireland,Sir Arthur Wellesley frequently took part in thedeliberations of the House concerning Irish questions;but a new scene of action was now opening before him;the laurels he had acquired on the plains of India, wereto be thrown into the shade by the glorious conquestsof his Peninsular campaigns; he was to lead theBritish troops from one victory to another, to becheered by the shouts, and rewarded by the enthusi¬astic thanksgivings of a liberated people.The glorious victory of Talavera added a freshtriumph to many others which the British army hadgained. The Central Junta expressed their sense ofSir Arthur Wellesley’s services, by nominating him acaptain general in the Spanish service, and presentedhim with six Andalusian horses in the name of KingFerdinand. Higher honours awaited him at home :as soon as the news of his victory arrived, he wasraised to the peerage, by the title of Baron Douro ofWellesley, and Viscount Wellington of Talavera andWellington in Somersetshire.On the 23rd of November, 1800, Lord Wellingtonwas appointed Marshal General of the Portuguese ar¬my. No chief had ever before shown himself more de¬serving of such confidence from a foreign government;none, by the moral influence of his character, hadgiven such security that it would bo used aright.Throughout all his varied life, Wellington’s conducthas ever been a model of perfect disinterestedness;his greatest opponent could never lay to his chargeone act of rapacity, or needless severity; his virtuesDUKE OF WELLINGTON.9have been followed by blessed results—his laurels arepure and unstained.With the confidence of a great mind, he took uponhimself the charge and heavy responsibility of defend¬ing Portugal, looking forward without dismay to theissue of the contest. He had the satisfaction to findthat his suggestions were adopted, and that he enjoyedthe good-will and respect of all classes.In March, the French under Junot advanced uponAstorga with 12,000 men; they were at first repulsedwith the loss of 2,000 troops, but the garrison after¬wards capitulated. Junot then marched upon oldCastile, and joined the corps which had already com¬menced operations against the frontier of Portugal.In expectation of a siege, Ciudad Rodrigo andAlmeida were put in a state of defence, a BritishColonel, with 0,000 Portuguese, being appointed gov¬ernor of the latter. In May, three corps d'armee,called the army of Portugal, had been put underMassena, who had acquired the title of the “ Child ofvictory;” and it was expected by Napoleon that hismilitary talents would succeed in subduing the' country, and placing it finally under the French yoke.It was said that the crown had been promised himin the event of success. He was followed by 70,000of the best warriors of France. But among the hillslay the British army, strong in valour and determin¬ation, and presided over by the bold and sagaciousWellington. “The British lion was indeed in theway.” Massena, in the full expectation that theBritish would fly before him, ordered his soldiers tocarry food with them for 17 days, confidently hopingthat by that time Lisbon would be in his possession.When he saw Wellington’s army posted on the Sierrade Busaco, and meaning resistance, he said to one ofthe generals, “ I cannot persuade myself that LordWellington will risk the loss of his reputation ; but ifhe does, / have him ; to-morrow we shall complete10THE LIFE OF THEthe conquest of Portugal, and in a few days more, Ishall drown the Leopard.” Ills rash boasting wassoon at an end; he left 5,000 men killed or woundedupon the mountains, and as many more were left dis¬abled at Coimbra.Ciudad Rodrigo surrendered after a brief defence,during which the besiegers lost 9,000 men. Almeidawas the next object of the French; it was expectedto resist long, as it was well garrisoned and provided;but on the second day, the powder magazine blewup, and it was no longer tenable.The fall of Almeida allowed the enemy to advance,and on the 16th of September, Massena commencedhis march into Portugal. To meet him, Lord Wel¬lington crossed the Mondego, and occupied the Busacorange with his whole force, awaiting the French armyin that strong position.“The French Marshal was not ignorant of thestrength of the position which the English Generalhad now assumed, or of the perilous nature of thesituation in which he was placed, for while lying atthe foot of the ridge of Busaco, he received intelli¬gence that Colonel Trant had, with ten regiments ofmilitia, attacked the reserved artillery and militarychest near Tojal, and captured the whole, with 800prisoners; and already the communication by theSpanish frontier was entirely cut off by the Portu¬guese light parties. But the orders of the Emperorwere pressing, and he was well aware that fight hemust, at whatever disadvantage. Next day, collect¬ing therefore all his force, Massena commenced adesperate attack upon the English position, at day¬break of the morning of the 27th. The British army,during the night, lay in dense masses on the summitof the mountain.“ As the first streaks of dawn were beginning toappear over the eastern hills, a rustling noise washeard in the wooded dells which ran up to the crestDUKE OF WELLINGTON.11of the mountains. It arose from the French outposts,who stealing unobserved during the night, had thusgot close to the outposts of the English position with¬out being perceived.“ The alarm was instantly given, and the troopsstarted to their anus at all points. It was full time,for in a few minutes more the French, in two massivecolumns, were upon them. • Ney, with three divisions,numbering 25,000 combatants, advanced against theBritish left, by the great road leading to the conventof Busaco; while Regnier with two, moved by St.Antonio de Cantara, against their right, about threemiles distant. The first, headed by Loison’s division,preceded by a cloud of light troops, came rapidly upthe wooded hollow which leads to Busaco ; and theBritish sharp-shooters, driven before them, soonemerged from the woods, breathless and in disorder.Crawford, whose division stood at that point, hadstationed his artillery most advantageously to playupon the enemy during their ascent from the hollow;but though the guns were worked with extraordinaryrapidity, nothing could stop the undaunted advanceof the French troops. Emerging bravely from thehollow, they took their stand upon the edge of themountain. The British artillery was quickly drawnto the rear. The shout of victory is already heardfrom the French line, when suddenly, Crawford, withthe 43rd and 52nd regiments, springing out of a hol¬low behind the highest part of the ridge, where theylay concealed, appeared on the summit, and 1,800British bayonets sparkled on the crest of the hill.The head of the French column instantly fired, butin vain; it was broken and driven back ; both itsflanks were over-lapped by the English, and threeterrible discharges, within a few yards’ distance, drovethem headlong down, in wild confusion, and withdreadful loss, to the bottom of the hollow.“ The attack on the British right by the two divi-12THE LIFE OF THEsions of Regnier’s corps, met with no better success.The ground in that quarter was indeed of compara¬tively easy ascent, and although the British andPortuguese skirmishers opposed a vigorous resistance,and twenty pieces of cannon played incessantly onthe advancing column, yet nothing could arrest theardour and gallantry of the French, who mountedwith an intrepid step up the hill, and after routing aPortuguese regiment stationed before them, esta¬blished themselves on the summit, and were beginningto deploy to the right and left; at this instant, how¬ever, when the British position in this point appearedto be almost carried, and the third divison, (part ofwhich had been forced to give way) could with diffi¬culty maintain itself against the dense and intrepidcolumn which had forced itself into the centre of itsline. General Leith and General Picton brought uptheir divisions, and charged them with such vigour,that the enemy, after a desperate struggle, were hurleddown the hill, the British firing upon them as longas their muskets would carry, but not pursuing, lesttheir ranks should be broken, and the crest of the hillbe again won. The other French divisions ofRegnier’s corps, which advanced up a hollow way alittle to the left of his main column, were repulsed bythe left of Picton’s division, before they reached thesummit of the mountain.’’The battle of Busaco produced an astonishingeffect at the time at which it was fought; and in itsultimate consequences, was beyond all question oneof the most important that took place in the wholePeninsular war. After several other engagements, inwhich the superior generalship of Lord Wellingtonwas displayed, the French were driven out of Portu¬gal. They had advanced, confident in their superiornumbers, to “ drive the English into the sea,” and adisgraceful and dangerous retreat had alone preservedthem from destruction. The British cavalry chasedIDUKE OF WELLINGTON. 13them as far as the Spanish frontiers, after they hadbeen exposed to one unbroken series of disaster anddefeat.Similar conflicts, with the like successful results,took place at Barrossa, Albuera, Almeida, Salamanca,and Vittoria, and Lord Wellington again received thethanks of Parliament, for the able services renderedto his country. He was created a Marquis of theUnited Kingdom, to which was added the grant of<£100,000 to purchase lands, and enable him to sup¬port the dignity of the Peerage. The Prince of Brazilconferred on him the additional title of Duke ofVittoria. After the battle of Toulouse, he proceededto Paris, which he reached on the 4th of May, 1814,and was received with due respect by the sovereigns,statesmen, and generals, at the court of Louis XVIII.;everywhere high honours awaited him, and he hadalready received the insignia of every distinguishedorder in Europe. On the 10th of May he quittedParis, and after paying a four days’ visit to Toulouse,' repaired to Madrid, where Ferdinand confirmed thehonours paid to him by the Cortes, and appointedhim Captain-General of Spain. On the 5th of June,he left Madrid, went to Bourdeaux, reviewed thetroops, and made preparation for their embarkation.On the 23rd of June, he landed at Dover, under asalute from the batteries, and forthwith proceeded toLoudon; he was recognized as his carriage drove upParliament Street, and was greeted with shouts andapplause. After a short interview with his family,he hastened to Portsmouth, where the Prince Regentgave him a worthy reception: his distinctions hon¬oured him in the face of Europe, for the Emperor ofRussia and the King of Prussia were then at theEnglish court. On the 28th of June, he first tookhis seat in the House of Lords. A great number ofthe Peers were present. On this memorable occasionhe appeared in a field-marshal’s uniform, with the iu-   V14THE LIFE OF THEsignia of the Garter, and was introduced to the houseby the Dukes of Beaufort and Richmond. He hudnot been in England since his elevation to the peerage;and thus, in his introduction to the House of Lords,Ids patents of creation as Baron, Earl, Marquis, andDuke, were all read on the same day. No ceremonyof honour was omitted on this occasion; the Duchessof Wellington, and his mother, the Countess of Morn-ington, were present, seated below the throne. Afterthe oaths had been administered, and the Duke hadtaken his seat, the Lord Chancellor Eldon addressedhim for the purpose of conveying the thanks of theHouse, which had been voted to him the precedingevening, for the twelfth time.On Saturday the Dth of July, the Duke of Wel¬lington was entertained at a banquet by the corpora¬tion of London; great cost and magnificence weredisplayed on the occasion, and lie was presented withthe freedom of the city in a gold box, and with asplendid sword. In returning thanks, he, as invariablyon other occasions, gratefully alluded to the supportof his officers, and the bravery of his troops. Whenhe received the sword, he energetically declared thathe was ready, whenever called upon, to employ it inthe service of his king and country, should it unfor¬tunately happen that the general wish of Europe for apeace should be disappointed. He did not then sus¬pect how soon his pledge would be redeemed.On the 8th of August, he left England again, hav¬ing been appointed Ambassador Extraordinary andPlenipotentiary to the court of France. On his wayto Paris, he visited the Netherlands, and, in companywith the Prince of Orange, made a careful examina¬tion of the frontier fortresses on that line. On the24th of August, he was presented to Louis XVIIL,delivered his credentials, and took up his residence inParis.The intelligence of Napoleon’s return from Elba,DUKE OF ■WELLIHCTON.15struck Europe -with amazement. Louis had already-fled from the Tuilleries; and on the 20th of March,1815, the Emperor once more entered Paris, wherehe was received at the palace by all the adherents ofhis cause.The powers who signed the treaty of Paris werethen in congress at Vienna, where the Duke of Wel¬lington was present as the plenipotentiary of GreatBritain, having left Paris for that capital on the 24thof January. The moment that the news of Napoleon'sdaring movement reached them, the Congress pub¬lished a proclamation in these words:—“By breakingthe convention which established him in Elba, Bona¬parte destroys the only legal title on which his exis¬tence depended. By appearing again in France, withprojects of confusion and disorder, he has deprivedhimself of the protection of the law, and manifestedto the universe, that there can neither be peace nortrace with him. The powers consequently declarethat Napoleon Bonaparte has placed himself withoutthe pale of civil and social relations, and that, as anenemy and disturber of the tranquillity of the world,he has rendered himself liable to public vengeance.”All Europe once more prepared for war, and scarcelywas Napoleon seated on his throne, before he heardthat in all likelihood he must do his best to defend itagainst 300,000 Austrians, 225,000 Russians, 236,000Prussians, 150,000 men from the minor states of Ger¬many, 50,000 from the Netherlands, and 50,000English under Wellington, in all 1,011,000 armedmen.Napoleon, conscious of the stake for which heplayed, and of the odds against him, was indefatigable.When he landed at Cannes, the army numbered175,000 men ; the cavalry had been greatly reduced;and the effects of tbe campaigns of the three preced¬ing years, was visible in the deficiency of militarystores and arms, but especially of artillery. By in-16THE LIFE OF THEcredible exertions, and notwithstanding the pressureof innumerable cares and anxieties, the Emperor, be¬fore the end of May, had 375,000 men in arms—in¬cluding an imperial guard of 40,000 chosen veterans,a large and brilliant cavalry force, and a numerousand well-appointed train of artillery.He left Paris on the evening of the 11th of June ;exclaiming, as he entered his carriage, “I go to mea¬sure myself against Wellington.” On the 14th, atBeaumont, he assembled and reviewed that part ofthe army which had been prepared to act under hisown orders; it consisted of 25,000 of the imperialguard, 25,000 cavalry in admirable condition, 350pieces of artillery, and veteran infantry enough toswell the host to 130,000 men. Marshal Ney com¬manded the centre; Jerome Bonaparte the left; Mar¬shal Grouchy the right.Blucher's Prussians numbered 100,000 men. TheDuke of Wellington’s varied and motley armyamounted in all to 75,000, of whom only 35,000 wereEnglish—and these chiefly young soldiers, for theflower of the Peninsular army had been sent toAmerica. The King’s German Legion, however,8.000 strong, were brave and excellent soldiers; andthere were 5,000 Brunswickers, worthy followers oftheir gallant Duke. The Hanoverians amounted to15.000 ; the Nassau troops, Dutch and Belgian, underthe Prince of Orange, were nearly 17,000 men ; butmuch dependence could not be placed on the Belgianpart of the army. The first division occupied Enghien,Brain-le-Comte, and Nivelles, communicating witlithe Prussian right at Charleroi. The second, underLord Hill, was cantoned in Halle, Oudevard, andGrammont—with most of the cavalry. The reserve,under Picton, were at Brussels and Ghent. Welling¬ton chose Quatre Bras as the point at which, shouldBonaparte advance on that side, he was to be heldin check till the allied troops were concentrated.DUKE OF WELLINGTON.17That junction was ably and certainly accomplished,though all Napoleon’s skill in manoeuvring and ac¬tivity of movement were used to prevent it.On the morning of Thursday the 15th, the Frenchdrove in the Prussian outposts on the west bank ofthe Sambre, and at length assaulted Charleroi: thepurpose of Napoleon was now apparent—to crushBlucher before he could concentrate his own army,before Wellington could aid hirn, and then fall uponBrussels. In spite, however, of a severe loss, Ziethenmaintained his ground so long at Charleroi, that thealarm spread along the whole Prussian line: he thenfell back in an orderly manner upon a position be¬tween Ligny and Amand; where Blucher, at thehead of his whole army, excepting Bulow’s division,which had not yet come from Liege,—awaited Na¬poleon’s attack. Bonaparte had thus failed in his at¬tempt to beat the Prussian divisions in detail; it re ¬mained to be seen whether the second part of his plan,that of wholly separating Blucher from Wellington’sarmy, would succeed.At half-past one o’clock of the same day, a Prus¬sian officer came to the Duke of Wellington’s quartersat Brussels, with the intelligence of the French move¬ments. By two o’clock the Duke issued orders to allhis cantonments, for the divisions to break up, and ef¬fect a junction on the left at Quatre Bras : there theBritish general intended his whole force to assemble,by eleven o’clock of the following night, the 16th.That night a ball which was to have been given atthe Duchess of Richmond's hotel in Brussels, was in¬tended to be put off; but as on reflection it seemedexpedient that the inhabitants should be as little aspossible acquainted with the progress of events, atthe Duke of Wellington’s request it proceeded—him¬self enjoining the general officers to appear in theball-room, but each to quit the apartment quietly atten o’clock, and to join his respective division en route.18THE LIFE OF TU ESoon after, the younger officers were summoned fromthe dance, for the troops were already mustering.The Duke retired at twelve, and left the town at sixnext morning for Quatre Bras.When Napoleon came up from Charleroi, aboutnoon on the 16th, he was at first uncertain whetherto make his main attack on Blacker at Ligny, or onthe English at Quatre Bras. But the Anglo-Belgianarmy was not yet concentrated, while the Prussian,with the exception of one division, was : he thereforeresolved to devote his personal attention to the latter.The main strength of his army, accordingly, was di¬rected against Blacker at three in the afternoon;whilst the subordinate, yet formidable attack onWellington’s position, was begun by Ney with 45,000men.The battle raged as fiercely on every other point,and night found the English, after a severe and bloodyday, in possession of the field. Several regimentswere reduced to skeletons, and many brave officershad fallen; among others, the Duke of Brunswickwas shot soon after the commencement of the battle;and many other regretted names appeared in the listof the slain.With wTorse fortune, Blucher fought as severe abattle at Ligny: with 80,000 men, he had to en¬counter 90,000, led by Napoleon. Though the Prus¬sians behaved with great bravery, the villages ofAmand and Ligny were repeatedly taken and retakenduring the day; and a body of French cavalry pene¬trated to the very heart of the position.In the course of the day, the brave old Prussiangenera], in heading a cavalry charge, had his horseshot under him, and in the tumultuous hurry of thefight, was ridden over, unseen both by his own men andtlie French. But Bulow had not yet arrived, and thesuccessive charges of fresh divisions of the enemy,DUKE OF WELLINGTON#19compelled the Prussians to retire. Blucher retreatedon tbe river Dyle, towards Wavre.The Duke of Wellington did nob hear of the Prus¬sians’ retreat till seven o’clock on the morning of the17th ; for an aide-de-camp whom Blucher had sent toacquaint him of it, was killed. A. patrole, however,sent out to Sombref at daylight, ascertained the stateof matters; they found out how little real successhad been gained over the Prussians by tho French,for Blucher had fallen back most leisurely, and hisrear-guard did not evacuate Bry till three in themorning. The Duke had already collected his troopsat Quatre Bras, and was prepared to have maintainedthat position ; but the retrograde movement of thePrussians rendered it necessary for him to adopt acorresponding movement. He therefore retired byGenappe upon Waterloo, about ten o’clock on themorning of the 17th. His march was conducted soleisurely, and in such admirable order, that the enemydid not venture to molest it; but a large body ofhorse followed the cavalry of the rear-guard underLord Uxbridge. Wellington retired to Waterloo inconfidence of being joined there by Blucher before thedecisive contest began.Having finished all his arrangements on the even¬ing of the 17th, the Duke of Wellington rode acrossthe country to Blucher, to inform him that he hadthus far acted on a plan previously fixed at Bryr—ex¬pressing at the same time his hope that he wouldbe next day supported by two Prussian battalions.Blucher replied, that after leaving a single corpsto keep Grouchy at bay, he would himself marchto AVaterloo with the rest of his army. Welling¬ton returned to the scene of action, expecting thatBlucher would be able to come up in time. Butso terrible was the state of the cross roads betweenWavre and Mont St. Jean, and such torrents of rainfell, that though Bluchcr began his march, he found20THE LIFE OF THEit impossible to come up until long after the timeanticipated.Between eleven and twelve the battle opened witha cannonade from the French line, instantly followedby a fierce attack under Jerome, on the advanced postof Hougomont, but this having failed, Napoleon di ¬rected a formidable attack both of infantry and cav¬alry upon the left centre. All the firmness and brav¬ery of the British and their commander were hererequired. During the scene of tumult and carnage,indeed, Weliington was everywhere, on account of theposition of the armies, and the nature of the ground,exposing his person with a necessary but painfulfreedom. There was scarcely a square which he didnot visit in person, encouraging the men by his pre¬sence, and stimulating the officers by his directions.Many of his short phrases addressed to his troopshad a talismanic effect. As he stood before MontSt. Jean, in the middle of the high road, severalguns were pointed at him, distinguished as he wasby bis suite, and the movements of his staff whowent and came with orders. The balls repeatedlystruck, on the right hand of the road near him.“ That’s good practice,” said the Duke to one of hisstaff’; “ I think they fire better than they did inSpain.” Biding up to the 95th when in front of theline, and threatened with a formidable charge of cav¬alry, he said, “Stand fast, 95th—we must not bebeat—what will they say in England?” On anotheroccasion, when brave men were falling every minute,he said with cool confidence, as if he had beenmerely a spectator, “ Never mind, we’ll win thisbattle yet.” Another regiment, in close combat,was addressed by him in a common sporting phrase :“ Hard pounding this, gentlemen ; let’s see whovvill pound longest.’’—All who heard him issueorders, received fresh confidence from his readiness,decision, and cool composure. His staff' fell man byDUKE or ■WELLINGTON.21man beside him, yet seemed in their own agony onlyto regard his safety. Sir William De Lancy fell fromhis horse,’struck by a spent ball;—he said to thosewho came to assist him, “ Leave me to die ; attendto the Duke.” Sir Alexander Gordon received hismortal wound while expostulating with his Generalon the personal danger to which he exposed himself.Lieutenant Colonel Canning, and many others, diedwith Wellington’s name upon their expiring lips.As yet, however, it did not seem certain whetherall these sacrifices had not been made in vain. TheFrench, though repulsed on every point, perseveredin incessant attacks, and the British squares, fromthe constant firing and assaults, presented a dimin¬ished and less formidable appearance. One generalofficer stated that his brigade had lost one-third ofits numbers, and that the survivors were so exhaustedwith fatigue, that a brief respite, however short,seemed absolutely necessary. “ Tell him,’’ said theDuke, “ what he proposes is impossible. He, and I,and every Englishman in the field, must die on thespot which we now occupy.”—“ It is enough,” repliedthe general; “ I, and every man under my command,are determined to share his fate.”—“A friend of ours,”says Sir W. Scott, “had the courage to ask the Dukeof Wellington, whether in that conjuncture he lookedoften to the woods from which the Prussians wereexpected to issue? ‘No,’ was the answer, ‘ I lookedoftener at my watch than at any thing else. I knewif my troops could maintain their position till night,that I must be joined by Blucher before morning, andwe would not have left Bonaparte an army next day.‘ But,’ continued he, ‘I own I was glad as one hour ofdaylight slipped away after another, and our positionwas still maintained.’—‘And if,’ continued the querist,‘ by misfortune the position had been carried ?’—‘Wehad the wood behind us to retreat into.’—‘And if thewood also had been forced ?’—‘ No, no, they could22THE LIFE OF THEnever have so beaten us, we could have made goodthe wood against them.’ ” This brief but character¬istic conversation has heen adduced to show that eventhough the English had sustained a temporary dis¬aster, still the plan of the campaign had been so regu¬lated, that Napoleon could only have had a brief andtemporary glimpse of success.Still the battle was far from being decided. Napo¬leon was desperate, and resolved to sacrifice his lastchance of retreat before the Prussians came up;though his cavalry was already wrecked, and ho hadlost, besides, 15,000 men. There was no time to lose,for the Prussian guns were beginning to thunder onhis flank, to the great joy of Wellington, who said,“There goes old Blucher at lastand by the light ofthe setting sun his forces were seen issuing from thewood.Napoleon had still 15,000 men of his own faithfulGuard, who, placed during the action either on or be¬hind La Belle Alliance, had hardly drawn a trigger.Led by Marshal Ney, they advanced dauntlessly, ral¬lying as they went such of the broken cavalry andinfantry as yet maintained the conflict. The Britishline, by the successes on the right wing, had graduallyall pushed forward, and was now changed from aconvex to a concave position, so that the artilleryraked the French columns as they came upon thecauseway ; and so accurately were they directed, thatthe heads of the columns were constantly cut off, andthey seemed to make no progress. Borne on howeverby the impetuousity of those in the rear, they atlength reached the plain, and attained the summit ofthe ridge where the British lay concealed. At thisimportant time, the Duke of Wellington, who hadplaced himself immediately behind the Guards, whenhe thought them near enough, gave the order, “ Up,Guards, and at them.” They Sprung to their feet, asif hy magic, poured in on the French a well-aimedDUKE Of WELLINGTON.23fire, which made them stagger; a second volley putthem in a panic; and the Duke, galloping closeup in their rear, called out, “Forward, Guards!”They advanced with three cheers, and rushed downthe hill upon the French with pointed bayonets ; butbefore they got within twenty yards, the hitherto un¬vanquished veteran Guards of France—the “ SacredBand” of their army—turned from the shock and fled.Ney fought sword in hand on foot; his clothes werepierced through with balls, and he was the last toquit the struggle. Napoleon’s only hope was gone.His army of yesterday, was now a splendid wreck.His own words best describe it—“It wasa total rout.”Soon after, two large bodies of British cavalry wereseen rapidly advancing on either flank, and the Prus¬sians were closing up his rear; now was the time, hadhis spirit dictated it, to die a warrior’s death ; but hesaid to Bertrand, who remained at his side, the fatalwords, “All is over—it is time to save ourselves!"With ten or twelve attendants, he put spurs to hishorse and fled, leaving to their fate the gallant armywhich had that day shed their blood for him withsuch profusion.The British lost 15,000 men killed and wounded,100 officers were slain, and 500 wounded, many ofthem mortally ; of the officers who fell many werehighly distinguished. The Duke of Wellington wasrepeatedly in great danger—only himself, and one in¬dividual of his numerous staflf, escaped unwounded inhorse or person. The French loss cannot be calcu¬lated ; but it was immense; for besides what theylost in the battle, many were cut down in the retreat—and of 75,000 men, the half were never again col¬lected in arms.By the victory of this memorable day, the Dukeof Wellington finished his military career of unequalledglory. Boundless joy—in spite of the heavy numberof the brave men who had fallen—was felt at home.24 LIFE OF THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON.The Duke’s despatches, dated the 19th, from the fieldof Waterloo, reached London late on the night of the21st June. Next day the thanks of Parliament, anda resolution to erect a public monument to the Dukeof V\ ellington and the army, were carried by acclama¬tion. Parliament also voted thanks to Field MarshalBlucher and the Prussian army. The rewrards ofmerit were extended to every rank and individual ofthe British army present on the 18th ; each regimentwas to bear the word Waterloo on its colours; all theprivates w'ere to be borne upon the muster-rolls andpay lists of their respective corps as Waterloo men,and each one of them was to reckon that day’s workas two years’ service.We cannot resist quoting a remarkable sayingof Wellington’s which showed how much he feltthis heavy loss. “Believe me,” said he, “except¬ing a battle lost, nothing can be half so melancholy asa battle won. The bravery of my troops has hithertosaved me from that greater evil; but to win even sucha battle as this of Waterloo, at the expense of the livesof so many gallant friends, could only be termed aheavy misfortune, were it not for its important resultsto the public benefit.”The Duke has since been called to serve his coun¬try as a statesman, and has held the highest place inthe councils of the realm. While, however, he ishappily spared to benefit that empire by his wisdom,which he has protected by his valour, it would not beexpedient, even if space admitted, to enter on a re¬view of his political carreer. His name is associatedwith some of the greatest legislative and social changesthat this generation has witnessed, .and some of themare yet too recent to be discussed with impartiality.