THE LAST and GREATl E R M O N,|j' the Rev Dr W I L L I A M D o d D, Prea¬ched in the Chapel of New^ate-frifon, lateIMinifter at Btoomsbcrry-Chapcl in Lon,do , tohis Convift Brethren on Friday the 6th ofVfutify 17-77, 3 ^10rt t*ime before he fuffered.jDm Vfal. li. 3, I acknowledge my faults, and my finisever before me.l ithhis Letter of Addrefs to the Rev, Mr VILETTE,■Ordinary in /Vc-zog^fr-prilbn, in order for publica¬tion,ikewife hisSolemn Declaration wroteby hirafelf for his laft Speech, and! given in a Letter at the place off Execution, June 27 1777.Printed in Nidderfs-ijjynd. 1777-(Price One-penny.)Dr WILLIAM DODD’s ADDRESSTo the Rev% D/lr V f l e t t e, Ordinary of Newgate,Reverend Sir,"! r | 'i He following Addrefs owes its prefent publicI appearance to you. I read it to you after itwas compofed, and you thought it proper toI I be delivered, as was intended. You heard it delive¬red, and are pleafed to think that its publicationwill.be ufeful.—To a poor and abject worm, likemyfelf, this is afufficient inducement to that publi¬cation ; and I heartily pray unto God. that, in yourhands, it mayfrequantly and effectually adm'inifterto the inftruction and comfort of the milefable !”J I am, dear Sir,With my fincereft thanks for your humaneAnd friendly attention,Your truly forrowful.And much afflidted brother inChrift,Friday, 7*«e 6. 1777-3WILLIAM DODD;Dr D 0 t) D'i /aft S E B. M O N, &r, jPlalm li, 3. lacimirt'dge my faults, and my f.n is evenbeftre me.CONSIDERING ri)j peculiar circ urftances amjfrtuation, I cannot think inyfelf juftified, if I delnot deliver to you, in fincere Chriftian love.Ioniaof my ferious thoughts on our prefent awful ftate- !In the fixteentli chapter of the Acts of the Apofties,you read a memorable ftbry refpdfting Paul and Silasiwho for preaching the gofpel, were call by the Magi-Urates into pfifon,. verfe 23.—and, after having recenvf.^,tnahy ftripes, . were committed to the jailory witha,hrift , charge to keep them fafely. Accordingly het hryil them into the inner prifon, and made their feetfait .Jn the Rocks. At midnight Paul and Si Us, fuppor-redbytheteftimony ofagood cotifcience, prayed, andfang praifes to God, and the prifoners heard them;and fuddenly there was a great earthquake, fo that thefoundations of the prifon were Ihaken; and immedi¬ately all the doors were opened,and every one’s chainswere loofed. Thekeeper of the prifon awaking out rdideep, and feeing the prifon doors were open, in thegreared diftrefs '(as might well be imagined) drew?his fword, and would have killed himfelf,-fuppofingthat theprifoners had been fled. . But Paul cried witha loud voice. Do thyfelf no harm, for we are adhere*The keeper catliag for a light, and iiodipg his prifo*n?rs thus freed from their bonds by the Imperceptibleagency of divine power, was in efiflibly convincedthat thefe men were not offenders againft the law,.but martyrs to the truth; he fprang in therefore,andcame.tremhling, and fell down before Paul and Silas^,anotnovightthero out, and faid, Bias, What ivtust EDO TO BE SAVED?What mujl I do to be faved? is the important quef-©n> which it becomes every human being to uudyfrom the firfl hour of reafon to the lad; but which wCj,A 2mar diligence and interfenefs of meditation. Ha^ it not: ibeen forgo?tensor neglefred by us.we had never appea-|red in this place. A little time for leiolltch'cn andjiamelKhtientis yet allowed us by the mercy of thedinv,|Of this iittie time letho particle be-loll. Let us' fiHijour refnt.inir?g life v/ith all the datics whidb our pre-f?nt condb ion allows us to praciife. Let iis mtiiteone earneii effort for falvaiion!—dnj oh! heaveniyFather,who d difeft not the death of a fmaer, grantthat this effort may not be in vain !To teach others wliat tfcy mufi do tv be faved, has• long been my employment and prcfefuoh. Yoh feewith what confnfion and didionour I now ftand before! \ ou—no more in the pulpit of inffraclion, but cfri .this humble feat with yourleli'es. Yoh are Oct ?*>■conftder me now as a man amhbfif; d to forni tileiimannehs or direct the confcience^ and fpeakiugAvitL•wbe authority of a paftorto his flock—I am here guilt y,like yourfelves, of a capital offence ; and fentenceo^like yoarielveS, to public and ;hnr»efur death. My■ profeffion, which has given me ftrenger convictions■ of my duty than moft of you can be fvtppdfe'd'to have* attained, and hasextended my views to Lite confequetirces of wickednefs farther than ymir obfcwation -isIkely to have'.reached, has Iqaded my fin with pccu-i i ar aggravations; and I entreat you to join your prayr rrs with mine, that my borrow may be proportionate>1 to my guilt!I am now, like you, enquiring uukjt mt/Ji I do to be• Ci, red? and ftand here to communicate to yon v/te;hat enquiry fuggefls. He r me with ’attention, my .Yllow prironers; and in your melancholy hours oi’•etirement, confider well what 1 offer to you from■t he fincerity of my good will, and from the decpeft>t tonvii tion of a penitent heart.4-Salvation is promifed to us Ciiriftians on the termsif faith, obedience, and repentenee. 1 fliall thereforjtad'qdvour to’ fhew iiow, in the fliort interval hetweethis moment and death, we maj enert faitk, performobedience, and excercil’e repenten 'ce, in a manner which?our heavenly Father may, in liis infinite mercy, vouchrtfafe to accept.,i. Faith is the foundation of all Chrifticn virtue,. It is that without which it is iinpojpble to pteafe GodlI ihall therefore confider, tir't, how Faith is to bdparticularly exerted by us in our prefent ttate.Faith is a full and undoubtiug contklence in thddeclar;ations made by God in the holy fcriptures;. ,1fincere reception of the dodtrines taught by our biei-fed Sayipur, with a firm alfurance that ne died totake away the fins of the world, and that we have,each of us, a part in the boundiefs benefits of the uni*verfal facrifice. To xtixs faith we mufthave recourl«at all times, but particularly if we find ourfelvd’tempted fn defpair. If thoughts arife in our minds;which fuggdt that we have finned beyond the hope oipardon, and that therefore it is vain to leek for recon- fciliation by repentence; we mult remember how Goc ,willeththat every man fliould be laved, and that thoi« .who obey his call, however late, will not be rejected;If we are tempted to think that the injuries we havt ,done are unrepaired,^nd therefore repentence is vaiuJet us remember, that the reparation which is impel. fihle is not required; that’fincerely to will is to do, ?ithe ligtit of Him to whom all hearts are open; and ih»what is dificient in our endeavours is luppiied by thi ;merits of Him who died to redeem vis,-.Yet let uslikewife be.careful left an erroneous opi ?nion of the all-fufficiency of our Saviour’s merit. lulus into careleflhels and fecurity. His merit's are idoeed all-fulficient! but he has pre-feribed the terrdjon which they are to operate. He died to lave finner s|but tp'fave only, thole finners that repent.' bettlwho denied him was forgiven,bnt he obtained his p4||don by weeping bitterly. They who have lived in pepetu-al regularity of duty, and are free from any^ro!or vifible tranfgrelfions, are yet bxstunprofitable fc)K 1 }\wants: What then are us, whofe crimes are haftening;us to the grave before our rime ? Let us work withfear and trembling, but ftill let us endeavour to 'work"out our fafaathn. Let us hope with out presumption; ,let us fear without defperation; and let our faith ani¬mate us to that which we were to confider.Secondly^ “ Sincere Obedience to the law's of God.’*Our obedience, for the ihort time yet remaining, isreftrained to a narrow circle. Thole duties, which, are called focial and relative,are for the moft part outi of our power. We can contribute very little to thegeneral happiueis of mankind, while onthofewhora.indred andfriendlhlphave allied to us,we haVebroughtdifgrace and forrow. We ca« only benefit the publicby an example of contrition, and fortify our friendsagainft temptation, by warning and admonition.The obedience left us now to pra&ife is, “■ fub-mifflon to the will of God, and calm acquiefcence inhis wildom and his juftice.’ We piuft not- allow our-felves to repine at thofe miferies which have follow¬ed our offences, but fuffer, with filent humility and'refigned patience, the puniihment which we deferve;remembering that according to the Apoftle’s decifion,no praife is due to them tyho bear with patience to bebuffeted for their faults.When we confider the wickednefs of our pad lives,and the danger of having been fummoned to the finaljudgment without preparation, we lhall, I hope, gra¬dually rife fo much above the grofs conceptions of hu¬man nature, as to return thanks to God for what oncefeemedthe moft dreadful of all evils—our detectionand convi&ion!—We fnrink back, by immediate and9 inftinclivete rror,-frpm the public eye, turned as it isupon us with indignation and contempt. Imprifon-ment is affli&ive, and ignominious death is fearful 1But let us compare our condition with that which oura&ions might reafonably have incurred. The rob.ber might died in the act of violence, by lawful re¬finance. The man of fraud might have funk into thp(. 8 )grave, while he was enjoying the gain of artifice .•— |inii whsfs then had been our hope ? We have now lei-1nre For thought; we have opportunities of inllructi- |oh; and whatever we fufFer from offended laws, may jhvet reconcile ourfelves to God, who, if we fmcerely |feek him, will alTuredly be found..But how are we to feek the Lord? By the way which |he him-feif hath appointed ; by humble, fervent, and ifrequent prayer. Some hours of worfiiip are appointed ftus; let us duly obferve them Sofne alliftance ro our Idevotion is fupplied ;.‘ let us thankfully accept it. But Iflet u? not reft in formality aud prefeription: let us call |upon God night and 'day. When, in the review of the |times which we have pafl, any offence arifes to our |ithoughts, let us humbly implore fbrgivenefs ; and for |thofe faults (and many they are and muft be) which iwe cannot recoiled!, let us ibiicit mercy in general pe*titions. But it muft be a conftant care, that we pray, i,not merely with our lips; but that when we lament ?<>nr fins, \ve are really humbled dn'felf-ahborance; iand that. When we call for mercy,vveraife our ihoughts | *to hope and trull in thegoodneis of God, and the ine-. ? •tits of our biefied Saviour, Jefos ChriftThe reception 6f th? hofy 'facranienttXo' wtueb. wre - Llliail b,e called, in the molt ioletnn manner, perpaps ii | |few hours before we die, is the high eft alt of chrife , rtian worfliip. At that awuful moment it will become ius to drop for ever all worldly thoughts ; to fix our j vhopes folely upon Chrift whofc death is reprefented ; ^and to confider ourfelvesasno longer conneiited with 1 ,mortality. And. poffibly, it may pleafe God to affordus fome confolation, feme lecret intimations of accep¬tance and forgivenefs. But thefe radiations of fa- -your are not always felt by the fincereft penitents, f*Toth« greater part of thofe whom angels ftand ready jto receive, nothing is granted in this world beyond ra- ijjtional hopeand with/tope, founded on prowife w.eJ jmay well be fatifiedBut fuch promifes of falvation are made only to .jthe penitent. It is requiiite then that we Ocnfider,( 9 )Thirdly, “ How Repentance is ro be exerclv^d.^Repentance, in the. gentral ftate of CHriftian life ! islireli a lorrow for fin as produces a change of manners;and ail amendment of life It is that difpofirion. ofmi-rid, which he who fto/e, flealsno more; by which the| wicked man turneth away from hts loickednefs, a>id doth'hat which is lawful and right, j* r.d to the man thus'ormcd, it is exprefsly promifed, thar/x? foall fave hisWoul alive: Of this repentance the proof ; are vilibie,|nd the reality certain, always to the penitent, and‘omtnoniy to the church withwhichhe communicates;■ecaufe the jlate of the mind is difcovered bythe out-'ard aftiens But of the repentance which ourifiditiop requjres and admits, no focb evidence canpear; for to us many crimes and many virtues areiade, impofiib'e by confinement; arid flic fhcrtnefs* •the time which is before ns, glyfes- little power,;n to ourfelyes,'’of diftinguHhipg the efFedts of rer-ir from thofe of conyidtion ,• •bf dccidinn;, whetherir prefeht ibrf ow. for fin, proceeds from abh'o ranee‘ofilt, or dread of punifhm' tr; wiiether 'tire viohreeir inordinate paffions’be totally fubdued by theof God, or only cruflied and reitrained by the■porary force of pr.-fent calamityJur repentance isjike that of other fitiners on theirith-btu j but with {3.1; advantage^ that our ..dan-.■ is not greater, and ouf ftrets-'t!) is more. OnfiltieS ard not impaired by wc rkviefs f‘body. Wene to the great work not withered by pains, muitded by the fumes of dlieafe' hut with- minds'caj-'a-?of cOjitimied attention,und with b‘od es, ofwi icu, ne’ed have ho care!. We may therefore befref'dr.-rge thisfremendiovu dutyyianJ tetterjudjg^.bfc>in■ i performances!>f the efficacy of a de^th-bfcd rt pentfihee many have:■ ufed - fut .we have^no leifurd1 frir ccn.tfoverfy.in your minds thisdecifion, ‘ Repentance is a'ge of the heart, of an effi’t to a gtkid'dtfpofition,'™ihJtl«t ifjffingc is made, repcnteuce'js complete.God will confider thrt Ufa is amended if he had fparetiit. Repentance in the fight of men, even of the pe ¬nitent, is not known but by its fruits: bnt our crea¬tor fees the fruit blofFom, or the feed. He knowithoTe refolutions which are fixed,' thofe converliomwhich would be permanent; and will receive themwho are qualified by holy deilres for works of righteloulueis, without exacting from them thofe outwanjduties which the fliortneis of their lives hinderedthem from performing.Notlnng therefore remains, but that we apply witj S)afi o iripeed, and with all our ftrength, to redlifyoq Bdefires, and purify our thoughts; that we fet Go 4b fore us, in all his goodnefs and terrors; that'w nconiider him as the Father and the Judge of all tl| tearth; as a Father, defireous to fave ; as a Judg* 'pwho cannot pardon unrepented iniquity : that v ifall down before him felf-condemned, and excite . sroir hearts an intenfe deteliation of rhofe crimes,whi* t;have provoked him; with vehement andfteady i? (ifolutions, that if li e*were granted us, it ihouid J. {pent hereafter in the practice of our dut. : that v tpray the Giver of to ftrengthetr and impntitefe holy thoughts, and to accept our repentant a,though late, and, in its beginnings,' violent; that * nimprove every good motion hvdilligent prayer ; a ;havingdsc/areJ and confirmed our faith by the hcommunion, we deliver ourfelyes into his handsafirm liope, that he who created and redeemed usj ;fnot fufit-r ns to peri h. A fThe condition, without which forgivenefs isU} he obtained, is that we forgive others. Ther r,^1 A-^ys a danger led men, freih from a trial in wliif£ has been lofl:, flioald remember with refentnf fand malignity the profecutor, the witneffes oe';judges. It is indeed fcarccly poflible, that wid ,the prejudices of an intereft fo weighty, and fo sCting, the couvift fhould think otherwife, than 'he has been treated, in fonie part of the prop( II )'ith unneceflary feverity. In this opinion he is per-aps fingqlar, and, there ore, 'probably niifta&eri. Buthtte is no time,for dilquifition: we mufttry to Hud;he lltortefi: way to peaee. It is eafier to forgive than'oreafon right. He that has been injuriouiiy or uu-tecefi’arly harafied,,has one opportunity more of pro-ring his fmcerity, by forgiving the wrong and pray¬ing for his enemy^It is thednty ofa penitent to repair, fo far as he has:he power, the injury which he has done, What vve:an do, is commonly nothing more than to leave the'^rld an example of contrition. On the d, eadful day,hen thefentence of the iaw lias full orce, lome will•e found to have affeftcd a Ihamtleis bravery, or neg¬ligent intrepidity. Such js not the proper behaviour>r a convi&ed criminal. To rejoice in tortures isTe privilege of a martyr; to meet death with intre- „aid icy is tire right only of innocence, if in any humanJ>eing innocence could be found, Ofhim, whole liles ihortened by his crimes, ; he left duties are Inuni-ity and fell abalemei t. We owe to God fine're•epentance; vve owe to man the appearance of repep-tvc»-r-We ought not jo piopa-aie an opinion, thatwho lived m wickedneia can die with courage,f. the fmco ity or gaiety with which feme men have■titled a life of guilt, were unfeigned, they c> n beinputed only to ignorance or ftupidity, or, wl at isnore horrid,,to voluntary intoxication: if they w erertiricial and hypocritical, they were acts of-decepti*m,the ulelels and upprohtabie crimes of pride un-nortiliwl and obllinacy urhutdued.There is. yet aru^ther crijne poiiible, and, as thereSfeafon to- believe, fometimes c< ininitted in,the kf'iioment, on the margin,of eternity,—Meuhave diedilh adieadtatl denial crimes, of which it is veryliflicult to liippm'e iohem.iruipcent By wiiat eeguvo-atmn or reicrve tliey may pave reconciled their ecn-lienees tofailbood, if their.conlcitrces were at Hiopfuited, it is impolubie ’to 'Know, But if 'th.;thought, that when th- y were to die, they paid the:■legal forfeit, and that the world had no farther deraamupon them ; that therefore they might, by keepinjtheir own fecrets, try to leave behiixl them, a difpij tjtalft reputation; and that the falfhood was harmlef Itbecaufe none were injured ; they bad very little coti »fidered the nature of fociety. One of the principii iparts of national felicity aril'es from a wile and impat \ttial adminiltration of jallice. . i very man repolo 'vupon the tribunals of his country, the ftabiiity of pol it#it laon, and the lerenity ofoiife He therefore wfii i ]unjuftly expofes the courts of judicature to fafpicior *either of partiality or error, not only does an injup tto thole who difpence the laws, but diminilhes tin !)pub ic confidence in the laws themfelves, and lhake tthe foundation of public tranquility.For my own part, 1 confeis, with cteepeft com «■pnnclion, 'the crime which has brought me to thj tplace ; an 1 admit the juffice of my fentence, ' whil iI am finking under its foveriry. And I earn Illy es) ithort you, my fellow prifonei s, to acknowledge th »offences which have been already proved ; and to b« pqneatli to our country that coniMcnce in public jufitet tii ..without which there can be neititer peace nor fafet; cAs few men fuffer for their firit oifences, andconvicts aretconfcious of more crimes than have bee ■brought wuthin judicial cognizance, it is neceflary j .enq (ir& ho%v far confeflion ought to be extendfi i,Peace of mind, or defire of inftrudtionfniay fometinj bdemand that to the minifter, whofe counfel is reqipred, a long courfe of evil life fbould be difeovere^but of this every man muft determine for bimfelf 'llthe public, every man, before he departs from lifeJn.'obliged to confeis rhofe a As which have brought.may bringunjuit fufpidon upon others ; and to conv|l<inch i’lfonnation as nia.y enable thofe \vhohave l|fiFered Vofes to obtain rrifitutlon.Whatever gtxid remains in cur power we muft clyearly pei form. We mull prevent, to the utmef !( I? )ir power, all the evil confequences of our crimes.fe mull forgive all who have injured us We muft,by fervency of prayer and conffancy in meditation, en¬deavour to reprels all wordiy paflions, and generatetn onr minds that love of goodness, and hatred of fin,yhich may fit us for the lociety of heavenly minds,\nd, finally, we mull commend and entruft our louiso h i m, who died for the fins of men ; with earneilvilhes and humble hopes, that he will admit us with|he labourers who entered the vine}ardat the lajlWr, and affoeiate us with the thief whom he pardo-jted on the crofs !To this great end, you will not refufe t<» unite withie, on bended knees, and with humbled hearts, inei vent prayer to the thione of grace ! MaytheFatherlit Mercy hear our fuppUcations, and have compaffionijpon us !!’ “ O Almighty Lord God, the righteous J u d g eif all the earth, who in thy providential juflice doftlequently inflict fevere vengeance upon finners in'■:s life, that thou mayeft, by their fad examples,edtually deter others trem committing the like he¬ms offences; and that they themfelves, truly repen-f of their faults, may efcape the condemnation of:—look down in mercy npon us, thy forrdiufuifer-w/ts, whom thou haft fuifered to become the unhap-objetfts of offended juftice in thisworld !“ Give us a thorough fend'e of all thofe evil thou|/r, words&nd ivSrts, which have fo provoked thy pa-;Stuce, that thou baftbeen pleafed to permit this pub-I and fhameful judgement to fall upon us ; and grant| iuch a. portion of grace and godly fincerity,. thatje may heartily confefs, and unfeignedly repent oflery breach of thofe moft ho/y laws and ordinances,Aich jf a man do, he Jball live in them.‘k lV-t no root of bittemefs and malice, no habituald deadly fin, either f omtffiw or sommiffion, remainbifturbed in our hearts ! But enable us to make ourIbentance univerfal, wfth-out the leal! flattering ori4 ; ,«leceitful refervcjthat fo we may clear our confciencesbefore we dole oar eyes,** And novy thay thou haft brought us within theview of our long home, and made us fenfible, thatthe time of our diflblution draweth near, endue us,we hnmbjy*pray thee, O gracious Father, with .fuch |Chriftian fortitude that neither the terrors of thy pre- tfent difpenfations, nor the remembrance of our for--merfins, may have power to fink our fpirits into a :defpondency of thy everlafting mercies in the ado¬rable Son of thy lone,“ Wean our thoughts and affe&^ons, good Lord, |from all the vain and deiufive enjoyments of this ttranfttory world; that we may not only with patientrefignation fubmit to the appointed ftroke of dead', f.btk that our faith ^nd hope may be fo elevated, that (vve may conceive a longing delire to be diflblved from ithefe our earthly tabernacles, and to be with Ghrift, »which is far better than all the happineis we can wiih |,for befides!“ And in a due fenfe of our extraordinary want of :forgivenefs at thy hands,and of our utter unworthinefs' fof the very 1 e-alt of all thy favoiirs—of the meanelb tcrumbs which fall from dty table. Oh! blcfl’ed LordJefus ! make us fo truly and nniverfaH.y charitab!e,tiist vin .an undilfembling compliance W!th thy own awful ,command, and moft endearing example, we may |8.both freely forgive and cordially pray for our mol ./■inveterate enemies, perfecutors, and flandcrers i Forg'nr jthem, O Lord, we bileech thee; tmui their heartj Land till them v/ith thy love.“ Tims, may we humbly truft, oar. forrowfuprayers and tears will be acceptable in thy light jrThus lhall we be. qualified, through Chrift, to ex.change this difmal bodily confinement, (and theli ;uneaiy fetters) far the glorious liberty of the fonsjj ^God. And thus lhall our legal doom upon earth |fa|changed into a comfortable declaration of mercy »|,the hi&hcft heavens; and all through-thy moft prec {Jous ar d all-fufficient merits,O blefled Saviour of-man*kind,—who with the Father, and the Holy Ghoft, li¬ved and reigneft ever, Oue Cod, world without end.jimen.Dr, Dodd's laftfoIcmnVzci.hKKTiotx.TO the words of dying men regard has alwaysbeen paid, I am brought hither to fuffer deathI in act of fraud, which Iconfefs myfelf guilty withte, fuch as my former date of life naturally pro¬'s, and I hope with fuch furrow as he, to whomheart is known, will not difregard. I repentI have violated the laws, by which peace urtdidence are eftabliflied among men; 1 repent thatce attempted to injure my fellow creatures,- andDent that I have brought difgrace upon my order,difcredit upon religion; but my offences again!? •are without name or number, and can admit oh-eneral confeffion and a general repentance,—lit. Almighty God, for the fake of Jefus Chrift,my repentance, however late, however iniper-, may not be in vain.he little good that now remains in my power, israrn others againft thofe temptations by which fave always finned againft conviction ; my principlesave never been fhaken ; 1 have always conudered thehriftian religion as a revelation from God; and itsivine Author as the Saviour of the world but theiws of God, though never difowned by me, haveften been forgotten, I was led aftray from religiousri&nefs by the delufion of (hew, and the delights ofiluptuoufuefs, I never knew or attended to theills of frugality or the needful minutenefs of a pain-|l economy. Vanity and pleafure, into which I(■ '6 )• ^ iRequired expence, difproporrjonate a ray\ Wigteme, . ex-pence broug-it diftrejfs dpon me, anddili- |trill, importonate diifireis, urged,:   ' '".. ..    . tditemparaty^lfraud.For this fraud I am to die; and I die. declaring in’ Hthe moft fedemn mann r, that however i havedevi-*ja fed from my own precepts, IhaVe tai”-ht others, to *Lthe'heft of raj knowledge, and wifh all imcerity, tluj'ffltrue way to eternal happinefs, ,My life, fos tc-me refew unhappy years, pall, has been dreadfully errone- wous, butmymiuiftry lias oeen always fincerc. 1 haveCjOnftantly believed, a ml now leave the weritVIpraply avovying jny cpuyk.hoq;, that there is^m oth.papie under heavenvHy yytwcli, we.oari be laved, 'Ifilftq.n'y the name of the Lord jelus; and I entreat ail.B•vyko are4iere.tojpiu with me in my tail petition; that^Wfor thfcfake of the Lord jelus jChrift my fins may be |fpr-give«, aryl my foal received into his .tyerbduitg.]bingd^jn. g; . ,,, ' W.ILLIAJl DcDD.IJ' r' l N IS... N. ti. It t'i jv'ofid-aad exgeticd, that\all ranks < of men, in whufc bands thin£wfu r Scrnidii may come hitos will-takrcar:, and (tef-r by the fatal Rocky • oiwhich, this great man has f^lit itpoa.*for; through all England, MieMm-as not jfmore popular Clergyman in Ids day, arimone • nvlM bds left many yaluable'books of.his pavn dvr fangs, for tbfgo%i‘^t'fuccesMittg genermons. Wknefs Dodd up9fflPearfi, / .. /