TKEMojl excellent end delightfulHISTORY’ OFFORTUNATUS;SETTING FOETHI His Birth, Life, Travels, and Adventures, iamoft Parts of the World.ALSO,How the Lady FORTUNE appeared unto him, andgave him a Rich Purfe, that never want*cd money $ with the great Richeshe got thereby.Lilewtte,iGiving an Account how (in his Travels) he gotfrom the Soldan a Wilhing-hat, by which,with putting it on his Head, he could con¬vey himfelf immediately into what Place h$pleafed.> To •which ere added, theLIVES AND ADVENTURESOFAMPEDO & ANDOLOCIA,HIS TWO SONS.Gttrgt J%ntt Prmttr, Sfr, HmtsrtkC ^ OF SCOTLAND^)*VTHEHISTORYOFFORTH NAT US.CKA.P. i.Of Fortunalus' birlh) parentage^ Qc.IN the ifle of Cyprus there is a fiately pity,called Famagofta, where once lived oneTheodorus, defcended of noble parents, wholeft him with a great pftate ; fcut being broughtup to nothing but pieafures, he loon walledthe greateft part of his riches, to the greatgrief of all his relations, who thinking to ihakehim leave thefe courfes, determined to matchhim to a rich merchant’s daughter in the cityof Nicovia, named Gratiana, a difcreet woman,whcfe prudence and good humour might be a4Cleans of bunging bun to live fobefly and fru¬gally ; and propofing it to him, with many per-iiiafive reafonj and arguments how much itwould be for his good, he refolved to vifit hersand after a few months courtftip they weremarried in a fplendid manner, moft of thepriccipal gentlemen of either city being at theWedding, and fo they lived together in contentand great felicity for the fpace of one year,in which time they had a fon, whom theynamed Fortunatus; at whofe chriftening an oldwoman, taken to be a prophetefs, came in anduttered thefe words: —This child is fortune’s darling, he fhall fhareUnfought, thofcriches which he will prepare;To travel he his thoughts full foon will bend,Tho’ crofs’d in fome, yet all fliall happy end.This was noted of many, but more particu¬larly when the fuccefs anfwered her prediction.As he grew up, his father, not to be reftrahnedby the tears and bitreaties of his wife, began tofollow his former oad courfes, infomuch that >he fquandered away alt his patrimony, fo thatthey fell into extreme poverty- Fortwnatus be- ithen eightecB years of age, and feeing nutWrays to have their wants relieved, begged leaveof bi> parents to quit them of the charge b<put them to by fuffering him to travel, no:tdoubting but he cOuld fbift for bimfelf Hi dfather eafily confected, shut his mother not withihoat groat relu£Unce; fo with many tender emin5br&ces ttidjr ptrted* Fortunatus having the woilJto ramble in, made to the fea ; ani at the nexthaven found a great many armed men landed,under the command cf Balwin, Earl of Flan«ders, who had put on fhore to refrelh him : hetook courage, and kneeling before the Earl*offered him his fervice, and that he would bevery fubferviant to his command*. The Earlperceiving him a very promifing youth, andafter enquiry into the circumHances of his pa¬rentage and former life, he made him his chieffervant: in which ftation he behaved himfelf fawell, that he gained this great lord’s entire af-feflion, and failed with him in the galley to theifamous city of Venice.Fortunatus knowing the language of thatcountry, he had orders from his lord to buyifeveral coftly jewels, garments of velvet, andicther rich merchandize, which wonderfully pleaf-■ ed him. And at his return home, he was foon. after married to the Duke of Cleves’ daughter,.ito whom he was contradled before bis going toithe war, a fair and beautiful lady. At his wed-. ding was many valiant lords and knights, mount¬ed on ftately horfes, to tilt and tourney beforejthe noble ladies there prefent. After they hadfinifiied their triumphs and mortal games, the• Duke of Cleves, the bride and bridegroom, a-; greed to let their fervants try their manhood atiftveral paftinies for two rich jewel*, valued at.1 three hundred crowns, which made them all6flriye one agalnfl ar.9f.Vr. to;da fVir bill; fcthe duke cf Burgundy’s fervant v-on ope, anI'orlunatus the other, to the great difp^eafurelcf the other fetvants. Upon this they delirethe duke’s-fervant to challenge Fortuaatps to fighthim before all the ladies, v/ho (hculd have theml-Otb ; which challenge was focn accepted, Endthey encountered each other very bnikiy, tiliat laft Fortunatus hpi'fed the duke’s fervant c3his horfe at his fpear’s length. Whereupon hewon the viftory and obtained the jewels^ whicl^cncredcd the. envy of the other fervants, but .greatly rejoiced the Earl. , •■;*mcng the Earl's ferv-nts there was a craftyold fellow called Peter, who cofifalted vith theiirdf ho-.v to remove this favourite, which they 1t fief ted by this firatagem : Peter, who pretend- ,ed great friendfAtp to, Fdrtunatus, we>; t to hinaone day as he was reaping, and told him thattheir lord, having conceived a great jealeufhis’chamberlain', .(of.wltcm Fortunatus was onehad ordered the furgeon to come next mornito have them gek. Which when Fcrfcnhtuheard he was rorich fur,prized, an ! therefoidefired this old f-Uow fPeter) to. telT K:n>'hohe might convey him felt with fpeed out of thc’ y undifcoycred. Peter obfervlng this, . tolhim he was loath to part with To goqd 2 eem-y. iiion but if hi* would go, he could hot g?tout or' the city till the morrirg, a? the gateswere ‘ fbut. Fcrtusatns' defired Peter by allmeans to conceal his departure, and then in much/7"troubia of mind he departed takiog his journeyon horieback.CHAP. II.Of the travels of Fortunatus, &c.FORTUNATU3 getting away in a manneraforefaid, travelled with all fpeed to Calais,where he took (hioping for England, and com¬ing to-London, he fell into company with twoCyprus merchant?, «ith whom h« rictoufly fpenta'l his money, and being in a poor condition,roil cf fuccour, he conveyed himfclf over the•lea to France, where he arrived in Picardy, andrefolved to go for Paris. When paffing througha wood, and being at a lofs which way to go; as. he gazed about, he faw a beautiful lady crofixng. his way, to whom he ipade up, faying, I befeechthee, Iweet virgin, for the love of God, to affiftme, that I may come cut of the wood, for thefe, three days have I travelled without meat. Thendesianded ihe of him what countryman he was.. Pie anf.^ered, L am of the ifle of Cyprus, and, poverty hath conilrained me to wander to feekmy fortune. She fail, fear not, Fortunatus, Ithe goddefs fortune ; and by the influence ofthe great difpofer of all things, are given me fix! things to fuch as ftac'd in need thereof, which&is wifclcsn, riches, flrength, health, beauty, andlong life : and therefore chufe one quickly, andbe prudent, for J>’ u raay «ot chufe againr For-fur.atus made no linger {lay, but faid, then Xde'fire riches. With that fhe gave him a purfe,and hid, receive the. f?;tue of me, and in whatcountry, thou art in, as often as then (halt putthy hard therein, thou {halt dya*7 forth tenpieces of gold of the fame nation’s coin j and thispurfe .{hail J-etain its virtue as long as thou livefij,and thy own children during their Jives. ’- XT' -v r^ ^ - tv. •• .. • . i . :k 9 | * K : "-.'.nil. ,Eortunatus returned her a tboufaftd'thinks,"to which fhe'repiffed,' return thanks to ti e giver©rail good gifts, for I am but the handed difVrt-bute them as “he diredls, and of thV riche?, be¬llow it on the poor and needy. Then fettihghim out of the wood, (lie vahHhed froth'fU.light: which made him greatly wonder, andfeafedy believe but it was a vifion, and nothing,of reality in it, till coming to an inn he tried 'heexperiment, and found it otherwife ; but ’ htsgarments Were fo poor, that the hoft, till befaWhis money, fcrupled to let Irim have any viflnalsor drink ; but feeing him draw out gold fo frft,he began to be fweet upon him, made Mmfire, and carried him is.to the bcil room, order¬ing his daughter to attend him, where he {laidall night. In the morning he enquired of hishoft if he could help him to fotne horfes; whotold him that there was a merchant very latelyarrived with three very {lately ones out of Bar-iiary, for which tfie Duke Rodolphus, who livedhard by in a ftatdy caftle, had afTcred 50s crowns,but it was refufed. Upon tfiis he Of fired thdhoft to fend for the merchant, and to bring bish«rfes with him; which he accordingly Jid^though within himfeif he laughed heartily, fee¬ing him fo meanly clad, and knowing they wereof great price; yet contrary to his exp-cb-tion,he bought the two the Eari had bid for, andgave 400 crowns for them : then the hdfl fup-pofed him to be forae nobleman is dtguife, ef-pecially as be bought coitly tables and otherfurniture, and enquired for two fervants. TheDuke hearing that Fortunatns had bought thehorfes out of his hand, was very angry, ar-d fentto the inn-keeper to kno"? who it was. Thehoft told the mffienger fae was a flranger^ inplain habit, newly come, which he at firfl didnot think capable of purchafing an afs. Where¬upon the Earl fent to apprehend him, fufpe&inghim to have committed fome robbery, and not-withftanding all the excufes he could make, fent; him to prifon, and was compelled to deliver the! horfes up to him, pay 300 crowns as a fine fet! n{>on him, and obliged to depart his territories,1 with an oath never to difeover what pali'ei be¬lt ween them.loCHAP. ill.S! .   .......Hex* ■'.Fortuaatns t rat'd led to the isle ofCyprus, xviih his ’marriage, S>c.“SjpOR TUN A TI/S r^joicej th^.t be was fo wellefcaped.rand was, not bereft of,bis preciouspurje ; hi then thought of. travelling to his owncouotnS In his journey he palTeo through manyilrange cities, vlierein he viewed the greateftcuric hiies. Having nevs’ purchafed feveral horfesand rich apparel, with feverai fervants to attendhim, he at lad came to Venice, apd from thencerailed, to the if!t. of Cyprus. Upon his arrival<yt Farnapoila, he fcur»d his father and mother.'dead, through..forrow for their great poverty,which much grieved him; yet, that'he might'not be jivajuing in, what lay in his power, he 'built a ffately monument over their grave, witha fuitahle epitaph.Fomihatus thinking how to fettle in his owncountry, built him a noble heufe at Famagoda,fo curioufly adorned that the like v/as not in theifland. He theTt made fplendid entertainmentsfor the king and queen, who highly favouredhim, and wondered whence he Ihould be mafterof (ur'great a treafure ; but he kept that as afecret. At laff the king advifed him to marry,n order to keep up a family that was fo ancient,II&and promifed him his choice of the thaee daugh¬ters of the Lord Neniva; upon which, havingfeen and difeomfed with them, he made choiceof the younged, whole name was CaffanJra.The Ccur,t:fs and Earl lilced well of the match,only they objcfted ng-ainft him as he had no lands,which Fortunatus underftandir.g, he purchafeda lordlhip to fettle on her a jointure. I he wed¬ding was k'pt fourteen days with great fnicn-dctir * the king, C|tieen, nobles, and all of anynote on the iiland being enterutiaed. And.thefirtl year of this happy marriage his- beautifulCaffundra brought him af»n, whom he namedAmpe.Jo ; and the next year another, whom henamed Andoloeia.CHAP. IV.Hob) Fvrtunatus iccr bent to travel artldiuxvinch kc did, in Egypt, Persia, andIndia, £>e.FORTUM A f US having lived twelve yearsw:th his loving wife, now began to thinkct travelling into other countries where he hadrot been, which h;s dear Caflandra much op-poied. But being fully rclclved to travel, ap¬pealed her, promiiing that he would return :na year; and fo leaving her, be odes his e.iate.fen thotifaivd crowns in ready msney.—Ih a (hiphe had htred for his own ufe be departed, re-ifolvlng to turn merchant as well as traveller.*> ■ ' .* , v - » t . 1 V' : " ' ' ’ • • ;i The fitft port he touched at was Alexandria,in Egypt, where, as thecuflctn was, he immedi¬ately went to make a prefcjit to the ciolda®,which he did ip fuch rich jewels, that that mightyprince admired it, and therefore emertaiced himvery nobly, fending him in requital very richmerchandize, and left him at liberty to traffic inthe good things of Egypt, above the Hberty grant¬ed to other merchants ; fb that having riebjyfreighted his ffiip, he fent it by the msfter toCyprus, o'-nngped to the ufe of his wife and chil¬dren, refclved with ten fe^ants to. travel overland ; an 1 fo taking his leave of the Soldian, whogave hi in letters of fate condudi direfted to di¬vers nrinces, he determined to paft over thedefarts of Arabia and Perfiaj and fo to India,taking Tartary in hk way, where he had a viewof the great Cham’s court at Cathia. From thencehe travelled through a v.d large fore si that leadsfo India, wiicr* he flew a monftrous tyger, thathi! ueuroyed many hundreds of people, aa-lleft the way jtlmoft unfrequented by paflengers,t^fcich was fcattered with the fkulis ana bonesof thofe that had been devoured. This forefltook Up two (Jays and two nights' travel; andfo paffing through many countries, he came toIn .ia, where the empsrtsr Preflon John reigned,who, of all thofe countries, was the only Cbrifri tiaa prince; that country being converted to the! Chriftran faith by St Thomvy the apoftle. Hei he hai under him iixty-two kings, and is lord ofj thirty iflands, beiides a vaft country on the con¬tinent. And though moi't ftrangers are forbidto enter th~ Emperor’s palace without his leave.he had never feeh; for the walls were platedwith fine filver, whereon were engraved the’ftories of knights, and battle's of former emper¬ors. Some rooms were hung with panther^(kins, catting a fragrant fmell *. the pillars thatfupported the roof ^rtre cedar, overlaid witUgold, and embefled with precious fiones. For-tunatus having feen all he couM, obtained leaveof the emperor to depart with thirty camels ladenwith the richeft goods of the country, and hav¬ing appointed his Ibip-mafler to meet him atAlexandria, he fet oat for thence.; ' *  ; -(The Soldian having notice of his arrival. uiEgypt, font divers of his officers to meet and^welcome him in his name j whom Fortunatusprefentsd with jewels, odours, and fpices, aod-the Soldian with many rarities. So unloading"his camels, he (hipped all his goods, and remem¬bering hii promife to his beloved Cafiandra, heordered them to weigh anchor, refolving to fail jbut the Soldian ileflrei him to partake of a ban-quet'before he wept, after which he the wed himhis curiofities ia his jewel-houft, which were fuch.as fcarcely to be found in the world. But whilibI'oft.unatm was admiring their ricjhcefs, the Sol¬dian unlocked a cabinet of gold, and pulled outof it an old hat, (to all appearance) faying, thisis $ jewel I efteem above all the others, for (con¬tinued he) k has that (ecret virtue in it, given bya great magician, long fince dead, that put itupon your head, and wifia to be where you will,you (hail be immediately carried thitHer inviSbly.Fortuiiatus, from that moment, thought withinhimfelf, if he had this to join with.his purfe, theywould’ be the two greater advantages in the .world ; and faid to the Soltl'un, Cnee this hathath fuch virtue, fure it m'tfft be very heavy on .his head that weareth it. Then faiu the Soldian,it is no heavier than another ha:; whereuponhe gave it into his hands, and bid him put it onhis head, alking him if k felt otherwise. Thenfaid Fortunatus, I did not think it had been folight, nor fuppofed you would have let it on myhead* with that ha wiihtd aimfelf in his ihip,and immediately he flew out of the window, asfwift as lightning, and, to the amazement ot thetailors, alighted on the deck, without any harm sthey then ftt all the fail they could, and, r.ot-withflandirg they were purfuec, fafeiy reachedthe ifle of Cyprus, with his fhip richly .laden, tothe great joy of Caffirndra and his foils.JSFortunates having lived long in pleafure and plenty,is two fons being grown to men’s maturity, he fell;ck, and calling them to him, bellowed his riches onhem revealed to them ihe virtue of his purie, andow it would tail only for th-ir live*; he alfo toldhem the virtue of his withir.g hat; fo defirirg themo Jive lovingly together, and not to part with thefeewel*, or ever dtfeover the virtues of them, but toife them by turns ; and in a molt devout manner, re-ttHimending his foul unto the hands of his maker, he;ave up the ghold. Soon after CalTindra, through ex¬ceeding grief, filing lick of a fever, died, and bothwere buried in a flat-sly tony? he had cauted to be buntin his life time, in thp chtncel of the new d urea hehad erected: having left bountifully to the poor, and torother charhacile ufss.CHAP. V.JIozv /Jndolocla, the youngest son, got ihepurse from Ampcdo, his brother, §c\FORTUNATUS and his dear confort were nofooner laid in their tomb, but Andololu, titeyouogell fen, agreed with his elder brother to fill fourcoffeis with gold out of the pirle; that he Ihouldhave the wi ning hat and all the villble etlat'e, and heonly the purfe to bear him company in travels.So feaing forward be came to the court of Paris, ittFrancs, where lie appeared fo fple.rdid in his equi¬page, and fo extra-vgant in his expenses, that liewas wondered at by all, who took him for fomsflrar.ge prince, and rather b/ reaton or his ccurige ;for in the jails that were made ior entertainment, hex6i»,harfej divers of the nobility. He /bun after leftthe city and travelled for Spain, viewing all tte raritiesof that country, and at length arrived at Madrid *there he found them preparing for a war with Portu¬gal, and he refoived to take this opportunity, raifedan hundred men, and proffered the king his fervice.Fhe wars ending he failed for England, where inlike manner he alliiled the king in his war with theScots. And one day as the king was entertainingh;in at dinner, he was fb fmitren in love with the fair |piiocefs Agrtppma, the king’s daughter, that he'forgot* ■tc eat, and leaded h:s eyis oely on her, jnfomuch that 'gtm notice was taking af it. Hs iik^wife tatytafa-*' !fervants, fo that rharveTfec' how he having novifible eftate, couij iiie at futh a rate, and weredefirous to know wbat^ttrei he had to carry on hhtgrandeur at fuch a height.This, by the advicf" of the king and cjueen,'thepHucefs underook to diftcver, as fhc perceived hewas -deepiy in love v ith he ; and in a little timeflit ford him fuch 'kindnefe that he was admitted to behi private with- her in thee ha ether, a favour whichrone before had received: ah j there being nope butthey* he thought it was now trrne to declare his paflion,whi?h he did in fuch obJi 'ing terms that fte ieercedto he pleafed with it, only faying, your izvifr.ingexpences 1 fear will bring us both, to poverty /h< old1 marry with you. He told her that could rot be,for his treafure derfp". 'tie was iPexhaui ■' andcould not be fpent, fptnd v hat he v. ouni. Let me.knotv, faid the princefs. from whence you l ave thefcgreat riches? Ah, faid he, it was my dying father’scommand not to difeover it to any; yet lo dearlydo I love you that I can deny you nothing. Lo thisHie obliged herfeif, and he drunk with love, thereuponfliewed her.his pwfe. tcld heir hew it war come by»and all the feeiets of it. ••letting b r fee it o p> ..imentially, by pulling out fevtral feaudfuis of gold v hicii lieprefemed her with, telling he could do ic all day long,and every day as Jong 4s he ! ved. 1 ois made heriewar ‘ly rejoice, and i or.. tiSte plotted how toget it, which (he eff-.tf d under the <-okiur of a prcnnfehe (hould lie with.her be; ht :.ge if he wouldfwejr to ^e true to ! ;r when fhf luc. rendered up. tohim her vtigin ireafure tlut whiilt fi e expefbed, with* multitude of joy, tlie fruition of fccr delicate body,i8.'fhe dontr'nreJ with her woman to give him drugs in hiswine ; and fo drinking him Juflily he fell fail afleep.Then turning ifide his coat, flie took his purfe and{'aliened another of the fame iikenefs to his girdle, butdifferent in virtue; fo that waking in rhe morning andfinding himfeif in a chair, he began to wonder whathad befallen him. But juit as he remembered theaffignation with Agrippina, in came her woman, whotold him in a forrowfu! tone, that the fair p.-incelsgoing to bed an I keeping awake :n expeflation of him,and he deceiving her, fire was rifen very angry. Thisnude him very blank and foe rowful that he had loft.an opportunity which he could not reafonably txpeflagain. And fo riling he went to his own heufie, little'dreaming he had loft his treahre.By this time Agrippina had (hewn the purfe to theking and queer, and told them the virtue of it —And now they refeived to put a trick upon Andolocia,'and accordingly ’he king lent to tell him he deligned■to come with the quern and princes to dine with himthat day. The meiTenger had no fooner delivered hismefiage and was departed, but he called his ftewa/dan ! bid him immediately provide provilion ; but he,to d him, in the two laft feafts his money was all ex-:pend'd, and therefore he muft have more. Where¬upon Andolocia put !i!s hand readily into his purfe,but found nothing ; when looking wifhfuliy ©n’t, heperceived it was changed, This made him look blank,not knowing for a time what ►> fi<y or do. He knewthe virtue of it was fo.rare that thofe who had it wouldnever part with it by Stir means. And fo pretendinghis brother was dead, he turned off his fervants, foidhis houfeho'd furniture, and privately getting o.e ihrp-board, hq failed for Cyprus, telling his brother Ampedot\the l?mentaWa news of the lofs cf the purfe, whichgreatly grieved hin!t and made hi-m b!ame Andolociafor his folly ar.d the breach of l is father's lift com¬mands. Vet he relieved his Vents plentifully, but heas :bad!y rewarded him, for having got what treafurehe cautd, he defied him to iend him hjs vithiog hat,but he i loog time refufed it, faying, that ftould be hislaft referve when a!i l-is money was (pent, and bedoubted not but when fome gt'eat prince would come toknow of :,5 virtue, to g°t ten thouftnd pounds forir. and if he let him have it,!>e would loofe’t fooliftlyas, he had done the purfe. To this he f,id nothing,hip. ope day defring to fee it, when haying it in v.shand, lie clapped it cn-bis head, wifhing sirifelf atVenice, an 1 he was immediately there ; leaving nisbrother to repent his folly in the lift of his hat, as hahad done his in the lofs of his purfe. Being in thisrich city, he fc-apd out feverai Jews who were rich,jewellers, an I cheapening divers of great value, grafptnethem fafl in his hand, ar.d widling himfe'f in England,he was immediately carried .through the air, to theirgreat admiration, who concluded him to be no iefs thanthe devil.CHAP. VI.fliw Jndolocia carried away vlgrihfmawith the purse to Ireland, rVc.BEING in England, he difrui^cd bimfe'f in thehabit of an Italian leercliant, and going to court,enquired for the princtfs Acrmpina : and'being broughtbefore her, he laid out his jewels, fo proifered herthem for Tale, and in a little time they agreed. Now jithat which he looked for was the purfe, out of which |he Tuppofcd /he would take the money, for he fufpefted |/he had it, and accordingly it fucceeded; for going Uto a coffer and taking it out, fibc filtened it to her ffgirdle: when he having his wifhir.g hat on, clafpcd her pher in his arms, and wilhing himfelf in a wild defart,away they flew together over fea and land, till theycame to a vaft viidernefs in Ireland ; there he fet herdown, faint and ain>oft breath’cfs, under a tree on whichgrew very curious apples to look to Agrippina cartingher ey^s upon tltem, the ir.trcated him to pull fome ofthem to quench her third:, for fhc was aimoll ready to (perlth w-ith drought. Yet he ftill loving her though i/he lisd played him fuch a flippery trick, and dappedunadvifedly his cap on her head to keep off the fcorch-ing fun, as knowing the knew not the virtue af it, lbciiu blng up fell to gathering. In the mean while fhefat penfive and fad, and wilhing to God fhe was outof that defolate place, and in her father’s court, ail ona fudden, contrary to her expeflitisn, fhe was carriedaway, leaving Anlolocta to fret at his folly, and vexhimfelf more than ever; fo that wandering up anddown, faint and weary, at Ieng;h fat down by a brookand fell to eating his apples, when immediately a griev¬ous pain feiled his head, fo that he fappofed them in*fedhaus, and began to fear his life ; but on the contt arya^great pair of goat's horns /prung out of his forehead,and then the pain ceafed. This made, him wonder athimfdf, and ftand amazed j but as he was fad and pen-five, an old hermit came to him, and feeing him affrangcr, iud in that condition, invited him to his cave,and gate him fuch poor refrelhment as he had, whichconfified of nuts, wild apples, and roots, and his '•'Vinkproceeded from a plealaiu biook hard by ; but Andulccums mare felicitous abort his horns than any thing:lfe; and entreated the hermi* if he knew any way to:ure hint, and he would give him ten crown*, whichwas all the tnoney he had left; for Agiij pina hadtarried away the jewels as Well as the hat: but thoughie prerrifed to cure him, yet he refufed hit money,elling him he had retired from the world and thetankics of it, and money to him was ufelels j but goingbroad, he brought home G* fair apples, two of whichAcdolocia had no fooner eaten but his horns dropt of,Ivhich made him greatly rejoice.—So the good •Idman bidding him give glory to God, led him out of the(bred, and at the edge of it they parted.Andoiocia having feme of the hornify'd apples, andlikewife four of the contrary quality, began to meditatefevenge on Agrippina, and fo coming with all fpeed toEngland, he got an opportunity to prefent them to her,s fruit grown in the holy garden of Jerufalem, toetlore decayed beauty and health for feveral years,sake the aged look young, and other wonder*. Bathe bad no fooner eat two of them, and finding adrowfinels, lying down to fleep, and dreamed (he wa«urned into a goat; but awaking (he found a ArangeHtevation, and going to her glafs and feeing her horns,iffnghted, (he ftartl/d and feriekei out, whereupon heradies came about her and were as much affrighted athe light «* (He ; but a grave matron who had been hernrfe, defired them to be filest to prevent the difgrace.Hat might follow, tiU phyficlan* were confulted whofekill might take them away. She kept clofe in herdumber, and the old woman was fent to divers doctorsnit none of them would undertake it, on tbe penaltyhe would irapofe on th«9* which was two thoufandcrowns if (he revealed the lady’s name, and they d'jjnot cure her. But as file «^as coming back again vejpcnfire, Andolocia in the garb of a phyfician met !.eand t«!d her by her fadnefs. and coming from fuch,doAor’s houfe, he gut (Ted (lie had feme dear friend [idanger of life, at fome other great diftrefs, which r!fne would accept of his fervice as a phyfician, tv/culd not doubt, with the LUffing cf God, to cuher. The old woman believing him, greatly rejoiefthat flie had found bin: fo opportunely; and tellirhim the whole matter,, which he very well knew bfore, conveyed him to the princefs’chamber privateat a hack door, where he found her lying on her bevery much troubled : but (he was comforted when 1,told her he was come to cure her, fo he began imake application, and gave her fo little of the appiamong other drugs that they only wafted by degree!then telling her he wasted fome coftly drugs to n:aithem come off by the roots, and fo (he (houid be mot]beautiful than ever. She arofe and went to her coffeitin the mean while, feurchin^about the room he fourshis v.iffiihg hat carefefiy thrown under the bed, for ftkpew not the virtue ot it, but fuapofed fome fpirit hafconveyed her backward and forward before. By thtime (he called him to receive his money, and lie dra^»ing her toward the window that he might, as 1pretended, the better difeern it, drew his fcat fro)ufider his coat, clapped it on his head, griped her ihis arms, and away he flew with her, purfe and all. Ithis airy voyage (he was carried to Flanders, wheiprefentiog himfelf to her in his true (hape, and withftern countenance reproached her with treachery aninconftancy, (he fell on her knees and begged his pa:don. Whereupon taking puy of her, and at her requehe put her into a nunnery, giving the abbefs two hutdred crowns for her admittance, promififig to fetch h«23as Toon as he ctmld find a remedy to t ftkc off her horns,and fo departed,for Cyprus with his hat and purfe, thefight *f which greatly rejoiced Ampedo, to whom hetold all the pafhge cf his travels : and fo extolled thebeauty of Agrippina, that the Prince cf Cyprus, ena¬moured on bare report, prevailed with the kinc; 1 isfather to fend an empaffy to defire her fti tnarr.We,On this AndoJocia was delired to free her from dienunnery, which he did, taking off her horns and carr -■ ing her through the air to London; and fo wi h anoble train of lords and ladies they failed for Cyprus,: where fhe ihas royally received and fplendidly married.; This made many of the nobles envy Andclpcia,efpecially the earls of Armundalia and Limoufe vowedhis death, who hadfo much eciipied their honour ; andfo fetting on him and his fix men as be paffed one dayV*4I'through t wood, they and their hundred attendant! tafter a long fight killed his men, and took him prifoner,for he had not with him hit wishing hat, and callinghim into a loathforee dungeon, fet him in the ftockcand loaded him with irons to make him confefs whencehe had thofe raft riche!; which, through torment, hedifeovered, and gave them his purfe, and they hatingproved the experiment thought themfelves not fafewh>’(i he was alive, becaufe they knew he couldthrough the air, fo might elcape, they offered the gaolermoney to difpatch him, but he refuting, the earl ofArtnandaha ilrangied him as he fat in the Hocks.In the mean time while Ampedo was ineonfblatlefor the lofs of his brother, having in vain offered greatrewards for his difeovery, at length fuppoling himdead, burnt his wifhing hat, and through grief died.Soon after the earls were apprehended and examined(who confeffed the fadt in all its circumHancM, forwhich they were both broken on the wheel.FINIS.'• x .V '