'll HEAVENLY RESTFOR A - *WEARY SOUL:OR., THEPILGRIM at his Journey’s End,BEINGhe L-ft LEG AC T of a FATHER to hisCHILDREN, when on his Death-Bed.CONTAININGi The Children’s Duty to God, their Motherand Themfelves. A, COPY' of VER>E3 written by theFather, a tittle before his Death.III. Some GODLT MEDITATIOMS.. The Father’? iaR GIFT to his Children.Iffl f/ THE REVEREND MR. JOH* BUNYAN.I :   j|rj pleafant to read, profitable to pro.Rife, and of excel.it life to all'forts of People who defire 1 o live a godlyiSjifc, in this prefent evil world.3 T 5 R LING:!1 Printed .anf- Sold by C. RandalL.i 6,m a soul.1. The Father’s admonition to his Children before his Dewherein he informs them, Firjl Of their duty to Gea|Secondly, To their Mothers: And, Thirdly, Of whthe> owe to each other.<T Children I mull now leave you I a:going to a better place: my glafs ismod run, l have fought a good fight, and foilfmifhed my ccurfc, and henceforth therelaid up for me a crown of glory. In my youtlI was wild ana ungodly, as meft were ; I fpecmy time idly, and never regarded what I dielb I could but pleuft and fabsfy my appetite,have fince my converfion, (thanks be to Godtaken hoc ! to my ways, and lived as upright!as I could for, if t did any wrong it was ;gain ft. my wiii: I have lived according to tfrules of the holy fetipmres as much as in nrlay l loved the worft of my enemies but haed tfoir w-cked ways who call; faife afperiiorupon me, but I owe no man ill, heartily, foigiving all who have been mv enemies, as I 1To be forgiven thro’ Chrift J-.fus my dear LordMy dear Children, let me entreat you to be atmcniihcd by my words, an.i take my exhortatioas a legacy ; 1 having (you wellknowj very lide to leave you.i'irft; Let me put you in mind cf your dut:lo God.Secondly, To your Mother : And,thirdly, to oneanothe?. tiut,Firft. Of your duty to God.‘ Draw nigh to Gu I, and he \Till draw nigljto you/ J mes vi 8. This very exhortauo’^iven by James aa Apv?ftle of our Lor i an•^v3iavionr Jefus Chrift is enough to induce you*ithout any other to draw nigh to God, and; will draw nigh to you, if you fear God. he!ill defend you, if you are willing to return fromtur evil ways, he will receive you : He defiresved. it is your own fault. And indeed, theixt comprehends a great deal of comfort, itings falvation to wretched firmer, ,it fpeaksall men : So much by way of exhortation.Let me now haften to rhe hift particular,,; rich was to lay before you, your duty toorl; Fear God. ami keep his command-i;:nts for this is the whole duty of man/ch vii 13. There you fee your duty; fearoffend is your duty, tho’ comprehended fc|i>rt. Be careful to ferve him, fearful to of-Id him, diligent to keep 1 is laws and will-tig to obey his commands ; abide all bis cor-iflions with prtience murmur at none of hissys, live honeftiy, love all men; lie not,tear not cheat not, nor take the Lord’s namei|vain: covet not that which is another man’s j» e the Lord with your whole heart; fear him ;tifl praife feis name ; mortify your lulls and un-y pafiions; refill the devil and he will flyrm you: Suffer any thing for your relgion,» l death itfelf; and in all things fubmit to the11 of God. I fhalt conclude this head with.:fe precepts &c.j[. Fear to do any thing againft that God.Mem you love, and you will not love to da auyijiinfl that God whom you fear.2. Let your prayers be as frequent as yourj Us, and your thankfgivings as your buffings.3« In the morning, think what you have tdo, for which afk God‘s b!effing ; and, at niglthink of what you have done that is fmful fiwhich aik him forgivenefs.4 Take an exatt account of your life, be «ffraid to look upon the fcore, but to exereife hTo dei'pair, becaufe a man is finful, is to 1worfe, becaufe he hath been bad.5. Confider the ihortnefsof your life, and tcettainty of judgment for the wicked: and fo yiwill have but one day to repent of before you d)6 Do injury to no one: for by injuring otheytm teach them to injure you.7. Innocence will be the beft guard. Ke wdares to be wicked fometimes for his advantaglwill always be fo if his intereft requires it.And fo much for the firft head : 1 come ntin the fecond place, to tell you of the duty yowe to your mother.4 Honour your father and motherthe fifth commandment; A wife fonhis father's infttudlion,’ Prov xiii 1.g&in Prov. vi. 26. 4 My fon, keeptheir's commandments and forfakc not theof thy mother’. Here you may fee that duto your parents, is a command of God. Solmon, the wifefl man that ever was, gives y<this chara&er of a w ife fon ("that is a dutiful fothe hearkens to his father’s inftruftions, ana wjlingly obeys.Confiaer then my fon, on what I have falhonour your mother when I am in my gravI give you this charge in the fight of God,Chrift Jefus our Lord.’ &c.heart!Audithy ;‘ 5Thirdly and laflly, I con>e to the duty weowe to one another.iVU'chi'dren, take warning by the vicious ha¬bits of other men, and you will do well: whilllothers drive one «gaiuft another, do you drive:o do good for one another ; and whiift othe»3ire at variance and revije each ether, do youiray for and comfort one another.To conclude, Mind what I have fai 1 and layit up in your hearts and implore God s bleflingpon it. I mud leave you, hut I hope we fhailime day meet face to face, in the ptefence of|he Almighty, where pieafures flow, and joys.I'1,bide for evermore.1    il. A COP Y' of VERSES that he had made u-pon Hirnfelf, not long before his death.' i Forbear, fond man and weep no more, *tis vain.When heav n decrees, nis folly to complain :( This wordly mad is fubjeft to decay,: And death and nature all things mud obey :drhe biufhing rote fhines with the morning fun,bfuft then looks gay, now withers and is gone ;■ (rardon my tins. Almighty God I pray !fporgive them ail and bear them hence away ;ilThen my provoking foul fhall up vardsify,i .And leave, with joy, this world of vanity.If— ■    ———.t III. Some Godly MEDITATIONS.(jlJWTO creature under heaven, can afford my||j\ foul any comfort, only them, O Lordtiithe Phydcian of fouls; thou bringeft man nigLilfumo death, and redoreft him unto life agaia:»thereby mewing his "skasls, and thy powcr !6therefore all love ar-l praife be to thee, O Lord IO God. I extol thy name; and tho’ I'm ; Ifinful creature. I will not cede to give the* Ithanks to the ntmofl < f my firength : l ^ iii de Idare thy juftice and mercy, ami whilft l live,will declare thy name.As for man. he is but dull and vanilhes: hi:life is but a {'pan, and full of mifery.Oh heavenly Father, let me not forget mine £ovrn frailty; let me confider what i ant, ancJremeinbev what I Hull be; then fnall l not for¬get to leave myfelf, and long after thee.My fins O Lord, are betore thy face ; l canturn no way but they pmfue me : I entreat theeto pardon them. Confider my necefTrty moflimighty God, and deliver me for thy Son’s fake, ifAlthough my offences are more in numberthan ti e hairs of my head, yet. Lord fhew mer¬cy, and forgive them. I know, though my fmswere as foarlet. )et thou canit make them white:as fnow: therefore. O Lord, to thee be gloryfor evermore.Truly. Lord, I fee no caufe why I fhould longto ahh e in this life. If J was arrived to iuch per¬fection as the apoftle Paul was, 1 fhould delire€arneiliy(£s he end ) to be with Chrift.O God ■ btfeerh thee, to give me fuch thingsas are Lr thy glory, and the good of them wholove thee and walk uprightly.O my God, t ptay thee, mortify the corrup¬tions of my heart, clear.fe thou me from fecretfaults, and fend thy good Spirit to w rite thy law*tipor* my heartThy ways, G Lord, us the ways of rtgh».eoufnefs, and a-1 thy commandments are truthind hoiinefs: as for thy wiii, it is altogether up-;ight t true and Uoiy art thou O Lord of holts.O God of all trurh, my panting foul longslifter thee : thou art -the fountain of a 1 blel'ied-tefs; I am thine, fave thou me from trefpailingigainh thee.O !v my fms are many, but do not furpafs thenjdwer and glory of thy grace j and as for mineijiiqhities, thou (hale purge them away. Iaank thee, therefore O thou Lord of heavenid earth for forgiving love and mercy inne face of Jefus Chrift, my only Lord and Sa-iipur.0 my God arife and deliver me from this vale•wickedtiefj, where my temptations have beenmany : Create in me' O God, a clean heart;ford, lift thou up the light of thy countenance; pon me, that the femoft recedes of my foul may) J enlightened, that l may heboid wonderousmings out of thy law and goipel, and oe madeq; quick underllanding in the fear of the Lord :en lhail l give thee praife for ever and ever,rough Jefus Chrift my Lord.1 recommend my foul into thy hands, for thouft redeemed me, O God of truth an d righte-fuefs : Be thou my defence againft the fearsdeath: that notwithftanding the fuggeftionsthe tempter, 1 may efcape all his fatal fnares,at he may not have the power to do rqe any e-Give thy angeis charge over m* to defend,e, and carry me fafe through the regions of the, to Immanuel’s land, and to ttiy right handheaven above where there are pleafures fur• 8evermore; where we fhall be made kings airpriefts unto God, and go no more out, whetwe fhall throw down out crowns before thee, itoken of our gratitude, crying, “ Worthy is tfcLamb that was fUia (although we are unworthyto receive power, might, rpijefty, dominioiand bleffing. and thankfgiving in the higheft fcever and ever. ** Amen.IV. His Laft GIFT to his CHILDREN.Children dear* a legacy,with you f now do leave :Pray read it o'er and you will foon,my putpofes perceive :,Firft to your God your duty fhew,and live up to his laws tThen comfort you'll herafter take,and vindicate his caufe.Next give all honour that is is due,unto yotfr mother dear $Such will be happy you will find,while they do tarry here :Love to your brethren God commands,that you will alfo fhew ;You then fhall ever live in peace,in joy and honour too.Piay love your neighbour as yourfelf,behave to them moil juft :!n all your thoughts, words and works,then you in God may truft :I hen he'll preferve you in your fteps,that you fhall never fall:Up will always be your fure friend,your God, your guide and all.FINIS.