THEPOPULAR STORIESSPECTRE BRIDEGROOMMASON OF GEANADA.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.lfcl|C«I.fililji-i: . 1 ;:d eok x k '-i: r:. 'fa*erveecvi*PIY80K. OE QEYPiYDTSLECXHE BEIDEGFOOMtOLnr /K 8IOFIE8THESPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.On the summit of one of the heights of the Oden-wald, a wild and romantic tract of Upper Germany,that lies not far from the confluence of the Maineand the Rhine, there stood, many, many years since,the Castle of the Baron Von Landshort. It is nowquite fallen to decay, and almost buried among beech-trees and dark firs; above which, however, its oldwatch-tower may still be seen struggling, like thoformer possessor I have mentioned, to carry a highihead, and look down upon the neighbouring country.The baron was a dry branch of the great family ofiKatzenellenbogen,* and inherited the relics of theproperty, and all the pride of his ancestors. Thoughthe warlike disposition of his predecessors had muchimpaired the family possessions, yet the baron stillendeavoured to keep up some show of former state.The times were peaceable, and the German nobles,in general, had abandoned their inconvenient oldcastles, perched like eagles’ nests among the moun¬tains, and had built more convenient residences in thevalleys: still the baron remained proudly drawn upn his little fortress, cherishing, with hereditary in¬veteracy, all the old family feuds; so that he was on11 terms with some of his nearest neighbours, on ac-* i. e. Cat’s-Elbow—the name of a family of those partsrery powerful in former times. The appellation, we areold, was given in compliment to a peerless dame of theamily, celebrated for her fine arm.rTHE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM,4count of disputes that had happened between theiitgreat-great-grandfathers.The baron had but one. child, a daughter; buinature, when she grants but one child, always corn ipensates by making it a prodigy ; and so it was witijtthe daughter of the baron. All the nurses, gossips!and country cousins, assured her father that she hacjnot her equal for beauty in all Germany ; and win!should know better than they ? She had, moreoveiibeen brought up with great care under the superinitendence of two maiden aunts, who had spent soifllyears of their early life at one of the little Germancourts, and were skilled in all the branches of know!ledge necessary to the education of a fine lady;Under their instructions she became a miracle of actcomplishments. By the time she was eighteen, sh|could embroider to admiration, and had worked whol thistories of the saints in tapestry, with such strengthof expression in their countenances, that they lookedlike so many souls in purgatory. She could reaitwithout great difficulty, and had spelled her wadthrough several church legends, and almost all thljchivalric wonders of the Heldenbuch. She had evertmade considerable proficiency in writing; could signher own name without tnissing a letter, and so legibly:that her aunts could read it without spectacles. Sh !jexcelled in making little 'elegant good-for-nothin;:lady-like nicknacks of all kinds; was versed in th jmost abstruse dancing of the day ; played a numbe 1of airs on the harp and guitar; and knew all th ;tender ballads of the Minnielieders by heart.Her aunts, too, having been great flirts an*coquettes in their younger days, were admirably cal Iculated to be vigilant guardians and strict censors othe conduct of their niece; for there is no duenna S'rigidly prudent, and inexorably decorous, as a superannuated coquette. She was rarely suffered out otheir sight; never went beyond the domains of tb;■ *TBS SPECTRE BUIDEGIIOOM. 6castle, unless well attended, or rather well watched;had continual lectures read to her about strict decorumand implicit obedience; and, as to the men—pah!—she was taught to hold them at such a distance, andin such absolute distrust, that, unless properly author¬ized, she would not have cast a glance upon the hand¬somest cavalier in the world—no, not if he were evendying at her feet.The good effects of this system were wonderfullyapparent. The young lady was a pattern of docilityand correctness. While others were wasting theirsweetness in the glare of the world, and liable to beplucked and thrown aside by every band, she wascoyly blooming into fresh and lovely womanhoodunder the protection of those immaculate spinsters,like a rose-bud blushing forth among guardian thorns.Her aunts looked upon her with pride and exultation,and vaunted that though all the other young ladiesin the world might go astray, yet, thank Heaven,nothing of the kind could happen to the heiress ofKatzenellenbogen.But, however scantily the Baron Von Landshortmight be provided with children, his household wasby no means a small one; for Providence had en¬riched him with abundance of poor relations. They,one and all, possessed the affectionate dispositioncommon to humble relatives; were wonderfully at¬tached to the baron, and took every possible occasionto come in swarms and enliven the castle. All familj'festivals were commemorated by these good peopleat the baron’s expense; and when they were filledwith good cheer, they would declare that there wftenothing on earth so delightful as the.-e family meet¬ings, these jubilees of the heart.The baron, though a small man, had a large sou),and it swelled with satisfaction at the consciousnei*of being the greatest man in the little world abooihim. He loved to tell long stories about the star)?THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.6old warriors whose portraits looked grimly down fromthe walls around, and he found no listeners equal tothose who fed at his expense. lie was much givento the marvellous, and a firm believer in all thosesupernatural tales with which every mountain andvalley in Germany abounds. The faith of his guestsexceeded even his own ; they listened to every taleof wonder with open eyes and mouth, and neverfailed to be astonished, even though repeated for thehundredth time. Thus lived the Baron Von Land-short, the oracle of his table, the absolute monarchoi his little territory, and happy, above all things, inthe persuasion that he was the wisest man of the age.At the time of which my story treats, there was agreat family gathering at the castle, on an affair ofthe utmost importance; it was to receive the destinedbridegroom of the baron’s daughter. A negotiationhad been carried on between the father and an oldnobleman of Bavaria, to unite the dignity ot theirhouses by the marriage of their children. The pre¬liminaries had been conducted with proper punctilio.The young people were bethrotbed without seeingeach other, and the time was appinted for the mar¬riage ceremony. The young Count Von Altenhurghad been recalled from the army for the purpose, andwas actually on his way to the baron’s to receive hisbride. Missives had even been received from him,from Wurtzburg, where he w as accidentally detained,mentioning the day and hour when he might be ex¬pected to arrive.The castle was in a tumult of preparation to givfehim a suitable welcome. The fair bride had beendecked out with uncommon care. The two auntshad superintended her toilet, and quarrelled the wholemorning about every article of her dress. The younglady had taken advantage of their contest to followthe bent ot her own taste, and fortunately it was agood one. She looked as lovely as youthful bride-THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM. 7room could desire; and the flutter of expectationeiglitened the lustre of her charms.. The suffusions that mantled her face and neck, thejentle heaving of the bosom, the eye now and thenlist in reverie, all betrayed the soft tumult that wasoing on in her little heart. The aunts were contin-ally hovering around her ; for maiden aunts are aptd take great interest in affairsof this nature. Theycere giving her a world of staid counsel h' w to de-ort herself, what to say, and in what manner to re-eive the expected lover.1 The baron was no less busied in preparation. Head, in truth, nothing exactly to do ; but he wasaturally a fuming, bustling little man, and could notI email) passive when all the world was in a hurry,le worried from top to bottom of the castle with anir of infinite anxiety ; he continually called the ser¬vants from their work to exhort them to he diligent;uid buzzed about every hall and chamber as idlyestless and importunate as a blue-bottle fly on avarm summer’s day.In the meantime the fatted calf had been killed;he forests had rung with the clamour of the hunts-nen ; the kitchen was crowded with good cheer;)he cellars had yielded up whole oceans of Rhein-weinand Ferne-wein ; and even the great Heidelburg tunnad been laid under contribution. Everything wasi-eady to receive the distinguished guest with Sausand Braus in the true spirit of German hospitality—jbut the guest delayed to make his appearance. Hour(rolled after hour. The sun, that had poured hisdownward rays upon the rich forest of the Odenwald,jnow just gleamed along the summits of the moun-(tains. Tlie baron mounted the highest tower, andistrained his eyes in hopes of catching a distant sight(of the count and his attendants. Once he thoughtihe beheld them ; the sound of horns came floatingifrom the valley, prolonged by the mountain echoes8 THE SPEC'Tftfi BRIDECfriSOM.A number of horsemen were seen far below, slbwBadvancing along the road; but when they had near!reached the foot of the mountain, they suddenly strucoff in a different direction. The last ray of sunshindeparted—the bats began to flit by in the twilight-the road grew dimmer and dimmer to the view, amnothing appeared stirring in it, but now and then ipeasant lagging homeward from his labour.While the old castle of Landshort was in this statof perplexity, a very interesting scene was transacting in a different part of the Odenwald.The young Count Yon Altenburgh was tranquilbpursuing bis route in that sober jog-trot way iswhich a man travels towards matrimony when hitfriends have taken all the trouble and uncertaintyof courtship off his hands, and a bride is waiting fojhim as certainly as a dinner at the end of his jour;ney. He had encountered at Wurtzbnrg a youthfulcompanion in arms, with whom he bad seen sonny■ervice on the frontiers; Herman Yon Starkenfausttone of the stoutest hands and worthiest hearts of Genman chivalry, who was now returning from the armyjHis father’s castle was not far distant from the olcjfortress of Landshort, although an hereditary few?rendered the families hostile and strangers to eachother.In the warm-hearted moment of recognition, theyoung friends related all their past adventures andfortunes, and the count gave the whole history of hisintended nuptials with a young lady whom he hadnever seen, but of whose charms he had received themost enrapturing descriptions.As the route of the friends lay in the same direc¬tion, they agreed to perform the rest of their johrneytogether; and, that they might do it the more lei¬surely, set off from Wurtzburg at an early hour, thecount having given directions for his retinue to followand overtake him.THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.9They beguiled their wayfaring with recollectionsof their military scenes and adventures; but thecount was apt to be a little tedious, now and then,iabout the reputed charms of his bride, and the felicitythat awaited him.In this way they had entered among the moun¬tains of the Odenwald, and were traversing one ofits most lonely and thickly-wooded passes. It is wellknown that the forests of Germany have always been-as much infested by robbers as its castles by spectres;:and, at this time, the former were particularly nu¬merous, from the hordes of disbanded soldiers wan¬dering about the country. It will not appear ex-traordinary, therefore, that the cavaliers were attacked, by a gang of these stragglers, in the midst of the[ forest. They defended themselves with bravery, buti were nearly overpowered, when the count’s retinue■arrived to their assistance. At sight of them the rob-i bers fled, but not until the count had received a mor¬tal wound. He was slowly and carefully conveyedi back to the city of Wurtzburg, and a friar summonea■ from a neighbouring convent, who was famous for his■ skill in administering to both soul and body; buti half of his skill was superfluous; the moments of the■unfortunate count were numbered.I With his dying breath he entreated his friend to■■repair instantly to the castle of Landshort, and ex¬plain the fatal cause of his not keeping his appoint¬ment with his bride. Though not the most ardentlof lovers, he was one of the most punctilious of men,and appeared earnestly solicitous that his missionilshould be speedily and courteously executed. “Un-■ less this is done,” said he, “I shall not sleep quietlyin my grave!” He repeated these last words withpeculiar solemnity. A request, at a moment so im-! pressive, admitted of no hesitation. Starkenfaust■ endeavoured to soothe him to calmness; promised. faithfully to execute his wish, and gave him his handTHE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.10in solemn pledge. The dying man pressed it in ac—:knowledgment, but soon lapsed into delirium—raved)about his bride—his engagements—his plighted word;;ordered his horse, that lie might ride to the castle cf.Landshort; and expired in the fancied act of vaulting ',into the saddle.Starkenfanst bestowed a sigh and a soldier’s tear'on the untimely fate of his comrade; and then pon-jdered on the awkward mission he had undertaken. 1Ilis heart was heavy, and his head perplexed; for hellwas to present himself an unbidden guest among i.hostile people, and to damp their festivity with tid-.|ings fatal to their hopes. Still there were certain j!whisperings of curiosity in his bosom to see this far- *famed beauty of Katzenellenbogen, so cautiously shutup from the world; for he was a passionate admirer iof the sex, and there was a dash of eccentricity and 1enterprise in his character that made him fond of all Isimple adventure.Previous to his departure he made all due arrange- ►ments with the holy fraternity of the convent for the;funeral solemnities of his friend, who was to be buried lin the cathedral of VVurtzburg, near some of hisillus- ■trious relatives; and the mourning retinue of the (count took charge of his remains.It is now high time that we should return to the <ancient family of Katzenellenbogen, who were impa¬tient for their guest, and still more for their dinner;and to the worthy little baron, whom we left airing 'himself on the watch-tower.Night closedin,but stillnognest arrived. The barondescended from the tower in despair. The banquet,which had been delayed from hour to hour, could nolonger be postponed. The meats were already over¬done; the cook in an agony; and the whole house¬hold had the look of a garrison that had been reducedby famine. The baron was obliged reluctantly togive orders for the feast without the presence of theifTHE SPECTRE BR/DEGROOM.11gurst. All were seated at table, and just on the pointof commencing, when the sound of a horn from with¬out the gate gave notice of the approach of a stranger.Another long blast filled the old courts of the castlewith its echoes, and was answered by the warder fromthe walls. The baron hastened to receive his futureson-in-law.The drawbridge had been let down, and thestranger was before the gate. He was a tall, gallantcavalier, mounted on a black steed. His countenancewas pale, but be bad a beaming, romantic eye, andan air of stately melancholy. The baron was a Httiemortified that be should have come in this simple,solitary style. His dignity for a moment was ruffled,and be felt disposed to consider it a want of properrespect for the important occasion, and the importantfamily with which he was to be connected. He paci¬fied himself, however, with the conclusion, that itmust have been youthful impatience which bad in¬duced him thus to spur on sooner than bis attendants.“ I am sorry,” said the stranger, “to break in uponyou thus unseasonably ”Here the baron interrupted him with a world ofcompliments and greetings, for, to tell the truth, heprided himself upon his courtesy and eloquence. Thestranger attempted, once or twice, to stem the torrentof words, hut in vain; so he bowed his head, andsuffered it to flow on. By the time the baron hadcome to a pause, they had reached the inner court ofthe castle; and the stranger was again about to speak,when he was once more interrupted by the appear¬ance of the female part of the family, leading forththe shrinking and blushing bride. He gazed on herfor a moment as one entranced; it seemed as if hiswhole soul beamed forth in the gaze, and rested uponthat lovely form. One of the maiden aunts whis¬pered something in her ear; she made an effort tospeak; her moist blue eye was timidly raised; gaveTHE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.12jl sliy glance of inquiry on the stranger; and wasjH-st again to the ground. The words died away;but there was a sweet smile playing about her lips,and a soft dimpling of the cheek that showed herglance had not been unsatisfactory. It was impossi¬ble for a girl of the fond age of eighteen, highly pre¬disposed for love and matrimony, not to be pleasedwith so gallant a cavalier.The late hour at which the guest had arrived leftOO time for parley. The baron was peremptory, anddeferred all particular conversation until the morn-fcg, and led the way to the untasted banquet.It was served up in the great hall of the castle.Around the walls hung the hard-favoured portraits oftf.e heroes of the house of Katzenellenhogen, and thetrophies which they had gained in the field and inthe chase. Hacked corslets, splintered joustingspears, and tattered banners, were mingled with thespoils of sylvan warfare; the jaws of the wolf, and;he tusks of the boar, grinned horribly among cross¬bows and battle-axes, and a huge pair of antlersbranched immediately over the head of the youthfulbridegroom.The cavalier took but little notice of the company.Or the entertainment. He scarcely tasted the ban¬quet, but seemed absorbed in admiration of his bride.Me conversed in a low tone that could not be over¬heard—for the language of love is never loud; butvyhere is the female ear so dull that it cannot catch&he softest whisper of the lover ? There was a min-«led tenderness and gravity in his manner, that ap¬peared to have a powerful effect upon the youngJady. Her colour came and went as she listened withdeep attention. Now and then she made some blush-ifig reply, and when his eye was turned away, shewould steal a sidelong glance at his romantic counten-ftnee, and heave a gentle sigh of tender happiness.It was evident that the young couple were completelyTHE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM,13: namoured. The aunts, who were deeply versed inhe mysteries of the heart, declared that they hadFallen in love with each other at first sight.The feast went on merrily, or, at least, noisily, for! he guests were all blessed with those keen appetitesi hat attend upon light purses and mountain air. Thei iaron told his best and longest stories, and never badpi'e told them so well, or with such great effect. If: here was anything marvellous, his auditors were lostn astonishment; and if anything facetious, they were: lire to laugh exactly in the right place. The baron,i t is true, like most great men, was too dignified to1 itter any joke but a dull one; it was always en¬forced, however, by a bumper of excellent Hock-ineimer; and even a dull joke, at one’s own table,' icrved up with jolly old wine, is irresistible. Manyi ’'cod things were said by poorer and keener wits,, :hat would not bear repeating, except on similar oc-ncasions; many sly speeches whispered in ladies’ ears,iithat almost convulsed them with suppressed laughter;Find a song or two roared out by a poor, but merryand broad-faced cousin of the baron, that absolutelyi made the maiden aunts hold up their fans.Amidst all this revelry, the stranger guest main-iitained a most singular and unseasonable gravity.Ilis countenance assumed a deeper cast of dejectionias the evening advanced; and, strange as it may ap-: pear, even the baron’s jokes seemed only to renderhim the more melancholy. At times he was lost inthought, and at times there was a perturbed and: restless wandering of the eye that bespoke a mind butill at ease. His conversations with the bride became: more and more earnest and mysterious. Loweringclouds began to steal over the fair serenity of herbrow, and tremors to run through her tender frame.All this could not escape the notice of the com-! pany. Their gaiety was chilled by the unaccounta¬ble gloom of the bridegroom ; their spirits were in-14TUE El’ECTBE BRIDEGROOM.focted ; whispers and glances were interclianged, aacompanied by shrugs and dubious shakes of the hearThe song and the laugh grew less and less frequentthere were dreary pauses in the conversation, whiciwere at length succeeded by wild tales and supernaiural legends. One dismal story produced auothestill more dismal, and the baron nearly frightene*some of the ladies into hysterics with the history o-tke goblin horseman that carried away the fair LeonOra; a dreadful story, which has since been put infexcellent verse, and is read and believed by all th.world.The bridegroom listened to this tale with profouwattention, lie kept his eyes steadily iixed on tinbaron, and, as the story drew to a close, began gradu¬ally to rise from his seat, growing taller and talleruntil, in the baron’s entranced eye, he seemed alumsto tower into a giant. The moment the tale wa.\finished he heaved a deep sigh, and took a solemifarewell of the company. They were all amazementThe baron was perfectly thunderstruck.“What! going to leave the castle at midnightrwhy, everything was prepared for his reception; achamber was ready for him if he wished to retire.” ;The stranger shook his head mournfully and mys¬teriously ; “I must lay my head in a different cham¬ber to-night!”There was something in this reply, and the tone in:which it was uttered, that made the baron’s heartimisgive him ; but he rallied his forces, and repeated'his hospitable entreaties.The stranger shook his head silently, but positively,,at every offer; and, waving his farewell to the com¬pany, stalked slowly out of the hall. The maiden:aunts were absolutely petrified—the bride hung herhead, and a tear stole to her eye.The baron followed the stranger to the great court:of the castle, where the black charger stood pawing;THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.15tlio enrtli, and snorting with impatience. .When theyhad readied the portal, whose deep archway wasdimly lighted by a cresset, the Stranger paused, andaddressed the baron in a hollow tone of voice, whichthe vaulted roof rendered still more sepulchral.“ Now that we are alone,” said he, “ I will impart toyou the reason of my going. I have a solemn, anindispensable engagement ”“Why,” said the baron, “cannot you send someone in your place ?”“It admits of no substitute—I must attend it inperson—I must away to Wurtzhurg cathedral ”“Ay,” said the baron, plucking up spirit, “butnot until to-morrow’—to-morrow you shall take yourbride there.”“No! no!” replied the stranger, with tenfoldsolemnity, “ my engagement is with no bride—theworms! the worms expect me! I am a dead man—I have been slain by robbers—my body lies at Wurtz-burg—at midnight I am to be buried—the grave iswaiting for me—I must keep my apppointment!”He sprang on bis black charger, dashed over thedrawbridge, and the clattering of bis horse’s hoofswas lost in the whistling of the night-blast.The baron returned to the hall in the utmost con¬sternation, and related what had passed. Two ladiesfainted outright, others sickened at the idea of havingbanqueted with a spectre. It was the opinion ofsome, that this might be the wild huntsman, famousin German legend. Some talked of mountain sprites,of wood-demons, and of other supernatural beings,with which the good people of Germany have beenso grievously harassed since time immemorial. • Oneof the poor relations ventured to suggest that it mightbe some sportive evasion of the young cavalier, andthat the very gloominess of the caprice seemed to ac¬cord with so melancholy a personage. This, how¬ever, drew on him the indignation of the whole com-THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.16pany, and especially of the baron, who looked uponhim as little better than an infidel; so that be wasfain to abjure his heresy as speedily as possible, andcome into the faith of the true believers.But whatever may have been the doubts enter¬tained, they were completely put to an end by thearrival, next day, of regular missives, confirming theintelligence of the young count’s murder, and his in¬terment in Wurtzburg cathedral.The dismay at the castle may well be imagined.The baron shut himself up in his chamber. Theguests, who had come to rejoice with him, could notthink of abandoning him in his distress. They wan¬dered about the courts, or collected in groups in thehall, shaking their heads and shrugging their shoulders,at the troubles of so good a man; and sat longer thanever at table, and ate and drank more stoutly thanever, by way of keeping up their spirits. But thesituation of the widowed bride was the most pitiable.To have lost a husband before she had even embracedhim—and such a husband! if the very spectre couldbe so gracious and noble, what must have been theliving man ? She filled the house with lamentations.On the night of the second day of her widowhoodshe had retired to her chamber, accompanied by oneof her aunts, who insisted on sleeping with her. Theaunt, who was one of the best tellers of ghost-storiesin all Germany, had just been recounting one of herlongest, and had fallen asleep in the very midst of it.The chamber was remote, and overlooked a smallgarden. The neice lay pensively gazing at the beamsof the rising moon, as they trembled on the leaves otan aspen-tree before the lattice. The castle clock hadjust tolled midnight, when a soft strain of music stoleup from the garden. She rose hastily from her bed,and stepped lightly to the window. A tall figurestood among the shadows of the tree. As it raisedits head, a beam of moonlight fell upon the counten-THE SMtoAE BHXDiSCfitOdif. VJance. Heaven and earth! she beheld the SpectreBridegroom ! A loud shriek at that moment burstupon her ear, and her aunt, who had been awakenedby the music, and had followed her silently to thewindow, fell into her arms. When she looked again,the spectre had disappeared.Of the two females, the aunt now required themost soothing, for she was perfectly beside herselfwith terror. As to the young lady, there was some¬thing, even in the spectre of her lover, that seemedendearing. There was still the semblance of manlybeauty; and though the shadow of a man is butlittle calculated to satisfy the affections of a love-sickgirl, yet, where the substance is not to be had, eventhat is consoling. The aunt declared she never wouldsleep in that chamber again ; the niece, for once, wasrefractory, and declared as strongly that she wouldsleep in no other in the castle : the consequence was,that she had to sleep in it alone: butshe drew a pro¬mise from her aunt not to relate the story of thespectre, lest she should be denied the only melancholypleasure left her on earth— that of inhabiting thechamber over which the guardian shade of her loverkept its nightly vigils.How long the good old lady would have observedthis promise is uncertain, for she dearly loved to talkof the marvellous, and there is a triumph in being thefirst to tell a frightful story; it is, however, stillquoted in the neighbourhood, as a memorable instanceof female secrecy, that she kept it to herself for awhole week ; when she was suddenly absolved fromall further restraint, by intelligence brought to thebreakfast-table one morning that the young lady wasnot to be found. Her room was empty—the bed hadnot been slept in—the window was open, and thebird had flown!The astonishment and concern with which the in¬telligence was received, can only be imagined by thoseTHE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.18who have witnessed the agitation which the mishapsof a great man cause among his friends. Even thepoor relations paused for a moment from the indefati¬gable labours of the trencher; when the aunt, whohad at first been struck speechless, wrung her hands,and shrieked out, “The goblin! the goblin! she’scarried away by the goblin !”In a few words she related the fearful scene of thegarden, and concluded that the spectre must havecarried off his bride. Two of the domestics corro¬borated the opinion, for they had heard the clatteringof a horse’s hoofs down the mountain about midnight,and bad no doubt that it was the spectre on his blackcharger, bearing her away to the tomb. All presentwere struck with the direful probability; foreventsof the kind are extremely common in Germany, asinanv well authenticated histories bear witness.What a lamentable situation was that of the poorbaron! What a heart-rending dilemma for a fondfather, and a member of the great family of Katze-nellenbogen ! Ilis only daughter bad either been raptaway to the grave, or he was to have some wood de¬mon for a son-in-law, and perchance, a troop of gob¬lin grandchildren. As usual, he was completely be¬wildered, and all the castle in an uproar. The menwere ordered to take horse, and scour every road andpath and glen of the Odenwald. The baron himselfhad just drawn on his jack-boots, girded on his sword,and was about to mount liis steed to sally forth onthe doubtful quest, when be was brought to a pauseby a new apparition. A lady was seen approachingthe castle, mounted on a palfrey, attended by a cava¬lier on horseoack. She galloped up to the gate,sprang from her horse, and falling at the baron’s feet,embraced his knees. It was bis lost daughter, andher companion—the Spectre Bridegroom ! The baronwas astounded. He looked at his daughter, then atthe spectre, and almost doubted the evidence of bisTHE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM.19nsos. The latter, too, was wonderfully improved(i his appearance since his visit to the world of spirits,[is dress was splendid, and set off a noble figure ofaanly symmetry. He was no longer pale and melaiKholy. Ilis fine countenance was flushed with thejlow of youth, and joy rioted in his large dark eye.The mystery was soon cleared up. The cavalierfor, in truth, as you must have known all the while,e was no goblin) announced himself as Sir Hermanfon Starkenfaust. He related his adventure withhe young count. He told how he had hastened toj,ie castle to deliver the unwelcome tidings, but that:ie eloquence of the baron had interrupted him invery attempt to tell his tale. How the sight of theride had completely captivated him, and that tolass a few hours near her, he had tacitly suffered thedstake to continue. How he had been sorely per-ilexed in what way to make a decent retreat, untilhe baron’s goblin stories had suggested his eccentricxit. How, fearing the feudal hostility of the family,ie had repeated his visits by stealth—had hauntedhe garden beneath the young lady’s window—hadvooed—had won—had borne away in triumph—and,n a word, nad wedded the fair.Under any other circumstances the baron wouldlave been inflexible, for he was tenacious of paternalmthority, and devoutly obstinate in all family feuds ;mt he loved his daughter ; he had lamented her asost; he rejoiced to find her still alive ; and, thoughler husband was of a hostile house, yet, thank hea¬ven, he was not a goblin. There was something, itnust be acknowledged, that did not exactly accordvith bis notions of strict veracity, in the joke the(night bad passed upon him of bis being a dead man ;nit several old friends present, who bad served in thewars, assured him that every stratagem was excusablen love, and that the cavalier was entitled to especialprivilege, having lately served as a trooncr.r2D THE SPECTrtEMatters, therefore, were happily arranged. Thebaron pardoned the young couple on the spot. Therevels at the castle were resumed. The poor rela-ktions overwhelmed this new member of the familjiwith loving-kindness ; he was so gallant, so generou;:—and so rich. The aunts, it is true, were somewhatscandalized that their system of strict seclusion an<&passive obedience should be so badly exemplified, butt'attributed it all to their negligence in not having thcjwindows grated. One of them was particularly mor¬tified at having her marvellous story marred, and thatithe only spectre she had ever seen should turn out aicounterfeit; but the niece seemed perfectly happy at.‘:having found him substantial flesh and blood—and sorthe story ends.END OF THE SPECTRE BRIDEGROOM,THE MASON OF GRANADA.There was once upon a time a poor mason, orjj bricklayer, in Granada, who kept all the saints’ daysand holidays, and Saint Monday into the bargain, andyet, with all his devotion, he grew poorer and poorer,and could scarcely earn bread for his numerous family.One night he was roused from his first sleep by aknocking at his door. He opened it and was accostedby a tall, meagre, cadaverous-looking priest.“Hark ye, honest friend!” said the stranger, “Ihave observed that you are a good Christian, and oneto be trusted; will you undertake a job this verynight ?”“ With all my heart, Senor Padre, on conditionthat I am paid accordingly.”“Thatyou shall be; but you must suffer yourselfto be blindfolded.”To this the mason made no objection; so, beinghoodwinked, he was led by the priest through variousrough lanes and winding passages, until they stoppedbefore the portal of a house. The priest then applieda key, turned a creaking lock, and opened what soundedlike a ponderous door. They entered, the door wasclosed and bolted, and the mason was conductedthrough an echoing corridor, and a spacious hall, toan interior part of the building. Here the bandagewas removed from his eyes, and he found himself in apatio, or court, dimly lighted by a single lamp. Inthe centre was the dry basin of an old Moorish foun¬tain, under which the priest requested him to form asmall vault, bricks and mortar being at hand for thepurpose. He accordingly worked all night, but with¬out finishing the job. Just before day-break, the22THE MASOH OF GRANADA.priest put a piece of gold into his hand, and havingagain blindfolded him, conducted him back to hisdwelling.“Are you willing,” said he, “to return and com¬plete your work ?”“Gladly, Senor Padre, provided I am so wellpaid.”“ Well, then, to-morrow at midnight I will callagain.”He did so, and the vault was completed.“Now,” said the priest, “you must help me tobring forth the bodies that are to be buried in thisvault.”The poor mason’s hair rose on his head at thesewords: he followed the priest, with trembling steps,into a retired chamber of the mansion, expecting tobehold some ghastly spectacle of death, but was re¬lieved on perceiving three or four portly jars standingin one corner. They were evidently full of money,and it was with great labour that he and the priestcarried them forth and consigned them to their tomb.The vault was then closed, the pavement replaced,and all traces of the work obliterated. The masonwas again hoodwinked and led forth by a route differ¬ent from that by which he had come. After theyhad wandered for a long time through a perplexedmaze of lanes and alleys, they halted. The priestthen put two pieces of gold into his hand: “Waithere,” said he, “ until you hear the cathedral bell tollfor matins. If you presume to uncover your eyesbefore that time, evil will befall youso saying, hedeparted. The mason waited faithfully, amusinghimself by weighing the gold pieces in his hand, andclinking them against each other. The moment thecathedral bell rang its matin peal, he uncovered hiseyes, and found himself on the banks of the Xenil,from whence he made the best of his way home, andrevelled with his family for a whole fortnight on theTHE MASON 07 GRANADA. 23rofits of his two nights’ work; after which he was asooor as ever.He continued to work a little, and pray a goodcal, and keep saints’ days and holidays, from yeard year, while his family grew up as gaunt and raggeds a crew of gypsies. As he was seated one eveningt the door of his hovel, he was accosted by a richId curmudgeon, who was noted for owning manyouses, and being a griping landlord. The man ofnoney eyed him for a moment from beneath a pair ofl(.nxious shajrged eyebrows.| “ I am told, my friend, that you are very poor.”“ 'i here is no denying the fact, Senor—it speaksrbr itself.”“ I presume, then, that you will be glad of a job,md will work cheap.”“ As cheap, my master, as any mason in Granada.’’“That’s what I want. I have an old house falleninto decay, that costs me more money than it is worthto keep it in repair, for nobody will live in it; so Imust contrive to patch it up and keep it together atas small expense as possible.”The mason was accordingly conducted to a largedeserted house that seemed going to ruin. Passingthrough several empty halls and chambers, he en¬tered an inner court, where his eye was caught by anold Moorish fountain. He paused for a moment, fora dreaming recollection of the place came over him.“ Pray,” said he, “ who occupied this house for¬merly ?”“ A pest upon him,” cried the landlord, “it was anold miserly priest, who cared for nobody but him¬self. He was said to be immensely rich, and havingno relations, it was supposed would leave all histreasures to the Church. He died suddenly, andthe priests and friars thronged to take possessionof his wealth; but nothing could they find but afew ducats in a leathern purse. The worst luckTHE MASON OF GRANADA.24has fallen on me, for, since his death, the old fellocontinues to occupy my house without paying reniand there’s no taking the law of a dead man. TMpeople pretend to hear the clinking of gold all nigh-in the chamber where the old priest slept, as if h>!were counting oyer his money, and sometimes a groan:ing and moaning about the court. Whether true ofalse, these stories have brought a bad name on m;house, and not a tenant will remain in it.”“ Enough,” said the mason sturdily; “ let me live iryour house rent-free until some better tenant presentand I will engage to put it in repair, and to quiet thfttroubled spirit that disturbs it. I am a good Chris-'tian and a poor man, and am not to be daunted bythe Devil himself, even though he should come in theshape of a big bag of money! ”The offer of the honest mason was gladly accepted;he moved with his family into the house, and fulfilled'all his engagements. By little and little he restored1it to its former state; the clinking of gold was no!more heard at night in the chamber of the defunctpriest, but began to be heard by day in the pocketof the living mason. In a word, he increased rapidlyin wealth, to the admiration of all his neighbours, andbecame one of the richest men in Granada: he gavelarge sums to the Church, by way, no doubt, of satis¬fying his conscience, and never revealed the secret ofthe vault until on his death-bed, to his son and heir.