3%«rIF ANTON JFJFEofBAT H.A Curious old Rail ad.From an ancient Cep) in Black-print.TettrZ'ad: Prirtni fy P, E*chm.THE WIFE OF BATH.In Bath, a wanton wile did thveU,as Chaut'dr hfc'doth‘write. •Who did in piealurc hgetni her Jaysand niau) a fond delight. .•*Upon aetime fore fick fhe was,.and a' me length did die;And tfiea .hcr foul at heave as .gatedid knock molt mightily. ■'■> § turn * ’ > *m.tl|PPPji Q1 »fir ft Adtfm came unto the gate;who kn^kethThere quoth he," I am me wit' oil r.a|n^lhe f ed;and fain would come to dice..Thou art a ftnner Adam faid,and h.ie no,p;]jTc mah have..And lo <,r .iiodT t.ow qaotn thenow g:p jo« doting' Knave. ;w &' ' VI v/ill come in. in Ip gl t ftteof all facrf clium as thee;Thou art thecaufer oi cur woe.our pain ed mdcry. -3..\And mil broke Gc^ conyp«ndynej)4>,m t:\ . afut e of thy wife—*’When heard her (dl this tale,he ran auay ior.iife.Then down came Jacob at the gate,and bid hi_rp ck to heil;Thou i he o-ce sein!.'knave quoth fhe,ih u ua.ft be there as well.For-thou decejiv- ft thy Father dear,aiiu thine own bit iher <oo.Away ftu..k Javob prelehtty,and nivtac no more ado.She knocks again with might and main,and Let he chides her ftraight,Id®wr now quoth the, thou drunken aft,who bade thee here to prate?With tjhv two daughters thou didJl-lye,on them two baftards got;And thus moil tauntingly (he chafitagainil poor filly Lot.\4Who calleth there quoth Judith then,with luch (hnli founding notes?This fine minkes furely came not here.Quoth (he, ior cutting throats.Good le d, how Judith fclufh'd for ihatne,whan flie htiird her fay fb!King David hearing o' the ‘ame,he to the the gate would go.Quoth Dark! who knoks there fo (out),and maketh all rtui If-tfo?You w'ere more kind good Sir,4he faid,unto Uriahs wife.And when thy fervant thou didft caufeIn battle to be Aain;Thou caufedft far more ftrife than I*,who would come here fo fain.The woman's mad quoth Solomon,that thus doth^aunt a king.FJbt half fo mad as you, (he faid,( trow in many a tiling-5Thou ihatl fevcn hundred wives at once,for whom thou didd: provide:And yet god wot three hum!red whoresthou didft maatam befuie:tAnd they made thee forfakc thy God,and worlhip fiocks and ftones;Befuies the charge they put you toIn breeding of yotng bones.Hadft thou not been befide thy wjts,Thou wouldft not thus have ventured}And therefore I do marvel much,how thou this place hall entered.I never heard quoth Jonas then,fo vile a fcold as this.Thou whore-fon tun away quoth (he,thou diddl more amifs.They fay quoth Thomas, womens tonguesof afpen leavss are made.Thou unbelieving •wretch quoth Ihe,all is not true that’s faid. >6Wtien Mary Magdalene heard her thenfhe came unto the tyite;Quofh 'hegt.'.Hj f'voriiah vowmuft thinkupon your former (iate,No., firmer enters in this place,quoth Mary Ma^daiene. Then’Twere - ill for you, fair miftrefs mind,fhe anf\rered her again:You. for your honeffy quoth Hie,had once been iloned to death;Had notour Saviour Chriftcome by,and written on the earth:.It was not by your occupation,you are become divine:I hope my foul in Chrift his paflion,fhali be as fafe as thine.lUprofe the good apoftle Pau?,and to this wife lie cried,lixeept thou fljake thy tin awaythou here ihalt be denied.5Remember Paul what thou lu.ft done,al! through a lewd ddlre:How thou did ft perfecute.Godschui’oh- -with wrath as hot as fire.Then up ftarts Peter at the laft,and to the gate he hies:Pond fool quoth he knock not fo raft,thou wearieft Chrift with cries.Peter fa;d fhe content thyfelf,tor nrerey may be won;I Lever t id den^ sty Chrift,as thou thyieli haft done.W Wra-r SavCirthrin hcSft! llis,wtth ! e.ve.dy angQU bright-Ht aunes un.o thi.v finful iouhvh , trembled af his ftght. ••lOfh' m for mereydhe d?d (dtquoth V t\&u haft fefuf’a ^My proffered grace, and^’ercy b^iJj :;v ^und much Ivy a^uVdi ' ‘"83ore have f fmn’d Lord (he faid,an<l fpent my time in vain;Lui bring me like a wandering iheepinto thy fold again.0 Lord my God, I vri]l amendmy former wicked vice:Thsthiefftr one poor filly wordpart into paradice.My laws and my com maud iments,faith Chrift were known to thee,But of the fame m any vvi/e.Not yet one word did ye.1 grant the fame, O Lord quoth fhejmoft lewedly did* 1 live;But yet the ioVing, father didhis prodigal foil forgive.So I forgive thy foul, he faid,through thy repenting ery>>Come enter then into my retfiI will not- thee deny.F h N-1 5.