PLANT OF RENOWN,ASERMON,ONEzek. xxxiv. 29;i And 1 will raise ap for them a Plant ofRenown.PREACHED ATA Sacramental Occasion,ATGL END IVAN.About 1738.BYI Mr Ebenezer Erskine,Late Minister of the Gospel at Stirling..EDINBURGH.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.f T OF SCOTUIfD HSERMON.Ezek. xxxir. 29.And I will raise up for them a Plantof Renown.Ie we cast our eyes back upon the foregoinglaaft sf this chapter, we shall find a very melan¬choly scene casting up; we shall find the floakmd heritage of God scattered, robbed and peel-bd by the civil and ecclesiastical Rulers that;were in being in that day a day much like to theday wherein we live: the ruin of the church ofiChrist, ia all ages and periods of the world, hastoeen owing to combinations betwixt corruptichurchmeH and corrupt statesmen; and so youwill find it. In the preceding part of this chap¬ter there is a high charge brought in agaisst theshepherds of Israel, and a terrible and awful[(threatening denounced by the great and chief1Shepherd against them, for the bad treatmentflthat •the flock of Christ had met with in theirllhands: however the sheep of Christ may bellfleeced and scattered, and spoiled, yet the LordHlacks on them, and many great and precioujHpromises are made for their encouragement iit|that evil day, you may read them at your owrlleisure; for I must not stay upon them jusinow. But among all the rest of the promisesthat are made, Christ is the chief, Christ is thf 'tos-Iock of the church, whatever trouble she iiin. In Isa, vii. the church had a tremblingheart, God's Israel was shaken as ever you sawthe leaves of the wood shaken by the wind, breason of two kings combining against them! —.Well the Lord tells them, a Virgin shall con .•ceive, and bear a Son, and shall call his natnImmanuel. But, might the church say, wha 1is that t» us? What encouragement doth it a£ iford in this distress! Why, the Messia Iis to come of the tribe of Judah, and the faznil :of David, and therefore that tribe and familmust be preserved, in order to the accomplishment of the promise; whatever distance of timsuppose hundreds or thousands of years, maintervene before the actual coming of the Mej isiah; yet the promise ef his coming, as it is thground of your faith for eternal salvation, sois a security for the present, that the enemy shai.not prevail, to the total ruia of Judah and throyal family of David'. In all the distresses o 1the chiirch, Christ is always presented to her, ithe promise, as the object of her faith, and tf5I ground of* her consolation. And, accordingly,They looked to him, in the promise, and werelightened j and their faces were not ashamed.He is here promised under the notion of David,he is premised under the notion of God’s ser¬vant; and in the words of the text, he is promisedas a renowned Plant, that was to rise in the ful¬ness of time. And blessed be God, he hassprung up, and is in heaven already, and hasovertopt all his enemies, and all his enemiesshall be his footstool.i the Messiah, whore, again, you may notice thePromiser, 1, 1 will raise up,*' See. It is a great I,dndeed, it is Jehovah, in the person, of the Fa-'Jiher, it was he "that, in a peculiar manner, sent■| him:-** God so loved the world, that he gave his:I only begotten Son, that whosoever beiieveth inhim, should not perish, but have everlasting life.In the fulness ®f time, he sent forth his Sop,I nade of a woman, made under the law, lo re-' deem, them that were under the law, that we, might treceive the adoption of sows.” God pro¬mised to send him, and accordingly he has ac¬tually fulfilled Tiis promise.— Again, 2ly, Wenay notice the blessing promised, and that is, aPlaa,t of renown. Christ gets many metaphori-:al names and descriptions in Scriptures He istailed a Rose a Son a Door the Tree' of Life,nid he is Content to be called any thing to makeHere then, you have a comfortable promise oflisnself known to us, and here he is calie’d a6Pal. t, and a renowned P^ant but more of thisafterwards. But then, 3dly, We have the pro¬duction of this P'ant, I will raise himup. He will endeavour to keep him down,the devil and his angels will endeavour to•smother him, when he sets his head aboveground! So we find Satan sends Herod, andHerod sends the bloody dragoons te» murder himwhen he came into the world; but let hell do itsutmost, as it htth done in all ages, and is«doirgthis day, to smother that Plant, up it will be./ will raise him up, and therefore he shall pros¬per. But then, again, 4th.y, we may noticehere, for whom, or for what end, and for whoseuse and benefit it is. I will raise up for them aplant of renown. Who these are you will see,by casting your eye on the former part of thechapter, it is for the Lord’s flock, his oppressedheritage, that are borne dr wn by wicked rulers,civil and ecclesiastic. I will raise up for them aP.ar.t of renown, and he will be their deliverer.The doctrine that naturally arises frem thisfh st clause of the verse, is in sh'»rt this, “ ThatChrist is a Plant of renown, of God’s raisingup, for the benefit and advantage of his peo¬ple, or, ur. their comfort and relief, in alltheir distresses.*’bLnv, in discoursing this doctrine, if time anastrength would allow, I might premise,A few things cencernirg this blessed plant.H. I might enquire why he is called a Plant!of renowa.Ilf. Speak a little to the raising up of thisPlant. •IV, Shew for whom he is raised up.Consider for what end. And,Lastly, Apply.As to the first of these, namely, To premisei few things concerning this blessed plant.I. I would have you to know what is here at¬tributed and ascribed to Christ. It is not to beunderstood absolutely of him a* God, but offi-bially as Mediator and Redeemer. Consideringhim absolutely as God, this cannot be properlyLid of him, . that he was raised up afterhe is God co-equal and co-essential withjthe Father, but viewing him as ■Medi¬ator, he is a Plant, as it went, ol God’s training.8You will see from the context, all that is said of IChrist has a respect to him as a Mediator, thathe was to be God’s'servant to do his work, in1]that consideration he is here called a Plant, and ]a Plant of renown. Hence Zac'iarias, when I; speaking of him, has a phrase much to the same 1purpose, He has raised tip a horn of salvation ■{for us in the house of his servant David.' Again, I2. Another thing I would have you to remark,is, That this Plant is but small and little is theeyes of a blind world. He was little lookedupon, when he sprung in his incarnation, andwhen he was here in a state of humiliation, menlooked upon him, “ as a Root sprung up out ofa dry ground, they saw no comeliness in him,why he should be desired!'' and to this dayjthough he be in a state of exaltation at the righthand cf God, yet he is little thought of, andlooked upon by the generality of mankind, aridthe hearers of the gospel; He is despised andrejected of men. Bufthen,3. Another thing I would have you to remark,is, That however contemptible this Plant of re¬nown is, in the eyes of a blind world, yet he is, .the tallest in all God’s Labanon, there is not 1the like of him in it; “ Me is fairer than the Cchildren of men,” and, “He is as the apple-tree jamong the trees cf the wood." If ever you seehim, ye will be ready to say so too: “ When——9lave I in heaven but thee, and there is none uponihe earth that I desire besides thee.” Again,4. Another thing I remark, is. That this bless-J:d Plant of renown was cut down in his death,i.and sprung up gloriously in his resurrection; theSi sword of Divine Justice hewed down this bless-red plant upon Mount Calvary, but within threeidays he sprung up again more glorious, andmore beautiful, and more amiable than ever,land He was declared to he the Son of Qod,(jwith power, according to the spirit of holiness,jby his resurrection from the dead.Lastly, I would have you to remarkjthis thing, That all the little.' plants in thejgarden.are ingrafted in this Plant of renown.am the Vine, ye are the branches, the manabideth in me, and I in him, the same bringethferth much fruit, For without me, ye can donothing,—1 am a green fig-tree, from me is thisfruit found." If you be not ingrafted, sirs, in thisPlant, you will never grow, and all the treesthat are not planted in him, they are ail butweeds; and there is a time coming, when ai! theweeds will be plucked up, and therefore takeheed that you~be ingrafted in him by a faith ofGod’s operation.— So much for the first thing !proposed-.Twe second thin* was to shew, That He is arenowned Plant He is renowned in heaven,and he is renowned on earth, and will be so, for‘ His name shall endure for ever,' Psal. Ixxii.' 17.O he is renowned! For what, say you, is he re- inownod? 1 might here enter’upon a very large ffield, but f shall only teii you, Ifiat he is rer!nowned iri his Person! There was never the Jlike of him. The two natures, God and man, Iare joined together in one, in him! Did Kyou ever see that If you have not seen that,'|[you have not seen the Mystery of Godliness,'ijfie*is the most renowned Person in heaven,^,But he is Immahukl, God manifested in theflesh.” Then, he is renowned for his pedigree;Who can declare his generation?” Consideringt-him as- God, his eternal generation from theFather, cannot be to d. We can tcil you, Be is,the only-begotten of the Fa:h; *, but we cannot'tell you the manner of his generation, it is »•secret that God has drawn a veil over; and it isdangerous to venture into a search of it: andjthey" that have attempted it have commonly,been boged into Ariau, Arminian, and Sabeilian -■errors. Considering- him as man, he is sprungef a race of ancient kings; a famous catalogue!of them you read of in Matth. 1st. And who candeclare his generation even as man ? For he wasborn of a virgin, and conceived by the over¬shadowing power of the Highest.—Then He isrenowned for his Name: He hath a Name aboveevery natnpv that can be named, whether in thisworld, or in that which is to coma-.”—111 tie is renown ed for his Wisdom, for, all thetreasures cf wisdom and knowledge are in him.3e is renowned for his Power, for, he is not only(:he wisdom of God, but the power of God : He8s, '• The Man of God’s right hand, even theion of man, whem he hath made strong for h:m,elf. " He is renowned for his veracity and ti-idelity, for. faithfulness is the girdle of his reins,Ipncl righteeusr.ess the girdle or his loins Havetijyoa got a word from him depend upon it, it is a::jsicker word, does not fail, the word of the Lord> tendures for ever, when heaven and earth shalli/pass away, fie is renowned fer his Righteous-dness, for he has brought in an everlasting right-imsness, whereby the law is magnified andiade honourable, and by the imputation ofiich, the guilty transgressors are acquittedHe was (Bade sin fct us, who knew no sin,■at we might be made the righteousness of Godi him/’ This is his name, The Lord ourghteeusness, He is renowned for his fulness,ir all the fulness of the Godhead dwells .bodily, him. He is full "of grace aod truth, full of1 created and uncreated exceilenciee—He isgowned for his Loire. What but love brought[him cut of the bosom of the Father to this lowerworld ? What but love made h: .: lay down hisilife for his tieopie?—He is renoWSed for his *ibe-r dity. He has a full hand and. free heart, as weuse_tc say. He gives without money; and heinvites all to come and sltare of his fulness.—He is renowned for his constancy. He is Jesus,the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever. The12best of men will fail us, when we trust thee,they will run like splinters into our hands, whenwe lean upon them: but sirs you will find Christay the same, “ To-day, yesterday, for ever.And then, He is renowned for his authority anddominion. It is great, and extends far and widewhether in heaven ab*sve or in the earth beneath;and his dominion reaches from sea to sea, andfrom the river unto the ends of the earth; and allthe kings of the earth are but his vassals. Thus,l say, Christ, in every respect, is renowned.But here, to keep by the Phraseology of thetext, He is a renowned Plant. Wherein is he re-npwr.eq?1. He is renowned for his antiquity; f‘ I wasset up from ever'asting, from'the beginning, orever the earth was," &c. Ail the plants in thehigher and lower garden of God, they are butjust up-starts in comparisor» of him. Angels andarchangels, and the greatest seraphims are but ofyesterday, in comparison of this Plant. He isrenowned for his antiquity; for he is the Ancientcf days, and the everlasting Father, or the Fatherof eternity, as it may be rendered, Isa. ix.2. Ashe is renowned for his antiquity, so fi rhis beauty; he is the most beautiful plant in ailthe garden cf God. “ I am the Rose of Sharon,- . ' m '13and the Lily ef the vallies.—He iff as the appletree among the trees of the ■fc-oed." He is re¬nowned, I say,- for his beauty and his'glory; forthe glory of a God is in him. Is there any gloryin his eternal Father ? Why, that glory shines inour Immanuel in the very brightness of h. Heis the brightness of the Father’s glory, and theexpress image of his person,” Heb 1, 3. Nowsirs, If ever your eyes were opened by the spiritof God, to take up the glory of this Plant, histg!ory has dazzled your very eyes. You say they; never saw any glory in him, you never saw himto this very day, pray that the light of the . glory■«f. God, in the face of Jesus Christ, may yetshine in your hearts. It would make a heartsomesacrament- if this Plant w< re displayed in hisglory among us. Sirs, have you come to seehim in lus glory? O give God no rest, till hel make a discovery of himself to your souls, Then.S. He is renowned for his verdure, f®r hisperpetual greenness. Olher plants are fading,you and I are fading plants.—All flesh is grass,and all the goodiiness thereof is as the flowerof the field.” He is a Tree ever green-, he neverfades, summer wor winter, and shall be ever agreen Plant to the saints, as it were, to eternity:/When millions of ages, yea, myriads of ages, arepast in heaven, he will be as fresh and green tothe believer as when he first saw him or the firstmoment the saints entered into jflory: and there¬fore it is, that the sfengs of the redeemed in glo-14ry, are ay new soHgs, because they will ay benew songs, because they will ay see matter of anew song; and the more they see, they Will morewonder at him thrcugfe, eternity.4.' This Plant is als* renowned for his Virtue.We read Rev xxii that “ The leaves of theTree of Life were for the healing of the na¬tions “ That Tree of Life is the very same withthis Plant of renewu, the leaves of tins Plant arefor the healing of the nations: atsd we that areministers, are ceme this day to scatter the leavesof this Tree Life, of this Plant of Renownam«ng you; try if you can get a leaf of it appliedand get home upon your souls: depend upon it,there is virtue in every word of his.—Sirs,mingle faith with a ward, and ytu will .find itwill have the same, efficacy with you, »s it had-with the poor woman with the bioody issue,was healed with a t -uch of the hein of hisgarment who had spent ad her living on doctors. !0 see if ye can find him! I assure you he is here.;he is knocking at the door of every man's heart;Beboid 1 stand (says he) at the door and knock.If arty mau hear my voice, and open the doer,1 win come in to him, and sup with him, and hewith me. And' O let him in, there is virtue iuhim for curing you all: though there were tenthousand mtlnons of y;;« more than there are,there is virtue in him for healing you all.155. Txhis blessed Plant is likewise renownedfor his fertility. He is nat a barren Plant, hewould nat be renowned if he were barren. Hebrings forth all manner of fruit every menthyba, I may add, every day, every moment. Youread in Rev xxii of the tree of life, that bringsforth twelve manner of fruits every month-, thatis to say, he brings forth all fruit that is necessaryfora pjor soul. Whatever thy soul stands inneed of, is ta be found in him. see then andgather, see if you can gather some of it. Thereis the fruit ef his incarnation There is the fruitof his death. There is the fruit of his intercession,and sitting or, the right hand ef God. There islithe fruit of, his prophetic office. There is theI fruit ©f his kingly office. There is the fruit ofhis appearing within the vail, There is the fruitof what he did withssjt the Tail, aad tsitheutire camp. G what fruit is here! Here is wisdomfor fooife: justification for the qpndemned soul;sanctification for the polluted soul; clothing forthe naked; riches for the poor, bread for thehungry, drink for tire thirsty. All manner of: fruit is here, and we are trying, sirs, to shskeJ the Tree of Life among you; and blessed beGod. they may be gathered. O sirs! they aredropping ary.ong you; O gather, gather, forsalvation is in every word that drops from him,his words are the words of eternal life. But,6. This Plant is renowned for his scent andpleasant savour. O sirs, there is such a blessed16savour in this Plant of renown, as has cast aperfume through all the Paradise above, and -the church militant below, which is called,‘Gad’s vineyard,’ Isa. v. O sirs! do ye find anything ©f the scent of this Plant?—1 can tejl you,if ever you have been favoured with a smelt ofit, you Have been madej:© cry out, “ Because of jthe savour of thy good Ointments, thy Name is |as ointment poured forth, therefore do the virginslove thee. “The believer find a scent about him,he draws a savour Ircm him. What is the design jof hs ministers, but to cast abroad his scent, And |it is by this we win sculs. They that cast «ut,.and drop the Plant of renown out of their ser¬mons, no wonder their sermons stink; and theyshali stick through eternity, that throw Christout sf their sermons- The great business of mi¬nisters is to • cast forth the scent of Christ topeople. I shall read you to this purpose, it is*1 Cor. ii 14,—16. ‘ Now, thanks be unto|God, who always causeth us to triumph in |Christ. And makefh maniust the savour of hisknowledge by us in everyplace. For we are •unto God a sweet savour of Christ, • in them ^that are saved, and in them that perish, To the Ione, we are tke savour of death unto dentb; and'to the other, the savour of life unto life, and ;who is sufficient for these thing's.“ Whoisable^to tell the sweet savour that is in him. But,i. 7. This blessed Plant is renowned for his lshadow. Song ii. 3. “ I sat down under his .jshadow with great delight." The shadow of!the Plant of renown. You are all sitting orI standing there; but are you sitting under thePlant of renown, Jonah's gouard, that did himl service against the scorching heat of the sun,that was like to take away his life, alas/ soon■I failed him; for God sect a worm and smste it,(that it withered So the worm of death willu soon smite and wither you and me. O get ini under the shadow of this Plant of renown, and! ye are secured against death and vindictive wrath( for ever. Get in under his shadow, the shadowof intercession, the shadow of his power, theilshadow of his providence, the shadow of hisjJfaithfulness. O sit down under his shadow, andi.»‘you will find shelter there against all deadly.diJWhatever blasts come you will find safety there.’/Would you be shadowed from the fear of death,(the king of terrors to many! O, if you would bashadowed against the awful terrors of deathrandGod s vengeance, get under this shadow, andyou are safe.7. This Plant is renowned for his stature. Heis a high Plant, he is a tall Plant. Yoy see theheavens above you, which are very high, butthese are but Creeping things in comparison ofthis glorious Plant, who is, “ The high andlofty One, that inhabiteth eternity, "Toucannever see his height: your eye wiil look highand your thought will reach higher, but neitheryour eye, nor thought, wiil reach unto him. He18is taller thaa any of the cedars in'God’s Lebanon,Eye hath not seen, nor hath ear heard, neitherhath it entered into the heart of man, to think ‘of the height and glory of this Plant of re- $n«wn.Lastly, This Plant is renowned for his extent.He is not only a high, but he is also a broadPlant. He was planted in the first promise inParadise; he spread through the Old Testamentchurch; he came the length of filling the landof Judea ; and at length this Plant has spreadamong us. And O that l could spread himamong you. and open the leaves of this Plant,to take you in: He is a broad Plant, he will jserve you all We read of the Tree of life beingon every side of the river. There is a great"river betwixt us and heaven, and that is death;and we are all running to this river of death.As one well observes on the place, this Tree isin the raiddl? of the river He is on this side of |time, and he is on that side of time Now,this Plant is cm both sides of the river. Though !you were going to the wastes of America, youwill find him there as well as here, if you havebut the art of improving him. And this Plant’will spread himself .through all kingdoms. “ The 'earth shall be filled with the knowledge'of theLoid, just as the waters cover the Sea.” He ;will n«t only fill the earth, but the whole"heavens throughout eternity. O! he is a broadPlant,, that will extend himself both to heaven19id earth! This shall serve for the second thingProposed, viz, To shew, that • this Plant ishdeed a renowned Plant.I The third thing I proposed, in the prosecutionf this doctrine, was concerning the raising or(I pbringing of this Plant. You see it is no otherthan the great God, that raised up this Plant.| find Che great Jehovah glorying in his skill andpisdom,in raising up this Plant for the use ofhe ehurch, Psal, txxxix. 19. Says the Lordlere, 1 have laid help upon one that is mighty,have exalted one chosen • out of the pepple*have raised up David, my servant; with thetoly oil have 1 anointed him.” You see he jusciories in it, that he had raised up this gloriouslant (?'f renown. I will tell you a few thingsith reference to the raising Up of this blessed’lantH e was raised up in the counsel of God'sace from eternity. The Trinity sat in coun-:il anent the upbringing of hira; ‘The counsel ofleace was between them both,’ Zech. vi. 13."—The Father and the Sen agreed upon it, that inthe fulness of time the Son should come into dieworld. But then, aga:n,S. He was raised up in the first promise to20Adam and Eve. Till this Plant was discovered !to them, they were like to run distracted. And Jindeed, sirs, if Christless sinners saw wherethey were, and the wrath of God that is hang¬ing over their heads, they would be ready torun distracted, till a revelation of Christ was!made to them. All the promises prophecies,types, and doctrines, of the -Old Testament,were the gradual springings of this Plant, Iuntil,3. His actual manifestation in the flesh,when, in the fulness of time, he appeared. Imight here mention many things which timewill not at present permit, and therefore shall joniy" observe, that this glorious plant was also £raised up even in his death, at his resurrection,;,in his ascension into heaven, wheri he was set!down on the right hand of the Majesty on Ihigh, after he had by kimself- purged our |sins.And, Lastly,.He is raised up in the revelation of the |everlasting gospel. And thus we are en--Jdeavourhig to raise him up in the word-1and sacrament this day. As Moses lifted ■?;21; up the serpent in the wilderness,si are endeavouring to lift up the pi: renown, ‘ That whosoever believeth ishould not perish, but have everiastinji Amen.so weant ofn himlife.Lfil1 heav;n arise, let earth appear;Said the Almighty Lord;The heay’n amse, the earth appear’d.At his creating word.Thicji darkness brsoded o’er the deep,God said, “ Let there be light;’’The light shone forth with smiling ray,Aud scattered ancient night.He bade the clouds ascend on high;The clouds ascend, and bearA wat’ry treasure to the sky,And float upon the air.The liquid element belowWas gathered by his hand;The rolling seas together flow.And leave the solid laud.With herbs, and plants, and fruitful trees,The new-formed globe he crown’d;Ere there was rain to bless the soil,Or sun to warm the ground.23Then high in heav’n’i resplendent archHe plac’d two orbs of light,He set the sun t© rule the day,ihe onooii to rule the night.Next, fro;si the deep th’ Almighty King,Did vital beings frame;Fowls of the air of every wing,And fish of every name.To ail the various bruial tribes.He gave their wond;rous Birth;At once the lion and the wormSprung from the teeming earth.Then, chief o'er all his works below,At last was A da n made;His Maker s Image bless'd his soul.And glory crown'd his head.Fair in ch‘ Almighty Maker's eye.The whole creation stood.He viewed the fabrick he had rais'tj;His word pronounced it good.Naked as from the earth we came,And entor'd life ait first;Naked we to the earth return,And mix with kindred dust.■Whate er we fondly call our owf|,Belongs to heav ns great Lord;The blessings lent u* for a dayAre soon to be restored.24‘Tis God that lifts our comforts high,Or sinks them in the grave;He gives; and, when he takes away,He takes but what he gave.Then, ever blessed be his name,His goodness swell’d our store;His justice but resumes its own;’Tis ours still to adore.