THESTORYOF THEWICKED LIFE AND HORRID DEATHO FDr. JOHN FAUSTUS.SHEWING,How he fold himfelf to the Devil, to havepower for 24 years to do what he pleafed.ALSO,The ftrange things done by him and MephostophjlesWITH ANAccount how the Devil came for him at the end o?twenty-four years, and tore him to pieces.G L A S G O W,.PRINTED IN THE SALT M A R K E TV»■>. ^M D C C X CH■iTHEI S T O R YO FA'IV-VT.Dr. JOHN FAUSTUS.Dr. I'auflm' birth and education; -with an accountof hii falling from the Scriptures.DOctor JOHN FAUSTUS was born inGermany; his father was a poor labouringman, not able to bring up his Ton John ; but he hada brother in the fame country, who was a very richman, but had no children, he took a great fan¬cy for his nephew, and refolved to make a fcbo-hr of him ; and in order thereunto, put him to theLatinfchool, where he took his learning extraor¬dinary well; afterwards he put him to the univer-fity to ftudy divinity ; but Fauflus could in no wifefancy that employment; wherefore he betook him-felf to the ftudy of that which his inclination wasmoft for, viz. Necromancy and Conjuration, andin a little time, few or none could outftrip him inthat art; He alfo ftudied divinity, of which he wasmade doflor ; but within a fhort time fell into fuchdeep fancies and cogitations, that he refolved tothrow the fcriptures from him, and betake htm-lelf wholly to the ftudy of Necromancy and Con¬juration, Charms and Soothfaying, Witchcraft, andthe like.CHAP. I.CHAP.mTHE HISTORY O F, See.3CHAP. II.How Dr. Faujlus conjured up the Devil, making himappear in a wood.FAuftns, whofe mind was to ftudy conjuration, thewhich he followed night and day, took the wingsof an eagle, and endeavoured to tiy over the world,to fee and kno v all the fecrets of heaven and earth:In a fhori time he attained power to command the de¬vil to appear before him when he pleafed. One day asDr. Fauftus was walking in a wood near to Wirtem-berg in Germany, and having a friend with him, thatwas defirous to know the Do&or’s ai t, he defired himto let him fee if he could then and there bring Mepho-ftophiles before them ; all which the Do£tor immedi¬ately did, and the devil upon the firfl: call, made fucha noife in the wood, as if heaven and earth would havecome together; the devil made fuch a roaring, as if thewood had been full of wild beads. The Doftor madea circle for the devil, the which circle the devil ranround making a noife, as if ten thoufand waggons hadbeen running upon paved ftones: After this it thun¬dered and lightened as if the whole earth had been onfire. Fauflus and his friend amazed at this noife, andthe devil’s long tarrying, thought to leave his circle ;whereupon the devil made him fuch mufic, the likewas never heard in the world; this fo ravifaed Fauftusthat he began again to conjure Mephodophiles in thename «f the Prince of the Devils, to appear ifi his ownlikenefs; whereupon, in an inftant, hung over his heada mighty dragon. Fauftus calls again after his formermanner, after which there was a cry in the wood, asif hell had been opened, and all the tormented foulshad4 THE HISTORY OFhad been there: Fauftus, in the mean while, alkingthe devil many queftions, and commanding him tofhew many tricks.CHAP. III.How Mephoftophiles came to Dr. FaufluC houfe, and'■ what happened between them.“OAuftus commanded the fpirit to meet him at hisJ- houfe by ten of the clock the next day. At thehour appointed, he came into his chamber, afkingFauftus what he would have; Fauftus told him it washis will and pleafure, to conjure him to be obedientto him in all points of thefe articles, viz.FirJ}, That the fpirit fhould ferve him in all thingshe afked, from that time till his death.Secondly, Whatfoever he would have, he wouldbring him.Thirdly, Whatfoever he defired to know, he fhouldtell him.The fpirit anfwered him and faid, he had no fuchpower of himfelf, until he had acquainted his Princethat ruleth over him ; “ For, faid he, we have rulers“ over us, that fend us out, and command us home,“ when they pleafe ; and we can act no farther than« our power fs, which we receive from Lucifer, who,“ you know, for his pride was thrufi: out of heaven j“ but it is he that commands whole legions of us;“ his kingdom, is under heaven. But, faith the fpirit,“ I am not to tell you any more, except you make“ yourfelf over to us.”Whereupon Fauftus faid, I will have my requeft;but yet 1 will not be damned with you. Then faidtheDr. JOHN FAUSTUS. 5the fpirit, you raufl: not, nor fliall not have your de¬fire, and yet you are mine, and all the world cannotfave you out of my hands. Then faid Fauftus, getthee hence, and I conjure thee, that thou come to meat night. The fpirit then vaniflied, Fauftus then be¬gan to confider how he might obtain his defire, andnot give his foul to the devil.And while Fauftus was in thefe his devilifh cogita'tions, night drew on, and this hellifh fpirit appearedto Fauftus, acquainting him, that now he had ordersfrom his Ptince to be obedient to him, and to do forhim whatfoever he defired, provided he would promifeto be his, and withal to acquaint him firft what hewould have of him ; Fauftus replied, that his defirewas to become a fpirit, and that Mephoftophiles fhouldbe always at his command; that whenfoever he calledfor him, he fliould appear inviiible to all men, andthat he fhould appear in what fhape he plealed. Towhich the fpirit anfwered. That all his defires fhouldbe granted, if he would fign thofe articles, he fhouldhave whatfoever he would wilh or afk for; whereup¬on Dr. Fauftus withdrew, and pricked his wrift, re¬ceiving the blood in a fmall faucer, which curled fofaft, as if it forewarned him of the hellilh aft he wasgoing to commit; neverthelefs he put it over embersto warm it, and writ as followeth :‘ I John Faustus, approved Doftor of Divinity,‘ with my own band do acknowledge and teftify my-* felf, to become a fervanc ro Lucifer, Prince of Sep-‘ tentrional and Orient ; and to him I freely and vo-‘ luntarily give both body and foul ; in confideration,‘ for the fpace of twenty-four years, if I be ferved in‘ all things I fhall require, or which is reafonable by‘ him to be allowed ; at the expiration of which from‘ the date enluing, I give to him all power to do with‘ me'T-YiT'-6THE HISTORY OF* me at bis pleafure; to rule, to fetch and carry me* where he pkafes, body and foul : Hereupon I defy* God and Chrift, and all the .holt of angels and good* fpirits; all living creatures that bear his Aiape, or‘ on whom his image is imprinted ; and to the better‘ flrengtbening the validity of this covenant and a firm‘ agreement between us, I have writ it with my own* blood, and fubfcribing my name to it, calling all the< powers and infernal potentates to witnels, it is my* true intent and meaning.’/Johk Faustus.VSV=V=V UsV^UV^VUIIV^VCHAP.IV.What happened to Dr. Fauftus after the Jlgn'ing cfthe Articles.YT'HEN Fauftus had made an end of his writing,he called Mephoflophiles to him, and deliveredhim the bond ; whereupon the fpirit void him, that ifhe did not repent of what he had done, he Ihouldenjoy all the pleafure his thoughts could form, andthat he would immediately divert him. He caufed akennel of hounds to run down a hare in the hall, andvsnifhed; then a bull danced before Faufius, alfo therewas a lion and a bear which fell to fighting beforeFauflus; and the lion delhoyed the bear; after thatcame a dragon and defiroyed the lion : and this, withabundance of more paftime, did the fpirit preftnt tothe Dcftor’s view, concluding with all manner ot mu-lic, with lorre hundreds of fpirits which came anddanced befor Fauftus : After the mufic was over, andFaufius began to look about him, he faw ten facks fullof filver, which he went to difpofe of, but could not;forDr. JOHN FAUSTUS. 7for none could handle it but himfeif, it was fo hot.This paftime did fo pleafe Fauftus, that he gave Me-phoftophiles the will that he made, and kept a copy ofit in his own hands, the fpirit and Fauftire being agreed,they dwelt together, and the devil was in their hoofe-keeping; for there was never any thing given awayto the poor, which before Fauftus made his contractwas frequently done j but the cafe is now altered.CHAP. V.How Fauflus ferved the Duke of Bavaria.FAuftus having fold his foul to the devil, it was re¬ported among his neighbours, fo that none wouldI keep him company but bis fpirit; which was very fre¬quent with him, and did whatfoevtr was commandedhim, playing merry tricks for to pleafe doctor Fauftus^Not far from Faultus’ houfe lived the duke of Bavaria,S the duke of Saxony and the bifhop of Salifburgh,; whofe houfes and cellars Mephoftophiles ufed to vifit,and to bring the bed of every thing they had : Oneday the duke of Bavaria had invited npoft of the coun-try-gentiemen to dinner, for whofe entertainment therewas abundance of provifirn got ready ; the gentry be¬ing come, and ready to fit down to dinner, in an in*| ftant Mepbodophiles came and took away all with him,! leaving them full of admiration. If at any time Fau-ftus had a mind for wild fowls the Spirit would calljj whole flocks in at the window : Alfo the fpbit didteach Faudus to do the like, fo that no lock or keycould keep them our, the devil alfo taught Faudus tofly into the air, and to a<d many things which are in¬credible, and too large for this fmall book to contain.G H A P.sthe history ofCHAP. VI.How Dr. Fuujius dreamed of hell in his Jleep, and•what he Jaw there.AFter Fauflus had a long conference with his fpi~rit concerning the fall of Lucifer, and the datehere, and condition of the fallen angels, and in a vi-iion or dream, law hell, and all the devils and foulsthat were tormented there ; he alfo faw heil dividedinto feveral cells or deep holes; and for every cell, ordeep ward, there was'a devil appointed to punifh thofethat were under his cultody. Having feen this light,he much marvelled at it; and having Mephoftophileswith him, he diked him what fort of people they were ithat lay in the firft deep pit ? Mepholfophiles told him :they were thofe who pretended themfelves to be phy-licians, and had poiloned many thoufands to try prac¬tice ; and now, faith the fpirit, they have the fame ad-nainidred to them, as they did to others, tho’ not withthe feme efFefl, for they will never die here, faith he.Over their heads was a fhdf laden with gallipots fullof poifqn. Having pall them, he came to a long entry |exceeding dark, where there was a mighty crowd; heafked him what thefe were? the fpirit told him theywere pick-pockets, who loved to be in a crowd when jthey were in the other world, and to content them.fome padders on the high-way, and thofe of that func¬tion. Walking further he faw many thoufands of vint¬ners, and fome millions of taylors, infomuch, that theycould not tell whence to get flowage for them; a greatnumber of pallry-cooks with peels on their heads.Walking furiher, the fpirit opened a great cellar-door,from which aroie a terrible noife", he alked what theyy. ere ? tke fpirit told him, they were witches, £«nd thofethatDr. JOHN F A U S T U S. 9that had been pretended faints in the other world, but} now they did fquabble, fight and tear one another. Notfar from them lay the whoremongers and adulterers,who made fuch a hideous noife, that he was very muchllartled. Walking down a few fleps, he efpied an in-credable number, almofi: hid with fmoke; he alkedwhat they were ? the fpirit told him they were millersand bakers; but good lack, what a noife was there a-mong them, the millers crying to the bakers, and thebakers to the millers for help; but all was in vain, forthere was none to help them. Faffing on further, hefaw thoufands of (hop-keepers, fome of whom he knew,who were tormented for defrauding and cheating theircuflomers. Having taken this profpeft of hell, the fpi¬rit Mephofiophiles took him in his arms, and carriedhim home to his own houfe, where he awaking, wasamazed at what he had feen in his dream. Being cometo himfelf, he afked the fpirit in what place heil -was,and who made it ? Mephoflophiies anfwered, Knoweftthou, that before the fall of Lucifer, there was no hell,but upon his fall, was hell ordained. As for the fubfianceof hell, we devils do not know; it is the wrath of Godthat makes hell fo furious, and what we procured byour fall; but where hell is, or how it is governed, andwhatfoever thou defireft to know,when thou comeft thi¬ther thou (halt be fatisfied as far as we know ourfelves.CHAP. VII.Containing fome Tricks of Dr. Fauflus.DR. Fauflus having attained his defire of his fpirit,had now full power to aft or do any thing what¬foever he pleafed. Upon a time the Emperor had a de¬fire to fee him, and likewife fome of the Dottor’s tricks;whereupon he was requefted by the Emperor, to dofomewhatI o THE HISTORY OFfomewhat to make him merry; hut the Dottor in themean while looking round about him, at laft e'pied aLord looking out at the window, and the Doftor call¬ing his fpirit to help him, he in an indant fadened apair of horns upon the Lord’s head, that he could notget his head in til! Faudus took the horns off again,which v^ere foon taken off invifjb!^: the Lord whomFaudus had ferved fb, was extremely vexed, and re-foived to be revenged on the Doctor, and to that end,lay a mile out of town, for Faudus palling by, he be¬ing that day to depart from the country; Faudus com¬ing by a wood-fide, beheld the Lord mounted upon awarlike hoife, who ran full drift againd Faudus, whoby ths help of his fpirit, took him horfe and all, andcarried him before the Emperor’s palace, and grafted apair of horns on his head as big as an ox’s, which hecould never be rid of, but wore them to his dying day.Audus upon a time, having many Dordors and Mafters of arts with him, went to walk in the Helds,where they tret a man with a load of hay: How nowgood fellow, faith FauOus what lhall I give thee to fillmy belly with hay? The clown thought he had been amad-man to talk of eating hay. told him he fliould fillhis bdly for a penny; to which the Doftor agreed, andfell to eating, and quickly devoured half the load ; atwhich the Doctor’s companions laughed to fee howlimply the poor country fellow looked, and to bearhow heartijy he prayed the Doclor to forbear Fauduspi-ying the poor man, went aw y and before the mangot near home, all the hay that the Doftor had eatenwas in the cart, which made the couatry fellow admire.CHAP. VIII.How Dr. Faujlus ate a load of hay.CHAP.Dr. JOHN F A U S T U S. i‘iCHAP. IX.Hoiv he /buck a parcel of Jludents blind, that -werefighting together; and how he Jerved a parcel ofClowns who were fir.ging and ranting in an inn.THIrteen fludents meeting with (even more nearDr. Fauftus’ houfe, fell out extremely, firft inwords, and at laft to blows; the thirteen being toohard for the feven, and Dr. Fauftus looking out ofi his window and feeing the fray, and .how much theywere over-match’d, conjur’d them all blind, fo thatone could not fee the other; and in this manner theyfought and fmote one another, which made all thatfaw them laugh : At length the people parted them,and led them to their chambers. They inftantly re¬ceived fight. The Do&or coming into an inn withfome friends, was didurbed by the hallowing and haul¬ing of a parcel of drunken clowns, whereupon whentheir mouths were wide open, he fb conjured them,>' that by no means they could fhut them again ; andi fo all on a hidden there was a deep filence ; and af-j ter they had dared one upon another, without beingable to (peak, thinking they were bewitched, theydropped ohe by one away in a dinking fear, and ne¬ver could be got to the houfe afterwards.CHAP. X.How Dr. Taufius helped a young man to a fair lady,THERE was a gallant young gentleman that wasin love with a fair lady who was of a properperfonage, living at Wirtemberg near the Doftor’shoufe;HMHHi k&Ikk - ..Hrfi-12 THE HISTORY OFhoufe: This gentleman had long fought this lady in tmarriage, but could not attain his defire; and having |placed his afFe&ions fo much upon her, he was ready |to pine away, and had certainly died of grief, had he fnot made his addrefs to the Dofior, to whom he op-1|>ened the whole matter. No fooner had the gentlemantold his cafe to the Do&or, but he told him he need¬ed not fear, for his defire (hould be fulfilled, and hefhould have her that he had fo much defired, and thatthis gentlewoman fhould have none but him, whichwas accordingly done; for Fauflus fo changed the#mind of the damfel, by his damnable pra&ice, that fire |could think of nothing elfe but him, whom before (he phated; and Fauftus’ defire was thus: He gave him aninchanted ring, which he ordered him to put into the 1lady’s hand, or to flip it on her finger, which he did;and no fooner had the the ring, but her heart bur itwith love to him; fne inftead of frowns, could do no¬thing but fmile on him, and not be at reft, till {heafked him if he thought he could love her, and makeher his wife ? He gladly anfwered, with all his heart.So they were married the next day, and all by the helpof Dr. Fauftus.t(i)CHAP. XI.Bo-jj Dr. Faujlus made /even women dance naked irtthe market-place.FAuftus walking in the market-place, faw ftvenwomen fitting all in a row, felling eggs and butter,&c. of every one he bought fomething and departed:No fooner was he gone, but all their eggs and butterwere gone out of their bafkets, and they knew nothow: At laft they were told, that Dr. Fauflus had con-juredfDr. JOHN F A U S T U S. 13ured their goods away ; and thereupon ran fpeedily tothe Do&or’s houfe, and demanded fatisfaftion for theirware: He refolving to make himfeif and the town’saeople merry by his conjuring art, made them return:o their bafkets naked as ever they were born; and hav-ng danced a while at the market-place, every one’soods were conjured into their bafkets again, and theyet at liberty.1 CHAP. XII.lo'u Faufius ferved a country ftllo-w that was driv¬ing fwine. ■iT'XR. Faufius, as he was going to Wirtemberg over-took a country fellow driving an hundred fwine,tihich were very heatj-flrong, fome running one way,$id fome another; fo that the driver could not tell how|i get them along: The Doflor taking notice of it, by1:3 conjuring arr, made every one of them dance upon: leir two hind legs, with a fiddle in one of their fore¬st, and with the other fore-foot they played upon the|ldle, and fo they danced and fiddled all the way theyiitme into Wirtemberg market, the driver of them aile way dancing before them, which made the peopleiionder: After the Do£Ior had finished himfeif withfport, he conjured the fiddles away, and the driver■n offered them to fide, and quickly fo'd them all,took the money; but before he was got out of theiufe, Fauftus had conjured the hogs £)ut of the tnar-■place, and fent them all home to the aforefiaid dri¬b’s houfie. The men that bought them feeing all theI ine gone, flopp’d the man that fold them, and wouldit their money, which he was forced to pay( and fourned home fonowful, and not knowing what todo;*4 THE HISTORY OF<io; bin to his great amazement, found all his fwinein their ftyes.(t) $ tt(t) (*) tt) t SK t t «(t>CHAP. XIII.!Hoiu FaiijQia began to bethink himfelf of the near ap~Mproach of his end.I^Auftus having fpun out his twenty four yearsjwithin a month or two, began to confider vvha»he could do to cheat the devil, but could not find anyl iway to prevent his miferable end, which was now near!whereupon he now cries out to himfelf, ‘ O miferablelwretch that I am, I have now given myfelf to the de lvil for a few years pleafure; to fatisfy my carnal andrdevilifh delires, and now I mull pay full dear; no-ssViamult I have torment without any eafe s Wo is metsfor there is no help for me; I dare not, I cannot l©o;for mercy from God, for I have abandoned him ;have freely denied him to be my God, I have givermyfelf to the devil, to be his for ever; and now mltime is almoft expired ; I have had my defires; mifilthy lufis have been fatisfied, and I mult be tojmented for ever and ever.’sA neighbour of his, a godly old man, hearing of bway of living, in compalfion to his foul came to bin >and with tears befought him to have more regard t Hr,his precious foul, laying before him the promifes r ;:<k;God’s grace and mercy, freely offered to all repentir:fnners, and Ipoke fo feelingly, that Fauftus ftied teaipnd promifed to try to repent. This good man was ifoontr gone, but Mephoftophilcs.found him penfivchis bed, and muttering what bad happened, beganreproach him with breach of covenant to his Lord Icifer, and thereupon almoft twitted his .neck behiihim, which rvade him cry out lamentably, threareniiDr. JOHN FAUSTUS. i?to tear him in pieces unlefs he renewed his obligation,which for fear with much forrow he did, in a mannerthe fame as the former,which he confirmed by the latter.CHAP. XIV.Auftus’ full time being come, the foirit appearedto him, and fhewed him his writing, and told himthat the next night, ti e devil would fetch him away,which made the Do&or’s heart ake: But to divert him-felf, he fent for fume Dofiors and Mafler Batchrlorsof Arts, and other fiudenrs to dine with him, for whombe provided great (lore of varieties with mufic, and thelike ; But all would not keep up his fpirits, for thehour drawing near, whereupon his countenance chang¬ing, the Doctors and Matters of Aits inquired of himthe reafons of his melanchoiinefs? To which Fa u ft usanfwered. My friends, you have known me thefe manyrefs; I have been a great conjurer, which devilifh artI obtained of the devil: And for to obtain power todo whatever I pleafed, I fold myfelf to the devil fortwenty-four years time; which full rime being out thisnight, makes me full of horror: I have called you, myfriends, to fee this my dreadful end ; and I pray letmy miferable death be a warning to you all, how youitudy that dreadful art of conjuring : for if once youbegin it, a thoufand to one but it will lead you to theevil, whither I am this night to go, whether I will ornot. They hearing of this fad ftory, blamed him forconcealing it fo long, telling him, if he had made themacquainted before, they thought it might have beeaHsvj Fauftus was warned of the fpirit to prepare forhis end.prevented ■-16 THE HISTORY OF, &c.prevented: Fie told them he had a defire feveral timesto have difclofed this intrigue, but the devil told him,that if he did, he would prefently fetch him away: Healfo told them he had a defire to join with the godly,and leave off that wicked courfe, but immediately thedevil ufed to come and torment him, &c. But now faidFauflus, it is but in vain for me to talk of what I didintend, for I have fold myfelf to the devil, body andfoul is his. No fooner had he fpoken thefe words, butfuddenly it fell a thundering and lightening, the likewas never heard; whereupon Fauflus went into rhegreat hall, the Doctors and Matters flaying in the nextroom, intending to hear his end. About twelve o’clockthe houfe fhoek fo terribly, that they thought it wouldhave tumbled down about their heads ; and fuddenly ‘all the doors and windows of the houfe were broken |to pieces, as if all nature had been changed, lo thatthey trembled, and wifhed themfelves elfewhere, whenupon a great clap of thunder, with a whirlwind, thedoors flew open, and a mighty rufhing of wind enter¬ed, with a hitting of ferpents, fhrieks and cries, upQnwhich he lamentably cried out murder, and there was !fuch a roaring in the hall, as if all the devils in hell hadbeen there. When day-light appeared, they took theboldnefs to enter the room, and found his brains beat¬en out sgaintt the wall, all the floor fprinkled with iblood, and his eyes torn out, very terrible to behold;but miffing his body, they went in fearch of it, andfound it on the dunghill, mangled and mafhed to pieces. |So ended this miferabie wretches’ life, forfaking Godand all goodnefs, and giving himfelf up to his impla¬cable enemy, which we hope may Hand, not only as afearful, but lading monument and warning tb others.In refpefl to his funflion, learning and other -qualifi¬cations, his mangled body was decently buried.F INIS.