T H £HREE CRUMP T\VtN7-Bo.OTHERvcl• O' OFiD A M A S C U S.Jpi . i, AN EASTERN TALE.INSTANCEO 3?TURKISH JUSTICE.G L A L G O W,ited by J. & M. RoberiXon3 SalttJjarkct, igrr• ' , Tf , OF SCOTLAND.rtriY'VJTHREE CRUMP TWIN-BROTHERSOF- , ' •' * fcDAMASCUS.UNDER the Caliphat of Watik-bIHah, grand-rfon of Haroun Ajrefgbid, there dwelt al iDamafcus * an old man called Behemrillah, who 'did but juft get a poor livelihood by making Steel-Bows, Swords, Sabres, and Xnifc-Blades. Ofthirteen children which he had by one wife, tendied all in one year; bur the three that remained 1Were lo odd a figure, that it was impoffible tdlook at them without layghing: They were crook-1ed both behind and before, blind of the left eye,lame of the right foot, and fo perfectly like one ranother -in face, fljape, and clothes which they jalways wore the fame with one another, that even |their father and mother fonjetitnes miftook one |for the.other. IOf the three fans of Behemrillah, the elded IWas named Ibad, the RconJ Syahouk, and the I* s third i* Damafcus is a city of Syria, at the foot of Mount Libanus.about forty leagues,from Aleppo. It is mightly reforted to forits Knifes, Bows anti Sabres; The tteel of Daniafous is tn verygreat elleem.HISTORY OF THE THREE, £:c. 3rd Babekan, and thele three little hump back'dothers ffiwr worked" in their fnop but they ferc-for laughing-ftocks to ail the boys and girls is2 town.One day, as the only fen of a rich merchant,tned Mourad, returned from walking with femeI kis play-fellows, finding hmafeif more merryin ufuai, he leaned upon the bulk of the threeumpp, and infulted them with fo much keen-fa that liabekan, who was then at work upon aaife-Blade, loft all patience^ he ran after thofetldren, and fmgling out bis principal enemyf/e him a cut in the belly ;• fent finding that he:s purfued by the mob, he ran into hk ihop andlied to the door after him.As Mourad was dangeroufty wounded, all theenues of Behemrillah’s houie were immediatelycured till the Cady, who was fent for, ftrouid■ come. He repaired thither immediately withs Azzas f, and having broken down the doors,>on their refafel to open them, he entered intoe ihop, and demanded of thofe who had beenitnefles of the adfion that was committed, which'f the three crumps was the murderer? Nobody’>uld affirm that it was one of them more thanje other ; they were fo exa&ly alike that theylere all at a lofs. The Cady examined Ibad, who(fared him that it was not he that had woundede boy, and that he could not tell whither it wasiwhoirk or Babekan ; Syahouk averred the fame:iog. And Babekan, feeing himfelf out of dan-:r, had the impudecce to deny likewife that hejid any hand in the crime.] The Cady was therefore much perplexed whatI to4  —   —— f The Azi.« are a Tort of catchpoies that penerafly r.-torrury the Cadies.4 HISTORY OF THE THREEto do: there could be but one criminal, and hatieemed to be threeand never a one ot the'would own himfelf to be the man : he thought tcould not do better than to inform the King •Damascus of fo fingular an affair. /He parried tlthree crumps before his throne ; and that Priti:having examined them himfelf, without beingble to find out the truth, gave command, in qrd.to difeover it, that each of them fhould havehundred haifinadoes upon the foies of his feeThey began with Syahouk, and afterwards pnceeded to Ibad ; but both ,of them being ignorawhether Babekan was the criminal or no, fb mutrefemblance there jvas between them, they eodtrcd the baffinado without giving the King adclearer Information than he had before. Babekrafterwards received his .quota of ftripes ; but bing judge in bis own cuufe, he did not think ito betray himfelf i he made the moft earned pr«teftations of his innocence, and the King n<knowing which was the murderer, and unwillirto put to death two innocents with oye criminswas contented with banifhing them all three fraDamafcus.for ever.Ibad, Syatniuk and Babekan were obligedcomply with this ftntence immediately.’ Thedeparted from the city and having confideriwhat they fhould do, Ibad and Syahouk were etireiy for keeping together j but Babekan haVitrepresented to them, that let them go where th<would, lb long as they were together they fhoitalways be the jsft of the public, and that if thiwere lingle they would each be infinitely lefs afervefl; this reaibn prevailed over the opinionthe other two. They- parted from each othtand taking every one a different road, Babeka"after having travelled through fevcral townsCRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. -ria, cam’s at length to Bagdad *, where Watik-lah, the grandibn of Karoua Arrefchid,. helde fapreme power.This little crooked wretch uaderlbnding thatere was in that city a cutler of tolerable good' pure, went to him for employment; he told: m he was of Daraai’cus, and that he had a par-icufar art in tempering of fteel -foe catier* v5itsrilling to-try if Babekan was as great'a mafter' ■ his trade as he boafred himfelf to De, he tookim into his fhop, and finding indeed that no-' nly the fteel he-tempered -was as hard and Iharp’ gain, as what was commonly ufcd at Bagdad,' mt alib that his work was much more neat a.<dterfeft, he retained him in his fervlce, ahd cn-ertained him with great kindnefs, that he-mightteep him to himfdf. 1 : *Ihrom that time his fhop was always crowdedwith cuftomers. The little crump coukl not Workfaft enough ; the cutler fold his BowS r.ad SabresaThis own price; and if he had not been a drunk¬en extravagant for, he might have made a veryconfider-abiefo’-tune.•Kabekan had Icarce been two'years at Ibgdad,when his mafter fc]l very ill of a great’ debauchhe had made! his body was fo’worn and waftedby wine, brandy and women, that all the cate ofhas wife and Babekao could not fave his life : hedied in their arms.Though Nohoud, which wa<jr the name of thecutler’s wife, was very far front being handfome,Babekan had neverihelcfs been in loVe with Iktfor fome time; and his mafter’s death being a fairopportunity to declare his paiiicn, hofwithout anyhchtatiojt* Bagdad is a city ft Afia, feated upon the Tygri*, in t».2Province cf Hrt-rarc. It has long been the-piaee-of abode of theCaliphs of JEgypt.6 HISTORY OF THE THREE .hefitation made the widow acquainted with hifeutiments. -She was not much alarmed at then#for be&^es that his out-of-the-way figure began t'<grow familiar to her, (he further confidered thdif Bahekan left her, the (hop would prdently loiits reputation, and that the little money (lie ha;fcved during her hufband’s life, would foon tfpcnr. Thefe reafons induced her, like a fenfiblwoman as (fie was,- to make Babekan a promife omarriage, lo foon as (he*could do it with decencyShe kept her word with him feme months afterwards; and Babekan, not fatisfied with his cut|licg trade alone, whereby in a little time he goea great deal of money, fell Jikewife into the wayof fJHng brandy of dates, which he had a veryconficlcrsible demand for.The correfpondence that Babekan had in fevc-ral towas of the eafi, came to tne ears of his twobrothers, who, after having lived for aim of! fiveyears in the utmoft poverty,, were at lad met to¬gether at Derbent here'they learnt to theirgreat joy the prpfperity of Babekan, and notdoubting but he would affift them in their want,they rcfolvcd to go together to Bagdad; they wereno foonet’ arrived there than they fept for him bya poor woman who had taken them into her houleout of charity.Babekan was prodigioully fnrptifed at the- fightof his brothers : Have you forgot, find he to themin a violent pajlioc, what happened to us. at Da-m a feu 3 ? have you a mind to make me t?re jeft ofthis city too ? I fwear by my head that you (halldie beneath the cudgel, if you dare to come nearmy houje, or Bay in Bagdad another hour.Ibad1 Derbent is a town of the province of Servan in Periia, atfhe foot of mount Caucjfiis. ' NI CRUMP TWIN-BROTH£P-S. 7I bad and 'his brother were amazed ,at a recep-on (6 little expefted ; it was in vain they repre-nted Their milery To Babekan, and *rtiewed himis moft able ft iubtnifiion •, he continued unmce-d ; and all they could obmtn of him was ten orwelve pieces of gold, to help them to fettle iname other town.Bab than being returned home, his wife pereeiv-:d an alteration in his conntenance : (he alked himhe caufe of it, and was anfwered that it pr^ceed-;d from the arrival of his two brothers; but thatApprehending at Bagdad the fame railleries he hadbom at Damalcns, he had forbid them his houfe,and obliged them to leave the town.Nohoud to 00 purpofe rein on fir a red to hint thocruelty of what he had done; her hufhand's furywas but iacreafed by her perfuahons. 1 find, foyshe, you will be tempted to entertain them herefduring the journey I am to make to Balfora •, buttake notice, 1 would advife you, tha; if yon do,it (halt coft you your life. I fry no more: lookto- it mat you do not difbbcry me.Babekan’s wife was too well acquainted withher hu(banti’s violent humour to contradift him}(he had often enough felt the weight of his arm.She promifed mod puoftually to execute his or¬ders ; but thole prornifes did not make Babekanctify; he pafled the whole night without taking awink of deep, and returning next morning atbreak of day to the woman5s houfe where his bro¬thers had lodged, he heard to his great fatisfaftionthat they were gone from Bagdad, with an inten¬tion never to (ee it again.I bad and Syahouk were indeed departed with arefolution to go feek their fortunes eliewhere; butthe latter falling fick about two days journey fromBagdad, and they finding themfclvcs obliged to* flay• 3 HISTORY OF THE THREEiiay there alinaft three weeks, their money wa»ooa gone, and they reduced>to their former want,not knowing how to live, in i'pite of the leverprohibition they had received from Babel^n, the]relolved to go back to Bagdad : they went to thei.former landlady, and begged her to go once manto thfcir brother, in order to perfuade him, if flucould, to take them into his houfe, or at leaft tcgive them a little money to defray rtie charge pirheir journey.The poor woman could not refute to do them!that ter vice ; lire went to Babtkao’s houfe, andbeing informed at his fhop that he had been gonetwelve days to Balfora, to fetch feveral bales ofmerchandizes, (he returned immediately to tellthis news to her guefts, who were fb hard prefledby their neceflity, that they went themielves toimplore the affiilance of their brother’s wife.NoteouJ could not help knowing them; theyrefembled Babekan lb eetafliy, that thefe was nobod-’ but who would have mijlaken each of themapart for him ; but though he had To ftriftly com-manded her not to let them into her houfe,- filewas touched with their poverty and tears; iheentertained them, and let fome viftuals beforethem. It was now dark night; and Ib.id andSyahouk had Icarce fatisfied their firft hunger,when fomebody rattled at the door; the voice ofBabekan, who was not to have returned in threedays longer, was a tbnnder-bolt to his wife amibrothers; they turned as pale as death, and No-houd, who did not know where to put them, toconceal them from her hufband’s fury, thought atlate of hiding them in a little Cellar behind live orfix tubs of brandy.Babekan grew impatient at the door ; he knock¬ed louder and louder every moinent; at lall it wasopenedCRUMP TWIN-MOTHERS. *liponed, and. fufpe&ing his wife of having foinf;.illfent hid in a corner, he took a fticiL and beat(ter -{bundly ; afterwards, his jealoufy inducinghim to fearch all the boufe, he vffited every holeith the.greateft care, but never tho.-^ht bfloak-ig behind the brandy tubs, tbbu«h he went intohe cellar. At left, the hutnp-backed churl hnv-made no difeovery,little calm i helocked all the doors * taking the keys according to[his csftots; went to bed with Nohoud; and didnot go out al! next day till toward the evening-prayer, telling his wife be (herald fup with ?. friend,iHis back was hardly turned, when Nohoud rarimmediately to the,cellar ; but (be was-in the ut-'tnoft furprife at findiu^r Ib id and Syshouk withoutthe lead ftgns of life; her perplexity iticreak-d.when (he confrdered (he had no way'of‘gettingrid of the two bodies ; but taking her felbiutibnat once, (he (hut up the (hop,' ran to look towardsthe bridge of Bagdad for a foolifh porter of Sivii-hilTar % and having told him that a little hump¬backed msrx who c*.me to her houle to buy fbmeknives, having died there (uddeniy, (lie feared (be(hould be brought into trouble :about it'; Ate prof¬fered him four fequins of gftld, rf he would puthim into a fack, and throw him into the Tygrts.The porter accepted her offer ; and Nohbud hav¬ing taken’ him home with her, gave him two fe-quins byway of earneftj treated him ivith drink' till it was night, pot only one of the crumps intohis (hek, helped him up with it, and promiled togive him the other two Tcquins when (he was hirehe had performed his commiffion.The porter, with the crump upon his (boulders,being* Sivri.hiflar is a town ( t Natolia, the ih'uabkanti of which:e famous ior their fiwpikity.iq BISTORT? OF THE THREEbeing come to the bridge of Bagdad, opened hmlick, Ihot his load into tlje river, and runningback to Nohoud, ’Tis done, faid he laughing, yourman is fifh-meat by this ticne; give me the twofequins you. promifcd rae. Nohoud then wentbehind her coqnr-r, under pretence of fetchinghim the money ; but ftarting back with a loud cry,file pretended - to fall into a fwooa. The porterftrangely'furprifed, took her into his arms: afterhaving fetched her to herfelf, he enquired thecaufe of’ her fright: Ah, faid the cunning huffy,aftiog her part to a miracle, go in there, and you jwill loon know the caul'e. The porter went in,was ftrtici:. as mute as a filh, when by the glim¬mering of a Limp he perceived the fame bodywhich ha thought he had thrown into the Tygris.. The more nan awly he viewed it, the greater wasbis furprife. I am iure, faid he to Nshoud, l didthrow that plaguy crooked rsfeal over the bridge;how then, could he come hither ?■ there muff bewitchcraft in it: however, continued ho, let’s tryif he -wiU get out again; the:’ having put the fe-cond crump into the fame lack, he curried httq tothe ■’bridge, and choofiog out the deepeft part ofthe Tygris, opened his fuck, and threw in poorSvahouk. He was again returning merrily to No-Jhoud, npt'doubting that his burden was gone tothe bottom, when turniitg the corner of a ftreet,he law cording towards him a man with a linthornia his hand. He was ready to drop down,deadwith fear at the fight of Babekan, who was goinghome ^a little overtaken with wine. He doggedhim, however a little while, and finding that hetook the ready way to the houle from which hehad fetched the two crumps, he feiz'ed him furi-oully by. the collar: Ah, rogue! cried he, youthink to make a fool of me.all night, do you,'* youiCRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. ft ^fiave fcrved me this trick twice already : but if youd’cap« the third time, I will be hanged.: then,being a lufty fellow, he threw his fack over hisihoulder/, add forcing him into it in ipite of histeeth, tied the mouth of it with a h'rong rope,'and running direftly to the bridge, hung in poorBabekan, fack and all: he walked a pretty whilethereabouts, for fear the crump (hould get out a-gain to cheat hisa, of his reward, bur hearing henoi!e returned to the cutierefs to demaaa the othertwo fequins, which five had prora:fed him. Denot fear his coming any more, laid he, the mo¬ment he fat his foot into the hoafe: the wag hada- mind to make me his fport fo'r ever, I think;Ire only pretended ra be dead, that he might jfiakcme trot my legs oil; but I have done his. bufindsfc« him now fo thoroughly that he will never■come to your home anv more, I will engage forhim. ■' # 'Nohoud, furp riled at this difeoarfe, deli red himto tell her what he meant by it. Why, repliedhe, I had again thrown this damned ore rap intothe Tygris, when as I was returning to you formy money, I rhet him again about five or fix. ffreersoff with a lanthorn in his hand, fioging and roar¬ing under pretence of being drank. I was (o hor¬ridly enraged with him, that laying hold of him Eforced him into my fack in fpite of all his rofii'-fance, tied it with a cord, and To threw- him intothe Tygris, from whence I believe he can neverreturn, unlefs he be the Daggial * bimlelf.Babekan’s wife was in an unparalleled Tbrprifeat this news. Ah! firrah, faid (he, wlrat hiv£you done? you have now drowned my bufband,•and have.you the impudence to think I will re¬ward■ TT.c L’nggial is the Antiihrift of tiie Mao-xsetaM.T3 ' HISTORY OF THE THREEward you for this murder ? no, no *, T will revengehis death, and go tifis moment to make my eom-jplainr to the Cady.The porter gave very little heed to all her ,threats ; he thought (lie did this only to avoidpaying him the money (he had promised him.'Without jefting, faid he, give me the two (equinsI have fo lawfully earned ; you have made a foolof me long enough already : I nn^l be gone home.Nohoud refufiqg to pay him; I fvvear by myhead, replied he in a violent rage, if you do notgive me the two faquins this moment, I will fendyou to keep company with that crooked monfierI have thrown into the river. Now, added he,difpute my payment if you dare: I am not fitch afool as you"take me for; I will have my moneyprefer.fly, or I will make the houfe too hot to heldvou. The more ,the porter inffied-upon his mo¬ney, the more noife Nohoud made; he grew wearyof fo much refirtaoce, and taking her by the hair,he polled her into the ftreet; and was really go¬ing to throw her into the Tygris, when the neigh¬bours ran to her affiftance.The porter upon, this took to his heels, verymuch in dudgeon at having, as he thought, beenfo. grofly put upon, and was going towards thebridge in his way home, when he met three men,each with a load upon his fnoulder, as far as hecould dflbern in the dark. He that went firft tookhim by the arm : Where are you going at thistime of night, faid he ? What’s that to you, faidthe porter very fnappifhry; I am going where Ipiealef You are greatly deceived, anfwered theGranger, for you (hall go where I pleafe? take thisbundle off my head, abd walk before me.The porter, (urprfied at the command, wouldhave refilled ; but that man having (hook at him. ' . v, a fabreCRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. • 13(a ftbre four fingers broad, and threatened to cut; off bis bead if he did not obey that moment, heiwas forced to take up the load and go in companywith the other two, wheieof one feemed a ibtve,and the other a fifherman. They had not walkedten ftr»ets when they came to a little door, whichwas prefently opened by an old woman: they patfed through a long paffage very dark, and arrivedat bill in a magnificent hall: but what was the-porter’s amafement, when by the light of aboveforty tapers with which it was illuminated, he fawthe crooked brothers he had thrown into the Ty-gris, two of whom were upon the (boulders of the(lave and the dilhertnan, and the third upon hisown head ; he was feized v.'ith fuch terror, thathe began to (hake all over his body. He was moret^eroughly convinced .than ;evc.t, that fp extraor¬dinary a thing could be imputed ro nothing, butconjuration-: but recovering a little from his fright.The Devil take this cur feu crump-backed, one-eyed fon of a whore, cried he in a very comicaltone, I believe I thall do nothing all night butthrow him into the river, and not get rid of himat laft: the raical was fo malicious to come backagain twice to hinder me from having the fequinsthe cutler woman promifed me ; and here I findhim again, with two others befides, not a farthingbetter than himfelf. But, fir, continued he' ad-dreffiug himfelf to him that leemed the matter ofthe houfe, lead me, I bcfeech you, that fabre ofyours but for a moment; I will only cut off the'rt-heads, and then go throw them all three into theTygris, to fee if they will follow me again. I amlb horrid unlucky to day, that I am fare the De’Vwill carry them back either to the cutler’s houleOr mine, do what l will.The potter having finifhed this fpeech of his,theV '14 DISTORT t)F THE THREEthe Caliph, Watik-bHlah, for if was he hi-ftifeiF,that by the example of Haroun Arrr£hid» hiagrandfather, waiked out very often in the night¬time in the ftreets of Uagdad, fo fee what p ified,and to be capable of making a jadgertient hitiifeifhow the people liked his government; this Caliph,I fay, who wa« difguifel like a merchant, was inthe utmoff furprife at thfcfe Words of the porter’s :he had been out that night with his prime Viziar,and having met a fitlvirman he aflted him whitherhe went r I am going, a offered he, to draw tipmy nets, %vhich l have left ever fince yeftSrdaymorning in the Tygris. And what will you dowith the fifh yen catch ! replied the Caliph. To¬morrow, faid he, I will go felt it in the marketof Bagdad, to help to maintain my wife and threechildren. Will you bargiin with me for yr*urwhole draught ? replied Watik-biUah. With at 11my heart, anfwered the fifherftum. Wdf, faidthe Caliph, there are ten feqnins of .gold for it;will that fat is fy you? the fi "her man was fo. amaz¬ed at fttch a niece of gene;ofity» that he altnoftimagined he was in a drCarn : but puftisg th'e fe^qnins in his pocket, my lord, replied he tranfport-cd, if 1 were to have 'as much for every draught,I Paouid foon be richer and more powerful thanthe fovereigo commander of the faithful.The Caliph fmiled at this companion: he wentto the fhore of the Tygris, entered into the fiiher-man’s boat, and, with his Viziar, having helpedhim to draw up his nets, he wa<. very much amaz¬ed at finding in them the two little crumps ofhhtmafeus, and a Pack in which was the third.An adventure fo furprifing, ftruck him withadmiration. .Since this draught belongs to me,v laid he to the filberm^n, who was as much fur-prifed as himfelf, I am refolded to carry it homewithCRtTMP .TWIN-BROTHERS. rjwith me; but you muft lend us a hand. Thatman had received too great marks of the Caliph'sliberality to make the ieaft fcfuple of obeying him ;the Viziar and he took the one Ibad, and the o«ther Syahouk by the feet, and threw them on theirfhould^rs; and the Clliph himleif having fhoul*dered the fack in which was Babekan, they turn¬ed back to go to .the palace, when they met theporter, who had a few tnoffietKs before, throwhthe three brothers into the Tygris.As _ V/atik-biilah dropping wet with thewater that ran out of the lack, he flopped theporter, and having forced him to cafe him of hisburden, he conducted him to a houfe which ad¬joined to his palace. There it was, that the- por¬ter of Bagdad, having by the words he fpoke re¬lating to the three cramps, excited the Caliph’scuriofity, he delired him to explain himfelf mofeclearly upon fo whimftcal an adventure.Sir, .replied the porter, this expLlrrati' a yourequired is not (o e.-if.iy m.ide as you imagine. Themore I think of it, the Jefs 1 underftand it; -how¬ever, you (hall have it juft as I think it happenedto me.Dt> yon know, fir, faid the ^rter, the cutler’^wife that lives ?.t the end of the flreet of the jew¬ellers ? No, replied the Caliph. You are no gre^tlofer by the. bargain,- anfwered the portet; ihc isthe mifchievoufdt jade in all Bagdad : I wouldwillingly give the two iequins I am rnafter of tohave but five or fix flaps at her foul chops, for thetrick the witch put uoon me this night; thotigh Iam but poor, I fhould fleep th.e-better for^it. Thiscutler woman then- But flay, fincc you do cotknow her, I"will draw you her picture. Imagine,fir, that you have btiore your eyes a great wither¬ed old woman, with a fkin as black as a. dried'neat’si6 HISTORY OF THE THREEpeat’s tongue; with a iitrie fore head, and eyes fofar funk into her head, that ;tts impoffible to fee(he has any without a telefcope , Her nofe has fogreat t kindnefs for her chin, that they are alwayskifling one another ; and her naouth which exhalesa charming odour like that of hrimftone, is lbwide, that it is not unlike a crocodile’s. Muftnot all this form’ a complete beauty s’ Withoutuouhtj^faid the Caliph, who, though impatient tohear the (lory of the three crumps, almoft diedwith laughing at the porter’s comical ylefryiption ;you are fo excellent a punter, that I fancy .1 feethis cutler woman, and would lay a wager l couldfind her out aoiongft a thoufind. Well then, faysvthe porter, fmce you know her now as well as ifyou had teen her, imagine that you fee this lore-'ly creature covered with a great veil that hides allher perfections, come- to chootc me towards nightat the foot of the bridge from arnoogft five or-fixof my .comrades, and promife me in my eat fourfequins if I Would follow her. The defirc of gainentices, me; I fly towards hef hoiife,‘go'in withher: (Kq throws cfFher v;ih( I am frighted at thefight almoft out of my wits; (he certainly per¬ceives it, and to encourage me, pops into my handa great fiaggon Oi wine. I own, fir, it was ihexcellent, that without inquiring what country itcame from, I emptied the flaggon. Yet 1 couldpot help trembling all the while f drank it: I wasafraid (he had a mind to make me drnok, that themight afterwards debauch me, and get me to fpendthe night with her. rVtd it was not withoutgrounds, that I feared this*, for fhe'carefied meenough to make me believe it. After the wine;(he brought me a great bottle of date brandy, (heamcoroufly pours me out a large glafs full, which, I tipped off without any more a-do then (he pro-CRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. ijpofed to me- Bm, ftay, flay, l think I dranktwo glafles of brandy upon^fr.rther eonfideratiou.fifink Itx ff yon will anlwered the Caliph, Ib^youdo but make an end of yoivr Rory. Hold you methere, lir, cried the potter, one cannot i\iallowdown brandy at that rate neither-, ’twill fly intothe head: I arn half drunk v ith thoie two only,and, you would, have me here, after all that wine-,tope down a bottle of brandy to boot: no. no, ftr,,1 will do no fitch thing', though the fovereigacommander of thp faithful hinvfelf ihouid beg meupon his kaets'to do h. But let as return to ourfhcep So then it wa^ that the cutter woman,facing me grow a little meriy, as one may lay,gave me to mytevllsod, that a Intie crooked man,Vvho came to her houib to buy fbme cutler’s vvare,had died fuddeni.y* in her fkop, and that ieartng-Ihe fhouid be acccfed of having killed him, thewould give the four fequins fhe had promiied me,if I would throw him into the lygvis. I had notdrank io much neither, but that l was reiblved toitiake lure ol the cath. I deiaanded two of theicqntn$ tr earuclh; inc gtrrc them me : i puts lit¬tle cimnp into my lack, does as I was bid, andcomes back to take the reft- of. igy money, when-fhe (hews me again the Very fame mag. I leaveyou to imagine, fir, how mych 1 WuS furprifed.«] put him once more into my lack, carried him a-gain to the bridge, and choofing the rapidpart of the ftream, tofied him in ; and 1 was re¬turning to the cutier’s, when I again met thbcrooked toad with a ianthorn in his hand, andmaking as.if he was drunk. I grew weary of fomuch jeflipg, took hold of him roughly, and pufh-ing hi-.n into my lack in fpite of his teeth, tied upthe month of it, and flung him a third time intothe lygris with my lack and all, imagining that* would18 HISTORY OF THE THREEwould keep him from getting out again. I wenrback to the curler wotnan, and raid her how 1 metthe crump alive, and in what manner I got rid ofhim: but inttead of paying me the two iequios Iexpected, Hie pretended to tear her hair in grief,and threatened to carry me before the Cady tor. having drowned her huiband. 1 never mindedher tears •, but iwore I would have my money,. Imade a bloody noiie about it; the neighbours randn at her cries ; I took to my heels. 1 was goinghome, grumbling in the gizzard very much, whenyou, fir, forced me to take up this lack upon my'head, and bring it hither.Now, lir, continued the porter, you may eafrfygueis the caufe of my fright- when at my arrival"here, I found my led laden w;th the fame manthat 1 had three times flung into the Tygr'u, andbeheld alfo two others fo 'ike him, that it is im-pcilible to dhtinguUh- between them but by theirclothes.Though, the Caliph could net fee into the bot¬tom of ihis adyci^rt-c, he took abundance.of plea-fufe in hearing die porter’s Itory Hi on havingviewed the three brothers a little more narrowly,he bought he.perceived in them feme figns of life,and lent immediately for a phyfkian i he camefbpn afterwards, a no finding that Ibad and Sya-houk threw up with the water they had Swallowed?a great deal of brandy, he did not doubt, as in¬deed it was true, but that their dr unkennels wasthe occaflon of their being thought dead. As forBabckan, nothing but want of air had almofl: faf-focated him ; but as’ foot) as his head was out ofthe lack he recovered by degrees ; fo that in halfan hour’s time his brothers and he were entirelyout of danger.Never was any body fo amazed as Babekaa wasCRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. 19at the fight ot his brothers, who were laid uponfopha’s. He aiiiioft cracked his e^e-itMOgs withflaring at them, and cou!d not • pafljjjiy CvUiceivehow he came into that Itrangc place .vith them.He 1'uflersd hicnielt to bc'Podreflld without utter¬ing a Angle word, while the ia.ne- was done toIbad and Sj' ihouk.The Caiiph having caulcd the three crumps tobe carried into different chan.litrs, had them putto bed and locked up. Lb-a he lent .iway theiidurmao, and having ordered the Vizaar to keepth.e porter, and to ule hi^ with gr*at kit\dnets, heprepared to divert hunTejl at the txpence ot thecrooked brothers and the curler w omea, whom hearretted next morniLg by the break of day.To heighten his diverfiou, the C. liph” causedto be made that, night two fairs' of clothes ex-a<fl!y iifte that which Babekan wope when he'wasthrown into the Tygris. Hd ordered them to beput upon Ibad and Syahouk, vhofe drunken fitw'as quite over, and being ah dretted exaftty .like,he placed them behind three different pieces ofhanging in a magnificent ball of tire palace, andgave orders that they Ovauld be dilcovered uponhis making a cert.^n fign.The Viziar, who, with the porter and feverajguards, had been early in the morning to arifflthe cutler’s wife, brought her into the hall, wherethe Caliph was already placed upon his . tnrone.,He examined her With relation to what patted be- .tween her and' the porter. She told him all thathad happened without concealing a tittle of thetruth,, and feemed very much concerned at theiofs of her hulbasd. lint, laid the Caliph, is not*his a made ftory that you tell me ? how is it pot'- ^.Able thefe three crooked brothers fhould be fb ex- 'a^ily alike that the porter fhould be deceived bythem ?so HISTORY OF THE THREEthem ? Ah, tny lord, replied Nbhoud, he was halfdrunk when I employed him; and bel^des, myhufbnnfl an J his brothers refemble one another lbpeifeTiiy, that if they were drelied in the fame• iothes, I hardly-think l myfejf could be able todihinguith one from the other. That would bepleal’ant, indeed, fdd the Caliph, clapping hishands •, I Ihould be glad to be ipettator of fuchan inierview.This was the lignal Watik-biHah was to givefor the crumps to appear. The pieces of hang¬ing were immediately pulled up, and the cutlerefswas ready to die with fear at the fight. O heav¬en ! cried ihe, ■what a prodigy is this! do thedead come again to life ? is this an Hkrffioo, mylord, and are my eyes faithful tellimcnies of whatI fee? You lec right, replied Watik-billah j oneof thefe three is your hufband, and the other twoare his brothers ; you muff choofe out your ownfrom among them. View them well; but I for¬bid them, upon pain of death, to fpeak or makethe leaft fign. .Nohosd, in the ntmcfV perp’exity, examinedthem one after another; five could not diitipguifhher' hufbatid : and the U'ai-ph, ^vho was as muihat a Iclb to know them as (he, ordered him ofthe three' that was B.ibekan to come and 'embracehis wife,, was very much iurprH’ed to fee the threecrumps all ar once throw their arms round herneck, and each of them affirm him I elf to be herhufbaruhIbau and Syahouk were not ignorant that theywere in the prelence of the fovereign commanderof the faithful •, but whatever reipeff they owedhim they thought they could not be revenged ofBabekau better, than by trying to pafs for him ;and this latter got nothing'by his rage and paffioaCRUMP TWIN-BROTHERS. vifor his two brothers obflinately per lifted ia rob¬bing him of his name.The Caliph could not help laughing at thiscomical conteft of the three crumps but havingat length reafl&med his gravity ; There would beno fuch difputs among you, faid he, which (houldbe Babekah, if yon knew that I want to diltingnilhhim only to give him a thoufand ballinadoes forbis cruelty to his brothers, and for his forbiddinghis wife to entlhuin them in his abitnce.Watik-billah pronounced thefe words in fb fe-vere a tone, that Ibad and Syahouk thought it hightime to give over the jeft : If it be fo, my lord,faid each of them feparately, we are no lopgerwhat we pretended to be, with a defign to pucilhour brother for his ill ufage of us : if there areany blows to he received, let him receive them,for they are no more than he defervcs : as for ys,my lord, we iifiplore your generofltv, and we arein hopes that your augulf majefly, whb pever fuf-fers any to depart unfatisRed, wi’l have-the good-ne(s to alleviate our mifery and want.The Caliph then threw his eyes upon Bakekao,whom he faw in the greateft confufion. Well,faid he to him, What hml thou to fay for thyfelf ?Potent King, replied Babekan, with his face prof-trated to earth, whatever punifhment I am to lookfor from your juftice, I am neverthelefs the huf-band of this woman ; my crime is ftill the greater,in that being the only caufe of the banilhment ofmy brothers from the city of Damafcus, for amurder of which our relemblance hindered mefrom being known the author, I ought to have letthem participate in my good fortune, as they Ihar-ed in my bad : but if a fincere repentance can ob¬tain my pardon, I offer from the bottom of myheart to give them equal parts of all the money I22 AN IN STANCE OFhave by tny labour gained fincc my arrival here atBagdad; and I hope your majefty will pardon >1.7"ingratitude, upon account of the forrow it givesme to have committed it.The Caliph, who never iutendcif to infliff anypunUhmcnt upon Babekan, was vety well pleafedto fee him in this difpofition; he therefore par-‘ doned him: and being willing that Ibad and Sya-houk, for the pleafure they had given him, fliouldfeel the effe&s of his liberality, he faufed it to bepubl'dhed all over Bagdad, that if there wete anywomen who would marry the two crump-brothers,he wofild gitfe them each two thoufand pieces ofgoldv There were above twenty that were readyto embrace fb confiderablc a fortune *, but Ibad andSy.ihouk having chofen out of that nsmber thofethat they thought would fit them bcff, received ofthe Caliph twenty thoufand fequins more, withwhich they traded in fellowfhip wkh Babekan ;and thefe three ^ brothers fpent the reft of theirdays in abundance of tranquility, under the pro-tefficn of the fovereigu commander of the faith¬ful, who was fo liberal to the porter, that he livedat his eafe ever after, without having any occafionfor continuing his trade.A N ■INSTANCEO FTURKISH JUSTICE.A Grocer of the city of Smyrna, had a fon,who, with the help of the little learning thecountry could afford, rofe to live poft of natb, ordeputy to the Cady, or mayor of the cky, and asfuchTURKISH JUSTICE 23fuch vifited the markets, aad infpecled the weightsand meafnres of all retail dealirs. One day,this officer was going his rounds, the neighbours,who knew enough of his father’s character to fuf-pe£t that he might, (land in need of the caution,advifed him to move his weights for fear of theword : but the old cheat depending on his rela¬tion to the infpeffor, and fure, as he thought,that his fon would not expOfe him to a public af-frpnt,- laughed at their advice, and flood verycalmly at his ihop-doar, waited for his condng.The naib however was well aflured#of the diino-nefty and unfair dealing of his father, and refolv-ed to deteff "his villany and make an example ofhim: accordingly, he ftopt at the door, and laidcoolly to him, “ Good man, fetch out yourweights, that we may examine themI oft-adof obeying, the grocer would fain have put it offwith a laugh, but was foon convinced his fon wasferious, by hearing him order the officers to^frarchhis (hop, and feeing them produce the inflramentsof his fraud, which, after an impartial examina¬tion, were openly condemned and broken to pie¬ces. His ffiame acd confufion, however, he hop¬ed would plead with a (bn to:excufe him all fur¬ther puoifhment of his crime ; but even this,though entirely arbitrary, the naib made as fevereas for the molt indifferent offender, for he fen-termed him to a fine of fifty piaflres, and to re¬ceive a baftinado of as many Wows on the.foles ofhis feet. All this was executed’ upon 'he fpot,after which the naib leaping from.his horle, threwhimfelf at his feet, and watering them with histears, addreffed him thus: “Father I have diticharged my duty to my. God, my fovereign, mycountry, and my flation; permit me now, by myrefpefl and fubmiffion, to acquit the debt j. owe aparent.I24 AN INSTANCE OF, &c.parent. Juflics is blind; it is the power of 'Godon earth, it has no regard to father or fon, Godand our neighbour’s right are above the ties of.nature, you had offended againft the laws of juf-tice, you deferved this punifhment, you would inthe end have received it from fome other. I amforry it was your fate to have received h from me,my <£>nfcier»ce would not fuffer me to aft, other-wife : behave better far the future, and inftcad ofblaming, pity my being reduced to fb cruel a ne-ceffty.” This done He mounted his horfe again,and then continued his journey, amidft the accla¬mations and praifes of the whol- city, for fb ex¬traordinary a piece of juffice *, report of whicljbeing rndde to the Sublime Porte, the Sultan ad¬vanced him to the poll of Cady ; from whence bydegrees, he rofe to the dignity of Mufti, who isthe head of both religion and law among dieTurks. Were our dealers«in fmall weights to bedealt with according to the Turkilh law, the poormight not be fo much impofed .upon as they arenow.FINIS, ’GLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, Saltmarket,