T H EMERRY TALESw.— TTT - •V ■' , ■' ^| #7^^ A/e;/ o f Gothammerry Books this is the chief.It is a a purging Pill, •7 o carry off all heavy Grieft' And make you laugh your fill.1; rinted and Sold by J. Momiss/Gav/^.'OF TH£A COLLECTipN OF JESTSri'0 WHICH IS A.DDiDJEDINBURGHTHEmerry'talesOF THEWISE MEN OF GOTHAM.T A L E I.THERE were two men of Gothamand one of them was going toNottingham market to buy fheep, andthey both met together on Notting¬ham bridge. Well met, faid one to the'’other; whether are you going ? faid hethat came from Nottingham Marry,faid he that was going thither, I amgoing to the market to buy fheep. Buyfheep ! faid the other, which way willyou bring them home ? Marry, faid theother, I will bring them over thisbridge. By Robin Hood, faid he thatcame from Nottingham, but thou fhaltnot. By my maid Margery, faid the o--ther, but 1 will. You fhall not,' faid theone ; I will, faid the other. Then theybeat their ftaves one againft the other,and then againft the ground, as if anhundred ftieep had’been betwixt them.Hold there, faid the one. Beware ofmy fheep leaping over the bridge, faidthe other, I care not, faid the one. Theyihall all ccme this way, laid the othe__—,—it they {hall not, laid the one. ThenId the other, it thou make much ado,viU put my huger in thy mouth. Ard thou wilt, (aid the other. And as:j3y were in contention, another wifem that belonged to Gotham, camethe market with a fade of mealt his horfe ; and feeing his neighboursiftfife about flieep, and none betwixtjpn, faid he, Ah ! fools, will you ne-- learn wit! then help me. contt-fed he, to lav this fuck upon my (houl-f. They did (o>. and he .went to thep of the bridge, and {hook out theuLai into the fiver, faying, how much,lal is there in my fack, neigbours ?Irry, faid one, none. Indeed, repli-fehis 'wife man, even fo much wit is>re is in your two heads, to drive fort you have not.—Now, which wasI wifeft of thefe three f I leave younidge.TALE II.INHERE was a man of Gotham that':e to the market with two bulhels ofbat, and becaufe his horfe Hiouldbe damaged by carriyng too greaturden, he was determined to carry) corn himfelfupon his own neck,-   * . J A 4 ) • ' tand ftiU kept.riding upon his horjfe, tilhe arrived at the end of his journey,Now I will leave ypu- to judge, which wa:the wifeft, his horfe or himfelf.T A t E III.,ON a time the men .of Gotham fairwould have pinn’d in the cuckow, thatfhe might ling all the year; and in themid ft of the town, they had a hedgemade ,round in compafs, and got.a ecu-kow and put her into it, and laid, Sin£here, and you fhall lack neither meatnqr drink all the year. The cuckow,when fire perceived herfelf encompafledwitih the hedge, flew away. A venge¬ance on her, faid thefe wife men, wedid not make our hedge high enough.TALE IV.THERE was* a man of Gotham, whewent to Nottingham market to felcheefe; and going down the hill tc‘ Nottingham-bridge, one of his cheefesfefl out of his wallet, and ran down thehill. Whorfon, faid the fellow, what rcan you run to the market alone ? Tlnow fend [one after another. Ther.laying, liis wallet down, taking out th(sheefes he tumbled them down the hillone after another Some ran into, one| ( .5' ,)fibuih, and fame into another. . How-fever, 'he charged them to nieet him m:|the market-.place. The'man went to theknarket to meet with the cheefes, and.ftayed till the market was almoft over;Ithen went and enquired at his neign-hours, if they faw his cheefes come/to 'ijfhe market ?. Why, who fhould briiijr[them f fajd one. Marry, thcmfelves,i:faid the fellow, they knew the way ye-•ry well. A vengeanpe on them, theyjjran fo faft, 1 was afraid they wouldpun beyond the market; I am perfuad-';ed they are by this time almolt as farjas .York So he immediately rod to■York' put was very much difappointed.f And to add to it, he never found norheard of one of his cheefes.TALE V.’ i • : • • v L V ! HL > f - f> ■ ».- A Man of Gotham .bought at Not-|tingham-market, a trivot, or barn-irop,and going home with it, his flioutders‘grew weary with the carriage. He'letit down, and feeing it had three* feet,faid, Whorefon, thou haft three feet and11 but two, thou thalc bear me home-ifthoii wilt; To fet himfelf dpwit, and Hid to it,' Bear me asI have done thee, for if thou doftn uponlongasnpt,(, 6 )thou fhalt ftand ftill for me, The mrof Gotham feeing that his trivot wouinot move, Stand ftill, faid he, in tl;mayor’s name, and follow me if thewilt, and I can mow you the riT^ay. 'When he went home, his wiafked him where the .trivot was ? fffaid, it had three legs and he had bjtwo, and he had taught him th^ readway to his houfe; therefore he migicome himfelf if he would. YvTi'ere diyou leave the trivot, faid the womanAt Gotham bridge, faid he So fhe immediately ran and fetched the trivoiherfelf, or otherwife fhe muft certainbhave loft it, on account of her hufband’want of wit.TALE HI.A certain fmlth of Gotham had slarge wafp’s nefl among the ftraw at thejend of his forge, and their coming inj >one of his neighbours to have his horleifhoed, and the -wafps being exceedingjbufy, the man was flung by one, o£them. The man, being grievoyfly af¬fronted, faid, Are you worthy to keepa forge or not, to h^ve men iiung withthefe wafps*? 01 neighbour, faid thefmith, be content, and I fhall put them^ f 7 )from their neft presently. Immediate*Iv he took a coulter, and heated it redhot and thruft it in the draw at the endof his forge, and fet it on fire, and burntit up. Then faid the fmith, I told theeFd fire them out of their ncfLtale yii.ON Good'friday, the men of Go¬tham, confultcd together, what to dowith their white-herrings, fprats and{kit- fifh, and agreed, that all fuch fiftifbould be cafi into the pond or pool, inthe midft of the town, that the num¬ber of them might increale againft thenext year. Therefore every one that,bad any fiih left, did call them imme¬diately into the pond. Then faid one,I have gotten lo many red herrings.Well, faid another, ana I have left fomany whitings Another immediate¬ly cried out, 1 have as. yet* gotten fomany fprats left. And, faid the lad,I have gotten fo many fait frfiies, letthem go together into the great pondwithout any difiin&ion, and we may«r ' *.be fare to fare like lords the next year.At the beginning of the next Lent theyimmediately went about drawing theyond, imagining they fhould have the^ 8 ) . fnih, but were much furprifeu to fmc|nothing but a great eel. Ah ! faid they!a mifehief on this eel, for it hath eat4«n up our fifn. What rinifl we do witli!him faid one to the other ; kill him 1: -faid one, chop him in pieces, faid'an-ther. Nay, not ib, -faid the other, but |let us drown him. Be it accordingly |;fo, replied they all.* So they immedi- iately went to another pond and eaftthe eel into the water. . Lie there, faid ithefe wife men, and fhift for thyfelf, i>-fince you may not expert any help t/omus. So they left the eel to be drowned. AT A L E VIII.ON a time the men of Gotham, had J! forgotten to pay their rents to tHeirlandlord. So one faid to the other, To¬morrow mu ft be pay day|; by whom:an we fend our money to our land- ‘| ord? Said -one or them, I have thislay taken a*hare, and he may carry it, i©r he-is very quick tooted ; be it fo, :epl-ied the reft ; he Ihall have a letter,nd a large purfe to put our moneVi, and we can diredl him the nearelt j: ay. When the letter was written, andI is money put into the purfe, they im-| ediatelv tied them about the hare’si. -—l , J ,, "isck,, Saying, \oa muft firfl; go toI'oughborongb, and then to Leicefter,Ijid at Norwark is our landlord ; than,bmmend us unto him, and there istis due. Th& hare, as foon as he got(hit of their hands, ran quite a contra-yr way, Some faid, thou muft firft goo Loughborough; others faid, let theJ.are alone, for ftie can tell a nearer wayban the heft of us; let him go.TALE IX.°A man of Gotham that wentmg in the meadow, found arafshopper. He immediatelyllown his fcythe, and ran hometeighbours, and faid, That themow-largethrewto hisdevilas there in the field, and was hop¬ing among the grafs. Then was e-ery man ready, with their clubs and*aves, halberts and other weapons, toill the grafshopper. When they camedinoft to the place where the grafs¬hopper was, faid one to the other, let;very one crofs himfelf, from the devil^Sfor we will not meddle with him, fo:hey returned agpin, and faid, wo ^ToreIoleft this day that, we went no .far¬mer. O ye cowards, faid he, that le frhis fcythe in the meadow, help me toNo, anfwered theyjlit is good to fleep in a whole fl^in Itlfis mndi better for thee to iofe thy!|feythe, than to marr us all.> TALE X.OK a certain time tliere were twelve Ijmen of Gotham that went to fifh ; and]fome waded in the water, and fomerflood on dry land And in going home, rone faid to the other, we have ventu-11ren wonderfully in wadding, I pray God |that none of us did come from home, rto be drowned. Nay, Marry, faid one rto the other, let us fee that, for there :did twelve of us come out Then they 1told thenii’elves, and every on.e toldeleven. Said the one to the other, therej one of us finely drowned, i'hey wentback- to the brook where they had been 'fUhing, and fought up and down forhim that was drowed, making great la¬mentation for him. A courtier com¬ing by, a iked what it was they foughtfor, and why they were forrowful ?Oh f Taid they, this day we went to fifhin the brook ; twelve of us came out.togethar, and one is drowned. Saidthe courtier, tell how many there be 1of you. One of them / id eleven-; but   r~rr^——I he did not count himself. Well faid |.! the cjpurt.ier, what will you give me,^nd I will find out the twelfth man ?! Sir, laid they, all the money we havei got. Give me the money, faid he; he1 then began with the firft, and gave hima ftroke over the fhoulders with his1 whip,.which made him groan; faying,Here is one, and fo he ferved them all,i and they groaned at the matter. Whenij he came to the laO , he paid him well,I faying here is the twelfth man ; God’sibleffing on thy heart, faid they for |l:! finding our brother.TALE XI.A Man of Gotham riding along the| high-way, faw a cheefe, fo he drew hisS fword and pricked it with the point,Jiin order to pick it up. Another mant came by and alighted, and picked it| up an;l rode away with it The man of| Gotham rides back to Nottingham to1 buy a long fword to pick up the cheefe ;;and returning to the place where the;cheefe did lye, he pulled out his fword,^pricking the ground, and faid, If I hadjhad but this long fword, I Ihould havei had the che^fe myfelf, but now anotherhas got it*It’ , " • * 1r a'-l | 't-n,;- ^A Man of Gotliam, that did not love'<113 wifp, and fhe having fair hair, herhefband fa id divers times, he wouldcut it off; but durft not do it .when.Hie was awake, fo he refoived to do itwhen fhe was afleep ; therefore onenight he took up a pair of fheers, andput them under his pillow ; which hiswife perceiving, faid to one of hermaids, go to bed to my hufband, forlie intends to cut off my hair to-night,let him cut off thy hair, and I willgive thee as good a kirtle as ever thoudidft fee, The maid did fo, and feign¬ed herlelf afleep, which the man notperceiving cut off the maid’s hair, andWrapped it about the flieers, and laidtliem under the pillo and went toifeep. ffhe maid arofe, and the wifetook the hair and facers, and went tothe hall, and there burned the hair.The man had a fine h’orfe that he lov¬ed much, and the goddwife went in tothe ftable, cut bfrthe Hotfe’s tail, wrap-pfed the fheers up in it, and then laidthem under th^' pilbw again. HerIrUfband feeing her cortibing her headin the morning, marvelled very much. C >3 .)thereat. The .girl feeing her mafler ina deep fltady, faid vrhat the devil ailsthe horfe in the ffabledf He bleeds pro¬digiously. The man ran iqto the fla¬il ble, and found the horfe's tail was cutoff; then going to his bed, he foundI; the fheers wrapped up in his horie’stail, He then went to his wife, faying,I crave thy mercy, for I intened tocut off thy hair, but have cut off myown horfe’s tail. Yea, faid fhe, felf-do,? felt-have. Many men think to do abad turn, but turneth oft-times tothemfelves.TALE. XIX.A man of Gotham laid hisJ wife awager, that fhe could noi: make him acuckold. No ! faid fhe, but I can. Donot ipare me, faid he, but do what youcan. On a time, (lie had hid all thefpiggots and faufets, and going intothe buttery, fet the barrel a broach,-and cried to her fpoufe, Tray bringme a fpiggot and faucet, or elfe the aleiwill all run out. He fought up anddown, hut could not find one., Come)| here then, faid fhe, and put thy hugerin the tap-hole. Then fhe called a tai¬lor with whom fhe bad made a bargain.i! 1 '4 1Soon aft^r {lie came to her hufband,and brought a ^piggot and faucet, fay¬ing pull thy finger out of the tap hole,good cuckold.N Beihrew your heart foryour trouble, faid he, make no iuchbargain with me again.TALE XIV.A Man of Gotham took a youngbuzzard and invited, four or five gen¬tleman’s fervants to the eating of it;but the old wife killed an old goofe,and fhe and two of her gofiips ate lipthe buzzard, and the old goofe was laidto the fire for the gentleman’s fervants.So when they came, the goofe was letbefore them. What is this faid one ofthem? the goodman faid, a curiousbuzzard. A buzzard! faid they, why’tis an old goofe, and thou art a knaveto mock us, and fo, in great, anger de¬parted home. The fellow was veryforry that he had affronted them, andtook a bag and put the buzzard’s fea¬thers into it; but his wife defired himbefore he went, to fetch a block ofwood, and in the iuterm fhe pulled outthe buzzard’s feathers, and put in thegoofeY Then the man taking up thebag, went to the gentleman’s lervants,and faid, Prav be nat angry with me,you fluh fee i had a buzzard, tor herebe the feathers. Then he opened the! bag and took out the goofe’s feathers.I Upon, which one of them took a cudgel,i and gave him a dozen ftripes, faying.Why you knave, could you not be con¬tent to mock us at home ? but are you; come here to mock us ?TALE XV.A Man’s wife of Gotham was deli¬vered of a male child, and the father•jinvited the goffips, which were chil¬li dren of eight or ten years of age Theeldeft child’s name was Gilbert, theJfecond’s name was Humphrey, andI the godmother’s name was Chriftibel.(-Their relations admonifhed them di¬vers times that they mud all fay afterithe parfon.* And when "they were allcome to the church, the Pried faid, beyou all agreed of the name ? Gilbert,iHr/mphrey, and Chridibel, faid they,1*11. The pried then faid, Wherefore;come you hither ? They immediately:faid the lame. The Pried being ama-:Jed, could not tell what to fay, butwhiffled, and faid, Whey, and fo didihey The pried being angry, faid, Go, ( m ). -home fools, go home. I hen Gilbert,Humphrey,, and Chriftibel did the lame,The pneft then provided godfathersand godmothers himfelf.Here a man may fee, that childrencan do nothing without good indruc-tions, and that they are not wife whodifregard themTALE XVI.A Young man of Gotham, went awooing to a fair maiden; his motherwarned him before hand, faying, when¬ever you look at her, call a fheep’s eyeat her, and fay, How do!t thou, rayfweet Pigfnie ? The follow went to a/butcher’s, and bought feven or eightyfheep’s eyes. And when this luftywooer was at dinner, he would look-upon this fair wench, and csd in herface a [beep’s eye, faying, How doftthou do, my fweet Piglnie ? How Ido, faid the wench, fwine’s-face, whatdo you mean, by calling a Iheep’s eyeat me ? Oh ! my fweet Piglnie have atthee with another. But I dety thee,fwine’s-face, faid the wench. What,my fweet old Pigfnie, be content, forif you live till next year, you will bea foul low. Walk knave, walk, faidrrp( 77ihe, for if you live till the next year,ye will be a fool.T A L E XVII.THERE was a man of Gotham whowould be married, and when the dayof marriage was come, they went tochurch. The pried faid, Do you fayafter me. The man faid, Do you fayafter me. The pried faid, Say not af¬ter me fuch words, but fay what I tellyou ; thou doft play the fool to mockholy Scriptures concerning matrimo¬ny. Then the fellow faid, thou doll playthe fool to mock the holy Scriptures^concerning matrimony. The priedI'xould not tell what to fay, but anfwer-jied, What fhall I do with this fool|?i'lAnd the man faid, what fhall I dohvith this fool ? So the pried took his■leave and would not marry them. Buthe whs indru&ed by others how to do,und was afterwards married- And thusThe breed of the Gothamites has beennerpe'nated to this day.I T A L E XVIII.• THERE was a Scotfman whot Gotham, and he took a houfee didunce from London, anddwelta lit-turfi-|'i it in to an inn; and for his lign he( i8 )would have a boar’s head: Accordingly he went to a carver, and laid, canyou make me a bare-head ? Yes, faithe carver. Then, faid he, make mea bare-head, and thouTe have 2od. rothy hire. I will do it laid the carver,So on St Andrew’s day before Chrilfmas the which is called Yule in Scotland, the Scot came to London for f is|boar’s head to fet up at his door, I fayto thee, fpeak, fays the Scotfman, h*itthou made me a bare-head ? Yes, laidthe carver, He went and brought aman’s head of wood that was b, /e,and faid, Sir, here is your banAy, faid the Sc#t, The meikle dell' §this a bare-head ! Yes, faid th»- e^rver.1 biy, faid the Scotlman, I will rave abare-head, like n head that fotiows thefow that has ^rvees. Sir, faiu the car¬ver, I don’t know a fow and gryces.What, whorefon, know you not a fowthat will greet and groan, and cry, aweek, a week. What, faid the carver,do you mean a pig P Yes, faid theScotfman, let me have her head madein timber, and fet on her fcalp, andlet her fing* whip whire. The carverfaid, he could non You whnrefon.j/if•0.( *9 )iuid he, gar her as {he’d fing, whijwhire. This fhews that all men delight in their fancy.TALE. XM.IN old times, during thefe tales, th<|wives of Gotham were got into an ale* |houfe, and faid, They were all pro |fitable to their hufbands. Which way !good gollips, faid the ale wife ? The |hrft faid, I will tell j^ou all good gof-ijlips ; I cannot brew nor bake, there* Ifore I am every day alike ; and go tc |the ale-houfe, becaufe I cannot go tcjthe church, and in the ale houfe l pray llto God, to fpeed my hufband, and 1 iam fure my prayers will do him morel]good than my labour. Then faid thejlfecond. I am profitable to rny hulband,]in faving of candle in winter, for Icaufe my hufband and all my peopleto go to bed by d^y-light, and rife byday-iight. The third laid, I am profi-3table in fparing bread, for 1 drink a!gallon of ale, 1 care not much for meat, jThe fourth faid, 1 am loth to fpcnclmeat and drink at home, fo 1 go tothe tavern at Nottingham, and drink 1wine, and fuch other things as God;fends me there. The fifth faid, a man], ( 20 )will ever have more company in ano-Jj ther’s houfe than his own, and moftcommonly in the ale-houfe. The fixthfaid my hjafband has flax and wool tolj fparc, if I go to othet folks’ houfes to do1 their work. The feventh faid, 1 fpare| both my hu{b.mdTs wood and clothes,and fit talking all the day at otherfolks fire. The eight faid, beef, mut¬ton, and pork are dear, I therefore take 'pigs, chickens, conies and capons, be¬ing of the lefier price. The ninth faid,I Ipare my husband’s foap, for infleadof wafhing once a week, I wafh butonce a quarter. Then faid the ale-wifeI keep all' my husband’s' ale I brewfrom fouring,; for as' 1 wont to drinkit almofi up, now I leave never a drop,T A L E XX.ON Afh Wednefday, the minifler ofGotham would have a coHeddion fromhis parifhioners ^ and faid unto them.. My friends, the time is come that yoummT ufe prayer, fading, and alms, butcome ye to flirift, I will tell you moreof my mind. But as for prayer, I don’tthink that two men in the parifli canfay their Patef-nofler. As for faffing,you fa ft ft'ir, for you have not a good( 21 )raeaPs meat in the year. As for alms-deeds what fhould they give that havej nothing? in Lent, you inuft refrain Ifrom drunkenneis, and abflain from mdrink, No, not fo, faid one fellow, for |I it is an old proverb, ‘ That fifh fhould |1 ‘ fwim.” Yes, faid the pried, it. nyuftI fwirri in the water, 1 crave your mef-I cy, quoth the fellow, 1 thought itflionld have fwam in fine ale, for Ihave been told fo. Soon after the men |j of Gotham came to fhrift, and being] feven in number, the Pried knew not'••• j what penance to give them. He faid,Ilf I injoin you to pray, you cannotfay your pater-noder. And it is butfolly to make you fad, becaufe younever eat a good meal’s meat. Labourhard, and get a good dinner on Sun¬day, and I will pirtake of it, anotherman he enjoined to fare well on Mon¬day, and another on Tuefday, and one1 after another, that one of them fhouldfare wellonce in the week, that hemight have a part of their meat Andait" | as for alms-deeds, the Pried faid. ye:be but b< ggars, all except one or two,;therefore bedow your alms, on your-( 22 )An Irifhman being afked, whether; \e or his brother were oldest ? I air*| 'Idest, faid he, but if my brother live|| hree years longer, we fhall be both of| ne age.An Irilb fervant being druck by his; aafier, cried out, Devil take me, if I! m certain whether he has kill’d me or; iot; but if 1 am dead it will afford| ae great fatisfadion, to hear the oldogue was hanged for killing me,A deaf fellow corning to London, toell a turkey, at Hyde-park-Gorner, had,ccafion to untrufs a point; a gentleman>ailing by, intended to put a joke up«| >on him ; Countryman, faid he, there’s .turd under you; the man thinking; e ilked the price of his turkey, faid,1 our (hillings, mafter. I fay there’s a turdaider you, laid the other. It is as goodone as you ever did ate in your life,aid the fellow, either baked or roaft-d. You rafcal, faid he, I could find: n my heart to kick you fotmdly.—lome chufe, fays the fellow, for it youmn’t another will,One being at his wife’s funeral, andi he bearers going pretty quick alongie cried out to th«m, Don’s go fo faff,( 23 )Ivhat need we make a toil of apleafure.-Two Irifhmen, walking together inhe fields, were at length hemmed injy a great ditch, which when they per*eived, quoth one ot them, we mud1,0 back again, for the ditch is too bigor*us to jump over ; nay, quoth theilther, I protelt I’ll jump over, thoughj light in the middle.; 1 A number ol French gentlemen din-tig in a tavern in Germany, the maid,s fhe took out the difhes, let a roufingfart; and her miftrefs i'colding her fe-rerely for doing fuch a thing in hear¬ing of the guefts. Pafhaw, madam, fays:he, you don’t confider that they are alli-rench people, and don’t underllanderman.In Admiral Hawke’s laft engagementith the French, a failor on board onee fliips, had a leg (hot off, whereup-one of his meff-mates took himown to the furgeon, and took his legif the deck and put it under his arm ;- was no iooner brought down, butpother of his fneff mates began fhak-jlg his head, and telling him, he wasiry forry he had loft a leg. That’s aimn’d lie, you fon of a b*—h, repliedt 24 }ke, for 1 have got it under my arm.As Dean Swift was eroding the ferry;at Dublin, turning hirnfelf from thepadengers in the (tern of the boat, aifced a poor man near him, Well, friends\vhat prpfeilion are ypu of ? b am alor? Sir, anfwered the other, not knowmg the Dean. Are yop married ? faiSwift. Yes, Sir, repied the tailor. Anwho wears the breeches ? faid the DeanMy a—fe, anfwered the other.A gentleman one day gave his fer-Jvant a kick cn his breech, upon whiclthe fellow let a roufng f—t, his maflerjwas horribly offended, but the fervanfaid, Why, Sir, would you knock at ajdoor and have no body anfwer.An Irifiiman at Chefter, upon enquiring at his landlord, how he coulcget to London, and being told he mightgo in the waggon, he replied, Xo, honey, that won’t do, I am always feafick when ride in a waggonA Schoolmafler a firing one of his boyin a cold winter mornipg, whatAwas Latin for cold ? the boy hefitated a little—What firrah, laid he, can’t you tell? Yesyes, cried the boy, I have it my fingerends FINIS.