THE ~ " —MowxHiiV Scrap Book,FOR JUNE.From bnght’ning fields of ether fair disclos d,Child of the Sun, refulgent Summer comes,In pride of youth, and felt through Nature s depthHe comes attended by the sultry Hours,And ever-fanning Breezes, on his way ;While, from his ardent look the turning SpringAverts her blushful face ; and earth, and skies,All-smiling, to his hot dominion leaves !CONTENTS.The Spouting Club . . . • • • • • ^The Rattle-snake, an American Tale, ...A Traveller’s Tale, concluded from our last, 10The Christian Sabbath, • | ^The Season, in the country.-Sheep-shearmg, 10Cookery,   * ‘Account of a Wedding Ceremony in Cyprus, kOVarieties, ^Garden Work to be done in June, ... 24DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER.Price One Penny.tsiiuuiu oe suDjected to the imputation of usii:^ thethe spouting club.Some youth’s residing in a country town,And ever on the wing to gain renown,JMust needs, to raise their fame a little higher.Proudly to the histrionic art aspire :Some females too, engaged to lend their aid,1 art of the histrionic party made.One night they met, and soon a club was formed ;i he piet s language every bosom warm’d :Beyond its bounds each heart began to soar.And soon their theatre was in a roar.‘I hat you have wrong’d me doth appear in this ; *Ones » slim grocer, with Satanic hiss.Aml7j2TS’ fa'Se’’ Pr°ud Warwick ^rn!y cries.And almost on the taunting Edward flies ;VV hilst with a voice shrill, dissonant, and hoarse,A barber bawls, ‘ my kingdom for a horse.’Aext comes a taylor, with his clenched fist.And solemnly he cries, ‘ list, list, oh list.’iSext conies young pedagogue, with hat and cane.And loudly shouts ‘ Vis I, Hamlet the Dane.’W hilst a young crackly with a dandy roll,Cried fine charming girl, upon my soul.”,k 0 fast one woe doth tread upon another ’Ea Gertrude cries, ‘ now do look at my brother,i never—Robert, how you do behave,He’s jump’d right down into Ophelia’s grave.’‘Confound thee, thou old smooth fawning talker.”Cries an heroic youth, a licensed hawker ;‘Here it not,’ cries a smith, ‘ for Vis a knellI hat summons thee to heaven or to hell.’‘ ’r,is now tlle very witching time of night,—’‘ Is t by George,’ cries Richard, in affright,‘ I should have shut up shop three hours a«oIlly master will be after me I know. °My blood grows chilly, and I freeze with horrorI m sure I cannot shave a man to-morrow.The lateness of the hour sets all in fright,And new on every side resounds ‘ good nUhtAnd every one hastes home half dead with foarU1 the reception that awaits him there.THEMONTHLY SCRAP BOOK.THE RATTLE-SNAKE,An American Tale.“ Lo! the green Serpent, from his dark abode,Which even imagination fears to tread ;At noon forth issuing, gathers up his trainIn orbs immense.”My residence in Carolina was so short, that 1 hadnot an opportunity of entering much into society inCharlestown, and consequently my books and mygun were my principal companions. 1 had readall the works of Lord Byron, and, after their per¬usal, I determined to have recourse to Nature, andto study her myself. Having been informed thatthere was a village about twenty miles from Charles¬town, with suitable accommodation, I determin¬ed to proceed thither j and, as the woods affordedthe promise of good sport, I resolved to walk, and,when a favourable opportunity afforded, to shootat the wild animals which fortune might place with¬in the range of my fowling-piece. Although Icommenced my journey at break of day, my pro¬gress was slow, over roads through a sandy soil,and, where the soil was soft, formed by trees laidacross, which, however, were less annoying to methan they are generally found to be by those whotravel in the carriages of the country.The trees on either side of the way have a moststriking and imposing effect, rising, as they do, toa height that is almost incredible, and, I fear 1should be subjected to the imputation of using the4 THE MONTHLYtraveller’s privilege, were I to attempt to give an,idea of their dimensions. Pines one hundred andsixty feet height, and perfectly straight, were onuall sides to be observed, whilst many hardwoodtrees, from their highest branch to the surface olearth, were concealed with long grey moss, whichlhung in graceful festoons, and formed a curtain*!behind which the wood nymphs might gambolunseen.A beautiful bird, which flew past me before I.could raise my gun to my shoulder, alighted in ajpart of the wood which had been partially cleared,about fifty yards on my right, and, althoughwarned to keep the direct roads, its beautifulplumage tempted me to follow it. As I approached, jit rose again, and again alighted at a short dis-*tance. When I left the road and entered the wood,I was delighted with its fragrance. The wild fig-tree grew' in abundance, offering its delicate fruit;the jessamine and myrtle exhaled their delicious*perfume ; and, at times, I could perceive the yel- Ilow orange peeping from amidst its umbrageous*retreat, and my mind arose in grateful acknow-Vledgement of the Power that sprinkled the forest Iwith beauty, and whose all-creating hand is as*visible in the simplest floweret as in the proudest hami loftiest of yon heaven-towering pines ! |I was yet in pursuit of the richly-coloured bird !i iiad seen, and which still attracted me forward, ,iwhen the ground became swampy, long dank grass iioccasionally interrupted my progress, and I was ,tonvinced a retreat ought to be contemplated, when t1 approached a space where two or three pines had iSCRAP BOOK. ^been felled, and, upon the branch of a neighbouringtree, the bird had alighted. I was about to fire,when, in a moment, it uttered a shrill piercingnote, its little wings fluttered and beat against itssides, and it gave every evident signs of fear andalarm. I could not pull the trigger, and, indeed,the chance of securing it without firing, appearedto me important, as its beautiful and varied plum¬age would thus be uninjured. It was now onlyabout six feet from the ground, and I immediatelycrept behind it, as it hopped from spray to spray,on its downward course, and I was about to putforth my hand to catch it, when the glare of twodark-red eyes from amidst the brushwood attractedmy attention, and I perceived an enormous ratt'e-snake gazing on the poor victim, now at the dis¬tance from it of only a few feet.At first I had believed the folds of the reptileto be the branches of a tree, but I was soon unde¬ceived, for as the poor fluttering bird approached,he began to rattle violently, whilst a strange un¬earthly sound proceeded from his throat. As faras I could judge, he was at least eight feet long,the colour of his head a dark brown, the bodyyellowish brown, transversely marked with broadblack stripes, but his eyes were absolutelyfiendish ; and under their fascinating influ¬ence, I stood for some moments immoveable ;although the animal was too intent on his prey, toobserve me. The poor bird, at this moment fellfrom the branch exhausted and trembling, and theserpent was raised up to dart at it, when taking acool and deliberate aim, 1 tired.6THE MONTHLYIt was some time before the smoke cleared Iaway, and I deemed it prudent to reload as quick-ly as possible ; but I was delighted to see the little jbird, flying overhead unhurt, and soon after thehorrid snake writhing in death. As I was re-joiciug over the correctness of my aim, I heard a tfootstep approaching, and being- now ignorant in iwhat direction the road lay, 1 felt relieved by the !circumstance. The person approached ; he worea light straw hat, and was habited in his workingdress, carrying a very large axe, which lie seemedlately to have used. His hair was dark, long, andbushy, his eyes black, dull, and heavy, with a verysinister expression, as it occasionally glanced underits eyelids, as if to examine my intentions. I feltdistrustful of him, and kept at such a distance be¬hind him, he leading the way to the public road,as would enable me to act, should he be inclinedto warfare. After inquiring whither I was going,and declaring, I should be unable to reach theplace of my destination, until long after night-fall,he stated that I would find accommodation, at acottage four miles farther on the road. I under¬stood, of course, it was not an inn ; but in Ameri¬ca, hospitality is carried to the greatest extent, andthere, “ stranger is a holy name.”1 determined to take his advice, although I re¬marked his very extraordinary expression of coun¬tenance, as he pointed to the direction I oughtto travel.Having arrived at the road, we parted, and Iwent merrily forward for some time, but at lengthit rained, and darkness approaching, I naturallySCRAP BOOK. ' 7felt anxious for a place of rest from my fatigue.After walking for a considerable time, I descrieda glimmering light at some distance, and thither Ilepaired. It had rained heavily for an hour, andalthough the house was literally a hovel, shelter inany situation, of the humblest description, was stilla blessing. I approached and knocked. “ Whois there, exclaimed a female voice I replied“ a stranger.” The door was immediately opened,and, having ascertained that the place of my origi¬nal destination, was yet five miles off, it may besupposed, I readily accepted the offer of shelterwhich the inmate of the cottage proffered.The light revealed the figure of my hostess, whowas, without exception, the ugliest of the sex Iever beheld. I inquired if her husband were athome ? to which she replied in the negative, ad-ding, however, that she expected him to return inan hour. I declined eating any thing, althoughpressed to partake of some provisions, and placedmy fowling-piece, knapsack, and powder flask in acorner, not far from the fire. My elothes weresoon dry, and I w’as beginning to feel drowsy,when footsteps were heard at the door, and inWalked a tall, powerful figure, whom I immediate-recognized as him of the hatchet, whom I had en¬countered a few hours before. He dashed uponI the floor his axe, and, at the same time, the bloodybody of a serpent, which retained just motionenough to indicate it had recently lived, and which,I perceived, was the one I had fired at in the woods..I concealed my dislike, as well as I could, andboldly stated, that I intended to remain all nightunder his roof, although privately, I did not par¬ticularly relish my situation. He said, there was|only one bed in the house, but I should have it,and, as I was anxious and ready for my repose, heipointed to the humble couch on which 1 was tojsleep, at the opposite end of the apartment from,the tire-place.“ A long sleep to you,” said he, and ids wife)immediately added, “ he will sleep long enoughiand sound enough, I warrant him ” “ What caulthese expressions mean,” thought I, “ surely theydo not intend to murder me.” 1 he light, oc-fcasionally reflected in my face, from the huge ax«that lay on the floor. There, too, lay the rattle)snake, and the lamp having been extinguished, tlwfire, occasionally, lightened the faces of my com ipanion, and then, for a time, su:.k into uttedarkness.The woodman and his spouse now began Mwhisper, and, although I shut my eyes, I founnsleep had altogether forsaken my pillow. I coul«leven hear what they said, but, as it did not concern me, I had nearly fallen into slumber, whensuddenly, I heard the husband say, “is he asleep?“ No,” replied the female, who had, for soim :time keenly observed me. Again they began twhisper, and the words “fowling-piece” am“ rattle-snake,” frequently reached my ear. Inshort time he asked again, “ is he asleep ?” I novfeigned myself to be slumbering, and “yes,” waher reply.The man then arose. He went to a box antfront thence took a large knife. The hair on m nSCRAP BOOK 9head bristled, and the perspiration stood on myforehead ! A sigh escaped my lips. He startedback, and, seizing the lamp, he placed it near thebedside on a table—“he is dreaming,”he whispered.He now placed his left hand firmly on the edgeof the bed, and, clasping the knife with the other,stretched it across me. My doom was sealed.1 prepared for my fate, when, with an eye thatwatched every motion, although nearly closed,' Isaw his hand move from the bed-side and seize alarge bacon ham that lay below it, whilst, with theother, he cut oft’ several slices, which he took tothe fire-place, and on which, after due preparation,his wife and he supped comfortably together.After a profound sleep, I arose next morning,; and enquired to wlut amount I was their debtor.“ \ou owe us nothing,” they replied, “ we are tooproud of a stranger visitor in our poor cottage.”They, moreover, presented me with rather a bulkyparcel, neatly sewed, which, they requested, Iwould not open, until I arrived at the place of mydestination. This, afterwards, proved tt^ be theSkin of the snake which the kind couple had spenta great part of the night in preparing for me as apresent. I left them with my best wishes, andlearned, from my “ day’s sport in the woods,” that,in all circumstances, we should judge charitably ofthe motives and intentions of mankind, especiallywhen we have no cause to think unfavourably ofthem besides our own unfounded prejudices andaversions.10THE MONTHLYA TRAVELLER’S TALE.( Concluded from our last.)A night’s repose scarcely restored me to mywonted energy. I started, however, at day-break, ,bending my way towards the habitation of the des-Cendant of a Scottish emigrant. He was reputedto be the richest man and the best farmer in the |district; and was deservedly famed for his strictunswerving honesty, cheerful disposition, and greathospitality. I hoped to reach his land by noon,and took no provisions with me, although theh iendly boor pressed me to .accept something tokeep up my courage as I went. I declined hisefier with many thanks for his kindness, and hur-ried on my way to the Scotchman’s abode. 1 Ireached his portal as the family were sitting downto their plain repast. Plenty smiled around me ; :but luxury never intruded on the board of JVLLeod.Boiled roots, fine bread, a few fruits and springwater, were the constant fare of himself and hishardy, blooming, and virtuous family. 1 remainedunder their roof for three days, so truly was 1 de¬lighted with every individual of the house. Theirmanners were strictly primitive. The daughtersv ere particularly beautiful; there was an expres¬sion of innocence and truth in their features, and ta natural grace in their deportment that 1 haveseldom beheld. The men were all stout, active,laborious, and free from those petty bickerings andanimosities which too often arise between thosewhom nature and consanguinity should unite in the •soft ties of piece and loving communion.SCRAP BOOK. 11I departed from the door of Macleod in a verydifferent state to that in which I left my smokino-host, old Hendrick Groning. I was calm, cof-lected, but by no means so extravagantly brave.I was influenced by no unnatural excitement, and! jea'‘e(l 110 succeeding depression and weakness. Ihad a long tract of country to cross before 1 couldreach a place of shelter ; but I looked forward tothe twilight, in which I knew I should necessari¬ly be enveloped, without a single emotion of fearor reluctance to proceed. It was reported by thelabourers of Macleod’s, that the Caff'rees had lomrmeditated an incursion,—that they had even com,fitted ravages on the banks of the Great FishllVeM /• i?"16 °f tlie'r strag£ling parties mightpossibly fall in with, and sacrifice me with theirassagays for the sake of my pistols and accoutre¬ments. 1 he buffaloes infested that part of thecountry which I was crossing, and several cattlead recently been missed, which, it was supposedhad fallen victims to the lions. I recollected allthese circumstances on my solitary journey, butthey alarmed me not. I found mVseif in full pos¬session of my faculties, and went on, until 1 hadwell nigh accomplished my day’s travel, withoutwaiting to take any part of the bread and fruitwhich the good Macleod had considerately thrustinto my wallet. JI sat down to my frugal repast, just as the sun’shsk was drooping beneath the horizon. A hVhtc2Te ^7 fr°rn th1at P°int’ towards which myZZ™ f l the wind blew fromTee 5 I loved to think that the same breeze12THE MONTHLYwas kissing my brow which had blown over thethe green hills of my own native Erin, and wafted Ithe wishes and sighs of those who were near and Idearest to my heart. I was thinking of the ewicker gate of my old nurse’s cot, over which Ihad so often leant, at an hour like that, in sweetdiscourse with the maiden 1 loved. The old elmtree, Father Daly’s white, blossoming rose-bush,and every object in my native village started up inrapid succession before me, when suddenly I heard,something at my back, which sounded like a nakediifoot, warily placed upon the ground. I started upsjin a moment. There was a lion within ten paces.:ofme1 had now occasion for all my courage andipresence of mind. My first idea was to level mypistols at the beast; but Hendrick’s caution in¬stantly crossed my recollection, and observing the*effect my accidentally bold and steady position ap¬peared to have on the brute, I resolved to followthe old man’s advice. The lion’s eyes were fierce¬ly bent upon mine, and I returned him frown forfrown, standing firm and inflexible as he graduallyapproached me. I did not move a muscle of myrlimbs, but railed at him in a loud tone, and he irreturn roared so as to shake the earth beneath me^us hk successively lifted up his paws and held thenijfor a moment, curved under him, before he pulthen, to the ground again. At length, I uncon¬sciously closed my eyes, but recollecting myself inia moment, re-opened them just in time for my sal¬vation. The lion had ceased to roar, his tail wascurved, his mane seemed to be a wave of JrviugiSCRAP BOOK. 13hairs, and lie was crouched for a spring, when Ibarst my eyelids open, and looked upon liim withredoubled sternness. He appeared to be sudden¬ly quelled, and uttering one short growl, slowlydropped his huge tail, turned about, and sneakedmuttering away. 1 kept my eye upon him untilhe disappeared ; and then, and not till then, feltthe full sense of my danger ; the sense of which 'socompletely overpowered me that 1 fell lifeless uponthe earth. Even now I shudder whilst I ponder onthe event, and thank heaven that it was my fate toencounter the fierce animal when I was cooled andinvigorated, both mentally aaid bodily, by the purefare of Macleod, rather than on that fearful andwell remembered night which succeeded my de¬parture from the kind, but intemperate HendrickG roning.THE CHRISTIAN SABBATH.The Sabbath was provided and appointed by di¬vine wisdom—that wisdom which well knew whatwas in man, to be a place of seclusion and retreat,to which the soul might betake itself every seventhday, fot the purpose of recruiting its strength, andof repairing its wasted energies, after conflicting inunequal contest with the perturbations and dis¬quietudes, the cares and interests, the pleasuresand dissipations of the world. On this day, atruce has been imposed by the high authority ofheaven, upon the more direct warfare which thatgreat enemy, in its various forms of business andpleasure, carries on against the soul. It is a holyleague stipulated in our favour for the express pur-14 the monthlypose of affording1 us convenient opportunity of car¬rying- on, unmolested by the encroachments ofworldly care or occupation, our intercourse withonr Father who is in heaven. And when the objectof the institution is duly realised and appreciated,the effect is transcendently glorious and beneficial,and the end is fully accomplished. It is indeeddifficult tOi estimate too highly the soothing andtranquillizing influence of a sabbath, upon a spiritwhich has been worn in the service of the worldduring the preceding week, into comparative numb¬ness and insensibility to the pure and holy enjoymentsof an exalted fellowship with God. It is delight¬ful to contemp’ate it amidst the serenity of the sur¬rounding atmosphere, composing its tuffled affec¬tions, and, like the bird of the morning, preparingto rise on its pinions, in order to meet in midwayfellowship the hallowed choir above, and to pourforth its notes of praise and thanksgiving, while nojarring tumult of worldly business or delight inter¬venes to break their melody. On every seventhday. the impetus of earthly and carnalizing pur¬suits thus receives a check, and their power be¬comes in some degree enfeebled. The course of ithis world, which is so apt to carry us along in itsturbid and destructive movement, is broken at in¬tervals ; which affords us time to reflect upon theperil of our condition, and to contemplate the dread¬ful gulf to which it conducts. By the periodicalcessation from other employments, which the sab¬bath brings round, we are impressively reminded,that there is another and a better world ; that thereare higher and weightier interests, that there areSCRAP BOOK. ].5purer and more substantial joys than the presentscene affords, that ere long-, time will be swallowedup in eternity, and that we shall be surroundedwith realities of happiness, or woe, which will ren¬der all sublunary sorrows and delights as insigni-ficant as the bubbles upon the stream.Iheie is in fact, no external ordinance of reli¬gion, which experience shews to be so intimatelyconnected.with correspondent effects upon the ge¬neral character, as that of the sabbath. Few ha¬bits are so truly symptomatic of the real state ofthe mind, as the mode in which it is habituallyemployed. Fix your eye upon -any individual ofyour neighbourhood, or acquaintance in any de¬partment of life, who is remarkable for his con¬scientious regard for the sabbath, and for his regu¬lar and uniform attendance upon the public servicesof the sanctuary, and I am most exceedingly mis¬taken if you do not find him equally distinguished,if not by the genuineness of his piety and the fer¬vour of his devotion, at least by the decency, theindustry and rectitude of his general demeanour.Look around you on the other hand, and markt le man who is noted for his desecration of the daywinch is by pre-eminence “ the holy of the Lord”,the man who spends it in sleep, or in work, intravelling, or yawning, in drinking or gambling,-the man who is rarely, if ever, found at his churchi I'8 c‘ia.Pe^’ an^ more infrequently at his1 e °r his devotions ; and what are his prevailinghabits during the other days of the week ? Gran-md—-that he is not very precise in the dutieswinch he owes to God ; but is he more exact and16 THE MONTHLYconscientious in those which immediately relate toman ? Is it to him that you would look for apattern of every social and domestic virtue, of ho¬nour, benevolence, and integrity, as a man of pro¬perty or professional engagement,—of rectitude,veracity, and assiduity as a tradesman,—of industryand conscientiousness as a workman,—of fidelity asa servant,—of sobriety and diligence as the head orsubordinate member of a family, of kindness as ahusband, of affection and prudence as a parent, orof dutifulness and obedience as a child ? To lookfor such qualities in combination with gross sab¬bath-profanation, and with habitual neglect and con¬tempt of the appointed ordinances of the sanctuary,would obviously be to seek for light in darkness,virtue in vice, life in death.THE SEASON, IN THE COUNTRY.Sheep-Shearing.Sheep-shearing, one of the great rural labours ofthis delightful month, if not so full of variety asthe hay-harvest, and so creative of matter for those“ in search of the picturesque” (though it is scarce¬ly less so), is still more lively, animated, andspirit-stirring ; and it besides retains something ofthe character of a rural holiday, which ruralmatters need, in this age and in this country, morethan ever they did, since it became a civilized andhappy one. The sheep-shearings are the onlystated periods of the year at which we hear offestivities, and gatherings together of the loversand practisers of English husbandry ; for even theharvest-home itself is fast sinking into disuse, as aSCRAP BOOK. 17scene of mirth and revelry, from the want ofheing'duly encouraged and partaken in by the great onesof the earth ; without whose countenance andexample it is questionable whether eating, drinking,and sleeping, would not soon become vulgar prac-tices. and be discontinued accordingly ! In a stateof things like this, the Holkham an d Woburnsheep-shearings do more honour to their promotersthan all their wealth can purchase and all theirtitles convey. But we are getting beyond oursoundings: honours, titles, and “ states of things,”are what vve do not pretend to meddle with, es¬pecially when the pretty sights and sounds prepa¬ratory to and attendant on sheep-shearing, as amere rural employment, are waiting to be noticed.Now, then, on the first really summer’s day, thev hole flock being collected on the higher bank ofthe pool formed at the abrupt winding of the name¬less mill-stream, at the point, perhaps, where thelittle wooden bridge runs slantwise across it, andthe attendants being stationed waist-deep in themidwater, the sheep are, after a silent but obsti¬nate struggle or two, plunged headlong, one byone, from the precipitous bank ; when, after amoment of confused splashing, their heavy fleecesfloat them along, and their feet, moving by an in¬stinctive art which every creature but man posses¬ses, guide them towards the opposite shallows, thatsteam and glitter in the sunshine. Mid-way,how ever, they are fain to submit to the rude graspof the relentless w'asher, which they undergo withas ill a grace as preparatory schoolboys do the sameoperation. Then,gaining the opposite shore heavily,ISthe monthlythey stand for a moment till the weight of watereaves t em, and, shaking their streaming sides, gotreating away towards their fellows on the adjacentgreen, wondering within themselves what hasHappened.rhe shearing is no less lively and picturesque,and no less attended by all the idlers of the villageas spectators. The shearers, seated in rows besidele crowded pens, with the seemingly inanimateoac o eece in their laps, and bending intentlyoyer their work ; the occasional whetting and clap-pmg or the shears ; the neatly-attired housewives,waiting to icceive the fleeces ; the smoke from thetar-kettle, ascending through the clear air ; the^orn sheep escaping, one by one, from their tem¬porary bondage, and trotting away towards theirdistant brethren, bleating all the while for theirlambs that do not know them ; all this, with itsground of universal green, and finished every-whereby its leafy distances, except where the village spireintervenes, forms together a living picture, plea¬santer to look upon than words can speak, but stillpleasanter to think of, when that is the nearest ap¬proach you can make to it.COOKERY.s cookery is the most honourable, so it is themost ancient of sciences. There is no nation soutter y barbarous as to devour their food withoutsome previous preparation, and the appellation ofa “ cooking animal” may be truly considered astorming the most accurate specific definition of thehuman race. The progress of cookery is, in fact,BBSSCRAP BOOK. 19the progress of civilization ; and it is impossible totrace the improvement of the one, without havingour attention perpetually called to the gradationsof the other. In the very infancy of society, be¬fore* the invention of culinary utensils has occurredto his untutored understanding, the savage broilsbis food on the embers of bis fire, and satiates biscarnivorous appetite with a “ rasher on the coals.”When the introduction of a few of the ruder artshas brought with it a proportionate degree ofcivilization, he becomes naturally partial to a morerefined diet. He is speedily initiated into themanufacture of earthen vessels, and his meat being-placed in these, and heated on the fire, he now re¬gales his bowels with a “collup in the pan.” Ashe is probably not very particular about the me¬chanism of his^ac^, the step to roast and boil isbut a short one ; and the addition in the prepara¬tion of the latter of a few roots and herbs, will puthim in possession of something similar to barleybroth. Such are the dishes most consonant to asavage appetite, and which, in the exertion of thelimited means which he enjoys, he is most naturally-enabled to procure. Fixed to a single spot ofearth, he is without the means of communicationwith those, who enjoying a different soil and cli¬mate, could furnish him with higher pleasures, andafford new gratification to his palate. Of thecharms of curry, cayenne, mustard, catsup, andanchovy sauce, he is yet entirely ignorant. Manyages must elapse before he can hope to regale him¬self with Stilton cheese and Bologna sausages. Itis indeed impossible to look back on the depriva-20 THE MONTHLYtions of our forefathers without a sentiment of pity. )A roasted ox, and about a dozen large cauldrons iof greens, formed the common meal of the most)powerful Baron and his dependants. It is not two rcenturies since the Duchess of Northumberland Iusually made her breakfast on salt herrings. Yetieven in those days the profession of cookery was tnot wholly undistinguished by the royal favour. 1The manor of Addington, in Surrey, is still held iby the tenure of dressing a dish of soup for theKing at his coronation. Stow likewise, in hisSurvey of London > informs us, that Henry VIII. |granted an estate in Leadenhall-street to “ Mistress jCornnwallies, widdow, and her heirs, in reward offine puddings by her made, wherewith she hadpresented him.”—But perhaps the greatest triumphof human genius in this department was achievedjby the chief cook of Louis XIV. On a grandentertainment, he dressed a pair of his Majesty’sold slippers with such exquisite skill, that the Kingand his courtiers declared it to be the best d’.slthey had ever ate ! Such a man was indeed a:honour to his age and country : but, alas ! he ha:found no successor.Account of a Wedding Ceremony inCyprus.A few days ago we were present at a wedding othe servant of the English Consul, a native cLarneca, with a pretty looking girl of the samiplace. There was some disparity of years betweethem, as the bridegroom was about forty, and thftSCRAP BOOK. 21bride only eighteen. We had no sooner enteredthe room, than we were presented with a largewax-taper, with most of the guests, who sat onbenches round the room, and who lighted thosegiven to the most distinguished guests : we ob¬served that many of them blew theirs out again,and took it home with them. The bride wasdressed in a green silk robe, trimmed with silverlace, the covering on her bosom left but little forthe imagination to indulge upon, and was orna¬mented with a large nosegay ; a long white veilconcealed her face, but her taper hand and arm re¬mained uncovered. The bridegroom was vervplainly dressed, and from the large nosegay whichhe wore on his breast, appeared to be as great anadmirer of flowers as his bride. After a form ofprayer the rings were exchanged, and the bride¬groom kissed the cheek of his bride, who weptduring the whole ceremony. When the priestswere changing their rings, the parents and rela¬tions of the married couple threw small sugarplumes at them, and paras, a small silver coin,at the priests. These reverend gentlemen seemedto think it no insult to be pelted in this way, coollydeputed some of their attendants to collectthe pieces of money, and put them in a plate,which was held for that purpose. Pipes andcoffee were then brought, and the guests sat downto a supper, prepared on the occasion.22THE MONTHLY/VARIETIESWONDERS OF SCIENCEAnecdote of Capt. Basil Halt.That a man, by merely measuring the moon’s apparent distance from ra star, with a little portable instrument held in his hand, and applied Ito his eye, even with so unstable a footing as the deck of a ship, shallsay positively, within five miles, where he is, on a boundless ocean,cannot but appear to persons ignorant of astronomy an approach to the imiraculous. Yet the alternatives of life and death, wealth and ruin,are daily and hourly staked with perfect confidence on these marvelouscomputations. We have before us an anecdote communicated to us bya naval officer (Captain Basil Hall, R. N.) distinguished for the extentand variety of his attainments, which shows how impressive such resultsmay'become in practice. He sailed from San Bias, on the west coastof Mexico, and after a voyage of 8000 miles, occupyiug 89 days, arrivedoff Rio de Janeiro, having, in this interval, passed through the PacificOcean, rounded Cape Horn, and crossed the South Atlantic, withoutmaking any land, or even seeing a single sail, with the exception of an ,American whaler off Cape Horn. Arrived within a week’s sail of Rio,he set seriously about determining, by lunar observations, the preciseline of the ship's course, and its situation in it at a determinate moment, !and having ascertained this, within from five to ten miles, ran the restof the way by those more ready and compendious methods, known tonavigators, which can be safely employed for short trips between oneknown point and another, but which cannot be trusted in long voyages, iwhere the moon is the only sure guide. The rest of the tale we areenabled by his kindness to state in his own words ; —We steered to- iwards Rio de Janeiro for some days after taking the lunars above de-,;scribed, and having arrived within fifteen or twenty miles of the coast jI hove to at four'in the morning till the day should break, and thenbore up ; for although it was very hazy, we could see before us a coupleof miles or so. About eight o’clock it became so foggy that 1 did notlike to stand in further, and was just bringing the ship to the wind a-gain before sending the people to breakfast, when it suddenly cleared ioff, and I had the satisfaction of seeing the great Sugar Loaf Rock,, ijwhich stands on one side of the harbour’s mouth, so nearly right a-head athat we had not to alter our course above a point in order to hit the en- atrance of Rio. This was the first land we had seen for three months, 1after crossing so many seas and being set backwards and forewards byinnumerable currents and foul winds.’’ The effect on all on board! *might well be conceived to have been electric ; and it is needless to re-Mmark how essentially the authority of a commanding officer oyer hiaifcrew may be strengthened by the, occurrence of such incidents, indica-jflive of a degree of knowledge and consequent power beyond their reachkfjiSCiMP BOOK.23law for bachelors.rar-'mg power, that matrimony should be'free itTs^mnteT"151 thlS C°er'sliillisSfiHiSS^SsSS.’sjH:blc tenadty. H net, hoi l rSfl“ h:S,reVerence wit>‘ “nconque.1%e in a pinch duringTe’rmon TntSTe Zf^7 S° aS t0 i'1-ion, when the hearts of .011e c!ose' warm, weary after-reatened every moment to forowC" v'’ere llca'y, and his eyelidse hemmed, sLped and stSHhl pu XffhU ^hbours-lU, this wayf see • andVe mol 7 ? S'*’ J°hn- Ye took 0'^ yerplayed and tinhilin , g 38 ^ John i ^ich is a great sin Johu ft f * ”g Iiear ^ a goupm of macouba);* no more sTeerngt^rir ^ &C’’Mockinn- Jib A t I /iat afternoon at least.en notice of b; E^mp^n nafurahT ^ ll3Ve often beenlistening ,o the song of differenf b rV"^^"8 pleaSUre?e. Some of these persons have ,w ’k ^h ! In confincment or ate as occassionally fully equal to thns ” e l ,,e r!otes of tbe nightin-.. o/. 5xr:?r:s;”f.S5&yQ4 THE MONTHLYTar aButTco»pat\fefeS^o X “elTZToiZ mockingis a nominal ofRc , „ _ •. • we believe never paid, j,he Sttwardship MW. ” “ f tlZm'am, HiglJs„S »rpounds weight, amounting, on an averag f C P ;nment the 6U4jS* deservespyramid to her memory in Canton !GARDEN WORK IN JUNE.Continue to plant cabbages, caoliilouoi an.U ,voyo f'a late crop. Plant out leeks and broco 1, r.ansplacelery endive, and lettuces, and sow sallad seedseight or ten clays. Sow full crops of turnips, both yelkand white; also field turnip, ulnte,A'fcw “'‘the^iy Snd'of each T'SC'^asX--“S „ “"wM “and espaliers. Secure young tiees aga ’walks.June Irf- ho. m.Sun rises, 3All Twilight,—no realnight during the wholeof this month.June 30th. ho.Sun rises,,-sets,..i,uucyoiluuieir ream.