THE ENTERTAININGHISTORYOFMASONRY,TO WHICH .ARE ADDED,The Mafon-Word,AN DCATECHISM.By SAMUEL PRICHARD,Lite Member of a Conftituted Lodge. .PRINTED IN THE YEARI706.THEHiftory of Mafonry.laid on the foundation of the liberal ar|and fciences, but more efpecially on tl|fifth, viz, Geonietry: For, on the buildiij©f the Tower of Babel, the art of Mafomliwas firil introduced; and from thence han<|ed down by Euclid, a worthy and excelleilmathematician in Egypt. And he commlnicated it to Hiram the malter-mafon, co jicerned in the building of Solomon’s tempat Jerufalem; where was an excellent ancurious mafon, that was the chief undthe grand-mailer, Hiram, whofe name wMannon Grjecus, who taught the art'Mafonry to one Carolus Msrcel, ir I- ranCwho was afterwards elected kiwg ol rranoland from thence it was brought into Eitland, in the lime pi Ethelftane; who rrd«ed an afTembly to be held every ve?;rYork, which was the fir)! introduction oilORIGIN or MASONRY.original inflitution of Mafonry (into England And rthe manner following.And mafons were made .y. < 3 )Whilft one of the Seniors holdeth thebook, that he or they put their hands onthe book, whilft the mailer ought to real4*the laws or charges.Which charges were ; That they fliouldbe true to one another without exception,and Ihould be obliged to fee their brothersand fellows neceffities, or put them to la¬bour and reward them axcordingl)*.But in thefe latter days', Mafonry is notcompofed of artificers, as it was in its pri¬meval Hate, when fame few cateehifticaiquedions are only aectfLry, to declare aman fufficiently qualified for an operative'Mafon.The terms of free and accepted Mafonry*(as it now is) has not been iieard of till with¬in thefe few y<ars: no condituted lodges,or quarterly communications were heard oftill 1691, when lords and ^.ukes,, lawyersand fiiop-.keepers, and 0 her inferior tradef-men, porters not excep’ed, were admittedinto this myllery:,or no mvllery. Thefirli fnn being introduced at"a very > reatexpence,tlte feco-^d fort at a moderate rate,and the larter for at the expence of fix orfeven findings, for which they receive, theas thev term it; * hich is more ancientand honourable, t'^an the order of tfig fiar,and garter; whica anoqmty is accounted)f 4 )•according to t!ie rules of Mafonry, as dalivered by their tradition, evor ilnce Adan'which I fhall leave 'die candid reader tdetermine.From the; accepted Mafons Jprang threal Mafons: froni both iprung the -Got'mogans, whcfe Grand-Matter the Volgi del;,duces his original from the Chinefe, who! Iwritings, if to be credited, maintains th Iliypothefis of the Pre-Adamites, and confequently mull b^more ancient than MafonryThe moft free and grand fociety, is tha |of the grand Koihebar, which con fids of ?feledl company of repfonfible people, whofcdifcourfe is concerning trade and bufmefs.and promote friendfliip without compulfioror reftridlion.But if, after admiffion into the fecretrof Mafonry, any new brother lliould diflikcitheir proceedings, and reflect upon himfeUfor being fo eafily cajoled out of his moneydeclines the fraternity, or fecludes himfelfupon account of the quarterly expences ofthe lodge and quarterly communications,notwithftanding he has been legally admit¬ted into a conflituted and regular lodge, HeJhall be denied the privilege, as a vifitingBrother, of knowing the myftety for whichlie already paid, which is a manifell con-tr;.di£tion, according to the inftitution ofMafonry. itfelf, as will evidently appear byfthe following Treatife. . iEntered PRENTICE’s DECREE.(E'P’ROM whence came you?A. From the holy lodge of St.John’sQjWhat recommendation brought youfrom thence.A. The reccommenclation which I broughtfrom the right worfhipful Brothers and fel¬lows, of the right wor/hipful and holy lodgeof St. John’s, from whence I come andgreet you thrice heartily well.CF What do you come here to do?A. Not to do my own proper will.But to fubdue my paflion lli’l;The rules of Mafonry in hand to take,And daily progrefs therein to make.(E Are you a MafoniA. I am fo taken and accepted to be a-mong. Brothers and Fellows.Ch How can I know that you are a M&fon?A. By figns and tokens and perfect pointsof entrance.(,X What are figns ? A. All fquares,angles, and perpendiculars.Q. WThat are tokens ?A. Certain regular and brothely grips.Ex. Give me the points of your en¬trance ?Refp. Give me the firft, and I will giveyou the fecond.Ex. I bail it. Refp. I conceal it.( 6 )Ex. Wh At do you conceal ?Refp. A'd fecrets and fecrecy of Mafonsand Mafonry, unlcfs to a true and lawfulBrother, after due examination, or in a juftand v; or (hipful lodge of Brothers and fel¬lows well met.Sh Where was you made a Mafon ?A. In a juft and perf'eft lodge.Q. What makes a juft and perfect lodge?A. Seven or more. 'Q, W , at do’they confift of?A. One Mafter, twq fellow crafts, twoentered prentices.Q. What makes a. lodge?A. Five. Q. what do they confift of ?A. One Mafter, two wardens, one fel¬low craft, one entered ’prentice.Q. Who brought you to the lodge.A. An entered prentice.Q. How did he bring you ?A. Neither clothed nor naked, bare foot¬ed nor (hod, deprived of all metal, and \xa right, moving poftureHow got you admittance ?A., By three great knocks.Q. Who received you?A. a Junior Warden.i Q? How d’d lie difpofe of you ?A. He carried me to the north eaft partof the lodge, a.nd brought me back againto the weft, and delivered me to the SeniorWarden.( 7 )j What did the Senior Warden do with|rou?A. He presented rrje, and luC'yed me nowto walk up (by three heps) to the Matter.Q, What did the Mailer do with you?A. He made me a Mafon.Q. How did he make you a Mafon:Ai With my bare bended knee and myI body within the fquare, the compafs; extend¬ed to my naked left breaft, my naked righthand on the Holy Bible, there I took theobligation or oath of a Mafon.Q. Can you repeat that obligation?A. I will do my endeavour. Which isas follows.“ I Hereby folemnly vow and fwear inthe prefence of Almighty GOD and thisright worlhipful Affembly That I will hailand conceal, and never reveal the iecretsor fecrefy of Mafons or Mafonry that fhallbe revealed unto me unlefs to a. true andlawful Brother, after an examination, orin a jull and worfliipful lodge of Brothersand Fellows well met.I furthermore promife and vow, ThatI will not write them, print them, markthem, carve them or engrave them, or caufeMhem to be written carvecUor engraven, onwood or flone, fo as the vilible character orimpieffion of a letter may appear wherebyit may be unlawfully obtained. AH Ibisunder no lefs Penalty, than to hive my( 8 )throat cut, my tongue taken from the rooftof my mouth* my heart pluckt from unde»|-xny left bread, then to be buried in the fandslof the fea, the length of a cable rope from ,,the fliore, where the fea ebbs and flowsji,j^vAce in twenty-four hours, my body to bqthen burnt to afhes, my allies to be fcat-tered upon the face of the earth, fo thatthere lhall be no more remembrance of meamong Mafons.Q. What form is the lobge ?a. A long fquare.q. How long.3, a. From eaft towed.q. How broad? a. From north to fouth.q. How high ? . a. Inches, feet andyards innumerable; as high.as the clouds.q. How deep ?a. To the center of the earth.q. Where does the lodge dand?#a. Upon the highed hill or lowed vale,or in the valley of Jehofaphat or any otheriecret place. q. How is it dtoated ?a. Due ead and weft.q. Why fo?a. Becaufe all churches and chapels areor ought to be fo.Q. What fupports a lodge ?A. Three great pillars.Q. Wftat are they called ?A-Wifdom, to contrive: Strength, tofupport: and, Beauty, to adorn.I( 9 )/Q What is the covering of a lodge ?A. A cloudy canopy of divers colours,or the clouds.Q. Is there any furniture in a lodge ?A. Yes. What is it ?A. Mofaic pavements, blazing liar, andindented tai'fa!. CX What are they ?A. Mofaic pavement, the ground-floorof the lodge; blazing flar, the center; andindented tarfal, the border around it.Q. What.is the other furniture in a lodge?A. A Bible, compafs and fquare.CX Who do they properly belong to ?A. The Bible to God, the compafs tothe mailer, and fquare to the fellow-craft.Have you any jewels in the lodge ?A. Yes. Q. How many.A. Six: 3 moveable, and 3 immoveable.Q. What are the rpoveable jewels?A". The fquare, level and plumb-rule.• Q. What are their ufes ?A. A fquare, to lay down true and rightlines; a level, to try all horizontals; and,the plumb-rule, to try all uprights.Q. What are the immoveable jewels ?A. The trazel-board, rough-afbler andbroached thurnal. CX What are their ufes ?A. A trazel-board, for the mailer, todraw his dcfignsupon; rough-alhler, forthe fellow-craft, to try their jewels upon;and, the broached thurnal, for the entered’prentice, to learn to work upon.( IO )Q Have you any light in the lodge?A. Yes, 3. What do they neprefent?A. The fun. moon a;.d tnafler-raat'on ?N. B. Thefe lights are 3 large candles,priced 'n high candle ricks.CX Why To ? A. T - inn, to rule theclay; the moon, the nigh,; and the mailer-raafon, his h-dge.Q, Have you any fixed lights in thelodge ? A. Yes.Q. How many ? A. Three.IT B. Thefe fixed lights are 3 windows,fuppofed, though vainly, to be in everyroom where a lodge is held; but more pro¬per, by the four cardinal points, accordingto the antique rules of mafonry.Q. How are they fituated ?A. Kaih fouth and well; to light the m<;nto, at and from their work-Q. 7/iiy Irt tnere no lights in the north?A. Becaufe the fun darts no rays fromthence. Q. Where Hands your mailer ?A. In the call. Q. Why fo ?A. As the fun rifes in the eaft, and opensthe day; fo the mailer Hands in the call,with his right hand upon his left breafl,being a fign, and the fquare about his neck,to open the lodge, and fet his men at work.(Y Where Hands your wardens ?A. In ihe welt.Q, What is their bufinefs ?A. As the fun fets in the weft, to clofe( II )^ the day; fo the wardens Hand in the weft,} with their right hand upon their left breafls,1 being a fign, and the level and plumb-ruleI about their necks, to dole the lodge, anddifmifs the men from their labour, payingt their wages.i m Where Hands the fenior entered’Prentice ? A. In the fouth.What is his bufinefs ?A. To hear and receive inftru&ions,and welcome ftrange brothers.Where Hands the junior entered’Prentice ? A. In the north.Q. What is his bufinefs ?A. To keep off cowans and eves-droppers.Qt I? * cowan or liftner is catched, howis he to be puniftied ?A. He is to be placed under the eves ofthe houles, in rainy weather, till the waterrun in at his ihoulders and cut at his fhoes.Q. What are the fecrets cf a mafon 2A. Signs, tokens and many words.Where do you keep thofe. fecrets?A. Under my left breaft.Have yon anv key to thofe fecrets?A. Yes. Q. Where do you keep it?A. In a bone-box, that neither opens norflints but with ivory keys.Q. Does it hang, or does it lie ?A. It hangs. Ch What does it hang by ?A. By a tow line, nine inches or a fpan.( 12 )(X What metal is it made of?A. No manner of metal at all, but atongue of tgood report behind a brother^back, or before his face.N. B. The key is the tongue, the bone-box the teeth, the tow line the roof of themouth, (X How many principles arcthere in mafonry ? A. Four.Q What are they ?A. Point-line, fuperficials and folid.Q. Explain them.A. Point, the center line, round whichthe mailer cannot err, length withoutbreadth. Superficials, length and breadth.Solid comprehends the whole.Q, How many principal figns are there ?A. Four. Qi What are they ?A. Gutteral, the throat: Pectoral, thebrealt: Manuel,the hand: Pedeltal,the feet.Q. What do you learn by being a gentle¬man mafon?A. Secrecy, morality and good fellowfliip.Q. What do you learn by being an ope¬rative mafon ?A. To hew, fquare, mould ftone, laya level, and raife a perpendicular.CX Have you fee.n your mafter to-day ?A. Yes. How was he cloathed ?A. In a yellow jacket and a blue pairof breeches.N. B. The 3'ellow jacket is the compaffes,and the blue breeches is the Heel points.f( 13 )How long do you ferve your mailer ?A. From Monday ••morning till Saturday-night. CX How do you f<%ve him ?A. With chalk, charcoal and earthenpah. Q. What do they denote ?A- Freedom, fervency and zeal.Ex. Give me the entered’Prentice’s fign ?Refp. Extending the four fingers of theright hand, and drawing them acrofs histhroat, is the fign, and demands a token.N. B. A token is, by joining the ball ofthe thumb of the right hand to the firflknuckle of the fore-finger of the Brother’sright hand, that demands a v/ord.Give me. the word ?A. I will letter it with you.Ex. BOAZ. N. B. The Ex. fays B.Refp. O. Ex. A. Refp. Z. i. e. BOAZ.Ex. Give me another ?Refp. JACHIN.N. B. Boaz and Jachin, were two pillarsin Solomon’s porch, i Kings vii. 21.How old are you ?A. Under feven. (Denoting he has notpalled Mailer.)What is the day for ?Q;, What is the night for?CX How blows the wind ?A. Due call and weft.What o’clock is it? A. High twelve.A. To fee in.A. To hear.( ’4 )FELLOW-CRAFT’S DEGREE.CX \ RE ySa a fellow-craft ?^ A. I am.^Vhy was you m*de a fellow-craft ?A. For the fake of the letter (r.y. What does that G denote ?a. Geometry, pr the fifth fcience lq. Did you ever travel*?a. Yes, eait and wed.q. Did you ever work.a. Yes, in the building of the temple.q. Where did you receive wages ?a. In the middle chamber.a: Through the porch, what did you fee?a. Two great pillars.q. What are they called ?a. y. B. i, e, JacBin and Boaz.q. How high are they ?a. Eighteen cubits. .q. How much in circumference?a. Twelve cubits.q. What are they adorned with?n<7. Two chapiters,y. How high were the chapiters?a. Five cubits, (i Kings vii.)q. What are they adorned with ?a. Net work and pomegranets.q. How came you to the middle chamber?a. By a winding pair of fiairs.q. How many? a. Seven or more.( '5 )q. "^’hy feven or more ?a. Becanfe leven or more make a jailand ptmfett lodge.q. Wlien you came to the door of themiddle.chamber,, who did you fee?a. ' Warden.q. What did he demand of you?a. Three things. y. what are they?a. A fign, token and word.' N.B. The fign is, placing the right h-andon the left breaft; the token is, by joiningyour right hand to the perfon that demandsit, and fqueezing him with the ball of thethumb of the fifft knuckle of the middlefinger, and the word is J AC HIN.-q. How high was the door of the middlechamber ?a\ So hi*h that a cowan could not reach“o - *it to ftick a pin in.q. When you came into the middle chant-ber, what did you fee.a. The refemblance of the letter G.q. What doth that G denote?a. One that is greater than you.q. Who is greater than I, that am a freeand accepted mafon, the Mailer of a lodge ?a. The Grand Architect and Contriverof the Univerfe, or he that was taken up tothe top of the pinacle of the holy temple,q. Can you repeat the letter G.a. I will do my endeavour.Q: Wliat means the letter G.Refp. In mid.t of Solomon’s temple thereHands a G,A letter fair to all to read and fee;But few there be who underftands•Vhat means the letter G.Ex. My friend if you pretend to beOi this fraternity,You can forthwith and rightly tellWhat means the letter G.Refp. By Iciences are .brought to lightBodies of various kinds, *Which do appear to perfeft fight,None but males fhall know my mind.Ex: The right fltall. Refp. If worfhipful.Ex. Both right and worihipful learn,To hail you I have command,That you do forthwith let me know,as you may underftand.Refp. By LettersTour and Science five,_this G upright does Hand,In due art and proportion,You have your anfwer friend.N. B. Four letters are BQAZ, fifth ScienceGeometry.Ex. My friend you anfwer well, •If right and free principles you difcover,I’ll change your name from friend,and henceforth call you brother.Refp. The fciences are well compofed,Of noble firufhire’s verfe,a point, a line, and an outfide,But a folid is the lafi.( 17 )Good greeting be to this our happymeeting. And all the right vvorlhipfulBrothers and Fellows.Ex. Of the Right Worfliipful andholy Lodge of St. John’s.Refp. From whence came.Ex. Greet you, greet you thrice heartilywell, craving your name.Relp. Timothy Redicule.Ex. Welcome, Brother.N. B. The reafon why they denominatedtbemfelves of the Lodge of St. jbhn’s is,becaufe he was the forerunner of our Savi¬our, and laid the firh parallel bpe of theGofpel : Others do aflert, that our Saviourhimfelf was accepted a free Mafon whilehe was in the fie lb; but how ridiculousand profane it feems, I leave to the judici¬ous readers to confider. ,End of the Fellow craft's Part.44U44THE MASTER’S DEGREE.q. Are you a Mafon ?a, I am : try"tne, prove me, difapproveme, if you can.q. Where was you pafied Matter i1a. In a perfect lodge of Matters.q. What makes a perfect lodge of Maf-ters ? ^ a. Three.( *8 )q. Hov/ came you to be pailed Mailer ?a. By the help of the Square and myown induftry.y. How was you paffed a Mailer ?a. From the fquare to the compafs.Ex. An enter’d Prentice, I prefume youhave been. •Refp. Jacuxn and Boaz I have feen.a mafler-mafon I was made mod rare,With diamond, aihler and the fquare.Ex. If a matter-mafon you would be,Ypu mull underfland the rule of three :Aiid^MB fit all make you free.(*M,Benach)And \\|hat you want in mafonry,Shall in this lodge be diown to thee.Refp. Good mafonry I underhand,The keys of all lodges are at my command.Ex. You are a heroic fellow, fromwhence came you? Refp. From the call.Ex. Where are you g»ing ?Refp. To the weft.Ex. What are you going to do there?Ref. To feek that which was loft, and isnow found.Ex. What is that which was loft, and isnow found? Ref. The mafter-mafon s word.Ex. How was it loft ?Refp. By three great knocks, or the deathof our mafter Hiram.Ex. In the building of Solomon’s templehe was mafter-mafon ; and at high twelveat noon, when the men were gone to refrefii( *9 )themfelves, as was the ufual cufloro, he'came to furvey the works; and when hewas entered into the temple, there werethree ruffians (fuppofed to be three fellow-crafts) planted themfelves at the three en¬trances of the temple : and when he cameout, one demanded the mafon’s word ef him,and he replied, he did not receive it in fucha manner; but time and patience wouldbring him to it. They not being iatisiiedwith this anfwer, gave him a blow, whichmade him reel3 he went to the other gate,'where being accofted in the fame manner,and making the fame reply, he received agreater blow, the third gave him his quietus.Ex. What did the ruffians kill himwith ? Refp. A fetting maul, fetting tooland beacle. Ex. How did they difpofeof him ? Refp. They carried, out atthe well door of the temple, and hid himtinder fome rubbiffi till high twelve.Ex. What time was that?Refp. High twelve at night, whiifl themen were at reft.Ex. How did they difpofe of him after¬wards? Refp. They carried him up tothe brow of a hill, where they made adecent grave, and buried him.Ex. When was he miffed?Refp. The fame day.Ex. When was he found?Refp. Fifteen days afterwards-.( 20 )Ex. Who found him?Refp. Fifteen loving brothers, by orderof king Solomon, <vent out of the door of•the temple, and divided themfelves fromright to left, within call of each other; andthey agreed, that if they did not find theword in him or about him, the firfi: wordfliould be the Mailer’s word: One of theBrothers being more weary than the relt,fat clown to reft himfelf, and taking hold ofa ftirub, which came eafily up, and per-.ceived the ground to have been broke,he hailed his brethren, and purfuing theirfearch, found him decently buried in a hand-fome grave, 6 foot eaft, and 6 foot weft, ■and 6 foot perpendicular, and his coveringwas green mofs and turf, which furprifedthem; whereupon they replied, MajueusDomus Die Gratia; which according toniafonry is, thanks be given, our mailer hasgot a mofty houfe. So they covered himciofely, and as a further ornament, placed afprijj of Gallia at the head of his grave andwent and acquainted King Solomon.Ex. What did King Solomon fay of allthis? He ordered him to be taken up anddecently buried; and that fifteen fellowcrafts, with white gloves and aprons, Ihouldattencf the funeral, (which among mafonsought to he performed to this day)Ex. flow was Hiram railed ?Refp. As all other Mafons are, whe*I ( 21 ) 'they , receive the Maher’s word.1 Ex. How is that ?Refp. By the five points of fellowfliip.Ex. What are they ?x Hand to hand ; foot to foot; 3 cheekto1, cheek; 4 knee to'knee; and 5 hand toback. 'N: B. When Hiram was taken up, theytook him By the fore-fingers, and the fkincame off, which is called the flip: the fpread-ing of the right, hand, placing the middlefinger to the wrift, olafping the fore-fingerand fourth to the fides of the wrift, is calledthe grip; and the flip is placing the thumbof the right hand to the left break, extend¬ing the lingers.Ex. What is the mafter-mafon named ;Refp. Caflia is my name,And from a juft and perfect lodge I came.Ex. Where was Hiram entertained?Refp. In the Sandtum Sandtorum.Ex. How was he brought in?Refp. At the weft door of the temple.Ex. What are the mailer’s jewels ?Refp. The porch, dormer and fquarepavement. Ex. Explain them ?Refp. The Porch, the entring into theSandtum Sandtorum, the dormer of thewindows, or lights within the fquare pave¬ment, the ground flooring.Ex, Give me the mafltr’s word ?Refp. Whffpers in the ear, and fupported( 22 ) . Aby the five points of fellowfhip, before-1mentioned, fays Mackhenach, which iigni-1fies the builder is fmitten.N.B. If any working mafonsare at work, fand you have a defire to diftinguifh accep¬ted mafons from the reft, take a piece of{lone, and alk him what it fmells ol ? Hewill immediately reply, Neither of brafs,iron nor fteel, but of a mafon. Then alkhim how old he is ? and he will reply, Aboutfeven: which denotes he has pafted mafter,The end of the Mnfter's part.P S 1 was induced to publifh this mightySecret, at the requeft of feveral mafons, inorder to prevent many credulous perfonsfrom impofition.A PRAYER,SAID AT THE OPENING OF A LODGE, ’By f eiv!jh Free-Mcfons.f \ Lord, excellent thou art in thy truth,^ and there is nothing great in comp^ri-fon to. thee: for thine is the praife, from ailthe works of thy hands, forevermore.Enlighten us we beieeck thee, in the trueknowledge ofMafonry. Bv the i'orrows ofAdam thy firf n ade m n; by the blood01 Abel, thy holy one, by the righteoufnefs( 2? )of Seth, in whom thou art well pleafed; andby the covenant with Noah, iii whole ar-chite&ure thou was pleafed to fave thefeed of thy beloved: number us not amongthofe that knew not the ftatutes, nor thedivine myHeries of the fecret Caboalla.But grant, we befeech thee, that the rulerof this lodge may be* endued with know¬ledge and wifdom, to inftrudt us and ex¬plain his fecret rayfteries, as pur holybrother Mofes did (in his lodge) to Aaron,to Eleazer and Ithamar, the Ions of Aaron,and the feventy elders of Ifrael.And grant that we may underfland, learn,and keep all the hatutes and commandmentsof the Lord, and this holy myilery, pureand undefiled unto our 4ves end, amen,Lord.In the Preface to the Mishnaw, 'we find thistradition of the fetus explained as Joltotvs.GOD not only delivered the law toMoles on Mount Sinai, but the explanationof it likewile. When Mofes c me downfrom the Mount and entered into his tent,Aaron went to vifit him; and Mofes ac¬quainted Aaron with the laws he h; d re*ceived from GOD, together v> i’h the ex-planat'n n of them; after this Aaron placi dh’mfeU at the ngt t hand o. Moles andEleaztr and Ithamar (Ions of Aaron) who( *4 )were admitted, to whom Mofes repeatedwhat he had juft before told to- Aaron:thefe being feated the one on the right handthe other en the left hand of Mofes; thefeventy elders of Ifrael, who compofed theSanhedrim, came in, and-Mofes again de- 'dared the fame laws to them, with the in¬terpretations of thejn, as he had done beforeto Aaron and his Tons. Lallly, all who pleaf-ed, of the common people, were invited toenter; and Mofes inftrudted them like wifein the fame manner as the reft. So thatAaron heard four times what Mofes hadbeen taught by God upon Mount Sinai,Eleazer and Ithamar three times, the feven¬ty elders twice, and the people once. Mof¬es afterwards reduced the laws he had re¬ceived into writing, but not the explana¬tion of them; thefe he thought it fufficientto trull to the memories of the above men¬tioned perfons, who being perfe&ly inftruc-ted in them, delivered them to their children,and thefe again to theirs, from age to age.FINIS./