!OILftL2IO&&2. V=3 o oXa s^ a o*’ a oX'-bHISTORY OFPAUL JOIES,THEPIRATE.ubc,(T C! •h -i mV^O^NBuR9,r1^GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.. iirn • vv: ; i?oi k?eh EarI ' e, . oj.itLIFE OFPAUL JONES.»This extraordinary character, who kept the coastsof the United Kingdom in a constant state of alarmfor a considerable time, was born on the estate ofLord Selkirk, near Kirkcudbright, in Scotland,about the year 1728. His father's name was Paul,a steady methodical Scotchman, who was headgardener to Lord Selkirk, to whom young Paulacted as assistant in the same establishment, aswill appear from the following story recorded ofthe father and the son :—In the gardens there were two summer-housesalike. One day Lord Selkirk, in his walks, ob¬served a man locked up in one of the summer¬houses, and looking out of the window. In theother young Paul appeared, looking out of the cor¬responding window, which induced his lordship toenquire of the gardener why those lads were con¬fined ; to which the gardener replied, “ My lord, Icaught the rascal stealing your lordship’s fruit.”“ But,” says his lordship, “there are two of them;what has your son done : is he also guilty ?” OldPaul cooly replied, “ Oh no, please your lordship,I just put him in for the sake of symmetry.”In this service ho continued for some years, butat length being detected in certain knavish tricks,which would have entitled him to a situation inthe summer-house, or some closer place of confine¬ment. on other grounds than those of symmetry, he1was dismissed from the employ of Lord Selkirk.And now being at liberty to follow the bent of hisinclination, being of a wild and ardent disposition,he betook himself to a sea-faring-life, for whichhis habits, and the experience he had gained by along residence near to a seaport, had well preparedhim. Ho commenced his naval career as a com¬mon sailor, in which subordinate situation ho didnot remain long, for his talents still rendered himconspicuous, and ho was appointed mate ; and hav¬ing made several voyages to the West Indies ascommon sailor and mate he was at last appointedmaster of a vessel.Shortly after the rupture between Great Britainand America, he happened to be at Piscataway, in-Vew England, and being prompted partly by aspirit of revenge, and partly by the prospect ofplunder in predatory warfare offered by the ap¬proaching war. he was induced to desert his nationalstandard, and enlist under that of the revolution¬ists ; and on this account he changed his name,from John Paul to that of Paul Jones. For thisnew and busy scene of action, his enterprising dis¬position and talents were admirably adapted ; andthese, in addition to his complete knowledge of thenorthern coasts of Great Britain in particular,which were the least defended, soon brought himinto notice, and pointed him out as a proper leaderin the maurading schemes then in agitation. Ac¬cordingly, in the latter part of the year 1777, hewas actively employed, as commander, in fittingout the Ranger privateer, mounting 18 guns, andseveral swivels, and manned with a desperatelydaring crew of 150 men. In the course of thewinter he put to sea, and made two captures onthe European side of the Atlantic ; both of whichprizes he sent into a French port.In the month of April, 1778, he made his ap-Dpearance in his new and desperate character, forthe first time, in the neighbourhood of his nativeplace, and immediately proceeded to put in execu¬tion a well-digested plan for burning and destroy¬ing the town and shipping of Whitehaven. Hav¬ing made the land, in order to avoid observation,he cautiously kept the offing; but, at the closeof evening, having made the necessary prepara¬tions, he stood in towards the shore ; and at mid¬night, having approached sufficiently near, he des¬patched his boats, with thirty daring fellows, wellarmed, who pushed off in deep silence from thevessel. The bay and entrance of the harbour wascommanded by a small battery, and it was neces¬sary to secure this before they could venture to pro¬ceed farther. Having made good their landing,the party rushed upon the small garrison beforeany alarm could be given, and made them prison¬ers. They immediately spiked all the guns of thebattery, and every thing promised complete suc¬cess to the daring enterprise of the assailants. Itwas low water, and the vessels in harbour werelaying close together, and there seemed no chanceof escape from total destruction, should they beonce fired, and the flames get a-head. Having noexpectation of such an unwelcome visit, no watcheswere set on board the ships, and the inhabitants ofthe town were quietly reposing in their beds, insupposed security. In the fullest confidence, there¬fore, the armed party dispersed themselves, and de¬posited matches ready primed, amidst combustibles,on the decks and in the riggings of the several ves¬sels in the harbour. Nothing more was now re¬quired to complete their destruction, than the sig¬nal for setting fire to the trains. At this criticalconjuncture the inhabitants of the main street werealarmed by a loud knocking at their doors, and analarm was spread in every direction. The assail-tiants now perceived that they wore discovered, andnothing remained for them bnt to begin in hastetheir work of destruction ; for the alarm havingbeen general, crowds were observed running to¬wards the piers, attracted by the lights which themarauders, on their retiring, were hastily throwingon board the vessels, and fortunately without effect,only one being seriously scorched, as the crews,aided by the townsmen, succeeded in extinguish- jing the flames before they reached the rigging.—Foiled in their desperate attempt, the privateer’smen reached their boats, and putting off in sullenchagrin, got on board their ship in safety.On mustering the crew, one of the party wasmissing, and it was to that man the people ofWhitehaven were indebted for the preservation oftheir lives and property ; for, influenced either byconscientious or self-interested motives, he hadquitted his companions when they were busy inthe harbour, and proceeded hastily up the mainstreet, knocking loudly at every door, by which hehad roused the inhabitants from their beds, andcalled upon them to save their lives and property.Jones having completely failed in this enterprise,made the best of his way across the Solway Frithtowards the coast of Scotland, and entered theriver Dee, forming the harbour of Kirkcudbright,with the dawn of the morning. A little above itsjunction with the sea, the river Dee expands into akind of estuary. Here, where the river is about amile and a half in width on a promontory, or ratherisland, stands the castle of Lord Selkirk, St Mary’sJole, within a very little distance of a spot endear¬ed to Jones by the strongest ties, and the earliestassociations ; and here a little after sun-rise, Jonesdropped his anchor. Early in the morning theprivateer had been observed making her way upthe river-—her guns and warlike appearance, at-7tracting attention, and exciting much curiosity, asvessels of that description were very seldom seenworking up the intricate passage of the Dee. Noneentertained a suspicion of the true character of theprivateer ; but the male part of the populationlooked upon her as a guest equally to be dreaded,for they supposed her to be a ship of war comingup, in order to impress seamen, or others for thenavy. On this account, at an early hour. LadySelkirk (his lordship being fortunately in Londonat the time) was informed of the arrival of the sup¬posed king’s ship ; and the men-servants presentedtheir request to her ladyship, for leave to absentthemselves, for the purpose of concealment. Theprivateer, immediately on casting anchor, sent anarmed boat ashore, and the crew landing, strolledabout, without appearing to have any particularobject in view, and after some time took again totheir boat, and returned to the privateer. Before,however, the people had recovered from their firstalarm, they again observed the boat pushing off forthe shore, and in a little time a body of armedmen landed on the beach, uninterrupted by the un¬suspecting people. They did not now stroll aboutas before, but in regular order marched directly tothe castle, which they immediately surrounded,and then, for the first time, a suspicion of the realcharacter of their visitors was excited. Lady Sel¬kirk and her children were then the only membersof the family resident in the castle; her ladyshiphad just finished breakfast, when she received asummons to appear before the officer commandingthe party. She obeyed the summons, with appre¬hensions of danger, which were not abated on ap¬proaching the party, whose ferocious appearanceand ragged dress too plainly betokened their hos¬tile purpose ; and as it now appeared that plunderwas their chief object, the wor-t might be expected,sshould any resistance be ottered. The diversity ofarms with which the party wore equipped, fartherconfirmed the ill opinion entertained of the mar¬auders ; these consisted of muskets, pistols, swords,&c., and one fellow bore an American tomahawkover his shoulder. Two officers commanded theparty—the one rude in his manner—the othercourteous and respectful, and apologized to hex-ladyship for the unpleasant duty in which it wasunfoi’tunately his lot to appear as the principal.Their first enquix-y was for the appearance ofLord Selkii-k; and on being assured that he wasnot in that pai't of the country, they expressed con¬siderable disappointment. After a short pause, theofficer who had treated her ladyship with the mostrespect, said, he must request the production of allthe plate in her possession. She answered, thatthe plate which was in the castle was but small inquantity, but, such as it was, they should have it.Accordingly, the whole was laid before them, eventhe silver tea-pot which was used at breakfast, andwhich had not since been washed out. The officer,on receiving it, ordered his men to pack it all up,and apologising to the lady for his conduct, he re¬tired with his pai-ty, and returned to the ship,leaving the family not a little pleased at their es¬cape from a worse fate, which they apprehended.Still, however, as the ship did not immediately getunder weigh, her ladyship entertained fears of asecond visit, which, however, were fortunately un¬founded, as in a few hours the privateer proceededto sea. Lady Selkh'k was still more gratified, ina few days, by the receipt of a letter from Jones,written in a romantic style, in which he entreatedher ladyship’s pardon for the late affront—assuringher, that so far from having been suggested orsanctioned by him, he had exerted his influence inorder to prevent it ; but his officers and crew hadinsisted on the enterprise, in the hope of gettingpossession of the person of Lord Selkirk, for whoseransom they anticipated a considerable sum mightbe realized. Tins Jones declared was the objectof their first visit; in which having failed, theybegan to murmur on their return on board, andinsisted on landing again, and plundering thecastle, he was reluctantly obliged to give his as¬sent. As a proof of his innocence, he added, thatlie would endeavour to purchase of them the plun¬der they had so disgracefully brought away, andtransmit the whole, or such as he could obtain, toher ladyship.Several years elapsed without hearing from Jones,and all hope of the realizement of his promise hadvanished ; but, in the spring of the year 1783, tothe great and agreeable surprise of her ladyship,the whole of the plate was returned, carriage paid,precisely in the same condition in which it hadbeen taken away, the tea-leaves remaining in thetea-pot as they were left after the breakfast, on themorning of their visit to the castle.The report of the landing of Jones’s party hadspread rapidly through the country, and it reachedLondon with every species of exaggeration. LordSelkirk received the report, with all the additionsit had accumulated in its progress to London, thathis castle had been burnt to the ground, and hisfamily made prisoners ; he immediately left thecapital, and hastened northward ; and it was notuntil he had reached about half-way, that hisanxiety was relieved by correct information of thereal state of the affair.Jones, on clearing the land, now stood to thenorthward, and towards evening making the Irishcoast, he entered Belfast Loch, and as he proceed¬ed, either burning or capturing several fishing-boat-. He was soon descried by Captain Burden,10of the Drake sloop of war, of 14 guns, and 100men, who conceiving the privateer to be a mer¬chantman, ordered a boat to be manned, and des¬patched her for the purpose of impressing some ofthe crew of the privateer. On coming alongside,the boat’s crew immediately boarded the supposedmerchantman, but they soon found they had caughta tartar, for they were immediately secured.Captain.Burdon perceiving that his boat did notmake any shew of returning, and observing thesupposed trader crowding sail, now suspected thatsomething was wrong, and lost no time in givingchase, and preparing for action. On coming upwith the privateer the Drake opened a sharp fire,but owing to the darkness of the night it couldnot be continued with effect, and the ships separat¬ed ; but when daylight appeared, the engagementwas renewed with vigour, and gallantly maintainedfor more than an hour, when Capt. Burden and thefirst lieutenant of the Drake being killed, twenty ofthe crew disabled, a topmast shot away, and theship very seriously damaged, she was under the ne¬cessity of surrendering to the privateer.The coasts on both sides of the Channel beingnow in a state of alarm, Jones deemed it impru¬dent and unsafe to remain longer in that quarter ;he therefore made all sail with his prize towardsBrest the port of which he reached without inter¬ruption, when he communicated the success he hadmet with, and the other results of his cruise, to theAmerican representative then resident at Paris,the celebrated Dr Franklin, who strongly censuredthe piratical attack upon St Mary’s Isle.After Jones had attained the rank of commander,he paid a visit to the coast of Northumberland,which was the occasion of the fitting out of twoarmed vessels in the river Tyne, viz : the Anti-gallican, and the Heart-of-Oak privateers—tire for-11mer of which sailed on the 6th, and the other oni the 24th March, 1779, amidst the acclamations ofall on both shores of the Tyne ; but they were notso fortunate as to fall in with the enemy, for he re¬appeared off Tynemouth in the month of May fol¬lowing, and again in the middle of August thesame year, when he lay off Newbiggin for nearly awhole day, and was seen by great numbers of spec-i tutors.The following winter, Jones commanded the BonHomme Richard, of 40 guns, with a complementof 370 men, in which he acted as commodore ; hav¬ing under his command also the Alliance frigate,, of 36 guns, and 300 men ; the Vengeance brig, of14 guns and 70 men: and a cutter of 18 guns, allin the service of the American Congress. ThePallas, a French frigate, was also added to hissquadron. He sailed with this small, yet formid¬able squadron, from Port POrient in July, 1779,and made his appearance off the coast of Kerry,where he sent his boat’s crew ashore, in order tobring off some sheep ; but the people having as¬sembled to defend their property, they secured theassailing party, and sent the prisoners to Traleegaol. From thence he sailed northward, ran downthe eastern coast of Scotland, making captures inhis progress of a store-ship from Quebec, and manyother valuable prizes, all of which he ordered tosail to France. On the 14th of September he wasoff Duidear, and seen to capture two prizes close inshore. No adequate force being at that period inthe north, a circumstance of which he appears tohave been well apprised, he dispatched his ships invarious directions, and at last resolved on the boldand hazardous attempt of burning the shipping inthe harbour of Leith, and collecting tribute fromthe undefended towns on the coast of Fife, boldlyentered the Frith of Forth, and dashing up, came12in sight of Leith and Edinburgh on the 16th Sep¬tember. The tide running down, and the windblowing strong from the westward, he came to ananchor under the island of Inch Keith, nearly op¬posite to Kirkcaldy, in Fifeshire. On the follow¬ing morning he weighed anchor, and endeavouredto beat up for Leith harbour ; but the breeze in¬creasing to a violent gale, ho sprung one of his top¬masts, which compelled him to bear up, and pro¬ceed down the Frith with such rapidity, that hewas very soon beyond the reach of sight.While laying off the town of Kirkaldy, it is re¬ported that ho sent a summons to the inhabitantsfor contribution, threatening, in the event of a de¬nial, to fire into the town. Many of the inhabi¬tants had collected upon the beach, among whomappeared a venerable and reverend minister of thetown, (Mr Shireff) who exhorted the people tocourage and confidence in the Supreme Being, whowould not allow' the enemy to do them any injury—and offered up a prayer to the Almighty, that hewould avert the impending danger. Shortly after¬wards the wind blew so strong that the Bon Hom¬me Richard could not remain in the Frith, butwas compelled to go before the wind. On hearingthis, Jones is said to have attributed the changeof weather to this good man’s prayer, “ Deus flam-,mabantur.” Foiled in this attempt at destroyingthe shipping in Leith harbour and roads, Jones re¬joined his squadron, and proceeded to cruise off thecoast of England, where, on the 23d day of Sep¬tember, he fell in with a British convoy from theBaltic, under escort of his Majesty’s ship, the Se-rapis, of 44 guns, commanded by Capt. Pearson,and the Countess of Scarborough armed ship, oftwenty guns, commanded by Capt. Thos. Piercy :the result was one of the most memorable navalactions on record in the annals of the navy.The conduct of Captain Pearson in this affairexceeded all praise, and he was nobly supported byhis companion, Captain Piercy. The followingaccount of the battle was sent to the Lords of theAdmiralty by the brave Captain Pearson :—“ Pallas Frigate, in Congress service,Texel, October G, 1770.“ On the 23d ult. being close in with Scarboroughabout twelve o’clock, a boat came on board with aletter from the bailiffs of that corporation, giving-information of a flying squadron of the enemy’sships being on the coast, and of a part of the saidsquadron having been seen from thence the day be¬fore standing to the southward. As soon as I re¬ceived this intelligence, I made the signal for theconvoy to bear down under my lee, and repeatedit with two guns ; notwithstanding which the vanof the convoy kept their wind, with all sail stretch¬ing out to the southward from under Flamborough-head, till between twelve and one, when the head¬most of them got sight of the enemy’s ships, whichwere then in chase of them. They then tacked,and made the best of their way under the shore forScarborough, letting fly their topgallant sheets,and firing guns ; upon which I made all the sail Icould to windward, to get between the enemy’sships and the convoy, which I soon effected. Atone o’clock we got sight of the enemy’s ships fromthe mast-head, and about four we made them plainfrom the deck to be three large ships and a brig ;upon which I made the Countess of Scarborough’ssignal to join me, she being in shore with the con¬voy ; at the same time I made the signal for theconvoy to make the best of their way, and repeatedthe signal with two guns. I then brought to, tolet the Countess of Scarborough come up, andcleared ship for action.14“ At hall' past live the Countess of Scarboroughjoined me, the enemy’s ships bearing down uponus with a light breeze at S. S. W.; at six tackedand laid our head in shore, in order to keep ourground the better between the enemy’s ships andthe convoy ; soon after which we perceived theships bearing down upon us to be a two-deck’d shipand two frigates, but from their keeping end uponus in bearing down, wo could not discern whatcolours they were under. At 20 minutes past 7,the largest ship of the three brought to on our lee-bow, within musket-shot. I hailed him, and askedwhat ship it was ? They answered in English thePrincess Royal. I then asked where they belongedto? They answered evasively—on which I toldthem, if they did not answer directly, I would lireinto them. They then answered with a shot,which was instantly returned with a broadside;and after exchanging two or three broadsides, hebacked his topsails and dropped upon our quarter,within pistol-shot; then filled again, put his helma-weather, and ran us on board upon our weatherquarter, and attempted to board us, but being re¬pulsed, he sheered off: upon which I backed ourtopsails, in order to get square with him again:which, as soon as he observed, he then filled, puthis helm a-weather, and laid us athwart hawse ;his mizen shrouds took our jib-boom, which hunghim for some time, till it at last gave way, and wedropt alongside of each other head and stern, whenthe fluke of our spare anchor hooking his quarter,wo became so close fore and aft, that the muzzlesof our guns touched each others’ sides.“ In this position we engaged from half-past 8till half-past 10 ; during which time, from thegreat quantity and variety of combustible matterwhich they threw upon our decks, chains, and, inshort, into every part of the ship, we were on fire1jnot loss than ten or twelve times in different Dartsof the ship, and it was with great difficulty andexertion at times that we were able to get it extin¬guished. At the same time the largest of the twofrigates kept sailing round us during the wholeaction, and raking us fore and aft, by which means,they killed or wounded almost every man on thequarter and main decks. At half-past 9, eitherfrom a hand-grenade being thrown in at one of ourlower-deck ports, or other accident, a cartridge ofpowder was set on fire, and the flames runningfrom cartridge to cartridge all the way aft, blew upthe whole of the people and officers that werequartered abaft the mainmast; from which unfor¬tunate circumstance all those guns were rendereduseless for the remainder of the action, and I fearthe greatest part of the people will lose their lives.“ At ten o’clock tb'-y called for quarter from theship alongside, and said they had struck. Hearingthis I called upon the captain to say if they hadstruck, or if he asked for quarter ; but receiving noanswer, after repeating my words two or threetimes, I called for the boarders, and ordered themto board, which they did ; but the moment theywere on board her, they discovered a superiornumber lying under cover, with pikes in theirhands, ready to receive them ; on which our peopleretreated instantly into our own ship, and returnedto their guns again till half-past ten, when thefrigate coming across our stern, and pouring herbroadside into us again, without our being able tobring a gun to bear on her. I found it in vain,and in short impracticable, from the situation wewere in, to stand out any longer with the leastprospect of success; I therefore struck. Our main¬mast, at the same time, went by the board.“ The first lieutenant and myself were immedi¬ately escorted into the ship alongside, when wofound Uer to be an American ship of war, calledthe Bon Homme Richard, of 40 guns and 37.)men, commanded by Captain Paul Jones; theother frigate which engaged us to be the Alliance,of 40 guns, and 300 men ; and the third frigate,which engaged and took the Countess of Scar¬borough, after two hours action, to be the Pallas,a French frigate, of 30 guns and 275 men ; theVengeance, an armed brig, of 12 guns, and <0men ; all in congress service, under the commandof Paul Jones. They fitted out and sailed fromPort L’Orient the latter end of July, and camenorth about. They have on board 300 Englishprisoners, which they have taken in differentvessels in their way round since they left France,and have ransomed some others. On my going onboard the Bon Homme Richard, 1 found her inthe greatest distress, her quarters and counter onthe lower deck entirely drove in, and the whole other lower deck guns dismounted ; she was also onfire in two places, and six or seven feet of water inher hold, which kept increasing upon them allnight and the next day, till they were obliged toquit her, and she sunk with a great number of herwounded people on board her.—She had 300 menkilled and wounded in the action. Our loss in theSerapis was also very great.“ My officers, and people in general, behavedwell; and I should be very remiss in my attentionto their merits, were I to omit recommending themto their Lordships’ favour.“ I must at the same time beg leave to informtheir Lordships, that Captain Piercy, in the Coun¬tess of Scarborough, was not the least remiss in hisduty, he having given me every assistance in hispower; and as much as could be expected fromsuch a ship, in engaging the attention of thePallas, a frigate of 32 guns, during the wholeaction.17“ 1 am extremely sorry for the accident that hashappened, that of losing his Majesty’s ship whichI had the honour to command ; but at the sametime I flatter myself with the hope that theirLordships will he conyinced that she has not beengiven away ; but, on the contrary, that every ex¬ertion lias been used to defend her, and that twoessential pieces of service to our country havearisen from it; the one, in wholly oversetting thecruise and intentions of this flying squadron ; theother, in rescuing the whole of a valuable convoyfrom falling into the hands of the enemy, whichmust have been the- case had I acted any otherwisethan I did. We have been driving about theNorth Sea ever since the action, and endeavouringto make to any port we possibly could ; but havenot been able to get into any place till to-day wearrived in the Texel.—Herewith I enclose you themost correct list of the killed and wounded I haveas yet been able to procure, from my people beingdispersed among the different ships, and havingbeen refused permission to muster them.“ R. PEARSON.”“ P. S.—I am refused permission to wait on SiJoseph Yorke, and even to go on shore.“ The killed were:—1 boatswain, 1 master’smate, 2 midshipmen, 1 quarter-master, 20 sailors,13 marines. 40.“ Wounded :—Second Lieutenant Michael Stan¬hope, Lieutenant Whiteman, marines, 3 Surgeon’smates, six petty officers, 46 sailors, 12 marines.—Total, 60.“ Captain Piercy confirms this account, and adds,that at the beginning of the action he made sail toassist the Serapis ; but finding her and the shipsshe was engaged with so close together, and cover-ed with smoke, so that lie could not distinguish18one from the other ; he shortened sail, and engagedthe Pallas for near two hours ; when, being so un¬fortunate as to have all his braces, great part ofthe running rigging, main and mizen topsail-sheetsshot away, seven guns dismounted, four men killed,and twenty wounded, and another frigate comingup, he saw it was in vain any longer to continuethe contest, and he was obliged to strike to suchsuperior force.”The King was 'so highly pleased with the be¬haviour of the two captains, and their officers andmen, that he conferred the honour of knighthoodon Captain Pearson; and soon afterwards hisMajesty made Captain Piercy post-captain, andpromoted the other officers.The service they had performed deserved indeedevery reward ; and so sensible were the Directorsof the Royal Exchange Assurance Company oftheir obligations to the officers, for protecting therich fleets under their care, that they voted theirthanks to both; and, as a further testimony oftheir approbation, requested Captain Pearson’sacceptance of a piece of plate, value one hundredguineas ; and Captain Piercy of another, valuefifty guineas.Although Captain Pearson was not allowed to goon shore in order to make his case known to SirJoseph Yorke, this ambassador, by his representa¬tions to their High Mightinesses the States Gene¬ral, prevailed upon them to cause the woundedseamen of the Serapis, and the armed ship, to belanded ; and likewise urged them strenuously todetain, and ordered to be delivered up both theships and their crews, “which,” he said, “thepirate, Paul Jones of Scotland, who is a rebel subrl’ect, and a criminal of the state, had taken.”They refused to comply with this request; and the19only effect this remonstrance had was, their nopermitting the prizes to he sold there ; and gavecommand, that they should depart from the portsof the States General in the same state in whichthey came. Notwithstanding this order, which bythe sequel appeared to be a mere pretence, theysuffered the ships to remain ; and our ambassadorhad to use the greatest exertion to procure the re¬lease of the prisoners, every obstacle being thrown|. in his way, the captors sometimes calling them¬selves Frenchmen, at other times Americans. Atlast he obtained the release of the prisoners ; andthe squadron, though strictly blockaded, effectedtheir escape on a dark night, and made their wayto Dunkirk.The appearance of the pirate Jones in such aformidable ship in the Frith of Forth, had excitedthe greatest alarm ; and the Lords of the Admiral¬ty, aware of the unprotected state of the northernpart of the kingdom, gave orders that a squadron,consisting of the Prudent, of 64 guns, and severalfrigates, under the command of Captain Burnet,should sail immediately from Spithead, in order toprotect the metropolis of Scotland. Captain Bur¬net was so anxious to make the best of his way,that he kept his ships close together: had thesquadron been more divided in their passage to thenorth, there was a probability of interceptingJones, when beating about in the North Sea in adisabled state, before he could make the Texel.Having lost his ship, the Bon Homme Richard,Jones now shifted his flag into the Alliance. Thissquadron ceased not to act in concert; each shipbeing left to shift for itself; and in January orFebruary, 1780, Jones, eluding the vigilance ofBritish cruisers, escaped to Dunkirk, having onboard with him the celebrated Captain GustavusCunningham, who, like Jones, in the disturbances20with America, had taken an early and active partagainst his country, and rendered himself ob¬noxious to the British government, until he wastaken in an armed cutter, and carried into NewYork. The Americans perceiving the danger towhich he was then exposed, tried every means intheir power to obtain his release ; and, as a lastresort, sent a very strong remonstrance to SirGeorge Collier, commander of the Baisonable, offNew York, threatening severe retaliation : and forthis purpose Henry Hamilton, Esq. Lieut.-Gover-nor of Dehors ; Philip Degean, a justice of peace ;and William Lambe, captain of volunteers, weresingled out by the Governor of Virginia. A younggentleman also was put in irons, and confined in adungeon at Boston, all of whom should be dealtwith in the same manner as Cunningham shouldbe dealt with in England. To this remonstranceSir George Collier returned a firm and spiritedanswer, denying that any of his prisoners weretreated with inhumanity; to which lie added,“ that as it was the practice of civilized nations topunish those guilty of offences against their kingand country, after having a fair trial in a court ofjustice, Gustavus Cunningham being so considered,was therefore about to be sent off to England, toreceive the punishment due to his crimes.”—Cunningham was sent to Falmouth in July, 1799,and lodged in the castle ; but in a short time heeffected his escape by digging out under the foun¬dation of the castle, and got over to France,where he met with Jones, with whom he sailed forCorunna.From this period until the year 1783, we knowbut little of the proceedings of Jones ; but, inDecember that year, he arrived in London fromParis, with despatches from the American Con¬gress to John Adams the American resident.21After delivering his papers, he left London the fol¬lowing morning for Paris, on his way to America.Peace being concluded, his mind seemed to lan¬guish for want of active employment, and we findhim in March, 1788, at Copenhagen, when hetendered his services to the Empress of Russia,which were accepted ; but we have no account howhe was employed or where ; hut we may presumehe either had not the opportunity of signalizinghimself, or was unsuccessful—and he was underthe necessity of retiring to Paris, where he spentthe remainder of his life.Soon after this the revolution broke out, butJones not finding employment in the French navy,it being in such a deranged and ineffective state,his spirits fast failed him, and he was at last re¬duced to such abject poverty, that Capt. Blackdenwas under the necessity of raising a sum, by wayof subscription, to get him decently interred. Hodied in the year 1792.Jones, being a native of North Britain, was con¬sidered a Calvinist, and as the laws regarding theinterment of such were not then abrogated, it wasnecessary to apply to the National Assembly, whonot only revoked these laws, but passed a vote,that a deputation of its members should attendIds funeral.BLACK HOLE OF CALCUTTA.The Indian army, in the first occupation of Fort-William, did not commit any outrage; but whenthe nabob entered, accompanied by his general,Meer Jaffier, he sent for Mr Holwell, and burstinto violent reproaches at his having attempted todefend the place against the ruler of Bengal. Heexpressed also the most extreme dissatisfaction atfinding in the treasury only the small sum of 50,000rupees. Yet, after three interviews, he dismissedhim with assurances, on the word of a soldier, thatno harm should be done to him. Mr Ilolwellreturned to his companions, and found them sur¬rounded by a strong guard, who led them into averanda, or arched gallery, constructed to shelterthe soldiers from the sun and rain, but which ex¬cluded the chambers behind it from light and air.Some quarters of the fort being on fire, they wereinvolved in so thick a smoke as inspired them withthe apprehension that a design was formed to suf¬focate them ; but the guard was merely looking outfor a proper place of confinement. They pitchedupon a chamber employed as the common dungeonof the garrison, called the black hole; it consistedof a space of eighteen feet square, with only twosmall windows barred with iron, opening into theclose veranda, and scarcely admitting a breath ofair. Into this narrow receptacle, the whole of theofficers and troops, 14G in number, were compelledto enter ; and, on their venturing to remonstrate,the commander ordered every one who should hesi¬tate, to be instantly cut down. Thus were theyforcibly thrust into this fearful dungeon, into whichthe whole number could with difficulty be squeez¬ed ; the door was then fast barred from without.Their first impression, on finding themselves thusimmured, was the utter impossibility of survivingone night, and the necessity of extricating them¬selves at whatever cost. The jemautdars, or Indianguards, were walking before the window, and MrHolwell seeing one who bore on his face a morethan usual expression of humanity, adjured him toprocure for them room in which they could breath,assuring him next morning of a reward of 100023rupees. The man went away—but returned, say¬ing it was impossible. The prisoners, thinking theoft'er had been too low, tendered 2000 rupees. .1 Theman again went—and returned, saying that thenabob was asleep, and no one durst ay,alee him.The lives of 146 men were nothing in comparisonto disturbing for a moment the slumbers of atyrant. Mr Ilolwell has described in detail thehorrors of that fatal night, which are scarcely par¬alleled in the annals of human misery. Everymoment added to their distress. All attempts toobtain relief by a change of posture, from the pain¬ful pressure to which it gave rise, only aggravatedtheir sufferings. The air soon became pestilential,producing, at every respiration, a feeling of suffo¬cation ; the perspiration flowed in streams, and theywere tormented with the most burning thirst.Unfortunately, the stations at or near the windowsbeing decidedly the best, the most dreadful strug¬gles were made to reach them. Many of the pri¬soners being common and foreign soldiers, exemptby this dreadful calamity from all subordination,made an intolerable pressure, and the sufferers, asthey grew weaker, began to be squeezed or tramp¬led to death. Loud cries being raised of “ water! ”the humane jemautdar pushed through the barsseveral skins filled with that liquid ; but this pro¬duced only an increase of calamity, through theviolent efforts made in order to obtain it. Thesoldiers without found a savage sport in witnessingthese contests, and even brought lights to the win¬dows in order to view them to greater advantage.About eleven, the prisoners began to die fast; sixof Mr Holwell’s intimate friends expired at hisfeet, and were trampled upon by the survivors. Ofthose still alive, a great proportion were raving ordelirious ; some uttered incoherent prayers, othersthe most frightful blasphemies. They endeavoured.21by furious iuv6ctives, to iuauco the guards to fireinto the prison and end their miseries, but withouteffect. When day dawned, the few who had notexpired were most of them either raving or insen¬sible. In this last state was Mr Holwell himself,when, about six o’clock, the nabob awoke and in¬quired for him. On learning the events of thenight, he merely sent to ascertain if the Englishchief yet lived; and being informed that therewere appearances as if he might recover, he gaveorders to open the fatal door. At that time, of the140 who had been enclosed, there breathed onlytwenty-three. Mr Holwell, being revived by thefresh air, was immediately supported into the pre¬sence of the nabob, who, on his beginning the dis¬mal tale, ordered for him a seat and a draught ofwater, but showed no other mark of sympathy.He immediately commenced a strict interrogatoryabout the supposed treasure, discrediting extremelythe assertion of its non-existence. Being able,however, to learn nothing on this subject, he sentMr Holwell, with three other gentlemen, prisonersto Muxadavad. In this voyage they suffered se¬verely, their bodies being covered with boils, thathad broken out in consequence of their confine¬ment ; to which, however, these eruptions weresupposed to afford relief. The other survivorswere liberated ; while the dead bodies were, with¬out auy ceremony, thrown into a ditch.THE EJTD.