The GoldenBULL,OR*Crafty Princefs.AN ANCIENT'BALLADFalkirk, Printed bv T. JUn'ston.1015.THEGOLDEN BULL.PART r.Come lifren young for ers, a while, an.d you'II find,Tlia1 craffc^attend often true lovers kind,The like in paft ages was never in print,IQ'o doubt but this ftory will give you content.It is of a great King, if I mull b* plain.Who formermly liv’d in the Southern reign :He had no more children than one daughter bright,She pleafed her father, and was his delight.A neighbouring Piince came a vifit one day.It being their ufual cudoui, as they fay;Love wounded the Fritterfs fo deep to her heart,That fhe tvas much troubled when he did depart.It feem’d, to her father fee ne’er «.old her mind,Neither to the yaang Prince, the’ fee was inclin'dTo love him, fur Cupid was fesrp and fevere :What afterwards happen’d, you briefly feail hear.She being fo beautiful, ciiarming and young,Her old father find, with a deluding tongue.Love, 1 have a fancy to marry with thee,Tho’ thou art my child, thy ,oohs chai math me!Dear honoured father, the Princcfs reply’d.Sure you’re in jeft!—No, 1 am not, he cry’d 1Alas, my dear Father! what makes yon fay id?Such things are forbidden in Scripture, you know :Whilft God gives me breath, & endues me with grace,I’ll aft a child’s duty, as it is my place.He faid. I’m refolved to make thee my wife.Or tlfe thy fwtet charms will bereave me of life !The Lady burfi out in a ihower of tears,And faid, honour’d fatHst, you’re firicken in years,And can have but a fhort time to remain,JTis Satan’s temptations puts »his jti jour lrjda ! J* ( 3 )F -pare for your end as your firengt’n doth decay;And fo drive the thoughts of the Devil away ;Let no fuch vain fancies enter into your head.That vour foul may live when your body is dead.True-love for my Father I bear in my heart,And will be obedient in every part;.But rather than have you, !’I! chufe for to die;So talk no more of it, dear father, O fy IDear child, thou art like the fwset innocent dove.Yet thy charming beauty inclines me to love:Except thou wilt h;.ve me, thy life I will take,And afterwards murder myfelf for your fake-.—H-+IH-W-W -F-r- *-+ M H-t-r-i—PART fl.To the fecond part give attention, I pray.Which (hows how the Ludy contrived a way *To deceive her old father, by her crafty Ikill,Saying,Give me four things, and yotir mind I H fulfil.He faid. My dear jewel, your will you lhall have.In any thing you can dtfire or crave.They were four harefrequefts, you well may fuppofe.Tho firft three file named, were three fuitsof clotheJrTqe firft full refembling the Bars in the ikies ;The next of the clouds that before the wind flics;The third is a garment moft ceftjy and rare.Of every bird that doth fly in the a r.The other thing that I to aik will prefume,I? a Golden Bulb t i ftand in my room.1 will get them for you, my jewel, he faid,if poflibie all thefe fine things can be made.Then around the country his Nobles he fent.To get all thefc fine things which fte did invent.They got thefe three fuits, and rode back with ;W;And facing the clothes, then fhe wond’rcd indeed( 4 ) ' -Her father faid, I have brought you your clothes,And W1 get the Bull for my atnourous rofe.Then he made the bargain with one, as they fay,To get the Bull made without longer delay.Then unto the goldfmith the Lady ftie went,And privately told him her crafty intent;Be fare make it qollow, and fit to hold me,With a door and three bolts within let there be..Pray do it ingenious I eharge you once more,That no one may find out there is any door.He faid. Worthy Lady, I’ll do it fecure,Th&t no one may find out the trick to be fare.When the Bull was made flic appointed the dayWith him to be joined, as the ftory deth fay.He w«at towards the chapel- with her to be wed,And flic- had a comical trick in her head.When come near the ceapel, her father to fliun.She faid. Pray txcufe me, fi r back I inuft run,For t* fetch a thing that I can’t be without.This put her old fathar in goc-a? fear ana doubt.He faid. My dear. I am loath for to truflYou for to go back now.— She faid. but l mull;And if I return net, next time you f*# ms.I frsely w'hl give you leave for to murd«r me.Then ha geve her !«ave, and in bade back Ihe went,But little timigat he of h« crafty intent.She Unit hcrfelf fall in the Bull, and ley foil,So fail and fectire, as a tnief in a null.H/.r father he waited for two hours and more,And finding (lie cams not, in a paffion he fwore;Then about the court he enquiry made,Bin no one could tell wherp his daughter was fled.-M” impudent daughter has flam'd me, I fee;The Prince that was bcre,fent choice prefents to me,Tnerdore to requite him, I now do approve.To lead luci this Bull as a prefent of lore.( 5 )23PART III.I He fent it on board then with diligent care,[ Rjt ne’er thought his beautiful daughter wac there.1 She carried choice fwect-meats far her nouriflim^it.And at laft they arrived where th* prafaiu war fent.This Prince lik’d the prefent, and gava a eomman-d,' That this golden Bull in his chamber ihould Aand,That he might view it eich day, I declare ;But little did dream that a Princefs was there.Quite out of the Bull in the night the did *cep,And kifs’d the young Prince as h* lay afleep :She left a ich tnckdotn. embroider’d with gold.Which be or his pillow n«Kt day did behold.Th# Princ* had a mother, to wh#m he did fay,I < Who did you l«t into mv chamber, I pray ?Son, theVe has been none. T do vow and prot«ft.H# Uck’d up the neckcloth and laugh’d at the jeft.Next night, a? he lay afUep. to bt plain.This Ladv crept foftly, and kifs’d him again;Next morning a handkerchief he did behold.Embroider’d with all forts of flowers in gold.He faid to his mother, I pray tell me right.What Lady has been in my c!iamb*r this night?Dear fon, you have very ftrange whimftes I find,He took little notice, but ponder’d in mind.What Lady this is, I will be fatisfy’d,If it be for love, I will make her ny bride,I’ll fCe, for a fancy, who comes in *iy room ;But if iher’s a harlot, death lhall be her doom! _At night fiiecreep’d foftly, and kifs’d him,’us fata.And a velvet cap on bis pillow fiic laid.His thoughts then were ravifiied fo with her charm?.That he on a fcddta catch’d her in his arms.( 6 )With trembling fear, her joints could not hold.And craved his pardon for being fo bold.He anfwer’d her ftraight, I grant pardon to thee,But fi A l dellre to know who you may bs.She told him her name, & whofe daughter ihe was,And tnat |#ve had caufed her to come there.He faid, My dear love, as you ventur’d for me,'To crofs the wide ocean, my bride you fhall be.Nor doubt but this couple had pleafure that night.The Prince faid, next morning, as foon as’twa? light,Keep faft in your Bull, where feeure you will be.And when I give three knocks, love, come out to roe.So every day many hours there he fpent,In phaluies of love, to their joy and content.He faid, I delight to behold thy fweet face,And we will be marry’d, love, in a fliort fpace.So then he a ring from his finger did take.And fa'd. My dear'jevrel, keep this for my fake:I-muft make a progrefs, dear love do not mourn,If iny life be prefei v’d. 1 will quickly return.# =*= sw-s vw.=*PART IV.So then to his mother he went, and did fay;Let no one go up to my chamber, I pray :If I find that any goes into my room,Then death without mercy dial] fare be their doom.The mother faid. Son, 1 flial! k ep all fecure*That none may go into your room to be lure.He went to his hunting-match with a cheerful mind.But now you will foon a tragedy find.Thrie ladies came there, and defired to viewHer foil's Golden-Bull, and did mhke much ado:The old Lady thinking no harm there might be,Admitted them up this fine bull for to fee.As foon a' they came up. and faw thir fine fight.They faid. In this Bull, he may take delight;The goldfmith that made it, fure had crafty ficill.Come let us go down, Cnee our minds are fulfill’d.To firike it, faid one, full refolved I be ;The reft had a mind, fo they ftruck it all three.Thinking it was the Prince that gave 3 knocks there,The beautiful Lady came forth, 1 declare!Said they, We have waited to fee the btft fight,For in this bafe harlot the Prince takes delight;Therefore (he (hail die like a hadot fo vain.So they all riifputed how (he might be (lain.The firft faid, I think it ft to hang her with fpeed.The fecond faid, No! we will drown her indeed.The laft of the three then this snfvver return’d.If I had my mind, (he with fpied (lioiild be bunt’d !The other two faid, No ! that (hall not be done.So out at the window, where a river did tun,They tofi'ed her headlong!—She fwam to a tree.Where (he lived three da) s. and no perfon could fee.A fine fuit of clothes this Lady had on !A maid went for water, and foon back did run.Hernraftcr faid,what make your countenance cl,ange?Sir, there is a fign that is wondercus ftrange !Tire gentleman ran with all fpetd tiiat might Le,Where he faw the Lady fit upon the tree!H* went with a beat, and got her in his aims.And was almoft raviih’d witn her beauteous charms.The gentleman to her ihcfe words did exprefs.Lady, how came you to be in tiii; diftreft ?Sue told him her forrows from firft to the laft.Saying, Now I know all my forrows are paft.‘Fair Lady, Toor farrows have not. been few;The Prince row is fick, I fiippefe ’tis for you.What! Is he come home,Sir? That well plcafet!) K1C.In s few days his honoured bride 1 (hall be.( 8 )Take this diamond-ring, and go to him I pray,The Prince wilt well know it, I dare to fay.Then into his chamber with fpeed he did go,Saying, What is the caufe of your languifhing fo ?’Tis love is the'caufe of my angnifli and pain,A Lady I lov’d, but do fear the is flam ;Therefore no phyfician tny life now can fave,I’ll follow my jewel with tears to the grave.Then he held vhe diamond-ring ftraight in hi* view,Which made him to cry. Sir, Who gave that to you ?Dear Prince, the fair Ladv is at my houfe now.Tie flarred up, laving, i’m qpite well, 1 vow 1Sc then to bis mother with fpeed he did go, JSaving, Some perfo < has been m ray chamber i know;Then ftneightway <hc gave him tc-'ount whothev w*re.The Prince fent for them all, who caine 1 deciaie,And unto the Prince they lor mercy die c^ave,He laid, What you chus'd, you fiir-iy ftiali nave;One haog d, one burn’d, '-nd one drevn, d fl^Il be;So this was the forrowful end of the ilwee.ThePijnce&his Princefs with joyDon were crown’d;The mufle aid play, and the trumpets did found!In triumph they were wedded, 'tnas a joyful day.Then, then was the time to wafh lorrow away!The next news (he heard., her old Father was deo ’;And then of that country a Queen flic wa* made:Then they had both nations to rule and dele.nd,And fo let my tragical comedy end.FINIS.