Merry TalesOF THEVise MEN of GOTHAM./To which is added,A COLLECTION of JESTS... ^f Of Merry Books ibis is the chief f| It is a purging Pill,| To carry off all heavy GriefAnd make you laugh your fll. j?1^1STIRLING:IINT£D AND SOLD BV' C, RANDAlj^r• r’ r "T H EME R R Y TALESr O F T H EWISE MEN Ob’ GOTHAM.T A L E I.r|^HERE were two men of Gotham and orof them was £°ing to Nottingham markto buy fheep and both met together on Nottinham bridge. Wei! met, faid one to the othewhither are you going ? faid he that came froNottingham. Marry, faid he that was going tither, L am going to the market to buy IheeBuy flieep ! laid the other, which way will yc '•bring them home ? Marry, faid the other. I wbring them over this bridge. By Robin Hocf?id he that came from Nottingham, but th(halt not Bv my maid Margery, faid the othibut I will *You (hall not, faid the one ; i w:faid the other. Then they beat their (laves 01again ft the other, and then againft thegrounas if a hundred fheep had been betwixt theHold there, laid the one. Beware of my Iheleaping over the bridge, faid the other I c:nor, faid the one. They (hall all come this w;laid the other. But they lltall not, faid the orThen faid the other, if thou make much adc'will put my finger in thy mouth A turd th "wilt, faid the other And as they were in c«Mention, another wife man that belonged to Ctham. came from the market with a lark of rnon his horfe; atrd feeing his neighbours at it’;gl^otU-dheep and none betwixt them laid he, t j■fools, will ye never learn wit! Then help i 'THE MERRY TALES, &c. $ohtinued he, to lay this fack upon my (boulder.They did fo, and he went to the fide of the bridgend fhook out the meal into the river faying,dow much meal is there in my fack, neighbours?vlarry, Lid one, none. Indeed, replied this wifenan, even fo much wit is there in your two headslo flrive for that you have not.—Now, which washe wifeft of thefe three ? I leave you to judge.T A L E II.THERE was a man of Gotham that rode tohe market with two bufnels of wheat, and be-aufe his horfe Ihould not be damaged by car-ying too great a burden, he was determined tojarry the corn hirnfelf upon his own neck, andHill kept riding upon his horfe till he arrived athe end of his journey. Now I will leave you tondge what was the wifeft, his horfe or himfelf.TALE III.ON a time the men of Gotham fain wouldf ave pinn’d in the cuckow, that ihe might fingE' the year ; and in the midft of the town theyd a hedge made round in cornpafs, and got ackow and put her into it, and laid, Sing here,pad you lhail lack neither meat nor drink all theear. The cuckow, when Ihe perceived berfeifncompaifed within the hedge, flew away. Avengeance on her, faid thefe wife men, we didot make our hedge high enough.T A L ’ E IV.THERE was a man of Gotham who went tofottingham market to fell cheefe ; and goingown the hill to Nottingham bridge one of hisneefss fell out of his wallet, and ran down theill. Whorefon, faid'the fellow, what can you4 THE MERRY TALES OFrun to the market alone ? I’ll now fend one aftel ianother. Then laying his waliet down, taking ;■out the cheefes he tumbled them down the hillone after another. Score ran into one bufhand feme into another. However, he chargee ,them to meet him in the market-place. T heman went to the market to meet with the cheefes.and flay’d till the market was almofl over ; therwent and enquired at his neighbours, if theyfaw his cheefes come to the market ? Why,who fhould bring them ? faid one. Marry, tthemfelves, faid the fellow, they knew the rvayvery well. A vengeance on them, they ran fcfall, I was afraid they would run beyond the «market ; 1 am perfuaded they are by this time,almoft as far as York. So he immediately rodeto York, but was very much difappointed.—And to add to it, he never found nor heard olone of his cheefes,T A L E V.A Man of Gotham bought at Nottingham*market a trev.t or barn iron ; and going homewith it, his fhouklers grew weary with the car¬riage. He fet it down, and feeing it had 3 feet,faid. Whorefon. thou haft three feet and f bulltwo, thou (halt bear me home, if thou wilt ; fa 1,fet himfelf down upon it. and faid to it bear meas long as I have done thee for if thou doll not,)thou (halt (land flill lor me. fhe man of Gothamfeeing that his. trevet would not move, (land flill ,faid he. in the Mayor’s name, and loilow me ifthou wilt, and l can fhow you the right way. r"When he went home, his wife allied him where i.the trevet was ? He faiu, it had three legs ami 1THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM. 5ne had but two, and he had taught him the readyway to his houfe ; therefore he might come him-ielf, if he would. Where did you leave the tre-i'et, faid the woman ? At Gotham bridge, faidTie. So fhe inrmediately ran and fetched the tre-iret herfelf, or other wife fhe mud certainly have;|oft it, on account of her hufband’s want of wit.r A L E VI.A Certain fmith of Gotham had a largeivafp’s ncft in the draw at the end of his forge ;■and there coming one of his neighbours to haveiiis harfe fhod, and the wafps being exceedingiDufy, the man was dung by one of them. Thepan being grievoufly affronted, faid, Are youjworthy to keep a forge or not, to have mendung with thefe wafps ? O ! neighbour, faid theimith, be content, and I fhall put them fromitheir neft prefcntly. Immediately he took a coul-ter and heated it red hot, and thrud it into thetraw at the end of his forge, and fet it on fire,nd burnt it up. Then faid the fmith, I toldhee, I’d fire them out of their neft.T A I. E VH.ON Good Friday the men of Gotham con-l ulted together what to do with their white her-ings, fprats, and fait fifh, and agreed, that ailuch fifh fhould be calt into the pond or pool, inhe midft of the town, that the number of themnight increafe againft the next year. Thereforejvery one that had any fifh left, did call themrnmediately into the pond. Then faid one Ilave gotten left fo many red herrings. Wellaid another, and I have left fo many whitings.Another immediately cried out, I have as yet6 THE MERRY TALES OFgotten fo many fprats left. And, faid the laft,1 have gotten fo many fait fifbes, let them gotogether in the great pond without any diftinc-tion, and we may be fure to tare like lords the Inext year. At the beginning of the next Lentthey immediately went about drawing the pond,imagining tiny thould have the fifh ; bnt weremuch furprifed to find nothing.but a great eel jAh ! faid they, a mifchief on this eel, for hd'hath eaten up our fifh ; what n ull we do whlihim ? faid one to the other. Kill him, laid!one; chop him in pieces, faid another. Nay,not fo. faid the other, but let us drown him.Be it accordingly fo, replied they all. So theylimmediately went to another pond and ca!t the,eel into the water. Lie there, faid thefe wifemen, and fliift for thyfelf, fince you may no:expect any help from us. So they left the eeto be drownedTALE VIII.ON a time the men of Gotham had forgotten to pay their rents to their landlord. So onefaid to the other. To-morrow mud be pay-dayby whom can we lepd our money to our lancijlord ? So one faid to them, I have this day tak.,en a hare, and he may carry it, for he is veryquick footed ; be it fo replied the relt; he fhal.have a letter, and a large purfe to put our money fin, and we can diredt her the ready w ay. Whaithe letter was written, and the money put int#a purfe, they immediately tied them about thrhare’s neck, faying. You muft firfl: go to Loughborough, and then to Leicefler, and at Newarlis our landlord ; then commend us unto him'!THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM. 7*|i)d there is his due The hare, as Toon as The gottut of their hands, ran a quite contrary way.i ome faid, thou mull fu ft go to Loughborough jiihers laid, let the hare alone, for Ihe can tell aearer way than the belt of us; let her go.T ALE IX.A Man of Gotham that went mowing in theTeadow found a large grafshopner. He imme-1 lately threw down his icythe, and ran home tois neighbours, and laid, that the devil was there1 the held, and was hopping amungft the graft,"hen was every man ready, with their clubs andlaves, halberts and other weapons, to kill theIrafthopper. When they came alrnoft to thellace where the grafthopper was, laid one to|pe other, let every man croft himfelf from thef evil, for we will not meddle with him, fo theypturned again, and faid, we were bleft this daypat we went no farther. O )e cowards-, faide that left his feythe in the meadow, help me0 feten my feythe. No, anfwered they, it iseod to deep in awhole Ikin. It is much betteror thee to lofe thy Icy the, than to marr us all,,.T ALE X.ON a certain time there were twelve men offotham that went to filh ; and fome waded in.he water, and fome flood on dry land. And inoing home, one faid to the other, we have ven-ured wonderfully in wading, I pray God thatione ol us did come from home to be drowned,^ay. many, laid one to the other, let us fee that,or thete did twelve of us come out. Then theyold themfelves, and every one told eleven. Saidhe one to the other, there is one of us drown.--8 THE MERRY TALES OFed. They went back to the brook where theylLad been fiftiing, and fought up and down fonjhim that was drowned, making great lamenta¬tion. A courtier coining by, aiked 'what it wasthey fought for, and why they were forrowful ? !Oh! faid they. this day uTe went to fifli in the!brook ; twelve of us came out together, and oneis drowned. Said the courtier, tell how manythere be of you. One of them faid eleven ; buthe did not tell himfelf. Well. faid the courtier,what will you give me, and l will find the twelfthman ? Sir, faid they, all the money we have got.Give me the money, faid he ; he then beganwith the firft, and gave him a ilroke over theihoulders with his whip, which made him groan ;faying, here is one, and fo he ferved them all,and they groaneebat the matter. When he cameto the laft, he paid him well, faying, here is thetwelfth man ; God’s blefling on thy heart, faidthey, for finding our brother.TALE XI.A Man of Gotham riding along the high*w<iy, faw a cbeefe, lb drew his fword and prick-ed it with the point, in order to pick it up. A-:nother man came by and alighted, and pickedit up, and rode away with it. The man ofGotham rides back to Nottingham to buy along fword to pick up the cheefe ; and return*,ing to the place where the cheefe did ly, hepulled out his fword, pricking the ground, and.faid. If I had had but this fword, I fliould havehad the cheefe myfeif, but now another hastgot it.THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM. 9TALE XII.A Man in Gotham that did not love his wife,.nd Ibe bavins fair hair, her hulband faid di-sivers times he would cut it off, but durit not dojit when (he was awake, fo he r'efclved to do itwhen flie was afleep ; therefore one night he[took up a pair of {beers and put them under hispillow^; which his wife perceiving, faid to oneof her maids, go to bed to my hufband, for heintends to cut off my hair to-night, let him cutoff’ thy hair, and l will give thee as good a kirtle:,as ever thou didft fee. ITse maid did fo, andfeigning herfeif afleep, which the man perceiv¬ing, cut oft' the maid’s hair, and wrapped itipbout the filters, and laid them under the pil¬low, and went to deep : the maid arofe, andrithc wife took the hair and {beers, and went todhe hall, and there burnt the hair. The mannhad a fine horfe that he loved much, and the^oodwife went into the liable, cut off' the horfe’stail, wrapped the fheers up in it, and then laid"hem under the pillow again. Pier hufband fee¬ing her combing her head in the morning, marrveiled very much thereat. ['he girl feeing hernaffer in a deep ftudy, faid, What the devilails the horfe in the liable ? lie bleeds prodigi-mfly. 1'he man ran into the flable, and found:he horfe’s tail was cut off; then going to hisaed, he found the fheers wrapped up in hisicrfe’s tail, lie then w'ent to his wife, faying,i crave thy mercy for 1 intended to cut off thytair, but have cut off my own horfe's tail. Yea.,aid {he, feli-do, felf-have. Many men thinkio THE MERRY TALES OFto do a bad turn, but. ir turneth oft-times tothemfeives.T A L E Xllf.A Man of Gotham laid his v ifd a wager, thatf!ie could not m. ke him a cuckold. No ! laid{he, but I can. Do not (pare me, faid he, butdo what you can. On a time fne had hid allthe ip.igg'oh and faufets, and going into the but¬tery, let a barrel a broach, and cry’d to herfpoiife, Fray bring me a Ipiggot and faufet, orelfe the ale will all rim out He fought up anddown but could not find one. Come here then,1laid. ihe, and put thy finger in the tap-hole.Then ihe called a taylor with whom Die hadmade a bargain. Soon after {lie came to herImlband, and brought a ipiggot and faufet,faying, Pull thy finger cut ot the tap-hole,good cuckold. Beihrew jour heart for yourtrouble, faid he, make no fuch bargain with .me again.TALE XiV.A Man of Gotham took a young buzzard,and invited four or five gentlemens (ervants tothe eating of it : but the uid wife killed an oldgooffc, and the at d two ot her gollips ate upthe buzzard, and the old gpole w as laid to the .fire lor the gentlemens for cants. So when theycame the goofe was let before them. What is [this ? faid one of them. I he gpd'dman fiiid. a :curious buzzard. A buzzard ! faid they, tv-hykis an old goole, and thou, art a knave to mock >v.s, and lo in great anger departed home. Thefellow was very forty that he had affrontedthem, and took a bag and put the buzzard’s fTHE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM., ut:athers in it ; but bis wife defired him beforee went, to fetch a block of wood, and in theinterim Hie pulled out the buzzard’s feathers,nd put in the goofe’s. Then the man takinghe bai';, went to the gentleman’s fervants, andaid. Pray be not angry with me, you fhall feehad a buzzard, for here be the feathers. Then.ie opened the bag, and took out the goofe’s fea-hers. Upon w hich one of them took a cudgel,ukI gave him a dozen of ftripes, faying, Why,feu knave, could you not be content to mockF;> at home r but are you come here to mock3 aifo.T A L E XV.A Man’s wife of Gotham was brought to-bedif a male child, and the father invited the gof-Ifips, which were children of eight cr ten years -if age. The elded child’s name was Gilbert,the fecond’s name was Humphrey, and the god¬mother’s name was Chridibeh Their relationsadmonifhed them divers times, that they mudall fay after the Parfon. And when they wereall come to the church, the Pried faid, be,youall agreed of the name ? Gilbert, Humphrey,and Chridibel, faid they all The Pried thenTaid, Wherefore came you hither ? They im¬mediately faid the fame. The Pried being a-jmazed, could not tell what to fay, but whiffled!and faid, Whey, and fo did they. The Priefcbeing angry, faid, Go home fools, go home.Then Gilbert, Humphrey and Chridibel didthe fame The Pried then provided godfathersand godmothers himfelf.Here a man may fee, that children can do' - Vi2 ?HE MERRY TALES OFnothing without good indruclions, and tha: ithev are not wife who difregard them.T A L L ‘ XVI.A Young man of Gotham went a wooing tca fair maid : his mother warned him beforehandfaying, whenever you look at her, calf a Iheep’seye at her, and fay. How doll thou, my fweet ■■Pigfnie ? The fellow went to a butcher's, antbought feven or eight flreep’s eyes. And when rthis iufty wooer was at dinner, he would look!upon this fair wench, and cafl in her face afheep’s eye, faying How dolt thou do my fweetPigfnie ? How I do, iaid the wench, Swine’s1face, what do you mean by carting a fheep’s eye:at me f Oh ! fweet Pigfnie, have at thee with an¬other. Bar I defy thee. Swine’s face, faid thewench. What *ny fweet old Pigfnie, be content,for if you live till next year-, you will be a foulfow. Walk knave, walk, faid fire, for if youlive till next year yd will be a fool.T A L E XVII.Theri: was a man of Gotham, who wouldbe married, and when the day of marriage wascome they went to church. The Pried, faid, Dayou fay after me. The man faid, Do you lay af-Lr me. The Prieft faid-; Say not after me lucliwords, but fay what I fhall tell you ; thou doftlplay the fool to mock the holy Scripture con-:gerning matrimony. Then the fellow laid, thoudort play the fool to mock the holy Scriptureconcerning matrimony. The Prieft could not telBwhat to fay. but anfwered. What fhail I do withjhis fool ? And the man faid. What fhall I dowith this fool ? So the Pried took his leave andTHE WISE MEN OF COTHaM. 13i'ould not marry them. Bat he was inftructedly others how to do, and was afterwards mur¬ed. And thus the breed of the Gothamitesas been perpetuated, even unto this day.T A L E XVIII.There was a Scotfman who dwelt at Go-:ham. and he tc<ok a houfe a little dillance fromi .ondon, and turned it into an inn ; and for his! gn he would have a boar’s head. Accordinglye went to a carver, and faid, canyon make me. bare-head? Yes, faid the carver. Then faid he,make me a bare-head, and thou’fe have acd. forShy hire. I will do it, fatd the carver. So on St.Andrew’s day, before Cbriftmas, the which isSailed Yule in Scotland, the Scot came to Lon¬don for his boar's head to fet up at his door. Ifiy to thee, fpeak, faid the Scotfman, had: thoumade me a bare-head ? Yes, faid the carver. Heyent and brought a man’s head of wood thatlas bare and faid. Sir, here is your bare-head,iy, faid the Scot the meikle de’il! is this aare~he?.d! Yes, faid the carver. I fay, faid thecotfihan, [ will have a bare-head, like a headhat follows the fow that has grvecs. Sir, faid thearver. I don't know a fow and gryccs What,horefon, know you not a fow that will greetnd groan, and cry, a weak, a Weak. What, faidre carver, do you mean a pig ? Yes, faid thecotfman, let me have Iter head made on tint-14 tHE MERRY TALES OF, be.T A I, E XIX.ON Adi Wednefday, the minifter of Gothamwould have a coMeflion from his parifaiouers,and faid unto them, My friends, the time iscome that you mu ft ufe prayer fading and .alms, but come ye to thrift. 1 will tell ye moreof ray mind But as for prayer, f don't thinkthat two men in the parifh can fay their Pater-nofter As for fading, ye fad dill, for ve havenot a good meal's meat in the year. As foralms-deeds, what fhould they give that havenothing ? In Lent, you mud refrain from drunk-enefs, and abdain from drink No. not fo,laid one fellow, for it is an old proverb, that-fifh fhould fwim Ves, faid the Pried, it mudfwim in the water. I crave you mercy, quoththe fellow, I thought it fhould have fwam infine ale, for I have been-told fo Soon afterthe men of Gotham came to fhrifr, and beingfeven, the pried knew not what penance to give*He faid, if I enjoin you to pray, you cannotfay your Pater-noder. And it is but folly to'make you fad. becaufe you never eat a meal'smeat. Labour hard and get a dinner on Sumdav and 1 will partake of it, another man heenjoined to fare well on Monday, and anotheron Tuefday, and one after another, that one orother fhould fare well once in the week, thathe might have part of their meat. And as foralms-deeds, the pried faid, ye be but beggafsall except one or two. therefore bedow youralms on yourfelves.Ip:^ c 15 )A COLLECTION OF JESTS.AN Irifhmnn being a Iked, whether he or hisbrother were hided f I am oldefl faidre, but if my brother live three years longer,iwe fliall be both of one age.An Iriih fervant being ft ruck by his mafter,cried out, Devil take me, if I am certain whe¬ther be has killed me or not; but it 1 am dead,it will afford me great fansfaction to hear thei«old rogue was hanged for killing me.A deaf fellow coining to London to fell a tur-Ikey, at Hyde Park Corner, had cccafion to un-trufs a point ; a gentleman parting by, intendedto put a joke upon him ; countryman, laid he,there’s a turd under you ; the man thinking healked the price of his* turkey, faid, four {hillings,mafter. 1 fay there's a turd under you, faid theother. It is as good as ever you eat in your life,faid the fellow, either baked or roafted. Yourafcal, faid he, I could.find in my heart to kickyou foundly. Come chufe, fays the lellow, forI if you wont another will.One being at his wife’s funeral, and the bear¬ers going pretty quick along,'he cried out tothem, Don’t go fo fait, what need we make atoil of a pica Jure.Two IriPnrneti, walking together in the fields,were at length, hemmed in by a great ditch, whichwhen they perceived, quoth one of them, wemuft go back again, for this ditch is too big forus to jump over ! Nay. quoth the other, f pro-teft Pi! jump oyeiy though I light in the middle.i6 A COLLECTION OF JESTS.A number of French gentlemen, dining at atavern in Germany, the maid, as fhe took outthe difnes, let a roufmg fart ; and her miftrefsfcolding her feverely for doing fuch a thing inhearing of the guelts. Piliaw. madam, fays file.you don’t confider that they are all French peo¬ple, and don’t undtrftand German.In Admiral Hawke’s laft engagement withthe French, a faiior on board one of the Ihipshad a leg Ihot off, whereupon one of his mefs-mates took him down to the furgeon, and tookhis leg off the deck and put it under his arm ;he was no fooner brought down, but anotherof his mefs-mates began flraking his head, andtelling him he was very ferry he had loft a leg.That is a damn’d lie. you fon of a b—h, repliedhe, for I have got it under my arm.A gentleman one day gave his 1'ervant a kkk]on the breech, upon which the fellow let a rouf-ing fat4t, his mafter was horribly offended, butthe fervant faid, Why, Sir, would you knock atthe door, and have nobody anfwer you.An Irifhman at Chefter, upon enquiring at hislandlord how he could get to London, and beingtold he might go in the waggon, he replied.No, honey, that won’t do, I am always fea-fickwhen I ride in a waggon.A Schcolmafler afking one of his boys, in aiharp winter morning, what was Latin for cold :the boy hefitated. a little—What firrah, laid he,can’t you tell ? Yes, yes, cried the boy, I haveit at my finger-ends.FINIS.