FUN UPON FUN;LEPER,THE TAILOR.IN TWO PARTS:WITH ASELECTION OF ENTERTAINING ANECDOTES.THE MERRY TRICKSOFLEPER, THE TAILOR.Leper’s father lived in a village about six. miles from Glasgow, and died when he wasbut very young; he-left a widow and threechildren, two daughters and a son ; Leperbeing the youngest, was greatly idolized byhis mother, who was a good soft-naturedwoman, very industrious, and followed thebleaching of cloth.As Leper grew up he grew a very mis¬chievous boy, playing many tricks in theneighbourhood, such as tying cats to dogstails, breaking hens’ legs, stopping people'slums, or chimney-tops ; so that his poor ^mother was sadly vexed with complaintsagainst him.To get him kept from mischief, she pre¬vailed with a tailor to take him as an ap- |prentice; he settled and was very peaceable \for some time, until he got as much of histrade on his finger ends as he might passfor a journeyman, and then he was indif¬ferent whether he stayed with his master ornot; his mistress gave him but very little ,meat when he wrought at home, so he liked |o H3best to be in other houses, where he gotmeat and diversion.Leper being resolved on revenge again; this mistress for her thin kail, no kitchen,and little bread; for though flesh was boiledin the pot, none was for poor Leper andhis master, but a little bit on Sundays,and all the bones were kept and put in the.pot, to make the broth through the week.Leper perceived, always when she took offthe pot, she turned her back and took out; the flesh, and set it on a shelf in her ownbed-room ; one night, after work, he steals; out a pan, cuts a piece of flesh out of a deadhorse, and then goes to a lime kiln, andboils it; next dav, his master being fromhome, his landlady and he being in the.house, after she had set the pot as usual,and taken out her bit of good beef, he goesout for some time and then comes in,, say¬ing, ‘ the minister’s lass is wishing to seeyou, to go directly and speak to her mis¬tress.’ Off she goes m all haste; Leper runsand takes away her bit of good meat,: andlays down his horse flesh ; and kn wing shewould return in a passion, and sit downwith a soss in her cushioned chair, as sheused, he takes a large pin and staps iti straight through the cushion, with its headon the chair, and the point to her backside.So in she comes in a rage, and down she4sits 'with all her weight on the pin point;and she roars out murder! murder! for shewas sticket in the a—e ; the neighbourscame running in. and Leper went out withhis bit ox good beef, leaving the wives todoctor his fandlady’s doup, as they pleased;he still denied the doing of it, and his masterbelieved it might happen accidentally, butthe houdie was very oft to be had before itwas got hale again ; and his landlady byeating of the horse beef took such a loath¬ing at flesh, that Leper and his master gotall the beef ever after, and his landladyturned one of the kindest mistresses a pren¬tice could wish for.There was a neighbour wife on whomLeper used to play tricks sometimes, forwhich she came and complained to hismaster and had him severely beaten severaltimes. Leper resolved to be revenged onher, so one night he came to the backsideof the house (no one being in but herself),and took up a big stone and runs along therough wall with all his strength, which roar- ■ed like thunder in the inside of the house,and frighted the wife so that she thought thehouse was tumbling down about her ears,and she ran out and sat down at a distance,looking every minute when the house wouldfall down, till her husband came home andpersuaded her to go in, to whom she told :othe above story; ‘ hout tout, daft tapie,’ saidhe, ‘ the house will stand these hundredyears.’ Leper knowing they were both in,comes and plays the same trick over again,which also frightened the good man so muchthat he cried out, ‘ run, Maggy, run, for myheart plays pitty patty.’ And they wouldnot lodge in the house any more, till themasons convinced them of its sufficiency.There was another neighbour who had asnarling cur dog, which bit Leper’s leg.Leper resolved to be revenged on the dog,and so one night he catches the dog, andcarries him to the kiik, where the rope ofthe bell hung on the outside, so with hisgarter he tied the dog’s fore foot to the rope,and left him hanging; the dog struggling toget free set the bell a ringing, which alarmedthe whole village, every one cried out ‘won¬derful fire! wonderful fire! the devil is ring¬ing the bell.’ When they saw the blackcolley hanging at the rope, I trow it set theminister and all the people to their prayers:but Leper fearing he would be detected byhis garter, came to the minister’s side, andasked the reverend gentleman what was thematter; ‘indeed, my bairn,’ said he, ‘ ’tis thedeil ringing the kirk bell;’ says Leper ‘ 111go and see him, for I never saw the devil;’the minister cried stop the mad laddie, butLeper ran and losed the dog, crying ! it'sGsuch a man’s dog, which had the rope in itsteeth they all cried out, ‘the deil’s i’ thecur, the deil’s i’ the dog,’ then took up stonesand felled poor colley, and the devil got theblame of making the dog ring the bell.This spread Leper’s fame, for being one ofthe wisest and most courageous tailors thatwas in all the kingdom; and many shakingtheir heads, said, ‘ it was a pity he was atailor, but a captain or a general of an army,as the devil could not fear him.’After this, a farmer in the neighbourhoodhearing the fame of Leper, how he hadfrighted the deil frae being a bellman, sentfor him to an alehouse, and drank with himvery heartily, and told him he was sadlyborne down by a spirit of jealousy againsthis wife; and a suspicion of her being too freewith a servant lad he had before; and if hewould keep it a secret and learn him to findit out, he would give his mother a load ofmeal, to which Leper agreed; so he gave thepoor supposed cuckold instructions how tobehave. So home he goes and feigns himselfvery sick, and every day worse and worse,taking death to him; blesses his three smallchildren, and charges his wife not to marryuntil his children could do something forthemselves; this hypocritical woman takes acrying, ‘ Aha! marry,’ she would never mar¬ry! ‘ no, no, there should never a man lie by7my side, or kiss my lips after thee, my aindear lamb Johnny.’ Then he acts the deadman as well as he possibly could, the neigh¬bours were called in, and he!s fairly o’er-seen, as the old saying-is, be.t’or,e.good neigli-bours. The sorrowful widow made sadlament, wrung her lupidaand toreber hair.The reverend women about began fo dressthe corpse, asked her for a shirt. ‘ Ay, ay,'said she, ‘ he has rtwa new linemsarks, and,there is an auld ane. in ;the-bottom-o' thekist, that ngebod^y can wear; ony. thing'sgood enough for the grave‘ well/ said;they, ‘ we must have some linen for a wind¬ing sheet / ‘aweel,’ quo’ she, ‘Iha’e twacut jo’ lintm i’ the kj^t'. neuk, but there’s apair o’' agld linen sheqts, hol’d i’ the middle,may do well enough} I had need to be care-fu’, I’m a poor .widow the da}-, \vi’ three sma’nt dloanrixl nintnoo tj >noI on blWell, thc cqrpse is ^dressed and laid onthe tap of the^ big chestj 'wlqle. npighliourssat by her condoling ;her apdhow the funeral raisins werejq proyided,:Said one,, ‘the coffin ninstneed bepqqp nhout.first,’ ‘Ay, ay, he hps.»bm.<? new (degls inhliebarn ; he .bought them , to make a bed o' -rbut we’ll no break themp fhere’s the anjd-barn door, and the caff kist will, ffo wellenough, ony thing’s gude,.;enough-^o gangto the grave wi’; but 0/ quo’ she, ‘send for8Sandy, my honest auld servant, and he’llsee every thing right done ; I’ll tell himwhere he’ll get siller to do anything wi’;he’s the lad that will not see me wrang’d.’Then Sandy comes wrying his face, andrubbing his eyes. ‘ 0, Sandy, there’s a sadalteration here,’ and ba-a, she cries like abitten calf, ‘ 0 sirs, will ye gang a’ butt thehouse till I tell ye what to do.’ Butt theywent, and there she fell a kissing of Sandy,and said, ‘now, my dear, the auld chatteringghaist is awa and we’ll get our will o’ ither;be as haining of everything as ye can, forthou kens it’s a’ thy ain ;’ but the corpse’sister and some other people coming in, benthey came to see the corpse, lifts up thecloth off his face, and seeing him all in apour of sweat, said, ‘heigh, he’s a bonnycorp, and a lively like colour,’ When hecould no longer contain himself to carry onthe joke, up he got among them. A dealof people ran for it, and his wife cried out“ 0, my dear, do you ken me?’ ‘ Ay, youbase jade and whore, better than ever I did.’Jumps on the floor, gets his staff and runsafter Sandy, and catches him in the fields,a little from the house ; and ate and drankwith his sister and neighbours who came tosee his corpse. Poor Sandy went home witha skin full of terror, and a sorting of sorebones, took a sore fever, and died a fewdays after ; so he got quit of Ins cockolder,and Leper’s mother got her load of meal.Leper’s mother was a careful industriouswife, hut as the bye-word is, ‘ a workingmother makes a dally daughter,’ and so ithappened here, for she had two glaikit slutsof daughters that would do nothing but liein their bed in the morning, till, as the say¬ing is, ‘ the sun was like to bum a hole intheir backsides.’ The old woman, who wasbleaching some cloth, was very early atwork in the mornings, and Leper’s patiencebeing worn out with the laziness of his twosisters, he resolved to play a trick on them,for their reformation, so he goes and gets amortcloth, and spread it on the bed abovethem, and sends the dead bell through thetown, inviting the people next day, at fouro’clock afternoon, to the burial of his twosisters, for they had died suddenly. Thisbrought all the neighbouring wives in, whoone after another lifted up the mortcloth,and said, with a sigh, ‘ they’ve gone to theirrest; a sudden call indeed!’ Their aunthearing of this sudden news, came runningin all haste, and coming where the jades’mither was at work, and was ignorant of thestory, she cries out, ‘ Fye upon ye, woman,fye upon ye!' ‘ What’s the matter, sister,’says she, ‘what’s the matter?’ ‘I think youmight let your wark stand for a’e day, when10your daughters are baith lying corpse.’ ‘Mybairns corpse! I am certain they went tobed hale and fair last night.’ ‘ But, I tellyou,’ said the other, 4the dead bell has beenthro’ warning the folks to the burial;’ thenthe mother cries out, ‘ 0 the villain! 0 thevillain, that he did not send me word.’ Sothey both ran, arid the mother as soon asshe entered the house, flies to the bed, cry¬ing, ‘0, my bairn'-, my dear bairns ;’ onwhich the sluts rose; up in a consternation,to the great surprise of the beholders, andthe great mortification of the girls, whothought shame , to set'their noses out ofdoors, and to the great diversion of thewhole towri,Leper and his master went to a gentle¬man’s house to work, where there was asaucy house-keeperr who had more ignor¬ance arid pride than good sense and man¬ners; shedomineeredover her folio wservantsin a tyrannical manner. Leper resolved to |mortify her pride; so he finds rin ant’s nest, \and takes their white estgs,1 grinds them toa powder, and puts them into the dish hersupper sowens was to be put in. After shehad taken her supper, as she was coveringthe table, the imnock powder began to ope¬rate, arid she let a great f—. ‘ Well done,Margaret, said the Laird, your a—■ wouldtake a cautioner.’ Before’she got out of the ,11chamber cloor she let fly another crack ;then she goes to order her fellow servant togive the Laird his supper, but before shecould give the neeessary directions, she gavefire again, which set them all a laughing;she runs into a room herself, and there sheplayed away her one gun battery so fastthat you would have thought she had beenbeseiging the Havannah. The Laird andLady came to hear the fun, they were liketo split their sides at proud Maggy. Sonext morning she left her place, to the greatsatisfaction of all her fellow servants.PART 11.Leper’s landlady became very harsh to hismaster, and very often abused him exceed-inglv sore with her tongue and hands, andalways called upon him for more money,and to have all the money in her keeping,which Leper was sorry for. It so happenedon a day that the tailor had got a heartydrubbing, both with tongue and tongs, thathe pouched his thimble and was going tomake a queen of her. MThen she saw that,she cried out, £0! will you leaveapoortender dying woman.’ But Leper knowingthe cause of her ill nature better than his12master did, advised him to take her on a fineday, like a mile out of town and give her awalk, and he would stay at home and studya remedy for her disorder. Away they bothgo ; but as she was also complaining forwant of health, and that she was very weak,she cried out frequently, ‘ 0! ’tis a cryingsin to take a woman in my condition outo’er a door.’ During their absence, Lepergoes and searches the bed, and below thebolster gets a bottle of rare whisky, of whichhe takes a hearty pull, and then pisses in itto make it up; gets a halfpenny worth ofsnuff, and puts it in also, shakes all to¬gether, and so sets it in its place again.Home they came, and she was exceedinglydistressed as a woman could be, and criedout, it was a horrid thing to take her outof the house. The tailor seeing her so bad,thought she would have died, ran as fast ashe could for a dram, but she in her hypoc¬risy pretended she could not take it, andcalled on him to help her to bed, into whichhe lays her. She was not well gone whenshe fell to her bottle, taking two or threehearty gluts ; then she roars out, 1 Murder,Lm poisoned, I’m poisoned.’ Locking andpurging began, and the neighbours werecalled in ; she lays her blood upon poorLeper, and tells how such an honest womanbrought her a’e bottle as another was done.13and the murdering loon had stolen it andput in a bottle of poison instead of it. Lepertook to his heels, but was pursued andcarried before a Justice of the Peace, wherehe told all he had done, which made thej ustice laugh heartily at the joke; and thetailor’s wife was well purged from herfeigned sickness, laziness, and cursed illnature; for always when she began to curlher nose for the future, the tailor had nomore to say, but ‘ Maggy mind the bottle.’Leper was working with a master-tailorin Glasgow, who hungered his men ; andone morning, just when breakfast was seton the table, in comes a gentleman to tryon a suit of clothes. The master beingobliged to rise, desired the lads to say thegrace themselves. Every one refused it,and put it to his neighbour, till Leper un¬dertook it, and said with an audible voice,that the stranger gentleman might over¬hear him, as follows:- ‘Och, hoch! we area parcel of poor beastly bodies, and we areas beastly minded ; if we do not work weget nothing to eat; yet we are always eat¬ing and always fretting; singing and halfstarving is like to be our fortune; scartingsand scrapings are the most of our mouth¬fuls. We would fain thank Thee, for ourbenefactors are not worthy the acknow¬ledging;—hey. Amen.’ The gentlemannlaughed till his sides were like to hurst, andgave Leper half-a-crown to drink.Leper was not long done with his ap¬prenticeship till he set up for himself, andgot a journeyman and an apprentice, wascoming into Very good business, and hadhe restrained his roguish tricks, he mighthave done: very well. He and his lads be¬ing employed to work in a farmer’s house,where the housewife was a great miser, andnot. very cleanly in making meat, andsnivelled through her nose greatly whenshe spoke. In the morning, when she wentto mako the potage, she made a fashion ofwashing the pot, which to appearanceseemed to him to have been among the firstthat had been made; then sets it before thefire till she went to the well, in which timeLeper looking into it, sees two great holesstapped with clouts, he takes up his goose,and holds it as high as his head, then letsit drop into the pot, which knocked out thebottom of it. Presently in comes the wifewith the water, and pours it into the pot,which set the fireside all in a dam, for stillas she poured in, it ran out: the wife beingshort-sighted, or what they call sand blind,looks into the pot, holds up both her handsand cries, ‘ Losh, preserve me, sirs, for thegrip atween the twa holes is broken.’ SaysLeper, ‘ the pot was old enough; but do you15not ken that tailor’s potage is heavier thanother men’s.’ ‘Indeed, lad, I believe it, butthey say ye’re a warlock ; it’s Wednesdayto me indeed, my pot might ha’e servedme this fifty year, a sae wad it e’en.’This sport diverted Leper and his ladsthrough the day, and after supper, knowinghe was to get some dirty bed, as the cowsand the people lived all in one apartment,he chose rather to go home; and knowingthe moon was to rise a little after midnight,he sat by the fire, told them many a finestory to drive away the time, and bade thewife make the bed to see how it might be.To save candle she made it in the dark, juston the floor behind where they sat, shak¬ing down two bottles of straw. A calfwhich chanced to be lying on that place,and which the wife did not notice, wascovered with the straw, and the bed clothesspread over it. The most of the familybeing in Toed, the wife told them to go tobed also, but Leper knowing of the calf,said, £ I’ll make my bed come to me,’ onwhich the wife begun to pray for herselfand all that was in the house ; so up hegets his ellwand, and gives a stroke on thebed which caused the brute to rise, andnot seeing where, to go, it fell a crying andturned round, which set the whole housea roaring out murder in their own tongue.1GThe goodwife ran to bed above the good-man, and the whole family cried out, notknowing what it was ; but Leper and histwo lads whipt off the blankets, and thebrute ran in among the rest unperceived;thtn Leper lighted a candle, and all ofthem got out of bed, paid Leper for hiswork, and more if he pleased, and beggedhim to go away, and take the devil withhim. So home he went, but never wasemployed by that wife any more.Leper had a peal of the best customersboth in town and country; so one time hehad occasion to go to the parish of Inchinan,to make a wedding suit for a gentleman.After they were finished, he desired drinkmoney for his lads, which the gentlemanrefused. Leper resolved to be even withhim, so he goes to the hay loft where thegroom slept, and takes his stockings,breeches, and jacket, sewed thepi together,and stuffs them full of hay; makes a head,puts a rope about the neck, and hangs iton a tree, opposite to the laird’s window ;then goes to the laird and tells him thathis groom had hanged himself, and that ifhe would open his window he would seehim hanging; the laird was struck withastonishment, and knew not what to do;Leper advises him to bury him privately.The laird said he had not a servant he17could trust, so begged Leper to do it.Leper refuses, till the laird promises hima load of meal; then Leper pulls out allthe hay out of the groom’s clothes; goesand gets his load of meal, and sends it toGlasgow; then goes to the groom, andsays, ‘ Thy master is wanting thee.’ bothe lad in all haste runs to see what hismaster wanted. The laird no sooner sawhim open the door than he cried out,‘ Avoid thee, Satan ; avoid thee, Satan !’The lad says, ‘ What’s the matter?’ ‘Didyou not hang yourself this morning?’‘ Lord forbid!’ said the lad. The laird says,‘ If thou be an earthly creature, take thattankard and drink;’ which he did. Thensays he to his master, ‘ Leper called meup, and said you wanted me in all haste.’‘ Ho, ho,’ said the laird, ‘ I find out thestory now; if I had Leper, I would runmy sword through him. ’ But Leper beforethat was gone to Glasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads theirSunday’s supper, which obliged him to stayfrom the kirk in the afternoon, he havingneither wife nor servant maid; so one Sun¬day afternoon, as he was cooking his pot,John Mucklecheek, and James Puff-and-blaw, two civileers, having more zeal thanknowledge, came upon him, and said,‘ What’s the matter, sir, you go not to the18‘kirk ?’ Leper replied,. c I’m reading mybook and cooking my pot, which I thinkis a work of necessity.’ Then says the oneto the other, ‘ Don’t answer that gracelessfellow; well make him appear before hisbetters.’ So they took the kail pot, andputs a staff through the bools, and bearsit to the Clerk’s chamber. Leper, who wasnever at a loss for invention, goes to thePrincipal of the College’s house, no .bodybeing at home but a lass roasting a leg ofmutton. Leper says, ‘ My dear, will yougo and bring me a drink of ale, and I’llturn the spit till you come back,’ The lasswas no sooner gone than he runs awaywith the leg of mutton, which served hislads and him for their supper. When thePrincipal came home, he was neither tobaud nor to bind, he was so angry ; so onMonday he goes and makes a complaint tothe Lord Provost, who sends two officersfor Leper, who came immediately. MyLord asked him how he dared to take awaythe Principal’s mutton. Leper replied,‘ How dared your civileers to take awaymy kail pot ? I’m sure there is leas sinin making a pot full of kail, than roastinga leg of mutton; law makers should notbe law breakers, so I demaiid justice onthe civileers.’ The Provost asked himwhat justice he would have. Says he,19‘ make them carry the pot hack again; andto the Principal, a leg of mutton will notmake him and me fall out.’ So they wereforced to carry the pot back again ; andLeper caused the boys to huzza after themto their disgrace.There was a barber who always plaguedLeper, and called him ‘ Prick-the-louse.’Leper resolved to be even with him, so hegoes and buys three sheep heads, and sendsfor the barber, and told him that therewere three fine Southland gentlemen justcome to his house, which much wanted tobe shaved ; and he assured him 1m wouldreceive sixpence for each of them. Thisgood news made the shaver send for adram. Leper was still praising them: forquiet good natured gentlemen. So Lepertakes him to the bed where the she'ep holdslay covered, and desired him to awakenthem for they Would not be angry, or sayan ill word to him. The barber lifts thecovering and sees the sheep heads, runsout cursing and swearing, and Leper cry¬ing -aftef him; ‘ Sheep head barber.’The barber resolved to be revenged onLepei'j so when he was shaving M ess John,he tells him that Leper was the drunkenaStfellow in the parish. So Mess John warnshim to the session.1 Leper comes and says,‘ What do you want with me, Sir?’ !‘Conm20away, Leper,’ says Mess John, ‘I hear abad report of you.’ ‘ Me Sir, I am surethey were not my friends that told youthat.’ ‘ Indeed, I am informed you are adrunkard.’ ‘ I a drunkard ; you have nota soberer man in your parish. Stop, Sir,I will tell you how I lead my life:—Inthe morning, I take a choppin of ale anda bit of bread, that I call my morning ;for breakfast, I generally take a herringand a choppin of ale, for I cannot sup broselike my lads ; the herring makes me dry,so at eleven hours I take a pint, and some¬times three choppins ; at supper, I take abit of bread and cheese and a pint, and sogo to bed.’ Mess John says, ‘ It’s exces¬sive drinking ; I allow you one half of itfor a quarter of a year.’ Says Leper, ‘I’lltry it, Sir, and come back and tell you ’At the end of the quarter he draws out hisaccount, and goes to Mess John, who wassitting with his elders in the Session-house,and says, ‘ Sir, I have a demand on you.’‘ On me, Sir.’ ‘ Yes, on you, Sir ; don’tyou remember you allowed me so muclidrink for a quarter of a year, and I wantthe money.’ ‘Am I to pay your reckoning,Sir,’ ‘You allowed it, and if you wontpay it, I’ll take you before the Provost.’The elders advised him to pay it or hewould be atfronted; so Leper got the\l—. 21money. When lie was at the door, he says,k Sir, will you stand another quarter/ ‘ Getaway, says Mess John, and don’t troubleme/ Leper says, ‘ I am sure you may,for I am always twopence to your penny/THE END.AJXBCOOTBS.INCONVENIENCE OE A PETITION.A reverend Gentleman, when visitinghis parishioners, was in one house first sal¬uted with the growling of a dog, and after-wards by the cheering voice of a female.])— ning the dog for his ill-breeding, headvanced and enquired for the master ofthe house. ‘ W hat do ye want wi’ that ?’said the female. ‘We are wishing to seehim,’ said the Reverend Gentleman, ‘ willye be so good as bring him to us ?’ ‘ I’llgang nae sic an errand,’ said she; ‘ ye maygang doon to the market yersel’, an’ ye’llsee him there; they’re thrang killin’ theday. But what are ye wantin’ wi’ Fate,if a body micht speir.’ ‘ This is the min¬ister,’ said the elder who accompanied him,‘he is wishing to have some conversationwith Peter, and to put up a petition.’ ' Apetition! a petition!’ exclaimed the matron,‘ ye’ll put up me petition here; the house00is wee oncugli already// an’ wha do yetliink’s garni to be fashed wi’ masons an’v,-rights, an’ a’ than clanjamfray about theirhouse? Faith no—the devil a petition willbe putten up in this house as lang’s amin’t; we're gaun to flit at Whitsunday, soye may come then an’ put up as monypetitions as ye like.'DUKE OF BUCCLEUCH.Henry, Duke of Buceleuch was greatlybeloved by his numerous tenantry. One ofhis small tenants, Jamie Howie by name,had a son about four years of age, who,having heard much of the great Duke ofBuocleubh, was very anxiohs to see him.Honest J amie, in a few days, was honouredwith a visit from the Duke; when Jamiedoffing his bonnet, and making a reverentialbow, says, ‘ O, my lord! ye mamma beangry wi’ me, but it’s God’s truth, mylord, there’s a daft wee callant o’ minethat canna rest, nor let others rest, nichtnor day ; he 1 has ta’en in his head sic anotion o’ seeing what like: ye are; gude-sake, my lord, I dinna think he has onyyedea ye are a man at a’, but some far awa,outlandish, ower sea creature.’ The Duke,mightily tickled with this fancy, desiredJamie to bring the youngster into his pre¬sence forthwith. Out comes the juvenile23inquisitor, Avitli his finger in his mouth,and cautiously reconnoitres the personagebefore him. At last quoth the urchin,‘Can ye soom?’ ‘No, my little fellow,”replied his grace, ‘ I canna soom/ ‘ Canye flee?’ ‘ No, I canna flee.’ ‘ Weel, man,for as muckle’s ye’re, I wadna gie ane o’my father’s dukes for ye, for they can baith.soom an’ flee.’A. BANE TO PIKE.Some hoys diverting themselves in oneof the streets of Edinburgh, observed on adoor, a brass phfle with Al—x—nd—rGuthrie, W.S., engraved on it. In theirdiversion, they broke a pane of glass in oneof the windows, upon which Mrs. Guthrieand the maid sallied forth and seized .oneof the delinquents. ‘ Ye young rascal,what’s yer name?’ says the lady. ‘ Saundy,’replied the boy. ‘What’s yer ither name?’‘Guthrie.’ ‘ Wha’s yer mither?’ ‘Mymither sells bird’s cages.’ ,‘ Whaur does'she live?’ ‘I’the Patter Raw/ ‘Wha’syer father?’ ‘ I dinna ken/ ‘Do ye noken yer faither?’ ‘Na! he ne’er comes butwhan it’s dark, an’ naehody kens bit mymither.’ Upon hearing this, the lady ina passion let go her victim, and runninginto the room where her husband was sit¬sing, fell a-scolding him like a fury about21his infidelity towards her. The youngrogue laughed heartily at the success ofhis fraud, and turning to his coinpanious,said to them, ‘I think I’ve gi’en her abane to pike!’SEEING ONE DEUNK.The late Eev. Mr. C , of D ,Aberdeenshire, was fond of his friend anda bottle; he sacrificed so often and so freelyto the jolly god, that the presbytery couldno longer overlook such proceedings, andsummoned him before them to answer forhis conduct. One of the elders, and con¬stant companion in his social hours, wascited as a witness against him. ‘ Well,John (says one of the presbytery to theelder), did you ever see the Rev. Mr. C the worse of drink?’ ‘ Weel a wyte, no ;I’ve mony a time seen him the better oT,but I ne’er saw him the waur o’t’ ‘ But,did you never see him drunk?’ ‘ That’swhat I’ll ne’er see, for before he be halfslockened, I’m aye blind fu’.’$ FINIS. $0—a