JOE MILLER’SJESTS.BEINGACOLLECTION0 2The mod briltam Ted*, ? mod p'eafancIhort Stories in rhs Engli h Language;The greateft Part of which ar** t Icen fromthe Mouth of that facetious Oi-ntleiiiaawhofe name they bear.Joe Miller’s Jests.JOE MILLER going with a friend one dayalong Fleet-ftreet, and feeing old Crofsthe player, who was very deaf, and unwillingthat any fhould know it, on the other fide ofthe way, folcj his friend he fhould fee fomefport; fo beckoning Crofs with his finger, andfiretching open his mouth as wide as ever, hecould as if he hallooed to him, though he faidnothing* the old fellow came puffing from theother fide of the way. What a pox do youmake fuch a noife for, d° you think one can’thear ?Joe Miller another day fitting in the win¬dow at the taverm in Clare-ftreef, while a fiffi-woman was palling by, crying, Buy my foal,buy my maids ! Ah ! you wicked creature,faid Joe. are y6u not content to fell your ownfoul, but you mufl fell your maids alfo.A perfon of quality coming into a churchwhere feveral of his anceftors lay buried, after.he had praifed them very much for worthy' men. Well, faid he, I am rdolved,, if I live,to be Juried as near Utem as pofiible.One man told another, who ufcd not to beclothed very often, that his new coat was too it(s'long for him : That’s true, anfwered the other,but it will be longer before I get anotherA poor man who had a termagant wife, af¬ter a very long difpute, in which (he was re-folved to have the laft word, told her. if ihefpoke one crooked word more he would beather brains out: Why then, Ram’s Horns,you rogue, faid ftiej if l die for it.A certain country Squire alked a M> rryAndrew why he played the fool ? For the famereafon* faid he, as you do, for want $ youdo it for want of wit, I for want of m mevA Wdfhman bragging of his fa nily iaid,that his father’s effigy was fet uo in Weil ituli¬fter Abbey ; being afked whereabouts, ne l ud,in the fame monument with Sq tire rhynne,for he was his coachmanA certain lady finding her hufband topfamiliar with her chambermaid, tumeu her a-way immediately. Huffey, faid Ihe l haveno occafion for fuch fluts as you only to dowhat work I chufe not to do myfjfA gentleman alked a lady at Tunbridge,who had made a very large acquaintance a-inong the beaux there, what Ihe would do wi’hthem all ? O, faid fhe, they pafs off like thewaters. And pray, madam, faid he, do theyall pafs the fame way ?A very fomnlefs Irifhman was eating an p-ple-pie whh fome quinces in it. Ar m jiodear honey, faid he. it fo few of thele quincesgive fuch a flavour now would an applt-pyetalk made ail of quinces.A young gemlem .n playing at queftion andcomnunds with fome pretty young ladies, wa«( 4 )commanded to take a garter from ona of them;but fhe, as foon as he laid hold of her petti¬coat, ran away into the next room, where wasa bed : Now, madam, faid he, I bar fqeaking.Bar the door, faid /he.An Irifh lawyer of the temple having occa-fion to go to dinner, left this direction in thekey hole, Gone to the Elephant and Ca/lle,where you wit! find me, and if you cannotread this, carry it to the ftationer's, and hewill read it for you.Two Oxford fcholars meeting on the roadwith a York/hire oftler, they fell to banteringhim ; and told him. That they would provehim to be an horfe o? an afs Well, faid theoftler. I can prove your faddle to be a mule.A mule, faid one of them, how can that be ?Becaufe, faid the oftler, it is fomtthing be¬tween a horfe and an afs.An EngK/h gentleman happening to be inBrecknockfhire, ufed fometimes to divert him-felf with /hooting, but being fufpe&ed not be¬ing qualified, was fent for by one of the littleWeHh Jufiices. His Worfliin told him, un-lefs he could produce his qualification, heihould not allow him to /hoot there, and hehad too little manors. Yes, fir, laid the gen¬tleman, any one may perceive that. Perceivewhat; cried the Welfhman. 1 hat you havetoo little manners, cried the other.The chaplain's boy of a man of war, beingfent out of his own fhip on an errand to an-*4ther, the boys were conferring notes aboutfheir manner of fiving. How often do you goto prayers now; Why.,: anfwered the other,:in cafe of a florm, or the apprehenficij of anydanger from an enemy. Aye, faid the fiift,there is fomc fence in that; but my mailer !makes us go to prayers when there is ho moreoccafion for it, than for my leaping overboard,A certain lady at Whitehall, of great quail- 'tyv but very little modefty, having lent for herlinen-draper to bring her fome hollands. as| foon as the young fellow entered the room, Ofir, faid Ihe, 1 find you are the man for the bu-j iinefs for you no fooner look a lady in the face,but you have the yard in one hand, and arelifting up the linen with the other.King Henry the Eight defigning to fend anobleman on an embaffv to Francis the Firft,at a very dangerous juncture, he begged to bei exculed, faying, Such a threatning mefTige tol fo hot a Prince as Francis the Fifft, might goi near to coll him his head. Fear not, faid Old1 Harry, if the French King fhould offer to take3 eway your life, I will revenge it by taking offi the heads of the Frenchmen now in my power.I But of all thefe heads, replied the nobleman,i not one would fit my fhouiders.A Prince laughing at one of his nobles whom1 he had employed in feveral emballies, told himri he looked like an owl. I know nbt laid thea courtier, what 1 look like, but this l know,!1 that I have had the honour feveral times to re.*<;^prefenryour Majefty’s perfon.A Mayor of Yarmouth, in antient times, be^iling by his office a Juffke of the.peaee, and one/who was willing to dilpence the law s in the wif-heft manner, though he could hardly read, got; ihimffclt the ftatute book, where turning a law a-( 6 )ga?nft fiifnc a hp?con, cr caufing one to be fi-reii h< ni u. Fningbacon, or caufing oneto be frie.i ; arid acc rdingly wept out nextnight upon the ;ctnr. aridi»eing direded by hisnote to the carrier’s houi'e, he found a man andboth fryi ig bacon, the hufo nd holdingthe’ pa!;, while the wife turned it. Being thuscaught in th<- fr.ft and having nothing to fayfor thende ves, is VVro fh:p committed themtoth to priion without bail or mainprife.A country fellow was fupcenuted for a wit-refs upon a trial on an a&n n of defamation jhe hemg fworn. the Judge led him repeat the ,ve’y fame words he had heard fpoken. Fheft w'was loath to /p.ak, and hummed andhawed for a good fpace ; but being urged by •th Judge, he at lid ipoke. My Lord- laidhe you are a cuckold * he judge .teeing allthe people bi gin >o Jaugh at him, ealied 10 him,and rui him tpe k to ihe jury, thc;e weretwe'vr of themA g nuunan fpeakir.g of Peggy V^ates the ;famous courtejfan, who had always an abun-Jcianct. of fine clothes, laid, fhe was like a fquir-^ftl. for ihe was alw^yv coveiing htr back wuiiher toil.A gentleman faid one day at table, that hecould not tnduie a breaft of mutton Yott laid,fo the other day, laid another, of a orcailo' veal Very true 1 anfwtred the firft, 1 dopot love the bre ft of any thing but tuat of awcman, and that goes againlt my ftomach.A womuii who was gro wing big with cliijd,,who had two gallmrs. on or thtm with aHwoofien Lg j tiiw tjueition was put, which ©f i( 7 )the two fhould father the ehild. He who hadthe wooden leg offered to decide it in the fol¬lowing manner : If the child, fays he, comesinto the world with a wooden leg, l will fatherit; if not, then it muff be yours.A gentleman who had been a (hooting,brought home a fmall bird with him, and ha-,ving an Triffi fervant, he afked him if ne hadfliot that little bird ? Yes, he told him Ar-rah, by mydhoul, honey, replied the Irishman,it was not worth the powder and (hot, for thislittle thing would have died in the fall.ihe fame Irifhman being at a tavern, wherethe cook was drefling fome carp, he obfervedthat fome of the ftlh moved, after they weregutted and put into the pan, which much fur*prifed honeft Teague. Well, now by myfaith, faid he, of ail the chriltian creatures thats^ver i faw> this fame carp will live the longeftafter it is dead.A certain gentleman happening to turn upagainft a houfe to make water, did not fee tut>young ladies looking out at a window clofe by,until he heard them when he afked them whatmade them fo merry ? O, faid one of them,a little thing will make us lauglnA young fellow riding down a deep hill,doubting the foot of it was boggifh, called outto a clown that was ditching, and afktd if it washard at the bottom ? Aye, anfwered the coun¬tryman, it is hard enough at the bottom, Iwill warrant you. But in half a dozen fteps'the horfe funs up to the fadtiie girths whichmade the young gallant whip, fpar, curfe, andfvvear. Why, you whorefon of a ralcal, faid( 8 )'he to the ditcher, didfl; thou not tell me that itwas hard at the bottom ? Aye, faid the ditcher,but you are not half way to the bottom yet.An Englifhman and a Wtifhman difputingin whofe country was the beft living ; faid theWeHhman, there is fuch noble houfekeepingin Wales, that I have known above a dozen<ooks employed at one wedding dinner. Aye,xeplied the Engliftiman, that was becaufe everyinan toafted his own cheefe.A perfon being near.his end, a woman wholived in the neighbourhood fent her m<nd toknow how he did ; he bid the girl tell her mift-refs he hoped he Was going to the New Jeru-fafem Ah ! dear, faid /he, f think the air ofIflington would do you more good.A young lady who had been married but aihort time, feeing her hufband going to rifepretty early in the morning, laid. What, mydear, are you getting up already ? pray lie aJittle longer, and relt yourfelf No my dear, ^replied the hufband, I’ll get up and reft rnyfelf.One lofing a bag of moiiev of about fifty jpounds, between the Temple Gate and TempleBar, fixed up a paper, offering a reward tothofe who took it and Ihould return it. Upon ;which the perfon that had it, came and wroteunderneath it to the following effeft : Sir, Ithank you for the offered reward, but indeedyou really bid me to my lofc.One failor coming to fee another on a pay¬day, defired to borrow twenty Ihillings of him.The monied man fell to telling out the fum inijhiliings, but a half crown thrufting in its head,|)Ut him out, and he began to tell again $ butCD)then an impertinent crown piece was as impu¬dent as his half brother had been, and againinterupted the iaie ; fo that taking up a hand¬ful of filver, he cried, Here Jack, give me ahandful when your (hip is paid off, what a poxfignifies counting of it.A very humourous countryman havingbought a barn in partnerfhip with a neighbourof his, neglt&cd to make the leaft ufe of it,while the other had plentifully ftored his partwith corn and hay. In a little time the latter3 came to him, and confcientioufly expoflulatedwith him about laving out his money to fo littlepurpofe. Why, neighbour, faidhe, pray ne¬ver trouble your head, you may do what youwill with your part of the barn, but l will fetmine on fire,A gentleman afked Nancy Rochford, Whythe Whigs in their mourning for Queen Annwore fi!k (lockings ? Said (he, becaufe the To¬ries were worded.The famous Tom Thynne, who was remark¬able for his good houfe-keeping and hofpitality.Handing one at gate in the country, a begget*came up to him, and craved a mug of (mailbeer Why how now, faid he, what timesarc thefe, when beggars muft be choofers I fIfay bring this fellow a mug of ftrong beer.Some gentlemen going into a bawdy houfetavern at Charing Crofs, found a great dearot lault with the houfe, and the wine, and fend¬ing for the mailer, told him it was fad fluff, andI Very w eak, it may be fo, faid he, for my tradedoes not depend on the flrength of my winesbut that of my tables and chairs. *( )  A profligate young nobleman being in com¬pany with fome fober people, defired leave to' toaftthe Devil. The gentleman who fat nexthim faid, he had no objtdion to any of hisLordlhip’s particular friends.A gentleman fuid of. a young wench who[ conftantly plied about the Temple, that if flieI had as much law in her head as ihe had in hertail, flie w ould be one of the abltft council inEngland.A certain lady of quality fending her Xrifhfootman to fetch home a p ur ot new ttays,ftridly charged him to take a couch if it rained,for fear of wetting them. Bat a great fhp werfalling, the fellow returned with the Hays drip¬ping wet i and.being ieverely reprimanded fornot doing as he was ordered, he laid he had o-beyed his orders. How then, anlwered thelady, could the flays be wet if you took theminto the coach with you ? No, replied honeftTeague, I know my place better, I did not getinto the coach, but rode behind, as 1 alwaysufed to do.Two honed gentlemen who dealt in brooms,meeting one. day in the ftreet. one afked the jother, how the devil he could afford to underfell him as he did, when he dole the duff, jand made the brooms himfelf? Why, you frl- 1ly dog, replied the other, l deal them readymade-A young gentlewoman who had married awild fpark that had run through a plentifulfortune, and was reduced unto draiis was in-pocently faying to him one day, My dear, l —( II )11 want {hlfts fadly. How can that be, repliedhe, when we make fo many every day.An Irifliman having been obliged to livewith his mafter lome time in Scotland, when: he came home again fome of his companionsafked him how he liked Scotland ? I will tellyou now', faid he, I was Tick all the while I^ was there, and if 1 had lived there till thistime I had been dead a year ago.Mr, Dryden once at dinner, being by ajadyoffered the rump of a fowl, he refufing it, thelady faid Pray Mr. Dryden take it, the rumpis the beft part of the fowl. Yes Madam,faid he, and fo 1 think it is of the fair.A factious teacher of arithmetic who hadlong been married without being able to gethis wile with child ; one faid to her, Madam,your bufband is an excellent arithmetician.Yes - replied {he. only he cannot multiply.A cowardly fervant having been out a hunt¬ing with his mafter. they bad killed a wildj; boar. I he fellow thinking the boar ftirred,' be ook himfelf to a tree ; upon which his ma-j. ff<r called to him and afked him. What he wasafraid of. as the boar's guts were out ? no mat-; Ur for that, faid he, his teeth are in.A butcher in Smithfield, who lay upon hisdeath bed, faid to his wife My dear, I amhot a man for this world, therefore 1 advileyou to marry our man John, he is a luftyyoung fellow, and fit for your turn. O dearhufband, faid fhe, if that be all, let it nevertrouble you, for we have already agreed uponthat matter.When his late Majefty in coming from Hoi;* ( *2 )happened to meet with a ftorm at fea, thecaptain of the yaich faid to the chaplain, Do&-or, in five minutes mere we (hall be with theLord, the Lord forbid, anfwered the Doctor, iA taylor fent his bill to a lawyer for money. |The lawyer bid the boy tell his mailer. Thathe was not running away, but very bufy atthat time. The boy comes again, and tells,him he muft needs have the money. Did youtell your mafter, faid the lawyer, that I was |not running away. Yes, anfwered the boy, buthe bid me tell you that he was.One Irifhnian meeting another, alked. What ,was become of their old acquaintance Patrick ■Murphy ? Arrah ? now, dear honey, anfwer¬ed the other, he was condemned to die, buthe laved his life by dying in prilon.One afked his friend Why he, being fuch ]a proper man himfelf, had married fo Imall awife ? Why, friend, faid he, I thought youhad known that of evils we fhould chufe the :leaft.A gentleman having fent for his carpenter’s ■fervant to knock a nail or two in his ftudy, jthe fellow, after he had done it, laid* Sir, Ihope you will give me fomething to make me :drink. There is pickle herring for yon, faid .the gentleman, and if that does not make youdrink, I will give you another.Two gentlemen, one named Chambers andthe other Garret, riding by Tyburn, faid thefir ft, This would be a pretty tenement if it hada garret. You fool, fays Garret, don't youknow there muft be chambers firft.A lawyer being Tick, made his will, and( >3 )tavs all his eflates to fools and madmen ?eiug afked the reafon for fo doing, he anfwer-d. From fuch I had them, and to fuch l givelem again.An Iri(h gentleman being with feme ladiesn a nobleman’s garden, where was a largeEton roller, told them, he thought it was theuirgeft iron rolling {lone that he ever faw.:J! Two Irifhmen having travelled on foot fromKhefter to Barnet, were much tired and fatgu-:d with their journey and the more fo when^hey were told that they had ftill ten miles toIfLondon. By my (hoal and St Patrick, criesmne of them, it is but five miles a piece, let’s1 pen walk on.Gun Jones, who made a handfome fortune||rom a very mean beginning, happening tot:Dave fome words wuih a perfbn who had knownjkim for fome time, was afked by the other,illow he could have the impudence to give hirn-hielf fo many airs to him. when he knew verywell that he remembered him feven years ago,lichen he had hardly a rag to his arte ? You lie,•iSrrah, replied Jones, for feven years ago I hadNothing but rags to my arfe.A traveller coming into the kit hen of an•nn, in a very cold night, flood fo clofe to theme,, that he burnt his boots An arch wag.jl'ho fat in the chimney corner, faid to him,.Sir, you’ll burn your fpnrs prefently. Myoaoots, you mean, I fuppofe, faid the gentle-;imn No, fir, replied the other, they are-•c furnt already.A great courtier for a long time havingojlone but daughters, his wife prayed very ear-C 4 )nefHy that Hie mio;hi have a boy; at lad: theyhad a boy, who when he came to man’s eftateproved but fimple: Thou prayedft fo long fora boy, faid her huiband, that at laft thou haftgot one, who will be a boy as long as he lives.A country clergymm meeting a neighbour fwho never came to church, although an oldfellow about fixty, he gave him fome reproof fon that account, and ulked him if he ever read ;at home ? No, replied the elown. 1 cannotread : I dare fay, faid the parlbn, you don’tknow who made you ? Not I, in troth, criedthe countryman. A little boy coming by atthe fame time, Who made you, child ? faidthe parfon. God, fir, atlfwered the boy.Why, look you there, quoth the clergyman,are you not aftiamed to hear a child five or fixyears old tell me who made him, when you,who are fo old a man cannot ? Ah ! faid the'countryman it is no wonder that he fhould re¬member ; he was made but the other day, |and it is a long while, meafter, fince I wasmade. tAfter the fire of London, there was an adto regulate the buildings of the city; everylhoufe was to be three Itories high, and there!was to be no balconies backwards: A Glou-•cefter gentleman a man of great wit and hu-xnour, juft after this ad paffed, going alongthe {freer, and feeing a little crooked womanon the other fide of the way, he runs over to-her in great hafte ; Lord, madam, faid he,liow dare you walk thus publicly in the fireet lAnd why not, pray, fir ? anfwered the little Ifwoman. Becaufe, replied he, vou are built ;( IS }•;ire£tly contrary to the a£l of parliament; you:re but two jlories high, and your balconyuangs over vour houfe of office.. A certain boy was boafting in company thathad every fenfe in perfection. No. faid oneho was by. there is one you are entirely with-it, and that is common fenfe.Dr. Tadloe, who was a man of a very en-mous fize. happening to go thump, thump,jjmh his gteat legs through the ftreet where the*|aviours were at work in the middle of July,jgiey laid down their rammers. Ah! God blefsijpou, mafter, cries one of them, it is very kindif you to come this way; it faves us a greati: eal of trouble this hot weather.Three or four roguifh fcholars walking outline day from the Univerfity of Oxford, efpiedT poor fellow by Abingdon alleep in a ditch,with an afs by him, laden with earthen ware,■' m olding the bridle in his hand ; faid one of theipholars to the reft, if you will affift me. I’ll■i relp you to a little money, for you know wesjre bare at prefent. So they confented. Whyyen, faid he, we’ll go and fell this fellow’s afs£ Abingdon, as the fair is to morrow, there*nore do you take the paniers off, and put themrj pon my back, and the bridle over my head,.':nd then lead the afs to the market, and letffiie ^lone with the old man. This being doneifccordingly. in a little rime after the poor manftwaking, was ftrangely furprifed to fee his afslihus ftrangely metamorphofed. ' O for God’s*4§ke ! faid the fcholar, do take this bridle outiff my mouth, and this load off my back,eunds 1 how came you there ? replied the o’d1( i6 )man. Why, faid he, my father, who is a ne¬cromancer, upon an idle thing that l did to dif-oblige him, transformed me inm an afs; butnow his heart is relented, and l am come to my jown fliape again ; and l beg you will let ms ^go home and thank him. 3y all means fail ithe crockery merchant, I do not deiire to have ;any thing to do with conjurati m and fo fetathefcholar at liberty, and he went immediate-ily to his companions, who were ny that time 'making themfelves merrv with the money theyhad fold the afs for, Bur the old fellow was o-ibliged to go next day to fcek a new one at thefair, and after having looked at feveral, hisown was (hewn to him for a very good one.O ! O! laid he. what have he and his fatherquarrelled again already. No, no, i will have Jnothing to fay to him.FINIS.