Princess’ Happy Marriage.IN FOUR t -A >GL VHGO 'vV:Published and Sold W .cie ,; -d R ' ; t, bf ♦ •• * JHE FACTOR'S GARLAND.BEHOLD here’s a dirty, the truth and no just,Co. cen'ing a young gemiem- n ia the east,Who by his gre t gaming, came to pAnd ajTterwaids went many a voyage to sea.Being well educate, . id cne%- great wit,Three merchants in London they all thought it fit,To make him then Captain urn', Factor also,Arc! for them to Turkey a voyage he din go.And walking along the streets there he found,A poor mart’s dead carcase lying cm the ground:He fcshed the reason, why he there did lie?Then one f the natives did mak* this reply,That «ian was a Christian Sir, while ge drew breath,The cutyViinpai . he !ie* above the earth,"Why, tat Hie the dude1-? the Fa. toi he cried,Jt is fifty pcuti.)*, Sir, tt.e 1 urk h. repliedThat i a great sum, qucth the Factor indeed;To see him he rhere, n.akes rey heart, for to bleed: *"So then by the Facto! the money was paid,And tl'.er under ca*ih the head carc,.se was laid.When L\j\iv,g jmne furtJ.er, t.y chance he did spyA beautiful creature ju-. going to die,A young waiving maid who strangled must be,Tor nothing but striking a Turkish Lady.To think of her dying, wish oread he was fill’d,Then rivers of rears !;ke waters distrlTchLike s:rearns oi a fountain, from her eyes rao downHer red rosy ci eeks, and fretn tuence to the pround.lieariig wijt bet crime was, he, to end the strife,Said, What must I give for this p* or creature’s life?The ahswci rctuined, was an hundrei f ound*,The which for * < r■ parder he freely paid down.. • He said, Faifesl cita.ure, tiny ue-epif g rtfraitf.At s be cf gccci comfert, thou shaii not be Lain*,i3Behold, I hgsu; purchas’d thy pardon, will yeBe willing (« go to fair li,ng!aad with me; ^She said, Sir, l thank you who freed me from death,I’m hound to obey you so iong’s 1 have breath,And if you ere willing, to fair England I’ll g',j And due respect to you till death I will show.P A R T II.He brought her to London, whereas it is said,I He set up housekeeping, and made Iter his maid,For to wait upon him, and landing her just,With the kevs of h s riche* he did her intrust.At Last this young Factor was hired once mote,: To cross the proud waves and billows coat roar;And s^to that country his course was to steer,Which oy hi\ maid’s father was govern’d we hear.Being a hot country, thi m id did prep ire,II To get light robes in that courriy to wear;Fie bought a silk vaistes at, le which it h told,His servant-maid flow’red with silver and gold*She aid to him, Master, I do understand,| You are going Factor unto such a land,| And,if you that Pnace’s court enter in,l Be sure that ihis flow’red garment be seen.He said, To that Prince’s court I must go,] The meaning of your words I long for to know,1 Sir, I will not Hjl you, some^reason you’ll find.With that he replied, I’ll f..ifil thy mind,Then atray he sailed and came to the shore,This Factcr he canpe to the Emperor’s door,For it was the usual custom of that place,To present some noble gift unto bis Grace.iiii gift was accepted, and as he stood by,On this fiow’red garn>cnt, the Prince cast an eye*2(rt... ;4-' Which made hi a? to colour and this he did saf,VJho Uow’red rlw g\rmer>>? now tell ne, s |>rjy.If it please your Grace, my la-t v va^e w* to FurkeyVWhere I saw a creature that stranded must be.And to sa*h?.r I 'e, gave an hundred pound,And carried her with me to fair L .ndon town;•There she’s mv house keeper, while I’m in this land.An-’ when of mv com ins sc did understand.She iaow’rtu this robe, and gave strict charge to me.To iec it b seen bv vour great MajestvThe Prince cried. Bepol f. iend tins robe which IIs of the same Hover and spot l do swear! ( wear,Thy "ad wrought them both, -he’s my daughter uar,I have not heard from her till cow rhes- three years.To pav a v - ‘t to some neighbouring Prince,I sent her In a ship, ard have ne’er seen her “ince;And t was afraid the tea had p ov’d her grave,But i. h-^ar/j to Turkey she was taken a slave.For the oss of mv child who I ’hotig.t had been kill’d,A well full of tea^s in mv court lias bSe<" spiil’djM» Princes'., her morhef, could for her not rest;Her ifj'.s drew millions of sighs from her breast.Thy ship shall be richly loaded with speed,And PI! send a ship for her convey indeed;Because of thy love; thou sav’d my child’s Life,Brurg hsr alive to me, I’ll make her thy wife.And if tbou should’st Hot hve to b. • g her to me.Whoe’er brings her hon e, his bride she shall be,Aad twenty thousand a year you shall have,That ventur’d my dear child’s life for o save.The ship being loaded, their inchor wis weighing,And he with his convoy came over tiie main,To fair London city, .ud home he did go,And gave this young Princess these tidings to know.P A R t rxHa said, Noble Lady, I hava "ftnd naws to toll,Th- old P.*:nce yno; fath'r and atKher’s .wK v/ellAnd vour royal parer.rs this th-n^ ;o ’d,In the b'md of wedlock: we both sha b join’d.Per’aos. n-'btr Lad? you w mid nor a^reeTo marry a poor >an especi» iy ne.-•Sn, were you a bcgyar, I would be ybur wife,Be.cau c, wot-n jusr dyt^g, yon saved -u« ife!1 ne’er shat' forgot tlr/t great tok 'n f level1 Of a ! men now bi-e.-ith»«g, I pr.ze •• bee above,ISmsv it is so order’d I’ *. w?i'- pie.-s’ l I vow,A d glid my dev fuher these t-tings lo allow.Pny srlt off y ur goods rhat vou save in store.And give a!) y mr .*oney to those that are poor;JAt l te us ne jogging wnh speed o’er the main*For l long tor to see my deaf parents again.This thing was soon done, and they sat ed away,!In the ship hat her father sent for her convoy;Bet ma- k ' bat was oc-ed or, rhe ocean wide,T< deprive the Factor of his Ro.al Bride.The Captain who conveyed fetsn ever the deep,i One r/yh as the Far or was Ltd in his sieep,Being unoer s-iil, over board did him throw,(h ring, Now I shall have th;s young creature I knowThere happ’ned to be a small island at hand.To which this Factor swam as I understand.And there I will leave him a while for to mourn,And unto the ship now again will return.Next morning then, soon as day-light did peep,He ■aak’d the young Princess out of her sleep;And said, Nobis- Lady, the Factor’s not here,He’s fali’n over board and drowned I fear,* GTo hoar hor sad news, then her eyes they did flowHe said, NoblelLvJy, since no'v it is so,There’s none here can help if, ,do not troubled be,For you in short space y-ur dees parents shad see.And when that they cams to the desired port,’ The Princess-cams weeping to her father's court; |jTTho gladly receiv’d her with joy and great mirth, uSay’ng, Where is the man that freed you from death:|(|The Captain replied, As he lay asleep,Pic fell overboard, and was drown’d in the deep;Your Grace said, He that your child home did bring,Should have her; I hope you’ll perform this thing.Yes, that was nay promise, the Monarch replied;What say’st thou, rr.y Jaughtei ? wilt then be his bride?She said, Yes, dear father, but first if you please,For him that sav’d my life, I’d mourn forty day*.Then into close mourn! ■ g this Lady she went,For the loss of her good friend, in tears to lament;And there I will leave her in tears for a while,And turn to the Factor who was left on the Isle,PARI’ IV.In this desert Island the Factor he lay,In Hoods of tears weeping two nights and a day;At length the ocean appear’d to bis.view,A little okl man paddling in a canoe.The Factor call’d to him, who caus’d him to stay,And drawing near to him, the old man he did say.How caudit thou hither? With eyes that did flow,He told him .the secret, and where he would go.The old man said to him, If here thou dost lie,With grief and great hunger in short thou wilt die.What wilt rhou give tne, to that court I’ll thee guide?I have nothing to give you, the Factor replied.■ VIf thou wiit promise arid be true to me,To give the first babe that is born to thee,When 30 months old, to that court Hi thee bring,I will not reieSse thee, without that very thing.The Factor consider’d that this would cause grief,tAnd without it, for him there was no relief;Ole cried, L’fe is sweet, and tny life lor to save,[Carry me to that place, and your will you shall have,pc soon’s he vses carried to the court and whenlie came to the gates, he saw his Lady thenLooking out of his window, who seeing him there.From grief transported to joy they were.He into the court then, with jov was receiv’d,Where his Lady met him, who lor him had griev'd.And said, My-dear jewel, my joy, and my dear,|Q! where have you tar. ied? I pray let me hear..Where so long he tarried, he then did relate,[And by what means he came to her father’s gate;ipe raid, l was thrown overboard in my sleep,t think ’twas the Captain threw me in the deep.With that the Captain was sent for with speed.And hearing the Faotor was come there indeed,To show Litmeil guilty, like a cruel knave,l.esj <nto the ocean, which proved his gmvp.Next with great triumph and joy we do th.d,I his Factor and Lady in marriage were join’d;^nd withi* the torn pass acd space of three year,'bey had a fine son and daughter we here.'ihe sen was ihe first-born, a perfect beauty,And was well be lov’d of the whole family,.Vhun SO months c d, came the man for his child,, lYho re.eas’d the Factor from toe desalt-Isle.A hen the Factor saw him, his eyes they bid fiow.He forc’d ro sop’re fh^rIn :hc dew,;t Me f. r.s w (.• Uuh'jt*'-. should dLs»»tH \ t’'k ihe tu>: > apprafr,Which . sde the fiotin fill’d thtravrith fea|i*C' V»rg, V. . *i hai: *v 0«>; stt/e he i< no- »B*; wjil 1 ivc oi r d v injt do aS 'hat can.Bt-said, If prc i t-'u ai>d ["'! hnw< n»Y- due,Ti er ’a one babe fee tuc and^iut k«T for vea,I wil -'.ave y-or firs? bi ro,• coo e givti'h'>tu to me#At which sit the ta;i ile wept 'v 'e iyThe babe’s .-.orhe.- cried ’ o otjev’d to the hTo thick that I v t such. ar tniant mua* fwwTo ere that should ctr y.h-fn,'L* rd knows whetejAnd perhaps in; piec- y darimg will 'earWith that shejsinoutc?;u a? d down the tea’-? fe!And then having k’T-' a m, she Im-ie him t ieweiSaying, It is for the t.ik ■ of ^ hu bard hat IDo part with my or >t a. tho’ lor him I he.So then this grim Or ■ >t t; her liusbana -aid saySir, do you remember Turkev tme day.You saw a dead ■ran’ -pse lyrny on ihe ground,And to have it buric -ou gaw btrv peuna:^ir, I am the sp’r r of. th-u dead ^ dy,I saved your life (or tl/.ai gr< d love to me;Y' u may beep your babe, so Go. bless you all*Then away it vai-isly-d ‘-uf of ; he hall!Be;ng gone, the old Pr i ce & his Prir.cew like wi1The babe’s tender pare* n k tears in tlv ir. eyeiWith jov they embrac’d tntir dathny thtir SSaying, Child, hauht then..of u we had beenmmloN>w fa leave the coo.i fo 1 i f ijo. mu mirth,To love cr,e auoi.h: ' woi i . }, v ... hepj b;ea.|VaAnd now by this *». n y e indeed,Iso A'.cr'.Al c^afrcTciu w««t