■ '■ O-.VCHRIST IN THE CLOUDSCOMING TOJUDGEMENT. |■ '  r-» _ .|,A ISERMONr - * t+■ ■ :*i rqHFROM MATTHEW Xvi. 2/.Then Jhall he reward every man accordingto his Works.BY THE REV. MR. EBENEZER ERSKXNE,MINISTER AT STIRLING.wm. ymskSTIRLING:PRINTJED BY C. RANDAU*180*.CHRIST IN THE CLOUDSC O MING T OJ U D G E M E N T.Matthew xvi. 27. Then Jha.'l he reward everyman according io his works.THE text gives us an account of the dayof doom, which is the iaft day of affize,wherein every m.m fba!! be tried at the bar ofvGod’s juf.ice, and every man fhall then andthere, receive according to his works, whetherthey he good, or whether they be evil.i Ihall not trouble myfelf nor you with theterrors of this day, becaufe I have not time,but will proceed.it is nieft certain the day of judgement willcome ; and that it will be dreadful to all theWicked. But feeing thefe things rnuft be, whatfort ofperfons ought we to be in all mannerof convcrfation, always looking for the comingof Chrift, at whofe coming, the fun fhall bedarkened, and the moon (hall not give herright,' the ffars Ihafi fail from heaven the pow¬er?, of heaven fit all be <h..ken. the elements fhallfiuTTwith fer\rent heat! Who can hear all this,and not be wonderfully dilmayeu ! Oh ! whodares eat, drink, or ileep, or take a minute’sreft ! Be f'ure that day fhall come. O awake yedrunkards, and weep all ye drinkers of wine,becaufe of the new wine ; for it fit all be pulledfrom your mouth. Gird you; felvcs and lament,ye prielts ; bowl ye minifters of the altar, alas!t her lore zpd tenible dav of the Lord 15 at h»nd.TheCHRIST IN THE CLOUDS, &c. 3 ^The DOCTRINE is this,1 This is a gofpel truth, that Chrift, who* came into the world in the form of a fervant* ,‘ will one day come as a Judge, attended with.‘ his holy angels *And if this be fo, then frit for an ufe ofexhortation.1 ft, Let us all be warned, and while wehave time, provide for that day : Yet theweather is fair, we may frame an ark to laveus from the flood : Yet are - the angels at thegate of Sodom, and yet is Jonah in the ftreetsof Nineveh ; yet the prophet laments, crying,‘ O Judah ! how fhall I intreat thee ?’ Yea,the apoftle prays, nay, we pray in ChrifVsHead, ' that ye be reconciled unto God,’ But,here a quellion will arife, How wiil Chrilt ap¬pear ?I anfwer. He, who as a man once appear¬ed to be judged, wiil then appear to judge allmankind. Confider this, ye that are going tothe bar ; what a dreadful fight will this beto the fait; Lis Jews, llubborn Gentiles, andv.icked Chriltians, when every eye Ihall feehim, and they alfo that pierced him ? This isthe man fhati they fay. that was crucified forus and again crucified by us. Why, alas 1 jevery fin is a crofs. and every oath is a fpear, jand when that day is come, you mult beholdthe man. who thus you do crucify by youtdaily fin, lure this will be a fearful fight. |Where is the bloody fwearer, that can tearhis wounds, heart and blood ? At that day allihd'e woids will appear, the heart be Yifible,4. CHRIST .IN THE CLOUDSand the body, and the blood be fenfib'e ofgood and evil, then (ball the fearful voice pro¬ceed from his throne : Where is the bloodthou haft Spilled \ Here is the woful and ter¬rible Judgement, when thou that art the mur¬derer, fhall fee the fl^in Man be thy Judge!What favours canft thou think to expeft at hishand, whom thou had fo vilely and treache-rouflv ufed by thy daily fins : Be fare the Sonof Man will come as it is written, 4 But woe* unto that man by whom the Son of Man is* betrayed ; it had been better for that man* he had never been born,’ Mat. xxvi. 24.As Chrift lhall appear in the form of a man,fo this Man fliall appear in a glorious form.Oh ! flnner, look about you, the Judge iscoming : 4 A fire devours before him, and be-4 hind him a flame burnson every fide, thepeople tremble, and all faces fhai! gather black-nefs. Here is a change indeed ! he that wasat the bar, now fits on the throne, and thatfor ever ami ever Then Chrift' flood as alamb before Pilate, now Pilate hands as a ma-kfaccor before Chrift, 44 He that was made the44 footflool of his tfu Tuies. muff now judge till44 he has made his enemies his footflool.55Where fhail they run, and how lb all they feekthe clefts of the rocks and hollow places ? Theglorv of his Majejty will kindle a flame, whilethe heaven and the earth fhail dee away fromthe prefence of the powerful judge.But if here be the Judge, where is theguard ? Behold him coming from above withgreat power and glory ! Would you know his•* habit!COMING TO JUDGEMENT. 3.habit ! He is indeed clothed with Majefty.Would you know his attendance ? They arean hoft of holy angels ; nay, yet a much long¬er train, even the fouls of the-'i.tints, defcend*mg from their imperial feats, and attendingthe Lamb with great glory Never was thereany judge, Lord of fuch a circuit: His fcot-ftpol is the clouds, his feet is the rainbow, hisjudges are faints, his officers, angels and arch¬angels i'he trumpet prod tims a irlence, whilea juft fentenee cometh from his mouth uponall the world Thus you fee the affize begun :‘ I beheld till the thrones were caft down, faith‘ the Prophet, and the Ancient of Days did‘ fit, whofe garments were white as fnpw, and‘ the hair ot liis head like pure wool : his‘ throne was like the fiery flame, and thewheels as burning fire/ Dan. vii. 9.This is the juuge, whofe coming is fo fear¬ful, uffiered in by a fiery cloud, and apparel¬ed in a fnowy white, carried in his circuit on| burning wheels, and attended with thoufands| of thoulands, O ye Jews! behold the man^ whom before ye crucified as a inalefa&or ; be¬hold him on his throne, whom you faid, hisdifciples had flolen away by night out of hisgrave, Mat xxviii. 12. Behold him inhis ma-jefty ; liim upon whom you would not look inhis humiiiiy. This is he, at whofe appearancethe kindreds of the earth fhouki mourn. Such1 a ffiout of fury follows the fight of his Maje-fly, tliat the vaults fhall echo, the hills re¬found, the earth fhall (hake, the heavens ffiallpafs away, and be turned to ccnfufion, Then1 " ffiall6 CHRIST IN THE CLOUDSlhall the kicked mourn, then fhall they weepand wail, yet their tears lhall not lerve theirturn *, their fins part betray them, their flumecondemns them ; and their torments to comeconfound them : Thus fhali the wicked bewailtheir miferable, haplefs, unfortunate birth, andcurbed end. O fearful Judge! tenible as anarmy with banners : The Kings of the earthfhall be aftonifhed, and every eye {hall fee thisJudge and tremble at his fight. Lo, but con¬ceive the guilty prifoner come to his trial: .Will not the red robes of this Judge make hisheart bleed, for his blood fhed : Thus-have Ifhewed you how Chriit will appear in a glc-rious manner.ift, Think now O finner ! What fliall be thyteward when thou (halt meet'this Judge ? Theadulterer, for a while, may flatter beauty, fwear-ers grace their words with oaths, the drunk-,ards kifs their cups, and thank their bodilyhealth till they drink their fouls to ruin : But (let them remember, ‘ Tor all thefe things God jwill bring them into judgement A fad com- |fort in the end. How fhall the adulterer fa- Itisiy his lufl, when he lies on a bed of flames i |The fwearer fhall have enough of wounds andblood, when the devil fhall torture his body, Iand rack his foul in hell. The drunkard fhall jhave plenty of his cups when Raiding leadIhall be poured down his throat, and his breathdraw flames of fire inflead of air. As is thy-ffin, fo is thy punifhment: This Judge will give ;juft meafure in the balance of his indignation band wrath.COMING TO JUDGEMENT. 7 tFor comfort to all who are the Judge’s fa-vourites, Now is the day it ye are God’s fer-vants) that Satan tliall be trodden ander yourfeet, and you, with your M a tier. Chrift, thallbe carried into the Iloly of holies. You mayremember how ail the men of " God, in theirgreatett anguith here below, have fetched com-iort from the eyes of faith, it was at this moun¬tain Job rejoiced, being catl on the dung-hill,that his Redeemer lived ; and that he thouidfee him at the Uif day Hand on the earth , folikewhe the Evangel ill John longed and cried,‘ Come Lord Jtrius come quickly/ Rev. xxii.20. 1 Now little children abide in him, that' when he thall appear, we may have confi-‘ dence_ and not be atliamed at his coming.* And this is the promiie that he hath pro-‘ miLd us even eternal life/ 1 John ii. 28, 25.But I proceed,The perions to be" j ulged, are a world ofnmn. good and bad, ekxt and reprobate.Fird, 1 here is a futnmons, and this veryman rnuft hear, and this fhall be the voice ofthe Lit trumpet, ‘ Arife ye dead, and come‘ to judgement!’ O wuiat a fearful and terri¬ble voice will this be to ail the wicked ! Howwill they tremble at his Voice which makes theearth to tremble J Even at this voice the gravesof the dead fhall be opened, and eveiy foulre-united to his own body : the dark pit of hellihall be fhaken, when the dreadful foul fhailleave its place of terror, and once more re¬enter into its flinking carrion, to receive agreater condemnation, John v, 28, 29. Thevoice& CHRIST IN THE CLOUDSvoice of Chrifl: is a powerful and ftrong voice,c The dead (hall hear his voice, and they /hall6 come forth, they that have done good unto* the refurreflion of life, and they that have‘ done evil to the refurredlion of condemna-4 tion.*Thus much for the fummons, you hear itgiven, and every man mufl: appear : Death muffnow give hack all that, he hath taken from theworld. What a ghaftly and ihocking fight fhallthis be, to fee all the graves open, and .to feedead men arife out of their graves, and theScattered flying on the wings of the v/ind, tiUthey meet together in one body, Ezek. xxxvii.6. 6 The dry bones fliall live.* Behold, thepowder of God Almighty, out of the grave aridthe duff of the eartbu from thefe chambers ofdeath and darknefs fhali raife the bodies of theburied Rev. xx. 12, 13. ‘I faw the dead 1 faith* St. John) finall and great, Hand before God,‘ and the fea gave up the dead which were in‘ It; and death and hell delivered up the dead* that were in them, and they were judged eve-* ry man according to his works.’ He that faid‘ to corruption thou art my father, and to tne.‘ wxrm thon art my filter and mother,’ faidalfo, * I know that my Redeemer liveth. andc mine eyes fhall behold him.’ O ! good God,how wonderful is thy power, Joel. iii. ri, 12.4 Aflemble yourfelves and come, all ye heathen,‘ to the valley of Jcholhaphat, for there will I6 ft to judge the heathen all round about.'Thus have ye an account of the dead beingraifed j they are all brought together, and nowweCOMING TO JUDGEMENT. owe muft put them afunder, the llieep fhall beput upon the right hand, and the goats on the' left And new fee the parties thus fummciieci,raifed, gathered, and fet apart. Is. not herea world of men to'be judged all in .one day :6 All tongues, all nations and people of the earthihall appear in one day : We fhall then beholdeach fon of Adam, and Adam fhali then fee alli his pofterity, Confuler this, ye that are highI and low, rich and poor, one with another,'‘ for with God there is no refpeft of perfons ’[Hark, Obegger! petitions are out of date, yetthou needeft not tear, for thou (halt have je/-tice done thee this day : All caufes flrall be! heard, and tliou, tho’ ever fo poor, and evenr-tieipifed in the world, muit with the reft re-| ceive thy fentence. Hark, O farmer ! nowI-are the lives and leafes together finilhed, thisday is the new harveft of the Judge, who ga¬thers in his wheat, and burns up his chaff withfire unquenchable : No bribes, prayers norf tears; but as thou haft done, fo thou art fen-! tenced. Hark, O landlord ! where is thy pur«-| chafe to thee and thy heirs for ever ? Tins day| makes an end of all, and unhappy were thy; foul, if thou hadft not better land than a bar-| ren rock to cover and fhelter thee from thej prefence of thy Judge. Hark, O Captain! howt vain is the hope of man to be faved by a mu!titude of an hoft. Thou haft commanded allJ the armies of the earth and hell, yet canft thouj not refill the power of heaven. Hark, thei trumpet founds, and the alarm fummons tbe^.,(thou muff appear: All muff appear, the beg..id CHRIST IN THE CLOUDSgar, the farmer, the captain, the prince andthe greateft potentates of ihe world ! Nay, allfhall receive their reward according to theirdefertr. /sdJyT This is for terror to the wicked ! everyman tnufl appear ; O ! that every nun wouldbut think of it. Would you know the manthat fhaii on this day be blefTed ? !t is he thatthinks on this day and prepares for it. O then,I befeech you, meditate every day, that youand every man mull one day appear before the -judge of the quick and dead, and receive ac¬cording to your works.And now, having-brought the prifoners to 1their trial, I muft tell you what this trial multbe; for your works, faith juflifks bur it is byworks we are judged. Mi flake me not, hefhall b; judged according to his works, as be¬ing the bell witnefs of idj inward righteoufntf’s.But the better to Acquaint you with this tiial,we come to confider,1 ft, How all mens’ works fhall be manifeiledto us.2 dly. How all mens’ worjts will be examin¬ed by God.Firfl, Of the examination of every man’sworks. Rev. xx. 12, ‘ I faw the dead, final!* and great vfaith St. John 4 (land before God ;* and the books were opened ; and another< book was opened, which was the book of* life ; and the dead were judged out of thefe* things which were written in the books,* according to their works.’ Remember this,G forgetful funner, you may commit fin aftert1COMING TO JUDGEMENT. itfm, and multiply your fins ; but be fure Godkeeps a jud account, and none of yopr fms,tho* ever fo fee ret?, (hail be forgotten. There isa book of God’s memory* it is called a bookof remembrance, Mai. hi 16. ‘ A book of‘ remembrance was written before God, for4 them that feared the Loid and called upon* his name./ This is that which manifefts allfecrets: This is that which reveals all doings,•whether good or evil. In thele records areiound at large, Abel’s fac.rifi.ce, and Cain’s mur¬der. Abfalom’s rebellion, -and David’s devo¬tion, the Jews’ cruelty, and the prophets’ in¬nocent’/. Nothing ihall be hid when this bookis opened, for all may run and read it, 4 Gcd4 will bring every work into judgement,, with4 every fecret thing, whether it be good, or4 whether it be evil/ F.cclef xii. 4. Wail, yewicked and tremble in aftonilhment. Now'your clofet fins muft be difclofed, and your pri¬vate faults laid open.Imprimis, For adultery, envy, blafphemy,drunkenefs, oaths, violence, murder, fabbath-breaking, lying, and every other fm from thebeginning to the end, from your birth to yourdeath, the total fum is eternal death and dam-naton. But there is another book, that fiialigive a more fearful evidence than the former,that is fecretary in the foul of man : No mancan commit a fin, but the foul that is privy tothe fatt will write it in his book : What a wo-,iul cafe will thy peer heart be then in ? Whara ftrong terror of trembling rnufl it then HandpoJTelt with, when this bock fluil be openedti CHRIST IN THE CLOUDSand thy fins revealed ? Vhis book is now per-haps fhut up and Laird ? But in the day ofjudgment it fhall be opened, and what will bethe evidence that will be brought in ? Thereis a private feflion to be held in the bread; ofevery finner, the memory is the record, truthis the law, damnation is the judgement, hell isthe prilon, devils the jailors, and ^confcienceboth the witnefs and the judge to }.*Ls fentenceupon thee. What hopes can he have at the ge¬neral afilze, vvhofe confcience hath condemn¬ed him before he appears : Confider this, Othou impenitent finner !Let yet there is another book we read of,andi that is the book ofiife, wherein is writtenall the names of God’s elc£f, irom the begin¬ning of the world unro the end thereof Thisis the precious book of heaven, y/herein if webe regidered, not all the powers of darknefs,death or devils,' can bolt us out again. There¬fore, to make feme ufeful applications.1. Confider now, O finner ! what books oneday muff be fet before thee. The time willcome, when every word of thy mouth, everyglance of thy eye, every moment of thy time,every fermon thou haft heard, every thing thouhaft left undone, all (hall be feen, and laid ri¬pen before men, angels and devils’, thou {haltthen and there, be horribly and everlaftiuglyafnamed. Never go about then to commit fin,tho’ ever fo fecretiy, tho’ at midnight, and allthe doors locked about thee, for at this greatftay it fhali be brought to light.2. As you intend the good of your fouls, a-mendCOMING TO JUDGEMENT. *3mend your lives, call yourfelves to an accountwhile it is called to-day, fearch and examineall your thoughts, words, and deeds : proftrate1 yourfelves before God, with broken and bleed¬ing aflfe&tons. pray that your name may bewritten in the book of life, and if you do fo,fGod is not unrighteous to forget your labourof love, and ail your good works : for at thatgreat day, the book fhall be opened, our worksuanifefteJ, and as we have done, fo we mullI.e rewarded ; for then fhall he reward everyBut a little topan according to his works,recai ourfelves.The prifoners are tried, the verdift broughta, the indictments are found, and the Judge|ow fits upon life and death, even ready withpnkling eyes to pronounce the fentence. Thelord grant, .that when this day comes, the fen-; nee may be for us, and ave be faved, to ourperlafting comfort. Oh 1 now hold up your1; ads, all ye faints of the mofl'high God, forI is fhall be a bleffed day for you, for thenall ye hear the Tweet heavenly voice of Chrift,nng, ‘ Come ye blefTed of my Father, in-erit the kingdom prepared for youd fanot txprefs What joy it wiil be to the righ-us whenthey fiird! hew Citrid fay, “ Come?e bleffed fouls who have been bathed ine pen ting tears.” Here is a fentence able toive the dead, much more the afflicted. Are.1 ferrowing for your fms, leavp it a while,meditate with me on this enfuing melody,k ! yondtr is the choir of angels foundingte Judge, while he is pronouncing the fen-• fence.14 CHRIST IN THE CLOUDSfence. Now is the day of your coronation*now dial! ye be made pcrfe&iy happy, and ihut Ifor ever.' Come faith Chrift,, you that havefufftred for me, now you fhait have your re-1ward : you fnall have your fouls filled to the!brim with joy, fuch as is unfpeakabie, and ftillSof glory.But I muft return to the left hand, and ftrewlanother crew prepared for another fentence.|And Oh ! what a terrible fen.tence will that be.W'hich will make all ears glow and tingle. ‘ Hii‘ lips, faith the Prophet, are full of indignaj‘ tion and his tongue like a confuming fire,Ifa xxx. 28 What fire is fo hot as that fienfentence. Mat xxv. 41 ‘ Depart from me, yj‘ curled, into ever lulling fire, pi spared for thj‘ devil and his angtls1. They muft depart. This feems nothin!to the wicked now ; they are content to b|gone ; they hive much more delight in fillthan in God’s fervice But whether muft thrlgo ? From me. If from me, then from all nlmercies, my glory and my filvation. Bjwhither. O Lord, ftiall the curfed go. that djpart from thee? Into what haven (hail thjarrive ? What mailer fhaii they i’erve ? Itthought g great prndhmcat to be banilhed trrimV native foils ; What is ft then to be baniF.ed from the Almighty God ? But whither m|they go ? Into everlatting fire. O ! what'Is this? No feathers but fire, no friendsfuries, no eafe but fetters, no day-lightdarknefs, no docks to pal's away the time,endlefs eternity, fire eternal, always burr|COMING TO JUDGEMENT. 15Tmd never dyinpr- O who can endure everlafi-ing flame ! It fnali not be -quenched night norWay ; the fmoke thereof fliall go up for everland ev 'r The wicked fliall be crowded to-got her like bricks in a fiery furnace : But forfwhom was this fire prepared ? 4 For the devil* and his angels,’ Thefe mult be your compa¬nions. The hut fentence is now pronounced.What! Go, Who ? Ye curfed, into evcrlaftingfire, to crews of devils. O take heed that youllive in the fear of God led, that leaving iusfervice, he give you this regard, ‘ Depart1 from me yc curled, 3cc.’1 0. Conlider, then, v.hat fearful tremblingjyill ftize on their fouls that have their fen-|erice for eternal flames : Oh ! which way willthey turn ? How will they efcape the Almigh-ijy’s wrath ? I’o go backward is impoflible, tol;o forward is intolerable. Whole help willdiey crave ? God is their Judge, heaven theirJoe. the faints deride them, angels hate them;jpood Lord ? What a v/orld of mtferies hathfuzed on mifcrable fouls J heir executionersre devils, the dungeon, hell ; the earth fiendspen, and the furnace burning, ready to receivetern Ob ! How will thefe poor fords quaketd tremble? Every part of their body will:ar a pan in their doleful ditty : Eyes wetm-g. hands wringing, breads beating, beanslung, with voices crying. Now 6 man ofe earth, what fhall thy wealth avail thee ?ae drop.of water to cool thy tongue in the, . mes, is worth more than all the pleafuh s in.>1 world.Thusi6 CHRIST IN THE CLOUDS,' lc.Thus you have heard the fentence of ih»