NEW AND IMPROVED SERIESNo. 9.FAMILYA SELECTION OPRECEIPTS, ADVICES, AND DIRECTIONS,RELATIVE TOHOUSEKEEPING, CLEANING, &c.FROM THE MOST APPROVED SOURCES,GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSPrice One Penny.UBR4/?CONTENTS- PAGH.The Choice of a House,.... 3-Furnishings,  3Tables, Chairs, &e.,  4Earthenware and China,... 4Plate,    4Grates,  5Gilding,  5Housekeeping & Cleaning, 5Servants,   6Wooden Floors,  GCarpets,   7Oilcloths,    7Marble Hearths and Chim¬ney-pieces,   7Walls of Houses,  7Walls of Rooms,  8Paper-hanging,  8Picture-frames,........8Ivory, ....v   8Brass Initial Work,  8Windows and Looking-Glasses,  9Brass and Copper,  9Grates and Stoves,....  9Kitchen Vessels, 10Knives 10i Lamp Glasses, 10Furniture, 10Varnishing 12Bottles, 12Plate, 12Flannel or Woollen Articles,Silks, ....13Bed Feathers,   ,....13rifiR'Lace 13Scarlet Cloth, 13Clear Starching, 14Stains,     14Ink Marksjor Iron Moulds, 14Paint or CTrease Spots, 14To Extract Grease fromSilk, 14To Remove a Tight Stopper,15Economical Fuel, 15To Light a Fire, 15Smoky Chimney?,    1GTo Purify Water, 19To Filter Water, 19"'Vermix, 20Rats and Mice 20Bugs, 20Fleas, ., ,..,..21Lice, 21Beetles, Cockroaches, &c., 21Flies, 21-Moths, 21Slugs, 22Domestic Manufactures, ..22Blacking for Shoes, 22,Blacking-Balls, 22Blacking for Harness, 22Cement, 23Paste,  23Waterproof Shoes, 231Ink, 24Bottle Wax, 24Potato Starch, 24Potash, ...v..,.i.  24ME FAMILY RECEIPT BOOKTHE CHOICE OF A HOUSE.There fire several important matters to be taken into con>sideration in making choice of a house. In the first place,take care that it is not damp. Dampness may arise frommany causes, but imperfect drainage, ami close contact of thefloors with the ground, are the principal. When a house is dampin any part, by all means avoid it, for it may produce the mostpernicious effects on the health of your family. Secondly,see that the house has a free open exposure for fresh air, and,if all other circumstances suit, prefer that which has an ex¬posure to the south, for you will then have the beneficialinfluence of the sun’s rays. Thirdly, ascertain if there be aplentiful supply of good water in the premises, and if therebe proper means at hand for drying and bleaching clothes.Fourthly, learn whether the vents go well, and do not smoke.There are other inquiries you should also make, such as free¬dom from vermin, &c., but these are left to your own judg¬ment.Fuknishings.When about to furnish a house, take care to set out on aright principle in the selection of articles. Neatness, and apleasing effect to the eye, require that there should be a har¬mony of colours, and a similarity of style in the main articlesof furniture. Therefore, you must exercise a little taste andjudgment in your first selections, if you wish to avoid com¬mitting a blunder which will cost you much subsequentannoyance. For example, let the tints of the carpet, of thepaper or paint of the walls, and of the window curtains, boall in harmony in each room—that is, either possess a generalresemblance of colour, or various colours in pleasing contrastwith each other. Carpets being the most expensive articles, itis safest to buy them first, and then to let their colour lead thetone and style of hearthrugs, curtains, paper-hangings, &c. It isalso an economical plan to buy carpets of the same pattern4for several rooms, because, in the event of removal to ahouse with different sized apartments, a piece of one carpetmay be taken to eke out another.Tables, Chairs, &c.When ordering tables, chairs, and other wooden articles ofa fine quality, take care to specify that they must be of asolid fabric, and not veneered. Veneering is only tolerablein a few articles which are not to be subjected to much tearand wear; nevertheless, a practice has begun of veneeringarticles in daily use, such as chairs and tables, and conse¬quently they are soon destroyed. Examine closely the backand scat-frames of every mahogany chair, and reject it if it beveneered. In ordering sofas, you should also take care tobargain for genuine hair stuffing, for in many instances thestuffing is composed of what is technically called pob, or acomposition of tow, wool, and other kinds of rubbish.Earthenware and China.In purchasing your china and earthenware articles for thetable, take care to select sets which, in case of breakage, canat all times and in all places be easily matched. If you buytable ware of a peculiar or rare pattern, and afterwards breakseveral pieces, you may find it impossible to replace them.Thus a particular set of earthenware or china, however beau¬tiful and cheap, may ultimately prove a source of greatannoyance and no little expense.Plate.Whatever silver articles you buy, let them be of a genuinekind, or of sterling silver plate, which always keeps its value,however old and worn it may become. Avoid all plated goods,for the plating soon wears off,and then the article is valueless Ifyou cannot afford to purchase sterling silver plate, your mosteconomical plan, consistent with elegance of appearance, willbe to get a few articles of German silver. This is properlythe metal called nickel, and closely resembles sterling silverin texture and colour. In hardness and durability, it issuperior to sterling silver, and its price is only about a tenthof what genuine plate would cost. German silver is nowmanufactured to a large extent in England, and is made intospoons, forks, ladles, tea-pots, salvers, dish-covers, and allother articles for the table. The articles in Britannia metal,such ns tea-pots, coffee-pots, &c. should be of a durable fabric,and always kept well scoured.5Ghates.In choosing grates for your rooms, do not buy those which haveburnished steel fronts, as they require more care in cleaning,and are liable to rust during summer when not in use. Thebest and neatest, as well as the cheapest, grates, are thosewhich are made of cast iron, and of an ornamental pattern.Let the grates which you select be small or of moderate sizein the fire-place. Wide, open grates, by admitting cold airinto the chimney, are exceedingly liable to smoke.Gilding.Order all the gilding of your picture frames and otherarticles to be done in oil: it is infinitely more durable, audwill wash when soiled.HOUSEKEEPING AND CLEANING.Every good housewife should keep a regular and continuousaccount of her income and expenditure. This is a very essen¬tial part of domestic duty, and should not be neglected.When properly set about, there is little or no trouble in keep¬ing the household accounts; and for the guidance of younghousewives, with whom frugality should be an object, we begto suggest the following simple plan of keeping them:—Pro¬cure a small slate-book—that is, a little book composed ofthree slates, bound in a plain cover. This, which you writeupon with a slate pencil, is your day-book; it is always athand for you to scroll down any note of outlay, and will keepseveral days’ or a week’s accounts at a time. At any leisuremoment, you carry the entries of outlay from the slates to asmall ruled paper book, which is your ledger. One page ofthis is devoted to money received, and the opposite page tomoney paid out. By doing this regularly, and comparingthe entries of sums received with the entries of sums ex¬pended, so as to see that they square with each other, youwill find that you possess a complete record of family ex¬penses, satisfactory alike to yourself and to your husband,should he make any inquiry into the subject. The keepingof an account of receipts and disbursements, in this or anyother convenient manner, is calculated to check the tendencyto over-expenditure, or living beyond the means. Guardagainst the practice of buying on credit, and running up billswith tradesmen. If you can at all avoid taking credit, do so;for by paying for every article with ready money, you possesstwo decided advantages—you get every thing cheaper as youwant it, and yon can go anywhere to seek out the best markets.6Servants.The practice of hiring domestic servants for six monthsat once has partly given place to engagements of one month.It is better that the term hired for at the first should be short,and if both parties are pleased, a re-engagement can easily bemade afterwards. In this manner there is no vexatious obli¬gations to keep together, and a separation can always takeplace amicably. Many servants remain years in ,a place,though hired on the understanding that it is only from monthto month, or, what is the same thing, hired for no fixedperiod, but just so long ns both parties agree; and that, inthe event of any dissatisfaction, there shall be a week or amonth’s warning given to leave.A good mistress generally makes a good servant. Sheendeavours to seek out and'attach a good servant to herself.She effects this attachment and good-will by simply layingbefore the servant her line of duties, or what is expected ofher, and then leaving her to execute these duties in a regularmethodic manner. No servant likes to be interfered with inher work, or to be called away from one thing to do another;nevertheless, some mistresses.are not happy unless they aregoing in and out of the kitchen, or bustling up and down thehouse, ordering and counter-ordering or in some other wayworrying the servant out of all patience. We advise theyoung housewife to prescribe to her servants, in plain terms,the duties which she expects they will daily and regularlyexecute ; and if the servants arc unfit to perform them, it isbetter for both that there should be a separation. Wheretwo or more servants are engaged, the precise duties of eachshould bo expressly defined, m order to prevent disputes be¬tween them, and that the work of the house may be duly andproperly-performed.Wooden Floors,If kept in order by daily sweeping and other small attentions,may be effectually cleaned by washing them with warm waterand soap; but if spots of grease are to be removed, the spotsmust be previously taken out by fuller’s earth. Ink spotsmay be discharged with spirits of salt. The floors of bed¬rooms should be washed as seldom as possible. It is mostdangerous to the health of the person who occupies the bed¬room to wash or scour it, unless the weather be fine, to allowthe window to be opened for thoroughly drying the roombefore night. A damp mop may, when necessary, be passedlightly oyer the floor.7Carpets.Ordinary Kidderminster carpets can only be cleaned byshaking and beating; if cleaned by means of washing, theybecome so soft as to be speedily dirtied again, and their ap¬pearance is spoiled. Brussels carpets may be cleaned asfollows:—Take them up and shake and beat them, so as torender them perfectly free from dust. Have the floor thoroughlyscoured and dry, and nail the carpet firmly down upon it.Take a pailful of clean cold spring water, and put into it aboutthree gills of oxgall. Take another pail with clean coldwater only. Now, rub with a soft scrubbing brush some of theoxgall water on the carpet, which will raise a lather. When,a convenient sized portion is done, wash the lather off- with aclean linen cloth dipped in the clean water. Let this waterbe changed frequently. When all the lather has disappeared,rub the part with a clean dry cloth. After all is done, openthe window to allow the carpet to dry. A carpet treated inthis manner will be greatly refreshed in colour, particularlythe greens. In laying carpets, cover the floor beneath themwith large sheets of paper, to prevent dust from rising betweenthe boards. A carpet lasts longer by adopting this precaution.OlL-Cl.OTHS.Oil or painted cloths should be laid only on dry floors; ifthe floor be damp, the cloth will soon mildew and rot. Suchcloths, laid even in the driest situation, should be wetted as littleas possible. When to be cleaned, they should be wiped witha wet cloth, and rubbed gently till dry.Marble Hearths and Chimney PiecesMay be cleaned as follows:—Mix a gill of soap lees,half a gill of turpentine, and a bullock’s gall, and make theminto a paste with pipe-clay, which lay upon the marble, andlet it remain a day or two, then rub it off, and the stains willhave disappeared, unless they are of long standing, when thepaste must be again applied. Polished marble requires care¬ful treatment, as any acid will destroy the polish. In general,warm water and soap will be found the safest thing for clean¬ing chimney pieces.Walls of Houses.The outer surfaces of walls, formed of brick or sandstone,sometimes imbibe moisture from the atmosphere, and thisgives a dampness to the interior. If it be found unsuitable toplaster and white-wash the outside, the damp may be greatly8prevented by painting the walls with a single coat of oil-paint,which, by being light in colour, will give a neat and cleaneffect. /Walls of Booms.When walls of rooms or staircases are to be painted in oil,let the paint be of the best description. It is not unusual forinferior tradesmen to use whiting, instead of white lead, asa pigment; by this deception, the paint will afterwardsscarcely endure washing. Supposing, however, that the painthas been of the best kind, considerable care will be requiredin cleaning it. The safest and most simple plan is to take apail of hot water and put into it as much common yellow orsoft soap as will raise a lather or froth. Now wash the walls ,well with a flannel cloth dipped in this water ; then wash thissoapy water off with clean flannel and clean warm water.Dry with a clean linen cloth. Do all this equally, so as notto leave smears or parts better washed or wiped than others.Paper Hanging.Paper hanging should be first dusted and then cleaned bya stale loaf of bread, with the crumb surface cut smoothly,and gently rubbed, the dirty face of the bread being cut awayfrom time to time. The imitative marble-paper, highly var¬nished, may be washed with cold water and soap. PapierMache, now much used for mouldings and ornaments inrooms, may be cleaned with soap and water.Picture Frames.Picture frames of varnished or French-polished wood maybe washed with soap and warm water, and sponge or flannel.Frames which are gilt in the ordinary manner, or “ water-gilt,” cannot endure washing or rubbing; but if “ oil-gilt,”they may be washed with cold water and a soft brush.Ivory.Ivory may be restored to its original whiteness by cleaningit with a paste of burnt pumice-stone and water, and thenplacing it under glasses in the sun’s rays.Brass Initial Work.This is best cleaned as follows :—Mix tripoli and linseedoil, and dip into it a rubber of hat, with which polish thework. If the wood be ebony or rosewood, polish it with alittle finely-powdered elder-ashes; or make a paste of rotten-stone, a little starch, sweet oil, and oxalic acid, mixed with9water. The ornaments of a French clock are, however, bestcleaned with bread-crumb, carefully rubbed, so ns not to spoilthe wood work. Ormolu candlesticks, lamps, and branches,may be cleaned with soap and water. They will bear morecleaning than lacquered articles, which are spoiled by fre¬quent rubbing, or by acids, or strong alkalies.Windows and Looking-Glasses.Dip a moistened rag or flannel into indigo, fuller’s earth,ashes, or rotten-stone, in impalpable powder, with whichsmear the glass, and w ipe off with a dry soft cloth. Powder-blue or whiting, tied up in muslin, and dusted upon theglass, and cleaned off with chamois leather, also gives glass afine polish. The spots in the silvering of old looking-glassesare caused by damp at the back. Window-panes may bemade to resemble ground glass by daubing them with putty,or a brush with a little thin paste.Brass and Copper.Brass and copper are best cleaned with sweet oil and tri-poli, powdered bath-brick, rotten-stone, or red brick-dust, rubbed on with flannel and polished with leather. Astrong solution of oxalic acid in water gives brass a finecolour. Vitriol and spirits of salts soon make brass andcopper very bright, but they very soon tarnish, and conse¬quently require more frequent cleaning. A strong ley ofroche-alum and water will also improve brass.Grates and Stoves.Grates and stoves are cleaned with black lead mixed withturpentine, or with stale beer and yellow soap, and polished off.The finer lead is used dry in lump or powder. The bronzedwork of stoves should be only lightly brushed. Rottenstone,or fine emery and sweet oil, is used for the bright work ofstoves and polished fire-irons; the higher the latter arepolished, the less likely are they to rust. To prevent rust inarticles not often used, rub them with sweet oil, and dust overthem fine lime ; or with the following mixture :—To a quartof cold water, add half a pound of quicklime; let it standuntil the top is clear, when pour otf the liquid and stir up withit some olive oil, until it becomes of a pasty consistence, whenit should be rubbed on the metal articles to be preserved. Tofill cracks in stove backs, make a paste of wood ashes, salt,and water. To remove rust, mix tripoli, sulphur, and sweetoil, and clean the articles with it; or mix boiled soft soapwith emery No. 3, which will also discharge the fire marks10from bright bars. Steel work may also be kept from rust byvarnishing it with turpentine in which is dissolved a smallproportion of India rubber. Polished fire-irons may be bestpreserved from rust by being closely wrapped up in strongbrown paper.Kitchen Vessels.The crust on boilers and kettles, arising from the bardwater boiled in them, may be prevented by keeping in thevessel a marble, or a potato tied in a piece of linen. Tinplate vessels are cleanly and convenient, but unless dried afterwashing, will soon rust in holes. Iron coal-scoops are liableto rust from the damp of the coals. The tinning of coppersaucepans must be kept perfectly clean and dry, in which casethey may be used with safety. Copper pans, if put awaydamp, or a boiling-copper, if left wet, will become coated withpoisonous crust, or verdigris. Untinned copper or brass ves¬sels, even if scoured bright and clean, are always dangerous.If made dishes be allowed to cool and stand in copper vessels,the articles will become poisonous. In the year 1837, a ladyand her family, residing in Paris, were poisoned by partakingof a stew which had been allowed to stand and get cold in acopper pan. A German saucepan is best for boiling milk in.This is an iron saucepan, glazed with white earthenware in¬stead of being tinned, the glaze preventing its tendency toburn. A stewpan made like it is also preferable to a copperpan, since simple washing keeps it sweet and clean. A methodof glazing saucepans with earthenware has lately been theobject of a patent in England. Zinc sieves are more easily keptclean than those made of hair, will last longer, and not rust.Knives.Knives arc best cleaned by rubbing on a fiat board coveredwith leather, on which is put finely powdered brick-dust.Never put knives in hot water, for that loasens the handlesand spoils the temper of the steel. For simple cleaning afteruse, wipe them only with a damp and then with a dry cloth.Lamp Glasses.If the lamp glasses be ground, burnt spots upon them can¬not be removed, but they may be cleaned from the effects ofsmoke by washing with soap and water, and then rubbed witha dry cloth. The glasses should always be ground on theoutside.FlHtNITURE.Mahogany furniture is always best cleaned by continualrubbing; and no ordinary stuff that may be applied will com-11pensate the want of this requisite. Sonic furniture is whatis called “French polished;” but this French polish is anunguent possessed and applied only by cabinet-makers, andreadily to be had by housekeepers. In ordinary circumstances,therefore, the furniture must be well rubbed, and with someeasily procurable material. The following are the materialswe suggest:—Take a gill and a half of unboiled linseed oil,one gill of turpentine, and a tea-spOonful of pounded loafsugar. Shake all well together, and rub a portion on the fur¬niture with a piece of flannel, and polish with a linen cloth.An oil for darkening furniture may be made as follows;—Mix in one pint of linseed oil an ounce of powdered rose-pink,to which add one ounce of alkanct root, beaten in a metalmortar; let the mixture stand in a warm place for a fewdays, when the substances will have settled, and the oil, of adeep rich colour, may be poured off for use: or mix one ounceof alkanet root, four ounces of shell-lac varnish, two ouncesof turpentine, and the same quantity of scraped bees’ wax,with a pint of linseed oil; and when they have stood a week,the mixture will be ready for use.Furniture paste is made by scraping a quarter of a poundof bees’-wax into half a pint of turpentine, and letting it standto dissolve. This will keep the wood light. If, however, aquarter of a pint of linseed oil be added to the above, thecomposition will darken the wood. Another paste, usefulfor very light wood, is made as follows:—In a quart of hotwater dissolve six ounces of pearl-ash, add a quarter of apound of white wax, and simmer the whole for half an hourin a pipkin; take it off the fire, and when it has cooled,, thewax will float upon the surface, and should be worked in amortar, with a little hot water, into a soft paste. "With this,furniture may be highly polished, as may also marble chimney-pieces. It is necessary to mention, that furniture cleanedwuh paste has the disadvantage of receiving heat-marks morereadily than if polished with linseed-oil, which, however,requires more time and labour. In any case, the furnitureshould be cleansed from grease and stains before polishing isattempted; and this may be done by washing the wood withhot beer, or with soap and water. The safest way to heatfurniture paste or oil is to place the vessel containing it inanother holding boiling water upon the fire.A fine varnish for mahogany or other furniture may bethus made:—Put into a bottle two ounces of gum-sandrac,one ounce of shell-lac, half an ounce of mastic, half an ounceof gum-benjamin, one ounce of Venice turpentine, and a pintof spirits of wine. Colour red with dragon’s blood, or yellow12with saffron. Let it stand in a warm place until the gumsare dissolved, when strain it for use.Vaunishing.Before new furniture is varnished, it should have a coat ofboiled oil, (if wished to be darkened,) or linseed oil, and boleft a day or two to harden ; or a thin size, made from ising-glass or gum-tragacanth, dissolved in water, or very thinglue, is used; so that the pores of the wood be filled up, andboth varnish and time be thus saved. A good varnish maybe made by dissolving eight ounces of white wax and half anounce of yellow rosin in a pint of spirits of turpentine.Bottles.Cut a raw potato into small pieces, and put them in thebottle along with a table-spoonful of salt, and two table¬spoonfuls of water. Shake all well together in the bottletill every mark is removed, and rinse with clean water. Thiswill remove stains of wine, green marks of vegetation, andother discolourations. Hard crust in bottles may be cleanedoff by rinsing with water and small shot. Take care to washout all the shot before putting the bottles aside.Plate.Articles of plate, after being used, should be washed in hotwater, or, if stained, they should be boiled, and rinsed anddried before you attempt to clean them. They should becarefully handled, else they may receive deep scratches, whichare very difficult to remove. Besides, the object is notmerely to clean the plate, but to polish it, so that it mayappear almost as brilliant as when it was received newfrom the silversmith. For this purpose quicksilver was for¬merly much used in plate-powder, and it gave the silver greatlustre, which soon, however, disappeared, and the articlebecame tarnished and blackened. /The best plate-powder consists of dried and finely-siftedwhiting or chalk. The greater part of the whiting sold inthe shops is coarse trash, unfit for rubbing upon plate, andgreat care must be taken to procure the finest London whit¬ing, which will not scratch.Brushes, hard and soft, sponge, and wash leather, arerequisites for cleaning plate; if the powder be mixed withspirits of wine laid on with a sponge, and rubbed off withwash-leather, all tarnish will be removed. Salt stains (black¬ish spots) and sulphur marks from eggs are more difficult toremove. It is a good plan to boil a soft fine old cloth inwater with some prepared chalk dissolved in it, and to drv13the cloth, and use it for polishing. The soft brush is for thesame purpose, the hard brush being for chased work, edges,and crests, so that not a portion of dry powder may remainin them. Plate should in all cases be finished with a fine drywash-leather.Plated articles should be carefully wiped dry after washingthem, else they will rust or canker at the edges, where thesilver first wears off; and on this account, also, they shouldbe cleaned as rarely as possible. German silver may becleaned in the same manner as plate.Flannel on Woollen Articles.Wash them quickly with warm water, with soap. Wringand shake them well, and hang them up to dry. Do not letthem lie wet. The more quickly they are dried, the lesslikely are they to shrink.Silks.No silks look well after washing, however carefully it bedone, and should therefore never be resorted to but from ab¬solute necessity. We have seen it recommended to spongefaded silks with warm water and soap, then to rub them witha dry cloth on a flat board, after which to iron them on theinside with a smoothing iron. Sponging with spirits will alsoimprove old black silks. The ironing may be done on theright side, with thin paper spread over them to preventglazing.Bed Feathers.Put a manageable quantity into a pillow case or bag, whichwash with warm water and soap. Wring out the lather, andrinse them in clean water. Wring them as dry as possible,and hang them up to dry. Shake them frequently whiledrying. When quite dry, beat them to free them from anydust. They may be now taken from the bag, and are readyfor use.Lace.When lace has lost its colour, soap it well and put it incold water, just enough to cover it. If much discoloured,change the water at the end of twenty-four hours. Whensteeped sufficiently, rinse it out; starch it a little; pick it outas evenly as possible; roll it in a towel, and when nearly dry,iron it. All kinds of lace veils may be treated in a similarmanner.Scarlet Cloth.Pour boiling water upon bran, strain it, and, while hot,wash the cloth in it, and rinse with hot water. Soap should14not "be used. Purple clotli may be washed in hot water andpure ley. Saxony or dark print dresses should be washed intwo lathers, and in the second should be poured a little ox¬gall, which will freshen reds, blacks, and greens ; and a hand¬ful of salt added to the last rinsing-water will prevent thecolours running.Clear Starching.Clear starching is practised as follows:—Rinse the articlesin three waters, dry them, and dip them in a thick starch,previously strained through muslin; squeeze them, shake themgently, and again hang them up to dry- and when dry, dipthem twice or thrice in clear water, squeeze them, spreadthem on a linen cloth, roll them up in it, and let them lie anhour before ironing them. Some persons put sugar into thestarch, to prevent it sticking while ironing, and others stir thestarch with a candle to effect the same end; we object tothese practices as injurious to the article starched, or as verynauseous. The best plan to prevent sticking is to make thestarch well, and to have the irons quite clean and highlypolished.Stains.Stains of fruit or wine may be generally removed fromlinen or cotton cloth by placing the articles over the top of apail, and pouring boiling water through them till the marksdisappear.Ink Marks or Iron Moulds.Ink marks or iron moulds may be removed by placing aplate (a pewter one is the best) on the top of a basinful ofboiling water; then spread the articles on the plate; wet thespot, and rub it with a small quantity of the salts of lemon ;as the article dries, the stain will disappear. If this fail, re¬peat the operation. A small box of salts of lemon will befound very useful in a household.Paint or Grease Spots.Paint or grease spots may be removed from woollen clothby turpentine. Smith’s scouring drops is a liquid sold insmall bottles, which will also be found efficacious in removingoil or grease marks; it is more expensive than turpentine,but has a less offensive odour.To Ex,tract Grease from. Silk.As soon after the discovery of the injury as possible, holdthe part firmly, and with a clean soft white cloth, or au old15cambric handkerchief, rub the spot briskly, changing the por¬tions of the handkerchief frequently and in a minnte or twothe spot will disappear. On silks which fray easily, this planwill be unsuitable.To Remove a Tight Stopper.It frequently happens that the stopper of a glass bottle ordecanter, becomes fixed in its place so firmly, that the exer¬tion of force sufficient to withdraw it would endanger thevessel. In this case, if a cloth be wetted with hot water, andapplied to the neck of the bottle, the glass will expand, andthe neck will be enlarged, so as to allow the stopper to beeasily withdrawn.Ecoxomical Fuel.In places where coal is scarce and dear, a tolerably goodfuel may be made by mixing the culm or refuse dross of coalwith clay, and moistening the whole with water—masses inthe form of bricks or balls may be made, which, when dry,will burn with an intense heat. Where peat prevails, thatarticle may be easily charred by burning in a covered pit orstove; and this chan'ed peat will be found to give a greatheat when used in an open ftre. The Dutch make much useof their turf in this manner. Another economical fuel, easilyprocurable where there are woods of Scotch firs, consists offir cones or tops, which contain a great quantity of solidwoody matter in addition to the resinous, and are excellentlyadapted for domestic fires.To Light a Fire.To light a fire, clear the ashes from the grate, leaving afew cinders for a foundation, upon which put a piece of drycrumpled brown paper, and lay on a few small sticks crosswise,then some of larger size, and on them a few pieces of coal,and next the large cinders; and when the flames have caughtthe coal, add a backing of small coal and cinders. When thefire has become low, stir it together, but do not turn the largecinders; clear the front of the lower bar to admit air, aridpass the poker into the bottom of the fire, to clear it ofashes; and then with tongs put on a few large pieces ofcoal towards the front of the fire, but not on the upper,else the fire will smoke. Coals should not be thrown on,but put on gently with a scoop or shovel; and even thesmallest ashes may he burnt at the back of the fire, if they .becovered with small coal. The best and quickest mode of re¬storing a neglected fire is to stir out the ashes, and with thetongs to fill up the spaces between the bars with cinders. If16carefully done, it is surprising how soon this process will pro¬duce a glowing fire.Ashes and small cinders mixed with water into a mass, andput on the back of a fire with a few coals, burn well, so thatashes may thus be entirely burnt up. In stoves underboilers, this mixture is very useful, as it lasts long, with littleaddition.Smoky Chimneys.The cause of smokiness in chimneys are various; but all.re connected with the properties of air and heat, for thesmoke is only particles of culm ascending through the agencyof heated air. To make a chimney vent well, the column ofheated air from the fire must not be entangled with cold airfrom beneath nor retarded by cold air coming down thechimney. To effect these objects, the fire-place must not bemuch larger than the grate, and the chimney must be of acertain length and bent. The great leading cause of smoki¬ness is cold air somehow' or other mixing with the warm airabout the mouth or throat of the chinmey, and so causing asluggishness in the ascent, or no ascent at all. Therefore, thenearer the air is made to pass the fire on all sides, the morerarefied it will be; and the less vacancy there is in the chim¬ney-place, it will ascend with the greater rapidity. A propercontraction of the mouth of the chimney, at the same timeallowing the fire to be fed freely with air, will be found inmost instances to cure smoke. Of late, certain contrivancescalled dampers, by which the chimney throat can be narrowed,have been the means of effecting draughts, and so curingsmoke. It should be noted, that in contracting chimney-throats, the contraction should not be all at once, but at firstgradual, and then straight upw'ard, so as not to allow a volumeof cold air to lurk in a hollow above. A chimney being wideat bottom, and gradually narrowing towards the next storey,allows the coldish air to hang about the lower parts, by which,when a gust of wind comes, the smoke is driven back into theroom. This kind of smokiness is the most teasing of all theforms of chimney diseases. Every little puff of wind sends asmaller or larger quantity of smoke into the apartment, andoften when it is least expected. Perhaps this kind of smoki¬ness is not in all cases caused by wrong construction, but arisesfrom the situation of the house; and of this we shall imme¬diately say a few words.If a funnel of a chimney be made too narrow to afford aneasy passage to the top, the smoke will then naturally beforced into the room to find some other passage; this defect17is very common, and the remedy troublesome and difficult.The most effectual cure, if the situation will admit, is to builda small additional flue, and open a hole into it from the backof the chimney, near the level of the mantel-piece, slantingupwards in an easy direction; this supplemental flue must becarried to the top of the building to receive the surplus ofthe smoke, and will prove a certain cure. If the situationwill not allow of this expedient, the fire-place may be con¬tracted both in breadth and height, a smaller grate used, andthe chimney heightened at the top; which will oblige the airto pass close over the fire, and carry up the smoke with greaterrapidity, for the quicker the current, the less room it requires.Should the chimney still smoke, a blower, or front plate, toput on and take off at pleasure, will be of use. But itnone of these prescriptions answer, then something must bedone to improve the current of air towards the fire. Thisbrings us to a consideration of the want of ventilation in theroom.If the chimney and fire-place be faultless, and yet smoke,it is almost certain that there is a want of ventilation. Inordinary circumstances, as much air is admitted by chinks inwindows and doors as will feed a fire; but if the room berendered very close by closing as many chinks as possible,how is the fire to receive air? According to the plan on whichhouses are generally built, ventilation is left to be a matter ofchance. To ventilate an old house is therefore no easy task.The follow ing plans are worth considering, for they have beenfound to answer:—Contrive to bring a small tube from theexternal air, or from a staircase or lobby, to a point beneatlithe grate, so as to cause a free current of air to reach the fire.If the mouth of the tube below the grate be topped with acow'l, the ashes will be prevented from falling into it. Someyears ago, the rooms of a public office in Edinburgh werecompletely cured of smoke by this simple contrivance, afterall other means had failed. Another plan consists in perforat¬ing small holes in the cornice or roof, for the air to gain ad¬mission ; but, unfortunately, unless care be taken to preventcolds, the cure is apt to be worse than the disease.Cases are by no means uncommon of fire-places giving outa puff of smoke every time the door of the room is shut. Thocause of this kind of smokiness is the want of ventilation inthe room. In shutting the door, it pulls out a certain quan¬tity of air, which cannot be afforded to be lost, or it causessuch distraction of the current towards the fire, that the equi¬librium that carries up the smoke is destroyed, and a puffdownwards—in other words, a rush of air loaded with smoke18from the chimney—is the consequence. It will be remarked*that this smokiness occurs most frequently when the door ison the same side of the room as the fire-place. We shouldtherefore advise house-planners to avoid this bad arrange¬ment. If possible, let the door be on a different side fromthat in which the fire is placed. Most houses in which thechimneys go up the middle walls instead of the gables, have,the fault we mention. A remedy for this smokiness is to con¬tract the mouth of the chimney, and, if possible, heighten thestalk; for if the chimney be pretty long, the heated air as¬cending it goes with such a force that the outer heavy air can¬not get down, at least not to so great an extent as to cause apuff'when the door is shutting. In some cases, the cause ofthe disease will be found to be air rushing up behind the grate,if a register, and then coming down to supply the fire, the ac¬tion of the door disturbing the current. This is therefore anargument for always taking care to build register stoves quiteclose behind, not leaving the smallest crevice for air to stealup the chimney without first going through the fire.In erecting chimneys, it should be a rule to carry them upa good way in a perpendicular direction, before making a turn,by which means the heated air gains a force in its primary ver¬tical asCeht, which carries it over future difficulties. In wallsin which the fire-place of one storey is immediately below thefire-place above, it is impossible to get a perfect straight forany great length; therefore this must be left to the judgmentof the builder. It is also advantageous for all chimneys tohave a bend in them before reaching the top, and a garretchimney should have two bends. For want of attention to thistop bending, many cottage and small villa chimneys smoke.The use of bends is obvious. Strong, sudden, and accidentalgusts of wind sometimes enter, and beat into the top of thechimney; a turning or bend, therefore, will break the force ofthe wind, and prevent it repelling the heated air downwards.But if the chimney is straight, and the gust meet with no in¬terruption, it will stop the passage of the smoke for a while,aud of course force what rises from the fire immediately intothe chamber. It is to he observed that the farther the windgets down the funnel the greater strength will be required torepel it; therefore the nearer to the top the bend pr windingis, the better. Also, if there is a storm of wind, with heavyshowers of hail, snow, or rain, falling perpendicularly in greatdrops, the first bend or turning will, in part, stop theft' pro¬gress ; but if the funnel is perpendicular all the way down, thegreat drops of hail, snow, and rain, will fall freely to the bot¬tom, repelling the smoke into the room; and if the funnel is19foul, great quantities of soot will be driven down. These rea¬sons recommend a bend in some part of the funnel as abso¬lutely necessary.Ganet chimneys are more liable to smoke than any otherin the house, owing to the shortness Of the funnel: for whenthe composition of rarified air and smoke has made its wayI up a high funnel, it forms a strong column, and to repel it re¬quires a proportionably great fofce; but in a garret chimneythis strong column cannot be obtained ; therefore, what can¬not be had from nature must be aimed at by art. The faultin most garret chimneys is being carried up in a straight di¬rection from bottom to top in a slovenly manner, and withfunnels as large as any in the house; whereby the little in¬ternal rarefied air has the whole immediate pressure of theatmosphere to resist, which, in general, is too powerful for it.But a garret or cottage chimney carried up and executed in aproper manner, with due proportion in every part, accordingto the size of the room, and the funnel in an easy crooked di¬rection, will draw and be as clear from smoke as any other.To PumrY AVatek. ,To purify water, put into a hogshead of it a large table¬spoonful of powdered alum, stir it, and in a few hours the im¬purities will be sent to the bottom. A pailful of four gallonsmay be purified by a single tea-spoonful of alum. Freshly-burnt charcoal is also an excellent sweetener of water.To Filter Water.Put into an earthen vessel (such as sugar-bakers use to formthe loaves in, with a small hole at the bottom or pointed end)some pieces of sponge, and on them a sufficient number ofsmall clean peebles to quarter-fill the vessel. Hang this filterend downward, in a barrel with the head out, leaving a spaceof about two or three inches between the end of the filter andthe bottom of the barrel. The upper part of the filter shouldbe kept a little above the top of the barrel, which must alwaysbe kept full of water. The sediment of the water will remainat the bottom of the barrel, and the pure water will risethrough the sponge and pebbles to the vacant part of thefilter. It may be hung in a cistern, or water-butt if moreconvenient. The pebbles and sponge should be cleansed oc¬casionally.Another economical filter may be made by taking out thehead of a cask, setting it upright, and at a distance of aboutone-third from the bottom putting in a shelf or partitionpierced with small holes; this shelf being covered with20pebbles, upon which is a layer of fresh charcoal made frombones; and over this lay fine sand, to the depth of an inch,covered with another layer of pebbles ; and upon this shouldbe placed another shelf, pierced with holes, to prevent thepebbles, sand, and charcoal being disturbed by the waterwhich is poured or runs in at the top of the cask; and afterpassing through the filter, is drawn off by a crane placed afthe bottom of the cask.VERMIN.The best plan for preventing the attacks of vermin inhouses is to keep the house scrupulously clean; for where thereis cleanliness and ordinary precautions, no vermin will gener¬ate or exist.Rats and Mice.These might in some instances be completely preventedfrom encroaching in dwellings by giving a solid foundation tothe house, cutting off the approach by grating the drains, butespecially by filling up all open spaces beneath pavementsand in walls and partitions. Mice might be effectually keptout by only filling up the spaces behind skirting boards inrooms. These vacant spaces are invariably the habitations ofmice, and the first thing any person should do in entering intopossession of a domicile, is to cause all the spaces behind theskirting-boards and wainscoats to be filled with plaster. Wheremice and rats have gained a footing in a house, they shouldbe taken off by a cat or trap, and when one kind of trap fails,another may be tried. All schemes for poisoning them witharsenic or other ingredients are dangerous, and cannot be re¬commended.Bugs.These pests exist only in dirty houses. A carefui house¬wife or servant will soon completely destroy them. The surestmethod of destruction is to catch them individually when theyattack the person in bed. When their bite is felt, instantlyrise and light a candle and capture them. This may betroublesome, but if there be not a great number, a few nightswill finish them. When there is a large number, and theyhave gained a lodgment in the timbers, take the bed in pieces,and fill in all the apertures and joints with a mixture of softsoap and Scotch snuff. A piece of wicker-work, called a bug-21trap, placed at the head of the bed, forms a receptacle forthem, and then they may be daily caught till no more areleft. Fumigations are very dangerous, and rarely effectual,therefore attempt no such project. Oil-painting a wall is ameans of excluding and destroying them.Fleas.There is no way of ridding a bed or house of these verminbut excessive cleanliness. Keep the floors well swept andwashed, and if you have a dog, comb and wash it frequently.Fleas are bred on the ground, or among dust.Lice.Lice are now almost unknown in England. Wherever theyare found, there certainly also is found dirtiness. Ignorantpeople imagine that these nauseous vermin breed spontane¬ously; this is a gross error. By cleanliness they are com¬pletely prevented ; and the more warm the climate, so is thenecessity for cleanliness greater.Beetles, Cockroaches, amd Crickets.These may be caught in traps. A simple trap for them isa glazed basin or pie-dish half-filled with sweetened beer ormilk, and to the edge of which a piece of wood is laid fromthe floor as a gangway. Do not attempt poisoning or fumi¬gation.Flies.It is difficult to rid a house of flies by any other plan thanby poisoning, and that is too dangerous to be recommended.A composition of milk, sugar, and pepper, will attract and killthem, and so will a decoction ofquasia; but both cause themto make offensive marks on the walls and furniture before theydie. Gilt frames and chandeliers should be shrouded in thinyellow gauze or paper, in situations where the flies are likelyto spoil them. Trees about a house form a harbour for flies,as well as dirt of all kinds. Cleanliness and airiness are thebest preventives.Moths.The best way to preserve furs or worsteds from moths is tosew them closely up in a bag of new unwashed linen ; if thisis not done, the next best is to take the articles frequently outand brush and air them. The odour of camphor, shavings ofRussia leather, lavender, &c., are much less efficacious thanthey are supposed to be. Kill every flying moth which yousee.22Slugs.Take a quantity of cabbage leaves, and cither put them intoa warm oven, or hold them before a fire till they are quitesoft; then rub them with unsalted butter, or any kind of fresh •dripping, and lay them in the places infested with slugs. Ina few hours the leaves will be found covered with snails andslugs, which may then be destroyed in anyway you think fit.DOMESTIC MANUFACTURES.The attempt to make all sorts of articles for domestic useis now far from economical, as the time and expense bestowedupon them are often of greater amount than what would buythe things ready from shops. We therefore confine our di¬rections to articles which may require to be manufactured infamilies at a great distance from towns, or for the families ofemigrants in remote settlements.Blacking for Shoes.■ There are many ways of making this article, the chief in¬gredients employed being ivory black, vinegar or sour beer,sugar, a little sweet oil, and oil of vitriol. A good blackingmay be made as follows:—Mix three ounces of ivory-black,two ounces of treacle, a table-spoonful of sweet oil, one ounceof vitriol, one ounce of gum-arabic dissolved in water, and apint of vinegar.Blacking-Balls.For blacking-balls mix one pound of ivory-black, one poundof lamp-back, a quarter of a pound of gum-arabic dissolved inwater, six ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of meltedglue, and a quart of water; and make into balls. A fineblacking for dress-shoes may be made by well beating twoeggs, and adding a table-spoonful of spirits of wine, a lump ofsugar, and ivory-black to thicken. This blacking may also beused for restoring the black leather seats and backs of chairs,ifec. In should be laid on aiid polished as other blacking, andthen left a day to harden.Blacking for Harness.Melt two ounces of mutton suet with six ounces of bees’-wax; add six ounces of sugar-candy, and two ounces of softsoap dissolved in water, and one ounce of indigo finely pow-I23(ifred; and when melted and well mixed, add a gill of tnrpen-tine. Lay it on the harness with a sponge, and polish oftwith a brush.Ckment.Various preparations are used for mending broken china,earthenware, and glass. The most successful are as follows:—Beat the white of an egg with quicklime, in impalpable powder,into a paste; to which is sometimes added a little whey, madeby mixing vinegar and milk. A little isinglass, dissolved inmastic varnish, is another cement. Nature supplies somecements ready to our hands—as the juice of garlic, and thewhite slime of large snails; and it has been stated in a re¬spectable scientific journal, that a broken flint has been joinedso effectually with this snail cement, that when dashed upona stone pavement, the flint broke elsewhere than at thecemented parts. In their anxiety to unite broken articles,persons generally defeat themselves by spreading the cementtoo thickly upon the edges of the article, where.as the leastpossible quantity should be used, so ns to bring the edges al¬most close together; and this maybe aided by heating thefragments to be joined.Paste.Paste is useful in a house for preparing walls, cupboards,boxes, labelling, &c. Dr. M'Culloch, of Edinburgh, employs“ paste made of flour in the usual way, but rather thick, witha proportion of brown sugar, and a small quantity of corrosivesublimate. The use of the sugar is to keep it flexible, so asto prevent it scaling off from smo.oth surfaces ; and that of thecorrosive sublimate—independent of preserving it from insects—is an effectual check against its fermentation. This saltdoes not, however, prevent the formation of mouldiness ; buta drop or two of oil of lavender, peppermint, or anise-seed, is acomplete security againgst this.Waterproof Stuff for Shoes.In winter, or during wet weather, shoes may be rendereddurable by applying to the soles and seams a composition madeof the following materials:—Half a pint of boiled linseed oil,two table-spoonfuls of turpentine, one ounce of bees’-wax, anda quarter of an ounce of Burgundy pitch. Melt the wholetogether, and apply with a brush before the fire. Bepeat theapplication till the soles will absorb no more. Neats’-foot oil,alone, will be found an excellent preservation of shoes in wetweather.24Ink.An excellent ink suitable for writing with steel pens, whichit does not corrode, may be made of the following articles:—Sixty grains of caustic soda, a pint of water, and as much In¬dian ink as you think fit for making a proper blackness.Bottle Wax.A good kind of bottle wax or cement may be cheaply madeas follows :—Put into an iron ladle half a pound of rosin, twoounces of bees’-wax, and when melted over the fire, stir inVenetian red, lamp-black, or other colouring; and applywhile hot. If kept for after use, melt with a candle as usualwhen applied.Potato-Starch.Wash and peel a gallon of good potatoes, grate them intoa pail of water, stir frequently, and then let them settle. Onthe following day the starch will be found at the bottom of thepail; when pour off the water, add fresh, stir as before, andlet it subside a second time; when pour off the water, anddry the sediment in the sun or a slow oven. An excellentstarch may also be made by setting in a cool place the waterin which rice has been boiled (though not in a cloth,) whichwill in twenty-four hours become a strong starch.Potashes.Settlers in the backwoods of America, or other woodyregions, have an opportunity of manufacturing potash, anarticle of great u»e and considerable value. A vast quantityof this substance is annually made in Canada, and exportedto Great Britain. Potashes are made from the ashes of burnttrees. In burning timber to clear the land, the ashes are care¬fully preserved, and put in barrels, or other vessels with holesin the bottom; and water being poured over them, a liquid oralkali is run off; this ley being boiled in large boilers, thewatery particles evaporate, and leave what is called blacksalts, a sort of residuum, which, when heated to a high degree,becomes fused, and finally, when cool, assumes the characterof potash.By these potashes the Canadians make their own soap; theley of a barrel of ashes, boiled along with ten pounds of tal¬low, till it is of a proper consistenoe, produces about fortypounds of very good soft soap. It is related, that when theland has been covered with heavy timber of a hard nature,there is such a quantity of ashes produced that their value willpay for clearing the land.