AYORK DIALOGUEBETWEENNED AND HARRY:ED giving HARRY an Account of:his Courtftiip and Marriage State,TO WHICH ARE ADDED,THREE EXCELLENTNEW SONGS.GLASGOW,cted by J. & M. PtOBERTSON, Saltmarket.j8oi.YORK DIALOGUEBETWEENNED AND HARRY.Ned gives Harry an account of his Court]}},v and Marriage State,Ned. T- T ON ES F Harry! I am glaJTI to fee you! You’re wecome to York: You’re a great ftrangecWhen came you to town.Harry. I came to" your town lai.night, Ned, and am glad to fee yotI enquir’d after you of my landlorcand he told me, you was well and habeen married two or three years, jwilh you much happinefs ; pray, hoid’ye like matrimony ?Ned. In good faith Harry, (fcrufcbing his ihoulderr) but fo, lb j ho«ever, 1 will not difcourage you.Harry. But don’t you remembe?Ned, that you and I made an agreemerit, that which of us two was married lirft, fhould tell one another of thway* of courtlhip, and how he lik’dand a married Rate.A YORK DIALOGUE. 3Ned. ’Tis true, we did fo, Harry jjut now I have not time to tell you,ubr it will take me more than two orihree hours to give you a full acoeunt)f both parts.Harry. What! are you in hade then,>Jed ? *Tis a great while fince I haveeen you, and fhan’t we Iiave one muglogether ?Ned. ’Faith Harry, I’m loath to de-|iy you ; but if 1 go with you, I in«il:end home to my wife, to let her knowIvhere I am.Harry. So you may Ned, and telltsier, you are with an old friend that;j vould be glad to fee her.Ned. Not a word of that Harry; forf I go with you and flay any time,'jye Ihall have her company withoutending for her.Harry. Say you fo. Come then, lets goto Peter Winn’s.- Well, Ned,am glad to fee thee ?—Ring the bell.—Dick, bring us a pint of your beltde. Come Ngd, fit down and letne hear a little of your courtfhip, andnow long it was before you got yourife into the mind to marry ; for if Ipeak to any of the female fex, they’re4 A YORK DIALOGUE,ib devilifh coy, I can’t tell what tomake of them.Ned. That’s very true, they are fo,Harry ; for vyhen I fpoke to my wifefirft, fhe was fo very coy and huffilh,and told me fiie did not know what Imeant; flie was not for marrying; Iheliv’d very well as Ihe was; and if {hefhould marry, flic muft then be con¬fin’d to the humours of a hufband.Harry. Well, but how then, Ned ?,tel! me allNed. Faith, I have not time nowHarry -; for i muft go home..Harry. Come my fervice t’ye Ned,I will have you be as good as yourpromife.Ned. Then if I muft, I will ftay alittle longer, and tell you.——I told !her ! had as good a trade as any of myneighbours, and 1 hop’d to keep her 1as well.—Upon thefc words ftie wascalled away.Harry. How then Ned ?Ned. Faith I went home, but could Inot get her out of my mind. The next ;day I went again to fee her, and took :her by the hand; but fire pull’d it a-way with fcorn, faying, Fray don’tA YORK DIALOGUE. 5banter me, for I know you men loveto tantalize us lilly women. Upon myfaith, madam, fakl 1, l am in goodearned, for a man of my trade mudhave both journeymen and premises,therefore l cannot well be without awife, and you are the only perlbn that'l always fancied would make me hap¬py. Then l took her by the hand a-gain, and with much ado got a kifs ofher. Pray be quiet, fakl ihe, L—d 1what do you mean? you are fo trou-blefome! and look’d very angry, andfo left me.Harry. Very well, Ned, go on, thisis vadly pleafant.Ned. That very kifs made me thinkof her, and love her more than ever tdid ; for, after that kifs, I was alwayswilfeing myfelf in her company, andwas never at red. The Sunday after, Ifaw her in the minder, at prayers, andthought every thing handfome andpretty about her: her face, her eyes,her mouth, her bread, her iliape. 1watch’d her coming out of the choir,and walk’d with her in the minder, andaik’d her if (he would pleafe to take awalk into the groves, but die told me6 a york Dialogue.flie was engag’d. Relieve me, Harry,I was fo daft with that anfvver, thatmy heart was fit to break with fearthat fhe fliould love another betterthan myfelf; however, I went homewith her, and at the door dehr’d thatI might fpeak a word or two with her.She told me fhe was engag’d, and Ineed not trouble myfelf any further.Madam, faid I, the firft time thatever I faw you, I was ftruck with thethought that yoy. was the woman thatwas to make me a happy wife. Youmen, faid fhe, fay fo to all the womenyou meet with. Truly, madam, faidI, what 1 fay is really true, from thebottom of my heart, and 1 hope youwill find it fo. You men always pro4inife fair, faid fhe, before you are mar-|ried; but when that job is over, youtfeldom ormever perform your promife.Pray try me, madam, faid 1, for uponmy word you fhall find me always asgood as 1 have laid, by this kifs.— -Fie, faid fhe, I fwear I will never comeinto your company any more, if you pwill not let me Rand quietly by you.pThen Talked her again the favour to|take a walk> for it was a fine evening*A YORK DIALOGUE. 7;and would do her a great deal of good,IShe told me at laft Hie was truly tomeet two 3r three of her acquaintanceat feven o’clock, in the groves, juft totake a turn or two, and fo come homeagain ; fo bid me good-night.Harry. Well, Necf, I hope youwent to the groves to meet her, didyou not ?* Ned. Yes, you may be allured Idid ; and within a quarter of an hourlafter 1 was there, my miftrefs cnme;but her friends were not witli her, asgood luck would have.it. *Harry. Was not you glad of that,Ned; tho’ i dare fwear, Ihe knew ofno body to meet her at that time?Ned. Yes, faith I was very glad oflit; and when we had taken a turn or; two, I afked her if Ihe would go to the: cheefe-cake houfe, and with much ado11 got her confent to go.Harry. Well, Ned, what difcourfe! had you there ?Ned. Why,.faith we were very mer-,| ry; I called for fome. cheefe-cakes,i and a bottle of cyder, and at laft be-,.J gan to alk her about marrj ing me.She told me Ihe heard 1 had a good3 A YORK DIALOGUE,trade, and did mind it now very wel lbut how I would mind it, if ihe fhoullconfent to marry me was her fear,told her Ihe need never fear that, fcjmarrying of her would be the onlmeans to make me mind my bufinefif poflible, more than I have done,do affure you Harry, that the fervants which we call chamber-maidsRand as much upon their honour, afome of them will call it, in courtingas their miftrefs, nay, and more.Harry. Why, Ned? I have cbftrved that all along you have called hemadam, whenever you named herbut L hope it is not a cuftom here aYork, to call your chambef-madis maj;dam at every word.Ned. Yes, faith we do, and the;tfeemfelves call one another fo, or ithere be five or fix of them together athe parting with one another, yoifhall hear them take their leave of on ifanother with, Madam, good night t«you, fays onej Madam, your fervantfays another ; Pray, my fervice to youknow- who ’Tis very true Harry.Harry. Plow could you ever expedljNed, that fuch a one would make you}A YORK DIALOGUE, 91 a good wife, that minded nothing but{ her pride.Ned. Well, Harry, but you air mif-1 taken, foe fome of them do make veryigood wives, and are very ,good houfey/ives too.Harry. How long were you a court-llng her, before ihe gave confent to!marry you ?Ned Why, about a year or merre,land all that while I very little didmind myfelf for minding of her, for! I was fain to watch her as a cat watch-eth a moufe for fear of a rival. At laftI told her I hoped now (he would con¬fent to marry me, if not to tell me fo,for it was a great lofs to me to lofe mytime fo day after day. Upon thefe•iwords, fhe told me fhe thought I wasin earneft, but fhe did not niuch likethe houfe l liv’d in. I told her it wasta very pretty houfe; and 1 fhould be;glad to fee her in it. Upon this fhe‘fmiled, and gave me her confent.Harry. Was you afk’d in the church,)Ned, or had you a licence ?j Ned. 1 went on purpofe to afk herfthat queflion, and fhe told me fhe wasa gentlewoman born, and did not care*© A YORK DIALOGUE.•to be a/k’d in the church j for, fhelaid, there was no body afkM in thechurch but caok-maids and kitchen-maids j fb it cofl me about twentyIhiliings in a licence. Well, marriedwe were, and very merry were we thatday $ and I proteft, Harry, I thoughtevery hour two till bed-time, (he look’d• fo well; and at laft the hour came,,and to bed we were got. But Harry—» Harry. Well, what Ned, doft thouthink that I do not know what it is to jlie with a woman ?Ned. \ es, faith I believe you do, I!do not think you have liv’d to thisage, and does not know that.Harry. But now, Ned, in the fecondplace, come tell me how you and yourEwife agree together; for I think it is iflaid, yorr fork wives will be mafters ■[,of their hufbands in lefs than a year’s:time if poflible they can.Ned. Come, Harry, my fervice to|»you we’ll talk no more of that fubjedlnow, for I mu ft be going home, for ;fear you fhould hear fbmething Iwould not have you, and fee fomething:I would not "have you fee.Harry. Well, then Ned, I do fup-iA YORK DIALOGUE. s tpofe it is with you, -as with moft ofyour neighbours, your wife is themafter ?Ned. Faith, Harry, not much mas¬ter, (fcratching his head) but I doubtfhe’Il come and find us together, andthen there will be~— -Harry. .What then, Ned, let hercome, I have a mug or two of ale ather ferrice, and fhall be glad to feeher?Ned. So fhall not I, Harry.Harry. Why, Ned, how can fhe herangry with you, when fhe fees yonwith an old acquaintance you have notfeen this two or three years ?Ned. That’s nothing.Harry. What, Ned, do you not agreethen really, and has been married btitthree years; fuppofe fhe fhould come,what would or could fhe fay to you ?Ned. Dear Harry, do not defire meto tell you, for if i would, and yoirfliould happen to tell it again, and itfhould come to her ears, that it was Ithat told you, I might as well run myji country as (lay at home.Harfy. Ned, my fervice to you,. upon my honour, as the gentlemen*:l12 A YORK DIALOGUE,fays^ I will never fay any thing of U !to any body.Ned. Well then, Harry, if I be outat any time, as now with you, whenI go home, as foon as I am got withindoors, {he’ll begin with a pretty tonefile has learned of her neighbours.Oh, brave fir! you are a fine hufband;you mind your bufinefs and {hop, asyou promifed me before we were mar- jried ; do you not, you drunken dog, ;you rogue, you rafcal, where haveyou been thefe fix hours, (tho’ it were* but three) firra, give me an accountwhere you have been.Harry. Well, Ned, do you give heran account where you was, or whatanfwer do you make her.Ned. All that 1 fay to her is, Pray, imy dear, be not in fuch a pafiion, for iI was with an old friend, that l havenot feen this two or three years. A (pox on your old friends, fays flie, andyou too, murt: you go and fill yourbelly with good meat and drink, andI and my poor children fiarve at home, jywith only a little bread and cheefe, acurfe on the firft day I faw you.Harry. Why, Ned, 1 hope your cir-/:A YORK DIALOGUE. 15<umftances arc not fo low in theworld, but that you £an afford yourwife pretty well to keep houfe with.Ned. Why, Harry, there’s feldcma day but we have a joint of meat, ei¬ther boiled or roafted, and I am AireHie never wants for good bread, cheefe,eggs, and butter.Harry. Pray, Ned, what does (hedo towards maintaining your houfe ?does fhe endeavour any ways to get apenny what portion had you with her,Ned ?1•taNed. Harry, never marry a cham¬bermaid, for they bring nothing withthem but a few old clothes of theirtniflrefTes, and for houfe-keeping, fewof them knows any thing of It; forthey can hardly make a pudding or apye, neither can they fpin, nor knit,nor wafli, except it be a few laces tomake themfelves fine withal.Harry. What would Ihe be at ?Ned. Why, always a gofliping, thereis fuch a company of them in ourftreet, that there’s never a day butfome or other of them meet together.Harry. Where cfo they meet ?Ned. Where the beft country ale is,£4 A YORK DIALOGUE.Harry. What! do they make a fit¬ting of it when they meet ?Ned. A fitting of it,'yes, yes, theywill fit from three till ten at night,and drink like fUhes, aad talk againfttheir hufbands.Harry. What do you fay when (hecomes home ? do not you a(k her where£he has been, that {he ilay’d fo late ?Ned. 1 dare not fay one word toher, bvt am glad (he will let me go tobed, and deep quietly.Harry. What becomes of your chil¬dren thofe days ? who looks after themall that while ?Ned. No-body but a filly maid fhehired, who can do nothing ; 1 am fainas well as I can, to boil them theirmilk for their {uppers, and help to getthem to bed.Harry. Does not Ihe afk when {hecomes home how her children do, andwho gave them their (uppers, and gotthem to bed. "Ned. Never, never, Harry; butperhaps the next morning will getthem up herfelf, and put them on,poor things, the fame linen they hadon three days before.A YORK DIALOGUE. 15Harry. How do you allow yourwife ? do you allow her fo much aweek ? how gets fhe the money to fparefor gofliping.Ned. Why fhe watches me; and ifI fell any thing in the fhop, then diecomes to me, and tells me, fhch achild wants this, and fuch a one that;fo I am fain to give her money forgpiietnefs fake.Harry. Why, Ned, fhe makes ameer fool.of you.Ned. ’Tis not my cafe alone, Harry,for mod of my neighbours have notmuch better wives ; for the better fort,they fay, love carding and goffiping,and-cold tea.Harry. Well, Ned, I think youhave almofl fatisfied me, and l pro-mife you for your fake, 1 will nevermarry any one of that fort, call’dchamber-maids.Ned. If ever you marry, Harry, mar¬ry one that’s bred up in bufinefs, 1 meanone that knows how to look after herhoufe ; and as you endeavour to get apenny in your way, fhe will endea¬vour to get another in hers, fuch a onewill make both you and herfelf happy.f.6 A YORK DfALOCUS.Harry. Pray, then, Ned, what canyour wife, or any •man’s wife fay a-gainfl her hufband, if he takes all thepains (as you fay you do) to maintainher and her children handfomely ?Ned. I know not, but this I hear,is their way, if any new married wifecome among them ; firft (he muft payFor her admittance, then prefently af¬ter, fome of them will begin, Neigh-* ibour, your good health; another.Neighbour, 1 w-ifh you health andhappinefs ; another, Pray neighbour,what kind of a humour’d man is yourhufband ? another, Is he kind to you?another. Does he allow you as hefhould do ? another, If he does nor,neighbour, let us know, and we willtell you how to manage him, I war¬rant you.Harry. Well, Ned, I pity thee, withall my heart, and all them that havefitch wives ; but now you mult makethe belt of it, and live as quietly asyou can.Ned. Harry, I muft fo : well, comelet’s know what’s to pay, 1 have ftay’dtoo long, lb I am fure of a lecturewhen I go home. *A YORK DIALOGUE. 17Karry. Come, Ned, I treat you thistime, becauie I invited yoa, it may beyou will find your wife in a better hu¬mour than you think of,Ned. I wi(h I may, Harry, I amfure of it, that Ihould make me flay athome, and mind rrty.bufmefs a greatdeal better than I have done of late.Harry. How many children haveyou, Ned ?Ned. Two boys, and I believe ano¬ther coming.Harry. Well^ Ned, (he cannot findfault with you, but that you have donefamily-duty very well to have everyyear a child.Ned. Well, Harry, 1 muft take myleave of you, and I thank you for me jand if you do not go out of town to¬morrow, I hope I Rial! fee you again;there is a great deal more in a marriedRate than I have told you of, that is,all charges to the hulband, the ficken-ing-day, the week-day, the chritten-ing-day, three-week-day, the church-ing-day ; all thele days they have theirmeetings and difcourfes, which wouldtake half a day to tell them all ; andif the hufband be not there, to wait18 A YORK DIALOGUE,upon them on thofe days, foms ofthem will fay, Neighbour, where isyour hufband ? he Riould be here towait on us. If my hufband fhouldferve me fo, fays another, when I liein, odds hud. A third will fay, In-*deed neighbour, you give your hui-band too much liberty, more than Iwould do. So, Harry, when 1 gohome, fhe falls a telling me what Richa one and fuch a one, and all the com¬pany faid of me, for my not beingthere to wait upon them.Harry. Well, Ned, thou haft fatis-fied me very well, and for thy fake Iwill never marry a chamber-maid.Come, ring the bell, we’ll fee whatthere’s to pay;, and fhould be glad ofyour company longer, if it ftand toyour conveniency.Ned. Harry, 1 thank you, but homeI muft go now.Harry. Dick, what’s to pay ?Dick. One dulling, Sir.Harry. There it is for you: Well,•Ned, good-night to you, my fervice toyour fpoufe ; and if l ftay to-morrow,I’ll come and fee you and her.Ned. Harry, Good-night to you, IA YORK riALOGUE. ' iqthank you for me, and I ihall be gladto fee you to-morrow ; but whethermy wife will of no, I cannot tell, forI doubt I lhall find her but fo and foin her humour.Harry. Good-night to' yon, Ned,thank you for your good company:it has been very pleafant, and I hopewill find all things eafy and quiet athome. .Three excellent new Songs. ,I. The good Moufe-wife.Wou’d yott chufe a wife,For a happy life.Leave the court and the country {ake,Where Doily and Sue,Young Moiiy and Prue,Follow Roger* and John,Whilft harveft goes on,And merrily merrily rake.Leave the London dames(Be it fpoke to their thamcs)To ly in their beds till noon,Then get up and flretch,And paint too and patch.( 20 )Some widgeon to catch.Then look ar their watch,And wonder they rofe up fo fooa.Then coffee and tea,Both green and bohea,Are ferv’d to their tables in plate,Where tattles do run,As Iwift as the fun,Of what they have won,And who is undone,By their gaming and fitting up late.The lafs give me here,Tho* brown as my beer.That knows how to govern her houfeThat can milk her cow,Or farrow her fow.Make butter and cheefe,Or gather green peafe.And values fine clothes not a fonfe.This is the girl .•* fWorth rubies and pearl;A wife that will make a man rich ;We gentlemen needNo quality breed.To fquander awayWhat taxes would pay ;We care not in faith for fuch.( 21 )II. Tak your auld cloak about ye.In winter when the rain rain’d cauld,And froft and fnaw on ilka hill,And Boreas, with his blafts fae bald.Was threat’ning a’ our ky to kill;Then Bell, my wife, wha loves na ftrife,She faid to me right haftily,l Get up, goodman, fave Cromie’s life,And tak your auld cloak about ye.1 My Cromie is an ufeful cow,And fhe is come of a good kine ;! Aft has fhe wet the bairn’s mou.And I am laith that fhe (hou’d tyne;!Get up, goodman, it is fou time.The fun fhines in the lift fae hie ;Sloth never made a gracious end.Go tak your auld cloak about ye.IMy cloak ws anes a good grey cloak.When it was fitting for my wear;But now it’s fcaritly worth a groat,For I ha’e worn’t this thirty year ;.Let’s fpend the gear that we ha’e won,We little ken the day we’ll die:Then I’ll be proud, fiuce l ha’e fwornTo ha’e a new cloak about me.In days when our king Robert rang.His trews they cofl but ha’f a crown:( 22 )He faid. they were a groat o’er dear.And ca’d the taylor thief and ioun.He was the king that wore a crown,And thou’rt a man of laigh degree, |’Tis pride puts a’ the kintry down,Sae tak thy auld cloak about thee.Every land has its ain laugh,Ilk kind of corn it has its hool 5I think the warld is a* run„wrang,When ilka wife her man wad rule (Do ye not fee Rob, Jock, and Hab,As they are girded gallantly.While I fit hurkling in the ale,I’ll ha’e a new cloak about me. -Goodman, I wat ’tfs thirty years,Since we did ane anither ken jAnd we have had between us twa.Of lads and bonny lafles ten:Now, they are women grown and menI with and pray well may they be.And if you prove a good hufband,E’eirtak your auld cloak about ye.:Bell my wife, fhe loves nae ftrife jBut Ihe wad guide me if fhe can,And to maintain an eafy life,I-aft maun yield, though I’mgooci:man:t 23 )Nought's to be won at woman’s hand,Unlefs ye give her a’ the plea;I Then I’ll leave aff where I began,And tak my auld cloak about me.III. Foolifli fort, a Heart.1 is now fince I fat down before,this foolifh Fort, a heart,(Time ftrangely fpent) a year or more,and ftill I did my part.Made my approaches, from her hand,unto her lip did rife ; *And did already underltandthe language of her eyes.Proceeding on with no lefs art,my tongue was engineer; »I thought to undermine the heart,by whifp’ring in the ear.When this did nothing, i brought down,great Cannon, oaths, and (hot,A thoufand, thoufand to the town,and ftill it yielded not. 'iI then refplv'd to ftarve the place,by cutting off all kiffes ;Praifing and gazing on her face,with all fuch little bleffes.( 24 )To draw her out, andI drew all battriesAnd brought myfelf to lie at length,as if no fiege had beenWhen I had done what man could do,and thought the place my own,The enemy lay quiet tooand {miI’d at all was done.1 fent to know from whence and where,thefe hopes, and this relief:A fpy informed, Honour was there,and did command in chief.March, march, quoth I, the word(Iraight give,let’s lofe no time, but leave her:That giant upon air will live,and hold it out for ever.To fuch a place our camp remove,as will no fiege abide;I hate a fool that ftarves her love,only to feed her pride.FINIS. . >, IG L A S G O W,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, 1802.from her flrength, ,in.