A Love Song*.‘ o 1Ta which are addac!.The Brave Sailor,Buxom bonny Willie.Bonny Betsy Taylor.The Highland Laddie.Falkirk, Primed in the YWr j ^<2}BON N Y BEL L.vLs fair Etiina dwek 2 raatd,not of high birtn, ror lovr,>lfis no: ra 1 teriii when, I trow,but ’tis n c t IonsHowe’er this lafs of UlT.-s wasmuch for. fe sr bsajitv lan- ’d ;Each foppbn^ that could read or write,her pciife i*‘ prosUtm d.Tim M id '^e was a Virgin fair.far h-r full long did -Strephon whine,enone. cckMmNo hose on 0compile wii her ciurais t^cel! ^V,h3ro9f’sr vale could e'efwith bonny Bdl»At Uft grave Damon made hits fuit,fjie lilten’d to his tale ;He pled a gerijine" virtuous love,and virtae did prevailThe choice ap rov’d, to lend hie aid,Tnalius did not fail;Each vale reloundtd with the praifeof Dimon and his Bell.'4'h‘S &c.— -A- — s- —■ • -A»—^THE, BRAVE SAILOR,tyC1.. 2, fiYe gallant fouls, who beat ft) higJvwith B ,iti(h glory in each vein, ■From his example learn to die,whole honour never kn>e\v one {lain.At break of day two fail appear’d-and on the larboard-quarter ficod;For ahlion Oraigh't the de.cks vere clearVl,which foon, alas! were d)-d \yi:h b oeci 1My friond maintain’d the, ym qnal h^ht.till bringing aH .gur<srtcWith red-hot ha'ls their thurder freight,and *:p one FrefiCarrfiin blew in sir !The other firuck her colours now,but, ah! too late his life to lave,For e’er the hoftile flag was low,a (hot had mark’d him for the grave.BUXOM BONNY WILUE.Wuen fragrant bloom of yellow broomdelights our lads and lafTes,O’er yellow broom in beauty’s bloommy Will all lads furpafTefr.Wi’ Willie then rU,o’er the braes,I’il o’er the braes wi’ Willie;W»’ Wiilie then I'll o’er the braes,I’ll o’rr the braes wi’ Willie,From morn to eve I’ll fmg the praifeof buxom bonny Willie,Willy, Willy, Willy,From morn to eve I’ll Ting the praifeof buxom bonny Willy.Reclin’d by Tay at noon-tide day,we'll pu’ the daify pretty;The live-lang day we’ll kifs and play,or fb g tome loving ditty*Wi WiUie"thea, &c.Now blyth and gay at fetting day,g f niitlierdinna hinder,I’ll fmg tnd play wi’ Willy gay,for we twa ne’er shall finder.Wi’ Willie then,o—o—o—o—o—o—o—o—o—d— o-—otJnb ; • o'tci .8 *:V,fo*ortfj«t<J -j : Ot ntJ'WBONNy BETSY TAYLOR.Im Hygate, as I now do tell.One B *tsy Taylor there did dwell,W io was a b auty of renown,But now her rofes are pull’d down.With Mr. Hooker fhe did rtfide,A young man wifh’d her for his bride:Thev fix’d upon the wedding day,But all their joys are fled away.( 6 )Her {roflier was a wicked blade,This poor young girl h/e ^id perfuadeTo rob her Mailer—wick d deed !Which made her tender heart to bleed.Two hundred pounds in goods they flole,O now have mercy on their foul!For they were ta’en, and caft to die,And in the dreadful cells ih^y lie 1When at the bar this fair maid Hood,The tears ran down j ill like * flood;The rofes from her checks were fled.She droop’d with heart as cold as lead.When to the bar, poor foul, was brought,For mercy on her knees file fought!Tne Judge unto her then did cry,There is no help, for you mud die.When from the bar they did her take,With grief her heart was like to breakH r fweetheart he was in the Goutt;His deareft girl for to fupport.When back to prifun they did go.And they mull part—O fatal woe4The foene of grief no tongue canWhen ftie was led into the sell.o( 7 )With achin? heart fae now does He,Until the day that ilia mull die;nen draft in whi e from top to toe,To meet a-er fate this maid will go. ’So ma:de>i3 now take warning all,R.':flea up,>n her wretqhed fad,And when you hear the dead bell toll.Fall on your knees, pray for her foul.*< \1 £ J i ■ S - . . ,, ' ‘O! by her deaut a warning take.Before with you it oe too late;May llie get ft ength to meet the b’ow,V/nen fits fmks to the ftndes below.* .—* *BONIE HIGHLAND L \DDIE.The bonieft lad that e’er I faw,Bonie laddie, Highland laddie.Wore a plaid, and was fu’ braw,Bonie Highland laddie.On his head a bonnet blue,Bonie laddie. Highland hddie,His loyal heart was firm and true,Boaie Highland laddie.Trumpets foimd, and cannons roar,Borne Laflle, Lowland hfiie;And a’ the hills wi echoes roar,Bunie Lowland lafik*.Glorv, honour, now invite,Buiie hlTi: Lowland ufli*,For freedom and mv Kmg to fight,Bonie Lowland Lfiie*Toe fun a backward courfe fliall take,Borite laddie. Highland.!addie.Ere ought thy manly courage {hake, ,Bonie Highland ladd:e.Go, for vourfelf procure renown,Bonie Isdciie, Highland laddie;And for your lawful King his crown,Jponie HighUnd laddie.