ACOLLECTIONOFINTERESTINGANECDOTES,RELIGIOUS,MORAL and ENTERTAINING,SELECTED FROMSEVERAL EMINENT AUTHORS.How much letter is it to get -wisdom than gold.SOLOMON.GLASGOW,Printed by Chapman ir Lang,FOR M. OGLE; R. OGLE, LONDON, ANDOGLE & AIRMAN, EDINBURGH./ANECDOTES,bZLIGldUS,MORAL and ENTERTAINING.I. CrROTius ufed to take for his'motto, “ Hora ruit,” tcput himfelf in continual remembrance, that he fhould ufefullyemploy that time which was flying away with extreme rapi¬dity; and yet, fo great a fenfe had he of'the non-itnp'rove-ment of it, that with all his learning, when he came to die,he exclaimed, “ I have waited my life in incefiant toil, andhave done nothing.”2. Dr.-Cotton Mather was fo careful to redeem his time,that, to prevent the tedioufnefs of vifits, he wrote over hisftudy door in capital letters—BE SHORT.3. It was a common faying of Julius Csefar, “ that no mu-fic was fo charming in his ears as the requelts of his friends,and the fupplication of thofe in want of his aflillance.” LetChriftians learn to imitate this Pagan.4. The aggregate population on the furfaee of the knownhabitable globe is eftimated at S95,,500,000 fouls. If we rec¬kon with the Ancients, that a generation lafts thirty years,then in that fpace 895,300,01:0 human beings will be bornand die; confequently 81,760 miift be dropping into eterni¬ty every day, 3;4?7, every hour, or about 56 every minute.( 3 )Reader—How awful is this refledlion! Condier. Prepare.Mrateh.5. An inftance of the power of confcience u'e have :n LardRochefter. “ One day,” fays he, “ I was at an atheifticaimeeting at a perfon of quality’s, 1 undertook to manage thecaufe, and was the principal difputant againfl God and piety,and for my performance received the applaufe of the wholecompany; upon which my mind was terribly ftruck, and Iimmediately replied thus to myfelf—“ Gocd God! that aman that walks upright, that fees the wonderful works ofGod, and has the ufe of his fenfes and reafon, Ihould ufe themto the defying of his Creator.”6. Conflantine the Great, in order to reclaim a mifer,took a lance and marked out a fpace of ground of the fize ofthe human body, and told him, “ Add heap to heap, accu¬mulate riches upon riches, extend the bounds of your pofief-fions, conquer the whole world, in a few days fuch a Ipot asthis will be all you will have.” “ I take this fpear,” faysSaurin, “ I mark out this (pace among you, in a few daysyou will be worth no more than this. Go to the tomb ofthe avaricious man, go down and fee his coffin, and his fhroud,in four days thefe may be all you will have.”7. When Garrick (hewed Dr. Johnfon his fine houfe, gar¬dens, ftatucs, pictures, &c. at Hampton-Court, what ideas didthey awaken in the mind of that great man ? Inftcad of a flat¬tering compliment which was expeifhed, “ Ah, David, Da¬vid, David,” faid the Dodlor, clapping his hand upon the lit¬tle man’s Ihoulder, “ thefe are the things which make a death¬bed terrible.”8. Dr. Johnfon faying to Mr. Bofwell, that he was engagedto go out early in the morning. Bpfwell faid, “ Early, Sir?”■V .../( 4 )“ Why, Sir,” faid Johufon, “ a London morning does notgo with the fun.”9. George II. once faid of the Duke of Newcaflle, that heloft an hour every morning, and was running after it all thereft of the day. A fine reproof to the indolent.to. It was a queftion afked of the brethren, both in theclaffical and provincial meetings of Minifters, twice in theyear, if they’ preached the duties of the times? And whenit was found that Mr. Leighton did not, he was cenfured forthis omiflion, but faid, “ If all the brethren have preachedto the times, may not one poor brother be fuifered to preachon eternity.”ix. Wh en one prefented Antipat&r, King of Macedonia,with a book that treated on happinefs, his anfwer was, “ Iam not at leifure.” How many are there who when exhort¬ed to ftudy their Bible, the true guide to felicity, make thefame anfwer.12. When fome one was talking before that acute Scotch¬man, Dr Chyne, of the excellence of human nature,—“ Hoot,hoot nion," faid he, “ Human nature is a rogue and a fcoundrel, or -whyn’ould it perpetually Jiand in need of laws and religion?” And furelyif a caufe be examined by its effedis, if a principle be confi-dered by its operation, that man mull indeed be blind who'will not acknowledge the depravity of human nature.13. Mr. Thomas Vincent had the whole New Teftamentand Pfalms by heart. He took this pains, he often faid, notknowing but they who took from him his pulpit, might, intime, demand his Bible alfo.14. It is faid of a captain, of whom hiftorians have takenmore care to record the wifdom than the name, that , he re¬quired the Emperor Charles V. to difeharge him from hisfervice. Charles afted the reafon. The prudent foldier re-( 5 )plied, “ Became there ought to be a paufe between the hurryof life and the day of death ”15. The celebrated Linnaeus always teftified in his conver-fation, writings, and adlions, the greateft frnfe of God’s om-nifcience: yea, he was fo ftrongly impreffed with the idea,that he wrote over the door of his library, “ Innocui vivtlt ru¬men ad eft," Live innocent, God is prefent.”16. The Sabbath day was anciently called dies lucis, theday of light. Alfo Regina dierum, the Queen of days. Theprimitive church had this day in high veneration: it was agreat badge of their religion; for, when the queftion was afk-ed, “ Keepeft thou the Sabbath?” The anfwer was made,“ I am a Chriflian, and dare not omit the celebration of theLord’s day.”17. That great man, Judge Hale, thus fpeaks of the Sab¬bath—“ I have (fays he) by long and found experience found,that the due obfervance of this day, and of the duties of it,have been of Angular comfort and advantage to me The ob¬fervance of this day hath ever had joined to it a blefiing uponthe reft of my time, and the week that hath been fo begun,hath been blefled and profperous to me; and on the otherfide, when I have been negligent of the duties of this day, thereft of the week has been unfuccefsful and unhappy to myown fecular employments; fo that I could eafdy make aneilimate of my fuccelfes in my own fecular employments theweek following, by the manner of my palling of this day; andthis I do not write lightly nr inconfiderately, but upon a longand found obfervation and experience.”18. Mr. Locke, juftly efteemed one of the greateft mailersof reafon, being alked a little before his dilfolution—“ IVhat■was the JhortcJl and fureji ivay for a young gentleman to attain a trueknowledge of the Chrijlian religion in the full and jujl extent of it?"/( )made this memorable reply, “ Let him ftudy the holy Sciip-tures, efpecially the New Teflament. Therein are contain¬ed the words of eternal life. Jt lias God for its author, fal-vation for its end, and truth, without any mixture of error,for its matter.”19. A Perfian foldier, who was heard reviling Alexander theGreat, was well admonlflied by his officer. “ Sir,_yw< are paidto fight again]} JlltKander, and not to rail at him” May wc not fayof mankind at large, that they are bound to pray for their e-nemies, and not to rail at them?so. The famous Boerhaave was one not eafily moved bydetradHon. He ufed to fay, “ The fparks of calumny will beprefently extindl of themfelves, unlefs you blow them.” Itwas a good remark of another, that “ the malice of ill tonguescalf upon a good man, is only like a mouthful of fmoke blownupon a diamond, which, though it clouds its beauty for theprefent, yet it is eafily ruhbed off, and the gem reftoredwith little trouble to its owner.”21. As Mr. Romaine was one day walking in the flreetwith another gentleman, he heard a poor man call upon Godto damn him. Mr. R. Hopped, took out half-a-crown, and,prefenting it, faid, “ My friend, I will give you this if youwill repeat that oath.” The man Darted: « What! Sir,”faid he, “ do you think I will damn my foul forhalf-a crown?”Mr. R. anfwered, “ As you did it juD now for nothing, Icould not fuppofe you would refufe to do it for a reward!”The poor creature Druck with this reproof, as Mr. R. in¬tended he Ihould be, replied, “ God blefs and reward you.Sir, whoever you are, 1 believe you have laved my foul: Ihope I lhall never fwear again while I live.”32. It was a cuDom in former days for met chants in their( 7 )hooks of accounts to have “ Laus Deo” (Praife to God)written in the beginning of every leaf, and it flood on thehead of every page in large and fair letters, to put them al¬ways in mind that in all their human affairs they fliould car¬ry on a divine defign for the glory of God.“ There are four things,” fays Mr. P. Henry, “whichI would not for the world have againft me,—the word ofGod, my own conicience, the prayers of the poor, and theaccount of godly minifters.”24. The greateft talkers are not always the elofeft thinkers.“ Hence,” fays Montefquieu, “ A man talks in general inproportion to the fmall degree of thought which he poffeffes.”25. A diffipated young fellow, feeing an aged hermit goby him barefoot—“ Father,” faid he, “ you are in a verymiferable condition if there is not another world.” “ True,fon,” replied the hermit, “ but what is thy condition if thereis?”26. A child of fix years of age being introduced into com¬pany, for his extraordinary abilities, was alked by a dignifiedClergyman, “ where God was,” with the proffer of an orange.“ Tell me (replied the boy) where he is not? ami I will giveyou two.”27. Richard Boyle, (generally called the great Earl of Cork),it is faid, outlived mofl: of thofe who had known the meannefsof his beginning; but lie delighted to remember it himfclf, andeven took pains to preferve the memory of it to pofterityin the motto which he always ufed, and which lie caufed tobe placed on his tomb, viz. “ God’s Providence is my inheritance.”A noble motto ti uly!28- What a different fpirit did Lewis XII. of France man-iftft, when he was incited to perfecute the Waldenfes, he re¬turned this truly great and noble reply, “ God forbid that I .( 8 )fliould perfecute any for being more religious than rnyfelf.”29. The great Mr. Boyle had fuch a veneration of God,and fuch a fenfe of his prefence, that he never mentioned thename of God, without a paufe and vifible flop in his dif-courfe.30. Faith empties the heart of fin, and fills it up with grace.31. A cockle-filh may as foon crowd the ocean into its nar¬row fhell, as vain man ever comprehend the decrees of God.34. Sometimes, by the force of truth, the outer door ofthe underftanding is broken up; while the inner door of thewill remains fall bolted.33. Other finners ferve the devil for pay; but curfers andfvvearers are volunteers, w'ho get nothing for their pains.34. The duft, or the finery, about your Bibles, is a witnefsnpw, and will at the la ft day, be a witnefs, of the enmity ofyour hearts againft Chrift as a prophet.33. The natural man is a fpiritual monfter. His heart iswhere his feet {hould be; fixed upon the earth: his heels arelifted up againft heavp^., which his heart fhould be fet on.His face is towards hell; his back towards heaven. He loveswhat he {hould hate, and hates what he ftiould love; joys inwhat he ought to mourn for, and mourns for what he ought torejoice in; glories in his (hame, and is ajhamd of his glory; ab¬hors what he {hould defire, and defres what he {hould abhor.36. Faith is the foul’s going out of if elf for all it wants.37. As a wrho!e neft of venomous creatures muft needs bemere dreadful, than any few of them that come creepingforth, fo the fin of thy nature, that mother of abominations,muft be worfe than any particular lulls, that appear ftirringin thy heart and life.38. Thy corrupt heart is like an ant’s neft, on which, while( 9 )the ftone lieth, none of them appear: but take off the ftone,and llir them up but with the point of a ftraw; you’ll feewhat a fwarm is there, and how lively they be. Juft fuch afight would thy heart afford thee, did the Lord but withdrawthe reftraint he has laid upon it, and fufter Satan to ftir it upby temptation.39. Temptation is the fire that brings up the feum of theheart.40. I would rather utter one of thofe groans the Apoftlefpeaks of, Rom. viii. a6. than fhed Efau’s tears, have Balaam’sprophetic fpirit, or the joy of the flony-ground hearer.41. Great was the cry in Egypt, when the firft-born, ineach family, was dead: but are there not many families, whereall are dead together?42. What we term, the courfe of Nature; is the inceffantadminiftration of Providence.43. Every fin is an imitation of the devil, and creates akind of hell in the heart.44. The pages of Scripture, like the produ<ftions of Nature,will not only endure the teft, but improve upon the trial. Theapplication of the microfcope to the one, and a repeated me¬ditation on the other, are fure to difplay new beauties, and pre*fent us with higher attradlives.45. Nature is fo corrupted, as not to underftand its owndepravation.46. Prayer like Jonathan’s, bow, returns not empty. Ne¬ver was faithful prayer loft at fea. No merchant tradeswith fuch certainty, as the praying faint. Some prayers, in¬deed, have a longer voyage than others; but then returnwith the richer lading at the laft.47. The nettle mounteth on high; w'hile the violet fhrowdsitfelf under its own leaves, and is chiefly found out by it’s fra-( IO )grancy. Let Cliriftians be fatisfied w ith the honor that com-eth of God only.48. God hides himfe'f and his Providence behind fecondeaufes.49. The name of God is the believer’s harbour; wrhere hemay betake himfelf as boldly, as a man fteps into his ownhoufe when overtaken by a Ihower.jo. A proud heart and a lofty mountain are never fruitful.51. Herod feared John, and did many things. Had hefeared God, he would have laboured to have done every thing52. I cannot commit fin, but I muft fet my foot on the lawof my Maker. I cannot gratify my lulls, but I muft go overmy bleeding Saviour. Therefore, away, foul tempter: I hate,both thee and thy motions.53. None will have fuch a dreadful parting from Chrift,in the laft day, as they, who by profeflion, went half-waywith him, and then left him.54. Earth, earth is what worldly men never think theyhave enough of, till death comes and Hops their mouth with .a fhovelful of earth digged out of their own grave.55. The two fons of the firft man carried in their names a ’memorandum of what they and their pofterity were to expedl.C iin fignifies pcffejjion: and Abd figniftes vanity or emptinefs. All iworldly pofieflions are, at once, empty and vanifning; unfa-tisfadlory while they continue, and liable to a fpeedy decay.56. Believing is the moll wonderful thing in the world.Put any thing of thy own to it, and thou fpoileft it.57. Watch againft conftitution fins. See them in theirvilenefs, and they wdll never break out into adl.j8. Omitting little truthsy againft light, may breed hell inIWt.( " )t'ne confcience, as well as committing the greatc-ft _/i«, agai..ftlight.59. A million of torches cannot fhow us the fun. It canonly be feen, by it’s own light. Nor can all the natural rea-fon in the world difcover, either what God is, or what wor-fhip he experts, without divine and fupcrnatural revelationfrom himfclf.60. Let fuch as chufe it, make their boaft of other things,for which England is famous; a? fine churches, bridges, wool,&c. If I was aflted, “ what advantage have Lnglilhmen, and“ what profit is there of living in this ifland?” my anfwerihould be, “ much every way: but chiefly, becaufe to us areu committed the oracles of God, and liberty to read our Ea-«< ther'i mind in our Mother-longue.”61. Truth fhould be the bond of union among all.62. If a man ftrike his hand upon the point of a fpear, hehurts not the fpear, but his hand: or, if he fpurn at a Hone,he hurts not the ftone, but his foot. So is it, with the def-pifers of Chrift, and the revilers of his gofpel.63. fVenceJlaus, King of Bohemia, after the defeat and flightof his army, being himfelf taken captive by the enemy, wasafked, how he did? his anfw'er was, “ Never better. While“ I had all my army about me, I could find but little time to“ think on God; whereas, now, being flript of all earthly de-“ pendencies, I think on God alone, and betake myfelf whol-« ly to his Providence.”64. There will be miftakes in divinity wdiile men preach;and errors in goverment while men govern.65. If confcience be as a thoufand witneffcs, the all-feeingGod is as a thoufand confciences.66. Good relolutions (as fome call them), without grace, are( '2 )like breath upon Heel; which quickly flies off and vanifhesaway.67. No fin can be little; becaufe God is holy.68. Every man has 1-wo characters: a. good one, from hisfriends; and a bad one, from his enemies. The beft way, per¬haps, for us, to form a juft eftimate of any perfon whatever,is, by mixing his two characters together, and making one ofboth.69. The greateft and trueft nobility is, to be a fervant of thegreat God. He is nobly defcended, w’ho is born from above.70. In it’s beft eftate, free-will was but a weather-cock,which turned at the breath of a ferpent’s tongue. It made abankrupt of our father Adam-, it pulled down the houfe, and .fold the land, and fent all the children to beg their bread.71. There are two C’s, which I will never facrifice to anyman; my confcience, and my conftitution.72. You muft be going either to heaven or hell. Y’ou can.not go two ways at once.73. Beware of yielding to Satan’s motions. A faint’s flefhheals not fo eafily as other’s.74. I never trufted God, but I found him faithful; nor m^own heart, but 1 found it falfe.75. Moft men look upon their friends, as they do upontheir fun-dials; only when the fun fhines.76. What is life, but a warfare? And what is the world,but a thoroughfare?77. He that lives without fear, fliall die without hope.78. Pafiionate reproofs are like medicines given fcaldinghot: the patient cannot take them. If we with to do goodto thofe we rebuke, we ftiould labor for meeknefs of wifdcm,and ufe foft words and hard arguments.( i3 )79- Contentment without the world, is better than thew orld-without contentment.80. Either praying will make a man leave off finning, orfmning, wall make him leave off praying.81. Make the Sabbath the market-day for thy foul.82. What wre win by prayer, we lhall wear with comfort.83. The Sabbath is not a day to fcaft our bodies, but ourfouls.84. He that eyes a providence, {hall always have a provi¬dence to eye.85. No worldly thing feems great, to him that minds e-ternity.86. None can make a ChrLftian, but he that made theworld.87. The late lady Stormont, fen. mother of the late LordChief Juftice Mansfield, upon being complimented by anotherlady, that “ {he had the three fineft 1'ons in Scotland to be“ proud of;” made anfwer ‘ No, madam; I have much to‘ be thankful for, but nothing to be proud of.’88. Don’t you teach the Bible, but let the Bible teach you.89. Every perfon, that fits under the found of the gofpel,{hould alk himfelf thefe three queftions: “ Do I know any“ thing of the excellency of the gofpel ?—Do 1 feel the power of“ it?—And, do I live according to the rales of it?”90. A good w’oman ufed to fry, that “ a family withoutu prayer is like an houfe without a roof; expofed to all the“ injuries of weather, and to every ftorm that blows.”91. Euclid (the difciple of Socrates) having offendeda bro¬ther of his, the brother cried out in a rage, “ let me die, if“ I’m not reveng’d on you, one time or other.”—To whomEuclid replied, with a fweetnefs next to Chriftian, “ and“ let me die, if I don’t foften you by my kindneffes, andmake you love me as well as ever.”( H )92. I’lato, in his youth, had wrote feveral Tragedies.But he no fooner heard Socrates ledhure upon virtue, thanhe burnt them all, and devoted himfelf to the purfuit of wif.dom and morality.—So, when the foul has been favinglytaught of God, it's vanities fall off, and it’s delire is to hemade ■wile amfhappy to falvation.92. The duke oi .Alva having given feme prifoners theirlives, they afterwards petitioned him for fome food. His an-fwer was, that *4 he would grant them life, but no meat.’’And they werefamifhed to death.94. Difputing, captious, bigotted people, do but pumpthemfelves dry.95. Zeuxis, a painter, painted fome grapes in fo natural amanner, that the birds flew to the picture, and pecked at thefruit.—What are the pleafures of fin, but painted grapes,which, beheld through the deltdive medium of Satan’s color¬ing, appear to’be real, while, in fact, they are empty andvoid and wafle ?96. Good Mr. Rogers, the martyr, on the morning he wasburnt, put on his clothes very carelcfsly; chearfuily faying,that “ it mattered little how they were put on, feeing they“ were fo foon to be put off forever.”—Such Ihould be ourattachment to all worldly things.97. ‘Thales, she Miletian, one of the feven fages of Greece;while he refided in Egypt, meafured the exaft height of thepyramids there, by the Ihadows they call.—So, one way ofattaining to the knowledge of dotftrinal truths, is, by confider-ing the confequences of the oppofite errors.98. Anaxagoras, the Ionian, being alked, to what end he wasborn,'replied, “ to contemplate the fun, moon, and Ikies. ’—Had he been a Chriftian, he would have anfwered, “ to gla-“ rifv God, and to be glorified by him.”( '5 )99- Brand Hcir.hrry, Sunday, Nov. IT, 17 JO.—I told my peo-■ pie, from the pulpit, that, as I was walking to church, thi«morning, I could not help obferving, how different the trees‘looked to day, from what they did this day fe’nnight. Theywere, then, covered with almoft an infinity of leaves: theyare, now, half-flript, and their verdant ornaments lie con-fuming on the ground. Juft fuch an alteration does deathmake in a country, a parifh, or a family. Providence fliakesthe tree, and dowm fall the human leaves. Put though the: leaf drops, the tree remains: though the -body dies, the foul1 furvives.100. Men adopt vice and error, for want of knowing the: true deformity of both: as, in Rufiia, w'here unmarried wo¬men conftantly wear veils, ’tis frequent for the bridegroomnever to fee his wife’s face til! after marriage.tot. Unfair difputants are ever for dwelling on the moft un¬favourable fide of an argument; like the blundering painter,• who, being to take the profile of a lady that had loft an eye,very judicioufiy drew her blind fide.102. A man’s free-will can’t cure him even of the toothach,or of a fore finger; and yet he madly thinks ’tis in it’s powerto cure his foul.103. Look where you will, and you’ll generally find, thatfree-willers are very free livers.104. Reafon is God’s candle in man. But, as a candlemuft firft be lighted, e’er it will enlighten; fo reafon muft beilluminated by divine grace, e’er it can favingly difeern fpirit-ual things.105. Free-will left to itfelf, may carry a man to Tybuni,and from thence to hell: but ’tis only free-grace that can■lead to holinefs and heaven.106. Bigots are ftiiT, ftraitened, and confined, like Fgyp-/( *6 )tian mummies, which are bound round with thoufands ofyards of ribbon.107. People of flu&uating principles referable what is fab¬led of Mahomet’s iron coffin, fufpended in the air, betweentwo large loadftones, but without touching either of them.108. A perfon once faid to a bad painter, “ you never“ broke th? fecond commandment in your life: for you ne-“ ver yet made the likenefs of any thing in heaven above or“ in the earth beneath.” May not the lame remark be ap¬plied to the generality of modern preachers, who never yetgave a true likenefs either of law or gofpel?109. The truths of the gofpel are to be introduced with dif-cretion and propriety.—A perfon once harangued on thefirength of Samfon: “ I affirm,” faid he, “ that this fame“ Samfon was the ftrongeft man that ever did or ever will“ live in'the world.”— ‘ I deny it,’ replied one of the com¬pany: ‘ you yourfelf are flron^er than he.’—“ How do you l“ make out that?”—‘ Becaufe you juft now lugged him in by‘ head and fhoulders.’no. Morality, not flowing from faith in Chrift, refemblesan artificial flower; which has the appearance, but neither ;the life, the beauty, nor the fragrance, of a real one. 'hi. An houle, uninhabited, foon comes to ruin; and a ■foul, uninhabited by the holy Spirit of God, verges fafter andfafter to deftrudtion.na. Nothing but Chrift will do for a dying finner: andwhy ffiould we dream, that any thing elfe will do for a livingtinner?113. Sin cannot enter heaven; but a fmner may.a 14. Flattery, is necftar and ambrofia to little minds. Theydrink it in, and enjoy it, like an old woman fucking metheg- ;lin through a quill.F I N I S.