GLASGPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSFASHIONABLE SONGS.i SINGERS’ COMPANION;A CHOICE SELECTION’4»86.KOiroaaaa aoioira aSONGS.ALICE GRA¥.She’s all my fancy painted her,She’s lovely she’s divine;But her heart it is another’s.She never can be mine.Yet loved I as man never loved.A love without decay;—Oh ! my heart—my heart is breaking'For the love of Alice Gray.Her dark brown hair is braided o’erA brow of spotless white ;Her soft blue eye now ualguishes—Now flashes with delight;The hair is braided not for me.The eye is turned away;Yet my heart—my heart is breakingFor the love of Alice Gray.I’ve sunk beneath the summer’s sun,And trembled in the blast;But my pilgrimage is nearly done.The weary conflict’s past,ind when the green sod wraps my graveMay pity haply say,"" Oh ! his heart—his heart was brokenFor the love of Alice Gray !”4THE SWISS BOY.Come, arouse thee, arouse thee, my hrave Swiss boy!Take thy pail, and to labour away.Come, arouse thee, arouse thee, my brave Swiss boy !Take thy pail, and to labour away.The sun is up, with ruddy beam,The kine are thronging to the stream.Come, arouse thee, &e.Am not I, am not I, say, a merry Swiss boy.When l hie to the mountain away PAm not I, am not I, say, a merry Swiss boy,When I hie to the mountain away ?For there a shepherd maiden dear.Awaits my song with listening ear.Am not I, &c.Then at night, then at night, O, a gay Swiss boy!I’m away to my comrades, away.T hen at night, then at night, O, a gay Swiss boy !I’m away to my comrades, away.The cup we fill, the wine is passed,In friendship round, untill at last.With “ Good night,” and “ Good night,” goes thehappy Swiss boyTo his home and his slumbers away.THE ANCHOR’S WEIGHED.The tear fell gently from her eye.When last we parted on the shore:My bosom heaved with many a sigh.To think I ne’er might see her more,5Dear yonth, she cried, and canst thou haste away ?My heart will break—a little moment stay.Alas ! I cannot—I cannot part from thee.The anchor’s weighed—farewell! farewell! remem¬ber me!Weep not, my love, I trembling said ;Doubt not a constant heart like mine.I ne’er can meet another maidWhose charm can fix my heart like thine.Go, then, she cried, but let thy constant mindOft think on her thou leavest in tears behind,A maid—this last embrace my pledge shall be.The anchor’s weighed—farewell! farewell! remem¬ber me !THE BOATIE ROWS.0 weel may the boatie row,And better may she speed ;And liesome may the boatie rowThat wins the bairns’ bread ;The boatie rows, the boatie rows,The boatie rows indeed ;And weel may the boatie row,That wins my bairns’ bread.When Jamie vow’d he wad be mineAnd wan frae me my heart,O muckle lighter grew my creel,He swore we’d never part:The boatie rows, the boatie rows.The boatie rows, fu’ weel,And muckle lighter is the load,When love bears up the creeh6There Sawney, Jock, and JanetieAre Tip and gotten laif;They’ll help to gar the boatfe roW,And lighten a’ out .cafe.The hoatie rows, the hoatie MWS,rvtun^ tfiSiG* Jaeif rM*iodof« sdTThe hoatie rows fu’ weel.And lightsome he her heart that beadThe murlain and the creel.And when wi’ age we’re worn down.And hirpling round the door.They’ll help to keep uS dry and warrt.As we did them before;Then weel may the boatie row.She wins the bairns’ bread ;And happy be the lot o’ a’.That wish the boatie speed.BEGONE DULL CAUE.Begone, dull care ! I prithee begone from me;Begone, dull care ! thou and I can never agree.Long time hast thou been tarrying here,And fain thou wouldst me kill;But i’ faith ! dull care,Thou never shalt have thy will,Too much care will make a young man grey ;And too much care will turn an old mart to clay,My wife shall dance, and I will sing,So merrily pass the day;For I hold it one of the wisest things,To drive dull care away.7MARRY FOR LOVE AND WORKFOR SILLER,When I and my Jenny theglther were tied.We had but sma’ share o’ the world between ns }Yet lo’ed ither weel, and had youth on our side.And strength and guid health were abundantlygi’en us;I warsled and toiled throng the fair and the foul.And she was right carefu’ o’ what I brought tillher,For aye we had mind o’ the canny auld rule,Jnst “ marry for love, and work for siller.’'I Our bairns they cam’ thick—we were thankfu* forthat.For the bit and the brattie cam’ aye alang wi’them;Our pan we exchanged for a guid much pat.And somehow or ither, we aye had to gi’e themOur laddies grew up, and they wrought wi mysel,’Hk ano gat as buirdly and stout as a miller.Our lasses they keepet us trig aye, and hale.And now we count a bit trifle o’ siller.But I and my Jenny are baith wearin’ down.And our lads and our lassies hae a’ gotten mar¬ried ;Yet sae, we can rank wi’ the best i’ the townThough our noddles we never too panghtily car¬ried.And mark me—I’ve now got a braw cochit hat,And in our civic building am reckon’d a pillar ;Is ua that a bit honour for ane to get at,Wh h married for love, and whi^wrought for siller?8HOME! SWEET HOME.’Mid pleasures and palaces, though we may roam,Be it ever so humhle, there’s no place like home;A charm from the skies seems to hallow us there,Which, seek through the world, is ne’er met withelsewhere.Home, home, sweet, sweet home !There’s no place like home ! There’s no placelike home !An exile from home, splendour dazzles in vain;Oh ! give me my lowly thatched cottage again.The birds singing gaily, that came at my call.Give me them, with the peace of mind, dearer timeall.Home, home ! sweet, sweet home !There’s no place like home ! There’s no placelike home !THE MINUTE GUN AT SEA.When in the storm, on Alhions coast,The night watch guards his wary post.From thoughts of danger free,He marks some vessel’s dusky form.And hears amid the howling storm.The minute gun at sea.The minute gun at sea.And hears amid the howling storm,Tke minute gun at sea.Swift on the shore a hardy fewThe life-hoat man with a gallant crew.And dare the dan^'rous wave;nThrough the wild surf they cleave there way.Lost in the foam, nor know dismay—For they go the crew to save.For they go the crew to save.Lost in the foam, nor know dismay—For they go the crew to save.But O, what raptures fill each breastOf the hopeless crew of the ship distress’d.;When landed safe, what joys to tellOf all the dangers that befell ?—Then is heard no more,By the watch on the shore.Then is heard no more, by the watch on theshore.The minute gun at sea.THE LIGHT GUITAR.O, leave the gay and festive scenes.The halls of dazzling light.And rove with me through forests greenBeneath the silent night.There as we watch (he ling’ring rays.That shine from every star.I’ll sing the song of happier days.And strike the light guitar.I’ll sing, &c.I’ll tell the how the maiden wept.When her true knight was slain,And how her broken spirit slept,And never woke again10i’ll tell thee how the steed drew nigh.And left his lord afar;But if my tale should make you (<. • .I’ll strike the light guitar.But if mv tale, &c.* *YE MARINERS OF ENGLAND.Ye mariners of England,Who guard our native seas.Whose flag has braved a thousand yearsThe battle and the breeze !Your glorious standard launch again.To match another foe.And sweep through the deep,While the stormy winds do blow.While the stormy winds do blow.While the stormy winds do blow.While the battle rages long and loudAnd the stormy tempests blow.The spirits of your fathersWill start from every wave ;The deck it was their field of fame—The ocean was their grave.Where Blake and mighty Nelson fellYour manly hearts will glow.As you sweep through the deep,While the stormy winds do blow.While the stormy winds. &rc.The meteor-flag of EnglandMust yet terrific burn.Till the stormy night of war depart.And the star of peace return.11Then U> our faithful marinersThe soeial can shall flow,Who swept through the deep,While the stonny winds did blow.While the stormy winds did blow.While the stormy winds did blow,While the battle raged long and loud,And the stonns of war did blow.CONNEL AND FLORA,Dark lowers the night o’er the wide stormy main,Till mild rosy morning rise cheerful againAlas ! morn returns to revisit the shore ;But Connel returns to his Flora no more.For see o’er yon mountain the dark cloud of death,And Connel’s lone cottage lies low on the heath,Whilq bloody and pale, on a far distant shore.He lies to return to his Flora no more.Ye light-fleeting spirits that glide o’er yon steep !Oh ! would ye but waft me across the wild deep !There fearless I’d mix in the battle’s loud roar;I’d die with my Connel, and leave him no more !THE WAY-WORN TRAVELLER.Faint and wearily, the way-worn travellerPlods uncheerily, afraid to stop ;Wandering drearily, a sad unravellerOf the mazes t’ ward the mountain’s top.12Doubting, fearing, while his course he’s steering)Cottages appearing, as he’s nigh to drop ;O ! how briskly then the way-worn travellerTreads the maizes t’ward the mountain’s top.Though so melancholy day has pass’d by,’Twould be folly now to think on’t more;Blythe and jolly he the cag holds fast by.As he’s sitting at the goat-herd’s door:Eating, quaffing—at past labours laughing—Better far, by half, in spirits than beforeO ! how merrily the rested travellerSeems, while sitting at the goat-herd’s door.BUY A BROOM.From Teuchland I come, with my light wares allladen.To dear, happy England, in summer’s gay bloom ;Then listen, fair lady and young pretty maiden,Oh buy of the wandering Bavarian a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !O buy of the wandering Bavarian a broom !To brush away insects that sometimes annoy you ;You’ll find it quite handy to use night and day.And what better exercise, pray, can employ you,Than to sweep all vexatious intruders away.Buy a broom ! buy a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !O buy of the wandering Bavarian a broom!13rEre winter comes on, for sweet home soon departing,M y toil for your favours again I’ll resume ;And while gratitude’s tear in my eye-lid is starting.Bless the time that in England I cried buy a broom.Buy a broom ! buy a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !O buy of the wandering Bavarian a broom !THE HIGHLAND MINSTREL BOYI ha’e wander’d mony a summer night,Alang the banks of Clyde,Beneath the moon’s sweet silv’ry light,Wi’ Mary at my side.A summer was she to mine e’e.An’ to my heart a joy ;An’ weel she lo’ed to roam wi’ me.Her Highland Minstrel boy.I ha’e wander’d mony a summer night, &c.Oh, her presence could on every starNew brilliancy confer ;And I thought the flowers were sweeter farWhen they were seen with her.Her brow was calm as sleeping sea.Her glance was full o’ joy ;And, oh, her heart was true to me.Her Highland Minstrel boy.Oh, her presence could on every star, 8cc.I ha’e play’d to ladies, fair and gay.In mony a southrou hall;But there was one far, far away,A world alwtve them all.14And now, tho’ weary years have Hed,I think wi’ moumfu’ joyUpon the time when Mary wedHer Highland Minstrel boy.I ha’e play’d to ladies, fair and gay, &c.O ARE YOU SLEEPIN’ MAGGIE.O are you sleepia’ MaggieO are you sleepin’ MaggieLet me in, for loud the linn.Is roarin’ o’er the warlock craigUMirk and rainy is the night.No a starn in a’ the carry,Lightnings gleam athwart the lift.An’ winds drive wi’ winters furyFearfu’ soughs the boor tree bank,The rifted wood roars wild an’ dreary,Loud the iron yate does clank.An’ cry o’ howlets males me eerie.O are ye sleepin’ Maggie, &c.boon my breath I dauma speak.For fear I rouse your waukrife DaddyCauld’s the blast upon my cheek,O rise, rise my bonny Lady.O are ye sleepin’ Maggie, fee.She op’t the door, she let him in.He cuist aside his dreepin’ plaidie;"Blaw your warst ye rain an’ win’,Since Maggie now I’m in aside ye.’15Now since ye’er wankin’ Maggie *Now since ye’re wankin’ Maggie !What care I for howlets cry,For boor—tree hank, or warlock craigieBRUCE’S ADDRESS.Scots, wha ha’e \vi’ "Wallace hied ;Scots, wham Bruce has aften ledWelcome to your gory bed.Or to victory!Now’s the day, an’ now’s the hour!See the front of battle lour;See approach proud Edward’s pow’r,Chains an’ slavery !Wha will he a traitor knave ?Wha can fill a coward’s grave ?Wha sae base as he a slave ?Coward, turn an’ flee !Wha for Scotland’s king an’ law,Freedom’s sword will strongly draw l"Freeman stand, or freeman fa’Caledonian, on wi’ me.By oppression’s woes and pains;By your sons in servile chains ;We will drain our dearest veins.But they diall he free.Lay the proud usurpers low;Tyrants fall in ev’ry foe;Liberty’s in every blow !Let us do or die !16THE TRUMPET SOUNDS A VICTORY.He was famed for deeds of amis.She a maid of matchless channs ;Now to him her love imparts ;One pure flame pervades both hearts ;Honour calls him to the field,Love to conquest now must yield.“ Sweeet maid!” he cries, “again. I’ll come to thee,When the glad trumpet sounds a victory !”Battle now with fury glows !Hostile blood in torrents flows !His duty tells him to depart,She press’d her hero to her heart.And now the trumpet sonnds to arms.Amid the clash of war’s alarms.“ Sweet maid !” he cries, &c.IIo with love and conquest burns,Doth subdue his mind by turns,Death the soldier now enthralls !With his wounds the hero falls !She disdaining war’s alarms.Rush’d and caught him in her arms.“ O death !” he cried, “ thou’rt welcome now to me;For, hark ! the glad trumpet sounds a victory.”HAUD AWA’ FRAE ME, DONALD,Haud awa, bide awa,Haud awa frae me, Donald;What care I for a’ your wealth,An’ a that ye can gi’e, Donald ?rrI wadna lea' my lowland ladFor a’ your goud an’ gear, Donald;Sae talc’ your plaid, and o’er the hill,An’ stay nae langer here, Donald.Hand awa, hide awa, &c.My Jamie is a gallant youth,I lo’e hut him alane, Donald ;And in honnie Scotland’s isle.Like him there is nane, Donald.Haud awa, hide awa,Hand awa frae me, Donald ;What care I for a your wealth,An’ a’ that ye can gi’e Donald ?He wears nae plaid, nor tartan hose.Nor garters at his knee, Donald;But oh ! he wears a faithfu’ heart.And love hlinks in his e’e, Donald.Sae haud awa, hide awa,Come nae nair at e’en, Donald;I wadna break my Jamie’s heart.To he a Highland queen, Donald.HE’S OWER THE HILLS THAT 1LO’E WEEL.CHORUS.He’s ower the hills that I lo’e weel.He’s ower the hills we darena name,He’s ower the hills ayont Dumhlane,Wha soon will get his welcome hame.18My father’s gone to fight for him,My brithers winna bide at hame.My nlither greets and prays for themAnd ’deed she thinks they’re no to blame.He’s ower the hills, &cThe whigs may scoff, and the whigs may jeer |But, ah ! that love maun he sincereWhich still keeps true whate’er betide,An’ for his sake leaves a’ beside.He’s ower the hills, &c.His right these hills, his right these plains {O’er Highland hearts secure he reigns.What lad’s e’er did, our laddies will do ;Were I a laddie, I’d follow him too.He’s ower the hills, &c.Sae noble a look, sae princely an air,Sae gallant and hold, sae young and sae fair;Oh ! did ye hut see him, ye’d do as we’ve done;Hear him but ance, to his standard yon’d run.He’s ower the hills, &c.DAME DURDEN.Dame Durden kept five serving girls,To carry the milking pail.She also kept five lab’ring men,To use the spade and flail.’Twas Moll and Bet, and Doll, and Kate,And Dorthy Draggletail,And John and Dick, and Joe and Jack,And Humphrey with hs flail.19Twas John kiss’d Dolly, and Dick hiss’d Bfttty,And Joe kiss’d Molly, and Dorthy DraggletaU,And vitty was a charming maid.To carry the milk-pail.IU • “ t- • ^ ■Dame Durden in the mom so soon.She did begin to bawl,To rouse her servant maids and men,She did most loudly call.’Twas Moll and Bet, &c.’Twas on the mom of Valentine,The birds began to prate.Dame Durden’s servant maids and men.They all began to mate.’Twas Moll and Bet, &c.O’ER THE MUIR AMANG THEHEATHER.Comin’ through the craigs o’ Kyle,Amang the bonnie blooming lieatherjThere I met a bonnie lassie,Keeping a’ her ewes thegither.O’er the muir amang the heather,O’er the muir amang the heatherThere I met a bonnie lassieKeeping a’ her ewes thegither.Says I, my dear, where is thy harne ?In muir, or dale, pray tell me whither ?Says she, I tend the fleecy flocksThat feed amang the blooming heather.O’er the muir, &o.20" '" I J * * Jf j ^We laid us down upon a bank,Sae warm and sunnie was the weather;She left her flocks at large to roveAmang the bonny blooming heather.O’er the muir, &c.While thus we lay she sang a sang,Till echo rang a mile and farther.And aye the burden o’ the sang,Was o’er the muir amang the heather.O’er the muir, &c.She charm’d my heart, and aye sinsyneI couldna think on ony ither:By sea and sky she shall be mine !The bonnie lass amang the heather.O’er the muir, &c.MARCH TO THE BATTLE FIELD.March to the battle field.The foe is now before us ;Each heart is freedom’s shield,And heaven is smiling o’er us.The woes and pains, the galling chains.Which kept our spirit under.In proud disdain we’ve broke again,And tore each link asunder.March to the battle field, &c.Who, for his country brave,Would fly from the invader;Who, his base life to save.Would traitor-like degrade her ?March to the battle field, &o.21Our hallow’d cause, our home and laws,'Gainst tyrant power sustaining.We’ll gain a crown of bright renown.Or die our rights maintaining.• March to the battle field, &c.BANKS OF ALLAN WATER.On the banks of Allan water.When the sweet spring time did fall,Was the Miller’s lovely daughter.Fairest of them all.For his bride a soldier sought her,And a wining tongue had he;On the banks of Allan water,None so gay -as she.On the banks of Allan water.When brown Autumn spread its store.There I saw the Miller’s daughter;But she smiled no more.For the summer grief had brought her,And her soldier false was he ,On the banks of Allan water.None so sad as she.On the banks of Allan water.When the winter snow fell fast.Still was seen the Miller’s daughter.Chilling blew the blast.But the Miller’s lovely daughter.Both from cold and care was free—On the banks of Allan water.There a corse lay she !22UP IN THE MORNING EARLY.Up in the morning’s no for me,Up in the morning early;When a the hills are cover’d wi* tmaw, •I’m sure it’s winter fairly.Oauld blaws the wind frae east to west.The drift is driving sairly;Sae loud and shrill’s I hear the blast.Pm sure it’s winter fairlyUp in the morning &c.Fhe birds sit chittering on the thorn,A’ day they fare but sparelyAnd lang’s the nicht frae e’en to mornI’m sure it’s winter fairly.Up in the morning, &c.THE BANKS O’ BOON.Ye banks and braes o’ bonnie Boon,How can ye bloom sae fresh and fair!How can ye chant, ye little birds.And I sae weary fu’ o’ care !Thou’lt break my heart, thou warbling bird.That wantons through the flowering them ;Thou minds me of departed joys,Beparted, never to return.Oft ha’e I roved by bonnie Boon,To see the rose and woodbine twine tAnd hear ilk bird sing o’ its love.As fondly sae did I o’ mine23ip i11 .|h 'SI .f. 1ftl.ai**> t■81Cl .02IS .£gtS .Wi’ lightsome heart I pu’d a rose,Fu’ sweet upon its thoiiiy tree ;But my fause lover stole my rose.And left the sharpest thorn wi’ me•   • &. !j/\.*    «. aarwS ©ifFRULE BRITANNIA.eifTWhen Britain first at heaven’s command,Arose from out the azure main ;This was the charter of our land,And guardian angels sung this strain-Rule Britannia, Britannia rule the waves,Britons never will be slavesThe nations not so blest as thee,Must in their turn to tyrants fall;While thou shalt flourish great and free,The dread and envy of them all;Rule Britannia, Britannia rule the waves,Britons never will bo slaves.• • • • t'ii'u’iiKi/1 'fuqvdri a-/ at, ()*     •vjjjbA s'af-’j• * . ,'no.l: iV a .“Iiuji:‘dFINIS.   .aomnCi eurjjQ• •. tiodtueH e: j par..,u. iii;M odJ is'O* * • • • »btai I oIjj«a m!j oj ,Ioxel/I• * • naif/. i.>* • • • • huimo;.'l edt i;i !rIa• • ^ • * * . tnoolJ io ziln* • • w * ^ , ^uninitfriclCONTENTS.' •m 'iw mo ’i t.tj fcoAAlice Gray, The Swiss Boy, ........The Anchor’s Weighed,  The Boatie Rows,    .Begone Dull Care, 6Marry for Love and Work for Siller, . . 7Home, Sweet Home, . . . . . . .8The Minute Gun at Sea,   8The Light Guitar, ........ 9Ye Mariners of England, 10Connel and Flora,   .11The Way-worn Traveller, 11Buy a Broom, 12'Hie Highland Minstrel Boy, 13O are ye Sleepin’ Maggie,  14Bruce’s Address, 15The Trumpet Sounds a Victory, . . . .16Hand awa’ Frae me, Donald, . . . . 16He’s owre the Hills that I lo’e weel, ... 17Dame Durden,  18O’er the Muir amang the Heather, ... 19March to the Battle Field, 20Banks of Allan Water,   .21Up in the Morning Early, 22nks of Doon, 22Britannia, ........ 23sut