THEFAMOUS NEGRO ROBBER,ANDTERROR OF JAMAICA,OR THBHISTORY AND ADVENTURESOPJACK MANSONG.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.VHISTORY AND ADVENTURES, ■t.-itMr. » i ' • s . . •JACK MANSONG.sszjrvTrm. a.:c Tuoi-mTins daring marauder, whose name was Mansong,was a native of Africa, of a bold and martialappearance, possessing a keen and penetrating eyeThe steadiness of his manner, and firm intrepidityof his mind’, commanded tlie reverence of those who,like him, weilded the servile spade; and the over¬seers of the plantation would tremble as they smotehim for neglect of duty.This very extraordinary man, unaided by eitheraccomplice or associate, bid defiance for nearly twoyears to the military and civil power of the islandof Jamaica. .Onowauhee, the father of our hero, dwelt at Sim-biug, in the interior of Africa, adjoining the countryof the Moors. Simbing is scarcely a day’s journeyfrom Jarra, a large Moorish town situated at the-bottom of some rocky hills. He was in the declineof years; and his bullocks were frequently stolenby the Moorish robbers, who came in large parties,and plundered the peaceful inhabitants of their:property.Mansong was now grown to manhood; and hetook upon himself fhe , protection of his father’scattle. One day a large party of the Moors camedown, and drove before them the finest amongst therds. The people stood at the doors of their hutsrighted, hut Mansong lifted high his javelin, andick it to the heart of the leader of the Moorish; bbers, who fell dead upon the plain,i1 The Moors were determined to resent this outrage,i I they termed it, and sent back the javelin ; then was good, and Mansong fell to the ground,; ithed in his blood . The inhabitants set up a loudI ream, and the Moors drove off. Mansong was:.'nc to his father’s hovel upon the shoulders of hisuntrymen. When they had conveyed him to hist, and laid him upon a mat, all the spectators;med in lamenting his fate, by screaming andIwling in a most piteous manner. Onowauhee■e his hair in the bitterness of his grief; andting himself on the cold body of his son, expiredbight of his bewildered spectators!'ansong was not, however, deprived of life. TheMin had pierced his breast, and a great effusion•oidood succeeded. This occasioned a fainting fit,r |m which he shortly recovered. The astonishedoliple made frantic gestures in token of their joy,ic .l, being of the Mahometan persuasion, exclaimed,i .a ifla et ella Mahomet rasowl allabi.”—“ There1 nit one God, and Mahomet is his prophet.”if Our hero was soon perfectly recovered, andv jived to revenge the death of his father, whom• for a long time bewailed in the bitterness of filialjf. He collected his countrymen, and exhorted" m to rush upon the Moors and repair the lossesIly daily sustained ; but the people of Simbing!ld not be prevailed on.The fiery soul of Mansong was not to be defeateda cool refusal. Another opportunity soon pre-I ted itself; he then pictured to them the horrors[jjjl calamities they were daily exposed to, and again4exhorted them to revenge. The youths nowembraced the opportunity ; and Mansong led them1to join the king of Kaarta, who was then wagingwar with the perfidious king of Bambarra, who,prompted by ambition, had availed himself of aimost frivilous pretext to declare war against Daisy,,king of Kaarta.By means of some desertions, Daisy’s army wasnot so numerous as he expected; and when encampedat Kemmoo, the whole number of effective men didnot exceed 4000; but being men of spirit and enter¬prise, could be depended on. Mansong with hissmall troop from Simbing, had joined them, anditheir appearance gave joy to Daisy. Mansong had j,trained his heroes in the art of war, and had taught Ifthem evolutions which the king was unacquainted }with, and he embraced, with all the fervour of his ;heart, so powerful an ally. Mansong undertook thediscipline of the men of Kaarta, and he was unani- (mously chosen Commander-in-Chief.Daisy now defied the malice of the powerful kingof Bambarra, placing confidence in the valour oithose few troops that were scarcely one-fourth the >number of his foes, who now appeared before the \town of Kemmoo. Mansong led Ids men to the Ifield ; but the Kaartans grew faint when they saw ithe numbers they had to oppose ; Mansong eucour-11aged them by example, and the slaughter com- hmenced. The Bambarrans were mown down like iblades of grass ; but their numbers were great, andas often as a chasm was effected, it was filled with |»fresh troops.—They visibly gained ground ; and ailength the men of Kaarta fled witli great slaughter tMansong now, with a corps of reserve, rushed iupon the foe, and bore down all before his conquer I.ing arm. This encouraged the troops of Kaarta,)5.who appeared again in the field, aiding those ofBimbing, headed by the victorious Mansong, whorought like a tiger; his valour inspired his ownmen, struck terror to the heart of his foes, and hecame off victorious!When he returned from the fight, Daisy, withears of gratitude received him into his arms, andailed him as a son. The Bambarrans retreatedi irom Kemmoo, but in three days again appearedt lefore the walls with redoubled force. Mansong' mew it would be madness to resist them now, andretreated to Joko, a town north-west of Kemmoo,1'hither he was followed by the king of Bambarra ;i ilansong then with his small troops took refuge ina tie strong town of Gedingooma, situated in a hilly(ountry, surrounded with high walls of stone, androw acted on the defensive, harrassing the enemya y skirmishes, &c., while they laid siege to thea »wn.D. The king of Kaarta had a beautiful daughter,mimed Zaldwna ; the soul of Mansong, though firediliith martial glory, could not resist those pleasing■; tnsations her presence inspired: during the siegewV Gedingooma, Mansong employed the hours in:iliich his presence was not required in the dischargeof those important duties which his situation asnipmmander-in-Chief required, in conversation withi f s beloved Zaldwna. Her charms had entangledlie heart of Mansong; and she too felt an equalmssion for the hero whose valour had saved herinnily from ruin.i The grateful king of Kaarta with pleasure beheldlieir mutual attachment; he had already hailedg nan song as his son ; he sanctioned their loves, andnomised to join their hands as soon as peace shouldrain be restored to his country. But, alas! such6happiness was not Mansong’s lot, that ideal felicitywas never realised.Mansong, now tired of this shilly-shally fighting,issued with a large body of men from the town,gave battle to the Bambarrans, and defeated thenliwith great loss. The king now sent to Daisy, to:treat for peace ; and this worthy man, who loved!1the welfare of his people, immediately sent Mansong,accompanied by a small detachment of officers, toadjust the preliminaries. The Bambarrans, whowere as eager as the Kaartans to have peace restored,loudly huzzaed as Mansong with his small troopentered Sigo, the town where the king waited telreceive them. Lubeg, the king of Bambarra, saw!with a joyful eye the leader of the Kaartans before!him ; and instantly devised a hellish scheme to ruiijhis foe, and terminate the military glory of th(Mgreat and warlike Mansong.Peace being now agreed upon, joyful festivitjlireigned throughout Bambarra ; and the ambassaj -dors were requested to stay three days at SigftIMansong, although he wished to convey the new!so eagerly sought for by his royal master, readil'l'acquiesced ; and Lubeg furnished them for threjidays with sumptuous entertainment. On the ev jof the last, they were all invited to the palace, am jthe liquors of Bambarra were placed upon the board ibut Mansong excused himself, and requested permission to prosecute his journey to Kaarta. Lubeg »finding no other alternative, gave the signal, an: ia large party rushed in. “We are betrayed,. >exclaimed Mansong, drawing his sword, and th 'Kaartans, following his example, fought most furously; but overpowered witli numbers, they wei 'obliged to submit to their perfidious foes. Mansombwith a gleaming sabre, like a tiger in the toil! cIarting on the foremost, cleft him to the ground,'he sabres of his adversaries clashed over his head,ut he heeded not death, and struggled hard toIreak the chains that encircled him. He still{ught, and his blood streamed around, till at length•ercome, he fell covered with wounds, and four of■ is adversaries lay dead beside him ; the othersjiund up his wounds, and sent him with the rest[ his party to the slave merchants.Four hundred slaves were offered by Daisy foransong’s release, but the offer was rejected ; andthe bank of the Gambia, they were sold to anglish Captain bound for Jamaica.—On theiriyage they experienced all those horrors peculiar *confinement in a slave ship,id On their arrival, Mansong, whom we shall in•nture call Jack, that being the name given him onhis arrival at Jamaica, with his fellow slaves, were< isposed of according to lot. He was then branded'|i the breast, and he smiled upon the red hot ironI it seared him ; but he had vowed revenge, andi died upon the God of his country to witness hisjfws of vengeance on the European race. He hadifeen received the lash of his employers on his bareIijoulders ; and as the blood trickled down his back,did he resolve that for every drop, a white man’sb ml should sprinkle the plain !Eighteen long tedious months had passed sincewas dragged from his native country, from hisends, and from his betrothed bride, the beautifull ldwna—eighteen long tedious months had heardiks groans ; and Jack devised how to lash his per-. tutors with a rod of iron.At this period the island of Jamaica was greatlyfested with the professors of Obi, which causedr e most dangerous and fatal consequences among8the negroes. The obi was a system of witchcra fefreligiously believed in by all the negroes. Mwonder then that the heroic soul of Jack became i•prey to this weakness. He confidently hoped thathe possession of an obi would at once render hinfeared by his fellow slaves, and secure his vengeanC'ion the Europeans. He therefore sought the moKeminent professor of the art.Amalkir, the obian practitioner, dwelt in a loatljsome cave far removed from the inquiring eye cthe suspicious whites in the Blue Mountains; hwag old and shrivelled; a disorder had contractlall his nerves, and he could scarcely crawl. Hicave was the dwelling-place or refuge of robbers^he encouraged them in their depredations, and gav Ifthem obi, that they might fearlessly rush w'her [.danger stood. This obi was supposed to make theninvulnerable to the attacks of the white men, amthey placed implicit belief in its virtues.Jack approached his cave with a reverential awe: fhe sought his friendship, and Amalkir engaged tset all the slaves of every plantation in the island i;dreadful commotion. Jack, charmed with the planfervently wished its speedy execution ; he now nlonger groaned under the heavy burthens of th |day ; the sweat that chased his brows, or the erne iblows of his task-master, created no pain : he had; ibalm at heart, which made his daily toil the lightei ;Two summers had now elapsed since Jack arrival iat Jamaica; and the slaves who were excited t! .rebellion by Amalkir, were firmly attached to him iThey had, by stealth, provided themselves wit!arms and ammunition, which they concealed in th' iBlue Mountains. Nothing was now wanting, am ithey only waited the moment to set the plantation£>n fire, to plunge the dagger in the hearts oi uiropeans, and lay that fertile island in waste and. iiin. Jack, in imagination, already beheld thei i:ene, and smiled on its horrors,i! On the tenth of February, 1780, it was resolvedf y this desperate band, headed by a more desperatehd determined leader, to brandish around thei,liming sword of vengeance. The evening beforesat fixed for the execution of their massacre, thef jiiefs of the insurrection met at the cave of Amal-'; and it was agreed among them, that the signalbe given, was the firing of a gun.Thus resolved, they separated; and now the event-;i il moment dawned! the heavy bell struck thenlidnight hour of twelve, and the expectation of the)M3groes, waiting the approaching insurrection, wasdi the pitch. At length the awful clock warnedDiem of the time. Jack listened to the solemn toll,)•/; from the vapoured sepulchre it struck upon his; 'hr, and whispered the bloody design with infinite©light! his heart swelled with joy and hope ofK«:ctory.i At this moment a gun was fired, and a horrid> til ensued. The slaves were in arms ; they soonIsembled in a line at the foot of the Blue Moun-ins, and Jack led them to the carnage.All the plantations were soon aroused, and theIrm bell rung ; but ere the Europeans could beiused from their torpidity, Crawford Town wasa blaze. The smoke ascended in volumes, min-1 ed with the devouring flames.—Screams of thei! fenceless, and groans of the dying, assailed theirrs.1At this juncture a troop of Maroon soldiers ar-red ; the rebellious negroes stood their fire, andn with fury on the guns of their assailants, whorjjrned their backs and fled.1ftIt was now five o’clock, anfi the sun had risen ;the streaks of darkness were all dispelled, and morn¬ing beheld the havoc which shameless night hadaided. Jack, now aware that the colony wouldproceed against him, called off his troops, and pre¬pared for the fight.The Governor sent 500 choice Maroons in pur¬suit of those rebels. They met and fought. Thenegroes, as before, rushed upon their guns, but theMaroons firing as they retreated, kept them at bayand made great slaughter. Jack in vain encouragedIns men, he could not rouse them to the combat,and they fled in every direction.Next day the Governor published a proclamation,offering a free pardon to such of the insurgents aswould return to their duty. This had the desiredeffect; for they all returned except Jack, who stilldetermined to harass the Europeans. He againrepaired to the cave of Amalkir, who hung an obihorn about his neck, rare for its supposed virtues.Dr. Mosley, in his Treatise on Sugar, says—“ Isaw the obi of the famous negro robber, Three-Fingef’d Jack, the terror of Jamaica, in 1780. TheMaroon who slew him brought it me. It consistedof a goat’s horn, filled with a compound of gravedirt, ashes, the blood of a black cat, and human fat,all mixed into a kind of paste : a cat’s foot, a driedtoad, a pig’s tail, a slip of virginal parchment ofkid-skin, with characters marked with blood on it,were also in his obian bag. These, with a keensabre, and two guns, were all his obi; with which,and his courage in descending into the plains, andplundering to supply his wants, and his skill inretreating into difficult fastnesses among the moun¬tains, commanding the only access to them, wherenone dared to follow him, he terrified the inhabit-11i j auts, and set the civil power and the neighbouringi militia of the island at defiance, for nearly twos | years.It would be tedious to enumerate all the exploitsof this famous robber ; we shall therefore only relatea few of the most prominent. One day, as Jacks i was reconnoitring on the top of Lebanus, he beheldia negro beneath, armed, and bearing provisions.Jack rushed down the mountains, and attacked him.This negro was an intimate of Jack’s in his days of: | slavery ; and Jack would now acknowledge nofriendship, but commanded him to deliver. Qua-j! shee, who was also bold and resolute, refused ; Jackt drew his sabre ; Quashee pulled a pistol from hisii girdle, fired, and Shbt off two of his antagonist’sfingers, from which he acquired the name of Three-Finger’d Jack. This enraged Jack, and he usedhis sword in savage fury. Quashee received severalwounds ; and no longer capable of maintaining thecontest, he fled ; while Jack took charge of thei booty, and retired to his cave.Another time Jack was sorely driven, having hadi no food for some days. There stood a plantationnot far from Lebanus, the proprietor of which hadI given his slaves a holiday, it being his daughter’sbirth-day, and they were making merry. Jack be¬held with gloating eye, from his retreat, the festivityof the assembled, and trusting to the terror of hisname, he seized a musket and descended. Whenhe came near, he hid himself behind the entwinedbranches of a fig-tree, and taking a good aim, heshot the presider of the feast, who instantly droppeddead. The negroes were struck with a general pa¬nic ; and Jack appeared among them. Not onewas bold enough to seize him ; he held up his three-finger’d hand, and they all fell upon their faces to12the ground ; then, seizing as much booty as hecould dispose of, fled to his cave.The slaves recovering from their fright, ran tothe planter, and informed him of the appearance ofThree-Finger’d Jack. He was as much surprisedas themselves, though differently instigated ; theirsurprise was mingled with excessive fear ; his wasat the daring impudence of this bold marauder, whocould assume courage enough to venture beforeseven hundred negroes.Jack having continued his ravages for nearly ayear. Captain Orford, a young Englishman of goodbirth, and a most amiable disposition, had come overto Jamaica, with a party of soldiers, who were to begarrisoned there, llosa, the daughter of Mr Chap¬man, an eminent planter in Maroon’s Town, hadcast a favourable eye upon Orford, who also affec¬tionately beheld her.Mr. Chapman, who had much at heart the hap¬piness of his daughter, finding that Orford reallyloved her, consented to their speedy nuptials. Thelovers were transported with the joyful presage offuture happiness ; but their joy was soon dampedby an unexpected event.Captain Orford, unacquainted with fear, or thetrue character of our hero, frequently traversed theBlue Mountains, accompanied by his favorite negroboy Tuckey, to enjoy the breeze which lightlyfanned the mountains’ tops. One day, thoughtlessof danger, he proceeded till he came near the mouthof Jack’s cave. Jack was seated upon a crag; whono sooner saw Orford than he leaped down. Tuckeygave a loud scream, and Orford preparing for thecombat, drew his sword ; Jack smiled upon himwith contempt, and lifting up his gun by the muz¬zle, knocked him down with the butt-end.Tuckey, wild with terror, fled ; and Jack seizingI the senseless body of Orford, slung it down the1 mountain’s side. Tuckey was proceeding home¬ward, when a groan struck his ear—he listened—another groan succeeded—and the compassionateboy wished to learn from whence they came.Winding down the intricacies of the mountain, the) I body of Captain Orford arrested his step! HisI master was not dead, but very much bruised, andhis skull fractured. Tuckey raised him from theground, and with much difficulty bore him to theplantation of Mr. Chapman. Rosa was in an agonyof grief when she beheld the helpless situation ofOrford. She dressed his wounds, and constantlyattended him in his illness, and he soon recovered ;i for wounds are cured to a miracle in the West Indiesi in any part of the body, except the legs, where theyi are seldom cured.This fresh proof of Jack’s valour spread his fameover all parts of the island. He was said to bethe head of a gang of negro robbers, which wasfalse ; for he had no associates.Captain Orford was now perfectly recovered; andMr. Chapman, eager to have the marriage solem¬nized, fixed the day so earnestly looked for by theyoung lovers. To dispel the time, he proposed avariety of entertainments, and the next day wasappointed for a shooting party. The morning wasfine ; and the party, consisting of Mr. Chapman,1 Captain Orford and his boy Tuckey, with severalplanters and their servants, proceeded along thebanks of the river Morant. Near the bay the gamewas pretty fair ; Captain Orford, being too eagerafter the game he and his boy were unfortunatelyseparated from the rest of the company. Theysprung a covey of wild fowl ; the Captain fired and14brought clown his mark ; the bird falling on a rockthat o’ertopped the sea, Tuckey ran up a cliff to |save the game. Jack, who was out in search of prey,met and recollected him, and without further parley,threw him into the ocean. Fortunately a boat wassailing by, and, perceiving the transaction the crewtook him on board.Jack now observing Captain Orford, he levelledhis gun, and shot him in the back. Orford preparedto return the fire, but Jack sprung upon him, andwounded him with his sabre. Orford immediatelyfell, bathed in blood. He being very weak, Jacktook him on his back and conveyed him to his cave.Mr. Chapman, missing Captain Orford, returnedwith his party to search for him ; when they cameto the bay, they found his hat and gun lying on theground. Immediately suspecting the disaster, hespread the alarm, and caused an instant pursuit,but without effect. Jack having eluded their search,Mr. Chapman, absorbed in grief, returned home.On his arrival, he was met by Tuckey; this for amoment assuaged his grief; but when the boy re¬lated the disaster, his agony increased. He fearedto tell his daughter the melancholy circumstance,and dreaded the discovery.Rosa perceiving the company returning, wentwith a joyful heart and smiling countenance, to meether father ; but seeing his melancholy air, she wasalarmed. She inquired after his health, and thecause of his grief, but received no answer ; she theneagerly asked for her beloved Orford ; but the awfulsilence and sorrow which appeared on every coun¬tenance convinced her of the cause ; and she imme¬diately fainted away. She was borne to her cham¬ber, where she continued several days without takingany refreshment; and her life was despaired of.If)! Fortunately a favourable and sudden change tookplace, for which neither her physician nor attend¬ants could assign a cause, and she visibly recovered.Mr. Chapman was blessed by this joyful change ;I he saw with transport the colour again glow on thei cheek of his beloved daughter ; he was resolved thatI the day of her recovery should be a joyful holidayto the whole plantation. He was really a good man,and very generally beloved; the slaves readilyobeyed so kind a master; and his plantation wasi esteemed the most thriving in the island. And wefeel no hesitation in asserting, that if every planterIin Jamaica and the West Indies were to follow hishumane example, it would not only tend to theincrease of their own private wealth, but the goodof this country at large ; and it is indisputably asicasy for a master to gain the love of his slaves, astheir hatred.One morning, Mr. Chapman visited the apart-r ment of his daughter, expecting to find her much{recovered; but what his surprise to perceive herchamber window open, a sheet slung out, and oneend tied to the bed-post! Her clothes were on the>1 floor. He was transfixed in amaze ; but perceivingi a note lay on the table, he eagerly broke the seal,and read its heart-rending contents. It was ast follows“ Hear Father,Being no longer able to supportian existence without the partner of my soul, mybeloved Orford, I hope you will pardon this my firstact of disobedience. The conflict between filial dutyand love has been severe—but all-powerful love has« conquered. I am determined to search the moun¬tains and find out this Jack—this terror of ourIt)island—to try if he will give me him on whom my Isoul doats. Do not be uneasy on my account. IfI find him not, I shall return and die in the armsof the best of fathers. I can with safety seek thecave of this robber, as I have been informed, bythose who speak from experience, that he never willmolest a female. Adieu, my dear father.Rosa Chapman.”This imprudent step of Rosa’s had nearly provedfatal to her father. He loved his daughter with thegreatest affection, and a severe illness was the con¬sequence of her flight.Jack had now been nearly two years in the BlueMountains ; he had become the terror of the wholeisland, and rendered himself so obnoxious by hisdaily depredations, that Governor Darling found itnecessary to apply to his Majesty, to issue his royalproclamation, offering a reward to apprehend thisdaring robber. Accordingly, two proclamationswere issued, dated the 12th December, 1780, and15th January, 1781, offering a reward of two hun¬dred pounds for killing Jack, or taking him alive.The House of Assembly of the island of Jamaicaalso came to the resolution of giving their freedomto any slave, for whom they were to indemnify hisowner, and also freedom and pardon to any of hisaccomplices, who should kill and bring in the headand three-fingered hand of Jack, which was issuedimmediately after the first proclamation.In consequence of these offer’s, two resolute andbold negroes, named Quashee and Sam, both ofScots-Hall, Maroon Town, with a party of theirtownsmen, resolved to go in search of Jack. Qua¬shee before he set out, was christened, and hisname changed to James Reeder. The expedition1?commenced, and while this party are on their pur¬suit we shall return to Rosa, who had left herfather’s house, in search of her lover.The night was extremely dark when she took theresolution of descending from her chamber, to go insearch of her beloved Orford. She dressed herselfas a sailor-boy, to secure her from violence ; andthus equipped, she defied the inclemency of theweather. The passion which preyed on her heartdispelled her fear; and unintimidated she proceededto the woods.Rosa had repeatedly heard it said, that Jack’scave was near Mount Lebanus, somewhere amongthe chain of the Blue Mountains. Thither she pro¬ceeded. Faint and weary she was often obliged torest herself beneath the spreading fig-tree ; hertender limbs, unused to such excessive fatigue, sunkbeneath her ; her lips were parched with fever; butstill the lively colour revelled unfaded on her lovelycheek. The hope of recovering her beloved Orford,in whose absence life was insupportable, and thehappy presages of her soul making that wished-forevent as certain, supported her resolution, and madeher persevere with a courage rarely to be met within her sex, more especially when the peculiar deli¬cacy of her constitution is considered.By violent exertion she climbed the craggy steepthat overlooked Old Crawford Town, where stillwere visible the ravages of the fire. The evening-fast approached, and the dread thunder was heardto reverberate at a short distance. The dazzlinglightning played around, and the rain fell in torrentsdown the mountain’s side. Rosa saw a narrowdismal path, leading to a more dismal cave ; andshe entered the gloomy abode, where none but therobber or wretched in heart could dwell, The arched18vault, formed by the rough hand of nature, and theobnoxious vapours that assailed her, impressed herwith dismal fears. She dreaded to proceed, yet thestill more gloomy horrors that played around thecave’s mouth, impelled her to seek a refuge. Sheaccordingly bent her steps to the interior of thecave, where the chilly dew, hanging on the project¬ing crag, dropt upon her like ice, and froze hex-heart. She now came to the mouth of anotherdescent, which led still deeper into the gloomy abode;and, to her infinite surprise, beheld a taper burningbeneath! She uttered a faint scream, and felldown the rocky descent into the cave, where theglimmering light helped to lessen its gloom.Rosa lay for some time senseless ; her foreheadwas very much bruised, and her lovely tresses hungshrivelled on her face. At length she recovered tothe misery of her situation: she beheld with torturedeye, the frightful cave, which was hung ax-ound withthe skeletons of turtles, aligators, and other reptiles,enough to chill the female heart; but Rosa wasendowed with more courage than many of her sex.Three-Fingered Jack into whose cave she hadthus been precipitated, was out and prowling forfresh prey. At this critical juncture he returned,and descended into the cave by means of a ladder,while Rosa was viewing with terror the three-fing-ex-ed hand depicted on the wall. Jack no soonerbeheld a Eux-opean in his cave, than he seized oneof his muskets by the muzzle, and prepared to dashher brains out. Rosa fell upon her knees, and ex¬claimed, “ Mercy! mercy ! I am a woman!”—Jackdropt the weapon, and was perplexed ; for althoughhe was resolved to shew mercy to women, yet hehad also determined to put to death that beingwho should gain a knowledge of his cave.—The idea19: of his beloved Zaldwna recurred to his mind. “ Per¬haps," said he, “ at this moment she too may have: cause to implore for mercy!" and after some delib-: eration, he resolved that Rosa should not die : but: self-preservation demanded he should confine her in! the bowels of that rock her rashness had penetrated.Night was getting on apace. Jack was weariedi with the fatigues of the day; and after eating ofI the plaintain, of which the hungry Rosa partook,! he sunk into a sound sleep. Now Rosa conceivedJthe idea of making her escape ; she reconnoitredthe cave, and could find no means of extricating!l herself from her prison, but by the way she entered.I She was therefore hasting up the ladder by whichi Jack descended, when a dreadful groan assailed hers ear ; she stopt—another groan succeeded. Astou-i ished, she turned back, and hastening to the place1 from whence it proceeded, she opened the door ofi an inner cell, and beheld her Orford pale and bloody!She uttered a loud scream, and fainted. Thisi aroused Jack, who on discovering the cause, wasI about to put her to death ; but his passion abating,he thrust the helpless Orford farther into the cell,!' and locked the door; then taking the ladder, he1 ascended, and hung the key upon a projecting partof the rock, nearly thirty feet from the ground.Rosa was now perfectly recovered ; Jack seated heron a log which served him as a chair ; and tyingher hands together with a long cord, one end ofwhich he fastened to one part of the rock, andholding the other in his hand, he retired to his mat,placing the ladder beneath him, and sunk againinto a sound sleep.Rosa was now lost to all hope : she despaired ofeffecting her escape, or the release of her sufferinglover. Distracted at the thought, she knew not20what to do; the obstacles seemed insurmountable,and she gave up all as lost. The idea of Jack againawaking, and perhaps putting a period to the exist¬ence of her lover, for his attempting to escape,presented itself to her troubled mind—the agonyof thus losing her lover, and the dreadful situationshe saw him in, almost overcame her resolution.After some time spent in anxious thought, hopeilluminated her heart. Near where she sat wasplaced a table, on which stood a lighted taper ; andher only means was to consume the cord that boundher hands. Joyful at the idea, she drew the tablenearer with her feet, and holding her hands overthe light, burnt the cord. Now disengaged, shetied the end of the rope to the leg of the table; andfalling on her knees, implored Heaven to aid herescape, and that of her faithful lover.She returned to the cell wherein Orford wasconfined ; but her heart sunk within her, whenshe beheld it fastened by a large padlock, the keyof which she despaired of obtaining. After a longsearch, she cast her eye on it, and using severalineffectual efforts to get it down, she at length hap-penned to see a long stick, with which she unhungthe key, and it fell with a great noise. Jack wasaroused, but jerking the cord he held in his hand,found, as he supposed, his prisoner safe ; and sorenewed his slumber.Rosa now softly approached the cell where herlover was confined, and unlocked the door with thegreatest caution. Poor Orford fell senseless intoher arms : his wounds were not very great, but hewas faint for want of nourishment. She took upJack’s bottle of liquor, which was on the table, andpoured some of it down Ids throat, which greatlyrevived him. He no sooner discovered his preserver21than lie was about to make his grateful acknow¬ledgments ; but Rosa checked him.Fresh obstacles again presented themselves to im¬pede the escape of the lovers. Jack had secured theladder, and he lay beneath the mouth of his cave ;but this obstacle was soon obviated. They placedthe table astride him as cautiously as possible, onwhich they also put the stool. Rosa ascended, andOrford followed. As he stepped from the stool,down fell the apparatus.—Jack started up in a furyand fixed the ladder—but Orford drew it up, andleft him raging like a madman, vowing their imme¬diate destruction.He accordingly, urged by his fury, climbed upj the rock, and had nearly reached the top, whenOrford, with the but-end of a gun, which he hadtaken with him, knocked him down again. Stunnedwith the blow, he lay senseless while they effectedtheir escape.Being thus fortunately freed from the hotrors oftheir situation, they left Jack to his fate, and madeall possible haste to relieve the anxious fears of Mr.Chapman ; whom on their arrival they found con¬fined to his bed. Rosa’s father was overjoyed inagain beholding his beloved daughter, whose couragehad been the means of preserving the life of herlover, and restoring happiness to his family ; hesoon recovered.Soon afterwards the marriage of Captain Orfordand the amiable Rosa was solemnized with greatfestivity: the Captain sold his commission, andpurchased a large plantation near New CrawfordTown, where they live loving and beloved. Weshall now leave them happy in the society of eachother, and return to the party who set out in pursuitof Jack-22Reeder and >Sani, with their party, had beencreeping about in the woods for upwards of threeweeks, blockading, as it were, the deepest recesses oftho inaccessible parts of the island, where Jack, farremote from all human society, resided ; but theirsearch was in vain. Reeder and Sam, therefore,tired of this mode of war, resolved to proceed bythemselves in search of his retreat, and take himby storming it, or perish in the attempt. The negroboy, Tuckey, being a lad of great spirit, and a goodshot, was, however, determined to accompany them.“ These three whom I well knew,” says Dr.Moseley, “ left the rest of the party ; from whomthey had not been long separated, before they dis¬covered, by impressions among the weeds and bushes,that some person must have lately passed that way.They silently and cautiously followed their im¬pressions, and soon perceived a smoke.—They thenprepared for war.”Jack, after the escape of the two lovers, fearfulof being surprised in his cave, seldom visited it,straying about in different parts of the mountains.This caused him much anxiety ; he grew weary ofhis situation, and the forebodings of his soul whis¬pering mischief to his heart, caused an unusualheaviness on his spirits.Reeder and Sam, by following the impressions onthe grass, came upon Jack before he observed them.He was roasting plantains by a fire on the ground,at the mouth of the cave. Turning round, he dis¬covered his enemies ; and snatching his guns, heinstantly jumped up. His looks were fierce andterrible, and he told them he would kill theminstantly if they did not surrenderReeder undauntedly replied that his obi had nopower over him now, for he was christened, and his23name was no longer (^uashee. Jack knew Reeder,land as if paralysed, he let his two guns fall to thei ground, and drew his cutlass.Reeder and Sam were at first frightened at the;sight of him, they had to retreat, and consideredI that they were to grapple with the bravest, strongest,and most determined man in the island. But Jackwas also intimidated, for he had prophesied that\wMte obi would get the better of him ; and he wellknew, from experience, that the charm would losenothing in the hands of Reeder.Without farther parley, therefore, Jack, fearfulI of the event, with his cutlass in hand, threw him-ijself down the precipice at the back of the cave.—I Reeder attempted to shoot him, but his gun missedfire. Sam fired, and shot Jack in the shoulder ashe fell.Reeder, encouraged by the flight of Jack, andfearless of danger, with a cutlass in his hand, plungedheadlong down after him. The descent was nearly'thirty yards, and almost perpendicular. Both of! them preserved their weapons in the fall.Here was the sjaot on which two of the stoutest* hearts that perhaps were ever hooped within ribs,• began their bloody struggle. Having recoveredf their feet, the dreadful combat began, with all thet savage fierceness of two enraged lions.Tuckey, the little boy, who had been ordered to: keep out of harm’s-way, now reached the top of thei precipice, and during the fight shot Jack in the belly.Sam, who at a distance beheld the scene, coollyi descended the field of action. When he arrived atthe foot, Jack and Reeder had closed and tumbleddown another precipice, in which fall they both lost0 their weapons.Sam, now perceiving their situation, descended2-iafter them as quickly as possible, and also lost his j |cutlass among the bushes in getting down. 1He came up just in time to save Reeder; for |though they were without weapons, and their wounds !were deep and desperate, they were not idle. Jack jhad caught his antagonist by the throat with his]giant’s grasp.In this state of the battle, Tuckey, the little boy, jwho was armed with a pistol and cutlass, just cameup; he snapped his pistol at Jack, but it missed'fire. Sam, however, was umpire, and decided thefate of the day. He struck Jack on the head witha piece of rock. Stunned with the blow, he let gohis hold, and fell senseless.The three then rushed upon Jack ; with the cut- |lass they cut off his head and three-fingered hand, tand carried them in triumph to Morant Bay. Here jthey put their trophies in a pail of rum, and followedby a vast concourse of negroes, now no longer afraidof Jack’s obi, blowing their shells and horns, andfiring their guns in their rude manner, they pro¬ceeded to Kingston and Spanish Town, and claimed ■the rewards promised by the king’s proclamation, jand House of Assembly.The victorious Reeder was soon cured of his iwounds, and he and Sam having procured their ifreedom, and the promised reward, live happy ; and ;annually celebrate the joyful event.Thus fell Three-Fingered Jack, a man perhapsof as genuine courage as ever existed. His headand three-fingered hand are now preserved in spirits lfor the satisfaction of the curious.FINIS,