THEJf0MERRY TALESOF THEWISE MENorGOTHAM.“ Of merry books this is the chief,It is a purging PillTo carry ef all heavy grief.And make you laugh your filT.”STIRLING:FRINTED BY Wi MACNIE,Where is always kept on Sale, a choice and extensive AssoKment of Histories, Songs, Children's Story Books,School Books, &c., &c.THEMERRY TALESOF THEWise Men of Gotham.TALE I.There were two men of Gotham, andone of chem v»as going to Nottinghammarket to buy sheep, and both met to¬gether on Nottingham bridge. Wellmet, said one to the other, whither areyou going ? said he that came fromNottingham. Marry, said he that wasgoing thither, I am going to the mar¬ket to buy sheep. Buy sheep ! saidtb other, which way will you bringthem home ? Marry, said the other, Iwill bring them over this bridge. ByRobin Hood, said he that came fromNottingham, but thou shalt not. Bymy maid Margery, said the other, but3 'I will. You shall not, said the one:I will, said the other. Then they beattheir staves one against the other, andthen against the ground,as if a hundredsheep had been, betwixt them. Hold] there, said the one. Beware of mysheep leaping over the bridge, said theother. I care not, said the one. ‘ Theyshall all come this way, said the other.But they shall not, said the one. Then,isaid the other, if thou makest muchado, I will put my finger in thy mouth.A turd thou wilt, said the ocher. Andas they were in contention, anotherwise man that belonged to Gotham,came from the market with a sack ofmeal on hi§ horse; and seeing his neigh¬bours at strife about sheep and none^ ^betwixt them, said he, Ah fools ! willyou never learn wit! Then help me,continued he, to lay this sach upontny shoulder; they did so, and he'‘! ’vent to the side of the bridge andt hook out the meal into the river,paying, How much meal is there in myuack,neighbours ? Marry, said one,therei“ s none. Indeed, replied this wis*i ian,even so much wit is there in you4two heads to strive for that you havenot. Now which was the wisest ofthese three, I leave you to judge.TALE IhThere was a man of Gotham thatrode to the market with two bushels ofwheat, and lest his horse should bedamaged by carrying too great a bur¬den, he was determined to carry thecorn himself, upon his own neck, andstill kept riding upon his horse till hearrived at the end of his journey. NowI will leave you to judge which wasthe wisest, his horse or himself.TALE III.On a time the men of Gotham fainwould have pinn’d in the cuckoo, thatshe might sing all the year; and in themidst of the town they had a hedgemade round in compass, and got acuckoo and put her into it, and said,Sing here, nd thou shalt lack neithermeat nor drink all the year. The cuc-Jtoo,when she perceived herself encom-5passed within the hedge, dew away.A vengeance on her, said these wisemen, we did not make our hedge high, enough.TALE IV,There was a man of Gotham whowent to Nottingham market to selicheese ; and,going down the hill toNottingham bridge, one of his cheesesfell out of his wallet and ram down thehill. Whoreson, said the man, can yourun to the market alone ? I’ll now sendone after another. Then laying hiswalletdown, and taking out the cheeses,he tumbled them down the hill, oneafter another. Some ran into one bushand some into another. However, hecharged them to meet him at the mar¬ket place. The man went to the mar¬ket to meet with the cheeses, and stay¬ed till the market was almost over,then went and inquired at his neigh¬bours if they saw' his cheeses come tothe market ? Why, who should bringthem ? says one ; Marry, themselves,16said the fellow, they knew the wayvery well. A vengeance on them, theyrun so fast, I was afraid they wouldrun beyond the market; I am sure theyare by this time almost as far as York.So he immediately rode to York, butwas very much disappointed. And toadd to it, he never found nor heard ofone of his cheeses.TALE V.A man of Gotham bought, at Not¬tingham market, a trevet or barn iron ;and going home with it, his feet grewweary with the carriage. He set itdown, and seeing it had three feet,said, Whoreson, thou hast three feetand I but two; thou shalt bear me home,if thou wilt; so he set himself downupon it, and said to it, bear me as longas I have done thee, for if thou dost notthou shalt stand still for me. The manof Gotham seeing his trevet would notmove. Standstill,said he, in the Mayor’sname, and follow me if thou wilt; fol¬low me if thou wilt, and I can shew*7you the right way. When he wenthome, his wife asked where the trevetwas ? He said it had three legs, andhe had but two, and he had taught himthe ready way to his house, thereforehe might come himself if he would.Where did you leave the trevet ? saidthe woman. At Gotham bridge, saidhe. So she immediately ran and fetch¬ed the trevet herself; or otherwise shemust certainly have lost it on accountof her husband’s want of wit,TALE VI.A certain smith of Gotham had alarge wasp’s nest in the straw at theend of the forge, and there coming oneof his neighbours to have his horseshod, and the wasps being exceedingbusy, the man was stung by one ofthem. The man being grievously aff¬ronted, said, Are you worthy to keep aforge or not, to have men stung withthese wasps ? O neighbour, said thesmith, be content, and I will put tfrenifrom their nest presently. Immediate-8!y lie took a coulter, and heated it redhot, and thrust it into the straw at theend of his forge, and set it on fire,and burnt it up. Then, said the smith,I tojd thee I'd fire them out of theirnest.4TALE VIL'* »* " mOn Good Friday the men of Gothamconsulted together what to do withtheir white herrings, sprats, and saltfish, and agreed, that all such fishshould be cast into a pond or pool, inthe midst of the town,that the numberof themmndght increase the next year.Therefore every one that had any fishleft, did past them immediately intothe pond, Then said ooe, I have gottenleft so many red herrings. Well, saidanother, and I have left so many whit¬ings. Another immediately cried out.I have as yet gotten so many spratsleft. And, said the last, I have gottenso many salt fishes,'let them go togeth¬er in the great pond without any dis¬tinction, and we may be sure to fare9like lords the next year. At the be¬ginning of the next lent, they ionme-diately went about drawing the pond,imagining they should have the fish,but were much surprised to find no¬thing but a great eel. Ah ! said they,a mischief on this eel, for he hath eat¬en up our fish. What must we dowith him ? said one to the other. Killhim, said one ; chop him in pieces,said another. Nay, not so, said ano¬ther, but let us drown him. Be it ac-.cordingly so, replied they all. So theyimmediately went to another pond, andcast the eel into the water. Lie there,said these wise men, and shift for thy¬self, since you may not expect any helpfrom us. So they left the eel to bedrowned.TALE VIII.On a time the men of Gotham hadforgotten to pay their rents to theirlandlord ; so one said to the other, to¬morrow must be pay-day, by whom10can we send out money to our land¬lord ? So one said to them, I have thisday taken a share, and he may carry it,for he is very quick footed ; be it so,replied the rest; he shall have a letterand a large purse to put our money in,and we can direct her the ready way.When the letter was written and themoney put into a purse, they imme¬diately tied them about the fare’s neck,saying,You must first go to Loughbor¬ough, and then to Leicester, and atNewark is our landlord ; then com¬mend us to him, and there is his due.The hare, as soon as she got out oftheir hands, ran a quite contrary way.Some said thou must fir t go to Lough-Dorough; others said,let the hare alone,for she can tell a nearer way than thebest of us ; let her go.TALE IX.A man of Gotham, that went mow¬ing in the meadow,found a large grass¬hopper. He immediately threw downhis scythe, and ran home to his neigh-11hour, and said that the devil was atwork ia the field, and was hoppingamong the grass. Then was everyman ready with their clubs and staves,halberts and other weapons, to kill thegrasshopper. When they came nearto the place where the grasshopper was,said one to the other, let every mancross himself from the devil, for wewill not meddle with him. So they re¬turned again, and said, We are blestthis day that we werit no farther. Oye cowards! said he that left the scythein the meadow, help me to fetch myscythe. No, answered they, it is goodto sleep in a whole skin. It is muchbetter for thee to lose thy scythe thanto marr us all.TALE X.On a certain time there were twelvemen of Gotham that went to fish ; andsome waded in the water, and somestood on dry land. And in going home,one said to the other, we have ventur¬ed wonderfully in wading, I pray God12that none of us did come from hometo be drowned. Nay, marry, said oneto the other, let us see that,, for theredid twelve of us come out. Then theytold themselves, and every one told ele¬ven. Said the one to the other, thereis one of us drowned. They then wentback to the brook where they’d beenfishing and sought up and down forhim that was drowned, making greatlamentation. A courtier coming by,asked what it was they sought for, andwhy they were sorrowful ? Oh, saidthey, this day we went to fish in thebrook ; twelve of us came out together,and one is drowned. S-fid the courtier,tell how many there he of you. One' of them told eleven, but he did not tellhimself. "Well, said the courtier, whatwill you give me, and I will find thetwelfth man ? Sir, said they, all the mo¬ney we have got. Give me the money,said he. He then began with the first,and gave him a stroke over the should¬ers with his whip, which made himgroan, saying, here is one, and so heserved them all, and they groaned at13the matter. When he came to the last,he paid him well, saying, here is thetwelfth man ; God’s blessings on thyheart, said they, for finding our broth¬er.TALE XLA man of Gotham riding along the'highway, saw a cheese, so drew hisswoid and pricked it with the point, inorder to pick it up. Another man cameby, alighted, and picked it up, and rodeaway wich it. . The man of Gothamrides back to Nottingham to buy a longsword to pick up the cheese, and return¬ing to the place where it did lie, hepulled out his sword, pricking theground, and said, If I had had but thissword I should have had the cheesemyself, but now another has got it.TALE XU.* i *A man'in Gotham, that did not lovehis wife, and she having fair hair, herhusband said divers times he would cut14it off, but durst not do it when shewas awake,so she resolved to do it whenshe was asleep : therefore, one night hetookapairot shears and put th,em underhis pillow, which his wife perceiving,said to one of the maids,go to bed to myhusband, for he intends to cut off my, hair to-night, let him cut off thy hair,KAvHC_ancj j g^ve as g00(j a kit..tie as ever thou didst see. Themaid did so, and feigned herself asleep,which the man perceiving, cut off themaid’s hair, and wrapped it about theshears, and laid them under the pillow,and then fell asleep. The maid arose,and the wife took the hair and shears,and went to the hall and there burntthe hdir. The man had a fine horsethat he loved much, and the goodwifewent into the stable, and cut off thehair of the horse’s tail, wrapped theshears up in it, and laid them underthe pillow again. Her husband seeingher combing her head in the morning,marvelled very much thereat. Thegirl seeing her master in a deep study,said, What the devil ails the horse mthe stable, he has lost his tail ? The15man ran into the stable, and found thehorse’s tail was cut off; then going tothe bed, he found the shears wrappedup in his horse’s tail. He then wentto his^wife, saying, I crave thy m< c ;for I intended to cut off thy hair, itI have cut off my own horse’s tail,said she, self do self have. Manythink to do a bad turn, but it turn•V *oft times to themselves.TALE Xllf.A man of Gotham laid his wife awager that she could not make him acuckold. No ! said she, but I can. Donot spare me, said he, but do what youcan. On a time she had hid all thespjggots and fausets, and going intothe buttery, set a barrel of broach, andcried to her spouse, Pray bring me aspiggot and fauser, or else the ale willall run out. He sought up and down,but could not £nd one; Come herethen, said she, and put thy finger inthe top-hole. Then she called a tailorwith whom she made a bargain. Soon16after she came to her husband, andbrought a spiggot and a fauset, saying,Pull thy finger out of the tap-hole,good cuckold. Beshrew your heartfor your trouble, said she, ffiake nosuch bargain with me again.TALE XIV.A MA2f of Gotham took a youngbuzzard, and invited four or five gen¬tlemen’s servants to the eating of it jbut the wife killed an old goose, andshe and two of her gossips ate up thebuzzard, and.the old goose was laid tothe fire forthe'gentlemen’sservants. Sowhen they camethe goose was set beforethem. What is this ? said one of them;The goodman said, a curious buzzard.A buzzard! said they ; why,.it is an oldgoose, and thou art a knave to mockus, and so in great anger departedhome. The fellow was very sorry thathe had affronted them, and took a bagand put the buzzard’s feathers in it:but his wife desired him,before he went,to fetch a block of wood, and in the-in-17terim she > pulled out the buzzard’sfeathers, and put in the goose’s. Thenthe man, taking the bag, went to thegentlemen’s servants, and said, Pray,be not angry with me, you shall see 1Lad a buzzard, for there be the feath¬ers. Then he opened the bag, andtook out the goose’s feathers* Uponwhich one of them took a cudgel, andgave him a dozen of stripes*, saying.Why, you knave, could you not becontent to mock us at home, but youare come here to mock us also ?TALE XV.A man’s wife of Gotham was broughtto bed of a male child,and the fatherin-vited the gossips, which were childrenof eight or ten years of age. Theeldest child’s name was Gilbert, thesecond’s name was Humphrey, andthe godmother’s name was Christabel.Their relations admonished them di¬vers times, that they all must say af¬ter the parson. And when tLey wereall come to church, the priest said, Be18you all agreed of the name ? Gilbert,Hurophrayj and Christabel, said thesame. The priest then said, Where¬fore came you hither ? They immedi¬ately said- the same. The priest beingamazed, could not tell what to say,but whistled and said—Whey, and sodid they. The priest being angry, said,Go home, you fools, go home. ThenGilbert, Humphrey, and Christabel,did the same. The priest then providedgod-fathers and god-mothers himself.TALE XVI.A young man of Gotham went awooing to a fair maid: his mother warn¬ed him before-hand, saying, wheneveryou look at her, cast a sheep’s eye ather, and say, How dost thou my sweetPigsnie ? The fellow went to a butcherand bought seven or eight sheep eyes.And when this lusty wooer was at din¬ner,he would look upon the fair(wench,and cast in her face a sheep’s eye, say¬ing, How dost thou do, my sweet Pigs¬nie ? How I do, said the wench,19Swine’s face, what do you mean bycasting a sheep’s eye at me ? O! sweetPigsnie, have at thee with another. ButI defy thee, Swine’s face, said thewench. What, my sweet old Pigsnie,be content, for if you live till next yearyou will be a foul sow. Walk knave,walk, said she, for if you live till nextyear you will be a fool.TALE XVII.Thexe was a mm of Gotham whowould be married, and when the dayof marriage was come, they went tochurch. The priest said, Do yon sayafter me. The man said, Do you sayafter me. The priest said, Say not af¬ter me such like, but say what I shalltell you; thou dost play the fool tomock the holy Scriptures concerningmatrimony. Then the fellow said,Thoudost play the fool to mock the holyScriptures concerningmatrimony. Thepriest could not tell what to say, butanswered, Whatshall Ido withthis fool?and the man said, What shall I do with2°this fool ? So the priest took his leave,and would not marry them. But hewas instructed by others how to do,and was afterwards married. Andthus the breed of the Gothamites hasbeen perpetuated even unto this day.TALE XVIII.'IThere, was a Scotsman who dwelt atGotham, and he took a house at a little !distance from London, and turned itinto an inn, and for his sign he wouldhave a boar’s head. Accordingly hewent to a carver, and said, Can youmake me a bare head ? Yes, said thecarver. Then, said he, make me a barehead, and thou’se hae twentv shillingsfor thy hire. I will do it, said the car-„ ver. So on St. Andrew’s day, beforeChristmas, the which is called Yulein Scotland, the Scot came to Londonfor his boar's head to set up at hisdoor. I say to thee, speak, said theScotsman, hist thou made me a barehead ? Yes’ said the carver. Hewent and brought a man’s Lead ofwood that was bare, and said, Sir, there21is your bare head. Ay, said the Scot,the meikle de’il! is this a bare.head?Yes, said the carver. I say, said theScotsman, I will have a bare head likethe head chat follows a sow withgryces. Whafc, whoreson, know younot a sow that will greet and groanand cry a-weak, a-weak. What, saidthe carver, do you mean a pig ? Yes,said the Scotsman, let me have herhead made of timber, and set on hera scalp, and let her sing—Whip whire.The carver said he could nor. Youwhoreson, said he, gar her as she’dsing Whip whire.TALE XIX.Zn old times, during these tales, thewives of Gotham were got into an ale-bou$e^ and said they were all profitableto their husbandsi Which way goodgossips ? said the ale-wife. The firstsaid, 1 will tell you all, good gossips :I cannot brew nor bake, therefore Iam every day alike, and go to the ale¬house because I cannot go to church}22and in the ale-house I pray to God tospeed my husband, and I am sure myprayers will do him more good thanmy labour. Then said the second, Iam profitable to my husband in savingof candle in winter, for I cause myhusband acd all my people to go tobed by day-light and rise by day¬light. The third said, I am pro¬fitable in sparing bread, for I drinka gallon of ale, and I care not muchfor meat. The fourth said, t am loathto spend meat and drink at home, so Igo to the tavern at Nottingham anddrink wine, and such other things asGod sends me there. The fifth said,A man will ever have more company inanother’s house than his own, and mostcommonly in the alehouse. The sixthsaid, My husband has flax and wool tospare, if I go to ocher folks’ houses todo their work. The seventh said, Isparemy husband’s wood andclothes,&sit all day talking at other folks’ fires.The eighth said,Beef,mutton, and porkare dear, 1 therefore take pigs, chick¬ens, conies, and capons, being of a les-23ser price* The ninth said, 1 spare myhusband’s soap, for instead of washingonce a week, I wash but once a quar¬ter. Then said the ale-wife, I keep allmy husband’s ale from swering; foras I was wont to drink it almost up,now I never leave a drop.TALE XX.On Ash Wednesday, the minister ofGotham would have a collection fromhis parishioners, and said unto them,My friends, the time is come that youmust use prayer, fasting, and alms, butcome ye to shrift, I will tell you moreof my mind. But as for prayer, Idon’t think that two men in the parishcan say their Pater-noster. As forfasting, ye fast still, for ye have not agood meal’s meat in the year. As foralm-d^eds, what should they give thathave nothing ? In Lent you must re¬frain from drunkenness and abstainfrom drink. No, not so, said one fel¬low, for it is an old proverb, that fishshould swim. Yes, said the priest, they24must swim in the water. I crave thymercy, quoth the fellow, I thought itshould have sw£m in fine ale, for Ihave been told so. Soon after, themen of Gotham come to shrift, andbeing seven, the priest knew not whatpenance to give. He said, if I enjoinyou to pray, you cannot say. yourPaternoster. And it is but folly fcomake you fast, because you never eata meat’s meat. Labour hard, and geta dinner on Sunday, and I will partakeof it. Another man he enjoined tofare well on Monday, and another onTuesday, and one after another, thatone or other should fare well once inthe week, that he might have part oftheir meat. And for aim-deeds, thepriest said, ye be but beggars all ex¬cept one or two, therefore bestow youralms on yourselves.FINIS.