/zEXECUTIONANDAWFUL CONFESSIONor'EDWARD ROBERTSON,ANDMATTHEW M ‘ Q U E E N , .r •"■rr- ■ .■.WHO WEREEXECUTED AT SYDNEY,> J;VjomoFor the Murder of Three of theirCompanions.,vjodEDINBURGH:EXECUTION! OFEDWARD ROBERTSON,ANDMATTHEW M‘QUEEN.. : 'v. :c . ? v r.-.From the contents of Van Dieman’s LandPapers, received on Saturday, we copy thefollowing paragraph:—On Friday last, Edward Robertson andMatthew M‘Queen, convicted of abscondingfrom the penal settlement of Macquarrie Har¬bour, were executed.Erom the Hobart Town Courier cf Feb.13, we extract the following statement, whichRobertson himself had given, and which waspublicly read in the press room, by his owndesire, whilst the executioner was pinnioninghis arms,’ and adjusting the ropeThat hewas now 28 years of age, and had been sen¬tenced to death fbr robbing in Scotland,under aggravated circumstances, at the earlyage of 18. He had more than once endea¬voured to rob his own mother; and his‘hor¬rible conduct was the means of breftb’fng hisfather’s heart, and hurrying him to the grave.He was confined in Guilford gaol ; and had,altogether, spent more years in gaols than atliberty. On his transportation to this colony,he had scarcely landed in Hobart Towmwhehhe commenced robberies. He was at-lastapprehended for an outrage which he com¬mitted at Sandy Bay, tried, and transportedto Macquarrie Harbour. ■ i&vWe have already stated that the party ofrunaways from Macquarrie Harbour, con-tisted originally of five men, viz.-^-RichardHutchinson, commonly called Up-and-downDick, a tall man, who had, at one time, alarge Rock of sheep, and a herd of cattle, atBerk-hut plains, between the Clyde and Shan¬non, near the spot where Culny Park now is,the estate of Captain Clark ; of an old mannamed Coventry, about 60 years of age;Patrick Fagan, a boy of a most depravedcharacter, aged about 18 years ;' and the twemalefactors, Robertson and IVI‘Queen, whesuffered on the gallows on Friday. Thesemen happened to be at one of the out station!of Macqharrie Harbour, and were in chargiof one man, a constable. 1 u |4This constable, Robertson declared, hadshown him many personal kindnesses, andrefused nothing in his power; nevertheless,on their departure, he joined with his fourcompanions in robbing him of every articlehe had, not leaving him even a loaf of breadto subsist on, though he was without a mor¬sel, and three days must have elapsed beforehe could obtain any more from the main set¬tlement j and Robertson had, besides, atvarious times, tried to be accessary to hisdeath, by letting a tree fall upon him with¬out giving him notice, or by other mean, forno other earthly reason than because he wasa constable, and the unwilling or passive in¬strument of flogging the men ; and he, there¬fore, hated him. One would have thoughtthat these five men, thus embarked in a mostperilous journey, would have been knit to¬gether in one interest for their mutual safetyand protection. They viewed each other withthe most murderous feeling, jealous of thepossession of the only axe which they c. rriedamongst them, lest one should drive it intothe head of the other; for that was the modeof slaughter upon on another, while thewretched victim was asleep. The demon ofevil had possessien, and walked in the midstof them. Every principle—every feeling of5umanity was dead amongst! them. Robert-3n called himself a Protestant, and M,Queen,Roman Catholic—that is, they had sprung*om parents professing these persuasions ;ut, as for themselves, they had neither ofae least spark of religion ; they knew noacre what it was than the earth on whichhey trod. They walked in each other’s com-any, the one carrying his luckless body forhe support of the other wherever it might beonvenient for him to sacrifice him for thefteal. Five times worse than the wretchedlorde of Abyssinians, who cut the flesh,s they travel, from the back ot the living)east.As soon as the provisions which they hadontrived to carry with them were exhausted,he other four agreed among themselves tofill Hutchinson, and to eat his body for sup-3ort; and they drew lots among them who;hould be the one to drive the fatal axe intolis head. The lot fell on Robeitson, whorarried it into execution. They cut the bcdynto piecs, and carried it with them, with theException of the hands, feet, and intestines.Fhey ate heartily of it, as Robertson expres¬sed it. It lasted them some days ; and whent was nearly all consumed, a general alarmseized the whole party. The greatest jea-ousy prevailed about carrying the axe, atid6scarce one amongst them dared to shuteyes or doze for a moment, for fear of besacrificed uuawares. Under these dfeaccircumstances, Robertson and Fagan ma sort of agreement between them, that wlone slept the other should watch, alternat*“ We were always alarmed. The next twas murdered was Coventry, the old mhe was cutting wood one night, andagreed, in the mean time, to. kill hiM'Queen and Fagan wanted to draw 1again who should kill him, but I said nchad already killed my man, a>nd they ou^to do it between them, that they mightin the same trouble as me. Fagan stnhim the first blow. He saw him. comiland called out for mercy : he struck himthe head, just above the eye, but did not Ihim. Myself and M‘Queen finished hiand cut him in pieces. We ate greedilythe flesh, never sparing it, just as if we <pected to meet with a whole bullock nday. I used to carry the axe by day, alay it under me at night. I thought I v,safe, forgetting that they had knives andzors. Before we had ate all Coventry’s fie:M‘Oueen started up, one night, looking hiribly, and bade me come with him to jsoifie snares to catch a kangaroo. \\ e 1Fagan by the fire, and when wc had .gcout 200 yards K& asked me to sit dou ti.iad the axe upon my shoulder, and I was•aid he wanted to kill me, for he wasonger than I, So I threw the axe aside,,t farther from him than me, for fear heould try to snatch it—that I should reachbefore him if he did. But he wanted mekill Fagan, that he might not be evidenceainst us. I would not agree to it, saying,:ould trust my life in his hands, and weturned to the fire.cs On our return, Fagan was lying by the•e warming himself. I threw down thee ; and he looked up and said, ‘ Have youit any snares down, Ned ?’ I said, ‘ No ;ere are snares enough, if you did but know* J sat beside him, M‘Queen was be->od me : he v,Tas on my right, arid Fagani my left. I was wishing to tell Faganhat had passed, but could not, as M'Queenas sitting with the axe close by looking at;. I lay down, and was in a doze, when I;ard Fagan scream out. I leaped on myet, in a dreadful fright, and saw Fagan ly-Z on his back, with a dreadful cut in thesad, and the blood pouring frors, it.[‘Queen was standing over him, with the;e in his hand. I said, ‘ Ycm murderingseal, you b—y dog ! what have you done ?’e said, ‘ This will save our lives j’ and8lstruck him another blow on the head withe axe. Fagan only groaned after the screaiM-Queen then cut his throat with a razthrough the windpipe. We then strippoff his clothes, and cut the body in pieces atroasted it. We roasted it ail at once, up'all occasions, as it was lighter to carry, aiwould keep longer. • About four days afithat, we gave ourselves up at MacguinMarsh, a hut belonging to Mr Nicholas,the junction of the Shannon and the Oujor Big kiver. Two days before, we heaisome dogs that had caught a kangaroo, atthrew away the remainder of Fagan’s bodI wish this to be made public after my deat“ EDWARD ROBERTSON.”