A CHOICE PROP OF HONEYTHE ROCK CHRIST;OB,a shout word or adticbI»I:l))!j)>t)i>5>I>i>SAINTS AND SINNERS.B Y THOMAS WILCOCKS.LIGLASGOW: ' OF SCOTLiPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSfcfi&lWeU«>•;Hrj^-A ijife ^ ^tff^’^iy5K1/XEP KOK XHK B00K8ErrSIT»4eryaooM.:DA AflOHVg AirCO(.K8?.VlVi ’8 ' MD 8mJlEK8;iOT 8I10KI MOKD Oik TD1ICIo»*XHE KOOK CHKIR.TXuoaV OHOIOE DKOL OR HOI4EI<5#>€>©©e#©##€$r#r>.c«eft6#f>#e©CHRISTIAN RRADEft,I I Firin, iii this latter day, the love of tke LordIj Shining in some measur'd with its pleasant teamsinto my heart, tvarming iny affections, inflamingf my soul not only to give a spiritual echo in soulI duty to so great a lover as my Saviour is, whoseI transcendent lovepasseth knowledge, Eph. iii. 19.I‘l| but also the loving and wishing well to all Sion’sl!ll hhaven-bbrn children ; for 1 find, in this day,|ll many pobr souls tossed to and fro, ready to be;i;i earthed away \vith every wind of doctrine, by the|!i Sleight of men and cunning craftiness, wherebyb they lie in wait to deceive, Eph. iv. 14 : and that| there are many foundations to build upon that areI false, upon which much labour is spent in vain ;I that men are not Speaking the truth in love ;it neithef are they growing up unto him in allfill things, which is the head Christ, Eph. iv. 15.I There cannot be a growing in Christ, without aJj union with him. Thou wilt find, therefore,ig gentle reader, this ensuing little treatise, if theJ Lord be pleased to bless the reading of it untoII thee, as a still voice behind thee saying, “ This isId the way, walk in it, that thou turn not to theI right hand or the left.”—The way into that(pleasant path of soul justification before God isin and through the righteousness of Jesus Christ,for all our self-righteousness is as filthy rags:it surely shall one say, “ In the Lord shall all theH seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory,”il Lnu. xlv. 25. It is only the dying of thatI4Just One, for us unjust ones, that must bring usto God. He that knew no sin was made sin forus; that we who were nothing but sin, mightbe made the righteousness of God in him, 2 Cor.v. 21.Christian Reader, let all that is of old Adaraiu thee fall down at the foot of Christ. He onljmust have the pre-eminence all the vessels ofthis new spiritual covenant temple, from the cupsto the flagons, must be all hung upon Christ;he is to build the temple of the Lord, and is tobear the glory ; he, by his Father’s appointment,is the foundation-stone, the corner-stone, andthe top-stone ; he is the Father’s fulness ofgrace and glory; whatever thy wants be, thoumayest come to him ; there is balsam enough inhim fit for a cure.Reader, the good Lord help thee to experiencethe ensuing word of advice, that it may be madeby God unto tlieo like honey, sweet to thy soul,and health to thy bones, and thy soul shall re¬joice within thee. Thy brother iu the faith andfellowship oi the gospel,THOMAS WILCOCKS.A CHOICE DROP OF HONEYFROM THEROCK CHRIST.|j A word of advice to ray owa heart and thine :—1 Thou art a professor, and partakest of all or-;dinancos: Thou dost well, they are glorious•' privileges. But if thou hast not the blood of1 Christ at the root of thy profession, it will wither,j| and prove but painted pageantry to go to hell in.If thou retain guilt and self-righteousness|i| under it, those vipers will eat out all the vitals ofi! it at length.—Try and examine with the greatest' strictness every day, what foundation thy pro-V fession and thy hope of glory is built upon,Ji whether it was laid by the hand of Christ; if not,| it will never be able to endure the storm thatI will come against it. Satan will throw it allIf down, and great will be the fall thereof, Matt.Ij'i vii. 27.j Glorious professor! thou shalt be winnowed,U every vein of thy profession shall be tried to pur-| pose! It is terrible to have it all come tumblingdown, and to find nothing but it to rest upon,i Soaring professor! see to thy waxen wings be-i times, which will melt with the heat of tempta-] tions. What a misery it is, to trade much, andj break at length, and have no stock, no foundationII laid for eternity in thy soul!Gilded professor! look if there be not a worm!'! at the root,’ that will spoil all thy fine gOurd, and: j make it die about then in a day of scorching. Look9 over thy soul daily, and ask, “ Where is the blood4of Christ to be seen upon my soul ? What righ¬teousness is it that I stand upon to be saved? HaveI got o'ff frly delf-righteoithifess?—Mdity ferrfinentprofessors have come at length to cry out in thesight of the ruin of all their duties, Undone,undone, to all eternity!Consider, they greatest sins fnay be hid under thegreatest duties, and the greatest terrors. See thewound that sin hath made in thy soul be perfectlycured,by the blood of Christ; not skinaed overwith duties, humblings, enlargements, &c. Applywhat thou wilt besides the blood of Christ, it willpoison the sore. Thou wilt find that sin was nevermortified truly; that thou hast not seen Christbleeding for thee upon the cross ; nothing can killit, but the beholding of Christ’s righteousness.Mature can afford no balsam fit for soul cure.Healing from duty and not from Christ, is themost desperate disease. Poor ragged nature,with all its highest improvements, can never spina garment fine enough, without spot, to coverthe soul’s nakedness. Nothing can fit the soulfor tlpat use, but Christ’s perfect righteousness.Whatsoever is of nature’s spinning must ke allunravelled, before the righteousness of Christ canbe put on ; whatsoever is nature’s putting on,Sai^m will come and plunder it every rag away,and leave the soul naked and open to the wrathof God. All that nature can do will never makeup the least drachm of grace, that can mortifysin, or look Christ in the face even for one day.Thou art a professor, goest on hearing, praying,and receiving, yet miserable thou mayest be.Look about thee ; did thou ever yet see Christ tothis day in distinction from all other excellenciesand righteousness in the world, and all of themfalling before the majesty of his love and grace ?Is. ii. 17.tIf tboti hast seen Christ truly, thou hast fefeen» purp grace, pure righteousness in him, every■way infinite, far exceeding all sin and misery;l If thou hast seen Christ, thou eanst trample upbili all the righteousness of men and aiigels, so as toI bring thee into acceptance -frith Cod. If thouI hast seen Christ, thou frouldst Hot do a duty1 without him for ten thousand frorlds, 1 Cior. ii. 2.If ever thou safrest Christ, thou sawest hint al| Rock, higher than self-righteousness, Satan, arid! sin, Ps. Ixi. 2 ; and this Rock doth folldfr thee;!1 Cor. x. 4; and there will be continual droppingOf honey and grace out of that Rock to satisfythee; Ps. Ixxxi. 16. Examine if ever thou hast| beheld Christ as the only-begotten of the Father,!! full Of grace and truth, John, i. 14, 16, 17. BOsure thou art come to Christ, that thou standestoh the Rock of Ages, hast answered to his call tothy soul, hast closed frith him for justification:Meh talk bravely of believing, but frhilst frholep afid Sound fefr know it. Christ is the mystery of!, the Scripture: Grace the mystery of Christ, be¬ll lieving is the most fronderfhl thing iri the world.1 Put any thing of thine own to it, aiid thbn Spoilestli it; Christ frill not so mhch as look at it fdr be-I lieving. When thou believeSt and cOttiest toChrist, thou must leave behind theb tliihe ownrighteousness, and bring' nothing but thy sitt.(O that is hard!) Leave behind thy holihesS;sanctification, duties, humblings, &c., ahd bringi nothing but thy wants and miseries, Site ChHstis not fit for theC, nor thou for CHHst. Christfrill be a whole Redeemer and Mediator, andI thou must be ah undone Sinner, or Christ attdthou will never agree. It is the hardest thihg totake Christ alone for righteousness: that is, toacknowledge him Christ. Join any thing to himof thihe own, and thou dost on-Chtist hint.8Whatever comes iu when thou goest to Godfor acceptance besides Clirist, call it anti-Christ jbid it begone ; make only Christ’s righteousnesstriumphant; all besides that is Babylon, whichJmst fall if Christ stand ; and thou shalt rejoicein the day of the fall thereof, Is. xiv. 10, 11, 12. -Christ alone did tread the wine-press, andthere was none with him, Is. Ixiii. 3. If thoujoin any thing to Christ, Christ will trampleupon it in fury and anger, and stain his raimentwith the blood thereof.——Thou tkinkest it easyto believe ; was ever thy faith tried with an hourof temptation, or with a, thorough sight of sin?Was it ever put to wrestle with Satan, and thewrath of God lying upon the conscience ? Whenthou wast in the mouth of hell and the grave,then God shewed thee Christ, a ransom, arighteousness, &c. Then if thou couldst say,Oil, I see grace enough in Christ, thou mayestsay that which is the biggest word in the world,Thou believest. Untried faith is uncertain faith.To believing, there mast go a clear convictionof sin, and the merits of the blood of Christ, andof Christ’s willingness to save upon this con¬sideration merely, that thou art a sinner ; thingsall harder than to make a world. All the powersin nature cannot get up so high in a storm of sinand guilt, as really to believe there is any grace,any willingness, in Christ to save. When Satancharged sin upon the conscience, then for thesoul to bring it to Christ, that is gospel-like.That is to make him Christ, he serves for thatuse. To accept Christ’s righteousness alone, hisblood alone, for salvation, that is the sum of thegospel. When the soul, iu all duties and dis¬tresses, can say, Nothing but Christ, Christalone for righteousness, justification, sanctifica¬tion, redemption, 1 Cor, i, 30; wot hmnblings,9uor duties, nor graces, &c., that soul hath gotabove the roach of the billows.All temptations, Satan’s advantages, our com¬plainings, are laid in self-righteousness, and self-;excellency: God pursueth these, by setting Satanupon thee, as Laban did Jacob for his images ;these must be torn from thee, he is unwilling asthou wilt; these hinder Christ from coming in ;and till Christ come in, guilt will not come out;and where guilt is, there is hardness of heart;and therefore much guilt argues little if anything of Christ.When guilt is raised up, take heed of gettingit allayed any way but by Christ’s blood, thatwill tend to hardening. Make Christ thy peace,Kph. i. 14, not thy duties, thy tears, &c. Thoumayest offend Christ by duties as well as sins.Look at Christ, and do as much as thou wilt.Rest with all thy weight upon Christ’s righte-oumoss ; take heed of having one foot on thineown righteonanoss and another on Christ’s. Tillhe com* and sit on high, upon a throne of gracein the conscience, there is nothing but guilt,ternor, secret suspicions, the soul hanging betwixthope and fear, which is an un-gospel-like state.He that fears to see sin’s utmost vileness, the' utmost hell of his own heart, suspects themerits of Christ. Be thou never such a greatsinner, 1 John, ii. 1 ; try Christ, to make him thyadvocate, and thou shalt find him Jesus Chi-ist[ the righteous. In all doublings, fears, storms of> conscience, look at Christ continually. Do notargue it with Satan, he desires no better. Bid himgo to Christ, and he will answer him. It is hisoffice to be our advocate, 1 John, ii. 1. Hisoffice is to answer tho law as our surety, Heb.vii. 22 -r his office to answer justice, as ourMediator, Gal. iii. 20; 1 Tim. ii, 5. And ho is10ryrqrft to that office, Heb. vii, 20, 21. IHit Cbmtupon it. If thou wilt do any thing thyself to sa¬tisfaction for sjn, thou renouncest Christ therighteous, who was made sin for thee, 2 Cor. v. 21.Satan may alledge, and corrupt scripture, buthe cannot answer scripture. It is Christ's wordof mighty authority. Christ foiled Satan withit, Matt. iv. 10. In all the scripture there is notan ill word against a poor sinner stripped of self-righteousness ; nay, it plainly points out thisman to be the subject of the grace of the gospel,and none else. Believe but in Christ’s willing¬ness, and that will make thee willing. If thouhudest thou canst not believe, put him upon it;he works to will and to believe, put him upon it;he works to will and to do of his own pleasure,Phil- ii. 13- Mourn for thy unbelief, which isU setting up of guilt in the conscience aboveChrist, an undervaluing of the merits of Christ,acpoupting his blood an unholy, a common, andunsatisfying thing.Thou complainest much of thyself.—Doth thysin make thee look more at Christ, less at thy¬self? That is right, else complaining is buthypocrisy. To be looking at duties, graces, en¬largements, when thou shouldst be looking atChrist, that is pitiful. Looking at them willmake you humble. By grace ye are saved, Eph.ii. 5, 8. In all thy temptations be not discouraged,James, i. 2. Those surges may be not to drownthee, hut to cast thee on the Rock Christ.Thou mayest he brought low, even to thebrink of hell, yet there thou mayest cry, therethou mayest look towards the holy temple,Jonah, ii. 14. Into that temple none might enterbut purified ones, and with an offering too, Acti,x*i. 26. But now Christ is our temple, sacrifice,Ultnf, and high-priest to whom none must comeilH!but linnera, and that without any offering buthis own blood once offered. Heb. vii. 27.Remember all the patterns of grace that are inheaven. Thou thinkest, “ Oh what a monumentof grace shall I be!’* There are many thousandsas rich monuments as thou canst be. The greatestsinner did never surpass the grace of Christ. Donot despair: hope still. When the clouds are! blackest, even then look towards Christ, thestanding pillar of the Father’s love gnd grace,set up i'n heaven, for all sinners to gaze uponcontinually. Whatsoever Satan or consciencesay, do not conclude against thyself. Christsi shall have the last word; he is judge of quicki and dead, and must pronounce the fatal sentence,i His blood speaks reconciliation. Col. i. 20;cleansing, 1 John, i. 7 ; purchase, Acts xx. 28 ;redemption, 1 Pet. i. 9 ; purging, Heb. v. 13, 14 ;remission, verse 22 ■ liberty, Heb. x. 19 ; justifi-f! cation, Rqm. v. 9 ; nearndss to God, Bph. ii. 13.i Not a drop of this blood shall be lost. Stands and hearken what God will say, for he willspeak peace to his people, that they returni ifo moi'e to folly, Psal. Ixxxv. 8. He speaks! grace, mercy, and peace, 2 Tim. i. 2. That is‘ the language of the Father and of Christ. Waitfor Christ’S appearing, as the morning star, Rev.xxii. 19. He shall come as certain as the morn¬ing, as refreshing as the rain, llos. vi. 3.IT he sun may as well be hindered from rising,as Christ the sun of righteousness, Mai. iv. 2.Look not a moment off Christ. Look not uponsin, but look upon Christ first: when thoumournest for sin, if thou dost not see Christ,then away with it, Zech. ii. 20. In every dutylook at Christ; before duty, to pardon; in duty,to assist; after duty, to accept. Without this itis but carnal careless duty. Do not legalise thegospul, aft if part did remain to thee to do andsuffer, and Christ were but an half mediator;and thou must bear part of thine own sin, andmake part satisfaction. Let sin break thy heart,but not thy hope in the gospel.Look more at justification than sanctification.In the highest commands consider Christ, not asan exactor, to inquire, but a debtor and under¬taker, to work. If thou hast looked at workings,duties, qualifications, &c., more than at th#merits of Christ, it will cost thee dear; nowonder thou goest complaining; graces may beevidences, the merits of Christ alone, withoutthem, must be the foundation of thy hope to restupon. Christ only can be the hope of glory,Col. i. 27.When we come to God, we must bring nothingbut Christ with us. Any ingredients, or anyprevious qualifications of our own, will poisonand corrupt faith. He that builds upon duties,graces, &c., knows not the merits of Christ; thismakes believing so hard, so far from nature. Ifthou believest, thou must every day renounce asdung and dross, (Phil. iii. 7, 9,) thy privileges,thy qualifications, thy baptism, thy sanctification,thy duties, thy graces, thy tears, thy meltings,thy humblings, and nothing but Christ must beheld up. Every day thy workings, thy self-sufficiency must be destroyed. Thou must takeall out of God’s hand. Christ is the gift of God,John, iv. 10. Faith is the gift of God, Eph. ii. 1.Pardon a free gift, Rom. v. 16. Ah, how naturestorms, frets, rages at this, that all is of gift, andit can purclia.se nothing with its actings, andtears, and duties; that all workings are ex¬cluded, and of no value in heaven!If nature had been to contrive the way of sal¬vation, it would rather have put it into the handsISof saints or angels to sell it, than the hands OfChrist, who gives freely, whom therefore itsuspects ; nature would have set up a way topi.rchase by doing ; therefore it abominates themerits of Christ, as the most destructive thing toI it. Nature would do any thing to be saved,i rather than go to Christ, or close with Christ,and owe all to him. Christ will have nothing ;but the soul will force somrwhat of his own upon! Christ. Herein is that great controversy.—•i Consider—didst thou ever yet see the merits of! Christ, and the infinite satisfaction made by hisdeath ? Didst thou see this when the burden ofsin and the wrath of God lay heavy oa thyconscience ? That is grace. The greatness ofChrist’s merit is not known but to a poor soul indeep distress! Slight convictions will but haveslight low prizings of Christ’s blood and merits.Despairing sinner! Thou lookest on thy righthand, and on thy left, saying, “ Who will shewus any good!” Thou art looking over all thy> duties and professions to patch a righteousness to| save thee. Look at Christ now; look to himand be saved all the ends of the earth, Is. xlv., 22. There is none else. He is a Saviour, and’ there is none besides him, xliii. 11. Look anywhere else, and thou art undone. God will lookat nothing but Christ, and thou must look atnothing else. Christ is lifted up on high, as thebrazen serpent in the wilderness, that sinners atthe end of the earth, at the greatest distance, maysee him, and look towards him, John, iii. 14, 15.The least sight of him will be saving, the leasttouch healing to thee ; and God intends thoushouldst look on him, for ho hath set him upona high throne of glory, in the open view of allpoor sinners. Thou hast infinite reason to lookos him : u« reason at all to look off him; for he14vj 1is megk and low}y of he^rt, iMatf,. x\. 2‘J. Hofill do that himself which he reymyes ot hispreatures ; yiz. hear with infirmities, llom. xv. ].Not pleasing himself, nor standing upon points oflaw, yer, 2 ; }ic wi|l yestorc with the spirit ofmeekness, Cal. yi-; apA kepi: thy bpi'deps,ypr. 2. He will forgive not only till sevpntimes, hut spyenfy times seven, Matt, xviii. 21,22- I put the faith p.f the applies to it to belipvethis, Lukp, x-vii- 4, A- Hqcause we are hard tofovgivp, we think Christ is hard.We sep sin great, we think Christ doth so, andmcanm; infinite loyp with pur Ijpe, iniinitemerits with our sips, which is thp great pride andblasphemy, 1^. ciii. 11, 12; jq. X. 15. Ilparwhat he sajth : J kaye found a mn^onn Job. xxxiii.2£ ; ip him I am well pleased, Matf. iii. 18.God will have nething else ; notiiiing else will Aotlipe gpod, pr satisfy conscience, hut Christ whosatisfied the Fathey. Cod dqth all upon theaccount of Christ- Thy deserts are hell, wrath,rejection. Christ’s deserts are life, pardon, andacceptance. He will not only shew thee one,but he will give thee the other. It is Christ’sown glory and happiness to pardon. Consider,whilst Christ was upon the ear tin he wqs moreamong publicans and sinners, than among scribesand pharisees, hig professed adversaries, for theywere righteous ones: it is not as thou imagipegt,that his state in glory makes him neglected,scornful to poor sinners ; No. lie hath the sameheart now in heaven; he is good, and changpthnot; he is the Lamb of God that taketh awaythe sins of the world, John, i. 20. He wentthrough all thy temptations, dejections, sorrows,desertions, rejections, Matt. iy. 3 to 12 and 26;Mark, xv. 24; Luke, xxii. 44 ; Matt. xxiv. 38.And he hath drawn the bitterness of the cup, anilleft thee the sweet: the condemnation is out ■Ohrist drank up all the Father’s wrath at onei! draught, and nothing but salvation is left for thee.Thou sayest thou canst not believe, thou canst| not repeiit. Fitter for Christ if thou hast nothing! but sin and misery. C4o to Christ with all thyi! impenitence and unbelief, to get faith and rei pentance from him—that is glorious. Say untoi him. Lord, I have brought no righteousness or;• grace to be accepted in or justified by ; I amcome for thine. We would be bringing to Christ,i| which must not be ; grace will not stand withi wor}v?, Tit. iii. 5 ; Rom. xi. 6. S elf-righteous-:: ness and self-sufficiency are the darlings ofi nature, which she preserves as her life; that| makes Christ obnoxious to nature ; nature cannotdesire him; he is just directly opposite to alli! nature’s glorious interests. Let nature make a; gospel, and it would make it contrary to Christ.It would be to the just, the innocent, the holy,&c. Christ made the gospel for thee, that is, for: needy sinners, the ungodly, the unrighteous, thoaccursed. Nature cannot endure to think thegospel is only for sinners ; it will rather' choose todespair than go to Christ upon such terribleterms. When nature is opposed to guilt orwrath, it will go to its own haunts of self-righte¬ousness, self-goodness, &c. An infinite powerm|Mt cast down those strong holds. None butthe self-justiciary stancfs excluded put of thegospel. Christ will jook at the most abominablepinner before him, because to such a one Christcannot j)e made justification—he is no sinner. Tosay in compliment, J am a sinner, is easy; but topray with the publican indeed, Lord be mercifulto me a sinner, is the hardest prayer in thoworld. It is easy to profess Christ with the! mouth, but to confess him with the heart, as.Kmi     ■-r*---   ■. "r*'—16Peter, (to bo the Christ, the Sou of the livingGod, the alone Mediator,) that is above flesh anablood. Many call Christ Saviour ; few know himto be so. To see grace and salvation in Christ,is the greatest sight in the world ; none can dothat, but at the same time they shall see thatglory and salvation to bo theirs. I may beashamed to think, in the midst of so much pro¬fession, that I have little of the blood of Christ,which is the main thing of the gospel. A Christ- |leu formal profession will be the blackest sightnext to hell. Thou mayest have many goodthings, and yet one thing may be wanting that!may make thee go away sorrowful from Christ.Thou hast never sold all thou hast, never partedwith all thine own righteousness, Ac. Thoumayest be high in duty, and yet a perfect enemyand adversary to Christ, in every prayer, in everyordinance.Labour after sanctification to thy utmost, butmake not a Christ of it to save thee ; if so,it must come down one or other.Christ’s infinite satisfaction, not thy sanctifica¬tion, must be thy justification before God. Whenthe Lord shall appear terrible out of his holy 1place, fire shall consume that as hay and stubble.This will be found true religion, to rest all uponthe everlasting mountains of God’s love and gracein Christ; to live continually in tlie sight ofChrist’s infinite righteousness and mefits, (theyare sanctifying ; without them the heart is carnal,)and in those sights to see the full vileness of sin,and to see all pardoned ; in those sights to pray,hear, Ac., seeing thy polluted self, and all thyweak performances accepted continually ; in thosesights to trample upon all thy self-glories, ]righteousness, and privileges, as abominable, iand b« found continually in the righteousness of i17Christ only ; rejoicing in the ruins of thy ownrighteousness, the spoiling of all thy own ex¬cellencies, that Christ’s alone, as Mediator, maybe exalted on his throne : mourning over all thyduties (how glorious soever) which thou hast notperformed in the sight and sense of Christ’s love.Without the blood of Christ on the conscience, allthis is dead service, Heb. ix. 14.That opinion of free will, so cried up, will beeasily confuted, as it is by scripture, in the heartthat hath had any spiritual dealings with JesusChrist, as to the application to its merit, and sub-, jection to his righteousness. Christ is every waytoo magnificent a person for a poor nature to> close withal or to apprehend. Christ is so in-i finitely holy, nature durst never look at him ; soinfinitely good, nature can never believe him to1 be such, when it lies under a full sight of sin.) Christ is too high and glorious for nature so muchn as to touch. There must be a divine nature firstput in the soul, to make it lie on him, he lies soinfinitely beyond the sight or reach of nature.That Christ, which natural free will canii apprehend, is but a natural Christ of a man’sI own making, not* the Father’s Christ, nor Jesusthe Son of the living God, to whom none cancome without the father’s drawing, John vi. 44.46. Finally, search the scriptures daily, asmines of gold, wherein the heart of Christ is laid.Watch against constitutional sins, see them intheir vileness, and they shall never break outinto act. Keep always an humble, empty,broken frame of heart, sensible of any spiritualmiscarriage, observant of all inward workings,fit for the highest communications. Keep notguilt in the conscience, but apply the bloodof Christ immediately. God chargeth sin andguilt upon thee, to make thee look to Christ.18Judge not Christ’s love by providences, bnt bypromises. Bless God for shaking off falsefoundations, and for any way thereby he keepsthe soul awakened and looking after Christ.Better sicknesses and temptations than securityand slightness.A slighting spirit will turn a profane spiritand will sin and pray too. Slighting is the baneof profession ; if it be hot rooted out of the heart,by constant and serious dealings with, and be-holdings of Christ in duties, it will grow morestrong and more deadly by being under churchordinances. Measure nob thy graces by otherattainments, but by Scripture trials. Be seriousand exact in dhty, having the Weight of it uponthe heart; be as much afraid of taking comfortfrom duties as from sms. Comfort from anyhand but Christ’S is deadly. Bo much in prayef>or you will never keep up much eemimmion withGod. As you are in closet prayer, so you willbo in all .bther ordinances.Iteckon nbt duties by high expression, but bylow frames, and -the beholding* of Christ.Tremble a* duties add gifts. It was a saying ofa great saint, he was inoto afraid of his dutiesthan his sins; the one Often made him proud,tlio‘ other always made him humble: Treasureup manifestations of Christ’s love, they make theheart low fdf Christ, tod high for sin. Slightnot the lowest, meanest evidences of grace ; Godmay put thee to make use of the lowest as thotithinkest, even that, 1 John, iii. 14, itiay be wortha thousand worlds to thee.Be true to truth; bttt nbt turbulent and scornful:Restore such as are fallen ; help theta up againwith all the bowels of Christ. Set the brokendisjointed bones with the graco of the gospel.High professor, deipise not weak saints. Thou19I mayest come to wish to be iu the condition of themeanest of them. Be faithful to others’ in-: firmities, but sensible of thy own. Visit sick: beds and deserted souls much, they are excellenti schools in experience, Abide in your calling,i Be dutiful to all relations as to the Lord. Ber. content with little of the world ; little will serve.Think every little of the earth much, because. unworthy of the least. Think much of heaven*; not little, because Christ is so rich and free,t Think every one better than thyself, and everi‘carry self-loathing about thee, as one fit to'i be trampled upon by all saints. See the vanity■ of the world, and the consumption there is uponi all things, and love nothing but Christ. Mourn> to see so little of Christ in the world, so few| heeding liim: trifles please them better. To a/i secure soul Christ is but a table, the scripture buti a story. Mourn to think how many there arei under baptism and church order, that are not! under grace, looking niuch after outward duties,little after Christ, little versed in grace. Pre¬pare for the cross ; welcome it, bear it triumphant-ly like Christ’s cross ; whether ,scoffs, jnockings,jeers, contempt, imprisonment, &c. But see itbo Christ’s cross, not thine own. ; 'Sin will hinder from glorying in thp. cross ofChrist, Omitting little truths against light ihaiybreed guilt in the conscience, as well as cotn-t initting the greatest sins .against light. If thouj hast been taken out of the belly of holi intoChrist’s bosom, and made to sit among princes inthe household of God, oh how shouldst thou liveas a pattern of mercy ? Redeemed, restored soui*what infinite sums dost thou not owe to Christ^With what singular frames must thou walk, anddo every duty! On sabbaths, what praising days,singing hallelujahs, should they be to theflb20Church fellowship: what a heareo, a being withChrist, and angels, and saints in communion' ;what a bathing of the soul in eternal love ; wheta burial with Christ, and dying to all thingsbeside him! Every time thou thinkest of Christ,be astonished, and wonder ; and when thou fe'pestsin, look at Christ’s grace which did pardon it ;and when thou art proud, look at Christ’s grace)that shall bumble and strike thee down in thedust.Remember Christ’s time of love, when thouwast naked, Ezekiel, xvi. 8, 9, and then he chosethee. Canst thou ever have a proud thought?—Remember whoso arms supported thee fromsinking, and delivered thee from the lowest hell,Ps. Lxxxvi. 13: and shout in the ears of angelsand men, Ps. cxlviii. and for ever sing, “ Praise;praise, grace, grace.” Daily repent and pray;and walk in the spirit of grace as one that haththe anointing of grace upon thee. Rememberthy sins, Christ’s pardoning ; thy deserts, Christ’smerits; thy weakness, Christ’s strength; thypride, Christ’s humility ; thy many infirmities,Christ’s restorings ; thy guilt, Christ’s new ap¬plications of his blood; thy failings, Christ’sraisings up; thy wants, Christ’s fulness; thytemptations, Christ’s tenderness; thy vileness,Christ’s righteousness.Blessed soul! whom Christ shall find nottrusting in his own righteousness, Phil. iii. 9,but having his robes washed and made white inthe blood of the Lamb, Rev. vii. 14. Woeful,miserable professor, that hath not the gospelwithin ! Rest not in church trials ; thou mayostpass them, and be cast away in Christ’s day oftrial. Thou mayest come to baptism, and nevercome to Jesus and the blood of sprinkling, Heb,zii. 24, Whatever working or attainments, short21l *f Christ’s blood, merits, righteousness, (the' main object of the gospel) fall short of tho truth,i and leave tho soul in a condition of doubtingsi and questionings ; and doubtings, if not lookedinto betimes, -will turn to a lightness of spirit,: one of the most dangerous of frames.Trifle not with ordinances. Be muck, in medi-J tation and prayer. Wait diligently bpon allhearing opportunities. We have need of doctrine,'reproof, exhortations, consolation, as tenderi herbs and the grass hath of the rain, the dew, thesmall rain, and the showers, Deut. xxxii. 2. Dohall thou doest as soul-work unto Christ, Zech.i vi. 5, 6; as immediately dealing with Chriiti Jesus ; as if he were looking on thee, and thou• on him, and get all thy strength from him.Observe what holy motions you find in yourfisoul to duties ; prize the least good thought thoui! hast of Christ, the least good word thou speakestI of him sincerely from thy heart. Rich mercy !I Oh! bless God for it! Observe if every day| you have the Day-spring from on high, with hisi morning dews of mourning for sin, constantlyr visiting thee, Luke, i. 78. Have you the bright! Morning-star, with fresh influences of grace and0peace, constantly arising, Rev. xxii. 16, andUChrist sweetly greeting the soul in all duties?^What duty makes not more spiritual, will makeimiore carnal; what doth not quicken and humble,infill deaden and harden.Judas may have the outward privilege ofHbaptism, the supper, church-fellowship, <fcc., buti John leaned on Christ’s bosom, John, iii. 23 ;Sithat is the gospel-ordinance posture, in whichawe should pray and hoar, and perform all duties.ilNothing but lying in that bosom will dissolv*nhardness of heart, and make theo to mourn< Wrtily for sin and cure lightness and indiffereno*ftof spirit, that gangrene to profession ; that wtthumble indeed, and make the soul cordial to(yhrifit, and sin rile to the soul; yea, transformthe ugliest place of hell into the glory of Christ.Never think thou art right as thou shouldst be,a ChristiEiS. cf any attainment, until thou come tothis, always to see and feei thyself lying in thebosom of Christ, who is in the bosom of hisFather, John, i. 18. Como and pray the Fatherfor views of Christ, and you will be sure tospeed. You can come with no request thatpleaseth him better. He gave him out of hisown bosom for that very end, to be held upbefore the eyes of sinners, as the everlastingmopiument of his unspeakable love.Looking at the natural sun weakens the eye.The more you look at Christ, the Sun of righte¬ousness, the stronger and clearer will,the eye offaith be. Look but at Christ, you will love him,and live upon him. Think on him continually,—keep the eye, constantly upon Christ’s blood, orevery blast pf temptation will shake you. If yousee sin’s sinfulness, to loath it and mourn, do notstand looking upon sin, but look upon Christfirst, as suffering and satisfying for it. If youwould spo your graces, your sanctification, donot stand gazing upon them, but look at Christ’srighteousness in the first place,—see the Son,and you see all,—look at your graces in thelast place.Go to Christ in sight of your sin and misery,not of your grace and holiness. Have nothing todo with thy gracps and sanctification, they willbjut veil Christ, till thou hast seen Christ first.He that looks _ upon Christ through his graces, islike one that sees the sun in water, whichwavereth, -and , moves as the water doth. Lookupon Christ only as shining in the firmament of28tho Father's love au,d grace, you will not soo hnnhut in his own glory, which is unspeakable.Pride and unbelief 'will put you upon secim;somewhat in yourself first, but faith will have todo with none but Christ, who is unexpressiblyglorious, and must swallow up thy sanctificationas well as thy sin: for Cf6d made him both forus, and we must take him for both, 1 Cor. i. 30.2 Cor. v. 21. He that sets up his sanctificationto look at, to comfort him, he sets up the greatestidol, which will strengthen his doubts and fears.Do but look off Christ, and presently, like Peter,you sink in doubt.A Christian .never wants comfort but bybreaking the order and method of the gospel,1 looking on his own, and looking off Christ’s per¬fect righteousness, which is* to choose rather tolive by candlelight than by the light of the sun.The honey that you suck from your own righte-> ousness will turn into perfect gall; and the light; that you take from that to walk in will turn intoblack night upon the soul. Satan is temptingthee, by putting thee to plod about thine owngrace, to get comfort from that; then the Fathercomes and points thee to Christ’s grace, as richand glorious, infinitely pleasing to him; andbiddest thee study Christ’s righteousness; andhis biddings are enablings; that is, a blessedj (motion, a sweet whispering, checking thy belief—3 follow the least hint, close with much prayer,prize it as an invaluable jewel ; it is an earnestof more to come. Again,If you will pray, and cannot, and are so dis-uraged, see Christ praying for you, using hisinterest with the Father for you. What can youant? John, xiv. 7, and chap. xvii. If youjibe troubled, see Christ your peace, Eph. ii. 14.i Leaving you peace when ho went up to heaven.24again and again charging you not to be troubled;no not in the least sinfully troubled ; so asto obstruct the comfort of thy believing, John,xiv. 1, 27. He is now upon the throne, havingspoiled upon his cross, in the lowest state of hishumiliation, all whatsoever can hurt or annoythee; he hath borne all thy sins, sorrows,troubles, and temptations, and is gone to preparemansions for thee.Then who hast seen Christ all, and thyselfabsolutely nothing who makest Christ all thylife, and art dead to all righteousness besides,thou art a Christian, one highly beloved, anwho hath found favour with God, a favourite ofheaven. I)o Christ this one favour,for all hi*love to thee; love all his poor saints andchurches, the meanest, the weakest, notwith¬standing any difference in judgment, they areengraven on his heart, as the names of thechildren of Israel on Aaron’s breast-plate ; Ex.xxviii. 21. Let them be so on thine. Play forthe peace of Jerusalem; they shall prosper thatlove thee, Ps. exxii. 6.