CHEAP TRAC 1’ S,;j Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli*gion. Virtue, aid. Humanity.No. II.MARIA:OR, THEWandererReclaim’d- ■ • 4‘.’ •AN AFFECTING STORYOF A YOUNG LAD7 ;rHio wa^ Seduced from her ‘Father’s house, the treat*'ment She met with, the deplorable Situation to whicfeIII She was reduced, her Vicious life aud its borible con-, fcquences, until She was providentially found by *Humane Gentleman in the Streets ; by whole direc*[i Uon and favour, She was admitted into a place of Re-<t] ■ fuge aird Safety, from the haunts of mifery and Vice.WROTE BY HERSELFIn Two PartsTo which is'aMeif*he Fatal effefls of Guilty Love*DUNBAR:Printed by G. Miller :—at whofo Shop may be bad a varietyU Pamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pictures, Catjchiunv, > C,WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.MARIA &c.Part I. -0 think yc/u are a father ; foft indulgeneeBecomes that name; tho' nature give you pvw'rTo bind her duty, ’tis with filken cords :Command fcr, then, as you command yourfelf;She is as much a part of you, as areTour appetite and willand thefe you force not.But gently bend, and make them pliant to your reafon-Drvdek.UNSKILLED in the ways of writing,I am unable to polifh what I pen ; no¬thing but the ardefinefs of my tale, and myfincsre willi to warn, and to profit my un¬happy fillers in forrow and fhame, can apo¬logize for me. I have often heard and readof light houfes and beacons erecfled for the ufeof failors, t;o dired them in their voyages,and to preferve them from fands and fbelves,and rocks. And as I have fatally tbipwreck-cd myfelf, my hearty deiire is to hold up alight to warn and dired others from thoferocks and lands to which I owe my ruin.C 3 )I am that pcrfon, of whom SaHy M —»grateful Magdalen^ fpeaks in her fir ft let-pr, as a comfortable inftance of the blefiingsf the Magdalen charity i my reception into'hich, has, under God, faved a poor ma¬iler's life, who before was haftening to theirave, beneath a load of at^guilh and mife--k—Bleffed, for ever blefled be the day, onihich I hrft heard of that humane proyifionr fuch wretched outcafts as myfelf: bleflcdr ever blefled be the hour, on which i cn«bred thofe doors of mercy, of comfort, andi:ace 1 Oh, believe me, v/hen I fay that hadmot been for this houle of refuge, moft pro-:.bly my miferable cxiftence on earth hadpen long fince ended, and my fate irreco-inrably fealed in the regions of punifhment:r. grey hairs of my widowed mother hadten brought down with forrow to the grave;ifch of us ftrangers to that divine mercy,>ich now fills our hearts with the moft;‘ raring hope.I am one of thofe who can verify thenet’s remark, with refpeft to our fex,—>it* jit hat one falfe ftqp entirely damns oyrme.” Since to one falfe ftep 1 owe the;;ig chain of calamities, which were linked•| I,ether from that unhappy error. But atfame time that I avow my own fault; lmot but fay that the feverity of my fa*> r occafionedmy worft diftrefs, and render-1 my ruin irretrievable. Surely there is( 4 )fowe medium between the implacabilitynnforgivenels, and the too eafy lenity, whichinvites to offend. Surely there are wife pa¬rents who can difcern thehappv mean betwixtthe fevere rule, which terrifies; and theweak indulgence, which produces contempt.Unhappily for me, my dear father was aftranger to this medium. He had very highnotions of the parental authority, and wascontinually extolling to the Ikies thofc uader-flanding ftates, as he called them, whichgave into the hands of the parent unlimitedpower over the child, even the power oflife and death. He had not the leaft ideaof governing by love : he thought fear thebeft' fecurity of duty, and would conftamlycomplain that the notorious difobedience ofchildren, and their fancy pertnefs (as neltiledit, though others would have named it onlya becoming familiarity) arofe from a relaxation of the parental authority; and if pa¬rents were fo mad, (he would continue) asjj1to give the reins out of their own into thhands of their children, they mull not bejfurprized, if their children drove themfelves|into ruin, and their parents into the deepefgulph of forrow.Confiantly accuftomed to thefe leffons.,sever allowed to enter into his prefencbut with the mofl reverential courtesynever peimitted to fpeak to him, but witcthe folemn appellation of, Si*' j very rarclC 5 0indulged in any of thofe pleafures .whichilj were agreeable to ray fcx and age ; and ifI indulged, fure to fufFer for it, by fo ft rid:i a Scrutiny into my conduct, as no child’s:j condud: perhaps would bear ; as well as byilfuch remonftrances and tallcs, as (I am ferryijto fay it) rendered my father of ail objectsII the moft fearful and unpleafmg to me; 1;;grew up to my ftxteenth year (fatal aera ofjmy forrows) inheriting ftrong pafiions fromjboth my parents ; aad with little hopes ofproperly gratifying that, which in livelyyoung girls, of my age, is generally moft(predominant. My mother, whom 1 ten-ijderly loved, and with the jufteft realon, wasimo lefs afraid of my father than myfelf : ftu:ilived under- an iron-rule indeed; but hadafenfe enough, and meeknefs enough, to(difeern and conform herfell to my father’stemper, fo that (he feldom contradiided him;and proved but a forry advocate for herslaughter, when under the harrow, as wasjlilmeft every day the case. And as (he was'l|v breeding women, her attention was a goodpeal taken up by the little ones, as nurfingas my moft agreeable entertainment. Buthis alone was not fufficient: 1 was led there-bre to frequent the kitchen upon all oe-:afions; and the converfations of the fer--I’ants became moft agreeable to me. Forfiey would often flatter my vanity, aud fpeak•j ell of my perfon; and one of the maids in-Ifif( 6 )particular gave me information of many!things, which ferved to haften my ruin, by|enflaming my defircs, already fufficiemly|warm.1 lliould have told you, that my fatherJioriginally bred to the law, but neither qua-[lifted for, nor fond of his profeflion, had|given over all attention to it, and fettledjhimfclfina village not many miles frondLondon ; having a fufficient fortune to livefin decent retirement. We kept two maids Jand a man, who was a kind of Scrub, foot-Jman, butler, gardener, all things by turns,!and nothing well. In the parifh church,!the mod public place 1 frequented, a gentlc-fman of pleafing appearance one Sunday at-tradfed my notice ; attracted it the ratherJbecaufe 1 quickly perceived, with no Imalllfatisfadlion, that 1 had attrafled his. Hc|was a lodger (1 foon found out) for theffummer feafon in our village. This was,,all I could learn concerning him. I was;impatient for the following Sunday. Thqwifhed-for day arrived. Again the geatle-:man was at church. And his wholc^atten-ttion and devotion feemed to be offered to1me. But can i exprefs the foolilh elatioai|iof heart, I felt, when in the evening thclimaid (whom I mentioned above, as a ready)inftrudrefs flipt a letter into my hand, and)told me, it was from a gentleman, who hadl;fallen in love with me at church. Thus be ||gan our amour.■ : ( 7}But 1 will not tire you with the repetitionof circumftances (the writer of Clarijfa mightmake a volume of them.) Suffice it to lay,that we met again & again, by the interpofitionof this maid: he vowed eternal faith and con-ftancy ; he vowed, and 1 had not the leaddoubt of his veracity. My heart was per¬fectly his. Soon as he perceived this, hepreffed for a confummation of our happinefs,for which 1 longed no lefs ardently, theH heprofeffed to do : and declaring bis motiveswholly honourable, propofed at laft, that Ifliould run away with him from my father'£heufe ; as there were no hopes of procuringhis confertT, whofe cruel treatment of*nte henever faded to aggiavate ; and he declared,that as foon as we got to London, he wouldmake me his wife.— The offer was too plea-fing to be rejected ; it was a deliverance fromworfe than .^Egyptian bondage^ and amidftall his dilcourles on paternal authority, myfather had not taught me the obligations offilialduty; 1 refolvejd to comply; loveffrength-ened my refolution : my mind applauded it.1 had not the leaft apprehenfion of aught,but confummate felicity.; yet weakly andmadly thought, that come what would comp,1 could never be in a worle or more uncalyfituation than under my father’s ftern frown,Alas, how hath experience fhown me mymiflake ! Would God, all children mightlearn from me, that the aufteriry of a parent( S )is no excufe lor disobedience and that fuchdifobedience very rarely dcapes without pu-irifluBent ?In a word, 1 went off with Mr. G * * *,and left in evil hour the houfesfmy parents.He conveyed me to a lodging prepared forme in town, where 1 was kept up and con¬cealed with all imaginable (ecrefy, in theutmoft dread of difcovery. My lover b«-.baved with the greatcft tendeinefs and re¬gard. And we talked of nothing but thedeft red moment, ^when marriage fhotildmake us one: but how were all my joysdamped, when he told me, on the fecondeiorning after my coming to town, that hewas under the moft perplexing uneafiness :fmee by means of the execrable new marriagea<ft, it was impoffible for us to get married !my heart was almoft broken, and 1 had thenthe firft presages or my future forrow. How¬ever he afiuaged my grief, by unutterablefondnefs and the mofl fincerely Teeming at¬tachment, and promifed to ufe every effortto accomplilh the defired end ; Iwearing withthe eneigy of falQiood, that liie without theenjoyment of vie would not be worth haw¬ing.—A week paffed on in this dire fufpence;and what added to my uneafineis, was thelight.of advertisements in the papers frommy difconsolate friends,—an heart-breakingmother, and an anxious father,—who ear-neftly intreated either my return, or someinformation concerning me. Filial fore, 1,11 MX 9 )ihen found, was not extingnif^ed in myinreaft ; and the pangs 1 felt myself, from thelicnse of their uneafiness, abundantly cOnvin*!;ed me, of what they mtift feel. But to re-lurn to them was impoffible : 1 could not, Iilared not : 1 wifhed to do so, but my very•yifhes affrightened me. And befides Mr,'|G whom 1 paflionately loved, rejeded thebought with the greateft difdain ; and toldne, he fhould conftrue my entertainment oft, as a disguft to,^nd disapprobation of hitruitThis was sufficient to expel it entirely. He||rew every day more & more affiduous : butevery day he advanced in freedoms, which 1fflid not much disapprove. At length he beganIj'jo talk in a ftrain, I was obliged to diflike,find to exprefs my diflike of.—-For, Godxnpws,, I had no thoughts but of the molt'.lurtuous fort : and therefore when he b^ganSo declaim concerning the ufeleffnefs of,i lpriefls, the union of hearts, the freedom of:l;Jove, and the like; I boldly told him, thats he had engaged to make me his wife, andis l had taken loch a ftep in proof of myiltffedfion, 1 expe&ed, jhat he would foonxunplete his promife, or 1 muft be obliged,:eVrible as it was, to return to my father.—^Vhat followed ydu fliall hear.Parii1 II. >'.-0—<——rttW belter can ioe di, than projlra+e fahBefore him reverent; and then confefsHumbh our faults, and pardon beg, with tearsWat’ring the ground; and with ourftghs the airFrequenting, font from hearts contrite, infxgnOffor row unfeigned, and humiliation, meek.Milton.MY refolntion had (as I fancied) thedefired effedt. Mr. G** told me,he would exert all his endeavours to accom-plifh our wifhes; and fwearing eternal raith,cOmftancy and love, profdfed the mod hon¬ourable intentions. The next evening hecame to me with the higheft gaiety of fqul;and fcarre entered the room before he pro¬duced a paper, which had all the appearance ;and form of a licence. A fpccial one, heallured me, it was ; and a clergyman, headded, would foon attend to join cur hands,and give me to hir arms. 1 had fcruples,but be removed them: for, alas! how readi¬ly do we credit what we wifh to be true ;and-diow cafy was it to impofe on a y«unggirl who knew nothing of t hefe matters ? Aclergyman came in lefs than an hou; ; butI mud freely confefs, that his miferabie ap-‘pearance fliockedand alarmed me; though( n )I have often ftnce feen many fuch, deplor¬able to behold, in the ftreets of this city.Mr. G**told me, “That he was an affiftant' to the pariflt curate’s ajjijlant; and, as hispay was but fmall, his wigs could not beexpe&ed to abound with curl, nor his gown;with blackncfs. But that his poverty madeno difference; the ceremony was as validrwhen performed by him, as by the belt-pow¬dered dean, or moft downy dodor in Eng¬land.”-—Mr. G***s good humour andfprightlinefs, which I attributed to his paf-| fion, difpoiWd every idea of doubt or appre-I henfion Irom my brcaft: the mumbling priclt;I muttered over the ceremony ; my maid andMr. G**’s man were our attendants; theprieft was difmifled; reludtance was nomore; and, we were—for 1 had no confci-oufnefs of guilt—we were moft bleft.Mr. G** continued faithful and fond;but I muft fieely confefs I was far fromhappy, hiving when my fadder reflectionswere diflipated by his company, which Irarely enjoyed till the evening. The re-Bmembrance of my parents haunted me con¬tinually ; and though 1 wrote to let themIknow 1 was well, fafe, and married, yet Iwanted fomething more; I wanted to feethem and be reconciled. This Mr. G**convinced riie was impoffible; for I nowwas informed by him, that his own was xftate of perfect dependance; that an uncle,C 12, )'his only friend, had procured him a placein one of the public offices, and was ufmgbis intereft to advance him : but that if hefhould he informed of his marriage, hewould utterly reject him; apd thus hefhould lofe all his future profpedts—Hisintereft was fo much mine, that I readilyacc^uiefced : but the knowledge of his cir- ,cumftances rendered' me anxious and care-ful; and few women in my ftate, I believe,would have lived with greater oeconomy.Indeed 1 had very little realon to be ex- Jpenfive ; for 1 faw, 1 could fee, no company. |1 found that I was generally efteem.ed by Ithe fober neighbourhood in an offenfivecharader ; and, therefore, 1 could make no l>acquaintance with them : and I had no in- 1clination to affociate with the abandoned, llloft to reputation ; fince I knew, (or at Ileaft imagined) there was no blot upon myown. My maid, and the good woman ofthe h6ufe where I lodged, .were all my ac« -quaintance ; and a walk,"in the dufk of the Ievening, my only refrefhment and recrea- Ilion. Mr. G** would now and then bring Ia gentleman to pafs the evening ; but their ttconverfation was generally too loofe for me |tfir// to relifh ; and I was apt to be difpleafed jjwith him, for allowing his friends fome liber-11ties with me, which 1 thought did not agree ■with the delicacy of a hufband. Mr. S* in Iparticular feeined my hufband’s favourite ; I:C 53 *)i:amc with him the moft frequently; was moftiduous to attract my notice; and was byar the mofl agreeable man that vifited us.In this manner a twelvemonth paffed:fcaway; and as I had brought Mr. G** a fine'little girl, theneceffary attention to thisfweet .•ibabe rendered my fitnation much more com-< forcible. But one evening Mr. G^*, by hintfollowing hint, alarmed my fulpidt>ns ; andat length led me to know, that-his uncle hadjj procured a eonfiderable place for him. fome-jwherc in America, whither he mult fpeedilypail, though not without hopes, he added,fnof a happy return to me in proper time.—I judge, Sir, what 1 felt upon this information.• —My blood grew cold ; my heart, was readyto burft; my limbs trembled; 1 faintedji away ! Oh that 1 had died ! would God,I that I had died that moment! Oh that 1 had[1 never more recovered from that fwoos—re¬covered to mifery and guilt, to poverty andwoe, to fin and forrow 1 Oh that my eyes ne¬ver more had opened to the f’cene of anguifhbefore me !—_ It was to no purpofe that 1 entreated orcomplained ; that 1 upbraided or befought;that 1 pleaded the calls of the mother, or thewife; refpeftingeach, hedropped fomethingswhich diocked my inmoft foul ; and, af¬ter a night, a night of fuch horror, asl wilhno poor young woman may ever experietise,he left me aad 1 was undone !C 14 )For net many Honrs after his deparUirejMr. S* his friend (whom 1 mentioned before) |brought me the following letter, which 1 * iwill give you in his awn words.My dear Molly,J AM forry our hard fates oblige us to part; fbu« there is no remedy. If 1 had ftaid 1in England, you would have ftill kept me iconftant; but as it is, you muft endeavour 1to make the belt on’t. 1 make Mr. S** the Ibearer, and recommend him to yourkindnefs;. he will deferve it: and he brings you thelaft prefent 1 (hall be able to fend you. Youhave been under a great miftake in fuppofingyourfelf my wife. That could not be. Mr.S** will set you right in that affair. . 1 wouldadvise you to send the child you have hadto the Foundling Hospital: and if you don’tapprove Mr. S**, your beft way will be to Sreconcile yourself to your parents. Youmay make up a good ftory enough, and lay |all the blame on the faithlefs man. Though 11 hope you will at all times do me the juflice ||to own, that if you had not run away withme from your father’s, the reft could not havefollowed. You are young, and may yet make |your fortune, which will be a pleafure to meto hear, in the moft diftant parts of theworld.1 am your former lover,T.G**.1•: is )JEvery word of this letter was keerer thaula dagger ; and all this from the man 1 loved,above all things !—who could support it ?'However, there is a curiofity even in lorrow;<iwe are anxious to know the wor/l. Mr. S*infoneied me that the licence was forged ; &t\\e priejt, a vile pander, who, at Mr. G**’sfollicitation, had hired the wig and habit ofan old clergyman for a pot of porter; andthat the whole was a device to conquer myivirtue. Worthy conqueft truly ! Inhuman'jifavage, boaft thy fubtlety and fuccefs!You cannot wonder that abhorrence toolj,i the place of affe&ioh ; and .that no monfterIrin nature appeared equally fhocking, equallyirmcriting deteftation, in my judgment, withi this cruel, cruel man l Mr. S* found littlefatisfa^hon in my company, for I was diftrac-tted :—I wept, I raved ; reaion was loll, hopedeemed to have forfaken me ; 1 gave myleltijiup to all the anguifh of defpair.But as nothing violent can lafl long, myliad reflexions b^gan to calm ; and indeed Iwas fummoned by neceffity to (crious delibe-:ration. For as Mr. G**’s income never fup-plied me with much affluence, fo my want|of money foon (hewed itfelf to my maid andmay landlady. The former gave me warningijand left me ; and to incrcafe my troubles,3j:ook. off with her feveral of my befd tilings,rhe latter grew clamorous for hei rent, andJgave me to know, that fhe muft expert to be( i6 )piid weekly for her lodgings; or fhe muflbe obliged to part with me. I refuted, inmy racing, the laft money from G**, whichMr. S* offered $ and he kept from me forfome time, the better, 1 fuppofe, to prey up¬on my neceffrties. In this diftrefs 1 wrote tomy father : and not willing to deferibe myreal cafe, fued for a reconciliation; he tentme an anfwer (the firftl had received, afterfeveral letters to himj toll of the mote fevereupbraidings; and foon after 1 received onenot much lefs fevere, from my mother ; inwhich die gave me but very poor hopes ofmy father’s forgiveness, adding how unableas 1 knew, fhe was to do any thing on mybehalf: and giving me much advice, which,alas, was weak and impracticable.In this fltuation my landlady found meone day, weeping over my sweet unhappybabe, & feeding it, while, God knows, 1 hadscarce any food for myself : when untouch¬ed by compafifion. fhe told me, that i muftleave her house the next morning, as fhe hadlet the lodgings to some people of credit.My spirits were gone, and while tears filled,my eyes, 1 told her, “ It was very weH : 1wGu.ld prepare.” She left me to my sorrow.1 bedewed my dear child, (who smiled, un¬conscious of diftress, upon me) bedewed herwith mv tears : and resolved, as a wretchedoutcaft, to take my babe, and throw myselfvith it at my father’s door. This was theresolution of despair.( 17 )ir was at this time of diftrefs, tfeat Mr. S*eturned ; whom I had not ieen for nearvhree weeks : you may eafily imagine, thatI he prefcnt he brought, was welcome and notiefufcd now : he made many .apologies fori-jiis abfence ; told me, he had been on a jour-ey, which kept him fo long from, me ; be¬an to talk much of love, and to make me.Such offers, as 1 fear, many women, in myad date, could not have refufed. The fe-rere, 1 know, will condemn me ; they can-pot condemn me fo much as 1 condemn my-fl’elf. But any alternative was preferable toi return to my parents, as 1 had no hopes ofilariy fuccefs, or admiflion. And 1 could notiijbear to fee my pretty ihnocent either taken1 from me, or ill-treated : much lefs could 1Shear to fee it under the miseries of want.IHowever I held out, as long as my moneyaremained, and then the profpedt of bitterIneceflity, and being again turned from my•iilodgings, (for I had quitted the former at(ilthe time appointed, nor could 1 have flayedwith the favage landlady on any account)tlthis fad and terrifying profpedt got the betterof my refolution; and 1 made the firfl flep inknown and voluntary guilt.When this is the cafe,- the confcience be¬gins to grow hardened, or however we areIds chfgufled at vice, and are not afraid togrow familiar with it. Mr. S* was very loofein his principles: andl grew loofe as himfdf.( iS.)The company of women in my own circnilftances, once deteftable, was now covetjlvby me, and became agreeable. 1 drefletf|i.alked, 1 appeared like them. 1 began || -’ have no objechoR lo more wine than ulaai;and, in Ihort, made hafty and large fteps i|the broad road to deftru&ion. Mr. S*, whilhe came to our lodgings, frequently f6ui|.me from home, and frequently in compailwhich he did not feem to approve. lmagi:|ing ! could better my fortune, I grew regartjilefs of him. He caft me off: and 1 let iffor myfelf! Miferable and thoughtlefs !-|As I was agreeable, I wanted not what v?|call company ! But 1 loon found, that thfway of life was beyond imagination horriblej-Riot, intemperance, furfeit and difeafe, foa|became my familiars ! and, amiuitail, 1 wai!-a prifontr; for having contrafted feme debhj1 was feixed and conveyed to a. fpunging|houfe ; the mafter of which made up maiteiffor me*, as he pretended, and 1 gave him mlnote. Ajjote, l never could pay, and there):fore 1 took up my abode with him, and became a common wretch, a public nuifanceMy little girl had (hared her mother”fortune, and was with me in this horritheufe ; but whenever I beheld her, it wawith unutterable ferrovv, through oread thather fate Ihould be like mine ! At length;to confummate my mifery; after a hfc of thclmoft execrable iuffenng for four months.C r9 )Iduring which time I was obliged frequently,lin rain or Inow, froft or cold, to appear inIthe ftrects; at length, difeafed and diftreft,sftny mafter turned me out with my child !and pinched with hunger and diftemper, tcommenced beggar ! Reflection then beganpowerfully to do its work, and heaven andearth feemed (hut up ; every avenue of relief:or compaffion feemed clofed againft a wretch¬ed finner, finking beneath a load of horrorand guilt upon her head; againft a moftwretched mother, with an helplefs innocenti babe, about to periih with hunger jAs near four years had parted fince I leftltm-y father’s houfe, and my attempts haditproved fruitlefs to reconcile myfelf} in betterJlidays ; l dared not, 1 could not even admitIthe thought of going thither; jn this myi ftate of beggary, nakednefs and difeafe, 1i doubted whither 1 fliould be known ; I didmot doubt that I (liould berejeded, it known,I with indignation. My dittrefs was at itsiiiheight; though indeed the fierce demandscof hunger, especially of my child’s hunger,isalmoft suspended every other sensation. It«was in (his sad fituation, it was in theseli doleful circumftances that the gentleman sawu me, to whom I owe, under God, Irfe, sal-M vation, all things.—It I might be allowed,* with what joy would I mention : it I werei able, with vhat gratitude would 1 write his' name in letters of g/.'d ! How tompaflkmate.< 20 )ly did he bespeak me, as i sat a speftaclof pity On seme fteps in the ftreet ! an<with'what benevolent pleasure did he advisjme to haften to the Magdalen-Houfe, afterhad told my sad tale! indeed there was littlneed of advifing me ; for as that was the firtitime 1 had ever heard of so bleffed a placeso the hearing of it was like opening thf(gates of Paradise to me. This good mgave me all proper direftions ; told mwhere to find him j promifed to take carof my poor deferted babe : and in fhort,under his favour, I petitioned, and was ad-|mitted into the Magdakn-Houfe, to which Iowe the prefervation of my life on earth,and the falvation of my foul to eternity.For as l entered that houfe with a brokenheart and an humbled mind, truly confciousof all my paft offences, the good inftruiftionsI received entered the more forcibly, andmade a deeper impreflion. And I therefound to my comfort, that through penit.•ence, my fins may be done away, as my Re¬deemer is no lefs willing than able to favethe fincere and contrite; and to pardon ourpaft offences, however great, on true repen¬tance.—But, 1 muft add, thatl had not beenlong in the houfe, not long reftored, (I mayfay to myfelfj before, as duty obliged, Iwrote in the humbleft terms to inform myparents, and to implore their forgivenels.A letter was immediately returned from *ry( 21 )otaii other, but fuch a letter as almoft brokeiy heart. In it Cie acquaints me, that myther had been dead near a twelvemonth ;:id that fhe herfelfthen lay upon a fick.Tbed,i om whence ihe had fcarce any hopes ofeing raifed. That my behaviour had: rought her near to the grave, and that thet aily refleftion on my fhame and mifery hadErell nigh broke her heart. But the infor¬mation of my repentance had partly revivedijer; and that as (lie before fufpe&ed I wasIpongfl; the mod . abandoned,-fo now thetjontinuance of my good behaviour couldtilone prolong her life.—I need not tell you,hat I replied with all affection to this,nome other letters palled ; and in about twoInonths time, my dear, dear mother, cameto the Magdahn-Houfe to vibe me !But how can 1 deferibe that meeting !Shame and borrow rendered me a ilatue :maternal affe&ion, mingled grief and joy,flopped all her power of utterance ! SheItlang round my neck, 1 tenderly embraced'per, and fell upon my knees imploring for-jlkivenefs ! Hie burft into tears, and all fheShould fay was, “Oh my child} my child ! myj anhappy child !—oh my dear Maria—myIphild, my child !”—Thus, was 1 reconciled to the tendereftbf mothers : and the account Ihe heard of;py behaviour had fuch an influence upon'jlner health, that (he grew every day better1 and better.( 22 )But unable to live without me, as my re¬turn, (after having given me over for loft,)1 fuppofe, rendered me dearer to her;—fherequefted the gentleman, to permit me tocome to her ; and they, ever generous, andever humane, kindly permitted me to do fo,after 1 had been near eleven months in thehoufe : which 1 left with regret, as the placeof my reftoration and recoveiy to all thingsdefirable : and 1 now live with my mother,ftudious only to make her happy, and towipe oft'all pad ftains, as much as 1 may, bythe moft cxaft difcharge of every duty.While my conftant endeavour is and (hallbe to inftill into my poor unhappy child’smind, fuch principles of religion and virtueas 1 am well fatisfted, would have pretervedme from the diftrefs into which 1 fell, had1 been fo happy as to have known them be¬fore that fall.The Fatal effects of Guilty Love.BEAUTY, fho’ the gift of heav’n.How fatal to the fair !Ye maids ! attend to Sally’s tale.And of her fate beware.Sweet Sally, of her friends the boaft, 'A-child of pious vows.In youth to guilty love betray’d :Sad fourcc of all her woes '( 23 )r cheeks fhone as the blufliing rofe,■ler face like lilly fair :d none of all the flatter’d Belles;Vith Sally could compare.; Claro, young, and rich, and gay,der easy heart deceiv’d ;/ fwore he meant her for his bride,i md (he, fond maid 1 believ’d,i late fhe found her Claro falfcile’cr meant his oath to keep;» il|flie, once paft the brink of vice,:i lung’d headlong in the deep. ,: r and remorse at times awoke,Ind tore her trembling breaft;•.:|ie<5tion fear’d her waking thoughts,'ilnxrk dreams difturb’d her reft,t: r finned ftill—yet ftill deplor’dI'he wretched life fhe led,ev’ry thought of heav’n was loft,.nd hope of mercy ilea.Claro ficken’d—the hour came,/hen he muft’yield his breath :'iitftant be a victim sunku the cold arms of death,me dead blent hour of night,!/"hen angels watch the good,Dher the ghoft of Claro came,^refs’d in a fable ihroUd.(»n her eyes, now all forlorn.It) flumber juft had crept :Iihaunted fancy found no reft",-it irkfome vigils kept.(*24)Sfoe faw ber lover pale and wan :Her lover now no more ;And threat’ning were his haggard looks :Death’s frightful mein he wore.She heard a voice, or thought (he heard.As death-hell’s folemn knell,From coafts of black defpair I come,\Yhere horrors ever dwell:—“ 1 hade (he faid) unto the (hades :“ A (bort abrupt adieu !<c To-morrow you p} all be 'with me,"—Then vaailh’d from her view.She wakes—(he darts—and thrice Ihe calfAloud on Claro’s name :Repofe her weary eyes forfook.Cold tremors (eiz’d her frame.Still in her ears, thro’the long night.The d;fmal accents rung :Pale was the maid when morning dawn’dAnd fauh’ring was her tongue.As fnow before the fcorching fun,Her wafting fpirits fail’d ;Her friends aifembling round her bed.Her haplefs end bewail’d.She dies—her heart now ceai’d to beat.The purple tide to flow ;They ftretch’d her out a breathlds corpdr.In fad and (ilent woe.Ye who frequent the play and ball.Each gay and?thoughtlefs fair !Attend to Sally’s mornful tale.And of her fate beware!FINISi hy G Miilpr, Dunbat.