IT ^ LI AN REVENGEGLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSTHEIRON SHROUD.The castle of the Prince of Tolfi was built on theisummit of the towering and precipitious rock of'Scylla, and commanded a magnificent view of Sicily: iin all its grandeur. Here during the wars of the:middle ages, when the fertile plains of Italy weredevastated by hostile factions, those prisoners wereji; confined, for whose ransom a costly price was de-t : niand'ed. Here, too, in a dungeon, excavated deep[jin the solid rock, the miserable victim was immur-led, whom, revenge pursued,—the dark, fierce, andn unpitying rpvenge of an Italian heart.VivenziO'—the noble, and the generous, the fear-<) less in battle, and the pride of ^Naples in her sunnyPj hours of peace—the young, the brave, the proud,j Vivenzio fell beneath this subtile and remorselessaj spirit. He was the prisoner of Tolfi, and hej| languished in that rock-encircled dungeon, whichIj stood alone, and whose portals never opened twiceli upon a living captive.It had the resemblance of a vast cage, for the^ roof, and floor, and sides, were of iron, solidlyf wrought, and spaciously constructed. High abovef there ran a range of seven grated windows, guard-1, ed with massy bars of the same metal, which ad-1 mitted light and air. Save these, and the tall4folding doors beneath them, which occupied thecentre, no chink, or chasm, projection, broke thesmooth black surface of the walls. An iron bed¬stead, littered with straw, stood in one corner ; andbeside it, a vessel with water, and a coarse dishifilled with coarser food.Even the intrepid soul of Vivenzio shrunk withdismay as he entered this abode, and heard the:ponderous doors triple-locked by the silent ruffians!who • conducted him to it. Their silence seemedprophetic of his fate, of the living grave that hadbeen prepared for him. His menaces and his en¬treaties, his indignant appeals for justice, and hisimpatient questioning of their intentions, were alikevain. They listened, but spoke not. Fit ministersof a crime that should have no tongue!How dismal was the sound of their retiring steps!And, as their faint echoes died along the windingpassages, a fearful presage grew within him, thatnever more the face, or voice, or tread, of man,would greet his senses. He had seen human beingsfor the last time! And he had looked his last uponthe bright sky, and upon the smiling earth andupon a beautiful world he loved and whose minionhe had been! Here he was to end his life—a lifehe had just begun to revel in! And by whatmeans? By secret poison? or by murderousassault ? No—for then it had been needless tobring him thither. Famine perhaps—a thousanddeaths in one ! It was terrible to think of it—butit was yet more terrible to picture long, long yearsof captivity in a solitude so appalling, a lonelinessso dreary, that thought, for want of fellowship,would lose itself in madness, or stagnate intoidiocy.He could not hope to escape, unless ho had thepower, with his bare hands, of rending asunder thesolid iron walls of his prison. He could not hopei for liberty from the relenting mercies of his enemy.; His instant death, under any form of refined cruelty,r was not the object of Tolfi, for he might have in-! flicted it, and he had not. It was too evident,therefore, he was reserved for some premeditatedscheme of subtile vengeance ; and what vengeancecould transcend in fiendish malice, either the slow' death of famine, or the still slower one of solitaryincarceration, till the last lingering spark of life) expired, or reason fled, and nothing should remainto perish but the brute functions of the body ![ It was evening when Vivenzio entered his dun-I gcon, and the approaching shades of night wrappedit in total darkness, as he paced up and down, re¬volving in his mind these horrible forebodings.No tolling bell from the castle, or from any neigh¬bouring church or convent struck upon his ear totell how the hours passed. Frequently he wouldI stop and listen for some sound that might betokenthe vicinity of man ; but the solitude of the desert,the silence of the tomb, are not so still and deep asthe oppressive desolation by which he was encom¬passed. His heart sunk within him, and he threwliimself dejectedly upon his couch of straw. Heresleep gradually obliterated the consciousness ofmisery, and bland dreams wafted his delightedspirit to scenes which were once glowing realitiesfor him, in whose ravishing illusions he soon lostthe remembrance that he was Tolfi’s prisoner.When he awoke, it was daylight ; but how longhe had slept he knew not. It might be early morn¬ing, or it might be sultry noon, for he could measure’ time by no other note of its progress than light anddarkness. He had been so happy in his sleep,6amid friends that loved him, and sweeter endear¬ments of those who loved him as friends could not,that in the first moments of waking, his startledmind seemed to admit the knowledge of his situa¬tion as if it had burst upon it for the first time, freshin all its appalling horrors. He gazed round withan air of doubt and amazement, and took up a hand¬ful of the straw upon which he lay, as though howould ask himself what it meant. But memory,too faithful to her office, soon unveiled the melan¬choly past, while reason, shuddering at the task,flashed before his eyes the tremendous future.The contrast overpowered him. He remained forsome time lamenting, like a truth, the bright visionsthat had vanished ; and recoiling from the present,which clung to him as a poisoned garment.When he grew more calm, he' surveyed hisgloomy dungeon. Alas ! the stronger light of dayonly served to confirm what the gloomy indistinct¬ness of the preceding evening had partially dis¬closed, the utter impossibility of escape. As,however, his eyes wandered round and round, andfrom place to place, he noticed two circumstanceswhich excited Ins surprise and curiosity. The one,he thought might be fancy ; but the other, waspositive. His pitcher of water, and the dish whichcontained his food, had been removed from his sidewhile he slept, and now stood near the door.Were he even inclined to doubt this, by supposinghe had mistaken the spot where he saw them overnight, he could not, for the pitcher now in hisdungeon was neither of the same form nor colouras the other, while the food was changed for someother of better quality. He had been visitedtherefore during the night. But how had theperson obtained entrance ? Could he have slept so7roundly, that the unlocking and opening of thoseponderous portals were affected without wakingjiim ? He would have said this was not possible,out that in doing so, ho must admit a greaterilifticulty, on entrance by other means, of which heeras convinced there existed none. It was notintended, then, that he should be left to perishr from hunger. But the secret and mysterious mode- )f supplying him with food, seemed to indicate hef was to have no opportunity of communicating withi human being.EThe other circumstance which had attracted hislotice, was the disappearance, as he believed, ofone of the seven grated windows that ran along thejtop of his prison. He felt confident that he hadobserved and counted them ; for he was rathersurprised at their number, and there was somethingpeculiar in their form, as well as in the manner ofitheir arrangement, at equal distances It was soi much easier, however, to suppose he was mistaken,than that a portion of the solid iron, which formedthe walls, could have escaped from its position,(that he soon dismissed the thought from his(mind.Vivenzio partook of the food that was before'ihim, without apprehension. It might be poisoned ;(but if it were, he knew he could not escape death,should such be the design of Tolfi ; and the quickest1 death would be the speediest release.The day passed wearily and gloomily ; though(i hot without a faint hope that, by keeping watch atij night, he might observe when the person came againo to bring him food, which he supposed he would doj in the same way as before. The mere thought ofi being approached by a living creature, and the op-( portunity it might present of learning the doom8prepared, or preparing, for him, imparted somalcomfort. Besides, if he came alone, might he ncljin a furious onset overpower him ? Or he miglalbe accessible to pity, or the influence of suemunificient rewards as he could bestow, if onemore at liberty and master of himself. Say hwere armed. The worse that could befall, if nabribe, nor prayers, nor force prevaled, was a faith tful blow, which though dealt in a damned caus<might work a desired end. There was no chano iso desperate, but it looked lovely in Yivenzio’s eye tcompared with the idea of being totally abandoned 'The night came, and Yivenzio watched. Morning came, and Vivenzio was confounded! Hmust have slumbered without knowing it. Sleejmust have stolen over him when exhausted b;fatigue, and in the interval of feverish repose, Inhad been baffled ; for there stood his replenishec i:pitcher of water, and there his day’s meal! No;was this all. Casting his looks towards the windows of his dungeon, he counted but five ! therewas no deception ; and he was now convinced there |had been seven the day before. But what did ahthis portend? Into what strange and mysterious den ■had he been cast ? He gazed till his eyes ached;he could discover nothing to explain the mystery.That it was so, he knew. Why it was so, he rack¬ed his imagination in vain conjecture. He examin¬ed the doors. A single circumstance convinced himithat they had not been opened.A wisp of straw, which he had carelessly thrownagainst them the preceding day, as he paced toiand fro, remained where he had cast it, though it:must have been displaced by the slightest motionof either of the doors. This was evidence thatcould not bo disputed ; and it followed there must9: be some secret machinery in the walls by which a; person could enter. He inspected them closely.They appeared to him one solid and compactmass of iron ; or joined, if joined they were, withusuch nice art, that no mark of divison was percep¬tible. Again and again he surveyed them—andt the floor—and the roof—and the range of visionary; windows, and he was now almost tempted to con-H sider them ; he could discover nothing, absolutelyI nothing, to relieve his doubts or satisfy his curiosity.Sometimes he fancied that altogether the dungeonhad a more contracted appearance—that it lookedsmaller; but this he ascribed to fancy, and the im-I'pression naturally produced upon his mind by theundeniable disappearance of two of the windows.With intense anxiety, Yivenzio looked forwardto the return of night; and as it approached, heresolved that no treacherous sleep should againbetray him. Instead of seeking bis bed of straw,he continued to walk up and down his dungeon tilldaylight, straining his eyes in every directionthrough the darkness, to watch for any appearancethat might explain these mysteries. While thuslengaged, and as nearly as he could judge, (by thetime that afterwards elapsed before the morningcame in,) about two o’ clock, there was a slighttremulous motion of the floors. He stooped. Themotion lasted nearly a minute ; but it was so ex¬tremely gentle, that he almost doubted whether itwas real, or only imaginary. He listened. Not asound could be heard. Presently, however, he felt! a rush of cold air blow upon him ; and dashing to-i wards the quarter whence it seemed to proceed, hestumbled over something which he judged to bethe water ewer. The rush of cold air was nolonger perceptible ; and as Yivenzio stretched out10his hands, ho found himself close to the walls. Haremained motionless for a considerable time ; hutnothing occurred during the remainder of the nightto excite his attention, though he continued to watchwith unabated vigilance.The first approaches of the morning were visiblethrough the grated windows, breaking, with faintdivisions of light, the darkness that still pervadedevery other part, long before Yivenzio was enabledto distinguish any object in his dungeon. Instinc¬tively and fearfully he turned his eyes, hot andinflamed with watching, towards them. Therewere four ! He could see only four ; but it mightbe that some intervening object prevented the fifthfrom being perceptible ; and he walked impatientlyto ascertain if it were so. As the light strength¬ened, however, and penetrated every corner of thecell, other objects of amazement struck his sight..On the ground lay the broken fragments of thepitcher he had used the day before, and at a smalldistance from them, nearer the wall, stood, the onehe had noticed the first night. It was filled withwater, and beside it was his food. He was nowcertain, that, by some mechanical contrivance, anopening was obtained through the iron wall, andthat through this opening the current of air hadfound entrance. But how noiseless! For had afeather almost waved at the time, he must haveheard it. Again he examined that part of the wall:but both to sight and touch it appeared one evenand uniform surface, while to repeated and violentblows, there was no reverberating sound indicativeof hollowness.This perplexing mystery had for a time with¬drawn his thoughts from the windows ; but nowdirecting his eyes again towards them, he saw that11the fifth had disappeared in the same manner asthe preceding two, without the least distinguish¬able alteration of external appearances. The re¬maining four looked as the seven had originallylooked; that is, occupying, at irregular distances,the top of the wall on that side of the dungeon.The tall folding door, too, still seemed to stand be¬neath in the centre of these four, as it had at firststood in the centre of the seven. But he could nolonger doubt, what, on the preceding day, hefancied might be the effect of visual deception.The dungeon was smaller. The roof had lowered—and the opposite ends had contracted the inter¬mediate distance by a space equal, he thought, tothat over which three windows had extended. Hewas bewildered in vain imaginations to account forthese things. Some frightful purpose—some devil¬ish torture of mind or body—some unheard-ofdevice for producing exquisite misery, lurked, hewas sure, in what had taken place.Oppressed with this belief, and distracted moreby the dreadful uncertainty of whatever fate im¬pended, than he could be dismayed, he thought, bythe knowledge of the worst, he sat ruminating, hourafter hour, yielding his fears in succession to everyhaggard fancy. At last a horrible suspicion Hash¬ed across his mind, and he started up with a franticair. “Yes! ” he exclaimed, looking wildly roundhis dungeon, and shuddering as he spoke—“ Yes!it must be so! I see it!—I feel the maddeningtruth like scorching flames upon my brain 1 Eter¬nal God ?—support me ! It must be so !—Yes, yes,that is to be my fate ! Yon roof will descend! —these walls will hem me round—and slowly, slowly,crush me in their iron arms! Lord God! lookdown upon me, and in mercy strike me with in-12slant death! Oh fiend, devil—is this your re¬venge ?”He dashed himself upon the ground in agony ;—tears burst from him, and the sweat stood inlarge drops upon his face—he sobbed aloud—hetore his hair—he rolled about like one sufferingintolerable anguish of body, and would have bittenthe iron floor beneath him ; he breathed fearfulcurses upon Tolfi, and the next moment passionateprayers to heaven for immediate death. Then theviolence of his grief became exhausted, and he laystill, weeping as a child would weep. The twilightof departing day shed its gloom around him ere hearose from that posture of utter and hopelesssorrow. He had taken no food. Not one drop ofwater had cooled the fever of his parched lips.Sleep had not visited his eyes for six and thirtyhours. He was faint with hunger ; weary withwatching, and with the excess of his emotions.He tasted of his food ; he drank with avidity of thewater ; and reeling like a drunken man to his straw,cast himself upon it to brood again over the appal-ing image that had fastened itself upon his almostfrenzied thoughts.He slept. But his slumbers were not tranquil.He resisted, as long as he could, their approach ;and when, at last, enfeebled nature yielded to theirinfluence, he found no oblivion from his cares.Terrible dreams haunted him—ghastly visionsharrowed up his imagination—he shouted andscreamed, as if he already felt.the dungeon’s pon¬derous roof descending on him-—he breathed hardand thick, as though writhing between its ironwalls. Then would he spring up—stare wildlyabout him—stretch forth his hands to be sure heyet had space enough to live—and, muttering someISi incoherent word, sink down again, to pass throughithe same fierce vicissitudes of delirious sleep.The morning of the fourth day dawned upon[ lYivenzio. But it was high noon before his mindI shook off its stuper, or he awoke to a full con-isciousness of his situation. And what a fixed energy| of despair sat upon his pale features, as he cast hisI eyes upwards, and gazed upon the three windowsthat now alone remained! The three !—therewere no more!—and they seemed to number hisii| own alloted days. Slowly and calmly he next sur-||veyed the top and sides, and comprehended all themeaning of the diminished height of the former, aswell as of the gradual approximination of the latter.The contracted dimensions of his mysteriousprison were now too gross and palpable to be thejuggle of his imagination. Still lost in wonder atthe means, Vivenzio could put no cheat upon hisli reason, as to the end. By what horrible ingenuityit was contrived, that walls, and roof, and windowsshould thus silently and imperceptibly, withoutnoise, and without motion almost, fold, as it were,within each other, he knew not. He only knewthey did so ; and he vainly strove to persuade him¬self it was the intention of the contriver, to rackthe miserable wretch who might be immured there,with anticipation, merely, of a fate, from whichin the very crisis of his agony, he was to be re¬prieved.Gladly would he have clung even to this pos¬sibility, if his heart would have let him ; but hefelt a dreadful assurance of its fallacy. And whatmatchless inhumanity it was to doom the sufferer, to such lingering torments—to lead him day byI day to so appalling a death, unsupported by theJ consolations of religion, unvisited by any human14being, abandoned to himself, deserted of all, anddenied even the sad privilege of knowing that hiscruel destiny would awaken pity! Alone he wasto perish!—alone he was to wait a slow coiningtorture, whose most exquisite pangs would beinflicted by that very solitude and that tardycoming!“It is not death I fear, ” he exclaimed, “ butthe death I must prepare for! Methinks, too, Icould meet even that—all horrible and revolting asit is—if it might overtake me now. But whereshall I find fortitude to tarry till it come ! Howcan I outlive the three long days and nights I haveto live ? There is no power within me to bid thehideous spectre hence—none to make it familiar tomy thoughts; or myself, patient of its errand.My thoughts, rather will flee from me, and 1 growmad in looking at it. Oh ! for a deep sleep to fallupon me! that so, in death’s likeness, I might em¬brace death itself, and drink no more of the cupthat is presented to me, than my fainting spirit hasalready tasted! ”In the midst of these lamentations, Vivenzionoticed that his accustomed meal, with the pitcherof water, had been conveyed, as before, into hisdungeon. But this circumstance no longer excitedhis surprise, llis mind was overwhelmed withothers of a far greater magnitude. It suggested,however, a feeble hope of deliverance ; and there isno hope so feeble, as not to yield some support toa heart bending under despair. He resolved towatch, during the ensuing night, for the signs hehad before observed ; and should he again feel thegentle, tremulous motion of the floor, or the currentof air, to seize that moment for giving audible ex¬pression to his misery. Some person must bo near15him, and within reach of his voice, at the instantwhen his food was supplied ; some one perhapssusceptible of pity. Or if not, to be told even thathis apprehensions were just, and that his fate wasto be what he foreboded would be preferable to asuspense which hung upon the possibility of hisworst fears being visionary.The night came ; and as the hour approachedwhen Yivenzio imagined he might expect the signs,he stood fixed and silent as a statue. He feared tobreathe, almost, lest he might lose any soundwhich would warn him of their coming. Whilethus listening, with every faculty of mind and bodystrained to an agony of attention, it occured to himhe should be more sensible of the motion, probably,if he stretched himself along the iron floor, lieaccordingly laid himself softly down, and had notbeen long in that position when—yes—he wascertain of it—the floor moved under him! Hesprang up, and in a voice suffocated nearly withemotion called, aloud. He paused—the motionceased—he felt no stream of air all was hushed—no voice answered to his—he burst into tears ; andas he sunk to the ground, in renewed anguish, ex¬claimed,—“ Oh, my God! my God! You alonehave power to save me now, or strengthen me forthe trial you permit.”Another morning dawned upon the wretchedcaptive, and the fatal index of his doom met hiseyes. Two windows! and two days, and all wouldbe over! Fresh food and fresh water! The mys¬terious visit had been paid, though he had im¬plored it in vain. But how awfully was his prayeranswered in what he now saw! The roof of thedungeon was within a foot of his head. The twoends were so near, that in six paces he trod the1Gspace between them. Vivenzio shuddered as hegazed, and as his steps traversed the narrowed area.But his feelings no longer vented themselves infrantic wailings. With folded arms, and clenchedteeth, with eyes that were blood-shot from muchwatching, and fixed with a vacant glare upon theground, with a hard quick breathing, and a hurriedwalk, he strode backwards and forwards in silentmusing for several hours. What mind shall con¬ceive, what tongue utter, or what pen describe thedark and terrible character of his thoughts ! Likethe fate that moulded them, they had no similitudein the wide range of this world’s agony for man.Suddenly he stopped, and his eyes were rivetedupon that part of the wall which was over his bedof straw. Words are inscribed here! A humanlanguage, traced by a human hand! He rushestowards them : but his blood freezes as he reads:“ I, Ludovica Sforza, tempted by the gold ofthe prince of Tolfi, spent three years in contrivingand executing this accursed triumph of my art.When it was completed, the perfidious Tolfi, moredevil than man, who conducted me hither onemorning, to be witness as he said, of its perfection,doomed me to be the first victim of my own per¬nicious skill; lest as he declared, I should divulgethe secret, or repeat the effort of my ingenuity.!May God pardon him, as I hope he will me, thatministered to his unhallowed purpose ! Miserablewretch, whoe’er thou art, that readest these linos,fall on thy knees, and invoke as I have done, His, sustaining mercy, who alone can nerve thee to meetthe vengeance of Tolfi, armed with his tremendousengine, which in a few hours must crush you, as itwill the needy wretch that made it.”A deep groan burst from Yivenzio. He stood17■flike one transfixed, with dilated eyes, expandednostrils, and quivering lips, gazing at this fatal ’inscription. It was as if a voice from the sepulchre rhad sounded in his ears, “Prepare!” Hope for- ■sook him. There was his sentence, recorded inthese dismal words. The future stood unveiledbefore him, ghastly and appalling. His brainalready feels the descending horror,—his bones %seemed ta crack and crumble in the mighty graspof the iron walls! Unknowing what it is he does, |he fumbles in his garment for some weapon of self- *destruction. He clenches his throat in his convul¬sive gripe, as though he would strangle himself atonce. He stares upon the walls, and his warring ispirit demands, “ will they not anticipate their 1office if I dash my head against them?” An )hysterical laugh chokes him as he exclaims, “whyshould I ? He was but a man who died first in Atheir fierce embrace ; and I should be less than man jnot to do as much ?”The evening sun was descending, and Vivenzio ybeheld its golden beams streaming through one of 1the windows. What a thrill of joy shot through shis soul at the sight! It was a precious link, that ,uuited him, for the moment, with the world beyond.®There was ecstacy in the thought. As he gazed,Tlong and earnestly, it seemed as if the windows!had lowered sufficiently for him to reach them.With one bound he was beneath them—with one iwild spring he clung to the bars. AVhether it was i1so contrived, purposely to madden with delight the )wretch who looked, he knew not; but at the ex- t*tremity of a long vista, cut through the solid rocks 1the ocean, the sky, the setting sun, olive groves, |shady walks, and in the farthest distance, delicious ?glimpses of magnificent Sicily, burst upon his 1sight. How exquisite was the cool breeze as it' swept across his cheek, loaded with fragrance!He inhaled it as though it wei’e the breath of con¬tinued life. And there was a freshness in thelandscape, and in the rippling of the calm greensea, that fell upon his withering heart like dewupon the parched earth. How he gazed and pant¬ed, and still clung to his hold ! sometimes hangingby one hand, sometimes by the other, .and thengrasping the bars with both, as loath to quite thesmiling paradise outstretched before him; till ex¬hausted, and his hands swollen and benumbed, hedroped helpless down, and lay stunned for a con¬siderable time by the fall.When he recovered, the glorious vision hadvanished. He was in darkness. He doubtedwhether it wras not a dream that had passed beforev lii,£ sleeping fancy; but gradually his scatteredthoughts returned, and with them remembrance.Y es ; he had looked once again upon the gorgeoussplendour of nature! Once again his eyes hadtrembled beneath their veiled lids, at the sun’s- radiance, and sought repose in the soft verdure ofthe olive tree, or the gentle swell of undulatingwaves. Oh, that ho were a mariner, exposed uponthe waves to the worst fury of storm and tempest;or a very wretch, loathsome with disease, plague-stricken, and his body one. leprous contagion fromcrown to sole, hunted forth to grasp out theremnant of infectious life beneath those verdanttrees, so he might shun the destiny upon whoseedge he tottered!Vain thoughts like these would steal over hismind from time to time, in spite of himself; butthey scarcely moved it from that stupor into whichit had sunk, and which kept him, during the whole19i . night, like one who had been drugged with opium,i He was equally insensible to the calls of hungerand of thirst, though the third day was now com¬mencing since even a drop of water had passed hisdips. He remained on the ground, sometimessitting, sometimes lying; at intervals, sleepingheavily ; and when not sleeping, silently broodingI over what was to come, or talking aloud, in dis¬ordered speech, of his wrongs, of his friends, of hisi i home, and of those he loved, with a confusedi mingling of all.In this pitiable condition, the sixth and last' morning dawned upon Vivenzio, if dawn it mighti be called—the dim obscure light which faintlyI; struggled through the one solitary window of his! dungeon. He could hardly be said to notice thei melancholy token. And yet he did notice it; foras he raised his eyes and saw the portentous sign,f there was a slight convulsive distortion of hisi countenance. But what did attract his notice, andi at the sight of which his agitation was excessive,l was the change his iron bed had undergone. Itt was a bed no longer. It stood before him, the1 visible semblance of a funeral couch or bier! Wheni he beheld this, he started from the ground ; and, in;t raising himself, suddenly struck his head against1 the roof, which was now so low that he could nolonger stand upright. “ God’s will be done!” wasall he said, as he crouched his body, and placed hishand upon the bier ; for such it was. The ironbedstead had been so contrived, by the mechanicalart of Ludovico Sforza, that as the advancing wallscame in contact with it, head and feet, a pressurewas produced upon concealed springs, which whenmade to play, set in motion a very simple thoughingeniously contrived machinery, that effected the20transformation. The object was, of course, toheighten, in the closing scene of this horribledrama, all the feelings of despair and anguishwhich the preceding ones had aroused. For thesame reason, the last window was so made as toadmit only a shadowy kind of gloom, rather thanlight, that the wretched captive might be surround¬ed, as it were, with every seeming preparation forapproaching death.Vivenzio seated himself on his bier. Then heknelt and prayed fervently; and sometimes tearswould gush from him. The air seemed thick, andhe breathed with difficulty ; or it might be that hefancied it was so, from the hot and narrow limitsof his dungeon, which were now so diminished thathe could neither stand up nor lie down at his fulllength. But his wasted spirits and oppressed mindno longer struggled within him. He was past hope,and fear shook him no more. Happy if thus re¬venge had struck its final blow; for he would havefallen beneath it almost unconscious of a pang.But such a lethargy of the soul, after such anexcitement of its fiercest passions, had entered intothe diabolical calculations of Tolfi ; and the fullartificer of his designs had imagined a counteract¬ing device.The tolling of an enormous bell struck upon theears of Vivenzio! He started. It beat but once.The sound was too close and stunning, it seemedto shatter his very brain, while it echoed throughthe rocky passages like reverberating peals ofthunder. This was followed by a sudden crash ofthe roof and walls, as if they were about to fallupon and close around him at once. Vivenzioscreamed, and instinctively spread forth his arms,as though he had a giant’s strength to hold themback. They had moved nearer to him, and werenow motionless. Vivenzio looked up, and saw theroof almost touching his head, even as he sat cower¬ing beneath it; and he felt that a further contrac- ttion of but a few inches only must commence thefrightful operation. Roused as he had been, henow gasped for breath. His body shook violently—he was bent nearly double. His hands restedupon either wall, and his feet were drawn underhim to avoid the pressure in front. Thus heremained for more than an hour, when that deafen¬ing bell beat again, and again there came the crashof horrid death. But the concussion was now sogreat that it struck Yivenzio down. As he laygathered up in lessened bulk, the bell beat loud andfrequent—crash succeeded crash—and on, and on,and on came the mysterious engine of death, tillYivenzio’s smothered groans were heard no more!He was horribly crushed by the ponderous roofand collapsing sides—and the flattened bier washis Iron Shroud.NO GRUMBLING.—A TALE.An odd whim once possessed a country ’squire,that ho would not hire any servant whatever, untilten pounds should be deposited between the masterand servant; and the first that grumbled at anything, let it be what it might, was to forfeit themoney. Being in want of a coachman, not oneround the country would venture to go after theplace. Now it happened that one Thomas Winter-bourn, a coachman of London, who had beendischarged from a nobleman’s family, was in thatpart of the country on a visit, and being acquaintedwith the oddity of the ’squire’s whim, resolved toaccept of the place, and, on application, was admit¬ted into the family.Thomas was greatly surprised, after living therefor two months, that nothing was allowed him forbreakfast, dinner, or supper, but bread and cheeseand small beer. Being heartly tired of this kindof fare, he applied to the cook: ‘ Cookee,’ saysThomas, ‘ is it the standing rule of this family tokeep their servants on nothing but bread andcheese V ‘ What! ’ says the cook, ‘ do you grumble ?’‘No, no, by no means, cookee,’ replied Thomas,being fearful of forfeiting the money. But recol¬lecting his master’s park was stocked with fine deer,he took a musket and shot a fawn, skinned it, andbrought it to the cook. ‘ Here cookee,’ saidThomas, ‘ take and roast this fawn for me imme¬diately; for I hate an acquaintance or two comingdown from London, t6 pay me a visit.’ The cookseemed to object to it, having some meat to dressdirectly for her master ; ‘ What,’ says Thomas,‘ cookee, do you grumble ?’ ‘No,’ replied the cook ;so down to roast went the fawn.The appointed time arrived that the masterordered dinner, and no sign of any coming to histable occasioned him to ring the bell, to know thereason of it; the cook acquainted the ’squire withall Thomas’s proceedings, who in a great hurrybolted down stairs into the kitchen, where he foundThomas very busy in basting the fawn. ‘ Howgot you that fawn ?’ says the ’squire. ‘ Shot it,’replied Thomas. ‘ Where ?’ sayS the ’squire. ‘ Inyour park,’ replied Thomas. ‘ By whose orders ?’quoth the ’squire. ‘ Do you grumble ? saysThomas. ‘ No, Thomas,’ says the squire ; and23Lretired to liis dining-room, greatly perplexed .atTliomas’s proceedings.He instantly wrote a letter to a gentleman wholived near six miles from, his house, and orderedi that Thomas should carry it immediately. PoorThomas was obliged to comply, though with a sor-' rowful heart to leave the fawn. After his depar¬ture, the ’squire ordered the fawn, when dressed,1 to be brought to his table, which was done accord¬ingly. On Thomas’s return, he found himselffairly tricked out of the fawn ; and instead of it,to his mortification, bread and cheese, and smallbeer, his old diet; however, Thomas vowed withinhim,self to revenge it the first opportunity.I j. A litfle while after, the ’squire, (who was goingto pay his addresses to a young lady,) gave ordersto Thomas to get the carriage, together with the(horses and harness, well cleaned. Thomas obeyed(ijthe order, and on the road from the stable to thelu’squire’s house, he met a man with a small sand-'.fjcart, drawn by two remarkably fine jack-asses.iThomas insisted upon an exchange, the horses forthe asses, which being obtained, he cut all hisij master’s fine harness to pieces, to fit these Arabiani ponies, as he styled them. Matters being complet¬ed, he drove up boldly to the ’squire’s, and knockedit the gate ; the porter perceiving the droll figure? lis master's equipage cut, burst out into an im¬moderate fit of laughter! ‘C’up, c’up,’ says1 Thomas, ‘what’s the fool laughing at?—Go andicquaint the ’squire his carriage is ready.’Shortly after the ’squire came, and seeing hiscarriage so beautifully adorned with cattle, wasi struck with astonishment. ‘ Why, what the devil,’iquoth the ’squire, ‘ have you got harnessed to mycarriage?’ ‘I will tell you,’says Thomas. ‘As24I was driving from your stable to the gate, I mela fellow driving a sand-cart, drawn by these twofine Arabian ponies, and knowing you to be fontof good cattle, I gave your horses for these twcfine creatures ; they draw well, and are ornaments!to your carriage ; only observe what fine ears thej|have got?’ 4 D—n their ears and ornaments too,says the squire : ‘ why, the fellow’s mad ! ’ ‘ What!cries Thomas, ‘do you grumble?’ ‘Grumble,:’quoth the ’squire, ‘why, I think it is high time tcgrumble: the next thing, I suppose, my carriage isto be given away for a sand-cart!’On Thomas procuring the horses again, he paidhim his wages and forfeit-money, being heartilytired with the oddity of his whims, and declaredjfthat Thomas, the London coachman, was thedrollest dog he ever met with.