THEn ^HISTORYrG F T H EO F\NTERBURY,3LCHESTER,heir QUEENS and DAUQHTERS:\b ’f •. n g the '1I'M E R R Y TALESE v VO F”flpy, ; • <. *'•; K, '■ • T'/|m Hodge and his Scho^fejj.c^'3.♦ 1 *CORNWALL, &CUMBERLANb.GLASGOW,PRINTED IN THE YEAR,. 1799.Wi( 2 )THEP R E F A G E.O T to detain the reader, wit!J. many v/ords to little purpofe;fhall only here obferve, That TonHodge, with the reft of-his old com,panions, belonging to the fchool o]Cockermouth, were walking on a verpleafant morning in May, and havinltired themfelves with pranks anti intrignes, towards evening they fat them1 elves down on a green bank, beneatla lovely oak, wdiere they agreed a-mongft themfelvcs, that every oni1 iliovild tell a Tale, let a , or ca' -,.l( his Father a Cuckold; and hecanom was the eldeft fcholar, it vvjoncluded and agreed upon, that 1hould begin firlt. .tSays Tom, with all my heart,So I’ll begin my par^.The Bijlory of the four Kings. 3TALE I.N C E upon a time, when geefewere fwine, and birds built nefts •old men’s beards, as hereafter theyay do. in mine, there was a Queen1 this realm, whole name was Eliza-ith ; and, by reafon that the famousisvn of Lancafter was llrangely pefi¬l'd with v/itches, the queen lent femeIges down to arraign and try them,order to bring them to judice.ovv the riews of this court beingjljhe kept in Lancafter, fpread thro’the country, fo that a hufband-n living near forty miles from thatice, hearing of this news, and be¬ing they were come to tell the folksther they were witches or not, re- ■ed to go to be fat is fed In himfelf,he was pbiTefTed with a fe^ir, thatas a witch, becaufe he had a warton his neck, which he imagined|!be a dug.jlis wirhi-wholtad a- friend in a cor-and was t^ene^re glad pfl his ab-e, did opt,ordy give iier coqfent,.a!fo in. his be it leathern• 1 ■' h:n:,—So fakl;&rungs.'4 The Rijlory of the fanleave of his good wife Joan, he trud¬ged en day and night, until he cameto the place where the court was kept:fo rufhing on9 and preffing throughthe crowrd, the crier of the court be¬lieving him to be fome evidence, immediately gave orders that they fbouldlet him in ; which waa foon donand he was required to fpeak what hhad to fay.——Why, fays the counitry man, d’ye fee, I have a dug upof|my neck, which makes me afraid :|am a witch, and volks tell me, thathefe vine gentlemen, pointing to til*judges, can tell a body whether one La witch or no.- The crier of thcourt, feeing the hmplicity of thmais faid, No, no, my friend, i catallure thee, thou art no witch: Tho:looked: more like a cuckold thanwitch or a conjuror.- 1 thank yotzur; and zo zays thefe fine gentlemem Then having given three or fouiscrapes,- and half a dozen congees, hcame back as wife as Waltham’s call  The next day he was met by hiwife, who waited for his return at thtown’s end, to whom ihe laid. We:hufband, what do the gentlemen fayi ,jc nijioij oj ipcjeur mugs, 5' e vou a witch or no ? A witch, fweet■' ife, no,; they tells a body, one looksVtore like a cuckold, than a witch'or* ♦1 conjuror.- Why, fay you lb, repliedhe, i prithee go back, and have themakeu up for witches ; for except they-ad been fo, they would not havemown you were a cuckold.This merry tale fo plea fed them,hat they fet up a hearty laugh, whichoeing ended, the fecond boy begantis tale in the following manner,i* y •!> •»!•••}► 4* * •!*. * ^» -fc •*►.{• 4> ■>{►•}••?-T A L E II.T N the days of ycre, 'when this land1 w’as governed by many kings, n-mong thered, the king of Canterburyhad an only daughter, and fhe waswife, fair, and beautiful. Her fatherlent forth a decree, that whoever wouldwatch one night with his daughter,and neither lieep nor Humber, he(hould have her the next day in mar¬riage; but, if he did either, he iliouldloie his head.——Many Knights andSquires attempted it, butvldlt theirhead?.Nov/ it happened a young’ji'j v) Ljr"jcrrr^T<iingS.grazing his flock near the road, fai?o his mailer, Zur, 1 zee many gent >ten ride to the conrt at Canterbury!but ne’er zee ’em return again. O fhep-herd, fa id. his maher, I know not hov.• vou.fhould, for they attempt to watchwith the King’s Daughter, accordir ;to tlie'decree, and not performing |.they are a,ll beheaded. Well, faid ti lthepherd, I’ll try my vorton j z^o nov|vor a king’s daughter, or a headlelifhepherd, And, taking his bottle andbag, he trudged to court. Now inhis way lie was to crofs a river, overwhich lay a plank ; down he fits, andpulls off his fhoes and Hookings towafh his feet, left the fmell of his toesmight be the means of keeping her a*wake 5 while lie was wafhing his feet,a filh came fmellmg and biting histoes, he caught it and put it into hisbag : after which came a fecond, athird, and a fourth, which lie caught, |and put in his bag likewife; this dene, :;and Having dried his feet, he put onbjs ftockings and fhoes, and purfuedh$r journey till he came to the palace,where lie* knocked loudly with hiscrook, he was no fooncr let in,& hav- \-The Hiftory of the four Kings. /ing told his bufineft, but he was con¬duced to a hall^ prepared for that pur-'pofe, where the King’s Daughter fatready to receive him; and tine betterto lull his fenfes, he was placed ina rich eafy chair, having deliciouswine's for his flipper* with many finedifhes of iruit, &c. of which the ihep-iierd ate and drank plentifully, info-much, that he began to flu ruber be¬fore midnight. O thephtrd, iaid thelady, have 1 caught you napping?—Noa, 2weet lady, I was buzy, at what,faidlhe? Why a feefhing, Nay, fliep-herd, there is no filli pond in the hall. No matter vor thaj, I have beenfeeihing—Says the lady, where dp yohfrill ? O quoth he, in my b   .—O me, have you catched e’er a one?—Ay, lady, faid he.—I’d willingly feeit, replied Ihe.-—Ay, and ,pleafe you,you fhall v.dth all my veayt.-- -Thisiaid, he ilily drew one ot' the fifhesout or the bag, at the fight of which .(he was greatly pleafed, and praifed'it for a pretty fifh; and withal, fkui,Dear fliepherd, do you think; youcould catch one in mine too ?—VAy,ay, donbilefs 1 can.—Then ihe ijdng8 The HylGr_v of the four Kings.according to. his diredlions, he fell Mhilling, and in a Hi on time drew aie-cohd fifh out of the bag, pretendinghe drew it from her. The kinghsdaughter was fo plea fed with it, that{he killed it, declaring it was the fin-elHhe evpr faw. And about half an.hour after, fhe faid, Shepherd, do youthink you could get me one more ?He aiifwered, Mayhap, I may, when1 have baited my hock. Then makehade, for 1 am impatient till 1 haveanother: Then the fhepherd acted asbefore, and fo prefented her with an¬other fifh ; which {he aifo extolled andpraifed, faying, It was ten times finerthan the other ; and then gave himleave to deep, promifing to excufe himlo her father.In.the morning, the king came intothe hall as ulual, followed by the heads¬man, with a hatchet ; but the ladycried out, Yon may return with yourhatchet, here is ho work for you. ‘ How fo, faid the king* has he neitherf]umbered nor fiept?—No, royal fatherhe has not. How has he employedhimfoifr In fifiling Why, there isnevh* a fiih-pondj where did he catchiI rThe Jiijhry of the Join' Kings, Qthem? One in his own hackfiie, andftwo in mine Say yen fo, well friend,( dod: think thou can’ft catch one in. mine ! An’t pleafe you my liege, l be-lilii'/e 1 can. Then direeling him to lier pn his belly, he pocked him with ai packing needle, which made him cryj out exceedingly ; at which time he■ drew' the orherfiih out of the bag, andj fneweji it to the King. His M a idlyjfaid, He never knew inch fort of filli¬ng before; however, take my daugh-er, according to my royal decree;nd fo they were married, and thee lding^ kept in great triumph, andhe fhepherd> became a king’s foil.O that was mighty well, fa-id thethird boy, he had wonderful good Kr¬one; this puts me in mind of a (loryInch i will now tell in my turn.tale III.F I may believe my old grand-md-ther, there lived in the epunty dfJumbeilaiid a nobleman, who hajd•hree ions, two of them were comelymd tall youths, wife and learned; tilefliird a merry fool, and went often mIro The Bifhrj of the four Kings.a party coloured coat and deep!crowned har, at the top of which wastaffel, in this drefs he made a comic;fhrure.—At this time the kina; of Canterbury had a fine daughter, adcvned -with all the gifts of nature, joinoto an ingenious education ; fhe beir>:very ripe witted, as appeared by heready anfwers, and the comical queflions die put forth.—The king her father, publilhed a decree, that whoeve.fhould come to the court, and anrvve!his daughter three queftions, withouilludy or flumbling, ihould have hexin marriage, and alfo be heir to thecrown at his deceafe. Upon publiihing this decree, the faid gentleman’;two Tons agreed between themfelves.to go and try, how favourable fortunehe to them in this undertak-but all their care was, what theyihould do with their (illy brother Jack;,for, as they fa id, if he follow us, he;tvill out with fame fool'dh bolt, andJb fpoil our bn line is. At length it was;agreed in going to the court, to go out;of the back door, which led to the roadover feveral fields, about a- mile fromtne houfe. t hey did fo, but were nomightmg■■4The Hiftory rf the four Kings. 11fooner got into the highway^ but look¬ing behind, they faw their, brotherJack coining capering and chancing at-,ter them, laying, with a loud laugh¬ter. So you are going to get a kmg’sdaughter, but 1 will purfue you. Theyfaw there was no way to get rid ofhim, but by walking fad, and leavinghim behind, hoping thereby, to get en¬trance before Jack, and then have thegates hint a gain 11 him. They had not11 gone-half a mile, before Jack Jet up a1 great fit of laughter, at which one ofhis.brothers faid, What has the foolJ found out now ? Why, I’ve found anegg. Put it in thy pocket, faid his bro¬thers. Adad, and fo 1 will, fiys Jack.—Prefently after, he was taken withanother fit of laughter. What has thefool found now? What have Lfound,f fays Jack, why a crooked flick; Theyitbid him put that in his pocket. Ay,! marry will I.—They had not walkedimuch further, before Jack burll intoa greater fit of laughter than before.His brothers faid, What has the foolfound now ? Found, why a t—d.—-—Tit that in your pocket. I intend, ic,fays Jack, Now by this'time they wereI 'i;i Iks llyiory cf t'hn four Kings.I come nsar the palace gate, at whl| they no fooner knocked, but they were] admitted. But Jack never flood forC iremonies, but ran through the midll! of the court, and as the wife brotherswere'making their addrefles, Jack was[ •laughing at the ladies; unto whom heI laid, what a noon of fair ladies areIk got here! O yes, yes, laid the king’sdaughter, who was among them, we| are fair ladies, for we carry fire in our;f _i Do you? faid Jack, then roadf me an egg. How will ye get it out.again ? By a crooked flick which ihive. t\—you will? faki ftie—I have| it in my pocket, fays Jack. In this[ Jack aniwcreel the three queflions pro-pofed. Then he was preferred to thathionoar which was mentioned in thedecree. His two wife brothers thenwent home like two fools, and leftj ordifh Jack to be reverenced at court,with the king's fair daughter.Said the fourth boy, this verifiesthe old proverb, “ Fools have for-44 tune beiides, it has put me in/mind of a llory that was told me byv|itv an lit.'- •The Hijlory of the four Kings. I $TALE IV.O N G b for • u «, and theKxigii rs of ths Round Tab? r,ifchere reigned, in the eaftern part ofsithis Imd a King, who kept his c rrtsat Colchefter. He was witty, ftroug,and valiant; by which means he fab-i(clued his enemies abroad, and plantedpeace among his fabjedb at home.■Neverthelefs, in the mid It of all hisi eartblv glory, his (dueen died, leavingbehind her an only daughter, about, fifteen years of age, under the care q£her royal hu'band. This Lady, for hercourtly carriage, beauty., and afihbi-lity, was the wonder of all tiiat knewher ; but, as covetoufnefi is the rootof all evil, fo it happened here.The King hearing of a Lady, whohad like wile an only tanghter, for thelake of her riches* had a mind to mar¬ry her; tho’ Ihe was old, ugly, hook-nos’d and hump*back’d, yet aii couldnot deter him from marrying her. TheI daughter of the find piece of deformi-i ty wa? a yellow dowdy, lull of envyj and ili-nacure, and in lllprc was much| of the fame mould as iier mother. TJiis14 The Hi ft ory of the four Kings.Cgnified nothing, for in a few weeks,;the King, attended by the nobility ancgentry, brought the faid piece of de-fonnitv to his palace, where the mar-ri ge-rites were performed Long theyhad not been in 1 he court before theyfet the King againft his own beautifulDaughter, which was done by fadereports and acc farons The yotmg;princefs having loci her father’s love,,grew weary of the court, and on a,certain day meeting with her father inthe.garden, fhe defired him, with tearsin er eyes, to give her a fmall fubfilt-enc arid Ihe would go and feek herfortune, to which the King confent-ed, and ordered her mother-in-law, tomake up a fmall fum according toher diferetion. To her fhe went, whogave her a canvas bag of brown breadand hard cheefe, with a bottle of beer;I. tho’ this was but a very pitiful dowry!for a King’s daughter. 6he took it, re-:turned thanks, and fo proceeded, pal¬ling through groves, woods, and val¬leys, till at length Ihe law an old man! iitting on a Ilona, at the mouth of acave, who faid, Good-morrow, fair |mariden, whither away fo fait'? AgedThe Hiflory of the four Kings. 15father, fays fbe, I am going to feekmy fortune. What haft thou in thybag and bottle? In my bag I have gotbread and cbeefe, and in my bottlegood fmall beer; will you pleafe topartake of either ? Yes, laid he, withah my heart. With that the Ladypulled out her provi-ion, and bid himeat and welcome. He did,- and gaveher many thanks, telling her, therewas a thick thorny hedge before her,which will appear to you impallible,but take this wand in your hand,linke three times, and fay, Pray hedgelet me come through, and it will openimmediately: then a little fart hep, youwill tind a well, lit down on the brinkof it, and there will come up threegolden h&ads, who will fpeak, andwhat they require, that do." Then pro-miling fhe would, fhe took her leaveof hirm—r—Coming to the hedge, andfollowing the old man’s direiddons,the hedge divided, and gave htr a pan-fage; then coming to the well, ihe hadno former (itcen down,- bar a goldenhead came up with a fingihg note,^ Wa(h ms, comb me, lay me dowii jhft-ly; Yes, fud cue young.Lady : then0i■ I)fiery of the four Kings.:irforth Ifer hand, with a hlver?ercouf performed the office, placing itupon a primrofe bank, vl'hen came npa fecond and a third, faying as theformer, which fhe complied with ;and then pulling out her provifiou,ate her dinner. Then, fiid the Beadsone to another, What ffial: we do forthis Lady, who hath ufed us fo verykindly ?- The farll Card, 1 will caufeftich addition to her beauty, as Inailcharm the mod powerful Prince inthe world. The fecond laid, 1 will en¬dow her with Inch per hi me, both inbody and breath, as ih-dl far exceedthe fweeted flowers. The third fa id,My gift lhali be none of the lead, foras fhe is a King’s Daughter, I’ll makeher fb forcuna e, that, dae fh'Jl becomeQdf.en to the greated Prince thatreigns,—This done, at their requed.fhe let them down into the well again,and fo proceeded on her journey.  bhe ha.mot travelled long, before fivefaw a King hunting in tne park with ihis nobles; fhe would have fhunncd phim, but the King having a fight of Ither,, made towards her, and betweeni:her beauty and-perfumed breath, washThe Hijlory cf the four Kings. 17ifo powerfully laiitten, that he T^as notable to fubdue bis palTion, but pro-iceeded on his courtfbip, where, afterijfome compliments and kind embraces,be gained her love. And bringing herto his palace, he cau'fed her to be cloth¬ed ill the moft magnificent manner.This being ended, and the Kingfinding that {he was the King of Col-bhefter’s Daughter, ordered fome cha-dots to be got ready, that he mightnay him a vifit. The chariot, in whichthe King and Queen rode, v^as beau-. Jlfified with rich ornamental gems offgold. The King her Father was at firft.ftonifhed, that his Daughter had beenlb fortunate as (lie was, till the young..King, made him fenfible of all thatpad happened. Great was the joy at•|ourt among the Nobility, except theQueen and her club-footed Daughter,Who were ready to Kuril with malice,imd envied her bappinefs; and theIreater was their iTiadm.is, . bee <ufere was now; above tlit'.0 all,—Greatsjoicings, with feafling and oancing,ontinued many days. Then at. hn.gdi,dth the dowry her rather gave her,|iey returned home.i § The Hijlory of the four Kings.Well, fakl. the fifth boy, had'{he notbeen kind and beautiful, Inch goodforrune had never come to her lot.And pray, what became of her hump¬backed flfer-in-law ?—indeed 1 do notknow.—Why then, faid the filth bay,1 can tell you fomething of her.u m ssc* ^ n % ^ % u *TALEV.2 H E perceiving that her fifter wasdfb happy in feeking her fortune,;would needs do the lame ; fo difclof*ing iier mind to her mother, all pre¬parations were made j not dnly richapparel, but fweet-meats, fngar, al¬monds, &c. in great quantities, and alarge bottle of Malaga fack. Thusdur-nilhed, ihe went the fame road as herfifier, and coming near the cave, wherefat the old man, who faid, Young wo¬man, whither fo faft ?—What is thanto you, laid Ihe,—Then, faid he, whathave yen in your bag and bottle? ihoIanfwered, good things, which youL-{hah not be troubled with. Won’t yougive me fume, faid he ? No, not a bit,,por a drop, unlefs it would choak toipjt he foifr Kings. 19The old man frowned, faying, Evilfortune attend thee.——Going on, fhecame to the hedge, through, which Iheefpied a gap, where Ihe thought toI pals, but going in the hedge ciofed,and the thorns ran into her jfleih, fb| that with great difficulty ffic got our.I Being now in a bloody condition, ihei! looks for water to wafh herfelf, andII looking round Ihe faw a well, and lit-i.) ting down, one of the Eleads, came upto her, faying, Wafh me, comb me,day me down loftly. But ffie bang’d itwith hjr bottle, faying, Hang you,i;take this for your wafhing. So the fc-cond and third Heads came up, andmet with no better welcome than therfirft, wdiereupon the Eleads confultedngft them Elves, what evils toue her with for fuch ufage. Thefirft faid. Let her be fti:uck with lepro-y in her face. The fecond faid, Letn additional Link be added to herreath. The third bellowed on her aufband, though but a poor coumryobler.— This done, ihe goes on tillic came to a market-town, and it be-ig market-day, the people fmtlk-d aink, and feeing fuch a mangy dace,t20 7-be Hijlory of the four Kings,all fled ; but a poor cobler, who notlong before, had mended the Ihoes ofan old hermit, who having no money,gave him a box of ointment for thecute of the leprofy, and a bottle offpirits for a {linking breath. Now thecobler, having a mind to do an a<5l ofcharity, was minded to t y an experi¬ment; fo going up to her, afked her,who flie was ? 1 am, laid Ihe, theKing of Colchefter’s Daughter-in-law. Well, faid the cobler, if 1 relloreyou to your natural complexion, andmake a found cure both in ^ce andbreath, will you in reward take me for*a Hufband ?—Yes, friend,* replied fhe,with a;i my heart. With this thecobler applied the remedies, and theywoiked the effect in a few weeks,which being done, they were marri¬ed. . After fome few days fpent intown, they fet forward for the court,at Cole heller. At length coming there,and tiie Queen underltanding, Ihe hadmarried nothing but a poor cobler, !fell mto deft radii on, and in wrathbanged herfelf. The death of the !Queen pieafed the King much, whowas glad he had got rid of her lb fbcn„Thd^HiJlory of the four Kings. 21Having buried her, he gave the coo¬ler one hundred’pounds, on conditionthat he and his lady.would q.uit thecourt. The cobler received it, and pro-mifed he would: Then fetting up histrade in a remote part of the kingdom,they lived many years, he mendingfhoes, and fhe fpinning thread.Quoth the (ixth boy, 1 think for aKing’s Daughter fhe hath fpun a veryfine thread. 'But now for my ftory.TALE VI.A Tinker in our town had but onedaughter, whole name was Tib,and becaufe her father would fiot lether marry a miller’s man, named Job-fen, nothing would ferve her, but 'fhemuff go and feek her fortune; fo overhills and mountains, through grovesand lonefome woods fhe palled, till at 'length fhe met with an old woman,who faid unto Tib, Where are yougoing ? To feek fervice, fays Tib.*Will you live with me, replied the oldwoman ? my family is fmail, myfelf,my cat, .and my dog. Tib anfwered.In r>The Hijlory of tJk four Kings.with all my heart, ho home theywent to her cottage, which flood bythe fide of a grove on the b.-mk of apleafant river. She no fooner enteredin at the door,-* than die beheld theihelves faruifhed with abundance ofearthen ware and glades.- She hadnot lived long with her, before Fibhad commi-ted a fault, for « h dieold woman was refolved tovery bone in her fkin.ore ok. e-To that end,die nut her into a Tack, and havingtied the mouth of the fame, Ihe wentto the grove to cut a dick; but whiledie. was gene, Tib, with a penknife,opened the lack, and got out,; andput the dog and cat into it, dliing itup with pans, pipkins, &c. then drag¬ging it to the door, that the old wo¬man might not come in to mifs them,who on her return; thinking that Tibhad rowied thither, began to lay onlike a fury; when the dog howled,the cat mewed, and the pipkins crack¬ed; while the old woman cries out.An ! howl if you will, and be pag’d,for, before you come out of this fack.I’ll thiafn your bones to chaff. NowTib dood uit a' diftance, laughing toThe Bifioryof the four Kings. 23,|fee bufy Hie was in deftroying rIjhe vv' nirniture, then fled for ir,taqd nevtr aftsr returned.1 : •" d fhe did, replied tl-iejfeventh bey, or. elfe the old womaiiiwoidd certainly have been revenged,j>n Tib at 'aft;—- now for my'.ftory, which, ihall be the laft at this’ ;neeting. -‘/v itale vir.Young man having found apurfe, in which was live pounds,; made a proclamation, that if anyike would lay any jult claim to it,come to fuch tavern, and theyuld haye it again. To the tavernwent, where in meat and drink, hent a crown. At laft when the youngn was ready to go, the owner camed demanded the purle, which, hes ready to furrender; but the own¬knowing a crown was {‘pent, heuid not receive it, unlefs he madethe whole furn. The young rriauhim he could not, fo an ofiicer%i 7 he' Hlftory af the four Kings,was feat for; bar befgre he came, the!yonch took to his hee’s, ran for itwith that iwiftnefs, that, an afs Oar^jing. in his way,’he took hold oi ♦msjtail to fwing hinifelf by, and twitche. *it off A little farther, he overthrewwoman with child, and caufeid her tomifcarry, At length he was taken, anll ; brought before a JufUce by the threi'»• fuifei ers.>— Kayiog »’heard their coni'plaintr', he turned to the young manand laid, Young man, feveral com-plaints are here laid againft you, whibjt’ ilia 11 clear up, Firft, Keep the mo-: aiey you have found, .d? trade vvislit, till you have imprv^ved it lb far 1■-tb nial^ him and tnellet hpw bays it.-—-—Yon .fake the af\l ' and vtoi’Jv him till a new tail grothen give him tp his owner.- Anyog take the woman home, and lijwith h^r, till file is as far gone witchild as the was before, and dlcn finher home to her -hmfcand. 2n wi(thefe determinations he difimifitF I N I S-.;. t- •- ,