&THE1G*JjOWG pack,OHTHE ROBBERS DISCOVERED:Scottish- Story.3SX^ JAMES HOGG, THE ETTRICK SHEPHERD.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.am'*H 3A*I B IWO JI00.aMavooeia enaasoii aaira.(laaiivae?. xomrm .rior -,x»jok grn- air7/0f>SAvIfHEI.ONG PACK.In the year 1723, Colonel Ridley returnedpm India, with what, in those days, waspcounted an immense fortune, and retiredo a country seat on the banks of NorthTyne in Northumberland. The house wasebuilt and furnished with every thing ele¬gant and costly; and amongst others, aervice of plate supposed to be worth £1000.le went to London annually with his family,bring a few of the winter months, and athese times there were but few left at hisountry house. At the time we treat of,here were only three domestics remainedhere; a maid servant, whose name was Alice,:ept the house, and there were besides, an oldnan and a boy, the one threshed the corn,tnd the other took care of some cattle, forbe two ploughmen were boarded in housesf their own.One afternoon as Alice was sitting spin-ling some yarn for a pair of stockings toicrself, a pedlar entered the hall with awnical pack on his back. Alice had seen4as long a pack, and as broad a pack; 1a pack equally Iqng, broad, and thick, :declared she never saw. It was about 1middle of winter, when the days were shoand the nights cold, long, and wearisoiiThe pedlar was a handsome, well dressed m£and very likely to be a very agreeable chpanion for such a maid as Alice, on suchnight as that; yet Alice declared, that fr<the very first she did not like him greatjand though he introduced himself with a 1tie ribaldry, and a great deal of flattery ,terlarded, yet when he came to ask a nighlodging, he met with a peremptory refusshe jested on the subject, said he believed swas in the right, for that it would scarcebe safe to trust him under the same roof w,such a sweet and beautiful creature—AIAvas an old maid, and any thing but beadful—He then took her on his knee, caredand kissed her, but all would not do. u iNshe would not consent to his staying thenu But are you really going to put me awto night?” aYes.” “Indeed, my ucgirl, you must not be so unreasonable;am come straight from Newcastle, wherehave been purchasing a fresh stock of goocwhich are so heavy, that I cannot tra\tar with them, and as the people around aall of the poorer sort, I will rather inayou a present of the finest shawl in my pad5 \ *-before I go further.” At the mentioning'of the shawl, the picture of deliberation waspourtrayed in lively colours on Alice’s facefor a little; but her prudence overcame.£< No, she was but a servant, and had ordersto harbour no person about the house butsuch as came on business, nor these either,unless she was well acquainted with them.”“ What the worse can you, or your master,or any one else be, of suffering me to tarryuntil the morning?” “I entreat you donot insist, for here you cannot be.” u Butindeed, I am not able to carry my goodsfurther to-night.” “ Then you must leavethem or get a horse to carry them away.”u Of all the sweet inflexible beings thatever were made, you certainly are the chief.But I cannot blame you, your resolution isjust and right. Well, well, since nobetteimay be, I must leave them, and go searchfor lodgings myself somewhere else, for,fatigued as I am, it is as much as my lifeis worth to endeavour carrying them further.”Alice was rather taken at her word: shewanted nothing to do with his goods: theman was displeased at her, and mightaccuse her of stealing some of them; butit was an alternative she had proposed, andagainst which she could start no plausibleobjection; so she consented, though withmuch reluctance.—u But the pack will be6better out of your way,” said he, “aifetsafer, if you will be so kind as lock it nin some room or closet.” She then led hi|into a 1c r/ parlour, where he placed it car*1fully on tv' chairs, and went away, wishin ;Alice a good night.When old Alice and the pack were le: ttogether in the large house by themselves \she felt a kind of undefined terror come ove ’her mind about it. “ What can be in it,11said she to herself, 41 that makes it so heavy ?Surely when the man carried it this lengthhe might have carried it farther too.—It ia confoundedly queer pack; I’ll go amlook at it once again, and see what I thini¬ls in it; and suppose I should handle it alround, I may then perhaps have a gootguess what is in it.”Alice went cautiously and fearfully intcthe parlour and opened a wall-press—shewanted nothing in the press, indeed shenever looked into it, for her eyes were fixedon the pack, and the longer she looked atit she liked it the worse; and as to handlingit, she would not have touched it for all thatit "contained. She came again into thekitchen and conversed with herself. Shethought of the man’s earnestness to leaveit—of its monstrous shape, and every cir¬cumstance connected with it: they were allmysterious, and she was convinced in her7own mind, that there was something un-iicanny if not unearthly in the pack.What surmises will not fear give rise to. in the mind of a woman ! She lighted amoulded candle, and went again into theparlour, closed the window shutters, andbarred them ; but before she came out, sheset herself upright, held in her breath, andtook another steady and scrutinizing lookof the pack. God of mercy I She saw itmoving, as visildy as she ever saw anything in her life. Every hair on her headstood upright. Every inch of flesh on herbody crept like a nest of pismires. Shehasted into the kitchen as fast as she could,for her knees bent under the terror that hadoverwhelmed the heart of poor Alice. Shepufled out the candle, lighted it again, andnot being able to find a candlestic, thoug'ha dozen stood on the shelf in the fore kitchen,she set it in a water-jug, and ran out to thebarn for old Richard. u Oh, for mercy,Richard, make haste, and come into thehouse. Come away, Richard.” “Why,what is the matter Alice? what is wrong?”“ Oh, Richard! a pedlar came into the hallentreating for lodging. Well, I wouldnot let him stay on any account, and behold,he is gone off and left his pack.” “ Andwhat is the great matter in that?” saidRichard. “ 1 will wager a penny he will8look after it, before it shall look after him.u But, oil Richard, I tremble to tell you'We are all gone for it is a living pack.u A living pack!” said Richard, staring aAlice, and letting his chops fall downRichard had just lifted his flail over his heaito begin threshing a sheaf; but when h:heard of a living pack, he dropped one encof the harid-stan to the flour, and leaningon the other, took such a look at Alice!He knew long before that Alice was beau¬tiful ; he knew that ten years before, buthe never took such a look at her in his life;u A living pack !” said Richard. u Whythe woman is mad without all doubt. ” 11 Oh,Richard ! come away. Heaven knows whatis in it! but I saw it moving so plainly asI see you at present. Make haste, andcome away Richard.” Richard did not standto expostulate any longer, nor even to puton his coat, but followed Alice into thehouse, assuring her by the way, that it wasnothing but a whim, and of a piece, withmany of her phantasies. u But,” addedhe, 44 of all the foolish ideas that ever pos¬sessed your brain, this is the most unfeasible,unnatural, and impossible. How can apack, made up of napkins, and muslins,and corduroy breeches perhaps, ever becomealive? It is even worse than to suppose ahorse’s hair will'turn an eel.” So saying,9t lifted the candle out of the jug, andruing about, never stopped till he had laids hand on the pack. He felt the dealsat surrounded its edges to prevent the;cds being rumpled and spoiled by carry-g, the cords that bound it, and the canvass. which it was wrapped. u The pack wasell enough, he found nought about it thather packs wanted. It was just like othericks made up of the same stuff. He sawought that ailed it. And a good largeack it was. It would coast the honest man200, if not more. It would cost him £300r £350 if the goods were fine. But herould make it all up again by cheatingjols like Alice, with his gewgaws.” Aliceestified some little disappointment at seeingiichard unconvinced, even by ocular proof.She wished she had never seen him or itlowsomever; for she was convinced therevas something mysterious about it; thatkey were stolen goods or something that,vay; and she was terrified to stay in thenouse with it. But Richard assured herthe pack was a right enough pack.During this conversation, in comesEdward. He was a lad about sixteen yearsof age, son to a coal-driver on the border—was possessed of a good deal of humourand ingenuity, but somewhat roguish,forward, and commonly very ragged in hisapparel, He was ^ out this time whollintent on shooting the crows and birds Cvarious kinds, that alighted in whole flockwhere he foddered the cattle. He habought a huge old military gun, which hdenominated Copenhagen, and was continually thundering away at them. He seldoikilled any, if eyer; hut he once or twicknocked off a few feathers, and after muclnarrow inspection, discovered some dropof blood on the snow. He was at this vermoment come in a great haste for Copen‘hagen, having seen a glorious chance osparrows, and a robin-red-breast amon£them, feeding on the site of a corn rick, buhearing them talk of something mysteriousand a living pack, he pricked up his earsand was all attention.—<{ Faith Alice,5said he, <{if you will let me, I’ll shoot it.’il Hold your peace, you fool,” said RichardEdward took the candle from Richard, whestill held it in his hand, and, gliding dowrthe passage, edged up the parlour door, antwatched the pack attentively for about tweminutes. He then came back with a springand with looks very different from thosewhich regulated his features as he wentdown. As sure as he had death to meeiwith he saw it stirring. u Hold your peace,you fool,” said Richard, Edward sworeagain that he saw it stirring j but whether11he really thought so, or only said so, ishard to determine. “Faith, Alice,” saidhe again, “ if you will let me, I’ll shoot it.”“ I tell you to hold your peace, you fool,” saidRichard, “ No,” said Edward, “in the mul¬titude of counsellors there is safety; and I willmaintain this to be our safest plan. Ourmaster’s house is consigned to our care, andthe wealth that it contains may tempt somepeople to use stratagems. Now, if we openup the man’s pack, he may pursue us for dam¬ages to any amount, but if I shoot it, whatamends can he get of me ? If there is anything that should not he there, Lord, how Iwill pepper it! And if it is lawful goods, hecan only make me pay for the few that aredamaged, which I will get at valuation; so, ifnone of you will acquiesce, I will take all theblame upon myself, and ware a shot uponit.” Richard said whatever was the conse¬quence he would be blameless. A halfdelirious smile rather distorted than beauti¬fied Alice’s pretty face, but Edward took ifor an assent to what he had been advanc¬ing, so, snatching up Copenhagen in onehand, and the candle in the other, he hasteddown the passage, and without hesitatingone moment, fired at the pack. GraciousHeaven ! The blood gushed out upon thefloor like a torrent, and a hideous roar,followed by the groans of death, issued12from the pack. Edward dropped Copen-hagen upon the ground, and ran into thekitchen like one distracted. The kitcher:was darkish, for he had left the candle iithe parlour; so taking to the door withoutbeing able to utter a word, he ran to thehills like a wild roe, looking- over eachshoulder as fast as he could turn his headfrom the one side to theother.—Alice followedas fast as she could; but lost half the wayof Edward. She was all the way sighingand crying most pitifully. Old Richardstood for a short space rather in a state ofpetrefaction, but, at length, after some hastyejaculations, he went into the parlourThe whole floor flowed with blood; thepack had thrown itself on the ground, butthe groans and (Ties were ceased, and onlya kind of guttural noise was heard from it.Knowing then that something must be done,he ran after his companions, and called onthem to come back. Though Edward hadescaped a good way, and was still perse¬vering on, yet, as he never took long timeto consider of the utility of any thing-, butacted from immediate impulse, he turnedand came as fast back as he had goneaway. Alice also came homeward, but moreslowly, and crying even more bitterly thanbefore. Edward overtook her, and was hold¬ing on his course; but, as he passed, she13turned away her face, and called him amurderer. At the sound of this epithet,Edward made a dead pause, and looked atAlice with a face much longer than it usedto be. He drew in his breath twice, as ifgoing to speak, but he only swallowed agreat mouthful of air, and held his peace.They were soon all three in the parlour,and in no little terror and agitation of mind,unloosed the pack, the principal commodityof which was a stout young man, whomEdward had shot through the heart, andthus bereaved of existence in a few minutes.To paint the feelings, or even the appearanceof young Edward, during this scene is im¬possible; he acted little, spoke less, andappeared in a hopeless stupor; the most ofhis employment consisted in gulping downmouthfuls of breath, wiping his eyes, andstaring at his associates.It is most generally believed, that whenEdward fired at the pack, he had not themost distant idea of shooting a man; butseeing Alice so jealous of it, lie thought theColonel would approve of his intrepidity,and protect him from being wronged by thepedlar; and besides, he had never got achance of a shot at such a large thing inhis life, and was curious to see how manyfolds of the pedlar’s fine haberdashery ware,: Copenhagen would drive the drops through,14so that when the stream of blood burst tromthe pack, accompanied with the dying1 groansof a human being, Edward was certainlytaken by surprise, and quite confounded;he indeed asserted, as long as he lived, thathe saw something stirring in the pack, buthis eagerness to shoot, and his terror onseeing what he had done, which was no morethan what he might have expected, had hebeen certain he saw the pack moving, makesthis asseveration veiy doubtful. Theymade all possible speed in extricating thecorse, intending to call medical assistance,but it was too late; the vital spark was gonefor ever. 1 i Alas! ” said old Richard, heavinga deep sigh, “poor man, ’tis all over withhim ! I wish he had lived a little longer tohave repented of this, for he has surely diedin a bad cause. Poor man ! he was some¬body’s son, and no doubt dear to them, andnobody can tell how small a crime this hath,by a regular gradation, become the fruitsof” Richard came twice across his eyeswith the sleeve of his shirt, for he stillwanted the coat; a thought of a tendernature shot through his heart. “ Alas,, ithis parents are alive, how will their heartsbear this, poor creatures!” said Richard,weeping outright, “ poor creatures ! Godpity them!”The way that he was packed up was15artful and curious. His knees were broughtup towards his breast, and his feet and legsstulied in a wooden box; another woodenbox, a size larger, and wanting the bottom,made up the vacancy betwixt his face andknees, and there being only one fold ofcanvass around this, he breathed with thegreatest freedom; but it had undoubtedlybeen the heaving of his breast which hadcaused the movement noticed by the servants.His right arm was within the box, and tohis hand was tied a cutlass, with which hecould rip himself from his confinement atonce. There were also four loaded pistolssecreted with him, and a silver wind-call.On coining to the pistols and cutlass,“Villain,” said old Richard, “see what hehas here. But I should not call himvillain,” said he again, softening his tone,‘4 ibr he is now gone to answer at that barwhere no false witness, nor loquacious orator,can bias the justice of the sentence pro¬nounced on him. He is now in the trueworld, and I am in the false one. We canjudge only from appearances, but thanks toour kind Maker and Preserver, that he wasdiscovered, else it is probable that none ofus should have again seen the light of day.”These moral reflections from the mouth ofold Richard, by degrees raised the spirits ofEdward; he was bewildered in uncertainty,16and had undoubtedly given himself up torlost: but he now began to discover that hejhad done a meritorious and manful action,,and for the first time, since he had fired thefatal shot, ventured to speak, u Faith it waslucky that I shot then,” said Edward; butneither of his companions answered eitherf ood or bad. Alice, though rather grownesperate, behaved and assisted at this bloodyaffair, better than might have been expect¬ed. Edward survej ed the pistols all round,two of which were of curious workmanship.u But what do you think he was going- todo with all these ?” said Edward. u I thinkyou need not ask that,” answered Richard.“Faith it was a mercy that I shot afterall,” said Edward, “for if we had loosedhim out, we would have been all dead in aminute. I have given him a devil of abroadside, though. But look ye, Richard,Providence has directed me to the right spot,for I might as readily have lodged the con ¬tents of Copenhagen in one of these emptyboxes.” “ It has been a deep laid scheme,”said Richard, “to murder us, and rob ourmaster’s house; there must certainly bemore concerned in it than these two.”Ideas beget ideas, often quite different,and then others again in unspeakable grada¬tion, which run through and shift in the mindwith as much velocity as the streamers17around the pole in a frosty night. OnRiehard’s mentioning more concerned, Ed¬ward instantaneously thought of a gang ofthieves by night.—How he would break theleg of one—shoot another through the head—and scatter them like chaff before thewind. He would rather shoot one robber onhis feet or on horseback, than ten lying tiedup in packs; and then what a glorious preyof pistols he would get from the dead rascals—how he would prime and load and fireaway with perfect safety from within !—howAlice would scream, and Richard wouldpray, and all would go on with the noiseand rapidity of a windmill, and he wouldacquire everlasting fame. So high was theyoung and ardent mind of Edward wroughtup by this train of ideas, that he was stridingup and down the floor, while his eyes gleamedas with a tint of madness. u Oh ! if I hadbut plenty of guns, and nothing ado butto shoot, how I would pepper the dogs! ”said he with great vehemence; to the nosmall astonishment of his two associates,who-thought him gone mad. u What canthe fool mean?” said old Richard, u Whatcan he ail at the dogs?” u Oh, it is therobbers that I mean,” said Edward. u Whatrobbers, you young fool?” said Richard.”“ Why, do not you think that the pedlarwill come back at the dead of the night, to18the assistance of his friend, and bring plentyof help with him too,” said Edward. “ Thereis not a doubt of it,” said old Richard.“ There is not a doubt of it,” said Alice,and both stood up stiff with fear and aston¬ishment. uOh! merciful Heaven! what isto become of us.” said Alice again, “Whatare wo to do ?” “Let us trust in the Lord,”said dd Richard. “ I intend, in the firstplace, to trust in old Copenhagen,” saidEdward, putting down the frizzel, andmaking it spring up again with a loud snapfive or six times, “ But, good Lord! whatare we thinking about? I’ll run and gatherin all the guns in the country.” The impulseof the moment was Edward’s monitor. Offhe ran like fire, and warnted a few of theColonel's retainers, who he knew kept gunsabout them; these again warned others,and at eight o’clock, they had twenty-fivemen in the house, and sixteen loaded pieces,including Copenhagen, and the four pistolsfound on the deceased. These were distri¬buted amongst the front windows in theupper stories, and the rest armed with pitch-forks, old swords, and cudgels, kept watchbelow. Edward had taken care to placehimself with a comrade, at a window im¬mediately facing the approach to the house,and now, backed as he was by such a strongparty, grew quite impatient for another19chance with his redoubted Copenhagen. All,i however, remained quiet until an hour past ,midnight, when it entered into his teemingbrain to blow the thief s silver wind-call; so,without warning any of the rest, he setshis head out at the window, and blew untilall the hills and woods around yelled theirechoes. This alarmed the guards, as notknowing the meaning of it; but how werethey astonished at hearing it answered byanother at no great distance. The state ofanxiety into which this sudden and unforeseencircumstance threw our armed peasants, ismore easily conceived than described. Thefate of their master’s great wealth, and eventheir own fates, was soon to be decided, andnone but He who surveys and over-rulesfuturity could tell what was to be the issue.Every breast heaved quicker, every breathwas cut short, every gun was cocked andpointed toward the court-gate, every orb ofvision was strained to discover the approach¬ing foe, by the dim light of the starrycanopy, and every ear expanded to catch thedistant sounds as they boated on the slowfrosty breeze.The suspence was not of long continuance.In less than five minutes the trampling ofhorses was heard, which increased as theyapproached to the noise of thunder, and indue course, a body of men on horseback,h20according to the account given by theColonel’s people, exceeding their own num¬ber, came up at brisk trot, and began toenter the court g'ate. Edward, unable to re¬strain himself any longer, fired Copenhagnin their faces : one of the foremost dropped,and his horse made a spring towards thehall door. This discharge was rather pre¬mature, as the wall still shielded a part ofthe gang' from the windows. It was,however, the watchword to all the rest, andin the course of two seconds, the whole six¬teen guns were discharged at them Beforetire smoke dispersed they were all fed, nodoubt greatly amazed at the reception whichthey met with. Edward and his comraderan down stairs to see how matters stood,for it was their opinion that they had shotthem every one, and that their horses hadtaken fright at the noise, and galloped offwithout them; but the club below warmlyprotested against their opening the door tillday, so they were obliged to betake them¬selves again to their birth up stairs.Though our peasants had gathered jp alittle courage and confidence in themselves,their situation was curious, and to them adreadful one; .they saw and heard a part oftheir fellow creatures moaning and expiringin agonies in the open air, which wasintensely cold, yet durst not go to administer21the least relief, for fear of a surprise. Anhour or two after this great brush, Edwardand his messmate descended again, andbegged hard for leave to go and reconnoitrefor a few minutes, which after some disputeswas granted. They found only four menfallen, who appeared to he all quite dead.One of them was lying within the porch.“ Faith,” said Edward, u here’s the chapthat I shot” The other three were withoutat a considerable distance from each other.They durst not follow their track farther,as the road entered betwixt groves of trees,but retreated into their posts without touchingany thing.About an hour before day, some of themwere alarmed at hearing the sound of horsesfeet a second time, which, however, was onlyindistinct and heard at considerable intervals,and nothing of them ever appeared. Notlong after this, Edward and his friend werealmost frightened out of their wits, at seeing,as they thought, the dead man within thegate, endeavouring to get up and escape.They had seen him dead* lying surround¬ed by a deluge of congealed blood, andnothing but the ideas of ghosts and hobgob¬lins entering their brains, they were soindiscreet as never to think of firing, butran and told the tale of horror to some oftheir neighbours. The sky was by this22time grown so dark, that nothing could beseen with precision, and that they all re¬mained in anxious incertitude, until theopening day discovered to them, by degrees,that the corpses were removed, and nothing-left but large sheets of frozen blood, andthe morning’s alarms by the ghost and thenoise of horses, had been occasioned by someof the friends of the men that had fallen,conveying them away for fear of a dis¬covery.Next morning the news flew like fire,and the three servants were much incommodedby crowds of idle and officious people thatgathered about the house, some inquiringafter the smallest particulars, some beggingto see the body that lay in the parlour, andothers pleased themselves with poring overthe sheets of crimson ice, and tracing thedrops of blood on the road down the wood.The Colonel had no country factor, nor anyparticular friend in the neighbourhood, sothe affair was not pursued with that speedwhich was requisite to the discovery of theaccomplices, which if it had, would havebeen productive of some very unpleasantcircumstances, by involving sundry respect¬able families, as it aftenvards appeared butjtoo evidently. Dr. Herbert, the physician,who attended the family occasionally, wroteto the Colonel, by post, concerning the affair,23but though he lost no time, it was the fifthday before he arrived. Then indeed adver¬tisements were issued, and posted up in allpublic places, oifering rewards for a discov¬ery of any person killed or wounded of late.All the dead and sick within twenty mileswere inspected by medical men, and a mostextensive search made, but to no purpose.It was too late: all was secured. Someindeed were missing, but plausible pretencesbeing made for their absence, nothing* couldbe done. But certain it is, sundry of thesewere never seen any more in the country,though many of the neighbourhood declaredthey were such people as nobody couldsuspect.The body of the unfortunate man, whowas shot in the pack, lay open for inspec¬tion a fortnight, but none would ever ac¬knowledge so much as having seen him.The Colonel then caused him to be buried atBellingham, but it was confidently reported,that his grave was opened and his corsetaken away. In short, not one engagedin this base and bold attempt was ever dis¬covered. A constant watch was kept bynight for some time. The Colonel rewardedthe defenders of his house liberally. OldRichard remained in the family during therest of his life and had a good salary foronly saying prayers amongst the servants24every night Alice was married to a tobac-.conist at Hexam. Edward was made theColonel’s gamekeeper, and had a present ota line gold-mounted gun given him. Hismaster afterwards procured him a commis¬sion in a regiment of foot, where he sufferedmany misfortunes and disappointments. He ‘was shot through the shoulder at the battleof Fontenoyj but recovered, and retiring jon half-pay, took a small farm on the Scottish-;side. His character was that of a brave,but rash officer; kind, generous, and open-hearted in all situations. I have often stood ’at his knee and listened with wonder andamasement to his stories of battles and seiges,but none of them ever pleased me betterthan that of the Long Pack.Alas ! his fate is. fast approaching to usall! he hath, many years ago, submittal tothe conqueror of all mankind. His braveheart is now a clod of the valley, and hisgray hairs recline in peace on that pillowfrom which his head shall be raised onlywhen time shall be no more.