THEPride of poor Britainr OR, THEFOLLY of MAN.TO V'HICH ARE ADDED,I ADVICE TO THE FAIR SKX| The Old Woman ground Young again,I The SAILOR’S DEPARTU RE,I THOMAS LOVED HARRIET,I M Y PRETTY BRUNETTE.GLASGOW,Printed by J, & M, Rdbertfcn, Saltmarket, 1852.T HE P R I D .E c f B R I t A I N j .O E,THE FOLLY o f M A N.>*1 S in fv/eet flsrri'er I sras laid.Poor Confcicr.ce was making moan,I faw fwcct Truth in rags arrr.^J,Dejc£led, and quite alone ;-S tell you the aged as well as ‘.he youth,Tb -y ha‘ec arc! flighted poor Confcience Sc Truths' With diffimulation there’s thoufands will focth.* VCHORUS.O poor Britain^ prodigal Britain,Wrhat vriil this world come to ?Sweet Truth immediately repVd,The nation may we!! complain,Foil the heart of man is fill’d with pride,And malice doth iisut and reign ;Ah, Confcience! I fee ti.cu art now growr. prfor,Thou art naked, de'pifec!, and turn’d out of doer,The world was never fo wicked before-.Chorus O coor B.-itai’i, prodigal Britain,What v. ill this world come to ?Some men do rave, and rant, and roar,then term it a merry life,They oftentinn; fend f&r a whore,And min-an henefi wi/e.Each draggle tail drab do cuddle and kit\And term her the heigh: of peifcdlion and blits,And-every fop uow muft have his mils.Chorus. O poor Britain, prod’; si Britain, ,. What.will this world come to?/Yeung harlots do like pomrs pV, .At each turning up.and down.And when a cuily does come by,Their fare is half a crown *,! Then itraight in a ccach-ihey muflba pu6>The Oiuffliiig blade and jilting flat,Whi.’i honeft poor people rauft tnulge it on foot.Ct.orus. O poor Britain, prodigal Britain,What will this ’world come to.The pride of women n . w-a-days.Was iiever in Ere our mother,To fee their hair, how they’re rais’dOne ftory above another j;.! Their necks are naked, and breafts-open wide,''1 Pack, patched, and painted, and hoop’d befide, -:i I think the devil is in women fob pride.Chorus. O poor Britain, prodigal Britain,;Vyhat wjli this world come to.The downright maa, who cannot cog,Not flatter his friend at all,Nor fawn like to a fpceiel dog,. Is often defpifed by sill jI»,;t he who has a fine tongue to comply,Can compliment, flatter, diffemble, and lie—-O this is an honeit man, then thby do cty.Chorus. O poor Britain, prodigal Britain,What will this world come to ?Seine men will fay the crow’s not clack, „Ibui flatter before your face,Yet cut year throat behind your back.Nay that in a little fpace •,Their fmiies do quickly turn to a frown,They do they can to tu.abde you down,1 Nay, ruin a neighbour for I'fwfs than ?. crown.Chorus U pdor Britain, prodigal Britain, etc.' . C .4 ' 'J • .The rich wc find, ha\*e many friends,But the poor have few or none.Bur when this painful life dcth end,Then we fhall be all as one ;.The wealthy rich mifer, and crafty old knave,Muft with the poor beggar He down in the grave,fhey’ll but a fhroud or a winding-fheet haveChorus- O poor Britan, prodigal Britain, etc.Then what is the glory of this world.On which we fo much depend ?When after riea'h we may be hurl’dWhere mifery has no end;Then when we are living a.id flourithing here,Bet’s labour to keep our confcienccs clear,To part with this world we need not fear.Chorus. O po.-r Britain, prodigal Britain,- What will this wcitd corne to ?ADVICE T O T H E F A 1R S E X.Tr E Beauties, or fuch-as would beauties be fam’d,1 Lay p vtches ?nd ^. (hcs and painting afide,Go burn all the gtaffes that ever was fram’d,The gewgaws of taihion, knicknacks of pride.A fro^rum to cull from the toilet of rtafon,C is eafy, ’tig cheap, ard ’tis ever in feafon,Ty el! to be found, and with all to be pleafing,V/hen art has in vain her cofinetics applied.Goad-natur., believe megs the fmootheflof varnifh.Which ever bedimp’es the beainiful cheek;No time no: no tint can it’s excellence tarnidi,it holds good fo long, and lies on fo fleek’ristnere than the blulii of the role in the morning,- The white of the iil-y is not fo adorning,All accident p -oof. and all ferutiny fcoming;T':s cafe tv the witty, sad wit to the weak.i C 5 3: t is furdy the girdle that Venus was bound with,■i The Graces, her handmaids, all pi oud put it on ;;,pi A’rely tjl.e radiance Aurora is crown’d with,' Who, fending, anfes, and waits (or the fun.>h 1 wear it, ye lafl'es cm e.*ery occafion ;i l is the hobiefl reproof,hi^ the (Irongelt perruauon,ii‘wiU keep, nay ’twill a Into 0. retrive reputation,' I And lait, and look lovely, when beauty is gone.I' The Old ’Vgman ground Young again.AS the tniiier was going to grind his grain,He heard an old woman ladly complain,) miller, faid die, what mult I give to thee,Isfo make an old woman look young again.[ sTis twenty guineas, the miller, faid he,fi'ben Hie jumped about as brilk as a bee,With all my whole heart, the widow rejoic'd*,Iv’or 1 know l have got a moll happy choice.Come fill the bumpers up to the brim,sror i long to be a maiden again,fir hen the miller he took her on his back,tAnd he tumbl’d her head and feet into his fuck.And unto his haufe he foon did return,And unto his mill did return again •,Then into the hopper, the rnilier he Ihot her.And fwere he would make her look young again.Then he oil’d her joints ano he pair’d her nails.The wind ble'w irefh, and he focn made fail,Wy'ith a great deal of pleafure they lay on the roafs.Then he fwore he would grind her as fmall as grafs.Then out of the hopper {he reding came.And called to the miller by his name,O n iller, faid Ihe, what hive you done to me !i For 1 think in my heart i look young again."c . 6 3Now the miller he hres at the Windmill HI If*And he grinds old we-mrn cxc -ding well,So now ye old maids and widows rejoice, .For now you havd*got a molt happy choice,Go to him si! you that are old and lame,And he fveeato he’d make you look young again.■v * nzrrvi&l ‘THE SAILOR’S DEPARTURE* '"Tf t>U tHi me, dear Molly,, you IcVe me fiucere,%i he ccnllah* and true tor a while,'..While f on the ocean brave every te»r,And drive furrow away With a fmilt.CHORUS.With, a Ik in full of grcg.&the thoaghtsdf my Molly,Til bauifli ^il forrow i.nd drown njebncholy ;Tiro’ Fhiilis and Nancy 1 have courted, ’tis true,I will fight ’'or no other, dear Molly, but you.IT in adlicn I chance fall ?. vidlim to death,I fall in my country’s defence,InT onour 1 die, end refrgn my I iff breath,But thar, rr.y desr gift’s v’! a chance.Q'H O R U SO’er 2 full fiowd’ng bowl I will drmk to my Molly,To all forrow, and drown melahclroJy, etc.But fho.uld Providence guarTme fafe back to this■ And return crown’d wkh gain (or my foil, Tnore,I will marry, dear Molly, the girl lShe ihud ii.gre all my well earned rpoil.C H OPUS.With s fuU'fiow'ing bowl 1 wi I meet ray Molly,And drink to the faitor 'vhd drowns melancholy,TtV other young laiiV 1 bare ccu-ted, Ms true,l will wed with none other, dear Molly, hut vow.THOMAS LOVE D H A FI R * E T,TUNK -AI,LEW’S RETURNT Hoiias lov’d Harriet with a tender {l^me,A lovelier Lfs n ’er trade the ha.'.flct round,While fl’.n his lovr return’d with love the fame,Until the vile discordant drum did found,A recrui’.m^ fetjeant, with each cra.'tv wile.With gKtt’ring fwprd 2nd proud imperious eir,With fife and drum, the unwary to beguile,Paraded rt«*nd *r,d round the village lair.They talk’d of laurels, honours, glory, fyne, 'Tom faw his comrarl.: take the gilded bait,He, filly fwein, like him mult do the fame,But both, repented whm it was too late.pJ. am i left, cries liafriet, to mourn,Soon as tbu- fatal tidings reach’d her eat !Tom cry’d, Vvrith honour I fha.U foon return,Then from her check he kifs'd the falling tear.lAb ! Tom, what’s honour but an empty name,! Perverted to th* ufe cf cruel wars,Hevock is glory, Generals gain the fame, (fears,While the poor private, wears the wounds andIlSays Tom, faife honour did my heart betray,The fad Remembrance bam ill from your view,jThe drum now beats, Lveet gill 1 mult away, .So love, farevvd, fhe kifs’d, and cry’d adieu.’Ah I now behold them drawn up in a line,For death or cor.quelt, on the fanguine pjain,c;Poor Tom uniiptcd'did his Srestlt refign,j ~ AH reak'd in wounds amid feme thoufands flain.Wtien Har-iet heard,her cheek, which wore abloom.Which to the blufning rofes'were allay’d,Grew pale and wan, all in defponding gloom,She pin’d, Ihe fickea'd, end with grief Ihe riy’d.• - C 8 ]M Y P R E T I' Y B R IT N E T T E.DEar Nancy, I’ve fail’d the world all around,And feven long years bem a nmr,To malte for my charmer each fhilling a pound.Bur now my hard perils are over,I’ve fav’d from my toils many hundreds in gc*'>- The comforts-of life to beget,I’ve bom in each climate the heat and the c^ld.I’ve hern in each climate the heat Ad the Cold,And all for my pretty Brunette,CHORUSThen fay, my fweet Girl, can you love me,Then fay my fweet girl, etcTho’ others may boafl of more riches than mine,And rate my attractions e’en fewer.At their jeers and ill nature 1’il fco/n to repine,Can’ thf ■>' boalt of a heart that is truer ;Or will they fer thee plow the haaard’ous main,,Brave the feafons bofh ftormy and wet,If not, why I’ll do it again and again, If not, etcAnd all for my pretty Brunette.Then Cpvj my fweet girl, can you Igve me, etc♦ .When order’d afar, in parfuit of the foe,I iigh’d at the bodings of fancy,Which fain would perfuade me, I might be laid lowAnd, ah ! never more fee my Nancy ;But hepe, like, an ant*0!, foot! banUh’d the thoughtAnd bade me fuch nonefenfe forget,I took the advice, and, undauntedly fought, I> etaAnd all for my prtdy Bmuette.Then fay, my fweet girl, can you love me. etcPrinted by J. and M. Robertfdn, SaHm'arkr.t, 13oi