THEI. I F E, Pj1;STRANGE VOYAGES,AND ' ;•<*'UNCOMMON ADVENTURESOF 'AMBROSE GWINETT,FORMERLY KNOWN TO TH£ POBLICBY THE LAME BEGGAR:Who, for a long time. Swept the way at theMewfgate, Charjng-Crofs.CONTAINING^An Account of h:Y being convicted and hanged inChains, at Deal in Kent, for the fuppofed Murdcc-ot Mr. Collins, his fmti' i/.ing Recovery aftf ) beingexecuted ; his voyage to the Weft Indies j his beingtaken by the Spaniards, where he meets the inden-tical Colhns, whom he was fuppofed to have mur¬dered ; the Accident that threw Mr. Gwi.iett intothe hands of pirates; his extraordinary adventure*with them, and being re-taken by the Spaniards, andby them condemned to the Gallics; his being takenand*made a Slave of by the Algerines, and after fuf-fefing many hardlhips, his return to England.'*0?$C0TU*11r.GLASGOV7,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,SALTMARKET, iSco.VT H &LIFE AND ADVENTURESO FAMBROSE GWINETT.— — * —■ — -I Was born of reputable parents in the city ofCanterbury, where my father, living at thefign of the blue anchor, dealt in Hops. He hadbut two children, a daughter and myfelf, and hav¬ing given me a good fchool education, at the ageof fixteen, he bound me apprentice to Mr. GeorgeRoberts, an attorney in our town, with whom f 'llaid four years and three quarters, to his greatcontent, and my own fati$fa£Hon.My filler being come to a woman’s eflate, hadnow been married fomething more than a twelve¬month to one Sawyer, a (Tea-faring man, whohaving got confiderablc prizes, my father alfo giv- ;lug him 200I. with my filter, quitted his profef-fion, and fet up a public houfe, within threemiles of the place of his nativity, which wasDecl, in the county of Kent.I had frequent invitations to pafs a fliort timewith them ; and in the autumn of the year , 709,having obtained my tnafter’s confent for’that pur-pofe, I left the city .of Canterbury on foot onWed’nefda) morning, being the 17th day of Sep¬tember { but, through fome unavoidable delays onthe road, the evening was confiderably advancedbefore I reached Deal j and fo tired was I, beingimufed to that way of travelling that, had my lifedependedLIFE AND ADVENTURES, S±c. 3depended upon it, I could not have got fo far asmy filter’s that night, (lie living, as I have alreadyfaid, three miles beyond that place.At this time there was a great many of her Ma-lil jeftyf^ueen Anne’s fltips lying in the harbour, the; Euglilh being then at war .with the French andif Spaniards; befides which, I found this the dayli for holding the yearly fair, fo that the town wasii filled to that degree that a'bed was not to be had! for love or moneyl I went feeking a lodging fromI houfe to houfe to no purpofe, till being quite fpent,; I returned to the public houfe where f had firfl; made enquiry, during leave to fit by their kitch-1 on fire to reft myfelf till the morning.The publican and his wife where I put up, hap-j peiied^ unfortunately for me, *0 be acquaintedI with my brother and fifter, and,finding by my dif-I courfe that 1 v/as a relation of theirs, and goingIto vifib them, the landlady prefently faid ihe wouldendeavour to get me a bed ; and going out of thekitchen, file quickly after called me into a parlourthat let from it. Here I faw, fitting by the fire-fide, a.middle aged man in a night gown and cap,who was reckoning money at a table. “Uncle,| (faid the woman as foon as I entered) this is a1 bfother of our friend Mrs Sawyer ; he cannot get1a bed any whete, and is tired with his journey.You are the only one that lies in this houfe alone,will you give him part of yours?” To this the mananfwered, that he had been blooded that day, and.1 confequendy a bed-fellow could not be agreeable ;1“ However, faid he, rather than the young manfhall fit up, he is welcbme to fieep with me.**After this we fat a while together, when, afterputting his money in a canvas bag, into the pock,et of his night-gown, he took the candle, and £followed him up to bed.How4 LIFE AND ADVENTURESHow long I flep.., I cannot* exa£Hy determine,byt I conjectured it was about three o’clock jaThpAofning when I awaked with the cholic, attend¬ed with the molt violent gripes; I attributed thisto fome. bacon and cabbage I had eaten that dayfor dinner, after which I drank a large draughtof milk. I found my chum awake as well as rny-feif; he aPfted me what was the matter ? I in¬formed him, and at the fame timd begged hewould direct me to the neceflary. He told me,when I was down flairs I mult turn on my righthand and go ftraight into the garden, at the endOf which it was, juft over the fea ; “ but, adds he,you may potfibly find fome difficulty in openingthe door, the ftring being broke which pulls upthe latch, I will give you a pen-knife, wkh whichyou may open it, through a fmali chink in theboards.” So faying, he put his hand into his 1waiftcoat pocket, which lay over him on the bed,and gave me a middling-fized pen-knife.i hurried on a few of my clothes and wentdown flairs; but I muft obferve to you, that un-clafping the pen-knife, to open the door of theneedfary, according to direftion,-a piece of mo¬ney, which (tuck between the blade and the grove-in the handle, fell into my hand : I did not exam- ^ine what it was, nor indeed could I.well fee, therebeing then but very faint moon light, fo I put jthem together carelefsly into my pocket.I apprehend I ftaid in the garden pretty near .half an hour, (for I was extremely ill) and by o- |lerheating myfelf with walking the preceding day, 1>d brought on frhe piles v a dtfofder I was fubjedt |from my youth. Thefe feemed trifling circum- )nces, but afterwards turned out of infinite con-.quence to me.—When I returned to the cham-°r, I was furprifed to find tny bed-fellow gone;I calledIIOF AMBROSE GWINETT. 5I called feveral times, but receiving no anfwer*took it for granted he had withdrawn into tomeadjoining clofet for his private occafions. I there-; fore went to bed and again fell afleep. ' -About fix o’ciock I arofe, no body yet being1 up in the houfe. The gentleman was not yet re¬turned to bed, or if he was, had again left it. IIdreft myfelf with what hafte f could, being impa-tiexit to fee my filter; and the reckoning beingpaid over night, I let myielf oat at the llreet door,i will not trouble you with a relation of the:! kuidnefs with which my filter and her hufband'i! received me. We breakfalted together^ ami I be¬ll lieve it might be about eleven o’clock in the fore-11. noon, when flanding at the door, my brother-in-Jj law being by my fide, we faw three horfemenj galloping towards us. Soon as they came up,||! they Itopt, and one ot them lighting, fuddenlyit feizeu me by the collar faid, tc You are die king’s||| prifoner.” I defired to know my crime. He faidI I fiiould know’ that as foon as I came to Deal,w where I mult immediately go with them. Onei|i:i of them told my brother, that the night before Ii had committed a murder and robbery.Refiitancc would have proved as vain as myU tears and protdtations of my innocence : in aword, a warrant was produced, and I was carri-1 ed back to Deal, attended by three men; my bro.i ther, with another friend, accompanying us, who1 knew not what to lay, or hoW to comfort me.Being arrived in town, I was immediately bur-ii ried to the houfe where I had llept the preceding: night, the. mailer of which was one of the three! men that came to apprehend me, though in myJ firll hurry I did net recoiled him. We weref met at the door by a crowd of people, every one« crying, “ Which is he ? Which is.he ?” As foon ,as'% % ■LUTE AND ADVENTURESentered, I was accofted by the publican’sf)as Iwife, in tears, “ O 1 curfed wretch, what hafl;thou done ? Thou haft murdered and robbed mypoor dear uncle, and all through me who putthee to lie with him ! ftut where haft thou hidhis money ? and what haft thou done with hisbody ? Thou fhalt be hing’d upon a gallows ashigh as the May-pole.” My brother begged herto be pacified, and I was taken into a private room.They then, began to queftion me as the womanhad done, about where I liad put the money, andhow I had diipofed of tie body. I afked 'themwhat money, and what lody they meant? Thenthey faid I had killed theperfon f had lain withthe preceding night for tie fake of a large fum Ihad feen with him. I fel down upon my knees,calling God to witnefs I knew nothing of whatthey accufed me. Then hmebody .cried, “ Carryhim up ftairs,” and I was brought into tlie cham¬ber where I had ilept. Hare the man of the houfewent to the bed, and tuning down the clothes,flawed the fheets, piilovs, and bolfter died inblood. He aiked me, did I know any thing ofthat ? I declared to God I did not. Says a perfonthat was in the room, "Young man, fomethingvery odd muft have happeied here laft night; forlying in the next chamber, I heard groauitigs,and going up and down ilairs more than once ortwice. I told them the circumftance of my ill-nefs, and that I had been up and down myfelf,with all that pafted between my bed-fellow andme. Somebody propofed to fearch me, feveralsbegan to turn my pockets infide out, and from mywaiftcoat tumbled the pen-knife and the piece ofmoney I have already mentioned. Upon feeingthefe, the woman immediately fcreamcd cut, “ OGod ! there is my undeT pen-knife!” Then tak-1/OF AMBROSE GWINEFT. 7ing up the money, and calling the people abouti her, “Here, faid fhe, is what puts the .villain’sguilt beyond a doubt; I can fwear to this Williami and Mary’s guinea; my uncle has long had it by '1 way of apo.'ket piece, and engraved the fir It let¬ters of his name upon it.”. She then began to cry!! afrefh, wl ile I could do noshing but continue to! "call to Heaven to witnefs that I was as innocent! as the child unborn. After this they took me1 down to the necefiary, and here frefh proofs ap¬peared againft me. The conftable, who had ne¬ver left me, perceived blood upon the edges of thefeat, (which might probably proceed from my be-Iing troubled with the hemorrhage the night be¬fore), “ fiere, faid he, after having cut the throat,he has let the body down into the fea.” This e-very body afiented to immediately. “ Then, faidthe mafter of the houfe, it is in vain to look forthe body any further; for there was a fpring titleiaft night which carried it off.”The confequence of thefe proceedings was animmediate examination before a juftice of peace;after which I fuffered a long and rigorous impri.fonment.in the county town of Maidftone. Forfeme time, my father, my mailer, and my rela¬tions, were indited to think me innocent, and incompliance with my earneft requeft, an advertife-ment was publifhed in the London Gazette, re-prefenting my deplorable circumltances, and of¬fering a reward to any perfon who could givetidings of Mr. Richard Collins (the name of theman 1 was fuppofed to have muidtred) either a-live or dead. No information, however, of anykind came to 'hand; at the affizes, therefore, Iwas brought to trial, and circumllances appea ingilrong againft me, I received fentence, to be car¬ried in a cart the Wed ne Id ay fortnight following,toS LIFE AND ADVENTURES10 the town of Deal, and there to be hanged be"fore the innkeeper’s dcor where I had committedthe murder; after which I was to be hungin chains within a little way of my brother’shoufe.Nothing could have fupported me under thisdreadful condemnation* but a confcioufnefs of my.not being guilty of the crime for which I was tofufrer. My friends now begat; to coufidcr my de¬claration of innocence as perfming in falfehood,to the perdition of my feral; many of them dif-continued their inquiries after me; and thofe fewthat ftill came to vifit me, only came to urge meto confelhon; but I was rel'olved I would neverdje with a lie of that kind in my mouth.The Monday was now arrived before the fatalday, when an end was to be put to my miferres.I was called down into the court of the prifon,but I own I was not a little Thocked, when I foundit was to be rneafured oil' for the irons in which Iwas to be hung after execution. A fellow-pri-foner appeared before me in the farce woful plight,(he had robbed the maii) and the imith was mea-iuring him when I came down; while the goaler,with as much calmnefs, is if he had bt?n order¬ing a pair of flays for his daughter, was givingdirections in what manner tV- irons fhould bemade, fo as to fupport the man, who was. remark¬ably heavy and corpulem.Between this and the day of my execution, Ifpent my time alone in prayer and meditation.At length Wednefday morning came, and aboutfix o’clock I was put into the cart; but fure, Incha day of wind, rain and thunder, never blew outof the heavens: it purfued us all the way; andwhen we arrived at Deal, it became fo violent,'that the ftleriff and his oflicets, who had not a dryOF AMBROSE GWINETT. 9ftitch upon them, could fcarce fit their horfes:for my own part, my mind (God help me) waswith long agitation become fo unfeeling, that Ewas in a manner infenfible to every object about.me. I however, heard the iheriff whifper the ex¬ecutioner to make, what difpatch he could, with¬out the lead emotion, and fullered him to tuckme up like a log of wood, uncomcious of whathe was doing.I can give no account of what I felt while Iwas hanging, fomething for a little time appearedabout me like a blaze of fire ; nor do I knowhow long I hung: no doubt but the violence ofthe weather favoured me greatly to that circum-ftance. What I am now going to te.H you, Ilearned from my brother, which was, that afterhaving hung about half an hour, the fherifF’soCvaers ail went off, and I was cut down by theexecutioner; but when he came to put the ironsupon me, it was found a mflake had been made,and that the irons of the other man, which weremuch too large for me, had been fent initeaciof mine. This they remedied as well as thevcould, 9y fiuling rags between my body and thei*>ops that furro’jnd-ed >t; afte* which I was tak¬en, according my fentenee, tb the place ap¬pointed, ^ud hung upon a gibbet which was readyprepared.The cloth over my face being but flightly tied,and fufFering-no preflu re ‘ from the irons, whichflood a great way from it, was, I fuppofe, foondifpatched by the wind, which was ftili ratherviolent, andbprobubiy its blowing on my barefaceexpedited my' recovery ; certain it is, that in thistremendous fituation I came to myfelf.. It was, no doubt, a very great bleffing, that fdid not immediately return ib perfectly to myfenfeslo LIFE AND ADVENTURESfejnfes as to have -a feeling of things about me;yet I had a fort of recoliecYion of what lud hap¬pened, and, in fome xtieafure, was fenfible whereI was.The gibbet v-as placed at one corner of a fmallcommon held, where my fiiler’s cows yfuailyran; and it plea fed God, that about this time af lad, wno took care of them,’ came to drive them,home for evening milking The creatures whichwere feeding altrmlt under me, brought him nearthe gibbet; when, hopping to look on the me¬lancholy fpect.icle, he perceived the cloth fromoff my face, and in the very moment he lookedup, faw me open my eyes and move my underjaw. He immediately ran home to iaiorm thepeople at his mailer’s. At Grit, th'.y made fomedifficulty to believe his (lory ; at length, however,my brother came our, and, by the time he got tothe field, l was fo much alive, that my groanswere very audible-It was now duik. The firll thing they rari forwas r. ladder. One of my brother’s men mount¬ed, and putting his hand to mv ilomach, felt myheart beating very flrongly. Hut it was foundimportable to detach me from the gibbet, withoutcutting it down. A faw, therdfyre, was got forthat purpofe; and, without giving you a detailof trifling circumftances, in lefs than haif^ a«hour, having freed me from my irons, they getme blooded, and put into a warm bed in my bro¬ther’s houfeIt is an amazing thing, that, though upwards,of eight pevfons were intruded with this tranfac-tion, and l remained three days in the place afterit happened, not a creature betrayed the fecret.Early next morning, it was known that the gib¬bet was cut down, and it immediately occurredtoOF AMBROSE GWINETT. irto every body, that it was dooe by my relations^in order to put a flight vail over their own fliame*by burying the body: But when my brother wasfummoned to the mayor’s houfe, in order to boqudtioned, and he denied knowing any thing ofthe matter, little more ftir was made about it ■,partly becaufs he was greatly refpedted by all thfen-ighbouring gentlemen, and in fome meafure,perhaps, became it was known that I continuedto perfilt ftonglv in my being innocent of the fad;for which I fuifered.Thus, then, was I molt miraculoufly deliveredfrom an ignominious death, if I may call my com¬ing to life a delivery, after all I had endured: but,,how was I to dlfpofe of my life, now I had re¬gained it?—To tlay in England was impoffible,without expofmg myfelf again to the tefrors ofthe law. In this' dilemma, a fortunate circum*fiance occurred. There had lain for fome time,at my brother’s houfe, one or two of the principalofficers of a privateer that was preparing for acruife, and jtrft then ready to fail. The captainkindly offered to take me On board with him.—■You may guefs, little difficulty was made on oucfide to accept of fuch a propofal; and proper ne-ceffiiries being quickly provided for me, my filterrecommended me to the protection of God andthe worthy Oommander, Who molt humanelyreceived me as a fort of under affiltant to hisIteward. •We had been fix months out upon our cruife,having had but very indifferent fuccefs, when,being upon the coaft of Eloiida, then in the handsof the Spaniards, we unfortunately fell in with afquadron of ihehr men of War : and, being confe-quently, taken without ftrffdng a Itroke, we wereall brought prifoners into the harbour of Havan-nah.ill PE AND ADVENTURESnah. I was really now almofi: weary of my life,and should have been very glad to have ended itin the loathfome dungeon ; where, with forty o-thers of my unfortunate countrymen, the enemyhad (lowed me: but, after three years dole con¬finement, we were let out in order to be put onboard tranfports, to be conveyed to Peniylvania,and from thence to England. Tnisy as you m.ybelieve was a disagreeable fentence to me, takingit for granted, that a return home would be a re¬turn to the gallows: being now, a tolerable rnaf- 'ter of the SpauHh language, I folicited very llrong-ly to be left behind: which favour l obtained, bymeans of the mailer of. the prifon, with whom,during my confinement,, I had contra&ed a Portof intimacy *, and he not only took me into his ;houfej as foon as my countrymen were gone, butin a ihort time, procured me a falary from thegovernor, for being his deputy.Indeed, at this particular time, the office 'wasby no means agreeable. The coaft had been longjhfefted with pirates, the mod defperate gang ofvillains that can be imagined: and there wasfcarcea rr.ontli pafied that one or ether of their vefFelsdid not fad into the governor’s hands, and thecrew as conftantly were put under my care. QnceI veiv narrowly efeuped hying knocked on thehead by one of thefe ruffians* and had the keyrvretled from me: another time I was fhot at.* Pis true, in both cafes the perfons fuffered fortheir attempt, and, in the laft, I thought a littletoo cruelly; for the fellow who let off the emv-bine, was not only put to the torture, to conjeishis accomplices, but afterwards broke upon thewheel, where he was left to expire, thp moll (hock¬ing fpectacle I ever beheld with my eyes.,I had been in my office about three monthswhenOF AMBROSE GWINETT. 131 when a (hip arrived from Port-Royal, another| Spanifh fettiement on the coaft, with nine Eng-Klirti prifoners on board. I was {landing on thedtreet as they were coming up from the port, with,1 a guard of foldiers, to the governor’s houfe. II] thought fomething ilruck me in the face of oneof the prifoners, that I had before been acquaint-: 1 ed with. I could not (lop them for u,s to fpeak■ together: however, in about an hour after, they! v/ere all brought down to prilon, there to bei I lodged till the governor (ignified 'his furtherpleafure.As Coon as the poor creatures found I was anEngliuiman, they were extremely h ippy, even intheir diflreiTed fituation, though indeed they weretreated with lenity enough, and only fent to theprifon till a lodging could be provided for them,they having been, in the ccurfe of the war, madeprifoners as well as myfelf, and then on their re¬turn home. I now had an opportunity of takingnotice of the man whofe face I thought I knew,and 1 was more and more confirmed that I wasnot miilaken. In a word, I verily thought thatthis man was the perfon for whofe fuppofed mur¬der l had fullered to much in England; and thethought was fo llrong in my head, that I c.H’ddnot fleep a wink ail night.In the morning after their arrival, I told them,that if any of them had a mind to walk about thetown I would procure them permiffian, and goalong with them. This man faid he would go,and it was what I withed. Three other prifoners,{hat went out along with us, walked a little inadvance. I now took the opportunity, ami look¬ing in his face, “ Sir,” faid I, “ was you ever atDeal1 believe he, at that inftant, had fome rc-coileclion of me} for, putting his hand upon my{hcmld; r.14 LIFE AND ADVENTURES(houlder, rears burft into his eyes. “ Sir,” faySI, “ if you were, and are the man I take you for,you here fee before you one of the mod unfortun^ate of human-kind; Sir, is your name Coiiins ?”He anlwered it was “ Richard Collins !” faidI. He replied, “ Yes,” “ Then,” faid I, “ Iwas handed aud gibbeted upon your account idEngland "After our mutual furprife was over, he made megive him a circumftantial detail of every thingthat happened to me in England, from the mo¬ment we parted. I never faw any man exprefsfuch concern as he did, while I was purfning mymelancholy adventures; but when 1 came to the ■circumftances of being hanged, and afterwardshung in chains, I could hardly prevail upon himto believe my relation, till backed by the moft fe- •rious alfeverations, pronounced in the moft folemn 'manner. When I had done; “ Well,” faid iie,young man, (for I was then but in my twentyfifth year ; Mr. Coiiins might be about forty-three)it you have fuftained misfortunes upon my ac¬count, do not imagine (though I cannot lay themat your door) that l have been without my fufFerings. God knows my heart, I am moft exceed¬ingly forty for the ihjuftice that has been donebut the ways of Providence are ur.fearcha*youble.” He then proceeded to inform fire by whataccident ait my troubles had been brought about.“ When you left me in bed,” faid h6, “ havingat firft awaked with an opprefiion I could not ac-'count fof, I found myfelf grow exceedingly fickand weak ; I did not know what was the matter ^I groan’d and ligh'd, and thought mvfelf going todie; when, accidentally, putting my hand to my 'left arm, in which I had been blooded the morn¬ing before, I found my thinwet, and, in Ihort,thatOF AMBROSE GWINETT.; at the bandage Having flipped, the orifice was a-in opened, and a great flux of blood ifihed.Eis immediately accounted for the condition Ind myself in. I thought, however, £ woulddisturb the family, which I knew had gone tod very late I, therefore, muttered all my(length, and got up with my night-gown loo^ a-ut me, to go to a neighbouring barber who nadt ;d me, in order to have the blood llopt and thendage placed. He lived direftly oppofite to ourufj; but when I was eroding the way, in orderknock at his door, a band of men, armed withtluflrs and hangers, came down the town, and?iug me, hurried me towards the beach. I beg-d and prayed j b.it they foon filenced mv cries,ff firll I took them for a prefs-gang, though I af-wards found they were, a gang of ruffians, be-aging to a privateer, aboard of which they im-diutely took me. However, before I got thi-r, the lofs of blood occafioned me to faint a-ay. The furgeon of the flsip, I fuppofe, tiedmy arm; for, when my i'enfes returned, 1md myfelf in a hammock, with fomebody feel-g my pulfe. I alked where 1 was? They laid Iis fafe enough. £ immediately called for myht-gown; it was brought me ; but of a veryijlnfulerable fum of money that was in the pock-of it I could get no account. I complained to; captain of the violence that had been done me,d of the robbery his men,had committed; but,ing a brutifh fellow, he laughed at my grief, andd me, if I had loit,:.ny thing, I fhould foonve prize-money enough to make me amends. InVjprd, not being able to help myfelf, I was o-ied to fubmit: and, for three months, theyced me to work before the malt In the end,weVer, wc met with the fame fate that you did.■ WeLIFE AND ADVENTURESWe wore taken by the Spaniard -; and by adre:Hires parallel to your own, you now fee me hereon mv return to our native country; whither, Iyou will accompany me, I lliall think myfelf e>tremely happy.”There was nothing now to prevent my going tEngland; and a fliip being to fail for Europe iteight or ten days, in it Mr. Collins and I determined to embark. As foon as we returned home1 went to my mailer, and told him myiefolutionhe did not diffuade me from it, chiefly, I fuppoftbecaufe it gave him an opportunity of getting thilittle office I held, for a nephew of his, who was!lately come to live with him, to whom, the vcrjffame day, I delivered up my trull. And here theprovidence of God Was no iefs remarkable to methan in other padticul, rs of my life ; for the veryf^me night, eight cr ten pirates, who were in thtprifon, watched the occaflon, while the young marwas locking up ffie wards, to feize Irina, takingthe keys from him, after having lefSffilm for dead;and, before the alarm was fuffioiently given-, liveof them made their efcape, having, as it was fup*■ pofed, got off the c.oaft by means of piratical boats,which kept continually hovering about.It was the i Sth day of November, 1712, thahhaving made all my little preparations, I lenttrunk aboard the Nollra Senora, a merchant ffijUbound for Cadiz, Michael Deronza matter. Tiiavefiel was to fail that evening, and lay in the road,three miles from the town About feveu o’clockin the evening, I being then fitting with SigniotiGafper, my old friend and matter, in the porticoto his houfe, a lad came up, and faid the boat hadbeen waiting half an hour for me at the port, anatfeit my companion, Mr. Collins wa$ already opboard. I ran to the houfe for a fmall bundle, andonlyOF AMBROSE GWINETT. 17pnly.{laying to take leave of one or two of the fa-bi!y, made what hafte I could to the quay; andjvhen I arrived, I found the boat had already putiff, leaving word, that I Ihould overtake them atII little bay, beyond the town. The du& wasHoming on. I ran along the ihore, and, as 1 irr.a-lined', foon had a fight of the boat, to which Iallowed as loud as I was able; they anf.vered,riff immediately put about to take me in : but wefad fcarce got fifty yards from land, when, ont ’.pking about for my friend Mr. Collins, I miffedi im; and then it was I found I had made a mif-t ike ; and, imlead of getting on board my own110at, which I now faw a-head, i had got into afloat belonging to fome of the pirates. I attempt-ffd to leap overboard, and fhould eafily have fwamisliore; but I was prevented by one of the crew,|jho gave me a llroke cn the head, which imrr.e-iliiately laid me fenfelefs ; and 1 found aftei wardsyhey miftook me for one of their own men, whomI hey had fent to purchafe fomethihg iit the town,i; A more infernal crew than thefe pirates breath-n;i ,not upon the face of the earth'. Their wholelives were a fcene of rapine and murder, which,itften they h}id not an opportunity of committingjijpon wretches that fell into their clutches, duringtljieir piratical purfuits, they committed upon onepother. During the time that I remained with•fiem, which was upwards of three years and three•waarters, there wras no kfs than eleven affaffina-5 rms among themfelves. There was an unmhab-- ed ifiand, about twelve leagues well of the Gulph.1 : Mexico, which thofe villains called Swallow.1 land, from the great number of thofe birdssi hich harboured boon it. Here they had a forti-k cation ; and the place being rendered almofl in^• ■H tcwifible by rocks, except.at one little iiilet', juftlarge18 LIFE AND A BVIN'IUJ&Slarge enough to admit a fingle vciTel, they defieta ■the Spaniih power.Their captain was one Bryan Walfh, an Infh» 1man, whom l cannot help calling a moft execrableand bloody villain, though’God Almighty put itinto his heart to be a very good friend to me,When I was brought into the iliip, and, immedi- ^atcly after into the captain’s cabin, the fir ft perfbnthat accofted me was one of the fellows that had -broke put of prifon, and had formerly been undermy care. He knew medirefitly, and without a-jny more ado', drawing out his hanger, aimed anjBroke at me, which falling upon my neck, enter- ;*ed deep into the ftelli, and mull infallibly haVdput an end to my life, had not the captain prevent* 1.ed it, by raifmg his cane between him and me* 1which broke the force of the blow. From this ‘moment he feemed to take me under his profec-1fion. At his own requeft, I gave him a hiftory ofmy life, which aftonifhed him greatly: but nota >withftanding I pleaded hard to be fet on fiiore a-gain, he abfolutely refufed: and, in fpite of allmy entreaties to the contrary, brought me to theifland and fortification I have already mentioned*where, finding I could read and write, two quali¬fications he wanted himfelf, he thought I might ibe of ufe to him.I have already faid, that with thefe people I re¬mained upwards of three years; on land I aftedas ftore-keeper; and at fea, as a fert of purfer to:the Ihip. it is to be obferved, that there u'as al¬ways a fufiicient number of bands left on the Hlandlto man the fort, which was fe fituated as effe£lu-ally to prevent the approach of an enemy. In¬deed the office of liore-keeper was a place of greattruft. You would hardly credit me, was I to at-.’tempt to tell you the immenfe riches thefe rob-beriOF AMBROSE GWINETT. 19;bers had atnailrd together. One article alone willfufficient to give you an idea of it. Under onejlhade, 1 myfelf reckoned three thoufand eight hun-red bales of Englilh goods; and 1 tray fcfely de-!are, that in other merchandize.of almost every:ind, they fell nothing behind: and upon an aver-ge, tlitre could not be lefs in their coffers thanf ivp hundred thoufand pounds ffe/ling jn fpecie,glides a great quantity of gold irnbars.Tiig continual terror that was on nrjTmind whiledl remained with thefe people, is not to be imagin-;;jtd : but, to give you a detail cf our manner ofi jli-fe, while I endured this worft of bondage, would.aibe tedious, becauie it had no variety, and fboek-aing to boot, as I was forced to enter into their;:|iorHd fchemes I fliall only tell you, that in onef our cruizes, having met vyi>th a Jamaica fhip,ilkye hoixled out oar black colours, and having-board-d her, becaufe fhe made fome reiiftance, ,a:.d kil-ed one of our men, the captain ordered that .thehcle crew ll'.ould be niaffaored ; which wickedomirrand was executed upon the matter, live fea->l)men, and a boy, in a manner, before the cruel(Buontter’s eyes; tiien taking the cargo cut, whichroved to be rum and fugar, we fcuttled the fliip,sd returned to our fortification.But to fee how the Avenger of wicked deedsakes the fruits of our crimes om punifhment,jhis cargo of rum, which was.of a kind not ma-iv degrees fliort of rquafertis, was drunk by themen v/ith fuch a fury, that in little more than threelays, not a drop of it was left; and of our com-liment of eighteen men, feven a’cfoluteiy lett theirives by it, among whom was the captain.I cannot but ccnfefs I had feme attachment tohis man, becaufe he always appeared particularlyHatched to me: when, therefore, J taw him liefenfclefsso LIFE AND ADVENTURESfenfelefs on the floor, overgorged with this infer¬nal liquor, I did every thing I could to recover'him, and fo far fucceeded as to bring him to hisfenfes ; but the quantity he had drunk had inflam¬ed his bowels to a degree not to be afiwaged byno lenitives, that was in my power to procure him.He was fdzed with intermitting convtnfions,which, the next day, carried hiniolr; but aboutfour hours before he died, he called to me, in pre¬fence of all the men, who flood about him, in thecabin, and defiring me to fit down with pen andink, to draw his,will, he left me foie heir to h;sfhare of the booty, figning tbe paper with hismark; which paper through a feries of unheard-,’of misfortunes, I have pfeferved in my cuftody e--ver fince.'We buried the captain tha next day ; and, oninfpedlion and partition of the treafure, I foundmyfelf worth confiderably more than forty thou- .faVul pounds Sterling. The perfons now remain¬ing of our company were, Jofeph Wright, An¬drew Van Hooten, a Dutchman, James Winter,and myfelf, the four principals, befides four com- ■moh men, to whom we afftgned five thoufandpounds a-piece, which we gave to each of themin dollars: nor did I obferve any difeontent amongthem on account of the bequeft the captain hadmade to me.All my thoughts were immediately bent on getting^off the ifland to forr.e of the tnglifh fettlements. I plainly perceived, that my companionswanted to be again at their old practices: but onecay talking upon the fubje£t of another cruize, Ireprefented to them the danger and uncomfortablefituation we were all in ; that we had each of usa very ample fortune to fuppert us in any part ofthe world; it was, therefore, my advice, that wefhouldTi!JI;itOF AMBROSE GWINETT. 21iifliould immediately put our treafure on board, withEis much 6f the merchandize as we could conve-liently carry off, and make the heft of our way toifamaica, where there was no doubt but we fliouldpe well received.j They agreed to the propofal with more alacritythan I thought they would.—We felt immediately1.0 work, and in two days were prepared to fail.: But though we put a confiderable quantity of bale•; |Toods on board, the quantity dill in the warchoufe: i.vas aftonllhing. I warned the fellows of theiri ‘apacity, and the danger of deeply loading thei ihip, but they would not give over till the couldmold no more; and then the treafute, packed in5 thefts, each man’s fliare feparate to himfelf, we{hut in the cabin.We weighed anchor the 3d. of Auguft, and forfiihree days we had excellent ■weather; but the 4th.3k ftorm began to threaten, and the fymptoms ftilluncreaiing, by midnight fuch a war was raifed be¬tween heaven and earth, as to that hour, I neverttifvas witrlefs of. About three o’clock in the mosn-ing wc were obliged to heave the flrip too under her'■{bare poles, and the fea ran fr> exceeding high thatrwe could keep no lights on board, tho’ the night! ;vas fo dark that we could fcaree fee one anotheri it a quarter of a yard diftance j the wind ftill in-tireafing, we fprung the main-maft about fix feetiirom the d -ck, that nothing could fave it. Weshow began to fed the confequence of too deeplytrading the veffcl. The firft things we thre# over¬board were our guns, and as our cafe became morehind more defperate, every thing followed them,wot excepting our chefts of treafure. Thus I wasa jnce more reduced to my original ftate of poverty.i Is day-light appeared the ftorm abated. We then,r ,s well as we were able, erected jury-mafts; andin■22 LIFE AND ADVENTURESin abbot fodr hours managed, with the createfTmanyI Hiked ;difficulty, to get the veflel again midor fail.I was now (landing behind the man at the wheel,leaning againil the mizen-mait, returning God'thanks in my own mind for our amazing efcape,when the bo at Twain came up to me and laid,“ Damme, Minder Gwinett, y6n have brought us1,all into a pretty hole here ; if it had not been foryou we Ihould not have taken this trip, and loll 'the fubldance we have been working for foyears; but you lop too, I affiare youhim what he meant ? He ftid he would let me fee ;upon which he and two or three others of them''that ca ne behind him, feizing me by the nape ofthe neck, and waiftband of the breeches, forcedme over the rails of the quarter-deck, and dropt' me into the fea. *The (hock of the fall, and the amaze I was inifrom fo u n 6 x p c d an accident, almoft bereaved f’ine of my fenfes : I endeavoured, however, to keep''myfeif above water as well as I could, though I ‘hatV no1 manner of hopes of faving my life MyJfirft attempt w^as to fwirii after the (hip ; but find¬ing that impra'flicaclc, 1 turned about, and, I be¬lieve, might have 1’wam about three quarters of anhour, when being very faint and weak, I began toput up my hill prayer to God, and commit myfelljto the deep; but at that inftant^ turning my heada little afide, I fair, at a fmall dillance from me,what at firft I took for'a barrel ; but, good Lord !what was my joy and aftonifhment, when comingnearer it, I perceived to be one of our own boats,which had been wafhed overboard the night be¬fore; and tb'complete my joy, the oars were laffi-ed to the feat. Almoft fpent as I was, 1 made aIhift to get into it; and here I faw myfeif freed ina miraculous manner, from the fury of the waves:butOF AMBROSE GWINETT. 25it at the fame time I found myfelf in an openiat, at leaft fixty leagues from any land, withoutcompafs or any kind of iMUrifhment whatfoever,alefs I might count fuch fome tobacco I had in ax in one of my waiftcoat pockets, and 1 believemy confcience, it afforded a nourilhment, that,a great meafure helped to prefervetme.It war*a very guat blelfing for me, that mode-:e weather followed the ternpeft, by whichji sans I was enabled to keep the boat tolerablycady. I could not be lefs than thirty hours inis fituation, when I was taken up by a Spanilhtrick ; but I hardly reckon that among fortun-j: accidents; fpt the fame day that I entered thep, one of the men, while I was afleep, hangedmy clothes among the fhrouds to dry ; in do-C it, emptied my pockets, and finding feveralers relative to the pirates’ affairs, as foon asy arrived in Port-Royal, whither they werend, they feized me as one of that defperatejg. I muff obferve to you, that when 1 firfts taken into the flop, I gave a falfe account offelf; which caution ^as my ruin ; for npw con¬ing the truth, and telling them 1 had been forc-into the rffrate’s fervice, with all that had hap-led to me among them, my prevarications madem ffifpecl my veracity, and I was kept twos in prifon; when, by what means I know|, fome of the wretches, with whom I left ourjjndj having been taken as pirates upon the Span-iijcoaffs'in Europe, an order came to bring metrr to Cadiz in Old Spain, in order to be an evi-lice. When I came there, I was again confin-l for many months; but at length, when the pi-!( es were brought to their trial, inftead of beingside ufe of as an evidence, I found n.yfelf treat¬ed24 "TTFET AND ADVliN l Ulll'y, i'cc.ed as a delinquent, and with two others, C(>»„demned to the galleys for life.I wrought on boar them for fome years, whe;the galley I belonged to was ordered to fea, again!an Algerine rover that infefted the coaft; but, in(bead of one, we met with three of them. Thiffue of tire'engagement was fatal to us. Thgreatell part of the crew wece killed, am? the r>|taken prif^ners, amotigft whfch laft I was onehaving loft the leg which you fee me want, in taction.After this, I pafled a long and painful flaveryAlgiers, till, with many other Englifti captives,was releafed, by agreement between the DeyrAlgiers and his Britannic Majefty’s agent, fn t’year 1730, I returned to England. Thetmng I did was to efiquire after my relations; ball thofe neareft to me were dead, and I foundCollins had never returned home; lb.I fuppofe:;he died in his paflage. Though not an old maI was fo enfeebled by hardfhips, that I was unatto work ; and being without any manner of fuport, I could think of no way of getting my liting but by begging.FINIS.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,S A UPMARKET, th’eo.