LIFEOFSAVXD HAGGAH7,WHO WASExefcutoU at Eiinburgh | l<Sth*JuiV. 18^1FORTHE MURDER OFTHE DUMFRIES JAILOR.CONTAININGThe whole ot‘ his depredations and Murders, faithfully copied fronj the large Book written by himseif.——Being the nth big substah'c'^j ‘without' (heRtHHfSuity of language, brought into the foflbw'-i.<g 1'agts With an Account of his BehaviourM. the p’ucp of Execution.Printed for the Bookseller^.T 0F SCOTLAND r)LIFEOFDAVID HAGGART.jT\ A VID II AG G ART was born at a farmtown, called the Golden Acre, nearCannon-tniils, Edinburgh, on the 24th ofJune, 1800, his lather was a game-keeper,but afterwards a dog-trainer. *He was earlyput to school, when he acquired a goodknowledge of English Grammar, Whiting,and Arithmetic. About the age of ten,a trifling accident occured at home, whichfor fear of punishment front his father,determined him to leave home, and fromthat moment he dated the commencementof his sinful career. He had made no wick¬ed acquaintance as yet, but committedseveral depredations by himself.The first of these was stealing a BantamCock from a woman at the back of theNew Town, Edinburgh. Having takena fancy to it, he offered to buy it, hut thewoman w ould net sell it; he fell on the3'heme of putting another cock of his own!fighting, and then came*off with insize. His next was lifting a shop till frompoor woman in Stock-Bridge. Beingme miles from town, ana tired, hepunted a poney which was grazing, one road-side, and rode home, where hejipt it for some time in an out-house,pere he formerly kept a cuddie ; i.e kepti there for several days, until the ownerund it out by accident. At Leith races,i813, he enlisted in the Norfolk Militia,d learned the drum amt bugle-horn; theigiment was disbanded about a year after-rtrds, and he was discharged.|His father was then living in the southIck of the Canongate, Edinburgh, and|fc went home, when he was put as an ap-'jenttce to the Mili-wiight and Engineer-K business, with Cockburn and Baird, ine Canongate, where he behaved withinesty,- and was very well liked by IdsIPP1 overs.I His master having given up business, lie'i is or course thrown idle, and at this time. »t acquainted with many worthless cbar-i teis, among whom was one Barney, an1 ishman ; he had been bred a lay lor inIjumfiies, he was older titan Haggait, of:‘eat bodily strength, and a most skilfulckpocket. Barney put him up to a num-4 * ;ber of tricks, and they agreed to traveltogether.In August f817, when just on the pointof going to England, they past a day atPortobello races, and picked a gentlemanspocket of L. 11 the first ever Haggart at¬tempted in day-light; with this took out- ’side places on the Jedburgh coach, andgot themselves genteeley dressed. Theyattempted St. James’s fair at Kelso, antpicked L.t'S. from two persons:—frorbthence they went to Dumfries, anil stopthree weeks ; they attended Lockerby fairand tt'oing into a public house, a farmerand drover was casting out, when Barney r-blew the coal, and they fell n-fighting', and ■>both tumbled; Barney picked the farnier’apocket of L.^d. H-aggart called for the fwaiter, and appeared in a violent passion, <p aid for a bottle of port er, abused him foiputting them into such company, and intf 1ipediately'left the house. They departed :next morning, and went to Langholm fair,where they took from a sheep farmer eL. 100. in ten pound notes, add L. 10., ir itwenty shilling’- notes. About halt an hourafter they saw John Richardson, a Dum ■tries Officer,- running about, but he die >uot nokice them. i'hey took a post-chafee•tud went to Annan, and next day toolthe coach for C arlisle.- m ‘.5On other nights they got 2 gold watch¬es • they took about L 70. in the whole.,during'their stay at Newcastle. 'They thenwent to Durham, and at night brok’f %lonely house on the road to Yoik ; theygot D.^O. there ; they were appreheodedfor this act, tried and found ginilfy,' an {.pnt back to prison, to be brought up forsentence of death at the end of the assizes.They broke prison that night, but Haggart* only escaped : he provided himself \V\h ai rope-ladder, and give the same to Barney,:,f who made his escape that same night:When Haggart was coming to ihirhamIfroiv, York, with the sgfe, in conripanv witha York pick-pocket, they were pursuedby two constables ; and just as one wasapprehending Haggart, he laid him lowwith his pistol—They got clear away, andI he never knew whither the man was mur-, dered or not, but bethought so.— they]i next went to Coldstream fair, ami Barneyi being; found attempting a farmer’s pocketygot three months in Jedburgh jail. H ag¬gart went to Newcastle again, and to thestone lodgings, where he was treated likei a sort; little did the people know who theywere so kind to.-1—He;did numerous tricks! here, and then proceeded to Edinburgh,.'\ where he carried on the same Line ; bedklnot live in his father’s house.612 September, he started for Perth withone Henry, and had some adventures.—They returned to Leith, and were takenby the Police for some crimes, got bail,and were liberated.had a number of adventures inEdinburgh and neighbourhood, and wasput four tnpnths in Bridewell. After be¬ing released, he met with some of his com¬panions, and took a trip through the north.Me was in Aberdeen Jail for some time,and aftei committing more depredations,returned to Edinburgh.Thev broke into several houses in Edin¬burgh and Leith, and on New-Year’s morn¬ing, 1820, Haggart had for his share, fivesilver watches, and a gold one, taken onthe south and north bridges. He remain¬ed in Edinburgh till the 18th, when hewas taken up and put into the Lock-uphouse to find bail: he got out, and onenight paid a visit to the Lock-up house,and gave the keeper so much drink, thathe got the key, and liberated six prisoners.He went to Leith the night following,and took lodgings in Cupar street, andlived with a woman of the town; whilehere he committed various acts in Leith,Edinburgh, and neighbourhood, by tyingsome shop doors, and thrusting his hand7(through the windows, and grasping whal-i ever goods lay in his toad: breaking into! numerous houses, pickingpocketsof watch-ji cs, &c.— In the course of these operations'I he removed to different lodgings.On ti e first of March, while sitting ini his lodgings with a pickpocket of the name: of Forrest, in Johnson Street, North Leith,I Captain Ross, of the Police, and one of! his men came in upon them-, Ross seizedForrest and carried him off, leaving Hag-i gart in charge of the Policemen: when left! alone, the Policeman opened a bed-roomi door, and was looking into it, when Hag*gart forced him in, locked the door, and.I was making his way down the stair, whenI he was met by Ross and another Police-| man; a struggle commenced, but the three| overpowered Haggart, and he was carried| to the Police Ofhce streaming with blood.I He was kept here two days, and then puti into the jail to stand trial. On the gyth| March he got a small file, anil cut the» chains off iu’s legs, penetrated through twof thick walls with bis handcuffs, liberatedI Forrest, and got to the outside about fveo’clock next morning When on the out¬er stair, he saw a man coming up QueenStreet, and he prepared to give him battle;. but the man oniy said, “ Run, Haggart,run, I wont touch ye,” Haggart iook holdit,; ; . m mm'\'**8of. Foi rest’s liand> and ran even on to Dal¬keith, without stopping; staid there allmg])t, and stole twelve yards blue cloth ;started at two o’clock next morning for ’Kelso, robbed a-farmer of L.4., aud set off* Ifqr Dumfries. They were joined by twoother pickpockets, one of whom was hang¬ed shortly after at Glasgow,.In Dumfries, he picked several pocketsapd eniered different dwelling houses; he , ■met with his old friend Barney M‘Guire, *never having seen him since they parted y tat Kelso in 1818. They were intending to tleave Dumfries that night, but Barney was | *taken up. Haggart started for Carlislenext morning, but was overtaken and carri- ' ied back to Dumfries. Captain Ross ar- ;rived in a few days, and carried him back *t<p Leith Jail. i| tJJarney was transported for fourteenyears. Haggart was tried at Edinburgh onthe 12th. of July, but got off; he was thensent to Dumfries to stand trial at the cir¬cuit there for house breaking. His trialdid not go on, and he was sent to jail— 51there he got acquaint with a lad, John 11Dunbar, who was under sentence of trans- - ,pprtaUqiq, He also got acquaint withsomepeop.'p i)jd^nging to the town, who seem¬ed w(llio^ to do him a favpur ; so Haggartmade, th^ qf four keys, apd a perdue9was togetthem made for him, there beingfour doors betwixt his celi and the street.Having thus, as he thought, secured hisliberty, he was too easily led into anotherIscheme with Dunbar. Haggart thoughtu'mself certain of his own liberty, but hethought it would be a grand thing to clear'ithe jail of dll the prisoners. Laurie, ano-ither prisoner, proposed getting a stone,land tying it in a napkin, and some morn¬ing to knock down Hunter, the head jailor,and take the keys from him. Haggart wasnot fond of using the stone, as he did not(want to hurt the jailor ; and he proposed,when Thomas IMorrin came up to the manunder sentence of death, to'gag him intoa closet at the head of the stair, and takeIthe keys from him ; Dunbar, and someMothers got the stone and put it into 'afbag.I On Tuesday the iOLh of October, about(twelve o’clock, they noticed Huntdr, thetread turnkey leave the jail to attend thfe'ftwo ministers, whom he locked up inIthe cell with M'Grory, who was underIsentence ofdeath.—Shortly after Haggai'tIplaced himcelf in the closet at the head ofthe stair, where he had previously put titlestone and bag. Dunbar lh£n called upMorrin to let out the ministers.. He cameup accordingly with a plate of potatoeisoup for M'Grory, and when he got talthe top of the stair, Haggart came outupon liim from the closet, ami the push*ing open of the door knocked the plate outof ids hand; he then sliuck him one blowwith the stone, dashed him down, andwithout the loss of a moment, pulled thekey ot the outer door from his poeket; hegave only one blow with the stone andthrew it down. Dunbar picked it up, butno more blows were given, so that Mor-rin miif-t have received bis other blows,in ialiing. Haggart; observed Dunbar omthe top of him, rifling his breast for the.key which lie had got. Simson had ahold of Morrin’s shoulders, and was heat¬ing his back upon the steps of the stair.—Haegart rushed past them, crossed thestair as speedily as lie could, pulled the keyfrom his pocket, and opened the outerdoor-On getting out at the door he ran roundthe east corner of the jail wall, ami thenwalked rapidlv round the hack-street, andround a great part of the town, till hetcame to the back of the King’s Arms Inn.Dunbar made up to him, and that verymoment they saw7 a policeman comingright up to meet them; on this theywheeled -about and ran, but Dunbar wasV y11taken before he ran ten yawls, and Hag*gart had the mortihcation to see his fellowadventurer secured; he once thought ofbolting among them to rescue him, butthe mob was too great fo** him ; he wentup through the yard of the King’s Armswithout meeting any body, crossed theHigh Street, and ran down the vennel tothe Nith. He kept along the watersidetill he got away to the east of Cumlanganwood, having run nearly ten miles in lessthan an hour. He then got on the highroad to Annan, when he saw a post-chaiseat full gallop almost within twenty yardsof him. Upon this he buttoned his coat,I and leapt a hedge into a field where somepeople were raising potatoes. They alljoined the policemen, who had got out ofthe chaise in pursuit of him ; he crossedthe field at a slapping pace, and made forCumlungan wood ; lie bolted over a verydeep ditch covered with briers, and ran afew steps along the side of the hedge tomake the police-men think he was goinginto the wood ; he then wheeled round,louted, and when they went up the oneside of the ditch lie ran down the other:little did they know he was so near them,Ihe could have breathed upon John Rich¬ardson as he passed him. In this way hecame lo the cross road which leads from124,he Nith to the public road, and never dida fox double the hounds in better style.He then made for Annan, and getting- on a mile or two on the Carlisle road, hewent into a belt of planting. Watchinga’.i opportunity, he dived into a bay stack,anil lay there till next day at two ofoldckin the afternoon, when he beard a woman ^ask a bov. if tlmb lad was taken who bad ;broke out of Dumfries jail; the boy an¬swered no, but the jailor died last night,(dn hioaring this, Haggart lay insensible fora good while : he left the Stae/r, and See¬ing a scarecrowr in the field, he took sbrneof the old clothes and put them on to dis¬guise himself. On the Wednesday nighthe slept in a hay loft; in tiie morning twomen wgre foeding then horses,.andheovier-heard them speaking about him ; ‘lie start¬ed for Carlisle, and then to iNewcast’fe, ,•where he stopped for some days, and alongwith one Me min g, picked L.22., in therayrket from a man : here he passed close ..itojohn Richardson who was in (jvvefit ot !biim, but was not noticed. He left Mew-icaatla tor bcotlanil, be got upon the Ber¬wick Coach, and then took a ticket forifckiinburgh, but only went to Dunbar, inthe Coach, remained in Dunbar, and setofffbr Edinburgh next morning ; met with& gentleman, and took the some lodgings13• ivit'h him in the Lord Du.itcan Tavern,I Lanongate. \fter separatini;' from theiJU^ntIonian, he stopt at Jock’s Lodge withII <» friend ; while here he visited his father,i»ndsome acquaintances, disguised in wo¬man’s clothes. One night, dressed in hisown clothes; taking a walk from Portobel-k> to Leith, he met Captain Ross of thepj'Leiph Polios, their eyes met, and both| stood ineCon-iesS mi til Hagg'art feigned tois psdi a pistol from his breast, the Captainn knowing him too well before, immediatelyi took to his heels, and tlaggart immediately' turned through the fields, and made toIJ Jock’s Lodge; he tlien crossed the Forth,and went through Ctfoar to Dundee, and!| disguised iritnseif in sailor’s clothes ; here'■he committed a number of depredations.[i He then returned to Newliaven, and went_ up to Edinburgh, and the first thing .ht?was a bill poster! up offering a reward-of 7<) guineas t’or Ids apprehension ; thisdetermined him to go north again ; he ar¬rived in Dundee, and from thence wenttb Perth ; he attended the fairs in Perth,Dunkeld, Kenmore, &c. and robbed someCattle-dealers to a considerable amount,: One night in his lodgings in Perth, twopolice-men came in upon him, but the de¬termined manner in wduch he receivedthem, made them hesitate in apprehend-mming and Haggart gained an opportunity;1to escape ; he left Perth for Glasgow, andmade up his mind to go to Ireland, and!started in the Steam Boat; here he wasrecognized by the Provost of Kircaklywho went ashore at Lamlash ; Haggaiiwas ready to jump overboard, but theboat came off without the Provost; lielanded in Belfast, where he attended fairs,&c, and was in continual scenes of robbing,knocking down, kc. At Drummore mar¬ket he was seized and taken before a ma¬gistrate ; he was asked what name he had*he answered in high Tipperara, it wasJohn M'Colgau, from Armagh ; he wascross examined, and shewn a Dublin paperwith a description of his person, kc.; hedenied being a Scotsman, and passed offthe brogue so well that the magistrate wasin doubts; but he was ordered to be de¬tained, and three yeomen sat in the court¬house to guard him; he plied them so wellwith drink, that he prevailed on them tolet a young woman bring him some supper;,and when she came, lie got leave to speakwith her privately behmil the boxes of the*court, where there is a large window ; he'bolted right through the window withoutbeing hurt by the fall: He crossed thestreet, and into an entry, where he sawhis keepers below the window staring ateach other; lie started for Belfast and thento Dublin, and paid his passage for Ame¬rica at the Pigeon-house, hut meeting inwith one called 0‘Brian, he changed hisI mind ; here he robbed a man of 100 gui¬neas in gold, and jaunted through thecountry in Cars, with women of bad fsme;he was taken up for robbing a drover atDownpatrick, and put into jail, where hesaw more scenes of wickedness than everhe had witnessed all his life ; the women’sroom was immediately above the men’s,and eight day’s provision was served outto them at one time; they blocked up thedoors, made a hole betwixt the two apart¬ments, and kept possession in the mostriotous manner; before his trial he bribedthe drover to swear he was not the person,and he was banished for 7 years; in jailhe was visited by the magistrate of Drum-more, who ordered the jailor to pur, himin strong irons,Haggarl denied that he had ever beenin Drummore, and said his name was0‘Brien,and not M‘Colgan; he was movedto Kiimainhamjail, among other criminals;here he made his escape, but was catchedby some of the prisoners informing thejailor of his designs.Next morning the whole prisoners, con¬sisting of some hundreds, were taken down16to a yard, arid ranked up jn companies oftwenty each. In a few minutes John Rich¬ardson made his appearance, accompaniedby Cie two jailors and a turnkey. Johnbe^an In's inspection^ and went over thewhole <Vf them ; then making a secondlook-through, he stopped at tlaggart, hetdout his hand and said, ‘ Do you ken me,Davie?’ He turned to the jailor, and ina masterpiece of Irish brogue, said, ‘ Whatdoes the man say ?’ Don’t you knowhim ?’ was the answer. He replied, £ Trothand by my soul, 1 know nothing at allabout hitriJ Tut John persisted tba/ lieknew him, and he was conveyed to thecondemned jged ; the jailor telling himif he was a Scotchman lie was greatly mis¬taken, for he had the brogue as well asere ahoy in Iceland,—but time would tryall. He was nearly two days in the con¬demned yard, during which he had twovisit? from John Richardson ; but he stout¬ly denied that he had ever seen him.On the evening of the second day Hag-gart was taken to thehCadpolice-office, andheavily load with irons. An iron beltwas fixed round his waist, with his wristspinioned to each side of it; a Chain passedfrom the front of the belt and joined thecentre of a chain each end of which waspadlocked round his ankles, and a chainparsed from each wrist to each ankJe. Inithis dreadful state of torture and confine¬ment; he was conducted by John Knehard-son, and an Irish officer by the nanrie ofRobinson, to Dumfries. They were threeI days and two nights upon the road, andi all the time lie never had his hatid to hismouth, and was fed like a sucking' turkey[ in bedlam, and treated like a helpless in-I fant. As to the officers who conveyed him,t never could man behave better to his ownson then they both did to him. He had1 known John Richardson before, and hadlong been acquainted with his humane dis-!|j| position, which was tried and proved onthis occasion. They travelled a good wayj| on the road before lie would acknowledgethat he had ever se*m John; but he sawthat it was of no use to keep tip his pre¬tended ignorance any longer. Indeed,from tlie time he was placed in the con¬demned cells of Kilmainham, he had onlydone so out of obstincy.On their approach towards Dumfrieswhich was in the daik, there were manythousands of people on the road, many ofthem with torches in their hands, waitinghis arrval ; and when he got to the jail-door, it was scarcely possible to get himout of th.e coach for the multitude—allcrowded for a sight of- Haggaut tmk18Murderer. Some seemed sorry, andsome terrified for him ; but there was notone of them ail so sorry, or so terrified ashimself. He plunged through them, rat¬ling his chains, and making a great showof courage, but his heart was shaking atthe thought of poor Mon in. As he wentup the narrow.stair to the cells, he had topass the very spot where he struck him ;and oh ! it was like fire under his feet.He was locked up in his old cell, andthe greater part of the Irish irons weretaken off him. He was kept at Dumfriesabout three weeks, during which he wastwice examined before the Sheriff; butthey could not get what they call a declara¬tion out of him, for he knew that wouldbe used against him, so he thought it aswell to keep his tongue within his teeth;and this he would advise every man whois accused of a crime to do, whether he isinnocent or guilty. Hut when the examin¬ation was over, he offered-to tell the wholeof his story to them privately, and he didtell a good deal of it.From Dumfries he was conveyed toEdinburgh Jail and placed once more un¬der the charge of Captain Sibbald, thekindest and the best jailor in the world.His word may be taken for this, as he hashad some experience. He was soon after19ulicted to stand his.trial before the Mh'h'oui't of Justiciary, for the murder ofrhqqfias Morrin.In about a fortnight, the day of hisrial clime. He had been carried the evem;pg before from the Gallon Jail to theLock-iip*house in the old town, and he wastaken into the Court about ten o’clock onthe morning of the. 11th of June.We shall conclude this Narrative, in hishvn words:—“ Many witnesses were ex-[mined against me, and some of them didliot speak the truth ; but I say nothing'gainst them, for perhaps they were onlymistaken. 1 was fully as wicked as theymade me. There was one xcitness, whoihonld have said that he knew of our plan,and our only object was liberty, not tomurder poor Thomas Morrin. Hu! thiswould have made no difference, for it was:;he pleasure of God Almighty that 1 shouldcome tc end.Ai- that man could do was done for metit my trial, and l had got, hopes till the(Judge began to speak ; but then my spirits‘fell, for his speaking was sore against me.11 did not altogether despair when I sawdie Jury talking together. But, oh !—•when they said Guilty! my very heartbroke ; but I was even then too proud toshew my feeling?, and I almost bit my lip20through in hiding them When the Judge !was passing the awfitl sentence, T turneddizzy, and gapped for breath. They ^ay I 1ionked cartdess, but they coUi;T nb't seewithirt me. I did not know what had ’happened, or where I was—-I thought of ;every thing in a minute—i thought-of mylather—und i thought of my motlVrir', whodied of .a broken heart—I thought of es¬cape, and very near made a p!tinge overthe heads of the crowd—then f could hayecried out. When the sentence was over,I gathered my thoughts, and my heartwas as haid as ever ; for f said, “ Veil,!the man that is born to he hanged, willnot be diowned !” 1 his was very wicked,blit I could not help it, for 1 had no Com-raatiid' of my thoughts or \vords.But these wild and wicked thoughtssoon left me. livery body was very kind tome. How this happens 1 cannot tell, forfrom my infancy my hand has been againstevery man, and I never saw a- human be-mtr without trying to do them harm—,This kindness is a awful lesson to menow, but it has done my heart good; for !it is the sorest punishment. [ have met withyet- in this world. 1 have been visited by |several clergymen- They have prayedmuch with me and for me. I tokl them1 had no words to but they taugh*/mm.21me, inaile me read.my Bible, and gave mehopes of mercy in Heaven—at least suchhopes as a poor miserable wretch like mecan have, for my sins sticic close to me.I have no thought now but death, andit is coming so near, that I must forgetthis world, and think only of the next.-—I have told all I remember of my life truly—1 iiope the tale will shew my old com¬rades, if they ever see it, that their wickedwavs will bring them to untimely ends.”EXECUTION7.Early on the morning of' his execution,David Haggart joined earnestly in devo¬tional exercLe with his ministerial atten¬dant. After the Captain of the Jail hadgiven a prayer, one of the officers of jus¬tice appeared, and requested all the per¬sons present to retire, as he had somethingto communicate to the unhappy prisoner,ilaggart immediatey exclaimed in a hur¬ried tone, “Oh! I suppose it is the exe¬cutioner.” His firmness for a momentabandoned him, and he walked rapidlracross the cell, with his arms folded* and22with dark and’deep despair strongly paint¬ed on Ids countenance. He speedily how¬ever, regained his composure: and whenth.e executioner did appear, at once allow¬ed his arms to be bound ; he was then re¬moved to a hall in the lower pait of theLock-up house, where he was received bytwo of the clergymen of Edinburgh, andthe magistrates. After prayers, the pro¬cession proceeded to the scaffold. Theconduct of the unfortunate youth therewas in the highest degree becoming While the beneficial influence of religionwas apparent in his whole demeanour, hisnatural firmness of character never for amoment forsook him ; he kneeled down,and uttered an earnest prayer ; and, afteraddressing afew words of deep and, anxiousexhortation, to the great multitude bywhich he was surrounded, he met his fatewith the same intrepidity, which distin¬guished all the actions of his short, butguilty and eventful life.The following Lines were made by JHag-gart, the day after his condemnation ; buthis mind soon changed to a more serioussubject, and his whole deportment wasextremely pious.23Isle and willing you will me find,io’ bound in chains, still free in mind ;>r with tliese things I’ll ne’er be griev’d,rho’ of freedom I’m bereav’d.this vain world there is no rest,ul life is but a span at best;)e rich, the poor, the old, the young,all all lie low before it’s long.km a rogue, I don’t deny,iit never liv’d by treachery ;id to rob a poor man I disown,it them that are of high renows.t!t)?>w for the crime I am condemned,ie same I never did intend,dy my liberty to take,I i thought my life did lie at siake.y life, by perjury, was sworn away,1 say that to my dying day.i, treacherous S , you did me betray,r all I wanted was liberty.Is-liilll\'fH3 malice in my heart is found,p any man above the ground ;ow, all my people that speak of me,>u may say 1 died for my liberty.24Although in chains you see me last.No frown upon my friends you 11 cast,For my relations were not to blame.And i brought mv parents to grief ata-4 jshame.Now, all you ramblers, in mourning go,Foi the Prince ot‘ Ramblers is lying io # ,And all you maidens, who lo\e the game^Put on your mourning veils again.And ali you powers of music chaunt,To the memory of my dying rantA song of melancholy'Fill you make the very rafters ring.Farewell relations, and friends also.The time is come /hat 1 must po,As for foes, I have, but one,Rut to the same I’ve done no wrunj.M NTS.life 1