FUN UPON FUN:Ott, THEComical and Merry TrickyLEPER the TAILOR.IN TWO PARTS.OF SCOTLANDKILMARNOCKPRINTED BY CRAWFORD,THE MERRY TRICKSOFLeper the Taylor.T EPER’S father lived in a village aboisix miles from Glasgow, and diewhen he was but very young; he leftwidow ^and three children, two daughterand a son ^ Leper being the youngest, wjgreatly iHoliz^L'tSy^his ffib^er, whowasAs Leper grew* u grew awery mi:neighbourhood, such as tying catsTb doctails, breaking hen’s legs, stopping peoplelums, or chimney-tops; so that his pocimother was sadly vexed with complaintagainst him.To get him kept from mischief, she pretrailed with a taylor to take him an apprertice j he settled, and was very peaceable fcsome time, until he got so much of h:trade ou his finger ends as he might paefor a journeyman, and then he was indiferent whether he staid with his master cnot: his mistress gave him but very littlmeat when he wrought at home, so he like3; best to be in other houses, where he gotaueat and diversion.Leper being resolved on revenge againsthis mistress for her thin kail, no kitckert,; and little bread ; for though flesh was boil’dI in the pot, none for poor Leper and hismaster, but a little bit on Sunday’s, and allthe bones were kept and put in the pot, tomake the broth through the week. Leperperceived always when she took off the pot,she turned her back and took out the flesh,and set it on a shelf in her own bedroom;one night, after work, he steals ou‘. a pan,cuts a piece of flesh out of a dead horse,and then goes to a lime kiln, and boils it;next day his master being from home, hislandlady and him being in the house, aftershe had set off the pot as usual, and takesout her bit of good beef, he goes out forsome time and then comes in, saying theminister’s lass is wishing to see you, to godirectly and speak to her mistress. Off shegoes in all haste, Leper i uns and takes awayher bits of good meat, and lays down hishorse flesh ; and knowing she would returnin a passion, and sit down with a soss inher cushioned chair, as she used, he takesa large pin, and staps it straight throughthe cushion, with its head on the chair andthe point to her backnde. So in she comesin a rage, and down she sits with all her4»veight on the pin point, and then roarout murder! murder ! for sbx was stickein the a—e: the neighbours come runningin, and Leper went out with his bit of goocLeef, leaving the wives to doctor his landlady’s doup, as they pleased; he still deniecthe doing of it, and his master believed imight happen accidentally, but the houduwas very oft to be had before it was gohale again; and his landlady by eating othat horse beef, took such a loathing aflesh that Leper and his master got all thebeef ever after, and his landlady turned oneof the kindest mistresses a prentibe coulcwish for.There was a neighbour wife on whoa:Leper used to play tricks sometimes, foiwhich she came and complained to his mas¬ter and had him severely beaten severatimes; Leper resolved to be revenged onher ; so one night he came to the backsideof the house, (no one being in but herselfand took up a big stone, and runs alongthe rough wall with all his strength, whichroared like thunder in the inside of thehouse, and frighted the wife so, that shethought the house was tumbling dowrabout her ears, and she ran out and saldown at a distance, looking every minutewhen the house would fall down, till heihusband came home and persuaded her tc5go in, to whom she told the above story;’* hout tout, daft tapie,* said he, ‘ the housewill stand these hundred years/ Leperknowing they were both in, comes andplays the same trick over again, which alsofrightened the goodman so much, that hecried out—“ run Maggy, run, for my heartplays pitty patty.” And they would notlodge in the house any more, till the ma¬sons convinced them of its sufficiency.There was another neighbour who had asnarling cur dog, which bit Leper’s leg;Leper resolved to be revenged on the dag,and so one night he catches the dog, andcarries him to the kirk where the rope ofthe bell hung on the outside, so with Insgarter he tied the dog’s fore foot to therope, and left hirn hanging; the dog strug¬gling to get free set the bella-ringing, whichalarmed the whole village; every one criedout, “ wonderful fire ! wonderful fire! thedevil is ringing the bell.” When- they sawthe black colley hanging at the rope, I trueit set the minister, and all the people totheir prayers: but Leper fearing he wouldbe detected by his garter, came to the mi¬nister’s side, and asked the reverend gentle¬man what was the matter indeed, mybairn, said he, ’tis the deil ringing the kirkbell; says Leper, I’ll go and see him, for1 never saw the devil: the minister cried6stop the mad laddie, but Leper ran andloosed the dog, crying it’s such a man’sdog, which had the rope in its teeth ; theyall cried out, “ the deil’s i’ the cur, thedeil’s i’ the dogthen took up stones andhelled poor colley, and the devil got theblame of making the dog ring the bell.—This spread Leper’s fame, for being one ofthe wisest and most courageous taylors thatwas in all the kingdom ; and many shakingtheir heads, said, “ it was a pity he was ataylor, but a captain or general of an army,as the devil could not fear him.”After this a farmer in the neighbourhoodhearing the fame of Leper, how he hadfrighted the deil frae being a bellman, sentfor him to an ale-house, and drank withhim very heartily, aod told him he wassadly borne down by a spirit of jealousyagainst his wife: and a suspicion of herbeing too free with a servant lad he hadbefore ; and if he would keep it secret andlearn him to find it out, he would give hismother a load of meal, to which Leperagreed ; so he gave the poor supposed cuc¬kold instructions how to behave. So homehe goes, and feigns himself very sick, andevery day worse and worse, taking deathto him ; blesses his three small children,and charges his wife not to marry until hischildren could do something for themselves.7This hypocritical woman takes a crying,Aha! marry, she should never marry ! no,no, there should never a man lie by myside, or kiss my lips after thee, my ain dearlamb Johnny. Then he acts the dead manas well as he possibly could ; the neighbourswere called in, and he’s fairly o’erseen, asthe old saying is, before good neighbours.The sorrowful widow made sad lament,wrung her hands and tore her hair.— Thereverend women about, began to dress thecorpse, asked her for a shirt. Ay. ay, saidshe, he has twa new linen sarks, and thereis an auld ane in the bottom o’ the kist,that naebody can wear, ony thing’s goodenough for the grave; well, said they, wemust have some linen for a winding sheet;a*well, quo she, I hae twa cut o’ linen i'the kist neuk, but there’s a pair o’ auldlinen sheets, hol’d i’ the middle, may dowell enough, 1 hae need to be carefu’, I ama poor widow the day wi’ three sma*bairns.Well, the corpse is dressed, and laid onthe tap of the big chest, while neighbourssat by her condoling her misfortune, andhow the funeral raisins were to be provided:said one the coflin must needs be seen aboutfirst. Ay, ay, he has some new deals inthe barn, he bought them to make a bedo’, but we’il no break them, there’s the8auld barn door, and ihe caff kist will dowell enough, ony thing’s gude enough togang to the grave wi’; but O quo she, sendfor Sandy, my honest auld servant, andhe’ll see every thing right done; I'll tellhim where he will get siller to do any thingwi’, he’s the lad that will not see mewrang’d; then Sandy comes wrying hisface, and rubbing his eyes. O Sandy,there’s a sad alteration here, and ba-a-a, shecries like a bitten calf, O sirs, will ye ganga’ butt the house till l tell him what to do;butt they went, and there she fell a kissingof Sandy, ami said, now, my dear, theauid chattering ghaist is awa’ and well getour will o’ither; be as haining of everything as ye can, for thou kens it’s a’ thyain ; but the corpse's sister and some otherpeople coming in, ben they came to seethe corpse, lifts up the cloth off his face,and seeing him all in a pour of sweat, saidheigh he’s a bonny corp, and a lively likecolour. When he could no longer containhimself to carry on the joke, but up he gotamong them, a deal of people ran for it,and his wife cried out, O my dear do youken me? Ay^Aou base jade and whore,better than ever I did. Jumps on the floor,gets his staff and runs after Sandy, andcatches him in the fields, a little from thehouse j—ate and drank with his sister and9neighbours who had come to see his corpse ;and poor Sandy went home with a skimfull of terror, and a sorting of sore bones,touk a sore fever, and died a few days after,so he got quit of his cuckolder, and Leper’s: mother got her load of meal.Leper’s mother was a careful industriousj wife, but as the bye-word is “ a working; mother makes a dally daughter,” and so it! happened here, for she had two idle gleakett sluts of daughters, that would do nothing(but lie in their bed in the morning, till,as the saying is, “ the sun was like to burna hole in their backsides.” The old wo¬man, who was bleaching some cloth, wasvery early at work in the mornings, andLeper’s patience being worn out with thelaziness of his two sisters, he resolved toplay a trick on them, for their reformation;so he goes and gets a mortcloth, and spreadit on the bed above them, and sends thedead bell through the town, inviting thepeople next day at four o’clock afternoon,to the burial of his two sisters, for they haddied sudenly : this brought all the neigh¬bouring wives in, who one after anotherlifted up the mortdoth and said, with asigh, they’ve gone to their rest, a suddencall indeed i Their aunt hearing of thissudden news, came running in all haste,and coming where the jades mither was at10work, and was ignorant of the story, shcries out, Fye upon ye, woman, fye uponiye! What’s the' matter, sister, says shejiwhat’s the matter! I think you might letyour work stand for ae day, when yourdaughters are baith lyihg corpse. Mybairns corpse! I am certain they went to|bed hale and fair last night. But I tell you,says the other, the dead beil has been thro’warning the folks to the burial; then themother cries out, O the villain ! O thevillain ! that he did not send me word.—So they both ran, and the mother as soonas she entered the house, flies to the bed,crying, O my burns, my dear bairns; onwhich the sluts rose up in a consternation,to the^gieat surprise of the beholders, andthe great mortification of the girls, whothought shame to set their noses out ofdoors, and to the great diversion of thetvhole town.Leper and his master went to a gentle¬man’s house to work, where there was asaucy house-keeper, who had more igno¬rance and pride than good sense and manHers; she domineered over her fellow ser¬vants iii a tyrannical manner. Leper re¬solved to mortify her pride ; so he finds anant’s nest, and takes their white eggs, grindsthem to a powder, and puts them into thedish her supper sowens was to be put in.11After she had taken her supper, as she was*covering the table, the ’mmock powder be¬gan to operate, and she let a great fart■well done Margaret, says the Laird, yourarse would take a cautioner. Before shegot out of the chamber door she let flyanother crack; then she goes to order herfellow-servant to give the Laird his supper,but before she could give the necessary di¬rections, she gave fire again, which setthem all a laughing; she runs into a roomherself, and there she played away her onegun battery so fast, that you would havethought she had been besieging the Havan-nah. The Laird and Lady came to hearthe fun, they were like to split their sidesat proud Maggy. So, next morning sheleft her place, to the great satisfaction ofall her fellow-servants.PART II.EPER’s landlady became very harsh tohL master, and very often abusedhim exceedingly sore with her tongue andhands, and always called upon him formore money, and to have all the moneym her keeping; which Leper was sorry for.It so happened on a day that the. taylor had4i tva hearty drubbing both with tongueand tongs, that he pouched his thimble andwas soing to make a Queen of her: when-she saw that, she cried out, O! will youleave a poor tender dying woman. ButLeper knowing the cause of her ill-naturebetter than his master did, advised him totake her on a fine day, like a mile out oftown, at d give her a walk, and he wouldstay at home, and study a remedy for herdisorder.— Away they both goes; but asshe was always complaining for want ofhealth, and that she was very weak, shecried frequently out, O ! ltis a Crying sinto take a woman 'n my condition out o’era door. During their absence, Leper goesand searches he bed, and below the bolsterhe gets a bottle of rare whisky, of which' hetakes a hearty pul!, and then pisses in it tomake it up; gets a halfpenny worth ofsnuff, and puts iu in also, shakes all toge¬ther, and so sets it in its place again.—Home they came, and she.was exceedinglydistressed as a woman could be, and criedout it was a horrid thing to take her outof the house. The taylor seeing her sobad, thought she would have died, ran asfast as he could for a drain, but she in herhypocrisy pretended site could not tike it,and called on him to help het to bed, into}ay3 {ier. J;c %vas not well gonei when she fell to her bottle, taking two orthree hearty gluts, then she roars out mur-! der, I’m poisoned, I’m poisoned. Bookingi and purging began, and the neighboursi were called in ; she leaves her blood uponpoor Leper, and tells how such an honestwoman brought her ae bottle as anotheru'as done, and the murdering loon hadstolen it, and put in a bottle of poison in¬stead of it. . Leper took to his heels, butwas pursued and carried before a justice ofthe peace, where he told all he livid done,which made the justice laugh heartily atthe joke; and the tailor’s wife was wellpurged from her feigned sickness, laziness,and cursed ill nature; for always when shebegan to cur! her nose for the future, thetailor had no more to say, but Maggy mindthe bottle.Leper was working with a master-tailorin Glasgow’, who hungered his men ; andone morning, just when breakfast was seton the table, in conics a gentleman to tryon a suit of clothes; the master being/obliged to rise, desired the lads to say thegrace themselves. Every one refused it,and put it to his neighbour, till Leper un¬dertook it, and said with an audible voice,that the stranger gentleman might over¬hear him, as follows:—‘ Och, huch 1 weare a parcel of poor beastly bodies, and wc14are as beastly minded; if we do not workwe get nothing to eat; yet we are alwayseating and always freting; singing and halfstarving is like to be our fortune; scartingsand scrapings are the most of our mouth¬fuls. We would fain thank thee for ourfulness, if it were so, but the test of ourbenefactors are not worthy the acknow¬ledging; hey, Amen.’ The gentlemanlaughed til! his sides were like to burst,and gave Leper half-a'crown to drink.Leper was not long done with his ap-* prenticeship till he set up for himself, andgot a journeyman and an apprentice, wascoming into very good business, and hadhe restrained his roguish tricks, he mighthave done very well. He and his lads be¬ing employed to work in a farmer’s house,where the housewife was a great miser, andnot very cleanly in making meat, andsneevled through her nose greatly when,she spoke.—In the morning, when shewent to make t-he/r pottage, she made afashion of washing the pot, which to ap- Jpearance seemed to him to have beenamongst-the first that had been made ; thenshe set it before the lire till she went tothe well, in which time Leper looking intoit, sees two great holes stapped with clouts,he taks up his goose, and holds it as highAs his head, then lets it drop into the pot.15which knocked out the bottom of it: pre¬sently in comes the wife with the water,and pours it into the pot, which set thefireside all in a dam, for still as she pouredin, it ran out, the wife being short-sighted,or what they call sand blind, looks intothe pot, holds up both her hands, and cries,“ Losh preserve me, sirs, for the gripatween the twa holes is broken.” SaysLeper, the pot was old enough ; but do younot ken that tailor’s pottage is heavier thanother men’s. Indeed lad I believe it, butthey say ye’re a warlock; it’s Wednesdayall the world o’er, and a waefu’ Wednes¬day to me indeed, my pot might hae servedme this fifty year, a sae wad it e’en.This sport diverted Leper and his ladsthrough the day; and after supper, know¬ing he was to get some dirty bed, as thecows and the people lived all in one apart¬ment, he chose rather to go home; andknowing the moon was to rise a little aftermidnight, he sat by the fire, told themmany a fine.story to diive away the time,and bad the wife make the bed to see howit might be: to save candle, she made ftin the dark, directly on the floor behindwhere they sat, shaking down two bottlesof straw; a calf which chanced to belyingon that place, and which the wife did notnotice was covered wkh the straw, and16the bed clothes spread over it. The mostof the family being in bed, the wife toldthem to go to bed also; but Leper know¬ing of the calf, said I’ll make my bed cometo me, on which the wife began to pray .for herself and all that was in the house;so up he gets his elwand, and gives a strokeon the bed, which caused the brute t« rise,and not seeing where to go, it fell a cryingand turned round, which set the wholehouse a roaring out murder in their owntongue. The goodwife ran to the bedabove the goodman, and the whole familycried out, not knowing what it was; butLeper and his two lads whipt off the blan¬kets, and the brute ran in among the restunperceiv^d ; then Leper lighted a candle,and all of them got out of bed, paid Leperfor his work, and more if he pleased, andbegged him to go away, "nd take the devilwith him. So home he went, but neverwas employed by that wife any more.Leper had a peal of the best customersboth in town and country ; so one timehe had occasion to go to the parish of In-chinan, to make a wedding suit for a gen¬tleman. after they were finished he desireddrink money for his lads, which the gentle¬man refused : Leper resolved to be evenwith hitn, so he goes to the hay-loft, wherethe groom slept, and takes his stockings,17breeches, ahd jacket, sewt them all together,and stuffs them full of hay; makes a head,. puts a rope a.Dout the neck, and hangs it oni a tree, opposite to the laird’s window ; then; goes to the laird^ and tells him that his1 groom had hanged himself, and that if hei would ooen his window he would see him»I hanging; the laird was struck with astonish-j rr.ent, and knew rot what to do; Le[»er! advises him to bury him privately, The' laird said he had not a servant he couldtrust, so begged Leper to do it. Leper re¬fuses, till the laird promises him a load ofmeal, then Leper pulls out all the hay outof the groom's clothes; goes and gets hisload of meal, and sends it to Glasgow,—then goes to the groom and says, lad, thymaster is wanting thee. So the lad in allhaste runs to see what his master wanted,the laird no sooner saw him open the door,than he cried out, Avoid thee Satan, avoidthee Satan ! The lad says, what’s the mat¬ter? Did rot you hang yourself this morn¬ing? Lord forbid! said the lad. 1 he lairdsays, if thou be an earthly creature, takethat tankard and drink ; which he did ;'thensays he to his master, Leper called me up,and said you wanted me in all haste. Ho,ho, said the laird, I find out the story now,if I had Leper 1 would run my sword thro’18him; but Leper before that was gone foriGlasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads their t^Sunday’s supper, which obliged him to stay ’•from the kirk in the afternoon, he havingneither wife nor servant maid ; so one Sun¬day afternoon as he was cooking his pot,John Mucklecheek, and James Puff-and-blaw, two civileers, having more zeal thanknowledge, came upon him, and said,—What’s the matter, sir, you go not to thekirk ? Leper replied, lam reading my book,and cooking my pot, which 1 think is awork of necessity. Then says the one tothe other, don’t answer that graceless fel- .jlow, we’ll make him appear before his bet¬ters ; so they took the kail pot, and putsa staff through the bools, and bears it tothe Clerk’s Chamber. Leper, who wasnever at a loss for invention, goes to thePrincipal of the College’s house, no bodybeing at home but a lass roasting a leg ofmutton ; Leper says, my dear will you goand bring me a drink of ale, and I’ll turnthe spit till you come back. The lass wasno sooner gone, than he runs away withthe leg of mutton, which served his ladsand him for their supper. When the Prin¬cipal came home, he was neither to baudnor to bind he was so angry; so on Mon¬day he goes and makes complaint to the19Lord Provost, who sends two officers forLeper, who came immediately. My Lordasked him how he dared to take away the'Principal’s mutton ? Leper replied, howdared your civileers to take away my kailpot ? I’m sure there is less in making a potfull of kail, than roasting a leg of mutton,law makers shguld not be law breakers, soI demand justice on the civileers? TheProvost asked him what justice he wouldhave ? says he, make them carry the potback again ; and to the Principal, a leg ofmutton will not make him and me fall out:so they vrere forced to carry the pot backagain, and Leper caused the boy* to huzzaafter them to their disgrace.There was a barber who always plaguedLeper, and called him prick-the-louse.—Leper resolved to be even with him, so hegoes and buys three sheep heads, and sendsfor the barber, and told him that there werethree fine Southland gentlemen just come tohis house, who much wanted to be shaved,and he assured him he would receive six¬pence for each one of them •,—this goodnews made the shaver send for a dram ;—Leper was still praising them for quiet goodnatured gentlemen. So Leper takes him tothe bed w here the sheep heads lay covered,he.d desired him to awaken them for theywould not be angry, or say an ill word to20him ; the barber lifts the covering and seesathe sheep heads, run# out cursing and swear- |Jing, and Leper crying after him, sheep head ||barber.d he barber reolved to be revenged on ILeper, so when he was shaving Mess John, Lhe tells him that Leper was the drunkenestfellow-in the parish. So Mess John warnshim to the session; Leper comes and says,what do you want with me, Sir ? Comeaway Leper, says Mess John, I hear a badreport of you ; Me, Sir, I am sure theywere not my friends that told you that.—Indeed, I am informed you are a drunk¬ard.—I a drunkard, you have not a sober¬er man in your parish : stop Sir, I will tellyou how I lead my life-—in the morning 1take a choppin of ale and a bit of bread, thatI call my morning; for breakfast I gener¬ally take a herring and a choppin of ale, for1 cannot sup brose like my lads ; the her¬ring makes me dry, so at eleven hours I takea pint, and sometimes three choppins; atsupper I take a bit of bread and cheese anda pint, and so go to bed. Mess John says,its extravagant Sir, its excessive drinking,I allow you the one half of it for a quarterof-a year. Says Leper, i’ll try it, Sir, andcome back and tell you. At the end of the 'quarter he draws out his account, and goes,to Mess John, who was sitting with his el21ders in the Session-house, and says; Sir, Ihave a demand on you ; On me. Sir; Yes,on you, Sir; Don't you remember you al¬lowed me so much drink for a quarter of ayear, and I want the money. Am I to payyour reckoning, Sir. You allowed it, andif you wont pay it I’ll take you before theProvost. The elders advised him to pay itor he would be affronted ; so Leper got themoney. When he was at the door, hesays, Sir, will you stand another quarter;Get aw'ay, says Mess John, and don’t trou¬ble me. Leper says, I am sure you may,for I am always twopence to your penny.THE END.f .V22on land ; but how hr - ame by this moneyno person could tell; There were variou^conjectures about it, but no person coulcmake it out. H* also made a. Will accord¬ing to law; in which he made his son hciuof all his money and effects, which amount¬ed to fifteen hundred pounds ; and the nextday he died in great pain. He was washedand dressed, according to the custom, andremained so for twelve hours. At whichhis son and two other gentlemen, who livednear the town, were present, sitting wherethe funeral was to be ordered, he startedup in the bed, to the great surprize of allpresent! When they saw that, they beganto run to the door, striving who’d be outfirst, the son being almost dead with fear.The father called to them not to be^rul a (hi^ppm'of1 cannot sup brose like my lads; the her¬ring makes me dry, so at eleven hours l takea pint, and sometimes three choppins; atsupper I take a bit of bread and cheese anda pint, and so go to bed. Mess John says,its extravagant Sir, its excessive drinking,I allow you the one half of it for a quarterof a year. Says Leper, i’ll try it, Sir, and icome back and tell you. At the end of the"quarter he draws out his account, and goes*to Mess John, who was sitting with Ins el