T H ELIFEANDPROPHECIESOf the RevehehdVTr Alexander Peden,( Late MINISTER of the Gofpel,AT NEW GLENLUCE, in GALLOWAY. -J which he fortells what is to happen to Ireland and ''Scotland in thcfc letter days, particularly, to the SoothSand,weft of Scotland, for their manifold and heinousfms, and what good days will.fee when thefc ftoruis are,Ipaft...EDINBURGH:Printed and Sold in Rail Campbell’s dole, Cowgate*MDCCXCIX.iTHEProphecies of Mr Alexander Peden,SOMETIME before Argyle was broken and taken- hihe was near Wigtown in Galloway; a confiderablnumber of men were gathered together- in arms to go fphis Affiftance ; they preffed h'nn to preach ; but he politivcly refufed, fay'uig., be would only pray with them ; whenhe continued long, and fpent fome part of that time in pray?ng for Ireland, pleading, that the Lord would fpare a rein-nant, and not make a full end in the day of his anger, airWould put it into the hearts of his own, to flee over to th:bloody land, where they would find fafety for a time: aft«prayer they got fome meat, and he gave every one of hjold parUliioners, who were there, a piece out of his owhand, calling them his bairns; then be advilyl all to go nfurther ; but, faid he, for you that are my bairns, I dicharge you to go your foot length, for before you can tr;vel that length he will be broke: and though it were not f«God will honour neither him nor Monmouth to be inflrtments of a good turn to his church, they have dipt thehands fo far in the perfecution. And that fame day thiArgyle was taken, Mr George Barclay was preaching aijperfuading men in that country to go to Argyle’s aflilanre. After fermon, he faid to Mr George, now Argylisi n the enemy's hand and gone; though he was.many milldiftant. I had this account from fome of thefe his bairn■who were prel'ent; and the laft from Mr George Barclayfell’.After this he was to preach at night, at Bengaroein Garrick ; the millrefs of the houfe was too open mindito a Woman, who went and told the enemy, aud'eame ba<to the houfe that fhe might not be fiifpefted ; Mr Pedebeing in the fields, came in hade to the door, and called tlmiltrefs, and faid, ye have played a bonny fport to yourfettby being fo loofe tongued ; the enemy is informed that |was U) Of0? a word this night in this houfe, and the perftM■who has done it, is in .the houfe jull now ; you will repeit; to-morrow morning the enemy will be here : FareweI will day no longer in this place. To-morrow morni:both loot and horfe wert about the houie.\ 5 f •«40. In the fame year, within the bouiul? of Garrick,John Clark in Muirbrock* being with him, laid, Sir, v hatthink ye cff this prefcot time ? Is it not a dark melancholjrday ? And can there be a more di couraging time than this?He faid, yes John, this is, indeed, a dark difcouraging time ;but there will be a darker time thsm this; thefe filly, grace-left, wretched creatures the Curates, (hall go down, and af¬ter them (hall arife a party call ed Prcfbyteriaiis, but havinglittle more than the name; and thefe (hail, as really as Chrittwas crucified without the gates of Jerufalem on mount Cal¬vary, bodily. I fay, they (hall as really crucify Clirift in hiscaufe and intereft in Scotland, and (ball lay hii'Xin his grave,and his friends (hall give him his Winding (hect; and hefhall lye as one buried for a confiderable time. O 1 then,John, there will be darknefs, and dark days, fuch as thepoor church of Scotland never faw the like of them, nor thallfee, if once they were over ; yea, John, they (hall be fodark, that if a poor thing would go be-ween the cad fca*bank and the weft fea-bank, feeking a minifter to whomthey would commuuicnte their cafe, or tell them the mindof the Lord concerning the times, he fhould not find one.John alked, Where the teftimony (hould be then ? He au-t’wefed, in the hands of a few who (hall be defpifed and un¬dervalued by all,-but efpecially by tbefe minifUrs who buri¬ed Chrift ; but after that, he (hall get up upon them : Andat the crack of his Winding-fheet, as many of them ;t» arealive, who were at his burial, (hall be diffracted and mad forfear, not knowing what to do ; then John, there (hah bebtave days, fuch as the church of Scotland never iiw thelike ; but I fllall not fee them, but you may.In the fame year 1685, preaching in the night-time ina barn at Garrick, upon that text, Pfal. Ixviii 1.2. “ LetGod arife, and let his enemies be fcattered ; let them thathate him ftee before hhn. As fmoke is driven, fo drive thou| them,’, So infilling, how the enemies and haters of Cod'arid godlinefs, were tolled and driven as fmoke or chaff bythe wind of God’s vengeance, while on earth ; and . .atwind would blow them all to hell in the end. Stoopingflown, there being chaff among his feet he took a handful off it, and faid, the Duke of York and now king of Britain, aknown enemy of God and godlinefs, it was by the vergeanc eof God that he ever got that name; but as yc lee me throwTaway that chaff, fa the wind of that v«ngeance (hall blowand drive him off that throne; and he, nor no other of thatftiame, {hall ever come on it again.About ti-.is time, preaching in Garrick, in the parifhof Girvan, in thn-day-time in the fielijj, David Mafon, thena profefibr, came in hafle, trampling upon the people to benear him ; he faid, there comes the devil’s rattling bag, vvedo not want him here. After this, the faid Daj’id becamecfiicer in that bounds, and an informer, running through,,rattling his bag, and fummoning the people to their unhap-,py courts for their nOn comformity; for that he and his got !that name of the devil’s rattle bag, and to this day fo. Since’the revolution, he complained to his miniftcr, that he and",Ms-got that name: the mini her laid, ye well deferved it,!and he was an honeft man that gave it youj you and yours,mull enjoy it, theie is no help for it.A little before bis death, he was in Auchincloilhwhere he was born, in the houfe of John Richmau, therebeing two beds in one room, one for him. atid one Andrew—,who dwelt in and about the New-milns ; when Andrew of¬fered to go to his bed, he heard him very importunate withthe Lord to have pity upon the Weft of Scotland, aud fparc;a remnant, and not make a full end in the day of his anger;'.and when he Was off his knees, walking up and down the jchamber, crying out, Oh! the Monzies, the trench Mon-,zies, fee how they runf how long will they run ? Lord, cuttheir houghs, and flay their running. Thus he continued ;all night, fame times on his knees, and fame times walking.In the morning they enquired what he meant by the Mon¬zies ? He faid, O lire, ye wull have a dreadful day by theFrench Monzies, and a fet of wicked men in thefe lands,Who will take part with them ; the Weft of Scotland will !pay dear for it; they will run thicker in the water of Ayrand Clyde than ever the Higklandmen did. I lay in that 5chamber about three years ago, and the faid John Richmanand his Wife told me, that thefe were ids words. At other rtimes to the fame purpofe, faying, O ! the Monzies, the IMonzies, will be through the breadth and length of theSouth *and Weft of Scotland ! O ! I think 1 fee them at onr fit*fides, flaying man, Wife, and children ; The remsant willget a breathing; but they will be driven to the Wildernefc .again, and their fharpeft (bowers will be laft.To the fame pnrpofe fpoke the two following miniflec*,viz. Mr Thomas Lnudie, a godly mihifter in the Nortli ofRatray : his filler a lady in that country, who died in theyear 1683, gave the following account, that the faid'MrLundie, after fome ficknefs arid feeming recovery again,which comforted them : luit one morning, he lying longerthan ordinary in his chamber, the forefaid lady knocking athis chamber door, who opening it, found him more thanordinary weighed ; {he- alked him the reafon, feeing he wasnow better; whereupon, fmiling, he.faid, within a few£ours I will be taken from you; but, alas! fortheday thatI fee coming u}>on Scotland : The Lord has letten me feethe Frenches marching with their armies through the breadthand length of the land, marching to their bridle reins in theblood ol all ranks, and that for a broken, burnt, and buri¬ed covenant ? but neither ye nor I will live to fee it. x'lsalio one Mr Douglas, a-godly roinifter in Galloway, a littlebefore his death, Teeming as flusibering in his bed, his Wifeand other friends Handing by, when Tie awakened, he feem-ed more than ordinary weighted, and groaned heavily, fay¬ing, fad days for Scotland. His Wife alked him, what willbe the inftruments ? He faid, the fwords of foreign enemies ;they will be heavy and fharp, but not long ; but they willhot be yet, but not long to them ; but, O glorious days oilthe back of them to poor wafted Scotland !Some notes of bis lad preface in the Colom Wood, atdie Water of Ayr, a little before his death.My mailer is the rider, and I am the horfe, I never los*to ride but when I find the fpurs ; I know not what. I haveto do amorjgll you this night : I wifh it may be for *yourfood, for it will be the laft: It is long fince it was our delirco God, to have you taken off our hand ; and now he is[ranting us our dcllie. There are four or five things I havep tell you this night, and the firfl is this, a bloody fword,:rb]oody fword, a bloody livord, for thee, G Scotland, thatihall tear the hearts of many, adly, Many miles Ihall youtravel, arid Ihall fee nothing but defolaiions and ruinousivalies in thee, O Scotland. .3dly, The fertUeft places intcotland, (hall be as wafte and defolate- as the mountains,thly, dhe Women with child (hall be ript^jp and dallied{to pieces. 5thly) Many a Conventicle has God had in thee,,W Scotland; but ere long God will have a Conventicle thatiC fi )will wake Scotland to tremble ; many a preaching has Godwared upon thee ; but ere long God’s judgments (hall be as ‘frequent as thefe precious meetings were, Wherein lie fentforth his faithful fcrvsnts to give faithful warniug of the ha¬zard of thy apoftacy from God, in breaking, burning, andburying his covenant, perfecuting, flighting, and contemning 1the gofpel, fbedding the precious blood of his faints and fer-vants. God fent forth a Welwoed, a Kid, and a King, aCameron, and a Cargil, and others to preach to thee ; butere long God fliall preach to thee by fire and a bloody fword ;'God will let none of thefe men’s words fall to the ground,;that he fent forth with a commiffioti to preach thefe thingsin bis name: He will not let one fentence fall to the groundbut they {hall have a lure accomplilliment, to the fad eupe^rtence of many. In his prayer after fermon, he faid, Lord,thou had been both good and kind to old Sandy, through 4long traft of time, and given him many years in thy fervice,which has been but fo mapy months; but now hd is tiredof thy world, and hath done .the good in it that he will do|let him win away with the honefty he has, for he will gith^rno more.In his lad fermon, which, as I fold before, was in ti,«Colm Wood, where he faid, that in a few years after hisdeath, there would be a wonderful alteration of affairs iaBritain and Ireland, artd the perfecution in Scotland fhouldctafe, upon which every body fhould believe the deliverancewas come, and confequently would fall tatatly fecure; butI tell you, faid he, you will be all very far midaken ; fotboth England and Scotland will be fcourged by foreignersand a fet of unhappy men in thefe lands taking part witl;them, before any of you can pretend to bs happy, or get sthorough deliverance, which will be a more fevere challile.ment than any other they have met with, or can come ur.4der, if that were once over. |When the day of his death drew near, and not beindable to travel, he came to his brother’s houfe in’ the parifiof Sorn, where he was bom, he caufed dig a Gave, with iSaughen Bufh covering the mouth of It, near to his brother*houfe : the enemies got notice and fear died the houfe narrowly many times. In the time that he was in this Gave, hfaid to feme friends, ift, That God fhall make Scotlanddefolation. idly, There fecnld be-a remusut in the lanvvlioiii God (hou!d fjwire and hide. 3<ily> They fhould lie inholes and Caves of the earth, and b>/ fupp1ied with meat anddrink ; and when they come out of their holes, they Hullnot have freedom to walk for Humbling on dead corpfes.4tlily, A ftone cut out of the mountain ihould come downand God ihall be avenged on the great ones of the earth,and the inhabitants of the land for their wicked'refs ; andthen the church (hould come'forth with a bonny bairn timeat her back of young ones. He wifired that the Lord’s peo-i pie might lie hid in their Caves, as if they wee not in the| world, for nothing would do it, then God appeared with hisjudgments, and they that wan through the bitter and (harpfliort ftorm, by the ftorm of the Frenches, and a fet of un¬happy mea, taking part with them, then there would be afpriug-tide day of the plenty, purity and power of the gof-pel: giving them that for a fign, if he were but once buried,they might be in doubts; but if lie were oftener buried thanonce, they might be perfuaded that all h^ had faid wouldcome to pafs; and earneftly de.ired them to take his corpfeout to Airdfmols, and bury them betide Richy, meaning■Mr Cameron, that he might get reft in his grave, for he hadfotten little through his life; but I know ye will not do this,le tpld them, that bury him where they would, he wouldhe lifted again; but .be man tha put firll to his hand to lifthis corpfe tour things (hould befal him: i. He fhould gat agreat fall from a horfe. 2. He Ihould fall in adultery. 3. latheft, and for thefe he Ihould leave the land. 4. Make amelancholy end abroad for murder, which accordingly cameto pafs. There was one Murdoch, a mafon to his trade, outthen in the military fervice, who .firft put his hand (o iriscorpfe. A little-before his death, he laid, yer (hall be angrywhere 1 (ball be buried at (aft, but I difeharge you all to *’ftmy corpfe again. At laft one mipiniug early lie came to thedoor, and lett his Cave ; his brother’s Wife faid, where areyou,going ? the enemy will be here. He laid, I Know that.; Alas 1 fir, faid (he, what will become of you ? You mullback to the cave again: he faid I have done with that for itis bifcovered ; but there is no matter, for within 48 hours Iwill be beyond the reach of all the devil’s temptations, andhis inftruments in hell or on the earth, and they Ihall trou¬ble me no more. About three l.^urs alter he entered the[( 8 )Jibufe, tbs enemy came and found him not in the Cave* ',fearched the bai n narrowly, calling the u tbr^ihen corn, andfearched the honfe, dabbing the beds, but entered not into ;the place where be lay. He told them, that bmy him where-they would,, he ftidwM be |Uded again- and within 48 hours.:he di,cd. He died in January ;8, t6R6, being ptid 60 years, _and was buried in the laird nf AfflcdVs ifle. The eusmie*'got notice of his death and burial, and fcnt a troop of dra-••gaoris, and lifted bis corpfe and carried him to Cumnockflow's foot, and buried hirir there (after 4c days being in 1the grave) beEde other Martyrs. His friends thereafter laid ia grave-ftone above him, tvith this intCripiion : ,Here liesMr A L £ X A N-D F, R F £ D E N.A faithful Minider of the Gofpel, at GLENLUCE,who departed this Life, January 28, 1686,and was railed, , after fix Weeks, out of his Grave,f and buried here out of contempt.All the tyranny and cruelty of thefe times, by thefc ene-»“mies of God and godlincfs, that were exercifcd upon the bo. ;dies and confcitnces of the Lord’s people, was faid, that itwas all for rebellion : there was no ground.to think or fear-;that the corpfe of that fervant of Qu id, after fix weeks ly* Iing in the grave, would rife in rebellion againid them. This !is fomewhat like that which hidorians gave an account of,,that the Popifh party made fearch for the bones of John .■Wickliff, their oppofer in his life, by his writings, forty two jyears after his death they found Ins bones, but were uhcm>tain w-hether they were his or not, and took them up to the jhead of an hill, and burnt them, and gathered up the alhes ;in 3 pock, and threw them down a river. Mr Samuel Clarklives another indance of a Chridian Jew. in Italy, who af.iter the Fopid party had murdered him, laid his corpfe in!the open dreet of the city, prohibiting to bury him, where ibelay nine days, and indead of dink, they hadva fweet |ebarmmg~iinell. which induced many people to dand and;wondtr: which, when fbe enemies found the fweet fmeUtherolelvesf they cauled take then up and bury them,F 1 MIS.*