ATALEO FThree Bonnets.I NFOUR CANTOS.ic\; ^ tA*- <-X;-1 Ax JX -*-j:&4&&&GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,[NO. l8.3 SALTMARUtT,1807.Duniwhistlu,C Father to Joukura,l Brittle and Bawfy.Joukum, in love with Rofie.Bristle, a Man of Rtfbluticn.Bawsy, a weaker Brother,Bard, a Narrator.Beef, Porter to Rofie.Ghaist, the Ghqft of Duniwhittie.Rosie, an Heirefs,C 3 )Ataleo Fthree bonnets.CANTO h *bard.WHen men of mettle thought it non feme.,To heed that cleping thing ca’d confcience,And by free-thinking had the knack.Of jeering every word it fpake ;And, as a learned author fpeaks.Employ’d it as a pair o’ breeks,To hide their lewd and nafty fluices,Whilk eith flipt down for baith thefe ufes,Then Duniwhiftle, worn with years,And gawn the gate of his forbears,Commanded his three fons to comeAnd wait upon him in his room :Bade Bridle fteek the door : and fyne.He thus began—-Duniwhijile, Dear bairns of mine,I quickly maun fubmit to Fate,And leave you three a good ePate,V, hich4A Tale of Three Bcnnets. Canto I.Which has been honourably won,And handed down from fire to fon,But clag or claim for ages pall;Now that ye mayna prove the iaft,Here’s Three Permiffion Bonnets for ye,Which our Grand Gutcher purchas’d for ye,And if ye’d hae nae man betray ye.Let naething ever wile them frae ye :But keep the bonnets on your heads,And hands frae figning foolifh deeds.And ye fliall never want fic things,Shall »;ar you be made of by kings:But if ye ever with them part,Fou fair ye’ll for your folly fmart :Bare-headed then ye’ll look like fnools.And dwindle down to filly tools,Haud up your hands, now fwear and fay.As ye (hall anfwer on a day, Ye’ll faithfully obferve my will,And all its premiffes fulfil.Bri/lle. My worthy Father, I fhall ft-rive.To keep your name and fame alive,And never fhaw a faul that’s daftard.To gar fouk tak me for a baftard :If e’er by me ye're difobey’d.May witches nightly on me ride.Jovk. Whae’er fnali dare,by force or guile.This Bonnet aft’ my head to wile,For fic a bauld attempt lhall rue.And ken I was begot by you,Elfe, may I like a gyphe wander,Or for my daily bread turn paunder.§Canto I. A Tale of Three Bonnets.Bawfy. May I be jy’b’d by great and ima%And kytch’d like ony tennis ba%Be the difgrace of a’ my kin.If e’er I with my bonnet twin.Bard. Now foon as each had giv’n his aith,The auld man yielded up his breath,Was row’d in linen, white as fnaw,And to his fathers born awa’.But fcarcely he in mods was rotten,Before his Teft’ment was forgotten,As ye lhall hear frae future fonnet,How Joukum fmder’d wi’ his Bonnet,And bought frae fenl’elefs Billy. Bawfy,His to propine a giglet laify.While worthy Brittle, not fae doner’d,Pteferves his Bojmet, and is honour’d.Thus Cara&acus did behave,Tho’ by the fate of war a Have;liis body only,—•—for his mind,No Roman power could break or bind.With bonnet on he bauldly fpake,I His greatnefs gart his fetters crack.The vi&or did his friendfhip claim,i And fent him with new glories hame.But leave we Bid’s and fimile,. And to our tale with ardor flee.Beyond the hills where lang the billies,I Had bred up queys, and kids, and fillies,. And foughten mony a bloody battle,' With thieves that came to lift their cattle ;There liv’d a lafs kept rary-fhows,i And fidlers ay about her houfe.§Wha6 A Tale of Three Bonnets. Canto I."Wjha at her table fed and ranted,With the flout ale fhe never wanted.She was a winfome wench and waly,.\nd cou’d put on her claiths fu* brawly.Ramble to ilka market-town.And drink and fight like a dragoon:Juft fic-Hke her wha far aff wander’d,To get herfel wreel Alexander’d.Rofe had a wrord o’ meikie filler,Whilk brought a hantle o’ wooers till her.Amang the reft young Mailer Jouk,She conquer’d ae day wi’ a look :Frae that time forth he ne’er cou’d flayAt hame to mind his corn or hay.But grew a beau, and did adornHimfelf with fifty bows o’ corn,Forby what he took on, to riggHim out with linen, fhoon and wig.Snuff-boxes, fword-knots, canes and wafhes.And fweeties to beftow on laffes,Cou’d newefl aiths genteely fwear,And had a courfe of flaws perquire ;He drank, and danc’d, and figh’d to move.Fair Rofie to accept his love.After dumb figns he thus began.And fpake his mind to’er like a man.Joukum. O tak me, Rofie, to your arms.And let me revel o’er your charms jIf ye fay na, 1 needna care,For rapes or tethers made of hair.Fen-knives nor pools I winna need.That minute ye fay. na, I’m dead.O7Canto I. A Tale of Three Bonnets.O let me lie within your breafl:And at your dainty table feaft;Well do 1 like your gowd to finger.And fit to hear your Singer ;While on this fun-fhine o’ the brae,Belongs to you, my limbs I’ll lay.Rqfie. I own, fweet Sir, ye woo me frankly.But a’ your courtlhip fars fae ranklyOf felfilh int’reft, that I’m Heed,My perfon lead employ’s your head, (ing,Jouk. What a diftin&ion’s this you’re rtiak-When your poor lover’s heart is breaking jWi’ little logic I can fhew,That every thing you have is you :Befides the beauties of your perfon,Thefe beds of fiow’rs you fet your a— on.Your claiths, your land, your lying pelf.Are ev’ry ane your very felf.And add frefh luftre to thofe graces.With which adorn’d your faul and face is.Rofic. Ye feem to have a loving flameFor me, and hate your native hame,'I hat gars me ergh to trull you meikle.For fear you fliou’d prove faufe and fickle.Jonh. In troth my rugged billy Briflls,About bis gentry inaks fic fifile.That, if a body contradict him,He’s ready wi’ a ciurk to (tick him;That wearies me o’ hame, 1 vow.And fain wou’d live and die wi’ you.Bard. Obferving Jouk a wee rate tipfy,Smirking reply’d the pauky gipfy,‘ Rofw.8 A Tale of Three Bonnets. Canto I.Rofie. I wad be very wae to fee.My lover tak the pet and die;Wherefore I am inclin’d to eafe ye.And do what in me lies to pleafe ye :But firft, ere we conclude the paftion,Ye mud perform fome valiant action,To prove the truth of what you’ve faid,Elfe I, for you. fhall die a maid.Joukum. My deareft jewel, gie’t a name.That I may win baith you and fame :Shall I gae fight with foreft bulls ?Or cleave down troops with thicker Ikulls ?Or lhall I duck the deepeft fea,And coral pou for beads to thee ?Penty the Pope upon the nofe.Or p— upon a hundred beaus ?Rcfte. In troth, dear lad, I wad be laith.To rilk your life, or do you ikaith $Only employ your canny ikill,To gain and rive your Father’s Will,With the confent of Birfs and Bawfy,And I /hall in my bofom hawfe ye.Soon as the fatal Bonnets Three,Are ta’en frae them and gi’en to me.Jouk. Which to preferve I gied my aith !But now the caufe is life and death,I mufi:, or with the Bonnet part,Or twin with you and break my heart:Sae, tho’ the aith we took was awfu’.To keep it now appears unlawfu’.Then, love, I’ll anfwer your demands.And fly to fetch them to your hands.§ ' Bard*Canto 1L A Tale of Three Bonnets. oBard. The famous jilt of Paleftine,Thus drew the hooks o’er Samibn’s een.And gart him tell where lay his ftrengtVOf which (he twin’d him at the length.Then gied him up in chains to rave,And labour like a galley-fiave :But Kofie, mind, when growing hair.His lofs of pith ’gan to repair.He made of thoufands an example,By cruthing them beneath their temple.CANTO IT.BARD.THE fupper fowin-cogs and bannocks.Stood cooling on the foies o’ winnocks.And, cracking at the weftlin gavels,The wives fat becking o’ their navels.When Jouk his brither Brittle found.Fetching his ev’ning vvauk aroundA fcore of ploughmen of his ain.Who blythly whittled on the plain.Jouk three times congee’d. Brittle anes,Thus (hook his hand, and thus begins.Bristle. Wow, brither Jouk, whare hae yeI fcarce can trow my looking-een, (been ?Ye’re grown fae braw: now weirds defend me,Gin that 1 had nae maift milkend ye,And whare gat ye that braw blue ((ringing.That’s at your houghs and (boulders hinging?§ Yejo 4'Tale of Three Bonnett, Canto II.Ye look as fprufli as ane that’s wooing,1 ferly lad, what ye’ve been doing.Joukum. My very much refpecled brither,Shou’d we hide ought frae ane anither!And not, when warm’d by the fame blood,Confult ilk ane anither’s good ;And be it kend t’ye, my defign.Will profit prove to me and mine.Bris. And brither, troth it much commendsYour virtue, thus to love your friends,It maks me blyth, for aft I (aid.Ye were a clever mettl’d lad.Jonk. And fae, I hope, will ever prove,If ye befriend me in my love :For Rofie, bonny, rich, and gay.And fweet as flowers in June and May,Her gear I’ll get. her fweets I’ll rifleIf ye’ll but yield me up a trifle.Promife to do’t, and ye’fe be free,With ony thing pertains to me.Bri/He. I lang to anfwer your demand.And never final 1 for trifles ftand.Jcukum. Then fire defires as a propine,Thefe Bonnets, Bawfy’s, your’s and mine;And weel I wat that's nae great matter.If I fae eafily can get her.Brijik- Ha, ha! ye Judas, are ye there ?The D— then nor fire ne’er get mair.Is that the trifle that ye fpoke of?Wha think ve. Sir, ye mak a mock of ?Ye filly, manfworn, fcant o’ grace,Swith, kt me never fee your face.SeekCanto II. A Tale of Three Bonnets. 11Seek my auld Bonnet afF my head!Faith that’s a bonny ane indeed ?Require a thing I’ll part wi’ never ;She’s get as foon the lap o’ my liver.Vile whore and jvide, the woody hang her.Bard. Thus (aid,he faid nae mair for anger.But curs’d and ban’d, and was nae farFrae treading Jouk amang the glar."While Jouk. with language ghb as oolie.Right pawkily kept aff a toolie,Well malked with a wedder’s (kin.Although he was a tod within.He hum’d and ha’d, and with a cant,Held forth as he had bem a faint.And quoted texts to prove we’d better,Part with a fma’ thing for a greater.Jouk. Ah! Brither, may the furies rack me.If I mean’d ill, but ye miltak me jBut gin your Bonnet's lie a Jewel,Pray gie’t or keep it. Sir, as you wtH,Since your auld fafhion’d fancy rather,Inclines til t than a hat and feather jBut I’ll go try my Brither Bawfy,Poor man, he’s nae fae daft and fancy,With empty pride to crook his mou.And hinder his ain good like you $If he and I agree, ne er doubt ye,We’ll mak the bargin up without ye.Syne your braw Bonnet and your noddleWill hardly baith be worth a bodle.Bard. At this bauld Briftle’scolour chang’d.He fwore on Role to be reveng’d.For12 A Tale of Three Bonnets. Canto II.For he began now to be Heed,She'd wile the honours frae his head ;Syne with a ftern and canker’d look.He thus reprov’d his brither Jouk.Bristle. Thou vile difgraceof our forbears,Wha lang with valiant dint of weirS,Maintain’d their rights 'gainft a’ intrufionsOf our auld faes the Rofycrucians,Doft thou defign at laft to catchUs in a gin, with this bafe match,And for the hauding up thy pride.Upon thy brithers’ riggins ride :I’ll fee you bang’d, and her the gither,As high as Hainan in a tether,Ere I with my ain Bonnet quat,For ony borrow’d beaver hat.Whilk I, as Rofie takes the fikes,Maun wear or no juft as fhe likes:Then let me hear nae mair about her.For if ye dare again to mutter,Sic vile propofals, in my hearing,Ye need na truft to my forbearing ;For foon my beard will tak a low,And I mail crack yOur crazy pow\.Bard. This faid.braveBriftle faid nae mair.But cock’d his Bonnet with an air.Wheel’d round with gloomy brows & muddy.And Jeft his brither in a ftudy.§CANTOCanto III. A Tale of Three Bonnets. 13CANTO III.BARD.NOW Sol wi’ his lang whip gae cracks,Upon his nighcring coolers’ backs,To gar them tak the Olympian Brae,Wi’ a cart lade of bleezing day :The country hind ceafes to fnore,Bangs frae his bed, unlocks the door.His bladder tooms, and gies a rift,Then tentily furveys the lift,And, weary of his wife and flaesTo their embrace prefers his claes.Scarce had the lark forfook her neft.Whan Jouk, wha had got little reft.For thinking on his plot and laffie.Got up to gang and deal wi’ Bawfy :Awa’ fall o’er the bent he gade.And fand him dozing in his bed.His blankets creifhy, foul his fark.His curtains trim’d wi’ fpider’s wark;Soot-draps hang frae his roof and kipples.His floor was a’ tobacco fpittles :Yet on the antlets of a deer,Hang mony an auld claymore and fpear,With coar of iron and target trufty,Inch thick of dirt and unco rufty :Enough appear’d to (hew his Billy,That he was lazv, poor and filly.And wadna mak fae great a buftle,About his Bonnet as did Briftle.Jouk14. A Tale of Three Bon)iets. Canto IH.Jouk three times rugged at his fhoulder,Cry’d three times laigh, and three times loud-At langrun, Bawfy rak’d his een, (er ;And cries. What’s that! What do you mean!Then looking up he fees his brither.Baw. Good-morrow Jouk, what brings you !You’re early up,—*as I’m a finner, (hither.I feenly rife before my dinner :We’ll, what’s your news, and how gaes a’!Ye’ve been an unco while awa\Jouk. Bawfy, I’m blyth to fee you well,For me, thank God, I keep me heal:Get up, get up, ye lazy mart,1 have a fecret to impart,Of which, when I give you an inkling.It will fet baith your lugs a tinkling.Bard. Straight Bawfy rifes, quickly drefles.While hafte his youkie mind imprelfes :Now rigg’d, and morning drink brought in,Thus did flee gabbet Jouk begin.Joukum. My worthy Brither, weel I wat,O’er fecklefs is your wee eftate,For lie a meikte faul as yours,That to things greater higher towers;But ye ly loitering here at hame,Negle&fu* baith of wealth and fame.Though, as I faid, ye have a mind.That is for higher things defign’d.Baw. That’s very true, thanks to the Ikies,But how to get them there it lies.Jouk. I’ll tell ye Baws,—I’ve laid a plot.That only wants your calling vote,AndCanto III. A Tale of Three Bonnets. f 5And if you’ll gie’t, your bread is baken;But firfl accept of this love-taken ;Here tak this gowd and never wantEnough to gar you drink and rant;And this is but an arle-penny.To what I afterward defign ye ;And in return I’m fnre that IShall naething feek that ye’ll deny.Bawfy. And troth now Jouk, and neitherOr after never ca’ me Billy j (will I,If I refufe, wae light upon me.This gowd, O vow! ’tis wonder bonny.Juukum. Ay, that it is——’tis e'en the a’That gars the plough of living draw,*Tis gowd gars fogers fight the fiercer.Without it preaching wad be fcarcer ;*Tis gowd that imks the great men witty,And puggy laffes fair and pretty :Without it ladies nice wad dwindle,Down to a wife that fnooves the fpindle.But to the Point, and wave Digreflion,I mak a free and plain confelli an,That I’m in love, and as I faid,Demand from you a little aid,To gain a bride that eithly cabMak me fou bleft, and you a man:Gi'e me your Bonner to prefentMy miftrefs with,—and your confent,To rive the daft autd fafhion’d DeedThat bids ye wear it on your head.Bawfy. O gofh! O gofh! then Jouk ha’e atIf that be a* 'ds nae great matter. (her,Jouhum.16 A Tak of Three Bonnets. Canto III.jouk. Thefe granted,fhedemands naemairTo let us in her riches (kair ;Nor ftiall our herds, as heretofore,Rin afF wi* ane anither’s (tore,Nor ding out ane anithers hams,Whan they forgather 'mang the kairns ;But freelv may drive up and down,And fell in ilka market-townBelangs to her,—which foon ye*ll fee.If ye’ll be wife, belang to me :And, whan that happy day (hall come,My honeft Bawfy, there’s my thumb.That while I breathe I’ll ne er beguile ye,Ye'fe baith get gowd, and be a bailey.Bawfy. Faith Jouk, 1 fee but little (kaith.In breaking of a fenfelefs aith.That is impos’d by doited dads,(To pleafe their whims) on thoughtlefs lads.My Bonnet! welcome to my Bonnet!And meikle good may ye mak on it.Our Father’s Will I’fe mak nae din,Though Rofie (liouid apply’t behin :But fay, Does Billy Bridle ken,This your defign to mak us men ?youkum. Ay that he does, but the (HiF afsBears a heart-hatred to the lafs.And rattles out a hantla (lories.Of blood, and dirt, and ancient glories,Meaning foul feuds that us’d to be,Between ours and her family ;Bans like a blockhead, that he’ll ne’erTwin wi* his Bonnet for a’er Gear j§But| Canto IV. A Tale of Three Bonnets. 17i But you and I conjoin'd can ding him,^ And, by a vote, to reafon bring him ;| If fhe Hand dole, *tis unco eitb,] To rive the Teft’ment fpite o's teeth.And gar him ply, for a* his clavers,1 To lift his Bonnet to our Beavers, (ging,Baw/'y. Then let the doof delight in drud-: What caufe ha’e we to tent his grudging;| 1'hough Rofie’s flocks feed on the Fells,! If you and 1 be weel out-fells.Bard. Thus jouk and Bawfy were agreed.And Brifs maun yield, it was decreed.Thus far I’ve fung in Highland {trains,Of Jouk’s amours and pawky pains.To gain his ends wi’ ilka brither,Sae oppofite to ane anither j.Of Briitle’s hardy refolutions.And hatred to the Rolycrucians:Of Bawfy put in flavery neck-laft,Selling his Bonnet for a breakfalt.What follows on’t, of gain or fkaith,1’fe tell when we ha’e ta’en our breath.CANTO IV.BARD.NOW foon as e’er the WitL was tom,Jouk wi’ twa Bonnets, on the morn,Frae Fairyland faft bang’d away.The prize at Rohe’s feet to lay ;Wha lleely^ when he did appear,About his fuccefs ’gan to fpeer.§18 A Tale cf Three Bonnets. Canto IV.Jottk. Here, benny lafs, your humble Have,Prefents you with the things you crave,The riven Will and Bonnets twa,Which maks the third worth nought ava.Our power giv’n up, now 1 demandYour premis’d love, and eke your hand.Bard. Role fmil’d to fee the lad outwitted.And bonnets to the fiames committed ;immediately an awfu’ found,As ane wad thought, raife frae the ground:And fyne appear’d a ftalwart Ghaift,Whafe ftern and angry looks amaiftUnhooi’d their fauls, ihaking they fawHim frae the fire the Bonnets draw ;Then came to jouk, and wi’ twa drugs,Encreas’d the length of baith his lugs.And faid, Ghai/l.  Be a’ thy days an afs,And hackney to this cunning Lafs :But for thefe Bonnets I’ll pfeferve them.For bairns unborn that will deferve them.Bard. With that he vanifh’d frae their een.And left poor Jouk wi’ breeks not clean.He fhakes, while Rofie rants and capers.And ca's the vifion nought but vapeurs:Rubs o’er his cheeks and gab wi' ream,Till he believes’t to be a dream :Syne to the clofet leads the way.To foup him up with ufquebae.Rojle. Now, bonny lad, ye may be free.To handle ought pertains to me jAnd ere the tun, though he be dry,Has driven down the weftlin iky.ToCanto IV. A Tale of Three Bonnets. 19To drink his wamefu* o’ the fea,There’s be but ane of you and me.In marriage ye fhail hae my hand ;But l maun hae the foie command,In Fairyland to faw and plant.And to fend there for ought I want.Bard. Ay, ay, cries Jouk, all in a fire.And ftiff’ning into ftrong dtfire.Joitk. Come, hafle thee, let us fign and feal,[And let my Billies gae to the * .Bard. Here it would mak o'er lang a tale.To tell how tneikle cakes and ale.And beef, and broe, and gryce, and geefe.And pies, n’ running o'er wi’ creefb,Was ferv’d upon the wedding-table.To mak the lads and lafl’es able,To do, ye ktn, what we think lhame,(1 ho’ ilk ane does t) to gie’t a name.But true it is, they foon were buckled.And foon fhe made poor Jouk a cuckold,1And play’d her baudy fports before him.With chiels that car’dr.a tippence for him,Befides a Roly crucian trick,She had a dealing wi’ auld nick ;And, whene’er Jouk began to grumble,Auld Nick in the neift room would rumble,She drank, and fought, and fpent her gear,Wi’ dice, and felling o’ the mare.Thus living like a Beizi’s get,She ran her fell fae deep in debt,By borrowing money at a’ hands,1 hat yearly income ol her lands.Scarce paid the int’reft of her bands.2o A lale if Three Bonnets. Canto IV. ,Jouk, ay ca’d wife behind the hand.The darang of his doings fand -7O’er late he now began to fee.The ruin of his family ;But .paft relief, lair’d in a midden,He’s now oblig’d to do her biddin’.Aiva’ wi’ ftrict command he's feat.To Fairyland to lift the rent.And with him mony a catterpiller,To rug frae Brifs and Bawfy filler ;For her braid table maun be ferv’d.Though Fairy-fowk fhould a! be itarv'd.Jouk thus furrounded with his guards.Mow plunder hay-ftacks, barns, and yards.They drive the now't frae BriRle’s fauid,"While he can nought but ban and feald.Briftle. Vile Have to a hifiey ill begotten,By mony dads, with clap ha’f-rotten,We'rt na for honour of my Mither,I fhou’d na, think ye were my Brither.'Jouk. Dear Brither, why this rude reflec-Learn to be gratefu’ for proteclion j (tion?T he Petereneans, bloody beafts,That gars fowka lick the dowps of priefts,Fife on a brander, like a haddock,Be broiled, iprawling like a paddock,Thefe menders lang e er now had come,"With faggots, taz, and tuck o’ drum, „And twin'd you of your wealth and lives.Syne, without fpeering,———your wives,Had not the Roiycrucians ftood,The bulwark of your lights and blood;§ AndCanto IV. A Tale of Three Bonnets. 21And yet forfooth, ye girn and grumble.And with a gab unthankfu’ mumbleOut mony a black unworthy curfe,When Rohe bids you draw your purfe jWhen (he’s fae gen'roufly content,With not aboon thirty per cent.Bri/ile. Damn you and her! tho* now I’mI’m hopefu’ yet to fee the day, (blae.I’ll gar you baith repent that e’erYe reav’d by force awa* my gear.Without, or thanks, or making price.Or ever fpeering my advice.Jouk. Peace Gouk, we naething do at a’*But by the letter of the law.Then nae mair wi' your din torment us,Growling like ane non compos mentis^Elfe Rohe iffue may a writ.To tye ye up baith hand and fit,And dungeon ye, but meat or drink,Till ye be ftarv’d and die in (link.Bard. Thus Jouk and Bridle, when theyWith fic braw language ither treat, (met,juft fury glows in Bridle’s veins:And though his Bonnet he retains.Yet on his creft he may not cock it,But in a coffer dole maun lock it.Bare-headed, thus he e’en knocks under,And let’s them drive away the plunder,Sae hae I feen befide a tower,The King o’ brutes oblig’d to cour ;And, on his royal paunches thole,A dwarf to prob him with a pole !§ While42 A Tale cf ’Three Bonnets. Canto IV.,While he wad Ihaw his fangs and rage,With bootlefs hr angling in his cage.Now follows that we tak a peep.At Bawfy, looking like a fneep ;By Briftie hated and defpis’d.By Jouk and Rofe as little priz’d.Soon as the Horfe had heard his Brither,Jouk and Rofe were prick’d the gither,Awa' he fcour’s, o’er height and how,Fou fidging fain, whate’er he dow.Counting what things he now did miller.That wad be gi’en kim by his filler.Like lhallow Bards wha think they flee,Becaufe they live fax llories high.To fome poor lifelefs lucubration.Prefix a fleeching medication,And blythly dream they’ll be reflor’cl.To ale-houfe credit by my Lord.Thus Bawfy’s mind in plenty row’d.While he thought on his promis’d gowd,And Baileylhip, which he with fines.Wad mak like the Well-Indian mines.Arrives, with future greatnefs dizzy,Ca’s, Whare’s Mell Jouk ?Beef. Melt Jouk is bify.Bawfy. My Lady Rofie, is fhe at leifure?Beef. No, Sir, my Lady’s at her pleafure.Bawfy. I wait for her, or, him, go Ihew.—Beef. And pray ye. Mailer, wha are you ?Bawfy. Upo’ my faul, this porter’s fawfy.Sirrah, Go tell my name is Bawfy,Their Brither who made up the marriage.Beef And fo 1 thought it by your carriage.Canto IV. A Tale of Three Bonnets. 23Between your houghs gae clap your gelding,Swith hame, and feaft upon a fpeiding ;For there’s nae room beneath this roof.To entertain a fimple coof.The like o’ you, that nane can truft,Wha to your ain hae been unjulLBard. This faid, he dadded to the yate.And left poor Bawfy in a fret,Wha loudly gowl’d and made a din.That was o’erheard by a’ withinQuoth Rofe to Jouk, come let’s away.And fee what’s yon maks a’ this fray.Away they went, and faw the creature,Sair runkling ilka filly feature,Of his dvdl phiz, with girns and glooms,Stamping and bitting at his thumbs.They tented him a little while,Then came full on him with a fmile.Which foon gart him forget the torture.Was rais’d yithin hirn by the porter.Sae will a fucking weanie yell.But (hake a rattle or a bell.It bauds its tongue—Let that alane.It to its yamering fa’s again:Lilt up a fang, and ftraight it’s fcen.To laugh with tears into its een.Thus eithly anger’d, eithiy pleas’d.Weak Bawfy hang they tantaliz’d,When promifes right wide extended,They ne’er perform’d, nor ne’er intended :But now and then, when they did need him,A fupper and a pint they gied him!That24 si Tale of Three Bonnets. Canto IV.That done, they hue na« mair to fay,And fcarcely ken him the neift day.Poor fallow, now this mony a year,Wi’ fome faint hope, and routh o’ fear.He has been wreftling wi’ his fate,A drudge to Joukum and his mate;While Briftle faves his manty look,Regardlefs baith of Rofe and Jouk;Maintains right quietly ’yond the earns.His honour, confcience, wife and bairns ;Jouk and his rumlegary wife,Drive on a drunken gaming life,’Caufe fober they can get nae reft,For Nick and Duniwhistle’s Ghaist,Wha in the garrets often tooly,And {bore them with a bloody gully.Thus I have fung in hamlet rhyme,A fang that fcorns the teeth of time.Yet modeftly I hide my name.Admiring virtue mair than fame.But tent ye wha ddpife inftru&ion.And gi’e my wark a wrang conftruftion,Frae ’hind my curtain, mind l tell ye,Pil (hoot a fatire thro’ your belly :But wha wi’ havins jees his Bonnet,And fays. Thanks t’ye for your Sonnet,Ye fhanna want the praifeG dueTo generofity. Adieu.FINIS.GLASGOW,PRINTED BYJ.&M. ROBERTSON, No. 18. Saltmarkit,1807.