THEADVENTURESO FJack Okham & Tom SplicewellTwo S \ I LORS who went a Piratingon the KING’S Highway.How that Tom Splicewell was taken*and condemned to oe hanged.How his Meffmate Jack, applied to theKING, and got him pardoned.With a Copy of Jack’s Polhe Letter,to His MAJESTY.Stirling,—Printed by C. RANDALL, i- ^The Adventures of fuck Okbeim and Toni Splice well.AT the conclufionof the war Jack Ojcham andTom Splicewell two fiilors, who had beenfome time on ihore, and had fpent the produce oftheir laft voyage ; after a finall time, their Wap-ping Landlady, who was called Mother Double-Chalk, began not only to look coldly upon them ;but alfo according to cuftom, when their moneywas gone, to behave roughly towards them ; andthey not being entered again in any fervice, be¬gan to f;heme how they Ihould raife a little mo¬ney for their prefent ufe ; and, after feveral pro-pofals made between them that hill met with lomeobje&ions, one of them at length faid,—Zoons !melfmate. what think you of a trip or two for aventure, o’privateering about thefe coafls a little ?In my mind, we might pick up a prize or two,without firing a Ihot. Ay, replied the other, butfuppofe we Ihould be taken ; will not a court-mar¬tial hang us for pirates ? Zoons ! faid the other,we mult take what care we can not to be taken ;and be fure to cruife out of this latitude, left weIhould be known by our ilgging. And if wefhould chance to be chaced, why, we mult crowd■all the fail that we can, and be fure never to lirikeas long as we can fwim above water.To be brief, after fome little debate, they re-folved upon a venture ;, and out they fet, with noother weapons of offence, or defence than a cou¬ple of great broomfticks. When they were gotinto the fields, a little way from town, one ol themfeeing a gentlemen coming towards them, prettywell dreffed, fays to the other, Damn me, Jack !this is a ]5rize worth boarding ; ftiall we bring himto ?—He feems well rigged and loaded. So he4»es? replied the other j and with that they bothmade ready for the attack. When the gentlemancame up to them, they both brandifhed iheir wea¬pons : and he who was commodore, fainted himas follows: Damn my blood, my boy, but wemull have forne money w ith you 1 or elfe by G-d,you mult have a broadfide !—The gentleman,finding by their arms, manner, and language, thatthey were but young in their buhnefs, anfwtrcd: them thus: Well, gentlemen, as you feem to bej faiiors, and good hearty cocks, do not ufe me ill,j and you fhall be welcome to what money I haveij about me, with all my heart, w'as it ten times asn much. With that he prt f nted them with aboutI, three (hillings and Cxpence. Here, gentlemen,ji laid he, is ail the money l have at prelent, and IIvvilh it were more for your lakes i’he fadorsC feeing the gentleman io good natured. feemed■quite fatisfied ; took the money, told him it waslenough, and wilhed him a good voyage. But they! had not gone far with their booty, before theypvere puriued ; for the gentleman telling the ad-iventure juft after, to Jo me people that he met,Jthe pofle w as foon raifed ; and in lels than half|an hour, one of them was taken ; the other byfome means or other, made his efcape.j I he next feflxons, at the Old Bailey, my youngicommodore w^as convifted of fellony, and fenten-bed to be hanged ; tho5 the fimplicity of his pro¬ceeding made many people be lorry for him.After this misfortune, his fellow adventurerjvas in great perplexity', tho’ he had efcaped him-s elf; for no body had yet enquired or fought af-x'Mer him about it. But Jack refolved to Jpare no-pairs ; and if poflible, to Ipare his poor metTmate’sife. And being one day at the rendezvous, talk,ig about it, with another of their old Ihipmates,, ( 4 )after feAeral methods had been propofed betweenthem, and all fell to the ground : Jack boldlycrie .— ’Sblood, Tom! I have a good mind towrite a letter lor him to the King myfelf. I amtold, no body elfe can pardon him \ and I fancythat would be the moft likely way to do the bu«finds ; only I cannot tell who to get to carry it,and deliver it t« him. Zoons! cries the other, Ilike your fcheme, Jack i and if you can write it,I will go along with you, and we wiil carry it tohim ourielves, and then we uilKbe lure that hewill nave it, for 1 never faw the King in my life,Her 1 neither, replies the other, and, by C — d,Tom if you will go w uh me to him, I will writea letter immediately ; the other confenting. Jackcalled immediately for a pen ink, and p iper ; butas he was going to begin his polite epiltie, agreat blotch of ink dropped Irom his pen, uponthe top of his paper. Jack never called for anymore ; but wiping it wuth his linger along theiheet, he began, and wrote as fallows:An pleafe your KingjhpTHIS is to let ytu r.o that’my mejfrr.ate Tom Splice-ivell, is comh mu d t bt harp A; fir you mujl no, thathe ‘ivas fiohjh etiufi to j-t out a privateering ’withoutapplying to the adnumhty for leave ; and the firjl priz,he took, gave feme inttlLgtnce oj his courfe ; fo that h>•was chafed by a hole fquadron, and fion after taken andCarried into port However, he's a very onefl fellow, I affun you and by (7—d, as good a feaman as ever fiept between Jit m ana f rn He Jhall not and fplice, recj anc.handle a fail, jieer and rig a ftp, with eer a man in tinnavee and that's a bould word And if yoide be fo hintas to order his dfcharge I dare fwear, heel never be guilty of fuch a nother cryme, as long as he lives, which wilaf very much oblyge, _ Your bumble fervantFrom the Jhip Alehoufe Wapping.Wiir.fs, Tom, Fhplove, Shipmate. Jack OkhawWhen Jack had finifhed the above letter, andthe other had fet his hand to it, as a proof of hisapprobation, and the truth of its contents, theyiealed it up, and dire&ed it as follows :THIS FOR THE KING WITH SPEEB.As foon as this was done, without further de¬lay, out they fet, to deliver their letter as directed ;and all the way they went, they enquired wherethe King lived. At laft, when they came into theStrand, near Charing-Crofs, a gentlemen, whowas juft come from St James’s, hearing them en¬quire earneftly after the King, and feeing theywere failors, ftept up to them, and demandedthus: Hark ye, my lads, what do ye want withthe King pray ? have you an exprefs ! No ! an-fwers one of them, we have no exprefs, nor donot know what you mean ! but we have got a let¬ter for him, and want to deliver it to him, if wecan. What! replies the gentleman, to the Kinghimfdf? King himfeif ! ay, to the King himfelf jcried the tailor, fuppofe it was to the Lord HighAdmiral; What cf that? Why, my bd, repliedthe gentleman, if it be a thing of confequence,you may very eafily fee the King, ior he is nowwalking in the '.v'all; 1 faw him there within thefeten minutes myfelf.—What, Sir, demands Jack,is he walking there alone ? No, replies the gen¬tleman, there are a great many of the nobility andgentry along with him. How may a body knowthen, cries Jack, which is he ? Why, fays the gen¬tleman again, the King is a very well lookingman, and you may know him by a ftar on his leftbreaft, and a blue ribbon hanging from his neck,By this time, a great number of people weregathered about the failors; and hearing what hadpaffed betwixt them and th? gentleman, as above.( 6 )after the failors had thanked him, they proceed¬ed ; and the mob refolved to bear them companyin their embafly. So, that b) the time they weregot to the Park their attendants were increafedto feveral hundreds But juft as they came to theend of the Mall they happened to meet a noble¬man, who in forne mtafure anfwered the defcrip-tion which the gentleman had given of the King,being a Knight ot the garter, with his ftar andribbon. Jack no fooner faw him, but he roaredout to his companion, by G—d, L'om here is theKing ! now for it ! So after feeling for the letter,he ftepped up to the nobleman, and fainted himthus: Your humble fervant, Sir $ pray, are youthe King ? No, friend, replied his lordfhip, Iam not indeed Pray, why do you afk me thatqueftion r Nay, Sir, returned the Sailor, I begyour pardon ? hope no offence ! but I was toldjuft by a gentleman that faw the King within thishalf hour, that he is rigged in much the fametrim as you are ; fo that l did not know but youmight be him Have you any difpatches for hisMajefty, demands the nobleman, that you are infuch queft of him ? ’Spatehes ! yes. Sir, quothjack. 1 have ; I have a letter for him ; and mu ftdeliver it into his own hand, if l can find him.—The nobleman imagining that there muff befomething more than common in this rencoun¬ter, told them, that if they pleafed, he would goback with them, and not only ihew them theKing, but would alio introduce them to hun. U-pon which, the Jailor thanked him for his good¬will, and away they went together. When theycame to about the middle ot the Mall, they metwith his Majtfty ; and the nobleman going up tohim, in a low voice acquainted him with what had( 7 > <pafle J between him and the failors; and pointingto them, defired his Majefty would pleafe to per¬mit them to deliver their letter to him By allmeans, my Lord, replied the King. With thathe beckoned the faiiors to approach Here, mylads, faid his Lordfhip, this is his Majefty, ifyou have any letter for him, you may deliver it.Here Jack advanced with his hand to his hat,but without pulling it off, and having come pret¬ty near the King, laid to him, Pray, Sir, are youthe King? Yes, Sir, anfwered his Majefty fmil-ing, I believe fo. Then, Sir, fays Jack, there isa letter for you, ant pleafe you. I'he King look¬ing hard at the fellow, could not help fmiling athis blunt, uncourtly addrefs: but he took theletter from him, and looking upon the fuperfcrip-tion, fell a laughing and (hewed it all around tothe nobles that attended him.Jack feeing the King look fo pleafantly, faysto his (hipmate, by G—d, Tom, I believe it willdo ; the King feems to be in very good humour.And when his Majefty had read the letter, hedelivered it to the nobleman who introduced the1 lailor to him. Look here, my Lord, fays he,| read that letter, and learn a new direction. Up-1 on my honour, this fellow has no deceit in him ;I dare fay it is his own hand-writing, and hisj own dilating too. However, this I may fay toS l*;s credit, that his fli'e and behaviour are bothI honeft towards me ; for, he has not troubled mea with compliments on the one, or ceremonies onlithe other So turning to the failors, he fays tojhim who gave him the letter, Friend, as this b|his firft offence, upon the account of your kind|efter here) you may let your friend know that Ih.vill pardon him this time, but Ui him take care( 8 \that he never tranfgrefs fo again. Ant pleafe you,Sir, quoth Jask, I dare iwear he never will ;and if you will take care that he fhall not behanged this time, ( am lure Tom’s a very honestfeliow, and will be very thankful to you. We!!,faid his Majefly, you may allure yourfclf. thathe fhall not die for this crime ; and you may lethim know that I will fave his life for the fake ofyour letter here. Ay, Sir, faid the faiior, buthow can a body be fure that you will not forgetit ? Why, replied the King you may take myword for it, I will not forget it. Claufe, if youIhould, quoth Jack, perhaps they may hanghim, and you never be the wafer. But if oncewe Ihould get him a Ihipboard with us, bv rheblood! but you mult then alk the captain fir If,or a thoufand of you could not hang him. vV'hythen, replied the King if you will take care, andget him a Ihipboard, as foon as he is fet at liber¬ty, I will take care he lliall be difcharged in avery few days. Sir, replied the faiior, I returnyour Kingfhip a great many thanks; and 1 amfure, poor i'om will be ready to hang himfelffor joy, that he is to go on board again : Andby the mefs ! there is no good to be got fta-vingfo long on Ihore. Then he made the King a lowbow, hitched up his trowfers, tacked himfelf a-bout, and fleered off in triumph, that his politeletter had faved his meffmate’s life.And the ftory fays, that the King and his at¬tendants wejfp no lefs delighted with the poorfailor’s embaffy, than they were with the fuccefsjof it.FINIS.