T U EHiftory of Dreams.O RDreams Inrerprcted, &:<:•CONTAINING,Advics to al‘ Bachelor*.Maid*, Widowers, Wi-dour*. See.II. A true Interpretationof Dreamt,III. The birth of Childrenon every day of the weel;,IV. JL divifion of snan’t ageby twelve timtt fix year*V. Whether the party maylive or die that fallethfickon any day ef the nonth.VL To krow if a womanbe with child ; and whe.ther male or female.VII. An excellent way forahyperfonto knaw in themoraiog when they golarornet.forth, whether they (hdllhave good or bad luck.VIII. Toraakenaan orwo-man put of their clothesIX. A rectipt to make amaid’s face fair.X. A ready way how tocure the felon.XI. How to heal one thatisfcaided with liqnar.XII. The fignification of(noire oa any part of thebody of maa or women.XIII. Ex«a rule* to knowwhether a man or womsa(lull have thofe they loveXIV. HoW to ckoof: agood hufbaad or wife.XV. Rule and art to knowwhether a woman be apure virgin or net.XVI. To know whethera maa be a chalk bache-XVII. To make any per-fon love you whetherthe will or not.XVIII. How to reflore aloft maiden head, or to afolder a cracked one.By JOHN BOOKER, AsTaotocEn.EDINBURGH,-.Printed by J Morri.n, Cainpbtl's Ciofe Covtgnte.( * )THEHISTORY OF DREAMS, Vc.I. Advice to all Bachelqrs, Maids, Wi¬dowers, Widows, l$c.LOVE is a mixture of pleafure andpain, hopes and fears, &c yet it iscoveted and purlued by all; andthough the female fex feem coy, andHand at a sdifiance protefting manytimes againft love, and that theywill never marry ; this is all purediflimulation, for take my word on’tthey are more defirous than men as,their pleafure in the enjoyment of amarriage bed exceeds their’s : There¬fore in making love, never minddenials, for their "hearts feidom gowith their tongues; they are ofteneager for what they feem to flightand refufe ; and they would-not haveyou believe them when .they denyyou, for as the fong goes.Pretty shame fac'd Phillis,to hide her fled the green,But when among the willows,she peep'd out to be feen, See,But in this cafe ther is a methodto be obferved in courtfliip; andfirfl to raaidi who have not poflefs’dtheir firft bluihes, your firft addrefsmuft bewithgenteelnefs andmodefty,left you fright them with an opinionyou are rude and uncivil of behavi¬our, and rather aim at debauchingthem than at marriage, but maids inyears are lefs fearful, and you muftbe brifk with them, or they willtake yon for a drone without aWidows, efpecially the young ones,aregamefome and buxom, for havingonce fmelt to the fpit, they alwayslove a good joint: thole you muftentertain with merry dilcourfe, andlay afide whining or folemn protefta-tioni, kifs them till their ears crack,and when youfind a convenient timeand place, warm them with carefies,fqueezing their hand, gently treadingon their toes and when you kifs, bearclofe to them and you will foon per¬ceive by their eager looks, blulhingand often changing of colour, thatnow is the time to alk a favour, towhich you’ll have a faint denial, ifany at all, and then make ufe< ofyour time and preis forward withoutdelays for they are dangerous, andmany adlur opportunity hasflipt thatcould not be recovered, though ear-neftly purfued.As for maids or widows, if you likea brifk man and are balhful, you mayufe dumb figns which is called love‘sfilent language ; gaze on his face ,;then when he perceives it, fuddenlyt*ke off your eyes, and turn yourhead afide, blulh naturally, forcingly,hold your breath : ftart a little whenfirfl you fee him at any time, as ifyou were lurprifed. If he takes youby the hand grafp his with a littletrembling, and feem to withdrawyour hand again, as uneafy ;,if hekifles you, flay your lips on his awhilewith fome advance and he muff bevery dull that will not take thefe forthe figns of tender love.II. A true interpretation of Dreams.Of the bead.TO dream you have a great headis good, for it foretelleth principalityand dignity.( 5 rOf the Forehead.The forehead found and flefty, isgood to all, dignifies liberty'of fpeech,ftrengthand coriftancy *, But to dreamyou have a head of brafs, iron, ordone, to all takers of ventures, andfueh as live by fhamekfsgain, isgood.and to thofe cn)y, for to others it moftcertainly breeds hate,Of the hair.To have many hairs is good to himthat \rould have any one obedient tohim, wife, children, and fervants;To the rich, it fignifies great return,of his goods, it the hairs be wellfhapen* but if deformed, to his ill.This dream is ill to fervants, orthofe that have fuits in law.Of the bvw.The brows hairy, .and of a goodgrace, are good to all. but efpeciallyto woman ; but the brows naked andbare, fignify to ailillfucceisofbufinefs'Vo dream of the eyes.To have a fharp fight is generallygood ; but a troubled lock fignifieswant of money. He that hath chil¬dren, it foretells that they fhaTl be( 6 J ,fick ; and to be blind of both eyes isiofs of children, brethren, father ormother.To dream of the Nofc.For to have a fair red great nofe isgood to all, for it %nifies fubtilties infenfe, providence in affairs and ac¬quaintance with great perfons ; but tohaveno nole, llgmiieth the contrary ;and to the lick, death, For to havetwo iiofes, is difcord with his kindred.Oj tbe Neck.For to have the head turned ^fothat it loksbackwards, forewarns oneto go out of his own country, and to• cnterprife no affair, left the iftue bebad. and they who are in a far coun¬try ihall return home.Of Homs.For to dream you have ox hornson, or any fuch wonderful beaft’s.foretells an unnatural death, andchiefly beheadingOf the Members.Firft, the members flgnifieth thefather, the mother, the children thewife, the :riend> the coufin ; alfo, thefruit or the body; eloquence andknowledge, for it is very fruitfid—Again, it fignifies richesandpofleffionsbecaufe it increfeth and diminiUbieth,alfo cbuhfels and iecrets, poverty andfervitude ; alfo it iignifieth dignityand increafe of honour; therefore,when one departs he feeth it in hiseftate and palace; it fignifieth alfo in-creafing, diminilhing and redoublingof things prefent to alf, only the wifeand friends excepted it taketh themaway, bfecatife a man may not imparttheir ufe to any.Of the Back.The back, and all the hinder parts,fignify old agetherefore, as onethinks hishack andhinder partstobs,fb fhali be in old age.Of the Knees.The knees being flout and fturdy,fignifies in many other notions andoperations, of health , but being weakand difeafed, to the contrary ; aJfo atree or branch coming out of theknee, fignifieth flcwnefs, andto a fickman, death.Of the fmall of the Leg, Feet, and Heei,The frnall of the leg has, as it were, . ( 8 >the fair.e fignificntion as the knees, to ,have many feet; for merchants andmailers of {hips, for they commandthe mailer. This dream is good forpoor men.To dream of ftorms and a troublediky. denotes-anger.If a maid or widow dreams a manputs a ring on her finger, or ties onher garter it denotes fudden marrige.To dream one wears a garland,promifes the party honour, repura-tion, and preferment.To dream our living friends aredtad is a fign they are in health.To dream ot lighted tapers denotesthe pan y happy in friends and affedionTo dr earn one is-in danger of beingkilled denotesa deliverance from greatdanger.To dream you embrace withoutpower to fpeak, denotes the party tofall in love, but {hall not obtain theparty defired.To dream of finging and mufic,denotes you .{hall foon hear of the ,marriage of feme relations.To dream you hear magpies chat¬ter fignihes brawling and contentionFor a barren woman to dream {heembraces one of her own fex. denote#that in time fhe fhall have children ;but to a fruitful woman it denotespain and forrow in child bearing.For lovers to dream they fall outand quarrel, fignifies conftancy andaffe&ion. .To dream you fee a little fpnngincreafe to a river or lake, fignifies anincreafe of riches and preferment.To dream one receives a letter, de¬notes good fuccefs in love, or thefpeedy arrival of abfent friends.To dream you hear th^ finging offwallows, denotes anger.For a maid to dream £he kifies herfweet-heart, is a fign of true, affedHon' To fee great feafts and partake ofthem, fignifies plent* ; but if you aredebarred from eating,, then want and-poverty.To dream you catch great {tore orfi(h, denotes riches and plenty.To dream of dead relations, pro-mifes the leeing of fome friends,'_ ( ^ )To dream you receive money is’tacky, hut dreaming of finding mo-"ney betokent difapointmentFor a maid to write the numeraltetters in her own name, andlay themunder the pillow, the firft Friday in,the month ; if fhe dreams fhe fees*ny perfon writing, or calling up ac¬counts fhe mayfuddenly expe& over¬rules of marriage, a happy wedding.To dream the fun fliines bright inyour houfe foretells profperityTo dream you fee an egg hanging'by a ring at your bed’s head, fignifiesyour finding hidden treasureTo dream you fhake hands, figni¬fies courtfhip and love.To dream of young birds, fignifi-cth child-birthTo dream of fire, fignifies ficknefs«r difepntent.III. The birth of children on every dayoj the zteehHe that is born on Sunday fhall begreat and thriving. He that is bornor. Monday fhall profper, ifhe begina work on that day. fje that is born( 11 )on Tufcfday, fhall be convetous, and■perifli with iron, and hardly come toold age; but to begin any thing onthat day is good He that is born onWednefday, fhall lightly learn word«.He that is born on Thurfday, lhall beliable and worlhipful; and to beghi.any thing on that day is good Hethat is born on Friday, fhalHtve longand be lecherous. And he that isborn on Saturday, Ihall feldorubepro*iitable, except the courfe of the moondo bring him to it.V. AdivifiDH of mnn's agehy twelve timetfxfigns*6. THE firft fix years briag him np a child,i* b«p him uuicr fro» waxing too-18 The next let him learn no longer to toy ;04 The next a man and no longt r to boy ;JO The next let trim wifely lay out for a wife,36 The next look about him nojr or never to thrive,At The next make fure fora term of life,48 Th* next five fomething for children or wife,45 The next to be faid give over thy lull;60 The next think hourly whether go thou muft,66 The next get a ftaff thy body to Slav,72 The nrxt jo to Heaven : God fend ua the way.Reuember that divifuna pod on.So thia life alfo wil! quickly be gone.V. Whether the party fhali die. that fall*etb tick on any Jay of the month.He that fallcth lick on the firft dayof each 'month, of an infirmity, the.( 12 )’third day is to be feared, which ifhe pafs, he fhall efcape till thirty daysHe ihatwaxeth Tick onthe fecond daythough he be very weak, yet he fhallrecover. He that waxeth Tick on thethird day, at next change fhall be de¬livered. He that waxeth fick on thefourth day, fhall be grieved until thetwenty-eight day, which, if he pals,he fhall efcape He that hckens ontwenty eight-day, tho’ he fuller griev-oufly, he (hall efcape. He that wax-,eth fick on the fixth day, though hefeem to be healed, neverthelefs onthe fifth day of the other month hemay die He that waxeth fick on thefeventh day fhall be delivered. Hethat falleth fick on the eight day,if he is not well in the ninth, he maydie. He that waxeth fick on theninth day, though it be with grief,may efcape. He that falleth fick onthe tenth day, may die. He thatwaxftl. lick on the eleventh dav maybe well the next day. He that fallethfick on the twelfth (fay, if he be notwe;! in two^days, in fifteen, he maydie. He that falleth fick on the thir-tenth day, if he pafs the eighteenth,he may efcape. He that waxeth lickthe fourteenth day may efcape. Hethat falleth lick the fifteenth day ex¬cept he recover within eighteen days,he may die. He that lickens on theiixteenth may efcape. He that lich¬ens on the feventeenth, may die thetenth of the next month. He that fall¬eth lick on the eighteenth day, maybe healed. He that fickens on thetwenty-firft day may efcape. He thatlickens on the twentieth day, mayefcape. He that falls lick on ihetwenty-firft day,-, may efcape. Hethat falls lick on the twenty-fecondday, may efcape the next month fol¬lowing. He that falls lick on thetwenty-third day, it is uncertain whe¬ther he efcape or not. He that fall¬eth fick on the twenty-fourth day inthe next month may die, He thatlickens on the twenty filth day mayefcape. He that falls feck on thetwenty fixth day may efcape. He“that failethfickon thetwenty-feventhday, ntay die. He that fickens onthe twenty-eight day may die. Hethat falleth fick on the twenty-ninthday, may recover. He tha t fallethfick on the thirtieth day, it is doubt¬ful whether he would die at that timeor not, He that takes-fickeneft on thethirty firit day may very probably re¬cover if he live pad: the feventh dayof the following month.VI, To know whether a woman be withchild of a hoy or a girl.TAKE a difh and put fome waterin it then let the woman milk herbread into it; and if it be a boy itwill float, if not it will fink.VII An excellent way to know in themorning, when you go forth, whetheryou Jhall have good or lad luck.WHEN you go out of your houfeinto the dreets, fields, or any otherplace, the fird that you meet with,whether his or her name begin withthefe letters, A, F, O, V, C, L, thatdoth betoken good fortune that day;and if his or her name begins withthe letters, S, D, T. I, is bf ill fuccefsto any thing that dayVIII. To make a man or woman put offtheir cloths.TAKE the feed of t thiftle that'grows upon ditches, make it into apowder, and put it into your bofona,or take a linnen cloth dipped in hare'sblood and make a candle thereof,light it and the like will follow.IX To make a maid's face fairTAKE the flower of rofemary, andboil it in white wine, then wafh yourface therewith, and ufe to drinkthereof.X. To cure the Felon.TAKE the herb of grace, ruebalm,four leaven, and fnails that havefhells on their backs; taking themout of their (hell; beat all thefe to¬gether and apply it to the fore.XI. The way to heal any thing that isfcalied with hot liquor.YOU muft take ale-hoof, annife,fheep-nit, fheep-dung, goofe-dung ;and when you have walked the herbs,break them alltogether, fry them,andftrain it, and make ,a plafter thereofI and lay it on the part; warm it a,little before you ufe it, lay on newplafters twice a day. You may takedew of houfeleck, fallad-oil and wa-i' ( ^ ) 7 %ter, heat them together, and vyasli tliefpace before you ufe the plaiiter.XTI The Jigmjication of moles on any- part of the body of man and "woman.A mole on the right arm denotesa man fortunate from the terror ofmilitary affairs, to a woman a fortu¬nate, good, and rich hufband-A mole on the lefc arm, fignifies toa man. that he (hall be in danger of^ committing murder and be of a peey-ifh, pettifh naiture : to a woman itdeclares her a brawling fcold.A mole under the mufcle of theright arm denotes a man to thrive by¬plays, by arms, and by horfes to awoman it iignifies inheritance by herparents.A mote on the left arm, betweenthe elbow and the wrift, fhews thathe {hall have baftards, and be in dan¬ger of the French difeafeand it isas bad for a woman.A mole on the left fide and neatthe upper part of the breait, {hews theparty {hall have good fortune in plant¬ing, fowing tilling, building and theUke, a woman that hath this mole•ifhall be fortunate and receive giftsand inheritance.A mole on the right breaft, declaresgood fortune in marriage, long life,and honour; a woman with this mole(hall have exceeding good fortune,A mole on the back, tending tother right fide foreftfews a man riche*honour and poflellions; to a womanas good fortune,A mole onthe right fide ofthe bellyon the upper part, fhow a man fhallhave a rich wife ; to a woman goodfortune,A mole on the eye-brows, fhewsto a man a good wit; to a womanwifdom and prudence.A mole on the right fide of thebody near the middle promifes a mangood fortune in merchandife; to awoman good fortune in marriage,A mole on the left fide ofthe backdenotes long imprifonment; to a wo¬man that (he fhall go out of her owncountry, yet fhe fhall have two huf-bands but none of the beft.Amole on the left fide of the breaftfignificsthat a man fhalibe difpleafingf f. '8 )unto nis iupenorsto a woman it(hews poverty.A mole on the middle of the bteaftfdenotes a man a little mipleafent indifcourfe ; this (hews a woman to beweak, fimple and idle.A mole on the left fide of the bellyis indifferent good fortune ; in a wo¬man it denotes a pure fpirit.A mole on the left fobt, intimatesrafh and evil qualities ; and to a wo--man a great deal of care and labour.A mole on the right fide of thebelly, next to the navel fhews theperfon addicted to long journies; toa woman a rich hufband.A mole on the ribs of the rightfide, fhews to a man longlife, and'riches flowing to him ; to a womanthe fame good fortune.A rnole on the left fide of-the ribs,declares a man cruel and and furious,and the woman vain and proud,A mole on the midft df the ftomachfhewsa man fhallfuffer much througha woman’s means ; this uiole in \vo-me declares them to be vain and lub-urious.( 19 )A mole on the left (hdulder, to aman, it threatens prifon and perfecu-tions; and to a woman, anguifh andfhame and poverty.A mole on the right (houlder (hewsa man happy in all his interprpriEet;and a woman, that Ihe will keep, aswell as get her hufbaiuTs eftate.A SONG.J)ESPISE not moles in any cafe,For moles do fignify,to every man as they are plac’d.How each mans fortunes lie.Mark well the moles all o’er yourCompare them by this bookbodyYou‘ll find them true, or Tm a noddyIf you with care do look.As marks and features in the face,Do tell mens fortunes true;So lines in hand in every {pace.And moles^the body too,Dreams alfo tell what is to come,By which all men may know,Whatmaybe theirmoft certain doomHere in'the world below,XU, ExaSl rules whereby a man or wo¬man may know if thy jhall obtain theparty defired in masriag*.( _ 20 )To know this, which hath be^nheld fora great fecret, put their chnf-tian and firnames together, andconh-derwhat numbersthelettersmakethatftand for numbers in them, as the I,Hands For one ; V, for five ; X, forten ; L, for fifty-; C. for a hundredM. for a thoufand ; D, for five hun¬dred, &c. writeevery letter on afepa-rate pieces of paper, roll them up, andput the billets into any. thibg, andfliake them together; and in drawingif thenumberofyour names comes upto what it would in fo many billetswhichyou put in for, you will be hap¬py in your defire; but if a crofs num¬ber arife, you will meet with manydifapointments.XIV. Flow a young man or woman maychoofe a good bujband or wife.THE hair in this cafe, is very re¬markable, viz. Blackifli hair fignifies the party rafhcholeric, given much to quarrels andftrife ; but if it be foft and pliable, theparty is moderately meekand humbleof a free temper and good nature.Dark brown hair fignifies an indif-iercnt good temper, loving and affa¬ble, one ealy. tolae wrought on withgood ufage, and^proves a good matchand many chileren.Light brown hair that is not harlhor broken at the ends, fhews the partyvery loving and good natured, indufl-rous and patient in the pleafure ofmarriage.Flaxen hair is Venus' own colour,and rarely tails in any one, to render,a foft kind temper, ufually df a fairand fanguine completion, very amo¬rous and apt to love.Bulky red hair fliows the perfonmelancholy, ot a morrofe temper, notmuch fubjet to love, but covetous,.and defigning after riches.Bright or deep red hair, {hows theparty •very leacherous *, one that willhave many childrenand very pleatingin marriage, yet apt to ftray, if fatis-fa&ion in marriage fails, it alfo figni—heth the party wife and induftrious,not defigned for great riches.Any colours that are intermix¬ed between thefe, precipitate equallyof the temper, qualities good natureand humours, that I have mentionedin the degrees of mixtures. And thusmany a man or woman make theirconjedure in a good choice, and fobe happy in a profperous marriageflate.XV. How to know by rules of art>whether ajemede be a pure virgin or not.TO do this, take of alabafter aquarter of an ounce, and burn it inthe fire till it may be beat to a veryfine powder; then fift the powderthro’ a piece of lawn, till it becomevery fine : fteep it in acquavite, thendry and powder it again; concal thistill you have an oportunity to put adrachm of it into any liquorthe partyis to drink, when you are at any mer¬ry metting, or drinking-bout; and,if being drank, it-makes her not toblufti or change her coulour, fhe hasloft her virginity; if she does, she isa maid. So by this you may, knowif fhe has parted with thetoy you courtforNote This may be done without anyharm to the per/on.XVI. 'Xo ’know- if a young man be abachelor or not,TAKE the feeds of carflties bene-didus,-or blefled thiftie, dry them fothat they may be beat to powder;take the pitch that grows to the (hellof an joyfter, dry it and*powder itlikewi{&. and mix it with the other;give of this powder to the party, ha¬ving drank it. if he be not a true,bachelor, will more frequently thanufual, be obferved to go and makeurin, which he will wonder at him-felf. not knowing the caufe : but ifhe has his virginity, no fuch extraor¬dinary matter will happen.XVI How to make love powder, toxaufe any perfon to Jail in love with you.TAKE nettle-feeds and juniper-•berries, dry them that they may bebeaten to powder, or calfine or burnin the fire the claw of a crab, that itmay be done the like withal; mixthefe powder* finely lifted together,and give as much as will lie on a filver-penny, in any liquor to the party,and it will produce wonderful effeds.. ( 2+ )without doing any harm, by whicha hufband or wife through prudentmanagement, may be very eafily ob¬tained.Another way.Take of the female fern root aquarter of an ounce, dry it well.pow-der it with feeds of tulips and burntpeach-ftones; make this into a finepowder, give it in a glafs of wine, orother liquor ; and if you be any waytaking or pleafing in perfon or beha-vour, doubt not but the party towhom you give it will foon be lovingand kind, though never fo fliy oraverfe to love before,XVIff. Hbiu to rejlore a !q/t maiden head-TAKE myrtle berries, beat them,to a powder, add to this powder thebeaten flower of lavendercotton, andwhen both mixed, drink a little ofthe powder, in a glafs of white orRhenifli wine. You will find thewonderful effeds of it to your mutualfatisfadion,Then buy tbit book tbe price is fsnaU,Stub other books are fitly ;For it y our fortunes ’will tell all,More true then Father Lilly,FINIS.