LIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEELSir Robert Peel was born at Bury, on the Gtli ofFebruary, 1788. His early education was superin¬tended by his father, who kindled the flame of ambi¬tion in bis breast, by pointing out to him the exampleof Mr. Pitt, who, when just emerging into manhood,had been appointed to preside over the destinies ofthe British empire. The great object of the child’sdesires was to emulate Pitt, and he devoted himselfto study with an eagerness and attention which couldnot fail to ensure success. At the proper age, he wassent to Harrow, where he had Lord Byron for a cotem-porary. The noble poet has given the followingaccount of his school-fellow.“ Peel, the orator and statesman (that was, or is, oris to be,) was my form-fellow, and we were both atthe top of our remove (a public-school phrase.) Wewere on good terms; but bis brother was my inti¬mate friend. There were always great hopes of Peelamongst us all, masters and scholars, and he has notdisappointed them. As a scholar, he was greatly mysuperior; as a declaimer and actor, I was reckonedat least his equal; as a schoolboy, out of school, Iwas always in scrapes, and he never. And in schoolhe always knew his lesson, and I rarely; but whenI knew it, I knew it nearly as well. In general in¬formation, history, &c. I think I was his superior.”On quitting Harrow, he became a gentleman-com¬moner of Christ Church, Oxford, where he took hisdegrees with great distinction, having, in 1808, ob¬tained double first class honors, in classics and mathe¬matics.4LIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.Having completed Ids education, his father procuredfor him a seat in Parliament, and, in 1809, when only21 years of age, he was returned for Cashel, and tookhis seat in the House of Commons for that borough.He delivered his maiden-speech in the year 1810,seconding the address to the throne; the modesty andability he displayed were deservedly admired, andhe was generally regarded as one of the most promis¬ing young statesmen of the day.After having acted for some months, as underSecretary of State in the colonial department, Mr.Peel was appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland, inSept. 1812, and held that office till the year 1838,when he resigned. His Irish administration was notvery popular; he was identified with the high Pro¬testant party, and his conciliating manners, thoughcombined with unimpeachable personal conduct, didnot save him from the severe animadversions of hispolitical opponents. Mr. Peel was early attacked byMr. O’Connell, particularly on occasion of the vetoproject,—one of Mr. Pitt’s schemes for consolidatingthe Union of England and Ireland, to concede a qua¬lified emancipation of the Catholics, provided thecrown should have a vote on the appointment ofCatholic Bishops. This arrangement was approvedof at Rome, but Mr. O’Connell denounced it as a“disgraceful compromise of an indefeasible Britishright.” “ And whom,” said he, “ are we to have atthe head of this commission ? Why, that ludicrousenemy of ours, who has got, in jest, the name he de¬serves in earnest, ‘ Orange Peel,’ a raw youth squeezedout of the workings of I know not what factory inEngland.” On Sir Henry Parnell’s motion, in favourof the Catholic claims, Mr. Peel revenged himself forthis sarcasm, by quoting several violent passages fromMr. O’CoiffieU’s speeches, interspersed with some cut¬ting remarks of his own. Mr. O’Connell was verywroth, and the next time he spoke in public, madeLIFE OF Sill RuliEUT PEEL.use of the following language :—“ Mr. I’eel wouldnot dare in my presence, nor in any place where hewas liable to personal account, to use a single expres¬sion derogatory to my character or honour.” Mr.Peel having sent a message to Mr. O’Connell, say¬ing that he held himself personally responsible forwhat he had uttered in the House of Commons, ahostile meeting was appointed to take place at Ostend,where Mr. Peel .and his seconds soon arrived ; butMr. O’Connell wTas arrested in passing through Lon¬don, and bound, in heavy sureties, not to leave thekingdom. The affair here ended • but the personaldislike betw’een them continued, and the Agitatorused to assail Mr. Peel unsparingly, whenever an op¬portunity offered itself.In 1817, Mr. Peel brought in a bill for introducinga more effective system of police in Ireland, andalthough the measure wras strongly opposed at thetime, it has since been found a very beneficial change.The only remnant of its unpopularity, is that the Irishpolicemen still retain the nickname of “ Peelers.”About this time a vacancy having occured in the re¬presentation of the University of Oxford, the seatwas conferred on Mr. Peel, and he was thus placedin a position to command great influence in Parlia¬ment. During the discussion of the change in themonetary system of the country, he displayed greatfinancial talents, and superior readiness as a debater.Not less remarkable was the courage with which hemet the menacing prophecies of those who opposed themeasure, though his owur father was among the num¬ber.For the reformation effected in the Criminal Codeof the country, we are indebted to Mr. Peel. Tomitigate its severity, he brought in no less than fivebills, the whole of which were passed into law, andhis exertions in this instance alone, even if he hadperformed no other services, entitled him to the eter-GLIFJ2 OF SIU UODKUT PEEL.nal gratitude of liis country. We may liere record adomestic event in the life of Mr. Peel. On the 8thof June, 1820, he was married, at Upper SeymourStreet, London, to Julia, youngest daughter of Gen¬eral Sir John Floyd. The bride was in her twenty-fifth, and the bridegroom in the thirty-third year ofhis age.In January, 1822, Mr. Peel was installed at thehead of the Home Department, where he remainedtill the spring of 1827, when the illness of LordLiverpool broke up the administration, and Mr. Peelthrew up office. His reason for doing so was, that,from the first moment of his public life, he had con¬stantly resisted the extension of political privileges tothe Roman Catholics. His opposition was foundedon principle, and he could not hold connection withan administration likely to forward the claims of theCatholics. In January, 1828, Mr. Peel again becameHome Secretary, under the Duke of Wellington aspremier, and in the following year he proposed thegreat measure of Catholic emancipation, to which hehad previously been strongly opposed. The chargeof apostacy was loudly brought against him, but hedefended himself with spirit and ability. He mainlyrested his defence upon the repeated divisions in theHouse of Commons, in favour of the disputed claims.“Such,” said Mr. Peel in his speech, “is the conclusionto which I found myself compelled by the irresistibleforce of circumstances: and I will adhere to it, aye,and I will act upon it, unchanged by the scurrilityof abuse—by the expression of opposite opinions,however vehement or however general—unchangedby the deprivation of political confidence, or by thefar heavier sacrifice of private friendships and affec¬tions. Looking back upon the past, surveying thepresent, and fore-judging the prospects of the future,again I declare that the time is come when this ques¬tion must be settled. I shall follow the exampleLIFE OF Slit ROBERT PEEL.7of tlie pilot, who does not always steer the samecourse to guard the ship from danger, but a differentcourse under different circumstances, as they arise, inorder to save the vessel from the very dangers whichthe captain and crew have most dreaded.” Themeasure was carried triumphantly,and it was followedby another of great importance, viz., the establishmentof a regular system of police in the metropolis to su¬persede the old plan of parochial watching. Therural districts and large towns were soon included inthe general protection, and the working of this grandsystem has vindicated the policy which introduced it.On the death of his father, (3d May, 1830,) Mr.Peel succeeded to the baronetcy, and to one of thelargest private fortunes possessed by any commonerin England.The French revolution of 1830,occasioned aclamourfor “ Parliamentary Reform,’’ which the Duke ofWellington and his colleagues were unable to control.Sir Robert Peel, as well as other leading statesmen ofthe time, was opposed to the extension of the repre-, sentation. The House met on the iM Nov., whenthe late Earl Grey urged the necessity of immediatereform in the representative system. The Duke ofWellington determined to oppose the measure, andthe ministry, having been defeated in a question ofconfidence, in the House of Commons, resigned. Itwas succeeded by the celebrated “ Reform Ministry,”with Earl Grey at its head; and Sir Robert Peel be¬came the leader of the Opposition. Although hestrenuously resisted the Reform Bill in all its stages,and attempted to convince the House that it wouldnot be productive of the benefits that so many ima¬gined, he nevertheless acquiesced in the measure assoon as it become the law of the land; and labouredzealously, and in the end successfully, to construct aConservative party. The first elections under theReform Bill had reduced the Tory party to a very8LIFE OF SIR ROBEUT FEEL.small minority; but Sir Robert Peel gradually re¬united them, and developed the new plan by whichhe proposed to reinstate them in public opinion, andultimately in political power.In the autumn of 1834, Sir Robert, accompaniedby Lady Peel, and some other members of his family,left England, with the intention of spending the win¬ter in Italy, but while at Rome he was suddenlysummoned by a special messenger to return home,and take the office of premier ;—the King havingdismissed Lord Melbourne’s cabinet. Sir Robertimmediately left Rome, and on his arrival in Londonhad an audience of his Majesty, accepted the office ofPrime Minister, and, with a rapidity which surprisedthe public, as well as his political opponents, com¬menced to form his administration. He appealed tothe country for support, on the ground that his.formermeasures had shown a desire to improve; but in theelections which followed, he failed to obtain a majority,and was obliged to resign in April, 1835. By therestoration of fhe Whigs, Sir Robert Peel was againthrown into'the position of leader of the Opposition,and he had now occasion to develope the masterlytactics which had already increased his party, andwhich were destined, at no distant date, to place themagain in power.At a dinner given to Sir Robert Peel, on 12thMay, 1838, he thus spoke of the changing fortunesof the Conservative party. “ In the session immedi¬ately following the passing of the Reform Bill, wenever mustered on any division in the House ofCommons, more than one hundred Conservatives ;now, 1 have the honour of addressing three hundred.On the first dissolution in 1835, when I w’as at thehead of the Government, I believe wo divided on thenomination of speaker, 30G members. The namesattached to the invitation of this day, comprising 313members of the House of Commons, will, I think,LIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.0sufficiently demonstrate that, notwithstanding adversedecisions to the contrary, the public confidence hasnot permitted our members to be reduced in conse¬quence of the second dissolution.”The reinstated ministry continued till 1841, when,being defeated in their proposed relaxations of theduties on corn, &c., they appealed to the country bya dissolution. The decision of the constituencies hav¬ing been against them, they were obliged to resign,and in September, 1841, Sir Robert Peel came intopower, at the head of the strongest government thatever existed in the country. At this time, the con¬cerns of the country seemed in inextricable confusion.The revenue was several millions below the expendi¬ture; bad harvests, and other causes, had producedgreat distress in the manufacturing districts ; and inGlasgow, Manchester, and Paisley, the most awfuldestitution prevailed. Sir Robert was sensible of thedifficulties he had to encounter, and faced them withenergy and resolution. One of his earliest measures,was a modification of the sliding-scale, which regu¬lated the duties on the import of foreign corn, andthis was followed by the relaxation of other restric¬tions in the commercial tariff, including the removalof prohibitory, and the reduction of protective duties.To meet his financial embarassments, he proposed theIncome Tax, and obtained an almost unanimous sup¬port for the measure. Addressing the late ministers,who objected to it, he exclaimed, “ What have youdone with the revenue I left you? In the year 1835,you found the affairs of the two great empires in thisstate : in the United Kingdom, the surplus of in¬come over expenditure, was £1,378,000; in India,£ 1,556,000. You had then a nett surplus approach¬ing to three millions! How have you left matters?You say I ever state the difficulties. Can you denythat you found a surplus of three millions, and haveleft a deficiency of five millions? On the 5th of10LIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.April, 1842, the deficit of the revenue of the UnitedKingdom, compared with its expenditure, was£2,570,000; of India, £2,430,000. The difference,then, against this country and its credit, is eight mil¬lions as compared with 1835 !” It was soon evidentthat the tendency of Sir Robert Peel’s policy, wastowards an abolition of the taxes on food. The ap¬proaches to freedom of trade were gradual, and per¬haps slow, but events occurred which compelled himto accelerate his progress. In most of the countriesof Europe, the harvest of 1845 was deficient, and thefailure of corn was aggravated by the mysteriousdisease which attacked the potato crop, and spreadwith alarming rapidity, particularly in Ireland, wherethat vegetable constitutes almost the only food of agreat portion of the people. Alarmed by the pro¬spect of famine in Ireland, and scarcity in England,Sir Robert Peel proposed that the ports should bethrown open, for the admission of provisions on the1st of November, and that application slimed be madeto parliament for a bill of indemnity; at the same timehe intimated his intention of proposing the total abo¬lition of the corn-laws. Finding himself opposed bya majority of his colleagues, Sir Robert Peel tenderedhis resignation, which her majestyreluctantlyaccepted.Lord John Russell was then invited to form an ad¬ministration, but having failed in the attempt, SirRobert resumed office, and again threw aside all per¬sonal motives in order to carry a measure, which cir¬cumstances had convinced him was necessary for thewelfare of the country. His friend, the Duke ofWellington, expressed his determination to supporthim, by every means in his power; the other mem¬bers concurred in the Duke’s sentiments, and SirRobert entered Parliament, bearing his corn-law repealmeasures in his hand.Sir Robert Peel said, in defending his change ofopinion on the corn laws—“ Power to effect greatLIFE OF SIR ROBERT FEEL.11objects is really valuable; but for my part 1 can saywith perfect truth, that even for those objects I donot covet it. Still I am ready to incur its responsi¬bilities, to bear its sacrifices, to confront its perils ;but I will not retain it with mutilated power andshackled authority. I will not stand at the helmduring dark and tempestuous weather, if that helmis not allowed to freely traverse ; and I will not un¬dertake to direct the course of the vessel now byobservations taken in 1842.” To the taunt of incon¬sistency, he thus replied, “ I will not withhold thehomage due to the progress of reason, and to truth,by denying that my opinions on the subject of Pro¬tection have undergone a change. It may be sup¬posed that there is something humiliating in makingsuch an admission... Sir, I feel no such humiliation ;but I should feel the deepest humiliation if, havingchanged or modified my opinions, I declined to ac¬knowledge the change for the base fear of encounter¬ing the charge of inconsistency.”After a struggle of a few months, the commercialmeasures of the cabinet were carried by large ma¬jorities in both Houses of Parliament, and receivedthe Queen’s assent in person. Sir Robert Peel nowfelt that the time was come when he should resign.He was overthrown by a division upon the “ IrishCoercion Bill,” in which the regular Opposition andProtectionists joined to deprive him of office. In hislast speech, he said, “ I relinquish power with a morelively recollection of the support and confidence Ihave received during several years, than of the op¬position which, during a recent period, I have encoun¬tered. I shall leave a name severely censured, I fear,by many who, on public grounds, deeply regret theseverance of party ties. I deeply regret that sever¬ance, not from interested or personal motives, butfrom the firm conviction that fidelity to party en¬gagements, the existence and maintenance of a great12LIFE OF SIR ROBERT FEEL.party—constitutes a powerful instrument of govern¬ment. I shall surrender power severely censured alsoby others, who, from no interested motive, adhere tothe principle of protection, considering the mainten¬ance of it to he essential to the welfare and interestsof the country. I shall leave a name execrated byevery monopolist, who, from less honourable motives,clamours for protection because it conduces to his ownindividual benefit; but it may be, that I shall leavea name sometimes remembered with feelings of goodwill in the abodes of those whose lot it is to labour,and to earn their daily bread by the sweat of theirbrow, when they shall recruit their exhausted strengthwith abundant and untaxed food, the sweeter becauseit is no longer leavened with injustice.” Loud cheersgreeted the delivery of these words, and as he leftthe House on the evening of his resignation of office,(29th June, 1846,) he was awaited outside, by amultitude of people, whose enthusiastic plaudits ac¬companied him to his house, in Whitehall Gardens.Sir Kobert Peel might now be said to have takenleave of office, but there were many who hoped tosee him minister again, for it was pretty generallyadmitted, that he was the man best qualified to go¬vern the country. He, however, knew that it was hisfarewell speech.A writer on this event makes the following obser¬vations:—“That which he did not and coidd notknow, was the full nobleness of the position whichhe would henceforth hold. “He had nothing more toattain. His wealth had always been great, and itwas not in the power, even of the sovereign, to enoblehim. His honours are of a higher order than those ofthe peerage, and would be rather impaired than en¬hanced by his removal from among the Commons.In the Commons he has no party, because there isno party there; and if there were, he has withdrawnfrom party conflict. He speaks as from his ownLIFE OF Silt ItOUEUT FEEL.13mind, and his words have singular weight. He sitsin the legislature, a man free from personal aims ofevery kind, at full leisure, and in full freedom to castlight where it is wanted on any hand, to give guid-jance and sanction, and material for speculation andaction in future years, when he will be no more seenin his place. Men of all parties seem to agree onone point in regard to Sir Robert Peel,—that hislast position in the British Legislature is the noblestthat, in our period of time, can be held by any man.”From this period, Sir Robert Peel may be said tohave occupied the position of Moderator of the Houseof Commons, supporting the ministry in every way,to enable them to carry out the new commercialpolicy ; and it is remarkable, that the only occasionon which he opposed them, occurred the night beforethe accident which resulted in his death. On Satur¬day afternoon, the 29th of June, 1850, not more thanten hours after delivering a brilliant speech, condem¬natory of Lord Palmerston’s foreign policy, SirRobert Peel rode out for exercise, attended by hisgroom. Having called at Buckingham Palace, andentered bis name in her Majesty’s visiting book, hoproceeded up Constitution Hill, when his horse be¬came restive, and Sir Robert was instantly thrownover its head, and fell heavily on his face. Havingretained hold of the bridle, the animal was suddenlychecked,and fell with force above the right honourablebaronet. He was immediately raised by three gen¬tlemen who saw the accident, and in answer to theirquestion, as to whether he was much hurt, he replied,“ Yes, very much.” While a carriage was beingprocured, he became unconscious, and remained inthat state for a few minutes after he had been placedin the carriage. They had not proceeded far, whenSir James Clark, having heard of the accident, cameto see if he could render any assistance. Dr. Foucart,one of the gentlemen who had first raised Sir Robert3 “l . LIFE OF Sill ROBEllT FEEL.Peel from the ground, requested Sir James to accom¬pany them to Whitehall, which he at once consentedto do. On being lifted out of the carriage at White¬hall Gardens, Sir Robert was able, with assistance, towalk into the house, where Lady Peel, and the othermembers of the family awaited his arrival with thegreatest anxiety. Lady Peel was overwhelmed witlremotion, and the effect of the meeting on Sir Robertwas so painful, that he swooned in the arms of Dr.Foucart, and was placed on a sofa in the dining room,from which apartment he was never removed. Im¬mediately after the accident, Prince Albert, accom¬panied by the Prince of Prussia and Prince George,arrived at Sir Robert’s residence, to make inquiries.The Duke of Wellington also ca'.led. Lord Palmer¬ston was one of the first of the nobility who sent toask for Sir Robert.Till a late hour on Saturday evening, the calls ofthe nobility and gentry were incessant, and duringthe whole of the following day, the large space ofWhitehall Gardens, was filled by a vast multitudeof people, anxious to ascertain the condition of theRight Honourable Baronet. Several favourablebulletins were issued, and, up to Tuesday morning,hopes were entertained of his recovery; but duringthe day, the symptoms became more alarming, andall the members of his family were introduced to takea last farewell. Shortly after 10 o’clock, it was an ¬nounced that Sir Robert Peel was getting rapidlyworse, and at nine minutes after 11, the distinguishedstatesman expired. Intelligence of the melancholyevent was immediately forwarded to BuckinghamPalace, and to such of the family connexions as re¬sided in the country. On the 9th of July, the mor¬tal remains of Sir Robert Peel were interred in thevault of the Parish Church at Drayton Bassett; and,according to his own express desire, the funeraltook place without ostentation or parade of any kind.LIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.15This country has perhaps never partaken of a morewide spread sentiment of sorrow, than upon the re¬moval from among us, of one of our greatest states¬men. Within twenty-four hours, the announcementof Sir Robert Peel’s death, passed from hand to hand,and from mouth to mouth, in every town and hamletthroughout the length and breadth of the land, andwas everywhere received with one pervading emotionof serious and unaffected regret. lie has left behindhim a renown which will still increase, for the greatmeasures with which his name is associated, are des¬tined to be further developed. We have alreadymentioned, that he had given up all idea of resumingoffice, but he exercised a power of a higher descrip¬tion, and one universally acknowledged ; in all publicaffairs, and, particularly in home affairs, he had almostthe influence of an oracle. Nor was that influenceconfined to our own country. The manner in whichhe understood and practised the law of nations, is ofa nature to inspire the whole of Europe with a senseof his loss. Peace and civilization are deprived ofone of their admirable defenders, and it may be safelypredicted, that all parties in their turn will one daymiss him, and even his opponents will cherish thememory of his customary presence and constant par¬liamentary labours.The first time the House of Lords met, after thedeath of Sir Robert Peel, and before public businessbegan, Lord Lansdowne spoke as follows:—“MyLords, it is quite true, that when we look around thisplace we do not feel the loss of any important person;there is no great blank in this place ; but we are alldeeply made aware of a loss which has occurred inanother assembly, with which we are connected byso many ties and relations, political and personal.Breathing as we do the same atmosphere, and dailyoccupied with the same objects, any occurrence deeplyaffecting the interests and proceedings of that assem-16LIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.lily cannot do otherwise than extend its influence toours. My lords, we all must be aware that to thatassembly there has befallen a great calamity in a greatpersonal loss: and it would be extraordinary indeedif the deep voice of sorrow which has been raisedthere did not find an echo within these walls. Mylords, as it appears to me, it is not the time to sit injudgment upon the political conduct-—upon the publicactions—of any great statesman the moment his pre¬sence is withdrawn. The conduct of every greatpublic man, must abide the judgment of posterity —the actions of one generation must submit to thejudgment of another, perhaps better qualified, bybeing farther away from the scenes of those actions,to contemplate and survey them in all their bearingsand in all their results. But, my lords, there is onetribute at least due to the past exertions and final closeof that distinguished public man’s life, tile value ofwhich is important in proportion as it is instantaneous,that is, my lords, the expression of public sympathyunasked, unsolicited, unsought for—from all quartersand from all classes of society, attending—I wish Icould add, cheering—the dying moments of such aman. Such sympathy and such feelings are unmixedwith political opinions, and it is evident that yourlordships are no less disposed than every other classof the community to oft'er your condolence on thismelancholy occasion. For myself, I can only saythat it has been my fortune, from a prolonged life, towitness the commencement and development of thecareer of the individual whom I must now unfortun¬ately call the late Sir Robert Peel. I have witnessedhis first exertions, and the commencement of thatcareer which in the ordinary course of nature andhuman events I could not expect to see close. I havefor more than forty years, perhaps more than manyothers, but certainly for a much longer time than manyothers, been made aware of the unremitting zeal withLIFE OF Sill ROBERT PEEL. 1 7which the life of that eminent man has been exclu¬sively devoted (devoted more than that of any otherperson) to public objects and to the service of theState, bringing to that service the greatest and mostdistinguished talents, equally great and equally dis¬tinguished in business and in debate. And, my lords,such having been the case, such exertions having beencontinued to the last, it would be impossible to wit¬ness that sudden and unexpected close to such a lifeso employed, without that passing expression of sym¬pathy, sorrow, and condolence, with which I believeall persons in the country, and more especially allthose connected with its legislation and public pro¬ceedings, have witnessed the event that has filled theirhearts with sorrow, and their minds with apprehen¬sion. My lords, I will say no more; what has beenfelt in the assembly of which he was a member, isfelt here, and is felt throughout the country. And Ipersuade myself that, however feebly, I have butgiven vent to your lordships’ feelings, as well as myown, when I have endeavoured that such a loss shouldfiot pass unnoticed in this House.” Ills lordship waslistened to with the greatest attention, and everysentiment he uttered received a ready and affectingresponse from the House.Lord Stanley next rose and said—“Great as is thepublic loss which we have sustained, and universal asis the sympathy manifested by the whole country atthe calamity which has just occurred, I did not anti¬cipate that in this House, of which Sir Robert Peelwas not a member, the noble marquis would havecalled for an expression of public feeling, or wouldhave adverted, as he has done, to this lamentable oc¬currence. But, my lords, as the noble marquis hasadverted to the case, I cannot deprive myself of themelancholy gratification of declaring how fully I par¬ticipate in the feelings which the noble marquis busso eloquently expressed. The noble marquis truly]{] LIFE UF SIH liObi KX PEEL.said, that this is no time to criticise the public actsof a public man snatched from the country in theprime of life, when he had the reasonable right toexpect that many years remained to him, to bedevoted with that great ability, that unflinching zeal,and that unwearied diligence, which we all know hedevoted to the public service.“ It has been my fortune at some times to be op¬posed, and at other times to be the colleague in officeof the late Sir R. Peel. It has been my deep regretthat, during the last four years of his life, I have beenseparated from him by a conscientious difference ofopinion on an important matter of public policy. Itis with deep regret that I know that difference pre¬vailed between us up to the last period of his valuablelife. But it is a satisfaction for me personally, mylords, to know that, whatever political difference therewas between us, there was no personal hostility oneither side. I am confident that there has been noneon my side—quite as confident that there has beennone on his. I never was one of those who attachedunworthy motives to a course of conduct which I can¬not but deeply lament. I believe that in that stepwhich led me to differ from him, he was actuated bya sincere and conscientious desire to obtain that whichhe believed to be a public good. Mistaken as he wasin that view, I am satisfied that upon that occasion,as upon all others, the public good was the leadingprinciple of his life, and that to promote the welfareof his country he was prepared to make, and did ac¬tually make, every sacrifice. In some cases thosesacrifices were so extensive, that 1 hardly know whe¬ther the great and paramount object of his country’sgood was a sufficient reason to exact them from anypublic man.“ But this is not a time to speak of differences—tospeak of disagreements. A great man and a greatstatesman has passed away from us by the suddeni.ifi; of sir Robert feel. 1‘Jand inscrutable dispensation of Providence. lie basleft in the other House of Parliament—be lias leftamong bis compeers—lie bas left in this country—agreat void, a great blank. We are deprived of theservices of that great, powerful, laborious intellect—of that unflinching diligence—of that unsparing appli¬cation of all his best talents, his strength, his health,and all his great powers to the interests of his coun¬try. This is a moment at which all political consi¬derations have ceased—in which the most solemnfeeling is a fixed impression of the vanity of all humanhopes and ambition, and of the instability of thosethings on which the destinies of nations depend, andin which we are bound to recollect that we are in thehands of Him who rules the destiny of men for everand ever.“ In the feeling which I have just expressed I knowthat I shall be joined by your lordships and the coun¬try at large. I am sure that I shall be joined byuniversal Europe in the regret which I express forthe sudden bereavement which has befallen his family,for the great loss sustained by his country, and forthe sudden removal from the world of one who inprivate life was universally admitted to be in thepossession of every virtue, and to be strictly unim¬peachable. No one will deny to my lamented friendthe praise of having been an able, an assiduous, anda conscientious servant' of his country.”Lord Brougham then addressed their lordships, tothe following effect:—“For forty years I had thefortune of being generally opposed to Sir Robert Peelon most political questions. I live to acknowledgecheerfully and conscientiously the splendid merits ofthat eminent individual, and to be convinced thatupon the subjects on which we differed from eachother, he acted from the most pure and conscientiousmotives. At the last stage of his public career,chequered as it was—and 1 told him in private that20LIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.chequered it would be—when he was differing fromthose with whom he had been so long connected, andfrom purely public-spirited feelings was adopting acourse which was so galling and unpleasing to them—T told him, I say, that he must turn from the storn:without to the sunshine of an approving consciencewithin. Differing as we may difter on the pointwhether he was right or wrong, disputing as we maydispute on the results of his policy, we must all agreethat to the course which he firmly believed to beadvantageous to his country he firmly adhered, andthat in pursuing it he made sacrifices compared withwhich all the sacrifices exacted from public men bya sense of public duty, which I have ever known orroad of, sink into nothing.”The Duke of Wellington, who could not refrainfrom tears, spoke as follows :—“ My lords, I rise togive expression to the satisfaction with which I havebeard this conversation on the part of your lordships,both on the part of those noble lords who were opposedto Sir Robert Peel during the whole course of theirpolitical lives, and on the part of those noble friendsof mine who have only been opposed to him lately.Your lordships must all feel the high and honourablecharacter of the late Sir Robert Peel. I was longconnected with him in public life. We were both inthe councils of our Sovereign together, and I had longthe honour to enjoy his private friendship. In allthe course of my acquaintance with Sir Robert Peel,I never know a man in whose truth and justice I hada more lively confidence, or in whom I saw a moreinvariable desire to promote the public service. Inthe whole course of my communication with him, Inever knew an instance in which he did not showthe strongest attachment to truth, and I never saw inthe whole course of my life the smallest reason forsuspecting that he stated anything which he did notfirmly believe to be the fact. My lords, I could notLIFE OF SIR ROBERT FEEL.21let this conversation come to a close, without statingthat which I believe to have been tbe strongest cha¬racteristic feature of his character. I again repeat toyou, my lords, my satisfaction at hearing the senti¬ments of regret which you have expressed for hisloss.”Similar tributes of respect to his memory wererendered by the House of Commons. Lord JohnRussell, with the sanction of Her Majesty, proposedthat the remains of Sir Robert Peel should be in¬terred with public honours among the mighty deadin Westminster Abbey; but Mr. Goulbourn, one ofthe executors of his late lamented friend, and asauthorised by his family, respectfully, but firmly de¬clined the proffered honour. He said,—“ I speaknot only in my own name, but in that of Sir RobertPeel’s family, when I say I feel deeply the honourof such a proposition, suggested by the Crown, andresponded to by the general feeling of the House.But I may be permitted to state this—that thosewho were unaquainted with the late Sir Robert Peel,can know but little of the simplicity of his character.If ever there was a man who was distinguished by adesire to avoid pomp and ostentation, that individualwas Sir Robert Peel, and he particularly deprecatedpomp and ostentation in connection with funeral cere¬monies.”Her Majesty, anxious to show the sense entertainedof the services rendered to the crown by Sir RobertPeel, offered to ennoble his family, but Lady Peelrespectfully informed'the Queen, that her own wishwas to bear no other name than that by which herhusband was known to the world, and that, besides, aspecial direction was left by Sir Robert Peel, that nomember of his family should, after his death, acceptany title as a public reward, on account of any ser¬vices he might be supposed to have rendered thestate. Twice in bis life time did be refuse the “ blue22LIFE OF SIU BOBEUT I'ICEB.ribbon.” His ambition was above such toys, and liepreferred to write his name on the history of Idscountry, so that it should bo remembered with feel¬ings of good will by the people from whom he sprung,and whose welfare he had so much at heart. Noman has perhaps done more for rendering our collec¬tions of the works of genius accessible to the workingclasses. It has been stated that our artizans couldnot, like those of other countries, be trusted withadmission to ornamental grounds, museums, or gal¬leries of art; but Sir Robert Peel always reprobatedthe assertion. “ It is not,” said he, “ the intelligentartizan, but the vulgar rich, who deface and injurestatues, pictures, and ornamental trees.” •Sir Robert Peel was a munificent patron of litera¬ture and the arts. He loved the society of the reallygreat men of his time, and at his table might be seenmany of the distinguished characters of whom poster¬ity is likely to hear. During his administration,Southey received a pension of <£300 a year, and wasoffered a baronetcy; Wordsworth received a pensionof the same amount; <£150 a year was given to JamesMontgomery, <£200 a year was bestowed on Mr.Tytler, £200 a year on Mr. Tennyson, £200 a yearon Mr. M‘Culloch, and £ 100 a year on the widow ofThomas Hood. Frances Brown, the blind poetess,received also a pension at his hands. His patronagewas extended to the children of persons eminent inliterature. For the sons of Mrs. Hemans he foundplaces under the Crown, which they still enjoy;and the first appointment of his first administrationwas given to a son of Allan Cunningham.Sir Robert’s love of the fine arts was equal to histaste for literature. Though he was an admirer ofthe works of the old masters, and possessed manysplendid specimens of them, his patronage was chieflyextended to living artists. He was a liberal and ex¬tensive purchaser of their works, and his gallery ofLIFE OF SIR ROBERT PEEL.2.3distinguished living characters, painted expressly forhimself, is perhaps the most extensive collection inthe kingdom.Of the case of poor Haydon we have good reasonto speak. A few days before his suicide, he wrote toseveral high personages stating his distress. Sir 11.Peel was, we believe, the only one of those he ad¬dressed who returned him an answer. His reply wasprompt and considerate, and inclosed a cheque for£50, drawn from the Royal Bounty Fund. Earlyon the morning after Haydon’s death, a friend of theartist addressed a letter to Sir R. Peel, stating thefacts, and adding that the widow and family werewholly unprovided for. This letter he left at thePremier’s residence, and walked on to Haydon’s house.Scarcely had he entered, when a Treasury messengerarrived, with a letter from Sir Robert, expressing hisregret for what had occurred, and begging that acheque which he enclosed for £200, drawn from theBounty Fund, might be devoted to the immediaterelief of his family. Shortly afterwards he obtainedfor Mrs. Haydon a pension of £25 a year in the giftof Lady Peel, and another pension of £50 from theQueen, and sent £100 from his own purse to thesubscription for the family. One of his last officialacts was to give one of the sons a place in the Cus¬toms. These generous acts of Sir Robert Peel wererevealed by chance, and were performed at a timewhen he was himself exposed to the jibes of hisadversaries, and when it might have been supposedhis thoughts were otherwise engrossed.As an orator, Sir Robert Peel was prevented fromtaking the first rank on account of his deficiency inenthusiasm and passion. Pie was fluent, adroit, andconvincing, but never exciting or overpowering ; andwhat is still more to his credit, he never addressedan ill-tempered remark to an opponent, though hewas very often coarsely assailed. “ I have no time21I.II'E OF Sin nOBEUT PEEL.to waste in bandying personalities with the honora¬ble member,” was all the notice he took of a gooddeal of abuse given him on a late occasion.In private life there were few men more estimablethan Sir Robert Peel. As a father, a husband, and• a frjend, be was such an one as England may well beproud of. His charities were without ostentation,and he was ever ready to alleviate the distresses ofill-requited genius.Besides his widow, Sir Robert Peel has left sevenchildren—five sons and two daughters. The eldest,Robert, has succeeded to the baronetcy, and has beenelected member for Tam worth. Frederick representsLeominster. William is a captain in the navy.John Floyd Peel is an officer in the army. And theyoungest son, Arthur Wellesley Peel, is still at col¬lege. Miss Peel married Viscount Villers a fewyears ago. Eliza, the youngest daughter, is unmar¬ried. We cannot yet say how the vast property ofthe late baronet may be disposed of, but it will pro¬bably be divided among his children.