AFIT FOR THE FINGER :on, theSALVE of DIVINITYOn the Sore of Humanity.LAID OPEN IN ASERMON,PREACHED ATA Wedding in SL Edmond's.By WILLIAM SECKElt,Lute Preacher of the Gospel.GENESIS iii. 18.And (lie Loan Goo said, It is not good that the manshould be alone ; I will make him an help-mate for him.Ayr ; Printed and Sold by D. Macarter & Go.1817.( OF SCOTLAND ‘3 E R M O N.Genesis ii. 18.And the Lord God said, It is not good thatthe man should be alone : I will make him anhelp-meet for him.HUMAN misery is to divine mercy, aa black soil to a sparkling diamond ; or asa sable cloud to the sun beams ; Psalm viii. U“Lord, what is man that thou art mindful of“ him !Man is, in his creation, angelical ; in hiscorruption, diabolical.; in his renovation tffeo-logical; in his translation, majestical.There were four silver channels, in whichthe crystal streams of God’s afiection ran toman in his creation.1. In his preparation. 2. In Iris assimila¬tion. 3. In his coronation. 4. In his asso¬ciation.1. In his preparation. Other creaturesreceived the character of their beings bya simple fiat; but there was a consultationat his forming ; not for the difficulty, but forthe dignity of the work. The painter is moststudious about that which he means to makehis master-piece. The four elements wqr.etaken out of their elements t» make up theperfection of man's complexion : the fire waspurified, the earth was refined. When manwas moulded, heaven and earth was married ;a body from the one, was espoused to a soulfrom the other.3In his dissimilation. Other creatures weremade like themselves, but man was madejikeGod, as the wax hath the impression of the Sealupon it. It is admirable to heboid so fair a■picture in such coarse canvas, and so bright acharacter in so brown paper.3. In his coronation. He that made rtinh,and all the rest, made man over all the rest;he was a little lord of a great lotdship : thisking was crowned in his cradle.4. In his association. Society is the solaceof humanity ; the world would be a desart,tvithout a consort.Most of man’s parts are made in pairs ; nowhe‘that was double in his perfection, must notbd-stfngle in his condition : “ And the Lordsaid,” &c.These words are like the' iron-gate that op-pened to Peter of its own accofd,‘dividing them¬selves into three parts :'1. An Introduction-: “ And the Lord God**£aid." 2. An Assertion : “ It is not go td“ that man should be alone.” 3. A Deter¬mination : “ I will make an help meet for him.”-In the first there is a majesty proposed In the second there is a malady presented.—In the third there is a remedy provided.Once more let me put these grapes into the| press.1. The sove»eignness of the expression: —“ And the Lord God said.” 2. The solita¬riness of the condition : “ It is not good,” Ac.3. The suitableness of the provision: •* I will“ make,” Ac.4>In the first, there is the worth of yeraeiu.In the second, there is the. want oi;society.—In tlie third, there is the work of divinity.Of these in their order. And first, of the first.1. The sovereignness of the expression .*,“ And the Lord God said.’J Luke i. 70.As he spake by the mouths of his prophets."In other scriptures he used their mouths, but,in this hd makes use of his own ? They werethe organs, and he the breath ; they thestreams, and he the fountain. How he spake,it tis hard to determine ; whether eternally,internally, or externally. We are not to en¬quire into the manner of speaking, but iptothe matter that is spoken ; which leads, rye,like a directing star, from the suburbs to thecify ; from the porch to the.p^laoe ; from ,theFounder of the mine, to the treasure that is iait : “ It is not good,” Ac.In which we have tw o things :1. The Subjecf. 2. The Predicate.The Subject,. t( Man alone, The Predicate,“ 11 is not good, &c.1. The Subject, “ Man alone.” Take thisin two branches.j. As it is limited to one man) p2. As it is lengthened to all h i.«. > 'L’': ',n: L! y ’ 'First, As it is limited to one man : And soit is taken particularly : Man, for the firstman. When all other creatures had theirmates, Adam wanted his ; though he was theemperor of the earth, and .fire admiral of theseas, yet in Paradise without a companion ;though he was truly happy, yet he was notfully happy; though he had enough for hi*'board, yet he had not enough for his bed ,though he had many creatures to serve him,yet he wanted a creature to solace him ; whenhe was compounded in creation, he must becompleted by conjunction ; when he had no•sin to hurt him, then he must have a wife tohelp him : “ It is not good that man should“ be alone.”Secondly, ^As it is lengthened to all men :And so it is taken universally, Heb. xiii. 4.“ Marriage is honourable unto all.” It is notonly warrantable, but honourable. The wholeTrinity hath conspired together to set a crownof glory upon the head of matrimony.1. God the Father : Marriage was a treeplanted within the walls of paradise, the flower.first grew in God’s garden.2. The Son : Marriage js a chrystal glass,wherein Christ and the saints do see eachother’s faces.3. The Holy Ghost, by his overshadowingof the blessed Virgin. Well might the world,when it saw her pregnancy, suspect her virgi¬nity ; but her matrimonial condition, was agrave to that suspicion ; without this, her in-nocency had not- prevented her infamy ; sheneeded a shield to defend that chastity abroadwhich was kept inviolable at home.Too many that have not worth enough topreserve their virginity, have yet will enoughto covar their unchastity ; turning the medi¬cine of frailty into the mantle of filthiness.—-Certainly she is mad that cats oft' her leg, toget her a crut ch ; or that venoms her face ttf>wear a mask.6Paul makes it one of the characters of thosethat should cherish the faith, 1 Tim. iv. 3.Not to forbear marriage ; which is not onlylawful, but also honourable;—to forbid which,is damnably sinful, and only taught by 'theinfluence of devils. One of the Popes of Romesprinkles this unholy and impure drop upon it,“ Carnis pollutionem et hnmuditiera.”It is strange that should be a pollution, whichwas instituted before corruption ; or that im¬purity which was ordained in the state of inno-cency ; or that they should make that to bea sin, which they make to be a sacrament ;strange stupidity !—But a bastard may be laidat the door of chastity, and a leaden crownset upon a golden head.—Bellarmine, (thatmighty atlas of the Papal power) blows hisstinking breath upon it : “ Better were it for“ a priest to defile himself with many harlots,“ than to be married to one wife.”—Thesechildren of the purple whore prefer monaste¬ries before marriages, a concubine before acompanion.—They use too many women fortheir lusts, to choose any for their love.—Their tables are so largely spread, that theycannot fi;ed upon one dish. As for their exalt¬ing of a virgin-state, it is like him that com¬mended fasting, when he had filled his belly.Who knows not, that virginity is a pearl ofa sparkling lustre ? But the one. cannot be setup, without the other be thrown dow« : Nooblation will pacify the former, hut the de¬molishing of the latter. The’ we find manyenemies to the choice of marriage, yet it is/care to find any enemies to the use of marriage.They would pick the lock that wants the key,and pluck the fruit that do not plant the tree.The Hebrews have a saying, “ That he is not“ a man that hath not a wife." Though theyclimb too high a bough, yet it is to be fearedthat such flesh is full of imperfection, that isnot tending to propagation : Though man alonemay be good, yet, ‘ It is not good that manshould be aloneWhich leads me from theSubject to the Predicate, ‘ It is not good.’Now, it is not good that man should be in asingle condition on a threefold consideration.1. In respect of sin, which would not else beprevented : Marriage is like water, to quenchthe sparks of lust’s fire. 1 Cor. vii. 2. ‘ Never¬theless, to avoid fornication, let every one havehis own wife,’ &c Man needed no such phy¬sic when he was in perfecthealth.—Temptationsmay break nature’s best fence, and lay its para¬dise Waste ; but a single life is a prison of un ¬ruly desires, which is daily attempted to bebroken open. Some, indeed, force themselvesto a single life, merely to avoid the charges of.a married state ; they choose rather to live intheir own sensuality, than extinguish those•flames with an allowed remedy : ‘ It is betterto marry than to burn ; to be lawfully coupled,^han to be lustfully scorched. It is best tp fet'dthese flames with ordinate fuel. :i2. It is not good in respect of mankind,which then would not be propagated. The.Homan historian, relating the ravishing pf the-Sabine women, excused them thus, “ Without'‘them, mankind would1 faiPTrbm'the o.-.rtb,8“ and perish." Marriages do turn mutabiHtyinto the image of eternity : it springs up newbuds, when the old are withered. It is agreater honour for a man to be the father oTone son, than to be the master of many ser¬vants. Without a wife, chiidren cannot behad lawfully ; without a good wife, childrencannot, be had comfortably. Man and woman,as the stock ^nd the scion, being grafted lamarriage, are trees bearing fruit to the world.Augustine says, “ They are the first link of“ human society, to which ail the rest are“ joined.” Mankind had long ago decayed,and been like a taper fillen into the socket,if those breaches which are made by mortalitywere not repaired by matrimuny.3. It is not good in regard of the church,which could not then have been expatiated.Where there is on generation, there can beno regeneration, Nature makes us creatures,before grace makes us. phristians. Ifthc loinsof men had been less fruitful, the death of Christ,would have been less successful. It was awitty question that one put to him-that said,“ Marriage fills the earth, but virginity tills,‘ the heavens How can the heavens be fullif the earth be empty ? Had Adam lived ininnocency without matrimony, there wouldhave been no servants of God in the Churchmilitant, nor no saints with God in the churchtriumphant. But 1 will not sink this vessel‘ ^ by the over-burthen of it, nor press this truthto death, by laying too great a load upon itsshoulders. There is one knot which I mustuntie, before I make a farther progress, 1 Cor.V9Vtt. 1. “It is good for a man not to touch awoman.” Do ail the Scriptures proceed outof the same mouth ? And do they not all speakthe same truth ? The God of unity will notindite discord : and the God of verity cannotasert falsehood. If good and evil be contraries,how contrary then are these Scriptures ?—Either Moses mistakes God, or Paul mistakesMoses, about the point of marriage. To whichI -shall jpve a double answer. [1. There is a public and a private good.In respect of one man, it may be good not totouch a woman ; but in respect of all, so “ It“ is not good that man should be alone.”2. Moses speaks of the state of men created,Paul of the state ofman corrupted : Now, that-which by institution was a mercy, by corrup¬tion may become a misery ; as pure water istainted by running through a miry channel,or as the sun-bearhs receive a tincture byshining through a coloured gla^s. There isno print of evil in the world, but sin was thestamp that made it. They that seek nothingb ut weal in its commission, will find nothingbut wo in the conclusion. Which leads mefrom the solitariness of the condition.” ‘^lao“ alone.” to the suitableness of the provision,*> 1 will make an help-mate for him.”In which you have two parts: 1. The Agent,“ I will make.” '2. The Object: A. help.”"1. The Agent, “ I will make.” We can¬not build -a house without tools, but the Tri¬nity is at liberty. To God's omniscience thereis nothing impos.ibie. V/e work by hands,10without; but he works without hands. He thatmade man meet for help, makes a mept-helpfor man. Marriages are qonse.nted above, butconsummated below, Prov. xviii. i22.—Thoughman wants supply, yet man cannot supply hiswants. James i, 17. ‘ Every good and perfectgift comes from above/ &c. A wife, thoughshe be not a perfect gift, yet she is a good gift.These beams are darted from the Sun of righte¬ousness. Hast thou a soft heart ? It is of God sbreaking. Hast thou a sweet.wife ? She is ofGod’s making. Let. me draw up this doubleapplication.1. When thou layest out for such a good oaearth, look up to the God of heaven; let himmake thy choice for thee, who made his choiceof thee. Look above you, before you, aboutyou ; nothing makes up. thq happiness of amarried condition, like the holiness of a morti¬fied disposition : account not those the mostworthy that are the most wealthy. Art thoumatched to tlte Lord ? Match in the Lord.—rHow happy,are such marriages, where Christis at the- wedding ! Let. none but those whohave found favour in God’s eyes, find favour inyours,2. Give God the tribute of your gratulationfor your good companions. Take heed ol pay¬ing your rent to a wrong landlord : when youtaste of the stream, reflect upon the spring thatfeeds it. Now thou hast four eyes for thy spe¬culation, four hands for thy operation, tour tcetfor thy abulation, and four shoulders for thysustcutatkin,. What the sin against the Holy.yf 'r<£11Ghost is, in point of divinity, that is unthank-fulness, in point of morality, an offence un¬pardonable. Pity it is, but that moon shouldbe ever in an eclipse, thm will not acknow¬ledge her beams to be borrowed fr«im the sun.He that praises not the giver, prizes not thegift. And so I pass from the Agent to theObject, “ A help.”She must be so much, and no less ; and somuch, and no more. Oiir ribs were not or¬dained to be our rulers. They are not madeof the head, to claim superiority ; but out ofthe side, to be content with equality. Theydesert the Author of nature, who invert theorder of nature. The woman was made forthe man’s comfort, but the man was not madefbr woman’s command. Those shoulders,aspire too high, that content not themselveswith a room below their head. It is betweena man and his wife in the house, as it is be¬tween the sun and the moon in the heavens,when the greater light goes down, the lesserlight gets up ; when the one. ends in setting,the other begins in shining. The wife may bea sovereign in her husband's absence, but shemust be subject in her husband’s presence.—As Pharaoh said to Joseph, so should the hus¬band say to his wife, Gen. xii. 40. “ Thou shalt“ be over my house, and according to thy >vordw shall all my people be ruled, only in the“ throne will I be greater than thou.” Thebody of that household can never make anygood motion, whose bones are out of place.The woman must be a laelp to the man in12these four things : 1. To his piety. 2. Tehis society. . 3. To his progeny, 4. To hisprosperity, To his piety, by the ferventnessof her excitation. To his society, by the frag-rantness of her conversation. To his progeny,by the fruitfulness of her education. To hisprosperity, by her faithful preservation.1. To his piety, by the ferventness of herexcitation, 1 Pet. ii. 7. Husband and wife,should be as the two milch kine, which werecoupled together to carry the ark of God; oras the two cherubims, that looked one uponanother, and both upon the mercy-seat ; or asthe two tables of stone, on each of which wereengraven the laws of God. In sorae familiesmarried persons are like Jeremiah’s two bas¬kets of figs, the one very good, the other veryevil ; or like fire and water, whilst the oneis flaming in devotion, the other is freezingin corruption. There is a two-fold hindranceof holiness : 1. On the right side. 2. On theleft. On the right side ; when the wife wouldrun in God’s way, the husband will not let hergo, when the fore horse in a team will notdraw, he wrongs all the icst ; when the gene¬ral of the army forbids a march, all the soldiersstands still. Sometimes on the left: How didSolomon’s idolatrous wife draw away bis heart,from heaven ? A sining wife was Satan’s firstladder, by which he scaled the wall of Paradise,and took away the fort-royal of Adam’s heartIViMTi him. Thus she, that should have beenthe help of his flesh, was the hurt of his faith,his nature's under-proper, became his grace’s13| underminer ; and she that should be a crownon the he^d, is a cross on the shoulders.—The wife is often to the husband, as the ivy isto the oak, which draws away his sap from him.2. A help to his society, by the fragrantnessof her conversation. Man is an affectionatecreature ; now the woman’s behaviour shouldbe such towards the man, as to require hisaffection by increasing his delectation ; thatthe new-born love may not be ruined beforeit be rooted. A spouse should carry herselfso to her husband, as not to disturb his love byher contention, nor to destroy his love by heralienation. Husband and wife should b§ Hkqtwo candles burning together, which makesthe house more lightsome : or like two fragrantflowers bound up in one nosegay, that aug¬ments its sweetness ; or like two well-Kinedinstruments, which sounding together makethe more melodious music. Husband and wife,what are they but as two springs meetingsand so joining their streams, that they makebut one current ? It is an unpleasing spectacleto view any contention in this conjunction.3- To bis progeny, by the fruitfulness ofher education ; that so her children in the flesh,may be God’s children in the spirit, 1 Sam. i. II.Hannah she vows, if the Lord will give hera son, she. would,give him to the Lord, to servehim. A spouse should be more cat'pfiil of hejrchildren s breeding, than she should be fearfulof her children's hearing. Take heed, lestthese flowers grow in the devil’s garden j 1 hough you bring the m out in corruption, yet14do not brin" them up to damnation. Thoseare not mothers, but .monsters, that whiist theyshould be teaching their children the way toheaven with their lips, ‘are'leading them theway to hell with their lives. Grftod educationis the best livery you can leave them living; and’it is the best legacy you can leave them dying.Vrm let out your cares to make them great,O lift up your prayers to make them good, thatbefore you die from them, you may see Christlive in them. Whilst these twigs are green andtender, they should be bowed towards God.—Children and servants are in a family, as pas¬sengers are in a boat; husband and’ wife, theyas a pair of oars, to row them to their desired’haven. Let these small pieces of timber behewed and squared for the celestial building.By putting a sceptre of grace into their hands,you will set a crown of glory upon their heads.4>. A help to his prosperit}', by her faithfulpreservation, being not a wanderer abroad, buta worker at home. One of the ancients speaksexcellently;- She must not be a field-wife,like Dinah v nor a street wife, like Thamar;nor a window-wife, like Jezabel. Phihleas,when he drew a woman, painted her under asnail shell; that she might imitate that littlecreature, that goes no further than it can car¬ry its house upon its head. How many wo¬men are there; that are not labouring Bees,but idle drones ; that take up a room in thehive, but bring no honey to it; that-arc mothsto their husbands’ estates, spending when the y/15should be sparing r As the man’s part is, toprovide industriously, so the woman’s is to pre¬serve discreetly ; the one must not be- careless¬ly wanting, the other must not be causelesslywasting; the man must be seeking with dili¬gence, tlie woman must be saving with pru¬dence. The,cock and hen both sbrtfrte toge¬ther in the dust-heap, to pick up something forthe little chickens. To wind up this on a shortbottom. ,»<■, •y;^ • - >, l ikT v li] 'i'JFiii b.l’aW MO ?>i 'I1. If the woman be a help to the man, thenlet not the man cast dirt on the Woman.niorui >1 ■ i,/; >;’bacf 1Secundus being asked his opinion of a wo¬man, said, ‘ Viri naufvagium, domus tempestas,quietus impedimentum, &c. But surely hbwas a monster, and not a man; fitter for a tombto bury him, than a womb to bear him. Somehave styled them to be like clouds intthe sky ;Like motes in the sun : Like snuffs ih the can¬dle : Like weeds in the garden. But it is notgood to play the butcher with that naked sex,that hath no arms but for embraces. A preachershould not be silent for those who are silencedfrom preaching : Because they are the weakervessels, shall they.be broken all to pieces?—Thou that sayest women are evil, it may be thy ex¬pression flows from thy experience ;■ but I shallnever take lhat mariner for my pilot, that hathno better knowledge than ll»e spliting of hisown ship. Wilt thou condemn the frame ofall, for the faultfOf one? As if it were truelogic, because some are evil, therefore noneare good. He hath ill eyt^s, that disdains allIdobjects. To blast tliv helper, i;s to blame thyMaker. In a ward, wy, took our rise fromtheir bowels, and may take out rest in, their,bosoms.2. the woman to be a help to the man ?Then jlot^the man be a help to the woman.What -makes some debtors to be such ill pay*masters, but because they look at what is ow¬ing to them, but not at what is owing by them.If thou would* have thy wife’s reverence, lether have thy respect. To force a tear fromthis relation, is that which neither hefits thehusband’s authority to enjoin, nor the wife'sduty to. perform. A wife mast not be sharply.4fiVen, but greatly dntwh. Compassion maybend her, but compulsion will C?ef»k oe?.-—Husband and wife should act towards eachother with consent, not by constraint. Thereare faup things wherein tlfe husband is a meet-help to the wife :l- In his protaction of her from injuries.It is well observed by one, that the rib ofwhich woman was made, was- taken from un¬der his arm : As the use of the arm is to keepoff blows from the body, so the office of thehusband is to ward, off'blows from the wife.The wife is the husband* treasury, and thehusband the wife’s armoury. In darknesshe should be her sun for direction ;, in dangerhe should be her shield for protection.2. In his providing for her necessities.—The hpsband must communicate maintenanceto the wife, as the head conveys influence to-the members; thou must not be a drone, and.17the a drudge. A man in a married estate,is like a chamberlain in an inn, there is knock¬ing for him in every room. Many personsin this condition, waste thai estate in luxury,which should supply their wife’s necessity :They have neither the.faith of a Christian,nor the love of a husband! It is a sad spectacleto see a virgin sold with her own money untoslavery, when services are better than mar¬riages ; the one receives wages, whilst theothers buys their fetters,3. In his covering of her infirmities. Whowould trample upon a jewel because it is fal¬len in the dirt ? or throw away a heap of wheatfor a little chalf? or despise a golden wedge,because it retains some dross ? These ro:-eshave some prickles. Now husbands shouldspread a mantle of charity over their wivesinfirmities. They be ill birds that defiletheir own nests. It is a great deal betteryou should fast, than feast yourselves upontheir failings. Soine husbands arc never well,longer than they are holding their fingers intheir wife’s-sorcs. Such are like crows, thatfasten only upon carrion. Do not put out thecandle because of the snuff. Husbands andwives should provoke one another to love;and they should love one another notwith¬standing of p"©v(ocalion. ■ Take heed of pois¬oning those springs fromwrhenctj the streamsof your pleasure flows.4. By his delighting in her society : a wifetakes sanctuary not only in herihusband’s housebat in bis heart. The tree' of love shouldgrow up in the family, as the tree of life grew18up in the garden. They that.choose their love,should love their choice. Tiiey that marrywhere they affect not, will affect where theymarry not. Two joined together without loveare but tied together to make one another mi¬serable. And so I pass to the last stage of thetext, “ A help-meet.’h“ A help,'’ there is her fulness; “A moet-help.” there is her fitness. The angels weretoo much above him; the inferior creaturestoo much below him; he could not step up to theformer, nor could he stoop down to the latter;the one wns out of his reach : the other wasout of his race; but the woman is a parallelline drawn equal with him. Meet she mustbe in three things.1- In the harmony of her disposition Husband and wife should be like the imagein a looking-glass, that answer* in all proper¬ties to the face that stands before it; or likean echo, that returneth the voice it receivelii.Many marriages are like putting new wineinto old bottles. An old man is not a meet-help for a young woman ; He that sets a greyhead upon green shoulders, hath one foot inthe grave and another in the cradle. Yet howmany time* do you see the spring of youthwedded to the winter of old age ? A youngman is net a meet-help ier an old woman ;raw flesh is but an ill plaister for rotten bonesi.He that in his non-age marries another in herdotage, his lust hath one wife in possession,Jaut his love another in reversion.2. In heraldry of her condition. Some of■19junctions, that it is against their laws for theour European nations are so strict in theircommonalty to couple with the gentry.—It waswell said by one, ‘ If the wife be too much above,her husband, she either ruins him by her vastexpenses, or reviles him with her base reproach¬es : if she be too much below her husband, ei¬ther her former condition makes her too gener¬ous, or her present mutation makes her too im-perious:’ Marriages are styled matches ; yetamongst those many that are married, how feware there that are matched! Husbands andwives are like locks and keys, and rather breakthan open, except the wards be answerable.3. In the holiness of her religion. IF adul¬tery may separate a marriage contracted, ido-latory may hinder a marriage not perfected,—Cattle of diveis kinds were not to ingender,2 Cor. vi. 14. “ Be not unequally yoked,” &c.It is dangerous taking her for a wife, who willnot take God for a husband. It is not meetthat one flesh should be of two spirits. Isthere never a tree thou likest in the garden,but that which bears forbidden fruit ? Thereare but two channels in which the remainingstreams shall run : 1. To those men that wantwives, how to choose them. tJ. To those wo¬men wtiohave husbands, how to use them.i. To those men that want Moves, how tochoose them. Marriage is the tying of sucha knot that nothing but death cun unloose,—Common reason suggests so much, that weshould be long a-doinjj that which can but oncebe done. Where one design hath been graveled20syin the sands of delay, thousands have been spliton the rock of precipitance. Hash adventuresyield little gain. Opportunities are not liketides, that when one is past, another returns,but yet take heed of flying without your wings:you may breed such agues in your bones, thatmay shake you to your graves. 1. Let mepreserve you from a bad choice. 2. Presentyou with a good one. To preserve you froma bad choice, take that in three thingss.—1. Choose not for beauty. 2. Choose not fordowry, 3. Choose not for dignity. He thatloves for beauty, buys a picture. He thatloves for dowry, makes a purchase. He thatleaps for dignity, matches with a multitudeat once. The first of these is too blind to bedirected. The second, too base to be accepted.The third too boid to be i ■ spected. i. Choosenot by your eves. 2. .Choose not by your hands.3. Choose not by your cars.1. Choose not by your eyes, looking at thebeauty of the person. Not but this is lovelyin a woman.; but that this is not all for whicha woman should be beloved. He that hadthe choice of many faces, stamps this charac¬ter upon them all, “ Favour is deceitful, and“ beauty is vain.” The sun is more brightin a clear sky, than when the horizon is cloud¬ed ; but if a woman’s flesh hath more of beauty,than her spirit bath of Christianity, it is likepoison in sweet meats, most dangerous, Gen.vi. 2. “The sons of God saw the daughters of“ men, that they were fair.” One would havethought that they should rather have lookedTor grace in the heart, than for beauty in the21,!j ■II1Iface: take care of ifinmgat thefiurest-sigr^s; the»« an hath black ftesli micer her white fea¬thers.2. Choose uoi by your hands for the boun¬ty ot the portiou. When Cato’s daughter wasasked, 'why she did not inart^ ? she thus re¬plied, Hhe could hotefind the man that lovedher person above her portion. Men love cu-rioGs pictures, but they would have them setin golden frames. Some are so degenerate,as to think any good enough, who’ have butgoods enough. Take heed, for sometimes thebag and baggage' go together. The personsi}quid bo a figure, and the portion a cypher,which added to her", advances the sum, butalone signifies nothings When Themistocles‘.was to marry his daughter, two snitors courtedher together,' the one rich', and a idol; theother wise, but pat) r; and befit g demanded, whichof the two he had rather his daughter shouldhave?' he drlswered, “ Msllem virum sine“ pecuni, &co 1 liad rather she should have a“ man without money, than money without a“ ihan.”3. Choose'not. by your ears, for the digni¬ty of her parentage* A good old stock maynourish a fruitless branch. There are manychildren who are not the blessings, but theblemished of their parents-, they are noblydescended, but ignobly minded: Such wasAurelius Antoninus, of whom it was said, thathe injured his country bf nothin?-, but beingthe fother of such a child. TV - ar > ia.-.ylow in their decents, that are ie. h .Heirdeserts: Such as the cobler’s son, v. lio r/ ewS'22to be a famous captain ; when a great personupbraided the meanness of his original, “ My“ nobility, saith he, begins with me, but the“ nobilty ends with thee.” Piety is a greaterhonour than parentage. She is the best gentle¬woman that is heir of her own deserts, and notthe degenerate offspring of another’s virtue.—*To present yon with a good choiee in threethings :1. Choose such a one as will be a subject toyour dominion. Take heed of yoking your*selves with untamed heifers.2. Choose such,:a one as may sympathizewith you in, your affliction. Marriage is justlike a sea-voyage; he that enters into this ship,must look to meet with storms and tempests,1 Cor. vii. 20. “ They that marry, shall havetrouble in the flesh.” Flesh and trouble aremarried together, whether we marry or no;now a bitter cup is too much to be drunk byone mouth. A heavy burthen is easily carried,by assistance of other shoulders. Husband andwife should neither be proud flesh, nor deadflesh. You are fellow-members, thereforeshould have a fellow-feeling. While one standssafe one the shore, the other should pity himthat is tossed on the sea. Sympathy in suffer¬ing, is like a dry house in a wet day. .1 .5. Choose such a ond as may be serviceableto your salvation. A man may think he hatha saint, when he hath a devil; but take heed ofa harlot, that is false to thy bed ; and of a hy¬pocrite, that is false to thy God.2. To those women who have husbands, howto use them. In two things,*31. Carry yourselves towards them withobedience. Let their power command you,that their praise may commend you. Thoughyou may have yujr husband’s heart, yet youshould love his will. Till the husband leavescommanding, the wife must never leave obey¬ing. As his injunctions must be lawful, soher subjection must be loyal,2. With faithfulness. In creation, Godmade not one woman for many men, or manywoman for one man. Every wife should beto her husband, as Eve was to Adam, a wholeworld of women ; and every husband shouldbe to his wife, as Adam was to Eve, a wholeworld of men. When ^ river is divided intomany channels, the mane current starves.To conclude, Good servants are a greatblessing; good children a greater blessing ; buta good wife is the greatest blessing j and sucha help let him seek for her th,\t wants one, lethim sigh for her that hath lost one, let himtake pleasure in her that enjoys one.Where there is nolhing but a picture ofvirtue, or a few .shadowy qualities that maysubsist without any real excellency, death willhide thepi for ever In the night of despair.The blackness of d irkness will close upon thenaked and wandering ghost; whilst its loath¬some remains are consign’d to oblivion andputrifaction in the prison of the grave, withthe prospect of a worse doom hereafter. Butwhere there is a living image of true goodnessbegun in this state, death will deliver it withsafety into the finishing hand of Etc rnity, t«be produced with every mark of honour in (the open view of heaven ; where its now mor¬tal partner, rescued from the dishonours ofthe dust, and brightened into the graces ofeternal youth, shall rejoin it in triumph, topuffer the pangs of separation no more. Everlasting Jehovah ! what a crown of joywill it confer upon the preacher in that day,if this little service shall be rewarded withthe inflection of having contributed to the 1salvation or improvement of any of these young 1persons 4hom he now addresses! If ever thine |ear was open to my cry, hear me, O Lord !hear me in their behalf. What cannot thySpirit perform, perfomr'by the weakest hand ?May that Spirit “ seal them unto the day of“redemption!” At that glorious period,may I meet you all amongst “ the redeemed“ of the Lord happy to see you shiningwith immortal splendour in “ the general as¬sembly, and church of the first born trans¬ported to think, that 1 shall live with you forever ; and joining in the gratulations of yourfellow angels around the throne of God, whenHe shall m the sight of all, “ clothe you with“ the garment of salvation, and cover you with“ the robe of righteousness' as a bridegroom“ is decked with ornaments, and as a bride is“ adorned with her jewels.” Amen.FINIS.I). M#c*rtcr & Co. Printers, Ajrr.