THETAY.LOR'sARLAND.In Five PARTS.ji?t I. Shewing a Talor’s Courtffiip ta A youngLady who often denied him .and abufed him be-3 ' ore (he gave confentj and how her parents threat-iscd her. .3 ft II. How her parents fent her toLondon {o flayt with a friend where fhe wrote home for the.n'Taylor. .i till. How the Taylor went toXondon marriedHier privately and got her with child and then re¬timed home without her.t IV. How her .father fent for the Taylor whene knew (he was with Gnild, hired him to takeI'tev, and be the child’s father. ’%•V. Shewing when the Taylor had-got themoney, and his marriage over told her father'low l’ve had tricked him.Priote:) fay j. Chaimcrc. & Co. Caflifettieet Afaerdctr,.» w <&> .*SI '=» tSS-'iS «» --*= <&•“■THE TAYLOR’s GARLAND.To the tune of, king William and his ForreftenfYou pretty young maids that has mourn’d mat';.years |1Go Hie chear up your hearts and dry up your teaml et not your grief and forrows take birth ; ijTor here I have bought you a garland' of mirth, tiA Garland of pleafnre a garland.of love,How a young man did happen to proveSuccessful in all his adventures of late ;When he in pnrfuit of his beautiftfl Rate.He met with fame difficult points by the way, f--3ut nevertfeiefs has he gained the day ;"t crown’d him with honour and happinefs too,ft made him amend for the Itorms he went thro’*IRichard of Reading a taylor by trade ;Wiio courted a fair and a young beautiful maid }|JWhole parents were wealthy and therefore beiidji.rle-gained her Jove with abundance of gold. ' Ifthe taylor came often to xneafure her waiftAt length with foft kiflfes her love he irobrac’d t fjHe told her a thoufand fine Rories likewite,ii.ut fhe at the fuf! did hi*calling defpife.•You are a bold impudent fellow quoth Kate, -1How dare you prefume to talk at this rate ? -IBe gone from my prefence I tell you. in brief, J :1 never intend-to marry a thief.'I am nofuch perfon the Taylor reply’d,Therefore in t^eie terms Tji not be denyld i f g„ . C 3r -)»Iy trade is fufficient a wife to maintainYbat need I to piife* for profit or gain ?’ is a great folly to brag of your trade,foa know I have a fortune and riehly array’d ;Then how do’it thou think to maintain me, I prayjy work ing for fixpcnce or twelve pence a da.y ?: hen love do not treat me with fcorn and difdain; il make no groat queflion, but you I’ll maintain,|5y jewel, and thou fhait be rkhty array’d,! help of thy fortune I’ll fet up my trade.it.does thou imagine my friends wiilbeftowineir daughter on you, they very well know,iroiir flender condition.fo poor as you are,i n certain they will not and therefore forbear.ll.’Ul not, nor cannot, be clearly deiw^d,iiou mud be my jewel, my -joy, and my bride,Ja<i.as for your parents I’ll make them agree,far joy if thou wik he. ruled by me.en kiffes had foftened her innocent ueart,en every glance did feme favour Impart,ithout more difputing fhe yielded true love,d this was kept!private three months and ak,ovr father he came for to hear at the lad •,all that in private between them had pjr g yrefore in a defperatc paflion he fell, >'.(Id faid, you mud bid your Taylor farr ,v/ell. ''ll e\£e Til difownyou for ever he err||jentiemans fou l mind to provide,. 1 *That io you m?.y flourilh ia long ss ycO'liwe.But true 3we fo deep an imprefTion hailUpon her poorTisart that in forrow (heI catrt^t forget him for bring my fpoufx’or i:e Is my dear jewel by iacrcd vowTKE very next time the met with 1thm told him her parents werefitarHad iolemmly voxHd-they’ll not be reccBut clearly difowns me tor brin^ theirAnd if that I offer to marry with yout herefore henSeforih I bid you adieu,■yy ilhing you,good: fortune wherever yoTiieu tears like a fountain trom her eyeif pray thee he, cheariui my .deared heAitho" they forfake thee my hands (hah.Her thee, my clear jewef, while life doJ .hope ycu fliali never have cauie to corAt p, clent I nothing enjoy.but my tradBet at -or the death of thy father he fold1 thaij i rave a-h.oufe arfd a parcel c-flam■ VV’haic'A r 1 hhve (hull be at year cemaWhater*k hey nowis*their paflion doThey cannot f°r.,’>et you perhaps we muA wnhe tijj th e heigtit of their anger'btAud then I'm j T,«e ^f’11 repknffi your A R T- IIis)sJuving diicours’d with his love for a whilst| lid both her grief and her forrows beguile •,when (Ire went home, and as fhe entered in, 'parents, declar’d with her love fhe had keen.ii could not deny it therefore they agreed,fend her away to fair London with fpeed,ive with a.coufin and hoped that (he might: get him when long (he had been from his fight'.had not been long in the city beforefeat to her love, who her charrtis did adore,ttcr which dearly unfolded her mind,td where he his amorous ^ewel might find../hich her whole hearths did underftand,[ how they (Uould privately feal up the band,kifs’d it and (aid, I’ll be foon with my dear jno friends* I have of this bleding (hail hear.LI! dr eft in apparel he polled 'away.J London’s fair city, he wa:<ed each day,ip fortunes hind favour*ftords him a-fight .i!i Kate his (wett. jewd his joy and delight.s freely went with him, and married they were,.'things were providedWith induffrious c#re>i d by her inventions fne finds out a waj,ilch night to her lodging her love to convey.PART III.'HUS he being bound for fair Reading again ,He faid here in this city thou jmxft fliii remain•( 6 )If thou with child love /hall happen to be,Say nothing of marriage, fay nothing pf me.Take courage and fufFer the fluame for a while,Thy father and thy mother I’ll foon reconcile,They’ll grant I /hall have thee without all difputSo fhall we have love ay and money to boot ■,Within four or five months (he begins for to fhoTSo large in the waift that her coat? -they did grow, iNay too fhort before and her apron ton jHer friend cried coufin what’s the matter wi’ you iAlas ! in the city thou haft done amifs,Your parents wc mull make acquainted with thisI fear that they quickly did rafted will turn, : i,When that we inform them of what yje have done 1Come tell with whom you the wanton have plaid,For ye are with child, but fliil nothing (he faid, •Butlhew’d by her vifage fqme/mall difeoment,Where to her friends ihefe lad tidings they lent.Her father by reading it bit his two thumbs,And cry’d, oh mytdaugnter 1 her mother (he come*And fays what’s the matter ? quoth he (he’s wi’ childMy honoured family now is defiled.Some (park in the city has led her affray,And now to my forrow, I rue this fad day,.That ever I fent her away from this place,Dear wife, (he has brought us to (fume and difgrac( 7 ); -le fliall have her too and Til likewlfe be bound,To give him a portion of two hundred pound.: tfay hufband fays (lie when he comes to know,Chat fhe’s half gone.and confin’d him fo.He may be crois to her all days of his life,' will not deceive him I’ll tell him fweet wife.PART IV.ey fent for the Taylor and told him the newt  And faid if my danghter ye will not refufe,tlBut freely will take her behold as I live,:;Here’s two hundred pounds as a portion I’ll give.ihrwill not take he'r with fuch trifles as that,leor I mufi: both fofter and father the brat,• And be at the charge of a midwife and nurfe,rnd twenty things more to pillage my purfe.ijler dear loving mother fhe mftantly cry’d,lilome take her and make her your honoured bride,And Til freely pay for the firft lying in,before to the world ye difcover her fin.• - (have,j hen four hundred pound with your daughter Pii,nd then PiF maintain her right gallant and brave,lo lefs than that fortune 1 tell you wUl do,uor fhe is with child and ye know not by who.r ler father reply’d 1 will make it up Viree, ‘hen do not Band fere wing and fqucezing'of fin,< is a great portion you cannot deny,/ iow therefore.be willing and free to comjHy,i i will have that fum if your datrghter 1 take,3 .nd herein before you this promife’ltnake,'( 8 )To fhew you wherein i deferve what 1 name.And if that 1 do not I (hall be to blame.Here’s one hundred pound to bring up ths child.The fecond I’llhave becaufe (he’s defil’d,The other is to clotath her and comfort herfelf.The fourth 1 will have for my love and good wjH. jIt’s vety well faid 1 will grant your requelf,’Let ail be provided and inform the prielf.And finifii the work and the word need not know*But that ye were married a twelve month ago.PART V.TT’OR privity fake for his daughter he fent,JP And they to the church immediately went, -Where they being married her fathered 1 net fail.To pay him down four hundred pound on the nail'When Richard had plac’d his money fecure.He fays to her father and mother I’m fure,The job is well done for 1 married her twice,She has not been guilty of folly nor vice.She’s clear and unfpotted from foiiy or fiiatne.For when to the city of London 1 came,1 married my jewel about fix months ago,Yet no friend 1 have of this wedding did knew.*Her father and mother were pleas’d to the heart/To hear how wifely he afted his part,Says they be but loving and kind to our child,Now all is,for^iv’n we are reconcil’d.Her father be invites all the friends far and near, 'To feaft them with fnmptuous delicate cheat,Who laugh’d at the froiick that Richard had playljlAnd now o'-ar the city he fets up his trade.FINIS.I’tinted by J. Chalmers & Co. CalUeftreec Abeukcn.