. ( '3 ) ;%Leper being raolveJ to revenge againi*.lirs rniurefs,-’ for her thin kail, no kitchen,and little bread ; f^r tho’ Hefii u-as boiled in■thg pot, none for poor Leper and his tnafler,but a little bit on Sabbaths, and all the boneswere kept, and put in the pot, to makethe broth thro' the week. Leper perceived(always when flie took off the pot, {he turnedher back to them and took out the fiefh,: and fet it on a Ihelf within her own bed ;lone night after work, he deals out a pan.Scuts a piece of fiefh out of a dead horfe, then|goes to a lime-kiln and boils it; next day|]iis mailer being from home, his landladyLnd him being in the houfe, afrec. fire hadI fet off the pot, as ufual, and taking out herijfck of jrcod beef, he goes out for fome time,land then comes in, faying, The min'.i‘! fter^s hfs is wanting you to go dire&jy':‘s and fpeak to her miftiefsAway fhe goesi^in 2.}t hallcj L^j^r runs nnd tciK€s <i\vsy herbit of good beef, and lays down his horte-flefli, and knowing {he would foon returnin a paffion and lit down with a foiTe inher cuOuon’d chair, as flie ufed, he tak-slla Sreat bigprin and flaps kjxaight up thro’I the cufhion, with its head on the chair, and'the point to her back-fidd: in fhe conies ini a rage and down file fits with a’l her weightIjpn tae prin-point, and there roars out“ Murder, murder, for fh .• was fiicket thro’r a'^e> ’ fhe neighbour* came running in.and Leper got f?.fe out. with his bit of good’.?er, leaving‘the wivesw to docior his lanc‘'ady's doup as they pleafed; he ftiUdenied thdoing of it, and his maftcr believed it tnighhappen accidentally, but the Houdie wavery often to be had, before the whole was gcherd again ; and his landlady by eating of tha.uorte-beef, took a loathing at flefh, fo Lepeand Ins tnaftergot all the beef to eat ever aftetand his landlady turned one of the kindeirmftreiies a prentice could \vi£h for.I,neighbour-wi/e on whie'There was aiper ufcd to play tricks feme times, fo£which file came and complained to his mailerand got him tsverely beaten feverai timetLeper refeived to be revenged on herone day he came to the backfide of her houft.(nobody being within hue herieif,J and toolpp a big Hone, and runs it along the roug\yrJl with all his force, which roared likthunder in the infide of t^e houfe, andwife, that file thought the houf^itnghted thwas tumbling down about her earsl Uponwhich uie ran oi\t, and fat down at a didance, ilooking when the heufe would fall dowm. tillji!her huiband cante hanic, to whoai fhe told:-the above ftory : lloiit, daft taupie, faid hethe Ifcufe will hand thtfe hurider years,f—So, by his perfuaSon, they both wcn£ intothe houfe. Leper knowing they were both in,omes back and plays the fame trick overa^aln ; which frighted the goedman alfo, fotnucln that he cried out, Run, Maggy, run,)»fof my heat pl»ys»’ piny ptfty ■. And theyt would not lodge in the houie gny more,,» till tFs tnafons convkiccd thciti of■. «ncy of the houfe.There another, neighbour who hudt" a fnarlkig curr dog,-which bit Leper’s teg :\eper telolved to be revenged on the dog»f and fo, one night he catches the dog, andcarries him to the kirk, where the rope nthe beSi hang upon thi outHtie : fo with nisgarter hs tied the dog’s ft're root to the rope,I and left him. hanging : The deg ftrug-Hng :aL get free. fet. tfte bell a-ringing, which alatmcq,S> the whole village ! and every one. crying out,'Wonderful, ffrs! wonderful, firs! the dc’it"•> is ringing the beil! Wfeea they favv tin• black colley hangnbg* lit the rope, I true nTet the Minidcr ana the* people to thenprayers But Leper rearing he would be: found out by_his garter, came to the Mini-fler’s fide, and afkod the reverend gpat?c*man, what w’as the .Matter: Indeed, my bairn.,laid he, it’s the devil ringing the^, kirk-beh.Says Leper I’ll go and fee him, for l neverfaw the de’il. The Miuiftcr cry’d, Stopthat mad laddie: But Leper ran and loofccvthe dog, crying. It’s fiuch a man's dog,which had the rope i> his teeth. They ai:‘:cried out, I he de’ii is in the dog, the de’tl| is in the dog ! and took up ftones and feii’clI poor colley, and the de’il got the blameof making the dog ring the boh. This fprejc(f 6 )• S'Leper’s fimd, for bein^ one of the vvifefl iand moft courageous taylors that was in aU !lthe kingdom ; and many (baking their heads, 1(aid, “ It was a pity he was a taylor, but I44 a captain or general of an army, as the j“ devil could not fear him,**After this, a farmer in the neighbour¬hood, hearing the fame of Leper, how hehad frighted the de’il frae being a belhman,fent for him to an ale-house, and drank withhim %rery heartily, and told him, that he wasiadly born down with the fpirit of jealoufyagainft his wife, on fufpicion of being toofree with a fervant-Iad Hie had before, andif he would keep it fecret, and icarn himhow to find it out, he v?6uld give his mothera load of meal; to which Leper and himagreed, and he gave the poor fuppofed cuckoldinflructions how to behave. So home he g'iesand.feigns himfelf to be very fick, and every<day wnrfe and worie : taking death to him,be called for bis three finall children, bleffednhero, and.charged his wife not to marry untilLis children could do fomething for them-Lives: This hypocritical woman takes theroaring, A-ha, marry! (he would never marry iNo, no, there (hall never man ly by my fide,nor kifs my lips after thee, my lamb Johnny.Then he acted the dying man as well as pof-■fibly he could j the neighbours were called in,tc and he’s fair o’erfeen,” as the old fayingis, “ before good neighboursthe forrowful( 7 ) ; •widow made a Tad lament* wrung Ler hands,and tearing her hair,—the reverend womenHanding around, began to drefs the corpfe,rfldng her tor a fliirt: “ Ay, ay,” faid (he.he has twa new linen {ark?,, and there han au'd ane in the bottom of the kift, it‘s r.ae bodyican wear, juft take it, ony thing“ is g?od enough for the grave,” Well, faidthey, we muft have fome linen for a wind¬ing ftieet. “ A-weci, co’ fhe, I hae twa cuto’ linen in the kift, but their is a pair o*au!d linen flieets, hol’d in the mids, may“ do well enough, 1‘ had need to be carcfu’li Vm a poor Widow the day, wi’ three inaa*T. V'^hns,” A-weel, the corpfe is drefs'd, andlaid en the top of a big cheft, while the neigh¬bours fat by her condoling her misfortune, andordering how the funeral raiftns were toprovided. Said one, the coflin muft be feenabout firft: *• Ay, ay, faid (he, he has fomo<£ new deals in the barn; that he bought tomake a bed o’, but we’ll no break them ;c; there is the auld barn-door and the caff kill{ wifi do well enough, for ony thing’s good“ enough to gang to the grave. But O, co’fhe, fend for Sandy, my honeft auld fervant,“ and he’ll fee every thing right done; I’ll“ tell him where he’ll get filler to do onyc: thing wi’; he’s the lad that will not fee mewrang’d ” Then Sandy come? wrying his.face and rubbing his eyes, “ O Sandy, Sandy,4' there is a fad alteration here 1” and ba-a-aIke cries like a bitten calf! “ O firs! will( 8 )ye gang a* butt the houfe, till I tell Sandy!what to do?*Butt they go, and there ihcfell a-bifiing of Sandy, and ' laid, “ Now,my dear, the auld channering ghaift is awa’,and we’ll get cur will o’ ither; mind to beas hairing of every, thing as ye can. tortncu kens it’s a' thy ain. But the corpfe’sfiller and feme other people came in, andben they came to fee the corpfe ; lifts j.becloth from off his face, and feeing him allin a pour of. fweat, faid, Hegh, he is a boniiycorp, and a lively colour! When he could,no longer contain to carry on the joke, butup he got ainongft them. A deal of thepoepls ran for it, and his wife cried out,O my dear, do ye ken me ? Ay, ye bafejade and whore, better*than ever I did.—-Up he jumps to the floor, and gets his ftaff;.runs after Sandy, and catches him in a fielda little from the houfe; gives him a heartybeating, never telling him,for what; returnsto the houfe, ate and drank with his filtersand neighbours who had come to fee his.corpfe. Poor Sandy went home with a fidn-ful of terror, and a forting of fore bones;took a fore fever, and died in a few daysafter.—So he got quit of his cockier, andLeper’s mother get her meal.Leper’s mother was a careful induftriouswife, but as the by-word is, A workingmother makes a daly daughter ; and fo ithappened here, for fhe had twa idle, glakctv ■ ;c’fluts of daughters, that would do nothingbut iy in their bed in the morning,, tilt, asthe faying is, The,fun was like to burn :thjLht k their backhdes. the old womanbeing at this time bufy bleaching feme cloth,was very early at work in the morning:*, andLeper’s patience was worn out with thelazinefs of his two fillers, and he rcfolvcd toplay a trick on them, for their reformation :So he goes and gets a mortcloth and fpreadsit upon the bed above them, ajpd fends thedead-bell thro’ the town, inviting the peopleto his fifters’ burial the next day, at fourcVlvck fcficrnoon, for they had cried fuclderdf.'This brought all the neighbour-wives in,who one after another lifted the mortcloth*and faid, with a great figh, 1 hey’re goneto their reft, a fudden call indeed! Theiraunt hearing of this fudden news, camerunning in ail hafte, and coming through thagreen where their mother, was at work,who was Ignorant of the*ftory, the cries out,Fy upon you, women, fy upon you.! What’sthe matter, fifter ? fays the,mother. Saysthe aunt, l think you may let your workHand for ae day, when your daughters arelying corple.— My bairns corpfe'"fays fhe j1 am fure they went to bed hail and fiar laftnight. But I tell you, fays the ither fitter,the dead-bell has been through the town,wanting the folk to the burial! Then thenn ther cried out, O the villain ! O thew in, that he did no,t fend me word! So{ 10 )'J.ty b« fh ran j and (he mother, Asfenn as ilioentered the ht uie, Hies into the bed, crying,O rry bairns, my dear bairns! On which!• he Cuts . ires up in 3 conflercaticn, to the;grert fupriae of the beholders, and to the;]great diverlicn oft he whole town, and to the|great mortifications of the girls, who thought]ihame to ftt their nefes out of doors.leper and his mr.P.cr went to a gentle-man’s houfe to work, where there was a faycy jhet fe-keeper, w ho had more ignorance andjpride than good fenfe and manners; for fhefiengineered over her fellow-fitrvants in atyrannical marner; Leper refolved to mortifyher pride; fo he finds an ant’s reft, and takestheir white eggs, and grinds them to pow der,and puts tkent into the di£k that her fupperfowens was to be pur in. After ihe hadtaken her fupper, as Hie was covering thetable, the fmcck-pewder began to epefate-and file lot a great fart! Weil done, Margaret,fays the Laird. She runs away for (kame,but before file turned herfelf round, fce givesanother rail d : “ By n y fegs, fays the laird,“ Margaret, your arfe would take a caution-“ er !” Before file get out of the chamber-door, fiie lets fly another crack! then {hegoes to order her fellcw.fervant to give thej.aird his fupper, but before ihe could givethe neceifary directions, ihe gave fire again !which £et them all a-laughing ; {he runs to aroom by her fed, and there Ihe played away( M )Ler oce gun battery To faft, as fhe bad been,lleging the Havannah. Tbc Laird and theLady came to hear the fun, and were like tofplit their fide.' at proud Maggy’s canncnad---ing. So next morning fhe left the place,to the great joy of her fellow-fervant?.The end of the First Fart*P/iRT II.I *Landlady became very haifhto his mailer, and very often abufed himexceeding fore, with both tongue and hands,and always chided upon him for Pome moremoney, and to have all the money in herkeeping, which vexed Leper very much.It fo happened one day, after the taylor,had got a hearty drubbing with tongue andtongs, that he pouchM his thimble, and wasgoing to make a Queen of her 1 When Ikefaw that, fhe cried out,O will ye leave me,tl a poor, tender, dying woman 1” But Leperknowing the caufe of her curfed ill nature,better than his mafter did, advifed him toiake her, 6n a fine day, about a mile out ofthe town, and give her a walk, and he wouldflay at home, and lludy a remedy for herdifbrder Awa’ they both went, but asfhe was always complaining of her health,and that fhe was very weak, fhe cry’d oui( 12 )Ircquently, O it is a crying fin, to take aidwoman in my condition out o’er a door..]-lining tbfir abfence. Leper goes and fearch- •e.5 her bed, and below the boiiier he gets i. botde of rare whifky, of which he takes ;ja hearty pull, and then pifies in it. to make :it up again : gets a halfpenny worth of fnuff, Ifj.id puts iv in. alfo, fliakes all together, andthen lets it in its place again. Home theycame a,gain* and fhe was as exceedinglyoi ireued as a woman could be, andcry'd out.It was a horrid thing to take her out o’ aJ.ioufs. I he I ay lor feeing lijsj'fo bad, thought [jthe wonin have - died, and ran as fail as he !could, and brought her a dram ; but fhe, laher hyppcrify, pretended five could not take it,and dedred him to help her to her bed.—intoher bed he lays her; and he was not well jgone, until fhe fell to her bottle, taking twoor three hearty gluts: then fhs roars out .Vlur-der, for (he was poifoned, fhc was poifored!docking and purging began, and the neigh¬bours were cahed in dhe leaves her blood• n poor T.eper, and tells hew fuck an hen,eftwoman brought her ae bottle as another wasdone, and the murdering lown had dole it,and pm in a bottle ofpoifon inilead of it.—~heper took to his heels, but was puriued andcarried be for ova juftice 'of Peace, where hevoid what he had done, which made thejollies laugh heartily at the joke, and thetaylor’s. wife was well purged, both from herIViarned.' (tekneis,, lazinefs, and ctirfed ill-( ‘3 )nature, for always when {he began to curlher nofe for the future., the taylor had nomore to fay but, O Maggy, Maggy, mindthe bottle!Leper was working whh a mafter taylcrin Glafgow, woo hungered his men: Andone morning juft as the breakfaii was feton the table, in comes a gentleman to tryon a fait of clothes ; the mailer being obli¬ged to rife, delired the lads to fay the grace| themfelves; every one refilling it, and put it1 to his neighbour, till Leper tc-ok it upotlhim, and faid as fodoyrs, with an audible'voice, that the ft ranger gentleman mightoverhear him : Olv hoch* we are a parcelof poor beaftly bodies, and we’re as beaftlyguided ; if we do not work, we get nothingto czt i yet we are always eating, and al¬ways frettiiigj fidging and ha?t*faftjng islike to be our.fortune, (cartings and (crap,ings are the molt of our moutbhi's:, wewould fain thank thee for thy fulnefs, if> ever it were fo; but the reft of our benefar-; iors are not worth the acknowledging.—-Hech hey. Amen.” Which made the gentle-,: man laugh till he held his ftdes, and gave. Leper half a crown to drink.Leper was not long done with his appren-i ticefhip till he fet up for himfelf, and got: a journeyman and an apprentice, was cominginto a very good bu(inefs,and had he reft rained( r4 )his roguifti tricks might have done very well.He and his lads being employed to work ina farmer’s houfe, \yhere the good wife wasa great mifer, and not very cleanly in mak¬ing ready of meat and fnivel’d greatlywhen. fhe fpoke; In the morning when (hewent to make her pottage, fhe made afafhion of wafhing the pot, which by ap¬pearance, feemed to him to be amongtl thefirft pots that had been made ; then fhe fetit down before the fire, till fire went to thewell, in which time Leper looking into if,fees two great holes in the bottom floppedwith clouts, he takes up his goofe, and holdsit as high as his head, then lets it fall intothe pot, which knocked out the bottom of it.Prefently in comes the wife with the water,and pours it into the pot, w hich fet alt thefire-fide in a dam ; for fHll as fhe poured sn,it ran out: The wife being fhortTighted,or what they call fand-blind; fhe looks intothe pot, holds up both her hands, and cries,“ lhe lofh preferve me, firs! for the grip*( atween the holes is brcken.” Says Leper,the pot was old enough; but do not you ken,that ta> lot’s pottage is heavier than othermen’s? “ Indeed, lad, faid fhe, I believe“ it is fae; but they fay ye’re a Warlock,<• it’s Wednefday a’ the w'atld o’er, and a“ wofu’ Wednefday to me indeed j my pot“ might ba’e lafted me this fifty years, a fae>“ wad it e’en.” This fport diverted Leperand his lads thro’ the day j and after fupper..» ( *5 ). knowing he was to get but forue dirty bed,as the cows and the people lived all in oneapartment, he chufed rather to go home ; andknowing the moon was to rife a little aftermidnight, they fat long by the fire, and toldthem'many a fine {lory to drive away thetime, and bade the wife go and make theirI bed, to fee how it might be ; to fave candle{he made it in the dark, directly on the floorbehind where they fat, {flaking down twobottles of flraw : A calf, which chanced tobe lying on that fpot, and which the wife didnot notice, was covered up with the flraw,and the bed-clothes fpread «ver all. The■mofl of the family being gone to bed, thewife told them feveral times to go to bed alfo ;•j but Leper knowing of the calf, faid, I’d; make my bed come to me; on whigh thewife began to pray for herfeif, and ail thatwas in the houfe ; fo up he gets his elwand,and gives a flrr.ke on the bed, which cauiedthe brute to pet up. and not feerr.g whereto go, ir fell a-cry:r:g, and turning round,which fet the whole cows in the houie a roar¬ing out murder, in their own tongue! • hewife ran to the bed above the goodman, and'the whole family cried out, not knowingwhat it was, but Leper and his two ladswhipp’d the blankets of the brute, and itran in amorgft the cows unpercfivcd; thenLeper lighted a candle, and all of them gotout of bed, paid Leper for his work, andmore if he pleafed, and begged him to goawav, and take the devil with him. Sohome he went, hvt never was employed bythat wUe more.ILeper had a deal of the beft cuHomera,both In town and country. So one tone hehad occailor t > to the pan'll ot srichisaanto make a wedding fak for a gentlensan:After they were fiaifhedv they alked drink-money to his ladv which the gentleman re-fufed : Leper refoived to bz even with him ;, fo goes up to the hay loft where the groom! flsati 2Silt2%e$ hw* 2ock?.ngs, breeches andj jacket, fe^/s then?, altogethey^'aau HujIs chesifull of hay, makes a head, puts a rope aboutthe neck, and hangs it to the tree opposite tothe Laird s window, then goes to the Laird,and tells him, that his groom had hangedMcnfelf, and that if he would open his win¬dow,' he would fee him banging, -fhe Laird,flruyk with afi^r-iihtnent knew aot hew to docLeper advhes him to bury him privately.The Laird Lid he had not a lervant he couldrrutt; fo begged of Leper to do it. Leper re-i fufed, till the Laird promiled him a load ofmeal: Then Leper pulls all the hay cut of thegroom’s clothes, goes 'and gets his load ofmeal and fends it to Glafgow ; then goes tothe groom, and fays jiadiiy, Lad, thy nrafteris wanting thee. So the lad, in a hafte,runs to fee what his mafter wanted; the Lairdno (boner faw him opening the door, thanhe cry’d out. Avoid thee Satan, avoid theeS'Ttan ! The lad fays. What’s the matter, (Sir? What’s the matter ? Did not you hangyourfelf this morning ? Lord forbid ! fattlthe lad. i he Laird fays. If thou be anearthly creature, take that tankard and drink:' Which he did. Then lays he to his mafter.Leper called roe up, and faid you wanted ruein all hafte. Ho ho! fays the Laird, 1 findout the ftory now ; if 1 had 1 eper, 1 wouldrun my fword thro’ him. But Leper, beforethat, was away for Glafgow with the meal.Leper was in ufc to give his lads theirSunday’s fupoer, which obliged him to flayfrom the kirk in the afternoon, he havingneither wife nor fervant maid. So, upon aSunday afternoon, when at home cookroghis pot, John Mucklcrcheeks and James hufi-and-b!aw, two Civileers, having more zealthan knowledge, came upon him, and laid.What's the matter. Sir, you go not to the.Kirk? Leper replied, 1 am reading mybook, and cooking my pot, which l thinkis the work of necefTny Iheo fays theone to the other. Don’t anfwer the grace-lefs fellow, we’ll make him appear beforehis betters. So they took off the kail-pot,and puts a ftafr thro’ the bowls, and bears itto the Clerk’s Chamber Leper, who wasnever at a lofs for invention, goes to thePrincipal of the College’s houfe, no bodybeing at home but a lafs roatling a leg of( i8 )muttony Leper fays, “ My dear will ye sj:.>“ and bring a pint of ale, and Til turn tire“ (pit *till ye come back?” The hfs wasno fooner gone, than he run? away with theleg of mutton, which ferved his lads and himfor their fupper. When the Principal camehome, he' was neither to bin nor baud, hewas fo angry. So, on Monday, he goes andmakes a complaint to the Lord Provost, whofends two officers for Leper, who broughthim immediately. My Lord aTed him,“ How he dared to take away the Principals“ mutton?” Leper replied, “ How came“ your Civileers to take away my kail-pot ?“ I am fure there’s lefs fin in making a por-“ full of kail, than roafting a leg of mutton.“ Law-makers fhould not be law-breakers“ fo I demand juftice on the Civileers.”The Provoft afked him', “ What juftice he“ would have ? Says he, “ Make them carry“ the pot back again ; and as for the Princi-“ pal, a leg of mutton won’t make him andf‘ me fall out.” So they were forced tocarry the xpot back, and Leper caufed theboys to huzza after them in difgrace.There.was a barber which always plaguedLeper, calling him a Prick the Loufe; Leperrefolved to be even with him ; fo he goes andbuys three fheep-heads, and fends tor thebarber, and told him, that there were threeSouthland gentlemen came to his houfb,who wanted to be fiiavtd, and he alluredC l9 )him, he would receive fix-pence for each ofthem. . This good news made the (Inverfend for a dram. Leper was ftill praifingthem for quite good-natured gentlemen-—So Leper takes him to the bed where the(heep-heads lay covered, and defired him towaken them, for they would not be angry,or fay an ill word to him, the barber liftsthe covering, and feeing the (heep-hcads,runs out curfing and fwearing, and Lepercrying after him, “ Sheep-head barber.”The Barber rcfolved to be revenged onLeper, fo when he was (having Mefs J^hn,he tells him, that Leper was the drunkeneftfellow in the parifli ; fo Mefs John warnshim to the fcllion: Leper comes and fays,tc What do you want with me. Sir ? Come“ away, Leper, fays Mefs John, I hear atc bad report of you.”—“ Me, Sir! I am“ fure they were not my friends that told“ you that.”—Indeed, 1 am informed you“ are a great drunkard.—I a drunkard! you*l have not a foberer man in your parlfh:** Stay, Sir, I’ll tell you how 1 lead my life:i “ In the morning 1 take a cboppen of ale, andI “ a bit of bread, that I call my morning :—“ Lor breakfaft 1 generally take a herring and“ a chopping of ale, for I cannot fup brofeliket* nay lads; the herring makes me dry, fo ateleven hours I take a pint; at dinper another“ pint; at four afternoon my comrades and<e I join, fometimes we are a pint and fome-( <20 )times three choppens; at fup<per I take a bitof bread and cheefe and a pint, and fo I gto bed. Mefs Johij fays, Its extravagantSir, it’s exceflive drinking; fallow you thjone half of it for a quarter of a year. SayLeper, I’ll try it, Sir, and come back an>tell you. At the end of the quarter, he drawout his acconnt, and goes to Mefs John, whwas fitting with his elders in the Sefiion houfiand fays. Sir, I have a demand on you. O:me, Sir? Yes, on you. Sir. Don’t you remember, you allowed me fo much drink foa quarter of a year, and I want the moneyAm 1 to pay your reckoning, S;r ? you ailowed it, and if you won't pay it, I’ll takyou before the Provoft, The Elders advlfeihim to pay it, or he would be affronted —So f eper got the Money. When he was athe door, he fays, Sir, will ye ftand anothcquarter ? Get away, fays Mefs John, and don’trouble me. Says Leper, I’m fure you mayfor I was always two-pence to your penny,THE END OF THE SECOND PART.THEGrand Solemnity of the Taylor's 'Funeral, *WHO DAYNine Days in State on his own Shop Board.r"| HIS laylor, in his life-time defirec.1. That all thofe who came to attend hfuneral, might be handfomely entertaine( SI )with a halfpenny rell, and a pint of ale, inmemory of the many breakfafts he had madein his life-time: And furthermore defired.That thofe ttho were his neareft relationsand chief mourners, inftead of a mourning¬ring, might be prefented v/ith a Taylor’sThimble, in memory of his uwn trade, andround the rim to have this motto engraved :CHALK IS NOT SCISSARS.Round the room hang divers remnants ofblack doth of the Taylor’s own cabbaging,for he was very honeft that way, and neverj. cabbaged but a quarter cut of a yard. Atthe four corners of the room flood fourwoollen-drappers, lamenting the lofs of‘ fo.good a cuftomer, with each of them a whitewand in his hand, juft a yard long, wantingan inch, and a parchment label hanging ontheir fhoulders. with this motto :The Taylor ha: finijhed his work.And new he is gone to receive his wages.At the head of the Taylor’s coffin, floodthe good triumphant, the cabbage blazoned,and the cucumber argent. On the lid of| his ceffin was engraven, on a brafs plate,this applicable motto :r * ♦ .1 am now like an old Garment.At the foot of the coffin was the fheers' pendent, the bodkin rampant, and the thim¬ble endefed in three ermines.( ss )When the Corpfe was conveyed downflairs, each perfon was ferved decently roundwith a leaf of red cabbage, inftead of a fprigof rofeniary. Then the Corpfe was hoiflcdon the Ihoulders of fix Piece-brokers, havingeach of them this motto :The Taylor flealsy we buy. •The Pall was fupported by thofe who foldStay-tape, Buckram, and Canvas.The Corpfe was followed down Cloth-fairby thirty-fix Mafter Taylors, each havinga yard in his right hand, with a parchmentflreamer at the end of it, with this motto :We Taylors, by our art and trade,Do often mend what wrong is made.Next followed twenty-four woollen-drapers, j,two-by-two, and bearing on their breafts thismotto:We deal in Wool, but can’t forbearTo deal, alas ! fame limes in hair.Then followed the like number of But¬ton-makers, wringing their hands with thismotto:Man’s but a Batten, by my foul!The very Grave’s a But ton-hole.After thefe, followed a vaft number ofcity ricketty hopper arfed beaux, who hadbeen padded up, and made into a completegentlemen, by the deceafed limb-trimmer.( 23 )* '' A ‘ ‘ - 1 ' 4 vjJrying their watery eyes with fine cambric!*pankerchiefs, havipg the following mottomgraved on their watch-cafes:He’s gone who trade us htiman Jhapesy *And ww we muft again turn apes.But to conclude the proceffion: Laft of allFollowed a numerous crowd of journeymen^aylors, who were all flip-fhoed, their ftock-:ings about their heels, their hats off, a (keiniof thread hang carelefsly about their necks ;land their Hurt-collars were open, that theyimight have liberty to difturb their bofom-Iriends.—On their left fleeve was a cufhion,whereupon ftuck abundance of Spaniflt andWhitechapel needles. The tails of theirjwigs were matted like horfes’ manes, juftas if they had come off the (hop-board fromwork. On their left (boulders each hada long ftrip of parchment, whereupon wasthis motto written:The lice bite usy ’tis not deny’d.We bite our majlers when employ’d;And they bite all the world befide.At the bottom of Cloth-Fair, the Corpfe■was arreded at the fuit of an old herb-wo¬man, for elevenpence-halfpenfiy, which hadbeen due a long time to the hag, for cabba-i ges and cucumbers, which the deceafed hadin his life-time: Hov/ever, the journeymen"taylors manfully rcleafed the Corpfe, andafterwards marched on in ample proceflion( 24 )‘fitto tlTe houfe of one Ned Kemp, an hpntPieee-broker, where there was a fpacioii]grave dug, between a large cabbage andcucumber plant.The FUNERAL SERMON w;preached by Obadiah Backftitch, and thwords of the text were thefe:Nru> Cloth is preferable to old.After which, the journeymen taylors wer_.admitted into the hm;fe, and each of thereferved with a halfpenny roil, and a pint olale, and fo went weeping home, for the lofsof lb good a mafter.theTAYLOR’s LAST WILL.I Wilb'hnd Bequeath unto Simon Whip-ftitch, my needle and thimble; unto PeterNiggle, my Iheers and bodkin ; and unto ]Mrs. Mary Clip, my pin-cufhion, ftuck fullof needles and pins, to which I fevved awatch-chain, key, and feal, with which I uf-ed to Unit about like a crow in a gutter.FINIS.Gae, canty Book, and win a name ;Nae lytics Jer frail ding thee:Hope large efleem, ami lulling fame.For LESEli’s name will raife thee.J. Ntilfonj priatet.