OF SCOTIANSNEW AND IMPROVED SERIES,No. 41.THEVOYAGES AND TRAVELSSIN DEAD THE SAILOR.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1852.Price One Penny.1,1100 o*»e i^wsk*I83S'e r v ci if o j-:8IMDBTD Jlin 8YirOBAOiVCEB TOD IKVAEraJJIE»o •WE A VMD IJtiHOAED SEBIE^THE VOYAGESOPSINDBAD THE SAILOR.In the reign of the Caliph Haroun Alrasehid, there lived inthe city of Bagdad, a poor porter named Hindbad. One day,when the weather was hot, Hindbad was employed to carry aheavy burthen to a great distance from that part of the citywhere he lived. Being faint with the heat, and having still along way to go, he entered a street where a refreshing breezeblew on his face, and the pavement was sprinkled with rose¬water. Glad to find such a resting-place, he laid down hisload, and seated himself beside it, near to a great house.The windows of the house were open, and Hindbad was re¬galed with the smell of the richest perfumes that came fromwithin. Presently he heard a delightful concert of all kinds ofmusical instruments, mixed with the finest voices, and themelodious notes of nightingales and other rare birds. Hindbadhad never been in that quarter of the town befyre, and he felta great desire to know to whom this magnificent house be¬longed. Seeing a servant standing at the gate in a splendidlivery, he advanced towards hint, and.with great humility in-quireq the name of the master of the house,“Is it possible,” said the servant, “that you are an inhabi¬tant of Bagdad, and do not know that this is the house of Sind-bad the Sailor, who has sailed round the world !”Poor Hindbad, who had often heard of the wonderful richesof Sindbad the Sailor, and whose condition he thought was ashappy as his own was deplorable, turned away sorrowfully, andsitting down, cried aloud, “Alas! what a difference between thisfortunate man and me ! I am every day exposed to the greatestfatigues, and all the wretchedness of extreme poverty, whilehappy Sindbad profusely expends immense riches, arid leads alife of continual ease and pleasure. Oh, heavens ! what has hodone to obtain a lot so fortunate? and why am I condemned toendure so much wretchedness?”While the poor man was thus indulging his grief, a servantcame from the house, and told him that Signior Sindbad wishedimmediately to speak to him. Hindbad was greatly alarmedat this message, thinking that Sindbad had heard his lamenta¬tions, and was going to reproach or punish him; he therefore4tried to excuse himself from entering the house. Sindbad*sservant, however, would not take a refusal, because his mas¬ter’s commands had been absolute; and calling another do¬mestic to look after the goods, he led the porter into a greathall, where a large company sat round a table covered with allsorts of dainties served in dishes of silver and gold. At theupper end of the table sat Sindbad, a comely, venerable gentle¬man with a long white beard.Hindbad’s terror increased at the sight of so many people,and he hung back, till Sindbad, in the most courteous mannerimaginable, desired him to draw near; and placing him in achair on his right hand, served him from the choicest dishes,and gave him excellent wine in a crystal goblet.When the porter had made an end of Iris dinner, Sindbad3inquired his name and occupation. “My name, Signior,”said he, “is Hindbad, and I am nothing but a poor porter.”“ Well, Hindbad,” rejoined the master of the house, “ I andmy friends here are very glad to see you; hut I sent for youon account of some words I heard you utter.”“ Alas ! Signior,” exclaimed Hindbad, rising from his chair,and blushing exceedingly, “ I confess that my weariness andthe heat of the day put me out of humour, and made me speakmany indiscreet things, which I beg you to pardon.”“ My good friend,” replied Sindbad, “I am not so unjustas to be offended with you ; on the contrary, I pity your con¬dition ; and when I commanded you to be brought hither, it wasthat I might convince you I did not attain to this happy con¬dition without enduring more sufferings, and encounteringgreater dangers, than can well be imagined. Yes, gentlemen,”he added, looking round the table upon his guests, “I assureyou my difficulties were so extraordinary, that they were suffi¬cient to discourage the most covetous man from running thesame perils in pursuit of riches; and to convince you of thetruth of what I assert, I will, if you are disposed to hear me,relate the history of the extraordinary adventures I met within the course of my Seven Voyages.”This proposal was highly acceptable to the whole company ;and Sindbad having ordered a servant to carry Hindbad’s loadto the appointed place, commenced his narration as follows :—THE FIRST VOYAGE OF SINDBAD.My father dying while I was very young, and leaving me aconsiderable fortune, I fell into a course of dissipation thatinjured my health and destroyed my fortune. Having noparent to control me, and being surrounded only by profligatepersons, I continued my excesses till I fell into a fit of sickness.My riotous companions then forsook me, and I was left aloneto struggle with my diseases, and to endure the severity of re¬morse for mis-spent youth. At length I recovered from myillness; and resolving never to return to my former course ofliving, I collected together the remains of my fortune, and em¬barked with several merchants on board a ship, which we hadjointly laden with merchandise, for the port of Balsora.One day we were becalmed near a small island almost levelwith the surface of the water, and which resembled a beautifulgreen meadow. The captain ordered his sails to bo furled, andthe merchants, among whom was myself, with several officers ofthe ship, determind to carry our provisions, and dine upon thepleasant little island. While wo were in the very midst of6preparation for dinner, shouting, laughing, and had kindled alarge fire to dress our provisions, the island began to move,and at the same moment those who were left in the ship called tous to re-embark instantly, or we should all be lost, as what wehad taken to be an island, was only the back of a monstrouswhale. The nimblest sprung into the sloop; others jumpedinto the waves, and betook themselves to swimming; but formy part I was still on the back of the whale when he divedinto the sea, and had only time to catch hold of a broad pieceof wood that had been brought out of the ship to serve as atable. On this piece of wood I floated, but the current carriedme away from the ship; and the captain having received onhoard those who were in the boat, and picked up one or two ofthe swimmers, he concluded that I was lost. A favourablegale just then springing up, he pursued his voyage.I struggled to save myself all the rest of the day and thefollowing night, when happily a wate threw me against anisland. I advanced along the shore till I came to a cave,wherein I lay down and slept. When I awoke it was almostsun-set. I left my cave and came to a small plain, surroundedwith fine trees bearing all sorts of fruit; and what surprisedme most was to see a great number of beautiful young coltsgrazing together, but no traces of any other animals. I sup¬ped upon fruit, and climbed the branches of a high tree for mylodging. About midnight I was greatly astonished and alarmedto hear the sound of trumpets and drums, which seemed to passall round the island, and continued through the night; butwhen morning came, it still appeared uninhabited.I Climbed my tree again that night, and the drums and .trumpets at midnight seemed to be even louder than before.On the third day, to my great joy, a party of men landed onthe island, who were astonished to find me there. They in¬formed ine they were the grooms of king Mihrage, and that theisland upon which I was thrown was called Cassel, and belongedto tho warlike geni Degial, who visited it every night withdrums and trumpets; and that the geni being the friend ofking Mihrage, permitted him to have his young colts trainedupon the island, which contained such admirable pasture, thatthey became the swiftest and finest horses in the world ; andthat they, the grooms of the king, were sent at the expirationof every six months, to the island, to select such of the younghorses as were fit to be placed in the royal stables.The grooms carried me with them to the capital of kingMihrage, which has a fine harbour where ships arrive dailyfrom all quarters of the world. The king allowed me apart¬ments in his palace, and delighted in my conversation.One day, having walked to the principal quay, several sea¬men were busily employed in unloading a ship newly arrived.As I cast my eye on some of the bales of goods, I perceivedthem, by the marks, to be the same that I had put on boardwhen I embarked for Balsora. I also knew the captain ; andsome other persons coming from the ship instantly knew me, andI was not long in convincing the captain that I was the realSindbad, and no impostor; upon which he presented me mybales with a thousand congratulations. I offered him a part ofmy goods in requital for his probity, but this he refused.I then selected the most valuable articles out of my bales,and presented them to king Mihrage, who accepted my present,and gave mo a rich one in return. I then took leave of himand the whole court, and went on board the same ship, after Iiahad exchanged my goods for the commodities of the country,and then came to the city with the sum of a hundred thousandsequins. Here I bought slaves, fine lands, and built a greathouse and settled myself, determined to forget my past dangers,and to enjoy the pleasures of life.Sindbad then ordered the musicians to go on with their con¬cert, and when it was ended, he gave a purse with a hundredsequins to Hindbad saying, “Take this, Hindbad, return home,and regale yourself with your family to-night; but come backto-morrow, when you shall hear more extraordinary adven¬tures that have befallen me than those of my First Voyage.”THE SECOND VOYAGE OF SINDBAD.I designed, after my first voyage, to spend the rest of my daysat Bagdad ; but ere long I grew weary of a quiet life. Accord¬ingly I purchased rich commodities, and went to sea a secondtime, with some other merchants. One day we landed on anisland, almost covered with trees bearing delicious fruits.Some diverted themselves with gathering flowers, others withgathering fruits, I sat down by a stream, between two largetrees, which fonned an agreeable shade, and fell asleep. I can¬not tell how long I slept; but when I awakened, not only mycompanions, but the ship itself was gone. Nothing could ex- |cced my grief and consternation at this event.I climbed to the top of a very high tree to see if there wasany thing that could give me hopes. I perceived somethinglarge and white ; but the distance was too great to allow me to ,distinguish what it was. I therefore hastened down from thetree, and I found it as white and smooth as ivory. I walkedround it, to see if it was open on any side, but it was not; andit was impossible to climb to the top of it, the surface was sosmooth and slippery. It was at least fifty paces round, andlike a largo white bowl.On a sudden the sky became quite darkened. I looked upto see the cause, and beheld a bird of enormous size movinglike a great black cloud toward me. I recollected that I hadheard mariners speak of a bird called a Roc, so large that itcould cany away young elephants, and I concluded that the greatwhite bowl, which I so much admired, must be its egg. 1 wasright, for the bird alighted, and sat over the egg. As I per¬ceived her coming, I had crept close to the egg for shelter, sothat I had before mo one of the legs of the bird, which was aslargo as the trunk of a tree. I tied myself firmly to the leg ofthe roc with the cloth of my turban, in hopes that when sho9flew away she would carry me out of this desert island ; andhaving passed the night in this condition, the bird flew awaythe next morning, and carried me so high into the air that Icould not see the earth; and suddenly descended so swift, thatI lost my senses. On coming to myself, and finding the Rocon the ground, I speedily untied the cloth which bound me toher leg, and the bird, having taken up a large serpent in herbill, again flew away.As I paced up and down the valley, musing on my hardfortune, I observed that the ground was strewed with diamondsof a surprising large size. I took great pleasure in lookingupon them, but I saw such objects as I could not behold with¬out terror and dismay; these were serpents peeping out of theholes in the rocks.I had heard of the famous Diamond Valley, and tho strata-210gems used to get jewels from thence, by merchants throwingjoints of raw meat down into the valley. The diamonds uponwhich they fall adhere to them ; and the eagles, lured by thesmell of the meat, carry it to their nests to feed their young,when the merchants frighten away the eagles, and take thodiamonds.I picked up some of the largest diamonds I could find, whichI carefully put into a little bag, and fastened it to my girdle.I then selected tho largest piece of meat in the valley, which Itied to my waist with the cloth of my turban, and then laydown upon my face to wait the descent of the eagles. Theywere not long in coming, and one of the strongest havingpounced upon the meat upon my back, flew with me to thenest on the top of tho mountain. The merchants began shout¬ing to frighten the cables, and when they liad obliged them toquit their prey, one of them came to the nest where I was.I told them my story, and they were equally surprised at myexpedient to save myself and my courage to attempt it.Having carried me to the place where they sheltered themselves,I opened the bag, and they declared, that in all the courtswhere they had been they had never seen any diamonds ofequal size and lustre. I desired the merchant, to whose nest Ihad been carried to take as many as he pleased, but he con¬tented himself with one of the least, declaring it was ofsufficient value to make his fortune.The merchants having gathered together their diamonds, weleft the place on the following morning, and crossed themountains till we arrived at a port where we took shipping,and landed on t)ie isle of Roha, where fho trees grow that yieldcamphor. Here I exchanged some of my diamonds for othermerchandise, and from thence we set sail for Balsora, and con¬tinued my journey over land to Bagdad; and once morearrived in my nalive city. I gave great alms to the poor andlived there for some time.Thus Sindbad ended the history of his Second Voyage; andpresenting Hindbad with another purse, desired him to’returnon the following day.THE THIRD VOYAGE OF SINDBAD.Tho pleasures and comforts I now enjoyed made me forgetmy past difficulties. I was still in the prime of life, was of anactive disposition, and had a great desire to see new curiosities,so I very soon resolved upon a third voyage, and with a cargoof the richest merchandise of Egypt I once more took shippingat tho port of Balsora.11After we liad been a(; sea some weeks we were overtaken bya dreadful storm, which almost tore the vessel to pieces. Webeat about several days, and at last were obliged to cast anchorbefore an island, from which the captain had vainly endeavouredto steer. He now informed us, that this and several otherneighbouring islands were inhabited by savages, covered withhair, who would speedily attack us in great numbers; and thatif we offered to make the least resistance they would come uponus in swarms and destroy us without mercy.We soon found the captain’s information to be true; for amultitude of frightful savages, about two feet high, and coveredall over with red hair, came swimming towards us, and boardedbur ship, chattering a language of which we could not com¬prehend a word. In an instant they fopk down our sails, cut12the cable, towed the ship to land, and having made us all getout, they carried off our ship in triumph to another island.We went forward into the island on which we were landed indeep dismay, expecting nothing but death. When we had gota little way, we found a lofty palace, with a folding gate ofebony, which we pushed open and entered a spacious court,that led to a vast apartment with a porch, having on one sidea great heap of human bones, and on the other a number ofroasting spits. At this terrible spectacle our legs trembledunder us, and we fell to the ground with fear.Presently the gate of the apartment opened, and there camelout a black monster as tall as a palm tree. He had but oneeye, which was in the very middle of his forehead, and lookedlike a ball of fire. His fore-teeth were long and sharp, hisunder lip hung down upon his breast, his ears resembled thoseof an elephant, and covered his shoulders.At the sight of so hideous a giant we could scarcely keepfrom swooning, while he sat down in the porch gazing upon us.At length he advanced, and taking roe up by the skin of theneck, as I would take up a kitten, and having viewed me well,and perceived that I was nothing but skin and bone, he threwroe on the ground with disdain. He took up all the rest oneby one, and examined them in the same manner, and the poorcaptain being the fattest amongst us, fell the victim to hissavage appetite : he was presently killed, roasted, and eaten bythe dreadful monster, who then stretched himself upon a greatstone bench and fell asleep snoring louder than thunder.We passed the night in the most distressing fears imaginable.Hay being come, the giant awoke, got up, stretched himself,and went out, leaving us in the palace, which now resoundedwith our cries and lamentations. At length I cried to mycompanions in misfortune, “ Let us not waste the hours in use¬less sorrow. Let us make floats of the timber we saw on thecoast, and commit ourselves upon them to the sea. Wc hadbetter trust to the mercy of the winds and waves than continuehere, to fall one after the other a prey to the appetite of thatdevouring monster.”My advice was adopted; we hastened down to the sea shore,taking with us tools from the apartment, and laboured hard tomake our floats ready to carry us out to sea, before the giant ishould discover our purpose. We had not finished them tillthe evening, and before we could push them from the beach our ’tyrant came in search of us, and drove us like a flock of sheepbefore him to the palace. We had the anguish to beholdanother of our unfortunate comrades roasted for his supper.Our desperate situation now gave us courage to attempt some13means for our deliverance. Nine of the most resolute of us gotup very softly, and taking nine spits we held the points ofthem in the fire till they were red hot, and then thrustingthem all at once into the monster’s eye, we blinded him. Thepain occasioned him to utter a frightful scream, and hebegan to grope about with his hands to catch us, that he mightsacrifice us to his rage, but we took care to keep out of hisreach, and having sought for us some time in vain, he openedthe ebony gate, and went out of the palace howling dreadfully.We did not stay long behind him, but hastened to our floats,and only waited for day-light to embark upon them; butscarcely was the first dawn of day visible when we beheld ourmonstrous enemy approaching to the shore, led by others of thesame species. We immediately jumped upon our floats, andpushed them from the shore ; but the giants seeing us likely toescape, tore great pieces of rocks from the cliffs, and wadinginto the water up to their waists, hurled them at us with alltheir might, and instantly sunk every float but the one I wasupon, and all my companions except two were drowned.For two days we were tossed about at sea, and believed thatwe must perish for want of food if we were not swallowed up bythe waves. On the evening of the second day, however, wodrove upon an island, where we found excellent fruit and goodwater, with which wo refreshed ourselves and lay down to sleepunder the shade of the trees.We were soon awakened by the terrible hissings of anenormous serpent, who came gliding along the ground withincredible swiftness. One of my unfortunate comrades wasswallowed by him in a moment, while I and the other fled, andclimbed up into the highest tree we could find to shield our¬selves from his attack. Presently the serpent came hissing tothe root of the tree, and winding himself round the trunk,reared his head so high that he soon reached my only remainingcompanion, who sat much lower on the tree than I did, anddevoured him like the former one. I sat motionless with terror,and already more dead than alive, the monstrous creatureunwound himself from the tree and glided away.I was so exhausted for want of sleep, and had suffered sogreatly from his poisonous breath, that death seemed to memore desirable than living in such a deplorable condition, fromwhich there appeared no means of escape, and I ran headlongtowards the sea, resolving to throw myself in ; but just as I wasabout to fulfil my rash detennination, I perceived a ship in fullsail at a considerable distance. I shouted as loud as I couldhaul for help, and taking the linen from my turban, I displayedit like a flag to aWract their notice. This expedient happily14succeeded, and the captain sent his boat for me. As soon as Igot on board, the merchants, officers, and sailors gatheredround me, eager to know how I came into that desert island.I related the misfortunes of my voyage, and they testified theirjoy at my wonderful escape from such imminent dangers.When we came to an anchor at the port of Jalabat, thecaptain calling me to him, said : “ Sir, I have here some balesof goods which belonged to a merchant who sailed with mesome time since, and he being dead, I intend to dispose ofthem for the benefit of his heirs. Yon shall sell them for me,and shall be allowed the usual factorage.”I eagerly inquired the name of the owner, and to my astonish¬ment was told Sindbad.I could not hear myself named without emotion, and lookingearnestly at the captain, I recollected him to be the personwho, in my second voyage, had left me in the island where Ihad fallen asleep, and had set sail without me.“No, captain,” I exclaimed, “ I did not perish. In me youbehold that Sindbad, who escaped that and many other perils.”The captain being convinced, eagerly delivered me up the goods,and also strictly accounted with me for those he had sold.I continued my voyage with the honest captain, and soldmy merchandise very advantageously, and at length returned toBagdad with a vast increase of riches.Sindbad having finished the relation of his Third Voyage,gave another present to Hindbad, and invited him to dinnerthe next day, to hear the adventures of tho Fourth Voyage.THE FOURTH VOYAGE OF SINDBAD.Having settled my affairs, I commenced a journey over landinto Persia, and having bought a large stock of the beautifulmanufactures of that country, I loaded a vessel, and embarkedwith my goods. We had not been at sea many days when theship struck upon a rock, and soon beat to pieces. The cargowent to the bottom, and many of the merchants and seamenwere drowned.'I and a few others saved ourselves on a plank, and werecarried by the current to an island that lay before us. Havinggot safely on shore, we were presently surrounded by blacksavages, who seized us, and shared us among them.I and five of my companions were taken by one man, whogave us some herbs to eat. My,companions eat greedily; butI, being overcome with sorrow, kept them in my hand withouttasting. I presently observed that my companions lost theiri5senses, and when they spoke to me they knew not what theysaid; I threw away the herbs, resolving never to taste them.I soon understood that the savages had given us the herbs inorder to rob us of our senses, to make us very fat, and thendevour us. Accordingly I saw the cannibals eat roy comradesone after another; but I, instead of growing tat, grew morethin daily, and I fell into a languishing disorder which provedmy safety, for the savages did not think me fit to be eaten.They now entirely neglected me, and one day when they weregone into the woods, I determined to make my escape.I took a contrary way to that the savages were gone, andtravelled all night. 1 travelled in this manner during sevendays, avoiding every place where I saw habitations thatappeared to belong to savages, and living on fruit and cocoanuts, and on the eighth day I came in sight of the sea shore,where I beheld a number of white persons gathering pepper.I approached them without fear, and as I drew near theyran to meet me, and qnestioned me in Arabic as to who I wasand whence I came : I speedily satisfied their curiosity, bygiving them an account of my shipwreck and my escape fromthe savage negroes. In a few days I recovered my strength,and after they had gathered a sufficient quantity of pepper, Isailed with them to the island from whence they came. Theypresented me to their king, who was a good prince; he listenedto my adventures, gave me clothes and commanded me to betaken care of.I esteemed myself very fortunate in the kind treatment Ireceived from this generous monarch and his whole court.It appeared to me very extraordinary to see that when theking and his nobles went a hunting, they rode their horseswithout bridle or saddle. I could not forbear to question hismajesty upon the reason of his avoiding the use of bridles andsaddles. The king heard me with a look of surprise, and thenassured me he was quite at a loss to know what 1 meant, by thethings called saddle and bridle. Upon this I went to a veryskilful workman, and gave him the model of the stock of asaddle, and under my constant superintendence he made it verywell. I covered it myself with embroidered velvet; I thenwent to another mechanic, for whom I drew the pattern of abridle and stirrups. I put them upon one of the king’s horsesand presented him to his majesty, who was so delighted, thathe mounted immediately, and rode about the grounds belongingto the palace almost the whole of the day, while his ministers,the principal officers of the court, and others of the nobility,gathered round me, entreating that I would furnish them. Ireceived such magnificent presents for my saddles and bridles,that I presently grew rich.16The king one day said to me, “Sindbad, I love thee, and allmy subjects follow my example, and value thee according tothy merits. I wish to make thee one of my subjects. Thoumust marry, and settle in my dominions.He gave me one of his ladies of the court, who was young,noble, rich, beautiful, and virtuous. The marriage ceremoniesbeing over, we retired to a place belonging to my wife, wherewe lived in great harmony and contentment.Yet notwithstanding the happiness I enjoyed, I could notforbear to think of my native country, and to wish I mightbehold it once more.I had contracted a strict intimacy with one of my neighbours,and one day as I was sitting down to dinner I was informed hiswife had just died. I immediately hastened to afford him someconsolation under his misfortune. “Alasl” said he “Whatcomfort can I take who have not above an hour to live ? Itis the established laws of this country, that the living husbandshall be interred with the dead wife, and the living wife withthe dead husband. Nothing therefore can save me : every onemust submit to this law.”I went home, deeply affected, and day and night I thoughtof nothing but how to effect my escape. But while I wasforming a thousand projects to escape this evil, my worst fearswere verified—my wife fell sick and died. You may easilyjudge of my sorrow when I beheld the preparations for my ownfuneral, at which the king and his whole court, to show theirregard for me, intended to assist.The corpse, in her most magnificent apparel, was put intoher coffin, and the cavalcade began. I went next the corpse,with my eyes full of tears and my heart bursting with despair.When we arrived at the mountain I could no longer contain myanguish, and throwing myself at the feet of the king, I besoughthim in the most moving terms, to have compassion on me andspare my life. But all I said was to no effect, no one wasmoved by it; they only made the greater haste to let my wifeinto the pit, and the next moment I was put down after her inan open coffin, with a vessel of water and seven loaves. Theythen covered up the pit, in despite of my grief and cries.It was a long cave, many fathoms deep. I immediatelysmelt an insufferable stench from the multitude of dead bodiesI saw on the right and left; nay, I fancied I heard some of themsigh and groan. I lived for some days upon my bread andwater, which being all spent, I prepared for death.Having wandered very far into the cave, I lay down on theground, wishing only for a speedy end to my misery. On a suddenI heard something walking and panting very hard, close beside17mo; I started up, upon which the thing panted still harder,and ran away. I pursued it so long, that at last I saw aglimmering light that came from a hole in the rock, just largeenough for a man to get out at. I crept through the hole,and found myself on the sea-shore. I leave you to judge of theexcess of my joy. When I recovered from my surprise, Iperceived I had been pursuing a sea monster.I fell on my knees to thank God for my deliverance, andhaving feasted on some shell fish I found on the shore, I re¬turned to the cave, and groped about among the coffins for allthe diamonds, rubies, pearls, gold bracelets, and rich stuff Icould find. These 1 carried to the sea shore, and tying themup into bales, with the cords that let down the coffins, I laidthem on the beach, waiting till some ship should sail by.In two days a ship came out of the harbour, and passed by18th.it part of the coast. I made a signal with my turban, andthey sent a boat to take me on bond. I told the mariners Ihad been wrecked, and had just been able to get on shore withthe bales they saw. The captain questioned me no farther.I found a ship ready to sail for Balsora, on board of which Iembarked, having presented some fine jewels to the captain whohad brought me to Kela.The rest of my voyage was prosperous, and I arrived at Bag¬dad with a vast increase of riches.Sindbad made another present to Hindbad, with the usualcharge of returning the next day to hear more surprisingadventures.THE FIFTH VOYAGE OF SINDBAD.Forgetting the perils I had suffered, I built me a ship atmy own expense, loaded her with a rich cargo, and we set sailwith a fair wind.After being at sea several weeks, we landed upon a deseri;island in search of fresh water, where we found a roc’s egg,equal in size to that I formerly mentioned. The merchantsand sailors gathered round it in great amazement, and though1 entreated them hot to meddle with the egg, they would notforbear, but making a hole in it with their hatchets, theypicked out the young roe, piece after piece, and roasted.it.Scarcely had they made an end of their treat, when there/ appeared in the air at a distance, two great clouds. I Knew itwas the rocs belonging to the young bird tliey had just de¬voured, and calling all the people together, I made them em¬bark and set sail with the utmost speed.The two roes, meantime, alighted on the island, and seeingtheir egg destroyed, made a most frightful noise. Presentlythey took flight and disappeared. It was not long before theyreturned with stones, or rather rocks, between their talons, of amonstrous size. When they came directly over my ship, theyhovered, and one let- his stone drop, but by the dexterity of theman at the helm, who turned the ship instantly aside, it missedns and fell into the sea. The other roc, to our misfortune,threw the stone so exactly into the very middle of the ship,that it split into a thousand pieces. The mariners and passen¬gers were all killed by the stone, or thrown into the sea, TY.ohitter was my fate, but I fortunately caught hold of a piece ofthe wreck, which carried me to an island.On advancing into the island, 1 saw a little old man sittingupon the bank of a rivulet. lie appeared very weak and19feeble; I supposed him to be some unfortunate person ship,wrecked like myself, and going nearer I saluted him, but hoonly bowed his head in return. I then asked him hy whatchance he had come into the island ; but instead of answeringme, he entreated by signs that I would carry him on my backover the brook ; I had no doubt that he was infirm, and desti¬tute of help, and I readily took him on my back, and crossedthe brook, when instead of getting down, he clasped his legs sofirmly round my throat, that I was almost strangled, and beingunable to relieve myself, I swooned away with pain and affright.Notwithstanding my fainting, the old fellow held fast by myneck, and when I recovered roy senses again, he struck mo sorudely on the side,'that I was forced to rise against my will,lie then comoelled me to walk under the trees, while he20diverted himself with gathering the fruit, I being obliged tocontent myself with what he threw away. He never quittedme a moment. When I laid down at night he lay down withme, his legs always fast about my neck; and every morninghe compelled me to get up as soon as the day dawned, fromwhich time till sunset I was forced to bear this odious load.One day I found in my way several dry calabashes; I pickedout a large one, and pressed into it some juice of grapes. I setit aside for several days, and on coming to it again, I found itto be most excellent wine.The old man perceiving the effect which this drink had uponme, made a sign for mo to give him some of it. I gave himthe calabash, and the liquor pleasing his palate, he drank thewhole of it, and became completely drunk, and by degreesloosened his legs from my neck, so that I was able to throwhim upon the ground, where he soon fell into convulsions, and Ihad the satisfaction to witness his death.I was extremely rejoiced to be freed from this detestable oldfellow. I hastened to the sea-side, where I found the crew ofa ship who had just cast anchor therein order to get freshwater. They were greatly surprised to see me, and to hear ofmy adventures. “You fell,” said they, “into the hands ofthe old man of the sea, and you are the first person who everescaped being strangled by him.They took me on board their vessel, and when we came tothe harbour of a great city, one of the merchants carried me tosome persons in the town, whose employment was to gathercocoa nuts, and recommended me to their care. He gave mealso a great bag and provisions for the journey, and said, “Go,follow them, and do as you see them do. Be careful not toseparate from them, or you will endanger your life.”I followed them, and we came to a great forest of tall straitcocoa trees, whose bark was so perfectly' smooth, that it wasimpossible for any man to climb up to the branches. Whenwe entered the forest, we saw a surprising number of apes, whoran up to the top of the trees with the utmost swiftness.The merchants with whom I was, picked up stones andpelted the apes, who, to revenge themselves, gathered cocoanuts and threw at us. We secured the cocoa nuts, and con¬tinued throwing stones to provoke the apes, till we possessedourselves of as many nuts as we could carry. We then returnedto the city, where the merchants gave me the value of my nuts,and advised me to do the same every day till I had got moneyenough to carry me home. I soon amassed a considerablesum : and taking leave of all the kind merchants, I embarkedjoyfully on board a vessel, and returned safe home again.21We looked around us, and saw the coast covered all overwith pieces of wrecks of ships, and great heaps of men’s bones,with incredible quantities of rich goods, which proved hewWhen Sindbad had finished, he ordered Ilindbad his usualpresent, and they returned to dinner the next day, when Sind-bad gave them an account of his Sixth Voyage.THE SIXTH VOYAGE OF SINDBAD.At the expiration of one year, I prepared for a sixth voyage,■which proved very long and most unfortunate, for the shipdrove against the foot of an inaccessible mountain, and was acomplete wreck. Yet we saved our lives, the most of our pro¬visions, and our goods.22many unfortunate persons must have perished there. To climbthis mountain, which almost readied the skies, was impossible;for it was formed of smooth granite, mixed with rocks of thefinest crystal, which hung over us. and seemed every instantready to fall upon our heads. In the midst of the mountainwas a monstrous dark cavern into which ran a broad blackriver, the roaring of whose waves stunned us with the sound.In this wretched place we continued till my comrades diedone after the other. I survived them all, and my stock of foodbeing exhausted, I suddenly made a desperate resolution totrust myself to the current of the black river.I made a float, and I loaded it with bales of rich stuffs, andfastening my cargo with ropes, I went on board my float withtwo little oars, and left it to the mercy of the current.As soon as I was in the cavern, I lost all light. I floatedfor some days, and once found the arch so low that it nearlybroke my head. At length a pleasing sleep seized upon me;when I awoke, I found myself in a vast country, at the brinkof a river, where my float was tied up, amidst a great numberof negroes. I exclaimed aloud, “Alla be praised!” and one ofthe blacks wbo understood Arabic, came towards me and said,“ Brother, we came hither to-day to dig canals from this river,which comes out of yonder mountain to water our fields,when wo found you floating in this manner. Pray inform uswhence you came. ”I begged of them to give me food, which they did, and afterI had appeased my hunger, I gave them a true account of ailthat had befallen me. They requested I would go with themto their king, and they placed me on a fine horse, bringing mycargo and float after me.We marched tlius till wo came to Serindib, for it was in thatisland I landed. I prostrated myself before the monarch, towhom I related my story, with which he was so surprised andpleased, that he ordered it to bo written in letters of gold, andlaid up among the archives of the kingdom. He then orderedone of his officers to take care of me, by whom I was conductedto the apartments provided for me, where I found my goodsalready placed in safety.When I paid my next visit to the king, I presented himwith the choicest pieces of my rock crystal, and then prayedhim to allow me to return to my own country, which requestho granted, and sent by. me a letter and a brilliant present tothe sovereign, the Caliph Haroun Alraschid, with many richgifts for myself, I returned to Bagdad, where my first care wasto present myself at the throne of the Caliph, wlio received theletter and present of the king of Serendib with the greatestCntertaininp; a company of my friends, I was sent for by thecaliph. “Sindbad,” said the monarch, “ I stand in need ofyour services, you must bear an answer and present from meto the king of Serindib.” I used my endeavours to be excused,satisfaction, and having testified bis thanks, he dismissed mewith a handsome present.Sindbad here left off speaking, and they all returned thefollowing day to hear the relation of the last voyage.THE SEVENTH AND LAST VOYAGE OF SINDBADTHE SAILOR.Being returned from my sixth voyage, I absolutely laid asideall thoughts of travelling any farther. But one day as I was84but the king would take no denial, but ordered me one thou¬sand sequins for the expenses of my journey.I embarked and had a favourable voyage. When I arrivedat Serindib, I delivered the caliph’s letter and present, whichhe received with satisfaction.A little time afterwards I solicited leave to depart. We hadnot been long at sea before we were attacked by corsairs, whoseized upon our ship, and carried us into slavery.We were all sold for slaves, and I was bought by a richmerchant, who carried me to his house, and put on me a slave’shabit. He inquired if I understood the use of the bow; Iassured him I did. He then gave me a bow and arrows, andtaking me behind him upon an elephant, carried me to a forestsome leagues from the town. We rode a great way, andstopped near an exceding high tree. My master bid me alight,and climb that tree; telling me I must wait there till I sawa troop cf elephants pass by, and then shoot at them, and if anyone fell, I was to hasten back to the city to give him notice ofit. Having given me proper directions, he left me a bag ofprovisions, and returned to the town.As soon as the sun arose on the following morning, I beheld agreat number : I shot several arrows among them, and at last oneof the elephants fell; the rest retired immediately, and left meat liberty to go and acquaint my patron with my success. Hecommended my diligence^ and we went back to the forest anddug a hole to bury the elephant in, till he decayed, when themerchant intended to take his teeth, for he traded in ivory.I continued this course for two months. One morning oneof the largest of them wound his trunk round the stem of thetree on which I was, and tore it up by the roots. I fell withthe tree, and the same elephant taking me up with his trunklaid mo on his back, and carried me to a hill, and left me. Iventured to get up, and discovered the hill covered all overwith the bones and teeth of elephants. I did not stay, butreturned to my master, who concluded I was destroyed. Iconducted him to the bill, and we loaded the elephant onwhich we rode with as many teeth as he could carry.My master then gave me liberty to return to my owncountry. He loaded a ship with a valuable cargo for me, andabundance of provisions.We set sail, and at last I came safe to Bagdad, and pre¬sented myself to the caliph.Sindbad then gave Hindbad a hundred sequins, and desiredhim to quit his porter’s employment, and come every day todine with him, that he might have reason to remember Sindbadthe Sailor.