ANA C C O U N VOF THE PARTICULARS O L I L O CLU I E SANDCOVENANT ENGAGEMENTS,OFMrs. JANET HAMILTON,The deceafed Lady of Alex. Gordon ofEarlllon.Upon the feveral Diets, and at the feveralPlaces under-written, which were foundin her Cabinet among her Papers, afterher Death, at Earlfton, Feb. 26. 1696.Being all written and fubfcribed with herown hand; and thought fit to be difcov-ered, for the encouragement of others tothe like duty. —-—    - -Taken from a Glafgow Copy, Printed inthe Year 1754.Pai/ley, printed ly y. Neilfon, Cumberland,For John Gle^, Port-Glafgow.1891.( 3 )C'.:'. -Qj- xJvv ^-.vj rATSwvW'*tCTy 'ity >ZZsz>Zis! 7'£J cj;5'fy? fyi ir^f: l5^ : I^Jpl Fj5* FJT r •■^’SCovenant Engagements, &c.OFHAMILTON. .The firft dated atBlacknefs Caftle, December, 1687.OLORD, I defire to blefs thy name fofthy former loving kindnefles unto mein the time of my ftrait, in helping and Hand¬ing by me when overcharged with affliction.(. 4 )and ceferted of friends. What was I and myfather’s houfe ? A poor infufficient creature,taken up with nothing but vanities of al! forts.O what moved a holy God ever to condef-cend to look upon me, and pafs by fo manymuch more worthy than poor undefervingme ? O praifes be unto thee, O Moft High !O that my tongue were employed thro’ time•in magnifying the holy name of fo merciful aGod! May not I fay that his mercies are overall his other wrorks to me ! May not I fit andadmire his free love, firft in inclining myheart to love him and his people, and in call¬ing my lot amongft the godly, and in bellow¬ing a godly and kind hufband upon me (whenleft deftitute of father or mother ) and thathe did fo care for me, as not to fulfer me toenjoy the defires of my heart, but was at painsto hedge in my way with thorns ; and his in¬finite love fuffered me not to fit at my eafe,enjoying my pleafure in the day of Zion’scalamity.And preparing the way by fmaller trialsfor greater, thou didft, in thine infinite loveand wifdom, not at firft call me into the hot-teft flames of the furnace, left I fliould nothave been able to Hand, but in fright faint¬ed and turned back: but, O prailc, praifebe to him that inhabits eternity! that con-defcended fo far to me a worm, as fwcetiy totrain me up, alluring me and fpcaking com¬fortably to me at my firft entry into the wil-dernefs. Thou caufed thy word to be to myfoul as thc^koncy and the honey-comb. Thoumadft me fit under thy fhadow with greatdelight, and thy fruit was fweet to my tafte.So that many a time, that, which to on-look¬ers was fad, was fweet to me The Lorddid fo fupport and feaft me in his banquetinghoufe, that I was made to rejoice in the miditof my tribulations.Likewife, thou didft not fuffer me to goon with thofe that were indifferent in Chrift’smatters, but with thy rod thou didft raifefuch a zeal and love on my fpirit, and fo filledmy mouth with arguments, that I could notfee any thing like defection from, or wrongdone to, any of thy troths, wuthout refent-ing, tefiifying, and contending againft it.Thou fo far changed my heart, which wasproud and haughty, much difdaining theconverfe of the poor,—that thou helped meto be denied to great folk, and to the reproachI fuffered on that head, making the companyof the poor that wei>e godly in the land dearunto me ; and 1 hope they fhall be fo, whilethey keep m God’s way—he having paffed bythe great ones, and honoured the poor, mak¬ing them boldly to teftify for him ; and thofewhom he honours, 1 defire (thro’ grace) to( 6 )honour. Praife be to thee, whofe care ofme was fuch that it was minifters who werevaliant for Chrfft that he fent in my way ;fuch as did not flattter mein my fin, but faith¬fully aod freely did hold out in the gofpelwhat was fin and what was duty, and fea'edthe fame with their blood. How didft thouencourage me with many Iweet anfwers ofprayers, to confirm me in thy love. Thoudidlt help me in the days of thy love to me,to make -a full refignation of all that wasmine unto thee. When 1 was put out of all,liriped bare and deftitute, not knowing offlicker to me and poor my babes, how calmlyand quietly didft thou help me to go underit! fo that 1. was made to fear that it wasftupidity, and not fupporting grace. Andfuch was thy love, that even in that thouwould not let me go without a reproof; forthere was a friend differed to wrong me in abufinefs, and the Lord withdrew, and thenT was as a bullock unaccuftcmed to the yoke ;i could not get it borne, until I mourned formy folly in thinking that nature could doany thing in me without aflifting grace : thenhe helped me to make a full refignation anewof all that was mine, and to look beyond allearthly portions unto that noble inheritancewhich thou haft purchafed with thine ownblood, and gave me a full contentednefs inajl my fufferings, both from friends and( 7 )And when thou didfl (for the trial of myfaith and patience) throw me in very hotflames of affliction, having a!l difcourage-ments from the world that a poor thirg couldbe tryfted with ; and that which was foreftto me> not having that meafure of fenfe ofthy prefence as fometimes before : but G!that condefcendence ! O that fatherly love,that did not fuffer me to fink in this ftormwhich was lightly looked on by the moftpart; few to fympathize with me) but manythinking it their duty to add to my affliction.O praifes! praifes be to thee, who at thattime helped me to fit filent, bearing thy indig¬nation patiently, becaufe I tinned againft theeyet thy mercies did not fail towards me, butthou didff in this extremity fupport me, anddid, by reftraining grace, bind me in, notgiving me liberty to feek finful deliverances.O Lord, continue in thy love in keeping mein thy way, that I may have reafon to fet upmy Ebenezer, and to fay, Hitherto theLord hath helped me. O Thou that haft be¬gun this good work, perfeft it, that I maypraife thy holy name thro’ time and all eter¬nity. And now, O Lord, out of the fenfeof all thefe thy loving kindnefles towards thypoor handmaid, I defire in thy ftrength torenew former engagements, and folemnly a-new to enter into covenant with thee. Or s )I.ord, help me to go hncerely about it, andlet thy prefence go along with the duty.O Lord, I here defire to enter folemnlyinto covenant with thee, taking thee for myLord and Mailer, accepting thee on thy ownterms, taking thee for my King, Priefl, andProphet; and in my fiation, thro’ thy grace,to hand by truth, and cheerfully to take onthy yoke and follow thee. Lord, thou know-eft my weaknefs: I defirc to believe that thouwilt be a prefent help, an the day of need, tome, according to thy promife ; and I, in thefaith of this, do go on 1 here give myhearty confcnt to thy coming and taking pof-feflion of my foiil, and to thy calling out ofall there that Hands in oppofition to thee.Come, Lord Jefus, fubdu'e all my corrup¬tions, and bring them under thy feet, that Imay be thro’ thee a conqueror over them.I defirc here to take thee tor my all, to beruled and governed by thee, acquiefcing towhatfoever fhall be thy way of dealing withme. Give me thyfelf, and this fhall be allmy defire : I defire to enter my protellationat the throne of grace, againft all principali-ries and powers in me that Hand out againftGvce, and ihall endeavour, in thy Hrength, towar againll them, for they reign as tyrantsnot having confent. Whatever I have been,) dare h.ere accept of the offer of peace thro*r 9 )Chrift, and do make a lure covenant withthee this day never to be reverfed, hopingthou wilt make all forthcoming unto me,both on thy part.and mine.—I ddire here toown ail tf^; contraverted truths that arefounded on thy holy word; which word Idefire to be my rule, and to confefs thee be¬fore t en, that thou mayeft cf nfefs me beforethe Father. Lord, give me in that hour, if1 (hall be brought before great ones for thynames fake, 1 ddire to adhere to all the ar¬ticles of the Covenants, National and SolemnLeague, to which 1 am engaged; only Idifown the king’s part of it, he having un¬kinged himfelf by the breach of Covenants,and by making cur land a land of gravenimages, that was fo folemnly given up toGod: I defire in weaknefs to adhere to it,altho’ burnt by the hand of the hangman,and now buried by thofe that better thingswere expected of. O Lord, I defire to doleall, by giving myfelf up to thee, and altmine: Accept, Lord Jefus Chrill, and helpto perform, and own me as thy covenantedchild, protehing humbly, that failing on mypart (againif which I reidlve as thou knoweft)ihall not make void this covenant. I haveaccepted of thy offer upon thy own terms,and will henceforth wait for what is good,that when thou comelt I may rejoice in thee.( 10 )crying, This is my God, I have waited forhim. As witnefs my hand, at BlacknessCastle,December, Sic fubfcribitur,1687.JANET HAMILTON.Covenant Engagements &c.The fecond dated atEalston, January, 1691.ORD, thou knoweft my former engage¬ments which pad betwixt my foul andthee, when I entered into covenant with thee(to my foul’s great comfort) in the fvveetCable of Blacknefs.—-I giving myfe f up un¬to thee, promifing to be for thee in my fta-tion, adhering to thy facred feriptures, andto our noble work of reformation, which wasthen the head of my fuflerings, and for which1 had loft the favour of my relations andchriftian friends, whole untendernefs to memade rne fit folitary, eating the bread of ad-verfity, and drinking the water of aftliclion ;killed all the day long with fore and heavyreproaches ; few or none to fympathize. withme but thyfelf, who fweetened all my trialswith the loul comforting confolations of thyHoly Spirit : fuch contentednefs thou gavefine in thy fweet crols, that I never knewwhat it was for to weary.—I at that tinae en¬gaged to endure what ingredients thoufhouldeft put in my cup to drink, and todrink cheerfully and fubmiflively.—Such wasthy love to me, that thou brought me fromunder the feet of that cruel enemy, withoutwronging truth ; and haft letten me lee, thatI have nothing to boaft of,-—it being nothingin me but ever free grace that perfectedftrength in "my weaknefs. O that l had thetongue of the learned, that I might fhew allthy praifes! It was not 1 but thou who mag¬nified thy power, in carrying a poor weakthing thro* fuch depths, and fuftbred greatones to ftagger and fall in the way— thyword was made out in making ufe of thefoolilh things of the world to confound thewife.—Thou haft made thy infinite love tocarry thro’ a poor finite creature.How often have I been made to Hand andwonder, and admire free love ; knowing myown vveakneft, and the many infirmities Iam liable to, by a body of fin and death :fuch was thy love, that thou gave me fuchcourage, that neither the flattering of friendsnor the threats of enemies could move meto do any thing to truth’s difadvantage ! Suchwas thy love to me ! O thy fweet crofs ! thyycke was mad eafy to me, and thy burdenlight, O that any ftiould fear at thy fchocl-inftructing rods! How many leflbns ofChriftianity are to be learned under thy rod!So much comfort and confolation is to befound in quietly and calmly acquiefcing tohis will, that I may fay, Hhall never haveInch ccntentednefs, were I to be inheritor ofthe whole world, as I had under the fweetcrofs of Chril}. () prail’es ! praifes to himwho made it fo! But with what a heavyheart did 1 come out cf that callle of Blach-nefs! I he Lord did give me fiich a fight ofthe intricate difpersfations that the Churchwas tomeet with, by the coming of the Princeof Orange, that inftead of being compaft a-bout with fongs of defiverance^t was attend¬ed wfith great'heavinefs: 1 could take plea-fure in nothing, but mourning over the fadthings I law coming on the Church. Whenothers were rejoicing, I durfl: not makemention of my difconfolate cafe. Whenthey fpake of preferment to my family, itwas as a (Word to my heart, l cried, and theLord heard me in that; and inftead of that,he gave me the affurance cf the falvation ofmy dear child William, and gave me fullfubmiflion to his ficknefs, which l could ne¬ver win to before,—accompanied with ma¬ny fweet melting days, which was to meaninexpreflible mercy. Oh, then ! what did Ifee next ? The work of God betrayed, notby enemies, nor by that party only that hadfitten at their eafe, but by thole iiuuillers andpeople that had jeoparded their lives iti the,high places of the fields, taking chearfullythe fipoiling of their goods;—thefe are theythat have buried the work of the Lord, fad-dened the hearts of their poor afflicted breth¬ren, buried the Covenant and the Reforma¬tion work, which was the glory of our land.Seeing all this with the home-coming to-my houfe, which I thought I never wouldhave enjoyed again till Chrift had been ref-toredto his rights; for, O Lord, thou know-eft, that I defired not delivery till it had comewith Zion’s : I fay, this call me into a greatgrief. Lord, thou knoweft my burden : itis not hid from thee, and it is all my comfort.0 the depths of the intricate difpemations Ihave been tryfted with, finee I came our ofthat forefaid Caftie ! If it were not that mv*cafe and Zion’s is fornewhat levelled alike,furely 1 would fink beneath the ftream ; but,the cup which my father hath given me, (hall1 not drink it? Lord, help me, that 1 wearynot before it be at an end.Would it not affect any foul that ever hadany love to Chrift, to fee the fad fruit of aperfonal delivery ;—every one running outof the furnace'after the world, and after hisown rights and privileges, without beingconcerned to enquire how Chrift is inveftedin his rights and prerogatives. Oh ! is this( *5 )the gratitude we have (hewn him for all hisloving kindncffes to us in the wildernefs! Isthis for his feeding, clothing, and prefervingjn defpight of enemies! Is this all we haverendered to him—to run as fo many flaeep outof a fold, every one to what he could win at,without ever looking and confidering whatwas their duty to do in fuch a time for Chriftand his caule! O ! wrath is gone out againftus! Plague upon plague is the portion forprofeffors of this generation! O Lord, Ifear 1, and many others, have been buildingupon a fandy foundation; fufFering more outof an expectation of a temporal delivery, thanout of love to Chritl and his caufe! the eventof the fufferings of Scotland fpeaks out thetruth of this,—the fight whereof has mademy heart to tremble. Therefore, O Lord,I defire that thou wouldeft uncover the deceitof my heart in this, with a true i’enl'e of itupon my fpirit, that 1 may mourn in lecretplaces for it. O ! give me thy aflifting graceand helping hand in this reeling, fainting, andfalling time, that I may be helped, in Tingle-nefs and uprightnefs oi heart, and infinceritywithout hypocrify or guile, to lay that foun¬dation Hone right, which is Jefus Chrift.O come and give thy confent to this covenantand bargain this day : let thy prefence fhewthy fatisfaClion in it, that 1 may win to thefaith—that not only I have covenanted withthee, but that thou haft condefcended in thy( >S ')infinite love to covenant with me, and haftmade it fure in every thing.—Now, Lord, Idelire to enter into covenant with thee thisday, in oppolition to all the corruptions ofa body of fin and death that I am matteredwith :—I defire, in thy fight, to proteft a-gainftaH things in me, or in my family, thatis not like thee—and, this day, to invitethee back to my houfe on any terms,— anddo not break us with thy long abfence.—-Come, Lord Jefus, and take up thy dwellingamongft us—we are a heartlefs companywithout thee.—Come to the heads, and tellus what is duty, and our duty; and putwork in our hands. -Art thou palling by us,as one that hath no more work for us to do ?O Lord, I cannot think upon this; let notour iniquities put a ftop in thy vray : comeover the mountains of oppcfuion, and put usto duty, and keep us at duty, and dwell withus. I invite thee to come to my poor babes ;let them be of the little children that thouliiffers to come unto thee. Salvation to himthat appears to be near his clofe : let himhave mercy in, and thro’ a compleac Medi¬ator Clirill; let thy fympathy and free lovebe extended towards him, —he being one ofthy fufferers, wanting the adminillration ofthy Sacrament of Baptifm, becaufe of theunfaithful *ds of mini tiers. Lord, thouknoweft, that it was not in contempt of thyholy ordinance that it was wanting ; but we( 7 )could not, in our ilatiori, fhew in a moreeminent way our diflike to the injuries doneto thee, O Lord, by unfaithful minillers :all their treachery is well known unto thee.J^ord, break the fnares, and let thy poorflock efcape ; and haften the day when mykids (hall feed befide the fnepherd’s tents. Iinvite thee this day to every foul within myfamily ; let the work of grace be amongftthem all,—every one encouraging anotherin the way of duty, that we may be a littlefan&uary for thee to dwell in—-1 invite thee,O Lord, this day to return to poor cove¬nanted Scotland ; altha* fne has broken co¬venant with thee, yet thou mutl not give upwith her. Remember thy former lovingkindnefs to her, and, for thine own name’sfake, return, return, and deliver. Are notenemies rejoicing, that they have gotten ofthe fons and daughters of Zion to help theifito lay on the grave-flone, to hold down thework ? Are not enemies crying, Where isthe covenanted God of Scotland,—and fay¬ing, If this work had been of God, it wouldhave flood : So that all the blood of thy peo¬ple, and the caufe of God for which theyfuffered, is now buried, with the mockery offome and joy of others. But thou, who artthe lion ot the tribe of Judah, roufe up thy-felf, and let it be known to all nations, thatthe covenanted God of Scotland lives andreignsi O that the refurrecticn of thy buried( i8 )work were more glorious than ever! LetZion's walls be built again, fo that flie mayBe beautiful as Tirza, comely as Jerufalem,fair as the Moon, clear as the Sun, and terri¬ble as an Army with banners : fo that herenemies may tremble ; and her children, whofor a long time have been mourning over herrubbifh, may rejoice in her comely order,and be compafTed about with fonps,—I invitethee to the poor betrayed fcattered focietiesin Scotland, that thou art now juftly con¬tending with. The marks of thy displeafureare evidently to be feen in every meeting; anabfent God in every piece of duty ; love andtendernefs much gone ; heart-burnings andcontendings and lukevvarmnefs breed nothinglike a practical work among the moft part, ormaking any progrefs in the way of Chrifti-anity: Is not all this come upon us,. becaufeour God is not among!! us! O that thou, OLord, wouldeit return and make known forwhat thou art contending, and remove theirfpiritual plagues, and let thy fpirU be pouredout among the Tinners in Zion, and let themagain behold the King’s face in peace.—I de¬lire to invite thee to every ailli&ed and we iried*foul that is tod, and like to faint on the darkmountains, palling thro’ dark Heps, and noneto Ipeakcomfortably unto them, but everyone adding grief to grief. Lord, appear thoufor their help, and fhorten thefe days for theelect’s fake, left they faint under the burden.and put forth their hands to ir.iquity.--I de¬fire this day to covenant with thee, in oppo-lition to all the power civil, and ecclefsailic,that has eaten our the life of ChrifHanity, andftands in oppofition to thee and thy precioustruths, -and engage never to own them, tillthey be for thee. This I engage, in theftrength of the Lord.I adhere to a 1 the truths of the Old andNew Teftaments ; and to all the teftimoniesof thy people 'given by them) for carryingon thy work.—I defive to adhere to the nowburied covenants, and to all the work of re¬formation which is founded upon thy word.Lord, help a poor weak infufficient creatureto hold by this vow ; and in paying vows un¬to thee, 1 do this day give up my dear huf-band unto thee, and all my children, thatthou mayeft make them for thee, and em¬ploy them in thy fervice---be the hazardw'hat it will.O Lord, take them off my hand, that theymay be marked in thy love in that day whenthou goeft thro* the land with the devouringfword; let them get their fouls for a prey,and be found within the bonds of the ever-lafting covenant. This is all my defire*—grace in exercife be their porTcn.( 2° )I do this day folemnly enter into covenantwith thee. Holding m> mv Hands, vowingto be thine, giving up myfelf unto thee, clof-ing with thee on thine own terms, beggingthee to come and put to thy fea! to this greatwork : and I defire that this covenant maybe as a ftaff to hold me up from daggering onthe dark mountains. Lord, help me to havea pradice in ilncerity, like one in covenantwith thee. 0 LORD, Ido take the Stones inthe waU> and the Timber of the Houfe, to wit-refs, that I have given up myfef, and all mine,vnto thee, 0 Lord, this day. As witnefs myhand,At Earlston, 7 Sic Subfcribitur,Jan. 1691. 3JANET HAMILTON-C 21 )COVENANT ENGAGEMENTS, &c.The third, dated atAirds, June 1695.i"’’ Out of the fenfe of my own wcaknefs,and the great falling away of this genera¬tion, do defire to renew my covenant engage¬ments. The Lord has been kind unto me ;he has not been a barren wildernefs, nor aland of drought in the day of famine,—hehas fed me in the green paftures. O forgrace to improve all thy loving kindneffesunto me! Accept of my weak performances,which 1 defire to do only in thy itrength. Ohelp me to covenant aright with thee, and tokeep covenant vows to thee! 1 do again give( 22 )up all that I have unto thee. I give up mydear fympathizir % hufband to thee : putwork in his hand that may be for thy glory,his fouls comfort, and truth’s advantage,that we may rejoice in thee in the way of thyfalvation. I likewife give up my dear brotherunto thee ; his cafe is known unto thee;thou haft hitherto helped him, and I defireto believe thou wilt continue thy love. OLord, thou haft given a little flock; dearand precious Chrift, as thou haft given themunto me, I do freely and folemnly give themback unto thee, and defire that thou mayeftdifpofe of them at thy pleafure only, letgrace be given to them, that they may beemployed in their ftations, for thy glory,—and be kept from the abominations of thetime. Do with them as to the world, asthou thinks fit,--.only, convey grace downto their pofterity; let them be pleaders forthee; as 1 have pleaded for them at the throneof grace : this is all my defire, and would bemy comfort to fee. O Lord, come this dayand fmile upon my poor gift, and accept ofthem. I folemnly ftand to all my former en¬gagements, and make a folemn refignationof myfelf unto thee, and defire to clofe withthee on thine own terms. O fet thy fealto it, and condefcend in thy love to let it beregiftrate in heaven, that whatever may bemy cafe or trials, I may have a covenanted( 23 )Cod to run to. Lord, keep me in thy way,and help me to ftand by truth. I defire, thisday, to proteft againft all the encroachmentsmade on thy rights and church privileges:and I defire to proteft, this day before thythrone, againft: the foul-murdering courfesof minifters and people adopted : and I defireto proteft againft that horrid abomination ofdefiling the Lord’s I able after fuch an igno¬minious manner.Oh, poor Scotland! what fhall be thyend ? Wrath from on high, for your facrih-gious abominations. I defire this day, toadhere to all thy covenanted truths, foundedon thy holy word.—I defire to mourn overany thing that is in me, or mine, that is of-fenfive in thy fight. O Lord, let us be whol¬ly for thee, adfing for thee with a perfeftheart I defire no longer to have a pofleritythan they are for thee. D Father, Son, andHoly Ghoft, come and be witneffes to thisbargain, and clofe with me that defires toclofe with thee, and to be thy covenantedchild. Here I take all the trees of the wood, andall the works of Creation about me, to witne/s, thatI have given all mine unto thee, not in my Jirengthhut in thine. O Lord Jehovah, to whom Idelire this day to give everlafting praifes, that' ( 24 )thou hall not fufFered my table to be empty,whillt others are, defiling thine. O praiie lpraife for ever be to thee. As witnefs myhand,At Airds, Sicfubfcribitur,June, 1695.JANET HAMILTON.N. B. If any fufpeft this to be vitiate orcounterfeit, they may go to her hufband,who can fliew them the principal, all writtenand fublctfibed with her own hand.F I N I S.iPaiJley) ftinted ly J* NcH/ony Cumberland, i8#r.