HISTORYOFBUCKHAVEN;WITH THE EXPLOITS OFWISE WIEEIE/ZuiVAHJIOUaANDWITTY EPPIE.f>niorfl ffc ’Vemom/.>•1 novi rf jlM islo iBlIV/CH, S IRt>ib8 kIB iPIUifllS/V:b<( ‘ji:l-ritioniIniiS sdtno/i:i!nn; ,baiwBU[)rJ(!l Hh!•» v inruiw b1*4 iffphinted for the booksellers.■ ‘ 0 : '/HOT 8IITHEHISTORY) gTIOJHXa 3HT HT1Worr -«M m TWjN rjR >.-A fni kkl al Wv iliiBUCKHAVEN.r i f f; <} '1 p| 'irAmonst all the ancient records yet found. Bucky,or Buckh >ven is never mentioned. There was a$et called Buccaneers, who were pirates, that isto say, sea-rob hers, hut strick search being madefor these sea-roibers, the' were dispersed. What of them escaped in the southern climate,are said to shelter at or near Berwick upon Tweed,Having differe:! amongst themselvs a smart battleensued after which they divided, and it is said,the party who gained the Buckv battle, fearedthe English law would take place, thev set north-word, and took up their residence at Buckhaven,so calf d, not only on account of the great quan¬tity of buckies that are found in and about theplace, hut on account .of the battle they had withtheir neighbours at Berwick, when they divided,which, they called bucking one ami othet, but nownamed boxing, or fighting, Another party of3those Bunkers settled in a fishing town at Banff,called Bucky and near the river Spey, which isnow a pretty lar^e sea-port town. But among allthe sea-towns in Scotland the fishers still retaina language quue different from the people inthe country ; and they always shift the letter Hand use () instead thereof which no countrv-people in Scotland do but themselves. There isa corrupt on of speach in every country over allBritain, and likewise they use different tonesand ways of pronouncing words from others;even some in the south of Scotland can hardlybe under>tood bv those in the north, though nothpretend to speak good English, and have a liberalpirf of education. But since learning is nowso easy to oe obtained, ignorance and corruptionof speach are greatly decreased.In the county of Fife, on the sea const, therestands a little town, inhabited bv few but fishers,called Buck Harbour, because of sea buckies andshells to be found so plenty on the rocks aboutthat place. I lu re is little mention mane ofibis place by historians, to know its criminalextraction and anticpiities, but in their ownhurges ticket which was partly parfect truth,but more of it by way of lampoon. Hiis ticketwas date a the thirty second day of the monthof Julius Caesar, I heir Coat of Arms were twohands tiipoing each other over a scale’s rumple,their oath was, ’ I wish that de de’il maytak me an I binna an honest man to you an4ye binna de like to me.’ An article of eood neigh¬bourhood they had. whoever w?s first up in agood morning, was to raise ali the rest to go tosea ; but if a very bad morning, piss and goto bed again till break of day, then raise WiseWillie who could ju''ge of the weather by theblaming of the wind.— TVii freedoms were totake all sorts of fish containea in their takets, aslobsters, partens, podles, spout-fish, sea cats, sea-dogs, flucks, pikes, dick-puddocks, and p-fish.A gain, these people are said to have descendedfrom one Tom and his two sons who were fisherson the coast of Norway, who in a violent stormwere blown over and got ashore at Ruckharhourwhere they settled ; and the whole of his childrenwere called Tom-sons, and soon became a littletown bv themselves, as few of any other namedwelt among them. This is a traditional story,handed down from one generation to another.They keep little communication wi'h countrypeople about them, for a farmer in those daysthought his daughter cast away, if she marriedone of the fishers in Buckyharbour ; and on theother hard, v\ itty Eppie, the ale wife, wad asworn, “ Be go laddie, I wad rathrr see my boatand a’ my three sons dadded against the Bass, orI srw ony o’ them married to muck a byre’sdaughter, a wheen useless t ipies. it <an do nae-thing but puck at a tow rock, and cut a cornthey can neither bait a hook not rade a line, bego laddie, nor gather purrivi inkles.5Now, Wise Willie and Witty Eppie th«ale wife, lived there about a buhdred years ago,Eppie’s chamber was their College and coutt-house where they decide their controversies, andexplained their wonders; for the house was likea little kirk, had four windows and a gable door,the wives got 14ave to flyte their (ill. but fightingwas prohibited, as Eppie said, ‘ Up hands wasfoul play.’ Their fines was a pint of ale andEppie sold it at a plack the pint. They hadneither minister nor magistrate, nor a burley-baille, to brag them with his tolbooth. I heLord of the IVlanor decided all disputable pointsand Wise Willie and Witty Eppie, the ale wifewere the rulers of the town.• i-r>' nul- !>i << ,1 -t t„, fNow Eppie had a daughter, she called herLingle tailed Nancy, because of her fecklessdrowth ; her waist was like a twitter, she had naecurpen for her creel, being Edinburgh bred, andbrought up with her London aunty, was learnedto read and sew, made coarse claes, and callicoemancoes there was nae a scholar in the townbut hersel, she read the Bible, and the book ofkirk sangs w-as newly came in fashion. Willieand Eppie told them aye what it meant, and saida’ the letters in it was fitted by my Lord, forthey saw him hae a feather that he dipped inblack water, and made brooked scores, just likethe same, and then he spoke o’er again, and ittold him what to say.< 6 'It happened on a day, that two of theirwives near the town found a horse shoe, andbrought it home and sent for w ise Willie to secwhat it was. Willie comes and looks at it; indeedeo M illie its a thing and holes in it. I ken’dco’ they, he would get a name til ’t. \ ho, eo’Willie wliare did you find it? Ai eath my Lord'sain house Willie. A deed, said Willie, its theau d mood, I ken by the holes in’t for nailing itto the lift; but I wonder if she fell i ■ Fife, forthe last lime I saw her, she was hanging onher back aboon Edinburgh. A herb, co* Willie,we’il set her upon the highest house in the town,anil we h hae moon light o’ our ain a’ the dayso’ the year. The whole town ran to see the moon,hout tout, Snid Aitty Eppie, ye’re hut a’ foolsthegither: its hut a e o’the things it my Lord'sm ire wears upon her lufe.At another time one of their wives founda hare with its legs broken. lying among her kail,in the yard. She not knowing what it was,cahed out to her neighbours to see it. Somesaid it was a gent email’s cat, or my lady'slap -dog. or a sheep’s young kitten, because it had•aft horns. Na, na, cried A'ise v\ illie, its aneo' the maukins that gentlemen's dogs worriesVA hat will we do wi't. Hech, co they all,we,II sing the woo, and make fish and sauceo’t to my fammies parritch. Na. na, saidWitty Lppie, better gie’e to mv Lord, and he’ll•tap an iron stick through the guts o’t and gar’tI:7rin round about the fire till it be roasted. No, no,said Wise Willie, we ll no do that indeed, for myLord wad mak us a’ dogs, and gar us rin throughthe country seeking maunins for him.‘jinTW bui'io . won ^ ju >;wj vrf»8 9tl ln<It happaned on a dark winter morning,that two of their wives were going to Dysurt,to *ell their fish; and on the road-side therehappened to he some tinkers’ ass tethered The poor ass seeing the twa wives coming withtheir creels, toonght it w is the tinkers Comingto flit or reli -ve him fell a crying; so the twawives threw their fish a«ay. and ran home Imethe very devil, and said that he spoke to thembut they didin l-en what he said, for it waswords like a Highlandman’s; the whole townwas in an uproar; some would go with picksand spades, end hag him to pieces, others won dgo and cateh him in a strong net, and then theycould either hang or drown him: Na, na, quo’Willie, that’ll no do. we maun cast out wi‘ him atfirst as he has gotten the twa nurdens o fish,he’ll e’en gang his wa’ and no fash us nae mair,he’s o’er suple to be CatchM in a n**t; a’ yourpith will neither hang nor drown him, andthe kintry he comes frae is a’ het coals, so he’llnever burn; we’ll gae to him in a civil manner,and see what he w-mts.. Get out Eppie,the ale wife, and Lingle-tailed Nancy wj‘ theBible and Psalm book. So off they went ina crowd, either to kill the deil,or catch himsajive; and as they came near the place, the ass/‘ell a crying, which caused many of them to faintifei run back. Na. na, co’ vVillie, that’s no^ tnfe > e’ifs words at a’, its my Lords trumpeter,touting on his brass whistle. A'illie, venturedtil! he saw the ass’es twa lugs, now, cried Willie,back to the rest, come forward and baud him fastI see his twa horns, hech sirs, he has a whitebeard like an auld beggei man ; so they enclosedthe poor as.a on all sides, thinking it was the de’ilbut when Wise Willie saw lie had nae clovenfeet he cried out, i catena lads, this is no thede’il, its some living beast, its neither cow norhose, And what is’t then’ Willie? Indeed, coWillie, its the father of the maukins, I ken by itslang lugs.i>i ... . ; i'ii- iH *. aihi »!'!'■' wNow, some siy this history is too siriricahut it is according to the knowledge of thosetimes, not to say anything by another. Theold wives will tell you yet of many such stories,of the devil appearing to their grandfathers andgrandmothers, and dead wives coming hack againto visit their families long after being dead.So this Buckliaven was once noted for drollexploits; but it was now become more known,and a place said to produce as hardy watermenor sailors, of any town on the Scots coast. Yetmany of the old people in it still retain the oldrincrute of their ancient and uncultivated speech,such as Be go laddie ; they are also of a fierynature, for if you ask any of their wives where9tlieir college stands, they tell you, if your nosewere in their a vour mouth would be at the• * 'xdoor of it.Now, it so happened, when Wise W iPvturned old, he took a great swelling in his wsire,and casting up his kail, collops. and cauld fish,that nothing could stand on his stomach, anda stout stomach he had for crabs’ heads andscale-broth, or brose on a bridal morning, yet itfailed him and he fill sick ; none could cure himnor tell what ailed him, till a mountebank stage-doctor came to Kircaldy, that could judge bypeople’s piss, the trouble of their person. Wise Willie hearing of his fame, p/ssed intoa bottle, and sent it a^ay with his daughter.The bottle being uncorked his daughter spilt itby the way; to conceal her sloth in so doing,she pissed >n it herself, and goes on till she cameto the stage-doctor, when she cried out alaudiSir Docter, sir Doctor, here’s a bottle of myfathers wash, he has a sair guts( and needs nadrite ony. but spews a’ he eats. Its true I tellyou my dow. The doctor looks at it, then says.It's no your father’s surely, it is your mother’sThe de’il’s in the man, said she, dinna I ken myfather frae my mither. Then said he, he iswith child. The de’il’s i’ the man, said she, formy mither bare a’ the bairns before; dats notrue sir, fegs you’re a great liar. Hame shecomes, and teli’d Willie, her father, that thedoctor said he was with bairn. O waes me, co’10Willie, for I have a tnnckle wame, an’ I fear it’so'er true. O plague on you, Janet! for ye’rethe fither o’t. Very soon after this, Witty Epniewas sent for as she was the howdy, and she fand a’W illies wame to he sure about it. Indeed, co’Eppie,ye’re the first man e’er I saw wi’ bairn beforean’ how ye II bear I dinna ken. Ye hae a wallywame, weel I wat, but how men bears bairns Idinna ken. But I would drink salt water anddrown it in my «uts; for if men get ance the gateo’ bearing weans themselves, they’ll seek naemair «ives. So illie drank sea water till hisguts was like to rive, and out he got to easehimself in the kailyard, and with the terriblenoise of his farting, up started a maukin behindhim, who thought it was shot; Wilhe seeing herjump o’er the dyke, thought it was a child broughtforth, and cries out. Come back my dear, and bechristened, and dinna rin to the hills to be aPagan. So v\ illie grew better every day tlrere-after, being brought to bed in the kail-yard, buthis daughter was brought to bed some monthsafter, which was the cause of the doctor’s mistake.TMl .»»11^onlimi ?.h VW ^bU 901S3' ■PART II.'.Hamuli’ hnuo:’ : Inafl orfl II* W-Now Wise Willie bad a daughter, calledRolling, Couching Jenny, as she spoke thicksax words at three times, ha’f sense. haTnonsense,as her own records will hear witness. She beingwith child, she was delivere't of a bonny lass, andall the wives in the town cried out, be eo laddie,its just like its ain father, Lana Sandy I'ason,(or Thomson) we ken by its nose; for Sandyhad a great muckle red nose like a lobsters taebowed at the point like a hawk’s neb, and Sandyhimsef said, it was shur y his or some otherbo.ly,s, but he had used a his birr at the gettingo't, trying his abilities, being the first time e erhe was at sic a busness before; and when hehad done a’ that man could do at it he said itwas nonsence; and shame fa* him but he wadrather row his boat round the Bass and back againor he'd do the like again; for Wise Willie gadewude at the wane, and said it had mair ill natureiu't than the auloest wife about the town; for itpissed the bed. and shit the bed : skirled likea wild cat, and kepped him frae his nights rest,and the auld hags about the town: ca'd himSandy, the bairns daddy, and a’ the young gilliegauky lasses held out their fingers, and cried,Ti hie, hie Sandy the kirk will kittle your hipsfor that; and after a’ the bleer-eyed bell man12came blaiklering about the buttock meal, sum¬moned him and her before the haly band, a courtthat was held in the kirk on Saturday morningand all the herd laddies round about, cried, ay,ay, Sandy, pay the bull siller, or we’ll cut thecow’s tail away, So poor Sandy suffered sadly inthe flesh, besides the penalty and kirk penance.lint Wise Willie took pity on them, andBade wi’ them to the kirk’s court, what learnedfolk call the session. Jenny was first called uponand in she goes, where all the haly band wasconvened, elders and younger deacons, anddog-keeper keeping the door, the cankerdest carlethat could ne gotten between Dysart and Duby,side, white heads and bald heads sitting wantingbonnets, wi’ their white headed staves and hod¬den grey jockey coats about them.Mess John says, Come awa Janet, we’re wait¬ing on you here.■ . . ;»( : ; ; ■! '•;*<Minister. Now Janet, where was this childgotten?Janet. A deed sir, it Was gotten amang theblack stanes, at the cheek of the crab holes.Mess John stares at her, not knowing theplace, but some of the elders did, Then saidhe, O Janet but the devil was busy with you attftat time. nQ ’juo bird aaasnl yJujtaJanet. A by my legs sir, that’s a great lieye’re telling now, for the de’il was nae there,■isthat I saw, nor ony body else, to bid us to do aething or anither; we lo’ed ither unco weel fora lang time before tliat, and syne we teild itheran agreed to marry ither like honest folk : thenmight na we learn' to do the thing married folkdo without the de’il helping us.Whisht, whisht, cried they, you should bescourged, false jillet he quiet, you’re speakingnonsence.Janet. De de’il’s in the carles, for you andyour minister’s are liars, when je say it is the de ilit was helping Sandy and me to get a bairn,Come, come, said they, put down the kirkdues, and come back to the stool the morn ; theprice is four pound, and a groat to the bell-man.Janet. The auld thief speed the darth o’t sir,far less might sair you and your bell-man baith.O but this is a warld indeed, when poor honestfolks maun pay for making use ot their ain a-—Ye misca’ the poor de’il ahint his back, an gi’eshim de wyte o’ a’ the ill in the kintry, bastardbairbs and every thing ; and it it be as ye sayye may thank de de’il tor that four pound an agroat l have gi’en ye, that gars your pat playbrown, and gets ye jockey coats, purl-handedsark-s, white headed and staves, when my father’spat wallops up rough bear and blue water.The woman is mad said they, for this money isall given to the poor of the parish.14Janet. The poor o’ the parish, said she, fienta hait yc gae them but wee pickles o’ pease meal,didna I see’t in their pocks: and the minister’s wifegies naething ava to unco beggars but bids themgang hame to their ain parishes; and yet ye’lltake the purse frae poor folk for naething bntplaying the loon jwee or they married, an’ synecock them up to be looked on and laughed at byevery body; a deil speed you and your justice, sir.Hute tute, ye're a’ coming on me like a wheencolly dogs huntini' a» a a poor ragged chapmanfrae the door. So out she goes cursing andgreeting. Sandy is next called upon, and in hegoes.Minister. Now Saunders, you must tell us howthe child was gotten.Sandy. \ now Mess John, sir, ye hae bairnso’ you ain, how did you get tl em. But yoursare a’ la Idles, and mine is but a lassie, if you’dtell me how you got your laddies, I II tell youhow I got my lassie, and then we’ll be baith alikegood o’ the business.The minister looks at him, and says, Hute,tute, Saunders, lay down four pound ane a groat'and come back to-morrow to the stool, and givesatisfaction to the congtegation; ye had moreneed to be seeking repentance for that abominablesin of uncleanness, than speaking so to me.Sandy. Well here is your siller, sir, I hae gottenbut poor penny worths for't, and so ye tell me to• 015repent for’t; what the auld thief needs I repent,when I’m gaun to marry the woman; and thenI hae to do’t o’er again every day, or there’llbe nae peace in the house; figs its nonesense topay siller, repent and do’t a^ain too. a great ad¬vice, indeed, maister minister, an that’s the wayto do.Willie. Now, sir, and ye maister elders, yemaunna put them on the black creepy till theybe married, the’ve suffered enough at ae time.Aweel, aweel. said they, but they must marryvery soon.I true, says Sandy, ye’ll be wanting some mairclink ; foul haet ye do for Moething here.Hame comes Saudy, starving o’ hunger; yemight a cast a note on his lang guts. HUmitlier was baking pease bunuocks, up he getsa lump o’ her leaven into his mouth. Auld thiefbe in your hagjes, bag, Sjndy, says his mifher,kii;k folk are a>e gready, ye hae been wi’ theministers a’ day : you’d ^et a gude lang grace, hemight a gi'enye meat too ; filthy dog that thou isyou ha’e the bulk o’ a little pye o’ my leavenin your guts; it would a saired ancs dinner saewad it een, but an ye keep a reeking houseand a rocking cradle three eleven years as 1 haedone, less o‘ that will serve you yet, baggy beastit thou is, mind it I bore thee now, a bea* youthat my dow.16The next exploit was an action at 1 iw, againstthe guilemm of Muirf-dge, a farmer, who livednear by. that kept sheep and swine. His sheepcame down and broke into their yards, and ate uptheir kail; the wild hares they thought belongedto the same man. as they ran to his house whenthey were hunted. The swine came very oftenin about their houses seeking fish guts and onytiling they could get; so it happened, when oneof the children was sitting easing itself, thatone of the swine tumbled it over, and bit a pieceout of its backside ! The whole town rose inan uproar against grumpily, as they called her,caught her. and took her before Wise Willie.He took an axe and cut two or three inches ofher long nose. Now, says he, I trow [ haemade thee something like another beast, thouhad sic a lang mouth before it wad frighteda very de’d to look at ye, but now ye’re facedlike a little horse or cow. The poor sow ranhome roaring, all blood, aad wanting the nose;which caused Muiredge to warn them in beforemy Lord. So the wives that had their kail eatenappeared first in the court, complaining againstMuiredge. Indeed, my Lord, said they, Muir¬edge is no a good man when is sic an illneighbour, he keeps black hares and white hares,little wee brown backed hares, with white arses,and loose wagging horns; they creep in at ourwater gush holes, and does the like, When wecry pussy, pussy, they rin hame to Muiredge ;17but I'll gar my colley hand their by the fit an I’llbaud them by the horn, an’ pu’ the hair aff them,and send them hame wanting the skin, as vvi‘Sowen Tammy’s wee sandy, for coding o’ hispease, he took aff the poor laddie’s coat, arid saedid he e’en. ,\nd Willie said, if you were a sowmy Lord, and me sittting droiting, and you to bitemy arse, sudna 1 hae amends of you for that ;Od, my Lord, ye widna hae a bite out of yourarse for tw'enity merks ; ye maun e’en gar \Iuif-edge give ten merks to buy a plaister, to heal thepoor bit wean’s arse again.Well said Willie, says my Lord ; but who putson the sow’s nose again.■\ fogs, my Lord, said Willie, she’s honesterlike wanting it, and she'll bite nae mair arsesAn ye had bane a nose my Lord, as lane: as thesow had, ye’d been obliged to ony body it wadcut a piece aft.A gentleman in coming past, near their townasked one of their wives where their collegestood ? said she give me a shilling and I’ll let yousee baith sides o't. He gives her the shillingthinking to see something curiou«. Now, saysshe, there’s the one side of your shilling, andthere’s the other, so it is mine now.Now, Wise Willie been greatly admiredfor his judgment in cutting off the sow’s nose,my Lord, in a mocking manner, made him burleybailie of buckhaven; Lang Sandy was Provost,18and John Thrums the weaver was dean of guild,But Witty Eppie had aye the casting vote in a*their courts and controversier.PART III.There happened one day a running horseto be standing at one of their doors, and a childgoing about, the horse trampled upon the child'sfoot, which caused the poor child to crv ; themother came running in a passion, crying, A waehe to you for a horse, filtey barb rion brute itthou is, settintr a muckle iron lufe on my bairnswe fittle. ()d sir. I'd rive the hair out o’your head, gripping the horse by the main andthe twa lugs, cuffing his ch ffs, as he had beenher fellow creature, crying Be go laddie I II garyou as good, I II take you afore Wise Willie thebaillie. an he'l cut aff your hand wi’ de iron lufeand \e‘!l be cripple; and gan>; thro’ the kintry ina barrow, or on twa shule staves, like Rab theRandy, and a meal pock about you neck. Her neighbour bearing and seeing what passed,cries, O you foolish tawpy, what gars you speakthat gite till a horse, he disna ken ae word thatye're saying to him.When Lang Sandy and Rolling Couching ,Jenny were married, their wedding took upthree days and two nigths, My Lord and my19Lady, with several other hwlies and gentlemenattended for diversions sake. The piper ofKirkcaldy and the fiddler of Klnghorn were bothbidden by A ise \\illie the bride’s father, andif any more came to play unbidden, A ilhe sworethey slnmd sit unsaired, for these twa sud geta’ de siller dat was to be gi’en or wan, Thatday the dinner and dorter-meat sat in Eppie *College, ami the dancing stood in tw» ringsbefore the door ; and the first day of the dauntinganil dandling ol theii'heels dang round the sea-dyke: some tumbled in. and some held hy thestones, the fiddler fell in o'er the lugs and druckithis fiuldle, the strings gade out o’ order, andthe tripe turned salt like pudding sk ins; so thepipes had to do for a', and the tiddler had naethingto do hut sup sail and pick banes wi' the restof them. Now my Lord’s cook was to orderthe kettle, but lang Pate o’ the pins played a sadpret, by casting twa pound o’ c mile among thekail, which made them so fat that some couldnot sup tbem. and the candle wicks came aye intotheir cutties like sutors' tinges in the dishes;but some wi‘ stronger stomachs, stripped themthrough their teeth like rats’ tails, and said,money ane wad be blythe o’ sic a string to tie uptheir hose in a pinch. My Lord and the gentry.Mess John and the clerk were all p aced atthd head of the table, opposite the bride, butwould sup none of their candle kail. Willieand the bridegroom served the table, and cried,Sup on a sorrow to ye, for I never liked sour20kail about my house. When the flesh came,the bride got a ram’s rumple to pick. yhe takesit up and wags it at my Lord, saying Ti-hee,my Lord, what an a piece, is this! Oh, saidmy Lord, that’s the tail piece, it belongs to you,bride. It’s no mines, I never had the like o’t,it’s a fish tail, see how it wags ,but it is a bit o’some dead beast. O yes, said he, bride, youhave hit it now; but how come you to eat withyour gloves on. Indeed, my Lord there’sa reason for dat too, I ha’e scabbed hand’s.O said he l cannot believe you. She pulled offa part of the glove and shewed him. O yes,said he, I see it is so. Aha, said she, but I wishye saw my arse, my Lord, its a’ in a hatter.O fie, William, said my Lord, I wonder youdon’t teach your daughter to speak with moremodesty. But my sae, my Lord, ye may as weelkiss her arse. 1 find so, said my Lord, But it isfor want of a teacher.The next dish that was set on the tablewas roasted hens; and the bride’s portion beinglaid on the plate, she says to my Lord, will yelet me dip my foul arse amang your sauce!Upon my word, said my Lord, I will not if it beas ye tell me. Hout my Lord, said the bride,it’s no my arse, it’s but the hen’s that I mean,O but said he it's the fashion for every one toeat of his own trencher, you may get moresauce, I can manage my own myself. Indeedmy Lord, said she, I thought you liked me better21nor ony it'ner body. True said ne, but I likemyself best, and you should not speak M of mylady for she hears you, Deed my Lord I thjni: ye’rethe best body about t ie house, for my Lady'sbut a stinking pridfu’ jide, she thinks that wesud make de fish and de baddies a’ alive; be-gomy Lord she thinks we can sh^pcthcm as de hendoes her egg wf her arse. O bride, says he,you should not speak ill of my lady, lor she hearsyou very well. O deed my Lord. 1 had naemind o’ dat. Drink to me then said lie, or themyou like best. Then says she, here's to>e a’ degidder heels o’erhetd. Veiy weel said, says myLord , that’s good sense.Dinner being over my Lord desired thebride to dance. Indeed, my Lord, said sheI canna dance ony, but I II gar my wame wallopfoment yours, and then we’il rin round aboutas fast as we can. Very well, bride, said lie, thatwill just do,; we shall neither kLs nor shakehands, but I’d bow to thee, and ye’ i beck to me,so we’Ii have done. So after the dinner anddancing, my Loul exhorted the bride to fie agood neighbour, and to ‘gree with every bodyround about. 1 wat weel my Lord, said she,ye ken I ne'er coast out uT ony ane but langPate o’ the Pans, an' he had a’ de wyte o’l ; bebegun and was aye jeering me about Sandy,e!e black stanes and de crab holes where de weanwas gotten ; and then it turned to a hubbub ancullyshangy, and, or ere you could kiss my arse,my Lord we was aboon itbrr on tbe musse! mid¬den. I trow I tell’d him o' Handy Rab, hi*uncle, his ain titty that steal'd de sarks and drankde siller, and how his mither sal’d mauky mutton,and mair than a’ that, my Lord.My Lord had a friend, a captain in thearmy, who came to visir him, and having heardof the Backers’ sayings and exploits, was desirousto see them. My Lord, put them in a fright,sent his servant to order them all, men andwomen, to come up before hi* gate to-morrow,about kail time; and all ‘hat did not come, wa*to flit, and remove out of my Lord's grounddirectly. I'liis put the whole town into » terribleconsternation some ran to V\ ise Willie, to seeif he cou d tell what he meant. A'illie said, thatit was before something; and he said he was suredeath w >s the worst o’t, come what will. ButWitty Eppie, said, I ken weel wh t's to come,he’s gaun to make de men o s a’ sodgers, andthe wives dragoons, because they're the bestfighters; I keu there’s something to came onthe torn, for our Naocv saw Maggy’s ghaist thestreen, it was buried about four weeks smsyne.A hech co’ * illie, that's a sign the meal’s dear inthe ither wrrld, when she comes hack to thisane again; we’ I take our dinner afore we gaeto my Lord, we,II may he ne’er come back again.So away the> went lamenting, all in a crowdMy I ,«>rd and the Captain was looking over thewindow, when they arrived; and the Captain(S3crie* to them, to the right about. To whichthey answered O bless you, my Lord, what isda't man saying; Says my Lord, he bids youturn you face to Maggy’s hill, and your a to the sea, which they did in all haste. An whatwhat will we do now? said willie. No more, saidmy Lord, but go all home, Wil ie. O my dearMy blessing come on your bonny face, myLord, I wish you may nerer die. nor never growsick, nor nae body fell you, ye are the best manin a the world, for we thought a’ to be deadmen or sodgers, ye're wiser than a’ the witcheson the coast o’ Fife or in a‘ the world.There was a custom in Bucky Harbour,when they got hearty drink, that they wentdown to dance among the boats., at.d two orthree of the oldest went into a boat to see therest dance. Ami when the\ admitted a burgherthere was always a dance. One day they ad¬mitted gly'd Bob, who was a warlock, and madethem all stop their dancing; for which he wascarried before V\ i*e Wi lie, to answer for this,bis crime ; for which he was banished to the isleof Mat, at the month of the Frith of Forth, tocarry coals to the Light House.The Bucky lads and lassies, when they go togather bait, tell strange stories about ghostsand witches, V\illie wi* the Up, and Kelpyfairies, maukins. anti bogles of all sorts. Theythink the ghosts go all night like horses.CHfor fear of being seen, and be made to carryskate fish and dulce, They think witches are thewarst kind of devils, and make use of cats to rideupon,'or kail kebbers and besom shafts, and thatthey sail over the sea in cockle shells, and be¬witches lads and lasses and disables bridegrooms.They think Willie and the Wisp is a fiery devil,and leads people off their road to drown them inthe sea. t hey think Kelpy is a sly devil, androars before a loss at sea, And they believe thatthe Fairies lift new born bairns from their mothersat.d that none of them are safe to lie with theirmothers, for a night or two after they areborn, unless the mother gets a pair of men’sbreeches under her head, which sets the fairiesadrift. Hut if they neglect to do this, they saythe fairies will carry off the child, and leave ablock of wood with the mother.adt ao? ot ten j; ojru ji i » ■ i p ‘jdl <> Mint-!>» mill vah‘>nO .9‘jtn h I «vn«l« iB»• Jdghi) 1(1 .■ ■ ■tig orli tintd)VlmlihuoH>A bui; rfi-iiT ..ssfion i