Celebrated Highland Freebooter}GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,OF SCOTLAND ^\.■V.', * • - '. * !;< 3 r am o rximtkM ■ - 1.ROB ROY: Fbutk Oibaldistokk, a young man of a respectable family,had been several years at Bourdeaux, for the purpose of being1} instructed in the mercantile profession, when he was suddenly; recalled by his father. During his residence abroad, Frank haddevoted more time to the pursuits of literature than the ledger,and, therefore, when interrogated by his father with regard to■ the state of commerce in France, he discovered so much ignor¬ance, that the old gentleman was highly displeased, and blamedMr. Dubourg, to whose charge he had been committed. Frankexculpated that gentleman from all blame, and said that it washis own fault, as he felt no inclination for business. However,j as he intended Frank to take a management in his own extensiveI concerns, Mr. Osbaldistone wished to put him under the chargeof Mr. Owen, who had been long his own principal clerk, andhad now a small share in the banking business ; but Frank pro¬fessed his dislike to the profession, and refused to comply withhis father’s wishes. Mr. O^baldistone then asked his son whathis own grave projects were ; and on Frank saying he should■> like, either to travel for a few years, or attend the university, o.| obtain a commission in the army, he told him, in a rage, thatunless he consented to his wishes, his nephew should inherit alllj his property, and gave him a month to consider of the proposal.I: During this interval, Mr. Owen tried to prevail with Flank, by1 every argument he could adduce, to come into his father’s terms ;but it was to no purpose ; for, on the day appointed, he repeatedto his father the aversion he had to the mercantile profession,hoping, at the same time, that by his refusal he would not forfeitthe affection of a parent. Mr. Osbaldistone, on hearing Frank’sultimatum, told him, that since he refused to remain at home, heshould immediately go to his uncle’s, at Osbaldistone Hall, irrYcfrkshire, until some other arrangements were made.Accordingly, next day, Frank set off on horseback for York¬shire, with fifty guineas in his pocket. During the journey, hebegan to reflect that he had probably made himself au outcastfrom his family, and lost tire affection of his father by his stub¬bornness ; but, although he regretted what he had done, yet hispride would not allow him to return, and he continued his jour-1 ney in very depressed spirits.In the country through which he passed there were few object.'In to amuse a young traveller, except the conversation of a fewstrangers, such as country parsons, farmers, graziers, merchants,travellers, and now and then a recruiting officer ; from whom»r*aJt MMtomd information about creeds and times, cattle andtorn, price of commodities, and a discretion of battles. A lea pimg topic with all of them was robberies ; and such details we »given, as to raise serious apprehensions of being attacked. The ifwas one man in particular, with whom Frank travelled a dJIand a half, who was very much afraid of highwaymen ; and tl. man had a large portmanteau, which he always carried into tlinns himself, sutfering no one to touch it. Frank, in orderamuse himself, inquired the weight and contents of his portma;teau ; which alarmed the man so much, that he grew pale, hiteeth chattered, and his hair stood erect; but on approaching ftDarlington his fears subsided, and they soon arrived in safetythe sign of the Black Bear.Formerly, it was the custom of travellers to rest on the Sifftiday, and for the landlords of inns, on that day, to invite all thellguests to a family dinner. Frank and his companion havinHtaken up their quarters for the Sunday at the above inn, sJdown to a public dinner with the other guests, among whom thet tiwas a Scotchman of hardy features and athletic figure. Fran Ihad been early prejudiced against Scotsmen by the stories of h:lnurse, and he regarded him with a settled dislike ; but the shrew Kremarks, ready answers, and confidently-delivered opinions of th |Scotsman, Mr. Campbell, gave him no small importance on th |present occasion. A quarrel having taken place about politics IIthe dispute was referred to and settled by Mr. Campbell ove |.mother bottle, and then the company separated.Next day Frank pursued his journey, and was delighted witHthe fine diversified scenes that everywhere met his view till h<|came in sight of Osbaldistone Hall, a huge antique castle, surilrounded by stately oaks. He was only at a short distanse froitljthe mansion, when the blast of a French horn was heard, and rillpack of fox-hounds crossed the road, followed by the hunters.!Frank drew up his horse to let them pass without interruption.Hand had an opportunity of examining the whole group, whicllconsisted of five young men and a very handsome female, all 'veliHmounted and well dressed. In passing, the lady’s horse started!out of the course, and Frank hastened to offer his services ; butjijthere was no occasion, for she easily brought the animal to order, !and gallopped ofi'. Frank followed her, and soon heard the signal!of the fox’s death ; but the young lady, on reaching her com-!panions, drew their attention towards Frank, and requested one it»f her cousins to speak to him. However, as the young manjldeclined it, she rode up to Frank, and inquired, if, in the course Hof his travels, he had met with a Mr. Francis Osbaldistone, whom!they expected at the Hall.On Frank acknowledging himself to be the person, the lady Hinformed him that her name was Diana .Vernon, a relation »of h:s uncle’s, and then introduced him to Squire Thorncliffs tOsbaldistonr, Ins cousin. As Miss Vernon accompanied Frank' to the castle, she interrogated him by the way without any cere*mony, and on their reaching the gate, put the bridle of her horseinto his hand.After waiting a considerable time, he was at last relieved byone of the huntsmen,-who took the horses, and a servant con¬ducted him into a hall, where he met with his uncle Sir Hilde¬brand, and was introduced to the rest of the family. After din¬ner, the bottle was circulated so freely, that the company soonexhibited a scene of boisterous mirth and intoxication ; but Frank,being temperate in his habits, made his escape into the garden.When Frank returned to the castle, and had retired to his, apartment for the night he began to reflect seriously on his situation. The society of his cousins would furnish him with little orno entertainment, as they delighted only in horses, hounds, andI drinking; but he anticipated much pleasure from the company ofthe lively Miss Vernon, who had made a deep impression on hisj heart. Next morning Frank accompanied his cousins and MissVernon on a hunting expedition, and when the party were en¬gaged in pursuing the fox, Miss Vernon told Frank she hadsomething particular to communicate, and taking him to the sum¬mit of an adjoining hill, she pointed out Scotland, which she saidhe might reach in two hours. Frank asked, why she wished himto go there? “To provide for your safety,” answered MissVernon ; “ you are accused of having robbed one Morris, whomyou travelled with to Darlington.” Frank was startled at so un¬founded a charge, and begged to know before whom this extra¬ordinary accusation was laid, that he might instantly refute it.Miss Vernon told him, that the information had been lodgedwith ’Squire Inglewood, whose house was only a few miles dis¬tant, whither she would accompany him. Frank remonstratedwith her on the impropriety of the proposal; but the young ladywould have her own way, and accordingly they proceeded towardsthe residence of the jusitce.On arriving at Inglewood Place, they found Sir Hildebrand1 Osbaldistone and Rashleigh in the court-yard. Miss Vernonaccosted the latter, and asked whether he had been talking tor the Justice about Frank’s affair? 'Rashleigh replied that he hadt been exerting all his influence to serve his cousin ; and then$*, turning to Frank, said that it would be more advisable for himr:a to retreat into Scotland till the business could be “smoothedrs* over,” than appear before the Justice when presumptions wereso strong against him. Frank, indignant at Rashleigh for re-‘commending such a subterfuge, and entertaining suspicions of his<)' icriminality, replied, that he would have the matter investigated,and his character cleared from such a vile calumny, Rashleighrii1 iasisted that Miss Vernon at least should not interfere in thobnifness; but when he found her determined to remain till it waJpffully settled, he left them ; and the young lady conducted Franlwinto the house. Frank had followed Miss Vernon up stairs tcFIthe door of the dinning-room, where she left him to find a ser¬vant to introduce her ; but, being tired with waiting, Frankopened the door, and told the justice that his name was Osbaldis-tone, and that he had come to inquire into a charge, which somescoundrel had laid against him for alledged robbery. It so hap¬pened that Morris was present at dinner, and the Justice inquiredof him, whether this was the gentleman he implicated ? Morris,alarmed at Frank’s resolute appearance, replied, that “ hecharged nothing against the gentleman,” at the same time whis¬pered, that he withdrew his accusation against Frank, as he didnot know “ how many rogues might be in the house to back him.”Miss Vernon now entered the room, where she was kindly receivedby the old Justice, and telling him her errand, requested to hearthe charge against Frank. It stated, that the declarant, Mr.Morris, had been attacked by two highwaymen in masks, whotook his portmanteau from him, and that he heard one of themcall the other Osbaldistone, whom he suspected to be the sameperson who accompanied him to Darlington. Frank protestedagainst the evidence, as incompetent to prove that he was therobber, and was offering to produce arguments to shew his inno¬cence of the charge, when a servant entered and told the Justicethat a strange gentleman wished to see him.This stranger was Mr. Campbell, the cattle-dealer, whomMorris and Frank had met at Darlington, who, having heardthat Frank was unjustly accused, had come to relieve him fromthe prosecution. He stated, that Morris accompanied him severalmiles on the road towards Scotland, where he was attacked bytwo highwaymen, who carried of his portmanteau ; but that oneof them, whom his companion addressed by the name of Osbadis-tone, was a much shorter and thicker man, and had a ditfer-ent complexion and visage from the young gentleman present.After delivering this deposition, he asked Morris if he would nott'orego his' prosecution of Mr. Osbaldistone ; to which Morrisconsented, hnd Campbell offering to conduct him safely home,they departed together. Matters being thus settled, Miss Ver¬non and Frank also took leave of ’Squire Inglewood, who washappy in having got rid of this troublesome business.Next day, at breakfast, Sir Hildebrand congratulated Frankon his escape, and advised him to be more cautious of his futureconduct. Frank could not -help expressing indignation at thesuspicions which his uncle entertained, and Kashleigh was ap¬parently displeased at his father also; but the old gentlemanlooking stedfastlv at Rashleigh, told him 41 he was a sly loon,’’,but that t: two faces under otic head was not true heraldry," andinstantly left the room. Frank, being left alone with Rashleigh,signified to him the unpleasant nature of his situation, in livingwith an uncle who believed him guilty of so disgraceful a crime,and said that he was determined to leave Osbaldistone Hall im¬mediately. 'Rashleigh approved of his resolution, and said, thatfrom Frank’s attainments in literature, he might soon make afigure in the world ; but his own case was still more deplorable,for his father had resolved that he should follow the mercantileprofession. After some conversation on these subjects, Frankrequested Rashleigh to give him some information ; but it waswith evident reluctance that he complied. He told Frank, thathe had been formerly more intimate with Miss Vernon ; but hadthought it prudent to withdraw as much as possible from the com¬pany of a susceptible girl, whose heart must be either given t»the cloister, or to a betrothed husband ; that, by a family contract, she was destined to marry one of Sir Hildebrand’s sous,and that Thornclitfe had been pitched upon by his father ej heipartner ; but that, if he, Rashleigh, acquired wealth in the mer¬cantile profession, he would marry her himselfiFrank, being strongly attached to Miss Vernon, was muchmortified to find that she was the destined wife of another, and,after reproaching himself for becoming the dupe of her artifices,and blaming her for not informing him of the situation in whichshe stood with the Osbaldistone family, came down to dinner ina very bad humour. At table, Miss Vernon, as usual, began toplay of her raillery upon Frank ; but he returned it with suchacrimony, that she was ofl'ended, and, accusing him of impolite¬ness to a female who wished to be on good terms with him, shesoon after left the room. Frank began to regret the shamefulmanner in which he had behaved to Miss Vernon, and, in orderto stifle his reflections, drank till he became so intoxicated, thathe quarrelled with his cousins, and struck Rashleigh, who, how¬ever, did not think it worth while to resent the outrage. Thorncliffe challenged Frank to decide their quarrel with the sword ;but, after exchanging one or two thrusts, the combatants wereseparated, and Frank was carried off and locked in his apart¬ment, from which he in vain attempted to break out. In themorning his passion had abated, and, sensible of the improprietyof his conduct, he made an apology to Rashleigh, which wasaccepted in a very gractous manner. This disagreeable businessbeing settled amicably, Frank next thought of procuring an ex¬planation with Miss Vernon, who anticipated his wist), by re¬queuing his attendance in the library to expound an obscure pas¬sage ('f. Dante which she had met with. On reaching the library,Miss Vernon began to lajly Frank most unmercifully upon theexhibition he had made at tab> the night before, and, in a strainof itoti'i , atjiiiiuf. ted of courage ha had dis-played in his attack ou Rashleigh, and in his combat with Thorn- Ucliffe, at the same time expressing her extreme sorrow that such 1an unpleasant affair had happened. Frank apologized for his I)behaviour, by alleging, that the provocation he received had iurged him to resent it in an unguarded moment, when his passions |were roused by the influence of liquor. Miss Vernon then ■spoke of the indiscretion with which he had treated her during 1dinner, and inquired if he had heard anything to lessen her in Ihis estimation. Frank, confounded at this question, at first de- Hdined giving any reply ; but she persisted in demanding an ex- wplanation, and particularly, whether Rashleigh had said any Ithing prejudicial to her character. However, he evaded her re- Iquest, on the pretext that it was improper to disclose the subject Iof a private conversation, which was delivered in confidence ; Ibut she grew so importunate, that Frank at last related all that 1he had heard from Rashleigh. Miss Vernon, shuddering with 1indignation, said, that she would rather die than marry such a 9villain as Rashleigh ; and disclosed the methods which he had |employed to conupt her moral principles in the course of herjuvenile education, and the artifices he afterwards employed toseduce her. On discovering Rashleigh’s intentions, she with¬drew from his society, and had ever after regarded him withdetestation. Frank, astonished at this disclosure, drew his sword,and was preparing to leave the room in order to take vengeanceou Rashleigh, but was prevented by Miss Vernon.In a few days after this, Rashleigh set out for London, andFrank then enjoyed the company of Diana Vernon without re.serve ; and being intrusted to superintend the finishing of hereducation, he found her one of the most intelligent and accom- jpiished of her sex.Frank now endeavoured to render himself as agreeable as pos¬sible to the family' at Osbaldistone Hall, and succeeded in gain¬ing the good graces of his uncle, by assisting in settling his ac¬counts ; and he became a still greater favourite with his cousins,by joining in their amusements. As Frank was often strollingabout, he occasionally took a walk into the garden, where he wasmuch diverted with the remarks of Andrew Fairservice. Oneday Andrew informed him, that he had met with one Pate Mac-ready', a pedlar, who told him that the affair of Morris and hisportmanteau had been brought before the Parliament at I.unnan,and also, that ’Squire Inglewood, Sir Hildebrand Osbaldistone,and some other folks besides, had been mentioned ; and that,after much altercation, the business had been dismissed as a falseand calumnious libel. Frank expressed a wish to see Macready;which Andrew immediately gratified, by bringing him to thegarden. Macrendy related to Frank the particulars of the trial,from which it appeared, that the depositions of Morris were 109contradiclary, that they could not be received as competent evi¬dence. Frank -was both vexed and perplexed that this affairshould have become so notorious; and after ordering the pedlarj so send him some articles, and giving a small present to AndrewFairservice for his trouble, he returned home, deliberating howhe should vindicate his character.As Frank’s mind could not be at ease while the robbery otMorris was laid to his charge, he determined on setting out forLondon to explain the whole affair to his father, and take hisadvice respecting the most effectual means of disproving thecalumny. Before departing, however, he wrote to his father thei object of his visit; and, while delivering his letter at the post-j office, he received one from Owen, endorsing a draft for £10(1,to supply his present necessities. On returning to OsbaldistoneFlail, Frank found that the family had gone to Trinlay-knowe,and he sauntered into the garden to hear if Fairservice hadj picked up any fresh news. While engaged in conversation, theyobserved the door of a small room in the corner of the garden' half open, and were at a loss to conjecture who could be there,as it Was never freqented by any of the family but Bashleigh.Andrew supposed that it was then occupied by Father Vaughan,a grave old Catholic priest, a particular acquaintance of Rash-leigh’s, and a confidant of Miss Vernon, with whom he had fre-; quent interviews. Frank could not comprehend this mysterious1 intercourse, and suspected that the priest was either giving heri religious instruction, or preparing her for the cloister ; and these■ conjectures made him very unhappy, from the attachment he en¬tertained for that lady. Frank now began to watch every motionof Miss Vernon with minute attention, which gave her great of¬fence ; yet they never came to an explanation. One day, as theywere sitting in the library, she inquired if he had lately heardfrom his father. On Frank replying in the negative, she ob¬served that it was very strange, for his fatheryhad gone to Hol¬land on some urgent business, leaving Rashleigh with the solemanagement of his affairs till he returned, and she urged him toset of immediately for London, lest his cousin should involve hisfather’s business in irretrievable ruin. Frank expressed his ConI cern at this intelligence, and great reluctance to leave her, whomi he loved above all the world ; but Miss Vernon told him, thati his affections were misplaced, as she had resolved to spend theremainder of her days in a convent. After quitting the apart¬ment, Frank retired to his own, where the thoughts of his father’saffairs, and the resolution of Miss Vernon, prevented him fromenjoying any rest the ensuing night; but he determined, beforeleaving Osbaldistone Hall, to find out the reason, if possible, orher mysterious conduct, and ascertain her real character.Accordingly, one Sunday' evening, he took his station In theI ' ' '''10g;iid«-u. Al'er wasting impiitiently for some time, he saw thegiiimm'rhig of a candle, and he entered the library, where helomid Oiana alone and much flnrried. On her inquiring thecause of his visit at so unseasonable an hour, he pretended tohave come for Orlando Furioso, and turning over some books, hedescried a man’s glove lying on the table. Diana, blushingdeeply, said it was her grandfather’s, which she kept as a relic ;hut as this explanation did not satisfy Frank, she told him thatit belonged to a friend whom she honoured, esteemed, and loved.Frank made some sarcastic observations, and Miss Vernon toldhim that she would discover no more than she had already done •,but that, as they were soon to part for ever, she begged that theymight still be J'rie/tds, and gave him a letter she had receivedfrom London, containing the intelligence of Kashleigh havingcarried off bills to a very large amount belonging to his father,with which he had departed for Scotland, and that Frank’s re¬latives wished him to repair to Glasgow in search of the fugitive.Next mottling Frank prepared to leave Osbaldistone Mali ;but his feelings were much agitated, both by the state of hisfather’s affairs, and on account of his separation from Miss Ver¬non. At Glasgow, he was to meet with (Jwen, who had alreadygone their in pursuit of Rashleigh ; but, being unacquainted withthe road to Scotland, he repaired to Andrew Fairservice for In¬struction respecting the route he should pursue, and found himreading a volume of Dr. Lightfoot aloud, lu frighten away theghaists, as he said, by godly exercise. Andrew offered to ac-comany him, as he had been long thinking of Jiitting from Osbaldistone Hall ; and, accordingly, it was agreed that they shouldset off together next morning by five o’clock. Frank was up bytwo o’clock, and, after leaving a letter on the table for his uncle,he saddled his horse, and arrived at the cottage of Andrew Fair-set vice, who was already mounted on a naig, and waiting to at¬tend him. Frank otdered him to ride as quickly as possible, andAndrew pushed on his naig at the rate of eight or ten miles anhour, by unfrequented paths, through moors and bogs, and overhill and dale, without dimutishing his speed. Frank, unable tokeep up with him, hallooed in vain to him to stop ; but on threat¬ening to blow out his brains, Andrew drew up his naig, andapologized for riding so fast, by saying, that “he had taken astirrup-cup of brandy at parting with his o’J cronies, which madehim a little flighty that morning.” Ha’ mg arrived at Glasgowon a Sunday, when the people were al' m church, they alightedat an inn, and Frank inquired at the landlady for Messrs Mac-vittie, Macfin, and Company, from whom he expected to hear ofMr. Owen ; but he was told that these good people would be at¬tending public worship at the Barony Laigh Kirk. Frank pro¬ceeded thither, accompanied by Andrew Fairservice, and was11•truck ivhii ailmiratibii at ilie imigihficeiit 6! lliatancient edifice, which Andrew informed him had been saved fr'omj destruction at the Reformation, by the townsmen agreeing tb de¬liver up the idolatrous statues of tile scuits.Frank looked round the congregation, to see if he could dis-I cover Owen among them, but in vain; and Was just about, tof leave the church to go in quest of him, when he heard a voicefrom behind a pillar whisper distinctly in his ear, “ You are indanger in this city.” He startled at this mysterious caution,especially as he could not perceive from whence it proceeded, and, resolved to remain, to afford the unknown monitor an opportunity• if renewing his warning. In a few minutes the voice repeated,: “ You are in danger in this place—so am I ;—meet me on thebrig at twelve precisely ;—keep at home till the gloaming, andavoid observation.” Frank saw and' attempted to follow thestranger down stairs ; but as he could not overtake him, he. waited till the congregation was dismissed.| When Frank reached the inn, he reflected seriously on theadmonition given him, and whether he ought to keep the appoint¬ment with the stranger ; but, after some consideration, he deter-n lined to meet his mysterious counsellor. Having walked aboutlill twelve o’clock, Frank entered upon the bridge, and saw aperson wrapped up in a cloak, who told him that he was the per¬son whom he came to meet; and desired him to follow, that hemight see with his own eyes what was of importance for him toknow. Frank was rather unwilling to accompany the stranger ;but, lest he should be thought a coward, he followed his conduc¬tor. As they passed along the streets, the stranger gave such asuspicions account of himself, that Frank would hardly consentto go farther, till he urged the necessity of Iris proceeding in order-o learn from a person in prison the danger of his own situation.On arriving at the prison gate the stranger knocked ; and, aftersaying something to the turnkey, which Frank did not understand,they both entered the jail, where a friendly conversation tookplace betwixt his guide and the turnkey, who seen.ed to he oldacquaintances. The turnkey then gave a sign to Frank to followhim, and led him up several stairs, till they came to a smallj apartment, where he observed a person asleep. This was poorMr. Owen, who, on recognising Frank, conjectured he was alsobrought to jail, and he began to lament the misfortunes whichhad befallen his fisher ; but Frank interrupted him, by inquir-Img the cause of his imprisonment. Owen told him, that imme¬diately on his arrival at Glasgow, Re had called on Messrs Mac-vittie, Macfin, and Company, with whom Mr. Osbaldistone, hisfather, did most of his business, to consult them about the stateof his affairs ; but, on finding that the house of Osbaldistone andJTresham was Considerably indebted to them, they behaved very12111, and had thrown him into jail, on account of his being a part¬ner of the Loftdon firm: that, in these deplorable circumstances,he had sent an account of his situation to Bailie Nicol Jarvie, aGlasgow merchant, with whom Mr. Osbaldistone sometimes didbusiness; but that he had no sanguine expectations from thatquarter.However, in this Owen was agreeably disappointed ; for, allthough the Bailie was going to bed when the letter came, heimmediately dressed himself, and set out for the prison, wherehe arrived shortly after Frank’s introduction to Owen. Thenoise which the Bailie made at the door alarmed Frank’s guide,who attempted to make his escape ; but the worthy magistrateprevented him, by giving orders to the captain of the jail, whenhe came in, to lock the door and allow no one to pass upon hisperil. The stranger entered their apartment before the Bailie ;and the latter, after some conversation with Owen on the afi'airsof Mr. Osbaldistone, and blaming him for extending his specula¬tions so far, produced his own ledger, from which it appearedthat the London house owed him also a large balance. Never¬theless, the Bailie told Owen, that, as it was impossible for himto redd up the business in prison, he should find caution for hisappearance, and then he would be set at liberty ; but, as Owensaid he knew of no one to whom he could apply, the Bailiegenerously olfered to become bail himself.While conversing with Owen, the Bailie had taken no noticeof Frank and his conductor ; but, when about to leave the apart¬ment, he examined the stranger, and then exclaimed, “ Ye rob¬ber, ye cateran, ye born deevil, that ye are, can this be you ?”“ E’en as you say,” replied he. The Bailie continued his abuse,and even added threats of punishment; but the stranger told him,calmly, that he would never put them in execution, for the sakeof auld langsyne, for their relationship, and for fear of the con¬sequences. The honest Bailie was reproaching him for his actsof theft-boot, black-mail, spreaghs, and gill-ravaging, when thestranger requested he would not speak more on these subjects,and his “counting-room should not be cleaned out when theGillan-a-naillie came to redd up the Glasgow buiths." TheBailie consented not to inform against him, and then pointing toFrank, inquired if that was not some gill-ravager he had listedinto his service ? Owen said it was Mr. Francis Osbaldistone,the only son of his worthy master. The Bailie observed, that hehad heard of the hopeful youth before ; and then reproachedFrank for renouncing the mercantile profession to become a poetand a gentleman, and asked if his poetry would “procure himfive thousand pounds to answer his father’s bills, which would bedue in ten days ?” Frank was displeased at the Bailie’s taunt;but, while musing on what he heard, he hastily drew out a letter13given him by Diana Vernon, which was not to be opened tillwithin ten days of any emergency. Another letter was enclosed,which fell at the feet of the Bailie, who took it up, and, seeingit was addressed to Robert Campbell (the unknown stranger), hedelivered it into his hands. Frank was confounded to recognisein his guide his old acquaintance the drover, and wondered whatcould be the purport of Miss Vernon’s letter to him ; but con¬jecturing that it might be sent to entreat Campbell to discoverthe retreat of Rashleigh, he was led to enquire where his kins¬man was. Campbell gave an indirect answer, but requestedFrank and the Bailie to meet him at the clachan of Aberfoyle,where he would disclose something that might be of service tothem both, and he would pay Bailie Jarvie a thousand poundsScots which he then owed him. After giving their consent topay Rob a visit, they all left the prison, and Frank accompaniedthe Bailie to his house, where, being warned by him not to keepcompany m’ Hielandmen and thae wild cattle, he received aninvitation to breakfast next morning, and then took his leave.Next morning, Owen and Frank breakfasted with the Bailie,and in the course of conversation, Frank made some inquiriesabout Mr. Campbell. The Bailie said, that Rob, as he calledhim, had once been a Highland drover, but was now a gentle¬man, and commanded “ thirty waur cattle and he declinedentering farther into his history, saying, it was more necessary t«examine his father’s accounts. After putting on his spectacles,he looked into the ledger, and found that the sum which Osbal-distone and Company owed him was considerable ; but, withgreat generosity, he said, that if he should lose by them, he hadalso gained, and therefore he would just “ lay the head of thesow to the tail of the grice.”Meditating on his present prospects, and projecting schemesfor his future conduct, Frank strolled first into the College, andthen into a solitary adjoining walk, at the end Of which jte ob¬served three men in earnest conversation. To his surprise, hefound them to be Rashleigh, Macvittie, and Morris, the two lastof whom went away, and afforded him an opportunity of accost¬ing Rashleigh, who was much confused at the rencounter. Frankdemanded an account of the property wjth which he had abscon¬ded, or to go before a magistrate ; but as Rashlcigh declineddoing either, he insisted on satisfaction, and they retired to amore remote place to settle the quarrel with their swords. Theyfought with equal skill and courage for some time, until Frank’sfoot slipped, and then Rashleigh made a home-thrust at him,which grazed his ribs. The pain it occasioned made Frankfutious, and grappling with his adversary, he was attempting torun him through the body, when they were stopt by the power¬ful arm of Campbell, who swore he would “ cleave to the brisketHthe first that minted another stroke. ” After trying in vain labring about a reconciliation between them, Campbell forcibly dis¬engaged Frank’s hand from bis antagiohlst’s roller. . \ desiredRasltleigh to leave them. At 'tieparting, Rasliletgh said, thatas the quarrel had not been settled, they would meet again atsomd future opportunity ; and Frank was for following him butCampbell mentioned that Rashleigh had engaged Morris to re¬new his accusation against, him for the robbery, therefore Frankthought it prudent to desist. Campbell warned him to keepout of the sight of Rashleigh, Morris, and Macvittie, and then,after renewing his invitation to visit him at the clachan ofAberfoyle, he went away.Frank called at an apothecary’s to get his wound dressed, arathen went to dine with the Bailie. Frank related his meetingwith Rashleigh, and mentioned what he had learned fromCampbell ; to which the Bailie and Owen listened with amaze¬ment. He then asked the worthy magistrate’s advice regardingthe propriety and safety of visiting Campbell. The Bailie,highly pleased at being consulted' thought that it wo61 cl'be ad¬visable, that Frank should leave Glasgow for a while ; anddescribed the Highlanders as an uncivilized and lawless set:That Robert Campbell alias -Rob Roy Macgregor, was once agreat drover, or grazer and dealer in cattle, a business followedby gentlemen of property in the Highlands, and had by hisbold speculations suffered some severe losses, which so reducedhim that he became a levier of the black-mail, a customary tri¬butary tax, imposed by those lawless depredators, of four poundsScots on one hundred pounds of vauled rent, to secure propertyfrom Skaith, or to recover any cattle that were stolen: That anyone refusing to pay this tribute was certain of being plundeiedby Rob, who could raise live hundred men, all devoted to hisservice ; and that, although Morris suspected him of the robbery,he wai afraid to accuse him. The Bailie added, That as Frank’sfather, had granted hills for d great quantity of wood bought inthe Highlands, which he bad:’no, means of retiring, unless theassets and money carried off by Rashleiglt to some of the High¬land haulds could be recovered, and that it was in Rob Roy’spower to de this if he liked ; hut as this could not be done intime to save his father’s credit, that he had got three individualsfn Glasgow to advance ft sum sufficient for the purpose. TheBailie undertook to accompany Frank to Aberfoyle, where, byrepresenting tire matter to Rob, who had a good heart, he hoped,through his means, to gain possession of it.Accordingly, next morning, at five o’clock, he was equippedin his trot-cosey, jack-boots, and other riding-gear, ready tomount, when Frank arrived at his door. After some delay,occasioned by the knavery of Andrew Fairservice, and by the15Bailie’s housekeeper* Mattie, tying a silk handkerchief roundher master’s neck, they --- out for the Highlands, and the partyin due time arrived at the clachan of Aberfoyle.Having drawn up their horses at the inn, the sound of severalvoices made them hesitate to alight; at last they rapped, butthe landlady refused to admit them, saying, “her house wasta’en up wi’ them that wadna like to be intruded on wi’ strangers.”The Bailie was unwilling to enter; but Frank insisted, that hemust have some refreshment, and therefore ordered the horses tobe put into the stable. On entering the principal room of thispaltry inn, they saw a blazing fire of turf, near which sat threemen, drinking and engaged in conversation-; two of them dressedin the Highland costume, and the other in tire Lowland, all bold¬looking, stout men, equipped with swords and pistols, and theirnaked dirks were stuck upright on the table, while anotherHighlander lay slumbering on the floor. Frank and his tworomrades having seated themselves near the fire, desired ihelandlady to give them something for supper. The three,menturned raund, and after staring at them for a few minutes, oneof them asked how they could have the assurance to break inupon “gentlemens that had taken up the public-house on theirain business.” Frank and the Bailie apologized, by saying thatthey meant no offence, and had come to the inn to get some refresh¬ment but this explanation not satisfying them, the Highlander,unsheathing his broad-sword, desired them to draw ; and as theywere three to three, he advanced to Frank, who put himself ina posture of defence. The other Highlander, with his sworddrawn, confronted the Bailie, who in vain tried to pull out hisSword, which was so rusted in the sheath from long disuse, thathe was forced to look about for some other weapon of defence.However, as a substitue, he drew a red-hot poker from the fire,and brought it against his antagonist with such effect, that heset his plaid in a blaze. Andrew immediately took to his heels,and his antagonist, the Lowlander, crying out, “ fair play,”would take no part in the fray, but remained neuter. Frankand the Bailie were still maintaining the contest, when the sleep¬ing Highlander, who was no other than Dougal, the turnkey,started up to their assistance, and said he would “ fight forBailie Jarvie,” at the same time he attacked his countryman.This auxiliary, with the assistance of the Lowlander, soon suc¬ceeded in separating the combatants, and in effecting a recon¬ciliation between the parties, the Bailie promising to send theHighlander a new plaid to replace the one he had burnt. Whensupper was nearly ready, Frank missed Andrew Fairservice,ho had not been seen since the beginning of the fray, and hewas going out to seek him in the stable, when the landlady tookbim aside, and put into his hand a written communication from16Rob Roy to this effect t That he durst not meet the Bailie andhim at the clachan of Aberfoyle, as the night-hawks were abroad ;but that the bearer of the letter was trusty, and would guidethem to a place where he could meet them with safety.—In theStable he found Andrew, who was in great dismaj', as he hadseen one of Rob’s gillies give the letter to the landlady for hismaster. During supper, Frank overheard them concerting thebest means of catching Rob Roy, and expressing their impatienc,for the arrival of some red-coats, who were to assist them. Theirdiscourse was interrupted by the entrance of an officer, who in¬quired if they were the gentlemen he was appointed to meet withthere ; and, on their answering in the affirmative, he shewedthem a warrant which he had received, “ to search for andarrest two persons accused of treasonable practices.” On lookingat the Bailie and Frank, he observed, that they answered thedescription exactly; and, notwithstanding their protestations tothe contrary, he caused them to be searched. The only paperfound on Frank was Rob Roy’s letter, which made the officersuspect that they were his confederates, and therefore he orderedthem into custody till further inquiry.Frank and his companion having retired to rest, they wereroused from their slumber in the middle of tfie night, by thenoise of soldiers dragging in a culprit. This prisoner was poorDougal, the ex-turnkey, whom they found, on examination, tobe one of Rob Roy’s accomplices, and by his own confession tohave parted with him about an hour before. The officer threat¬ened to hang Dougal on the next tree unless he discovered RobRoy’s retreat, and a piece of cord being actually prepared beforehis eyes, the poor creature was obliged to consent to conductthem. Having drawn up his men, the officer forced Frank andthe Bailie to join them, and then the whole set out under theguidance of Dougal. The road was at first open, but it after¬wards took a winding direction among the hills, and led to anarrow pass, scarcely sufficient to admit the troops. Here theymade a halt, as they found a commanding position of the pathbefore them occupied by Highlanders, and heard the sound ofbagpipes in their rear ; hut Captain Thornton, the officer, havingresolved to force the pass, seized his pike from one of the soldiers,and putting himself at their head, gave the word to march for¬ward. The party had advanced within twenty yards of the spotwhich was occupied by the enemy, when they observed theHighlanders, with their bonnets and long guns, crouching amongthe brushwood on the eminence, and were stopped by the suddenappearance of a female on the summit of a rock, who orderedthem to stand, and demanded what they sought in the country ofthe Macgregor. Captain Thornton replied, that he came insearch of Rob Roy Macgregor Campbell, and if any resistance17wi* made to prerent him, he was determined to force his way.The strange female, who was no other than Rob’s wife, toldhim, that, not content with depriving her and her family of everycomfort, they were now come to seek their lives; but notwith¬standing her remonstrances, the Captain ordered his men to marchforward, and the soldiers were attempting to gain the ascent, whena volley of musketry from the heights killed three of the soldiers.The king’s troops returned the fire of their concealed enemies,but with little effect; yet, being overpowered by numbers, theyat last laid down their arms, and submitted at discretion. Duringtile conflict, Dougal and Frank had escaped from danger, bycreeping into a thicket which overhung the road, and thenascended the rocks ; but the Bailie, in clambering up after them,had fallen down, and would have perished, had not the branchof a tree caught hold of his coat, and supported him in a hangingposture. Here the worthy magistrate dangled like the pendulumof a clock, till he was observed by Dougal, who, by cutting thetails from his coat, extricated him from this perilous situation.When the battle was over, Frank sallied out to see what wasbecome of his companions, and, having descried the Bailie sittingunder the covert of a rock on the bank, ascended up the heighttill he reached his friend. On looking around, they saw AndrewFairservice surrounded by some Highlanders, who stripped him ofall his wearing apparel, and gave him some old clothes in return.Frank and the Bailie were dragged from their retreat, and wouldlikely have shared the fate of Andrew, had not Dougal preventedit. They were carried before Helen Campbell, whom the Bailieaccosted as his cousin, and endeavoured to prove himself herkinsman, by mentioning a long list of ancestors ; at the sametime expressing his regret, that any of his relations should havedisgraced themselves by becoming freebooters. Helen disdainedto acknowledge him as her kinsman, and, being piqued at thereproaches he had uttered, gave orders to throw Frank and theBailie into the adjoining loch ; but at this crisis Dougal inter¬posed to save their lives. He had scarcely finished his supplica¬tions in their favour, when the sound of a pibroch was heard ata distance, and instantly a troop of thirty Highlanders came to¬wards them. They brought the melancholy news, that her hus¬band was taken prisoner by Galbraith’s militia ; but that his menhad carried off a captive, whom they intended to keep as anhostage for Macgregor’s safety. This hostage was Frank’saccuser, Morris, whom Helen commanded to be dragged beforeher ; and he, anticipating the fate which awaited him, pleadedhard for his life, and piotested that he was only the agent ofRashleigh. However, the vindictive Helen would not listen tohis entreaties ; but commanded him to be rolled in a plaid, with• stone round his neck and thrown into the adjoining lake. Hetorders were instantly nxactt. ^d, and the p or wretch sunk to rutno more.Helen Macgregor now ordered Frank before her, and interro¬gated him. On his giving satisfactory answers to her inquiries,Helen said, that being a neutral person, he was not liable to bedetained a prisoner, and therefore she would send him with amessage to the commander of the party who had taken her hus¬band. The purport of this communication was, that if her ene¬mies put to death, or even maltreated, Rob Roy MacgregorCampbell, she would not only take vengeance on the wholecountry, hut slay all the prisoners in her possession. After someexplanation on the subject, Frank, attended by Andrew Fair-service, having Rob's youngest son for a guide, travelled a con¬siderable distance, before he arrived at the station of the king’stroops, where he found the Duke of Montrose, and delivered themessage. He immediately ordered the prisoner to he broughtbefore him, and Rob made his appearance, with his arms buckledtight dovrn to his body with a horse-girth, and on each side anon-commissioned officer had a hold of him, besides a file of menbefore and another behind, with their bayonets fixed, to preventthe possibility of his escape.On entering, he bowed to the Duke, who observed, that iwas long since they had met, and accused him of being the op¬pressor and terror of the country by his depredations ; but thathe was now drawing near the end of his career. Rob, in turn,accused the Duke of being the author of his misfortunes, bydriving him to that kind of life which he now led, and said, thatif he sufi'ered death, many would lose their lives in return.In order to secure the prisoner, the Duke had caused him tobe placed on horseback behind one of the strongest men in thetroop, whose name was Ewan of Brigglands, and both werebuckled on so tightly, that it was impossible for Rob to escape.The cavalcade pursued their journey, till they came to a ravine,down which one horseman only could descend after another insuccession ; and while apart from the rest, Rob whispered to hiscompanion, that it was barbarous “ to carry an auld friend todeath like a calf to the shambles begging him to cut the thongwhich bound him. After much solicitation, Ewan cut the leatheiwhile they were crossing tile Forth, and his prisoner; slipped fromthe horse and plunged into the river. The Duke had reachedthe opposite side, and, by the waning light, was engaged in put¬ting his troops in order as they landed, and directing the prison¬ers to be brought over when he heard the plunge. He immedi¬ately suspected the cause, and finding on Ewan’s landing, thathit suspicions were verified, he cried out, “ Rascal, where’s theprisoner ?” and then fired a pistol at him, vociferating, “ Gentle¬men, disperse and follow him; a hundred guineas to him that19mcvtm Rob Roy.” All was contusion; some of the troopersfearlessly rushed into the water, while others rode up and downthe banks to discover where he would land, and firing at everyobject which attracted their notice ; but, as a great part of themwished to favour his escape, the search was not made with suffi¬cient eagerness. At one time, being closely pursued, he disen¬gaged himself from his plaid, which he allowed to float down the“treara and deceived his pursuers. However, the evening beganco grow darker, and the banks so precipitous, that it was foundimpossible to continue the pursuit. The commanding officertherefore, ordered a retreat to be sounded. Frank now heardsome one inquiring where the English stranger was, and then ex¬claiming that he had given Rob Roy the knife to cut the belt.This exclamation was followed by threatenings of vengeance onhim, and finding there was sptne risk of his being shot on thespot, he leapt off his horse, jmdfJhid himself in some bushes.When the noise of the troopers had subsided, and all was quiet,Frank left his hiding-place, with the determination of makingthe best of his way to Aberfoyle. On his way thither he wasovertaken by two strangers on horseback, one ,of whom accostedhim, and inqui^d, in the English tongue, where he wa^ boundfor, and if the passes were open. Frank, who had been whistling,told where he was going, but could not ;say whether the passelwere open or not, and advised them to iurn back, as there haabeen some distuibance in that quartejr. iVjAfter some fuither con¬versation, the other rider said, in a voicdiwhich vibrated throqghall his nerves, “ When Mr^Francis psoaldistone does not wishto be discovered, he ought to refrain from whistling his favouriteairs.” Frank discovered the last speaker to be Dianna Vernon,who wTas disguised in a hoiseman’s cloak. Iqprqe conversationensued, in which Frank discovered his jealousy of her companion.Miss Vernon took out a small ca§e, which she gave to Frank,telling him it was the property that Rashleigh had carried oflfrom his father, and which he had been forced to give up. Shethen, after many expressions of endearment and sorrow, with tearsin her eyes, bade him farewell for ever, and rode off with hercompanion, leaving poor Frank in a state of stupefaction.On recovering from his stupor, Frank, feeling a strong desireto see her again, quickened his pace to reach Ab^^Jpyle, wherehe supposed they must stop for the night. While Jnurrying for¬ward, he was accosted, in a deep voice, by a Highlander, with,“There’s a braw night, Maister Osbaldistoneand in thespeaker he immediately recognised Rob Roy, who had got clearofl'from his pursuers. Frank congratulated him on escaping fromhis enemies. Rob inquired the particulars of all that had hap¬pened to him since he left Glasgow, and Frank recounted the affrayat the clachan of Aberfoyle. the arrest of the Bailie and himself by20Captain Thornton, the skirmish at the pass, and, lastly, therecovery of his father's property from Rashleigh.Rob was highly diverted on hearing the Bailie’s exploits withthe red-hot poker at Aberfoyle, and observed, that his cousin,Nicol Jarvie, had got some good blood in his veins, althoughbred to a mechanical business. He told Frank, that his enemieswere laying snares to catch him (Rob Roy) on his return fromGlasgow, of which he had been apprized ; therefore he found itimpossible to meet the Bailie and him at the clachan of Aberfoyle.They had nearly reached the village, when three armed High¬landers sprung upon them ; but Rob uttering the word Gregarachthey recognised him, and burst into joyful acclamations. Afteran extravagant but kindly embrace, two of them ran off to com¬municate the pleasing intelligence ; and so speedily did the in¬formation spread, that, before Frank and he could reach the innat Aberfoyle, they were surrounded by a multitude. When Robhad satisfied the curiosity of his friends, by relating the storyabove a dozen times, they were suffered to enter the house, wherethey found the Bailie seated at the fireside. The welcomes,apologies, and congratulations, being over, the Bailie, after fillingup a, stdup of brand}’, which held above three ordinary glasses,dranik it off to the health of Hob and his family, and then beganto descant on the impropriety of Rob’s bringing up his sons in thesame wicked ways wit!1 himself; and he proposed to take them,without any apprentice-f 'e, and to discharge the debt of 1000pounds Scots which he owed him. Rob, in high indignation, re¬jected the proposal ; and ordering one of his retainers to bring inhis sporran, he took out 1000 pounds Scots, which he gave to theBailie. With great formality the Bailie produced the bond forthe debt, regularly discharged, which he wished to get attestedby witnesses ; but Rob laid hold of the paper, and threw it into thefire, saying, it was the way he settled accounts in the Highlands.Next morning, the Bailie was observing, that they should imme¬diately set out fiyr Glasgow, when Rob entered, and persuadedthem to visit his abode. Frank learned from Rob, that Rash¬leigh, finding he could not get Diana, and then being obligedto give up Mr Osbaldistone’s papets, was so irritated, that heposted to Stirling, and betrayed nil the plans of King James’ ad¬herents to the commander, who was induced to send the detach¬ment by whom Rob was taken prisoner. Rob concluded his in¬formation with the most deadly threats of vengeance on Rashleigh,snd at the time, Downing darkly, he grasped the handle of hisdirk. They had now proceeded along the sides of the Lakeabout six miles, when they came to a number of Highland huts,snd found a numerous party of the Macgregors assembled to re¬ceive them, with Rob’s wife and two sons at their head. Helengave them a kindly but Signified welcome, and apologizing for21the rough maimer in which they had been formerly treated, in¬vited them to partake of a plentiful repast on the Green. Onrising to take their leave, Helen bade the Bailie farewell, andthen turning to Frank, put into his hand a ring, which, she said,had been given to her by Miss Vernon, accompanied with thesewords, “ Let him forget me for ever.” At a late hour theyarrived in Glasgow ; and Frank, after consigning the Bailie tothe care of Mattie, proceeded to his former residence, where he! found there was still a light in the window. On knocking, thedoor was opened by Andrew Fairservice, who, giving a loud cryof joy, ran up stairs, and Frank followed him into a parloui,ji where, to his great surprise, he found his father and Owen, both[i of whom embraced him tenderly. Mr Osbaldistone, who hadI arrived in London shortly after Owen left it, only waited theretill he collected sufficient funds to pay every demand on the house,I which, from his extensive resources, he easily accomplished, andthen had posted to Scotland for the purpose of bringing Rashleighi to justice, and putting his affairs in order in that quarter. Hisarrival with sufficient funds to fulfil all his engagements was adreadful blow to Macvittie and Company, who tried, by vliomost servile apologies, to gain his favour ; but he paid the balanceawing them, and closed their account.Andrew Fairservice, who, after undergoing an examination,had been sent back to Glasgow by the Duke, only reached theinn a few hours before Frank, gave such an account of the dan-, gerous situation of his master to Mr Osbaldistone, that he resolvedto set out for the Highlands in the morning, and endeavour 10IS get his son liberated.Next day Mr Osbaldistone waited on Bailie Jarvie to thankhim for his kindness, and for the trouble he had taken to recoverthe papers, and then ofi'ered him that part of his business whichMacvittie and Company formerly transacted. The Bailie ac¬cepted the offer with gratitude ; and, after conversing a whilewith Mr Osbaldistone, took Frank aside to request of him not tospeak a word about the queer adventures they met with in theHighlands ; for if Bailie Graham heard of him fighting withHighlandmen, and singeing their plaids, and the suspension bythe coat-tails, “ it wad be a sair hair in his neck as lang as helived.”As the object of their journey was accomplished, Frank andhis father, after spending a comfortable day with Bailie Jarvie,took their leave, and began to prepare for leaving Glasgow. TheBailie continued to thrive in business, adding to his wealth andcredit, and, in due time, attained the office of chief magistrate,but, growing tired of the life of a bachelor, he married his hnnsekeeper, Mattie, whom he considered to be a proper wife forbecause ” she w"'- akin to the Laird of Limmerfield.”22 IOne morning, before Mr Osbaldistone and Frank had left#Glasgow, they were alarmed by Andrew Fairservice bursting into fethe parlour, to communicate the intelligence of a rebellion having feibroken out in the West Highlands to restore King James ; thatthe clans had all risen to a man, and that Rob Roy and all his pipetticoat bands would be there in twenty-four hours. Andrew’s Wnews was not without foundation, for it proved to be the beginning nof the great Rebellion of 1715, which was headed by the Earl 1of Mar, and involved in ruin so many noblemeu and gentlemen,both in Scotland and England. The rebellion having extendedto England, Frank’s uncle, Sir Hildebrand, joined the insurgents;but, lest his estates should be confiscated, he left it to all his sonsin succession, except Rashleigh, whom he cut off with a shilling;and, in the event of their death, it was to descend to Frank. Itis somewhat strange, that all Sir Hildebrand’s sons died, or were |killed, a short time afterwards. By his uncle’s will Frank suc¬ceeded to Osbaldistone Hall, and he set off, attended by Andrew |Fairservice; but, as his right to the property was disputed byRashleigh, before going there, he called on his old friend Justice |Inglewood, the holder of his uncle’s original will, from whom he Imet with a kind reception. The will being produced after dinner,rank found that every thing was correct; and when they hadnk a few glasses, the Justice insisted on a bumper to MistVernon’s health, which led to some conversation about that lady. IFrom him Frank learned, that it was Diana’s father, Sir Fred* 'rick Vernon, who accompanied her to the Highlands, and who |had assumed the disguise of Father Vaughan at OsbaldistoneHall: that he was a rigid Roman Catholic, and had formerlybeen tried and condemned for high treason ; but he made his |escape to France, and a report of his death was circulated, whichevery one believed, until he returned to Britain as the agent ofKing James : that Rashleigh, being privy to Sir Frederick’s con¬cealment, kept poor Diana in awe lest he should betray him to go¬vernment : thather father had solemnly engaged to Sir Hildebrandthat she should either marry one of his sons or take the veil, andshe had positively refused to marry any one of her cousins. Theloss of Diana, together with the wresting of the property ofOsbaldistone and Company from him, had so irritated Rashleigh,that he deserted the cause of the rebels, and turned informer.Frank having heaid that Rasbleigh was at Mr Jobson’s house,in the neighbourhood, he, next morning, accompanied by AndrewFairservice, directed his course to Osbaldistone Hall; and ondrawing near it, the recollection that all its late inhabitants were iooried in the grave, excited in his mind those melancholy feelingswhich local associations leave of those who are no more. Whenthey reached the Hall, {Andrew knocked loudly at the door, atwhich the aged butler,' appeared, and inquired their beniaaaa23Prank haring explained to him the purport of Sir Hildebrand^will, and hii own right to inherit the property and manaion-houseof Osbaldistone Hall, the old man admitted them, thongh withapparent reluctance. The butler asked where his honour wouldplease to have a fire lighted and Frank requested it might be pur.on in the library ; but he made many excuses, that the roomsmoked, and that the daws had built up the chimney, in order todeter him from going. However, Frank insisted on being in¬stantly shewn there, and the butler was forced to comply with hisorders. On entering the library, Frank was not a little astonishedat finding a good fire, and every thing having the appearance ofbeing lately occupied ; but, anxious to enjoy his own reflection',he desired the land-steward to be called, and the butler, withevident reluctance, withdrew to execute his orders.Aj Frank knew of Kashleigh being in the neighbourhood, anfthat he was capable of any desperate action, he made AndrewFairservice bring two stout fellows to guard the premises. Afterconvincing the steward, who had come immediately on receivingj: the summons, of the validity of his titles to the property, Frank,I being left alone, sat down by the tire, and, in a reverie, utteredI these words: “ Is this, then, the progress and issue of humani wishes ?” He had scarcely finished these words* when a 'in| issued froufthe other side of the room, and Diana Vernon pte-l sented herself, leaning on her father’s arm. Ftank was almostif petrified with terror, as he believed them to be phantoms of hist own imagination, till Sir Frederick Vernon accosted him, andx-gged ho might protect them from the imminent danger thatti threatened them. Frank replied, with great emotion, thnt hei could never forget their kindness in recovering his father’s pro¬perty, and that no exertions would be wanting on his part to pro¬vide for their safety. Sir Frederick now explained the causes1 of his present situation ; that he had joined the Earl of Mar inScotland to support King James ; that he had afterwards followedLord Derwentwater into England ; that, after the defeat atPreston, he had retired northward, and taken refuge at Osbal¬distone Hall, till a trusty friend should find a vessel to conveythem to France. Sir Frederick then expatiated on his daughter’svirtues ; and having declared his intention to devote her to theservice of her Maker, he withdrew along with her behind thetapestry.After their departure, Frank fell into a long train of painfuli reflections ; at one time accusing Sir Frederick for his bigotry,r at another time Diana for yielding to his wishes; and, last of all,•t'1' himself for loving one who seemed determined not to become hisS<|j wife. In such a state of mind he could not sleep; and in theM ' iddle of the night was alarmed by a loud knocking at the door.t,’1 yhis v as occasioned by Justice Standish, who came with a war-24rant to apprehend Sir Frederick Vernon, Diana, and Frankhimself, for high treason. Frank having learned this intelligence,informed Sir Frederick and his daughter, for whom he procuredthe key of the garden, where they might hide themselves. RutRashleighhad observed their movements, and soon brought themback into the house, where he also found Frank, who, he said,must instantly quit Osbaldistone Hall, as he had come to takepossession of it. Rashleigh also told them, that he would conveythem away in his carriage to a place of safety; and, in the mean¬time, dismissed Andrew Fairservice, to get rid of his blusteringnoise. Andrew strolled up the avenue in search of a night’squarters from an old acquaintance, when he fell in with a numberof Highlanders, who obliged him to tell them the late transac¬tions at Osbaldistone Hall. When they heard that a carriagewas to carry away Diana, Sir Frederick, and Frank, they cutdown trees, and laid across the road, to intercept its passage.When the carriage, escorted by Rashleigh, had arrived at theplace were the Highlanders were, some of his attendants dis¬mounted to remove the trees, when a scuffle ensued betwixt thetwo parties. Rashleigh attacked the leader of the band, whowounded him severely; and, taking hold of him, asked if hewould beg forgiveness. “No, never;" said Rashleigh; uponwhich his antagonist (who was Rob Roy) plunged his sword intohis bowels. Rob then handed out Miss Vernon from ths car¬riage, and conducted her and Sir Frederick into the forest, ac¬companied by his troop of Highlanders. Frank then directed nhis whole attention to Rashleigh, who was instantly conveyedby the carriage to Osbaldistone Hall, and placed in an easychair till a surgeon should be sent for to dress his wounds. Rash¬leigh begged that they would save themselves the trouble, as hewas a dying man ; and, addressing Frank, declared, that hehated him, for having thwarted him in all his projects of love,ambition, and interest; and now that the estate would becomehis, “ Take it," he said, “ and may the curse of a dying mancleave to it." Shortly after, Rashleigh breathed his last. Afterthe funeral obsequies were performed, Frank repaired to London,where he received a letter from Miss Vernon, informing him oftheir escape under the guidance of Macgregor, towards the westof Scotland, and their safe conveyance by a vessel to France,where she was placed in a convent. Frank now determined, ifpossible, to marry Miss Vernon ; and having procured his father’sconsent to the match, he succeeded in gaining her affections, andmaking her his wife. They long lived happily together, a blear¬ing to all the country round.FINIS.