T HER EM A 11 K A B L EHISTORYof TheMiser of Berkshire:JOH\T ELVv’ES, ESQ.MEMBER OF THREE SUCCESSIVE PARLIA¬MENTS FOR THAT COUNTY.With Singular Anecdotes, &c.Supposed to be the greatest instance of Penurythat ever existed.-S--H--H-++++-HH-M-+++ -f-f-H-u-f hWRITTEN BYCAPTAIN TOP HAM.H- -J-+ +-; -H- t-r -H- -!-+ +-r ++ +H- -A Mhcr is an Enemy to Mankind; for bow can he feelfor oilers njbo is evt r cruel io birnsef? His breastis steeled against Humanity: His Heart knowsno Mirth; nor does the 'I ear of Sensibilitybeder.i’14s Cheek. Gold, that s a Blessingto ethers, to him dothpr ve,aCur/e:Care torments him and hehas no Comforter. o’keeffe,A?#*#-***#**********#* *F A L K i R K :PRINTED AND SOLD EY T. JOHNSTON.l8lO.4theBISTORTorJOHN ELWES, ,ESQ.jMeggot was the Emily name of Mr Elwes;znd his name being John, the conjunction i f J 'ckMaggot induced strangers to imagine some mies_that bis friends were addrssing liim by an assumedappellation. The father of Mr. El ves was aneminent brewer; and his dwelling-house and efficeswere situated in S.uth-wark ; *h ch borough wasformer'y rrp csented in par ianiem by hn gr«nd-iathtr, Sir George Mrggot. During h:s life, hepurchased the estate now in possession of the familyot the Culverts, at Ms cnam, in Beiksh.re.»The father died when the late Mr.Elwes wasonly 4 years old ; s,o that little of the singular cha¬racter of Mr. Elwes is to bear ributed to,him; butfrom the mother it may be raced with ease : Shewas left nearly one hundred thousand pound: byher husband, and yet starved herself to death !The only children from the sb ve m Triage,were Mr. Elwes, and a daughter, who married( 3 )j the father of the late Colonel Timms; and fromthence came ihe intai! of iom» par: of his estate.Air. Tilwks, at an ea: !y period of life, was seneto Westminster School, where he remained ten ortwel ve years. He certainly during that time, hadnot misapplied his talents; tbf he was a good classi-c '1 sc^°lar to the last; and it is a circumstance veryremai kablc, yet well authenticated, that he neverre^ad afterward;. Never, at ar y period of his futurehfe, wa^ he seen with a book; nor had he, in all‘ h:;s d fferen: houses, left behind him two poundswor.h of literary furniture. His knowledge inaccounts was liule; and, in some measure, mayaccount for his total ignorance as to his own con¬cerns. The contemporaries of 'Mr. Elwts, atWestminster, were Mr. Wors ey, late Master ofthe Board of Works, and the late Lord Man.field;who, at that rime, borrowed all that young Elwesv.ou'd lend. H s Lord h p; however, afterward*cnanged his disposition.Mr Elwfs from n’c= rfPsfer. School removedto Geneva, .here he shortly af er entered uponpursuits more congenial to his temper than studyIhe riding master of the academy had Ten threeof the best hor em.yn in Europe for his pop Is ■ vizMr. Worsley Mr ELves,and S-.r Sidney Meadows!Eiwcs of the three was accounted iu most despe¬rate: the young horses were put into his hands al¬ways ; and he was, in fa& ih rough-rider of iheother two He was in'roduced, during tht, periodto Voltaire, whom, in point efappearar.ee. hi some!wl^t resembk’d; but though he has often mentionedthis circumstance, neither lha genius, the-fortune,ror the eharadcr, of Voltaire, ever seemed to firikehiim as worthy of envy.Returning to England, after an absence of twoor three years, \jf was to be introduced to his uncle,this late Sir Ha vey Eiwes who was then livingat Stoke, in S .fFolk, the most perfeft o ffure ofhuman penury perhaps hat ever existed. In himthe attempts ofsav'-eg.mor ey wtr e so extraordinary,that il" Eiwes r..v quite reached them, even atthe most covetous pwird of his life.!To •kis Sir Harvey Eiwes he was to be heir,and of course it was pul’ey to please him. On thisaccount it war ntce.-sary, even in old Mr. Eiwes,to masquerade hrtle ; and as he was at that timein the world, am; : aft-urs, he dressed itke otherpeople. This w uid not have done for Sir Harvey.Tfe. nephew therefoi e; used to su p at a little innat Oeiouford. begin to dress in churafter.—A pair of small uSn buckles, worsted stockingsdarned, a wctiooik id coat, and a tattered waist¬coat, were pu: cm ; an- forwards he rede to visithis uncle; who used to contemplate him witha kind of miseraolc satiu clion, and seemed pleatedto find his heir bidding fair to rival him in the un¬accountable pursuit of avartce. There they wouldsit.—saving mlsh-—with a single stick upon thefire, and with one gh ss of wine, occasionally, be-. twixt them, inveighing - gsinst the extravaganceof the tfrnes; and when evening shut in, they wouldrmncJ a-dy rcu.e to rest, as-gd;^ to bed savedcandle-light. Hie nephew, however, had thenwhat, . ideed, he never lost-a very extraordinaryapperit- and rhis would have been an unpardon-oole eh/nee in the eye of Ins unele ] Mr. Klweswas therefore obliged to partake of a dinner first,With some country neighbour, and then returnto his uncle with a little diminutive appetite, thatquite engaged the heart of the old gentleman.—A partridge, a small pud ling, and one pota-ot, didthe whole business? and the fire was even sufferedto d e 3way while Sir Harvey was at dinner, aseating was a*sufficient exercise.S;r Harvey, in truth, was a ramt singular cha¬rter, and the way in whxh he lived was no less so.It is ceciusion from the world nearly reached th.tcf an hermit: and, extreme avarice excepted,a more Liameles life was never led by mortal.'■0SKETCH OF S,R HARVEY ELWES.S.r Harvey Elwes succeedid S:r Jervaise,a very worthy gentleman, who had involved asHr as they, would go, all the estates he received,and left behind him.—Sir Herrey, on Ids death,found himself possessed nominally of some thous¬ands a-year, but really with an income of onehundred pounds.per annum.-On his arrival atErokr, the family seat, he said, “ that never wou'dhe leave it till he had entirely cleared the paternalestate. — i his he not only accomplished, hut, be-( 6 } ''Isrdes, Kvcf! to realiat above ore hundred tnousandp unds. — In youth he h...J been given over for aton:umpt’on, so tfist hr hsd no constiultirin, andno passrons. — !Ie was timid, shy, and o fit er:t *«the extreme: of a t"hin sp'ite habit of body, antiwith u: a friend upon earth •—The hoarding wpand the counting his money formed the greatest joy.Next to that w,ra partridge-setting; at which hev'as so great an a|dpt, and game was then so plen- |titvil that he has been known to take five hundredbrace of birds in one season ! —tint he lived upon 1partridges, he and his whole household, consisting &of one man and two ma’uli. — What they ecu d ^not eat. he turned loose again, as he never gaveany thing away to bis neighbours. — S r Harveyand his man never mused a day, during the part- il iege season, if the weather was tolerable; andhis breed <;f dogs b»jng remarkably good, l»c seldom jfkileii taking g> tst q iaihit.es of gau.-s.A? ;S> times he wore a black velvet cap much |over his face; a worn out ful’-dreued suit of deaths,and an old great coat, w ith worsted stockings drawnup over his knees —fte rode a thin thorough-bredhorse, end the hbrse and h s rider both looked as ifa gu t of wind would have- blown them away to- |ge.her — \Vh n the wearher'^. s not fine en. ughfo tempt higa abroad, he would wax backwardsand forwards in his old hall, to save the expenseof fire.^—If a farmer in his neighbourhood came inon bud ness, he would strike a light in a tinder-boxshat he kept by him, and putting one single stick '^ (? Jupon ths jTi<3,.c, woul 1 not a.iJ. jiiotl.sr Until 'asfirst was nearly coaiUTis l Tlaviiijr li tie connec¬tion with London, he geaefatl had three or foorthousand p muds at a me in hij-house -— A ;et offellows, wno were afterwards known oy ths ap¬pellation of jhe I'haxr Cang, (and who wereafterwards all hung 1 forme 1 a plan ro rob him —They were totally u ns us peeled at that-time, eaclihaving some apparent occupation during the day,and -went cut only at nig’hfr, upon good intelligence.It was Sr Harvey’s custom ro retire to his bed¬chamber at eight o’c'ock ; where, after takinga bason of water-gru 1, by the light of a ‘mail fire,he tvent to bed, to save the unnecessary extrava¬gance of a candle.— The gang, who perf- dly knew-the hour when fits Servant went to the ftable. leav¬ing their horfes in a fi.nsil grove oh the Eflex fideof the river, walked aero.s, and hid themfeives inthe church p rch till they (aw the man come uptef his h rfes, when they immediately fell upc fi h m,and, afrer- fome h’tle Ortiygle, bound r ,! gaggedhim ; • a' ip towards the h. ufe, tied the two maid*; together, and gqii.g up to Sir Haryey, presentedtheir p-i<o s. atut sternly demanded nt. money,—■M ver did Sir H^v-.y behave fq veil as i tt tillstran-ud m : Wln-r. .tl:e vilLms -Ik’d for his inorjcy,he would geve t-’n4^ no anfwer till they hsii afl irtdhim that his Jervmt, a great favourite, Was lale:He then delivered them the key of a drawer, inwhich wa: fifty’guintas: Hut they well knew hehad.much more in t peahen fie j and again threatenedhis lie1, without he difco-. Eed where it wys dtpo-fited — At Icng'h he reluctantly fhewfcd them the■ed our a large drawer, wH. fi; , v\n hundred guineas! — This'•* two *?rt*c ba&ets, and aftually ^’t-: ArTbery which, icrquinrity of fpjcie,;*? ncvsr equaled. — Tiie-* told him be-went off, that they fiiou’d leave a man* d, who would mu d Jr him if re even fiii redHi dunce.—On which he very cooly, and, indeed,with fome Omplichy, took out his watch, which theys.-tTnotslked Ivini for, and faid, Gentlemen, I do notv .nr to take any advantage of you ; therefore, uponr‘,y honour, i will give you twenty minutes for your Jcfer.p'J : After that time, nothing Ihall prevent me j;from feeing my. fe. vam. He was ftriftly as goodas his voord; when the time expired, he went anduntied the mam — Tho’- fearcb was made by theJufiice. of the village, the robbers were not difeo-vered.— And when they were apprehended, fontsyears afterwards For-other offences, and u ere knownto he the men who had robbed Sir Harvey, hewould r/- appear a gain it them :—No, r.«>, faid be,? have lod my money ; 1 will notlofe my time 4lfo.b , that however culpable he may be confideredon the fcore of penury, he may certainly h» acquit- i|ted of the t::fTion of revenge.Of wi:a, temperance can effiA Sir Harvey wasan inflance : At an early perion of life, he wasgiven over for a canfumption; end he lived till: etwijit eighty and ninety years of age.Amortgff the few acquaintances he had ( and; were few indeed^ was an occasional club held" .at his own vilhge'of Stoke ; and there were mem¬bers of it two ]j:;runets b.GJes himfelf, Sir Cord,well Fifrbrafs. ^nd S.r John Birpard don. — Tlureckohifi-r to theft congenlv ibuls was always aaobject of inve/rgi'fion. — Vj they were ore dayfettling this d.fn ule paint, .an-'odd fellow, wfip vasa member, called our to a friend ; . ■ - v,.s ptiling.For Heaven's fake, fep up ft dfs, and Ihft tiie poor!Here are three iJaronets, worth a 'millicn of money,q urrellirtg about a farthing-! ... . ■After Sir Harxey’s death, the only tear droppedupon his grave, fell from the eye of his fervant,who had long and faithfully attended him. — Tothat fervant he bequeathed a farm of 50I. perannum, to him and to his heirs.In the ehiltity and ahdinence of his life.Sir Harvey Elwes was a rival to Sir Ifaac Newton,for he v/ .uld have held it unpardonable to havegiven—even r.is Hfcciipns ; and, as he faw no ladywhatever, he h .d but htt e chance of barteringmitrimoniilly for money.itV/h&n he died, he lay in Gate, fuch as it was,21 his feat at Stoke.—Spine cf the tenants obferyed,with more humour than decency. That i: was wellS:r Harry rottid rm ft-eit —r!is fortune, which hadbecome inrvenfe,sk'i to h;s nephew ^ir. Meggo't,who, by will, was ornered to afiu nc the name andarms of Elwes.— Thus lived, and thus died, theuncle of eld Mr. Elwes, whofe pofftflion', at thetime of his ocath, were fuppofed to be at leaft twohundred and fifty thouLnd pounds, and whole. ( 10 )annual expenditure was ah ut one hundred nndten pounds!— Fho’ the robbery before-mentionedprobably did not ace-lerate his death, yet it !-yheavy on. his tpirits; but more particularly whenemployed in the delightful talk of counting h?s gel, However incredible this may appear, yet it is ftricilytrue, that his cloaths cost him nothing, for he tookthem out of an old chtit, where they had lain finesthe gay days of Sirjervaife. — He kept his houfe-hold chiefly upon game, and n!h from his own pond.The cows, watch gr.zsd betore his own doer,furnithed milk, cheefe, and butter, for his littleoemnomicai houfeiiold ; and whar fuel, he did burn,his woods fuppiied — To rhofe who cannot extllout of the bultle of fociety, and the fever of publ cIcenes, it may be curious to know, that he wa*a man w ,o had the courage to live, as it were,nearly ieventy years alone !To the whole of'his uncle’s property Mr EhvesSucceeded ; and it was imagined, that his own wasnot at the time very inferior —He got, too, an ad¬ditional seat; but he got it, -as it had been, mostreligiously delivered dawn for ages Thefurniture was must sacredly aot;q!« !—Not a roomwas painted, nor a window icpaifcd l — Tiie beiisabove stairs, were ali m canopy ^nd state ; wherethe^wonns and moths held undisturbed posses-.ion !Mr. JE-VIWES h. d now advanced beyond the/jotli yearufct his sge ; and for 15 yu-.r. previousto this povo) it was that he was known in ali thefashionable circles of London — He had always* turn for play; and it wa|s only late in ide. and*( 11 )from paying always, and not always being paidthat he conceived disgust at the inclination.Tie acquaintances whch he had formed atestminsier School, and at Geneva, together withhis own large fortune, all conspired to introduce «L'_n into whatever society he liked best. — lie wasadmitted a member of tiie club at Arthur’s,' andVa'l0Us otl‘er embs of that period — And as so tiepr of .’f his notanety at tnac time as a marTof deeppla;i Mr Elwes, the la e L -rd Robert Bertife. andvOine 0ir\rr, are noticed in a ‘C'He in he At'-ven¬tures of a Guinea, for ths fr q icncy of their mid¬night orgies. — Few men, teen fmm his ownacknowledgment, had plaved deep r man him elf,2nd with success more various. —* ie once playedtwo days and a n ght without inter rhi••stun; atidthe ro^m bv.ing a smaii one, the pirty were nearlyUP t0 ^nees ln cards.— He lost fo.n.t ihoufands^t that fitting.— i he late Duke of Northumberland,who would never quit a lable where any hope t»fwinning remained, was of the party,After fitting up a whole night at play, for thou-•and.?. with tne mod fafiiionable and prcfligue menof the time, amiuif Iplendid rooms, gilt fophas,w..;v lights, and waiters attendant on bts call, hawould walk cut ibout four if! me morning,towards home, but into S.nitnfitdd, to meet hiscattle, which were coming to market, from Tiny-don-Hail, a farm of his in Ell'dx : There wouldthis fame man, forgefu! - f the feenes he h id juft leftftand in the cold or rain, bartering with a carcafe-( 12 )bufcher for fhil’ing'. — Sometime: he would walkon in the niir>J to meet them ; and more than Oncehe has go^e on h o ,the whole w?y to ! is farm,with a: ft: p: ng. which was 17 miles from London,after fitting up the while night ! Had every manbeen of the mind of Mo Elwes, the race of Inn¬keepers mulb have periled, and poll: chides hadebeen turned back-to thole who made them ; for itwas the bulinef* of his life to avoid both !Hs al ways traveUed on horfe-b-tek —To fee himfelting out on a journey was a matter truly cutious JHis fitfl care was to put two or three eggs, boiledhard, into his great coat pocket, or any feraps ofbread which he found. —- His ncx1: attention was,to get out of London into that road where theturnpikes were the fewelt; then flopping underany hedge where graC prefented itfelf for his her ft,and a little water for hirnfeif, ■ he would fit downand refrefh himfelf and his horfe together !An inn upon the read, try! an apothecary’s bill,were equal objete of averfipn to Mr. Elwes. The words Give and Pay, were not found in hisvocabulary; and therefore, when he once receiveda very dangerous kick from one of his horfes, * hofell in going over a leap, none could perfuade hint ’to have any afMance —He rode^hc chafe through,with his leg cut to the bone 1 and it was only, somedays afterwards, when it was feared an ampliationwould be neceflary, that he conftntcd to go up toLondon, and, dtfmal day 1 part with lome of hismoney for advice.( 13 )One day he put his eldeft boy tjp( n a ladder,to get fome grapes for the table, whtrt, hy theladiirr flipping, he fell down, ami hurt his fide ;The boy had the precaution to go to a Surgeonand get blooded On his return, his father aik"dwhere he had been, and what was the matter withhis arm ? He told him that he had got bled.—Bled! bled 1 faid the old gentleman : But what dtdyou give ? A fliifling, ani’wered the boy.—Pt.'iaw! *returned the father, you are a blockhead ! Neverpart with your blood and money together.In the penury of Mr. Elwes, there was fome-thing that feemed like a judgment from heaven!for all earthly comforts he voluntarily denied himfijifHe would walk hothe in the rain in London, ratherthan pay a Culling for a coach -*-He would* fit wit-hwet deaths, rather than be at the txpence of a fireto dry them — He would eat his provisions in theiafl ifage of putrefadion, rather than be at the tx-pente of purchafing a frefh joint from the butcher.And he wore a w g for above a fortnight, whichhe picked up out of a rwt in a lane.— I his was thealt txtrenmy of laudable tetmotny ! for, to allpppe..ranee, it was the cafl-off wig of lome beggar!I'lie day in^hich he iirlt appelbed in this ornamen¬tal drels, exceeded ail the power of farce ! for hehad lorn a brown coat, 'which he generally wore,and had therefore been obliged to have rccourfeto the old chert of Sir Jtrvaife, from whence hehad feleirtc-d a full-drclTLc! green velvet coat, withILlhed flteves; and thet’e he fat at dinner in boots,the aforeL.d green velvet coat, S«s own white liair( 14 )appearing round his fdce, and tiiis black ftray wigat the ttip of all!One dark night Mr. Elwes. hurrying along,went with inch v deuce againft the pole of a led ancnair, tliat he cut both his legs very deep'y ] Asurual. h- though nOi of any afiiltance; but Colonei-Tiaims at whofe houfe be then was, in OrchardStre; t, infilled upon calling a doft r He at lengthfuqmitted, and an apothecary in confequ°nce at-tended ; who 'rnmediately began to expatiate onthe bad confi quences of breaking, the Ikin ; thegood fortune of hts being fent for ; and the peculiarbad appearance of Mr. E!wes’s wound.—Veryprobably, faid Mr. Elwes.—But, Mr. , I haveone thing to fay tu you :—In my opinion, my legsare not much hurt: Now, you think they are,—So 1 will make tins .-greement; I will take one leg,and you (h*!! t^ke the other ; ycu Ou’I Jo what youpleale with your’s, and I will do nothing to mine :And I will wager ycur bill, that my leg gets wellbefore your’s.— He exultingly beat the apothecaryby a foitnight!The rooms of his feat at Stuk?, that were nowmuch out of repair, .and won d liave all fallen inbut for his fun, J ,hn EKvcs. E q. who had. rt fidedthere, he thou^it too txpoi.uvc v furn fned andthat worfe things might have done — If a • indowv. as broken, there was no repair but that cf a liit'ebrown pap-r, or ;.;it . f piecing in a b t of broken. Ms, which had, at lengtii, been done fo frequently,and in fa many (h ^es, that ic woaid have puza ed( i5 )a mathematician to fay wha: figure they detcribed!To ii)ve fire, he would walk about the remains ofan i d green-houfe, or fit with > firr’ant in ..hekrchm.—During the hsrveit. he would amufehim.df w»th go'pg irfd the fields to g'ean the cr:ncn the g'-ounds of his own tenants; and thi y ufedro leave a little more than common, to pleafe theold gentleman, who was as eager after it as anypaupdr in the pariflh —In the advance of the feafon,his morning employment was to p ek up any ftraychips/ bone.-., or other things, to carry to the fire,in his pocket; and he was one day furprifed bya neighbouring gemlenvap in the aft of pulling downa crow’s neft tor this purpofe! O.i the gentlemanexprtfimg his (urprife why he gave himfelf thattrouble, Oh, Sir, replied he, it is really a lhamethat thefe creatures Ihould be allowed to’ do foOjbut ice what walte they niak:!He Hill rode about the country on one of hismnres; and. always kept heron the loft turf ad-j lining the,road, to five the expenfe of thoes;ami, he faid, the turf was moll p'eafant for her foot!And when any gentleman call’d to pay him a vtfit,and the boy, who attended in the stables, was pro¬fuse enough to put a little hay 1 efore his horre,old Elwes would fitly* Heal back into the liableand t ke away the hay very carefully.To five the exper.ee cf going to a butcher,he would have a whole fliccp k u-d and - lb eatmutton to the end of the chapter. —. When he oc-caluituhy had hi: c-^-al'idrawn, though, lotnetmies( 16 )horie-loads of fma!! filh were taken, not one wou’d4lie mfler to be thrown in a^ain, for he obferved,he fhould never Uo sheni more! — Game in the!a/f .'(ate of ptnrefsftiobj and# meat that walkedabout his plate, Wonid he continue to eat, ratherthan have new things kilied before the old provifionwas txhauiled !*- ^rith his diet, his drefs kept p^ce,oqt’hy in ladllnge of ahloluie difl’olurion! —Sometimes he would wa'k -.bout with a tatteredbrown coloured hat; and fometimes with a whiteand red woollen cap!W .Vn any friends, who might d-caft ;na!Iy be ,w th him, were absent he won.d carefuiiy ptit outhis own hre, and w Ik ro the houfe of a neighbour;and thus make one fire ferve both. — His (hoes he 'never would fuffjr to be cleaned,’^eft they ihculdbe^worn out the fooner. — But aid, with all thVfelf-denial, he thought hiinfelf over profufe ; andfrequently fjitl, he mua be a little more careful ofhis property. — When he went to bed, he wouldput five or ton guineas into, a bercato, ami then,full OS' his money, after he ii d retired to reft, fo.ne-tinifs m tne mtaole < f the nrghr, lie would o-medown to fee if it was !..fe. — The irritation cf hismtnd was uncealshg!—He thought every bedv ex.trayagant; and when a perf< n was talking to himctje day of the great wealth of old Mr. Jennings,(who is fopp fed to be worth a million , and thattbev had teen him that day in a new carriage:Ave. aye, faid old Elwcs, Le wiil Lon fee tee end ;cf his monev!( )Mr. Elwcs Jelled himfelf every thing, r5;ceptj common nert flaries of life; and, indeed, it mighti have been admitted doubtful, whether or nor, if hisj manors, Hr fifh ponds, and grounds in his own hands,1 had not furr/ifned a fubfift’ner, where he had not| any thing aetaaily to buy, he would not, ratlier than1 have bought any thing, have ilarved !He one day d>'ned upon tlie remaining part ofi a moor hen, which had been brought out of theriver by a rar! —At ano'her time, he~eat an und:-gelkd part of a p:ke. which a larger one had fw:4-iowed, but had r ot finiflted, and wh;ch was takenin tins ftate in a net!—At the time this lad circum-i fiance happened, he difcpvered a firange kind ofj fat:sfacl;on ; for he find to Captain Topham, whohappened to be prefent, Aye! this is killing twoI birds with one (ton- ! Mr. Elwe/, at this time,j was perhaps worth nearly Pco,oool. and at thisI period he bad not made his W11, of couple, was notj having from any fentimentof sff flion for any perfen.His thoughts ut'.ceafing’y ran upon money 1 money!; money!—and ne (,uv now u^f’or.e but whe m heimagined wjs deceivmg and defrauding him!As, in the day, he would not allow himfelf anyfi-e, he went to bed as fooo as day clofed, to havej candle; and had begun to deny himfeif even the| pleafurescf deeping in (heets — In (liort, hehad hown.srly brought to a climax the moral of his whole life,j the perfefl vanity of wealth, withou* ufing it.♦• On removing from Stoke, he went to his farm-1 heufe at Tliaycon-Hdl; a feene of more ruin ar d( is )dejoTation, if pofTihle, than either of his houfts InSuffjfk or BerkIHirf —It ttood alone, on the bordersof Epping Foreif; and an old rrjn and woman, h?stenants, v ere the only petfons with whom he cou'dhofd any coriverfe. — Here he fell i'i; anu, as hewould have no iffliilanee. and had not even a fervaiit,he lay unattended, and almoft forgotten, for nearlya fortnight; indulging, even in-death, that avaricewhich malady could not .u •due.—It .was at thisperiod he began to think of milking his will; feeing,perhaps, that his Tons would not be entitled by law,to any part of his property, fliould he die intf hate:and, on corning to London, he made his bit Willand Teftatnent.—The following is an attefted copy.THE WILL■OF THE LATE JOHN’ FLV/ES FSQ_Ex’rdifyd ftom the Registry of the Prerogative Court• of Ci'xnteritirx.In the name of Ggd, Amen.—I John Elwfs,j|of Stoke, in the county of Suffolk, Efqmre. do makeand declare this Writing to be my Lift Wtil and |Tcltament, in manner following: "hat is to Lyj,lin the firit pi ce, I dir. ft tin.* all my jutt debts, Jfunera! and teifatnenta-y expetxds, be paid .-s L n ias conveniently may be after iny deccaie — And |I do give devife, and '.eqieath, all and tv.ry my.arjal rdates mefl’uagcs or tenements, farms 1 .nds,Btythes, and hereditaments, lituate, Handing, lynig,|; and being in the feveral piri.nni-or places cf Srr!,?,] Tbaydon, sntiMarcbam, in the counties of Suffiiilc,i and Berks, with all and every the barns,i It able s (Ut-houles, buildings, and sopurtenancesi thereunto b>longing; and all otltgr ray real ertate*whatfoever, and wtierefoever ftu iH tending hying,or being, v.i h thtir and every of their rjghti, mem-' bers, and appur:entnc£S; and alfoall and every rayI perfonal eltatc, goods, chattels, and tfieifls whatso-j ever, and of what nature, kind or quality soever,■ or wheresoever the same may be, unto my son,George Eiwes, now living and residing at mymansion-hou^e at Marcham,in the county of Berks,j and my son, John EJwes, late a Lieutenant in hisMijesty’s Second Trodp cf Horse.Guards, andusually re iding at my mansion-Home at Stoke, in! the county of Suff-’k, cqu.dly to be divided betweenthem, Share and share al ke ; to have and to holdall ai d every ray said real and personal estatesj whatsoever and wheresoever, with the rights, pri-j vileges, and appurtisnancss thereunto belonging or[ appertaining unto them my said sons, Georg* Elvvesand John 1' lwes, and their heirs, executors, admi-nijtrators, and assigns, for evermore, equally to bedivided between unm as tenants m common. And1 hereby dn-ft tiiat the txecti'.ors of this my will,du and shall, as soon as ccnvcnienrly may bn afterray death, p y aH and every such legacies or be-[ quests as 1 may think fit to give to any personwhomsoever, oy any codocil, or paper writing in[ the nature of a codocil, or testamentary schednlde,f to he written or^signed by me, whether the sameI shall or shall not be attested by any subscribing( io )ivitnenes. — Arui-I do nominate, constitute, nnJ||appoint my said sons, George Eiwes, executors t|of this my last will and testament'; and hereby Jrevoking all former wills by me at any time here- Itofore made, do make and declare this writing only Ias and for my last will and testamei* —In witness 9whereof, I, the said John Eiv.es, have to this writ- |in£, contained in two iheets of paper, which I de- 9dare as and for my last will and testament, set^ny jhand and seal, (that is to say,) my hand to each Iof the said sheets, and my hand and seal to thislast sheer, and to the label by which they are affixed jtogether, the sixth day of August, one thousand,seven hundred, and eighty-fix.John El whs. ISigned, sealed, published, and declaied, by tthe said John Eiwes, as and for his last will Hand testament, in the presence of us. who,in his presence, and in the presence of each IOther, and at his request, have sub cribc-dour names, as witnesses to the execution Ithereof.* Fflix Buckley.Edward Tophavt. I1 kqmas Ingraham. 'IThe property hers disposed of, may amount, Iperhaps, to five hundred thousand pounds! —^ The Ientailed c-tates f li to Mr. Timms, son of the late IRichard Tinftrjjis, Lieutenant Colonel of the ikeond" ITroop ol Horse Guards.( 21 )The sons named by Mr Elwcs in the will above,jwere his natural children, by E!,zabz;h Moren,formerly his house-keeper at Merchant in Berkshire.’ Mr. Elwes, shortly after executing his will,gave, by letter of attorney, the power of managing,eceiving, and pa, qg all his monies, into the handspf Mr. Ingraham, his lawyer, and his.youngest ton,pH! El wes, Esq; who had been his chief agents.I Ncr was the acf by any means improper.—|The lapses of ids memory h::d now become fre-Mtienr and g'aring —AU recent occu rences heforget entirely; and as he never committed any1 t0 wr 1 ■1 ; h• confusion he made was incx.ip res sib e! — As an instance of this, the followinglanfcdote may serve : — He had one evening givena draft on Messrs Hoc,res, hi rankers, for twenty(pounds; and having taken it into his head, duringtthe nigh , that he h.d over-drawn his account,ihis anxie.y was .incensing! — He left his bed, and'walking about his ronn with that little feverish'irritation that always distinguished him, waitedwirh the utrnwst impatience till morning came,jwhen, on going to his banker, with an apology(for the great liberty; Ikj had taken, he was assuredIthere was nb occasion for his apology, as he hap.'pened to have in their hands, at that time, the smallturn of fourteen thousand even hundred pounds!However singular thi; aft of forgetfulness mayI appear it serves to mark, amidst all his anxietyi about money, that extreme conscientiousness whichwas to the honour of his character. — If accidemiplaced him in debt to any person, even in the mosttrivial rnonner, he was never easy till it was paid;And it should be noted, that never was he known,'on any occasion, to fail in what he said. — Of thepunftuaUty of his word, he was so scrupulous'ytenacious, that no person ever requested bettersecurity ; and he was so particular in every thingof promise, that in any appointment or meeting,or the hour of it, he exceeded military exaftness.Mr. Elwes passed the summer cf 1788 at his nhouse in Wclbeck Street, London, without any Hother society than that of two maid-servants; for ahe had now given up the expense of keeping any nmale domesrc.— His chief employment used to be |that of yetting up early in the morning to visit Ihis houses in M.irybune, which dnring the summerwere repairing — As he war there generally byfour o’clock tn the morning, he was cf cours'd onthe spot before the workmenand he used con¬tentedly to sit down on the steps before the door,to scold them when they did come — The neigh¬bours, who used to see him appear thus regularlyevery morning, and who concluded, from his ap¬parel, he was one of the workmen, observed,thttre never was so piinflual a man as the < Id car¬penter—During t1'? whole morning he would con-tiaue to run up and down stairs, to s«e the menwere not idle for an inflant, w:th the same anxiety >as if his whole happir«cS in r,fe hid been centeredin r’ e finishing th;< b nse regardless of the greaterproperty he had at stake in various places, and for( t3 ):ver employed in the minutiae only 0f affairs -*ndeed, such was his anxiety about this house,|he rent of which was not above fifty pounds a-year*that it brought on a fever, which neaaly east himms life — In the muscular and unincumbered frame|f Mr Elves, there was everything that promised|xtreme length of hfe; and he lived to above 70ears of age, without any natural disorder.[ 0l1 the d*y before Mr. Elwes took his gratuit-■us journey mro Berkshire, he delivered to the;Ue Mr t>artis that cf;py of his last w*! and testa-jient wh.ch he himself had kept, to be carried toWeosrs. Hoare6, his bankers.Mr E'wes carried with him into Berkshire,’jVe gu,neas and an half, and half a crown. — Lest] n!e"Uon ot th,s SUi0 tn-y appear singular, itoould be said, that, previous to his journey, helad carefully wrapped it up in various folds of?per, that no part of it might be lest.L HlS. Vtry Aguiar appetite Mr E’wts retained|. wunui 3 days of his dissolut on, anif walkedjo foot twelve nnks but a fortnight before be died. ■*The first symptoms of more immediate decay,his Inability to enjoy his relt at night. He wsjicqueiuly heard at midnight as ,f ftrugghng withE Zt 111 h;$ Chjrtnber‘ and u‘» ‘ J willF. 7 money, I will; aiobuoy Jhall rob me ofX property 1” __ 0i) a y onc of th, f; ^ ^ df J foom, he would Uart from his fever of( 14 ) • ,»anxiety, and, « if waking from » tronbled dre^.pin hurry into bed, ,nd feem nncorlaou. of wl^had happened, - At oilier timet, ''■ h n perfect,yawake,*he would walk to the fpot avherehidden his money, to fee if it was *,’i*In the autumn of .789, mcn’or>,JWi,S R, 'entirely ; his perception of th.rgs was decrea fve , Jhliy i and as the mind became unfe.tM^-JUrioirntpaOion^^^of his fe-rruer cornnund of ttmper. j.0 '-s death, he would e;n to reft m hiMand an eld tom hat upon Ins beau 1Mr Siwes. on the .S.h of November, . ,8|,n formed fie ns-of that utter and to al wraknef^ h c-trted hint .0 hi. grave in «*«• days -On the e'vemng of the fitfi day. he was c tnvtyctt' , ‘,. from wh'ch he rofe ho more.—His *pp^|jto b-d , ^ Ue had but , fiirat rscolleaton ot an;jwas RC"e,r hi‘n - and his lift coherent words wer‘dd Iff d to"'his’fo», Mr. John Elwes, in hop.dl,.f, him what he wilhed.”-On the morn■-h ,/the a6th of November he estpned wttnoj1C5 ^Thus died Mr Elwes, the moft per fed modiof human penury which b*s been prefented topublic for a long feries of years.