PRAYER BOOKFORAND PRIVATE PERSONS,UPON VARIOUS SUBJECTS & OCCASIONSIN WHICHAll the Prayers are so arranged, that when anyone is too long to be used without inconvenience,it may be shortened by leaving out some of theparagraphs; and this may be done w ithout injuryto the connection.FALKIRKPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.OF SCOTLAND'JBjS'BU&oQPRAYER BOOK.The following Admonition read occasionally before Family-worship, is very proper to produce seriousness of mind,and to keep up a godly jealousy, least hypocrisy and for¬mality should render this important duty of no use.My Friends and Fellow-Christians,We, dust and ashes, are assembled to speak untothe holy Lord God of heaven and earth, our Makerand our Judge, who deserves from us all possiblereverence whenever we presume lo call upon Him.We are going to pray to that God who strictlycharges us to take heed that we draw not nigh tohim—to that God who is of purer eyes than to re¬gard our services without the meditation of theHoly One and the Just, who died for our sins, buthath promised to give us whatever we shall ask ofhim in his name, and to perform all our petitions.Now, therefore, let us lift up our hearts to himthat he may fill us with reverence and godly fear,with sincerity and lowliness of mind, with livelyfaith in the blood and prevailing intercession ofJesus, and with assurance that we shall receivewhatever we ask according to his will. With theseholy dispositions we should desire always to bowdown our knees before God.8A FAMILY MORNING PRAYER.O Thou, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, andGod of Glory, who hast so loved the world as togive thy only-begotten Son, to the end, that all whobelieve on him should not perish but have everlast¬ing life, mercifully regard us merciful sinners.Thou seest how slow of heart we are to believe therecord thou hast given of thy Son. Though weread of his glory, ’now little it does effect us!Though he has a name which is above every namein heaven or earth, how little affiance do we feelin him ! or consolation from all that he hath doneand suffered!Have compassion upon us, O Lord and help us.Give us what thou hast most graciously promised,the Spirit of truth to open our understanding, thatwe may understand the things which are spoken ofwisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him;of his person and his office ; of his love and powertowards all that hear his voice and follow him;that so we may abound in clear, magnificent, andendearing thoughts of Jesus Christ the Lord; thathe may be no less precious to us than he was totlie glorious company of the Apostles and tlie noblearmy of the martyrs. Thou, O God, hast declaredthat tin Son shall be exalted and extolled, andshall be very high. Help us, we earnestly praythee, to give lam the honour day by day, moreperfectly. Enable us to comprehend with all saintsthe immeasurable extent of his love; the breadthand length, the height ami depth thereof.We beg this of thee, O our God, in order thatwe may have our affections raised up to heavenwhere Christ sitteth on thy right hand; that we4may grow more dead to the word, and walk morebecoming our Christian character; that we may beenriched as much as possible with h’ght and grace,joy and peace in this present life; and to show forththe praise of Him who hath called us out of dark¬ness into marvellous light.We beseech thee, that the excellency of ourknowledge of Christ may be evidence to others,by our adding day by day to our faith a nobleChristian courage, in defence of his truth, honour,and government; by a constant victory over ourcorrupt affections; by a moderate use of all lawfulcomforts; by a meek and quite spirit under all ourtrials ; and by resignation to the will of our heaven¬ly Father. •Grant, O Lord, that our knowledge of the re¬demption that is in Jesus may work effectually thisday upon our hearts. Let the Saviour’s love tous be the pattern of ours to all that are round aboutns ; let it make us zealous to embrace all oppor¬tunities of ministering to the happiness of one ano¬ther. If we cannot assist the needy by our alms,or protect the oppressed hy our power. O let usdiligently exercise love, in abstaining from all un-charitaoieness of speech, from all forwardness andevil tempers: let us look on the failings of otherswith pity, as if they were our own : make us kindand tender hearted, forbearing and forgiving all,as thou, for Christ’s sake, lias forgiven us. Banishfrom our dwelling all variance, whisperings, heart¬burnings, and evil surmisings. Let peace and gen¬tleness, meekness and goodness, be exercised by allof us one towards another, and the only contentionin our family be this, who shall conform most tothe will of God, by abounding in brotherly kindnessand fervent charity. Thou, O God, that makest5men to be of one mind that dwell together inspireus with a spirit ofconcoid, and harmonize all ournaturally selfish tempers. O let this benefit atleast be found from our family-devotion, that weagree better together, and live more m peace andquietness, than those who call not upon thee; wholie down and rise up like the herd of the stall, ne¬ver saying, Where is God the INflaker 1Continue, we beseech thee, if it seemeth good tothee, the voice of health and strength amongstus,and the favour of thy prosperous providence; butgive us grace to expect and to be ready for achange. For in a day, nay, in an hour, ourprosperity may be turned by thee into deep afflic¬tion, our health into pinching sickness, our ease in¬to tormenting pain, and our life into death. OLord God establish us in Christ Jesus, and give theearnest of thy spirit in our hearts, that whateverwe are called to suffer, we may not be afraid withany amazement, but bear our cross cheerfully, tothe edification of those around us.Comfort and protect continually all our near re¬lations and dear friends. Sanctify to them theirpresent circumstances whatever they are. Maythey mind the things of the Spirit, and never bedeluded by things of time and sense. Be theirguide through life, and at death give them admis¬sion into thy kingdom and glory.Promote, O God, the peace and welfare of thisour country. Let thy servant, our most graciousKing, be continually guided by thy council, andreign over us in righteousness. May he and hisminister with unwearied labour seek to promotethy glory and his people’s good.Free and relieve all who are distressed or op¬pressed ; regard their hearts, hear their sighs, and6them to see their sin in their sufferings to humblethemselves under thy hand, and find that it is goodfor them to be afflicted. Bless our enemies; dogood to them that hate us: and ever enable us toreturn good-will for evil.Accept our praise for our continued preserva¬tion by thy goodness, who has first brought us intobeing; for sleep upon our bed; for the return ofthe day after the shades of darkness; for the useof our reason, the comfort of this opportunity ofworshipping thy name; and, above all, for the lightof life, the Son of Righteousness, Christ Jesus; forwhom, with all that is within us, we would blessthy name; in whom we command ourselves andour services to thee; and to whom, with thyselfand the Holy Ghost, one God over all, be all hon¬our and praise, love and obedience, for evermore.Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed bethy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be doneon earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day ourdaily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as weforgive them that trespass against us : and lead usnot into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Forthine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,for ever and ever. Amen.A FAMILY EVENING PRAYER.Blessed and holy Lord God, who didst makeall things in thy power, who rulest all things bythy providence and fillest all things by thy pre¬sence, we, thy unworthy creatures, beseech thee tofill our heart with an awful sense of thee, ano withhumility, sincerity, and faith in Christ in our ap¬proaches to thee.We thankfully acknowledge our obsolute de-7peadence upon thee; for our lives, and all the com¬forts of them, we are indebted to thy bounty. I hyhand have fashioned us in the womb; brought usinto this world; and, ever since we saw the light,filled us with variety of good. We adore thy spar¬ing mercy: justly mightest thou have broughtupon us all the curses written in the book of thylaw against thy transgressors ; and had thy waysbeen as our ways, and thy tl.oughts like ourthoughts towards our enemies, we had long sincebeen past the power of offering to thee otir thanksand praise,—beyond the benefit of prayer, or thehope of pardon.We confess, O Lord, we have been transgressorsof thy law, in thought, word, and deed. We arechargeable with the workings and defilements ofpride and hypocrisy, of uncharitableness and sen¬suality of self-love, and worldliness of heart, not¬withstanding all the methods thou hast taken toheal these diseases of our souls. We have sinnedagainst the clear revelation of thy will, and thestrongest obligations binding us to comply with it.We have sinned against thy most inviting promises,and thy most dreadful threatnings; against thefrequent warnings of thy Word, the renewed mo¬tions and powerful convictions of thy Spirit, andthe precious blood of Christ. We have sinnedagainst the light of our understanding, againstpromises and purposes of obedience, and againstthe strongest remonstrances of our own conscien-ses.O God, we cannot recount the number of oursins, nor fully set in order all their aggravations.We should not thorefore presume to ask for thypardoning mercy, if we do not trust that thySpirit hast created within us a holy mourning for8all our wickedness, and for that corruption of ournature, from whence, as their fountain, all thesepoisonous streams have flowed. O humble us ef¬fectually; and place Oefore us all the detestablequalities which meet together in every act of sin;that injustice and contempt towards thee; that re¬bellion and ingratitude which prevail in it. Andoh! most merciful Father, speak peace to our soulsweary and heavy ladened with guilt, through thedeath and sufferings of thy dear Son, and for thesake of his precious sacrifice, avert the punishmentfrom us. Increase in us the faith whereby we onlycan be justified, and have peace with thee, throughour Lord Jesus Christ.Accompany thy pardoning mercy with thy puri¬fying grace. Help us, O Father, thou God of allpower and might, to put of the old man, which itcorruption,accordingtothedeceitful lusts, and puton the new man, which is created after thine ownimage, in righteousness and true holines. Giveus a new heart, and put within us a new spirit.O grant us a mind weaned from the pomps andpleasures, the profits and honours, and all the tran¬sitory enjoyments of the flesh; but hungeringand thirsting after righteousness. Prevent us bythy grace, that we may never more commit sinwith the deceitful hope of gaining advantage by it.Impress us continually with the conviction, thatthe gaining of the whole world can be of no recom-pence for the loss of the soul.O let the solemn account we must ere longgive, when the throne shall be set, the books beopened, and the dead, small, and great stand be¬fore God, influence the whole course of our lives;O let us so believe and so obey, that when Christ•hall come in the clouds witn power and great9glory, we may then cry out in holy raptures, Lo,this is our God, we have waited on him, and hewill save us! This is the Lord, we will be glad andrejoice in his salvation.In thy merciful protection, O God, w’e humblycommit ourselves, our dear friends and relationsthis night. The darkness is no darkness with thee,but the night is as clear as the day. Defend, webeseech thee, our person, our dwellings, and ourpossessions. Refresh us with sweet sleep; andwith the health and strength of our bodies, and thevigour of our minds let us serve thee all our days,till through the gate of death we enter into thatblessed kingdom, where there is no night; wherewe will receive the end of our faith, even the sal¬vation of our souls, through Jesus Christ; in de¬pendence upon whose righteousness and interces¬sion we further pray: Our Father, &e.FOR THE LORD’S DAY MORNING.Thanks be unto thee, O most merciful and gra¬cious God, for having devoted this day to thy ser¬vice, Never can we sufficiently express the obli¬gations we owe thee for this stated season of restfrom labour; for this delightful opportunity afford¬ed us of imitating the heavenly host, whilst w e as¬semble ourselves with one heart and voice to glorifythee, O God, our heavenly Father; and thee, ()Christ, our Advocate,. Righteousness and Life;and thee, t) eternal Spirit, the comforter ami Sanc¬tifier of the Church of God.We praise thee, who instead of loathing our per¬sons for our sinful p*ide and stubborn forgetfulnessto thee, hast taken the most effectual methods toteach us the knowledge, and plant in us the love of10thy name. We praise thee that thou happy com¬manded us to make, on this day, public confessionof our guilt, and of thy hatred of sin; ot our dis¬obedience and the liehesof thy forbearance towardsus; of our weakness, depravity, and need of thyperpetual grace to help us. We praise thee forcommanding us to make public intercession for allsorts aud conditions of men, in order that ourhearts may be the more enlarged towards them,and our hands the more ready to minister to theirnecessities. We praise thee for this opportunity ofhearing thy holy scripture, which is profitable forour reproof, for our correction, and for our instruc¬tion in righteousness.We bless thee that we have our habitation fixedin the land of liberty, under the bright beams ofthy glorious gospel; that we can worship thee ac¬cording to our conscience, no one making as afraid;that we are not required to pay adoratiou to thosewho by nature are not gods, nor compelled to bowdown at the altar of idols. We praise thee thatwe are in health and strength to use the sacred op¬portunity of going with the multitude that keepthy holy day, into the house where thou hast re¬corded thy name, and pomised to meet and blessus. How amiable are thy dwellings, O Lord ofhosts; one day employed in them is better than athousand engrossed by the business of the world.We praise thee also for passing by all the provo¬cations and insults which we have offered unto theeby abusing and profaning this holy day, by our de¬testable presumption in compassing thee about withdeceit and lies. O how often have we rushed intothe courts of thy house without meditation, with¬out prayer, without any desire to worship thee withan holy wot ship! how often have we dissembled11and pretended to give thee glory, when we wereyet living in our sins, making thee angry with usevery day, and casting the law behind us!O, our God, let the time past suffice for us tohave entered into thy courts thoughtless and un¬humbled, self-satisfied, and self-sufficient. Nowteach us effectually to reverence thy sanctuary:make us feel awful conceptions of the God withwhom we have to do, and of the infinite impor¬tance of the holy exercises in which we are goingto engage, Thou knowest our souls cleave to thevery dust of the ground. O send thy quickeningSpirit to raise our thoughts and desires unto theein every part of thy holy worship. Shield us onevery side from the flesh, the world, and the devil,that they may have no power to fill us with sinfuldistractions, and make us absent in spirit while weare presenting our bodies in thy temple.While we confess our guilt, open thou our un¬derstanding, we beseech thee, that we may under¬stand all the aggravations of our wickedness. Callback to remembrance whatever at any time hasmade us appear most vile in our own eyes, that wemay now feel a godly sonow, and be really asham¬ed and confounded at the sight of our iniquity.—Accompany, we beseech thee, the reading of thymost holy word with the power of thy own Spirit,that so the practice of thy saints, and thy peculiarfavour towards them, may stir us up to be diligentfollowers of their examples; that we may receivethe strong consolation from thy promises, which inChrist Jesus are all sure and infallibly certain, andby hearing the gospel proclaimed, attain to clearerviews of thy great salvation. When we are offer¬ing up our intercession to thee, give us to feel ten¬derness of heart, melting pity towards all our fel-12low creatures in distress, and very fervently desirethat thou wouldst immediately appear for theirrelief. When we ask for mercy and forgiveness,strength and holiness of heart, may we ask with anearnestness suited to the value of these gifts, andwith a strong conviction of our unavoidable misery,if our suit is rejected.When we join in giving thanks unto thy name,O make all toy goodness to pass before us. Ex¬cite in us such a lively remembrance of the multi¬tude of thy mercies towards us, as shall fill oursouls as it were with marrow and fatness, whilstour mouths are praising thee w ith joyful lips.—-From the beginning to the conclusion of the serviceof thy sanctuary, by the perpetual influence of thyfree Spirit, do thou uphold us, that we mav besatisfied with the pleasures of thy house, and offerto thee a pure offering in righteousness.And, as thou, O Lord, hast ordained that thepeople should seek thy law at the mouth of thyministers, do thou fill them with knowledge andsound doctrine, that they may preach not them¬selves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. Under their in¬structions delivered according to thy will, mayonr ignorance be dispelled, our slothful heartsquickened, our fears removed, our hopeencouragedand our souls established in grace.Finally, we beseech thee, O God, to incline ourhearts to sanctify the whole day. Make it our de¬light to employ our time in reading thy word, inmeditation and privacy, not yielding to the sinful¬ness of our hearts, or the custom of the world, inspeaking our own words, in thinking our ownthoughts, and finding out own pleasure on thy holyday. And grant us grace so to use this day ofrest and of public worship in this life, that we may%13none of us fail of having a part in the everlastingadoration, praise, and love of thy name in the liftto come, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.tj J.KJ 7 r.ff ', 1 i; '’ • i'' < i «»• . i ] tit'/ o Jtk r#A FAMILY PRAYER ON THE EVENINGOF THE LORD’S DAY.1 O LORD, thou art great, wonderful, and holy.I Thou art exalted far above all blessing and praise1 which can ever be afforded to thee by the angels ofI light; yet such is thy condescending mercy, thatI the door of thy house has been open this day tous, vile dust and miserable sinners. We have beenwaiting on thee in the ordinances of thy own ap-1 pointment; and as we implore the comfort andi| help of thy Spirit before we present ourselvesm in thy courts, so now, as becometh us in boundedl:i duty, we desire to return thee our most hearty111 thanks and praise if we have found any deliver-a ance from the hardness, unbelief, distraction, andI deceitfulness of our depraved hearts, whilst we wereu offering our vows unto thee.Not unto us, not unto us, but to the influence ofi:l the Spirit be the praise, if we have confessed our| sins this day with any self-loathing, and being melt-s ed into contrition for our offences : if the forbear-n ance thou hast shown towards us, and thy tender< pity in sparing us, though so richly deserving dam¬nation, have been sensible to our hearts, whilst we1 were accnsii g ourselves before thee. We praisethee if we have sanctified this day, and our holy» services in it, to the honour of our Lord Jesus! Christ, by looking only to the virtue of his atone-i ment for the remission of our sins. We bless thee\ if we have found thy word sweet unto us, and thei increasing discovery of thy love delightful to our14-hearts; if we have been filled with faith, and ex¬perience in our hearts the Spirit of Grace, of pray¬er and speculation; so that instead of saying,When will the Sabbath be gone, that we may buyand sell and get gain? we have found the spiritualprovisions of thy house a feast indeed to our souls,We thank thee if thy word preached hath searchedus, making manifest any hidden corruption; if ithas been for our edification, exhortation, and com¬fort in Christ Jesus. We thank thee if it has beena pleasant and joyful thing for us to be thankful,to speak good of thy name, and to declare thygoodness towards the children of men.Lord, increase, and stir up within us evermoredevote affections when vve call upon thee: and inwhatsoever we have displeased thee this day, O dothou pardon us. Overlook what has been wanting;forgive what has been amiss, though we are tooblind ourselves to percieve it. There is iniquityin our most holy offering. Purge away, we be¬seech thee, the defilement of them in the fountainopened for sin and for uncleanness. Accept ourdevotions at the heads of our faithful and mercifulHigh-Priest, and may ?ur sacrifices be perfumedwith the sweet incense of his merits.For his sake fulfil all the requests we have thisday made known unto thee. O give us strengthand power to live more according to thy will, inall righteousness and holiness. Let the benefit andsuccess of oar public worship be manifested in ourwhole deportment; and the influence of the goodimpressions made upon us in thy house, appear inour sincere love both to God and man, in our ab-horing all that is evil, and cleaving to that whichis good. Let every heavenly and Christian tem¬per we have this day requested, shine in our con-15i wsation, and our lives be a transcript of the gracesve ask in our prayers. May we return again tonur respective employments armed with the whole; rnnour of God, and determined in nothing wilful-y to ofifend thee. May thy praise and love, thyDower and glory; and the mightiness of thy king-lorn, be much in our thoughts, till at length weare brought to that everlasting sabbath where weball no more need the use of these means; nomote behold thee, our God, at a distance, andihrough ordinances darkly, but see the face toace, and know thee even as we are known.We desire now particularly to recommend to thymercy all who are unity to us by the ties ot kin-ijlred or special friendship. Let none of them^lightly estimate this holy day, or blindly think itnough to be merely present at the assemblies of|hy people. May they ever worship thee in spiritund truth, and esteem this day their delight,i We beg thy mercy upon all those nations which;'et sit in darkness and the shadow of death, thatshe Sun of Righteousness may arise upon them toi;uide their feet in the way of peace. O hastenjhe time, when all thou hast promised concerninghe church in the last days shall be accomplished;ing in the fulness of the Gentiles, and let allsrael be saved. Revive and cause to flourish in11 places upon earth pure and undefiled religion,t the power of godliness prevail and daily ob-in victory over the formality and hypocrisy olere nominal Christians.| Particularly we recommend to thy protection andi lenderest care, the kingdom in which we dwell.iWe entreat thee to direct, sanctify, and govern theineart of our Sovereign Lord, the king. ProsperItll the counsels for the good of his subjects. May16he live dear to thee, beloved of his people, and re^ceive at thy hands, after death, a crown of glory;Bless the Royal Family, and all that are in author*ity over us.Take us this night, O our God, under thy pro*tection. Watch over us whilst we sleep; if wdiwake in the night season, may our meditation olthee be sweet, and our souls he glad in the Lord*If we are spared to see the light of the returningday, may we rise from our beds to give all dilUgence to walk before thee to all well-pleasing.—*And whether we wake or sleep, live or die, maywe be the Lord's. To him, with thee, O Father'and the Holy Ghost, be ascribed, as most dueeverlasting praise, might, majesty, and dominion.A PRAYER TO BE USED WHEN ANYMEMBER OF THE FAMILY IS SICK. !Either entire as a Morning or Evening Prayer for the familjor occasionally with some of the family, or in part, parwgraphs selected from it being added to the usual familjdevotions.O thou infinitely great and glorious God, thoakillest and makest alive. Thou woundest and thyhands make whole. Thou bringest down to thegrave, and bringest back aj.ain. T hou dost according to thy will in the armies of heaven, ancamong theinhabitants of the earth ; and none caastay thine hand, or say unto thee, What dost thou!yet righteous art thou in all thy ways, and holy inall thy works. Even when thou t<fflictest, anc: icausest trouble and heaviness to fall upon us, it if ■that we may learn righteousness from thy judg;ments, and receive profit from thy correction.17Wherefore, though thou hast not visited ourse with sickness, and art calling us to hutnilia-n for our sins, yet we would still speak good of!y name, and love and bless thee. We desire atlis season to remember all the past mercies withich thou hast been pleased to bless us and our4usehold. God forbid that our present griefould make us unmindful of the constant benefitshave enjoyed. How long has each of our fam-lain down and risen up, gone out, and come inhealth strength and peace. How long has thedie of the Lord shone upon us without inter-ssion. For these multiplied favouis, blesstd,Lord, be thy good and holy name; since theWest of benefits is more than we deserve, andsharpest sffiiction less.To us on account of our transgressions, is mosttly due indignation and wrath, tiibulation andiiguish. Wherefore then should living men com-in, men and transgressors for the punishmenttheir sin? Shall we receive so much good atife hand of the Lord, and shall we not receive evil?impatiently and contentedly receive evil also; thisiijmper we know, O Lord, it our bounding dutyr form it in us. And as in great compassion to1, thou hast opened a way of relief for us underery trouble, by directing, commanding and en-uraging us in all our afflictions to pour out ourimpliraents unto thee, and tell thee of all we feard feel; to thee, O father of mercies, do we maker suplications at this time. O Lord, be not farpm us-In entire submission to thy most wise and holy11, do now most earnestly pray for that personlose sickness fills us with so much concern. Oak upon him (or her) in his low estate; suffer notwe beseech thee, his disorder to proceed, and ietinot his sickness be unto death, but be for the man¬ifestation of thy grace towards us ail. Thouiknovvest, Lord, his frame; lay no more upon himthan thou wilt enable him to bear with patienceand quietness of mind. And, O thou great Phy¬sician, without whom all others are of no value,thou direct to the most proper medicines, and blessthe art of healing to his body, and our great com¬fort. In thy due time restore thy servant to healthand strength again, that he may have a longer dayof grace and salvation—pro/e more useful—and da j,more good in his generation.In the meantime, however, if thou shall thing fit ,to dispose of him, O sanctify unto him this affliqition ; wmrk in him deep humiliation for his sin; „bless him with repentance unto life; enable him by ,,faith to behold the Lamb of God, and to trust irt [the fountain opened in his blood for the remission!of sins, that, being justified through faith, he may jhave peace with God through .lesus Christ ourLord. Make all his bed in his sickness; and ledpatience have its perfect, work in his soul. Raisehim up to praise ttiy name—to pay those vows hemakes in trouble before the assembly of thy saints,and to walk in newness of life. But if thou dostnot see fit to spare thy servant, whom we are nowremembering before thee, O prepare e/ery one of f,this family, according to our several relations, forthe awful stroke. With respect to himself, if thetime of his departure draweth nigh, O let his heart)be comforted by the promises in Christ, and tastethat thou art gracious unto him. May his soul besafe and happy at the hour of death; and in thegreat day of the Lord Jesus Christ may be foundlamong those who died for him.19And help us all, who are now in health, to im¬prove this loud and solemn call to prepare for our(own sickness and desease. Let us not abuse ourbodily strength to encourage ourselves in sinfulsecurity and impenitence. Grant that we may al¬ways be ready, by performing the will of our Lordthat whensoever be shall come, we ma\ be foundt of him in peace and enter into his joy; that when¬ever our health is turned into sickness, and ourstrength into weakness, and our ease into sharppain, may we not be cast down or perplexed, butt feel in our souls those supports and consolations,which the w orld cannot give, nor death itself takeaway.Hear us, O Lord our God, in these our humblei requests; forgive us our sins; and accept our per-> sons and our services, through Jesus Christ ourLord. Amen.A TH ANKSGIVING FOR THE RECOVERYOF A SICK MEMBER.Most gracious and holy, good and merciful God !we have heard, we have seen, we have experiencedthy love. Blessed, for ever blessed be thy narre thatinstead of'being know n to us by the judgements oursins have deserved, thou art manifested to us as theGod willing to forgive all our iniquities. Thouhast delivered our eyes from tears, and our heartsfrom anguish. Thy servant, whom thou hastlately afflicted, is now a monument of thy sparingmercy Thou hast chastised and corrected him,(or her) but thou hast not delivered him over untodeath. Thou hast turned our mourning into joy,and our fears into songs of praise.O may this thy servant have been spared in or-sotier to live hereafter to the glory of thy name.—We beseech Thee, perfect all that concerns his re¬covery; and grant that this gracious interpositionmay properly effect both him and every one of usin this family. From henceforth may we all moreentirely depend upon thee for the continmnce andpreservation of our dearest earthly comforts; maywe consider them as thy free gifts, O Lord ; andknow that they alone makest every earthly bles¬sing be to us what it is.And give us grace so to use and enjov all ourtemporal comforts, as those who know that thefashion of this world passeth away. Grant wemay learn, from this late affliction in our family, tolive more like families who are soon to btseparatedby death, and to give all diligence to grow richtowards God, that we may be better prepared fora breacli in our family whenever it shall cpme. Andwhensoever, O God thou shall be pleased to callany of us away, though for a season our family maythus be separated may we all he united again inheaven, and be for ever with the Lord and withone another.That we may none of us fall short of so glorious Ian end, Ogive us a clear knowledge of the excel¬lency of our God, and a firmer dependence uponthe word of thy grace. Grant us a strong love 'to the Lord Jesus Christ, and a greater resem- !blance of him; that each of us in our particular sta¬tion may be zealous for God, full of mercy and jjustice towards men, and possess every temperwhereby God can be glorified in us.Fill our minds with a more cheerful! and livelysense of our obligations to thee, especial for thislate additional mercy: write it. we beseech thee,on our hearts, so that no temptation from without.or corruption frorti within may make us ever actas if we forgot it.And now, O Lord, we again present both our-pelves and family, all we have, and all we are, a; iving sacritice unto thee for all our remaining days,ftfe with us when we are passing through the val-;ey of the shadow of death; may we then fear noevil, nor have cause to fear any. Guard us through|:he gloomy passage, and bring us safe to thine eter¬nal kingdom and glory. We humbly ask all thesejlessings, though utterly unworthy ourselves of anynotice in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, whoever liveth to make intercession for us. Amen.FOR THE DUE D1SCH \RGE OF DOMES-! UC DUTIES.O LORD and heavenly Father, who has com-anded us conscientiously to discharge each dutye owe one to another, take away we beseech thee,mm us all stubborness, pride, and self-conceit;envy, hatred and ill-will, which would lead usto despise thy gracious restraints, and destroy thatnharmony which thou wouldst have to reign intevery family. From the least to the greatest mem¬ber of each house, give them grace to walk beforeii« jthee unto all well-pleasing.Teach and incline servants to do their work withsi’' singleness of eye, as unto Christ: to be ambitiousi«i of serving their masters vviih all fidelity, and offt' preventing all just cause of anger or rebuke fromthem for obstinacy, sloth, or carelessness. Grantin them wisdom to consider their station not as anyhardship, much less any disgrace to them, but asthe post which thy fatherly love hath appointedthem to fill. Give them to understand, to their22great peace and strong consolation, that by doing'their work from a principle of faith and love to*Christ Jesus, they may stand as high in thy favour,and grow as rich towards God, as if their conditionentitled them to all respect from the world. Andmay they never imagine they are religious andChristians altogether, any longer than they abstain!from all their frauds and deceits which they areftempted to use for filthy lucre’s sake.Be merciful and gracious. O God, to all heads*and governers offamilies. Save them from haugh¬tiness ot carriage, from passionate reproaches, and?every kind of unchristain treatment of their inferi¬ors and dependents. O! convince the rich that itjis not their merit, but thy providence alone that?makes the difference of station ; and appoints lhe||subordination: not that they should be as tyrant^intheir houses, and imperious to their servants, butthat they should add to the comfort of those whoare under them. Enable them, therefore, carefullyto avoid hurting those who labour for them, bytheir forwardness, and behaving towards them with,such rudeness a« they would be ashamed to shewto any equal. Imprint upon their minds a livelyremembrance that they have a master in heaven,,who is no respector of the persons of men, before!whom both masters and servants must give a strictand solemn account of their behaviour to each,other. Inspire all who preside in families not onlywith justice, but with mercy and piety towards theinservants. Like the good centurion, whose praiseis in the gospel, may they sympathize with themin all their afflictions, be glad to alleviate their bur¬den, when sickness and old age oppress them, and ito sweeten the bitter cup that is appointed them to ldrink : Give them grace to teach their servants23the fear of the Lord by their own example, and tolet their light so shine before them, that they maybe led to glorify God also, in whose hands is theirbreath, and whose are all their ways.Dispose, O Lord, the hearts of all parents to re-M ceive and obey the commands addressed in a pe¬culiar manner to them. Teach them always to re¬gard their children as immortal souls instrusted totheir care, and for whose nurture and admonitionin the fear of the Lord they are strictly answerable;and may they esteem it their greatest pleasure andf their highest honour to be teaching their childreni the sacred truth, when they sit with them in then house, and when they walk by the way, when theylie down, and when theyrrise up. Give them toobserve, with hearts sensible affected, the naturaldepravity too apparent m every one of their off¬spring®, and to be solicitous to bring them by earlydiscipline and instruetion to him who alone can de¬liver from it. Make them vigilant to check thefirst sallies of their vile affections, to furnish themwith the means of knowing God and Jesus Christwhom he hath sent; and to habituate them fromtheir childhood to some profitable employment oftheir time and their understanding, as they areable to bear it. Keep all parents from setting abad example before the ev es of their children, andso teaching them an evil lesson against themselves.And may they dread nothing more than the insup¬portable doom of being condemned as accessaries( to the damnation of their own children by theirworldliness, sensuality, and neglect of their souls.And as thou knowestthat no parents are of them¬selves sufficient to educate their children accordingto thy will, O! do thou fill them with wisdom anddiscretion. Guide them continually with thineeye, between the extremes of showing a false indul-gertce or an irksome severity to the fruit of theirown bodies. Bless altogether the relation thouhast established between them so that parents mayhave the joy of seeing their children growing up aspleasant plants before thee; and children have rea¬son to rise up, and cal! their parents blessed; andto praise God for them in time and in eternity.And thou, O God, so influence and form theminds of all children; and turn their hearts towardtheir parents, that they may behave towards themwith all reverence, obedience and love; not stub- ■born when corrected for their faults; not heedless iwhen instructed; nof ungrateful to forget how muchthey are bound to administer to the comfort of theirparents ami to requit then*.In an especial manner we beg thee, O God,that we of this family, who are now kneeling be¬fore thee, may be forgiven for Christ’s sake, all theinstances of which we have been guilty, of irrever¬ence, unkindness, and passion, one towards another.Make us sensible of our transgressions, heartily sor-ry for them, and more vigilant for the future. O !give unto us, and every family, more of thy graceand power, that we may be of one mind, who dwelltogether in one house on earth; that at the lastday, when we appear to take our trial at the barof God, we may not be accusers of each other, forexcercising any malevolence of temper, but witnes¬ses of the grace of our common Lord, in makingus dweii together in perfect amity and Christianlove. Grant, () God, the-e our petitions; and letus all perceive the accomplishments of them by the jincrease of harmony, peace and love, amongst our- ,selves. We ask it for the sake, and through theintercession of our on!) Lord and Saviour, JesusChrist. Amen.