CHEAP TRACTS, No. 4THE LOSS OF• iTHE COMETfTP r~V 12 'r ^tr vz\ rr? ^ •■' %’ FtaHItfvJ .*4 lx a. ^VjffiesviJa. ^ jSTEAM-BOAT,|ES, . A ,a V^A iON IIEH PASSAGE FROM INVERNESS TOGLASGOW,r ,     -r —^-On'Friday tne 21.?/ October, 1825.INCLUDING• An account of the circumstances attending theraising and bringing the wreck to land,IlI I ■ - ' On 23rd Julu. 1826.LOSS OF THE COMETSTEABX-BOAT.No event which for a long time has oc¬curred, produced such a strong sensation ofthorror and sympathy, as the loss of theComet Steam-boat, at the time it hap¬pened :—and there is no doubt but thenarrative of that occurrence will continueto excite a deep interest for a long periodto come, from the distress and anguish itoccasioned, by the loss of relatives ancfiifriends in many a remote comer of our)island. The fate of the Comet is, indeed,a signal instance of the uncertainty of life,and is a solemn call to all to have con- iistantly in remembrance the Saviour’s!admonition,—“ Be ye always ready, forsuch an houn as ye think not of the Son oft)Man cometh ”3The Comet steam-boat, commanded byCaptain Manxes, sailed from Inverness forGlasgow, by the Caledonian Canal, at sixo’clock on the morning of Tuesday the 18thof October, 18i5. Besides the Captain,her crew consisted of eleven men and aboy; only six of whom were saved.The number of passengers on board, atthe time she sailed, cannot be accuratelyascertained, as the steward, the only personwho kept any record, was one of those wIiqperished. There is good reason, however,to conclude, that at least sixty individualstool; their departure in her from Inverness:and the number, bj all accounts, was con¬siderably augmented before she arrived inthe Clyde.On Tuesday evening, the Comet arrivedat the western extremity of the CaledonianCanal; and the passengers, as usual, de¬barked, and remained for a night at Fort-William. On Wednesday morning, at teno’clock, she proceeded on her voyage;and arrived at the Crinan Canal; where,1 as at Fort-William, the passengers slepton shore, at a small and inconvenientinn at tke entrance into the canal. OnI Thursday morning, at six o’clock, they: again got under way; but as the limited1 scale on which the canal is constructed pre¬cludes rapid progress, and a great number4of locks occur on the line to increase the bdelay, the vessel did not reach Lpchgilp- ■-head, at the other extremity, though only ynine miles distant, till ten o’clock in the hforenoon. Here it was discovered, that, |1cnving to some miscalculation or unexpected I)interruption in passing through the canal, j|they had not arrived in time to find ajsufficient depth of water to float the pac- ]ket out of the basin into the open loch;and, in consequence, they were compelledto wait the reflowing of the tide. At isix in the evening, there was water on thenbar sufficient to float the vessel over ; andthey again set sail. At this time, CaptainM'Innes expressed a confident hope ofbeing enabled, by favour of wind and tide,to reach Greenock by midnight, where heproposed to stay till daybreak, and thenrun up to Glasgow next morning. Onemerging from the Kyles of Bute, the wind!blew freshly ; and the captain, when urgedby several English gentlemen on board tctouch at Rothesay, where they wished tcland, manifested a disinclination to do so,on account of the great leeway which litwould have to work up, provided he agreedto their request. One of these gentlemerwas Mr Glover, the celebrated landscape.painter, who, being averse to pass part o. - n'm.mzflco C’ r “the beautiful scenery of the Clyde at ar.Jihour when it would be invisible, urged theeaptain so pertinaciously to touch £t.Rothe¬say, that at length he complied. Threeother persons besides Mr Glover landed atRothesay ; Mr M‘Alister and other twogentlemen spoke of doing so likewise ; butunfortunately changed their minds, andremained on board.From Rothesay the Comet proceededdirectly ou her voyage up the Clyde. Thewind blew freshly, and there was some sea.In the course of the evening, which wasexceedingly cold, a party of the passengersamused, and at the same time endeavoured' to keep themselves warm, by dancing ondeck. On the approach of morning thedrmirth abated, and the majority went below.In the early part of the* night there wasmoon-light; but, at twenty minutes beforeone o’clock, the moon set; and the dark¬ness gradually increased, though it neverbecame so intense as to prevent those onboard from descrying the hills on both sides; of the river. About two o’clock the Comet1 was off Kempoch Point, a headland on thesouth side of the river, between the ClochLighthouse and the village of Gourock,and close to which vessels hound forI Greenock usually steer. The importantI precaution of displaying a light had beenneglected ; and a jib-sail was set, which, ina great measure, precluded any person but \the man on the lookout from seeing direct- •ly a head. Captain M‘lnnes, according to :the most credible statement, was on thecabin-deck,conversing with such individuals tas were near him. Suddenly the man for-ward called aft, “ A steam-boat—helm a-port /” The next moment the Comet re¬ceived a tremendous shock on her bow ;and, before her startled crew were almostaware of the quarter from which dangerwas to be apprehended, she received asecond blow, equally terrific, near the lar¬board paddle-box. The vessels then driftedasunder in mutual consternation; and,shortly after, a cry of despair was heard toproceed from the Comet. The devotedcrowd on her deck had discovered that shelwas sinking ; and in three minutes after:the concussion, she went down, bow fore- fmost, in 17b fathoms water, and about I165 yards from the shore.The vessel which occasioned this horriblecatastrophe, was the Ayr steam luggage-noat, McClelland, master, bound to Ayr.As far as can be ascertained, the two boatswere doubling the point at the same mo¬ment. A gentleman who was on boardhas given the following relation :—The Ayr having touched at Greenock,he embarked and sailed about one o’clock,A. m. on Friday.;. The mwning was clear,although fne moon had set. Having gonebelow, he is unable to say what arrange¬ment had been made on deck for keeprno-a strick look-out. About half an hourthereafter, the crash of the two vessels,which he, at the moment, imagined toproceed from the Ayr striking on a rock,caused him to start from his seat, and rushupon deck. By the time our informant hadreached the deck, the two vessels havingrecoiled from each other by the concussiorf,the Comet was probably one hundredyards distant. Her deck was crowded withpeople, who simultaneously pressed for¬ward to the part of the vessel nearest theAyr. At first no cries were heard, but inprobably two minutes after he had got up,a shriek of despair was sent forth, and al¬most instantaneously theC omet disappeared.On board the Ayr, from the time ofthe collision, the master, enginemen, andcrew, were panic-struck. The engine hadbeen instantly stopped, and the master andcrew had collected on the forecastle, theformer wringing his hands, and indicatingthat their immediate death was inevitable.Our informant went forward, and entreatedthat they would instantly set on the engine,i and make for the nearest land. In this di¬rection the Comet had been when she dis-8appeared, and consequently, had this advicebeen taken, it would have, in a few seconds,brought the Ayr to the very spot wheremany of the sufferers must have beenstruggling for life. He likew:se urged thatthey would put up lights as signals of dis¬tress, but all his remonstrances were un¬headed. He then shouted as loud as hewas able, in the hope that he might beheard on shore, and that boats would putoff to their assistance ; and in effect it wasthis, alarm which brought off the boat thatsaved seven of the Comet’s people. Whilethus giving the alarm, a man belonging tothe vessel came up to him, in a menacingattitude, and ordered him to hold his peace,and go below. Finding, also, that it wasof no use to address himself to the master,he went to the pilot, and entreated that hewould steer for shoie, unknown to theother, but was answered, that he could notdo it, from what reason did not appear.Still nothing was done, except by thetwo seamen of the Harmony, one of whom, ,as mentioned in our last, leaped into the. boat at the stern, to go off' to the rescue ofthe hapless victims, when the engine was,by, some fatality set on, and the boat wascapsized, and with difficulty the seamen gotagain on board the Ayr. Immediatelythereafter, finding the vessel leaking much,9these men applied themselves, with tin*crew, to pumping her. Meanwhile the Ayrhad drifted towards the Clech light, andit w as some time before the crew recoveredtheir senses so far as to put the engine towork, and bring round the vessel on theway back.In returning, the entreaty to put intoGourock, which might have been done in afew minutes, was reiterated, but as una-vailingly as before. It was determined toproceed to Greenock; and to overcomeobjections, it was then said that the vesselwas in no immediate danger. The Ayrpassed by the fatal spot, without stopping,or any attempt being made to render thatassistance, which still might Itarve been themeans of rescuing several valuable lives.On the way, the seamen, who continuedunremitingly at the pumps, said, thatthough the leak was gaining a good deal,yet they had no doubt of makingGreenock.During a greater part of this time themaster was in the cabin, surrounded by thepassengers who had flocked thither, and at-i tempting to vindicate his own conduc t inrelation to the disaster which had justhappened.The scene which was exhibited on boardthe Comet, during the short space she re¬mained above water after the two vesselscame in contact, is described by all the s.u r-10vivers as truly heart-rending, and must haveincluded the condensed sufferings of a pro¬tracted life. All who could force their wayfrom the cabins to the deck hurried therein the extremity of terror, all doomed toexperience the fallacy of those dreams ofhome, which voyagers naturally indulgewhen near their destined port. CaptainM‘ Innes was instantly aware of the damagedstate of the vessel; but suspecting the in¬jury was foreships, he called to the passen¬gers, as a last resource, to come aft, trustingthe packet would right. At the same time,lie ordered the engine to be set on, and theboat to be run ashore. Unhappily, neitherof these expedients availed. An attempt,equally unsuccessful, was made to get outthe yawl, which was hung astern ; but, inthe hurry, the tackling could not be un-lossed. The ropes were then cut; and, inconsequence, about twenty-six or thirtypeople, who had crowded into her, were pre¬cipitated into the water, and she fell into it,keel uppermost The sea rushed into everypart of the vessel with frightful rapidity,and quickly stopped the engine; and shesoon sank from under the feet of the misera¬ble multitude on her deck, who fell ingroups on each other, and unquestionablycontributed to increase the general calami¬ty by the manner in which they clusteredtogether.i11The inhabitants of Gouroek, on be¬coming aware of the disaster, exerted,themselves in the most laudable manner toafford relief to the sufferers. CatharineWatson and Margaret Mackinnon, of thatplace, were the first persons who heard theshrieks from the river. I hey were in bed;put instantly rose, and wrapping themselvesin cloaks, hastened to rouse the villagers.They then proceeded to the beach, °ai dassisted a pilot, named Martin, (whosehospitable and humane attention to MissMunro of Tain, who was saved, deserveshonourable mention), to launch a boat, be¬fore any person arrived; and, to thehonour of their sex be it told, they offeredto go with Martin to sea. Before theywere ready to put off, however, peoplesufficient to man three boats had mustered,and they were not required to give this ad¬ditional proof of their courage. Almostevery individual who was saved had cause tothank the mhabitants of Gourock for theirpreservation ; and this aid was not confinedto the mere act of dragging them from thedeep, but extended to a generous and hos¬pitable display of sympathy afterwards,the immense quantity of luggage whichfloated ashore, before any person of authori¬ty arrived to take charge of it, was heldsacred; the most honourable feelings pre-12Vvailed among all classes; and the effectsv.pre deposited, under official cognizance#in places of safety in the village, from whichthey were afterwards removed to Greenock,to await the claims of those interested, whowere requested by advertisement, to comeforward. The property amounted to manywaggon loads. Only one act of depreda¬tion was detected, and that wras committedby strangers, wrho carried a trunk into thefields, and plundered it of some wearingapparel.At the moment the fatal accident tookplace, such of the passengers as wxere awakewere in high spirits, narrating and listeningto diverting tales. When the concussiontook place, he, with others, instantly rushedupon deck, to learn the cause. In thepanic that ensued, he, in obedience to thecaptain’s orders to all on board repaired aft.Me was an excellent swimmer, and calcu-lated upon that resource in the last extrema-Jty. \V bile standing on the deck, holding fl)y a rope, he was seized round the armJw ith a convulsive grasp by a person behind |>him, lamenting their fate. In his perilous^situation, he endeavoured to shake theperson off, exclaiming, “Let me go;” when,turning round to disentangle himself, heperceived that the person who had seized]hold of him was Mrs Sutherland. HisjA •'/l15!?art smote him at the sight; ami he im-iiediatelv apologized to her in the kindestiiannej'for having accosted her. so roughly,ieing ignorant who it was that addressediim ”At that moment he perceivedI aptain Sutherland in the act of throwingff his coat, or cloak to prepare himself forA'iniming. Mr Anderson, not thinking itIvisable to let go his hold of the rope, \fetfishing to serve the lady, gave her a strongnove forward in the direction of the boatstern, as her only chance of safety. YV hatiecame of the unfortunate couple after¬wards, lie saw not, as he was immediatelypmpelled to attend to his own safety, byinding the water covering the deck. He(stained his bold of the rope till the waterjeached bis middle, when a wave, rollingver the Comet, carried him off his feet,’he packet went down, bow formost; andhe drowning multitude sent forth the mostippalUng screams, imploring the Ayr toleturn and save them. A second wavethrew his great-coat over his head, and al-aost suffocated him. lor a time he swam(bout, ignorant of the direction in whichhe shore lay, and greatly exhausted. Inhis state he was seized by the engmemanf the Comet, who held him s6 closely,ihat he found it impossible to disentangleuimself. They were on the point ofusinking, 'when they fortunately caine 'contact with the packet’s yawl, which wtnoatnig about, keel uppermost, with seveiindividuals clinging to it. In consequenot their struggles, the yawl righted, winthey got into it, though it was full of watiBeing without oars they were unablemake any effort to gain the shodthey remained in this situation aboitwenty minutes, when a pilot-boat dicovered them In the struggle to get iito the pilot-boat, they nearly upset iihey were obliged to cling to the sides «it; and m this manner reached the shor igreatly exhausted.Several remarkable instances of sagaciiand attachment w^ere manifested bv d<wwho had been on board of the ComeMiss Munro who was saved, had sunthrice, but on coming up the last time mucexhausted, caught hold of the neck oflarge black dog, I he animal swam to tbshore, dragging her along with him ; an-although owing to some things with whics le came in contact, they were separateeyet the dog never left her side, but invariabl.V fumed back with her; and after shgot safely on shore, being put to bed, thfaithful animal leapt in, and lay down aher feet. Two pointer dogs who had losjtheir master swam ashore, and as if conJodjus of their loss, lay down at the end ofliouse in Gourock, and for a time refused; food. Another dog lay down besidene luggage that had been washed ashore,d was with difficulty induced to leave^ spot.A gentleman who was on board the Ayr,parked, that wrhen the water came inntact with the furnace of the Comet, aidden blaze of mingled flame and steamjrew a momentary glare of red light over;e sinking vessel and the devoted crowdji her quarter-deck. There were threedies and four gentlemen, cabin-passengers,I the Ayr, and about a dozen people inie steerage.Early on Friday morning, Claud Mar-jiall, sheriff-substitute of Renfrewshire,dived at Gourock, and, assisted by Mrankine of that place, and Mr Leitch, one: the magistrates of Greenock, employedimself with unremitting diligence in theainful duty of superintending the search>r the bodies, and examining them whenrought ashore. Exact descriptions of theirIresses, and inventories of the propertyoundon them, wrere taken; and, afterwards,hey were deposited in the church ofiourock. As the morning advanced, theillage filled rapidly with strangers, anxiousa learn the extent of the accident andnames of the sufferers; and a pictureunprecedented agitation and bustle ™soon exhibited. On Saturday the scene v?still more distressing. The melanehcnews had had time to spread, and perst;nocked from all quarters in search of belovrelatives. Some were not kept longsuspense. Their hopes were at once blastby the awful spectacle of the remains tthose whom they were but ill preparedbehold in the arms of death. Others, u$certain whether the persons for whojsafety they trembled were on board tlComet, or coming by another steam-boJjwhich was expected to arrive that day, eperiencedjin all its agony, the “hope thlkeeps alive despair.”^ A gentleman, wlfvisited Gouroek oh Saturday, gave tltollowing aliecting account of what 1beheld— |fVe h>1t liroomielmv at ten o'clock, A. Jiand readied Gourock fit one. On the'pasmAa young man inf ormed me that he teas pr \ceeding thither to ascertain the fate ofbrother and sister, the former of whom wton his icay to complete his studies at coliefOn arriving at Kempoch Point, the firobject (his person recognked teas his sistcibody, ivluch had just been landed from one <the boats, and presented the corpse of a finyoung woman. A bible and some money ivettaken from her pocket. At this time four c17lj' bodies had been found, by a* many beat*,veral other boat* were arranging their;Me, and the Sovereign steam-boat had\npicneed trawling with a vet. During/ stay, which did not exceed an hour, 'nearlydozen bodies were brought ashore. Some\them were fished up in pairs; and at onewl oj the net three were raised. One of?se was the body of a man, who had settm-)$ly stripped for the purpose of swimming.\e hung conspicous, at the distance of five) six hundred yards, on the side of the\ssel. sustained by the net. Me appeared\hed from the shore, but I think some jtart\his clothes were on. On being landed, thedies were exposedJor recognition. I sawI? features of several, and in general theyspeared but little distorted. One young bby,out twelve or thirteen, looked as if he wereJeep, so placid was his countenance. Aild about two years old lay among thexid, as if lulled to rest in its mother s\ms. There were two young ladies ?ieari on ichose cheelcs the hue of life hadarcely begun to fade; and there was a\ght tingle of red on their lips, though coldIf marble. Others, however, presented ascctacle truly terrific. A young wonuin\td been grappled by the throat and face-,id, when borne to the water's edge, herce downwards, with her long dishevellednr dripping with blood, and trading onthe stones, she exhibited a very frig-hiimstance of the horrible struggle that 4j of lowed the sinking of the ship. Inpockets were found trinkets of novalue. After the investigation on thevodw* were carried on barrows toe urcli, where they remained till remoiby claimants. The pilot of the Ayr nin at ten dance. This man was loud in .complaints against the public for attributiblame to the boat he steered. He appearto take some interest in the search, lexpressed much displeasure at the intiJerfince of the trawling-boat, which, he \s sted, would only hurry the bodies ndeeper water. He declared the Comet ha7)(^ was n°t perceivtdl in actual contact with the Ayr. jhis watch the hour teas a few minutes ^fore two. It would be difficult to desertthe teemgs excited by my vicinity to As^ne of so great and so recent a calamhTo know that the eye rested on a givspot, of not many yards of circumfereniwithin the Laundries of which were extendthe pale corpses of so many persons, uscathed by disease, and unpolluted by coruption, to think of the uncalmed distration of perhaps a thousand relatives, oi \whose threshold the rumour had alreatpassed, was ivell calculated to rouse eve,mournful and sympathetic feeling.19Ij'leven bodies, (four men, five women), two children,':re washed on shore on Friday the 21st, and by thejl‘at exertion of the boats afterwards employed in1 wling, the following were found.’!3n Saturday the 22nd, fourteen men and fivelinen ; on Sunday' the 23rd, ten men and tw*>imen ; Monday was stormy'; on Tuesday the 25th.a men; on Wednesday the 26th, one man, aman, and a girl ; on Thursday the 27th, one man ;'Friday the 28th, Mrs Cap. Sutherland and Mr.I Alister. Betwixt this period and the 11th Novem-r, six bodies have been found ; which, with eight■llividuals known to be amissing, produce theilancholy amount of sixty-five persons drowned,1 out of the whole passengers and crew, only thir-n have been saved.After the 28th several days of stormy w’eatherj/ing interrupted the trawling, arrangements werede for raising the Comet; an operation for which! relatives of persons missing were most anxious,t w'hich was not at that time effected.RAISING OF THE COMET.(.though nine months had elapsed since the unfor¬tunate occurrence of this catastrophe, and althoughthe attempt to raise the Comet at this time had'failed, yet another attempt to raise this ill-fatedivessel was, beginning of July, projected, and suc¬cessfully executed. An account of the operationsland proceeding, incident thereto, we extract fromthe Newspapers of the day.ire operations for raising this vessel having drawnirtheircompletion,sincethecomencement of the week7thJuly)much interest regarding it has been excited[■e, andnumbers have been daily attracted to the spot to20mark the progress of the undertaking, and wiiruthe first appearance which the shattered b;exhibited when raised above the waters surfa,Among the earliest indications of its near approawas the discovery of the body of an elderly sty Imade female, on Monday evening, supposed to be tcook known to have been on board the Comet, anearly the last grown up person, of the ill-fatpassengers, whose remains had not long previou ibeen recovered. Notwithstanding the great lenpot time it had been in the water, the body was 1little decayed. Having been taken up the river uropposite G nirock church-yard, it was then put ita shell anil interred. On Wednesday afternoon ;pair ol bagpipes were fished up from the deck oftvessel; and it will be recollected that to the inspiri :strains of this instrument some of the passengers wtenjoying themselves in the dance, not an hour heftthat dreadful collision which ushered them iieternity.It was W ednesday before any part of the wre1was got above water ; Thursday some farther p :gress was made in bringing the vessel close in sho«and on Friday Morning, when the tide had complely ebbed, a considerable part of the deck was abcthe surface ; but that portion of the vessel whicomprehends the main cabin, from lying obliqiuon the face of a bank (perhaps 30 degrees fromhorizontal position) yet remains uncovered. Tbow of the vessel is completely shattered, and the tvnel thrown down, and resting lengthways on the de-A variety of articles have been fished up from tfore cabin, including several pieces of silk dresschildren’s frocks, shoes, thread cases, and somependages of the toilet, a small trunk, &c. all whihave been taken charge of by the proper authoritiA man’s hat and a part of a jaw bone were likewibrought up on the point of a boat-hook. The whi21phibits a very melancholy spectacle.—It is expectedjit, with the assistance of a tide or two more, the(pel will.be hauled altogether on the beach wrock, Saturday Evening, July '22nd.:;Mr Brown has fixed his chains down to night for1; last time, as he expects to have the Comet dry atK' water to-morrow morning’s tide. As yet theref been no access to the principal cabin. All thats been found therefore has either been on deck orI the steerage. This morning the body of a femalejis found on the quarter deck in a state of very greatxay, so much so, that the remains of the dress alone,heated that it was probably the corpse of.:iss MTntosh. It was carefully put into a coffin and■terred immediately. 'To-day a considerable quantity of bones werehnd in the steerage, but there was in that place suchmass of rubbish and mud, that it is impossible toy.how many bodies there might be. The jacket ofirery young boy was picked up, enclosing the ribsly, and no other part was visible.(With regard to private property, not much has yetfen recovered. The piper’s chest was found yester-,y, and bank notes to the amount of about £75 en-ped ; none of which were in the least injured,ough saturated with water. A pocket book lay onlek, containing £6 in small notes, all entire ; someiver and copper also were picked up on deck. Aumber of bottles, supposed originally to have con-i ned whisky, were found full, but the spirit was(variably changed for a liquid of a bitter, taste,i The vessel herself is so complete a wreck that shelust be broken up ; she can never again float. It re¬acts much credit on the ingenuity of Mr Brown thatF succeeded in bringing her ashore. Both stem andjern are quite smashed, and the deck planks tom up.this must have been chiefly by the chains last winter,> the first attempt to raise her.The copper boilers have collapsed in a surpridlmanner, and, as boilers, are useless. The sudJcondension of the steam must have produced a vaciu|and the pressure of the surrounding water onoutside caused this effect. Engineers have alre.iset to work to take the machinery to pieces, unthe direction of the proprietors.It is a remarkable circumstance that the body oticfemale found floating from the wreck on Tuesday, i|supposed to be that of Mr McDonald of Borrodafcook-maid, was in a better state of preservation tany other yet found ; and it has been freely asserthat she was in a state of intoxication at the timeaccident happened.The Sheriff, Mr Marshall, has been indefatigabl ihis attention to the preservation of property. It ifound necessary to prevent so many people frlcoming on board as presented themselvesforadmiss:and orders accordingly were issued to a boat’s crfrom one of the revenue cutters on this station, unthe command of an officer, to admit none on borStill Curiosity prompted many respectable gen-men, and even ladies, to appeal personally toSheriff, who was thus placed in the disagreeable pdicament of being obliged to make special refusefor had all been admitted who applied, there wonot have been standing-room for them, and noneall to work.Sunday Morning,—Owing to an accidental circustance the Comet has not been moved so far irto ebb the cabin at low water, yet a number of arti<have been got out, among other things Mr Roltravelling bag. I saw it opened, and the moneymuch talked of recovered; it was tied in a prtlarge parcel hy itself, without any wrapper, but pfectly unruffled and fresh-looking.A silver tea-pot belonging to Captain Sutherlaan Andrew Ferrara sword of Sir Joseph Radcli23tme shooting ami fishing apparatus, and a few smalliiskets and parcels of wearing apparel, have all been>t from the wreck this morning; hot no more bodies,i Nothing faither can be done from this time (nineclock) till seven in the evening, when it will be neariw water again.1 The guard of the mad coach, who came up lastignt, says, that the report in Greenock was, thattne hundred pounds had been found In Mr Kollo’sravelling bag. •(Another, and we believe a latter report, mentionslat about £1000 (since found to amount to £632 13 )kes of different banks has been found in the later Kollo’s box with his journal; Capt. Sutherland’slr°rd, his military cap, and his lady’s silver tea-pot-base containing a fowling piece, with the necessaryipendages, the property of the late Mr M'Allister -le captain’s gold watch was found in his bed, and aPX containing a considerable sum of money.From the Glasgow Herald of yesterday.This unfortunate vessel which has so long and soeatly excited public attention and sympathy wastally and completely hauled upon the beach on Sun-.y week. The work of the contractor and theipermtendance of the Sheriff were both finished atr Penod. Two trunks were got on Sunday eveningewise a fowling piece and a military cap which be-|iged, it is supposed, to Capt. Sutherland. Thejlowing is a correct account of the money which[3 been recovered :—In Mr Kollo’s travelling bag,...£632 13 OPiper’s chest about............ 75 0 0Captain’s money,. .t........t 15 0 0And small sums......... 8 0 0£730 13 0The notes were wet but not materially damage:Several law-papers (leases, &c.) belonging to Mr Ro¬we re found in a good state of preservation, and t!crockery-ware in the steward’s cabin was in gene ifound uninjured. Sunday being a beautiful day t!wreck was visited by a great number of people frrGreenock and the neighbourhood. In the eveninggentleman counted 1130 passing his house fr<Greenock to Goprock within an hour, and the nuber who visited the spot where the Comet wdrawn from the water is estimated to be little sh<0,000. The vessel itself is a perfect wreck ; a»it is now7 impossible to say how much of it vtdirectly damaged by the collision. It may be metinned, that the job was contracted for, and of cougiven to the lowest bidder, which Mr Brown h;pened to be. We are told the Clyde ShippiiCompany offered to undertake it at their own risk,receiving £400 if they succeeded ; Mr Brownunderstand was to receive £80 if the attempt to raithe vessel failed, and £300 if successful. H6 Itmanaged it we are told with great ability, but vnot gain much, the Expenses being very consideralThe boat is now on the beech, and nearly dry at 1water; and workman are employed taking outthe engine. On Friday last, precisely nine monhad elapsed from the date of the accident.Greenock Adventi.