Faith’s Plea upon God’s Covenant.aS E ■ R MONPREACHEDOn a Preparation-day before difpen-fing the Sacrament of the Lord’sSupper, at Kinglaffie, upon PfalmIxxiv 20. Have refpecl unto the Co¬venant.By the late REVERENDMi> RALPH ERSKINE,IS^inifter A the Gofpel at Dunfermline.THE ELEVENTH EDITION.*i %%%%j  .GLASGOW:!Printed by J. and J. ROBERTSON.MDCCLXXVILC 3 )Faith’s Plea upon God’s Covenant.P S A L M lxxit. 20.Have refpeti unto the Covenant, &c.'' g "'HE Pfalmift, in pleading for the church andpeople of God, and that he would appearfor them againft their enemie?, ufes feveralarguments. Particularly in the dole of the preceed-ing verfe, there is fomething he pleads God maynot forget, ‘ Forget not the congregation of thy‘ poor for ever and the rather he ufes this argu-meftt, becaufe he had find, Pfalm ix. 14 ‘ The‘ needy fh ill not he forgotten ; the expedation of‘ the poor fhall not perifh for ever.* There is, inthis verfe, fbmething he pleads, that God may Re¬member and have regard unto, ‘ Have refpeft un-‘ to the covenant ’ Thou haft brought us into co¬venant with thee, might he fay, and though we areunworthy to be refpeUed, yet ‘ have refpect unto‘ the covenant of promife.’ When God delivershis people, it is in remembrance of his covenant.Lev. xxvi. 42. Then will I remember my cove-‘ nant with Abraham, Ifaac, and Jacob: and I‘ will remember the land.’ We cannot expeft hewill remember us, til) he remember his covenant:hence, therefore, we propofe to illuftrate the fol¬lowing truth,A 2Doctrin ?4FAITH’S PLEA uponDoctrine. “ That one of Faith’s ftrongpleas*< with Gf'd is, That he would have refpeft to the“ covenant.”If we would deal with God for mercy, or pleadwith him for favour, or look to him for any goodat this occafion, let expeft it only upon thisground The refpeft he hath to the covenant, andplead upon this argument.The method we would obferve, as the Lord fhallafTnl, for briefly handling this fubject, fliali be thefollowing.I. Shew what Covenant it is he will have a re-fpefr to.II. What it is for God to have a refpett to thecovenant.Ill What it is in the covenant he hath arefpeftto.IV. What kind of refp.'<n: he hath to it.V. Why he hath a refpett to it, and fo;why itis a luitabie plea and argument in facingfor mercy.VI. Make fome application of the whole.I. We are then firft to fhew what covenant it ishe wiil have a refpeft to. The covenant here fpo-ken of is the covenant of grace and promife, madein Chrifl Jefus ‘ before the world began;’ and pub-lifhed in this gofpel to finnerx, Jer. xxxii 39. 40.* And I will give them one heart and. one way,* that they may fear me for ever, for the good of* them, and of th?ir children after them. And I* will make an everlafting covenant with them,‘ that I will not turn away from them to do them* good ; but I will put my fear in their hearts, that* they flwll not depart from me. Ezek. xxxvi. 26.* A newGOD’S COVENANT. 5‘ A new heart alfo wil! I give you, and a new fpirit‘ will I put within you; and 1 will take away the‘ ftony heart out of your flelh, &c. Jer. xxxi. 33.‘ But this lhall be the covenant that I will make‘ with the houfe of ifrael, after thofe days, faith‘ the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts,‘ and write it in their, hearts, and 1 will be their‘ God; and they (hall be my people.’ And inPfilm Ixxxix. throughout. It is called a covenantof Grace; becaufe grace is the beginning and theend, the foundation and top ftone of it: even gracereigning through righteoufhefi. It is called acovenant of ivle/cy , beca'ufe therein mercy to themierable is proclaimed through juftice fatisfyingblood; for there ‘ mercy and truth met togetherand all ‘ the fore mercies of David’ are conveyedthereby. It is called a covenant of Peace and Re¬conciliation ; becaufe it both treats of peace withGod, and makes it good. It is called a covenant ofPromile; becaufe it lies in promifes with referenceto us; and thefe to be accomplifhed upon the con¬dition already fulfilled in GhrifVs obedience and fa-tisfaftion; and becaufe therein the faithfuinefs ofGod is pledged, for making out all the promifes tobelievers, and the children of promife. It is cal-led a covenant of Salt; becaufe it is an incorrupti¬ble word, ‘ an everlafling covenant, well ordered‘ in ail things and fore.’ In a word it is a cove¬nant of Help to poor, helpleis -finners, faying, ‘ I‘ have laid help upon one that is mighty’. O‘ Iffael, thou haft dcftroyed thyfelf, but in me is‘ thy help.’ It is a covenant of Pardpn to the guil-! ty, laying, ‘ 1, even 1, am he that blottcth out thy‘ tranfgreffions for mine own fake, and I will notremember thy lins.’ It is a covenant of Supplyto the needy, laying, ‘ When the poor and needy' A 3 ‘ feck6 FAITH’S PLEA e p o n* feek water, and there is none, and their tongue‘ faileth for third, I, the Lord, will hear them, I>* the God of Ifrael will not forfake them.’ It isa covenant of Gifts, wherein grace and glory arefreely given ; and in the difpenfation thereof, Godfays, come and take all freely, himfelf, his Chrift,his Spirit, and all, Rev. xxii. 17. Ifa. Iv. 1.If. We are to fhew what it is for God to haverefpeft to the covenant.1. God hath refpett to the covenant when he re¬members it, and fo remembers us, as in that fore-cited, Lev. xxvi. 42 ‘ I will remember my cove-‘ nant, and then will [ remember the land.’ ThusPfalm cix. 5. ‘ He hath given meat to them that %‘ fear him.’ Why, he will ever be mindful of hiscovenant, If he comes to give us meat to feed ourfouls at this occafion, the ground will be, he willbe mindful of his covenant, mindful of his pro-mi fe.2. God may be laid to have refprft to his cove¬nant, when he regards it. He hath no reafon tohave refpeft or regard to us, but he fees reafon tohave a regard to his covenant; he puts honours up¬on it, for reafons that I (hall afterwards fhew, on¬ly I fhall lay here, his honour is engaged therein,therefore he lays, ‘ My covenant will I not break,‘ nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips,’Plalm Ixxxix 34. He hath more regard tcrit thanhe hath to heaven and earth : for he fays, ‘ Hea-‘ ven and earth fhall pafs away, but my words lhall‘ not pals aw^.’ He hath fuch regard to it, thathe will never break it, but ever keep it.3 He hath refpeft to his covenant, when he e-ftabjifhes it. And when we pray, that he would |have ‘ relpeft to the covenant,’ we not only pray' he 1GOD’S COVENANT. 7he would remember the covenant, and regard thecovenant, but efhhlilh the covenant betwixt himand us, as he (aid to Abraham, Gen. xvii. 7 ‘ I‘ will eftablith it between me and thee, and thy‘ feed after thee.’ He (hews refpe£t to the covenant,when he makes the covenant take hold of us, andmakes us take hold of the covenant; for then hemakes us put relpeft upon him, and upon his co¬venant.4. He bath refpeft to the covenant, when he per¬forms the covenant-promife, according to Micah vii.20. 1 Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, and‘ the mercy to Abraham, which thou haft (worn to‘ our fathers from the days of oldand he doesthis, when he afts according to the covenant, oraccording to the mercy that made the promife,and the truth that is engaged to make out the pro¬mife.In (hort the Pum of this prayer, as it concerns theI import of the word Refpeft, ‘ Have refpeft to theII ‘ covenant,’ is, ‘ Lord, remember the covenant, and‘ fo remember me ; Lord, have regard to the cove-' * nant, and let me be remembered on this ground,‘ when there is no reafon why I Ibould be regard-‘ ed ; Lord, eftablith thy covenant with me, and lb‘ put honour upon thy name manifefted in that co-! ‘ venant, and do to me according to the promile of* the covenant, catafe me to hope in thy word, and‘ then ‘ remember thy word on which thou haft‘ caufed me to hope ;’ and deal with me not ac-‘ cording to my fin and defert, but according to thy‘ covenant and mercy in Chrift Jefus.’III. We are next to (hew what it is in the cove¬nant he hath a relpeft to, or that we (hould pleadupon.A 4i. * Have8FAITH’S PLEA upon1. ( Have refpeft to the covenantthat is, to theMediator of the covenant. Though thou owcft norefpett to me,, yet deft not thou owe refpeft, andhaft thou not a greater refpeft to the Mediator of thecovenant, even to him whom thou haft ‘ given to‘ be a covenant of the people ?’ For his fake let mebe pitied; have refpeft to the relation he bears tothe covenant, even to him who is the Mediator,Teftator, Witnefs, Meftenger, Surety and all, ofthecovenant. Have refpeft to his offices, and let himget the glory of his laving offices. It is a ftrongplea to plead with God upon the rcTpett he bears toChrift; God cannot win over Rich a plea as that.He muft own his regard and refpeft to Chi iftf whohath paid Rich a rtfpeft to him, and ‘ finilhed the4 w’ork that he gave him to do.’2. Have refpeft to the covenant, by having re¬fpeft to the blood of the covenant. The blood ofChrift, that is reprelented in the facrament of thefupper, it is the ‘ blood ofthe covenant,’ called, ‘ the‘ new Teftament in his blood ;’ becaufe all the pro-mifes are fealed therewith, and fo ‘ Yea and Amen• jn Chriftthis is the condition of the new cove¬nant. The covenant of works had only the aftiveobedience of the firft Adam lor its condition: butthe condition of the covenant of grace properly, isboth the aftive and paffive obedience of the lecondAdam, his doing and dying. Mow, Lord, haverefprft to that blood that fealed the covenant: fincethe condition is fulfilled to thy infinite fatisfaftionlet the promifed good be conferred upon me.3. Have relpeft to the covenant, by having re¬fpeft to the oath of the covenant, Heb. vi. 17. Thepromife is confirmed with the covenant of God;‘ That by two immutable things wherein it is im*4 poffible for God to lye, we might have ftrong con-4 folation/GOD'S COVENANT. #^ folation,’ &c. Now, Lord, wilt thou not haverefpeft to thine own oath ? Haft thou not ‘ fwom* by thy hoiineft, thou wilt not lye unto Da-‘ vid ?’4. Have refpefl to the covenant, by having a re-fpeft to the properties of the covenant. This wouldbe a large field ; I fum it up'in a few words. Haverefpeft to the covenant; that is, Lord have ref.>e£tto the fulnefs of the covenant, and let me be fup«plied, for there is enough there; it contains * all my‘ falvation and all my deftre.’ Have refpeft to thefreedom of the covenant, and let me, however un¬worthy, (hare of the grace that runs freely thence.Have refpefl to the liability of the covenant, andlet me, be pitied, though unftable as water, and in¬firm, yet the covenant Hands fall; remember thyword that ‘ endures for ever.’ Have refpefi: to theorder of the covenant, that ‘ is well ordered in all‘ things,’ as well as fure. * Though my houle be‘ not fo with God,’ fays David, ‘ yet he hath made‘ wkh me an everlaftiog covenant, u'ell ordered in‘ all things and fure.’ Though my houfe be out oforder, and heart out of order, and my frame outof order, and all be in confufion with me, yet fee,according to thy covenant, to order ail well.IV. We proceed to Shew what kind of a refpefthe hath to the covenant, that we may be the moreengaged to plead upon it.1. He hath a great and high refpeft to the cove¬nant. It is the covenant of the Great GOD,\ with his Great and Eternal SON, for the ho¬nour and glory of his great Name; and therefore,! he cannot but have a great and high refpeft untoI it. His great name is manifefted in it; and there-i fore when we plead his refpefl to the covenant, weA 5 plead1 — ——'—^ IO FAITH’S PLEA up osplead in efcft, faying, ‘ What wilt thou do for thy‘ great Name ?*2. He hath a dear and lovely refpeft to the cove¬nant, for it is the covenant of his grace and love,wherein he (hews his infinite love to Chrift, andthrough him to a company of wretched finners. Ftis a covenant of kindncfi, Ifa. liv. 10. ‘ My kind-* nefe Fhali not depart from thee, neither fhall the* covenant of my peace be removed, faith the Lord,* that hath mercy on thee;’ intimating, his cove¬nant of peace is a covenant of kindnefs, wherein hentanifefls his deareft love ; therefore he hath a dearrefpeft to it.3. He hath a full refpcfl: to the covenant, a re-fpefl to every promife, of it ‘ they are ail yea andamen, to the giory of God,’ 2 Cor. i 10. He hatha refpcfl to all of them beenufe they * are all yea* and amen,’ and becaufe they are ail thus rati¬fied in Chrifi, to the glory of God. He hath re-Ipeft to every article of the covenant, ‘ not a jot* Fhall fall to the ground.’4. He hath an everlafting refpeft to the cove¬nant; therefore, it is called ‘ an evcrlafting cove-* nant,’ it is Fecured by an everlafiing righteouf-nefs; it is made between cverlafling parties ; it isreplenifhed with everlafting bleFTings; it is rootedin his everlafting love : therefore he is very mind¬ful of his covenant, and will never ceafe to havereFpeft to it. - 'Well then, fay you, What need we pray andplead, that he would have refpe<ft: to his covenant ?Why, if it be fure that he hath, and will for everhave, a refpeft to the covenant, then uc m ;y pray |iwith the more aFTurance and confidence; lb that jlthere is here ftrong footing for our prayer: but be- (Tides, when we pray, and fay, ‘ Have refpeft unto j‘ the UItGOD’S COVENANT.c t!ie covenant,’ we Peek, that he would (hew therefpeft that he hath unto it, that he would (hewand make it manifeft unto us, that we may have thefaith of it, and enjoy the fruits of it, and the blef-fed eflc£h of that refpeft to it, in our participationof the bleffings thereof.V. The next thing was, to (hew why he willhave refpeft to his covenant; and confequently,whence it is (uch a fuitable plea and argument forus. Why,i. When he hath refpeft to the covenant, hehath refpefl to himfelf; the framer of it he ownshimfelf to be, Pfal. Ixxxix. 3. ‘ I have made a co-‘ venant with my chofen.’ Why then the ftrengthof the plea is, ‘ have refpeft unto the covenant/and fo have refpeft to thyielr, and thy own glori¬ous name and attributes, and let them be glorified,in (hewing regard to the covenant. Have rcfpeffcto thy wifdom that fhines in the contrivance of thecovenant, ‘ the manifold wifdom of God; yea, the* wifdom of God in a myflery’ that here appears.Have refpefi to thy power that (bines m the effica¬cy of the covenant, not only for over-poweringprincipalities and powers, but overcom ng thyfelfiand the power of thine own wrath, by the powerof thy love. Have refpett to thy holinefs, that(bines in the holy oath of Jehovah, by which it isconfirmed, and the holy obedience of Jcfus, bywhich it is fulfilled ; fb that, ‘ by the Sinfi 1 dif-‘ obedience of one, many were made finnas, by* the Holy obedience of another Glorious One, ma-‘ ny are made righteous.’ Have refpeft to thy juf-tice, that (bines in the blood of the covenant, the(acrifice by which juftice hath condign and infinitefatisfaftion. Have refpefl: to thy mercy and grace,A 6 thati 2 f A I T FI * S PLEA v p onthat reigns through that righteonfnefs to eternallife Have refpeft to thy truth and faithfulnePs,that fhines in accomnUfhing all the promifes of thecovenant, upon the ground of Chnft’s having ful-lilled the condition. Have refpefr Unto thy eter¬nity and immutability, in the unchangeablenefs ofthe covenant; lliew that thou art God, and chang-eft not. Thus have refpeft to thyfelf.2. When he hath rePpecF to the covenant, hehath refpefV to his Son, Ghrifl, the center of it, andin whom it (lands fafl as he owns, Pfal txxxix 28.‘ My covenant (hail (land fad with him.’ Whythen, the flrength of the plea is, ‘ have refpeii} to‘ the covenant,’ and fo (hew refpeft to thy Son :have refpeft to him in his perfbn, as he is thy Sonand our Saviour; Emmanuel, God man ; in his di¬vinity, wherein he is equal with God ; in his hu¬manity, wherein he is the Mafler-piece of God’s■works. Have refpein: to him in his purehafe, whichis the fubftance of the covenant bought with hisblood. Have refpeft to his death and refurreftion ; Nfor thou lovcft him on this account, John x. 17. jj‘ Therefore doth the Father love me, because I lay 11‘ dbwn my life, that I may take it up againwhere we fee that Chrid, as dying and rifing inthe room of his people, is the ohjeft of the Fa¬ther’s love, delight, and edeem. Have refpeft un¬to his interceffion, wherein he prays for all thebleffings of the covenant that he hath purchafed:Doth not the Father hear him always? Have re-fpe<£t to his commidion, which is fealed by thee;for ‘ him hath God the Father fealed,’ appointed,and authorized unto all Paving offices, relations, andappearances, let him get the glory of ail thefe. Oftrong plea!3. When he hath refpeft to the covenant, hehath* T5 0DSS COVENANT. 13hath refpcft to his Spirit, the great apoher of thecov^nant-bieffings, and executo - of the Tenament,' fealed with the blood of Chrift, and by whom co*i| Venant*love is (bed abroad upon the heart, Rom. v.1 5. Why then, the ftrength of the plea is, ‘ haverefpeft to ithe covenantthat is, have refpedl toI thy own Spirit, that he may get the glory of ap¬plying by his power, what Chrift hath purchafedby his blood. Have refpeft to the Promife, of theSpirit that thou haft made, that ‘ when he is come,‘ he (hall convince the world of fm, righteonfnefs,I ‘ and judgment,' and teftrfy of Chrift, and glori¬fy Glirid, by (hewing the things of Chrift. Haverefp^ft to the offices of the Spirit, as he is a con-i vincer, fan&ider, and comforter, according to the] order and method of the covenant. Have refpefi:| to the honour of the Spirit, who is the all in all:| of the covenant in point of power, and powerfuli| manifeftation, communication, and operation —(Have refpeift: to the relations, of the Spirit, as heis the Spirit of the Father and of the Son, the Spi-ij rit of the covenant, and of all the covenanted feed.I Hence,. 4. When he hath refpeft to the covenant, hehath refpefl- to his people on the account of the co;venant of promife; for they, ‘ as ffaac was, are the‘ children of promife,’ Gal. iv. 28. Why then, theftrength of the plea and argument here is, Lord,4 have refpeft to the covenant,’ and fo (hew regardand refperft to us. We have no confidence to claimany refpe£t at thy hand, but merely upon the ac¬count of the refpe£l thou haft to thy covenant.Have refpeft to our perfons on this ground, fincethe covenant provides acceptance ‘ in the beloved,’Eph. i. 6. Lo k upon us in the face of thine a-nointed, and in the glaft of the new covenant.Have14 FAITH’S PLEA trporfHave refpeft to our prayers and performances on ithis ground, fince the covenant hath providedmuch incenfe to perfume the prayers and offerings |,of all faints, upon the golden altar that is before |the throne, Rev. viii. 3. Hive refpeft to our tears,when we figh and groan, and mourn, and weepbefore thee, fince the covenant provides a bottlefor our tears, Pfalm Ivi. 8. ‘ Put th®u my tears in ;* thy bottle.’ Have refpe£l to our needs on thisground, when we are hardened, that we can nei¬ther pray nor weep, nor (Tied a tear, fince the co- Ivenant provides fupply to the poor and needy, |Philip, iv. 19. ‘ My God (hall fupply all your |‘ need, according to his riches, in glory, by Jefus ;t« Chrift.’VT. I would now proceed to make Pome appli- |ication of the fubjeft in the(e four words. ’1, Hence (ee a mark and charafVer of true belie- |vers, that are fit for a communion table, they are ;of God’s mind ; he hath a refpeft to the covenant,and they have a refpett to the covenant; and hence ;they know what it is to plead with God upon therefpeft that he hath to the covenant; they couldnot do Co, if they had not a high refpeft to it them*(elves'; they have fuch a refpeft to the covenant in fkind as God hath. They have a great refpeft toit, Co as they effeem it more than all things in a jworld, they would not give one promife of it, on iwhich they have been caufed to hope for all thegold of Ophir. They have a dear and kindly re- ■fpefl to it, as all their falvation and all their defire : 1yea, and all their delight alfo. The word of graceis Tweeter to them ‘ than honey and the honey‘ comb.’ They have a full and univerftl rePpeft toit, and to all the promifes of it; they refpeft thepromiler * » ;GOD’S COVENANT. ^ 15I romife of parity as well as the promife of par¬son: the promife of lalvation from fin as well, ands much, as the promife of falvaiion from hell;sjhe promife of holinefs as well as of happinefs. Asiihey have a refpeft to all God’s commandments,p they have a refpett to all his promifes ; and par-sicularly as David had his golden Pfalms, fo theynave their golden Promifes, that they are made toting upon. Yea, they have an everlafiing refpeft10 the covenant and to the promifes thereof; evenwhen their frame fails them, when their fweet en-oyments fail them, yet their rcfpctt to the cove*aant remains, and their refpett to the Maker of thecovenant, to the Mediator of the covenant, to thealood and oath of the covenant, to the Spit it of thecovenant, and to the bleffings and benefits of it.[They have an cveilafiing refpeft to the grace of thecovenant of grace; they are adorers and admirerspf free grace. They have an everlafling rcfpedl to,jand remembrance of the words of the covenant,^particularly thefe words that have been let in withlany life and power upon their foul, or that theyhave been caufed to hope upon ; whatever theyforget they can never forget fuch a word thatbrought life to their fouls; ‘ I will never forget thyf words, fays David ; for by them thou haft quick-* ened me.’ They have fuch an everlafiing refptft)to the covenant, that, when they have nothing infthe world to truft to; they will rely on the cove-(nant, and confide in fuch a promife, and plead u-pon it, faying, Lord, * Have refpedl: to the cove-* nant.’2. Hence we may fee the mifery of thofe that areunbelievers, and remain * firangers to the cove-j* nant of promife,’ and have no refpcfl to the co-jvenant. It is mifery enough, that God hath no re-fptft!r6FAITH’S PLEA upohfpe£l to you: no refpe£t to your perfons nor pra;ers, as it is Paid, ‘ To Cain and his offering, G* had no rerpeft,’ Gen. iv. 5. So God hath no refpeft either to your perfons or performances : theare an abomination to him. Your prayers to hirare but like the howling of a dog, if you have ncVer taken hold of his covenant, nor feen thefpeft that God hath to the covenant. You havno refpett to God, while you have no rePpeft tthat which he refpefts Po highly. And as he hatno rePpeft to your perfbn or performances, he hatno rePpeft to your tears : they never flowed froifaith’s views of a pierced Chrifl. He hath no refpeft to your fouls, the ‘ redemption therefore ceal‘ eth for ever,’ becaufe you have no due rePpeft tcthe Redeemer’s blood and righteoufnefs. He hatlno refpeff to your communicating: nay, he difap'proves of it, and difeharges you to Pit down at histable, on peril of eating and drinking your damnation. God hath no regard nor refpeft to youtfalvation, becaufe you have no regard nor rePpe£lto the Saviour he hath provided and offered. Godthinks as little to damn you, as you think little todifhonour him. God thinks as little of you, as youthink little of fin, and he hath as little refpe£l toyou, as you have to Chrifl and to the covenantWo to you, if you remain in this cafe, for the dayis coming, wherein God will, before all the world,,fhew no more refpett to you, than to fay to you,* Depart from me ye turfed, into everlafting tire,,* prepared for the devil and his angels!’ But,3. Hence we may fee the hapjainefs of believers,,that have fuch a refpe£t to the covenant, as I wasfpeaking of, a great, dear, full, and perpetual re.fpe£t to it, and the Mediator of it, who have tak¬en hold of the covenant through grace, and knovwhat"■..GOD’S COVENANT. 17what it is to take hold of God in the covenant, totake hold of God in a promife, and to hold himby his word, and rely upon him in it, faying, Lord,‘ Have refpeft to the covenant;' here is your greathappinefs, God hath refpcct to you : What refpeft ?I Even to your perfons and offerings, as it it (aid ofAbel, Gen. iv. 4. ‘ God had a refpt.£t to him and‘ to his offering.’ Though you be faying in yourheart, Gh ! how can he have refpeft to me, blackand vile, and guilty me ? Why 1 not for your lakeindeed, be it known unto you, but for his cove¬nant’s fake, and his name’s fake. He bath a re-fpeft to your praying, and prailing, and commu-: nicating; becaufc he bath a rdpctt to the covenant.He hath a refpi.£t to your name, though ‘ the name‘ of the wicked (hall rot, your name fnall be in e-1 * verlafting remembrance;’ for God hath put hisname in you ; fomething of Chrift in you, fame-thingof the covenant in you. Some obferve, w'hcnAbram’s name was turned to Abraham, there wasfome of the letters of the name Jehovah put mAbram’s name. Indeed, God gives the believer ai new name, that he hath a refptft unto, he hath arefpttt to your fuits and fupplications; ‘ I have‘ heard Ephraim bemoaning himfelf. O my dove,‘ that art in the cleft of the rock, in the iecret pla-ces of the flairs: let me hear thy voice, let me‘ fee thy countenance, for fweet is thy voice, and‘ thy countenance is comely ’ He hath a refpeftto his doves, when pouring out of their heartsI before him ; that voice that the world laughs at,: God hath a refpeft to it. He hath a refpedt to• your-blood, precious in his fight is the blood of'his faints. He hath a refpett to your fouls; andI hence he gave his blood to be a ranlom for them,and when your foms languiih, he fends his Spirittoi3 FAITH’S PLEA uponro reftore them, and when you die, he will fendhis angels to bring them to heaven. He hath arefpeifl to your bodies; you ought, being boughtwith a price, to glorify him in your fouls and bo¬dies, which are his. When your bodies go to thedull, he will take cere of that Juft, and lofe no¬thing of you, but raife you up at the laft day, andmake your vile bodies like unto his glorious body ;and fo (hall ye ever be with the Lord. He hath arefpeft to yo i, (uch a refpeft, that he puts honourupon you, ‘ Since thou waft precious in ‘ myfight, thou haft been honourable.’ He hath madeyou kings and priefts to your God, Jacob wascrowned a prince in the field of battle, the field ofprayer, when he wreftled with the angel and pre¬vailed as a princel The poor wreftltng man is aprince, and the poor wreftling woman a princefs,in God’s fight: This is the honour of all the faints,They have power with God, and therefore no won¬der that they have ‘ power over the nations, torule them with a rod of iron :’ they judge and tor¬ment them that dwell upon the earth, even here;and ‘ know you not, that hereafter the Lints fhalljudge the world?’ God hath a refpett to you, andhe will (hew it in due time, becaufe he hath a re-fpeft to the covenant, and hath filled your heartwith refpeft to it alfo.4 Hence fee the duty incumbent upon us iapleading with God for his favour, prefence, andbleffing; let us go to him both in fecret prayer, andin foie iin approaches to his table, crying, Lord,* Have refpedt to thy covenant.’ I know not a cafeyou can be in, but the covenant exhibits a cure,and you are allowed to plead it, Ezek. xxxiv. 27.After many precious new covenant promifes, it islaid, ‘ For this will I be enquired of by the boufe;S-|iGOD’S COVENANT. 19‘ of Ifrael, to do it for them,’ and how are we toenquire, but by pleading the refpctt he hath tothe covenant ? Have you a polluted heart, with thefilth of fin; a polluted confcience, with the guiltof fin ? Why, here is an article of the covenant:‘ I will fprinkle clean water upon you, and ye‘ fhall be clean, from all your filthinefs, and from‘ all your idols will I cleanfc you.’ veife 25. Othen, go to God for cleanfing, and plead, faying,O Lord, ‘ Have refpeft to the covenant.’ Haveyou the old hard flony heart ftill within you, andwould you have it renewed and foftned ? Here isan article of the covenant, ‘ A new heart will I‘ give you, and a new fpirit will I put within you:‘ I will take away the ftony heart out of your flelh,‘ and 1 will give you an heart of fielh.’ O then,go to God, and plead it, faying, ‘ Have refpett to‘ the covenant.’ Are you defiltute of the Spirit;fenlual, not having the Spirit ? Do you find fuch awant of the Spirit, that you cannot walk in God’sway ! Well, there is an article of the covenanthere, verfe 27. ‘ I will put my Spirit within you,‘ and caufe you to walk in my ftatutes.’ O pleadfor this great hleffing, and fay, Lord, ‘ Have re-‘ ipeft to the covenant.’In a word, when you confider what kind of afinner you are, confider alfo what kind of a cove¬nant this is; it is enough to fay, that it is a cove¬nant of grace, of all forts of grace; for all forts offinners that are out of hell. Are you under dread¬ful guilt ? Here is a covenant of? pardoning grace,‘ I will blot out thy fin as a cloud, and thy tranf-‘ greflion as a thick cloud: return to me for 1 have* redeemed thee,’ Ifa. xliv. 22. O then, plead hemay ‘ have refpeft to the covenant.’ \re you un¬der fearful pollutions ? O here is a covenant of pu-ri50FAITH’S PLEA uponrifying grace, facing; ‘ There is a fountain opened)‘ to the houle of David and. the inhabitants of Je-‘ rolaiein, for fin and for uncleannefs,’ O then;plead he may have rtfpcft to the covenant.’ Areyou in darknefs and ignorance, having no know- «ledge of God r O here is a covenant of enlighten¬ing grace, laying, ‘ They fliali be ail taught of‘ God,’ Q then piead it, faying, Lord, ‘ Have re-‘ fpedl to the covenant.’ Are you under deadnefs, !and like dead tend dry bones? G here is a covenant (of quickening gtace, ikying, ‘ I am come to give '‘ lire, and to give it more abundantly. The hour‘ cotneth, when the dead (hall hear the voice of*. the Son of God, and they that heir fliajl live,’O then, p ead that he may ‘ have refpedi to thef‘ covenant.’ Are you in confufion, and know notwhat way to take ? O here is a covenant of dire£t-ing grace, laying, ‘ l will bring the blind by a way‘ they know not; I will lead them in paths thatj‘ they have not known; I will make darknefs light I‘ before them, and crooked things ftraight.’ Are !■you under lad plagues and foul dileafes, over-run rwith fores, from the crown of the head to the foie jof the foot ? O here is a covenant of healing grace,faying, ‘ The Sun of Righteoufnefs (hall arile with 1‘ healing in his wings. I am the Lord that hea!-‘ eth thee; l will heal your backflidings,’ O then,plead, laying, Lord, ‘ Have relpeft to the cove-‘ nant.’ Are you in extreme danger of hell anddamnation, becaufeof your lin and guilt ? O here 'is a covenant of delivering, grace, faying, ‘Deliver u-‘ his foul from going down to the pit, for I have b‘ found a ranlbm, O then plead it, and fay, Lord,* Have refpeft to the covenant.’ Are you in bon- idage unto fin, Satan, and the world, a captive un¬to luffs, and fhut up in unbelief, as in a piilbn ? O t;here21GOD’S COVENANT.icre is a covenant of liberating grace! ‘ proclaitn-‘ ing liberty to the captives, and the opening of‘ the prifon to them that are bound.’ Are youa flupid foul that cannot move toward God, norftir heaven-ward, by reaftm of a backward willlike a brazen gate, that refills all the force of mov¬ing means? Well, but, O! here is a covenant ofIdrawing grace, faying, ‘ When I am lifted up, I‘ will draw all men after me.’ As the power andJvirtuc of the load-flone draws iron, fo the virtue ofan exalted Chrifl draws the iron-bar of the will',j‘ Thy people fhal! be willing in the day of thyj‘ power,’ O then, plead it, faying, Lord, ‘ Have‘ refpeff to the covenant.’I What other concerns have you ?—Are you con¬cerned for your children, that they may be partak¬ers of covenant-blefiings, and faved of the Lord ?O here is a covenant of extenfive grace entailingbieifings on us and our offspring, faying, ‘ I will: be thy God, and the God of thy feed.’ O then,.Lord, ‘ Have refpeft to the covenant,’ Are youiiconcerned for the church, and the dangerous cir-cumilances (he is into by reafon of cruel enemies ?This feems to be the great concern of the Pfiilmifthere, as appears from the body of the pfalm, andthe words following the text: For * the dark pla-‘ ces of the earth are full of the habitations of cru-* elty.’ Thefe that live in darknefs of ignoranceland error, and in the works of darknefs, are full oficruelty againft the church and people of God> andrlthey are furrounded -with them, infomuch that theIchurch is like a ‘ lily among thorns,’ or a ‘ fheep‘ among wolves,’ what fhall become of it ? Why*ihere is a covenant of defence* and of defending.and prote&ing grace, faying, ‘ Upon all the glorybehalf of your children, faying,‘ there22FAITH’S PLEA upon* there {hall be a defence;’ therefore, even whs :enemies, ‘ break down the carved works with ax r* and hammers,’ verfe 7. When they are fayin* Let usdefboy them together,’ ver 8. Yea, wheit fhall come to this, that a bloody (word, that *1raging abroad, (hall come over to us, and that freign or domeftic enemies, or both, (hall devour at:deftroy, and may be ‘ burn up all the (ynagogm k* of God in the land,’ as it is, ver. 8. And when v(hall ‘ not fee our figns, and there is no more an :•* prophet, nor any among us that know the tin* how long,’ verle 9. In all fuch cafes, what cour t(hall we take but that of the Pfalmift here ? l ore 10* Have rcfpedl to the covenant.’Are you concerned about inward enemies, fpit situal enemies, and molefted with the powers of dar! hnefs? Is your heart full of the habitations of cruety, and fearfully inhabited with cruel devils, crui t;lulls, cruel corruptions that mailer and conque r:and prevail againlt you, (o as you may ly many C;time wounded and dead at the enemy’s feet? <here is a covenant of lin-conquering grace, not 01ly a covenant of mercy to your foul, bur of ver sgeance to your lulls, faying, ‘ The day of vengeanc :* is in mine heart, the year of my redeemer is comeI(a. Ixiii. 4. O then cry down the promifed vet igeance on all your cruel (bul-enemies, laying, Lore* Have refpeH: to the covenant.’Are you concerned about your foul-poverty anindigency, not only oppreffed with enemies without, and within, but allb opprelfed with wants annecelfities, being abfolutely poor and needy, defttute of all good ? O here is a covenant of Ibul (upplying grace, and of all needful provifton, faying 1‘ When the poor and needy feek water, and ther* is none, and their tongue faileth for third, I th‘ LorGOD’S COVENANT. 23Lord will hear them, I the God of Jacob willnot forfake them ; I will pour water upon himthat is thirfly, and floods upon the dry ground.’then, plead the covenant as the Pfalmift here inhe following vei le, ‘ O let not the opprefled returnafliamed, let the poor and needy praife thy name.Have refpeft unto the covenant.’In a word, Let your cafe be the worfl: out ofnell, this covenant contains all filvation as a cove¬nant of grace, of all grace, of all fort of cures forall fort of cafes ; and if you can get yourfelf wraptwithin the bond of this covenant, by believing andjpleading it; then you draw God upon your inte-jreft, fo that your concern is his concern, your in-ttereft is his interert, your caufe is his caufe, as thePfalmifl: fhews here, verfe 22. ‘ Arife, O God,* plead thine own caufe.’ Stand ever upon hishonour, and he will do his own w ork in his owntitne. If ever you got grace to draw a bill uponGod as a covenanting, promifing God in Chiifl,iland have any bills lying tabled befote the throne,(and are fometimes unable to plead and puifue theibill, with, Lord, ‘ Have refpeft unto the covenant,’you have the ftrongefl encouragement to wait onhim, and expert his anfwering the bill in due time ; •..for he will rather work marvelloufly, and createitiew worlds, rather turn all things to nothing thanquit his concern in, or give up with his ‘ tefpctt‘ unto the covenant.’Are you concerned for the advancement of the■kingdom of Chrift in the earth, as you ought to>|be ? Here is a covenant of grace to the Jews, andgrace to the Gentiles; grace to the Heathen nations,laying, ‘ I will give thee the Heathen for thine in-1 heritance, and the uttermoft parts of the earth* for thy pofleffion.’ Are you concerned about ge¬nerations24 FAITH’S PLEA, &c.rations to come, about the riling generation, whethere is little hope of the prefer]t?*jO! here iscovenant of grace to fucceeding generations till thend of the world, * I will make thy name to be n* membered in all generations ; therefore (hall th‘ people praile thee for ever and ever.’Are you-eoncerned about your latter end, andhow it (hall fare with you when in the fwellingsJordan; how you will fight the battle? O heris a covenant of death-conquering grace, layiri'gj* Death (hall be fwallowed up in viftory t O death* I will be thy plague ; O grave, I will be thy de-4 ilrufrion.* Are you concerned about a gofpel-ininifiry, and thoughtful whether it (hall be conti*nued ? There is many a word in this covenant a-bout it; but efpectally, thaj Chrift is exalted,, tqmaintain and fupport a gofpel difpenlatipn to theend of the world, Mat, xxviii. 20. 'Whatlbeyfifpot of the earth he doth chufa or refule, he having* afcended on high, hath received gifts for men,* yea, for the rebellious alfo, that the Lord God‘ might dwell among them/ Pfalm Ixviii. t8.FINIS.