I &SERMONPREACHED!,On a Preparation-day, before the Sacramentof the Lord’s-Supper, at Bruncifland, upon2 Sam. vii. 20. Do as thou haft /aid.By the late Reverend■Mr. RALPH ERSKINE,Minifter of the Gofpel, at Dunfermline.THE FIFTH EDITION.GLASGOW:‘rinted by JOHN BRYCE, and Sold at hisShop in the Sai.t-Market. 1770.TFaith's Tie a upon God's Word.2 Sam. vii. 25*--‘-Do as thou haji Jaid.DAVID wasa ftrong believer ; and it were our greatadvantage to follow him in h'S faith : and in theword that 1 fix upon to fpeak a littleto, there aretwo ways wherein his taith works, i. By believing the di¬vine word, Thouhaji fo and fo. 2. By pleading theaccomp ifhtnent thereof, Do as thou hajtfaid.I. Faith w'orks by believing his word, Thou hafi faid.The objeft and ground of faith is the divine laying ; andfaith refts upon a Thus faith the Lord,- it is not upon ssThusfaith a Man, or Thus faith a hlititSTEK-, nay, nor thusfaith an Angel. Divine faith can Hand only upon a divineteftimony: Thus faith theLoRT), thou haffaid. If you havefaith, then, you have received the word wort/0^vian^ but, as it is indeed,the ’word of Cod which eflktftuallyworks in you that believe. Faith adfs by taking God’s word.Thou haJl faid; thou haft promifed\ thou haft fpokeninthyhtltnefs.2. Faith afts by pleading the accomplijhmetit of the pro¬mile, Do as thou haft faid. God is not a fpeaker only, buta doer : he is not a promifer only, but a performer ; andfaith looks to a promifing God, that he may be a pet form¬ing God ; and fo puts him to h s word.Observ. That it is the bufinefs of true faith, to takeCod’s word, and to put him to it.In the illuftration ol this dofbinal propofition, we wouldincline, through divine aid, to eflay briefly the followingthing*.1. To (hew, That it is the of faith to/trie God’sword.II. That it is the bufinefs of faith to put him to his wardIII. How faith takes the word of God.IV. How. —'V.,jrt ofiIV. How it pltadi the accomplifkment of the promf/e.V Whence is this the bufinefs of faith to take God at hi*word, and to put him to his word.VI. Make application of the whole.I, We are firft to fliew, That it is the bufinefs of faith toTake Cod’s "jiord, or to take him at his word : this is plain,becaufe the word is the immediate objeft of faith. We haveno other gkfs wherein to fee God favingly? hut his word,particularly his word of grace and promife ; “ Siy not who(hall afcend to heaven, that is, to bring Chrilt down fromabove ; or who (hall defcend into the deep, that is, to bringup Chrift again from the dead The word is nigh thee, evenin thy mouth and in thy heart: fo then, faith comes by hear.»np, and hearing by the word of God, ” Rom. x- 6. 7, 8,Faith is & relative word, it relates to the faithtulnefs of •the fpeaker j believing relates to a word to be believed.That it is the bufinefs of faith to truft in the word of Godis evident from the whole fcripture. How many times Pfa!.cxix. doth the pfalmift (peak of trufiing in his word, andhoping in his word and rejoicing in his word, and fo takinghim at his word ?II. We come in the next place, to (hew, That it isthebulLnefs of faith to put him to his word, or to plead the accom,plifhment of his word, that he would do as he had faid; thisis evident from Pfal. cxix. 49. Remember the word untothy fervant,upon which thou hafi caufedme to hope. And howmany times doth he plead with God, to do to him accordingto his word ? Quicken sue according to thy 'word, ver. 35. a-gain and again we have this repeated, as ver. 107, 154.Srengthcn me according to thy word, ver. 28. Save me,according to thy word, ver. 41. Be merciful to me, accord¬ing to thy word, ver. 58. Deal well with thy fervant, ac¬cording to thy word, ver. 65. Let thy rfierciful kindnefs beniy comfort, according to thy word, ver. }6, Give me un-derftanding, according to thy word, ver. 169, Deliver me,according to thy word,” ver. 170.-—All comes to this, Doas thou hafi faid.ill. We proceed now, to (hew hns, or in what mannerfaith takes the word nf God.1. It takes it by an intelligent apprehenfion of\t in the ,underjlanding. The man is taught of God, and gets his eyes *opened, to fee the faithful Jaying, and worthy of all accep-A 2 tation;s it to be the word of God, and a word fpoke11n feafoh to his weary foul. They will never take the wor^by faith that do not underftand it ; Philip faidunto the Eu*nuch, Underjiandefl thou what thou readefi P So we may fay»nnderftandefl: thou what thou heareft ? Are your eyes o-pened to fee the wonders of his law, or doiftrine ; to fee theglory of Chrift held out to you in the word ?2. Faith takes the word of God by a particular applicationof it, with the heart', infomuchthat it is a cordial apprehen-fion, ora cordial tlTetu that is given to the word ; with theheart man believeth unto righteoufnefs. Saving light goes tothe heart. Many have only their heads enlightned, theirjudg*ments informed, but not their hearts engaged, nor their af-fe<flions captivated. Faith is a cordial applying the word, andthat particularly to the man’s owa benefit, whether we callit afTiirance or not, it comes to the fame thing : as when inconvittion she threatning is applied, the man trembles underthe fear of hell and wrath,becaufe he applies the law threat*jning to himfelf, faying, I’m the man to whom this threatningis fpoken : fo, in the day of converfton or believing, the pro-mift , is applied, the man is relieved with the view of thegrace and mercy of God in Chrift, becaufe he applies thegotpel-promife to himfelf, faying, ” I am the man to whom** this promife is fpoken, and I receive and reft upon Chriftft for falvation, as he is promifed or offeied to me in this“ gofpel To me is this word tf falvation.” And if the mandid not take it to himfelf,there would be no believing at all.But then,IV. The fourth thing propofed, was, to Ihew faithplead the accompiijhment of the promife. 4.I It pleads up >n the mercy that made the promife thatit is everlafting mercy, unchangeable mercy ; the Lord, theLord God merciful and gracious-2. It phads upon the truth that is to make out the pro-ftl'n'e ; it is called. The truth in Jacob, and the mercy to A-braham, M'cah. vii. 20. th't his name is faithful and true.3. It pleads upon the power of the promifer, being fullyperfuadedy that he that hath promifed is able to perform ;th .t tie hath not out promifed his own promife, or faidwhat he cannot do.4 It pleads upon the blood of tie covenant that feals allthe I'romilcs thereof; hence they arc all yeaand amen mIm his name, that God, for the love be bears to Clinlt, woukI^^^Ido as he hath [aid.6. It pleads upon the ittichangeablenej s of God and of hisi word; that his word endureth for ever, and that he i; God,land changes not,therefore the fons of Jacob are tiot con fumed.[ 7. In a word, it pleads upon his Heb vi.17. ‘Godwilling more abundantly to fhew unto the heirs of promifeI the immutability of his counfel,hath confirmed it by an oathI that by two immutable things, in which it was impoffibi'I for God to lie, we might have ftrong confolation, who haveI fled for refuge, to lay bold upon the hope let before u--.i, 8. And lafHy, it pleads upon his /F/r-f w//Me?* ^ :\ for thy great name ?V. The fifth thing propofed, was to fhew whenc s thisthe bufinefis offaith to take God at his word, and topu: him, to hi word. Why bectufe.It I. It is theend and defign of God, in giving hisword; ‘thefethings are written, ” and fpoken, “ that we may believe in i1: the Son of God, and that believing, we might have life inhisname, ” John xx. 31. the gofpel is preached in vain it mendo not take God, at his word, and then hang upon k.2 Becaufe thus wtglorify God; and the more we red uponI the divine word, the more we glorify him; Abraham wasI ft rang in faith giving glory to Cod. We give him thehonour| of his truth, and other perfections this way.3. Becaufe thus wc engage the honour of God upon our: fide, when we put him to his word ; his honour is engagedhe cannot deny kinfelf. “ '4. Becaufe faith hath no other way of living, hut upontheword of God ; “ Man liveth not by bread ale ne, but by eve¬ry word that proceeded) out of the mouth of God. ThvJj word was found of me and I did eat it. This is my comfortI in my affliction, thy word hath quickned me.”VI The /aft thing propofed was'the application of thefub-I jefl, which indeed, was the principle th ng intended. Herei- is a fit exercife before the folemn commm.ion-work.to go taGod and fay, 0 do as thou hajfiaid. Confirier what he hathJ laid, and take him at his word, and put him to it, that 1would do to you accordingly. Whatever your cafe be (brelythere Is fome ord relative to it. *Some may be thinking, Alas ! God hath faid nothing tome, that I may put him to his word. Why, man, if the gof¬pel, that is in the Bible, be preached to you, and if there beany/- " -- —- - 'jd*any word of grace therein fuitabie to your cafe, then putnot away the word from you, but take it, and plead uponit, that God would Jo as ho hath [aid, If you can fee anyword of prorrrfe fuited to your cafe, and to your need, thenput to your hand by faith, and lay hold upon his word.O!) ! fay you, is there any word from God about my cafe,who am a poor needy creature like to ftarve for want of a (pi-ritual meal, and a hearty draught of the living waters thatgo out from Jerusalem. What hath God faid, or hath he(aid any thing, concerning me. Yea, he hath faid, Ifa. xli.17, t8. “ When the poor and needy feek water, and thereis none, and their tongue faileth for third; I, the Lord, willhear them: l, the God of Ifrael, will not forfake them. Iwillopen rivers in dry place-, and fountains in the midd of the val-lies. I will make the wildernefs a pool of water, and the dryland fprings of water. ”—Hith he faid fo ? Then take him jat his word, put him to it, faying, Lord, Do asthouhafl faid. ,Oh! but is there any word from God for me, whohave bedn |long waiting about ordinances, and never yetfecn his glory,\I would defire to fee it ? What bath he faid concerning me? jwhy, he hath faid, that he waits that he may be gracious ; Ithat he is a God of judgment, and bleffed are all they thatwait for him, Ifa. xxx. 18. He hath faid, “ The vifion is foran appointed time, but at the end it will fpeak, and not lie:though it tarry, wait for it; becaufe it will furely come, andnot tarry,” Hib. i. 3.-—Hath he faid fo ? Then take himat his word, and put him to it, faying, Do as thou hafl faid.But is there any word from God concerning my cafe, thatfind my confcsence challenging me for prodigious guilt; therewas never fuch a gudty perfon on the face of the earth? Areyou groaning under guilt ? Here what he fays, Heb. viit. 12.“I will be merciful to your unrighteoufnefs, and your fmsandiniquities will I remember no more. ifa. xliit. 2J. I, even I,am he that blotteth out thy tranfgreffions for mine own;fake |and will notremember thy fins. O then ! take hold of hisword, wherein he proclaims indemnity, and put him to it,faying, Lord, Do as thou haft faid.But, fays another, is there any word, from God concerningme, that am compafied about with ftrong corruptions, andconquering lujls, that fin gets the mattery over me? Wouldyou be delivered? Here what he fays. Mic. vii. 19. He willfubdee our iniquities, and will call fins into the depths ofthefor ye are not under the law, but under grace ifa. Ixiii. 4.The day of vengeance is in mine heart,and the year of my re¬deemed is come.”*--Hath he promifed to take vengence onyour 1 lifts ? Then take him at his word, faying, 0 do as thouI hafl faid.But is there any word faid me to that am fi:ch a fiithy man.flcr fuch’a/’o//»ftf^W?d/«re in heart and way,that am ftink-1 ing, as it were, in the grave of fin r He hath laid. Ezek. xxxvi.'f 26. “ From all your filthinef, and from all your idols will I; cleanfeyou. Zech.xiii. I. There is a fountain opened to thei1 <£ houfe of David, and the inhabitants of Jerufalem, for fin| and for uncleannefi. --Is there a promife of e'eanfing ? Thentake him at his word, and cry, Lord, Do as thou haft [aid.' But is there any word to me a backflidcrogrievous rcvol'ter, that many times after vows have tnade enquiry', mypro-I: mifes and refolutions have bfen but paper walls before the1 fire of temptation ? Are you afflafled with this, and wouldhave relief? Behold he fays, Jer hi. 22 “ Retu n ye back-l; Aiding children, and I will heal yourbackflidings Hof. xiv 4.j I will he I your backflidings,and love you freely I will heas the dew to Ifrael.” Hath he faid fo ? Then let your heartfay, Lord, Do as thou haft faid.But what doth God fay to me, that have no ftren^th of anyduty ox difficulty, that am weak like water? Would you haverelief inthis cafe? God fays, 2 Cor xii- 9. “My grace fhal! hefufficient forjtbee,and myftrength (hall be made perfedl in thyweaknefs. Ifa. $1. 29 He giveth power to the faint, and tothem that hafay fo ? Thenhaft faid.j But is there anyword concerning me, that am brought to■ I a great difficulty. and know not what to do, or what handto turn me to ; I am ftraitned what courfe to t. ke : dothGod fay any thing to me ? Yea. he doth ; Ifa. xlii. 16. “Iwill bring the blind by a way they know not; I will lesdthem in paths that they have not known. I will ni ike d-rk.J nefii light before them, and crooked things'ftraight, Ifa. xxxj 22. Thine ear.* (hail hear a voice behind thee, faying. This isthe way walk ye in it. I wiil^uide thee by my counfcl.” --| Doth he fry fo ? Then put him to his word, faying Do asi thou haft faid.Butve no .1 ignt he increaieth Itrength, ’ Doth heput him to his word, faying, Lord, Do as thtu*""Hij't what fays God to i poor f>nl tliat is TiarraJJ'e/i withthe temptations of the Devil, and ready to he deflroyed withthe fiery darts of the wicked one ? God fays, “ I will hruifethe liead of the ierpent. Rom. xvi. 10. The God of peacefhal! bruife Sit’n under your feet Ihortly. For this caufe wasthe Son of God m inifelfed, to deftroy the works of the De¬vil.” Hath he begun to deftroy him ? and hath he faid, Thoufbalt bruife him under thy feet ? Then put him to his word,faying, Lord, Do as thou baft [aid.Ala? ! But what lays God to a poor, deftitute creature,that hath nothing; no good, noftrength? He fays,Philip, iv.19. “ My God fhali fupply all your wants, according to hisriches in glory, by Chrift J:fus. Plal. ix. 18. The needyftnll not always be forgotten ; the expedition of the poorfhall not perifh forever. There is bread enough, and to {parein your father houle. ” Hath he fiid fo ? O then ! put himto his word, faying, L.ord, Do as thou haft faid.But what ftys G'd to me, that am longing, longing, ear- vneftly longing for Ibme tafte of his goodnefs, fome view ofhis beauty; Some communion and fellowfhip with him? WhyGod fays to you, that he “ will fati-fy the longing foul and(ill the hungry with good things. Matth. v. 6. Blcffed arethey that hunger and third after righteoufncfs : for they 1{hall be filled.” Hath he faid fo ? Then let your heart fay,Lord, Do as thou haft faid.Oh I but is there any word for one that hath a quite o-ther cafe to tell you of, that hath no longing defire, no hun¬ger, no thirft, that hath as much need as any longing foulhere ; but I have no fpiritual longing, not fo much as a de¬fire, but, like the parching earth, the dry ground, that canhave no adtive thirft, but hath many a wide cleft? God faysifa. xliv. 3, 4. “ I will pour water on him that is thirfty, Jand floods upon the dry ground ? even my fpirit upon thyfeed, and my blefling upon thine offspring They ftiall growup as among the grais, as willows by the water courfes. ” ^Have you no other thirft, but like that of the dry ground ?and he hath promiied a flood? Then, O put him to his word,faying. Lord, Do as thou haft faid.Oh! but is there any word for me, that am like thtbarrenground and unfruitful, that bears nothing but briars andthorns, and I find this ground s rejztted. is nigh unto cur-finS* mhofe end is ta he burned\? Is this your fear and concern- f i p. r'far that v-'ord, ]Ia. !v.fhall come up the fir tree ; and inftead of the briar, the myr¬tle tree ; and it (hall be to the Lord for a name, and for aneverlafting fign that (hall not be cut off. Hof. xiv. 8. I amlike a green fir tree, from me is thy fruit found.” Hath hefaid fo ? Then put him to his word, faying, L^rd Do as thouhaft faid.Alas ! But is there any word for me, that have been a foolj a mocker a /corner, that have laughed at ail religion andgodlinefs; is there any merciful words that I may take holdof? Ye, God fays. Prov. i. 22.“ Y'e fcornen that delightin fcorning, and fools that hate knowledge, turn ye at myreproof ; behold, I will pour out my Spirit unto you, 1 willmake known my word unto you.” Doth he fay fo ? Thenput h;m to his word, faying, 0 do as thou haft faid.But what fays God to one that hath a plagued heart, ahard heart, a bafe heart, full of all manner of evils, and allI, the plagues ofhell ? Why, God fays, Ezek. xxxvi 26. “Anew heart will I give you, and a new Spirit will I put with¬in you ; and I will take away the ftony heart out of yourflefii, and will give you an heart of fle(h. And I will put mySpirit within you, and caufe you to walk in my flatutes.”And whatever be the plague, he hath faid, I atn the Lord-,that healeth thee.-- Hath he faid fo ? Then O put him to hisword, laying, Lord, Do as thou haft faid.Ah ! But doth God fay any thing to a ftupid wretch, thatonly hear you, but is no more affedted than the (tones of thewall, and that is quite dead, and can no more ftir than arock, and hath no more life than a dead corpfe ? God fays,and O that he would iay it with power, “ Come from thefour winds, O breath, and breath upon thefeflain , that theymay live. Ezek. xxxvii. 12. I will open your graves, andcaufe you to come out of your graves, and ye (hall knowthat I am the Lord, when I have opened your graves, and(hall put my Spirit in you, and ye (hall live.’’ Hath he laidfo ? Then O put him to his word, faying, Lord, Do asthou haft faid.But, Ob ! is there any word that God (ays concerning me,that have forfeited God’s favour, by heaping up great andtnfuperable mountains betwixt him and me, that X fear bewill never come over ? Why, he fays, Zech. iv. 7. “ Whoart thou, O great mountain ? Before our Zerubbabel, thou(haltbecome a plain. He (hall bring forth the head (toneB withw ith Ihouting, crying, grace, grace unto can make“ tV>e mountains fltip like rams, and the little hills likelambs.” - Hath he faid lo ? Then, O put him to his word,and f^y Lord, Do as thou haft faid.But is there any word for one that is filled with fear ofheavy judgments coming upon the land, and upon an apo~fate church ? Yes, he fays, Ifa. xxxii. 2, “ A man (hall bea hiding place from the llorm, and a covert from the tem¬ped : as river. of water in a dry place, as the fhadow of agreat rock in a weary la d.” When you fee matters runninginto confufton, church members betraying theprivileges ofthechurch, and the church of Scotland deftroying herfelf withher own hand, not only “ boars out of the fortft waitingher,and wild beads of the field devouringher,’’but enemies inthe bofom of the church making themfelves “ famous, forlifting up axes and hammers to break tiown the carvedwork”of her dodtrine, worlhip, difcipline, and government, remem¬ber the Lord hath faid that when he “ builds up Zion, hewillappear in his glory; and that upon all the glory there (hali bea defence ; that at evening time it (lull be light that thedarkeft part of the night may ufher in tire morning-ftar ofa reformation in fpiteof hell : for I would incline gladly tohope God will not leave Scotland, though we have lef him.He took infeltment by lolemn national covenant fix times#;and he hath had martyrs for his kingly office, that have af-ferted his royal prerogatives at the expence of their blood:therefore, let us apply that word. He will arife and havemercy on Zion.- Hrth he laid fo ? Then. O take him at hisword, laying, Lord, Do as thou haft faid.But is there any woi d for a poor creature that is in “bon¬dage thro’ fear of death? If I have run with the footmen,andthey have wearied me; then how can I contend with horles?And ifinthelandof peace.wherein 1 trutled,they wearied me,then what will I do in the fweiling of Jordan ?’’ 1 trembletomeet with the king of terrors ? Why, he hath faid, Hof, xiii.14.“ 1 will r-mfom them from the power of the grave; I willred-em them fiom death: O death ! I will be thy plague; Ogtive! I willbe thy deftru&ion. Death ffialt be (wallowed upin vidtory.” Plead then, that he would do as be hath faid.But I want afturance of all thefe things, may one lay, well,what mean you by that, man, woman, that you want af-furance? I fuppofe many do not underlfand themfelves, whenthey ,* This was done at different Periods betwixt the year 1 ydo and tCjc.they fay they want alTurance ; far, what better affurancewould you have than the word ? Jfyou have his word, youneed no better alTurance. If a man of credit, whom youcan depend upon it, and fay you are aflured of it ; for youhave his word. There is an afTuranee offsnfe, that is theaffurance of the work, when you have got the thing that ispromifed ; this is not properly aflurance, it is enjoyment :but the afl~urance of faith is the afliirance of a word. And thothe affUrance of fenfe be fweetefl, yet the alfurapce of faithis the furefi aflurance : for, what you get in hand from Godyou may foon lofe the benefit and comfort of it; but whatyou have upon band in the promife, is flill to the fbre. Ifyou take God’s promife, you have the bed adurance in theworld ; but if you fay you want faith, you cannot take Hisword, or truft bis word, then this is plain dealing : I fearthis indeed be the cafe of the mod; then you want aflurancaindeed, becaufe you want faith, and cannot take his word,nor give him fo much credit. But if any be faying, that isindeed ray cafe ; I cannot believe his word: doth God faynothing to me ? Is there any word fuited 'o my cafe ? Yes.there are promifes o/faith as we!! os to it: Zeph. Hi. 12. “ £will leave in the midd of them a poor and affl'ided people,and they diall trud in the n me of the Lord. In him lhailthe Gentiles trud.”,--Hath the author of faith fo promifed ?Then, O take him at his word ; cry for faith, laying, Lord,Do as thou ha/1 faid.But may one fay I would defire not only to have the word,but (he accov/plijhment of the word *, I wouldjaot only have . jthe promife, but the performances and there arefome promi¬fes, I have been looking to, fome ten or twenty years- oldpromifes,that I thinkl got the faith of, but, alas! theaccom-plidiment is not yet come ; there are fome prayers and peti¬tions I have had long tabled upon the ground ot tbepromife;what doth God fay to one that bath never got thefe prorni-fes accomphfhed, nor thefe prayers anfweied ? Why, man, bethankful, if you have got grace to believe the promife; for fomuch faithas you have totakeGod’s word, fo much affuranceyou have that the word will be made out. If you be waitingupon a promiling God, give him his time, and behold thewomb of the promife will fhortly open and htiug forth; forit will not travel beyond its time ; “ B elied is Ihe that be¬lieved ; for there (hall be a periormance of ihofc things thatwere told her from the Lord,” Luke i. 45. And your fitsand2 B (tansftarts of unbelief, O believer, fiiall not Viinder the perfcrnrancc of the promife you have once believed favingly ; “ Ifwe not, he abideth faithful ; he cannot deny himfelf,”2 Tim. ii. 13. Will he deny his word ? Will he deny ivsoath ? No, no ; he will have refpett to his covenant, be-caufe he hath a refpeft to himfelf.But what fays God of one that is afflicled and mourningfor the dejolation of Zion, and particularly for the fins anddefedtions of the day we live in ? I will tell you what hefays. They that fow in tears jhall reap in joy : And thoughyou have your mourning time for Zion, you {hall alfo haveyour rejoicing times ; “ Rejoice ye with Jerufalem, andbe glad with her, all ye that love her : rejoice for joy withher, all ye that mourn for her,” Ifa. Ixvi. 10. He fays,that he will “ fet a mark upon the foreheads of themthat figh and cry for all the abominations that are done inthe midft thereof, Ezek. ix. 4.“ Blelfed are they that mourn,for they fhall be comforted,” Matth. v. 4.-•-'Why, thenlook to him to do as he hath faid, •But fays another. I’m one that has a family, and childrenthat the Lord hath given me, and it is my concern not onlythat I may be bleffed myfelf, but that my feed and offspringmaybe bleiTed : is there any word for mein this cate? Yea,what think you of that word, Ifa. xliv. 3- “ I will pourmy Spirit upon thy feed, and my bleffing npon thine off-fpring ? What think ye of that covenant made with Abra¬ham, which you are called to lay hold upon by followinghis faith ? Gen. xvii. 7. “ I will be thy God, and the Godof thy feed. You have not only the covenant of Abraham tolook to, but the fame entail of theiovenant to your pofte-rity to look to. Ifa. lix. 21. “ ^This is my covenant withthem, faith the Lord, my Spirit that is upon thee, and mywords that I have put in thy mouth, fhall not depart out ofthy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy feed, nor out of themouth of thy feeds feed, faith the Lord, from henceforthand for ever. He hath faid, that children are his heritagePfal. cxxvii. 3. ; and that his righteoufnefs is unto childrenschildren, ciii. 17.; The promije is unto you and to • ourchildren P Afts, ii. 39. O take him at his word, and cryLord, Do as thou haji faid.But what do you fay to one that finds defertedofCod, and that God anfwers neither by Urim nor I humjiim, “ I go forward, but he is not there ; backward, but Icannot perceive him: on the left hand, where he dothwo *but I cannot lee him, Job.^xxii. 8, 9. The comfort thatcould relieve my foul is far removed,” Lam. i. 16. Godfays, Ifa. liv. 7, S, 10. “ For afmall moment have I for-*faken thee, but with great mercies will I gather thee : in alittle wrath 1 hid my face from thee, for a moment; bstwith everlafting kindnefs will I have mercy on thee, faiththe Lord thy Redeemer. For the mountains lhall depart,and the hills be removed, but my kindnefs lhall not departIrom thee, neither (hall the covenant of my peace he remov¬ed, faith the Lord, that hath mercy on thee”-- Hath hefaidfo ? Then, O take him at hit word, faying, Lord, Do asthou haft [aid.But what doth God fay to one that is tofled with one waveof affiifiion upon the back of another, “ deep calling untodeep, at the noife of God’s water fpouts ; all bis wavesand billows are gone over me?” Pfal. xci. 7. Why, Godfays, Ifa. liv. 11, 12, 13, 74. “ Oh thou afflitfed, tolfedwith temped, and not comforted, behold, I will lay thyHones with fair colours, and lay thy foundations with fap-phires.- and I will make thy windows of agates, and thygates of carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleafant Hones ;and all thy children (hall be taught of the Lord, and greatlhall be the peace of thy children: in rigbteoufnefs lhalt thoube eHablilhed.” Yea, he fays, Pfal. xci. 15. “ He lhall callupon me and I will anfwer him; I will be with him in trou¬ble, I will deliver him, and honour him” Many fucb fweetwords of grace he fpeaks: O then, take his word and plead.Lord, Do as thou haji faid.But is there any word to one that is loft in the Tvildcrnefs,and knows not where he is, fo as to think it impo/hble thatminiHers can find him out ? 1 think I am loH in a thicket,andit is impolfible to find out my cafe, a namelefs cafe, why maybe that word concerns you, Ifa. Jxii. 1 r, “ Behold thy fai-vation cometh; and thou lhall be called, Sought out, notfor-faken? “ And Hofea. ii. 14. “I will allure her, and bringherinto the wildernefs, and there will I /peak comfortably to heror, as the word is in the margin, to her Heart. Ocomfortable when God fpeaks not only to the ear, but tothe heart. Well, hath he faid k ? O then, take his word andplead. Do as thou haft faid.But is thete any word to one that hath been incorrigibleunder correttingprovidences, and hath his corruptions irri¬tate by the crofs, and rebellion ratb'er increafed by rods in-Headftead of being reclaimed by word and rod? ?s there anvcifelike mine, or is there any word for me to lay hold upon ?Yes; what think you of that word, tfa. Ivii. 17, 18. “ Forthe iniquity of his covetonfuefs was I wroth, and fmote him:I hid me and was wroth, and he went on forwardly in theway or his heart.” Well, what follows; “ I have (een hisways ; and I will heal him: I will lead him alf), and reflorecomforts dntohim and to his mourners.” O aftonilhing won¬der of free grace! that it was not faid, I have feen his ways,and will Damn ^/rw,but I have feen his ways, and wHISavehim -Hath he fakl fo ? Then put in your petition. Lord,Do as thou hall faid.But is there any word to fuch as are under the power ofunbelief and impsnitency ? The gofpel is preached to believ¬ers and penitents : O God forbid but it was not preached tofinners, that are both unbelieving and impenitent, in orderto bring them to faith and repentance : why what fays God£0 fuch ? He fays, that they noght to lay hold and pleadupon, Pfal. ck. 3. “ Thy people liiall be-willing in the dayof thy power. Ads. v. gr. Chrift is “ exalted at the righthand of God to be a prince and Saviour, to give repentanceto Ifrael, and forgivenefs of fins.” Plead then he may Doas he hath faid.But is it poffible that God is fpeaking to any that hathbeen a notorious ftnner ? Perhaps all thecoutry knows that Ihave been a fcandalous debauchee, a leud and wicked (inner,* Profane gracelefs wretch. O ! if any were charmed withthe joyful found of the gofpel grace to day, he fays, lia i. r8“ Come now let us reafon together, faith the Lord.-Jthoilghyour fins be as fcariet, they finll be as white as fnow ; tho’they be red like crimfon, they (hall be as wool.” Thoughyou have finned to the uttermoft, I am able to fave to theuttermoft, is yont wonderful, aS a (inner? Behold hisname is Wonderful, as a Saviour, - O hath he faid fo? Well,go and plead his word, faying, Lord, Do as thou hafl faid.But befides my wickednefs, Izmgrdfly ignorant-, doth Godfav any thing to a poor brutilh, ignorant creature like me ?Would you be taught ? There is a word you may take hold ofJohn vi. “ It is written in the prophets, they (hall be alltaughtoof God.” And, who teaches like him ?-- Hath he faidfo? Then take him at his word faying, Do as thou hafl fdid.But is there any word from God for one that \\i\\\crucifiidfo t/iaoy convillions as I have done; yea, and viitualiy cruci¬fiedTecnh^o^t doJ arreik,Spirit ? Yea, we are called to preach the gofpel to every crea¬ture, and even to the crucifiersof Chrifi; “ Repentarce andremiffion of fin mull be preached in his name, among ail rati¬ons, begining at Jerufalem,” Luke xxiv. 47. Why beginningat Jerufalein, among the crucifiers of Chrifl;? Recaufe theyhave moli need of his blood to <wafh them ; Chrifi came tofavefinners ? Hath he fa.d fo ? Then put in your bill, Lord,Do as as thou haj} faid.But will you tell me, is there any word for one that cannotthink that it is as you are faying, that there is any mercifulnuord in God’s mouth, or any merciful thought in Grd’s hearttowards me ; it cannot enter into my thought; I cannot let itlight in my mind or heart ? Why, God fayr, Ifa. lv. S. 9 “Mythoughts ate not your thoughts, neither are your ways myways, faith the Lord : for as the heavens are higher than theearth,fo are my ways higher thanyour ways, antimy thoughtsthan your though'S.” You are not to meafure his thoughts byyours, no more than you can meafure theie wide heavens withyour arms * but God knows his own thoughts, a .d what fayshe of them, Jrr, xx x. 11, ia, 13. “ I know the thoughts thatI think towards you, faith the Lord; thoughts of peace, andno: of evil, to give you an expe&ed end. Then (hail ye callupon me, and 1 will hearken unto you And ye fhall feekmeand find|me, when ye fhall fearch to rinse whh all ycur heart. ’--Hath he faid fo ? Then go and plead his word, favimzLord, Do as thou haf faid.In a word do you watot hh prefence ? He hath faid, “ Lo Iam with you a. way even unto the end of the word; I will ne¬ver leave thee nor forfake thee ? ” are you afraid of hell anddam ation. He hath faid, Deliver his fonifrom goim dooujito the pit, / have found out aranfotn. - O what encaura?"-m.ent is here to go and pray and plead, faying, Lord, Do asthou hall faid.O firs, fearch the fcr'ptures, and ftody the word of God,-confult and confider what he hath faid. let there be no mouldyBibles among you ,• let not the duft of your Bibles witr.efs a-gainft you, for eternal falvation depends upon your believingwhat he hath -aid: therefore ftudy the faith cf what he hathfaid. The Spirit is promifed, and the fcriptures are written towork this faith ; Chrift is exalted, and the throne of grace iserected to give this faith; and this faith comes by hearingwhathe hath faid : by hearing not what Plato hath Paid or Senecahath laid; whatthis or that man hath laid, btitwhar God hathfan in his word, in th sBible, which is a bock fo pre'aced "ndfo attefted as never any other book was : the Old Tefkmtntis prefaced by all the miracles wrought by Mofes; t|)e NewTeltament prefacedby all thcniirach.s wrought byChrift.Andas Mofes’s miracles were wrought before the Old Teftamentwaswnuen, lo Chritt’s >niracles werewrou^tithefotp thtN' wTeftament was written : never a book was lb atteiled as this,even by a cloud of witnefles, a cioud of miracles, a cloud ofmartyrs, who lealed with ti.eir blood thetruth contained i r, it.God, in the New Teftament, exafHy fuiiils what he hath faidin the Old yea, the preient ftate of ail the world is a vilibleperformingot leripture prophecies.-- -Are not the Jews atthisday afeat ter ed and defpifed people, as the feripture faid theyfhaald be ? Hath not God done as he ha'h faui Is not Anti-chritl, the long lived mar. of Jin. and the cruel man of blood,as the feripture told he (hould be. Thus it is done as lie hathfaid.-—Are not the’ pagan parts of the earth the dark placesand habitations of cruelty, as the feripture fays they fhouldbe ? Thus it is as he hath faid.---Do not the feven churchesofAlia ly defolate, asthey were threatned, unleis they repented?Tims it is as he hath- iaid.--- ls not Mahomet, the falfe pro¬phet, and his followers like the waters of the great river Eu¬phrates, to which they are compared in feripture And thusitisashe hath faid. - Does not the whole world ly in ’wkkednefsas the word of God (hews? And lb it is as he hath laid.-- (snot every faint as a brand plucked out of the burning as theferipture i'peaks ? And it is as he hath faid.---Are not Dsiftsand (coffers walking after their own lufts, and ridiculingthepromife of Chrijl's coming as the feripture fpeaks? And lo itis as he hath faid.-—Are not all the black marks of periloustimes in the lajl days upon us as the feripture fpeaks ? Andfo it is as he hath laid. --Are not the foolijh virgins as ma¬ny, yea, and more than fbe wife, and allJlumbering andfromgofpe1thers 'a favour of life to fome and A favour of death to o-1s not Chrift precious to lonif, and a ft one ofJlum-lin'/ and a r°ck of offence to others, as the fcnpiure ipeaks,andfo it 'sas he hath faid ?- Look about you, and lee it anythine that falls out be not an accomplilhment of the word :and, O bow Ihould you value this word! not a jot or title ot;t jhall fall to the ground. .Walk t0 this garden of the fenpture, and pluck up theflowers gofpel promifes and put them in your bolbm; nvebv faith upon the promifes, and be perfuaded, whateverHands in the way, that he will do as he hath faid. He willdofor what he hath laid he hath written, what he hath laidhe hath fealed, what he hath faidhe hath fworn, whaihehath faidhewillnever unfay; therefore,take hold of hiswordof grace, and hold him at his word in life and death, fayingDo as thou hajl faid.F 1 F1 S.m-esf.