HIS TOR YOF THECATHEDRAL.onHigh ChurchOFFrom the time cf its Foundation, in the^ear 1136, till the present day, beinga Period of 633 Years.ALSO,An Account of the Battle cf Glasgow,Fought in the year 1272, betwixt theEnglish General Percy, and the ValiantScots Hero, Sir William Wallace,and the Battles of Falkirk and JloSlht■ i ^ 11m,i ■. i i ■,Falkirk, Printed for the PookseUers,J825THEHISTORYOF THEHIGH CHURCH OF GLASGOWEdifice, the most coirplete piece ofA Oocr.ic arc.ifttctare in the king Jem wasfonTified in the vear 1120, by John Achaias,tV.,h>-p of'-Giasge-*- during the reieii of David Kzndin whose presence, it was consecrated ini+'c year 1130. In the t>me of Joceline «h«.ceutmusd to carry on the builoh.g, it app.v. *: > hav- been dedicated as we are informed1 oru a« inseviutioa upon a.stone, iainied.^ny‘bovc the door ol the Choir,e u,»ui — —• •riuiuyh at that time the building was not farin the year 1 ty?,‘bIt W,:. a work of such magnitude, that theK c-dth of the .See of Glasgow was unable toiCc'OP'nlisii'it, ead therefore they hnd .recourse~ contribution througl’.out bcotlanu,. ihch was accordingly levied and appi.ed to. , vi,is we lettrn Irem too -.bth, n.s liul Vl'" ’ Pl ^;ncal Councils of the Churcht anon ot I'm r-i un a Q , , ;,f Scotland, held at reMh m 12 k, -df the tnliowing tenor : — • IV. ore ova. weiticily onset tht.t the business of ti e bund.ng’ Church of Glasgow- be, ur.cn a. LctCs?, c3days and festivles, faitlifjUy and dilegentlyexplained in all Churches, after saving <jf thjMale, fro n the begining of Lent to the Stiiday after Esther; and that the Induigenco*granted to those assisting at the badding,which we have ordered to be written in evrryChurch may be distinctly explained in thevulgar language to be parishioners; and thattheir alms the elf ct of persons< dying intri-tated and pious legacies may be faithfullycollected, according to usage hitherto ap¬proved and delivered to the Deacons of place*in the nearest Chapter without any deductionand that 'during tire said space of time nnSermon for any of her business, be admittedin the parochial Churches.”.Alllio' the name of the Architect by whanthe.Church was designed does not new appearfrom any inscription about the building, yet,from one upon the abbey Church of Melrosjo. 114-6 We are informed with regard to thisj articular, m the following uncouth rhyme,John Mur do sum lime cal! it rods /,And born in Paryssc ceiiainli/*And had in keeping all mason u$r&,O Sawcluary the IIye KirkOf (Hasanou) 'felrns and Pusing,Of KiddUdayl and of Galway.Pray to God and Virgin Mary,And sweet .St. John keep thisholy Kifk fp&c skaiih.. 4The Cathedral stands at the upper or northend cf the High Street upon the summit ofa ridge which declines to the Moiendinar orGallowgate Burn. Its form like most othercdific*= of the kind erected during the reignof superstition in this country, is that cfa Cross whose greatest length lies East andWest, and r < r.sequently the transverse partsNorth and South. From the middle of thebuilding springs the great Tower, which forrt least HO feet above the roof, is cf a squareform, and terminal * in a battlement andballustrade. Within this rises an m[angularSquire to a great height, that is again orna¬mented by two smaller bnllus*r;:des at equaldistances from each other and the top of theSquire. The Octagon betwixt these is beauti¬fied with several Gothic windows and foursmall pyramidal Spires which rise from withinthe first battlement at the hot’on of theOctagon. Upon the West end of the Cathedrai rises another square Toner, til! it is upona level with the battlement of the great Steeplehere it terminate.? in a pvramida leaden roof, j.adorned with n fane. In this Steeple is placedthe Clock and a very large Bell no less than12 feet i inch in circumference which actsas the corfew to the inhabitants at the hourof ten each night; and from its grave anddeeply sonorous note, is excellar.tly adaptedto the purpose.In the Winter of 1789, this Beil havingbeen accidently cracken by some personswho had got admiseion to the Steeple it was$taken 5own and sent to London, where inthe following, year it was resounded by oreMears. On the outside in the followingInscription:In the year of Grace,1.594..MARCUS KNOX,A Merchant in GlasgowZealous for the Interest of the reformedReligion,Caused me to be fabricated in Holland,For the use ef his fellow Co:ztns of Giargow,And placed me with SolemnityIn the Tower of their Cathedral,My FunctionWas announced by the impress on my bosom' Come, that ye may learn holy doctrine.AndI was taught to procla'm the hours ofunheeded time.195 years had I sounded these awful warnings,(When I was brokenBy the hands of inconsiderate & unskilful men.In the ycZiT 1790I was cast into the furnace,Resounded at London,And returned to my |jcred vocation,Reader^Thou also shall know ^resurrection,May it be unto eternal life.'J'komas Mean, fecit, London, 1790.^r\:m 5.ast to vi •' (V.Huxh-;-.! is ex»Iciltil/j civiucti, < $i : !ii S. ;.c Ci'Vi J.crt-Hjentfe b\ butteifl:^» i (q ' I dcnu rsiolis, Lc-tTreeu v, Lich sre- j (u iLic widows ofM'vcrai difiereiit i .i.. f . 'ihis succession<4 viHidows is iniei5 io the twiddle- oftue buiiuiiig by Hit, u risvcuc section ofthe Cross as well ;.s J.y tv.o very largewindows on opposite t c of the Cathedral,< ach -io iect high and . et wide at the basev iii>are ciircct'y Uu!*r t c great tower,tn l. e centre ox toe ti urcli. Above t! isiiist i-trige ol winnov. a the wall terminatest«- a Latlh uient, vu.i.ur oidc'i 'springs the •tr.-wi.-sl u-oi, till it n-etia ti c second or inner' n)i, wiiicb rises from .thence tor a numbero' feet; and, in l:k.e nnhinef v»ith the four,or lower wall is u:*ide'ti into cf-inp»rtn!entei.e smaii square preyetioi.s intween each ofv hit h are1 piaoed inn run row Gothic win¬nows, eiicitiy ; beve each of ' thebe in theInst si< ;\ ; it then u: annates in the samer a.uui v iih the h-v.vr wait, taped v.ith alenjU, root.0*irr tit the deei'vitv of the ground uponv.inch f. \ Catliecmvi i; joaoed, a great (litter-< nee ( i i • p: i t ; prr. rs in favour of the Eastt;ide wi.ere the ground is lowa.r. insomuch,tf.rt alt hi ugh on t*>fc Vic-si 'of the Church,tire bottom of the tu t range of windows arc vv. it I: in a ft w fee't Cf* the rtound yet by beingi .rrieci hor^oftal whet, ti e sucetssion arrivesa; the other end. they «re >vry considerablyi f. voted, and btiwiii them and tire gtcunda lower rler of trasll v-.iJov s rx?ei'^the East of the Cathedral-to the trausrUwsectionj where they terminate: Ihesetight to what is called the Barony Church.From the South-west corner of theral, the Consistorial-Aouse project, acorueiaon each side with abutments similar to tuuea; between the windows in the ChurchIn -this house the Bishops Court w ere tori^-| ,er!y held for taking ccgi zince vl ecciessat:#*]--Cal disputes, w ithin a Certain district caJitd: Ccxmissariot.The orincipal entry into the CathedraJwas from the West betwixt the Consolortal-House and -the Tower which both projecta considerable way from tie gable of upChur !:. This gate, witlch is very largoond mogniSciuHt is now shut up ai d the <‘Gufn.on entries are by the south it-aumg directlyonto the Cathedral which is divided into Utetlutcr Church. Choir, Inner High and BaronyChurches.1 lie mo.-t Westerly At' these divisions inthe Outer-Church, fom.crly a part of tiieCkoT, ,.nd irom wilich it is now seperated bya stone pertition Here two rows of Gothiactrf am ns, of great height and riiicknets, ruairom West to East parallel to the walls fromv.iich they are distant several feet. Thesapulai-s are connected with each other by archwwmch spring hom the capitals, and at the tor*unue :n a common centre.£Upon these arches nrc built the great irtoertrails formerly mentioned which contract thebreadth of the building in the <>pper part asmuch as their supporters ere distant from thewuter wall. Between each pi/ler is. placed,through the whole range Gothic windows,which elluminate the area of the Church onthe ground floor. Another rier of smallerwindows placed along the upper wall, enlightenthe vacent space.In the Choir the grandeur of the architec¬ture rcanefests itself more strikingly than inthe division we have last left In this placethe same range of pillars and windows are■continued which ' were before described The four most Easterly of these columns, tsupport a great Tower or Steeple in tirecentre of the Church ; and, according to thfeweight they bear, are proportionally strong,each being 20 feet in circumferance. Betweenthe two, on each side, are the large oppositewindows, which appear, when viewed fromthe outside in the centre of lire Church  "The front window cr that towards the South, <is^divided longitudinally ; four pillars, orbars, which are crossed'in thte middle therebyforming twelve parallel windows. Over theseis a large circular one ten feet in diameter,with two smaller windows to fill up thevacuity which a circle inscribed in a Gothicarch necessarly occasions. The window tothe North is perfectly similar except that ithas five bars which run from top to bottom.,without Icing crossed. Between the great9pillars also from: the floor of the Choir a flightof steps on each side desend into the largeburying vault or Borony Church. And im-raedtately above, at the east end four or livesteps lead to the nave or main body ofthe Cathedral or Inner high Church.In this .place as in the Choir, two rangeof columns run parallel to the walls and sup¬port in like manner, though by a double tierof arches, the upper row of windows. Thepillars here are consequently not so ioftyas in the last mentioned place but are evi¬dently of finer workmanship, and have theircapita! richly adorned with flowers and fruit.From these capitals spring, the arches, which,together with those arising from the corre¬sponding columns on the walls, intersect eachother at the key stone, which is in every in¬stance finely carved.In this manner, alongst the Church, a gal¬lery on both sides is formed with an archedroof, through which the light strikes fromthe windows into the body of the Church Above this range of columns is another suc¬cession, which support the highest tier 6fwindows which enlighten the upper part ofthe Cathedral. From the top of the innerwalls, immediately above these windows, a tarched roof springs to a vast height, finelyornamented. On the East, or in the gable ofthe Church, is a great window' divided byparallel bars, in the form of columns; and onthe West is the situation of the Organ LoftReceding Aom the body of the Church onthe East and entering immediately below thegreat windows is the space formerly-occupiedi<v the Alter—the roof here is supported by|*ve pillars, over which was a terrace walk.On the North side of the Alter, is the Vestrytiie roof arched and supported by one pillart:! the centre of* the house: arched pillarsfrotr. every shire terminate in the grand pillar,which is iS'fcet high.In this Church upon the north is the Seat?p.point'd for his Majesty cfirectly oppositeto the. pulpit and projecting apput three feetf on: the inrun body of the lofi. Upon thefront of the seat is the roval arms, on one sider n.htle, and on the other a Rose, bothcrowned and cut in cedar. Pillars of theCorinthian Order arise from the level cf the1. nr an ’ support the Catfopy, ornamented witjtnmer'yShe Barony Church. vhi,.:I, wr* Aiced as a burying Vault, is situated Lnmedi*.te.ly under tlie raye or Irr r High Church,( j the Fui! of the Cress. The Pillars here,in like manm.r with those in the other divisi¬ons of the Cathedral run parallel to the wall;they arc exceedingly strong and messive, andfrom their politico anti the smallness of thewindows, which are r.o more than narrowepertures, the aiea is, rendered dark and11gloomy, w'nc’i combioM with the o'v.lsolemn air peculiar to toe Gothic ercfnteciore,cannot fail to cast a temporary damp uponthe most voiltale spirit.The principal cn*r • -- to this Church,we have already remarked, wete situatedbetwixt the great oid.irf in the Chom whi<'»sunnort the mi idle Jorrer: these are nowshut up and the pas.sp-es lie in tlie North ao lSouth walls. To the East of this place, an 1immediately below tee Alter, is ri-u t- lthe place of interment for the Heritors < fthe Barony Parish: and where is still sheenthe monurcert of P'f. Munen, or Kert*»erntns well as the Re® c,'dr i-,'herein the f ries aformerly kept their m-'v 'rr.ter.— A sVill meredismal gloom here pn vr. ls! the wni's amblack and bung round with shreds of Es.cw?-cheons. Those 'ha u cmblims of i uc.u ujr. ndeur, v.bile pn tv.‘'y side lie ^nkui.’spnd coffins, ?»•;':bees and worms The tdirer ▼-Church in C e Cathedrrd. being fou .d* rurv.damp and inconvenient, It was shut up sometime since and a hondsu ne Church erected inits stead, a little to [the Southwest of iu oldsituation. .'In the 'Torth C cr' of the Catbedral wasthe Chapter-house which had a ooti i -id¬eation with the Nave by a vaulted entryThe South Cross, immediately opposite; 1;. 'never been comnletsd. it is now useda burying place for the Clergy of the Ci' :and is reckoned c v:y 'fine pace of *<hi-12tectlire, n;il superior to any other part oftkebuildiaThe roof, which is arched,ii supported by a middle range «f pillars,running North and South having their capi-til) very highly ornamented with the figuresof fruit, flowers &c. Corresponding to theseare columns adjoining to the walls, which,as they rise spring into semi-arches and areeveiy where met at acute angels by theiropposites, ornamented with carvings at thecrossing and closing of the lines,—The out¬side, like the main body of the Cathedral,is also adorned with abutments and windows,over which figures of different animals are cut•n stone, find above the wof’, which rises toa great height from the ground, is now *•a small garden, ornamented with flower-potsand shrubbery, the life rent property of theMagistrate to whose care the disposing ofthe burying ground ia the Church-yard is |Committed. This fSouth Cross Is of m much :finite recent data than the ether parts ofthe CatLedn*, having been founded and builtto its present height hy Bishop Biacttdcr, aboutthe year 1500.due Cathedral is enlightened with 1>/ :Windows including tlwlbold Barony Caurch;is supported with 117 Pillars, high and low;and is in . circusn&rance round the walls,without following tae line ol measure of.the Ides .‘'21 elfs or 975 feet. Its longtn,within the walls is 284 feet, breadth 65 feet.The height of the Choir from the floor to ;.13Inrcr Kiel) Church five feet less; the roofof the Barony Church 18 feet. The altitudeof the great Tower or middle Steeple 22Sfeet from the flocr of the Choir, which isICO feet higher than the level of the Clydeat the Old Bridge of Glasgow.This stately Edifice was preserved fromdestruction by the Townsmen, zt the Refor-matiop, who Ihouah zealous reformers lis¬tened to the judicious remonstrance of theirchief Magistrate.— “ I cm not pulling downthe High Church” said the. Provost, “ butnot till we iiave first built a new one.Around the Cathedral is situated a Come♦ cry called the High Church Yard inclosedwith a wall againot which are built manySspulchar Monuments. For many ages thisspot has continued to be the principal buryingground of the City, and at present upwardsof 750 are interred upon an avarage annually.Of If te a new piece cr ground, immediatelyadjoining the Church Yard upon the North,has been taken in for the pnrpcse of makingan addition to tLo Ccmetry.We are informed by Spottiswocd, and itis now prtUy generally allowed that a Relig-gious establishment was founded at Glasgow,as early as the year 590 of which a personof t o name of St. Mongo or Kentigem,famous for his sanctity, was appointed Super¬in Cendant or Bishop. After his death whichhappened in the beginning of the year 601,nho f'".5 ry Baldrede, formerly hfedisciple who amongst other act of piety,founded a religious house at Inchinnin; butas to the time, of tin's Prel te’s death, or eventhe names of his successors down to the ■•ear1115 we hcvp no account that can be reliedupon. Indeed for this long space of nearly500 years ;t aopeirs that the possessions ofthe See of Glisgow were rent amongst theseveral petty nations who at that time, bytheir continual contentions dehiged Scotlandwith blood : and from Itonce it is probable,f'hat during that period, no regular Ecclesias¬tical institution was established within theJ ) ’ rj c; <AAt the a5can ‘no o’ David I. to the tbraner-f Scotland, in IIA’ ho not only appliedhimself to the reforming of the many abusesthat subsisted io h'fs kingdom but also of newendowed the See of Gbsgow with a veryp-cpig rctohne, and anpornfed John Ach-.ousta the Bisbcnrie, a mun of greet learn'g.ind who had formerly served httn in tueipi vity of Precepator.To this Prelate the City Oiesgo v - o-w,.lie foumlabion of her st'te'v (’•uuodt<i!, wUmmho consecrated in presence of his il'ustrc'ousPotron in the summer of the ye:.r 1 Id'*The King, at that tim-t in addition to idsformer grants, a> t* ;o testimony < f b-s fsfeemjr, fr’li'ch he held this C-onTh be stowed tn cn itthe lands of Patrick on the hanks of th® Kuo inrfa river that runs into the Clyde, about troUtijcs beloH the City.i ri oThe Cathedra' Glag"n’*' did ftot cscap*»'ic general rage at the Reformation, whenthe people having cast off the yoke of Rome,insulted and despised their former spiritualguides and wrecked their fury against everyChurch and monument of their ancient faith.In the year {.57d, ir was not only robbed ofwhat was valuable within, but even strippedof its leaden roof. The Magistrates at thistime, (to their honour,) contributed towardsrepairing of the Church. (€200 Scots; butunder proteiiation that in so doing no pre¬cedent was t" be inferred as the upholdingof the Church be! nged to the person inpossession of the See.In 157£?, when the popular rage was sane-*tfened by an of the Lcgiikdure, theMagistrates of Glasgow granted warrant forthe final destruction of the High Church, m lin the course of a few days it would probablyS.^ve been levelled with the dust. fa<j notthe Incorporations of the citv, as tAmentioned exerted themselves in its favor,and. at th? r:=k of their lives jreset vec! itfiom destruction; for r>o sooner were theworkmen, to the ; - aunt of several hundr.-ds,ceiled together f'm this purpose, than tieCrafts assembled and tbveatmd with deaththe first tliat should begin the demolation To them therefore, are we indebted for thepreservation of this venerable sfructuie, rowthe most perfect of the kind in the kingdert;.though we have endeavoured in the fore¬going description to be as clen- prd t xplicateM possible, with a view of com i ;ng a properklet oP this ancient Edifice, yet we are sensi¬ble that after all, no notion can be formed,trom that description any thing adequate to ivhatit merits, as it is one of those objects which tabe fully understood must be seen.From the elevated situation of the Cathed¬ral its steeples command a most extensiveprospect well worthy of attention either tothe stranger or citizen from its almost un¬rivalled variety. To the East, the wholev ile of Clyde rich in towns, in seats and injv laces, presents itself to view.' In thisdirection for n considerable way, long lawnsiutennixt with trees and villas,, gratify the eye. ^ :Beyond appear the lot\y towers of Both-Well, and priccely neat of the Hamiltons;and furthler op, toe banks begin to growmere steep, along sJccosshm of splendid houses Stowering from amort the woods, tingedwith azure the farther they rectxfe captivatethe aittuiiiou. i’a.i rwov remote appearsthe County Town, crowned s® it were withtiie lofty mountain of Tiato, which fills upthe back ground o? this delightful scene. If you turn to the W est. the populous manu¬facturing fown of Paisley and the Castle ofMearns and Crickstone noted tor the resi-dencs of the nufiortunate Queen Mary Stewartand the Noble fortress of Dumbarton, perchedupon a rock, appear full in view; the hillsof Ilenfrawshire and the snow-capt mountoins ?of Argule, still farther oj, terminate theprospect. To the North, toe Ca.nosie hills,at the distance of ten, and in the oppositedirection those of Cithkin, tUsuat five miles,close sn unrivalled landscape.About the j^ear 1524, and whiW GarinDnnbar held possession of the See. the Cityci Glasgow was witness to one of thesi? shock¬ing executions on account of religion whichat that time disgraced the country. Twopersons here fell vic'ims of the persecutionei tie priests, Viz: J. Russell a Grey Friar,seemingly more enlightened than his brethern,and John Kennedy, from the Conntt of Ayr,scarcely exceeding 13 years of age. Aftsra mock trial, they were found guilty of beingenemies to the Church, sr.u delivered overto the secular power, to see the dreadfulsentence of the flames put in execution ! —When pear the stake, Russell a man of'"un¬common fortitude, addressed his feliow-stifRrer bidding him not to fear; for thought the pain they were about to suffer w: - acute^ yet it was of short duration, p.r.d led thei wav to everlasting happiness. They scScredt at the East end of the Cathedral Church, but1 fortunately were the only persons sacrificedt at that time here through the huminity • ofi Archbishop Dunbar who was averse to theiri execution but was at lajt forced to acquiesce.(being himself threatened by the other Judgeswho sat on the trial.18A. c' SHORT ACCOUNTor THEBATTLE OF GLASGOW.ABOUT the year 1272. Edwari fmtEngland had got possession of the chiefTowns, Castles and Fortresses in Scotland:yet notwithstanding he had by 1.0 meanssubdued the spirit of the people; and althougha great part of the Nobles submitted ignb-minidusly to a foreign yoke, a chosen fewheaded by the brave Sir William Wallace,whose name nui%t ever remain clear to everyScotchman, stood forth in. behalf of their in¬jured Country, and bv continually harassingthe English, rendered their possession cfScotland equally hazardous and disagioeble.In a pitched battle, fought near the townof Riggar. between these parties, the forces«f the English being defeated, a truce wasagreed to for one year, and signed in theChurch of Ilutherglen. t his, however, with•t'-t vas r.thcr a inr-lfet cf cc^cs.-’tyl.u-.a choice, as tliey foui.u forces brc4.inar- disconcfrteu through t!:eir iil succet*H»* the last cngagtrr.cLt,. Ar.d indettl, toi. gaidless was Edward of the treaty, that >nthe idiiow-tr.g month of A[:iil loeg before^ truce had expired it w»» det r.rir.ed, iat Council lulu by him at Cariislo to cicp'oytroaclidry in order to cifoctoate that purposev hk-K ha foittid it so diiacuit to acacnt^lEhby the vJcu Ida arms.^ Nfith this view it was reso’vei to c'.ilr Comt of Justice, tdiiiitt tig cf the f arta swho oppOi-vd his i-'iercst in Scotiand, in twoseperafe places, Hz: Ayi euu Ciasjjt.w morder t'ut. wiso (• nvertid l.c mightmore easily aoooinp’.'sii toeir eEstriv. on. Accordingly the Eng'nh force w .s dividedcue party v.as detained far •* r vhile tie*other under Percy of 1>i> ; tlutnibeilakd,directed their-ccursc tavrairE Gm.-gow.On the day appointed ter lioUllrig tl.e Courtut Ayr, a great i.un ber fell a sac rid. ? to thisstratopira. though Wallace who was lurkingin the neighbourhood with bis forces, amplyrepaid them for their treacherous cruel:3 ;but in such i ujar.ner rs could only be justifiedb-y the nature of the attack. He next £uathis march with three hundred cavelry, to-waris Glasgow, with a cicw of defeating thedesiga t. teriain .d by tits enemy at that pence.Having arrived there at i-iise o’Ciock in theteorning, he drew up ids men at the North50«?f the Old Bridge; and after reconnei-U ring the situation and numbers of the Eng¬lish he prepared lor an assault, by dividinghU force into two columns ; the one, underthe command of Bosvrell Laird of Auchinleck,and Adam Wallace, his uncle, he directed toform a corpse of reserve, while he with themain body, atacked the enemy in front—When so engaged, Auchinleck's party trereordered to march by St. Mungo’s lane, orBurnt Barns, towards the South-east quarterdt the Drvgale, near to ■which the English,to the amount of a thousand men were placedar.d thus fall upon the enemy on the flank.The rction having accordingly commerced,with p-« t braverv on both sides, the Eng-Jish, from the superiority of their number,seemed fob some time to have the better ofthe day.—H > ever the column which wasunder Auchimeck, to the amount of 140,having arrived by marching un the Dry gate,they unexpectedly attacked the enemy inflank, and thus turned the scale of victoryin favour of the Scots: who, upon the flightof the English pursued them and Bishop Beck,to the Castle cf Both well, nine miios east»'f the City, where they obtained shelter;and Wallace and his army, returned, to Glas¬gow, after having killed in this engagement,Percy, the English General, end seven hun¬dred of his men—if we can credit the occcusta,« anded down te us by the Scottish historians«f that time.21Edward grieved at t!.»s fortunate Fuccevof Wallace, and understanding that he washighly en ed by the Earl of March, theCummings the greatest surname then inScotland, and divers rr.cier.t Nob’ men overwhose honour Wallace’s renojtvn drew theveil, he stirred up llobert Bruce elder,-endhis factiein persuaded them thst Wallacewas Brnce’s only competitor for the CrownHaving by this means, made a strong partyfor himself; the next spring he came with naarmy of 40 800 men Scots and English toFalkirk, eleven miles from Stirling. TheScots army was very great, being .‘30 0tX>flrcng if they had been ail of one mind;But John Gumming Lord of Cuc.ibernauid,wht? had cn eye to the Crov. n, persuadedLord John Stewart of Bute, being tutorand grandfather, by the mother to LoidJames Stewart of Renfrew to contend withWallace for the leaning of the van guard,alledging that the same belonged io J.ordStewart's of Renfrew bv most ancient privilege.Wallace refusing this, they parted one from,another, 10,000 only remaining with Wallace.Gumming v. ith 1000 of his followers, aftera small show of resistance, treacherously fled,leaving the valient. Stewart inclosed by tvrabattalions of the English, by whom> after hehad fought valiently for a long time, he wascut dlF with ail his followers. Wallace withhis party defended themselves valiantly untilthey were safely retired beyond the riverCarron, losing besides others, the most nobleSir John Graham, the most valient worthy«f Scotland next to Wallace. Bruce whomEdward had brought with all hi-* friends,into the field upon pretence to assist him torecover his right from the usurper perceiv¬ing Wallace on the other side of the Carron,desired to speak with him. After Bruce hadupbraided him, as foolishly usurping theICjngdom of Scotland against so powerfula faction at home ass:sted by so mighty a Kingabroad I answered Wallace ‘ I never intendto reign in Scotland.; but finding inv nativecountry abandoned by you and Baliol whohave pght to the Grown have set myself todefend my friends and neighbours from theunjust tyrrany and superstition of the Kingof England who sutteth you forth most un-nalurally to tear the bowels of your motherwith your own hands.” After dwers speechesto this purpose, Bruce perceiving the fraudfuland tyrannous dealing of Edward returnedto the host.The next morning Wallace understandingthat the English army was but weakly en¬trenched and in great security amissing withhis own army such its had escaped .sot uponthem in the dawning beijore they could getarrayed, and killed many, so that the EnglishKing returned at that time v\ ithout any furthereixplo*.Bruce remembering what lie heard fromWallace, desired Edward according to hisformer premise to pat him 'in possession otso much of the Kingdom of Scotland as then23was under his flower : To which he answeredin the French tongue, “ Have we no more adobut conquer kingdoms for you r”By this speech Lord Bruce conceived so greatgiief and ann;er that within few days he died,without seeing his eldest son Robert afts rwardgKing he being kept in Caiias Cu.stie? as hostagefor his fathers obedience.After this unhappy battle, Wa'lrce striv¬ing to recover such Castles as Edward hadtaken, found such opposition and backwardnessby envious emoiations that he returned to St.John^toun. and >n tire Assembly of the Statesresigned hl8<cli;trge of warden ; and woth eight¬een men passed again into France, according to»• promise.he had given at his return therefrom.This fell cut at the cud of the year ikOO.The opposite faction having k ined theirdesire cf.ose John Camming Governor; the•ether because Edward had promised to assisthim to the Crown of Scot’and ; but he found1. itn &« cront an epf.iy as he h id been to Wallacefor after ssven months, Bruca obtaimd by theleoanb of the French King, Edward ^cnt S.fRalph Godfrey, with d great army tp sot-duert;e Scots and to put an end to the wor wliicli heexpected woui- easy, vdlucc bc-. g irov/outcf the way.j . ,24Cumming joining ’.vith L&rd Simos Fraser,making eight or nine thousand of an army,came to resist the English, who having wastedthe country as far as Rosiand, about five milesfrom Edinburgh, not expecting any resistancedivided themselves into three parties thatthey might spread . desolation farther intothe country. The Scots taking the advantageof this circumstance set upon the first division,and easily discomfited them; the second also,albeit stronger, by the joining of those whotied, was after along conflight put to the rout.The third division coming up strongly re¬pulsed the Scots, they being much fatiguedand weakened in the too former encounters,and having to withstand a fresh army of >greater number than either of the f wo formerliereupoh- they were forced to kill, all their .jprisoners, lest tb ty should assist the enemy,and with their weapons to arm the baggagemen: then engaging with the greatest intre¬pidity, after a long an^ desperate bloodyconflict, they put the enemy to flight ! Thisengagement was fought March 4 th. 1S01.F INIS.