CHEAP THACTS, Kfo. 5.llAND DISASTERSON LAND,, XHIBITING MANY USEFUL WARN¬INGS TO AVOID DANGER.From (he experience of others learn caution.DUNFERMLINE *.PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER*18^-Accidents and DisastersON LAND., , T, l T T ■ ^ >H A W a u i.-J J i w ti/i 111Heaton Colliery lies a mile and a-half eaof Newcastle-upon-Tyne, and was won abotwenty-five years ago. The workings arc cai ied on in the liigh main coal, from the diAvhere the engine pits are sunk to the [depthabout eighty fathoms, towards the rise, whethey may be twenty-five fathoms, covering ithe seam, but here the present owners have pdown no shafts. The inclination of the strcis nearly east and by south.To the east and north-west of Heatcn-hrll, athe wastes of ancient collieries, long since abadoned j and the conductors of the. mine, well Iware of the .great body of water they would ha ito contend with when they approached theboundaries, had increased the number of thl'steam-engines to three, (oue of which is of tjpower of one hundred and thirty horse,) tjwhole being capable of drawing 1,200 gallefeach minute $ and, by this prudent precautiul3had already freed themselves from the Waterpressing' upon them from the west; but thataccumulated towards the north-west was still tobe let off. Fur this purpose, a drift was drivenin a direction to perforate the old workings jnear Heaton Burn, a little to the north, and byeast of the hall, where the remains of numerouspit-heaps are to be seen. An up-cast dike ofeight fathoms had just been passed through :this should have served to point out the spotwhere the miners of former times were, fromnecessity, likely to suspend their labours ; andnow all due precaution should have been used to: guard against impending danger.This drift in the stone had been driven in aij.. sloping direction upwards, to regain the seam,S; and two feet ©f coal already formed ks roof.. i At four o’clock on the fatal mor ning, Mr Miller,I the resident or under-viewer, visited the men| engaged in this operation; and, a dripping of|fj water from the roof being pointed out to them,il he gave directious that the \vork should bea squared up ; and said, he would send in thed borers at niue o’clock, with the next shift, to as-a certain whether .the water proceeded from theW wastes or no. In less than a quarter of an houri after this conversation took place, the water be-Igan to run more freely through the chink, andthe two drifters becoming rather alarmed, sentthe boy to apprize two other men, who werei working near them, of the state of the mine;i also directed him to go to the crane, where the: corves of coal are delivered from the board ways4into the waggon or roily-way, and acquaint thewhole of the men in the pit of the danger. The1youth asserts, that no one was at the crane whenhe reached it: hut this is altogether improbable jand no doubt is entertained, that impelled byfear, he made the best of his way to the shaftand escaped. The two workmen first mentioned,had now quitted the face of the drift, and oneof them, recollecting that he had left his jacketbehind, proposed to the other to return and seehow the water was coming off; but at this in¬stant, a frightful crash, accompanied by aviolent gust of wind, which extinguished thecandles, warned them that an immense torrent ofwater was rushing into the mine ; they fled pre¬cipitately towards the working shaft, distanta mile, and, as the water of course flowed firstdown the lowest level, reached it just in time tosave their lives. The two men who were work¬ing near them, the boy before-mentioned, andfifteen other men and boys, who were on theroily-way, were so fortunate as make their escape,but not till the last of them was up to his waistin water. Every possibility of retreat to thoseleft behind was now cut off; and, shocking torelate, seventy-five human beings, including Mr.Miller, were shut up in the workings towardsthe rise of the colliery, either to perish by hunger,or die for want of respirable air; and twenty-four hours elapsed before the water rose totwenty-five fathoms in the engine pit, if it couldeven then displace the air confined in the higherpart of the mine. Some faint expectations were«lit%5entertained during the course of the first day,I that a communication might be opened to thesei unhappy people, by uncovering and descendingIjl through one of the old shafts, at Heaton Banks ;i but, before the scaffoldingr was reached, thesurrounding earth fell in, and every, glimpse ofhope vanished. Workmen are now busied inclearing out a shaft in front of Heaton-hall, but,owing to rubbish which has accumulated at thebottom, and the carboretted hydrogen which isu ascending in great profusion, much time is spenti before that part of the workings can be inspec¬ted, where most of the pit-men were known tobe employed when the accident took place.The sutferers who thus found a living grave,ft have left twenty-four widows and seventy-seveni orphans, besides Mrs Miller and her eightchildren, to deplore their untimely fate. Asubscription was immediately made to relieve thepecuniary distress of their families.P. S. Thirty-seven horses were in the mineat the catastrophe.Colliery on Fire.Sometime ago it was discovered that a fireexisted in the old working of the nine-feet coalat Sauchy Colliery, in the vicinity of Alloa.From the investigation made, it appears that thisfire must have been begun about ten years ago,at the dead crop or out-burst of coal t^ the sur-face, where a heap of mire rubbish had beenkindled, and from its continuing- to burn formany months, had communicated fire to the coal, !which was only a few feet from this burningmass. The fire is amongst the rubbish of the©Id work, and so close to the crop of the coal thatthe heat has the effect of melting the snowpresently on the ground there. The fire is in a jstate of simple agitation, that is red hot, but noflame, and it is surprising to find how very littleprogress it has made in the space of ten years.It is very remarkable that no smoke or vapourfrom the burning mass has appeared at any oneof the numerous pits which are upon this nine-feet coal ; it is concluded, however, that thegreat extent of waste or old mines around, con¬denses the smoke and vapour, which are gene¬rated slowly, and in very small quantities.Effectual measures are now in progress to extin¬guish the fire, which will be easily accomplished,without any loss whatever to the earl of Mans¬field, who is the proprietor of the coal field,v ei y orQ-crjited accounts are afloat regardingthis Hre, as if it were like Etna or Vesuvius ivomiting flame ; but such is its quiet state, thata stranger may walk over the spot where the fireis, and not discern or suspect that such a processis going on below ground.Distressing Accident.A frightful accident occurred some timeago at Lockerby : Mr W. Johnstone, grocerand spirit daaler, had a cask containing about^Olbs. of gun-powder, which, from whatevercause, had become too damp to be saleable, andwhich he rather incautiously placed behind thecounter, within a few feet of the shop lire. Toaid, we presume, the drying process, the top ofthe barrel had been taken off, and its place sup¬plied by one or more sheets of stoat brown paper.When candles were required and lighted at dusk,Mr Johnstone’s father-in-law, who had beenassisting his friends during the hurry of the fair,hastily topped one of them with his lingers, andthrew the snuff, as he supposed, into the fire.Part of it, however, lighted on the paper thatcovered the powder, and by eating through,to use our informant’s own words, occasionedsuch a fearful explosion as threw the whole townfor a time into dismay. Though the walls of thehouse withstood the shock, every article of mer¬chandise was either destroyed, injured, or dis¬placed ; and when the neiffhbnprc «*“J miners naoleisure to inquire into the cause ot the alai m, ascene of ruin and confusion presented itselt, suchas is rarely witnessed in a country town. MisJohnston and her father were both very dread¬fully scorched, and not only was ’the shop win¬dow blown away, but the former carried after it,and thrown with considerable violence on the street.sEven the outer door was riven from its hinges, .and transported with such force across the street,that it smashed a window on the opposite side.A brick partition which divides the shop in |question, from that occupied by Mr Pagan, |draper, was also thrown down, and the goods |within, tossed from the shelve*, and strewed fabout the floor, like litter in a stable. In a room >above the shop, two individuals were sittingdrinking a glass of toddy, and while in the act )of interchanging fiiendly conversation, the grate,as if endowed with the powers of locomotion, jsaddenly moved from its proper position, and at ithe same moment one of the interlocutors was ipitched to the “ far corner of the appartment.”The other who is a very heavy ma», stuck likea rock to his first position, and it is believed thathis superior specific gravity prevented him from .being put to any inconvenience. And here wemay notice a remarkable circumstance. One ofthe individuals just alluded to, had his glass inthe right hand, and a tea spoon in the left, whenhe was suddenly removed from his seat at thetable ; and so astounding was the whole affair,tliat lie still retained these articles after he ,had escajjra f-c.™ scet]e 0f danger, and hadjourneyed a good way up the streets of Lockerhy.\Y hen spoken to on the subject, he appeared likea person awakened from a dream; and altogether,the explosion we have noticed, produced all theeffects ot an earthquake in the town of Lockerbyand its immediate vicinity. Mr Johnston’sfather-in-law is so severely scorched, that he9cannot see the light of day ; his dau ghter is inan equally pitiable situation ; and we a'O'e grieveduto add, that both are considered to be i’n a pre-i!carious, if not in a very dangerous way.Duel Extuaordinary.A very novel species of duel has lately taken; iplace at Paris. M. de Granpree and M.!Le Pique having qtiarrelled about MademoiselleiTirevit, a celebrated opera dancer, who was kept' Iky the former, but had been discovered in an in-n trigue with the latter, a challenge ensued. Being(both men of elevated mind, they agreed to lighttin balloons, and in order to give time for theirn!preparation, it was determined that the dueli d should take place that day month. According-vjly on the 3rd of May, the parties met at a fieldi jadjoining the Thuiileries, where their respectiveHballoons were ready to receive them. Each,attended by a second, ascended his car, loaded■I with blunderbusses, as pistols could not be ex¬pected to be efficient in their probable situations.A great multitude attended, hearing of theballoons, but little dreaming of their purpose :the Parisians merely looked for the novelty of aballoon race. At nine o’clock the cords weredcut, and the balloons ascended majestically, amidstthe shouts of the spectators. The wind wasdmoderate, blowing from the N. N. W. and10they kept, as far as could bejudoed, within about80 yards, of each other. When they hadmounted to the height of about 900 yards, M.Le Pique fired his piece ineffectually ; almostimmediately after, the fire was returned by M. :Granpree, and penetrated his adversary’s balloon;the consequence of which was its rapid descent,and M. Le Pique and his second were bothdashed to pieces on a house-top, over which theballoon fell. The victorious Granpree then ;mounted aloft in the grandest style, and descen¬ded safe with his second, about seven leagues ;from the spot of ascension. fFatal effects of Putrid Matter oxthe Human System.A remarkable instance of the fatal effects ofthe introduction of virulent animal matter intothe human system, lately happened in the caseof James Gray, a shepherd, then m the serviceof Mr Archbold of Heton, who, in the act ofskinning a sheep which had died of disease (thethorter ill) and which was at the time in a stateof putrescence, accidentally cut one of his fingerswith the knife he was then using. The conse¬quent effect of the poisonous matter into thewound was truly astonishing ; for on his goinghome in the evening, he complained to his wife11mi family that (to use his own expression) lieml inoculated himself, and he already began to!‘el the had consequences of it over all that sideif his body on which the linger was cut. Atwe o’clock the next morning, he complainedrj ixeeedingly, when medical assistance was sentprr but no kind of relief could be given, andnth such rapidity did the morbific matter attack:is system, that he actually became, a corpse,In the highest degree of putridity, by eleven’clock that day, being less than ‘24 hours fromihe'introduction of the matter to his dissolution.The above seems worthy of being mentioned ascaution to such as may be employed in the:ike operation.Suffocation in a Fermenting Vat.A melancholy accident occurred in a dis-t ill err in Belfast. When (he fermenting vatwas to be cleaned, though the men had been al¬ways strictly enjoined to have a large piece takenlout on the previous night, and also to put downsome burning coals, and afterwards to throw aquantity of water, in order to expel the new air,> yet, from mere negligence, one of them without' even trying the simple experiment of sendingblown a lighted candle, rashly deseende i into> i the vat, and was suffocated in a moment. His12companions hearing him fall down, one of them Ihastily went to his assistance, and, though others :who were present insisted on his tying a rope j.round his waist, he, through over anxiety to savehis comrade, instantly descended without it, but j:had scarcely reached the bottom of die ladder ijwith a rope in his hand to fasten to th« otherman, when he himself was so affected by the air,that he could only give some tremulous shrieksor cries, but being totally unable to help himself, healso fell down. Immediate exertions were thenmade by all present; and another man havingfixed a rope round his waist descended, hut be¬fore he could lay hold of either of die other twopersons, he also was so strongly affected that thepeople above immediately drew him up again.For some minutes he was strongly convulsed,and appeared like a person deranged ; but onbeing taken to the open air, he immediately re¬covered. Notwithstanding what he had ex¬perienced, his humanity prompted him to makea second attempt, in which he succeededin throwing a noose over one of themen’s legs, and he and that man were bothdrawn out Though very much affected, andgreatly exhausted by his second attempt : he in¬sisted on going down a third time for the otherman; he did so, and in a similar way accom¬plished his object. Having been rather longerdown this third time, when drawn up, he wasvery seriously affected, but fortunately soon re-severed. Medical assistance being immediatelycalled, every exertion was made by two profes-13t isional gentlemen to recover the two men whofirst descended; but though the one hud beenoonly fifteen minute* and the other only ten, in) the vat, yet every attempt to revive them provedotineffectuaJ.Accident from Gunpowder.Some time ago a singular occurrence tookb place with the Edinburgh mail-coach. A gen-r jtleman having a gun-case, had persuaded thejtjiservants of the coach to place it behind the coach¬man’s seat to prevent its rubbing. They hadWhpt proceeded far from Newark, where theiijpassengers dine, when one of the outsides, who2.pit on the roof, smoking his pipe, the embersilfell on the gun-case, which was wrapped in aBjpiat, containing under it three pounds of gun¬powder, in separate parcels, one of which ex¬ploded, and blew the man from off the roof, and^the driver, and another on the box, precipitatelylinto the road. The guard, with praise-worthyitexertions, stopped the horses, and proceeded totijcut away the gun-case, being told by theyj passengers there was more powder ; '.then^mother pound blew up, and, on getting it off tob he ground, the third exploded; fortunately nowither injury was sustained, than the coachmani [spraining his ancle, and the guard burning hisWand, The rule with mail-coaehes is, not tousuffer any hig'gfag'eon the outside of the coaches;Iktle can be said to a simple gun-case, though,in this instance, it might have proved serious ;but the servants of public carriages are very re¬prehensible in suffering passengers to smoke onthe journey. A lamentable circumstance latelyoccurred, in the like manner, to a ba^gage-vvaggon in Hampshire.Dreadful Explosion.A dreadful explosion took place some timeago, attended with the most melancholy conse¬quences. The 2d battalion of the 8th regimenthaving been relanded a few days i»inoe, theirluggage and ammunition were placed on PointBeach, where they remained till this morning,when an old woman emptying a pipe which shehad been smoking among the baggage, thespat ks fell on a barrel of gunpowder, and an in¬stant explosion took place. The effect was mostdreadful. About thirty men, women and children,were literally blown to atoms, and the remains «of their bodies, limbs, and heads, are strewed in Iall directions. One poor fellow was blownover the whole of the buildings in Point street;another against the wall of the Union tavern, as |high as the garret window ; the thigh of the thirdwas blown as far as Broail-street Point. I haveseen numbers of legs, arms, &c., taken from thelo; >ps of the liouses, and the whole presents ai ene shocking beyond description. 'All the?ouses below Broad street Point have had their:i;hes blown out; and the Star and Garter,lid Union, together with every house from theitach upwards, have had the whole of their: indows completely demolished. The barrel ofDwder which exploded stood in a tier withs fcteen others, which for several hours were!rery moment expected to explode, as thei no king fragment* were literally strewed overi em ; but a company of the Worcester militia,;ith some resolute sailors at their head, ven-i ired to the spot, and cleared the burning frag-i tents from the remainiiigbarrels. Previous toids bold enterprise, which will doubtless be du-3i rewarded, almost all the families fled in con-oision to Portsdown Hill, expecting the wholerhvn to be destroyed by the apprehended ex-tiitosion ; but they have since returned, imploringr&ssings upon the heads of the brave fellowsho saved the town from general destruction,dndergreen’s store, the Star and Garter, andinion, were on fire for some time, but not■) stroyed. Many windows were broken at[•! osport, and two ovens were blown down.[ Loss of Lives in a Snow Storm.j In the storm of January 1809, several per¬ms lost their lives in attempting to return homefrom Whitby market. Christopher Swales, ablacksmith in Goatland, about ten miles fromWhitby, on his return called upon his son atSleights, who seeing his father determined toproceed on his journey, undertook to accompanyhim over the most difficult part of the road.Having travelled a few miles, the old mangrew so faint, that his son was under thenecessity of taking him upon his back. Afterencountering they greatest difficulties, the reachedthe end of their journey, but not before thefather had suffered so severely from the cold andfatigue, that he expired almost immediately onentering the house. The son was also reducedto such a state of weakness, by the exertions hehad been compelled to make, that his recoverywas for some time doubtful. Another suffererfrom the severity of the storm was a youngwoman of the name of Sellers, likewise a resi¬dent in Goat’and. The mofcst pressing entreatiesof her friends at Whitby could not prevail withher to stay the night; her constant reply beingthat if she did not go home, her mother wouldconclude that something had happened to her.On the evening of the 18th, she was foundsitting upon the snow on the moor, with herhorse standing by her, and the bridle in her hand,nearly frozen to death ; but on being taken toa farm-house, she soon recovered. She musthave been exposed to the severe storm not lessthan SO hours. A farmer of Liverton, calledReuben Roger, also returning from Whitby,lost his life near Scalingdam, from the inclemeu*17i cy of the weather. His body was found a fewI days afterwards under the snow ; the people whoIf discovered him being drawn to the spot by ob-jji serving a stick placed upright in the snow ;ui which measure it appears, the deceased hadi.S adopted as a signal, when exhausted nature hadI been compelled to resign the hopless contest.Two men have been found on the moor, nearI Cock Moor-hall, in the neighbourhood ef Star¬'ll borough, who had perished in the storm onI : Saturday, the 17th ult.Affecting Occurrence.Last week, an inquest was holdfin at Lang-|i ham, before John Ellington Jones, Gent., one11: of the coroners for the county of Rutland, on thej bodies of Margaret, John, and Rachael Lowe,the wife and children of John Lowe, a blindj( beggar, who were accidentally drowned in the| brook that runs through Langham pasture. The)man and his family were travelling from ColdOverton to Langham, on the preceding evening,and the brook for a moment was swollen to aniamazing size. A baker passing with his cart,t took them all up—the woman and children intothe body of the cart, and the man upon the foreipart of it with himself. As soon as they at¬tempted to cross the ford, the cart was carriedaway by the force of the stream, and turned over.Ihe woman and children, together with thehorse, were drowned : the blind man was savedhy his dog-, a rope from which was fastenedround his wrist. The baker escaped with diffi¬culty. This distressing- event occurred beforeit was dark, but the bodies of the woman andchildren were not found until the fallowingmorning. Upon the body of the elder child, afine boy, three years old, the usual means ofresuscitation were long tried, but-without thesmallest effect. It is a remarkable circumstance,,that the dog, though he has been only threemonths in the possession of the poor man, hascontinually pined, and eaten nothing since thefatal accident. He is a young bull-dog.Thunder Storm at Ayr.On Tuesday afternoon a very sharp storm otthunder and lightning came on here, which lastecupwards of an hour. It was most severely fclin the neighbourhood of Moukton. There itssound and appearance are represented to hav«been truly terrific. During the storm a vas.deluge of rain, mixed with heavy hail, fell out.which washed all the small gravel off the roatin that village ; but it did not extend to tluSpittal Hill, four miles north-east of it. At tinn*rth end of Monkton a very singular phenomenon took place, which was observed by thre19men :—A flash of lightning struck a hedge op-Aposite to them, from which they saw an im-i mediate emission of smoke. Where it struck,I a quantity of earth had been torn out and scat-il tered about; but a scraggy tree and the' thornsof the hedges were untouched. Within a fewyards of this spot stood a stable, where twohorses were put up in separate stalls, just at thei commencement of the storm. When they werei visited after it, they were both dead, and fallenill contrary ways ; nor, except a slight appearanceh of singeing on one of them, was there the leastII mark of external hurt. The stable is thatched,siand above where the horses stood was tilled> i with loose straw : The door was shut, and no|ii appearance* of the electric fluid having been inithe place could be perceived. The one horsei was the property of, and the other hired by;) Gilbert M‘Call, an industrious man, who sup-r| ported his family by carting, &c., with them.We understand a subscription has been set on( foot to alleviate his loss. The lightning alsoti struck the roof of Underwood House ; tore ofti; the "slates, and left the sarking bare the width!of a plough-fur ; went down the kitchen vent,passing by a aumber of children sitting near thefire; struck the opposite wall, following thedirection of the bell-wire *, tore down the lathand plaster ; ascended to the first floor ; drovel off the washing-board, and broke one of the stepsI of the stair.20Accident occasioned by a Gig.A serious accident occurred in this town onthe afternoon of Friday last. A fine young1animal, the property of Mr Anderson, ofShearing-tow, had been put into a gig for thefirst time, and was driven a few miles out oftown by Mr Johnstone, horse-breaker. On re- *turning to town, the driver called at a house in <Assembly-street, to shew a gentleman how veryquiet the horse was, and while reining up, thehead stool'of the bridle unfortunately got so loose, |-that the bits dropped out of the animal’s mouth.On discovering this, Mr Johnstone alighted toput matters to rights, but the horse suddenlylowered his head, and as the bearing rein was;fixed, the blinders shifted from his head to hissneck, and enabled him to get a view of thevehicle behind, to which he had been harnessedfor the first time. This so alarmed him, that;he started olf, with the driver clinging manfullyto his mane, until they reached the CommercialBank, where Mr Johnstone, by a sudden jerkof the shaft, was pitched to the other side of thtstreet. When fairly unrestrained, the afffightetanimal careered along Irish street with thtgreatest fury, and at length his head came scviolently in contact with the iron railing in fromof the corner shop, immediately under thtCounty Tax Office, that he was killed in outmoment, and dropped down as motionless as ilhe had been struck by lightning. A number o:persons witnessed the accident, and it is a greamercy that no farther mischief ensued.21.Accident from Machinert,A most distressing- accident occurred atI iMorton-mains on Friday last. On the afternoonJof that day, a respectable young man wasleinployed in feeding the thrashing-mill, when.thinking that the grain was going in too thick,and that it might tend to choke the machinery,he incautiously put in his left hand with a view|of withdrawing the superfluous straw. In doingthis, the rollers unfortunately caught hold of hisInarm, and drew it in up to the shoulder.—Hadihe proclaimed his danger by calling-for assistance,• the machinery could have be n stopped in one| moment; but some time elapsed before his^perilous situation was known, and even after theimill had ceased to move, nearly half an;uhour elapsed before the machinery could be|turned and cut so as to leave a passage for theshattered member. Three medical gentlemeniij arrived at Morton-mains within ene hour from8 the time the accident occurred, and after apatient and painful investigation, amputation wasdeemed indispensably necessary. The operationi was borne with wonderful fortitude, and not¬withstanding all he had gone thiough, the suf¬ferer obtained a little sleep through the night,i and to all appearance was apparently so easy on, the following morning, that hopes are entertainedof his ultimate recovery.Q2Attempt or an Eagle to Devoir a Boy,A very singular occurrence liappenecl somtime ago, in the parish of St. Ambrose, aboii inine miles from this city. Two boys, the on,seven and the other five years old, amused themselvts in an adjoining field, trying to reap, whi!their parents were at dinner. A large eaglsoon came s tiling over them, aad with a swoqjattempted to seize the eldest, but luckily ih»sso< .him. The bird, not at all dismayed, sat on thground at a, short distance, and in a few UK*jnents repeated the attempt. The bold littLfellow defended himself against his fierce anta«gonist with the sickle he had very fortunately ithis hand, and when the bird rushed upon binlie struck at if. The sickle entered under the lefwing, and the blow having been given stronglywent through the liver, and proved instant!;fatal. The eagle was afterwards sold to MChasseur, who has stuffed it and placed it iihis museum, where it may he seen, if is th<ring-tailed or Russian eagle. The wings expand upwards of six feet. Its stomach waiopened and found entirely empty. The littl;boy did not receive a scratch.Narrow Escape.Early on the morning of the 1st curf.James Gihnour, carter, Sanquhar, attempted tccross the Nith at the usual ford, while on hii Iway to the coal-pit at Kelloside. During th,previous day it had rained heavily} the morning«S3too was pitchy dark, and in nearing the ford, hewas rather startled by the angry sough of dierolling river. Still, he apprehended no greatdanger, and urged his horse to enter the water.The animal obeyed* and had hardily waded 5or (i yards, when the body of the cart becameso bony ant, that it separated and parted com¬pany from the wheels and iron-axle—never, per¬haps, to be re-united. The horse, t®o, yieldedtfr the current, and the Carter, while sailingdown the stream, had great difficulty in keeping! his perilous barge from upsetting. A woodenbridge is thrown across the Nith a little way be-[ low where the accident happened, and in floatingdownwards, poor Gilmour actually passedi through the span, steadying the wheelless cartwhichever side happened to be highest,this juncture, the voyage was arrested by a smalli mass of sand ; and on jumping out, the car manwas well pleased to find that he was only about5 half-thigh deep in water. The next care wast to save the horse, but on making a spring to; j regain the halter, he missed his object and was[ precipitated some feet farther into the stream.As he was now immersed nearly to the waist,! he ran the greatest risk of being swept away ;I but by dint of struggling and personal strength,he very fortunately reached the shore, drenched,f breathless, and otherwise exhausted The burghj| of Sanquha lay at the distance of a quarter of ai mile, and to it he repaired without delay ; ob-t 1 tained the assistance of two friends, prudently1 furnished himself with a coil of rope, and returned24to the scene of his adventure. The horse hy ithis time had been carried several hundred yards 1down the Nith* and was found at a place called |the “ Lddy’s Chamber.,r with its head pointingdown the river, and the water nearly up to its ®neck. 13y means of ropes, thrown by no un- !•practised hands, both cart ami horse were drawn ito the side ; and the latter, in spite of its pre- |vious sufferings, had sufficient strength and 1mettle, when it came to the push, to ascend aa very steep brae, which in all probability, thefoot of a similar animal never pressed before.A Drunken Pig.A singular occurrence took place some time agoin the parish of Lethnota person fearing a visitfrom the guagers, concealed an anker of whiskyin his pig-sty. The pig, perhaps, ©onceivingthis was the only chance he had of tasting aliquor so much admired by the human species,immediately set about removing the covering,which having accomplished, he abstractedthe cork, by the help of the cloth whichenveloped it. He drank about a pint of thewhisky, which put him into such a flow of spirits,that it was dangerous to approach him. Atlast the usual effects of enebriety appeared, anddown he fell. Milk, oil, &c. &c. was poureddown his throat, hut in vain ;—poor grumphy,like many a one who has degraded himself tothe rank of brutality by intoxication, fell a sacri-' flee to drinkitw ardent sr»w-   