THENEW GAME at CARDSO R APACK OF CARDSChanged into a CoTipleat anti PerpetualA L M A N A C K.I N ADIALGGtJE BETWEEN \ NOBLEMANAND 111S SERVANT.Firft Shewing the ufe of bis ALM A.NACK by theQiiarters, Months, Weeks and Diys ot the year.Secondly, Shewing how he converts h's CARDS toa compkat Monitor or Prayer Book, with, cu¬rious remarks on the KNAVEVZ’e whole adapted to the Entertainment of the humorousr#/ well as t» the SatisfaBton of the Grave Learned,and Ingenious. Lhe like never before pubhjhed.rimed by C. RANDALL.M *PACK OF CARDSturn’d intoAN A I, M A N A C K.mazmKj' v&’mmf’.m* »»»»»• -mmA Certain Nobleman, living In the cicy ofLondon, and having a conSderable num¬ber of feryants, among them he had one inwhom he repofed a great deal cf confidence ;one of his fellow fervants becoming jealous ofhim, went to make a complaint to his mailer,in order to get him turned out of his fcrvice ;and all he could impeach him with, was, thathe was a great gamefter at earns.At which the Nobleman being highly dif-pleafed, for gamefters were a fet of people,that he mortally-hated and detefted, took thisopportunity to call him to account in orderto challife him for the fame.Jack, fays the Nobleman, what’s this I’veheard of you ?I can’t tell, pleafe your Lordlhip, fays Jack,What is it ?Why, fays the Nobleman, I’m it,formed yenare a gameller at cardsMy Lord, fays Jack, who was it that in¬formed you ? It was a falfe report, I wifn Icould know who told you fn.’ 1'is no matter for that, lays the Nobleman,are you really a gameficr or not ?JVly Lord, fays Jack, I am fo far from agarieifer,C 3 )gatntfter, I never play’d a card in my life, nordo I even know what a card means.Well, fays the Nobleman, I’m glad of thaton your account ; however, we lhall call theinformer to apoear, and know whether thefereports be true.With all ny heart, my Lord, I am verywell fatisfied The Informer being called andcome to his LordDid. you not tell me, fays the Nobleman,that Jack was become a great gamefter atcards ?Informer 1 did indeed, my Lord.N. Why then you villain, fays the Noble¬man, how dare you belie any one?y. I did not, my Lotd.iV Why, Jack utterly denies it*7 I don’t: car.* try Lord, I will prove it tohis 'face, that he fs cue of the greatefl game-fters in London : ana to convince vour Lord-Ihip of the truth of what i fay, fearch him,and you'll fmd a pack of cards in his pocket.Jack being feareh’d, the cards were haul’d.out of his pocket.TV The Nobleman being in a fury, beganto damp and rage ip a paffion about the room,faying, you audacious impudent rogue, ho'vsr-dare you be guilty of fuch falfehood, beforemy face ? Did not you tell me you neverplayed at cards in your life, nor could nottel! what a card meant, and now I find themin your pocket ; you villain, feeing you areguilty, what reafon had you to deny it ? hadyou confeffed your fault, I would be apt toforgive( 4 )forgive you, but now l will puniiTi you withthe utmolt feverity, not only becaufe you area gamefter, but becaufe vou are a liar alfo.y My Lord, fays Jack, your Lordlhipmay ufe your pleafure, but I hope, you willnot condemn me for a fault I am not guiltyof.N. You villain, what {Longer evidence Seedthere be than the cards being found in yourpocket, how can you fpeak for yourft.il ?y. My Lord, if you call thefe cards, I donot; neither do I ufe them as fuch.N. Why, what do you call them then ?T My Lord, this is my Almanack.N. Your Almanack ! you dog. Did ever anyone make an Almanack of a pack of cards ?you villain ; What fenfe could one make ofthem ?y. My Lord, I am no fchilar, and for'thatreafon I ufe them as an Almanack to rule andgovern the year by.N. Well Jack, if fo, let me-hear how youmanage your cards and if l find you convertthem to a proper ufe, I will not in tire leakbe angry, but will freely forgive you.y. Why then my Lord, ccnfider in the iffplace, There are four fuits in the cards, thatintimates the four quarters of the year ; thenas there are thirteen cards in each fuit, thatis juft as many, as there are weeks in a quar¬ter ; there are alfo as many lunations in ayear as there are cards in a fuit; there aretwelve court cards which intimate the twelvemonths of the year, and the twelve figns of( 5 )the Zocliaek through which the fun lleers itsdiurnal courfe during the fpace of one wholeyear ; there are trfty-two cards in the pack,and that direclly anfwers the exad numberof weeks in a year ; examine the cards a lit¬tle further, and you will find as many fpotsin them as there are days in a year; therebeing three hundred and fixty-five fpots in apack of cards, which is exactly the numberof days in a year, thefe l multiply by twenty-four, and then by fixty, which brings meout the exaft number of hours and minutesin a year.N. Very well Tack, I can’t fay but you ap¬ply your Almanack exceeding well, but pritheeJack, do you make any further ufe of them?y* Ves, my Lord, a great deal.JV, Why, prithee Jack, what further ufedo you make of them-?y. -Why, my Lord, I fometimes convertCards into a Prayer-Book.N. A Prayer-Book, you villain, I am fursif you make an Almanack of your cards, youcan never make a Prayer-Book of them.y. My Lord, I’ll make it appear ; yon knowI told you 1 could neither read nor write, forthat reafon, thefe cards an Twer my purpofe,as well as the beft Prayer-Book in England.IV. Prithee Jack, let me hear it out, I likethe beginning very well.y. Why then my Lord, when I look uponthefe four fuits of the cards, they prefent to methefe four principal religions that's predomin¬ant in the world, viz. Chriflianity, Judaifm,Maho-C 6 )Mahometanifsn and PaganU'm, when I lookover the twelve court cauls, they remind me ofthe twelve Patriarchs, from whom proceed thetwelve tribes !fr :e! the twelve Apo.dles, al¬io tliC twelve article:, of the Chrifti m faith inwhich 1 am bound to believe, When 1 lookon the King, it reminds me of the allegiancedue to his Majefty : via n i look upon theQueen, it rtinind.s me of the allegiance due toher Majefiy ; then when I look-upon the ten,it puts me in mind of the ten cities in theplains of Sodcin and Gomorrah, deftroyedwith hre and brimflone Irotn heaven, the tenplagues of Egypt, with which God afBifledthe Egyptians, when lie brought the childrenof Ifrael out of that land ; r.:fo the ten com-mandments, and the ten tribes of Ifrael whichwere cut off for their wickedneff ; when 1lock upon the nine, it puts me in mind ofthe nine Hierarchies, the nine mules, r.nd thenine noble orders amongll men ; when I lookupon the eight, it reminds me of the eightBeatitudes, the eight Altitudes, the eight per¬rons faved in Noah’s Ark, the eight pc,Ionsmentioned in feripture to be releafed from,death to life ; when 1 lock upon the feven itputs me in mind oh the feven adminiflering[pints that Hand before the throne of God,the feven ieals with which the book of life isfealed, the feven angels with the feven vials,filled with the indignation of the Lord, whichthey were to plague the earth with, as men¬tioned in the Apocalyps of St. John, the fe¬ven liberal arts and fciences, given by God{ 7 )for the inftruclion of man, the fcven wondersof the world, the feven planets that rule thefeven days of the week ; the fix puts me iiimind of the fix petitions contained in theLprci's Prayer, the fix days of the week thatI hate to work, for my bread, and that I amappointed to keep the feventh holy *, the fiveputs me in mind of the five fenfes given byGod to man ‘viz, hearing, feeing, feeling,tailing and fmelling ; the four puts me inmind of the four theological virtues, the fourEvangeliils, the four lad things. Death Judge¬ment, Heaven and Hell, and the four leafcnsinfo which God hath divided and difpofedthe year, for the ufe of man, viz. Spring,Summer, Autumn and Winter: the threeputs me in mind of the Trinity, in whichare three diitiiycl Perfons co-equal and co-eter¬nal, it alio puts me in mind of the three daysthat Jonas was in the whale's belly, and.three hours our Saviour hung upon the crofs,the three days that he lay interr’d in the bow¬els of the earth ; the two puis me in mind crthe two Teftaments, the Old and New, con¬taining the Law and Gofpel, the two con-| trary principles flruggiing hi man, viz Virtueand Vice ; then my Lord, when I look upon-i. ‘C ace, it puts me in mind, I've only oneGod to adore and fevve one faith to Relieve"| one truth t > praftde, one baptifm to cleanfc.jme from original fin, and only one mailer tolerve and obey.N. Very well, Jack, I can’t fay hut you con-ven your cards to a very good ufe, but nowIp, r-( 8 )1 perceive there is one particular card in thepack you have not explained to me.y. Whar is that my Lord ?//. Jack, when you were fhuffling the cards-,you pall from the Queen to the ten and laid'by the Knave, doth it put you in mind of no¬thing ?y. That is ri^ht, my Lord l had like tohave forgot, when I look upon the Knave, itputs me in mind of your Lord-hip N. What, villain, do you count me a Knavebefore my face ?y. No my Lord, you mifapprehend me 5 Imean your Lordlhip’s informer.N. If fo Jack, 1 freely forgive you 5 ’tispretty well turned.On which the Nobleman was fo well plead¬ed with the ready turns of wit and humourwhich he found in Jack, that he preferr dhim to the higheft place in his fervice, dou¬bled his wages, and difeharged the informer,who foon after died, and the following Epi¬taph was fet over his grave.EPITAPH.CTAT, Reader, and pifs here, for it is/aid,l ' Under this Jione a fly informer's laid,■ Who fhtdied nothing all his life throughout.But mifchief, till his own dejlrufiion wrought,, }]is neighbour's ill was what he chiefly fought. _If Heav'n be pleas'd, when Mortals ceofe to Jin ;jf He// be pleas'd, when Villains enter in :■ Qr Earth be pleas'd, when it entombs a Knave,Sure all are pleas'd—the Rogue is in bis grave.F I N I