Tim HISTORYOFJO€K HAXTON.TO WHICH IS ADDEDtOFFEE AND COFFEE• HOUSES.A STORY FROM PORTUGUESE LIFE,MAJOR CARTWRIGHT.FORTUNE TELLING BY THE GROUNDS 01A TEA OR COFFEE CUP.KE WTON=STE WAR T :PRINTED, AND SOLD WHOLESALE ANDDETAIL, BY J. M'NAIRN./floi gra airrMOTXkH jVJOITiH fi T OflS faOT? A:mv>\siNrvsiKO%Q (J/UOJfO nHT Yfl Dl1 U J3T SHUT510msvM'V. x va ^iatshJOCK H AX TON.ToiVAUDs the middle of last centuryjthere lived, at no great distance iVorn us, ina neighbouring county, an eccentric tel loirof the name of h axton. Many amusinganecdotes are told of him ; and few perhaps,in the district in which he lived, werei oftener, to u-e a common phrase, in the| mouth of the country. It is difficult now toi form a correct estimate of his character,t hut, so far as we have been able to discover,f lie had displayed many of the eccentricitiesI of genius, and not little of its power Hisi imagination was fertile, his elocution easy1 and unaffected, and Ids ideas always wild,f and not unfrerpicntly original. He p asses-| sed the power of mimickry to an extent but1 rarely paralleled, and his memory, wheni compared with that of other ordinary men,seemed absolutely perfect. With such fac¬ulties, Jock I lax ton w'as obviously no ord¬inary character, and under proper trainingmight, it is possible, have been raised to| eminence. But nature had not he.en equal-4ly prodigal in every power ; ft.r he seemedendowed with a superabundance of sometalents at the expense of others of greateruse. He possessed, indeed, some of theconstituents of genius, and these, it may he,important ones ; but his mind wanted thateconomy among its faculties, that adapt¬ation of one to all, which, far more than theprominence of any singly, are to he regard- |ed as the real constituents of power. Tak- |ing his character as a whole, it was evident¬ly defective, inasmuch as he was a subjectrather of wonder than esteem, rl his was,to he sure, in a moral, not an intellectualview ; and it may perhaps he objected, thatJock’s country contemporaries were butindifferently qualified to judge of anythingbesides the bearings of conduct on the or¬dinary business of life. In common withmany men whose claim to genius is indis¬putable, Jock’s life was without an aim.Finding, however, that wit, though it mightoccasionally procure him fame, was in hiscase of little service m securing a liveli¬hood, he was compelled, reluctantly enoughwe may presume, to betake himself tosome occupation. To hard labour he hadalways a marked aversion, and showed nolittle ingenuity in evading it. His friendssuggested a trade, but-they would have iit a matter of difficulty to reconcile him toa life of passive obedience, and bodily re¬straint. Fortunately tor Jock, bis powersof invention were known so far to surpassthose of execution—in other words, hishead had so far the advantage of his hands,that there was not perhaps a master in allhis neighbourhood who would have takenhim for an apprentice. His school pranks,too, would have presented an insuperablebarrier to an amicable arrangement in thisway. There he had been the darling otbis school-fellows, but the plague of hismaster. Naturally reckless of punish-i merit, and apparently ignorant of the pro-| priety of restraint, it was impossihle toper-< suade, and not easy to deter him. Thek moral influence of a flogging, on most oc-t eassions subsided with the smart, and hisI resolutions of propriety— if indeed he form¬ed any—rarely out-lived the first eppor-1 tunity that occurred to break them. Offuturity, if he had ever heard, lie neverthought, and bis conduct seemed the resultot an unconscious induction, winch mostpeople would consider as not less inconven¬ient than erroneous— that an immediategratification ought not to be forborne outof any regard to the consequences. Thei gratification, it is probable, he would think■ta$ cc-rhiint and the ineovenience• cordin-or at all events remote. Witii himtuc df.y was sufficient for the evil of it ”; nd s6far all was well; only ho at times< ehfrived— as other people thought sonne-v hat indiscreetly—to crowd into the com-I ass of a single day, a few items of annoy¬ance beyond its actual share. Under alltlit'se ciicumstances, Jock was destined tora packman—a sort of life to which he felti ss aversion than almost any other.tn pretty exact proportion to the kindnesscf the childieh,yyas Jock doomed in thekitys of Ins boyhood to experience the hos-f-’ity of the parents. Ilis convivial powers—if the expression is applicable at socnilypci iod of life, were acknowledged ; hutt ee poor fellow, it was sometimes insin-rafed; had more of jdeasantry than princip¬les and he was in consequence deharredcress, : ml that with no great ceremony,to hln ost every family in the ncighlumr-j »od. iJut the parents, as Ovid beautifullyexpress.'> it, (we forget the exact words off he ongirud, hut every pedant can quote((chiJr'.11had(‘ w hat it was impossdde topr. vc)it so that Jock still continued, afterid 1, the centre of attraction. Among otherfamilies, that of the minister was in his;Immediate vicinity. It consisted of threeor four fine boys, averaging pretty nearlybis own age. The minister, who was him¬self a remarkably well*disposed man, andanxious to bring up his bairns in the nur¬ture and admonition of the Lord, was nostranger to Jock’s principles and practices,and charged them, with an emphasis thatwent far to violate his characteristic suavityto avoid the ninnagate,s company as theyn ould a pestilence. It is but charitable toconclude that the youngsters were seriousin their promise of compliance. But thememory at that period of life, at least insuch matters as these, is generally somewhat treacherous, and as their punctualityi deqemled of course on their memory, it isnot surprising that the old gentlemani, should sometimes have caught them trip¬ping. They were lively vigorous fellow ',with a great deal more of feeling than re¬flection, and Jock might be said to possessthe key of their hearts. He c m id suithimself to every taste ; he could assumea character at will, and appear equally na¬tural equally fascinating in all. He hadmore than once had a manifestation of theminister’s displeasure through the mediumot a cane ora horsewhip ; but that was acasualty of rare occurrence, and Jock insuch cases had ingenuity enough to devise'8-some means of revenge. His power ofimitation was so pci feet that he could exposeTioe worthy gentleman to the very life ; andthere were idle people enow in the villagewho not unfrequently encouraged him. Itwas not unusual to see his own sons ap¬plauding this violation of their father’s dig¬nity, and all this whilst the worthy manwas in all probability studiously labouringto promote the spiritual interest of his peo¬ple. His walk and manner of address werefavourite subjects of Jock’s imitation ; andremarkable was his memory, that he notunfrequently gave an evening edition of thel ormon. Un such occasions it was some-I hing far beyond a mere paraphrase or looseharangue ; it was the identical discoursethey had heard delivered in the forenoon.The most acute among the second audience,could not detect the slightest alteration,cither in the manner or expression. Any-.light peculiarity—and few men are with¬out it—had its appropriate place : and so<naturally and with so much effect was itintroduced, that it was impossible to be¬hold it w ith anv gravity. To those whophad heard the original discourse, edificationwas lost; but a stranger might have listen¬ed with composure, and actually have de¬rived advantage. He could expose—as th*9rascal profanely expressed it—almost every’minister in the bounds with the same ef¬fect. In some cases, however, it was be¬yond his power; and he would himself re¬mark, that it was only when he could catchthe manner that he could recite the dis¬course. In all save the voice, and that atj the period of which 1 speak was too soft,i no one, who did not see him, could havehesitated to assert that he was actually theii minister.Many of his pranks about the manse fhave heard related in my early days, byii persons who knew him. Of most of these1 l have hut a faint recollection, but the fol-;j lowing, from its singularity, has not yetee-icaped me. One Saturday afternoon JockIjlhftd occupied his usual station in the min-inister’s peatneuh—usual station, hutnsuaJ,i be it remembered, only on the Saturdays.I On almost every other day he knew it wasunsafe to approach the manse at all. OnSaturday, however, his spiritual enemy wasat rest, and he felt himself, as he oftenboasted, always at home among boys andasses. The kitchen woman was bakingoread, and the hoys, whose appetite, as sheobserved, had that day yot the better oj their\nense, were teaz’mg her \'ov pieces. “Tak,Example,” said she“by Jock there; see if10Jock plagues fo’k for pieces as ye do.,," Deed,” said they with some shrewdness,Jock seeks pieces when he’s at hame asweel as we do ” “Nonsense!” said the girlFJi xefer’t to Jock himsel’ then. Jock, saidshe’ turning toward the neiik,“Y\\ wager,ye dinna seek pieces^ hame as they doc,“Not f,“said Jock promptly, “when f growhungry I tak rny granny’s head plaid andniak’ wings o’t and flee up to heav’n and getbread an* milk.” This, most unhapply forJock, produced an instantaneous peal oflaughter, which brought the minister downsjtairs. Finding Jock in thehewas at no loss to discover the origo malt,and turning to the maid with some sever*ity of aspect,\What,” said he, “has beenthe matter?** ’’Matter, sir, truly ii’s justthat gomeril Jock there, wi’ his nonsense.She then related Jock’s remark. Thegood man wns shocked at such profanity,and casting an eye of displeasure towardsthe rteuk where Jock sat—we may he surein no enviable condition—“Sirrah!’, saidhe,“I forbade ye this house.” Jock madeno reply, “But yc have not only offendedme, ye have insulted the Almighty By’.’this time he had begun to look round for aninstrument of castigation ; but finding noimplement of greater elasticity than theIIpoker, he was ujuler the necessity of re*turning to his study For a cane, and leavingJock in the charge of the maid. It iy,more than prohablethat the poor lass’s ft'el-ings had by this time begun to relent’ andthat she allowed Jock the means of escap¬ing ; be this as it may, when the ministerreturned the girl told him Jock bad brokenby her in spite of every exert on she couldmake to oppose his exit. Jock, though hehad escaped the punishment, boie the mi-! nister a grudge h*r his intention, and ayIsooti as he had reached the village, lie re¬lated the whole,affair to his unthinking ac-fsoeiates, in a tone and manner, we may he:i sure, that d;d no great credit to the worthy| e'ergyman.When ilaxton hud arrived at manhood,I he went about the country in the character'of a packman—a way of 1'de which, with,many in these days as in our own’ waylittle la tter than an apology for idleness.'! No man, perhaps, was ever hotter qualifiedthan Ilaxton for exhibiting his wares toadvantage, and relaxing the resolutions oja rigid economist hy his ridicule or wit.; He was, besides’ welcome to ]>(>t ho'.k asoften as In? chose to share it in all the ex¬tensive district he was aceostumed to tra¬verse. His powers of conversation were12of no moan order, and he had "a stock ofnews perhaps more extensive than hiswares, so that at a time when newspapersin remote districts were nearly unknown,.lock’s company for a night or two waslittle short of a luxury, he knew all pol¬itics and scandal, w hich the malice and in¬telligence of the country could supply ; andit was alleged, moreover, that he was notaltogether averse, on some occasions, toinvent, or at least strongly to emhdlish.With those qualities, Jock, for a time, wasin no ordinary degree popular. But it un¬fortunately happened, that his talent formimickry misled him ; and whilst relatingthe conversation of a subject, he never fad¬ed to hit of the manner also. These ex¬hibitions w ere, more amusing than safe:and he found that the very persons whowere the loudest to applaud his dexterity,were also the readiest afterwards to eschewhis company. They were willing enoughto laugh at their neighbours expense, buta moment's reflection convinced them,that they woul themselves be the victimsof his humour in their turn in the courseof a year or two he had become so oh.noxious, that in many houses he was re¬fused admittance. Happening at one timeto be benighted, he was'compelled to throw13himself upon the mercy of the inmates ofa house where he knew he would not bewell received ; but necessity has no law,and his invention had no bounds. He re¬solved on the attempt, trusting to the mo¬ment h r an answer to any objection thatmight be urged against him. In these timesformality was less regarded than now. Jockthreaded the narrowwith as muchdexterity as the awkward dimensions of hisburden would permit, and presented him-selfat the mid door, with ssmuch composureas if he had known he should he well re¬ceived. “Peace be here,” said he withconfidence. It was some time before ihecollyshavg, kicked up by the sheperds’ dogson the entrance of a stranger, had so farsubsided that he could announce his inten¬tion of bivouacking by the fire for a night“Na na, Jock, ye’s no be here.” “Whatfor?” said he. “Because,“ answered thegudeman, “last time ye war here, when yegaed away, ye said my prayer amang a’ then< ebour booses.” “U,” observed Jockwith indifference, “is that a’? If there’s.nocht mair against me than that, say naemair about it. I’ll tak’ the book mysel thenicht.“ ”V\eel Week Jock,” was thegudtman’s icply, “we’ll tak’ ye at yeVword ; let down ye’r pack, and come byhero to the langsettle” Jock took his seatbeside the godeman, and kept all in goodhumour til! supper time. When supperwas ended, the gudeman reminded him ofhis pro mise. Jock was no way avei'se—he siing, and read, and prayed. To the as¬tonishment of every one who heard him,he gave the gudeman’s prayer word, forword though he had not heard it tor atwelvemonth before. “Now,” said he, when,he had finished, “I got it here, an’ Ihceleft it here, an’ if it’s no* a glide ane,g'udeman, it’s ye’r aiu fa’t.”COFFEE AND COFFEE-HOUSES.The native country of the coffee plant issuppose 1 to he Persia; but this circum-stance, as .veil as the era and the mode ofthe introduction of the use of coffee, restson very doubtful authority. It is certain,however, that about the middle of the fif¬teenth ceritijiy., it was generally drunk hiArabia, an l that in the following century,(he pilgiims who returned from Meecaand Medina, introduced and spread its\5ii use in mos,‘, Mahometan countries, not-1 withstanding it was expresly prohibited hySoliman li. 'I he dervises and other devo¬tees contended, that it was serviceable tothem in a religions point of vijw, by en-I ahling them to pass the night in prayeri1 without being overcome hy sleep. In 15^3,i it gave rise to very serious and elaboratei discussions among the the Mahometani doctors of Cairo: at first it was prohibited,> on the ground that produced intoxicationt and excitvM improper feelings ; but the at-t tempt to carry the prohibition into effect| caused such a violent commotion in the> city, that it was allowed to he drunk withl impunity. At Constantinople, also, thei introduction of the use of coffee was op-i posed hy the Mahometan doctors, hut on dif-li ferent grounds. Mahomet, it seems hadi had denounced char coal as a prohibited> article of food, and they contended, thatroasted coffee must he included in theprohibition ; the coffee houses were ac-) cordingly shut up, hut a more liberal Mufti; permited them to be re-opened ; political1 reasons were then assigned for again:: shuting them up, as they were ailedged\ to be the haunts of the vicious andi the disaffected. The fact seems to have( been, that men of learning, especially poets1Gand subsequently oilier persons of rankand influence, frequented the coffee housesto the desertion of the mosques. Hithertocoffee-houses were confined to the east,and it is not easy to determine exactlywhen their use was introduced intoEurope. Pietro de !u Valle, writing fromConstantinople in 161.5, say, that whenhe returns to Italy he will biing some cof¬fee with him; whether he did or not can¬not he ascertained ; but in 1644-, it wascertainly introduced into Marseilles ; in1G60, a considerable quantity was import¬ed from Egypt into that city ; and in iG/ l,a coffee-house was opened in it. In 1657Thevenot brought a small quantity toParis ; its use however was confined tothose persons who had been in the Levantand their friends. Its general introductionand firm establishment in France, werebrought about in a manner truly charac¬teristic of the inhabitants of that country.In I069, an ambassador from the Portearrived at Paris, who rendered himself veryfashionable, as well as a great favourite,by bis politeness, gallantry, and wit ; per¬sons ofiauk, ^specially ladies, visited him:to them he gave coffee; and thus a bitterand black beverage, which, prescribed bya Frenchman, would have been rejected17with disgust, became a favourite and fash*ionable liqueur, simply from the circum*tance that it was presented by a Turk of wit,and gallantry The rage for coffee havingbeen thus spread an Armenian of thename of Pascal took advantage of it, andin 1972, opened a coffee-house in Paris ;but in consequence of the very inferiormanner in which it was fited up, and thelow company admjted, his scheme did notsucceed. Procopius, a Florintine, prc-oeiving the erroj’, fited up a fine appart-inent, and having already acquired a re¬putation among the epicures by the intro¬duction of ices iiito Paris, his* coffee-house'met with great encouragement. In lG7b>their number in this city was so .great,that it was deemed necessary to form fhocoffee house keepers into a company, Withwith peculiar ordinances for their regul¬ation. One very beneficial consequenceresuited from the general and fashionableuse of coffee in Paris ; in the seventeenihcentury, habits of intoxication prevailed,even among the higher classes, who werenot ashamed to frequent the cabarets in]>rn ties for the purpose of this degradingdebauch. Louis XIV. in vain had exertedIds imiuence, directed his indignation, andappealed to the love and respect of his sub-ISk'ds for their grand monarque to put downtins practice : what lie could not do, Pro+copius and tlie otlier coffee-keepers aeiconipiished. rrhe cabarets M’ere desertedby men of letters; the coffee-houses te-c une the places of their resort, and atthis period, Saurin, La Mothe, Danchet,B iadin, J. B. Bousseau, &c., met there,and planned or composed some of theirmost celebrated pieces. For someyearsafterthe introduction ofcoffeeinto France it wasdrunk after the oriental mode, wilhoutmilkor sugar. The first kind of cafe an laitwhs made by boiling the coffee iu milk.In 1683, Mad. Sevigne, in a letter to herdaughter, advised her to use a little milkwith her coffee, in imitation of the practiseof the lYIarquesse de la Sahlicre, who beingin a delicate state of health* had begun toii'C milk in her tea. In KifK), Madamedo Sevigne herself adopted the practise,which she thus describes and praises ina letter from her seat at Rochers in Bre¬tagne. “ >Ve have here good milk amigood cows: we have taken the whim {Jan-taisbe) to cream this good milk, and to mixit with sugar and good coffee. My dearchild it is an excellent thing, and fromwhich during Lent I receive great comfortDu Bois (her physician) approves of it furwcold in the head, and disorders in thelungs.” The practice of Madame de Sc.A fgnc prevailed, and her mode of makingcafeav lait was substituted instead of theorigional mode. rl he use of coffee wasintroduced into London rather sooner thaninto Paris ;the first coffee house havingbeen opened in 1652, in George yard Lom¬bard street, l.y a Greek servant of Mi-Lid wards, a Turkey merchant’. The Dutchfirst brought the coffee plant into Europefrom their settlement in Patavia, whitherthey had introduced it from Mocha in16(J0. In 1/14, the Burgomaster ofAmsterdam sent two plants to Louis XIV. ;this monarch committed them to the careof Dcsdieux, who was going out as governorto Martinique. On his voyage, water Lavingbecome extremely sc; rec, 1 0 deprivedhimself daily of a part of his Omit allow¬ance, in order to keep t he cefee j hintsalive : they arrived in good condition, amiaie saiil to have been the parents of allthe codec plants since euiiivated in theIndian Islands. IIumliolt computes thatthe quantity of ceffee annually eonsumedin Europe amounts to 115,!)71,000 poundsavoirdupois ; and that the consumption ofL'rance is 230,000 quintals.A STORY FROM PORTUGUESE.LIFE,A Portuguese gentleman, returning onenight to Lisbon from Sana vein, heard, as hewas passing near a vineyard, the moans ofa female in apparent suffering. He im¬mediately proceeded to the spot, where hefound a young and apparently lovely femalein labour, who implored his assistance,which- he unhesitatingly afforded lo thebest of his power. She afterwards conjured ban, by every thing that was sacred, tocarry the new horn babe to the Roda, in thatcity; to this he also consented. Thedarkness of the night, and the care whichshe had taken to conceal her features inthe best way possible, prevented bis beingaide to recognise her positively. But bisauriosity, however, was so much excitedthat he followed her at a convenient distance unpreceived, and saw her enter agentleman’s quinta not far of; he eoncluded, therefore that she was th ^ daughter ofthe house ; and he was not mistaken.The interest she had excited in him was sointense, (for this nation are not fastidiousin these matters,) that for a long time be‘21made that road his favourite ride, in orderto enjoy the happiness of seeing her at herwindow. She had not the most distantidea that he was the person who hadrendered her so essential a service ; andshe, therefore, concluded, that no beingwas acquainted with the shame to which,as it afterward appeared, the villany otherconfessor had exposed her. The gentle¬man’s addresses were, therefore favourablyreceived, and she was soon afterwardsunited to him. About twelve months aftertheir marriage, she was about to presenthim with the first pledge of their love : ande very anxious preparation was made torthe event. But her caprices were so manyand so great, that they outran the tenderestsolicitude ; and after having in vain,endeavoured to satisfy every strange fancyand whim, with all the devotion whichthe most indulgent of husbands couldevince, he was at last provoked beyondpatience to exclaim, that “ she had beenmuch less scrupulous when he assistedher in the vineyard.” This indiscreetand unlucky sarcasm, at so critical amoment, had a fatal effect; it threw herinto violent convulsions, under which sheexpired, leaving him long to lament theimprudence and rash irritation of a mom¬ent.MAJOR CARTWRIGHT.He never rose later than six, either winteror summer, and frequently got up muehsooner, and lighted his own fire, At eighta cup of coffee or ot chocolate was broughthim, and t twelve he breakfasted. Therest of tied y, except during his occasionalwalks, wl ich he took without any regardto weather, he was employed in writing orconversing with those who called on him ;and as he never denied himse.f to anyperson, it may be easily believed that hehad numerous visits. Though on someoccasions this unguardedness was produclive of inconvenience, it enabled him to beof essential service to many distressed anddeserving individuals. In or were hisexertions limited to any party for where hecould benefit pr oblige a fellow creature,no difference in his opinion could even fora moment repel the impulse of his graciousnature. Neither he nor his medical advis.ers ever anticipated his living to so ad¬vanced an age, and he was wont to relate,with much humour, an anecdote uf anapothecary, who, on feeling his pulse,told him with an omnious shake of thehead, .that “the vital principle was very23feeble in liis frame.” He lived, howeverlong enough to prove the fallacy of thisiirid many other progno^ties Of a like natureand w heii on his deathbed, be more thanonce expressed Iris surprise that “at 84years of age, he should still have so muchstrength left, and should find it so hard todie.FORTUNE TELLING BY THEGROUNDS of a TEA or COFFEE CUP.To pour out the Tea or Coffee Grounds :—Pour the grounds of tea or coffee into awhite cup and shake them well about in itso that their particles may cover the surfaceof the whole cup, then inverse it into thesaucer, that all the superfluous parts maybe drained, and the figures required forfortune telling be formed. ,ri he person that acts the fortunetellermust always bend his thoughts upon himor her that wish to have their fortunes toldand upon their rank and proffession, inorder to give plausidility to their predic¬tions. It is not to be expected upon tak-ing up the cups, that the figures will he asaccurately represented as they are in thepack, and it is quite sufficient if they bearsome resemblance to any of the thirty twoemblems": ami the more fertile the fancyshall be of the person inspecting the cup,the more will be discover in it.In other respects, every one who takesa pleasure in this amusement, must himseltbe a judge under what circumstances he isto make changes in point of time, speakingjust as it suits in the present, the past, orthe future : in the same manner, their in¬genuity ought to direct them when *to>peak more or less pointedly and determin-4itely with regard to sex.