Watty’s Travels to Carslile, in Search orA PLACE.rTo which are added.j WILL YE GO to the TROSACHS,Blue Bonnets over the Border.Down the Burn Davie.PAISLEY :Printed by G. Caldwell.182G• V. ••Wat tv’s Travkls To Carlislju Tn Se April(If a Pi.aCe.Gin ye.ask wberr I come frae, I come frae lVI’si<!e,Whar FailicJ' awl Mitlicr and Fanest .folks bide,a'/ty sweetlitari, yutle bless ter, sbe thouglit nanelike mo.(Spoken.)—Fareiveel, Watty, for 11! ne’er see-ye mrdr—bout, quo ,!, woman, ye need na gowluiat way.For Tn:iyl;e'»r long. l il be fnaister mysei’,•So wo ;> n.’ed,' ami I took the last look o’ ths Fell.O'er my sboutlier my bundle I srtlrcely bad fung,'Vhen Colly, pair fallow, be after me sprung,The pair doited creature, be fawn ed ct my fit,As if to say, Watty, we roaunna part yet.Then at Carlisle I stood wi’ a slrae in my mouth,Naa doubt they took me for a prouiisisg youth.f \(Spoken;)*-fC the 'wives came rinsing roundme in dusters, saving, What wages d’ ye ask, cau-ny lad?—What wages •do I ask, says I ; 'IwaPound s..h1 a .Crown.; I winna bate ;i ! air o’ mybeard down o’t^-Wlmt can you do ? says anitlier..Do, quo’ I, Dod I ran saw, nspw, plougli, dig,iousk a l;Vre, sing a Pealin if JJavW, clar.ce a horn*pipe, niok a mare’s taft. ca’ tie kirn, hunt a brock,or fight onytancp’ my weight .in V Cniigiston Fa-rieh.When we parted, the very tear gush’d frae her e’e.There, »n auld bearded cummer, she ca’d me.iitv.uiau ! , ,I Eiay say from that day a’d my sorrows began.First Colly, puir fallow, they Banged in the streetSvrw? skiii’d him and taint’d it for shoon to their fee-,1 cried, but t’iiey ea’d me a half-witted clown,And they banter’d me sa.ir, sair up and down.JSIttit my mistress and me, we ne'er could gr>eweel, -!J’or her hard frosty looks would lute frighted tFedell.| . , - ■(Spoken.)—For she had aboard, by a the tvori 1i it minded me o' a billy goat, wi’ a kail dried frostyi face—Na, the smallest leg o’ mutton in a Carlisl*"market would hae Hair'd her, the eat, and me, fora week; Dod, the very fo’k said we were tumenodious. The weans would hae come to the door,cud. made she a noise, it might hae waken'd a cOrp;I would hae gaen to the door and opeu’d it to them,but they would hae cast stour in my een, and cried,Daft Watty, daft Watty ; when I saw that,I pacht up my elaes, ■frhen my quarter was out,vl i’ rfry wage in my pocket 1 saunter’d about.My left ban’ 1 reek pocket they pickt in a fray,And my fifteen white Shillings they stole quiteaway,! Resides my twa letters f.iae Mitliar and Nan ;Says the Carlisle lassies, We’ll Watty trapan.( Spoken.forgers comes up to me, andrays, Watty, will ye sign your name? Faith, say a5, ye’ve gotten thg wrang sow by the lug; for, Lord?I canna write, Then’ a braw fallow comes up tomt, aad says, Watty, will ye list? We'll eitliermak' ye. a General or a Gotneral. A Gaoeral or aGomel*!! na, faith says I, I’ll be nana o’ them;I’M rather wear a coat o’ my Mither s aia spkmia’yet.And wi' my two groats and twapence I’ll toddlehame, ^And I'll ne’er be a soger while Watty’s my nameHow my Father will goul, and my Mither wiltstare.When I toll them poor Colly they’ll nerer sea inais?They’ll ban’ me a stool; as for Nan, she'll borfain, |In hopes ne’er to part wi’ bar Watty agaia.For the barn, the byre, and the anld hallow ttee.Will a’ seem as cronies whan tidgin’ to see.(Spoken.)—Bat the sheep *11 no ken Watty'sToice now. And for the auld pent stack wo anewran about, it will a’ be byrnt down by this time ,nnd as fer Nanny, paor thing ! she’ll be married orbroken-hearted. But if a’ was at Cralgleton at Iwould ba’ot, they’ll be sh: aaun’ and drinkin’, snuff¬in’, loupin’, Jumpin', and daaoin’, and singin’, til! a'be blue about us.Then among my ouid ftiea’s flic, woa’ers I'll toll;Sae I'll awa hama, and TU near loare the Fal.WILL YE GO TO THE TROSACIIS...., - , ;. > yfl.*. ■ 'OaiaiNAi.,Tyxs,—WM ye goto the *Hwe JSughti, Ktrion‘Will ye go to tbe Troaachfi, my Marjr,Awl sail ’cross- Loch Katrine sse blue,Tiere i^eture’a wild grandetM-, nay Mary,I* seen from the tall Ben Venue:Sublime is the scene, when at mornisg,Tlfi sub stniios on new born dayI>is(>elluig the mists and adoming1 he lofty Ben Ann with his ray.The doe leaves his leaf cover’d dwelliftyThe glens a»d the mountains to roam;The bantsman liis biigle ia swelling,When leaving at morning hw home.When the sun, rising high in his glory,Sheds lustre and brightness sublime.We'll wander ’mid rocks wild and hoary,Nor think ou. the swiftness of time.Ere the shades of the ev’ning approach us.Again to the mountains we’ll stray,Ami there on the lofty Ben Ledie,Bid adieu to the glories of day.Come then to the Trosachs, my Mary,And sail mi Loch Katrine wi’ mo sTho scenes are delightful, my Mary,But more so enliven’d by thee.Blub Bonnets Over The Bor&er.March, march, Ettrick and TevioUlala,Why the deil dinna ye march forward in ordviMarch, march, Eskdale and Liddesdale,A’ the blue honnetk nro bo and for the Border.Many a banner f=prPHt!,flutters above your Iseail,Many a crest that is famous in story,Meant; and make ready then.Softs' of ike mdiintain glen,k’i-bi for the Queen and oaf old' Scottish glory !March, J iyrc.h, Softs of Dumfries-shire,Vi i-vtou and Galloway march in good orderM-’ich. inarch, Nithsdale and Annandale,A' the blue bonnets afe hound for the Border.Claymores are drawing mow,Scotia’* sons bend the hew ;Stand U> your arms then, and match in goodOl d-S';March every .Scottish dan,Tell illca SoutheranThat the blue bonnets are over the Border.Come froic the hills vdLete your hirsels -are grasc*ing,Come front the glen of the buck ami the n r ;C«uae to thd rt'ug where the beacon is blazing,Coroe with the buckler, the lance, auJ the now.Trflmpets an* sounding,War-steeds are bounditi'g,Stand to your aims then, and march in goodorder; 'lirfginmb shall many a dayTell of the bJyyd)’ Cay,When the blue bonnets came over the Bonier.SIR WALTER SCjpTJl7DO WN THE BURN D A VIE*WHEN trees did bad, and fields were gi'esrr.And broom bloom'd fair to sec*;When .VIai y was, complete fifteen,And love laugh,d in her eye;Blyth Davie’s blinks her heart did mov»To sjieak her mind thus free,(lung down the burn. Davit, lore.And I shall follow thee.Now Davie did each lad surpass,Tkat dwelt, on this burn-side,-And Mary was the bonniest lass,Just meet to be a bride ;Her cheeks were rosy, red, and white,Her een were bonny blue ;II er looks were like Aurora bright.Her lips like dropping dew,As down the burn they took their way,What tender tales they said !His cheeks to her’s they aft did lay,And with her bosom play’d ;Till baivh at length impatient grown,To be mair fully blest,In yonder vale they lean’d them down ;Love oidy saw the rest.What pass’d I guess was harmless play,And tieatb,ing sura unmeet;8For, gauging name, I heard them ssy,They lik'd a vrauk sae sweet;And that they aften sliou'd returnSic pleasure to renew.Quoth Mary, Love, 1 like the bum.And ay shall follow yon.FINIS.4*