A ChoiceDrop of HONEYFROM THERock CHRIST:OR, A SHORTWORD of ADVICETO ALLSAINTS and SINNERS.By T HO. WILCOCKS.2&*&z &&%i *&?&* £&'&*&&iT O T H EREADER.Hrijlian Reader, Ifinding in this lat¬ter Day, the here of the LORDfinning, in fionie meafure, •with hrpleafant Beams in my Heart, wann¬ing my Afifettions, enfianiing my Soul,not only to give a fpiritual Echo' inSoul Duty, to fio great a l over as mySaviour is, •whofe tranfcendent Lovefaffeth Knowledge, Eph. 3. 19. But alfio the lovingand wifising well to all Sion’s Heaven-horn Children ;for I find in this Day, many poor Souls tojfed to andfro,wady to he carried away with every Wind of Doftrine,ly the Sleights of Men, and cunning Craftinefs, wherebythey lie in wait to deceive, Ephef. 4. 14. And thatthere are fo many Foundations to build upon that arefdlfe, upon which much Labour is fpcnt in vain,that Menare not fpeaking the Truth in Love; neither are they' growing up into him in ~all Things, which is the Headi 'Chrifi, Ephef, 4. 1J. there cannot beagrowing inChrifi;without an Union in hint, all that we do is cur fed :Thou wilt find therefore. Gentle Reader, in this enfuingJit tie Treatife, if the Lord is pleafed to bl.efs the ReadingivTo the READER.of it unto thee, as a fill Voice behind thee, faying. Till5is the Way, walk in it, that thou turn not to the Righ1Hand, nor to the Left j For the'Way into that pieafantPath of Soul JnJlification before God, is in and throughthe Righteoufnefs of Jefus Ghrift, for all our Self-Righ-teoufnefs is as filthy Rags ; for furely Jhall one fay. Inthe Lord fhall all the Seed of Ifrael be juftified, andfhallglory, Ifa. 2 J, 24, 25. It is only the Dying of thatJuft One for us unjuft ones, mtift bring its to God: Hethat knew no Sin, •was made Sin for us, that we that•were nothing but Sin, might be' made the Righteoufnefsof God in him, 2 Cor. 5. 21.ChrilHan Reader, Let all that is of Old Adam inthee fall down at the Feef of Ckrift : He only muft havethe Preheminence ; all the Vejfels of this new fpi ritual.Hew Covenant Temple, from the Cups to the Flagons,muft be all hung upon Chrift; he is to bear the Glory, forhe only is worthy, for he is to build the Temple -of the' Lord, arid is to bear the Glory ; He, fiy his Father s Ap¬pointment, is the FoundationStone, Cornef Stone, and isthe Top Stone; He is the Father’s Fulnefs ofGraceand•Glory; Whatever thy Wants be, thou tnayft come to him,there's Ealfam enough in hint, fit for Cute,Reader, The good Lord help thee to experience thitenfuing Word of Advice; that it may be made by God un¬to thee tike Honey, fweet to the Soul, and health to thyBones, and my Soul Jhall rejoice with thee. Thy Brotherin the Faith and Fellowjbip of the Gofpel,Tho. Wilcocks.( 5 )AChoice Drop of H o n e yFrom theRock Christ.A Word of Advice to my own Heart and thine:Thou art a Profeffor, and pamkeit of all Ordi¬nances ; thou doft well, they are glorious Privileges.But if thou haft not the Blood of Chrift-at the Root ofthy Profeffion, it will wither, and prove but paintedPageantry to go to Hell in.If thou retain Guilt, Self-Righteoufnefs under it,thofe Vipers will eat out all the Vitals of it at length.T'ry and examine with greateft Striftnefs every Day,what. Bottom thy Profeflion and thy Hope of Glory isbuilt upon, whether it was laid by the Hand of Chrift;if not, it will never be able to endure the Storm thatmiift come againft it. Satan will throw it all down,and great will be the Fall thereof. Mat. 7. 27.Glorious Profeflbr, Thou lhalt be winnowed; eve¬ry Vein of thy Prbfeflion will be tried to purpofe:’Tis terrible to have it all come tumbling down, andto find nothing but it to bottom upon.Soaring Profeffor, See to thy wa^en Wings betimes,which will melt with the Heat of Temptation. Whata Mifery is it, to trade much and break at length, add6 A Choice Drop of Honeyhave no Stock, no Foundation laid for Eternity, in thySoul.Gifted Prbfeflor ! Look there be not a Worm at theRoot that will fpoil all thy fine Gourd, and make itdie about thee, in a Day of Scorchings: Look over thy_ Soul daily, and aflc. Where is the Blood of Chrift to befeen upon my Soul ? What Righteoufnefs is it that IHand upon to be faved ? Have I got off all my Self-Righteoufnefs ? Many eminent Profeffors have comeat length to cry out, in the fight of the Ruin of alltheir Duties, Undone, Undone, to all Eternity.Confider the greateft Sins may be hid under the great-eft Duties, and the greateft Terrors. See the Woundthat Sin hath made in thy Soul be perfedtly cured bythe Blood of Chrijl; not Ikinncd over with Duties, Rum¬blings, Enlargements, <bc. Apply what thou wilt be-fides the Blood of Chrift, it'will poifon the Sore. Thouwilt find that Sin was never mortified truly; that thouhaft not feen Chrift bleeding for thee upon the Crofs;Nothing can kill it, but the beholding of Chrift’sRighteoufnefs.Nature can afford no Balfam fit for Soul Cure.Healing'from Duty, and not from Chrift, is the moft.defperate Difeafe, poor ragged Nature with all its high-eft Improvements, can never fpin a Garment fine .enough(without Spot) to cover the Soul’s Nakednefs. Nothingcan fit the Soul for that ufe, but Chrift’s perfect Right¬eoufnefs.Whatfoever is of Nature’s fpinning muft be all unra¬velled, before the Righteoufnefs of Chrift can be puton; whatfoever is of Nature’s putting on,Satan will comeand plunder it every rag away, and leave the Soul nak¬ed and open to the Wratn of God. All that Nature cando, will never make up the leaft Dram of Grace, thatcan mortify Sin, or look Chrift in the Face one day.Thou art a Profeffor, goeft on Hearing, Praying, -and Receiving, yet miftyable mayeft thou be. Lookabout thee, didft thou ever yet fee Chrift to this Dayfrom the Rock Cbrijl. 7in diftinftion from all other Excellencies and Right-Confnefs in the World, and all them falling beforetheMajefty of his Love and Grace ? Ifa. 2. 17.If thou haft feen Chrift truly, thou haft feen pureGrace, pure Righteoufnefs in him, every way infinite,far exceeding all Sin and Mifery! If thou haft feenChrift, thou canrt trample upon all the Righteoufnefsof Men and Angels, fo as to bring thee into acceptationwith God. If thou haft feen Chrift, thou wouldeft notdo a Duty without Him for ten thoufand Worlds, 1 Cor.2. 2. If ever thou faweft Chrift, thou faweft him a Rock,higher than Self-righteoufnefs, Satan and Sin, Pfal. 61.2. and this Rock doth follow thee, 1 Cor. 10. 4. and therewill be continual Droppings of Honey and Grace out ofthat Rock to fatisfy thee, Pfal. 81. 16. Examine if everthou haft beheld Chrift as the only-begotten of the Fa¬ther, full of Grace and Truth, John 1. 14, 16, 17.Be fure thou alt come to Chrift, that thou ftandeft uponthe Rock of Ages, haft anfwered to his Call to thy Soul,haft clofed with him for Juftification.Men talk bravely of Believing, whilft whole and found.Few know it. Chrift is the Myftery of tne Scripture;Grace the Myftery of Chrift. Believing is the mollwonderful Thing in the World. Put any thing of thineown to it, and thou fpoileft it; Chrift will not fo muchas look at it for Believing. When thou believeft andcomeft to Chrift, thou muft leave behind thee thy ownRighteoufnefs, and bring nothing but thy Sin, (O thatis hard) leave behind all thy Holinefs, Sanctification,Duties, Rumblings, ire. and bring nothing but thyWants and Miferies, elfe Chrift is not fit for thee, northou for Chrift. Chrift will be a pure Redeemer andMediator, and thou muft be an undone Sinner, or ChrHland thou wilt never agree; it’s the hardeft Thing in theWorld, to take Chrift alone for Righteoufnefs 1 that’s toacknowledge him Chrift. Join any thing to him of thyown, and thou un-Chrifts him.Whatever comes m when thou goeft to God for ac¬ceptation.8 A Choke Drop of Do?ieyceptation, (befid'es Chrift) call it Anticjirift* bid it begofte; make only Chi ill’s Righteouftiele t riumphant:All befides. that is Babylon, which muft fall, if Chrift ;Hand, and thou {halt rejoice in the Day of the Fallthereof, Tfa. i. lo, xi, 12. Chrift alone did treadthe Wine-prefs, and there was none, with him. If a.63.3. If thou join any Thing to Chrift, Chrift willtrample upon it in Fury and Anger, and ftain his Rai¬ment with the Blood thereof. Thou thinkeft it eafy tobeEeve; was ever thy Faith tried with an Hour of |Temptation, and a thorough fight of Sin ? was it everput to gjrapple with Satan, and the Wrath of God lying »upon the ConfcieKce ? When thou waft in the mouth ofHell and the Grave, then did God Ihew thee Chrift aRanfom, a Righteoufoefs, <bc. Then couldft thou fay.Oil fee Grace enough in Chrifl ; tliou mayft fay thatwhich is the biggeft Word in the World, •Tfoa Believ^fl.Uhtried Faith is uncertain Faith.To believing there muft go a clear ConvifHon of Sin,and the Merits of the Bipod of Chrift, and of Chrift’s iWillingnefs to fave upon this Confideration mecrly, Thatthou art a Sinner ; Things all harder than to make a :World. All the Power in Nature cannot get up fo high .in a Storm of Sin and Guilt, really to believe there is *any Grace, any Willingnefs in Chrift to fare. When.Satan chargeth Sin upon the Confcience, then for theSoul to charge it upon Chrift, that is Goipel-like.—That is to make him Chrift, he ferves for that Ufe. Toaccept Chrift’s Righteoufnefs alone, his Blood alone forSalvation, that is the Sum of the Gofpel. When theSoul in all Duties and Diftrefles, can fay, Nothing butChrift, Chrift alone, for Righteoufnefs, Juftification, Re¬demption, 1 Cor. i. 30. not Rumblings, not Duties, notGraces, &c. that Soul hath got above the Reach of theBillows.All Temptations, Satan’s Advantages, our Complain¬ings, are laid in Self-Righteoufnefs, and Self-Excellency:God purfueth thefe, by fetting Satan upon thee (asLabanfrom the Rock Chrijl. 9Laban did Jacob for his Images) thefe muft be orafrom thee (be as unwilling as thou wilt) thefe hinderChrift from coming in, and till Chrifl: come in. Guiltwill not go out; and where Guilt is, there is Hardnefsof Heart: And therefore much Guilt argues little (ifany Thing) of Chrift.When Guilt is raifed up, take heed of getting itallayed any way but by Chrilt’s Blood, that will tendto Hardening. Make Chrift thy Peace, Eph. 2. 14. notthy Duties, thy Tears, <bc. Chrift thy Righteoufnds,not thy Graces, <bc. Thou mayft deftroy Chn l byf Duties as well as by Sins. Look at Chrift, and do as4 much as thou wilt. Stand with all thy Weight uponIChrift’s Righteoufnefs ; take heed of having one Footnon thy own Righteoufnefs, another on Chrift’s. Till1. Chrift come and fit on high upon a Throne of Grace*riin the Confcience there is nothing but Guilt, Terrors,<: fecret Sufpicions, the Soul hanging between Hope andFear, which is an un-Gofpel like State.I| He that fears to fee Sin’s'utmoft Vilenefs, the utmofliJBell of his own Heart, he fufpehs the Merfts of Chrift’; iBe thou never fuch a great Sinner, (1 John 2. 1.) tryChrift to make him thy Advocate, and thou lhalt findjhim Jefns Chrift the Righteous. In all Doublings,Htears, Storms of Confcience, look at Chrift continually 5cdo not argue it with Satan, (he defires no better) bid|ijhim go to Chrift, and he will anfwer him; it’s his Of-llfice to be our Advocate, 1 John 2. 1. his Office to an-'ijjhver Law, as our Surety, Htb. 7. 22. his Office to an-Iwer Juftice, as our Mediator, Cal. 3. 10. 1 Tim. 2. 5 J■fttnd he is fworn to that Office, Heb. 7. 20, 21. PuttChrift upon it. If thou wilt do any thing thyfelf( asjto Satisfaction for Sin, thou renounceft Chrift theRighteous, who was made Sin for thee, 2 Cor. 5.22.Satan may alledge, and corrupt Scripture, but heannot anfwer Scripture/ It’s Chrift’s. Word of migh-7 Authority, Chrift foiled Satan with it, Mat. 4.10. InJill the Scripture there is not an ill Word agabift a poorB Sinner,A Choice Drop of HoneySinner, ftript of Self-Righteoufnefs: Nay, It plainlypoints out this Man to be the Subject of the Grace ofthe Gofpel, and none.elfe. Believe but Ohrid’s Wil¬li ngnefs, and that wi}l make thee willing. II thou find-eft thou canft not believe; remember it’s Cl rift’s Workto make thee believe; put him upon it, he works to walland dp of his good Pleafure, Phil. 2. 13. Mourn forthy Unbelief, which is a fettingup of Guilt in the Con-fcience above Chrift, an undervaluing the Merits ofChrift, accounting his Blood an unholy, a common, and,unsatisfying Thing.Thou complained much of thyfelf. Doth thy Sitmake thee look more at Chrift; lefs at thyfelf? Thaiis right, elfe Complaining is but Hypocrify. To beIpoking at Dimas, Graces, Enlargements, when thoufhpuldft be looking at Chrift, that’s pitiful; Lookingat them will but make thee proud, looking at Chrift’Grace will" make thee humble. By Grace you{wt^.pphef, 2. 5, In all thy Temptations be notcpuraged, Jaines 1. 2. Thofe Surges may be (n<break thee, but) to heave thee off thyfelf on the RodChrift.Thou mayft be brought hr-', even to the BrinkHell, ready to tumble in; thou canft not be broughlower than , the Belly of Hell (many Saints have beethere, even dowfed in Hell) yet there thou mayft crythere, thou mayft look towards the holy Temple, Jona2. 4. Into that Temple none might enter but purifieones, and with an Offering too. Ails 21. 26. But no1Qhrift is bur Temple, Sacrifice, Altar, High-Prieft,whom none muft come but Sinners, and that withqiany Offering, but his own Blood once offered. Ha7- 27-Remember all the Patterns of Grace that areHeaven, Thou thinkeft, Oh, what a, MonumentGrace woujdft thou be! There are many Thoufanias rich Monuments as thou canft be. The greateSinner did never pafs the Grace of Chrift; Do njfrom the Rock Chrijl. 11i defpair: Hope (till, when the Clouds are blacked-, eve1*j then look towards Chrift, the {landing Pillar of the Fa*i ther’s Love and Grace, fet up in Heaven for all Sin-riers to gaze upon Continually. Whatfoever Satan orConfcience fay, do not conclude againll thyfelf; Chriftfliall have the laft Word; he is Judge of quick anddead, and muft pronounce the final Sentence; Hi's Bloodifpeaks Reconciliation, Col. i. 26. Cleanjing, \ John; 1. 17. Purehafe, Ads 20. 28. Redemption, 1 Pet.i 1. 19. Heb. 9. 13, 14. Remillion, v. 22.. | Liberty, Heb. 10. 19. Juftification, Uom. 7.9. Nigh-i nefs to God, E'pbef 2.13. Not a Drop of this Blood: {hall be loll. Stand and hearken what God will fay,; for he will fpeak Peace to his People, that they return! ho more to Folly, Pfal. 85. 8. He fpeaksGrace, Mer*j cy and Peace, 2 Tim. 1, 2. That's the Language of-| the,Father and of Chrift, Wait for Chrift’s Appearing,I Its the Morning Star, Rev, 22. 19. He {hall come as cer--j tainly as the Morning, at refreftiingly as the Rain, Hof.I The Sun may as well be hindered from Riling, as'Chrift the Sun of Righteoufnefsi, ALr/. 4. 2. Look mota Moment off Chrift. Look not upon Sin, but lookupon Chrift firft ; when thou mourn.eft for Sin, if thoudoll not fee Chrift thet), away with it, Zech, 2. lb.In every Duty look at Chrift, before Duty to pardon ;in Duty, to affift ; after Duty, to accept. Withoutthis it is but carnal, carelefs Duty. Do not legalize theGofpci, as if Part did remain for tbee to do and fuffer,s and Chrift were but an half Mediator ; and thou muftbear Part of thy own Sin, make Part Satis bullion. , Let-l! Sin break thy Heart, but not thy Hofie in the Gpfpel.Look more at Juftification than Sandlification. Inthe higheft Commands, confider Chrift, not as anExador, to require; but a Debtor, an Undertaker,to work. If tfiou haft looked at Workings^ Duties,< Qualifications, <bc. more than at the Merits of Chrift,it wiU coll thee dear: No Wonder thou goeft complain*ing.]12 A Choice Drop of Honeyingy Graces may be Evidences, the Merits of Chrift(alone without them) muft be the Foundation of thy jHope to bottom on. Chrift only can be the Hope ofGlory, Col. i. 27.When we come to God, we muft bring nothing butChrift with-us. Any Ingredients, or any previous Qua- :lifications of our own, will poifon and corrupt Faith.He that builds upon Duties, Graces, &c. knows notthe Merits of Chrift. This makes believing fo hard, fofar above Nature; if thou believeft, thou muft everyDay renounce (as Dung andDrofs, Phil. 7, 1. 8.) thyPrivileges, thy Obedience, thy Bnptifm, thy SanifHloca¬tion, thy Duties, thy Graces, thy Tears, thy Meltings,:thy Humblipgs, and nothing but Chrift muft 'be heldtip; every day thy Workings, thy Self-fufficiency muft'be deftroyed. Thou muft take all out of God s Hand.Chrift is the Gift of God, John 4. xo. Faith is theGift of God, EpheJ. 2. 8. Pardon a free Gift, Ro?h. c.16. Ah, how Nature ftorms, frets, rageth at this, thatall is of Gift, and it can purchaie nothing with itsAftings, and Tears, and Duties ; that all Workings areexcluded, and of no Value in Heaven.If Nature had been to contrive the way of Salvati¬on, it would rather have put it into the Hands of Saintsor Angels, to fell it, than of Chrift (who gives freely)whom therefore it fufpetfs; it would have fet up aiway to purchafe by doing; therefore it abominates theMerits of Chrift, as the moft deftru&ive Thing to it.Nature would do any thing to be fayed, rather than tago to Chrift, or clpfe with Chrift; Chrift will havenothing; the Soul will force fcmewhat of his own1upon Chrift. Here in that great Controverfy.Conhder,didft thou ever yet fee the Merits of Chrift, and theinlinite Satisfaftion, made by his Death ? didft thoufee this when the Burthen of Sin and the Wrath piGod lay heavy on thy Cpnfcience ? that is Grace. TheGreatnefs of Chrift’s Merits is not know n but to a pooiSoul at the grcateft lofs. Slight Convictions will btrhav<from the Rock Chriji. 13pave flight low Prizings of Chrift’s Blood and Merits:I Defpairing Sinner ! Thou lookeft on thy Right-tand and on thy left, faying, IMo mill Jhem us any good?Thou art tumbling over all thy Duties and Profeffions:o patch up a Righteoufnefs to fave thee. Look atthrill now, look to him and be faved, all the Ends>f the Earth, Ifa. 45. 22. There is none elfe. He isl Saviour, and there is none belides him, w. 21. Look.ny where elfe, and thou art undone. God will look,it nothing but Chrift, and thou mud look at nothingi Ife. Chrift is lifted up on high (as the brazen Ser->ent in the Wildcrnefs) that Sinners at the Ends of the:| Darth, the greateft Diftance, may fee him, and look to-j vards him. The lead Sight of him will be having,|he leaft Touch healing to thee; and God intends thoujjhouldeft look on him, for he hath fet him upon a high• throne of Glory, in the open View of all poor Sinners.Thou haft infinite Reafon to look on him, no Reafon at11 to look off him. For he is meek and lowly of Heart,Maith. II. 29. He will do that himfelf which he/ equires of his Creatures, vi~7. bear with Infirmities,5. 1. not pleafng himfelf, not (landing upon Points of.aw, v. 2. He will reftore with , the Spirit of Meek-i efs. Gal. 6, 1. and bear thy Burthens, v. 2. He will/ srgive, not only till feven times, but feventy times feven,■1 yiattb., 18. 21, 22. Itput the Faith of the Apoftle to■s to believe this, Luke 17, 4, y. becaufe we are hard.«» > forgive, we think Chrift is hard.1 We fee Sin great, we think Chrift doth fo, and mea-: ire infinite Love with our Line, infinite 'Merits withar Sins, which is the greateft Pride and Blafphemy,. fal. 103. 11, 12. IJa. 40. ij. Hear what he faith,, have found a Random, Job 33. 24. In Him I am: ell pleafed, ]\.a1th. 3. 17. God will have nothing: fe; nothing tlfe will do thee good, or fatisfy Con-fi ience, but Chrift whofatisfied the Father. God dothlupon.the Account of Chrift. Thy Deferts are Hell,fcuh, Rejeftion. Chiili’s Delerts are Life, Pardon,and14 -A Choice Drop of Honeyand Acceptation. He will not only (hew thee the one,but he will give thee the other. It's thrift’s own Gloryand Happinefs to pardon. Confider, whilfl Chrift was'upon the Earth, he was more among Publicans andSinners than among Scribes and Pharifees, his profeffedAdverfaries; for they were righteous ones. It is not!as thou imagined, that his State iii Glory makes him’negleftful, fcornful to poor Sinners; no, he hath thefame Heart now in Heaven, he is God, and changethinot: He is the Lamb of God that iake'th away the Sinkof the world, John i. 29. He went thrd’ all thy Tem¬ptations, Dejedions, Sorrows, D-Gniohs, Rejedions,Matth. '4. a,—-12. 'and 26. Mark 15. 24. Luke 22.44. Matth. 26. 38. And hath dnlrtk the bitterdt of theCup-, and left thee the fweet; the Condemnation is outChrift drunk up all the Father’s Wrath at one, Draught,and nothing but Salvation is left for thee. Thou lay!thou canft not believe, thou canft not repenit. Fitteifor Chrift if thou haft nothing but Sin and Mifery. Gcto Chrift with all thy Impenitency and Unbelief, to getFaith and Repentance for him; that is glorious. Tel•Chrift, Lordt I have brought no Righteoufnefs, no Graft ;to be accepted in or jufified by; 1 am come for thini l-and have it. We would be bringing to Chfiland that muft not be ; not a Penny of Nature’s highe '■Improvements will pafs in Heaven. Grace will not ftafi rwith Works, Tit. 3. 5. Rom. 11. 6. Thatis a terrib :Point to Nature, which cannot think of being ftrijof all, not having a Rag of Duty or Righteoufriefs lei j1to look at. Sclf-righteoufnefs, Self-fufficlency, atthe Darlings of Nature, which flic preferves as her Life :■that makes Chrift feem ugly to Nature, Nature cajnot delire him; he is juft diredly oppolite to all N; jtare’s glorious Interefts. Let Nature but make a Gqpel, and it will make it quite contrary to Chrift. It wou. vbe to the Juft, the Innocent, the Holy, dc. .made the Go (pel for thee, that is, for needy SinneiiN:the Ungodly, the Unrighteous, die Accurfed. Natjjjfrom the Rock Chrift.fcnnot endure to think the Gofpel is only for Sinners:: will rather choofe to defpair than to go to Chrilt upontch terrible Terms. When Nature is but put to ity Guilt or Wrath, it will go to its old Haunts of Self*ighteoufnefi, Self-goodnefs, And infinite Powermil- call down thofe ftrong Holds. None but the Sdf-ufticiary Hands excluded out of the GofpelChriftnil look at the moft abominable Sinner before him,ecaufe to fuch an one Ghrift cannot be made Juftification ;e is no Sinner. To fay in Compliment, I am a Sinner,eafy; but to. pray with the Publican indeed. Lord? merciful to me a Sinner, is the hardeft Prayer in theIforld. It’s eafy to fay, 1 believe in Chrijl; but toe Chrift full of Grace and Tnfth, of nvhofe Fulneft'iou mayejl receive Grace for Grace', that’s faying.:’s eafy to profefs Ghrift with the Month; but to con*,fs him with the Heart, as Peter (to be the Chrijl theon of the Ihing. God, the alone Mediator) that’s abovelelh and Blood. Many call Chrift Saviour-, few know:m fo. To fee Grace, Salvation in Chrift is the great*t Sight in the World; none can do that, but at theme time they fhall fee that Glory and Salvation to: theirs. Sights will caufe Applications. I may behamed to think in the midft of fo much Profeftion,rat. I have known ffttle of the Blood of Chrift, whichthe main thing of the' Gofpel. A Chriftlefs, for*al Profeflion, will be the blackeft1 Sight next toell, that can be. Thou mayft have many good things,id yet one thing maybe wanting, that may make thee► away forrowful from Chrift. Thou haft never foldl thou haft, never parted with all thine own Right-mfnefs, <bc. Thou mayft be high in Duty, and yetperfeft Enemy and Adverfary to Chrift, in every■ rayer, in every. Ordinance. Labour after Satuftifica*on to thy utmoft; but make not a Chrift 'of it tove thee;, if• fo, it muft come down one wav orher. Clftift’s infinite •Satisfaiftion, not thy Sanftifica-on, muft' be thy Juftification before God. Whenthe16 A Choice Drop of Honeythe Lord fhall appear terrible out of his holy Place;Fire (hall confume that as Hay and Stubble. This wiLbe found Religfbn, only to bottom all upon the ever*kiting Mountains of God’s Love and Grace in Chrift!to live continually in the Sight of Chrilt’s infinityRighteoufnefs and Merits, (they are Sanctifying, withoutthem the Heart is carnal) and in thofe Sights to fee %the full Vilenefs, yet Littlenefs of Sin, and to fee allpardoned; in thofe Sights to pray, hear, <bc. feeing thypolluted Self, and all thy weak Performances acceptedcontinually; in thofe Sights to trample upon all thySelf-glories, Righteoufnefs, Privileges, as abominable,and be found continually in the Right^oufnefs of Chritlonly, rejoicing in the Ruins of thy own Righteoufnefs,the fpoiling of all thy own Excellencies, that Chrillalone, as Mediator, may be exalted in his Throne,mourning over all thy Duties (how glorious foeverjthat thou halt not performed in the Sight and Senfe ol iChrilt’s Love; without the Blood of Chrift on theConfcience all is dead Service, Heb. 9. 14.That Opinion of Free-will (fo cried up) will beeafily confuted (as it is by Scripture) in die Heart,who hath had any fpiritual dealing with Jefus ChrjltJas to the Application of his- Merits, and Subjection tchis Righteoufnefs. Chrilt is every way too magnifw tcent a Perfon for poor,Nature to clofe withal, or to* iapprehend. Chrilt is fo infinitely holy. Nature durllnever look at him; fo infinitely good, Nature cainever believe him to be fuch, when it lies under ful_Sight of Sin. Chrill is too high and glorious for-Nature fo much as to touch. There mult be a divingNature firlt put into the Soul, to make, it lay hold onihim, he lies fo infinitely beyond the Sight or Reach ofNature.That Chrift that natural Free-will can apprehend,is but a natural Chrift of a Man’s own making, notthe Fadier’s Chrift, not Jefus the Son of the living,God, to whom none can come without the Father’s.'drawing,from the Rock Chrifl i 7idraving, John 6. 44, 46. Finally,.fearchthe Scripturesdaily, as Mines of Gold, wherein the Heart of Chriftis laid. Watch againft Conltitution Sins, fee themin their Vilenefs, and they lhall never break out intoAft. Keep always an humble, empty, broken Frameof Heart, fenfible of any fpiritual Mifcarriage, obfer-vant of all inward Workings, fit for the. higheft Com¬munications. Keep not Guilt • in the Conscience, butapply the Blood of .Chrift immediately.' God chargethSin and Guilt upon thee to make thee look to Chrift:Jie brazen Serpent.Judge not Chrift’s Love by Providences, but byPromifes; Blefs God for ftiaking off falie Foundations,ibr .any way whereby he keeps-the Souf awakened andpoking after Chrift; better Sickneffes, Temptations,hem Security and Slightnefs.A flighty Spirit will turn a profane Spirit, and wilt,§n and pray too. Slightnefs is the pane of Profeffion,’ it be not rooted out of the Heart, by conftant andi erious Dealings with, and Beholdings of Chrift induties, it will grow more ftrorig and more deadly,>y being under Churcli Ordinances. Meafure not thy•rraces by others Attainments, but by Scripture Trials.3e ferious, exaft in Duty, having the Weight of it uponhe Heart; but be as much afraid of taking Comforrpm Duties. as from Sins. Comfort from any Handtit! Chrift is deadly. Be much in Prayer, or you willever keep up much Communion with.God. As youre in Chjfet Prayer, fo you will be in all other Ordi-ances.Reckon not Duties by high Expreflions, but by low'fames, and the Beh'oldtngs of Chrift. Tremble at Du-and Gifts. It was the Saying of a great Saint, He\)as more afraid of his Duties than his Sins; the onejften made him proud, the other always made himumble. Treaftire up Manifeftations of Chrift’s.Love,pey make the Heart low for Chrift, too high for Sin.jlight not the loweft, meaneft Evidences.of Grace;C God18 A Choice Drop of HoneyGod may put thee to make ufe of the lowed as thouthinks; even that, i John 3. 14. that may be wortha thoufand Worlds to thee.Be true to Truth, but not turbulent and fcornful;reftore fitch as are fallen, help them up again with aHthe Bowels of Chriff. Set the broken disjointed Boneswith the Grace of the Gofpel, high Profeflbr! De- ■fpife not weak Saints;' thou mayft come to wMh to >be in the Condition of the meaneft of them. Be faith- 1ful to others Infirmities, but fenfible of thine own. Vi-fit lick Beds and deferted Souls much, they are excel¬lent Scholars in Experience.Abide in your Calling. Be dutiful to all Relations asto the Lord. Be content with little of the World; lit¬tle will fefve. Think every little of the Earth much,becaufe unworthy the lead. Think much of Heaven nottoo little, becaufe Chrift is fo rich and free. Think Irevery one better than thyfelf, and carry ever felf loathing 1about thee, as one fit to be trampled upon by all Saints. *See the Vanity of the World, and the Confumptioa Fthat is upon all things, and love nothing but Chrid» kMourn to fee fo liule of Chrid in the World, fo few 1needing him. Trifles pleafeth them better. To a fecure ISoul Chrid is but a Fable, the Scriptures but a Story. 'Mourn to think how many tinder Baptifm, Church Or- j:der, that are not under Grace, looking much after Du- ity. Obedience, little after Chrift, little verfed inGrace. Prepare for the Crofs, welcome it, bear it 1triumphantly like Chrift’s Crofs, whether Scoffs, Mock-ings, Jeers, Contempt, Imprifonments, <bc. but fea 1it be Chrift’s Crofs, not thine own.Sin will hinder from Glory in the Crofs of Chrid* (omitting little Truths againft Light may breed Hellin the Gonfcience,-as well as committing the greatelt aSins againft Light. If thou haft been taken out of theBelly of Hell into Chrift’s Bofom, and made to lit a-mong Princes in the Houlhold of God, Oh, hoWfhouldd thou live as a Pattern of Mercy; redeemed,reftoredfrom the-Rock Chrift, 19| reftored Soul! What infinite Sums doft thou owe1 Chtilt! With what fingular Frames mult thou walk,j and do every Duty! on Sabbaths, what praifing Days,I finging of Hallelujahs, Ihould they be to thee ! Church'I Feliowlhip, what a Heaven, a being with Chrift, andj Angels and Saints Communion; what a drowning theSoul in eternal Love, as a Burial with Chrilt, dyingii to all Things belides him. Every Time thou think-| eft of Chrilt, be aftonilhed, and wonder; and when!j thou feeft Sin, look at Chrift’s Grace that did pardonli it; and when thou art proud, look at Chrift’s Grace,if that lhall humble and ftrike thee down in the Duft.k Remember Chrift’s Time of Love when thou waft, naked, Ezet. 16. 8. 9. and then he chofe thee. Canft1 thou ever have a proud Thought ? Remember whofe. Arms lupported thee from (inking, and delivered theefrom the lowed Hell, Pfai. 86. 13. and lliout in theEars of Angels and Men, Pfal. 148. and for everfing Praife, Praife, Grace, Grace. Daily repent and, pray; and walk in the Sights of Grace, as one that; hath the Anointings of Grace upon thee. Rememberthy Sins, Chrift’s Pardonings; thy Deferts, Chrift’sMerits; thy Weaknefs, Chrift’s Strength ! thy Pride,Chrift’s Humility; thy many Infirmities, Ghrift’s Re-ftorings; thy Guilt, Chrift’s new Applications of hisBlood; thy Failings, Chrift’s Railing up; thy Wants,Chrift’s Fulnefs; thy Temptations, Chrift’s Tender-nefs; thy Vilenefs, Chrift’s Righteoufnefs,Blefled Soul! whom Chrift (hall find not having onhis own Righteoufnefs, Phil. 3.9. But having his Robeswaflicd and made white in the Blood of the Lamb,Rev. 7. 14. Woful miferable Profeflbr ! that hath notthe Gofpel within, reft not in Church-Trials; th jumay’ll pafs that, and be call away in Chrift’s Day ofTrial: Thou may’ll come to Bapthm, and never co neto JESUS, and the Blood of Sprinkling, Heb. 12. 24.Whatever Workings or Attainments of Chrift’s Blood,Merits, Righteoufnefi, (the main ObjeA of the Gofpel I20 A Choice Drop of HoneyFalls fliort of the Gofpel, and leaves the’Soul in a condi¬tion of Doubt’mgs and Queftionings: And Doubtings(if not look’d unto betimes) will turn to Slightnefs oi;'Spirit, one of the moft; dangerous Frames. Triikr notwith Ordinances. Be much in Meditation and Prayer,Wait diligently u-pbn all hearing Opportunities. We.had need of Dodtrine, Repr^o^ Exhortation, Confola-tion, as the tender Herbsandthe Grafs hath of the Rain,the Dew,the fmallRain, and the Showers, Dent. 32. 2,Do all thou xioeft as Soul-Work ns unto Chrift, Zach.rj. 5, 6. as immediately dealing with Cfirift Jefus, as ifhe were looking on thee, and fhott 011 him, and fetch allthy Strength from him.. Obferve what holy Motions you find in your Souls toDuties, prize the leaft good Thought thou haft ofChrift, the leaft good Word thou fpeakeft of him fin'- -cerely from the Heart, rich Mercy : Q blefs God forit 1 Oblerve, if every Day you have the Day-fpring 'rfrom on high, with his .Morning Dews of Mourning for ’Sin, conftantly vifiting thee, Luke 1. 17. have you thebright Mprning Star, with frejh Influences of Grace, iand Peace, conftantly.arifing, Rev. 22. t6. and Chriftfweetly greeting the Soul in all Duties. What Dutymakes not more fpjritual, wilLmake more carnal; whatdoth not quicken and humble, will cleaden and harden.Judas may have the Sop, the outward Privilege ofBaptifm, Supper, Church Fellowfhip, 6c. hut John.leaned on Chrift's Bofom, .Jthn 13. 23. that's the Gof-pel Ordinance Pofture, in wliioh we fhould pray, and "hear, and perform all Duties. Nothing but lying in that; I tBofom will, diffolve Hardneu.of Heart, and make thee, t tto mourn kindly for Sin,' and cure Slightingncfs and. * tOrdinarincfs of Spirit (that Gangrene in Profeition)-that ■ 'i jiwill humble indeed, and make the Soul cordial to Chrilt,. • i 1and Sin vile to the Soul, yea transform the vglieft Piece 1 f |of Hell into tire Glory of Clurift. Never think thou ? ; tart right as thou fhouldeft be, a Chriftian of any At- jtainment, until thou come to this, always to fee and %1' i ('thy./from the Rock Chrifl., 21■thy&lf lying in the Bofom of Chrift, who is in the BoTom of his Father, John i. 18. Come and move theFather for Sights of Chrift, and you fliail be fure tofpeed ; you can come with no Requeft that pleafeth himbetter : he gave hijp out of his own Bofom for that verytnd, to be held up>before the Eyes of all Sinners, as theevei lafting Monument of his Father’s Love.Looking at the natural Sun weakeneth the Eye. Thepiore you look on Chrift, the Son of Righteoufnefs, theftronger and clearer will the pye of Faith be. Lookbut at Ckrijl, you will love him, andhve on him. Thinki pn him continually ; keep the Eye conftantly uponI Chriji'% Blood, or every Blaft of Temptation will fhake'you. If you will fee Sin’s Sinfulnefs, to loath it andl mourn, do not ftand looking upon Sin, but look uponthriji firft, as fuffering and fatisfying. . If you wouldfee-your Graces, your Sanftiiication, db not ftand gazingjjftp in them, but look at Chrifi\ Rightcoufnefs in the firftlHace ; (fee the Son and you fee all) look at your|C< races in the fecond Place. •f When you ad Faith, what you firft look at, that yonexpect Settlement from, and make it the Bottom of your .Hope. Go to Chrijim Sights of your Sin and Miferyynot of thy Grace and Holinefs. Have nothing to do\yith thy Graces and SamfHfication (they will but'vail-.Ckrijl) tjll. thou haft feen Chriji firft. ■ He that looks,■ipbn Chrifi thro’ his Graces, is like one that fees theSun in 'Water, which wavereth, and moves as the Waterloth. Look upon Cbrift only as Ihining in theFirma-uent of the Father’s Love and Grace, you will not fee': llm but in his own Glory, which is unfpeakablc. Pridend Unbelief will put you upon feeing fomewhat i.nyour-'0firft ; but Faith will have to do with none but Chrij},|ho is inexprefiibly. 'glorious, and muft fwallow up thyEdification as \yell as thy. Sin ; for - God made himhpthfor-us, and we muft make him both, i Cor. \. ^0. 2.| •On 5. 21. He that fetsup his Sanctification to look at,0 Comfort him, he fets up the greateft Ido}, which willi. 1 -. - flrengthaz'\ wMv’^22 A Choice Drop of HoneyJlrengthen his Doubts and Fears. Do but look offlChrifi, and prefently (like Peter) you fink in Doubts.A Chrijiian never wants Comfort, but by breakingthe Order and Method of the Gofpel, looking on hisown, and looking off Chriji't perfeft Righteoufnefj,whichis to chafe rather to live by Candle Light than by theLight of the Sun. The Honey that you fuck from youfown Righteoufhefs will turn into peifedt Gall, and theLight that you take from that to walk in will turn intoblack Night upon the Soul. Satan is tempting thee, bynutting thee to plod about thy own Grace, to get Com¬fort from that, then the Father comes and points thee toChrifi's Grace (as rich and glorious, infinitely pleafinghim) and biddeth thee ftudy Chrijl's Righteoufnefs ;(and his Biddings are Enablings) that’s a blefled Motion,a fweet Whifpering, checking thy Unbelief; follow theJeaft Hint, clofe with much Prayer, prize it as an invalu¬able Jewel; it’s an Earneft of more to come. Again,If you would pray, and cannot, and fo are difeouraged,fee Cbriji praying for you, ufing his Interefl with theFather for you. What can you want, John 14. 17.and ch, 17. If yorf be troubled, fee Chriji your Peace,Epbef. 2. 14. leaving you Peace when he went up:,*aHeaven, again and again charging you not to be trou¬bled, no not in the leaft (finfully troubled) fo as toob-ftrudl thy Comfort or thy Believing, John 14. 1, 27.He is now upon the Throne, having fpoiled upon hisCrofs (in the loweft State of his Humiliation) all what-foever can hurt or annoy thee ; he hath borne all thySins, Sorrows, Troubles, Temptations, <trc, and is goneto prepare Manfions for thee.Thou who haft fecn Chriji all, and thyfelf abfolutelynothing, who makeft Chriji all thy Life, and art deadto all Righteoufnefs befides, thou art the Chrijiian, onehighly beloved, and who hath found favour with God, aFavourite of Heaven, do Chriji this one Favour for allhis Love to thee, love all'his poor Saints and Churches(flie meaneft the woakeft, notwithftanding any differencefrom the Rock Chrifi. 23Judgment) they ate engraven on his Heart (as the1 ames of the Children of Ifrael on Aaron't Breaft-plate,\xod. 28. 21.) let them be foon thine. Pray for the\ eace ofJerufalemjhey Jhall proffer that love thee,VIA,■1p2. 6.FINIS.