yjcoBMountains:O N.PREACHED ONA Sacramental Occafion,By the Late ReverendMr. THOMAS BOSTON,Minifter of the Gofpel at Ettrick.ONISAIAH xl. 14,15.';Jacob, thou jhalt threjb the mountains,and beat them fmall, &C.FALKIRK:PRINTED BY T JOHNSTON*Whore may be had, variety of Pamphleta, in Divinityand tliftory, in wholefale, on the loweft terms,1803,OF SCOTiPiN/Bl.Worm Jacob,THRESHING THE MOUNTAIN!ASERMON,6nIsaiah x!i. 14, 15.Tear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men IJfrael: I will help thee, faith the Lo>\arid thy Redeemer, the holy One of Ifra\* 1Behold! I wilt make thee a new ftttrp threking inftrument, having teeth: Thou Jbikthref) the mountains, and beat them fmal\and fait make the hills as chaff.Religion is a myftery, and the trullreligious are a myfiery too. They are 1 >myftery to the world, John ui. 1. “ i’l&lworld knoweth us not. Ver. 2. But (to. thetrafelves);'f^o/Z> not yet appear what we fallThat is a matter not of fight and feeling, bu lfaith.' There are many odd connections,!and which people would think contradiCtionaand impoflibilities in the character. See a!clufter of them, zCor. vi. 10. As unknown!and yet well known; as dying- and, behold Awe live; as chaftened, and not killed; as\forrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor!( 3)I yet making many rich; as having nothing,| and yet. poffejpng all things. That is aftrange. connection, an old man and a newman in one man; but not more ftrange andfurprifing than this in the text, a wormI threfhing the mountains! and that not re-diculoully, without effe£t; but moil effica-j; cioully, beating them fmall.• In thefe words we have two things:i i. What the church and people of God are.They are named by him, who mifnamesnonz, wohn Jacob: And their name, fromhis nature, is a ’worm. They are poor,weak, defpifed creatures; ready to be crufiiedby the foot of every palfenger: Yet wonxJacob, believing, praying, and wreWing,worm as he is. 2. What they fhall cer¬tainly and infallibly do; Tbrefh the moun¬tains, and beat them fmall, &C.I find interpreters generally underflandIby the mountains, the great and lofty po¬tentates of the earth letting themfelvesagainlt the church. And, no doubt, thefewere in the prophet’s view. But,' the viewwas not confined to them only: God’sbringing down the Babylonian monarchyat their prayers, and the victories after¬wards of the Macabees over the!r enemies,cannot reafonably be fuppofed to completethe iiitent of this prophecy. We muft needslook to the kingdom of Chrift for it, of whichthere is plainly an account in Chap. xvii.17, 19* compared with Dan. ii. 54, 55.And we mud carry on our view all alongto the end of time, Rev. ii. 26, 27. Therather, that it is the way of the prophet towrap up in one expreffion temporal, fpirit-ual and eternal deliverance ; the deliver¬ance from Babylon, which .was temporal,being the firft and neared in view; IfaiahXXVI. Ip. Tby dead meti Jhall live, &C. butnot terminating in it. Here then we mayconfider,Firft, What worm Jacob has to encounteror yoke with, mountains and bills, uhofeweight is fufficient to crullt millions of him !difficulties quite difproportionable to hisflrength, as a mountain to that of a worm.Secondly,. The fuccefs of this very un¬equal match: The mouhtains ffiall notcrufli the worm, but the worm ffiall threffithe mountains, as one doth a ffieaf of corn,with repeated drckes. They did not threffitheir corn in thofe days, with flails, as wedo; but trode it out with the feet of men orbeads, or elfe by drawing a kind of cartHedge, over and over it, called, in the text,tbrejhing inftrumenTs. 1 do not mind theword here denoting the a&ion of the worm,, and rendered tbrejhing, applied at all tothe drag, but, as it formerly fignifies, totread out, as rendered, Hofea x. 11. “ Eph¬raim is as an heifer that is taught, and lovethto tread out corn.5, As appears from Ifaiah( 5 )xxv. lo. For in this mountain {hall thehand of the Lord relt; and Moab lhall betrodden down under him, even as ftraw istrodden down for the dunghill.” So it isapplied to a felf-moving creature, many! Micah iv. 13. Arife and tbrejhy 0 daughterof Ziony” or breait. Here lies the myfteryj then, uniting the two notions of the felf-[ move and the inftruments, that the worm; fliall tread out the mountains, as one woulddo a mole-hill. And if ye fay, Afas! fuchI a treader; what weight has it ? I will make,faith the Lord, the feet of the belly of theworm, like a new-lhoed threfhing drag, forthem, that {hall tread out the highelt andI rockiell of them all, to purpofe.Thirdly, The degree and pitch of theworm’s fuccefs againft thofe mountains:It Jhall beat them Jmall, till tbev be like duft,as the word is ufed,Deut.ix. 1. or, like chaff,1 *■ that they {hall be blown away with wind,and no vellige of them fhall remain.Fourthly, The infur^nce of this fuccefsof the worm. Who could infure it but the!: Mighty GOD? He has done it. JESUSj CHRIST JEHOVAH, the moilhighGOD,and the worm Jacob's kinfman Redeemer,hath, by his word of promife, engaged hisalmighty power on the fide of the wormagainll the mountains. Let not the worm.fear or doubt the fuccefs. A worm fecondedby Jefus Chrift, will be an overmatch for- ( 6 )all the mountains and hills fetting up theirheads from earth or hell.Doctrine. r‘ The myftery of grace,“ carried on by Jesus Christ in his“ church and people, is like a worm“ threlhing the mountains, infallibly“ to iflue in it threlhing them away** quite and clean. Briefly, auorw Jacob“ lhall threlh the mountains, and threlli“ Ahem away quite and clean.”Here we lhall confider,I. The character of the fubje«5V, whereinthis myftery of grace is carried on by ourLord Jefus Chrift.II. The myftery of grace carried on inthem by Jefus Chrift.III. I fnall account for this myftery,cbornt Jacob threlhing the mountains ofdifficulties in his way, and threlhing themaway quite and clean.IV. Apply.Firft, I (hall conftder the character ofthe fubjefl;, wherein this myftery is carriedon by Jefus Chrift. It is the worm Jacobydenoting.the church in general, and everybeliever or true member thereof in parti¬cular; for of thefe the church confifts, as inthe text, ver. 14. without the fupplement:Fear not thou, warm Jacoby ye men of Ifrael.( 7 )One would think, that one oefigned to bea threlher of the mountains, Ihould be aparty of a fmgle, great, and fwelling charac¬ter; a hero, a giant, or any other thing thatcould carry the character higher: But, onthe contrary, it is very low, furprifing low,worm Jacob. This character points at thefefive things, efpecially in the cafe of the peo-people of God. It points them out as,1. Weak creatures, really weak for theencounters they mull make, as a worm fora mountain. God himfelf gives them thisname of extreme weaknefs, therefore theymult be fo indeed. They have weak heads,hearts, and hands, for the work they arecalled to. Not only does the firlt gracefind them really weak, but the after fuppliesof grace alfo, Heb. xi. 34. Out of weahufswere made ftrong.2. Humbled fouls, truly fenfible of theirown weaknefs. By nature they were fwel¬ling vipers, but by grace they are humbledworms. And,_ t'irff, Habitually humbled, in refpe£t oftheir Hate; as the creeping worm, whofenature it is to go on his belly. So thehumble and the gracious are equivalentterms, Pfal. xxxiv. 2, 3. “ Mv foul fhal!make her boall in the Lord. The humblefhall hear there )f, and be glad. O magnifythe Lard with me, and exalt his name to¬gether!” There is a law-work, followed/1( 3 )with gofpel-grace, wrought on them, iffuingin a thorough humiliation ; breaking downtheir natural feif-conceit; tumbling downtheir towering imaginations about them-felves, which they had in their flate ofblindnefs, bringing them, in their own eyes,from the confidence of mountains to that cfworms, and convincing them they are,have,and can do nothing,Luke:cv.i7. iCor.x.4,5.idly. Actually humbled, in refpe£t oftheir frame ; as the worm dill retains itscreeping way, on the mountains as in thevalley; fo God’s people do difficulties to behappily, furmounted, dill keep up the fenfeof their own utter emptinefs and weaknefsfor them, 2 Cor. iii. 5. “ Not that we arefufficient of ourfelves to think any thing ofourfelves, but our fufficiency is of God.”If the worm Jacob, being fo well again,he will be fo unwieldy, that he will thredithe mountains till he fall anew, 2C0r.xiii.11.3^/jy, Defpifing creatures. As the loftymountains cover the crawling worms, fodoth the carnal world contemn worm Jacob,Pfah xxii. 6. “ But I am a worm, and noman; a reproach of men, and defpifed ofthe people.” And, Pfal. xxxii. 4. “ Ourfoul is exceedingly filled with the fcorningof thofe that are at eafe, and with the con¬tempt of the proud.” Though they mayvalue worm Jacob for his gifts, which hehas in common with themfelves, they will( 9 )never value him for his grace ; that leaveshim ftill as a worm in their fight; what ofreligion lies beyond the reach of the natureof man. They defpife the Chriftian enter¬tainment on words and prorpifes: They de-; fpife us as we do the dull; they defpife usas we do the crawling of the worm, likeSanballet, when he mocked the Jews, faying,“ What do thefc Jews ? Will they makean end in a day ? Will they revive theftones out of the heaps of ruhbifh whichare burnt ?” But notwithftanding of allthat, the worms lick up the Chrillian wayof doing by faith.4. Yet united to Chrifl, though a worm*tworm Jacob. Our Lord Jefus Chrilt him-felf is of the worm family, Pfal. xxii. ’worm.Jacob. And Pfal. xxiv. 6. “ This is thegeneration of them that feek him, that feekthy face, O Jacob.” Compare Ifa. xlix. 3.“ Thou art my fervant, O Ifrael, in whomI will be glorified.” This intimates an1 union between him and them, as his wormbrethren, Heb. ii. it. Being lowered and| humbled to the condition of the worm, theyare knit to and built on him by faith,Luke vi. 48.5. Laftly, Daring adventurers, daringwreftlers. Worm Jacob ventured on himthat formed the mountains, and wreliledwith him, and prevailed too, Gen. xxxii.28.Hof. xii. 4. What wonder to find him then( )venturing cn the mountains themfelves.He ,muft have the blefling, and mult beforwarded whatever mountains be in theway. I proceed toThe fecond thing to be confidered, namely,the myltery of grace carried on in them byJefusChrilt, we may take it up in thefe two.i. An apparently hopetefs encounter they-are led to by him : Worm Tacrb threjhingxbe mountains. What a hopelefs-like en¬counter is a worm threfhing a mountain!So hopelefs-like are the encounters thatthe people of God have to make in theirway to the eternal reft. Thefe threlhersare certainly threfliers in hope, i Cor. ix. 10.But the naked eye cannot difcover the trueground of hope in it; it is faith only thatIhsws it hopeful, when fight repfefents itas a hopelefs cafe; and therefore they muftcloft^ their eyes, and threfti in faith, asAbraham did, Rom. iv. 19. We take upthis hopelefs-like encounter in five things.Firfiy The Lord lays in his people’s waymountains ^of difficulties, quite above theirftrength; difficulties which they look to, asa worm to a mountain before it, 2 Cor. i. 8.“ For we would not, brethren, have you'Ignorant of our trouble, which came to usin Afia,that we were preffed out of meafure,above ftrength, infomuch that vve defpairedeven of life ?” However plain the way tohell b^, the way to heaven will be a mouji-/( II )tainous way in the experience of sill thattravel it: They will never want mountainsin the way, till they come to the hill of God.Secondly, They mud not go about themountains in their way, ihifting the diffi¬culties which God calls them to; but theyI mud make their way over them, threffiingthem down,Micah iv. i3.“Arife and threfli,O daughter of Zion; for I will make thinehorn iron, and thy brow brafs : And thoufhalt beat in pieces many people.” If theyoffer to go about one mountain, they will belure to meet with a higher one in their about-gate. Peter tried it, in denying his Mader,and found it fo; having to encounter another,as high above theformer,as the anger of Godis above that of the creature, and which waslike to crufh him, Matth. xxvi, 75. i/e ventout and wept bitterly.Thirdly, Therefore, worm Jacob falls a-threfhing the mountains, combating the dif-ficulties the Lord lays in his way. He putsi on a brow for a bargain, and refolutely be-dirs his weak hands, and goes threfhing for¬wards, maugers all oppofitions,Gen.xxxii.6.Matth. xi. 22. For there is a fpirit in wormJacob more daring and venturous than everwas in any unbelieving hero, a fpirit for thethrefhing of mountains, while they did butfcatter nole-hills,Num.xiv.24. Pro. xvi.32.Fourthly, They continue the combating *of difficulties refoluttely and patiently.—>Threlhing is a continued a£tion, confillingof repeated ftrokes: It takes fome time tothrelh a iheaf, how much more to threflia mountain ? It is the ruin of many, thatthey are not able to endure, tho’ a itroke ortwo would do the bufinefs, and would bringtheir matters to a good account; but theyhave no heart to be threlhers. “ Let pati¬ence have her perfect work, that ye may beperfect and entire, wanting nothing,” Jamesii. 4. “ He that lhall endure to the end,Ihall be faved,” Matth. xxiv. 13...Laftly, Worm Jacob has many mountainsto threlh. One wound is enough, we wouhfthink, to the worm; but there is plurality ofthem. The truth is, this world is full ofmountains to the people of God ; and whenthey have threfhed one, they will have ano¬ther to fall to, till they be out of this moun¬tainous country. Having palled one diffi¬culty, they will get another to grapple withtill they be within the gates cf the city.So they mull have a threfhing life-timeof it, before they get there.2. A furpriling fuccefs, even as furpdfingas a worm threlhing and beating the moun¬tains fmall to dull, and then threlhing themay/ay. Such will be the iffue of the en¬counters which the people of God now havewith their difficulties in their way throughthe world, for which the text is plain. Wetake it up in thefe two. They will hove,( !3 )Firfty Patriarchal fuccefs in their waj’’,"very furprifing to others, and to themfelves,Pfal. exxvi. i, 2. “ When the Lord turnedagain the captivity of Zion, we were likethem that dream. Then was our mouthfilled with lapgbter, and our tongues withfinging; then laid they among the Heathen,the Lord hath done great things for them.”When mountains of difficulties verse inDavid’s way to the kingdom, he threlhedlong at them, and they never appeared togive way: Nay, he was brought to fay,“ One day I fltall perilh by the hand ofSaul.” But fee his furprifing fuccefs at lalt,Pfal. xviii. entitled, “ A Pfalm of David,“ in the day that the Lord delivered him“ frotn the hand of all his enemies, and“ from the hand of Saul.” Wherein, afterrecapitulating the various difficulties he hadto encounter with, he particularly mentionsthe happy deliverance he met with, and thefurprifing manner of the fame. Some moun¬tains God’s people are kept threlhing at alltheir days, efpecially the mountain of cor¬ruption ; and they never fall quite downtill death. But, as a pledge for the time tocome, God makes now and then fome moun¬tains to fall down before the worm Jacob,wherewith he is furprifed and tranfportedwith wonder how it came to pafs, Markxvi- 4, 5. “ And when they looked, theylaw the ftone was rolled away: and theywere affrighted.”( 14 )Secondly, A t'rtfcl fuccefs at the end oftheir ways, which will iwallow them upin furprife and eternal wonder! i John iii.2.“ Beloved, now are we the ions of God:and it doth not yet appear what we fhali be;but we knew, that, when be lhall appear,we fhail be like him ; for we lhall lee -himas he is.” When the mydery is fnnlhed,and the web cut out, it will appear an ad¬mirable piece ! There will not be left thenthe leaft veftage of ail the mountains thatflood between heaven and them; the threlhenmountains will then be bl5wn away withthe wind, and they will lay by the flail asan inllrument they have no more ufe for.Objeft* But have not others, as well asworm Jacob, mountains of difficulties intheir way, which they become niafters ofat length ?Anf iu. This world is fo mountainous thatnone can get through it without meetingmountains in their way. Carnal men makea fhift to creep through fome of them, butthey can tbrefh none of them, as worm Jacobdoth; they want his hand and llaff, Johnxv, 5. Without me, ye can do nothing.—They creep into others of them, and nefllein them; the mountains of their corruptions,which, in a fpecial manner, Hand betweenheaven and them, and at length they will*be eternally buried under them..(15 5Ufa r. Here is a touchftoile for the trial( of true Chriliians and worthy communicants,j worm Jacob threiliing the mountains.Firft, They have a heart and fpirit for! threfl)ing of mountains, in their way toheaven. ' They are peremptory and refo-| lute to break through them without excep-, tion, as men that mufl be in : thefe lhallnot perilh. Matth. xi. \z.—The kingdomef heaven fujferelb violence ; And the valienttake it by Jorce. Though they have longthreflien in vain, to their own fenfe, yet they- are refolved to hold on (becaufe they feehim who is invilible) and, like Paul, Frefsforward, toward this mark, for the prize ofthe high calling of God in Cbrift, Phil. iv. 15;The fearful and unbelieving, they are fodelicate and faint-hearted in this cafe, thatthey are not for threlhing the mountains,they are for the eafier talk, but have noheart cr hand for that work. Thefe, I amfare, are the fearful, Rev. xxi. 8. They arelike the unbelieving fpies' and people of thevvildernefs. Take heed here how ye hand.(1.) To a vain world: Whether thereis in you a heart to row againlt the hreamor no, Rpm. xii. 2. “ Be ye not conformedto this world; but be ye fransformed by therenewing of your minds, See.” If ye haveno heart for it, but mull go along with it,be ye young or old, ye are no good Chrilii¬ans, Gal. vi. 14. —The world is crucijhd( 16 )to tne, and I to ‘ 1 world.” And youngcommunicants les ' ng that gap open, makeufelefs old ones after.(2.) To the fin that moll eafilybefetsyou.If you have no heart to thVefh that moun¬tain, ye have not the fpirit of worm Jacob,who is one that keeps himfelf from his ini¬quity, Pfal. xviii. 23. and ye will be buriedunder it at length, like the young man,who was grieved at ChritPs difcourfe aboutfelf-denial and tiie crofs, and went awayfrom him, and never returned, Mark x. 21.(3.) To the crook in your lot. Have youno heart in yourfelves to wilh for a Chriltianlike bearing of it, but mult needs have itevened to your mind ? If .ye have not, yeare not of the fpirit of the worm Jacob:for Chrift hath faid, “ If any man will comeafter me, let him deny himfelf, and take uphis crpfs and follow med’ Matth. xvi. 24.Secondly, Yet they are but worms in theirown eyes; and, therefore, an unequal matchfor the lealt of the mountains, 2 Cor. iii. 5.44 We are not fufficient of ourfelves to thinkany thing as of ourfelves, but our fufficiencyis of God.” This calls the legalill, thatminds nothing but funding himfelf to duty;reckoning himfelf man enough for the dutiesof Chriftianity. The fum of the ynark is.The Chriftian communicant is refolute andperemptory for doing all; yet he is convincedthat he is fuilicient for nothing ?( *7 )Ufe 2. Here is like wife a’ground of com¬fort to Inch. Let not the high rockinefs, orbulk of the mountains difcourage thee, noryet the felt unfuccefsfulnefs of thy attemptshitherto. God hath faid, Worm Jacob Jballtbrejb the mountains, and beat them fmalhBe not afraid, only believe.Ufe 3. Laftly, Here is, moreover, a ftronginducement to all to come to ChrhL He willmake you threfli the mountains, and beatthem fmall. Come, ye that are wanderingon the mountains of vanity, and like to beworried on the mountains of prey, who arewreftling in the mountains of difficulty, be¬fore you come to Chrift, and ye ihall threfhthe mountains, and beat them fmall; andfhall make the hills as chaff.Thirdly, I fhall account for this myflery.Worm Jacob threffiing the mountains ofdifficulties in his way, and threfliing themaway cfuite and clean. How can this be ?1. GOD hath faid it, and therefore itcannot fail: “ Thou lhalt threfh the moun-ltains, and beat them fmall; and ffialt makethe hills as chaff.” Campare with Numb,xxiii. 19. ” GOD is not a man, that heIht-uld lie ; neither the fon of man, that hefhould repent. Hath he faid, and fhall henot do it ? Or hath he fpoken, and ihall henot make it good r” He fpake things intobeing, and they mud ftart out of the wombof nothing, or not being, at his word, which( 18 )calls them forth, Rom. iv. 17. There isas much ftretigth in Chrift, for worm Jacobto threfh and beat away the monntains, asthere was for making the world, and allthe mountains in it,Pfal. xxxiii. 9. He fpake,and it was done ! And, fhall not his word,that faid them into being, be as effedtual tofay them away again. Thus Jaitb the Lordyis enough to enfure the aceomplifhment ofthe hardeft things pnophefied.2. The glory of his grace ; which thegreat deugn of the whole myftery of godli-nefs furely requires. What does he intend Iby the myflery of Chrift, but the glory of jhis grace, Eph. i. 6. to {hew the exceedingriches of it, chap. ii. 7. Therefore he haschofen the way that leads flraight to thepoint, Rom. iv. 6. Therefore it is of faith,that it might be by grace. T. he worm isdefpicable in itfelf, but being the - fubjedtof glorious grace, if it {hall mifcarry in itsattempts, the glory of grace is funk, as theprecious loading with the {hip caft away. 6Wherefore, that his grace may be glorified, Iif it be a worm threlhing mountains, thofe jmountains mull needs be threfhed away bythat worm. Tho’ that facred fire be but•like a fpark in the midfl of the fea of cor-,ruption, it mull not only be preferved in,but drv up that fea quite clean.3, By an unalterable decree, there mu itbe a conformity betwixt the little worm( )and the g^eat Worm Jacob, the little one’s-kinfman Redeemer, Rom. viii. 9. “ Forwhom he did foreknow, he alfo did predelli-nate to be- conformed to the image of hisSon, that he might be the firft-bcrn amongj many brethren.” Now, the great Worm,the man Chriit, a worm, and no man, (Pfal.xxii. 6.) has encountered mountains, andthrefhed them away. Where are the fourmonarchies, the msft: towering mountainsthat ever fet up their heads on earth? Thechief Worm Jacob has threfhed them awaywith the wind, Dan. ii. 35. The mountainsflood before him, thro’ the world, with allthe faftnefs that human learning and thepower of the fvvord could give.; but, by hisfew iifhermen he threfhed them away, andthe prophecy is fulfilled, Pfalm Ixxii. 16.“ There fhall^be a handful of corn in theearth, on the top of the mountains; the fruitthereof fhall fliake like. Lebanon : and theyt)f the city fhall flounfh like the grafs ofthe earth.” Now many mountains handbefore the little worm, but where will thatconformity to heaven’s beloved pattern be,if they alfo do not threfh them away?4. The little worm Jacob is in realitybut a member of the great One, JefusChrift.Take away that, and worm Jacob is as in-fignificant for threihing ®f mountains as anyworm that crawls on the earth, John xv. 5.Without me, ye can do nothing. Fix that,( 20 )*and worm Jacob has a kind of divine omni¬potence, Ver. 7, “ If ye abide in me, and J;my words abide in you, ye fhall afk what |ye will, and it fhall be done unto you.” SPhilip, iv. 13.. J can do all things thro' Chrift., Swho ftrengtbnetb me. And it is fixed fb, '' that their threfhing is Chrifl’s threfhing, >Col. i. 24. And ye .may well allow Chrilt ;threfhing away mountains, with a littlefinger of his body: If, with the finger ofGod, he call out devils, with the lead ofhis fingers he may cad down mountains.5. Laftly, All the mountains that dandbefore worm Jacob, are burnt mountains;fo they are far eafier to threfh, one wouldthink. The mountain of the Babylonifhjmonarchy, that dood before the worm Jacob, |and barred his way feventy years; at lengthiGod fet a fire in the bowels of it, and made!it a burnt mountain ; and then bade wormlJacob threfh, and then it flies away with theiwind, Jer. ii. 25. “ Behold! I am againdpthee, O dedroying mountain, faith the Lord,,who dedroyeth all the earth! And I wuldretch out mine hand upon thee, and rollthee down from the rocks, and will make ,thee a burnt mountain.” By the deathand refurre&ion of Chrid, all the mountains .that dand between worm Jacob and heaver:are burnt mountains. Chrid has gone throV• the bowels of them with his fire, undenttheir confidance, and burnt thefe rocks U( 21 )lime ; they are nothing now but the fliapeof mountains, with a thin fcorched furface:they will give way at the threlhing ®f wormJacob, like the apples of Sodom, which,being touched, go to dull between one’sfingers. Micah ii. 13. “ The Breaker is1 gone up before them: they have broken up,and have palled thro’ the gate, and are goneout by it, and their king fhall pals beforethem, and the Lord on the head of them.Nahum ii. 12. All thy llrong holds Ihall belike fig-trees with the firll ripe figs : if theybe fhaken, they Ihall fall into the mouth ofthe eater.” Compare Ifa. xxvi. 19. “ Thydead men fhall live, together with my deadbody fhall they arife. Awake and fing, yei that dwell in the dull; for thy dew is as thedew of herbs, and the earth fhall call outher dead. Hofea xiii. 12. I will ranfcmthem from the power of the grave : I willredeem them from death. O death! I willbe thy plague : O grave ! I will be thydefinition : repentance fhall be hid fromi mine eyes.”1. The flruggle of the church with allI her adverfaries will have a furprifing andcomfortable ifi'ue at length. For as weakas fire is, and as ftrong and numerous asthey are, fhe will infallibly have fuccefs;furprifing fuccefs againfl them, attending.the encounter with them* Mic. iv. 11, &c.( 22 )And as to the prefent ftate of the church,learn,Firft, It is not at all ftrange, nor will itmake the cafe of this church hopelefs, thatprodigioufly high mountains, higher than;our fathers faw, are railed up againft her,iover-topping worm Jacob, and threateningto crufh him : Mountains of national guilt,of forty years gathering, laid upon the topof mountains of guilt raifed by our fathers ;jprofanify overflowing, and becoming faflii-onable; a confpiracy carried on in the houfeof her friends againft the grace of Chrill andferious godlinefs, to palm upon us refinecaHeathenifm for Chriftianity ! The founda-|tion ftruck at. Mountains of damnable!herefies, and blafphemies againft the perforfiof Chrilt, and divine authority of the Scrip-jjtures; and the advanced learning of the age!improved to thefe monftrous ends! But) •threfli on thefe mountains of appofition thaiHand in your way from earth or hell; thorli'flialt get thro’ them all at length, and thoufhalt Hand on the fea of glafs, Rev. xv. 2.2. Threfli on the mountains of trouble ■trials, and afflictions. Let none of then:be they never fo high and formidable, prevail to feparate betwixt God and you; the i1will be bent at lalt, and blown away fror nbefore you, Rev. vii. 9,10. 14, £?Y.3. Threfn on the mountains of corruption Yand indwelling fin. Threfh on every heigl.( 23 )thereof, particularly the top of it, that is,the fin that eafdj befets you, and infalliblyyou will get it down at length. Paul faysthis, while he was threfliing it, “O vVretchedman that I am, who lhall deliver me from, the body of this death ? I thank God, thro’Jefus Chri$: our Lo'rd,” &c. Rom. vii. 24.Say not, Alas! I am too weak, my threlh-ing will be in vain. No, tho’ you have no! more ftrength for it than a worm for a moun-1 tain, it will not be in vain. God will havethefe mountains threfhed by wormj.But thou wilt fay, Alas! I have threfhedlong without fuccefs. Anf. Threfh on themby patient enduring, till the mountain fall.Heb. vi. 15. After Abrham had patientlyendured, he obtained the promife. There isan oath binding betwixt the promife and itsaccomplilhment, that it cannot fail,ver. 19;Mind the walls of Jericho. Have ye nothad a partial fuccefs fometimes ? Makeprogrefs then, until you obtain a total.So it was with Chrift himfelf, Heb. ii. 8.“ Thou fhalt threfh the mountains, andbeat them fmall; and {hail make the hillsas chaff.”The laft mountain to be threfhed awayis death-, and ye fliall beat that fmall too,Death is fwallowed up in viElory, 1 Cor. XV.54. rt O death! where is thy fling ? O grave !•where is thy victory ?” Ver. 55.( 24 )•After all, it is a mighty wonder to fee-worm Jacob threfliing the mountains ! Butthe threfhing worm is fhod from heaven,and fo fitted to threfh.There are three things this threflunginilrument is fliod with, which muft infureits fuccefs, viz. The promife. of fuccefs,furniture provided for it, and the commandcalling to the work-To conclude, We may from hence fee,the vanity and fully of the rationalifis ofour time, in laying afide the proper thfeih-ing inffcrument, the doftrine of a crucifiedC hr ill, and fubftituting in the room thereofthe dry and faplefs doctrine of Heathenmorality; which God will never counternance for threfhing the corruptions, renew¬ing the hearts, or reforming the lives ofany, being contrary to the appointmentof God for that purpofe. But worm Jacob,influenced’by the promife, and excited bythe command of God, and ufing the propermeans, Jball tbrejli ibe mountains, and beatthem [mall; and jhall.makc tbe bills as cbaff.Amen.X [jF i • n i s..FALKIRK, PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.iSOj.