oTHEBOOKOFHEALTH;SELECTED AND TRANSLATEDFROMTHE GERMAN OF DR. FAUST.FOB THE USE OF THEINHABITANTS or SCOTLAND,BY THERECOMMENDATION OF DR. GREGORY.KILMARNOCK:PRINTED BT H. CRAWFOBD, BOOKSELLER.1830.ftL1BR4>T OF SCr/TURD *PREFACE.The nature and purpose of this publication will besufficiently explained by the following extract of aletter from Da. Gregory to the Editor.‘ I have now perused, with great attention andmuch pleasure, the translation of Dr. Faust’sCatechism of Health, which you put into my handsa few days ago. I adhere to the favourable opin-ion of it which I expressed to you after reading on- >ly two or three pages of it when you first shewedit me; and, as, in reading it over carefully, I putmy marks either of assent and approbation, or of ‘dissent, or of doubt to almost every proposition init; I can say, with confidence, that I think it awork of very extraordinary merit, and one that, ifit were generally known in this country, might beof infinite use. It is, indeed, the best popular me¬dical work l ever read : nor do I in the least won¬der at the extensive distribution, and the high esti¬mation of it in Germany.'‘ To the best of my judgment it contains moresolid good sense, and more useful information, inless bulk, than any medical book I ever saw, fromthe Aphorisms of Hippocrates to your last editionof the Family Physician inclusive; and what I rec¬kon of very great consequence, there is less mixtureof nonsense in it, which might either confound ormislead those for whose use it is intended.’‘ 1 highly approve your benevolent purpose ofreprinting it here, and diffusing it as generally aspossible.’‘ I think you should print a great many copies onthe cheapest paper, that the poor people may affordto purchase it, or, that those in more affluent cir-fiumsrances may be encouraged to purchase greatnumbers of them, and to distribute them amongtheir poor neighbours. By all means print a goodnumber in the handsomest manner on the finest pa¬per, to tempt fine people to buy and read it.’BOOK OF HEALTHOf Health; its Value, and the Duty of preserving it.Q. Can we possibly promote the perfection andhappiness of our souls, if we do not take proper careof our bodies ?A. No. God has so intimately united soul andbody, that by a rational care taken of the body,the happiness and purity of the soul is increased.Q. What is understood by a state of good health !!A. That the body is free from pains and infirmi-ties, fulfils its duties cheerfully and v/ith ease, andis always obedient to the soul.Q. How does he feel who enjoys health ?A. Strong ; full of vigour and spirits ; he relish¬es his meals is not affected by wind and weather ;goes through exercise and labour with ease, a»dfeels himself always happy.Q. And wh^t are the sensations of the sick ? Arethey like those we have described ?A. By no means; the sick man feels himself weakand languid ; he has no appetite; he cannot work,nor brave wind and weather ; and he labours undercontinual anxiety and pains.Q. What says the son of Sirach of health ?In Ecclesiasticus 30th Chapter, v. 14., 15, 16,he says, ‘ Better is the poor being sound and strongof c institution, than a rich man that is afflicted inhis body. Health and good estate of b'^dy are aboveall gold, and a strong body above infinite wealth.There are no riches above a sound body, and nojoy above the joy of the heart.'Of the Duration of Life, and the Sigm of Health.Q. How long is man destined to enjoy health?A. He ought to live almost uninterruptedly in aperfect state of health.4Q. What ought to be the state of health of theparents of a healthy person ?A. The father as well as the mother ought to bestrong and healthy, not deformed, nor subject tosuch diseases as may descend to their children, suchas the King’s Evil, Madness, Consumption, Epilep¬sy, &c. They both ought to have a good consti¬tution, and the prospect of attaining old age in goodhealth, and should be of a virtuous disposition.Q Why is it necessary for them to be virtuousfA. Because the virtue of the parents is discover¬ed in the children, and because virtuous parents en-courage their children by their example, to endea¬vour to become worthy and honourable membersof society.Q. What then must be the disposition of thoseparents, who wish to bring up virtuous and healthychildren ?A. They must be virtuous and healthy themselves.0/ the Construction, or Structure, of the Human Body^Q. How is the human body constructed ?A. With infinite wisdom and goodness, and inthe most perfect manner.Q. What have we in particular to observe withrespect to the perfect structure of the human body ?A. That it is endowed with the greatest and mostsalutary powers, tending to preserve life and health,to remove diseases, or to heal wounds.Q. If the body contain any thing unnatural, or ifit has been wounded, or othorwise hurt, so as tocause its functions to be obstructed, how do thosepowers act?A- They operate more or less powerfully to ex¬pel from the body all that is unnatural, or to healits wounds.q. What must men do, that they may be less ex¬posed to sickness.A. They must do every thing to recover theirnatural strength.Observation. By this strength, you must net under¬stand a rude but a cultivated strength, when thebody is accustomed to exercise, and is full of lifeand vigour.Q. By what means can man recover his naturalstrength ?A. By receiving a judicious and liberal education,and leading a prudent life.Q. By what particular means can a strong andhealthy body be injured or rendered unwholesome ?A. By a bad education, and corrupt way of liv¬ing; by intemperance in eating and drinking; byunwholesome food and spirituous liquors; bybreath¬ing bad or unwholesome air ; by Uncleanliness; bytoo great exercise, or by inactivity ; by heats andcolds; by affliction, sorrow, grief and misery ; andby many other means the human body may be in¬jured, and loaded with disease.On the Attending and Nursing of Infants.Q. How ought infants to be attended and nursed ?A They ought always to breathe fresh and pureair; be kept dry and clean, and plunged in coldwater every day. Q. Why so ?A. Because children are thus, at the time alludedto, made more placid, because not irritated; andthey grow and thrive better.Q. Is it good to swathe a child ?A. No. Swathing is a very bad custom, and pro-» duces in children great anxiety and pains; it is in-uj jurious to the growth of the body, and preventski childien from being kept clean and dry.Q. Is the rocking of children proper ?A. No. It makes them uneasy, giddy, and stu-iq pid ; and is therefore as hurtful to the soul as tothe body.6Q. Do children rest and sleep without being rock¬ed ?A. Yes. If they be kept continually dry andclean, and in fresh air, they will rest and sleep well,if not disturbed ; the rocking and carrying aboutof children is quite useless.As the human soul in a state of infancy is dis-turbed by rocking, carrying about and dancing,such practices ought to be considered as dangerousand erroneous.The mother ought to play with the child in anaffectionate and gentle manner; ought to give itfrequent and mild exercise, and instil gradually in¬to its mind a knowledge of such objects as attractits notice.Q. Is it in general necessary to keep children qui¬et ? A. Yes it is.Q. What is therefore very bad ?A. The making a great noise about children ; andit is still worse to frighten them.Q. It is, therefore, not advisable, l suppose tofrighten children into sleep ?A. By no means; because they may be throwninto convulsions by it.Q. Is it necessary or good to give children com¬posing draughts, or other medicines, that tend topromote sleep ?A. No. They cause an unnatural, and, of course,unwholesome, sleep ; and are very hurtful and dan¬gerous.Q. How long must a mother suckle her child ?A- From nine to twelve months.In fact the child ought to be suckled till it hastwo teeth in each }aw. Some children are suckledfor two or three years ; a practice not only errone¬ous, but hurtful both to mother and child.Q. What sort of aliment is prejudicial to thehealth of children ?7A. Meal-pap, pancakes, and tough, heavy andifat meats.Q. What harm do they do ?A. They obstiuct the bowels: and children’s bel-Ilies get, by those indigestible meals, hard and swel¬led.Q. What food is most suitable for children ?A. Pure, unadulterated, new milk, and gruel;bread or biscuit boiled with water only, or mixedwith milk.Q. Is it proper to chew the food before you giveit to children?A. No. It is disgusting and hurtful.Q. What is in general to be observed with regardill to the feeding of children?!A. That they be regularly and moderately fed,and their stomachs not loaded with milk or otherthings. It is therefore necessary to prevent peoplefrom giving children sweetmeats, or food out ofseason ; the feeding of the child ought to be entire.1 ly left to its mother.Q Do affectionate careful mothers act right| when they take their injfants with them to bed ?A. No. It is hurtful and dangerous: childrena ought, therefore, to lie by themselves.!Q. Is it necessary to keep infants very warm?IA. No. They must not be kept too warm.Q. Is it good to cover their heads?A. By no means; it causes humours to break out.From the hour of birth the head of a child oughtto be kept uncovered. Mothers will find that, evenin the coldest night, when they lay their hands onan infant’s head, it is always warm.Q. Children are eager to stare at every thing,I particularly at the light; what is to be observedwith regard to thisfA. They ought to be immediately turned so asto have the object in a direct line before them ; they8should never be suffered to look at it sideways, asthat would cause them to squint,Q. By what means is the getting of teeth render-ed difficult and dangerous?A. By caps; by keeping the head too warm; byuncleanliness, and improper food, over-feeding, badair, and w ant of exercise.Q. What is to be observed wdth regard to makingchildren walk ?A. They ought not to be taught to walk in strings,or chairs, or go-carts, cr be led by the arm ; theyought to be suffered to creep on the floor, till bydegrees they learn to walk.Q How can we best assist children in speaking ?A. We ought to pronounce the words to themvery distinctly and slowly ; first single sounds, andthen easy words.It is of the greatest importance that man, fromhis earliest infancy, should be accustomed to a dis¬tinct pronunciation.Q. What are the principal reasons why one-fourthof the number of children that come into the worlddie in the course of the first two years ?A. Want of fresh pure air, uncleanliness, bad in¬digestible food, particularly meal-pap; the anxietyand misery of parents are also among the causes ofthe death of so many children.0/the Treatment of Children •with respect to their Bodi s,from the Third to the Ninth or I ivelfth Tear.Q. What particular purpose is answered by chil¬dren living together ?A. They learn to know, to understand, and tolove each other, and so lay a foundation for una¬nimity, mutual fondness, and the happiness of theirlives.Q. But if children live in society merry and hap¬py together, can that have any influence upon themwhen they arrive at a state of maturity ?9A. Yes; it contributes very much to make man! spend his life, according to his destination, in vir-J tue and happiness.Q. Ought female children to receive the samej education as boys in their infancy ?A. Yes; that they may at a future period enjoy! the blessings of perfect heal h as well as men.The most pernicious consequences to the risingI generation flow from separating female children, atII the earliest period rf their existence, from mala[I children ; from dressing them in a different manner,i preventing them from taking the same kind of ex-I ercise, and compelling them to lead a more seden*a tary life.Q. What are the consequences of preventingchild-E: ren from taking the necessary exercises before thej ninth year ?A. Their growth is impeded, and they remaintil weak and sickly for life.Q. What effect will it have upon children if theynare kept to too hard work before the twelfth year?A. They will very soon grow stiff, and old be*rafore their time.|0/" Clothes Jit to le worn by Children from the begin'nlng of the Third to the End of the Seventh or Eighthy ar ; oj the shape of natural shoes ; of the perniciouseffects of stiff stays or jackets ; and the necessity ofpure fresh air.Q. How ought the heads of children to be kept?A. Beys, as well as girls, ought to remain un-[covered, winter and summer, by day and by night.Children with scurfy heads ought to keep theirheads cool, clean, and uncovered ; their hair cut,or repeatedly combed; which will be sufficient tocure the evil, for to cure it with salves is a verydangerous customQ. Can the sun or air be prejudicial to the skin?10A. No ; if proper care be taken tu keep the skinclean, they can do no harm.Q. But will not children be scorched by the sunif exposed to its heat without being covered ?A. No: those that are accustomed from their in-fancy to go uncovered will not be affected by thesun. Q. How is the hair to be kept?A. It ought not to be combed backwards, or tiedbehind ; but it ought to hang free round the headto protect it.Q. Ought the hair to be often combed ?A. Yes, it ought to be kept in order, and comb¬ed repeatedly every day ; which prevents verminfrom settling in it, and induces cheerfulness andliveliness.Q Is it right that the collars of shirts and neck¬cloths should press the neck and its veins?A. No ; the neck ought not to be squeezed ; and,therefore, children ought to have their necks bare.Q. How ought children’s garments to be arranged?A So as not to impede the free and easy motionsof the body, or prevent the access of the freshstrengthening air to it; they, therefore, ought to befree, wide, and open.Q What further is requisite for this dress ?A. It ought to be simple, clean, light, cool, cheap,and easy to put on or take off; it ought to be dif¬ferent in every respect from that of older or grown¬up persons-Q. How are the stockings of children to be made?A. They must be short, and not tied: it would,therefore, be advisable to let them only wear socks,to cover the feet in the shoes.Stockings, that cover the knees, may produceswellings in them; they ought therefore not to co¬ver the knees, nor be worn with garters.Q. Will not children find themselves too cold iftheir ankles are left bare ?/r11A. No; cold, if they are accustomed to it, willnot affect their ankles more than theif arms. Itwill strengthen their limbs: in short they will bekept sufficiently warm by the shift and frdck.Q. What is the form of the human foot?A. At the toes it is broad, the heel small, andthe inside of the foot is longer than the outside.Q, Why has it this form ?A. That man may walk and stand with ease andfirmness, and move his body freely.Q. How ought shoes, particularly those of child¬ren, to be formed ?A. They ought to have the same form as thefeet j they, therefore, ought not to be made by onebut two lasts, as the shape of the feet may indicate.Each foot may be laid upon a sheet of paper andits true shape drawn with a pencil, after which mo¬del two separate lasts may be made.Stays and stiff jackets are inventions of the mostpernicious nature } they disfigure the beautiful andupright shape of a woman, and instead of renderingher straight, as was formerly supposed, they makeher crook-backed ; they injure the breast and bow¬els -, obstruct the breathing and digestion; hurt thebreast and nipples so much, that many mothers areprevented by their use from suckling their children ;may hence get cancers, and at last lose both healthand life: they in general destroy health, and ren¬der the delivery of w'omen Very difficult and dan¬gerous both to mother and child.Q Is it advisable to wear clothes that have beenworn by people who were infected by epidemic dis¬orders, or who died thereof; or to make dresses ofthem for children ?A. No: it might cause an entire loss of health,and, perhaps of life.Q, What ought to be the state of the air in whichman liveth, and every moment breathes ?f12A. The air in which man liveth, and which hebreathes, ought to be fresh, clear, and dry.Q. Why ought it to be fresh, clear, and dry?A. Because it tends to refresh us, and make u»healthy, composed, and serene ; it encourages manto work cheerfully, excites appetite, improves health,and induces balmy sleep: in short, man finds him¬self exceedingly happy while he breathes fresh air.Q. Does he feel equally as comfortable when hebreathes bad, foul, and damp air?A. No ; in bad corrupted air man becomes weak,unhealthy, and irritable, loathsome and stupid; itoften causes fevers and many dangerous maladiesvery difficult to cure.Q. Is it very necessary that man should live infresh air, in order to enjoy a perfect state of health ?A. As necessary as eating and drinking; or asclean water is to fishes. Q. Why is it so?A, Because the air contains, as well as our food,vital principles, which cannot be dispensed with, orsupplied by any thing except the air we breathe.Q. By what means is air corrupted?A. The air is corrupted in houses and rooms thatare not sufficiently ventilated : besides, if in the vi¬cinity of the habitations of man there be morasses,or stagnant waters, they are sufficient to corruptthe air.Q. By what other means is air rendered noxious ?A. Vapours arising from damp foul things; thebreath and perspiration of many persons ; the smokefrom lamps, tallow candles, and snuffs; the steamfrom ironing linen ; the exhalations that arise fromcombing v/ool, and from burning charcoal, all tend,in a greater or less degree, to corrupt or depravethe air, and render it capable of impeding the actionof the lungs, or inducing suffocation.Q. What ought people to do that are much con¬fined to rooms or chambers?13A. They ought frequently to open their doorsitnd windows, in order to dissipate corrupted air,und admit the cooling, healthful breezes.Q. What other method can be devised to preventhe depravation of air in a room?A. By making two holes, one through the outerwall of the house, that will open into the room nearjhe floor ol it; the other near the ceiling, through}|he opposite inner wall or partition : the externaljitmosphere will entei at the hole near the floor, and(dissipate the foul air tlnough the aperture above.Q. What else ought people to do, to obtain solesirable an end ?A. They ought to keep their rooms clean, andn proper order ; nothing suptifluous, of that canjiipossibly conupt theair, ought to be suffered in them,i Q. What are the signs by which you may know[[whether rooms be clean and contain wholesome air?s A, When there are no cob-webs ia the corners,nr on the ceiling, of the room, nor dust, nor straw,jpor filth of any kind; when the windows are cleannd clear, and no offensive smell, or unpleasantensation, is experienced by a person who enters ithat has been just breathing the open air, we con-[jclude that it is as it ought to be.1 Q. Is it necessary for man to breathe fresh airhen asleep ?A. Yes; it is necessary that he breathe goodholesome air, whether awake or asleep ; curtainsncompassing a bed, and narrow bedsteads, areherefore very unwholesome.Observation, to cover children’s faces when theyare asleep is a bad custom, tor they are thereby de-orived of fresh air.Q. If people that are much confined to their rooms,ere careful to live always in fresh air, what woulde the natural consequence ?A. Instead ot being unhealthy, weak, and squa-14lid, and labouring under cold, and hoarseness, theywould be much more healthy, content* and happy,and live longer.Observation. To bury the dead in or near townsand villages is very injurious and dangerous to theliving.Of Cleanliness :—Washing and Bathing.Q. Of what use is cleanliness to man?A. It preserves his health and virtue j it clears hisunderstanding, and encourages him to activity ; itprocures him the esteem of others ; and none butclean people can be really cheerful and happy.Q How far is uncleanliness injurious to man ?A. It corrupts his health and virtue; it stupifieShis mind, and sinks it into a lethargic state; it de¬prives him of the esteem and love of others: be¬sides, unclean people can never be really merry andhappy.Q. Does uncleanliness cause any maladies ?A, Yes; uncleanliness and bad air, which arecommonly inseparable, produce fevers, which arenot only very malignant and mortal, but contagiousalso.Q. What must be done to keep the body clean ?A. It is not sufficient to wash the face, hands,and feet; it is also necessary, at short intervals, towash the skin all over the body, and to bathe fre¬quently.Q. Is washing and bathing the whole body whole-some ?A. Yes, it is very good ; for it begets cleanliness,health, strength, and ease ; and prevents catarrhs,cramps, rheumatism, palsy, the itch, and manyother maladies.Q. Why is the keeping the body so clean of sogreat importance ?A. Because the half of whatever man eats orilrinks is evacuated by perspiration ; and if the skins not kept clean the pores are stopped, and perspUlation consequently prevented, to the great injury>f health.Q. What rules are to be observed with respect toirathing ?A. 1. That you be careful to bathe in places whereproa are not exposed to danger.2 That you feel yourself thoroughly well and|jn good health, and that you be not over-heated at: he time of going into the bath, which should notoe immediately after a meal.3. That you go not into the bath slowly, anday degrees, but plunge in all at once.4. That after bathing you do not sit or liedown, but walk about leisurely.Q. Is it not necessary after meals to clean or washthe mouth ?A. Yes; immediately after each repast the mouthought to be cleansed with cold water : the gumsand teeth are thus preserved sound and good, andfe tooth-ach prevented.y. What ought you particularly to do when youash yourself ?A. We ought always to immerse our faces in thewater, and keep them so for a little time.Q. Is it sufficient that man keep his body clean /A. No ; he must also keep his clothes clean, andi all that is about him ; his apartments, bods, andurniture : and they ought also to be kept in order.Q. What kind of food doth man generally par-ake of ?A. Bread, vegetables, fruit, milk, fish, and meat.Q. Which of these yields the greatest nourishment?A. Meat, or animal food, which is more nourish,ing than vegetables.Q. Of what ought our meals to consist?A. Chiefly of vegetables.16Q. What leads most to promote hunger and di<gestion?A. Bodily exercise, especially in the open air.Q. Is it best to eat simple food ?A. Yes. It is destructive of health to partakeof many different dishes, or of such as are prepared “with much art; for they are very difficult of diges- 1lion, and afford bad and unwholesome nourishment.!Q, If our food be not sufficiently chewed and isconverted into a pap-like substance, what is the|consequence ?A It cannot be digested sufficiently ; and un4 'digested food yields bad nourishment to the oody,over loads the stomach, and induces a weak, mot4bid state of the whole constitution.Q. Is it good to drink much at meals ? !-A. No ; too much drink renders our food toofluid.Q. Does fluid aliment afford wholesome andstrong nourishment ?A, No. Food of whatever kind, in order thatit may afford proper nourishment, ought to be sub¬stantial ; it is therefore necessary to eat bread withfluid aliment.Q. Is hot bread or cakes wholesome ?A. No ; they are very unwholesome ; they maycause sickness and death.Q. Are potatoes wholesome ?ri. Yes, and very nourishing.Q. Are ripe fruits and acid substances whole-1some ?A. Yes ; they cleanse and refresh the body.Q. Are fat meats wholesome, and is it good togive much butter to children ?A. No ; butter and all fat aliments are difficultof digestion ; and prejudicial to health.Q. Is dried, smoked, salted, or high-seasonedmeat wholesome ?17A. No ; it is unwholesome, and children oughti lot to eat such meats.Q. What is in general to be observed with re-pect to the feeding of children ?A, They ought to be fed regularly every day attated times; their food ought to be mild andourishing, that they may grow and thrive well.Q. Is it good to give children dainties, cakes, orweetmeats ?A. No. Children are thereby rendered too fondHf their bellies, become gluttons, and degeneraterom the dignity of their nature.On Drink.Q. For what purpose is it necessary that manhould drink ?A. To quench his thirst; but not to gratify hisalate,or to strengthen his stomach, or with a viewence to nourish him ; for all such notions arerrong and against nature,Q. What kind of beverage therefore is the mostCold water.Jjbroper:; Q. What advantage do we derive from drinkingIfcold water ?I A. Cold water cools, thins, and clears the blood ;it keeps the stomach, bowels, head, and nerves inBorder, and makes man tranquil, serene, and cheer-$ul.Q- What kind of water is the best for drinking?>| A. Pure, clear water, without taste, smell, orffolour ;—water in which soap will readily dissolve,and peas readi'y soften, if boiled in it.Q. Is beer a wholesome beverage?A, Light, well-brewed beer is not injurious tohe health of grown-up persons; though certainlyood water is much better, and more wholesome.Q. Are warm dr'nks, such as coffee, tea, &c,vholesome ?¥ -18A. No. The only wholesome beverage is colewater; all warm drinks weaken the stomach andbody ; they do not cleanse the bowels, nor purifythe blood, and are, therefore, unwholesome amfhurtful to health.Q. Why are people, particularly women, so fondof tea and coffee ?A. Because, for want of exercise, they have ncnatural or real thirst; and because they have beetused to them from their infancy.Of Wine.Q Is wine wholesome, when drunk often, or aa common beverage ?A. No; it is not. Wine is very hurtful to thehealth, the intellects, and the happiness oi manQ. Wine as a medical potion, comforts the sick,and strengthens the weak; but does it afford anyreal strength or nourishment to the healthy ?A. No; it only o'rer-heats, without procuringreal strength ; for it cannot be converted into goodblood, flesh, or bone.Q. Does wine contribute to the digestion of ourmeals ?A. No; it does not. Those that drink water eatwith a better appetite, and digest better, than thosethat drink wine.Q. What consequences ensue from drinking winecontinually ?A. The tongue loses its delicacy of taste, andrejects water and mild simple food ; the stomachgrows cold and loses its natural vigour, and man,under the false idea of giving warmth to his sto¬mach, gains by degrees a passion for drinking, whichleads him at last to habitual drunkenness.Of Brandy.Q. Is brandy a good liquor ?A No.19H - *'!Q. Tell me now, what becomes of children that'Sink spirituous liquors?J A. Children and young persons who drink bran-r, or other spirituous liquors, beconte unhealthy,[ |ippled, stupid, rude, lazy, vicious, and depraved,inth as to mind and body.( Q. Doth brandy or any other spirituous liquor,:stroy or prevent worms in the bowels? A. No.i I Exhortation Fathers and mothers, if you wish toi btain the blessing of the Almighty in an especialr anner—if you aspire after heavenly rewards, take: ire not to suffer your children to drink of spiritu->sl quors, not even a single drop.0/ Tobacco.Q. Is the smoking of tobacco good ?I A. No; it is not good, for much of the spittle,hich is necessary for digestion is thereby lost, andiri is hurtful to health, to the teeth, and to the or-nians of taste.) Observation. The chewing of tobacco is equallypernicious,^ Q. is the taking of snuff proper?!!i A. No; it is a very bad custom, as the nosevhrough which man breathes is stuffed up by it, theImportant sense of smell destroyed, and uncleanli-mess and loss of health induced by its use.0/ Exercise and Rest.Q. What advantage doth man derive from bod-y exercise, activity, and labour?i A. Bodily exercise, particularly in the open air,i reates hunger and thirst, helps the digestion of our( ood, and makes it nourishing ; it purifies the blood,ifeeps the bowels healthy, and causes rest and soundjrleep.Q, Can any body remain in a good state cf health,| viihout much bodily exercise ?20A. No; God has given to man, not without aiwise design, a body, hands, and feet: he is to makeuse of them and labour, and through labour to pre¬serve life and health, to promote his own happiness, ;and that of his fellow creatures.Q. But cannot exercise and labour hurt a man ?A. By all means: if man exceeds the bounds ofreason, and of his natural powers, he may hurt,himself.Q. Is it good to take much exercise, or work hard .immediately befo-e or after dinner ?A. No; a little rest before and after dinner isnecessary, and promotes appetite and digestion, re*cruits the powers of the body, and fits it for futurework. ,Admonition. He who owes his birth and educationto healthy, strong, sensible, virtuous, and industri* .ous parents, who, from his infancy, has constantlybreathed fresh, pure, and dry air; whose skin andapparel are always kept clean: who, with regardto his meals, observes moderation and order, anddrinks no brandy or other spirituous liquors ; whosehabitation is orderly, clean, dry, and lightsome;who has been accustomed from Ins infancy to orderand cleanliness, to assiduity and industry, and whosereason and virtue have been fortified and improvedin his y >uth by instruction and example ; who fearsGod, loves mankind, and does justice; who workssix days out of seven for the maintenance of his wifeand children :—he only enjoys terrestrial bliss; heis truly happy, and may, anticipating the joys ofeternal felicity, brave all the horrors of death.Of Sleep.Q. Ought children to sleep much ?A. Yes ; children and young people that are con.stantly in motion when awake, ought to sleep morethan grown people./21|| Q. Cannot we sleep too much, and so injure ourIiealth ?A. Yes ; when we have not had much exercise inhe open air, and consequently are not tired, andIvhen we, during our sleep, breathe corrupted air,>r lie in warm feather-beds, we find ourselves afterIBCire time lazy, stupid, and unhealthy.11 Q. Ought we to sleep in cool, fresh, and clean air?, A. Yes; and it therefore behoves us not to sleepn warm sitting rooms, but in cool, lofty roomyhambers, that have fresh air; whose windows arej'rept open in the day time ; and in beds without cur-rains, or with curtains not to be drawn,Q What kind of bed is fittest for grown up per-ons ?A Mattresses sti fifed with horse hair, or straw,ove-red with a blanket or quilt But when peopledeep on feather-beds, they ought to air and beathem well in summer-time once a week, and in win-er once in a fortnight, and often change their bed-inen.Q. What is farther to be observed with respect to^leep ?A. We ought not to lie down till we are tired,icr remain in bed after we awake in the morning.Q. Ought the head and breast to be laid higher(in bed than any other part of the body ?A. No ; nor ought we to lie on our backs, but al-ternately on either side,in a some what bended position,:aking care not to fold our arms round our heads.Q. What is to be done with beds in which sick:ople have lain JA. They are for many days to be well aired andiieateu ; but if the disease has been contagious, thesed ought to be burnt, or buried deep in the ground.Of the Habitationi of Man.Q. When habitations are dark, fusty, and damp,22what effect do they produce on those that live inthem ?A. People in such habitations are rendered un¬healthy and v^eak, paralytic and sick; they grow vstupid, simple, ill-natured, and miserable : and lit¬tle children grow pale in damp rooms; they swell, !become consumptive, and die.Q. How can such rooms be improved?A. By the repeated and daily admission of fresh 3air into them; or, what is still better, by holes madein the two opposite walls of the house, one near thefloor, through which the external air constantly pas¬ses, and expels the foul air through the hole made ; ‘near the ceiling.Q. Ought rooms and chambers to be lofty and 3spacious ?A. Yes; the more lofty and spacious they ate,the less liable will the air be to corruption.Q. How often should they be swept and cleaned ?A. All inhabited rooms and chambers ought tobe cleaned every day.Q. But is it good to sit in very warm rooms inwinter-time ?A. No; very warm rooms are very unwholesome,and make people weak, simple, stupid, and sick.Q Is it wholesome to dry clothes in rooms, orboil water in ovens, where the steam cannot ascendas in a chimney?A. No; damp vapours corrupt the air very much,and are therefore unwholesome.Q- If one be very much chilled in winter, mayhe immediately approach the fire, or a hot stove?,A. No; for chilblains are produced by exposureto heat after intense cold.0/ Thunder and Lightning.Q May one shelter himself in a thunder-stormunder a tree ?23A. No ; it is very dangerous. Trees and vapour*' iwhich encompass them, attract the lightning, andi ipersons standing under them are in the utmost dan-i iger of their lives.Q. What precautions are people to take when ati home during a thunder-storm ?A. They are, when the storm is still at a distance,: to open the doors and windows of their rooms, cham-v jbers, and stables, in order to expel all vapours, andi:|fill them with fresh air. When it draws nearer, thei: windows are to be shut, and the doors left open,s that fresh air may be admitted, avoiding carefully1 a free steam of air They are, further, to keep ata proper distance from walls, chimneys, and ovens,wjaad from all iron and metal, in particular from longi. 'son rods or wires.I0/ over-heating ourtelvet, and catching Cold.Q If, through violent bodily exercise, labour,aiming, or dancing, we have over-heated ourselves,what ought we not to do ?A, 1. We ought not immediately to sit down orisrest ourselves.2. Drinking immediately after such violent exer-: i!:ise any thing cold, or even brandy or other spirit*fjjous liquor, is highly improper.3. We ought not to expose our bare skin to the• I bold air.> We ought not to go into the cold bath : whenH||horoughly wet from rain, it is proper to walk about,if 5. We ought not to sit down on the ground, or>n the grass : and we should be particularly care-ul not to fall asleep, otherwise sickness, lameness,>r perhaps consumption will be the consequences.Gf the Beauty and Perfection of the Human Body.Q. By what particular means may health be at-sained ?A. By free and easy exercise during infancy; free24j 'pure air} washing and bathing; a light easy dress;clear cold water for drinksng; and simple goodmeals to nourish the body.Q. By what means is the perfection of the bodyto be attained ?A. By avoiding sloth and inactivity till the twelfth .year, after which plays and exercises will bring thebody to every degree of perfection of which it issusceptible.Q. What is yet necessary to facilitate the improve- jmem of the body ?A, The instruction of children in the various ex- jerctses of the body which tend to render man heal- |thy, strong, industrious, and happy.Q. What posture of the body ought we to recom- {mend to children and to every onei* J jA. The erect posture, whether we stand or walk, |keeping the breast and head elevated and on all oc- Icasions that will admit of it an upright posture is 1best.Q. Is it proper to accustom children to make useon all occasions of the right hand only ?A. No; that is very wrong. Children are to betaught to make the same use of the left hand as ofthe right.Q. What does most diminish beauty?A The habit which children sometimes contractof making wry faces and foolish gestures.Q. I< the beauty of man all that depends on hisperfection ?A. No; innocence and peace, reason and virtue,the consciousness of having done one’s duty, andcontributed toward the general good, in endeavour¬ing to diffuse happiness among mankind in this ter¬restrial abode, all shew the perfection, the beauty,and dignity of man.FINIS.