CHEAP TRACTS, No. 14.(Second Edition.)For the Farmers’ Ingle-neuk.CONSISTING OFTHE MURDERER DISCOVERED,THE SPOILED CHILD,T HE BROKEN B R I D G E,ANDA Lesson on Domestic Management.rAJTALES.The first and second of the following Tales are ex¬tracted from “ the Stotcli Cheap Repository Tractsand the third and fourth from “the Cottagers of Glen-burnie books, -whieh from the important lessonsthey convey—as to the manners and practices of hum¬ble life, deserve a place in every Cottage Library.THE MURDER DISCOVERED.I accompanied the gentlemen into the garden,and was shewn the place Avhere her own fatherfound his murdered daughter. The grass wasred with blood, and the marks of feet were quitevisible on the ground, which happened to be softand wet. In endeavouring to trace the foot¬steps, we observed that they led over someground which had been newly dug with the spadeand that they had made a remarkably distinctimpression on the loose soil. On examiningthat impression, we saw that there was some¬thing particular in the form of the shoe. It wasuncommonly troad and large, and round-toed,sand, from its shape, gave reason to suspect thatits wearer was what is called fla'F-soled. Ithad also been lately pieced at the heel and toe,and armed with broad-headed tacks, the printsof which were distinctly marked. This was animportant discovery, and Mr Johnson, whowas accustomed to use his pencil, set himself,with the assistance of the surgeon, to take a cor¬rect measurement and drawing of dt on paper.In the meantime, Mr Thomson and I conti¬nued the search, and having traced the footstepsto the garden wall, the good minister, whohappened to be before me, uttered an exclama¬tion of horror, and directed my attention to astone on the top of the wall which was stainedwi;h blood. On looking more minutely, wesaw the marks of bloody fingers on the stone,and concluded that the murderer liad made hisretreat out of the garden at this place. Aplow ed field on the other side of the wajl favour¬ed our further search, and we tracked the vil¬lain to a small piece of water w'here be had pro¬bably washed Ids hands, and through which hoappeared to have waded, as the prints of feetwere seen on the opposite bank, f threw otfmy shoes and stockings, and followed the coursewe supposed the murderer had taken as aecyTlately as I could ; but as the ground on theother side w as covered with wood, I could tracehim no farther. On my return, I observedsomething bright at the bottom of the water,which I took up, and found to be a large clasp-knife, with the letters R. S. scratched rudely4on the handle. I shuddered to think that withthis very instrument the fatal deed was probablycommitted, and we were confirmed in this opi¬nion by discovering marks of blood on the han¬dle, which the water had not wholly washedaway.When the ceremony of interment was over,andbefore any person began to retire, Mr Thom¬son, standing on a grave-stone, informed thecompany, that it was the wish of the sheriffthat no person should be permitted to leave thechurch-yard till an examination had taken place,which might serve to throw some light on thisdark and horrid business. ’Huzza!’ cried Ro-BEKT Stewart ; ‘that’s right! I’ll guard theyett, and let none out.’ ‘You are saved thattrouble, young man, replied Mr Thomson, forthere are constables already posted at the gate,and none need attempt to escape. I must re¬quest every person,’ continued he,‘ to sic downon the grass in the vacant space at the northside of the church, arranged as nearly in rowsas possible. That you may not think this re¬quest unnecessary, I will explain to you thereason of it. The murderer, whoever he was,left the impression of his shoe on some new dugground near the spot where the crime was com¬mitted, An accurate drawing of the form anddimensions of that impression has been taken bymy friend Mr Johnson, and is now in my hand.Our intention is to examine the feet of all whoare present, and compare their shoes with thisdraught, in hopes that this measure may tend5to detect the guilty person.’ My eyes weresteadily fixed on Robert Stewart during thisspeech, and I observed his face turn red andpale by turns. The marks of guilt were visible,I thought, on his countenance; hut whenMr Thomson ceased speaking, he had recoveredhimself sufficiently to exclaim, hat good illthat do! D’ye think the man that killed the lasswad hae the face to come here ? or, if he washere, how could you find him out by the sted o’his foot ? A hunder folk may ha'e shoon o’ theI same size, and if made by ae shoemaker, theymay be o’ the same shape too. It may mak’innocent folk suspected, and will do mair ill thangood; sae for my part I vvinua consent till’t.Come let us be off lads/ As he spoke, he pull¬ed some of his companions by the arm, and tur¬ned towards the gate with the intention o.making his escape. ‘The first man that leavesthe church-yard before he is examined,’ criedMr Johnson from among the crowd, ‘will betaken up as a suspected person, and committedto jail. I have the authority of the sheriff forsaying so.’ A murmur of approbation succeed¬ed ns speech, and Stewart turned back in-*Itimidated, and seated himself on a grave-stone ata little distance, folding his arms across hisbreast, and kicking his heels against one of thefeet of the stone, in order to appear very muchat his ease. As soon as silence was obtained,Mr T tOMSON, in a few simple words, refutedStewart’s objections, and at the same Tmeheld up to public view Mr Johnson’s drawingfof the footstep, to convince the people that therewas something so remarkably peculiar in itsshape* there could be little doubt of finding outthe person to whom it belonged by the meansproposed. Every one now seemed eager to havehis shoes examined, arid hastened to set himselfon the grass. Two shoemakers were employedto take the measurement, and Mr Johnsonaccompanied them with the drawing in his hand.Stewart had placed1 Himself in the-middle ofthe crowd, and I saw him make one or twounsuccessful attempts to shift his seat, so as to-escape examination. When at last’ his1 turn'catne, his colour suddenly changed 'to a deadlypale, and with a horrid groan he -fell senselesson the ground. H ; was restored by the appli¬cation of some water which was quickly procured,and, looking wildly round him, he exclaimed,* ^ ou cannot say that I did it! It was dark—who satv me ? ‘ God- xMmighty saw you, un¬happy young man !’ said Mr Johnson in a1 tonewhich thrilled through my heart ; for he hadJnow taken the dimensions of Stewwrt’s shoe,and found it corresponded in every particular tothe copy he had drawn. The murderer, for Ihad now no doubt that this was he, having re¬covered his strength, started up on his feet, anddrawing a sharp pointed knife from his pocket,threatened to stab to the heart the man that laid*hands on him. He then made a- desperatespring, and before any person had sufficient pre¬sence of mind to prevent him, reached the churelwyard wall, which he cleared without difficulty,7but losing his balance when he reached the otherside, he stumbled forward, and fell on the pointof his knife. He was now overtaken and se¬cured, and as he was losing much blood, he wasconveyed to the manse, which happened to bethe nearest house; the surgeon, who was present,attending him for the purpose of dressing hiswound. The knife had entered the bowels, andmade a dangerous wound, which the surgeonimmediately pronounced likely to prove mortal.The unfortunate wretch overheard the opinionof the surgeon, and cried out with a savage joy,which filled every person present with horror.‘ Then I’ll disappoint the law yet. If I couldna n*ik’ my escape in ae way, I’ll do it inanother. Sleep, sleep, they say, it’s a sleep.’‘ Alas ! young man,’ said.Mr Thomson, shud¬dering as he spoke, ‘ in. that, sleep there areawful dreams to the wicked. Dreams, do I say ?they are horrible realities. God grant that youmay not find—’ ‘ It’s a lie!’ interrupted he witha dreadful oath, ‘ I’ll no believe it—sae ye needna preach to me,” Mr Thomson, finding hecould do no.goodby continuing the conversation,left the room ; and it was not long after this helearned, that the wretched murderer died, stillhardened and impenitent.THE SPOILED CHILD.Musing on long-gone-by times I approachedmy brother’s cottage, and a thousand little inci-3dents of tny early days rushed inti my remem¬brance. This stone,’ said I to myself, ‘ was thestarting place of our races, and that gate wasour goal. Round yonder aged thorn we usedto hunt the hare, and rest beneath the shadewhen we were tired of the mimic chase. Herestands the pld stump, where many a summer’sevening I have sitten, preparing my morning’stask ; there runs the little stream, where I havemade and unmade so many ponds, and cascades,and islands. I was just beginning to moralizeon the happy period of childhood, when I foundmyself at my brother’s door. A new train ofsentiments and feelings now swelled my heart,and 1 was about hastily to enter, when 1 heardsounds within not at all in unison with the mildserenity of nature out of doors, or with the brightvisions of peace and joy, which so many fondrecollections had presented to my imagination.‘ Be a gude bairn ! be a guile bairn, this mo¬ment!’ cried an angry female voice, wh’lst thelittle rebel she addressed screamed as loud as hecould bawl. ‘ If you dinna hand your tonguedirectly, I’ll send for the minister. Look !yonder he’s coming to tak you awa’ in his poc¬ket. Vv heest!’ Terror for a moment got thebetter of passion, and the little fellow, checkinghis cries, looked towards the door, bjut seeingnobody, for 1 kept myself concealed, he wasconvinced that his mother was deceiving him,and renewed the roar of rage and defiance.‘ Here, bogle man,’ cried the disappointedmother, endeavouring to overpower him by in-9creasing the object of fear, ‘here, tak’ him;lie’s an ill bairn. This mode of education wasso contrary to all my ideas of propriety, that Icould stand it no longer, and I hastily openedthe door. The child, a fine little fellow aboutfour years old, uttered a loud scream of despairas soon as he saw me, and, starting up, ran intoa corner, where he hid himself behind a table ;whilst his elder brother and sister, who weresitting by the fire, sprang with equal marks ofhorror into a bed, and covered themselves withthe bed-clothes. The mother, too, was at firstevidently confused and alarmed ; and 1 am sure,if the bogle man himself had made his appearance,he could scarcely have created greater consterna¬tion. After having, amidst all this noise andbustle, with some difficulty introduced myself tomy sister-in-law, whom I had never before seen,1 was received with a very hearty welcome,and my name-son George, the eldest boy, who,ashamed of his fears, came slinking ont of bed,was despatched to carry the tidings of my arrivalto his father.•• My dear brother came quickly in from thefield, and received me with a smile of such ten¬der affection, that,! totally forgot the disagreeablescene I had witnessed, till the little culprit be¬hind the table, cured of his fears, but findinghimself overlooked and neglected, suddenlybrought himself into notice, by bursting out a-new into a bitter squall of vexation and disap¬pointment. My brother, after his wife hadbriefly explained to him the circumstances of the10case, turned to the little boy, and in a softsoothing' voice said, ‘ Did they frighten my weeJock with the bogles ? I think they were naeblate. Ah ! ah !’ continued he, pretending tostrike the mother, ‘ tak’ ye that, nasty mammy,for sending for the bogles. Come to daddy, mydear pet, and the bogles shallna touch ye. Awa,’dirty bogles, ye shallna touch my gude bairn.’jock, however, had a will of his own, and heknew from experience, that by holding out hecould bring his father to his own terms. Hetherefore obstinately refused to leave his hiding-place, and persisted in crying, though in a lowertone. Come awa’, my bonny man’, resumedthe fond father, pretending to search for some¬thing in his pocket, ‘ come awa,’ and see what Ihae gotten here. Here’s an apple for a goodboy. A bonny red dheekit apple! There’s agood bairn. Isna he a gude bairn, uncle George?I made no answer to this appeal, but waited insilence to see how this curious scene would end.In the meantime, the little fellow, bribed by thedeceitful promise, came slowly from his cor»er,and, with his finger in his mouth, walked up tohis father’s knee. My brother took him in hisarms, and wiping his face, which was all be-slabbered with tears and dirt, called him ‘his dear, gude wee Jockey,’ and kissed him from ear toear. Wee Jockey, however, was not easilycajoled. ‘ Where’s my apple ? Gie’s the apple !Gie’s the apple I tell ye!’ was so often and sofirmly repeated, that the indulgent father, whohad no apple to give, began to repent of his11! stratagem, when the mother relieved him bythinking of an expedient. ‘ Here, Jenny,’ criedshe, winking at her daughter, and pretending toi put money into her hand ; ‘ here ; rin to thei shop, and buy the bairn an apple. Mak’ haste,i now.’ Then taking him on her knee, she sanglullaby to him, till, exhausted by his exertions,; lie fell fast asleep, and was safely lodged in bed.‘ Had this child been properly brought up,’ said1 to myself, how much easier would it havebeen to have settled all this mighty affair by a! single look of authority, and how much better,too, both for his head and heart 1” But 1 couldnot let the present occasion pass, without seri-‘ii ously admonishing my relatives on the improprietyi of such conduct towards their-children.I have already taken frequent opportunities,i said I, of making you acquainted with my ideasi: respecting the proper method of training yourchildren at home ; but it is of so much impor-i tance that you should have correct views on thisf subject, that I could not feel satisfied were I tot neglect this opportunity of repeating them. Thisr is the more necessary, as 1 have by my illnessI been prevented from committing my thoughts towriting as I intended. The great difficulty inthe education of children, as it seems to me, isto hit the proper medium between gentleness andseverity. Harshness breaks and sours thetemper ; too much indulgence enfeebles the mind,or sets the passions loose from all restraint. Letit be your constant aim, therefore, to hold thereins of authority with s gentle but steady hand.12Be the friend and not the tyrant of your family.Show your children that you love them, and theywill love you in return. Treat them with con-hdeuce, and they will open their hearts to you.At the same time, do not let a mistaken tender¬ness prevent you from administering- correctionwhen necessary. Remember, that ‘ he thatspareth the rod hateth the child but take carethat reason, not passion, direct the punishment.For a simple accident, however vexatious £nddistressing it may be, your child is not account¬able ; for carelessness let him be reproved ; forwilful neglect or disobedience let him be whipped.Let your children clearly understand that youpunish them not to gratify your own humour,but to perform a necessary though painful dutyto them, and that you chasten them becauseyou love them. Neither promise, nor threatenat random. What you promise, punctually per¬form ; what you threaten, rigoroasly inflict. Letnot your child say in his heart, ‘ My fatherdeceives me.’ 1 know you too well to supposethat you would be guilty of the meanness of alie in your intercourse with your equals, but Ifear you have not been accustomed to be so nicelyscrupulous in your management of your children;and yet you cannot commit a greater error thanto tell an untruth. If, for your own convenience,you fall into a habit of alarming them into obe¬dience by frightful stories or other falsehoods,they will not fail to find out the deceit, and theywill learn both to imitate and despise you. Alltrick and cunning in education is detestable.13Children, after the age of infancy, become ra¬tional creatures. Your two elder children areold enough in many instances to be governed byreason. Let them learn to respect your judge¬ment, as well as to reverence your authority.But in exacting obedience from the youngest, itis enough to say, ‘ This must he done becauseyour father commands it, and he knows what isbest for you.’ Be particularly careftd to showno preference to one child more than another,except on account of good conduct. A favouriteis always unhappy. His temper is spoiled bothby the foolish fondness of his parents, and theenvious resentment of his little companions.Above all things, teach your children to remem¬ber their Creator and Redeemer in the days oftheir youth. Let religion be the foundation ofall their actions. Let them learn to feel thatthey are constantly in the view of an All-seeingEye, and that the very thoughts of the heart arenaked and open before Him. In inculcatingthese duties, never forget that example is betterthan precept. What you teach you children, becareful to practise yourselves. You wish to seethem perform with fidelity all the religious,moral, and personal duties ; set before them,then, a pattern of those duties in your ownconduct.”uTHE BROKEN BRIDGE,Or, hints Jor keeping Good Roads.While Mrs Mason was enjoying the kindhospitality of Gowan-bnae, in order .to gratifythe boys, it was proposed, that the whole familyshould accompany her to Glenkuruie, in an Irishcar, a vehicle well adapted to such -excursion,and which was consequently a great favouritewith the younger part of the family. Just asthey finished an .early dinner, the car was.hroughtto the door. Robert, the eldest boy beggedleave to drive, and, (Vaulting into his properstation, seized the reins ; and, after two .gentlestrokes with the whip, prevailed on old grey tomove forward, which he did very sagaciously,with less speed than caution, until they reachedthe turnpike road, where he mended his paceinto a sober trot, which in less than two hoursbrought them to the road that turns in to theGlen, or valley of Gleuburnie.The road, which winded along the foot ,ol thehills on the north side of the Glen, owed aslittle to art as any country road in the kingdom.It was very narrow, and much encumbered byloose stones, brought down from tire hills aboveby the winter torrents. How little troublewould it cost,” said Mr Stewart, “ to throw thesmaller of these loose stones into these holes andrats ; and to remove the larger ones to the side,where they would form a fence between the roadand the hill 1 There are enough of idle boys inthe Glen to effect all this, by working at it loi15one hour a-week during' the summer. But thentheir fathers must unite in setting them to work;and there is not one in the Glen who would notsooner have his horses lamed, and his carts tornto pieces, than have his son employed in a workthat would benefit his neighbours as much ashimseif!”At the foot of a short precipice, the road againmade a sudden turn, and discovered to them amisfortune which threatened to put a stop to theirproceeding any further, for the present evening.It was no other than the overturn of a cart ofhay, occasioned by the breaking down of a bridge,along which it had been passing.At first indeed, neither boy nor horse wereseen ; but as Mr Stewart advanced to examinewhether, by removing the hay, which partlycovered the bridge, and partly hung suspendedon the bushes, the road might still be passable,he heard a child’s voice in the hollow, exclaiming,“ Come on, ye muckle brute! ye had as weelcome on ! I’ll gar ye! I’ll gar ye ! That’s agude beast now; come nwa ! That’s it! Ay,ye’re a gude beast now.”As the last 'A ords were uttered, a little fellow,of about ten years of age, was seen issuing from' a hollow, and pulling after him, with all his might,a great long-backed clumsy animal of the horsespecies, though apparently of a very mulishtemper.“You have met with a sad accident,” saidMr Stewart, “ how did all this happen ?”1G“ V on may see how it happened plain eneugh,”returned the boy, ‘ the brig brak, and the cartco tippet.’“ And did you and the horse coup likewise?”said Mr Stewart.O ay, we a’ couppet thegether, for I wasridin’ on his back.”“ And where is your father, and all the restof tlie folk ?”“ ^ bar sud they be but in the hay-field !Dinna ye ken that we’re takin’ in our hay?John ramson’s and Jamie Forster’s was in awook syne ; but we’re aye ahint the lave.”Having learned from the boy that the hay-field was at no great distance, I gave him sorhehalfpence to hasten his speed, njsd promised totake care of his horse till he should return withassistance.He soon appeared, followed by his father andtwo other men, who came on stepping at theirusual pace, “ Why, farmer,” said Mr Stewart,“you have trusted rather too long to this rottenplank, I think,” (pointing to where it had givenway;) “ If you remember, the last time I passedthis road, which was several months since, Ithen told you that the bridge was in danger, andshewed yon how easily it might be repaired ?”“ It is a’ true,” said the farmer, moving hisbonnet; “ but I thought it would do weeleneugh. I spoke to Jamie Forster and JohnTamson about it; but they said they wudnafash to mend a brig that was to serve a’ thefolk in the Glen.”“ But vou must now mend it for your ownsake,” said Mr Stewart, “ even though a’ thefolk in the Glen should be the better for it."“Ay, Sir,” said one of the men, “that’sspoken like yoursel’! would every body followyour example, there would be nothing in theworld but peace and good neighbourhood. Onlytell us what we are to do, and I’ll work at yourbidding, till it be pit mirk.”“Well,” said Mr Stewart, “bring down theplanks that I saw lying in the barn-yard, andwhich, though you have been obliged to stepover them every day since the stack they proppedwas taken in, have never been lifted. ^ ou knowwhat I mean ?”“O yes, Sir,” said the farmer, grinning, “weken what ye mean weel eneugh ; and indeed Imay ken, for I have fallen thrice owre themsince they lay there, and often said they snd beset by ; but we cu’dna be fash’d.”While the farmer, with one of the men, wentup, taking the horse with them, for the planksin question, all that remained set to work, underMr Stewart’s direction, to remove the hay, -andclear away the rubbish ; Mrs Mason and Marybeing the only idle spectators of the scene. Inlittle more than half an hour the planks werelaid, and covered with sod, cut from the bank,and the bridge now only wanted a little gravel,to make it as good as new. This addition,however, was not essential toward rendering itpassable for the car, which was conveyed over insafety ; but Mr Stewart, forseeing the conse-ISquences of it remaining in tliis unfinished state,urged the farmer to complete the job on thepresent evening, and at the same time promisedto reimburse him for the expence. The onlyanswer he could obtain was, “Ay, ay, we’ll do’tin time ; but I’se warrant it’ll do weel eneugh.”DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT.The aspect of the dwelling where Mrs Masonwas to fix her residence, was by no means in¬viting. The walls were substantial: built, likethe houses in the village, of stone and lime ;but they were blackened by the mud which thecart-wheels had spattered from the ruts in winter,and on one side of the door completely coveredfrom view by the contents of a great dunghill:On the other, and directly under the window,was a squashy pool, formed by the dirty waterthrown from the house and in it about twentyyoung ducks were at this time dabbling. Theirentrance in was further interrupted by the greatwheypot, which had stood since morning, whenthe cheese had been made, and was at the presentmoment filled with chickens, who were busilypicking at the bits of curd, which had hardenedon the sides, and cruelly mocked their wishes.Over this Mr Stewart and Mrs Mason unfor¬tunately tumbled ; but the accident was attendedwith no farther bad consequences, than a littlehurt upon the skin ; and all our party werenow assembled in the kitchen ; but though they19found the doors open, they saw no appearance ofany inhabitants. At length Mrs MacClartycame in, all out of breath, followed by her daugh¬ters, two big girls of eleven and thirteen yearsof agti. She welcomed Mrs Mason and herfriends with great kindness, and made manyapologies for being in no better order to receivethem ; and immediately fell to busying herselfin sweeping in-the hearth, and adding turt tothe fire, in order to make the kettle boil for tea.“I think,” said Miss Mary, “you might'make your daughters save you that trouble ;looking at the two girls, who stood all this timeleaning against the wall.“ O p&or things,” said their mother, “ they-have not been used to it; they have eneugh o’time for wark yet.”“Depend upon it,” said Mrs Mason; “young-people can never begin too soon-; your eldestdaughter there will soon be as tall as yourself.“ Indeed she’s of a-stately growth,” said MrsMacClarty, pleased with the observation ; “andJenny there is little ahint her ; but what’ arethey but bairns yet, for a’ that! In time, I war¬rant1, they’ll do weel eneugh. Meg can milk acow as well as I can do, when she likes.”“ And does she not always like to do all shecan ?” said Mrs Mason.“ O we maunna complain;” returned themother, “ she'does weel eneugh.”While MVs MaeClarty was preparing"tea forher guest, Mrs Mason cast her exploring eyeon the house and furniture. She soon saw, that20the' place they were served in the triple rapacityof kitchen, parlour, and bed-room. Its furniturewas suitably abundant, and Mrs MacClartyprided herself mnch on the noble stock of linenshe possest, but which Mrs Mason thougln, toohue for common use. “ For common use !”oried Mrs MacClarty : “ na, na, we’re no sicfools as put our napery to common use ! I havea dizen tableclaiths in that press, thirty year old,that were never upon a table. They are a’ o’my mother’s spinning. 1 have nine o’ my ainmakin’ forby, that never saw the sun but at thebookin washing.“ It is no doubt a good thing,” said MrsMason, “ to have a stock of goods of any kind,provided one has a prospect of turning them toaccount ; but 1 think a towel of nice clean huck-a-buck would \vi{>e a cup as well, and better,than a damask napkin.”“Towels! cried Mrs MacClarty, “na, na, wemamma pretend to towels; we just wipe up thethings wi’ what comes iu the gait.On saying this, the good woman, pulled outfrom between the seed-tub and her husband’sdirty shoes, a long blackened rag, and with itrubbed one of the pewter plates, with which shestepped into the closet for a roll of butter.“ There,” says she, “ I am sure ye’ll say, thatye never ate better butter in your life. There’sno in a’ the Glen better kye than ours. 1 hopeye’ll eat heartily; and I’m sure ye’re heartilywelcome.”21H ere, thought she, is a home, in which peaceand plenty seem to reign ; and yet these bles-iaings, which I thought invaluable, will not besufficient to afford me any condort, irom themore want of attention to the article ofcleanliness.Of the two girls she could not judge favourably.The elder appeared morose and sullen, and theyounger stupid and insensible. She was con-tinned in her opinion by observing, that thoughtheir mother had several times desired them togo to the held For their father, neither of themstirred a step.“ Ye’ll gang, I ken, my dear,” said MrsMacClarty, addressing herself to the younger ;“O ay, 1 ken ye’ll gang like agudebairn Jean.Jean looked at her sister ; and Mrs Mac-Clarty ashamed of their disobedience, but stillwilling' to palliate the faults which her own in¬dulgence had created ; said, ‘ that indeed theynever liked to leave her, poor things: they wereso bashful; hut that in time they would do weel| enough.”“ They will never do well, if they disobey theirmother,” said Mr Stewart, “you ought to teachyour children to obey you, Mrs MacClarty, fortheir sakes as well as your own. Take my wordfor it, that if you don’t, they, as well as you,will suffer from the consequences. But come,hoys, we shall go to the held ourselves, and seehow the farmer’s work goes on.”Mrs MacClarty, glad of this proposal, wentto the door to point the v. ay. Having receivedher directions, Mr Stewart pointing to the poolat the threshold, asked her how she coaid bear tohave such, dirty doors? “Why does not your hus¬band fetch a stone from the quarry?” “People whoare far from stones and from gravel may havesome excuse ; but you have the materials within,and by half a day’s labour could have your doormade clean and comfortable. How then canyou have gone on so long with it in thiscondition ?”“Indeed, I. kenna, sir, “said Mrs MacClartyj“the gud eman just canna be fash’d.”“ And cannot you be fash’d to go to the endof the house to throw out your dirty water ?don’t you see how small a drain would from thatcarry it down the river, instead of remaininghere to stagnate, and to suffocate you with in¬tolerable stench ?”“ O, we’re just used to it,” said Mrs Mac-Clarty, “ and we never mind it. We couldnabe fash 'd to gang sae far wi’ a’ the slaistery.”“ But what,” rteurned Mr Stewart, “ willMrs Mason think of all this dirt? She hasbeen used to see things in a very different sortof order, and if you will be advised by her, shewill put you upon such a method of doing everything about your house, as will soon give it avery different appearance.Mrs Mason did indeed feel herself very un¬comfortable amidst so much disorder and tilth-—and was determined to effect a change if possible.It was with much difficulty she could obtainfrom Mrs MacClarty the assistance of Grizzy,to make her own apartment comfortable $ thestout girl fell to work, and when the lowervallence was removed, it displayed a scene mostextraordinary;—a hoard of the remains of theold shoes that had ever been worn by any mem¬ber of the family ; staves of broken tubs, endsof decayed ropes, and other articles all coveredwith blue mould and dust.Mrs Mason perceiving what unpleasant taskshe should he obliged to impose on her assistant,deemed herself in justice bound to recompenseher for her trouble ; and, holding out a half-crown piece, told her, that if she performed allshe required of her, it should be her own. Nosooner was Grizzy made certain of the reward,than she proceeded to wash the bed posts with soapand vvater. After which the chairs, the tables,:theclock-case, the very walls of the room, as well asevery thing it contained, all underwent a completecleaning.The window, in which were nine tolerablylarge panes of glass, was no sooner renderedtransparent, than Grizzy cried out in ecstacy.‘‘that she cou’dna have thought it would havemade sic a change. Dear me ! how heartsomeit looks now, to what it us’t 1” said the girl,her spirit rising in proportion to the exertion ofher activity.“And in how short a time Iras it been cleaned?”said Mrs Mason. “ Yet had it been regularlycleaned once a-wcek, as it ouglrt to have been,it would have cost far less trouble. By the la¬bour of a minute or two, we may keep it con¬stantly bright $ and surely few days pass inwhich so much time may not he spared. Letus now go to the kitchen window, and make itlikewise clean. Grizzy with alacrity obeyed.But before the window could be approached, itwas found necessary to remove the heap of dustyarticles piled up in the window sill, which servedthepurpose of family library, and repository ofwhat is known by the term odds and ends.Mrs MacClarty, who had sat down to spin,did not at first seem willing to take any noticeof what was going forward; but on perceivingher maid beginning to meddle with tiie thingsin the window, she could no longer remain aneutral spectator of the scene. Stopping herwheel, she, in a voice indicating the reverse ofsatisfaction, asked what she was about ? MrsMason took it upon her to reply. “ We aregoing to make your window bright and cleanfor you, cousin,” said she. “ If you step intomy room, and take a look of mine, you wdl seewhat a difference there is in it; and this, ifthese broken panes were mended, would lookevery bit as well.” “It does weel eneugh,”returned Mrs MacClarty, “It wants nae cleanin’.It dees just weel eneugh. What’s the gudeo’ takin’ up the lass’s time wi’nonsense ? she’llbreak the window too, and the bairns hae brokeneneugh o’t already.”“ But if these panes were mended, and thewindow cleaned, without and within,” said MrsMason, “ you cannot think how much morecheerful the kitchen would appear.”