GEOGRAPHICAL DESCRIPTIONOFALGIERS AND TUNIS,WITH A FULL ACCOUNT OF THE ATTACK ONALGIERS*By Lord Exmouth, on the 26th August 1816-PAISLEY:Printed by J. Neil son,FOR K. SMITH, BOOKSFIXTSK.1816,A GEOGRAPHICAL, &c.LGIERS, a ftrong city, capital ef the whole coun¬try of Algiers. It is built on the fide of a moun¬tain next the harbour ; and the houles appearing oneabove another, of a refplendent whitenefs, make a fineappearance from the fea. The tops of the houfes areflat, covered with earth, and form a fort of gardens.The ftreets are narrow, and ferve to keep oft' the ex*treme heat of the fun There are five gates, but nopublic places or fquares of confiderable extent. Thelarger molques are feven, but there is nothing re¬markable in their architecture; and the dey's palace isfar from being fpacious and extenfive. The harbour isfmall, fhallow, andinfecure, and its entrance is incom¬moded with numerous rocks. The mole of the har¬bour is 500 paces in length, extending from the con¬tinent to a fmall iftand, where there is a caftle and alarge battery The number of inhabitants is faid to beSo,000 in which are included feveral thoufand Jewifhfamilies. Their chief fubfiftence is derived from theirpiracies, for they make prizes of all Chriftian fhipsthat are not at peace with them. The country aboutAlgiers is adorned with gardens and fine villas, water¬ed by fountains and rivulets; and thither the inhabi¬tants refort in the hot feafon. Algiers has for agesbraved the refentment of the moft powerful ftates inChriftendom. Emperor Charles V. loft a fine fleetand army in an expedition againft it in 1541. TheEnglifh burnt their vefiels in the harbour in 1635 and1670. It was bombarded by the French in 1688.In 1775, the Spaniards made a defeent near the citywith a formidable army, but were defeated with greatslaughter. In 1784, they lent a powerful fleet toattack the forts that defend the harbour •, but theywere repelled by the Algerines, although they madeeight fucceffive attacks with great bravery. Algiersis 380 m w of Tunis. Lon. 3 48 e. lat. 36 40 n.Algiers, 3 country of Barbarity, comprehending agreat part of the ancient Mauritania. It is 600 m3from E to w, and 170 in breadth; bounded on then by the Mediterranean, e by Tunis, s by Mount At¬las, and w by Morocco. The dey is an abfolutemonarch, but elected by the Turkifh foidiers, and fre.quently depofed and put to death by them. The re¬venues of the government arife from the tribute paidby the Moors and Arabs, a detachment of the armybeing fent into each province every year to collect it ;and the prizes they take at fea fometimes equal thetaxes they lay upon the natives.The principal inhabitants of the Kingdom of Algiers,are Arabians, Moors and Jews, eftimated at about200,000, who are Lorded over by 12,000 Turks.Tunis, a city and the capital of the country of thefame name, with a citadel on an eminence, and thefortrefs of Goletta on the fide of a canal, which is thegreateft naval militaiy depot belonging to the bey.The city ftands on the w fide of a lhallow lake, 9 min diameter, which is entered from the port, or bay ofGoletta, by a narrow paflage between the s point ofCape Carthage and the oppofite cape. It is an oblongfquare, 5 m in circuit, with a lofty wall, five gates,and 35 mofques. The number of inhabitants, includ¬ing 3©t©oo Jews, is upward of 130,000 Tunis isbuilt without any regularity; the ftreets, in general,are narrow and dirty ; and there are few buildings ofany magnificence, except the great mofque, the bey'spalace, and a few others. The houfes are all built offtone, though but one ftory high, and have flat roofs.Near the centre of the city is an extenfive piazza,which is faid formerly to have contained 3000 tradef-men’s fhops. The divan or council of ftaie, aflemblesin an old palace, where the bey formerly refided.The Mohamedans here have nine colleges for fludents,and a great number of fmaller fchools. Tunis is aplace of great trade, and has manufactures of velvets,filks, linen and woollen goods, fire-arms, fword, cut¬lery, Morocco leather, and red caps, worn by thecommon people. It is 320 m n n w Tripoli and 3S*e Algiers. Lon. 10 6 e, lat. 36 45 n.4ACCOUNr OF THE ENGAGEMENTAlgiers Bay, 28th Aug. 1S16.Sir—In all the viciffitudes of a long life of publicfervice, no circumftance has ever produced on myznind fuch impreffions of gratitude and joy as theevent of yefterday. To have been one of the humbleinftruments, in the hands of Divine Providence, forbringing to reafon a ferocious Government, and de-flroying for ever the infufferable and horrid fyftem ofChriftian flavery, can never ceafe to be a fource ofdelight and heartfelt comfort to every individual hap¬py enough to be employed in it. I may, l hope, bepermitted, under fuch impreffions. to offer my fin-cere congratulations to their Lord (hips on the com¬plete fuccefs which attended the gallant efforts of hisMajefiy’s fleet in their attack upon Algiers of yefter¬day ; and the happy refult produced from it on thisday by the fignature of peace.Thus has a provoked war of two days exiftence beenattended by a complete victory, and doled by a renew¬ed peace for England and her ally, the King of theNetherlands, on conditions dictated by the firmnefsand wifdom of his Majefty’s Government, and com¬manded by the vigour of their meafures.The fleet, complete in all its points, with the ad¬dition of of five gun-boats fitted at Gibraltar, departedin the higheft: Ipirits, and with the moll: favourableprofpect of reaching the port of their deftination inthree days ; but an adverfe wind deftroyed the expec¬tation of an early arrival, which was more anxiouflylooked for by myfelf, in confecjuence of hearing, theday I failed from Gibraltar, that a large army had beenaffembled, and that very confiderable additional workswere thrown up, not only on both flanks of the city,but alfo immediately above the entrance of the mole ;from this I was apprehenfive that my intention ofmaking that point my principal object of attack had5been difcovered to the Dey by the fame means he hadheard of the expedition. This intelligence was, onthe following night, greatly confirmed by the Prome¬theus, which I had difpatched to Algiers fometimebefore, to endeavour to get away the Conful. CaptainDafhwood had with difficulty fucceeded in bringingaway, difguifed in midfhipman’s uniform, his wife anddaughter, leaving a boat to bring off their infant child,coming down in a balket with the lurgeon, who thoughthe had compofed it, but it unhappily cried in tht gate¬way, and in confequence the furgeon, three midihip-inen, in all 18 perfons, were feized and confined asflaves in the uiual dungeons. The child was fern offnext morning oy the Dey, and as a folitary inftance ofhis humanity, it ought to be recorded by me.Captain Daffiwood farther confirmed, that about40,©oo men had been brought down from the interior,and all the jsnifaries called in from didam garrifons,and that they were undefatigably employed in the bat¬teries, gun-boats, &c. and every where firengtheningthe lea defences.The flaps were all in port, and between 40 and 50gun and mortar boats ready, with fevera't more in for¬ward repair. The Dey had clolely confined the Con-iul, and refufed either to give him up, or promife hisperfonal fafety; nor would he hear a word respecting theofficers and men feized in the boats of the Prometheus.From the continuance of adverfe svinds and calms,the land to the weftward of Algiers was rot madebefore the 26th, and next morning at day-break thefleet was advanced in fight of the city, though rot fonear as I had intended. As the {hips were becalmed,I embraced this opportunity of difpatching a boat,under cover of the Severn, with a flag of truce, andthe demands i had to make, in the name of his RoyalHighnefs the Prince Regent, on the Dey of Algiers(of v/hich the accompanying are copies) directing theofficer to wait two or three hours for the Dey*s an-fwer, at which time, if no reply was lent he was toreturn to the flag fidp 5 he was met near the mole b?6the captain of the port, who, on being told the anfwerwas expected in one hour, replied, that it was itn-poffible. The officer then faid he would wait two orthree hours; he then obferved, two hours was quitefufficient.The fleet at this time, by the fpringing up of thefea breeze, had reached the bay, and were preparingthe boats and flotilla for fervice, until near two o’clock,when, obferving my officer was returning with thefignal flying, that no antwer had been received,alter a delay of upwards of three hours, I inftantlymade the flgnal to know if the Ihips were all ready,which being anfwered in the affirmative, the QueenCharlotte bore np, followed up by the fleet, for theirappointed flations ; the flag, leading in the preferibedorder, was anchored in the entrance of the mole, atabout fifty yards diftance. At this moment not a gunhad been fired, and ( began to fufpect a full compliancewith the terms which had been fo many hours in theirhands ; at this period of profound filence, a {hot wasfired at us from the mole, and two at the {hips to theQorthward then following ; this was promptly returnedby the Queen Charlotte, who was then ladling to themain mart of a brig fart to the fhore iu the mouth ofthe mole, and which we had fleered for, as the guideto our pollfioni hus commenced a fire as animated and well fup-ported as, I believe, was ever witnefled, from a quarterbefore three until nine, without intermiffionj and whichdid not ceafe altogether until half part eleven.The fliips immediately following me were admirablyand coolly taking their ftations, with a precifion evenbeyond my moft (anguine hope ; and never did theBritifh flag receive, on any occafion, more zealous andhonourable fupport. To look farther on the line thanimmediately round me was perfectly impoflibie, butfo well grounded was my confidence in the gallantofficers I had the honour to command, that my miadwas left perfectly free to attend to other objects, and3 knew them in their flations only by the ddlructive7effect of their fire upon the walls and battleres towhich they were oppofed,I had, about this time, the fatisfaction of feeingVice-Admiral Van Cappellen’s flag in the ftation Iaffigned to him, and foon after, at intervals, theremainder of his frigates, keeping up a well fupportedfire on the flanking batteries he had offered to coverus from, as it had not been in my power, for want ofroom, to bring him in the front of the mole.About fun-fet, I received a meffage from Rear-Admiral Milne, conveying to me the fevere lofs theImpregnable was fuflaining, having then 150 killedand wounded, and requefting I would, if poflible, fendhim a frigate to divert fome of the fire he was under.There was awful moments during the conflict,which I cannot attempt to deferibe, occafioned byfiring the fliips fo near us, and I had long refifted theeager entreaties of feveral around me, to make theattempt upon the outer frigate, diftant about onehundred yards, which at length I gave unto, andMajor Goffett, by my fide, who had been eager toland his corps of miners, preffed me moft anxiouflyfor permifiion to accompany Lieutenant Richards inthis fliip's barg«. The frigate was inftantly boarded,and in ten minutes in a perfect blaze; a gallant youngmidlhipman, in a rocket boat. No. 8 although forbid¬den, was led by his ardent fpirit, to follow in fupportof the barge, in which he was defperately wounded,his brother officer killed, and nine of his crew. Thebarge, by rowing more rapidly, had fuffered lefs, andloft but two.Total killed and wonnded— 1 28 kiriled, 690 wounded.The enemy’s lofs in killed and wounded is between6000 and 7000To his Highnejs the Bey of Algiers.Algiers Bay, 28ih Aug. 1816.Sir—For your atrocities at Bona, on defencelefsChriftians, and your unbecoming difregard to the de¬mands I made yefterday, in the name of the PrincesRegent of England, the fleet under my or'ders hasgiven you a lignal chaftifement, by the total deftruc-tion of your navy, ftore-houfes, and arfenal, with halfyour batteriesAs England does not war for the deftruction ofcities, I am unwilling to viflt your perfonal crueltiesupon the inoffVnfive inhabitants of the country, and Itherefore offer you the lame terms of peace, which Iconveyed to you yefterday in my Sovereign’s name ;without the acceptance of thefe terms, you can haveno peace with England.If you receive this offer as you ought, you will firethree guns, and I {hall conlider your not making thislignal as a refufal, and fhall renew my operations atmy own convenience.I offer you the above terms, provided neither theBritifh Conful, nor the officers and men fo wickedlyieized by you from the boats of a Britifh fhip of war,have met with any cruel treatment, or any of theChriflian Haves in your power, and I repeat my de¬mand, that the Conful, and officers, and men, may befent off to me, conformable to ancient treaties —Ihave, See.EXMOUTH.TREATY OF PEACE.The abolition, for ever, of Chriftian flavery.2. The delivery, to my flag, of all flaves in the do¬minions of the Dey, to whatever nation they may be¬long, at noon to-morrow.3. To deliver alfo, to my flag, all money receivedby him for the redemption of flaves fince the com.mencement of this year, at noon alio to-morrow.4. Reparation has been made to the Britifh Confulfor all Ioffes he may have fuftained in confequence ofhis confinement.5. fhe Dey has made a public apology, in prefenceof his Miniflers and Officers, and begged pardon ofthe Couful, in terms dictated by the Captain of theQueen Chorlotte.FINIS,