THELIFE AND EXPLOITSOFROB ROY M GREGOR,The Highland Freebooter.“ The eagle he was lord above,But Roe was lord below.’’WOBDSWORXU.-KILMARNOCK:Pi inted by H. Crawford, Bookseller.1827.'iii n.7?VTHELIFEOF • ,i )Rob Roy McGregor, &c.b>o13 OBERT MCGREGOR,or ROB ROY,was second son of Donald M‘Gregor,of the family of Glengyle, a LieutenantColonel in the king’s service, by a daughterof Campbell of Glen!yon. Our hero wasdenominated a Celtic or Gaelicphrase, significant of his ruddy com¬plexion and colour of hair. .Rob Roy’s family were very respect¬able. His father was the friend and allyof Regent Murray, and brought to hisassistance 300 M‘Gregors, in an expedi¬tion to quell an insurrection of the Mac-Phersons in the north j for which serviceMurray granted him a lease of a farm,which still remains in the possession of thefamily. - :The education which Rob Roy received4was sufficient for the sphere of life he wasdestined to occupy. In his early years,it would have required very uncommonpenetration to discover those indicationsof sagacity and prudence which he after¬wards exhibited. In youth he evincedstrong natural parts, and soon excelled hiscompeers in the rude accomplishments ofthe age. He was active, bold, and pos¬sessed of great bodily powers; he has beenknown to seize a deer by the horns, andhold him fast. In The use of the broadsword, few could equal him. But al¬though his fiairte tfas so aingui’ady robust,and his disposititon daring and resolute,yet his masnners were polite, his addressinsinuating, hia faculties acute, his con¬clusions prettnpt, and inis reso’-'tion deter¬mined.In his youth, he studied the ancidnthistory, and recited the impressive poe¬try, of his 'country; and these were emi¬nently calculated to inspire sentiments thatcherished a warlike and enterprising spirit.Rob, in his boyhood, delighted in thereveries of a romantic imagination, con¬templating the sublime grandeur of hisnative Wilds—“ The reeky mountain,whose summits were often hid in theclouds that floated around them; the darkvalley, encircled by woody eminences jthe bold promontory, opposed to the foam¬ing ocean, and sometimes adocned by thecattle- of a chieftain; the still basom of thelake* that reflected the surrounding Und-scape;. the impetuous mountain cataract;and the dreary silence of the cavern,”were objects that influenced his youthfulfjqelings^ disposing his mind to the cultUvation of generous and manly sentiments.These impressions were never after eradi-c<cated. They continued to bias his tem-'peF* and to give it a cast of romantic cbU'vab-y* which, he exemplified in many ofihts future actions.Rob Roy being now determined to. folndow the quiet avootioms of a rural Kfe;lirented a tract of grazing land at Balquhid-iider, and for several years, pursued a quiet:aod inoffensive course. But his cattleiwere often stolen, along with those, of hislineighboars, by hordes of banditti fromItlie northern shires, who wasted the coumfry. In order to protect himself fromIthese marauders, he was constrained tonmaintain a select party of men; and toIthis cause may partly be attributed thewarlike habits which he afterwards ac¬quired.A considerable number of Macras, fromithe western part of Ross, having commit¬ted an outrage on the property of a neigh.6bourr, and carried off fifteen head of cattle,an express was sent to Rob, informing' himof the circumstance. Being the first callof the kind he had received since he becamethe protector of the vicinity, he summoneda dozen of his men, and followed the plun¬derers. Two days and a night he travel¬led, without obtaining any other informa¬tion as to their track, than at times seeingthe impression of the cattle’s feet on theground. The second night, being fa¬tigued, the party lay down in a glen, nearthe march of Badenoch. They had notrested long, when a fire was discovered ata little distance. They instantly set for¬ward to reconnoitre, when they found itwas a band of jolly tinkers carousing neartheir tent. Their mirth, however, wassoon interrupted, when they beheld RobRoy and his party. The tinkers informedhim they had seen the Macras, who wereat but a little distance; and two of the tink¬ers agreed to conduct the party to the spot.The freebooters had halted, for the se¬curity of their spoil, in a narrow part ofthe glen, when the M‘Gregors overtookthem, as they were setting out in themorning. Rob, with a loud and terrificvoice, which resounded among the craggyacclivities, charged them to stop; but asithey disregarded the order, he rushed upon7them^with such fury, that six of theirinumber lay prostrate on the ground.—The rest made a stout resistance, but weresoon overcome; two being killed, and fivewounded, they gave up the contest. Fouriof Roy’s lad’s were severely wounded, and(himself received a cut on the left arm fromIthe captain of the banditti. The booty,thus recovered, was driven back, and re¬stored to the rightful owner. Rob receiv-i ed great praise for this exploit; and manyt offered to contribute their donation of* black mail.’ This circumstance, no doubt,;itended to arouse the latent activity and,>courage of his mind.The executive government not onlyusanctioned, but enforced the exaction of‘ black mail:’ and all constables were com¬manded to see ‘ this order put into execu¬tion, as they sail answer to the contjrair.’1 Rob Roy’s exaction of this tax was not' therefore an unauthorised robbery, butsanctioned by custom and local institution,'iFor some time too he was employed in as¬sisting the oflicers of the neighbouring dis¬tricts, in collecting imposts for maintain¬ing the ‘ Black Watch,’ a corpse of mili¬tia, raised to protect the lives and propertyi of the people from marauding plunderers,i. This corps, from the celebrity they acquir-:: ed, afterwards became regular troops, and1 .were the origin of the gallant 42cf>'regi~merit, long known by the name of the-‘ Highland Wateh.’Rob Roy’s birth, as a gentleman, andhis respectable connexions, when be at¬tained to manhood, procured him accessto the first families, and admission into the' best company in the country. He formeda matrimonial engagement with a daugh¬ter of M‘Gregor of Comar, a woman ofan agreeable temper and domestic habits,active and economical in the managementof her family. But she took no part inthe predatory concerns of her husband,except on one occasion, afterwards men¬tioned.Rob was not possessed of any patrimo¬nial property, but became master of theestate of Craigcrostan, in the followingmanner,—‘ When M'Gregorof McGregor,was driven from his possessions in Glen-urehy, by the Campbells, be bought theLands of Inversnait and Craigcrostan, thenof small value, though of considerableboundaries, extending from the head ofLoch Lomond, twelve miles along its eas¬tern border, and stretching far into theinterior of the country, and partly aroundthe base of stupendous Ben Lomond. Oathe death of his chief, in 1693, he kft hisproperty to a natural brother, who wasr9laird of Kihnannan. This person was suc¬ceeded by a son, who courted a daughterof the laird of Leny ; but Rob Roy, fromwhat cause is not known,raised suspicionsagainst him in the mind of the young lady,who in consequence rejected her lover.—He then paid his addresses to a daughterof Colquhoun of Lussj and their marriageday was fixed, when Rob again interfered,and Miss Colquhoun also refused to fulfilher engagement. Enraged at such treat¬ment, the young chieftain went to Falkirk,where he married a woman of mean ex¬traction, which so displeased his friends,ithat they r,o longer regarded him as their: connection. By this treatment, the young' man was so disgusted with his dan, thatI he gave up his estate to Rob Roy, andleaving his country, was never moreheard of.Rob Roy devoted himself to the avoca-i: tion of a grazier; and as Highland cattlei about this time began to be in great re-;quest in England, Rob made frequentjournies for carrying on this traffic. When(McGregor was fairly settled, and tacitly"confirmed, as laird of Graigcrostan, hisfriendship became valuable, and was soli.!dted by his wealthy neighbours. At thistime the political variance between thei families of Montrose and Argyle had grownIOInto personal enmity ; this induced each ofthem to court the favour of Rob Roy,whose personal prowess, anil daring spirit,rendered him a desirable auxiliary, or aformidable enemy.Montrose, to gain the confidence, andsecure the friendship of M'Gregor, madea proposal to enter into copartnery withhim in the trade of cattle-dealing, a planin which he readily acquiesced. Montroseaccordingly advanced Rob 1000 merks,(about 50l. Sterling) who was also ex¬pected to lay out a similar sum, and thhprofits were to be divided. Argyle alsolaboured to form an alliance with Rob,hoping that, from his resolute braveryand local situation, he would be a sourceof constant annoyance to Montiose. Be¬sides, he might suppose that Rob Roy hadevinced a friendly disposition by assumingthe name of Campbell, that of M'Gregorbeing under proscription. But thoughRob had chosen this name in complimentto his mother, and in compliance with the Ilaw, he was acknowledged in the country,and by his clan, under no other name thanthat of M‘Gregor. He therefore spurnedthe overtures of Argyle with indignation.Rob Rov, in carrying on business withthe Marquis of Montrose, was the activemanager. But a M‘J)onald, an inferior11partner, on one occasion was intrustedwith a large sum of money, with which hemade off. This greatly deranged Rob’saffairs, and he was unable either to payMontrose his money, or to support hisown credit. Montrose acted with uncom-i mon severity and harshness: he dissolved:the copartnery, and insisted that Rob| should transfer his properly in security ofj the claims he preferred. T his propositioni was firmly rejected ; nor could the threats;of Montrose’s factor alter his purpose. Adawsuit was entered against Rob, and hewas ultimately compelled to give up his: lands in mortgage to Montrose, under con-idition that they should again revert to hitn->self when he could pay the debt.Rob Roy was extremely indignant atthe ungenerous conduct of Montrose.—.However, his mind was too strong to be'weakened by misfortune; he redoubledihis exertions, and was soon able to tenderthe sum for which his estate was held.—I But Montrose refused to deliver up his'property, pretending the amount hadrgreatly increased, and that it would take a'considerable time to make out the state¬ment. In this equivocal manner the Mar¬quis’s factor endeavoured to evade the law¬ful claims of an injured man. Just at thisitime the revolution took place, and many12of the chi eft airs were arraying their fol¬lowers to be in readiness for acting in fav¬our of the house of Stewart. Argyle at¬tached himself to the Prince of Orange;but not having been restored to his pro¬perty, since the attainder and judicial nrui*-'der of his father, he was hesitating in hissentiments j and, aware that Rob. in theevent of a war, would be a valuable aux¬iliary, he renewed his overtures to him,and warmly solicited his assistance.The suspicious Montrose soon discover¬ed that a correspondence had commencedbetween M‘Gregor and Afgyle; and, eagerfor the destruction of a family that hadrivalled him in greatness, he wrote a letterto Rob Roy, in which he promised, thatif he would go to Edinburgh, and givesuch information as would convict Argyleof treasonable practices, he would bothwithdraw the mortgage upon his property,and give him a large sum of money. RobRoy received this infamoufc proposal withthe lofty contempt and proud scorn of aM‘Gregor,# and, without deigning to re-* A chieftain of the M‘Gregors, m>iding or:his freehold in Glenorchy, had a son who hadgone in the shooting season, with a party o$young associates, to the moors. Lhey met witha young gentleman, of the name of Lament, fromCowel, who, atteuded by a servant, wa* goihj3 3urn an answer, forwarded it to Argyle,vho soon took occasion to confront Mon-o Fort William. Th^y all went to a puLuc-! louse thst was in die place, and fook a rtfreth-!»nent together : in the course of which a trintingilispute arose between Larr.ont and young Mac¬Gregor. Dirks were drawn, and before friendsitould interfere, M'Gregor fell, mortally w’ound-'d. In the confusion Larront escaped, and goticcurely to the house of M‘Gregor, which hap¬ped to be the finst habitation that met his eyeit the dawn erf morning. The chieftain was up,ind standing at the dcor.—^ have my life,” said' .he stranger, “ for men are in pursuit of me to' .ake it away.”—‘ Whoever you are,’ says M'Gre-*or, » here you are/Safe.'Lamom was but just brought In, and inf rod uc-ied to the family, when a loud dem'.fid Was madeat the door, if a stranger had enter *1 the house.He has,' says M'Gregor, < and what is youribusiness with hhn ‘ In a scuffle,’ cried the•pursuers, ‘he has killed your son; deliver him•up, thai we may instantly revenge the deed.’—-iM Gregot’s lady and his two daughters filled the•house with tl*eir cries and lamentations.—‘ Bequiet, says the chief, with the tears streaming•from his eyes, ‘ and kit no man presume to touchIthe youth—for he has M‘Gregor’s wend and hon-•our for his safety; and as God lives he shall be;*afe and secure whilst in my house.’In a little, the chieftain accompanied Lament,• with twelve men, under arms, to Inverary, and: landed him in safety on the other side of Loch-ihne, then took him by the hand, and thus ad-s? 4ft .trose, with a charge of malevolence. ButiiiRob suffered severely for this noble actifor Montrose, in revenge, procured an ad-fc;judication of his estate, and it was evictedi*for a sum very inadequate to its value.During this transaction, Rob Roy wasiiin England on business, and the expul-ision of his family was conducted by Gra-1ham of Killearn, under circumstances of 4the utmost indignity and barbarity. WhenM‘Gregor returned, and beheld his desti¬tute family, his soul was filled with rage,and he determined to take revenge on thedressed him:—‘Lament, now you are safe:—no longer can I, or will I protect you:—keepout of the way of my clan.—May God forgiveiand bless you.’This happened some time before the act ofproscription against the clan Gregor, in 1(533,when, to the discredit of justice, a weak govern¬ment sacrificed a whole people for the enormi¬ties of a few, M'Gregor lost his property, andwas hunted for his life, in consequence of thisiniquitous act. He took shelter in the house ofi this very Lamont—noted tor his uibanity, andhis deep contrition for the misfortune of hisyounger years; and who, by every act ot kind¬ness to his venerable guest, and some branchesof his family, revered the providence which putit in his power to repay to the family of his be¬nefactor, in some measure, the loss he had oc¬casioned them in the death of a son.4:ithors of his misfortunes. His first acthostility against Montrose was at a term,then he knew the tenantry of that noble-wan were to pay their rents. He and histien called upon them, and obliged them) give him the money, for which, how-j/er, he granted them acknowledgements,rithat it was received on account of Mon-ose.’In this compulsitory manner he leviedic rents from the tenants for severaltears; and Montrose, conscious, perhaps,mat he had taken undue advantage of Robr.oy, seemed to overlook the matter untilI subsequent occasion, when the factor wasbliectirg his rents at Chapellaroch in Stir-| ngshire. Rob Roy had given out someays before by proclamation at the church<oor, that he had gone to Ireland; and•he factor consequently concluded that hei/ould meet with no interruption in hisluty. Towards evening, however, Robiloy placed his men in a wood in the:eighbourhood, and went himself, withlis piper playing before him, to the inn*f Chapellaroch, where Killearn was, at-ended by several gentlemen of the vicini-y. Alarmed at the sound of the pipes,hey started up to tXscover from whencet proceeded; and Killearn, in great con-iternation, beheld Rob Roy approachingthe door.16He had finished his collection, but tibags were hastily thrown, for concealmeraon a shelf. Rob Roy entered with tlusual salutation, and the factor at first hano suspicion of his final purpose, as he la:down his sword, and partook of the eitertainment; after which, he desired hpiper to strike up a tune. This was a sijnal to his men, who in a few minutes surounded the house, and six of them ettered the room with drawn swords. • RgRoy, laying hold of his sword, as if abetto go away, asked the factor, ‘ How hhad come on with his collection ?’ ‘ I liavgot nothing,’ said Killearn, ‘ l have ncyet begun to collect.’ ‘ No, no, chambeilain,’ replied Rob, ‘ your falsehood winot do with me, I must count fairly wityou by the book.’ Resistance being useies!the book was exhibited, and according tit the money was given up, for which RoRoy granted a receipt.But from the infamous treatment bTfamily had received from Kiliearn, RoRoy was resolved to punish him, and ha»him immediately conveyed to an islan<near the east end of Loch Ketturin, novrendered famous as the supposed residencof fair Ellen, the Lady of the Lake.In this island Killearn was confined foa considerable time; and, when set artyY received front Rob a prudent ad-ition as to his future conduct.Rob Roy was. always the friend androtector of the weak and oppressed.—he disorders which prevailed in the nati-, n, during the reign of Charles II. becameill more dreadful on the accession of hisrother James, whose bigotry permittedic most odious Crimea, and authorised,ich cruelty as the mind shudders to cotv-implate. At these scenes of horror RobI ad often been present, whose soul burnednth indignation ae their wickedness, re¬setting. that he was not vigorous enougho crush the bands of inhuman wretchestfho executed the bloody commands of their.g. After he had been expelled fromds estate he went to Carlisle, to recover..sum of money due to him. Returningyy Mofiat, he fell in with a party of sohliers hanging four peasants, whom they:alled fanatks. A young woman, who wasitso bound to the same tree, bewailed theate of her father and brother, two ofhose who suffered. The deadly work be¬ing completed, four of the soldiers seized'she young woman-, tied her hands and feet,and were carrying her towards the river:;o drown her, regardless of her tears andentreaties to save her. Our hero’s heartibeing wrung with sympathy, and shocked'ISat such cruelty, ordered the perpetratorto stop, and demanded ‘ why they treateja helpless female with such barbarity ?’-+The officer desired him to e begone, otheiwise he would experience the same treatment, for daring to interrupt the king'instructions.’ The miscreants were jusabout to toss the girl in the stream overprecipiece. Rob became frantic with ragtsprung upon the soldiers, and in an instaneight of them were struggling in the poolThe officer and the remaining ten me:were confounded and stood motionlessIn this pause Rob cut the cords that bouncthe girl; and killed the officer at onstroke. The soldiers attacked him, buhe killed two of them, and the rest fled tthe town, leaving him master of the fieldto the unspeakable joy of the yeunjwoman, and the great delight of the pe<*santry who stood around.Our hero now devoted himself to military pursuits. He selected a body of meiho less resolute than himself. These boleM‘Gregors entered into a bond of unioiwhich no hardship could tear asunder, n<contention overcome; while the master!;discipline, established by Rob, rendereithem the terror of surrounding countiesThey mutually recited the wrongs of theiclan, and renewed the determination o19Iking a proper revenge. While the war-he music of the pipes animated theiriirits, and inspired them with a courageJmost irresistible.1 The government now watched the mo¬ans of the Highland chiefs with a jealous"e, and thus they were obliged to com-'unicate their sentiments respecting the'idled house of Stewart in the most secrethd clandestine manner. 1 heir opinionsiere unanimous, and a bond of faith andnutual support was signed. By the negli-ence of a chieftain to whom the. bond wasitrusted, it fell into the hands of Captainwilliam Campbell of Glenlyon. When itvas known that a man of such inhumanhelings held this bond, those who signedt were seriously alarmed, and various plansivere suggested for recovering it. Robitoy, with the clans, had also aflixed hisiiame; but on his own account he regard-id neither the king nor Ids government,de was, however, urged by several chiefs:o exert himself, and, if possible, to recov¬er the bond. To accomplish this, he wentto Fort William io disguise ; and gettingaccess to Captain Campbell, who was hisnear relation, he discovered that he hadput the bond into the possession of thegovernor, who was determined to forwardit to the Privy Council. Rob learned the201day on which it was to be sent off; too'leave and went home. The despatch wanaade vtp by Governor Hill,, and sent firor:Fort William, escorted by an ensigrTs coirpany. On the third day’s march, Ro'and fifty of his men met the party in Glendochart, and demanded their despatchesThe officer refused ; but was* told by Robtha* he must either give their lives and thdespatches together, or the despatches aloneThe despatches were given up : and Robhaving taken out the bond he wanted, begged the officer would excuse the delay hhad occasioned, and wished him a goo>sjourney.. By this bold exploit many chiefsaved their hetds-, and forfeiture of thenestates.The spirit of clanship, th*.' dignity assumed by great chieftains, and the profound submission of their vassals, ofterproduced the most iniquitous actions.—Against such acts of violence, though overflooked by the government, Rob Roy Mac¬Gregor manfully and openly drew hi;sword.On the estate of Perth, a clansman clRob Roy’s occupied a farm on lease ; busthe factor took occasion to break it, anqthe tenant was ordered to remove. Rohhearing the story, went to Drummond Cas-tie. On his arrival the first person he met21as Bl&h-d-rummond, the factor, whom henocked down., v.'itho-ut uttering a word,j>d walked on to the gate. Perth, whoiiw this from a window, came out andlave him a cordial welcome.—‘Perth, Irant i!0 -shew of hospitality ; l insist oidy) get back the tack of which mymame-ike has -been deprived, otherwise I willt loose my legions on your property.’—(ertu was obliged to cc^mply. Tl>e leaseras restored, and Rob sat down andfeakfasted with the Earl.1 Graham of Kiilearn was factor on theiitate of Montrose, and second cousin touat nobleman. Being in the constant(ractice of distressing those netvants who.ere in arrear, he was despised in thei>untry. He had dnoe sequestrated iheftods and cattle of a poor widow for ar-ars of rent; when Rob heard of the cru-ty, he went to her, and gave her the)0 merks she owed, at same time derir-jg her, when she paid it, to get a receipt,in the legal day, the officers appeared at:e widows house to take away her effects,ae paid their demand ; but Rob metem; made them surrender the moneyicy had extorted ; gave them a goodrubbing, and an advice never again tot in the same manner.Sometimes the rich procured a snort-gage bond upon the property of his neeneighbour j and this was generally turrinto an authority to seize their landsforce. Glen gyle was under a bond of tikind, when Rob Roy’s nephew succeedto it. Rob, knowing what advahtawould be taken of the contract, gave 1nephew the money, for the purpose oftrieving the bond. The period ofdemption had only a few months to ruand, under pretence that the bond connot be found, the money was refused.Rob Roy at this time having been othwise engaged, the matter lay over, athe bond was allowed to expire; wf7cung M'Gregor was ordered to remchimself, his dependants, and cattle,eight days. Rob Roy could not sufsuch treatment; and, assembling his gilltook the chieftain prisoner, who, kncing Rob’s disposition, agreed to givethe bond when he got home. Rob, pting no confidence in his promise, copelled him to send for it, and give itto him presently.The incursions of our hero indu4Montrose to apply to the Privy Couifor protection ; and obtained an act whwas expressed in terms—‘ to repress seeers, robbers, and broken men, to raise hand cry after them, to recover the go(stolen, and to seize their persons.’This decree, though despised by Rob,lade him more watchful of his foes.—ut Montrose, under authority of the actf Council, called out a number of his peo-le, headed by a confidential Graham, and:companied by some military, sent them3 lay hold of Rob Roy; he chanced toe absent when the Grahams assailed hisouse during the night. Having learnednat Rob and his men were at a public-louse in Strathfillan, he in the house, andHey in an adjoining barn. The Grahamsnmediately broke open the door. Robras instantly accoutred to meet them, andwelled them man by man as they ap-iroached, until his own lads, rousedue noise, attacked the GMhams in theear, with such determination, that they::treated, leaving behind them several ofiieir party sorely wounded; but Rob,nving refreshed his men with a glass ofihisky, ascended the hill towards the headtf. Loch Lomond.i When nearly exhausted, and worn outy the laborious vicissitudes of a restlessie, and confined to bed in a state of ap¬proaching dissolution, a person with whomii former times he had a disagreement,illed upon him, and wished to see him.I Raise me up,” said he to his attendants,i dress me in my best clothes j tie on my24arms; |)laoe me in the -great diair. Th;-feUaw shall tiever see me on a death bed..With this they complied, and he receive-his visitor with cold civility,. When d.stranger had taken his leave, Rob Soy e:claimed, It is all over now 5 put me Ibed. -Gall in the pipdn ^Let him pk‘ Cha teill mi tmlk' as long as I breatheHe was faithfully obeyed, and calmly nxhis death, which took place -at the farm f*{Inverlooldarigbeg, atnoiig the t>raes of ’Brlquhidder, in 1785, His :rqlics repose athe church'yard of that paridh, with .aother escutcheon to mark his igrave thaa simple stone, ion which some kin dr*spirit has carved a s word—^tiie rapproprifflemblem of the -man t>—’j , i t. r-,“ Gian lAlpiueb oBsen-ftad Jjenaid!”The funeral of Rob Roy was attend*by dll ranks t/f people within several inliof his residence ; and so munch was be tloved, that universal regret seemed to povade the whole company. An old matiwhom we have.seen, although then yountiattended the solemn occasion; and vipresent some time before, when Rob Rfl-Jdught Ardsheal.(8hi?bit4m uit o) o;t bice *\qu smiFJNhS. ■