THE HISTORYOFJOHN CHEAPTHECHAPMAN,CONTAINING,Above a Hundred Merry Exploits done by himand his Fellow-Traveller, Droutht Tom,a Slicked Shaver.GLASGOW:Published and Sold by R, Hutchison & Co. No. 10,Saltmarket. 1817.1illTHEII I S T 0 11 YOFJOHN CHEAPTHE CHAPMAN.PREFACE.■JOHN CHEAP the Chapman, was a very coir.ic&ishcr; thick fellow, with a broad face and a long nose®bo»h lame znd lazy, and sqmething leacherous amon ithe lasses: he chose rather to s t idle than wot k at an ptime, as he wa? a hater of hard labour. No ma,Btneeded to offer him cheese and bread, after he curs’*.:it he would not have it* for he would blush at breati-and milk, when hungry, as a beggar doth at a ba\y.bee. He got the name of John Cheap the chapmansby his selling twenty needles for a penny, and twleather laces for a farthing.Ho svvore no oaths but one, which was, Let mnever sin.He used no imprecations, Lut let me neither cheanor be cheated, but rather cheat, &c.He gave bad counsel to none but children, to buretthe bone combs, that their mother might buy antiother when he came again.He never fought with any but dogs, and the good:wives’ daughters in their dalKng, and that’s not damgerous.• *1The History of, Sfc.3PART I.The following Relation is taken from his own inouii:.Verbatim.T JOHN CHEAP, by chance, at some certain time•*- doubtless against my will, was born at the Hot-tom, near Habertehoy mill. My father was a ScotsHighlandman, and my mother a Yorkshire wench,but honest, which causes me to be of a mongrel kind.I made myself a chapman when very young, in great' hopes of being rich when I became old; but fortunei was fickle and so was I; for I had not been a chap-i man above two days, until I began to consider thei danger of deep ditches, midden-dubs, biting dogs,: and boggles in barns, bangster wives and wet sacks.! And what comfort is it, says I, to lie in the cow’sI oxter, the length of a cold winter night; to sit be-ihind backs, till the kail be a’ cuttied up and then toi lick colley’s leavings?My first journey was through old Kilpatrick. All| the day long I got no meat nor money, until theevening, I began to ask for lodging, then every wife,j to get me away, would either give me a cogful ofkail, or a piece of cake. Well, says I to myself, ifithis be the way, I shall begin in the morning to askfor lodging, or at any time when I am hungry. ThusI continued going from house to house, until myI belly was like to burst, and my pockets could hold^no more; at last I came to a farmer’s house, butj dunking it not dark enough to prevail for lodging,I sat down upon a stone at the end of the house, tillday-light would go away out of the west; and as I■ was getting up to go into the house, out comes thegoodwile, as I supposed her to be, and sat down at4The History ofthe cml of the stone, I being at the other, there shebegan to make off her water with full force, whichI bore with very modestly, till near an end; thenshe made the wind follow with such force, as made(as I thought) the very stone I leaned upon to move,which made me burst out into laughter; then up getsthe wife, and runs for it; I followed hard after intothe house, and as I entered the door, I heard thegoodman, saying, Ay, ay, goodwife, what’s thehaste, you run so?No more passed, until I addressed myself to thegoodman tor quarters; which he answered, “ Indeedlad, we hae nae beds but three, my wife and I, our-sells twa, and the twa bits o’ little anes, Willie andJenny, lie in ane; the tw'a lads our twa servant men,Willie Black and Tom lie in anither, and auld Maggsmy mither and the lass Jean Tirram lie the gither,and that fills them a.” O, but, says I, Goodman,there is some of them fuller than others, you maylet me lie with your mither and the lass; I shall lieheads and thraXvs wi’them, and keep on my breeks.A good keep me, quo’ the lass, frae a’ temptationsto sin, although tin u. be but a callen heth I’ll ratherlie \vi’ Sannock Garner. Hute awa, quo’ the auldwife, the poor lad may lie on a buttle of strae, beyonttht fire. No, no, cries the goedwife, he’s no bhere the night, or I’se no be here. Dear goodwife,said I, what ails you at me? if you will not let mstay you’ll not hinder me to go where I please. Ayay, said she gae w'hereyuu like. Then I got is beJyond the fire, beside the goodman. Now, said Igoodwife, 1 like to be here. A deevil be here, anye be here the night, said she. Ho, ho, said I, buI’m here first, and first coin’d, first serv’d, goodwifebut, an the ill thief be a friend of yours, you’ll ge:roo for him too. Ye thief-like widdifu’, said she,are yc evening me to be sib to the foul thief; ’tiJohn Cheap the Chapman. 5weel kencl I am corn’d of good honest fonts. It maybe so goodwife, said I, but ye look rather the otherway, when ye would lodge the deil in your house,and ca’ out a poor chapman to die, such a stormynight as this. What do you say! says she, therewas na a bonnier night since winter came in nor thi .0 goodwife, what are you saying! Do ye not mindwhen you and I was at the east end of the house,such a noise of wind and water was then. A waeworth the hlrhy body, said she, is not that in everypart! What, said the goodman, a wat weel therewas nae rain when I came in. The wife then shootsme out, and bolted the door behind me. Well, saidI, but I shall be through between thy mouth andthy nose e’er the morrow. It being now so dark, and1 a stranger, could see no place to go to, went into1 the corn-yard, but finding no loose straw, I fell al drawing out of their stacks, sheaf by sheaf, until I] pulled out a threave or two, and got into the holeI myself, where I lay as warm as a pie; but the good-i man in the morning, perceiving the heap of corn-! sheaves, came running to carry it away, and stop up: the hole in the stack wherein I by, with some of the;t sheaves, so with the steighling of the straw, and him: talking to others, cursing the thieves who had doneit, swearing they had stole six threaves of it; I then.skipping out of the hole, Ho, ho, said I, goodman,i you’re not to bury me alive in your stack. He theni began to chide me, vowing he would keep my pack■ for the damage I had done: whereupon I took hisii|servants witnesses he had robbed me; when hearingilme urge him so, he gave me my pack again, and off"I came to the next house, where I told the whole ofthe story.ill My next exploit was near Carluke, between Ha-,! tnilton and Lanark: where, on a cold stormy night,H came tna liitle town with four or five houses in it.6The History ofI went twice through it, but none of them wouldgive me the credit to. stand all night among theirhouses, or yet to lie in their cows’ oxter. At last, Iprevailed with a wife, if her husband was willing, tolet me stay, she would, and sent me to the barn toask him; and I meeting him at the barn-door carry- 'iag in strae for his horses, I told him his wife hadgranted to let me stay, if he was not against it; towhich he answered, If I should lie in his middendib, I should get no quarters from him that night;a wheen lazy idle villains turns a’ to be chapmen,comes through the country fashing fouks, ay seekingquarters; the next day 'Ye’ll be gaun wi’ a powder’dper wig, and a watch at your arse, and winna letfouk stand before your chapdoors ye’ll be sae saucy.I hearing thus my sentence from the goodman, ex¬pected no relief but to lie without; yet I perceivedwhen he came out of the barn he only drew the doorto behind him. So when he was gone, I slips intothe barn, and by the help of one of his kipples, climbsup the mou, and there dives down among the sheaves, [|and happed myself all over, so that I lay as warm as jlthe goodman himself. But, in the morning, longbefore day, two fellows came into the barn and fella-threshing, so that by their disturbance I could sleepno more. At last I got up with my hair all hanging iover my face; and when he that stood on the oppo¬site side perceived me, I made my eyes to roll, andwrayed my face in a frightful manner, so that thepoor fellow supposing he had seen the deil or some-j ■thing as ill, gave a roar as if he had been sticked;]]and out at the door he runs; the other following after])'him, crying, Wa’Johnny man, what did you seenj'tO! Sanciy, Sandy, the dell’s on the top o’ the mou,sheav’ling his mouth at me; I’ll no be sae well thismonth man, my heart’s out o’ its huie, wow but yJohn Cheap the Chapman. Voe a fearful like face indeed, it wou'd fright any liv¬ing creature out o’ their senses.I hearing the fear they were in, cried to them notto be frighted, for I was not the deil, but a poorchapman who could not get quarters iast night; a foulfa’ thy carcase Sir, for our Jock is thro’ the midden-dub, dirt and a’the gither. He who went last cameagain; but the other ran into the house and told whathe had seen- The good man and his wife came Tun¬ing, he with a grape in his hand, and her with theBible, the one crying Sandy, Sandy, is’t true thatthe deil was in the barn. Na, na, said he, it’s but achapman, but poor Jock has goiten a fright wi’ him.They laughed heartily at the sport, took me intobreakfast, and by this time poor Johnny was gone tobed very sick.After this I travelled up by the water of Clyde,[ near the foot of TiStock-hill, where I met with a| sweet companion, who was an older traveller than11, and he gave me more information how to blow thej goodwife, and sleek the goodman. With him I kept; company for two months; and as we travelled down, Tweed towards the border, we being both hungry,,and could get nothing to buy for the belly, we camei unto a wife who had been kirning, but she wouldj give us nothing nor sell so much as one halfpenny’si worth of her sour-milk. Na, na, said she, I’ll nei¬ther sell butter, bread, nor milk, ’tis a’ little enoughto sair my ain family: ye that’s chapmen may drink;water, ye dinna work sair. Ay, but goodwife, said.1, I hae been at Temple-bar, where I was sworn■ ne’er to drink water, if I could get better What■do ye say, says she, about Temple-bar? a town justabout twa three miles and a bitiock frae this; a thiefane was to swear ye there, an it wasna auld Willie'Miller the colder, the ill thief a neither minister nori magistrate ever was in it a’.8tThe History ofO but, says the other lad, the Temple-b-.r hemeans by, is at London. Yea, yea, lad, an ye becorn’d frae London, ye’re little worth. London, saidhe, is but at home to the-place he comes from. Adear man, quoth she, and whar in a’ the world comeshe frae? Ail the way frae Italy where the Pope o’Rome dwells, says he. A sweet he wi’ us, quothshe, for the fouks there awa’ is a’ witches and war-locks, deils, brownies, and fairies. Well I wat that’strue, said I, and that thou shalt know, thou hardhearted wretch who would have people to starveor provoke them to steal. With that I rose and liftstwa or three long straws, and casting knots on them,into the byre I went, and throws a knotted strawon every cow’s stake, saying, Fhy days shall not belong. The wife followed wringing her hands, ear¬nestly praying, for herself and all that w'as hers. Ithen came out at the door, end lifted a stone, runn¬ing three times round about, and threw it over thehouse, muttering some words, which 1 knew not my¬self, and concluding with these words: ‘ Thou mon¬sieur Liable, brother to Beelzebub god of Ekron,take this wife’s kirn, butter and milk, sap and sub¬stance, without and within, so that she may die inmisery, as she would have others to live.’The wife hearing the aforesaid sentence, clapt herhands, and called out another old woman as foolishas herself, who came crying after us to come back.Back we went, where she made us eat heartily ofbutter and cheese. Then she earnestly pleaded with Ime to go and lift my cantrips; which I did, upon herpromising never to deny a hungry traveller meatnor drink, whether they had money to pay fork ornot; and never to serve the poor with the old proverb, ‘Go home to your own parish;’ but give themless or more as ye see them in need. This site faithfully promised to do while she lived, and with miikJ9John Cheap the Chapman.we drank towards her cow’s good health and herown, not forgetting her husband’s and the bull’s, asthe one was the goodman of the house, and the otherof the byre. And away we cante in all haste, lestsome of a more understanding nature should cometo hear of it, and follow after us.In a few days thereafter we came to an ale-housein a muir, far distant from any other. It being asore day of wind and rain, we could not travel, wasobliged to stay there. But the house being verythrong, we could get no bed but the servant lasses,which we was to have for a p^hnvworth of pins andneedles; and she was to He with her master and mis¬tress. But as we were going to bed, in comes threeHighland drovers on their way home from England.The landlord told them that the beds were all takenup but one, that two chapmen were to lie in. One ofthem swore, his broad sword would fail him, if achapman lay there that night. They took our bed,and made us sit by the fire all night. I put on agreat many peats, and when the drovers were fastasleep, I put on a big brass pan full of water, andboiled their brogs therein for the space of half anhour, then lays them as they were, every pair bythemselves; so when they rose, every one began tochide another, saying, Hup pup, ye sheing a brog:for not one of them would serve a child of ten yearsfid, being so boiled in The landlord persuadedthem that their feet were swelled with the hard tra¬velling, being so wet the last night, and they wouldgo on well enough if they had travelled a mile or two.Now the Highlandinen laugh’d at me the night be¬fore, when they lay down in the bed I was to have;but I laugh’d as much to see them all three trot a-way in the morning, with their broil’d brogs in theirhands.10The History ofPART II.VfTE again came to a place near Sutry-hill, where" ^ the ale was good, and very civil usage, and ourdrought being very great, the more we drank, thebe-ter we lov’d it: and here we fell in company witha quack-doctor, who bragged us with bottle aboutfor two days and two nights, only when one felldrunk, we pushed and pricked him up with a bigpin to keep him from sleeping. He bought of ourhair, and we of his pills and drugs, he having asmuch knowledge of the one as we had of theother. Only I was sure I had as much as would seta whole parish to the midden or mug all at once: butthe profit, tho’ all to come, went to the landlady tomake up the loss of having the lime pish’d off herdoor-cheeks, and what we did not pish, we scyth’dthro’ our teeth, and gave the dogs the girt bits.Eut at last our money ran short, and the land'adyhad no chalk nor faith to credit us, seeing by onrcoats, courage, and conduct, that we would littlemind performance against the day of payment. Sothen we began to turn sober and wise behind thehand, and every one of us to seek supply from ano¬ther; and when we collected all the money we hadamong us oh the table, it was but fourpence half¬penny, which we lovingly divided amongst us, butonly three baubees a piece, and as drouthy Tom’sstock and mine was conjunct, we gave the quackagain his shi—g stuff and stinking mugs, and hegave us our goods and pickles of hair, which we e-qually divided betwixt us, the whole of it only cameto eighteen shillings and sixpence prime cost, and sowe parted. I went for East Lodiian, and Tom forthe west Eut my sorting of goods being very un¬suitable for that country, 1 got but little or no mo-John Cheap the Chapman. ’ 11ney, which caused me to apply to the goodman forto get lodging; and it being upon a Saturday’s night,w.s hard to be found tiil very late in the night. Iprevailed to get staying in a great farmer’s house,about two mites from Haddington. They were allat supper when I came in. I was ordered to sit downbehind their backs. The goodwife then took a dish,went round the servants, and collected a soup out ofevery cog, which was sufficient to have served threemen. The goodwife ordered me to be lai 1 in thebarn all night for my bed; but the bully-fac’d good-man swore he had too much stuff in it, to ventureme there. The goodwife said, I should not lie wirh-in the house, for 1 would be o’er near the lasses’ bed.Then the lads swore I should not go with them, forI was a forjeskit-Hke fellow, and (wha kens whether1 was honest or not he may fill his wallet wi’ ourclothes and gang his wa’ or day-light. At last I wasconducted out to the swine’s stye, to sleep with anold sow and seven pigs, and there I lay for two nights.Here, now I began to reflect on the sour fruits ofdrinking, and own all the misery just that was comeupon-me. In the night the young pigs came gruz-ling about me very kindly, thinking I was somefriend of their mother’s come to visit them. Theygave me but little rest, always coming kissing me withtheir cold noses, which caused me to beat them offwith my staff, which made them to make a terriblenoise, so that their old mother came up to argue thematter, running Upon me with open mouth; but Igave her such a rout over her long snout, a - causedher to roar out murder in her own language, thatalarmed the servants where they lay, who came tosee what was the matter. I told them, th. ir old sow'was going to swallow me up alive, bid them to goiand bring her meat, which they did, and the brute: became peaceable.12The History ofOn the Sabbath norning I r me into the house.The goodman asked me if I could shave a. y. Yes,said 1, but never did on the Sabbath-day. I fancy,said he, you ate some Westland Whig. Sir, said I,you m y sn,> use me to be what you think properto-day, b’.t yesternight you used me like a Tory,,when you sent me into a stye to lie in your sow’soxter which is a nfer companion for a devil thanany human creamre; the most abominable brute uponthe earth, said I, who was forbidden to be eaten un¬der the law, and cursed under the gospel. Be theycurs’d or be they bless’d said he, I wish I had anewof them; but an ye will not tak aff my beard, ye’sget nae meat here the day. Then, said I, if ye willnot give me meat and drink for money, until tireSabbath be past. I’ll tak on my wallet, and go alongwith you to the kirk, and tell your minister how you:used me as a hog. No, said the goodwife, you shall,not want your crowdie, man. But my heart beingfull of sorrow and revenge, a few of them sufficedme, whereon I past over that long day, and at nightwent to sleelp with my old companions, which wasnot sound, being afraid of mistress sow’s coming to;revenge the quarrel we had the night before.On the morning I went into the house. Thegoodman ordered me the pottage-pot to lick; for,says he, it is an old property to chapmen. Well, Ihad no sooner begun to it, then out came a greatbig mastiff-dog from below the bed, and grips meby the breast, then turns me over upon my back, andtakes the pot himself. Ay, ay, said the goodman, Ithink your brother pot-licker and you cannot agreeabout your breakfast! A well, said I, goodman, yousaid that pot-licking was a chapman’s property, but!your dog proves the contrary. So away I comes, and Imeeting the good wife at the door, bid her farewellfor ever. But what, said I, is your husband’s name? I13John Cheap the. Chapman.to which ?he answereJ, John Swine: I was think¬ing so, said I, he has such dirty fashions; but whe¬ther w >s \on his mother or his sister I lay withthese two nights.All that dav I travelled the country west fromHadil ngtc >ut could ger no meat; when 1 askedif t' . y ha i any to sell, they told me, they never didseli any bn. a i, and I found by sad experience, 'heyhad none to give for nothing. I came into a littlecountry village, and went thro* it all, house afterhouse, and could neither get bread nor ale to buy:at last I came into a poor weaver’s house, and askedhim, if he would lend me a hammer, Yes, said he,what are you going to do with it ? Indeed, said I,I am going to knock out all mv teeth with it, for Ican get no bread to buy in all the country, for all: the stores and stacks you have in it: what, said he,i were you in the minister’s ? I know not, said !, doesi he keep an ale-house < O na, said he, lie preaches; every Sunday, an what does he preach, said I? i. it to harden your hearts? baud weel together? have■ no charity? hate strangers? hunger the-poor? eat and1 drink all yourselves? better burst your bellies thanjgive it to the beggars, or let good meat spoil? Ifiyour minister be as naughty as his people, I’m pos¬itive he’ll drive a louse to London for the hide and.tallow. Here I bought the weaver’s dinner for tvvo-ipence, and then set out again, keeping my courseiwestward. It being now night, I came to a farmer’sihouse south from Dalkeith, the goodman being verycivil, and desirous oT news, I related the whole pas¬sages of the two days and nights bv-past, whereatipe was greatly diverted, and said, I was the first heiheard of that ever that man gave quarters to before,ibecause he was an elder of the parish. So the good-man and 1 fell so thick, that he ordered me to beilaid on a shakedown-bed beyond the lire, where I14The History oflay more snug than among the swine. Now there'were three women lying in a bed in the same apart- jment, and they not minding that I was there, firstone of them rose and let her water go in below the ;chimney-grate, where I had a perfect view of her ?bonny-thing, as the coal-fire burnt so clearly all thenight; then another rose and did the same; last ofall ' at up the old matron, as she appear’d to be, likea second-handed good wife, or a whirl’d o’er maidensix times overturned, and as she’ let her dam go, shealso, with full force, when done, let a fart like theblast of a trumpet, which made the dust on the hearth istone to fly up like a whirlwind about her buttocks,whereat I was obliged to laugh out, which made herrun for it, but to smother the laughter I stapt the iblankets in my mouth. She went to bed and vrauk-ened the other two, saying O dole! what will I tellyou? yon chapman body has seen a’ our a-ses thenight; shame fa’ him, said they, for we had nae min’he was there. I wat vveel, says one of them, I’se no Urise till he be awa’, but said the old woman, gin he Uhas seen mine 1 canna help it, it’s just like ither ifouk’s, and fient a hair I care. On the morning the 4old matron got up first, and ordered up the house, uthen told me to rise now, for chapmen and every ||body was up. Then she asked me if I had an-use oflaughing in my sleep? Yes, said I, when 1 see anydaft like think, I can look and laugh at it as weelsleeping as waking. A. good preserve us, said she, ,ye’re an unco body, but ye nee l nae wait on ourporrage-time, I’se gie you cheese and bread in your,pouch, which I willingly accepted, and away I came.Then l kept my course west by the foot of Tent-land hills, where I got plenty of hair, good and Jcheap, besides a great quantity of old brass which!w ts an excellent article •'o make mv little pack seem Ibig and weighty. Then I came into a little coun-115John Cheap the Chapman.try village, and going in by the side of a house,there was a great big cat Sitting in a weaver’s win¬dow, beiking herself in the sun, and washing herface with her feet. I takes her a civil knap on therose, which makes her turn back in thro’ the win¬dow; and the weaver having a plate full of hot pot¬tage in the inner side to cool, poor badrons ran tnro*the middle of them, burnt her feet, and threw themjail to the ground, ran thro’ the house, crying lireand murder in her own language, which caused theweary wicked webster to come running to the door,where he attacked me in a furious rage, and I to avoidthe first shock, fled to the top of the midden, whereendeavouring to give me a kick, I catched him bythe foot, and tumbled him back over into the dirtymidden-dub, where both his head and shoulderswent under dirt and w'ater; but before I could re¬cover my elwand or arms, the wicked wife and herItwa sons were upon me in all quarters, the wifehung in my hair, while the twa sons boxed me bothIbehind and before, and being thus overpowered byinumbers, I was fairly beat by this wicked webster,his troops being so numerous.The same day, as I was going up to a country-housCj I met on the way a poor beggar with a boy,who were both of them bitten in different placesjoy a big mastilT dog; they persuaded me to turnpack, but I said that I should first see him; so up Igoes to the side of a hedge, and cuts a longbrarchie full of prickles, which I carried in my lefthand with my sturdy staff in the right; and as Itame near the house, Mr. Yowffer came roaring up-j)n me, like a lion, he being a tyke of such a mon-itrous size, frighted me so that I ran back; but hebursued me so hard. I was forced to face about, andaolding the briar, which he gripped in his mouth,hid then I stripped it thro’ his teeth, and gave him16The History ofa hearty blow upon his ear with my rung, whichmade him go tumbling towards his master’s doorjand when he got up, he could not fight any, htsmoi:‘h being so full of prickles, by the biting of thebr:ar, which caused him go about yowling, and rub¬bing his mouth with his foot; the people of thehouse came running out to see what was the matte;-.I then shewed them the briar, and telling them theiidog came running to bite me, but my bri .r had bit¬ten him; they then called him in, and fell to pick¬ing the prickles out of his tongue.On the Saturday night thereafter, I was like tqbe badly off for quarters, l travelled until manypeople were gone to bed: but at last I came to a far¬mer’s house, asked what they would buy, namingtwenty fine things which I never had, and then ask¬ed for quarters, which they very freely granted!thinking I was some gentle packman with a ncmpack; but I being weary with travel, could take butlittle or no supper. Being permitted to lie in thespence beside the goodman’s bed, the good ' ife be¬ing very hard of hearing, she thought that everybody was so, for when she went to bed, she criedout, A how hearie, isna yon a brave moderate chap¬man we hae- here the night, he took just seven soupso’ our sowens, and that fill’d him fn’; a dear Andrewman, turn ye about, an’ tak my caulcl a—se in yomwarm lunchoch. On the morrow I went to the kir kjwith the goodman, and I missing him about thedoor, went into the middle of the kirk, but couldsee no empty seats but one big furm, where nonesat but one woman by herself, and so 1 set myselldown beside her, not knowing where I was unti;sermon was over, when the minister began to rebu ke»her for using her Merry-hit against law or licence;and ; hen she began to whinge and yowl like a dog:which made me run out cursing before the ministei17John Cheap the Chapman.had given the blessing. I then came home to mylodging house, and went to dinner with the good-men,. and it being the custom of that place to eatpease bread to their broth, and corn cakes to theirflesh, the goodwife laid down a corn cake and apease scone to the goodman, and the same to me,the pease one for the broth and the corn one for thebeef; and as the goodman and I sat together, whenhe brake off a piece of the pease bread to his broth,I was sure to break as much of th j oat cake below,and when we came to cut the flesh I did the same,iso he eat the coarse and I the fine.PART III.IT TRAVELLED then west by Falkirk, by theh*- foot of the great hills; and one night after I gotJodgings in a farmer’s house, there happened a con¬test between the goodman and his mother, he beinga young man unmarried, as I understood, and for¬merly their sowens had been too thin; so the good-jman, being a sworn birly-man of that barony, came!to survey the sowens before they went on the fire,land actually swore they were o’er thin; and shejswore by her conscience they would be thick enoughjif ill hands and ill een baed awa frae them. Ajsweet be here mither, said he, do ye think that I’ma witch? Witch here or witch there, said the wife,iswearing by her saul, and that was nae banning, shetsaid, they’ll be good substantial meat, a what saywe chapman? Indeed, goodwife, said I, sowens is butjsaft meat at the best, but if ye make them thickienough, and put a good lump of butter in them,18The History ofithey’ll do very well for a supper. I trow sae lad*!said she, ye hae some sense: so the old woman put]!on the pot with her sowens, and went to milk hercows, leaving me to steer; the goodman her sonas soon as she went out, took a great cogful of water and put into the pot amongst the sowens, and;then went out of the house, and left me alone: Iconsidering what sort of a pish-the-bed supper I wasito get if I staid there, thought to set out, but takes;up a pitcher with water, and fills up the pot untilit was running over, and then takes up my packand comes about a mile farther that night, leavingthe honest woman and her son to sup their waterywitcht sowens, at their own leisure.I then turned toward the east, through a placecalled Slamannan, and was lodged one night near aplace called Todd’s Bughts, where there was a boul-horn’d goodvvife, but a very civil goodman; whenI went in, she took up a dish from the dog, whereinwas a few he had left, and with a collection monfrom other cogs, she offered them to me, whichrefused ’em; said she, ye’re a lordly sort of a chapman indeed; so I began to divert the goodman, btelling him a deal of fine stories to make him laughbut could not get near the fire. At last I said,goodwife, I’ll tell you news; Ay chapman, what’:that, said she? Indeed my feet’s very cauld, said Iwhereat they all laught but the goodvvife, she gloom¬ed till the rest were done, and then took a laugh atiit herself: So the goodman ordered all the Jonies,Jamies, and Jennies with their wheels to sit about:then I was set beyond the fire, and preferred to steertheir sowens, but when they were ready and put upin dishes, the goodwife ordered one cf the lads totake a pair of old blankets and two sacks, and showme where I was to lie in the barn: Ho, ho, thinks;I, there’s no supper for me, but 1’il remember this{19John Cheap the Chapman.to pay her stock and annual. So I went to the barnland lay till next morning about chapman’s rising-'time, when the pottage was ready, and then gives thewife a fine cotton lace and a few pins, which pleasedher so well, that she went thro’ the cogs and collect->ed about a mutchkin of pottage for me, for whichI thanked her: A wat well lad, sa>d she, an ye beicoming by any time, ye’s be welcome to a night oour barn, frae ye hae na steal’d naething; thanksito you goodwife, said I, that’s very fair fair. Indeedlad it’s no every ane we’ll trust wi’ our new barn,darfore sud we? O goodwife it wad be a great thiefIthat v ad rin awa wi’ a barn on his back; I wonderye let it stand out all night; Hute awa’ ye daft'body, how can we get it in, ke awa chapman, ye’reijoking me now. I then took a turn round thefcountry for two weeks, and then came back to bejavenged on the naughty wife and her sowens. It'being very dark or 1 came in, the goodwife did not:know me, but made her speech as follows: Indeed,ye’se no be here; for there is so mony thieves and(robbers gawn athort the kintry, and our goodman’smo at hame; art thou honest enough? I can wantmaething o’ my honesty, goodwife; but did ye everisee any people gawn thro’ the kintry telling theyiwere thieves ? Na, a wat well no, said she: then said;I, I’m sure 1 did not take away your barn on myback the last time I was here, Yea lad, said she,are ye the chapman that cracket sae well to ourjgoodman ? come in by, ye’se get a night o’ the barnfyet; Thanks to you goodwife, an we sud get naermair. I then being preferred to my old seat, and;got the sowens to steer, until they were near ready,(when the goodwife ordered the lad to take the old(blankets, and shew me to my bed in the barn; Ith en gave the sowens the last turn, and having about20The History ofthe bigness of a nut of C—1 S—p, drops it into thinpot. then went off to bed in the barn as fast as J|could, and made fast both the doors within, lestlthe bewitched sowens, our of the pot. should attack]me in my sleep. Next morning when I came in, th«good wife began to pray for herself and all that sh<had, saying, It’s Wednesday through a’ the warldiand good be between me and you chapman, for ye’reeither a witch or a warffck, or something that’s nccanny, for ye witcht our sowens last night, for theygaed mad, rag’d out the pot, belling and bizzing likebarm, 1 thought they wad run out to the barn udyou; see how they fill’d up my milk-tub, and a’ thedishes in the house is fu’ o’ them. Dear goodwufe,said I, they were very good when I left them, thojlI did not prie them, and I wish’d them as much goodof them as I got, but certainly they’re not witcht,but a blessing in them, when they are so multiplied;Gae awa, cried she, in a passion, ye’re no cansy,ye’s ne’er be here again. I need not value that, saidI, for I have nothing to thank you for, but my din¬ner, supper, and breakfast, a«td for a night of yourbarn, I’ll pay it when I come back. Ay, ay, saidshe, ye need nae thank me for what ye did not get.That’s no my fault, goodless good wife, said I, pros;perity to you and your witch’d Sowens.The next little town l came to, and the first housewhich I entered, the wife cried out, Plague onyour snout Sir, ye filthy black-guard chapmen likeb h it ye are, the last time ye came here, ye gardour Sandy burn the good bane-kame, it I gide a sax-jpence for in Falkirk, ay did ye, ay, sae did ye een,}and said, ye would gie him a muckle clear buttonto do it. Me, said 1, l never had ado with you a’the days of my life, and do not say that Sandy ismine. A wae worth the body, am I saying ye hadado’wi’me, I wadna hae ado wi’ the like o’ you, not21John Cheap the Chapman,,1, am sure wi’ them I never saw. But what aboutbutton and the bane-kame, goodwife? Sannocktis na this the man? Ay is't, cried the boy, gie mejmy button, for I burnt the kame, and she paid me■ifor’t. Gae awa sir, said I, your mother and you aredmt mocking me It was either you or ane like you,jor some other body. O goodwife, I mind who it ismow, ’tis ane just like me, when ye see the tane yetee the tither, they ca’ him Jock Jimpither A waeworth him, quo’ the wife, if I winna thrapple himfor my good bane-kame. Now, said I, goodwife beicqod, bridle your passion, and buy a bane kame andrrolour’d napkin, I’ll gie you a whaken pennyworth.will gar you sing in your bed, if I should sell the4ae half and gift you the tither, and gar you pay for•every inch o’t sweetly or a’ be done. .Hech man,laid she, ye’re a hearty fallow, and 1 hae need o’ a’these things, but a bane-kame I maun hae; for ouribannock’s head is a’ hotchin, and our John’s is littleaetter, for an let them alane but ae aught days, they’llrrow as girt as grosets. And here I sold a bane-kameIrnd a napkin, for she believed such a douse lad as I. bad no hand in-making her son burn the bone-comb.The next house I came into, there was a very lit-':le taylor, sitting on a table like a t—d on a trun-:her, w ith his legs plet over other, made me imagineae was a sucking three footed taylor. First 1 soldbim a thimble, and then he wanted needles, whichl showed him one paper after another. He lookingheir eyes and trying their nebs in his sleeve, droptthe ones he thought proper on the ground betweeniris feet, w here he sat in a dark corner near the hre,hinking I would rot perceive him. O, said he,hem needles of yours is not not good man, I’ll notouy any of them. I do not think you need, said I,' akmg them out of his hands, and lights a candle was.handing near by. Come, said I, sit about you thiev-22The History ofing dog til! I gather up my ueedles, (gathers up te;of them.) Come, said he, I’ll buy twal penny’s worthof them, frae I troubled you sae muckle. No, saitlI, you lousie dog, I’ll sell-you none, if there’s any oi*the ground, seek ti em up i d stap them in a beast’!arse: but if ye were a man, I would burn you in th*fire, tho’ it be in your own house, but as you are wpoor taylor and neither man nor boy, I’ll do nothinjbut expose'you for what you are. O dear hones;chapman, cried his wife, ye maunna do tat and IVgie you cheese and bread. No, no, you thieves, I’nfor nothing but vengeance; no bribes for such. Scas I was lifting my pack, there was a pretty blac^cat which I spread my napkin over; took the foujcorners in my hand, carrying her as a bundle, until!I came about the middle of the town, then provokMing the dogs to an engagement with me, so that thercame upon me four or five collies. Then I threwthe poor taylor’s cat in the midst of them, thereterrible battle ensued for some time, and badronhad certainly died on the field, had 1 not interposeand got her off mortally wounded. people whdsaw the battle, alarmed the taylor, and fie sallied ou ilike a great champion with his elwand in his handGo back, said I, you lousie dog, or I’ll tell about thtneedles; at which word he turned about. I weninto an ale-house to get some breakfast. There the;asked where I was alhnight, as it was usual in thacountry for chapmen to get meat where they lodgedI told them where I was, but would take none otheir meat; because, said I, they seem to me not t<be canny, for this morning they were making ropeof cold sowens to-crown up their stacks wi’. Gaiawa’, cripd the wife, I canna believe it. If you vvilnot believe it, die in your ignorance for me. Thwife sent away her son to see if it wras so, but or h«Came back I set out, and travelled down the side of23John Cheap the Chapman.i a river called Evan. And as I was coming past ai mill-dam, there was a big clownish fellow lifting aipitcher of water out of the dam. So as he dipt it•full and set it down on the ground, staring at me,:he tumbled in himself out of sight over head and‘ear.'-.; and as soon as he got out, I said, Yo ho friend,I did you get the fish? What an a fish, ye b—h. O;said I, 1 thought ye had seen a fish, when you jum-iped in to make it jump out. What a dtil Sir, areyou mocking me? runs round his pitcher, and gives"me a kick on the arse, so that I fell designediy onhis pitcher, and it tumbled down the bank, and wentin pieces. His master and another man looking andilaughing at us, the poor fellow complained of me:to him but got no satisfaction.The same evening, as I was going towards thetto^ n of Linlithgow, meets an old crabbed fellowriding upon an old glaid mare, which he always wasa-threshing upon with his stick. Goode’en to you,igoodman, said I, are you going to the bull wi’ yourunare? What do you say Sir, they gang to the bullwd a cowr ye brute. O yes, goodman, ye are right,•raid I, but how do they call that he-beast that rides'ton the mare’s back. rihey ca’t a cusser Sir. A wellIlhen goode’en to you master cusser. He rides a littlebit, then turns back in a rage, saying, I say Sir, yourlast words are waur nor your first. He comes thenat the flight, to ride me down; but I struck bis beaston i he face, and in the short turn about, it fell, yet■pr 1 could get my pack to the ground, he cuttedmelin the head at the first stroke: 1 then getting clearM the pack, played it away for son e time, till byplows on the face, I made him blood at both mouthit d rose: then he cried out, Chapmen, we are baithllaft, for we’ll kill ourselis and mak naething o’t,jve had better gree. With all my heart, said l, andThat will ye buy? Nothing but a pair of beard24The History of, Sfc.sheers, said he, and give me them cheap. So I soldhim a pair of P sheers for three halfpence, and gavehim a needle, then parted good friends after thebattle was over.So I went to Linlithgow that night, where I metwith Drouthy Torn my sweet and dear companion,and here we held a most terrible encounter with thetippeny for two nights and a day; and then we setout for Fife, on the hair order, by the way of Tory-burn and Culross, and coming up to a parcel of wo.men, washing by a water-side, I buys one of theirhairs; the time I was cutting it off, Tom fell a court¬ing and kissing a girl among them who was of thehaverel sort. What happened I know not, but shecried out, ye misleard filthy fallow, ye put your hand!atween my feet, mair need anither thing sud be thereiAn ill chance on your picture, cried an old wife, fonmony a ane has tane me by there in daffing, and 1neer said a word about it, a wheen dafi jades, can-na ye baud your tongues whan it’s to your shame yespeak. Gae awa’, cried the lass, he filthy body athe is, the last chapman that kiss’d me had a horsedpack, but he’ll hae naething in his but a wisp o’ strae,some auld breeks, hair-skins, mauken-skins, onything that fills the bag and bear bonk, and yet hewould kiss and handle me, hech I was made for abetter fallow; ane of them came by ae day, and sell’dour Meg twa ell and a quarter o’ linen to be her bri¬dal sark, for he had nae mair, and when she madeit, and pat it on, it wadna hide her hech, hech, he;1FLMS.1