3A ShortA T E C HIS Mfrith feme Pafiajres of Scripture, con-f taining the Prindpil I^EAOSof the CHRISTIAN6 RELiGIQN. . ' '1 ^ To v/hich is ad-dedme Pious Meditations on feveral Sentences| of the Scripture^ which will be of greatsj Advantage to us, if we frequently andifcrioufly confider them..' was fuid by them of old time. That a:: ierious and confiderat Mind is the begin-ling of all Good.ijMatrfi. i 16. Wb tt is a wan prated, if he fidBgkiit'w whole world,: and lofe hit own foul i _ n, .1 Luke 9 25. JVhat is a man advantaged, if he gain theMe world, and hfe himfdf, orht cafi away ?2 Tir.ctfiy 3. 1 ?. dnd that from achild thou haft knownholy Scriptures, which arc able to make thee wife unto falvt-througb faith, which is in Chrift Jefat.EDINBURGH,Inted by the Heirs and Succeflbrs of Andrew Andtrfn,Printer to the Qu-em moil Excellent Majefty,Anno DOM. »70J.V^O/OF SCOTLAffOJOS t8. Behold the Fear of the LORD, that is Widom, and to depart from evil is underftanding. VEtdef. i*. 13. Fear GOD and keep his Commancmeats: for this is the whole Duty of Man.Pfal. r 11.1. Blefled is the Man that feareth the LOREthat delighteth greatly in his Comreandmants.Prav. it. 1,4. Happy is the Man that feareth ala-ay, ^11. 4- By humility and the fcar-of the LORD atRiches and Honour, and Life.Philip, a. la. ——Work out your Salvation witFear and Trembling. 13, For it is GOD that workerin you, both to will and to do of his good pleafurc,Htb. n. at. — Let us have Grace wheieby we maServe GOD acceptably, with Reverence and Gotfl jc,Fear, apt For our GOD is a confuming Fire-1 Pet. 1. 17. — We are Commanded to pafs thtime of our Sojourning here in F*ar.( Car. 3. 18. Let ne Man deceive himfelf: if an;Man among you feemerh to be wife in this WorldJet him become a Fool, that he may be Wife.Jmm. 3, 13. Who is a wife Mm and endued witiKnowledge amongft you ; let him (hew out of a gooiConverfation his Works with meeknefs of wifdom.GOD makes Men wife by Reading and Hearing HiWord, =<nd Meditating on it, and Praying to him fothe Affidance of his Spirit, that we may duely endeavour to frame the temper of our Minds, and thComic of our Life by it*CATECHISM-QUESTION i.T 7C 7H* ?(ix/V god-! V V Q. 2. </ god?>#. He is a Spirit,infinite in wifdom,poorer,»fui fi8«s4:refs; the Maker, and Ruler Of all things.I Q. 1. Is thtre but ene GtJ ?< There is only one, the living and true God.l Q. 4. Hwmaitj Pcrftns »n there ih the Gtd-bead ?/». There are three Peifens in the God-head; theijttrber, the Smi, and the holy Ghoft ; and thefe three;ire one.1 Q. y. Htv did Gist credteman ?He created him after his own Image,in righteouf-Ijnefs Md true holinefs-l Q- 6. Did man ctntinue in that eftafte ?ii A. No, for our firft Parents brake the Commandmentpf God, in eating the forbidden fruit; and fo brought:i :hemfelves and their pofterity into an eftate of fin anilImifery.Q, 7. What is fin ?4 Sin is the breaking any of the Commandments ofpod.Q. 8. What doth Jin deferve ?A. Every fin deferves the wrath and curfe of God, -ijlboth in this life, and that which is to come,<^. 9. Do you then deferve the wrath of God ?A. Yes, I deferv* it, and have great reafon to fear itHQ. 10. Is there any way to be favedfrom that Wrath andrfi whitb is due to us ?A Yes, forjefus Chrift the eternal Son of God, ha*ving taken on him our nature, ho humbled himfelf,A 2 an4and became obedient even to the death of the CrofsJthat he might redeem us from it.Q. i t. Wk? jhAll b* ftvtd by Jefui Chrilf Jrm the wratbmend tiirU tfQid ^ -Thefe whtMiive true frith in him, who unfeigned*Jy repent of their fins, and do fincerely obey his Com¬mandments.Q, It. tPh.1t hfdith m Jejat Chrifl ?A. It is a faving grace by which we both believe hhfwhole doftrine, and truft in him as our only Saviourand Redeemer ; and intirety give up our felves to himto be taughr. fared, and ruled by him as cur Prophet,Prieft, and King.Q. t Rcbefirfejhe A'tides of our Faith ?A. I believe in Cod the Father Almighty, &t.Q 14. fVbat.is'Repentance ?A, It is a godly ibrrow for fin ; and an hearty andreal tmmrig from if unto God.Q, rj. What is the'tile of our obedience ?Ji. .The. wiil<t)£Cod, as it is conf^iaed in the Scrip¬tures, aid paVticmarly in theTen ^o.mmandmentSrQ. (6. Rthe'frleJfo Ten^ Cpmmqndwpts ?A. I am r^e-LQ/4 thy God, d''».Q., 17. Wiat j: thefum vbub tur Saviour hath -given of ■.the COKtmanctments ?A. Thou fhalt love the Lord thy God with all thineheart, with all thy foul, and with all thy mind, andwith afl thy Itrength; and, thy neighbour as thy ielf.'Q 18. \VhoJe txdrnpU fhouli we follow in obeying the Laws y, of God? : . ' i ■ t a ■ ,A.- r he exemplc.nf'our Lord JefusChrift. who hathVommande^Lus to d«nv eur,/elves, and Co cake, up ourj;crofs dally and foiiovy himQ.. rp. tfhereiit art roe to f lion him?A. We mu!), as he did, often pray-o God,and,praifehim; and muu give up our felves .wholly to the will of,G d m-alitpings, even inithe flivpaO: .aflliaions andfuffsrings} and we muitnotdo our own.will, nordef‘ fignbTign ©urownpralfe or advantage, but ihsll things mu ftido his will, snd feek his glory,• Q; 20. Arc we not liktwifctofoUow hint in'clhritjlcwards' 'ur Neighbour ?. A- Yes, wc tnffft according to 'his exaiftpk tmfeign-dly laveotir GhlrftTah Brethren, and be kind alidcha-‘irable to all* men, even to ourmemies, forgiving them,irayir.g for them, and doing them good fcsreviT, Wei nuft comfort the aiflifted, and relieve the-podr i/andijuft carefwHy abftain from flandering, mocking, andlefpifing our"rfeighbour,and from ddiiigorwiihnig himmV kind of w rong. ;• ‘ Q 21. fit what eife wufi we follow him ? : ' •We mud follow him in meeknefs,' and humility,iolinefs Md purity, in contempt of the world,' and pa-ience und^r reproaches and all manner of inj.urres:and in[ II the other excellent yertues whtch ftined'f'rrhin him.Q 2 2. V.jy wr not then live as ot'h^'s atnpt. jl'1 ^ _rJ.iQ, 23 But may we not hofe to be favtd through the mer^L of God for Chrifls fake, though weneghNfheferformanee ofhefe things ? :A. Cortaitily the mccy of God is fo great that hef y ill.on the account of Chirfts merits,'pardbn all peni-|ent fihne.rs: but it is as certaio that he will not lpare,(•or pity j biltAvn] punife with evedafting deftruftionIII who do not' rcp?ot and*obey theGdfpef.Q 24. But may won't fhift off and 4? lay-'oiirrcpentantafU another time, or even to the approeeh of death ;■j'1. No, by no means; for we have already hiifpentdo much of our flio/t time; and we do mu ktibw howDon death fliall come,nor if God will then giVe'Us glaceo repent.Q. 25. Js it net enough that w’htpvertjpetf'only to'fome ofCommandments of God, though in other things rre do 'tur0 willyt ani fulfil our own dtjiret :A 3 NoNo, fer l»c moft endeavoar to keep all Code CoiBundmems, and to be holy in all manner of converfat:©n; etherwife we are not trueChriftians.but hypocritesQ. ad But having obtained frtat mtelure *f hdintfs, ma \»e ntt fit dtmtt, and ament tttrfthct vithit ?A No,but we muft continue in welWoingto the emapd muft ftill grow in grace, and go on unto ptrfeftioiQ, 17. Art vt 9/ tur feivts able to perform. aU theft things ?A. No but we muft be enabled by the Spirit of God.Q. ;8. Art ve then to be idle, and do nothing?A No, but we nauft be diligent in the ufe of tlmeans, reading,hearing the Word of God& meditatinj ,on it, confideration of o«r ways, Prayers, a^d receivingthe Sacraments. {Q ap. Rtktarfe tht form tf Prajer which m Saviour hathtaught ut ?A. Our Father which art in Heaven, &e.Q 30. H-w many Sacraments are there ?A- Two, Baptifs* and the Lords Supper.Q. 31. What doth Baptifm figrifie and Ctal?A, Our walking from fig, and our new birth inChrift Jefus.Q. j l . What are ve obliged to by being baptized into Chrifl-d. To renounce the devil, the world, andtheflefli}and fa. obey the Laws of Jslus Cbrift.Q. 3 j. What doth, the l^ordt Sapper fignifi; and feal ?A. Our SpiritUAl nourifijment and giowth in him,and the transfoiming us more and more into his like*nefs; by remetnbfiiig his death, and feeding on his. body':and, blood, under the ft^ures of Bread and Wine.Q. 34- Are aU fit for receiving tht Lords Supper ?A Only thefe who do truely believe in Chrift, unlei^siedly repent of their (ins, have charity towards allWen, and fincerely refolve to obey the Laws of God-Q. jy. What it the hazard 0)thefe who tat this bread, and. k this cup of the Lord unworthily ?A. They are guilty of the body and blood of the Lort).and cat and drink damnation to cherofwres.Q 3*;Qr 36 Wh»t fh*U it the final portion of theft who truly it-ve, repent, and ebty the Gefpel ?t A. Evcrl?.fting life, with God and his holy Angels.JQ 37. fVbatfl all be the final portion of unbelieving andpenitent fianeri ?t Everhiting torment*,with tha Devil and hi$ Angels.FINIS.13The Ten CO MMJNDMEbTTS, EXOD jo.^ OD fpake all thefe Words, faying, I am the LORDLLJ thy GOD, which have brought thee out of theiland of Egypt, out of the Houfe of bondage.I I- Thou fcalt have no other Gods before Me.I II. Thou fhalt not make unto thee any graven I-| uge, or any likenefsof any thing that is in heaver* a*. ove, or that is in the earth beneath, or tha is in theUater under the earth ; thou thalt not how down thy" If to them, nor ferve them : For I the^Ssyd thyod am a jea ous God, virtting the iniquityth*'athers upon the Children, unto the third and fourth^iteration of them that hare me : and fhewing mercyinto thoufands of then* that love me and keep my'lommandrnenrs.III. Thou fhalc not take the Name of the Lord thysd in vain ; For the Lord will not hold him guiltlefth't tjkerh his Name in vain.IV. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy ; fixfays flulc thou labour and do all thy work : but theeventfa day rr the Sabbath of the Lord thy God, in ithou flnlt net do any work, thou, nor thy fnn, norEhy daughter, thy man-fervant» nor thy maid-fervanr,ior thy cartel, nor thy llranger that to within thy gates:7or in fix days the Lord made heaven and earth, the:a, and all that in them is, and relied the feventhlay i wherefore the Lord blefled tile Sabbath day, andtallowed it.V. HonourV. Hononr tby fariier *nd tliy mother: that t;days may be Jong upoii the land which the Load ti [God giveth thee, '. VI. Thou flaaft kill.VH. Thou (halt not commit adultery;VIII. Thou lhalc not fteal.IX. Thou (halt nofe bear falfe witnefs aEainft th 1neighbour.- X Thou fh a It not covet thy n?fghti?urs houft.tho ?fhalt not covet thy neighbours wite, nor his man-fer > .vanr, nor his maid-fervaat, nor his ex, nor his ail !aor any thing that is thy ndghbours.Ihi LORDS Prayer Mat. <5.OUr Father which arc in Heaven, hallowed be thy •Nanif. Thy kingdom come, . Thy will be dc nt som earth, it .is in heaven ; Give us this day ouji ('bread J And forgive us our debts, as we for* :give our debtors ; And.lead us not into temptation^ «but deUver us from evil: For thine is the Kingdom, >.and the Power, and the Glory, for ever. Amen.The CREED.I Believe in Hod the Fati'er Almighty, Maker ofHeaven and Earth : and in Jefus Chrift, his “ionly Son cur Lord,, which was conceived;by rhe holy !Ghoft, born cf the Mary, buffered u uler fonti*; Ius Pilate, was crucified, dead and bu- _ jiffed; He delcended into hell, (a) the ( ») i. e. Centim-lh?*d day he fofe again from the eJ in the ftate of,dead, jie afeended into, heaven, and the. dead, <*nd ■fitteth at the right hand of GpTt^e under the firmer if |Father Almighty, from tHence he Dea h till: the ■•fliaj) come to judge the quick and the third day.dead : I believe in the holy Ghoft ; _the Holy Catholick Church, the CommurMon ^Sa.int;s,^hs forgivennefs of fins, the refum&ion of the, body, 1ayid the life everhlting' Am.n.SomeartiePaffages of Scripture, containing thePrincipal Heads of Chriftian Religion.I. Of god.Oh. 4. 54. God is a Spirit-   ■ • - *t Rev. 4. 8. Holy, holy, holy Lord God Almighty,^ hich was, and is, and is to come.' Pfalm ttf. $, Great is eur Lord,and of great power;i s underftandihg is infinite.Extid. 34. 6. The Lord, the Lord God, mercifuld gracious, long-fuffering, and abundant in goodneisid truth: . ^ ^ •i Vi’J. 7. Keeping mercy for thoufands, forgiving ini"jiity, and tranfgrelfibn, and Snf and that will by nocleans clear the guilty -—“ *I£»£»:. 6. 4.   The Lord our God is one Lord.j John 5. 7, There are three that bear record in■leaven, th^ Father, the Word, and the Holy Gfaoft,d thefe three are one.II, Of the Creation, the Fall, the Sin, andMifcry of Man* .metief. 1, 26. And God faid. Let us make man in outjjtige, after our likv>ncfs —n^erfi 17. So God mad-i man in his own image, in theI age of God created he him mcclef 7. sp. —Gr d made man upright •—-jitm. j. 11. — By one man fin enrred into the worl^,;3 death by fin, and fo death paflsd upon all menthat all have finned.\tm, 3; 23. AH have finned, and come fhort of thery of Gsdi*]»lm yt. 5. Behold I was Ihapen in iniquity, andin did my mother conceive me.III. Of the Reeltmption of Mankind fy Jcfus Ohrift.'thn 3. God fo loved the world, that he gave hrVonlyonly begotten Son ; that whofoever belfeveth in [;j!Cxould not perifh. but have everlsfting life.i. JnhH 4 9. In this was manifefted the love of Gjltowards us, b;caufe that God fenc hif only begot™Son to the world, that we might I've through him. |Ferfu la. Herein is love,not that we loved God, b|that he leved us, and feat his Son to be the propkiJ' -on for our fins.« Pet. 3, 18. Chriff alfo hath once fufferedforfi ithe juft forthcunjuft, that be might hriitg as re 6od'|:1 Pet. 2. t4- Who his own felf bare our fins in ||own body on the free, that we being dead to fin.tnial'live unto righteoufnefs; by whofe IhipeS ye are healclTit. 2. 14, Who gave rkmfelf for us, that he mig ■redeem us from all iniquity; and purifie unto himfia peculiar people, zealous of good works.IV. Of the Terms on vek'eb r»e may obtain Ssihai:<rrtby Chrifl. '/4&- 6- 30.—He faid,Sns what muft I do to be favei'FerJ'e 3 i. And they faid, Believe on the Lord Jefij ‘andrhou {halt be fsved.4Bs 3 19. Repent, and be converted tbit ro|ins may be blot ed out, when the times cf rsfrefhit{hall come from the prefence of the Lord .//i. jr. 6. -5e k the Lord, while he may be foundcall on him, while he is near. gP'erfe 7. Let the wicked forfake Irs way a dtheutrighteous man his thoughts j and let him return urathe Lord, and he will have mercy upon him, >ri^|jour God, for he will abundantly paid n< ,Luke 9. 13, If any man will come after me, ^let hideny hitnfelf.and take up his erofs daily and f«llibut. 11. 28. Come to me all ye that labour, andJtiheavy laden, and l w^lJ give you reft. ityerfe 29. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of mt!for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye (kail find rep1unto your foujsr . IJVtrft djnrje 30. For-iny yoke is eafie, and my burden,is!fri* s 9- Being made perfeft, he became the authorternal falvation, to all them that obey Kim.ohn 14, 1If ye love me, keep my CommandBieats*i’tbn iy. 14, Ye are my friends, if ye do whatfoeverrommand you.•Thus 2. ti. The grace of Gad whick bringeth fal*lion bath appeared to all men ;'yerfe 12, Teaching us that denying ungodlinefs, andrldlylafts, we Qiould live foberly, lightcoufly, andidly in this prefent world,Wtab 6. 8. Be hath (hewed thee, O man, what is good;il what doth the Lord thy God require cf thee, but to!'f juftly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly withIlf God ?|3«/. 3 .5. Mortifie therefore your members which ar«on the earth, fornication, uncleanaefs, inordinateIjjsQbn* evil concupifceece, and cevccoufsefs whicjifil idolatry,•forfi 6. For which things fake, the wrath ef Godteth on the chil.Jren of dilbbedience.irfe S.—-Put off all thefe, ange,% malice,fphemy, filthy cot»munrca ion out of your mouth*Vr/* 9 Lie not, one te another Verfe 12. Put on as the «lecl of God, holy aad he¬ed .bowels ef mercies, kiHtinefs,humblenefs of mind,eknefs, InngfufFering.''tr/* 13. Forbearing one another, and forgiving oneitber, if any man have a quarrel agamft any, even aSrift forgave you, fo -alfo do ye,'Strfe 14. And above all thefe things put cn charity,*ich is the bond. cf perfeQnefsr: Ibtff. 4* it. And that ye ftudie to be quiet, anddo your own buftnefs, and to work with your own)ds, as we commiinded you.1 Pet. a. 17. Fear GOD. Honour the King,13. I, Let every foul be fubje& unto the high-fr powers. For there Js no power but of God;powers that be, are ordained of God. )yerfe s. Whofoever therefore refifteth the poi '■refifterh the ordinance of God.* and they that rfliall. receive to themfcives damnation.i Thef. y. 12. And we'befeech you, brethren,know chem which labour among you, and are 0you in the Lord, and admonilh you ;yer/e 13. And to efteem them very highly in Ifor their works fake-Net. 13.17. Obey them that have the rule over yji rand fubmit your felves, for they watch for your, foi aas they that muft give account; that they may drwith joy and not with’grief, for that is unprofitufor you.Co1. 3. rj. Wives fubmit your felves to your omhusbands, « it is fie in the Lord.yitr/e 19. Husbands, love your wives, and be «biiter againft them.Epbef. 6. i. Children obey your parents in the Lsrfor rliis is rightiyer/c 4. And ye Fathers, provoke not yout Childrt ;to wrath : but bring them up in the nurture and atmonition of the Lord.■Cel. 3. ti. Servants obey in all things yourMafte •according to the fltfli, not with eye-fervice as mel s'pleafers, but in fingle^efs of heart. Fearing God. -Vj ;2 (/'erje aj,. A d whatfoever ye do, do it heaitily^ )) t.to.theLo^d,: and not unto men.Cll. x. ’. Ma/ltrs give unto yourferyants that whicis juiV and equal, k owing that ye alfo have a Maftfjn heaven. iiMxctk. -j. u, Therefore all things, whatfoever y |would thntmen fiipuld do to you, do ye .even fo,ciithem. fM»rh. n. 13. He that fliall endure to the end fliajbe fayed. V6. 9' Let us not be weary of welldoing, foras feafon we lhall reap, if we faint not.jv. 2. io. Be thou faithful unto death, and I willthee a crown of life.V. Of tht neccfiity of ptrfermtrg tke/e things.n 3. 36. He that belfeveth on the Son hathever-g life : and he that believeth not the Son, lhaliLe life j but the wrath of God abideth on him.b 13. 3, y. Except ye repent ye fhall all perifli.si. J3f 11 Ai 1 live faith the Lord God, I have noure in the death of the wicked, but that the wickedfrom his way-and live. Lutn ye, turn ye, fromevil ways, for why will ye die?tk. 18. 30. —Repent and turn your fclves fromlaur tranfgreffions, fo iniquity fliall not be your.‘ft 31. Caff away from you all your trapfgrefnons|«by ye’have tranfgtefTed, and make you a new,“I and a new fpirit, for why will ye die ?"•/« 3 2. For I have no pleafure in the death of himdieth, faith the LordGod ; wherefore turn your .I, and live ye<n 3. 3.  —Except a man be born again, he can*ee the kingdom of God.ftth. 18. 8. Except ye be converted, and becometie children, ye fliall not enter into the kingdomsaven.•■ke 6 4<?. Why call ye me Loid, and do not the5s which I fay ?b- is, 14. Follow prace with all men; and holithour which no man ftud fee the Loid.Coy, 6 9. Kn : w ye not that the xmrightec us Hullaherjt the kingdom of tod ? Ee net deceived,er fornicators, nor idolaters, nor aduketeis, norunite, nor abufsrs of thcmfelv^s with mankind;r/e le. Net thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkardsi- noiner rcvilers, nor extortioners, fliall inherit the ktdom of God.Hti. i». jS. If any man draw back, my foiil fhall hno pleafure in hi(n<VI, Of tbi mentis ef obtaining grace from Gtd, and forabling us to do theft things.Luke ii. 9. Ask and it fhall be given yon, feek :ye Ihsll find, knock and it (hall ke opened imto yo mP'erjt -to. For every one that asketh, recsiveth; ahe thatfeekcth, finderh; and to him that knockethftall be opened.Vtrfe i?. If ye being evil, know bow to give gcthings unto your c'uldien; how much more fliall y»,heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them thathim?1 Pf/.j.ai. The like figure whereurrto, even Bapti .doth alfo now fave us, notthe putting away the fi ,of the flelh, but the anfwer of a good confciencewards God, by the pefurrefHon of Jefus Chrift.1 Cor. 11. 23.  The Lord Jefus the fame nijin which he was betrayed, took bread :Ferlt 54. And when he had given thanks, he brit, and faid, T%ke, ear; this is my body which is bken for you: this do in remembrance of me,faerie 1$. After the fame manner alfo he took l .cup when he had fupped, faying, This cup is the N jTcflament in my blood : this do ye, as oft as ye driit, in remembrance of ta \Verfe 26. For as often as ye eat this bread, and diithis cup, ye do ftiew the Lords death till become.1 O-. 10.6. The cup of blefiing which we blefs,, 1'it not the communion of the blood of Chrift ? Ibread which we break, is it nor the communion of lbody of Chrift ?Pfal. 1 '9. 9. Wherewith (hall a young man cleai ihis way ? by taking heed thereto according to tWord. rtrlo ITcrle 11. Thy Word have I hid in my heart, that"!!;ht not fin againft thee.fprls-yp. I thought on my ways, and turned my feetto thy teftimoH''es.irft 6a. Imade hafte, and delayed not to keep thyihmandmertts.htv. ,3. y. Ttuft in the Lord with all thy heart, andSt not unto thine own underHanding.: We 4. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he Stallift thy paths ■I. Of the f»ur laH thing/, ttwit. Death, and Judgement,Heaven, and Hell.lei. 9. *7. It is appointed unto men once to die,butr this the JuJg-ment.ehn y. The hour is coming, in the which all thatin f he graves, Oval I hear his voice,ferje *9. And Stall come forth, thefe that have donel.d, unro the refurreftion of life, and they that haveae evil, unto the refurrettinn of damnation*Cer y. io* We muS all appearbeforethejudge-»t-feat of Chrift,that every one may receive the th ngslie in his body, according to that he bathdone whe-r it be good or bad.i.l»ith. 2<j. 34V TheA Stall the king fay unto them onright haa-d, Copte yt blcfled of my Pathrr, inheritKingdom prepared for you fiom the foundation ofWorld.‘Serfc 4t. Then Stall he fay alfo to them on rhe left■ id, Depart from me, ye curfed, into everlaSing■, prepared for th? Devil and his Angels.r rfe 46, And thefe Stall go away into everlaftingnilhment, but the righteous i«to life eternal.a Thef,4a Thejf. *.7-  * Th« Lordjefus Oiall be revdMfrom Heaven with his nvghty AngelsVtrfe 8 In flaming fire, taking vengeance on the !, that know not God, arid that obey not the Gofpelour, Lord Jefus Chriflv&y\t 9 vtfho flull be puniflied vvith everlafting cftfu£tipn from tjte prefence of the Lord, and from t,g'ory of his power ; when he fliall be glorified in hSaints, and to be admired in all them that believe.<• : ^ VTA/E mull often for fome fpace of Time, wit;V V draw our felves from all feeular Affairs, anfrom the Company of others, that recolle*ting our Minds from all other Thoughts ahd Care;and retiring our felves from the noife of Bufinefand Company, we may with greater freedom atrenunto, and Meditate upon rhefs things, which GOIhath revealed to us in his Word, y/e are to Confideand Meditate upon them for making us truly Wifethat we may throughly underftand thetn, and may lajthem up -n our Hearts, and feel rhe Power and Efficaicy thereof, and may relifli them,and feed and nourillour felves thereby;FINIS.■ Pious MEDITATfON' Ou feveralitences of SCRIPTURE.Acquaint ihy Self with GOD.mt is to Acquaint cur Selves with GOD, d'!i'gently to confider Him,-Is he Rcprefents Him"felf to us irt his Word and Works j and tod fix our Minds upon thefe Glorious and infi-:rfeftions, which Chine forth therein; and efpe*.hofe which have a tendencie to mnve, perfwadetraft our Souls to him, fuch as his infinite Powerftice, by which we may be awakened to fear hisdue to us for our fins ; his Patience, Ji odnefs,and Love, bv which we may be^ncouraged toS F^vour, and moved to quite all things for hitp,choqfe Kim for our only, Portion. And toT all thath« prppofes in his Word fe.r moving*alk in his ways ^ and all the Effifts tf his ?ro-e in the conduct of humane Affairs, whereinbe feen his-Care and Concerqe.dnefs fir goodand his Severity towards Impenitent and obfti-nnners ; and often to refleft upon what w*o know of GOD^ and to mmd him often, infoicisknofcntous.To Seek GOD.D,-who is the only t/ue Good of. Man, ofFersf-- to us in His Son ]ESp$CHRIST, and is toid' by us. To feck him iheri. is ^xecfly to dc-e attaWmerfr* ofthat rf.ftnrte Gpcd.'^ d'fo diretiol« CduAdtthithervf'ark,. and dutgeni’y; to app^ves to walk in rhofe v/iys, which arc prefcriucdding Men to the Pofieilion of it.B . T,a Thejf. 1.7. —— The Lord Jefus Qiall be ufrom Heaven with his m'ghty Angelsyerfe 8 In flaming firci taking vengeance 0, that knbW not Gi d, and that obey not the Gto^r.Lmd Jefus Chrifl.ftrj/ g.1 Who fhall be punifhed with everlafliftfuftiqn from tjte prefence of the Lord, and fng'oryoifhis power ; when he fliall be glorifiedSaints, and to be admired in all them that believmuft often for feme fpace of Time,V V draw our fclves from all feeular Affair:from the Company of others, that retting our Minds from all other Thoughts ahdand retiring our felves from the noife of Btand Company, we may with greater freedomunto, and Meditate upon rhefe things, whichhath revealed to us in his Word, \ye are to Coand Meditate upon them for making us trulythat we may throughly underftard th«rn, and m,them up in our Hearts, and feel rhe Power and 1cy thereof, and may relifli them.and feed and nrour felves thereby:FINIS.Seme Pious. MEPITATfON3 On f^veralSentences of SCRIPTURE.iAcquaint ihy Self with GOD.T Hie is t® Acquaint our Selves with GOD, (jHI'gently to confider Him/as he Rcprefents Hin-."felf to us in his Word and Works and toay and fix our Minds upon tHefe Glorious and infi-lite Perfeftions, which fhine forth therein; and efpef.ially thofe which have a tendencie to move, periwadeid attraft eur Souls to him, fuch ashis infinite Powerfid Juftice, by which we may be awakened to fear his1/rath due to us for our fins ; his Patience,/i odnefs,lercy and Love, by which we may be^nco^raged tolek hisFavour, and moved to quite all things for. hitp,[rd to choqfe Kim for our nnly. Pprtio.B. And to:)nfider all that he proppfes ip his \Yg*d for moyipgf to walk in his ways,* and all the EffiCts cf his pyo-idence in the conduft of humane Affairs, whereine to be feen hisCare and Concerrjednefs X\r goodten, and his Severity towards Impenitent and oblti-»te Sinners ; and often to reflect upon what w«ime to know of GODK and to murdhimteften, infoi r as he is knb«’n to tis.to Seek COD.! GOD, who is the only true Good of M?n, offer s;nrfelf to us in His Son ]ESyS CHRIST, and is toe found' by us. To feck hirft iheh,' is ^xedly to de¬ign tire attainment oft hat i'.fin it; Go . , d todueci;jr whole Courte’thitherward, a.-a diirg.mt’y to appJ^pr felves to walk in rhofe vf/T/s, which arc prefci it cdr leading Men to the Poflcflio/; of it.B , T,5To TruU in GOD.To Truft in GOD is, acknowledging eur o lslweaknefs, and being apprehenfivc of ,thev innun|irable Cafualities, Hazards, and Snares to which j|arc expofed in this Life ; and being fenfible of iinfufficiency of all things to help and nphold us,«}uiet our Minds in the expeftation of Help from G.Cwho is of inSnite Power and Gpodnels, and whSaithfulneis never fails.Wait on the LORD.We are apt t® be haftie and" impatient wheftGood we ftand in need of, and Defire is delayed : I•we (hould ( trufting unto the Gondnefs, Power sWifdom, and Faithfulnefi of G01>, wh'ch never faiffcfign eur felves to him, and hope ftill in him., re!*ing the Grant of what we need and defire to IGoodwill and Pleafure, and to impart it to us, wfaad in what manner it feems be ft to him.TV hear the Voite of GOD.GOD fpeak»- to Man, and reprefents to himarue Good, and the way to it, he calls on him a*xhorts him ; ha commands him to take the Coujrr.efcribcd.to. him. This Voice we then hear,, whw* advert to it, and retheirag our .minds fromThoughtsof other things, weduely confider what;LORD' faith, and judging his Counfel and Commagood, and Obedience to it abfolutely necefiary for-w® «9»ply ^yith it .and obey it,To Migni/ie GOD.JTo Magnifie GOD, is to acknowledge ins Supremeilory and Excellency, and to afcribe to him thefe™finite Perfeftions, which ihine forth to us in his/ord and Works; and to# have a hifeh Efteem ofin, and to confider him as infinitely Exalted above11 the moft perfeQ Betings, and by Word and Deedt expiefs this our Senfe of him, that othets may havedue Efteem and Regard for him.1 To fet GOD before #/.I Moll of Min never think on GOD-; GOD is noti all their Thoughts, He is not at any time beforeneir Eyes : But fuch as are Pious have fuch a Senfef GOD funk in their Minds, and find the remem*urance of GOD fo needful for the Comfort, Support,bnd conduft of their Lives, that they endeavour at alllimes, in all places, in all the different Conditionsi f their Lives, and in all their Affairs, and confidertdm as prefcnt*.To Drm neur to GOD«A conftant Courfe of humble Obedience 6o theLaws of GOD, diTpofes us for approaching to him*Iwhich we then do;when turning off our Souls from alljinf^riour things, vvc apply the Power* thereof unto1 am continually with Thee.^MoH: Men arc fo inrang’ed with Thoughts and Caof this Life, tha-t they never think on GOD. Si: ;as are-pious, tt’fo they tnuft bs fometimes with tWofhJ fhinking on it, and applying themfelves to 1yet LtoD is'tneir Dwelling-pbca. They retire the ,iViv'es from it, fo much as their Condition and Stati *•in the World will well allow, and withdrawing theFeives from it come onto GOD. Such as are more p;ife& do converfe with the World, and with prefeThings with,* great deal of Referve : Their Sojfiill bending towards GOD ; fo that while they <minding their worldy Affairs, GOD is not altogethfhut out of their minds,but they are in a fortcontint% with him-To Fear GOD.Thow, even Thou are to be feared, and who maJtand in Thy fight, if once Thou be angry ? Bcfid (3that Reverence and awful Regard, which, the mo vperfeQ: Crcattfres, even the Angels and Spirits of ju ,Met! nude perTeft, "being apprehenlive of the glpriot iand Infinite Ferfeftioas of GOD, have for the Divin i,Mijefne', we p>cr Mortals br ig fo frail, weak an ..torrhpt, and fo being ?ni IT-szard to be induced to fiagainft him, and provoke him to anger and difpleafiWus, have reafon to fear on the account ahis infinite Purity and Holinefs, his Power and Joftice, and :o be apprehenlive of lofing his Favour am t3w>vih:gkindnefs, which is valuable above all things*Mf Heart is Fixed,irhe Soul is, continually diTquieted, to/Tcd and agi«»«d through the varitty of DiCurbing Thoughts and[fions tili it come to fettle oh its true Centre •, wherebecomes fixed and immoveable; nothing being able, make fuch impreflions on it, as to fliake and un-Itleic.Return unto thy Reft) Q my Soul,} is cur 'DvceUingHlace.ioul finds no Reft any where but in GQDjh accefs, and conftders himfelf as neverut when there ; whenfoever his mind i&t9 the things of thi? Life, and he is in-ilous Soul is by any means taken off fromReft, it is in Trouble and Difquier, andnor quiet, but in going thither again;■felf clogged, and being fenfible of itsna&ivity, roiifes and ftires up it felf to(angledtangled with other Cares, hf looks on himfelf as Jbroad from the place of its Abode, where it is be |for him to be : There he confiders bimfelf as wd {and moft at cafe,he iiaftens to return hither,md weari-iAbroad.Tke Secret Place rfthe Aloft High*There is a Place, whither pious Souls may as ofrc1as they will retire themfelves, where they mayfiniPeace, I2sfe and Reft, and amfpeakable Solace amid .all their Troubles in the World : This Place i; t! i:S.ecret of his Prefence ; a Secret Place, where thtmay be hid, where, when they are, no Hand can reac ithem, which Lurking-place, no other betides then :felves can find*Com to Me*They come to JESUS, who1 ( being fenfible of theSin and Mifery, and finding that they cannot by at1Means fave alive their own Souls, and knowing by tReport of the Gofpel fhai He is able to fave to the v i:tmoft all, who come unxo-GQD By Him ) do ( t 'Jinquilhing the Patty to which formerly they adhere ! «and forfaking the corrupf courfes of the World ) L 'themfelves under the Banner of J&SUS, nod »<hti Take upm them, and ftlltw him.To heef His Commandments.To keepGOO's Commandments,is to lay them upour Minds. & to hide b in in our Hearts, and to p:Cervc them Ctiil w our light,& View. It is not onlyI w them ; but to love, $e««. aud to have them ftill,fcnt with us: The cares and Thoughts of thisc and other Studies and Labours fteal them out ofI Sight and View, and our corrupt Inclinations and(lions, prevail fe much with us, that we of enftraym them V To keep them then is to Jtnow, remembe?,:c and obey them.Open thj Month wide.tvfoll of the Defires of Men have for their ObjtQtlie things : They feek for no more but Wealth,nour and F'eafure, which as they are fmall things innffelres can be ef little ufe to them. GOD would, e us to afft 8:> love and defire greater and betterings,and to dilate our Soulsthat they may be capabl?eceiviog the greateft Good,To IVal^ 'Uprightly.irnce the great End & Defigii of a Chriftian-fhouldbe■jreach eternal Life and BldTednefs in GOD, and to: life and Honour him; that man ( that in the whole• I rfe of his Life looks ftraight thitherward, and is not ■| fled by any means to turn off from the pnrfuit ofMfe, and to. grafp at other things, and to turn ajide toi ioked Paths,,and doth conftantly and clofsly purfoefife Ends ) fincere and walks uprightly. He thatfi.fiders GOD as his only Good, and loves him above| and purfues that one Thing, to pleafe, fcrve, andliiujur him, »ad eujoy him, walks uprighly.ISaf. 4*. iq. Thus faith the LORD thytfcc Holy OntfoflfraeL I sni the LORD thy. which te.icheth thee to profit, w-hich leadcth ’ty rhc Way that theuihouldeft go, &s.Deut. 61 y. Thou fhall late the LORD thy Gwith.all tbyH^art, with :stll thy Soul, and with allMight 6. Thefe Words, which 1 command theeday, (hall be in thy Heart. 7 And thou fliall ttthem diligently unto thy Childrep, and ftiall tallfthem, when thoti fitteft in thy houfe, when twalked by the way, and when thoO licft ^own,When,thou rifeft up.,nTo l^Jeditate on the Law of GOD, is to beftowcare and thou|hts iij itarching our it‘ true fenfemeaning; and when we have found ir.to ftay our mi |upon it,, rill we‘have funk it deep there, and to hwritten it, as it were in our hearts, and not only'but to think dill upon it, till.it hav its due efflftoperation, and accordjng .to the nature of thingsvealed, till eachpatt have contributed to the coning of the temper of out minds,and to the reformof our Lives, to the repairing of the Image of G?ih us.F I N I S.