PHILOSOPHICALANDScriptural proofs;THATBRUTES HAVE SOULSAS WELL AS MEN,DEDUCED FROM THEANCIENT THEOLOGY DOWN TO MOSES,■WITHHIS GENEALOGY AND THEOLOGYILLUSTRATED.CREED Or THE SADDCCEES,ANDTHE PRIMITIVE IDEA OF DEVILS,ANGELS, &c. DERIVED FROMTHE BABYLONIANS.Deus est anima brularum.“ The creature itself also shall be delivered from thebondage of corruption ino the glorious liberty of theSons of God.” rom. 2j.PERTH!»Printed by Crerar and Son.Price Twopence.PHILOSOPHICALANDSCRIPTURAL PROOFSTHATBRUTES HAVE SOULSAS WELL AS MEN.J 3The Reverend Mr. Thompson, Preacher of thisCity, in a Sermon from Romans, 8th chap. 22nd.i verse, supported the immortality of the Sou/s of| Brutes, without, however, going fully into thet merits of the subject. The question thus started,I Mr. Todd, Druggist, a young man of some abil-i ity, gave a Lecture on the opposite and presentil orthodox dogma, that Brutes have no Souls.0 This Lecture brought an overflowing house, to1 speak Theatrically, so much so that hundreds1 went away without admission ; and would haveI come off with greater eclat, it is said, had he notgone out of his way in search of foolish, wittv4cisms and uncharitable epithets.—All dogmasought to be freely and temperately discussed,from which truth has nothing to fear, and thepeople every thing to gain relative to know¬ledge ; for it must be admitted, that what is heldas orthodox now may not be held as such fiftyyears hence. It will not be expected by thereader that a tradesman who is obliged to laboursix days in the week and has only one for hisemployment, can spare time to enquire into thesubject equal to the Clergy, who have six daysin the week for their own employment, (gossip¬ing) and only one little day to labour. They arethe lillies of the valley, *• they toil not, neitherdo they spin !!! It will therefore be the princi¬pal care of the writer to avoid prolixity,—togive much information in few words, and shew¬ing distinctly and clearly, from both ancient andmodern Philosophers, as well as the Scriptures,that the argument which establishes the Soul inMan, also proves not only the Soul in Brutes, butin all animated beings." ’Tls surely GodWhose unremitting energy pervades,Adjusts, sustains, and agitates the whole.He ceaseless works alone: and yet aloneSeems not to wort:: with such perfection fram’dIs this complex stupendous state of things,”5The opinions of the Ancients relative to theThe Ancients considered the Sun as the brainof the Universe, and that it is from analogy thatthe human skull is round like that planet, theseat of intelligence. They always took the word“ Soul" in a general sense, the same as Jupiter>or the primitive combinations that composed theUniverse.—The proper name of Jupiter is Tou-piter—Existence,—the Soul or heart of theWorld,—the Sun. Plutarch says, the Egyp¬tians call the east the face, the north the right-side, and the south the left-side of the world,because there the heart is placed. The Ancientstherefore considered the world, with all the ani¬mated beings, See. thereon as God, eternally atwork, composing and decomposing, causing aperpetual resurrection. They divided the greatWhole into two principles—a good and a bad ;the one always undoing what the other had done.1“ The sacred seer, with scientific truth,In Grecian temples taught the attentive youth,With ceaseless change how restless atoms pass1'rom life to life, a transmigrating mass;Whence drew the enlighten’d sage the moral plan,That man should ever be the friend of man,Should eye with tenderness all living forms,His brother emmets, and his sister worms!”Soul.These principles were afterwards personified,and known to the Ancients by the names ofOr amaze and Arumanes ; and to the Modernsby Gad and Devil. Hence, all mankind areManichees, believing in the doctrine of twoprinciples, which fully elucidates the dogma ofour Devil, and his “ going about like a roaringlion, seeking whom he may devour,”—i. e. des¬troying the works of the Good principle.Sufficient has now been said to prove, that theAncients considered Man as indivisible; and thescientific Priestly held it as pure doctrine, thatthe soul was conceived with the body—growswith the body—dies with the body—and cannotrise but with the body—both, he believed, wouldrise together—the soul being “ part or parcel”of the body, as Judge Best would say. All theEastern nations apply to the Soul, the same wordthey use to express Life—and after their exampletire Romans understood the word anima, to sig¬nify the life of animals in genera!. The Greekscalled the breath the Soul, and that opinion con¬tinued till the time of Pythagorous, the descipleof Pcrecyde's. Again the Romans translated theword breath by spiritus,—the French, esprithence the word spirit or soul found amongst allmodern nations. Indeed, the great Locke sel¬dom makes use of the word Soul; and when hedoes, it only stands for intellect or mind, which7all Brutes possess as well as Man—and, in manycases, in a superior degree, there being neithervisionaries nor idiots found among them; it isman alone that possess these inestimable quali¬ties. Therefore, again, I say, the argument thatproves a Soul in Man, also proves the Soul ofBrutes, Birds, Reptiles, See.Those who insist that God gives us a Soul orBeing independant of, and distinct from the mindor intellect, are surely not aware that blasphemymust be the consequence of such an hypothesis.To shew this, let us suppose a case in point.—Ifwhen an act of adultery or incest is consummated,would it not be making the Deity a party to theCrime, by thus confering a soul on this work ofiniquity ? Away with such delusion! Nothingbut pride and ignorance on the part of the peo¬ple, and riches and power on the part of thepriesthood, could have propogated such an in¬consistent doctrine.“ Your Rearon s—let it not be oversway’dRy tyrannous threats to force you into faith’Gainst all external sense and inward feeling iThink and indure,—and form an inward worldIn your own bosom—where the outward fails;So shall you nearer be the spiritualNature, and war triumphant with your own.”The primitive Jews made no difference betweenthe Soul and Body, declaring that “Men andBrutes went all to one place,” and that “ therewas no distinction.” And in order to removeevery doubt respecting the opinions of Mosesbeing indentified with those Of the heathen theo¬logians,—we give the following passage from thelearned Geographer and Philosopher Strabo :“ Moses, who was ope of the Egyptian priests, taughthis followers, that it was an egregious error to repre¬sent the Deity under the form of animals, as theEgyptians did, or in the shape of man, as was thepractise of the Greeks and Africans. That alone is.the Deity, said he, which constitutes heaven, earth,and every living thing ; that which we call the ivorlJ,the sum of all things, naturt; and no reasonable personwill think of representing’ such a being by the imageof any one of the objects around us. It is for this rea¬son, that, rejecting every species of images or idols,Moses wished the Deity to be worshipped withoutemblems, and according to his proper nature; he ac¬cordingly ordered a temple worthy of him to be erect¬ed, &c.” Goografh, Ha.16.fi. 1104.The theology of Moses has, been, different in no re¬spect from that of his followers, that is to say, fromthat of the Stoics and Epicureans, who consider theDeity as the soul of the world. This philosophy ap¬pears to have taken birth, or to have been disseminatedwhen Abraham came into Egypt (200 years beforeMoses,) since he quitted his system of idols for thatof the God Yahouh; so that we may place its pro-9mulgation about the seventeenth or eighteenth centuryJjefore Christ.“ To me be Nature’s volume broad display’d;And to pet use its all instructing page, ‘My whole delight.”By a careful perusal of the Scriptures of theOld Testament, (but there are few that read,and fewer that consider what they do read) andconsulting the learned and candid Philo; theymay also, if their patience allow them, cast theireyes over a volume or two of the tedious and par¬tial Josephus,—from these"it will appear evident,that the Jews knew nothing of the Soul fartherthan as the intellect or mind, till their returnfrom Babylon. It was there they imbibed theidea of aerial beings. The Babylonians havingpersonified the names of their months into beingsor angels with wings at their backs, in imitationof the twelve Decans of the Egyptians, who are ^ . ..said to have created the World in twelve months; ' . > 'this furnished the Jews with an addition to theirtheology, and no doubt they were eager not tolose the main chance of carrying away a few ofthose gentry, like a bundle of old clothes in a bag ■'(and of the same value too, we may suppose,)dressing them out afterwards, Jews a-la-mode,only retaining their names, that they might notbe thought ungrateful to their Mamas and Papas»* * y*'.’for their former kindness, which are Gabriel,Michael, Yar, Nisan,&c.The Jews began now to divide themselves intotwo sects, the Saddncees and Pharisees, the for¬mer adhering to the ancient theology, and be¬lieving only in the five books of Moses, denyingthe being of angels and spirits, the immortalityof the soul, and the resurrection of the body; andthe latter following the new theology, which in¬creased but little until the days of Plato, thedivine visionary, who first founded the doctrineof the Trinity, known by the epithets of Dtmi-ourgos, the Logos, and the Spirit; these arebeautifully illustrated by Macrobius, from whomwe have taken the following quotation :—The epithet/»7er, or father, Soul cf the world, havingbeen applied to the demi ourgos of Plato, gave rise toau ambiguity which caused an enquiry to be maderespecting the son of this father. In the opinion ofthe philosophers the son was understanding, Kons andLogos, from which the Latins made their Verbum.And thus we clearly perceive the origin to the eternalfather and of the Verbum his son, proceeding from him(Mens ex Deo nata, says Macrobiusy: the anima orspirit us mundi was the Holy Ghost; and it is for thisreason that Manes, Basilidcs, Valentinius, and otherpretended heretics of the first age, who traced thingsto their source, said, that God the Father was thesupreme inaccessible light (th:t of the heaven, the11priirrum mobk,ox the aplancs); the Son the secondarylight resident in the sun, and the Holy Ghost the at¬mosphere of the earth (See Beauseb. Vol II p. 586) ihence, among the Syrians, the representation of theHoly Ghost by a dove, the bird of Venus Urania, thatis, of the air.Having now traced the various opinions of theancients down to Plato, relative to the Soul ingeneral, we will just give a view of what themoderns consider constitutes the Soul in Men,Brutes, Birds, Reptiles, &c. enjoyed by themrespectively in a greater or lesser degree, as theystand located in the great chain of Creation. Ifthen we shall compare this concatonaticn to theRoman Alphabet, dare we say, that, because Yand Z are the last in the list, they are not of equalimportance with A and B in ornamenting theLanguages,—surely not. Cogent proofs canbe shewn that men and all animated beings arederived from, and composed of Fluids or water.“ Water restrain’d gives birthTo grass and plants, and thickens into earth :Diffus’d it tises in a higher sphere,Dilates its drops, and softens into air:Those finer parts of air again aspire,Move into warmth, and brighten into fire:That fire once more, by denser air o’ercome,Ard downward forced, in earth’s capacious womb,> ,r<v- : •' • .. s12Alters in particles, is fire no more.But lies metallic dust, or pord’rous ore.”Water is composed of two Gajes, Oxy¬gen and Hydrogen, the most inflammable of allthe Gases. Oxygen not only supports combustionbut the vital principle of life, which correspondsin a remarkable degree with that beautiful pas¬sage in the first chapter of Genesis, second verse,.“ And the spirit of God moved upon the face ofthe waters.” This corroborates, in an essentialmanner, that all matter is the same, only differ¬ing in its various modifications. It is now prettyevident therefore, that the Soul is only a modifi¬cation of those more fine and subtile particlesfound in the Brain, the Seat of the nervous sy¬stem,—where they all unite,, each acting a partin the government of the Body, by their jointagent, the Mind or Soul; produced, nourished,and upheld by them Now, as all Brutes, &c.have bodies with brains thus organized, it followsthat they have minds or souls as well as man—equally extensive in proportion to the Link eachholds in Nature’s Chain.“ Hence, when a monarch or a mushroom dies,Awhile extinct the organic matter lies;But, as a few short hours or years revolve,Alchemic powers the changing mass disolve;Emerging matter from the grave returns,I'eels new desires, with new sensations burrs;f.13With youth’s first bloom a finer sense acquiris.And Loves and Pleasures fan the rising fir. s ”The experiment of pressing the brain with thefingers, after the skull had been opened by atrapan, had the effect of rendering the personinsensible to all sensation, or passing events ;—the Mind or Soul, in this case, is the same as inthat of a drowned person, not conscious of itsfpwn existence. This result I was assured of, bytt Medical gentleman of Aberdeen, who had oftenseen the experiment tried, in a conversation wehad on the phenomena ofthe mind, in its variousramifications. Still, however, to make a furtherillustration of what we have advanced, givethe following passage, quoted from the Worksof the learned Dr. Laurance, Professor of Ana¬tomy, in London:—“ The same kind of facts, the same reasoning, the.same sort of. evidence altogether, which shows diges -tiqn to be the function, of the alimentary canal, motionof the muscles, the various secretions of their respec¬tive glands, prove that sensation, perception, memory,judgement, reasoning, thought, in a word, all themanifestations called mental or intellectual, are theanimal functions of their appropriate organic apparatus;the central organ of the nervous system. The instru.ment of knowledge and reflection, the part by whichwe feel, perceive, judge, think, reason, the otgan ororgans connecting us with the external .world, andexecuting the moral and intellectual department inour economy, claim our first attention. In spite ofmetaphisieal subtility, of all the chimeras and fanciesabout immaterial agencies, ethetial fluids, and the like,and all the real or pretended alarms, so carefully con¬nected with this subject, the thuth that the pheno¬mena of mind are to be regarded, physiologically,merely as the functions of the organic apparatus con¬tained in the head, is proved by such overwhelmingevidence, that Physiologists and Zoologists have beenled, almost in spite of themselves, to show their be.lief in it, by the great attention they have paid to thispart.”This, to every reasonable mind, we would beled to think, should be conclusive in proving, asfar as experiments, supported by reason, canprove, our hypothesis, that Brutes have all therequisites that form the Soul as well as Men, inthe scale of gradation, from the Great Creatorof the Universe to the least Animaculabut wemust not neglect this opportunity to inform thereader, that the learned Professor, did not, inthus giving to the world the result of his Anato¬mical experiments, meet with that reward ofgenerous approbation which he had a right toexpect, from his researches in the cause ofTRUTH. No! he, like the learned and in¬genious Galileo, was dragged before the Inqui¬sition of the Vice Society, and there had eitherto renounce his reason and the opinions he wasnecessiated to adopt, arising from conviction, or15lose the Professor’s chair.—He kept the chair*knowing well, thatt: a bird in the hand is worthtwo in the bush but so worded his re.canta;tion, that nothing, in reality, was given up—thesame was the case with Ga’i'eo. The crime ofGalileo was, his applying geometry to the doc¬trine of motion, and making the evidence of theCopernican system more sensible, viz.—that theSun is the centre of the World, and immoveable,and that the Earth moves even with a diurnalmotion,—which system is now held as orthodoxover the enlightened world.“ Serene philosophy,Effusive source of evidence and truth ?Without thee, what were urenlighten’d man ?A savage roaming through the woods and wilds,Rough clad, devoid of every finer artAnd elegance of life.”Having now gone through the ancient andmodern Philosophers, whose opinions all tendto show that, the same demonstrable truthswhich point out the Soul in Man, establishesthe Souls of Brutes, &c.For the further proof that Brutes have Souls,and are not only an emanation from the Deity,but under his peculiar care, just as much as Man,we will apply to the Scriptures, as a winder upof the subject.16Solomon seems to have been of our opinion,and could not see the differance between theSou’s of Men and Brutes.Ecd iii l!1. For that which befalleth the sons ofn.en befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them :as the one dicth, so dieth the other; yea they have allone breath; so that a man hath no pre-eminenceabove a beast. All go unto one place, all are of thedust, and all turn to dust again.Such doctrines had, no doubt, been the talk ofthe learned in Solomon’s time as well as now,—and he very properly comes to the point:Ecd. iii. 2l. Who knoweth the spirit of man thatgoeth upward, and the spirit of beast that goethdownward to the earth ?The vulgar error of Souls going up and downstill holds its ground. The centripetal and cen¬trifugal forces, to and from a centre, whichJ maintain the Planets in their orbits, may explain■* the idea of the Righteous going up to Heaven,and the Wicked down to Hell,—the ofthe earth.That the Apostle Paul was firmly in the beliefthat Brutes would share in the gin hut resurrec¬tion, read the 8th chap, of Romans, beginningat the 2 9th verse.FINIS.