r ifdnef Clinker’s9On the Villame}- of tie Old Women.,amUae Pride of tie fomgtiSHEWINGonngimen and young women how to avoid thebuying of Janet Juniper’s sti’nVing butter, w hichwill have a rotten rift on their stomach, as longas they live. t ,Taken In Shert Hind, by'Humphrey ClinThe Clashing Wives' Clerk.JANET CLINKER'SORATION.HE madness of theunmuizied age has di iveime to mountains of thought and a continue*l ;ation ; it is enough to make an auld wiferflred-wood, and drive a body beyond the baiter*end of ill-nature, to see what I see, and hear whatI hear; therefore the hinges of my anger are brokeand the hands of my good-nature are burst in twothe door of civility is laid quite open, plain spee<|and mild admonition is of none effect; nothingmust be tised now but thunderbolts of reproachltartly trimmed in a tantalizing style, roughly redratip and manufactured through an old matron!mouth, who is indeed but frail in the teeth, bunwill squeeze surprisingly with her auld gums, unttil her very chaft blades crack in the crushing ^your vice. 1I shall branch out my discourse into four headFirst, What I have seen, and been witness to#.Secondly, What I now see, and am witness to.Thirdly,. What I have heard, do hear, and cajnot help; I mean, the difference between old wejnlrri and the youSg ; and,3Fourthly, Concluding with an advice to youngI men and young women, how to avoid the buyingkrf Janet Juniper’s stinking butter,* which willhave a rotten rift on their stomach, as long asthey live.1. The first thing then I see and observe, is,That a wheen daft, giddy-headed, cock-nosed,(juniper-nebbed mothers, bring up a wheen'sky-iracket dancing daughters, a’ bred up to te ladies,without so much as the breadth of their loof of(land ! It’s an admiration to pie, where the lairdsare a’ to come frae, that’s to be coupled to them !I Work ! na, na, my bairn must not work, she’s tobe .a lady ; they ca’ her Miss. I must have herears bored, says old mumps, the mother. Thusthe poor pet is brought up like a motherless lamb,or a parrot in a cage; they learn nothing, but toprick and sew, and fling their feet when the fid¬dle plays ; so they become a parcel of yellow-facedfemale tailors, very unequal matches for country¬men } just Flanders babies, brought up in a box,and must be. carried in a basket; knows nothingbut pinching poverty, hunger, and pride ; can nei¬ther milk kye, muck a byre, card, spin, nor yetkeep a cow from a corn-rigg. The most of suchHare as blind penny-worths, as buying pigs in pockg, /md ought only to be matched with tacket-makers,tree-trimmers, and raale-taylors, that they may bemalt and female agreeable in Hade, since theirA nickname to the wife’s ckuigHtfr that nowill marry, because stuffed fall of laziness, salt:onceit, and slinking pride ; or, if she be in;.tried, .'sire•vill lie like stink.ng butter ari his stoauich as long asire lives.4piper-r»ced fingers are not forfiar ! kbour; yclthey might also pass on a pinch fdV a black sutor’lwife, for llie stitching of white seams room! thasinouth of a lady’s shoe $ or with barbers or baker!they' might be buckled, because of their muslit*nouth and pinchbeck speeches , when barm iscant, they can blow up their bread with failwinds, and when the razor is rough, can tritjtheir chalts.wiUt a fair tale, oil their }>eruke wifilier white lips and powder the bcanx’s pow witla French puff. They are well Verg'd in all thlscience'of flattery, musical tunes, hornpipei#and country-dances, though perfect in .none httiilecl of Garmnon.Yet these are they the fic’de farmer fixes hijfancy upon, a bundle of clfKils, a skeleton Abones ; Maggy and the mutch, like twa fir stickand a pickle tow, neither for his plate, nor his pcn|rery improper plenishing, neither for his profiti>ior her pleasure,ffo plout her hands thro’hawkey*caff-cog, is a hateful hardship for mamy’spet, amwill hack n’ her hands. All this have I seen an*h^ald^ and been witness tot but my pen being!goose quill, cannot expose their names nor pla<Jjof abode, but warns the working men out of theway.S. I see another sort, who can work, apd mailwork till they be married, and become mistreithemselves ;J but as the husband receives therltheir thrift leaves them ; before that they wroug!as for a wa^er, and they span as for a premiumbusked as for a brag, scoured their din skin asiwauker does worsted blankets ; kept as mini jthe mouth as a minister’s wife, comely as Diuni•haste as Susanna, yet the whole of their toil iihc trimming *>f their rigging, tho’ their hulli be'verlasting in a leaking condition ; their backs andtheir bellies are boxed about with the fins of a bigBsb, six petticoat?, a gown and apron, besidesn side sark down to the ankle bohes !—-Ah ! whatmonstrous rags are here 1 what a .cloth is consum¬ed for covering one pair of buttocks1! I leave it tothe judgment of any ten tailors in town, if thirtyBjfJr of men’s breeches may not be cut from a littletbove the easing of Bessy’s bum ; and this makesliei> a motherly woman, as stately a woman as everfir&te to market or mill. But when she’s married,i|he turns a madam ; her -mistress did not ttfbrk|nuch, and why should she ? Her mother ay said■ho wad be a la<ly, but could never, tell where hermauds lay ; but when money is all spent* creditIprokcn, and conduct out of keeping, a wliecnjpabiing bubly bairns’cfymg, piece, rninny, porritch,Jilninny, the witless wanton waster is (fs at her wit’smd. Work now or want, and do not say thatbe world has waur’d you ; but lofty noddle, yourpddy-hcaded mother, has led you astiay, by learn-ag you to be a lady, before you was fit to bo aervaot-lass, by teaching you laziness instead oflard inbfeur; by giving you such a higlfj conceitf yourself, that nobody thinks any thing of youtow, and you may judge yourself to be one ofhose that wise people call little-worth. But afterli we have said, when you begin the warkl again,>e perfectly r jeh, before you be gentle; work- Ixartfar what you gain, and you’ll ken better how to[Hide it, for pride is an imperfect fortune, “and-'a?udicrous life will not last long.■ Another sort I see, who has got more silverban sense, move gold than 0.\d nature, more6muslins and means than good manners ; thoughsack can hold their silver, six houses and a hqcannot contain their ambitious desires. Fortumtus’wonderful purse would fail in fetching in ti;fourth part of their worldly wants, and the chiclren imitate their mothers, chattering like hungicranes, crying still, 41 want, I want,’ ever era’ing, wilfully wasting, till all be brought to a doliful dish of desolation, and with cleanness of teetla full breast, an empty belly, big pockets witho,pence, pinching penury, perfect poverty, drouthunger, want of money and friends both, old-agdim eyes, feeble joints, without shoes or clothe;the real fruits of a bad marriage, which briiijtin u^htless fops-to both faith and repentence :one day.3. Another thing I see, hear, and cannot helis the breeding of bairns, and bringing them itlike bull-stirks; they gi’ethem waulth of meat, bno manners ; but when 1 was a bairn, if 1 did nbend obedience, l ken mysel what 1 got, whhlearned me what to gie mine; if they had tellme, tots, or pruse no, I laid them o’er my kneand I cam crack for crack o’er their hurdies, Ifa knock bleaching a barn-web, till the red warstood on their hips; this brought obedience inmy house, and banished dods and ill-nature oat the door ; I dang the did out o’ them, ai-dadded them lik« a wet disl^clout, till they d■my bidding; but now the bairns are brought I| ‘ So spit fire in their mither’s face, and cast dirttheir auld daddies. How can they be good, w’ -never saw a sample of it; or reverence old n<'who practised no precepts in their youth ? Hi'•can they love thdl parents, who gave them bla - ■■ - ■ • " — A7ilson instead of good principles ; who shewedicm no good, and taught them no duties ? Nolarvel, such children despise old age, and rever-!lnce their parents as an old horse does his father,j 4. The last prevailing evil which I see, all mennear, but hone strive to help, women now disdainjp ride on pads, as of old, to be hobbled on ajorse’s hurdies, but must be hurled behind thej'id, safely seated in a leathern conveniency, and! lere they fly swiftly as in the chariot of Amina-ab. They will not speak the language of theiralive country, but must have southern cants, re-nfcd raw sugar through London mills.Another grievance I sec of the female offenders,cannot omit, which attracts man’s fancy, andthe pause of his fall, J mean fighting, flyting,-natured wives, wha wants to wear the bfeeks:idflyghters, who have got a little of the means ofi'lammon, more silver than sense, more gold thanood nature, haughtiness for humility, value them-dves as a treaiure incomprehensible, their headsjnd hearts of Ophir gold, their hips of silver, andreir whole body as set about rfvit*. t. 'ecious stones !md what is she after all, but a pool' penny-worth)r a poor roan; she must have fine dresses, ane house, fine teas, and what not, and thinks heroor penny will never be at an end.fBut when I Janet was a Janet, and had theliigment of my own house, my husband wasnriee happy; 1 newer held hnji down j he wasJove me day and night; I sat late andros* eaib-ept a full house and ronf»h J'--’mmmm wvit]i a ^teasanable Heat, am!, went -ta lw?, gcxj^jainv^ Jfynffj&t|? stark-lvye and Kmdneswe wixvuglit tor riGlies, bated pride, and lore!peace { he died •vi'itli a good «^e, and I let'ypVeu.I live. Come, help yourselves, a’f you hiik;|:at livery yd^r trlcnds wdl, like yon tliq*bctteivshoulders, and thick about the haunches, that habeeji ^ng servant in a’e house, thpijgh twice otlinpe-^way'^hd ay feed' back j thait-s well Uked t>the bairns, and the Ivyirns’ mithcf,’ thpiV nag wacahkard'tQ nqr kicks the tadfy-dogs amanjlher feet^,that \vaef let a’ brute beast;; live, and kinto'bairna}.;ror‘them that daijts young bairns, wihe kind to auId folks if tljey'had them.Anti nny fale-hi^rted v-bolusoi'-.o, his?U’ tbswants to haitt f a good husband, let her never tuJa widow's ae son, for if the wisely gates in tiwarld will tie.in him,'for want,of.a father tq/teaohim manly,actions j but go tabu y^br chaiice, a||h''<o'r <i,c'd, ehaunter ne';. -- .. m , £ odd r.o rn, «*ays ua-.., ' • J?r ‘i