SEVEN FAVOURITESONGS.Blink bonniely, thou E’ening Star.The Despairing Goatherd.See the Moon o’er cloudless Jura.I gaed a waefu’ gate yestreen.The Maid of Arundel.Sweet Evening Bells.Life let us cherish.tT9*r;od oifliipd uii Ifiw vfi_ • . i *NE IVl ON-STE WAnr ;Printed for the Booksellers, byJ. M‘NAIRN.TimuoYAi vivivaa;> V! a 8:BLINK KONNIELV, THOU E'ENING STARihif i( i 'm’"VBlink lionuiely, thou e’ening Star, ,yTltou teH’st me o’ my tryst vestrton,But sweeter were the blinks o’ lore,That sparkled in twa smiling e’en,.r'shsrfo gtj Jt>i olidBeside the widely wimpling burn,Reflecting back thy golden beam,I woo’d my faithful Emma’s heart,Hope long had nurs’d the flattering dream.Blink bonniely thou E’ening Star,Thou tell’st me o’ my tryst yestreen,The witness of our faithful vows,Upon the sedgy banks sae green.l.ove ay wilt twine its bonnie bower,A fragrant bower for ever green,nd days'o’love and saft 'delightAndWillteH me o‘ n:y tryst yeslretfn. ^The fickle maid is chang’d,. 5^ - i •Regardless of her vow.™ „ . . UIhe fleetmgjoys ofl*ve; &e.-lilFE LET L;S CHERISH.Life let us cherish while yet the taper glows,,And the fresh flow’ret pluck ’ere it close,Why are we fond of toil and cai e ?Why choose the rankling thorn to wear?And heedless by the lily stray,Which blossoms -in our way.jhcovj! iiv? f.na •se-.vod v;; mvi ssSWhen clouds obscure th^ atmQsj>hgre,And forked lightenings rend the air,The sun resumes his silver crest,And smiles adown the west: j }.:ol! .’.'A•u/ub •#*/:> ihiw siowt S eit bnAThe genial seasons soon are o’e r, ,/ •' b.The let us, e’er we quit this shore,■ >»»Tc Bn iContentment seek, itis o.ur zesV.Tlie sunsliine of the bueast.(pTVBBvT mB tswod '(d 57oi ea tejjjou'J udi; B3:iw toils’fol pi tfA4Soft dying on the breezy swell,That fans the shades of Arundel., »n oinSEE THE MOON O’ER CLOUDLESS JURA.See the moon o’er cloudless JuraShining in tlie lake below;See the distant mountain toweringLike a pyramid of snow.Scenes of grandeur—scenes of childhood—Scenes so dear to lore aud me!Let us rove by bower and wildwood;. . ... ‘j .J., : ■ . •, n • • .7All is lovelier when with thee.Diiii imfn a^nrflSjirgrl 1;. AOn Leman’s breast the winds are sighing,All is silent in the grove,And the flowers with dew drops glistening,Sparkle like the eye of love.Night so calm, so clear and cloudless ;Blessed night to lore and me 1Let us rove by bower and fountain.All is lovelier when with thee.&THE DESPAIRING GOATHERD:»i.OTUfc 9tlt 10 ;s1 OOTTThe fleeting joys of loveBut one sbort moment last;In pains do constant prove,Till life’s.list moment’s past. ,7rii ••;<j 'inodin imi? •lewndEor Sylvia, cruel fair!The pride of all the vale#I’ve left my goats and kids,To stray o’er hill and dale rBut she, ungrateful maid !Heeds not thy tender sighs;My-proffer’d love she scorns,And to another flies.The fleeting joys of love, &c..IniiiimA io e'ibadii silt him/.The maiden-oft’ would vowfili.Her flame should ardent burn,While this pure stream should flow-.My fondness she’d return;My passion’s still the same,.The water still does flow •sTHE MAID OF ARUNDEL,' ‘ n». i 11 1 * . *7 * I t / 1J L1 ii i C vIUXI’ou fairest of the fairest maids,In Arundel’s embowering shades,When beauty smiles in all her charms,And love’s-delighted bosom warms.With her { woo each- sylvan scene,Of fragrant bower and arbour green,While smiling hopes our cares-.dispel.We bless the shades of Arundel.hr:;) aisog ;lsi sv’IWhen twilight steak along the wojd,And wandeniug.sbephet'ds leav^ tlie fold,.To woo. the bow;er, the scented grcrye,Again my lp(ye}y Rosalie,With bounding .hqait I fly. to thee,Lpve’s dear. and fond delights, to tell.Amid the shades of Arundel.As wandering in the castle mound,Or moVlfig idilie festive round,I feel the power of love divine,Bright beaming in those eyes of thine.And sweeter fs thine artless tale,Than midnight song of Nightingale,Away wHti'evgry foil and care; 'And cease the rankling 'thorn to tvear,With manful hearts life’s conflict meet,Till death sounds the retreat.' .? j.na om/avi Taav/afill., .’fiiflos-1 Joa‘«a ^u nove iaowidI GAED A WAEFU' GATE YESTREEX;,•is iwfi* J«iii i-us ,fined ;• ». i<!I gaed a waefu’gate yestreen,A gate, I fear, I’ll dearly rue ;I gat my death frafe twa sweet ecu,Twa lovely eefrd’bonnie blue.’Twas not her' gulden singlets bright’, 'Her lips like roseg wat wi’ dew,Her heaving bosom lilv white,tRnog me J rfoilw od llr.v, oa hnAIt was her een sae bonny blue.HIc-1 11 , , -A , . ,one taiked she smiled, my heart she wiled,'' ■She Charmed my soul, I wistna how ;And aye the stound, the deadly wound,Cam frae her een sae bonnie blue.But spare to speak, and spare to speed,She’ll aiblins listen to wv vow:8%’Should she refuse, I'll lay nay deadTo her twa een sae bonnie blue.Vlb'.-'H ir.'lilno- ; i ■:/d fulnmn v.JeiiMi Vifi' ibhtios dJnob KiTSWEET EVENING BELLS.Sweet evening bells, sweet evening bells,Kow many a tale your music tells,Of youth and home, and that sweet time.When last I heard your soothing chime Ir Oiil vl'.'C'd) li'I (■:; I . !£% AThese joyous hours are past away,And many a heart that then was gay,Within the tomb now darkly dwells,And hears no more these evening bells.And so twill be when I am gone,xour evening chime will still ring oa,And other bards shall wake these delis,And sing your praise, sweet evening bells.i •’ 1 . ',lV(titow 0/ /hiiWtfs orfl ‘‘.yoM ainaod ec* Wo idrt bisfl iHu 'Li'.'i;'o.t hire ot eantje JuS■ :viii <*; r-irf»i{ i edS