AYR:Printed for the BooEf'' ^OF SCOT LA"R^Price Threebaifpencrf.- ptTHECOMPLETEbudget of Wit 3A SELECTIONorI LaugFmMe Stories?I CHOICE BON MOTS;Repartees, Anecdotes, §c.H*' -rjihTHECOMPLETEBUDGET OF WIT,A minister asking a lady in the neighbourhoodNorwich, whether she knew any thing of Christwas answered, Yes, Sir, I remember that I oncesahis picture.A London lady was on a visit to a friend in Edlburgh, at the time his Majesty made his first vitthere, who was at great pains to point out to her tthe delightful prospects of that romantic city t Tlstranger, assuming an air of consequence, generalanswered, “ ’Tis very well for a Scotch view !" 0»delightful evening, walking along Queen Streewhile the autumnal moon shone with an uncommelustre,—her friend could not help expressing her aimiration of the resplendent orb of night, when tlCockney drily remark’d, “ it is very well for a SectMoon!” _ . JTwo English gentlemen, some time ago, visits!the field of Bannockburn, so celebrated for the toti>defeat of the English army, by Robert the Bruclwith an army of iScotch heroes, not one fourth the!number:—A sensible countryman pointed out tlpositions of both armies, the stone where the Brucestandard was fixed during the battle,&c. Kighisatisfied with his attention, the gentlemen, on leajlfig him, pressed his acceptance of a crown piece £ .“ Na na/’said the honest man, returning th mone3!! “ keep your crown piece,— the English hne paulisj dear enough already for seeing the field of Bannock- ,li burn.”I In a party of ladies, on it being reported that aCaptain Silk had arrived in town, they exclaimed,r| with one exception, “ What a name for a soldier /”11 “ The fittest name in the world," rejoined a wittyri female, for Silk never can be Worsted!", Some time since, at one of our sea-ports, a nobleif naval commander, who is a strict disciplinarian, ac-ISsted a drunken sailor in the street, with *' Whatlip do you belong to ?” Jack, who was a dry feUtw, notwithstanding he was drunk, and had a veryccentric countenance answered with much sang-'oid, “ Don't know.’'11 What’s your captain’s name ?”Don't know." “ Do you know who I am ?” u No."Why I am commander in chief.” “ Then,” re¬lied he archly, “you have a d d good birth of,—that’s all I know !”Hugh Arnot happening to come into Mr. Creech’shop, in Edinburgh one day, when an old womanas finding fault with the printing and paper of alible she was about to purchase, looked over hernd said that “ both were good enough for thesub-i jeet."—“ O ye monster!” exclaimed the woman;i then turning round and observing his miserably mea-; gre figure, added, " And he’s an anatomy too !”A West Indian, who had a remarkablyj'/r/y nose,i having fallen asleep in his chair, a negro boy whowas in waiting, observed a musquitto hovering roundt. his face. Qi/nsAi eyed the insect very attentively;at last he saw him alight on his master’s nose, andimmediately fly off, Ah, d n your heart, exclaim¬ed the negro, Me d——n glad see you burn you/ool.Some differences lately occurred between a corpsof volunteers and their commandant.—The regimenwas ordered to appear before t!ie inspecting Genera),and the Colonel of course gave the word of command;* Attention 1’—Shoulder arms! Not a muscle not;a musket moved. The command was repeated in alouder voice ; the corps was still motionless. ThejjGeneral much surprised, Ifjckoned to a serjeant, and J-asked why the corps refused to act ? An’t plaiseYyoi * honour, says Pat, making the due obeisance, it 1'is belays the Colonel and the regiment are not onspaiking terms.During the high price of coals, a gentleman meet^ ,nig his coal merchant, inquired whether it was pro- ,tier to lay in a stock. The knight of the black dia- ,mond shook his head, observing, Coals are coals nowsir! To which his customer replied, I’m veryglad to hear it, for the last you sent me were allslates !A gentleman having occasion to call for MrJoseph G**#**n, writer, found him at home in hiswriting-chamber. He remarked the great heat ofthe apartment, and said, it was as hot as an ovenSo it ought, replied Mr. G. for ’tis here I make mybread. , j ,The late well known Sandy Wood, surgeon irEdinburgh, was walking through the streets of thh.city during the time of an illumination, when he ehserved a young rascal, not above twelve years ofaggbreaking every window he could reahh, with as mucljindustry' as if he had been doing the most commemilable act;. .1 in the world. Enraged at this mischievioUijdisposition, Sandy’ seized him by the collar, and aaked him,what he meant by thus destroying the hdnest people’s windows ? Why, it’s all for the goodof trade, replied the young urchin, I am a glazcnAll for the good of trade, ii it ? said Sandy, raisinghis cane, and braaking the boy's head, There, thenthat’s for the good of my trade,—I am a surgeon.Barrymore happening to come late to the theatre,and having no dress for his part, was driven to thelast moment, when to heighten his perplexity, thekey of his drawer was amissing. D——n it, said heI must have swallowed it. Never mind says JackBannister, coolly, If you have, it will serve to\\open your chest.Mr. Curran being retained against a young officer,iwho was indicted fora very gross assault, opened the|! cause in the following manner : My Lord, l am coun¬sel for the Crown ; and I am first to acquaint yourilLordship, that this soldier   Nay, Sir, says theitmilitary hero, I would have you know, sir, I am sinbofficer.—O sir, I beg your pardon, says the coun-fiselior, very drily; Why then, my Lord, to speakiimore correctly, this officer, U'ho is no soldier.Charles Fox, in a Westminster election, having‘applied to a shop-keeper for his vote and interest,he man produced a halter, with which he said heas ready to oblige him. Mr. Fox thanked him forns kindness, but said he would by no means depriveim of it, as he presumed it was a family apiece.An old bawd being carried before the late Justicejond, for keeping a disorderly h#use, strongly deni¬ed all that was charged against her., Housewife!t iOuscwife ! said the Justice, how have,you the as-iiirance to deny it? You do keep a baudy-house,and 1 will maintain it.—Will you ? replied the old)awd : the Lord bliss you ! 1 always took you to bea kind hearted gentleman.6Some time ago a member of Parliment appliedibe post-office, to know why some of his franks hat, been chargea. The answer was : We supposed si;they were not'of your writing. The hand is not lh«same. Why, not precisely the same, but the truth isI happened to be a little tipsy when I wrote them -Then sir, will you be so good in future as to writldfunic, when you make free.'A young'lady going into a barrack room at ForGeorge, saw an officer toasting a slice of bread o»the point of Iiis'Sword. On which she exclaimecSI think, Sir, you have got the staff' of life on the poinYof,death.Dean Jacksonpassing onemorning through Christ‘Church quadrangle, met some under graduates, winwalked along will’out capping you know who I am. N-o, siv. Ho\v long have yet been in College ?Eighdays, sir.— Oh, very well, said the Dean walkingaway, pupies don’t’ open their eyes till the ninth dayWhilst the immortal Garrick was one night perfarming the part of Hamlet, (a character in whiclthat inimitable actor displayed an exquisite knowledgi ibf nature) and when he was arrived at one of the mosEntering scenes in that tragedy—the audience almute attention,,—when even a pin might be heard fall. {ing to the ground—all at once, to the astonishmencf the spectators, Garrick was seen to burst out inta violent fit of laughter, and ran suddenly off tlistage ; In a moment all the players followed. Yhaudience, amazed at the strangeness of this conductsCast their'eyes around every corner of the housew hen they immediately discovered the cause of Garrick’s merriment. A jolly round faced butcher wa.seated in front of one of the high boxes, wiping h£ipald pate, from which the sweat' flowed in ttj streams !—his sagacious mastiffj no doubt eager to c■ joy, as well as his master, the admirable performancei iiofthe Prince of Tragedians, had placed his fore feeti,upon the front of the butcher’s box, and was lookingtjfeagerly down upon the stage, with his grate phiz dig¬nified by his master’s full-bottom'd wig 1 The audi¬ence found it impossible to restrain theirgravity atthisiiludicrous sight:—The loudest peals of laughter burstfrom the pit, the boxes, and the galleries; and it was ai great while ere the performers could again resumei the gravity necessary for performing a tragedy so^deeply interesting.Soon after Dr. Johnson's return from Scotland to. London, a Scottish lady, at whose house he was, as:j a compliment, ordered some hotch-potch for his din-Iner After the doctor had tasted it, she asked him.|if it was good?—To which he replied, ver)' good forfhogs /”—Then, pray, said the lady, let me help youtj to a little more.The clergyman of a village, a few miles south fromij Edinbu gh, (which is almost entirely surrounded by{colliers) being one day engaged in examining his|l parishioners on the principles of the Christian re’i-| gion, and finding them extremely deficient, in their!|i knowledge of these divine truths, felt it his duty to| display, in pretty strong terms, the punishment thatawaited the wicked in a future world ; observing,that they would be cast into a place of uttcr( dark¬ness, where there would be weeping, and wailing and'gnashing of teeth. Let them gnash that have teeth,cries an ojd woman from a corner of the church : furmy part, / have had none these thirty years.Donald M'Gregor, a notorious sheep Utter (alias8*t:ecp-$tsaler) in the north Highlands, being at laeovartaken by the grim tyrant of the human ractwas visited by the minister of the parish, whose appearance, however, was by no means agreeable tDonald. The holy man warmly exhorted the dyinHighlander to reflect upon the long and black catalogue of his sins, before it was too late, otherwise he|woo'd have a tremendous account to give at tgreat day of retribution, when all the crimes he haicommited in this world would appear in dreadful ar¬ray, as evidence of his guilt.—Gch ! sir, cries thedying man, and will a’ the sheeps, the cows and ilkathing Donald has helped hersell to be there. Un¬doubtedly replied the parson.—Then let ilka shentle-man tak’ her nain, and Donald will be an honest manGeorge the second being once at a masquerade,he observed Miss Chgdleigh in a habit which veryclosely bordered upon the naked ; ‘ My dear lady,’said the good-natured monarch, Suffer me to putvnj hand upon that soft bosom— Sire said she,give me your hand, and I will put it on a much sof¬ter place. She took his right hand, and put it uponhis own fore-head.R. Palmer meeting Lady Derby some time since,nod having acted with her for many years in thea¬tres, barnsy and stables, he thought it no vast pre¬sumption to ask her Ladyship how she did. TheCountess, raising her eye glass looked doubtful a fewmoments, and at last lisped out, ‘ Mr. Palmer, if Imistake not.' ‘ I am sorry to find you have lostyour qyes by star-gazing,’ said Bob, contemptuous¬ly, and walked on.Quin being one day in a coffee-house, saw a young-9:pcau enter, in an elegant negligee dress, quite lan-iljuid with the heat of' the day. ‘ Waiter 1’ said thefhflxcomb, in an affected faint voice, ‘ waiter 1 fetchi ne a dish of coffee, weak as water, and cool as aI tephyr !’ Quin, in a voice of thunder, immediatelyiiVociferated, ‘ Waiter, bring me a dish of coffee, hot• as h-11. and strong as d—m—n!’ The beau start¬ing, exclaimed,' “ Wajter, what is that gentleman’s(name?” Quin, in his usual tremendous tone,ex-Iclaimed, ‘ Waiter, pray what is that lady's name?’A clergyman chose for his text the followingwords : Which of you voill go up with me to Ra~moth-Gilead? Then pausing, he again and againrepeated the words, when a gallant tar started from(his peat, and looking round him with an eye of in-jdignation, he exclaimed, ‘will none of you go with; [the worthy gentleman? As for ray part, I go fortone!’The Laird of M‘Nab was writing to one of Isisfriends from an Edinburgh coffee-house, when a gen--jtleman of his acquaintance observed that he wasset-: ting at defiance the laws of orthography and gram¬mar. ‘ D—n your blood!” exclaimed the High¬land chieftain, “ how can a man write grammar mth. i a pen like this ?’A young woman of Dublin, apprehensive of some.. t unhappy effects from an illicit amour, which she had; for some time carried on with a Dutch sailor, men-iil tinned her situation to a friend who advised her toi| place her future offspring to her young master, asj being the richer man of the two. ‘ I was thinkingt of that,’ replied the fair one, ‘ but then you knowthe child will discover ail when it begins to speakDutch!'10About the year, thretty-sax, a company differed, |C1 Whether it was better for a man to hae sons or kdoughters ?” They cou’d na’gree, but disputed it ppro and con. At last, ane of them said to Graham r-of Kinross, (wha had na yoked wi’ them in the argu¬ment,) Laird, wliat’s your opinion?” Quo’ he, “I L,ha’e had three lads and three lassies: I watna whilk ,o’ them I liked best sae lang as they suckit theirmither ; but de’il hae my share o’ the callants whan ;they cam to suck their father.A tar having got into the pit of Drury-lane thea¬tre, recognised one of his messmates aloft, amongst .the gods : “ Pray, Jack, what did it cost you to get [intfl that d—n’d snug birth?” On being informed !rthat he gave only a shilling: “D—mme, this is ,,'qhie business! I gave five shillings to get stowed into ithis here hold.An Irishman, some years ago, attending the Uni- ■versity of Edinburgh, waited upon one of the most ,celebrated teachers of the German flute, desiring toknow on what terms he would give him a few lessons,the flute player informed him, that he generally scharged two guineas for the first month, and one \guinea for the second. Then by my soul, replied the ;Hibernian, “ I’ll come the second month !”A countryman sowing his ground, two smart fel-* ■ow s riding that way, one of them called to him withan insolent air, Well honest fellow, (said he) ’tisyour business to sow, but we reap the fruits of yourlabour.” To which the countryman replied, “ 'Tisvery likely you may for I am sowing hemp."A country fellow, just come up to London, andpeeping into every shop as he passed by, at last look¬ed into a scrivener’s; where seeing only one man sit- :ing at a desk, could net imagine what was sold there ;knd calling to the clerk, said, pray sir, what do youifreil ? Logerheads, cried the other. Do you so ?said the countryman;) truly, you have a special.rade then, for I see you have but one left.Two gentleman standing together, as a young ladypassed them, one of them said, there goes the hand-h somest woman I ever saw. She hearing turned backand observing him to be very ugly, answered, 1 wishjSir, I could, in return, say as much of you. Soyou may Madam, {says he) and lie as I did.On a trial at the Admiralty Sessions, for shootinga seaman, the counsel for the crown asking one oflithe witnesses, which he was for, plaintiff or defend-ijant. Plaintiff or defendant! said the sailor, scrauh-jjling his head, why, I don’t know what you mean by'aplaintiff’ or defendant. I come to speak for that there,[pointing to the prisoner. You are a pretty fellow(for a witness (says the counsel) not to know whati [plaintiff or defendant means ! Some-time after, be-ling asked by the same counsel, what part of the shipI he was in at the time ? Abaft the binnacle, my lord,says the sailor. Abaft the binnacle ! (replied thebarrister) what part of the ship is that ? Ha ! ha !ha! (chuckled the sailor) are not you a pretty fellowof a counsellor (pointing to him archly with hisfinger) not to know where abaft the binnacle is !A little lawyer appearing as evidence in one ofthe courts, was asked by a gigantic counsellor, whatprofession he was of; and having replied that vhewas an attorecy. You a lawyer ! (said Brief) why Icould put you in my pocket. Very likely you-may,(rejoined the other) and if you do, you will have-more law in your pocket than in your head.isJimF12Colonel M of the P shire cavalry, was(lately complainin'!, that, from the ignorance and in-"attention of his officers, he was ohiiged to do thewhole duty of the regiment. I am (said he) myown captain, my own lieutenant, my own cornet,—and trumpeter also, I presume, said a certain Kittylduchess.When Mr. Fox was canvassing for Westminster,he called on a butcher in St. James’ market, to soli¬cit his vote. The knight of the cleaver, withoutceremony, thns answered his application; Sir, I ad¬mire your head, but damn your heart ! to which Mr.Fox replied. Sir, 1 admire your candour, but damnyou manners !A learned Scottish lawyer being just called to theBench, sent for the peruke-maker to measure himfor a new tye-wig. The peruquicr, on applying I’.isapparatus in one direction, was observed to smile.Upon which the worthy judge desired to know whatludicrous circumstance gave rise to his nfrth ? Thebarber replied, that he could not but remark the ex¬treme length of his honour’s head. That’s well, (saidLord S.) we lawyers have occasion for long heads !The barber, who by this time had completed thedimensions, now burst out into a fit of laughter; andan explanation being insisted on, at last declared,that he could not possibly contain himself, when hedicovered that his Lordship's head teas just as thickas it teas long !A certain Bishop had a Biscayan man servant,whom he ordered one festival to go to a butcher,who was called David, for a piece of meat, and thencome to the church, where the Bishop was to preach.The Bishop, in his sermon, bringing authorities from!! 13f Scripture in this rtisnner: Isaiah says thus: Jere-•hv.iah says thus-: at last, happening to turn towardslithe door as his servant came in, went on. And •achatVis ays David ? Upon which the Biscayan roared out,He sivears by God, that if yvu do not pay your old hill,: you need never send to his shop again.A charitable Divine, for the benefit of the countrywhere he resided, caused a causeway to be begun ;and as he was one day overlooking the workman, a; certain Nobleman passing by, said to him, well, Doc-ler, tor all your pains and charity, I don't take thiso be the high-ivay to heaven. Very true, replied theoctor, for if it had, I should have wondered to haveeen your Lordship here.A dignified Clergyman, going down to spend theutnmer, met near his house a comical old chimneyweeper, Triil? whom he used to cfes». So John,:.he Doctor, from whence came you ? From your house,It ays Mr. Soot : J~or this morning I have swept all yourw himnies. How many were there ? says the doctor,i \ro, less than twenty, quoth the doctor, you havet arned a great deal of money in a little time. Yes,res, sir, says John, throwing his bag of soot overis shoulders, ice black coats get our money eesyough.A countryman going into the office of the Com-ons where the wills are kept, and gazing on thege volumns on the shelves, asked if these were allhies ? No, Sir, answered our; of the clerks, theye testaments.A countryman very much marked with the smalldx, applied to a justice of peace for redress in anifair where one of his neighbours had ill-treatedJim; but not explaining the business so clrailai14the justice expected, fellow, said he, in a rage, Idontknow whether'you were inoculated for the small poxor,not, but I am sure you have been for stupidity.—Why, ant please you, replied the man, perhaps Imight, as you say, be inoculated for stupidity ; butthere was no occasion to perform that on your wor¬ship, for you seem to have had it in the natural way.Two country attornies, overtaking a waggoner onthe road, and thinking to be witty upon him, asked, |why his fore horse was so fat, and the rest so lean ? |The waggoner knowing them, answered that his fore Jhorse was a lawyer, andtjie rest were his clients.An Irishman, a short time since, bade an extraor¬dinary price for an alarm clock, and gave a» a reasonthat, as he loved to rise early, he had nothing to dobut pull the string, and he could wake himself.A countryman, at Burry assizes, was indicted and !arraigned for stealing a goose; but the accusation l:was false, for he brought a neighbour of his, who-sware positively, that he remembered that very goose-in his possession ever since it was a gosling. An 1Irishman, who was a prisoner for stealing a gun,hearing this successful defence, prevailed on a fellowcountryman of his, to swear that he remembered the ‘•agun in his possession ever since it was a pistol.When the celebrated beau Nash was ill, Dr |Cheyne wrote a prescription for him. The next!day, the Doctor coming to see his patient, inquired.!if he had followed his prescription? No faith, saidilNash, if I had I should have broke my neck, for lthrew it out of a two pair of stairs' window.An Irish gentleman was visited by a friend, whofound him a little ruffled ; and being asked the reasonof it, said, he had lost a new pfiir of black silk stock- fI>i15i! ings out of his room, that had cost him eighteen!jhillings; but that he hoped he should get themiljagain, for that he had ordered them to be cried, and;|had offered half-a-crown of reward. The gentleman(observed, that the reward was far too little for suchvaluable stockings. Pho, said the Irish gentleman,ordered the cryer to say they ivere worsted.A preacher in Arabia having for bis text a portionf the Koran, I have called Noah, after twice repeat¬ing his text, made a long pause: an Arab then pre-sent, thinking that he was waiting for an answer, ex¬claimed, If Noah will hot come, what hinders youifrom calling somebody else.Two Oxford scholars meeting on the road with aYorkshire ostler, they fell to bantering him, and told|:he fellow that they would prove him to be a horseor an ass. Well, said the ostler, and I can proveirour saddle to be a mule, A mule ! cried one ofi: hem, how can that be ? Because, said the ostler, its something between a horse and an ass.A culprit asked Jack Ketch if he had any com-jnands to the other world. Why, said Jack, notnany ; I’ll only, added he, as he adjusted the knotjindcr his left ear, just trouble you with a line.A parson in the country, taking his text in St.vlatthew, chap. viii. verse 1 And Peters wife’snot her lay sick of a fever, preached for three Sundaysogether on the same subject. Soon alter two fel-nws going across the church-yard, and hearing theell toll, one asked the other who it «as for? Nav,can’t tell ; perhaps ; replied he, It is for Peter'.,hife's mother, for she has been sick of a fever theseihree weeks.a gentleman lying on h:s death bed, called to hw—•16coachman, who ha'l been an old servant, and said,Ah, Tom, I am going a long and rugged journey,worse than ever j'ou drove me. Oh! dear sir, re-piieo the fellow, ne’er let that disturb you for it’s alldown hill.Two gentleman, one named Woodcock and theother Fuller, walking together, happened to see anowl; says the last That bird is very like a Woodcock.You're very wrong, says the first,, for it's Fuller inthe head, Fuller in the eyes, and Fuller all over.At a late Execution in the old Bailey, the hang¬man was blamed for hurrying them,—Och, be aisy,says an Irishman, it is mere humanity, for were theyto stand long in the cold they would catch theirdeaths.An Irish servant being struck by his master, criedOut, Devil take me, if I am certain whether lie haskilled me or not, but if I am dead it will afford megreat satisfaction to hear the old rogue was hangedfor killing me.One Irishman meeting another, asked what wasbecome of their old acquaintance Patrick Murphy ?Arrah, my dear honey, answered the other, poorpaddy was condemned to be hanged, but he savedhis life by dying in.prison.An Irishman being asked which was oldest, he orhis brother, I am oldest, said he; but if my brotherlives three years longer we shall be both of one age.One saying to another, you speak foolishly, he}answered. It is that you may undersand me.A military officer of diminutive stature, was drill¬ing a tall Irish recruit. Hold up your head, salt ,the officer, elevating the chin of the Irishman w;tll,the end of his cape, to au angle of nearly forty de>17grees, hold up your head io.—And must I alwaya doso captain ? asked the recruit. Yes, alwaya, answer¬ed the officer. Then fare you well, my dear littlefellow, rejoined Paddy, for I shall never see youmore.A countryman seeing a lady in the street ia a veryodd dress, as he thought, begged of her to tell himwhat she called it The lady, a little sui prised atthe question, called him an impertinent fellow. Nay,I hope no offence, madam, said Hodge, I am a poorcountryman, just going out of town, and sty wife al-i ways expects I should bring her an account of thernewest fashion, which occasioned my inquiring what'you call this that you wear.—It is a sack, said she,in a great pet. I have heard, said the countryman,<of a pig in a poke, but I never before saw a sow in a[Back.A soldier being to be sent on the late Spanish ex¬pedition, said to the officer directing the drafts, Sir,i cannot go because I—T—stutter.—Stutter ! saysube officer, you don’t go to talk but to fight—Ay,put thay’ll p-p-put me on ^ g-guard, and a man mayi'Q ha-ha-half a mile, before 1 can say, wb-wh whoIoes there? Oil, that’s no objection, for there v*i!le another sentry placed along with you, and he canhallenge if you can fire Well b-b-but 1 may b&tken, and run through the g-g-guts. b:fore I canry qu-qu-quarter.An Irishman telling his friend, '.hut passing alongie street, he saw a person on the other side, v ithhorn he thought he was acquainted said.l crossedI see him, I thought I knew him, and he thought he1 iew me ; but by Jasus my honey, ic was neither, oner t’other of us.18A person asked an Irishman why he wor« hisstockings the wrong side outwards ? Because, saidhe, there is a hole on the other side.An Irishman^ in the late General Washington’sarmy, being separated from his companions, was metby five Hessian soldiers, Pat seeing his danger, or*dered them to surrender.—They suspecting him tobe backed by numbers, immediately obeyed. Patshouldered their arms and matched them to theGeneral’s tent, when being asked how a single mandurst encounter five. O by Jasus, my General, Isurrounded them ! Washington who was seldom seento smile, laughed heartily, and promoted him to ahalbert.As an Irish Officer, who was severely wounded atthe battle of Waterloo, lay on the ground, a foreign!soldier, who was near him, also wounded, made aSterrible howling; when the officer exclaimed, D—nlyou sir. what do you make such a noise for, do youf,think there’s nobody killed but yourself.Once at a meeting of ministers, a question of mo ,,ment was started to be debated among them. Upor -the first proposal of it, a. confident young man sho-Ids bolt presently. He said, Truly I hold it so. 4grave minister answered, You hold, sir, it become ,you to!hold your peace.Lady Hnnting'ton once asking a person if shknew who it was that redeemed her, received fn ,answer. Yes madam, I know very well who it wathat redeemed me ; it was Pontius Pilate.A gentleman who had engaged an Irish footmain his service, on teiiing him that aborning and evering prayers were observed in the family, he hope s.that would not be any objection to him, he repliei j19no, sir, but I hope you will consider it in my wagesAn Irishman one day was walking on the streetsof Belfast, found a light Guinea, and got 18s. for it.Next day he was travelling and sees another, andsays, Allelieu dear honey, I’ll have nothing to dowith you, for I lost 3s. by your brother yesterday.Dr. Gill once preaching on human inability, a gen¬tleman present was much offended, and took him totask for degrading human nature. The doctor said,tI pray, sir, what do you think men can contribute to' their own conversion ? Me began to enumerate' avariety of particulars. The doctor said, and have/ you done all this ? Why no, I can’t say that I haveyet; but I hope I shall begin .soon. If you havehad these things in your power; and have not donethem, yen' deserve to be doubly damned.Mr. Lawrence, who was a sufferer for non-confor-imity, if he would have consulted with flt»h andJ blood, had eleven arguments against it, viz. a wife! and ten children. Being once asked how he meantto maintain them all, he cheerfully replied, they•iimustall live on the sixth of Matthew—Take nothought for to-morrow.Lady Wallace, celebrated in Scotland for her witjii and beauty, happening to be at an assembly in Edin-|burgh, a young gentletnan, tlie son of his Majesty’sprinter, who had the patent for publishing Bibles,made his appearance, dressed in green and gold.IBeing a new face, and extremely elegant, he attract¬ed the attention of the whole company. A generalraurmer prevailed in the room, to know what he was ?Lady W instantly made answer loud enoughto be heard ‘ Oh, don’t you know him ? It is youngBible, bound in caZ/and gilt, but notletterd !20A ichoolinaster in St. Quivox parish, lately wroUA letter to a gentleman in Ayr, containing about 1 jlines, which was the hard labour of four hours, t«paint and equalize every top turn, swell and hailstroke, and at the bottom, he added-—haste !!,At the time of the late dullness of trade, wherevery one was crying out; the gravedigger of a conn,try parish, near Ayr, was accosted one morning ashe was going to ring his bell, by a man, who said.Well John, and how is trade with you? to whichthe gravedigger replie'd, ‘ Very bad, for I have noigot a living soul to burry these six weeks.’Two Germans going into a Coffee-house in Lon.don, wished to give the company a specimen of theiiknowledge of the English language : ‘ Did it rain tcmorrow ?’ asked the one, * Yes it was,’ replied theSother.One day a King and his fen finding it warm ir fhunting, put their clothes on the back of their jesteiadding, You have an ass’s load upou you,, ‘ ratheireplied the fool, the load of two asses.’An ignorant countryman was called upon to takehis oath. The man hesitated,, and then replied, 1 MyLord Judge, I know nothing about oaths; but i;you will permit me, I will fetch my son who is cgrenadier, and he will swear as many as yeur wor*iship may choose.’A poor man who happened to have- a very Ion* i'beard, being examined >s a witness in a court o!justice, the Judge thought proper to be very angrywith him. and told him. he believed bis consciencewas as long as his beard. Were consciences to bemeasured by beards replied the poor man, youtLordship would have none at all.21A Minister one day seeing an old woman, one ofs parishioners, who had got. a glass extraordinary,tting by the road side, with her burden lying in themd before her, reproved her sharply for being inuch a situation, and asked her if she knew where11 drunkards go to? - Help me up wi' my bundle,iiid Janet, and I’ll tell you. Well, well, said thalinister, I shall. Now—answer my question.Veel—to tell you the truth, Sir, they just gohere the drap o’ guid drink is .o,be gotten.An apothecary in Cork has over his door, Dyingtuffs sold here.A bill once passed the Irish Parliament, for pull*ig down the old jail in Dublin, and rebuilding it onre same spot, in which it was enacted, that in order0 prevent unnecessary cxpence* the prisoners shouldmain in the old jail till the new one was finished !At a musical meeting in the country, a vocal per-ormer who was shabbily dressed about the smalllothes, being complimented on the power of hisoice, vainly tossed up his head and replied, C) £ir,can make any thing of it, €■ n you indeed, said ali-rson in company, why then, I'd advise you to make1 pair of breeches of it.An old woman who sold ale,'being at church, fellsleep during the sermon, and unluckily let her old-ashioned clasped bible fall, which making a great?eise, she roared out, half a wake, so you jade ! there’snether jug broken. >An Irishman in court having sworn two oaths theJustice charged him two shillings. How much doyou charge for a curse ? said Patl Sixpence, re-jlied the Justice, Then take my half-crown, as Irate change, and a curse light on you all returnedPat.22A poor crazy fellow, who begs from house Ihouse, asked charity of the late duke of Newcasthand pretending to be his relation. His grace beggcto know how nearly they were allied, when the matold him, we were all brothers and sisters from Adarvery well, answered the duke, ‘I acknowledge tfrelationship and there’s a penny for you, and ifeacof your brothers and sisters give you as much, ycwill be much richer than I am.An Irish Auction Bill.-—To be sold by auction, tEaster Monday next, all the choice household fiiniture of Terence O’Braney, who is going to set ifor a gentleman in the country, viz : an oak tabwith gouty feet; a girdiron that has lost three ofiribs ; an ashmatic pair of bellows, a pair of spect.cles dim with age, a capboard that has not been etrusted with any thing these forty years, a good nefeather bed, stuffed with chaff, a large tin copper,bedstead instead of a bed, a pair of boots, wrinklewith age, with sundry articles too tedious to insertA person who was lately visiting the museumMr. Geo. Wallis, the celebrated gunsmith, at Huhappened to take hold ofavery curious fowling-piecand fixed his attention so particularly upon it, th ;Mr. W. not liking the appearance of the man, civi!|requested him to replace the gun where he found litthe man replied, the gun was not charged, and theifore there was no danger of its going off.—True, iplied Mr. W. but I had a fowling-piece of the sackind stolen the other day, so that you see it may roff though it is not charged.An honest Hibernian being asked what time >usually went to his bed, replied, ‘ Every night, deabout one io the morning.23Ona Irishman ami an Englishman falling out, theI Hibernian told him if he did not hold his tongue, heilwould break his iropeaetrable head, and let the brainsoat of his empty scull!Lady Wallace when a very young girl, romping. with some other little misses near a mill-dam, was of¬ten very incautiously approaching the brink of thewater, when Lady Maxwell, her mother, called outIto her.—‘ For God’s sake, girl, be more cautious, oryou will most certainly tumble into the water andbe drowned.’ * I’ll be damned if I do, mamma,’ re¬plied the punster. ‘ Oh ! child (remarked her mo¬ther) that wit of your’s will one day prove your ruin.’‘ I'm sure, then, it won't be mother-toil,’ retorted thelittle minx.A gentleman who possessed a small estate ini Gloucester-shire, was allured to town by the pre¬mises of the Duke of Newcastle, who for manyj mouths kept him in constant attendance, until thej poor man’s patience being quite exhausted, he onei i morning called upon his patron, and told him that he, had at length got a place. The Duke very cordiallyshook him by the hand, and congratulated him onhis good fortune. ‘ But pray, sir, (added he) whereis your place?’ ‘ In the Glocester Coach, (repliedhe^ I secured it last night; and you sir, have curedme of higher ambition.’i Hently’g audience at his oratory was generallycomposed of the lowest orders ; he once attracted to-! gether an immense number of fhoe-makers, by ad¬vertising. that on the following Saturday he wouldlay open to the public a mode, by which a pair ofshoes might be made in four minutes, and demonstratethe case and certainty of this new method, by perfor-2-tming it in the face of the audience. He did so—hiproducing a pair of boots, and cutting the feet ofA lady asked a very silly Scotch nobleman, howhappened that the Scots who came out of their owlcountry, were generally speaking, men ot more rbilities than those who remai«ed at home. Ofmadam, .said he, the reason is obvious. At evetoutlet! there are persons stationed to examinewho pass, that for the honour of the country,one be permited to leave it, wbo is not a man;understanding' 'ilien said she, I suppose yfi'1Lordship was smuggled.When Sir Elijah Impey was on his passage triIndia, as he was one day walking the deck it hawblown prettv hard the preceding day, a sharkpUving by the side of the ship. Having never Isuch an object before, he called to oneot the satto tell him what it was. Why, replied thef1I don’t know what name they know 'em by aslibut here we call 'em sen Idtuyers.A sailor coming across Blackheath one eviwas sloped by a foot-pad, whp dema-.decVhis rncwhen a scuffle ensuing ; the tar ssi^ed therobber^meeting some people, they persuaded him t<“away with his prize to a justice of the pejWoolwich, which the tar did. When the magcame to examine into the assault, he sadhstake his oath that the robber put him in bodilotherwise he could .not commit him. 1 helooking steadfastly at the justice, answered Hclhim, he put me in bodily fear ! :No. nor any 'ever lived ; therefore if that is the case, yelet him go—-^for damn me if I smear to any fraFINIS.aw*