3b ^ 5= ^AN AWFULMEMORIALOF THE STATE OFFrancis Spira,AFTER HE TURN’DAPOSTATEFROM THEProteftant ChurchTOPOPERY. -Heaven tasted and lost, a double Hell!I ve call d thee Reader; pray so beeRead tils, that oilers read not thee.i-f H -H n t->- M i i t -i Mt ' ' ' ' •FALKIRK:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.1815.mVeD/NBURgvA-'C 2 ]TimHISTORYOFFRANCIS SPIRA.*xxsxx>ixvxxxxxH—f- xxxxxxxxxxxxxx*JiNT the year 1548, v.hen the glorious Sunof the Gofpel was but newly rifen in Europe,in the rign of Edward VI, King'of England,in the territory, and under the jurifdi&ion o:the City of Venice, being the very border of Italyin the Town of Citadelia, lived on FrancisSpiraa Civil Lawyer, an Advocate of'great rank antefleetn, being of great experience, of circutnfpeflcarriage and fevete, his fpeech grave and com-pofed, his codnttnance iharp and aullere, every'.vay befitting that authority whereunto he wasadvanced ; endowed with the bleffings of a wifeand eleven children, and wealth in abundance.—1 "What his word parts were, I have no otherwarrant than his own words, which, if not taintedover-much with the bitternefs of adefperate mind,and bearing a countenance rather of prffion, thanof a fober confeflion, may feem to add a periodto all further commendations.tt I was,” faith he, “ exceedingly covetousu 0f money ; and accordingly applied myfelfto got it by tnjuliice, corrupting jullice bydeceit, inven,ung^ tricks to delude jullice ;C 3 1good caufes I either defended decitfullv, or“ fold them to the adverfary perfidioully.—“■ III caufes I maintained with all my might.“ I wittingly oppofed the known truth; and“ the trull committed unto me, I cither be-“ trayed or perverted.”Thus having worn out forty-four years, orthereabouts, and the news of the fteui, or rathernewly revived opinions of Luther coming intothofe parts, reprefented an objefl of noveltyunto him, who being defirous to know, as liewas famous for knowledge, fuffered not thsfowandering opinions to pal's unexamined ; butfearch’ng into the Scriptures, and into all booksof controverfies that lie could get, both old andnew, and finding more that; fame and opinion,,he began to talle their nature fo well, that heentertained, loved, and owned them at length,and with fuch zeal, that he became a profedfor,yea, a teacher of them, lirll to his wife, children.and family, and -afterwards to his friends andfamiliar acquaintance; and, in c )inparifon,feeinedto negleS all other affairs ; always maintainingthis main point, “ That we mull wholly and onlydepend on the free and unchangeable love of 0od,in the death of Chrift, a* the only fure Way tofalvation.” And tnis was the jam of all hisdifcourfefor the fpace of fix years, or thereabcruf,fo long as the knowledge of it was kept iecret;but at length it brake forth ui public meetings,fo that the whole Province of Padua wa* over¬run with the knowledge of this new dodtrine.The Clergy finding the trade of their 1’ardonsto decay, and their Purgatory to wax cold’,began .to bekir themieives ; gh fling their afticnsiir% with calumnious aijpeifion.- upcn the v holeprofeffion; then more plainly linking a; SplraG 4 ]with grievous accufations. And to effcA theirpurpoi'e, fame threatened him ; others promifedhim favours and preferment; fome would counfelhim, and all joined to divide either his foul fromhis body, or both from God.At this time one John Cafa was the Pope’sLegate at Venice, a Fiorentimine by birth, andone that wanted neither mahce againft thofewhowere of Spire’s opinion, nor craftinefs to effecthis malicious purpofes. To him thefe men re¬paired with outcries againlt Spira, that he wasthe man that condemned the received rights ofthe Church, eluded the Eccltfrafticai power, andfcandalized the policy thereof; one of no meanrank, being a man of fome account and authority,'and a To harned in the Scriptures, eloquent ini'peech, and, in one word, a dangerous 1 utheran,having alfo many difcipjes, and therefore a mannot to be defpifed.The Legate^ upon hearing this, began to re¬flect on the terrihle alteration that had latelyhappened in Germany ; where, by the means ofone man only, viz Luther, the Romilh religionhad fuffered fuch a blow', as that it could neitherbe cured by diffimuiation, nor defended by power,but the Clergy jnuil either mend their mahners,or lofe their dignities. On the ether hand, whenhe faw hovv rgadily the common people, inhabit¬ing the bordering country of Itaty, were to en¬tertain thefe ne\\i opinions, he now thought itno time to difpute or^erfuade, but w ith ipeedrepairs to the Senate, and procures authorityfrom them to fend for Spira.Spira, b; this time, had confidered with hira-felf tha nature of his courage, how evident andnotorious it was, and therefore lubjtA to beenvied by fuch as neither liked hi» perfon nor• ' 4 -v.I 5 1nsligion. He perceived that his opinions wereneither retired, nor fpeculative, but fuch asaimed at the Rotnifli faftion. and a change ofpolicy. And that his enemies wanted neitherpower nor ocerttion to call him to'an ^cconnt wpublic when he mull citr>er apoilatize, audihame-fully give his former life, yea, his own consci¬ence the lie, or endure -the utmoll malice of km-dreadful enemies ; or.forfake his wife, children,friends, goods, aathority, yea, hi* dear country,and betake him!’*!? to a foreign people, there toendure a thoufand miferies* that do ccnunuaiiyattend upon a voluntary exile.Being thus didrafted, and toffed by reftiefswaves o£ doubt, withcmt guide to vrull to, i .•haven to fly to for fuccours, oh a fuddenv Go AsSpirit affifling, he felt a calm, and •began to reafotiwith himfelf in the following manner.Why wandered thou thus in uncertainties,unhappy man ? Call away fear; put on thy flue Id,the fliieid of faith. Where is thy wonted cou¬rage, thy goodnefs and cor.flancy ? Rememberthat Chrilt’s glopy lies at flake, fuffer thou with¬out fear, and he will defend thee ; he will tollthee what thou limit anfwer ; he can beat down ®all danger ; bring thee out of prifon ; raife theefrom the dead. Gor.fxder Peter in a dungeon ;the mt.e-yes in the Are. If thou rnakefl a goodconfeffion, thou mayeil indeed go to prifon or"death, but an eternal reward remains in. heavenfor thee. What hall thou in this world coni-parable tc everlafling happinefs ? If thou doffotherwife, think of ti e fcatida!; (common peoplelive by example, thinking whatever is done, iswell done.}; fear the lot's of peace and joy ;;\r d'-atli. hell, and eternal wtathlf! Or. if. ' '.uil-db. jc io flooUg as t.o caulc, th.t^ to doubt:of die hTje, fly thy eoun ry, get thee stray,thoagb never to far, rather than deny theLvd of life.”h-iow was Spira in -eafonabk beingrefolveci to yield to thcfc weighty reSfons.—Yet holding ;t vvifdom to exair.ine all things,he confnlts alto with ilefli and blood. Thusthe b-atii? doth renew, and the beganto reafon thus :** Ue well advifed, fond man; confider reafon*tn both (ides, and then j'idgs. IInw canfl: thouthus overcome thy lufficiency, as thou neitherregarded the examples of thy progenitors, northe judgment of the whole ehurch? Dart thounot contlder what mifery this thy rafltnef* will•bring unto thee ? Thou flialt lofe all thy fub-llance, gotten with fo great care and travail;then (halt undergo the mod exquifite tormentsthat malice can devife ; thou limit be countedan heretic, and to dole up all, thou flialt diefliamefully. What thinked then of the lothfomeftinking dungeon, the bloody ax, or the burningfaggot? Are they delightful ? Be wife at length,and keep thy life and honour ; thou mayeft liveto do much good to men, as God commands thee ;and thou mayeft be an ornament to thy country."VVilt tjioti bring thy friends alfo into danger'?Thou haft begotten children, wilt thou nor cut.their throats, and inhumanly butcher them, whomay in time bring honour to their country, gloryto God, help and furtherance to his church?Go to the Legate, weak man, freely confefa thyfault, and help all thefe miferies.”Thus did the cares of this world, and thedeceitfulnefs of riche* choak the good feed thatwas formerly fown. He feared and fainted, andy ieldcd unto the allurements of this world —t.Z ]•'.<Reiog lhas blinded, be want to the Legate atl Venice, and thui addreflcd him :“ Having for thefe diverfe yearz entertainedan opinion concerning feme article* cf faith,contrary to the orthodox and received judgment:i of the Church, and uttered many things agauid:: the authority of the Church of Rome, anti theUihverfai BUhop; I humbly a knowledge u;yi fault and error, and my folly in m'nleading others.! I therefore yield myfelf in all obedience to the: Supreme Biflmp of the Church df P«.ome, neverto depart again from the traditions and decrees; :of the Holy See. I am heartily forry for uh .ti is pad, and humbly beg pardon for my offence.The Legate having heard Spira’s conftfSan,> caufed a recitation of all his errors to be drawn1 up in writing, together with the Cunfdbcn an-; ntxed to it, and comnfanded Spira to fubferibehis name thereto, w hich accordingly he did.—Then the Legate commanded him to return tohi a own town, and there to declare this Cor-feffi >n «f his, and to acknowledge the wholeDoctrine of the Church cf Rome to he hob'and true; and to abjure the opinions of Lutherand other fuch teachers, as falfe and heretical.Spira fubmkted to this humiliating order ofthe Legate’s, and promifed to accomplifit hiswhole will and plealure. But, on his way home,he began to think of what he had done ; how hehad Ihamefully negleJled the opportunity cfgiving a glorious teflimony of his faith beforeti e-Legate ; and how he had-impioul’y deniedC-nriU and his gofpel at Venice, belidcs what hehad promiie'd to do further in his own country.And thus, through fear and lhair.e. being con-hunded, lie thought"he htajd a voice i*taking" - him in this nnr.iner.p. rL 8 ] .“'Spiral 'Whet do£t* thou here? WKithergoeit thou ? Haft th u, unhappy iraa, giventhy hand-writing to the Legate at Venice?—Yet fee thou donotfeal it ia thine own country.Doft thou, indeed think eternal life fo mean athing, as that thou prefereft this prefent lifebefore it ? Doft thou well in prefering wife andebi!dren:fceft.re‘Chrift-? Is -the windy applaufeof the people better, indeed, than the glory ofOjd ; and the poff fii 'n of this world's good,more dear to thee than the falv-ation of thinsdwn i'uu: ? Is th: fmall enjoyment of a momentof time, mere defii eable than eternal wrath isdreadful ? Think with thyfelf. what Chrift didendure for thy fake ! Is it not equal that thou•fhouldaft fuflTer fomewbat for him? Remember,man, tlto.: the fuff.rings of this prefent life, arenet comparable to the glory that fhail be revealed.If thom’iuffePeft ith him, thou ihalt alfo reignwith him. Tlioti cur,ft not anfwer for v, hatthou haft already done,- neverthelefs the gate’ of mercy is not quite ihut : Take heed thatthou heapeil not tin -upon fin, left thou repentwhen it is too late.3’Now v, as Spira in the wildetnefs of doebt,not knowing which way to turn him, or whatto do ; vet being arrived in his own country,and among his friends, coofidering what he had<3one, and what' he had farther promifed to do ;and Jiow the terror of God, on the one fide, ai dthe terror of this- world on the other, did con¬tinually rack him; and therefore he deftrtdtheir advice in fo doubtful a cale. His friends,upon fmaU deliberation, ar.lwered, 1 hat it w asrequifite he thould take heed that he did not,in any wife, fcetrav his wife and children, and allhi* friends, into danger; ieemg, that byfofmalla matter as the reciting of a little Schedule,which might be done in lei's fpace than halfan hour, he might both free ftimTeIi from prefentj danger, and preferve many that depended on him;adding, moreover, that he could get no credit hirelenting from that which he had already, forthe mod part, acknowledged before the Lcga'eI at Venice ; and that in the per fefl accomplifliitigthereof, little, or no diforedit Could ar ile, morethan what by-the former a eh on be had alreadyfuftained. On the other fide, if he did not per-, form his p 'dmiie to the Legate, he could neitherdifcharge himielf of the fhame which he had al¬ready incurred, nor avoid far more heavy and; iniupportabie injuries, than probably he fhouldhave endured, if he had perilled obiUnately in111 his former opinions,n Tins was *; e iait blow of the battle, and Spiral■ utterly overcome, goes to the P; *tor, and makesi offer to per farm his promife made to the Legate;’ who, in the mean time, had taken order to haveall things ready, and font the inflrument of ab-1 juration, hgned by S;.v a, to the Praetor, by thehands oi a certain pried.Ail tliat night the miferuble man wore outwith rcfllefs cares, without a minute of led,—I he ne^t morning being come, lie got up, andbeing ready, delperately enters into the publiccongregation, where Mats being finifiicd, in the.preieftce of friends and enemies ana of the wholejuT.mbly, being, b ■ ettimatiun, near two thoufandpeople; yea, ana of Pleaven itielf! he recitecitnat infamous abjuration, word for word, as itwas written. It being doncs-, he was fined ofthirty, pieces of gold, which he prefently paid ;five whereol were given- to the prieic that broughetns abjuration, the other five and twenty were[ 10 ]employed towards the making of a flirine to putthe Eucharift in. Then he went home, and was jreflored to his dignities, properties, wife, and |children.No foc-ner was he departed, but he thoughthe heard a direful Yoice faying to him,“■ 1 h- u wicked wretch, thou hail denied me;thou hail renounced the covenant of thy obedi- !jerce ; thou halt broken thy vow I Hence, ape- Jflate, bear with th*e t.he fentenee of thy eternaldamnation !”Trembling and quaking in body and mind,he fell down in a iwoon : Relief was at handfur the body, but from that time forward, he 'never found any peace or eafe of mind, con¬tinuing in inceffiint torments!—lie prutededthat he was captivated under the revenging handof the great God 1 — That he heard continuallythat fearful fentence of Chriit, that juft judge !That he knew he was utterly, undone! — Thathe could neither hope for grace, nor Chrill’sinterceffion with God the Father in his behalf!—■Thus was his fault ever fleavy on his heart, andhis judgment before his eyes ! 'Now began feme of his friends to repent, but;too late, of their raft) counfel; others, not look¬ing fo high as the juft judgment of God, laid allthe blame on his melancholy conflitution; thatoverlhadowing his judgment, wrought in bana kind of madnefs. Every one cenlurcd as h;sfancy led him; yet, for rt merb , all agreed in this,To ufe both the help of Fhyfjcians, and the piousadvice of Divines ; and therefore thought it fitto convey him to Padua, an Univtrfity ot note,,where all manner of means were to be had.This they accordingly did, both with his w ife,children, and whole family; others a. to oi inst ” ]friends accompanying him. And being arrivedat the haute of one James Arden, in St. Leonard'sparini, they fent for three eminent Phvficiani,who uoon due ohfervaiion of the e'ffe&s, and of 'other ivnoptoms of his difeafe, and fome privateconference one with another amongltthemfelves,returned this anfwe.r : That they could not dif-cern that his body was afflt&ed with any dangeror diilemper: ofiginally from itfelf, by reaion ofthe over-ruling of any humour j but that thishis malady did arife from fome grief or pafiionof the mind, which being over-burdened, did foopprefi the fptrits, as that they wanted a freepiaffage ; 'which furred up’ many ill humours,whereof the body of man is full ; and tfiefeafeending up into the brain, troubled the fancy,fhadowed the feat of judgment, and corrupted it.This was flie fiate of his difeafe, and that out¬ward part that was vifible to the eye of nature.This they endeavoured to reform by purgation;eith'r to ccnfume. or at lead div.rt the courfeef thofe humours from the brain. But all theirfkill efFtcled nothing; wi*:h made Spira fay,“ Alas 1 poor men, bow ignorant are veu ?Do you chink that this difeafe is to be curedby potions ? Believe me, there mnft be anothermanner of medicine ; it is neither plaifter nordrugs- that can help- a fainting foul, caft downwith the lenfe of lin, and wrath of God ; it i&^mly Chrill that mull be the Phyfician, and thegoft el the foul's antidote.”The Phyficians ealily believed him, after theyhad underilocd the whole truth of the matter;and therefore they wilhed him to. leek femei’piritual comfort.,, By this time, the fame of Spira was fpreat!all-over Padua, and '.he., n; Jghboavirg c.cun;rv[ 12 ]par’ly, b^caiUe a? the difeafe, fo the occafionivas particularly remarkable. Multitudes, ofall lores, came to fee him ; feme out of curioiity,vnly to fee and difcouHe j fome out of a piousdelire! to try ail means that might reduce himto comfort again; or at lead, to benefit them-ieives by a fpedlacie of mi'fery, and the jufticeof God. Amonglt thd'e Paulus, bifhop of Juftin-»poli3, and Mathaeus Gribauldas, deferve efpe-cially to be named, as the nfoft principal labou.rers for Spire's comfort-They found him now about fifty years of age,neither affedted with the dotage of old age, norwith the unconfcasit hcad-ftrong paffion of youth,but in the ftrength of his experience and judg¬ment ; in a burning, heat, calling .excdiively fordrink, yet his underftanding adtive, quick ofapjarehcnfion, witty in difeourfe, above hi* ordvnary manner, and judicioully appoGte.Spira’s fi *end* laboured with him by all fai^means to receive nouriilimcnt; which he obfti-natyry refufing, they forcibly infnfcd ibrue liquidiiifc&nance into his mouth, moft of.which he ipitout again, exceedingly chafing; and in this fret¬ting mood of his faid,*"• As it 1$ true, that all things work for thebeft to thofe th.ir loVe 'Glo ; lb to the wickedall are contrary : Fot4, whereas a plentiful <.ff-fpring is the bleffing of Gno, and his ret war,1,being a ftay to the we d eftate of their agedparents; i'o me th. y are a curfe of bitterref*and vexation! they do ftvive to make me n reout this miferable life ; I would fain be at anend of it. O that I were gore from hence!that homebody would let out this weary ioul! ’His friends fainted him,, and slked him, whathe conceived uo be the caufe of-hit dileav: ?•At which he broke out into a lamentable dif-f tourfe^of the p^ffages formerly related; and that| with f^ch.paffionate elocution, as cauted manyta weep, and moft to tremble. They contrarily,to comforrt him, propounded many examplesof God’s mercy.|j _j t, JMy fin,” faid he, u is greater than the; mercy of God.”j Nay, anf*ered they, the mercy of God isI above all ftn ; God would have all men to beI faved. “ It is true, (quoth he), He would haveall that he hath defied to be laved ; he wouldnot have damned reprobates to be faved : I amone of that number, I know it; for I willinglyand againft my knowledge, denied Chrift; and; I feel that the hardens, and will not fufter meto^hope.” After i’qnte filence, one aflted him.Whether he did not believe that doftrine to betrue, for which he was aedufed before the Legate?j He ar.iwered, “ I did believe it, when 1 de-( .nied it; but now, I neither believe that, northe dcflriqe of the R irhifh Church : I believe( nothing, I have t no faith, no trull, no hope.—I am a reprobate, like Cain or Judas, who callingaway all hope of mercy, fell into delpair ; andmy fri,.Hds do me great wrong that they lufferme not to g) to the place of'urbeiievers, as Ijudly dclerve.” '1 ben they began, (barply toictouke him, requiring and. charging him, thatin any wife he did not violate the mercy of God.ao which he ahlyverc.l, The nrercy of God isexceeding large, and extends to all the elect, butnot to me, or any like to me, who are fealed'upto wra I tell you I deferve it; my owncopiejerce condemns' nte, what need is there-forttny other judge ?f>[ U ]Chrift cams, fail they, to take away fin, Hjii. 5. Ami calling for a book, they readlUnto nim the paffion ot Chrifi ; and coming to'jj!his nailing to the crots, Spira faid, “ This indeedComfortable to inch as are ele&sd ; but as for ;nie, wretch, they are nothing but grief and tor¬ment, becaufe I contemned them.” Thus cryingout with grief, and toiling himfelf up and dow non a bed whereon he lav, he intreated them toxead no more to him.Wh en Gribauldus came to fee him, Vergeriua ilaid to Spira, Dear Sir, here is Dr. Gribauldus,a godly and faithful friend of yours, come to feeyou. He is welcome, faid he, but he {hall findme ill, Gnbauldus replied. Sir, this is but anillufi on of the devil, who doth what he can totevex you; but turn you to God with your wholeheart, and he is ready to Ihew you mercy.—The Lord, you know, is full of mercy ; it is hethat hath faid, “ That as often as a finner (hailrepent of his fin, he will remembea his fin ncmore.” Confider this in the example of Peter,that was Chrilt’s familiar and apolile', who deniedhim thrice, and not wit ^(landing all that, did notChrift Ihew mercy to him ? Is the Lord’s handnow fiiortened that it cannSt fave ?To this Snira anf>.vered, “ If Peter grievedand repented, it was becaufc Chrill looked on hintwith a merciful eye; and inthat he was pardonedit wa> not becaufe lie wept, but becau'ie God wasgracious to him. But God refpefts not me, arutherefore I am a reprobate. I Lei no comfotican enter into my heart; there is only placfthere for torments and vexing* of fpirit. 1 telyou mv cafe is properly 'mine _own > no matwas ever in the like condition, and therefor'my {Sate is Laiful!” — Then roaring out in t.h[ 15 1bitteenefs of his fpirit,faid, ^ It is a fearful thingi to fall into the hands of the living God !”! The violence of his pnlTion and aflion, did| amaze many of the beholders fo much, that fomeof them faid^ with *hiiepering voices, that hewas polTefied. He overhearing it, laid, Do youdoubt it ? A whole legion of devils have taken uptheir dwelling in me, and pofTefs me us their own 1and juilly too. for I have denied ChrilhDid you it wittingly, or not? laid they.—l That is nothing to the purpofe, laid Spira;Chrill hath faid, “ Whofoever denies me beforemen, him will I deny before my Father which isin heaven.” Chrill will not be denied, no notin a word ; and therefore it is enough, thoughi in heart I never denied him.They obl'ervlng his dillemper to arife fromthe fenfe and horror of the pains of hell, alked.him, if he thought them wori’e pains than v.hathe endured for the prefent ? He/aid, that heknew there were far worfe pains than thofe hethen fuffered; “ For the wicked lhali rife totheir judgment ; bus. they fhall not {land injudgment,” hfalm i. This I tremble to think of!yet I do defire nothing more, than that I mightcome to that place where I might be fure to feelthe worll, and to be freed from fe-ar of worfeto come.” Ay,but you are to co .ftaer, faid one,that thofe opinions, for which you were accufedbefore the Ltgate, were impious ; and thereforeyou are not to think you denied ChrUi, but rattierthat you confclled him, acknowledging the infal-| hb e tiuth of the Catholic Church. Truly,laid he, w.hch I did deny thole opinion:, 1 didUa.ik them to be true, and \.et [ did deny him.dii, laid another, irv to believe now that theyare true. Now I cannot, faith hej God trillC 16 ]not fuffcr me to believe them, nor trufl: in bnmercy. What would you have me to do? —I would fain attain to this power, but cannot,tho' I Ihouid prafentlv be burned for it.But why do you, faid another, efteem this fogreat a fi t, whenas the learned Legate conftrainedyou to it; which furely he would not have doneif your former oninions be not erroneous ? No,good Francis, the devil befets thee ; let not thegrievoufnefs of any fin amaze thee.You fay right, laid Spira, the devil hath pof-fessed me, and GoD hath left me to his power;for I find I can neither believe the golpel, nortrull in God's mercy. I have finned againlt theHoly Ghoft, and God, by his immutable decree,hath bsund me over to perpetual punifhmeot,without any hopes of pardon! It is true, thegreatness of fins, not the multitude of them,bind God’s mercy ; all thofe fins that in theformer part of my life I have committed, thendid not fo nntch trouble me ; for I trusted Godwould not lay them to my charge : bat now,having sinned against the Holy Ghost, God ha hTaken away from me all power of repentance,and brings all my fins to remembrance; and beingguilty of one, I am guilty of all: Amid th-sroforeit i» no matter whether mv fins be great or tmall,few or many ; they be fuch as Christ’s blood,nor God’s mercy belongs not to me ! — “ Godwill have mercy on wham he-Will have mercy,and whom he will he hardeneth.” i his it isthat gnaws mv heart, he hath hardened me!and I find that he daily move and more dothharden me ; and therefore I am out oi hope !! !1 tell you. there was never lach a monster asI am !—never was ariv man alive, inch a ipcftacleof exceeding misery i—L knew that mv justifies.-I i7 ] ,ii tios "w.es to be expected by Christ, and4 deifiedii wnd abjured it, to the end I might keep this frail| life from adversity, and my childrenfrom poverty,i'j and now behold how bitter this life is to me 1—j And God only knows, what (hall become of this.my family; but fore no good is like to betide it,! but wori’e and worfe, and fuch a ruin at length,i as one (lone (hall not be left upon another ! ! IBut why fhould you, laid Gribauldus, conceiti fa deeply of your fin, feeing you cannot but knowj that many have denied Christ, yet never fell into[j despair ? u But, laid Spira, I can fee no groundi; of comfort for Inch ; neither can I warrant them[ from God’s revenging hand, or that he will yeti! iuffer fuch to be in "peace; and btfides, thereiii will be a time of danger to ccme, and they (halijij be thoroughly tried; and if it were not io, yetp God is juft in making me an example to others,if and I cannot julUy complain. There is no puniflj-merit fo great but I have deserved it, for this, fo hainous an offence. 1 assure you, it is no! fraail matter to deny Christ, and yet it in more‘ordinary than commonly rnen d® conceive, cf;lit is not a denial made before a^Magidrate, as itus with me; for .as oft as a Chriftian doth dif-ilefnble the‘known truth, as often as he approvesof falfe v/orflup, by presenting himfeif at it..;ifo often as he doth things unworthy of his calling,lo often he, denies Cin ill. This did I, and amtherefore julUy pilnilhed for i rV\ ouv etlate, quoth, Gribauldus, is not fo'Iftrangfe as you make it. Job was ib far gone,‘that he complained God l;id -let him as a mark• •gainst him. And -David., that was a man nfterown heart, complained often that.Gi otad fdriaken him, and was become Ids enemy,i ei both received comfort again. ComfortI 18 ]yoQrfelf therefore, God will cone at ler.gtli,though he feem afar off.O brother, anfwered Splra, I bt-yeve all this;“ The devils believe and tremble !” But Davidwas ever tle&ed, and dearly beloved of God ;and tho’ he fell, yet God took not utterly awayhi* Hob Spirit, and therefore was heard whenhe prayed, “ Lord, take not thy holy Spiritfrom me !” But I run in another cafe, bein^-ever aceurfed from the prefence of God! —Neither can I pray as he did, becaufe his HolySpirit is quite gone, and cannot be recalled;and therefore I know I (hall live in continualhardnefs, fo long as I live. Oh ! that l mightfeel but the lead fenfe of the love . f God to me,tho’ but for one fmall moment, as I now feel hisheavy wrath, that burns like torment* of hellwithin me, and aifli&s my confcience with pangsunutterable ! Verily defperation is hell itfelf!Then Gribauldus faid,, I do verily believe,Spira, that God having fo feverely chaftised youin this life, corretleth you in mercy here, thatHe may fpare you hereafter ; and that He bs.th•mercy fealcd up for you in time to come.Nay, faid Spira, hence do I know that I ama reprobate, beesufe he afilifleth me with hsrd-nefs of heart. O that my body had fuffered allmv life long, fo that he would be pleased to toleafe my foul, and ease my conscience, this “myburdened and oppres.ed conscience !Gribauldus heing willing !o ease his mindfrom the continual meditation cf his fins; as alsoto found Him how for the present he llocd afiVc-1ted to the Romifli Church, alktd him what hethought became of thh fouls of men, after theydeparted out of the body? To which Spiraanswered: “ Altho1 this be not cbarly revealedI 'V' - vr. ■■■'r - c *9 ]n Scrip*«re, yet I verily believe, that the foulsf the elect go presently to the kingdom of glory,:jnd nor that vhey fleep tn the body, as fome doimagine.” Very well, faid ene Handing by, w hy; o the Scriptures then fay, I Sam. v. 9. that Conrings down to hell, and raiseth up? Seeing itiannot be meant c£ the Hate of the foul after' eath, which, as thou Xayest, either goeth to\ eaven without change, or to hell without re-: emptier.; it mull be underftood of the ftate of1 he foul in this life, like that wherein thou artt present. And oftentimes we fee, that Godiffers men to fall into the jaws of despair, andet raiseth them up again : And therefore de-*)air not, bat hope ; it (hall be even thus with: hee in his good tint?.This is the work, quoth Spira, this i* the"labour! For, I tell you, when I at Venice e.id: rft abjure my profession, and fo, as it were,ifirew'an indenture, the Spirit of Gen often ad-linoniflied me. And when at Cit^della, I did,j s it were, fet my feal; the Spirit of God often,i uggested to me,“Do not write!—Do net feal!”t et resisted I the Holy Ghost, and did both.—i knd at that very present I did evidently feelhi wound in my very will. So, altho’ I can fay,I wouid believe, yet I cannot fay, I will believe.sod hath dnied me the power of will; and itefalls me in this my Hate, as one that is fad intons, and his friends coming to fee him, do pityis ftate, and perfuade him to (hake off his fetters,nd come out of his bonus, which, God know's,: e would fain do, but cannot. This is my veryase ; yeu persuade me to believe ; how fain''ould 1 do it, but cannot. O now I cannot! —Then violently grasping his hands together, andailing himself up, Behold! fan) he, lam ttrorg,/[ 20,]ytt 'by liule arid little I decay attd contuftte.^My fervants would fain preserve this my wearylife, but at length the will cf God must be cone,and I fhah perish miserably, as I deserve !—Rejoice, ye righteous, in the Lord ! — Blessedare you whose hearts the Lord hath mollified! —11ren, after fome pause, he went on.I earnestly desire to pray to God '.yith mvheart, yet I cannot! — I fee my damnation, andI know my remedy is only in Christ, yet I can¬not fet myself to take hoid of it.—Such are thepunishments of the damned; they repent of' t!ie loss of heaven, but they cannot mend theirways. — As he was thus fpeaking, he observeddi vers flies that came about him, and lighted on Ihim : Behold! faid he, now alro Beelzebub comesto his banquet ; you fhall ihortly fee my eEd ! .and in me, an example to many, of the justiceand judgment of God !About this time came in two Bishops, withdivers Scholars of the University, one of them :Paul us V-ergerius. who having observed Spira |more than any other, being continaaRy convers¬ant w ith him, told him. That his Bate was inch, |as rather Rood in need of prayer than advice; - j.and therefore desired him to pray with him in .the Lord’s prayer. Spira consented, and hebegan in the following ntaimer.“ Our Father vhic art in heaven.”But .Spira, -breaking forth into tears, Bopped.And they faid to- him, It is c ell, your grief isa goad iign. — I bewail, laid Spira, my n.issn , |for I perceive 1 am forsaken of God, and cannot !j ,call to him from mv heart, as T war. wont to do.Yet let us'go on, faid Verger jus.u Thv kingdome come.”X[ *1 ]O Lord, faid Spira, bring me alfo into thi*kingdem ; I befeech thee (hut,me not out.j| Give us this aay our daily bread.”0 Lord, added he, I have enough, and abund¬ance to feed this carcase of mine, but there isanother bread ; I humbly beg the bread of thygrace, without which, I aui but a dead man.u Lead us not into temptation.”Seeing, Lord, that 1 am brought into tempta¬tion, help me, Lord, that I may escape. Thej enemy hath overcome, help me, I beseech thee,I to overcome this cruel tyrant.The»e things he fpake with a mournful voice,the tears trickling down abundantly, and express¬ing fuch afL&ion and passion, as filled all present' v nh grief and compunction.Then-they faid to him, Sir, you know thatj none call Christ Jesus, the Lord, but by theHoly Ghost; you must therefore think of your-felf according to that foft aflfi&ion which vouexpress iU your prayers ; inferring thereby,that God hath nor wholly cart you eff, or be-,reaved you of his Spirit utterly.1 perceive laid Spira, that I call to him toi my eternal damnation I For I tell you again,it is a new and unheal'd of example, that youI find in me. If Judas, faid they, had but out-livedhi* day*, which by nature he might have done,• he might have repented; and Christ would havereceived bim to mercy ; and yet he finned mostgrievously against hi* Master which did foesteem him as to honour him W’ith the dignityof an apostie ; and did maintain and feed him.Sp'na answered: Christ did also feed andhonour me; neither is my fault one jot lessthan that of his ; because it is no more honourto be personally present with Chrift in theflelh,r, - v[ 22 ]than to be in bis presence by the illuminationof his holy Spirit. Befides, Judas could neverhave repented, how long foever he had lived;for grace was quite taken from him, as it isnow with me 1O Spira, faid they, you know you are ina fpiritual desertion; you must therefore notbelieve what Satan fuggests : He was ever a liarfrom the beginning, and a mere impostor, andwill cast a th*usand lying fancies into your mind,to beguile you withal; you must rather believethose whom vou judge to be in a good date, andmore able to discern of you than yourself.—Believe us, and we tell you, that God will bemerciful unto you.. There is the knot! faid Spira. Would Icould believe, but I cannot.Then he began to reckon up what fearfuldreams and visions he was continually troubledwith ! That he faw the devils come flockinginto the chamber and about hi* bed, terrifyinghim with tlrange noises ! That those were rotfancies, but that he knew them as really as theby-sta ders. And that besides these outwarcterrors, he felt continually a racking torturein his mind, and a continual gnawing of his confeience, being the very pangs of the damned.Cast away these fancies, faid Gribauldusthese are but illusions j humble yourself in thipresence of God, and praise him.“ The dead praise not the Lord, faid he, nothey that go dov.n to the'pit,” We that aidrowned in despair, are dead, and already gwrdown into the pit. What hell can be wonthan desperation, or what greater punishmentThe gnawing worm! unquenchable fire! horroconfusion! and, which is worse than all, despC 23 ]II ra:inn itsel^continually torments rile! And nowI count my present ftate worse than if my foul,! feparated from my body, were with Judas, andi the rest of ;he damned l and therefore now’ de-| fire rather'*to be there, than to live in the body !They perceiving but fmail efFafls of all their| labour, but rather that he grew worse ; for theavoiding of a concourse of people (for every dayi ieldom fewer than twenty continued with him)! and to flop the course of fame, which was con-; tinually blown abroad of him, they consulted to: carry him back again into his own country:1 And t-hcse of his friends that came to comfort||i him, began to take their last leave of him.—1 Vergerius, among the rest, required, That attheir parting they might pray together with-iiim.i Spira consented hardly, and as unwillingly per-: formed : u For, faid he, my heart is estrangedi from God ; I cannot call him Father from myI heartj all good motions are quite gone; mylj heart is full of malediction, hatred, and blal’-j phemy against God 1 I find I grow more andj more hardened in hear , and cannot stop myself.Your prayers for melhall turn to your own profit,I they cannot do me any good.”Vergerius then came to take his leave of him ;■whom Spira embracing, faid, Although I knowthat nothing can bring any benefit to me a repro-| bate, but that every thing Ifcall tend to my deepercondemnation ; yet I give you most hearty thanksfor your kind offices of love and good-will ; andthe Lord return it unto you, with 3 plentifulincrease of all ?ood.”. I w[ 24 ]The next dav being brought down for his in¬tended journey, by the way, looking round abouthim, with a ghastly look, he 1'aw a knife lyingOn a table, to which he running nattily, (hatchedhold of it, as intending to do himseif mischiefbut his friends laving hold of him, (topped hintin his purpose. Whereupon, with indignation,he faid, I know God will not have mercy on me.Thus went he homewards, often faying, Thathe envied the condition of Cain and Judas.He lay about eight wecTs in this condition,in a continual burning, neither deliring, nor re¬ceiving any thing but by force, and that w ithoutdigestion, fo fpent, that he appeared a perfectfkeleton, nothing appearing but linews and bones,vehemently raging for drink ; ever pining, yetfearful for living long ; dreading hell, yet covet¬ing death, in a continual torment, yet his owntormentor. And thus consuming himself w ithgrief and horror, impatience and despair, likea living man in hell, he represented an extra¬ordinary example of the justice and power ofGod, in punilhing apoiiacy.And thus, within a few days after his arrivalat his own home, he departed this life.From this we ought to remember, that lecretthings belong unto the Lord our God : and thatthat those w ho put their trust in himfliail neverbe confounded: For mercy hath he ever j andhis grace faileth never,”FINIS.Falkirk—T. Johnston, Printer.