A COPY OF ALately foxmci under a wall at Paris,with Mr H vWlu-i’a Lettcii,Copied from a Manufcnpf.Lacy's Singular Prophecy,Concernin'^ the. FRENCH REVi LUTION,LACOi ’S PKE1 ACE, ?nd a1 PROPHi CY,i'Found in the Sepulchre, x)f Rilhop CriftiajiusAgeda, wh?) died 1204, Ptediding dieprelept C:iianrities in France '\ .. ' * J /’ /'- P U :V BARfritted for and fr.ld b" O MIL! ER rt yihrf? Shrp tMtfhe'had, a v?rien < ♦ S'* ?)1 H.iftorits, Sse-mcns 6.a. CautciidlBriBol]ad», Chi’d: er a Books and Pi<a«tjc*.A COPY OF AR E M ARK A OLE PROPHECY,-8.ELATIVETO THESE PRESENT TIMES,Lately Found under a Wall in FAR IS.i. Thtflliionians, chap.iv. 20. 27.'VER ford as I know you art of whai isI Curiovs, I Send \cu a Copy oi a remhr-k.iOic Prophetv lately found m Paris, and‘tranf-4muted from a Gentleman there, to his Fiiendin London, who writes that it was engravedon a flag done of two yards iqrare in He¬brew Chara&ers, and very elegantly inluclwith Gold. It is fuppoftd to have ■atanear 600 years tinder an old wall, takendown by order of the late King of France,-to be rebuilt; on removing the rt.i l dh Homethe Toumiauon this Hone was diicuvti' o.41 In the year 1790, Thete will be a Re-•bdlion-againft the French Ring, ant! wrentin. p elent Pope dies there will be no otherckco.d.In 1791, There will be a War amongftn an) tv, i.t European powers a gain It Prance.>n 1732, More of the Cmiliian Powersengaged in the War.in 1702. The War increaies throughEhrepe.1( 3 )if *In 1794, There will be link or no formof rchgU'i. obfervid in France.In 17- s, 1 here will be a ckftruchve di-vificn amor-gft ih‘e powers of E rrpe.! In 1796, There will be a great lluughterand nuich blood fired b} land and fea.In 1797, There will apf - ar a Gog andMagog ■f 'ha will make war againft all nad-bns in tin World.In 1798, There will be a great delbrvic-j:ion that wnli thin the inhabitants ot theEarth.ir 1799 W ill come a defeendant of Davidiikh' w 1 perform foch acts of Grace frt m,|he power derived f t m almigbr^ God, as todefiioy Gog and Magog, up.d will caofe,L. pt, ^8 In 1800, 1 ne rtmnarv ..of all Na-.x xv i. ?, nons, to be of one Religion, and^,un2j‘ no more Wat amongft men who willird Pain, be forever after in bonds of friend-|xxxv • 9- flup, Fquahty * and unfeigned loveCoward God and one another *”—Amen.f-      I f By Gog snd Magog;, I appri.hcnd we may un-li|< raivlth ^pen and feeret enemies of evan elical'ib r y and quality, or of genuine Religion. Pfcafeo meditate once a day on James i. 16. 27. 25. 2 Cor.hi. >3 4. and Numbers 1. 32. ** bisnot to be ihougfct'Chrifnamtjr bringsIn Equality al.vLradt frorn Rule,ij-)! W’’i!e ihe coirr-fts alike SufcjeAs and Kings, i■ ideate and Icve, fhcttly govciH her Softoo),L ’ " ' ' ' ■ AeSt mV / , i-( 4 )Permit me to allure you that I heard itfrom a man of very ftridt veracity and ho*' nour, who is expert at Hebrew and in whom .1 can re'y for the truth of the ciicumftance, ’as it predicts a moft gioricus and univerfafRerolution in 1800, I heartily wifh to con¬gratulate you on the welcome news, I doexpedt great changes will take place heretthe Millenium will foon come, 1 have beeri,long fatisfted in my own mind; may yotand I, prepare for it O ! ma\ we. really liveto fee the really illuftrious defeendant allud¬ed to, who, if this be true, c uft be r.o\ralive, paft infancy, pre bably in Europe,perhap' in England, is the fintere wilh 0Sift, |Your affectionate Friend, k ServantR. FUWES.lACY’s S1NGI LAR PROPHECY,■' " d' ■ ■ ’ -JCOKCERNjKGTHE FRENCH REVOLUTION.*LSIR,..AMONG the various predictions cone- rnimg the late revolution in f iance, I have na[feen any which 1 think more (biking thau* This and what fellow?, are takei; frowthe Cor i^jtrtor’s Maga2ajt#, 1793,vvluit is to be met with in pige 40, 41, ancf42, of the fecond part of a book entitled‘ Warnings of the Eternal Spirit, by theirsouth of his feiv*~:t John, firnamed Lacy.,,London, printed for B. Bragg at the Blackilaveo in Paternoftcr Row 1707. Thq bookton fids of three parts.i a.ri, Sir, your obedient fefvant,. SEI^EX.FRENCH.Come, Monfieur, Monfieur, Monfituf,j^Quis, le Blafphemateur; Ja viens a vansnarler, O Grand Roi. Qni elt ce que tu esri’oltron qui eil te que tu es ? que tu t’esrante d’une maniere fi(fuperbe) eontre Moi,i contre mes chcrs Safaris. Et ces panvresfenfans, que tu crois avoir detruits, dansnon Roiaume s’eleveront, avec grand etat,n. non Apointement. Miferable ! Tes Sujetse contemneront. Oui; je t’ expoferai r|.e te terai paroitre comme un foible Vermif-~au. Tu n’es pas digne de te pfomener,omme un Homme (la) Face au Ciel (con-ire lequel tu as combatu). Tu feras abatu,|iiferable que tu es; car je fuis le Roi des|lois, & non pas tot. Le Diable te toar-tpeatera avant ta Mort. Je lui donnerai(Lonimifiion de te tourrnenter, dans ta Con-pence, avec une horreur (telle) que tonslies Courtilans le yerront. Je me glorifierai: ir toi. Je detruirai les images, que tu asnieces de toi mcme, <k tes Statues. Tcsml.irrab.lcs Court;fans, cui t’adoreat, plusqi;Vs ne font moi, toutG !a Cour de Fiance,je kur ferai fentlr leur Abomination, rieetre forte; Je ne la pui: f!ns ibufrii-, Quicc Verfaiiles, que tu as f.o. pour !a Gioire clton Nom, k le me to .ti a terre; & tomes vos.infokates Inicriptions, Figures, Pei.nuresabominables. Et Paris, Paris, cette Viikimperiale, je 1’ affligerai rentblement. Oui,-fj’ affitgerai Ja Famille Roiale. je vengeraiiies Iniquitez du Roi lur les Petit Fils. Out;cui; je te vifiterai Lion. Oai; oui; -ec a prez^ue je t’aurat fouette, i! y aura grande Gioirea toi Lion. Et Touloufe, je te r « lirai en.Cendres; Oui; oui; toi qui es (uue) Villaabominable, Vide de M .urtriers. Et pourtoi, Bourdeaux, je te ferai favorable. Ne-t'nmoins il faut que je re coarieaufli; maistn feras diftingue. Ailons, a!ions; Je fuisen Campagne, & je fuis plus terrible. Je icferai connoitre que ce nefb paS le Due deMarlborough: ce neftpas le Prince Eugene,qui a'a te faire trembler:,C’eft moi d’enhaut,toi Tyran. Tu pen feras que I’Enfer eltbeaucoup plus favorable, que ton proprejPalais ne te fera. Louis, Louis le Grand !jil ne reftcra pas une.de ies infenprions d’ in'-folenceala France; car tu es indigne. Satan.'je Diable, n’aura pas phis de nuleie, q ic•je te donnerai. (Tune feras pas) Prim::dans PEnter. Les Diubles te foueterontiiIts te traiteront eomme un chetif vdain.;CJLJL.Oni; Boucher. Tu ne feras pas Roi lon^ie ri?. L.es Diables rie reconnoitront pointroutes les pretenfions, que tuavances au-j| iouid’hui. Oui; oui; ils te preparent unf Jieu. Out; oni; ils te (le) preparent. Oui;| oni; ils re mettront daht le Pilory, afin quei jtous 1'es Diable, & q run Milli des rVrnes,j.| qui t’ont aveuglement fervi fur la terre, feill moquent de toi. Car tu t’es toujours mcrquej; dc moi; E.t c’eft a moi a juger les Princ ;s,j;l cortsme les Pauvres. Voila la belle Ddtinc-Ition, que je te prepare. Amfi 1’A. igleterrefera moins vifiiee de rrres'Jugemens que la: France, qu’tl foit traduit en Anglois; lej mot Poltron toujours je nieme.ENGL It H.ComeMonfieur, Monfieur, fvlon(ieur,Lfewisthe Blafphemer ; I come to fpeak to you, Ogreat king. Who art thou, Poltroon ? whoart thou that thou haft boafted thyfelf after fo(haughty)amanner againft tneandagainft mydear children? and thofe poor children, jvhonithou thinkeft to have dettroyed in thy king-|i dom, flaall rile up in great fplendor af myappointment. “ Wretched ! thy fubiedsfhall contemn thee:” yes, 1 will expofe thee;1 will make the^ appear a weak woim.Thou art not worthy to walk as a man withthy face ered to heaven, agdnft which thouhaft fought. Thou fhait be call down, thou( } ■)wrerch: for r '■;) the king of kings, ansi nottuou. The Devil fhall torment thee, beforeihou theft. 1 will give him com million tolormejit thee, in thy confcience, with filchhorror, that all thy courtiers fhall fee ir. Iwill glorify myfelf upon thee. I will de-llroy thofe ytages, which thou haft fet up |of thyfelf, and thy ftatues. Thy mile table-courtiers, who adore thee more than thev Iclo me.” All the court of France, I will imake them feel their abomination in that |kind. I can bear with it no longer. Yes; 1:that Veifailles, which thou haft made for |ihe glory of thy name, I will throw it to the Iground, and all your infolent inferiptions,Jignres, abominable pictures. And Paris,Paris, that imperial city, I will afflidt itdreadfully. Yes; 1 will afflitt the RoyalFamily. I will avenge the iniquities of theking, upon his grand children. Yes; yes,1 will villi'thee O Lyons. Yes; yes, afterj have fcourged thee, there (hall .be greatglory to thee O Lyons. And thou Thploufe,1 will reduce thee to allies yes; yes, thouthat art adeteftable city, a city of murderers. ,1And as for rhee Bourdeaux, I will be favou-j-ble to thee: neverthelefs 1 muft chaftifethee alfo; but thou (halt be diftinguithed, HCome on, come on: I have taken the field,and lam more dreadful. I will make theeknow, that it is not the Duke of Marlbo-Vo ugh; it is not Prince Eugene, who is tomake the tremble, it is I rjtyfelf from above,0 then tyrant. -Thou wilt think hill is morefavourable than thy own palace will be t®thee. <e Lewis, Lewis the Great! there(hall remain none of his infolent infcriptionsin France for thou- art unworthy. Satanthe Devil, (ball have no more mifery, thaa1 will give thee. Thou (halt not be a princein hell. The devils (hall lalh thee. They(ball deal with thee, as with a pitiful (coun-drel. Yes, thou butcher; thou (halt not longbe a king. The devib (halt not own altthofe pretcnfions, which thou doth new fetforth. Yes; yes; they do prepare a placefor thee. Yes; yes; they prepare it for thee.Yes; yes; they will put thee in the pillory,that all the devils, and a million of fouls thathave blindly Li ved thee upon the earth mayflout thee; for thou haft ever fet me atnought; and to me it belongs to judge prin¬ces, as well as the poor. -Lo this is the finediftindtion ! prepare for thee. Thus (ballEngland be lefs vihted with my judgmentsthan France. Let this be tranflited intoEnglifh; the word Poltroon ftill the fame.LACY S PREFACE.Having from November laft, to the be¬ginning of bebruary following, been pre¬lent divers times at the ecftafte of Mr Mart¬en, Mr. Fnge, and Mr. Cavalier, 1 can fay,( TO )t’nat tl'cr? neitntions did never me.V.e anyiiTjprrfr n upon iriy mind or ima^inarion,fuch aj- to j 'onu-’e an imitation ol then'., oreven an inclination to it For the (pace ofat ieafi: c ishtne.n days before mine came uponme, 1 had fee n none of them; and minewere fo entireiy different from any of theirs,tba- it is altogether unlikclv that the forceof ima-cdnation (as fome without due conn-deration have fanried) cou’d produce them.The fuff fymptom of the emotions on mybody, furprized me in the mffant of awak¬ing, on the firff day of March, which wasthe fame morning on which I delivered tothe printer, the cry from the defart-, thofe agi¬tations, in a veiv valtous manner, and haui-ly to be defciibc-d, continued more or lefst'^on me-unto the 12th day of June, before1 v w ord was put into my mouth, I can faypQiit’velv, that ! never once expeded or de-iired to have them, before 1 v.vs actuallyirized with ihem; but as they canre nor ofntv'vvll oi delirt-, fo 1 know they came inc- *;isequence and .anfwer of my frequentprayers, thaj God would guide me arightjn my opinion and Judgement of that awfulfubject of infpiration among the Ccvennois,whereof 1 had been then and for two monthsbefore, preparing the a hove fa id printed rela¬tion oi account..The bodily impreffions were gradually en-creafing upon me, tiii the effect or ratherPS( II )hTucof them was produced, to wit, theopea-! ing, of my mouth to fpeak.They began by a preternatural courfe ofbreathing; then my head came to be agi¬tated or ihaken violently and forcibly, andwith a very quick motion horizontally, or1 from fide to tide: then my ,ftoma--h hadtwitches, nor much, unlike an hiccup, af-i terwards my hands and arms were vie •entlyfliaken, ar length a druggie or labouring Litl i the wind-pipe, and fometimes a fort of catch¬ing or twitches all over my body; and forabout a week before my fpeaking, l obferv-rj ed my tongue was now and then moved ia-nvoluntarily, as verealfomy lips, my mouth,fl and jaw feverally; all vhich preparation of1:the bodily organs 1 found attended with ajcconftant elevation of my foul to God; theI mind being unaccounrably caft into a fiametOi (piritual joy, holy contempt of all thingsjin the world, and inceflant prayer, far moreearned; and intent than what 1 had ever foundbefore. My fecret'prayers were infeparablyijattended with the increase of thofe fyrtip-toms, and during all this time, 1 fearchedthe feriptures carefully for my direction, andheedfully conddered all the advice given mecby friends.After fo much care, and fear of being de¬luded, 1 am the better affined, and do af¬firm without the lead; doubt, that my agi¬tations and words in the ecfiafte, are pto-‘^eacgall iii i, i'm u', •-*- -*'-4(' 12 )duced by a fuperior agent, and arc indopendent of me any further, than that 1 dono', nor dare not oppofe, but do remain al¬together paffive. My mind at thofe timesconi, >ues cleat and fedate ; during which-/ ;m) fear and carrion makes me uau always,till'the tongue be moved by the fuperiouras. the voluntary'prime mover and agent,that (peak; and oftentimes I know not thelenfe, till the words are (poken, and fo heardby me as by other perfons prefent: nor didI mjifelf write thofe Englifh avoids whichare contained in the warning of the 12th ofJuly.; but my tingcis were forcibly movedto uo it, my eves being then dole Jhtit, andJ under, the agitations; therefore I utterlydeny mylelf lo be the framer either of theagitations, or of the voice; I have moreoverthrice experienced atone, or manner in the tvoice itlelf, which I am well alYujei 1 am noways capable of, in rnymaturai flare.1 have great reafon to blefs God for hav¬ing had a .virtuous education, and for the 1grace that he has lince vouchfafed me, ne- 1ver to allow mylelf to live in known fin, nor ideliberately or .prefumptuoufly to commie1any oqe fuch ad; 1 have therefore the more*confidence that God does no^ now deliver!!:me up.to fo horrid a dd^fion, as the volun-jpo er: nor does any impulfe alonewith me therein; fo that it is no longerd.fary fpeaking, of myldf, in his perfonwould be; and when 1 believe the wiiluldo«in his perfon (ing thereof would be fuch a hen tons crimeas would delerve that 1 fhould be ftr.xkdown inftantly into hell: it is r, great com¬fort to nje (and the means of my affurancethat 1 am no longer in my natural liberty ofthought and fpeech at fuch times) that myimitations generally hold me a quarter of anhour before 1 fpeak; which time is generallyemployed in mental prayer and ads of refig-.hation, without the lead: previous thoughtnor the moft part, of what at length is Ipo-icen, though fometimes indeed fome fewwords may be reprefen ted to my intelledperhaps a minute before. 1 know afluredly,chat no trouble of mind, nor melancholy,nor a propoffdTion of prophetical fchemes,drew me into the (late that 1 am under : 1rrnjoy at this time, through mercy, a per fed.u, 1th, without any pain, ficknefs, or w-eak-rnels whatfeever, or any fort of difcfder pro¬ceeding from tire frequent ecflatic agitr-'.ions;■1 deep ordinarily (even hours in twentyIfour; l have a good appetite and digeftion;!md 1 appeal to all perfons with whom 1 con-rerfe about my n6celfary affai’.s, and to fuchOther company as does drily occur tome,}vh ether lam other."ife i: v;de. myfeif, than|only to God.As to rhy obierv*tton of the Lordh-day,t has pleaied God to vouch fate me his gra¬cious vifits more frequently and f lemnlyon thole days than on others; 1 rhuchorewitV, joy and comfort wait for them; a voice( H )that comes to me frequently in my clofet, a?well as before company, which upon all theenquiry, reafoning, caution, fear, and deli¬beration that 1 afn capable of, 1 do firmlybelieve to be from Gocl; consequently 1 darenot difobey, hide, or ftifle, under^dread olthereby charging my confidence with a loadof guilt and horror unSupportable; though a'the fame time 1 am fenfible what numerou:'reproaches, what lofs, what difficulties, whathazards, what trouble, wha: • labour, whatclamours and contempt, the owning my feltto be infrared, has done, does'and will en¬gage me in; 1 would not furely have unne-ceflarily brought myfelf under any of thefe.nor could 1 now', by my own proper Strength,bear up under them: but the inward joy that1 have from the great comforter, has fit.rnthe beginning fupported me, and 1.trull itwill continue fo to do, and make me in hisdue time triumphant over all.The followina difeourfes being read to m«immediately after they were pronounced,and the divers originals of them collated andgathered into one, before many w:-tne{les,(that is. of Such * f them as were not uttered >in the prefence of one fingle perfon only) i[did fign the fame, being able, from the aidof a tenacious memory, lo diftinelly to re-tcolledl myfelf, as that 1 am fatished.- there iiinothing in them, but what come from mymouth wV.der the influence above mentioned!She perfons who wrote thefe clifeoutles (the( IS )'\ letter of wl-ofe names is at tlie head ofpry one of them refpedfively) did a!fo hgn!‘ compleated original, and are leady t®;ke oatli, if defired, that the fame wasifhfully taken.T<' tuch as may take offence, at the fub-t matter .therein contained, 1 do repeat itn the prefence of God, that 1 am not anyys the author of it; and could 1 look uponother ban the very council of God,- or; iht of its being (o, it would be an.incx-fnibie grief t- me, to be a meffenger.ill tid;ngs to my native country, which: man loves better: but if it be the refultii Heaven’s determination, which ho*ne ise to controul; a forewarning thereof islibtlefs to be efleemed a great rnercy; 1I fatitfied, no man is able to charge uponIff If, no nor upon any of our companions,' fort of dilaffedtion to the happy govern-I ntof this ifland; and 1 do further declare,ft as to what 1 do either know qr havekrd, there never has been uttered in ecf-|e, or predicted, anything of evil lobe-the pevfbn of her gracious majeOy (ase perfons have malicioufly given out); on| contrary, bleffmgs ar- therein clerr.ly in¬itiated to attend her. 1 have been io care-to obviate, as muph as poffible, all iufliputation of combination or dtfign on my.t, that 1 never confuked any man, eitherthe publifhing the Cry fro?n the Defart, n> rmy preiace to the fame, nor even in this( 16 )my declaration; 1 have no ill will toany ti;in particular, nor, to any order of mengeneral: nor ever did imbibe any ncons or principles againft the clergy ; whaiver therefore theie infpired difcourfescontain in them, that mav be conffrued :vere upon that order, (could not be, an*know) was not dictated by any previous o :nion, or incident retention of mine, as Ifearcher of all hearts well knows.1 had four elder brothers, who had earof them the happirvefs of academical euu* :tion, two at Pembl'okelrall, and two ;Magrbalen college in Cambrige: but asmy felt, it it well known among my relatkand friends, that 1 came from WaldenEflex to London, in the year 1680 beiithen fixteen years of age, having learnedfarther at fchoo.l than Virgil, Horace, aa little of the Greek Grammar: for a yafter, or ther abouts, 1 continued to refitch Latin books av 1 brought out of tcountry with me; but my employment 1 -which 1 was put out by my parents, fa :turning my thoughts another way, 1 ne*fince that time read more than a leaf or taccuLntally of that language; and even tLitYejf moflly as it may have come in my \vin reading an Englilh book: except tlabout twenty years agone, 1 attempted Iread Strada de Be.lo Belgico, and findtlmyfdfunable to underftand it, after hav&gone on in it ^hout forty leaves in one In«red and twenty, Maid it by; whether t- - _ - a. V ^VV V ^CV -y»- V /^. '( 17 )following,Ttin of the infpirattons herein,)uid be’ fitrniihed by me from fuch imua-on or progrefs therein as 1 have here given, 1 account of; or whether of the many thou-ijnds in London in like circumftance, therele any that can perlorm it, 1 leave others tomfs their fentiments upon: as to myfelf, 1.mow that 1 do not fo much as underhandj,e Enghlh of many vvordi of them (but as;e inspiration itfelf does at the time teache inwardly the fenfe of them) nor do 1 atl know the true conjugations, and even, t, when out of the ecftafiex I am utterly;icapable of compofing anything of thatjnd, though upon the utmoft dehberationId thought; whereas every one of the laid’fcourfes came from me, without permedr-lion, and without being able to guefs inmat Janguage the fpirit would then fpeakr my mouth, till the very utterance; andjllh concurring agitations of head and body|| before deferibed, and which might be fuf-aient to confound the fenfe of any preme-lated difeourfe of the moft able or learned:ad. In like manner there are hundreds1 this city who can attefl, that the Frenchlipeak at other times, is far fhort of whatIhere delivered in that language. TheJ eek words mentioned in fome of thefedil-irfes, came likewife from my mouth, and: lenle ot them was’clearly imprelled upon, in the moment of pronouncing; thoughwords I othetwife underftood not; there( is )eccur a!(o, feme phrdes and peculTariries «expreflion in the Englilh, cvhich 1 njv«read, heard, or thought ot (to he beli'-i'my knowledge) till they were uttered,' anmvfelf, like the other auditors, receivethem; all which in dances of language,can look upon as no other than the earne 1of a much greater diffulion upon me m th:kind, of which l had a promile from tilHoly Spirit by the month of other perfon;before ever I had igoke in any other lan ¬guage than Englilh. In like manner 1 d :fully ex pelt the gift of healing, and fever,other gracious promifes which have bee'made to me by the fpirit of truth, (whicpro ni'es are made to feveral other inlpirepe.clons aifo, and to home who are not yinlpued.1 have no rag ofrighteoufnefs pleadable;the light of God, but do depend entirely cthat of our Saviour to cover me; 1 belie’there is a multitude in this kingdom, hob 1than 1; and as tor feveral reafons I never epeeled a ditlingiulhment of this kind, fo snot l think that God has fele&ed me, for ■ny thing in myfelf; but the good hope l hibefore, of eternal Hie through the grace ■God in Jefus Chrilt, is the lyne now. I anothing, and pretend to nothing out of e1:tali-;, to that it is no longer 1 tnyleif: 1 dme not to be thought the better of by othernor do l of my fell; but 1 do believe tliat apetfon who was convinced he had icceivv v .^yrw ^cv 'v». v •v' _^>.. ^ 19 ^[-fee like c®mmiffion, would lie under a ne-peffi'y ra perfr-’-m it, or be expofed to dread-}ul woes on the ne^ledt thereof.There are already home perfons of our ownoation who have the fy nap to ms ppoaratorywho wit! probablyt or thpronhetic ouice.receive (honly the completion of the n inI he overruling their organs of fpcech : andtome there are of them whofe mouths arejilready opened; one of whom has vitions,(or the moT part, in eeftafie: 1 can attefl forinyfelf, as manv others are ready to do, every|one for hirnfelf, that the infpired have tre-ijuendy declared to u'4 our thoughts andilrame of foul; and that particular i.nlurkesj)f our private prayers to God have been an¬swered from their mouths. Divers Soci-ninns have been convinced by this ■ difpen-iluion, to own and cpnfefs the Trinity ; and||!! that do attend it muft contefs it tends on-y and powerfully to famflification of life. 1Bo know that my prayprs have been inflant-j,y anfvered oy words pronounced by myown mouth, and this, feveral times fince 1lave been thus vifited.a This million brings no new doctrine with,t, nor advances any thing diflonant from|h'e fcriptures; the calling of the Jews andulnefs of the Gentiles, mav according tohem be expected, by a pouring out of thepint from on high; and the firif fruits there->f in- the apofijcs days, implies, rather tlvmjxcitidei a harved. Judgmetus f om hea-umtem/mvcn being owned by the apoflle to attendthe prophecy of Joel to that effter, doesfhew that the accojmplifijnient thereot on theday of Pentecoft was not completed, becaufe •greated, Qi .11 ever come to be taught imme¬diately by the fpirit of God, they will noilneed other, intbactors: feppofing any ontl-then to be a true prophet, he is no way:!chargeable as acceflary to draw down theljudgments that the over ruling power oirGod foretells and denounces by him. Hu jm*!iation and religi ;ps fear will bed become}and that may, as to the public, mitigate,or even prevent the impending ftrok.es oiheaven, and without quell ion will perfonaliy hfecure thofe who are luitably wrought uponby the denunciation; and God grant the dif-l'appointment of Jonah be mine in particular:}on the other hand, it were to be wifhed.rthat Gh. hiians in (lead of caviling at ihelmellage at all adventures, and inflead oj[forming within themfelves conclnfions raih-ily, and conlulting with the world too muci't1for their opinion, would rather give them-lcfolves leave to enquire firft into the fev^rapmatters of fact necefli’.ry, with that heed ancrdeliberation which the nature of the thinabrecpiires ; and then laying alide ail prepolJ-leffions, would leek to the throne c*f gracq:with enlivened affections, for a participation'*;no unive fa! indgmentsdid concur witi) thafjjuncture: if mankind from the lead to thqthofe to. whom .fuel:- a meflage is delivered,}'( )ti tbcfe extraordinary fpiritual mefcies ner'e*-n promikd; to fee and try, if God will nottouchfafe, that way, his leal to the truthf this reveiation.Finally, 1 declare in the mod awful man¬ner, that 1 n-itl-er ever had or have, anylun whatfoever, in the proftflion 1 now make;.,he clergy may exerede their cenfures ct mejiS they think g«od; 1 have no dehgn to in-ade their oflice, or make mylelf rhe headf a ject, or do p;etend to a new fet cr prin-iples; 1 have here declarea my ea!i, anu liei'ko (l believe) lend me, muft determineWhether myft-lf, or they v ho feed at it bennder a delufion; 1 wilh and have prayed,jjjbat io fat as the truth, wudorn, and gloryd God can permit, the occa . of his gracesirromdtd, may flow upon us, without thejudgments; as to the deroro iatiohs - oronibis city and kingde m, th( ugh the time besiot yet diflinetjy eveaitd to me, \ t i have|i0 doubt, but that they will apparently pe-|in within a few months at furthefi, and asi.he divine wifdom dqes, by the u: certainty,s to the exact time, leave us to exj ecti-eni every day ; fo it is evident!' his delign-hat we fliould immediately take the wa+u-jpg, and trappy are they who do not wiltul-y leave theml^lves to be furpnfed, and bygardening their hearts, refule ail conviction>ut what their fenfes muft at length produce;cnce that n ay teimsnate in them own in.?-irievoable lofs.( 22 ;Tvverfince the words preceding were pOtinto i.v n'O'ith, 1 have Judged it a duty in- ,Gtimhem' on hie, both to God and my conn- ,try, to have them declared in the mold pu¬blic manner poffible, to the end all menmight oe alarmed, and make that ufe tothemfeivei'ot them, which tltei conioencesfhouid direct; 1 leave the words to (peak;themielves and their original.Iohn L ACY.i&I ,ondon July, i3. 1707.A li. A very fair -'opy of this Jmguiar beetis tn tot bands of the printer.COPY OF A PROPHECYF T/ND IN THE ^E.-\R 1667, ,In the Sepulchre of Bifhop Chrijtianus Age da,W o (ik'd in 1204.PrediHing the Prejent Calamities in France.SIR,OBSERVING in your laft number MrLacy's lingular prophecy, which is accounteel to be the mold exact predicttonol the Jaq •lingular events in Fr; „ce, and having em :in my poliefiion which 1 think more to thii1purpole, as it is for paft, prefent, and tocome, and thinking it may not £e unenter jtaming to your readers, 1 fhall give you at Iexact copy thereof, which is as follows:“ When thefe my prophecies lhall bfound, the Sun fhall Ihinc upon my nativ 1kingdom of Fiance, who at that umc lh •—  ( *3 )iall be uni red to the Lion, via. the Kin*-f England, and fiiall pluck many ter:hersyt of the Eagle’s wing, which fhaii then be1' her’giory, but will be of no duration, forI the c- ntury following it will prove to uerotL tleftructioh; for there w,,i be preatet!ding of blood by the pc, ple'of the Log.ipm; there will be wars and fury, whichjit left long; provinces diveited of thtir reo-e ;11;d kingdoms in c .moufflon; t:.anyong h. Ids, and no■ le houles, lliail be ruin-etl, and iheir cities a- ci towns (hull be Ls ra-: n by their mhabn.t .ts, and in divers placeseir ground lhaii lay untilled, and th. eall be great fLughrer of their nobility; theirm (ball bedaikened, and never Urine forth;oje; fo; Fiance fball be oefoiate, and iterad pei Ion deilrcytd; and .there (hall be;.ewh deceit and fraud among her inhabi-ou, f >i they (hall judge, and kill, one am>•itrr, whereupon ihallenfue the atprefaid greatJitfuron among tLie-kingdoms; and near ti)i>°tir-e“re 'E-.'il he great mutatiom and chan ires of k i.«,s1 ni' i s; foi r e right hard of tn< \v..o Id thalUearI; Ff» «!r,d ti e north ftiall pre\ail uj.on ihc- toiiiir.great r-art of ita y thall be dcioiate, but Veniced! be prefer , ed: R me Jfliail be hurned, and thejiedoni ucitroyed, and Britain lhalli u!e tiiat empire.;h°'e times, a mercurial hero, i fon of the Lienui i heiit the crown < f the Fleur d; lis by means•he kingdom of England. He Brail be a lover of:ice and juflice, and net Iwcrve from the lame; «nd|his means the nadons’ reiigions and laws {.hall haveiadmirabe change. When rhofo thinfs u me toHsi diere Aral] be a Lrm aii.uncc better she tleaL( 24 )3!rJ the Eaple, *cd they fhall have K?ed in peace ' ^twceii tljeaifclves a lonjr dmp. In thole limes, mona!|wearied witit wars, Ihall defire peace. And at! thtfeiny prophe'ejes, fha’I be fulfille d before the end of tlinineteenth century from the time of our Blefiki Stlvieur Chr'dl.”This prophecy was found in the year 1667, on tilt8th of Augutt, in the fepulchre of bifhop ChriliianUA^eda, \-ho died in the year 1204, on the fecond dSeptember. He was born at Paris, .tnno ima.' ndi*tenth of May. He was of the family of the Lot 1:4res, afterwards kings of France: and as this prepi eey was nefler fu'jy in print before. I think ir ,fit time to bi ing it forth in tile world. This pious \y\dwas buried in a ftpukbre in the chapel or theGhoft, near Paris; and his propbery, wriitrn cp iichn-enr, was put into a leaden <afe with hin , at|before thefe (kfu iFliens in France the .original wito he fetnin the heforementior cd chapel of theKjly Ohoft, From whence it was ex Ftly trunJlated 1a near relaficn ef your correfperdert’, who is 1101living, and will vouch the truth thereof.It will not he improper to n mark, that in the yes1672, or thereabout,!’rarce and Englard wa un;teJ’;a wa" with Ceruiany*, who in this prophet y bahucicd to by the Fagie, which is the firff paitjjthofe pred’clions, at which lime Fiaiice was in;|Pourifiling ftatc; the middle part is now fulfillih;and ti t iuiter parr is yet to come.No. 62. Ci m'.tcn Streef. Cierkenwel!. j* >r. thementbof March, 1671,-the war btgar: betwtE’V'J-nd ancl Holland;—Fiapce, £r.glan3, and the ElectorC tc.gm, t av:ng urtited in a league agalnft the Dutch. Piawat,corcludt<l in 1673. There was difturbarce betwrE* g!ar.d and Ge: many, nor do I belrcve there wa* a:;} S>tween Getmany and France during that period.' ■