CHEAP TRACTS No. 2,APenny-worth of Wit9CONSISTING OFCH DICE SAYINGS AND WHIMSICAX.INCIDENTS,SUITED TO PROMOTECheerfulness and Good Humour.DUNFERMLINE :FRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER.1828.liAPenny-worth of Wii.The captain of a West Indiainan wished to buya horse. After the purchase was made, thecaptain said, ‘ Well now the horse is mine, praytell me candidly whether he has any faults, andwhat are they ?’ ‘ What do you mean to do withhim ?’ said the other.’ Why, to take him tosea,’ answered the captain. ‘ Then I will be.candid,’ replied the dealer : he may go very wellat sea, but on laud he cannot go at all, or Iwould not have sold him.’A Cockney sportsman being out one dayamusing himself with shooting, happened to fire!through a hedge, on the other side of which wasa man, standing or leaning, no matter which.The shot passed through the man’s hat, butmissed the bird. ‘ Did you fire at me sir ?’he hastily asked. O, no, sir,’ said the shrewdsportsman, ‘ I never hit what I fire at.’During the visit of his Majesty George IV. ‘in Scotland, on the first levee-day at Holyrood-house, the king was dressed in full Highland3garb, and, from the crowded presentations,was stationed on the left side, and near the en¬trance of the room. Immediately opposite weresome of his suite, with several noblemen, andamongst them Marshal Beresford, in full courtdress, and splendidly garnished out in all hisforeign honours. A Glasgow magistrate, inmaking the entre, scarcely deigned to glanceat the familiar figure of his countryman, andpassing on to the gorgeous marshal, knelt andbent forwards, in that fine style of conciliatinghumility which conducted his countryman, SirPertinax, through so many lucrative promo¬tions. The marshal, to prevent any delay inthe ceremony, smiled, and waved his hand forthe kneeling *upplieant to pass on, and which hereadily, did, gladdened by the cheering smile ofthe greft man. Dining afterwards with anumerous party, and boasting of the graciouseceptiou he had experienced, he launched out in•apturous eulogy on the rich habiliments andscarlet epleadour of the royal personage. ‘ Scar¬let !J exclaimed his adjoining friend, ‘ why hisMajesty was dressed in tartan, and you, sir,must have mistaken the person.’ ‘ Hoot, awa,mon !’ returned the sapient justice ; ‘ think yeI am sic a gowk as no to ken a king fra a kiltedloon, who was naething else bnt a muckleHighland sergeant, placed as body-guard on kissacred majesty ?’In' the reign of Philip the Third of Sjaia,I two men were found guilty by the Inquisition.\IAs they were cairying them to execution, theking', who saw them from a balcony, could nothelp saying, ‘ There go two men, unhappyenough, to die for what they are persuaded of.’This speech t«ok air, and the Inquisitor cameto him, and told him it was necessary he shouldsubmit to some punishment for the (ff’ence hehad given the Holy Office. After some dis¬putes it was agreed, that the king should sufferhimself to be let blood a porringer full, and thatthe blood should be burnt by the executioner ;which was actually performed in the presence ofthe Grand Inquisitor.As a lame country schoolmaster was hobblingone morning upon two sticks to his noisy man¬sion, he was met by a nobleman, who inquiredhis name, and the means by which he procureda livelihood ? ‘ My name,’ answered he, * isR. T. and I am master of this parish.’ Thisanswer increased the curiosity of his lordship,and he desired to know how he was master ofthe parish ? ‘ I am,’ replied the pedagogue,‘ the master of the children of the parish ; thechildren are masters of their mothers 5 themothers are the rulers of the fathers ; andconsequently I am the master of the wholeparish.’ His lordship was pleased with thislogical reply, and made the schoolmaster apresent.Judge Rook, in going the western circuit,had a great stone thrown at his head j but,r.5from the circumstance of his stooping verymuch, it passed over him. ‘ You see,’ said heto his friends, ‘ that had I been an uprightjudge I might have been killed.”7« An English stock-jobt.*r, well knownupon ’Change as a man of unexampled parsi¬mony, although possessed of an immense for¬tune, one day met a very poor man, one of hisown relations. ‘ Come hither, George,’ saidthe miser, (do you know I have just now mademy will, and remembered you handsomely, myboy.” God bless you, brother,’ said the grate¬ful man, ‘ you will be rewarded for so charita¬ble an action, for you could not have thought ofa more distressed family.’ ‘ Are you, indeed,so very poor, George ?’ ‘ Sir, my family’s starv¬ing,’ said the man, almost crying. ‘ Hark yethen, George : if you will allow me a gooddiscount I will pay you immediately.” Weneed not add, that the terms were accepted,while they parted equally pleased with the bar¬gain they had concluded.8. The following singular circumstance oc¬curred on a Sunday, in the month of November,1810, in the church of Seaford. The clergyman,whilst publishing the banns, on coming to thenames of a pair of neighbouring rustics, was sud-denly surprised by an interruptioa from one ofthe congregation, who loudly bawled out, ‘ I for¬bid the wedding.Onbeingdesired to retire6to the vestry, he was asked if he was a relationof either of the parties ? ‘ No, no,’ repliedHodg-e, ‘ I am the bridegroom himself; but,having learned that Ciss has a tongue that, aftermarriage, will run faster than the clack of hermaster’s mill, Lam resolved to be off, so yourreverence may marry her yourself, if you please.’9. A lady of the name of King, who hadincreased her family annually for several years, wasat a party where the circumstance was told to avery'facetious gentleman. He soon found out theLady’s husband, and though unknown to him,thus accosted him : ‘ Why, sir, you are likeBonaparte ! The other, rather surprised, hasti¬ly exclaimed, ‘ How, so, sir ?’ ‘ Because,’ re¬plied the wit, ‘ you make a new king everyyear.’10. A surgeon being sent to a gentlemanwho had just received a slight wound in a duel,gave orders to his servant to go home with allpossible speed, and fetch a certain plaister. Thepatient, turning a little pale, said, ‘ Sir, I hopethere is no danger ?’ ‘ Yes, indeed is there,’answered the surgeon ; ‘ for if the fellow don’tmake haste, the wound will heal before he return.’11. A poor man was one day boasting ofhis acquaintance in early life with a certainnobleman. “ And did his lordship really eversee you, to speak to you ?’ asked the person to.7whom the boast had been made. ‘ He did, sir,both see me and speak to me, when I was only-a pot-boy.’ ‘And what did he say to you ?‘ Why, sir, I was running' across the way justi; as his lordship was passing, and I ran againsthim ; when he said to me,—Get out of the way,[ you little dirty rascal.’12. A gentleman, indisposed, and confinedto his bed, sent his servant to see what hour itwas by a sun-dial, which was fastened to a postin his garden. The servant was an Irishman,and being at a loes how to find it, thought hewss to pluck up the post; which he according¬ly did, and carried it to his master, with thesun-dial, saying ‘ Arrah, now look at it yourself:it is indeed all a mystery to me.’13. Mr. Rochead, of Inverleith, a man ofsome fortune in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh,was one day taking his ride, and being a personof no^ 8,mall consequence, he thought proper toshew it, by riding on the foot path. Meetinga farmer-looking man, he •rdered him imperious¬ly to get out of the way. ‘ Sir,’ said the other,I don’t understand this : I am upon the foot¬path, where I certainly have a right to walk.’‘ Do you know, sir,’ said Mr Rochead,’ towhom you spsak ?’ ‘ I do not, indeed.’ ‘ Sir,1 am Mr Rochead, of Inverleith.’ ‘ Well, sir,but that certainly does not entitle you to ride onthe foot-path, and drive a humble pedestrian offit.’ ‘ Why, sir, I am a trustee of this road.’8 .ft'you are, you are a very had one.’ ‘ Youare an impudent fallow. Who are you, sir ?’‘ I am George, Duke of Montague.’ It is al¬most needless to add, that the haughty laird ofInverleith, after a very awkward apology, wentoff into the main road.14. An American General was in companywhere there were some few Scotch. After sup¬per, when the wine was served up, the generalrose, and addressed the company in the followingwords : ‘ Gentlemen, I must inform you, thatwhen I get a little groggish, I have an absurdcustom of railing against the Scotch ; I hope nogentleman in company will take it amiss.’With this he sat down. Up starts M. a Scotchofficer, and without seeming the least displeased,said, * Gentlemen, I, when I am a little grog¬gish, and hear any person railing against theScotch, have an absurd custom of kicking himout of the company : I hope no gentleman willtake it amiss.’ It is superfluous to .add, thatthat night he had no occasion to exercise histalents.0A carpenter having neglected to make a gib¬bet, (which was ordered by the executioner,) onthe ground that he had not been paid for thelast he had erected, gave so much offence, thatthe next time the judge came the circuit he wassent for. ‘ Fellow,’ said the judge, in a sterntone, ‘ how came you to neglect making thegibbet that was ordered on my account ?’ ‘ I.9i humbly bog' your pardon,’ said the carpenter ;‘ had I known it had been tor your lord-ship, it should have been done inrnedir^tefy.16. Holy Water.—A friend of mine wasonce present at the house of a French Lady in! Canada, when a violent thunder-storm com¬menced. The shutters were immediately closed,and the room darkened. The lady of the house,i not willing to leave the safety of herself and com¬pany to chance, began to search her closets for aj bottle of water, which, by a sudden flash ofi lightning, she fortunately found. The bottle1 was uncorked, and its contents immediately. sprinkled over the ladies and gentlemen. ItSwas a most dreadful storm, and lasted a consid¬erable time ; she therefore redoubled lier sprink-I lings and benedictions at every clap of thunder:;i or flash of lightning. At length the stormSi abated, and the party were providentially savedfrom its effects ; which the good lady attributedsolely to the precious water. But when theshutters were opened, and the light admitted,1 the company found—to the destruction of theirwhite gowns and muslin handkerchiefs, their{ coats, waistcoats, and breeches—that, instead of( holy water, the pious lady had sprinkled themwith INK.17* An Englishman and a ScotchmanI coming in both together t© an inn on the road,ji found nothing to be had but a piece of mutton6 and a chicken ; so one would have the chicken,and another would have it, and began to quarrel.10The landlady desired they would eat together ;hut Sawney, whose head was building castles inthe air, said, ‘ it should be preserved till mor¬ning, and that he that dreaned the best dreamshould eat it for his breakfastso eating themutton for their supper, they went to bed. TheScotchman could not sleep one wink for thinkingwhat he should dream ; the Englishman ob¬serving where the chicken was, arose in thenight and eat it. The next morning, whenboth were up, the Scotchman said very hastily,that he dreamed the bravest dream in the world:‘ 1 hat he saw the heavens open, and that achoir of angels carried him up to St. Andrew inHeaven.’ ‘ And,’ said the Englishman, ‘ Idreamed that I saw you carried up to Heaven,so I arose and eat the chicken, for I knew youwould have no occasion for fowls there.’18. An Irish country schoolmaster beingasked what was meant by the word ‘fortification,’instantly answered, with the utmost confidence,‘ two twentifications make a fortification.’19. An Irish footman having carried abasket of game from his master to a friend,waited a considerable time for the customaryfee, but not finding it likely to appear, scratchedhis head, and said, “ Sir, if my master shouldsay, ‘ Paddy, what did the gentleman give you?’what would your honour have me to tell him ?”c20. An Irish horse-dealer sold a mare asIIsound wind and limb, and without fault.It afterwards appeared that the poor beast couldi not see at all with one eye, and was almostblind of the other. The purchaser finding' thismade heavy complaints to the dealer, and re-1 minded him, that he engaged the mare to be‘ without fault.’ ‘ To be sure,’ replied theother, ‘ to be sure I did ; but then my dearhoney, the poor crater's blindness is not herfault, but her misfortune.21. Al most every body has heard the hack-nied Joe Millar joke of the Irish footman, whorefused to tell his master’s name, when he calledji at the post-office for his letters. This, howevefnimprobable, is equalled by the following fact,j which occurred in this country not many yearsffiago. A countryman residing between Arbroath,l and Montrose was in the practice of depositingIsmail sums occasionally in the bank at Arbroath.At last, from some motive which he deemedprudential, he conceived it might be as well toi make his next deposit in the bank at Montrose.iHe accordingly we at there, and handing a oer-itain sum across the counter, inquired if theymould keep that for him. ‘ O yes,’ replied thebanker ; What is your name 5 ‘ What’s yourbusiness wi’ my name, sir ? Just gi’e me a bito’ paper,’ saidethe countryman, with an indignant: air. * We cannot give a receipt till we know> your name and place of abode,’ replied the ban¬ker. ‘ O’d, you’re ower qusitive fo’kfor me!—Provost   of Arbroath never speers my12name, nor yet where I bide : he justgi’es me apaper at ance. Sae, sir, either gi’e me a paperor my siller back again, ony of them you like.’‘ Would you let us look at one of Provost ’spapers ? said the banker. ‘ O, ay, sir.’ A re¬ceipt from the bank in Arbroath was now pro¬duced : iu consequence of which they wereenabled to give a proper voucher for the deposit.‘ Now, sir, could ye no dune that at first, an'saved yoursel’ a’ that fasherie ?’ said the coun¬tryman, putting up his papers without lookingat them.22. Margery Bell, a canty old wife of 65,who gained an honest livelihood by selling apples,who had been three times a bride, and as oftena widow, lately took it into her head to be mar¬ried again. Her joe was a widdower of thename of James M‘Donald, ten years youngerthan herself, who served in the army in the daysof his youth, and who unfortunately for the peaceof poor Maggy, is a veteran in wooing as weMas in fighting—or in other words, “ too old acat to draw a straw before. * On Mondayweek, Maggy went out to her frien James, andrequested it as a favour that he would, •* speakto” a neighbour to allow her the privilege ofstowing “ the maist, valuable o’ her bits o*furniture in his garret, as the laird wasthreatening to pound them for rent.” M‘Donald’sanswer was a very gallant one—“ Maggy,”said he, “ ye ken we are widdowers, and I diunasee why we should pay twa rents, since ane13*i might do very well for us baith.” This waswhafc is called breaking the ice, and Maggyi overjoyed to find him so complying, modestlyi replied, “ I think sae too; but it’s no for thelike o’ me to speak, for you men folk hae it a’ ini'jy©ur ain power.” By chatting in this pleasantmanner, the happy pair whiled the time away tilla late hour when the swain, of course, could doino less than convoy Maggy home. On the-Wednesday following he visited her by appoint¬ment “ to tak’ a cup o’ tea, and speak about it,”iand the matter was so far arranged thatM‘Donald regreted over and over again that(the want of money should compel him to wanta wife for the present. “ Tak nae thought o’Ithat,” said Maggy ; I hae £5, twa pigs, galoreo’ apples, and ither things, and they shall a’ bei yours on the day o’ the marriage.” “ Bravo 1”iisaid M‘Donald, “then we’ll all to LochmabenIthe morn’s morning, and I’ll joust tak’ ae civilismack and bid you good night, my ain cantytiMaggy.” To this proposal Maggy objected,land thought he might just as well stay where heSvas, and they would be the readier to start onhe ^following morning. The swain was notlifficult to persuade, and by five o’clock oni hursday, they were up and on the road. Whenhey reached Maggy’s namesake, “ wi’ the mony■ lochs,” she gave her joe 4s. 6d., to pay forwhat drink might be needed ; but when thelawin was called, he refused to come down, and(levied from his intended a fresh contribution.He next wished to finger the five pounds, b»ut14Mao-cry demurred, and at length confessed shehad only one. M‘Donald on this waxed very ,wroth, and exclaimed, “ then I’ll be hanged Igif I "marry ye,” and though witnesses were jcalled to attest the ceremony, the loviig pair re¬traced their steps homewards, and literally gotnothing but their labour for their paius. Onreaching Maxwelltovvn, they agreed “ not to leton but what they were married,” for the truthis, a party had been invited to tea, &c., a*dM‘Donald’s friends to the number of thirty,spent the evening in a most joyous manner. As jthe glass circulated, the secret spunked out, but 1as Maggy spoke of “ seeing what could be done jthe morn,” M‘Donald agreed to accompany her Jhome, amidst the cheers and congratulations of allpresent. The morn soon came, but with itcome no £5 note, and like other*hard-heartedswains, who court less for love than a comforta¬ble dowery, M‘Donaldflew oil at a tangent, andleft poor Maggy minus some ten or twelveshillings, and even more solitary than she hadbeen before. Her whole disposable wealth, Isaving always the apples and the grumpkies, Ihad dwindled into £1, collected in bawbees frombairns ; and she may truly say and sing too,“ For the lack of gold he’s left me,And of all that’s dear bereft me.”23. When the British ships under LordNelson were bearing down to attack the com¬bined fleet of Trafalgar, the first-lieutenant of theRevenge, on going round to see that all hands?15ivere at quarters, observed one of the men de-foutly kneeling at the side of his gun. So verynusual an attitude in an English'sailor excitinglis surprise and curiosity, he went and asked theinan if he was afraid. ‘ Afraid !’ answered theonest tar. with a countenance expressive of thetmost disdain ; ‘ no ! I was only praying that|he enemy’s shot may be destributed in the siimeroportion as prize-money—the greatest partijmong the officers.’24. An itinerant painter staid so long at aountry inn, that, though wilting to dfepart, head not money wherewithal to defray his lodging,o the landlord, not willing to subscribe to a►ad debt, settled it with him, that he shouldliaint him a new sign ; the subject a bear, anddie price a guinea. But the painter said, if thetear had a chain drawn round about his neckand which he w'ould advise him to) it wouldpost hali-a-guinea more. The host was notigreeable to this extra expense. Accordinglyfilie sign was painted, and the painter went his► ays, when the rain descended and washed►'ay the bear. Sometime after, the innkeeperlet the painter on the road, and said he had im-sed upon him, for that the bear was fled.Look ye here,’ replied the painter, ‘ did not Ivise you to have the chain about his neck ;■ t hick, if it had taken place, he w'ould have re¬adied there still.”25. An under-sheriff in Wilts, being to at-18tend a malefactor to execution on a Friday, wentto him the Wednesday before, to ask the follow¬ing favour:—‘My good friend,’ says t ;e sheriff,‘ you know 1 have orders to see you executednext Friday ; now it so falls out, that 1 havebusiness of the utmost importance to do at Lon¬don on that day, and as you must die so soon,!one day’s difference can make no odds. You!know I have been very kind to you during your!confinement, and I should take it as a particularlfavour if you would be hanged on Thursday!morning.’ To which the prisoner replied, ‘ Itjis true, you have been very kind to me, for whichlI return you my hearty thanks, and am veryjsorry I cannot oblige you in this particular, foriit also falls out with me that I have some busi-iness of great importance to do on Friday mor-|ning ; but, Mr Sheriff, to shew that I am not|an ungrateful man, suppose we put off this saidjlhanging till Monday morning. If you like thatjMr Sheriff, I’li agree to it with all my heart.’ I26. “ Markinch, a little inland parisJjvillage in Fife, near the road between Kirkcaldy!and Cupar, derives a sort of interest from a le-igend, connecting it with the name of one of out pmost distinguished Sovereigns. James the Fifth.|in the course of a pedestrian tour through FifeJis said to have come in disguise to MarkinchJand to have called at the only place of entertain-ument then in the village, for the purpose o||refreshing himself. The landlady had only one|room, and that was engaged by the clergymai: |17Iiul schoolmaster of the parish ; but the King-,aviug’ no objection to the society of two suchespectable persons, did not scruple to enter andeat himself at the same table. When sometime, and a good deal of liquor, had been spent,jhe reckoning was called ; and, as James had!iot been present during above a third of thevhole sederunt, the schoolmaster proposed thathe should pay a smaller share accordingly. But!his way of reasoning did not satisfy the clergy-i nan ; who vociferated that it had been theustom of Markinch, from time immemorial, tonay higglety pigglety, without regard to theuantity of liquor which each individual mightrave drunk. The schoolmaster attempted to•ionvince his boon companion of the selfishnessIwul absurdity of this system, and particularlyinserted the impropriety of carrying it intopractice in the present case, inasmuch as thelerson in question was a stranger, and shouldi e treated with hospitality instead of injustice.I1 No, no, Sir!” bawled the priest, ‘ higgletyjfigglety’s the word in Markinch, and will be as,jtng as I hae ony thing to do wiY—‘Weel,reel,’ said the King, who had not yet spoken,Ihigglety pigglety be’tlaying down his wholenare of the reckoning. His Majesty immedi-:ely after took measures tojput the schoolmasterhd minister of Markinch upon an equal footings|; to salary, at once to reward the generosity ofe former, and to punish the sordidness of the''tter. It is further said, that the salaries ofJ jese two parochial dignitaries continued nearlyK18equal till times not long gone by, ami that thes<-hoolmaster of Markinch is still rather bettereflf than most of his brethren in that respect.27. How TO MAKE THE BEST OF A BAHBargain.—A week or two ago, a man residingin the parish of Lochmaben, and a maid residingin the parish of Terregles, took it into their wissheads to be married. They were proclaimedaccordingly in their respective parishes, and no¬body appeared to forbid the bans. But on th«day preceding the intended nuptials, the brid«“ took the rue,” and formed, of a sudden, thistrange resolution of running off with anotherman. The bridegroom soon got an “inkling” othis, and in the agony of the moment was overheard mutterino-—“ She’s fair andshe’s fause that causes my smartI’ve lo’ed her meikle and lang;She’sbroken her vowsand she’sbroken mv heartSo I may e’en gae hang.”Better thoughts, however, soon prevailed, anthe man in the end took his revenge in the foilowing sensible and appropriate manner. IIhad an old flame residing in Newabbey, and t!her he forthwith popped the question. Tblady was nothing loath, and her lover havinidiscovered that the kirk’s delays may sometimebe as fatal as those of the law, determined tistrike while the ir on was hot. In place, themfore, of feeing the session-clerk twice, he hireha shandradan and drove of to Lochmabemwhere matrimonial orders are executed, we b4sieve, on the shortest notice, and most reasonableterms. And who should he happen t© encoun¬ter there but his old sweet-heart and her newHelpmate, bound on the same joyous errand, and((oth apparently in high glee that they had gotj be start of him by a few minutes. Our hero.However, was not long behind them ; the mar-(lying magistrate got another fee, and theparties (the amende honorable was afterwardsmade to the kirk-session) are now tied as hard|.nd fast as the laws of the land and church can}ind them.' 28. Method of teaching Music—A'highland piper having a pupil to teach, dis-lined to rack his brains with the names ofmiibreves, minims, crotchets, and quavers.Here, Donald lad, gie’s a blast! So, so,—era weel blawn, man ; but what’s SOUND,)onald lad, without sense ? Ye may blaw,n blaw lor aye, without maken a tune o’t, gindinna tell ye how the queer thing on the paperlaun help ye. .Ye see that big fallow wi’ a[>und open face —pointing to a semibreve,etween the two lines of a bar—“ He moveslowly frae that line to this, whiles ye beat aneri yere lit, an gie a lang loud blast. Gin ye’sit a fit till him, ye make twa <»' him, and he’llluve twice as fast. Gin ye black his face, he’llIin four times faster than the fallow wi’ thehite face ; but gin, after blacking his face,e’ll bend his knee, or tie hi's legs, he’ll hopight times faster than yon chap L showed you20first. Now, whene’er ye blaw your pipes,Donald, mind ye this, that thefaster ye tie thesefallows’ legs, the quicker they maun dance, andthe faster they’ll be shure to rin !”29. Directions on a basket of fish : ‘ For Dr. Somebody, at Stevenage.—N. B. As .the name is forgot, and direction lost, be care¬ful to whom it is delivered.’—On the other side,on a printed card, ‘ Orders executed with greatpunctuality.’30. An Irishman meetinor another, askewhat was become of their old acquaintance‘ Arrah, now, dear honey,’ answered the other,‘ poor Paddy was condemned to be hanged, buthe saved his life by dying in prison.’31. An old woman that sold ale being a*church, fell asleep during the sermon, and un-luekly let her old-fashioned clasped Bible fallwhich making a great noise, she exclaimed, halawake, ‘So, you jade! there’s another jug broke,32. A country curate, remarked for hi;great benevolence and charity to all his neigh Ihours, was go’r.g on horseback, in the middMof a hard frost, ten miles distance, to do dutyand seeing a boy sit crying under a hedge, wit!a pan and a brush, with which he had beeijmarking some sheep, inquired the cause of hifgrief. ‘ I have six miles to go home,’ said tl<21, ‘ and 1 am almost perished ; I shall never■h it, I am sure, but die here.’ The sixidles the boy had to go, happened to lie in the^arson’s road, and he very humanely offered to'ilet him ride behind, which the lad willing-y accepted, and mounted. As they wentong, the parson asked him a number of ques¬tions respecting his creed. ‘ Alas !’ said thevj-joy, * I can neither write nor read, and on Sun¬days I watch the flocks.’ ‘ More’s the pity,*isaid the curate, ‘ I’ll instruct you as we ride,f you’ll mark me.’ ‘ I will, to be sure,’ saidihe boy. The parson began, and fearful the boynight not always attend to him, said every fiveminutes, ‘ Mark me, boy.’ ‘ I do,’ says he,ind gives him a stroke on the back with theflruddle. This word was so often repeated and'itlvvays complied with on the part of the boy,tshat the parson began to look like a soldier.At length, being near the end of the journey,lie clergyman said, ‘ Now, boy, mark me forshe last time.’ ‘ By gdles, I can’t now,’ saysshe boy ‘ for I’ve used all the ruddle.’i 33. A rider to a capital house in Watling-jtreet being on a journey, was attacked a fewJiles beyond Winchester by a single highway-an, who taking him by surprise, robbed him’ his purse and pocket-book, containing cash|nd notes to a considerable amount. ‘ Sir,’j.id the rider, with great presence of mind, ‘ INrve suffered you to take my property, and youe welcome to it. It is my master’s, and theloss cannot do him much harm; but as it willlook very cowardly in me to have been robbetwithout making any defence, I should take iikindly of you just to fire a pistol through nrcoat.’ ‘ With all my heart,’ said the highwayman, ‘where will you have the ball?* ‘Here,said the rider, ‘just by the side of the button.iThe unthi.nkjug highwayfiian was as good as bi|:word; but the moment 1«« fired, the rider khoekeJ1him off his horse, and,, with die assistance of !traveller, who just at that time arrived, lodge: |the highwayman in Winchester gaol.3 k Two Irish labourers beino- at the exoeution of three malefactors ou die new seaft'olbefore Newgate, one says to the other, ‘ Arral ;Pat, now, ! but is tliere auy difference betweebeing hanged here and being hanged in chains‘ No honey !’ replied he, ‘ no great differenceonly one hangs about an hour, and the othehangs all the days of his life.’3.5. A commercial traveller one day at Icountry inn, was boasting somewhat extravsjgaritly of the very extensive nature of tiltransactions in which he had the honour to Iconcerned. Amongst other proofs of the trutof his representations, he stated to his fellov 6travellers, that “ his house” paid upwards i£300 per annum for the article of writing-inonly, to be used in their counting-house, arother offices ! “ Oh !” replies a traveller in idifferent line of business, “ that’s a mere fie !23bite to the business done by our house; do youknow,” he continued, “ that during- the lasttwelvemonths we have saved, in that article,alone, no less a sum than £2,000, by merelyomitting the dots to our i’s, and the crosses toour T s36. The clergyman of a country villag-e re¬prehending one of his parishioners for quarrelling, with his wife so loudly and so frequently, as tobe a source of perpetual disturbance to theIt neighbourhood, in the course of his exhortationremarked, that the scriptures declared that manand wife were one. ‘ Aye, that may be, sir,’answered Hodge, ‘but if you were to go bywhen me and my wife are at it, you’d thinkthere were twenty of us !’: answer.37. An English gent]eman|travellir,gthronghthe Highlands, came to the inn of Letter Fin¬lay, in the braes of Lochaber. He saw no per¬son near the inn, and knocked at the door. NoHe knocked repeatedly with as littlehe then opened the door and walked.in. On looking about, he saw a man lying onabed, whom he hailed thus : “ Are there anyIChiistians in this house ?” “ No,” was theeply, “we are all Camerons.”isuccess38. An honest Highlander, walking alonjfHolborn, heard a voice cry ‘ Rogue, Scot !iRogue Scot !’ His northern blood fired at‘the insult, he drew his broad sword, looking8$w21<1rround him on every side, to discover the objectof his indignation ; at last he found that itcame from a parrot, perched in a balcony with-1in his reach. But the generous Scot, disdain¬ing to stain his trusty blade with such ignoblblood, put up his sword again, with a sour smile*saying, ‘ Gin ye;were a man as ye’re a green;g«use, I would split your weem.”39- Sir Toby Butler, the famed Irish bar¬rister, once invited Sir Charles Coote to dinner;he knew that his guest valued himself on alonglist of ancestry, in which Sir Toby could haverivalled him if he had not prized himself on hisown merit. At dinner Sir Toby used to crvout, ‘ Tell my cousin Pat the butler, tell my;cousin Oonah the cook, tell my cousin Terry th|groom, such and such a thing.’ ‘ What,’ saidSir Charles, in a degree of surprise, ‘I find thaiall your servants are your relations.’ ‘ To bsure,’ said the knight: ‘ is it not more praiseworthy to retain my own relations for servants, than to keep your’*!’FINIS.