AN AWFULHi:a[t[itIVaiiuIV[IVIVIfrtIV[HII[IVn[IV[1[IV[1i[IV[TIIIILfi[IV[II[IVMEMORIALOF THE STATE OFFrancis Spira,ATTER HE TURN’DAPOSTATEFROM THEProteftant ChurchTOi POPERY.Heaven tasted and lost, a double Hell!1 ve call'd thee Reader; pray so be:Read tbis, that others read not thee.•H--H-++-H-+++J-4-T-W- t-t-H-H-H-H-H-t-H-H-FALKIRK:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.1815.H]H]IV)1i]IV11IJIV]If]IV]15]IV]If]IV]If]IV]If]IV]11}IV]If]IV]HJIV]If)IV]' mIV]If]IV]If]IV)II]IV]II]1V111]IV]C a 3THEHISTORYOFFRANCIS SPIRA.#XKXXXXXXSXXXX'++-i:XXXSXXXXXi-S5;3i*IN’ the year 1548, when the glorious Sunof the Gofpel was but newly rifen in Europe,in the rign of Edward VI. King of England,in the territory, and under the jurifdiflion of ithe City of Venice, being the very border of Italy,in the Town of Citadella, lived on FrancisSpirat% Civil Lawyer, an Advocate of great rank andefteetn, being of great experience, of circutnfpeAcarriage and fevere, his fpeech grave and com-pofed, his countenance Iharp and auftere, every 'way befitting that authority whereunto he wasadvanced; endowed with the bleffings of a wifeand eleven children, and wealth in abundance.—What his w'orfi: parts were, I have no otherwarrant than hi* own words, which, if not tainted.over-much with the bitternefs of adefperate mind,and bearing a countenance rather of paffion, thanof a fober confeffion, may feera to add a periodto all further commendations.I was,” faith he, “ exceedingly covetous“ of money; and accordingly applied myfelf“ to get it by injuftice, corrupting julUce bytv dectfitj inventing tricks to delude julUce;C 3 1! {‘ good cauCes I either defended decitfullv, ori “ fold them to the adverfary perfidioully.—1 “ III caufes I maintained with all my might.1 “ I wittingly oppofed the known truth; and1 “ the truft committed unto me, I either be-1 “ trayed or perverted.”Thus having worn out forty-four years, orI thereabout*, and the news ofVne /tew, or rather: r.e'jjly revived opinions of Luther coining intoi thofe parts, reprefented an objeft of novelty! unto him, who being defirous to know, as he1 was famous for knowledge, fuffered not thefej wandering opinions to pafs unexamined ; but; fearching into the Scriptures, and into all booksi of controverftes that he could get, both old and! new, and finding mere than fame and opinion,I he began to talte their nature fo well, that he• entertained, loved, and owned them at length,j and .vitb fuc’n zeal, that he became a profeflor,j yea, a teacher of them, firft to his wife, children| and family, and afterwards to his friends andfamiliar asquaintance; and, in companlon,feemedto neglect all other affairs ; always maintainingj this main point, u That we muft wholly and only| depend on the free and unchangeable love of God,J in the death of Chrift, a* the onlv fure way toi falvation.” And tnis was ihe i'um of all hisdifeourfe for the fpace of fix rears, or thereabout^fo long as the knowledge of it was kept lecret;but at length it brake forth in putlic meetings,fo that the whole Province uf Padua vat over-, run with the knowledge of this new donlrine.The Clergy finding the trade of their PardonsI to decay, and their Purgatory to wax cold,; began to be' ir themiclvc. ; gl fling their a&ionsj fint vith calumnious alperlions upon the wholeprofeffian j then more plainly llriking at Splra[ 4 1with grtevout accufations. And to efTcft their 'purpofe, fome threa'encd him; otners promiied|ihim favours and preferment; fome would C' unfell’:him, and all joined to divide either his ioui from,,his body, or both from God.At this time one John Cafa was the Pope’sLegate at Venice, a f iorentintine by birth, andone that wanted neither malice againd thofe who1were of Spira’s opinion, nor craftinefs tohis malicious purposes. fo.him thefe men re¬paired with outcries agamic Spira, that he wastfie man that condemned the received right* of;the Church, eluded the E'cckfiafticat power, andJcandalizsd the policy thereof; one of no meanvan It, being a man of tome account and authority,and afo darned’.in the Scriptures, eloquent inJpeech, and, in one word, a dangerous Lutheran,having alfo irgny difciples, and therefore a roannot to ,pe.defpifed.The.Legate, upon hearing this, began to re-ile£t on the terrible alteration that had latelyhappened in Germany ; where, by tiie means ofone man only, p/z Luther, the Rcmifh religionhad luiTered iuch a blow, as that it could neither!be cured by difiimu'ation nor defended by power,butt the Clergy mult either mend their roahners,or lufe their dignities. On the other hand, whenhe faw how readily the common people, inhabit¬ing the bordering country of Italy, were to en¬tertain thefe new o* inions, he now thought itna iTitie to difpute or perfuade, but .with ipecdrepairs to the Senate, and procures authorityfro i,ern.to fend for Spira.b a, by this time, had confidered with hirn-feit’ii nature of hi. coinage, how evident andno,tori us it was, and therefore fubjeft to beeiiviea by fuch as neither liked hi* perfon noilC 5 1nsligior.. He perceived that hi3.0pitn0rj.werereither reth'ed, ncr fpeculative, but tuch'asuitned at the R-oiruiii fa<5t»on. and a change o£policy. And that his enemies wanted neitherpower nor’occafi m to call him to an aeconnt inpublic when he mud either apodatize* and Ouvne-fully give his former life, yea, his own coma-ence the lie, or endure the utmdft mahce of hisdreadful enemies; or forfake his wife, childien,friends, goods, authority, yea, his dear country,and betake •himfeif to a foreign people, there toendure a thoufand miferies, that do continuallyattend upon a voluntary exile. ^ ^Being thus di dr ailed, and tofletl by refiiefswaves of doubt, without guide to truft to, orhaven to -fly to for fuccouis, on a iadaen. (rod’sSpirit a (Tiding, he fek a calm, and began to reafonwith himf-lf in the following manner.“ Why-wandered thou thus in uncertainty a,unhappy man? Call away fear; put ont uy fnield,the fliiold of faith. Where is thy wonted cou¬rage, thy goodnefs and couftaney ? RememberthatChrill’s glory lies at ttake, fuller thou w ith-out fear, and he will defend thee ; he will tellthee what thou (halt anfwer ; he can beat downall danger ; bring thee cut of prifon ; raife theefrom the dead. Confider Peter in a dungeon ,the martves ih the fire. thou Tr.a--.ed a goodconfeffion, thou mayeft indeed go to prifor ordeath, but an eternal reward remains m heavenfor thee. What'haft thou in thi# world com¬parable tc everlafting happinels: If thou dcilotherv. ife, think of tne fcantlal; (common peep.elive by example, thinking whatever is cone, iswell done.); fear the lofs of pence and jay ^fear death, hell, and eternal wrath!!1. Or uthe (T-fit be 1’d'llt me as to cattle thee to doubtI ^ .3«f th^ iffua, fly thy country, get thee awav, .1though never io far, rather than denv theLord of life.” 7Now was Spira in reafonable quiet, beingret Si'/ed to yield to thefe weighty reafons.—\ et holding it wifdom to examine all thijro-fi,he canfult* alfo with fie ill and blood. Thusthe batjle doth renew, and the flefli beganto renfon thus :u Be well advifed, fond man; cor.fldcr reafon®n both {ides, and then yudge. How canfl thouthus overcome thy fufficiency, as thou neitherregarded the examples of thy progenitors, northe judgment of the whole ehurch? Dolt thounot confider what mifery this thy raflinefs willbring unto thee ? Thou (halt lofe all thy fub-Uance gotten with io great care and travail;thou ihalt undergo the moil exquifite tormentsthat mance can devi.e ; thou Ihalt be countedan heretic, and to cloio up all, thou {halt dieihamefuUy. W hat thinked thou of the iothforreftmking dungeon, the bloody ax, or the burningfaggot ? Are they delightful ? Be wife at length,and keep thy life and honour ; thou mavell liveto do much good to men, as God commands thee;and thou mayeft be an ornament to thy country.Wilt thou bring thy friends alfo into danger ?I hou hall begottOn children, wilt thou now cuttheir throats, and inhumanly butcher them, whomay,in time bring honour to their country, gloryto God, help and furtherance to his church?Go to the Legate, weak man, freely conrefs thyLuk, and help all thefe miferies.” *t hus did the cares of this world, and thedecaitfulnefs of riches choak the good feed thatwas formerly Town. He feared and fainted, andGelded ante the allurements of this world!!! —£ 7 1Being tliu* blinded, he v.-snt to the Legate atVenice, and thus mddrefied him :“ Having for thefe dtverie years entertainedan opinion concerning fame articits cf faith,contrary to the orthodox and rec^» ed judgmen;of the Chtirch, and uttered many thing* agaiuk: the authority of the Church of Rome, and theUniverfal Bithop; t humbly a knoy.-ledge myfault and error, and my folly in mifleading othertLJ therefore yield myfelf in all obedience to theSupreme Bifliop of the Church of Rome, neverj to depart again from the traditions and decrees: of the Holy See. I am heartily lorry for whatis pail, and humbly beg pardon far my offence.”The Legate raving heard Spira’s confeffion.caafed a recitation’of ail hi» errors to be drawnj up in writing, together with the Ccmfeflion ar-ntxed to it, and commanded Spira t© fubferibeh;s name thereto, which accordingly he did. Then the Legate commanded him to return tohis own town, and there to declare this Con-■ fcflton of his, and to acknowledge the wholeDo&rine cf the Church cf Rome to be holeand true; and to abjure the opinions of Lutherand other Rich teachers, us falfe and heretical.Spira fubmitted to tills humiliating order r£the Legate’s, and promifed to accomplifli hiswhole will and pleature. But, on his way home,he began to think of what he had done ; how hehad fhamefully negle&ed the opporumitv ofgiving a glorious teflimony of his faith beforethe Legate ; and how he had impiouuy deniedCbrill and his gofpel at Venice, bdidcs what hehad promi’ed to do further in his own country.And thus, through fear and f.iarre. being con¬founded, ha thought he heard a voice fpcakjrgto him in this manner.•[ S ]“ Spiral Wb»t Soft thou .here? Vv'hUherK.jett thou? Hail th u, unhappy man. giventhy hftnh-writnig to the Legate at Venice? —Yet fee thci < .notfealit in.thine own country.Doft th 'u. indeed, think ctlerral ii-c to mean athing, as that thou prefereft this present lifebefore it ? Do ft thou well in prefering wife andchildren before Chrift ? Is the windy applaufeof the people better, indeed, than the glory ofGod ; and the poffJfton of this tvorld’s good,more dear to thee than the falvation cr thtneown fou: ? Is the ftnail enjoyment of a mom ntof time, more defircable than.eternal wrath isdreadful? Think with thyfe'.f, what Chrift didendure for thy fake ! Is it not equal that tnouthou’deit fuller Iflutlewiiut tor hint: Reuieniber,man. that the fufferings of this prefent life, arehoc comparable to the glory that liiailbe revealed.If thou fuff-reft with him' thou lhalt alio reignwith him. Thou canff not anfwer for whatthou had alreadv done; neyerthelel* the gate*.d' mercy is not qui:e (hut : i at;e heed thatthou heaped not tin upon fin, led thou repentwhen it is too late.”Now was Spira in the wi’dernefs of doubt,not knowing which way to turn him, or v hatto do vet being arrived in hu own country,and among his friends, confidering what he haddone, and what he had farther promitVd to do;and how the terror of God, on the one fide, andthe terror of this world on the other, did con¬tinually rack him; and therefore he edirtdtheir advice in lb doubtful a cafe.- His frienus,upon fmail deliberation,^anlwered, 1 hat it wasrequifite he luould take heed tliat he cud t.ot,in any wife, betray his wife and children, and ailIn* friend*} into danger; feeing, that'by iclmall[93..a matter a* the renting of a little Schedule,which night be Gone in Isis fpa ’e than ha •.' an hour, iie might bo h free himfelf from prefent^ danger, and preferv'e many that depended on him ;adding, moreover, that he c uid get no creuit inrelefttiug froin ihcit which he halt aircooy, fortlie moit part, acknowledged before ihe<Lsga.e.at Venice ; and that in the pfcrfefraccompHftungthereof, little or no dilcredit could arile,^ men ethan what bv the former ac'Uon he had alieadyi fad aired On the other fide, hi he die not,per¬form his promife to the Legate, he coula neitherdifeharge himfelf of the fhame which he bad al¬ready incurred, nor avoid far more heavy ardinfupportable injuries, than probably he (liouldhave endured, if he had perfifitd cbftinately. inhis former opinions. .Thii was the laid blow or the battle, and Spira,utterly overcome, goes to the Praetor, and makesoffer to perform his promife made to the Legate ;who, in the mean "imc, had taken order to haveall things ready, and font the inftrument of ad¬juration, tigned by Spira, to the- Pvstor, by thehands of a oertain pfietl.All that night'the mi Terabit; man wore outwith refilefs cares, without a minute of rtu.The next morning being come, he got up, andbeing ready, deiperately enters into the putili..-congregation, where Mats being hnifneo,. in tbepretence of friends and enemies and of the v, noteaflembly, being, by etiiniation, near two thou:andpedpl j; vea, and of Heaven itieifl he recitedthat infamous abjuration, word lor word, as itwas written. It being done-, he was fined cithirty pieces of gold, which be prelcntly paid,fi.’r whereof were given to the prieft that broughtihe abjuration, the other five and twenty vvei.s[ 1° ]omployetl towards the making of a fhrine to putthe Euchariil in. Then he went home, and waaj’eiifu-ed to his^ dignities, properties, wife, andchildren.No fooner was he departed, but he thoughthe heard a direful voice faying to him,“ 7 hou wicked wretch, thou had denied me;thou haft renounced the covenant of thy obedi¬ence ; thou had broken thy vow ! Hence, ape-'liate, bear with thee the i'entence of thy eternaldamnation !”Trembling and quaking in body and mind,he fell down in a iwoon : Relief was at handfor the body,, but from that time forward, henever found any peace or eafe of mind, 1^ con¬tinuing in inceflant torments 1 — He ptotelEdthat he wa> captivated under the revenging handt the great God 1— That he heard continuallythat fearful iemence of Chrift, that juft Judge 1i hat he knew he was utterly undone ! — Thathe could neither hope for grace, nor Chrift’sinterceffian with God the Father in his behalf !—Thus was his fault ever heavy on his heart, andhis judgment before his eyes !Now began lome of his friends to repent, buttoo late, of their rath Gourde!; others, not look¬ing fo high as the juft judgment of God, laid allthe blame on his melancholy conftiturion; thatoverlhadowing his judgment, wrought in hima kind of madneis. Every one cenfured as hisfancy led him; yet, for remedy, all agreed in this,lo ufe both the help of f’hyficians, and the piousadvice of Divines ; and therefore thought it fixto convey him to Padua, an Un'iwL-rfity of rote,where all manner of means were to be had."1 bis they accordingly did, both with his wife,children, and whole family; otbsrs aUVof his[ I* }I friends accompanying him. And being arrived: at the houfe of one James Arden, in St. Leonard’s| parifh, they lent for three eminent Phtlicians,1 who upon due obfervati'on of the effcCii, and ofi other fyraptoms of his difeafe, and fome privateconference one with another amonglf themfelves,returned this anfwer : That they could not dif-i cern that hi* body was affli&ed with any dangeror difieinner originally from itfelf, by reafon ofthe over-ruling of any humour; but that thishi* malady did arife from fome grief or pafiionof the mind, which being over-burdened, did foopprefs the fpirits, as that they wanted a freepsffage; which . fttrrcd up many i’ll humours,whereof the body of man is full; and thefeefeending up into the brain, troubled the fancy,lhadowed 'he feat of judgment, ard corrupted it.This Were the ftate of his dileafe. ard that out¬ward part that was vifibie to the eye of nature.This they endeavoured to reform by purgation;either to confume, or at leafi divert the eourfsef thofe humours from the brain. But all tlieirIk:II effefied nothing ; which made Spit a fay,“Alas! poor men, how ignorant are you?Do you chirk that this difeafe is to be curedby potions ? Believe me, these mult be anothef;manner of medicine ; it is-neithtr plaiiter tierdrugs that can help a fainting foul, cr.ft downwith the feofe of fm, and wrath of God ; it i?only Chrilf that mu'd be the Phyfic’.an, and thego fuel the foul’s antidote.”The Pnvfc.ians eafily believed him, after theyhad under Hood the whole truth of the matter;and therefore they will'd him to leek fomeIpiritual comfort.Bv this time,' the fame of Spira was Treadall over Padua, and the neighboring, ccuiitry ^[ Vs 3partly, becaufe as the difeafe, fa the cceahonsvas particularly remarkable. Multitudes, ofall forts, came to fee;him feme out of curioiity,only to fee and difepurfe ; fome out of a piousaetire, to try all means that might reduce himto comfort again; oj- at lead, to benefit tbem-feives by a ipscfacie of iftifery, and the jufticeof God. Amongd thefe Paulu*, bilhop of Juitin-opolis, and Mathaeus Gribauldus, deierve efpe-cially to be named, as the molt principal labou¬rers for Spira’s comfort.They found him now about fifty years of age,neither afFefled with the dotage of old age, norwith the, uncpnftaiit hcad-ftrong pafilon oi youth,but in the ftrength of his experience and judg¬ment ; in a burning heat, calling exceffiveiy fordrink, yet his underftanding affive, quick ofapprehenlion, witty in difeourfe, above his ordi¬nary manner, and judicioully appefue.Spira’s friends laboured with him by all fairmeans to receive nourishment; which he oblti-nately refufing, they forcibly infilled fome liquidfuftenance into his mouth, moft of which he.fpitout again, exceedingly chafing; and ru this fret¬ting mood of his laid,V As it is true, that all things work for thebaft, to thofe that love God; io to the wickedail are contrary : Fcjr, whereas a plentiful eff-fpring is the bleiTmg'of Gop, and his ree ward,being a ft ay to the Weak eftate of their agedparents; to me they are a curie of b’uteir.efuand vexation,'! they do ftrive to make me tireout this mile ruble-life,; I would fain be' at anend of it. O that I were gqne from hence!that fomebodv wouki let out this weary foulHis A1 ends fainted him, and alked him, wt-athe C^ncetvU to be the catu’e c: his diieafe l— ;(K 'i 1At which hs broke out into a laraentible dii-courfe of the.paffagea formerly related; and thatwith fucrr paflionate elocution, as caul'ed manyto weep, and moft to tremble- They contranly*to c imforrt him, propounded many examplesof Gad’s mercy.« My fin,” laid he, 4; is greater than themercy of God.”Nay, anf*ere«i they, the mercy of God isabove all fin; Gad would have all men to belaved. “ k is true, (quoth he), He would haveall that he hath elefted to be laved ; he wouldnot have damned reprobates to be laved : I amone of that number, I know it; for 1 willinglyand againft my knowledge, denied Chrilt; andI feel that the hardens, and will not iuffer meto hope.” — After fome filer.ee, one a Iked him.Whether he did not believe that doflrine to betrue, for which he was accufed before the Legate ?lie anfwered, l did believe it, when 1 de¬nied i:; but now, I neither believe that, northe doctrine of the R-oVnifli Church t I believenothing, I have no faith, no trull, no hopd^-I am a reprobate, like Cain or Judas, who callingaway all hope of mercy, fell into deipair ; andmy friends do me great wrong, that hey iufferme not to go to the place ot unbelievers, as IjulHy deferve.” Then they began fharply torebuke him, requiring and charging him, thatin any wife be aid not violate the mercy of God,To w hich he anfwered, The mercy of God isexceeding large, and extends to ad the eiccl, butnot to me, or any like to rue, who' are lealed upto wrath. 1 tell you I detevve it; my ownconfcience condemns » ■/what need is there torany other judge;”t H JChrif? came, faict they, to take away Tin,Rom. ii. 5. And calling tor a book, they readunto nim the paffnn of Chrift; and coming tobis nailing to the crofs, Spira faid, “ This indeedJ3 comfortabie to f'uch as are eleRed; bat as forine, wretch, they are nothing but grief and tor¬ment, becaafe I contemned them.,, Thus cryingout with grief, and coding himfelf up and downon a bed whereon he lay, he intreated them toread no more to him.When Gribauldus came to fee him. Vergeriusfaid to Spira, Dear Sir, here is. Dr. Gribauldus,a godly an.i. fahhful friend of yours, com<? to feeyou. He is welcome, laid he, but he (halt findme ill, Gribauldus replied. Sir, this is but aniilufion of the devil, who doth what he can toVex you ; but turn you to God with your wholeheart, and he is ready to (hew you mercy.—The Lord, you know, is full cf mercy ; it is hethat hath laid, ‘v That as often a* a finner fitalirepent of his fin, he will remenjbea his fin nomore.” Confider this in the example of Peter,t^t v < 5 Ohrid’s familiar and apoifle, who dentedhim thrice, and notwithuandirg all that, did notChrid (hew mercy to him ? Is the Lord’s handnow Hi utened that it cannot lave ?To this Spira anfsvered, u If Peter grievedand repented, it was becaufe Chrift locked, on himwith a merciful eve ; and in that he was pardoned,it wait riot becaufe he wept, but becaiue God wasgracious to him. But God refpe&s not me, andtherefore I am a reprobate. I feel no comfortcan enter into my heart; there is only placethere for torments and vexing* of (piri*. 1 tellyou mv cafe is properly mine own; no manWas ever in the like e*» idition, and thereforemy Hate is fearful !” — Then roaring cut in the: bitternefs oF his fpirit,faid, “ It is a fearful thingI to Fall into the hands of the living ■God P’The violence of his paffion and a&ion,^ didl amaze many of the beholders to much, that tomei of them laid, with *hil’epering voices, that hei was polIeHed.' He overhearing it, f.aid, Do youI -doubt it ? A whole legion of devils have taken up' their dwelling in me. -and pefieis me os their own.and jaftly too, for I have denied Chrilt.Did you it wittingly, er not? laid they.—That is nothing to the purpofe, faid Spira;Cbrift hath faid, “ Whofoever denies me beforemen, him will I deny before sny Father which is! in heaven.’- Ghrill will not be denied, no not: in a word ; and therefore it is enough, thoughin heart I never denied him.They oblervuig his difleroper to arifethe fenfe and horror of the pain* of hell, alkeahim, if he thought them worie pains than whathe endured for the prefen: ? He faid, that heknew there were far worie pains than thofe hethen fuffered: “ For the wicked fliall rile totheir, judgment; but they lhall not {land injudgment,” Plaint i. This I tremble to think of 1yet I do defire nothing more, than that I mightcome to that place where I might be fare to feel-the worll, and to be freed from fear of worfeto come.” Ay, but you are to coriider, faid one,that thofe opinions, for which you were acculedbefore the Legate, were impious ; and thereforeyou are not to think you denied Chrilt, but ratherthat vou confelled him, acknowledging the infai»lib'e truth of the Catholic Church. 1 ruly,laid he, when I did deny thole opinions, 1 didthink to be true, and yet 1 did deny him.Sir, fa id another, try to believe now that theynvcftrae./ Now f cannot, faith he; Cud willC 16 ]not fufFor ms to believe them, nor trufc in hismercy. What would you have me to do?—■I would fain attain to this power, but cannot,tho I Ihouid prei'cntly be burned for it.But why do vou. faid another, etdeem this fogreat a fin, whenas the learned Legate conllrainedyou to. it; which furelv he would not have doneif your former opinions be not erroneous ? No,go d E rancis, the devil befets thee ; let not thegrievoufnefs of any fin amaze thee.You lay right, faid Spira, the devil hath pof-fessed me, and God hath left me to his power jror I find I can neither believe the gofpel, nortruft i i God's mercy. I have finned againil theHoiy Ghofl, and God, by his immutable decree,hath baund me over to perpetual punifhment,without any hopes of pardon 1 It is true, thegreatness of fins, not tiie multitude of them,bind God’s mercy .; all thofe fins that in theformer part of my life I have committed, thendid not fo much trouble me ; for I trusted Godwould not lay them to my charge: but now,having sinned against the Holy Ghost, G .D hathtaken away from me all power cf repentance,and brings ail my fins to remembrance; and beingguilty of one, I am guilty of all: Amid thereforeit i» no matterwhether my fins be great or fmal!,few or many ; they be. fuch as Cnriu's blood,nor God’s'mercy belongs not to me i — u GodWill nave mercy on whom he will have mercy,and whom he will he harder,eth.” 'phis it isthat gnaws'my heart; he hath hardened me!and I had that he daily more and more dothharden me ; and therefore I am put of hope ! I !I teil you, there was never fuch a monster asI a n !—ne ver was any rr.au alive, fuch a fpc&acleo: exceeding misery 1 —i knew that niy'jusufica*! tlos was to l><i expttteil oy Christ, and I dciri rd; and abjured it, to the end I might seep this tradI life from adversity, and my children from poverty,i and now behold how bitter this ln£ is to me -And God only knows, what fit all become of this; mv family ; but lure n ‘ good is like to betide it,: but worfe and worfe, and fuch a ruin at length,as one done (hall not be left upon another ! ! 1But why Should you, faid.Gribauldas, conceitfo deeply of your fin. feeing y ,u cannot but knowthat manv have denied Christ, yet never tell intodespair ?' “ Bat, ibid Spira, I can fee so groundof c >mf >rt for fuch ^ neither can I warrant themfrom God’s revenging hand, or that he will yetfuffer i’uch to be in peace; and befides, therewill be a time of danger to come, and they fbailbe thoroughly tried; and if it were not io, yetGod is ju.t in making me an example to others,and I cannot juftly complain. There is no punifli-ment fo great but I have deserved it, for thisfo haincus an offence* I assure you, it is nofraail matter to deny Christ, and ye. it is moieordinary than commonly men d# conceive of; ,it is not a denial made before a Msg fir ate, as itis with me ; for as oft a* a 0 nr i hi an doth cil-femble the known truth, as often as he approvesof falfe worlhip, by prefenting himielf at it;fo often as he doth things unworthy of his calling,fo often he denies Chrilb. t his did I, and amtherefore julUy puniflied for i< VYour eilate, quoth Gribauldus, is not foilrange as you matte it. Job W'as fo far gone,that he complained G i> had fet him as a markagainst him. And David, that was a man nfterGod’s own heart, complained often that GcDhad forfaken him, and was become his enemy.Yet both received comfort again. Comfoitr. is ]yaurfelf therefore, God will come at length,though he feem afar off.O brother, anlVered Splra, I believe all this;4‘ The devils believe and tremble!” But Davidwas ever ele&ed, and dearly beloved of God ;and tho’ he fell, yet God took not utterly awayhis Holy Spirit, and therefore was heard whenhe prayed, “ Lord, take not thy holy Spiritfrom me !” But I am in another cafe, beingever accurfed from the prefer.ee of God ! —Neither can I pray a* he did, btcaufe his HolySpirit is quite gone, and cannot be recalled ;and therefore I know I fliall live in continualhardnefi. fo long as I live. Oh ! that I mightfeel but the lead fenfe of the love f God to me,tho’ but for ene imall moment, as I now feel hisheavy wrath, that burns like torments of hellwithin me, and afflicts my confcience with pangsunutterable ! Verily delperation is hell itfelf!Then Gribauldus faid, l do verily believe,Spira, that God having fo feverely chaftised youin this life, correiteth you in mercy here, thatHe may fpare you hereafter; and that He hathmercy fealed up for you in time to come.Nay, laid Spira, her.ee do 1 know that I ama reprobate, becaufe he afflifteth me with hard-nefs of heart. O that my body had fuffered allmy life long, fo that he would be pleased to re-leafe my foul, and ease my conscience, this myburdened and oppressed conscience !Gribauldus being willing fo ease lit* mindFrom the continual meditation of his fins; as alsoto found him how' for the present he ftoed affec¬ted to the Romifti Church, allied him what hethought became of the fouls 01 men, after theydeparted out of the body? To which Spiraanswered; “ Altho’ this be not clearly revealedt 19 Jj In Scripture, yet I verily believe, that the fouls: of the ele£t go presently to the kingdom of glory,I and not that they Sleep in the body, as fcme do1 imagine.” Very well, faidone {landingby, whyi dv the Scriptures then fay, J Sam. v, 9. that CJoi>j brings down to hell, and raiseth up? Seeing it1 cannot be meant of the hate of the foul afterI death, which, as thou fayest, either gceth to! heaven without charge, or to hell without re-j demption ; it mud be underftood of the flate ofI the foul in this life, like that wherein thou artat present. And oftentimes \vs fee, that Godfuffers men to fall into the jaws of despair, andyet raiseth them up again : And therefore de-fpair not, but hope ; it fnall be even thus withthee in his good time.This is the work, quoth Spira, this is thelabour! For, I teli you, when I at Venice didfir!t abjure my profession, and ,fo, as it weredrew an indenture, the Spirit of God often ad'monilhed me. And when at Citadella, I didas it were, fet my feal, the Spirit of God oftenSuggested, to me, “ Do not vritr.! — Do not feal 1”^ et resisted I the Holy Ghost, and did both. And at that very present I did evidently feela wound in my very will. So, altho7 I can fay,1 would believe, yet I cannot fay, 1 will believe.God hath dried nfe the power of will? and itbefalls me in this my (fate, as one that is fall irirons, and his friends coining to fee him, do pityhis Rate, and perfuade him to flir.ke off hu fetters,and come out of his bonds, which, God knows,he would fain do, but cannot. This is my verycase ; you persuade me to believe ; how famwould I do it, but cannot. O now 1 cannot 1 —Then violently grasping his hands together, and[ 20 ]vet b\> lit Je ana little I decay and consume.—My fervants would fain preserve this my wearylife, but at length'the will of God must be done,and 1 Pa all perish miserably, as I deserve!—Rejoice, ye righteous, in the Lord ! —Blessedare you whose hearts the L.ord hath mollified.—Then, after {bine pause, he went on.I earnestly desire to pray to God with myheart, yet I cannot 1 —I fee my damultion, anaI know my remedy is only in CnrUt, yet I can¬not fet myself to take hold of it.—Such are thepunishments of the damned ; they repent ofthe loss of heaven, but they cannot mend theirways. —As he was thus fpeaking, he observeddivers Hies that came about him. and lighted onhim : Behold! faid he, now also Beelzebub comesto his banquet; you Stall Ihortly iee my esd !and in me, an example to many, of the jtnticeand judgment of Gad 1About this time came in two Bishops, withdivers Scholars of the University, one of themPaulus Vergerius. who having observed Spiramore than any other, being continually convers¬ant with him, told him, I hat his (late was iuch,as rather hood in need of prayer than advice ;and therefore desired him to pray with him inthe Lord’s prayer. Spira consented, and hebegan, in the following manner.“ Our Father which art in heaven.”But Spira, breaking forth into tears, (lopped.And they laid to-him. It is well, your grief isa good (ign. — 1 bewah, (aid Spira, my nusei^ ,for I perceive l am forsaken of God, and cannotcall to him from my heart, as I was wont to do.Yet let us go on, laid Vergemis.“ Thy kingdom? come,’[ ai ]O Lord, fa'id Spira, bring me alfo into thi«kingdom ; I befeech thee (hut me not out.Give us this day our daily bread.” ^O Lord, added he. I have enough, and abund¬ance to feed this carcase of thine, but there isanother bread ; I humbly beg the bread of thygrace, without which, I am but a dead man.“ Lead us not into temptation.”r Seeing, Lord, that 1 am brought into tempta¬tion, help me. Lord, that 1 may escape. Theenemy hath overcome, help me, 1 beseech thee,to overcome this cruel tyrant.These things he fpake with a mournful voice,the tears trickling down abundantly, and express¬ing fuch affeflion and passion, as fiiled all presentwith grief and cornpundlion.Then they laid to him, Sir, you know thatnone call Christ Jesus, the Lord, but by theHoly Ghost; you must therefore think of your-felf, according to that foft affc&icn which youexpress in your prayers ; inferring thereby,that God hath not wholly cast you eff, cr be¬reaved you of his Spirit utterly.I perceive faid Spira, that I call to him tomy eternal damnation! I*or I tell you again,it is a new and unheard of example, that youfind in me. If Judas? faid they, had but out-livedhn days, which by nature he might have done,he might have repented; and Christ would havereceived him to mercy ; and yet he finned mostgrievously against his Master which did foesteem him as to honour him with the dignityof an apostle ; and did maintain and feed bim.Spita answered: Christ did also feed andhonour me; neither is my fault one jot lessthan that of his ; because it is no more honourto be personally present ivLh Chrift in the flefli.t ]tlian to be in h»s presence by the illuminationof hi* holy Spirit. Befides, Judas could neverhave repented, ho^v long.foever he had lived;for grace wa* quite taken from him, as it isnow with me !O Spira, faid tliey, you know you are ina fpiritual desertion; you must therefore notbelieve what Satan fuggests : He was ever a liarfrom the beginning, and a mere impostor, andwill cast a thousand lying fancies into your mind,to beguile you withal 5 you must rather believethose whom you judge to be in a good (late, andmore able to discern of you than yourself.—Believe us, and we tell you, that God will bemerciful unto you.There is the knot! faid Spira. Would Icould believe, but I cannot.Then he began to Reckon up what fearfuldreams and visions he was continually troubledwith ! That he faw the devils come flockinginto the chamber and about his bed, terrifyinghim with ftrange noises! That those were notfancies, but that he knew them as really as the ’bv-standers. And that besides these outwardterrors, he felt continually7 a racking torturein his mind, and a continual gnawing of his con-fcience, being the very pangs of the damned.Cast away these fancies, faid Gribauldus,these are but illusions ; humble yourself in thepresence of God, and praise him.“ The dead praise not the Lord, faid he, northey that go down to the pit.” We that aredrowned in despair, are dead, and already gonedown into the pit. What hell can be worsethan desperation, or what greater punishment ?The gnawing worm! unquenchable fire! horror!confusion! and, which is worse than all, despe-[ 13 1i ration itself continually torments me! And nowI I count my present Hate worse than if my foul*i feparated from my body, were with judas, andl the rest of the damned ! and therefore now de-I fire rather to be there, than to live in the body LThey perceiving but fmall efFo&s of all their! labour, but rather that he grew worse ; for thei avoiding of a concourse of people (for every dayieidom fewer than twenty continued with him)and to ftop the Course of fame, w hic'n was con¬tinually blown abroad of him, they consulted tocarry him back again i»to his own country’:And those of his friends that came to comforthim, began to take their la?t leave of him.—Vergerius, among the rest, required, That-attheir parting they might pray together withbiim.I Spira consented hardly, and as unwillingly per¬formed : “ For, faid he, my heart is estrangedfrom God ; I cannot call him Father from myheart; all good motions are quite gene j myheart is full of malediflion, hatred, and blaf-phemy against God ! I find I grow more andmore hardened in hear:, and cannot stop myself.Your prayers for meihall turn to your own profit,they cannot do me any good.”Vergerius then came to take his leave of him;whom Spira embracing, faid, “ Although I knowthat nothing can bring any benefit to me a repro¬bate, but that every thing (hall tend to my deepercondemnation ; yet I give you most hearty thanksfor your kind offices of love and good-will; andthe Lord return it unto you, with a plentifulincrease of all goed.”[ 24 3The ruxt day being brought down for his in-tended journey, by the way, looking round abouthim, with a ghastly look, he L.v a knife lyingon a table, to which he running hallily, fnatchedhold of it, as intending to do himself mischief;but his friends laving hold of him, Hopped himin his purpose. Whereupon, with indignation,he faid, I know God will not have mercy on me.Thus went he homewards, often faying, 1 hathe envied the condition of Gain and Judas.He lay about eight weeks in this condition,in a continual burning, neither deiiring, nor re¬ceiving any thing but by force, and that withoutdigestion, fo fpent, that he appeared a perfectflceleton, nothing appearing but iinews and bones,vehemently raging for drink ; ever pining, yetfearful for living long ; dreading hell, yet covet¬ing death, in a continual torment, yet his owntormentor. And thus consuming himself withgrief and horror, impatience and desj air, likea living man in hell, he represented an extra¬ordinary example of the justice and power ofGod, in punilhing apoftacy.And thus, within a few days after his arrivalat his own home, he departed this life.From this we ought to remember, that fecretthings belong unto the Lord our God : and thatthat those who put their trust in him {hall neverbe confounded: “Bor mercy hath he ever; andhis grace faileth n^ver.’1FINIS.Falkirk—7'. Johnston. Printer.