KEYTO OPENJIEAVEN's GATEl* OR,A READY PAHI-WAYTO LEAD TOEl E A V E N.Written and Publifheclj ; Ftr the Benefit of all true Chr tfiians.i BYMrt LAURENCE PRICE.S T I R L i N G:Printed and fold by C, Randall._ lu1804.ft.■1i‘f'> cL c1AKETTO OPENHEAVEN’S GATEEAR and beloved Chrifiians. I wo-uldhave)iou this much to underhand, thatall thofe that have a defire to go to heaven,rnuft well and wifely endeavour themfelvcsto folio'V this path way.Firit, Thou mult firlt remember, that ourbleffed Saviour lays, ‘ I am the-door : by meil any man c.ite'r ia he fhali be fuved : andfhall go in and out and find pafture,* John:: 9. Again he (ays, ‘ Knock, and it Hullbe op! ned to you.—To him that knocketh,it (hall be opened, Matth. vii. 7, 8. Now*you fee there is no way of getting into hea«ven but by Jefus Chrift the Saviour, who is;*■ i he way, the truth, and the life.' The Break¬er who L:is gone to heaven as our Fore-run¬ner, after he had cfiered himfelf a facrifice totthe law and JuOdce of God for our iniquity.Therefore all who pfofefs to believe in himfc r tigh eoufnefs and flrength, and as all theiiGlvation and all their delire, will find himthe true Key to open heaven’s gate : But ingoing to .he gate of Heaven, you muft ob>ierve the following regulations which thtKing q{ heaven hath laid down for all thofifirftA KE.Y to open HEAVEN. 3FIrft, Thou mufl: truly and unfeigned!y <labour to ferve God, and to- obey his coni-mandments; which is a duty that ought to .be done without delay : For he that is alive „to-day; may be dead before to-morrow andt;it will be too late to look tfter a way at death .that you have never fought after in time ofhealth and (frength. * Seek the Lord while ^he may be found, call upon him while he is inear. Ltt the wicked forLke his way, andthe unrighteous man his thoughts ; and let . ’him return unto the Lord, who will have1 imercy ; and to our God who will abundantly ^pardon.* For he is a God of truth, juflice^ >'peace mercy and love ; and willeth not that .any fhould perifh but that they (l ould re- ,pent and return unto him that they may ]obtain cverlafting life.Secondly There is another duty to be per¬formed by all that would tind the ready way *to heaven : You mult love your Chriftiaa 'brethren and neighbours, and cherifh and ‘comfort them; and not-di^htdwrangle, fcold, 1fight, and go to law, until you have ruined 'fthem : For they that do fuch things, are gone '. far cut of the way to heaven Remember "therefore what our Saviour ChrhT faith inthe Gofpel; ‘ A new commandment give 1unto y< u : fee that yen love one another.’For if ye love not your neighbour, whom]you fee every day, how can you love God cwhom you never law ? Therefore confirier, 1• , and*’i4 A KFr TO OPENmd fake heed in time what you do ; he thathateth his neighbour, hateth his biother jand he that haieth h’s broiher hateth God jand he that hateth God, will never find theway to heaven. Therefore let all them thatare called bv the name of Chriffians fhewthemfc'ves like Chriflians, liying afide allh?'red, fpite, envy, malice, lying, Hander,ba- kbiting. hypocrify and diflimulation. andwithal to break Inch bread as you would havebroken ; and likeyvife to do ui ro all men asyou would they fhculd do unto ’iou Thisto be fure is the nearefl way to heaven, butmore than this is tq be done, before ye cometo your journey’s end You muff np nt ofall your fc’nmr iniquities ; you mull do goodto them that have done evil to you ; and youmu ft forgive them their trefpiftes, rs youlook to be forgiven at the hand of God.And fo far n uft yc ur minds and hearts begiven to quietnefs that you muft not fo muchas let the bun go down upon yeur wrath :* For vengeance is mine, lakh the Lord, andI will repay it *Thirdly, Every Chriftian ought at all timesboth early ar>d late, to pray unto the Lord,that he will add a blefting to their endeav¬ours ; and the better to be employed, let thanfollow after God’s preacheis, and hear thempreach and teach, that are both able and w il¬ling to declare the word of God unto themlo by degrees they fhall find the mercie-HE WFN’s cm'. ‘cf the Lord redoubled unto thein t and there;by they, (hall be brought to tipen«rs of tin.,deiftandinp, whereby to know and diftin.guifh between gocd and bad, vthich m.ty bea great furtherance to them in their wayto heaven. True knowledge is of inch ex¬cellent virtue, that it is fufiicient to ‘..fying,us acquainted h-ith the principle things that,are to be had in this Hfej arid' after this fifejis ended it Audi bring our fculs into ever-,lafting happintfs. True, knowledge makestyou underhand, that God the Fat'hcr created;ns ; that God the Son redeemed us . and thatGod the Holy Ghoft. fanfirfieth us, and pre-ferveth all thofe that truly believe tint JefusjChrilt fullered ceath upon the crofs, to fiveour fculs Ircm the tyranny of the devii, andfrcm the torments oi hell i as you .may read,in Matth. xiii where it is faid, * Bit fled are,your eyes lor they Tejf ^ and ycur cars fortthey hear ; and your hearts, for they under-T{land.* And to be brief, true knowledge andkundeiAanding may very well be termed, j‘ A Key to open the gates of heaven * tt hen, wbat man cr woman will be fa jwilfully blind, as to negltd the feeking afterluch an excellent virtue ? Yet theie ?re fome,and too many, in thtfe Anliil and wickedtinus, that are fo carelefs and regardlefs, thatthey had rather chufe to follow the vain de* -ligtits and pleafures of this wicked world^-than to Fcek for the redemption of their fouls'5r. 13 ■MM> A KEY TO OPESand the joys of heaven hereafter which curSaviour Chrift purchafjd wirh his moft pre¬cious blood. Some there are lifcevrife, thatbear a (how cf Godiinefs* and yet they can¬not fpare one hour in the cay to hear a goodfermon, or to ferve God in. Others there are,that do utterly deny’ and as it were, make afcofF ofthc Scriptures of truth : 3ut i wifhthat all fuch perfons would confider, that atthe lad, it will be faid te i'udj ‘ Behold yedefpifers! wonder and periib !” J^fus Chridthe righteous Judge ot ati the v^orld, (hallfay unto them, ‘ Depart from me, ye worker*o( iniquity : For if you bslieve not Mofes andthe prophets, neither will ye believe thoughone rofe from the dead.’And now, beloved Chridians I would haveyou to confider and think on this, That theda^ of judgment is near at hand, and everyfoul (hall dand at the bar of arraignment,before the righteous Judge , and to render up anaccount of all th'eir deeds and aftions, goodand evil j and then fhall the good beftveredfrom the bad ; and the good, with joy andtriumph, be received into everlalting happi-nefs j and the wicked be cad into utter dark,nefs, where nothing elfe is to b& heard crfeen, but weeping, howling, and' gnafhing©f teeth. Moreover, l would have you con¬fider, that at the general judgment, there arenone to be exeriipted oi excuftd from com.ing to this bar j and every one (hail b,e forcedtoHEAVEN’S GATE.>to appear in their perfons : the rich and thepoor, the king and the beggar, the ftrongnd the weak the bound and the free, allmud come, w hether they will or not j forGod hath no refpeft of perfons : And at thatgreat and notahlt day of the Lord our God,there is no delays to be made. There Hullbe no lawyers to plead for you, for everyone (hall have work enough of his own todo ; neither lhall there be any bribes accep¬ted of: Therefore prepare for that awfuilday that the wrath of the Judge may beprevented while you may and provoke no!God to anger, left your fouls perifh in hi:difpleafure.And for your further inftru&ions I wouliwifh you all to be well advifed, and to foiknthe dodlrine and counfel of the apoftle Pan‘ Put on, the breaft plate of righteoufnefsand have your feet fliod with the preparatiotof the gofpel of peace ; taking up the fiiiehof faith, and the helmet of falvation.* Anbeing thus armed, you need not fear all thenemies that ever can aftault, or come againycu, as you may read in Eph, vi. 14 15* i£How to come by this armour, and how tufe it, you muft learn that of your Captaithe Leader Jefus Chrift, who fullered maqperfecutions when he was upon earth ; fucas hunger, cold, banifhmtnt, fcorning aqtaunts, whipping and buffeting, fpitting cthe fir:e, and at hft nailed to the exofs atpiorc-7TML X to opm HE WEN..reread to the heart with a bloody fpearjn all which afili^ions he was never 1'etn tos.ook on his enemies with a Frowning brow,foor to give them an angry word : ind whenhe was crucihed. he took all things patientlyand prayed for his enemies faying ‘ Father,forgive them, for they Icnow not what theyttq,* . ind with his lafl breath he cried,* Father into thy hands l commend my fpirit/'Hms was our Saviour. Jefus Chrift, madeafuff^ref for your fake, and all thefe tormentsfid he undergo while he was on earth, to,‘.each us the way to heaven ; and this hathV? purchafed with his mofl dear and preciousHood, to fave us from the torments of hell.Wl after that Chrift had lufFered the fharp.'.efs of deatii he arofe irom the dead, and'[cended into heaven, where he continues, make iflterceffion for tranigreffors, at hisathcr’s right hand, till all his people arewrought to heaven. Therefore, to conclude,once more intreat you all never to leave offrafbfmg thefe holy duties which 1 have fetchore you, that you may f|nd the way toeaven. For bieffed are they only, whopiuiaue ftedfilt to the end. Amen.FINIS.