theBATTLECONTAINING, TUEDuke of Wellington’s DispatchTo Earl Bathurst,ALSO, •THE FLIGHT FROM BIUfs,SELS<AND AVisit to the field of Battle,With a Descriptiw olThe Engagement;AND AVISIT TO THE FRENCH HOSPITALS*.STERLING:PimmiD AND SOLD BY ll. EANOAtjjf T OF SCOTLAND rJI3UKE OF WELLINGTON'SDISPATCH,: .•< . r-■•r4l (. M S.'l '*g "•' Sh’’ Bl _TO EART BATHURST.Waterloo, Jane 19th 1S1J,My Lord,BUONAPARTE having collected the 1st, 2d, 3d,1th and 6th corps of the French army, and the Im¬perial Guards and nearly all the cavalry, on theSambre, and between that river and the Meuse, be¬tween the 10th and the 14th of the month, advancedon the 16th and attacked the Prussian posts at Thu-iii and Lobez, on the Sambre, at day>light in themorning.1 did not hear of these events till the evening ofthe 15th, and I immediately ordered the troops toprepare to march; and afterwards to march to theleft, as soon as I had intelligence from other quar¬ters to prove that the enemy’s movement uponCharleroi was the real attack.The enemy drove the Prussian posts from theSatnbre on that day; and General Ziethen, whocommanded the corps which had been at Charleroi,retired upon Fleurus; and Marshal Prince Blucherconcentrated the Prussian army upon Sombreffe,holding the villages in front of his position of St.Amand and Ligny.3The enemy continued his march along the roadfrom Charleroi towards Brussels, and on the sameevening, the 15th, attacked a brigade of the armyof the Netherlands, under Piince de Weimar, post¬ed at Frasue, and forced it back to the farm houseon the same road, called Les Quartre BrasThe Prince of Orange immediateK reinforced thisbrigade w'th another of the same division, underGeneral Perponcher; and, in the morning early, re¬gained part of the ground which had been lost, soas to have the command of the conimunicadon lead¬ing from Nivelles and Brussels, with Marshal Blu-cher’s position.In the meantime I had directed the whole armyto march upon Les Quartre Bras and the 5th divi¬sion, under Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Piccon,arrived at about half-past two in t.)»e day,-foiluyredby the corps of troops under th e Duke ui'fSyvmswick,and afterwards by the contingent of Nassau.At this time the enemy commenced an attackupon Prince Bluchcr with his whole force, except¬ing the island 2d corps; hhd a corps of cavalryunder General Kelierman, with which he attackedour post at Les Quartre bras.The Prussian army, .maintained their positionwith the;r usual gallantry and perseverance, agaicsta great dispaiity of numbers, as the 4th corps oftheir army, untier General Bulow, had not joined,and I was not able to assist them as I wished, as Iwas attacked myself, anu the troops, the cavalry inparticular, which had a long distance to march, hadnot arrived.We maintained our position also, and completelydefeated and repulsed all thfe enemy’s attempts toget possession of ij. The enemy repeatedly attack¬ed us with a large body of infantry and cavalry,supported by a numerous and powerful artillery ;lie made several charges with the cavalry upon ourinfantry, but all were repulsed in the steadiest man¬ner. In this affair, his Royal Highness the Princeof Orange, the Duke of.Brunswick, and Lieutenantfieneral Sir Thomas Picton, and Major-GeneralSir James Kempt, and Sir Denis Pack, who wereengaged from the commencement of the enemy’sattack, highly distinguished themselves.The troops of the fitlh division, and those of theBrunswick corps, were long severely engaged, and- conducted themselves with the utmost gallantry. Imust particularly mention the 28th, 4-2d, 78th, andf)2d regiments, and the battalion of Hanoverians.Our loss was great, as your Lordship will per¬ceive by the enclosed return ; and I have-particu-iarly to regret his Serene Highness the Duke ofBrunswick, who fell, fighting gallantly, at the headof his troops.Although Marshal Blucher had maintained hisposition at Sombref, he still found himself muchweakened by the severity of the contest in whichhe'had been engaged, and, as the fourth corps hadnot arrived, he determined to fall back, and con-oer(rated his army upon Wavre; and he marchedin the night after the action was over.This movement of the Marshal’s rendered ne»-cess ary a corresponding one on my part; and Iretired from the Farm cf Quartre Bras upon Ge-nappe, and thence upon Waterloo the next morn¬ing. the 17th, at ten o’clock.i'he enemj' made no effort to pursue MarshalBlucher. On the contrary, a patrole which I sentto Sombref, in the morning-, found all quiet, and(lie enemy’s videttes fell back as the patrole ad¬vanced. Neither did he alter.•>t to molest ourmarch to the rear, although maile in the middle ofthe day, excepting by following with a large body5; ' of cavalry (qrou»1it from hii right) the cavalryunder the Earl of Uxbridge.This gave Lord Uxbridge an opportunity ofcharging them with the 1st Life Guards, upon theirdebouche from the village of Genappe, upon whichoccasion his Lordship has declared himself to bewell satisfied with that regiment.The position which I took up, in front of Wa¬terloo, crossed the high roads from Charleroi andNivelle, and had its right thrown back to a ravinenear Merke Braine, which was occupied, and itsleft extended to a height above the hamlet Ter laHaye, which was likewise occupied. In front ofthe right centre, and near the Nivelle road, weoccupied the house and garden of Hougoumdnt,which covered tl\e return of that Hank; and in frontof the left centre, we occupied the farm of La HaveSainte. By our left we communicated with Mar¬shal Prince Blucher, at Wavre, through Ohfim :ami the Marshal had promised me. that in case weshould be attacked, he would support me with oneor more corps, as-might he necessary.The enemy collected his army, with the excep¬tion of the third corps, which had been sent to ob¬serve Marshal Elucher, on a range of heights inI our front iu the course of the night of the 17th andyesterday morning; and about ten o’clock he com-i menced a furious attack uoon our po;t at Hougou-mont. I had occupied that post with a cletarfi-ment from General Byng’s brigade of 1 uards,which was in position near its rear; and it was forsome time under the command of Lieutenant Colo¬nel Macdonald, and afterward-1 of Colonel Home ;and I am happy to add, that it was maintained,'hroughout the day; with the utmost gallantry bythevo i^-ave troops, notwithstanding the repeated,i cl torts d Wjre bodies of the cnetny to obtain nes-1 ses-ston of a."-I-  _  (5This attack upon the right of our centre was aC'companied by a very heavy cannonade upon ourwhole line, which was destined to support the re¬peated attacks of cavalry and infantry occasionallymixed, but sometimes separate, which were madeupon it. In one of tliesc, the enemy carried thefarm house of Hayc Sainte, as the detachment ofthe light battalion of the legion which occupied ithad expended all its ammunition, and the enemy oc¬cupied the only communication there was with them.The enemy repeatedly charged our infantry withhis cavalry; but these attacks were uniformly unsuc*cessful, and they afforded opportunities to our ca¬valry to charge in one of which Lord E. Somer¬set’s brigade, Royal Horse Guards, and first Dra¬goon Guards, highly distinguished themselves; asdid that of Major General Sir W. Ponsonby, havingtaken many prisoners and an eagle.These attacks were repeated till about seven inthe evening, when the enemy macte a desperateeffort with the cavalry and infantry to force our leftcentre, near the f»rm of Haye Sainte, which,after a severe contest, was defeated; and havingobserved that the troops retired from the attack ingreat confusion, and that the march of Genera!Bulow’s corps by Fritchermont upon Planchenoifand La Belle Alliance, had begun to take effect ;and as I could perceive the fire of his cannon, andas Marshal Prince Blucher had joined in person,with a corps of his army to the left of our line byChain, I determined to attack the enemy, and im¬mediately advanced the whole line of infantry, sup¬ported by the cavalry and artillery. The attacksucceeded in every point; the enemv was forcedfrom his position on the heights, and fled in the ut¬most confusion, leaving behind him, as far as fcoidd judge, ope hundred and fifty pieces of '•*n*ournon, with their atn&umttan, whic'i fell intohands.I continued the pursuit till long after dark, andthen discontinued it, only on account of the fatigueof our troops, who had been engaged during twelvehours, and because I found myself on the sameroad with Marshal Blueher, who assured me of hisintention to fellow the enemy throughout the night:he has sent me word this morning, that he hadtaken sixty pieces of cannon belonging to the Im¬perial Guard, and several carriages, baggage, &c.belonging to Buonaparte, in Genappe.I propose to move this morning upon Nivelks,and not to discontinue my operations.Your Lordship will observe, that such a despe¬rate action could not be fought, and such advan¬tages could not be gained, without great loss ; and,I am sorry to add, that ours has been immense.In Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Pictoa, hisMajesty has sustained the loss of an officer whohas frequently distinguished himself in bis service ;and he fell, gleriously leading hi§ division to acharge with bayonets, by which one of the most se¬rious attacks made by the enemy on our position,was defeated. „The Earl of Uxbridge, after having successfulygot through the arduous day received a wound byalmost the last shot fired which will, I am afraid,deprive his Majesty for some time of his services.His Royal Highness the Princa of Orange dis¬tinguished himself by his gallantry and conduct tillhe received a wound from a musket ball, throughthe shoulder, which obliged him to quit the field.It gives me the greatest satisfaction to assureyour lordship, that the army never, qpon any oc¬casion, conducted itself better. The division ofGu^ds, under Lieutenant General Cooke, who i.sS ' /KcvcrcTy wounded, Mnjo’.' Gencr;, Maitland, andMajor Byng, set an example which was followedby all; and there is no officer, nor description cntroops, that did not behave well. 1 am aUo par-'ticularly indebted to Gene cal Lord Hill, for his as¬sistance and conduct upon this, as upon ail formeroccasionsI should not do justice to my feelings or toMarshal Blucher anti the Prussian army, if f didnot attribute the successful result of this arduousday to the cordial and timely assistance receivedfrom then;.The operation of General Billow upon the ene¬my’s flank, was a most decided one ; and, even ifI had not found myself in a situation to make theattack, which produced the final result, it wouldhave forced the eaemy to retire, if his attacksshould have failed; and would have prevented himfrom taking advantage of them, if they should un¬fortunately have succeeded.I send with this dispatch, two eagles, taken bythe troops in this action, which Major Percy willhave the honour of laying at the feet of his RoyalHighness—1 beg leave to recommend him to yourlordship’s protection.I have the honor, &c.(Signed) WelUngtoP.To his brother he afterwards wrote,—*' Neveriisd 1 fought so hard for victory,—and never, fromthe gallantry of the enemy had 1 been so near beingbeaten. In a letter to his mother, Lady Morning-ton, the Duke of Wellibgt«n says of Buonopartc—“ That he did his duty—that be fought the battlewith infinite skill, bravery,and perseverance;—andthe victory is solely to be ascribed to the superiorphysical force, and constancy of BritLh soh,-v,'s-’FLIGHT FROM BRUSSELS.SOME of the families of the first respectability,whom I hail occasion to mention before, as being mjanxious so get over to the Continent in time to bepresent.at the opening of the campaign, were atBrussels on the eventful Saturday, ^as is by nomeans improbable,) when the Prussian horsemencame galloping into the town, cutting their horseswith tlieir sabres to expeditate their flight; I think itvery likely that they would lose no time in turn¬ing 'heir faces again to their own happy country,and be glad to mix with the promiscuous throng.Sunday came, and the battle about nine miles offbegan to roar. It was described by the inhabitantsof Brussels as one uninterrupted peal of thunder intheir ears for eight hours.“ Then great events were in the gale,“ And each hour brought a varying tale.”But the fears of the inhabitants always made theFrench successful ' hat then must they have feltwhen the English baggage passed through Brussels;and ’Crowded the road to Antwerp. No wonderthat the rumour was then believed that the Frenchhad gained a comnlete victory. The entire popula¬tion were now to fly a satisfactory piece ol evidence;of no great attachment to the French. We arelost, we are lost, was the only cry to be heardamong tne inhabitants My friend resolved on flighton his lady’s account, and had the extraordinaryfortune to reach Wechline, about i5 miles, unhurt*They got a place in the track boat on the fcaral;and being close to the road, saw all its horrors;M hen horses fell, the. waggon wheels crushed the10jider; baggage was thrown off, and carried away"by the peasants, to be cut open and plundered.Great sums of money were in this way lost: andclothes and other property spread over the fields.An English Officer, who had lost a foot, and wasearricd on his servant’s back came and begged tobe „aken into the boat. He was known to my friend,■who. although the passengers, intent on self-preser¬vation opposed it, by absolute fores obtained hisadmission. At Mechline, they found it very diffi¬cult to obtain admission into a house; and the dif¬ficulty was increased when the people were told thatthe lady was ill. Most providentially they procur¬ed a carriage to Antwerp next day. On their arriv¬al there, they heard an altercation between theircoachman and a woman on the top, whom he hadtaken up, and would not let down fill she paid afranc. They found this poor woman to be the wi¬dow, newly so made, of a soldier killed at QuatreEras; and the mother of a child which she had theclay before seen crushed to death by a waggonwheel! Many cf the wounded were travelling thesame road, some had lost a hand or an arm; thou¬sands were on foot; and all sorts of carriages andhorses crowded the road, and increased the danger.The scene was beyond description horrible: but afeeling of terror and self-preservation much dimin-shed the concern for the sufferers—This is verycommon in the horrors of w ar. The persons crush¬ed in the flight.to Antwerp, were thrown into theditches. The confusion was dreadful: yet no oneh^d seen a single Frenchman!What then must have been the feelings of the poorgardener at Hougomont, at the time be was obligedto remain close prisoner in bis garden, in the midstof the carnage, because, (as he candidly avowed),when the battle was begun he could not ventureHout of it—of the farmer Laceste, in his pinioned sit*nation beside Buonaparte—or, if I may venture soto speak, of the commandant of that nameless corpsof Gentlemen light horse volunteers, when he re¬ceived the unwelcome hint from Lord Wellington’said-du-camp, that an opportunity occured for themto charge the French cavalry; their colonel, in greatsurprise objected the enemy’s strength -cuirasses,-and the consideration, which had unaccountably,he said, escaped the Commander in chief, that hisregiment were il all gentlemen ! J’* This divertingresponse was carried back to Lord Wellington ; whodispatched the messenger again to say that if thegentlemen would take post upon an eminence,which he pointed to in the rear, they would havean excellent view of the battle; and he would leavethe choice of a proper time to charge, entirely totheir own sagacity and discretion* in which he hadthe fullest confidence. The colonel actually thank¬ed the aid-du-camp for this distinguished post ofhonor, and followed by his gallant train, with theirvery high plumes, (the present great point of con¬tinental military foppery), was out of danger in amoment.VISIT TO THE FIELD OF BATTLE.IN the course of the Monday, the news of thedefeat of the French arrived ; and on the followingday my triend and his wife returned to Brussels.On the Wednesday he visited the field of Waterloo.His acoount of it is dreadful i—The first thing whichstruck him at a distance, jwas the quantity of capsand hats strewed on the ground. It appeared as ifthe field had been covered with crows When he‘ ; J2- ' .came to the spot, the sight was truly shocking: Att rsf there Was a dreadful preponderance of Britishslam, which looked very ill; but more in advance,the revenge made itself dreadfully marked, forfen, Ficnch lap dead for one British. The field'.vas so ruuc'i covered with blood, that it appeared |as :f it had been completely flooded with it; dead |horses seemed innumerable;—and the peasantryemployed in burying the dead, generally stript thebodies first Of Course these people got a vastbooty, when they returned out of the neighbour¬ing wood, after the battle; many of them somehundred pounds. A great quantity of cap plates,cuTas es Sec. were taken by them and sold as relics.We returned to the tree, and directed our stepswestward, to go along the British line to the right.J1 ere was no difficulty in tracing the line by-thegraves of tire brave men who had fallen where theywere first posted. The sutvivors never quitted it,but to aL’vat'cc*. The very ground wTas hallowed;l>Ut it was trode by us with respect and gratitude;the multitude below, so lately interred, occasioneda very inapre, sive subject of reflection.No one, w ho has not seen it, can imagine howtouching it was to see, strewed around their graves,fragments of what the brave men wore or carriedwhen they fell. Among the straw of the troddendown corn which still covered tire field, lay caps,shoes, i i< cos of uniforms and shirts, tufts, cockades,feathers, ornamental horse-hair red and black, andwhat most struck us, gnat quantities of tetters, andleaves .of books. The latter wore much too far de¬faced by rain and mud, to make it w< r:h cur whiletojlift a’ny of them. In one letter, w e ci ul i justmake cut the words, so affecting in their circum¬stances, “ My dtm hutbahd/’13The tr#ct over which the gliard moved* a«<over which they fled, was still, when we passed it,covered with their spoil, and marked with horses'feet, cannon wheels, and the deeper furrows ofballs and bombs. Ponsonby fell hereA thousand French dead, alone, lay on this spot;and even yet it exhibited holsters, (one we observ¬ed which had been filled with blood) standard hold¬ers, pieces ot bridles, straps, girths, &c. all denot¬ing a tremendous coaflict of cavalry ; and thecaps of the grenadiers of the French guard, lay yefin considerable numbers, with rags of their uniforms.Some more affecting remains were also there, piecesof tartan, and of black ostrich feathers : the plaidsand plumes of Scotland.Arduous and painful, indeed, must have been thatstruggle, in which upwards of 200,000 men on bothsides, were engaged in the work of death for nineor ten hours.—We may read’ly conceive what ahorrible thing it would be, to behold two columnscf infantry charging one another in the greatestfury, with the bayonet, and occasionally pounmjwell-directed vollies cf musketry into each othersranks ; but such were the deadly visits of the can¬non and cavalry on that dreadful day, that theauthor whom we have so largely quoted, was repeat¬edly assured by officers with whom he conversed,tiiat these interludes of infantry battle were a kind ofrefreshment, after their toil with other arms. Itreed not then be wondered, that Marshal Nsy, in!)«letter to the Duke of Otranto calls it a teiriblebattle, and tire most frightful carnage ever he hadwitnessed; and that it was said o! the Duke of Wcr.-lington, that often he had prayed in agony duringthe dreadful conflict, for the Prussians on the night.Put horrific as the spectacle ot Held of battlenmust be, when covered with the dying and the dead;and the dreadful sufterings to which the actual com¬batants are necessarily exposed; there are otherpainful emotions—there are other evils attendant ona state of warfare, which humanity has cause to de¬plore. What, for instance, must the neighbouringinhabitants feel, w u reside in a country immediate¬ly adjoining the seat of war? ‘ How dreadful ’’saysthe judicious Hall,' “ to hold every thing at themercy of an enemy and to receive life itself as aboon dependant on the sword ? How boundless thefears which such a situa*ion must inspire, where theissues of life and death are determined by no knownlaws principles or customs and no conjecture canbe formed of our destiny except as far r s it is dim¬ly decyphered in characters of blood in the dictatesof revenge, and the caprices of power. Conceivebut for a moment the consternation which the ap¬proaches of an invading army would impress on thepeaceful villagers in this neighbourhoou. Whenycu have placed yourselves, for an instant, m thatsituation, you will learn to sympathise with thoseunhappy countries which have sustained the ravagesof arms. But how is it possible to give you an ideaof these horrors?—Here you beheld rich harvests,the bounty of heaven and the reward of industry,consumed in a moment, or trampled under foot;while famine and pestilence follow the steps ofdesolation —'i here the cottages of peasants givenup to the flames; mothers expiring through fear,not for themselves, but their infants; the inhabitantsflying with their 'helpless babes in all directions,miserable fugitives on their native soil!-—In anotherpart you witness opulent cities taken by storm ; thestreets, where no sounds were heard but those ofpeaceful mirth and contentment, filled on a suddenwith slaughter and blood, resounding with the cries!15of the pursuing and the pursued; the palaces ofnobles demoli bed, the houses of the rich pillaged,the chastity of virgins and of matrons violated; andevery age, se'x, and rank, mingled in promiscuousmassacre and ruin.’>Description of the Battle of Waterloo,By an Officer present.As we stood on our commanding «pot, the firstthought was most naturally of the numbers of thecontending armies respectively. The British werestated by Buonaparte himself, at 80,0©0 and cer¬tainly they have never been made out to have beenmore. Marshal Blucher estimates them at thesame number. Of these not more than 30,000were actually British; the rest were Germans, Bel¬gians, and Dutch. There were assuredly no corpsof Prussians in the battle before the evening.The French army certainly were 130,000* mak¬ing the enormous balance in their favour of 50,000men ; and, be it never forgotten, all French, andthe best troops in Fiance.In truth, the British army were a mile and ahalf from the nearest skirts of the wood, and nev¬er had one man within it; and so far from beingcrushed and overlaid, the masses, and of the Frenchguard too, were often routed by the bold dash ofan almost incredibly small proportion of their num¬bers,—nay sometimes, as will afterwards be toldof the Highlanders and Scotch Greys, and it hap¬pened in many other parts of the held besides,* According to the account given of the Port Folio,found in Buonaparte's carnage, he passed the Frenchfrontier milk 110,000 men only.-16by the prodigies of nearly insolatod/individual va*lour.Buonaparte knew the number of his alreadydevoted adversaries well; and, with his usual pre¬sumption, expressed great astonishment to seetheir undismayed front on that side if the forest.His fear was, that they would escape him in thenight; and he eac'aimed on first seeing their orderof bittle with the.dawn—“ Ah! IJrave them then,these English !”The r ^uiar battle, it is well known, commen¬ced by the almost simultaneous advance f and wedistinctly saw their course) of three entire corpsd’armce on the right, left, and centre, of the Bri¬tish line. The attack on the right had for its firstobject the carrying ot the post of Hougoumont, thekey of the position : in possession of which, theFrench, could have turned the British right. Thatcolumn had shortest way to move; and, underKing Jerome, it was there the cannon and mus¬ketry f rst began.1 he uimost success of probably 30,000 men was,obliging the light companies of the 1st 2d and 3dfoot guards, under tiro .command of Lord Saltoun,to take refuge within the post, instead of defend¬ing the small wood, on the outside of it. Thepost itself was never occupied by the enemy fora moment. . fhe guards kept, in spite of grape,and musketry, and balls, and shells, and flames;till they issued from it victorious in the hour ofvengeance.The corps d’armee destined for the left, (the6th) soon arrived in the first attack in that quar¬ter about the centre of the British left wing; butw^re calmly received and repulsed, by the admir¬ably served artillery, and by the 42d 79th andg2d Highlanders, supported, it is believed, by the1st and SStii rc-gimcrits, under the lamented •SirThomas Pictor. The whole slope was in our view.Nothing could be more tremendous than the modeof attack ; it was headed by artillery, which dis-S charged showers of iron grape shot* eacdi bullet! larger than a walnut. It was a battle, on the partf of the French, of cavalry and cannon, both equip-ed as if by magic, and much more formidablethan had ever been known in the French armies,p even to take the field.Heading these columns were the. iron cased cuir¬assiers, in as complete mail, breast and back, as inthe days cf that defensive armour upon whichthe musket balls were heard to ring as they glan¬ced off, without injuring or even stunning the wear-er. These men at arms had immense infantrycolumns of support at their backs.A. stunted hedge bounded each side of a narrowcross road which ran along the whole of the Bri¬tish left wing, joining the great road near theDuke of Wellington’s tree, already mentioned,fn the hedge there were a number of gaps, whichhad been made to serve as a kind of embrasures fora line of the British cannon of the left wing; anda tnfling bank only here and there, two er threefeet high, on which the hedge grew, and in whichapertures for the guns were cut where necessary,was the only thing resembling shelter, which anyportion of our artillery enjoyed'V hen the cannon and infantry had staggered themasses of the enemy, and somewhat calmed theiriury; round the extremity of the cross road, fullon the Hank 6'fthe foe—horse, in perfect condition;men, in steady determination—wheeled, like awhirlwind, the Royals Greys, and Enniskillens—England, Scotland, and Ireland, in high rivalryand irresistible union. In vain, for the second tims'*ISthe iron cases, their cannon was deserted and tak¬en ; and the columns of infantry were thrown intosuch confusion, that they had just time to get be¬yond the range of the prudent pursuit of their ad¬versaries, whose warfare was yet defensive. Thedragoons and infantry, with their captured cannonsand eagles, calmly returned to their place in posi¬tion, to await the next advance of the enemy.If our present ground had the wxH-fought roundnow faintly described, in full view; so had Napol¬eon's station, about a mile along the road fromwhere ws stood, With the poor farmer Lacostcpinioned on horseback beside him, stood the Em¬peror, unable to conceal bis astonishment at therecoil, and almost flight, of his best troops; andconstrained in spite of himself* repeatedly to mut¬ter compliments to the spirit; rapidity, and steadi¬ness of the British cavalry ;—“ These British fightadmirably,” said he to Soult; “ but they must giveway.”—“ No, sir, they prefer being cut tq pieces,’*was the answer of him who knew something of them.The grey horses especially struck him, and he oitenrepeated, “ What fine troops!”The attacks now described, we are told, mightserve as a fair specimen of the reiterated war duringthe entire day. From eleven in the morning tillseven at night, it consisted of a succession of suchassaults, with unabated fury, and increasing num¬bers, and often with a boldness and deadly effect,which perplexed our soldiers, and put their match¬less firmness to the utmost trial. It may be believ¬ed that every fresh onset swept away multitudesof our infantry; still the survivors gave not an inchof ground, but made good the lines, and firm jthesquares.—No men in Europe could hare enduredmore than they did —Again and again the enemy’scannon rebounded from their adamantine front, cl is-19waved and scattered. These were the breathingtimes of our heroefr ! Line was with admirable ala¬crity formed for a greater breadth of fire than thesquares afforded, immediately on seeing the backplates of the cuirasses; when masses of French in¬fantry approached with a heavy fire of musketry,They did * go through their workj’ as Napoleonoften muttered, ‘ unlike any troops he had ever seen.’Such were the dreadful visits of cannon and cavalry,that, as I have been assured, these interludes ofinfantry battles were a kind of refreshment, aftertheir toil with other arms.—They never took thetrouble to look at the numbers; they felt as if boyshad attacked them, merely to keep them in wind;and invariably routed the columns by a very fewsteps in advance with pointed bayonets.The Duke, in visiting different points was oftenreceived with a shout of impatience to be led on.The gallant 95th were very tired of the iron cases,and the iron grape shot. An immense body ofFrench infantry happened to approach that nobleregiment at one time when the commander was pay¬ing them a visit; “ Let us at ’em; my Lord,’’ letus down upon ’em,’’ quite regardless of their num¬bers. “ Not yet,” replied the chief, “ not yet myb’ ave men, but you shall have at them soon ;|firma little longer; we must not be beat; what wouldthey say in England ?’’From our advantage ground we had gained a verysatisfactory general idea of the field, and beforesetting out on a circuit of more minute inspection,went down to the farm house of La-Haye Saint, toexamine the state in which the conflict had left thatpost. Much of the wreck of the battle lay betweenthe Duke of Wellington’s station and the farm¬house, which manifested the hazard to which hehad been exposed. It is just an ordinary farm hoiueana cnurt or ofticee. The house farms one side of:> square and the offices the other three; the courtyard, collecting the manure in the middle, aodsl. d-tering the cattle. The side opposite to the hou^eis a long building for cows; the passage being sep¬arated from the cow’s stalls by £ parapet abovefour feet high. At each end of the passage is alarge door or gate, both of which were literallyriddled with musket balls, fired from within, andfrom without, as could easily be distinguished fromthe kind of hole the ball had made. The. bodies,after the action, were heaped up in the cow’s stalls,as hlj.h as the parapet. The whole farm house,yard, and offices, might have afforded rodm for1000 or 1500 men to act. They had made holesfor musketry all around the building; and many ahole had been made for them by the enemy. Thewhole presented a scene of shattered ruin, whichcould not be looked upon without a degree of in¬terest amounting to terror. It stood a noble monu¬ment of the determined valour of our Germanbrethren in arms.Some very poor children who seemed to starveabout the ruins soon joined us. and began to begmoney from us with most persevering importunity.Their miserable appearance was in perfect agree¬ment with the scene of desolation about them. Wesaw no grown people who seem’d to have any in¬terest in the place.Having succeded in opening the shattered doorwhich led out to the fields to the west, we saw sev¬eral women still engaged in the lately most lucrativeoccupation of gleaning up any thing which theycbuld sell to strangers. The same persons had, veryprobably, been active in stripping and plunderingthe slain. We asked them where they were duringhe action?—“ All in the wood.”—.Did the; heat21the noise;—The answer was a shrug ami loo!; ofdreadful recf*llecti6n. They seemed to be findingvery little worth taking up. We were ourselves,at the moment, more fortunate, for among somei straw, and plainly marked with blood, we found a; French bayonet, which we brought away with us.If the unknown dead called forth these feelings,much more did the consciousness of standing onthe spot, where some one, known to us, had“ nobly fought and nobly died ” vVe stood wherei then interesting Sir William de Lancey met hisdeath, when rallying, with great spirit and effect, abattalion of Hanoverians, which had got into con¬fusion. He nobly refused to occupy the time ofthe surgeons with his wound, which he had heardthem pronounce mortal, when they thought him in¬sensible. He was removed to the village of Water¬loo, where he died. That gallant young man’searly name, and just favour with his great com¬mander, excited general and deep regret for hisfate; and no where more than in Edinburgh, wherehe had been married only a few weeks before.Indeed the instances of heroic death were as num¬erous as they were affecting. ColonSl Miller ofthe first Guards requested a last sight of the coloursunder which he had fought. He kissed them fer¬vently, and begged they might be waved over himtill he expiredThe lamented Captain Curson, Lord Scarsdale’sson, met his fate with almost “ military glee.” Infalling from his horse, he called out gaily to LordMarch, who was riding with him at a gallop—Good b’ye, dear March.” And by one effortmore, when his friend had left him for the urgentduty of animating a foreign corps, in very criticalcircumstances, helooked up, anti cried, “ Well done,dear March,”62The afflicting idea strongly occurred, of the nextday’s horrors of such a field as Waterloo. Num¬bers of the desperately wounded and dying, in themidst of the dead, raised their heads, when visitorsto the scene passed them, to implore water, or tobeg at their hands to end their agonies. Many efthe'wounded were not removed till Wednesday,the third day after the battle.The 12th light dragoons was posted near thePrince of Orange. Their charges were of the mostspirited kind; and nothing but the cuirasses enabledthe French dragoons to resist them. In the accountof so much pure valour without trick or cover, a-gainst so much iron, it is not difficult to decide wherehonour would award the balance. Many brave menwere sacrificed to the iron cases, and taffeta flagswhich frightened their horses. A gallant youngfriend of mine own, Mr Elliot Lockhart, eldest sonof the member for Selkirkshire, lay near- the spotwe had now reached. He had just joined the 12thdragoons, and in the first charge of his regiment,in which he bore a very distinguished part, receiv¬ed a wound which was instantly fatal. There wasa melancholy satisfaction in beholding the spot ofhis honorable grave; a prouder sepulchre the turfon which the soldier falls, than the proudest mau¬soleum on consecrated ground.No part of the field was more fertile in impres¬sive associations, than the ground of the 30th and73d regiment*, brigaded under our gallant coun¬tryman, severely wounded in the battle, Sir ColinHalket. I had already heard much of the firmnessof these brave troops; and was to hear still more.To no square did the artillery, and particularly thecuirassiers, pay more frequent and tremen-'ous vi¬sits ; and never was it shaken for a moment Thealmost intimacy of the soldiers with these death-23bringing visitants, increased so much as the dayadvanced, that they began to recognise their faces.Their boldness much provoked our men. Theygalloped up to the bayonet points, where of coursetheir horses made a full stop, to the great dangerof pitching their riders into the square. They thenrode round and round the fearless bulwark of bayo¬nets ; and in all the confidence of panoply, oftencooly walked their horses, to have more time tosearch for some chasm in the ranks, where theymight ride in. The balls absolutely rung upontheir mail; and nothing incommoded the rider,except bringing down his horse, which at last be¬came the general order. In that event he sur¬rendered himself, and was received within thesquare, till he could be sent prisoner to the rear;—a generosity ill-merited, when it is considered thatthe French spared very few lives, which it was intheir power to take. Many officers were murdered,after giving up their swords; and when prisonerswere collected, cavalry were sent to cut them down,when circumstances at the moment prevented theirremoval! A young officer of the Greys, well knownto the author, was shot by a French officer whoselife he had preserved. The object of the French¬man was to make his escape, fie did not effecthis purpose ; being overtaken and cut to pieces bythe enraged soldiers.Visit to the French hospitals.Beyond the citadel is the Corderie, a buildingconstructed by Buonaparte^ as a rope-work, 1300feet long, to give space for a cable of a first-rateship of war. It was fitted up as the hospital of a-bout 1500 of his wounded soldiers, prisoners ofwar.2*The wholq immense length of this place wasopen, and the beds were arranged in four rows,from end to end. We walked generally unnoticedby their occupiers, up and down the lanes between;and equally disregarded, frequently stept over abed, or passed between two, when going from onepassage to another It was impossible to imaginetwo aspects of human lot more strikingly contrast¬ed, yet more forcibly associated, than the spectaclewhich these unfortunate enthusiasts presented now,and their confidence and fury but yesterday ; theirsubmissive tranquillity in their flannel gowns andcaps in the hospital, and their noise and cuirassesin the field.Death was at work here, more manifestly thanwe had observed among the English wounded. Oneman was pointed out who had tossed his amputat¬ed arm in the air, with a feeble shout of “ vivoI’ Emperuor.” Another, at the moment of the pre¬parations to take ofThis leg, declared that therew’as somethtog he knew of that would cure him onthe spot, and save his limb and the operatorstrouble. When asked to explain this strange re¬mark, he said “ a sight of the Emperor ln Theindispehsible amputation did not save him he diedin the surgeon’s hands ; and hi* last words, sted-fastly looking on his own blood, were, that bewould cheerfully shed the last drop in his veins forthe great Napoleon ! A singularly wild, and almostpoetic, fancy, was the form in which a third borehis testimony ; he was undergoing, with greatsteadiness, the operation of the extraction of a ballfrom his side, and it happened to be the left; inthe moment of bis greatest suffering, he exclaimed,“ an inch deeper, and1 you’ll find the Emperor.”FINIS.