THECOMICATL TRICKSOFliOTHIAN TOMWITH A SELECTION OFAITECDOTES.9oo^ s djiw hriB no 1‘jii *£1“! th' rFalkirkPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.• •i3 j ."S i. £ TL lE j*THECOMICAL TRICKSliOTII S A ]1T TOM.This Thomas Black, vulgarly calledLothian Tom, because he was of thatcounty, was born about four miles fromEdinburgh; his father being a wealthyfarmer, gave him good education, whichhe was very awkward in receiving, being avery wild mischievous boy.When he was about ten yeais of age, hewas almost killed by the stroke of a horse’sfoot, which his father had who had a trick ofkicking at every person that came behindhim. Hut when l orn got heal of the dread¬ful wound, whereof many thought he wouldhave died, to be even with the horse, he getsa clog, or piece of tree, which was full ofwooden pins, such a thing as the shoemakersuse to soften their leatheron, and with a ropehe tied it to the couple-bauk in the stabledirectly opposite to the horse’s tale, thengets3on the bank, and gives it a swing, so t/iat thepikes in the end of it, came with fu)l driveagainst the horses backside, which madehim fling, and the more he fleng and struckat it, it rebounded back, and struck himagain ; the battle lasted with great fury tora long time, which was good fun for Tom,until his father hearing some noise in theatable, came to know t//e matter, and wassurprised to see t//e poor animal tanning' /nsown /ude, wit/< Ais legs all cut and bloody !he cut tAe rope and tAe battle was ended ;but tAe poor Aorse would never afterwardskick at any tAing tAat came beAind Aim.It Aappeneii one day tAat Tom went afisA-ing. and brougAt Aome a few small fisA,w/dcA Ais grandmotA r's cat snapt up in tAedark. So l orn to Aave justice of tAe cat forso doing, catcAes Aer, and put Aer intoalittletub, or cog, tAen sets /o r adrift in a smallmill-dam, ordering Aer to go a fisAing forAerself; tAen set two or tAiee dogs upon Aer,and a most terrible sea flgAt ensued, as everwas seen on tiesA water; for if any of tAedogs, wAen attempting to board Aer, set uptAeir noses, baudrins came flying to tAatplace, to repulse tAem witAAer claws ; tAentAe vessel was like to be o\ erset by tAe weigAti of Aerself, so sAe Aad to flee to the otAer, andfinding the same iAere from tAence to tAe| middle, wAere sAe sat mewing always turn-4ing herself about, combing their noses withher foot. The ohl woman being informedof the dangerous situation of her dearly be¬loved cat, came running with a long poll tobeat off the dogs and haul her ashore. Whatnow, says Tom, if you be going to take partwith my enemies, you shall have part of theirreward ; then gives the old woman such apush that she tumbled into the dam overhead and ears, beside her beloved cat, andwould undoubtedly have perished in the waterhad not one of the people who was theie look¬ing at the diversion, come to her relief.After this Tom was sent to school to keephis hand out of an ill turn ; and having an oldcanker ’d, crab-willed fellow for his dominie,they were always at variance ; for if Tomhad got his whips, which he often deserved,he was sure to be revenged upon his masteragain for it. So Tom perceived his masterbad a close-stool in a little closet within theschool, where he went and eased himselfwhen need was: Torn gets a penny-worthof nun-powder, and sprinkled it on theground directly before the seat, and lavs alittle of it along in a train to the fireside;then perceiving when his master went intoit, and as he was loosing down his breechessets fire to the train, which blew it all aboutIris master’s backside, which scorched himterribly, besides the fright, for which Tom5was severely Avbipt Yet, in a little after,be began to study revenge on bis master.So it happened one day as Tom was inthe master’s house, his wife was stooping intoa big meal barrel, to bring out some meal;then he takes her by the feet, and eouj s herup into tiie ban el, with her head down andI her bare backside uppermost; then runs intoI the school, crying O master, master ! the1 de’il’s looking out o’ your meal stand ; wi’ aifat face and a black ill-far’d mouth; yon’sjust Auld Nick if he be living. So themaster ran out with all speed he could, fori| to see what it was ; and found it to be hisown wife speechless, and almost smothered: to death ; but as she could not tell who did it,S Tom got clear off: yet he was not satisfiedni without some more revenge on the old fellow :(and knowing his master had a fashion, wheni he was going to whip the boys if they wouldnot loose their breeches willingly, he drewShis knife and c.it them thro’ the waistband:behind : so 1'om goes to a butcher, and'Hgets a raw pudding, and fills it with blooduand writer, and puts it within the waistband(of his breeches, then goes to the school nextIday, and as his master was sitting with hisaback to the fire, Tom lights a piece of paper,uand sets his wig in a low, which burnt forsometime unperceived, until the flames cameufizzing abou his ears ; he first put out the6flames by tramping on the wig, and beinginformed that Tom did it, flies to him in arage, ordering him to loose his breeches, butTom told him he was never so mad —Thenhe drew his knife, whips poor Tom over hisknee, and with a great si niggle cuts thewaistbaud of his breeches ; but thro’puddingand all, so that the blood gushed out, andTom cried out Murder! Murder! Murder! Jand down he fell.The poor Dominie ran out of the schoolcrying ami wringing his hands. Word flewabout that he was slicked by the Dominie,whice made the people come running fromseveral parts of the country round about tosee how it was : but upon searching him,they found the empty pudding, which dis¬covered all the fraud. Then two men hadto get horses ami ride after thepoor Dominie,■who had by this time got two or three milesaway ; and when he saw them riding afterhim crying to stop and come back again,he ran the faster until he could run no more,but fell down on the road, and prayed themto let him go, for, if he was taken back, hewas sure to be hanged ; ami would not bepersuaded that Tom wt s alive, until theyforced him back and he saw him. But hewould be Tom’s teacher no longer; so Tom’sfather had to seek another master for him.1,PART ir.- -jfii ion [ipj\ odf? /i9vi^ > 01 thijsThere was a youn^1 woman, servant toTom’s father, whom Tom had offended by: some of his tricks, and she. to be up withTom again, one night spread a handful ofi short nettles in his bed, between the sheets,j which stung his legs and thighs si) much1 that he was obliged to quit his bed for somepart of the night, for such he resolved to berevenged whenever a proper opportunityI offered. It happened in a few days after,that she was invited to a wedding, where thedancing and diversions induced her to stayfall night, and on coming home in the morn-1 ing, she fell a-washing some clothes; but|jj being fatigued with her night's diversion and: for want ot rest, fell fast asleep with her hands| extended in the tub, and standingon her feet,u with her belly leaning on the tub ; Tomper-ficeiving this, slips her petticoat and smoker over her head, facing the highway ; several1 people passing by, while she continued ’nthis posture, some of them werediverted withI the sight, and others were ashamed at it;' but a poor cadger had the misfortune to becoming that way at the time, and his horsetaking fright at this unusual sight thiew ofhis creels, and broke the poor man’s eggs allto smash ; which so enraged him that he8lashed her buttocks with bis whip, in suchan unmerciful manner, that with the smartand shame together, she had not the leastinclination to sleep for the remaining part ofthe day.Torn being grown up to years and age ofman, thought himself wiser and slyer thanhis father : and there were several thingsabout the house which he liked better thanto work ; so he turned to be a dealer amongstbrutes, a cowper of horses and cows, &c\,and even wet ware, amongst the brewersand brandy shops, until he cowped himselfto the toom halter, and then his parents wouldsupply him no more. He knew his grand¬mother had plenty of money, but she wouldgive him none ; but the old woman had agood black cow of her own, which Tom wentto the fields one evening and catches, andtakes her to an old waste house which stoodat a distance from any other, and there hekept her two or three days, giving her meatand drink at night when it was dark, andmade the old woman believe some body hadstolen the cow for their winter’s mart whichwas grief enough to the old woman, for theloss of her cow. However she employs Tomto go to a fair th«t was near by, and buy heranother ; she gives him three pounds whichTom accepts of very thankfully, and pro¬mises to buy her one as like the other as9possibly he could get; then takes a pieceof chalk, and brays it as small as meal, andsteens it in a little water, and therewith rubsover the cow’s face and back, which madeher baith brocket and rigget. So Tom inthe morning takes the cow to a public housewithin a little of the fair, and left her till thefair was over, and then drives her home be¬fore him ; and as soon as they came home,the cow began to rout as she used to do, whichmade the old woman to rejoice, thinking itwas her own cow, but wdien she saw herwhite, sighed and said, /lias ! thpu’lt neverbe like the kindly brute my Black Lady,i ami yet ye rout as like her as ony ever I did1 hear. But says Tom to himself, ’tis a mercyr you know not what she says, or all would be| wrong yet. So in two or three days the old| woman put forth her braw rigget cowin the[jd morning with the rest of her neighbours’1 cattle, but it came on a sore day of heavyt rain, which washed away all the white from1 her face and back ; so the old woman’s BlackL Lady came home at night, and her riggetI cow went away with the shower, and wasnever heard of. But Tours father havingsome suspicion, and looking narrowly intotne cow's face, found some of the chalk not' washed away and then he gave poor Tom ahearty beating, and sent him away to seekhis fortune with a skin full of sore bones.10PART III.Tom b£ing now turned to his own shifts,considered with himself how to raise a littlemore money ; and so £,ets a string as nearas he could guess to be the length of hismother, and to Edinburgh he goes, to awright who was acquainted with his fatherand mother. The wright asked him how hedid ; he answered him, very soberly, he hadlost a good dutiful mother last night, andthere’s a measure for the coffin. Tom wentout and staid for some time ami then comesin ag'ain, and tells the wright he did notknow what to do, foi his father had orderedhim 10 get money from such a man, whomhe named, anil he that day was gone out oftown.—The uright asked him how much hewanted ? To which he answered a guineaand a half. Then Torn gave him strictorders to he out next day against eleveno’clock with the coffin, and he should get hismoney altogethf r. Tom set off to an ale¬house with the money, and lived well whileit lasted. Next morning the wright and histwo lads went out with the coffin ; and asthey were going into the house they metTom’s mother, who asked the master howhe did, and where he was going with thatfine coffin ? not knowing well what to say,11beinp surprised to see her alive, at last hetold her, that her son brought in the measurethe day before, and had got a guinea and ahalf from him, with which he said he was tobuy some necessaries forthefuneral. O therogue! said she, has he play’d me that?So the wright got his lent money, and somuch for his trouble, and had to take backhis coffin with him again.Tom being short of money, be^an to thinkhow he could rahea fresh supply; so he wentto the port among the shearers, and there hehired about thirty of them, and agreed togive them a whole week’s shearing at ten-pence a-day v\ hich wastwo-pencehlgherthanany had got that year ; this made the poorshearers think he was a very honest generousand genteel master, as ever they met with ;for he took them all into an ale-house, andgave them a hearty breakfast. Now saysTom, when there is so many ofyou together,and perhaps from very different parts, andbeing unacquainted with one another, I donot know but there may be some of youhonest men and some ofyou rogues ; and asyon are all to lie in one barn together, anyof you who has got money, you will be surestto give it to me, and i’ll mark it down inmy book, with your names, and what [ re¬ceive f rom each of you, and you shall haveit all again on Saturday night when you12receive your wages. O! very well good-man, there’s mine, take mine said every onefaster than another. Some gave him five,six, seven, and eight shillings, even all thatthey had earn’d through the harvest, whichamounted to near seven pounds sterling.So Tom hat ing got all their money, he goeson with them till about three miks out oftown, and coming to a field ofstnnding corn,though somewhat green, yet convient for hispurpose, as it lay at some distance from anyhouse ; so he made them begin work there,telling them he was going to order dinnerfor them, and send his own servants to jointhem. Then he sets off with all the speedhe could, but takes another road into thetown lest they should follow and catch him.Now when the people to whom the corn be¬longed, saw such a band in their field theycould not understand the meaning of it: sothe farmer whose corn it was, went of cryingalways as he ran to them, to stop ; but theywould not, until they began to strike at themand they at him, lie being in a great passion,as the corn was not fully ripe ; at last, byforce of argument, and other people comingup to them the poor shearers were convincedthey had got the bit, which caused them togo away sore lamenting their misfortune.Two or three days thereafter, as Tom wasgoing down Canongate in Edinburgh, he13meets one of the shearers, who knew andkept fast by him, demanding back hismoney, and also satisfaction for the rest.Whisht, whisht, says Tom, and you’ll getyours and something else beside. So Tomtakes him into the jail, and calls for a bottleof ale and a dram, then takes the jador aside,as if he had been going to borrow some moneyfrom him ; and says to the jailor, this manis a great thief, I and other two have beenin search of him these three days, and theother two men have the wairant with them ;iso if you keep this roguo here till I run andbring them you shall have a guinea in re¬ward. Yes, says the jailor, go, and I’llsecure the rogue for you. So Tom got off,leaving the poor innocent fellow & the jailorstruggling together, and then sets out forEngland directly.PART IV.Tom having now left his own native'country, went into the county of Northum-Iberland, where he hired himself to an oldmiser of a farmer, where he continued forseveral years, performing his duty in hisservice very well, though sometimes playingtricks on those about him ; but his masterihad a naughty custom, he would allow14them no candle at night, to see with whenat supper. So Tom one night sets himselfnext his mpster, and as they were all aboutto fall on, Tom puts his spoon into the heartof the dish, where the crowdy was hottest,and claps a spoonful into his master’s mouth.A pox on you for a rogue, cried his master,for my mouth is all burnt. A pox on youfor a master, says Tom, for you keep a houseas dark as Purgatory, for I was going tomy mouth with the soup, and missed the way,it being so dark, don’t think master, that Iam such a big fool as to feed you while l havea mouth ot my own. So from that nightthat Tom burnt his master’s mouth witn thehot crowdy, they always got a candle to showthem light at supper, for his master wouldfeed no more iu the dark while Tom waspresent.There was a servant girl in the house,who always when she made the beds neglect¬ed to make Tom's, and would have him do ithimself. Well then, says Tom, I haveharder work to do, and I shall do that. too.So next day when Tom was at the plough,he saw his master coming from the house to¬wards him, he left the horses and the ploughstanding in the field, and goes away towardshis master. Who cried, what is wrong? oris there any thing broke with you ? No,no, says Tom, hue I am going home tomake my bed, it has not been made thesetwo weeks, and now it is about the time theI maid makes all the rest, so I’ll go and make1 mine too. No, no, says his master, go to; your plough, and I’ll cause it to be made! every night. Then, says Tom, 1*11 ploughI two or three furrows more in the time, soTom gained his end.One day a butcher came and bought a fine1 fat calf from Iom‘s master, and Tom laidit on the horse’s neck, befoie the butcher:when he was gone, Now, says Tom, what' will you hold master, hut Til steal the calffrom the butcher before he goes two milesKofi? Says his master, Til hold a guinealiyou don‘t. Done, says Turn. Into the.I house he goes, and takes a good shoe of hismaster‘s and runs another way across a field,till he got before the butcher, near the cornerof a hedge, where there was an open andturning- of the way ; here Tom places him-*self behind the hedge, and thiows the shoe(into the middle of the highway; so, whenthe butcher came up riding, with his calfbefore him, Hey, srid he to himself, there'sa good shoe ! if 1 knew how to get on mycalf again, 1 would light for it, but vrhatsignifies one shoe without its neighbour ? Soon he rides and lets it lie. i'om tfen slipsiiout and takes up the shoe, and runs across(the fields until he got before the butcher, at16another open of the hedge, about half a miledistant, and throws out the shoe again onthe middle of the road ; then up comes thebutcher, and seeing it, says to himself; nowI shall have a pair of good shoes lor the lift¬ing ; and down he comes, lays the calf onthe ground, and tying his horse to the hedge,runs back thinking to get the other shoe, inwhich time, Tom whips up the calf and shoe,and home he comes demanding his wager,which his master could not refuse, being sofairly won. The poor butcher not findingthe shoe, came back to his horse, and miss¬ing the calf, knew not what to do; butthinking it had broke the rope from aboutits feet, and had run into the fields, thebutcher spent the day in search of it,amongst the hedges and ditches, and re¬turned to Tom’s master’s at night intendingto go in search again for it next day : andgave them a tedious relation how he came toloose it by a cursed pair of shoes, which hebelieved the devil had dropped in his way,and taken the calf and shoes along with him ;but he was thankful he had left his old horseto carry him home. Next morning Tomset to work, and makes a fine white face onthe calf with chalk and water: then bringsit out and sells it to the butcher ; which wasgood diversion to his master and other ser¬vants, to see the butcher buy his own calf17lagain. No sooner was he gone with it, bjitITom says, now master, what will you holdhut I’ll steal it from him again ere he goestwo miles off? No, no, says his master, I’llhold no more bets with you ; but I’ll givetyou a shillingifyou doit. Done, says Tom,it shall cost yon no more ; and away he rims{through the fields, unt il he came before theimtcher, hard by the place where he stole thei'lpalfifrom him the day before ; and there helies down behind the hedge, and as thenutcher came past, he put his hand on hismouth and cries baw, haw like a calf’. TheIputcher hearing this, swears to himself thatI1 here was the calf’ he had lost the day before,town he comes, and throws the calf on theifround, gets thro’ the hedge in ail haste,idiinking he had no more to do but to take itlip ; but as he came in at one part of thetiliedge, Torn jumped out at another, and getsidle calf on his back ; then goes over theliedge on the other side, and thro’ the fieldslie came safely home, with the calf on hisalack, while the poor butcher spent his timemnd labour in vain, running from hedge toioijledge, and bole to hole, seeking t^e calf.$o the butcher returning to bis horse again,ilnd finding his other calfgone, heconcludedaliat it was done by some invisible spirit,(bout that spot ot ground ; and so wenthomeo lamenting the loss of his calf. When Tom18got home he washed the white face off thestolen calf, and his master sent the butcherword to come and buy another calf, whichhe accordingly did in a few days after, andTom sold him the same calf a third time,and then told him the whole affair as it wasacted, giving him his money again. So thebutcher got fun for his trouble.PART V.There was an old rich blind woman, wholived hard by, that had a young girl, heronly daughter, who fell deep in love wnthTom, and he fell as deep in love with themonev, but not with the maid. The oldj 7woman gave Tom many presents, andmounted him like a gentleman; but heused every method to put of the marriage,pretended he still wanted something, whichtiie old woman gave the money to purchasefor him, until he had got about thirty poundsof her money and then she would delay themarriage no longer. Pom then took the oldwoman and girl aside, and made the follow¬ing apology : Madam, said he, I am verywilling to wed with my dear Polly, for sheappears as an angel in my eyes, but 1 amsorry, very sorry to acquaint you, that i amnot a fit match for her. What, child, says' 19tlie old woman, t here is not a fitter match inthe whole world for my Polly, I did not thinkourcountry could afford such a clever youths what I hear of you to be, you shall neitherant gold nor silver, nor a good horse toride upon, and when I die, you shall have|my all.O but, says Tom, Madam, that’s notthe thing, the stop is this : When 1 was in^Scotland, I got a stroke from a horse’s foot,rpn the bottom of the belly* which has quitedisabled me below, that I cannot perform ainusband’s duty inbed. Then theold womanilrdapt her hat ds and fell a crying, O ! if itma I been any impediment but that, but that,(but that wofu’ that! which gold and silvercannot purchase, and yet the poorest peoplethat is common begyars have plenty of it.The old wife and hei daughter sat cryingHand wringing their hands, and Tom stoodland wept, lest he should get no more moneyf.x said Polly, mother, I’ll wed him never¬theless, I love him so dearly ! No you fool¬ish girl, said her mother, would you marry afman and die a mai l ? You don’t know theipnd of your creation ; it is the enjoyment ofi man in bed that makes women to marry,vhich is a pleasure like Paradise, and if youved this man you will live and die,and never>5’eel it. H oo, Hoo, says Torn, if I had gotHnoney 1 needed not been this way till now.:20money you fool, said the old woman, there’snot such a thing to be got for money in allEngland. Ay, says Tom, there’s a doctorin Newcastle, will make me as able as anyother man for ten guineas. Ten guineas,said she, I’ll give him fifty guineas if he will,but here is twelve, and go to him directly,and see what he can do, and t hen come againand wed my child, or she and I will both diefor thy sake. lorn having no>v got twelveguineas more of their money, got all thingsready, and early next morning set out forNewcastle, but instead of going there hecame to old Scotland, and left Polly andher mother to think upon him. In abouttwo weeks thereafter, when he was not liketo return, nor so much as any word fromhim, the old woman and Polly got a horse,and c.iine to Newcastle in search of him,went thro’ all the doctors’ shops, asking ifthere came a young man there, about twoweeks ago, with a broken   to mend?Some laughed at her, others were like tokick her out of doors, so they hail to returnwithout getting any further intelligence ofh i m.Now after Tom’s return to Scotland, liegot a wife, and took a little farm near Dal¬keith, and became a very douse man, formany years, following ids old business, thecouping horses and cows, and feeding veals21for the slaughter, and the like. He went: one day to a fair and bought a fine cow from(an old woman ; but Tom judged trom thelowness of the price, that thecowhad certain-|jly some very great faults. Torn gives thewife the other he irty bicker of ale, then sayshegudewife the money is yours and the cowI is mine, you maun tell me ony wee faults ithas, Indeed, says the good wife, she has naf! faut but ane, and if she wanted it, 1 wadi never a parted wi’ her. And what’s thatngudewife, said he. Indeed said she, theli filthy daft beast sucks ay herScT. But saysjl ioni if that be all, I’ll sor n cure her ofthat. O ! can you do’t, said she, if I hadikent what wad don’t 1 wadna sold her. A-1 well, says Tom, I’ll tell you what to do, tak’the price I gave you just now, aid tie it hardHand fast in your napkin, and give it to' me,through beneath the cow’s wame, and I’llgive you the napkin aga n o’er the cow’sHback, and I’ll lay rv-.y life for it, that she’lljinever suck hersel, in my aught. 1 wat wellj;|said she I’se do that, an’ there should be^witchcraft in’t. So 'I'om got it thro’dbelow the cow’s wame, he takes out hisjmoney, and gave tire wife her napkin overI the cow’s back, as he promised, saying,HNow, wife, you have your cow and I mylimoney, and she will never suck herself inrny aught, as I told you. O dole ! dole !cried the wife, is that your cure? you’vecheated me, you’ve cheated me.Tom bein^-verv scarce of money onetimewhen he had his rent to pay, and tho’ lie waswell acquainted with the butchers in Edin¬burgh, and tried several of them, yet none ofthem would lend him as much, lie was knownto be such a noted sharper. So Tom con¬trived a clever trick, to give them all thebite in general, who thus ref used him j in hecomes next day, (for they had all heard ofthe fine calf he was feeding,) and tells oneof the butcher’s who dealt with him that hewas going to sell the calf he had at home.Well said the butcher, and what will youhave for it? Just thirty h've shillings, saysTom, No, says the butcher, but by whatI hear of it I’ll give you thirty, Na, saysTom you must remember, that it is not thepiice of it, but you may give me twentyshillings just now and send out your lad to¬morrow, and we’ll perhaps agree about it.Thus fom went through ten of them in oneday, and got twenty shillings from each ofthem, and kept his speech against the law,for whatever they offered him for his calf hetold them to remember, that was not to bethe price of it, but give me twenty shillingsjust now and send out your lad to-morrowand perhaps we will agree, was ail that pass¬ed. So Tom went home with his ten poundsesland paid his rent. Early next morning theffleshers came to Tom’s house for the calf,land every one called for his calf, but Tomhad only one to serve them all. Now, saysITom, whoever will give most, and speediestshall have it, I will put it to a roup. What,said one of them, my master bought it yes¬terday. Then, said Tom, you woidd be aIgreat fool to buy it to-day, for it is fashiousto lead and heavy to carry.ANECDOTES.MARCH OF INTELLECT.!Two country carters, passing the entranceo the Arcade, Argyll street, Glasgow, ob-erved painted on the wall, “ No Dogs tonter here.” “ No dogs to enter here !”exclaimed one of them, Tm sure there’snae use for that there.” “ What way,Jock, ye’re may be wrang, Tse warran yegentle folk’s dogs ’ill ken’t brawley, forIthere’s schools, noo, whar they learn theJdumb baith to read and spe »k.21HOW TO READ A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland Drover passing through acertain twon, noticed a Sign-hoard above anentry, with the following inseription :Green Teas, It aw Sugars, Marmalades,Jellies, Capped Biscuits, and all sorts ofConfectionary Goods, sold down this entry,read it as follows :Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids,Jades, Scabbed Bitches, and all soits ofConfusionary Goods, sold down this entry.ADDITION.A farmer’s son, who had been some timeat the university, coming home to visit hisfather and mother ; an 1 being one nightwith the old folks at supper, on a couple ofth.rulesoffowls he told them, that bylogic and arithmetic, he could prove thesetwo fowls to be three.—“ Wed, let us hear,”said the old man ; “ Why tnis,” said thescholar, “ is one, and this,” continued he,“is two, two and one you know make three.”— ‘‘ Since ye hae made it out sae weel,”answered the old man, “ your mother shallhae the first fowl, I’ll hae the second, andthe third you may keep to yourseli.”