GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. and M, ROBERTSON,Saltmariict, ?8ca.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,The Roving MAIDS of Edinburgh.(the sweet temptation.THAT’S THE REAL DANDt.JN AN NY' OF THE H I L L.( *. )THE INJURED FAIR.COME lafles liftcn unto me,in country, town, and city,l.ct my downfal a caution be,to blooming maids fo pretty.I am a poor anhappy girl,upon the town applying,Beca'Ufc I did believe faife man,full of deceit and lying.CHORUS.So pray remember pretty maids,how often ye are warned.For when men once get their ends,by them you will be fcorned.Such flatteries to me he us'd,and-prefects 1 had many,Although I’d twenty for toxhufe,I lov’d him be ft of any.Blythe as-thc lark l was till he, . .cf every joy bereft me, '3>ut when be had his will of me,he went away and left me. So pray, &c.With arm around me on his knee,li^e Judas he would kifs me, .And wifli d the happy day to fee,in marriage for to blefs .me :But, O alas! The treach’rous youth,"moft trcaeh*rous did feduce me,And when I afle’d him for 10 wed,he like a rogue refus'd me«So pray remember pretty maids, See,Then of his conqueft he did boaft,in man you know Vis common.And brag'd to his companions <dl,Ixow he betray’d a woman :Howe’er he has my ruin been,and I’m undone for ever;So now can man ever expect,of woman any favour. So pray, &c.ill But yet I will not curfe the youth, .but this l wifn in brief, Sir,J That he may wed a drunken wife,then he’ll have whore and thief, Sir ;J Sufficient punilhment I vow,for any man alive, Sir ;^For he that's ty'd to fitch a Jilt,I'm furc can never thrive. Sir, Pray, &c,■Now this is all the harm I wiffi,what think ye of my prayer ?i A drunken wife to be the lot,of ev’ry maid’s betrayer.jA good wife is an ornament,and makes a husband prized.But may he get a drunken Jilt,and fee bimfelf defpifed, ,So pray remember pretty maids, &c.The Roving MAIDS of EDINBURGH.T! IIE roving maids ©f Edinburgh,they are both brifk and airy,They make young men to laugh at them,their head fo high they carry,Fal der lal, dcr ral tal.No^r behold thefe pretty maids,as they walk on the caufway.With ruiHc*cuffs and capuchins,and wow but they be fancy. Fal, &c.With j|ne net-hoods upon their heads,each flame a buckling comb O,'Which mounted is with filver bright,and fet with Brifto* Rone O. Fal, &c. |Their lockets fine that bright do Ihine,a glancing broach below it.Their bravitfe full well we fee,how proud they are to ihow it. Fal, &c.With new fhlhion’d caps of diff’rent fets, ,that are fo monftreus high O,Such fliury-gigs upon their heads,are frightful to the eye O. Fal der, &c.The other night I got fuch a fright,1 blefl me from all evil,Wi en a lady came in Riming robes,l thcuglu. if was-, the devil. Fa! der.( 5 )ifiVith a c#p more high than grenadiers,and hair dreft in fuch order,tfhe appeared like to Margaret's ghoft,corns from the Stygian border. Fal, &c. .With filken hofe and fine pink flioes,they are all trim'd and ready,It is not eafy for to knowa fcogie from a lady. Fai de ral, &e.!There's ladies bright fets out at night,their fign is a white apron.All in the dark to feck a fpark,and wha but our mifs Katharine. &c.Some laffes then l do offend,in telling of their knavery,For that’s the way I'm bold to fay,that you’ve won all your brav’ry, Fal, &c.The roving maids of Edinburgh,when they go to the dancing,I The young men all admire tne fport,they are fo neat and handfome. Fal, &c.It is well kent their face they paint,they are fo vain and idle,:To bulk and drefs mere time they pafs,than they do on their Bible. Fal de, &c.IWith muffs and iirls and cardinals,made of the fineft fcarlet,I They worn are, I do declare,by many common harlot. Fal «<%Their quality come ibow to me,you’ll know them by their cleiding;Dear neighbours then, I’ll tell you plain,you’ll find it by their breeding. Fal, &c»They curfe and fv/ear and domineer,and fwear like any randy,Their morning drink I really think,is whilky, gin, or brandy. Fal de, &c.Arid if they chance to prove with child,or lofe their reputation,.O then fets up a baudy houfe,and that’s their occupation. Fal de, &c.Such bawds and bullies now turn thus,obferve the difmal ftory.By hangy’s bands their lives they end.and that’s call’d Tyburn’s glory.Fal der ral, der ral lal.The SWEET TEMPTATION.A W ye the nymph whom I adore l^3 faw ye the goddefs of my heart ?And can you bid me love no mere ?and can you think 1 feel no fmart ?So many charms around her Ihine,who can the fweet temptation fly ?Spite of her fcorn, lire’s (6 divine,that i mult love her, tho* I die.(7 )That’s the REAL DANDY#H E cant word throughout the town^So fam’d and of fo great renown,i XN'iW (hortly be, I hope, pull’d ddwn,It took its rife from Brandy.1 The reafon is. eafy underftooJ,A cobler’s wife thought Nantz fo good,Who as fhe fip’d the pleafant food,Cry’d ifn’t that the Dandy.1 The Cobler pafEng by the fhop.To tafte the Cordial in did hep,i And finding Neil had got a drop.He fpy'd a flick moft handy.; And round the Beggar-maker's place,1 With it poor Nell he did fb lace,Till Hie with fad diftorted face,-Cry’d, jobfon that’s the Dandy.I Of this word he could make no fenfe,i So flraightway dragg’d his charmer hence,i But flrft he paid dtar twenty pence,IJ- That fhe had drunk Hi Brandy.And as he haul'd her through the ftreet, ~For fhe, the child, had loft her feet.To ever; perfon fhs did meet,'Cry’d that’s the real Dandy,i! A chimney fweeper heard the fun,! As be through the ftreet for foot did run,’Crying, fire and fmoke, we’re all undone**By drinking ftout at Brandy.( 8 XNANNY of the HILL.ASSIST me, ev'ry tuneful bard,oh lend me all your Ikill;In-choiceft lays, that I may praife,fweet Nanny of the hill,fweet Nanny of the hill.How gay the glitt'ring beam of morB,that gilds the cryftal rill!But far more bright than morning light,fliines Nanny of the hill. Dear, etc.The gayeft flower, fo fair of late,the cv’ning damps will kill;But every day more frefh and gay*blooms Nanny of the hill, blooras, etc*Old Time arrefts his rapid flight,and keeps his motion Ail),Rcfolved to fpare a face fo fair,wS Nanny of the hill. as Nanny, etc. tTo form my Charmer, Nature hasexerted all her (kill,Wit, Beauty, Truth and rofy Youth,deck Nanny of the hill. deck, etc.And now around the feAivc board,the jovial bumper fill.Each take his glafs to my dear lafs,fweet Nanny of the hill. Dear,etc.s*»lSG L A S G. O W,Printed by J. and M. Robertfon, Caltmarket, l8cJ 3