THECARDSSPIRITUALIZED:OR,The PACK of CARDSTRANSFORMED INTO ABIBLE, ALMANACK, and PRAYER.BOOK.To which is added,Mr DODD’s Sermon on MALT.STIRLING:Printed by C. Randall.2800.( 5 )The CARDS, We.NE Richard Middleton, a foldier, attending di¬vine fervice with the relt of the regiment at achurch in Glafgow, irftead of pulling out a bible likethe reft of his brother fbldiers, to find the parfon’stext, fpread a pack of cards before him ; this fingularbehaviour did not pafs unnoticed both by the clergy¬man and the ferjeantof the company to which he be¬longed: the latter in particular commanded him topr.t up his cards, and on his refufal cendufted him,after church, before the mayor to whom be preferreda formal complaint of Richard’s indecent behaviourduring divine fervice.Well foldier (laid the mayor) whatexcufe have youto offer for this ftrange, fcandrlous, indecent behavi¬our ; if you can make any apology or afilgn any rea-for it, it’s well; if you cannot, afilire yourfelf that Iwill c -ufe you to be feverd/ punithed for it. Sinceyour honour is o good (replied Richard) as to let mefpeak for myfclf, an’t ple.afe your wonhip,; 1 havebeen tight days upon the march with a bare aliow.ncecl fix pence a day, which your honour will furely al¬low is hardly (ufficiem to maintain a man in meat,drink, wafhing, and.other rectflan’es. ami confe-quertly’ be n,ay wart money fo purcliafi* a bible,prayer-book, or any other good bock On fayingthis, Richard drew cm a pack of cards, an 1 pr feu -ing one of the aces to the mavor, continued lyis ad-drefs to the magiftrate in the following manner, viz.when I fee anMay it plot fe your honour (continued Richard) itreminds me that there is but one God and fiuher ofall I have to adore and ftrye, one faith to believe,one truth to practife, one. baptlfnj to cleanfe me fromA C E,( 3 )original fin, and one only matter to ferve, love, andobev. TheT W O,When I look upon, reminds me of the two tetta-ments, viz tlv old and new, containing the l'w andthe gofpel, the two contrary principle' ft uggling inman, viz. virtue and vice •, atlo the two covenants, v>z.the covenant of works made with fiur firft parents inParadife, which tliey broke by giv ng ear to the de¬vil, and the covenant of grace made with Chrift, asalio the great mifery of being uncer the former, and; great happinefs being of the letter, iheT I I R E E,Brings to my mind the great love of the facredI trinity, the father, fon, and holy fpirit, ihformisgthe|| glorious plan ot man’s redemption, by the fufterings;■! and death of our blefTed Saviour Jeius (,’hrilt for curill falvation *, it likewife reminds me of the three theo-.i| logical graces, viz. faith, h pe, and charity, the threeI days that Jonah was in the whale’s beity, and the!: three hours our Saviour hung upon the ctoi's, and the| three days he lay in the heart of the earth, i lie¥ O U R,Calls to my mind the four holy evangelifts, viz.ill Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, as aifo the fourSfeatons of the year, the four theological virtues, thei^four lalt things,death judgment, heaven and hell. The¥ IV £. | Reminds me of the live ienfes given by Go l toliman, viz. hearing, feeing, tatting, feeling fmeliing, itlaho reminds r^e ot tiie live virgins that were orderedcto trim their lamps, (veur worlhip imy rpmemberithere were ten indeed) but live were fbolilh. iheb I X,Reminds me, that in fix day . Gnd created the^heavens, the earth, and the fea with al- things therein,Sit a: 10 reminds me of the fix cbriitia.i virtues, the fixpetitions contained in the Lord’s pray r, fche fix uaysijif the week that 1 have to work ipr my bread, and.< 4 )that I am appointed to keen t'le feventh holy. FheS E V E NT, . \That on the fevenih day God refted from all hisnr nki th*t hi* had made : by which conduit of myGou and S. v our, I learn .he great duty ar;d wifdomof ke^pinti hoG the fa'b t day: the fever planetstbr rule he <even days of the veek, tlae f ven ad-irfr.iftnna fpirf > that it n i before the throne of God,t'. c ft -a feols wi h which the book of life is fealed,the feven angels with the ieven vials to be poured outon the earth ; it ah > reminds me of the feven liberalarts Goo has endued man with and likewife the fe¬ven wonders of the world. TheEIGHT,Rerqin 's me of the eight riphteous perfons whowere prel rved fr >m the d uge of water, when thewhole world were cut if for their witkednefs. viz.Ncah and his w’ife, a id his three fons with theirw ves, as alfo it puts me in mind cf the eight alti¬tudes, the tight ':e ti'UuCS, the eight perfons mention¬ed in fertprure to oe releaied from death to life, fneN I N E,Puts me in mind of the mufes whofe harmoniousvoices are given to fing the praile of our God and Sa¬viour, it alfo reminds me of nine lepc s clear;fed byour Saviour (there were ten indeed cleanfeu) butyot r worfhip may remember one only return'd tooff r lus tribu e of praife to God for the wonderfulcure; the mne hierarchies, the nine noble orders a-mongft men. IheTEN,Brings to my remembrance the ten dreadful plaguesii >on L :;pt for their injuttree to lirati, and alfo ofthe te Gentile Sybils who foretold of our Saviour’sincarriuiion, life, death, refumffion and afeenfion torour f vat on, the ten cities in the plains of Sodomand -oieorrah deftroyed with fire and brimftonefr om . aven, and the ten tribes of Ifrael which were Jcut ofi lur their wifkednels, as alio it reminds me of ||( 5 )the ten commandments given on Mount 'unai by Godto man, which every good chnftian will reverenceand obey Richard further continued his obferva-tions on the ten. thusl an't pleafe your worfliip taobferve the folemnity with which all thefe command¬ments were delivered, none will dare to take God'sname in vain, when he plays at the cards, for that isan abfolute command of J‘ hovah, and indeed myord, I would not willingly ( tfend your worfliip, butI look on the man who blalphemes the name of Godto be worfe than the brute beafts, ‘or they never of¬fend thus ; fo that the profane fwcarer is beneath thebeaft, and worie than the devil, for he trcmbleth atthe name of God which lin.ntn ahufe without fear.Richard then took the Knave placed it by him, andpaft on to the Queen, on which he obftrved as fol¬lows : ThisQJLJ E E V, ,Said he, reminds me of the Queen of Sheba, whocame from the utternioft parts ot the emth to hearthe wifdcm of Solomon ; as alio her companion i heKING,R' minds me of my dury to the great King of heavenas alfo my allegiance to King George the fhiyd.Richard further obferved, when 1 look upon thefefour fuits of the cards, they prelent to me the fourprincipal religions that predominate in the world, viz.Chnftianity, Judailm, Mahometanhm, and Paganifm,when I look over the twelve court cards, they re¬mind me of the twelve patriarchs, from whom pro¬ceed the twelve tribes ot Ilrael, the twelve apoftie?,alfo the tweive articles of the Chriftian faith in whichI am bound to believeWell (returned the mayor) you have given a verygood defcription of a.l the cards except 1 heKNAVE,If your honour would not b^- angry with me (re¬turned Rrchara) 1 can give as good lat*sla£kion on( <5 )that as any in the pack : No, {aid the mayor, T willnot j well (returned Richard) the grea eh knave Iknow is the {erjeant who brought me before yourworlhip I don’t know', replied the mayor whetherhe be the greateh knave or rot, but I am lure he isthe greatell fooli he fokiier continued as follows, if your worfhipobferve again, you will find in the firlt place, thereare four luits in the card, that inti-n.ite the four quar¬ters in 'he year; then as there are thirteen cards ineach fuit, that is juft as many as th re are weeks inthe quarter; there are alfo as many lunations in ayear as there are cards iu a fuit; there are twelvecourt cards which intimate the twelve months of theyear, and the twelve hgns of the zodiack thro’ whichthe iun fleers its diurnal courfe during the fpice ofone whole year ; there are fifty-two cards in thepack, and that directly anfvvers the ex-uft numbet ofweeks in a year examine the cards a httle farther,and you wid lino as many Ipots in them as there aredays in a year, there being 365 ipots ; thefe i multi¬ply by 24, and then by 60, which brings me out theexa£t number of days, hours, and minutes in a >ear;f3o that on the‘whole, an’t phafe your worfinp, thisp^tck of cards is both a biole, an almanack, and aprayer book to me.>'he mayor was fo well pleafed with the ready turnsof wit and humour which he foun ' in the loldier,that he called his Tenant and o dereu him o enter¬tain the foWier Weil, and gave him a 'piece of money,a‘ d laid he was the ciererert fellow he ever heat a inhis lifel he ferjeant feeing the foldier he thought to getpunilhed lb highly praifed, took it fo to heart thatin three days after he died with grief.( 7 )Mr "Dodd’s curious Sermon on MALT*Mr Dodd livH TT“ar Carnbrid^s, and had offendedfome of the Cambridge fcholars, by preaching a-gainft dfnnkehheff. As fome of them were walk¬ing out one lav. and feeing the good old gentle¬man at fom" dh>a»;«ee, fsHoneto the other, there’sFather Dodd, we’i'i make hin preach a fermon ;when he dre • 'ear th y fflhted him with yourfefvant Father Dodd. Yoe-’s. Gentlemen, repli¬ed Mr Dodd >Ve v ' our to beg of you ;what is it replied Mr Dodd ■ f. v they, to preabhus a fermon ; he tells t' • t, pooint he time andplace I will; faid the ’ the time is the prefent, andthe place is yon hollow tree (pointing to c-tie in tbefield' and your text (hall he M ^LT ; that is animp-'fition, replied Mr Dodd; for there ihall beconfideration before pretching : but laid they, ifyou will not preach we will make you So whenMr Dodd got into the tree, he add refled them inthe following manner :Dearly beloved,1F,T me crave ynur lerious attention, for I am aj little man come at a (h"Tt warring, to preacha brief 1'ermon to a thin audience, in an unworthypulpit Now beloved; my tex is \1 AL h ; which Icannot ‘ivide into fentences, b caufe it contains none,nor yet into words, it being but one • nor into fylla-bU-s, for it is upon the who! but one monofyHable :I nuifl- therefore, and ncctfii! \ oh i es me, divide -into !e te s.. which I find in n.y texi to be fopr only,vz M, A, L, T. M, my beloved, is Mora!; A isAi egorical; L is Litera- ; l >s S hec logical TheM <>r ■ i is well fet to teach vou firunkord-. good man-iters; therefore, M, my M-ffters; A, All of you( 8 )JL, Liften ; T, to my Text. The Allegorical, that!*when one thing is (poke of, and another thing meant.Now the thing fpoken of is Malt; bat the thingmeant is the oil of Malt, or what is vulgarly calledilrong beer; which ye drunkards make, M, Meat;A, Apparel; h Liberty ; V, Treafure The Literal|b according to the Letter, M, Much ; A, Ale; I,Little; T, Thrift. Much ale, little thrift i heTheological is according to the efftfts it produceth ;which I find in my text to be of two kinds: firft inthis world ; fccondly, in the world to come. FirlV,in this world, the eftefts are, in fome, M, Munder;in others* A, Adultery ; in all, L, Loofenefs of Life;and, in many, T, Trealon. Secondly, in the worldto come, the effefts are, in fome, M, Mifery ; in o-thers, A, Anguiih ; in fome, L, Lamentation ; and,in all, T, Torment.Wherefore, my firft ufe (hall be exhortation, I fay,M, my Mafters ; A, All of vou ; L, L'ave oft your,T, Tipling : or, fecond y, by way of denunciation, ffay, M, my Mafters ; A, All of vou ; L, Look for ;T, Torment So much for this time on my text,only by wa^ of convi£lion, take this : all drunkardsare the annoyance of modefty, the trouWe of civili¬ty, the pefts of fociety, the fipoil of wealth, the de-dlruftion of reafon, tt>e brewer’s agents, the ale-houfe’s benefatftorc, their wives’ forrow, their chil¬dren’s fhame. the beggar’s companions the cor.ftablt’strouble, their neighbour’s iaiighing rtock, walkingfwill-tubs, tlie devil’s yallitls, pidures of beafts, andmonfters of men.Say ivcl! and dor 'well, ends bvth with aSay well is goody lat do weil is letter.F I N I §.