KXTRAORDINARYDELIVERANCEOFTO WHICH IS ADDED,ACCOUNT OF THE MARVELLOUS GROWTHOF AWOMAN’S HAIR.lURKINTIELOCrlWILLIAM M4 MI L LAN.PRICE ONE PENNY\1DEI IVEHANCEfc.- • * J'-OFIZABEl'H SHAW....' .j- V\ A’The following account of the extra or-dinary deliverance of Elizabeth Shaw,wife of Joseph Shaw, a Hebrew, resid¬ing at Staincross near Barnsley, inYorkshire, was related bv herself tothe Rev. John Pawson, the truth ofwhich may be depended upon, for ifever there was an upright woman shecertainly was one, as many now livingcan testify.One day in the height of summer shewas washing and had hung part of herlinen out to dry, but a heavy shown*of rain coming on, she ran out hastily10 fetch in tlie clothes. Being in asweat, and without her gown, she gotexceedingly wet, occasioning a severecold, which was followed by a violentrheumatism throughout all her limbs.:3She was confined to her bed for Jllong time in excruciating pain day andnight, and was so helpless as to be ob¬liged to have a cord fixed to the bed’shead by taking hold of which she couldease herself a little. A medical gentle¬man from W akefield attended her forsome time but she got no relief.Growing weary of her long confine¬ment and worn out with the pain sheendured, she said to her husband out?day, “ Joseph I cannot bear to lie hereany longer; do get the couch-chair andset it near ihe fire and get some pillowsand place them upon it, and then tryi! you can get me up and lay me there;perhaps I may get a little ease thatway. Joseph being a kind affectionateIiU'band did as she requested, makingeverything as comfortable as he could,and when he bad done even thing inhis power to relieve her, he went outabout his business, being a farmer.YVhen her husband was gone, a va¬riety of thoughts flowed in upon hermind, and she reasoned with herselfthus; Hero l lie, a poor,helpless,mi¬serable creature; and so 1 am likelyAoremain, for there is no help for me inniiuii all human are ineflcvUmi4But if our blessed Lord was now uponearth 1 would send Joseph to him, andlet him know how bad i am, and howsoon would he come and heal me ? Orhe would speak the word and 1 shouldbe well in an instant! But has he notthe same power and the same tenderpity and love for his poor distressedcreatures, now he is in heaven, that hehad while here upon earth ? Purelyhe has, for he is unchangeably the same,yesterday, to-day, and for ever Jdf henI could believe surely lie would healme, bad as 1 am ? He has said ‘ ac¬cording to thy faith so be it done unto thee-,’ and faith too is his own giftI will therefore p"ay to him that hemay give me power to believe Shethen broke out into earnest prayer andfound uncommon liberty and access tothe throne of grace. At length shethought she could believe that ourLord would heal her, and was enabledto lay hold upon his truth and faithful¬ness," upon his infinite mercy andboundless love. She then endeavouredto rise from her couch antiwas enabledso to do. To her astonishment, shecould stand upright and founathat shewas perfectIv well Upon this shethought,; “ But. 1 will try whether thecure is perfectly wrought or not,,? andimmediately got the brush ami beganto sweep the house. While thus em¬ployed, Joseph returned to enquirehow she was: having half opened thedoor and seeing her sweeping the rooitihe was not a little surprised, and stoptshort. She happened to look up, andperceiving his surprise, said “ Yes, youmay well look. ; here l am, as well asever I was in my life. I have prayedto our blessed Lord and he has healedme and l am perfectly well S” And soshe continued to be. It is easy to sup¬pose that her heart was filled with gra¬titude to her great deliverer, for thiswonderiul display of bis tender pity,power, and love,:To see and acknowledge the hand ofGod in the way. oi his providence isour duty, and will be attended to withunspeakable delight, as we shall fre¬quently behold his wisdom, power andgoodnes-i wonderfully displayed : andas this willdill our sou’s with gratitudeso it will constrain us to give unto himthe honours due to his hoiv name.*ACCOUNT OF THE MIRACULOUSGROWTH o*a WOMANS HAIR*Margaret Horne, an inhabitant ofSt, Peter du Port in the Isle of Guern¬sey (a woman of unblemished charac¬ter, about 70 years of age,) came to meto Les Forres, to be electrified, hopingit would cure her of a settled deafnessbv which she had been lon«- afflicted.! gave her a few gentle slocks throughthe head which were followed by sucha severe headache as deterred her frommaking a second trial- 1 his continuednearly a month when in a very singu¬lar manner she was cured of that, to¬gether with a severe pain in her stomachand bowels, bv which she had beenlong much distressed.One evening having combed outliergray hair, and according to her customtied it on the top of her head, (whichit would barely do, being very short,)she went to bed and the next morningwas astonished to find that her hair hadin the night increased eight or teninches in length. She immediatelycalled Mrs Johnson, with whom shelodges, who on viewing it was equallyIastonished, being perfectly acquaintedwith its former shortness. Her hairwas so much increased beyond its for¬mer bulk that she could not conveni¬ently put on her cap, which inducedher to cut off six or eight inches of themiraculous lo k.The s ime day she was seized with asevere sickness, which constrained herto take to her bed and induced her toto exclaim thus to Mrs Johnson andsome of her ne'ghbours, “ The Lordwioimht a miracle for me in causingmy hair to grow so suddenly; but Ihave cut it off and regarded not theoperation of his hands and now he hasvisited and in judgment afflicted me.O Lord ! if thou wilt once more causeit to grow I will keep it as a token ofthy mercy as long as I live !” The nextmorning she found the pain in herhead entirely gone, toge.her with thatin her stomach and bowels beforementioned. On examining her hair,she found it had once more growne!ght or ten inches! Since that timeher bodily strength had been so amaz¬ingly increased, that she so emnlv as¬sured me, “ found her health andvigour nearly equal to what she pos-sessed in the prime of life ! ‘ Indtfed Ihave bfeen surprised to see her strengthand activity evidenced in walking some-times before me up the hill from LesTorres being before well acquaintedwith the poor state of her health.This miraculous lock (for so I mustterm it) is of a colour different from therest of her hair. The other part is en--tirely white but this is of a very finebrown, only a little mottled with gray.This is ihe real fact, of which theremay be every attestation which the na¬ture of the thing is capable of. Thecircumstances as above, I have takenfrom the conjoint testimony of MrsHorne and Mrs Johnson, who are bothmembers of our society in St. Peter’s,,and who walk in the light, love, andliberty of the Gospel of Christ;THE END.   r-—    — J— 7" 7 -t— r> * . » ,Printed ami Published by Wai. Kirkin¬tilloch. A‘ great variety of Tracts, Histories, &c.,‘ | sowars- d» hand. Hawsers supplied. . '