THE F-VMOUS*>GF THE WHIMSICAL«Hr SPECTATOR.\the famous M*s Bicknell with agreeable letters^'otb witty and very entertaining for a winters'.vening. or a Jammers retreat.EDINBURGH:“-ei by A. Robcrtfon opofite to the Old Affcmbly C!ofe<(Pnce 2d.)* OF scotiandTJ‘££!nbu*2&( 2 )THE flowing lft‘er is of a quite cor1nature ; but l add it here, that rbe r.rn'ay obferve at the fame view, how afniabhnorance may fcc a hen it is thewn in irs fi njties, and how deteftoble in barbarities,written by an honeft countryman to his mand came to ihe hands of a iadv of goodwrapped about a thread- paper, who has longit by her as an image oi artlefs love.To her / very much refped^ Mrs Margaret ClaI OVELY and oh that l could 'vri’e lo'^ Mrs Margaret Cla k l pray you et aft:ion excufe preiumpfion Having been fo haas to enjoy the fight of vom fweet c undentand cdmeiy body fometimes vahen l hacafion to buy treacle or bqaordh poWdei tapothecary’s fhop, 1 am f et amoured with)that 1 can no more he* p cl fe im flamingfi<e to become your irrvant. And jmmore bold now to write to y our fw ei f It,caufe 1 am now my own man, an ; ma*where 1 pleafe ; for mv father is taken a witand now 1 am come to my bving, - Men isyard land, aod a houle; < nci there is ntvyard of land in our field but is will worthpound a ye-.r, as a this^ ;s worth a hd er, :all my brothers and li ters se provoided f"bt tides I have t^ood houfhold uuft thougfay it, both brais and pewter, lumens and wi( 3 )‘ lens; and though my houfe be th^frhe^, yet,‘ it you and 1 match, it ftiall go hara but 1 '*-ill)‘ have one half of u flaced. If you think veil of* this motion, I will *ait upon you as foou as* my new cloths is made, and hay-harveft is in.‘ I couid, tho’ I fay it. have good The reft‘ is torn off; and pofteritv muff be contented to‘ know, that Mrs Margaret Clark is very pretty,* bu are left in the dark a. to the name or hey* lover.I'F'-om the fable of Narcissus.!What could fond youth this helptefs ' :,jlon move?j. What kindled in thee thi unpir*' ' ove"?i Qlhy own warm blufh withi water g'.r^us;With thee the colour d fba-lo conies and goes;; Its em ty being on thyfelf relies ;I Step thou ajide, and the ft ad charmer dies.Aodison.jVlJILT. Honfycomb diverted us hft piohtI y f with an acc vmt ot a youne fellows h,’ft!difco vering his pillion ro his m'ftrefs. t he youi glady was oneitfcems. who had long b /ore con¬ceived a *?.vourable opinion of him. and was ft.11in nopes that he woula fome time or other n^keibis udvantes. As he was one day talking w^rti.her in company of her two fillers, the coiiveifa-tion happening to turn upon love, each o'- tneyoung ladies •.%as, by way of ra ler,. »eco n nen ?Ling a wife to him ; when, to the no iinalliurpni( 4 )r;f>,f h.-r who languifhed for him in fecrct, he toithem Wrh a more than ordinarv (erioulneis, thhis hean had been long engaged to one who:name he thought himfdi obliged in honourconceal; but that he could Ihew her picturethe lia of his fnuff b< x. i he young lad\, wh,found herl'elf moft leniibly touche.! by this cofejlion, -took the hrft .oppermnity that offered clfnatching his box out ot bis hand. He feemeitdefirous of recovering it bt't finding her relolvto look into the lid, beggen her, hat it the fhoulhappen to know the pertcn, the .would not -refveal her name. Upon carrying it to the window nfire was very agreeably fmprized to .find therWas nothing wuhiu the i.d out «. nitre rooKinglafs, in which, after fixe had viewed h r owilface with more pleaiure than fhe had ever d'-unbefore, fixe returnee) the box with a Itmie. tehin^lhim, fhe could not but admire at his choice.WILL fancying that his itory touk, immediireh ffell into adifleftaiion un die utetulneii of lookinggiaflts; and applying himlelf to tne, aJked i^ thertftwere any looking-glafles in the times or ih^.GreeLand Romans; for that he had often obfeived irthe tranfladons of poems out of thoie languages;that people genet ally Uified of ieemg tfcemleivesin wells, fountaiiis, lakes, and rivers ; nay, layshe, I'remember Mr Dryden in hrs Ovid teiis us oa (winging fellow calico Lotyfheine^ thdt made uieof the lea for his looking-guls, and could neverdrds hinafell to advantage but in a Cuiin.( 5 )j.' My friend Wn,L, to fhew us the whole compafsof his learning upon this fubject, further inform-l;J us, that there were ftill teveral nations in tSewbrld fo vexy,barbarous as not to have any looking.I'lafles among them ; and that he had lately read!i voyage to the South fea, in which it is laia, thathe ladies of Ck'U always drefs their heads overi bifon of wafer.j I am the more particular in my account ofWill s Uit night’s lecture on thefe natural mir»iors, it teems to bear tome relation to fhefollowing tetter, which 1 received the day before.#t SH ALL communicate to my reader the follow-l ing letter lor the entertainment of this day.'S 1 R,iV know very well that our nation is moreI j famous for that fort of men who are calledwfo’nu and Humourijis^ than any other count y'in the world; for which reafon it is obfervedIt hat our Evgliffj comedy excels that of all othernations in tire novelty and variety of it1? charact¬ers.j * mono thofe innumerable fets of Whims whichour country rraducej, there are none wo nu I■ihave regarded with more curiofity than thofewho nave invented any particulat kind of diver-i m ror the entertainment ot themfelvs or theirrremds. My je ter Ihdl (Ingle out thofe whoI ake delight in liiui ting a comp my that has loine.■%( 6 )thin;r ofbiirVfmifaiidrediculelr1 its appearanc] fhall make n; Telf unckrilood by the following example. One ol the wits of the large agf..ho was a man of a good eftate, though 1never laid out his money better than ina je\s he was one year at the JS-shb, oblerving th1in the gieat confluence ol fine people, there feveral among them with long chins,part of the vilage by which he himfelf was vemuch riiftinguiihed, he invited to dinner ha icore of thefe remarkable perfons who htheir mouths in the middle of their faces, ui_:ev had no fooner placed tbemlelves abop.the table, but they began to flare upon obanother, not being able to imagine what hibvougrit them together. Our £njr/i/Z> prove ji'ays,’T/s merry in the hall.When oeards wag all.* It provea fo in theafiembly 1 am now fpeaki* of, who feting fo many peaks ef faces agitat* with eating, drinking and difeourfe, and obfe‘ rhg all the chins that were prefect mee ting* gether very often over the centure of the tab»* every one grew ienfible of the jefi, and ca^S* into it with lb much good-huir cur, that tf** lived in An£t U itntifliip and aliance from t6 day-forward.The fame gentleman feme time after pacf « ^together a fet of oglers, as he called them,confifttng of fuch as had an unlucky call in theireyes. His diverfion on this occ hon was to leethe crofs bows rr.iftaken figns, and wro gc; nniv^nces that paff-d amidtt fo many brokenland refracted rays oi liutht.' * I hc. third feafc whicn this merry gentleman:exhibited was to the hammerers, whom he gottogether in a fufficient body to fi l his table.He had ordered one of his iervants, who was: placed behind a fc^en, to wiite down theirtab'e-talk, which '% :s very eafy to be c eiwirhout the help or alhort hand It appears oythe notes which were taken, that tlio' tbeircohverfatien never fell, there were not abovetwenty words fpoken during the firft courfe;Ithat upon ferviug up the fecond, o:te of thecompany was a qua ter of an hour in tellingthem that tl e ducklings and fparrovv-grais werevc y good; and that another tuck up the fame(time in di clariug hindelf of the fame opinion,fthib jdl did not, however, go eff lo well asthe tor cner; for one ot the guefls being a bravenrin, and fuller of refenui.ent than he knewhow to exprefs, went our of the room, .ynd ie itthe tacetious inv.ter achalange in writing, wmchthougli it was afterwards dropped bv the itoor-•hoiiuon of friends put a itup to thefe ludicroustuteitainnients.I' Now , bir, l dare fa\ you will agree with me,chat as there is no mural iu thele jdts, they oughtfto be dxfcoun?ed, and looked upon ratherpieces of uniukinefs than wit. However,is natural for one man to refine upon the thct^of another, and imp* ffible or any fioji'e perfthow great foever his parts may be, to i- vian art, and bring it to its utmoft peHe&io1 P here give you an account ot an hongr , em i of my acqu-Antanre. who, uphe ring he character oi the wit ahe-ve mentiet., h?^hiccfelf affumed it, and endaveureoconvrit it to the benefit oJ '-jrkind. He inved halt a drztn of his fried . one day to dinnwho were each cf them famous for infertifevrral redUndmt prafes in their ddcoorfe,d'f bea: vie d xe fc tb. t is, and fo Sir. Eachthe gu Us .tking frequent ult 01 his partienjrelegance appeared fo red culous to his neig■u, that c- ub. not but r fkct upon him?tppeari- g equally redkuions to the reft ot tcompany: by this means, before they hadion together, every one talking with the greeft Ciicumfpeftion, and carefully avoiding tfavourite cx ktive, the converfation was clt:ed of its redund vnetes. and had a greater quatity of fenfe th ugh lels of found in ir.‘ * hf fame "well-meaning gentleman took ccuft n, at a other time, and bring together fuof his friends as vrere addicted to a foolifh haltual cufiom of fwearing. In -fder to fhew ththe abfurity of the praef ee, he had rccou'fjthe invention above-mentioned, having plaoC 9 )* an Amanuenfts in a private part of the room.'* After the iecond bottle, when men open their‘ minds without referve, my honeft friend began* to take notice of the manv frmorous but uone-‘ cefTiry words that had paffed to his houfe fince‘ their fitting down at table, and how much good« converfation they had loft by giving way to (ach‘ fuperfluous pi ales. What a tax. fays he, would* they have raifed for the poor, had we put the‘ laws in execution upon one another? Every* one of them took this gentle reproof in good‘ part. Upon which he told them, that knowing* their oonverfation would have no fecrets in it,‘ and for the humour-fake would read it to them,‘ if they p eafed. Lnere were ten fheets t)f it,‘ which might have been reduced to two, had4 there not been thofe abominable interpolations* I have before mentioned. Upon the reading‘ of it, in cold blood, it lucked rather like a con-‘ feience of fiends than of men. In (hort, everyj‘ one trended at himfeit upon hearing calmly what* he had pronounced ainidft the hedt and inadver-‘ tancy of difcourfe.i ‘ 1 shalc onl> mention another occafionwhere-‘ in he made ufe of the fame nventioa to cure a4 difl^erant kind of men, who are the pefts of all‘ polite converfation, and murder time as much‘ as either of the two former, though they do it4 more innocently; 1 mean that dull generation|f of [lory-tellers. My friend got together aboutit half a dozen ot his acquaintance, who were■• U i??.-' , 1( / o■v)4 inre£ted with this ftrange malady. The firft d|‘ one of them fitting down, entered into the fie):* of Namur, which lafted till four o cl ck. hdi1 time ot parting. The fecond day a North* took pcfleffion of the difcourfe, which it u*j4 impofibie to get out of his hands fo h,ng as t|‘ company llaid together. The third day was e]‘ grcffed after the fame manner by a ftorv oft I4 lame length. They at laft began to refl’Ct upq4 this b -xbarous way of treating one another, ai|s‘ by this means awakened out of that lerharjf.4 with which each of them had been leized f4 feveral years.* As you have fomewhere declared, that ef* traordinary and uncomnfon characters of mair4 kind are the gam= which you duhght in, ans4 as I look upon you to be the gieateit Iportl’mau4 or, if you pieafe, the Ninuod among this fpecjr4 of writers, 1 thought this dilc.very would m;* be unaceptabie to you./ am yours, &c.Another Letter.* J \M fexton of the parifh of Covent Garden, aicomplained to you feme time ago, thai I wi/4 toiling into prayers at eleven in the nrornir4 crouds of people of quality battened to aflemtf* at a puppev ihow on the other tide of the garde)« I had at the fame time a reiy great dneitee4 for Mr Powell and his liuie th^ugiit ets commc t.I - '( II )wealth, as if they had enticed the gentry int<3thofe wandrings : but let that be as it will, 1a:n now convinced of the honeft intentions ofthe faid Mr Powell and company ; and fend thisto acquaint you, that he is given all the prcfi’Swhich {hall arife to morrow night by his playto the uie of the p ;or charity-children of thispar fli. I have been inform’d, Sir, that in Hol¬land all perfons who fetup any fhow, or adt anyflate-piay, be aftors eh her of wood and wire,or flefh and blood, are obliged to pay out oftheir gain fuch a proportion to the honefl andinduftrious poor in the neighbourhood: by thismeins they make diverfion and pleafure pay atax to labour and induftry. 1 have been toldalio, that all the time of Lent, in Roman catholiccountries, the pcrlons of condition admimftredto the nece{Ikies of the poor, and attended thebeds of lazars and difealed perfons. Out pro-teffant ladies and gentlemen are fo much to leekfor proper ways of p fling time, that they areobliged to Punchinello for knowing what to dowith themltives. Since the cafe k fo, I d fireonly you wtuld intreat cur people of quality,w'ho ate not to be intenupted in tbeir plealure,to think of the pr,:<fticeof any moral duty, that‘ they would at leaft fine of their fins, and givef‘ Something to tbefe poor cl i dren ; a litde out4 of their luxury and fupeifluky, would atone,4 m feme meature, for the wanton ule ol the reftr ^heu f oi tunes, it would not, ace thinks, bf/( 12 ")* amif;, if the ladies, who haunt the cloiflers a‘ p..flages of the play-houfe vve’e upon every (< fence obliged to pay to this excellent inftitutid* of fchcols of aiity : this meihod would ma* ( fRnders themfelves do fervice to the pub!‘ But in the n ean time 1 deiire you would puli‘ lifh this voluntary repe'aticn which Mr Powk* does our panfli, for u e noife he has, made H* it by the conftant rattling of coaches, dru* trumpets, triumphs, and battles. I he deftru‘ tion of Troy adorned with Highland dances, a** to make up the entertainment of all wbo are :i* well difpofed as not to forbear a light entertaiai* ment.^or no other reafon but that it is to dr* a good a^lion.I am yours, &c.c I am credibly informed, that all the infinuaji* tions which a certain writer made againft X‘ Powell at the Bath, are falfe and grouudids.Another Letter.SIR,* \/fi ^ eirip!oymenr, which is that of a broket*‘ IV! leading n.e c ften into tav^rens about th I* Exchange, has given me oeoafion fo obferve e‘ certain enormity, which 1 fhall heiefubmit ttt‘ your aniniacivei fion. In three or four of theft t‘ taverns, f havt, a; differ’nt t mes, taken notions* ofa perciie fetof people with grave countenances III1I ^4 fhort wigs, black cloths, or dark camblet Hti-* med with biack, and itiourning glovts and hat-4 bands who met on cerrain dav* at each tavern‘ facet (lively, aod k"-p a fort O’ moving club,* H ving often nxt with their faces, and obferv-4 ed a ceitain {linking way in thdr dropping in* one after another, 1 had thecuvioGty to inquire4 into their characters, being the rather moved4 to it by theiragreeing in the fingularitv of their‘drefs; and 1 fi d upon due esaniination they4 are a knot of parilh cle ks 'who have taken a4 farcy to one an'ither and perhaps fettle the4 bills of mortality ever their half-pints. I have‘ fo great a value and veneration for any who4 have but even an a fe a ting Amen in iheferv.ee4 of religion, that l am afraid left thefe perfons4 Ihould ncur fotr*e fctndle by this practice ; and4 would therefore h tve them, witht ut rallery,4 ad vile, to fend the 11 renc“ aod the pudets home4 to their ow n houles and not pretend to live as4 well as the overleers of the poor./ am yours, &c.Another Letter.eIS JR4 | W A.5 laft Wednefday night at a taverm in »he4 ^ city, among adft o men who calf themfeivesx \\\e Lawyers club. You muft know, Sir, this‘ dub contifts only ot attorneys ; and at this meet-4 ing every one propofes die caufe he has taeu in( M )band to the board, upon which each membecgives his judgment according to the experienoihe has met with. If it happens that any o ^cputs a cafe of which they have had no precedentsit is noted down by the dark Will Goofequiit(who regifters all their proceedings; that one ok’them may go 'he next day with it to a counterThis indeed is commendable, and t ught to Mthe pT-icipal end of thtir meeting j but hailyou been rhere to ha\e heard them relate thetjsmethods of managing a caufe, their .manner oof drawing out theii bills, ajid, iti fliort, thei-tiarguments upon their feveral wsy of ahulinatheir clients, with t^e aplaufe trat is gtven tihim who has done it molt artfully, > ou woul1'before nt'W have gm n )our remarks on thenI hey are fo conlcious that (heir dilc ui fcs oughto be kept f’eciet, that they are very cautioiof ad mitt mg any petfon who is not of theprofe/lion. When any who aie not of (he laare let iu, thep tf >n wmo entroduces him, fay4he is a veiy honeft g ntlem^n. and he is take:s.in, as their cam is, to pay coils I am admit'1ed upon the r; commendation of one of theprincipals, as a very hon jl good natured felloethat wilt never be in a plot, and omy dejifes tdrink his bottle and fmoke hi- p’pe. You havformerly rtmaiked up^ n feveial .forts of duband as t e tendaney of this is only to increafraud and acceit, l hope you wilt pleale tot£notice of it. / am yours; &c<( M )Another Letter.I"We harharoujly call them blefl.Who are of large/} tenements pojjeft.While J’lvellmg coffers break their owners ref.More truly happy thofe who tanGovern that little empire man ;Who jpend their treafnre freely as twas giv’nBy the laige bounty of indu lgent heav n ;Who in a fix'd, unalterable, fateSmile at the doubtful tide of fate.And [corn alike her frriemffnp and her hate :Who poifon lefs than falfhood feartLoth to purchafe life fo dear.I Have more than once had occafion to men-t ■ n a noble fa1 ir of Seneca the philoiopher,iha a v'rtous perion iuuggiiug v ith misfoitur.es,and jifing abc ve them, is an object on whicn thegods theml’dves nny look down with delight.1 1]jail therefoie let bcf< re my reader a Lene ofth^s kind o: d Rici \u p.ivate life, loi the {pecu¬lation of this da,/.An emb ent ci zen, who had lived in p;oodf< (h • n and credit, was b* a ctain of accidents,and bt an unv. kiable peipitx.ty in his affairs,reduced to a 1 w condition, t here is aniodelty: ufualiy aftanding taul let- poverty, which madeliiin lattuo clstoi’e to reduce his manner of livingto his pelem ci. cun fiances, than folic re Idsfitenas, in order to lupport the fhewot an dlateI( )tlx fnbfhnce was pon?. His wife,was a woman of fenfe and virtue, behavedfelf on this occafion with uncopmon decenand never appeared f > amiable in nis eyes as noInftead of upbraidiniJ him with the ample fortufhe had brought, or the many gr- at offershad refufed of his fake, fhe redoublpd all the ifiances of her aflrftion, while her hufb indconcinually pouring out his heart to hes in coplain's, that be had ruined the beft woman in tworld. He fometimec came home at a time whfhc did not expecl him, and furprtzed her m teartewhich flie en.iavoured to conceal and always ptOP an air ot cheartulnefs to receive him. role?ft n their expence, their eldeil daughter, fwhoI fhail cad Amnnda) wis fent into the country, 1the houfe of an hooell farmer, who had manica fervant of the family. T tis young womanapprehenfive of the ruin which was approachingand had ptivatly engaged a (r end in the neighhourhood to give her an account of what p-dfefrom time to time in tier father’s artairs. Amandkwas in the bloom of her youth and beauty, waethe lord of the manor, who often called in at thfarmer’s houfe as he followed his country Iportsfell paffionately in love with her. He was a maof great generoflty, but from a loofe educatiotjhad contracted a hearty averlion in mirriigeHe therefore entertained a defigu upon Amandivirtue, which at preient he thought lit 10 neejprivate. The innocent creature, who ntve'(17*)ifufpfcted his interrions. was pleafed with Ms'pfrion ; and having obferved his growing pafll mifor her, hoped b\ io advantageous a match, flicifflight quickly be in a capacity ot fupp'irting herraBipovra ifhed relations One clay as he called toifee her. he found her in tears over a letter (helhad juft received from her friend, which gave anlaccoynt th^t Mr father had late!v been ftrippedj-ot every thirfg y an execution. The Mverv who,v nh lome d fficulty. found out the Cdule of herguef, took rldt occ;rfion to make her a propdlal.It is impi.flible to exprefs Amandas confuhou,W'heu fhe found his pretenllons were not honour¬able. She was now deferied of a:l her hopes andhad no power to Ipeak; bin rulhing from him inthe outmoft difturbanee locked herfelf up in herchamber. He immediately difpatched a meffengerto her fathei with the foilowrng iettei.S/£,* | ti iVE heard of your misfo-tune, and have* * offered ycur. if fhe w 11 live with me, to fettle‘ on her four hun ired pounds a year, and to lay* down the fum for which you are nowdiftrefied.‘ 1 will be fo engenuous as to tell you that I do‘ not intend marriage: but if you are wile you4 will u!e your authority with her not be too nice,4 wheu Ihe has an operrunity of laving you and‘ and yout family, and of making hcrlelf happy.7 am yours, &c.V t» /Tuts letter came to the hinHU of Jmanda's mthei ; Ihe opened ar.d read it with gieat :urp.’ :and concern. She did not th ok it proper tf) ep ain hertelf to the mflTei ger. bur drfir'ng idto Cdli again the next moruing, ihe wruie to hdaughter as toilo.»s,Df’areft Child,* X/'OUK. father and I Have juft received a lette‘ -l from a gectleimn who pretends love to y< i* wMth a propofal that insults onr misfortune‘ and would throw us to a lov er degree of mitei u* than any thing which is come up< n us Ho* could this barbarours man think that the ten* dereft of parents would be tempted to fupp‘ their want by giving up the belt of children* infamy and ruin ? it is a mean and cruel artific« to make this propofal at a time when he thinka« our ntceffities muft compel us to any thing‘ but w e will not eat the bread of fhame; an4 therefore we charge thee not to think oi us* but to avoid the (hare which is laid for thy vii tue,* Bewaje of pitying us: it is not lo bad i-.s yo« pet haps been told. All things will yet be weil‘ and 1 Ih.dl wtite my child better news.‘ I have been imerupted. I know' not how Iwas moved to fay things would mend. As 1« was going on l was hurtled by tue u t.e of one« that knocked at the door, and hath broughi us« an unexpected fupply of a debt win ha i ioag* been owing. Oh 1 i wdi now teti cnee all. It( 19 )?Is feme days I have lived almofl without fupport,ihiving conveyed what iktle mony i could nifet> your poor father fhou wit weep to: think where he is, yet be a(T red he will be foot!i at liberty. That ct ue! letter would hive br. f<ehis heart, but I have concealed it trom him. Ii have noConipanion at prefent befideslittle Fanny,j who ftands watching my looks as l write andi is crying for her filter: (he (ays (he is iure you) are not well, having difeovered that my prefenti; trouble is about you. But do not think l would11 thus repeat my foirows. to grieve thee : no, itis to intreat thee not to make them infuppor t»! able, by adding what would be worfe than ^11.‘ Let us bear cheartudy an affliction which we1 have not brought on ourfelves. and remember* there is a power who can better deliver us out4 of it, than by the lofs of thy innocence, Hea-* ven preferve my dear child.Thy affedionate Mother.- The meffenger, notwithftanding he promifedto deliver uiiaica'ci to Amanda, cuinod x. u nhis mafter. who he imagined would be glad tohave an opertunity trf giving it into her handshimfeh. H s mafter was in patient to know thefuccels of his piopofal. and therefore broke openthe letter privately, to fee the con ents. He wasnot a little moved at fo true a pictuie of v rtuekt diftrefs^: but at the fame time was infinitely( 20 )furprii?ec! to find hii5 offers rejecled. Howeverrdolved oot to fupprefs the letter, hir cere/ufealed it up again, and carried it to AinanJa. this endeavours to fee her were in vain, till fw .s affured he brought a letter from her mothHe would not pa t with it but upon condiththat {he fhould read it without leaving the rooiWhile (he w'as peruling it, he fixed his ejes <her face with the deepeft attention : her concegave a new foftnefs to her beamy and when flburft into tears, he could no longer refrain frobearing a part in her forrow, and telling her, t!he too had read the letter, and was refolvednidke reperation tor having been the occafionif. My reader will not be difpieafed to lee 'fervid eputle w’hich he now wrote to Amandamother.M A D A M,* T iM lull ot fhame, ar d will never forgive mi* ■■■ felf, if I have no^ your pardon tor wtiat‘ lately wrote. It was tar from my intention tt‘ add trouble to the , fll cted ; nor could any thing* but my being a fir n^er <0 yt u, h ive hetrayec* me into a fault tor which if I live, 1 Ihallen-‘ deavour to make you amends, as a ion. lot‘ cannot be unhappy while Amanda ss your daugh-‘ ter: nor (hall be, if any thing can pi event it4 which is in the powrr of,M A D A M,Tour mop obedient,humbU fervant%---*■( 2* )This letter he fent hv his ftewirrl, anrf Toontn went ud to town himfclf. 10 ct m 'ie e t e!i r< ^ct e ha'i now reiolved on. By hislendfhip oid ffi \% z? Amanda t father was quick-in a copditioii ot ret!i€\ n;; ijis perplexed affairs.> conclude, he inar: ivd Amanda, and enjoyede double lati-fachono havingreffored a worthymi!v to theo f > mer profperity. and of makingrafelf happy by an alliance to their virtues.23vt mod in f iring; the km Uy fprin<i irifpiresReviving heat, and kindles genial presmrHE author of the Menagiana acquaints us,that difeourfing one oay won feveral lad-esquality abou t e effects of the month of May,Inch intnle a k noly w'armth into the eai cn,id all its inhabit ints; the Marchionefs of o- —,lio was one or the company, c. Id him, That\ni. h Jhe wonl l promt e to he chajl 'in every monthf.des, the could not engage for herfelf in May. se beginning therefore of tins ruorun is now veryear, cieliyn this p per for a caveat to the fair.K, and publifh it before April is q li e out, thatany of them Ihool J be caugnt tr pp’ng they|3y not pretend they had not timely no.ice.I am .nduced to this, bei> g perluaded the(we mentioned obierv.ttion’s as well calculitedi our enmate as lor thaiot trance, and ifm fome( 22 )of our British hdies are of the fame conftitutilWith thf French marchioneis.sh«ll leave it amongphyficians to deterrut|what may be the caufe of fuch an anntverfaryftclination ; whether or no it h that the fpirits atehaving been as it were frozen and congealed^winter, 'ire now turned loofe and fet a ramblii^ior that the g y protpefts oi fields and rueadojiwith the courtlhip of the birds in every biwlnaturally unbend the mind and foften it to p ilure; or that, as fome have imagined a wonjiis prompted by a kind of inftinci to throw hrfrit on a bed of flowers, and not to let thf;beautiful couches which nature has provided exlife efs. However it may be theeff (flsotrhis mo >on the lowei pat t of the fex, who a£t with jj:difguife. are very v fibie. It is at this time tilwe fee the young wenches in a country pamdanemground a May pole, which one ofour leantantiquari ■ fuppotes u> be a rtlic of a certain tgan worfliip that i oo not think fit to mention!t is ; kewile on the firfl day of his mo?Athat we fee the ruidy rndk-maid exer ing hj>felt in a mo<ft fprightly manner under a pyraikof fiivtr tatskatds, and, like the vugin 'Tarpiicpprelfed by the coftly ornaments which her jetncKcfors lay npon her.1 NEtp not mention the ceremony of the griigov n, which is alfo peculiar to this gay fealtiThe f.me periodical !ov' fi fpreads thioticthe whole lex, as >ir Dryden well obferves iott( 2? )<3efcription nf this mprry month.For theey fioeet month* the proves g^ern }iv rits weart. If not the ji- /l the faire/i of the year ;Fo - thee the graie^ Lad t'^e dan in^ hours,i And n uure s ready pencil paints the fiowers.The fpng ftly M i v command ou you-: h to keep] The vigals of her night and bre >ks t tir fle?p ;Each gentle bread with k nd.v warmth fhe moves,I fpires new flames, revives extcnguifb d loves.Accordingly among the works of the greatrnafterb in painting, who have uriVn th;.geniallealoi Uht* yea , weoHen oblerveCw^/h/j mfufedi with Zephyrs flying up and down p>o ;ji<cu uflyin lever J parts the picture, i can i >t bur addlit n my own experience that ab-ur this ti ne:of thf \ eir love le ters come up to mt ia greatlimtibers from ab qiir rs o* the nation.| I R r c e i ve'd uTrp-ftlei pat ticuiar by the 1 ft‘po * froui Toek fhhe >enr|e nan, a ho makes neavy;Coiiipiai .t.-. 01 t n Z linda whom it lee n> he hisvcour ei um cc is u i» ihe'e tnree \ ear-p'ft |ftetells me ttiat ht deligns t tiy her this NLay. a Jit oe d es r oc carry his point, he will ncv_ n ako! ner more.Having thus fairly adnmnifhed the famel fexland laiu before them the danger-tney are exp fedto in tnis cr* real nonth, I mall in the ntx acelay down lomx* u e no djred ,ns f ,i their a. t-i tei avoiding thoie caientuies, which arelo very( M- )freqnmt in t^is feafonIn the fir ft pi ce, i would advife them nevetito vt-nture abroad in the fields, but in the com-#of a parent, a guardian, or fome other tonerdifoeet perfon. I have before (hewn how apt!they are to trip in a floury mead w.As I have often declared, that 1 have nothing!more at hear tnan the honour of my dearc >un-trv-women. I would oeg them to confider, vvhen-rever their relolutions beitin to tail them, that there!are but one a. d thirty davs of this foft feaf >n,and that if they cm but weather out thi^ oueimanth, the reft of the year will be eafy t • them.As h r that pa t of the fair fex who ftay in t wn,I would advife them to be part'culary cau i usjithow they give cheiufelv s up o their molt in io-ctnt entertainments. I they Cmi ot 'orbear ththen.plavhoute, I w ml j rer’ommeod tradgedyher than comeay. and Ihould thnuv :he puppet(bow much later tor hem than the opera> ail the:(how much later tor oem than the operawc de the tun is in Gemini.The reader wiil obieive, that this paper Hvo ten tor the ufe of thofe ladies, who think itw rth while to war againft nature in the ciufe ofhonour. As for that abandoned crew, who donot think virtu, worth c mtend ng for, butgiae uptheir reputation at the fiift fummons, fuch Wat-nings ami pi im rition ate thrown a way upon themA p; oftitute is the lame ea(y creature in all monrhsUof ti e vear nd makt f no difference between Mayypid December, FINIS.