The True Lover’sGarland,CONTAINING,Will’s Courtftiip, andKaiie’s Victory.The f ^auo-hino. Song;.o o obhannoirs FloweryBanks.ANDThe Lafs at the Mill.Falkirk: Printed l>y T. JonNsroK*18x7.WILL’S COURTSHIP,ANDKATIE’* VICTORY.YE lads and lasses, far and near,Come listen to my flitto, O,How muirland Will, at Glasgow Fair,Pick'd up a maid so pretty, O.As Will was walkin’ up the street,He almost tint his senses, O,For ilka lass that he did meetSo kill’d him wi’ their glances, O.At last a fair one she came bjr.Will’s very een enriched. O,He stood and mus’d, and gaz’d aroundJust like a man bewitched, O.At last, Will he recover’d strength,And says, My lovely creature, O,Your beauty rare makes you exceedAll other works of nature, O. .And if that you could fancy me,Or on poor Will talc’ pity, O,My riches a’ I'd freely gi’eTo you, my lovely Katie, O.I ha'e a house, a guid kail yard,And twa milk kye for butter, O,A note or twa in the kist neuk,To buy buith tea and suceur, O.( 3 )Will had na very much to say,Yet it was something funny, O ;But, for to ct a long tale short,He bragg'd weel o’ his money, O.The lassie’s heart was easy won.She lik’d to hear o’ riches, O ;Besides, she thought o’er simple WillShe’d easy wear the breeches, O.So Will and Kate they soon were wed.But mark what follow’d after, O;The honey moon was senreely pass'd,Till they fill’d the town wi’ laughter, O;For Will supp’d brose, and Kate lov'd tea.This caus’d their first disaster, O :Then worse and worse the contest grew.Will curs’d her for a waster, O.Then Kate she rose in furious rage,And at him she let blatter, O,The poker, tongs, and ladle, too,On Will’s poor head play’d rattle, O,She cried, You rogue, are you begunTo starve me here already, O ?Is this the vow you made to me,To keep me like a lady, O ?But by my faith I’ll let you knowI’m made o’ better metal, O,Than to be starv’d by any sot,Whilst I can give him battle, O.C 4 )She broke I Us shins, she tore his hair.She made poor Will to wonder, O ;The pots and pans, and stools and chairs.About his head did thunder, 01Will was na us’d in sic a fray,He ran out-by for slid ter, O,Cry in’, Curse upon the fatal dayThat I to Kate was halter’d, O;For had I ta’en a country maid,Tho’ row’d up in her plaidie, O,A richer man I wou'd ha’e been,Than with the Glasgow lady, O.^ ^ -A- —V. ^ * -A- _j^“THE LAUGHING SONG.Jn flbe days of my childhood- as sportive I play d-Among the young lasses aroundI was fond then of laughing, my grandmother saidNone merrier ever was found?To fill up the moments with joy and delight,1 scarcely knew what I d be at;Whatever was pleasing that came to my sight,I could not help laughing at that.Stilltheioumour prevails tho' maturer I mgrowthI am happy to smile time away ;‘The frolichs oj fancy I still make my awn,And pleasantly spin out the day y( 5 )ItTicn the dull or the splenetic, censure or chide/it tny innocent freedom and prate,l titter to bear their nonsenical pride.For I cannot help laughing at that.Toung Collin declares for abu/band Im fit.So be courts me jrom morning to night;On the charms of my person displays all bis wit.And I omt that it gives me delight ;He talks of tbe parson tbecbutcb and the ring.In praise too of conjugal chat..Fbat wedlock indeed ts an excellent thing.So 1 must not get laughing at that.At length with his whbes if ] should comply.As at present i seem to inclineIf but on his promises I may relyNot to check this good humour of mine,To church with young Collin, I a soon trip rJAnd answe all questions quite pat ;When it comes to the critical word call dOi aI shall scarcely keep laughing at that.-X —SH‘J\rNON‘j ELOWERY BANKS.In summer, when the leaves were green,and blossoms deck d each tree,Toung Sandy then declar dbis love,his artless love.to me.On Shannon's f,or^ery banks w sat^and there be tola bis tale ;Ob-, Mary, softest of tbyjex,0 let fond love prevail!Ah ! tvelha-day ! you see me pinein sorrow and despair.Yet heed me mt—tben let me die,and end my grief and care !Ab no l dear youth, I softly said;such love demands my thanks .*And here 1 vow in lasting truth,on Shannons flow ry banks.And here we vow d cur lasting truth,on Shannon s flow ry banks ;Ana then we gatbcr'-d sweetest flowers,■mdplay d such artless pranks;* woe s me l the press -gang came,win id fore d my love away,Jt when we nam'd next morning fairJio be our wedding day lDear Sandy cry d. They ve forc'-d me hence,but still my heart is thine ;All peace be yours my Mary dear,while war and toil be mine ;With riches 1 ll return to thee,I sobb d out words of thanks ;And then be vow d bis constant loveon Shannon s flow ry bank.;And then be vovi'-d bis constant loveon Shannon's Jlowry banks.And then I saw hinVsail awayand join the hostile ranks.From morn to eve, for twelve dull months,bis absence sad I mourn d :eIbe peace was made, the ship came back,but Sandy ne er return'd.His beauteous face, bis manly form,has won a nobler fair ;My Sandy s false and l■ forlorn,must dte in sad despair !Ye gentle maidens see me laid,while you stand round in ranks.And plant a willow o er my head,on shannon s flowry banks.-H-+ r-* +-+ W--r-r-r-4-+4 M- ■' ^4-THE LASS AT THE. MILL.By the side of a stream at the foot of a bill,I met with young Nancy who lives a: the millsMy heart leapt with joy at so pleasing a sight.For Nancy. I vow. is my only delight.1 told her my love, and sat down by her side'.And swore the next morning 1 d make hermy bride ;In anger s^e said. Get out of my sight.And go to your fenny, you met here last night.( 3 )Surpriz'd, I replied. Pray explain ’whatyou mean,1 never, J vow, with young Jenny was seen jNor can 1 conceive what my Narcj is at.O can tyou! she cry d: well, I love you jor that.Say did you not meet her last night on this spot ?O Jamie! 0 Jamie! you can't have j argot;J beard the whole story this morning from Mat;You {till may deny it. I love you jor that,‘'Tis false, I reply d, clear Nancy believe’.For Mat is a rover and means to deceive:You very well know be has ruin a young Pat,And sure my dear charmer must bate bimfor that.Come, come then, she cry a if you man tohe kind,itl own twas to know the true state of your mind.Transported- 1 kiss d her. she gave me a pat;l made her my wife, and she loves me for tbaUFINIS.  o Faiklrb—7'. Johnston, Prinltr.