FIT FOR THE FINGERLAID OPEN IX A SERMON,PREACHED AT A WEDDING IN ST. EDMOND’S,By WILLIAM SECKER,LATE PREACI1EH OF THE GOSPEL.Genesis ii. 18.And the Loan God said. It is not good that the man should bealone ; I will make him an help meet for himiftStfllLUBR*SCOTLANDPRINTED FGLASGOWFOR THE PoWsBRfe)¥AWEDDING-RING,A nd the Lord God said, it is not good that the manshould be alone : I will make him a help-mcctfor him.Human misery is to divine mercy, as a black soilto a sparkling diamond ; or as a sable cloud to tbesun-beams, Psalm viii. 4.—Lord, ichat is man, thatthou art mindful of him ?Man is, in his creation, angelical; in his cor¬ruption, diabolical; in his renovation, theological;in his translation, majestical.There were four silver channels in which thechrystal streams of God’s affection raft to man inhis creation.1. In his preparation. 2. In his Assimilation.3. In his coronation. 4. In his Association.1. In his preparation. Other creatures receivedthe character of their beings by a simple fiat; butthere was a consultation at his forming ; not forthe difficulty, but for the dignity of the work.FIT FOE THE FINGEE.A Sermon on Genesis ii. 18.4The painter is most studious about that which heintends to mako his master-piece. The four de¬ments were taken out of their elements to make upthe perfection of man’s complexion : the fire waspurified, the earth was refined. When man wasmoulded, heaven and earth was married ; a bodvfrom the one was espoused to a soul from the other.2. In his assimilation. Other creatures weremade like themselves, but man was made likeGod, as the wax hath the impression of the sealupon it. It is admirable to behold so fair a picturein such coarse canvas, and so bright a characterin so brown paper.3. In his coronation. He that made man, andall the rest, made man over all the rest; lie wasa little lord of a great lordship : this king wascrowned in his craddle.-A. In his association. Society is the solace ofhumanity ; the world would be a desert, without acomfort.Most of man’s parts are made in pairs; now hethat was double in his perfection, must not be.single in his condition.And the Lord said, d’.’c. These words are likethe iron gate that opened to Peter of its own accord,dividing themselves into three parts :—1. An Introduction : And the Lord God said.2. An. Assertion; It is not good that man shouldhe alone. A Determination ; 1 will make anhelp-meet for him.In the first there is a majesty proposed. In thesecond there is a malady presented. In the thirdthere is a remedy provided.Once more let me put these grapes into the press.l.-The sovereignness of the expression: Andthe Lord God said. 2. The solitaryncss of theacondition: It it not good, the, 3. The mitablenesaof the provision ; / will make, <bcIn the first there is the worth of veracity. Inthe second, there is the want of society. In thethird, there is the work of divinity. Of these intheir order. And first of the first.1. The sovereignness of the expression : And theLord God said, <bc.Luke i. 70. “As he spoke by the mouths of hisprophets.” In other scriptures he used tlieir mouths,but in this instance he makes use of his own;they were the organs, and he the breath ; they thestreams, and he the fountain. How he spake, it ishard to determine: whether eternally, internal!}',or externally. We are not to inquire into themanner of speaking, hut into the matter that isspoken; which leads me, like a directing star, fromthe suburbs to the city, from the porch to the palace,from the founder of the mine, to the treasure thatis in it: It is not good,In which we have two things:—1. The Subject. 2. The Predicate.The subject, Man alone. The predicate, It isnot good, &c. 1. The subject, Man alone. Takethis in two branches.1. As it is limited to one man.2. As it is lengthened to all men.First, As it is limited to one man: And so it istaken particularly: Man, for the first man. Whenall other creatures had their mates, Adam wantedhis ; though ho was the emperor of the earth, andthe admiral of the seas, yet in Paradise without acompanion; though he was truly happy, yet hewas not fully happy ; though he had enough forhis board, yet he had not enough for his bed;though he had many creatures to serve him, yet6lie wanted a creature to solace him; when he wascompounded in creation, he must be completed byconjunction ; when he had no sin to hurt him, thenhe must have a wife to help him: It is not goodthat man should be alone.Secondly, As it is lengthened to all men: Andso it is taken universally, Heb. xiii. 4. Marriage ishonourable unto all. It is not only warrantable,but honourable. The whole trinity hath conspiredtogether to set a crown of glory upon the head ofmatrimony.1. God the Father. Marriage was a tree plantedwithin the walls of Paradise ; the flower first grewin God’s garden.2. The Son. Marriage is a crystal glass, whereinChrist and the saints do see each other’s faces.3. The Holy Ghost, by his overshadowing of theblessed virgin. Well might the world when it sawher pregnancy, suspect her virginity ; but her mat-remonial condition was a grave to that suspicion :without this, her innocency had not prevented herinfamy; she needed a shield to defend thatchastity abroad which was kept inviolable at home.Too many that have not worth enough to pre¬serve their virginity, have yet will enough to covertheir unchastity ; turning the medicine of frailtyinto the mantle of filthiness. Certainly she is madthat cuts off her leg to get her a crutch ; or thatvenoms her face to wear a mask.Paul makes it one of the characters of those thatshould cherish the faith, 1 Tim. iv. 3. not to forbearmarriage ; which is not only lawful but alsohonourable ; to forbid which, is damnally sinful,and only taught by the influence of devils. One ofthe Popes of Rome sprinkles this unholy and impuredrop upon it, Carnis pollutionem et hnmundiliem.7It is strange that should be a pollution whichWas instituted before corruption ; or that impuritywhich was ordained in the state of innocency; orthat they should make that to be a sin, which theymake to be a sacrament; strange stupidity !—■But a bastard may be laid at the door of chastity,and a leaden crown set upon a golden head. Bel-larmine (that mighty atlas of tho Papal power)I blows his stinking breath upon it: “ Better wereit for a priest to defile himself with many harlots,than to be married to one wife.”—These childrenof the purple whore prefer monasteries before mar¬riages, a concubine before a companion.—They usetoo many women for their lusts, to choose any fortheir love.—Their tables are so largely spread thatthey cannot feed upon one dish. As for their ex¬alting of a virgin-state, it is like him that com¬manded fasting, when he had filled his belly. Whcknows not, that virginity is a pearl of a sparklinglustre ? but the one cannot be set up, without theother be thrown down : No oblation will pacify thoformer, but the demolishing of the latter. Thoughwe find many enemies to the choice of marriage,yet it is rare to find any enemies to the use ofmarriage. They would pick the lock that wantsthe key, and pluck the fruit that do not plant thetree. The Hebrews have a saying, “ that he isnot a man that hath not a wife.” Though theyclimb too high a bough, yet it is to be feared thatsuch flesh is full of imperfection, that is, not tendingto propogation : though man alone may be good,yet, It is not good that man should he alone. Whichleads mo from tho subject to the predicate, It isnot good.Now, it is not good that man should be in asingle condition on a threefold consideration.1. In respect ot sin, which would not else bc|prevented : Marriage is like water, to quench the|sparks of lust’s fire, 1 Cor. vii. 2. Nevertheless, fc|avoid fornication, let every man have his own wifeX&c. Man needed no such physic when he was hiperfect health. Temptations may break natures!best sense, and lay its Paradise waste ; but a singlelife is a prison of unruly desires, which is dailyattempted to be broken open. Some, indeed forcethemselves to a single life, merely to avoid thecharges of a married state ; they choose rather tolive in their own sensuality, than to extinguishthose flames with an allowed remedy : It is betterto marry than to burn :—to be lawfully coupled,than to be lustfully scorched. It is best to feedthese flames with ordinate fuel.2 It is not good in respect of mankind, whichthen would not be propagated. The Roman histo¬rian, relating the ravishing of the Sabine women,excused them thus, ‘Without them mankind wouldfall from the earth, and perish.’ Marriages doturn mutability into the image of eternity: itsprings up new buds when the old are withered.It is a great honour for a man to be the father ofone son, than to be the master of many servants.Without a wife, children cannot bo had lawfully;without a good wife, children cannot be bad comfort¬ably. Man and woman, as the flack and the scion,being grafted in marriage, are trees bearing fruit tothe world. Augustine says, ‘ They are the first linkof human society, to which all the rest are joined.’Mankind had long ago decayed, and been like ataper fallen into the socket, if those breaches whichare made by mortality were not repaired by matri¬mony.3. It is not good in regard of the church, which9could not then have been expatiated. Where thereis no generation, there can be no regeneration.Nature makes us creatures before grace makes usChristians. If the loins of men had been lessfruitful, the death of Christ would have been lesssuccessful. It was a witty question that one put tohim that said, ‘ ‘ Marriage fills the earth, but virgin¬ity fills the heavensHow can the heavens be fullif the earth be empty ? Had Adam lived in inno-cency without matrimony, there would have beenno servants of God in the church militant, nor nosaints with God in the church triumphant. But Iwill not sink this vessel by the over-burthen of it,nor press this truth to death by laying too greata load upon its shoulders. There is one knot whichI must untie, before I make a farther progress, viz.1 Cor. vii. 1. It is good for a man not to toucha woman. Do all the scriptures proceed out of thesame month ; and do they not all speak the sametruth ? The God of unity will not indite discord ;and the God of verity cannot assert falsehood. Ifgood and evil be contraries, how contrary then areI these two scriptures ? Either Moses mistakes God,j or Paul mistakes Moses, about the point of mar-; riage. To which I shall give a double answer.1. There is a public and a private good. Inrespect of one man, it may be good not to touch awoman ; but in respect of all men, It is not good\ that man should be alone.2. Moses speaks of the state of man created ;j Paul of the state of man corrupted: Now, thati which by institution was a mercy, by corruption| may become a misery ; as pure water is tainted bya running through a miry channel, or as the sun-u beams receive a tincture by shining through a•i coloured glass. There is no print of evil in the10world, but sin was the stamp that made it. Tliejthat seek nothing but weal in its commission, willfind nothing but woe in the conclusion. Whichleads me from the solitariness of tho condition,Man alone, to the suitableness of the provision, 1will make an help-meet for him.In which we have two parts, 1. The Agent, Iwill make. 2. The Object, An help.1. Tho Agent, I will make. We cannot builda house without tools, but the Trinity is at liberty.To God’s omniscience there is nothing impossible.We work by hands, without; but he works with¬out hands. He that made man meet for help,makes a meet-help for man. Marriages are con¬sented above, but consumated below, Prov. xviii. 22.Though man wants supply, yet man cannot supplyhis wants, James i. 17. Every good and perfectgift comes from above, <bc. A wife, though sliebe not a perfect gift, yet she is a good gift. Thesebeams are darted from the Son of Righteousness.Hast thou a soft heart ? It is of God’s breaking.Hast thou a sweet wife? She is of God’s making.Let me draw up this with double application.1. When thou layest out for such a good onearth, look up to the God of heaven ; let him makethy choice for thee, who made his choice of thee.Look above you, before you, about you ; nothingmakes up the happiness of a married condition,like the holiness of a mortified disposition : accountnot those tho most worthy, that arc the mostwealthy. Art thou matched to tho Lord ? Matchin tho Lord. How happy are such marriageswhere Christ is at the wedding! Let none butthose who have found favour in God’s eyes, findfavour in yours.2. Give God the tribute of your gratulation for11your good companions. Take head of paying you\rent to a wrong landlord: when you taste of th#stream, reflect upon the spring that feeds it. Nonthou hast four eyes for thy speculation, four handsfor thy operation, four feet for thy abulation, andfour shoulders for thy sustentation. What the sinagainst the Holy Ghost is, in point of divinity,that is unthankfulness, in point of morality, anoffenco unpardonable. Pity it is, but that moonshould bo ever in an eclipse, that will not acknow¬ledge her beams to be borrowed from the sun. Hothat praises not the giver, prizes not the gift. Andso I pass from the Agent to the Object, A help.She must be so much, and no less ; and so much,and no more. Our ribs were not ordained to beour rulers. They are not made of the head, toclaim superiority ; but out of the side, to be con¬tent with equality. They desert the Author ofnature, who invert the order of nature. Thewoman was made for the man’s comfort, but theman was not made for the woman’s command.Those Shoulders aspire too high, that content notthemselves with a room below their heads. It isbetween a man and his wife in the house, as it isbetween the sun and the moon in the heavens,when the greater light goes down the lesser lightgets up ; when the one ends in setting, the otherbegins in shining. The wife may be a sovereign inher husband’s absence, but she must be subjectin her husband’s presence. As Pharaoh said toJoseph, so should the husband say to his wife," thou shalt bo over my house, and accordingto thy word shall all my people be ruled, only onthe throne will I be greater than thou,” Gen. xli.40. The body of that household can never makeany good motion, whose bones are. out of place12The woman must be a help to the man in thesefour things :—-1. To his piety. 2. To his society.3. To his progeny. 4. To his prosperity. To hispiety, by the ferventness of her excitation. To hissociety, by the fragrantness of her conversation.To his progeny, by the fruitfulness of her education.To his prosperity, by her faithful preservation.1. To his piety, by the ferventness of her ex¬citation, 1 Pet. ii. 7. Husband and wife should boas the two milch-kine, which were coupled togetherto carry the ark of God ; or as the two cherubims,that looked one upon another, and both upon themercy-seat ; or as the two tables of stone, on eachof which were engraven the laws of God. In somefamilies married persons are like Jeremiah’s twobasket of figs, the one very good, the other veryevil ; or like fire and water, whilst the one isflaming in devotion, the other is freezing in cor¬ruption. There is a two-fold hinderance of holiness:1. On the right side. 2. On the left. On theright side ; when the wife would run in God’s way,the husband will not let her go ; when the fore¬horse in a team will not draw, he wrongs all therest; when the general of an army forbids a march,all the soldiers stand still. Sometimes on the left:How did Solomon’s idolatrous wife draw away hisheart from heaven ? A sinning wife was Satan’sfirst ladder, by which he scaled the wall of Para¬dise, and took away the fort-royal of Adam’s heartfrom him. Thus she, that should have been thehelp of his flesh, was the hurt of his faith ; hisnature’s under-proper, became his grace’s under¬miner ; and she that should bo a crown on thehead, is a cross on the shoulders. The wife is oftento the husband as the ivy is to the oak, which drawsaway his sap from him.132. A help to his society, by the fragrautness ofher conversation. Man is an affectionate creature ;now the woman’s behaviour should be such towardsthe man, as to requite his affection by increasinghis delectation ; that the new-born love may notbe ruined before it be rooted. A spouse shouldcarry herself so to her husband, as not to disturbhis love by her contention, nor to destroy his loveby her alineatiou. Husband and wife should bolike two candles burning together, which makesthe house more lightsome ; or like two fragrantflowers bound up in one nosegay, that augments itssweetness; or like two well-tuned instruments,which sounding together, make the more melodiousmusic. Husband and wife, what are they but astwo springs meeting, and so joining their streams,that they make but one current? It is an un¬pleasing spectacle to view any contention in thatconjunction.3. To his progeny, by the fruitfulness of hereducation ; that so her children in the flesh maybe God’s children in the spirit, 1 Sam. i. 11.Hannah she vows, if the Lord will give her a son,she would give him to the Lord, to serve him. Aspouse should be more careful of her children’sbreeding, than she should be fearful of her chil¬dren’s bearing. Take heed, lest these flowers growin the devil’s garden.—Though you bring them outin corruption, yet do not bring them up to dam.nation!—Those are not mothers but monsters, thatwhilst they should be teaching their children thev*ay to heaven with their lips, are leading themthe way to hell with their lives. Good educationis the best livery you can give them living ; and itis the best legacy you can leave them dying. Youlet out your cares to fiiake them great, 0 lift up14your prayers to make them good, that before yoidie from them, you may see Christ live in them.Whilst these twigs are green and tender, theyshould be bowed towards God. Children andservants are in a family, as passengers in a boat;husband and wife, they are as a pair of oars, torow them to their desired haven. Let these smallpieces of timber be hewed and squared for thecelestial building. By putting a sceptre of graceinto their hands, you will set a crown of glory upontheir heads.4. A help to his prosperity, by her faithful preser¬vation, being not a wanderer abroad, but a workerat home. One of the ancients speaks excellently :She must not be a field-wife, like Dinah ; nor astreet wife, like Thamar ; nor a window-wife, likeJezabel. Phildeas, when he drew a woman, paintedher under a snail-shell ; that she might imitatethat little creature, that goes no further than it cancarry its house upon its head. How many womenarc there, that are not labouring bees, but idledrones ; that take up a room in the hive, but bringno honey to it; that are moths to their husbands’estates, spending when they should be sparing.As the man’s part is, to provide industriously, sothe woman’s is, to preserve discreetly ; the onemust not bo carelessly wanting, the other must notbo causelessly wanting ; the man must be seekingwith diligence, the woman must be saving withprudence. The cock and hen both scrape togetherin the dust-heap, to pick up something for thelittle chickens. To wind up this on a short bottom,1. If the woman be a help to the man, then letnot the man cast dirt on the woman.Secundus being asked 1% opinion of a woman,said, Viri naufragium, damns tempestas, quietus16impedimentum, &c. But surely he was a monsterand not a man ; titter for a tomb to bury him,than a womb to bear him. Some have styled themto be like clouds in the sky ; like motes in thesun ; like snuffs in the candle ; like weeds in thegarden. But it is not good to play the butcherwith that naked sex, that hath no arms but forembraces. A preacher should not be silent forthose who are silent from preaching : because theyare the weaker vessels, shall they be broken all topieces ? Thou that sayest women are evil, it maybo thy expression flows from thy experience ; butI shall never take that mariner for my pilot, thathath no better knowledge than the splitting of hisown ship. Wilt thou condemn the frame of all,for the fault of one ? As if it were true logic, be¬cause some are evil therefore none are good. Hehath ill eyes that disdains all objects. To blastthy helper is to blame thy Maker. In a word, wotook our rise from their bowels, and may take ourrest in their bosoms.2. Is the woman to Vo a help to the man ? Thenlet the man be a help to the woman. What makessome debtors to be such ill pay-masters, but becausethey look at what is owing to them, but not atwhat is owing by them. If thou wouldst havethy wife’s reverence, let her have thy respect.To force a tear from this relation, is that whichneither benefits the husband’s authority to en¬join, nor the wife’s duty to perform. A wife mustnot bo sharply driven, but sweetly drawn. Com-passion may bend her, but compulsion will breaklier. Husband and wife should act towards eachother with consent, not by constraint. There are fourthings wherein the husband is a meet-help tothe wife.161. Iu his protection of her from injuries. It iswell observed by one, that the rib of which womanwas made, was taken from under his arm : As theuse of the arm is to keep off blows from the body,so the office of the husband is. to ward off blowsfrom the wife. The wife is the husband’s treasury,and the husband the wife’s armoury. In darknesshe should be her sun, for direction ; in danger heshould be her shield for protection.2. In his providing for her necessities. Thehusband must communicate maintenance to thewife, as the head conveys influence to the members;thou must not be a drone, and she a drudge. Aman in a married estate, is like a chamberlain inan inn, there is knocking for him in every room.Many persons in that condition, waste that estatein luxury, which should supply their wife’s necessity;They have neither the faith of a Christian, nor tholove of a husband! It is a sad spectacle to see avirgin sold with her own money unto slavery, whenservices are better than marriages ; the one re¬ceives wages, whilst the other buy their fetters.3. lu his covering of her infirmities. \\ howould trample upon a jewel, because it is fallenin the dirt, or throw away a heap of wheat for alittle chaff, or despise a golden wedge, because itretains some dross ? These roses have some prickles.Now husbands should spread a mantle of charityover their wives’ infirmities. They be ill birds thatdefile their owm nests. It is a great deal betteryou should fast than feast yourselves upon theirfailings. Some husbands are never well longerthan they are holding their fingers in their wife ssores. Such are like crows, that fasten only uponcarrion. Do not put out the candle because of thesnuff. Husbands and wives should provoke one-17another to love ; and they should love one-anothernotwithstanding of provocation. Take heed ofpoisoning those springs from whence the streamsof your pleasure flow.4. By his delighting in her society : a wife takessanctuary not only in her husband’s house, but inhis heart. The tree of love should grow up in thefamily, as the tree of life grew up in the garden ofEden. They that choose their love, should lovetheir choice. They that marry where they affectnot, will affect where they marry not. Two joinedtogether without love, are but tied together tomake one another miserable. And so I pass tothe last stage of the text, A help-meet.‘A help,’ there is her fallness ; 1A meet-help,'there is her fitness. The angels were too muchabove him ; the inferior creatures too much belowhim ; he could not step up to the former, nor couldhe stoop down to the latter; the one was out ofhis reach, the other was out of his race ; but thewoman is a parallel lino drawn equal with him.Meet she must be in three things.1. In the harmony of her disposition. Husbandand wife should be like the image in a looking,glass, that answers in all properties to the face thatstands before it; or like an echo, that returneththe voice it receiveth. Many marriages are likeputting new wine into old bottles. An old man isnot a meet-help for a young woman : He that setsa grey head upon green shoulders, hath one foot inthe grave and another in the cradle : Yet, howmany times do you see the spring of youth weddedto the winter of old age ?—A young man is not ameet-help for an old woman ; raw flesh is but anill plaister for rotten bones. He that in his non-agemarries another in her dotage, his lust hath one wife18in possession, but bis love another in reversion.2. In heraldry of her condition. Some of ourEuropean nations are so strict in their junctions,that it is against their laws for the commonality tocouple with the gentry. It was well said by one,“ If the wife be too much above her husband, sheeither ruins him by her vast expenses, or reviles himwith her base reproaches; if she be too much belowher husband, either her former condition makesher too generous, or her present mutation makesher too imperious.”—Marriages are styled matches,yet amongst those many that are married, how feware there that are matched ! Husbands and wivesare like locks and keys, that rather break thanopen, except the wards be answerable.3. In the holiness of her religion. If adulterymay seperate a marriage contracted, idolatry mayhinder a marriage not perfected. Cattle of diverskinds were not to ingender. 2 Cor. vi. 14. Be notunequally yoked, <i'c. It is dangerous taking herfor a wife, who will not take God for a husband.It is not meet that one flesh should be of two spirits.Is there never a tree thou likest in the garden butthat which bears forbidden fruit ? There are buttwo channels in which the remaining streams shallrun :—1. To those men that want wives, how tochoose them. 2. To those women who havehusbands, how to use them.Marriage is the tying of such a knot, thatnothing but death can unloose. Common reasonsuggests so much, that ■wo should be long a-doingthat which can but once be done. Where onedesign hath been graveled in tbe sands of de¬lay, thousands have been split on the rock ofprecipitance. Rash adventures yield gain. Oppor-tunitie* arc not like tides, that when ono is past,19i another returns ; but yet take heed of flyingi without your wings ; you may breed such agues inyour bones, that may shake you to your graves.1. Let me preserve you from a bad choice. 2.Present you with a good one. To preserve youfrom a bad choice, take that in three things : 1.Choose not for beauty. 2. Choose not for dowry.3. Choose not for dignity. He that loves to beauty,buys a picture ; he that loves for dowry, makes apurchase ; he that leaps for dignity, matches witha multitude at once. The first of these is too blindto bp directed ; the second too base to bo accepted ;the third too bold to be respected. 1. Choose notIby your eyes. 2. Choose not by your hands. 3.Choose not by your ears.1. Choose not by your eyes, looking at the beauty| of the person. Not but this is lovely in a woman ;but that this is not all for which a woman shouldbe beloved. He that had the choice of many facesstamps this character upon them all, favour isdeceitful and beauty is vain. The sun is morebright in a clear sky, than when the horizon isclouded ; but if a woman’s flesh hath more ofbeauty than her spirit hath of Christianity, it islike poison in sweet-meats, most dangerous : “ Thesons of God saw the daughters of men, that theywere fair,” Gen. vi. 2. One would have thoughtrfiat they should rather have looked for grace iuthe heart, than for beauty in the face : take careof running at the fairest signs ; the swan hathblack flesh under her white feathers.2. Choose not by your hands, for the bounty ofthe portion. When Cato’s daughter was askedwhy she did not marry ? she thus replied, she couldnot find the man that loved her person above herportion. Men love curious pictures, but theywould hare them set in golden frames. Someso degenerate as to think anj good enough, whhave but goods enough. Take heed, for sometimesthe hag and baggage go together. The personshould be a figure, and the portion a cypher, whichadded to her, advances the sum, but alone signifiesnothing. When Themistocles was to marry hisdaughter, two suitors courted her together, the onerich and a fool, the other wise but poor ; and beingasked which of the two he had rather his daughtershould have ? he answered Mallem virum finenecuni : ‘ I had rather she should have a manwithout money, than money without a man.’2. Choose not by your ears, for the dignity ofher parentage. A good old stock may nourish afruitless branch. There are many children whoare not the blessings, but the blemishes of theirparents ; they are nobly descended, but ignoblyminded : Such was Aurelius Antonious, of whomit was said, that he injured his country of nothing,but being the father of such a child. There aremany low in their descents, that are high in theirdeserts ; such as the cobler’s son, who became afamous captain ; when a great person upbraidedthe meanness of his original, “ My nobility, saidhe, began with me, but thy nobility ends withthee.” Piety is a greater honour than parentage.She is the best gentlewoman that is heir of herown deserts, and not the degenerate offspring ofanother’s virtue. To present you with a goodchoice in three things.1. Choose such a one as will be a subject toyour dominion. Take heed of yoking yourselveswith untamed heifers.2. Choose such a one as may sympathize withyou in your affliction. Marriage is just like a seavoyage, he that enters into this ship, must look tomeet with storms and tempests, 1 Cor. vii. 20.They that marry shall have trouble in the flesh*Fleth and trouble are manned together, whether■we marry or no ; now a bitter cup is too much tobe drunk by one mouth. A heavy burthen is easilycarried by assistance of other shoulders. Husbandand wife should neither be proud flesh, nor deadflesh. You are fellow-members, therefore you shouldhave a fellow-feeling. While one stands safe onthe shore, pity should be shown to Inm that is toaston the sea. Sympathy in suffering is like a dryhouse in a wet day.13. Choose such a one as may be serviceable toyour salvation. A man may think he hath a saint,when he hath a devil; but take heed of a hSrlot,;j that is false to thy bed ; and of a hypocrite, that isfalse to thy God.2. To those women who have husbands, how touse them. In two things.1. Carry yourselves towards them with obedience.I Let their power command you, that their praise1 may commend you. Though you may have yourhusband’s heart, yet you should love his willTill the husband leaves commanding, the wifemust never leave obeying. As his injunctionsmust be lawful, so her subjection must bo loyal.2. With faithfulness. In creation, God madeI not woman for many men, or many women for oneman. Every wife should be to her husband asEve was to Adam, a whole world of women ; and■ every husband should be to his wife as Adam wasto Eve, a whole world of men. When a river is di¬vided into many channels, the main current starves.To conclude, Good servants are a great blessing ;good children a greater blessing ; but a good wife22is the greatest blessing : And suoh a help let himseek for her that wants one, let him sigh for herthat hath lost one, let him take pleasure in herthat enjoys one.Where there is nothing but a picture of virtue,or a few shadowy qualities that may subsist withoutany real excellency, death will hide them for eveiin the night of despair. The blackness of darknesswill close upon the naked and wandering ghost;whilst its loathsome remains are consigned tooblivion and putrefaction in the prison of the grave,with the prospect of a worse doom hereafter. Butwhere there is a living image of true goodnessbegun in this state, death will deliver it with safetyinto the finishing hand of eternity, to be producedwith every mark of honour in the open view ofheaven ; where its now mortal partner, rescuedfrom tho dishonours of the dust, and brightenedinto the graces of eternal youth, shall rejoin it intriumph, to suffer the pangs of separation no more.Everlasting Jehovah ! what a crown of joy willit confer on the preacher in that day, if this littleservice shall bo rewarded with tho reflection ofhaving contributed to tho salvation or improve¬ment of any of these young persons whom he nowaddresses ! If ever thine ear was open to my cry,hear me, 0 Lord! hear me in their behalf. Whatcannot thy spirit perform, perform by tho weakesthand ? May that spirit seal them to tho day ofredemption. At that glorious period, may I meetyou all amongst the redeemed of the Lord, happyto see you shining with immortal splendour in thogeneral assembly and church of the first born,transported to think that I shall live with you forever, and joining in the gratulations of your fellow-angels around the throne of God, when He shall,23in tho sight of all, clothe you with the garment ofsalvation, and cover you with the robe of righteous¬ness, as a bridegroom is decked with ornaments,and as a bride is adorned with her Jewels. AmenLADY FRETFUL,A SKETCH FROM REAL tIFE.Her general stylo of conversation runs on theinconveniences to be expected from this or thatI circumstance, and no one is so ingenious in ex¬tracting unsuspected evil from plans of .the fairestpromise. Is the weather fine, and a walk men¬tioned—It is hot—it is dusty—the wind is in thoeast—there was rain in the morning—it will bedirty—or it will rain before we reach home. Isshe to go out in the carriage ; one road is too longfor the horses—another is unpleasant—anotherunsafe—and, in short, none are exactly right.Yet she goes on these proposed expeditions,after all possibility of pleasure has been reasonedand anticipated away. If she is going out to dinner,she is sure the company will bo unpleasant—theservants will get drunk—she shall be robbed, oroverturned in coming home. If she is to have aparty at home, she knows every thing will gowrong—nobody will be amusing—the time willhang heavy—the people will go away, execratingthe stupidity of the visit. If she sees any ladyemployed about a piece of work, she prognosticates24it will be unfashionable before it is finished. Ishe sees any one reading, she never new any goodcome of reading, but to make young people unfitfor conversation. If her husband is going a hunt¬ing she hates hunting, it is so dangerous. If hegoes for a ride, she is surprised he can take'plcasurein sitting en his horse for hours together. If he isin his library, she never saw such a book-worm.If he sits in the parlour, she hates men always attheir wive's apron strings. Thus does she sourevery common occurance of life by the most ingenious optical delusion, looking at every thing inthe worst point of view.What absurdity to imbitter one’s alloted portionof happiness by so obstinately persisting to an¬ticipate inconvenience ! Why not be disposed tothink fair appearances promise fair conclusions ?Why, if the sun shines in the morning, be unwillingto enjoy it then ? And, if it rains, -why not bealways inclined to hope the weather will brighten ?