r" t * 'The SCRAP BOOK is not restricted to the Blonths of one year, butias a reference to the Months generally ; avd besides noticing incidents;r customs peculiar to the .Months, it comprises instructive and entertain-ng Pieces, well smted to excite in youth a relish for useful reading.THEMonthly Scrap Kook,FOR OCTOBER.But see the lading many-colour’d woodsShade deepening over shade, the country nundImbrown ; a c,ceded umbrage, dusk, and dun,Of every hue, from wan declining greenTo sooty dark.CONTENTS.A Grocer’s Bill,   2The Camel; a Story of the Desert,   3The Month of October,    7Passages in a Provost’s Life; —the Press-gang, t)Reformed Presbyterian Church; or Cameronians,L>Synod of Relief,’  Methodists,     Variety of Short Scraps,  Garden Work in October,  161922DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER,Price One Penny.A GROCERS’ BILL.The following goods I ha’e to sell,Taith halesale anti retail:An’ gif ye'll come down whar I dwellYe’ll get baith will and wail.The teas are fresh, the spirits good.As e’er ran through a filler ;But syne, it’s to be understood,I deal for ready siller.Finest flavour’d auld French brandy.Sugar loaves, baith great and sma’Cinnamon and sugar candy,Sa’t an’ starch, like driven sna\Sparklin’ port, and sbiniri sherry.Glad’nin’, genuine, gen’rous wine,Fit to dicer and mak’ ye merry.When a bottle ye incline.China oranges an’ raisins,Curran’s, almon’s, figs, an’ prunes.Foreign fruits in a’ their seasons,Tumblers and neat toddy spoons.Common, stale, and stamic carvie,Qrange peel an’ lemon skin.Caller eggs, frae Willie Garvie,Some twa youks, an’ some but anevPack thread, penny cord an’ lashes,Durham mustard, superfine,Soap, wi’ pot an’ pearl ashes.Vinegar, the best champaigne.Great variety o’ brushes.Fit for bakers, claise or hats,Chrystal salts, an’ sugar dishes,Cruets, fountains, mustard pats.Acquavitae, auld an’ bellin’.That will rouse ye’r drousie heart,Mak’ ye crouse, ilk care dispellin’.To bell the cat wi’ Bonaparte.A’ kin kinds o’ foreign spirits,Fit for toddy, punch or dram,If ye want what’s guid, then here its.Pork, beef, or mutton ham.Orders sent in frae the country,I’ll attend wi’ muckle care.Either frae poor folk or gentry,Sae just now, I’ll say nae tnair.THEMONTHLY SCRAP BOOK.THE CAMEL ;A STORY OF THE DESERT.he extraordinary scent of the camel enables himdiscover water at a great distance ; and thus,the wildest regions of the desert, the caravan isten preserved from destruction by this instinct,i the neighbourhood of wells, such as are foundthe Hadj routes, the camels, after passing rockystricts, that fatigue them more than several days’arch upon the plains, surfeit themselves withater. This renders them still weaker, and theyten perish. Camels’ carcases are as frequentlyand in the accustomed roads as in the deserts ;d when the pilgrimage leaves Mecca, the very’ is corrupt with the bodies of camels that haveed of exhaustion after performing the journey,n the road, when a camel falls, he is usuallylied according to the Mahometan fashion, whichto turn his head towards Mecca, and cut hisroat. On such occasions the Arabs wait invage impatience tbe signal of the owner, readyplunge their knives into the poor animal, andir off'a portion of the flesh. At seasons of greativation, the water which is found in the cells ofe camel’s stomach is eagerly swallowed bye Arabs.4 THE MONTHLY' The fourth, fifth, and sixth days’ marches othe Cairo Hadj, through the deserts of Tyh, anexceedingly exhausting and dangerous. Th;weary pilgrims halt for a day and a night at thcastle of Nakhel, in the middle of the desert!where they replenish their water-skins ; hut the imarch again in the evening of the seventh davn-and, finding no water in their route, halt not tit]the morning of the tenth, when they have reacheilthe plain and castle of Akaba. This district prtrtsents fearful monuments of the sufferings of th<caravan. “ Past the Akaba,” says Burckhardt“ near the head of the Red Sea, the bones of deaicamels are the only guides of the pilgrim throughthe wastes of sand.” It is, perhaps, rarely thatthe pilgrims perish with thirst on the road, unlestsome of them wander from the main body ; or thcaravan, losing its way, overshoots the day’s sta;tion. Where there are no landmarks but thosnwhich are formed by the traces of former devastfi;tion—by “the bones of dead camels”—such tcircumstance is not difficult to happen even to thljmost experienced guides. The water-skins aremin such cases, emptied, and horses and men perisin a state of miserable despair, while the weariecamels drop with exhaustation. Probably thes >afflictions happen more frequently to private cars ;vans than to those of the pilgrimage. Burckhard irelates an interestiug story of such an event in th'Nubian desert, which beautifully illustrates th<(surprising instinct of the camel. It was told Lhim by a man who had himself suffered all th<pangs of death :SCRAP BOOK. O“In the month of August, a small caravan[.s pared to set out from Berber to Daraou. I heyinsisted of five merchants and about thirty slaves,;,,h a proportionate number of camels. AfraidMthe roboer Naym, who at that time was in the", fit of waylaying travellers about the well othdjeym, and who had constant intelligence of thex larture of every caravan from Berber, they de-irmined to take a more eastern road, by the wellillvareyk. They had hired an Ababde guide,imo conducted them in safety to that place, butnio lost his way from thence northward, the routeung very unfrequented. After five days marchtil the mountains their stock of water was exhaus-rl, nor did they know where they were. .Theyksolved, therefore, to direct their course towardi je setting sun, hoping thus to reach the Nile,isjfter two days’ thirsfe, fifteen slaves and one of the■jierchauts died ; another of them, an Ababde, whoId ten camels with him, thinking that the camelsi fight know better than their masters where waterjas to be found, desired his comrades to tie himli st upon the saddle of his strongest camel, thatn g might riot fall down from weakness ; and thus(je parted from them, permitting his camels to takeiineir own way t but neither the man nor hisrtamel were ever heard of afterwards. On theIsighth day after leaving Owarejk, the survivorsname in sight of the mountains of Shigre, wh ch"shey immediately recognized ; but their strengthlavas quite exhausted, and neither men i or beastslavere able to move any farther. Lying down un-xer a rock they sent two of then servants, with the° THE MONTHLYtwo strongest remaining camels, in search of warter. Before these two men coul<l reach the moun.tain, one of them dropped off his camel deprivesof speech, and able only to move his hands to hi'comrade as a signal tliat he desired to be left tohis fate, j he survivor then continued his route fbut such was the effect of thirst upon him that hu.eyes grew dim, and he lost the road, though he hatoften travelled over it before, and had been perfect¬ly acquainted with it. Having wandered about for)a long time, he alighted under the shade of a tree.rand tied the camel to one of its branches ; rhobeast, however, smelt the water (as the Arabs ex-spress it), and, wearied as it was, broke its halter,;anti set off galloping furiously in the direction oi.the spring, which, as it afterwards appeared, wasiat half an hour’s distance. The man, well un¬derstanding the camel’s action, endeavoured to fol-ilow its footsteps, but could only move a few yards phe fell exhausted on the ground, and was about tc!bieathe his last, when Providence led that way,!from a neighbouring encampment, a Bisharyt,Bedouin, who, by throwing water upon the man’sface, restored him to his senses They then 'wenthastily together to the water, filled the skins, andijleturning to the caravan, had the good fortune to :find the sufferers still alive. The Bisharye received a Islave for his trouble. My informer, a native of Yem-bo, in Arabia, was the man whose camel discoveredthe spring ; and he added the remarkable circum¬stance, that the youngest slaves bore the thirst betterthan the rest, and that, while the grown up boys alldied, the children reached Tgypt in safety.”SCRAP BOOK.7THE MONTH OF OCTOBER.he month of October on account of its steadyt'[nperature, is chosen for the brewing of such.’alt liquor as is designed for keeping. The far-> -ar continues to sow his corn, and the gardener4 ants, forest and fruit trees. Many of our read-f s, though fond of gardens, will learn perhaps forile first time that trees are cheaper things than;mvers ; and that at the expense of not manyti illings, they may plant a little shrubbery, or. ral skreeu for their parlour or study windows, ofb oodbine, guelder-roses, bays, arbutus, ivy, virgin’s9 fwer, or even the poplar, horse-chestnut, birch,n camore, and plane-tree, of which the Greeks;>ere so fond. A few roses also, planted in therlrth, to flower about his walls or windows inonthly succession, are nothing in point of dear--jss to roses or other flowers purchased in potsa ome of the latter are nevertheless cheap and long-•ved, and may be returned to the nursery-man atR small expense, to keep till they flower again,ut if the lover of nature has to choose betweenowers or flowering shrubs and trees, the latter,i our opinion, are much preferable, inasmuch ashile they include the former, they can give alore retired and verdant feeling to a place, andto mind, even in their very nestling and close-taiess, something of the whispering and quiet am¬plitude of nature.“ Fruits continue in abundance during thismonth, as every body knows from the shop-keeper;ttaor. for grosser senses are well informed, if our8 THE MONTHLYothers are not. We h:ure yet to d. cov.r that itna-jiginative jdeasures are as real an 1 touching as they„jand give them tlieir dcej>est relish, 'i'he addi-;tional flowers in October are almost confined to the.anemone and scabious ; and the flowering-ti ees and!shrubs to the evergreen cytisus. Ihjt the hedges^(and here let us observe, that the fields and other:walks that are free to everyone are sure to supplyus with pleasure, when every ether place fails,)!are now sparkling with tlieir abundant berries,—-the wild rose with the hip, the hawthorn with thehaw, the blackthorn with the sloe, the bramble:with the blackberry ; and the briony, privet, honey¬suckle, elder, holly, and woody night-shade, with:their other winter feasts for the birds. The wineobtained from the elder-berry makes a very plea- jsant and w holesome drink, wdien heated over a fire;but the humbler sloe, which the peasants eat, getsthe start of him in reputation, by changing its nameito port, of which wine it certainly makes a consi- isiderable ingredient.Swallows are generally seen for the last time)this month, the house-martin the latest. The red¬wing, field-fare, snipe, Royston crow, and wood-pigeon, return from more northern parts. TherooKs return to the roost trees, and the tortoise be¬gins to bury himself for the winter. The morn¬ings and afternoons increase iir mistiness, thoughthe middle of the day is often very fine ; and no iweather when it is unclouded, is apt to give aclearer and manlier sensation than that of October.One of the most curious natural appearances is thegossamer, which is an infinite multitude of little ^SCRAP BOOK. 9■a breads shot out by minute spiders, who are thus' ivafted by the wind from place to place.The chief business of October, in the greatconomy of nature, is dissemination, which is pet -ormed among other means by the high windswhich now return. Art imitates her as usual, and(ows and plants also. \\ e have already mentioi edhe gardener. I his is the time for the domesticCultivator of flowers to finish planting as well,:speciaily the bulbs that arc intended to flower!arly in spring. And as the chief business ot na*c ure this month is dissemination or vegetable birth,i io its chief beauty arises from vegetable death it-lielf. We need not tell our readers we allude tohe changing leaves with all their lights and shades)f green, amber, red, light red, light and darkgreen, white, brown, russet, and yellow of all sorts.i PASSAGES IN A PROVOST’S LIFE.THE PRESS-GANG.i< During the same just and necessary war for alls that was dear to us, in which the volunteers weren raised, one of the severest trials happened to mejjjthat ever any magistrate was subjected to. I had,; at the time, again subsided into an ordinary coun-(*. sellor, but it so fell out, that by reason of Mrfc Shuttlethrift, who was then provost, having occa->i sion and need to go into Glasgow upon some3i affairs of his own private concerns, he being inter-3 ested in the Kilbeacon Co ton Mid, and Mr Dal-(i rye, the bailie, who should have acted for him he¬lp ing likewise from home, anent a plea he had withk-Ifr THE MONTHLYa neighbour concerning the bounds of thfcir rigand gables, the whole authority and power of thmagistrates devolved, by a courtesy on the part ctheii colleague Bailie Hammerman, into my hands.bor some time before, there had been an ingathering among us of sailor lads from the neighbouring ports, who, on their arrival, in order tcshun the press-gangs, left their vessels, and cam.to scog themselves with us. By this a rumour oa suspicion rose, that the men-of-vvars-men wer*'suddenly to come at the dead hour of the night antsweep them all away. Heaven only knows:whether this notice was bred in the fears and jeailousies of the people, or was a humane inkling igiven by some of the men-of-wars-men, to put th. Jpoor sailor lads on their guard, was never knowingBut, on a Saturday night, as I wms on the eve ofstepping into my bed, 1 shall never forget it, Mrs!Paw kie was already in and as sound as a door-nail,and 1 was just crooking my mouth to blow out thecandle, when I heard a rap. As our bed-roomwindow was over the door, I looked out. It was ia dark night, but I could see by a glaike of lightfrom a neighbour’s w-indow that there was a manwith a cocked hat at tlte door.“ U hat’s your will?” said 1 to him, as I look¬ed out at him in my night-cap. He made noother answer, but that lie was one of his Majesty’sofficeis, and had business with the justice.I did not like this Englilication and voice ofclaim and authority; however, J drew on mystockings and breeks again, and taking my wife’s;flannel coaty about my shoulders, for I was thenSCRAP BOOK. 11troubled with rheumatise, I went down, and, ope-jrinng the door, let in the lieutenant,“ I come,” said he, “ to show you my warranthjmd commission, and to acquaint you that havingc Information of several able-bodied seamen being inhe town, I mean to make a search for them.”1 I really did not well know what to say at thei moment; but I begged him, for the love of peacebaud quietness, to defer Ins work till the nexti tnorning ; but he said he must obey his orders,i and he was sorry that it was his duty to beon so disagreeable a service, with many otherithings, that showed something like a sense ofcom-i ipassion, that could not have been hoped for in the: captain of a press-gang.When he had said this," he then wrent away,v saying, for he saw my tribulation, that it would beSas well for me to be piepared in case of any riot.This was the worst newrs of all ; but what could1 do? I thereupon went again to Mrs Pawkie,and shaking her awake, told her what was goingon, and a terrified woman she was. 1 then( dressed myself with all possible expedition, and9 ) went to the town clerk’s, and w’e sent for the? . town officers, and then adjourned to the councilchamber, to w^ait the issue of what might betide.In my absence, Mrs Paw'kie rose out of herbed, and by some wonderful instinct, collecting allthe bairns, wrent with them to the minister’s house,as to a place of refuge and sanctuary.Shortly after we had been in the council room,I opened the window, and looked out, but all wasstill j the town was lying in the defencelessness of12 THE MONTHLYsleep, ami nothing was heard bat the clicking othe town-clock in the steeple over our head:By and bye, however, a sough and pattering ofeet was heard approaching ; and shortly after, ilooking out, we saw the press-gang, beaded btheir officers, with cutlasses by their side, angreat club-sticks in their hands. They said northing, but the sound of their feet on the silenstones of the causey was as the noise of a dreadfulengine. I hey passed, and went on ; and ail thatwere with me in the council stood at the windowsand listened. In the course of a minute or tw>after, two lassies, with a callan, that had been outcame flying and wailing, giving the alarm to thtown. Then we heard the driving of the bludgoons on the doors, and the outcries of terrifieswomen ; and, presently after, we saw the poo;chased sailors running, in their shirts, with theiclothes in their hands, as if they had been felon'and blackguards caught in guilt, and flying fromthe hands ofjustice.I lie town was awakened with the din, as withthe cry of fire ; and lights came starting forwardas it were, tc the windows. The women wereout with lamentations and vows of vengeance. !•was in a state of horror unspeakable. Then canmsome three or four of the press-gang, with a strug-gling sailor in their clutches, with nothing but histrowsers on, his shirt riven from his back in thefury. Syne came the rest of the gang, and theirofficers, scattered, as it were, with a tempest ofjmud and stones, pursued and battered by a troop:of desperate women and weans, whose fathers andli SCRAP BOOK. 13brothers were in jeopardy. And these were fol¬lowed by the wailing wife of the pressed man, withher five bairns, clamouring in their agony to Hea¬ven against the king and government for the out¬rage. I could na listen to the fearful justice oftheir outcry ; but sat down in a corner of theW council-chamber, with my fingers in my ears.In a little while, a shout of triumph rose fromfthe mob, and we heard them returning, and I felt,as it were, relieved ; but the sound of their voicesbecame hoarse and terrible as they diewnear;and, in a moment, I heard the jingle of twentybroken windows rattle in the street. My hearmisgave me; and, indeed, it was my own windowsThey left not one pane unbroken ; and nothingkept them from demolishing the house to thej ground-stone but the exhortations of Major Pipe;twho, on hearing the uproar was up and out; anddid all in his power to arrest the Jury of the tu¬mult. it seems, the mob had taken it into theirhead that I had signed, what they called the press-warrants ; and, on driving the gang out of thetown, and rescuing the man, they came to revengethemselves on me and mine ; which is the cause,that made me say, it was a miraculous instinctt! that led Mrs Pawkie to take the family to MrPittle’s; for had they been in the house, it is notHi to he told what the consequences might have been.Before morning the riot was ended ; hut thedamage to my house was very great; and 1 wasi intending, as the public had done the deed, thatI the town should have paid for it. “ But,” said1 Mr Keelivine, the town-clerk, “ I think you mayf14 THE MONTHLYdo better ; and this calamity, if properly handledto the government, may make your fortune.”reflected on the hint ; and, accordingly, the nextday, I went over to the regulating Captain of theipress-gang, and represented to him the great!damage and detriment which I had suffered ; re¬questing him to represent to government, that it!was all owing to the part I had taken in his behalf.To this, for a time, he made some scruple of ob¬jection ; but, at last, he drew up, in my presence,,a letter to the- lord’s of the Admirality ; telling,what he had done, and how he and his men had;been ill-used ; and, that the house of the chief-magistrate of the town, had been in a manner de-,stroyed by the rioters.By the same post, I wrote off myself to theLord Advocate, and likewise to the Secretary o:State, in London ; commending, very properly*the prudent and circumspect manner in which theofficer had come to apprize me of his duty, antgiving as faithful an account as 1 well could of theriot; concluding, with a simple notification owhat had been ('one to my house, and the outcrythat might be raised in the town were any paiof the town’s funds to be used in the repair.Botli the Lord Advocate and Mr Secretary ofState wrote me back by retour of post, thankingme for my zeal in the public service ; and 1 wasinformed, that as it might not be expedient to agitate in the town the payment of the damage whichmy house had received, the Lords of the -treasurywould indemnify me for the same ; and this wasdone in a manner which showed the blessings wtiSCRAP BOOK. ]5o enjoy, under our most venerable constitution ; forI was not only thereby enabled, by what I got, tof repair the windows, but to build up a vacant^steading; the same, which I settled last year onmy dochter, Marion, when she was married toMr Geery, of the Gatherton Holme.OR,Reformed Presbyterian Church ;Cameronians.■r Th,s bo(jy HOW assume the name of Old Presby-istei ian Dissenters. I hey are peculiarly distin¬guished in the page of In story as “ The Cove¬nanters” from the very active part their forefathersacted previous to the Revolution in 1688. Theseocottish reformers found it necessary at that periodto unite in various solemn bonds or covenants, forpromoting and maintaining the interests of truereligion, as Well as for their mutual defence ; andthey are still strenuous advocates for the bindingobligation of the national covenant of Scotland, andot the solemn league and covenant of the threeungdoms. Various names have been bestowedupon them.—Their most general appellation‘‘ Camerontuns,” is derived from the rev. RichaidijCameron, who fell at Air moss, in Kyle, 20th ofi Ju!y, 1680 ■.—Mountain-men, from their having|] .en been obliged, even in modern times, to ad-Wmmister the ordinances in the open fields.—They•ishave been also Anti-government-people ”mbut which they reject with indignation. It is,■ohowever true, that they entertain decided scruples-•as to the terms, or fundamental conditions, onijwhich .persons are admitted into places of power—*THE MONTHLY16an.l trust in the nation. Could they, in judgment!and conscience, approve of these ; did theythem agreeable to the plainly revealed will ot God,Iwhich they consider as the standard of human con-iduct, in civil, as well as in religious, society; ami!could they once be persuaded^ in their own mindsetthat they are consistent with the fundamental laws-of the kingdom, in the purest time ot that reforma-jtion, to which they wish still to adhere ; instead)of differing from the other inhabitants of BritainJabout the acknowledgement of the civil powersjthey would find a pleasure in concurring with!them. But plainly perceiving that the presenttterms of advancement to power are of a ditfeientj’description, and especially, seeing that an unwar¬ranted supremacy over the church of Christ ismade an essential part of the constitution, and thesupport of it, in their respective stations, the posi¬tively fixed and indispensible conditions upon vvhicf ipersons are admitted to fill the several places 01power; the Old Dissenters cannot, in judgmentapprove, but find themselves under the disagreea¬ble necessity of openly entering their protest agamsinational backsliding, either in church oi stateMeanwhile, let it be observed, that after public!}entering their dissent from the Revolution settle1;ment of church an.l state, and candidly assigningtheir reasons, it ever hath been, and they tiusnjever shall be, their study to live peaceably and inoffensively, without giving disturbance either tlsmall or great.SCRAP BOOK. ITSYNOD OF RELIEF.:Fhe members of the Relief Kirk are a species ofDissenters in Scotland, whose chief ground of dis¬tent fi jm the Establishment is,—the liberty andrivilege which they maintain in choosing theirjAvn ministers.In 1762, when Mr Thomas Gillespie, minister>f Carnock, in the presbytery of Dunfermline, wasleposed by the General Assembly, for refusing toissist at the admission of Mr Andrew Richardson,n the parish of Inveikeithing, the parishioners, ingeneral, being unwilling to receive him as their>astor. Mr Gillespie’s sitnation now rendereddm more conspicuous and popular than before ;nd a chapel was soon built for him in Dunferm-ine, where he continued to preach to a congrega-ndon that was much attached to him, and to opposeihe law of patronage in the Kirk. Nor was itong before he was joined by Mr Thomas Boston,ninister of Oxnam, who, being refused the pre*entation, when the town-council, kirk-session, and| great body of the people in Jedburgh, declaredn his favour, on a vacancy in their kirk, gave in5?iis demission to the presbytery of Jedburgh, andundertook the pastoral care of that people, in con¬nection with Mr G.Mr Boston’s cause was brought before the Ge¬neral Assembly, who declared him incapable ofreceiving a presentation, or even of preaching in anarish church ; and all its members were prohibi-|hd from holding ministerial communion with him.I Being thus excluded from the communion ofLie Kirk, these two gentlemen, and a Mr Collier,18. THE MONTHLYoriginally from Fife, who had been officiating forsome time among the Dissenters in England, butwas now recalled to take charge of a congregationat Colinsburgh, together with some ordained el¬ders, constituted themselves into a presbytery atthis last place, whose inhabitants were the firstwho formally applied to them for relief, hencecalled “ The Presbytery of Reliefbeingwilling, say they, to afford relief from the rigorousexecution of the act of patronage, to all “ who ad¬hered to the constitution of the Church of Scotland,as exhibited in her creeds, canons, confessions, andforms of worship.”Their views of church-communion are not socontracted as those of the Seceders, for they per- •mit their members, in the absence of their pastor,or when they are at a distance from any chapel intheir own communion, “ to join in any other so¬ciety of sound Presbyterians, where the speaker isknown to be orthodox, of good report and regu¬larly called to the ministry.” Many of their peo¬ple receive the sacrament of the Lord’s supperwith equal readiness in the established Kirk asin their own ; and they admit to communion, notonly Presbyterians^ but Christians of every deno¬mination, who, “ as far as they can judge, have acompetent measure of knowledge, are sound in thefaith, and unblamable in their lives, though nottheir followers.”Mr Gillespie assured the public, that “ hisviews were to hold communion with all who ap¬pear to hold communion with the head, our LoidJesus Chiist, and with such only and theirSCRAP BOOK. 19Ifjsynod lias determined, “ that it is agreeable to theprinciples of the Presbytery of Relief, to hold com¬munion with visible saints in the Episcopalian andIndependent Churches.” -THE METHODISTS.S I he Methodist Society was first founded in 1729-'Mr John Wesley and several others, who in 1735were joined by the celebrated George Whitefield,• constituted its first Association. They formed: rules for the regulation of their times and studies,for reading the Scriptures, and self-examination ;and obtained the name of Methodists from the exactRegularity of their lives, and the systematical man-tier in which all their concerns were conducted.Iln 1735, Mr Wesley and several other breth¬ren embarked for America, where, after remainingsome time he returned to England, and was suc-Iceeded by Mr Whitefield, whose unwearied exer¬tions, and astonishing success, are without a pa¬rallel in the western world. On his return from(America, in 1741, be declared his full assent tothe doctrines of Calvin. Mr Wesley, on the con-Ijtrary, professed the doctrines of Arminius, andihad already written in favour of them, statingsome strong objections in particular against theICalvinistic doctrine of election. This differencebf sentiment between these two eminent mencaused a separation, and their followers continueto be divided to this day.The Wesleyan Methodists, as they are nowcalled, were first formed into a society in 1738,after Mr Wesley’s return from America; when20 THE MONTHLYforty or fifty persons agreed to meet together everyWednesday evening in London, in order to a freeconversation, begun and ended with prayer.^ MrWesley himself was much attached to the Lpisco-pal establishment ; but the churches in generalbeing soon shut against him, he preached in somedissenting chapels in London, also in Newgate,and in different places in the country, where hecould gain admission. Inconsequence of lyingunder this kind of proscription, and multitudescrowding from all quarters-to hear him, he was atlength compelled to take the open air, and com¬mence field preacher.Mr Wesley finding his societies increasing veryfast in London, Bristol, and other places, andhaving in vain solicited assistance from some ofthe established clergy, was induced to select fromhis followers those who appeared best qualified toinstruct the rest. Hence originated his laypreachers, and from a similar cause the localpreachers which abound in this connection. Hav¬ing thus formed a number of active and zealousassistants, he sent them forth in every direction ,some to watch oyer the societies already formed,and others to the highways and hedges, preachingrepentance towards God and faith in our LordJesus Christ, and offering a free salvation to thechief of sinners. Their labours were eminentlyuseful in every part of the kingdom, and numer¬ous societies were formed. Even the colliers oKingswood, and the miners of Cornwall, whowere ignorant and wicked to a proverb, listened tothe animated preaching of these itinerants, bySCRAP BOOK. 21'(whom some thousands of them have been reclaim-: ed from their evil ways. In many places, how-f ever, they were persecuted with unrelenting cruel-.■ ty. Frequently they were beset by mobs, andi assailed by showers of stones ; and sometimes in¬humanly dragged through the streets, until theirmangled bodies were bereft of every symptom1 of life. But Methodism survived all opposition,Band has since been crowned with abundant success.There is now upwards of a million of persons) connected with the Methodists.I he doctrinal sentiments of this denominationare chiefly Arminian ; but they differ on some(points of minor importance. The Methodists holdthe doctrine of original sin, or the total fall of mani in Adam, and his utter inability to recover him-< self, *' without the grace of God preventing andi’ working with him.” General redemption, and ar free salvation extending itself to all, are fimdamen-i] tal points in their system.The government and discipline adopted by thisnumerous body of people are nearly peculiar to; themselves, and are well adapted to unite and con-• solidate the various branches of such an extensive‘ and multifarious society. All thatis necessary torender a person eligible to become a member is,“ a desire to flee from the wrath to come, and tobe saved from sin and to continue in commun-■ ion, he is required to attend regularly on all the< ordinances of public worship, and to maintain ani irreproachable behaviour. A departure from thisrule is followed with admonition, and finally withexclusion, if not reclaimed.r**22 THE MONTHLYVARIETIES.Results of Machinery.- In the seventeenth century, France began ;to manufacture into stuffs the raw cotton imported from India, as Italy \had done a century before. A cruel act of despotism drove the best IFrench workmen, who were protestants, into England, and we learntthe manufacture. The same act of despotism, the revocation of the :edict of Nantes, caused the settlement of silk-manufacturers in Spital- -fields. We did not make any considerable progress in the art, nordid we use the material of cotton exclusively in making up the goods. .The warp, or longitudinal threads of the cloth, were of flax, the weft ionly was of cotton ; for we could not twist it hard enough by hand to <serve both purposes. This weft was spun entirely by hand with a dis- .1taff and spindle,—the same tedious process whicn prevails amongst the pnatives of India. Our manufacture in spite of all these disadvantages, ,continued to increase ; so that about 1700, although there were fifty Sthousand spindles at work in Lancashire alone, the weaver found the tgreatest difficulty in procuring a sufficient supply of thread. Neither :weaving nor spinning were then carried on in large factories. They *were domestic occupations. The women cf a family worked at the 'distaff or the hand-wheel, and there were two operations necessary in 'this department; roving, or coarse spinning, reduced the carded cotton fto the thickness of a quill, and the spinner afterwards drew out and Itwisted the roving into weft fine enough for the weaver. A writer on jithe cotton manufacture, Mr Guest, states, that very few weavers could Jprocure weft enough to keep themselves constantly employed. It was i;no uncommon thing,” he says, “ for a weaver to walk three or four !•miles in a morning, and call on five or six spinners, before he couldcollect weft to serve him for the remainder of the day ; and when hewished to weave a piece in a shorter time than usual, a new ribbon orgown was necessary to quicken the exertions of the spinner.A Ticklish Way to Please It was said of Marlborough that he ^could deny a favour asked, and yet dismiss the person to whom he de¬nied it, better pleased than some other men could do who really con¬ferred the favour. A very old story, told of three brothers, will insome measure explain this seeming paradox of the gallant General.They belonged to a family blessed with abundance of high-soundingtitles, but very deficient in that vulgar necessary “ the king's com.”It was the custom in bygone days, when visiting a noble family—wereit only at a dinner party—to give money to all the servants of the man¬sion according to their respective stations. The two elder brothers were ;often sorely pinched on such occasions to maintain a becoming dignitytowards the menials, while the younger brother took such matters verycoolly, and went through a t.ial scene of this nature with the tltmost ;unconcern. One day the three brothers dined at Lord 15 's, whoseretinue was sufficiently formidable. On retiring from the banquet, theyfound the servants ranked up along the passage “ in horrible array,”from the portly butler down to the frigid whipper-in. When-the elderbrothers had done their best to please the servants, their douceurs werereceived with a cold sort of gravity, unaccompanied by any of thoseSCRAP BOOK.23I;rateful smiles tvhich more than repay a liberal minded man for hisjenevolence. On looking round to see how their younger brother fared,hey were astonished to observe a smile on every countenance Whenairly outside the noble mansion, they inquired at him how he managedto please so well, seeing that they had both given- their last sixpencewithout producing a single sign of approbation ? “ Oh, ho !” says he,' I had no money, but I just kittled their loof, and they were quiteflighted,A Candid Thief—George Hewton, a miserable-looking old man,who, according to his own story, had served his Majesty by “ flood andield,” was indicted for stealing twenty yards of linen from Henry Cole-nan of Francis Street. The prisoner pleaded guilty. The Recordertsked the prisoner if he was aware of the manner in which he hadrltaded to the indictment. The prisoner said he was. Recorder ;Vou had better withdraw that plea, and plead not guilty. Prisoner iJust as your Lordship pleases ; whatever your Lordship wishes : it isill the same to me now : I have neither friend nor fallow; [ am “ runi-ground.” (Laughter,) Recorder—The Court will allow you to(plead not guilty. Prisoner—Very well, your Lordship ; I wish Iswam’t, (Laughter.) The prosecutor -was examined, and he stated•.that the prisoner entered his shop in Francis Street, took a piece oflinen, and marched off with it. Prisoner (interrupting the witness) (And before I could sheer off with it you stopt me grappled with me,and hauled off the canvass. (Laughter.) Recorder—Has the prisonertany thing to ask the witness ? Prisoner—Oh the d—I a word ; he hasIt old the truth, every word of it ; he is an honest young man, and Godkeep him so. (Laughter.) Recorder (addressing the Jury) Gentle-imen, the prisoner is indicted for stealing twenty yards of linen fromHenry Coleman ; you have heard the witness who has been produced ;his evidence has established the case against the prisoner. Prisoner .'iVou are perfectly right, my Lord ; but I hope your Lordship will giveane the benefit of the statute, and transport me out of the country, forH have no means of living in it. The jury returned a verdict of guilty.IThe prisoner was sentenced to seven months imprisonment andhard labour.A Seat in Church.—A very genteel-looking young man was seen toenter a Church in time of service; he paused at the entrance ; the con.,i’regation stared ; he advanced a few steps, and deliberately surveyingthe whole assembly, commenced a slow march up the broad aisle; noti pew was opened; the audience were too busy for civility; he wheel¬ed, and in the same manner performed a march, stepping as it to Ros-lin Castle, or the dead march in Saul, and disappeared. A few mo¬ments after he re-entered with a huge block upon his shoulders, asleavy as he could well stagger under ; his countenance was immovea-sole ; again the good people stared, half-rose from their seats, with their-books in their hands.—At length he placed the block in the very cen-itre of the principal passage, and seated himself upon it. Then, for thefirst time, the reproach was felt. Every pew door in the Church was-instantly flung open. But—no; the stranger was a gentleman ; became24 THE MONTHLYnot there for disturbance ; he moved not; smiled not; hut preserved (the utmost decorum, until the service was concluded, when he shoul- .dered his block, and, to the same slow step, bore away, and replaced iit where he had found it,iVeti' Heresy.—The minister of a neighbouring parish observing thatone of his hearers had absented himself from church for several Sundaystogether, called upon the recusant and upbraided him for his neglect ofChristian duties Ah ! John," said he, “ what’s the matter withyou now, that you’ve been so remiss in attending the kirk of late—is it •Atheisrra, or Deism, or that sad Rowism that’s the causa ?” “ Faithno, Sir," said John, '• it s something a thousand times waur than a1that.” “Save us !” exclaimed the minister,' “ what can that be ?”“ Eh ' d—n it, Sir,” replied John, in a spasm of agony,“ its Rheumatism.”Hint to Husbands.—Bishop Thomas was a man of humour and drol¬lery. At a visitation, he gave his clergy an account of his being mar.ried four times,—” and,” says he cheerfully, “ should my present wifedie. I will take another ; and it is my opinion that I shall survive her.Perhaps you don't kuow the art of getting quit of your wives. I’ll tellyou how to do I am called a very good husband ; and so I am t forI never contradict them. But don’t you know that the want of contra¬diction is fatal to women ? If you contradict them, that circumstancealone is exercise and health, et optima viedicamenta. to all women.But give them their own way, and they will languish and pine, andbecome gross and lethargic for want of this exercise.GARDEN WORK IN OCTOBER.In this and the three following months, dung, dig, andtrench all vacant ground, to be ready for spring crops,covering in the dung well. Plant out early cabbages tocut in May. Towards the middle sow early pease andbeans, and earth them up when two inches high. Aboutthe end plant all kinds of fruit trees; and, before thefrost sets in, gooseberries, currants, rasps, and floweringshrubs. All kinds of trees, whether fruit or foiest, trans¬planted this month, will thrive better than later. Dresswall trees and standards. Prepare ground for planting treesOctober 1st. h.Day breaks, ...4Sun rises, 6  sets, 5m.181248m.October 31s\ hDay breaks, ... 5 IdSun rises, 7-sets,.31Twilight ends, 7 42 . Twilight ends 6 45