THE>4nrtt, ilysCONTENTS.JP A H ? Fl&S T.Pag'.Chap. I. Of his birth -amf pni-«ntage, and whatpaffad between hhn ami 2 country Vicar, &:c. JII. 41 ow a G'arr* inliaeiteT the Mount ofCornwaff, and fpoiled tfie c uhtry theVeabouVs. ^III. How Jack flew this Giant, arid gothimfelf the name of the Giant-killer. ibIV. How Jack was taken by a Giant whileafleep. and how he got his iibertv again. 5V. Ht>w J^ck travelled into jrlintfliire, amiwhat happened there. 6VI. How king Arthur’s Ion, going to feek hwfortune, met with Jack. 9VII. How Jack faved his mailers life, enddrove the evil fpirit out of the Lady. rjPART SECOND.Chap. VlII. How Jack by king Arthur’s leavewtnt in purfuit of Giants yet alive.IC£ How Jack flew a Giant, and delivereda knight and his lady froln death.Xh How* Jack flew the other Giant, and lentboth their heads to king Arthur.XI H*>w fa‘c k learcl ed their iave, and de¬livered many men out of captivity.XII How Jack came to the knight’s houfeand his noble entertainment there.XIII How Jack overthrew the Giant in themoat, and cut oft both his hduds.XIV. Ho w Jack came to the houfe of an oldHerrmt and what dilc vr(c pafled.XV. How Jack got into the jochantedcaftleand broke the enchantment.*3*4JS1718 11921 tGJACKAND THEI A N T S.C H A P. I.| Of h'.s birth and parentage, .and what pajl ^between himand the Country Vicar.IVI the reign of A Log Arthur, near the lands end ofEngland, namely in the county of Cornwall,, theredived a wealthy farmer, who had one only Ion com-slmonly known by the name of Jaek the Giant killer.i|He was brifk and of a lively ready wit, fo that wbat-'jlever he could nut perform by drength, he completedit by (tratagen. ingenious wit, and policy ; never waslany perlou heard of that could word him; nay thesjvery Itavned many times he baffled by his cunning,.jdiarp, and ready inventions.j for ijitance, when he v/as no more than feven1ttyears of age, his father the fanner, lent him into theheld to look after his oxen, which were then feedingin a plealent pattnre. A country vicar, by chance)ue da) coming acrois the field, called to Jack, andliked h m feveral cj-iellions, in particular, how manytommahdments thee were? Jack' told him, therewere nine rhe'j'arfon reply’d, there are ten. Nay,Mquoth Jick) mader parfon you are out of that; if istdue tnere were ten, but you broke one of‘then with[.oar own maid Margery. Ihe parfon replied, thouin an arch wag 3ac'4' Well, mader parlbn, .qanhJack, you have alked me one queition, and 1 havejanlwered it, 1 beleech you let me afle you an»Llier;(Who ji.ade thele oxen? The a fm replied', God(made them, child.- ion are out again, quoth J ick*God made them bu‘l>, bat rn - father and his manvb on made oxen ot them. Thtfe were the witty.linl uers ot J tck. The pa Ibn finding himlelf fooled,UrudgudiSWia^ leaving Jock .im-d lit ct daughter.( 4 }CHAP. II.How a Giant inhabitti the mount of Cornwall, atJpolled the country ih^nakcuts, ire.iN tliofe days the mndnt oi'Cornwall was kept byhuge monftious Giant; 6r 27 feet in height, andabout three yards in compafs, of a fie.ee and grmiCountenance, to- the terror of all the neighbourintow ns and villages". His habitation was in a cave ithe midft of all the mount, neither wotld he fuffer anliving'creature to inhabit near him. His feeding was "upon other mens cattle, which often became his prey,fur whenever he had eccafion for food, he would wad<over the main land, where he would furnifh himfelwith whatever he could find. For the people at hitapproach would for'ake thtir habitations. Theew'onld lie feize upon the cows and oxen, of which ht,vvoi.Id. think nothing-to carry ov er his back half sbozen at a time ; and as for fheep and hogs he wotthtie them round his wailt like a bunch of bandeliers.This be had for many years pra&ife in Coir,wailwhich was much impoverifked by him.But one day Jac* coming to the town hall, whe*the magiiiratcs we-e fitting in con!uliation about tfct 1Giant alked them what reward they would givtto any pe foil that Would deftroy him? They anfwered, he lhauld have all the Giant’s trealiire in. recent*perfe. Quoth Jack, then 1 mySelf will undertake tinweik.CHAP III.How Jack flew the Giant, and got himftlj. the name'ofkJ. ck the Giant killer.JACK having undertaken this talk, he furnilhed himfjfelf with a horn, a fhovel, and a pick-axover co the mount he goes, in the beginning of a darjlwinter evening, wheie he fell to work, and befor/morning had digged a pit forty feet de p, and almofflas broad, and covored. the lame over with long Hicksf J )liraw, then ftrewing a little of the mouli-up->rt*i t, lb that appeared like plajn ground.f This done Jack placet hirni'elT'tm the contrary fide*of the pit, jaIt-about the dawning rS the day, when. patUog the ..horn - to his mouth he then blew, tanwivie, tan twivie. Which unexpected uo fe rouledihe Giant, w.ho came forth roaring t- weds Jick,yhig j^ut.j 1 corrigible villain ! are you c me here• -o dlru’b my relj ? You Ilia 11 dearly pay for it' 8a:-, a 1 wilt rfitw. apd it (hall be that; I will.! ake you wholly, aud broil you to my breakhilf,  ,*|V-bich w.ords were no. fooner .out ot his mouihp butiie-turnbleU beadUng into tlie deep pit, wnofe heavyj.i Ui matte; the ver5' foundations of the mount toll Tike,i Oh Giant! wheie are you now ! t’auji you are gat-ijpn-i-nto Loblvs. pond, where I will place you fv yaufiiti'eatnrng wo-'-d;. Wfeat-tlo you taink now ofbfioU-|g me tor your brc^k&ftl Will no ( t-.er diet (ervesou but poor Jack ? Thus, having tautahzsd. the Giantt>r a white, he gave-him a in id weighty knock uponji>e cro.wn of the head with his pick ax, that he ir. -j.edlately tumbled down, and,giving a molt dreadful '| roan he died. This dUine jack threw the earth inion him., and To buried him ; .then goiog.and ,!eirth»g the cave he found - a great quantity ot tre dure.j4ow when tiie magiilratev. who emplay.etl/liim,. rard the work was over, they fent for him, 4eciu: c.g that he Ihould henceforth be called Jack the Ciin.t-ller. And in honour thereof, they prdented h,mith a I wort}, together'with a rich line - embroidered':it, on theft words were'wrojiglu in letters of gold.Here’s the right V ali u.L CornUh man.Who fiew ilie Giant Corine'ian.*ty Jack was. taken iy r< C'ayt ■'rJ?e +, ’nu i '. ;-j"'HE news of Jack’s victory was (bet: fp;cad everill the weltcrn parts, ft that another huge GiantC ti A P. IVhe git his ! ijr'y( 6 )named Blurderboar hearing of it, vewed to he re-verged oa Jack, if ever it was his fortune to light u|t-p n him. This Giant kept an enchanted caftle fun-ated in the midft cf a louelbme wood: Now Jack a-bout four months after, walking near the borders of ^the faici wood, on his journey towards Wales, he .•grew weary, and therefore fat hitnfelf down by the ifide of a pleafent foantain, where a deep fieep feized 1on him; at which time the Giant coming there forWater found him, and by the lines writ-ten uppen hisbelt, knew him to be jack that killed his brother juGiant, and therefore without making any words, he ►throws him upon his fhculder, fax to carry him to'his enchanted cable.Now as they palled throw a thnket. the ruflliflg ‘of the boughs awaked poor Jack, who finding himleff .in the clutches of the Giant, he was ftrangdy fur*prifed; yet it was but the beginning of his terrors;for *t the firft entering within the walls of the cafl'c ihe beheld the ground all covered with bones and Ifeuils of dead men. The Giant telling Jack that his :bones would enlarge the number of thole that be f w.This laid, he brought him into a large parlour wb reht beheld the bloody punters ©f fome that were late- ^Jy Cain, and-in the next raom were many hearts andlivers; wltich the Giant to terrify Jack, told him,, ^* 1 hat mens hearts and livers were the choice!! of4 his diet, for he commonly, as he laid, eat them.‘ with peper and vinegar; adding that he did not '‘ (juelfion but his heait would make him a dainty* bit.” Ibis (aid, he locks up poor* Jack in an up¬per room, leaving him there, while he went to fetchanother Giant, living in the lame wood, that he might jbe partaker in the pier lure which they would have in'the deltruclion of poor Jack.Now when be was gone, dreadful flirieks and criet r,affrighted poor Jink, elpecialy a voice which conti* ,nusily cried.Da what you can, to get away,Qr you’U beco:ne the Giant’s prey.He* gpr.e tg. fetch hjs brother, uhaWill kill and likewi'e-torture you.This iirca 'tul paale fg amazed pror jack that he; %t-as ready to, run diftraded ; then ' feeing from theWindow afar off, the two Giants coming together,i 9©'v 4'apih to nimieU, my 'death or deliverance is at. feandri liere were Prong cord? in the room by him, of: | which, he took two. at .^he cad- of tThhh lie made‘sUoofo; and white the Giant was u.viockHig the iroa-t gate, he threw th^ ropes over each of their heads,and then drawing the other end 'acrols the beam,, where he pulled with afl his main hrength. until he|j had tlm-atled tlvem. a,ud then f-ftening tije r-'pe to! the beam, turned towards the windjw, wlieie.hci bclte'd the two Giants to be black in' th?ir faces;then fl'dir p dow n by the rope he came dofo to'their• heads; v. hwe the helpiefs Giants could not - defendthernfel ves, and di a wing out hit Iwo d, flew tiibiirboth, aod dslivcrJ himieif’frrm this intended cruelty-He th n taking a' bunch of keys^ he unlocked therooms, where, upon a Prick fewch-, he found threeI fair Ladies tied by' the h dr of t.eir heads, almolt• I (Iartrtd to death, who told ja k that their hufcand* weraby the Giant, and that they were kept manI days without food, in order to force them to feedupon the flefh of their Imfbanch ; which they 'woulunot, if they were flarved td death.Sweet Ladies, quoth Jack, 1 have dedroved tl.ifTOonPer and his brutiih brother, by which 1 have oh.i tained your liberties. This fa id, he predated' themvyith the keys of the callle, aud fj preceded 014 hi#■ journey 1 Wales*C H A P. VI.» Jbw Jjck trev:■!!■:d into Flitti-jhirg &ndv>hM HappenJACK having, but very little money,, thought it pru¬dent to- make the led a!" hi, v. ay by uato’U'ig,.< 3 )is fafl as be couH, but lofing his roaJ was benightedand could not get a phife ef entertainment, until hecame to a valley, placed between two hills, whereflood a large houfe, in a ionefbnie place, and by rea-fon of his prefent condition, he took courage to knockat the gate; and to his furprifeithere came forth amonftrous Giant, having two heads, yet he did notfeem fo furc.c as the others had been, for he was aWelfh Giant, apd what he did was by private andfecret mali e un^er the faffe fhew of liiendfhip, andj,;ck telling his Condition, he hid him welcome, (hew¬ing him a room with a bed in it, whereupon he mighttake his nigbt’s repofe. Therefore Jack uttdrefTedhimfelf, and as the Giant was walking away to an¬other room. Jack heard him mutter thefe few tvordsto himfelf. •Tho’ here you lodge with me this night.You (halt not fee the mornmg light.My club fhail dalh your brains out qu'te.Sayefl thou fo,’ qnoth Jack, this is likenone of your :'We]fh tricks, yet i hope to be cunning enough foryou. Then getting <xit Led, he put a billet »h hisflead, and hid hiniiei^-in the corner of the room . arul.in the dead time of the mght, the Wtiih-Giant earnedwith his-great knotty club, and (truck' feveral heavyMows upon the bea where Jack had Ja'd tbe-biUetyjand t| ea returned to'his own cjiambcr, fuppoiing liehad broken ail the hones in h.s body.In the morning jack gave him hearty, thanks for'his lodging. The Giant Uid-tu him, How have youreiled? Did not yo,u fei fomething in the night? Koi 'thing, quo'h Jack, but a rat which gave me tlvee or;four flaps with her tail. Soon after the Giant aiofe1and went to break fell with a bowel of ha fly puddingconfa’iiing near four gallons, giving Jack the likequantity; who being loth to Jet the Giant know hecould not eat with him, got 3 large leather bag put¬ting it very artfully under his great coat, into which( 9 )he fecretfy convened the puddinc;, telling the Gianthe ‘could ihew him a tviok; then taking a large knife'he riped open the* bag, which the Giant duppofed itto be his belly-, when out- came the hafly pudding.At which the V/elih Giant c<ied out, Cots plut, hurcan do dat trick her lei f. Then taking a fiiarp knifehe ripped up his own belly, from- the bottom to thetop; and out dropped his tripes and trolly-bags, fothat hur fell dow* for dead. Thus Jack oa wiltedthe Giant, and proceeded forward on his journey.CHAP. VI.How king Arthur i pin, gubig'to, feck his fortune, met■with J-ick.KING Arthur’s fon only defired of his father toturnilh him with a certain lum of m m y, thathe might go and leek'his fortune in the Principalityof Wales, where a beautiful lady lived, -whom heheard was polfeffed with Icven evil fpirits. But theking his father advifed him utterh a gain ft it, yet liewould not be perfuaded againft -it; (o that he grantedwhat he vequelted, which was one horfe loaded .withmoney, and an«ther for himl'elf to ride,on; thus he:nt forth without any attendants.Now after feveial da.s travel he came to a markettown in Wales, where he beheld a large concourfeof people gathered together; the king’s fob demand-ied the realbn of it, and was told that they had ar-jrelled a corpfe for many large lums of money‘which;he deceafed owed when he d ed. The kings fon re¬plied, It is a pity that creditors (hould be fp cruel, goSurry the dead, laid he, and let his creditors come tomy lodgings, and their debts (hall be difcharged. .Ac¬cordingly, they came, and in Inch great numbers, thatbc'ore night he had left himleti pennylefs.Now Jack the Giant killer being there, and feeingi:he gefterolity'of the kingV fan, ‘he was taken withVun and delired to be his lervant; it was agreed u-mn, and the next morning they fst forward, whenf )riding miit at town end, an old'woman called afterhim, crying ost, tie was owing me twopence tliefelive years,'pray Sir, pay nit as well as the reit. Hepats h'rs hand into his pocket, and gave it her, it beingthe laft lie had left. Then the king’s fon turning toJack, laid, T cannot tell how I fnall fiibST in mv in-'tended journey. Kor that tjobth Jack, take you nothought nor care* let me alone, i warrant you wewill not waff?, «Now. Jack fcav'ng a fhtatf IpeJj in his pocket, whichferved at noon to give them a refrefiiment. whichdone, they had not one penny left betwixt them, the :afternocn they ipent in travel and fa'iniii ir and friendlydilcourfe, tmiil the lua hegan £o grow low, at whichtiniest the king’s fon lam, jack, lllice we have nonioney, where caO we think to lodge this night? J*ckreplied, Mafler, we’ll do well enough, tori have anunde that lives within two tittle miles of this phee; <he is a huge and nfonirrous Giant with three head-; jhe’ll fight sit ■c bundled men in arm..ur, and “make 1them to fly befoi vihim, A Us ! quoth the kings f'on, * jwhat ihall we do there; he’ll ceruialy .chop as berth Jup af one rrioufbfu!; nay, we are fcaice enough to;«fill oiie of his hollow teeth, Jt is no matter tor that,quoth Jack, .1 inyfdf will go before, and prepare tho-wajr. for you.; tliCrefive tarry here, and wail my i‘e- /■turn.Va waits, and Jafk tides full fpeed, when eon-nas;to the gate of the cattle, he knocked with (itch a.'.';force, that made all the neighbouring hills ■ efoundt. iJfieGisiit, w-ith a voice like thuinler, roared out; Jb'VhQ’s there; He antwered, none but your poornephew jack* Qucth he. What news with.niy poor jnephew jack ’ He replied, Dear unde, heavy new?! 4G' .; wot, pri.hre, what heavy news can coats to tnei ].,1 an; r. ‘ daut with three heads; and bcildes, thoti ]»no.rs : car fight five huudred men in armourtyid■soft it e *’:>+?. fly like chaff before the wind. Oh! but.A.)li that you hive. Oh! nephew Jack, this is heavy news| indeed: I have a large vault under the ground, where, 1 will go immediately and.hide rnyfeif, and thoo{ fhalt leek, bolt; and bar me,in, and keep the keysf| till the king’s fon is gone.Now Jack having fecured the Giant, he Toon fe¬lt turned and fetched his maker, and we e b<>th heavti-;[ !y merry with the wine, and other dain.ics whichJ wfre in the boule. So that n'ght they relied in very! pieafent lodgings, while the poor uncle the Giant la/! t:embling'm the vault under the gioimd.I Early in the morning, Jack fu.niihed Ihs maker|l with a frelh fupply ol gold tad river, ar.d fo fetunghim thi^e miles forward on his' journey, concludingi! he Was then pretty well out of the fnieifuf the Giantland then returned to let his uncle out of the hole;I who aiked Jack, what he would g:ve him in ’rewardI that his calile was not dcmolifiied. Why, quoth Jack,1 ddre nothing but'the old coat and cip, together|j with that old may l-.vord and flipcis which are at|j your bed head. Quoth the G"aht, ' Tha u ihalt have| them, and pray .keep rhem for my lake, for they are: 1 thing? of excellent ufe: the coat will keep you invi-Ifible, the cap will lurnilh ybu with krnowiedg., the•ifword cuts in (under whatever you ftrike, and the(hoes are of extraordinary I wifi t'.els : ’I'hele may boferviceable to you, and therefore pray take them withall my L«nt. Jack takes them, and thanking hisuncle, he follows his mailer.CHAP. VII.Hi-M J ck faved his iua!laxs tifty and dr-ozm the tviti, J pints out ths la:y.JACK having overtaken his mailer, they foou afterarrived at lire lady’s hou c, who finding the ktug '< ■ ion to be a fu»tor, (be prepared a banquet for him;which 'beityj ended, (he wiped her mouth with herno row niO’ning, or elfe you lofe your head, and ,vi h that (he put it to her borom.The king’s fon -went to led very forrowfut, butJack’s cap of knowledge intruded hiir. how to obtainit. In the middle of the night (he called upon herfamiliar fp'.rit to carry her to her friend Lucifer;'jack foon put on his coat of darkneG, with his (Isoesof fwtftnds, and w as there as foon a? her, by realonof his coat they could not lee him. When (he enter* ,ed the place, (he gave the handkerchief to old Luci¬fer, who laid it-upon the flu If, from whence Jacktook it, and brought 't to his matter, \dho (hewed itto the lady the next day, and fo la\ed his life.The next night (lie tainted the king’s fqn, tell nghim he mutt (hew her to-morrow morning the lipsthat the kified latt this,night, or lo(e his head. Ah!replied lie, if y ou kits none but mine, I will. : ; is-neither here nor there, fujd the, if you do not. death’syenr portion. At.midnight ft.e w«nt as befoje,, au3jwas angry with Lucifer far lettT.g the handkerchiefaway; but now, laid Hie, I’l 1 be too hard for the.king’s fon, for 1 will kits thee, and he’s to drew thylips; which (he did. Jack, (lauding near, him wrhIns (word of lharpnefs, cut off the devil’s head, andljhroiinht it under hir. invifible coat to his'mailer, whenwas in bed, and laid it at tire head 01 ids bolfier. Itijjthe niu ning when the lady came up-, he pulled it|'out by the horns, and (hsr.ed • her the dtiil’s hcad»|which Ihe kitFed lad.i fin* havii.g antwered her twice, the inebantmen'broke, and the evil (pint left her ; at wifeh tiuw. (he appeared in all beauty ; a beautiful and vbttjous.cr.amre. They were, married the next morningin great pomp, and (ohmni'.y, and To®n after the;re turned; with- a numerous-cumj^any, to the com. of King Arthur, where • they wore received vyi-h th- ^rca-ely-j...y, ii,nd l ud. ac-iauidtious, by the vvlrol!( M )court, jack for th<r many and great exploits lie haddone for the good fcf his country, was. made one ofthe knights of the round table.Thus we have fmilhed the firft part of this Hiftory,which now leads us to the lecond part, wherein youhave a more 'full account of the many valiant andwonderful expl-its, which were do.ie by that bold,adventrous, great, iavinfible, and va’liant hero Jackthe Giant-killer.PART SECOND.CHAP. VIII.How Jack, by King Xrtbut's have, went in- purjuitof Gianti alive.TACK having been luecefsful in all his undertakings,he refaiyed not to be idle for the future, but to, perform what frvice bcc-uid for the honour of his• king and country. He humbly recjueiifed of the kinghis royal mafter, to fit h'un_with a horle and monej totravel in leanh of new and itrange adventures: for,laid he, theie a*e many Giants yet alive in the re-nicteft parts of the kingdom, and the dominions of\Va4es, to the untpe .ka1 le dan age of your Mdjelts’sliigeTubjecis ; wheiefoie, may,it pUafe your Majehyt - give me encouragement I doubt hot but in a (liorttime to cui them off root atd branch, and to rid the•leulm of the Giants and (devouring -ai on tiers of nature.Now when the king bad heard thofe noble propofi-tjons, and had ■dulyToufn'ered the raHcheviou.vp aiticescf theie blood-thi-ity Giants, .he immediately grantedwhat hoffleft Jiick reque ued, and on the Gill day ofMarch, • and thoroughly ftiniifhed with all necefTariesfor his progiefs, he took his leave, not only o. kingArthur, but like wife of all his trullyand hardy knightsbelonging to the round table, wiio, after muth Hlu.( M 5tatioa aud friendly greeting, they parted, the kingantf his nohles to their courtly palates,' and J.uk theGiant-killer to the-eager purlii't of .i riune’s favour’s,taking with him his op of knowledge, (word offftarpnels, llioes of fwiftne's, and likewife the invifibleCoat, th’ better to pci fed and complete the dange- .rous eutei prizes that lay before him.CHAP. IX.Hew Jack few a Giant, and delivered a knight andtis iady frow death. .TACK travelling over valt hills and wonderftil«J mountains, .when at the end of three days, he'came to a large and (raciou; wood, through whichhe ir.uil needs pals, when ryi a fudden to his greatamazement, he heard dreadful fluieks 'and cries, where¬upon carting his eyes around to ohferve what it mightbe, he beheld with winder a -Giant rulhing along witha worthy kn'g’nt and hi? ftir I'dy whom lie held bythe hair of their licads in his bands, with as muche- fe as If they had been a pdr : f gloves, the fight ofwhich melted poor Jack into tear# of pity and com-'p.iffiotf: wn-reupon he alighted from «iff his hpil^,which'he lefct. tied to.an'oak fiec, and puttirg on. Hisin viuble 'coat, und- r Whid)'he carried his fword offttarpDjtfs, he. came up to the Giant j and though hemade fev-eral pallls at hini, yet ne/etthe’els it could1 could- not reach the trunk of Kis Sody, by reafon ofhis height, though it wounded his thighs in Severalplace;: but at length giving him a fwinging (lioke,he cut elf both Hi> legs flirt below ilie knees, fo thatthe trunk of his body made not only the ground to’(hake, bit likewife the trees to tremble with the forceof his h 11, at which, by- mere good fortune, theknight aud his lady efcaped hit rage, then had Jacktime to. t;tlk with him, letting his foot upon his neck,laid, Thou lavage and baibarous wretch, I am cometo execute upon you ;tbe juU reward «f year villany.JAiuTwith that running'Hiib through aeJ-iH-on^h, the'jmonfter let forth a hhlc us groan, and yielded up IIS'llife into the hands'of the \aliant corquiror Jack theIjGiant killer, while the'n ble knight and virtuousilady w'C'e both joyful (peekstors of his fudden down-f fal, and their own deliverance.This being done, the cot.r ecus knight and his ftirlady, not only returned him hearty thanks for theiri deli.eranee, fcukalfo invited h/m home, there to re-I fttfli himfelf af rr the dreadful eneotmter, as likewi'ej to receive fotr.e ample regard by way of gratitude fofj h s good fervice, No, quoth Jack, 1 cannot he at esfet till I find out the den uh;ch u a* this motiftei^ bafci-i tation. The k'n’ght hearing this waxed right torrow-1 ful, and repli d, Noble lhange, it >s too much to rurfJ a fecond rifle; ff this noted monller lived in ;v denill Milder yonder mountain, with a brother of his morefierce and fieiy than hin illf, and therefore if you'I ffcould go thither and.perifh in the attempt, it wouldbe the heart breaking of bo h me and my lady : herelet me perfude you to go with us, and deftd.fiom anyfarther attempt. Nay, quo’h Jack, if there be ano¬ther, nay, if th ic w<- e t < nty 1 would Ihed rue fa ftdtop of blood in n.y body before one of them efcapemy fury, and when t have fimfhed this talk I willcome and pay my rel’ptifis to you.bo tikrng idirtiffioti to their h. bitition, he mount¬ed his hbiie, leaving them to recurA home, while betvent In purfuit pfVthe decca'ed Ciiar.fH brother.C H A P. -X.Hvw J.ich flew the other Cresht. aril jent both theirh'ddi to Kinz Kr hur.HE, had wot tode pall a mile and a half LefVe hecame in 'tight of the cave’s mouth, near to theenteranea of wihich he, beheld the othei Giant fittingupon a huge block of timber^ with u knotted iron( It )■club lying by bis (itle, v/£.itiiig as he fuppofed, bis(brother’s return with bis cruel prey ; bis g'’gle eyesappeared like terrible flumes of fire, bis countenancegrim and ugly, and bis cheeks appeared I'-ke a coupleof large and fat flitches of bakeu ; moreover the brif-ties of his beard leemed to refemble rods ( f iron wire,his locks bang down upon bis broad fhoulders lik^.curled fnakes or hifling adders.Jack alighted from his horfe, and put him into athicekt, then with his coat of darknefs he came fome*what near to behold the figure, and faid foftly. Oh !are you there? It will not^c long e’re I fliall takeyou by the beard. T he Oiant all this time couldnot lee him by reafon of his invifible coat, fo comragup to him, valiant Jack fetching a blow at his headwith his (word of (hirpnefs, and mifii ig fomewhat ofhis aim, cut off the Giarit’s noi, whole notfrils werewider than a pair of jack-boots ; the pain was ter-libie, and fo he put up his hand to feel for his nofe,and when could not find it, he raved and roaredout louder than claps tf thunder; and though heturned up his large eyes he could net fee from whencethe blow came'Which had done him that great difaf-ter; neverthelefs he took up his iron knotted club,and-began to lay about him like one ftark mad Nay,quoth jack. If thou be for that fport, then 1 will dif-pafch you quickly for fear of an accideatal blow fal¬ling put. Then as the Giant r6fe up from his block,Jack makes no more ado but >uns up his fword tothe hilt in the Giant’s fundament, whee he left itflicking for a while, and Hood himfelf a-laughingwith his hands a;kim-bow to lee the Giant, caper anddance the canaries with hi§ fword in his arfe, cryingout, He Ihould die, he fliould die, with the grippingof his guts. Thus did the Gi.int continue raving foran hour or mo e, and at length fell dead, whofedreadful fill had like to have erulhed poor Jtck,1iadhe not been nimble enough to have avoided the fame.( n )This being done. Jack cut off both the Giant’sheads, and ferit them to king Arthur by a waggo¬ner whom he had hired for that purpbfe, togetherH with an account of his profpercus fiiccd's in his un*I dertakings.j • . C H A P. XI.; How Jack ft arch id thsir cave, and delivered manyinen Cut of captivity.JACK having thus difpatched thefe two monCters,relolved witk hi.nfeff to enter the cave in fearchIf o: thefe Gaints treafure Ke paifed along throughii many turnings and windings, which Jed him at lengthto a room paved with a free (lone, at the upper endji of which, was a boiling caldion ) then on the rightf hind fteod a large table, whereat he fuppofed theI Giants ufed to dine ; then he came to an iron gate*where was-a window fecored with bars ofiron, throughwhich'hd looked, and there beheld a vaft many mi*ferahle captives', who feeing Jack at a ciiftancc, criedout with a loud voice, Alas! young mam art thoucame to be one among us in this milerable dtn ? Ay,quoth J ck, 1 hope 1 (hall not tarry long here : butpray tell me what is the meaning cf your captivity?Why,'faid one young man. I’ll eil yeti, we are per-foris that have been taken by the Giants that keepthis cave, and here a>e we kept till fuch time as theyhave occa(Ln for a particular feafl, and then the fat¬ted among us is (laughtered and prepared for theirdevouring jaws ; it is not long knee they took threeof us for the lame puapof^ ; nay, many times theyhave dined entirely on murdered men. iiay you lojquoth jack, well, I have given them both luch a din*tier, that it will be long enough eTe they will naveoccalion for any move. Tne inifsrable captives werearrayed',at' his words. You irray believe me,, qeotnI Jack for 1 have (lain them both with the p hut of(■ MJ )my ft"ord‘, and' as for tlicir i*Hon(lroBs.,I^ads,. r /en^xhem in « waggon to the court of Itjiig Arthur, asf.ot.hies of m, irparslclled victory And for amotvy of the truth of what he la id, he uulockcil theiron gate, fetting the mifnahle captives at liberty,who ail rejoiced like condemned inalefutfors at thefight of a reprive : then leading tlient altogetherto the afanfiid rports, he plavei raiitid the'table, and (et before them b v .' «}uarie’'s of beef, asalf« bread and wine, fi> that he flailed them veryplentifully. Supper he'ng ended they lirarched tbiGiants coffers, wlicrc he findiirg a vift ftore of goMand (liver, j-ich equally tlevidod it among!! them;they all retumta' their hearty thanks fir their trea*hire and mi aculous deliverance. That night theywent to thefr red, and in the morning they arole anddeparted; the captives to t elr relpeiftive towns andplacrs of abode, and Jick to the knight’s hOule,whom he had formerly delivered fiom the hands ofthe Giant.CHAP. XII.Vw) JhcV. cam: to th: knight's hw(ey aud his ttcb!&entertammi'# tharc, ■IT was about Tun-rtfing when Jack mounted hivhorfe to procvt'd on his journey, and by the help1of the directions he came to the knight’s houle foinqtime befbro noon, where he was received with alldemonftration of joy imaginable by the knight andhis lady, who in an hon urable relgeCt to Jack, pre¬pared a feall which laded for many days, invitingkll the gentry, in the adjacent parts, to whom theworthy knight was pleafed to relate his former dan¬ger, and the happy dehverance, by the undauntedcourage' of Jack the Giant killer : aiid by way ofgratitude, he pre'.ented him with a ring of gold,on which was engraven f1/ a curious art id, the( )ij piflure of tjie Giant dragging- a diftrcfFed knighti and his fair lady by the hair of their heads, with|| this motto:We were in great di'lrefs you fee,*' Under a Giam’s fieice'commandHut gain’d our lives and liberty,% \a!ian: jack’s viflurious hand.■ Now aFrionfi the va!i affembly there prefer)t-, werei five aged gentlemen, who weie fathers to k>n*e ofth .!e mberahle captives which Jack had lately fetIp at Ulierty, who underftandihg that he wras the per*il fen that pstfermfid thole great wendeis, they imi|l mediately paid their vftnerabie refpfedls. After which| their mirth incteafed, &ud the fmilling bowls wentjilj freely round to the proferous fuccefs of the vid j-iousI conqueror ; but in *he- tuidll of al* their mirth, aif, dark chud appeared, which daunted all the. heartsM ol this alTfinbiy.Thus it was, a meflenger brought the ditmal tid-1 ings of the approach of one I hunderdel, a huge| Giant with two heads, who having heard of the'|J death of his kinfmen, the above mentioned Giants,| was come from the northern pole in learch afterI J.ack, to> be revenged on him for their nioft mife-j! rable downfal. and was within a mile of the kight’s1 feat, (.he country people living before him from theirI Irouf s and habitations, like chaff before the wind-r W lien they had related this, Jack not a wbifc^ daunted, fa id, Let him come 1. am prepared with aI tool to pick his teeth; and you ladies and gentlc-men, walk bur forth into the garden, and you ihall!be the joyful Ipeclatois of this monftrous Giant’sdeath and delhutfmu. * To which they all, conleat,eve y one yilhuig him good fpi tmie’Tn that gfeat.and dangerous enterprise. *r 3o )CHAP. Xllf.flaiv f'ck ever threw the Giant in the ftttvt, - and cutoff both his heads. tTHE fitualioB of the ]ioJc, take as fol-iows: it was placed in the nudft of i fir all if*landj encoirtpaff d round with a vart mpat, thirtyfeet Jeep, aad twenty fee£ wide, over whjch lay adraw-bridge Wherefore jfcck employed two :fieh tocut it qn both fides, ahnoll to die middle, and thendrefltng himfelfin his coat of dai kpefs,' likewile putt¬ing on his flioes of fwiftnefs, he marches forth again(lthe Giatit with his fwtvd of fharpnels ready drawn ;yet when he came cir/s up to hup, the Giant couldnot fee Jack, by realbn of Infi icv'fih'e coat, wh'sh hehad on, yet neverthdc>'s he w.a* \eidlfcie. of fome ap¬proaching danger, whicij made ;:nu cry out in tj;cfefollowing words: -Fe, Fi, Fo, Fpm,I frnell the blood of an EnglilFman iBe'he living cr bd he dead,I’ll grind his bones to mix my bread.Says thou fo, quoth jack, then thou art a monftrousmiller indeed:1 but how iff fhould fere thee as 1 didthe two Giants, in my ibnfcience 1 Ihould (boil yourpraiflice ■ft»r the future. At which time the Giant(poke with a voice as loud as thunder, \\t thou thatvillain which deffroyed my two kinfmen? then wtll ltear thee with my teeth, luck thy blood ; You mudcatch me firlf, quoth Jack, and with that he threwoff his coat of darknefs that the Giant might fee himclearly, and then run from him as through- fear. TheGiant with foaming mouth and glaring eyes, follow¬ing after like a walking cable, making the founda¬tions of the ear..b, as it weie, to tremble at «\cr.yftep. Jack, led him a dance three or four times, rcui dthe moat that belonged to the ,knight’s Jv u e, that,the ladies and gcntlanen might take a fpil v-kv. of( fl )ail his might, b it could not overtake him by reafonof his fhoes of fw it’fnefs, whicli'carried him fafter thaathe Giant cou'd t. Slow. At length Jack, to finifhI the work, took over the bridge, the Gaint with fullij Ipeed purfuing alter him with his iron dub upon his!j fi.oulder ; but coming to the middle of the draw-1 bridge,“when with the weight of his body and thej mod dreadful fteps that he took, it broke down, and' he tumbled into the water, where he rolled and wal¬lowed like a whale ; Jack Handing at the fide of the|t moat laughed at the Giant, and laid. You told mei you would grind my bones t® powder, here you have■j water enough, pray where is your mill? The Giantfretted and frowned to hear him feoff at that rate,| and though he plunged Ivom place to place in theI moat, yet he could not get out to be reveng’d on his||i -adverfary. Jack at length took a cart rope and callI it over the Giant’s twohekds, with a flip knot, andW by the help of a team ofhorles, dragged him olit a-| gain, with which he was near Itrangled ; and beforerl he would let him loofe he cut off both his heads withd his fword of lharpnefs, in the view of all tne worthyaffembly of knights, ladies, add gentlemen, who gaves a joyful Ihout when they faw the Giant fairly dif-u patched. Then before he would either eat or drinkI he leiil thele heads alfo, after the others to the courta of king Arthur ; which being done, then; Jack withli the knights and ladies, returned to their mirth and#j padjme which lafted many days.Hm J:ck earns to the houfs of an otd Htntmit, and■what dijeourje puffed bk tween therq,.\ FTER foms time fpent in triumphant mirth and.1 xX pallime, Jack grew weary of riotous livingsll wherefore taking leave of the noble knights and al~CHAP. XIV.C 22 )mes be fet forward in tbe 'fearch of mere advertiares.Through many grovas and woods h - paiTed, meetjngwith nothing remarkable, till at the length coming tothe f*ot of a high mountain late at night, he knock¬ed at the door of a lonlome feoule, at which time anancient man, with a head as Mute as fnow arofeand let him in. Father, fa d Jack, have you anyentertainment for a benighted traveller that has lollhis way? Yes, laid the «ld man, if you will acceptof fuch recommendation as my cottage will afford,thou fhalt be right welcome. Jack returned him manythanks for bis great civility; wherefore down theyTat together, and tire old man began to d tcoure himas follows: Son, faid he, l am leufibie thou art tnegreat coi.qneror ef Giants atul it is in, thy power tofree this place of the •country from an intolerableburden which we groan under; for behold, my lott^•on the top df this high mountain'there is an enchant¬ed cattle, kept by a huge m-mttrous Giant, namedGalgantus, who, by the help of an old c njuror Be¬trays many knights and ladies into his ttrong cattle,where by magic art they are transformed into fun dryiliapes and forms,; bjir above all, 1 lament the fadmisfortuns* of a duke’s daughter, whom they fetchedfrom her father’s .garden by art, carrying her through'*he air in a mot-nintg chariot, drawn as it were by4wo fiery dragons, and b;m£ fecurcd within the waits«f the cattle, flre wa> immedi «ely tiamfumed into(the j»eil Ihapc of a white bind; manv worthy knighrshare attempted deliverance, jyct rvoue ot ihem couldaccomplilh this great wo;k by realm of two dreadfulGriffins, who are fited by mag»c art at tee entranceo^the cattle gate, which dettroys a ay as foon^; theyfce them ; but you, my fon, being fiuriifhed with aninvifible coat, may pals by them undii'c wered , whe etipon the brazen gates of the ca' le y u vvdl find n-graven in large characters, -by what <the enchainmentmay be broken.C 2? >This old ma-u having ended bk difcoiirfe, jack.gavei him his hand, with a faithful protnite, that' in theI morning he. would venture his life to break the en-| chantment and free the lady, together with' the retil| that \veje ndieiable partners in her calamity.J/aiu fcei g'j 'iAtfi- We r.Jhantcd caflle, Irike fhs en~chuntinerit, 'kitted The Ciaat, put the conjurer 1) jl'n’ht,fit free the kftlgHs ard Litiefi, tike & fie ‘tbs uriks'tI daughter, vlftohi he'djterkvards in if ril'd.AVING rctreflldd therwfeIves with a final 1 morf.1Kef ’mdtt, fhtsy Uhl them <iow« lo retl, in thei morning '|:rck arofe and [Ait on his mvifihie coat., an4a; cap of incwledge; atul (hoes of Ivtiftnek, and fo p>re-i ! pares hin.felf for the dangerous eDterpriee.Now when he h*d afcended to the top of the fnm?n-jjlHtinn, he foon di(c»rvtr«l <he two Griffins ; fo he pat-n!fed on between them without fear,-fur they could ivoti ifee him *by reafan of his invifible ’coat. Now whent he was got beyond them, he c.*ft his eyes laromvd himjliwhe^e he found upon the gates a golden t-rurnpet,ishung in a chain of fine •frlver, <undcr which tbefe l+nefsiiiwere engraven,j ’Wh^fvevirha'irflih t-^mpet^bi'tfw.Shall fodn t'he Glaht Dvtrthro'tv;And break the Hjlifck enchtfitmetit fti*eight,So afl fhall he in a happv lia'tte.[ jack had no Iboner read this infcription hut hehl**lithe trumpet, at wh'ch time the valt foundation of theiealtle trembled, and the Giant together with the con¬juror, were in horrid confufion, biting their thumirs,and tearing their hair, knowing their wicked reignwas at an e'nd. At whioh tihie jack Handing at theGiant’s e'h w. as he was Hooping to take up his club,he at one blow, with his fword of iharpntls, cut fThis head. The conjuror feeing this, immediatelyCHAP. XV..( 24 )mounted into tlie ai^ a'’d was cairied away in a .whirl wind. Thus was the whole enchantment.broke, ;aitll every kn:ght and lady who had been for a longtime transformed into birds, aud bealls, returned to •their proper lhapes again ; and as for the cafllejthough it leemed at firli to be of a rail ftrength andbignels, it vaniflted away like a cloud of fmoke;whei-cupon an uiiiverfal joy appeared among the re-leafed knights and ladies. This being done, the headof Galgantus was likewif;, according to his accultom-ed manner, conveyed to the court et king Arthur, asa prefent made to his Majeliy. 1 he very next day, iafter having refrelhed the knights and ladits at the ;old man’s Habitation, who lived at the foot. »f the')mountain, he fet foreward for the court of king jArthur, with thole knights and ladies he had fo ho..nourably delivered.When coming to his majefty, and having related!all the paflages ot his fierce encounteis, and his famerang through the whole court, as a reward of his;good fervice,' tjie king prevailed with the aforefaid,tlu.ke to beftow his daughter in marriage on honeit ljack, pro'tediaf there was no inan lo worthy oPher as he, to all which the duke very honourably eon-|fented. ^S^married they were, and not only the court-but likewifa the kingdom was filled with joy and .triumph at the wedding ; after which the king as areward for his good lerviers done to the nation, be-|flowed upon him a noble habitation, with a veryjplentiful ellate belonging thereunto, wheie he ai d fhis lad-; lived the remainder of their days in great|joy and happ^efs.FINIS.