THE fcI.ONG- F A €£2K~*ORTHE ROBBERS DISCOVERED:Scottish Story*BYJAMES HOGG, THE ETTRICK SHEPHERD.©KZ'.lWdif tf, fbi »:• • • ■; • i‘14:-io-j ' ! 'it '-’Hf im« ■ ..4nv7<! liniili'- env/ « >.!/'■ut hui ./i iij'l ciil no sq ^THEI^ONG FAC»o®IOIoe«n the year 1723, Colonel Ridley returnedi rom India, with what, in those days, was[^counted an immense fortune, and retiredo a country seat on the banks of North”yne in Northumberland. The house wasbuilt and furnished with every thing ele-ant and costly; and amongst others, a'.lervice of plate supposed to be worth £1000.He went to London annually with his family,luring a few of the winter months, and atHiese times there were but few left at hisCountry house. At the time we treat of,ithere were only three domestics remained'there; a maid servant, whose name was Alice,ethe house, and there were besides, an oldand a boy, the one threshed the corn,nd the other took care of some cattle, forhe two ploughmen were boarded in housesf their own.One afternoon as Alice was sitting spin-adng some yarn for a pair of stockings toaierself, a pedlar entered the hall with aj omical pack on his back. Alice had seen4as long a pack, and as broad a pack ; buta pack equally long, broad, and thick, shedeclared she never saw. It was about themiddle of winter, when the days were short,and the nights cold, long, and wearisomeThe pedlar was ahandsome, well dressed man,|and very likely to be a very agreeable com-,panion for such a maid as Alice, on such ainight as that; yet Alice declared, that fromjlthe very first she did not like him greatly,and though he introduced himself with a litqtie ribaldry, and a great deal of flattery in¬terlarded, yet when he came to ask a night’slodging, he met with a peremptory refusal:he jested on the subject, said he believed shewas in the right, for that it would scarcelybe safe to trust him under the same roof withsuch a sweet and beautiful creature—Alicewas an old maid, and any thing but beauti¬ful—He then took her on his knee, caressedand kissed her, hut all would not do. u No,she would not consent to his staying there."u But are you really going to put me awayito night?” u Yes.” u Indeed, my dear'girl, you must not be so unreasonable; lam come straight from Newcastle, where Ihave been purchasing a fresh stock of goods,which are so heavy, that I cannot travelfar with them, and as the people around areall of the poorer sort, I will rather makeyou a present of the finest shawl in my pack I5- before I go further.” At the mentioninglof the shawl, the picture of deliberation waspourtrayed in lively colours on Alice’s facefor a little; but her prudence overcame.|u No, she was but a servant, and had ordersto harbour no person about the house butsuch as came on business, nor these either(unless she was well acquainted with them.,:£ What the worse can you, or your master,nr any one else be, of suffering me to tarry(until the morning?” UI entreat you donot insist, for here you cannot be.” u Butilndecd, I am not able to carry my goodi!further to-night.” u Then you must leaveihem or get a horse to carry them away.”u Of all the sweet inflexible beings thatever were made, you certainly are the chief.«But I cannot blame you, your resolution isjust and right. Well, well, since no better(may be, I must leave them, and go search(for lodgings myself somewhere else, for,fatigued as I am, it is as much as my lifeis worth to endeavour carrying them further.”{Alice was rather taken at her word: she{wanted nothing to do with his goods: the(man was displeased at her, and might{accuse her of stealing some of them; butit was an alternative she had proposed, and1 against which she could start no plausibleobjection; so she consented, though withmuch reluctance.—u But the pack will be(}better out of your way/’ said he, “ anc fsafer, if you will be so kind as lock it bj;in some room or closet.” She then led bininto a low parlour, where he placed it care if ully on two chairs, and went away, wishing i,Alice a good night.When old Alice and the pack were lefitogether in the large house by themselves* ?she felt a kind of undefined terror come oven >her mind about it. “ What can be in it’S’said she to herself, “that makes it so heavy ?{•surely when the man carried it this lengthhe might have carried it farther too.—It ia confoundedly queer pack; I’ll go an*look at it once again, and see what I thinlis in it; and suppose I should handle it alround, I may then perhaps have a goo*guess what is in it”Alice went cautiously and fearfully intithe parlour and opened a wall-press—shiwanted nothing in the press, indeed shinever looked into it, for her eyes were fixec ion the pack, and the longer she looked a|it she liked it the worse; and as to handling!it, she would not have touched it for all tha |it contained. She came again into thi!kitchen and conversed with herself. Sh«!thought of the man’cumstance connected with it: they were allmysterious, and she was convinced in he»it—of its monstrous7nvn mind, that there was something un-tanny if not unearthly in the pack.! What surmises will not fear give rise ton the mind of a woman ! She lighted anoulded candle, and went again into thetarlour, closed the window shutters, andlarred them ; but before she came out, shelet herself upright, held in her breath, and«ook another steady and scrutinizing lookthe pack. God of mercy! She saw itnoving, as visibly as she ever saw anyI hing in her life. Every hair on her head;ttood upright. Every inch pf flesh on heroody crept like a nest of pismires. Shemasted into the kitchen as fast as she coidd,for her knees bent under the terror that hadoverwhelmed the heart of poor Alice. Shemuffed out the candle, lighted it again, andmot being able to find a candlestic, thoughh dozen stood on the shelf in the fore kitchen,f;he set it in a water-jug, and ran out to thebarn for old Richard. u Oh, for mercy,teichard, make haste, and come into thedjiouse. Come away, Richard.” il Why,what is the matter Alice ? what is wrong ?”Oh, Richard ! a pedlar came into the hall• bn treating for lodging. Well, I wouldnot let him stay on any account, and behold,lie is gone oft' and left his pack.” “ Andwhat is the great matter in that ?” saidRichard. ££ I will wager a penny he will8look after it, before it shall look after Iuiim(< But, oh Richard, I tremble to tell youWo are all gone for it is a living pack.’<£ A living pack !” said Richard, staring aAlice, and letting his chops fall down;Richard had just lifted his flail over his hear,to begin threshing a sheaf; but when h»heard of a living pack, he dropped one enfof the hand-staff to the flour, and leaningon the other, took such a look at Alice,He knew long before that Alice was beau¬tiful ; he knew that ten years before, bithe never took such a look at her in his life -“ A living pack !” said Richard. “ Wh) *the woman is mad without all doubt.” “ Ob,Richard ! come away. Heaven knows wha ;is in it! but I saw it moving so plainly asI see you at present. Make haste, ant 1come away Richard.” Richard did not slantto expostulate any longer, nor even to puton his coat, but followed Alice into thehouse, assuring her by the way, that it v aenothing but a whim, and of a piece, withmany of her phantasies. “ But,” added1he, <{of all the foolish ideas that ever pos¬sessed your brain, this is the most unfeasible,unnatural, and impossible. How can apack, made up of napkins, and muslins,and corduroy breeches perhaps, ever becomealive? It is even worse than to suppose ahorse’s hair will turn an eel.” • b'o saying,9Ibje lifted the candle out of the jug, andturning about, never stopped till he had laidIns hand on the pack. He felt the dealsthat surrounded its edges to prevent thegoods being rumpled and spoiled by carry-: mg, the cords that hound it, and the canvassn which it was wrapped. u The pack wasveil enough, he found nought about it that)ther packs wanted. It was just like otherjacks made up of the same stuff. He sawnought that ailed it. And a good largeback it was. It would coast the honest man'£200, if not more. It would cost him £300pr £350 if the goods were fine. But hewould make it all up again by cheatingTools like Alice, with his gewgaws.” Alicetestified some little disappointment at seeingjRichard unconvinced, even by ocular proof.kShe wished she had never seen him or itphowsomever; for she was convinced there.was something mysterious about it; that.they were stolen goods or something that.way; and she was terrified to stay in theijhouse with it. But Richard * assured her(the pack was a right enough pack.During this conversation, in comesSEdward. He was a lad about sixteen yearsof age, son to a coal-driver on the border•—was possessed of a good deal of humourSand ingenuity, hut somewhat roguisli,'{forward, and commonly very ragged UV 'his10apparel. He was about this time whollyintent on shooting the crows and birds olvarious kinds, that alighted in whole flockswhere he foddered the cattle. He ha4bought a huge old military gun, which hsdenominated Copenhagen, and was eontinurally thundering away at them. He seldorrkilled any, it ever; but he once or twioknocked off a few feathers, and after inuc]|narrow inspection, discovered some dropsof blood on the snow. He was at this verymoment come in a great haste for Copen¬hagen, having seen a glorious chance olsparrows, and a robin-red-breast amongthem, feeding on the site of a corn rick, bullhearing them talk of something mysterious,and a living pack, he pricked up his earsjand was all attention.—u Faith Alice,”said he, u if you will let me, I’ll shoot it."11 Hold your peace, you fool,” said Richard.Edward took the candle from Richard, whestill held it in his hand, and, gliding downthe passage, edged up the parlour door, andwatched the pack attentively for about twqminutes. He then came bade with a springand with looks very different from thosewhich regulated his features as he wentdown. As sure as*he had death to meetwith he saw it stirring. u Hold your peace,you fool,” said Richard, Edward sworeagain that he saw it stirring; but whethernhe really thought so, or only said so, ishard to determine. u Faith, Alice,” saidhe again, u if you will let me, I’ll shoot it.”ii I tell you to hold your peace, you fool,” saidRichard, “ No,” said Edward, “in the mul¬titude of counsellors there is safety; and I willmaintain this to be our safest plan. Ourmaster’s house is consigned to our care, and: the wealth that it contains may tempt somepeople to use stratagems. Now, if we openi up the man’s pack, he may pursue us for dam-i ages to any amount, but if I shoot it, whati amends can he get of me ? If there is anyI thing that should not be there, Lord, how I■ will pepper it! And if it is lawful goods, hecan only make me pay for the few that areI damaged, which I will get at valuation; so, ifi none of you will acquiesce, I will take all theblame upon myself, and ware a shot uponit.” Richard said whatever was the conse¬quence he would be blameless. A halfdelirious smile rather distorted than beauti¬fied Alice’s pretty face, but Edward took offor an assent to what he had been advanc¬ing, so, snatching up Copenhagen in onehand, and the candle in the other, he hasteddown the passage, and without hesitatingone moment, fired at the pack. GraciousHeaven ! The blood gushed out upon thefloor like a torrent, and a hideous roar,followed by the groans of death, issued12From the pack. Edward dropped Copen¬hagen upon the ground, and ran into the ;kitchen like one distracted. The kitchenwas darkish, for he had left the candle inthe parlour; so taking to the door withoutbeing able to utter a word, he ran to thehills like a wild roc, looking over eachshoulder ns fast as he could turn his headfrom the one side to theother.—Alice followedas last as she could; but lost half the wayof Edward. She was all the way sighingand crying most pitifully. Old Richard istood for a short space rather in a state of :petrefaction, but, at length, after some hasty jejaculations, he went into the parlourThe whole floor flowed with blood; the ipack had thrown itself on the ground, butthe groans and cries were ceased, and only ia kind of guttural noise was heard from it.Knowing then that something must be done,he ran after his companions, and called onthem to come back. Though Edward had fescaped a good way, and was still perse- ivering on, yet, as he never took long timeto consider of the utility of any thing, butacted from immediate impulse, he turnedand came as fast back as he had goneaway. Alice also came homeward, but moreslowly, and crying even more bitterly than,before. Edward overtook her, and was hold¬ing on his course; but, as he passed, she13iiltumerl away her fare, and called him a■ inmrderer. At the sound of this epithet,• iEdward made a dead pause, and looked atAlice with a face much longer than it usedito be. He drew in his breath twice, as ifingoing to speak, but he only swallowed ai [great mouthful of air, and held his peace.They were soon all three in the parlour,land in no little terror and agitation of mind,Ifjunloosed the pack, the principal commodity||of which was a stout young- man, whomif Edward had shot through the heart, and!thus bereaved of' existence in a few minutes.To paint the feelings, or even the appearanceof young Edward, during this scene is im-:ipossible; he acted little, spoke less, and1 appeared in a hopeless stupor; the most ofi his employment consisted in gulping downi mouthfuls of breath, wiping Ins eyes', andI staring at his associates.It is most generally believed, that AvhenEdward fired at the pack, he had not themost distant idea of shootincf a man; butseeing Alice so jealous of it, he thought theColonel would approve of his intrepidity,and protect him from being wronged by theI pedlar; and besides, he had never got achance of a shot at such a large thing inhis life, and was curious to see how manyfolds of the pedlar’s fine haberdashery ware,Copenhagen would drive the drops through.so that when the stream of blood burst irom •the pack, accompanied with the dying groans «of a human being, Edward was certainlytaken by surprise, and quite confounded;he indeed asserted, as long as he lived, that 3he saw something stirring in the pack, but 1his eagerness to shoot, and his terror on >seeing what he had done, which was no more fthan what he might have expected, had he 5been certain he saw the pack moving, makes kthis asseveration very doubtful. They fimade all possible speed in extricating the icorse, intending to call medical assistance, •>but it was too late; the vital spark was gone ftforever. u Alas!” said old Richard, heaving ?a deep sigh, “poor man, ’tis all over with thim ! I wish he had lived a little longer to ‘have repented of this, for he has surely died l'in a bad cause. Poor man ! he was some-, ibody’s son, and no doubt dear to them, and 1nobody can tell how small a crime this hath, 11by a regular gradation, become the fruits tof.” Richard came twice across his eyes lwith the sleeve of his shirt, for he still 'wanted the coat; a thought of a tendernature shot through his heart. “ Alas, il i;his parents are alive, how will their hearts jj-bear this, poor creatures !” said Richard, jiwreeping outright, “ poor creatures ! God Ipity them!”The wray that he was packed up was -15artful and curious. His knees were broughti iup towards his breast, and his feet and legsi istuifed in a wooden box; another woodenbox, a size larger, and wanting the bottom,made up the vacancy betwixt his face andknees, and there being only one fold ofcanvass around this, lie breathed with the^greatest freedom; but it had undoubtedlybeen the heaving of his breast which had, caused the movement noticed by the servants.,His right arm was within the box, and to;his hand was tied a cutlass, with which he.could rip himself from his confinement atlonce. There were also four loaded pistols-secreted with him, and a silver wind-call.(!'On coming to the pistols and cutlass,1<£ Villain,” said old Richard, u see what hedias here. But I should not call him?villain,” said he again, softening his tone,<£ for he is now gone to answer at that barwhere no false witness, nor loquacious orator,:-can bias the justice of the sentence pro¬nounced on him. He is now in the trueIfworld, and I am in the false one. We can(judge only from appearances, but thanks toour kind Maker and Preserver, that he wasjijdiscovered, else it is probable that none of|us should have again seen the light of day.”j.These moral reflections from the mouth ofold Richard, by degrees raised the spirits ofj Edward: he was bewildered in uncertainty,if>and had undoubtedly given himself up forlost: but he now began to discover that hehad done a meritorious and manful action,and for the first time, since he had fired thefatal shot, ventured to speak, <£ Faith it waslucky that I shot then,” said Edward; butneither of his companions answered eithergood'or had. Alice, though rather growndesperate, behaved and assisted at this hloody faffair, better than might have been expect¬ed. Edward surveyed the pistols all round,twro of which were of curious workmanship.<£ But what do you think he was going to ,do with all these?” said Edward. ££ I thinkyou need not ask that,” answered Richard.<£ Faith it was a mercy that I shot after,all,” said Edward, ££for if we had loosedhim out, we would have been all dead in aminute. I have given him a devil of abroadside, though. But look ye, Richard,]Providence has directed me to the right spot,for I might as readily have lodged the con-]tents of Copenhagen in one of these emptyboxes.” ££ It has been a deep laid scheme,”] ’said Richard, ££to murder us, and rob ourmaster’s house; there must certainly bemore concerned in it than these two.”Ideas beget ideas, often quite different,and then otheis again in unspeakable grada¬tion, which run through and shift in the mindwith as much velocity as the streamersaround the pole in a frosty night OnRichard’s mentioning more concerned, Ed~Ward instantaneously thought of a gang ofthieves by night.—How he would break theeg of one—shoot another through the head—and scatter them like chaff before the,vind. He would rather shoot one robber on; lis feet or on horseback, than ten lying tiedip in packs; and then what a glorious preyjj)f pistols he would get from the dead rascalsi—how he would prime and load and fireaway with perfect safety from within !—howLAlice would scream, and Richard wouldtray, and all would go on with the noiseand rapidity of a windmill, and he wouldacquire everlasting fame. So high was the4/oung and ardent mind of Edward wroughtijip by this train of ideas, that he was stridinglip and down the floor, while his eyes gleamedis with a tint of madness. “ Oh ! if I hadi tut plenty of guns, and nothing ado buto shoot, how I would pepper the dogs!”(aid he with great vehemence; to the nomall astonishment of his two associates,vho thought him gone mad. “‘What canhe fool mean?” said old Richard, u Whattan he ail at the dogs?” “ Ob, it is the'obbers that I mean,” said Edward. “Whatrobbers, you young fool?” said Richard.”‘Why, do not you think that the pedlar■vill come back at the dead of the night, to18the assistance of his friend, and bring plentyof help with him too,” said Edward. “ Thereis not a doubt of it,” said old Richard.“There is not a doubt of it,” said Alice,and both stood up stiff with fear and aston¬ishment. “Oh! merciful Heaven! what isto become of us,” said Alice again, “ Whatare we to do ?” “ Let us trust in the Lord,”Said old Richard. “I intend, in the firstplace, to trust in old Copenhagen,” saidEdward, putting down the frizzel, andmaking it spring up again with a long snapfive or six times, “But, good Lord! whatare we thinking about? I’ll run and gatherin all the guns in the country.” The impulseof the moment was Edward’s monitor. Offhe ran like fire, and warnted a few of theColonel’s retainers, who he knew kept gunsabout them; these again warned others,and at eight o’clock, they had twenty-five ;men in the house, and sixteen loaded pieces,including Copenhagen, and the four pistolsfound on the deceased. These were distri¬buted amongst the front windows in theupper stories, and the rest armed with pitch-*forks, old swords, and cudgels, kept watch 1below. Edward had taken care to placehimself with a comrade, at a window im-mediately facing the approach to the house,and now, backed as he was by such a strongparty, grew quite impatient for another19chance with his redoubted Copenhagen. Ail,i however, remained quiet until an hour pastimidnight, when it entered into his teemingibrain to blow the thief s silver wind-call; so,j | without warning any of the rest, he setshis head out at the window, and blew untilail the hills and woods around yelled their(echoes. This alarmed the guards, as notknowing the meaning of it; but how were(they astonished at hearing it answered bylanother at no great distance. The state oftanxiety into which this sudden and unforeseen[circumstance threw our armed peasants, ismore easily conceived than described. TheTate of their master’s great wealth, and eventheir- own fates, was soon to be decided, andmone but He who surveys and over-rulesfuturity could tell what was to be the issue.liEvery breast heaved quicker, every breathwas cut short, every gun was cocked andpointed toward the court-gate, every orb ofvision was strained to discover the approach-ang foe, by the dim light of the starryCanopy, and every ear expanded to catch thedistant sounds as they floated on the slow■frosty breeze.The suspence was not of long continuance.In less than five minutes the trampling of'horses was heard, which increased as theyapproached to the noise of thunder, and ini|iue course, a body of men on horseback,0according to the account given by theColonel’s people, exceeding their own num¬ber, came up at a brisk trot, and began toenter the court gate. Edward, unable to re¬strain himself any longer, tired Copenhagen,in their faces : one of the foremost dropped, :and his horse made a spring towards the:hall door. 'I his discharge was rather premature, as the wall still shielded a part othe gang from the windows. Jt was, >>however, the watchword to all the rest, and.«in the course of two seconds, the whole six- 1teen guns were discharged at them. Beforethe smoke dispersed they were all fled, nodoubt greatly amazed at the reception which 1they met with. Edward and his comradesran down stairs to see how matters stood,.Tfor it was their opinion that they had shot ithem every one, and that their horses had»taken flight at the noise, and galloped off1without them ; but the club below warmly1protested against their opening the door till1day, so they were obliged to betake them- *selves again to their birth up stairs.Though our peasants had gathered up islittle courage and confidence in themselves, -their situation was curious, and to them adreadful one ; they saw and heard a part oftheir fellow creatures moaning and expiringin agonies in the open air, which wasjlintensely cold, yet durst not go to administer Irlhe least relief, for fear of a surprise. Ani nour or two after this great brush, Edwardand his messmate descended again, and:icgged hard for leave to go and reconnoitrenr a few minutes, which after some disputeswas granted. They found only four menalien, who appeared to be all quite dead.Jne of them was lying within the porch.4 Faith,” said Edward, 44 here’s the chaphat I shot.” The other three were withoutit a considerable distance from each other,i They durst not follow their track farther,b the road entered betwixt groves of trees,out retreated into their posts without touchingtiny thing.About an hour before day, some of themwere alarmed at hearing the sound of horsesfeet a second time, which, however, was onlyIndistinct and heard at considerable intervals,und nothing of them ever appeared. Noti ong after this, Edward and his friend were;dmost frightened out of their wits, at seeing,Us they thought, the dead man within theTyite, endeavouring to get up and escape.They had seen him dead, lying surround-id by a deluge of congealed blood, andnothing but the ideas of ghosts and hobgob¬lins entering their brains, they were so[indiscreet as never to think of firing, butran and told the tale of horror to some oftheir neighbours. The sky was by thistime gTovvn so dark, that nothing could be ,seen with precision, and that they all re- .mained in anxious incertitude, until theopening day discovered to them, by degrees,that the corpses were removed, and nothing ®left but large sheets of frozen blood, andthe morning’s alarms by the ghost and thenoise of horses, had been occasioned by some jof the friends of the men that had fallen, .conveying them away for fear of a dis- ,covery.Next morning the news flew like fire,and the three servants were much incommoded !by crowds of idle and officious people that "gathered about the house, some inquiring 'after the smallest particulars, some begging ilto see the body that lay in the parlour, andothers pleased themselves with poring over '•the sheets of crimson ice, and tracing thedrops of blood on the road down the wood.The Colonel had no country factor, nor any ‘particular friend in the neighbourhood, sothe affair was not pursued with that speed ^which was requisite to the discovery of the <accomplices, which if it had, would have j1been productive of some very unpleasant 1circumstances, by involving sundry respect- E-able families, as it afterwards appeared but 1too evidently. Dr. Herbert, the physician,who attended the family occasionally, wrote ■to the Colonel, by post, concerning the affair,23hut though he lost no time, it was the fifthilay before he arrived. Then indeed adver-i dsements were issued, and posted up in all)iiblic places, oiFering rewards for a discov¬ery of any person killed or wounded of late,ml the dead and sick within twenty milesiwere inspected by medical men, and a mostextensive search made, but to no purpose.It was too late: all was secured. SomeIndeed were missing, but plausible pretencesfeeing made for their absence, nothing couldfee done. But certain it is, sundry of thesejijrere never seen any more in the country,i(though many of the neighbourhood declaredirney were such people as nobody could: suspect.| The body of the unfortunate man, whovas shot in the pack, lay open for inspec-i ,ion a fortnight, but none wrould ever ac-i cnowledge so much as having seen him.1 The Colonel then caused him to be buried at> Bellingham, but it was confidently reported,hat his grave was opened and his corse:aken away. In short, not one engagedn this base and bold attempt was ever dis-xivered. A constant watch was kept by■night lor some time. The Colonel reward'**!idle defenders of his house liberally. Old■Richard remained in the family during the■rest of his life and had a good salary for>nly saying prayers amongst the servant*24every night. Alice was married to a tobac-|conist at Hexam. Edward was made thu,Coloners gamekeeper, and had a present of,a fine gold-mounted gun given him. Hismaster afterwards procured him a commisjsion iu a regiment of foot, w here he sulfere jmany misfortunes and disappointments. H ewas shot through the shoulder at the battleof Fontenoy, hut recovered, and retiringon half-pay, took a small farm on the Scottish,side. His character was that of a bravelbut rash officer; kind, generous, and open-hearted in all situations. I have often stooilat his knee and listened with wonder andamasement to his stories of battles and seiges,,but none of them ever pleased me betterthan that of the Long Pack.Alas! his fate is fast approaching to usall! he hath, many years ago, submitted t|the conqueror of all mankind. His bra«heart is now a clod of the valley, and hi:gray hairs recline in peace on that pillotvfrom which his head shall be raised onlvwhen time shall be no more.