THEWitty aud EntertainingEXPLOITSoyGeorge Buchanan,ICOMMONLY CALLEDThe King’s Fool.In Two Parts.Stirling: Printed by al RacdaU.THEWITTY EXPLOITSOFMr ceoPvGe Buchanan.M:PART 1.R GEORGE BUCHANAN was a Scot*:man born, and tho’ of moan parentage, madegreat progress in learting: as for his under*standing ami ready wit, he wtcei’ed ali men thenalive in the age, that ever proposed questions tohim. He was servant or teacher to King Jamesthe Sixth, and one of his privy councillors;but publicly acted as his fool.1. It happened 6ne day, that a young airy no¬bleman went into the King’s garden to pull aflower for a young lady he fancied, George fol¬lowed at z distance j so, when the young mantcurd a flower he faiKied, he would not pull ithimself, but to find it again, without furtherSearch, he covered it with his hat, and went jaway for his sweetheart. No sooner was he gonebut up goes George, lifts the hat, and pulls the Iflower ; then eases himself on the spot, covers itW;;h the hat again, ar d away he goes. Soon Iter the young gentleman returned, leading hissweetheart to pull the flower bolow the hat; but Jas scon as he lifted the hat, and saw what was jbelow it, he looked like a fool; and the lady, fly-Iing in a passion, sets off, and would never coun¬tenance him any more. The young gentlemantag sadly vexed at this affront given to him byGeorge, sent him a challenge to fight him , ap-ointing day and place where they were to meet,leing to fight on horfe back, George gets an oldistiff horse, and, for harnessing, covers him aboutfwith blown bladders, with small stones in each,without either sword or spear ; and away to theifield he (roe&. where the duel was appointed. So*j-SJwhen George saw his enemy coming against* mjhim* all in gllitering armour, armed with fwordij’t t land spear, he made up to him with all the fpeed^fitofjhis horse could carry him ; when the toall fiones■ J [in the bladders made such a rattling noise, that!;rs;|the gentleman’s fine gelding would not stand thei battle but ran away, and threw h's master to? withe ground $ which caused ail the spectators»il* t laugh, and say, the gentleman was more foolthan George. Tha gentleman being still moreenraged at this lecond affioot, he would fightwith George on foot, but his friends perfuadsdhim, that it would be no honour for him tofight and kill the king's foot; and far let's tobe killed by the fool. So they were advifedboth to agree. But the gentleman would tryanother exploit with George, for to have it faidhe was still the cleverest man, viz. To hold hima jumpmg-bGut publicly, the next day thereafter.With aU my heart, says George, and we will endin and about where we began, they not knowinghis meaning in thist The place and hour beingset, where they were to meet next morning,George, in the nigh* time, a. deep, piPj10■ato be made, aftdtre earth of it earrhcl iway ;then filled i‘. up with duttg from a privy, and co¬vered it over with a green turf, that it mightno: be known by .he o her ground. So accord-lug to p cmile, they both met in the morninga-gainlt the appointed .tine. Now, George bcinotie old, ft mao, a cl by them counted the grCAtetkf. ci, the young fp.rk permitted him to jumpfirft, which he, according to order did; andjumped within a foot of the pl.ee wnere theground was talfified The young man feeing this,made hu performance With great tits, and allhis might, fc that he jumped a fowt over George,but to his t x'.ers among chan dung ! whereatthe whole multitude of fpectatois cri«d out withhuzzas and laughter. Now fay; George, I toldyou we would tnc in and about where vre began,and that is in ciecn dirt.2. On a time after this, the King and hisCoir w?s going into the country, and theywould have Cieorge to ride before them, in thefoci s dreis ; whereunto he feemed unwilling, tbut it wuS the King’s pleafure So Getrge w«smounted on an old horfe, with a pair of oldriven boots^ the heel; hanging down, and a pal¬mer coat, patched over with pictures of diverskinds Georgejrode before ih m In this pofturc, .which caufed great laughter and diversion, until S’ih y came to an inn, where they alighted to dine,and in the time they wese at dmn.r, George ?|went into the liable, -find v-i h a kuife cut^ allthen horfei-chafts, not fore, but 1c as they mighti jleed. Now, as foon as diftaer was orer, and: [hey mounted on their horfes again, George rid¬ing before them, as u(ual, in his palmer coatlind old boots they began to make their game>f him ; then G;orge turning about fuddenly,|nd clapping his hands with a loud laughter,•Jhe king asked him what made him laugh fo?^augh, (ays George, how can I but laugh, when*orles cannot hold their peace? O my fovereign,. jays he, don t you fee how your horfes have renti heir chafts laughing at my old boote I Then,■ j ivery man 1 oking at his horfe’s mouth, theyi'ere all in a rage againft George. The King■ i sauied Georg- to difmouct directly, and charg-d him never to let him fee his face on Englifti;round. Now Georg* knowing that nothingiould reconcile the king at this time, he cameiWny to Scotland, and caufeJ make him a pair“ jit great boots, and put a quantity ot ^cottilhPtrth In each of them, and away he goe» for%ondon, to lee the king o. ce more. He hearingae king and his court was to pals through theipuntry, George places himfcif in an old win-’iow, and fets up his bare arle to the king andi s court as they puffed. The king being greatlyiamezjd to lee luch an unufual honour done tom, was curious to know the performer: So helied unto him, desiring him to come down, 1cding it to be George, Sir, lavs the King, didt I charge you never to lot me fee your faceain ? True, my Sovereign fays George, forich caufe 1 let you fee my arfe. But, lays the6K;ng, you wa* never to come on English groundsga'n. Neither l did says George, pulling off hisboots beiore the King, behold, my Sovereign,it is all '’cots earth I stand upon. The King andhis court being greatly diverted with this merry,joke George was again admitted into the King,#fr.VCUt'.3. 4fter this there arefe a debate betwixt theKin; i.nd the Queen about votes in the Pariia-ftient; as the King had two votes, the QueenWorld have one ai d would needs be a Parlia-jnenter, fcr no peace without preferment Thismatter was committed to George by the King :So it was agreed aircng the Parliairenters thatthe Queen ihculd be cc'mitted into "Parliamentfora day Accordingly she came, and was re-ceievtd with all the honour and crngratulations:thattlfere due and becoming her high stationstut, before any matter of consequence was;brought to the board, George seated kimfelfhare by the Queen's seat: Ail being silent, herofe up very quickiy, dfted one of his legs undlet a lend fart, which set the whole houfe a-laughirg; whereat the Queen was greatly of¬fended, and said, Go, take the rogue and hanghim. To which George answered a fine Par-liamenter indeed, to hang a man for a sinlefs ‘n*flrroitr, and that’s a fart. The Queen, beingenraged at the affront put cn her first appearancein parliament, went off in a pafsion, and neveswould ccununsEce them mere. But yet, to berevenged on George, she would never j^ve theii iting r«t, till he delivered George into her hand*iat he might be punitlied at her pleafure, which,ie King accordingly commanded to be done,mowing that eorge would retrue himself bymine intrigue or other. ' No sooner was he de¬livered into her hands, but Ihe and her maids ofHonour pronounced his doom, which was asallows : As he bad affronted th-; Queen amongi) great an equipage who ought to be honouredi cheif above all women in the nation, that hemould be ftonedto death by the hands of wo-iijien, Now, the time being come that he was toie, according to their appointment, he was ta-jen into a park, where a great number of wo-)ien were waiting for him, and to put him tojtath. according to the queen's appointment.f ^George’s Speech to his Executioners.J Here's a female band, with bags of ftones,I To kill a man for rumple groms :1 I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts,jl Could I convert my farts to rifts ?jij Since I the firlt* for farting die,I Clofe up the place from whence they fly.f| To commit my crime, I think, ye’ll fear cs,I If once you do cork up your arse.iAnd now since *omen ftones do carry,Men need not in the world tarry.Judge if fuch women be chafte complete.With forty ftoccs between their feet8But 'tiuc Yw fo you will come on,I he greateft whore throw the firft {lone.he ended with these word*, “The greafeftwhore Oiculd throw the firft ftone ” every one )put it to another to caft the firft ftone but !knowing they wou’d attain the character of a Iwhere for fo doing, they all refused till the dying }|hour was paft, and then betook a protest againft jthem, and by that mears he gained his life Af- 1ter this he was admitted.into the Queen's favorand prefence, and attended the court as formerly 1|4 About this time the French King, in order |to pick a quarrel with the court of Br.tain, fent |a letter te the king, desirir g it to be read beforethe parliament: and the writing was as followsWill 1 come - Will 1 come « Will I come fThis letter be ng read before the King and hiscourtiers, they alt concluded that the Frenchking designed to invade England. Thereforethey order ed an ar fwer to be wrote, upbraidinghim with the breach of peace, and putting himin mind of the lift treaty. The anlwer beingread cvti before the king and his nobles theyail agreed that it fhculd be fent off: But Georgeinniing, and Braking his head, cried out,Many men, many minds.Who knows what he eiesings ?Then they asked Gtotge whai he thought the IFrench king meant by luch a letter ? To which Ijhe anf aererd, I fuppose he wants an invitation Ijto come evtr to dine with you, and (feen return9in a friendly manner *, hut you are ge^ng tocharge him ^vith a breach ot peace> b fore he ha*given any signal of offence or war : His letter isindeed dark and myftical, b it fend aim an an-fwer according to his qieftion. bfov. Georgebeing orde -ed ‘o write the an Tver, it was a«follows, “ And ye come And ye co ne - -Andye cf^ne/' T.iis bein ’ feat to the French king,he admired it beyond ticprefsicn, faying, it was*n anlwcr more valiant and daring than he ex¬pected. So the enmity he intended was extin-guifhed and turn :d into love.fi. It happened once, that a malignant partyin Scotland lent up a g-eat spokesman to th.cking and parliament, for the feducing of thechurch, G orge hearing of his coming went a-way and mst him on the bridge, and the falu-tation that he gave him -'as, the cutting off hishead, and throwing it over the bridge ! He thenrun to the king with all hts might, and fell downbefore him pleading moft heartily for a pardon,or without it he was a dead man. The kingmoft seriously asked him what he had done nowfTo which he anfwered, He had only thrown theScots bifhop’s hat over the bridge; which madethe king to laugh, to hear him ask pardon forfuch a fmall fault: But he had no fooner got thepardon fealed by the king's hand, than he faid.Indeed my Sovereign, I threw his hat over thebridge, but his head was in it. O Geordy,Geordy, fays the king, thou wilt never give c-▼er till thou be hange.1.106. A Ncbleman in England agreed with theKing, how to put a trick upon George, to tryhis manly courage, in lending him to a certainplace for a bag of money. On his way home,through St. James's park they caused a fturdyfellow to go and let upon him by the way, andtake the money from him. The fellow being iarmed with fword and pifiol, came up briskly, |and attacked George with thefe words, You sir, jdeliver what money you have or you are a deadman. To winch George anfwered', Sir, 1 have 1fome indeed; but his not my own, and thereforedo not like to part with it; nevertheiefs, fine®being determined as you are to exchange blowsfor it, pray do me the favourrfo fire yoar piftol ,through the flap of xny cloak, that the owners imay fee i have been in danger of my life beforel parted wfth it 4 which he a&csrdingly did. No iIboner hid he fired th? piflcl, than George whipsout his hanger from below his cloak, and withone ftroke cut cJF bis right hand, wherein heheld bis Iword, fo that both his 1’word and the ;hand fell to the ground ; but George listed the |hand, and carried it to the king. No fooner didhe come before them, but they asked him, fay- :ing, Well, George, did you fee any body to ftrouble ycu by the way i None faiu he but one -fellow, who was gedng to take tke mcney fromme 4 but 1 made him give me hi# hand he would |J'not do the like again. You did? fays the fel-|J-Low's mtlkr. Yes, I did, lays George , let work|fbear witnda, tlirowing down the feUow's hand Ifon the table before them ail.117. Now, this laft exploit of George’s caai?imany of the Engliih to hate him; and, amongthe reft, a young nobleman fell a joking ofGeorge, faying, he would he a* famous a cham¬pion for Scotland as Sir William Wallace was.4y,ay, fays George, Wallace was a brave roin his time— True indeed, fays the yo ,n~bletaan, but when he came to London, duahim all manner of j ’jft: e, ana fo- lr ra, ■ '' fa-'Scots, we have his effigy in the -\ oui> to ■Jibvery day. 4nd do you no: know i he rfeafdo ithat, fays George ? No i don’t, fays he. Weil,I'll ted you, {ays George : He was fuch a terrorto Engii thmen, when he was alive, that the sightof his picture yet makes them befh.it themielvei.The Eaglith took this anfwer as a great affront,and forthwith caused Wallace’s picture to be ta¬ken out of their fhk-houfes.8 A i oung English girl falling in love with,a jcotfman. fhe petitioned him feveral times forto marry her ; whsch he refuted. So, to be re¬venged on him, fhe went to a juftise, and fworea rape againft hup, which is death by the law.George hearing of this, went to the prifon wherethe young man was, and inftructcd him how tobehave before the judge. So, ui tk« time of t^etrial, George came in, while the judge was cry¬ing to the man, but never a word he could gethim to'anfwer, to tell whether he was guilty ornot. After the justice nad given him over fordeaf and dumb, others fell a fhouting in his e^rsbut never a word he would fpeak. Then th12ludge, percsiving George, tailed him, faying,George, do vcu know whtt is the matter withthis man ? Yes I do, very well lays GeorgeWhat is it ? fays the judge. Why, fays George,the woman made fuch a roile and crying whenhe was ravifhing her, it has put the poor manquite deaf I afiure you. Is it lo, fays the Jaftice,No, no, fays the woman, my Lord Jufticc, youmay beliere me, I Ivy as mute as a lamb andnever fpoke a word ail the time. Very well con-fdled, laid the JuHiee, and you have fworn arape upon him : l ake the whore to prifon, andlet th» poor n.an go about his bueinefs, and fo itended.PART II.GEORGE happened one time to be incon pany with a biihop, and fo they fell to dif-pute anent g ucation, and he blanked the bifhopremarkably, and the bifhop himfelf owned hiwas woxfted—Then one of the company addref*fed himid'Yo him in tbcfe words, I hou, Scot,faid he, fhouid not Lave left thy country. Forwaat? fay* he. Becaufe thou haft carried ah theW’fdotu that is in it thither with thee. no,fays he, the fhepberde in Scotland will diiputewith any bifhop in London, and exceed themvay fa. in educatioi» The bifhops then to- kthis as ac yfront, and feveral noblemen ;f5 medit to be as Gacrge had faid ; Beats were laid oneach side* and three of the bifhops were chofen,ISand fent away t* Scotiard to difpute it 'with tilefliepherds. accompanied with (everai others whowere to bear witncfs ef what they fhonld hearpafs between them. Now, George knowingwhich way they went, immediately took ano¬ther road, aad was in Scotland before them.[He then made an acquaintance with a ftiepherdi on the border, whofe pafture lay by the way-s:de where rhe bifljops were to ptfs} and there: he mounted hituf If in a £Qepherd,‘s drefs ; andiwhenhefaw the bifhops ?ppear he conveyedhis flock to the road side and fella-chanting ati a Latin balhd. When the bifhops came up to! George, one of them asked him, in French,/twhat o'clock it was f To which he anfwersdLlin Hebrew. It is d-rectly about the time of theIday it was yefterday at this time. Another askedihim in Greek, What countryman he was ? To"which he anfwered, in Fiemifh, If yon knew thatn you would be as wife as tnyfelf. A third askedihim in Dutch Where was you educate ? Toiiwhtch he anfwered, in Erie, H-rding my fheepubetween this and Lochaber. This they desiredjhim to explain into Englilh, which he immedi-lateiy d d. Now, laid they one to another, Wemeed rot proceed any further. What, faysItGeorge. are \oj butchers ? I’ll fell you a fewnliheep io ^his they made no anfwer. but wentire way fhamefuliy and laid they believed the Scotsuhad been through all the nations in the worldiffor their education, or the devil had taught them.INow, when G:orge had ended this difpute with.14the Klhops, he flripcd olT his fibephepd^ drefs^z.nd up through England he goes, with all thehatle imzgicable, so that he arrived at the placefrom whence they set out, three day* before thejudges, and went every day asking if they we£%come, fo that he might not be fu{pected. Asfoon as they arrived, all that were concerned iajthe difpute and many more, came crowding inJto hear what news from the Scottilh ihepherds,and to know what was done. No {boner hadtthe three gentlemen declared what had paft be¬tween the bilhops and the fhephercis, whom rneyfound cn the Sects border, but the old bilhopmade anfwer, and doyou think said he that a,Ihepherd could anfwer the(e questions ? It has1been none else but the devil ? for the Scots midijfters themselves could not do it; they are butb^ys Then George thought it was time tpitake speach in hand. Well, my Lord BUhop*fays George, you call them a parcel of ignorantbeardJeft boys. You have a grtsrt long bearefi'3'ourielf my Lord Bifhop, ami if grace weremt afurtd by beards, you biftops and the goutsswill have it-aii, and that will be quite aveile toiScripture. What, says the bifhop, are you aiScot? yes, lays George* I am a Scot- Well,fays il e b»fhop, and what is the difference be¬tween a Scot snd a let ? Nothing at prdent,lays George, but the breadth ef the tabic, therebeing a table betwixt the bifliop and GrorgeiSo the biflicp went oil' in high pafsion, wh-.Ufill15e whole multitude were like to fpik their jawsith laughter2. About this time there was an act c£parlia-ent for the bcnifit of murderers, that any per-on who committed murder, if they forfeitedve hundred marks, which went under the namef Kinboot, because so much of this fiat went tohe murdered perfons neareft relations, as therice of blood, the murderer got a remit. New,eorge knowing this to be contrary to Mofes*Laws, was very much grieved to see so manypardons fealed with the king’s hand for murder,nlmoft one every week, it bdng fo ufual for theiking to subscribe them, that he wo'uld nd: readj hem, nor inqwire what they were; for which:aufe George writes a right to the crown, andTsent it to the king to be fufcscnbed, which hectually did, and never looking what it wasre-urned it .to George. No loonerhad he receiv ed:t, but he goes to the king, and told him it wasot time for him now to be sitting there; v/here-t the king, greatly amazsd, ftarted up ; theneorge, in a great hafte fets himielf down inhe king’s ejair forthwith, declaring himselfing, faying, you who was kitg mult be myool, for 1 am now the wifcil man. Thet this was greatly c is ended, until George fhew-d him his feai and fuperscription. But fromhat day forth the Ling knew' what he fubfcribeJ"3. The next pardon tha. came to be lealedy th king, wus to a gentleman who had killedtwo men before, and hadgottenpardpncfor16* he ai by money. Thi* being the third, the klojl •was very silent in looking over the petitionGeorge ftandisg by, asked the king what he wail •going to seal now ? To whirh he aalwered, it i«.a remit for a man who h .8 killed three men at]iundry timet, I g-ve-him two remits before OH>lays George, he has killed but one man. AnJiwho kiile 1 the other two ? fays the king. Hdid lays George, for if you had given him juvtice when h* killed the fit ft, he had killed n« .more. When the king heard these wor s he .threw down the pen and declared, that (uch amact to tave a murderer, fbould be null ever after tby h ra.4? One day, George having no money, he gnet;away, and gets a pick ani a spade, and then falltia-digging at a corner of f he king's palace; whichthe king perceiving from his window, calls whatshe was wanting there ? are you going to under*mine my hoafe, and make it fall f No, my fave- jreign, faid George, but it is verily reported, thatthere is pleaty of money about this houfe, andwhere can it be ? fays George, I cannot find itjfor it is not within the houfe to do me fervice}then furcly it mtft be below it. O George, faysthe king, that is a crave after the new faihion;what money you want I'il order it for you .Tnen 1my fovereign, fays George 111 dig no more.5. One time, George being in the country^he came to an inn; wheri he a ighted to refreihhim*-If aud his horfe. The innkeeper chargedhiai double price for every thing he called for.*-17George nevn' grumbled atth:s, but gave him allM his demands, and away be goes on his journey.At the inn where he quartered the followingnight, he was ufed after the fame manner, if notworfe. Having little farther to go, he returnedjj ne\t day, and came that night to the inn wherehe refrefhed himfelf the day before So, whenhe alighted, the boy asked him what he wouldgive his horfe? Wnat you will, fays he. Vvhenhe had gone to bis room, the waiter enquiredwhat he would have to drink i What you will*it- fays he. The mafttr cf the inn came into hisroom before fupper, and enquired what he wouldt have for fupperf What you will? landlord, fays> he- After fupper, and a hearty bowl, to put allover, he went to bed. On the morrow he role,very early, and called for the boy to make readyhis horie in all hafle, for he was designed tomount and go directly. Soon aftei he went iq-to ihe liable where the boy was. calling for hishorie, which he mounted with all the fpeed hecould, and gave the boy a piece of money, fayingHere, my boy, this is for takir g care of my horf^1 have paid for all I call'd tor in the houlie : andcfF he gees. About mid-day he alighted againat an inn, to refrclh himfeif and his hi rfe andthere he chanced to be in company w,th his otherLandlord, where he was the t qhl before, andcharged him with the double reckoning : So lieaddnffed Limleif to him in tire loliowing nunutrSir, fays he, 1 do believe 1 was in your bculell ytfternighu C yes, oir, fay s hr, I mind of youam18pretty well And where was you laft night?—Lait night {ays ! e eorge> I was in one of finedsnm and the civil d landlord I ever had in mylife ; they brought nv* all things I flood in needunto me. without calling for them *, and when Icame off this morning, they charged me nothingand paid nothing but sixpence to the boy fordrefs:ng my horfe—Blood and wounds {aid theold fellow; then I'll go there this night.— 8y,fays George, do. and mind this, When they askyou what you will have for yaurfelf and yourhorse, answer nothing but, A^hat you will Sir —George smiled within himfelf, to think how hehad got the one extortioner to take amends ofthe other —So this innkeeper fet olTon his jour¬ney, and rode so late that night, that he mightreach the cheap inn, that moft of the people weregone to bed before he arrived,—As fcon as heditmounte" from his Jiorse, the boy enquired athim. What fhail l give to your horse, Mafter ? Towhich he anfwered, what you will boy.—Theboy hearing this, runs away (leavinghim and hishis horfe toftard at the door) up flairs to hismatter's room, crying, Mafter mafter What yewill is come back ivgain' 0 the rogue, cries hewhere is he ?—I’ll cane him—I'll what you willhim by and by !—And to him he runs with hiscane, licks and kicks him antill he wjs fcarccable to mount his herfe, and would give him noentertainment there; which caused him to ridethe >iicle o! a cold winter night, after he hadgot Lis bcr.es all beat and bmiatd,.—So {he *nC)19j pursued the other as a murderer; and his defencet jnras, That he war a cheat, and a fcorner of hi*houfe, until the truth was found out.6. About this time the French king fent, anddemanded from the king of England, three menjf d fferent qualities —- The firft was to be a■nighty ftrcng man; the fecond a very wife man;! md the third a very great fool; lo that he mighti lave none hi all France to match them —--So,iccordingly, there were two men cholen; theone a .Trong man, and the other a very wife man,out George was to act as a fool; neverthelefs he|fwas the te-acher of the other twc On theirway to France, George asked the ftrong man,What will you aniwer the French king, whenoe asks if you be a ffrong man ? Why, says he,ITl fay I am.—Then, fays George, he’ll poffibly;€t a ftronger man than you, who may kill youi .nd afiront your country——What (hall I fay:hen f’faid the ftrong man.—Why f»ya George,31 him you are ftrong enough untried— Thenays he to the wife man, And what will you faythe king v.hen he asks if you are a wife man iWhy I’ll tell him I am, and anfwer him all thejueftions I know —Very well, lays George ; butvhat if he ask you what you do not know ? then/cu’il affront y«ur country, and be looked upoass a greater fo.d than me—Well, what fhall 1ihlwer then ? laid the wife man—Vv hy„ 1 tvs(George, tell him He is only a wile o an that cantake care of himielf; and l fhaTl come in afteryou, and take ca:t o* you a!1 t^pether. Asfooz20As thev arrived at the king of Fi-Arce’s palace,the king fer-t for the n to try them. The ftrongman was firft called for, and in he went : Thenthe king asked him if he was a ftrong man i Towhich he anfwer'd,0 King, I am ftrong enoughuntried. Very well, laid the king. After himthe wife m?.n was called; and the king ask’d himif he was a w ife man ? To which he anfwered,He is only a wife man tl at can take care of him-felf. Very well, fays the king   )n whichGeorge puftTd uy the door, and in he went withloud laughter, ar d pifh'd directly in his majefty'sface, which blinded both his eyes, and put thewho e ciurt in airuze ! Now, now, laid his ma-jefty. it is true enough the wile man fays, for ifI had taken care of myfelf, 11 eed not have beenpifled upcn by the Englilh focd. Oho, faysGeorge, fools always ftrive to make fools of o-thers, but wife men make fcois of themfelves.By this his Majelty feemed to think he was madethe greateft tool, and charged them forth to gohome, fcr he wanted no more of England’sftrengih. wiidom or folly.7. One night a Highland drover chanc’d tohive a drinking bout with an E< glifb captainof a fhip, and at lift they came to be very heartyover their cups, lo that they caiied in their fcr-varits to have a (hare of the r liquor. The tro¬ver's lervant looked like i wild man, going with- ‘-{Sout breeches, ftock ngs, or iboes, not io muchas a bonnet on his head, with a long peel’d rungin bis hand. The Cspuin asked themrover nowI21long it w?s iii cc he catched him? fife Tinfwered,It is about two years since & hauled him out ofthe fea with a net, and afterwards he ran intothe mountainSv where l cattL/d h m with a packof ! ounds. The cap;ain belie ved it was fo hutfays he, 1 ha. e a fervant t~e bell fwiaimer in thew x:d : O out, fays the drover, my fervant wi.lfwim him to det.th. Nos he will not, fays theca tain. III lay two hundred crowns on it , Thenfa; s the di over, 1 hold it one to one and flakeddirectly, tne ay being appointed when trial wasto be made. Now, the drover, when h« came tohimfelf, thinking on what aba gain he had mace,did not know what to do, knowing very wellthat his lervant could fwim none. He hearingof George being in town, who was always a goodfriend to bcotfmen, he went unto him and toldhim he whole dory, and that he would be en¬tirely broke, and durft never return home to hisown country, for he was fure to lofe it ThenG or^-e called the cirov r and his man aside, andiiifi.rm.ted them how to behave, fo as they fhouldbe fate and gain too. So, accordingly, they met,•t the place appointed The captain's man ftriptdirectly and threw himfelf into the f a> takinga turn until the h ghl?ndman was ready, for thedrover touk fome time to put his iervant in or¬der. Afti.r he was dripped, his mader tcok hisplaid, and rolled akebbuck of ebeefe, a big loaf,and a bottle of gin in it and this he bound onhis (boulders giving him direction to tell hiswife and children that he was well, and to be22_fufe he returned *ith an anfrfef agalnft tilt dayie'enight. As he went into the fea, he lookedback to his matter, and called out to him for hisclaymore. And what waits he for now i fays thecaptain’s fervant. He wants his fwotd, lays th#matter. His fword t fays the fellow} what is heto do with a fword ? Why, fays th« matter, if hemeets a whale or a monftrcus beaft, it is to cftr-■fend his life: I know he will have to fight his waythro’ the north feas, ere he go to Lochaber. Thejscried the Captain's fervant. I’ll fwira rone withhim, if he takes his fword. Ay, but, fays hi*metier, you {hall, or lose the wager ; take youanother tword with you. Ko, fays th« fellow, fnever did twim with a sword, aor any man elfd^that ever I faw or heard of; I know not but thatwild man will kill me in the dfcep water*, I wouldnot, for the whole world venture myfelf withhim and a fword. the captain feeing hr* feyvanfafraid to venture, or if he did, he would neverfee him again alive ; therefore he defired an a-greement with the drcV.r, who at fir ft teemedunwilling; bur the captain putting it in his will,the drover quit him for half the sum: This hecame to, through George’s advice. |8. George was met one day by three bithops,who paid him the following compliments : Saysthe firft, Good-morrow, father Abraham : Saysthe ieccnd, good-morrow, father Ifaac : fays the ?,third, Good-morrow, father Jacob. To which |! Jhe replied, I am neither father Abraham, father [Ifaac-. cor lather Jacob ; but I am &aul, the fo*25of Kifli, Tent 641 to feek my father's afles, andlo I have found three of them. Which anfwerfolly convinced the bifhop* that they had mifta-ken their man.9 A poor Scotfman dined One day at a publichoufe in London upon eggs, and not having mo¬ney to pay- got credit till he £houId return Theman feeing lucky in trade, acquired vaft riches ;and after fome years happening to pafs that way,called at the houfe where he was owing the din¬ner of eggs. Having called for the innkeeper, heasked him what he had to pay for the dinner ofeggs he got from him fuch a time? The landlordfeeing him now rich, gave him a bill of feveralpounds j telling him, as his reafon for so extra¬vagant a charge, that thefe eggs, had they beenhatched, would have been chickens ; and thefelaying more eggs, would have been more chick¬ens ; and to on, multiplying the eggs and theirproduct, till fuch time as their value amowDtedto the fum charged. The man refuting to complywith his demand, was charged ^before a judge.He then made his cafe known to George, hiscountryman, who proaufed to appear in the hourof caufe ; which he accordingly did, all in a fweatwith a great basket of boil’d peafe ! which ap¬pearance furprifed the judge ; who asked himwhat he meant by thefe boil'd peafe? fays he,. I am going to low them. When will they grow?fays the judge. They will grow, laid George,when fodden eggs grow chickens. Which aa-fwer convinced the judge of the extravagance24-of the innkeepers demand, and the Scotimaa“was afloilzcdfor two peace halfpenny.George being now far advanced in years, andbeing weary of the great fatigue and folly of thecourt fafhions, a fhorttime before his death hehad a great defire to visit his native country, andthe place of 1“ is nativity : Therefore he petition¬ed the king for permifsion to do fo, which wasgranted. So he fet out for ScoCland, and wentto the parifli of Buchanan in Stirlingfhirewhere he visited all his relations and friends —But George Haying longer from court than thetime allowed the king lent him feveialltieffsgesto r«turn, to which he returned no ar fwer. Atlalt the king fent him a letter, threatening, thatif he did not app*ar before him in the (pace of£0 days he wou d lend his Lyon herald for him,to which George returned the fodowing anfwer,My honour’d Lirge, and fovereigr King,Oi your opaftieg great 1 f-ar nothing ;On your feud and fav( nr i'll fairly venture,Ere that day 111 be where few K.rgs will enter.And alio gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of hiskingdom, and the well-being of his foul; whichdrew teats from the King’s eyes when he read il.FtNls.