•IMMMSTORYS OPig BEWITCHED FID DEE Ft,PERILOUS SITUATION,rytrxi|)rygjOHN HETHERINGTON’S DREAM.kVDUtiHGLASGOOF SCOTLANIH^PfNBURG^PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.28> a: i •fn d j a * ri a a :s otiw x a:/■J/, U a e ^HOls.>: :■ >»UB^'y ‘0Q2AJQ. LI < :;,r M 3BT 801 COmiUlYr> v\ o.**cTHEBEWITCHED FIDDLER.j Matthew Wilmart was the best fiddler inI the city of Hesdin. There was no villagefor ten miles round, where they would haveenjoyed their dancing, if any one but(Matthew Wilmart fingered the violin forhem. He was a personage, consequently,if no little importance. He sat down withhe relations at marriage feasts; and theiride, who waited upon the guests duringthe repast, according to a custom of thecountry, was always sure to give the titbitsi o Matthew. When he opened his lips, alllistened to him, for there was nobody bettert telling a story or singing a song.One winter night, there was a marriager Auffin. The dancing had been continuedo a late hour, and it was already past mid-ilght, when Matthew threw his violin overis shoulder, and announced his attention oiiking leave.—They used every effort tore vail upon him to remain.‘ Stay, father Matthew,’ they say, 4 thesind is north-east, and it is cold enough to>lit the very stones. The forest of He?4din, which yon must pass through, has a badname. It is haunted by wolves and robbers,not to mention the sorcerers who meet there.’4 I have a good goblet of wine in me,’said the old man, ‘a fine fur cloak on my Ishoulders, and a good iron club in my hand. IWith all these, I dety the cold, wolves, and Irobbers. As to wizards and devils, if Imeet any, they shall dance to the sound otmy violin. They will tell me if the musi¬cians in hell play a better fiddle than oldMatthew Wilmart.’In finishing these words, which made theyoung people laugh, and the old men shaketheir heads in displeasure, he enveloped him- iself in his cloak, and set out at a firm paceon the path which led through the forest toHesdin.He had not been more than a quarter of ,an hour on his way, when the sky, just beforeblue and starry, was suddenly covered with i.an immense cloud. The darkness becamefrightful. Our fiddler began to regret that .he refused a good bed at Auffin. But it iwas too late to retrace his steps. Besides,after his bravadoes, they would not fail tolaugh at him for his want of courage. Hecontinued his course. To add to his chagrin,he discovered that he had lost the path.What was to be done. To advance wasonly to loose his way still more effectually.To wrap himself in his cloak and lie downat the foot of a tree was altogether unsafe;the wolves would inevitably make a mealof him; though, if he escaped them he wotddperish of cold. His two hands resting onhis staff, he remained some minutes in apainful anxiety, when a light suddenly ap¬peared in the distance. ‘ It comes from somewood-cutters’ cottage,’ said he, 4 God hepraised !’ He was on the point of directinghis steps towards it, but it had vanished.The anger of the fiddler knew no bounds.He struck the earth with his staff, and utteredthe most shocking blasphemies. His lipswere still pronouncing them, when the lightre-appeared.It wras with the greatest difficulty, andafter much time, that Matthew' arrived atthe spot from which the light had first pro¬ceeded. His surprise was extreme on findingthere a magnificent chateau of which hehad never beibre heard. Brilliant musicwas resounding from all parts of it, and thedancers who were passing every momentbefore the windows, cast their dark and rapidshadows upon the curtains, which a reddishight rendered transparent.He went round and round this immensettiuilding several times to find an entrance,ibut in vain. He had given it up in despair,jwhen an old man suddenly appeared andosounded a horn. A drawbridge whichMatthew had not before observed, was im¬mediately let down, and our fiddler, follow¬ing the old man, entered the mansion.He was astonished to find it filled by aninconceivable multitude of people. Somewere taking part in a splendid repast; otherswere playing at games of chance; but thegreatest number were dancing.Matthew advanced with boldness to a manof elevated stature, whom he recognised asmaster of the mansion, by the manner whichhe gave out his orders, and the respect which♦vas generally paid to him. ‘My lordgovernor, ’ said he to him. ‘ I am a poor fiddlerwIk> has been lost in the woods. Condescendto allow me to pass the night in a corner ofyour mansion, and I will depart to-morrowat break of day.’ The personage whomMatthew addressed answered only with asmile, and a sign of assent At the order ofhis master, a page took the violin from thefiddler, and attached it to one of the goldennails which glittered among the rich drap¬eries in the hall. Whilst occupied with thisservice, the page grinned with an infernalgrin, and the part of the instrument whichhis fingers touched grew black as if it hadbeen burned.Matthew now began to walk about on allsides and examine the strange place wherei 7 he found himself, hut he in vain endeavouredto recognise any of the strange people bywhom he was surrounded. Every time thathe fixed his eyes upon any one of them, a' sort of thin mist shrouded his face, and baf¬fled the old man’s curiosity. While he wasseeking to account for this strange circum¬stance, he perceived a bass-viol hanging upj of such exquisite beauty that he thought heshould like to try his hand upon it, and dis-j, play Ids skill to the other fiddlers. RaisingIds eyes to find the staircase leading to theirgallery, what was his affright to recogniseamong them old Barnabas Matassart, whohad been dead 30 years, and had given1dm his first lessons on the violin. ‘HolyVirgin,’he cried, ‘have pity on me!’ Atthe same moment, musicians, dancers, andchateau, all disappeared heibre Ids eyes.On the next day, the inhabitants of Auffin,who more prudent than the fiddler, haddelayed their departure till morning, foundthe old man extended at length at the footof a gibbet, with a white fiddlestick in hishand.‘Father Matthews,’ says one of them,‘ has chosen rather a queer place to sleep in.’‘ And a still queerer nail to hang his fiddleon,’ answered another, ‘ his violin and boware both strung on the toe of a hangedman.* He is not afraid that the carcase would be •cold ?’ added a third. ‘ The old man has |covered his dry shoulders with his own cloak.‘He is a prudent fellow, old father f‘Matthew,’ said a fourth, who was trying to |jbring the old musician to life; ‘why he carried Jtwo fiddles with him, so that if he broke onehe should have another.’When Matthew returned to himself by dintDf the labours of the good folks about him,he attributed every thing to the cold, andtook care not to say a single word of the in¬fernal visions which had appeared to him.But on entering his cottage, he carefullyexamined the instrument of which he had Jbecome possessed in so strange a manner. A !thrill of horror was the result of this examin¬ation. The fiddle was nothing more thanthe bone of a dead man, wrought w ith ex¬quisite skill; and he read upon its rich silverornaments the name of an inhabitant ofHesdin, who passed there as a sorcerer anda wizard.Wrhen the evening shades gathered, herepaired to the house of this ill-famedman :—‘ Friend,’ said he, with a low salutation,‘there is a fiddle which belongs to you, Ibelieve. I have accidently found it, and bthought I would bring it back to you.His neighbour grew pale at these words, -9and stood for a moments m astonishmentwithout uttering a word.i Oh! oh! master Matthew,’ he at lengthmuttered, ‘ you have discovered strangetilings during the past night, and a wordfrom you might do me much mischief.’4 God forbid, then, friend, that I shouldutter it.’4 You are a brave man, Matthew, but youmust keep your tongue well. If they burnme alive as they certainly will if they findout half of what you know, it will go hardwith you friend Matthew.'Matthew rose to go, but the owner of thestrange fiddle stopped him, and, putting hismouth to his ear, muttered in a low voice—‘Neighbour, tell me your enemies; I willsend a plague among their cattle this verynight; or I will devise some means to getyou entirely rid of them.’41 have no enemies, neighbour, and Godi forbid that 1 should wish ill to any one.’4 In what manner, then, can I be usefulto you ?’4 In nothing,’ replied our fiddler, who vrasin a hurry to be gone; 4 in nothing, neigh¬bour. I consider myself lucky in being ableto restore to you so fine a fiddle.’4 A beautiful fiddle to be sure. But,i neighbour Matthew, I must make you somet present.’10i Give him this purse : take out of it asmuch as you will, and as often as you will,and there will yet be six livres lett in it’These words are spoken by a man of sin-iater aspect, who certainly was not in thesorcerer’s cabinet when Matthew arrived.How held he entered ? It was impossible tocomprehend, for the doors had all beencarefully closed by the master of the house,that none might hear his conversation withMatthew.4 It is some of the devil’s handy work, criedthe fiddler, £ and I will not risk my salva¬tion by accepting it.’4 It is a talisman,’ replied the other, 4 atalisman which a Christian can use withoutfear.’ In pronouncing the word Christian,a shudder ran over all his limbs.4 If this purse is the work of the devil,then I am damned,’ added he with a bittersmile.Matthew, half convinced, yielded to thetemptation of becoming' possessor of such atreasure.He had recourse so frequently to the won¬derful purse, that he became in a short time,master of a pretty house, and lived in assplendid a style as the richest citizen inHesdin.Every day were feasts and fetes withoutend.—He continued however to play at wed-11dings, but he had a good mule of a gentle stepto ride on, and a varlet to carry his fiddle.This new manner of life of the fiddleroccasioned a great deal of astonishment inthe town of Hesdin, and gave rise to varioussurmises. The most general belief was thatMatthew had discovered a hidden treasure.Now Matthew had four nephews, rakishyoung men, whom he had never assisted onaccount of their ill conduct. They said oneday among themselves, ‘ Our uncle Matthewhas become rich, and we shall inherit all hiswealth.’ They understood each other, and| they all went out with weapons, to watchfor Matthew at a crossway in the woods,where they knew he would pass that night.1’he fiddler could not avoid his fate.Four arrows pierced the old man, while hismore fortunate varlet escaped.The four brothers, without thinking on| this witness of their crime, ran towardsI the carcass for the purpose of despoiling it.They were prevented by a man of sinisteraspect, who rushed upon the body, took fromit a little purse, and ran away crying,4 Thus much good do my gifts !’ A bittersmile followed these words.While the assassins were standing dumbwith horror, they were suddenly surroundedby the sheriff and other officers of justice.Matthew’s varlet had met them in his flight,12and returned with them to arrest hie assas¬sins of his master.Justice was not slow in following theproper proof of the crime. The sheriff hadthem all hung on the tree behind whichthey concealed themselves to commit themurder. This circumstance has given thespot the name which it still bears.—TheCrossway Of The Four Brothers.a1t:A PERILOUS SITUATION.I sat in the cuddy, watching the storm,till past eight o’clock, when a flash whichilluminated the whole hemisphere, and wasaccompanied with loud cracking, and atremendous noise, struck the ship, and killed,upon the spot, two of the seamen on the fore¬castle. I ran to the door to ascertain the eflectsof the stroke, and heard the seccond mate,who was between decks, cry out, ‘ Fire inthe hold! fire belo w !’ The cargo had takenfire from the electric fluid. The scene whichfollowed exceeds all description ; it was onethat can never be forgotten by any who wit¬nessed it.In a moment all hands were on deck;buckets were supplied in abundance; thepumps were manned and leaked, that thewater might be discharged on the burningcargo; passengers and crew were all on thealert: I threw off my boatcloak, which Ihad procured by rushing below through thesmoke into my cabin, and assisted at thepumps. When the hatches were taken olf,to allow of water being poured into the hold,flames and clouds of smoke issued forth as14from a furnace, increasing every instant inheat and density. It was soon found thatall exertion was in vain—the vessel mustperish!From the pumps we ran to the boats; th?gig hung over the larboard quarter, so as t <Ite lowered in a moment; hut we shouldhave lost its valuable services, had not a gen¬tleman threatened to send a bullet throughthe head of the carpenter, who, insane withterror had brought a hatchet to cut the ropesand drop it at once into the sea. The yawl,a larger boat, was our great difficulty; itwas turned, keel upwards, over the longboat, to serve as a roof to the live stockkept in the latter. Many attempts weremade, in vain, to raise it from its situation;the long Iwat was already on fire, by theflames bursting from the main hold. Iclimbed into it (without feeling that, in doingso, I broke my shins severely) to give myassistance; and when we were just ready todespair, the yawl eased and rose, no oneknew how, and was over the side and in thewater, more quickly, the sailors said, thanthey had ever before seen it done.Captain Dacre had already affirmed, inanswer to my inquires, that the two boafficould not carry all the ship’s company, pas-sengers and crew ; and under other circum¬stances, we should not have dared to trv7 ^15them; but the trial must now be made.The two ladies, one of whom had to behurried from her bed, where she had retiredfor the night, were first put safely into thyawl; some other passengers and uyseif,with part of the crew, followed, and ourweight sank it nearly to the water’s edgi;the captain and others entered the smallerboat and sufficiently filled it, leaving thevessel with honourable reluctance; while thefirst mate, Mr Ibbetson, gallantly remainedon board to the last, suggesting the bestarrangements, and assisting to hand to usany article that could be got at the moment,that might he useful to us in the extremeperils we were alwut to encounter.Many of the party having retired to theirhammocks before the electric fluid struckthe vessel, were half naked; but were sup¬plied with trowsers and jackets, by thoseseamen who had been on the watch; who,in consequence of the heavy rain, had easedthemselves in double or treble their usualquantity of clothing. My own dress wasmerely a nankeen jacket and trowsers, ashirt and neckcloth. 1 had lost my hat inassisting to get out the boat.We happily succeeded in bringing aw'aytwo compasses from the binnacle, and afew candels from the cuddy table, one ofthem lighted; one bottle of wine and ano-16ther of porter were handed to us, with thetable-cloth and a knife, which proved veryuseful; hut the fire raged so fiercely in thebody of the vessel, that neither bread norwater could be come at.It was now about nine o’clock: the rainpoured in torrents : the lightning continuedto stream from one side of the heavens tothe other, one moment dazzling us by itsglare, and the next leaving us in darkness,relieved only by the red tlames of the confiagration, from which we were trying to escape.Our first object was to get clear of thevessel, lest she should explode and overwhelmus. But to our great distress we discoveredthat the yawl had no rudder, and that in thetwo boats we had only three oars, all exer¬tions to obtain more from the ship havingproved unsuccessful. From the gig, whichhad a rudder, they gave us a rope’s end tokeep us in tow; and by means of a fewspars, found at the bottom of the boat, wreassisted in moving ourselves slowly throughthe water. Providentially the sea was verystill, or our boats would have swTamped andwre must have perished. There was alsovery little wind, but it sometimes changed,and assisted by the prevailing current, urgedforward the burning ship; for the sails,being drenched with rain, did not easilytake fire. Our situation, therefore, was for17some time exceedingly perilous. The vesselneared us more than once, and seemed tothreaten to involve us in its own destruction.The cargo, consisting chiefly of hams,cheeses, ale, porter, spirits, and other thingsequally combustible, burned with violenceand rapidity, and the flames rose to anamazing height.We succeeded in encreasing the distancebetween us and the vessel; directing ourcourse towards land, by help of the com¬passes, which wre could see by the light ofthe candles we had with us. About teno’clock, we saw the masts go overboard, andthe sides of the vessel seemed to he burntdown to the water’s edge. The spectaclewas awfully grand, even contemplated ab¬stractedly from a recollection of our owncircumstances. The destruction, by fire, ofthe animals on hoard, dogs, sheep, &c., atanother time would have excited our deepestcommisseration, hut, at present, the totalloss of property, the awfully sudden death ofthe seamen, our own narrow escape, and thegreat probabilities, even yet, that we shouldnever again see the light of day, or set ourfeet on solid ground, seemed to absord ourfaculties and feelings: fur some time thesilence was scarcely broken, and I doubt not,that many, like myself, were engaged inthoughts most suitable to immortal beings rs on the brink of eternity—in thankfulnessand in prayer.The number of persons in the two boatswas forty-eight; and all, with the excep¬tion of the two ladies, who, I must observe,bore these awful circumstances with extra¬ordinary fortitude, took it in turns to workat the oars and paddles. After some time,to our great relief, the rain ceased; thelalwiur of bailing water from the boats wasconsiderably diminished; we hailed eachother frequently, during the night, and thehonest tars, true ‘hearts of oak,’occasionallygave a simultaneous ‘ hurra.’ to cheer eachother, and to keep up our spirits.dlie Tanjore must have risen in thewater, as it gradually consumed; we sawit burning the whole night, and at day¬break could distinguish a column of smokearising from it, which, however, soonceased, and we saw and heard no more ofour favourite ship. When the sun rose, wecould clearly discern land a-head; the sightof it filled us with grateful joy and nervedus with fresh vigour.JOHN HETHERINGTON’SDREAM.In a certain small town in the south ofScotland there lived, about three years ago,a very respectable tailor, of the name ofJohn Hetherington—that is to say, Johnwore well with the world; but, like toomany of his craft, he was sorely addictedto cabbaging. Not a coat could he make,not a pair of trowsers could he cut out, notI a waistcoat could he stitch up, but he musthave a patch of this, that, and t’other, wereit for no other purpose but just to serve as abit of a memorial. One very warm evening,, towards the end of August, 1826, John hadgone to bed rather earlier than usual, butnot without having laid in a very good shareof a very tasty Welsh rabbit, which saidrabbit being composed of about a pound oftough cheese, of course furnished the poortailor after he had fairly tumbled over intothe land of Nod, with something of a verycurious Welsh rabbit vision. It suddenlystruck him that this life, with all its cares andanxieties, was over with him; that the20finishing stitch had been put to the greatwork of life, and the thread of his existencecut through. In the other world, to hismisfortune, he found things not moving socomfortably as he would have wished, andthe Old Gentleman with the short hornsand the long tail, rigged out in his best suitof black, was the first friend he forgatheredwith after passing the border. ‘ There’s afine morning,’ said the wily old dog, ‘ howdo you find yourself after long travel ?’‘ No that weel,’ stammered out the halfdead son of a goose, ‘ no that weel, andI dinna think, all things considered, it wouldbenefit me much to be found in such com¬pany—no offence to your Reverence,’ as hesaw his new friend’s collar rise, ‘ no offenceto your Reverence, 1 trust, but if I maybe so bold, I would thank you to tell me thereason of my being here; and, above all,who’s to be thankit for the honour of an in¬troduction to your Reverence?’ ‘That youwill know shortly, friend—nay, John Hether-ington, for you see I know you;’ and takinga large parcel from below his left arm, hecommenced to unroll it, and to the astonish¬ment of poor John, unfolded a longisheetof patchwork, in which were found scrapsof every hue—a web of many colours—allneatly stitched together; and in the middle,by way of a set off, a large bit of most cx-21eellent blue cloth, which had been cabbagedthat very “morning from a |irime piece whichhe had got into Ins hands for the purpose ofmaking a marriage coat for his neighbour,the blacksmith. £ Was all this stuff gotfairly and honestly, good man,’ said the OldGentleman, with a sneer quite worthy ofBeelzebub. £ I suppose you will be aide torecognise some of these old bits; what thinkyou now of that piece in the middle whichyour eyes are fixed on—cabbaged no fartherback than this morning? Come along,my old boy, come along; you are a trueson of your old father, I see, and I willfurnish you with as warm winter quarters asyou ever enjoyed when you was half stewedwith your old maiden-aunt, at the top offifteen pair of stairs in the High Street ofEdinburgh, when serving your apprentice¬ship with Dick Mouleypouches.’ A coldsweet broke over the poor tailor, and he feltas if he could have sunk snugly into theearth, if it had only had the goodness toopen at that moment for his especial accom¬modation, when he saw the long bony armstretched out, with its sharp eagle claws, toclutch him : he made a sharp bolt back, andgiving vent to his feelings in a loud andlong howl, which i^ng horribly in his earslong after opening his eyes, he found himselfsprawling in the middle of his wooden floor,22with all the bedclothes tumbled above him.It was the first breaking' out of a fine morn¬ing; the sun was rising, and all naturelooked fresh and fair; but poor John was atthe point of death, with sheer bodily fear andtrembling, so that to get to bed again, andto sleep, would have been martyrdom; there¬fore he huddled on his clothes, and walkedout (to snuff the caller air,’ and muse overhis wonderful dream. The more he thoughtof it, the more he saw the necessity of re¬forming his mode of life; and, before fin¬ishing his stroll, he was an altered man, andhad made up his mind never more to cabbagean inch of cloth; and, by walking cir¬cumspect and just, he trusted that his pastoffences might be wiped out, and that thewonderful web of many colours should nomore be brought up as evidence against him.To make him the more secure in the eventof forgetfulness in the hour of temptation,his foreman was let into the great secret,and had orders at all times to rub up his re-memberance when there was any thing goodgoing, which he used to do by the laconicphrase of—£ Master, mind the sheet!’A year passed over, and the terror of thedream being yet fresh in his memory, John’stransactions were strictly honest. He couldcut out with somewhat more considerableease, and had lost a good deal the knack ofcutting out the sly piece at the cornerBut, alas! for the stability of all human•esolutions, our friend was sorely tempted,md how he stood we shall soon see. He had^ot to hand a beautiful piece of red cloth,or what purpose I know not, whether forhe coat of a field officer, or the back of abx hunter, but a prime piece of cloth that¥as; he turned it over to this side, and back« that, viewed it in all lights and shades,•ubbed it against the grain, and found itaultless; he had never seen such a finenece of cloth before; scissors had neverjefore cut such immaculate stuff. He fixedlis eye wistfully on a tempting corner, lookedjp, and his foreman John was staringirmly in his face: he had read his thoughts.: Master, mind the sheet!’ solemnly ejac-ilated John. ‘ I’m just swithering, John ;I’m just swithering: now when I mind,heir wasna a piece of red cloth in all theSheet; and mair by token, there was a bitS^ap at one of the corners; now, I’m justhinking, since it maun be that all these bit■dds and ends are to be evidence against meihen I come to the lang count, it would be•etter to snick a bit aff the corner here; andhat you see, John, will fill all deficiencies,md mak the sheet, since it maun appear‘gainst me, evidence, John, without ataw!’24ANECDOTE.Doup-al Graham, author of a well knowrjmetrical history of the rebellion in 1745|being1 candidate for the place of town bell-jman in the city of Glasgow, was desired t(!call “ Gude fresh herrings new come in atthe Brooinielaw,” (it not being the seasor< f herrings), Dougal added,“ But, indeed, my friends, it’s a’ a blaeflum,“ For the herrings no catch’d, an’ the boat’s no come,”which procured for Dougal the situation.Dougal was a kind of Scotch iEsop, hehad a large humph on one of his shoulders,and like his prototype, had wit. Calling inthe street of the Gallogate, opposite theSaracen’s Head Inn, where several officersof the gallant 42d regiment were dining,;at the close of the American war, some olwhom knew Dougal before they went abroad,opening the window, called out, “ What’sthat you’ve got on your back, Dougal ?"Knowing what the regiment suffered at)Bunker’s Hill, Dougal replied, “ It’sBunker’s Hill, do you choose to mount?”FINIS.