THEENTERTAINING^ , %HIS TORYof:Sandford and MertonTWO AMIABLEYOUNG BOYS.• •Ha rry Sandford was a Farmer’s Son :i^.nd Tommy Merton was the Sonof a Wealthy Gentleman.t . i L K i R K:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.t •THEH 1 S T 0 R ro FSANDFORD and MERTON.The hero of our hiftory, TommyMerton* was the only^fon of a gentlemanof great fortune, who had large pofleffionsin the ifland of Jamaica, but had cometo refide, for fonie time, in the weft ofEngland.Having thus briefly flated the paren¬tage of Mailer Tommy, we fliall proceedto particulars refpedting his conduit, butihall not prefume to make any animad-verfions at prefent, as the narrative willbe beft calculated to*ftiew the ben t of hisdifpofition. When any company cameto viftt at their houfe, he was fure to be-/3( 3 )liave in fuch a manner as difgufted everyone prefent. He mull have the firft cut ofevery thing at dinner; and at tea-time,the cups and faucera were frequentlyoverfet, by hts eagernefs to reach at abit of toaft, or any other favourite objecthe had in view.When Tommy arrived in England, hewits {.hen fix years of age; he had notlearned fo much as to write or read, and,to complete his character, he was impati¬ent, fretful, and proud.A plain and honeft farmer lived at nogreat diftacce from Mr. Merton’s feat,who, like him, had an only fon, but a fewmonth’s older than Mr. Merton. Hisname was Harry Sanford. His obligingmanners and affable temper made himbeloved by every one; and fo tendei*were his feelings, that he would deflroyno animal whatever, faying, that God hadmade nothing in vain, and we had noright to put an end to the exiilence of anycreature he had been plcafed to make.Such amiable accomplifhments asthefedrew on him the attention of the clergy¬man of the pari fit, who was fo much,■pleated with him, that he taught him to( 4 )read and write, and was always happywhen young Harry was with him. LittleHarry was an obliging creature, andcheerfully Pubmitted to do whatever hewas bidden; and was fo much attached totruth, that he abhorred telling a lie onany o. cafion.Accident happened to bring him and-Tommy Merton together. The latterwas one morning walking in the fieldswith his female attendant, when a largefnake rufned from its concealed abode,and twined,, itfelf round one of the legsof poor Tommy. Harry, who happenedto be at a littledillance, law all that palled,&nd inflantly running to his affillance,feized the i’nake, and relieved Idmmy.from his terror. Mrs. Merton hearingthe Ihrieks of the mjid, ran with half tinfamily, to the aflillance of her darling fon,and finding he had received no injuryfrom the cruel animal, inquired in what Imanner he had got rid of it. “'Indeed jmamma, faid Tommy, had not that little |boy come to my aflillance, I fear thenaily creature would have bitten me.”“ Pray, my dear, laid the lady; |vvhofe good boy are you, to whom I amfo mucli oUigccl ?’C 5 !. ,— “ My nsme, fa id he,is Harry Sanford.” • Mrs. Merton thenInfilled that he fhould go home and dinewith them; but Harry endeavoured toe'ncnfe himfelf, by faying his father wouldnant him. The matter, however, wasfoon fettled; Mrs. Merton fent a fervanCto the farmer, and, taking Harry by the• hand, led him to her houfe, where everything appeared quite new to him.Dinner being over, the lady prefentedHarry with a giafs of wine, which hothanked her for, but begged ;o be excufeddrinking it, faying, that his mailer, Mr.Barlow, told him, that he fhould nevereat but when he was hungry, nor drinkbut when he was dry; that he fhould ac-cuflom himfelf to eat and drink tholetilings only whicTi are eafily to be pro¬cured, as other wife he might grow’ peevilkand fretful, when he could not get them.Mr. Merton ojTerved to his lady, thathe wilhed Mr. Barlow would take theirTommy under his care, as he grew agreat boy, and it was time he fhouldlearn fomething, After HarK was gone,a long converfation took place betweenMr. Merton and his lady, which conclud-< <5 *)ed a it!i an agreement between Mr.Merlcnand his wife, that'their fon Tommy fliould ■be put under the care of the fan:9 mailer :as Harry. Mr. Barlow vwas accordinglyinvited the next Sunday to dinner, whenMr. Merton introduced the fubject, andTommy’s parents delivered him into t£e 'hands of this good man, to tutor him ashe thought bell.CHAP II.W E have now brought Tommy to the ]vicarage, which was about two miles from (his father’s houfe, to undergo a very ma¬terial change in his temper and difpofition.The next morning after breakfaft, Mr.Barlow conducted him and Harry intothe garden. He then took a fpade him- *felf, gave a hoe to Harry, and they bothbegan their work. Tommy was invitedto join them in their labour, but he reject¬ed with contempt an offer which, hethought, was more proper to be made toa plough-boy than to a young gentlemanof his fortune.Mr. B irlow and Harry worked abouttwo hours in the garden, and afterwardsretiring to a fummerhoufe, he tools a'3( 1 )plateful of cherries from a cupboard, anddivided them between himfelf and Harry,without ever offering Tommy one, whoundoubtedly expected his fhare. Thisput the youth into a fulien ffate, whichat laft found vent in tears. After de-molifhing the cherries, Harry propofiedto read a leffon, to which Mr. Barlowagreed. This good boy then took uphis book, and read 'the itory of theLittle Twins.s' '< ■ ■ ‘ ■ IOn their arrival at home to dinner.Tommy, who had been all this timerambling in the garden in a folitary man¬ner, made his appearance, and being veryhungry, was.going to fit down at the tablewith the rell; but Mr. Barlow cbfervedto him, that as he was too much of a gen¬tleman to think of working, he mult gowithout vi&uals, as it was not reafonabiethat the indullrious ffiould work forthe idle.Mr. Barlow and Harry went the nextmorning to work as ufual, when Tommycame to them, and defired that be alfomight have a hoe. Mr. Barlow' inffantlygave him one, and inffru&ed him how toufe it, fo that in a fhort time, he becamen good \vo:.knan, and purfued His labourwith plea'are. Thtir work being finilhedfor trliat clay, ihey all withdrew to the‘ fummer-houfe, and tlie joy of Tommyv. as inexprcfftble, when he found he wasto have his (hare of the fruit.From this time, Mr. Barlow and Histwo pupils worked every morning in thegarden,"and retired alter their labour,tothe fumnier-houfe, where they refrefhedthemfelves before dinner. By degrees.Tommy began to lament that he couldnot read, and at laft fpoke privately toHarry on the oCcafion, who very generouf-]y ^ropofed to learn him. One day, be¬ing all tlinfe a fie m bled in the fummer-houfe, and the book being given to HarryTommy faid, that, if Mr. Barlow wouldgive him permifiion, he would try to read.Mr, Barlow replied, that he fhould haveobjeclion, but he fhould as foon expertto fee him fly as to read. He then tookup the book, and with great fluencyread the {lory of the Imprudent andNegledled Fair.Having finifhed, “ I clearly fee, faidMr. Barlow, that if young gentlemenr 9 )as others; and I have no doubt, thatTommy will oi*e day become a fenfiblemanv and will hereafter be able to teachothers.”Tommy was,highly pleafed with thefepraiies, and determined to make himfelifas clever as other peopleThe next day, being all three in the ar¬bour together, Mr. Barlow defired Harryto read the flory of Anclrocles and theLion.Androcles was a Have, who was fo illtreated by his mailer, as to be forced todefert his fer.vice. Tie took refuge in avaft wood, and laid himfelf down at the. mouth of a cavern. He had not lamlong here, when an enormous lion cametowards him, uttering a kind of mourn¬ful found, as if he needed affiflance.—Androcles perceiving that he did not letdown his feet fully, bodily approachedto.vards him, and examinirfg his foot,perceive,] a large thorn flicking in it,which he immediately took out. Thelion, finding himfelf eafed, exprelled thegreatell joy.— Androcles having wander¬ed one day too far frodi the cavern, wastaken and carried to his mailer, who had( 1° )him tried, and he was condemned to beput to death, by a furious lion bei- g letloofe upon him. Androcles, on the dayfct, was then brought forth', before animmetfce number of fpe£tators ; and theden being opened, the bon burfl forthroaring like thunder; bnt judge the fur-prife, when inllead of- tearing him topieces, he lay down at his feet calm a,odpeaceable.—The multitude, amazed atthis, called on Androcles to explain thecircumftance; when he related how hehud helped the lion in his diftrefs, andthat in gratitude he had now .fpared hislife. Every one prefent was equallydelighted and allonifhed at the honeftnarrative, and applying to the governor,l Androcles was pardoned, and prefentedwith the lion, to whom he owed his life.The liory being finiined, Tommyfeemed vallly plea fed with ir, and Mr.Barlow obferved, that even the moltlavage beaft may be foitned by gvatitude,and moved by humanity.( “ )CHAP. III.To MMY and Harry went the next dayinto the garden to fow iome wheac, whichHarry had brought with him irom hisfather’s, on a piece of ground whichTommy had dug and prepared for thepurpofe. After they had finifhed theirlabour*,'they returned into the houfe, whenMr. Barlow defired Tommy to read theHUlory of the Good-natured LitrteBoy;which he accordingly did with a veryclear and diftindt voice.Tommy expreflVd great fatisfadtion atthe narrative. Mr. Barlow told him,that fince he had been fo well pleafed,Harry fhould read him the - dvemures ofan Ill-natured Boy.It was the misfortune of this boy to bebrought up under parents who took nocare of him, and as he was quarr'elfome,.he became difagreeable to every one.-—•His father on a holiday having given himbis liberty, a fixpence and 1'ome provili-ons, he took with him his dog Tiger, whoin temper resembled himfdf, and fet outon his ramble.( 12')[Here trie tale which Harry reach nar^rated the following inllances of his mlf-chievous difpofition.— Meeting a flockof Iheep, which a poor Ihepherd boy wasdriving, he fbt Tiger upon them, wh.chimmediately difperled the whole in everydirection.—Some time after, feeing a girlgive a poor woman a dr;nk of milk outof her jug, lie came behind, and gave hera pufh, which overturned the whole uponher; and then ran off laughing. — He nextjoined dome boys at play, and feizingtheir ball when it came near him, hethrew it into a muddy ditch. The littleboys ran in a hurry to find it, and asthey were Handing one behind the otheron the brink, he gave the boy furtheft be¬hind a violent pufh, and he prefling onthe refl, they all tumbled into the ditchtogether. As foon as they got out, theywere preparing to give him a f. und drub¬bing; but he got Tiger between his legs,whom he clapped on his fide?, and on thedog’s fhewing his teeth and grinning,they were afraid to proceed.— After fe-veral other tricks, which no good 'boywould have been guilty of, be came to apoor man afking charity of a lady, whogave him a few pence. He went up tohim, and told him that he would notgive him pence, but lilver; then pullingout his fixpence, threw it on the ground,and bid him take it up; but, as the poorman was (looping for that purpofe, hegave him a pulh, and the beggar fell uponhis face, when he fnatched up the fix-pence, and ran aw^y laughing.His career of wickednefs, was how¬ever, now at an end; ior obferving twoi tnen coming up to the beggar, he ran; away as fall as he could, over feveralfields. At lad he came to a farmer’sorchard, and as he was clambering overj the fence, a large dog feized him. Beingfrightened, he roared out luflily, whichbrought out the.farmer, who called offi his dog, but feized ho1 ' of the ii^y, fay-| ing, “ So, my lad, 1 have caught you atlad! You thought you might Heal myapples when you pieafeci; but you afemillaken, and you fhall now fuffer for all.” *So faying, the farmer did not let him gotill he had given him a fevere -vhipping.He now began to be fenftble, that pur-ifhment does not, fail at latl to overtakethe Wicked; but the meafure of his mif-( 14 )fortune was not yet completed. As hejumped down from a llils, he found htm-felf in the hands of the lame beggar hehad throunon his face. He cried andbegvcd pardon, but the lame man gavehim a fevere thrafhing before he let himdepart.Hs again purfued his jonrney, andfoon found himlelf furrounded by theboys he had fo ill tiled in the morning.As foon as they faw him without his dog,who had been killed by the kick of anafs which he had fet him upon, they fetup a fhout, and began to torment himdifferent ways. Some pulkd his hair,pelted him with dirt, and others fnappedtheir handkerchiefs at his legs. He en¬deavoured in vain to make his efcape.At laft, however, he happened to fee thejack-afs he had tormented in the morning,when he'fprung upon his back, hoping bythat means to efcape. The afs inllantlygalloped away with him, and foon borehim from his enemies; but the animalfull keeping his pace, in fpite of the ef¬forts of the Ill-natured Boy to preventhim, on a fudden flopped fhort at thethe door of a cottage, and then began:'3( 15 )kicking and prancing with fuch violence,that he threw the little boy from hisback, and bruife'd his leg. H:& .cries"brought out the family, among them theyoung girl whole milk he had fpilled;However, they took him in, and treatedhim kindly. He now determined, fhouldhe recover from this accident, he wouldin future ftudy to do good, and injure noperfon or animal any more.]Tommy was vaftly pleafed with thisftory, as it fliewed the difference betweenbeing good and naughty. Every oneloved and affilted the little Good naturedBoy, but every one punilhed and defptfedthe other.CHAP. IV. •Tommy and Harry having taken it intheir heads, that they would build thema houfe at the bottom of the garden,Mr. Barlow not only gave his confeut,but. went into the copi’e, to cut downpoles proper for the purpofe.m A few days after, they went to lookat the houfe. they had begun building,when they found that a hurricane, which( 16 >had happened the preceding night,- hadlevelled every Puck with the earth.The winter had now fet in with itsufual feverity, fo that the two youthswere at p-efent no louger able to ptirluetheir labours in the garden; but theynow now and then took a walk in theair. It unfortunately happened, that, inpalling t: rough a.wood, they wanderedfrom the rigitt path, and could not tellwhere they were. To add to their dif-trefs, the wind from the rforth began toblow with great fury, and lb violent afall of fnow came on,-as obliged them tofeek flicker. After remaining fome timein the hollow of a tree, the florin greatlyabated, when they begin their march, through the fnow, which had completelycovered every track, and what was wordof all, the day began to clofe. At length,however, they came to fome lighted em¬bers, which probably fome labourers hadjuft quitted. Harry then got together allthe dry pieces of wood he could find, andplacing them on the embers, they iconcaught fire, which afforded them a com¬fortable warmth.( i7 )While they were contferfing together,a little boy came alosig finging, with ahandle of Hicks cn his Hioulder, whomHarry happened to know. In fa£t, hewas the'very little rag vd boy to whomTommy had given feme clothes in theHummer. Harry inftantly fpoke to him,and defired him to fliew t^em the wayout of the wood, which he readily con-lented to, but advifed them tt> go firft tohis father’s houfe, and, while they warm¬ed themfelves, they would fend to Mr.Barlow to acquaint him where they were.The honeft farmer then went and ac¬quainted Mr. Barlow of the fafety ofnis pupiis, vvhich gave infinite fatisfac-tion fo that reverend gentleman, as hehad difpatcljed people every where inpurfuit of them.Tommy had heard Mr. Barlow give anaccount in what manner the Kamfcathamdogs drew their fledges, and he deter¬mined to make an experiment of that na¬ture. Being one day perfectly difengag-ed from bufmefs, he furnifhed himfelfwith fome rope, and a kitchen chair,which he intended to make ufe of infleadof a fledge. He then coaxed Ctefar intof IS )a large yard behind the houfe, and pla¬cing the cJiair fiat on the ground, he fall-ened the dog to it, with-great care, andno fniali fhare of ingenuity. Caefar, ho w¬ever, did,not underhand being harnefied,and was ignorr;'t of the part he was to a£f.At lail Tommy mounted his feat triumph¬antly, and with a whip in Ins hand,began his career.A number of the neighbouring littleboys gathered round the young gentleman,which made him the more anxious todif-tinguifii himfelf. Tommy began to makeufe of thefe expreffions to his dog, whichhe had heard coachmen apply to theh*horfes, and fmacked his whip with greatconfequence. Cahar was very angry atthis, and inkamly fet off at full fpeed,dragging the chair, with the driver upon it,at a prodigious rate.Tommy now looked about him with atriumphant air, and maintained his featwith great firmnefs. Unfortunately, how¬ever, at no great diflan^p was a largehorfe-pond, which gradually (helved tothe depth of three or four feet. The af-.frighted Ccefar ran thither, in hopes ofgetting, rid cf his tormentor ; while,( *9 )Tommy, in vain, endeavoured to pacify. and retrain his ftsed. Csfar, withoutpaying any regard to his driver, precipi¬tately rufhed into^he pond, and carriedboth carriage and driver into the middleof it. The boys who were fpedlators,now received frefh matter of diverfun,and, notvvithftanding their refpecl forTommy, they could not he.*p uttering loudfaouts of derifion.One day, a bull wits to be baitedin the neighbourhood of Mr. Merton’s,where Tommy had gone on a vine to hisfather, when he and ail his gay and flightycompanions hole away to fee it, and Harryrelu&antiy followed them at a diilance.While this inhuman fpectacle wasgoing forward, a poor half-naked blackcame to them, and humbly implored theircharity. Finding he could get nothingfrom them, he approached the place whereHarry flood, holding out the remains ofhis tattered hat. Harry put his handin his pocket, and gave him the onlyfixpence he had.The dogs now' attacked the bull withfuch fury, that the animal became madand outrageous. The furious animal ranV( 2i> )towards the fpot where Tommy and hisaflbciates flood, and put;them t^fligt*t;but the bull was too fwift for them, andTommy flumbling and facing to theground, lay direfllv in the way of hispurfu’ntg enemy!—Harry then catcheu upa prong, which had been drppned by oneof the fugitives, and at the v:ry infl-intthe bull was Hooping to revenge himfelfon the defencelefs Tommy, he gave hima deep wound in the flank. The animalturned round, and it is probable that hislife would have paid for the ialvation ofhis friend, had not the generous black,to whom he had juft before given fixpence,inftantl)* fled to his aftidance. With ' ja large flick he had in his^liand, he gavethe bull fo violent a blow as called e ft*his attention from .Harry. He inftantlyturned round to his new enemy, whodexteroufly fhifted from him, and got hold,of his tail, by which he held fall, and fobelaboured the bull with his Hick, that hewas at laft obliged to lie do wn, when theythrew a r >pe over his horns, and fallenedhim to a tree. fThe next day Tommy-rofe before hisfather and mother; and, as his mind was( 21 )much impreficd with the fiery read thepreceding evening, in which he had dif-covered the wonderful expl its of fomeArabian horfemen, he begged his littlehorfe might be faddled for him. He ac¬cordingly put on his boots, and* orderedWilliam to attend him. However, as hedared not alk for fpurs, he went to one ofthe maids, and got from her two largepins, which he very ingenioufly fluck intohis boots, and then mounted his horfe.He had not ridden far, before he gavehis horfe a very {harp prick with his pins.The animal fet off with him at full gallop,and William knew not whether this hid¬den Hart was from acc dent or defign.—'Seeing,.however, that the. horfe gallopedover the reugheft part of the common,while Tomm\ ufed all his efforts to flophim, he thought it prudent to endeavourto overtake hyin, and therefore purfuedhim with all poflible fpeed The racecontinued without any appearance ofabatemenf, When the po'ney turned fliorton a hidden, upon an attempt of his maf-ter to H p him, and rulhed into a quag¬mire. This- hopped him for a moment,and-gave Ton*.my an opportunity of flip-ping off his back into a foft bed of mire.The fervant had now time to get up toTommy, and refcue him from his difa-greeabie fituatjon, where he had receivedno other damage than that of daubinghis clothes.Tommy being arrived within a fkortdiftance of the houfe, met his father andMr. Barlow, who were walking to enjoythe morning air. They were furprit'edat the befpattered appearance Tommyjnade. The youth, however, withoutgiving time to make any inquiries, ranup to the gentlemen, and wifhed thema good morning. Mr. Merton was veryglad to find his fm was not hurt, for hed ubted not, from the fituation of hisclothes, that he had fallen fr m a h-rfe,which was prelently confirmed by theappearance of William, who was leadingthe poney.After dinner a very interefting con-verfation took place between Mr. Bari wand his pupil Tommy, who confeffed thathe had been a very unthinking boy.—•Mr. B.yLw told him, that t be fenli Jeof his iauli was half-way to a reformation,and therefore begged he would open his'3( 23 )mind without the leaft refefve. “ Since ,I have been at home, Sir,” faid Tommy,“ I have been furrounded by a number offine young gentlemen and ladie>, who,becaufe their parents are rich, thoughtthey had a right to defpife every one whowas poor. They were always laughingat poor Harry Sandford, and at lad broughtme to flight his company.” Tommy thenwent on to acquaint Mr. Barlow with allthe ill treatment he had been guilty ofto his friend Harry, and concluded withalking, if he thought it pcflible that E,arrywould ever forgive him.Our little gentleman here burft intoa flood of tears, and Mr. Barlow, afterhaving fuffered him to eafe his mind thatway, told him he muR a Ik Harry’s pardon.To this Tommy ccnfented, and he pro-r mifed to go direftly, and beg Harry’stjl forgivenefs. As his preceptor was nowU lenfible of his contrition, he faid he would; go td young Sandford, and hear what he. i thought of the meeting.Mr. Barlow y/aited on Har^y, andI having obtained his confent to an inter-. | view, and acquainted Tommy therewith,t they both fet out the next morning for* ( 24 )Mr. Srmdford’s. When they were withina*hu!c of the houfe, Tommy faw Harrydriving his father’s iheep home. He ranhaftily to meet him, and a reconciliationimmediately took place.Toi.imy, with the fmcerefi: gratitudeand affection, took his leave of his friendHarry, and of all the relt of the family.“ It will not be long before I lhall feeyou again,” fai£ he to Harry, “ for to |your example I owe the little good I haveto boafl of. You have made me fenfible,ho\# much better it is to be ufeful thanto be rich or fine; and that it is moreamiable to be good than great.”'Tommy and Harry then mofi; affedUon- iately embraced each ether, filed the tearof fincere friendfiiip, and then parted:when Mr. Merton conducted his fon home 11highly gratified.' ' ' J IF I N I S.FALKI: KPRINTiiD BY T JOHNSTON.