/ENTERTAININGIIIOTORYOPJ€>HM CHEAPThe Chapman |CONTAININGAbove a Hundred Merry Exploits done by himand his fellow traveller and companion, DrouthyTom, a slicked shaver.IN THREE PARTS.GLASGOW :rnrxTKfl for the booksellers.HISTORYOFJOHN CHEAP.PART I.fhe following Relation is taken from Lis ownmouth verbatim.OHN CHEAP, the chapman, was a comical,iort, thick fellow, with a broad face and a longose ; both lame and lazy, and something lecher-us among the lasses. He chose rather to sit'lie than work at any time, as he was a hater ofJard labour. No man needed offer him cheesoid bread after he cursed he would not have it;ir he would blush at bread and milk when hun-ty, as a beggar doth at a bawbee. He got thexme of John Cheap, the Chapman, by sellingrenty needles for a penny, and twa leather lacesr a farthing.I was born at the Hottom, near the Habcrt-oy Mill. My father was a Scotch Highland-1 and my mother a York-shire Wench, which) uses me to be of a mongrel kind ; I made my-f a chapman when very .young, in hopes oflino- rich when I became old.|My first journey was through Old Kilpatrick,Ijot no meat nor money until the evening I be-4gan to ask for lodging, then every wife to get iaway would either give me a cogful of kail, oipiece of cake. Well says I to myself, if thisthe way, I shall begin in the morning to asklodging, or any time when I am hungry. TbI continued going from house to house, until ibelly was like to burst, and my pockets coihold no more; at last I came to a farmer’s houbut thinking it not dark enough to prevaillodging, I sat down upon a stone at the end of Ihouse, till day light would go away; and aswas getting up to go into the house, out conthe goodwife, and sat down at the end of istone. I being at the other, there she beganlet off her water with full force, which I bwith very modestly, till near an end; then smade the wind follow with such force, as maas I thought the very stone I leaned upon!move, which made me burst out into laught#then up gets the wife and runs for it; I follouhard after into the house, and as I entereddoor, I heard the goodman saying, Ay, ay, go.wife, what’s the haste, you run sae fast.No more passed, until I addressed the goman for quarters; which he answered, ‘ indlad, we hae nae beds but three, my wife anourselves twa, and the twa bits o little aiWilly and Jenny lie in ane; the twa lads,twa servant men, Willy Black and lom I ve,n anitner; auld Maggs iny initlier, and the lasa;Jea:\ Tirrem lie thegither, and that fills them,i’.’ O but, says I, goodman, there is some oldiem fuller than others, you may let me lie with,’our mither and the lass ; I shat! lie heads anddiraws wi’ them, and keep on my breeks. Axood keep me, quo’ the lass frae a’ temptationsto sin, although thou be but a callan, heth I’llrather lie wi’ Sannock Garnor. Hout awa, quo,the auld wife, the poor lad may lie an a bottle o’Uraw beyond the fire. No, no, cries the good-wife, he’s no be here the night, or I’se no be here.Dear goodwife, said I, what ails \ou at me ! Ifou will not let me stay, you’ll not hinder me too where I please. Ay, ay, said she, gae whereirou like; then I got in beyond the fire, besidethe goodman. Now, said I goodwife, I like tobe here. A d—1 be here, and ye be here the[night, said she. Ho, ho, said I, but I’m herefirst and first corned, first served, goodwife; butf the ill thief be a friend of yours, you’ll hae room'or him too. Ye thief-like widdifu said she, are,-e evening me to be sib to the foul thief; tis weelend I am corn’d o’ gude honest folks. It maye so, goodwife, said I, but ye look rather thether way, when you would lodge the devil inour house, and ca’ out a poor chapman to die,ach a stormy night as this. What do ye say,isays she, there wasna a bonnier night since wiu-I?Gter came in than this ? O goodwife, what are y |aiiying, do ye ijo mind when you and I was ithe east end of the house, such a noise of winand water was then. A wae worth the filthbody, said she, is not that in every part ? Whaisaid the goodman; I wat weel there was nae raiwhen l came in. The wife then pushes me out Iand bolted the door behind me. Well, said I.|but I shall be through between thy mouth ancthy nose ere the morn. It being now so darkand I a stranger, could see no place to go towent into the corn yard, but finding no loos*straw, I fell a drawing one of their stacks, sheaiby sheaf, until I pulled out a threave or twoand wot into the hole myself, where I lay as warmas a pye. The goodman, on the morning, per¬ceiving the heap of corn sheaves, came runningto carry it away, and stop the hole in the stackwherein I lay with some of the sheaves, so withthe steighling of the straw, and him talking toothers, cursing the thieves who had done it, swear-;ing they had stole six sheaves of it; I then skip¬ped out of the hole, ho, ho, said I, goodman,you’re not to bury me alive in your stack : he thenbegan to chide me, vowing to keep my pack for jithe damage I had done; whereupon I took his-servants witnesses he had robbed me; when hear¬ing me urge him so, he gave me my pack again,—   —iml off 1 came to the next house, and told th6i whole of the story.After this I travelled up by the water of Clyde,tear the foot of Tintock hill, where I met with a| sweet companion, who was an older traveller thanI, and he gave me some information how to blowi:he goodwife, and sleek the goodman; with him[ kept company for two months ; and as we travel¬ed down Tweed towards the border, we bcinsr:»oth hungry, and could get nothing to buy for|he belly, we came unto a wife who had beenl[sirning, but she would give us nothing, nor sello much as one halfpenny worth of her sour milk :Sla, na, said she, I’ll neither sell butter, breadlormilk, ’tis a’ little enough to sair my ain family ;7e that’s chapman may drink water, ye dinnawork sair. Ay, but goodwife, said I, I havemen at Temple-bar, where I wras sworn ne’er to:rink water if I could get better. What do yeay, said she, about Temple-bar! a town just a-iout twa three miles and a bittock frae this; aIhief ane was to sw'ear you there, an’ it wasnauld Willy Miller the cobbler the ill thief, a nitherlinister nor a magistrate ever was in it a’. O but,rys the other lad, the Temple-bar he means byis at London. Yea, yea, lad, an’ ye be corn’d. rae Lunun ye’re little worth. London, said he,I > but at home to the place he comes from. AI ear man, quoth she, and where in the warl’ comeshe frae ? All the wav from Italv, where the Po;of Home dwells, says he. A sweet be wi‘ uquoth she, for the fouks there awa is a’ witch'and warlocks, deils, brownies, and fairies. WtI wat that’s true, said I, and that thou shaknow, thou hard hearted wretch, who would ha’people to starve, or provoke them to steal. Withat I rose, lifts twa or three long- straws, aicasting knots on them, into the byre I went, atthrows a knotted straw on every cow’s stake, sa;ing, thy days shall not be long. The wife folowed, wringing her hands, earnestly praying ftherself and all that was hers. I then came orthe door, and lifted a stone, and threw it ovtthe house, muttering some words, which I knenot myself, and concluded with these wordsthou monster, Diable, brother to Beelzebub, goof Ekron, take this wife’s kirn, butter, and millsap and substance, without and within, so tinshe may die in misery, as she would have otheito live.’The wife hearing the aforesaid sentence, clapher hands; and called out another old woman afoolish as herself, who came crying after us tcome back; back we went, where she made ueat heartily of butter and cheese ; and earnestl I5pleaded with me to go and lift my cantrips, wineI did, upon her promising never to deny a himgry traveller meat nor drink, whether they ha93ncy to pay for’t or not; ami never to serve theor with the old proverb, “ Go home to your ownrish,” but gave them less or more as you seeem in need. This she faithfully promised towhile she lived, and with milk we drank toe cow’s good health and her own, not forgettingr husband’s and the bull’s, as the one was good-m of the house, and the other of the byre ; and?ay wre came in all haste, lest some of a moreiderstanding nature should come to hear of it,id follow after us.In a few days thereafter we came to an alc-mse in a muir far distant from any other, it be-<r a sore day of wind and rain, we could notUvel, but were obliged to stay there : and the•use being very throng, we could get no bedsat the servant lass’s, which we were to have forpenny worth of pins and needles, and she waslie with her master and mistress. But as weere going to bed, in comes three Highlandovers on their way from England ; the land-rd told them that the beds were all taken upit one, that two chapmen were to lie in : one ofem swore his broad sword should fail him if auipman lay there that night. They took our:d and made us sit by the fire all night; I putt a great many peats, and when the droversere fast asleep I put on a big brass pan full ofater, and boiled their brogs therein for the spaceof half un hour, then lays them as they werlevery pair by themselves; so when they roslevery one began to chide another, saying, “ Hu Ipup, ye spewing a brogfor not one of theiwould serve a child ten years old, being so boi|e<l in. The landlord persuaded them that the ifeet were swelled with the hard travelling, beinso wet the last night, and they would go on weenough if they had travelled a mile or two. Nothe Highlandmen laughed at me the night befoiwhen they lay down in the bed I was to havebut I laughed as much to see them trot away ithe morning with boiled brogues in their hand:PART II.We again came to a place near Sutry-hihwhere the ale was good, and very civil usageand our drguth being very great, the more wdrank the better we loved it. Here we fell iicompany with a Quack Doctor, who bragged uwith bottle about for two days and two nightsonly when one fell drunk, we pushed and pricked him up with a big pin to keep him from sleeping ; he bought of our hair, and we of his drugs,—he having as much knowledge of the one as wihad of the other; only 1 was sure I had its muclas would set a whole parish to the midden oimug all at once; but the profit, though all tcI 11 •ome, went to the landlady to make up the losstf having the lime pished oif the door cheeks.But at last our money ran short, and the land-ady had no chalk or faith to credit us, seeing by.iur coats, courage, and conduct, that we wouldittle mind performance against the day of pay-pent; so that we began to turn sober and wise*>ehind the hand, and every one of us to seek sup->ly from another; and then we collected ail thenoney we had amongst us-on the table, it was?ut four pence halfpenny, which we lovingly di¬vided among us, being only three bawbees a-:dece; and as drouthy Tom’s stock and mine was.'conjunct, we gave the Quack again his sh—ngftulf and his stinking mugs, and he gave us our»;oods and pickles of hair, which we equally di¬vided betwixt us, the whole of it only came to-'ighteen shillings and sixpence prime cost, and.o we parted, I went for East Lothian and Tomor the West; but my sorting of goods being un-Jiuituble for the country, I got little or no moneyrest day ; and it being Saturday, I prevailed toret staying ima great farmer’s house, about twoniles from Haddington4, they were all at supper■'then I came in; I was ordered to go round thelervants and collect a soup out of every cog, whichvas sufficient to have served three men : the good-.vife ordered me to be laid in the barn all night,aut the bully-faced goodman swore he had too.12much stuff in it to venture ms there ; the goodv\ ife, said I should not lie in the house, for Iwould be o’er near the lasses’ bed; then the lad;swore I would not go with them, for I was a for-jesket like fellow, and who kens whether I washonest or not; he may fill his wallet wi’ our clae;and gang his wa’ or day light. At last I wasconducted out to the swine’s stye, to sleep withan old sow and seven pigs, and there I lay fortwo nights. Now I began to reflect on the sourfruits of drinking, and own all the misery just thatwas come upon me. In the night the young pigscame grunting about me very kindly, thinking Iwas some friend ot their mother’s come to visitthem ; they gave me but little rest, always com¬ing kissing me with their cold noses., which caus¬ed me to beat them off with my staft’, which madethem to make a terrible noise, so that the old mo¬ther came up to argue the matter, running uponme with open mouth, but I gave her such a routover her long snout, as caused her to roar outmurder in her own language, and alarmed theservants, who came to see what was the matter-I told them their old sow was going to swallowme up alive, hid them go and bring her meat,which they did, and the brute became peaceable.On the Sabbath morning I came into thehouse, the goodman asked me if I could shaveany: yes, said I, but never did on the sabbath13^ay, I fancy, said he, you are some WestlandWhig? Sir, said I, you may suppose me to bewhat you think proper to-day, but yesternighyou U5td me like a Tory, when you sent me intothe sty to lie in your sow’s oxter, who is a fittercompanion for a devil than any human creature;the most abominable brute upon the earth, saidI, who was forbidden to be eaten under the law,and cursed under the gospel. Be they cursed orbe they blessed, said he, I wish I had anew ofthem : but an’ ye will not take affmy beard, ye’seget nae meat here the day ; then said I, if ye willnot give me meat and drink for money, until thesabbath be past, I’ll take on my waller, and goalong with you to the kirk, and tell your minis¬ter how you used me as a hog. No, said thegood wife, you will not want your crowdle, man.But my heart being full of sorrow and revenge afew of them sufficed me, whereon I passed overthat long day, and at night went to sleep withmy old companions, which was not sound, beingafraid of mistress sow coming to revenge the quar¬rel we had the night before.On the morning I went into the house, thegoodman ordered me the pottage pot to lick ; for,says he, it is an old property of chapmen. Well,l had no sooner began to it, than out came agreat mastiff dog from below the bed, and gripsme by the breast, then turns me over upon my14back, and takes the pot himself. Ay, ay, said tk^goodman, I think your brother pot-licker andyou cannot agree about your breakfast. Well,said I, goodman, you said that pot-licking was achapman’s property, but your dog proves the con¬trary. So away I comes, and meeting the good-wife at the door, bade her farewell for ever; but jw'hat, said I, is your husband’s name ? to wrhichshe answered, John Swine: I was thinking so,said I, he has such dirty fashions; but whetherwas yon his mother or his sister I lay with thesetwo nights ?All that day I travelled the country west fromHaddington, but could get no meat; when asked ifthey had any to sell, they told me they never didsell any bread, and I found, by sad experience, ]they had none to give for nothing. I came intoa little country village, and went through it all, j >■house after house, and could get neither bread nor , tale to buy. At last I came into a poor weaver’shouse, and asked him if he would lend me a ham- -mer : Yes, said he : what are ye going to do with fit? Indeed, said I, I am going to knock out all bmy teeth with it, for I can get no bread to buy | tin all the country, for all the stores and stacks tj.you have in it. What, said he, was you in the «■minister's? I know not, said I, does he keep an hialehouse ? O no, said he, he preaches every sun- , ■day; and what does he preach? said I, is .it .to 1no charity? hate strangers? hunger the poor?eat and drink all yourselves ? better burst your! bellies than give it to beggars, or let good meatI spoil ? If your minister be as haughty as hisj people, I’m positive he’ll drive a louse to Loudonfor the hide and tallow. Here I bought theI' weaver’s dinner for twopence, and then set outagain, keeping my course tvestward It being nowij night, I came to a farmer’s house south from Dal-- kcith ; the goodman being very civil, and desirousof news, I .related the whole passages of the twodays and nights by-past, whereat he wras greatlydiverted, and said, I was the first he heard of, thatever that man gave quarters to before, though hewas an elder in the parish. So the goodman andI fell so thick, that lie ordered me to be laid ona shake-down bed by the fire, where I lay moresnug than among the swine. Now there werethree women lying in a bed in the same apart¬ment, and they not minding that I was there,first one of them rose and let her water go belowthe chimney grate, where I had a perfect view ofher bonny thing, as the coal burned so clearelyall the night; and then another rose and did thesame; last of all got op the old matron, as she[appeared to bo, like a second handed goodwife,or a whirled o’er maiden, six times overturned,and as she let her dam go, she also, with full force,U)when none, let a f—t like the blast of a trumpet,which made the ashes on the hearth stone to fly-up like dust about her buttocks, whereat I wasforced to laugh out, which made her to run for it,but to smother the laughter I stapt the blanketsin my mouth ; she went to bed and awakened theother two, saying, 0 dob [ what will I tell you?yon chapman body has seen a’ our a—ses thenight! Shame fa’ him, said they, for we had naemind he was there; I wat weel, says one of them,I’se no rise till he be a\v&’: but said the old wo¬man, gin he has seen mine, I canna help it, it’sjust like other folk’s, an’ feint a hair I care. Onthe morning the old matron got up first, and or¬dered up the house, then told me to rise now, forchapmen and every body were up; then she ask¬ed me if I hud a custom of laughing in my sleep ?Yes, said I, when I see any daft like thing I canlook and laugh at it as well sleeping as waking.A good preserve us, said she ye’r an unco body;but ye needna wait on your porridge time, I'segie you cheese and bread in your pouch; which1 willingly accepted, and away I came.Then I kept my course west by the foot ofPentland hills, where I got plenty of hair, goodand cheap, besides a great plenty of old brass,which was an excellent article to make my littlepack seem big and weighty. Then I came intoa little country villiage, and going in by the sideof a house, there was a great big cat sitting in aweaver's window, beiking herself in the sun, andwashing her face with her feet; I gave her a civilknap on the nose, which made her turn back inthrough the window, and the weaver having aplate full of hot pottage in the innerside to cool,poor baudrins ran through the middle of them,burnt her feet, and threw them on the ground ranthrough the house crying fire and murder in herown language, which caused the weary wickedwabster to come to the door, where he attackedme in a furious rage, and I, to avoid the firstshock, fled to the top of the midden, where, en~I deavouring to give me a kick, I catched him bythe foot, and tumbled him hack into the midden-dub, where both his head and shoulders went un¬der dirt and water; but before I could recover myehvand or arms, the wicked wife and her twa sonswere upon me in all quarters, the wife hung inmy hair, while the twa sons boxed me both be¬hind and before, and being thus overpowered bynumbers, I was fairly beat by this wicked webster,bis troops being so numerous.Ou the Saturday night thereafter, I was liketo be badly off for quarters, I travelled until manypeople were going to bed; but at last I came toa farmer’s house asked what they would buy, nam¬ing twenty fine things which I never had, andthen asked for quarters, which they very freely18granted, tliinking I was some genteel packman,with a rich pack ; and being weary with travelcould take but little supper ; being permitted tolie in the spence beside the goodman’s bed, thegoodwife being very hard of hearing, she thoughtthat every body was so, for when she went to bed,she cries out A h<»w hearie goodman, is na yon ajraw moderate chapman we hae here the night,he took just seven soups o’ our sowens, and thatfill’d him fu’; a’ dear Andrew man, turn ye aboutan’ tak my cauld a—se in your warm lunehoch.On the morrow I went to the kirk, with the good-man, and I missed him about the door, went intothe middle of the kirk, but could see no emptyseats but one big firm, where none sat but onewoman by herself, and so I set myself down be¬side her, not knowing where I was, until sermonwas over, when the minister began to rebuke herfor using her Merry-bit against law or license;and then she began to whinge and yowl like adog, which made me run out cursing, before theminister had given the blessing.PART III.I TRAVELLED then west by Falkirk, bythe foot of the great hills ; and one night after Ihad got lodging in a farmer’s house, there hap¬pened a contest between the goodman and hismother, he being a young man unmarried, as I/19understood, and formerly their sowens had beentoo thin ; so the goodman, being a sworn birly-an of that baronv, came to survey the sowensefore they went on the fire, and actually sworeey were o’er thin ; and she swore by her con-cience they would be thick enough, if ill handsd ill een bade avva frae them. A sweet be here,ither, said he, do you think that I’m a witch ?rVitch here, or witch there, said the wife, swear¬ing by her saul, and that was nae banning, shedid, they’ll be gude substantial meat;—a whatay you chapman? Indeed, good wife, said I, sow-Jus are but saft meat at the best, but, if you makenem thick enough, and put a good lump of but-r in them, they’ll do very well for a supper. Irow sae lad, said she, ye ha’e some sense: so thed woman put on the pot with her sowens, andent to milk the cows, leaving me to steer; theodman, her son, as soon as she went out, tookgreat cogful of water, and put it into the potnongst the sowens, and then went out of theuse and left me alone : I considering what sorta pish-the-bed supper I was to get if I staidere, thought it fit to set out, but takes up atcher of water, and fills up the pot until it wasnning over, and then takes up my pack, andmes about a mile farther that night, leaving thenest woman and her son to sup their waterytched sowens at their own pleasure.20The next little town I came to, and the veryfirst house that I entered, the wife cried out,‘ Plague on your snout, sir, ye lilthy blackguardchapman-like b h it ye are, the last time yecame here ye gart our Sandy burn the gude banekame it I gid a saxpence for in Fa’kirk, ay didye, ay, sae did ye een, and said ye wad gie himla muckle clear button to do it.’ Me, said I, Inever had ado with you a’ the days of my lifeand do not say that Sandy is mine. A wae worththe body, am I saying ye had ado wi’ me, I wad-na hae ado wi’ the like o’ you, nor I am sure withem I never saw. But what about the buttorand the bane kame, goodwife? Sannock is mthis the man ? Ay is’t, cried the boy, gie me mibutton, for I burnt the kame, and she paid m<for’t. Gae awa, sir, said I, your mother and yoiare but mocking me. It was either you or anlike you, or some other body. O goodwife, »mind who it is now ; ’twas just ane like me, whetye see the tane ye see the tither; they ca’ hirJock Jimbither. A wae worth him, quoth tinwife, if I dinna thrapple him for my gude banikame. Flow, said I, goodwife, be good, bridli.vour passion,jand buy a bane kame and colourenapkin, I’ll gie you a whaukin’ penny-worth, wigar you sing in your bed, if I should sell you thtae half and gift you the tither, and gar youfor every inch o’t sweetly or a’ he done. Hec.21mnn, said she, ye’re a hearty fallow, and I hireneed o’ a’ these things, but a bane kame i maunhue ; for our San nock’s head is a’ hotchen, and ourJohn’s is little better, for an’ let them alane butae eight days, they grow as grit as grossets. Andhere I sold a bane kame and a napkin, for shebelieved such a douse lad as I had no hand inmaking the boy burn the bone comb.The next house I came into, there was a vervlittle tailor sitting on a table, like a t—d on atrencher, with his legs plet over other, made meimagine he was a sucking three-footed tailor; firstI sold him a thimble, and ihea he wanted needleswdiich I showed him, one paper after another; helooked their eyes and trying their nibs in his sleeve,dropt the ones he thought proper on the groundbetween his feet, where he sat in a dark cornernear the fire, thinking I did not perceive him. Osaid he them needles of yours are not good, man,I’ll not buy any of them. I do not think vouneed, said I, taking them out of his hand, andlights a candle that was standing near by ; come,said I, sit about, you thieving dog, till I gatherup my needles, then gathers up ten of them.Come, said he, I’ll buy twa penny worth ofthem frae ye, I hae troubled you sae muekle ; no,said I, you lousied dog, I’ll sell you none, if there’sany on the ground, seek them up and stap themin a beast’s a—se ; but if ye were a man, I would22burn you in the fire, though it he in your ownhouse; bat as you are a poor tailor, and neithera snan nor a boy, I'll do nothing but expose youfur what you are. O dear honest chapman, criedhis wife, ye maunna do that, and I se gie youcheese and bread. No, no, you thieves, I'm fornothing but vengeance; no bribes for such. Soas I was lifting up my pack, there was a prettyblack cat which I spread my napkin over, tookthe four corners in my hand, carrying her as abundle, until I came about the middle of the town,then, provoking the dogs to au engagement withme, so that there came upon me four or five collies,then I threw the poor tailor’s cat in the midst ofthem, and a terrible battle ensued for some time,and baudrins had certainly died in the field, hadI not interposed and got her off mortally w ound¬ed. The people who saw the battle alarmed theta’lor, and he sallied out like a great champion,with his elwand in his hand. Go back, said I,you lousie dog, or I’ll tell about the needles; atwhich word he turned about. 1 travelled downthe side of a water called Avon; and as I wascoming past a mill-dam, there was a big clownishfellow lifting a pitcher of water out of the dam, sohe dipt it full and set it down on the ground,staring at me he rumbled in himself out of sighto’er head and ears, and as soon as he got out, Isaid,—Vo ho, friend, did you get the fish ? Whata fish, ye h h ? O, said I, I thought you1 seen a fish, when you jumped in to make itnp out. W hat a d 1, sir, are you mocking'?—runs round his pitcher, and gives me a kickthe a—e, so that t fell designedly on his pitch-and it tumbled down the bank and went in:es : his master and another man looking andfiling at us, the poor fellow complained of medm, but got no satisfiction.The same evening as I was going towards then of Linlithgow, I met an old crabbed fellowng upon an old giaid mare, which he alway sthrashing upon with his stick. Goode'en to, goodman, said I, are you going to the bullyour mare ? What do you say sir V they ganghe bull wi’ a cow, you brute. O y es, good-, you are right, said, I; but what dc they ca’he-beast that rides on the mare’s back t Theya cusser, sir: a well then, goode’en tc you,ter cusser. lie rides a little bit, then turnsc in a rage, saying, I say, sir, your last wordsvvaur than your firat: he comes then to ridedown, but I struck his beast on the face, andshort turn about it fell, yet, or I could getiack to the ground, he cut me on the heade first stroke; I then getting clear of theplayed it away for some time, till by blowsha face, 1 made him bleed at both mouth and; then he cried out, Chapman, we are baith1‘2-idaft, for we’ll kill ourselU and mak naething cwe hat! better ’gree: with all my heart, saidand what will you buy'? nothing but a pairbeard shears, said he, and give me them eheso I sold him a pair of B. shears, tor three lipence, and give him a needle, then parted gfriends after the battle was over.So I went to Linlithgow that night, whejmet with Drouthy Tom, my sweet and ccompanion, and here we held a most terriblecounter with the tippenny for twa nights anday ; and then we set out for Fife, on the hairder, by the way of Torryburn and Culross;came up to a parcel of women washing by ater-side, I buys one of their hair: the time Icutting it off, Tom fell a courting and kissand clapping one of them, what happened I krnot, but she cried out, Ye mislear’d filthy fallye put your hand atween my feet. Daft jtcanna ye baud your tongue when it’s yourshame "that ye speak. Filthy body, thech ipman that kissed me had a horse pack,he 11 hae naething in his Pack but aukl breihare skins, mauken skins, or ony trash thatthe bag and bears bouk, and yet he wad kisshandle me! I was made for a better fallow.FINIS,