WONDERFUL LAMP.ORtubAN EASTERN TALEiiladdin’s raiace.W)0( OF SCOTLAND rGLASGOW:l-&> sI’RINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.*4OALADDIN;OK THE\V O N D E R F U L L A M.P.Is the capital of one of the large and rich provinces of the kingdom otChina, the name of which I do not recollect, there lived a tailor whose nameaos Mustapha, without any other distinction hut that which his professionafforded him, and so poor, that he could hardly, by his daily labour, main¬tain himself and family, which consisted of a wife and son.His son, who was called Aladdin, had been brought up after a very care¬less and idle manner, and by that means had contracted many vicioushabits. He was wicked, obstinate, and disobedient to his father and mother,who, when he grew up, could not keep him within doors; but he would goout early in the morning, and stay out all day, playing in the streets andpublic places with little vagabonds of his own age.When he was old enough to learn a trade, his father, not being able toput him out to any other, took him into his own shop, and shewed himhow to use his needle: but neither good words nor the fear of chastiseincut were capable of fixing his lively genius. All that his father coulddo to keep him at home to mind .his work was in vain ; for no sooner washis back turned, but Aladdin was gone for that day. Mustapha chastisedbun, but Aladdin was incorrigible; and his father, to his great grief, wasforced to abandon him to his libertinism ; and was so much troubled at notbeing able to reclaim him, that it threw him into a fit of sickness, of whichhe died in a few months.The mother of Aladdin, finding that her sou would not follow his father’sbusiness, shut up the shop, sold oti the implements of that trade, and withthe money that she got for them, and what she could get by spinning cot¬ton, thought to maintain herself and her son.Aladdin, who was now no longer restrained by the fear of a father, andwho cared so little for his mother, that whenever she chid him he wouldfiy in her face, gave himself entirely over to dissipation, and was neverout of the streets from his companions. This course he followed till he wasfifteen years old, without giving his mind to any thing whatever, or (lit*least reflection on what would become of him. In this situation, as hewas one day playing according to custom, in t he street, with his vagabondtroop, a stranger passing by stood still to observe him.Ibis stranger was a famous magician, called by the writer of this storythe African Magician; and by that name 1 shall call him with the mor©4ALADDIN OH TDKpropriety, as he was a native of Africa, and had been but two days comefrom thence.Whether the African magician, who was a good physiognomist, hadobserved in Aladdin’s countenance something which was absolutely neces¬sary for the execution of the design became about, he inquired artfullyabout his family, who he was, and what were his inclinations; and whenhe had learned all he desired to know, he went up to him, and taking himaside from his comrades, said to him, Child, was not your father calledMustapha the tailor?—Yes, sir, answered Aladdin, but he has been deada long time.At these words, the African magician threw his arms about Aladdin’sneck, and kissed him several times with tears in his eyes. Aladdin, whoobserved his tears, asked him, What made him weep? Alas! my sou,cried the African magician with a sigh, how can I forbear? 1 am youruncle ; your good father was my own brother. 1 have been a great manyvears abroad traveling, and now I am come home with the hopes of seeinghim, you tell ir.e he is dead. I assure you it is a sensible grief to me to bodeprived of the comforts I expected. But it is some relief to my afflic¬tion, that as far as 1 can remember him, I knew you at first sight, you arebo like him; and I see I am not deceived.Aladdin, who had never heard of any brother of his father’s, stood like onestupified, till his pretended uncle pulled out two pieces of gold, and gavethem to him, bidding him run home and desire his mother to get a supperready, as lie intended to spend a few hours with his beloved sister-in-lawthat very evening. Aladdin, having pointed out thehoi&e, hastened homewith the gold and the tidings to his mother, who was no less amazed thanhimself. She had never heard her husband mention more than one bro¬ther, and that one was also a tailor, and had died before Aladdin was born.She could not, however, doubt the word of a gentleman who had sent hertwo pieces of gold ; so she went joyfully to market, where she bought ex¬cellent provisions. The magician came at the appointed time, loadedw ith wine, and all sorts of fruit which he brought for a dessert; and havingsaluted his dear sister-in-law, as he called her, made cl/.)ice of a place, andsat down, he said to Aladdin’s mother: IViy good sister, I am very muchafflicted at the hearing of my brother’s death, for whom 1 always had abrotherly love and friendship. But God be praised for all things! it is a com¬fort to me to find him again in a son, who has his most remarkable features.The African magician, perceiving that Aladdin’s mother began to weepat the remembrance of her husband, changed the discourse, and turningtowards Aladdin, asked him his name. 1 am called Aladdin, said he, Well,Aladdin, replied the magician, what business do you follow? Are you ofany trade ?At this question, Aladdin hung down his head, when his mother madeanswer, Aladdin !s an idle fellow; his father, when alive, strove all hecould to teach him his trade, but could not succeed; and since his death,notwithstanding all that 1 can say to Mm, he does nothing but idle awayhis time in the streets as you saw him, w ithout considering he is no longerfhild; audit you do not make him ashamed f>t it, and make him leaveWOMHiUlTL LIMP.5it off, 1 despair of his ever coming to any good. He knows that hisfather left him no fortune, and sees me endeavour to get bread byspinning cotton every day; for my part, 1 am resolved one of thesedays to turn him out of doors, and let him provide for himself.After, these words, Aladdin’s mother burst out into tears; and themagician said, This is not well, nephew; you must think of helpingyourself, and getting your livelihood. There are a great many sorts oftrades, consider if you have not an inclination to some of them; per¬haps you did not like your father’s trade, and would prefer another: whatthink you of keeping a shop? But finding that Aladdin returned noanswer, he said, If you like, I will take one for you, and furnish it withall kinds of fine stuff's and linens. fThis proposal greatly flattered Aladdin,who mortally hated work, and had sense enough to know that such sortsof shops were very much esteemed and frequented, and the owners hon¬oured and respected. He told the magician he had a greater inclinationto that business than to any other, and that he should be very muchobliged to him all his life for his kindness. Since tliis profession is agreeableto you, said the African magician, I will carry yon along with me to-mor¬row, and clothe you as richly and handsomely as the best merchants inthe city, and after that we will think of opening a shop as 1 mean.Aladdin’s mother, who never till then could believe that the magicianwas her husband’s brother, no longer doubted it after his promises of kind¬ness to her son. She thanked him for his good intentions; and then themagician, who saw that the night was pretty far advanced, took his leaveof the mother and son, and retired.He came again the next day, as he promised, and took Aladdin alongwith him to a great merchant, who sold all sorts of fine clothes, readymade. After choosing a suit which he liked best, the magician immedi¬ately bought it. When Aladdin found himself so handsomely equippedfrom top to toe, he returned his uncle all imaginable thanks; who, onthe other hand, promised never to forsake him, but always to take himalong with him; which he did to the most frequented places in the city.He showed him the sultan’s palace, where he had free access; and atlast brought him to his own khan or inn, where meeting with some mer¬chants he had got acquainted with since his arrival, he gave them atreat, to bring them and his pretended nephew acquainted.This treat lasted till night, when Aladdin would have taken his leave ofhis uncle to go home; but the magician would not let him go by him¬self, but conducted him safe to his mother, who, as soon as he saw himso finely dressed, was transported w ith joy, and bestowed a thousandblessings upon the magician for being at so great an expense upon herchild. Then the African magician took his leave, and retired.Aladdin rose early the next morning and dressed himself; and after hehad waited some time for his uncle, he began to be impatient, and stoodwatching for him at the door; but as soon as he perceived him coming,he told his mother, took his leave of her, and ran to meet him.The magician carressed Aladdin when became to him: Gome along, mydear child, said he, and 1 will show you fine things. Then he led him out6ALADDIN OH THEt one of the gates of the city, to some large line houses, to each of whichbelonged beautiful gardens, into which any body might go. At every househe came to, he asked Aladdin if he did not think it tine ; and Aladdinwas ready to answer when any one presented itself, crying out, Here isa finer house, uncle, than any we have seen yet. By this artifice thecunning magician got Aladdin a pretty way in the country; and as hehad a mind to carry him farther, to execute his design, he took an oppor¬tunity to sit down in one of the gardens by a fountain of clear water:Come, nephew, said he, you must be weary as well as I; let us rest our¬selves, and we shall be better able to walk.After they had sat down, the magician pulled from his girdle a handker¬chief with cakes and fruit, which he had provided on purpose. He brokea cake in two, gave one half to Aladdin, and ate the other himself; and inregard to the fruit, he left him at liberty to take which sort he liked best.When they had eaten up as much as they liked, they got up, and pursued their walk through the gardens, and by this means, the African ma¬gician drew Aladdin insensibly beyond the gardens, and crossed the coun¬try, till they almost came to the mountains.Aladdin, who had never been so far in his life before, began to find himself much tired with so long a walk, and said to the magician, Whereare we going, uncle? we have left the gardens a great way behind us,and I see nothing but mountains; if we go much farther, 1 do not knowwhether I shall be able to reach the town again. Never fear, nephew, saidthe false uncle; I will show you another garden, which surpasses allwe have yet seen; it is not far off, it is but a little step; and when wecome there, you will say that you would have been sorry to have been so nighit, and not seen it. Aladdin was soon persuaded; and the magician, tomake the way seem shorter and less fatiguing, told him a great manystories.At last they came between two mountains of moderate height, and equalsize, divided by a narrow valley which was the place where the magicianintended to bring Aladdin, to put into execution a design that had broughthim from Africa to China. We will go no farther now, said he to Aladdin;1 w'HI show you here some very extraordinary things, and what nobodyever saw before; which, when you have seen, you will thank me for: bntwhile I strike fire, do you gather up all the loose sticks you can see, tokindle a fire with.Aladdin found there so many dried sticks, that before the magician hadlighted a match, he had gathered op a great heap. The magician pre¬sently set them on fire, and when they were all in a blaze, the magicianthrew in some incense he had about him, which raised a great cloud ofsmoke, which he dispersed on each side, by pronouncing several magicalwords that Aladdin did not understand.At the same time the earth trembled a little, and opened just beforethe magician and Aladdin, and discovered a stone about half a yardsquare, laid horizontally, with a brass ring fixed into the middle of it,to raise it up oy. Aladdin was so frightened at what he saw, that hewould have run away; but the magician perceiving his design, caughtAYO.NUErUTL LAMP.?hoM of him, and gave him such a box on the ear, that he knocked himdown. Poor Aladdin got tip again trembling, and with tears in his eyes,said, What have 1 done, uncle, to be treated after this severe manner?1 have my reasons for it, replied the magician: I am your uncle, and youyou ought to make no reply; but obey me punctually, if you wouldreap the advantages which I intend you should.—These fair promisescalmed Aladdin’s fears and resentment; and when the magician saw thathe was come to himself, he said to him: Know then, that under this stonethere is hid a treasure, which will make you richer than the greatestmonarch in the world: this is so true, that no other person but yourself ispermitted to touch this stone, and to pull it up and go in; for I am for¬c'd ever to touch it, or set foot in this treasure when it is opened; so youmust w ithout fail punctually execute what 1 tell you, for it is a matterjf great consequence both to you and meAladdin, amazed at all he saw and heard the magician say of the trea¬sure, which was to make him happy for ever, forgot what was past, saidto the magician, Well, uncle, what is to be done? command me, I amready to obey you. Come, said the magician, take hold of the ring, andlift up that stone, pronounce the names of your father and grandfather,then lift it tip, and you will find it will come easily. Aladdin did as themagician bade him, and raised the stone with a great deal of ease, andlaid it on one side.When the stone was pulled up, there appeared a cavity of aboutthree or four feet deep, with a liuie door, and steps to go down lower.Observe, my son, said the African magician, what 1 am going to say toyou: go down Into that cave, and when you are at the bottom of thososteps, you will find a door open, which will lead you into a large vaultedplace, divided into three great halts, in each of which you will see fourlarge brass vessels placed on each side, full of gold and silver, but takecare you do not meddle with them. Before you go into the first hall, bf*sure to fuck up your gown, and wrap it well about you, and then gothrough the second into the third Without stopping. Above all things,have a care that you do not touch the walls, so much as with yourclothes; for if you do, you will die instantly. At the end of the thirdhall, you w ill find a door which leads into a garden planted with fine treesloaded with fruit; walk directly across the garden by a path which willlead you to five steps that will bring you upon a terrace, where you vnllsee a niche before you, and in that niche a lighted lamp. 'J ake the lampdown, and put it out; when you have thrown away the wick, and pouredout the liquor, put it in your breast, and bring it to me. Do not be afraidthat the liquor will spoil your clothes, for it is not oil, and the lamp willbe dry as soon as it is thrown out.After these words, the magician drew a ring off his finger, and piit itupon one of Aladdin’s, telling him that it was a preservative against allevil, while he observed what he had prescribed to him. After this instruc¬tion ho said, Go down boldly, child, and we shall both be rich all our live*.Aladdin jumped into the cave, went down Iho steps, and found thethree halls just as the African magician had described them.—lie wentALADDIN OR THEthrough them with all the precaution the fear of death could inspire, Ifhe failed to observe all that he was told very carefully; crossed the gardenwithout stopping, took down the lamp from the niche, threw out thewick and the liquor, and, as the magician told him, put It in his bosom.But as he came down from the terrace, seeing it was perfectly dry, heStopped in the garden to observe the fruit, which he only had a glimpse orin crossing it. All the trees were loaded with extraordinary fruit, of dif¬ferent colours on each tree: some bore fruit entirely white, and someclear and transparent as crystal; some pale red, and others deeper; somegreen, blue, and purple, and others yellow’; in short, there was fruitof all colours. The white were pearls; the clear and transparent, dia¬monds; the deep red, rubies; the paler, hallos rubies; the green, emer¬alds; the blue, turquoises; the purple, amethysts; and those that wereof yellow cast, sapphires; and so of the rest. All these fruits were solarge and beautiful, that nothing was ever seen like them.—Aladdin wasaltogether ignorant of their value, yet he was so pleased with the varietyof the colours, and the beauty and extraordinary size of the fruit, that hetilled his pockets, and two purses his uncle had given him; and as he couldnot put them in his pockets, he fastened them to his girdle.Aladdin, having thus loaded himself with riches, he returned withthe same precaution, and soon arrived at the mouth of the cave, wherethe African magician expected him with the utmost impatience. As soonns Aladdin saw him, he cried out, Pray, uncle, lend me your hand to helpme out. Give me the lamp first, replied the magician; Indeed, uncle,answered Aladdin, I cannot now The African magician was so obstinate,that he would have the lamp before he would help him up; and Alad¬din, w ho had incumbered himself so much with his fruit, that he could notwell get at it, refused to give him it till he was out of the cave. TheAfrican magician, provoked at this obstinate refusal, flew into a terriblepassion, and threw a little of his incense into the fire, and no soonerpronounced two magical words, but the stone which had closed themonth of the cave moved into its place, with the earth over if.When Aladdin found himself buried alive, he cried, and called out tohis uncle to tell him he was ready to give him the lamp ; but all in vain,since his cries could not be heard by him, and he remained in this darkabode. At last, when he had quite tired himself with crying, he went tcthe bottom of the steps, with a design to get into the garden, where it waslight; but the door, which was opened before by enchantment, was nowshut by the same means. Then he redonbled his cries and tears, and satdown on the steps, without any hopes of ever seeing the light again, andin a melancholy certainty of passing from the present darkness into thatof a speedy death.Aladdin remained in this state two days without eating, or drinking,and on the third day looked upon death as inevitable.—Clasping hishands with an entire resignation to the will of God, he said, There is nostrength or power but in the great and high God. In this action of joininghis hands, he rubbed the ring which the magician put on his finger, andimmediately a genius of an enormous size and frightful look rose out ofWONDERFUL LAMP.9the earth, and said, What wnuldst thou have with me? I am ready toohey thee as thy slave, and the slave of all who have the ring, on thyfinger; I, and the other slaves of that ring. *Aladdin, who had not been used to such visions, would have been sofrightened, that he would not have been able to speak at the sight of so ex¬traordinary a figure; but the danger he was In made him answer with¬out hesitation, Whoever thou art, deliver me from this place, if thou aitable. He had no sooner made an end of these words, but the earth open¬ed, and he found himself on the very spot where the magician firstbrought him.H was sometime before Aladdin’s eyes could bear the light, after hav¬ing been so long in total darkness; and he could not comprehend howhe had got so soon out of its bowels. He remembered the way he hadcome, and hastened back to the city, where he found his mother % thegreatest grief. The joy to see her, and his faintness for want of susten¬ance for three days, made him faint, and he remained for a long timeas dead. As soon as he recovered, the first words he spake were, Pray,mother, give me something to eat, for I have not put a morsel of anything into my mouth these three days. His mother brought what shehad, and set it before him. My son, said she, be not too eager, for itis dangerous; eat but a little at a time, and take care of yourself.Aladdin took his mother’s advice, and ate and drank moderately.When he had done, Mother, said he to her, 1 cannot help complaining ofyou, for abandoning me so easily to the discretion of a man who had adesign to kill me, and who at this very moment thinks ray death certain.Then Aladdin began to tell his mother all that happened to him fromFriday, when the magician took him to see the palaces and gardens aboutthat town, and what fell out in the way, till they came to the place be¬tween the two mountains, and his taking the wonderful lamp, which hepulled out of his bosom and showed to his mother, as w ell as the trans¬parent fruit of different colours, w hich he had gathered in the garden ashe returned, two purses full of which he gave to his mother. But, thoughthese fruits were precious stones, brilliant as the sun, and the reflection ofa lamp, which then lighted the room might have led them to think theywere of great value, she was as ignorant of their worth as her son. Shehad been bred in a middling rank of life, so that we must not wonder thatshe looked on them as things of no value, and only pleasing to the eyeby the variety of their colours.Aladdin put them behind one of the cushions of the sofa he sat upon,and continued his stoiy, telling his mother, that upon his refusal togive the magician the lamp till he had got out, the stone, by his throwing some incense into the fire, and using two or three magical words,stopped it up, and the earth closed again. When he found himself buriedalive in a dismal cave, by the touching of his ring, he, properly speak¬ing, came to life again. When he had made an end of his story, he saidto his mother, I need say no more; you know the rest.Aladdin’s mother heard with so much patience as not to interrupt him,his surprising and wonderful relation; and when Aladdin had finished10ALADDIN OR TDKhis story, sJie broke out into a thousand reproaches against that vile Kimpostor. She called <hini a perfidious traitor, barbarian, assassin, de- Hceiver, magician, and an enemy and destroyer of mankind. She said Wa great deal more against the magician’s treachery; but finding while shetalked, her son Aladdin, who had not slept for three days and nights,began to nod, she put him to bed, and soon after went to bed herself.Aladdin, who had not had one wink of sleep while he was in the sub¬terraneous abode, slept very heartily all that night, and never waked tillthe next morning; when the first thing that he said to his mother was, hewanted something to eat. Alas ! child, said she, I have not a bit of breadto give you, you ate up all the provisions 1 had in the house yesterday;but have a little patience, and it shall not be long before 1 will bringyou some: 1 have a little cotton, which I have spun ; 1 will go and sell it,and byy bread. Mother, replied Aladdin, keep your cotton against an¬other time, and give me the lamp 1 brought home yesterday; 1 wilt goand sell it, and the money I shall get for it will serve both for breakfastand dinner, and perhaps supper too.Aladdin’s mother took the lamp, and said to her son, it is very dirty; JjIf it was a little cleaner I believe it w ould bring something more. She Mtook a little fine sand to clean it; but hail no sooner begun to rub it, but In ; ian instant a hideous genius of gigantic size appeared before her, and said Hto her in a voice like thunder, What wouldst thou have? 1 am ready fcobey thee as thy slave, and the slave of all those who have that lamp intheir hands; I, and the other slaves of the lamp.Aladdin’s mother fainted away at the sight of tins frightful genius;but Aladdin, who had once before seen such another genius in thecavern, instantly, snatched the lamp out of his mother’s hands, and said,boldly, I am hungry; bring me something to eat. The genius disappearedimmediately, and hi an instant returned with a large silver basin on hishead, and twelve covered plates of the same metal, which contained someexcellent meats; six large, white loaves on two other plates, and twobottles of wine, and two silver cups in each hand. All these things heplaced upon a table, and disappeared; and all this was done beforeAladdin’s mother came out of her swoon.His mother, after she recovered, was very much surprised to see ahthese rarities. Child, said she to Aladdin, to whom are we obligedlor this great plenty and liberality ? It is no matter, mother, saidAladdin ; let us sit down and eat; and when we have done, I will tell you.Accordingly both mother and son sat down, and ate with the betterstomach, as the table was so well furnished.The mother and son sat at breakfast till it wras dinper-time, and thenthey thought it would be best to put the two meals together; yet afterthis, they found they should have enough left for supper, and twomeals for the next day.When Aladdin’s mother had taken away, and set by what was left, shewent and sat down by her son on the sofa. Aladdin, said she, I expectnow tiiat you will tell me exactly what passed between the genius andyou while 1 was in a swoon; which lie presently complied with.WONDERFUL LAMP.HShe was in as great amazement at what her son told her, us at the ap¬pearance of the genius; and said to him, how came that vile genius toaddress himself tome, and not to you, to whom he appeared before in thecave? Mother, answered Aladdin, the genius you saw is not the samewho appeared to me, though he resembles him in size. If you remember,he that 1 first saw called himself the slave of the ring on my finger; andthis you saw called himself the slave of the lamp you had in your hand: but1 believe you did not hear him, for 1 think you fainted away as soon as hebegan to speak.What! cried the mother, was your lamp then the occasion of thatcursed genius’s addressing himself rather to me than to you? Ah! myson! take it out of my sight, and put it where you please. If you wouldtake my advice, you would part also with the ring, and not have anytiling to do with genii, who, as our prophet has told us, are only devils.With your leave, mother, replied Aladdin, I shall now take care how Isell a lamp, as 1 was going to do, which may be so serviceable both to youand to me. As for the ring, I cannot resolve to part with that neither;for, without that, you had never seen me again; and if it was gone, Imight not be some moments hence; therefore 1 hope yon will give meleave and to wear it always on my finger. As Aladdin’s arguments werejust, his mother had nothing to say against them; but only replied, thatshe would have nothing to do with genii, but would wash her hands of them,and never say any thing more about them.By the next night they had eaten all the provisions the genius hadbrought; and the next day Aladdin sold one of the silver plates to a Jewwhom he met in the streets, for a piece of gold, though it was but the six¬tieth part of the worth of the plate. Aladdin took the money very eager¬ly, and, before he went home to his mother, he called at a baker’s, boughta loaf, changed his money, and went home, and gave the rest to hismother, who went and bought provisions enough to last them some time.When he had sold the last plate, he had recourse to the basin, whichhe sold also to the Jew, for ten pieces of gold. They lived on these tenpieces in a frugal manner a pretty while.When all the money was spent, Aladdin had recourse again to the lamp.He took it in his hand, looked for the same place where his mother hadrubbed it with the sand, and rubbed it also, and the genius immedi¬ately appeared, and said. What wouldst thou have? 1 am ready toobey thee as thy slave, and the slave of all those who have that lamp intheir hands; 1, and the other slaves of the lamp. I am hungry, saidAladdin; bring me something to eat. The genius disappeared, and pre¬sently returned with a basin, and the same number of covered plateaand other things, and set them down on a table, and vanished again.Aladdin’s mother, knowing what her son was going to do, went out afcthat time about some business, on purpose to avoid being in the waywhen the genius came; and when she returned, she was almost as muchsurprised as before, at the prodigious effect of the lamp. However, she satdown with her son, and when they had eaten os much as they had a mindto, efie set enough by to last them two or three days.n ALADDIN OR THLAs soon as Aladdin found that their provisions and money were dspent, he took one of these plates, and went to look lor his Jew chapmana^aiu ; and passing by a goldsmith’s shop, the goldsmith perceivinghim, called to him, and said, My lad, 1 have often observed you go by, i c‘loaded as you are at present, and talk with such a Jew, and then come |back again empty handed. 1 imagine that you carry something that ;you sell to him ; but perhaps you do not know what a rogue he is. What | -1 tell you is for your own good. If you will show me what you now ' j1carry, and if it is to be sold, 1 will give you the full worth of it; or 1 will jdirect you to other merchants who will not cheat you.The hopes of getting more money for his plate induced Aladdin to pull it j|from under his coat, and shew it to the goldsmith. The old man, who at jfirst sight saw that It was made of the finest silver, asked him if he had ‘sold any such as that to the Jew, and Aladdin told him plainly that he haa jsold him twelve such, for a piece of gold each. What a villain I cried thegoldsmith; 1 will let you see how much tne Jew has cheated you.The goldsmith took a pair of scales, weighed the plate and after he hadtola Aladdin how much an ounce of line silver was worth, he demon¬strated to him that his plate was worth by weight sixty pieces of gold,which he paid him down immediately.Though Aladdin and his mother had an inexhaustible treasure of money jin their lamp, and might have had whatever they had a mind to everytime it failed, yet they lived with the same frugality as before, exceptthat Aladdin went more neat: as for his mother, she wore no clothes butwhat she earned by her spinning cotton. They went on for many yearsby the help of the produce which Aladdin, from time to time, made of hislauil).One day, as Aladdin was walking about the town, he heard an orderof the sultan’s published, for all people to shut up their shops and houses,and keep within doors, while the princess Badroulboudour, the sultan’sdaughter, went to the baths and buck again.This public order inspired Aladdin with a great curiosity to see theprincess’s face, which he could not do without placing himself behindthe door of the bath, which was so situated that he could not fail of seeingher face.Aladdin had not waited long before the princess came, and he could seeher plainly through a chink of the door without being seen. When shecame within three or four paces from the door of the baths, she took offher veil, and gave Aladdin an opportunity of a full look at her.The princess was the most beautiful brunette in the world; her eyeswere large, lively, and sparkling; her looks sweet and modest; her nosewas of a just proportion and without a fault; her mouth small, her lipsof a vermilion red, and charmingly agreeable in symmetry; in a word,all the features of her face were perfectly regular. With all these per*factions the princess had so delicate a shape, so majestic an air, that (hesight of her was sufficient to inspire respect.After the princess had passed by Aladdin, and entered the baths, he re¬mained some time astonished, and in a kind of ecstasy, lint at last con-WONDERFUL LAWK13sideriug that the princess was gone past him, and that when she returnedfrom the hath her back would be towards him, and then veiled, he re¬solved to quit his post and go home.After supper, his mother asked him why he was so melancholy, butcould get no information, arid he determined to go to bed rather than giveher the least satisfaction. Next day, after he arose, lie told his motherall that he had done on the preceding day, to obtain a sight of the prin¬cess, and added, 1 cannot live without the possession of the amiableprincess Badroulboudour, and am resolved to ask her in marriage of thesultan her father.Aladdin’s mother listened with attention to what her son told her; butwhen he talked of asking the princess Badroulboudour in marriage of thesultan, she could not help bursting out into a loud laugh.Indeed, son, replied the mother seriously, 1 think that you have quiteforgot yourself; and if you would put this resolution of yours in execu¬tion, 1 do not see who you can get to venture to propose it for you. You,yourself, replied he immediately. 1 go to the sultan ! answered the mo¬ther, amazed and surprised. 1 shall take care how I engage in sucii anaffair. Have you forgot that your father was one of the poorest tailors inthe capital, and that I am of no better extraction ? and do not you know,that sultans never marry their daughters but to princes, sons of sultanslike themselves?Mother, answered Aladdin, I have told you that you must ask the prin¬cess Badroulboudour in marriage for me: it is a favour 1 desire of you,with ail the respect 1 owe you; and I beg of you not to refuse me.The good old woman was very much embarrassed, when she found Alad¬din so obstinately persisting in so foolisli a design. My son, said sheagain, how could so extraordinary a thought come into your head, asthat 1 should go to the sultan, and make a proposal to him, to give hisdaughter in marriage to you? Suppose I had, not to say the boldness,but the impudence to present myself before the sultan, and make so ex¬travagant a request, to whom should I address myself to be introducedtjhis majesty? Here is another reason, my son, which is, nobody evergoes to ask a favour of the sultan without a present; for by a present, theyhave this advantage, that if for some particular reasons the favour isdenied, they are sure to be heard. Hut what presents have you to make ?Therefore, reflect well on what you are about, and consider, that youaspire to a thing which is impossible for you to obtain.Aladdin heard very calmly all that his mother could say to endeavourto dissuade him from his design, and after he had weighed her repre¬sentation in all points, made answer: 1 own, mother, it is great rashnessin me to presume to carry my pretensions so far. 1 love the PrincessHadronIboudour beyond all you can imagine; and shall always perseverein my design, of marrying her. As to what you say about the present, 1agree with you, and own that 1 never thought of it; but as to what yousay that I have nothing fit to present him with, do not you think, mo¬ther, that whatl brought home with me that day on which I was deliveiedfrom an inevitable death, may be an agreeable present ? 1 mean thoso14ALADDIN OH THErliia^s yon and 1 both tooK for coloured glasses*, but now I arn undeceived,mid can tell you that they are jewels of an inestimable value, and fit forthe greatest monarchs. In short, neither you nor 1 know the value ofthem; but be it as it will, by the little experience I have, 1 am persuadedthat they will be received very favourably by the sultan: you have a»arge porcelain dish fit to hold them; fetch it, and let us see how they willlook, when we have ranged them according to their different colours.Aladdin’s mother fetched the china dish, and he took the jewels out oithe two purses, and placed them in the dish. But the brightness andlustre they had in the day-time, so dazzled the eyes both of mother andson, that they were astonished beyond measure.As it was now late, and the time of day for going to the sultan’s palacewas passed, it was put off till the next. Aladdin took a great deal ofpains to encourage his mother in the task she had undertaken to go tothe sultan; while she could not persuade herself she could ever succeed.Child, said she to Aladdin, if the sultan should think of asking me wherelie your riches and your estate, if, I say, he should ask me the question,what answer would you have me return him ?Let us not be uneasy, mother, replied Aladdin, I have thought of ananswer, and am confident that the lamp, which hath subsisted us so long,will not fail me in time of need.Aladdin’s mother could not say any thing against what her son then pro¬posed ; but reflected that the lamp might be capable of doing greater won¬ders than just providing victuals for them. But above all things, mother,said Aladdin, be sure to keep the secret, for thereou depends the successwe have to expect; and after this caution, they both parted tc go to bed.Put violent love, had so much possessed the son’s thoughts, that he couldnot rest. He rose at day-break, and went presently and awakened hismother, pressing her to get herself dressed to go to the sultan’s palace.Aladdin’s mother did all her son desired. She took the china dish, andset forwards for the sultan’s palace, to the great satisfaction of Aladdin.When she came to the gates, the grand vizier, and most distinguished lordsof the court, were just gone in ; and notwithstanding the crowd of peoplewho had business at the divan was extraordinarily great, she got into thedivan. Several causes were called, according to their order, and pleadedand adjudged, until the time the divan generally broke up, when the. sul¬tan rising, dismissed the council, and returned to his apartment, at¬tended by the grand vizier; the other viziers and ministers of statereturned, as also did all those whose business called them thither; somepleased with gaining their causes, others dissatisfied at the sentence pro¬nounced against them, and some in expectation of theirs being heard thenext sitting.Aladdin’s mother, seeing the sultan rise and retire, and all the peoplego away, judged rightly that he would not come again that day, and re¬solved to go home. When Aladdin saw her return with the present de¬signed tor the sultan, he knew not at first what to think of her success, norhad he courage enough to ask her any questions, till his mother freed himfrom his embarrassment, and told him all that had befallen her at the sul-WONDERFUL LAMP.l.r>tan’s palar^, ami added, there is no harm done; I will go again to-mor¬row ; perhaps the sultan may not be so busy.She went six times afterwards on the days appointed, with as little suc¬cess as the first time, and might have perhaps come a thousand times toas little purpose, if the sultan himself had not taken a particular noticeof her. That day at last, after the council was broke up, when the sultanwas returned to his own apartment, he said to his grand vizier, 1 havefor some time observed a certain woman, who comes constantly everyday that I go into council, and has something wrapped up in a napkin :do you know what she wants ?Sir, replied the grand vizier, who knew no more than the sultan whatshe wanted ; perhaps this woman may come to complain to your majesty,that somebody has sold her some bad flour, or some such trifling matter.The sultan was not satisfied with this answer, but replied, If this womancomes again next council-day, do not fail to call her, that I may hear w hatshe has to say.The next council-day she went to the divan, and placed herself beforethe sultan as usual; and before the grand vizier had made his report ofbusiness, the sultan perceived her, and compassionating her for havingwaited so long, he said to the vizier, Before you enter upon any business,remember the woman 1 spoke to you about; bid her come near, andh r. us hear and dispatch her business first. The grand vizier immediatelycalled the chief of the officers, and pointing to her, bid him go to that wo¬man, and tell her to come before the sultan.The chief of the officers went to Aladdin’s mother, and at a sign he gaveher, she followed him to the foot of the sultan’s throne, where he lefther, and retired to his place by the grand vizier. Aladdin’s mother,bowed her head down to the carpet, which covered the steps of the throne,ami remained in that posture till the sultan bid her rise, which she hadno sooner done, than the sultan said to her, Good w oman, 1 have observedyou to stand a long time, from the beginning to the rising of the divan;what business brings you here?At these words, Aladdin’s mother prostrated herself a second time; and .when she got up again, said, Monarch of monarchs, 1 beg of you to pardonthe boldness or rather impudence of the demand 1 am going to make,which is so uncommon, that I tremble, and am ashamed to propose it t.>my sultan. In order to give her the more freedom to explain herself,the sultan ordered every body to go out of the divan but the grand vizier,and then told her that she might speak without restraint.She then told him faithfully how Aladdin hadseen the princessBadrouIboudour, the violent love that fatal sight Had inspired him with, the de¬claration he had made to her of it when he came home, and what repre¬sentations she had made to dissuade him from a passion no less injurious,said she, to your majesty, as sultan, than to the princess your daughter.But, continued she, my son, instead of taking my advice and reflecting orhis boldness, was so obstinate as to persevere in it, and to threaten me withsome desperate act, if 1 refused to come and ask the princess in marriageot your majesty.lbALADDIN OH f 11LThe sultan hearkened to this discourse with a great deal of mildness,but before he gave her any answer, he asked her what she bad broughttied up in that napkin. She took the china dish, untied it, and presentedit to the sultan.The sultan’s amazement and surprise w ere inexpressible, when he sawso many large, beautiful, and valuable jewels collected in one dish. Afterhe had admired and handled them, one after another, he turned aboutto his grand vizier, and showing him the dish, said, Is it not worthy of theprincess my daughter? And ought I not to bestow her on one whovalues her at so great a price ?These words put the grand vizier into a strange agitation. The sultanhad some time before signified to him his intention of bestowing the prin¬cess his daughter on a sou of his; therefore, he was afraid, that the sul¬tan might change his mind. Thereupon, going to him, and whisperinghim in the ear, he said to him, Sir, I cannot but own that the present isworthy of the princess; but I beg of your majesty to grant me threemonths before you come to a resolution. I hope, before that time, myson, on whom you have had the goodness to look with a favourable eye,will be able to make a nobler present than Aladdin who is an entirestranger to your majesty.The sultan, though he was very well persuaded that it was not possiblefor the vizier to provide so considerable a present for his son to makethe princess, yet he hearkened to him, and granted him that favour.Turning about to Aladdin’s mother, he said to her, Good woman, tellyour son that 1 agree to the proposal; but I cannot many the princessmy daughter till some furniture I design for her be got ready, which can¬not be finished these three months; but at the expiration of that timecome again.Aladdin’s mother returned home much more overjoyed than she couldhave imagined, and told him all the particulars of the interview'. Aladdinthought himself the most happy of ail men, at hearing of this news.Though three months seemed an age, yet lie disposed himself to w ait withpatience. When two of the three mouths were past, his mother one even¬ing going to light the lamp, and finding no oil in the house, went out tobuy some, and when she came into the city, found a general rejoicing.Aladdin’s mother asked the oil-merchant what was the meaning of allthose doings. Whence came you, good woman, said he, that you don’tknow that the grand vizier’s son is to marry the princess Badroulbou-tfour, the sultan’s daughter to-night ?This was news enough for Aladdin’s mother. She ran till she was quiteDut -f breath home to her son, Child, cried she, you are undone! thegrand vizier’s son Is to marry the princess Badroulboudour. She then re¬lated now she had heard it. At this account, Aladdin was thunder¬struck. He bethought himself of the lamp; and went into his chamber,and took it and rubbed it in the same place as before, and immediately thegenius appeared, and said to him, What wouldst thou have? I amready to obey thee as thy slave, and the slave of all those who havethat lamp ii their hands; land the other slaves of the lamp. What 1WONDERFUL LAMP.17ask of you, said Aladdin, Is, That as soon as the bride and bridegroom areIn bed, you bring them both hither in their bed. Master, replied the gen¬ius, I will obey you.In the mean time, every thing was prepared with the greatest magnifi¬cence in the sultan’s palace to celebrate the princess’s nuptials; and theevening was spent with all the usual ceremonies and rejoicings till midnight. When the new-married couple had retired to bed, the genius tookup the bed, and transported it in an Instant into Aladdin’s chamber,where he set it down. Aladdin, did not suffer the vizier’s son to remainlong in bed with the princess. Take this new-married man, said he tothe genius, and shut him up in the house of office, and come again to-mor¬row morning after day break. The genius present took the vizier’s sonout of bed, and 'carried him in his shirt whither Aladdin bid him; andafter he had breathed upon him, which prevented his stirring, he left himthere.Great as was Aladdin’s love for the princess Badroulboudour, he did nottalk much to her when they were alone; but only said with a passionateair, Fear nothing, adorable princess; If I have been forced to come tothis extremity, it is not with any intention of affronting you, but to pre¬vent an unjust rival’s possessing you contrary to the sultan your father'spromise in favour of me.The fright and amazement of so unexpected an adventure had put herinto such a condition, that he could not get one word from her. However,he undressed himself, and got into the vizier’s son’s place, and lay withhis back to the princess, puttinga sabre between himself and her, to shewthat he deserved to be punished, if he attempted any thing against herhonour.The genius came at the hour appointed, and said to him, I am here,master; what are your commands? Go, said Aladdin, fetch the vizier’s sonout of the place where you left him, and put him into his bed again, andcarry it to the sultan’s palace. The genius did so; and as soon as he hadset down the nuptial-bed in its proper place, the sultcn opened the doorto wish her good morning. The grand vizier’s son, no sooner heard thedoor open, but he got out of bed, and ran into the wardrobe, where hehad undressed himself the night before.The sultan went to the bedside, kissed the princess between the eyes,according to custom, wishing her a good-morrow, and asked her, smilinghow she had passed the night. She only cast at him a sorrowful look ex¬pressive of great affliction or great dissatisfaction. He said a few wordsto her; but finding that he could not get a word from her, he attributed itto her modesty, and retired. Nevertheless he suspected that there wassomething extraordinary in this silence, and thereupon went imme¬diately to the sultaness’s apartment, and told her in what a state hefound the princess, and how she received him. Sir, said the sultaness,all new-married people always have a reserve about them the next day;slie will be quite another thing in two or three days time, and then shewill receive the sultan her father as she ought; but 1 will go and see her,added she; 1 am very much deceived if she receives me in the same manner.18AhADDlN OR TUBAs soon as the sultaness was dressed, she went to the princess’s apart¬ment, wished her good-morrow, and kissed her. But how great was hersurprise when she returned no answer. How conies it, child, said she,that you do not return my caresses? Come, tell me freely, and leave meno longer in a painful suspense. At last the princess broke silence with agreat sigh, and told the sultaness what had happened to her. The sultan-ess heard all the princess told her very patiently, but would not believeit. You did well, child, said she, not to speak of this to your fattier:take care not to mention it to any body; for you will certainly be thoughtmad if you talk at this rate. Madam, replied the princess, I can assureyou lam in my right senses: ask my husband, and he will tell you thesame story. I will, said the sultaness; but if he should talk in the samemanner, 1 shall not be better persuaded of the truth.Then she sent for the vizier’s son, to know of him something of what theprincess had told her; but he resolved to disguise the matter. Son-in-law,said the sultaness, are you as much infatuated as your wife? Madam,replied the vizier’s son, may 1 be so bold as to ask the reason of that ques¬tion ? Oli! that is enough, answered the sultaness; I ask no more.Aladdin never disputed but that the new-married couple were to betogether again that night, and therefore, having as great an inclinationto disturb them, he had recourse to his lamp, and when the genius ap¬peared, he said to him, the grand vizier’s son and the princess are to lietogether again to-night: go, and as soon as they are in bed, bring thebed hither.The genius obeyed Aladdin as faithfully and exactly as the day before.The sult&n was very anxious to know how she passed the second night,and therefore went into her chamber as early as the morning before. Thegrand vizier’s son no sooner heard him coining, but he jumped out ofbed, and ran hastily into the wardrobe. Well, daughter, said the sultan,are you in a better humour than you was yesterday morning? Still theprincess was silent, and the sultan perceived her to be more troubledthan before, but provoked that his daughter should conceal it, he said toher in a rage, with his sabre in his hand, Daughter, tell me what is thematter, or I will cut off your head immediately. The princess at lastbroke silence, and said with tears in her eyes, My dear father and sul¬tan, I ask your majesty’s pardon if I have offended you, and hope,that out of your goodness and clemency you will have compassion on me,when I have told you, in what a miserable condition I have spent thislast night and the night before.After this preamble, which appeased and affected the sultan, she toldhim what had happened to her in so moving a manner, that he was mostsensibly grieved. The sultan immediately felt all the extreme uneasi¬ness so surprising an adventure must have given the princess. Andas soon as he got back to his own apartment, he sent for the grand vizier.V izier, said he, have you seen your son, and has he not told vou anything ? The vizier replied, No. Then the sultan related all that the prin¬cess Badronlbondonr had told him, and afterwards said, I do not doubtbut that my daughter has fold me the truth; hut neveitHetess J shouldWONDERFUL LAMP.19be glad to. *i,ve it confirmed by your son ; therefore go and ask him howit was. The grand vizier went immediately to his son, and communi¬cated to him what the sultan had told him, and enjoined him to concealnothing from him, but to tell him the whole truth; father, replied theson, all that the princess says is true: but what she relates particularlyto myself she kuows nothing of. Then he told his father all that had be¬fallen him the last two nights, and added, I would much rather die, thanlive longer in so great an alliance, if I must undergo what 1 have al¬ready endured. Therefore, father, I beg you, by the same tehdernessyou had for me to procure me so great an honour, to get the sultan’s consent that our marriage may be declared null and void.He then left him to go and give the sultan an account of what he had toldhim, and begged of him to give his son leave to retire from the palace.The grand vizier found no great difficulty to obtain what he asked.From that instant the sultan gave orders to put a stop to all rejoicingsin the palace and town. This sudden and unexpected change gave riseboth in the city and kingdom to various speculations and inquiries; butw hat is most particular, neither the sultan nor the grand vizier had theleast thought that Aladdin had any hand in the enchantment which causedthe dissolution of the marriage. Nevertheless, Aladdin waited till thethree months were completed, and then sent his mother to the palace, toremind the sultan of his promise.Aladdin’s mother went to the palace and stood before the divan in thesame place as before. The sultan no sooner cast his eyes upon her, but hesaid, Vizier, 1 see the good woman who made me the present some monthshence; forbear your report till I have heard what she has to say. Thevizier then looking about the divan, presently perceived Aladdin’s mother,and sent the chief of the officers for her. She then came to the foot ofthe throne, and prostrated herself as usual, and when she rose up again,the sultan asked her what she would have. Sir, said she, I come to remindyou of your promise to my son Aladdin. The sultan declined giving heran answer till he had consulted his vizier. The grand vizier freely toldrhe sultan his thoughts on the matter, and said to him, In my opinion, sir,there is an infallible way for your majesty to avoid a match so disproportionable, without giving Aladdin any cause of complaint; whicnis,to set so high a value upon the princess, that were he never so rich, hecould not come up to it.The sultan approving of the grand vizier’s advice, turned about toAladdin’s mother, and said to her, Good woman, it is true sultans ought tobe as good as their words, but as 1 cannot marry her without some vaiuable consideration from your son, you may tell him, T will fulfil my proinise as soon as he shall send me forty basins of massy gold, brimful ofthe same things you have already made me a present of, and carried bythe like number of black slaves, who shall be led by as many young andhandsome well-made whiteslaves, alldreased majrni/lcentlv. Go, hastenhomo and declare my will to your son.As soon as Aladdiu received this message, he rubbed the lamp, and thegenie stood before him, whom he commanded to bring the basins of gold.20ALADDIN OR 1110tlie jewels, and Die black and white slaves, as the sultan had required; andand presently the house was filled witn this splendid train of slaves mostmagnificently dressed, bearing basins of massy gold, filled with the rarestjewels. When Aladdin’s mother came from market, where she had beenpurchasing provisions, she was in a great surprise to see so many peopleand such vast riches. As soon as she had laid them down, she was goingto pull off herveil; but Aladdin prevented her, and said, Mother,let ns loseno time: but before the sultan and the divan rise, I would have you returnto the palace, and go with this present; she stayed to ask no questions,but put herself at the head of the procession, which drew after it all theidle and curious people of the city. When she entered the divan, sheprostrated herself at the foot of the throne, and said to the sultan, Sir, myson Aladdin is sensible this present, which he has sent, your majesty, ismuch below the princess Badroulboudour’s worth; but hopes, neverthe¬less, that your majesty will accept of it with the greater confidence thathe has endeavoured to conform to the conditions you were pleased to im¬pose on him.The sultan was not able to give the least attention to this complimentof Aladdin’s mother. The moment he cast his eyes on the forty basins,brimful of the most precious, brilliant, and beautiful jewels he had everseen, and the fourscore slaves, who appeared, by the comeliness of theirpersons, and the richness and magnificence of their dress, like so manykings, he was so struck, that he could not recover from his admira¬tion ! At length he said to her, Good woman, go and tell your son that 1w ait to receive him with open arms and embrace him; and the more hastehe makes to come and receive the princess my daughter from my hands,the greater pleasure he will do me.When Aladdin’s mother got home, and related the success of hetmission to her son, he made her very little reply, but retired to his cham¬ber. There, after he had rubbed ins lamp, the obedient genius appeared.Genius, said Aladdin, 1 want to bathe immediately; no sooner were thewords out of his mouth, but the genius transported him into a bath of thefinest marble of all sorts of colours; where he was undressed and put intoa bath. After he had passed through several degrees of heat, he cameout, quite a different man from what he was before. The genius thendressed him in the most sumptuous apparel; and when he had done,transported him back to his own chamber, where he asked him if he hadany other commands? Yes, answered Aladdin; I expect you shouldbring me as soon as possible a horse, that surpasses in beauty and good¬ness the best In the sultan’s stables, with a saddle, bridle, and housing, andother accoutrements worth a million of money. 1 want also twenty slaves,as richly clothed as those who carried the present to the sultan, to walkby my side, and follow me, and twenty more such to go before me in tworanks. Besides these, bring my mother six women slaves to wait on her, asrichly dressed, at least as any of the princess’s, each loaded w ith a com¬plete suit fit for any sultaness. 1 want also ten thousand pieces of goldin ten purses. Go, and make haste. As soon as Aladdin had given theseorders, thegenius disappeared, and presently returned with the horse, theWONDERFUL LAMP.21forty slaves, ten of whom carried each a purse, with one thousand piecesof gold, and six women slaves, each carrying on her head a different, dressfor Aladdin’s mother, wrapped up in a piece of silver stuff, and presentedthem all to Aladdin.Of the ten purses Aladdin took but four, which he gave to his mother,the other six he left in the hands of the slaves who brought them, withan order to throw them by handfuls among the people as they went tothe sultan’s palace. Afterwards he presented the six women slaves to hismother, telling her they were her slaves, and that the dresses they hadbrought were for her use.When Aladdin had thus settled matters, he immediately mounted hishorse, and rode to the sultan’s palace, where every thing was prepared forhis reception; and as soon as the sultan perceived Aladdin, he was no lesssurprised to see him more richly and magnificently clothed than everhe had been himself, than surprised at his good mien, fine shape, and acertain air of unexpected grandeur. But notwithstanding, his amazementand surprise did not hinder him from rising off his throne, and descend¬ing two or three steps quick enough to prevent Aladdin’s throwing him¬self at his feet. He embraced him with all the demonstrations of friend-•hip. They conversed together some hours, and the sultan was so charmedwith his good sense and modesty, that he sent for the chief judge of hiscapital, and ordered him to draw up immediately a contract of marriagebetween the princess Badroulboudour his daughter, and Aladdin.When it had been drawn up in all the requisite forms, the sultan askedAladdin if he would stay in the palace*, and solemnize the ceremonies ofthe marriage that day. To which he answered, Sir, though great is myimpatience to enjoy your majesty’s goodness, yet I beg of you to give meleave to defer it till I have built a palace tit to receive the princess in; Itherefore desire you to grant me a convenient spot of ground near yourpalace. The sultan readily agreed to this proposal, and they separated.When the sultan arose the next morning, how great was his amazementto behold, opposite to his ow n, a palace of the purest architecture, andhalf the inhabitants of the city already gathered in crow ds to gaze on thiswonder! He was presently informed that Aladdin waited to conduct hismajesty to the new' palace. The sultan wras more and more amazed atevery step; for the walls were built *>f wedges of gold and silver, and theornaments were of jasper, agate, and porphyry, intermixed with dia¬monds, rubies, emeralds, amethysts, and every thing that was most rareand beautiful. The treasury was full of gold, and the offices filled w ifbdome-tics; the stables contained the finest horses and carriages, withgrooms and equerries in splendid liveries.Aladdin and the princess were speedily married, and lived for some timevery happily ; but the fame of his magnificence having reached the Afri¬can magician in Africa, whither, after his expedition, he returned: andthough he was almost persuaded that Aladdin died miserably in thesubterraneous abode where he left him, yet he had the curiosity to in¬form himself about his end with great certainty; and as he was a gco-mancer, he took out of a cupboard a square covered box, which he made3KALADDIN OK THfcuse of in hia geomantic observations, then sat Min seif down on his sofa,set it before him, and uncovered it. After lie had prepared and levelledthe sand which was in it, with an intention to discover whether or notAladdin died in the subterraneous abode, he cast the points, drew thefigures, and formed a horoscope, by which, when he came to examine itlie found that Aladdin lived splendidly, was very rich, had married a prin¬cess, and was very much honoured and respected.The magician no sooner understood by the rules of Ins diabolical art thatAladdin had arrived at that height of good fortune, but he cried out in •'rage, This poor sorry tailor’s son has discovered the secret and virtue othe lamp! But 1 will prevent his enjoying it long, or perish in the attempt. He was not a great while deliberating on what he should do, butthe next morning mounted a barb which was in his stable, set forwards,and never stopped but just to refresh himself ami horse, till he arrived atthe capital of China. His first object was to enquire what people said ofAladdin; and, taking a walk through the town, he went to where peo¬ple of the best distinction met to drink a certain warm liquor. As soonas he sat down, he was presented with a glass of it, which he took; but,listening at the same time to the discourse of the company on each sideof him, lie heard them talking of Aladdin’s palace. When he haddrank oil'his glass, he joined them; arid, asked them particularly whatpalace that was they spoke so advantageously of. From whence come you rsaid the person to whom he addressed himself: you must certainly be astranger, not to have seen or heard talk of prince Aladdin’s palace ;forgive ray ignorance, replied the African magician ; I arrived here bidyesterday, and came from the farthest part of Africa, where the fame olthis palace had not reached when I came away: but my impatience is scgreat, I will go Immediately and see it, if you w ill do me the favour to showme the way thither.The person to whom the African magician addressed himself took apleasure in showing him the way to Aladdin’s palace, and he got up, andwent thither instantly. When he came to the palace, and examined ifon all sides, he doubted not but that Aladdin had made use of the lampto build it. He knew that none but the genii, the slaves of the lamp, couldhave performed such wonders; and, piqued to the quick at Aladdin’shappiness and greatness, he returned to the khan where he lodged. Thenext thing was to know where the lamp was. As soon as he entered hislodging, he took his square box of sand, and after he had performed someoperations, he knew that the lamp was In Aladdin’s palace; and so great« as his joy at the discovery, that he could hardly contain himself. Well,said he, I shall have the lamp, and 1 defy Aladdin’s preventing my carryiug it off. It was Aladdin’s misfortune at that time to be gone a huntingfor eight days, of which only three w ere expired, which the magician cameto know by this means. After he had performed this operation, he went tothe master of the khan, entered into discourse with him on different mat¬ters, and, among the rest, said, i shall not be easy till I have seen theperson to whom this wonderful edifice belongs. Tbat will be no difficultinattfer, replied the master of the khan ; there is not a day passes but he\V 0 N D E K 1’’ U L L A M P.gives an opportunity when he is tn town, but at present he is not al home,and has been gone these three days on a hnnting-ir.atch, which will lasteight. The magician wanted to know no more : he took his leave of themaster of the khan, and went to a maker and seller of lamps, and askedfor a dozen of copper lamps, which he got, and paid the man his full pricefor them, put them into a basket, then went directly to Aladdin’s palace;and when he came near it, he began crying. Who will change old lampsfor new ones ? As he went along, he repeated this so often, that the prin¬cess hearing a man cry something, and not being able to dlsthiguish hiswords, by reason of the hooting of the children, sent one of her womenslaves down to know what he cried. The slave returned, laughihg soheartily, that the princess could not forbear herself. Weil, giggler, saidthe princess, will you tell me what you laugh at ? Madam, answered thoslave, laughing still, who can forbear laughing to see a fool, with a basketon his ami, full of fine new lamps, ask to change them ail for old ones?Another woman slave hearing this, said, there is an old one upon thocomice, and whoever owns it w ill not be sorry to find a new one In its stead.The lamp this slave spoke of was Aladdin’s wonderful lamp, which he hadlaid upon the cornice before he went a hunting. The princess bid aeunuch take it, and go and make the exchange. The eunuch no soonergot to the palace gates, but he saw the African magician, called to him,and showing him the old lamp, said to him, Give me a new lamp for tin '.The magician never doubted but this was the lamp he wanted.snatched it eagerly out of the eunuch’s hand, and, thrusting it as far as becould into his breast, offered him his basket, and bid him choose whichlie liked best. The eunuch picked out one, and carried it to the princess;the African magician then v ent and passed the remainder of the day in alonely place, till the darkest time of night, when ho pulled the lamp outto his breast and rubbed it. At that summons the ‘genius appeared, andsaid, What wouldst thou have? 1 command thee, replied the magician,to transport me immediately, and Aladdin’s paiace to such a place inAfrica. The genius made no reply, but transported him and the palaceemtire Immediately to the place he appointed in Africa.The confusion and grief of the sultan were indescribable, when he foundthe palace Vanished and his daughter lost; and Aladdin, who had just re¬turned from hunting, on hearing that his palace and his wife were gone,fainted away; but on recovering he began to reflect on the virtues of thering which he still wore on his finger.—So lie rubbed the gem, and thegenius appeared, and said, what wouldst thou have ? Oh, powerful genie!cried he, bring my palace back to the place where it first stood. Whatyou command me, answered the genius, Is not in my power; 1 am only thehlave of tho ring; you must address yourself to the slave of the lamp. Ifit be so, replied Aladdin, 1 command thee to transport me to theplace whereit now stands, and set me down under the princess ftadroiilboridour’s w in¬dow. The genius immediately transported him Into Africa, to the midstof a largemeadow, where his palace stood, a small distance from a greatcity. Aladdin sat dowm at the foot of a large tree to rest himself, but notbeing able to resist the drowsiness which came upon him, fell fast asleep.21ALADDIN kc.'Ihe next morning lie got up, and walked some time under her window*The princess Badroulboiidour, by chance, rose early that morning, and be¬gan to dress, when one of the women looking through the window, per¬ceived Aladdin, and presently run and told her mistress. The princess wentthat moment herself to the window, and seeing Aladdin, Immediatelyopened it. The noise made Aladdin turn his head that way, who, know¬ing the princess, saluted her with an air that expressed his joy. To lo^eno time, said she to him, I have sent to have the private door opened;enter, and come, up ; she then shut the window.The private door was soon opened, and Aladdin was conducted up intothe. princess’s chamber. After their embracings, Aladdin said, I beg ofyou, princess, to tell me, what is become of an old lamp which I leftupon the cornice in the hall of the four-and twenty w indows, before 1 wentto hunting. Then the princess gave Aladdin an account how she changedthe old lamp for a new one; and how she had been transported thither bythe African magician. Princess, said Aladdin, I desire you to tell me whathe lias done with the lamp. He carries it carefully w rapt up in his bosom,said the princess. After some consideration, Aladdin concerted a plan inorder to get possession of the lamp; lie. went into the city in the disguiseof a slave, where he procured a powder, that, on being swallowed, wouldinstantly cause a deathlike sleep, and the princess invited the magician tosup with her. As she had never been so polite to him before, he was quitedelighted with her kindness; and while they were at table, she ordered aslave to bring two cups of w ine which she had herself prepared, and afterpretending to taste the one she held in her hand, she asked the magician tochange cups, as was the custom between lovers in China. He joyfully seizedthe goblet, aud drinking it all at a draught, fell lifeless on the floor.Aladdin was at hand to snatch the lamp from his bosom, and throwingthe traitor out upon the grass of the meadow, the genius was summoned,and instantly the princess, the palace, and all that it contained, were trans¬ported to *heir original station in China.The very morning of the return of Aladdin’* palace, the sultan wentinto his closet to indulge his sorrows. He cast his eyes in a melancholymanner towards the place where he remembered the palace once stood, ex¬pecting only to see an open space; but perceiving that vacancy tilled up,he at first imagined it to lie the effect of a fog: but looking more atten¬tively, he was convinced that it was his son-in-law’s palace. He returnedimmediately into his apartment, and ordered a horse to be saddled andbrought to him in all haste, which he mounted that instant, and rode toAladdin’s palace. Aladdin perceiving the sultan coming, hastened to re¬ceive him at the foot ot the great staircase, and to help him to dismount.After dismounting, Aladdin led the sultan into the princess’s apartment.The sultan embraced her with his face bathed in tears of joy; and alterthat commanded a feast of ten days to he proclaimed for joy of their return.Within a few years afterwards the sultau died, and the princess suc¬ceeded him, and they both reigned together imuiy years,and left a uumoc-ous and illustrious posterity brnind then..KI N 1 «