jack and the Giants,IN ALL ITS PARTS.COICTAlSllfC,I. 'Jack t Birib and Parentage, bis Disputewith a Country Vicar, &cII. Hem rievi a monstrous Giant on tic Mountof Cornwall, ana got tke name pj Jack theGiant-KMer.III. How King Arthur's Son met with Jack,and the monderjul Things they performeaintheir Travels.IV. Horn Jack faved bis Master*s life, and drovethe evil spirit out of a Lady, i<c.V. With a full account of bis victorious Con¬quests over the north country Giants bowoe d strayed the enchanted Castle keptby Goli gantus, disferjed the fiery Gnjfins,pnt she Lor jurat to flight, n L-cned man\ La¬dies and Kngbts, likewise a D ke s • augtr-ter whom be ajtermards mqrrtfd-—vstthmany more of bis AdventuresPrinted by J. Worrett Cewg .sc,^ OF SCOTLAND rjft I ST O ftVT H EorJACK and the gi \nts.QJhis Birth mid Parentage, and what pasie^between him and tie Country Vicar, Sic.IN the reignof Kin?, <\RTiiua near the Laudsend of, England, nam, ly in the county ofCorn va 1 there lived a wealthy former* whohad one only fon, edmmorit known by the name ,of 'jack He was brilk, rn l of a Hv ly ready jwit: fo that whatever he could'not perform byftrqngth* hecomplettd by ingenious wit r d po¬licy; never was any perfon heard of that couldword him, nay, the very learned, many time,,he baffl-.a by hi, cunning, fliarp, and ready in¬ventionsBor instance, when he was no more thanfevep years of age, his father the former lenthim'into the field to look after hi* oxen, whichwere the) feedih^ in a pleafant pafture A coun¬try vicar, by,chance one day, com mg ^crofs thefield, called Jack and afk«<i him feveral queftior* *iti particular ho^ many conunamlmtnts there,were ? J ,ck told him there were nine- The { ar-4jfon replied, there are ten Nay quot‘> jack,■after parfonwou are out of that ;_it is true theywere ten, but \ du brdkeoVie of them ith your«wn maid arge y Fhr plrton rcpled, thoaart an arch wag’Jack. Well, mailer pari on•noth Jack, you haVe diked me one qutftioiyand 1 ..v. uTwered it; l btfteeh yw 1 t mea At you another. Who soade tihefe oxe«i ThePART TiTHE HISTORY OK he. 3par Tor replied, God made then child. You ateout again quoth Jack, for God made them SuUs»but my father and his man * lobfon, made oxenof them Thefe were tb witty exploits of J ack.The parfon finding himfelf fool’d, trudg’d away,leaving Jack in,a fit ®f laughter.How a Giant inhabited the Mount of Cornwallandfpoilad the country thereabout. ■TN thoie days, the mount of Cornwall was kept* by a huge and monftrous.. giant, of twenty-fe-Ven.feet in height, and about three yards incompas of.a fieice gi im countenance, to the ter¬ror of all the neighbouring towns and villages.His haoitation was a cave in the raid'd of themount, neither would he fuffer any living crea¬ture to inhabit netr him; his feeding was uf»onother men Seattle, which often became his prey,for wh nfoeyer he had occafion tor foed, hewould wade over the main land where he wouldfurnilh himfelf with whatever he could find.—For the people at his approach, void 1 fo 'faketheir habiiatio s! t! en would he feize upontheir cow* and oxe'i. of which he would thinknothing to carr y over on his back half a dozenat 4 time ; and ns for the Hut p and hogs, hewould tie them round his waitf like a bunch ofof bandolier*. This he had for many yearsj rac-tifed in Cornwall, which was very much impo-Verifhed by him.But one day J ck coming to the town-hall,when the magiltrates were'futing in confterBft-tionabvut the gian;, he aked them what re-#ward they would give to aiiyperfon that woulddeilroyhim? They anfwered,l\e (hon’d naveall the giant’s treafure in re c«mpence. QuothJaek, then I myfelf wUI undertake the work-THE HISTORY OF//oto Jack slew this Giant, ana got the nevie ofJack the Giant-kdtcr.JACK having undertaken this tslk, he fusinilhccl himi’elf with a horn a (hovel and cpick axes and over to the mount he «oes. in thbeginning of a dark winter, evening, where hefell to work, and before morning had digged apit, and covered thefame over with long (ticksand ftraw, then ftrovred a little of the mould up¬on it fo that it appeared likr the plain ground.Thii done, Jack places himlelf on ch* contra-ryfi e of the pi , juft about the dawning of theday, when putting his h»rn to his mouth, hethen blew um fntv/e tem twivie Which unex¬pected rwifcrcas dthe giant, who came roaringtowards Jack «ry ingout, you incorngible vdlam.are vou come hither to diilurb tn\ relt; you IhsiUpay dearly for it; fatisfao i >n I Ihall have andjr (ball be this ; I will t«kt you wholly and brodyou for my breakfaft—which words were nofooner qui of his mouth, but he tumbled head¬long into the dtep pit, whofe heavy fall madethe vtry foundation of the mount to (bake,Ch ! giant where -re you now ? faith, you arerot into ( ob’s Pond, where i {hall plague youfor your tbreaming words What do you thinknow ot broiling me for your breakfaft? will noother diet lei ve you bat poor Jack ? Thus hav¬ing tantallia’d the giant for a while, he ^ve »iIJs weighty knock upon the crown ot the headwith his pick axe. fo that he immediately tum¬bled down, gave amoft dreadful gmaflend died.This done, Jack threw the earth upon him andfo hurried him; then going and fearchmg '•*csste he found a great quantity oftrealure, _Aow when the magillrate. who employed hmjhea-d that it was over, they f- t for bim anddeclared, that he ihouldbe thenceforth calledJACK AND THE GIANTS. *Jack the-giant killer. And in Xsnour tliercaf*they ptefented him with a fword, together witha^iine rich erabroitlijred belt, on which thefeword* wtre wrote in letter* of gold.Here's the ri?bt valiant Cornijb man,•aibo sicv) sbet-iant CatmiUon»How Jack white asleep, was tahen by a g-cntsand bow be got bis liberty again.HTHE news of Jack s victory was foo» fp- eadover all the wefh rn pirts; when anotherhuge giant named T5lunderboai, hearing of it,vowed to be revenged on Jack, if ever it washis fortune to meet with him. t h s giant keptan enchanted cal 1c, fmiated in the midit of aloneforne wood Now Jack, shout four monthsafter, wa.'kingrn the borders of the faid v/cod,on hi* journey towards Wales, grew very wes-ry, snd therefore fat hitnfelf down by the fideof a ple Tant fountaii?, where a deep fleep fad.denly feiaed kirn t at which tiret th-; g a-'t com¬ing thither for water, found him and by thelines written on his belt, knew hmr to be Jackthat killed his brother glint, and therefore with ¬out making any words, he threw him upon hisback, to carry him to his enchanted caitle.Now as they pafsed thro' a thicket, the rut-flin^ of the boughs awaked poor Jack, who find-ir.o himfelf in the dutches of the i..iant, was fud-denly lurprifed, but it was but the beginning ofbis terrors; for, at the entering within the ftiftwahs of the cattle, he beheld the ground all co¬vered with boots and fknlls of dead men ; thegiant telling Jack, that his bones would enlargethe number that he faw. This (aid, he broughthim into a parlour, where he beheld Thebloody quarter* of fome who were lately (lainand in tue next room were many hearts a»d U*I■iti6 Ti'S HISTORY OKvers, which the gigni;, to terrify Jack told hi?H,« That mens heart* end livers were thq. chpifeft©f his diet, for he cornnionly (as he futd) ate then*with pepper and vinepar, adcliag, that i t did** fiot queflion but In? heart wo*lcf'mahe him a*• dainty bit.” This (aid, he locks poor jack inan upper foopt leaving him there, while he wentto fetch.sutother giant living in the fame wood,that he might be partaker in the pleafure whichthey would have in the ckfructlo^ of poor Jack,c Now, while he was gone dreadful (brinks andcries affrighted Jack, elpeclally a voice whichcontiRualiy cried,Da tvibar. you can to get av:x'\Or you ll become the giant 's prey ,tie's gone to fetch bis broiler w.boWifi hkenuife kill av.d torture you*Thh dreadful noile fo amazed poor Jack, thathe was ready to run deftracted, then feeingfromthe wiwlpw afar off the two giants coDUUir. thi¬ther, now ouoth Jack to himself, say death ordeliverraict: is at hand^"fhere w*a ’ ffrong cordfirt'the room by hi»*of which He takes two, at the end .of which; homakes a noopi, and while the'grant v.-^s uclock-ifigjh^ iron'gatte, he threw the ropes ©v^r each0,f their heads, and ihvh drawing the, other.end ~.j, ahrois the beam, rhea be pulled, with adhisr main ftrength,' until he had throntled- them; and •" then fanning the'rope to the beam, tarniugjto- ;wards the window, w'hile he beheld.the two-pj-ants to be black ia their hets; tb^n.Hiding 4pwnby thckjope lie ctttiz clofer to heir heads, w herethe hetprfeGi giants could not defend themlelyes, '• and drawing edi his fword, flew them both,-,enddelivered btnd'elf from their intended cruelty.Then taltLn?, the bunch of keys, he unlocked the vrooms where, upon a Uriel fesrch, he foundJ ,\CK V D <'!!£. G l A'\ V % 7three fair ladies, tie:l by the kair of Vheir '-e.i.Is, ialmoft.ftarved to death, whot idtjack; th ■“ »;ieir (husbvmds. were slain bv the giant, ai)d thst.theywere kept m my days v;i'bout food, m order toforce them to fe?d upon the flefli.of xhcir huc-bands, which they cccld net, though they fnoulc' (be ftarved to death. ^ .Svve-.t ladies, queth Jack. I havejdeftroysdthis monfter and his brutiih brother, by whichI have ©btainded your liberties'. This laid, -hepretented them with the keys of the caftle, andfo proceeded on his journey to V/aks.Mow Jack travelled into Flintshire, and vtbaihappened.J\CK having but very little money, though'.it prudent to make the bed of hi* w;y by tra¬velling as faft m he could;' but lofir.j Ms road,was benighted, and could not a place of en¬tertainment, until he came to a valley placedbetween two hills, where flood a large houl'e ina lonefoats plsce, and by reafon cf bis prefectcondition, he^took* «o«rag« to knot'-- the gat?,, and to his furprife there came, forth a moruftrous giant having twoheads, yet he diet not teemfo fiery j>3 the others hadbseny for he was aWelch giant, and what he did was by privateand fecret malice, under the falfe fliow of friend-fltip; Jack telling his condition, he bid him wel¬come. fhovving him a room and a bed in it,whereupon be might tike this nights repofe—Therefore Jack undrefaed himfelf, and as the'*giant was walking to another apartmentheard him mutter to himielf thefe words:—*lhd> here yon -lodge with me this nigbt,Ton shall not See :sie mtrmng light,My club shall dash your brains out right.Say’tf thou fa, quoth Jack, that is like ore c"$ THE HISTORY OFyour Welfh tricks, yet I hope to be conning; e-nough for you. Then getting out of bert jbe puts abillet in his ftead, an4 biiJ himfelf in a corner ofthe room, and in the dead of the night the gianto*me vith hi* great kbotty club an ', ftru-V fe»▼eral weighty bio*'* upon the bed where Jackhad been lying, and then returne i to his us ownchamber supjwnng he had aroke -jll the buns*in his body.In the morning J gsv* him hea>-ty thank*ibr hn Udging. The g o <a:d tofciw how haveyou refted ? did yon no- feel footethl g in thenight? nothing quoth hi*, a rat which aveKe three or four .dap* whliher t il. Soon afterthe giant arofe and went to orcakfaft with a bowloi hady pudding containing new four ^alloes,giving J idl the ii - e quantity, w 10 beinv loth tolet the giant know he could nut eai with him,got a iarg< leatue n hag. putting it Tcty attM-}v under hi* kof. coat, nto which Ite fe rrtlyconveyed hu pudding, telling the giant ke couliaic«r him a t ick then taking a large knife, heript oper tlic bag, which the giant funpofed tobe his'ttlly, when out c»»e the patiding* thenthe Wekh j.iant cried aut, Got's pluf hur condo d-vt trick hut fclf. Hien takinghis lliarp knife,ar- ript up hit own befly from the bottom to thetop, and oat dropi bi» trips* and trotty big.-,id that hurf-ILdowa for dead: thi* jack outwit¬ted the tftant, acid proceeded on hi* journey.How King Arthur's Son going t&feek bis For-tune, met tuitb yack, kc.KING Arthur* {bn only ilchred of l i« fatherto furniilt hi» with • certain turn »jfmoney, ;h the might go and fecit hi#fortune in the principa¬lity of .Vales, where a beautiful lad) ’ired whohe heard 'V. s pofsefsed with fever, evil-ipuits ibut tU hi* advifed him aga^ft rk.JCK i <>IANTS. •yet he would not be perfuaded agabft it fo tinthe granted what he requdled, ^teh wai »nehorfe loaded with money, and another fo him-Jelf to ride on; thu» he went forth without any?.;tendant*. , , _ivow alter fevercl day* travel he came to a(mall marktf town in «a larae concoune of people gathered tegeth ,the ki<« fon demanded the re-don of it, andwas told, that they arrefted a corpfe for manylarge fums of money, which the deceafed owedwhei.he died. "She king’s fon replied, “it is a pity“ that creditor. Humid be fo cruel; gotury thei« dead, faid he, and let hissed .tors come to my*< lodging, and ther debts Hiall be discharged,Accordingly they cam*, and in fuchbvs, that bsfore night he had altaoll it ft hmufelf moneylef*. . , ,, ' Now Jack the giant killer being there, andfeeing the ger.eroCty of the kings fon he was ta¬ken wuh him, and defired to be his Servant » *twas agned upon,end the naxt morning they letforward, when riding out at the town-end, anold woman called ahee him. crying, “ He hath•• owed me twopence thefe five years ; pray far,“ nav me as well as the reft,” He put hi. hand[ into hi* r^ket and gave it her, it bCmf? the lalthe had left: the king's fon tiriung to )* s fod,I cannot tell how 1 will fulfill m my mtencedjourney. For that, quoth jack, take r.o thoughtnor care, let me alone, 1 warrant you we willn0™Jack having a Imall fpelHn his pocket,which ferved at noon for refrefoment, when donethey had not one penny 1ft 1 etwixt them; theafternoon they fpent in travel and tame liar vis-courle, until the fun b“gan to grow low, ^ whichtime the king’s fon find, Jack, fince we have no!• THE HISTORY orftio»ev,'•where ean we think t» lodge thia night t}ac!< replied, mn^er, well o well enough; fori J Rve an uncle lives within two little pii'esofhe's ahuge and monflrous giant with threereads • he’i! fight five hundred.mes in armour,nnrj make them o fl;; before him iVlas^iuoththe king’s Ton, whatihaH we do there ? heqfcer-?a>r,!y cKopss both up at one mauthfuJ! nay,we are fearce enough to fi.l one *f hi* hollow-teeth/ It is no matter far that quoth jack, my_felt will go before, and pr ;pare the way for you;therefore tarry here and wait my. return.. w a^!;8’ arid jack ride? full Ipeed,yvhon com¬ing to the gate of the daftle. he knocked withfuch a force, that he nosde a!l the neighbouring«i!Js f© refeend. The giant with a. voice likethunder roared out vboy there? He aofwered,none but your poor coufin jack. Quoth he, whatnews with my poor coufin Jack ? He replisft,near jihdle, heavy news, Gad wot. Prithee,What heavy news ean come, to me ? I am a gi¬ant wit!: three i.eadi, and befide* thou knowsftI can fight five hundred men in armour, andrnake them fly like chaff before she wind- Oh Ihut qr.eth Jack, here is^e king’s fon comingwith-a thoufar.d nfen in armour to kin you, andfo to dfltroy all th&tyou hsve. Oh! coufia Jack,this is h. avy news indeed: I have a large vaultunder the ground, where I will imsaediately hidemyfeif, and li.’ou (lialt lock, b<j!t and bar me ia,and keep the keys until the king’s fon is. gone.P'Ow jack having fecured the giant, he ieoareuirnsd .'.ad fetched his iBaflerj autl were bothheartily merry with the wine, and other dain¬ties which w ere in the houfe; fo that night theyrelied :n very plesfentlodgings, while the pooruncle the eiant lay trembling under ground.Early in the morning Jack furniilu d bis am-ter with a frellt fupply of told and filvtr, aodJACK AND TBE GIANT*. 11then fethim three mite* forward on hi* journey,concluding he was then pretty well cut ssf thefcnell of the giant and then returned to let hisuncle out of the hole, who avked Jack what hewouldgive him in reward his caftle was not de*moliihed. Why. quoth jack, I defire nothing butthe old coM and cap, together with th« «ld tuftyfwoid and flippeis which are at your bed-head;Quoth the (giant, thou (halt have them, and praykeep them for niy fake, for they are thin•£excellent ufe. 'ifhe coat will keep you inf ifiblethe cap will furoifh you with knowledge, thefword cuts in funder whatever you ftrike, andthe fhoes are of an extrordinary fwiltnes* ; thelemay be oi fervice to you, and therefore pray.take them with all my heart. Jack takes them,thanking his ancle and follows bis mailer.J?cw Jack faved his Majler's Ufe, and drove theevil Spirit out of the Lady, &c,JACK having overtaken his mailer, they foofiafter arrived at the lady’s houfe, who find¬ing the king’s fon to be a fuitor* Ihe prepared abanqaet for him, which being ended, fhe wipedhis wrath with a handkerchief, faying, you mulliitow me this one to-morrow, or elfc lofe yourhead, and with that fhe put it.into her bosom.The king’s fon went to bed ve'ry forrewful,but J^ck‘s. c^p of knowledge ihtlfucted him howto obtain hv In the raidft dfthte ni;<kt file ealledher famelier fpirit, - to carry her to her fricniLucifer, jack, focus put «n his coat of darknels, >with his Ihoesof iViftnds, and was there ts footas her by rec.loa of his coat they could not feehim. Wh'. n fne entered the place, file gave thehandkerchief to Old Lucifer, who laid it on’a'-Jhelf, from whence jack took It and brought itto his mafter, an* (bowed it to the lady the nejtday, and' fo foved his life.i» THE HISTORY OFThe next day fht falurcd the king’* fo«, tellinghim he wuf* (how her to-nierrow ■oining thelip« that fhe kifsed laft this night, or loole yeurhead. Ah. replied he, if yen kafs noni but mineI if ill. ‘Tie neither here nor there, laid Sic, ifyou do cot t’eath*» your portion. At midnightHr; west as before, and was angry with Luciferfor letting the handkerchief go; but new it willbe to# hard'fnr the king’s Ion, for I will Icifs theeand he*» to Slow thy lips which {he did: JackHanding near him with his fw#rd #f Siarpnefs,cut oft the devil's head, and fetched it wider hi#invifible coat to his msfter, who was in bsd. andlaid it at the end of his boaifter. In the morningwhen the lady came up, he pulted it by the hornsand (howed her the devil’s lips which the kifs-ed laft1 hus haviaganfwered'her twice the inehant-ment broke, aad the evilfpirit left h^r, at vrhichlime flte appeared in all her beauty, a beautifuland -virtuous cre .ture- They were married thenext Korning in great pomp and folemnity, andfoon after they returned with a numerous com¬pany to the court of King Arthur, where theywere received with the gresteli joy and loud ac¬clamations by the whale court, jack, for themany and great exploits he had done for thegood of his country was made one of the knightsof the Round Table.Thus we have tinifhed the firft part of the his¬tory, which n#w leads ls to the fecond, -where¬in you have a more full accsnnt of the many va-lisnt ami wonderful exploits which was done bythe bold ad Venturis of this great and valienthero, Jack the giant.kill*r,JACK AND THE GIANTS. isP A R T II.Hun Jack* by King Arthur's leoney vent inpurfuit of Giants yet olive.JACK haYir&feee* fusrcef*£ul in all bis under¬takings, refolved not to be idle for the fu¬ture, but to perform sthat fcrvice he could forthe houour of his king and country; he humblyrequefted of the kirg his royal mailer, to fit himwith a horfe and money, to travel in fesrch offtrange and new adventures; for [aid he, thereare many giants yet alive in the renaotell partof the kingdom and the dominions of Wales, tothe unfpeakable damage of your rasjefty’s liegeSubjects; therefore may it pl< aCe vour Maiellyto give me encourrigement, and i doubt not batin a flinrt time to cut tnuni off ; oot and branch ,and to rid the rea’na oi theie.eruel giant* anddtreuring monfters of na.ure.Nonrwhen the kinghad heard tl^is noWspropo-fition, and had dvtely corfideredthe nriichitv juspractj.tes of thefe blcod-thirRy giants, he imme-dv tely granted what honeft jack requvl'C'A: andon the fit fk day of Ma cr,, being thoroughly fur-rtiflied with ah necefaarc. for his pre|;ref*, hetook hi* leave itot only of K ing ^ rihur bup like-* f all the trufty ar.B hardy knighfci belonging tothe Round Table, who, niter much talutaiionand friendly greeting, they parted ; the king andhis nobles to their courtly palace*, and Jack t©the eager purfuit of fortune’* favours, takingwith him the cap of knowledge, 1'word of fliarp-refs, ftioes of fwihness ai d like wife the invifi-ble coat, the better to, complete the dangerousenterpnfes that lay before him.Hoeo Jaci slew a Giant, and delivered a Knightand bis Lady frem death*14 THE HISTORY OFT \CK travel icd over vaft hills and wonderfulJ mountains, which at the end of three days,he came to a large and fpacious wood, thro’ whichhe mutt needs pafs, where on a fudden, to hisgreat amaseraent, he heard dreadful flirieks anderics whereupon cafting his eyes round to be¬hold what it might be, he beheld %vith wonder agiant rudiing along with a worthy knight andhis fair lady, whom he held by the hair of theirheads in his hands with as piush eafe, a* if theyhad been but a pair of glover, the fight of thismelted poor Jack into tears of pity and cempas-fion. Wherefore, he alighted from ofFhis harfe,which he left-tied to an oak tree, and then put¬ting on his iiivifible coat, uader which he, carriedhis fword of Iharpnef*, he same up to the giant,and tho' he made feveral pafses at him, yet ne-varthelefs it c®uld not reach the trunk of his -body,, by feafan of his height, tho’ it woundedhis thighs in fe veral places ; but at length giv¬ing him a fsvinging ftroke, he cut off both hislegs jufr beldW the knee, fothat the trunk 6f thebody made not only the ground to Qiake, butlikewise the trees to tremble with the. force ofhis fall, at which by mere fortune, the r knight,and the lady eicspedhis rage, t hen had jack timeto talk'with him, arid fetting his foot upon hisneck, and foid, y»u favage and barbarous wretch,1 stn comedo execute upon you the jull rewardof your'viiI liny. And with that, running himthro* and thro’, the monger feta for th a hedi-ons gtfoah,' and yield »p his life into the handsof the va’lent donquerer Jack the giant-killer,while the nable knight’'and'rirtuous ladv wereboth joyfulfpectatcri of hisfudden dowiifal andtheirowndeliverauc®. ^Tnis beipg done, the courtious knight and his/air lady not only returned him hearty thanksfor their deliverance, but alfo invited him koncsJACK \VDTHEHUNTS. ,5thsr- to:n..j fla himleif alter the dreadful en¬counter, as iJce'veite to receive. 1'orhe ampje re*Vifd by way of gratitude for his good ferVice.Nc>, q^otlr Jacis, I cannot be ai eale till 1 findout the tien which was this iKonilers habitation.1 he knight hearing this, waxed right forrovrfuland rtpiiei’, noble rtranger, u is too much torun a second risk, fur this noted raontler "ivedin • dtn under yon mountain with a brother ofhis. morevfitrcsand fisry than himfeU; and thre-forc. it fliould be the heartbicaking ofioth meand my jady: io let ane perfuade you to go withus, and deiitl Flora any further pursuit. Nay,quoth Jack, if there be another, nay. were therev. tHty ] would filed the daft drop of blood inmy body before one of theta fltould efcape myfury and when I have finifiied nty task, i veil!conae and pay my refpects loyou, So. taking di¬rections t<» their habitation, he mounted hishetle h aving them to return homt, while he"Went in puriuit of the deceafed giant’s brother.Jifow facd s/evf the other Giant and sent bothtbeir Heads to King Arthur,JACK had not ridden yelt a wile and n halfbe- /fore he cant* in fight of the cave‘s mouth,near to the e a trance of which,’ lie beheld theother giant fitting tpon a huge block »f timber,with a knotty iron club lying b^is fide, sraiting,as he iuppofed, for his brother g return withcruel prey his gogle e yec appeared like flamesof fire, his counterance grim and ugly, and hischeeks cf-peared like a couple, pf large-rat fiit-diers ol .bacou; roofeove]^ the bridles of hishead leemed to refegtble rods ef iron wire, Inslocks hung down upon his broad ihouldsrs likeCurled^Wat ,:j or Lilsing adders*16 Tt4K HISTORY OFJack alighted frow his horfe and put hiaa iiuto a thicket* tfcea with his coat of darknefs hebecame fornewhat near to behold his figure, andfaid foftl*, Oh! are y#u there i it will not beloop before I take yoa by the heard, The gtantall this time could not fee him by realon of Wsinrifeble coat, fo earning up clofe to him, vali-a»t Jack fetching a blow-at his head with hisfwer H of fiiarpnefs, and milling fotaewhat of hisaim, cut off the giants nose, whole nollrils werewider than a pair of jack boots, the pain wasterrible, and fo he put up his hand to feel for bisaofe, and when he cuuld not find it, he rar’d androar’d louder than claps of thunder, and th d het-jined up his large eyes, he could not fee fromwhence the blow ci.ma which had done him thatgreat chcuer ; nevecthelefs, he took up his iron-head club, and began to lay about kim Uks oneStark mad. NT.,v, quoth Jack, if you be for thatfport, then 1 wilt difpatch you quickly, for fearof an accidental blow falling out. Then as thegiant aroie from his block jack nv*Vcs no moreto do but runs Ids iVord up to the hjlt ip t»je f.1-at.t’a fundament, where he left it fucking^ tor awhile,.and flood hitwfelf laughing with his nns*!*!. ktmho, to fee the gknt caper sad dance theoar.a, it s with bis sword in his art*, ct> ing oJt^he iitott'-d die be fftoubi die with the griping «hi* tutf. Thus did the giant continue ravingfor nn^our or mor^an.l at length fell downdead,, whole dreadful fall wes like to have cru »-ed poor Jack, had he not been nimble enoughto avcide the fame. , , .This being done, J*ck rtt effboth the grantsheeds, and lent theta buth to King Arthu yn wsgeoncr, whom he employed tor the purpoie,together with an account of his profperous. cefs in all hi# undertakings.JACK ANDTHE G AS FS. *7How Jack searched their ccve^ and deliveredmany men out of captii&y-J\(,K. having thus difpatched thefe two ia«n'1eri, rtfol ve-i wsth iiinitclf eater toe cavei, tear h oftheie giants trofure; |>e pfsed a-Ib is thro’ many turning* md wir.dniga, .rhirhled hits at letigtk to a root, ptved wuh tr-ce.£tonr, at the *ppe‘ end of whh-W 'vas^a hoi’ingcaldron; then on the right han- fte-d a largetable, whe-eat he fupp ^t-d tht giant# ufr.d todine; then he came to the iron g t-, th oughwhich he iooied, *na thete ioehrld a v ft manyalterable captivt a * o.fcei:* J «:* at .nitan-ie,cried out with a i-'*d voice, a- .#! voung man,art thou come o be one '.ar ng us i* t mU«-rriile den i A quoth fads, > ;- ppr l !ailt nottarry long here : Out p';»y te Ij.ue •’hat ia uctncuring of vour captivity ? vVhy, f ■id one, otthem, rl! tdl ;aa 'e arc pnfuns that havebt^n take:- by the giant* that keep thi* cave, andh :v- we are kept till inch time as they haveoccafian for a particular Feaft, snd then-the fat-taft aiuon^ us is slaughtered, and prepared fortneir devouring jatss; it is not long ftnee theytook three o- us for the fame purpofe; nay manya-re the tinie# they’ve ci’.ned on murdered, men,Say you fo quoth.jack, well, d have given themboth f»ch a dinner that it will- be long enoughe. e they l ive occafidn for any too-8 *‘he ra¬table captives were *mazed at trefe yords ; youmay believe me quoth ja4», h r I nave slamtiffin will* the point, c-f my. f.vord odd ^s tortneir mood reus hca<W L lent them in to th^court,of King Arthur, &a ft trophies *.>t n.y un—paralleled victory: And in teilinjony of^thetruth of what he had ?ailv he unlocked the irongitf, fetiing Uie roiferable captives at liberty,Wtho all rej?iced Uke ctfrideoined malc-fictors at4*8 THE H'STORT ofthe fight of a reprive: thea leadiag them toge-ither to the f^jgefaid ro xn, he placed-them roundthe table, am, fet before them t^ro quarters ofbeaf; as alfo bieatl and wiflc, fo that he feaftedthem very plentifuliy. Supper being ended theyfearched the giants coffers, where finding a vailquantity ef gold and filver. Jack equallyadividedit amongft them; they all returned him heartytiank's for their treaPure and miraculous deii^veraace. That right they went to their reft,and the next mornhig they arofe and departed,the captives totheii refpcctive towns anil placesof absde, an^ jack to the knights houfe, wboiiihe-had formerly delivered, from the hands ofthe f iantHow Jack came to the Knight's Hsufet and hisnoble entertainment there., *Sc.TT was about fun rifingwl n Jack mounted bishor 'e to proceed to his journey, ar-dby thohelp of his directions, he came to the knight’shoufe feme time before noon, where he wrr> re»ceived wi?h all demtinftrations of joy imaginable-by thekaight *nd his lady, who, in honourablerefpect to j ic'k, prepared a feoft, which liftedfor many v!;>,ys, inviting fell the pen try in the sd-jacent parfw, to whom the worthy knight svaspleafed t® relate the manner of His former dan-gcr aid the happy deliverance, by the undaunt¬ed courage of jack the giant killer, and by-wayof gratitdtliD, he prefenced him with -j ring ofgo!:\ eh yhich was engraven by ccrtAtts art,thy picture 'of the giant'dragging a diftreftedk'light and” ids fair lady by the hair of theirheads, whh thh rnotco :' We ’were infiddistrefs yov see>,Under a giants fierce commandtBnt gain'd our lives and liberty.By valient Jack's victorious band*%JACK *ND THE GIANTS. 19Now among the vaft afremblv there Patent,were five sged gentfemfer, who were f^erjt*femeofthofe miCerab! - c’ptiyeswhom jackha^ lately fet at liberty* who onderftawbnpr thut hewaJL perronthuVperformed thefe great wonders, immediately paid him fheir venerable re-fpects; after which their mirth memfed andthe failing bowl wemfreMy round to the prof^perous fucc?fs of the victorious ^.nquerorBut in the midft of all the mirth, r. nark clouappeared, which daunted *«. the hearts of th«^Thu^lt was a mefsenger brpu^the d^naltidings ol the opprocch of onehue*, giant with two heads, who **. ^•of..the death qf.V-s kirfmen, .the ^ove-namedgiant*, who was come from the .northern p^felu fearch of Jack, to be reVen&d on dim tor. their moft terrible downfaj and ’v*s '^ flmile of the knight s ieat, the codntry peopUiBp before him, from their Wu.e» 11 ' , ,related:this, .Jack,pot a whit undS W*let him come, 1 am prepared with a ^:U0Phis-teeth, and you ladies atto gentlemeo,• UUU.Wttl ' 7* y'■ joyful fpectatoi’s tht*.menltrs;: and.difiirwcti&n,. jo wiskh thejt chery,..ci3e whiiip.g. mm,good' itnft&fdl ’giant* deathIt they all confented,ejery ..cue• vdiUipg him.good' fortune in thatgreet and dangerop er;i?rprife.Mow Jack overibrt<w the Giant in tvs Meat, and''* ’ - cilt ojj- botb bit Heads, ha. - n.r-plVv. firuition of tht kvdght’s b0»fe was as!. fallows : it was placed in the miclftbf a ImafJi.lar.d encdrhpased round'with & moafthir#ty feet deep and twenty feet JwitFei, over whichyjqji 9 .draw bridge. Wherefore 'Jack employod' two men to oat it on Wth fides, almofi to- theao JACK iNO THS GUSTS..»Wdle, and then dreff'm^ hiiafe'.fi* h<* coat toda^kncfs, like wife putting on his (hoes of fwift-ne.». be marched forth againd the giant, withhi» 1‘word o( fhitpneia ready drawn,. Tec whenhe ca e up ciofe ro him the hnicsutd riot feeJack, h,* rcah;n of his iuvifi’nle coat which hehad cm : neverrheleis, hs was ienfi’ole foms ;.p~proachir? danger, which made him cry out itrthe fo.lowing word*:Fc Fi. Fo, Fun,I tmell tbt blood of an Englishman,B- be bving or be be <?eadIh grind bis bonet to mix my bread.Say* tho.. iij quoth then thou art aisonftrous miller indeed : Hut how if i Ihou’.dferv thee as (did the wo gianta of (ate in myeoruciencc I ih ,u)o (poil yojr practice for thef» .ure fix which rHe the i nt -poke wit i aVoice as Joad as thunder art thou that villainwhich deJtroyeu my two kit .meD? th.n l willtear thee with »y tretH, fuck thy blond, andwhat is more, I will gi in.l thy bone* to pow¬der. You mail caich m: firft, quoth Jack, andwith that he threjv IFhis coat ofd i'knef** thatthe giant might fee him cl early'. and then ranfrom him js thro’ fear. Vhe giant with foamingmouth anrf glaring eyes toilsfred after like awalking callle, maki-g the iou.Tit*tion of theearth, as it were, to ihrke at every Oep.: jackled him a dares three or four times round themoat -that belonged to tlae knight'* huule, thrtthe gentlemen and 1,edits might take a full view'of this huge mqnfter of nature, who followedjack with all his might, hut c.iv’ Wot,overtakehim by reafon of his Ihocs of fwilttteik. whichcarried him f&fter than the giant could foilow.-At length Jack to hoi A the work, took over thebridge, the giant with full (peed purfuiug afterJ ACK AND TM£ GIANTS. ^ ai!u« w';u) hit ironr club* upon his {boulder, butcomiftg to the niidtlle *f ihc dr^.w-bridge, whenwith the weight of hi* body, and the TnoilcrtaJ-fal t\cps lie took it broke down, and he turableclinto the water, where he roll'd and waUow dlike a whale, J»ck b u.'mgat tf.e fide of themoa., laughe i at tl«r gisnt npd fau —you toldrae ) oa would grind n»y bones t© powder, hereyou have water enough pray where h youismill? The giant fretted ami inamed to hear himfcflf an that rate andtho’ he piairged from fideto fide in the moat, yet he could rot get out tobe revenged on tbs adverfary. ack at length,got a cart rope and call it over the giant’a twoheads, with a slip-knot and by the help of a fewborsag dragged him out again, with which hewss near ftrangled, and before he could let himloofe, he cut off both his heads with his swordof ftiarpnefs, in the full view of all the worthyaffembly of kaigbts, gentlemen and ladies, whoguve a joyful ftiuut when they faw the giantfairly eifpatchtd. 1 hen before he would e-thereat or drink, he fent tnefe heads alfo auer theother to the court of King Arthur, which oeingdone Jack with the knights and ladies returnedto their mirth an ' paltime which held many dayg#Hew Jack cane to the House oj an old Hermit^and vital difcourse hapfitvta k tween them,n F i 'ER fome ti ”e fpent in ttiumphant mirthA ani poflime. Jack grew weary of rmiousliving, wherefore taking leave of the noblemenami ladies, he fet forward in harch of new ad¬ventures, meeting with notmng remarkable tillat length coming -to the foot of a high moun¬tain, late at night, he knockea at vhe door of alonefome houle at which time an ancient manwith a head as white cs now. arofe and let him.in. Father said Jack, have )<* wy entcmin-a* THE HISTORY OFnsent for a benighted traveller that has loft hisway? Yes, frdd the (^Id man, if thou wik acceptof fuch accoinmodations as my poor cottage canafford, thou *iit oe right welcome. Jack re¬turned him 'many thanks for his great civility,■vriu reupon down they fat together, and the oldman began to difcoui i'e hi,.., as follows “ Son,faid he,' i am zonfible thou art the great con¬queror of giants, hik! it is in thy power to fre«this place of the country from an intolerablebe /ien which we groan under: for behold, mV ionon the top of this mountain tin re is an enchaot-ed'Vaftie, kept by a huge mondio s giant, nam-cd Galligaptus, who by the help of an old conjur¬er, bet. avs many knight* and ladies into thisItrong caltle, where, fy magic ;<rt, they aretransformed into fundry Ihajits and forms ; but,above all, l Lament the fad inisformne of a dukesdaughter, whom they fetchedfr m her father’sgaroen by art, carrying her tbro’ the uir in amourning chariot, dra\m as it were'by two fierydrsvOns, ami being fecuied within the wal.s ofth^ calile, fhe was immediately tra. sfomed intothe real thape of a white hind ; tho’ many wor¬thy knights have endeavoured to break the en-. ehontment and work her deliverance yet noneof them could accomplifh this, great work, byrtafou of two dieadful griffins, who were fixedby magic art at the entranc? of the caftie gate,who deilroyed any as loon as they taw them;but y.on, my don, being furnihet* with an in via¬ble coat, may pals by them undifcovei d. vrhereon the brazen gates of the cattle, you will findengraven in large characters, the means bywhich the enchantmen’ ma> be hr oketi.”This old man having ehdtu his discourie Jackaw* him hi® hand vi'n a faithisl premife,at in the morning he would venture his lifeJ*fCK A DT'lEGf'^NTS. asto break'the eachahteitiu, a : frte the lady,together wu!^ th- reft, that v/ere riiferablep-rtikers in her calamity.Mow Jack git into tbe enchantt'<i Castle, brokethe Encba - emtvt, killed the Giant put theConjurer to fl gbt, set free the knights' anc^Ladies: Hkewije tie Duke's Daughter, whomhe afterwards married. ■+.HW'iNG refreibed themfelves with i fmallmorfe1 of mer t, t her laid the m dow n to re it,and in the morning Jacu arote, put on nis jnvi-fible coat, his c,ip ot knowledge, and flioes ofIwiftiiess.Now when he had nfeended to the top of themountain, he loon difeovered the tv* o fiery grif¬fins, he pafsed cm between tiiem without fear,for they could, not fee him by*renion of his in-vifible coat N oxv when he bad got beyond themhe turned his eyes around him, whi.re he found-apon the gate *< golden trumpet nung in a chainof fine fiiver under wnich thtl’e lines werewritten;Whoever shall this trumpet How,' Shall loon the g ants overthrow.And break taeitack enchantment straight,iso all shall be in happy state.Jack had no fooner read this defeription^ buttie blew.the trumpet, at which time the vaftfoundation of the caille trembled, and the giant *together with the conjuror were in horrid con-fiifion, biting their thambs and tearing theirhair, knowing their wicked icign was at an end.At which rime jack, standing at the giant s el¬bow a* he wds stooping to take up the club,he at one.blow with his fword of sharpness, cutoff his bead. The conjuror feci g this, foonmounted up in tbe 'dr, and was carried awy by34 T*£ IHSTailY OFa whirl yimkI. Thus, wss the whole enchant,tnent'broken, and every knhrht and I^dy whohid been for a long time transformed iato birdsand he ists, returned to their proper shape again;and as for the castle, though it leemed at firstto b< of vast strength and bigntfs, it vanishedaw a* tike a cl-.uiy I'm ok e, whereupon an nm«vtrial joy appeared amoa t the eleafed knightsand lac ies Yhis being done, the head of Galli-gantus was likewife according to Jack’s accus¬tomed manner, conveyed to the Court of KingArthur, as a pi efent made to his Majesty. Thevery next day, after having refreshed theknights and ladies at the old man's habitation,who lived at the foot of the mountain, he letforward to the court of Kiag Arthur,'with thofeknights and ladies whom he had fo honourablydelivered .iC/hen coming to his Majesty, and having re¬lated all the pafsages of the firce encounters,hit fume rang thro the whole court, and as a re¬ward for his good fervice, the king prevailedupon the afortiaid duke, tobt bestow his daugh¬ter in marriage to honest Jrck, protesting thatthere was no pe" son (c worthy of her as lie, toall which the dyke honourably confemed. Somarried th y were, and not only,the com t, butlikewife the kingdom was filled tvith joy tidtriumph at the wending. After which the kingas a reward for the good fervices sitne to thenation, bestowed upon Irm a noale habitation,with a very plentiful f state,- belonging there-uuto, where he and his lady lived the remainderof their days in g eat joy and happiness,FINIS.S