THE NEWA SELECTION OJFCHOICE BOM BIOTS,IRISH BLUNDERS, RAPARTEES, ANECDOTES, &C.Care to our coffin adds a nail no doubt,While every laugh so merry, dr aws one out,C OF SCOTLAN^rdook^^NburG^PRINTED FOR THEMJIMJED tOB 1HICerv2GOM^ou;,( r,^tpf,<&■!<x<-»/APJI® C/CLA pnfi(J ao hisiia1 ain/.i out. onr0»t* *° oni- s»q<p a- uu:j uu <• ' tji,?.•••'IT ,3H Brn/DBH?,* BYBVBXEEa* YKk'CJJUIE-1 >' ' .CHOICE BOM .JIGAZ*V BiirECiloa ■>»8GB YL-BOOK|(e). JXHE TAY.1L&L-!sbiuu.te.MHHj , ( b'flob fituQANECDOTES. IdJas'isvei! svJLrd fi'usvs^BSNOLISfiMAN AND HIGHLAN61L^,vAn English vessel passing “up thd Cly8&fell in with a Highland Sloop coming downwhich the captain of the fbrtner hailed ifltlthe usual salutation of “ Sloop ahoy !” whetthe following conversation took place•<. ■ imieshCaptain. What’s your cargo ?Highlander. . jPenlomon.Cap. Where are you bound, for ? ;1High. Potatoes. , +£x -midCap. What’s your Captain’s name..^Hugh. Prpomala. Bo j >V ,noBih ghlCap. , Where do you com^prom^ 90f[High. Yes; it’s a fine poat. ' T:<Cap. Will you take us on boar4?.High. Yesterday; rnooe diiod• DUKE' OE BUCCUBUGH.Henry, Duke of Butcleugh, was ^r^itlybeloved by Ids numerous tenantry. OiiO olthem yel'epf Jamie Howie, had a son abddtfdttr ears of age, who having heard muchof a great Duke of Buccleugh, wRS veryanxious to see him. Honest Jamie, hi a ftwdays, being honoured with a visit from the.4Duke, doffed Ins bonnet, made a profound,reverential bow, and said, u O, my lord,ye maunna be angr}^ wi’ me, but it’s aHeeven’s truth, my lord, there’s a daft wee'jaUant o’ mine that canna rest nor let ithersKrest nicht nor day, he has ta’en in his headsic a notion o’ seein’ what like you are, gudesake, my lord; I dinna think he has onyyedeea ye are a man at a’, but some far-awa,outlandish, ower-the sea creature.” TheDuke, mightily tickled with this fancy,desired Jamie to bring the youngster into hispresence forthwith. Out comes the juvenileinqmsiter with his finger in his mouth, andcautiously reconnoitres the personage beforehim. At last quoth the urchin, “ Can yesoom ?” u No, my little fellow,” repliedhis Grace, u I canna soom.” li Can yeflee?” No, I canna flee.” “Well, man,for as muckle’s ye’re, I wadna gi’e ane o’ma fayther’s dukes for ye; for they canbaith soom an’ flee!”PARAGRAPH ON PARRITCH.Once upon a time, a worthy tradesmanwho had his “ wonn” in a certain populouscity “i’ the wast,” was in the habbit ofnightly indulging a predilection for a com-ortable lounge in an auction-room, whereLe managed to procure a fund of e-ase andamusement sufficient to dissipate the effects ;5of the dry details of the day. On one oc¬casion, while paying a tribute of more thanordinary attention to a string of elaborateeulogia on the merits of some article of sale,delivered by the eloquent lips of him of thehammer, his ears were suddenly assailed bythe well known voice of his son, a boy o'lfive years of age, who had been charged witha message of special importance ii’om theguidwife, to the frequenter of the nocturnalhowff. u Fayther! ” vociferated the uncere¬monious rascal, “ yer parritch is ready!”Honest Thomas looked certain “unutterablethings,” as the eyes of a hundred individualswere simultaneously directed first to thequarter whence the salute proceeded, andthen to the subject of the address. Hecleared the mob in one step—bolted from thethreshold in another, and finished a thirdwith a smart application of a weighty tack-etted shoe to the astonished retreater’s seatof honour, while he grinned out, “Yedeevil’s Jawcobeet! the next time ye comewi’ sic an eerand, say a Gentleman’s waitinon me.” An opportunity soon occurred fora display of the urchin’s new-acquiredpolitesse;—two evenings afterwards he wasobserved popping in his antiquated phiz,and magnanimously bawling the intelligenceregarding the gentleman in waiting. Hewas answered with a complaisant “ Vera•eweel,” and a promise of immediate ;i! ten¬dance. A new turn in the business of thelounge, banished tiie circumstance from thefather’s recollection—the boy returned inbreathless haste to repeat the requisition,which he did in a clearer, louder, anti moreanxious tone than ever—tree, withal, tot lielate hint on etiquette—Fayther ! If yedinna Come quick, the Gentleman ’il he'quite cauld! m• y-mim »dt botcTalbov "' >> hw»ill(V)1 8; A GOOD WIF^ euSoniShould be like three things; whichthings she should not be like.First.-*-She should he like a snafr,always keep within her house’i—but 4heshould not be like a sn&il, to ca&y all thehas upon her back.Secondly.—She should be like ain echo,speak when she is spoken to:—but she shohldnot be like an echo, always to have the histword.Thirdly.—She should be like a town*clock, always keep time and regularity >*-but she should not he like a town-clock, tospeak so loud that all the town may heather.A WEATHER-MASTER.An Irish pastor, wheil applied to by oneof his fl(xA for a shower of rain, said heishould he happy to oblige him, but he hadseveral previous applications iof’dry weather;and as it woitld he impossible tor him (0 dis¬oblige any of his congregation, he was nn-iler the necessity of declining to interfere.•iliVlHO * • VfJ9 /I. S,ii7 XIO R&tfjfi »▼ * —••VOEPI I'AlUI ON GAbRIEL JOHN.Here lies the body of Gabriel JohnWho died m the year lei’ll. • •, yPray for the soul of Gabriel .Tpup.fYon may, if you please,Or let it aioiie ;' ” 1..;^. . For it's all one rTo Gabriel John,Who died iu the year lOUl. jA PoWiUU'tJL PUKACHTlU.u Ah, Sir!” exclaimed the elder in thetone of pathetic recollection,—a’bur lateminister was the man ! He was a puorfu'preacher; for i’ the short time he d.doefedthe word arnang us, lie knock’d three pupifeto pieces, and dang the guts out o’ tivePibles.”EPITAPH.I, Sir John Trollop, 1V0110!.91Made tliese stoncS roll up;When God shall take my sold up,u TinUh!‘kENTRIES OF THE NAMES OF CUSTOMERS.The following1 entries of the names ofcustomers were found in the books of a gro¬cer, in a neighbouring city, on his insolven--u Woman on the Key. Jew Woman.Woman. Old Coal Woman. FatCoal Woman. Market Woman. PaleWoman. A Man. Old Woman. LittleMilk Girl. Candle Man. Stable Man.Coachman. Big Woman. Lame Woman.Quiet Woman. (!!!) Egg Man. LittleBlack Girl. Old Watchman. Shoemaker.Little Shoemaker. Short Shoemaker. OldShoemaker. Little Girl. Jew Man. Mrsin the Cart. Old Irishwoman. Womanin Corn-street A Lad. Man in theCountry. Long Sal. Woman with LongSal. Mrs Irishwoman. Mrs Featherbon-net Blue Bonnet Green bonnet. GreenCoat. Blue Breeches. Big Breeches. TheWoman that was married. The Womanthat told me of the man.THE MINISTER AND HIS THREE SONS.jolly dame who kept the principal car-vansary at Greenlaw, in Berwickshire, hadthe honour to receive under her roof a veryworthy clergyman, with three sons of thesame profession, each having a cure of souls;V) it said, in passing, none of the reverend9laity were reckoned powerful in the pulpitAfter dinner, the worthy senior, in the prideof nis heart, asked Mrs Buchan whether sheever had such a party in her house before.“ Here sit I,” said he, “a placed ministerof the kirk of Scotland, and here sit mythree sons, each a placed minister of thesame kirk.—Confess, Luckie Buchan, younever had such a party in your house be¬fore.” The question was not premised byany invitation to sit down and take a glassof wine or the like, so Mrs B. answereddryly, u Indeed sir, I cannot just say thatever I had such a party in my house before,except once in the forty-five, when I had aHighland piper here, with his three sons,all Highland pipers; and de’il a springthey could play amang them.MATRIMONY.One of the towns* officers of Ayr, w&jstruck severly by accident on the head byhis wife.—After the fray was adjusted, thethe wife said to her husband, H , had 1killed you, and I been hanged for it, wouldyou marry Kate M‘Lauchlan.ARABIAN PROVERB.Bet him that would be safe avoid seventhings:--wasps, spiders, hyamas, crocodiles,efl’s, adders, and fine women !iU- 7 THE WICKEDEST MAN.Bora anf fii ?iouB3 Yfi t -fiAA clergyinan, who wished to know whetherthe children of the parishoners understood{fhoir bibles, asked a lad that he one day{nvtnd reading the Old Testament, who wasthe wickedest man ? Moses, to be sure, saidthe boy.—-Moses, exclaimed the parson, howcan that be ? Why, said the lad, becausehe broke all the commandments at once!NOT LOST BUT DROWNED.A Leith merchant being on his usual rideto the south, came to the ford of a dark rirer,at the side of which a boy was diverting him¬self The traveller addressed him as follows:—“ Is this water deep ?” “Ay, gaen deep,”answered the boy. “ Is there ever any per¬son lost here?” “No,” replied the boy,“ there was never any lost; there has beensome drowned, but we aye get them again."THE RED NOSE.A West Indian, who had a remarkablyfiery nose, having fallen asleep in his chair,a negro hoy who was in waiting, observeda musquitto hovering round his face. Quasieyed the insect very attentively, at last hesaw him alight on Ids master’s nose, andimmediately fly off. ‘ Ah ! d n yourmheart,’ exclaimed the negro, 4 me d—>glad see yiMWur foot.’' * TTOvlf*THE DEYIL DEFINED.Tii erend Mr vShirra, but ger ministerin Kirkcaldy, ^nce gave the following curi¬ous defination of the Devil:—u The Devil,my bfethern, is ill ony way ye’ll tak him.Tak the D from his name, he’s evil; takthe E from his name, he’s vil; tak the Vfrom his name he’s il.” Then, shruggingup his shoulders, and lengthening his sanc-tiiied snout, he said, with peculiar emphasis,“he’s naething but an il, vil, evil, Devil,nny way ye’ll tak him !”MARK ME WELL.A gentleman having missed his way, for¬tunately overtook a boy going with a pot oftar to mark his master’s sheep, asked theroad to Banff, but was directed by so manyturnings, right and left, that he agreed totake the boy behind him on the horse, as hew<ts going near to the same place. Findingthe boy pert and docile, he gave him somewholesome advice relative to liis future con¬duct, adding occasionally, “Mark me well,my boy.”—“ Yes, Sir, I do.” He repeatedthe injunction so often, that the boy at lastvied out, “ Sir, I have no more tar!”12SCOTTISH ATMOSPHERE.An English Gentleman on a tour throughScotland, was unfortunately accompanied bywet weather most of the time. When heset out from Glasgow to Greenock, themorning was very fine; however, before hehad proceeded half way, he was overtakenby a heavy shower,. il Boy,” (says he to alittle fellow herding near the road side)u does it always rain in this country !’*u Na,” replied the boy, u it sometime?snaws.”LIBERTY OF THE PRESS.A master tailor in Glasgow, lately read¬ing the News-papers to his family, and whenexpressing the title, Liberty of the Press inFrance, one of his daughters interrupted him,by asking what the Liberty of the Pressmeaned? I’ll soon answer that question,”said he; “you know when your mother goesfmt, and leaves the key in the cupboard door,where the bread, butter, and sugar lies, thenyou have access:—That’s the Liberty o’ thePress.RESTLESS HAGGIS.Daft Will Callender, lived with his sisterBabie, in Poft-Glasgow: Babie kept13lodging house for Sailors. On Saturdaynight Babie was making a Haggis, forSunday’s dinner, when one of her lodger’s* but four ounce of quicksilver into the Haggis,unknown to Babie. On Sunday, Will was1 left at home to cook the dinner; but whenthe pot began to boil, the Haggis would beout of the pot; Will faithful to his chargesheld the lid on the pot until his patience wasexhausted—at last Will ran off to the churchfor Babie; she sat on one of the back pews;Will beckoned to her two or three times, Babieas often nodded and winked to Will to be quiet;at last he bawled out, ‘( Babie come hame,for I believe the deil’s got into the Haggis,it’ll no bide in the pat, it’s out dancing onthe floor, and if I had not locked the door,I think it would have been at the kirk assoon’s mysel.”fHE KELLOCHSYDE GRACE.The following is preserved traditionallyas the grace of the farmer of Kellochsyde orKillocsyde, in Clydesdale:—O Lord, we’ray gangan, and we’r ay gettan. We souday be cuman to thee, but we’r ay forgettan.We leive in the gude mailen o’ Kellochsyde,suppan thy gude peisie kale, puir sinfou sonsof- that we are. Monie mercies we re¬ceive, gude trowth: and we’r little thankfouHfor them, prude feth. Janet, ./u nr t.lmsptmes; ana aw praise and glAry 'sad hethine. Amen.1 ' / OJUf lOVliciXw'ii,f) lo iomio liUM. jijt\PATRIMONY AND MATRIMONXLMiT- { 19imU) QliJ AUu i OJ Si non jn Av<■ulAt an examination of a school in Edin¬burgh, a g enUeman asked one of the scholarshy wliat name they called property thatdescended from a father? “Patrimony,”answered the scholar: and what do you callit, when descended from a mother? “Mat¬rimony,” was the reply.THE LIGHT GUINEA.* i l4 i r * r • Mi4An Irishman one day walking on thestreets of Glasgow, found a light guinea,and got 18s for it: next day he waswalking and sees another, Allelieu dearhoney, says he, I’ll have nothing to do withyou, for I lost 3s by your brother yesterday.ELDER’S HOURS.A Cunning carle, invested with the cemi-sacred office of “ Ruling Elder,’' or practi¬cally seemingly indentified with that office,in order to gratify an inclination, scratched}wi’ the neb o’ a fork, the figure 10, on theone side of his outer door, and the figure 11,on the othhr. Bv which plan he was aidef5-i to say wi’ ‘‘ a good conscience,1’ at a’ times,and on. a’ .jcc/isions, that hn tame hamea tween ten and eleven.c? rU r r * rr v a,, f aU In ^ » ‘ -J UAJIiSM -'iLITHE THISTLE -A few Scotch and English travellers be¬ing met together, an Englishman took itupon him to run down the Thistle, exclaim-| ed against the empty boast of its motto;“ Nemo me impune lacesset;” when aSyytollman present observed, “ The Thistle,sir, is the pride of the Scottish nation, but itis!nothing in the mouth, of an Asjs,”SAGE INSTRUCTIONS.A labouring Ilighlandman, who lived inthe upper parts of Perthshire, whose wife wastaken ill labour, wished him to retire out ofthe house. Janet says to him.—u Oh !you be gang awa*, Duncan, gsng awa’!”I’he man however kept loitering about thedoor, seemingly imprassed with something ofgreat importance. At last he cries to hiswife, “ You speak a me, Shanet! you speaka,me!” The wife asks, “What you say,Dimcan ?”—“ Gie the cummer (the midwife)a dram, Shanet, gie the cummer a dram !’’—“ What for Duncan ?” Gie the cumnaira dram, Shanet am tell him to mak j r,rI laddie. ‘.onvob16DEATH OF A WATCH.After the battle of Falkirk, in 1746, aHiglJandman was observed extracting agold watch from the fob of an Englishofficer who had been killed. His comradeviewed him with a greedy eye; which theman taking notice of said to him (i Tamnyou gapin’ creedy bitch, gang an’ shoot ashentleman for herseb, an’ no envie me o’my pit watch. Next morning finding hiswatch motionless, and meeting his comrade,says to him, u Och ! she no be care muckleabout a watch, an’ you be like mine whatwill you gie me for her ?” The other re¬plied, u I be venture a kinny.”—(( Weelthen,” said the other, C( Shust tak her, an’welcome, for she be die yester night.”LUMP OF OLD WOOD.An aged man, named Thomas Wood,sitting on a high three footed stool in thegallery of the Old Church of Falkirk, dur¬ing divine service, happened to fall asleep,tumbled on the floor with a great noi.e.The preacher stopped, and demanded the• reason of the noise. u Nothing', Sir,” criesa wag, u But a lump of Old Wood fallendown.’17SCOTCH PARROT.A Parrot perched upon a pole at a cottagedoor, basking itself in the sun, was observeby a rapacious Hawk which happened to bpassing over it, and suddenly dived downand seized poor Poll by the back, away theHawk flew with his prey; when passing overi the garden, Polly observed his old friend thei Gardener, and exclaimed, I’m ridin’ noo,I John Laurie: Hawky alarmed at hearing avoice so near, darted into a tree for safety,H when, after recovering a little, commencedto devour poor Poll, when it roared out withI all its might, 4‘will you bite you b I The Hawk terrified out of its wits, flew offf with a birr, leaving Poll to proceed home-fl wards at pleasure.LONG CREDIT.! Soon after the battle of Preston, two(Highlanders, in roaming through the southif Mid-Lothian, entered the farm-house ofSwanston, near the Pentland Hills, where1 they found no one at home but an oldwoman. They immediately proceeded to^search the house, and soon finding a weh oftocoarse home-spun cloth, made no scruple toiunroll and cut off as much as they thoughtwould make a coat to each. The womannfcwas exceedingly incenced at their rapacitv,roared and tried, and even had the hardihoodto invoke divine vengeance upon their heads.11 Ye villiajis 1” she cried, “ye’ll ha’e toaccount for this yet!”—“And when willwe pe account fi)^’t?,, asked one of theliig'ldanders.—“ At the last day, ye black¬guards ! ” exclaimed the woman. “ Ta lasttay!” replied the Highlander: “Tat pecood long credit—we’ll e’en pe tak a waistsOopt too!” at the same time cutting off afew additional, yards of the cloth.A BRUSH FOR THE BARBER.A Highlander who sold brooms, went in¬to a barber’s shop in Glasgow, a few daVssince to get shaved. The barber boughtone of Ids brooms, and after having shaved,him, asked the price of it; “Twopence,”said the highlander; “ No, no,” said thebarber, “ I’ll give you a penny, if thatdoes not satisfy you, take your broom again* "The Highlander took it, and asked what hehad got to pay ? “A penny,” said Strap.“ Til gi’e ye a baubee,” said Duncan, “ anif that dinna satisfy ye, put on my heart•again.”'II()W TO FIND WORK. ■ ; ,' ti/i clad f being employed by a gentleman19to repail1 his house in the country, toonalong with hiAi a Prentice: when they setto work, and continued to work for somedays, the gentleman having no conceptionthe job was to be of such duration, came outone rfloraiing, and found the apprentice atwork alone, when he expressed himself assurprised at the continuation of them working;sfo long, and enquired what had become ofhis master;: to which the boy replied, “thathe’s awa to Glasgow to look for a Job, andif he got ane, this ane would be done themorn, and if he didna get ane^ he didna kepwhen it would be done.” tJjL j., f.»fr -., ' f f.L* - *i DONALD AND THE LAIRD,ovA Scottish Laird and his man, Donald,travelling southward: at the first Englishinn, the room in where they were to sleep,containing a bed for the master and a trucklefor the man, which drew forth from beneaththe larger couch. Such furniture beingnew to the Highlanders, they mistook thefour posted pavilion for the two beds, andthe Laird mounted the tester, while the manoccupied the comfortable lodging below.Finding himself wretchedly cold in the'night, th6 Laird called to Donald to knowhow he was accommodated. “ Ne’er saeweel a’ my life,” qubth thO gilly. Hi,20man, exclaimed the Laird, u If it was nafor tlie honour of the thing, I could find inmy heart to come down.”GRAVE-DIGGER OF SORN.The Grave-Digger of Sorn, Ayrshire,was as selfish and as mean a sinner as ever |handled mattock, or carried mortcloth. Hewas a very quarrelous and discontented oldman, with a voice like the whistle of thewind thro’ a key hole. On a bleak Sunday,afternoon in the country, an acquaintancefrom a neighbouring parish accosted himone day, and asked how the world wasmoving with him, u Oh, very puirly, sir,very puirly indeed,” was the answer, “ theyard has done naething ava for us this Sum¬mer, if ye like to believe me, I havna burieta leevin’ soul this sax weeks.”EXPENCE OF A WIFEAn old bachelor who lived in a veryeconomical style, both as regards food andclothing, and not altogether so very trig assome bachelors sometimes appear, was tre-quently attacked by his acquaintances onthe propriety of taking a wife; he was verysmartly set upon one day, and told howsnod a wife would keep him, and manyOther fine things to induce him to take a21wife, and among tne rest, what a comfort itwould be to dm, if it was for nothing else,but to mak his puritch in the morning;f says he, “I dinna doubt but she wad makmy puritch, put the plauge is, she wad befair to sup the half o’ them.”! CHARITY.A person who resides in the ancient townof Killwinning, proverbial for his liberalityin meat and drink, to friends and accjuain-tances; strangers too, seldom passed with¬out experiencing a due share of his kindness ;lately while feasting nearly a dozen ofrandom visitors on u Pat Luck,” a beggari called at the door soliciting charity, when hevery good humouredly called out, u I cannahelp you the day, I hae plenty o’ your kinhere already.”DISTINCTION OF SONS AND DAUGHTERS.About the year thretty-sax, a company| differed, “ Whether it was better for a manto hae sons or daughters ?” They cou’dn?gree, but disputed it pro and con. At last,one of them said to Graham of Kinross,(wha hadna yoked wi’ them in the argu¬ment,) u Laird, what’s your opinion?”Quo he, u I had three lads and three lasses;I wafua whilk o them 1 liked bestsaelang2Has they siftket their mither; but cia'il hasmy share O’ tlie callants, when they cAtne to.spck their father.” •’« *;fxBW Oflci Jud ‘ ’i. j ^Bnnib I ^ ^9fl iyBrded hii7f jd.' BIRD’S NE8%/j ^ru ‘mThe mother of a respectable Grocer in atown in the west, .called her son to her,while on her death-bed, and declared to himthat his reputed father was not really hisfather j but that such a ope {nameing him)really was his father ; and that the deed wasdone one night s while journeying frorrtGreen ode, when at the (dun-Brae-Head)this story got wing, and rah through thetown like wildfire, and was a fine source ofahiusement for'some time. One day, a boyvulgarly named'the 1* Linty,”' Went intothe said Grocer’s shop to purchase some ar¬ticle, when he was assailed with u Wed,”Lintv, whar is tu gaun to big thy nest theyear ?” Replied, “ I- Was thiftkin’to;big it down fttiout tlm (^lun-Brae-head.”n££a c io) tsfied saw j! toiIJmIW .hcififlil.’no TlUt GREAT WAN To--, ecd «»)A femalb pauper, lately made a verystrong* and forcrhle ippOhl hi thb elders' alhdheritoi-s df ascertain pklfishj fbr an advance( f 4s:; Cil.'—KOine brie of the grave quomptfenquired what tnade to' so tu-gent on thisoccasion, when bhe hml‘lately glrf a supplyif coals, shoes, &c., to this she replied—“ Why, deed siib, it’s just to buy a pAlr o'U\ my daughter Tibboo, ilk ;lassPiatj otht respectable has them but hersel’,. so ye see she eanua do wantin them, am' yeaaeT ntm&L loa IIs hi , %hyjdVd beqqeOVhm aidl eA^telUbcfft^pnoMfloOlu a. |farty of ladies, on it being reportedlb-kH' f dbtahi Bilk had arrived in total,1 they'] i«x<dfituned, uitli ooe.exdeptiori, < W hata name for a soldier!’ ‘The fittest nameizn the world,’ repliadya wjtty female, ‘ foririilh never can,be Worsted!!o iot einoa imd bad oxfv/ (nod e iennhi A( aid rieia oj ainoif guimoo ^ylieiavinn odJ Jr,| id^iiiM-AiRtjU OF INTELLKGT. -dJdfi i.> slquoo b iio'.TXiqire adldl bio odt dti//h T wo country carters, .passing the entranceo the Arcade, Argyll .street, Glasgow, ohiperved. painty; on the-wall, “No Dogs to*fleib^re.?”i,!j“^cf Dogs- to enter here !”aimed tone ‘of thejm,, “I’m Sure, therbisUae iuse for that .there.”. “What wafyj! 11 pick,’’ replied thefother. “’Cause dogii sftnha read signs,” said he. s “ fla, ha,> lock, re maybe wrong, i’so vvauvfm ye;entlc mlk’s .dogs- ’ill kcu't, brawley, tor. here’s schools, noo, vvhar they learn theji lumb baith to read an’ speak.”24HOW TO READ A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland Drover passing through acertain town, noticed a Sign-board above anentry, with the following inscription :Green Teas, Raw Sugars, Marmalades,Jellies, Capped Biscuits, and all sorts oiConfectionary Goods, sold down this entry,read it as follows :—Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids,Jades, Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts ofConfusionary Goods, sold down this entry.ADDITIONA farmer’s Son, who had been some timeat the university, coming home to visit hisfather and mother; and being one nightwith the old folks at supper, on a couple offowls, he told them, that by the rules oflogic and arithmetic, he could prove thesetwo fowls to be three.—u Well, let us hear,”'said the old man; {< Why this,” said thescholar, u is one, and this,” continued he,“is two, two'and one, you know make three.”—“ Since ye hae made it out sae weel,’ ,answered the old man, “your mother shallhae the first fowl, I’ll hae the second, am’ithe tliird you may keep to yoursell.”FINIS.