CONTAININGTHE INTEEPRETATIONGREAT VARIETY OF DREAMS( ' OF SCO! LAjGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.THEGOLDEN DREAMER.AIR.To dream of the atmosphere, has a variety of in¬terpretations, and depends entirely on the differentappearances it has. If you dream the sky is clear,of a fine blue, calm and serene, then it is a goodomen ; you will be successful in your enterprises:if you are soliciting any place of preferment, you willsurely obtain it,—if you are in love, you will surelymarry the object of your affections,—have you 9law-suit ? you will gain it,—are you in trade ? itwill flourish and he profitable,—are you a farmer ?good crops will attend you, your cattle will increase,your pigs and poultry, will he abundant, your com¬modities will fetch a good price at the market,—you are married p you will have many children, and 1they will he duitful and do well—are you about toundertake a journey ? it will answer your utmostexpectations—are you going to sea ? you will havea pleasant and prosperous voyage—are you in debt? •;you will speedily be enabled to extricate yourself fromit,—are you in prison ? you will shortly be set atliberty. To dream that it is full of thick, dark,and heavy clouds, is an unfavourable token,—youwill fall sick, and perhaps die,—disappointments willattend your business.| Adultery. To dream of the committing of thisein, forebod ®3 great troubles and misfortunes,—ifi aro in love, you will certainly fail in marryingobject of your wishes,—if you have a lawsuit,rill certainly go against you, by the treachery ofse who pretend to be your friends,—if you tirer business some heavy loss will happen to you.I ph a dream announces that you are in great danger? dosing your liberty,—and if you are about toIjflertake a voyage to sea, omit it for the present,Syou will never reach the destined port. Tojam you are tempted to commit this crime, andiit you resist it, it is a happy omen,—every thing1 flourish with you,—he sure it is a good time tofjtin trade after such a dream,—if you have a law-jit, all will go on in your favour, with credit toWself, and confusion to your opponents,—if youabout to undertake a long journey, it will beiiifeasant and successful to your obj ect,—if you aroling to sea, you will have an agreeable voyage,Sautiful weather and a quick arrival at the portdestination,—if you are in love, do not desist■j* pressing the object of your wishes, for they willgratified.Apparel. Nothing more demonstrates the eventsat are about to happen you, than dreaming ofaring apparel, but almost every colour has afferent interpretation, and much depends on itspearing new or old, its fitting you, or being toog or too little. We shall here explain them ac-rding to their different significations. To dreamu are dressed in white, is a sure token of successi the first object you undertake, and that you will1 o successful in love, and that your sweetheart is ofc good temper and amiable disposition. To dreamou are dressed in green, denotes that you aro abouto undertake a journey to your advantage, and thatour sweetheart prefers you te all ether lovers. To4droam you are dressed in black, is an unlucky omeisome quarrel is about to happen between you andfriend or relation; sickness is about to attend yoand your family; death will deprive you of son;near friend or relation; law-suits will perplex anharass you if you undertake a journey, it will bunsuccessful, and contribute much to injure youhealth and fortune—if you are in love, it denote;that your sweetheart is very unhappy, and that sick ;ness will attend her,—if you are a fanner, you wil1be cheated by some knave, and your crops will tun ;out indifferent; the murrian will attack your cattle' -and some dreadful accident will happen by the over .turn of one of your waggons,—if you are in businesssome one will arrest you, and you will have great bdifficulty in settling the matter. To dream you andressed in blue, denotes happiness, you will shortlybe invited to some banquet or merry making, when <you will make some friends and be very happy, if youonly avoid quarreling, which some enemy to your wel-fare will endeavour to excite you to do,—your sweet- ■heart is by this colour denoted to be very faithful to Iyou, and will make you very happy and comfortable; ■you will have many children, chiefly boys, who will!turn out honest and good,—if you are in trade you willprosper. If you dream you are dressed in scarlet,you are thereby warned of some very heavy calamity,and a severe fit of illness—your sweetheart is by itannounced to you to be of a turbulent disposition,much inclined to dispute about trifles, and liable tomake you very unhappy,—your children will beshort-lived and of very unhappy tempers, much in¬clined to be very sickly,—it surely denotes a quarreland loss of frier ds. To dream you are dressed inyellow, is rather lucky than otherwise, your sweet-j heart by it appears to be very jeaions of yon, an; great pains will be requisite to prevent your separ¬ating—if you are married, keep a good look out,for some is about to alienate the affections of yourpartner—in trade it promises prosperity; but someone will cheat you of a trifle not of much conse¬quence—if you are a farmer, you will have anabundant crop—if yon undertake a voyage by sea,' you will be greatly the gainer by it; and if youexpect any place of preferment, after much troubleyou will attain it. To dream you are dressed incrimson, denotes that the dreamer will live to a goodold age, and will be neither fortunate or unfortunatethrough life : you are about to experience some verypleasant news from a distant quarter, and from thoseyou thought dead. Your sweetheart will be obligedIto leave you but will continue faithful to you—ifyon are in trade, you will experience some loss by aperson that you had great confidence in, but you will,at nearly the same time, get a job that will amplyimake you amends—it denotes a small dispute be¬tween a landlord and his tenant, which will be set¬tled amicable to the advantage of the latter. Todream you are dressed in a variety of colours, de-< otes a variety of fortunes are about to attend you ;) Id friends will desert you, new ones will supply| heir place—if you are in love, a quarrel will takei« lace between you and your sweetheart, which will3l fter much uneasiness to both parties, be adjustedby friends—be cautious in what you do for someij|fime, for many traps will be laid to ensnare you,3 but on no account trust yourself on the water; re-Lations will shortly die, and if you have any child-r.jren, sickness will attend them—-if you are sick at' the lime of the dream,it denotes a happy and speedy6recovery. To dream you are fashionably drcst,and in good company, is very good for the dream¬er ; he will rise considerably above bis present con¬dition—your sweetheart will prefer you aboveothers, and be very good tempered; whatever yonundertake will have a prosperous issue, and someunexpected news of an agreeable nature will reachyou—expect to see a long absent friend return ingood circumstances; but avoid having a disputewith any one, for it will go against you and doharm, perticularly if it be with your sweetheart.To dream you are dressed shabbily, that your clothesare ragged and torn, is a bad omen.Asses. To dream you are riding on an ass, isthe foreruner of some foolish quarrel in which youwill be much in the wrong, and condemned by yourfriends—if you are in love, it denotes that someimisunderstanding will happen between you and:your sweetheart, in which you will be much in fault■—if yon are in business, it foretels that yon will!make some foolish bargain. To dream you aredriving an ass, denotes that you will fall into sometrouble, of which you will get the better, and thatlyou will be relieved from present embarrassments,—if you are in love, it denotes that some quarrelwill take place betwixt your sweetheart and your¬self, which will soon be made up again to your advantage. To dream an ass runs after you, denotesthat some slander will be raised against you by somefoolish person, who will become themselves the vic¬tims of the scandal raised against you.Acquaintance. To dream you quarrel or fightwith an acquaintance, it is an unlucky omen, itforebodes a division among your own family, muchto the injury and prejudice of the dreamer—if yov7ere in love, your mistress will prove tmtaitiiful, andmarry some other man that she has told you shemost hates,—if you are in business, some heavy losswill befall you ; you will disagree with some of yourbest friends on the most trival matters, which willend in an open rupture,—if you are a farmer, expect a had crop, the murrain amongst your cattle ;that your pigs and poultry will fail and not fetchgood prices,—if you have a lawsuit, depend thatyour attorney will neglect you, that your witnesseswill he tardy and backward, and that finally youwill lose your cause. Do not for sometime under¬take a journey by land, or a voyage by sea ; enterfor the present into no new undertaking, for youwill be unsuccessful; quit, if you can, your presentplace of residence; and, above all, avoid lendingmoney, for you will surely lose it together with thefriendship of those to whom you lend it. If youdream that you are with an acquaintance at someplace of public amusement, you may expect soon tobe called from home on business of importance.Dancing. To dream you are dancing at a ball,wake, or entertainment, fortels that you will shortlyreceive some joyful news from an absent friend,and that you are about to inherit some unexpectedlegacy; it fortels success and happiness in love ; thatyour sweetheart is kind and true, and will makeyou very happy in marriage; to the sailor, it de¬notes a pleasant and successful voyage ; increase ofchildren to married persons and of business to thosein trade.Devil. To dream of this professed enemy to thehuman race, denotes that many dangers will threatenyou, all of which you will overcome ; it fortels of alawsuit, in which your adversary will endeavoui8secretly to undermine yon, nevertheless you willget the Letter of him, and put him to shame ; if youare in love, it forebodes that some is endeavouringto aleniate the affecfsions of your sweetheart, hut willbe unsuccessful; to the tradesman it denotes a gooddeal of business, attended with many troubles; tcthe poor it denotes good employment; and to thesailor, a wife with a great sum of money.Death. To dream you see this grim lookingbundle of bones, denotes happiness and long life;and you will be either speedily married yourself,or else assist at a wedding. To dream that you aredead, also denotes a speedy marriage, and that youwill be successful in all your undertakings ; to thosethat are married it fortels young children, and thatthey will be dutiful, and give you great comfort.To dream you see another person dead, denotes illusage from friends; if you are in love, your sweet¬heart will prove false; if you are a farmer, you willlose money by horses, and be way-laid as you returnfrom market.Dogs. To dream of these domestic and faithfulanimals, has very different significations, accordingto the manner in which you see them,—if theyfawn and fondle upon you, then it is a lucky omen,if you have had a quarrel with a friend or sweetheart, Nit will be reconciled to your advantage; if you arein love, your sweetheart will marry you, and ren¬der you very happy; it denotes health, riches andhonour: if they are barking and snarling at you,then depend that enemies are secretly endeavouringto destroy your reputation and happiness; if youare in love, be careful of your present sweetheart;if you marry him or her, you will be unhappy andooor; if yon dream they bite yon, then it is a car-9tain prognostic that you will experience some loss:if you are in love, your sweetheart will deceive yon,and make you very unhappy.Drowning. To dream you are drowning, or thatyou see another drowned or drowning, portendsgood to the dreamer, and denotes that he will escapemany difficulties, settle near his native place, marry,have children, and become happy and rich: to thelover it denotes that your sweetheart is good tem¬pered and inclined to marry you. If you are a sailorit fortels a favourable and a pleasant voyage.Eating. To dream you are eating, is a veryunfavourable omen; it portends disunion amongyour family, losses in trade and disappointment inlove—storms and shipwreck by sea. To dream yousee others eating, is of a contrary tendency, andfortels success in all your present enterprises; ifyou marry the present object of your affections, thatyou will grow rich, be happy, and have dutifulchildren.Eyes. To dream you lose your eyes is a veryunfavourable omen ; it denotes decay of circumstan¬ces, loss of friends, death of relations, and miscar¬riage in love—If a woman with child dreams of it,it denotes that the child in her womb will be veryunhappy, and before it arrives at years of maturity,lose its liberty.Feasting. To dream you are at a feast, denotesthat you will meet with many disappointments,i particularly in the thing which you are most anxi -mus about: in love it forbodes much uneasinessj between sweethearts; and to them who are mariried, it foretels undutiful children, with many heavyI losses.Fall. To dream you fall from any high place10or from a tree, denotes loss of place and goods—ifyou are in love, it surely indicates that you willnever marry the present object of your affections.To the tradesman it denotes decline of business ;and to the sailor storms and shipwreck.Fighting. To dream you are fighting, denotesto the lover that you will lose the object of youraffections through a foolish quarrel: it also forebodesmuch opposition to your wishes, with loss of char¬acter and property. After such a dream I wouldadvise the dreamer to quit his present situation,because such a dream indicates that you will notprosper in it; to the sailor it denotes storms andshipwreck, with disappointment in love.Fire. To dream of the subtile elements, denoteshealth and happiness to the lover, marriage withthe object of your affections, and many children : italso denotes that you will be very angry with someone on a trifling occasion. To dream you see burn¬ing lights descending, as it were from heaven, is avery bad sign indeed; it portends some dreadfulaccident to the dreamer, such as being hanged, los¬ing your head, having your brains dashed out,breaking your legs, getting into prison, or otherstrange accidents.Flying. To dream you are flying, is a very ex¬cellent omen; it fortels elevation of fortune, thatyou will arrive at dignity in the state, and be hap¬py. If you are in love, your sweetheart will betrue to you, and if you marry you will have manychildren.Fortune. To dream you make a sudden fortuneis a very bad omen; to the tradesman it denoteslosses in trade, quarreling with his creditors, andthe loss of liberty; to the lover it denotes that your11iweetheart does not return your love ; to the sailorit indicates storms and shipwrecks.Friend. To dream you see a friend dead, be-ikens hasty news, of a joyous nature ; if you are) i love, it fortels a speedy marriage with the ol>. set of your affections.! Fruit. To dream offruit, has a different inter-k relation, according to what the fruit is that youi ream of. Apples betoken long life and success ;c; boy to a woman with child ; cheerfulness in yours iveetheart, and riches by trade.—Cherries indicate[disappointment in love, vexation in the marriagefixate, and slight in love.1—Figs are the forerunners: F prosperity and happiness,—to the lover theyrenote the accomplishment of your wishes,—to thetradesman, increase of trade,—they are also indicaiiive of a legacy.—Gooseberries indicate manyiliildren, chiefly sons, and an accomplishment ofur present pursuitsto the sailor they declarengers in his next voyage,—to the maiden a rov-g husband; and to the man a rakish wife.—louts if you see clusters of them, denote riches and(j appiness, to the lover success and a good temperedeetheart—if you are gathering of them, it is notgood omen, for you will pursue some matter thatill not turn out to your advantage ; if you crackem, the person who courts you, or to whom youy your addresses, will treat you with indifference,id be very unfaithful.—Oranges are very badnens ; they forebode loss of goods and reputation,tacks from thieves, wounds, and fickleness in thoiject of your affections.—Pears prefigure elevationlife, accumulation of riches and honour, successundertakings, and constancy in love. If a wo-with child dreams of them, she will have a12girl who will marry one far above her rank beforeshe is seventeen.—Strawberries denote to womenwith child a good time, and a boy; to a maidenspeedy marriage with a man yvho will become rich,and make her happy; to a youth, they denote thathis wife will be sweet tempered, and bring himmany children, all boys; they foretel riches to thetradesman and the sailor.Gallows. To dream of the g;Jlows is a most ‘fortunate omen; it shews that the dreamer willIjecome rich, and arrive at great honours; to the .lover it shows the consummation of his most san¬guine wishes; for a woman with child to dream ofthe gallows, signifies that she is pregnant of a son,have a good time, and that the fruit of her wombwill become very rich.Gifts. To dream you have any thing given toyou, is a sign that some good is about to happen toyou; it also denotes that a speedy marriage willtake place betwixt you and your sweetheart.Grave. To (bream you see a grave, fortels sick¬ness and disappointment,—if you are in love, dependyou will never marry your present sweetheart; if 1you go into the grave, it shews you will experiencea loss of property, and that false friends will defameyou,—if you come out of the grave, it denotes suc¬cess in your undertakings, that you will rise in theworld and become very rich; and if you are in love,that you will speedily marry your sweetheart,— ifyou take another out of the grave, you will be themeans of saving the life of a person, who will be avery great friend to you, and receive some unexpect¬ed legacy.Hanged. To dream you see people hanged, orthat you are going to be hanged yourselfr denotes13that yon will rise above your present condition bymarriage.Hills. To dream of travelling over steep hills,shews that you will encounter many difficulties,and enter upon some arduous undertaking: if youdescend the hill hastily, you will get the better ofall your difficulties and enemies, and become rich;to the lover it shews rivals, who will give great un¬easiness.House. To dream of building a house, is a veryfavourable omen; if you are in trade it denotessuccess—if in love, that your sweetheart is goodtempered and faithful, and will make you very hap¬py. To dream your house is burnt down, denotesmuch trouble and many difficulties, with the loss ofgoods and reputation. To dream you see yourhouse on fire, foretels hasty news, and that you willlose a near relation.Hunting. To dream you are hunting a fox, andthat he is killed, shews much trouble through thepretensions of false friends, but that you will discoverthem, and overcome all their machinations—if youare hunting a hare, it is indicative of bad success :you will be disappointed in your favourite object,be what it may—hunting a stag, if he is caughtalive, denotes good to the dreamer, and that he will34 be successful in all his present undertakings.Keys. To dream of keys, is favourable to a^person in trade—and to a sailor they denote someij gift, and the dreamer will become rich. To dream)'you lose a key, foreshows anger, and that you wTillQ lose a friend. To dream of finding a key, denotesi,an addition to your estate. If you are manied, it5also foretels the birth of a child: if you give ano¬ther the key, you will be speedily married; in love,14keys betoken faithfulness, and a good temperedsweetheart.Knives. To dream of knives is a very unpro-pitious omen ; it betokens lawsuits, poverty, dis¬grace, strife, and a general failure in the pursuit ofyour projects ; in love it denotes a happy marriagewith the object of your affections, and that you willbecome, by industry, rich, and settle your childrenhappy.Letters. To dream of receiving letters, is de¬monstrative of your being beloved by a person olthe opposite sex, who is very much your friend,and will do all in their power to render you happy.To dream of writing letters, shews success in enter-prizes, and that you will receive some very pleasant'•Vjtfs.Light. To dream you see a great light is ahappy presage, it denotes that you will attain togreat honours and become very rich,— in love, itshews a sweetheart of an amiable disposition, thatyou will marry well, have children, and be veryhappy,—if the light disappears all of a sudden, itbetokens a great change in your present situation,much for the worse, it portends imprisonment, andloss of goods, with unexpected misfortunes.Linen. To dream you are dressed in clean linen,denotes that you wall shortly receive some gladtidings,—that your sweetheart is faithful, and willmarry you,—that you will be successful in all yourpresent undertakings, and that you will receive ahandsome present from an agreeable youth,—if yourlinen is chequered you v/ill get a legacy from somefriend, and marry a very industrious person,—if itis dirty, then it denotes poverty, a prison, and disap¬pointment in love, with the loss of something valuable,15II Marriage. To dream you are married, is om-joas of death, and very unfavourable to the dream-; it denotes poverty, a prison, and misfortunes.0 dream you assist at a wedding is the forerunner1 some pleasant news, and great success. To(earn of lying with your newly married husband' wife, threatens danger or sudden misfortunes,d also that you will lose a part of your property,: jo the sailor it argues storms and shipwrecks, withinarrow escape from death.i1 Milk. To dream you are selling milk, denotesiat you will be crossed in love, that you will bei isuccessful in trade. To dream you are driukingii; milk, is the foreruner of joyful news and greataccess : if you are giving milk away, it shews youIII be successful in love, and marry happily, haveii ildren, and do very well. To see milk flowingrpm the breast of a woman, denotes success injlade; and in love, that you will have many chil-iifen, and that they will become rich by the indus-i y of their parents.If Mother. To dream you see your mother, is ati rtain prognostic of some agreeable adventurejising about to happen to you, and that you will'«ar from a friend at a distance. To dream you!e your mother dead, forebodes trouble and adver-ty, and that you will become very poor.Music. To dream you hear delicious music, isvery favourable omen; it denotes joyful news fromilong absent friend,—to married people, it denotesveet tempered children,—in love it shews thatmr sweetheart is very fond of you, is good tem-sred, sincere and constant. Rough and discor-ant music foretels trouble, vexation, and disap-ointment.16Nails. To dream yoar nails are growing longis very good, and denotes riche prosperity, andhappiness, great success in love, a good industri¬ous husband or wife, with dutiful children,—it alsofortels that you will suddenly receive a sum of moneythat will be of great use to you.Nightingale. To dream of this pretty warbler,is the forerunner of joyful news, great success inbusiness, of plentiful crops, and of a sweet tem¬pered lover. For a married woman to dream of anightingale, shews that she will have children whowill be great singers.Old fVomen. For a man to dream he is courting an old woman, and that she returns his love,is a very fortunate omen; it prefigures success inworldly concerns,—that he will marry a beautifulyoung woman, have lovely children, and be veryhappy.Onions. To dream of this useful vegetable, de¬notes a mixture of good and bad luck,—if you areeating them, you will receive some money, recoversome lost or stolen things, or discover some hiddentreasure ; your sweetheart will be faithful, but of across temper,—it also denotes attack from thieves,and a failure of crops,—it shews that you will beengaged in some disagreeable quarrel, perhaps withyour own family,—if you are throwing onions away;it is the forerunner of mischief and quarrels,—if youare in love, you will fall out with your sweetheart—if you are in trade, you will quarrel with yourcustomers and servants,—if you are gatheringonions, it betokens the recovery of some sick personof your family,—the receipt of some unexpectednews of a joyful kind, and a speedy removal fn myour- present situation.17Oven. To dream yon see an oven, fortels that/on are about to he separated from yonr family bychanging your present residence ;—it shews you anittack by thieves in some bye place, and also thatironr sweetheart is of a roving disposition, little; ikely to make you happy.Oysters. To dream you are eating oysters, is a• "cry favourable omen; if you are in trade, yourrasiness will encrease very fast, and you will be-;ome rich ; if yon are a farmer, you will have plen-jiful crops ; if you are married, your wife or hus->and will be very fond of you, and you will haveany children. For a maid to dream of eating:; ysters, shews that she will be quickly married to airoung man who will thrive much by industry, and'■iave many children hy her ; to a man, it denotesat he will marry a real virgin, who will be verynd of him, and bring him many children.Palm. To dream you are gathering of palm,onotes plenty, riches and success in undertakings,nd is a very good omen indeed; to a marriedoman, it is a certain token of her bearing children;a maid it fortels a sudden marriage with theouth she loves, that she will have many childreny him and that she will live very happy in thearried state.Pit. To dream of falling into a deep pit, showsat some very heavy misfortune is about to attendou, that jour sweetheart is false, and prefersJnother; to a sailor it forebodes some sad disastert the next port you touch at. To dream you aren a pit, and that you climb out of it without muchrouble, foreshows that you will have many enemies,) ind experience much trouble, but that you wiiovercome them, and surmount your difficulties.18marry well and become rich ; to a sailor, it denotesthat he will experience shipwreck, and be cast on eforeign shore, where he will he hospitably received,fall in love, marry a rich and handsome wife, quitthe sea, and live at ease on the shore.Pictures, To dream you are looking at beauti¬ful pictures, foreshows that you will he allured byfalse appearances into some unprofitable concern,that you will waste your time on some idle project,and that you will always he in pursuit of happinesswithout attaining it, in love it denotes great plea-Jsure in the enjoyment of the beloved object, ifcjpromises a handsome wife, a good husband, and:beautiful children.Paper. To dream of paper, is a good omen ; ifit is quite clean, you will be very successful inyour undertakings, marry the person you love,,have good and dutiful children, and be very happy,,if it is dirty and scribbled upon, then it shews tem¬porary want, and some unpleasant altercation; ifit is plainly Written, you will receive hasty news ofa good nature, make an advantageous bargain, andobtain some money by a legacy ; if it appears rum¬pled and carelessly folded up, it shews that some diffi¬culties will occur winch will give you much pain;if it is neatly folded, you will obtain your favourite1iish, be what it may. _ IPeacock. To dream of seeing this beautiful bird \is a very good omen; it denotes great success in |trade; to a man a very beautiful wife, much riches,and a good place; to a maid a good and rich bus- ifband ; to a widow, that she will be courted by one:who will tell her many fine tales, without beingsincere; it also denotes great prosperity by sea,,and a handsome wife in a distant part.19Pigeons. To dream yon see pigeons flying, im¬ports hasty nevrs of a pleasant nature, and great1 success in undertakings; they are very favourable! to lovers, as they announce constancy in your sweet¬heart, but also that the person you love will lie ab¬sent from you a long while on a journey; if yourlover is at sea, they denote that he has a pleasantvoyage, continues faithful, and will return rich.Plays. To dream you are at a play, is theforerunner of great good luck; it betokens greathappiness in the marriage state, and very greatsuccess in business; to a maid it shews speedymarriage with a young man, who will be very suc¬cessful in business, and acquire riches and honoursto make her very happy.Purse. To dream of finding a purse, is a veryfavourable omen; it denotes great happiness andunlooked-for prosperity ; in love it is the sure tokenof a speedy marriage, and the being dearly belovedby the object of your affections. To dream yo loseyour purse, shews the loss of a friend; in otherrespects it denotes some pleasant adventure is aboutto happen to you, by which you will be the gainer;to the sailor it denotes the loss of his sweetheartwhile at sea.Racing. To dream you are running a race, ISa token of good, presages much success in life, andthat you will speedily hear some very joyful news ;In love, it denotes that you will conquer all you.rivals, and be very happy in the union with the ob¬ject of your affections. To dream you are riding a'race, shews disappointment and anger, bad successin trade and in love; to a married woman, it de¬notes the loss of her husband’s affections, and thather children will be in trouble:20Rainbow. To dream yon see a rainbow, denotesgreat travelling and change of fortune ; it also fore-tels sudden news of a very agreeable nature; itannounces that your sweetheart is of a very goodtemper, and constant, and that you will be veryhappy in marriage: have great success in businessthrough the means of trading with foreign parts.Ravens. To dream you see a raven, is a veryunfavourable token, it denotes mischief and ad¬versity ; in love, it shows falsehood, and to themarried they forebode much mischief through theadultery of your conjugal partner ; to the sailorthey betoken shipwreck, and much distress on aforeign shore.Riding. To dream you are riding, if it be with ■a horse, is very unfortunate; expect to be crossed 11in love; if you are in trade, business will decay,and you will be very near bankruptcy; if you are 1a sailor it denotes perfidy in you’* sweetheart, and ’loose conduct with one of your shipmates; but ifit be with him, then expect the reverse ot thesethings will happen, and that you will obtain a sumof money by some speculation of which you havebut an indifferent opinion.Rods. To dream you are whipt with rods, de¬notes that you will meet with a perfidious friend,who will go very near to ruin you ; it also betokensyou being shortly at a merry-making, where youmust be careful of quarreling; if you do, it willturn out to your disadvantage: in love it denotes ![your sweetheart to be of a fickle disposition, andlittle calculated to make you happy.River. To dream you see a flowing river andthat the waters are smooth and clear, presageshappiness and success in life; to the lover it shows21constancy and affection In the object of your love,and that if you marry, you will pass a very happyand contented life, have fine children, mostly girls,who will be very beautiful; to the tradesman andfarmer, it shows prosperity and gain ; to the sailor,that his sweetheart will be hind and constant, andthat his next voyage will be lucrative and pleasant.If the water appears disturbed and muddy, or hasa yellow tinge, then it denotes that you will acquireconsiderable riches ; if you have a lawsuit, such adream surely foretels that you will gain your cause.Sheep. To dream you see a flock of sheepfeeding, is a very favourable omen; it denotes suc¬cess in life; to the lover it indicates your sweet¬heart to be faithful, of an amiable temper, andinclined to marry you; in the married state, it de¬notes children, who will be very happy, becomeI rich, and be great comforts in the evening of life;to the tradesman, it fortels increase of business,and accumulation of wealth, but also forewarnshim that he has a servant unworthy of his'confi¬dence ; to the sailor nothing can be a greater signof good luck, his next voyage will be pleasant andlucrative, and his sweetheart kind and true.To dream you see them dispersing, and runningaway from you, shows that pretended friends areendeavouring to do you an injury, and that yourchildren will meet with persecution and greattroubles ; in love, such a dream shows your sweet¬heart to be fickle, and little calculated to makeyou happy. To dream you see sheep shearing, isindicative of loss of property, and the affections ofthe person you love, also your liberty. To dreamyou are shearing them yourself, shows that you willgain an advantage over some person who meant to22harm yon, and that yon will get the hotter of difluculti.es, and marry the object of your affections.Spit. To dream you are in a kitchen turriinga spit, is the forert jiner of troubles and misfor¬tunes ; expect to be robbed, to lose your trade, tobecome very poor, and that yonr friends will desertyou : if your in love, it shows the object of youraffections to be of a bad temper, lazy, and doomedto misfortunes ajid poverty.Starching. To dream you are starching of linen,shows you will be married to an industrious per¬son, and that you will be successful in life, andsave money; it also shows that you are about toreceive a letter, containing some pleasant news.Squirrel. To dream of a squirrel, shows thatenemies are endeavouring to slander your reputa¬tion ; to the lover, it shows your sweetheart is ofa bad temper, and much given to drinking; if youhave a lawsuit, it will surely be decided againstyou: if in trade, sharpers will endeavour to de¬fraud you; and you will quarrel with your princi¬pal creditor.Swimming. To dream you are swimming withvour head above the vatei, denotes great successin your undertakings, whether they be love, trade,sea, or farming. To dream of swimming withyour head below (lie water, show's that you willexperience some great trouble and hear some veryunpleasant news from a person you thought dead.In trade it shows loss of business, and that you willperhaps be imprisoned for debt; in love it denotesdisappointment in your wishes.Swans. To dream of seeing swans denotes happi¬ness in the marriage state; and many cliildren whowill become rich and respectable in your old ago.23th joy and happiness; to the lover, they denoteI instancy and affection in your sweetheart; in trade;ey shew success, but much vexation from the disr asure of secrets.Si Tempests. To dream you are in a storm ormpest, shews that you will after many difficulties,rive at being very happy, that you will becometremely rich, and marry exceeding well. For ater to dream of being in a violent tempest, do¬tes thai^ you will have many formidable rivals,10 after causing you a great deal of vexationd uneasiness, you will triumph over. It alsobodes you will receive good news from a longsent friend, who is abroad, and who will haveercomo many hardships and extreme difficul-s.Thunder and ^Lightning. To dream you heartinctly thunder, and see lightning, is a very goodicn ; it denotes success in trade ; good crops toe farmer; and a speedy and happy marriage toe lover. If you are soliciting a place, you willtain it; if you have a lawsuit, it will go in yourour: it also indicates speedy news from a farjj staut country, intimating that a near relative hasi tained a very lucrative situation, in which he will$ tve an opportunity of doing his friends a greatI sal of good.v Trumpet. To dream that you hear the sound ofi trumpet is a bad omen, and denotes troubles andol isfortunes ; to the tradesman it presages the lossf< business; the farmer bad crops ; to the lovera sincerity in the object of your affections.ir Trees. To dream you see trees in blossom, de¬rates a happy marriage with the present object ofibur affections, and many children, who will all dor itremely well ia life; to the tradesman it denotes24success in business, anil to the sailor pleasant andlucrative voyages. To dream you are climbingtrees, denotes that you will make a fortune, andrise to honours and dignities in the state. Todream you are cutting down trees, fortels heavylosses by trade and by sea; and also the death of anear relation, or most dear friend.Water. To dream you are drinking water, de¬notes great trouble and adversity in trade, loss ofbusiness, and being arrested: to the lover it shewsyour sweetheart is false, prefers another, ^nd willnever marry you.Wheat. To dream you see, or are walking in afield of wheat, is a very favourable omen; anddenotes great prosperity and riches: in love, it au¬gurs completion of your most sanguine wishes,and mretels much happiness, with fine children,when you marry; if you have a lawsuit, you willgain it, and you will be successful in all your un¬dertakings.. ., <414