COMER'S CONFLICT:O R, T HEBeginners Battle with the Devil,WHENEiTaying to come to ChriO: by Faith,I NTwo DISCOURSES ftpog Luke is. 42. beforeand after the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, atKinglassie, July 20. 1735-BY THE LATjr'R EVER ENDMr. R A L KH E R S K I N E,Minifler of the Gofpel at Dunfermline.THE FOURTEENTH EDITION.GLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,[No. 18.] Saltmarket,1807,SERMON I.Luke ix. 42. /incl as he 'teas y' a coming, the Devilthrew him down and tart him.HERE is a hiitory of Chvift’s benling a lunatic cbildwhofc father came to the difciples, and they couldnot cure him : and now he cometh to Chrift. A s wc oughtto come to Chrilt ourfelves for healing, fo we ought tobring our children to him ; and when fervants and othermeans can do us no good, we ought to go to the Mailer,and look over the head of all miniflers and fervants. AfterChrift had reprov’d the difeiplea for their unbelief, he givesthe poor man an encouraging word concerning his fon.Bring thy fon hither, ver. 41. bring him to me. We oughtto bring our fons, and our daughters to Chrift, to bring ,our difeafes and all other various cafes to Chrift. But after ■this encouragment, follows a trial in the text. /Is he wasyet a coming, the devil threw him down and tare him.Jn which words we have three things cbfervable, namely, i:I. An excellent duty ; that is, coming to Chrill.2. An eminent trial and heavy difpenfatwn that btfelthe comer ; The devil threw him down and tare him.3. The time and jurdlure when this heavy trial and great 1affliftion befel him namely, /is he was yt a coming, thedevil threw him down and tare him.Hence we may obferve the three following particulars,x. The bell courfe t'hat any can take for relief fromwhatever ails them, is to come to Jefus Chrift the Saviour.2. They that come to Chrift for help will be an eye-forcto hell and the devil; he will be fure to fly upon them.3. They that come to Chrift for help and healing, tho*they may be fure he will help and fave them, yet they mayfind their cafe worfe before the relief come ; they may bethrown down, and torn as it were, to pieces by the way.Or thus, Chrift may undertake to deliver people, and yettheir diftrefs may grow upon their hand before their deli¬verance come. Here is Chrift undertaking, Btmg himhither to me. Here is the perfon coining with hope of deli¬verance, he is on Lis w:y coming to jfejus*, and yet beholdhere is a dreadful dafh a mighty trial to faith and hope,both in the Father and the Son : yea, after he was cometo the phyfician, and the healing word fpoken, as you fee,Mark ix. 25, 26. where this fame hifl my is recorded, withOther circuinftances, The fpirit cried, and rent him foreThe Comer's CorJliQ ; ts’c. 3re he came out of him, and fo he ova: as one dead, info-h that many /aid. He is dead.itVell, then, people that come to Chvifl, ana whom helertakes to heal and help, may have their diitrefs grow-f on their hand before their deliverance come, whichewill certainly come. vt is in this cafe, as it was with Ifrael in Egypt, ‘ GodItheir affliction, and undertook to come and fave them ;^yet, behold, before their fulvation comes, their bond-becomes heavier than before. The darkelt time ofit may be before day-break. Thus it was with Ifrael,iturning from Babylon, to rebuild the temple, in thei of Ezra and Nehemiah. The king gives comtnand-t to go and build; God ftirs up the civil authority to: encouragement to them ; but quickly the haters 06it, mifreprefenting the work, procure an order to caufeI to defiH from it. Tins do&rine then is verified bothrelation to God’s public work towards a church, and,-articular work on the fouls of his people, as you feeis with the ruler of the fynagcgue, Mark v. 2^. thatiied to Chrid in behalf of his daughter at the paint of1, that he itiight come and heal her. Ohrid wentII him ; but fee what fad news he gets from bis houfe,hie not the ma/ler, for your daughter is dead, ver. 35.now they looked upon the matter as hopelefs, though. Otritt was on his way to fave her.he dodtrinal obfervation, we would incline briefly toroute from thefe words, may be framed to the follow-jurpofe.Oct. ‘ That people who come to Cbrift, and whomhdertakes to heal aad help, may have their diftreflealing on their hand, before their deliverance come,. h yet will certainly come.’ne method we would lay down, for profecnting thisfl, through fupernatural aid, fflall be the following.SI will fpeak a little of coming to Chrift.Enquire in what refpeCts matters may grow worfe: ith people, even when they are thus coming to Chrift.jjf. Enquire into the reafons, whence it is that peoplejlwho come to Chrift for help, may find their diitrefsgrow before their deliverance come.. Make feme application of the whole.4 The Comer's ConfkQ} Or,I. We are to fpeak a little of coming to Chrift. Theiare only two things I notice here. Coming to Chrift f(help imports,I. A view that vain is the help of man ; vain is the he}of creatures; vain is the help of minifters, means and or<nances of themfelves. Thus it was here with the fatherthe child, / bcfought thy difciplcs, hut they could nit h:LSo they that come to Chrift Jindall refuges fail them.cxlii. 40; other phyficians were of no value. None conto Chrift till they can do no better; yet he is content wi;fuch comers, as fee there is no other fhift for them.This coming to Chrift imports a putting the workhis hand ; Mafter, / befeech thee hoi upon my fon ; He prajand he brings him to Chrift at the Lord’s call. Theytltruly come to Chrift for help, they put the work in his haBand give him employment in his faving offices, lookingshim as able, and willing, and ready to fave; the difeaf#half cured when it is laid at Chrift’s feet: Happy they ticome thus to him, and truft him with their fouls, and tr^him with their cafes: Commit thy tuay unto the Lortrufl alfo in him, and he tvill bring it to pafs, Pf. xxxvii.II. The fecond head propofed, was, to enquire in wlijrefpe&s matters may grow worfe with people, even withey are thus coming to Chrift. Here two things are |corded. The devil threw him down, and he tare him.They that come to Chrift, before they get the*lieliverance that is infured to them, may meet with doicalling providences, The devil threw him down: tlmay be call down with difeouragement and difponde!for a while, caft down with fears and doubts, call dciwith jealous appreheniions, and unbelieving thoughtslieving fouls, after their coming to Chrift, much monthey are coming at firft, may be greatly caft down with0 my God, my foul is cajl down within me, Pfal. xlii,They may be caft down with a multitude of ptrplesthoughts, defpairing thoughts, and manifold objedtand fcruples their minds raifes, or rather unbelief frawithin them.They may not only be thrown down, but tornthe way ; The devil threw him down and tareWhenever a man begins to come to Chrift, and the t|fears he lhall lofe his poffeffion, then he rages againft. lan, and would tear him to pieces. Therefore think notrange that beginners in religion, and fuch a., are coming,i|r but lately come to-Chrift, or even thofe who have comei irmeity, and are coining tigain to him, may be mightily(faulted by all the powers of hell. So long as people re-lain at a dillanct from Chrill, the Devil does not meddlej'ith them : He keeps the houjc, and th: goods are at peace :lut, in coming to Chriil, they may lay their account withery darts; when we expetd the Lord is about to removeme burden, he may lay on another, that he may havehe moie mercy on. us.111. The third head propofed, was to enquire into theeaions whence it is that people, who come to Ghrill forielp, and whom he undertakes to help, may itnd theiriftiefs grow before their deliverance come. Whatevernalicious hand the Devil hath in this matter,, God hathholy hand in permitting it.1. It is to (hew his whidom and power..( i.) It is to manifett his wifdom ;• how he can advanceids work, by the ftors in the way of it; and enrich hisjteople, by impoverilhing them ; enlarge them, by impri-toning them ; andgine them meat out oj the eatert andJweef\ ut of the Jlrong.(2.) it is to evince his power, and how he can fupportthem under, and deliver them from their ditlrefs, whichwould not appear fo much, if their dillr^fs came not to aheight. He fufters them to be dejedted and torn, thathis wifdom and power may appear the more evidently inlifting them up and healing them.2. It is to check the unbelief that attends our faith incoming to Chnft. Sometimes when we commit our cafeto him by faith, we do not exercifc this faith to a patientwaiting for the Lord, Chrift’s fnft word to his people is,-C'ome to me. Mat. xi. 28. His lall word is, Hhide in me,John xv. 4. It is well done to come, but alas! we do not(abide ; and therefore to check our unbelief in coming, as! if it were, but a ftep, and going back the next (tep, he’(hews the need of going forward, by letting loofe the en-icmy, and fuffering matters to grow worfe with us.3. It is to raife the worth and eftcem of his mercies inthe hearts of thefe that come to him. We do not knowthe worth of a mercy, till we be deprived of it, nor the■JW UhlrsUcnM}; cr.worth of deliverance, till the dUlrefa be extremely greathelp then isr highly efteemtd, when we can fay, / w,brought low and he helped me.4 It is to try our faith, whether or not it be fuchwill not only come to Chjiil, but alfo ftay with him till hwork the deliverance ; and if we can keep our eye upothe deliverei, when the deliverance is delayed, our eyupon the promife, when crofs providences appear, and cahope againil hope. He defigns the trial of faith for the:prefent, and a more glorious iflue hereafter. •IV. The fourth head propofed, was to make fome application. Is it fo, that people "who come to Ckrij}, anwhom he undertake! to heal and help, may have their dif~ \trefs growing on their hand before their deliver ance come,which yet will certainly come ? Hence fee,1. VV hat a cruel enemy the Devil is to immortal fouland their eternal falvation. For whenever a foul begins tomind religion in earneft, and to come to Chrift for helpand deliverance, then that foul becomes the objeft of theDevil’s fpite and malice. As long as people remain grace**fefs, and Chriftlefs, and formal, the Devil will let them en*.joy themfelves, and hug them afleep in their fecurity: butwhenever they begin to come to .Chrift, then he will at¬tempt to caft them down and tear them, and ftir up all hiswicked inftruments, either to difeourage and ridicule them,or to tear their nsme and reputation to pieces, and to per¬secute them with tongue or hand, and to raife a hue and acry againft them, as if they were turned diftra&ed and outof their wits. As they ate coming, the Devil throws themdown and tears them.2. Hence fee the reafon of all the melancholy moods,heavy damps, and great difeouragements of many begin¬ners, that are fetting on in the Lord’s way; tho‘ wifdam’sways be ways of pleafavtnejs, yet Satan, who is a liarfnm the beginning, would make the world believe, thatit is a bitter and unpleafant way, and that the beginningof religion is but the beginning of forrow.3. Hence fee the difference between the conviftion ofthe Spirit and the temptation of Satan, and the differencebetween the diftrefs of the foul, that arifes from* a law-work before converfation, and that which arifes from the af-fault of the enemy of our falvation; whenever conviftiouiiidu iv»v tr- '6"The Beginner’s Buttle ‘with the Devil. 7begins, and the fotd comes to be troubled for fin, aa-d underfear of hell and wrath, Satan ind *1 fifties in the drumlywater, and mixes hir. temptations with the Spit it’s coaivic-1 tions: and if he can bring all convictions to nothing, citherI by force or fraud, he will do it, that the convinced loul mayI never come to Chrift for cure; Satin nvillJlar.d at his rightIhand to refill him. But the difference between them ie,(i.) The consiftions of the Spirit are before a man)i come to Chrift, and tend as a (evere fchoolmafter to lead1 him to Chrijl, Gal. iii. 24. But the temptations of the, Devil are tfpecialiy when a man is coming to Chrift, in: order to keep him from coming. If the* Spirit ot God, bya law work, feem as it were, to call down the man, andfo tear him to pieces, the deiigm is to oblige him to go toChrift for help and healing; and to provoke hi;* to cometo the Saviour, and fly to the city of refuge. But the de-, fign of the Devil’s temptations, when he throws down and: tears the foul, is when he is coming, or as he is comingIto Clirift, in order to detain him from conning, or difeour-age him in coming.(2.) The conviitions of the Spirit are humbling, tend-i ing to make the foul defpair of help in bimfelf, or in God,1 out of Chrift. The temptations of the enemy are terrify-: ing, tending to make the foul defpair of help in Chritt,3 or in God thro’ him : the former fhuts the door of hopeby the law ; but the Devil would (hut the door of hope■ by the gofpel.4. Hence fee, there is no ground to blame religioni and religions duties, notwithftauding difeonragements and: !down-cafting trials in the way of duty; though mattersrgrow worfe with you in the way of duty, and in the wayof doming to Chrilt, blame not yourfelf for. coming toIlChrift, becaufe the devil attacks you by the way. Youi have enough to charge yourfelf with, though you chargeemot yourfelf too foolifhlv. It would be far-worfe with youif the devil and your own wicked heart prevail to take youoff from the ufe of promifing means. When, like Peter,you call: yourfelf upon toe water to come to Chrift, be notterrified, tho’ the Devil raife a ftprm; the Lord Jefus, yfaipon'tbe floodiy and is mightier than the noife of many wa¬ken, Pfal. xcii. 4. Never think the worfe of Chrift tho*limatters ieem togrow worfs with you, when you come to hintS The Comer's ConfliEi ; or,for reft, and yet find trouble; for it is the devil and theill heart that breeds all the trouble ; keep up honourablethoughts of the Lord Jefus; believe he can do for you*,and wait till you find that he will do. Bring wind fromall crofs providence* to haften you nearer to your refting-place: for all that come to him fhall find reft in fpite ofthe devil; fome begun reft here in time, however dilturb-ed by the devil from time to time, and by unbelief, untilreft be, perfe&ed in heaven.5. Hence fee an evidence of a true believer and comerto Chrift : if the devil be no enemy to your faith, you mayknow it is a fatfe faith. Maay have a faith that the devilis pleafed well enough with: and therefore he never troub¬les them nor it; but if you have faving faith, it will be theeye-fore of hell; or if you be truly coming to Chrift, you''may expeft the devil will be upon your top. No foonerdoth true faith begin, but the fight of faith begins. Somemay blefs themfelves they were afiaulted by the devil, andyet they are but fleeping, as it were, in his cradle; he isrocking them. Try your faith ; if it be from heaven, it willmeet with oppieflion from hell: IVe u/rrjilc no! agatnjlfiejh and llond, but again/} principalities, againjl powers,Ogainjl the rulers of the darknefs of this world, againft jpirit-ual wichednefs in high places. Eph. iv. 12. Therefore weare called as part of the Chriftian armour, to take theJhield of Jaith, whereby weJhall be able to quench all the fiery Idarts of the wicked, ver. 16—The devil may let you gopeaceably about duty, read and pray, and communicate,becaufe you may do thefe things carnally and formally, Iand go to hell when all is done: but if once you begin tocome to Chrift, or to go about any duty believingly, thenyou are on the way to heaven, and if the devil can, hewill draw you back, and throw you down with difeourage-ment, and tear you with temptations ; either as you arecoming or after you are come. But it is always the bellfaith that is moft oppofed by the devil.This Do&rine-may be applied by way of addrefs, 1. Tothefe who never yet came to Chrift for help and falvation.3. To thefe who are coming, in obedience to his call.I. We addrefs ourfelves to you who never yet came toiChrift for help and falvation. Oh ! flay not away from him/for fear of the devil, left be throw you down and tear yok]Jh1 •Tie Beginner't Battle <with the Devil. 9Sifttcr be thrown down by the way in coming to Chrift,ban thrown down to hell, with the devil, at la!t thei'and of God, who will throw you and the devil down tofiell if you do not come to Chrift. Better that the devil;;:ear you to pieces, when there is a deliverer, even Jrfus-atuand to deliver you from, him, than that God hi in felt tearif an to pieces when there furdl be none to deliver: Confiderthis, ye that forget God, left I tear you in pieces, and therebe fsne to deliver, Pf. 1. 22. Come, otherwife you remainilaires to the devil and your hilts. O be feniible of yourlilavery and malady ! know none can fave you but ourLord Jefus Chrift-: he is a mighty Saviour, and a mercifulone ; No name is given unfer heaven, ‘whereby a /inner canhe faved, but the name of Jefus. Put the work in his hand ;put your foul in his hand. Bring him here, to me, faysChrift, to the man here. O come and bring your childrenwith you ; hear him faying, bring your fon to me, bringyour daughter t« me, bring your foul and your care to me,bring vour hard heart me, and I will foften it ; bringyour filthy heart to me, and I will cleanfe it; bring yourheart poffeft of the devil to me, and I will call out the de¬vil; bring your feven devils to me. and I will call them out.2. We addrefs ourfelves to you that are coming in anfwerto his call. O be not difmayed tho’ the devil throw youi down and tear you as you are coming Here is a Saviour1 ready to lift up when the devil throws down ; ready to heal,whom the devil tears ; ready to help all that are hurt byftbe old ferpent. It is his trade to deftroy the works of[the devil. You may he always fure that it is an evil fpiritthat is dealing with you, that would mar and hinder youiin your coming; for the voice of the Spirit of God is.Come; the Spirit and the bride f iy. Come. The Spirit ofGod, as a fpirit of bondage, may caft down t ie foul be-hfore it come to Chrift, and in order to its coming, but it3 is not the Spirit of God that throws down the corning(believer: no; IVe have not received the Spirit of bandagei again unto fear, Rom viii. 15. After coming to Chrift,and believing in him, it is only the devil that cafts down> and tears you. Fear not the lion of heil; here is the Lion■ of the tribe of Judah to defend you, it is unbelief, and1 departing from Chrift, that may bring you to the greateftI danger ; therefore, fear not, only believe.IOThe Comer*s Conflift; or,SERMON II.n[rTHIS doftrine may he -applied, at the time, in at# rexhoFtation or advice, particularly to thefe that ar«Jtempted and torn of the devil, when they eflav to cometo the Lord Jefus Chrift. In order to your being fortified, -through grace, againft his aflaults and fiery darts, thereare only fix forts of temptations, I would at prefent en*deavour to fortify you againft. t. With reference to heart- -blafphemy. 2. With reference to heart-wandering. Withreference to the commiflion of fin. 4. With reference to ithe omiflion of duty. 5. With reference to unworthyapprehenficns of God. 6. With reference to all thefethat you need to be fortified againft; while you are com¬ing to Chrift, Satan may attempt to throw you down,and tear you in all thefe, and many other rtfpe&s : butI fttall touch a little at each of thefe.rft, There are temptations of Satan with reference toblafphemy, whereby he would throw down and tear inpieces, as it were, the fouls of thefe that would come to ,the Lord Jefus Chrift. They may be tempted to dread¬ful biafphemous thoughts, which are not to be named,they are fo deteftable and abominable; they are fearfulinje&ions upon the mind, and very terrifying to the weakbeliever that is coming to the Lord Jefus Chrift. In or¬der to your being fortified againft thefe, I would offeryou the following advices.1. Be not terrified with them, fince they harm youmore by their horror than by their guilt. It is true, theguilt of them is fo great, that it is unpardonable to himto whom it belongs. Thefe are Satan’s fins, and not thine,and he fhall anfwer for them, and not thou. Though helay thefe hlafphemous thoughts at thy door, he is thefather of them- Such thoughts are like lightenings callinto a room, they have a great deal of horror; but as thelightening fprings sot from any caufe in the room, fo thefethoughts proceed not from any thing in thee ; not pro¬perly from thy corruptions, for unregenerate men them-fitlves abhor them : and tho’ the feed of all fin be in ournature, yet fcarce, if ever, doth this fin fpring up even inThe Beginner's Baltk with the Devil. 11ueprobates : nay the devil himfelf doth not think of GodIthat which thefe thoughts fignify. Since thou doft notactually, nor did originally in Adam, give confent to thefcthoughts, they are not thy fins. Suppofe fome villainIlhould meet a chaile virgin in a field and ravifh her, if (heftroggles and cries,, (he is innocent by the law of God:this is her affliftion, not her fin. She may mourn for herfufferlng, not her guilt; efpecially (lie doing nothing toiprovoke him. It maybe the villain.finds her at prayer, asthe devil doth find thee, when he eje£b thefe thoughts.Therefore be of good comfort, thou art more afraid thani hurt ; for a carelefs wandering thought iu prayer, hathi more guilt in it than thefe have. When Chr'fi was in the' wildernefs, the devil appeared to him in a vifib’r fnape, heknew it to be Satan, yet he was not in the lead terrified.We (hould endeavour to imitate him. If one attempt fud-! denly to ftrike our eye, tho’ we know lie doth not intendto ftrike it, yet it cannot but wink; fo we can fcarcechoofe but be terrified with thefe thoughts ; but we multrefift and conquer fuch fears. I fay not, we (hould abhorfuch thoughts, for then we (hculd be worfe than the hea-! rtiens : but we would not bt terrified out of our faith, orI duties, or comforts thereby.2. Do not give over your duties for thefe blafphemousthoughts and injeftions: for tho’ thefe thoughts are notthy fin, yet they may be the caufc of thy finning, if theycaufe thee to abftain from prayer, praife, reading theword, attending upon the ordinaaces, and the like duties;.'1 You may perhaps, think it better not to pray than to:! have thefe thoughts : hut thy prayer may do thee moreI good than thefe can do thee harm ; and how wilt thouconquer if thou caft away thy weapons ? Neither baftenfrom your duty ; for this you do the devil too muchhomage; his temptations (hould mike you pray the moreInot the feldomer or (horter.3. Think not over thefe thoughts again, even whenthou goeft to God to complain of Satan and his dreadfuliaifaults ; for, if thou yield not to the tempter, thefe blaf-phemies are not the matter of confeffion, hut rather ofcomplaint ; as a woman that is ravifhed doth not confe£»but lament her affii&ion. Neither (peak, them over, wheuyou go to a minifter or Chriftian friend for advice or com,-12 the Comer's Con/iid ; or,fort but only mention in the general, that horrid thought*and blafphemiea trouble you ; they will underftand whatyou mean; but, perhaps they had an good Satan Ihouldinjeft fuch thoughts, as to hear you name them.4. Pray much againft thefe blafphemiefl and thus ftudyto be gainers by them, and to be avenged upon Satan,which you may, if you do, as they did, A6ts xix. whenthey heard that fome would fpeak againft their goddefg IDiana, they cried out for the fpace of two hours, Greit it \Diana of the Ephejians, ver. 28. 34 : fo that whofoeverfhould go about to fpeak againft Diana could not be heard.Do thou likewife; when Satan throws in blafphemous jthoughts, break thou forth into blefling and praifing ofGod; and if thou canft not do fo, try to read or fingfome pfalm full of praifes, as Pfa. ciii. cv. cvi. cxlv. kc. :and if thou art private enough, read or ling them with aloud voice, and when Satan (hall fee that thou art the gain¬er by his temptations, he will be weary of tempting thee.Thefe blafphemies are Satan’s railings a?id revilinga againftthe God of heaven; therefore you are to do with them a*Hezekiah did with Rablhakeh’s railing letter, Ifa. xxxvii.14. He <went anil fpread the blafphemy before the Lord.He did not fo much as read over the letter, but fpread itbefore the Lord: fo without naming over that blafphemy,you fhould pray againft. it, that God would fnpprefs thisfmoke that afcends out of the bottomlefs pit.5. You may lawfully difpute and argue with Satan againftfome of his blafphemies; as when he tempts you to queftionthe being of a God, and the truth of divine revelation,as the archangel difputed with the devil about the body ofMofcs ; fo, when you are tempted, for example, to doubtif the fcripture be the word of God, you may confiderthe plain arguments that prove it, and afk Satan, Whydoft thou fly before it? if the ark were not the ark of God, <why doth Dagon fall before it ? if the word of God werenot the word of God, why doth Satan tempt thee not tobelieve it ? But do not depend upon thy arguing; Satanis too ftrong for thy reafoning ; betake thvfelf to theLord Jefus by prayer Tho’ Satan mav (land out againftthy arguments, he will not be able to Rand the prayer offaith. The archangel faid, the Lord rebuke thee. Tho’he will not fly at thy rebuke, yet he will, and mull, atT“he Bcginner’j Battle with the Devil. i Jthe rebuke of God. And by the way, fee the excel¬lency of Chrift above the archangel; Chrift rebukes Satan; by his own power and authority: For he faid not. The! Lord rebuke thee, but, Get thee behind me Satan.idly, There are temptations of Satan with referenceto heart wanderings in duty. Satan knows, if he can: get thefe flies to come and reft in this precious ointment,they will putrify it. He knows if the thoughts wander,God regards not what the tongue fay^; and if he can fpoilyour prayers, he fears not any ordinance what good it canI do to thee. If your thoughts be earthly, he cares not howheavenly your words are. Herein Satan gets affiftancefrom the evil heart ; Out of the heart proceed evil thoughts.Matt. xv. 19. They arife out of the heart as fparks outof the furnace ; they ftay not in the heart, but are aftiveand afcend up to the head ; and they come out of the1 heart, not as fparks out of a flint, by the concuffionand violence forced out of it, but they proceed out of' it, fays Chrift; they come out of themfelves, and theyproceed always in a continued a&.—Satan’s temptationsto heart-wandering in duty, ate alfo furthered by a mul-ftitude of bufinefs, and that two ways.( 1.) If we come from a mtiltitude of buftnefs ; for ourhearts are like the troubled fea, it mull have fume confi-derable time before it be compofed, tho’ the winds thatsraifed the ftorms ceafe; fo when we come from bufinefs,there muft be fome time after our bufinefs is ended beforeour hearts be fedate and Gt for prayer-; nay, in this ourihearts are worfe than the fea, becaufe,(i.) Future buGnefs will diftraft us before it come. Thefea is not tumultuous before the wind blow! but the bufi-mefs we have to do will trouble us before it comes to be done,lit is a hard thing to keep buGnefs out of our thoughts'when we pray, and make it Itay till our prayer is ended.Now, to fortify again ft thefe, I offer the followingicfour advices fliortly.1. O ftudy to mortify the love of the world : where ourove is, there will our thoughts be. To fet your love on;he world, and your thoughts on God, you will find alto¬gether impoflible ; He that lovcth t he world, the love ofthe Father is not in him. O fcek to mortify this.2. Lay up your treafure in heaven; for where your trea-14 The Comer*f Conjlifl; or.Jure by there <wi/lyour heart be alfo. Mat. vi. 21. The heartof the Jews went after their covetoufnefs, Ezek. xxxti.31. when they were hearing the word they could not keeptheir thoughts where their bodies were, but they wouldbe where their love was, and where their treafure was.3. Let not the world be your familiar friend, for fami*liar friends come in without knocking or aiking leave ;therefore be 'thou a ftranger in thit prefent <ivorld> Heb.xi. 13. They were not ftrangers in this or that part of theearth; but in the whole earth; be a ftranger to the world,and the world will not vifit you in prayer.4. Make prayer your delight, not your talk. Childrenare fubjeft to look off their books, becaufe they delightnot in them; but when they are playing, they are esger andearneft. The bird flutters in the cage, but fits quietly onthe tree, and fings there : / will go to God, fays David, toGod my exceeding joy, Pf. xliii. 4, When our thoughts findfatisfaftion, they fet up their habitation, and wander not.3dly, They are temptations of Satan with reference toomiflion of duty ; as for example, he reprefents to themthe difficulty that there is therein. O, I cannot praynor hear aright ; I cannot meditate nor mortify aright ;therefore I may let it alone. Now, in order, to fortifyagainft this temptation, confider,1. That this is neceffary ; you muft be exercifed untogodlinefs; exercifed in keeping a confcience void of offencetowards God and man, and be fiediajt and immoveable,alwayi abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing thatyour labour/hell not be in vain in the Lord, 1 Cor. xv. 58.As for the wicked, who are otherwife difpofed, having noheart nor will to the 'Lord’s fervice at all, what can weexpert at his hand, but this, take the/e mine enemiet, thatwould not that 1 Jhould reign over them, bhing them hither,and flay them before me ? yea, he will come in flaming fireto take vengeance on them that know net God, and obey not thegofpel. It is therefore abfolutely neceffary.2. Confider, that it is poflible to ferve the Lord accept¬ably bv his own grace. Tho' duty be difficult to nature ;yet if you get the Spirit of God to help you, you will dowell enough; and God hath promifed his help, Ifa. xl. 29,—3 t. He geveth power to the faint, and to them that haveno might he increafeth Jlrength, &c. They that wait on theTht Beginner'* Buttle •with the Devil. 15Lord Jhall renew their Jlrength. Hence all the faints , ofold, and of late too, have tried the Lord’s way, and foundthat the way of the Lord was ftrength to them; yea, thatwtfdom’t ways are pleafuntnefs ; their delight was in thelaw of the Lord; In keeping of his commands there is agreat reward. One fmile of God’s countenance is worth allyour pains, tho’ you were at a hundred times more. Thereis always fome things favoury and fweet in religion thataccompanies the fedulous exercife thereof. Tho’ the foulhath nothing to claim on the account of its own works ori duties; yet the Lord is gracioufly pleafed to own and coun¬tenance his own way, when the foul is found in it, befidei the glorious and gracious reward that abides it in heaven.Therefore, let faith batter down this temptation ofi Satan, faying. What tho’ Satan prefent difficulties inthe way, Chrift underwent greater difficulties; he hath: borne the burden and the heat of the day. I am not cal-I led to go and fatisfy juilice ; Chrilt hath done that toi my hand; I am not called to go and fulfil the law as a: covenant of works; Chrift hath done that to my hand;ii I am not called to work for life, but to work for love tohim that worketh all my works in me, and for me, andit who, as he calleth me to this work of love, fo promifethto work in me both to will and to do ; and therefore, inhis name and ftrength, I will go forward, making men¬tion of his righteoufnefs, and his only ; and in his name,I will encounter and grapple with the devil himfclf, forSChrift hath conquered him to my hands.4thly, There are temptations of Satan with referenceto the omiffion of fin : he will fuggeft to them that it isbut a little fin, and God will not be angry for a little fin;fuch as a lie in droll, an idle word, &c. can fuch a littlefin endanger the foul ? Now to guard you againft thistemptation, confider,1. That the firft fin which brought all mankind into aiv miferable ftate, was, in appearance, but a fmall and littlefin : it was but eating a little forbidden fruit, the taftirgof an apple ; yet, had it not been for Ohrift’s fa»tsfac-tion, it would have deftroyed irrecoverably all the pof*I'terity of Adam There was a man, firs, that patheredl a few flicks, upon the Sabbath-day t you would haveilthought that was but a little fin, yet God’s thoughts are16 The Comer’s Cor ft 3 ; or,not as your thoughts, for God thought that fin worthyof death, Num. xv. 32, 35. Uzzah’s putting his handto the ark, and touching it when it tottered, feemed tobe but a fmall fin, and yet you know he was fmitten in-ftantly-with death for it, 2 Sam. vi. 7. It is dangerousto give even a little wrong touch to a tottering ark.2. Confider the nature of every fin ; though forne arecomparatively fmall, and others greater; that is, by reafonof feveral aggravations, more heinous in the fight of Godthan others; yet, in themfelves none are fmall. The leaftfin is againft an infinite God; and infinite authority; andfo, objectively confidered, an infinite evil; and thereforecannot be expiated without infinite fatisfaftion ; and it isnot little promifes, or little threatenings that your littlefins do flight; yea, there is no little ingratitude towardsGod in little fins, there is great unkindnefs to God in lit¬tle fins : To difpleafe God, your beft friend, for a little fin ;O ungrateful thing! Is this your kindnefs to your friends?* The wages of every fin is death eternal.’ It is not littlemifery that every fin doth expofeyou to. Will you makelight of the wrath of the infinite God? Then do not make |light of little fins. In a word, remember that boldnefs inHide fins, will be an encouragement to greater. Sin is ofan encroaching and bewitching nature ; a little thief mayopen the way to a greater. The devil tempts people to gofrom one degree to another: he tempts them to the reverfeof the blefled man, mentioned Pfal. i. 1. He tempts themto ii'aU in the counfel of the ungodly; having taken awalk with them, he tempts them next to Jland in the wayof Jinners, which is more ; and then having Hood a whilewith them, he tempts them iafl of all to fit on the feat ofthe fcornful, even to the height of wickednefs. The devilfirft makes you fit down with a drunkard, then to drinkwith him, and at laft to be drunk. Thus he leads peoplefrom unclean thoughts to unclean looks, words, and aCtions: ,therefore, let faith refill this temptation, and fet you uponyour watch againft that which you call a little fin. No manthat ever faw fin truly, can call any fin little or fmall, norcan it ever be, till there be a little law to break, a littleGod to offend, a little guilt to contraCl, a little wrath toincur; all which are impoffiblc to be, blafphcmy to wilh,and madnefs to exped.3S2.The Reginner’s Batik with the Devil. 175thly, There are temptations of Satan with referenceco unworthy apprehenhons of God. Satan may fnggeftvery il.ange thoughts of God, very bafe thoughts of God,moft unfuitable apprehenfions of him, fuel) as are not toJoe fpoken of; and the prince in this world hath much inus, who are lo ignorant of God, to further thefe miihapen^thoughts of God. And to fortify you againfl thefe af-■ faults, there are thefe two directions 1 would offer anentthe way how we are to conceive of Geo.(1.) We are to conceive of him as inconceivable; forthe thoughts we arc to have of him are overwhelmingthoughts. As long as we art merely aflive, and are ableto mafter our thoughts of God, they are utterly unworthyof him. Whatfoever we know, comprehenfively i mean,icxcept we fee it he infinitely beyond us, that is not God,nor to be adored. I have read a dialogue between a Chrif-itian and a Gentle : The Gentle feeing the Chriftian very:fervent in prayer, and feeing no image before him, afkedhim, ‘ Whom he worfhippedheanfwered, ‘ I know not.’‘ Why then do you worfhip him ?’ ‘ I therefore worlhip* him, fays he, becaufe I cannot know him.' 4 It ieems* ftrange, faid the Gentle, to fee one fo ferioufly worfhip1 * that he knoweth not.’ ‘ More ftrange it is for one,/aid‘ Chriflian, to worfhip what we comprehend.’ If we are not> loft in our thoughts of God, our thoughts of God are loft.When we throw a done into a pond, it makes circles largerand larger, and quickly they come to the fhore ; but if one1 fhould throw a milftone into the midft of the cahn ocean,tho’ it would make larger and larger circles, yet it would1 not reach the ftiore, becaufe the ftrength would he Ipent' long before it came the length; fo when we think on thecreatines, we eafily enlarge our thoughts fo as to fee an endof their perfeCfion, and to be more than comprehenfive ofI their excellency; but when we think of God, we can never- know him to perfection. Pfal. cxix y6. Here our know¬ledge muft end in admiration, and our love in extafy.Nay, we muft conceive of God as above all words, above; all knowledge, and above all admiration ; and above allI love, and above all extafy. But let us go to feripture,God knows beft how to fpeak of himfelf, and we may#( faftly acquiefce in feripture expreflions, Nch. ix. 5. '1 hyname is exalted above all praife, above the pratfe of menbe exaltec18 The Comer ’i CorjliR ; or,and angels ; this is a very high exprtfiion, but doth threach him ; Nay, if it did, God would notabove all praife, fince this would reach him.(2.) We are to conceive of God in Chrift: Chrift mube eyed in our addrelTes and adts of vvorfhip. All the foimer conilderations fet us but at a greater diftance froGod, and make us afraid of God, and fly from him, if Wigo no further; and indeed, human reafon can go no further,The utmoft it can do, is, but to think of mercy withouapiomite, which is a very arbitrary thing; mid we fee thaGod hath not ihown mercy to the fallen angels; for nevetwas, any devil converted ; therefore we mull neceffarilyhave thought of Chrift : life are to honour' the Son as-iuthonour the Father ; and to honour him,t. As a king, God hath exalted Chrift far above all hea¬vens ; and hath commanded us to do all in his name; ana’whatfoewr you do in loord or deed} do all in the name of thtLord JeJus, Col. iii. 17. He orders that all men Jhould.honour the Father, John v. 23. I fhall relate a hi (lory tathis purpofe; It is this, Theodofius the Emperor havingmadean edidi for the giving liberty for the Arians to preachAmphilochiua took this courfe for prevailing with the Em¬peror to recal that edibt. Theodofius having made Arca-cius co-emperor and Cefar with him, feveral b’fhops cameto falute the Emperor, to congratulate Arcadius and to Jig-nify their confent to Theodofius’s a6f, and by their refpediand honour done to Arcadius, to (hew that they took himfor the fuccefforof Theodcftus in the empire ; among other#came this Amphilochiusv bifhop of Iconium, who, after hehad done obeifance very fubmiffively to Theodofius, wa*going away without thewing any refpeft to Arcadius, tho’he fat by r heodoiius in all his royal robes ; Theodcfinstherefore called to Amphilochius, faying, ‘ Know you not‘ that 1 have made Arcadius my Son Emperor with me ?’upon which Amphilochius went to Arcadius, and linkinghim on the head, faid, ‘ He was a very hopeful boy.’ Thtodofius being very angry at this indignity done his bon,commanded him to prifon. Amphilochius, after he hadgone a little way, turned back, faying, ‘ 0 Thtodofitis,* you are angry that I gave not your (on the fame honour* I give you, fince you have made him equal in majelly to* yourfelf; and think you God will be pleafed that youThe Beginner's Battle with the Deiil. 19* fi:ffer the Arians to abufe Chrift, whom he hath fet at‘ his right hand in glory, and will have all men honour* the Son as they honour the Father.’ Upon which theeditt was reverfed. I may fay, can you think that Godwill accept your worlhip to him, be it ever fo great ; ifyou take no notice of Chrift, be fure God will rejectyou and your fervices. But then again,2. As God will have Chrift to have the j^lory of his King¬ly-office, fo alio his Piieftly. Thus, inppofe fome greatmonarch, his fon confecting, (hould lay upon his fon thepunifhment due to fome rebellious fubjefts, intending hisfon’s honour as well as their pardon; the king fends forthi a proclamation to them to let them know mat his fon hadI fatislied juftice, and procured a pardon; hut many of themi not trufling to this, would not come hi, hut would fend the1 kinggifts and prefentsto gain his favour; thyemperorfeernsI their gifts upon that account; efpccially tlie'y thus robbinghis fon of the honour of making their peace, and thereby1 alfo plainly (hewing, that they thought their crime was notfo great, but a fmall matter would make it up, fuch as theiri gifts. Surely if gifts would have done the bufmefs, his fonhad greater gifts than theirs; fo that he needed not havedied or fufVered. The icddition of tin’s fimile may be eafilymnade: God abhors our prayers, almr, and all our fervices,I if we bring them as fatisfadfory to his juftice, and fprinkleour puddly-waters, our tears, upon the mercy-feat, andfill the holy place with the (linking favour, the itinkingvapours of our prayers, which are unperfumed with the1 incenfe of Chrift’s righttoufuefs, or that are no better than■ the reeking fteams of a dung-hill, the noxious vapours of afollow cavern, or the fmoke of fome fulphurious vulcano';I I fay, to go to the holy place with thefe, inftead of theTncenfe of Chrift’s merit and interceffion, is nor to make anatonement, hut a provocation. This makes popifh'aufterities(to be adts of pride, inftead of being adls of mortification.3. God will have him get the honour alfo of his Pro-nlphetical-office: for it is by his Spirit that he inilrudfs andreaches us how to pray as well as perform. By his merit:we have acceptance, and by his Spirit affiftance- If a childnhould write fome excellent track in the mathematicks inGreek, tve would infallibly conclude fome did learn him, oridlate to him; fo when you pray in the fpirit, and fpiritual-20 7he Comer’s CorfTifl ; or,Ijr, for fnch or fuch fpiritual bleffings, who do you thinkdiftates«to you? This is not your mother-tongue; doubt-lefs it is the Spirit of Chriil that helps your infirmities Ina word Chrilt, by his active and paffive obedience, where¬by he hath fatisfied juftice, magnified the law, appeafedthe wrath of God, and obtained eternal redemption torfinners, hath a wonderful intereft with God, more than ailthe angels of heaven, infomuch that God delights to par¬don the greatetf of finners for Chriii’s fake : therefore,in prayer, conceive of God as a great, an infinitely greatGod; and as a God in Chrift. Look on God thro’ Chrilt,keeping the humble fenfe of your own difiance and, pro¬vocation; look upon God as thro’ Chrift the moft com-paffionate fondeft Father in the world ; if he give theenot every thing thou thus atkeft, it proceeds not from hisunwillingnefs to give, but thine unfitnefs to teetive.6thly, There are temptations with reference to felf-mur^der. Satan many times tempts people, particularly theftsthat are coming to Chrift, he throws them down and tearsthem, urging them to tear themfelvcs to pieces, to makeaway themfelves, and cut off the thread of their own life.This is a fubjeCt 1 feldom or never took occsficn to fpeakin this manner upon; but now, 1 think it the more neeef-fary that we are living in a time, wherein we are compaf-fed about with awful inftances of profeffors being left un¬der the power, and fwallowed up with the violence of thistemptation ; yea, fuch inftances thereof, as have perhapsmade the hearts of many here prefent to tremble. Andfince what hath been, may be, and not knowing but infuch a great company as is here, fome one or other maybe under fuch temptations, I would offer thefe followingadvices (hortly to fortify you againft thefe aft'aults.1. Confiuer, that felf-murder, is a fin againft the verylight of nature, and the very letter of the law ot God,Lx. xxii. t y Thou jkalt not kill. And you may be fure,that no thought of this fort, that enters into your heart,can be from God; for it hath the very image of the devilupon it: He n>as a murderer from the beginning.2. Yield, not to the tempter} for tho’ this is a temp¬tation incident to God’s people,-infomuch that, perhaps,there are few of them that have not been thus tempted, asthe Lord Jefus himfelf was, to whom the devil faid, Cajl- rl'hf. Beginner’s Battle with the Devil. 2 tthyfelf .down from the pinnacle of the temple ; yet we readof no faint in fcripti.re that yielded to the tempter. Weare therein told of none but wicked wretches that deltroyedthemftlves fuch as Saul, Ahithcphel, and Judas; and fareyou would not defire to be like either of them.3. Confider the contrary pra&ice of the faints in ferip-ture, both in their belt and word time—Old Simeon ^otan armful of Chrift, and did he now attempt to cut off hisown life that he might win away to heaven.' No he wifhesto be away, but he puts himfelf in God’s will, Nova iettcjlthou thy fervant depart in peace. Paul was wrapt up tothe third heaven, and his delire of death mull have beenvery great; yet he is content to ftay till he is difiblved.Again on the other hand, if pain of body, and terrors cfmind, might contribute to ftrengthen fuch a temptation.Job did not want his fhare of both; yet inftead of puttinga period to his own days, though indeed he curfed theday of his birth, and wilhed for the day of his death, yethe fays, All the days of my appointed time, tuitl ! wait tillmy change come, Job xiv. 14.4. Consider, that by fuch horrid fuggeftions, as thefe,you are tempted to aflume to yourfeU a prerogative thatbelongs to God only. It is he that lives for ever and everthat fays, I kill, and / make alive, I wound, and I heal.Dent xxxii. 39. Your life is not your own to difpofe of;and as you cannot lengthen your life, fo you may notIhorten it. Therefore,5. When you are thus tempted, keep not the devil’scounfel, nor be thou his fecretary; go to fome faithfulminifter, or experienced Chriftian, and tell them howyou are tempted; for this temptation is partly conquered,when it is revealed.6. Thofe that think they {hall be damned and go to hellwhen they die, it is the greateft madnefs in the world forthem to haften their death. That the fear of hell (houldmake them leap into hell, is fo contrary to all commonfenfe, tuat it is a wonder that anyone fnould fo much ceafeto be a man, not to fay a Chriftian, as to do a thing focontrary to nature, let be to grace. Let me a{k you, Canyou endure to be among blafphemers? Can yon endure toblafpheme God your(elf for a year together, or an hour,and to fpend it all in curfing and blafpheming l if your foul22 Tht Comer’t Confix ; or,abhor this, why will you leap into hell, a place of ever-lading blafphemy ? I read of one who having been a longtime tempted to make away with herfelf, at laft refolved todo it, for the thoughts of the torments of hell were notprevalent enough to deter her ; but as fhc was going todeftroy herfelf, it was brought to her mind, that in hell(he fhould blafpheme God for ever, which die abhorringto do, upon that very account forbore the wicked a&ion.If you were only to be in a date of horror and torment,it were fad enough; but for thee to put thyfelf into a dateof blafphemy, how cand thou endure to think of it.7. Take heed of fighting againd Satan with humanreafon, for this leviathan laughs at the (baking of thisfpear; his fcales are too clofe to he pierced by it; buttake the fword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,which divides between the joints and the marrow ; fayto Satan, It is writtci, thouJhall not kill.8. Pray, pray much ; for the fvvord of the Spirit mudbe wielded by the (kilful arm of the Spirit. If thou goedout in confidence of thy being able to manage fcriptureby thy own drength and (kill, it will (are with thee as itdid with thefe. Aids xix. 1 y, 16. They thought to cajlout devils by toe rusme of ffefus, but the devil rent andwounded them and made them to Jly, faying Paul, and JefusPknov: t but who are ye ?The great argument that the devil ttfes to perfuade theeto felf-murder, is by perfuading thee that thou art a repro¬bate ; but thou mayed confider that Satan cannot knowthat thou area reprobate: was Satan, think you in God’scouncil when he made his eternal decrees ? Satan, who isnot fo much as one of God’s hired fervants, but a flaveand a malefaftor kept in chains, he is fo far from being ofGod’s, council, that he is not fo much as one of his family.If thou fayed, thy confcience tells thee that thou art a re¬probate; know that no man living can ted who are repro¬bates ; nor can any man know himfelf to be a reprobate,except he hath committed the fin againd the Holy Ghod,which no man hath committed that is forry to think he hathcommitted it; for it is impojftble that fsch a man jhould berenewed either by or to repentance, Heb. vi. 6.Ye tint walk in darkbefs and fee no light, that are haunt¬ed with thefe temptations, confider what a Ged we haveThe Beginner's Battle ‘with the Devil. 23i> do with ; we ferve fuch a great Lord, that all the rao-archs of the world are beggars to him ; and fuch a gra-lous Father is our God, that the tendered parents in thelorld, and your deareft friends are tyrants, yea, wolves,sd tygers compared to him. And if we (hould provokeiern, as we provoke him, and they could as eaiily crulhI as God can, we would quickly find that their tenderedi;rcies are cruelty; whereas the feveral providences of GodII be to thee, not like the g?dl of afps, bitter and deadly,t like God’s rhubarb and aloes; by which thine iniquity-ill be purged, an.l ail the fruit of it Jhall he to takemy thy fin ; and though for the prefent the afflicting hand•God upon thee, is not joyous, but grievous, yet if thou artTcifed thereby, it will bring forth in thee the quiet fruit ofhteoufnefs. Lay afide therefore your fears of hell, andd thoughts of God.i3ut now, to add no more particulars, let me exhort you,1 alt that hear meK to come to our Lord Jefus Chrift;rtever oppofition from hell ftands in your way ; andl’ the devil Jhould throw you down and tear you as youcoming, yet Chrift will lift you up. and heal you. Oh!rt offends the world at our Lord Jefus ? Will yon tellj finner, what alls you at Chrift ? What difobliges you»is perfon ? Is he not the brightnefs of his Father's ylo¬an d the chief among ten thoufand? Is he not the Rorelaradife, the Heart of heaven ?-—What ails you at his:es? Is he not a Prophet, that can teach you; a Pricft,: can atone for you; a King, that can conquer for you?SVhat ails you at his relations? Is he not a Shepherd toyou ; a Phyfician, to heal you ; a Father, to pity you;hifband, to cherifh you?—What ails you at his doing,blfil the law for you ; or his dying, to fatisfy jufticeIrou ?—What ails you at his yoke! is not his yoke eafy\\his burden light ? His ways pleafantnefs and his paths•* ?—What ails you at his grace and glory ?fhat ails you at him, Sirs ? O ! is he not worth your r;, though you fhould run through hell, to come to1 ’ Is there not a heart in all this company that would;se at him. Alas ! would you rather go to the devilucome to Chrift! That a comely Jefns cannot get twofree hearts in all this company, O pity, pity ! and afand pities, that the beauty of the God-head cannot14. TTbe Comtr’s ConfliB ; &c.get a loYer ! will you all be fo tnad as to run by Chrtto other lovers while he begs your love, as if he werupon his knees, and fends us to pray you in his fteadbe reconciled with him, and come to him.And therefore, Sirs, in his blcfied name I pray younot by him. I beg it as the bed favour you can do to 1Mailer and me, that you come to him ; l befeech youthe mercies of God, and by the bowels of Chrift, thtlyon come to him. He will welcome the word of you tlulwill come to him; and if you but endeavour to dretch otthe withered hand, or put out the withered heart towahim, he will help you to it, and embrace you with haiand heart both. He is content to come to you on aiterms-, and will you not come to him ! he dands at t;door of your heart, and waits that you will but allow hilto come in, and let him have accefs. Have you a hrheart ? he would be in to foften it ; are you pleafetHave you a filthy heart ? he would be in to wafii it : ;you content ? Have you a wicked heart ? he wouldin to renew it: are you fatisfied ?If you will not come to him, will you let him come!you, that he will make you willing ? Confider what is jcoming. O firs, is not a day of calamity coming ?‘and vjwill you not come to Chi id? Is not a day of death CC|ing ? and why will you not come to him ? Is'not a dayjudgement coming ? and why will you not come to hiOr, why come you to any thing elfe ? why come youordinances, if you will not come to Chrid : for he islife of ordinances ? Why come you to fermons, ifcome not to Chrid, for he is the fubdance of all fermiWhy come you to a communion-table, if you will not cto Chrid ; for he is the heart of communion ? Why dohope for heaven, if you will not come to Chrid ; forthe all of heaven, the heaven of heavens! A thoufandvens are lighter than a feather, when laid in the balliwith him. Had I the tongue of a feraph, I couldl]commend him enough to you ; but, O may he cornu,himfelf to your heart, and caufe you to throw your imi,tal foul into his Caving arms, notwithdanding all the dicading temptations of Satan, and whatever obje&ionoppofitions dand in the way of your coming to himG!afgow, Printed by J. M. Robertfon, Saltmarkct, 1