CHEAP TRACTS,Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity. ■No. VII.REFLECTIONSAMONG THEMonuments.Extracted from Meditations among theTombs, by the Rev. Mr. Hervey.I he man how wife, who Jzck of gaudy fcenes,Is led by choice to take his fav'rite walkBeneath death's gloomy ,f lent, cyprefs JhadeS,Unpierc'd by vanity's fantajlic ray !‘To read his monumen ts, to weigh his duflVijit his vaults, and dwell among the tombs l' I III   I I —DUNBAR:I Piinted by G. Miller :—at whofe Shop may be had a variety of2’rmphiets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Bidlures, Catechifais.&c.wholesale and retail.* REFLECTION^AMONG THEMONUMENTS,fpafs, roith melancholy Jlate.'Ey all thefe folemn heaps of fate ;And think, as jaft and fad 1 treadAbove the venerable dead,“ Time ivas, like me they life poJfefs,d •<e And time ■will be vihen l{hall rejl.”Parnsl,YONDER white ftone, emblem of the. innocence it covers, informs the be¬holder of one, who breathed out ks tenderfoul almoft in the inftant of receiving it.—Happy voyager; no fooner launched,than arrived at the haven But moreeminently happy they, who have pafied the■waves, and weathered all the ftorms of atroublefome and dangerous world ; who,“ through many tribulations, have enteiedinto the kingdom of heaven and there-Iby brought honour to their divine Convoy,adminiftered comfort to the companions oftheir toil; and left an inftru&ive exampleto fucgeeding pilgrims*( 3 )Highly favoured probationer ? accepted■without being exercifed ! It was thy peculiarprivilege, not to teel the flighteft of thofeevils which opprefs thy furviving kindred ;which frequently fetch groans from the moftmanly fortitude, or moft elevated faith; the .*arrows of calamity, barbed with anguilh,are often fixed deep in our choiceft com-*forts. The fiery darts ©f temptation, fhotfrom the hand of hell, are always flying in(bowers around our integrity. To thee*fweet babe, both thefe diftrelfes and dangerswere alike unknown.Confider this, ye mourning parents, and<3ry up your tears. Why fhould you lament,that your little ones are crowned with vic¬tory, before the fword was drawn, or theconflict begun ?—-Perhaps, the fupremedifpofer of events forefaw fome inevitablefrtare of temptation forming, or fome dread¬ful ftorm of adverfity impending. And whyfhould you be fo diflatisfied with that kindprecaution^ which honied your pleafantplant, and removed into fbeiter a tenderflower, before the thunders roared ; beforethe lightnings flew ; before the tempeftpoured, its rage ? O remember ! theyare not loft, but taken away from the evilto come.At the fame time, let furvivors, doomedto bear the heat and burden of the day, fortheir encouragement, refleft,—that it kC 4 )more honourable to have entered the lifts,jjjpnd to have fought the good fight, belorethey come off conquerors. They who haveborn the crofs, and fubmitted to affli&iveprovidences, with a cheerful refignation,have girded up the loins of their mind, andperformed their Matter’s will, with an honedand perfevering fidelity;—thefe, havingglorified their Redeemer on earth, will pro¬bably be as ftars of the firft magnitude inheaven. They will fhine with brighterbeams, be replenifhed with ftrongerjoys,in their Lobd’s everlafting kingdom.Here lies the grief of a fond mother, andthe blafted expedlation of an indulgentfather.**—The youth grew' up, like a well-watered plant; he fhot deep, rofe high, andbid fair for manhood : but juft as tl\e cedarbegan to tower, and promifed ere long tobe the pride cf the wood, and prince amongthe neighbouring treesbehold ! the axeis laid unto the root; the fatal blow ftruck ;and all its branching honours tumbled tothe duft.—And did he fall alone? No: Thehopes of his father that begat him, and thepleafing profpedts of her that bare him, fell,and were crulhed together with him.From this affecting reprefentation, let pa¬rents be convinced how highly it concernsthem to cultivate the morals, and fpeure theimmortal interetts of their children. If youreally love the offspring of your own bodies;IC 5 )if your bowels yearn over thole amiable pled¬ges of conjugal endearment; fpare no pains, ,give all diligence3 I entreat you, to “brin^them up in the nurture and admonition**' of the Lord.” Then may you have joy intheir life, or confolation in their death. Iftheir fpan is prolonged, their unblameableand ufeful conduct will be the itaff of yourage, and a balm for declining nature. Or,if the number oi their years be cut off in themidft, you may commit their remains to theduft, with much the fame comfortable expeflations, and with infinitely more exaltedviews, than you fend the lurvivors to placesof genteel education. You may committhem to the duft with cheering hopes of re¬ceiving them again to your arms, inexpref-fibly improved in every noble and endear¬ing accomplifhment.It is certainly a fevere trial, and muchmore afflictive than I am able to imagine,to refign a lovely blooming creature, fprungfrom your own loins, to the gloomy receflesef corruption. But, O ! how much morecutting to you, and confounding to thechild, to have the foul feparated from God;and for fhameful ignorance or early impietyconfigned over to places of eternal torment!On this hand is lodged one, whole fepul-chral ftone tells a moft pitiable tale indeed!Well may the little images, reclined overthe fleeping allies, hang down their heads( 6 )with that penfive air ! None can conflderfo mournful a ftory, without feeling fometouches of fympathizing concern.^His agptwenty-eight; his death fudden ; himfelf-cut down in the prime of life, amidft all thevivacity and vigour of manhood : while**'his breafts were full of milk, and his bonesmoiftened with marrow.”——Probably he !Entertained no apprehenfions of the evilhour. And indeed, who could have ful-pedted, that fo bright a fun fhould go downat noon ? To human appearance, his hillflood ftrong. Length ol days feemed writ¬ten in his fanguine countenance. He fola-ced himfelf with theprolpedl of a long, longferies of earthly fatistadlions.—When, lo ! antinexpeded flroke delcends ! defeends from,that mighty arm, which “overturndth themountains by their roots; and crulhes the“ imaginary hero, before the moth asquickly, and more eafily, than our fingersprels fuch a feeble fluttering infedl to death.Perhaps tb- nuptial joys wereall bethoughtcn Were not inch the breathings of his en-arr ouied soul ? ‘ Yet a very little while,** and Ifhall pdf -ssthe umotlot.my withes.“ I fhall call my charmer mine; and in her“ enjoy whatever my heart can crave.” —Who can tell, but the bride-maids, girdedwith gladness, had piepared the marriage-bed ! had decked it witn the nclieft covers,and drefled it in pillows of down ? Wne%( 7 )—O'n ! truft nat in youth or ftrength, -or in: any thing mortal; for there is nothing cer-I tain, nothing to be depended on, beneath.I. the unchangeable God;—Death, relentlessif death, is making hftn another kind of bedI in the dufl: of the earth. 0n this he mulltake up a lonely lodging, nor ever be releat-i ed, till “the heavens are no more.”—-In vain| does the confenting fair one put on her or¬naments, and expeft her fpoufe. Littlethinking that the intended bridegroomhad for ever done with tranfitory things:that now everlafting cares employ his mind,without one {ingle remembrance of his lovelyLucinda !—Go, difappointed virgin ! go,mourn the uncertainty of all created blifs!Teach thy foul to afpire after a fure and im¬mutable felicity! For the once gay and gal¬lant Fidelio fleeps in other embraces; evenin the icy arms of death! forgetful, eternal-j ly forgetful, of the world—and thee.—another monitor befpeaks me, from aneighbouring ftone. It contains the nar¬rative of an unhappy mortal, fnatched fromhis friends, and hurried to the awful bar ;without leifure, either to take a laft farewelof the one, or to put up fo much as a Tingleprayer preparatory for the other ; killed,according to the ufual expreffion, by a fud-den ftroke of calualty.Was icthen a random blow ? Doubtlefs,the fuoke came from an aiming, thoughC 8 )invifible hand. God prefidcth over thearmies of heaven; God ruleth among theinhabitants of the earth ; and God conduft-eth what men call chance. Nothing, no¬thing comes to pafs through a blind and un-<difcerning fatality. - If accidents happen,■they happen according to the exadt fore¬knowledge, and conformable to the deter-xninate counfels of eternal wildom. The, Lord, with whom arc the ifiues of death,figns the warrant, and gives the high com-mifiion. The feemin^ly fortuitous difafleris only the agent, or the inftrument, appoint¬ed to execute the fupreine decree. Whenthe impious monarch was mortally wound¬ed it feemed to be a cafual fhot. A certainman drew a bow at a venture*.—At a ven¬ture, as he thought. But his hand wasftrengthened by an omnipotent aid, and the(haft levelled by an unerring eye. So thatwhat we term cafualty, is really providence,accomplilhing deliberate defigns, but con¬cealing its own interpofition.—How com¬forting this refledtion ! Admirably adaptedto foothe the throbbing anguifh of the mour¬ners, and compofe their ipirits into a quietfubmiflion ! Excellently fuited to diflipatethe fears of godly furvivors and create a calmintrepidity even amidft innumerable perils!The marble, which graces yonder pillar,informs me, that near it are depofited theremains of Sophronia; the much lamented* I Kings *sii, 34.( 9 )3 Sophl'onia, who died in child-bed.—-How5 ohen does this calamity happen? The branchI (hoots; but the ftem withers. The babe'If fprings to light; but (lie that bare him.,! breathes her lad. She gives life, but givesit (O pitiable confideration!) at the ex¬pence of her own : and becomes, at once,a mother and corpfe.—Or elfe, perhaps, fheexpires in fevere pangs, and is herfelf atomb for her infant; while the melancholycomplaint of a monarch’s wo is the epi¬taph for them both ; The children t&t cometo the birth, and there is not ftrength tobring forth*/ Lefs to be lamented, in myopinion, this misfortune than the other.Better, for the tender ftranger, to be flop¬ped in the porch, than to enter only to con-verfe with affliction. Better to find a gravein the womb, than to be expofcd to a ha¬zardous world, without the guardian of itsinfantile years, without the faithful guide ofIits youth.This monument is diflinguifhed by itsfiner materials, and more delicate appen¬dages. It leems to have taken its modelfrom an affluent hand, direCled by a gener¬ous heart, which thought it could never doenough for the deceafed. It feems, alfo, toexhibit an emblematical picture of Sophro-nia’s perfon and ace-Omplifhments. Is herbeauty, or, what is‘more than beauty, herwhite robed innocence, reprefented by the* Ifaiah ,.r.xvii, 3.< 10 )»fnawy colour ? The furface fmoothly polidi-ed, like her amiable temper, and engagingmanners. The whole elegantly adorned,without either extravagant pomp or fordidnegligence ; like her undiffemblcd goodnefsremote from the lead oftentation, yet in allpomts exemplary. But ah ! how vain wereall the e endearing charms ! How vain theluftre of thy fprightly eye ! How vain thebloom ot thy bridal youth ! How vain thehonours ol thy fuperior birth 1 How unableto lecure the lovely pofleffor from the favageviolence of death ! How in effectual the uni-verfal efttem of thy acquaintance; the fond-nefs of thy tranfported hufband ; or eventhe fpotlefs integrity of thy charafter, toprolong thy fpan, or procure thee a (hortreprieve !—The concurrence of all thelecircumftances reminds me of thofe beautifuland tender lines,How lov’d, how valu’d once, avails thee not:To whom related, or by whom begot.A heap of dull alone remains of thee :*1 is all THOU art!—and all the}rcud fhall be!Yet, though unable to divert tl>e ftroke,Chriftianity is lovereign to pluck out thefting of death. Is not this the filent lan¬guage of thofe lamps, which bum; and ofthat heart, which flames; efthofe palms, whichflounfh ; and of that crown, which glittersin the well imitated and gilded marb’e ? Dothey not, to the difce#ving eve, defenbe thevigilance of her fait!?; the fervency of herdevotion ; her vi&ory over the world ; andthe celeftial diadem, which the Lord, therighteous Judge, (ball give her at that day?*How happy the hufband, in fuch a (barerof his bed, and partner of his fortunes lTheir inclinations were nicely-tuned unifons,and all their converfation was harmony.How filken the yoke to fuch a pair, andwhat bleffings were twifted with fuch bands?Every joy was heightened, and every carealleviated. Nothing feemed wanting toconfummate their blifs, but a hopeful pro¬geny, riling around them ; that they mightfee themfelves multiplied in their little ones;fee their mingled graces transfufed into theiroffspring ; and feel the glow of their affec¬tion augmented, by being refledted from theirchildren. “Grant us this gifr,,> faid theiramited prayers, “and our fatisfadfions arc‘‘crowned ; wc requeft no more.”Alas! how blind are mortals to future^events ? how unable to difeern what is real¬ly goodi Give me children, faid Rachel^or elfe I die. An ardour of impatience alto¬gether unbecoming, and as miflaken as itwas unbecoming. She dies not by the dif-appointment, but by the accamp'ifbment ofher dehre. If children are, to parents, likea flowery chaplet, whofe beauties bloffomwith ornament, and whoie odours breathedelight; death or lome fell misfortune, mayAnd means to entwine themlelves with the( 12 )lovely wreath. Whenever oGr fouls arepoured out, with paffionate importunity,after any inferior acquifition ; it may be tru- !ly faid, in the words of our divine Matter.Ye know not what ye aik—Does Providencewith hold the thing that v/e long for ? It de¬nies in mercy; and only with holds the oc-catton of our mifery, if not the inftrumentof our ruin. With a ttckly appetite, we oftenloath what is wholefome, and hanker afterour bane. Where imagination dreams ofonmingied fweets, there experience fre- jquently finds the bitternefs of wo.Here a fmall and pl&in ftone is placed up¬on the ground ; purchafed, one would ima¬gine, from the little fund, and formed bythe hand of frugality itfelf.I perceive, upon a clofer infpedlion, thatit covers the remains of a father; A reli¬gious father : fnatched from his growingoffspring, before they were fettled in theworld, or fo much as their principles fixedby a thorough education.This, fure, is the moft complicated dif-f refs, that has hitherto come under our con-lideration. The folemnities of fuch a dyingchamber are fome of the moft melting andmelancholy fcenes imaginable.—There liesthe afteiftionate hufband ; the indulgent pa¬rent ; the faithful friend ; and the generousmatter. Here lies, in the laft extremities,and on the very point of difiblution. ArtC 13 )has done its all. The raging difeafe mocks'the power of medicine. It haftens with re-fiftlefs impetoufity, to execute its dreadfulerrand ; to rend afunder the filver cord oflife, and the more delicate tie of focial at¬tachment, and conjugal affedtion.Thofe poor innocents, the children croijdaround the bed ; drowned in tears, and al-moft frantic with grief, they fob out theirlittle fouls, and paffionately cry, ‘‘Will he“leave us? leave us in ahelplefscondition!leave us to an injurious world !”Thefe feparate ftreams are all united inthe diftreffed fpoufe, and overwhelm herbreaft with an impetuous tide of forrows.In her, the lover weeps, the wife mourns,and all the mother yearns. To her, the lofsis beyond meafure aggravated, by monthsand years of delightful fociety, and exaltedfriendfhip.—Where alas ! can fhe meet withfuch unfufpedled fidelity, or repofe fuch un-referved confidence ? where find fo difcreeta counfellor, fo improving an example, anda guardian fo feduloufly attentive to the in-terefis of herlelf, and her children ?—See !how fhe hangs over the languifhing bed ;moft tenderly lolicitous to prolong a life, im¬portant and valuable, far beyond her own ;j or, if that be impracticable, no lefs tenderlyj officious to foothe the lafl agonies of herj dearerfelf. Her hands, trembling under dire-• ful apprehenfions,wipe thecold dewsfrom the\ livid cheeks; and fomethnes ftay the finking( *4 )head on her gentle arms, fometimes reft it onher compaffionate bofom.—See ! how Ihe ga¬zes, with a fpeechlefs'ardour, on the pale coun¬tenance, and meagre features! While all herfott paffions beat unutterable fondnefs, andher very foul bleeds with exquifite an-guifh.The fufferer, all patient and adoring,fubmits to the divine will; and, by fubmif-fion, becomes fupcrior to his arHiction. Heis tenfibly touched with the diiconfolate Hateol his attendants, and oierced with an anxi¬ous concera for his wife and his children;his wife, who will soon be a deftitute widow;his children, who will soon be helpless or¬phans. Yet, “tho* caft down, not in dis-pair.” He is greatly rcfrelhed by his truftin the everlafting covenant, and his hopeof approaching glory. Religion gives a dig¬nity to diftress. At each interval of ease,he comforts his very comforters ; and fufferswith all the majefty oi wo.The soul, jutt going to abandon the tot¬tering clav, collects all her force, and exertsher laft efforts. The good man raises him¬self on his pillow ; extends a kind hand tohis servants, which is bathed in tears; takesan affecting farewel of his friends ; claspshis wife in a feeble embrace ; kifles the dearpledges of their mutual love? and thenpours all that remains of tie and of ftrength,in the following words; -“I die, my dear( 1S )*‘children: but God, the everlafting God,'‘‘will be with you—Though you lofe an“earthly parent you have a Father in hea-“ven, who lives for evermore.—‘Nothing,“nothing but an unbelieving heart, and ir¬religious life, can ever feparate you from“the regards of his providence,—from the> “endearments of his love.”He could proceed no farther. His heartwas full; but utterance failed.—-\fter afhort paufe, prompted by affe&ionate zeal,/ with difficulty, great difficulty, he added,™   “ You the dear partner of my foul;| “you are now the only protestor of our or-!f “phans. 1 leave you under a weight ofi “cares.—»—But God, who defendeth theP “caufe of the widow,—God, whofe promtfeP>i “is faithfulnefs, and truth,—God hath faid,11 “I will never leave thee, nor forfake thee| “ This revives my drooping fpirits. 1 “Let this fupport the wife of my bolom  I “And now, O Father of compaffions, into| “thy hands I commend my fpirit.——En-* “couraged by thy promifed goodness, I leave| <emy fatherlefs” | —-the afflided family fearch forthefentence,i which fell unfinifhed from thofe loved, thofeI venerable and pious lips. They find it re¬corded by the prophet Jeremiah, coRtain-ing the diredion of infinite wifdom, and thepromile of unbounded goodnefs : Leave thyiatherlefs children ; I will preferve them( 16 ) «alive: and let thy widows trufl: in me—-iThis, now, is the comfort of their life, and thejoy of their heart. They treafure it op intheir memories. It is the beffc of legacies,and an inexhauftible fund. A fund, whichwill fupply all their wants, by entailing theblefiing of heaven on all their honeft labours.No sooner turned from one memento ofmy own, and memorial, of another’s deceafe,but a fecond, a third, a long fucceflion ofthefe melancholy monitors crowd upon myfight. That which has fixed my obferva-tion, is one of a more grave and fable a(pe£tthan the former. I fuppofe it preferves therelicks of a more aged perfon. One wouldconjedture, that he made fomewhat of afigure in his ftation among the living, as hismonument does among the funeral marbles, sLet me draw near, and enquire of the done.“Who, or what, is beneath its furface ?”—I am informed, he was once the owner of aconfiderable eftate : which was much inv |proved by his own application and man¬agement ; that he left the world in the bufyperiod of life, advanced a little beyond themeridian.Probably, replied my mufing mind, one ;of thofe indefatigable drudges, who rife :early, late take reft, and eat the bread of Icarefulnefs, not to fecure the ioving-kindnefs ■of the Lord, not to make provifion for anyreafonable necefiity, but only to amafs to- 1( I? ) ‘gciher ten thoufand times more than theycan pofiibly ufe.—But fee the tolly of worldly wifdom ! Howfilly, how childifh is the fagacity ot (what iscalled) manly and mafterly prudence, whenit contrives more folicitoufiy for time, thanit provides for eternity ! When every,wheel-moves on fmoothly ; when all thewell-difpofed defigns are ripening apace forexecution; and the long ex^efted crifis ofenjoyment feems to approach ; behold !God from on high laughs ar the Babel-build¬er. Death touches the bubble and it bieaks;it drops into nothing.Some, I preceive, arrived at threefcoreyears and ten, before they made their exit:nay, feme few refigned not their breath,till they had numbered fourlcore revolvingharvtfts. Thefe, 1 would hope, “remem-“ bered their Creator in the days of their<£ youth,” before their flrength becamelabour and fonow ;—before that low ebbof languifhing nature, when the keepers ©fthe houfe tremble, and thofe that look outof the windows are darkened; when eventhe lighting down of the grafhopper is a bur¬den on the bending fhoulders, and defireitfelf fails in the liftlefs lethargic foul;—before thofe heavy hours come, and thosetirelome moments draw nigh, in which, thereis too much reason to say, “We have no plea-f£ furein them j no improvement from them.”( i8 )If their lamps were unfurnilhed with oil,how unfit muft they be, in such decrepit cir-cumfiances, to go to the market and buy ’For, befides a variety of disoiders, arilingfrom the unfeebled conftitution, their cor¬ruptions muft be surprifingly ftrengthened,by such a long course of irreligion.Some, no doubt, came to this their laft |retreat full of piety, and full of days; ‘‘as a j“ fhock of corn, ripe with age, and laden j“with plenty, cometh in, in his feafon/’ M—Thefe were children of light, and wife ]in their generation ; wise with that exaltedwifdom which cometh from above: and withthat enduring wifdom which lafts to eternity^—Richalfo they were, more honourably andpermanently rich, than all the votaries ofmammon. The wealth of the one has made'itfelf wings and is irrecoverably gone ; j/hilethe wretched acquirers are tranfmitted tothat place of penury and pain, where not fomuch as one drop of water is allowed to cooltheir fcorched tongues, the ftores of the o-ther dill abide with them ; will never departfrom them; but make them glad, for everand ever, in the city of their God.What figure is that which ftrikes my eye,from an eminent part of the wall ? It is notonly placed in a more elevated fituationthan the reft, but •arries a more Iplendcd &fumptuous air than ordinary. Swords andipearsp murdering engines, and inftruments4( *9 ):i:i of flangbter, adorn the ftone with a formic!-liable magnificence It proves to be be ther monument of a noble warrior.! Is fuch refped, thought I, paid to the me-v mory of this brave foldier, for facrificing hislife to the public good? Then, whachonours, what immortal honours, are duei to tfie great Captain of our falvation ? who,I1 though Lord of the angelic legions, and fu-preme commander of all the heavenly hods,willingly offered himfelf a bleeding propitia¬tion for finners.Never, O my foul, never forget the amaz¬ing truth. The Lamb of God was feized,was bound, was fiaughtcred with the uttnoftinhumanity, and endured death in ail its bit-ternefe, for thee. His murderers ftudiouflycruel, to guided the faiai cup tha: ht tailedevery drop of its gall, before he drank, it ofFto the very dregs.What fuitable returns of inflamed and a-doring devotion, can we make to the HolyOne of God, thus dying that we might live?dymg in ignominy and anguifh, that wemight live for ever in the heights of joy, andfit for ever on thrones of glory. Alas ! it isI not in us, impotent, infenfible mortals, tobe duly thankful. He only who confersfuch inconceivable rich favours, can enkin¬dle a proper warmth of grateful affcdbon.Then build thyi'elf a monument, moft( 20 )gracious Immanuel, build thyfelf an everlaft- 'Iing monument, of gratitude in our foulsLet it ftand confpicuous and indelible, noton outward fables of ftone, but on the very |Inmoit tables of our hearts.What a poor fubftitute for a fet of me¬morable aftions, is polilhed alabafter, or themimicry of fculptured marble! The real jexcellency of this bleeding patriot is writtenon the minds of his countrymen : it would 1be remembered with applaufe, fo long asthe nation fubfifts, without this artificial |expedient to perpetuate it.—And fuch, fuchis the monument I wpuld wifh for myfelf.Let me leave a memorial in the breads ofmy fellow creatures. Let furviving friendsbear witnefs that I have not lived to myfelfalone, nor been altogether unferviceable inmy generation. O ! let an uninterruptedferies of beneficent offices be the inlcription,and the beft interefts of my acquaintancethe plate that exhibits it.Let the poor, as they pafs by my grave,point at the little fpot, and thankfully ac¬knowledge, “There lies the man, whofe“ unwearied kindnefs v/asthe condant relief“of my various diftrefles; who tenderly“ vifited my langRilhing bed, and readily“ fupplied my indigent circumitances. How“ often were his counfels a guide to my“ perplexed thoughts, and a cordial to myccC 21 )e dejedled fplrit ! It isowing to God’sblef-fing on his feafonable charities, and pru-44 dent confolations, that I now live, and“ live in comfort.”—Let a perfon , once;;ignorant and ungodly, lift up his eyes toheaven, and fay within himfelf, as he walks. over my bones, “Here are the laft remainsIf4 of that fincere friend, who watched fore my foul. I can never forget with whatc heedlefs gaiety I was pofting on in theIff* paths of perdition ; and I tremble to think,into what irretrievable ruin Imight quicklyhave been plunged, had not his faithful ad-“ monitions met me in the wild career. I4 was unacquainted with the gofpel of peace,4 and had no concern for its unfearchable44 treafures : but now, enlightened by his4 inftruclive converfation, I fee the all-fuf-ficicncy of my Saviour; and, animated by4 his repeated exhortations, I count all things44 but lofs that 1 may win Christ. Methinks,144 his difeourfes, fcafoned with religion, and“ bleifed by grace, flill tingle in my ears;; are ftill warm on my heart; and, I truft,: will be more and more operative, till we' meet each other in the houfe not made4 with hands, eternal in the heavens.”Yonder entrance leads, I fuppofe, to theault. Let me turn afide and take one viewf the habitation, and its tenants. What alemn feene ! how difmal the gloom! Here€ C< 22 )Iis perpetual darknefs, and night even atnoon day.-—A beam or two finds its way through thegrates ; and refie&s a feeble glimmer fromthe nails of the coffins. No vulgar dead aredepolited here. The moft illuftrious, andright honourable, have claimed this for theirlaft retreat. And, indeed, they retain fome-what of a lhadowy pre-eminence. They lie,ranged in mournful order, and in a fort offilent pomp, under the atches of an ample «fepulchre, while meaner corpfes, withoutmuch ceremony, “go down to the ftones of‘‘the pit.”Thofe who received vaft revenues, andcalled whole lordlhips their own, are herereduced to half a dozen feet of earth, or con¬fined in a few fheets of lead. Rooms offtate, and fumptuous furniture, are refignedfor no other ornament than the fhroud, forno other apartment than the darkfome,niche. Where is the ftar that blazed upon thebread; or the coronet that glittered roundthe temples ? The only remains of depart¬ed dignity are, the weather-beaten hatch¬ment and the tattered efcutcheon. I fee noiplended retinue furrounding this folitarydwelling. The lordly equipage hovers nolonger about the lifelefs mader. He has noother attendant, than a dudy datue; which,while the regardlefs world is as gay as ever,'the fculptor’s hand has uught to weep.( £3 )Thofe who gloried in high born anceftors,and noble pedigree, here drop their loftyjretenfions. They acknowledge kindredwith creeping things, and quarter arms withi .he mean* ft reptiles. They fav to corrup-Sion, Thou art my father ; and to the worm,Thou art my morher and my lifter. Or,hould they ftill aflume the ftyle of diftinc-|ion, alas ! how impotent were the claim !jhow apparent the oftentation ! It is faid byfiheir monument. Here lies the Great !SHow eafily is it replied by the fpectator ?—Falfe marble ! Where ? Nothing but poorand'fordid dull lies here.For now, ye lying vanities of life !Ye ever tempting, ever cheating train!Where are ye now? and what is youramount ?!What is all the world to thefe poor breath-efs beings ? what are their plealures ?^ bubble broke.—What their honours ? Abeam that is forgotten.—What the fum-otal of their enjoyments below ?Alas! it is Ihorter than a (pan, lighter*han the dancing fpark, and driven awayike the diftblving fmoke.Indulge, my foul, a ferious paufe. Re-zolledt all the gay things that were wont:o dazzle thy eyes, and inveigle thy affec-:ions. Here examine thole baits of fenfe;rere form an eftimate of their real value., ( 24 )I thank you, yc relics of founding titles,-and magnificent names : ye have taughtme more of the littlenefs of the world, thanall the volumes of my library. Your no¬bility, arrayed in a winding (heet; yourgrandeur, mouldering in an urn : are themoft indifputabie proofs of the nothingnefsof created things. Never, furely, did "Pro¬vidence write this important point, in fuchlegible chara&ers, as iij the afhes of MyLord, or on the corpfe of His Grace.—Let others, if they pleafe, pay their obfe- ;quious court to your wealthy fons ; and jignobly fawn, or anxioufly fue for prefer¬ments ; my thoughts (hall often refort, in |penfive contemplation, to the sepulchre oYtheir fires ; and learn, from their fleepingduft—to moderate my expeftations frommortals ;—to ftand disengaged from everyundue attachment to the little interefts octime —to get above the delufive amuse¬ments of honour, the gaudy tinsels of wealth,and all the empty fhadows of a perifhingworld.r ini sPrintciT ky G Miller, Dirnbut.