THULife and DeathSHEFFERY MORGAN,THE SON OFOLD SHON AP MORGAN.EDINBURGH:Printed for the Booksellers.^ - ‘-■ ■ r ' ' Ev >, J ; v ,> V;- ■: ’ij"* •IJI)'V y ' • ;-V ’tStHW 1W4-.■ S‘! -/ ■ . : > ■■> V■ •:• •; 1,I I '\ v' ,■ ■ ;'■■ ' , ;M: ; ’/ii> \<irl**l'. - ' rLife and DeathOPSHEFFERY MORGAN.The person we intend to treat uponin the following discourse, is one Shef-| fery Morgan, born in Derby, a placewell known in Wales, his father bel¬li ing a man of no small account, kepttwo or three hogs, and- brewed week forn week, the year round, half a peck ofi! malt; but, being a man so well*to passI in the world, resolved to bring up his_son Sheffery. scholar like j and iu orderthereunto, put hur to the greatest schoolin those parts, where hei improved hurtime so well, that in six or se»ven yearsi hur was able to spell hur flame with asmall matter of help. But not longafter hur fond father supposing hur fitfor the university* disposed of hur aocordtngly ; but Shtffery grew negligentunknown to hur father, and mindedmore hur waggery than hur study ; andhur father supposing hur to be capableto manage a parson’s place, took a fur¬ther care for hur, and went to the bishop,making suit for a benidce, which wasgranted, provided that hur should preacha sermon of approbation. Old ."'hot* apMorgan being joyful at this answer,writ post to her sonSheffery, wishing hurwith all speed to come, for hur was liketo become a Welsh parson, and have abenefit of j£40 per an, These goodtidings so tickled the ears of Sbefferythat, he omitted no opportunity, buttook horse, and rid fu’l speed to hurfather’s house in Wales, who said hurwas to preach before hur, and hur knewnot what to think Of it.The day appointed drawing near whenShefiVry was tu preach, being sensible of;bar inability, hut knew not what course:to take, or how hur should perform the:il v -task imposed upon hur; sometime buTthought to fly from the presence ofthe bishop and hur father, and thencontr >dicted that thought v^ifch this re¬solution, and if hur could not do aswell as hur should, that hur would doas well as hur could. So the day beingcome, Sheffery lay somewhat long inbed, and seemed lo have small stomachto his new concern ; which hur fatherseeing gave hur a call, telling hur thesaint’s bell rung in. Oh ! father, hursaid, l am in a brown study ; lookfather, upon the top of Mr Quibus’sif house, and behold a cow turd that liesI there, and I have been studying howt it might be, whether the top of theti house came down to the cow, orr whether the cow went up to the top!:i of the house! Oh, fye son, this is idle-jj discourse, come, make haste, for it,dra\vsc near ten o’clock, they bishop and people(begin to think you long. Well, father,I have but a short sermon to make^but it is such a tickler as has not beenpreached at your church since youcame to the parish. Weil, son, 1 shallleave that to your judgement. Shef*fery no sooner enters the church, but he/iisteps intQ the,pulpit and so began asfollows:“Gpo.d people, all hur knows there’s“something expecterl from hur' by“way of discourse, and seeing w<5 are“all met together, .take the following“ master as an undeniiable truth : There“ are some things that I know, and you“ know not; and there are some things“that neitner 1 nor you know; Tor“ thus, as I went over a stile, i torepay breeches, that I know, and you“ know not, but what you’ll .give meV towards the mending of them, that“ you know, and I .know not; butwhat the knave the tavlor will have“for pending them, that neither you*Vnor J Kpour.”The lushop hearing such a strangediscourse delivered as a sermon, fellinto sSp^h jt laughter, that he laughedhimsojf into .such a looseness, he wasforced tq carry his a—e under his armever after: And Shon ap Morgan fellinto such a passion, that hur solemnlyprofessed hur would disinherit hursom7: ,CHAP. II.How Sheffery travelled toward?London,and how he fell in with two Welspdrovers, fyc. n ,Sheffery travelled the toad, hav¬ing but little money in hi3< pUrse,fell into serious cogitations, ^ometitnescalling to mind the pleasant pastimeshe met with when he was at:the uni-'versity, and then thinking on the pre¬sent misery those vain pleasures hadbrought him to $ and while he re¬mained in this disconsolate humour,two of his courVtVymen overtook himwith a tiroSte of cattle, to whom he said,whither are you ’going ? who answered*we are drdVers- going to Srriithfield,but we want one to help us. ThenSheffery asked th'fy what they were tohave for their pains ?r who said a shil-ling. He concimlrd that he' was goingto the'same city, thought somethingbetter than nothing, so he joined' withthem ; at last they came to Smithfield,where the owner gave them a: wholeshilling, then was- their care to partthis one piece equally aiftongst three*;Sheffery being ingenious, said, we’li gochange it for three groats : to whichthey consented, So going from streetto street, at lust they came to Lotn-bardstreet, where Sheffery jspies a trayfull of groats, and cryed, here ‘ hurwill do it, if ever. The gentleman ofthe shop being at dinner, the hatchwas shut, and nobody in the shop butan old jackanapes, chained upon thecounterSheffery leaning over thehatch, said. Good Sir, will you givehur three groats for a shilling ? andheld the shilling forth, vyhich the jack-aaspes took, and put it down into theplace where he used to see his masterput money, and minded Sheffery nomore ; but hur was very urgent withthe jackanapes for hur shange j andsaid, stood sir, what does bur intent todo ?■ Will hur give hur three groatsfor a shilling or no ? but the jackanapesnot minding, stirred hur Welsh bloodup, fearing that the old shentlemanWas minded to cheat them, whichcaused a ^grtat proud about the door,so that, the gentleman of the househeard them, and coming into the shopto see what was the matter,, began to9be rough' with them, doubting the^intended to rob his shop, but they criedout, that they were poor Wefghniiiithat thought no hurt, but desired thresgroats for a shitting. The pfitkmsnfinding them to be thraO poor ignorantfellows, asked then? for ihdr shilling}they immediately told him the/ badgiven it to hur poor aged fathejy point*ing to the jackan The gentlemanm great wrath cried out, You v il vinfdo you think Pm the son of a jaeka*napes. And threatening to let thomby the heels ; but diseovefing th^jfSimplicity, asked them what the jajgk*a,napes did With it? quoth they, he putit into that hole. .So he suppoied itmight be, and gave them three groat!,bidding them be gone, so awsy wentSheffrry's countrymen to their plagesprovide ; fpr them, but Sheffery hadhur fortune to geek.fJBl’'P 'j‘;rtow vaaiHV.VO?.tdTIJchap. nr.l-Iora Slieffery took a journey toward theNorth, and how he got the good willof a sow, Qc.C1 <, * *- =* 4 ! ' ' ■* -*•. ** ' % Hi'Siieffery bjeing forsaken *by |iurcpuntrym^n,, and' almost moneyless,'wandering to -and fro, feasting' hureyes, but starving bur belly, re¬solved to travel furtl\er Rewards theNorth. Hur had not .gone abovetwenty miles, but W/jr was surprised bythe dismal night, till at ;(ast hur.hap¬pened upon a small cottage , and^hocking at the door, hyr, asked howfar it night be to the next town. Theold man answered, he Wj*s far fiom any.town or house pcept^Hjs* then Shefferybraved f’qr yntertainrneut; but the oldman said fie bad hone, hut hur pressedhard, so the man said, 1 have nd placefor you, except you will lie with oursow ; with all hur heart, quoth Sheffery.Ibis being agreed on, they went totheir bed, and 'Sheffery to hur hog-sty,which joined to the house, near theold man and woman’s bed head.Sheffery having but a sorry loosing,anti a turbulent bed-fellow, took norest at all; the old woman waked aooutmidnight, fell into discourse and said,husband, what if the young man fallin love with our sow, and forthwithget our good will to be married ? Why,quoth the ok! man, I shall not beagainst her preferment, it -they likeeach other. Ah ! but husband, she hasbeen an old servant, and k ever shegoes, I hope you will bestow somelhingupon her. Well, well, wife, I shan’tbe backward foi ten or twenty pounds,I will bestow, it the man be deserving.Shtffery, minding their discourse, aroseand went to the carrot field, and pul¬led some up, and brought them to thesow, giving her plentifully to eat, thentied the rest about his middle, under¬neath his coat; and going into thehouse td return thanks for his nightslodgings, the s5w having tasted thecarrots, raved as tho’ she would havetorn down the sty, longing for morecarrots j the old woman hearing tnesow rave, cried out to her husband,what is the matter with our sow ?quoth Slieffery, hur can tell best what12is the matter, for her and I have madea mi:ten to be married, and she finding:me gone without, causeth her to raveIn that sort. The old woman runswith speed to her husband, and said,Cutsbobby my dear Gaftar, I told youour sow was in love with the youngman. Ah! but, quoth be, that mustbe fu^her tried ; Til see first whethershe’ll follow him more than another;anil letting her out, she ran directlyto him, as if she loved him better thanall others; the old man seeing this, 'was much satisfied, and called Sbvffery,and laid him down twenty pounds,wishing them much joy together.This being done, Shtflery took hurleave of the old people, and went hurway; by the smell of the carrots thesow followed him, which the oldwoman seeing, she cried out, comehither mistress bride, pray stay andlake my best hat with you ; which shedid, and looked like Mother Shiptonwith her long nose.CHAP. IV.r ~ • *How Sheffcry was robbed and how kurserved the thief% $c.Sheffeiiv wandering farther, cameunto an uncouth wav, and theremet with a highwayman well niount*ed and armed, who fastening hia eyesupon Sheftery, supposed there wasmoney in the case, and welcomedhim witSi the usual word. Stand. Shef-fpry finding it was in vain to dispute,soon yielded up bis purse, the onlything the thief desired, and settingspurs to ids horse, away he rid foilI speed, leaving Sheffery much lighterthan he found him. Sheffery muchtroubled went on with a light purse,but a heavy heart, and that night want¬ing money, lodged in a barn. Notlong after, Sheffery sitting on the brinkof a draw well, near the highway side,distant from any house, and troubledpt the crosses that happened to him, fellinto a passion, and wh$n he was in thisagony, the person who robbed himhappened to come by. Sheffery mind¬ing him, knew him, tho* he knew not14him, and asked what was the cause ofhis sorrow, who answered he had let abag of money fal into the well. Atthis the thief seemed sorrowful, andsaid, if you will pull off my clothes,you shall let me down info the well,and when 1 have the money. I willcall you to pull me up again. Shefferywas well pleased at this, so off comesthe thief’s apparel, ami into the buckethe goes, while Sheffery was very readyto let him down, which done, and hurseeing the road clear, and the thiefsafe, new is the time thought Shefferyto deceive the deceiver, so pulling offhis old jerkin, by reason he shouldTtot describe imn by his apparel,throws it down into the well, thenmounted his horse, and rode fullspeed night and day. till hur and thewell was twenty miles asuhder, andthen he ventured to optn his port-mantle, where he found three hundredpounds of money, his own twentypounds being part thereof; where wewill now leave him, and discoursesomething of the thief, which Shef¬fery left to search ^or that money inthe lyell which was never there. The15thief finding himself thus deceivedaqd so trapanned that he could noways help himself, was forced to con¬tinue in the bucket th save his sweetlife ; and at last an old woman comingfrom the next town to draw water, asshe was winding up, seeing such astrange beast m the bucket, chrewdlyaffrighted, for he stared like a deadpig in a stall; the woman being halfdead with fear, in a little time re¬covered her senses, and made shift toget to town, where lie declared howshe was affrighted at the well: Theyasked her what it might be: who re¬plied, 1 cared not to stay to look on*f,but without doubt it must be th6devil; and therefore let us all go forthwith what weapons we can get, anddestroy him, who would deprive us ojfthe privilege of the well, and hath'taken possession of the bucket. Sothe rest of the old women and menresolved to fight for their privilege jand armed themselves with such wea¬pons as they could get, the menwuji pitch-forks ,apd clubs, and suchlike; tfie''women with distaffs, andswore by their maidenheads he should.nioor/n ■ «rf» 1o16 .never escape their fury, so they drewthemselves up in a body, and madeold Stump the tootiwlrawer their cap¬tain, and the old woman that broughtthe tidings his second : along theymarched till they came to the well ;then setting themselves in order to op* jpos© him when he should come ogt,none so vailant as old Stump, who wentto the well, to beat him out of hisharbour, where he found him Bittingon the bucket, as the old woman hadtold, and drawing him out of the well,be was so amazed to see so many oldmen and women,, insomuch that heStrove to run for life} but they pur.sued, and so laid on, that they soonended his days, and gave a great shoutfor joy they had killed the devil. Nowlet us return to Sheffery Morgan, wherewe left him, taking an account of hismoney he found in the thief’s port- !mantle,, who beholding his great suniof money, resolved if he could to ad¬vance his fortune, and get him a hand¬some young woman for his w$»,‘ to theend tie m;iy reap a full enjoyment of hisyouth; so-he took up Ins .o.gmgs atthe sign of the Unicorn, where he had17:s Ktit long Iain, but walking forth oneli) day to recreate himself in the fields,where, by mere accident, he light ona young gentleman whose name wasJll Pantillo, who had formerly been fellow'ill student with him at Cambridge, antfwondering to meet Sheffery in thoseparts, asked him where hb lived. Hetold him he lodged at the sign of thewhite horse, with ttie barber’s pole inhis forehead, here in this town. QuothPantillo, I live about ten miles fromhence, and am come hither about busi¬ness, and should be glad to drink onecup of this country liquor with you.With all hur heart, quoth Sheffery,and we will go to my lodging. Sonow they went till they came to thesign of the Unicorn, where they housed,and Pantillo laughed heartily at the newfashioned horse. But as they were dis¬coursing together, Sheffery unfoldedthe secrets of his heart to Prntillo, andtold him he would be. married as soonas he could light on a woman answer-able to his minvi. Quoth Pantillo,there is a gentlewoman who hath late¬ly buried her husband, and livetii nearme, if you mind your hits it is pos-18sible you may obtain her. Quoth Shef-fery how shall hur come to the speechof hur; said he, take horse, and f willsend for her to a friend’s of mine, as ifI would speak with hur myself, and soyou may view her to t he full. To allwhich Sheffery agreed. Then saidPantillo, when she is Winded to de-{)art, out of courtesy tye. wilt w£it uponler home, and so you ttiay meet withan opportunity to expre^ your mind.Sheftery was Vety well pleased withthis; and went with Mr Pantillo to hisfriend's house, and sent for the gen¬tlewoman ; and after some discoursethere, they waited oh her home whereSheffery moved the matter to her,and in short time he gained her fa¬vour j so that the wedding daywas appointed,' and Mr. Pantillo wasto give the bride at church, all whichwas done out of haiUl. Shortly afterSheflfery found a book in a closet,which he could not understand well,bur. asked his wife what book it Was.She told iiiiri that her first husbandwas a doctor of physic, and that thebook he had found, was a book ofreceipts.CHAP. V.Ffow Sheftery turned Doctor, and 'tsohatfollowed.Shef^ery having met with somebooks of physic, resolved to try whathe could do, so finding a receipt inEnglish how to make a clyster, wasencouraged to go forward in his prac¬tice, and living cootentedly manyyears, having but one son, whomhe called after the name of Sheflfery'sfather, old Shon ap Morgan. 'Duringthe time of his practice there came tohim a man who had put his shoulderout of j >i*)t, and coming to Shefferyfor advice, he told him he must take aclyster The man could not conceivethat proper for his shoulder, yet, at lasthe consented to ii ; and as they weregiving him the clyster, the man strug¬gled so very much that his shoulderslipt into its place again, arjd bd'came aperfect cure.This being noised abroad, made Sbef-ferv famous for a Doctor, so that hissopractice increased, and he had wonder-iul luck in all his undertakings.Shortly after a gentleman hard by hadlost his mare, and hearing of Sheffery'sskill, went to him, to know if he couldhelp him to his mare; he toll himyes, but I must give you a clyster. Aclyster, quoth the man. Yes, quothSheffery, a clyster. Well, quoth he,if 1 niusi, I must. Which, when hehad taken it he paid the doctor for,and walking homewards, and findinghe had occasion to ease himself, as hewas stepping over a stile to a conveni¬ent place, he espied his mare, eon.eluded it was by reason of his clyster.This more and more made Sheffery'sname famous, so that he was applaudedbeyond all the doctors thereabouts.Not long after, an old man fell downa pair of stairs, and was greatly hurt;but his careful wife saved his water,and went to ShdFery for his'advice,who taok the urine in his hand andasked it, asking the woman how herhusband was first taken ? She answered,he fell backvyards dow a pair of stairs.nWhy then, quoth Sheffery, the grief4ies in his head and his shoulders.She perceiving the ignorance of thedoctor, resolved to try his skill further,and then asked him how many stepsher husband fell down $ then he askedwhereabouts she lived ; then she toldMm at the lower end of the town ; heconsidering the houses were low, said,he might fall down eight or nineStairs. Oh Sir, quoth she, he fell downfo»t\. Why then, said he, you didnot bring me all the water, No, quothshe. Why there’s the thing then,hail you brought all. the water, Icould have told you all the steps.She concluded it might be so. ThusSheffery, by his wit, woerst the poorold woman.CHAP. VI.Hoxo Shejfery took a journey about Jiveor six miles, and came home and diedoj a surjeit.Sheffery’s horse being lame, hewas forced to travel on foot five milesto see a patient j and the weather be-ing extreme hot, he surfeited himself.At his return home lie took his bed,and there appeared but very littlehopes of his recovery. His son, Shonap Morgan, being now about eighteenyears old, went to his father, and saidin this manner: Father, if you die, Ihope you will leave something to meto buy me a scourge and a town top;Quoth Shtffery, why dost thou troubleme ? Thou hadst more need to bring thybook and read to me. Yes, father, soI will, said he j but looking for hisbook he could not find it, but hewent and told his father he knew notwhere his book was ; but he had aballad of Robin Hood, I will read itto you if you please. But Shefferybeing at. the point of death, and al-23most at the last gasp, minding him not,hut fetching a v^ry gieat and r,lyinggroan, he yielded ap the ghost, leavinghis «on Shon ap Morgan to succeed himin his practice of physician.An exact relation of whose strangeand wonderful cures, is wholly contain¬ed in the second part, being very plea¬sant and delightful.EPITATHON SHEFFERY MORGAN.HERE Sheffery Morgan, the Welsh doctor, lies,'Come good St Taffy, now with mourntui cries.Am', sweep ap Shink in Sbones and cousin Price,With all our near relations Hugh and Rice;Send forth your sighs, sad lamentation make.Until the'very high Wei ih mountains shakeWith the fierce sobs ascending from your br ath,Let the Welsh goats go mourn far hur death;Though hur be ead it cannot be den.’d.But hur liv’d till the very day hur dy’d ;A cruel surfeit did hur vitals seizeBy eating seven pounds of bread and eheese 1Thus is the race of this brave Doctor run,And all the h pe we have is in his son :Who may indeed supply his father’s fame,Young Shon ap Morgan he i call’d by name,Which has been since perform’d by skill and art,As you will find, read but the Second Part.«FINIS.