PETER’S REPENTANCE,After he had denied his Lord andMaster, Jesus • Christ.SERMON;Matth. v. 4.jSlesstd are ye that mourn, for ye shall rejoice.BY A MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL.WITH SEVERAL SPIRITUAL HYMNS.KILMARNOCK :rXINT LB BT H. CRAWFORD.APREACHED FROMMatth. xxvi. 75’.Afnd Peter remembered the words of Jesus, which hesaid; Before the cock crow, thou shah deny me thrice,so he went cut and wept bitterly.1815,PETER’S REPENTANCE.Mark xiv. 68. 70.“ And he denied, saying, I know not, neitherunderstand I what thou sayest: and he wentoat into the porch, and the cock crew. Andhe denied it again. And a little after, theythat stood by said again to Peter, Surely thovtart one of them, for thou art a Galilean, andthy speech agreeth thereto.”ETER is called Simon, an obedient hearer;he is also called Peter, confident, and strongtin faith, like a rock unmoveabie: ‘ Thou artPfiter, and, upon this rock I will build my: church, and the gates of hell shall not prevaillagainst it,* Matth. xvi. J8. He was penitent;(the words now read unto you, do prove the sins;• for, after he had sinned, he went out. Oh, thati every Christian were qualified like Peter. Thosethat crave repentance, faith and obedience, arebetter welcome to God, than the presents givenby the three wise men unto Christ, Matth. ii. 11.4Precious odour was not so much accepted asPeter’s repentance. Gold, frankincence andmyrrh, are not so precious as Peter’s repentanceto God-ward, for he wept bitterly for denyinghis Lord and Master Jesus Christ, Mark xiv. 71.* But he began to curse and to swear, saying, Iknow not this man of whom ye speak.’ So soon 'Ias he had learned to lie, he had learned to swear;they are inseparable companions, and, as I maysay, sworn brethren, that always meet togetherin a sinful society. .We never read of Peter’sswearing any where else, yet, here, upon a sud¬den, oaths and curses shewed themselves. Nosooner Ham spied Noah’s nakedness, Gen. ix. 22.‘ Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shallhe be.’bo he went out. This text affords us threespecial notes, being very remarkable in Peter’srepentance. 1. Remembrance of sin. 2. Re¬morse for sin. 3. Sorrow for sin. All of whichought to accompany a godly and sincere convertin turning from his evil ways.Thus, having found out the mine, let us nowdig for the treasure. So he went out: He wascareless till the cock warned him, thereby learn¬ing, that the first step to repentance, is the re¬membrance of sin, and therefore David saith,Psalm li. 3. ‘ My sins are before me.’ Moseschargeth the people to remember their sins, howoft they provoked the Lord, by that means call¬ing them to repentance, Deut. ix. 7. He wentout, another step of Peter’s repentance, he first5weighed his sin. Mark Noah, and in the medi-f tation thereof, only naked and bare, but he waswakened from his former drowsiness and slumberof sin He went out, wherein observe, the ef¬fectual operations of God’s Spirit, in the childrenof God, after we have sinned, spiritually thegrace of God calleth us home again, and suffer-eth us not to rest, like the dove that was sent outfrom Noah, she found no rest, Gen. vii. 9. Norcan Peter now find any rest, until he have foundChrist “by repentance, whom he had lost by de¬nial. Peter’s sin was great, it was no small baitthat Satan laid in his way, for great is the dan¬ger ; for what greater advantage could Satan elsehave wish’d than this, had not the assisting handof God’s mercies stayed him after his fall, for hisown glory, and to the unspeakable comfort of thegodly, who, though they fall, can never, fallaway*, for the promise of God standeth sure,and hath this seal, God knoweth those who arehis. Our Saviour Christ saith, ‘ Of those whomthou hast given me, I have lost none of them savethe son of perdition, John xvii. 12. He wenti out, as Isaac went out, into the field to pray,Gen. xxiv. 63. So Peter went out to meditateand consider whar he had done : ‘ Peter wenfroutand wept bitterly,’ Luke xxii. 62. The faithfulsoul, when it is desirousi to enter into an holyconsultation, or conference, covets to be alone,like Christ in the desert, Matth. iv. 1. Jacobbeing alone, wrestled with the angel, and pre¬vailed for a blessing, Gen. xxii. 24. Jonah went6out of the city of Nineveh to mourn over it, as itis in Jonah iv. 5. So Jonah preached in Nineveh,that within forty days it should be destroyed, andthey repented. . Moses was bid to put off hisshoe, when he passed near to the flaming bush, |Exod. iii. I So we must put off our shoes ofcarnality, and go out from ourselves, as the ad- jder casteth her slough, if we will tread uponholy ground, and press to come where God is.Peter, so long as he staid in the high Priest’shall among the enemies of Christ, became as oneof them, and had quite forgotten that Christ washis Master, and so denied him, whom a little be¬fore he had promised to die for.O what have I done, miserable man that I am!how dangerously have i fallen, in denying himthe Lord of life, and my Lord ? 1 am a rebellioussinner to deny him that framed me, and, by histruth, redeemed m,e, and was Iso wicked ? if allthe world were offended, yet I would not be of¬fended : yea, I was ready to lay down my lifefor Christ my Lord, and yet, before the cockcrew twice, I had denied him thrice, Matth. xxvi.S3. O perjure}1 wretch that I am, how heavyhave I transgressed my faith, by denying him that jdied for me ? I, that thought my faith was strongenough to encounter with the whole world, mostshamefully suffered a woman, the weaker vessel,to discountenance me. Is this not to be offended ?Is this to give my life for my Master ? nay, isthis not to forsake him quite, and to join withthe wicked i for X denied him whom my soul7Joyed best, for which my name deserves to .gowith a brand upon it, as that of Jeroboam goeswitlr in his train. Peter confessed his train ofsins ; and Jeroboam by name cannot once bementioned; but his sins must be likewise herementioned. Jeroboam goes with his train, Jero¬boam that made Israel to sin: and Peter, desir¬ous to have his train too, Peter that denied hisMaster; from hencelorth Peter repented him ofhis heinous sins he committed, in denying hisLord and Master Jesus Christ.Let us all repent with Peter, that God maygive us the earnest of his grace in our hearts forever: St. Paul saith, Heb. vi. 6. ‘ He that sin-neth crucifieth the son of God again so did Pet¬er by denying his Lord and Master. Peter’s faithwas wavering faith, had not God looked againupon him with the eyes of mercy and tender com¬passion : Be assured, that Peter had fallen fromlight into utter darkness and damnation, had henot truly repented with an unfeigned repentance,Psalm vii. 8. 9. ‘ Cast me not away in the timeof age, forsake me not when my strength failethi me.’ Here we may see how the Prophet cries toGod for mercy, as Peter did cry and weep witha most exceeding weeping, for denying his Lordand Master, Gen. xxvi. 34. ‘ And when Esauheard the words of his father, he cried with agreat and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto hisfather, Bless me, even me also, O my father.’These are the words of Esau, the eldest son ofIsaac, but the youngest in faith to God-ward.sBlessed be thou who art the triumphant conquer¬or of hell, Hos. xiii. 14. the vanquisher of thedevil, Matth. iv. 10. the conqueror and destroy¬er of death, 1 Cor. xv. 55. and redeemer of themthat were in darkness, and in the shadow of death,Luke i. 79. All ye that be thirsty, come untothe waters, and you that have neither gold norsilver, come and receive all these precious trea¬sures free, without paying any thing, Isa. Iv. i.This is the water of life, which spring out of theeverlasting rock, the rock of defence to all thatbelieve in Christ our Lord, who is the enduringrock of our salvation in this world, and in theworld to come. Amen.But now Peter wept fo^ his sins, and confessedhis faults before God, by repenting of his sinfulactions, which he had committed against God,he was taken for one of evil behaviour, and asone that kept evil company; for they said,« He receiveth sinners, and eateth with them,’Matth. vi. 19. This is the lowliness and meek¬ness of our Lord and blessed Redeemer, whohath redeemed us from all evil, and looked uponPeter in mercy and Jove ; for, if Christ had notcalled Peter by repentance, Peter had been adamned creature for falling into so great a sin :for he did utterly deny Christ by lying andswearing, which are great sins, and withoutrepentance cannot be forgiven. Christ hathcommanded us to repent, Matth. iii. 2. ‘ Andsaying, repent ye, for the kingdom of heavenis at hand.’ And, Matth. vi 8. ‘ At that time9Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent, forthe kingdom of hearen is at hand/My brethren, here you may see how theseplaces of scripture agree in one point, so mustour minds be agreeable to the will of God, thatwe may walk in the light until we have light,and so walk in the laws and commandments ofthe most high God, Matth. v, 16. ‘ Let yourlight so shine before men that they may seeyour good works, and glorify your Father whichis in heaven/And let us make a good end by repentance:'‘ I heard a voice from heaven, saying, Blessedare the dead that die in the Lord from hence¬forth : even so, saith the Spirit, for they restfrom their labour, and sorrow, and their worksshall follow them,’ Rev. xiv. 13. Here wemay see that God blessed those that fearedhim even unto the death, that he might givethem eternal life: ‘ When Christ who is ourlife shall appear, then shall we also appear withhim in glory.’ This is the hope of saints, andall the elect and people of God: Mat;h. x. 22.‘ He that endiiroth to the end shall be saved.Be thou faithful unto death, and I will givethee a crown of life,’ Rev. ii. 19.Peter was faithful unto death, by repentinghim of his sins and Peter went out, and weptbitterly; so /eter repented with a faithfulrepentance. Ihen Peter said unto them, ‘Re¬pent and be baptised every one of you, in thename of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins,and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost.’ This |!iPeter it was that denied Christ, but now doth j)lplainly declare him unto all people: Here is jithe unworthiness of those that look back by sin : ijand on the other side, ‘ No man that putteth jihis hand to the plough, and looketh back, is jjlfit for the kingdom of God,’ Luke ix 62, liBut Peter looked back, by denying his Lordand Master Jesus Christ. It is a most certaintruth, that God hath giver, unto us eternal life.So this is as certain, that this life is in his Son,and in the next verse, ‘ He that hath the Sonhath life, and he that hath not the Son hathnot life, 1 John v. 11, 12,Now we may see, how blessed a thing it isto have the Sou of God in our hearts by fastingand prayers, and by fabh and truth : He thathath faith hath life eternal for evermore in thekingdom of heaven. The prophet David’s prayer Ior arithmetic is thus termed ; ‘ Teach us O Lord !to number our days, that we may apply ourhearts unto wisdom,’ Psalm xc. 10.Peter wept because of the weight of griefand sorrow for denying his Lord and Master .Jesus Christ, which made him for doing that ,deed say, Troubles have compassed me round Itabout, my heart is ve^ed and troubled, my sinsare always before mine eyes, which so griev- /,ously torment my conscience, and labour to :bear me down to hell : There is no peace for .the terror of the Lord ; I refuse to be comforted, II am troubled, and my spirit doth afflict me ;111 set* no place whereunto I may flee, and seek ai remedy for my sins.But Peter denied his Master for fear: ThenPeter denied again, and immediately the cockcrew. Then said the damsel that kept the door,unto Peter, Art not thou also one of this man’sdisciples? he saith, I am not, but denied, say¬ing, I know not the man, neither understandI what thou sayest. And he went out intothe porch, and the cock crew; but he begani to curse and swear, saying, I know not thisman of whom ye speak. When Peter h idgotten some feeling in his conscience, he wentout and wept bitterly. ‘ Awake to righteous¬ness, and sin not ; for some have not the know¬ledge of God : I speak this to your shame,’ 1Cor. xv. 3h. ‘ 1 hat thou mayest rememberand be ashamed, and never open thy rnouthmore,’ Ezek xvi. 36.Thus Peter is rejected for his swearing andlying, as it is in Rev. xvi. 27. ‘ And there shallin no wise enter into it any thing that defileth,neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or mak-eth a lie.’ When Satan had tempted Peter toswear, he tempted him to lie; if Peter had notspeedily repented, he had been a lost man:But we read that Christ had mercy upr>n him,and called him from the error of his ways, andfrom that sinful deed.Repentance is a turning to men, we mustnot be aslumed to acknowledge our faults oneto another, James v. 1G. ‘ Confess your faultsIfone to another, and pray for one another, andin so doing, men may know that ye are mydisciples.’ So that we ought to pray for oneanother; but on the contrary, we do rathercurse one another : But woe unto them that doso, for hell fire is prepared for the tormenting oftheir souls} being in that guiph of woe everlast¬ingly tormented world without end, such tor¬ments that men cannot express; for, if menwould truly consider the pains of hell, theywould undergo any thing in this world to gainthe joys of heaven.My brethren, let us now repent of our for¬mer sins and wickedness, that we may be foundworthy to enjoy the kingdom of heaven, by atrue repentance, as Peter did repent of his sins,from the bottom of his heart, with an unfeign¬ed repentance; for you must know, true re¬pentance comes from above: ‘ Every good andperfect gift, saith St. James, comes from above,’James i. 17. For all perfect gifts come fromthe Lord God of hosts, Christ is our salvationand hope, and for evermore to our souls andbodies.But, when Peter had learned to swear andto fie, and curse bitterly, for to save his earthlylife, not thinking of the life to come; Peterwras afraid of the power of the high priest,and did not think of the power of Christ, whosepower is greater than the high priest’s; ‘ Forhe shall come in the glory of his Father, withall his holy angels, with great power and glory.’13Peter not thinking of his power, for, if he hadseriously considered the power of Christ, hewould not have denied him by swearing, cursing,and lying.Swearer, alas! though I did swear, yet, Ithought no harm. O fool! what prince, hear¬ing himself abused to his face, by the reproach¬ful calumnies of his base subjects, would ad¬mit of such an excuse; that whatsoever hespake with his mouth, yet, he thought no illin his heart. And, shall God take this for agood answer, having told us before hand, Deut.xxviii. 58. 59. ‘ If thou wih not observe todo all the words of this law, that are writtenin this book, that thou mayest fear this gloriousand fearful name, the Lord thy God: Then theLord will make thy plagues wonderful, and theplagues of thy seed, even great plagues, andof long continuance, and sore sickness.’Besides, how frequently dost thou pollute andprofane God’s name and our Saviour; the Jewsgrievously sinned in crucifying the Lord of life,but once, and that ignorantly ; so Peter igno¬rantly denied Christ, but wisely repented himof that sin : but they are innumerable, that thoudost commit every day in the year, every hourin the day, although thy conscience be guilty ;Repentance mdketh peace between God and yourconscience for Christ’s sake. Amen.And the holy Spirit of grace hath rebukedthee for it a thousand, and a thousand, times;how dost tlicu expect to have Christ thy Re-11143eemer an3 Advocate, when thy consciencetells thee, that thou hast seldom rememberedhim, but in thy oaths to blaspheme him, andoftener named him in thy oaths and curses,than in thy prayers. Surely if I did swearfaith and truth, this swearing made many sinfulfools fall into hell headlong ; and if Peter hadnot speedily repented, he had fallen into helltorments, where there is nothing but howling,gnashing of teeth, misery, and lamenting forever.It is said, Lev. xix. 17. ‘ Thou shalt nothate thy brother in thy heart; thou shalt inany wise rebuke him and not suffer sin uponhim.’ So Peter was rebuked of his conscience,it tells him that he had wickedly sinned, bydenying his Lord and Master Jesus Christ:That is your gross ignorance of the scriptures,for the scriptures teach us to fear God; forGod expressly forbids swearh.g, and that up¬on pain of dam/iation. James v 12. ‘ My bre¬thren, swear not; neither by heaven*, neitherby the earth, neither by any other oath : but letyour yea be yea; and your nay nay •, lest yefall into condemnation.’ First, our SaviourChrist, in his own person, forbids it, Matth.v. S^.—37. ‘ I say unto you, Swear not at all:neither by heaven ; for it is God’s throne: norby the earth ; for it is his footsu’ol: neitherby Jerusalem, for it is the city of the greatKing: neither shalt thou swear by thy head;because thou cahst not make one hair white orblack. But let your communication be, Yea,yea. Nay, nay; for whatsoever is more thanthese cometh of evil.’ And then the apostleJames saith, « Above all things, my brethren,swear not; neither by heaven, neither by theearth, neither by any other oath : but let youryea be yea; and your nay nay; lest ye fallinto condemnation, James v. 12. Where markthe emphasis in the first words, ‘ Above allthings, swear not;’ and the greatest dangerof it is in the last words, ‘ lest ye fall intocondemnation for woe and sorrow will be inthe end.If the matter be light and vain, we must notswear at all; if mighty, then we may lawfullyswear, as before a magistrate, being called toit, when we must only use the glorious nameof our God in a holy and religious manner,as you may see in Deut vi. IS. Isa. xlv. 2S. andIxv. 16 Josh, xxiii. 7. Exod. xxxiv. 13. Jer.v. 7. and the reasons are weighty if we lookinto them; for, in swearing by any creaturewhatsoever, we do invocate that creature, andascribe to it divine worship ; yea, whatsoever weswear by, that we invccate both our witness,surety and judge; and, by consequence, defile it,by ascribing and communicating unto it God’sincommunicable attributes, and his omnipotencyand cmnisciency of being every where present,and knowing the secret thoughts and intentionsof the heart; and likewise an omnipotency, andas being almighty in patronising, proceeding,16defending, and rewarding us for speaking thetruth, or punishing us if we speak falsely : allwhich are so peculiar to God, as that they canno way be communicated or ascribed to another ;so that, in swearing bv any of these things,thou committest idolatry in an high degree, andthou spoilest and robbest God of his glory, themost impious kind of theft-, and in a mannerdethronest him ; and makest an idol in his room :and as, to swear by the creature, makes the sinmore heinous, so the more mean and vile thethings are which you swear by, as by my fey,by cock, and by hare’s foot, and by cheese, andsuch like childish oaths, which are so mnch inuse with the ignorant and superstitious people ;the greater is your sin in swearing by such anoath, because you ascribe that unto these thebasest of creatures, which is only proper toGod, namely, to know your hearts, and to be adiscerner of secret things. Why else shouldyou call that creature as witness to your con¬science, that sees you speak the truth, and henot, which only belongeth to God : and, there¬fore, the Lord calls it, forsaking of him, as youmay see what he saith Jer. v. 7. ‘ Ho .v shall Ipardon thee for this ? Thy children have for¬saken me, and sworn by them that are no gods.’And so make it a small matter to forsake, and tomake a god of the creature, will ye believe theprophet Amos ? if you will, he saith, speakingof them that swore by the sin of Samaria, ‘ thatthey should fall and never rise again,’ Amos vili.17!♦. A terrible place to vain swearers: but, Peter fell and rose again by faith.Neither are we to join any other with God{ in our oaths, for, in so doing, we make baseI idols and filthy creatures; for Peter wept sor-i rowfully for his sin and offences he had com-j mitted against Christ his Lr rd and Master: and| because he repented, God granted him mercyI and forgiveness for all his offences which heI had committed against him, by denying him whiran oath, and cursing and lying; so that Peter’sconscience told him that he was a great sinnerin so doing, but he repented with a tenderconscience, and he wept bitterly; repentancegoeth before salvation, and salvation workeththe soul’s everlasting joys, in the kingdom ofheaven for evermore.And a maid saw him again, and began to(say unto them that stood by, This is one ofithem, and be denied it again. And a little:after, they that stood by, said again to Peter,surely thou art one of them, for thou art a.Galilean, and thy speech agreeth thereto:—•jbut he began to curse and to sw’ear, saying,I know not this man of w hom ye speak ; and(the second time the cock crew, and Peter cal-ted to mind the words that iesus said unto him,« before the cock crow twice thou shalt deny■ne thrice ,’ and he went out and wrept bitterly:or it: We have a command from God to shunsli devices of evil works. St. Paul saith, Rom.vi. 23. ‘ For the wages of sin is death, but18the gift of God,, is eternal life, through JesusChrist our Lord.’ Neither must we swear at ijall in ordinary communications, if we will obey j!God’s word ; as you may see, Matth. v. —- !j37. Amosv. 12. And as it is in Exodus xxxiii.2. ‘ Thou shalt not follow a multitude to doevil.’ And St. Paul’s everlasting rule is, Rom.xii. 2. ‘ Fashion not yourselves according to |this world, for this world passeth away, and jthe glory thereof.’ For, as St. John saith,* Whosoever denieth the Son, the same deni- ieth the Father: but he that acknowledgeth the jSon hath the Father.’ But Peter denied God ithe Son, then he must needs deny God the iFa .her, and God the Holy Ghost. For, as Christ isaith. He that sinneth against the Son of man, !it shall be forgiven him; but be that sinnethagainst the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgivenhim j neither shall there be any remission of sinsfor that poor soul. ‘ It is a fearful thing to fallinto the iiands of the living God,’ Heb. x. 31.* Stand in awe, therefore, and sin not,’ Psalmiv. -f. ‘ Let him that thinketh he standeth,take heed lest he fal!,’ I Cor. x. 12. And,therefore, flee from your youthful lusts, for itis a fearful thing to fall into the hands of theliving God. For the coming of our Lord Je¬sus Christ draws near, when he shall comewith his mighty angels in glory, honour, andpower, and majesty, everlastingly to all. Con¬sider what hath been delivered, and the I.ordgive you understanding in all things. Amen,19SPIRITUAL HYMNS.The Lord it long-suffering.1 T ORD, and am I yet alive ?Not in torments, not in hell !Still doth thy good Spirit strive !With the chief of sinners dwell!Tell it, unto sinners tell,I am, I am out of hell!2 Yes, I still lift up mine eyes,Will not of thy love despair;Still in spite of <nn l rise,Still I bow to thee in pray’r.Tell if, <xc.3 O the length and breadth of love !Jesus, Saviour, c.ni it be?All thy metcies’ height I praise.All the depth is seen in me.Tell it, &c.4 See a bush that burns with fire.Unconsum’d amid the flame ;Turn aside the sight t’ admire,I the living wonder am.Tell it, &c-205 See a stone that hangs in air !See a spark in ocean live !Kept aiive with death so near,I to God the glory give.Everjell—to sinners tell,I am, I am out of hell!Chief among ten thousand,1 'TiO Christ, the Lord, let ev’ry tongueJ- Its noblest tribute bring :When He’s the subject of the song,Who can refuse to sing ?2 Survey the beauties of his face,And on his glories dwell;Think of the wonders of his grace.And all his triumphs tell.3 Majestic sweetness sits enthron’dUpon his awful brow ;His head with radiant glpries crown’d.His lips with grace o’erflow.4> No mortal can with him compare,Among the sons of men :Fairer he is than all the fairThat fill the heav’nly train;215 He saw me plung’d in deep distress,He flew to my relief;For me he bore the shameful cross,- And carried all my grief.6 To heav’n, the place of his abode.He brings my weary feet;Shews me the glories of my God,And makes my joys complete.7 Since from his bounty I receiveSuch proofs of love divine.Had I a thousand hearts to give.Lord, they should all be thine.*Christ chosen.1 “ /'■'< IVE me thy heart; for, sinner, knowm V-X Thou now art dead in sin and woe j”I live; nor mind this vague command,I neither know nor understand.52 “ Give me thy heart, thou stupid one;“ For blindness makes thee hard as stone-,”Stupid and blind ! this cannot be;I’ll not obey ; I’m sure I see.3 “ Go, Sinai, go; with thunders roll,“ Convince, condemn that stubborn soul .5“ Justice, arise, and yield thy sword,“ But wait thou my permissive word.”22»4 “ Give me thy heart, thou hard’ned foe,“ Or soon expect my wrathful blow.”I give : but, O ! I’m so unclean,I dare not send a gift so mean.5 <f Give me thy heart: I’ll not delay“ To cleanse. I call; then swift obey.”Here, Lord, then take a part, the best,And tarry till I mend the rest.6 “ Give me thy heart, I’ll have it all ;“ A part’s a gift by far too small.”Forbear, O Lord, thy calls—delay ;Excuse me till a future day.7 “ Go, mighty grace, this present hour“ Make known my great, all saving pow’r ;« That soul I bought, I know the cost;« Nor shall this precious part be lost.”8 “ Give me thy heart: now, sinner, say,“ Canst thou, to give it, longer stay ?”No ! Lord ; for, lo ! thy grace so freeHas brought me ©ver all to thee.9 Had I ten thousand hearts my own,I’d soon unite them all in one:And in one off’ring freely sendThem up to thee, my God and Friend-23Providence.HOW are thy servants blest, O Lord,How sure is their defence !Eternal Wisdom is their guide,Their help Omnipotence.In foreign realms and lands remote,Supported by thy care,Through burning climes, I pass’d unhurt,And breath’d in tainted air.Thy mercy sweeten’d ev’ry soil.Made ev’ry region please :ii The hoary Alpine hills it warm’d,And smooth’d the Tyrrhene seas(Think, O my soul, devoutly think,How with affrighted eyes,!Thou saw’st the wide extended deepIn all its horrors rise !(Confusion dwelt in ev’ry face,And fear in ev’ry heart,When waves on waves, and gulphs on gulphs,O’ercame the pilot’s art.Yet then, from all my griefs, O Lord,Thy mercy set me free;Whilst in the confidence of pray’rMy soul took hold>on thee.24*7 For though oti dreadful whirls we hungHigh on the broken wave,I knew thou wert not slow to hear,Nor impotent to save.S The storm was laid, the winds retir’d,Obedient to thy will;The sea that roar’d at thy command.At thy command was still.9 In midst of dangers, fears, and death,Thy goodness I’ll adore,And praise thee for thy mercies pasr,And humbly hope for more.10 My life, if thou preserv’st my life,Thy sacrifice shall be ;And death, if death must be my doom,4»ha!l join my soul to thee !F1 N / S.