FJOE MILLER’S "^TOCi1)NEW JEST BOOK,CONTAINING A COLLECTION OFIECDGTES, JOKES, JESTS, AKD STOPJES.^ OF SCOTLAND 'KIRKINTILLOCH:PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM M'MILLAN.1846.Price €»!»** ^enny.MMBiJOE MILLER.ilV'HEN Lieutenant O’Brien (who was called skyrocket Jack)jtlas blown up at Spithead, in the Edgar, he was on the car-' sage of a gun, and when brought to the admiral, all blackiijnd wet, he said with pleasantry, “ I hope, sir, you will ex-iiuse my dirty appearance, for I came out of the ship in soiJreat a hurry, that I had not time to shift myself.”I Two sailors, the one Irish, the other English, agreed reci-irocally to take care of each other, in case of either beingbounded in an action then about to commence. It was notjtng before the Englishman’s leg was shot oil'by a cannon-llill; and on asking Paddy to carry him to the doctor, ac-lirding to their agreement, the other very readily complied ;at had scarcely got his wounded companion on his backijhen a second ball struck off the poor fellow’s head. Paddy,rough the noise and bustle, had not perceived his friend’s1st misfortune, but continued to make the best of his way toe surgeon. An officer observing him with his headlessipnk, asked him where he was going? “ To the doctor,”|ys Paddy.—“ The doctor!” says the officer, “ why, block-pad, the man has lost his head.” On hearing this, he Hung|e body from his shoulders, and looking at it very attentive-ji “ By my own soul,” says he, “ he told me it was his leg,1' it I wras a fool to believe him, for he was always a great".tr.”,A clergyman was reading the burial service over an Irishjijjrpse, and having forgot which sex it was, on coming totet part of the ceremony winch reads thus, “ our dear bro-ier or sister,” the. reverend gentleman stopped, and seeing:it stand by, stepped back, and whispering to him, said,is it a brother or a sister?” Pat says, “ Friend, ’tis neither,03 only-a relation.”A very ignorant, but very foppish young fellow', going intojookseller’s shop with a relation, who went thither to buynething he wanted, seeing his cousin look into a particu-book and smile, asked him what there was in that bookit made him smile ? “ Why,” answered the other, “ thisiok, is dedicated to you, cousin Jack.”—“ Is it so,” said, “ pray let me see it, for I never knew before that I hadph an honour done to me.” Upon which, taking it intoI: hands, he found it to be Perkins’ Catechism, dedicatedjo all ignorant persons.”JOE MILLER.A great crowd being gathered about a poor cobbler, wihad just died in the street, a man asked Alexander Stevenwhat he had seen? Only a cobbler’s end, replied he.A tall minister said scoffingly to a short one, when in tlrl1pulpit, you look like a collar of brawn in a dish. And, yorlreplied the other, like a pestle in a mortar. fA man being asked by his neighbour, how his sick wi:jdid ? made this answer : indeed, neighbour, the case is pitful; my wife fears she shall die, and I fear she will not, whiimakes a most disconsolate house.A thief, having stolen a cup out of a tavern, was pursuiand a great mob was raised around him. A bystanderasked, what was the matter ? Nothing. A poor fellow 1only taken a cup too much.Three gentlemen ordering a supper at a tavern, one of thwished for a partridge; a brace were brought, and hehad ordered them was requested to divide them; whichaccordingly did, by taking one to his ow n plate, and leavithe other for his friends. Stop, cried one of them, this isunequal division! Not so, replied he, there is one for you t'and one for me too.A runaway couple were married at Gretna Green. TSmith demanded five guineas for his services. How is titsaid the bridegroom, the gentleman you last married assui i.me he only gave you a guinea. True, said the Smith, but ,was an Irishman. I have married him six times. He icustomer. You I may never see again.Do not send for Dr. S , said Captain O’Neal; doSend for Dr. S , for he once attended a young officel :our regiment, and, upon my conscience, he stuffed the p<lad so unmercifully with potions and draughts, that he otinued sick a fortnight after he was quite well.King Charles II. on a certain time paying a visit to ' ,Busby, the doctor is said to have strutted through his sellwith Jps hat upon his head, w hile his majesty walked c« iplaisantly behind him, with his hat under his arm; ,when he was taking his leave at the door, the doctor, v|:great humility, thus addressed the king : I hope your maje jwill excuse my want of respect hitherto ; but if my boys wto imagine there was a greater man in the kingdom tmyself. I should never be able to rule them.A conversation happening to turn upon the reluctaishown by many to tell their age, pray, sir, said a lady ,,friend, if I am asked how old 1 am, what answ er shou .make ? Madam, when you are asked that question, ansithat you are not yet come to the years of discretioninJOE MILLER.A gentleman on circuit narrating to Lord Norbury sometravagant feat in sporting, mentioned that he had latelyot thirty-three hares before breakfast. Thirty-three hairs!f i claimed his lordship; zounds, sir, then you must have been; ling at a wig.A witty knave going into a lace-shop upon Ludgate-hill,id he had occasion for a small quantity of very fine lace,d having pitched upon that he liked, asked the woman ofae shop what she would have for as much as could reachrim one of his ears to the other, and measure which waypleased, either over his head or under his chin. After«ne words, they agreed, and he paid the money down, andikan to measure, saying, one of my ears is here, and thejjier is nailed to a pillory in Bristol, therefore I fear youjve not enough to make good your bargain; however. TII take this piece in part, and desire you will provide the11 with all expedition.1 •iSir John Stuart Hamilton, lounging one day in Dalby’stpcolate-house, when, after a long drought, there fell a tor-:t of rain ; a country gentleman observed, this is a most'lightful rain ; I hope it will bring up every thing out ofground. By Jove, sir, said Sir John, I hope not, for I>•6 sowed three wives in it, and I should be very sorry tothem come up again.>ray, Mr. Abernethy, what is the cure for gout ? asked anlolent and luxurious citizen. Live upon sixpence a dfty,earn it! was the pithy answer.|V friend was complaining to Colman that he should beijjiged to change his tailor, as he found that a suit of clothesfluid not last iiim above one half of the time that it oughtIdo; aiukinquired if he could recommend him any placefere he could meet with apparel more durable. Yes, saidIman, I could recommend you to Chancery, and there you|y have a suit that will last you your life.n Irish gentleman going to the Post-Office, inquired ifre were any letters for him ? Your name, sir, said the clerk,ere is a good one, now, said tiie Hibernian ; why! won’ti see it on the back of the letter.dother Hopkins told me, that she heard Green’s wife say,t John Glarrie’s wife told her, that granny Hopkins heardwidow Bashan say, that Captain Weed’s wife thoughtonel Hodkin’s wife believed that old Miss Lamb reckonedt Samual Dunham’s wife had told Spalding’s wife thatheard John Frainks say, that her mother told her, oldis Jenks heard granny Cook say, that it was a matter ofts! !—American Paper.JOE MILLER.4'A servant girl, who always attended divine service, butwho also could not read, had, from constant attendance, got ;the service by rote, and could repeat it extremely well. But ;a few Sundays previous to her marriage, she was accom- ,panied by her beau, to whom she did not like it to be knownthat she could not read ; she, therefore, took up the prayer- ;hook, and held it before her. Her lover wished to have asight of it also, but, unfortunately for her, she held it upsidedown. The man, astonished, said, Good heavens 1 why, *you have the book wrong side upwards. I know it, sir, saidshe, confusedly, I always read so, fori am left-handed.A gentleman, who, on account of his ugliness, was called ■Cupid, had the evil custom of still more disfiguring his gro- ,tesque person, by a striking negligence in his clothes andlinen. One day he had a desire of going to a masquerade, /and asked the advice of a friend, how he should disguisehimself, so that no one might know him. Nothing in the ;world can be more easy, replied the latter; put on clean ]linen.A certain poor unfortunate gentleman was so often pulled •by the sleeve by the baililfs, that he was in continual appre¬hension of them; and going one day through Tavistock-street, his coat sleeve happened to hitch upon the spike of ,one of the rails; whereupon he immediately turned aboutin a great surprise, and cried out, At whose suit, sir? atwhose suit ?The late Dr. Young of Birmingham, having one day for¬gotten to bury the corpse of a Dissenter, was accused ofneglecting the funeral in consequence of the creed professedby the departed. I have heard, said a Quaker to the rever¬end gentleman, I have heard, friend Young, that thou would-est not bury , because he was of the Dissenters. You’remisinformed, replied the other; I should be happy to burythem all.A little boy having been much praised for his quicknessof reply, a gentleman present observed, that when children ,were keen in their youth, they were generally stupid and ;dull when they advanced in years, and vice versa. What:a very sensible boy, sir, must you have been ! returned thechild.■■ ftWhen James the First went to Salisbury, one of the activeiadventurers ofthose days climbed up the outside of the spire iof the cathedral, and at the top made three somersets in hon- .our of his majesty; wrho being applied to for a reward, gavehim a patent, whergby every other of his subjects except;the aforesaid bold man, and his heirs male, being protestants,were prohibited from doing the like under the severest pcn*jalties./J..JOE MILLER.A tliief being brought to Tyburn to be execute^, the or-j dinary of Newgate, in taking his last confession, af^ed himI if he was not sorry for having committed the robbery fori which he was going to suffer? The criminal answered, yes,11 but that he was more sorry for not having stolen enough toti bribe the jury.A couple of sweeps, having occasion to pass the new bridge11 at Manchester, unluckily could muster only a single half¬penny between them. How to raise the other halfpenny topay the toll they knew not, till one of them proposed to tossfor which should carry the other over. This was done—onewas instantly crammed into the bag, and lugged over on the| shouiders of the other as a burden of soot.A Jew, who was condemned to be hanged, was brought tothe gallows, and was just on the point of being turned off,i when a reprieve arrived. Moses was informed of this, and! it was expected he would instantly have quitted the cart,i but he staid to see his fellow-travellers hanged ; and beingi asked why he did not get about his business, he said, heII waited to see if he could bargain with Maisther Ketch for! the two gentlemen’s clothes.i An Hibernian schoolmaster, settled in a village near.liondon, who advertised that he intended to keep aSunday-1 school twice a week, Tuesdays and Thursday, reminds us ofthe mock mayor of a place in the west, who declared on hisi|;election that he was resolved to hold-his Quarter Sessions-'jl monthly.j When Sir Elijah Impey was on his passage from India, as:i lie was one day walking the deck, it having blowed prettyi hard the preceding day, a shark was playing by the ship.jHaving never seen such an object before, he called to one ofthe sailors to tell him what it was„ Why, replied the tar, Iudon’t know by what name they know ’em on shore, but hereMwe call ’em sea lawyers.j Louis XIV., playing at backgammon, had a doubtful((throw, a dispute arose,, and the surrounding courtiers all re-Umaincd silent. The Count de Grammont happened to comeIpn at that instant. Decide the matter, said the king to him.ire, said the count, your majesty is in the wrong. How !replied the king, can you thus decide, without knowing theiquestion ? Because, said the count, had the matter beendoubtful, all these gentlemen present would have given it foryour majesty.A felon who was just on the point of being turned off,sked the hangman, if he had any message to send to the[place where he was going? I will trouble you with a line,eplied the finisher of the law, placing the cord under his leftlear.JOE MILLER.A Scotch bag-piper travelling in Poland, opened his walletby a wobd side, and sat down to dinner: no sooner had hesaid grafe'e, but three wolves came about him; to one hethrew Mead, to another meat, till his provender was gone ;at length he took up his bag-pipes, and began to play, atwhich the wolves ran away. “ The de’el saw me/’ saidSawney, “ an’ I had kenn’d you lo’ed music sa weel, youshould ha’e had it afore dinner.”The proverb says, “ that idleness covers a man with rags.”An Irish schoolmaster thought the sentence might be im¬proved ; in consequence of which, he wrote for his pupil,“ Idleness covers a man with nakedness.”A Scotchman and an Irishman were sleeping at an inntogether. The weather being rather warm, the Scotchmanin his sleep put his leg out of the bed. A traveller in pass¬ing the room door, saw him in this situation, and having amind for a frolic, gently fixed a spur upon Sawney’s heel;who, drawing his leg into the bed, so disturbed his compa¬nion, that he exclaimed, “ Arrah honey, have a care of yourgreat toe, for you have forgot to cut your nails 1 belaiv.”The Scotchman being sound asleep, and sometimes, perhaps,not a little disturbed by other companions, still kept scratch¬ing poor Pat, till his patience being quite spent, he succeededin rousing Sawney, who not a little surprised at finding thespur on his heel, loudly exclaimed, “ Deil tak’ the daft chielof an ostler, he’s ta’en my boots oft' last night, and left onthe spur.”During the American war, whilst Colonel Eurgoyne com¬manded in Cork, he saw a corpulent soldier among the spec¬tators on the parade, whom he addressed as follows:—“ Whoare you, sir? you must be drilled twice a day to bring downyour corporation. Who are you, sir! ”—“ Please your hon¬our,” replied Pat, “ I am, sir, the skeleton of the 5th regimentof foot, who has just marched over from xDnerica.” The factwas so, for such was the carnage of the disastrous war, thatonly this fat soldier and Captain Webb returned to Europe,out of ff full regiment that landed in America.An Irish footman having carried a basket of game fromhis master to a friend, waited a considerable time for the ■customary fee, but not finding it likely to appear, scratchedhis head, and said, “ Sir, if my master should say, Paddy,,what did the gentleman give you, what would your honourhave me to tell him ? ”A Frenchman, having a violent pain in his breast and jstomach, went to a physician for relief. The doctor, inquir- jing where his trouble lay, the Frenchman, with a dolorousaccent, laying his hand on his breast, said, “ Vy, sare, I haveone very bad pain in my portmanteau,” (meaning his chest).JOE MILLER.A man cannot abuse his m ife without proving himself afool or a bully; a man cannot strike his wife without provinghimself a fool or a ruffian. If she deserves abuse and beating,he must be a fool to have such a wife ; and if she do not, hemust be a bully and a ruffian to abuse and beat her.When Citizen Thelwall was on his trial at the Old Baileyfor high treason, during the evidence for the prosecution, hewrote the following note, and sent it to his counsel, Mr.Erskine : I am determined to plead my cause myself. Mr.Erskine wrote under it—If you do you’ll be hanged :—towhich Thelwall immediately returned this reply—I’ll behanged if I do.A cantab one day observing a ragamuffin-looking boyscratching his head at the door of Alderman Purchase, inCambridge, where he was begging, and thinking to pass ajoke upon him, said, so, Jack, you are picking them out areyou? Nah, sar, retorted the urchin, I takes’em as theycome !The Irish nation have long being supposed to enjoy theexclusive privilege of making bulls. A French gentleman,who lately died at Province, whose name was M. Cleante,affords an instance to the contrary, as will appear by thefollowing anecdotes of him—He bid his valet-de-chambre, very early one morning look[out of the window, and tell him if it was day-light. Sir,jjsaid the fellow, it is so dark I can see nothing as yet. Beast,that you are, replied the master, why don’t you take a candle,to see if the sun rises or no?He was ill of a fever: his physician forbade him the useof wine, and ordered him to drink nothing but barley-water.That I would, said the patient, with all my heart, providedit had the relish of wine ; for, I assure you, 1 had as sooneat beef as partridge if it had the same taste.He paid a visit to a painter, who was busy in drawing alandscape, where a lover and his mistress were in conver¬sation. Let me beg of you, said M. Cleantc, to draw me^n a corner, where I can hear every word these lovers aresaying, without any body seeing me 1A gentleman told him that he had dined with a poet, whoi had regaled him with an excellent epigram for the dessert.Cleante immediately called for his cook, and asked him whyhe had never brought a dish of epigrams to his table.He desired a painter, who was taking his portrait, to drawhim with a book in his hand, which he should read out loud.Your sword, sir, is very troublesome, said a man very sur-llily to a young officer in a crowd. My enemies are of the sameppinion, replied the young man.John Barth, the Dunkirk fisherman, rose by his courageand naval skill to the rank of commodore of a squadron in thenavy of France. When he was ennobled by Louis XIV. theking said to him, John Barth, I have made you a commodore.John replied, You have done right.The late Earl of S— kept an Irish footman, who, perhaps]was as expert in making bulls as the most learned of hiscountrymen. My lord having sent him one day with a pre¬sent to a certain judge, the judge in return sent my lord half-a-dozen live partridges with a letter: the partridges fluttering in the basket upon Teague’s back, as he was carryingthem home, he set down the basket, and opened the lid of itto quiet them, whereupon they all flew away. Oh, the devilburn you, said he, I am glad you are gone. But when hecame home, and my lord had read the letter, well, Teague,said my lord, I find there are half-a-dozen partridges in theletter. Arrah now, dear sir, said Teague, I am glad you havefound them in the letter, for they are all lost out of thebasket.Gentlemen and ladies, said the facetious Beau Nash, tlmthen master of the ceremonies for Bath, introducing a mostlovely woman in the ball-room, this is Mrs. Hobson. I have!,often heard of Hobson’s choice, but never had the pleasureto view it until now, and you must coincide with me that itreflects great credit on his taste.I consequence of a wager, a letter was some years sinceput into a country post-office, and was delivered by the post¬man. The direction, according to the-terms of the wager,consistedof these lines from Pope :—Where London’s column, pointing to the skies,Like a tall bully lifts its head and lies,There dwelt a citizen of sober fame,A plain good man, and Balaam was his name.This letter came safe to Mr. Balaam, who was then a fish¬monger near the monument.A crooked gentleman, on his arrival at Bath, was asked,by another, what place he had travelled from? I came straight:from London, replied he. Did you so said the other, theniiyou must have been terribly warped by the way.An obscure physician, quarrelling with a neighbour,,swore, in a gfeat rage, that some time or other he would be!the death of him. No, doctor, replied the other, for I shalllnever send for you. 'A beggar, in Dublin, had been a long time besieging an, ,old gouty, testy, limping gentleman, who refused his mite;with irritability; on which the medicant said, Ah, please:your honour’s honour, I wish your heart was as tender aSiyour toes.Scottish churches, the precentor (Anglice clerk) alwaysgiy s out the line during the singing of the psalm. For in¬stance, in the hundredth psalm, the officiating Amen, wouldread with nasal twang,—All people that on earth do dwell.When the congregation had sung this line, he would proceedwith—Sing to the Lord with cheerful voice, ani so on till thepsalm concluded. A few years ago a sudden cloud darkenedthe interior of a certain parish church just as the precentor—avery old man—rose for the purpose of discharging this part ofhis duty. He looked up towards the parson, and exclaimed,My eyes are dim, I cannot see. The congregation, (as muchin the dark as himself) instinctively sung the words. I can¬not see at all, said the clerk. We cannot see at all, respondedthe hearers. I really think the folks are mad, exclaimed theleader. Echo as before! The devil burn you all, roared theclerk, and threw down the book with becoming indignation,W e have been led to understand that the congregation didnot join in the last line.A loquacious lady, ill of a disease of forty years’ standing,applied to Mr. A. for advice, and had begun to describe itsprogress from the first, when Mr. A. interrupted her, saying,as he wanted to go into the next street to see a patient, hebegged the lady to inform him'how long it would take her totell her story. The answer was twenty minutes: he askedher to proceed, and hoped she would endeavour to finish bythe time he returned.A country justice of the peace, when upwards of seventyyears of age, married a girl about nineteen, and being wellaware that he was likely to be rallied on the subject, he re¬solved to be prepared. Accordingly, when any of his inti¬mate friends called upon him, after the first salutations werepassed, he was sure to begin the conversation, by saying, hebelieved he could tell them news. Why, said he, I havemarried my tailor’s daughter. If he was asked why he didso? the old gentleman replied, Why, the father suited meso well for forty years past, that I thought the daughter mightsuit me for forty years to come.Sarah Duchess of Marlborough was accustomed to makean annual feast, to which she invited all her relations. Atone of these family meetings she drank all their healths,adding, What a glorious sight it is to see such a number ofbranches flourishing from the root! but observing JackSpencer laugh, insisted on knowing what occasioned hismirth, and promised to forgive him be it what it would-Why, then, madam, said he, I was thinking how muchmore all the branches would flourish if the root were underground.The following is a correct report of an address delive' iby the manager of a small theatre in Ireland, where Mr. li rewas engaged to perform. There were only three persons Tinthe house Ladies and Gentlemen, as there is nobody herp,I’ll dismiss you all; the performances of this night will be re¬puted again to-morrow evening.A gentleman was introduced to a lady, who was a greattattler, as a man of learning. The lady talked incessantly,and was unconscious that no answer was given her. Onpraising the talents of the gentleman next day, she was toldthat this learned person was deaf and dumb, and the intro¬duction a trick.A young fellow, not quite so wise as Solomon, eating someCheshire cheese full of mites, one night the tavern : now,said he, have I done as much as Sampson, for I have slainmy thousands and my ten thousands. Yes, answered one ofthe company, and with the same weapon too, the jaw-boneof an ass.A Bondoner told his friend he was going to Margate fora change of ftair. You had better, said the other, go to thewig-maker’s.A respectable surgeon in London, making his daily roundto see his patients, had occasion to call at a house in Char-inc-cross, where he left his horse to the care of a Jew boy,whom he casually saw in the streets. On coming out of thehouse, he naturally enough expected to find his trusty ser¬vant treating himself to a ride; but no—Mordecai knew theuse of time and value of money a little better ;—he was let¬ting the horse to little boys in the street, a penny a ride tohe Horse-guards and back!A gentleman being at an inn, and seeing the ostler expertabout the horses, asked him what countryman he was. I’seYorkshire, said the fellow. And how long have you livedhere? Sixteen years. I wander that in all that time so clevera fellow as you have not made enough to set up an inn your¬self! Ah, sir, but maister’s Yorkshire too.A fellow walking down Holborn-Hill, on a sultry summerevening, observed an old gentleman without his hat, pantingand leaning upon a post, and courteously asked him whatwas the matter ? Sir, says the man, an impudent rascal hasjust snatched my hat off, and ran away with it; I have runafter him until I have quite lost my breath, and cannot, if mylife depended on it, go a step farther. What, not a step ?says the fellow. Not a step, returned he. Why, then byJupiter, I must have your wig; and, snatching oil his lineflowing caxon, the thief was out of sight with it in a ml-aute.