NARRATIVEGLASGOW:3RS, 6PRINTED FOR THE ROOKSERLERS' 'h SCOTIANOF THE BATTLESDPDI1UMCLOG,ANDEOTHWELL BRIDGE.BATTLE OF DRUMCLOG.— —P The following Account of the Battles of Drumclo'g and Both-; well Bridge, is taken from an American Newspaper, entitledthe ‘National Gazette.’ It is written by the Laird of Tor-t foot, an officer in the Presbyterian army, whose estate is ar| this day in the possession of his lineal descendants of the fifthgenera,‘inn.“It was a fair Sabbath morning, 1st J;;ue 1(379,(that an assembly of the Covenanters sat down on tlifcheathy mountains of Dr urn clog. We had assembled| not to light, but to worship the God of our fatlimg.) We were far from the tumult of cities.—The long dark1 heath waved around us; and we disturbed no living•creatures, saving the pees-weep and the heather-cock,i As usual, we had come armed. It was for self-defence.| For desperate and ferocious bands made bloody raids| through the country, and, pretending to put downtreason, they waged war against religion and morals.They spread ruin and havoc over the face of bleedingScotland.The venerable Douglas had commenced the solemnitiesof the day. He was expatiating on the execrable evilsof tyranny. Our souls were on tire at the remember-ance of our country’s sull’erings and the wrongs of thechurch. In this moment of intense feeling, our watch¬man posted on the neighbouring heights tired his cara¬bine and ran towards the congregation. He annoimcedthe approach of the enemy. We raised our eyes to thominister. “ I have done,” said Douglas with his usuil.firmness—“ You have got the theory,—now for th«practice; jou know your duty; self-defence is idwayijjlawful. But the enemy approaches,” He raised his eyeefto heaven and uttered a prayer—brief and emphatic—Ilike the prayer of Richard Cameron, “ Lord, spare thtjigreen, and take the ripe.”The officers collected their men, and placed them¬selves each at the head of those of Ids own district. SinRobert Hamilton placed the foot in the centre, in threeranks. A company of horse, well armed and mounted,was placed on the left; and a small squadron also on theleft. These were drawn back, and they occupied themore solid ground ; as well with a view to have a moresolid footing, as to arrest any flanking party that mighttake them on the wings. A deep morass lay betweenus and the ground of the enemy. Our aged men, ourfemales and children retired ; but they retired slowly.They had the hearts and the courage of the female andchildren in those days of intense religious feeling and of'suffering. They manefested more concern for the fateof relatives, for the fate of the church than for their ownpersonal safety. As Claverhouse descended the oppositemountain, they retired to the rising ground in the rearof our host. The aged men walked with their bonnetsin hand. Their long grey hairs waving to (lie breeze.They sang a cheering psalm. The music was that ofthe well-known tune of “ The Martyrsand the sen¬timent breathed defiance.—The music floated down onthe wind,—our men gave them three cheers as theyfell into their ranks. Never did I witness such anima¬tion in the looks of men. For me, my spouse and mylittle children were in the rear. My native plains, andthe b "dls of my father, far below, in the deal of Aven,were in full view from the heights which we occupied.My country seemed to raise her voice—the bleedingchurch seemed to wail aloud. ‘ And these,’ I said, asClavers and his troops winded slowly down the darkmountain’s side, ‘ these are the unworthy slaves, andbloody executioners, by which the tyrant completes ourmiseries.’5Hamilton here displayed the hero. His portly figureWZiS seen hastening from rank to rank. He inspiredcourage into our raw and undisciplined troops. ThebravaiHaekstone, and Hall of Haughhead, stood at thehead of the foot, and re-echoed the sentiments of thenChief. Burley and Cleland had inflamed the minds ofthe horsemen on the left to a noble enthusiasm. Mysmall troop on the right needed no exhortation; wewere a band of brothers, resolved to conquer or fall.The trumpet of Clavers sounded a loud note of defiance—thekettle drum mixed its tumultuous roll—they halted—they made a long pause. We coidd see an officerwith four file, conducting 15 persons from the ranks, toa knoll on their left. 1 could perceive one in black: itwas my friend King, the Chaplain at Lord Cardross,who had been taken by Clavers at Hamilton. ‘ Letthem be shot through the head,’ said Clavers, in hisusual dry way, ‘ if they should offer to run away.’ Wecould see him view our position with great care. Hisofficers came around him. We soon learned that hewished to treat with us. He never betrayed symptomsof mercy or of justice, nor offered terms of reconciliation,unless when he dreaded that he had met his match;and, even then, it was only a manoeuvre to gain time oito deceive. His flag approached the edge of the bog.Sir Robert held a flag sacred; had it been borne byClavers himself he had honoured it. He demanded thepurpose for which he came. ‘ I come,’ said he, * inthe name of his sacred Majesty, and of Colonel Graham,to offer you a pardon, on condition that you lay downyour arms, and deliver up your ringleaders.’—‘ Tellyour officer,’ said Sir Robert, ‘that we are fully awareof the deception he practices. He is not clothed withany powers to treat, nor was he sent out to treat withus, and attempt reconciliation. The Government againstwhom we have risen, refuses to redress our grievances,or to restore tons our liberties. Had the tyrant wishedto render us justice, lie had not sent by the hand of sucha ferocious assassin as Claverhouse. Let him, however.6show his powers, and we refuse not to treat; and we |Khali lay down our arms to treat, provided that he alsolay down his. Thou hast my answer.’—‘ It is a per¬fectly hopeless case,’ said Burley, while he called afterthe flag-bearer.—‘ Let me add one word by your leave,General. Get thee up to that bloody dragoon, Clavers,*<<d tell him, that we will spare his life, and the lives ofhis troops, on condition that he, your Clavers, lay downhis arms, and the arms of these troops. We will domore, as we have no prisoners on these wild mountains,Wfi will even let him go on his parole, on condition thathe swear never to lift arms against the religion and the.‘•berties of his country. A loud burst of applause re•rhoed from the ranks; and after a long pause in deepsilence, the army sung the following verses of a psalm:— I‘ The arrows of the bow he brake :The shield, the sword, the war.More glorious thou than hills of prey,More excellent art far.Those that were stout of heart are spoil’a,They sleep their sleep outright:And none of these their hands did find.That were the men of might.When the report was made to Claverhouse, he gave ;word with a savage ferocity, ‘ Their blood be on their iown heads. Be—no quartci—the word this day.’ His |«fierce dragoons raised a yell, and ‘ No quarter,’ re-echoed ffiom rank to rank, while they galloped down the moun- ■tain side. It is stated, that Burleigh was heard to say, ,‘ Then be it so, even let there be ‘ no quarter’—at least hin my wing of the host. So God send me a meeting,’cried he aloud, ‘ with that chief under the white plume. ,t—My country would bless my memory, could my sword bgive his villainous carcase to the crows.Our raw troops beheld with firmness the approach of |V.the foemen; and at the moment when tiie enemy halted pto fire, the whole of our foot dropped on the heath* ■?1Not a man was seen down when the order was given torise, and return the tire. The first flank fired, thenkneeling down while the second fired. They made eachbullet tell. As often as the lazy rolling smoke wascarried over the enemy’s head, a shower of bullets fellon his ranks. Many a gallant man tumbled on theheath. The fire was incessant. It resembled one blaz¬ing sheet of flame, for several minutes, along the line ofthe Covenanters. Clavers attempted to cross the morass,and break our centre. ‘Spearmen! to the front,’—1could hear the deep-toned voice of Hamilton say, ‘ Kneel,and place your spears to receive the enemy’s cavalry,and you, my gallant fellows fire—GW and our countryis our word.’—Our officers flew from rank to rank. Nota peasant gave way that day. As the smoke rolled off,we could see Clavers urging on his men with the violenceof despair. His troops fell in heaps around him, andMill the gaps were tilled up. A galled trooper wouldi occasionally flinch; but ere he could turn or flee, thesword of Clavers was waving over his head. 1 couldsee him in his fury, strike both man and hyrse. In thefearful canufge he himself sometimes reeled. He wouldstop short in the midst of a movement, then .contradict,bis own orders, and strike the man, because he could1 not comprehend his meaning.j He ordered the flanking parties to take ns on our’ right and left. “ In the name of God," cried he,! “ cross the bog, and charge them on the flunks till Wo.get over the morass. If this fail we are lost.’’It now fell to my lot to come into action.—-HithcrUwe had fired only some distant shot. A gallant oflicer led■ Ids band down to the borders of the swamp, in searchioi a proper place to cross. We I brew ourselves WoreHum, a severe tiring commenced. My gallant men firedwith great steadiness. We could H’*' numy tumblingIlfrom their saddles. Not content with repelling the foe-wen, we found an opportunity to cross, ami attack ihfmysword in hand. The Captain, whose name 1 aftenvsrd*(|ascertained to he Avro), threw himself into my path. Ip8fhe first shock, I discharged my pistols. His sudde llstart in the saddle, told me that one of them had take:effect. With one of the tremendous oaths of Gharle '■II. he closed with me. He fired his steel pistol. I wa ‘in front of him ;—my sword glanced on the weapon, amilgave a direction to the bullet, which saved my life. B'this time my men had driven the enemy before them |and had left the ground clear for the single combat. A. 1he made a lounge at my breast, I turned his sworraside, by one of those sweeping blows, which are rathei ‘the dictate of a kind of instinct of self-defence, than :movement of art.—As our strokes redoubled, my anta- Igonist’s dark features put on a look of deep and settler -ferocity. No man who has not encountered the steelof his enemy, in the field of battle, can conceive thelooks and the manner of the warrior, in the moments ofhis intense feelings. May I never witness them again !We fought in silence. My stroke fell on his left shoulder jit cut the belt of his carabine, which fell to the ground.His blow cut me to the rib, glanced along the bone, andrid me also of the weight of my carabine. He had nowadvanced too near me to be struck with the sword. Igrasped him by the collar. I pushed him backwards ;and, with an entangled blow of my Ferrara, I struck himacross his throat. It cut only the strap of his head-piece, and it fell off With a sudden spring, he seizedme by the sword belt. Our horses reared, and we botlicame to the ground. We rolled on the heath in deadlyconflict. It was in this situation of matters, that myOrave fellows had returned from the rout of the flankingparty, to look after their commander. One of them wasactually rushing on my antagonist, when I called on himto retire. We started to our feet. Each grasped hissword. We closed in conflict again. After parryingstrokes of mine enemy, which indicated a hellish ferocity,I told him, my object was to take him prisoner ; thatsooner than kill him, I should order my men to seize him.“ Sooner let my soul be brandered on my ribs in hell,”said he, “ than be captured by a Whigmore. ‘ Aro9Sarter’ is the word of my Colonel, and my word.ave at the W hig—I dare the whole of you to thecombat.”—“ Leave the mad man to me—leave thefield instantly,” said I to my party, whom I couldhardly restrain. My sword fell on his left shoulder.—His sword dropped from his hand.—I lowered my sword,and offered him his life. * 2Vb quarter,'’ said he, witha shriek of despair. He snatched his sword, which Iheld in my hand, and made a lounge at my breast. 1parried his blows till he was nearly exhausted ; but,gathering up his huge limbs, he put forth all his energyin a thrust at my heart.—My Andro Ferrara receivedit, so as to weaken its deadly force ; but it made a deepcut. Though I was faint with loss of blood, I left himno time for another blow'. My sword glanced on hisshoulder, cut through his bull’ coat, and skin, and flesh ;swept through his jaw, and laid open his throat fromear to ear. The fire of his ferocious eye was quenchedin a moment. He reeled, and falling with a terribleclash, he poured out his soul with a torrent of blood onthe heath. I sunk down, insensible for a moment.My faithful men, who never lost sight of me, raised meup. In the fierce combat, the soldier suffers most fromthirst. I stooped down to fill my helmet with thewater which oozed through the morass. It was deeplytinged with human blood, which flowed in the conflictabove me. I started back with horror; and GawnWitherspoon bringing up my steed, W7e set forward inthe tumult of the battle.All this while, the storm of war had raged on ourleft. Cleland and the fierce Burley had charged thestrong company sent to flank them. These officers per¬mitted me to cross the swamp, then, charged themwith a terrible shout. ‘ No quarter,’ cried the dragoons.Be no quarter to you, then, ye murderous loons,’ criedBurley ; and at one blow he cut their leader throughthe steel cap, and scattered his brains on his followers.His every blow overthrew a foeman. Their whole forceswere now brought up, and they drove the dragoons of10QaVeri into the swi’injj. They rolled over each other.All stuck fast. The Covenanters dismounted, and foughton foOt. They left not one man to bear the tidings totheir Colonel.The filing of the platoons had long ago ceased, andthe dreadful work of death was cartied on by the sword.At this moment, a trumpet u as heard in the rear of ourarmy. There was an awful pause, all looked up. Itwas only the gallant Captain Nesbit, and bis guide,Woodburn of Plains ; he had no reinforcements for us,out himself was a host. With a loud huzza, and flourishof his sword, he placed himself by the side of Burley,and cried, ‘ jump the ditch, and charge the enemy’.He and Burley struggled through the marsh. The menfollowed as they could. They formed and inarched onthe enemy's tight Hank.At flu's instant, Hamilton and Hackstone broughtforwaul the whole line of infantry in front. ‘ God nmlbur Ctiunlri/ re-echoed from all the ranks—* No gttar-toV said the fierce squadrons of Clavers—Here com¬menced a bloody scene.1 seized the opportunity this moment offered to me ofmaking a movement to the left of the enemy to save myfriend King and the other prisoners.—We came in timeto save them. Our sword speedily severed the ropeswhich tyranny had bound on the arms of the men. Theweapons of the fallen foe supplied what was lacking ofarms ; and with great vigour we moved forward tocharge the enemy on the left Hank. Clitverhouse formeda hollow square—himself in the centre ; his men foughtgallantly; they did all that soldiers could do in thensit oat ion. Wherever a gap was made, Clavers thrustthe men forward, and speedily lillid it up. Three timeshe rolled headlong on the heath as lie hastened frontKink to rank, and as often be remounted. My littlehiiitil thinned liB ranks. He paid us a visit. Here Idtstmctly saw tlie h atmes and shape of this far-famedm’ali. He was small of stature, and not well formed.Hit arms Trig in proportion to his less ; I"' '‘ad a11enoplexion unusually dark ; his features were not lightedup with sprightliness, as some fabulously reported ; theyseemed gloomy as hell: his cheeks were lank and deeplyfurrowed ; his eye-brows were drawn down and gatheredinto a kind of knot at their junctions, and thrown up attheir extremeties ; they had, in short, the strong ex¬pression given by our painters to those on the face ofJudas Iscariol, his eyes were hollow, they had not thelustie of genius nor the fire of vivacity; they werelighted up by that dark fire of wrath which is kindledand fanned by an internal anxiety, and conciousness ofcriminal deeds ; his irregular and large teeth were pre •sented through a smile, which was very unnatural onhis set of features ; his mouth seemed to be unusuallylarge from the extremeties being drawn backward anddownward—as if in the intense application to somethingcruel and disgusting ; in short, his upper teeth projectedover his under lip, and on the whole, presented to myview the mouth on the image of the Emperor Julian theApostate.—In one of his rapid courses past us, mysword could only shear off his white plumb and a frag¬ment of bis buff coat. In a moment he was at the otherside of the square. Our officers eagerly sought a meet¬ing with him. * He has the proof of lead,’ cried seineof our men.—‘ Take the cold steel or a piece of silver.’‘ No,’ cried Burley, ‘ It is his rapid movement on thatfine charger that bids defiance to any thing like an aimin the tumult of the bloody fray. I could sooner slmotten heather cocks on the wing, than one flying Claveis.’At that moment Burley, whose eye watched his anta¬gonist, pushed into the hollow square. But Burley whstoo impatient. His blow was levelled at him beforecame within its reach. His heavy sword descended onthe head of Clavers’ horse and felled him to the ground.—Burley’s men rushed pell-mell on the fallen Claveu,but his faithful dragoons threw themselves upon tliej.i,and by their overpowering force drove Burley hank.Clavers was in an instant on a fresh steed. His bugtt-bad recalled the party who were driving back the Hank-12ing party of Burley. He collected his whole troops to’make his last and desperate attack- -He charged ourinfantry with such force, that they Logan to reel. Itwas only for a moment. The gallant Hamilton snatchedthe white flag of the Covenant, and placed himself intire fore front of the battle. Our men shouted ‘ Godund our country,’ and rallied under the flag. Theyfought like heroes. Clavers fought no less bravely.His blows were aimed at our officers. His steel fell onthe helmet of Hackstone, whose sword was entangledin the body of a fierce dragoon, who had just woundedhim. He was born by his men into the rear. Idirected my men on Clavers. ‘ Victory or death,'*was their reply to me. Clavers received us. Hestiuck a desperate blow at me as he raised himself,with all his force, in the saddle. My steel cap resistedit. The second stroke I received on my Ferrara andhis steel was shivered to pieces. We rushed headlongon each other. His pistol missed fire—it had beensoaked in blood. Mine took effect. But the woundwas not deadly. Our horses reared. We rolled on theground. In vain we sought to grasp each other. Inthe mele, men and horse tumbled on us. We were fora few moments buried under our men, whose eagernessto save the respective officers brought them in multitudesdown upon us. By the aid of my faithful man Gawn,I had extricated myself from my fallen horse ; and wewere rushing on the bloody Clavers, when we wereagain literally buried under a mass of men ; for Hamil¬ton had by this time brought up his whole line, and hehad planted his standard where we and Clavers werelolling on the heath. Our men gave three cheers andIrove in the troops of Clavers. Here I was born alongwith the moving mass of men ; and, almost suffocatedand faint with the loss of blood, I knew nothing moretill I opened my eye on my faithful attendant. He haddragged me from the very grasp of the enemy, and hadborne me into the rear, and was bathing my templeswith water. Wc speedily regained our friends ; and13what a spectacle presented iUelt !—It seemed that Ibeheld an immense moving mass heaped up together inthe greatest confusion.-—Some shrieking, some groaning,some shouted, horses neighed and pranced, swords rungon the steel helmets. I j laced around me a few of myhardy men, and we rushed into the thickest of the ene¬my m search of Clavers, hut it was in vain. At thatinstant. Ins trumpet sounded the loud notes of retreat;and we saw on a knoll Clavers Lome away by his men.He threw himself on a horse, and without sword, with¬out helmet, he tied in the first ranks of their retreatinghost. His troops g;dloped up the hill in the utmostconfusion. My little line closed with that of Curleys,atul took a number of prisoners. Our main body pur¬sued the enemy two miles, and strewed the ground withmen and horses. I could see the bare-headed Claversm front of his men, kicking and struggling up the steepsides of Calder hill. He halted only a moment on thetop to look behind him, tiien plunged his rowels into hishorse, and darted forward ; nor did he recover from hispanic till he found himself in the city of Glasgow.‘ And, my children,’ the Laird would say, after hehad told the adventures of this bloody day, ‘ I visitedthe field of battle next day'; I shall never forget thesight. Men and horses lay in their gory beds, i turnedaway from the horrible spectacle. 1 passed by the spotwhere God saved my life in the single combat, andwhere the unhappy Captain Arrol fell, I observed that,in the subsequent fray, the body had been trampled onby a horse, and Ids bowels were poured out. Thus, invchildren, the defence ot our lives, and the regaining ofour liber ty and religion, lias subjected us to severe trials.And how great must he the love of liberty, when itcarries men forward, under the impulse of self-defence,to witness the most disgusting spectacles, and to en¬counter the most cruel hardships of war !’14JIATTLE Ob' BOTHWELL BRIDGE.“ H«u ! TlctA jacet pletas.1'* * • Aftcj- the ranks of tlie patriotic \Vrhigs werebioken by overwhelming forces, ami while Dalzell andClavers swept the south and west of Scotland like theblast of the desert, breathing pestilence and death—theindividual wanderers betook themselves to the caves andfastnesses of their rugged country. This was theirsituation chiefly from A. 1). I(i80, to the Revolution.The Laird spent his days in seclusion ; but still he fear¬lessly attended the weekly assemblies in the fields, forthe wo]ship of Almighty God. What had he to fear?—His estate had been confiscated. His wife and babesstript by the life guards of the last remnant of earthlycomfort which they could take away; and himselfdoomed as an outlaw, to he executed by the militaryassassins when taken. He became reckless of tileworld.‘ l have lived,’ said he in anguish, ‘ to see a Prince,twice of his own choice, take the oath of the covenantsto support religion, and the fundamental laws of theland. I have lived to see that Prince turn tiaitor tohis country, and, with unblushing impiety order thesecovenants to be burned by the hands of the executioner.I have seen him subvert the liberty of my country, bothcivil and religions.—I have seen niur'erect a bloody in¬quisition. The priest imposed on us by tyranny, insteadof wooing us over by the loveliness of religion, havethrown oft the bowels of mercy. They occupy seats inthe bloody Council. They stimulate the crueilie* idLauderdale, M'Kenzie and York. Their hands antdipt in blood to tbe wrests. This Council will not per¬mit us to live in peace. Our property they confiscate.1 *i 3Our houses they convert into barracks. They dragtree men kilo chains. They bring no witnesses of ourguilt.—They invent new tortures to convert us. Theyemploy the thumb-screws and hootkins. If we are si¬lent they condemn us. If we confess our Christiancreed, they doom us to the gibbet. Not only our sen¬tence, but th<* numner of our execution is fixed beforeour trial. Clavers is our judge ; his dragoons are ourexecutioners: and these savages do still continue toemploy even the sagacity of blood hounds to hunt usdown.-—My soul turns away from these loathsomespectacles.At this moment his brother John entered, with lookswhich betrayed unusual anxiety. ‘ My brother,’ saidhe, ‘ a trooper advances at lull speed, and he is followedby a dark column. We have not even time to Hy.—I he mind of the laird like those of the rest of the wan-lerers, always brightened up at the approach of danger.1 Let us recormoiter,’ said he, ‘ what do 1 see, but onetrooper. And that mutely crowd is but a rabble—nota troop. That trooper is not of Clavers’ hand ; nordoes lie belong to Douglas—nor to Ingles—nor toStiachan's dragoons. He waves a small flag. I candiscover the scarlet and blue colour of the Covenantersflag Ha 1 welcome you, John Howie of Lochgoin—Hut what news ?—Lives our country ? Lives the goodold cause ?—‘ Glorious news,’ exclaimed Howie,‘ Scotland for ever,! She is free. The tyrant Jameshas abdicated. The Stuarts are banished by an indig¬nant nation, Orange triumphs, our wounds are bindingup.—Huzza! Scotland, and King William and theCovenant for ever !The Laird made no reply. He laid bis steel cap onthe ground, and threw himself on his knees; he uttereda brief prayer, in which this was the close : ‘ My bleed¬ing country, and thy wailing kirk, and my brethren uthe furnace, have come in remembrance before thee.Lor ever lauded be thy name.’—Hasten to the meetingat Lesmahagow, Our friends L-hind me, you see, hare1G »already set out,’ .said Howie. And he set out with en¬thusiastic ardour to spread the news.‘ These news,’ said the Laird, after along pause whilehis eyes followed the courser over the plains of Aven—* these news are to me as life from the dead. I havea mind to meet my old friends at Lesmahagow. Andthen, when serious business is despatched, we can takeBothwell field in our return. It will yield me at leasta melancholy pleasure to visit the spot where wefought, I trust, our last battle against the enemies ofour country, and of the good old cause.Se rious matters of church and state having been dis¬cussed at the public meeting, the brothers found them¬selves, on the fourtli day, on the battleground of Botb-welK‘ On that moor,’ said the Laird, after a long silence—and without being conscious of it, he had, by a kindof instinct, natural enough to a soldier, drawn hissword, and was pointing with it—‘ On that moor theenemy lirst formed under Monmouth. There, on theright, Clavers led on the life-guards, breathing fury,and resolute to wipe oli the disgrace of the affair ofDrumclog. Dolzell formed his men on that knoll. LordLivingstone led the van of the foemen. We had takencafe to have Bothwell Bridge strongly secured by abarricade, and our little battery of cannon was plantedon the spot below us, in order to sweep the bridge. Andwe did rake it Tire foemen’s blood streamed there.Again and again the troops of the tyrant marched on,anil our cannon annihilated their columns. Sir RobertHamilton was our Commander-in-Chief.—The gallantgeneral Hackston stood on that spot with his bravemen. Along the river, and above the bridge, Burley’sfoot and captain Nisbet’s dragoons were stationed. Forone hour we kept the enemy in check ; they were de¬feated in every attempt to cross the Clyde. Livingstonesent another strong column to storm the bridge. I shallnever forget the cflect of one fire from our battery, wheremy men stood. We saw the line of the foe advance inall the military glory of brave ami beautiful men, thehorses pranced—the armour gleamed. In one momentnothing was seen but a shocking mass of mortality.Human limbs’, and the bodies and limbs of horses weremingled in one huge heap, or blown to a great distance.Another column attempted to cross above the bridge.Some threw themselves into the current. One well'directed fire from Burley’s troops threw them into dis-older, and drove them back. Meantime, while wewere thus warmly engaged, Hamilton was labouring tobring down the different divisions of our main body intoaction ; but in vain he called on Colonel Cleland’s troop— in vain he ordered Henderson’s to fall in—in vain hecalled on Colonel Fleming’s. Hackstone flew from troopto troop—all was confusion ; in vain he besought, heintreated, he threatened. Our disputes and fiery mis¬guided zeal, my brother, contracted a deep and deadlyguilt that day. The Whig turned his arm in fierceheat that day against his own vitals. Our Chaplains,Cargil and King, and Kid, and Douglas, interposedagain and again, Cargil mounted the pulpit; he preachedconcord ; he called aloud for mutual forbearance. ‘ Be¬hold the banners of the enemy,’ cried he, ‘ hear ye notthe fire of the foe, and of our brethren ? Our brothersand fathers are fallen beneath their sword. Hasten totheir aid. See the flag of the Covenant. See themotto in letters of gold—‘ Christ’s Crown and the Co¬venant.’ Hear the wailings of the bleeding Kirk.Banish discord. And let us, as a band of brothers pre¬sent a bold front to the foeman—Follow me all ye wholove your country and the Covenant. I go to die inthe fore-front of the battle. All the ministers andofficers followed him, amidst a flourish of trumpets ; butthe great body remained to listen to the harangues ofthe factious.—We sent again and again for ammunition.My men were at the last round. Treachery, or afatal error, had sent a barrel of raisins instead of pow¬der. My heart sunk within me while I beheld thedespair on the faces of my brave fellows, as I struck18out (he head of the vessel. Ifaekstone called his offi¬cers to him. We threw ourselves around him.—‘ Whatmust be done?’ said he in an agony of despair. * Con¬quer or die,’ we said, as if vulh one voice. ‘ We haveour swords yet. Lead back the men to their placesand let the ensign bear down the blue and scarlet col¬ours. Our God and our country be the word.’ Huck-stope rushed forward. We ran to our respective corps—we cheered our men but they were languid and dis-spirited. Their ammunition was nearly expended, andthey seemed anxious to husband what remained. '1 heyfought only with their carabines. The cannons couldno more he loaded. The enemy soon perceived this.We saw a troop of horse approach the bridge. It wasthat of the lile-guards. I recognised the plumb ofClavers. They approached in rapid march. A solidcolumn of infantry followed. I sent a request to Cap-lain Nesbit to join his troop to mitre. He was inan instant with me.—We charged the life-guards.Our swords rung on their steel caps.—Many of ourbrave lads fell on all sides of me. But we hewed down(he foe. They began to reel.—The whole column waski pt stationary on (he bridge. Clavers’ dreadful voicewas heard—more like the yell of a savage, than thecommanding voice of a soldier. He pushed forward h:smen, and again we hewed them down. A third masswas pushed up. Our exhausted dragoon fled.—Un¬supported, I found myself by the brave Nesbit, andBaton, and Hackstone. We looked for a moment’sspace in silence on each other. We galloped iit frontof enr retreating men. We rallied them. W e pointedto the General almost alone. We pointed to the whiteand to the scarlet colours floating near him. We cried,‘ God and our Country, They faced about. We chargedClavers once more.—* Tor foot,’ cried Nesbit, ‘ I dareyou to the fore-front of the battle.’ We rushed up at fullgallop. Our rriert seeing this followed also at full speed.—We broke down the enemy’s line, bearing down thosefill's which \vo encountered. We cut opr way through10their rank*. But they hail now lengthened their front.Superior numbers drove us in. They had gained entirepossession of the bridge. Livingstone and Dalzell wereactually taking us on the flank.—A band had got (re-tween us and Burley’s infantry. ‘ My friends,’ saidHackstone to his officers, we are last on the field. Wecan do no more.—We must retreat.—Let us attempt,at least, to bring aid to the deluded men behind us.They have brought ruin on themselves and on us. NotMonmouth, but our own divisions have scattered us.At this moment one of the life-guards aimed a blowat Hackstone—My sword received it—and a strokefrom Nesbit laid the foeman’s fiand and sword in thedust. He fainted and tumbled from the saddle. Wereined our horses, and galloped to our main body. Butwhat a scene presented itself here ! These misguidedmen had their eyes now fully opened on their fatalerrors. Tire enemy were bringing up their whole forteagainst them. 1 was not long a near spectator of it;for a ball grazed my courser. He plunged and reared--then shot off like an arrow. Several of our officersdrew to the same place. On the knoll we faced about—the battle raged below us. We beheld onr com¬mander doing eveiy thing that a brave soldier could dowith factious men against an overpowering foe. Bur¬ley and bis troops were in close conflict with Clavers*dragoons. We saw him dismount thiee troopers withhis own hand. He could not turn the tide of battle,hut lie was covering the retreat of these misguided men.Before we could rejoin him, a party threw themselvesin our way. Kennoway, one of Clavers’ officers ledthem on. ‘ Would to God that this was Grahame him¬self,’ some of my comrades ejaculated aloud. ‘ He fallsto my share,’ said I, ‘whoever the officer be.’—I ad¬vanced—he met me, I parried several thrusts, lie re¬ceived a cut on the left arm; and the sword by thesame stroke, shore off one of his horse's ears ; it plungedand reared. We closed again. 1 received a stroke onleft shoulder. My blow fell on liis sword ar m. f|e2°reined his horse around, retreated a few paces, then rejjiiturned at full gallop. My courser reared instinctivelyas he approached ; I received his stroke on the back cilmy ferrara, and by a back stroke, I gave him a deemcut on the cheek. And before he could recover a posi retion of defence, my sword fell with a terrible blow orhis steel cap. Stunned by the blow, he bent himselforward—and, grasping the mane, he tumbled from hi"saddle, and his steed galloped over the field. I did notrepeat the blow. His left hand presented his sword ;his right arm was disabled ; his life was given to him.My companions having disposed of their antagonists,(and some of them had two a-piece,) we paused to seethe fate of the battle. Dalzell and Livingstone were!riding over the field like furies, cutting down all in theirway. Monmouth was galloping from rank to rank, andcalling on his men to give quarter. Clavers, to wipenfi’ the disgrace of Drumclog, was committing dreadfulhavoc. ‘ Can we not find Clavers,’ said Halhead,‘ no said Captain Paton, ‘ the gallant Colonel takes careto have a solid guard of his rogues about him. I havesought him over the field; but I found him, as 1 nowperceive him, with a mass of his guards about him.At. this instant we saw our General, at some distance,disentangling himself from the men who had tumbledover him in the mele. His face, his hands, and clothes,were covered with gore. He had been dismounted, andwas fighting on foot. We rushed to the spot, andcheered him. Our party drove back the scattered bandsof Dalzell. ‘ My friends,’ said Sir Robert, as wemounted him on a stray horse, ‘ the day is lost! But—you Paton ; you Brownlee of Torfoot, and you Hal-head ; let not that flag fall into the hands of these in¬carnate devils. We have lost the battle, but by tbegrace of God, neither Dalzcll, nor Clavers shall say thathe took our colours. My ensign lias done his duty. Heis down. This sword has saved it twice. I leave itto your care. You sec i(s perilous situation.’ Hepointed with his sword to the spot. We collected21some of our scattered tioops, ami tk w !o l!ie place. Thestandard bearer was down, but he was born upright bythe mass of men who had thrown themselves in fiercecontest around it. Its well known blue and scarlet col¬ours, and its motto, ‘ Christ's Crown and Covenant,’in brilliant gold letters, inspired us with a sacred enthu¬siasm. We gave a loud cheer to the wounded ensign,and rushed into the combat. The redemption of thatflag cost the foe many a gallant man. They fell be¬neath our broad swords ; and, with horrible execrationsdying on their lips, they gave up their souls to theirJ udge.Here I met in front that ferocious dragoon of Clavers,named Tam Halliday, who had more than once, in hisraids, plundered my halls ; and had snatched the breadfrom my weeping babes. He had just seized the whitestaff of the flag. But his tremenduous oath of exulta¬tion, (we of the covenant never swear)—his oath hadscarcely passed its polluted threshold, when this AndrewFerrara fell on the guard of his steel and shivered it topieces. ‘ Recreant loon !’ said I, ‘ thou shalt this dayremember thy evil deeds.’ Another blow on his helmetlaid him at his huge length, and made him bite the dust.In the mela that followed, I lost sight of him. Wefought like lions—but with the hearts of Christians.While my gallant companions stemmed the tide of bat¬tle, the standard, rent to tatters, fell across my breast.I tore it from the staff, and wrapt it round my body.We cut our way through the enemy, and carried ourGeneral off the field.Having gained a small knoll, we beheld once morethe dreadful spectacle below. Thick volumes of smokeand dust rolled in a hazy cloud over the dark bandsmingled in deadly fray, it was no longer a battle, but amassacre. In the struggle of my feelings I turned myeyes on the General and Paton. I saw, in the face'ofthe latter, an indiscribuble conflict of passions. His longand shaggy eye-brows were drawn over his eyes. Hishand grasped his sword. ‘ I cannot yet leave the field22•aid the undaunted Patou—‘ With tlie General’*mission, 1 shall try to save some of our wretchedbeset by those hell-hounds. Who will go P—At Kil¬syth I saw service. When deserted by my troops, Icut my way through Montrose’s men, and reached thespot where Colonels Halket and Strachan were. We leftthe field together. Fifteen dragoons attacked us. Wecut down thirteen, and two fled. Thirteen next assailedus. We left ten on the field, and three fled. ElevenHighlanders next met us. We paused and cheered eachother: ‘Now, Johnny,’ tried Halket to me, ‘putforth your metal, else we are gone,’ nine others we sentafter their comrades, and two fled Now, who willjoin this raid i’* ‘ I will be your leader,’ said Sir Ro¬bert, as we fell into the ranks.We marched on the enemy’s flank. ‘ Yonder isClavers,’ said Patou, while he directed his courser onhim. The bloody man was, at that moment, nearlyalone, hacking to pieces some poor fellows already ontheir knees disarmed, and imploring him by the commonfeelings of humanity to spare their lives. He had justfinished his usual oath against their ‘ feelings of human¬ity,’ when Paton presented himself. He instantly letgo his prey and slunk back into the midst of his troop¬ers. Having formed them, he advanced.—We formed,and made a furious onset. At our first charge his troopreeled. Clavers was dismounted.—But at that mo¬ment Dalzell assailed us on the flank and rear.— Ourmen fell around us like grass before the mower. Thebuglemen sounded a retreat. Once more in the mde,l fell in with the General and Paton, we were coveredwith wounds. We directed our flight in the rear ofour b;oken troops. By the direction of the General I• This chivalrous defence ii recorded, I find, in the life ofCaptain Patou, in the ‘ Scots Wcrthies,’ Edin. edit, of A. D.1813. This celebrated Officer was trained up to warfare in thearmy of Charles Gustavus, King of Sweden. This is a speci¬men of these heroic IVhigs, who brought about the Revolutionof A. D. 1688.had unfurled the standard. It was bom off the fie 1flying at the sword's point. Gut that honour cost memuch. I was assailed by three fierce dragoons ; firefollowed close in the rear. I called to Paton,—in amoment l,e was by my side. I threw the standard tothe General, and we rushed on the foe. They fell be¬neath our swords ; but my faithful steed, which hadcarried me through all my dangers was mortally wound¬ed. He fell. I was thrown in among the fallen ene¬my. L fainted. I opened my eyes oh misery. 1 foundmyself in the presence of Monmouth—a prisoner—withother wretched creatures, awaiting, in awful suspense,their ultimate destiny. * * * *W. C. B.LONG CREDIT.Soon after the battle of Preston, two Highlanders,in roaming through the south of Mid-Lothian, enteredthe farm-house of Swanston, near the Pentland Hills,where they found no one at home but an old woman.They immediately proceeded to search the house, andsoon finding a web of coarse home-spun cloth, made noscruple to unroll and cut off as much as they thoughtwould make a coat to each. The woman was exceed¬ingly incenced at their rapacity, roared and cried, andeven had the hardihood to invoke divine vengeance upontheir heads. “ Ye villains !” she cried, “ ye’ll ha’e to=iccount for this yet! ”—“And when will we pe ac¬count for't?" asked one of the Highlanders.—“ At thelist day, ye blackguards!” exclaimed the woman.‘ Ta last tay!” replied the Highlander : “ Tat p«rood long credit—we’ll e’en pe tak a waistcoat too !”at the same time cutting off a few additional yards ofthe cloth.DEATH OF A WATCH.Afttf the battle of Falkirk, in 1746, a Highlandmanwarn observed extracting a gold watch from the fob of24an English oflicci who. had hcon kilird. His comradeviewed him with a greedy eye ; which the man takingnotice of, said to him “Tainn you gapin’ creedy bitch,gang an’ shoot a shentknian for hersel’, an no envieme o’ my pit watch. Next morning finding his watchmotionless, and meeting his comrade, says to him,Och ! she no be care muckle about a watch, an’ yoube like mine what will you gie me for her ?” The otherreplied, I be venture a kimiy.”-'—YVeel then,” said theother, “ Shust tak her, an’ welcome, for she be dieyester night.”CAPTAIN SILK.In a party of ladies, on it being reported that a Cap¬tain Silk had arrived in town, they exclaimed, with oneexception, ‘ What n name for a soldier .” ‘ The fittestname in the world,’ replied a witty female, ‘ for Silknever can be Worsted i’o(M