THECOMICAL NOTES ANDSAYINGS 'OF THE LATE REY£JVENi>Mr. Pettegrew,MINISTER of the GOSPEL, atLong Govan, near Glasgow.PAISLEY:Printed for George Caldwel^ Sookt^tf;r .THECOMICAL NOTES AND SAYINGSOF THE LATE REVERENDMR. PETTEGREW.MR. PETTEGREW, late minifter ait LongGovan, two mi'es weft from Giatgow, wa| apnan of an excellent ready wit, and of great patience,»nd knowledge conform thereunto, fo that the reftif fan brethren, minifters of that Prefbytery, heldirm as their father and inffrutlor; unto him theyippfealed to refolve all doubilul queftions and con-troverGes ; for, at any aflemblies or fynods, among hisbrethren, he had a molt learned fpeech, imitatingthat of an Erglifh advocate; but in his common dif-courfe, among his panfhioners, he ^.d as homely aftile of fpeech as any o!d woman in the parifh ; he#88 a great lover of piety and quietnefs* and lharplyreproved vice, in whatfoever peifon ,or rank he be¬held it'; and that in words fo mild and fitting theeft ndsi’s cafe and crimes, partly in the way of mock¬ing th-n for ihi ir meannefs of fuch a naughty ofteneeas below iheir-ftation to to do.He being one night in company with fome young Igentlemen, and one young man, amongft the reft,ivh. f name wa* Ja "S. fwote very often by his■IVIaker’s name; Mr PettegreW' obferving him, andas he did fo, the n-xt time,. By Jamie, faid Mr. Pet¬tegreW, is it fo, man ? What, faid the young man,do you fwcar by my name ? Yes, faid Mr. Pettegrew,while you fwear lo often by fuch a great name. Theycung man fl^w into a rage, wifhing to damn hisifouh if any. man do fo again, but he would (how himthe odds of it j O. poor man, faid Mr Pettegrew,what would you do, Tf thy arfe were but damnedfor ae ten da-vt ? * he young man being fo aftiam^J, 1■at, this rebuke befor*,the rcit of the cawyapy, he be* jCOMICAL NOTES AND SAIINUV^C 1came very peaceable, and ever after knew how torule his tongue.In the time of Queen Anne’s wars againft theFrench, one day, alter ferrron in church in htsprayer, he earnettly defired that God would permitthe devil to take the French K'ng, and fhake him a-bove hell : but, O <io not le; him fl;ng him in, fatdhe, although he bt cur enemy j but fright him outof his little coat, until he be-come a better neighbour,and let poor fouks live in peace. ' *One day as he was Handing befide feme work-I men, who were mending a piece of a rough road,which led unto his otvn houfe, a parcel of young| gentlemen, who had been a hunting, ,commg paftI that way, one of them faid, Good-day to you, Mr.J Pettegrew, I fuppofe this is the way to heaven, youi are mending it fo well ? Indeed, man, I thought i£had been fo, until I faw your gracelefs-iikr face cortii-; ing this way ; we need not mend any more at it, forye’re going fall enough to an ill part for as rough a*the road is.One of his elders told him one Sabbath morning-,that there was twa Highland gentlemen come out ot'Glafgow, oe purpofe to hear him, becadfe of Kiscomical expreffions; a-well, faid he, thty had as goodflaid in,Glafgow. So it happened in time of the ferv)mon, that many of the people fell afleep, which-caufed him to flop and rebuke them^Sit up, faid heye fouks $about Patrick ; ye fup fo many milk brofo >that it is as impcffible to keep you from fleeping, as ;Highlandmen from Healing, and no but my own(wife. Hie mult have her nod as well as the reft o£ "your milk-meat fouks; but if the clerk was not a-fletp, 1 fheuid InHrument her for fleepirm in the kirk 'for it is an auld by-word, what may we not do, whenthe 'r -n Her s wile does it. ' ■4 COMICAL NOTES AND SAYINGSaye black fafliions. and black works have aye a blackreward : ye wadna day in honeft fouks fervice, butran awa’ thy ain black gates, and now ye’re come a-gain to that black leat; wow, woman, but thou wasin an anco hafte, it^coudna wait on a wedding-day,till I had gotten my gloves win; and does^thou think,poor woman, ever to do well, when thou has gottenIthy firft bairn frae the de’il, for a’ graceltfs thingsare curft ; thou fees the bits of herd laddies will tak3 aff their bonnet, and feek a bleffing to their brofe,1 but thou gaed into the bed, and call up thy black5gammons, and fought neither advice from God nor^man. O Beffie, Belhe, Black is your name, and blackfit your nature, and black is your fpot, and black ist'yovirhoe, hoe, hoe.b There was a young gentleman in his parifli, who^bad got a baftard, but would rrot come into obe-c riience to the feffion, nor mount the ftool. Thoughowned the child to be his, defended them for two* years, until they were going to excommunicate him,Shut Mr Pettegrew, went and got him one day byijhimfelf, and told him, if he would but come only^one day, he fhould fay nothing to him that he woulds take am-fs ; and if it lay in his power, he would ab-sfolve him the firft day. The young man gromifedfaithiu ly to appear upon tne aforefaid conditions,3 but the word thereof ipread through Glafgow, and1 the neighbouring towns,, that fuch a young man was-to be upon the ftool upon fuch a Sabbath, for asifOng as he had flood out againft it; therefore, every1 one was curious to go and hear his rebuke, thinking‘ |t would be a terrible one : fo when the day came,there was fuch a "Crowd of young ladies from Gbf-gow, that the kirk would not contain them, all thefeats and lofts round about in the kuk bemg filieclwith fine ladies, fo that the people of the parifh c; uld,npr get into their feats, after fermon, Mr TeUe-gr^w calls to him by his name, faying, Poor inttl, -thou is e%v.ftandtng there, to fiiew fatisfactK'ii {ot’|’that foul ef fornication j >W;I cannot blami1 OF THE LATE REV MR PETTEGREW. 5for it; thouisreal y to be pitied, for J believe thereis not a whore in a’ G 4gow or Pa fley but whathas followed thee here this day, and 1 can fay no¬thing to thee, for l fee it is not thy fault, thou hasbeen tempted o do it ; I maun juft aOlolve thee,though it be the first time, for l never faw fo manywnore-like huffies running after ae pcor fallow. TheI ladies looked one to another, but knew not what todo or fay for themfelves, however none of them re¬turned to hear the afternoon’s fermon, but madethe b; ft of their way home, with their new name,A WHORE.jj There happened a debate between a minifter and adoctor in Edinburgh, and in the heat of th tr atgu-. ment, the minifter called the do£tor aiv Ath-ift, asij was realley believed to be true, by the do£t r’s pra&'ce:: and profeffion ; yet the dc£tor purfued the mitlifteri: and would have him prove it, or lofs his k:rb for fay-0 ing fo. It continued along plea for two years or1 thereby. At laft the dpdlor was on the very point1 of gaining the law on the minifter : ad hop. s of de¬fence being gone, he wrote to Mr Pet eg.ew hwftate, and pleading that he would adv.fe him to > haiwas heft to be done. Mr, Pettegrew fent m n w.rd; that he could advife him to nothing but he fliould!■ come in all hafte. to fee what r-1 et could be madtj for him. So the laft court day that was to be about13 it, Mr. Pettegrew came to Edinburgh, and meeting1 with his brother miimter he fatuteu him, faying, Ati (Jear man, could thou not uccide this bit of a defeatt1 without fafhing me, an auid dean itock, to be hob'bliiig fae far awa’ ajter. your nontenle; it is a ftrangfthing that he has caiched fo much at your mouthyapd y can catch m ining at h s Then Mr. Pcttsgre* ordered lour gentle nen to fodow him clofc ah:s back, nd whatever he (aid to any perfon, to b;itire.what they at f*ered ag-fin. So he came to tfc'crofs where he law t e lodor and his advocateflandi/ig together before they went into the courtthfn he came cmk m othuttf him, ard fpartly clap6 COMICAL NOTES AND SAYINGS Iupon hi» (hould'er, faying, Sir, are you Do£lor Pit»cairn :he Athieft ? Yes, faid he, turning about fud-den'y. Very good, faid Mr. Pettegrew, I take youali to witnefe, he has confefled it himfelf. The doc¬tor flood as one demented, then faid, O Pettegrew,ihy fculi is as deep as hell. A wow, man, faid Mr.i Pettegrew, hi ft thou won to the belief that there is, ’a VdK His two advocates feeing all confoundedIby what he had faid, raged on him like two madmen,' then advifed him to an agreement with the minif-$ ter. \> One time, in his feflion, he had a young womanJ before him for getting a baftard. He alked her as“ follows: And where was that wain gotten now, ray* lady ? Indeed, Sir, it was gotten at the check of^MaAii’s-feire, (fhis.Maul’s-mire was a miry wet placej_cf grpisn 1 in the fiel.d, where nothing but graf* grew^)^ Maul 3 mi/t, faid Mr. Poltegrew, and a dirty hole it is,^wCtr.an, for 1 lair’d my horfe ae night in it. O fyfMaid one of t»he eiders, Mr Pettegrew, that’s baudy,'he thinking it was my a—He hole the lafs had faid.?Dear man, f|jd Mr Pettegrew, does thou think thatwould ridefthefe aw'a’ faddled and bridled, andWholes anew at hame*; : There happened another moft terrible debate in“his feffioh, concerning a young lady and a gentle-taan, who had been in the fair way to fornication ;Sthe witnefs fwrae, diat they faw the man’s hand be-^tweej; the woman’s thighs, and her hand in the bal-f^.p of his breeches. To which Mr. Pettegrew faid’Av. ay, the ce’ifhas keen in that man’s breeks, andHdl has been between that woman’s feet, when the'111.-was between them : and think ye that the de’ild uVbMe lang cut o’ hell? Na, na, I’ll warrantii ; f r ti de words, the lady would have a mendsof I 'r P ttegrew ; fo next Sabbath his lecture ied ;hir . .k ibmerhing of a whdrifti woman , hefirft ;: r to a city, then to a fhip, and wheifi fwe,.he Htr’ lah v, was coming to the church, he was fay -\vhen iai? gets up her. .fails, fixe fkips; o’er'tbs, ^OF THE L ALE REV. MR. PET EE GREW ?'waves with a lofty head, and there ftie comes, withsertop and top gallants, but (he has a leak in herbottom that will fink her to hell. The captain of a(hip being in the church and afleep, or near about i*,hearing thefe words, got up in a rage, crying, Up,tup, up, all hands aloft, pump and be d-——d. Tilmake her to fwim.Now in all his diverting fayings, he was never feanIto laugh himfelf but thrice.' The firft was, Ghee ashe wasfcgoing to church^ not far from his cwn boufe,one of his elders was eafing himfelf, and being in ahafte, becaufe Mr. Pettegrew Was coming that way,he pulled a docken tp dight his back-fide, but doingit too ralhly, his fingers went through, and were allbdhit: fo he gave his hand a halty wap backward,and fmote his fingers again!! ailfcne -wall, until tha(blood followed, and then bangs then! inro &ls mou'h,dirty aa they were. Mr. Pettegrcw feeing him comeinto the church after a while, and his hand tied up*when he minded the way he faw him get it, he burliout into laughter: the elders called a ftfiion betweenfermofis to inquire the. reafon, thinking he was gonemad; fo he ordered them to afk bow luch a man gothis hand hurt; to which he aijiwcrei,with a barrowful of muck. Then Mrtold the way he faw him get it, which nVlaugh very heartily. . , ,Another time as he was cPmirg from a .Prtfby?tery with other tv/ominiltdrs, they cailed at a Ho^afe•ivthe way for a refnfhnrlem. fa the landlady rcsfi-Tcd fame puddings on the fire, and Mr Fettegrevfwas a Iking a biefling before tftey*5^ to eat thsm, one*'of the puddings on'the fire fell a cliitplsig like a\moufe ; a young child, abc.ut two years of age, bti&gthen prefent, laid, ^Whift puddy, nae bocy maunpeek.here but ihe rioan that fays the grace : whereatidltljjee buift out into laughter. . s - -Another time, before Mr. Pettegrew entered into-the minifhy, paffing one day through the Ne;hcrhow-jolt cf Tdiahurgh, and obfeiving that one of the-.helping outPettegrcwide tfifcm all3 COMICAL NOTES AND SAYINGS, Sec.c,fwaiteis had a cullom of flopping? ai iioft every body,that haypetitd to be carrying any thing, under a pre¬tence ot fearching for prohibited goods, he got bflarge round ftone, and putting it below his cloke,,went veiy faU through th port, looking always be-'hind him as if he hat' been frighted ; the waiter fee-'ing this, anti th nking he. had catched a prize, pur-'fued afo r him immediately, overtook him, and or¬dered him in he k ng’s name to deliver up what hehad got below his clrke, which the ether refufedto do, inflaorly they fell fo feuffl ng, the one to feizetthe Hone and the other to keep it, till Mr Pette-tgrew, feeing an epp rtunity, letrhe ftone drop withgreat force upon the waiter’s toes, and running away,laughed at him with all his might, as did likewifethe people on the ftreet, while the poor waiter, fortthurt with the dreadful ftreke, could not walk ©n«ftep for a confiderable time, till Mr. Pettegrew eicaped out of his dutches-One warm fummer day, he was rid'ng into Paif-Iley, and having newly got a wig, the heat caufeihim to take it off, and put on his hat on the bardhead : and as he came to Paifley town, and could not]get his wig, he turned back, meeting with a womanon the way, he faid, Honett woman, did you fee aihaflnek of hair among your feet ? Ke awa’, ye filthym fleaid carle, what’s your bufinefs what I hae be¬tween my feet. The poor woman began to run offthe road, and he riding after her, crying' for her togive him his haffock of hair. A dc’i.’s in the carle^cried the wife, ye have hair enough, when, ye wearit above your hat. He then putting up his hand, andfinding the mtftake he was in, begged to be excufedof the woman, for his mifbehaviour.F I N I