CHEAP TRACTS, No. 9,Awful Phenomena of Nature !SNOW STORMS,'bird of March, and Twenty-third April, 18^7.i Fall of an AvalancheIN THE ALPS;\nd wonderful preservation of Three Womenburied under it.DUNFERMLINEPRINTED AJSD SOLD BY JOHN.^k0F SCOTLAND y)1828.i*eadfiil Sam! StormIN THE DESERT;'With several other Memorable Occurrences.Memorable Occasions..Accidents occasioned by the Storm, , »,1827.During the dreadful days of Saturday the 8rdand Thursday the 8th March, many shepherdsmade most hair-breadth escapes, while fearlesslybraving every danger in wearing their flocksfrom the weather side of the hills. In the ex¬tensive tract of country stretching around San¬quhar and Leadhills, the storm raged with dread¬ful violence ; and one poor fellow, named JamesBryden, was found dead at Todholes, parish ofKirkconnel within 200 yards of his own door.He perished on the Saturday, and his body wasnot found till late the following day. With theexception of the point of one of his shoes, the de¬ceased was completely immersed in snow, and hisfaithful dog was found lying under his right arm.The affectionate animal had suffer^ dreadfully,but weak and almost dying as it was, it evincedan unwillingness to be separated from its master.Poor Bryden was much respected, and has lefta widow and two children. Another shepherd.S;I.—of tfve fiame of David Dickson, thoiigtion Saturday, was not found till the fotlowi/igit morning. He had fallen down from cold and ex-'lit haustion, and though immediately carried to theh : nearest house, warmed and fed, it was long be-0 fore he could tell what had befallen him, A third1 shepherd, though nearly frozen to death, was( found standing' in an erect posture, but deprivedili alike of consciousness and feeling. Thei same awful day, Mr' J* ' B———. a most: I extensive and respectable shoe-maker, in Kilmar-> \ nock, and who has many relatives is this quarter,perished, while endeavouring to fefutn home.The coach on which he travelled, from Degan’sWell, stuck fast in a wreath at Drumbog-hili,and being* an outside passenger he was forced toalight.. The guard offered him one of the horses,and advised him to return to the Inn he had left;but being unaccustomed to ride, and having toldMrs B  that he would be home in the eve¬ning, he ventured to prosecute his journey onI foot. The snow at this time was falling fast,the wind howling along the heath, and before heI had proceeded far, he became bewildered, wan-')! dered to the top of the hill, and in the absence1; of all human aid, sunk down exhausted, and ex-if pi red. On Monday morning a volunteered partyj of his men, with a few of his friends, left Kil-t| marnock, to discover what had become of theirm master, and after a painful search found his body|)in the above spot. On Saturday. Sunday, andMi Monday, his respectable widow was in a dread-lliful situation, and feared the worst from the very4beginning. The above detail is perfectly accu¬rate, so far as it goes, and has been taken froma letter written by the Rev. A H minister, Kilmarnock. A woman, whose namewe have not learnt, but who was housekeeper tothe schoolmaster at Muirkirk, dropped downdead while looking at the men who were cuttingthe snow. H H , residing near Heath-wood, perished on the 2nd, on CorrieCommon, andat no great distance from her own house. Shehad been at Waterbeck, and her body was notdiscovered till the Monday following. In thecourse of Sabbath one of her sons passed andrepassed the spot where she lay, but the vitalspark had previously fled, and from the depthof the snow, no part of her body was visible.Two women, it is said, were dug out of a wreathnear Kellhead toll-bar, and there is a report ofa woman having fallen a victim to the storm,somewhere between Annan and Lockerby,The Carlisle Patriot of Saturday states, that“a woman belonging to Longtown, lost her lifein the «now. She had been to Springfield aftersmuggled whisky, and was relieved of her bur¬den by an Excise officer. Not disheartened,she returned for more; and on her way home¬wards, wandered out of her road upon SolwayMoss, and perished. She was found on theground, her head on her umbrella, and two blad¬ders of contraband spirits lying beside her.” Itis even said that two shepherds perished in theparish of Durrisdeer, and that one respectable5farmer has lost seventy score of sheep out ofOur Sanquhar correspondent, who possesses theil best means of information, says—The loss of sheepi stock is not so great as might have been expee-i ted.- Out of stocks of 2000, many farmershave not a ewe amissing : a few have lost from14 to 12, and though others are short from: 3 to 4 score, the woolly wanderers may yet castup. As the snow began to fell in day-light,the shepherds were early put on their guard, andin this way saved many a valuable hirsel.The drift on Thursday was so violent thatit was mid-day before the inhabitants of Sanquharcould venture to cross the threshold, even wherethey were in want of the necessaries of life. Of| some houses only the chimney tops were visible.The coach from Dumfries to Glasgow, stuck faston Saturday week near Auchenbeek. T. he guardhad to sit inside all night guarding the luggage,and the passengers, eight in number, were quar¬tered in Mr Templeton’s- As yet we have noaccounts from the high grounds, but it is sup¬posed that little mischief would be done to thesheep by the second storm, as the hollows worepreviously filled with snow. The roads are cutin all directions, and it is expected the commu¬nication will he open on Monday.Another correspondent 'A hose letter is datedfrom Newton-Stewart, on Friday last, says, “Atthis moment, 7 P- vve llear nothing of yes¬terday’s mails from Dumfries, Portpatrick, orWigtown. I am sorry to hear repeated accountsof the loss of sheep on our muirland forms. InGseveral instances, upwards of a score have been ]dug out of single wreaths, dead, and dying, «Cattle also, I believe, have suffered much.”A friend who writes from Waterbeck the sameday, says—Many sheep have perished; and thosewho have little fodder, will be put to their shiftsunless a thaw come. We are completely shutup, and in visiting a lady the other day, I hadto walk two miles over snow from five to sixfeet deep.From Gatehouse we have a letter dated Sa¬turday. Our correspondent writes as follows :I have conversed with an old gentleman from thecountry, who says there never was such a stormseen in his day. Two or three farmers in theparish of Girthon, will suffer considerably fromthe loss of sheep. Around Mr M ’s parkwall, the snow was from six to seven feet deep;hut a complete canal has been cut through it,so that carts and carriages may now pass. MrII— , and three commercial gentlemen, afterbeing detained several days in Dumfries, wereagain storm-stayed in Castle-Douglas. Theyarrived yesterday on foot, terribly fatigued, hav¬ing had to traverse huge wreaths at almost everystep of their way. lletvvixt this place and PortPatrick, several hundreds of men have been em¬ployed for days in cutting the road, and as athaw has commenced, the communication willvery soon be open.”The above is a very doleful paragraph, butas yet not half the truth is known, and there isreason to fear, that we will have many other7accidents to record. This day-week, fifty-threesheep were found buried and smoored on thecomparatively well-sheltered farm of Holestain.The poor animals had been dead for hours, andtheir carcases were sold at 4s. a-head. Nearerhome, at Tinwald, Torthorwald, and Kirkma-hoe, several sheep perished, though by far thegreater number were rescued alive. At theformer place, a whole flock were engulphed inone huge wreath, but the tups, from theirsuperior strength and agility, boxed their wayinto open day, and then stood bleating at theside of the wreath, as if in commiseration ofthose who were still in the grave they had justescaped from. The shepherds understood andobeyed the signal, and by dint of hard laboursaved the remainder of their master’s flock. Inthe course of their Search they actually dug outone or more smoored hares !The 23rd of April 1827, well deserves a placeamong memorable days. The storm which thenoccurred was general (ver Scotland. Its ap¬pearance and effects in Dumfries-shire havebeen thus described.After the mild genial weather we experi¬enced in the beginning and middle of last week,and the heavy showers which fell on Friday,who could have supposed that we would bevisited by another storm of snow ? Yet so it is,and we grieve to state that yesterday was trulya judgement-like day. At an early hour in themorning the hills were all white—the cottagesand farm-steadings hooded with snow. From88 til'l neixr 11 o’clock, the onfall ceased in a greatit'ensure, but shortly after it became more bitterthan ever, and, at a late hour last night, the topsof the houses, even in town, were as white asever we saw them in March. In the country,matters must have been far worse, and we grievefor the fate of many a lamb whose cradle willbe—not the budding heath or gowanv sod—butin all probability, a wreath of snow. In thelow grounds, where the lambing season is mostlyover, many of the ewes have dropped twins, butit is otherwise among the hilly and high districts,where the great bulk of our sheep stock is reared.There, speaking generally, the lambs dropped,are not above it day or two old, and those whohappened to he out of doors yesterday will havesome idea of their helpless situation. As yet,we have no accounts from the moorland districts,but there is some reason to fear that the 23rdof April will be as memorable in our annals asthe 3rd of March.Twelve o’clock, Monday night,—The onfallhas ceased, but it fearful to witness the state ofour streets. In the afternoon we went a litt’eway into the country, and white surveying thedesolate appearance of nature, our impressioncertainly was that February and March had re¬turned again. In a number of places the snowwas from four to six inches deep, and but forthe advanced period of the season the generaldepth would have been much greater. AroundMoffat the greatest fears are entertained for thesafety of die lambs • and vve know one farmer«< t   -, „ _J£_' 1c:eAi1-7rfkif•1%9who alighted from a mail coach, and hurriedback to his own residence—that is when he sawthe snow falling so fast—under the firm impres¬sion that his presence was imperiously called onto avert something' like absolute ruin.Remarkable Preservation of ThreeWomen.In 1755, they had in Turin a great fall ofrain; and as it generally snows in the mountains,when it only rains in the plain, it cannot appearsurprising, that during this interval, there fellvast quantities of snow on the mountains, whichof course formed several valancas. The badweather which prevailed in so many other places,prevailed likewise at Bergemoletto, a little ham¬let, seated in that part of the Alps whichseparates the valley of Stura and Piedmont fromDauphine and the country of Nice.On March 19th, many of the inhabitants of thishamlet began to apprehend that the weight ot thesnow which was already fallen, and still continuedto fall, might crush their houses, which are builtwith stones peculiar to the country, cemented bynothing but mud, and a very small portion oflime, and covered with thatch laid on the roof ofshingles, and large thin stones, supported bythick beams. I hey therefore got upon theirroofs, to lighten them of the snow.1UAt ft little distance from the church, stood thehouse of Joseph lioccia} a man of about fifty,who with his son James, a lad of fifteen, had, likehis neighbours, got upon the roof of his house,nt order to lessen the weight of it, and therebyprevent kg destruction.la the Meantime, die clergyman, who livedin the neighbourhood, and was about leavinghome, in order to repair to the church, andgather the people together to hear prayers, per¬ceiving a noise towards the top of the mountains,descried two valancas driving headlong towardsthe village; wherefore, raising his voice, he gaveJoseph notice instantly to come down from theroof, to avoid the impending danger; and thenimmediately retreated himself into his own house.Joseph Koccia immediately came off the roofat the priest’s notice, and with his son fled ashard as he could towards the church. He hadscarce advauced forty steps, when hearing hisson fall just at his heels, he turned about to as¬sist him, and taking him up, saw the spot onwhich his house, his stable, and those of some ofhis neighbours stood, converted into a huge heapof snow, without the least sign of either wails orroofs.Such was his agony at this sight, and at thethoughts of having lost, in an instant, his wife,his sister, his family, and all the little he hadsaved, that he lost his senses, swooned away,aud tumbled upon the snow. His son now helpedhim, and, coining to himself a little, he made ashift to get to a friend’s house at the distance ofa hundred feet from the spot where he fell. *11Mary-Anne, his wife, who was standing with< (her sister-in-law Anne, her daughter Margaret,hand her son Anthony, a little boy two years old,|at the door of the stable, looking at the peopleIthrewing the snow from off the houses, and•/waiting for the ringing of the bell, that was to. e.dl them to prayers, was about taking a turn to)ii the house, in order to light afire, and air a shirt: ifor her husband, who could not but want that(refreshment after his hard labour : but before sheicould set out, she heard the priest cry out to themto come down quickly ; and raising her trem¬bling eyes, saw the aforesaid valancas set oil,and roll down the side of the mountain ; and ati lthe same instant she heard a terrible report from4another quarter, which made her retreat backt|quickly with her family, and shut the door of the: stable. Happy it was for her that she had timei to do so : this noise being occasioned by anothernimmense valanca, the sole cause of all the miseryi and distress she had to suffer for so long a time;:i so that in a very short time the snow was lodged1 about forty-two feet in height, two hundred andr seventy in length, and about sixty in breadth.The inhabitants of Bergejnoletto, whom itpleased God to preserve from this disaster, beingI gathered together, in order to sum up their mis-s fortunes, first counted thirty houses overwhelmed;n and then every one calling over those he knew,i twenty-two souls were missing, of which numberi were their parish priest, who had lived amongi them forty years.The news of this terrible disaster soon spread12itselt over the neighbouihood; and all diefriends and relations of the sufferers, with manyothers, to the amount of three hundred, forkedof their own accord from the adjacent villages,to give their assistance on this melancholyoccasion.Joseph Roccia, notwithstanding his greatlove for his wife and family, and desire to recoverpart of what he had lost, was in no condition toassist them for five days. In the meantime therest were trying, by driving iron rods throughthe hardened snow, if they could discover anyroofs : but they tried in vain : the great solidityand compactness of the valanca, the vast extentof it in length, breadth, and height, togetherwith the snow that still continued to fall in greatquantities, eluded all their efforts : so that, aftersome day’s labour, they were obliged to desistuntil! the valley should assume its pristine form,by the melting of the snow and ice, from thesetting in of the warm winds, which continuedto blow from the end of March till aboutApril 20thOn the 18th of that month they began toresume their interrupted labours. All the per¬sons that were missing, were found dead exceptthose of Joseph Roccia’s family. Assisted bythe two brothers-in-law, and son, be at lengthpenetrated to his house, but found no deadbodies in it.Knowing that the stable did not lie 100 feetfrom the house, they immediately directed theirsearch towards it, and having got a long pole13ilirough a hole, they heard a hoarse and languidpice issuing from it, which seemed to say,1 ‘ Help, rny dear husband! help, my dearbrother! help.”The husband and brother thunderstruck, andbind at the same time encouraged by these words,ell to their work with redoubled ardour, on thei dace whence the voice came, which grew morelistinct as the work advanced.It was long before they made a pretty large'pening, through which the brother descended,s into a dark pit, asking who it was that could!>e alive in such a place ? Mary Anne knewlim by his voice, and answered with a tremblingud broken ascent, intermixed with tears of joy,’Tis I, my dear brother, who am still alive inompany with my daughter and my sister-in-aw, who are at my elbow. God, in whom Iave always trusted, still hoping that he wouldaspire you with the thoughts of coming to ourelief, has been graciously pleased to keeps alive.”The passage being enlarged, they were takenut with all convenient speed; and beingrought to a friends house, were there fed on abin diet, and in small quantities at a time, asuiting their state of .inanition ; when theirtrength was a little recruited, they gave antccount that they subsisted all that time on thenilk of two goats, which had been shut up withhem, and about a dozen chesnuts, that lay in theiianger, where they found some hay with whichhey fed the goats, one of which becoming dry, thenothir, fortunately with kid, dropped it, whichhaving killed, this goat yielded them about a pintol milk each day, till their deliverance: that thelittle boy of two years old died in a short timeafter they were confined in the stable, as did anass, and some hens that then happened to be inthe same place; and that they sufi’ered extremelytro«i cold and wet, the snow continually drippingupon them as they lay in the manger.Tilesi poor sufferers were relieved by the mu¬nificence of the king of Sardinia, their sovereign,and the several donations they received, whichenabled them to rebuild their house, and set theirother affairs to rights.In April of the year 17^7> they all enjoyedperfect health, except Mary Anne, who suffereda dimness of her sight, by being too hastily ex¬posed to the light. The others returned to theirusual field labour, and ever after continued to livethe same life they did before their misfortunes.Storm in the Desert.The morning was delightful on our setting out,and promised us a fine day $ but the light airsfrom the south soon increased to a gale, the sunbecame obscure, and as every hour brought usinto a looser sand, it flew around us in suchwhirlwinds, with the sudden gusts that blew,that it was impossible to proceed. We halted,therefore, for an hour, and took shelter under15.lie !ee of oiir beasts, who were themselves soi leriified as to need fastening by the knees, andi ittered in their wailings but a melancholyliymphony.[ I know not whether it was the novelty of thei ituation that gave it additional horrors, ori Ivhether the liabit of magnifying evils to whichve are unaccustomed, had increased its effect;nut certain it is, that fifty gales of wind at seai ppeared to me to be more easy encountered( ban one amongst those sands. It is impossi-de to imagine desolation more complete; we3 ou'd see neither eun, earth, nor sky ; the plain1 t ten paces distance was absolutely impercep-' ible; our beasts, as well as ourselves, were so1overed as to render breathing difficult; they. fid their faces in the ground, and we could onlyincover our own for a moment, to behold this, haos of mid-day darkness, and wait impatient-i y for its abatement. Alexander’s journey tohe temple of Jupiter Ammon, and the destruc-s'ion of the Persian armies of Cambyses in the'^ybian desart, rose to recollection with newimpressions, made by the horror of the scenei icfore me; while Addison’s admirable lines,ilybich I also remembered with peculiar force onilhis occasion, seemed to possess as much truthI is beauty." Lo! where o’er wide Numidian wastesextend,M Sudden the impetuous hurricanes descend,i W hich through the air in circling eddies play,16Tear up the sands, and sweep the whaleplains away,I he helpless traveller, with wild surprise,Sees the dry desart round and round him rise,And, smothered in the dusty whirlwind, dies.”1 he few hours we remained in this situationwere passed in unbroken silence ; every onewas occupied with his own reflections, as if theregion of terror forbade communication. Itsfury spent itself, like the storms of ocean, insudden lulls and squalls ; but it was not untilthe third or fourth interval that our fears weresufficiently conquered to address each other ;nor shall I soon lose the recollection of the im¬pressive manner in which that was done: “ A1lah kereem l” exclaimed the poor Bedouin, al¬though habit had familiarized him with theseresistless storms. “ Allah kereem !” repeatedthe Egyptians with terrified solemnity; andboth my servant and myself, as if by instinct,joined in the general exclamation. The boldimagery of the Eastern poets, describing theDeity as avenging in his anger, and terrible inliis wrath, riding upon the wings of the wind,and breathing his fury in the storm, must havebeen inspired by scenes like these.”The Rusty Nail.When Dr. Donne took possession ef'his firstliving, he took a walk into the church-yard,17|vhei’8 the sexton was digging' a grave, amibrowing up a skull, the doctor took it up andidund a rusty headless nail sticking in the teni-ole, which he drew out secretely, and wrapt itip in the corner of his handkerchief. He thendemanded of the grave-digger whether heKnew whose skull that was. He said it wasi man’s who kept a brandy shop ; an honest,drunken fellow ; who one night having takentwo quarts, was found dead in his bed nextmorning. Had he a wife ? Yes. What characterdoes she bear ? A very good one : only theneighbours reflect on her because she marriedithe day after her husband was buried. Thiswas enough for the doctor, who, under the pre¬tence of visiting his parishioners, called on her :lie asked her several questions, and among others,what sickness her husband died of. She givingihim the same account he had before received, hesuddenly opened the handkerchief, and cried inan authoritative voice, “ Woman do you knowithis nail ?” She was struck with horror at the(unexpected demand, instantly owned the fact,4was tried, and executed.Massacre of Glencoe.This barbarous massacre, which took place inthe reign of William the Third, has, aboveevery other act of his reign, sullied the memoryI of that otherwise illustrious monarch. That hesigned the warrant for this shocking execution! is indisputable ; as he himself did not deny it,(hut pretended, in vindication of himself, that he18Jiad subscribed the order amidst a heap of othepapers, without knowing' its purport. It ishowever, well known, that he sanctioned thmassacre expressly at the instance of the Earof Breadalbane, who had represented Macdonald of Glencoe as an incorrigible rebel, ama ruffian inured to bloodshed and rapine, wh’iwould never be obedient to the laws of hicountry, nor live peaceably under any sovereignThis malicious representation of Breadalbanetogether with his concealment from the king oMacdonald’s submission to government, b*taking the oath of allegiance, forms indeed thbest excuse for William, who would not, it i:to be presumed, have sacrificed these unhappypeople, had he known that they had discontinuestheir predatory opposition to his governmentand retired peaceably to their homes. As t*his ordering an inquiry to be set on foot, amdismissing the master of Stair from the employmeat of secretary, when a violent outcry waiafterwards raised on the occasion, it was nothingbut a feint to rid himself of the odium of thirtransaction ; for those who had “ made hiiauthority subservient to his revenge,” wer*never severely punished, as they undoubtedlydeserved to be, had they acted iadependant O'his authority. The truth is, the Earl O'Breadalbane had vowed to take this bloody re1venge on Macdonald, who had plundered hislands during the course of hostilities, and woultnot indemnify him afterwards for that loss!!The soldiers who performed that infamouil19I (iservice \va^ a company of Argyle’s reg'nient,commanded ' y Captain Campbell of Glenlyon.“ They marched into the valley of Glencoe,under pretence of levying the arrears of theland-tax and hearth-money. When Macdonalddemanded whether they canie as friends orenemies, Campbell answered, as friends ;and promised, upon his honour, that neither he(Macdonald) nor his people would sustain theleast injury ! In consequence of this declara¬tion, Campbell and his men were received withthe most cordial hospitality, and lived fifteendays with the men of the valley, in all the ap¬pearance of the most unreserved friendship. Atlength the fatal period approached.”“ Macdonald and Campbell,” says Smollet,having passed the day together, parted aboutseven in the evening, with mutual professionsof the warmest affection. The younger Mac¬donald perceiving the guard doubled, began tosuspect some treachery, and communicated thissuspicion to his brother ; but neither honor thefather would harbour the least doubt of Camp¬bell’s sincerity; nevertheless the two youngmen went forth privately to make further obser¬vations. They overheard the common soldierssay, they liked not the work ; that though theycould have willingly fought the Macdonalds ofthe glen fairly in the field, they held it base tomurder them in cold blood, but that their offi¬cers were answerable for their treachery.When the youths hasted back to apprise theirfather of the imponding danger, they saw the20Hou«e already surrounded! They heard thedischarge of the muskets, the shrieks of thewomen and children, and, being destitute ofarms, saved their own lives by flight. Thesavage ministers of vengeance had entered theold man’s chamber, and shot him through thehead. He fell dead into the arms of his wife,who died distracted next day by the horror ofher husband’s fate. The design was to butcherall the males under seventy who lived in thevalley, the number of whom amounted to twohundred ; but some of the detachments did notarrive soon enough to secure the passes, so thal 1eight and thirty persons only suffered ; thegreater part of whom were surprised in theirbeds, and hurried into eternity before they hadtime to implore the Divine mercy ! Campbell,having perpetrated this brutal massacre, orderedall the houses to be burned, made a prey of allthe cattle and effects that were found in thevalley, and left the helpless women and childrennaked and forlorn, without covering, food, orshelter, in the midst of the snow that coveredthe whole face of the country, at the distanceof six miles from any inhabited place. Dis¬tracted with grief and horror, surrounded bvthe shades of night, shivering with Cold, andappalled with the apprehension of immediatedeath, from the swords of those who had mur¬dered their friends and kinsmen, they couldnot endure such a complication of calamities,but generally perished in the waste before theycould receive the least coniibrt or assistance.”21When we meet in history with the records;of such horrible deeds, we cannot fail to be; astonished that wretches, or rather monsters ini human shape, should be found, who wouldjconseHt to be the passive instruments in theirsiperpetration.Severe Winter of 1740;During the greatest part of this winter, theupoor had been grievously afflicted in consequenceI of a severe frost, which began at Christmas,Jand continued till the latter end of February.The river Thames was covered with such acrust of ice, that a multitude of people dwelt|iiupon it in tents, and a great number of boothsliiwere erected for the entertainment of the popu¬lace. The navigation was entirely stopped ;the watermen and fishermen were disabled fromearning a livelihood j the fruits of the earthwere destroyed by the cold, which was so ex¬treme, that many persons were chilled to death;and this calamity was tire more deeply felt, asthe poor could not afford to supply themselveswith coals and fuel, which were advanced inprice, in proportion to the severity and continu-ance of the frost. The lower class of labour¬ers, who worked ia the open air, were now de¬ll prived of all means of subsistence ; many kindsof manufacture were laid aside, because it wasbound impracticable to carry them on. Thenprice of all sorts of provisions rose aktios? f<dearth : even water was sold in the StreetsLondon.In this season of distress, many wretchedfamilies must have perished by cold and hunger,had not those of opulent fortunes been inspiredwith a remarkable spirit of compassion andhumanity. Nothing can redound more to thehonour of the English nation, than did those linstances of benevolence and well-conductedcharity which were then exhibited.French Army in Russia.The following description of the melancholy'situation of the French army, after the passageof the Beresina, is extracted from a small pare- ,phlet, wi itten by a German officer, in the ser¬vice of Russia, which has been published at Str. 'Petersburgh :—“A rigorous cold now perfected their misery—no longer capable of supporting the severity !of their sufferings, arms and baggage werethrown away. The greater part, without shoesor gaiters, had emvrapt their legs in pieces ofblankets, and twisted old hats round their feet.Each endeavoured to secure his head and shoul¬ders from the cold with whatever covering he Ifcould find ; some with old sacks and mats, ]|others with the skins of animals recently flayed If—happy those who were possessed of scraps of I123fur. The officers ami soldiers, overtaken withdeath-like numbness, with arms folded, andcountenances fixed, followed each other. Theguards fared no better than the rest. Coveredwith rags, and dying with hunger, and withoutarms, all resistance was impossible. The cryof “ Cossack” put whole columns in consterna¬tion ;—their line of march was strewed withbodies ;—each bivouac resembled next day afield of battle. No sooner had one fallen fromfatigue and cold, than he was stripped by hisI comrades to cover themselves with his clothes.II Ail the houses and barns were set on fire, andij every burnt space was covered with the bodiesl;of those, who, having approached, and beingunable to retire when the flames reached them,w’ere consumed. The roads were strewed wdthiprisoners unable to proceed. To such horrorsij succeeded others, if possible, still more dreadful.1 Pale and disfigured by the smoke, they wer<^iiseen ranged round the fire like spectres, sittingnon the dead bodies of their comrades, until, likefthem, they fell and expired. The feet of num-'jbers, by being exposed to the Cold, were gan¬grened, and reduced to a state of perfect imbecility*—they with difficulty walked ; others had lost ’their speech. Some, from excess of cold andmnger, wrere siezed with madness, and roastedmd eat the flesh of their dead comrades, orgnawed their own hands and arms. In thistate of frenzy, many rushed into the flames anderished, uttering the most dreadful cries. Inr.e, it is impossible for any one, who has not24witnessed this most frightfnf spectacle, to formany true idea of these Hinted calamities, unex¬ampled in the annals of the world.”Power of Violent and Sudden Grief.A remarkable instance of the power of suddenand violent grief, operating on keen sensibility,occurred in Paris, during the horrors of therevolution. It happened on the memorable andbloody 10th of August, 1792, when th# un¬fortunate Louis and his family, attacked by afurious mob in the palace of the Thuilleries,sought for refuge in the convention.“ When the infuriated mob were draggingaway a dead body, a lady, with dishevelled hairand a countenance of wild distraction, forcedthrough the crowd. She came to seek anassassinated husband ! The body was mangledand disfigured, but it resembled the adoredobject she sought. She approached it, andgazed on it. She seized the right hand,and found her wedding ring. She instantlysunk on the beloved corpse, clung roundit, and became senseless and motionless.Horror-struck, the spectators stared, and atlast would tear her from the dismal sight ; theyseparated her from the body, but she had diediu the embrace!.”