FUN UPON FUN;OR,Leper,The Tailor.in TWO PARTS.THE MERRY TRICKSOFLEPER, THE TAILOR.Leper’s father lived in a village about sixmiles from Glasgow, and died when he was'but very young ; he left a widow and threechildren, two daughters and a son ; Leperbeing the youngest, was greatly idolized byhis mother, who was a good soft-naturedwoman, very industrious, and followed thebleaching of cloth.As Leper grew up he grew a very mis¬chievous boy, playing many tricks in theneighbourhood^ such as tying cats to dogs’tails, breaking hens’ legs, stopping people's,lums, or chimney-tops ; so that his poormother was sadly vexed with complaintsagainst him.To get him kept from mischief, she pre¬vailed with a tailor to take him as an ap¬prentice ; he settled and was very peaceablefor some time, until he got as much of histrade on his finger ends as he might pass3for a journeyman, and then he was in¬different whether he stayed with his masteror not; his mistress gave him but very-little meat when he wrought at home, so heliked best to be in other houses, where hegot meat and diversion.Leper being resolved on revenge againsthis mistress for her thin kail, no kitchen,and little bread ; for though flesh was boiledin the pot, none was for poor Leper andhis master, but a little bit on Sundays, andall the bones were kept and put in the potto make the broth through the week.Leper perceived, always when she took offthe pot, she turned her back and took outthe flesh, and set it on a shelf in her ownbed-room ; one night, after work, he stealsout a pan, cuts a piece of flesh out of a deadhorse, and then goes to a lime kiln, andboils it ; next day, his master being fromhome, his landlady and he being in thehouse, after she had set the pot as usual,and taken out her bit of good beef, he goesout for some time and then comes in, say¬ing, ‘the minister’s lass is wishing to seeyou, to go directly and speak to her mis-5‘tress.’ Off she goes in all haste; Leperruns and takes away her bit of good meat,rand lays down his horse flesh ; and knowing4she would return in a passion, and sit downwith a soss in her cushioned chair, as sheused, he takes a large pin and staps itstraight through the cushion, with its headon the chair, and the point upwards. Soin she comes in a rage, and down she sitswith all her weight on the pin point; andshe roars out ‘murder! murder!’ for she wassticket; the neighbours came running in,and Leper went out with his bit of goodbeef, leaving the wives to doctor his land¬lady as they pleased ; he still denied thedoing of it, and his master believed itmight happen accidentally, but the houdiewas very oft to be had before it was gothale again ; and his landlady by eating ofthe horse beef took such a loathing at flesh,that Leper and his master got all the beefever after, and his landlady turned one ofthe kindest mistresses a prentice could wishfor.There was a neighbour wife on whomLeper used to play tricks sometimes, forwhich she came and complained to hismaster and had him severely beaten severaltimes. Leper resolved to be revenged onher, so one night he came to the backof the house (no one being in but herself),and took up a big stone and runs along the5ough wall with all his strength, which roar-:d like thunder in the inside of the house,.nd frighted the wife so that she thought thelouse was tumbling down about her ears,nd she ran out and sat down at a distanceDoking every minute when the house wouldill down, till her husband came home andpersuaded her to go in, to whom she toldhe above story ; ‘hout tout, daft tapie,’ saide, ‘the house will stand these hundredears.’ Leper knowing they were both in,omes and plays the same trick over again,?hich also frightened the good man so muchlat he cried out, ‘run, Maggy, run, for myeart plays pitty patty.’ And they wouldot lodge in the house any more, till thelasons convinced them of its sufficiency.There was another neighbour who had alading cur dog, which bit Leper’s leg.-eper resolved to be revenged on the dog,nd so one night he catches the dog, andIrries him to the kirk, where the rope ofe bell hung on the outside, so with hisirter he tied the dog’s fore foot to the rope,d left him hanging ; the dog struggling to:t free set the bell a ringing, which alarmede village, every one cried out ‘wonderful,e! wonderful, fire! the devil is ringinge bell.’ When they saw the black collie6hanging at the rope, 1 trow it set theminister and all the people to their prayersbut Leper fearing he would be detected by 'his garter, came to the minister’s side, andasked the reverend gentleman what was thematter ; ‘indeed, my bairn,’ said he, l’tis thedeil ringing the kirk bell ;’ says Leper ‘I lljgo and see him, for I never saw the devil;’,the minister cried stop the mad laddie, butLeper ran and loosed the dog, crying ‘itssuch a man’s dog which had the rope in itsteeth; they all cried out, ‘the deil’s i’ the:cur, the deil’s i’ the dog,’ then took up stones;and felled poor collie, and the devil got theblame of making the dog ring the bell.This spread Leper’s fame, for being one of;the wisest and most courageous tailors that,was in all the kingdom ; and many shakingtheir heads, said ‘it was a pity he was a'tailor, but a captain or a general of an army, ;as the devil could not fear him.’After this, a farmer in the neighbourhoodhearing the fame of Leper, how he hadfrighted the deil frae being a bellman, sentfor him to an alehouse, and drank with himvery heartily, and told him he was sadlyborne down by a spirit of jealousy againsthis wife ; and a suspicion of her being toofree with a servant lad he had betore ; and7if he would keep it a secret and learn himto find it out, he would give his mother aload of meal, to which Leper agreed ; so hegave the poor supposed cuckold instructionshow to behave. So home he goes andfeigns himself very sick, and every dayworse and worse, taking death to him ;blesses his three small children, and chargeshis wife not to marry until his childrencould do something for themselves ; thishypocritical woman takes a crying, ‘Aha!marry,’ she would never marry! ‘no, no,there should never a man lie by my side, orkiss my lips after thee, my ain dear lamb,Johnny.’ Then he acts the dead man aswell as he possibly could, the neighbourswere called in, and he’s fairly o’erseen, asthe old saying is, before good neighbours.The sorrowful widow made sad lament,wrung her hands and tore her hair. Thereverent women about began to dress thecorpse, asked her for a shirt. ‘Ay, ay,’said she, ‘he has twa new linen sarks, andthere is an auld ane in the bottom o’ thekist, that naebody can wear ; ony thing’sgood enough for the grave;’ ‘well,’ saidthey, ‘we must have some linen for a wind¬ing sheet;’ ‘aweel,’ quo’ she T ha’e twacut o’ linen i’ the kist neuk, but there’s a8pair o’ auld linen sheets, hol’d i' the middle,may do well enough, I had need to be care¬ful, I’m a poor widow the day, wi’ threesma’ bairns.’Well, the corpse is dressed and laid onthe tap of the big chest, while neighbourssat by her condoling her misfortune, andhow the funeral raisins were to be providedSaid one, ‘ the coffin must need be seen aboutfirst.’ ‘Ay, ay, he has some new deals in thebarn ; he bought them to make a bed o’;but we’ll no break them, there’s the auldbarn door, and the caff kist will do wellenough, ony thing’s gude enough to gangto the grave wi’; but O,’ quo’ she, ‘send forSandy, my honest auld servant, and he’llsee everything right done; I ’ll tell him wherehe’ll get siller to do anything wi’ ; he’s thelad that will not see me wrang’d. ThenSandy comes wrying his face, and rubbinghis eyes. ‘O, Sandy, there’s a sad altera¬tion here,’ and ba-a, she cries like a bittencalf, ‘O sirs, will ye gang a’ butt the housetill I tell ye what to do.’ Butt they went,and there she fell a-kissing of Sandy, andsaid, ‘now, my dear, the auld chatteringghaist is awa and we’ll get our will o ither ;be as haining of everything as ye can, forthou kens it’s a’ thy ain ;’ but the corpse/9sister and some other people coming in, benthey came to see the corpse, lift up thecloth off his face, and seeing him all in apour of sweat, said, ‘heigh, he’s a bonnycorp, and a lively like colour.’ When hecould no longer contain himself to carry onthe joke, up he got among them. A dealof people ran for it, and his wife cried out‘O, my dear, do you ken me?’ ‘Ay, youbase jade, better than ever I did.’ Jumpson the floor, gets his staff and runs afterSandy, and catches him in the fields, alittle from the house, and gave him themost unmerciful belabouring that man evergot; so that poor Sandy went homewith a skin full of terror, and a sorting ofsore bones, took a sore fever, and died aa few days after ; so he got quit of hiscuckolder, and Leper’s mother got her loadof meal.Leper’s mother was a careful industriouswife, but as the bye-word is, ‘a workingmother makes a dally daughter,’ and so ithappened here, for she had two glaikit slutsof daughters that would do nothing but liein their bed in the morning, till, as the say¬ing is, ‘the sun was like to burn a hole intheir backsides.’ The old woman, who wasbleaching some cloth, was very early atIOwork in the mornings, and Leper’s patiencebeing worn out with the laziness of his twosisters, he resolved to play a trick on themfor their reformation, so he goes and gets amortcloth, and spread it on the bed abovethem, and sends the dead bell through thetown, inviting the people next day, at fouro’clock afternoon, to the burial of his twosisters, for they had died suddenly. Thisbrought all the neighbouring wives in, whoone after another lifted up the mortcloth,and said, with a sigh, ‘they’ve gone to theirrest; a sudden call indeed!’ Their aunthearing of this sudden news, came running-in all haste, and coming where the jades’mither was at work, and was ignorant of thestory, she cries out ‘Fye upon ye, woman, |fye upon ye!’ ‘What’s the matter, sister,’says she, ‘what’s the matter ?’ T think youmight let your wark stand for a’e day, whenyour daughters are baith lying corpses.’‘My bairns corpse ! I am certain they wentto bed hale and fair last night.’ ‘But, I tellyou,’ said the other, ‘the dead bell has beenthro’ warning the folks to the burial thenthe mother cries out, ‘O the villian ! O thevillian, that he did not send me word.’ Sothey both ran, and the mother as soon asshe entered the house, flies to the bed, cry-II/ing, ‘O, my bairns, my dear bairns;’ onwhich the sluts rose up in a consternation,:o the great surprise of the beholders, and:he great mortification of the girls, who:hought shame to set their noses out ofloors, and to the great diversion of thevhole town.PART I I.Leper’s landlady became very harsh to hismaster, and very often abused him exceed¬ingly sore with her tongue and hands, andalways called upon him for more money,and to have all the money in her keeping,which Leper was sorry for. 11 so happened ■on a day that the tailor had got a heartydrubbing, both with tongue and tongs, thathe pouched his thimble and was going tomake a queen of her. When she saw thatshe cried out, ‘O! will you leave a poortender dying woman.’ But Leper knowingthe cause of her ill nature better than hismaster did, advised him to take her on afine day, like a mile out of town andgive her a walk, and he would stay at homeand study a remedy for her disorder. Awaythey both go ; but as she was also complain-I3ing for want of health, and that she wasvery weak, she cried out frequently, ‘0 !’tis a crying sin to take a woman in mycondition out o’er a door.’ During theirabsence, Leper goes and searches the bed,and finds a bottle of rare whisky, ofwhich he takes a hearty pull, then makesup the difference with dirty water ; gets ahalfpenny worth of snuff, and puts it in also,shakes all together, and so sets it in its placeagain. Home they came, and she wasexceedingly distressed as a woman could be,and cried out, it was a horrid thing to takeher out of the house. The tailor seeing herso bad, thought she would have died, ranas fast as he could for a dram, but she in herhypocrisy pretended she could not take it,and called on him to help her to bed, intowhich he lays her. She was not well gonewhen she fell to her bottle, taking two orthree hearty gluts; then she roars out,‘Murder, I’m poisioned, I’m poisoned.’Docking and purging began, and the neigh¬bours were called in ; she lays her bloodupon poor Leper, and tells how such anhonest woman brought her a’e bottle asanother was done, and the murdering loonhad stolen it and put in a bottle of poisoninstead of it. Leper took to his heels, butT4was pursued and carried before a Justice ofthe Peace, where he told all he had done,which made the Justice laugh heartily atthe joke ; and the tailor’s wife was wellpurged from her feigned sickness, laziness,and cursed ill nature ; for always when shebegan to curl her nose, for the future, thetailor had no more to say, but ‘ Maggy,mind the bottle.’Leper was working with a master-tailorin Glasgow, who hungered his men ; andone morning, just when breakfast was seton the table, in comes a gentleman to tryon a suit a clothes. The master beingobliged to rise, desired the lads to say thegrace themselves. Every one refused it,and put it to his neighbour, till Leper under-to.ok it, and said with an audible voice, thatthe stranger gentleman might overhear him,as follows:—‘Och, hoch ! we area parcelof poor beastly bodies, and we are asbeastly minded, if we do not work we getnothing to eat; yet, we are always eatingand always fretting; singing and half-starving is like to be our fortune ; scartingsand scrapings are the most of our mouthfuls.We would fain thank Thee, for our bene¬factors are not worthy the acknowledging ;hey. Amen.’ The gentleman laughed tillr5his sides were like to burst, and gave Leperhalf- a-crown to drink.Leper was not long done with hisapprenticeship till he set up for himself, andgot a journeyman and an apprentice, wascoming into very good business, and hadhe restrained his roguish tricks, he mighthave done very well. He and his ladsbeing employed to work in a farmer’s housevwhere the housewife was a great miser, andsnivelled through her nose greatly whenshe spoke. In the morning when she went:o make the potage, she made a fashion of.Washing the pot, which to appearanceseemed to him to have been among the first::hat had been made ; then sets it before thelire till she went to the well, in which timeIi—eper looking into it, sees two great holestapped with clouts, he takes up his goose,:nd holds it as high as his head, then letst drop into the pot, which knocked out the>ottom of it. Presently in comes the wifekith the water, and pours it into the pot,fkhich set the fireside all in a dam, for still•s she poured in, it ran out: the wife beingiihort-sighted, or what they call sand blindrooks into the pot, holds up both her handsmd cries, ‘Losh, preserve me, sirs, for the1 riP at ween the twa holes is broken,’ Saysi6Leper, ‘the pot was old enough ; but do younot ken that tailor’s potage is heavier thanother men’s.’ ‘Indeed, lad, I believe it, butthey say ye’re a warlock ; it’s Wednesdayto me indeed, my pot might ha’e servedme this fifty year, a sae wad it e’en.’This sport diverted Leper and his ladsthrough the day, and after supper, knowinghe was to get some dirty bed, as the cowsand the people lived all in one apartment,he choose rather to go home ; and knowingthe moon was to rise a little after midnight,he sat by the fire, told them many a finestory to drive away the time, and bade thewife make the bed to see how it might be.To save candle she made it in the dark, juston the floor behind where they sat, shakingdown two bottles of straw. A calf whichchanced to be lying on that place, andwhich the wife did not notice, was coveredwith the straw, and the bed clothes spreadover it. The most of the family being inbed, the wife told them to go to bed also,,but Leper knowing of the calf, said, Tilmake my bed come to me,’ on which the wifebegan to pray for herself and all that was inthe house ; so up he gets his ellwand, and!gives a stroke on the bed which caused the!brute to rise, and not seeing where to go, itti711 a crying and turned round, which sette whole house a-roaring out murder in:teir own tongue. The goodwife ran to bedx>ve the goodman, and the whole familyied out, not knowing what it was ; buteper and his two lads whipt off theankets, and the brute ran in among the:st unperceived ; then Leper lighted aindie, and all of them got out of bed, paideper for his work, and more if he pleased,id begged him to go away, and take theivil with him. So home he went, but“ver was employed by that wife any more.Leper had a peal of the best customers)th in town and country ; so one time heid occasion to go to the Parish of Inchinan,' make a wedding suit for a gentleman,fter they were finished, he desired drinkoney for his lads, which the gentlemanfused. Leper resolved to be even withm, so he goes to the hay loft where the■oom slept, and takes his stockings,■eeches, and jacket, sewed them together,id stuffs them full of hay ; makes a head,Jits a rope about the neck, and hangs it ontree, opposite to the laird’s window ; thenlies to the laird and tells him that his groomid hanged himself, and that if he wouldoen his window he would see him hanging;i8the laird was struck with astonishment, andknew not what to do ; Leper advises him tcbury him privately. The laird said he hadnot a servant he could trust, so beggedLeper to do it. Leper refuses, till the lairdpromises him a load of meal ; then Lepetipulls out all the hay out of the groom'rclothes; goes and gets his load of mealand sends it to Glasgow ; then goes to thegroom, and says ‘Thy master is wantingthee. So the lad in all haste runs to seewhat his master wanted. The laird nosooner saw him open the door than he criedout, ‘Avoid thee, Satan ; avoid thee, Satan!'The lad says, ‘What’s the matter?’ ‘Didyou not hang yourself this morning?'‘ Lord forbid ! said the lad. The laird saysi‘If thou be an earthly creature, take thatitankard and drink ; which he did. Themsays he to his master, ‘ Leper called me up,;and said you wanted me in all haste.’;‘Ho, ho,’ said the laird, T find out the story*now; if I had Leper, I would run mysword through him.’ But Leper beforethat was gone to Glasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads their]Sunday’s supper, which obliged him to stay?from the kirk in the afternoon, he having;neither wife nor servant maid ; so one Sunn19day afternoon, as he was cooking his pot,John Mucklecheek, and James Puff-and-blaw, two civileers, having more zeal thanknowledge, came upon him, and said,‘What’s the matter, sir, you go not to thekirk?’ Leper replied, ‘I’m reading mybook and cooking my pot, which I thinki is a work of necessity.’ Then says the oneto the other, ‘ Don’t answer that graceless' fellow ; we’ll make him appear before hisbetters.’ So they took the kail pot, andputs a staff through the bools, and bears iti to the clerk’s chamber. Leper, who wasi never at a loss for invention, goes to thePrincipal of the College’s house, no bodyl being at home but a lass roasting a leg of[ mutton. Leper says, ‘My dear, will you go; and bring me a drink of ale, and I’ll turnt the spit till you come back.’ The lass wasi no sooner gone than he runs away with the1 leg of mutton, which served his lads andi him for supper. When the principal camei home, he was neither to baud nor to bind, hef was so angry ; so on Monday he goes andi makes a complaint to the Lord Provost,/ who sends two officers for Leper who camei immediately. My Lord asked him how he0 dared to take away the Principal’s mutton.1 Leper replied, ‘How dared your civileers20to take away my kail pot ? I’m sure thereis less sin in making a pot full of kail, thanroasting a leg of mutton ; law makers shouldnot be law breakers, so I demand justice onthe civileers.’ The Provost asked himwhat justice he would have, Says he,‘make then carry the pot back again ; andto the Principal, a leg of mutton will notmake him and me fall out.’ So they wereforced to carry the pot back again. Lepercaused the boys to huzza after them to theirdisgrace.There was a barber who always plaguedLeper, and called him ‘ prick-the-louse.’Leper resolved to be even with him, so hegoes and buys three sheep heads, and sendsfor the barber, and told him that there werethree fine Southland gentlemen just cometo his house, which much wanted to beshaved, and he assured him he wouldreceive sixpence for each of them. Thisgood news made the shaver send for adram. Leper was still praising them forquiet good natured gentlemen. So Lepertakes him to the bed where the sheep headslay covered, and desired him to awakenthem for they would not be angry, or say anill word to him. The barber lifts the cover¬ing and sees the sheep heads, runs outcursing and swearing, and Leper cryingafter him, ‘Sheep head barber.’The barber resolved to be revenged on.Leper, so when he was shaving Mess John,he tells him that Leper was the drunkenestfellow in the parish. So Mess John warnshim to the session. Leper comes and says,r‘What do want with me, Sir ?’ ‘Come away,.Leper,’ says Mess John, T hear a badreport of you.’ ‘Me Sir, I am sure theywere not my friends that told you that.’1‘Indeed, I am informed you are a drunkard.’I a drunkard ; you have not a soberer mann your parish. Stop, Sir, I will tell younow I lead my life:—In the morning, Icake a choppin of ale and a bit of bread,r:hat I call my morning; for breakfast, Igenerally take a herring, and a choppin ofllle, for I cannot sup brose like my lads ;i:he herring makes me dry, so at eleven hours11 take a pint, and sometimes three choppins;at supper, I take a bit of bread and cheeserind a pint, and so go to bed.’ Mess Johncays, ‘It’s excessive drinking ; I allow yourone half of it for a quarter of a year.’Says Leper, ‘I’ll try it, Sir, and come backind tell you.’ At the end of the quarter^ie draws out his account, and goes to Mess< ohn, who was sitting with his elders in theSession-house, and says ‘Sir, I have ademand on you.’ ‘On me, Sir.’ ‘Yes, onyou, Sir, don’t you remember you allowedme so much drink for a quarter of a year,and I want the money.’ ‘Am I to payyour reckoning, Sir.’ ‘You allowed it, andif you wont pay it, I’ll take you before theProvost.’ The elders advised him to payit or he would be affronted ; so Leper gotthe money. When he was at the door, hesays, ‘Sir, will you stand another quarter ?’‘Get away,’ says Mess John, ‘and don’ttrouble me.’ Leper says, T am sure youmay, for I am always twopence to yourpenny.’THE END.& U g G U Q T M §*INCONVENIENCE OF A PETITION.A reverend gentleman, when visiting hisparishioners, was in one house first saluted 'with the growling of a dog, and afterwards •by the cheering voice of a female. Cursingthe dog for his ill-breeding, he advanced rand enquired for the master of the house. ;‘What do you want wi’ that?’ said the ‘/23female. ‘We are wishing to see him,’ saidthe reverend gentleman, ‘will ye be sogood as bring him to us?’ ‘I’ll gang naesic an errand,’ said she ; ‘ye may gang doonto the market yersel’, an’ ye’ll see himthere ; they’re thrang killin’ the day. Butwhat are ye wantin’ wi’ Pate, if a bodymicht speir.’ ‘This is the minister,’ saidthe elder who accompanied him, ‘he is wish¬ing to have some conversation with Peter,an<^. 5° Put UP a petition.’ ‘A petition ! apetition!’ exclaimed the matron, ‘ye’ll putup nae petition here; the house is weeeneugh already, an’ wha do ye think’s gaunto be fashed wi’ masons and wrights, an’ a’they clanjamfray about their house ? Faithno—the devil a petition will be putten upin this house as lang’s am in’t; we’re gaun‘ to Hit at Whitsunday, so ye may come thenjan’ put up as mony petitions as ye like.’DUKE OF BUCCLEUCH.Tienry, Duke of Buccleuch was greatly•(beloved by his numerous tenantry. One ofiihis small tenants, Jamie Howie by name,Tad a son about four years of age, whohaving heard much of the great Duke ofIBuccleuch, was very anxious to see him.24Honest Jamie, in a few days, was honouredwith a visit from the Duke ; when Jamiedoffing his bonnet, and making a reveren¬tial bow, says, ‘O, my lord! ye maunna beangry wi’ me, but it’s God’s truth, my lord,there’s a daft wee callant o’ mine that cannarest, nor let others rest, nicht nor day ; hehas ta’en in his head sic a notion o’ seeingwhat like ye are; gudesake, my lord, Idinna think he has ony yedea ye are a manat a’, but some far awa, outlandish, ower-seacreature.’ The Duke, mightily tickled withthis fancy, desired Jamie to bring the young- |ster into his presence forthwith. Outcomes ;the juvenile inquisitor, with his finger in his ;mouth, and cautiously reconnoitres thepersonage before him. At last quoth theurchin, ‘Can ye soom ?’ ‘No, my little 1fellow,’ replied his grace. ‘I canna soom.’ >‘Can ye flee ?’ ‘No, I canna flee.’ ‘Weel, [man, for as muckle’s ye’re, I wadna gie ane ;o’ my father’s dukes for ye, for they can |baith soom an’ flee.’