■m QVffltomtj ' ?wojcjaTanr tjviA.aanaw aaam?.STOBYOPPRINCE LUPINANDTHE WHITE CAT.A certain king had three sons, all hand¬some, brave, and fine young gentlemen;but being suspicious that they had formed adesign to deprive him of his crown, hethought of a method to divert them fromtheir intended purpose. Having called themone day into his closet, he spoke to them asfollows My sons, I am now come to agreat age, and cannot apply myself to publicaffairs with so much care as formerly; there-Ifore I intend to fesign my crown to one ofyou: but, as it is but right to require someproof of your abilities, in order to determinetthich is the most worthy of so valuable a! present, I propose and promise, that he whoI hall bring me the most beautiful little doghall immediately take possession of tnykrone.”The three princes readily agreed to thisproposal, each concluding himself most;likely to succeed in fulfilling this extraordin¬ary request. After taking leave of the kingthey set out, with orders to return that daytwelvemonth with dogs. Each took a dif¬ferent road, without any attendants; butwe shall leave the two eldest at present, andconfine our story to the youngest.This accomplished prince, as he was moredesirous to show his duty to his father thanjto become a king, was more fortunate in hisundertaking than either of the others. Onenight, having travelled till it was very late,and being overtaken by a storm in a largefforest, he discovered a light at a distance,,and, pursuing his journey with all speed, he-arrived at a most stately castle, the gates oJwhich were of massy gold, and the walls olfine china, whereon were painted the histor-jies of all the fairies that ever appeared onearth. At the door hung a chain of dia¬monds, with a deer’s foot at the end; onpulling which, the prince heard a bell of sapleasing a sound, that he concluded it to be cmade of gold or silver. Immediately thcfdoor opened, and twelve hands, each holdinga flambeau, gently conducted him into a hallof motherof-pearl, and from thence througha vast variety of chambers, all richly cover-*ed with paintings and jewels. The boautjrthese ornaments was greatly heightened: a number of lights, that hung from thefling in glass sconces of exquisite work-fin ship. •lifter having passed through sixty apart-jnts, a fine easy chair moved towards himfits own accord; the fire lighted itself, andl hands pulled off his clothes, which hadin drenched in the storm, and dressed him1 others so extraordinarily fine and rich,t it dazzled his sight to behold himself,jhile the prince was in the utmost aston-anent at this uncommon adventure, he sawmultitude of cats enter the room, and seatilmselves on the bench. One held aisic-book, and some played on instruments,Jile others beat time. In the midst ofIs concert, a small figure came forward inmourning veil, led by two cats in blacklaks, and followed by a long train of cats,ne with rats, and others with inice, indr mouths. The young prince was so sur-sed, that he had not power to move; whenlittle figure, lifting up its veil, discoveredprettiest white cat that ever was seen,frince,” said she, “be not afraid, bute me your company with cheerfulness,shall be the ambition of me and all myjwing attendants to give you pleasure.”On a signal given, supper was brought; but the prince at first declined eating,% 1till Whit* Catj gnessfeg th« rea^n,sured him that there were no rats nor min dny thing that was set before him.the prince was admiring this beautiful dhe observed a small picture hanging upher foot. He asked her to show it hi]and how great was his surprise to seecharming young man very much resembllhimself! yet, observing the White Catsigh, he was afraid at that time to satihis curiosity concerning it, and so endecured to divert her by entertaining convjsation, in \vhich he found her to be extremisensible, and acquainted with every thilthat passed in the world. He slept evinight in ah apartment hung with tapes!tnade of the wings of butterflies, on a tof the most delicious flowers, and every <5was spent in the most delightful amusemel ;In this manner almost a year slipped awinsensibly; and the prince entirely for^his native home and the little dog he wascarry to his father. But the White Cknew when he was to return; and one daas they were walking together in a grOnear the palace, “Do you remember, princesaid she, “ the promise you made yo! :father ? Your brothers have already pi!cured some curious little dogs, and there imain hut three days for you to find 01mere beautiful, or lose a kingdom.” Th« 1.7ivotus awoke the prince from his dream ofpleasure. <{ Alas!” cried he, u what have1 been doing- ? My honour is lost for ever.”'--“Do not afflict yourself,” said the WhiteCat; “I wall find a horse that will carryyou home in less than twelve hours. Andas for the little dog, take this acorn, in whichthere is one: put it to your ear, and youwill hear it bark.” The prince did so, and,transported with pleasure, thanked her athousand times. Bidding her farewell, he|mounted the wooden horse, and arrived athis father’s palace just as his brothers enter¬ed the courtyard. He ran to embrace them,and all three went together to the king.—The two eldest presented their dogs, whichwere so equally beautiful, that it was impos¬sible to know in whose favour to determine.But the youngest soon put an end to thedebate; for, pulling the acorn out of hispocket and opening it, they saw a little doglying on cotton, so small that it might gothrough a ring; it was of a mixture oicolours, and its ears reached the ground.The king was convinced that nothing couldbe met with so beautiful; but, being unwil¬ling yet to part with his crown, he told hischildren, that he must make a further trialof their love and diligence before he perform¬ed his promise: they must take another8year to find out a web of cloth fine enoughto go through the eye of a small needle.This request, though unjust, they thoughtit best to comply with: and our princemounted his wooden horse, and returned withspeed to his White Cat, on which alone hedepended for assistance. He found her laidon a quilt of white satin. As .soon as shesaw him, she expressed the utmost joy;while the prince caressed her in the mosttender manner, and told her the successof his journey. The White Cat redoubledher efforts to render the prince more happy,if possible, than he had been before. Hewished for nothing but the hands whichbrought it to him; and the second year rolledaway so fast, that the prince would againhave forgot his orders, had not the WhiteCat reminded him thereof: “ But makeyourself perfectly easy concerning the web,”said she, “for I have one wonderfully finei'Take this walnut; be sure to crack it inyour father’s presence, and you will find in itsuch a web as you want.”The prince thanked her in tho mostgrateful manner; and was presently carriedby the wooden horse to his father’s palace,where his brothers had got before him.They pulled out their webs, which were ex-,ceeding fine, and would go through the ey©of a large needle* but could not be made to9pass through the eye of a small one. The,king was going to avail himself of thispretext, when the youngest prince unex¬pectedly entered, and produced a walnut,which he cracked. Finding only a kernelof wax, the king and all present ridiculedhim for thinking to find a web of cloth in anut. However, he broke the kernel, andsaw in it a corn of wheat, and in that agrain of millet-seed: he then opened themillet-seed, and, to the utter astonishmentand confusion of all the beholders, drew outa web of cloth four hundred yards long.The needle was brought, and the web wasput through the eye of it five or six timeswith the greatest ease.The king fetched a deep sigh, and turn¬ing towards his sons, 11 My children,” saidhe, u I am still desirous of putting you toa new trial: go for another year; and hethat brings me the most beautiful damsel,shall marry her and be crowned king; andI swear most solemnly, that I will requireno other proof of your filial affection anddiscretion.” Our sweet prince heard thistyrannic command without a murmur; and,remounting his courser, flew to his dearWhite Cat;'which, knowing the momentof his return, was prepared to receive him inthe golden gallery. u Prince,” said she,u the king I find, has refused you the crown;19however, I hope you will take care to deserveit, and I will provide you with a beautifuldamsel who will gain the prize.”The prince grew more and more fond ofher; and in her abode enjoyed every mag¬nificent entertainment that fancy couldinvent.—When this last year was near ex¬pired, the White Cat thus addressed him:u If you are sensible of the favours I haveconferred upon you, now is the time to makeme amends. Do not hesitate, but cut offmy head and tail, and throw- them into thefire,” Tears started from the prince’s eyesat this request, and he was going severaltimes to refuse; but the White Cat insistedupon it so earnestly, that at last, with r1trembling hand, he chopped off her headand tail, and threw them according to orderinto the fire, In an instant the body of theWhite Cat was changed into the most beau¬tiful lady that ever was seen, and imme¬diately a great number of gentlemen andladies, holding their cats’ skins over theirshoulders, came and fell prostrate at her feet,crying, u Long live our gracious queen !How great is our joy to see her once morein her natural shape!” The prince wasglad beyond description to behold so charm¬ing a creature, but could not help express¬ing an earnest desire to know the cause ofthis surprising transformation. “ Restrain*1oar curiosity,” says the lovely queen,till we arive at your father’s court, where,am now ready to accompany you, and!here I will relate my unheard-of mis-►rtunes. Come, see, the carriage waits.*p saying, she gave her hand to the prince,ho led her into a chariot, the inside of whichfas fine velvet, set with brilliants, the out-jde gold; and the horses’ harness was madei emeralds.Away they flew, and were presently atle gates of the king’s palace, where them eldest princes were already arrived withieir two princesses, in fine calashes of blue,nbossed with gold. The courtiers crowdedpresent these three illustrious couples toe king. The two eldest princes with theirdies advanced first, and were received very'aciously by the monarch, who declaredey had brought him two such beauties,at he knew not to which he should givee preference; but the moment the young-t approached with his queen, both full of■ace and dignity, the king cried out instacy, (i This is the incomparable beauty,lose worth and excellence claims and de-rves my crown!”—u I came not to robu of your crown,” answered the discreetteen; “I was born heiress to six kingdoms,ive me leave to present one of them to you,d one to each of your gone; for which IIfaak no other return than this amiable princein marriag-e.”The king and all the court were struclwith joy at this declaration; and the nupftials were celebrated the same day with grea.magnificence. Never were a pair morhappy; and the young prince, to the lasmoment of his life, blessed the accident thaled him to the abode of the sweetCat.ISTHE YELLOW DWARF.| —fc=©©)OI©e=—There was once a queen, who, though shehad born many children, had hut one daugh¬ter left alive, of whom she was fond to anexcess, humouring and indulging her in all,her ways and wishes. This princess wasexceedingly beautiful, so that she was calledAll-Fair, and had twenty kings courtingher at one time. Her mother, being advan¬ced in years, would fain have had her mar¬ried and settled before she died, but noentreaties could prevail; whereupon she de¬termined to go to the Desert Fairy to askI ad vice concerning her stuborn daughter.Now, this fairy being guarded by two'ifierce lions, the queen made a cake of millet,osugarcandy, and crocodiles’ eggs, in orderto appease their fury and pass by them; andhaving thus provided herself, she set out ,After traveling some time, she found herself weary, and, lying down under a tree,,fell asleep. When she awoke, she heard thelions which guarded the fairy roaring, uponwhich, looking for her cake, shq found itwas gone. Ibis threw her into the utmostagony, nat knowing how to ®ave herself.6and wondered at by the whole court. Thebest way to divert her, they thought, wouldbe to urge her to marry; which the prin¬cess, who was now become less obstinate orthat point than formerly, consented to; andjthinking that such a pigmy as the YellowDwarf would not dare to contend with s(gallent a person as the King of the GoldejMines, she fixed upon this king for hehusband, who was exceedingly rich an<powerful, and loved her to distraction. Thmost superb preparations were made fothe nuptials, and the happy day was fixed,when, as they were proceeding to the cert |(mony, they saw moving towards them jbox, whereon sat an old woman remarkabl ,for her ugliness.—u Hold queen and prim jcess,” cried she, knitting her brows, “remember the promises you both made to mj,friend the Yellow Dwarf. I am the Desei .Fairy, and if All-Fair does not marry hiirI swear by my coif, I will burn my crutchjTThe queen and princess were struck motiojlless by this unexpected greeting of tilFairy; but the Prince of the Golden Minfwas exceedingly wroth; and, holding ]sword to her throat, “ Fly wretch !” salhe, or thy malice shall cost thee thy lifel,No sooner had he uttered these words, thcjthe top of the box flying off, out came iYelbw Dwarf, mounted upon a laij17(Spanish cat, who placing himself betweenIhe king and the fairy, uttered these words:!~u Rash youth, thy rage should be levelledit me, not at the Desert Fairy; I am thy-j ival, and claim her by promise, and a single'air round her finger.”■ This so enraged the king, that he cried; 4, contemptible creature! wert thou worthyi * notice, I would sacrifice thee for thy pre-■ imption.” Whereupon the Yellow DwarfJ apping spurs to his cat, and drawing a(rge cutlass, defied the king to combat; andi they went into the court-yard. The sunten immediately turned red as blood, and/; became dark: thunder and lightninglowed, by the flashes whereof were perTved to giants vomiting fire on each sidethe Yellow Dwarf.The king behaved with such undauntedlirage as to give the Dwarf great per-xity; but was dismayed, when he sawDesert Fairy, mounted on a wingedffin, with her head covered with snakes,ke the princess so heard with a lance,t she fell into the queen’s arms all overa blood. He left the combat to go torelief; but the dwarf was to quick for11, and, flying on his Spanish cat to theiony where she was, he took her from< mother’s arms, leaped with her upon' 18 jthe top of the palace, and immediately d|appeared.As the king stood confused and astonishat this strange admiture, he suddenly fou)a mist before his eyes, and himself lifted ]in the air by some extraordinary power: ithe Desert Fairy had fallen in love wjhim. To secure him for herself, therefo:she carried him to a frightful cavern, hopiJhe would there forget All-Fair, and trgmany artifices to complete her designs. Blfinding this scheme ineffectual, she resohjto carry him to a place altogether as pleasdas the other was terrible; and accordingset him by herself in a chariot drawn ■.swans. In passing through the air, hfe h 'the unspeakable surprise to see his adoiiprincess in a castle of polished steel, leanilher head on one hand, and wiping away ttears with the other. She happened to laup, and had the mortification to see the kilsitting by the fairy , who then, by her amade herself appear extremely beautifHad not the king been sensible of the fair] tpower, he would certainly then have triedfree himself from her. At last they ca!ito a stately palace, fenced on one side • >walls of emeralds, and on the other mboisterous sea.The king, by pretending to be in 1cwith the fairy, obtained liberty to walk, f19himself on the shore; and, as he Was oneday invoking the powers of the sea, he hearda voice, and presently after was surprisedwith the appearance of a Mermaid, which,coming up with a pleasant smile, spokethese words:—“O King of the GoldenMines, I well know all that has passed inregard to you and the fair princess. Don’tsuspect this to be a contrivance of the fairy’s ito try you, for I am an inveterate enemy'*both to her and the Yellow dwarf; therefore,if you will have confidence in me, I willlend you my assistance to procure the releasenot only of yourself, but of All-Fair also.”The overjoyed king promised to do whateverthe Mermaid bade him; whereupon, settinghim upon her tail, they sailed away on arolling sea.When they had sailed some time, “ Now,”said the Mermaid to the king, “we drewnear the place where your princess is keptby the Yellow Dwarf. Ybu will have manyenemies to fight before you can come to her;take, therefore, this sword, with which youmay overcome every thing, provided younever let it go out of your hand.” Theking returned her all the thanks that themost grateful heart could suggest; and theMermaid landed and took leave of him,promising him farther assistance when ne¬cessary.20The king* boldly advanced, and meeting-with two terrible sphiny.es, laid them deadat his feet with his sword. Next he attackedsix drag-ons that opposed him, and despatchedthem also. Then he met with four andtwenty nymphs, with garlands of flowers,at sight of whom he stopped, being loath todestroy so much beauty; when he heard a jjvoice say, 11 Strike! strike! or you willlose your princess for ever!” upon which he .threw himself into the midst of them, and 5soon dispersed them. He now came in viewof All-Fair, and, hastening to her, ex¬claimed, u 0 my princess, behold yourfaithful lover!” But she, drawing back,replied, “Faithful lover! Did I not seeyou passing through the air with a beautifulnymph? Were you faithful then?” “Yes,”replied the king, “ I was. That was thedetested Desert Fairy, who was carrying jlme to a place where I must have languished lrout all my days, had it not been for a kind j|?Mermaid, by whose assistance it is that I Tam now come to release you.” So saying, IJl1he cast himself at her feet; but, catching Phold of her gown, unfortunately let go the f11magic sword; which the Yellow Dwarf no |sooner discovered, than, leaping from behinda shrub where he had been concealed, he ran 'and seized it. By two cabalistical words jhe then conjured up a couple of giants, who ;21! laid the king in irons. u Now," said thedwarf, “my rival’s fate ’ is in my own| hands; however, if he will consent to mymarriage, he shall have his life and liberty.”; “No,” said the king, “ I scorn thy favouri on such terms;” which so provoked thei dwarf, that he instantly stabbed him to the11 heart. The disconsolate princess, aggravatedi to the last degree at such barbarity, thusi vented her grief:—u Thou hideous creature,i since entreaties could not avail thee, perhapsthou now reliest upon force; but thou shaltjbe disappointed, and thy brutal soul shalli know perpetual mortification from the mo-i ment I tell the I die for thee love I have forii the King of the Golden Mines !” And soii saying, she sunk down upon his body, anda expired without a sigh.j Thus ended the fate of these two faithfuldo vers, which the Mermaid very much re¬gretted; but, all her power lying in thesword, she could only change them into two1 palmtrees; which, preserving a constantmutual affection for each other, caress andI unite their branches together.THE THREE WISHES.There was once a man, not very rich, whohad a yery pretty woman to his wife. Oiipwinter’s evening, as they sat by the fire,they talked of the happiness of their neigh¬bours, who were richer than they. Said thewife, “If it were in my power to have whatI wish, I should soon be happier than all ofthem.” <c So should I too,” said the hus¬band; “I wish we had fairies now, andthat one of them was kind enough to grantme what I should ask.” At mat instantthey saw a very beautiful lady in their room,ho said to them, “I am a fairy; and Ipromise to grant to you the three first thingsyou shall wish; but take care—after havingwished for three things, I will not grant onewish further.” The fairy disappeared; andthe man and his wife were much perplexed.f 4 For my own part, said the wife, 4 4 if itwere left to my choice I know very wellwhat I should wish for: I do not wish yet,but I think nothing is so good as to behandsome, rich, and to be of great quality.”But the husband answered, 44 With all thesestilings one may be sick and fretful, and onemay die young: it would be much wiser towish for health, cheerfulness, and long life.”44 But to what purpose is long life with po-23verty ?” says the wife: i( it would only pro*-long your misery. In truth, the fairyshould have promised us a dozen of gifts,for there are at least a dozen things which Iwant.” “That may jbe true,” said thehusband; “but let us take time; let usconsider till morning the three things whichare most necessary for us, and then wish.”“I’ll think all night,” said the wife;“meanwhile let us warm ourselves, for it isvery cold.” At the same time the wife tookthe tongs to mend the lire; and seeing therewere a great many coals thoroughly lighted,she said without thinking on it, “ Here’s anice lire; I wish we had a yard of blackpudding for our supper; we could dress iteasily.” She had hardly said these words,when down came tumbling through thechimney a yard of black pudding. ‘ ‘ Plagueon your greedy guts with your black pud¬ding!” said the husband : “here’s a finewish indeed! Now we have only two left;for my part I am so vexed, that I wish theblack pudding fast to the tip of your nose.”The man soon perceived he was sillier thanhis wife; for, at this second wish, up startsthe black pudding, and sticks so fast to thetip of the poor wife’s nose, there was nomeans to take it of. “ Wretch that lam!”cried she; “you are a wicked man forwishing the pudding fast to my nose.” “ My24dear^answered the Husband, li I tow I didhot think of it; but what shall we do? I iam about wishing for vast riches, and pro- Jpose to make a golden case to hide the pud¬ding.” “ Not at all,” answered the wife;“for I should kill myself, were I to livewith this pudding dangling at my nose : bepersuaded, we have still one wish to make;leave it to* me, or I shall instantly throwmyself out of the window.” With this sheran and opened the window; but the husband,who loved his wife, called out, “Hold, my {dear wife! I give you leave to wish for whatyou will.” “Well,” said the wife, “my^wish is that this pudding may drop off.” Atthat instant the pudding dropped off; andthe wife, who did not want wit, said to herhusband; “The fairy has imposed upon sus; she was in the rig-ht; possibly we should (have been more unhappy with riches than weare at present. Believe me, friend, let uswish for nothings and take things as it shall j!please God to send'them : in the mean time, jlet us sup upon our pudding, since that’s allthat remains to us of our wishes.” The jhusband thought his wife judged right; jthey supped merrily, and never gave them- !selves further trouble about the things whichthey had designed to wish for.FINIS.