theMonthly Schap Book,POa MARCH.“ O ! who can speak his joys when Spring’s young momFrom wood and pasture opened on his view.When tender green buds b'ush upon the thorn,And the first primrose dips its leaves in dew.CONTENTS.fhe Newspaper,    ^The Eagle,   3The Nuptials ; a tale of the Olden Time..„ *tManchester   )4The Poisoned Valley 1(5The Burgher Guaids of Hamburgh, 18Variety of Short Scraps, 21Garden Work to be done in March, . ... 24DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN MILLER.' 1832Price One Penny,\/,THE NEWSPAPER.Thermometer of politics ! strange folio of news !Which young and old, which rich and poor, which grave and guy,peruse;lA faithful portraiture of all the manners of the age;A picture of the actors proud who crowd the public stage;A medley of most rare events ; a 'l map of busy life,”With all its shifting lights and shades, its pleasure and its strife;Containing acts of statesmen wise, accounts of bloody wars.Rebellions, murders, robberies, infernal feuds and jars ;How greedy churchmen meanly fawn, and to a patron bow ;What small regard for people’s rights the most of princes show ;Slow wily lawyers love to hear of squabbles and contentions ;Slow titled fools, tho’ wanting sense, arc often blessed with pensions ; •Slow some are hunting after fame, how some are seeking health.And others wiih avidity are toiling after wealth :The varying phrases of the times there we distinctly mark.And see the nation’s healthful signs, or plague-spots deep and dark.It is a Courier bringing news from shores and climes afar ;A H erald with the flag of peace, or symbol red of war ;A lUercury hastening on its way, the messenger of fate ;A rum that lights us with its ray ; a Standard of the state ;A Record of the Times ; a Globe that daily shews its light ;A “ Northern Whig” that forward comes, and pleads the people’s right;, i’■fis a Spectator looking on with sharp discerning eyes ;A calm Observer of the world ; Examiner that prysInto the schemes and secrets deep that statesmen sly devise ;An Atlas large of politics ; a Morning Post that fliesWith fashionable gossip round ; a Chronicle of news ;A Journal of intelligence ; a Scotsman true, that viewsWith joy the efforts making now in freedom’s noble cause tA Free Press urging on Reform, with just and equal laws ;An Advertiser spreading wide accounts of roups and sales,With prices of estates and books, of ships and merchants’ bales.It is a thing that’s sorely taxed to fill the public purse,Which selfish politicians fear, and despots loudly curse ;And though it seems a feeble thing, of trail materrals mark,It can alarm oppressors fierce, and helpless sufferers aid ;For, guided by the voice of troth, it has a power unknown,A leter that can overturn the greatest tyrant’s throne.November, 1831. TloHn Strap.i. AVVnJ A.THEMONT Mi Y SCRAP BOOK.THE EAGLE.R In summer, 1828, the writer of the following pagesi traversed the greater part of Galloway, visiting ini his course every hill and loch whose locality is at[ all celebrated in the district. During this excursioni he met and conversed with many shepherds, and< was careful to gather from them every thing they; knew concerning the eagle. Among the hills a!-; most every shepherd is familiar with the appear-Ji ance of these birds, and though their statementsl vary in some points, they all agree in this, that“ every year they are getting scarcer and scarcer.”> So far from complaining of their depredations,several store-farmers assured me that the eaglesj never touch a lamb or sheep until life has become? extinct from natural causes. Every season thereis more or less mortality in the flocks, and the ea-i! gle’s sense of smell is so remarkably acute that b<*>; scents carrion at some miles’ distant. When theiri numbers were greater and provisions scarce, ne-i cessity, no doubt, must have compelled them toi. carry off living lambs, and' I have often heard1 Major Miller mention a case which occurred when; he was residing at Braemar Lodge, in which aireagle lighted among a her4 of deer, fixed its ta-4 THE MONTHLYJons in the head of a devoted doe, pierced the skull,and had actually begun to feast on the brains at tthe very moment the animal fell. On another oc¬casion, a voracious bird, of the same species,pounced on a‘setter-dog, the property of some of fthe keepers at Braernar, and bore it as high as thesurrounding trees, when the pup, by its yelping andstruggles to escape, so alarmed the enemy, that heirelaxed his hold, and soared with the greatest speedaway. Yet, notwithstanding of these facts, I aminclined to believe that eagles do very little mischief!at present beyond poaching most extensively.Hares, conies, grouse, black-game, patridges, car¬rion, and vermin, are all considered their lawfulprey j and some of them, by frequenting lakes andrivers, assail! the finny tribes as often as they can,.,and live by levying contributions from the waters. JFor several years past a brace of eagles, whose ey- •lie is perched amidst the cliffs of Cairnsmuir, havevisited Cally every summer, m quest, no doubt, of Ithe hares and rabbits with which that piiucely do- ■main abounds. The game-keepers, who are wellaware of their errand, have sometimes put their ilongest barrels in requisition, an*l attempted to bringthem down with ball j but their efforts hithertohave been unsuccessful—a circumstance I rejoiceat, rather than regret. The distance from Callyto the top of Cairnsmuir must be at least a dossynmiles as the crow flies ; but this, of couise, is mererecreation to the most lordly bird that cleaves theair, and is perhaps performed in a briefer spacethan a gentleman about to travel can older hisget it saddled, and brought round to the door.aSCRAP BOOK.From his vicinity to the hills, zeal as a natur¬alist, and ardour as a sportsman, Mr S ewart, ofCairnsmuir, possesses more practical k nvledge of; the haunts and hab ts of the Scottish i^le, thanr any gentleman I ever meet with. O?. more thani one occasion, he has marked their eyries, and a fewi years ago, after adopting the proper precautions,he sent a person down the cliffs with the view of' securing a particular nest, when he kne v the pa¬rent birds were both abroad. The messenger suc-e seeded, and returned safely from his voyage of dis-/eovery, though he only captured one eaglet. In¬deed there was only one in the nest—a circum¬stance by no means uncommon. It is of the verynature of birds of prey to be jealous am: quarrel¬some in a high degree *, and eaglets, I am told,begin to fight almost as soon as they are out of theshell. In this way the eyrie, like some other nur-i series, is apt to become a scene of uproar, when its• guardians are abroad on other business; and at9 meal-time, when rations are brought in and divided,f particularly when the demand exceeds the supply,: feuds arise about the “ loaves and fishes,"’ whichnot unfrequently terminate in the stronger birdi thrusting the weaker from the nest, long before itsi pinions are grown, to meet its fate on the cliffs be-^ low. An assault of this kind had occurred in the* ease of which I am speaking, ai d Air Stewart,> though anxious for a pair at the time, had to cm -i tent himself with a single nursling of the wild.(Shortly after he shot its mother, a magn ficentspecimen of the golden eagle, with legs, or ratherTHE MONTHLY-thews, almost as thick as a man’s wrist, ami mea-*suring, in the stuffed state, as near as may be,three feet hioh. Her son is of inferior height andstrength, both from bis sex and the captivity he has iendured ; for I need hardly remark, that fern altbirds of prey are larger than the males—an anomaly,certainly in the history of the species, but at thesame time, a wise provision of Nature, seeing thatthe mother has most to do in catering for her cal-ilow young. The live eagle at Cairnsmuir retainsall his instinct unimpaired. \\ hen I saw him lastyear, he was in tolerable feather, hopping about andfacing his visitors with the greatest boldness ; and'like all the tribe, he seems to have an eye thatnever cowers—at least from fear. Though hisfood is rarely stinted, he likes best to kill his owrrmeat, and if a domesticated fowl happen to straywithin his range, its doom is fixed and its fatesealed. Instantly it is severed into a number o;fragments, with a dexterity no carver could equal,though the head and brains are always eaten first*as affording the most delicious morsel. I he prac¬tice followed by some of skinning hares and rabbits!before surrendering them to birds of prey, is as un¬wise as it is unnecessary. In his natural state, tin-eagle has a contempt for the subdivisions of labour ;the game laws, too, he sets at defiance ; far amwide, without leave asked or given, he acts as hitsown huntsman, butcher, or cook ; even when con¬fined, he takes great delight in skinning for himself;,and as he uniformly swallows a portion of the fur,,this fact of itself is decisive as to the proper modeof treatment, and proves that down of some kind!SCRAP BOOK. ff is necessary to promote the important process of; digestion. In the days of falconry, small balls ofworsted were administered to hawks after a gorge;f and every one knows that canaries, linnets, &e.,f pick up sand and other substances, and thus avertmany dyspeptic evils to which thousands, with reason! to guide them, are martyrs during the greater partof their lives. Eagles, when confined, are generallyI fed every second day, though it is known they can fast• for a week or more, without any great abatement: of strength. Like the Indian hunter, their meansof subsistence are rather precarious, and at certain3 seasons, they must often pass the day without aa meal. Mr Stewart’s easrle—a fact which I hold(Oto be not a little curious—refuses to touch a birdof prey, however hungry he may be at the time.Again and again the experiment has been tried,and as often, after smelling the quarry, and pluckingoft'a few feathers, hawks, ravens, owls, atul bats,have been thrown aside as a tainted thing. 1 havealready hinted that birds of this kind appear to L-nuntameable ; and I very much doubt whether theyi could be taught, after the greatest care, to obey theI falconer’s call or whistle, and hunt as much forI other’s pleasure as their own. After an acquaim->i ance of several years’ standing, Mr Stewart and« his eagle are on as distant terms as they were atfirst—so much so, that in approaching him, hef must carry a stick, and move very warily to boot,1 to eschew the consequences of a flap of the wing—a stroke ot the beak—or a dig of the claws. Everydog that has heard his chirrup, takes care to keep: at a respectful distance ; and if a stranger cur hap-« THE Ai05*TiILYpt'ft to stray within forbidden bounds, the firstglimpse ot the inmate <»f the den makes him take toi;s heels with the speed of lightning. In June,,tb2T, a stranger gentleman, while residing at^airusmuir, came in contact with the eagle beforebe knew there was one about the placed and theonset was so fierce, that he was thrown down, and;his upper garments torn almost to shreds ; other¬wise he escaped with a few scratches ; and thoughhis nerves are neither weak nor his arms powerless,,he declared that he would rather face an angrymastiff than again put himself in the way of re-flceiving a practical specimen of the lex talionis.On another occasion, a very old woman, a depen¬dant of the family, was seized by the gown, sudden¬ly upset, and so rudely treated when lying on theground, that the eagle, it is thought, would have]made a meal of her face and arms, had not the ser¬vants rushed to the spot, and indignantly driventhe enemy away.Sailors' Omens.—Sailors, usually the boldestmen alive, are yet on their own element very su¬perstitious. At the present day they account itvery unlucky to lose a bucket or a mop. Tothrow a cat overboard or drown one at sea istire same. Children are deemed lucky to a ship.Whistling at sea is supposed to cause increase ofwind, and is therefore much disliked by seamen,though sometimes they themselves practise it whenthere is a dead calm.SCRAP BOOK.3THE NUPTIALS;A tale of the Olden Time.(For the Monthly Scrap Book.)Vile Traitor, yield tha* Lady up !/Vnd quick his s vord he drew ;The stranger turned in sudden rage,And at Sir Bertram flew.T!:e Hermit of Wahenrorth.“ Tell me not so: I deem it unwise for the daugh¬ter of Sir Christopher Walshingham—the pride ofEnglish Chivalry, to give her fair hand to a basechurl. Maiden, it is not beseeming our order that1 should hear more. It shall not be said thatthe Abbot of St, Cuthberts, debased the glory ofthe Holy Church by aiding the union of Englishknighthood with Scottish peasantry.”Thus spoke the Abbot of St. Cuthberts, in awarm tone, to the daughter of Sir ChristopherWalshingharn ; and as he turned with great agi¬tation into a recess of the church, she threw her¬self into an attitude of supplication, and exclaimed:—“ Trust me, my Lord Abbot, I debase not theglory of my ancestors by refusing the band of onen for whom I could never feel one throb of affection.Lord Marlowe brings no claim with him for theaffections of Gertrude Walshingham, but brutalforce and feudal tyranny. For, as sure as thatbright moon lightens up this fair earth, so sure arehis motives base and dishonourable. I beseechfthee, father,_ by all the Saints, by Himwhom you profess to worship, that you betray me10 THE MONTHLY7!Ot to that false-hearted fiend. You tell me thatyour convent is poor,—my richest jewels shall bethe reward. You remind me the power and influ¬ence of Marlowe is great;—the benedictions of a ipure heart, and the prayers of an humble maiden isliall seek to you that protection from heaven,which may be denied you on earth.”“ Daughter,” stiid the Abbot, “ the reward is rthe inheritance of Satan, the prayers of the givercan never avail, me.”“ Holy Father,” exclaimed Gertrude, “does itbecome the Church which I have been taught torevere as the pillar of our land, to lend its powerand influence in oppressing the helpless, and to sellits aid to the cause of tyranny? Let it not be said bof thee at least, my lord Abbot, that the prayers lof the innocent were ever less in thy sight, thanthe commands of the guilty.”“ Maiden,” answered the Monk, “ thy prayersmay not have wanted their effect. A convictionof the right has not led me to thy wishes, but thatthe Holy Church may Ire instrumental to thy peace .and happiness ; me t me an hour hereafter in the ;Chapel with thy betrothed.”Thus saying he quitted the church, and as thelast sound of his footsteps died away, Gertrudew alshingham starting as from a dream, exclaimed—“ I hanks my lord Abbot,” and retiring from the tbuilding tripped with a light' step down an avenue .overhung with lofty trees by a path which led to ithe abbey of St.-Cutbbei ts. At the foot of the Wavenue the figure of a man was seen to glide ac- ■C* C*SCRAP BOOK. 11■ eross the path and to approach her. Gertrude assoon as she discovered him, threw herselt in hisarms, and giving vent to a torrent of joy, she: exclaimed,—“ Reginald, our happiness is now completed.The good Abbot lias consented to our union.The individual to whom these words were ad-• dressed was a young man of commanding aspect.He was clad in a brown russet cloak, the coarse-K ness of which ill contrasted with the dignity of hi«i mien, and betrayed what indeed it seemed intend-I ed to diguise, that his rank was superior to hisi appearance..He clasped her to his breast, and both were fora moment overpowered with emotion. At length$ leaning upon his arm she conducted him i p the\ avenue, when they quickly came in sight of thei Monastery, whose grey walls were distinctly seen, by the reflection of the full moon. The hour ati which the Abbot would be prepared for their re-l ception arrived, and they proceeded to the chapel,»i the door of which was cautiously opened by the; porter. They entered, and a lighted torch gleam¬ing faintly from the altar with the moon beams re-ti fleeted through the arched windows, discovered to>1 them the Abbot kneeling in the attitude of prayer.I They remained in silence for a few moments,1 when the Abbot, rising, approached and ltd them| to the altar.He uttered a short prayer and commenced ai: service which had only the scene aud situation toi render it magnificent.12 THE MONTHLY“ Hold, villain !” cried a voice from the otherend of the chapel, which was succeeded by a figurerushing into the midst of the group, “ who daresclaim the hand of Gertrude VValshingham.”“ Now, by all the Saints,” said the bride-ilgroom, “ w’ho darest give such interruption ?'Wretch, thy life shall atone for thy audacity.Base menial !” said Lord Marlowe, for suchwas the unexpected visitor, “ dost thou think that iI will condescend to stain my sword with the bloodof peasantry.—Slaves ! seize the villain !”The command was followed by two ruffian?springing forward and attempting to seize the bride- .Igroom, who flinging aside his doubler, and cloak dis¬covered to their astonishment, a figure of giganticuframe, braced in complete armour. YY ith one throwof his arm he forced the first who attempted to layhold of him to totter to the ground, while the other,aware of his personal danger, retired behindthe altar.Now, by my knighthood,” said the bride*gro un, “ I credit my sword will have but a poor: iantagonist; draw thy weapon, my lord, thy cow¬ardice will have but too fair play. Sir ReginakMa .well was seldom found playing such gamewit such aloud crowing chicken.”Thus raying he attacked with great ferocity, iLord Marlowe, who. throwing himself into an atti-ttitle of defence, passed his weapon and made anineti ctual feint which partly overbalanced him, auditthe sword of Sir Reginald Maxwell was plungedinto his breast,- when he tell to the ground..SCRAP BOOK. 13A loud knocking- was now- heard at the doorof the chapel, which was succeeded by the entranceof Sir Christopher Walshingham, frantic with! rage and ladling- with unrestrained fury. SirI Christopher rushed into the midst of the chapel,! loudly demanding the villain who had robbed himot his daughter. The Abbot now interfered, audi raising his voice to the highest pitch, exclaimed—“ Peace, Sir Christopher, vengeance is fromi heaven. Che Holy Altar has been alreadyE stained with human blood, and woe be to him whoihas done the impious deed.“ I feel the truth of what you suggest my lordI Abbot,” said Sir Christopher,—“ But by heaven,i vengeance shall overtake the villain on this spot,! where the innocent has fallen by his hands.”“ Stay, and hearken to me, Sir Christopher,i said the faint voice of Marlowe, as he attempted toraise himself on his arm, hut which ptf'ort proved; ineffectual; “ I feel the flow of my heart’s bloodfast ebbing—the cold icy hand of death is on my)brow ; and before I appear before my judge I wille disburden my couscieuce of its weight. 1 havei wronged you all. 1 am already espoused to is Lady Marlowe is now in the castle of He could proceed ho fartlier,—his eyes becamer fixed and he expired. The announcement he madeucame like the electiic stroke upon the hearers,i VV alshingham leaned upon the body, and gladly< would he have extracted something more from theit dead. Sir Reginald Maxwell approached withiGertrude leaning on his arni.24 • THE MONTHLY“ Sir Christopher Walshingham,” said he, “ vwask thy forgiveness. ]3ut trust me, a Scottislknight now asks from thee something else thaubeauty or wealth. He asks the hand of tin!daughter in honourable wedlock.“ It is granted ! it is granted !"’ exclaimed »Si;Christopher; “and now, my lord Abbot, till:mistaken zeal in calling Lord Marlowe and myself to this place to stay the nuptials of my daugliter, has caused the death of the guilty. Th;s anctuary has been polluted with human blood, bua rich reward shall, we trust, wipe out the stainand we now ask thee to seal the nuptials ot th*lovers in a way befitting the daughter of Sir Chris'top her Walshinghame.” M.MANCHESTER.What's in a Name It appears that, whUi‘Manchester is now acknowledged to be among's*the greatest commercial towns in Britain, it a'sboasts not a few peculiarities worthy of remarkAnd by turning over Bigot’s new Directory, )will be found to be a seat of royalty, as it contains:at present, no less than 25 Kings, and although w>have no Queens, yet there are 30 Princes, -k Dukefj“3 Earls, 47 Lords, 21 Barons, and 36 KnightWe can also boast ot having 2 Bishops, 80 Deam21 Proctors, 11 Popes, 3 Priests, 3 Prophets, am5 Monks ; stdl it is lamentable to think that thenare only 2 Christians in the whole community. Iwe take places of worship, it would appear that thSCRAP BOOK. 15i^senters are gaining ground very rapidly, as theree only 2 Churches, while there ate i5 Chapelsid 17 Kirks, 1 he peculiarities of the seasonspe remarkable, for we have neither Springs normtumns, but to make up tor their loss, we have3 Summers, and 9 Winters; we have likewiserests, Snows, Rains, and Foggs. We haveknity ot Moons,'but no Suns ; still we have Rosesrid Lillies, Oakes and Ashes; and plenty ofiardeners, Forresters, and Farmers. Our sce-rery is also greatly diversified, having 2 Moun-i lins, 100 Hills, and 37 Dales ; and although welave neither Rivers or Lakes^ but only a few•rooks, yet we have Bridges and Barges, plenty' f Fishers, and a fair supply of Salmon. And theranger in Manchester will be surprised to find,erfectly at large, no fewer than 27 Fyons, and>ts of Nightingales, Swans, Peacocks, and Ducks.‘Vehave Mr Law, an attorney; Mr Jump, arope-maker; Wood, a joiner ; Corn, a baker;nd Chambers, a house builder. We are taught> 1 strong language tH& mutability of human affairs,)r we fino the great Isaac Newton, a painter, in' Jverpool Road » Addison, a joitrer, in Tasle-treet; Burns, a dyer, in Oldbarn-street ; and'Ihomas Lawrence, (no longer bearing the honouri f knighthood) earning his livelihood by weaving,I t No. 5, Quay-street. And is it not a lastingFame, that poor lorn my Moore should be mak-ng, not amorous ditties, but boots and shoes, inJldham Road. 1 he “ Pilot that Weather’d the>torm, ’ is still pursuing his vocation by mendingwindows in Oak-street; and his great opponent16 THE MONTHLYCharles F.;x, is an artist in Market-street. RehertPeel, is now a labourer in Salford; and Joey rII nine, an engraver in Shudehill. Horatio Nel¬son, now <l fights his battles o’er” at the King’s,fArms, Ancoats Lane ; and to crown all, Charlie iStewart is now a mill-wright near St. Peter’s. ,Although Manchester, in point of population, ,stands second in the British empire, containing up¬wards of 30,000 inhabitants, among which thereare no less than !t0 Savages, it is a melancholy re¬flection that there is on y one W iseman in the wholeparish Manchester Guardian.THE POISONED VALLEY.This valley is in the island of Java ; and is par-»ticularly remarkable for its power of destroyingin a very short space the life of man, or any ani- jmal exposed to its atmosphere. It is distant only 'three miles from Batur, in Java, and is known by *the name of Guevo Upas, or Poisoned Valley. .On the 4 th of July, Mr Loudon, with a party of 5friends, set out on a visit to it ; and, following apath which had been made for the purpose, theparty shortly reached it with a couple of dogs and Isome fowls, for the purpose of making experi- ■meats. \\ hen a few yards from the valley a strong 'nauseous and suffocating smell was experienced,but on approaching the margin this inconveniencewas no longer found. i he scene that now pre- ■sented itself is described as of the most appall¬ing nature. The valley is about half a mile incircumference, of an oval shape, about thirty or 'SCRAP BOOK. 17flirty-five feet in depth. The bottom of it appear-(1 to be flat, without any vegetation, and a fewirge stones scattered here and there. The atten-ion ot the party was immediately attracted to theumber of skeletons of human beings, tigers, boars,eer, and all sor of birds and wild animals, whichiy about in pi- sion. It was now proposed toliter it, and ea of the party having lit a cigar,mnaged to get vithin twenty feet of the bottom,rfhere a sicken: : j nauseous smell was experienced,without any difl ulty in breathing. A dog wasistened at the t d of a bamboo and thrust to theottom of the va ey, while some of the party, withleir watches in their hands, observed the effects.U the expiration of fourteen seconds the dog fellfl his legs, with- nt moving or looking round, andontinued alive oi ly eighteen minutes. The otherog now left the party and went to his companion;n reaching him fie was observed to stand quitemotionless, and at the end of ten seconds fell down;e never moved his limbs after, and lived onlyeven minutes. A fowl was now thrown in which•cd in a minute and a half, and another which wasTown after it, died in the space of a minute andhalf. A heavy shower of rain fell during theme that these experiments were going forward,'hich, from the interesting nature of the experi-icnts, was quite disregarded. On the oppositede of the valley to that which was visited, lay auman skeleton, the head resting on the right arm.he effects of the weather had bleached the boness white as ivory. Two hours were passed in this^lley of death, and the party had some difficulty18THE MONTHfeYia getting’ out of it, owing to the rain that had fallen. The human skeletons are supposed to lxthose of rebels, who have been pursued from themain road, and taken refuge in the valley withoutheir knowledge of the danger to which they wer<thus exposing themselves.—(The effects, as heredescribed, are identical with those at the Grottidel Cane, at Naples, and no doubt arise from th4same cause. These seem more strange in an opet!<valley ; but the mephitic air at the Grotto is s]heavy, that you may stand upright without incon;>venience, as it rises but a few inches above thsurface.) Geographical Society'THE BURGHER GUARDS.At Hamburgh may he found one of the feremaining shadows of this once formidable fore*still surviving only amongst the free towns <Germany. Its organization is an exact copy *what it was in the olden time, and reminds tiforcibly of the pet iod when every city was of nccessity a fort, and every citizen a soldier. 11 11town is divided into regiments, and these again into companies, at the head of each of which there Ma commandant. The regiments and companiiiparcel it out, just as our more modern cities a;;divided into police districts ; and each regime;counts as its men the free citizens residing withits locality. Altogether unlike our coniine    .. ^militia force, in which by substitution any ballot*man may shift personal service upon a deputy,-thisguard consists solely of free citizens, and enrolSCRAP BOOK,»e wliole of them. No man can enjoy one of ther o;hts of burgher-ship, without acquiring burgagesalification, and the very first step towards theattainment of this, is enrolment amongst thea yards. As none but citizens are permitted toi pen an account with the Hamburgh bank, alli trnmeroial men trading with the city and keeps jg counting houses in it, are compelled toi iibmit to this odd ordeal ; and the first thing a' lefcantile stranger does on his arrival, is o notifyis residence to the commandant of his district,ind receive orders to be drilled. The corporal,•) return for one of old Turnpenny’s considera-iom, indulges his recruit by attending him at hisliouse or counting-house, ami enabling him to per-lifct himself in the accomplishment of a soldier in a) uiet and gentlemanly way. 1 he exercise, how-t ver, docs not end here, and the recruit speedilyI tub it is no joke to play at soldiers in Germany,i. hiring a great part of the year, the whole force is) died out for public training, and certainly a mostHd figure do its men make. Upon any one theiritrange dross would sit but queerly ; and it mayj o judged how the stiff middle blue trowsers, withalack stripe down the outer side seams, blue tight> icket, high nar row cap and towering feather, be-ti eem those worthy burghers,—the most of themf flowing, by a huge capacity of paunch, that wheth-r or not they know any thing of the art of takingi way life, they are tolerably well acquainted withie method of keeping it in. North Germany has• ever been famed for handsome men, and the low- »g-stricken traders of the Elbe, naturally incline20 THE MONTHLYthe vital principle to put on that particular farmof covering, which has the property of being1 near¬ly as broad as it is long-. Whether this has beendone for the sake of keeping itself more comforta¬ble, and of enjoying, as far as possible from all ex¬ternal disturbance, its morning glass of skidam,so regularly and faithfully transmitted to it by thecareful German, we take not upon us to determine;but certain it is the Hamburgh Burgher Guardconsider it no unwise provision, and their best“ maugre the graces”—to grow in diameter androtundity, as fast or still faster than in length.Great and ponderous men ! Admirable subjectsfor Cruickshanks! Exquisite matter for Knick¬erbocker’s historic pen ! When we saw you laston parade, slowly moving your immense bodiesin a vain mimic of activity, direspectful thoughtscame into our wild heads, and we almost laughedat the idea of such soldiers. Wiser feelingsstraight returned,—we remembered of WilkinHammock, we recognised you as his kins¬men,—we remembered, that your ungrateful fore¬fathers, marshalled in that same cumbrous and uu-gainly band, planted the first tree of Liberty in thesoil of modern Europe, informed Power that Godhad placed a limit to oppression and disorder, andmade property a sacred thing 1 Fife Herald.When it was observed by a grave critic that theMoon in the tragedy of Douglas did not move,one of the audience answered, that being made ofpaper it was stationary.SCRAP HOOK.21VARIETIES.Liberia—This new African Colony, es-blishedby the Pennsylvanian Colonization Societyj an Asylum for Emancipated Negro Slaves, isi tuated near the river Moutserado, upon land pur-!. msed by the Society from native African kings. It«insists of nearly 2000 souls, «// negroes formerly• aves, and all employed in manufactures, trade,tid commerce. No white settlers are allowed.Che only whites are the Society’s agent, and ai liysician who is his attendant. 1 he colony is in-dependant. Its Port is free to all nations, and’ 9 vessels, mostly English, arrived and sailed inie course of one month. This settlement is ai iceessful experiment to establish free nationsKpon their native soil. A Newspaper is publish-1, which is edited and printed by these negro set-•irs in their little flourishing colony of independ-ice, entitled, “Liberia Herald—‘Freedomy the brilliant gift of Heaven'—Monrovia,i .iberia (West Africa), 1830.' Antiquity of the Campbells.— An old womanL the name of Gordon, in the North of Scotland,as listening to the account in Scripture of Solo-i ion’s glory, which was read to her by a little fe-i tale grandchild. When the girl came to tell ofie thousand camels, which formed part of theewish sovereign’s live stock, “ Eh, lassie,” criedle old woman, “a thousand Campbells, say ye?’be Campbells (pronounced. Cammils) are aauld clan, sure eneuch; but look an ye dinna see»e Gordons too.”22 THE MONTHLYFumigating ’Mixture.—Two ounces of salt idried, two ditto 0$ nitre. Mix and put to themin a stoneware basin or plate, a half-ounce of wa-1ter, and the same quantity of good sulphuric acid,}.Remove all polished-metal articles from the ropm,1as the vapour would rust them, and close all doorstand windows. To procure more advantage, when theprocess appears to cease, place the basin on hot sand.Balancing Accounts.—At a time not verydistant, it was an established practice through¬out most of the Highlands for the smith to get themart’s head in return for keeping the axe in repairduring the year. About half a century ago, thethen minister of Blair-Athole, having killed hisimart, sent the head according to custom to the :smith, but being fond of a delicate bit himself, heisent it without the tongue. The smith received hisutribute without any remark, but in the course of asfew days the parson's axe having come to be re-japaired, he trimmed the head of it, and sent it backlwithout meddling with the cutting part. Theitminister on seeing this, waxed wroth, and set offbfor the smithy in a violent passion. “ What, iniithe name of wonder,” said his reverence, “ is thenreason that you only sorted the head of the axe ;.i|you must be very ungrateful for the present 1 sent layou ?” “ What, in the name of wonder,” said tho tsmith, “is the reason that you took the tongue.1from the mart’s head ?” “ O !” says the parson, ;turning as smooth as oil, “ you must know, smith, ithat it is by the tongue I earn my bread.” “ I did iwot know before,” says vulcan, drily, “ that it was.ty a nowt’s tongue”1SCRAP BOOK. 23Ancient English Dandies.—Varied and ri¬diculous modes of dress were much in vogue.W hat could exhibit a more fantastical appearancethan the English beau of the 14th century. liewore long pointed shoes, fastened to his, knees bygold or silver chains ; a stocking of one colour onone leg, and of another colour on the other ; shortbreeches, which scarcely reached to the middle ofthe thighs ; a coat, one half white, the other halfblue or other colour ; a long beard ; a silk hood,buttoned under his chin, embroidered with grotesquefigures of animals, and ornamented with gold andprecious stones.Drunkenness expels reason—drowns the me¬mory—defaces beauty— diminishes strength—in¬flames the blood—causes internal, external, and in¬curable wounds—is a witch to the senses—a devilto the soul—a thief to the purse—the beggar’scompanion—a wife’s woe and children’s sorrow—makes a'Strong man weak, and a wise man a fool.He is worse than a beast, and a self-murderer, whodrinks to others good health, and robs himself ofhis own. %Leap Yi.ar.—Albeit it is nowe become aparte of the Common Lawe in regarde to tliesocial relations of life, thate as often as everyVessextile year dothe return, the Ladyes havethe sole privilege, during the time it continuethe,of making love unto the men, which they maydo either by wordes or lookes, as unto them it-seemeth proper j and moreover, no man will beentitled to the benefitte of clergy, who dothe refuseto accept offers of a Ladye, or who doth in anywisetreat her proposal withe slight or contumely [”I»4 THE MONTHLYGARDEN WORK IN MARCH.Makk small hot-beds for raising cucumbers and meloiplants. Plant some early potatoes on a warm shelterevflsituation, covering them in frosty'evenings with litter oilpease straw. About the middle, sow brocoli, cabbage;savoys, asparagus, and onions; also cauliflower, leek:carrots, turnips, &c. and pease and beans every fortniglr!for a succession. Plant out cabbages and savoys, art. ichokes and asparagus. Sow all kinds,’of hardy an dueflower seeds in the open ground, and the tender kinds i : -a moderate hot-bed in pots. Finish planting fruit am.;forest trees. Plant gooseberries, currants, strawberriesand raspberries. Transplant all kinds of sweet herbs:also perennial fibrous.rooted and herbaceous plants, amevergreens. Make box edgings.PROVERBS ON THE WEATHER,If red the sun begins his raceExpect that rain will fall apace.The evening red, the morning gray.Are certain signs of a fair day.If woolly fleeces spread the heavenly wav.No rain, be sure, disturbs the summer’s day. iIn the waning of the moon,A cloudy morn—fair afternoon.When clouds appear like rocks and towers.The earth’s refresh’d by frequent showers.March, 1st. ho. m.Day breaks .... 4 43Sun rises, .... 6 35 sets, 5 25Twilight ends, . . 7 17March, 31st. ho. #Day breaks, .... 3 3:Sun rises, 5 3: sets, ..... d ‘2jTwilight ends, . . 0 2!