Hiftoricai Tragedy,' Young BiiAXEMAN’Sc; HOSTOB. THEPERJURED MAID,JUSTLY REWARDED.T H EINTRODUCTION,e find that: foiemn vows and promifes•c of very great weight, and ilri<5tly bin-ling, by the fevered: notice God hathken of thole that have violated any of.em, in j>unifiling, the difhononr «onelio nanle, by various- judgements; andkat people may be more care fa l for theiiture, not to make any. vows and pro-ifes they to not inten i to keep, welall inftandy ihew you one example ofod’s anger in this kind, which all En-lantl has heard with altonifnmcnt. there-)re.Be cautious of the wordsAnd let them all be truth ;Your oath’s and protnifes ne’er ’>reak.Ih old age or in youth.THEH I S T O R YOFYOUNG BE ATMAN.CHAP. r.Gf Young Beatman, acc:i!ently erpying fair Ifabelka rich Farmer’s Daughter. And of his hilling ulove with her,James Beatean, ion of a gentlemanin Nottingham-fhire, a perfon well edu¬cated ; but by his father’s too great IPberality, poft&d of no great .fortune;riding one day through Clifton, a fewmiles from Nottingham, he happened tlcaft his eyes on a comely maid liandinfat the door of a finer feemly houfe, wit1thofe innocent and comely features 1jvas on a fudden To taken that he conic!ot Lut make a full flop to gaze a: her.The maid no fooner perceived his eyesxrd on her, that coulering her cheeks •lith a rofy blulh, (lie modeftly retired,p lels furprifed with his perfonage thanlas with her beauty. However this be-| g the hrft time they had feen each o-er he had not the courage to make anyvances, pofled to town about ht-|m mil s bevond that, but in a man-I r without a heart, for he left that withs fair miftrels./AllAll the way he rode, his thought*were ftrangely confuted, fo that he la¬boured to compote them, but in vain.He found now, though he had former¬ly made a jeft of love, and laughed ahis companions for declaring their pa£hons ; that he was taken in who had fcoften perfwaded others of their folly ; bufnow he found that the more he flruggledthe more he v es entangled. The bufiilnels he went on was not minded,, y et hi (cunningly concealed the caute from them ,but finding the contrigion had he zed hi;-',mind more than his body, they conclu¬ded it was from the decay of his fortune jand that he might not be dejedbed, theyprpfeied their affiftance in any thing hewould command them. While thefi .things palled he was urgent to returnhome, and did fo enquiring by the way pwho this fair maid w g and. the condi-i1tioh of her parents ; ’he found that fhewas the daughter-of a covet nous rich oldmiter, who had refuted teveral very con#fiderable matches, in hopes of advance 'ing lier by her beauty and fo faving hi 1numb'rkte lag,’of treafure. * hnt!! \ J JAnd upon ttis account he keeps a flrrcthand over her, ta prevent her being fto-Fen away. This ft ruck him almoft deadnth the horror ef defpair, yet fome-thing horefolved to do, but what at pre-fent he could not frame in his heart. AndTo home he went to conlider how to ma-age t'nis love afFdf, that at firfl henight not by an over talh addrefs dafh.11 his future hopes of happinefs to-pieces|n the contriving of which we Ihall leave'am for a time,, to coniider the coaditi-ue left. Ifabel in.CHAP. II.fabelli falls fick for Bcatcman, and is given overs k*coines in tke habit of a Phyfician, and difeovers him*ieit to her, by. which fhe recovers, to the great joy^for her Parents.P* his beauteous maid who though of-:n courted, and flood proof agamft the ’ghs tears and entreaties of many youngandfome batchelors. Found now (hs.ppd in need of pity herfelf. Peate-utl's ideas were fixed in her mind, thatkeepingJTeepTn^or^kTng Ihe tancied hun a I- Iways in her fight. So made private en¬quiries, by the defeription fhe gave, butcould not inform her in that refpedl.fome guefixng this, and fome that. Sothat for blowing the hidden fire, fhegrew regardlefs of the domeftick affairsof which her fathe# made her overfeer ;then her appetite failed her, and afterthis fhe fell into a ficknefs, which caufieda great heavinefs throughout the family.Phyficians were fent for to advife with,but their fkill proved in vain ; for ac¬cording lo the old proverb,Where Love is the cafe.The Dodtors an Afs.So that her father and mother, fearingto lofe their daugter, whom they fomuch doated on, were at their wits endiheddingmany tears.While they were in this plight, andthe fighing maid concealed the inwardflame which confumed her heart, one inthe habit of a phyfician, mounted upon.*a flately horfe, came riding up to theygate and defired to fpeak with Mr Gif-;1 II ford, for fuch was her fither^s name-iThe old man quickly came to him, wiihia heavy countenance, demanding hisibufineis. Truly fir fail he, 1 came outof compafiion to your family ; fur beinga-tau Inn in this town, I heard your (lau¬ghter who is your darling,. was ficktwhofe death would fend you to the grave,as diver:, phyficians have ufrd their Ikill,but all in vain ; If you will accept of myi advice and (lie be willing to cake what Lfliall diced:, l doubt not but by the blef-fing of God, upon my many years fiudyin phyfick, and travels in divers coun¬tries, fo to order all things as to reco-^| ver her health to its former vigour andfprightlinefs.The old man upon this unexpededvifit of a Piranger, concluded it fome an¬gel fent to him by providence, he couldhardly refrain from falling on hi.s knee;but after fome recovery fiom this tran-fport he invited him in a friendly man¬ner, and as this new dodor had order¬ed, they all left the room. The love-fick niaid no' fooner fix d her eyes onhim*him, but fiirbnew him, and .quite fain-*. ,jted awa-y. But he revived her with cor-|:!dials that'he : had brought. So that re-jcovering her fenfts, her blufhes overcame^ ‘her palenefsj and llrangely 'altered hef|!whole countenance.To be briaf, he having before guefled,nfid now being allured of the cavife ofher diflemper, told her the end of hiscorning in that difgutfe, defiring' lier tqchear up, and pouring out his love ex-prefhens mixed with tears, to fee her in,tuch "a low . condition, that at lafl they.nderflanding each otliers minds fo wellut he having Vifiied her fom'or fiveimd 6f(Urid her* tm'''", LUMHIVc to reftore decayed nature, and at this herj father was fb overjoyed, that he offeredt him a handful of gold, vvhidi he refu;f-: ed, and fo they-parted, to the -mutual fa-tisfadion of all parties, eipeeialiy the-;|young couple.C H A P. Ilf.He’berng invited tb her'Father’s Hwifc, 'ratks1 abroadwith her, and diicovers his Palfion : of ids iShcoWr*ftge:nent, and the great pi piped '.hero Was of a hap-Lpy Marriage.' tvJ oung B fat man having thus as heimagined, made a thorough' flop to¬wards his happinefs, went home filled* with j >y, but delayed hot long to revifitI his patient in the fame habit- taking anj; opportunity after dinner to walk withher in the garden, and after two or threeturns fitting in a fhady bower, they be¬gan to talk ot love, devouring each otherit were with thcin eyes, with all themodefty love could delire; and afterfeme time thus fpent,. he fpoke in thefollowing manner: Ah ! lovely Ifibclla,howhow b'lefled am 1 r > get an optv;rturi'ty ^to tel! you ho’.v miic i ! love yo i. You!are the only jewel in the worli l prize,and could I; hur poflels yon, I fhouldt'nin.k myleli the happieft of all mankind,•At this turning l\er eves, (lie faid, that]fmee he had prehrved her life Hie could)no: do lefs than recompenfe lum in feme I-xnanner ; for though divers courted her,ihe was engaged to none.On this encouragement he prefifed her|farther, and vowed eternal love, and the -by her glances gave confenr, but toilhim a? it was the fh ft time of his addref-•fes, he muft grant her room to c;«ifu!ther parents, and if he could gain th ercon lent, he might be alfired of hers. |This lb oveijoyed Beateman, as he;immediately would-'have gone to her pa*;;rents, and a Iked that jewel from them! Ifwhofe precious life they con’d not butlpr.conclude he npa to heaven had prelerv- ;ed and continurd to them. But Ihe op-j apoled Ikying*ihe would prepare the wayj| ihe: fell, ho f iling fion) their feats the)l |went into ihehoufr, where a gi'anddinJinol^ r-rrr-  11 T5or was provided, and they fat over a-! j gain ft each-other at the table, feeding onij-love with their eyes, with greater oon-i j -tentment than on the dainties. Sop perI being ended, and night coming on Btate-li tnan took his leave, when at parting thefl farmer invitad him to an entertainment<ii which was to be at his hon e on the thirdday following; which lie accepted of■moll: humbly, and for that time they: |‘parted.C H A P. IV.j|Hc comes in Ivs proper Drefs, and aflcs her fathers con-II , fent; but is refii'ed for want of rn E.la.f , and oft | his wounding one German his rivial.I Shall not trouble you wirh j he im¬patience of the twp lovers during t ie in-Iterval, but tell you this t\aTt was madei principally to entertain a ger.de i a iwhofe grandfather dying, had left hima vart eftate, and his aflecfioris vaas vi ryI lirongly fixed on this virgin; bin ihe 'idid not regard Ins addrdles. However,ilicr parens being plea fed with thetliouglits of a rich matchter, liftened to it, by pcrfuafrons and be-leechings deSred to be exc-ufed, proteft-ing her like to a fiugle life,,and entreat¬ing him he would not compel her to anything againft her will.The day being come,'the guefts metand young Beateman refolved to pulh otihis fait in a proper garb.—The entertain¬ment was very iplendid, the fea,^earth-and air, contributing their flores^to fur-nidi the table vmh all manner of dam-1ties, nor was any mu he- wanting ; butwhat dafhed all their merriment wa-sthe fair'lfabeila'iat opp >dte to Beateman.|The ' other lover, -whofe name. wa^JGerman underflan J ing the language oftheir eyes, by their frequent gazings, the.coming and going bluihes of his millrefs’-sjface, his fancy hit upon the truth, viz.?They were molVdeeply in love with eachother.—So that his counter.anGe changed-and throwing by what was before him,very abruptly-retired from the table or-deting his fer vants-toget ready his hor-|des, that.he might-be gone.HePHer parents were ftarded ?.t this and(not knowing what could be the o'ccafion *)f fo fuddeh an alteration in a perfonwho had profeffed fuch love to their[laughter, ioUowed him into a private•opm, to be informed of the reafon of >i iis difeontent, and foon found the occa¬non of it ; • whereupon calling his dau¬ghter aiide, he t ;ld her what Germaafiad.fuggefied. To which' The mode Illy!eplied, feeing, the gentleman had Caveder life, when others had failed, flicbought, flie could do no kfs in requitalnan to give him her love, and was re-• olved if ever ihe married to be his wife,"his iUrtied the oW man more and tiioi'e.nd Be..teinan mUlrthling what i'.ad hap-ened, fame in the Interna, and -beingemanded by her,father, if lie male love> his daughter, bcldly owned it: deb¬ug Ivis eonfent to have her in marriage.Liowfaid the old man, you that are a'rangc-r, make love to my daughter, anditiioiit my knowledge, you may be aggar for ought I know. I intend to,glvspray what eftate have you.Truly faid Deateman l am rich in lovto her, but cannot bo ift of a va'b edate,I was born a gentleman, but without anjfortune, for tny parents were unfoftunate and died poor; yet 1 hope providentwill make me happy, that by your confent 1 may marry this fair creature youdaughter.fa ©k*®!iMk wmfi # isiJUIll■ Upon this he was going to take her b’ ' 1 1 ' 1 :‘l a kifathe hand, and feal his love with abut h r old dad hepped m an angrlmanner, crying, Pho, pho, pray danjvdf; A gentleman without an edate, |: ke a pudding without fat, you havefideed done my daughter a k'mdnefs in! jecovering her health, but I’ll never con.“:nt Ihe ihall be your wifei This enraged Beateman, who upbraid-d the old man. Mean time in rufhes; ierman with his drawn {word, andinade a pafs at him, but he put it afide:nd wounded him in the bread:, fo thatL.e fell as dead to the ground, whereuponeateman made his efcape, to cordder; hat was beft to be done.:CHAP,CHAP. V.Jfc is baniftied her father’s houfe; he fends her a. letter|and (he meets him in difguife In aGrove, where they feal their Vobreaking a. piece of gold.a neighbour'lli and Loves, Iair Isabella, upon* this accidenibeing left in tears, as well as the reft oithe family in fear and confufion, fur-geons were fent for, who on fearchin,the wound gave hopes of their patient*!recovery Yet Beateinan fearing thiworft, abfented from his dwelling, andgot a r avelling pedlar for a great reward’,to deliver a letter unto his Love, whiciihe did, under colour of coming to he?fathers houfe, and proffering his wares|Which was to entreat her, if ftie had a-ny pity, for the fofferings of an imfort.u-1nate man not only to forgive what hehad done in his own defence, but mce8him in a Neighbouring grove.She no fooner read it. but refolved toanfwcr his dehre-s, lo efcaji.d in dif^.of a Milk-maid. When they, met, itiii vaig to ucicribe the raptures whiclsalTed. She gave Idm an accoun^wurhat happened, .and how German wasike to recover. B.ut. they dwelt not longapoh this theme, before they began toidcodrfe of old love, renewing their^ov.'s of eternal condancy, fo that no-I hing but death fhould be able to divideiihem ; and to bind it he broke a piece ofi^olcl, giving her one half, and refervingt be other for himfelf, and then with/ears and kifles they parted. She at thdl areweM which proved a fad one, beggedaim to travel a few weeks, and give heri notice where he was, and (he would in~■ orm him of the recovery, or danger ofibis rivil: To which he agreed with muchAearfulnefs.1 C H & P. VI.-pon i^er return ilie is difuovcred, and confined to herroom ; German courts her with, tears, prefents, anda proffer o£ a large eftate; at I a ft t>y tic fire of herfj Parents, fhe conieuts, renounces Iter vows, fendsi,j pack the piece of gold and’marries German ; upojjs-hich poor Beafeman hangs himfelf.r1 IIe Beauteous virgin, during her ab-nCe, having been mUIbd, and muchenquiredenqmretwtter^)^^afor^o^K^unrc^l|fonablenefs rf the time, was lafpecledjof what hnd happened, and though ihtmodeflly denied it fne was confined t(|her room, and an old nurfe fet over her:fo that all Beateman's letters were tiered,and Ihe could not anfvver them. In thamean tinie German was recoveredN and*admitted to court her whofe adrefTes (hefor a long time refilled,; but at laft Othe itconllancy of woman! notwith-rdafiding her vows to be Beateman's aliveor dead, and many proteftations, the;mifers gold and the perfuafions and<!threats of her parents, together with ma-^ily rich prefents, prevailing on her totchange her mind, and by their infligaHtion Ihe wrote a letter to Beateman, who!who was hunting many miles off, whenupon reading it his fportwas cialhed, and'a kind of chill ft ruck to his heart. How¬ever, although her hand, he flatteredhimfeif in b dieveing fhe was rompclledj „to do it. Fm. a . /rr learning tlie word],he hailed the next nmining to CliftonJ (and hearing r ; L> ::s ring, his-heart! ifiifgave him, but he had not the cour¬ge to enquire into the caufe,That morning lie was informed fheIras married to his rival. Then in a ragee began to cuiTe his ilars, and.all wo-i ica kind. Often he refolved to fall on!iis fword, but a defire of revenge inter-fofed, not to fall.alone, but to facrificelie bridegroom, and then himfelf.I After fome milder refolu'tiohs came in-f) h’S mind, that in this he (hould givejreat caufe grief to his miftrefs. Yet to•t her know his rcfentmehr, he fent•lack the half piece of gold in a letter.hich found her at dinner, and made■ier be taken lick from the table. How-iver, Ihs was comforted with cordials,dmd the joy of a bridal night, riding inij coach, and a great eftate, pafIVd it o-ler, and fh to bed they went.| Beateman receiving no anfwcr, tookI as a farther flight, and fb entering up-jin a very defperate refolutin, he flolemto the houlc privately, as being ac-|uainted with the way, and hiding him-llf m a clolet by the bridal chamber, hehangedhanged himfelf before the door, wherhe was found co their great horror and amazement, on opening the door nesmorning with the following lines .pinneton his bread.Falfe woman of the Vow? and Oaths haue dreadFor thou art mine by them, alive or dead.CHAP. VII,Of Beateman’? hanging liimfeif, flie grows melan'cholyand after being delivered of a child is carried awaby a Spirit. ,^his not only difeompofed the mirt!of the wedding, but the enfuing nighrdreadful ihrieks were heard as if helhad broke loufe, by blazing light oftentlalhing in the face of the new marriedcouple, and followed with thele dreadful'wordsThou ait mine alive ordtad «this made them remove to the hufband’l''houfe which was at forne miles diftance t:but the very fame haunting, purfiied hei iand wherever {he. went ihe thought tin :fpirit of Beateman appeared to her. Th* Itcurtains was often drawn violently when:theliptmued ; until at laft, iLe provingjth child, he biddmg'hier prepare to go|th him as fodn as ihe was delivered.(which time being weary of her life:atchrftg out her arms (he cried, I amne by right, and I am ready to go a-ag with thee.Ncf replied he the innocent babe in thymb proteds thee : fo I cannot have:e till thou art delivered. 'Thus fhe continued in forrow and inr having many divines to pray with•, but it availed not. For the time ofi‘ delivery being come, which {lie dc-d might be prolonged, though inin, her mother and divers other wo-m watched with her, whom {he ear-[11 y defired to pray, and not by anyans to fall a deep. However, a fuddertiiwfinefs about mid-night, tn fpiie of. | they could do, overcame them, tillked by a dreadful cry, they found all. i candles out, and f eeling for the child-l woman, {he was miffing, the cafe-nt being burd in pietes, and a drongfmel!Zmell of fulphur left in the room. Tijtowns people affirmed they heard grecries and ihrieks, which filled the aiaccompanied with a great clap of thuider, and flafhes of lightening about thtime. However, Hie was never aftiheard, of though much fought for. •I