DISSERTATIONONAMILT WORSHIP;OR,A GUIDE, TOfJQMESTIC HAPPINESS.'STIRLING:Printed and Sold by C Rand*lbDISSERTATIONONFAMILY WORSHIP.Men of the world this do&rine nl digcft ;They imiie at piety, yet boaii; aloudGood will to man ; nor know they ftrive to ;What nature joins, and thus c.onfute therofelv* IYor II AM now about v riting to you on a futilPhiletus, that is little thought of in the wo |and confequently not much tegarded ; I mlpfamily worship ; a ferv^e fo reafc.nabl« h* |ever, J would have you both morning i aevening conflantly perform. For this p |pofe ftatedly let apart a few moments t.;will not interfere with your lawfql bufim iIhe time to be fpent in that devout excerclmull be left entirely to the didates of difeition. Fo lay down a rule for general pr;|tice, where the circumfiances and engawiments of individuals arefo various, is altojther impradicable. I he oracles of God leaThis mater wholly undetermined $ there b5ng no divine injunction for rl^e time id beipent in that fervice, though ;he praGice ofit is clearly revealed. It may be needful to>bferve, however, that cate ihould be takeno prevent any inconvenience arijing either./torn the length or Ihcrtnefs of time let apartor the peiformance of fo reafonable a fer-ice.The hour in* which, this dufy fnould bderformed^ is not particularly enjoined. Iimuld fuggeft, liowever, that, in the even-:xg, it ought, if poflible, to be done beforeupper: becaufe the animal frau e is then ItfsiRCumbeied, not fo liable to drowfmefs, andlore at liberty to exert itfelf with vigour,i.vc'-y man niuft be fenfible that even necef-py food, when nrtl taken, has a natural ten.nency to blunt the opeiations of the mind inkdigious duties ; and if fame perfons be notP tufoeptible of inconvenience as ethers, yetofithink its irlluence r.iud: be more cr lefs er-terienced by all; if, therefore, one momentre mere favourable to devotion than another,| ought to be embraced 5 for as one exprefies4/it, to ‘ chook the dulleft and deadeft timesx? hen fleep is ready to clofe our eyes an«renders us unable to ferve ourfelves, is t«choofe a moment not adapted to the duty—Wd muft feel a languor that will make uppray as if fearful that God fliould accept us|land as coldly as if unwilling he fhould heaus, and take away that lull by which we ar«governed, and againfl which conscience urgus to pray.*fn fctipture honourable mention is madof family worlhip in commendation of faithful Abraham : l know, faith the Lord, thahe will command his children, and h'houfehold alter him and they (hall keep thWay of the Lord. In this pra&ice. alfo iiveithe venerable Jofhua: after a review of thmany deliverances God had wrought, he fayto the children of Ifrael, If it feem evil untyou to ferve the Lord, choofe ye this dawhom ye will ferve ; but as for me and mlrhoufe we will ff rve the Lord. After -his esample copied holy David: having finilhed thVarious fervices oi the day : in which he putlicktl5;:kly acknowledged and teilided the inter-hfition of divine gcodnefs, he retired fromi eWorld, and returned to blefs his hoafe-;>!d And in order to demonltrate his loveprayer, he cries in another place. Sevenmes a day do I praife thee becaufe of thyghteous judgements. Job alfo, who isiiftly admired and commended for his pa-I ence, rofe early in the morning to offer m:s family burnt offerings according to thej umbtr of his children. This, it is faid> heid continually- Nor muft we forget thei ious example of the prophet Dame’, w icfeifcriptions of praife breathe the fincefe andvirvent language of exalted piety I he de-j out Cornelius hkewi'.e furnilhes us with an|example of family worlhip, and alfo with a(Idifplay of the fuccels with which it was at-i iended : the petitions that fprang from hissieart, afcended as a memorial before God,v&fQough imperfeft, were accepted.Now, Philetus, if illuftrious examplespad the fame force in religion as in matters>f little movement, how ready we (hould beto6to tread in the fteps of thefe great and picmen ; but alas! here we nuift lament |fee their imperfeftions imitatad, not th<|virtues. I hope, horvever, it is otherwifwith you : I trull you are determinedworfhip the fame God, and after their e jample.It is probable y«u may meet with greatpofjtion and difcouragement in an underta!;ng that is fc> generally negle&ed ; but ‘ tlhim who is animated with a view of ©btaininlapprobation from the fovereign of the univerfe. no difHcuity fhould ieem infurmounifable.’ It is true tnat the wrorld in whichiacwr live, feem to think ramily worfhip tteffecl of fuperflition rather than the genuiroffspring ef religion : but fuch reflectionwill have no weight where reafon is permit!ted to prefide.The reafonablenefs of family worfhip wiappear very obvious from a conflderation cjour uriceaiing obligations to God, as oimaker, preferver, and benefaCtor, It isr . hinlmm7 ■him we live, and move, and have our being ;to him we ere indebted for every mercy weenjoy $ from him we receive all that we nave ;and it is ©wing to his goodnefs that we arewhat we are If bleffed with health, withftrength, or with riches, they are his gifts:; of which he may juftly deprive us at plea-fure, and with equal propriety fet us upon,jlthe dunghill with the beggar. Thefe cer-4 tainly are truths that muft at once {trike themind of every confiderate man and which: the moft abandoned and profane cannot behardy enough, when ferious to deny How,4 then, ought every teftimony of God’s good-nets to excite our love, our gratitude, andour praife! rhefmalleft temporal advantage; is a bleffing to which we have no claim : ifwe have food and raiment they are infinitelyt more than we deferve, for in many thingsi we offend all. <Why, Philetus, are we commanded to; pray. Give us this day our daily bread, if notI to teach us among other things, our dailydependence of God as the difpenfer of alloursiear temporal bleflings ? Our various wantjreturn with the morning; and to whomihoul i v/e look but to him who is able tc ifuppiy then* ? We need his diredl-n throughthe perplexities and difficulties of every day rand without his gracious interpofition arciupport, wecancfftft nothing to any va'u- jab.’e purpofe. In the evening we feek reft invain un et's he give (lumber to the eyedids.and deep to the eyes : now as thele are wants |jcommon to every family and what all itsmembers conftamly experience, they oughcertainly to unite in luppiicating the lame divine pjocdntfs, and alfo in returning thanksibr the mercies of which they have all jointlybeen partakers. Surely each can fay withthe Piaimilt, It is good to give thanks umcthe Lord, and to fing praifes unto thy nameO molt high : to (hew forth thy loving kindnefs in the morning^ and thv faith!ulnefsevery night ; for thou, Lord, only makeft m«dwell m faiety.Family wcrfli’pis. indeed, fo reafonable tritkil, and calculated to aniwer iueh \a uabkL purpofes9puipofei, that nomaa can ^ive a fatisiaclor^anfwer for negkding it C^rtWiily we cuightitaiedly to retire, aril make iome ackoo .v-.ledge.nents for our daily mercies- • Some ful-pemion of common affairs, ibdie prate c>ri temporal pain and pleafure, is furely necetVfary to him who del berates for eiernity whoo|i is forming the only plan in which inifcar-riage cannot be repaired, and examining the' only queition in which a miitake cannot beredified.*Were we to receive but the fmallefl token1 ofrefped at the hand of fome kind earthly'.i friend, wefhould be ready to make every ac*knowledgement in our power; we fhouldfeel fome pain in recollediug but one oppor¬tunity where we might have ihewn our tnaok-r. fulnefs, but which was then negleded or for-gotten. Now if we pretend to be fenfiblei; ©four obligatums to that friend who flicketh.h.clofer than a brother, who giveth all tilings!■ liberally without upbraiding, by wlut fhalt>’ W'e demonifrate the linearity of tilde ’preten-|. lions, if not by yielding that obedience vveacknowledgec10acknowledge to be due, and which ^the pr«fent rtate of eur exigence renders both ouprivilege and duty.Tf then, Phiietus, the negleft of family |lwot (flip cannot be vindicated in the openl] l£profanev how can it be excufed or counte »lnanced in the profeffed chriftian, who mufl :iexperience a double tie for the performancesof this relative and focial duty. Befides theprovidential favours of which all men are un* adefeTvedly partakers, he receives a meafureof thofe/pirirual fupplits that are infinitely fu«peiior, which admit of no comparifon with,the fubiimeft earthly good : he fliould there¬fore certainly be exemplary in piety; heihculd think it his meat and drink to do thewill of his heavenly father ; and tfpeciallywhen he ccnfiders that his feperating himfelffrom the corrupt converfation, amufements,and company of the world, befpeaks in hima love of n. ore lading and refyied pleafures.By his own voluntary feclufion, he tacitlycondemns the frnful cuftoms and manners ofthe wicked ; he fets himfe'f up as a reprover■ ' ^ ' ofIIf their ways and as a pattern for tham fonitate : but if he live in the neglett of fa*lily worship the omiflion of winch is repre-enfible in them, where is the propriety ofis conduct, and how are we to ‘ditlingui(hetween the lincere chriflian and the merely(ominal profeffor ? It is poilible they may bequaliy upright in their dealings among men,aough from different motives ; but as thefelotives are hidden from us, we mull judgef their religion, integrity, and morals, byleir deportment in the world, the familyi n d the church, to which they both refpec;Vely belong.I There are perfoils who never felt the con¬taining power of divine love, that are ftri&Iytonelt in their dealings, exemplary in theirjimilies, and moral in their conduft. Such.i ferhaps were fome of the Ptiaritees mentioned|| fenprure, and fuch once was the perfecut-' g Saul. 11 tnen it be pofiole for a man,.ibder the influence of moral principles, todopear unbiameabfe in the management of; is civil, his relative, and ibcial duties, it isabfoiutdy1%ab/bluteJy necrffary for the credit of religithat one undf r the influence of grace fliO'be at leaft fqi-’ally exemplary in every parthis concuft ; but if he live in the fteglefl]!family weifhlp it is not eafy to conceive h|this can peflib y be done. It is true he n{|be regular ard devout in the performancefecrer. prayer in the elefet, and may eftejjit his privilege and his duty : but attendacn the cicfct is only a part, and perhapjfmali part of the chridian^s duty, uho ishorteci to let his light fo fhine before m|that they may fee his good works, and glor k father who is in heaven. If heneglan ily prayer, hew is he obedient to the w©f Gcc ? and how can he be pronounfcbmdefs, or without rebuke, hi the n*of a crooked and petverfe generation ?There are alfo men without the advanta tici gtace. who are regular in performing nCuries of the clofet, as well as thofe ofiaroily : but then they ad under the ml,fiiCfc cl motivts widely oifFcrent fromhr.ctie chiiflian, and tneir prayers, as th*3have refpeft to God, meet with different fuc-:efs j but as they refpedl a man’s religiousand moral chara&er in the world, they arehe fame in both. The world is not a pre¬fer juege either of a man’s (incerity or fpl*rituality in any part of divine worihip, nor;an it eafily difeeru the fprings of adion ;this muff be left to the decilion of him whofearcheth the reins, and trietii the hearts ofline children of men; but the world is compe-Mnt to judge of his outward deportment, &ns that is. will either cenfure or approve. If,therefore a man from natural principles, un-! ler a divine r<dtnur.t, be exemplary in everyi part of his conduit, and the man of grace faila that of family worfhip, the former, let.aim adf from what principles he may, doesmore credit to religion, lives a brighter cha-■ader in the world, and is a better member ofSociety.Indeed Philetus, it is fomething ftrangehat men who have experienced the power otiivme grace, fhould need to be exhorted toperform fb real'onable a fervice. That thereare4*4are profeffiag chriftians of this chara&tr,a truth too oovious to be difputed : as to t!fmcerity of their religious pretentions, itcettaia we may be deceived ; and howevcharitable we are in thinking favourablytheir future welfare, we Ihould be careful nto extend our charity fo far as either to etenuate or countenance their faults. Tiomiffion of any part of known duty is meaffarediy an aggravation of guilt; and if it tpoffible for a fmcere chrillian to live hattually^in fuch a practice, his confcience mube fait afleep, and he may reft allured thwhen it is once roufed, it will feverely fcourfhim for his crime.Negledt of any fpiritual duty common,arifes from a declenfion of religion in tifoul. vVere we to hve more under the fefible er joyment of divine love, we fh uld 1more active, vigorous and fteady in the pefortnance' of every divine precept. The wajof God would not then appear irkfomegrievous, but at. they truly are, ways of pilantnefs and paths of peace. When lovetuaites the foul, the wheels of obedience moveh celerity ; but when it is wanting, everyiy if not negte&ed, will be in.iifferentlyformed. If Chriftians, therefore be notitual in their converiation, unreferved inir obedience to the commands of God, &ve in the performance of every duty, itvident that their fouis are barren, it theirfefiion, however fpecious, dwindled intoI'ja. Such men, Philetes, are no oma-itbut a difcredit to religion ;* and if favedift, it will be, as the apoftie expreifes it,re. Circumfpedion was perhaps never■ e neceffary than in the prefent age, in or-tb guard agsiuli an evil fo prevalent and; mon in the chaltian world, it is certainthe nioft diligent attendance on the du-*of religion ccn neither merit nor com-11 any bkffing ; but it is equally certainralmoft every fpirituil, and even temporale's ■ y is communicated not by the neglect,h the ufe of means, io uie tnefe means, i duty, the work, and privilege cf man jilavey a blefliug, the work and preroga-!^f God.Leti(16Let me therefore add to the confiieratof temporal bleuings, the honour of reliand your reputation in the chriUian life,fpiritual mercies you have perfonaliy erienced Fhe confi eratioa of thefe thi|mutt certainly produce the happielt cffiand create a foiid pitafure in your own bthat exceeds defc' iption. The joy, Philethat ve feel upon a review of paft digoodnefs, is more than mortal: it' is ofame kind, though different in degree. |that which thofe iiappy fouls expeiiv/ho have exchangei a life of prayer, foileternal life of uninterrupted and uiicespraife J'In prayer, 'vhich is the breath of fpiilife, we fupplicute the throne of graceadere the Vrifdom, tliegoodnefs, and bel:cenceofour h eavenly Father. la this Iof privilege and duty weft d the fuinlljlof that 'p.opiifc, Thole who honourwill honour j and at the fame time wdand acknowledge it juft that they uiciherwife minded; mould be lightly effeeThe performance of family ivorfhip, Phr-is, may be a' tended with the happisfl ef-rs: your example will fpeak 1cm ih to allund you and recoriimend the religion .youfeis to toljow and efteem. If. in theirfe of divine Providence you flaould beTed with children, it is likely they maybenefited as well by this as any other afib■/our exemplary piety. Your fervmts alfoo will not be forgotten in your petitions,y be gainers by fuch a conduft. E^erylortatton intended to promote either theirfent ot their future weitare, may be givenh peculiar propriety and advantage in thefeous moments of retirement, l he folein-t of the occahon will add double force tory remark; wid moft likely engage theirntion. and perhaps leave an impreflion onn ind that neither the levity ot youth,’it corruption ot human nature, the allure,ms of the world, nor even time itfelf, canL'fely obliterate. But tire malter of a fa-iwy wtio negletTs this important fervice, cantie none cf thde advantages; nay it he aft;i fiftemly with his own praftice, he cannoteven5even ur^e thfim to perform any fpiritualwhatever : for he muft be fenfih’e ;hat adnitions however warm, fuirable, andfinp. lofe much of their force, if not recmended by example. For this reafon, £|gmaOer of a famry ‘ fhould confider hiras intruded, not onlv with his own con "but with that of others j and as account;not only for duties which he negle&s, 01.crimes that he commits, but for thatgence and irr-gularity w hich he may enjrage or inculcate * If, on the other hthey fee you daily devoted to God in pr|both on your own and in their behalf,muft think there is a reality in religjfomething more than the world geneimagine, or perhaps than they themflhave ever yet experienced The maniltion cf ycur concern for their immortalmay alfo induce them to examine thepriety of your remarks : may be inftrumin the converfion of their fouls, and c [1quently have a tendency to promotetheir prefent and their futpre happinefsif after every endeavour you fhouldI. 19. .. t ‘ \1’ith difapporntment, your kmd interpofitionill probably fecure you their efbe-n, which.iey will on every occafion demenftrate by aithful difeharpe r f thote feryices in vhichey may be refpe£live!y employed. By thefecans therefore you will preferve order, har-ony, and refpe& ; vow will moll likely ore*nt many of thofe difquitudes that ate fnb-rfive of all focial happinefs,, and which area common in domeftic life.Let your morning facrifice, therefore,tedly afeend as a fincere token of the gra-bde you feel for the mercies of another;ht; and your evening devotion as a re-4wed teftimony of the fenfe you have of)d’s kind protedion and goodnefs through; » viciffitudes of another day.Night ir ay be properly confidered as anblem of death—as a paure—a flop in the• tgrefs of life j and in thefe view's it is right,: are we enter its folemnities, to recognifetranfaclions of the day—to mark thofei ies that have been entirely-emitted orcarelefsly4-55>canperformed ; to recofiecl witk grtiru e the favours gracieufly bellowed ;admire the Divine patience with whichhave tr'fled, and to implore that proteclicand forgivenefs, without which we are iivitably undone.In the performance of this duty, you v;|experience a pleafure that will induce you|perfevere in the rnidft of furrounding oppr|tier ; and it is this pleafure Philetus, tiwrill ftrengthen and fupport you under matof the trials you mufi: expefl: to meet withcivil in domeftic, and religious life. It Ithis that will make the moil preffing di|icutties appear comparatively light; and if Pin competition with the many fpiritual bljings with which you are indulged, they \jdwindle into nothing. In a word, the tr|tjuihty of mind arifing from the pra£!fof this duty cannot be explained ; it wo|lbeggar the moll elaborate defeription.Before I conclude Philetus, I will trferibe for your perufal a few lines written£ lt prefent fubjeft by a learned and judiciousthor. 4 Let me exhort you. fays hel tocartful an<J confcientious in family go*rrimtnt andinflniftion. How inexcufables thofe parents and mailers, who fuffereir children aud fervants to perilh for lackknowledge ? What unfpeakable advan¬ces do vou enjoy, having all the force oftural afFeftion a* well as natural authori*to give your inftru&ions weight ? Howany h-ve remembered, with pious grati-ie through a whole life, the benefit they,ve received from family inftiuftion andample ? 1 know 1 fp:ak to many who arecountable to God for this mercy ;• how lhallu anfwer it then, if you do not give theme advantage to your own families ? Andiwlhall they anfwer to God think you,ho have bonifi ed the worfiiip of God fromie families in which they found it? Onel ould think the litdels walls and furniture ofnur chambers might be awakening monitors4 Therrj is the greateft mutual influenceiitweea lamily and perfonal religion^ Per-foaai*Tonal religion is the foundation of all fa®and relative duties. It would be fpeakinthe deaf to perfuade any to watch overfouls of others, who have no concerntheir own. But wherever there is aimpreffion ©f the importance of eternityourfelves, this will naturally and necefla |fet before us its importance with refped |all that are dear to us. On the other h;for the fame reafon, family religion isofthe bell and furefl evidences of theality and the flrength of perfonal JteligIt is fometimesobferved, that fame very pperions are extremely defe&ive in thiscular ; and take little care of the inftruand flill lefs cf the government of their cdren. If they are truly pious, it is a vgreat blemifh upon their piety. Howe’for my own part 1 confefs, I do very mfufped the fincerity of religion in thofe vare remarkably negligent in this particvlet them profefs as much as they will. 1 krthat pious perfons, from the weaknefs of tl©wn judgement, will be guilty cf greatprudence in the manner of family inflj23tion, and from an abfolute in capacity, maynot be able to prelerve their authority ; butI cannot eafily reconcile with true piety,the abfolute negled of either the one or theDther,I muft add, that I take family religion,: rnd the careful difcharge of relative duties,o be an excellent mean of the growth of re-igion in a man’s own foul. How can any>erfon bend his knees in prayer every day•d nth his family, but it tmift be a powerful re-i? taint upon him from the indulgence of*iy fm which is vifible to them ? Will fuch^r:!'per ion, think you; dare to indulge himfeif■;ii anger, or chooie to be feen by them, wheai ofp comes home fbggering with drunkennefs,ij; afit to perform any cuty or ready to fin Hillore by the manner of performance ? When, figure to myfelf a mailer of a famiiy, who•d come home lotted like a beaft, and half-pported to his houfe, rifing in the morn-;, I am not able to conceive how he canar the looks of thofe members of his familyto had been witneffes of his fhame. But,befide24befides being areftraint fromgrois crimes, Icannot help faytr.g that, Ipeakmg of therhinffs of God with the concern of a parentor the humanity of a mafter, muft give a fo-|lemnity of fpirit, and a fenfe oi their mo¬ment, even greater than before. A man!cannot fpeakto purpofe without feeling whatfays} and the new impreffion will cer-tainly leave behind it a lifting effect. Lef‘|me therefore earneftly recommend to you the|faithful difcharge and careful management o fJamilv duties, as you regard the glory of go«|the intereft of the church, the advantage o|your pofterity, and your own final accept|snce in the day of judgement/ II••I am,Your, See#FINIS,