AUTHENTIC NARRATIVEOF THE PROCEEDINGS OFHIS MAJESTY’S SQUADRON,UNDER THE COMMAND OFREAR-ADMIRALSIR HORATIO NELSON,FROM ITS SAILING FROM GIBRALTARTO THE CONCLUSION OF THE GLORIOUSBATTLE OF THE NILE;Drawn up from the Minutes of an Officer ofRank in the Squadron.PR1NTE6 FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.AOF SCOTLAND ^0,NBUROVA^ADDRESSHE glorious Viilory achieved by Rear-Admiral SirHORATIO NELSON, off the Mouth of the Nile, onthe 1ft and 2d of Auguit laft, has received, and muff evercontinue to receive, the warmed tribute of admiration andapplaufe. It has not only filled every Britifh bofom withthe proudeft exultation, but Foreign Nations have participatedin our feelings, and have hailed the Britifh Conqueror as theHero and Saviour of Europe. No Naval, or perhaps anyother Battle, ancient or modern, ever had fo much dependantupon its confequences—confequences which have even fur-paffed the anticipations of the molt experienced Statefmcnand profoundeft Roliticians in Europe ; and no Battle that everwas fought was perhaps conducted, in its progrefs, with fomuch judgment, or contefted, to its iffue, with fo much ardentand perfevering courage.The account of the general refult of this Action, even thebelt Hiftonans that fhall hereafter record it, will he proud toborrow from the fimple and eloquent Letter of the Admiralhimfelf: but in every tranfa<£tion of the kind, after the firfttumult of National exultation fhall have in feme degree liib-fided, a thoufand circumltances remain to be fupphed for thefatisfatflion of the enquiring mind, and which are effential togain a juft and perfect impreffion of the aitual merit of thegreat fervices which have been performed, 't he Hero, likeevery other man, is heft known and remembered by minutetrait; of charafter. Great and brilliant events dazzle andaftonifh, while the deliberations and turns of mind in a greatjnan that produce fuch events, attract our attention, awakenall our admiration, and permanently fix ourefteem.To supply what the Britifh Nation have long anxioufly w ifh-ed for, an Authentic Dei ail of all the Opeba iions ofthe British Squadron previous to the listrle, and of its par¬ticular conduit in the grand crifis which enfued, we are hap¬py that we can, from the kindnefs and indulgence of anOfficer who bore a molt diftinguifhed fhare in that great event,now' prefent a Narrative, at once minutely cireumftantial andftudioufly accurate.AUTHENTIC NARRATIVE, &c.IR HORATIO NELSON bnd been detached byEari St. Vincent into the Mediterranean withthe Vanguard of guns, the Rear-Admiral’s Flat; Ship,the O'ion and Alexander ot 7'4. "uns each, the Emeraldand Terpsichore Frigates, and La Bonne Cheyenne Sloopof War.Nothing material occurred to the Squadron from theday it sailed from Gibraltar, which was on the gth ofMav, till the 22d, when, being in the Gnlph of Lyons,at two A. M. a most violent squall of wind took theVanguard, which carried away her topmasts, and at lasther foremast. The other ships experienced, the furv ofthe gale, but not in the same de-.M e-as ;he V.^y-n- f,The three line of b .• trie si; ; •, i sr s-h-iif of the ;i, • • itthe same dav, and at the moment of the misibihtnewhich befell the Vanguard, the British Stu'1'!i<.n wasn-t many leagues distant from the French Fi-.t, underliunn-parte, which had on that very day sft sail fromToulon.The squadron bore up for Sardinia, the Alexanderfakin'! the Vanguard in tow, and the Orion looking outa head to endeavour to get a Pilot, for the purpose ofgaining St. Pierre’s road.On the 24th, with very great difficulty we reachedthat anchorage, where we were in great hopes of meet¬ing with a friendly reception, which out distresses sccm.-A 24|| ed to demand from a neutral power ; the governor of!! St. Pierre, however, had orders from the French not tof admit any British ships ; but their utmost hostility could: not prevent us from anch iring in the road—The re-;j sources which British Seamen always have within them-j) selves, availed us much upon this occasion. CaptainBerry, with the very great assistance he received from1 Sir James Saumarez and Captain Ball, was enabledwith great expedition to equip the Vanguard with a juryforemast, jury main and mizen top masts, and to-fishthe bowsprit, which was sprung in many places ; and onthe qth day from our anchoring in St. Pierre’s road, we^ nga'n put to sen with top-gallant yards across.It is proper here to observe, that although the Governor of St. Pierre, in consequence of peremptory or-: ders from the French, denied us a public reception, heyet privatelyin a friendly manner, giving us in anI undfrhand way, every assistance in his power.The Admiral, eager to execute the orders which hehad received, did not think of sailing to Naples of any: ether port where he could have received the most openand friendly assistance, in getting the ship properly re¬fitted, which her condition seemed to require, but im-1 mediately steered for his appointed rendezvous, nor d.dhe ever express the smallest intention of hiding his nagto either of the other ships, which to many Officers thepeculiar circumstances of his own shipjmight have seem¬ed to render desirable.—The Admiral and Officers ofthe Vanguard indeed had the happiness to find that theship sailed and worked.as well as the other ships, not¬withstanding her apparently crippled condition.The Squadron reached the rendezvous on the qth ofJune, and on the following day was joined by I.a Mutme,Capt. Hardv, who was charged with orders to the Ad¬miral, and who brought thehighly acceptable intelligence,that Capt. Troubridge had been detached with ten sailof the line, and a fifty gun ship, to reinforce us. Thisintelligence was received with universal joy througnoutour little Squadron ; and the Admiral obsetved to Capt.Berry,5Berry, thjit Kc would then be s match for any hostilefleet in ti e M-diterranean, and his only desire would beto encounter one.June 6th—The squadron was spread, anxiously look¬ing out for the expected reinforcement. By a vesselspoke with on that day, we were informed that severalsail then in sight, were Spanish ships richly iaden ; butPrize Money was not the object of the Admiral—all sel¬fish consideration was absorbed in his great mind bythat of the honour and interests of his country, and hisattention and anxiety were solely engrossed by his de¬sire to meet his promised reinforcement, that he mightpursue the enemy, of the sailing of whom from Toulon,he had certain intelligence.—The Alexander being on thetook out, stopped one of these ships—finding she hadon board eighty or ninety Priests, driven by the Frenchpersecutions and cruelties from Rome, he though itwould bean adtof humanity to permit the ship to pur¬sue her voyage ; and he accordingly released her, andrejoined the Admiral, bringing with him a few volun¬teers from the Spanish vessels, chiefly Genoese, whowere desirous of the honour of serving in the BritishFleet, expressing at the same time their detestation andresentment at the ill-usage which they had experiencedfrom the French.On the 8th at noon, we had the happiness to discoverfrom the mast head ten sail, and it was not long beforewe recognized them to be British Ships of War, stand¬ing upon a wind in close line of battle, with all sails set.Private signals were exchanged, and before sunset theso much wished for jundtion was formed, an event whichwas certainly facilitated by thegreat professional ability,judgment and zeal of Captain Troubridge.The Admiral had received no instrudfions whatcourse he was now to steer, and no certain informationrespedHng the destination of the enemy’s fleet; he wasleft, therefore, entirely to his own judgment. He hadthe happiness, however, to find, that to the Captains ofhis squadron he had no necessity to give diredtions forA 3 being6bdng in constant readiness for battle. On this pointtheir zeal anticipated his utmost wishes, for the decksof all the ships were kept perfectly clear night and day,and every man was ready to start to his post at a mo¬ment’s notice. It was a great satisfaction to him, like¬wise, to perceive that the men of all the ships were dailyexercised at the great guns and small arms, and thatevery thing was in the best state of prep ration for actualservice.The Admiral knew that the enemy had sailed with aN. W. wind, which naturally led him to conclude thattheir course was up the Mediterranean. He sent LaMulirie to Civitta Vecchia, and along the Roman Coastto gain intelligence, and steered with the fleet for Corsica,which he reached on the 12th of June. Several vesselshad been spoken with, on the passage thither but no in¬telligence whatever had been obtained from them. Hecontinued his course on the 13th between Corsica andElba, and between Planosa and Elba, through the latterof which passages large ships or fleets had not been ac¬customed to pass. We made the Roman Coast, andwere rejoined by La Muting, without gaining any intel¬ligence, notwithstanding the adlive exertions of Capt.Hardy. The Admiral now determined to steer towardsNaples, in the hopes of some satisfactory information.It had been reported that theplundering Algiers was theobjedt of the French Armament; but this account wastoo vague to warrant the Admiral in implicitly adoptingit. We saw Mount Vesuvius on the 16th, anddetach-ed Captain Troubridge, in to obtain whatinformation he could from Sir Wm. Hamilton. Hereturned with a report only, that the enemy were gonetowards Malta. The Admiral now lamented that evena day had been lost by visiting the Bay of Naples, anddetermined, by the shortest cut, to make the Faro diMessina, which the fleet passed through n the 20th, witha fair wind. The joy with which the Sicilians hailedour squadron, when it was discovered by them to beBritish,7 -British, gave the most sincere satisfaction to every oneon board of it. A vast number of boats came off, androwed round it with the loudest congratulations, and thesincerest exultation, as they had been apprehensive thatthe French fleet was destined to aft against them, afterthecapture of Malta. Here we gained intelligence fromthe British Consul, that Malta had aftually surrendered.We had now hopes of being able to attack the enemy’sfleet at Goza, where it was reported they were anchored,and the Admiral immediately formed a plan for thatpurpose.We were now steering with a press of sail for Malta,with a fresh breeze at N. W. On the 226 June, LaMutine, at day-light in the morning, spoke a Genoesebrig from Malta, which gave intelligence that the Frenchhad sailed from thence on the 18th, with a fresh galeat N. W. The Admiral was was not long indeterming what course he should take, and(fnadethe signal to bear up and steer to the S. E, withall possible sail. At this time we had no certainmeans of ascertaining that the enemy were npt Boundup the Adriatic!*. 4From the day we bore up, till the 29th of June, onlythree vessels were spoken with, two of which had comefrom Alexandria, and had not seen any thing of theenemy’s fleet; the other had come from the Arphipelago,and had likewise seen nothing of them. This day wesaw the Pharos Tower of Alexandria, and continued near¬ing the land with a press of sail, till we had/a distinftview of both Harbours; and to our general surpriseand disappointment, we saw not a French ship in either.—La Vutine communicated with the Governor of Alex¬andria, who was as much surprised at seeing a Britishsquadron there, as he \yas at the intelligence that aFrench fleet was probably on its passage thither.It now became a subjeft of deep and anxious delibera¬tion with the Admiral what could possibly have beenthe8the course of the enemy, and what their ultimate de¬stination. His anxious and active mind, h wever,\vould not permit him to rest a moment in the sameplace, he therefore shaped his course to the Northward,for the coast of Caramanea, to reach as quickly as possi¬ble some quarter where information could most pro¬bably be obtained, as well as to supply his ships withVetter, of which they began to run short.On'the 4th of July we made the coast of Caramanea ;steering along the South side of Candia, carrying a pressof sail both ufgiit and day with a contrary wind, on the]8th we saw the island of Sicily, when the Admiral de¬termined to enter the Port of Syracuse. With thisHarbour no person in the fleet wns acquainted^—but bythe skilfand judgment of the Officers, every ship safelygot in, and immediately proceeded to .get in water, &c.with all possible expedition. This was’the first oppor¬tunity,that the Vanguard \\2i& had of receiving water onboard from the 6th of May, so that not only the stockof that ship, but of several others of the squadron, wasvery nearly exhausted. Although there was no properor regular watering-place, yet the great exertions ofthe Officers and men enabled us to complete this ne¬cessary service in five days, and on the 25th the squa¬dron again put to sea.We received vague accounts while at Syracuse, thatthe enemy's fleet had not been seen in the Archipelagonor the Adriatic, nor had they gone down the Medi¬terranean; the conclusion then seemed to be, that theCoast of Egypt was still the objeft of their destination,therefore, neither our former disappointment, nor thehardships we had endured from the heat of the clim te,though we were still to follow an uncertain pursuit,could deter the Admiral from steering to that pointwhere there was a chance of finding the enemy.Now that it is ascertained bv events that Alexandriawas the objedl of the enemv, it may seem strange thatthey should have been missed bv us both-in our passagethither and our return to Syracuse; but it appears thatthe9the Frenrh steered a direct course for Candi.r, by whichthey made an angular passage t wards Alexandria, whilstwe steered a diredt course for that place, without makingCandia at all, by which we of course very .considerablyi shortened the distance. The smallness of our squadronmade it necessary to sail in close order, and therefore thet space which it covered was very limited ; and as the Ad-I miral had no frigates that he might have detached uponthe look-out, added to theconstant haze ofthe atmospherein that climate, our chance of descrying the enemy was(very much circumscribed. The distance likewise be¬tween Candia and the Barbary Coast, about 35 leagues,leave® very sufficient space for more than two of thelargest Beets to pass without mutual observation, par¬ticularly under the circumstances described.On our return to Sytacus’, the circumstance of our'steering up to the Northward, while the enemy kept aSouthern course for Alexandria, makes it obvious thatour chance of falling in with them was still less thanbefore.On the 25th of July we left Syracuse, still withoutany positive information respecting the enemy ; but itoccurred to the Admiral, that some authentic intelli¬gence might be obtained in the Morea. We steeeredfor that Coast, and made ihe Gulph of Coron on the28th. Captain Troubridge was again employed on theimportant service'of obtaining intelligence, and wasdispatched in the Culloden into Coron, off which place,by the greatexertions of that able Officer, the fleet wasnotdetained above three hours. He returned with intcl-ligencefrom the Turkish Governor, that the enemy hadbeen seen steering to the S. E. from Candia about fourweeks before. Captain Troubridge had had the satis-faeftion of observing, during hi-; very hurried visit toCoron, that the Inhabitants there entertained the mostserious apprehensions from the French Armament, andthe most perfect detestation against that people.Upon the information obtained by Captain Trou-bridge, the Admiral determined again to visit Alexan¬dria,10dria, and carried a!! sail steering for that place, whichwe had the pleasure to descry on the ist of August atnoon -but not as before, it now appearing full of ves¬sels of various kinds! and we soon had the satisfactionof perceiving the French Hag flying on board some ofthe ships. The utmost jov seemed to animate everybreast on board the squadron at sight of the enemy ; andthe pleasure which the Admiral himself felt, was perhapsmore heightened than that ot any other man, as he hadnow a certainty by which he could regulate his futureoperations.The Admiral had, and it appeared most justly, thehighest opinion of, and placed the firmest reliance onthe valour and conduft oft very Captain in hisSquadron.It. had been his practice during the whole of h:s Cruize,whenever the weather and circumstances would, permit,to have his Captains on board the Vanguard, where hewould fullv develope to them his own ideas of the differ¬ent and modes of attack, and such plans as he proposedto execute upon falling in with the Enemy, whatevertheir position or situation might be, by night or by day.There was no possible position in which they could befound that he did not take into his calculation, and forthe most advantageous attack of which, he had not di¬gested and arvsnrred the best p.-ss'hfe disoosiHon of thet ' •: V.t i o - ' '' ' sof their Almira!, therefore, on the subje.ei of NavalTadics, everv one of the Captains of his Squadron wasthoroughly acquainted; and upon surveying the situationof the ettemv, they could ascertain with precision whatwere the ideas and intention of their commander, with¬out the aid of any further instructions ; bv wh>rh meanssignals became almost unnessarv, much rim : was stvedand the attention of every Captain could aim >st un tis-traftediy be paid to the condu t of his own particularship, a circumstance of which, upon this occasion, tneadvantaeestothegenera! service werealmostincalculable.It cannot here be thought irrelevant to give someidea of whatwere the plans which Admiral Nelson hadformed,11formed, and which he explained to his Captains 'withsuch perspicuity, as to render his ideas completely theirown. To their Naval Service at least they must provenot only interesdng but useful.Had he fallen in with the French Fleet at sea, thathe might make the best impression upon any part of itthat should appear the most vulnerable, or the most eli¬gible for attack, he divided his force in three Sub-Squa¬drons, viz.Vanguard, Orion, Culloden, Minotaur, Goliath,Theseus, Leander, Majestic, Alexander, Audacious,Bellerophon, Swiftsure, Defence, Zealous,Two of these Sub-Squadrons were to attack the Shipsof War, while the third was to.pursue the Transports,and to sink and destroy as many as it could.Thedestination ot theFrench Armament was involvedin doubt and uncertainty ; but it forcibly struck the Ad¬miral, that, as it was commanded by the man whomthe French had dignified with the title of the Conquerorof Italy, and as he had with him a very large body ofTroops, an Expedition had been planned, which theland force might execute witliout the aid of their fleet,should the transports be permitted to make their escape,and r.tach in safety their place of rendezvous ; it there¬fore b came a material consideration with the Admiral,so to arrange his force, as at once to engage the wholeattention of their ships of w tr, and at the same timematerially to annoy and injure their convoy. It rvillbe fully admitted, from the subsequent informationwhich has been received upon the subject, that the ideasof the Admiral upon this occasion were pet deftly just,and that the plan which he had arranged was the mostlikely to frustrate the desi ns of the enemy.It is almost unnecessary to exp'ain his projeftedmode of attack at anchor, as tint was minutely and pre¬cisely executed in the aft ion which we now come to de¬scribe. These plans,! owever, were formed two monthsbefore an opportunity presented itself of executing anyof them, and the advantage now was, that they were. familiar12familiar to the understanding of every Captain in thfleet.It has been already mentioned, that we saw the Phamof Alexandria at noon on the ist August. The Alexait-der and Swiftsure had been detached a head on the proceding evening to reconnoitre the ports of Alexandriawhile the main body of the squadron kept in the offing-The enemy’s fleet were first discovered by the Zealous^Capt Hood, who immediately communicated, by signalthe number of ships, s-xteen, laying at anchor in linebattle, in a Bay upon the larboard bow, which we afterwards found tobe Aboukir Bay. The Admiral haufehis wind that instant, a movement which was imme¬diately observed and followed bv the whole squadronand at the same time he recalled the Alexander ancjSwift sure. The wind was at thir time N. N. W. anc|blew what Seamen call a top-gallant breeze.—It w;as necessary to take in the royals when we hauled upon zwind.The Admiral made the signal to prepare for battleand that it was his intention to attack the enemy’s varand centre as they lay at anchor, and according to thtplan before developed. His idea, in this disposition oihis force was, first to secure the Vnflorv, and then te,make the most of it as circumstances might permit. /Ibower cable of each ship was immediately got out abattffland bent forward. We continued carrying sail ancjstanding in for the enemy’s fleet in a close line ot battle]As all the Officers of our squadron were totally unacquainted with Aboukir Bay, each ship kept soundinga:she stood in.The enemy appeared to be moored in a strong anccompadl line of battle, close in with the shore, their lin#describing an obtuse angle in its form, flanked by nu.merous gun-boats, four frigates, and a battery of gunand mortars on an island in their van.— I his situatiotof the enemy seemed to secure to them the most decideoadvantages, as they had nothing to attend to- but theiartillery, in their sucerior skill in the use of which.7 * Frencli13French so much pride themselves, and to which indeedtheir splendid series of land victories was in generalchiefly to be imputed.The position of the enemy presented the most for¬midable obstacles; but the Admiral viewed these withthe eye-of a seaman determined on attack ; and it in¬stantly struck his eager and penetrating mind, thatwhere there was room for an enemy’s ship to swing,there was room for one of ours to anchor. No furthersignal was necessary than those which had already beenmade. The Admiral’s designs were as fully know to hiswhole squadron, as was his determination to conquer, orperish in the attempt,The Goliath and Zealous.had the honour to lead in¬side, and to receive the first fire from the Van ships ofthe enemy, as well as from the batteries and gun boatswith which their van was strengthened. These twoships, with the Orion, Audacious and Theseus, tooktheir stations inside the enemy’s line, and were imme¬diately in close a6li.on. The Vanguard anchoredthe first on the outer side of the enemy, and .was op¬posed within half pistol shot to Le Spartiate, the third inthe enemy’s line. In standing in, our leading shipswere unavoidably obliged to receive into their bowsthe whole fire of the broadsides of the French line, un¬til they could take their respedlive stations; and it jsbut justice to observe, that the enemy received us withgreat'firmness and deliberation, no colours having beenhoisted on either side, nor a gun fired, till our van ships’ were within half .gun shot.At this time the necessary number of our men wereemployed aloft in furling sails, and on deck, in haulingthe braces, &c. preparatory to our casting anchor. Asspon as thi$ took place, a most animated .fire was open¬ed fmnp the Vanguard, which ship covered the ap-.proacn of those ,in the rear, which .were following in. a' close line. The Minotaur, Defence, Bellerophon, Ma-]‘estiq;'Swlftsure arid-Alexander, came up in succession,and passing withing hail of the Vanguard, took their re-B spedl ive14spe.&ive stations opposed to the enemy’s line. All ourships anchored by the stern, by which means the Britishline became inverted from van to rear.Capt. Thompson of the Leander, of 50 guns, witha degree of judgment highly honourable to his profes¬sional character,, advanced towards the enemy’s line onthe outside, and most judiciously dropped his anchorathwart hauseof Le Franklin, raking her with great suc¬cess, the shot from the Leander’s broadside which passedthat ship all striking L’Orient, the flag ship of the Frenchcommander in chief.The atflion commenced at sun-set, which was at 31min. past six P. M. with an ardour and vigour which itis impossible to describe.At about seven o’clock total darkness had come on ;but the whole hemisphere was, with intervals, illuminat¬ed by the fire of the hostile fleets. Our ships, whendarkness came on, had all hoisted their distinguishinglights, by a signal from the Admiral.The van ship of the enemy, Le Guerrier, was dis¬masted in less than twelve minutes; and, in ten minutesafter, the second ship, Le Conquerant, and the third,Le Spartiate, very nearly at the same moment were alsodismasted. L’Aquilon and Le Souverain People, thefourth and fifth ships of the enemy’s line, were takenpossession of by the British at half past eight in theevening.Capt. Berry, at that hour, sent Lieut. Galway, of theVanguard, with a party of Marines, to take possessionof Le Spartiate, and that officer returned by the boat,the French Captain’s sword, which Captain Berry im¬mediately delivered to the Admiral, who was then belowin consequence of the severe wound which he had re¬ceived in the head during the heat of the attack.At this time it appeared that vidlory had already de¬clared itself in our favour, for although L’Orient,L’Heureux, and Tonnant were not taken possession of,they were considered as completely in our power, which1 pleasing15pleasing intelligence Capt. Berry had likewise the satis-ladtion of communicating in person to the Admiral.At ten minutes after nine, a fire was observed onboard L’Orient, the French Admiral's ship, which seem¬ed to proceed from the after part of the Cabin, andwhich increased with great rapidity, presently involvingthe whole of (he after part of the ship in flames. Thiscircumstance Capt. Berry immediately communicatedto the Admiral, who, though suffering severely fromhis wound, came up upon deck, where the first consi¬deration that struck his mind, was concern for the dan •ger of so many lives, to save as many as possible ofwhom he ordered Capt. Berry to make every practicableexertion. A boat, the only one that could swim, wasinstantly dispatched from the Vanguard, and otherships that were in a condition to do so, immediately fol¬lowed the example; by which means, from the bestinformation, the lives of about seventy Frenchmenwere saved.The light thrown by the fire of L’Orient upon thesurrounding obje&s, enabled us to perceive with morecertainty the situatiorf of the two fleets, the colours ofboth being dearly distinguishable. The cannonadingwas partially kept up to leeward of the centre till aboutten o’clock, when L’Orient blew up with a most tre¬mendous explosion. An awful pause and deathlike si¬lence for about three minutes ensued, when the wreckof the masts, yards, &x. &c. which had been carried toa vast height, fell down into the water and on boardthe surrounding ships. A Port fire from L’Orient fellinto the main royal of the Alexander, the fire occasionedby which was however extinguished in about two mi¬nutes, by the a&ive exertions of Capt Ball. After thisawful scene, the firing recommenced with the ship? toleeward of the centre till twenty minutes past ten, whenthere was a total cessation of firing foraboutten minutes;after which it was revived till about three in the darn¬ing, when it again ceased.B 2After16After the vi&ory had been seemed in the van, suchBritish ships as were in a condition to mo\e, had gonedown upon the fresh ships of the enemy.At five minutes past five in the morning the two rearshipsof the enemv, LeGuiliaume Tell and Le Gedereux,were the only French ships of the line that had theircolours flying.At fifty-four minutes past five a French frigate,L’Artemise, fired a broadside and struck her colours ;but such was the unwarrantable and infamous cenducf.of the French captain, that after hiving thus surrender¬ed, he seSfire to his ship, and with part of his crew,made his escape on shore.Another French frigate, La Serieuse, had been sunkby the fire from some of our ships; but as her poop re¬mained above water, her men were saved upon it, andwere taken off by our boats in the morning.The Bellerophon, whose masts and cables had beenentirely shot away, could not retain her situation abreastaf L'Orient, but had drifted out of the line to the leeside of the Bay, a little before that ship blew up. TheAudacious was in the morning detached to her assistance.At eleven o’clock Le Genereux and Guillaume Tell,with the two frigates, Le Justice and Le Diane, cuttheir cables and stood out to sea, pursued by the Zealous,Capf. Hood, who, as the Admiral himself has stated,handsomely endeavoured to prevent their escape; but asthere was no other ship in a condition to support theZealous, she was recalled.The wholeday of the second was employed in securingthe Fiench ships that had struck, and wh'ch were nowad completely in our possession, Le Tonnant andTimolcon excepted; as these were both dismasted, andconsequently could net escape, they were naturally thelast of which we thought of taking possession.On the morning of the third the Timeleon was set fireto, and Le Tomiant had cut her cable and drifted onshore, but that active officer, Captain Miller, of theTheseus, soon got her off again, and secured her in theBritish line,17The British force engaged consisted of twelve ships of74 guns, and the Leander, of 50.From the over anxiety and zeal of Captain Trou-bridge to get into adtion, his ship, the Cujioden, instanding in for the van of the enemy’s line, unfortu¬nately grounded upon the tail of a shoal running otffrom the island, on which were the mortar and gunbatteries of the enemy; and notwithstanding ail the ex¬ertions of that able officer and his ship’s company, shecould not be got off. This unfortunate circumstancewas severely felt a't the moment by the Admiral and allthe officers of the squadron ; but their feelings were no¬thing compared to the anxiety and even anguish of mindwhich the Captain of the Culloden himself experienced,for so many eventful hours. There was but one con¬solation that could offer itself to him in the midst of thedistresses of his situation, a feeble one it is true—thathis ship served as a beacon for three other ships, viz.the Alexander, Theseus, and Leander, which were ad¬vancing with all possible sail set close in his rear, andwhich otherwise might have experienced a similar mis¬fortune, and thus in a greater proportion still, haveweakened our huce.it was not till the morning of the ad, that the Cul¬loden couid be gooff, and it was found she had sufferedvery considerable damage in her bottom ; that her rudderwas beat off, and the crew could scarcely keep her afloatwith all pumps going.The resources of Captain Troubvidge’s mind availedhim much, and were admirably exerted upon this try¬ing occasion. In four days he hsd n new rudder madeupon his own deck, which was immediately shipped;and the Culloden was again in a state foradtual 8ervice»though still very leaky.The Admiral, knowing that the wounded of his ownship had been well taken tare of, bent his first attentionto those of the enemy. He established a Truce with thecommandant of Aboukir, and through him made a com¬munication to the commandant of Alexandria, that itB 3 wasISwas Iiis intention to allow all the wounded Frenchmento he taken ashore to proper Hospitals, with their ownSurgeons to attend them ; a proposal which was wellreceived by the French, and which was carried intoeffedl on the following day.The adlivity and generous consideration of CaptainTroubridge, were again exerted at this time for thegenera] good. He communicated with the shore, andhad the address to procure a supply of fresh provisions,onions, &.c. w hich were served out to the sick and wound¬ed, and which proved of essential utility.On the 2d, the Arabs and Mamelukes, who duringthe battle had lined the shores of the bay, saw- with trans¬port that the victory was decisively ours, an event inwhich they participated with an exultation almost equalto our own ; and on that and the two following nights,the whole coast and country were illuminated as tar asWe could see, in celebration of our victory. This had3 great eflfecfl upon the minds of our ptisoners, as theyconceived that this illumination was the consequence notentirely of our succces, but of some signal advantageobtained by the Arabs and Mamelukes over Buonaparte.Although it is natural to suppose that the time andattention of the Admiral, and all the officers of hissquadron, were very fully employed in repairing thedamages sustained by their own ships, and in s<curingthose of the enemy, which their valour had subdued,yet the mind of that great and good man felt the strong¬est emotions of the most pious gratitude to the SupremeBeing, for the signal success which, by His divine ta-vour, had crowned his endeavours in the cause of hiscountry, and in consequence, on the morning of the2d, he issued the following memorandum to the dif¬ferent Captains of his squadron.“ Vanguard, off the Mouth of the Kile, 2d day ofAugust, 1798.Almighty God having blessed His Majesty s Arms with\ jflory, the Admiral intends returning Public Thanksgiving19for the fame at two o’clock this clay, ami lie recommendsevery ship doing the fame as soon as convenient.“ To the respedlive Captains of the Squadron.”At two o’clock accordingly on that day public ser¬vice was performed on the quarter deck ot the Van¬guard, by the Rev. Mr. Ccmyn, the other ships follow¬ing the example of the Admiral, though perhaps not allat the same time.This solemn abt of gratitude to heaven seemed tomake a very deep impression upon several of the pris¬oners, both officers and men, some of the former ofwhom remarked, “ that it was no wonder we could pre¬serve such order and discipline, when we could impressthe minds of our men with such sentiments after avictory so great, and at a moment of such seeming con¬fusion.”On the same day the following Memorandum wasissued to all the ships, expressive of the Admiral’s sen¬timents of the noble exertions of the different officersand men of his squadron.“ Vanguard, 2d day of August, 1798, off theMouth of the Nile.“ The Admiral most heartily congratulates the Captains;Officers, Seamen and Marines of the Squadron lie hat thethe honour to command, on the event of the late Addon ;and he desires they will accept his most sincere and cordialThanks for their very gallant behaviour in this glorious Bat¬tle. . It must strike fmcibly every British'Seaman, how fu-perior their condudt is, when in discipline and good order, tothe riotous behaviour of lawless Frenchmen.“ The Squadron may be assured the Admiral will not fail,with his Dispatches, to represent their truly meritorious con¬duct in the strongest terms to the Commander in Chief.“ To the Captains of the Ships of the Squadron.”The praise expressed in this mem tandum couldnot fail to be highly acceptable and gratifving to everyindividual in the squadron; and the observation whichit endeavoured to impress upon the minds of all, or thestriking advantages derived from discipline and goodordet^20order, was so much the effedl of recent experience,that every heart immediately assented to its justice.The benefit of this important truth, will not, we trust,be confined to any particular branch of the British na¬vy ; the sentiment of the Hero of the Nile must infuseitself into the heart of every British seaman, in what¬ever quarter of the globe, he may be extending the gloryand interest of his country, and will there produce theconvidHon, that courage alone will not lead him toconquest, without the aid and direftion of exadl dis¬cipline and order. Let those who desire to emulate(as every British seaman must), the glory acquiredupon this signal occasion, pursue the same means whichprincipally led to its acquisition. Let them repose themost perfedl reliance in the courage, judgment, andskill of their superior officers, and let them aid thedesigns of these by uniform submissive obedience andwilling subordination—so shall the British navy con¬tinue to be the admiration of the world, till time shallbe no more!Immediately after the action, some Maltese, Genoese,and Spaniards, who had been serving on board theFrench fleet, offerered their services in ours, which wereaccepted ; and they expressed the greatest happinessat thus being freed, as they themselves said, from thetyranny and cruelty of the French.On the qth day after the adtion, Captain Berry, of theVanguard, sailed in the Leander, of 50 guns, with theAdmiral’s dispatches to the commander in chief, EarlSt. Vincent, off Cadiz, containing intelligence of theGlorious Vidiovy which he had obtained.✓We cannot Forbear pxefenting our Readers rvitli the follow.ing comorehensiv’c and eloquent epistle, irom AdmiralNclfon to Lord St. Vincent.Vanguard, oft' tire Mouth of the Nile,Aug. 5,1.7SixMY LORD,Almighty God has blessed His Majesty’s arms in the lateBattle, by a great Viftory over the Fleet of the enemy,whom I attacked at fun-let on the first of August off theMouth of the Nile. The enemy were moored in a strongLine of Battle for defending tire entrance of the Bay' (ofShoals), flanked by the numerous Gun~boats, four Frigates,and a Battery of guns and mortars on an Ifland in their Van;but nothing could withstand the Squadron your Lordship didme the honor to place under my Command. Their highstate of discipline is well known to you, and with the judg¬ment of the Captains, together with their valour and that ofthe Officers and Men of every defeription, it was absolutelyirresistible.Could any thing from my pen add to the characters of theCaptains, I would svrite it with pleafure, but that is impoffi-ble.I have to regret the loss of Captain Westcott, of the Ma¬jestic, who was killed early in the ACtion; but Are ship wascontinued to be £a well fought by her First Lieutenant Mr.Cuthbert, that I have given him an order to comrjtand hertill your Lordship’s pleafure is known.The ships of the enemy, all but their two rear ships, arenearly dismasted; and those two with two Frigates, I amsorry to fay, made their escape; nor was it, I assure you, inmy power to prevent them. Captain Hood most handfomelyendeavoured to do it, but I had no ship in a condition to fup-port the Zealous, and I was obliged to caliber in.The fupport and assistance I have received from CaptainBevy cannot be fiifhciently expressed. I was wounded inthe head, and obliged to be carried off the deck, but theService suffered no loss by that event. Captain Berry wasfully equal to the important service then going on, and tohim I must beg leave to refer you for every information rela¬tive to this Victory. He will prefent you with the Flag ofthe second in Command, that of the Commander in Chief be¬ing burnt in the L’Orient.I have the Honour to be, &c.HORATIO XELSON.To Admiral the Earl of St. Vincent,Commander in Chief, &c. &c.&c. off Cadiz.LINE OF BATTLE.L Cullodcn, T. Troubridge, Captain, 74 guns, 590 men.2. Theseus, R. W. Miller, Captain, 74 guns, 590 men.3. Alexander, Alex. J. Ball, Captain, 71 guns, 590 men.4. Vanguard, Rear-Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson, K. B. Ed¬ward Berry, Captain, 74 guns, 595 men.5. Minotaur, Thomas Louis, Captain, 74 guns, 640 men.6. Leandcr, T. B. Thompfon, Captain, 50 guns, 345 men.7. Svviftsure, B. Hallowell, Captain, 74 guns, 590 men.8. Audacious, Davidge Gould, Captain, 74 guns, 590 men.9. Defence, John Peyton, Captain, 7 4 guns, 590 men.10. Zealous, Samuel Hood, Captain, 74 guns, 590 men.11. Orion, Sir James Saumarez, Captain,-74 guns, 590 men.12. Goliath, Thomas Foley, Captain, 74 guns, 590 men.13. Majestic, Geo. B. Westcott, Captain, 74 guns, 590 men.14. BeUerophon, Henry D. E. Darby, Captain, 74 guns, 590men.La Mutine Brig.HORATIO NELSON.Vanguard, off the Mouth of the Nile,August 3, 1798.FRENCH LINE OF BATTLE.1. Le Guerrier, 74 guns, GOO men—Taken.2. , Le Conquerant, 7 4 guns, 700 men—Taken.3. Le Spartiate, 74 guns, 700 men—Taken.4. L’Aquilon, 74 guns, 700 men—Taken.5. Le Souverain Peuple, 7 4 guns, 700 men—Taken.6. Le Franklin, Blanquet, First Centre Admiral, 80 guns,800 men—Taken.7. L’Orient, Brueys, Admiral and Commander in Chief, 120guns, 1010 men—Burnt.8. Le Tonant, 80 guns, 800 men—Taken.9. L’Heureux, 74 guns, 700 men—Taken.10. Le Timoleon, 74 guns, 700 men-—Burnt.11. Le Mercure, 74 guns, 700 men—-Taken.12. Lc2312. Le Guillaume Tell, Villeneuve, Second Centre Admiral80 guns, 800 men—-Efcaped.13. Le Genereux, 74 guns, 700 men—Efcaped.FRIGATES.14. Le Diane, 48 guns, 300 men---Escaped.15. Le Justice, 44 guns, 500 men—Escaped.16. L’Artemise, 36 guns, 250 men—Burnt.17. Le Serieuse, 56 guns, 250men---Dismasted and sunk.HORATIO NELSON.Vanguard, off the Mouth of the Nile,August 3, 1798.r- s ;il'A frtjmOO?,*nL.. .>3. i i --a-';. 00? ,*nj3 J.r,xu„'i3n-jD ,CI.? frAaun.l.-wi : :n 005 ««Blf ,!‘,9nr.i0[ 3.1 .+1i-. —. s -i '! : - i4 t’niuutoJ .rf.!r;7i)'' - - ■ . ... .. iiawA' I -I!■'. .'i-.- isui . .V dO( rjir>Z ■■id SI.1■ , i. • ■ i .. - !.0 :Ti■4