Satan*#Invisible World• ,i ev' 7~T\rroc -sr jc "tts-tt-I XJV 8t f '. r Kckfi'iSgVTDISCOVERED.• J lo1)0'''•'its:‘ < l ** v f* j.t )'VT' 1 Playedount ofSeveral Apparition’s, witches, and Invisible Spirits.,s-»'c '.J. si aidr- "v "t • irei'x.'i.a. ^ - :to which is added.PHIS’! E 0 F* 0 R X H B IS 0 0 K. S E T, L E R S.Ilf)M LIB^}SCOTLANDubo!^GLASGOW:The Marvellous History ofMAJOR WEIR AND HIS SISTER.*rv,;/;?rI 'ilmi' ■■ .'»-4 -«c^ni(j3 dfiffeijuf J5ni> ^? r' ‘ ,bh' • • • * C - - A1^Fslve,:. ■ - <>• .. ,-v-I' u / .'OlTQi :sBdt n‘s;:lot lie,w Ti i ^-«< ;■. . *•. :**** - • , ■vW-*^ I-■' i : , —(n**k 't:\jfy4,: • .„noyo 3i• ....'***b***»**Mw>tA rtu«s ^ bill'dSATANSINV1SABLE WORLDDISCOVERED •MAJOR WEIR AND HIS SISTER.1, This man, Thomas Wfeir, was horn at Clydesdale,jj near to Lanark, who had been a lieutenant in Ire-land long since. What way he came to get someI public command in the city of Edinburgh, in theyears 1G49 and 50, I know not; but it seems hehas.always been called Major Weir since that tune.Many things might be narrated of him, which for| brevity's sake, 1 cannot meddle with, since I in-Itend only to speak of his sorceries, and other thingsrelating thereunto. It seems he had, before he wasburnt, some charge over the waiters at the ports ofthe city, being, as it were, a check to them. Com¬ing one day, as his custom was, he found soma ofthem in a cellar, taking a cup of ale, neglectingtheir charge. After a gentle reproof, one of themrjlreplied, 'Ihat some of their number beuig upon) duty, the rest had retired to drink with with theirfjold friend Mr. Burn. At which he started back.1and casting an eye upon him, repeated the wordBurn four or five titties : and going home, he nevercame abroad afterwards, till a few- weeks after behad discovered his impieties. It was observed bysome, that going to Li her ton sometimes, he’shun¬ned to step over that water brook, which is ordin*arily calfttd Liberibti-bhri/, but-Went-abontto shu»it. Some have conjectured that he had-advice tohfeii'lrre fff^:httrnsome other thing? which thisequivocal word might signify, as burn in-a fire. Ifso, he has foreseen his day approaching. A yew-t-A™ he discovered hmisfelf, he'took1 a Odre siok-etoreness1^urifigi,4hTchY:i}i6ii§fspak£d*lh*rill^h61 vrsffi-him like an anhel, and came frequently abroad^agaui!——^Iliis man taking some dreadful tortures■ P   i- •— °of conscience, and the terrors of the Almighty be-uponHiS ppi'f'it, confessed to several neigHbotffsmguonurm hisirJ-r'i'jown liouse, and that most Willingly, particu¬lar sins which he was guilty of, which bred amaze-ivent to all persons, they coming from a man or soiiiffh repute for religion and piety. He ended withlo>n«,feW. of.,, .nanothis, re marexpression.Before Crod, (saysfie) I have not told you the hundred part of what Ibfus .eif ' fi awa aid of uoUr^df -wL*. trr«<tc>can say more, and am guilty or. 1 hese very samea iiomi nations he confessed before the judges likewise.But after this, he would nevr, fall his dyinir hourConfess, any more, which might have been for t'fie‘ jnswj hr^thersi hhtglorifying of God, arid the edificationf m 9Hii -l11 niri*f* *~ tr^r 'giff 15remained stupid, having no confidence to look anj/man in the face, or to open his eyes. When twpof the magistrates came to to his house in the night¬time to carry him to prison, they asked, If he hadany money to secure ? He answered none. Hissister said there was. Whereupon, to the value offive dollars, in percels here and there, were foundin several clouts. His sister advised the two mag¬istrates to secure his staff especially ; for she alsowent to prison. After he was secured in the to!-.boulh, the bmiies returned, and went to a tavern0 * • * ’inf 17 Jjy ■ 310i0unear to Weir’s house in the West-how, a street sotjj ^ f'ffijj •called there. The money was put into a bag, ajiidthe clouts thrown in',o the fire, by the master of thehouse and his wife ; which, after an unusual mannermade acirclinganddancingin the fire. There wasan-other clout found with some hard thing it, whichthey threw into the fire likewise ; it being a certainroot, which circled and sparkled like gun-powder,and passing from the tunnel of the chimney, itgayea crack like a little cannon, to the amazement ofall that were present.—The money aforesaid wastaken by one of the bailies to his own house, andlaid by in his closet. After family-prayer was encl-ed, he retired into the same closet, (where I ha^ebeen) during which time his wife, who is yet living,and the rest of the family, were affrighted with aterrible noise within the study, like the failing Vf ahouse about three times together. His wiffijgave a fearful cry, “My dear are you alive?,,|The bailie came out unafraid, having, he said |heard nothing; whether he concealed this uponMthe account his wile was with child, or otherwise, ISit cannot be well known. The money was pro- Ifsently sent away to another bailie’s house, at agreat distance from Weir’s; where there wassome disturbance, but in broken expressions.During the time of his imprisonment, ho wasnever willing to be spoken to; and when theministers of the city offered to pray for him, hewould cry out in fury, “ Torment me no more,for I am tormented already.” One ministerasking him, If he would pray for him ? was an¬swered, Not at all. The other replied, in a kindof holy anger, “ Sir, I will pray for you in spiteof your teeth and the devil your master to,” whodid pray, making him at least to hear him; butthe other starting wildly, was senseless as a brute.Another minister asked him if he thought therewas a God; said the man, I know not. Theother replied smartly, “ O man, the argumentthat moveth me to think there is a God, is thy¬self; for what else moveth thee to inform theworld of thy wicked life ?” But Weir answered,Let me alone. When he peremptorily forbadeone of liis own parish ministers to pray, onej demanded, if he would have any of the presbyterianI persuasion to pray, he answered, “ Sir, you are all! alike to me.” Then said the minister to him. Iwill pray for you.” “ Do it not,” said the other,‘t upon your perillooking up to the beams of thehouse. But prayer was offered up so much themore heartily, because the Company about expect¬ed some vision. It is observeable, that in thingscommon he was pertinent enough ; but when anything about Almighty God, and his soul’s condi¬tion, came about, he would shrug, and rub his coatand breast, saying to them, '** Torment me not be¬fore the time/’ When he was at the stake to beburnt, the city ministers called to a churchmanthere looking on, being one of that persuasion where¬of Weir was formerly deemed to be, to speak tohim ; but no sooner had he opened his rnouth, thanhe made a sign with head to be silent. When therope was about his neck to prepare him for the fire,he was bid say, Lord be merciful to me; but heanswered, “ Let me alone, I will not; 1 have livedas a beast, and I must die as a beast.” The firebeing kindled, both he and his.staff, a little after,fell into the flames. Whatever incantation was inhis staff, is not for me to discuss. He could notofticiate in any holy duty, without his rod in. hishand, and leaning upon it, which made those whoheard him pray, admire his fluency in prayer. Its8falling into Uih tire with him, (let others seaieh outilie disparity) minds me of this passage. In Zet¬land a few years ago, ajudg having condemnediin old woman and her daughter, called HelenStewart, for witchcraft, sent them to he burned.The maid was so stupid, that she was thought toWhen she had hung some little timea blackj«oa-Ja1)^ moss<oh the gibbet, a black pitchy-like ball foamed outof her mouth ; and after the tire was kindled, it grewto the bigness of a walnut, and then flew rip likeMums mlo |ji&*airl wbicli 'thejucljte,'yet living, ut-’tests!. "'If was taken lo hoa'yisable sign, that thedevil was gone out of her. I shall not make application of tfiis a’s [o^Xi'* Weir’s staff. 1 knowfrom good hands, that if tins man repented of anyJungia prison, it was for causing a poor maid todie scourged, who affirmed, she had seen him com¬mit bestiality going to Newmills to a solemn met¬ing. This poor woman lived about two years afterhis death, and heard of his fatal end. His iiicelt'wi th liis own sister, was first when she was a youiigmaid. The place where this abomination was com-nutted, was cursed ; for, contrary to nature, it re-Tnained always bare without grass. A reverendmlriisier told me, (I mention this as from myself,not from the author of the letter) that Major Weirconfessed so much to him, and told him, that thepface li'es off the road-way between TCiikcald’y1 an’dKinghorn, upon a little hill-side; which he hadso.the curiosity to go and see, and found it so. Thiswas done the matter of fifty years ago. Manyother things he confessed, which Christian earsshould not he defiled with.—Before 1 come to his■’ iflj lee i . t! K;sister, take this notable remark from two personsyet alive, dwelling at the. foot of the West-Bow,at the head whereof dwelt Major Weir. This° I|;;gentlewoman, a substantial merchant’s wife, wasvery desirious to hear him pray, much being spokenof his utterance; and for that end spoke to some ofher neighbours, that when he came to his own house,she might he sent for. This was done, hut he& # irpl>could never be persuaded to open his mouth before, 11 r i i • i ‘i-lier; no, not to bless a cup of ale; he either remain¬ed mute, or up with his staff and away, It troubledher then ; hut I suppose both her husband and she• i . - ' ' ■■ 3 !smiles at it now.Some few days before he discovered himself, thisgentlewoman coming from the Castle-hill; whereher husband’s niece was lying-in of a child, aboutmidnight, perceived, about the Bow-head, threwoman in windows, shouting, laughing, and clap¬ping their hands. The gentlewoman went forward.,till, just at Major Weir’s door, there arose, as fromthe street, a woman about the length of two ordin¬ary females, and stepped forward. The gentlewoman, not as vet excessiveC feare.d, hid her maid10step on, if, by the lanthorn, they could see what,she was; but haste what they could, this long-legged spectre was still before them, moving herbody with a vehement cahinatipn, and unmeasur¬able laughter. At this rate the two strove for place*till the giantess came to a narrow lane in the Bow,commonly called the stinking-close, into which sheturning, and the gentlewoman looking after her,perceived the close full of darning torches, (she couldgive them no other name,) and as it had been agreat multitude of people, stentoriously laughingand gaping with tehees of laughter. This sight,at so dead a time of the night, no people being iuthe windows Lelopging the close, made her and herservant haste home, declaring all what they saw tqthe rest of the family ; but more passionately to herhusband. And though sick with fear, yet shewent the next morning with her maid, to view thenoted places of her former night’s walk, and at theclose inquired who lived there P It was answered.Major Weir. The honest couple now rejoiced,that to Weir’s devotion they never said, Amen.1 know there are some, who strenuously assert thounreasonableness of heliving such visions and ap¬paritions; but you have made them sufhciently ev¬ident from your relation foregoing. These, in allprobability, have been a presage of his approachingdeath, and of the manner of it- links and torches11i signifying an honourable interment, which perhapshad been promised to him. There was one minis¬ter in the city, that could never be persuaded tospeak with him in prison ; but no sooner was hedead, than he went to the tolbooth, and called forj his sister, who had some remorse; of whom I shallj now speak. He told her, that her brother wasburnt, and how he died, (though he saw him notj executed) as I heard from himself. She believedtil nothing of it; but after many attestations, he asked,llil where his staff was? for, it seems, she knew thati his strength and life lay therein. He told her, it■ was burnt with him. Whereupon, notwithstand-jijing of her age, she nimbly, and in a furious rage,131 fell on her knees, uttering words horrible to be ra¬il niembe red. And in rising up, as she was desired,iher raging agony closed with these words, “ O Sir,I j I know he is with the devils ; for with them he liv-■hed.” She entreated that minister to assist her, andif attend her to her death, which, at her violent im¬portunity, he yielded unto, though it was not hisii course to wait upon condemned persons. Whatl;he said in private to himself, he says, must die| with him. She avouched, that from her being six-t teen years of age, to her fiftieth, her brother had theiincestuous use of her, and then loathed her fop her| age. She was pretty old at this time ; and he, whenhe died, was about seventy. He asked her. If everI:she was with child to hiia ? Site declared, with greatconfidence, he hindered that by means abominable :which she, beginning to relate, the minister stop*- -ped her. Some bystanders were desirous to hearthe rest; but says he, -M Gentlemen, the specula¬tion oi‘ this iniquity is in itself to be punished.- -"olIn often and returned visits, site was interrogated,If she had any hand in her brother's devilry P; Shedeclared but in a passive way; and gave this for aninstance: A fiery chariot or coach, as she called;it, coming to his door, at broad day, a stranger in¬vited him and her to go and visit a friend in Dal¬keith, a small town about six miles from .Edinburgh,They both entered, and went forward in their vis¬its at which time (says she) one came and whis¬pered something- in his eaiy which affected him.They both returned after the same manner thatthey had gone out. And Weir, going aftop to makestone visits, told them he had strong apprehensions,,that that day* the King’s forces were routed,, atWorcester; which, within a few days, was con¬firmed by post. She affirmed, that none,saw thecoach but themselves. The devil hath wrought,far greater farlies in his time thqn this—She knew,much of the enchanted staff; for by it he was en¬abled to pray ; to commit filthiness, not to be named j,yea even to reconcile neighbours, man and wife,when at variance. She oft hid it from him ; andIbwcavise witljfjtst it he •c'ould do nothing, he wouldihi'eaten and vow to discover her ineeBt.y vi'earingwhich, she would deliver it again. Beingasked thetl-tiuse of her much spinning, which she-was latnoits,|Coi>, she denied any assistance'from the Qevil,. ; hut)tonnd she had an extraordinary faculty therein, farbovte ordinary spinsters; yet owned, that when.sheante home, after her being abroad* she found themvos more yarn on her wired than she left: and thater weaver could not make cloth thereof, the yamreakhig, or falling from the loom.——Once therefe a'Stfanger to Iter, while she was -at her wheelyltd proposed a way to her to1 make herorichjnfodHey both lived almost upon‘alms. The way whtIris; “ Stand up and say; alf crosses and cares geAt Of ihte''hbusdl#’'' She ansWered, 'M’G’od'fcwhidjjsdy dhat}11 hrtt let thtenl ’hh welcome When (addndSHHeitf/' ''Aftei'Wd ^’(liree 'visitSdrfone, sfe;ked‘iihiS'JsBffetnger,; 5ahere‘she"ddeki?* She replied;IdThte’1 Petterrow, ’ a Bftle^t in1 the suburbsb otltfladK^ity;;''hdt 'fittdhig'Meither'feWOh a hoU^-friA'mi a-tfofflaii,JT'j'ud^Mp^id9^, ik%tf6 xHeWrf;the UP HV h*rbfh eP ^ iibqiVa in tan ces V iHfTknUd heh'rVdSfHillaVlfy'w'fr1^ (Hd'flgvif. 9 i ’} ..stnoo^ mt'' ddfs'pioVerty 'mihds me of a wiz’/.ard 'akciised aiiVl“itf ’Z^flanS, before named foit'xfftbhcrafr;* Jdi'eral yeads ago, called Buggy to a tiick-iiaifi'et;1 Wko, beiagfd''filher, had a trick, at nttyTinte 'Wllehhungry at ssa, to cast ont his line, and would, out jof Neptune's lowest kitchen, bring cleverly up fish 1well boiled and roasted ; and his comrades, by a Inatural courage, would make a merry meal thereofnot questioning who was cook. He had anotherpiece of art, at any time of the year, or in greatstorms, logo up to a hill near his own house, where¬upon there was a deep pit, out of which, with hislines, he drew up codlings or keiling for his provis¬ion, which never man could but himself. This his¬tory is true, being yet to be seen in the criminalliooks of that country—She was asked anent herparents P She was persuaded her mother was awitch ; “ for the seorelest thing that either I my¬self, or any of the family could do, when once amark appeared on her brow, she could tell it them,though done at a great distance. Being demand¬ed what sort of a mark it was ? She answered, “ Ihave some such like mark myself, when I please, onmy forehead ? Whereupon she offered to uncoverher head for visible satisfaction ; the minister refus¬ing to behold it, and forbiding any discovery, wasearnestly requested by some spectators, to allowthe freedom. He yielded: She put hack her headdress, and seeming to frown, there was seen an ex¬act horse shoe shaped for nails in her wrinkles,terrible enough, I assure you, to the stoutest be¬holder. In the morning before her execution, she15toll the minister, she resolved to die with all theshame she could, to expiate, under mercy, her(shameful life; this he understood to he an ingenu-;ous confession of her sins in opposition to her broth¬er’s despair and desperate silence, to which he did(encourage her. At her parting with him, she gave|him hearty thanks for his pains ; and shaking hishands, offering to kiss them, she repeated the sameijwords which he hade her perform. Ascending upfhe ladder, she spoke somewhat confusedly of herI'Jsins, of her brother and his enchanting staff; andfjwilh a ghastly countenance, beholding a multitudeof spectators, all wandering, and some weeping, sheispake aloud, “ There are many here thisday, wond-itdc-ring and greeting for me, but alas! few mournfor a broken ;” at which words, many seemedijangry : some called to her to mind higher concerns;uond I have heard it said, that the preacher declar-jltd, he had much ado to keep a composed counten-lihnce. The executioner falling about his duty, she[^prepares to die stark-naked ; then, and not before,ft were her words relating to shame understood: thehangman struggled with her to keep on her clothes,lliiid she struggled with him to have them off. Atl last he was forced to throw her over openfaced,i which afterwards he covered with a cloth. Soi much from the gentleman that gave me this infor-i nation; to which I shall add, that this is not pub-10lived with a design to reflect upon men of this o.thtel persuasion, far he it. The' devil can eonntsrfeit what religion he pleases, and ordinarily a goonone. True religion can never softer any prejndictfrom a hypocrite’s wearing a cloak of it, more thanthe good angels can softer a stain by Satan’s trans¬forming himself into an angel of light. The devihath his laekies and pages with Christ’s livery upoithem. Was not Judas, who was hut one of tintwelve, a vile hypocrite ? It is a wonder, wheriBthere are a thousand professing Christ in a congregation, that a hundred of them are not as had. Higlistering cloak of religion dazzled all men’s eyesthis was needful. Foul faults must have a cloalto cover them. The apostle Jude speaks of sormthat go after Sarko’s heteras, which may he understood, not only of that sin mentioned, Rom, i. 27hut one of another sort of flesh, not to be named!Here was n demonstration* proving evidently thatthere is a God, viz. by the terrors of his conscience1It is evident also, there is a devil that hurries memon into sin. He had this expression to two ministers that came to see hirn in prison ; there was nitemptation which the devil could propose to him;hut he was capable to accept of it. It is evideoalso, there is either an explicit compact belweersome men and the devil; horrible sins covered willreligion bring utter despair at last. Desperationijit hell in {jomemen aa well as devilo ai«injocmented before the tifne. ,Let us not couot theless of religion, that it is made a cloak for coveringlin ; Jet us beware that such a man’s fall prove notneck-break to us ; let US idolize no man for hisESession, or that he i%of this or that persuasion,if such a party : let riio man rest in a bare pro-ion of religiou. Men in compel with the devil,ii(.iay he assisted, hoth to preach and pray. TheillUvil’s servants are well rewarded at thejast. Pvo-Fliession and practise must go together j a clinkingi nrofesiou, with an unbridled tongue, is a vain re*pigion. “ Pure religqn, and undefiled before-ujod and,the pather.,* isf tft^ifit the fatherless andi!|ihe widow’s in their affliction ; and for a man fopi himself.unspotted prom, tlini'tforld.” ,L nifj..Major Weir was burnt betweem Kdiubiugh andith, at a place called the Gallowlee, on Ihursdayhe Uth of April 1076. . :;\uU, Vt' \ l i|J IVonderful discoverij of Murder by an Apparition.About the .year of the. Lord 1032, near untoTester in the street, there lived one Walker, aroom an of good estate, and a widower, who had a/ouug woman called Anna: Walker to his kiuswornari, that kept his house, who was by the neigh-/0iir« suspected to be with <-hild ; and was, towards18 Ithe dark of the evening, one night sent away witljMark Sharp, who was a collier, or one that diggej]coals under ground, and who had keen horn i'Blackburn-hundred in Lancashire, and so she wanot heard of for a long lime, and no noise or HttSwas made about her. In the winter time, onJames Graham, being a miller, and living twmiles from the place where Walker lived, was onnight alone very late in the mill grinding cornand about twelve or one o’clock at night he camdown the stairs, from having been putting corn iithe hopper, the mill-doors being shut there stoola woman upon the midst of the floor, with her haiabout her head, hanging down and all bloodywith five large wounds on her head. He beinjmuch affrighted and amazed, began to bless himself; and at last asked her who she was, and whashe wanted? To whom she answered, “ I am th»spirit of such a woman, who lived with Walker'and being got with child by him, he promised tusend me to a private place, where I should be wellook’d to, until I was brought to bed, and well re¬covered, and then I should come home again, antkeep his house. And accordingly,” said the ap¬parition, “ I was one night late, sent away withone Mark Sharp, who upon a muir (naming a plainwhich the miller knew) slew me with a pike, suchas men dig coals withal, and gave me these five19I wounds, and after threw my body into a coal piti hard by, and hid the pick under a bank; and hisshoes and stockings being bloody, he endeavouredto wash them, but seeing the blood would not wash|out, he hid them there.” And the apparition fur¬ther told the miller, “ That he must be the manjto reveal it, or else that she must still appear and,I haunt him.” The miller returned home, very sadIaud heavy, and spoke not one word of what he hadseen, but shunned as much as he could to stay inlillthe mill after night without company, thinkingthereby to escape the seeing again that frightfulapparition. But notwithstanding, one night whenit began to be dark, the apparition met him again,jjand seemed very fierce and cruel; and threatenedliihim, that if he did not reveal the murder, she|would continually pursue and haunt him : Yet forill this, he concealed it, until some few' nights he-Ibre Christmas; when being, soon after sunset,ealking in his garden, she appealed again, andhen so threantened him, and affrighted him, thatlie faithfully promised to reveal hy the next moni-llS-In the morning he went to a magistrate, andade the whole matter known, with all the circum-tances : And diligent search being made, the bodyras found in a coal pit, with five wounds in thelead, and the pick, and shoes and stockings, yetbloody, in eve'ry cirftamstfince as the apparition hadrelated to the miller. Whereupon Walker andand Sharp were both apprehended, but would conless nothing. At the assise following, viz. at Durham, they were arraigned, found guilty, condemn¬ed, and executed; but would never confess the fact,’There are many persons yet alive that can remem-lher this strange murder ; and the discovery of it ;.jfor it was, and sometimes yet is, as much discoursed of in the North of England as any thing that'almost hath ever been heard of, and the relation rwas printed, though now not to be gotten.Strange pranks played ly (lie Dee// at TVuodslocliin England.The commissioners, October 13, 1649, with(heir servants, being come to the manor-lioi^s^jthey took up their lodging in the king’s own rooxnsjthe bed-chamber, and v\;ithdrawing-room : the,former whereof they also made their kitchen ; thelcouncil-hall their brew-house; the chamber of pre^sence, their place of sitting to dispatch business,^and a wood-house of the dining-room, where theylaid the wood of that ancient standard in the HighPark, known of all by the name of the King’s Oak,which (that nothing might remain that had the mamof King affixed to it) they digged up by the r.ooi.%October | 4-th ;ind ] 5th, they had little disturb,nce ; but on the 16th there came, as they thought,Minewhafc iutt> the bed-chamber where two of thenomrnisstoners and their servants lay, in the shape of. n dog, tvhich;going .under their beds, did, as it were,ijjBawf their bed cords; but on the morrow findingi hem whole, and a .quarter of beef, which lay onhe,ground untouched, they began to entertain other'S&hts. , auoeieq ?‘l> -Octohw 17, Something,^to their thinking, i’e-Srowed all tho wood of the King’s Oak, out of theiningrroom to the presence-chamber, and hnrledthe chairs and stools up and down that room : Fromhence it. came into the two chambers where the;on?missi,qners and their servants lay, and hoistedp the feet of their beds, so much higher thanheir heads, that they thought they should havelieeh turned over and over, and then let them falli'Hown with such force, that their bodies reboundedrdm the bed a good distance, arid then shook theedstekds so violently, that themselves confest theirdies were sore with it.October 18. Something came into the bed-f (chamber, and walked up and down, and fetchingthe warming-pan out of the withdrawing-room,tjjmndfi SO much noise, that they thought five bellscould not have made more. And Octohter 19th,Trenchers were thrown up and down the dining¬-room, and at them Who lodged there; one of them■2‘2being wakened, put forth his head to see what withe matter, but had trenchers thrown at it.October 20th. The curtains of the bed in tiwithdrawing-room were drawn to and fro, and tbed-stead, much shaken, and eight great pewtdishes, and three dozen of trenchers, thrown abothe bed-cbamber again. This night they al:thought a whole armful of the wood of the King:Oak were thrown down in their chambers, butthat in the morning they found nothing had beet, femoved. I tOctober 21st. The keeper of their ordinary*and his hitch lay in one of the rooms with them,which night they were not disturbed at all. BuiOct. 22d, Though the bitch kennelled there again, ito whom they ascribed their former night’s rest,both they and the bitch were in a pitiful taking.tht 'bitch opening bnl once, and that with a whining :fearfnl yelp.October 23. They had all their clothes pluck’d 1off them in the withdrawing room, and the bricksfell out of the chimney into the room.On the 24th, They thought in the dining-room*that all the wood of the King’s Oak had beenbrought thither, and thrown down by their bed¬side ; which being heard by those of the withdraw'ing-room, one of them rose to see what was done,fearing indeed that his fellow commissioners haliibeen killed, but found no such matter. Where-tipon returning to his bed again, he found two orhree dozen of trenchers thrown into it, and hand¬somely covered with the bed clothes.October 25. The curtains of the bed in theiwithdrawing-room were drawn to and fro, and the-stead shaken as before ; and in the bed-chamber,s flew about so thick (and yet not one lozen ofe chamber windows broken) that they thought itjliad rained moneyj whereupon they lighted cand¬les ; but, to their grief, they found nothing butglass.-j October 29. Something going to the windowopened and shut it; then going into the bed cham¬ber, it threw great stones, for half an hour’s time,:i»ome whereof lighted on the high-bed, others on the'Iruckle-bed, to the number in all of above fourscore.This night there was also a very great noise, as ifiibrty pieces of ordnance had been shot off together.At two several knocks, it astonished all the neigh¬bouring dwellers, which is thought might have been||eard a great way off. During these noises, whichgyere heard in both rooms together, both commis-j,oners and their servants were struck with so great!t»rror, that they cried out one to another for help :hereon one of them recovering himself out of a.range agony he had been in, snatched a sword,tndhad like to have killed one of his brethren com-hg ont of his bed in his shirt, whom he took for24Jithe spirit that did the inischiei’. Howeverlength they got all together, yet the noise contimi'ed so great and terrible, and shook the walls smuch, that they thought the whole manor wouLhave fallen on their heads. One of them lighteia candle, and set it between the two chambers i,the door-way, on which another fixing his eyes, sathe similitude of a hoof striking the candle and cadlestick into the middle of the bed-chamber, aafterwards making three scrapes on the snuff to pait out. Upon this, the same person was so bold ato draw his sword, but he had scarce got it outwhen there was another invisible hand had hold t;t too, and tugged with him for it; and, prevailingstruck him so violently* that he was stunned witthe blow.Then began violent noises again, insomuch tinthey called to one another, got together, and weninto the presence-chamber, where they said prayer;notwithstanding all which, the thundering noise stiicontinued in other rooms. After this, Noveinb#3d, they removed their lodging over the gate; annext day. Being Sunday, went to Ewelm, whenhow they escaped, the authors of the relation knenot. But returning on Monday, the devil (for thiwas the name they gave their nightly guest) le;(hem not unvisited, nor on the Tuesday followingwhich was the last day they stayed.rms.