»1 he IVGt'itj Grave*. Heaving of the Lead*Far, fir at Sea,HADDINGTON'Printed by G. Milier u£ ,Moie Shop nay be bpg, a yuktjr of VjPamphiets. BallatSs Childrens’"Boofcs, pTOTres, Catecli.ftrjs,WHOLESALE nr.id RErAil,*   l l ' I ?( OF SCOTLAND rJu;.flf4The Tempest.CEA^E, rude B neas, b!ufl’ring railer, »i_iil yt landunen 1! to m* ;'M. iFmates hear a hi other taiforSing the dan^trs ot the i-:a :.From Lou.-ding billows frit in motion.When th< diftant viLir wi cis rife ;To the nmpeft troubled ocean.Where the leas co. tena with fliies.- 11^ . iHark, t^e boattwain hoaritly bawling,ii> Cupfail Ihe t' and haul-yards /land ; IDo.vn top-galiiius—qu.ck-—-be haulingDown your (lay-fa Is, hand, boys h-md. INow n freilnns, fu the braces.The Jee-top lail-ih.cets let go ; ,.Luff, boys, luff, don’t make wry faces.Up your topdails nimbly clue.Now, all yo:; on down beds fpo.ting.Fondly lock'd in beauty’s arms }*-)Round us roars the tempeft louder,Think whar fears our minds enthral;Ha der vet, it ftill blows harde r.Hark ! again the boatfwain’s cal!.The top-fail yard point to the wind, boys.See all dear to reef each courle ;Let the for^-fheet go, doht mind, boys,Tho’ the weather fhbnid be worfe.i Fore and aft the fprit fui yard get.Reef the mizen, lee ail clear;i Hands up, each p’-eventer-brade fet,Man the fore-yard, cheer, lads, cheer.I Now the dreadful thunder's roaring.Peals on peals contending cl ail i;On cut heads Scree rain fills pouring,In our eyes blue lightning* flifli:* One wide water ;i.ll around, us,Ail above us one black sky ;, Different deaths at once furround us,Hark ! what means yon dreadful cry !The foremafl's gone, cries ev’ry tongue out.O’er the lee twelve feet brvcdeck.;A leak beneath the chcfiree's Ip rung oat,Call all hands to clear the wreck;I( 4 )Qulr k the kiu’.-yavds cm to piece*,Come my hearts be flour and bold ;Plumb the well, the 1 ak incteaUs,Four feet water’s in the hold.While o'er the fhip wild waves are beating, lWe for wives and children mourn ;A’as! from hence there’s no retreating,Alas! to them there’s no return !Still the leak is gaining on us,Both chain pumps are choak’d below.Heaven have mercy here upon us.For only that can fave us now.On the lea-bcam is the land boys,Let the guns o’erboard be th own •To the pump come, ev’ry hand, boys,See our miV n-maft is gone jThe leak we’ve found, it ca nor pour faff,We’ve lighten’d her a foot or more.: 1 ftUp, and rig a jury foremaft.She rights, Ihe rights, boys wear off fhore.Now once more on jovs we^e fhinkirg,Since kind fortune’s lav’d o r lives;Come—the can, boyr—Jew be drinkingio our fwcathcams and our wives ;-| Fill it up—-about fi-.ip wheel it,Clore to the lips the brimmer join-i Where's the tempeft now ? who feels it rNone—-our danger’i drown’d in wine.The Wat’ry Grave*WOULD you hear a fad (lorv of woe.That rears from a ftofce mightprovoke,.; *Tis concerning a ta^ y u muft know,I As honed as fe’er bitcuit broke.| His name was Ben Block, of all men'1 he m 'ft true, the moft kind, the moftbrave,! But harlh treated by fortune, for BenIn his prime found a wat’ry grave.H s place no one ever knew more,His heart was all kindnefs and love ;Tho’ on duty an eagle he’d (bar.His nature had moft of the dove.He lov’d a fair maid named Kate;His father, to intereft a Save,Sent, him far from love, where hard fatePlung’d Fim deep in the wai’ry grave.r ( « )A curie on all flandercms tongues,A. fa’.ie friend his mild nature abus’d ;And fweer Kate of the vileft of wrongs.To poifon Ben’s plealure. accufrd :That fhe r.ever had truly b'en kind;That falie were thetok! ns flie gave;Thar (Tie Korned him, and with’d he mightfindla ihe ©c-an a wat’ry grave.Too fure from this 6ank’rous elf.The venom acconpliflvd its end ;Ben, all truth and honour bimfelf,Sufpt<5ted no fraud in his friend';On the yard while fulpended in air,A Icofe to his (orrows he gave,Take thv with c.icd he, f ile cruel fair.And plung’d in a wai’ry grave.Heaving of the Lead.FOR England when, with fav’ring g^Ir,Our gallant fhip up channel fleer’d,And feu,tiding under eafy fti!.The high blue weftern land appear’d.^ 7 ^To heave the lead the leaman fpxung.And to the pilot cheerlv fang,By the deep—nine! *And bearing up to gain the port,Some well' known object kept in viewAn abbey-tower, an harbour.fort.Or beacon to the vefiel true ;While oft tire lead the feamcn dung.And to the pilot chterl'y fu g, **‘ By the mark—liven VAnd as the mucli-Iovll (Itore v/e hear,1With tranfport we beh id the roofWhere dwelt a frieze, or partner dear,Oi fai.h and love a , at chief-, proof.The lead once more the fearuen Bung,And to thewatchiul pi at fang4 (Quarter—iefs—live l*to her birth the ship draws nigh ;We shorten fat!—she tee's the ude—* Stand clear the cabl~ V i the cry— ,The anchor’s gone ; vre fately ride—The watch is f.t—aod tho ught the night.We tear the f-amtn with dehght. P.ociaun, ‘ Ad’s well 1’Far, far at Sea,?r I "*WAS night, when the bell had;toldtwelve,A ad poor Sufan was laid on her pillovv.In her ear. whifper’d fomc fleeting tivc^our love now lies toll on a blllov/Far, far at fca.AH was dark, when (he womj out of breath,N or an objed tier fears could uncover;Ad was lliil as the fdcnce of death,Save fancy, which painted her loverFar, far at Tea,«So she whupSi’d a prayer—clos'd her eyes.But the phantom nili haunted her pillowj"While in terrors she echoed her cries^As ftruggi.ng he funk in a billow,Jfa>y far at fea.F I N I Ss• •’ " ' ' 1 - '- j d