NTERLOCUTORiACOMEDY,o»ONE ACT, IN VERSE;ASCRIBED TOALEXANDER PENNECUIK,M.D.EDINBURGH:EMNTED BY J. MORREW, COWGATE,I803.Dramatis Persona.1 A Knight, Just-Ass of Peace, andSir John, '> Sheriff Depute of the county ofJ Peebles*.Mr Grue, the Procurator Fiscal.J ult, the Maid of the Inn.Pi ace, the inside of the Inn at Peebles.Time, two hours in the evening.* See a Letter to a Knight, who shot at theAuthor's doves, and killed them on the Dovecot*head> among Dottor Pennecuik’g P.oems.THEINTERLOCUTOR:AC 0 MED r.SCENE FIRST.A dark Passage and Stair in the Intiy at Pcebh. j,Sir John enters softlyy a tiptoe.Sir JoHtf.Did they mark my fine air when I walk,How sentimentally I can talk;How much, upon nothing I can say;These women, to me, would soon give way.When I think how in words I abound,And that my decisions are so sound.Upon roy soul, I’m quite thunderstruck,At their grols blindnefs, and my bad luck,—If with my eyes fhe saw my figure,She would not treat me with such rigour,As to slight me, almost past bearing.By not once giving me a hearing,Though I steal from passage to passage,And watch her course at every message—If she were not as dull as an ass,She’d be as kind as my looking-glass ;Like it, at least, return smile for smile.And think »he was honour’d all the while.C 4 )Landlady, without*July! go bring the kettle and stand?Why don’t you notice what 1 command ?—»Still trifling with that fellow, alone!—Has any one seen the Knight, Sir John?—I wish the coxcomb may not be lost!Of such another we’d ne’er again boast;So just a judge, so batter’d a beau,With so little substance, and much show.July, ’without.Poor Just-ass ! O, he’ll be gone to rest,So ’bout him you need not be distrest.In some nook he’ll be taking repose,To relieve from the weight of his nose;It, and his head, on some place to lay;Sure, plaguily, ’tis oft’ in his way.*Sib John.Zounds! I’ll betake myself to this Case;They’ll not search for me in such a place/ {Tie steals into, and seats himself, ’with elegantanguishing dignity, in the press under the sjair.')If July comes past, to her alone,To her I'll try to make myself known :May-hap even from such a snug recessMy suit may meet with greater success—Suppose now, till my sweet creature come,So’s not to be heard, a tune I hum ;But lest too much I stretch my shrill throat,I believe, though, I’d much better not,* See m Lady's character of her lover, £dc. inDoflor Pennecuik’s Poems.( 5 )Till I get out of this my bird’s cage,—Oh ! ere she’s here, ’twill be a long age.—Lud!—Women too are so monstrous queer!’Tis birds, they say, make love bv the ear :They wonder how 1 can bear about.Such a large crooked. Toucan like snout;Cry, singing, fool! becomes not a judge—Hist! hist! who comes here ?—hist!—let’s notbudge!SCENE SECOND.Enter Jui.r, pvffivg and blowing as she passes,with a large kettle and stand.Sir the box, (with alow voice, jJuly '.-—July my dear !—What’s your haste !litre Tm !—Here I’m !—In dark eoi aer plac’d!O Lud !—Ohon !—Oh ! favour me kettle !By thy weight at this place make her settle!—.She’s gone !SCENE THIRD.Sir John, solas.Still, though, I will here remain,Till, unloaded, she returns again —Oh!—alas!—Oh !—anee!—Hee i—How!—Wow!——I hear her coming, puffing not nowLike fat broken v/inded mart—no wheeze No cough—now, reliev’d, she moves at ease.SCENE FOURTH.July enters, returning, without the kettle andstand.( 6 )Sir John.July !—r’Scleath !—July ! or ass, or broom.More you’d heed, when passing to a room.Jury, (StOpprHg.J’3 life!—-Just- Ass o'-Peace 1—Is that you there ’Sir John.Yes in this dark press behind the stair.Where you throw old besoms,boots,and shoes.—Come here, and tell me what is the news i—Your opinion of things in general ?—Your stories? 1 know you’ve got leveral.July.My stars!—In that nasty black box there !—Good b’ye Just ass !—i’ve no tilde to spare.3ir, you sit with so much ease and grace,Company would but confuse the place.Sir John.My black haired beauty, with skin like snow;With plump cheeks, red as roses in blow ;With fat corpus, as sleek as a mole;O, do not leave me here in this hole IBetter than money’s t Iriend in court.Take pity and you’ll get favour for.'t 1 'Private motives are always my guides,And for you, right or wrong, I’ll decide.You need net doubt it, though 1 mentionThe purity of my intent,on,For this 1 hold up, by way of blind,Ceil when nothing less directs nay mind,( 7 )July.WhatU—A.re you afraid to be alone?—I fear you’ve been unjust to some one;Have played the villain, to please your spite,.And, through envy, done what was no:; right..Indeed you own you betray your trust;That oft you are purposely unjust.Keep me both from your favour and court IThus with honour and justice to sport.—.But we’ll hear, if you meet with mischance.And send to your hub’ for assistance.Mean time, of conscience to drown the voice,,just-Ass, were this a fit place for noise,You might set up a strain, to your mind,As I’m told you’re of the singing kind;But, as ’twould alarm the house to bray,You had best remain, quiet, there and pray.—I hear your Fiscal coming this way!Would you like him you here to surprife,With your long nose, lean jaws, and dead eyesSir Johx.My Ewe-necked staring Procu’tor here! And I in this coal-hole !—Run ! my dear Rather than that grue should find, should startOr hunt me from hence like hare or hart,To furnish diversion, and a chace.To the beagles an i bitches of the place,I’d for a post lick fifty spittle?,To feed my envy, lo=e my victuals,Be stung by my conscience to the quick.And then, tor inju.niee, join )ld NickAnd so, my dear, 1 wish you good b’ye!Finds ibis Case too small f or two m July ;bitts process till some future box day.( 8 )JULT.Whunaby, if in your box you’ll stay,I’ll bring a candle, to let you see.Sir John.To light my fiscal to you and mo !—Of it he’d soon make a pretty joke.By a glimpse, should he any thing smoke ! —No—Let’s do without help when we can ;I’ll soon follow a much wiser plan,By which he shall neither see nor hear;Neither (ball I in the scheme appear.—Shoes off. I'll steal to a room up stairs,I’ th’ dark.(takes off bis shoes JJuly.But you’ve not yet said your prayers.Sib John.I’ll not do that ’till guilt I renounce,And get a discharge for all at once;. One long prayer will then clear the account,.When we know, exact, the full amount (coming out of the Box* JLud! I’ve cut my shins on these sharp coals 1July.So much good, from being found in such holes.Had you allowed me to bring a light,Your legs had still been heal, clean, and right.ifSir John.% I hear the grue, as fure’s I’m alive 1- ( 9 )July.Hurry up stairs then ere he arrives.But ’gainst the doors drive not your long nose !On the steps break not your shoeless toes !(IVbilsi July speaks, the Knight hurries up stairswith his shoes in his band, and disappears.)SCENE FIFTH.. Enter Mr Grue, the Procurator Fiscal.Mr Grub.Ha! ha! ha!—So Nosy’s left his boy.Barefooted, without or shoes or socks ;With dead shins, i’ th’ dark to get hard knocks!—.The rare Interlocutor, July,And box-day I’ll remember duly !A worthy Judge of Session truly !—As I protest he thinks himself oneThat a gown is already his own !Who in wonder’s name gave him a box:Unless he gets one, with keys and locks !By dint of selfish civility,And interested servility.July.Tut man! you forget the one he leftUnder the stair, you’re of wits bereft IAs for the gown to give him some weight,He needs it, and a wig for his pate.If you observe, though screeches an owl,It yet seems wiser than other fowl.Mr Gru*.From the passage, treasuring np each word,Your Mistress and I the whole o’erheard.( 10 )v v JJuly.You did!—’Twas love from the grave indeed !From bloodless cheeks, and brainless head! O ! I vvisli you much joy !—I hear’t spoke.Of young fiscals you’ll soon have a flock,That, the night before last, Mistress GrueBrought you two boys with little ado !Mr Grue.%Where the duce picked you up that cursed lie iFor neither a boy, nor girl, have I!—July.Mayhap ! o’ the Snipe’t has been been the wife.Mr Grue.The Snipe ! He bring a creature to life IWith thighs like the legs of a sparrow.Smoked hams wanting blood, and bones marrow.Marry—come—up ! with his withered shins,A pretty one indeed to get twins !You're hard pushed sure, when, down the water,You seek him, to father such chatter !You’d best give them to your friend up stairs;AH bis weans, ’tis said, are sent in pairs. Did you observe the shaughland legged wight,With his poker, in the yard alight ?July.What 1—He and his pimp !—Buth of themhere !—Tush!—I must go get supper, and beer.W hen they’ve done with beggars,boys,and wi ves,The peevish wretch will pester our lives,tj( 11 )As he does his family at hame.Unless toasted cheese, to fill his wame,At supper appears, tender, and fat,For him to nibble and tarrow at. Good b’ye! I can here no longer stay.Sts? process, till some future box day.( exit. JSCENE SIXTH.Mr Gruk, solus.Than obey that old maid in breeches.With his envy, spite, and fine speeches;Such a vain fool, unprincipled ass ;I’d most at this Inn door be a bass,For the use of servile footmen’s feet.Besmeared with the filth of every street.——Fine names! “ Ewe-necked, staring, Procu’tor,”Forfooth! Box, and Interlocutor,I’ll remember for that!—The rascal!Thus to abuse the honest fiscal. I think I smell the cheese for supper!Better, than walk, sit on the crupper;I hear like chops broiling on the fire !If the scrub is returned, with his squire,The cheese mite, with the long punch soker.,The slender tongs, with the straight poker;I’ll try to meet them, as if by chance,And regale myself at their expence,Whilst they laugh at the Interlocutor.- Scoundrel! “ Ewe-necked, staring, Procu’tor.”( exit-JFINIS.