THEHISTORYOFJOHN CHEAPTHECHAPMAN.CONTAININGAbove a hundred merry Exploits, doneby him and his fellow traveller, Drou.thy Ton', a sticket Shaver,J->') IN TWO PARTS.EDINBURGH;Printedibr the Booksellers in Scotland,HIsfOA" OXJOHN CHEAP,THE CHAPMAN,PREFACE.JOHN CHEAP the Chapman, was a** very comigsl short thick fellow, witha broad face and long nose : both lameand lazy, and something lecherous a-mong the lasses. He chose rather tosit idle than work at any time, as he wasa hater of hard labour. No man need¬ed to offer him cheese and bread, afterhe curst it lie would not have it; for hewould blush at bread and milk when hun¬gry, as a beggar doth at a bawbee. Hegot the name of John Cheap the Chap¬man, by selling 20 needles for a penny,&nd twa leather laces for a farthing.He swore no oaths but one, whichwas, Let me never sin.He used no imprecations, but let meneither cheat nor be cheated, but rath¬er cheat than be cheated.He gave bad counsel to none but chil¬dren, to burn the bone combs, that theirmother might buy another when he( 4 )1MRT I.THE FOLLOWING RELATION WAS TAKENFROM HIS OWN MOUTH VERBATIM.TJOHN CHEAP, by chance, at some■^certain time, doubtless against mywill, was born at the Hottom, near Rub-mydock Mill. My father was a Sci.tchHighlander, and my mother a York¬shire wench, but lionest, which causesme to be of a mongrel kind ; I mademyself a chapman when very young, inhopes of being rich when I became old ;but forttme was fickle; and so was I,for I had not been a chapman above twodays, until l began to consider the dan¬ger of deep ditches, midden dubs, bit¬ting dogs, bogles in barns, bangster wivesami weet sacks, and what comfort is it,sa>s I, to lie in the cow’s oxter, thelength of a cold winter night; to sit be¬hind backs tiii the kail be a’ cuttied up,and then to lick colly’s leavings.My first journey was through oldKilpatrick, 1 got no meat nor money,until the evening, 1 began to ask forlodging, then every wife to get me a Way,would either give me a cogful of kali,or a piece of cake, Well, says l to my¬self, if this be the way, I shall begin inthe morning, and ask for lodging, orany time when I am hungry. Tims Icontinued going from house to house,until my belly was like to burst, and mypockets could hold no more; at last Icame to a farmer’s house, but thinkingit not daik enough to prevail for lodg¬ing, 1 sat down upon a stone at the endof a house till day lignt would go away *and as I was getting up to go into thehouse, out comes the goodwife, and satdown at the end of the stone, I beingat the other, there she began to makeoff her water with full force, which Ibore with very modestly till near an end;then she made the wind follow withsuch force, as made, as I thought thevery stone I leaned upon to move, whichmade me burst out into laughter ; thenup gets the wife, and runs for it ; I fol¬lowed hard after into the house, and asI entered the door, 1 heard the good-man saying, Ay, ay, goodwife, What’sthe haste, you run so fast.No more passed, until I addressed thegoodman for quarters ^ to which he&nswer( )etl, Indeedlad, webnenae beds but three,my wife and I, oursells twa, and thetwa bits o* little anes, Willy and Jennylie in ane, the twa lads* our twa servantmen, Willy Black and Tam Ive, lie inanither, auld Maggs, my mirher, andthe lass Jean Tirram lie thegither, andthat fills them ak O but, says 1, good-man, there is some of them fuller thanothers, you may let me lie with yourmither and the lass ; l shall lie headsand thraws wi’ them, and keep on mybreeks. A good keep me, quo’ the lass,frae a’ temptations to sin, altho’ thoube but a callan, heth I’ll rather lie wi*San nock Gardner. Hute awa, quo* theauld wife, the poor lad may lie on a bat¬tle e’ strae beyond the fire. No, no,cries the good wife, he’s no be here thenight, or Pse no be here. Dear good-wife, said I, what ails you at me ? If youwill not let me stay, you’ll not hinderme to go where 1 please. Ay, ay, saidshe, gae where you like ; then I got inbeyond the fire, beside the goodman.Now, said I goodwife, I like to be here.A deil be here, an’ ye be here the night,said she. Ho, ho, said 1, but I’m herefirst, and first corn’d first serv’d, good*yours, you’ll hae room for him too. Ye: thief like vviddifu’, said she, are ye even-i ing me to be sib to the foul thief; ’tisweel kend I am corn’d o’ good honestt folks; it may be so, goodwife, said 1,:! but ye look rather the other way, when; ye would lodgd the devil in your house,i! and ca’ a poor chapman out to die, suchi| a stormy night as this. What do ye say,i| says she, there was nae a bonnier nighti since winter came in than this, O good-1 wife, what are you saying, do you notmind when you and I was at the eastend of the house, such a noise of windand water was then ; a wae worth thefilthy body, said she, is not that m ev¬ery part ? What, said the goodman, awat weel there was nae rain when lcame in. The wife then shoots me out.and bolted the door behind me. Well,said I, but I shall be through betweenthy mouth and thy nose ere the morrow.It being now so dark, and I, a stranger,could see no place to go to, went intothe corn-yard, but finding no loose strawI fell a drawing one of their stacks,sheaf by sheaf, until l pulled out athreaveor two, and got into the hole myself,■ S, ; ) ■'; ' ; .where 1 lay as warm as a pie. The good-man in the morning, .perceiving the heapof corn ^heaves, came running to carryit away, and stop up the hole in thestack, wherein I lay with some of thesheaves j so with the steigling of thestraw, and him steigling to others, cur¬sing the thieves who had done it, swear¬ing they had stole six threaves of it; Ithen skipped out of the hole, ho, ho, saidI, goodman, you're not to bury me alivein your stack ; he then began to chideme, vowing to keep my pack for the da¬mage I had done; whereupon I tookhis servants witnesses he had robbed me,when hearing me urge him so, he gaveme my pack again, and off I came tothe next house, and told the whole ofthe story.My next exploit was near Carluke,between Hamilton and Lanark ; whereon a cold stormy night, came to a lit¬tle town with four or five houses in it ;*I went twice through it, but none ofthem would give me the credit to standall night among their horses, or yet tolie in their cow’s oxter: at last I pre¬vailed with the wife, if her husbandwaswilling to let me stop, she would,am! sent me to the bawi to ask him ;ami meeting him at the banMoois : ut-tying in stMe for hU horses, , 1 feoirf. h*mhi- wife had granted to let me stay, ifhe was not against it, io which lie an.swered, “if I 4ho<itd he hi his middendib, i should get no quarters from himthat night j a'whygn iasty idle vtliians,turns a* io be chapmen, comes throughthe Tdtitry fashing flunks, itv seekingquarters j the m xt day ye'll be gauntvi’ a pomhereil tierriwig, and a watchat your arie, anti winria lit fouk standafora your chop door, ye'il bi sae sail-Qy,” 'j hearing thus my sentence fromthe good man, expected no relief, butto lie without \ yet i perceived whenhe came out of the barn, he only drewthe door behind him, So when howas gone, I slips into the barn, and bythe help of one of the kippjes, climbs upt-He mom--and there dives down amongthe sheaves, and happed myself all overso that l lay as warm as the gpodmanhimself. But in the morning, long be¬fore day, two fellows came into the barnand fell a threshing, so that by theirdisturbance I could sleep no more; atlast 1 got up, with my hair hanging o*( 10 )ver my face, and 'vben he t'.iat stoodon the opposite side perceived me, Imade my eyes to roil and wfayed myface in a frightful manner, so that thepoor fellow supposed he had seen thedevil, or something as ill, gave a roar,as if he had been sticked, and out at thedoor he runs ; the other following after,him, crying, Wa’ Johnny man, what didyou see? O! Sandy, Sandy, the deil’son the top of the mou, sheavling hismouth at me; I’ll no be sae weel thismonth man, my heart’s out o* its hool,wow but yon be a fearful like face in¬deed, it would fright ony living crea¬ture out o* their senses.I hearing the fear they were in, criedto them not to be frighted, for' wasnot the devil, but a poor chaprmm, whocould net get quarters the last night;a foul fa’ thy carcase, Sir, for our jockis through the midden dib, dirt and a’thegither ; he who went last came backagain, the other ran into the house andtold what he had seen. The goodmanand his wife came running, he with thegrape in his hand, and she with the Bi¬ble, the one crying out, Sandy, is’t truethat the deil was in the barn ? na, na,( 11 )said she, it's but a chapman, but poofJock has gotten a fright vyi* him. Theylaugned heartily at the sport took meinto breakfast, and by this time poorJohnny was gone to bed very sick.After this, I travelled up by ♦he waterof Clyde, near the foot of Tintock hill,where I met with a sweet companion,who was an older traveller than 1, andhe gave me more information how toblow the goodwife and sleek the good-man : with him I kept company for twomonths : and as we travelled .lownTweed towards the border, we beingboth hungry^and could get nothing tobuy for the belly, we came unto a wifewho had been kirning, but she wouldgive us neither meat nor drink, nor sellso much as one halfpenny worth of hersour milk : Na, na, vsaid she, Til neithersell butter, bread, nor milk, 'tis a’ lit¬tle enough to sair my ain family : yethat’s chapmen may drink water, ye ■dinna work sair. Ay but goodwite, saidI, I hae been at Temple-bar, where Iwas sworn not to drink water if I couldget better. What do you say, said she,about 'Temple bar! a town just abouttwa-three miles ana a bittock frae this... ( 12 )ii thief ahe was to swear you there, air"it wasnae auld Willy Miller the cobler,the ill thief amther minister nor magis.tiate ever was in it a*. O hut, says theother lad, the Temple-bar he means isat London. Yea, yea, lad, an* ye bedom'd frae Lunin ye’re nae mudkleworth, London, said he, is but at hamet© the place he comes froitu A dearfflan, oh©’ she, and what© in the warlddomes n© frat ? All the w^y from Italy,where the Tope of Home dwells, eayahe, A sweet be wif us, fluoth she, torthe ihere awa is £ wttehfi andwarlocks, ddls, brownies and fairies.Wee I I wat that is true, said I, and thatthou shalt know, thou harddjeerttrdwretch, who would have people to starveor provoke them to steal, With that lrase, lifts twa or threo long;in raws, andcasting Kno^s on thtm, into the byre Iwent, and throws a knotted straw onevery cow’s st-ike, saying, thy dayswiil not be lOng. The wife followedwringing her hands, earnestly prayingfor herself and all that was hers. Ithen came out at the door, and lifted astoneandthrsw it over the house, mutter-( id )iiig some words which I knew notmyself,! an ; concluding with thesewords, ThouMonsieur Diable, brother to Beelzebub,! god ot Ekrort, take this wife's kirn, but*i ter and milk, sap and siibstaiiee, with*i out and within, so that she may die iftmiseryv as she would have others to live*The wife hearing ttai aforesaid sen-;! ienee, dapt her hands, and called outanother old woman as foolish asherselfiI who.e'nn* erying after us to come back jI hark we went where shf made us eatI hjartily of butter and eheesi j and ear*j nenly pleaded with me to go and liftI my cantrips, whieh I did, upon her pro*1 niising never to deny a hungry travel*I ler mist nor drink, whether be had mo¬ney to nay for’t or not} and never toserve the poor with the old preverb,•»(ja home to your own- parish," butgive them less or more as ye seethem iu need. This she faithfully pro¬mised to do while she lived, and withmilk we drank to the cow’s good healthand her own, not forgetting her hus-band’s and the bull’s, as the one wasgood-man of the house, and the otherof the byre j and away we came in allhaste, lest some of a more understanding-nature should come to hear of it, andfollow after us.In a few days thereafter v?e came toan alehouse in a muir, far distant fromany other, it being a sore day of windand rain, we con la not travel, but wereobliged to stay there ; and the house be¬ing very ths-ong, we could get no bedbut the servant lassess, which we wereto have for a penny worth of pins andneedles, and she was to lie with her mas¬ter and mistress But as we were go¬ing to bed, in comes three Highlanddrovers on their way from England ; thelan Hold told them, that the beds werealt taken up hut one, that two chapmenwere to lie in ; one of them swore, hisbroad sword should fail him if a chap¬man lay there that night. They tookour bed, and made us sit by the fire allnight; I put on a great many peats, andwhen the drovers were fast asleep, I puton a big brass pan full of water, andboiled their brogues therein for thespace of half an hour, then lays themas they were', every pair by themselves :so when they rose, every one began tochide another, saying, “ Hup, pup. yeshoeing a prog j” for* not one of themC 15 )’would serve a child ten years old, bein£so boiled in. The landlbrd persuadedthem their feet were swelled with thehard travelling, being so wet the lastnight, and they would go on well enough /if* they had travelled a mile or two.Now the Highlandmen laugh’d at methe night before when they lay downin the bed I was to have : but I laugh'das much to see them trot away in themorning with their boiled brogues intheir hands.PART II.WE again came to a place near Sur-T ry-lnll, where the ale was good, andvery civil usage, and our drouth beingvery great, the more we drank, the bet¬ter we loved it. Here we fell in com-pany with a Quack Doctor! who brag¬ged us with bottle about for two daysand two nights •, only when one felldrunk, we pushed and pricked UPwith a long pin tQ keep him from sleep¬ing ; he bought of our hair, and we ofhis pills, and drugs, he having as muchknowledge of the one as we had at theOther $ only I was sure, I had as muchas would set a whole parish to the mid¬den or mug all at once ; but the profit,( 16 3though all to come, went to the land'lady to make up the loss of having thelime pish'd ol the door cheeks*• But at last our money tan short, andthe landlady had no chalk not faith tocredit us, seeing by our eoats, eourage,and nonduet that wu would little mindperformance against the day of pay.fflent | so then we began to turn soberand wise behind the hand, and everyone of u§ to seek supply from another $and when m had eolleute I all the memfS we had amongst us upon the table,it was hut feurpenee halfpenny, whichwe lo’’ing!y divided among us, bmngonly three bawbees a piece \ and u drou-thy iom’s stock and mine was con.junet, we gave, the Quack again higliming stuff and his stinking mngs, amthe gave us onr goods ami pickles of hairwhich vve iquajly divided betwixt us,the whol^jol it only came to eighteenshillings and sixpence prime cost, andso we parted. 1 went for East Lothian,and Tom for the west j but my sortingcf goods being unsuitable for the coun¬try, I got little or no money next day ;and it being Saturday, I' prevailed toget staying in.a great farmer’s house,' about two miles from Haddington;the}' were all at suoper when I came in,I was ordered to go round the servants,and collect a soup out of every cog,' which was sufficient to have served threemen ; the goodwife ordered me to belaid in the barn all night, but the bullyfac’d goodman swore he had too much! stuff in it to venture me there : thegoodwife said I should not lieinthehousefor I would be o’er near the lasses’ bed;then the lads swore I should not go' with them, tor 1 was a fbrjesket likefellow, and wha kens whether he ishonest or not, he may fill his wallet wi’our claes and gang his wa’s or day light.At last I was conducted out to theswine’s stye, to sleep with an old sowand seven pigs, and there I lay for twonights. Now I began to reflect on thesour fruits of drinking, and own all themisery just chat was come upon me.in the night the ycung pigs came grunt¬ing about me very kindly, thinking Iwas some friend of then mothers cometo visit them, they gave me but littlerest, always coming kissing me withtheir cold nose, which caused me tobeat them off with my staff, which madethem make a terrible noise, so thattheir old mother came to argue the mat¬ter, running upon me with open mouthbut I gave her such a rout over herlong snout, as caused her to roar outmurder in her own language, and alar¬med the servants, who came to seewhat was the matter. I told them theirold sow was going to swallow me upalive, bid them to go and bring hermeat, which they did, and the brutebecame peaceable.On the Sabbath morning I came in¬to the house, the goodman asked me it'I could shave any; yes, said 1, but neverdid on the Sabbath-day ; I fancy, saidhe, you are some Westland Whig ? Sir,said I, you may suppose me to be whatyou think proper to-day, but yester¬night you used me like a Tory, whenyou sent me into the stye to lie :n thesow’s oxter, who is a fitter companionfor a devil than any human creature;the next abominable brute upon theearth, said I, who was forbidden to beeaten under the law, and cursed underthe gospel. Be they cursed or be theybless'd, said he, I wish 1 had anew ofthem ; but an* ye -will not take aff my, ' { IV )ii beard, ye’s get nae meat here the day,ithen said I, if ye will not give me meat: and drink for money, irtitil the Sabbathibe past, I’ll take on my wallet, and goi| along with you to the kirk, and Udl youriminister how you used me as a hog;< no, said the goodwife, you shall not1 want your crowdie, man. But my heart: being full of sorrow and revenge, a few; of them sufficed me, whereon l passedIf over that long day, and at night went1 to sleep with myold companions, whichf was not sound, being afraid of mistressI fow coming to revenge the quarrel wer had the night before.On the morning I went into the house,I the goodman ordered me the pottage-pot to lick, for, says he, it is an old pro¬perty of chapmen. Well, l had no soon¬er begun to it, than out came a greatI big mastiff dog from below the bed, andgrips me by the breast, then turns meover upon my back, and takes the pothimself. Ay, ay, said the goodman, Ithink your brother pot-licker and youcannot agree about your breakfast ?Well, said I, goodman, you said that pot-j licking was a chapman’s property, butyour dog proves the contrary. So, a-( 20 )v_way I comes, and meeting the good-wife at the door, bid her farewell forever ; but what, said I, is your bus.band’s name ? to which she answered,John Swine ; I was thinking so, said 1,he has such dirty fashions ; but whetherwas yon his mother or his sister l laywith tliese two nights.All that day I travelled the countrywest from Haddington, but could notget meat; when I asked if they had anyto sell, they told me they never did sellany bread, ana I found by sad exper¬ience, they had none to give for no¬thing. I came into a little countryvillage, and went through it all, houseafter house, and could get neither breadnor ale to buy : At last I came into apoor weaver’s house, and asked him ifhe would lend me a hammer; Yes, saidhe, what are you going to do with it ?Indeed, said I, I am going to knock outall my teeth with it, for I can get nobread to buy id all the country, for all’the stores and stacks you have in it;What, said he, were you in the minis¬ter’s ? 1 know not, said I, does he keepan alehouse ? O na, said he, he preaclues every Sunday ; and what does he( ,)preach ? said I, is it to harden yourj hearts, -baud well together, have no char-ity, hate strangers, hunger the poor, eat: and drink all yourselves? better burstyour bellies than give it to beggars, or! let, good meat spoil? If your ministerbe as haughty as his people, I’m posi¬tive he’ll.drive a louse to London for; the hide and tallow, Here I bought! the weaver’s dinner for twopence, andthen set out again, keeping my coursewestward, it being now night, I cameto a farmer’s housO south from Dal¬keith; the goodman being very civil,and desirous of news, I related thewhole passages of the two days andI nights by-past, whereat he was greatly1 diverted, and said, l was the first he1 heard of, that ever that man gave quar¬ters to before, though he was an elderof the parish. So that the goodmanand I fell so thick, he ordered me to be! laid on a shake down bed by the fire,where 1 lay more snug than among theswine* Now there were three women; lying in a bed in the same apartment,and they not minding that I was there*first one of them rose and let her watergo in below the chimney-grate, wbere^ 22 )I had a perfect view.of her bonny thing,as the cosl fire burnt so clearly all thenight; and then another arose and didthe same; last of all got up the old ma¬tron, as she appeared to be, like a se¬cond handed goodwife, or a whir’d o’ermaiden, six times overturned, and asshe let her dam go, she also, with fullforce, when done, let a fart, like theblast of a trumpet, which made theashes on the hearth-stone to fly up likedust about her buttocks, whereat 1 wasforced to laugh out, which made her torun for it, but to smother the; laughterI stapt the blankets in my mouth ; shewent to bed, and wakened the othertwo, saying, O dole! what will I tellyou ? yon chapman body has seen a* ourarses the night; shame fa* him, saidthey, for we had nae mind he was there.I wat weel, says one of them, I’se norise till he be awa, but, said the auldwoman, gin he has seen mine, I cannahelp it, it’s just like other fouk’s, an*fin*t a hair I care. On the morning,the old matron got up first, and order¬ed up the house, then told me to risenow, for chapman and every body wasup 5 then she asked me if I had an use< 23 )of laughing in my sleep? \esf said I,when i see any daft-like thing, I canlook and laugh at it, as well sleeping asty^king ; A good preserve us, said she,ye’re an unco body, but ye needna waiton our porridge time, I’se gie you cheeseapd bread into your pouoi, which Xwjliingly accepted, and away I came.So I went to Linlithgow that night,\yhere l met with droutby Tam, mysweet and dear companion, and herep we held a most terrible encounter with|i the tippeny for two nights and a day ;ii and then we set out for Fife, on theI hair order, by the way of To«ryburn| and Culross; and coming up to a par.Icel of women washing by a water-sid^,I buys one of their hair j the time I wascutting it off, Tom fell a courting andkisgmg and clapping one of them, whowas one of the havrel sort: what hap.pened* I know not, but she cried out.Ye nuisleard filthy fallow, ye put yourhand atween my feet, mair need ani.t ther thing sud be there; an ill chancei on your picture, cried an old wife, forraony a ane has tane me by there iu daf-fin, and l never said a word about it $; ye daft jades, canna ye baud your( 24 ')tongue, whan it’s your shame that youspeak. Gae awa, cried the lassf, he, fil¬thy body that he is, the last chapmanthat kissed me had a horse pack, buthe’1! hae naething in his biit a wisp o’strae, some auld Greeks, hair skins, mau-kin-skins, ony thing that bears bonk,and yet he wad kiss and handle me, Iwas made for a better fallow^ ane o’them came by ae day, and soil’d ourMeg twa ell and a quarter o’ linen, tobe her bridal sark, for be had nae mair,and when she made it and put it on, itwadna hide her !*“—! hech hech be, Ifinis,