lO O.^ Family of O’Bonnel.€CBY HENRY VINCENT, Esq.TUBIRISH ASSASSIN.Dark was the night, and bleak blew the wind, as theguilty O’Donnel, the mention of whose name instilleddread wherever it was heard, paced to and fro with cau¬tious steps in the front of a splendid mansion, situatein Sackville street, in the city of Dublin ; a death-likesilence prevailed, and nought but the shrill sighings ofthe gale occured to interrupt the gloomy broodings ofhis anguished mind. “Approach ! Approach ! he criedin a voice of smothered rage, “ thou cursed villain, whose,blasted machinations have for ever destroyed the fameand the family of my forefathers, and let the last existingbranch of that once proud and distinguished clan finishthe catalogue of his crimes, of which thou hast been theprimary cause, by sheathing his trusty weapon m thyblackened heart, in which has been engendered all thosehell-born schemes of mischief that have made him thewretch he is! ”At that moment, a person whose outward appearancebespoke him of the middling order of life, approached,and ran quickly up the few stone steps that led to thehall-door, before which O’Donnel had been anxiouslywatching. He had lifted his hand to the knocker, andwas about to give the accustomed rap, when he wasseized by the sinewy arm of O’Donnel, who. instantlyplunged a poignard into his side, and exclaimed withsavage exultation : “ That, to thy heart, thou fiend ofhell, and by this,” repeating his thrusts, “be the mane*of murdered innocence appeased!” A hollow groan warthe only sound that escaped the stranger, who fell sense¬less against the railings. O’Donnel contemplated hudreadful work for a few moments with a steady gazeaad then directing his impious eyes towards heaven, re-3turned thanks for the opportunity given him of perpe¬trating the horrid deed. The sound of voices within thelouse now filled his guilty bosom with alarm, and, withhe swiftness of lightning, he flew towards the country.Towards the latter end of the summer of 1793, ourlero arrived at his eighteenth year, a season when theleart of youth is most susceptible of the softer impres-ions. As he was riding one evening at this period,hrough the lands in the vicinity of his father’s estate,■ ppressed by the heat, he entered under the refreshinghade of a neighbouring wood, which clothed the sidesf a steep mountain that reared its head before him..1he appearance of the spot was bewitchingly picturesque;j be verdure of the meadows, the grouping of the cattle,■ rith here and there a cottage embosomed in the foliage11 the wood, and the varying shrubs which climbed along[ m occasional rugged projections of the crag, all tend-11 to heighten the beauty of the scene. The sombre- uides of night were fast approaching, the setting sunI niled with a farewell lustre on the summits of the hills,j id the water of a neighbouring stream, which flowed| owly over its sandy bed, received a deeper gloom fromie lengthening shadows of the mountains. The night■ °sed in ere he could tear himself from the enchantingbgion, which he promised to visit once more on thoisuing morning.The succeeding day was excessively hot; but as even-• 8 approached, nature again assumed her mellow co- •uring, and again did Arthur dwell with rapture on the- ones he had viewed with so much pleasure the night•jfore. He entered the wood, and pursued a path that‘ n ’u an oblique direction, gently winding up the hill;* was soft as moss, and of a vivid green, and throughnuy little openings in the wood, the crags, the adjacent.> Llage, and the meandering stream were seen to greata;vantage. He had not proceeded far, before a peat *jiite cottage, built on a little level, on t;he si$e qf ahjll,*4:attracted his notice. There was an air of taste and sinplicity in every thing around it, which excited his utmoicuriosity with respect to its inhabitants, of whom, froithe scene before him, ho formed the most romantic ideaIt was placed in that situation, which, of all others, withe most picturesque ; that is, its point of elevation w.not too great for the landscape. From the bottom ofsmall lawn which spread before it, the wood gradualjijfell to the margin of the river, and a number of gigant joaks covered the hill behind it nearly to the summit, jbroken line of moss-hung crags, however, still peepisbeyond. Against the front of this cottage grew an cwoodbine, whose branches, mingling with each othicrept round four neat sash windows, that glowed as £from the reflection of the sun. While he stood silentadmiring the beauty of the scene, the door of the C‘tage was opened, and a young woman, clothed with e;gant but artless taste, stepped out upon the green ; jher arm there leant a man of very interesting figure, arather stricken in years, who, after looking round hwith an air of satisfaction, smiled with parental fondn,on his fair companion, and gave to heaven, with cheful piety, his grateful thanks for the blessing he enjoy• Thus was Arthur situated, and having gratified jfancy with the scenery around, was about to return ; 1no sooner did the two figures appear before him, tlhis best and sweetest feelings were called into acththe country assumed a more enchanting hue, the .shed a mellower and more delicious tint, and everyject seemed heightened with a pathetic glare. Antelligence the most expressive sat on the features of iyoung woman,—an intelligence so divine, so mildgraceful, that Raphael might have studied it with jture. She had on a gown of white cotton, and roher waist there was a green sash ; her hair of a nut hr-colour, hung down loosely upon her shoulder, and fher left arm depended a small basket. The personleaned upon her right arm was dressed in a scarlet rtarv coat; bis countenance was strongly marked martial,but at the same time mingled with much benignity ; hisforehead was hold and open, his eyes full and dark, hiseye-brows black and thick, his nose aquiline, and his chinrather prominent; he had a staff in his hand, and al¬though apparently possessing vigour and health, howalked with difficulty, from an injury in his left leg.Arthur had till now remained concealed behind sometrees ; but stepping forward to continue the objects ofhis admiration in view, a favourite dog, who ran by theiiside, observed him, and beginning to bark with vehe¬mence, they turned round. He found himself discovered,and advancing towards them, begged they would pardonhis obtrusion, with that suavity and dignity of manners,of which he was so capable. They smiled at his apology,and the old man with much good nature, told him liej was welcome to his farm ; it gave him pleasure, he said,1 to see he admired his situation, and added, if he couldi bear to saunter no faster than himself, he would shows him some parts well worth seeing, and which probably' had escaped him.An agreeable conversation soon took place, into which! the amiable Maria, for such she was called, entered with' the most frank and bewitching simplicity, speedily con¬vincing our hero, that her heart and her understanding1 were as lovely as her form. As they chatted together,1 the reserve natural to strangers wore off, and Arthm| having expressed much satisfaction, mingled with som>’curiosity, as to their mode of life, the old man with greati affability told him his short but melancholy tale. His| name (he said) was Farrell, and having at an early periodi of life chosen the profession of arms, by his assiduity and■ attention he soon recommended himself to the notice ofhis colonel, who rewarded him with promotion to a lieu¬tenancy. Shortly after he married the daughter of aclergyman : his connubial joys were, however, but short,as his regiment was ordered to Germany in a few days ;whither his too-affoctionatc wife, who was then pregnant,insisted on accompanying him. The army was soonordered to the field, and ere long the dreadful confusion•>f war hurst around them. Still, however, his wife fol- jlowed him with persevering attention. One morning!:is regiment, with others, was ordered to Ostend, and JSaving taken an affectionate farewell of his Maria, he |marched with a palpitating heart to a scene of carnage j•ind blood, from whence he was soon carried back to the'amp in consequence of a wound he received in the left ,1knee by a musket ball.The anguish of his amiable wife may well be conceiv¬ed on his return ; but resisting the feelings of nature, she• non exerted herself in preparing the necessary comforts ifor his unhappy situation. Those exertions were, how¬ever, too severe for her tender frame, already weakened :! y a succession of hardships. In a few days she becameunwell, and was confined to her bed, where shortly after j■lie was delivered of a daughter.A few mornings after the birth of his daughter, when‘he health and strength of his consort seemed fast re-(urning, he awoke, and called to her to know how shefelt herself. To his first call he received no answer; he'repeated his cries, but still a death-like silence prevailed.Alarmed at this unusual circumstance, he called aloudtor a soldier’s wife who attended his Maria. She soon' i iv-ntered, and by her master’s desire, approached the bed*f her mistress. But, oh God! who can describe thesensations of the lieutenant, when, on the clothes being;turned down, he observed his beloved Maria bathed inblood, and his infant daughter immersed in the purple .stream ! Notwithstanding his dangerous situation, hefettered from his bed, and then threw himself on thecouch of her he adored; where, overcome by the horrorof the scene, he became senseless. While in that situ¬ation, the cries of the attendant attracted some of thesoldiery to the spot, who, on examining the body of MrsParrel, discovered, that, during the night, a random shot lfrom the enemy had entered the tent, and with it catne:7the shaft of death to the unfortunate Maria, who lajasleep with her child in her arms. From the sleep oflife, she sunk to that of eternity, and breathed no more.The infant Maria, who had been named after her mother,was, however, unhurt, and was consigned to the care ofa soldier’s wife, who had buried her own child, and whobecame an affectionate foster-mother to her tendercharge.The unfortunate lieutenant, on awaking to the horrorof his situation, became almost distracted, and madeseveral attempts to terminate his existence, but was hap¬pily prevented by his attendants. Some months nowefapsed, during which the wound in the knee assumeda favourable appearance, and in a short time he wasagain enabled to join the ranks. During the remainderof the campaign, he distinguished himself on severaloccasions, and finally received a captain’s commission ,shortly after which his regiment was ordered home. Onhis arrival in England, the wound in his knee again brokeforth, and after in vain struggling against its obstinacy,he was obliged to retire from the service on half-pay ;and having sought for a cheap but comfortable residence,he at length met with his pres^n.;cottage, where, blessedwith the dutiful and atluition of his lovelyMaria, nothing on this si ■ . "ave he thought couldadd to his content.They had by this time rear. ;,ed the cottage, when Ar¬thur would have taken his leave, but Farrell begged hewould step in and grace his humble shed. He couldnot refuse ; there was an air of gentleness and sincerityabout him, that would not admit of a denial; he steppedtherefore into a very neat little parlour, where, sittingdown, the worthy host desired his daughter to bringsome of the best wine ; “ If you can excuse,” he said,what an old soldier can afford, you arc welcome.”Arthur was much affected, and without a word, invo¬luntarily stretched out his hand, which Farrel seized■ with warmth—they were silent.sMibb Farrell entered—she smiled, and throwing herblue eyes upon Arthur, offered him wine. He took aglass—his hand trembled—he drank her health ; it washe thought, the most delightful wine he had ever tasted—he praised her skill, and she blushed. “I am glad itpleases you,” she said. At this moment, turning roundto speak to her father, the bright hilt of a sword whichhung over the chimney-piece, attracted the attention ofArthur.Farrell observed it, and rising from the chair, took itdown ; he drew it from the scabbard ; “ This,” cried he,waving it round his head, “this, sir, was once my onlyfortune—my only friend.—With this, and much goodservice has it done me,'—with this, I have known theday, when, shrinking from the lightening of its edge,the foes of Ireland have retired.”The night was fine, the moon had arisen, and sweetlyillumined the river and distant mountains ; all, exceptthe nightingale, was mute; and struck by a scene soaccordant with his feelings, it was late ere he reachedhome, where his mother was anxiously awaiting his re¬turn.After supper, he related to his affectionate parent the Ilittle adventure of the evening: and she, with the warmth 'usual to her on such occasions, participated in all the ]feelings of her son, and enamoured of the glowing ■picture he had drawn, she promised to visit Farrell and jhis amiable daughter on the ensuing morning.During the whole night, Arthur could not divest him¬self of the idea of Maria, whose bewitching figure was ;constantly in his mind. He rose with the lark, and im-;patiently awaited the rising of his mother. He was sooncalled to breakfast, at which he scarcely eat a mouthful,and at eight o’clock the carriage was ordered, and lady;O’Donnell, accompanied by her son, were driven to thefoot of the hill on which the cottage of Farrell stood,where they alighted and walked up the path which Ar¬thur had taken the preceding night. They soon reached9the cottage, and found Farrell and his amiable daughterit breakfast, -who rose with some marks of confusion atdiis unexpected visit; but soon recovering their wontedsuavity, they welcomed their guests with genuine satis¬faction.Maria now busied herself in removing the breakfastthings, and in a few minutes a general and animatedconversation ensued. From the house they removed tothe lawn, and from thence surveyed the surroundingprospect, with which lady O’Donnel was infinitely de-ighted; and not less was she delighted with her hostmd his lovely daughter, in whose conversation she ex¬perienced the utmost satisfaction. She secretly resolved,however, to give them some substantial mark of her es¬teem, and for that purpose invited them to her house onthe following day. The invitation was most gratefullyaccepted, and amongst those who felt particular pleasureon the occasion, Arthur was foremost.On the next day Captain Farrell and his daughter■ arrived at the great house, as it was called by the neigh¬bouring peasantry ; they were received at the gate byArthur with the sincerest satisfaction, and on beingcondi; ! M to the parlour, they experienced from ladyO’Donin ], all that delicate and hospitable attentionwhich formed a principal feature in her character. Theyamused themselves during the morning in exploring thebeautiful and extensive grounds in the vicinity of thehouse ; and after dinner, Arthur observing his motherand Captain Farrell in close conversation, begged thefavour of Miss Farrell’s company to the garden, wherelie promised to show her all the beauties, which were sorichly and abundantly scattered in all directions. Shewillingly accepted the invitation, and in a few secondsthey entered the garden. Arthur offered his arm to hisfair companion, which she tremblingly accepted.While examining one of the hot-houses, they were: observed by M‘Pherson, the steward, who approachedand offered his services to explain the process attending.<10the culture of exotic plants. Arthur, however, desirousof being alone, in rather a haughty tone, told him his'presence could be dispensed with.M‘Pherson made his how and retired, but was sostruck with the beauty of Maria, that, after having re¬treated to some distance, he stopped to admire her.Not being aware who she was, he went among theservants to enquire, and at length ascertained from thefootman, who had accompanied the carriage that con¬veyed lady O’Donnel and her son to the cottage on thepreceding day, that she was the daughter of CaptainFarrell, a poor half-pay officer, who had dined with hismistress on that day, and who was then in the drawing-:room.The suspicions of M‘Pherson were now roused, andnot approving of the apparent close intimacy betweenhis young master and Maria, he returned to the gardenin search of them, resolved to watch their actions. Hesoon traced the happy pair to a summer-house, whitherthey had retired from the heat of the sun.At the moment M‘Pherson, who secreted himself be¬hind some shrubs, arrived, Arthur was holding the fairhand of Maria, and in an enraptured tone expressing*the impression she had made on his heart.Maria, a stranger to the wiley ways of the world, a?freely confessed that she felt for him the affection of asister. Arthur instantly caught her in his arms, and inan' extatic embrace, vowed eternal love, and she made areciprocal promise, and the mutual bond was sealed bya thousand innocent and endearing kisses. The enrnp-?tured pair now proceeded to the house, ignorant of iluVsj>y they had had on their actions, and each delight iwith the assurance received from the other, Iod!:< d for¬ward with confidence to future bliss. On entering the;drawing room, tea was served up; mid shortly after,'lady O’Donnel ordered her carriage to convey her hum¬ble but admired friends to their cottage. On the wayhome, Capt. Farrell informed Maria, that their benevo-11lent friend, had, in the most delicate and generous way,insisted on his acceptance of an annuity during life, oi£100 a-year. The gratitude of Maria at this unex¬pected information, knew no bounds; she shed tears ofaffection, and spoke in terms of enthusiasm of the familythey had left, for liom she innocently observed, she ou-tertained an affection almost as strong as for her father." 'r>herson, after Arthur and Maria had left the gar-den, came from his hiding place, resolving in his ownmind that the intentions and wishes of his young mastershould never be accomplished. This determination hoadopted from a twofold reason : first, because he knewit would be in direct opposition to the will of Sir Neale;and next, because be felt a desire for Maria himself,conceiving that her father, would accept with avidity,any proposition he should make, holding, as he did, alucrative and advantageous situation, which his owndishonesty rendered doubly profitable.In furtherance of this design, he went on the ensuingmorning to the cottage, and having explained fromwhence he came, he was received by Capt. Farrell with(the greatest cordiality.Maria soon afterwards entered the room, and instant-jly recognized M'Pherson ; who addressed her with greatirespect. There was something in his appearance notCalculated to elicit respect, and she returned his civilityiwith distant reserve. This, however, did not deter him•from his purpose ; and having taken his departure for(that time, he returned in a few days, and begged a pri¬vate conversation with Capt. Farrell, who readily com-died with his wishes. The insiduous Scot then openedhis mind, and made propositions for the hand of Maria.Captain Farrell in answer, observed, that to the con¬nection with Mr M'Pherson he had not the slightest(bjf ction ; but, as be was resolved never to control thei nclinations of his daughter in the choice of a partneror life, he must refer all suitors to herself, and whateveii Vas her determination, he would willingly accede to it.12With this answer M'Pherson was obliged to be con¬tent, although he did not argue favourably of his suc¬cess with Maria, whose secret attachment to Arthur hewell knew.To Maria, therefore, he directed his constant attention,bringing her presents of the most delicious fruits fromthe garden of Sir Neale, and using every other expedientin his power to gain her respect, but without success.1 le generally so timed his visits, as not to meet withArthur, who became a constant attendant at the cottage,and who, on being informed by Maria of the presump¬tuous intentions of M'Pherson, was outrageous, andcould scarcely be prevented from sacrificing him to hisanger.Several months now elapsed, in which the passion ofArthur and Maria attained additional strength, and could,scarcely be concealed in the presence of lady O’Donnel,on her occasional visits to the cottage.While things were thus situated in Donegal, Sir Nealewas advancing in his political career in Dublin with rapidsteps ; his talents attracted universal admiration, and atlength raised him to the highest office under the viceroy,who entertained for him the most profound esteem. Al¬though thus successful in his views, he did not neglect)the interests of his son, for whom he at length procureda situation immediately under his own auspices. Of thiscircumstance he dispatched intimation to lady O’Don¬nel, directing that Arthur should be sent without delay.:On the arrival of the packet containing this informa- :tion, lady O’Donnel felt peculiar pleasure, as she thought ,her beloved Arthur had now arrived at an age when he |should know something, of the world, and enter into jthat career which his father had followed with so much Ihonour to himself, and satisfaction to his superiors.While reading her husband’s letter, Arthur entered—he had just left his Maria.“ Come, my Arthur,” said lady O’Donnel, “ I havtfigood news for you; your father has procured for you f13situation in the castle, which I trust will be the first steptowards that distinction I am convinced jour talents andperseverance will acquire.”Had a clap of thunder rolled over the head of Arthur,! he could not have been more alarmed than at this com-■ munication. “ What!” said he to himself, “to leave myMaria, to quit all those innocent pleasures which I haveso long enjoyed, and to embark in the troubled scenes of- the political world! Oh God! how wretched is my fate !”I “ Still,” continued he, “ my father must be obeyed : hisi ambitious temper will never brook a refusal, and howeverj inconsistent with my own inclinations, his will must beI my law.”Having finished his soliloquy, during which his amiablemother regarded him with astonishment, he raised hishead, and in a hurried tone, expressed his readiness tocomply with his father’s wishes. He then left the room,and proceeded with a quick pace to impart the gloomynews to Maria, whose anguish exceeded all consolationfor a considerable time.To describe the wretchedness of Maria is beyond ourpower; suffice it to say, her wretchedness went far beyondthe bounds of common lamentation, and approachednearer to distraction than the sorrow of sanity.Arthur at length tore himself from her arms, and re¬turned home to make preparations for his journey, whichwas to commence the ensuing morning at an early hour.It would be needless to describe the delight felt byM‘Pherson on receiving instructions to prepare thetravelling equipage of Arthur ; his hopes were renewedtowards Maria, and he trusted by his own wily machina¬tions at length to be able to gain the consummation ofhis wishes in that quarter.At the dawn of day, Arthur after taking a most affec¬tionate leave of his mother, set out for the capital, attended by a trusty servant, and in a few days reachedhis father’s house, in Sackville Street, where he met amost welcome reception.14We must now pass over three years of our hero’s life,during which he frequently visited the seat of his ances¬tors, and as frequently renewed his vows of fidelity to hisMaria with redoubled ardour, for whom his love grewmore ardent, and in whose presence alone he enjoyedreal happiness. During that period M'Plierson was con- Jtinually urging his suit, but was invariably treated withindignation. Still, however, he did not despair, andfelt a confident hope his purposes would yet be attained, |from the knowledge he had of Sir Neale’s ambitiousviews for his sonArthur had now arrived at the age of manhood, andbegan to think of some expedient to induce his father toagree to his connection with Maria. Several plans noccured to his mind, but they were all rejected as futile.While thus undetermined, one morning, towards the •latter end of the summer of 1796, his father desired tohave some private conversation with him, and after aprefatory address, called his mind to the necessity offorming an alliance suitable to his rank, observing atthe same time, that, from some hints thrown out by anobleman of distinguished eminence, who had a lovelydaughter, and with whom Arthur was well acquainted,he would be received as a welcome suitor. To this .harangue, Arthur, from his confusion, could give nodecisive answer, he stammered out his disinclination fora matrimonial connection at so early a period of his life,and hoped his father would give him time to consider ofthe proposition. Sir Neale laughed heartily at his son’smodesty, as he termed it, and jokingly desired him totake care that a more successful candidate did notjockey him.In a few weeks Arthur again returned to the country,and finding there was little chance of bringing his fatherto his terms, he came to the desperate resolution ofprivately marrying his Maria through the medium of aRoman Catholic priest. Considerable difficulties arosein accomplishing this object; but, to the inf.nito •height15of our hero, that happy, happy hour arrived wheii liepressed the object of his adoration to his beating hearras his partner through the cares and vicissitudes of lifeMaria, for 'whom Lady O’Poiinel felt a parental affec¬tion, became an almost constant visitant at the “ greathouse,” not unfrequently stopping there by the weel;together.An event, however, too soon occured, which seemedas a sort of warning to the miseries which are to fol!o\vOne fine summer’s evening, as the gentle Maria was re¬turning to her father’s cottage, she had scarely got hutof sight of the wall of O’Donncl park, when she was hie;,by M'Pherson, whose disorderly appearance evidentlyshowed he had been drinking. He came up to her, r.iidin a brutal tone, asked whither she was going ? “ Ildtfu ,Mi1 M‘Pherson,” said Maria. “ Rest you here then, young’lady,” said he, “ for I’ve got a few words to say to you.’-“ It is getting late, Mr M'Pherson,” returned Maria, “ Imust proceed home.” “Ne’er you mind your hame,young lady,” continued he, “we dinna part sae easily,you mon gie me a kiss. ” Having said this he rudelycaught her round the neck, and with his impious lipsimprinted an odious kiss on her cheek. She was extremelyalarmed, and struggled to get from his grasp. In vain,however, did she exert herself; he threw her on theground, and thrusting his hand into her bosom, began totake the most indecent liberties. She now could scarcelyspeak from terror, and in a smothered voice she beggedhim to desist. She used her utmost strength to get froilihis hold ; but all in vain. She shrieked with violence,but alas! her cries were not heard. At length the villainsucceeded in stopping her cries by holding her petticoat,which he had brutally raised, over her mouth, and wAsabout to accomplish his vile intentions, when he wasalarmed by the lifeless manner in which his unfortunatevictim lay; he uncovered her face, and he feared ho badmurdered the unfortunate innocent. Too soon, howe ver,his fears were removed; the colour returaed to the CheeksIt}of Maria, and with it the fierce desirea of the baseM'Pherson. Again did he seize her in his accursedarms, and again did she repeat, though faintly, her strug¬gles, and her ejaculations for assistance—which, ere herinfernal assaulter had triumphed, through the interven¬tion of all-seeing Providence, arrived on the spot, and ata moment when an instant’s delay might have been fatalto the chastity of Maria, the villian received a blow froma cutlass, which deprived him of all sensation, and almostin the same instant the almost senseless innocent wasraised to the affectionate arms of her parent, who having*et out from the cottage to meet his beloved daughter,was alarmed by her first cries, and with as much speedas his lameness would permit, proceeded to her assistance,which happily he was enabled to give in time to preserveunsullied the only comfort of his existence. Most for¬tunately, his stick having been mislaid, he brought withhim his trusty sword, on which he leaned to support histottering frame, and which enabled him to bestow a de¬served chastisement on the monster M'Pherson.Conceiving he had killed the impious ruffian, he pro¬ceeded slowly on his way towards the cottage, withdifficulty supporting Maria, who could not utter a wordfrom agitation. He at length arrived at home, and con¬signed to the care of her foster-mother, who had alwayslived with him, his tender charge. On the ensuingmorning Maria told her unhappy parent her little tale,and they together returned thanks to Heaven for her hap¬py escape; while Captain Farrell expressed his intentionof going to Lady O’Donnel to inform her of the miscreantshe had in her service.We must now return to the villain M'Pherson, whosoon recovered from the effects of the blow he had re¬ceived, which was attended with no dangerous symptoms.On rising from the ground, he observed a small casketlying a few paces from him, which he picked up, and onexamining its contents, discovered the certificate of Ar¬thur and Maria’s marriage, together with their wedding(17ng, and two or three notes written by Arthur, in whiche addressed Maria as his wife. In a moment theiabolical mind of M'Pherson suggested a plot, whichrould revenge him on both Maria and his young master,nd enable him to leave Donegal, which he would heonstrained to do. He proceeded directly home, andping by a private way to his own room, packed up allhose valuables he had been enabled to collect duringlis service, which, besides many purloined, and lodgedn a bank in Dublin, amounted to a very considerableum. Having done this he took horse and proceededlirectly for the capital, taking with him the casket con-;aining the proofs of Arthur’s marriage. In two daysmd nights he reached the house of Sir Neale, to whomle introduced himself in the most abrupt manner, apolo¬gising for his presence, by saying that nothing but hisregard for the family of the O’Donnells could inducehim to come in person so great a distance. Withoutfurther circumlocution he then placed in the hands ofSir Neale the casket which he had brought with him.Sir Neale looked with astonishment at M'Pherson,then at the casket. “ What,” said he, “ am I to under¬stand from this?” “Open ye the casket,” repliedM'Pherson, “and you will be informed.” Sir Nealeopened the casket, and took from it the papers it con¬tained. The first of those that he examined was a shortnote from Arthur to Maria, couched in the followingterms:“ Dearest Maria,“ The moments seem ages until I can againpress to my heart my ever-adored wife. A few hoursand I shall be with you. Oh! Maria, you know nothow I love you. Scarcely can I exist but in your pre¬sence. I send this by Henry, lest you should think thetime long ere I visit the cottage.Adieu,Your Arthur.”18Aftu' his pissioa was over, lie desired M'Pherson tq,uivc him au account of the circumstances which led tohis son’s marriage.M‘PhersQn readily complied, reciting all the facts of:the progressive passions of Arthur and Maria which came ito his knowledge, and concluded by observing, that, as ithe parties had been married by a Roman CatholicPriest, they might bo parted, such a junction not beingdeemed legal according to the laws of the ProtestantChurch.Sir hfcale listened to the maddening tale with dread¬ful sensations, and on its termination his rage knew nobounds. He cursed himself, his wife, his son, all thq;world, and seizing M‘Pherson by the throat nearlystrangied, hint, observing, that if he had done his duty, bytransmitting an account of the first interview betweenArthur and Maria in the summer-house, all might havebeen well. “ What do I say ?” continued he, “all shallbe well if I wash from the face of the earth, in their own.gore, all those who have thus conspired to sully the bloodof the Q’Donnells.” He then rang the bell, ordered his.post-carriage, and drove towards Donegal.Arthur was a short distance from town with a friend ;but returning the next day, hp learnt the arrival ofiM-Pliers on, and the sudden departure of his father. At ifirst he was alarmed, lest any sudden illness of his reveredmother had caused his father so abruptly to leave town ;,but then he conceived, if that was the case, some infor- imatiou on the subject would have been communicatedto him. Racked with uncertainty, he endeavoured to .find M‘Pherson, but his searches were vain. His anxietywas however terminated by tbe arrival of a short letterfrom his faithful servant Henry M'Guire, to whom alonehp entrusted the secret of his marriage with Maria, andto whose special care he recommended her when he lastquitted Donegal, charging him to watch over her withthe eye of a protector.*■>19:The letter was as follows :Donegal, Sunday night.My eyer-respected master, I have only time to exhortyou to proceed hither without delay. The villainM'Pherson after the most diabolical attempt to forcemy young mistress to his odious purposes, in which hewas happily prevented by her father, has gone to Dublin,and informed Sir Neale of your marriage, who has ar¬rived here in the most dreadful passion ; he has lockedyour mother in the vault below the left wing, and yourdear unfortunate wife, who was on a visit to her, he hastreated with unparalleled brutality, turning her out ofdoors in a rainy night, and even striking her some severeblows in the heat of his anger. My poor lady is now atMurphy’s cabin extremely ill, attended by her unhappyfather; whose cottage was burned down last night. Comoas swift as you can, as I fear my young mistress is ingreat danger, and raves continually of you. In haste.Your devoted servant,Henry M£ Guire.When Arthur had received this agonising letter hehad just returned from riding. His agitation for sometime was very great. At length he rang for a servant,whom he desired to get his horse to the door in a momen'and to fix the travelling holsters with a brace of loadedpistols to the saddle, as he was going a long journey.While the unhappy Arthur is winging his speed to thehouse of his forefathers, we will return to Sir Neale whoarrived at his estate on the afternoon of the third day,bloated with contending passions of injured pride andinveterate hatred towards all who he conceived wereprivy to the conduct of his son. Amongst others includ¬ed in the curses he was incessantly venting, his amiablewife was foremost. To her he attributed much of hissupposed dishonour, and on her innocent head he deter¬mined to take the most signal revenge. On his en¬tering the hall of the chateau, the first person he met20with was lady O’Donnell, she was leaning on the arm ofMaria, who was spending a few days with her adoredbenefactress. Without a moment’s hesitation he seizedthe unfortunate Maria by the hair, dragged her roundthe hall, kicked her with the most execrable brutality, andacted like a mad man. His wretched victim soon be¬came senseless, and on lady O’Donnell’s flying to herassistance he dashed her from him with horrible exe¬crations, and then fastening on his terrified wife, whocould only ascribe the husband’s conduct to madness,he drew her towards a trap-door, which led to thecellars beneath the house, and opening it, threw her downthe stairs, and then following, lifted her lifeless buuyfrom the dark ground, and deposited it within a cell.Having done this, he returned to the hrii at the momentwhen the exhausted Maria was returning to a sense of :her wretchedness. Perceiving her rise from the cold flagshe again ran to her, and with refinement of cruelty, hethrew her out on the gravel walk in the midst of a heavyshower of rain, and shut the door with a thundering clap.The worthy Captain Farrell was entertaining a fewfriends at the cottage. In the midst of their convivialitya knock at the door disturbed them. Captain Farrellarose and opened it; but, oh God! who can describe thehorror of his feelings, when his lovely Maria fell into hisarms drenched with rain and void of all sense. She wasseized with the most dreadful fits, which quickly suc¬ceeded each other. Her agonised parent carried herto her apartment, where she continued in the mostmelancholy state, and at length the premature birth ofa child unfolded her unhappy secret, and gave to theheart of Farrell a pang of which he never got the better.Towards the close of the evening the shrieks of theservant girl attracted the attention of Farrell, he ran toascertain the cause, and was soon woefully convincedof his eminent danger. The outhouses were all in onemass of flame. Swift as his enfeebled limbs would per¬mit did ho fly to the chamber of his daughter, and~     - i    i  I21wrapping her in a coverlid he carried her out upon thelawn. There did he return thanks to God for herescape. The people of the village alarmed at the sight,rushed to the hill to give them assistance, and amongstthe foremost came Murphy. To see the situation ofMaria was enough for him ; he hastily conveyed her tohis humble cabin, where he consigned her to the careof his wife.Scarcely was a letter sent off to Arthur when theangel of death threw the shadow of his wings over thecabin of Murphy, and the eyes of the gentle, the mur¬dered Maria, were closed in eternal darkness.(When Farrell’s grief was somewhat abated he arosefrom the bed and exclaimed, “Farewell, my Maria,I thou that wert the solace of my age, farewell!On the third morning after the decease of the angelicMaria, the villagers were assembled on the green op¬posite poor Murphy’s cabin, and on their faces dweltthe sentiments of pity and regret. In the bed-room ofthe cabin was placed the coffin of Maria, and beside itknelt the unfortunate Farrell. It was then carried outupon the green, where half a dozen young womendressed in black supported it, whilst as many morewalked two and two before, and the like number behind.They entered the church, and the ceremony com¬menced. A calm resignation was apparent in thecountenance of Farrell. The service had proceeded aconsiderable way, and the corpse was made ready tobe laid in the earth, when suddenly the folden doors ofthe church flew open, and a young man rushed vehe¬mently in, exclaiming, “ Where is my Maria ? I will seeher once more! I come to die with thee my love!Stand off ye inhuman wretches and give me way!” Hethen broke through the crowd, and seeing the coffinstarted some paces backwards. “ Help me, she is mur¬dered! my gentle love is murdered!” He becamespeechless with agony. It was with the utmost difficultyhe wm torn from it; but at length having liberatedtshimself he paused a moment, and muttering, “ I ^ili,’tis fit it should be so,” and darting furiously throughthe aisle, disappeared. He again entered dragging inSir Neale O’Donnell. “ Come on thou wretched authorof my being,—come see the devastation thou hastmade!” and compelling him to approach the coffin,“Look,” he said, “see where she bleeds beneath thyruthless arm! Oh my desePted love! seest thou nothow she supplicates thy mercy! Perdition! but I will !be avenged ! ” Saying this he rushed from the churchin a paroxysm of fury. Sir Neale in the meantime be¬came the very picture of horror, and his teeth struckoath other with dreadful violence. He looked first uponthe coffin, then upon Farrell,'and at length uttered anaudible curse on all around him.Scarcely had lie time to repeat his meditation whenagain his infuriated son rushed forward with the rapidityof the wind, holding in each hand a horse pistol. “ Nowthen,” he roared, “Maria, I come, and in my trainfollows that monster to which your wrongs and mymiseries are attributable. Now pride, where is thytriumph? now virtue, where is thy reward?” At thatinstant he aimed the deadly weapon at the heart of SirNeale, who in the next moment was no more ! murderedby the hand of his only sou ! In the same instant the „dreadful parricide discharged the other pistol at his ownhead ; but by the interposition of a friendly arm, thebarrel of the pistol was raised beyond its deadly level,and the wretched Arthur had not for that time the foulsin of suicide to add to that of the murder of the authorof his being.During this agonising scene, all around were com¬pletely spell bound ; not a word escaped their lips, nota motion denoted their existence ; but the moment SirNeale bit his parent dust their .senses returned, andwith them a conviction of their own culpability in nothaving interposed their endeavour to prevent the catas¬trophe they had witnessed. With one accord they nowii ^3seized the frantic Arthur, and with the utmost difficultydragged him from the church to the house of the clergy¬man of the parish, where he was hound with cords, andplaced in a dark room in the upper story, until suchtime as measures should be taken for a legal investiga-•'•ion of the case.In the morning the door was gently opened by oneof the guards, but what was his astonishment to find hisprisoner flown. An alarm was immediately given, butno traces of him were to be found, and whether lie wasalive or dead was equally uncertain.No sooner had the events we have already recitedtaken place in Donegal, than the news flew to Dublin,where the absence of Sir Neale had been generally ob¬served. Amongst others who received this intelligencewith satisfaction, M'Pherson was foremost. Nothingcould be more grateful to his treacherous heart, as allfear of a discovery of his own nefarious practices wasnow at an end.The impending hand of fate, however, hung over thedevoted Arthur, and the all-seeing eye of Providenceordained that a parricide should not thus calmly escapethe punishment his crime so richly deserved. Everynight while lying off St George’s quay on the RiverLiffey, Arthur used to steal ashore, armed with a poig-nard ; and from his contiguity to Sackville Street, heinvariably directed his steps to that spot, in the hopeof meeting the villain M'Pherson. While watchingbefore the door, he heard a person ask for Mr M'Pher¬son, and receive for answer from the servant, that hewas out, but would return before one. This was suffi¬cient for Arthur, and ere the morning dawned M'Pher-aon was no more. In the guilty confusion of the mo¬ment instead of returning to the vessel, Arthur flewtowards the country, and here again the finger of fateseemed to guide him to his destruction.The murder of M'Pherson was soon discovered bysome passengers, who noticed him lying on the steps.24rand gave the alarm. An enquiry was then made if anysuspicious character was seen about the house, when a .watchman said, he had observed a man dressed in acountryman’s garb, looking about for several nights be¬fore. The hue and cry being raised, a person was de-tceted going on board an American vessel, his clothes -jmuch stained with blood, and a poignard in his pocket.It is needless to say this was the guilty Arthur. Hewas taken before a magistrate, to whom he confessedhis rank and criminality. At first it was supposed byhis friends, that, upon an investigation of the charges,it would be found they arose from insanity. This sup¬position was contravened by Arthur himself, who con¬fessed his iniquities, and gloried in the murder ofM'Pherson. The sessions of oyer terminer being thensitting, he was taken thither the next day, and arraign¬ed for the murder of his father and M‘Pherson, to whichcharges he pleaded guilty. The Recorder began his !last awful duty in pronouncing the sentence of the law,when the court was struck with horror, by a scene of ;the most heart-rending nature which was exhibited.The dock in which the prisoner stood was surround- .ed by sharp iron pikes to prevent the escape of indivi¬duals. Within this stood Arthur patiently listening tothe pathetic address of the judge ; the attention of the «court was fixed upon him, and all were astonished at jthe composure with which he listened to his doom.Suddenly the eyes of Arthur assumed a wildness, that .:at once evinced the agitation of his mind, and in an in¬stant he dashed his temples against the surroundingpikes, two of which penetrated his skull, and terminatedIds unhappy existence! Thus ended the pride !—theglory !—and the misfortunes of the O’Donnells !The worthy Captain Farrell did n*t long survive thedeath of his Maria; he died universally lamented, andwas followed by the benedictions of all who knew him.