A NAccountO F T H ELAST WORDSCHRISTIAN KERR,Who died at Edinburgh, on the 4th Dayot Feb. 1702, in the mh year of her age:Shewing.How much fhe was ravished with tke A/Tiirance of her in*tereft in CHRIST, and the hope of Heaven.There is added,A CONCLUSION.Containing the nfe and improvment of what is related.By Mr \ R C H I B * L D D E \ N SMinifter of the Gofpel at Bowden.“ Suffer little children to come nnto“ me, for of fuch is the kingdom“ of Heaven.”“ Out of the mouth of Bakes and“ Sucklings thou haft perfected" Praifc.”“ The Child (hall die an hundred“ years old.”EDINBURGH;Printed and Sold h? Alex Robertsonin Niddery’s VVynd.M.DCC LXXVI,(Price One Penny.')T O T H EREADER.Christian Reader,THE parents of this child, who have interel !'in my pariih, had remarked in write tfo i* enfuing Ipeeches immediately after bear‘ ing them, for their owr^comfort, and the privar li4 ule of their turviving children ; being far from a i» ny defign of publilhing them to the world , but u* when they were revifed, it was found they die :‘ evidence fo much of the fpirit of grace and adop r‘ tion in the child, that it would be a fault to lup** prefs them, and not to fend them abroad for the‘ public benefit, to the conviftion and edification* of others; for which the parents of the child were,‘ from time the time, lolicitcd to allow to fame to‘ be printed.”“ Such dilcoveries of Chrift, and communications‘ of grace vouchfated to a child, are rare a*d ad-‘ mirable, and therefore fhould not be let pals with-‘ out notice. \lbeit the body of this child was* broke, andmade like a fltdeton through long trou-f ble, yet her words were wile and n gular, and ex-c pres’d with great vehemency and ardour for the‘ dread impreflions of Chrili, and the reconipen^B* of reward that were on he fpirit.To the READfeR. iiiI hope none will queftion the following relation,»hen they confider that lome of the mHfters ofdinburgh, whole names are mentioned, wereir witnefs to feveral palfages contained therein,iw prt cions and di finable a thing is divine gracedeath ? Guilt breeds confounding horror andihguith ; grate outlafts the things of time: thefcire fick of confuntption ; grace is incorruptibleind evcrlafting. It is the efttd of eleding mercy,nd the lecd of glory.—Chrift is the fountain'ofpmmunications, Iwtetnels love, and a lercen be-jwixt believers and eternal wrath ; and thereforepart in Chrift is worth a million of worlds.”If tins little book may conduce to the good ofi-uls, I have my defign and defire, which, that thei od of all mercy , and the Father of glory, wouldfccomplifli eflcdually, it the prayer of him,;ho isYour fervaat in theGofpel and Kingdomof JESUS CHIUST,ft Bowden, ?ne i7, 1704. IArckiiaI'B Dsaji* ”B a4A NACCOUNT !Of fome of the LAST WORDS of jCHRISTIAN KERE*T'HIS child was under a difeale of body from-*• fixth year of her age, which gradually confunthe moifture and ftrength of it, litl at the fovere 1pfeafufe of God; it put a period to her life in t :prdent world. She was of a wife and acute natu !judgment, which, on occafions, flic gave evidence 1by her witty and pertinent layings; but moll met. ■rable in her piety towards God ; which, though,fome times it luflered decay and abatement, throt :the prevalency of the old man, or prevailing of c\ruption ; yet, at other times, when the Ipirit of 1returned again, appeared in her after as remarkaand fignal a manner as a perlon of that age wasp.ible of. A great mean of her blelfed tempetfubordinrtion to the eternal purpofe of free gra 'we may warrantably judge was her education by (ligious example and counlel, whereby Ihe was m:'more and more to lee the vanity of the world, f iabandon the love of it.About fourteen months before her death, flie iunder great fear and dread of the wrath of God, £continued five or fix weeks in that cafe ; then o; itcertain night, about eleven of the clock, (lie calon a perlon, whofe name I forbear to mention, twas befide her in the room, and afked who was ithe room? The perfon anlwercd, there is none f i:the.— If none elk be there, laid Hie again, I multyou this has beenaftrangeday tome — Why fo, f Lthe other?—She anlwered, It has been a day of im tdoubts and fears; but I tell you good new?.Lctrd'hath delivered me out of them all, and IW vThe lafl words of Chriftian Kerr, 5:bil! make me happy. At which words the perfonlie was mad) iurprifed, knowing {he had beenbr trouble of mind for lome time bypaft. Q, laid'perIoa, how have you come to that comfortable.jgatc i 1’ell what way you havedoneit. you oughte wary, for oft times latan ftrives to make per-j fit down on a falle hope, where there is no1 ground of peace.-—-Areyoucomforted beeaulet io merciful, and you truft in that ? - Or do you, ve that Chrift died, and trull in that i Or, is,s any promife in the feripture that you are madey hold on ?—Upon all which Ihe interrupted theton that ipoke, and cried :^-lt is hetb^t laid, thatloever •omcih to him, he ^ill in no wile callAnd 1 am lure 1 have done that, and I willin him r - After which time fhe was never kpAWgtli under terror.wo ot her near relations being prelent with her,t 'uelday the 27th ofy January, 1702. Sbccry’d.0 one of them, Oh ! if it were not the hope ofen, I could not bear this my trouble : the per-to whom flte fpake aniwered, Yes, my dear,en will make amends for all. To which fhel,ed, Yea, there is no fores there ! It may be ath there will be fome pain but that will loon be. There are two places of leripture very com-Ijble to me, the one is, “ Suffer little children totmeuntome, for fuch is the kingdom ot heaven;,,ther is, “ In the volume of the book it is writtentie, I delight to do thy will, OmyGod l”—Alteri words, Ihe prefently cried out, O to think! willing Chrift was to die for Tinners,i Saturday thereafter, being the 21 ft of the laidh; ftie was leizejl by licknels, and perceived thatflam of her departure was drawing near. Fromlay forward the Lord in a further mealure ma-jed himfelf to her, gave others to know that (heafTed from death unto life; or, a vclfel of raer?6The Inft vrords of Chrlftian Kerr,»cj defigned for g’ory : How much was {lie eimoured with Jelub Chrifl ! did not a world, ay, ithoufand w<»rtds feem ro her as nothing in compsfon to him ! was not her heart lifted with the c<templation of paradile, whers {he would get a croon hi r head, and a fong in her mou-h, how afltiotiate was (he in commending Clirift to others,the fienfible experience the had of h m herlelf: upthe day above mentioned at night feeing her nther looking to her, fhe cried out, O mother! mothI am going to drift ; l now hope in him, he '§not leave me ; O rejoice and be glad with me ; I hi |given mytelf to him, he will not forfake me ; I [going to g ta glorious crown a crown of many pdons: her fath<r coming to her, Ihe intreated t,alfo to rejoice, and laid, you would rejoice if l wheahd of my bodily trouble, and would certaihave loved that perfon that would healme ; but fhc(we not love Chrift more, that will heal my foul; ftake me to himlelf , and make me ever happy. I jnot defirc to live in the world, father if you cofr give me the whole univerfe, I would rather die, Chiv hath died for me ; Chrifl is better to me than all lworld; I truft to the merits of Chrift; upon the cr ihe bowed his head and gave up the ghoft, bavfaid. It is fimfhed at the repetition of which wcjfhe feemed to exult and triumph.Mr George Andrew, one of the minifters of E«burgh, have come to vifit her on the Lord ? day, ,foil of f ebruary and afking at her, how fhe wShe anf wered I am not well, but I will be well;ing interrogate if (he was content to die ? ftwfwered yes; where is your hope then laid he?replied. In the merits of Chrift ; he has died for l jWhen he enquired, what haft thou done that irathee believe that Chrift died for thee? I know, :fhe, I deferve damnation inftead of falvaiioq, buis a good and gracious God 1 have given najiWho died at Edinburgh.' :fway to him, and he faid, * VV hofoever cometh toSim he will in no wile c|ll out.’—The fame day at.pight, holding her brother Robert by the hand, Ihc(poke to him on this ways, My dear Roby, feck the' rord, love Chrift, give yourfclf away to him and heill keep you, altho’ you flaould have many enemies(gain(t you, the Lord will preferve you ; and evenijs fure a* your hand is in mine, you’ll find him if youleek him, I am going to get a crown of glory to mylead, and a fong of praile in my mouth. To herifterMargaret alio,(lie laid,My dearfifter Meg feckne Lord, give yourfelf away to him, an 1 he willfound oi you: give away yourfclf once, twice,thrice unto him, and as lure as you lee your mo-icr’s band in mine (die then had her mother by thejand)you will g t him, ’tis true, if you try this wayifttan will be your enemy, as he hath been mine for■Ipmetime : when I had words in my mouth to pray,Sat thought bad been taken out of my heart. Then©king to her mother (lie faid, Ay,mother,and whene thought has been brought bark to me again. I?|ive blefled God for it: but this is nothing,laid Ihe4 her lifter again, feek God, he will defeat fatan.: *ear Meg, lee you pray yourfelf, and that you caule' aty(or Katharine another filter) to pray ; for flicyoung, and I need not fpeak to her. Oh! John/'hny (this was the youngeft child of the family)tat lhall I lay of Johny ? I even leave him upon)d; read much thy book (that is the holy Icrip-res) my long trouble hath made me not get loich read as 1 would, but 1 bids God I have foundich good of the bookOn Monday the ad of Feb. at night, her motherId a gentlewoman of of the city, and two domellicbvants fitting by her, Ihe took her mother by thejnd, and laid, Dear mother, do not grieve for mek rejoice with me in my joy, altho’ 1 have troublemy body, yet it is not lo great as you think, it is3 The laft words of Chriftian Kerr,from the Lord, and I bear it lie will fupport me, hi|ieverlafting arms will bear me up : Perhaps moiher; ityou lee a tear lomemnes in my eye, but do not thinl Iit is either fear or pain, for it is not fo, it is rathe}joy . Dear mother, remember i was but lent to youI know when you borrowed any thing, you are awilling to give it back as you was to borrow it;aniwill you be unwilling to give n«e back to God, whtlent me to you ? If the Lord fliould rake all the refof your children from you, would you grudge, it htmakes a good account of them, as he is now doinjof na^ i Do not grieve or weep then, as for me 1 wi!not weep one tear, for I can part with father an<mother, and all the world tor Chrift, After this, fh tearneffly defired of her mother, that flic would no ilook much upon her when flic was dying leaft fh*11fhould be troubled thereat; the Lord (aid (lie, will bij t| with me, his rod and ftafi will comfort me. Anc th< aring her mother fay to fome that were hcftde he. cin the room Oh! (uch a child and comnjerade (lie ha abeen ! She replied. Oh mother! God will make tij iI the want of me to you.take him tor your commerada ;iOftentimes (have ipoken of worldly things to diver r;you. our God will converie of things concernin; mypCfr foul: 1 hope tp meet with you iti heaven. Fo i»I hope he is your God, and my father’s God, and ehope that he will, be my brethren and my fitters God! (be not concerned for parting a little now,for I hopi1 wc (hall all meet again: Oh! what a glorious met tins iwill it be, when we (liall meet in heaven.. VVnetfhe had (poken rhde words her mother (aid to herMy d tar child you have (poken much and have exj:haufted much of yonr (pirits by fpeaking; remembejrour body is very weak, lie dill a while and reft ftwhich fhe an(wered, it does me no hurt, it is thoSpirit of God thaifupports my weak (pints to (peakij She cried out oftentimes under ravittimcnis of jo;5 ^nd love, I lec him coming leaping over the moui»Who died at Edinburgh. 9:fains, and (kipping over the hills of my fins; he isjpreaking down the partition walls, I have railed.Mr John Law, another of the minilters of the cityl|ame to her on Tuefday the third of the laid month|nd alked her. how Ihe was / Jshe anlwered, 1 hopetil am going to Chrift, he will not leave me, ) truft inlim, he is on his coming now ! Being enquired if filevas willing to die ? Yes laid (he I am willing.that inrfe or death the Lord do with me what he pleafes;1 he makes me his, which I hope he will do, for he isit good God, he will bear ijie up, 1 hope Chrilt ispleading for me with his father ; he will ue with metfvhtn I go through the dark vrlley and (hadow oflieath, and his rod and ftaff will comfort tne, andI will get a glorious crown, a crown of many par.tlons; You muft have fins, laul theminifier, lecing>rou have lo many pardons Yes, laid (he again, Iijave had many fins, many black (cores, but there’s'alardon at every icore, and I will hope in him, he willot leave me. When Ihe was alketl if (lie was uledtoray / She replied, yes, I have had many Iwcet re¬ams of prayer. That is ftrange (aid Mr Law, tocar thee (peak of returns ot prayer,what call you re¬ams of prayer? She anl wedred. That which 1 prayednto God for to me,is now returned all tuuo me. Be-igfafked afterwards byone with whom (Itc had oftenfed much freedom, if (he would tell particularly,hat lome of thefe returns of prayer wer* that Ihead got ? She laid, I know that i (ought of God,that- would give me the laving knowledge of him.andhope that he hath done it,l know alfo it was foughtf <?od (or me, that whatloever he did wiih me, i:eould work a laving change upon me, and that it itas his will, he would grant 1 might be made to dc-are that kt bad done great things for my lou),andilh he not done it ? Hath he not done it ?In the af ternoon of the lame day,Mr JamesWfb-.t at: it’.ier midiler of the city,coming to vifu her10 The lad words of Chriftian Kerr,afltcd her how (he was. and what (he was doing? (haanlwered, I am going to Chrilt; 1 will meet him,,I'll get a crown of glory to my head, and a longof praife in my mouth; this is but a troublefomaworld i and for my part, I have had little or nothingbut trouble in it He a&ed her what (he thought oifin? She replied, I know fin is an ill thing and 1 dea ,ferve damnation, but he is a good God, and I willtruft in him, I have neglt&ed prayer when l mighthaver performed it. What more particular (ins doyou think on ? (aid he, l hat (aid the is the par¬ticular fin. Did you never play,(aid he, on the Sab¬bath-day ? Yes (aid (he.and have been very grievedfor that fin. Wtll,faid he, are you content to die?Yes, laid (he, Then tell me ingentoufly, (aid he,and he prefled her to be ingenious with him, ifyou could have life for a with, whether would you*chufe to live or die ? I would chuile to die,(aid (lie;What is the world ? Chritt is better than a thoufandworlds. I mud tell you that,wittingly and knowing¬ly ! nevxr made a lie Wlnt think you of that? faidlie again, folk may have many fins, yet not be gull*ty of lying. Had you evei any terror of God? Yes,replied the ; What made that,faid h« ? I have want-ed God (her, faid (he, but 1 hive got him nowThereafter file lay quiet more than an hour, as if (hehad been fa ft aflrep; and then in a tranlport of won- tptr and delight, flic cried out, O i think ! think i leeheaven! I think 1 (ee heaven ! That is glorious newindeed, laid a perl on that was befide her. Oh ! faidg in, if I could tell you what it was like ! fawflic agyou ever burning gold, (aid (he, to another perfonthat was al(o in the room? The walls and ftreets ofthe city are like burning gold ! I think ( (ec thefaints stayed in while there. Having fpoken thelewordk fhe was inteiruptcd by a perion entering theroom whom (he did not well know.About eight o’clock at night,leting her brotherRo- kWho died at Edinburgh. It! hert in the chamber, flie faid Roby kifs me ; and thenadded this may be the laft kits you’ll ever get from me,lever loved Roby well, love you Chrift : I cannot Ipeak| much to younow,mind what I have laid toyou before,,| Seek the Lord, they that fetkhim early lhall find him.I ‘ Se«k ard ye (hall find, knock and it (hall be opened1 * unto you ; for I have lought, and have found ; fI have knocked, and it was opened unto me. Thenturmng and looking to her father, who was at her otherband, the Cried out, On I lhall 1 not love Chrilt i ShallI not love him who hath taken away my hard heart,.! and given me a heart of fL(h, to tremble at his word?To her mother all* (he laid, O mother ! I will geeI Cbrilt, 1 will get him, I will get him : her mother| anfwered, you will not mils yot^r brother then ? No,laid (he, I will not mils you, far his him, (he- definedl[j that all flrould join with her. Bti g dtlirtd of herJ mother to go to-bed, and the fervant being dofired toi lift her toftly. Yes, lift me, laid lire, within a little.1 Chrift will come and lift mv foul to glory.She Ipake likewife of Me firs John Hamilton, andI William Creighton, miniftf rs alio in Edinburgh; butill their relation of her dileourle to them being onfitted,|j no particular account can be given of it. Had there| been a drfign at fift of publilhing her (peechcs to the'1 world, gi eater colledionsmight have bei n made. Butil(h«r p.irorts having no thought of committing themI to p> int a great patt of them were omitted. Some,what of Mr Hamilton’s ipeech to her was, that be| uled to go to peilons lick-btds, and on their death-Ireds to lp<ak to them for their edification But,child (aid he,I think that God hath called me bithcr tojbe edified by thee, O that an atheift were no where!may not (bis confute thole who deny God and thejpower of God ; here is a ftrmon indeed ! I know not,fiaid Mr Creighton, what can I do here, burpray withPis child, and thank God on her behalf; for out of theoinhs of babes and fuck lings he will.perfcd bis12 The laft words of Ghriftian Kerr,On Wedncfday being the fourth of the month a-i foreiaid, about ten o'clock in the foienoon, thisbird of paradife finifhed her courle. She was notafraid of the king of terrors ; her Redeemer being\ flung on the crois, took away from her the fling ofdeatn, and changed the king of ten ors, into the( king of dclircs Upon the wings of joy and delight| did the behold the Orient beams of the Sun ofirighteoulnels, and drinks of the wine of the heavenlyCanaan, and tree of the eternal fruits of the treeof life, and hears the ipufic of the angels, and refts■ on the bed of glory, which is perfumed with loveIf the joy of faith was fo fwcet, how ravifhing muftthe joy of fruiton be ! If Ihc exalted and adored! Chrift lo much at a diflance, with what wonder andi delight is (he now tranlported within the clumberst > of his preicncc ! We are in the fea of trouble, butfhe has got im® the harbour, where file will notfin, nor (ufler any more, but exalt thepraife offree grace, as long as immortality endures,ACONCLUSION,Containing tke improvement of the precceding rety*tion.; VI/H \ T is above related lerves, in the firft place,” for information : and in the lecond place, forconfutation.i. It informs us of the excellency of Chrift, fincethe laints, or all Inch as have opened eyes, do in lifeand death, fo much admire him, love him, flee tohim, depend on him, long for him, rejoice in him,magnify him, he mufl be the fountain of •bleflednefs,' a wonder of defights, and a conftellation of glories.Who died at Edinburgh. 13Who can let a value upon Chrift ? he delights theFather with his lovelinefs enriches: the cleft with hiswords, and enlightens heaven with his brightnels.In icripture he is called, the cleft in whom the Fa¬ther’s ioul delighteth; The image ot God, the invfi-ble God ; the meffengcr ot the covenant; the firftand the lad ; the prince ot the kings of the earth ;the mediator betwixt God and man; our paflbver la-crificed for us; the Lord our rightcoulnets; the Lambof God, that taketh away the fins of the world; thehope of glory, the truth aud life. He is the way ;as pried, be was made a way; as aprophet, he ftiewsus the way : As a King, he enables us to walk in thatway, at the end ot which is heaven and glory.2. The preceding relation informs ns how highand powerful the Spirit of the Lord is : He perfeftsftrength in weaknets ; by him the heart is enlargedwith joy, and the mouth opened into gracious fpeech-jes and high praife —A very child is made to fpeakwifely boldly f weetfully, truiifuly. and triumphantlythrough this operation and virtue—A perion is notidraitcned, that has the fellowflyip of the Spirit, hejihath both raifed afieftions and affluent Language, 2|Cor. Hi. 17, “ Where the Spirit of the Lord is,j1** there is liberty.” Job xxxii. 28. “ I am full of“ matter, and the Spirit within me condraineth me.”ijAfts ii. 4 “ They were filled with the Holy Ghod,tand began to fpt ak with other tongues, as the Spiritgave them utterance.”: 3. The foregoing relation informs us, that religionand godlineis is no vain and fanciful thing ; but ahing mod real, fubftantial and uleful: It has truthI'or the ground of it; joy for the companion of it,and heaven for the reward of it. If God be true,1 hen godlmefs is true.— 4t death, the wilful negleftif godlineis confounds a man, and makes him readyo tear himfclf with his own hands ; but the conlci-►nable praftice thereof being holy triumph in God,I n/t hnw iivept is _thaf !—.The unfneabable cram of4Th« laft wor<fe of Chriflian Kerr.godlincfs ftiould entice us to begin and procure thefindy thereof with all fpeed and dilligence, Ilai. xxx.17. ‘ rheworksofnghteoufndsisquietndsandaffu-* ranee for ever. Prov. xiv. 3a. The wicked is driven* away inhis wickednelefs but the right emis have hope‘ in bis death. Plalni xxxviii. 37. Mark the perkd‘ man and behold the upright, tor the end of that man* is peace, and Pfalm xcvii. 1. Light is town for the* righteous, and gladnefs for the upright in heart*‘Prov. xi. 13. To him that lowcth rightcoulnels* iliall be a reward Tim iv. 8. Godlinds is profi.* tabic unto all all things, having the premife of the 1‘ life that now is, and that which is to come ’in the fecond place, what is above related, fervesf or confutation; it may confute atheiftical perlons whoI fly inlolcntly in the face of God. and offer a direftj; blow to the Almighty denying his being, providence ,■andeternal recompcnces. O! foolidt perlons did Godcreate you to deny him ? Does not the rifing and frt-tiag of the fun, the blowing and turnings of winds* 1| thegethering balai.cing, and dropping of clouds, and rrunning of waters into one place, the giowing of; the herhs and trees the finging and neftlnig of thebirds, the ebbing and flowing of the fea, the hang¬ing of the eartli in the air, the admirable virtue ofthe loidftone in attiadionof iron ;the fucccffivc pro.■ i duction of living creatures ; the adjuring of deathsunto birds, fo as the one neither hinder the multi¬plication of mankind, nor the other overftocks theworld ; do not thele. I fay, and innumerable other in-fiances. claim ihe natural being, and wife providenceof God i What a ff upenduous frame and mechanilmis the body of man ; doth not the cu-ioalnels varie- 1ty, dependence and ulefulnefs of the parts thereof, “fhew forth the admirable of the contriver? was there:ever a houle but it had a builder, or a watch but it had n,•maker / or a picture but it had a limner? even foI can we fuppofc, without doing violence to common! \*5Who died at Edinburgh,nfe, that io many regular and ufeful produAionsi are in the lyltem of the world, could be formedid managed without the hand of an Almighty andtclligent Agent! Wherefore, we muft conclude,at, nothing is more evident than tbe being and pru¬dence of a God. Since there are as many demon-rations thereof, as there are creatures in the uni*,rlc, and as there are parta in every creature, Rom.ilia. “ Theinvifible things of him from the creationof the world arc clearly feen, being under flood byhe things that are made, even by his eternal powetflind Godhead, Pfalm cxxxix. 14.1 will praife thee,lor I am fearfully and wonderfully made j marvel¬ous are the works,” &c.The exiltence of God being abundantly demon-!ble from the general compofition of tne world,from natures virtues, tendencies and ules of par-lar beings it follows nectflarily, that there is ae of eternal rewarding of the virtues, and pu.ting the vicious, is of the thence of God ; evenlight is of the nature of the lun: without which, wee no complete and right idea or conception of, as the fountain of all perft&ions.ten. xvt. 35 “ Shall not the judge of all the earthij right? Rum. x. 18. The wrath of Godis revealed' jpmhtaven againftallungodlinelsandunrighreoul-|ls of men. ^ ThtfT. i 6, 7. Seeing it is a righte-I s thing with God, to recc mpencc tribulations to:m who trouble you i—-And to you who are trou-^d, reft with us, when the Lord Jefus fliall hesealed from heaven with his mighty angels &C.”I te denial of an af icr- ftate of rewards and piSnifti-s is againft the general traditions of the world,mmon fentimems of mankind, whether Jews,s, or Chriftians, all (although they difler in ma-ngs yetj do agiee in this, that the good fliall beIjj, and the bad wretched in another world. And|s againft the general tradition of the world fo.i* The lift words of Chtiftiaii Kerr, &c.it contradids the proper experience both of wicland pious perfons on their death-beds, which is <fmore force than a thouland oppofite arguments. IWhat a heliifh fting have the ungodly felt in thejconfcicnces, when they were on the brink of ete|nity and of anorher world i In the tinpe of healland profperity. fin has been fweet to them like hone ibut aflrighting and bitter has in been to them wh|they came to die, Then they have defired the coufifels and prayers of minifters, and confriF d to the;their fojly and negligence ; how they have treat|,them with contempt and fcorn in their time- |iWhat a worm did Francis Spira feed ? He waslikdjiliving man in hell! how deep were his convictions? Ivjfrightful hislooks ? hojv delperatehis complaints? h*|grievous his agonie ? was he not fond of makingawwith himlelf with his ownhands, amidlt hisborroraanguifii ? I have had littie pleafure here, laid Rog<Jbut now I muff away to hell for evermore.Chalaner was a moft dreadful monument of jtifce, he blalphaned the God of heaven, curling b|felf, and crying continually, O torture, tortureltorture, torture ! as if both loul and body had balready in hell, befides what lenfible experiehave the godly at death, of their after recompeilare they not fometimes put into heaven before, Ibanqderted with the amipafts of.that joy that ravifthe blclfed to all eternity ! the above-mentioned cwas an apparent inftance to this purpofe ; fhethe lapfes of the fpirit, the incomes of Chrifl’s hthe views and glampfes of the land of promiie, wmade her glad to leave this world, and be everdie Lord.FINIS.