[No. 5.THE LIFEAND UNPARALLELEDVOYAGES AND ADVENTURESAMBROSE GWINNETT;Containing an Account of his being Tried, Convicted, andHanged in Chains at Deal, for the supposed Murder of MrCollins—his surprising Recovery—his Voyage to the WestIndies, and being taken by the Spaniards, among whom hemet with the supposed murdered Mr Collins, and proposalto return to England together—his being taken by theAlgerines and carried into slavery, and, after many hard¬ships, his return to England.WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.SOUTH HANOVER STREET.' : : T ■ . ' ■;TT3M ilWS' : 0 / - " . ^ ^ S3ao7/aili oi ogfivoY aixl—; >9/1 f11 aii—«a: !!- ''• I.! r; ■'-vioc•/ ti:; ju -V1' , ' ; L |-bw.-i uu loJl.; ,I*n< ,T: 1 otai fcwneo Bn* *ri’i ao3t/:THELIFE AND ADVENTURESOFAMBROSE GWINNETTI was born of reputable parents In the city of Can ¬terbury, where my father dealt in hops. He hadbut two children, a daughter and myself; and hav-ing given me a good education, at the age of sixteenhe bound me an apprentice to Mr George Roberts,an attorney in the same town, with whom I stayednearly five years, to his great content and my ownsatisfaction.My sister, being come to woman’s estate, had nowbeen married something more than twelve monthsto one Sawyer, a seafaring man, who had got consi¬derable prizes ; and my father giving him L.200 withmy sister, he quitted his profession, and set up apublic-house within three miles of the place of hisnativity, which was Deal, in the county of Kent.I had frequent invitations to pass a short time withthem ; and, in the autumn of the year 1710, havingobtained my master’s consent for that purpose, I leftthe city of Canterbury on foot on a Wednesdaymorning, being the 17th day of September; but,through some unavoidable delay on the road, theevening was considerably advanced before I reachedDeal; and I was so tired, being unaccustomed to thatway of travelling, that, had my life depended uponit, I could not have got so far as my sister’s that night.At this time, there were many of her Majesty Queen-^,xURES OF4 .o snips lying in the harbour, the English beingthen at war with the French and Spaniards; besideswhich, I found fhis was the day for holding the half-yearly fair, so that the town was filled to such adegree, that a bed was not to be had for love or money.I went seeking a lodging from house to house to nopurpose, till, being quite spent, I returned to thepublic-house where I had first made inquiry, desir¬ing leave to sit by their kitchen-fire, to rest myselfuntil morning.The publican and his wife where I put up happened,unfortunately for me, to be acquainted with mybrother and sister; and finding, by my discourse, thatI was a relation of theirs, and going to visit them,the landlady presently said she would endeavour toget me a bed, and, going out of the kitchen, sheshortly after called me into a parlour that led fromit. Here I saw, sitting by the fireside, a middle-agedman, in a night-gown and cap, reckoning money ata table. “ Uncle," said the woman, as soon as Ientered, “ this is a brother of our friend, Mrs Sawyer;he cannot get a bed anywhere, and is tired after hisjourney; you are the only one that lies in this housealone, will you give him a part of yours ?" To thisthe man answered, that she knew he had been outof order, that he was bled that day, consequently, abedfellow could not be very agreeable. However,said he, rather than the young man should sit up,he is welcome to sleep with me. After this, we sata while together ; when, having put his money, in acanvass bag, into the pocket of his night-gown, hetook the caudle, and I followed him to bed.How long I slept I cannot exactly determine, but Iconjectured it was about three o’clock in the morning,when I awakened with the colic, attended with themost violent gripes. I attributed this to some baconand cabbage I had eaten the former day for dinner,after which I had drunk a large draught of milk.I found my chum awake as well as myself. He askedAMBROSE GWINNETT.me what was the matter. I informed him, and atthe same time begged he would direct me to thenecessary. He told me that, when down stairs, Imust turn to ray right hand, and go straight into thegarden, at the end of which it' was, just over thewater; but, added he, you may possibly find somedifficulty in opening the door, the string being brokenwhich pulls up the latch ; I will give you a penknifewith which }’ou may open it, through a chink in theboards. So saying, he put his hand into his waist¬coat pocket, which lay over him on the bed, andgave me a middling-sized penknife.I hurried on a few of my clothes, and went downstairs ; but I must observe that, unclasping the pen¬knife to open the door of the necessary, according tohis direction, a piece of money, which had stuck be¬tween the blade and the groove in the handle, fellinto my hand. I did not examine what it was, nor,indeed, could I well see, there being then but a veryfaint moonlight, so I put them very carelessly togetherin my pocket.I apprehend I stayed in the garden about half anhour, for I was extremely ill, and, by overheatingmyself with walking the preceding day, brought onthe piles, a disorder I was subject to from my youth.These seem trifling circumstances, but they after-wards turned out of infinite importance to me. WhenI returned to my chamber, I was surprised to findmy bedfellow gone. I called several times, but notreceiving any answer, I took it for granted that hehad withdrawn into some adjoining closet for hisprivate occasions. I therefore went to bed again, andfell asleep.About six o’clock I arose, nobody being yet up inthe house. The gentleman was not yet returned tobed, or if he was, had again left it. I then dressedmyself with what haste I could, being impatient tosee my sister; and the reckoning being paid over¬night, I let myself out at the street-door.0ABVENTniU.S OFI will not trouble you with an account of thekindness with which my sister and her husband re¬ceived me. We breakfasted together; and I believeit might be about eleven o’clock in the forenoon,when, standing at the door, my brother-in-law being'at my side, we saw three horsemen galloping towardsus. As soon as they came up, they stopped, and,one of them alighting, suddenly seized my collar,crying, “ You are the Queen’s prisoner.” I desiredto know my crime ; he said I should knowr that assoon as I came to Deal, where I must go immedi¬ately with them. One of them told my brother thatthe night before I had committed a robbery and amurder.Judge, O reader, of my painful situation. Youare aware of my innocence ; but how was I to provethis satisfactorily to the minds of those who had ar¬rested me, and to those who were to be my judges ?Circumstances were completely against me. Wouldthey believe my-story of having received the knifefrom my bedfellow ? If I swear I am totally igno¬rant what has become of him, will they believe me ?These, and a thousand other things, rushed into mymind at the moment of my apprehension. But whatwas to be done in this emergency? they wmuld besatisfied with nothing but my person ; and to offersecurity for my appearance at trial, even if i couldhave procured friends to become surety for my sodoing,—the sum, if sum they would have taken, asI was charged with murder, would have been sogreat, that even here I would have failed. Therewas no course left, therefore, but to commit myselfinto the hands of an all-seeing Providence, trustinglie would so order the course of his events as wouldclearly shew my innocence.Resistance, therefore, would have proved as vain asmy tears and protestations of my innocence. In aword, a warrant was produced, and I was carried backto Deal by the three men ; my brother, with anotherAMBROSE GWINNETT.7fri<‘iul, accompanying me, who knew not what tosay, or how to comfort me.Being arrived in town, I was instantly hurried tothe house where I had slept the preceding night,the master of which was one of the three men whocame to apprehend me, though, in my first hurry,I did not recollect him. We were met at the doorby a crowd of people, every one-crying, “Which ishe ?” “ which is he ?” As soon as I entered, I wasaccosted by the publican’s wife in tears, “ O cursedwretch, what hast thou done ? thou hast murderedand robbed my poor dear uncle, and all through me,who put thee to lie with him. But where hast thouhid his money ? and what hast thou done with hisbody ? Thovi shalt be hanged on a gallon s as highas a Maypole.”My brother begged of her to he pacified, and Iwas taken into a private room. They then beganto question me, as the woman had done, as lo whereI had put the money, and how I had disposed of thebody. I asked them what money, and whose bodythey meant ? They then said I had killed the personI had slept with the preceding night, for the sakeof a large sum of money I had seen him with. Ifell down on my knees, calling on God to witnessthat I knew nothing about what they accused me of.Then somebody cried, “ Carry him up stairs and Iwas taken to the chamber where I had slept. Herethe man of the house went to the bed, and, turningdown the clothes, shewed the sheets, pillows, andbolster dyed in blood. He asked me if I knewanything of that ? I declared to God I did not. Saida person that was in the room, “ Young man, some¬thing very odd must have happened here last night,for, lying in the next chamber, I heard groanings,and goings up and down stairs more than once ortwice.” I told them the circumstance of my illness,and that I had been up and down myself, with allthat passed between my bedfellow and mo. Some-8ADVENTUKES OFbody proposed to search me; several began to turnmy pockets inside out, and from my waistcoat tum¬bled the penknife and the piece of money I havealready mentioned.Upon seeing these, the woman immediately scream¬ed out, “ O mercy! there is my uncle’s penknife.”Then taking up the money, and calling the peopleabout her, “ here,” said she, “ is what puts the vil¬lain’s guilt beyond a doubt: I can swear to thisWilliam and Mary’s guinea; my uncle has long hadit by way of a pocket-piece, and engraved the firstletters of his name upon it." She then began tocry again, while I could do nothing but continue tocry to heaven to witness that I was as innocent asthe child unborn. After this they took me downto the necessary, and here fresh proofs appearedagainst me. The constable, who had never left me,perceiving blood upon the edge of the seat, (whichprobably might proceed from my being troubled withthe hemorrhage the night before,) “ here," said she,“ after having cut his throat, he has let down thebody into the sea.” To this every body immediatelyassented. “ Then,” said the master of the house,“it is in vain to look for the body any further; forthere was a spring-tide last night, which has carriedit off.”The consequence of these proceedings was an im¬mediate examination before a Justice of the Peace;after which I suffered a long and rigorous imprison¬ment in the county-town, Maidstone. For sometime, my father, master, and relations were inclinedto think me innocent; and, in compliance with myearnest request, an advertisement was published inthe London Gazette, representing my deplorablecircumstances, and offering a reward to any personwho could give tidings of Mr Richard Collins, (thename of the man I was supposed to have murdered,)either alive or dead. No information, however, ofany kind came to hand. At the assizes, therefore,AMBROSE GWINNETT.9I was brought to trial, and circumstances appearingstrongly against me, I received sentence to be carriedin a cart, the Wednesday fortnight following, to thetown of Deal, and there to be hanged before theinnkeeper’s door where I had committed the murder,after which I was to be hung in chains within alittle of my brother’s house.Nothing could have supported me under thisdreadful condemnation but consciousness of my notbeing guilty of the crime for which I was to suffer.My friends now began to consider my declarationsof innocence as persisting in falsehood to the perditionof my soul. Many of them discontinued their in¬quiries after me; and those few who still came tovisit me only came to urge me to a confession; butI was resolved that I would never die with a lie ofthat kind in my mouth.The Monday before the fatal day now arrived,when an end was to be put to my miseries. I wascalled down into the court of the prison ; but I con¬fess I was not a little shocked when I found it wasto be measured for the irons in which I was to behanged after execution. A fellow-prisoner appearedbefore me in the same woful plight, (he had robbedthe mail;) and the smith was measuring him whenI came’down, while the gaoler, with as much calm¬ness as if he had been ordering a pair of stays tohis daughter, was giving directions in what mannerthe irons should be made, so as to support the man,who was remarkably heavy and corpulent.Between this and the day of my execution, I spentmy time alone in meditation and prayer. At length,Wednesday morning came, and about six o’clock Iwas put into the cart; but sure such a day of wind,rain, and thunder, never blew out of the heavens ;it pursued us all the way; and when we arrived atDeal, it became so violent, that the sheriff and bisofficers, who had not a dry thread about them, couldscarcely sit on their horses. For my own part, myADVENTURES OF10mind, God help me! was, with long agitation, be¬come so unfeeling, that I was in a manner insensibleto every object about me ; but I heard, without theleast emotion, the sheriff whisper to the executionerto make what dispatch he could, and I sufferedhim to tuck me up like a log of wood, being uncon¬scious of what he was doing.I can give no account of what I felt while I washanging, only that I remembered, after being turnedoff, something for a little appeared about me like ablaze of fire; nor do I know how long I hung. Nodoubt, the violence of the weather favoured megreatly in that circumstance. What I am now go¬ing to tell you, I learned from my brother; whichwas, that, after having living for about half an hour,the sheriff’s officers all went off, and I was cut downby the executioner; but when he came to put theirons upon me, it was found a mistake had beenmade, and that the irons of the other man, whichwere much too large for me, had been sent insteadof mine. This they remedied as well as they couldby stuffing rags between my body and the hoopsthat surrounded it; after which I was taken, accord¬ing to my sentence, to the place appointed, and hungon a gibbet, which was ready prepared.The cloth over my face was but slightly tied, andsuffering no pressure from the irons, which stood agreat way from it, was, I suppose, soon detached bythe wind, which was then rather violent; and pro¬bably itsjblowing upon my bare face expedited myrecovery; certain it is, that in this awful and tre¬mendous situation I came to myself.It was no doubt a very great blessing that I didnot immediately return so perfectly to my senses asto have a feeling of things about me ; yet I had asort of recollection of what had happened,^und insome measure was sensible where I was.The gibbet was placed in a corner of a small com¬mon field where my sister’s cows usually wentandAMBROSE GWINNETT.11it pleased God, that, about this time, a lad, who tookcare of them, came to drive them home for eveningmilking. The creatures, which were feeding almostunder me, brought him near the gibbet, when, stop¬ping to look at the melancholy spectacle, he per¬ceived that the cloth was from off my face, and, inthe very moment he looked up, saw me open myeyes and move my under jaw. He immediately ranhome to inform the people at his master’s. At lirst,they had some difficulty in believing his story ; butat length my brother came out, and, by the time hearrived at the field, I was so far recovered that mygroans were very audible.It was now dusk. The first thing they ran forwas a ladder. One of my brother’s men mounted,and, putting his hand to my stomach, felt my heartbeat very strongly. But it was found impossible todetach me from the gibbet without cutting it down.A saw, therefore, was got for that purpose, and, with¬out giving you a detail of trifling circumstances, inless than half an hour, having freed me from myirons, they got me bled, and put me into a warmbed in my brother’s house.It is an amazing thing, that, though upwards ofeight persons were acquainted with this transaction,and 1 remained three days in the place after it hap¬pened, not a creature divulged tlie secret. Earlynext morning, it was known that the gibbet was cutdown, and it immediately occurred to every bodythat it was done by my relations, in order to put aveil over their own shame, by burning the body.But, when my brother was summoned to the mayor’shouse in order to be questioned, and he denied know¬ing anything of the matter, little more stir was madeabout it; partly because he was greatly respected byall the neighbouring gentlemen, and, in some mea¬sure, perhaps, because it was known that 1 continuedto persist strongly in my being innocent of the crimefor which I suffered12ADVENTURES OFThus, then, was I most miraculously deliveredfrom an ignominious death, if I may call my com¬ing to life a delivery after all I had endured. Buthow was I to dispose of my life now that I hadregained it ? To stay in England was impossible,without exposing myself to the terrors of the law.In this dilemma, a fortunate circumstance occurred.There had been, for some time, at my brother’s house,one or two of the principal officers of a privateer,that was preparing to cruise, just then ready to sail,and the captain kindly offered to take me on boardwith him. You may guess that little ceremony wasmade on our side to accept of such a proposal; andproper necessaries being quickly provided for me,my sister recommended me to the protection ofGod and the worthy commander, who most hu¬manely received me as sort of under-assistant to hissteward.We had been six months out upon our cruise,having had but very indifferent success, when, beingon the coast of Florida, then in the hands of theSpaniards, we unfortunately fell in with a squadronof their men-of-war, and, consequently, being takenwithout striking a blow, we were all carried prison¬ers into the harbour of Havanna. I was really nowalmost weary of my life, and should have been veryglad to have ended it in the loathsome dungeon,where, with forty others of my unfortunate country¬men, the enemy had stowed me; but after threeyears’ close confinement, we were let out, in orderto be put on board transports, and conveyed toPennsylvania, and from thence to England. This,as you may believe, was a disagreeable sentence tome, taking it for granted that a return home wouldbe a return to the gallows.Being now, therefore, a tolerable master of theSpanish language, I solicited very strongly to be leftbehind ; which favour I obtained by means of themaster of the prison, with whom, during my confine-AMBROSE GWINNETT.13ment, I had contracted a sort of intimacy, and henot only took me into his house as soon as my coun¬trymen were gone, but, in a short time, he procuredme a salary from the governor for being his deputy.Indeed, at this particular time, the office was byno means agreeable. The coast had long been in¬fested with pirates, the most desperate gang ofj villains that can be imagined, and there was scarcelya month passed that one or other of their vessels didnot fall into the governor’s hands, and the crew asconstantly put under my care. Once I Very nar¬rowly escaped being knocked on the head by one ofthe ruffians, and having the keys wrested from me;at another time I was shot at. It is true, in bothcases, the persons suffered for their attempt, and inthe last case a little too cruelly, for the fellow whoi let off the carbine was not only put to the torture to(confess his accomplices, hut afterwards broken uponlithe wheel, where he was left to expire, the mostI shocking spectacle I ever beheld.I had been in my office about three months, whena ship arrived from Port-Royal, another SpanishI settlement on the coast, with nine English prisoners:on board. I was standing in the street as they werelooming up from the port with a guard of soldiers tothe governor’s house. On looking in the face of onelof the prisoners, it immediately occurred to me thatI had formerly been acquainted with him. I could)not then stop them to speak together; hut, in anhour after, they w'ere all brought down to the prison,there to be lodged till the governor had signified his1 further pleasure.As soon as the poor creatures found that I wasan Englishman, they were extremely happy, even intheir distressing situation; though, indeed, theywere treated with lenity enough, and were only sentto the prison until a suitable lodging could be pro-i vided tor them, they having been, in the course ofi the war, made prisoners by the Spaniards as well asI14ADVENTURES ORmyself, and were then on their return home. I had,therefore, now an opportunity of taking notice of theman whose face I thought I knew, and I was moreand more convinced that I was not mistaken ; in aword, I verily thought this man was the person forwhose supposed murder 1 had suffered so much inEngland, and the thought was so strong in my head,that I could not sleep a w'iuk all night.On the morning after their arrival, I told themthat if any of them wished to walk about and seethe town, I could procure them permission, and goalong with them. This man said he would go, andthis was what I wished. Three other prisoners,who went out along with us, walked a little in ad¬vance. I now took the opportunity, and lookingin his face, “ Sir,” said I, “ were you ever at Deal ?”I believe he, at that instant, had some recollection ofme, for, putting his hand upon my shoulder, tearsburst into his eyes. “ If you have,” said I, “ andyou be the man I take you for, you here see beforeyou one of the most unfortunate of human kind.Sir, is your name Collins ?” He answered it was.“ Richard Collins?” said I. He replied, yes. “ Then,”said I, “ I was hanged and gibbeted on your accountin England."After our mutual surprise was over, he made megive him a circumstantial detail of everything thathappened to me in England from the moment weparted. I never saw any man express such concernas he did while I was pursuing my melancholy ad¬ventures ; but when I came to the circumstance ofmy being hanged, and afterwards hung in chains, Icould hardly prevail on him to believe my relationtill backed by the most serious asseverations, pro¬nounced in the most solemn manner. When I haddone, “ Well,” said he, “ young man, (for I wms thenbut in my tive-and twentieth year ; Mr Collins mightbe about three-and-forty,) if you have sustained anymisfortunes upon my account, do not imagine, thoughAMBROSE GWINNETT. 15cannot lay them at your door, that I have beenwithout my sufferings. God knows my heart, I amexceedingly sorry for the injustice that has been donei you ; but the ways of Providence are unsearchable.”He then proceeded to inform me by what accidentMl my troubles had been brought about.“ When you left me in bed,” said he, “ having atirst awakened with an impression I could not ac¬count for, I found myself growing exceedingly sickund feeble. I did not know what was the matter ;if groaned and sighed, and thought myself going tolie, when, accidentally putting my hand to my leftiirm, in which I had been bled the morning before,if found my shirt wet, and, in short, that the bandageaad slipped, and the orifice being again opened, thatnji great flux of blood had ensued. This immediately•Accounted for the condition in which I found myself.If thought, however, that I would not disturb theJjamily, who, I knew, had all gone to bed very late ;if therefore mustered all my strength, and got upJivith my night-gown loose about me, for the purpose>f going to a neighbouring haircutter, in order toluave the blood stopped, and the bandage replaced.iHe lived directly opposite our house ; but, when I(was crossing the way to knock at his door, a baudj>f men, armed with cutlasses and hangers, came'ilown the town, and, seizing me, hurried me towardiibe beach. I begged and prayed, but they soonfeilenced my cries. At first, I took them for a press-gang, though I afterwards found they were a gang ofifuffians belonging to a privateer, aboard of whichJthey immediately took me; however, before I gotiithere, the loss of blood caused me to faint away!ffhe surgeon of the ship, I suppose, tied my arm ;tor, when my senses returned, I found myself in anammock, with somebody feeling my pulse; the ves-lel was then under weigh.5 t asked where I was. They said I wras safe enough.immediately called for my night-gown; it wasI16ADVENTURES OFbrought me; but of a considerable sum of mone;that was in the pocket of it I could get no account.I complained to the captain of the violence that haibeen done me, and the robbery his men had committed; but, being a brutish fellow, he laughed amy grief, and told me, if I had lost anything I shoulsoon have prize-money enough to make amends. Ina word, not being able to help myself, I was obligedto submit; and, for three months, they forced me twork before the mast. In the end, however, we melthe same fate that you did. We were taken by tinSpaniards, and, by adventures parallel with your ownyou now see me here on my return to my nativt]country, whither, if you will accompany me, I shathink myself extremely happy.There was nothing now to prevent my return!to England ; and a ship being to set sail in eight o Iten days, Mr Collins and I determined to embark b[it. As soon as we returned home, I went to m;master and told him my resolution ; he did not dissuade me from it, chiefly, I suppose, because it gavhim an opportunity of getting the little office I hebfor a nephew of his, who was lately come to livwith him, to whom the same day I delivered tbitrust. And here the providence of God was no lesremarkable to me than in other particulars of m.life ; for, the same night, eight or ten pirates, whwere in the prison, watched the occasion, while thiyoung man was locking up the wards, to seize himtaking the keys from him after having left him fcdead ; and, before the alarm was sufficiently givenfive of them made their escape, having, as was supposed, got off the coast by means of the piratiiboats, which were kept constantly hovering aboutIt was on the 18t'h of November 1712, that, haTling made all my little preparations, I sent my truiijaboard the Nostra Senora, a merchant-ship, hourfor Cadiz; Michael Deronza, master. The vessiwas to set sail that evening, and lie in the roadAMBROSE GWINNETT.17)out three miles from the town. About sevenoelock in the evening, being then sitting with Signorasper, my old friend and master, in the portico of hisp juse, a lad came up, and said that a boat had beenaiting half an hour for me at the port, and that my: impanion, Mr Collins,- was already on hoard. I ranto the house for my small bundle, and only stayedtake leave of one or two of the family. I madehat haste I could to the quay ; but, when I arrived,I! found the boat had put off, leaving word that Iould overtake them at a little bay about a miler yond the town. The dusk was coming on. I ranimg the shore, and, as I imagined, soon had sight! the boat, to which I hallooed as loud as I wasfe; they answered, and immediately put about toe me in. But we had scarcely got fifty yardspm land, when, on looking about for my friend, Mri dlins, I missed him; and then it was I found I: d made a mistake, and, instead of getting on boardm own boat, which was now a considerable wayupead, I got into a boat belonging to some of thehates. I attempted to leap overboard, and couldIsily have swam ashore, but was prevented by onethe crew, who gave me a stroke on the head,oiich immediately laid me senseless; and I foundJerwards that they mistook me for one of their ownn, who had been purchasing goods in the town.A more infernal crew than these pirates neverlathed upon the face of the earth. Their wholees was a scene of rapine and murder, which, if theyd no opportunity of committing upon the wretchesti^t fell into their clutches during their piratical pur-ts, they committed on one another. During there I remained with them, nearly four years, therere no less than elevenassassinations amongst them-There was an uninhabited island in the Gulf4ves.(Mexico which those villains called Swallow Island,im the great number of those birds which harbouron it. Here they had a fortification ; and the place10 ADVENTURES'hFbeing rendered almost inaccessible by rocks, except,at one little inlet, just large enough to admit a single:vessel, they defied the Spanish power.The captain was one Bryan Walsh, an Irishman,,whom I cannot help calling a most execrable andlbloody villain, though the Almighty put it into hisheart to be a very good friend to me. When I wasbrought into the ship, and immediately after into thecaptain’s cabin, the first person that accosted me wasone of the fellows that broke out of the prison, anili|i:had formerly been under my care. He knew me di-l;rectly ; and, without more ado, drawing out his dag-tger, aimed a stroke at me, which, falling on my neCkJjentered deep into the flesh, and must infallibly havepput an end to my life had not the captain prevented^it by raising his cane between him and me, and brokeJwthe force of the blow. From that moment, he seemedjto take me under his protection. At his own request,pI gave him a history of my own life, which asto-pnished him greatly ; but notwithstanding I pleadedhard to go on shore again, he absolutely refused ; and.in spite of all my entreaties, brought me to the island Iand fortification I have already mentioned, where, ifinding I could read and write, two qualifications hewanted himself, he thought I might be of use to him.I have already said that with these people I re¬mained nearly four years ; on land, I acted as store-1keeper, and, at sea, as a sort of purser to the ship. Imay observe, that there was always a suflicient num-1her of hands left on the island to man the fort, whichwas so situated as effectually to prevent the approachof the enemy. Indeed, the office of storekeeper waita place of great trust. You would hardly credit mojwere I to attempt to tell you of the immense riche! <these robbers had amassed together. One articl*alone will be sufficient to give you an idea of it. Un-1der one shed, I counted three thousand eight hundreobales of English goods ; and I may safely declarethat in other merchandise, of almost every kind, thejAMBROSE GWINNETT.19u,11 notliiog behind; and, on an average, there couldit he loss in their coffers than two lumdred thousandjounds sterling in specie, besides an immense quan-j tj of gold and silver in bars.The continual terror that was upon my mind whileremained with these people, is not to be imagined ;ut to give you a detail of the manner of my lifebile I endured the worst of bondage, would bealious, because it had no variety; and shocking,boot, as I was forced to join in all their horridihemes. I shall only tell you that, in one of ourtuises, we met with a Jamaica ship, and hoisted|ur black colours. Having boarded her, because sheade some resistance, and killed one of our men, theaptain ordered that the whole crew should be mas-cred. The wicked command was executed uponi re master, five seamen, and a boy ; then, taking thergo out, which proved to be rum and sugar, wetlruttled the ship, and returned to our fortification,ut see how the avenger of wicked deeds makes theuit of our crimes our punishment! This cargo ofm, which was of a kind not many degrees short ofjuafortis, was drunk by the men with such avidity,at, in little more than three days, out of our com-ement of eighteen men, seven absolutely lost theires by it, among whom was the captain.I cannot but confess that I had some attachmentthis man, because he appeared particularly at-ched to me ; when, therefore, I saw him lyinguseless on the floor, overgorged with that infernalquor, I did everything I could to recover him, andfar succeeded as to bring him to his senses ; butle quantity he had drunk inflamed his bowels to aegree not to be assuaged by any lenitives that werei my power to procure for him. He was seizedith intermitting convulsions, that carried him offte next day ; but, about four hours before he died,e called me, in the presence of all the men whoood about him in the cabin, and desired me to sit20ADVENTURES OFflown with pen and ink to draw out his will, llufleft me sole heir to his share of the booty, signinthe paper with his mark; which paper, throughseries of unheard-of misfortunes, I have preserve^in my custody ever since.We buried the captain next day; and, on inspection, and dividing the treasure, I found myself wortlconsiderably more than forty thousand pounds sterling. The persons now remaining in our company.1were Joseph Wright, Andrew Yan Hooten, a Dutchman, James Winter, and myself, the four principalsbesides four common men, to whom we assigned fivithousand pounds each, which we gave to them idollars; nor did I observe any discontent amonthem on account of the bequest the captain had madejme.All my thoughts were immediately bent on getting!off the island to some of the English settlements,plainly perceived that my companions again wantedto be at their old practice; but, one day, talking otanother cruise, I represented to them the danger anduncomfortable situation we were in, and that we hacjeach a very ample fortune to support us in any pariof the world,—it was my advice, therefore, that wreshould immediately put all our treasure on boardwith as much of the merchandise as wre could con-|veniently carry, and make the best of our way telJamaica, where there was no doubt but v'e shoulcjbe well received.They agreed to this proposal with more alacritthan I thought they would. We fell immediatelyto work, and, in two days, were prepared to sailBut, though vre put a considerable quantity of baleson board, what remained still in the warehouse wasastonishing. I warned the fellows of their rapacity,and the danger of too heavily lading the ship ; butthey would not give over till she could hold no more :and then the treasure packed in chests, each man’share separate to himself, we put into the cabin.AMBROSE GWINNETT.21i We weighed anchor on the 3d of August, and fordiree days had excellent weather; but, on the fourth,4 storm began to threaten, and the symptoms stillincreasing, by midnight such a hurricane was raisedIetween heaven and earth as I never was witness to.ibout three o’clock, we were obliged to heave the shipnder her bare poles, and the sea ran so exceedinglyigh, that we could not venture to keep any lights'board, though the night was so dark that we couldicarcely see one another at a quarter of a yard’s dis-ance; the wind still increasing, the main-mastprang about six feet from the deck, so that nothingould save it. We now began to feel the consequenceIf lading the vessel too deeply. The first thing wellrrew overboard were our guns ; and, as our case be-me more and more desperate, everything followedlem, not excepting the chests of treasure. Thuswas once more reduced to my original state of po-erty. As daylight appeared, the storm abated. Ween, as well as we were able, erected jury-masts,in about three hours, managed with the greatestifficulty to get the vessel under sail.I was then standing by the man at the wheel,aning against the mizen-mast, returning Godanks in my own mind for our amazing escape,hen the boatswain came up to me, and said, egad,r Gwinnett, you have brought us into a pretty holeacre ; if it had not been for you, we should not haveciken this trip, and lost the substance we have beenforking for so many years, but you loop too, I as¬pire you. I asked him what he meant ? He said| e w ould soon let me see ; upon which he and twroHr three others came behind me, seized me by the. ipe of the neck and the waistband of the breeches,' id forced me over the rails of the quarterdeck intoic sea.: The shock of the fall, and the maze I wTas in fromich unexpected treatment, almost bereaved me of:y senses. I endeavoured, however, to keep myselfADVENTURES OF22above the water as well as I could, though I had nohopes of saving my life. My first attempt was toswim after the ship ; hut, finding that impracticable, Iturned about, and I believe I had swam for three-quarters of an hour, when, being very faint and weak,I began to put up my last prayer to God, and deter¬mined to commit myself to the bottom of the deep ;but, at that instant, turning my head a little aside, 11!saw, at a small distance from me, what at first I tookfora barrel; but what was my joy and astonishment,when, coming near, I perceived it to be one of our ownboats, which had been washed overboard the nightbefore, and, to complete my joy, the oars were lashedto the seat! Almost spent, as I was, I made shift to fget upon it; and here I saw myself freed in a miraculous manner from the fury of the waves; but, at; cthe same time, I found myself in an open boat, at Eleast sixty leagues from land, without a compass, or i:any kind of nourishment whatever, unless I might r'call tobacco some, which I found in a box in one o£ tmy waistcoat pockets; and I believe in my con¬science that it afforded me a nourishment which, ia !a great measure, helped to preserve me.It was a very great blessing for me that moderate Iweather followed the tempest, by which means I wafenabled to keep the boat tolerably steady. I could inot be less than thirty hours in that situation, wherI was taken by a Spanish carrick ; but I can hardljreckon that among my fortunate accidents ; for, orthe same day that I entered the ship, one of the mepilwhile I was asleep, hanging up my clothes among tinshrouds to dry, emptied my pockets, and finding sell-veral papers relative to the pirates’ affairs, on arriv jing at Port-Royal, whither they were bound, theseized me as one of the desperate gang.I must observe to you, that, when I first went intthe ship, I gave a false account of myself, which occasioned my ruin ; for, now confessing the truth, antelling them that I had b<5cn forced into the pirate$7AMBROSE GWINNETT.2.ij service, with all that had happened to me amongthem, my prevarication .made them suspect my vera-i| city, and I was two years in prison; when, by whatmeans I know not, some of the wretches with whomI left our island having been taken as pirates uponthe Spanish coast of Europe, an order came to bringme over to Cadiz, in Old Spain, in order to be evi¬dence. When I came there, I was detained formany months ; but at length, when the pirates werebrought up for trial, instead of being summoned forevidence, I found myself treated as a delinquent,and, with two others, condemned to the galleys fori life.I worked on board of them for several years,when a galley I belonged to was ordered to seaagainst an Algerine rover that infested the coast;but, instead of one, met with three of them. Theissue of an engagement was fatal to us. The greaterpart of the crew were killed, and the rest taken pri¬soners, among which last I was one, having lost myleg in the action.After this, I passed a long and painful slavery inAlgiers, till, with many other English captives, Iwas released, by agreement between the Dey ofAlgiers and his Britannic Majesty’s agent. In theyear 1730, I returned to England. The first thingI did was to inquire after my relations, but all thosenearest to me were dead; and I found that MrCollins had never returned home ; so I suppose hedied on his passage. Though not an old man, I wasso enfeebled by hardships that I was unable towork; and being without any manner of support,I could think of no way of getting my living but bysweeping the crossing between the Mews-gate andSpring Gardens, Charing-Cross, London ; and ulti¬mately, being even unable for this employment, Idepended on the generosity of a feeling and benevo¬lent public.The history of Ambrose Gwinnett is one which24 ADVENTURES OP AMBROSE GWINNETT-certainly should prove a very serious •framing to bothjudges and juries when called on to administer thelaw in similar cases. Better far to allow fifty guiltyindividuals to escape, than permit one innocent per¬son to suffer. And this is not a solitary case whereevidence as clear—hut yet as false—has been broughtagainst the culprit; and the truth of his innocencehas been discovered when it was impossible to re¬pair the injury. Though obliged to quit his nativeland for dread of again being apprehended, it musthave solaced Gwinnett’s mind when he reflectedthat he was innocent of the crime for which he hadto fly. How different would his feelings have beenhad he been guilty of the foul deed ! every tempestthat blew, every difficulty he encountered, everyhardship he experienced,—and these were not few,—would have kindled within his breast conscience’sting, and would have made him cry out, like oneof old,—“ My burden is heavier than I can bear.Oh! whither shall I flee to be freed from this per¬petual tormentor !” Such, reader, is the differencebetween the feelings of the innocent and the guilty .;iindividual.THE END.James Brydeno, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street, Edinburgh.