THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESOFROBINSON CRUSOE.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1858./<.i c-ci'-nji'tiT,ao 'in 35 . KoaMiaoaTHE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OFROBINSON CRUSOE.I was born of a good family in the city of York, where myfather, who was a native of Bremen, had settled after his havinggot a handsome estate by merchandise. My brain was earlyfilled with rambling thoughts, and when I grew up, my fatheroften persuaded me to settle to some business, and my motherused the tenderest entreaties ; yet nothing could prevail on meto lay aside my desire of going to sea, notwithstanding theextreme uneasiness which my father and mother always showedat the thoughts of my leaving them. I hardened myself againstthe prudent and kind advice of my indulgent parents: andbeing one day at Hull, I met with one of my companions, whowas going to sea in his father’s ship, he easily persuaded me togo with him.On the 1st of September, 1651, I went on board this ship,which was bound for London, and without letting my fatherknow the rash and disobedient step I had taken, set sail; butno sooner was the ship out of the Humber, than the wind beganto blow, and the sea to rise in a most terrible manner. Havingnever been at sea before, I was extremely sick, and my mindwas filled with terror. I then began to grow sensible of mywickedness, in disobeying the best of parents.The next day the wind abated, and the sea grew calm; Iwas no longer sick, and my companion laughed at my fears.The weather continued calm for several days, and we at lengthcame into Yarmouth Roads, where we cast anchor to wait fora wind. On the eighth day, in the morning, the wind increased,and we had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and tocast our sheet-anchor. I now began to see terror and amaze¬ment in the faces even of the seamen themselves ; and as themaster passed by me, I could hear him say softly to himself,“Lord be merciful to us, we shall be lost.’’ When I heardthis I was terribly frightened; such a dismal sight I neverbefore saw, the sea ran mountains high, and broke upon usevery three or four minutes. The storm still increased, and I: saw (what is but too seldom seen) the master, the boatswain, andi several others at prayers, expecting that every moment the shipwould go to the bottom. The storm, however, began to abate,the master fired guns for help, and a light ship which had rodeit out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It waswith the utmost hazard that it came near us; and our mencasting a rope over the stern with a buoy, they after muchlabour and hazard got hold of it, and we, hauling them closeunder the stern, got all into the boat. But we had hardly leftthe ship a quarter of an hour, when we saw her founder. Myheart seemed dead within me, with fright, horror of mind, andthe thoughts of what was yet before me. As it was impossiblefor the boat to get up with the ship to which she belonged, weendeavoured to reach the shore; and partly by rowing andpartly by being driven by the waves, we at last with greatdifficulty got to land, and walked to Yarmouth.Had I now had the sense to return home, my father wouldhave received me with tenderness; but a weak and foolishshame opposed all thoughts of it. I remained some time inpounds, which I laid out in such toys and trifles, as he directedme to buy. But though in this voyage I was continually sick ;yet under my worthy friend, I got a competent knowledge ofthe mathematics, and the rules of navigation; learned how tokeep an account of the ship’s course, and to take an observation :this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant; for Ibrought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my> doubt what course to take, but having money in nJy pocket, I1 travelled to London by land.On my arrival in that city, I happily contracted an acquaint-i ance with the master of a ship who had been on the coast ofi Guinea : taking a fancy to me, he told me, that if I would goI the voyage with him, I should be at no expense; and if I wouldi carry any thing with me, I should have the advantage of tradingI for myself. Encouraged by this offer, by the assistance of some1 of my relations, with whom I still corresponded, I raised forty6adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return, almost£300.I waa now set up for a Guinea trader; but my friend, to mygreat misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to gothe same voyage again, and having left £200 in the hands ofmy friend’s widow, I embarked in the same vessel. This wasone of the most unhappy voyages that ever man made; for aswe were steering between the Canary islands and the Africanshore, we were surprised in the grey of the morning by aMoorish rover of Salee, who gave chase to us, with all the sailshe could make. Finding that the pirate gained upon us, andwould certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared tofight; our ship having twelve guns, and the pirate eighteen.About three in the afternoon he came up with us, and a verysmart engagement ensued; but after having twice cleared thedecks of the Moors, and lost three of our men, and had eightwounded; we were obliged to submit, and wo were all carriedprisoners into Salee, a port belonging to the Moors.I was kept by the captain of the rover as his own prize, andmade his slave.My master having the long-boat of our English ship, had alittle state room or cabin built in the middle of it, like a barge,with a place behind it to steer, and haul home the mainsheet,and another before, for a hand or two to stand and work thesails. In this pleasure boat we frequently went out a-fishing ;and one day he had appointed to go out with two or threeMoors of distinction, and had therefore sent over night a largerstore of provision than usual, and ordered me to get ready twoor three fusees with powder and shot, which were on board hisship, for that they designed to have sport at fowling as well asfishing. But in the morning he came on board, telling me thathis guest had declined going, and ordered me, with the manand boy, to sail out with the boat, and catch some fish, for hisfriends were to sup with him.At this moment the hopes of deliverance darted into mythoughts; every thing being prepared, we sailed out of theport to fish; but purposely catching none, I told Muley thatthis would not do, and that we must stand farther otf, which heagreeing to, we set the sails, and I having the helm, ran theboat out near a league farther, and then brought her to, as if Iwould fish; when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward,and stooping behind the Moor, took him by surprise, and tossedhim overboard into the sea; he arose immediately, for heswam like a cork, and called to mo to take him in ; but fetchingout one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at him, and toldhim, that if he came near the boat, I would shoot him, so ho/ \*timed about and swam towards the land ; and as he was anexcellent swimmer, I made no doubt but he reached the shorewith ease.When he was gone, I turned toXury, and said to him, “ Xury, ifwill make you a great man: butface to be true to me,” (that is,father’s beard,) “I must throw you into the sea too.” Thoboy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I couldnot mistrust him : he swore to be faithful to me, and go all overthe world with me.While I was in view of Muley, I stood out to sea, but it nosooner grew dark, than I changed my course, and steered to thosouth, I made such sail, that before the end of the next day, Ibelieve, I was beyond tho Emperor of Morocco’s dominions.Yet so dreadful were my apprehensions of falling again into mymaster’s hands, that I would not stop to go on shore, till I had8Bailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting tothe southward, I ventured to come to an anchor at the mouthof a little river.The principal thing I wanted was fresh water. But thoughI was no less afraid of the savages than of the wild beasts, ournecessities obliged us to land, for we had not a pint. The nextmorning Xury asked for one of the jars, and said he would goand seek for water. I asked him why he would go. The boyanswered with so much affection, that I could not help lovingnim. “ If wild man comes, they will eat me, you go away.”“ Well, Xury,” said I, “ wo will both go, and if the wild mencome wo will kill them ; they shall eat neither of us.”The boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country,rambled thither; and by-and-by I saw him come runningtowards me, when, thinking he might be pursued by somesavage or frightened by a wild beast, I ran to meet him, butwhen I came nearer I saw something hanging over his shoulder,which was a creature he had shot like a hare, and we found itvery good moat; but the great joy that Xury came with wasto tell me he bad found good water, and seen no wild mans.We therefore filled our jars, feasted on our hare, and then setsail.About ten days after, as I was steering out to sea, in orderto double a cape, I had the view of some islands, which Isupposed to be those of Cape Verd. I was afraid of venturingso far from the shore, for if I should be taken with a fresh galeof wind, I might never be able to reach again the one or theother. In this dilemma I sat down in the cabin, when on asudden Xury cried out in a fright, ‘‘ Master! Master! a ship,”foolishly imagining that it was his master’s ship, come so far inpursuit for us : I jumped out of the cabin, and saw that it wasa Portuguese vessel, and instantly stretched out to sea with allthe sail I could make ; they perceived me by the help of theirglasses, and shortened sail to let me come up. A Scots sailoron board galled to me, and I answered that I had made myescape from the Moors at Salee. They very kindly took moin and all my goods.We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived at AllSaint’s Bay, in about twenty-two days. The captain recom¬mended me to an honest man who had a plantation, with whomI lived till I had learnt the manner of planting and makingsugar, after which I purchased a piece of land, and became aplanter. I had lived here about four years, and had contractedan acquaintance among several merchants. I had frequentlytalked to them of the method of purchasing negroes on theCoast of Guinea, and they being pleased with the project, easilyprevailed on me to make a voyage for that purpose. We fittedout a ship of about 120 tons burden, which carried six guns andfourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself.In this vessel I set sail. We had very good weather forabout twelve days; but soon after we had crossed the line, aviolent hurricane drove us quite out of our reckoning, and formany days together not any in the ship expected to save theirlives. In this distress, one of our men early one morning criedout, “ Land 1 ” and we had no sooner run out of the cabin, inhopes of seeing where we were, but the ship struck upona shoal. It is not easy to conceive our consternation; for asthe rage of the sea was great, we supposed that the ship would,in a few minutes, break to pieces. We had a boat on board,which the mate laid hold of, and with the help of the rest of themen flung her over the ship’s side, and getting all into her,committed ourselves to God’s mercy. We steered towards land,10but after we had roweci, or rather been driven about a leagueand a half, a wave, moiintain high, came rolling astern of uswith such fury, that it overset the boat at once, and separatedus from one another. This wave carried me a vast way towardsthe shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me uponthe land almost dry, but half dead. I stood still a few momentsto recover breath, till the waters went from me, and then tookto my heels; and with all the strength I had left me, rantowards the shore. I got to the main land, clambered up theclifts of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass. Havingrested myself, I walked along the shore in search of fresh water :having found some and quenched my thirst, I put some tobaccoin my mouth, to prevent hunger, and having climbed a tree,rested myself till morning.I then found the sea calm, and the tide ebbed so far out, thatI could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship. Theweather being extremely hot, I pulled off my clothes, and tookto the water; but when I came to the ship, I found no meansof getting on board, she lying so high, that I could find nothingwithin my reach : I swam round her twice ; at last observing asmall piece of rope hanging down, I got hold of it, and got intothe forecastle. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and agreat deal of water in the hold; but to my great joy I sawthat all the ship’s provisions were dry, and being well disposedto eat, I went into the bread room, and slipped on a waistcoat,filled my pockets with biscuits, and eat as I went about otherthings; I also found some rum in the great cabin, of which Itook a dram.As I found several spare yards, I let them down with ropesby the ship’s sides, and going down to them, tied them together,and made a raft, placing several pieces of plank upon themcrossway, and laid upon it all the pieces of board that came tohand. I next emptied three of the seamen’s chests : thenlowered them down upon the raft, and filled them with bread,some dried goat’s flesh, and three Dutch cheeses. I foundseveral cases of bottles, in which were some cordial waters, andabout five or sixtgallons of arrack; these I stowed by themselves,there being no room for them in the chests. I also let downthe carpenter’s chest, which was worth more to me than a shipload of gold. I next found two good fowling-pieces, and twopistols, with some powder horns, two barrels of powder, and twoold rusty swords, all of which I placed on the raft, and withthis invaluable cargo resolved to put to sea.My raft went very well, and with it I entered a creek, whereI thrust it on a flat piece of ground, over which the tide flowed,and there fastened it by sticking a broken oar into the ground.Thus I stayed till the water ebbed, when I placed my cargosafe on land.The next day I resolved to make a second voyage. My raftbeing too unwieldy, I swam to the ship, and made another, onwhich I placed two or three bags of nails and spikes, somehatchets, a grindstone, two or three iron crows, seven muskets,and another fowling piece, two barrels of powder, a large bag ofsmall shot, and all the men’s clothes I could find, a square fore- .topsail, a hammock and some bedding; all of which I broughtsafe to land.I now went to work to make a little hut with the sails andsome poles, which I cut for that purpose; and into it I broughtevery thing that I knew would spoil cither with the sun or rain :I piled all the empty chests and casks in a circle round the hutto fortify it from any sudden attempt from man or beast; Iblocked up the door with boards; and spreading one of the bedsupon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, andmy gun by me, I went to bed, and slept very quietly all night.Every day at low water I went on board, and brought awayt j12ftometlmlg. On my seventh voyage I brought away a greathogshead of bread, three large runlets of rum, a box of finesugar, and a barrel of fine flour.I had been thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven timeson board the ship, but in one of these excursions I had the mis¬fortune to overset my raft; but it being in shoal water, andthe things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of themwhen the tide was out. Indeed, had the calm weather con¬tinued, I believe I should have brought away the whole ship,piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth time to go on board,I found the wind began to rise; however, at low water I went;rummaging the cabin, I discovered a locker with drawers in it,in one of which I found two or three razors and a pair of largescissors, with ten or a dozen good knives and forks : and inanother about thirty-six pounds in value of gold and silver coin.At the sight of this money I smiled to myself, and said, “ Odrug! what art thou good for? One of these knives is worthall this heap; I have no manner of use for thee : e’en remainwhore thou art, and go to the bottom.” However, upon secondthoughts, I took it away, and wrapping it all in a piece of can¬vas, began to think of making another raft; but while I waspreparing it, the wind began to rise, and blow off shore: I thenfound that it was time to be gone, lest I should not be able toreach the shore; accordingly I lot myself down into the water, andswam to land, which I performed with great difficulty, from theweight of things I had about mo, and the roughness of the water.It blew very hard all night, and in the morning when I lookedout, no more ship was to be seen. I now went in search of aplace where I might fix my dwelling, endeavouring to chooseone where I might have the advantage of a healthy situation,fresh water, and security from being surprised by man or boast.I found a little plain on the side of a rising hill, which wasthere as steep as the side of a house, so that nothing could comedown to me from the top. On the side of this rock was a hol-* low place, like the entrance of a cave, before which I resolvedto fix my tent. This plain was not above 100 yards broad,and twice as long, descending to the sea.Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the hol¬low place, which extended twenty yards; and in this half circlepitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them into the groundlike piles. Then I took the pieces of cable I had cut in theship, and laid them in rows one upon another at the top ; andthis fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could wellenter it. The entrance I made by a short ladder to go overthe top, which when I was in I lifted over after me. Into thisfence, I by degrees carried all roy riches, all my provisions,> N137^rammunition and stores, and made me a large tent to securemyself and them from the weather. When I had done this, Ibegan to work my way into the rock, laying all the earth andstones I dug out within my fence, in the manner of a terrace ;and thus I had a cave just behind my hut.But before the above works were completed, a sudden stormof thunder and lightning filled me with the greatest terror; formy powder suddenly darted into my mind, and my heart sunkwithin me at the thought that at one blast it might all be de¬stroyed ; on which not only my defence, but the providing ofmy food entirely depended. No sooner was the storm over,: than I laid aside every other work to make boxes and bags, in; order to separate my powder, and put them in holes up and; down the rocks, in such a manner, that one parcel could noti fire another.While all this was doing, I walked out at least once everyi day with my gun, to see if I could kill any thing fit for food,; and to acquaint myself with what the island produced. The: first time I went out, I had the pleasure to find that there were*141*14goats in the island, but they were so shy, that it was the most 'difficult thing in the world to come up with them; but observ-iilg that they did not easily see objects above them, I killedthem by climbing the rocks, and shooting at those in the valley.After I had been about ten or twelve days on shore, it cameinto my thoughts, that I should lose my reckoning of time,and should not be able to distinguish the Sundays from theworking days. To prevent this, I set up a large square poston the shore where I first landed, and cut upon it with a knife,“I came on shore here the 30th of September, 1659, K. C.”Upon the sides I cut every day a notch, and every seventhnotch was as long again as the rest, and every first day of themonth as long again as that long one, and thus I kept myweekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning.I had got from the ship some pens, ink, and paper; somomathematical instruments, and three good Bibles, with severalother books, which I carefully secured. I also brought to shorewith me two cats, and a dog swam on shore, which was a trustyservant to me many years; nay, he was so good a companionto me, that I was at a loss for nothing that he could fetch mo;and ho only wanted power of speech to become a most agreeablefriend.When my habitation was finished, I found it far too small tocontain my moveables, I had hardly room to turn myself, so Iset about enlarging my cave, and laboured till I had workedsideways into the rock farther than my outside pale, and hew¬ing a way through, made a back door to my store-house. Ithen made me a table and chair, which were great conveniences;shelved one side of my cave, and knocked up pieces of woodinto the rock, to hang my things on. When my cave was setto rights, it looked like a general magazine of all necessarythings.In the rummaging among my things, I found a little bagwith some husks of corn in it; and wanting it, I shook it outby the side of my fortification. This was just before someheavy rain; and about a month afterwards, I saw green stalksshooting out of the ground; but how great was my astonish¬ment, when some time after I saw about ten or twelve ears ofbarley, and a few stalks of rice : these were worth more thanfifty times their weight in gold; and I carefully preservedthem for seed.When I had been about a year in the island, I was takenextremely ill. This fit of illness proved a violent ague, whichmade me so weak, I could hardly carry my gun. One nightas I was ruminating on my sad condition, expecting the returnof my fit, it occurred to my thoughts, that the Brazilians tookISno physic but tobacco; and I went, directed by Heaven nodoubt, to search for some in the chest; and there I found aBible ! I brought that and the tobacco to my table; some Iburnt in a pan, holding my head over the fume, and some Ichewed. I opened my book, and the first words on which Icast my eyes were, “ Call upon mo in the day of trouble, and 1will deliver thee.” The words struck me; but I could read nomore, for the tobacco made me excessively sleepy. I thereforewent to bed, and falling into a sound sleep, I believe I slepttwo days; and awoke perfectly recovered.I now took a survey of the island ; and at about two milesdistant from my habitation, found some fine savannahs, and alittle further a variety of fruit, melons upon the ground, andi vines covered with clusters of grapes. I carried some grapesand a few limes back with mo; but the grapes were spoiledbefore I got home. I went the next day and gathered a largequantity of grapes and hung them upon the out branches of thetrees, that they might cure and dry in the sun, and they soonbecame fine raisins.The rainy and dry seasons now appeared quite regular to me.I dug a piece of ground as well as I could, with a wooden spadeof my own making, and began to sow my grain, and my cropamounted to about half a peck of each kind.In one of the dry seasons I took another ramble, armed withmy gun and a hatchet, and guarded by my faithful dog. WhenI had passed the valley in which stood my bower, I came with¬in view of the sea; and it being a clear day, I plainly dis¬covered land j* but whether island or continent I could not tell;I guessed that it could not be less than twenty leagues off. Iimagined it was some savage coast, and such indeed it proved.In this journey I caught a parrot, having knocked it downwith a stick, brought it home with me, and taught it to speak.In another of ipy journies, my dog seized a young kid, andI saved it alive, highly pleased with the hopes of having abreed of tame goats; and it soon became one of my domestics,and would never leave me.My thoughts often ran upon the land I had seen ; and I be¬gan to make myself a canoe. I felled a great cedar, but whenthe impossibility of launching this heavy thing came into mymind, I gave myself this foolish answer, “Let me but oncemake it, and I warrant I’ll get it along when it is done.” Butall my devices to get it into the water failed me, and I there¬fore gave it over. I also made an umbrella, which I couldshut up and take abroad with me, which secured me from theheat and the rain.I now built a small boat, intending to go round my littlekingdom; but after being at sea three days and nights, andnearly losing my life I got safely to land ; and on tho fourthday, almost dead with fatigue, I at length arrived at my littlecastle. 1 got over the fence, and laid me down to sleep; butjudge my surprise, when I waked by a voice calling me by thename, “Robin, Robin Crusoe, where aro you? where haveyou been?” I was so dead asleep at first, that I thought Idreamt somebody spoko to me; but as the voice continued torepeat “Robin Crusoe,” I awaked dreadfully frightened; butno sooner were my eyes open, than I saw Poll sitting on ahed^e, and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me, 1I immediately called him, and the poor creature came as heused to do, and sat on my thumb, crying, “Poor Robin iCrusoe,” as if glad to see me.It would have made a Stoic smile to see me and my family 'sit down to dinner. There was my majesty all alone like »IV* only one pennitted to talk to mo. My dog was grown very old,l gat always at my right hand, and my two cats, one on one1 Bide of the table, and the other on the other, expecting nowi and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour.I had at length a great mind to go to the point of the islandto see how the shore lay, and resolved to travel thither by land.And now reader, I will give you a short sketch of the figure Imade. I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat’s skin,a jacket with the skirts coming down to the middle of mvthighs, and a pair of open knee’d breeches of the same, with thegoafs hair hanging to the middle of my legs. Stockings andslices I bad none ; but I had a pair of somethings, I scarce knewwhat to call them, to flap over my legs like spatterdashes, butot a most barbarous shape ; and so indeed were the most of myclothes. My beard was cut short, except what grew on mvVppei lip, which I had trimmed into a pair of large Mahometan18whiskers. But as for my figure, I had so few to observe me, |that it was no manner of consequence. [In this figure I went my new journey, and was out five or tsix days. I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man’s Jnaked foot on the shore, which was plainly to be seen in thesand. .1 listened, I could hear nothing, I went upon a risingground to look farther, but I could see only that one impres¬sion. There was plainly a foot, toes, heel, and every part verydistinct. I hurried home to my fortifications, looking behindme every two or three steps, and'fancying every tree, bush, and ,stump, to be a man. I had no sleep that night, but my terror igradually wore off; however, I strengthened my fortification,and planted a number of stakes on the outside of my wall,which growing, became a thick grove.After having secured my habitation in the strongest mannerpossible, I sought for a place of security for my live goats; andat length found a piece of ground almost inaccessible by nature;and then removed the she-goats and two he-goats into it.After I had thus secured one part of my live stock, I rambledmore to the western point of the island than I had ever donebefore. I was presently convinced that the seeing the print ofa man’s foot was not such a strange thing in the island, as I jhad imagined, for on my approaching the shore, I was perfectlyconfounded; nor is it possible to express the horror I felt at )seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, and feet, and other .bones’of human bodies; and particularly a place, where, as I |supposed, there had been a fire made, and a circle .dug in theearth for the savage wretches to sit down to their inhuman jfeasts. I turned my face from the horrid spectacle, and leftthe place as soon as possible.Some time after, in the midst of a very stormy night, I wasstartled at the firing of a gun : I hastened up to the top of myhill, and heard another. I imagined that these were the ;signals of a ship in distress; and such it proved, as I discoveredthe next day. I cannot explain the emotion I felt at the sightof this wreck. O that there had been but one saved! cried I,that I might have had one companion—one fellow creature tohave spoken to, and have comforted in his affliction!One morning very early, I clambered up my hill, anddiscovered savages landing from five canoes. I soon after sawtwo miserable wx*etches dragged out of the boats; one of whomwas immediately knocked down; but the other starting fromthem, ran with incredible swiftness towards me. I was fright¬ened when I saw him come my way, imagining he would befollowed by the whole body; however, I kept my station, andquite lost my apprehensions when I found bat three followed'■s*19him. I hastily fetched my gun ; and haying a short cut downthe hill, I clapped myself in the way between the pursuers andthe pursued, crying aloud to him that fled, and beckoning thenmy hand for him to stop : then rushing at once upon the fore¬most, knocked him down with the stock of my piece, and thenshot him dead. The poor savage who had fled was so terrifiedat the noise of my gun, that he stood stock still, but seemedrather inclined to fly than to come towards me. However,when I gave him signs of encouragement, he came nearer.kneeling down every ten or twelve steps; on his coming closeJ again, he laid his head upon the ground, and placed my footi upon it.He was a well-made handsome fellow, of about twenty-sixyears of age, of an olive coloured complexion, with long blackhair. He had a small nose, that was not flat; and fine teeth,3 rr-^20as white as ivory. After ho had slept about half-an-hour, haawaked again, and came running to me in the enclosure just by,where I had been milking my goats ; then falling down again,he laid his head flat upon the ground, and set my other footupon it, as before; and after this made all possible signs ofthankfulness, subjection, and submission. I began to speak tohim, and to teach him to speak to me; and first I made himknow that his name should be Friday, which was the daywhereon I saved his life. I taught him to say Master, and letHim know that was to be my name. The next day I gave himclothes, at which he seemed pleased.Having now more courage, and consequently more curiosily,I took my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in hishand, with his bow and arrow at his back, which I found hocould use very dexterously. I also gave him a gun to carry;and taking two for myself, away we marched to the place wherehis enemies had been. When I came there my blood ran coldin my veins; the place was covered with human bones, and theground dyed with blood; great pieces of flesh were left hereand there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched. I saw threeskulls, live hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet;and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that theybrought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of themwere eaten up, and he, pointing to himself, was the fourth;and that they had been conquered, and taken prisoners in war.The next day I made a little tent on the outside of my fortifica¬tion, and at night took in my ladder, that he might not be ableto get at me while I slept. But there was no need of this pre¬caution, for never man had a more faithful servant; he had thesame affection for me as a child has for a father : and 1 daresay he would have sacrificed his life to save mine.I took him out with me one morning to the woods, in orderto take a kid from my herd; but as I was going, I saw’ a shc-goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting byher : when making signs to Friday not to stir, I shot one of thekids. Poor Friday, who had at a distance seen me kill thesavage his enemy, but did not see how it was done, trembled,and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk down :he did not see the kid I had shot, but ripped up his waiscoatto feel if he was not wounded, and thought I was resolved tokill him. But taking him by the hand, I laughed at him;and pointing to the kid I had killed, beckoned him to run andfetch it, which he did.The next day I sent him to beat out some corn, and sift it;and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me,as well as I could do it myself. In short, this was the21pleasantest year I had led upon the island : for as my man beganto talk pretty well, I had some use for my tongue again.I was now entered into the twenty-seventh year of mycaptivity, and intended soon to sail, when one morning I bidFriday go to the sea-shore to see if he could find a turtle; buthe had not long been gone, when he came running back, andcried, “ O Master ' O Master! O sorrow ! O bad ! ” “What’sthe matter, Friday!” said I. ‘‘O yonder, there,” said he,‘‘one, two, three ; canoe ! one, two, three l” “ Well, Friday,”said I, ‘‘do not be frightened.”I then took my perspective glass, and went up the side of thehill, and saw twenty-one savages, three prisoners, and threecanoes. I bid him see what they were doing : he did so, andtold me, that they were all about the fire, eating the flesh ofone of their prisoners; and that a bearded man lay bound uponthe sand, whom he said they would kill next.I had not a moment to lose, for two were stooped down tountie the Christian, in order to murder him. ‘‘Now,” said I,“ Friday, do as you see me do. I laid the muskets down, andtook one, and then we both fired. Three were killed, and fivewounded. The rest jumped up immediately on their feet, butthey knew not where to run.I resolved to pursue them, and ran to the canoe, calling toFriday to follow me; but I was no sooner in the canoe, than Ifound another poor creature lie there alive, boiled hand andfoot. I immediately cut the twisted flags; and seeing that hehad been bound so tight, that he was almost dead, I gave hima dram, and ordered Friday to tell him of his deliverance: butwhen the poor fellow looked in his face, and heard him speak,t would have moved any one to tears, to have seen how heKissed, embraced, hugged him, cried, danced, sung, and thencried again. It was some time before I could make him tell mowhat was the matter; but when he came a little to himself, hesaid he was his own dear father. He then sat down by him,held the old man’s head close to his bosom, and chafed his armsand ancles, which were stiff with binding.The Spaniard having expressed to mo the utmost gratitudefor his deliverance, gave me an account of his shipwreck, andthe situation of his companions; and it was resolved thatFriday’s father and the Spaniard, should go in the boat to fetchthem over.About eight days after they were gone, Friday wakened meone morning, by crying out, “Master, they are come!” Idressed, and hastened to the top of the hill, and plainly dis¬covered an English ship lying at anchor.They then ran the boat ashore on the beach, and eleven men22landed, three of them unarmed; who by their gestures, seemet Ito be prisoners : and one of them I could perceive using th« imost passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despairwhile the two others, though their grief seemed less extravagantappeared pleading for mercy.At this instant I saw a villain lift up his arm to kill one othe prisoners, but he did not strike him. The men having leftthe prisoners, and gone up into the woods, I went up to theirwith my man Friday, and said to them, “What are you,gentlemen ? ’ ’ they startled at the noise; but prepared to fly.I then said in English, “ Gentleman, perhaps you may havea friend near you, whom you little expect. Tell me your case.’?“ I was commander of that ship, (replied one of the prisoners)my men have mutinied against me; and if they do not murderme, they intend to leave me and these two gentlemen ashore inthis desolate place; they are but in that thicket, and I tremble23for fear they have seen yon.” Having concerted matters withthe captain, and armed ourselves, we went to the sailors, andthe captain reserving his own piece, the two men shot one ofthe villains dead, and wounded another. He who was woundedcried out for help, and I coming up, gave orders for sparingtheir lives, on condition of their being bound hand and feetwhile they staid in the island.A little after another boat came. We formed an ambuscade,but one of the principal ringleaders of the mutiny, with two ofthe crew coming towards us, the captain was so eager that helet fly, killed two on the spot, and the third ran for it. Iimmediately advanced with my whole army, upon which WillWatkins, one of the ringleaders, called out, “ For God’s sake,captain, spare my life.” The captain told him he must laydown his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor’s mercy";When he was gone, I talked to the men, told them my story,and how I managed all my household business; left a letter for ;the fifteen Spaniards, and made them promise to treat them in jcommon with themselves. The next day I went on board tho Iship, taking Friday with me : thus 1 left the island, after beingon it twenty-eight years, and arrived safely in England,24upon which they all submitted, and with their assistance, weseized the ship.Having brought the prisoners before me, I asked them whatthey had to say in their defence, telling them I had power toexecute them there. They pleaded the captain’s promise ofmercy. I then told them that I intended to go passenger inthe ship, with all my men ; hut that they could only go asprisoners; observing, however, that they might, if they choseit, stay in the island. This they gladly accepted. The captainreturning to the ship, got every thing ready for my reception.