A COLLECTION OFS O £? G- S* &c.'<>■ COXTAIXING F(CHARLIE IS MY DARLING.X)ME TELL ME WHERE THE MAIDIS FOUND.DOWN IN A VALLEY.DOCTOR MONRO.10SY MAY COMES IN WT FLOWERS.WAKEN, LORDS AND LADIES.HOPE TOLD A FLATTERING TALE.0 JEANIE, THERE’S NAETHING TOFFAR YE.EDLNIJUUGM':HUINTliD 10U TliK liQ0K5jE.LI.EUS,/ • ) K (>} '<":%{ \ K) ’ > /Jphariie is My Darling. .|Chari ie is my darling, my daHing, my darling, LOh ! Charlie is my darling, the young ChevalieliYTwas on a Monday morning right early in tl|;year,When Ciiarlie canje to our town, the younuCheValiek‘r . ^ ^As he came riding up the street, the pipes playlloud and clear;And a’ the folk canve running out, to meet t|ChevTTAJ'i A QJOT M'fQHOh ! Charlie is my darling, my darling, my darlirlOh 1 Charlie is my darling, the young C1ievalie|Wi’ Highland honnets on their heads.And claymore’s bright nod clear; ™rThey eame to fight fur Scotland’s rightAnd the young Chevalier.They’ve left their bonny Highland hills,Their wives and bairnies dear;To draw the sword for Scotland’s Lord,The young Chevalier.Oh ! Charlie is my darling, &c.Come tell me •where the Maid is Fourw.Come, tell me where the maid is found,Whose heart can love without deceit.And I will range the world around,To sigh one momejit at her feet.IaOh ! tell me where’s her. saintjed home.What air receives her blessed siyh ;A pilgrimage of years I’ll roam,To catch one sparkle of her eye.And if her cheek be rosy bright,, While truth within her bosom lies,I’ll gaze upon her morn and night,Till my heart leave me through my eyes.i1 (.Show me on earth a thing so rare.I’ll own all miracles are true ;To inake one maid sincere and fair.Oil ! 'tis the utmost heaven can 4o.Down in a Valley.’ on't you remember a poor peasant’s daughter,i In neat russet gown, and apron so blue,• 'ho won the affections of many that sought her,1 Down in a valley where sweet violets grew.ne blush on her cheek was modesty dawning,i Her lips were untainted the rose’s sweet hue,mclouded by sorrow, she pass’d night and morning,it Down in a valley w here sweet violets grew,ne soft matchless beauties dame nature had given,Z Wert; pure as the crystalline drop of the dew,hich painted sweet innocence mild as the heav’n,Down in a valley where sweet violets grew.it ah ! hapless sorrow, soon frost-nipt her beauty,She droop’d as a blossom when fobb’d of jts hue,>r love forc’d to yield to tilial duty,iiDown in a valley where sweet violets grew.Illaclor Monro.‘ Dear Doclor, be clever, and fling off yotir bcav.C'>me, bleed me. and blister me, d® not be slowI’m sick, I'm exhausted, my schemes they orblasted,And all driven heels-o’er-head, Doctor Mdnr4 Be patient, dear fellow, you foster your fever;Pray, what’s the misfortune that bother* you »o4 O, doctor! I’m ruined ! Pm ruined for ever IMy lass has forsaken me, Doctor Monro.41 meant to have married, and tasted the plrasurThe sweets, the enjoyments, in wedlock that How;But she's ta'erj another, and broken my measurerAnd fairly confounded me, Doctor Monro.’4 I'll bleed and 1 11 blister you, over and over .;I’ll master your malady ere that I go ;But raise up your head from below the bed-cove;And give some attention to Doctor Monro.*]f Christy had wed you, she would have mislyou,And laughed at your love with some handsomyoung beau ;Her conduct will prove it; but how would yo:love it ?’4 I soon would have lamed her, dear DoctcMonro.’ .• Each year brings a pretty young son or a dang!ter;Perhaps you’re the father, but how shall yo:know ?5fou hug ihpm—Ikm* gdlanl is bursting withlaughter’—1 ‘ That thought's like to murder me. DoctorMonro.’ 'The boyi cost you many a penny and shilling;if You breed them with pleasure, with trouble andwo:Jut one turns a rake, and another a villain.”—* My heart could not bear it, dear Doctor Monro.’I The lasses are comely, and dear to your bosom;1 But virtue and beauty has many a foe !\ think what may happen ; just nipt in theirblossom -1 * Ab, merciful lleavrn ! cease, Doctor Monro.a Dear Doctor, I'll thank you to hand me n»ybreeches;'ll! I’m better; 1 11 drink with you ere that you go;i’ll never more sicken for women or riches,lij But love my .relations and Doctor Monro.! plainly perceive, w ere l wedded to Christy,<fl My peace and my pleasures I needs must fore-go.’fe ►till lives a bachelor; drinks when he’s thirsty ;k And sings like a lark, and loves Doctor Monro.Nozv Rosy May conics in wi Flowers.Now rosy May comes in wi’ flow’rs,To dock her gay green spreading how’ra.And now' comes in my happy hours,To wander vrf my Dane.0The crystal waters round ns fa*,The merry birds are lovers a\The scented breezes round us blaw,A-wandering wi’ my DavieMeet me on the warlock knows,Daintie Davie, Daintie Davie ;There I’ll spend the day wi’ you,My ain dear Daintie Davie.When purple morning starts the hare,To steal upon her early fare,•! Then thro’ the dews I will repair.To meet my faithfu’ Davie.When-day, expiring in the west,The curtain draws o’ Nature’s rest,I flee to his arms I lo’e best.And that’s my ain dear Davie.Meet me on, &c.Waken, Lords and Ladies Gay.Waken, lords and ladies gay,On the mountains dawns the day ;AH the jolly chase is here,With hawk, and horse, and hunting spear,Hounds are in their couples yelling.Hawks are whistling horns are knelling ;Merrily,'merrily, mingle they,Waken, lords and ladies gay.Waken, lords and ladies gay.The mist has left the mountain gray ;Springlets in the daw n are streaming.Diamonds in th^ break are gl^ming;7And foresters hare brnsy beenTo trace the hack in thicket green :Now we come to chant »ur lay.Waken, lords and ladies gay.Waken, lords and ladies gay.To the green wood haste away ;We can show you where he lies,Fleet of foot and tall of size :We can show the marks he madeWhen ’gainst the oak his antlers frayed;You shall see him brought to bay,Waken, lords and ladies gay.Louder, louder chant the lay.Waken, lords and ladies gay ;Tell them, youth, with mirth and glee,Kun a course as well as we :Time, stern huntsman ! who can balk.Staunch as hound and fleet as hawk ;Think of this, and rise with day,Gentle lords and ladies gay.Hope told a flattering Tale.Hope told a flattering tale,That joy would soon return.Ah ! nought my sighs avail,For Love is doom’d to mourn.Ah ! where’s the flatt’rer gone PFrom me for ever flown,The happy dream of love is o’er,Life, alas ! can charm no more.f80 Jeanie, them's Sat thing to Fear FcJ jG! my lassie, our joys to compK-te a»nin, ||Meet me a^a'm in tlie gloamih’ mv dearie :I.ow down P the dei! let us meet again,O ! Jeanie, there's naetiiing t<X leur ye :Come when the wee hat (lits silent an 'eerie:Come when the pale lace o’ nature looks weary, jLove he thy sure defence.Beauty an’ innocence—O ! Jeanie, there’s naetliing to fear ye.Sweetly blaws the haw an’ the rowan-tree* ;Wild roses speck our thicket so breerie ;Still, still will our bed in the greenwood be—O ! Jeanie there's naething to fear ye :Note wlr6n the blackbird o’ singing grows weary,“List when the beetle bee’s bugle conies near ye :Tben come with fairy haste.Light foot an’ beating breast—O ! Jeanie, there’s naefhing to fear ye.Fur, far will the bogle an’ brownie be;Beauty and truth they darena come near it.Kind love is the tie of our unity ;A’ maun ]ov4 it. an’ a’ maun revere it.Love msks the song o’ the woodland sae cheerie, .Love gars a'.'Nature look bonnie that’s near ye;Love trmks the rose sae sweet,Cowslip an* violet—O ! Jeauie, ijhere’s naething to fear ye.