GPRINTED FOR THEHISTORYOF THE LIFE & SUFFERINGSOf TtiiiHEV. JOHN WILOHSOHEIIME MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL AT AYR.. .«' \ :*'/ H < ■ rJ ; j /r;;)/li}lMi'Ria a ?IHT i(Mil WO| jK-J al IIK6I,I a;i : .■ j'&o mi io mim mum<■At'SIf■«. *'l'(>08Avl t’*•: - ••' ■? .!•• fT •'• - p*iTHEV^Sj U ■■'zi.li) ■:: [ .i;LIFE OF JOHN WELCH.*ijv*Jcil«» C/ilC* .vtJms J'>Y €tj'li 15r'-* t^^’i •'.’.'i v/. » I .gai^Mw om*> all .TOdJ*l ,i:i oj o«i.rj oJ millMr. John Welch was bom a gentleman, bis fatherbeing laird of Colieston, (an estate rather com¬petent,’tliari large, in-the shire of Nithsdale) aboutth§ year 1570, the dawning of our reformationbeing then but dark. He was a rich example -ofgrace and mercy,- but the night went before theday, being a most hopeless extravagant boy : it wasnot enough to'him, frequently when he was a youngstripling to run away from the school and play thetruant; but after-he had passed his grammar, andwas'coiile to be a youth, he left the school, and-hisfather’s house, and wont and joined himself to thethieves on the English border, who lived by robbingthe two nations, and amongst them he stayed tillhe-spent a suit of clothes. Then he was clothedonly with rags, the prodigal’s misery brought himto the prodigal’s resolution, so he resolved toeturn to his father’s house, but durst not adven¬ture, till he should interpose a reconciler. So irhis return homeward, he took Dumfries in his way,where he had an aunt, one Agnes Forsyth, and withher he diverted some days, earnestly entreating herto reconcile him to his father. While he lurked inher house, Lis father came providentially to thehouse to salute his cousin, Mrs. Forsyth ; and after4ihey had talked a while, she asked him, whether ho"'had ever heard any *iews of his son John ; to herhe replied with great grief, O cruel woman, howcan you name his name to me ? The first news Iexpect to hear of him, is, that he is hanged for athierf. She answered, many a profligate boy hadbecome a virtuous man, and comforted him. Heinsisted upon his sad complaint, but asked whethershe knew Ids lost son was yet alive. She answered,Yes, he was, and she hoped he should prove a betterman than he was a boy, and with that she calledupon him to come to his father. He came weepingand kneeled, beseeching his father, for Christ’ssake, to pardon his misbehaviour, and deeply en¬gaged to be a new man. His father reproached himand threatened him. Yet, at length, by the boy’steara, and Mrs. Forsyth’s importunities, he waspersuaded to a reconciliation. The boy entreatedIds father to send him to the college, and there totry Ids behaviour, and if ever thereafter he shouldbreak, he said he should be content his father shoulddisclaim him for ever: so his father carried himhome, and put him to the college, and there hebecame a diligent student, of great expectation,and shewed himself a sincere convert, and so heproceeded to the ministry.His first post in the ministry was at Selkirk,while he was yet very young, and the country rude ;while he was there, his ministry was rather admit-ed by some, than received by many; for he wasalways attended by the prophet’s shadow, thehatred of the wicked; yea, even the ministers of"she country, were more ready to pick a quarrelwith his person, than to follow his doctrine, as mayappear to this day in their synodical records, wherewe find he had many to censure him, and only some{I to defend him ; yet it waa thougnt his ministry mthat place was not without- fruit, though he stayedbut a short time there. Being a young man un¬married, he lodged himself in the house of oneMitchelhill, and took a young hoy of his to he hisbed-fellow, who to his dying day retained both arespect to Mr. Welch and his ministry, from theimpressions Mr. Welch's behaviour madfl Upon hismind though but a child.Tho special cause of hia leaving Selkirk, vru* aprofane gentleman in the country (ome Scot ofHeadschaw, whose family is now extinct) butbecause Mr. Welch had either reprevod him, ormerely from hatred, Mr. Weloh was most unwor¬thily abused by tho unhappy man, amongst the restI erf the injuries he did him, this was one, Mr. Welchkept always two good horses for his use, ansi thowicked gentleman when ho could do o» more,either with his own hand, or his servants, cut offthe rumps of the two innocent beasts, upon which! followed such effusion of blood, that they both died,which Mr. Welch did much rescut, and such baseusage as this persuaded him to listen to a call tx>the ministry at Kirkcudbright, which was his nextpost. .But when he was about' to leave Selkirk, hecould not find a man in all the town to transporthis furniture, except one Ewart, who was at thattime a poor young man, but master of two horses,,with which he transported Mr. Welch’s goous, andso left him, but as he took his leave, Mr. Welchgave him his blessing, and a piece of gold for *token, exhorting him to fear God, and promised heshould never want, which promise, providence madegood through the whole course of his life, as vmobserved by all his neighbours.0»■•■ v^ w it J^y - fixsii ic ?At Kirkcudbright he stayed not long ; but therehe reaped a harvest of converts, which subsistedlong after his departure, and were a part of Mr.Samuel Rutherfoord’s flock, though not his parish,while he was minister at Anwith : yet when his1call to Ayr came to him, the people of the parishof Kirkcudbright never oftered to detain him, sohis transportation to Ayr was the more easy.Mr. Welch was transported to Ayr in the year1590, and there he continued till he was banished,*there he had a very hard beginning, but a goodending; for when he came first to the town, thecountry was SO' wicked, and the hatred of godlinessso great, thart there could not be found one in allthe lown, flhat would let him a house to dwell in,so he was constrained to accommodate himself inthe bestuhe might, in a part of a gentleman’s house--for a time, the gentleman’s name was John Stewart,he was an eminent Christian, and a great assistantof Mr. Welch.And when he had first taken up his residence inthat town, the place was so divided into factions,and filled with bloody conflicts, a man could hardlywalk the streets with safety; wherefore Mr. Welchmade it his first undertaking to remove the bloodyquarrelings, but he found it a very difficult work ;yet such was his earnestness to pursue his design,that many times he would rush betwixt two parties ofmen fighting, even in the midst of blood and wound:His manner was, after he had ended a skirmishamongst hit neighbours, and reconciled these bitteienemies, to cause them to cover a table upon thestreet, and there brought the enemies together, andbegining with prayer he persuaded them to protestthemselves friends, and then to eat and drinktogether, then last of all, he ended the work with1A aii ^ , ^Tfsrf^rsinging a psalm; after the rude people begauobserve his example, and listen to his heavenlydoctrine, he came quickly to that respect amongstthem that he became not only a necessary counsel¬lor, without whoso counsel they would do nothing, •but an example to imitate, and so he buried thebloody quarrels.He gave himself wholly to ministerial exercises,he preached once every day, he prayed the thirdpart of his time, was unwearied in his studies, andfor a proof of this, it was found among his papers,that he had abridged Suarez’s metaphysics, wlienthey came first to his hand, even when he was wellstricken in years. By all which, it appears, thathe . has not only been a man of great diligence butalso of a strong and robust natural constitution,otherwise he had never endured the fatigue.But if his diligence was great, so it is- doubtedwliether his /owing in painfulness, or his harvestin his success was greatest; for if either his spirit¬ual experiences in seeking the Lord, or his fruitful-netg in converting souls be considered, they will b«>found unparalleled in Scotland: and many yearsafter Mr, Welch’s death,- Mr. David Dickson, atthat time a flourishing minister at Irvine, wasfrequently heard to say, when people talked to himof the success of his ministry, that the grapegleanings in Ayr, in Mr. Welch’s time, were hu'above the vintage of Irvine, in his own. Mr.Welch, in his preaching, was spiritual and searching,his^uttei-ance tender and moving ; he did not muchinsist upon scholastic purposes, he made no shewof his learning. 1 once heard one of his bear¬ers say. That no man could hear him and for¬bear weeping, liis conveyance was so affecting.There is a large volume of his sermons, now in Scot-hkni, wherein he make* ifc appear, his learning w-tnot behind his other virtues: this also appears in another piece, called Dr. Welch’s Armagaddon, prin toI suppose, in France, wherein he gives his meditathupon the enemies of the church, and their destrin'tion ; but the piece itself is rarely to be found.Sometimes before he went to sermon, he wouldsend for his elders, and tell them, he was afraid togo to pulpit because he found himself sore deserted ;and thereafter desire one or more to pray, and thenhe would venture to pulpit. But, it was observed,this humbling exercise used ordinarily to be follow¬ed, with a flame of extraordinary assistance : sonear neighbours are many times contrary disposi¬tions and frames. He would many times retire tothe church of Ayr, which was at some distancefrom the town, and there spend the whole night inprayer : for he used to allow his affections full ex¬pression, and prayed not only with audible, butsometimes, loud voice, nor did he irk, in thatsolitude, all the night over, which hath, it may be,occasioned the contemptible slander of somemalicious enemies, who were so bold as to call himno less than a witch.There was in Ayr, before he came to it, an agedman a minister of the town, called Porterfield, theman was judged no bad man, for his personal in¬clinations, but so easy a disposition, that he usedmany times to go too great a length with hisneighbours in many dangerous practices; andamongst the rest, he used to go to the bow-buttsaud archery, on Sabbath afternoon, to Mr. Welch’*great dissatisfaction. But the way he used to.■oclaim him, was not hitter severity, but tins geutlopolicy; Mr. Welch together with John Stewart,and Hugh Kennedy, his two intimate friends, used9to spend the Sabbath afternoon in religious con¬ference and prayer, and to this exercise they inyitedMr. Porterfield, which he could not refuse, bywhich means he was not only diverted from hisformer sinful practice, but likewise brought to amore watchful, and edifying behaviour in his courseof life.He married Elizabeth Knox, daughter to thefamous Mr. John Knox, minister at Edinburgh,the apostle of Scotland, and she lived with himfrom his youth till his death. By her I have heardhe had three sons: the first was called Dr. Welch,a doctor of medicine, who was killed in the lowcountries, and of him I never heard more. Anotherson he had most lamentably lost at sea, for whenthe ship in which he was embarked was sunk, heswam to a rock in the sea, but starved there forwant of necessary food and refreshment, and whensometime afterward his body was found upon therock, they found him dead in a praying postureupon his bended knees, with his hands stretchedout, and this was all the satisfaction his friends andthe world had upon his lamentable death, so bitter• to his friends. Another he had who was heir tohis father’s grace and blessings, and this was Mr.Josias Welch, minister at Temple-Patrick in thenorth of Ireland, commonly called the Cock of theConscience by the people of that country, becauseof his extraordinary wakening and rousing gift: hewas one of that blest society of ministers, whichwrought that unparalleled work in the north ofIreland, about the year 1636, but was himself aman most sadly exercised with doubts about hisown salvation all his time, and would ordinarily•ay, That ministers was much to be pitied, whowas called to comfort weak saints and had bo10comfort himself. He died in his youth, and leftfoudjis successor, Mr. John Welch minister at Iron-Gray in Galloway, the place of his. grandfather’snativity. What business this made in Scotland, inthe time of the late Episcopal persecution, for the. space of twenty years, is known to' all Scotland.He maintained his dangerous post of preaching,thegospel upon the mountains of Scotland, notwith¬standing of the threatn-mgs of the state, the hatredof the bishops, the price set upon his head, and allthe fierce industry of his cruel enemies. It is wellknown that bloody (haverhouso upon secret infor¬mation from his spies, that Mr. John Welch was toho found at some lurking place at forty mijpsdistance, would make all that long journey in onewinter’s night, that he might catch him, but -whenhe came he always missed his prey.. I never heardof a man that endured more toil, adventured uponmore hazards, escaped so much hazard-, not in theworld, i Ho used to tell his friends who counselledhim to be moro cautious, and not to hazard himselfso much, That he firmly believed dangerous under¬takings would be his security, and when eyer heshould give over that course and retire himself,.hisministry should come to an end ; which accordinglycame to pass, for when after Both well bridge^ heretired to .London, the Lord called him by death,a nd there he was honourably buried, hot fax fromthe: king's palace.But to return to our old-•Mn-Welch ;. as the dutywherein he abounded and excelled most was- prayer,- so. his greatest attainments fell that wdy.' ’ He usedto say. He wondered how a Christian could he inbod all night, and not rise to pray, and many timeshe watched. One night he rose from his wife, and. went into the next room, where he stayed so lang*a had <Usk:*. da.-/ y.dafo? 01 i.-.-dat ?■''*11kt secret prayer, that his wife fearing he mightcatch cold, was constrained to rise and follow him,and as she hearkened, she heard him speak as byinterrupted sentences, Lord wilt thou not grant meScotland, and after a pause, Enough, Lord, enough,and so she returned to her bed, and he followingher, not knowing she had heard him, but when hewas by her, she asked him what he meant by saying,Enough, Lord, enough. He shewed himself dis¬satisfied with her curiosity, but told her, he hadbeen wrestling with the Lord for Scotland, andfound there was a sad time at hand, but that theLord would be gracious to a remnant. This wasabout the time when bishops first orerspread theland, and corrupted the church. This was morewonderful I am to relate, I heard once an honestminister, who was a parishioner of Mr. Welchmany a day, say, ‘ That one night as he watched inhis garden very late, and some friends waiting uponhim in his house and wearying because of his longstay, one of them chanced to open a window towardtlte place where he walked, and saw clearly a strangelight surrounding him, and heard him speak strangew rrds about his spiritual joy,’ I do neither add noralter, I am the more induced to believe this that Ihave heard from as good a hand as any in Scotland,that a very godly man, though not a minister, afterhe had spent a whole night in a country house, inthe inuir, declared confidently, he saw such anextraordinary light as this himself, which was tohim both matter of wonder and astonishment.But though Mr. Welch had upon the account of hisholiness, abilities, and success, acquired among hissubdued people, a very great respect, yet was henever in such admiration, as after the great plaguewhich raged in Scotland in his time.13And one cause was this ; The magistrates of Ayr,forasmuch as this town alone was free, and thecountry about infected, thought fit to guard thvports with sentinels, and watchmen; and one daytwo travelling merchants, each with a pack of clotliupon a horse, came to the town desiring entrant*that they might sell their goods producing a passfrom the magistrates of the town whence they camewinch was at that time sound and free; yot notwithstanding all this the sentinels stopt them tillthe magistrates were called ; and when they came,Lhev would, do nothing without their ininister’sadvice: so Mr. Welch was called, and his opinionasked ; he demurred, and putting off his hat withhis eyes toward heaven for a pretty space, thoughhe uttered no audible words, yet continued in apraying gesture: and after a little space told themagistrates they would do well to discharge thesetravellers their town, affirming with great assevera¬tion, the plague was in their packs, so the magis¬trates commanded them to bo gone, and they wentto Cumnock, a town some twenty miles distant,and there sold their goods, which kindled such aninfection in that place, that the living were hardlyablo to bury their dead. This made the peoplebegin to think Mr. Welch as an oracle. Yet as liewalked with God, and kept close with him, so heforgot not man, for he used frequently to dineabroad with such of his friends, as he thought werepersons with whom he might maintain the eom-munion of the saints ; and onco in the year he usedalways to invite all his familiars in the town to atreat in his lions©, where there was a banquet ofholiness and sobriety.Ami now the scene of bis life, begins for to alter ;bot before bis blessed sufferings, he had this strangewarning.One night he rose from his wife, and went intogarden, as his custom was, but stajed longer thanordinary, which troubled his wife, who, when hereturned, expostulated with him very hard, for hisstaying so long to wrong his health ; he bid her hequiet, for it should be well with them. But lieknew well, lie should never preach more at Ayr ,•and accordingly before the next Sabbath, he wascarried prisoner to Blackness castle. After that,he, with many others were brought before thecouncil of Scotland, at Edinburgh, to answer fortheir rebellion and contempt, in holding a generalassembly, not authorised by the king. And becausethey declined the secret council, as judges com¬petent in causes purely spiritual, such as the natureand constitution of a general assembly is, they werefirst remitted to the prison at Blackness, and otherplaces. And thereafter, six of the most consider¬able of them, were brought under night fromBlackness toLinlithgow before the criminal judges,to answer an accusation of high treason, at theinstance of Sir Thomas Hamilton, king’s advocate,for declining, as he alledged, the king’s lawfulauthority, in refusing to admit the council judges•ompetent in the cause of the nature of church}*4ieatories ; and after their accusation, and answerwas read, by the verdict of a jury of very consider¬able gentlemen, condemned as guilty of hightreason, the punishment continued till the king’spleasure should be known, and thereafter theirpunishment was made banishment, that the cruelsentence might someway seem to soften their severepunishment as the king had contrived it.But before he left Scotland, some remarkablepassages in his behaviour are to be remembered.Andi first when the dispute about clmrch-goveyn-inent began to warm ; as he was walking upon thestreet of Edinburgh, betwixt two honest citizens,he tokl them, they had in their town two greatministers, who'w.ere no great friends to Christ’sBiuse, presently ip controversy, hut it should beseen, the world should never hear of their repent¬ance. The two men were Mr. Patrick Galloway,and Mr. John Hall; and accordingly it came topass, for Mr. Patrick Galloway died easing himselfupon his stool; and Mr. John Hall, being at thattime in Leith, and his servant woman having lefthim alone in his house while she went to themarket, he was found dead all alone at her return.He was sometime prisoner in Edinburgh castlebefore ho went into exile, where one night sitting atsupper with the lord Ochiltry, who was an uncle toMr. Welch’s wifp, as his manner was, he .entertain¬ed the company with godly and edifying discourse,which was well received by all the company saveonly one debauched popish youug gentleman, whosometimes laughed, and sometimes, mpcked andmade faces; whereupon Mr, Welch brake put intoa sad abrupt charge upon all the company to besileht, and observe the work of the Lord upon thatpropbane mocker, which they, should, presentlybehold ; upon which, immediately,- tbo' propkanewretch sunk down and died beneath the table.Jbutnever returned to life again, to the- great astonish-. ment of all the company. r .Another wonderful story they tell of him at thesame, time ; the lord Ocbiltry tho captain, being■ both sons to the good lord Qchiitry, and Mr. Welch’suncle in law, was indeed very civil to Mr. Welch,but being for a long time, through the multitude15/of affairs, kept from visiting Mr. Welch in hisseha-rriher; -as he was one day walking in the court,and espying Mr. Welch at his chamber ■ window•asked- him kindly how lie did, and if imatoy thinghe'tconld serve him. Mr. Welch answered^-him,hie would earnestly entreat his lordship, helvi^ atthat time to go to court, to petition king Janie's indiis name, that he might hive liberty to'preach theigospel f which my lord promised to do. Mr. Welchanswered, my lord, both because • you are my•kinsman, and other reasons, I would earnestlyentreat, and Obtest you not to promise except you-faithfully perform. My lord answered, He wouldfaithfully perform his promisO ; and-so went forLondon. But 'though at his first arrival he- wasreally purposed to present the petition to the king,but when he found the king in such a rage againstthe godly ministers, that he durst not at that time^present it, so he thought fit to delay it, and there¬after fully forgot it. • " L'■•i>- The first time that Mr. Welch saw his face afterhis return from -court, he-asked him what he^ haddone with his petition.- My lord answered he, hadpresented it to the king, but that the king was inso great a rage against theiministers at that'time,he-believed it had beeii forgotten, for1 he had gottenno answer. -Nay said Mr. Welch to him, My lordyou- should not -lye to God, ahd to mb, for I knowyOu-never delivered it, though I warned you totake' heed not to undertake it, except you would8perform it; hut because' jfoil have' dealt se unfaith¬fully, remember God shall take from you bothestate and honours, and give- thertv to your neigh¬bour in your own-time: which'accordingly fcame topass, both his -estate and honours were in his owntime transmitted to James-Stewart son to captain»t>■Mines, who was irideed a cadet, but not the lintheir of the family.While he was detained prisoner in Edinbrnreaetle, his wife used for the most part to stayhi* company, but upon a time fell into a longito see her family in Ayr, to which with soidifficulty he yielded ; but when she was to take tjourney, he strictly charged her not to take tordinary way to her own house, when she cameAyr, nor to pass by the bridge through the town, hto pass the river above the bridge, and so get tway to her own house, and not to come into ttown, for, said he, before you come thither, yshall find the plague broken out in Ayr, whiaccordingly came to pass.The plague was at that time very terrible, a:he being necessarily separate from his people,was to him the more grievous; but when tpeople of Ayr came to him to bemoan themselvihis answer was, that Hugh Kennedy, a gocgentleman in their town, should pray for them, a:<jod should hear him. This counsel they accept*and the gentleman convening a number of thonest citizens, prayed fervently for the town,he was a mighty wrestler with God, and accoiingly after that the plague decreased.Now the time is come he must leave Scotianand never to see it again, so upon the seventhNovember 1606 i» the morning, he with 1neighbours took ship at Leith, and though it wbut two o’clock in the morning, many were waitiion with their afflicted families, to bid them fare weAfter prayer, they sung the xxiii psalm, andset sail for the south of France, and landedthe river of Bourdeaux. Within fourteen weeafter his arrival, such was the Lord’s blessi'iin his diligence, he was able to preach insnch, and accordingly was speedily called toministry, first in one village, then in another ;i of them was Nerac, and thereafter settled init Jean d’ Angely, a considerable walled town,l there he continued the rest of the time he so¬me d in France, which was about sixteen years,len he began to preach, it was observed by somehis hearers, that while he continued in thetrinal part of his sermon, he spoke very correctinch, hut when he came to his application anden his affections kindled, his fervour made himretimes negledt the accuracy of the Frenchistmction : but there were godly young men whononished him of this, which he took in very goodt, so for preventing mistakes of that kind, heiired the young gentlemen, when they perceiveda beginning to decline, to give him a sign, and' sign was, that they were both to stand up uponir feet, and thereafter he was more exact in hissession through his whole sermon ; so desirousb he, not only to deliver good matter, but tolommend it in the neat expression.(There were many times persons of great quality‘his auditory, before whom he was just as boldlever he had been in a Soots village; which*red Mr. Boyd of Trochrig once to ask him,ter he had preached before the university ofinure with such boldness and authority, as if ha. been before the meanest congregation) how heId be so confident among strangers, and personainch quality! to which he answered, That heso filled with the dread of God, he had noprehension from man at all; and this answer,L!i Mr. Boyd, did not remove my admiration, hut.iter increased it' There was In MS house amongst many others,who tabled with'him for good education, a younggentleman of great quality, and suitable expecta,;tions, and this was the heir of the lord Ochiltry,wh'o was captain of the castle of Edinburgh. Thisyoung' nobleman, after ho had gained very muchupon Mr. Welch’s affections, fell sick of a grieyouaisickness, and1 after he had been long, wasted with]it,' closed his eyes, and expired as dying men used,to‘do, so to the apprehension and sense of all spec-|tators, he was no more but a carcase, and was;therefore taken out of his bed, and laid upon apall'at on the'floor, that his body might be the moreconveniently dressed, as dead bodies used to be.This was to- Mr. Welch a very great grief, andtherefore he ^stayed ^trith the young man’s deadbody" full three hours, lamenting over him withgreat tenderness. After twelve hours, the friendsbrotlght' in a coffin, whereunto they desired thecorps1 to fee put, as the custom is: but Mr. Welchdesired, that’ for the satisfaction of, his affections,tliCf skonid forbear the, youth ..for a time, which-they granted, and returned not ..till twenty fourhoffi’S; after his death, were expired then theyreturned, with great importunity the corps mightbo coffined, that it might be. speedily buried, theweather being extremely hot; yet lie persisted in hisrequest, earnestly'bogging tlienr to excuse him forone* more ; so'they left the youtl} upon his pallafifor fulf tiiirtry sirhbtifs : ’but,even after all that,though he was urged’ Hot only with grea^ earnest¬ness. but displeasure, tjiey were Constrained to forbear,for twelve hours yet more ; and 'after forty eighthours were past, Mr. Welch was still where he was,and then his friehfls'percei ved that he believed theyoung man was not really dead, but under someapoplectic fit, and therefore proponed to him forhis satisfaction, that trial should he made upon hisbody by doctors and chirurgeons, if possibly anyspark of life might be found in him, and with thishe was content: so the physicians are set on work,who pinched him with pincers in the fleshy .partsof his body* and twisted a bow string about hishead with great for.ce, but no sign of life appearing-in him, so the physicians pronounced him starkdead, and then there was no more delay to bedesired ; yet Mr. Welch begged of them once more,that they would but step into the next room for anhour or t^o, and leave him with the dead youth, .and this they granted: Then Mr. Welch fell downbefore the pallat, and cried to,the Lord with allhis- might, for the last time and sometimes lookedupon the dead body, continuing in wrestling withthe Lord till a# length the dead youth opened hisbyes,iand.cried out to Mr. Welch whom he distinctlyknew, Q Sir, I am all whole, but my head and legs :and these were the places they had sore hurt, with(their pinching.When Mr. Welch perceived this, he called uponns.friends, and shewed them the dead young man•estored to life again, to their great astonishment.Ajid this young nobleman, though he lost the estate)f Ochiltry, lived to acquire a ; great estate inIreland, and was lord Castlestewart, and a man ofmch excellent parts, that he was courted by the earl)f Stafford to be a counsellor in Ireland, which he•efused to be, and then he engaged, and continuedor all his life, not only in honour and power, butn the profession and practice of godliness, to the ,^rcat comfort of the country, where he lived. This *story the nobleman communicated to his friends iu^,Ireland, and from them I had it.eiWhile Mr. Welch was minister in one of theB6French Tillages, upon an evening a certain popishfriar travelling through the country, because liecould not find lodging in the whole village, addressedhimself to Mr. Welch’s house for one night. Theservants acquainted their master and he was con¬tent to receive this guest. The family had suppedbefore he came, and so the servants convoyed thefriar to his chamber, add after they had made hissupper, they left him to his rest. There was buta timber partition betwixt him and Mr. Welch,and after the friar had slept his first sleep, he wassurprized with the hearing of a silent, but constantwhispering noise, at which he wondered very much,and was not a little troubled with it.The next morning he walked in the fields, wherehe chanced to meet with a country man, whosaluting him because of his habit, asked him wherehe lodged that night ? The friar answered he hadlodged with the hugenot minister. Then thecountry man asked him what entertainment hehad? The friar answered, Very bad; for, said ho,[ always held there were devils haunting theseministers houses, and I am persuaded there wasone with me this night, for I heard a continualwhisper all the night over, which 1 believe was noother thing, than the minister and the devil con¬versing together. The country man told him, he wasmuch mistaken, and that it was nothing else, butthe minister at his night prayer. O, said the friar,does the minister pray any ? Yes, more than anyman in France, answered the country man, and ifyou please to stay another night with him you maybe satisfied. The friar got home to Mr. Welch’shouse, and pretending indisposition, entreatedanother night’s lodging, which was granted him.JitBefore dinner, Mr. Welch came from his chatrtiber, and made hia family exercise, according tc, Hia custom. And first he sung a psalm, then reada portion of scripture, and discoursed upon it,thereafter he prayed with great fervour, as his cus¬tom was, to all which the friar was an astonishedwitness. After the exercise they went to dinner,I whore the friar was very civilly entertained, Mr.Welch forbearing all questions and dispute withhim for the time; when the evening came, Mr.I Welch made his exercise as he had done in thejporning, which occasioned yet more wondering inijthe friar, and after supper to bed they all went;i!put the friar longed much to know what the nightwhisper was, and in that he was soon satisfied, forikfter Mr. Welch’s first sleep, the noise began, andI,hen the friar resolved to be sure what it was, solie crept silently to Mr. Welch’s chamber-door, andIthere he heard not only the sound, but the wordsdistinctly, and communications betwixt man andIpod, and such as he knew not had been in theIworld. Upon the next morning, as soon as Mr.Welch was ready, the friar went to him, and toldliim, that he had been bred in ignorance, and livedn darkness all his time, but uow he was resolved toadventure his soul with Mr. Welch, and thereupondeclared himself Protestant: Mr. Welch welcomedhim and encouraged him, and he continued a cou-■tant protestant to his dying day. This story Iiad from a godly minister, who was bred in Mr.Welch’s house, when in France.a When Lewis XIII. king of France, made waripon the Protestants there, because of their re-igion, the city of St. Jean d’ Angely, was by himind his royal army besieged, and brought intonxtreme danger, Mr Welch was minister in theI22fff'ft ' &J(: ffuv- ' :Xlf r ' ' . •€/'* ;**✓ OI'Ti': > * I •town, and mightilj eiicouraged the citiizens to hold [out, assuring them, God should deliver them. In tthe time of the siege a cannon hall pierced the Itbed where he was lying, upon which he got up, but ;Vwould not leave the room, till he had by solemn jiprayer acknowledged his’deliverance. During the •*.siege, the townsmen made stout defence, until jone of the king’s gunrioys planted a great gun soconveniently upon rising ground, that therewith #he could command the whole wall, upon which the, iftownsmen made'th’Sir greatest defence. Upon this , i;they Were constrained to forsake the whole wall in jgreat terror, and though they had several guns,plaritecf npoil'the wall, no man durst undertake to, ■mahago them;'’ This being told Mr."Welch with sgffet affrightment, he n6twithstanc|ing encourng. il .tlieim still to hold’out, liiid running to tlfe/wall.himself, found the canndnler, who was a Bpiguii-dfah, near the'wall, him he entreated to mount'thewall, promising to assist'him in person, so to thewall they got. The camiouier told Mr. Weltdf, .that either they behoved to dismount the gun uumi .the''Vitemg'^Tound, or else they’Were surely lost;,MH Weleh Vie-ired him, to ^im well, and he shouldservo him, and God would help him ; so the gun¬ner Falls a'scouriiig'his piece, and Mr. Welch funs. .-to the poW’der to: fetch him a charge ; but as soon. jas- he whs. returning, the kiiig’fe gunner fired his -piece, which’carried hdth the powder and,ladle outof Mr. Welch’s bauds, which yet did not discour¬age h'iih, for having left the ladle, he filled his hat |with powder, wherewith the gunner loaded hispiece, and dismounted the king’s gun at the firstshot! so the citizens returned to tlicir post of defence. .This discouraged’the king so, that he sent to thecitizens to offer th^”'' fair conditions, which wore,23That they should enjoy the liberty of their religion,their civil privileges, and their walls should not bedemolished : only the; Icing desired for his honoursthat he might enter the city with.his servants in. afriendly manner. ' This the city thought Tit to••rant, ahd the king with a few more entered the*ity for a short time. " .donotq ol yhisBut within a shirt time thereafter the war was■endwed, and then-Mr. Welch told the inhabitants>f thfe city, tiiat nOw their cup was full, and theyhould no more escape ; which accordingly cameo pass, for the king took the town, and as soon as■ver -ft fell into his hand, he commanded Vitry,!i!he captain of hi?-guard, to enter the town, andIbreserVe His minister from all danger ; and thenjbere horses and -waggons provided for Mr. Welch,So remove him atfd’his family-'for Rochel, wherejjie remained till he obtained liberty to comeo England, and his friends made hard suit,hat he might be permitted to return to Scot-md ; because the physicians declared there waso other way to preserve his life, but by thei-eedom he might have in his native air. Buto this king James would never yield, protest-ig he should never be able to establish hiseloved bishops in Scotland, if Mr. Welch wereermitted to return thither ; so he languished at/ondon a considerable tfiJ^This disease was judged: y some to have a tendency to a sort of leprosy ;{hysicians say he had been poisoned ; a langour he[ad, together with a great weakness in his knees,msed by his continual kneeling at prayer : byit came to pass, that though ho was able to,is knees, and to walk, yet he was wholly.,5'e*iblo in them, and the flesh became hard liken of horn. But when in the time of his weak-24ness, he was desired to remit somewhat of his ex¬cessive painfulness, his answer was, He had his lifeof God, and therefore it should be spent for him.His friends importuned king James very much,that if lie might not return to Scotland, at least hemight have liberty to preach at London, whichking James would never grant, till he heard allSlopes of life were past, and then he allowed himliberty to preach, not fearing his activity.Then as soon as ever he heard he might preach,he greedily embraced this liberty, and having accessto a lecturer’s pulpit, he went and preached bothlong and fervently : which was the last performanceof his life; for after he had ended his sermon, horeturned to his chamber, and within two hoursquietly and without pain, he resigned his spiritinto his Maker's hands, and was buried near Mr.Deering, the famous English divine, after he hadlived little more than fifty-two years.>