THEGOLDEN DREAMERORDREAMER’S ORACLE,SHOWING HOWFUTURE EVENTSMAY BE ASCERTAINED BYMEANS OF DREAMS,WITH A CHAPTER ON THESIGNIFICATION OF MOLES.EDINBURGH:JOHN SANDERSON,14S CANONGATE.^ OF SCOTLAND rgrcamtr’B ©rade.——=aeC?^:-5)5e>=>——What you go to bed, put under your pillow a praytrbook, opened at the marriage service, bound with garters,a sprig 0/myrtle on the. words, '‘with this ring / thetwed,” and your dream will be ominous. —*>9r£H8t>c-* Abuse. To dream that you are abused or insulted isa sure sign that you will have a dispute with someperson.A-bed. To dream that you are in bed, betokens goodhealth, but beware, for some one wishes to injure you.Abroad. If you dream you are in a foreign country,some one who is making money abroad is likely tobequeath a fortune to you.Actress. To dream of an actress, not performing onthe stage, denotes to the lover that careful attentionmust be paid to all undertakings and all will be well.—To the man of business, it is a sure sign of success.Acquaintance. To dream that you fight with themsignifies distraction, especially if the person sodreaming be sick.Adorn. Should you dream of being gaily dressed insplendid apparel, denotes a sure sign of some afflictionto yourself or your relatives.—If your dress be in blackit denotes prosperity and good success attending yourundertakings.Agricultural Implements. This is a good dream tocither man or woman ; it denotes good luck, very for¬tunate, and plenty to live upon.Ague. To dream that you have one, and are verycold, shows an inclination to fermented liquors.A ir To dream you see it clear and serene shows youshall be beloved and esteemed by all people, and that£those who are your enemies, and envy you, shall bereconciled to you ; if with thick and dark clouds youwill meet with dissappointments.Altar. To dream that you are at the alter betokensjoy and gladness ; if at the Hymeneal altar the marriagewill be deferred.Alms. To dream that they are begged of you, andyou deny to give them, shows want and misery to thedreamer, but to dream that you give them freely is asign of joy and long life.Anchor. To dream of an anchor signifies great assur¬ance and certain hope ; if you are in love it warns youto be assiduous and attentive to attain the object ofyour wishes, otherwise your passion will not meet withsuccess : but beware of some friend who pretends morethan ordinary attachment; he will deceive you, andtry vainly to injure you in the most tender part.Anger. To dream that you are in a violent passion,or abusing or fighting either friend or stranger, denotesyou to have many enemies, and that some evil designis formed against you ; if unfortunately, with a wife orhusband, you may expect great disgrace will befallyou ; if with a sweetheart, you will fall sick and expe¬rience a great loss.Angels. To dream that you see angels is a sure signthat some one is near you, and that the remainingpart of your dream shall prove true ; be thereforemindful of it: if you are in love, nothing can be morefavourable, and your undertakings will prosper.Angling. If you are fishing in a clear stream, it is anexcellent dream ; you will be extremely fortunate inall your undertakings ; but should you be fishing inmuddy water, you must beware of those who arc pre¬tending great friendship, as they will surely and sadlydisappoint you.Anthem. To dream of singing an anthem with othersbeside you denotes a long journey you will be engagedin, and will arrive safe home and bring plenty withyou.Apparel. To dream that your apparel is proper, andsuited to the season of the year denotes prosperity andhappiness.Apples. To dream of seeing apples, and they eatsweet and ripe, is a sure sign of prosperity, especially5to virgins; if they should eat sour it signifies muchsorrow and unhappiness.Apron. If you dream of your apron falling off it isa sure sign of good ; some one is thinking about youto do you good.—If your apron be on, and a very richone, be very cautious of your lover ; for if he be notvery attentive to you, he will give you the slip—if heis attentive, watch him.Arms. To dream that your arms are. withered anddecayed shows that the person will decline in health orfortune; if they appear to be more plump, and growstrong, you will meet with unexpected prosperity ; ifyour arms are broken you will lose some dear friend byremoving to a great distance ; if your right arm is cutoff you will lose a near male relation,—if the left, afemale..dss. To dream that you are riding on an ass signi¬fies that you will be guilty of some very foolish actionfor which you will condemn yourself ; if he is feeding,your servants will be diligent and faithful ; if you aredriving him you will get the better of your trouble ; ifhe runs after you, some silly one will occasion a laughagainst you; if he appears loaded, you will advanceyour fortune.Baby. If you dream that you have a baby nursing isa sign of some misfortune. If the baby be sickly, asure sign of death.Back. If your back is broken out in blotches, secretenemies are injuring you ; if you dream that your backis broken, you will meet with some loss; if it growsstronger you will receive an unexpected addition toyour fortune. To dream of the back bone indicateshealth and joy, and that he will take delight in hiswife and children.Bacon. To dream of bacon denotes the death of somefriend or relation, and that enemies will endeavour todo you a mischief—in love, it denotes dissappointmentand discontent.Bagpipes. To dream that you play upon them denotestrouble, contention, and being overthrown at law.Bakehouse. If you are in a bakehouse where there isplenty of bread, you will have a large increase in yourfamily, and an equal proportion in your business. Ifths bakehouse is very hot, beware of your sweetheart ;jf the bakehouse is cold, ami you are making bread,you will have to go a journey, and return with muchsuccess to you.Bank. To dream of being in a hank, and doing busi¬ness, is a good sign of success. If you are paying orreceiving money, be careful in your transactions, anddoubt much of the accuracy of those who arc speakingfavourably of you.Banqnrt. To dream of banqueting shows that youwill he disappointed in some very interesting circum¬stances of your life.Barefooted. To dream you are barefooted is a gooddream. A law-suit will take place in your family andyou will obtain a verdict in your favour with all costs.If you are barefooted and your feet dirty, get all yourarrangements put right as quickly as possible, and thenproceed to your duties and success will attend you.B'i/itize. To dream that some one is baptizing you isa sign of g 'ing a journey. Or if another is baptized,and you are a looker-on, you will hear of some of yourfriends ; and should you he wanting a favour of them,your desires will be realized, and all will be well. Ifthe water is clear, it is an excellent dream.Barn. To dream you see a barn well stored with cornshows that you will marry a rich wife, overthrow youradversaries at law, inherit and get rich by trading orgift; it also signifies banqueting or merry-making.Barley bread. To dream of eating barley-bread be¬tokens health and great comfort to the dreamer.Basin. To dream you are eating or drinking out of abasin is a certain sign that you will soon he in love ;but without care you will not marry the first object ofyour affections.Bat kin (i. To dream you are bathing in clear wateris a splendid dream, and a sure sign of good fortune inall your undertakings. To the lover he will prove true.If the water he rough and muddy, be careful in whatyou do in your business, as some one will endeavour totake you iii ; to the lover, he prudent in your speechand manners, or else disgrace will attend your actions,Battle. If you dream of seeing a battle, beware ofsecret enemies, who will endeavour to hurt you if youear in love, your sweetheart is false,1liny-tree. To dream of a bay-tree denotes success mall your undertakings.Beans. To dream of beans is unfavourable ; it is theforerunner of troubles and quarrels ; if you are in loveexpect a difference to happen between you and yoursweetheart.Beasts. To dream some furious beast pursues you,and you cannot avoid it; betokens your enemies willprevail against you.Beef. To dream of beef denotes the death of a friendor relation ; in love, it denotes disappointment.Bees. If you see bees at work in your dream, it sig¬nifies that your industry will be prosperous ; if theyare flying about, bad reports will be spread of you ; ifthey sting you, you will suffer loss either of your goodsor reputation.Birds. To dream you hear birds singing is a sign ofhappiness ; if you are married something will happenmuch to the advantage of your family ; it is a sign ofgreat success in business ; to see them fly denotes youwill soon go a long journey, which will be pleasant andprosperous ; to dream you catch them, signifies someunexpected good fortune; if they are beautiful, thesuccess will be the greater; to dream of finding anempty nest denotes losses and great uneasiness.Boat. To dream you are in a boat on clear water isvery good, and indicates joy and prosperity.Bridge. If you are going across a bridge in yourdream, and meet with no interruption, you will gothrough life in a prosperous and contented manner.Buried alive. For a person to dream of being buriedalive shows they are in danger of being unhappy andunfortunate during life.Cage. To dream of letting birds out of a cage notesa speedy marriage ; to a person in business it denotessuccess—to a farmer good crops.Cakes. To dream that one makes them signifies joyand profit; to dream of cakes without cheese is good ;but to dream of both, signifies deceit in love.Candle. To dream that you make candles is a sign ofrejoicing. To dream that you see candles not lightedshows you shall be rewar ded for something you havedone,)aCandy.—To dream you are eating candy denotesyou will have a large business in your lifetime andplenty of children. To a married man or woman,signifies a large share of patronage in what they areconnected with.Cards.—To dream you are playing at cards denotesthat you will soon be in love. If you hold a greatmany court cards, and you are single, you will soonbe married and happy.Cat.—If any dream that he hath encountered a cat,or killed one, then he will commit a thief to prisonand prosecute him, for the cat signifies a common thief.If any one dreams that he fought with a cat thatscratched him, denotes some sickness or affliction.Cell.—To dream of your being in a prison cell is a•are sign of going a voyage to sea, and that you willhave a rough passage, but eventually land in safety.Chambermaid.—To dream you are performing theduties of chambermaid is a token of good. If you arein the act of showing a man to bed, your marriage isnot far off, and a good husband you will get. If it bea woman you are showing, it denotes trouble ; bewareof some one not far from you speaking to you as afriend but a traitor behind your back. If children arewith the woman it is still the worse.Chains.—To dream that you are in chains shows thatyou will be unfortunate after marriage ; but to dreamyou have another in chains, success in matrimony.Chapel.—To dream you are in a chapel and that thereis a large congregation, you will become possessed ofgreat riches before you die. If the chapel be thin, becareful what you are doing in your daily labour. Ifyou see the priest in the chapel, it is a bad omen, youhad better dream of old Beelzebub as the man in thelong robes; some mishap will befall you before theend of the day ; and if the priest be not long in thechapel you will soon get through your difficulties.Cheese.—To dream you eat cheese denotes profit.Cherries.—To dream of cherries betokens disappoint¬ments in life, vexations in marriage, falsehood in love,and deceitful pleasure; but if you climb the tree, asure, speedy, and unexpected advancement in life iscertain to you.Children.—To see a child or children born is a signHthat you will be happy in your family. If you see oneor more of them die, you will meet with some misfor¬tune and unhappiness.Clock. To dream that you hear the clock strike showsthat you will be speedily married.Coeds. To dream of clear burning coals denotes pro¬sperity, especially in love ; coals in their natural stateindicates trouble and discontent; extinguished coal*announce the loss of fortune.Corn. To dream you are gathering ripe corn pro¬mises you success in your enterprise; but if it iablighted or mildewed you will be a great loser.Comets. To dream you see a comet is ominous ofwar, plague, famine, and death. To the lover it fore¬bodes an entire frustation of his hopes ; to the farmerfailure of crops ; and to the seaman shipwreck. Aftersuch a dream change your residence.Courting. To dream of courting a beautiful woman,betokens crosses and vexations.Croums. To dream you are distributing crowns showsthat you will establish your family in a respectablemanner. If you dream that you receive a crown fromanother, it betokens a large inheritance ; crown-piecesare signs of misfortune.Cuckoo. To dream you hear the cuckoo, your sweet¬heart will prove a coquette.Cupid. To dream cupid breaks his dart, your lovewill change.—If he breaks his bow you will die anold maid.Currants. To dream of black currants denotes greathappiness in the married state ; if you are pullingthem, it is certain you will have a large family, whowill do well; but if the currants are red, beware of falsefriends, those whom you little expect, for they will doyou harm if they possibly can.Dancing. To dream you are dancing at a ball or en¬tertainment foretells you will shortly receive some joy¬ful news from a long-absent friend ; to the sailor apleasant and successful voyage; increase of childrento married persons ; and those in trade much buainees,and happyin marriage.Darkness. To think yourself in the dark ia a tok«aof affliction and loss in trade. To get oat cf dsrk»««into sudden light is a sign of rising to eminence, orescaping out of prison.Deaf.—To dream of being deaf or in the company ofsome one deaf, denotes that you will soon be marriedand have a steady man.—To the married, it impliespossessions and success in business, with plenty towork with.Deer.—To dream you see deer in a park, denoteswar and famine, to the lover it foretells some veryunpleasant dispute with your sweetheart.Death.—To dream you are dead denotes a speedymarriage, and success in all your undertakings ; to themarried it promises young children who will be dutifuland give great comfort ; to dream you see anotherperson dead, denotes ill usage from your friends ; ifyou are in love, your sweetheart will prove false; ifyou are in trade, sharpers will take you in; if a farmer,you will lose money by horses, and be waylaid as youreturn from market.DemtHsh.—To dream you are destroying anythingin the house, if a joiner or carpenter, you will havetrouble in your family ; and be careful of those whoare working beside you. If a servant be demolishinganything, a fellow-servant near her is scandalising herand she must guard against having any connectionwith young men for the present.Dice.—To dream you are playing at dice or back¬gammon, denotes much good to the dreamer, in eitherlove, marriage, or trade.Ditches.-—To dream of deep ditches, steep mountains,rocks, and other eminences, surely fortells danger andmisfortune ; that your children will be undutiful andbring you into trouble, if you are in love it fortellsunhappiness if you marry.Doctor.—To dream the doctor is in the house andattending to some one sick, you will hear of some oneunexpectedly, and that they are doing well; if theperson be very ill, you must beware of those whomyou receive the letter from ; if the person be recover¬ing from sickness, the letter will prove advantageousto you, and you will receive more news from themafterward.iJor/s.—When we dream of dogs that belong to us, itsignifies courage in our pursuits ; but if we dream ofn; tho?o belonging to otlicr people, it means vindictivei enemies.To dream you are in debt and pursued bybailiffs indicates that you will fall into some unex-ipeeled difficulty or danger.Drril. If you see the devil in your dream withoutfear you will get the better of your adversary ; it youare frightened you will incur some danger.Drowning. To dream you are drowning, or that yousee another drowned or drowning, portends good to thedreamer ; to the lover it denotes that your sweetheart! is good-tempered, and inclined to marry you.Eagle. To dream of seeing an eagle soaring high inthe heavens is a good omen to those who have greatundertakings on hand ; but to dream that an eaglealights upon us signifies death.harthf/valiK. To dream of an earthquake, warns youthat your aff bs are about to take a very great change ;to the lovei it foretells that your sv e thcart is aboutto take a journey, and that it is a very great ebailee ifyou see ea h other again.Ealing. To dream x on arc eating denotes success inyour present enterprise. A loathing of victuals is asign of disunion in your family.Eel. To dream you see an eel in the water, if pure,is a good sign of plenty, and beT kens good ; if muddywater, bad.Emhracit g. To dream you embrace without power tospeak, denotes the pai ty to fall in love, but shall notobtain the person desired.Enjoyments. To dream you are enjoying yourself withyour friends, betokens you to be very careful in w hatyou are doing. To the young woman who is about tobe married, shows that she will have to be very carefulwhat company she keeps, for many pretend friendshipthat are enemies behind her back. To the man in busi¬ness, he must put a guard on what he is doing : thereare some about him doing him a private injury, but bycareful attention he will overcome them and prosper.Evil Spirils. If you see e\i] spirits in your dieam itis a sign of sickness. If you seem to exercise themand they vanish, you will get over your difficulties.Eyes. If you dream you lose your eyes some friend12of yours will die ; if you dream of getting new eyes, O'more than the proper number, this shows an increas*of your family.Eye-laxh. To dream your eyelash is red and sore, i;sickness to yourself or to some of your friends, and ithe eye be all right and well, the person will soon recover. If you dream your lover’s eyes are sore sickness will attend you.Face. To dream that your face is swelled indicateswealth and honour ; but if it grows pale and thin yoiwill be severely disappointed. A black face is a signof death.Fall. To dream you fall from any high place or froma tree, denotes loss of place and goods ; if you are inlove, it surely indicates you will never marry the objectof your affections.Fields. To dream of crossing newly-ploughed fieldspromises some unexpected misfortune to a person whohas no children ; if the fields are covered with corn itdenotes having children.Fighting. To dream you are fighting, denotes muchopposition to your wishes ; with loss of character andproperty.Finger. If the finger is cut and the blood runs youwill get money where least expected ; if there is noblood you will have a quarrel or law-suit for moneypreviously paid.Fire. To dream of this subtle element denotes healthand happiness to the lover, marriage with a fond andsincere partner, and many children. To dream of|burning lights descending from heaven is a very badsign ; it portends some dreadful accident, such as beinghanged, losing the head, having the brains dashed out, 1breaking the legs, etc. To the lover it denotes the lossof the affection of his sweetheart; to the tradesmanbad success in business. To dream you are burnt showsgreat danger from enemies ; to the sailor storms andshipwreck. To dream that the bed is on fire betokensloss, sickness, and'death. Those who dream of fire aregenerally choleric. To dream you kindle a fire with¬out trouble shows that your children will be fortunate;but being presently extinguished shows dishonour,especially to women - To dream of a ship on fireLU13!;c:ijiiI'Vdenotes great losses in business. If in the midst of afire ■which pains, it betokens envy and displeasure.Fishing. To dream you are fishing, is a sign of sorrowand trouble ; if you catch any fish, you will be success¬ful in love and business; if they slip out of yourhand after you have caught them, it is a sign that somepretended friend will deceive you.Flowers. To dream you are gathering flowers, is avery favourable omen ; and is a sign you willthrive in everything you undertake ; that you will besuccessful in love, marry happily, and have beautifulchildren.Fortune. To dream you make a sudden fortune, is abad omen. To the tradesmen it forebodes losses,quarrelling with creditors, and loss of liberty.Fruit. Almonds indicate difficulties, loss of liberty,and deceit in love.Funeral. To dream you are busily employed in bury¬ing a person denotes a very speedy marriage, and thatere long you will hear of the death or imprisonment ofsome near relation or friend.Garden. If walking in a beautiful garden expect anadvance of fortune. If gathering the produce of it youwill be happy in marriage and have many children.Geese. To dream of geese is a sign that an absentfriend will soon return : if they cackle an increase ofbusiness will followGifts. To dream of gifts is a sign that some good isabout to happen to you ; it denotes a speedy marriage.Glass. If one dreams he has a glassful of water givenhim he will speedily be married, and his wife shall soonbe with child. But if the glass is cracked, he mustlook sharp after his wife’s chastity.Gold. If you dream of gold it is a very good omen ;it denotes success to your present undertaking, afterencountering numerous difficulties.Gooseberries (if growing on the bush) denote thatyou will have a numerous family, and great success inyour present undertakings ; but if they are baked,great trouble is near at hand, so prepare for a sick bed.Grave. To dream of being put into a grave andburied, notifies you shall die in poverty.Guns. To dream of seeing or hearing guns foreshows14jmuch adversity ; if you are firing them you will enternto a quarrel or law suit; if they are fired at you; youwill be exposed to great dangers.Hail. Dreaming of hail denotes grief and much sor¬row.Hair. To dream that you are brushing or combingyour hair portends success in love, trade, or someother pursuit; it also signifies riches. To dream thatyour hair has grown so long that it hangs loose onyour shoulders denotes that one superior to yourselfadores you ; but if the hair is red, it denotes that youhave enemies.Hands. To dream of shaking hands signifies to bothsexes courtship and love.Hanging. Dreaming that you see people hanged, orthat you are to be executed yourself, is a sure signthat you will by marriage rise above your present posi¬tion, or a favour will be asked by one in needy circum¬stances from you.Hatred. To dream of being hated by friends or ene¬mies is an ill omen.Horses. To dream of horses is very lucky ; if youdream that you see white horses, they denote speedynews ; if they are black, you may expect to hear of thedeath of an acquaintance.Hills. To dream of going over hills, and wadingthrough many difficulties, and meeting with assistanceon the way, shows you will overcome many troubles.Hunting. To dream you are hunting a hare is a signthat you will be disappointed in the object of yourpursuit, or at least kept long out of it.Ice. To dream of skating or sliding upon ice showsyou will be engaged in some imaginary pursuit thatwill elude you ; if the ice breaks sickness will ensue.Infants. To dream of infants shows trouble and illhealth, except you see them playing ; you may thenexpect to receive great satisfaction from a distant part.Iron. To dream you are hurt with iron shows youwill receive some injury.Key. To dream of losing your key betokens dis¬pleasure : to find one will be addition to your family ;15i give one in marriage ; to receive one the birth of atild.Knife.. To dream of giving a knife indicates muchintention. To give one to your intended shows thess of her—she will cut your acquaintance.King. To dream of talking with the king or queenI unifies attaining much honour.Kissing. To dream that you kiss a pretty maid indi¬ces good ; if she consents without any resistance shelill be true to her lover.Ladder. To dream of climbing a ladder signifiesuch good, and better circumstances. It also denoteshappy union and riches.Lamb. To dream you feed or bring a young lamb tote slaughter signifies torment; to dream you see a>ung lamb or kid signifies extraordinary joy andimfort.Laurel. To dream of seeing a laurel tree shows suc-ss and pleasure. For a wife to smell a laurel-treelows she will bear children. If a maid she will beddenly married.Leaping. To dream you are leaping over anythingotes you will fall into difficulties ; it also snowsises in love.Letter. To receive a letter in your dream betokens a,cy or present. If you send a letter you will shortlyieve a person in distress.Light. To see a light is good ; to strike a light, gain.Lilies. A sign of a good marriage.Linen. Some impediment on a journey ; otherwise,ck.Lion. To dream you see a lion denotes the greatestperity and honour.Lice. To dream of lice is a sure sign of sicknesst if seen numerously, riches. ;Looking-glass. Denotes nothing good, generally death.Mad. To dream you are mad, or in company with aladman is very good ; it promises long life, riches,appy marriage and good children.Marriage. To dream you are married signifies theJ eath of yourself or some near relation ; to dream youssist at a wedding denotes pleasing news and greatsuccess ; to dream of lying with yom wife or hoeba.threatens sudden misfortune and great danger.Marry. To dream you marry denotes damage, ssicness or melancholy, and sometimes death.Meat. To dream of raw meat denotes trouble ofvery severe description ; if it is boiled it betokeplenty of work to the tradesman, and plenty to tfamily of the labourer ; to the lover a happy union.Mice. To dream of mice denotes success, love,happy marriage.Milk. To dream of milk promises joyful news,see milk flowing from a woman’s breast foretells hipiness in children and in business.Mines. To dig mines is a sign of hard work and lifeprofit; to see mines fall in signifies misfortune.Miner. To see a miner denotes some unexpectvisit; to see miners work betokens adversity.Misery. To dream of being miserable, or to emisery in others denotes disgrace and affliction.Mixing. To dream of mixing liquors denotes distraMoney. To dream you are paying money denotsuccess in your affairs; to see money, great joy;receive as a present, good marriage ; to collect, hononto give, anger; to dream of having a great deal denotlosses and sorrow ; to find, unlucky ; if you receiveyou will thrive in your undertakings.Moon. To dream of seeing the moon darkened dnotes sickness and death. To dream of seeing timoon in the form of a full white face indicates to tvirgin speedy nuptials—to the wife that she will ha.a handsome daughter. If the husband dreams it tfchild will be a son. To handsome women it is a go*sign to see a full moon, but not so to ugly ones. Italso ominous to those who are hiding themselves frethe hands of justice.Monk. Indicates crosses and vexation.Monkeys. Signifies sickness, but also great successlove ; to see them dance is a sign of a favourable tinto buy buildings.Mother. Dreaming you see a mother is very fotunate ; to see her dead is a sure sign of illness.Mountains. To see mountains is asign of great honoi iesteem ; to ascend, cares ; to descend, that somethiijjunpleasant is about to happen to you.17—ftisic. To hear music, sorrow.furder. Is a sign of long life; to imagine you see a•derer, good news.•fat’d. Dreaming of saluting a young girl is vexation ;uarrel, with one, a happy marriage.'yrtlt. To dream of the myrtle signifies a wantonnan—beware then of any lewd woman.died. To dream you are naked is a sign of losingend, or meeting with disappointment. To dreaming another person naked indicates a great addi-to wealth.'ails. To dream your nails are growing ver}T longn'ery good, and denotes riches, and great use to'akedness. To dream of nakedness denotes scandal;u see a naked female it is lucky, it denotes thatur awaits you at no distant period.ight. To dream you are walking at night foretells,t vexation.tfuts. To dream of gathering nuts denotes that youlose time in pursuit of a trifling matter when youht employ it much better.rosegays. To dream of gathering and making nose-s is unlucky, shovving that your best hopes shallher as flowers do in a nosegay.rose. Dreaming one has a fair and great nose is<1 all, for it implies subtility of sense, providence.flairs, and acquaintance with great persons ; but toam one has no nose means the contrary ; and to ai, death. If any dream his nose is larger thaninary he will become rich and powerful, providentsubtle, and be well received among grandees.:aming one has two noses implies discord and quar-If one dreams that his nose is grown so big thatdeformed and hideous to the sight he will live insperity and abundance, but never gain the love ofpeople. If any one dream his nose is stopped, sot he has lost his scent, if he be opulent he is in someninent danger from him that hath the greatesthority over his person.)ak. To dream you see a stately oak is a sign ofg life, riches, and great felicity.DreiimiEg of seeing oid men is a sign that yoiiwill be %’ery fortunate.Oil Creaming you are anointed with oil is veifortunate for women ; but for men it is ill, and implishame.Onions. To dream of onions denotes that a mixtuof good and bad will attend you. Your eweethearwill be faithful, but of a cross temper.Oranges. To dream of eating oranges implies woundajand great grief.Oxen. If you dream that you see white oxen it showsvirtuous inclination ; to see fat or lean oxen signifiedpresent gain and good fortune.Oysters. To dream of eating oysters foretells pros¬perity, and that you will be married to a lady who wi"fove you.Paper. To dream of paper, is a good omen, but if it;appear crumpled, it wrill give you much pain.Packages. Creaming of packages of any kind, fore¬bodes uneasiness on account of children.Pain. Creaming you suffer pain, indicates gladness.;Path. To dream you are walking in an easy path,,shows that you will be successful in love ; or if you are'married, you will obtain what you now w’ish for.Paradise.. To see paradise, is a sign of some joyful!news.Parents. To dream of seeing your parents, denotes iprosperity and money.Passage. Creaming of a narrow passage, is riches. |Paying. Creaming of paying a bill of fare is vexation.J'eaches. Betokens friends.Pears. If ripe, riches ; unripe, adversity ; to eat themgood fortune.Peas. Creaming of peas well boiled, denotes good !success. (Pit. To dream you fall into a pit and cannot get outljeasily, denotes some serious calamity : that your sweet¬heart is false, and will prefer another. To the sailor’a shipwreck ; to the farmer, o bad harvest.Play. To dream you are at play, betokens great;happiness in the married state, and increase of businessiPond. To dream you see a pond with clear water in.it, betokens great success in your undertakings. To a19maid it shows the constancy and affection of her swain,and that they will have great prosperity after marriage.Peacock. To dream of seeing a peacock signifies youwill be united to a handsome wife, and become wealthyand attain great honour.Purse. To dream of finding a purse is a very' favour¬able omen ; in love, it is a sure token of a speedy mar¬riage ; to dream you lose your purse shows the loss ofa friend.Quarrel. If you dream you are quarrelling, it showsgreat happiness and contentment.Queen. To dream you see the king and queen signi¬fies honour, joy, and much profit.Pain. If you behold rain in your dream, it promisessuccess in a love affair ; and in all >ther respects itbetokens trouble and vexation.Painbow. To dream you see a rainbow it foretellssudden and great news.Pats. To dream you are attacked by rats and beatthem shows that some person will try to injure you ; butif the rats conquer you, prepare for great misfortune.Ravens or Crows. To dream you see a crow or ravenbetokens great mischief ; it shows falsehood in love.Ribbon. To dream you wear ribbons shows anentanglement in love to the single ; and extravagantchildren to the married.Riding. To dream you are riding, if it be with awoman, is very unfortunate ; if you are in trade, busi¬ness will decay ; but if it be with men, then expect thereverse will happen, and you will obtain a sum ofmoney' by some speculation.Rings. To dream you have a ring on your finger de¬notes marriage to the person you love ; but if the ringdrop off it betokens death to a near friend.River. Drearning you see river water clear indicatesgood ; but to dream of swimming in the sea when it ismuddy signifies great peril and danger.Rocks. A good dream for those going into business,as it shows great stability there.Roses. To dream of roses in the season betokenshappiness ; in love, that your sw'eethcart is faithful,and that you will marry her. If a married lady dreams•10of them she shall shortly be with child of a son whowill be a great man.Rinsing. To dream you rinsed washed linen is a suresign of changing places.Running. To dream you are running from the attackof any animal is a sign that you will encounter greatdangers, and that your lover will prove false.Sailing. To dream you are sailing in a ship, and thewater smooth, show's you will succeed in all your under¬takings ; if you sail in a small boat, and gain the de¬sired haven, you will gain great riches.Sea. To dream you are walking on the sea is good tohim -who would take a wife, for he shall enjoy her.Shipwreck. To dream you are shipwrecked, the shipbeing overwhelmed and broken, is very bad, and showsthat a supposed hatred of friends is groundless ; livein peace with all mankind.Sheep. To dream you see a flock of sheep feeding isa very favourable omen ; to a lover it indicates yoursweetheart to be faithful, of an amiable temper, and in¬clining to marry. To dream you are among sheep meansrepose from trouble ; to dream you meet a flock is lucky.Shoes. To dream you have a pair of shoes denotessuccess in life ; in love matters they signify marriage,which will turn out an equal advantage to both parties.Silk. To dream you are clothed in silk signifies honour.Silver. To dream of silver shows that you have gotfalse friends, who will attempt your ruin ; in love, itdenotes that your sweetheart is false, and that he isengaged to another.Singing. To dream that you are singing, betokenssome melancholy news; if you are unwell, it shows aspeedy recovery ; if in prison, you will soon be set free.Snow. To dream you see the ground covered withsnow is good, to a young man it shows he will marry avirgin, and have a large family.Soldiers. To dream of soldiers, show’s trouble, per¬secutions, and law suits ; if they pursue you, it show’sthat you will be disliked by your rich neighbours.Storms. To dream of storms and a troubled sky de¬notes that the person will get angry through the day.Sun. To dream that you see the sun shining, denotesaeonmnlation of wealth, and filling high situations.5.1Tavern.—To dream you arc in a tavern feasting withij ends, signifies joy and comfort.Teeth.—To dream of losing your teeth, shows theis of some friend by death, and that great trouble11 accompany you.Telegraph.—To dream of the telegraph, denotesings from abroad in a short space of time, and still3 more speedily if you think the telegraph is at work.| Tempest.—-To dream that you are overtaken by a>rm denotes that you will, after numberless hard-ps, arrive at happiness, and that you will becomeh, and marry a good-natured lady.Thunder and Lightning.—To dream of thunder andIhtning denotes gain in your business ; but if it hurtsi u it is a sign of some calamity.yToad*.—To dream you destroy a toad denotes thatru will discover a thief in whom you have placed' 'at confidence.'ree.—To dream you see a withered tree sproutingdenotes children in old age. To dream of cuttingn trees forebodes heavy losses in business; tob them denotes advancement in divinity.’rumpet.—To dream you hear the sound of anipet denotes trouble and misfortune ; to the loveronstancy in the object of his affections.Faffs.—To dream you are walking on weak androw walls shows that you will undertake somegerous enterprise. If you come down without hurthe wall falling, success will follow. If the wall fallsx, you will be disappointed; if you are going betweenIs where the passage is very narrow and difficult,will be engaged in some disagreeable affair ; but, ifcome off from between them and get into an agree-e place you will afterwards enjoy comfort and riches.'"allcing.—To dream of walking in a dirty placetells sickness and vexation ; to the lover it denotesaithfulness.'Vater.—To dream of drinking water shows trouble' adversity ; to the lover it denotes that the preten-is of your sweetheart are false, he loves anotherl will never wed you."edding.—To dream of wedding is very unfavourableitjlovers 3 it denotes sickness or death of some friend.22Wood. To dream you are chopping off wood show!domestic happiness and riches. To dream of bearingwood on the back indicates affluence resulting froirindustry, bat a wife and children of bad temper.WooL To dream of dealing in wool denotes richafrom trade. To the lover it is good ; his sweetheart iiof an amiable disposition, constant, and affectionate, iWound. To dream you are wounded denotes gridand vexation ; if in the stomach or heart shows love.JWrhimj. When dreaming of writing a letter to youisweetheart, if you put it into the post you will have ?pleasing return ; but to trust it into other hands show:that your secrets will be exposed.Yellow. To dream of this colour denotes to marrierwomen very great trouble from a female friend, andthe loss of her husband’s affections. To the lover ilsignifies marriage with a virgin.Young. To dream you are young foretells peace,'delight, und fruition of desire.Yew Tree. An indication of the funeral of a very agedperson by whose death the dreamer will derive benefitor receive protection from the relatives of the deceasedYoke. To dream of having to bear the yoke denotesdanger ; if it be a woman she will be ready to obey heihusband, and careful to govern her family.Zone. To dream of zones foretells much trouble andvexation. To the tradesmen imprisonment and lossogoods—to the lover unfaithfulness in his sweethearand disappointment in his undertakings.TO THE READER.The foregoing pages are published principally to show the superstitions which engrossed the mind of the population of Scotlancduring a past age. and which are happily disappearing before tblprogress of an enlightened civilization. It is hoped, thereforethat the reader will not attach the slightest importance to thisolutions of the dreams as already rendered, as dreams are genetally the result of » disordered stomach, or au excited imaginationMOLESA mole on the neck of man or woman, doth promisehe or she shall become rich.A mole on the lower part of the neck promises theywill be married.A mole on the lower part of the right side of the nosesignifies long and tedious sickness, a weak constitutionand infirm.A mole on the left side of the breast threatens po¬verty, ill-fortune, and the displeasure of superiors.A mole on the throat, on the left of the gullet,threatens a danger of life by water.A man having a mole on the left side, towards theupper part of the corner of the eye, will experiencemuch sickness, if honey coloured or red these sorrowsare somewhat moderated ; but if black a short lifethrough a fall or by drowning ; if it rises above the skinas a wart it promises good end.A mole near the side of the chin shows an amiabledisposition, industrious, ingenious, and fond of travel¬ling.A mole on the left side of the mouth denotes vanityand pride, and an unlawful offspring to provide for.A mole on the middle of the forehead, black, shows aperson guilty of many criminal things through luxury.A mole on the right breast denotes riches and pros¬perity.A mole on the upper side of the right temple shows aman shall have a hearty and long life, and good fortune.A mole on the middle of the breast denotes a personof a cruel and sullen disposition.A person having a mole on the top of the bridge ofthe nose, between the eyes, discovers them to be24enemies of their own peace, and will be afflicted withgreat hostility.A mole on the left cheek causeth a man molestations.A mole on the right side or cu?w )r of the mouthshows increase of wealth and fortune by their own in¬dustry.A mole on the middle of the forehead shows a manto suffer much ill-fortune through mischievous women.A mole on the lower part of the neck inclines aperson to be addicted to evil more than good.A person having a mole on the right side of the chindenotes a good understanding and great ingenuity.A mole on the middle of the chin denotes greatwealth.A mole on the right side and upper part of the breastshows a person will gain a fortune by a lottery.