LAIRD of ARDENOAIGEAND THE« H O S TFENHAGLEN.C' fit IK F F :MY T. MfcM©YAYl>,MDCCCXXXVIII.. t /0\sU+.4V4KMTHELAIRD of ARDENOAICEAND THEGHOST OF FENHAGLEN.Full many a gem of purest ray serene,The dark unfathom d caves of ocean bear ;Full many a flowr is born to blush unseen,And waste its sweetness on the desart air.Grays Elegy.(Tol 1 n Campbell was born in Anlenca^s about themiddle of the fifteenth century, be was son and heir toDuncan Campbell, laird of Ardenoaige. As to his at¬tainments in classical knowledge, we have no particular•account ; but it is probable it was but limited, asscience had made but small progress, especially in theremote parts of the country, in that dark age. However,we are told he was without a rival in all atliletic exer¬cises. It is said of him, that, in fencing, he could springat one bound the length of eighteen feet on his antago¬nist, and could use the broad-sword, in either hand,with equal dexterity. To be expert in sword exerciseswas the grand point at which Scotia’s sons aimed inthese days ; consequently there was nothing wanting topromote his proficiency in that. But he did not confinehimself to this alone, for he was an expert huntsman,which he made his chief employment, or rather amuse-4brought off the prize. In short, he held claim to thathonour and bravery that always characterized his name.Though his station in life was above the most that camein his way, yet he put himself on a level with everyperson that came in his company. In short, he wasfamiliar with all his father’s tenants, and joined them inevery domestic amusement which was common withrthem. Where Colin was, there was sure to be a numberof the most expert of his companions employed in someharmless sport organic. In the long and dreary winternights, he commonly resorted with his companions tothe house of one Peter Fisher in Craggan, whom theycommonly called, J^ar nan sgcule. He was an anti¬quated old man, and much noted for his great memoryin relating old stories, which happened centuries back,handed down to him by his forefathers. He told of themany battles fought in the days of Wallace and Bruce,and of the bloody contests that fell out among the Clans,many of which were fought in his own day, which in-• spired the mind of the young hero, who listenedwith attention. He also would expound to them thecause and reason of the names of hills and dales, streamsand fountains, likewise the death or event that happenedwhere a heaped earn was placed, and the duty of everyone that passed, or went to see them, was to place anadditional stone on them, which custom was long up¬held in the country. Many a wonderful story of fairies,and dreadful stories of Ghosts Peter would tell them.In a word, the whole of Ardenoaigc history dwelt in him.Ho would have himself placed on a seat made of turfin the peat muck, with his hearers in a circle round thefire. He kept on a good fire, in which the laird alwaysrendered him assistance by allowing him to make plentyof peats. And as Colin was the only child his parentswas blest with ; therefore they^withheld nothing fromhim that might augment his happiness and welfare inhis native rural vale.t •“ But pleasures are like poppis spread,You seize the flow’r, its bloom is shed,Or like the snow falls in the river,A moment white—then melts for ever ;Or like the boralis raceThat flit ere you can point their place.Or like the rainbow’s lovely formEvanishing amid the storm.”—-Burns.While Colin was swimming amidst these domesticenjoyments, unconscious of adversity, death deprivedhim of an indulgent and loving mother ; which had agreat effect on his wonted agreeableness, and his fathershortly after married a woman of a proud and haughtydisposition, which still more rendered his state disagree-able both to himself and others. She soon had a largofamily to her husband, (the laird) which caused her tohave a natural disregard for Colin, which he could notaltogether conceal. This caused his father to do moreto promote his welfare, and the more so on account ofhis mother, whom he had loved with fondness. Thisonly tended to increase his wife’s hatred to Colin. Sheforesaw also that he would become sole heir of the estateat the demise of his father, as he was his legitimate sonand heir, and she predicted that then, both she and herfamily would be abandoned, and abased by him, and putto open shame, and perhaps to death. Consequentlyshe formed the barbarous design in her own breast, thatshe would be enabled at one time or other to effect someplan to take away his life. But how to put her atroci¬ous design into execution, became a matter difficult anddangerous both to herself and family, as she knew hisfather and every other person that knew him, was mostaffectionately attached to him ; yet she still made him theobject of her hatred and cruel design, and remained inthe expectation that she would be the means of pulingdeath in his way some way or other. About this timea Ghost appeared in Fe.nhaglen la h nely glen runningbetween Ardenoaige, and the head of Gh nlednick (whichspread terror through Ardenoaige, and surroundingneighbourhoods. It was generally believed, when suchappeared, or was seen, that it was the spirit of tome de»6parted person, doomed to such a state for some secretcrime committed while on earth. To this mysteriousappearance became the object of much conjecture a-mong the people of Ardenoaige, except the wiser sortrvho remained in silent amazement,’knowing it to bethe doing cf the all-wise for some unhuman cause. Ithad its abode in the very centre of the glen, in the mostlonely part of it. It appeared that it could not extendits rapacious designs beyond a limited space of the glen ;but sad were the effects of its outrages there. Man andbeast alike became the victims of this unearthly de¬stroyer. It was quite evident that it had no power whileit was day, nor until the sun went down ; consequentlythe benighted traveller was sure to become a prey, tothe fury of this spirit. The laird of Ardenoaige had aperson whom he employed for carrying parcels to andfrom the south, commonly called the post, he was be¬nighted coming through'Fenhaglen, and was met by theGhost, and torn to pieces. Part of him was found ina linn in the burn of Fenhaglen. The linn is called thepost’s linn to this day. The tenants of Ardenoaige hadhuts built in Fenhaglen, idiich they called the sheahngs,to which they all resorted wHh their cattle andsheepin thewarm months of summer. They were obliged to with¬draw from this pleasant habitation with their flocks onaccount of the ravagings of the flend. Some of thesehuts' or houses were thrown down ; stones w'eretumbled out of their places ; heather, bushes, andearth, torn up and scattered abroad, these, andmany more, were the depredations committed bythe Ghost of Fenhaglen. There is a deep rocky denon the side of the glen, which it was supposed, was thecentre of its abode. Horrible were the mornings androarings, that were beard by the inhabitants of Arden¬oaige on the calm gloamings, when they met togetherafter the toils of the day ; or that were carried to theirears by the stormy wind that roll’d through the glen.About this time the laird was called from the bosom ofhi« family and from his domestic enjoyments, in conse¬quence of the disturbance in which Scotland was in-7volved, on account of the minority of James the third.His wife was anxious that colin would accompany hisfather, thinking in herself that, happily, he might fall inthe field of battle. But his father absolutely refusedto take him away, on account of his parental affectionstowards him. However, the absence of his father, ap¬peared to her a fit opportunity for puling her inhumandesign against him into execution. And among the manyplans she hail formed in her mind, the Ghost of I'enlia-glen appeared to her the most likely to put an end tohis life. If she could invent some scheme, to puthim that way. She at length disclosed her mindto some of her more intimate ond trust-worthy friends,and they agreed, that she should invite them and allthat she could trust, to a dinner, and also to have theyoung laird present, that they might have an opportunityof imposing upon him. Accordingly, splendid prepara¬tions w'as made, and they all met on the day appointed.In the course of conversation they turned on the Ghostsof Fenhaglen, remarking the hononr aud piaise thatwould be due to the man, that would put a stop to theformidable proceedings of the Ghost, and one of theboldest began to reproach thtHhird for his unmanly con¬duct, in allowing the Ghost to do so much harm with¬out endeavouring to stop its progress. He that wasbecome the theme of the whole country for his braveryand accomplishments ! but he feared that his fame wouldcome to nought, for now he was believed to be an in¬dolent person, that direful were the effects of that infer¬nal spirit, and in short if he would not go and dispatchit, he would soon become the most despised person in thecountry. Sensible of his mother’s, and the whole com¬pany’s disposition towards him, he left the room withoutgiving them much satisfaction, and retired to his ownroom, to meditate on the subject at his own leisure, ashe never thought a Ghost could be conquered by thestrength of man, he was therefore thunder-sruck withwhat he heard, and as his noble mind could ill put upwith such insulting reproofs, and being unaccustomed!to such reproachful language, his mind did arouse, inso-8much that he was determined, whatever would be theresult, to wage war* with the Ghost. Yet there weremany objections that arose in his mind. He thought itimpossible to conquer a being, that it could put itselfinto any form or shape, and that could blast him todeath in a moment, or tear him in pieces, in an instant,and that he would die an ignominious death, and thathis name would be lost for ever in dishonour, and dis¬grace, and though it would give satisfaction to his fewvicious enemies, yet he would be lost for ever to themany that were his friends, and more especially to herthat had his form imprinted on his heart. Yet on theother hand, he would rather suffer death in any shape,than lose the honour to which he had aspired, and tobecome that indocible person, told him by his insiduousfriends ; hut if happily he tvould come off the victor,he would be more dreaded than envied by bis enemies,or rather by her his enemy. Accordingly, next morningas the sun was shading its bright beams through the calmvale of Ardenoaige o’er the green lofty mountains of Al¬mond, when Colin left his father’s hall, with his sword bel¬ted on his side, and his dog, Shulach, (a large grey houndthat always accompanied him in his hunting excursions)he deemed it prudent before proceeding, to let Par nansgeule, know of his intended exploit. Accordingly, hewent to his house, (the laird knew he was well versedin the know ledge of Ghosts)and told him of his design.Peter after a short pause, said, “ Colin my man, if youwere going to raise that weapon in a combat with man,though it were one of the bravest of our forefathers, Fin-gal’s heros, I would have hopes of your success ; but tofight the Ghost of Fenhaglen must be a different thing.You are strong Colin, but if you go, you must not goin your own strength; you must go in the strength ofthat Almighty power who can strengthen your arm, andwhet your sword against the most infernal power. Hethat confined that Ghost to that lonely abode where itis, and in his mercies withheld it from extending itsravages farther, here among us, must be the same thatcan draw it from us, when He fulfilled his purposes hero0tvitli it. And itda likely you may.be the one that willbe instrumental in subduing it, and bringing to light thecause of its appearance ; for we have heard of many aGhost sent to rest by man. But as I said before, youmust not go in your own strength. It may come in theshape of some fierce animal, and crush you to death ina moment. But take your sword, and mark out a com¬pass right round about you, and stand right in thecentre, with your confidence placed in the Almighty'sprotection, so you can stand in that position, againstwhatever form it may appear unto you, until such timeas it will transform itself into the form of a person likeyourself; then you can converse with it, and know thereason of its appearance, and use your best means tosend it to its rest. Now you must be aware, that youare going as if you were to descend down the face of asteep rock, by means of a rope, and it is that mightypreserver that is to hold the rope ; and if you will stilltrust him, he will guide you safe to the bottom, but ifyou fail in the confidence, He will let you go, and youwill be dashed to pieces. This is your situation, gothen, and may He that guides our sun by day, and ourmoon by night go with you, hut you must take someperson with you, and you will leave them with yourdog at a distance, and instruct him to let your dog goif you are like to be overpowered by the Ghost; for Ihave heard old men say, that a grey hound was a goodguard, if one was going the way of Ghosts; and if Iwere as swift as I was that day your father was born,when I went to St. Johnston and back in one day, Iwould not be the last to follow you up the glen. Youwill take Donald Ban, your own man with you, as heis a fit person.” Accordingly Colin went to Donald—known by the name of “ Domuhull Ban Achleibh,”*he lived in the uppermost house in Ardenoaige, calledthe Tomodhar, when Colin came to the house, Donaldtold him there was a deer that went west along the side* Because he carried the Laird’s luggage with himfrom place to place.10of the hill, and they would go and follow, but the lairdtold him that he was to direct his chase another course.You will go and put yourself ready, for I intend (he didnot deem it proper, to let Donald know of his intendedact) to go over to Glenlednick, to behold the beauty oftheir far famed maids. They are bright as the dew thatfalls on that flowery green, and pure as that stream thatwimples down the hill. Their beauty and simplicityhave endeared them to thousands. Accordingly thelaird and Donald set out, and as they were ascending thehill above Ardenoaige to the mouth of the glen, the younglaird beheld the Angel of his soul walking on the shoresof Lawers, viewing the ever busy wave, sporting withthe sandy shore, and longing to see Colin's boat dancingon the billows towards her, (she was daughter to thelaird of Lawers, an ancient family of the name of Camp¬bell, and she was no less eminent for her beauty, thanColin was for his bravery) and as he was gazing on thetreasure of his heart, Donald who had the Ghost in hismind, and was anxious that they would go on, to bethrough the glen ere the sun would set, and as theywere about to lose sight of Ardenoaige, there was asilent thought that passed over his soul that it was thelast, the last, to her whose eye followed him wistfully asthey wrent forward, the sun was gone down o’er Ben-law'ers, and sable night was begun to shade its greymantle o'er the sides of Fenhaglen as they went along.Donald who began to fear what was the design of thelaird, absolutely refused to go forward any farther, butthe laird drew his sword, and told him the whole of hisdesign, and before he would let him go, he would piercehis sword to his heart. So when Donald heard this,he wras silent, and on they went, tijl near the place oftheir destination, there he left Donald with the chargeof his dog, Shulach, and charged him, for his life, notto go back, but stand'on that spot. He also gave himinstructions when to let go his dog. The laird thenwent onward to a green plain where he took up hisposition, and put himself in readiness to meet his an¬tagonist, when he heard a doleful lamentation rising outof the deep den, and still approaching nearer to him,till at length it appeared right before him, in the formof a large black animal, roaring and tearing the groundas it came. Colin having fixed Peter’s counsels in hisheart, stood fast in his compass, while the Ghost wentround foaming with rage, and tearing the ground as itwent, but could not approach the laird. And when itwas exhausted with rage, it stood still, when the lairdconjured it to appear in the form of man. In a momentit appeared in the likeness of man—a man he knew thathad died sometime before, one Donald Macpherson.As the laird knew it was to be either death or victory,he sprung out of his compass, and in the vigour of hisstrength took a death hold of the Ghost; but his strengthbegan to fail under the inexpugnable fury of the Ghost,and was half brought to the ground, when he cried forthis dog, (whom Donald kept at a distance, solicitousabout the fate of his master, knowing his life was boundin his) when the Ghost saw the flog, he descried thelaird to keep it off, and he would let him go. But thelaird refused, except he would go and rest in peace inhis grave. But it told him his body was lying in hisgrave, only his spirit was there. Go then to the regionsof spirits, and return no more. Let me go, and dwellon the raging sea. Go to thy place, or my dog shall beupon you, replied the laird. Hold your dog, and heremy voice. It drew back from the laird, and after ashort pause, said in a low voice, “ I murdered a mannear this spot, a short time before my death. His bodywith my spade, with which I slew him, lyes buried atthe rock of that green knowe, his blood is on the spade,I could not wash it off, his innocent blood went hencewith my soul, and I was doomed to return to molestthe earth till my known guilt would be known to man.Go then, and take his body and bury him with hisfather’s, and make my crime known to man, and I willtrouble man no more.” At which it vanished out ofsight. Colin went and actually found the body and thespade in the very spot told by the Ghost. He thenwent and told his sad tale to the men of Ardenoaige,12»nd they came and knew the body, to be the body ofone Duncan M'Nab, tenant, Succoth. Till then no manknew how he met with his death. There was prior tothat time a thief that lived in a cave on the top of craigucaig, a high rock, standing on the confines of Glenled-nick and Fenhaglen. He lived on the best and fattestof their sheep in both countries, to their great vexation,without knowing who was their depredator. One snowymorning as Duncan M‘Nab went out to see if his sheepwas safe in the fold, he saw the entrails of one of hisbest wedders on the ground, and a man’s track on thesnow. Destracted with rage he took his sword in hishand, and followed the track on to the top of the rock.In he went, unconscious of fear ; but when he sawthe terrible appearance of the thief his strength andcourage passed from him as a dream, and the thief hadhim down when he asked mercy, and the thief askedhim how he came there ? He told him he missed hisway passing the hill, and came in on the track. Thethief then gave him meat, then drew his sword andmade hinnfwear by his God, not to mention what hesaw to.any man, or he would dispatch him in a moment ;and never to be so rash as to come to seek the placeagain ; for his life was as little in his sight, when hecame in, as the life of a cock—after he swore, he got off.Duncan was a righteous sort of a man, and never toldany person, till the thief was long out of the place.Donald Macpherson met with great loss by the thief,and he found fault with Duncan for not letting himknow in time that the thief was there. This was knownto be the cause of the dispute between Donald Mac¬pherson and Duncan M‘hJab, while building a hut inFenhaglen. The fame of the laird went far, and hewas feared and tespected by all, even by his mother,who had no power nor spirit to plot more against him.FINIS.