ODDS AND ENDS,OR, AGil OAT’S-WO II Til OF FUNF0I1 A PEMMUSf.1 Being' a Coliectioa o-f (lie best 3oli.es, ComicStories, Anecdotes, Bonnots, &c.The riper who was carried away for dead during the Plague in,London, but revived before interment.—See p. 22.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.GROAT’S-WORTH OF FUNF«m A JPEAXY.A Sailor taking a walk in a field, observed abull rapidly advancing towards him—‘Helm-a lee,messmate,’ he cried out at the top of his voice.The bull, however, probably not comprehendingthe injunction, speedily levelled his adviser withthe ground. ‘ There, you stupid,’ said the tar,as he raised himself, evidently more in sorrowthan in anger, on his elbow, ‘ didn’t 1 tell youyou’d run foul of me.’The Grey Ass.—Shortly after the Battle ofWaterloo, and while the Duke of Wellingtonwas at the height of his popularity, the Bonifaceof a village inn somewhere in England, whoseestablishment flourished under the name of ‘ TheGrey Ass,’ resolved to add to the popularity ofhis house by substituting a painting of the GreatCaptain, for the one which had so long dangtedabove his door. So resolved, so done. A travel¬ling artist was employed ; the ‘ Grey Ass’ wasobliterated; and the Duke ‘reigned in his stead.’Alas, however, for the uncertainty of human cal¬culations ; this event, to which he had looked3forward with the certainty of its increasing hisbusiness, and consequently his coffers, proved toour landlord a source of bitter vexation and dis¬appointment;—a rival in the village had adoptedhis discarded sign, and as the country bumpkinswere better acquainted with their old friend theAss, than with his new successor, the consequencewas that they followed their old acquaintance andleft the Duke ‘alone with hisglory.’ This was notto be borne; our landlord, having nothing else todo, put his brains to steep to devise some plan tocounteract his fatal error; and the result of hiscogitations appeared shortly after in an additionto his signboard, immediately under the figure ofthe Duke, on which was painted, in large letters,the significant intimation—‘ This is the Old GreyAss.’ Whether the exhibition of the Duke ofWellington, with such an addition to his titles,produced the desired eifect, we have not learned.A person desiring to be witty at the expenseof a Jew whom he met, accosted him thus—‘ ’Tisa wonder, Isaac; that we never hear of the deathof a Jew, ora Jack-ass; how does it happen, eh?*Well, mishter,’replied Isaac, ‘ I does’nt rightlyknow; but perhaps you and I will be the first inthis neighbourhood.’The following exquisite lines, the result of atrue appreciation of the sublime and beautiful innature, are copied from the Album kept at a smallinn on the Banks of the Windermere, in Cum¬berland—I never eats no meat,Nor drinks no beer,But sighs and ruminatesOn Windermere.4Mr. Ogilvie, minister of the parish of Liman, inthe county of Forfar, had a great deal of eccentri¬city in his composition. ' One Sunday an old wo¬man, who kept a puhlic-house in the parish, withwhom Mr. Ogilvie was well acquainted, fell asleepin the church during sermon—not an uncommonOccurrence. Her neighbour kept jogging in orderto awake her. Mr. Ogilvie observing this, criedout, ‘Let her aiane, I’ll waken her mysel’, I’llwarrant ye.’—‘Phew! phew! (whistling) abottle o’ ale an’a dram, Janet’—‘Cornin’ Sir.’was instantly replied.—‘ There now,’ says theminister, ‘ I tald ye it wadna be lang afore that Iwaken’d her!’An Obedient Wife.—A Mr. P n, ofDublin, was one morning boasting among hisfriends that lie had the best wife in the world,and the reason he gave was, that she did everything that he bid her. ‘By Jasus,’ said one ofthe party, ‘ I’ll bet a dinner for the present party,that she will not boil a roasting pig.’ ‘ Done,’said the husband. To market a messenger wasdespatched to buy the pig, the company takingcare that the husband should have no means ofcommunication with home. The pig beingbrought, was sent to his house with this message,‘that Mrs. P n was to have the roasting pigboiled, and sent to a certain tavern in time fordinner!’ The messenger, on delivering the pig tocookee, was accosted with, ‘ sure now, the masteris mad!—boil a roasting pig!—By Jasus, I’ll notboil the pig! Sure and now you have made a bigblunder! Boil a roasting pig, indeed! But, how¬ever, a pig is a pig, and I’ll take it to the mistress;and sure and now it is a big blunder! Boil ai roasting pig 1 - as ever such a matter as that rI;\t the hour appointed came the dish under a|! rover; and as cookee passed up the room to place; ton the table, ‘is the pig boiled or roasted?'S vhispered every body in his ear. Not a wordinpake cookee; but, on uncovering the dish, the|i roasting pig was boiled sure enough ; and Mrs.P n pronounced universally‘to be the most| obedient wife in Dublin.’—(A true story, as Pat| would say.)March of Intellect.—A gentleman theI other day visiting Mr. Wood’s school in Edinburgh,i had a book put into his hand for the purpose ofexamining a class. The word inheritance owm-ring in the verse, the querist interrogated theyosmgster as follows:—‘ What is inheritance?'A. ‘Patrimony.’ ‘What is- patrimony ?’ A.‘ Something left by a father.’ ‘ What would youcall it if left by a mother ?’‘ A. Matrimony.’What colours were the winds and waves thefast .tempest at sea ? Answer—The winds blewand the waves rose.A gentleman walking along Parliament-street,towards the Abbey, overtook a butcher who had atray filled with sheeps’ heads on his shoulder ;the butcher was humming a tune, and his light1-heartedness induced the gentleman to observe tohim, that he had more brains than most men.‘ Fes, Sir,’ said the butcher, ‘ I am carrying themto the House of Lords.’ ‘Aye, aye,’ said a by¬stander, they are very much wanted there.Sir Isaac Newton was once riding over Salis¬bury plain, when a boy keeping sheep called tohim, ‘ Sir, you had better make haste on, oryou will get a wet jacket.’ Newton, looking6round, and observing neither clouds nor a speck onthe horizon, jogged on, taking very little notice oithe rustic’s information. He had made but 4few miles, when a storm suddenly arising wettedhim to the skin. Surprised at the circumstance^and determined, if possible, to ascertain how anignorant boy had attained a precision and know¬ledge in the weather, of which the wisest philoso¬phers would be proud, he immediately rode back,'wet as he was. ‘ My lad,’ said Newton, ‘I’ll;give thee a guinea if thou wilt tell me how thouicanst foretel the weather so truly.' ‘Will ye,Sir? I will then,’ said the boy, scratching hishead, and holding out his hand for the guinea.‘ Now, Sir,’ having received the money, and point-to his sheep, ‘ when you see that black ram turnhis tail towards the windj ’tis a sure sign of rainwithin an hour.’ ‘What! exclaimed the philoso¬pher, ‘must I, in order to foretel the weather,stay here and watch which way that black ramturns his tail?’ ‘Yes Sir.’ Off rode Newtonquite satisfied with his discovery, but not much ;inclined to avail himself of it or recommend it toothers.Military Monceuvre.—A few days sincea gallant and distinguished military officer, who,though unlike Falstaff in one respect, possesses *among other characteristics of that celebrated per- ;son, his facetious disposition, and goodness ofheart, was passing along Deansgate, when he iobserved a crowd surrounding a shop door, and ‘inquired the cause. He was told that an unlucky iurchin had just fractured a pane of glass, and thatthe shopkeeper was detaining him in pledge forthe payment of the damage. ‘ How much is it?’inquired the son of Mars.—* Half-a-crown,’ was1the answer.—' Oh, is that all ?’ rejoined the officer,and thereupon unbuttoned one of his breeches'pockets which the unwitting shopkeeper consideredas an indication that the money was forthcoming,and with this pleasing anticipation let off the boy,who was soon out of the way. The gallant tacti¬cian observing the success of his plan, and havingnow had his hand in bis pocket a sufficient lengthof time, deliberately re-buttoned up his treasure,and with suitable nonchalance laughed and rodeaway, to the no small amusement of the spectators,who raised a loud shout at the painful expense ofthe disappointed tradesman.Being in company, and the ‘Tuscan grape'producing more riot than concord, Foote saw onegentleman so far gone in debate as to throw thebottle at his antagonist’s head, upon which,catching the missile in his hand, he restored theharmony of the con party, by observing, that if thebottle was passed so quickly, not one of themwould be able to stand out the evening.A lady, seeing her lover running in great haste tomeet her, observed to him, that he must be in avery great hurry t6 run so fast. ‘Madam,’ repliedthe lover, ‘1 vtras/o/Zom/wg-my inclination.’THE WEEPING WIDOW.Lady B , who, in public, bewails her deadspouse,While in private, her thoughts on another areturning;Reminds ug of lighting a fire with green boughs,Which weep at one end, while the other isburning. rA Lord Lieutenant, going over to Ireland withhis lady and family, was in his passage, overtaken3W sS vkildit a storm, that the mariners themselves£ave the vessel over for lost, and expected everyIninute that she would either founder or go ashore.At this juncture a sailor observing one of the men¬ials standing pale with fear at the cabin door,came up to him, and asked him if ever he hadlain with the duchess. ‘No,’ says the poorfellow, frightened at such waggery in such adangerous time. ‘ Why then,' says the tar, ‘youhave that pleasure to come; for by G—, weshall lie with her grace in less than half an hour.’The duke, who overheard this, when the stormwas abated, and the, danger was over, sent thefellow a handsome present, and forgave him theimpudence of the jest.Accommodation.—The following curiousnotice was affixed to the residence of a gentleman,whoso premises had suffered by some nightly de¬predators.—‘ Notice, those persons who have beenin the habit of stealing my fence for a considerabletime past, are respectfully informed, that if agree¬able to them it will be more convenient to me ifthey steal my wood, and leave the fence for thepresent, and as it may be some little inconveniencegetting over the paling, the gate is left open fortheir accommodation.Anonymous Baptism.—The late Mr. M‘Cub-bin of Douglas, a most happy humourist, andw ho was seldom outwitted, had his gravity severelyput to the test upon one occasion when officiatingin a neighbouring congregation, by a rustic whowas no less impudent than ignorant. After havingadministered the vows, and received the satisfactorynods, the clown reached up the child towards thepulpit to receive the initiatory sprinkling withouteither whispering the name or tendering a line to9that effect. The minister had for a considerabletime bent his head, and inclined his head to nopurpose; until at last his patience beginning tofail, he addressed the .sponsor in rather a surlytone, ‘Your child’s name ?’ Not a syllable fromthe man ! Mr. M'Cubbin repeated very audibly,‘Your child’s name. Sir?’ ‘Ye’ve naethingado wi' that,’ rejoined the fellow, ‘gie ye’t itswater,’ which the good man was obliged to do, tothe no small merriment of the gaping congregation.Daniel Purcel, the Hibernian punster, goingalong with a great mob of spectators assem¬bled to see a culprit pass to his execution at Ty¬burn, asked a genteel person, who was standing inthe crowd, what was the name of the fellow goingto be hanged. He answered, ‘ One Vowel.’‘ Ah !’ said Purcel, ‘Do you know which of themit is, for there are several of that name ?’ * No,’returned the other, ‘I do not.’ ‘ Well,’ said thewag, ‘ this however is certain, and I am very gladof it, that it is neither £7 nor /.’VVhen the Leith Docks were to be opened, oldGow’s band was summoned to play some appro¬priate air, and Sir Waller Scott suggested ‘Waterparted from the sea.’Military Etiquette.—During the late,re¬bellion in Ireland, General Berresford (nowPeer and Field-Marshal) commanded a district,and, upon one occasion, proceeded to inspect acountry Corps of Veomanry, drawn up for'thatpurpose. On riding up to their front, instead ofbeing received with ‘presented arms,’ he found th?corps ‘standing at ease.’ The Captain hact, infact, on first seeing the General, given the word‘attention,” to which no attention was paid- but,10pressed by the General’s rapid approach, he pro¬ceeded to the next order of his formula, ‘shoulderarms.’ To add to his embarrassment, however,the arms moved not. The General, with hischaracteristic good-nature, suggested to the Com¬mandant to speak in a louder tone, who, not alittle indignant, repeated with a Stentorian voice,‘shoulder arms,’ but all to no purpose; there stoodthe corps, dogged and motionless. Such a totalapparent ignorance of the manual exercise, na¬turally excited the chagrin of the. Captain, and theastonishment of the General, to whom the formeronly a few days before had been puffing off thediscipline of his corps. At length, the Generalhaving intimated his intention of reporting thecorps, was about to leave the field, when a Ser¬jeant with his ‘halbert recovered,’ stepped in frontof the ranks, and addressed the General in thefollowing terms:—r-‘Plase your honour, General;don’t think the corpse does not know its exerciseas well as any sojers in the land. There is notmin in the country knows how to use their arms,aye and their legs, too, bitter than those afore you;but since you must know the thruth, Sir, the minand the Captain of late have not been on spakingJenns.’Who a^o Hoo.—A little girl lately brought avolume to a Glasgow librarian, with the followingmessage:—‘ John sent me wi’ this book, and hewants the next ane.’ ‘ And who is John,’ ques¬tioned the man of books, to which the girl veryreadily answered, ‘ he’s gettin better.’ACehtificate Easily Got.—As the late MrG , farmer at Duddingstone, once stood at hisgate, an Irish lad came up to him and requestedto be employed.IIMr. G.—Go away, sir, I will never employany of your country again.Irishman.—Why, your honour? sure we aregood workers? God bless you, do give me a job.Mr. G.—No, sir, I wont; for the last IrishmanI employed died upon me, and I was forced tobury him at my own charge.Irishman.—Ah ! your honour, you need notfear that of me, for I can get you a certificate thatI never died in the employment of any master Iever served.There was no resisting. Poor Paddy got em¬ployed at once, and remained a faithful servantuntil his master’s death.A Lazy Horse.— Some time ago, a jolly farmerfrom D went to Falkirk for ‘sax furlots o'beans,’ which he had trysted from a Carse farmer,near B . After spending the day in dram¬drinking and fun with his cronies, about the ‘go*,ing down of the siin' he bethought himself of step¬ping home. The landlord of the S -publichouse, with the assistance of his stable-boy, gotthe beans, and what was more difficult still, the‘ gudeman himsel’ ’ on horseback. So off Saundersgot almost galloping. Unluckily, however, at asharp turning of the road on Iris route, down cameour hero, beans an’ a’. The whisky (wae betill’t) had so deranged his powers of perception.,that he mounted his bean-sack instead of his mare,that was standing at some distance, no doubt wellpleased to see her master belabouring the bean-sack instead of her own bony protuberances. Atthis moment up comes one of his neighbours, whohad, like himself, staid too long in Falkirk, andseeing a man riding on a sack in the middle of theroad, at that time of the night, made a solemn12pause. After listening a while, he began to con¬jecture who it was, and venturing a little nearer heexclaims,—‘ Preserve us, what are you doinghere?’—‘What am I doing here!’ says Saunders,‘I’ve been fechtin’ this twa hours wi’ that stupidmare o’ mine, and deil ae fit she’ll lift yet.’MY SHIRT.As Bayes, whose cup with poverty was dash’d.Lay snug in bed, while his one shirt was wash’d;The dame appeared, and holding it to view,Said, ‘If ’tis washed again, ’twill wash in two.’‘ Indeed,’ cried Bayes; then wash it, pray, goodcousin,And, wash it, if you can, into a dozen /’A farmer who regularly attends Devizes market,some short time since, (finding the article unsale¬able) gave another farmer 100 bushels of potatoes,which he was to send for, and on meeting there,the following dialogue took place:—‘ How did the’tatiesturn out?’ ‘Oh, main, good; I never eatedbetter uns for the time o’year, and they are prettynigh gone.’ ‘ Well, thee may ha’ some more ontun if thee likest.’ ‘ Why if I do, thee and memust ha’ a fresh agreement.’ ‘ Fresh agreement!why dint I gie thee the’taties?’ ‘Ah, but I can’tafford to ha’ ony more if thee don’t pay one of thepikes!’ The waggon had to pass two turnpikegates, the toll at one was 4d. and the other 4|d.The Bane and Antidote.—The town bellmanof Kirriemuir having received a written advertise¬ment to that effect, proclaimed in the midst of theassembled multitude, on a fair day, in that ancientburgh of regality or barony, as follows:—‘Notish.—All persons driving their cattle through the landsof Logie, to or from the market, will be prosecuted13with the utmost rigourof law. And, immediatelyafter, by way of sedative to the natives, exclaimed—‘Ye needna mind a’ this, lads; it’s only a havero’ the grieve’s!A simple Highland girl, on her way home forthe north, called, as she passed by Crieff, upon anold master with whom she had formerly served.Being kindly invited by him to share in the familydinner, and the usual ceremony of asking a blessinghaving been gone through, the poor girl, anxiousto compliment, as she conceived, her ancient host,exclaimed, ‘Ah, master, ye maun hae a grandmemory, for that’s the grace ye had when L waswi’ you seven years ago.’A Last Century Anecdote.—Mr. Ross, Pit-calnie, an ingenious humourist, who spent hip lat¬ter years chiefly in Edinburgh, was one night(about the year 1780) reeling home in a state ofintoxication through Sf. Andrew-Square, whenhis fancy suggested to him the following amusinghoax upon Sir Lawrence Dundas. It occurred tohis remembrance, on seeing Sir Lawrence’s tinehouse (now the office of the Royal Bank of Scot¬land), that that gentleman was then known to beengaged in the laudable business of prevailing uponthe members of the town council of Edinburgh toelect him their representative in parliament, andthat he had already secnred the approbation of somany of these worthy trustees of the public in¬terest that, but for one recusant deacon, he wascertain of his election. It was known that SirLawrence had tried every possible means to bringover this dissentient voice, but hitherto withoutsuccess; and there was some reason to apprehendthat, after all the pains he had expended upon the14rest, the grand object would not eventually be ac¬complished. Pitcalnie bethought him to assum 'the name of the deacon, to enter the house of thecandidate, call for what entertainment he pleased,and, finally, as Sir Lawrence was confined to bedwith gout, to go away without being discovered.No sooner had he settled the plan in his own mindthan he proceeded to put it in execution. Reel¬ing up to the door he rung the bell with all theinsolent violence which might have been expectedfrom so consequential a person as the individual hewished to personate, and presently down came ahalf-dressed lacquey, breathing curses, not loud butdeep, against the cause of this unseasonable annoy¬ance. ‘Tell your master,’ said'Pitcalnie, ‘thatDeacon (mentioning the name of the impor¬tant elector) wishes to see him,’ When the manwent up, and told Sir Lawrence that Deacon had come drunk to the door, wishing to seehim, the heart of the old gentleman leapt withinhim, and he instantly sent down his complimentsto his respected visitor, begging him to excuse hisnon-appearance, which was only owing to extre¬mity of illness, but entreating that he would enter,and |n every respect use the house as Ins own.Pitcalnie grunted out an assent to the last part ofthe message, and, being shown into a room, beganto call lustily about him. In the first place heordered a specimen of Sir Lawrence’s port, nextof his sherry, then of his claret, and lastly of hischampagne. When he had drunk as much as hecould, and given a most unconscionable degree oftrouble to the whole household, he staggered off,leaving it to Sir Lawrence to come, next day, tothe best explanation he could with the deacon.‘ If Britannia rules the waves,’ said a qualmish15writing-master, going to Margate in a storm, ‘I. wish she’d rule them straighten'An Irishman having a looking glass in his hand,shut his eyes, and placed it before his face; anotherasking him why he did so, ‘Upon my soul,’ sa^sTeague,‘it is to see how I look when I am asleep.’A lady that had married a gentleman who wasa tolerable poet, one day sitting alone with him,said, ‘come my dear, you write upon other people—prithee, write something for me: let me see whatepitaph you’ll bestow on me when dead.’ ‘Oh !my dear,’ replied he, ‘that’sa.melancholy subject!don’t think of it.’ ‘ Nay, upon my life, you shall,’says she; ‘come, I’ll begin: Here lies Bid.’ Towhich he answered, ‘ Ah ! I wish she did.’Mr. O’Connel, who is remarkable for the suc¬cessful verdicts he obtains, having been latelyrobbed of his wardrobe, replied to a friend thatwas lamenting his loss, ‘Never mind, my dear Sir;for surely as I have gained-so many suits, I canafford to lose a few.’The late Mr. Miitray, who was of a Very cre¬dulous disposition, was tClnrig a very strange andimprobable story, when he observed Fawcett cast’a very doubtful eye. ‘Zounds, Sir,' says he, ‘Isaw the thing happen.’ 1 ff you did,’ says Faw¬cett, ‘ I must believe it; but by I would pothave believed it if I had seen it myself.’A countryman busy sowing his ground, twosmart fellows riding that way, one of them calledto him with an insolent air, ‘‘Well, honest fellow,’said he, ‘His your business to sow, but we reap tpefruits of your labour.’ To which the countrymanreplied, ‘’Tis very like you may, for I am sowinghemp.’16Lady Carteret, wife of the Lord Lieutenant ofIreland, in Swift's time, said to him, ‘the air of thiscountry is good.’ ‘ For God’s sake, Madam,’ saidSwift, ‘don’t say so in England; if you do, theywill certainly tax it.’When Mr. Wilberforce was a candidate forHull, his sister, an amiable and witty young lady,offered the compliment of a new gown to each ofthe wives of those freemen who voted for herbrother, on which, she was saluted with a cry of‘Miss Wilberforce for ever!’ when she pleasantlyobserved—‘ Thank you, gentlemen, but I cannotagree with you, for, really, I do not wish to beMiss Wilberforce for ever.’An elderly man, from the Braes of Athol, whohad never seen either a ship or sea in his life, oncechanced to be crossing from Kinghorn to Leith ona very stormy day, and as the vessel heeled terri¬bly, he ran to the cords and held down with hiswhole vigour, to keep her from upsetting. * Forte sake of our Ihives, shentles, come and holdtown!’ cried he; ‘or if you will nhot pe helpingmhe. I’ll Ihet you all go to te bhottom in onemhoment. And you ploughman tere, cannot youkheep te howe of te furr, and no gang ower tecrown of te rhiggs avaw? Heich ?’ The steers¬man at this laughing aloud, the Highlander wasirritated, and with one of the levers he ran andknocked him down. ‘Nhow! laugh you nhow?’said he; ‘ and you weel deserve it all, for it wasyou who put her so mbad, kittling her thail withtat pin.'There is. but one instance known, in whichKing James II. made a reply of wit and humourAfter King William had landed, it was announcedto JaniesTl. t 'Sire, such a great lord lias left yoti,and has gone over to King WilliaiU.’ PrinceGeorge of Denmark, exclaimed, cest il possible !'Again it was announced to James, that anothergreat lord had gone over to William : ‘est il pos¬sible !’ again exclaimed Prince George: and sohe did always—exclaiming, ‘est il possible ! uponfevery new defection. At last. Prince Georgehimself went over to William; and when his de-ifectibn was announced to James II., ‘ What,’ saidthe King, is ‘ eat il possible gone toA Highlander from the small isles, who hadnever been in a church, or heard a sermon in hislife, came over to a sacrament on the mainland,and the service being in his native tongue, he paidgreat attention till the psalm was given out, for hehad missed the first one. When the precentorfell a-bawling out, Donald could not comprehendthat, and called to some to stop him; but howwas he astounded, when the whole congregationfell a-gaping and bawling with all their energy !Donald, conceiving it altogether a fit of madness,of which the precentor was the primary' cause,bustled up to him, and gave him a blow on theside of the head, till the book dropped from hishand. ‘ What do you mean, sir,’ said the clerk.‘HumphJ pe you taking tat,’said Donald; ‘foryou was te pekinner of tis tamn toohoe !George the Fourth, when Prince of Wales,meeting Mr. Column at a convivial party, com-a posed of the first wits of the dayT, gaily observed,that there were two George the Youngers in com¬pany. ‘ But,’ continued his royal highness, ‘Ishould like to know who is George the Youngest?’? Oh!’ replied Colman, very happily, ‘ 1 could18' never have had the rudeness to come into theworld before your royal highness.’Foote and Carrick were at a tavern together,at the time when the gold coin was regulated.Foote taking out his purse to pay his reckoning,asked Carrick what he should do with a lightguinea. ‘Pshaw! it is worth nothing,’said Car¬rick ; so fling it to the devil.’ * Well, David,’said Foote, ‘ you are an ingenious fellow, as I al¬ways thought you; ever contriving to make aguinea go farther than any other man.’One day Bannister was obliged to take shelterfrom the rain in a comb-maker’s shop, in Holborn,where an old man was at work. ‘ I am sorry,’said he, ‘ that a person of your time of life shouldsuffer so much pain.’ ‘ Pain ! I have no pain,thapk God !’ said the man. ‘ surely you must,’said the wit, ‘ are you not cutting your teeth ?'Coming into a coffee-house one stormy night,Bannister said, ‘ I never saw such a wind in mylife.' ‘ Saw a wind,’ said a friend ; * pray whatwas it like? ‘Like,’answered Bannister, ‘liketo have blown my hat ofl’.’EPIGRAM.‘Is my wife out of spirits,’ said Sir J#hn, with asigh;(For he fear’d that a tempest was forming:)* Quite out, sir, indeed,’ said her maid in reply,‘ She finished the brandy this morning.’One day going to Holland House, by the Ham¬mersmith stage, Rogers wras mortified to find thatby the delay of the coachman he had missedmeeting with the noble proprietor. ‘ Why, blessmy heart,' said he, looking at his watch, ‘ youhave been considerably more than an hour bring¬ing me here ! What do you call your coach ?’‘ The Regulator, Sir/ said the man. ‘ The Re¬gulator !’ replied Rogers; it is a very proper title-—for all the other stage coaches go by it/A lady observing Mr. Jekyll directing someletters, one of which was addressed to ‘ Mr. ——Solicitor and another to ‘ Mr. , Attorney.inquired what was the difference between an at¬torney and a solicitor. ‘ Much the same, mydear Madam/ replied the wit, ‘as there is betweena crocodile and an alligator.’Poor Laws.—A man in the last stage of des¬titution, came before the sitting Magistrate,- atLambeth Street, and stated that having by theoperation of the new Poor Laws, been suddenlydeprived of parish assistance, he was reduced tosuch extremity, that if not instantly relieved hemust be driven to do a deed that his soul abhorred.The worthy Magistrate instantly ordered him fiveshillings from the poor-box, and after a suitableadmonition against giving way to despair, askedhim what dreadful deed he would have been im¬pelled to, but for this seasonable relief; ‘Towork/ said the man with a deep sigh as he leftthe office.Scotch Frugality.—A commercial travellerhaving got a settlement of his account with ashopkeeper in Falkirk, invited him to dinner atthe inn. ‘Na, na/ said he, ‘I never gang to aninn ; I’ll no gang. But.just tell me how muckleit would cost you gi’eing me my dinner at the innas ye ca’d?’ ‘Oh! never mind that/ said the tra.veller. ‘Aye, but I want to ken—just tell me/added he oehind the counter. ‘ Oh/ said the tra-$6vellei-j ‘ perhaps six or seven shillings.* r veryweel, then/ replied the curmudgeon, ‘just gi*e methe seven shillings.’A Man of Family.—A decent highlander inBadenoch called lately upon the minister of theparish, and making his how, hoped ‘that Mr   would look in at his house some day andchristen a few bairns for him.* ‘ A few hairns !’exclaimed the minister, ‘what way is that to speak,Donald; how many have.you got?’ ‘ Why, sir,’replied the other, ‘there were three when I leftthe house, but I canna tell how many there maybe since/Blessings of Primogenituke.--A country¬man whose master had two sons, being asked oneday, whether the youngest was married? replied,‘Yes.’ ‘Is the oldest married too ? ‘Na/saidthe sagacious servant, ‘ye ken he’s the younglaird; he canna get a wife till his father dies.’A certain worthy divine from the north, whovisits the general assembly of the kirk of Scotlandevery year, has for time immemorial taken up hisannual abode in a certain tavern in Edinburgh.This healthy mountaineer has an instinctive hor¬ror at all deleterious mixtures in human food,whether solid or liquid; and the reason he assignedfor frequenting the above tavern was, that he couldalways command the luxury of fresh eggs to break¬fast. These he always boiled himself, and wouldtake none except he found them hot from the nest.This year he appeared as usual, like the bitternat her appointed time; but, unfortunately, he laidhis forepaw on a couple of plump eggs, but quitegold, ,and apparently not laid yesterday. Theman of the church waxed wroth, and summoned21the waiter. Betty assured him they were fresh,but could not explain why they were cold. Thelandlady was next taken to task, and threatenedwith the loss of a customer unless this suspiciousphenomenon was satisfactorily clearedup. ‘ ’Deed,sir,' replied the hostess, ‘ I am unco sorry for’t;but to tell Gude’s truth, sir, I couldna get the catto sit on them this morning.’A Sailor’s Notion.— A Sailor, seeing someof our domestic slave-traders driving coloured men,women, and children on board a ship for NewOrleans market, shook his head and said, ‘Jim,if the devil don’t catch them fellows, we might aswell not have any devil.’An American paper says—‘Travellers shouldbe careful to intrust their baggage to proper per¬sons only, as a gentleman a few days since, onalighting from a stage-coach, intrusted his wife toa stranger, and she has not been heard of since.’Montaigne retained during the whole of hislife an elderly female in his service, who had beenthe nurse of his childhood, and to whom he was inthe habit of reading his compositions, on the prin¬ciple that if she could understand them everybodyelse must. On one occasion the philosopher,whilst sipping his morning dish of coffee, accostedher as follows :—‘Nurse, I have made a deep dis¬covery this morning.' ‘ Indeed,’ replied the oldlady; ‘ what is that?’ ‘Why, nurse, you neednot tell amy one, but I have actually found outwhat no one else could suspect.’ ‘ And what isthat, Sir.’ ‘ Why, that I am an old fool.’ ‘LaiSir ! is that all ?’ observed the good woman ; ‘ifyou had but asked me I could have told you that20 years ago—1 have seen it all along.’The Bagpiper.—During the great plague ofLondon, carts were sent round the city each night,the drivers of which rung a bell, as intimation forevery house to bring out its dead. The bodieswere then thrown promiscuously into the cart,conveyed to the suburbs, and buried. A piperhad his constant stand at the bottom of Holborn,near St Andrew’s Church. He became well knownabout the neighbourhood. A certain gentleman,who never failed in his generosity to the piper,was surprised, on passing one day as usual, to misshim from his accustomed place:—upon inquiry,he found that the poor man had been taken ill inconsequence of a very singular accident. On thejoyful occasion of the arrival of one of his country¬men from the Highlands, the piper had in factmade too free with the contents of his keg; theseso overpowered his faculties, that he stretchedhimself out upon the steps of the church, and fellfast asleep. He was found in this situation whenthe dead cart went its rounds; and the carter,supposing that the man was dead, made no scrupleto put his fork under the piper’s belt, and hoistedhim into his vehicle, that our Scottish musicianshould share the usual brief ceremonies of inter-rnen.t; The piper’s faithful dog protested againstthis seizure of his master, jumped into the cart af¬ter him, to the no small annoyance of the men,whom he would not suffer to come near the body;he further took upon himself the office of chiefmourner, by setting up the most lamentable how¬ling as they passed along.. The streets and roadsby which they had to go being very rough, thejolting of the cart, added to the howling of the dog,had soon the effect of awakening our drunken mu¬sician from his trance. Itwasdark; and the piper,23when he first recoverd himself, could form no ideaeither of his numerous companions, or his con¬ductors. Instinctively, however, he felt for hispipes, and playing up a merry Scottish tune, ter¬rified in no small measure the carters, who fanciedthey had got a legend of ghosts in their convey¬ance. A little time, however, put all to rights ;—lights were got, and it turned out that the noisycorpse was the well known living piper, who wasjoyfully released from his awful and perilous si¬tuation. The poor man fell badly ill after hisunpleasant excursion, and was relieved during hismalady by his former benefactor, who, to perpe¬tuate the remembrance of so wonderful an escape,resolved, as soon as his patient recovered, to em¬ploy a sculptor to execute him in stone. Thestatue represents a bagpiper in a sitting posture,playing on his pipes. ( See Frontispiece.)Puffing in Style.—A few days ago a hawker,while cheapening his haberdashery wares, wasbawling out, ‘ Here’s the real good napkins; they’llneither tear, wear, ruffle, nor rive; throw in thewashing,norgoback in the pressing. All the waterbetween therocksofGibralterandtheCapeof GoodHope will not alter the colour of them. Theywere woven seven miles below ground by the lightof diamopds; and the people never saw day-lightbut once in the seven years. They were not wo¬ven by a brosy clumsy apprentice boy, but by aright and tight good tradesman, who got two eggs,and a cup of tea, and a glass of whisky to his. breakfast; and every thread is as long and strongas would bang a bull, or draw a man-of-war shipinto harbotlr.Highland Simplicity.—A poorsimple High¬lander, who last week made his appearance atStifling shore and purchased a cart of lime, motwith an adventure sufficiently untoward. Donaldhad no sooner got his cart well filled, than heturned his own and his horses head to his owndear Highland hills. He had not, however, gotfar beyond Stirling bridge, when a smart showerof rain came on. The lime began to smoke.Donald, who was sitting on the front of his cart,at first supposed it to be nothing but a whiff ofmountain mist, but at last becoming enveloped inthe cloud, and no longer able to see his way be-• fore him, he bethought him it was time to cast alook behind, and was not a little amazed to dis¬cover that the whole cause of the annoyance pro¬ceeded from his cart of lime. It was on fire, buthow wras beyond his comprehension. He stopthis horse and stood still, in hopes the rain wouldquench the intruding element, but remarking noabatement, he next drove his cart to a stream at ashort distance, and taking his shovel, began busilyto throw water upon his smoking load. Thisspeedily brought Donald’s difficulties to a crisis,for his steed, unaccustomed to, the heat whichthreatened to deprive him of his tail, began nowto exhibit symptoms of open rebellion. Besides,seeing that his cart was in danger of being burntto a cinder, and not knowing but, the horse mighttake it into his head to commence burning too,he was resolved the bewitched load and ‘ the puirbe^st and braw bit cart,’ should instantly be dis¬united. He accordingly unyoked the impatientanimal, and immediately buried the smoking limein the stream, triumphantly exclaiming as the his¬sing mass yielded to the overpowering element,f the deil’s in her if she’ll burn noo.’