THESAIN T S’ D U T Yi NEVIL T I M E S.I N T W OSERMONSPreached from Ka. xxvh 20.By Mr James Ren'wick, Minifter of the Gofpel,who fuffered in the Grafs-market of Edinburgh,upon the 17111 day of February, 16S8.Prov. xviii 10. 7he name of the Lord is a Jlrcng tower .*the righteous runneth unto it, and are fafe.Pfalm. xlvi. 1. God is our refuge and Jhrer.gth, a wryprefent help in trouble.THESAINTS’ DUTY IN EVIJL TIMES.ISAIAH XXVI. 20.Co?ne, my People, enter thou into thy chambers, an.iJhut thy doors about thee; hide thyfelf, as it were,Jor a little moment, until the indignation be over-pajl.THE bowels of the Lord’s fympathy towardshis peoplt, ar always burding out, and he,dow not fee them forfaking their own mercy, andflrayiig from him ; but is .much taken up in la¬menting over their lolly, and with giving themmany a moving and fweet invitafon to come tohim, where their happ nets lies, and lays himfelfopen to them, and the riches that are with him,with his arms fpread abroad, inviting them by hisprecious and hearty promifes, feeking nothing offolk, but only. That they Would ‘ come and receive‘ freely,’ Ifa. Iv. I. * Ho, everyone that third* th* come ye to the waters, and he that hath no nno<‘ ney; come ye, buy and eat, yea, come, buy wine* and milk without money, and without price.’He opens up precious and rich ware, and fays tohis buyers and merchants, tl e commodity is good,come away, we IhaU not cad out about the price;if ye have hearts to receive, I have a heart to give :Come away then, hearty gc od-fellows, we will ne¬ver ft and upon it: for ’tis not with him as withthe men of the world, for they count them theheft good-fellows, who give molt and freeheft; butIje counts them the left good-fellows, who willtake moll and freelieft ; and he debars none fromhim, but difeovtrs his rirhes, and invites all. Rev.5xii. 16, 17. ‘1 am the root and offspring of Da-|1’bs SafntS Duty in Evil E'une.i, 3|:jvid, and the bright an ! mornitlg-fiar. A '’ thej Spirit and the bride fay come, and let Him thatt {heareth, fay. cohie, and let" him that it a-fhirit■jijcome. And tvhofoever will, let him take of thei jwater of life freely.’ And if this, and inch fweeti levitations will not prevail, be makes taws tojjlhip his own, to himfelf: terrors -within, andjudgements without, and he never lays on a blow,ut he is ftiil provoked to it, and when be lays itji, the tears ar in his eyes, becaufe-he mull do, Lam. iii. 33. “ For he doth not afflift vvilling-1 ', nor grieve the children of men,” yea, when his(ijwn tarn their backs upon him, he lets them noti.jone, but is 11 ill calling them back again. Zech.3. “ Turn ye unto me, faith the Lord of hotts,lid I will turn unto you, faith the Lord of boils.”nd alfo, when he threatens moll fadly, he failsI bt to make large prothifes to the faithful, and tove the ample invitations “ to come to him,” foreir pleafure and for their fafety, “ come my peo-e, &lc.” When the Lord is coming out of hispace, to fit in judgement upon the inhabitants ofle earth, and to gsve out fenfence up'on them,Recording to t.ieir doings, and to punilh them for1jjbeir iniquities, he calls his own people to himfelf,'there they are to be hid and preferved. O hand.Lill amazed, and .wonder at his tender love, andhtherly care of his children, who will not cqmeith his cloak of zeal, and clothes of vengeance,p give on', and to execute his fentence of jufticeUpon his enemie-s, until that he give his people fairarning thereof, and alfo invites them to theirnelter and fafety, whkh he hath prepared for'nem. Ye know, Ezck. ix. the Lord fends forth,rft, “ A man clothed in 1 nen, with a writer’sik-horn by his fide, to fet a mark upon the fore—ead. of them that figh and cry, for all the abomi¬nations that Ise done in the earth,” and commands,4 Vie Saints' Duty in Evil 'Ti/r.ts.his 1* 011, with the flaughtering weapons in theirhands, to go after, “ And finite, and not fparenor pity, but to Hay utterly, old and young, bothmaids, little children and women; but not to comnear thefe upon whom the mark is fet.”Now the Lord hath men prepared with flaugh¬tering weapons in their hands to kill a facrifice atBozrah in Scotland, of prelates and fnalignants,and of backfliding minifters and profefl'ors ; he iscoming to be avenged ou that curfed throne, and.the fupporters thereof, for the cruelty done againft.him, and ot miniilers and profdTors; for their hei¬nous treachery towards him ; and this is bis com-miflion, and our charge-unto you, to invite and toicall you, and ail that wdl give ear unto this Rockof ages, for your fueUer, unto the chambers of his]prefepce and protection, where ye ihall be f;with delight. “ O come my people,” in wwords, ye have, Firfl, An invitation ** come.” Se-icondlv, The perfons invited, or the deterndnatiithereof. “ my people.” Thirdly, That which theyare invited unto, The chamber of the Lord’s pro-teclion and prefence, whereunto he invites themto “ enter.” Fourthly, Their carriage, and thatwhich t".ey are to do there, “ Shut thy doors a-bi/Ut thee, and hide thyfelf, as it were, far a li tie:moment.” Fifthly, The fafety of thefe chambersbeing an hiding-place, “ until the indignation beover-pailor rathet tne determination of the con¬tinuance of their hiding, “ until the indignation beiover-part.”As to the firft, The invitation, “ Come, O come,’*A homely word indeed ; this is no lefs than, “ Be-4< hold me ! behold me !” Here is enough to give,and here is wiilingr.efs to give, only come, onlyreceive, only take, and ye ilirll not want.But to enlarge a little, we lay down a twofolddoflriue. Dotl. Firfl, “ There is both ability andeIhc Saints' Duty in Evil Times. j-‘ willingnefs in the Lord, to give you whatfoever‘ your neceffity requires.”* Ability',’ What would you have? SalvationI r.d deliverance ; then ‘ He is able to fave to thei>:l nttermoft, all that come unto him,’ Heb. \ ii. 25.iilift up your eyes and behold a wonder, which yeliiiannot beiioli," behold a wonder,- which you can-1 ,3t know, and put forth this queftion, Ifa. Ixiii. 1.Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyedirments from Bozrah ? This that is glorious in hisi Pparel, travelling in the greatnefs of his ftrengh.’1 nd his anfwer will be unto you, it is ‘ I thati.eak in righteoufnefs, mighty to fave.’ Gain-fay; ivvho will, ‘ The pleafure of tlie Lord fliall prof-i r in his hand, he lhall fee of the travel of hisM, and be fatisfied.’1,.Now methinks I hear you faying, All that iste, we can fet our feals to itj but O, is heitlling? there is our queftiou. Willing indeed ;|| is not more able, than be is willing, What$jt all his promifes, but declarations of his freeihiingnefs ? What are all his fvveet invitations,jl to tell you that he is willing, and ye are W’el-::ne ? ‘He that thirfteth let him come, and vvho-t ver will, let him come and take of the water of1 freely.’ Ah ! what fay you to it now ? Giveoyour feal to his willingnefs alfo. Go, fay ye,sly not? Ye have it. Then come away, there isDin ore wanting, fay come ; we know he is wil-3, and we fet our feal to his willingnefs. Bute willing to receive me ? Satisfy me in that,ithen I will be right. Ah cheat! ye are takingword back again now, and lifting off yourif ye except not yourfelf, he will not except: His invitation is unto all; every one come,that thirfteth, come, he that hath no money,.’ Ifaiah Iv. 1. Now, why will ye be fo illlurfelves, as to debar yourfeives ; For he doth6 I he Saints'1 Duty it: Evil lames.not c’o it: ye may a3’ well, and as rationally faythat ’O'.t are not a body, as to fay, he debars youHis invitation is to every one. Now, afier.t to thisand then, before you except yourielf out the toftyou mu ft then not have a being, neither of fouinor body. We fay. for you to think that he ex;iccp?„ you, it is all onr- as to deny yourfelf to bthe children of Adam. Now, O come, come nigard, what aileth thee ! Come, what would yhave, that is net in Chrift ? O ! what fweet invintation ‘ come,’ we cannot tell what is in it:is a depth in it that all the angels in heaven canntfathom it; it is no lefs than Jefus Chrift, ‘ who vv;deli\iered for our oftences, and was raifed rgafor our juftification,’ fpreading forth his arms aiinviting you, he is opening up himfelf, his all-fui.ficiency and fupertranfeendant excellency, and caj:ling unto all poor needy things, come, here is »inough for you ; give in your delires, and you u^thave them fatisfied to the full. What then ha'Iye to fav to the bargain? Come, come, it is a ri>);commodity, and there is no (ticking at the prnonly receive and have, the ealieft of all tenthere is no more required at your hands. But, lye, Ha, Sir, ye go without your bounds, the;vitation in your text, is to his people, ye are.wrong. We are not fo far out, as ye trow;invitation is to his people, to * enter into tb«chambers.’ and to all, who will come and becoihis people, to ‘ enter into their chambers,’ and;this is a free market. We muft invite all to conye who are enemies, lay down your arms agaihim, and come; ye who are upholding his eneniiand complying with them in their finful courtand abominations, by paying them cefs aad locility, and by furnifhing them with meat and drii.(which is nyore than, ‘a bidding them God fpee■which the Holy Ghoft, by the mouth of John,I he Saints' hi'uty in Evil Times.# m *bids, fecond Epiitle of John, 10 verfe.) Oi\U theputting the fvvoru in God’s enemies’ hands, andcome; ye who have given bonds to the adverfary*break your ‘ covenant with hell and death,’ andC jiO j : break your fworn allegiance to the devil,and tone, and i'.vear a new allegiance to JefuaCim (r, aiid ye lliall never rue it j ye who compearbefore the ir courts and pay them fines, where byboth ye acknowledge them robbers of God, andcall your duty your fin, quit thefe courfes and comeye, who go to the curates, leave thefe perjured1 ’:nd guides.and come ; ye who go to the indulg¬ed, leave thefe traitors to God. Ye, who go tothe backfliding frlent minifters, leave thefe betray¬ers of the caui’e, and deftrters of the crofs of Cbriit,and come, leave all thefe and follow him, he isa true guide, and will be fo unto you, ye who a-ny way feek or take the enemies’ protection, leavethat and come ; come to him, and ye lhall findchambers indeed, both for fafety and delight. Allye that are llrangers to him, come, ye that are innature, come, and yc that know him, come. Wemail preach that word, come, unto you, fo long aswe are here, until ye be tt aafj lanted out of thisfpi ritual warfare; into celeltrai triumph. O Sirs,,come, come, afk what ye will, and he will giveit; O come, come.Now, it were requifite here' to Ihew you, whoit is that comes unto Chrift, who it is that comesnot; but it will came as fitly in the fecond thingwhich we have noticed in the words, and fo weproceed unto it.The fecond thing, ye know, was this, the per-fons invited, or the determination of the nvitation,‘ my people.’ Thefe are they whom he invites totheir chambers; his people, they who fubffiribe tothe terms of his covenant, which is, ‘ 1 will be‘ your God, and ye Hi all be my people they whojr8 Saints'1 Duty in Evil Eimes.make a covenant with him by lacrifice, they whorovenant with him only to be accepted through theiacniice of his Son, and they who facrfice them-felves to him, they who efpoufe him to be tlieirGod, and his quarrel and concernment to be theirs.But before we enter upon what we propofed, weproceed to the third thing in the words, to makeway for it, and fo {hail return.The third thing was this, their chambers where-into they are invited to enter; that is, the cham-, bers of the Lord's prote&ion and prefence, whatare thefe chambers do you think? Afk at Solomon,and he will tell you, Prov. xviii. x<3. ‘The name‘ of the Lord is a ftrcng tower, the righteous run* unto it and Hre fafe,’ It is Jefus Chrill that ye Jare invited unto.Do£t. 2. ‘ Thefe chambers are fafe, and they,* who are therein, need not fear wrath,’ fee for theconfirmation of this point, Ifa. xxxii. 2. ‘ A man‘ fliali be as an hiding-place from the wind, and a‘ covert from the temped, as rivers of water in a* dry place, as the fliadow of a great rock in a -‘ weary land.’There is the defcription of thefe chambers, theyare chambers of fafety, no wind can win there'in¬to thefn, no temped; can overtake them who arethere, ye are without the flood mark of the wrathof God, and they are chambers of delight; ye willnot want refrediing : they are ‘ rivers of water in‘ a dry place, the fliadow of a great rock in a weary‘ land;’ we cannot commend them unto you, forthey pafs the eloquence of angels to do it ; but en¬ter thefe, and ye fliall find more than we can tellyou ; enter, and ye will find more than you will beable to tell yourfelves : Enter, eve fay, that is theinvitation: But ye will fay, how {hall we enter?What is requifite for cur entering? What willtake us in? Anfvver, Faith, That is the thing willIhe Saints* Duty in Evil Times. , 9take you in: that is the key that opens thefe doors,the ufe of the means and the exercife of faith,the hand of duty, and the key of faith: but rakenotice, it is true favin.<r faith ; it is neither hilto-rical, temporary, nor the faith of miracles; but itis faving faith, whereby Chrift is only received and:refted upon; it is faith as an initrument appre¬hending the objeci, Chrid: It is that (I fay) which,taketh you in.But for your more clear uptaking thereof, con-fder what is recjuilite in true faving faith. Firif,A deep fight and fenfe of your loft condition, thatye are deftroyed, liable to the wrath of God, andall the curfes in the law. Secondly, A k-nfe of this,that there is nothing in you, or that ye can do,that will help you, 't is beyond all created powerto recover you. and fo, not at all feeking to eftab-lifii a felf-righteoufnefs, it is, ‘ Come unto me ye1 that labour and are heavy laden and 1 will give‘ you reit.’ Thirdly, A right fenfe of the all-fuf-ficiency that is in Jefus Chrift, and his excellencydrawing the heart out after him, as all the defireof the foul, and fo clofing with him. Therefore,ye who remain fenfelefs of your loft condition,have a care; ye are not yet in thefe chambers.But that it may be made clear unto you, confi-der moreover, if ye would enter into thefe cham¬bers: Firft, Ye muft clofe with Chrift alone, theremuft nothing have a (hare in the meritorious caufsin bringing you there, but himfelf only; ye muftnot lay pait of the weight upon him, and part up¬on yoarfelves and your duties: No, no, he mufteither have it all on his back, or eife he will havenone of it, therefore take heed to yourfelves. Se¬condly, You muft clofe with full Chiift, as Pro¬phet, Pried and King; as a Prophet to teach youhis will; he muft be your fchool-mafter; as Prieft,thro’ whofe facrifice only, the Father muft acceptso Saints* Duty in Evil Times*yon, and who continually makes interceffion at hisright hand-tor you ; and as King to fway a feeptrein your fouls to rule you according to his own law,and to call down, and to catl out every thing ex- (alting itfelf againll his kingdom within yeu.O take heed to this, ye who regard not his will,ye who give him not a throne in your hearts; with¬out this ye cannot * enter into thefc chambersand ailnre yourfelves, if he were reigning in you,ye would care more, and contend more for hiskingdom without you, and in the world. Takeheed to this, ye who care not tho’ a tyrant poffefshis throne, and as it were, fpoil him of his prince¬ly robes; take heed to this, ye who hand, not tohold down this kingdom, by upholding his enemies.Thirdly, Ye mull (if ye would enter into thefechambers) dole with all the inconveniences thatfollow him, his crofs mud be taken up, Luke ix. 123, 24. ‘ If any man will come after me, let him* deny himfelf, and take up his crci's daily, and* follow me. For whofoever will fave his life (hall* lofe it: But whofoever will lofe his life for my* fake, the fame (hall fave it.’ Whatever he callsyou unto mull be embraced : your heart mull fub-feribe to the reafonablenefs and defirablenefs of ^every one of thefe inconveniences, but let us changetheir names and call them conveniences and Chrif- \tian advantages, and fo we may ; for they are offpecial good ufe «o Chriflians ; thefe are a part of 1the difeipline of Chrift’s School, and feme fay thisis David’s meaning, Pfnlm cxvi. 13. where he fays 3* I will take the cup of falvarion.’ That is, as theyfay, the cup of affliction, as that whereby the Lordworks the falvation of his people; and fo indeedthe cup of affliction maybe called the cup of falva-/ 'jtion. Now that is the way you mull enter.Us'i. O come awav, let us hear what ye fay toit. Are ye willing to enter this way ? Think upon’The Saints' Duty in Evil Times. ir11 This is the way you nauft enter, and in ourj ng of it, we may tremble to think, upon thisI tration, who will not clofe with thefe (To cal-j i inconveniences. We have no fldll of peo-[ ; clofmg with Chrift, who will not clofe withe. But Oh, What fay ye unto us ? What isMr reply ? Is it not this, * That neither death nort -, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers,Mr things prefer^ nor things to come, nor height,! r depth, nor any other creature, lhall be ablec Ifeparate us from the love of God, which is inHrift Jefus our Lord.’ Is this your faying, thenj ie away, t^ke him, take on his yoke, ‘ Tor his;ke is eafy and his burden ligdit.’• Oj#—  — ■FOLLOWS THE AfUtitNOONS E v R M O N.Isa. xxvi. 20. Come my People, \£c.' H I S is the way that folk undo themfelves,and forfake their own mercies tliat whichI pt to chafe them to God, chafes them out from. All hypocritical convictions only put them1 further away from the phyfician : fo it is withn.ement, which fhould put folk to their duties,if are thereby put from it. When the LordrfWhes his glittering fword of juftice, then it is'drive his own children into his own hand,iPrna my people, &oc.’ Ye know the hft occn->£ how we divided thefe words ; ye know alio,that before vve left the firft head, we fud, itId be requ’fite to fhow' unto you, who it is thates to Chrilf, and wrho it is that coines not: Butold you, that it would come more fitly in thend Head : yet to make way for it, v.ie proceedjvard unto the third thing in the words. Andhaving touched that a little, we retura again12Tic Saints'' Duty in Evil Times.rs we told you, we propofed to do, and fliall.the Lord will enable) open the Second Head, fther declaring who are his people ; to wit.Thefe, as we were faying, who have made avenant with him by facrifice, to be accepted o;thro’ the facrifice of his Son, and who facrificiway themfeives unto him. In a word, it is tbwho are righteous, and who live rigbteoufly. T!who are righteous, are thefe wno have fled >*|Chrift for his righteoufnefs, and have gotten tlfelves clothed therewith. But that je maymore clearly take up, who thefe are that cometo Chrift ; before we give you fome marks of tiand fome rules how to apply thefe marks, wefirft declare who it is that come not.Firft, Thefe come.not unto Chiift, who cjnot from all fin. Trek, xviii. 2T. * But if the w* ed will turn from all fins that he hath comm* and keep all my ftatutes, and do that which!* lawful and right, he (ball furely live, he fliall* die.’ Ye fee the condition, it is if ye willfrom all fin, both omiffion and commifiion ; fiall fin, unto all duty; leaving all fin, and taking;all Chi iftian duty. Therefore remember, if yetertain any one idol that will keep Chrift out. 1ny fay of fome idol-fin, that they do not quit,.Lot faid of Zoar, ‘ It is a little one, therefore* me brook it,’ but remember what David fays,‘ I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will‘ hear me,’ Pfal. Ixvi. 18. Remember this andllroy not yourfelves, ye who follow' not-grofs fwjing, drinking or Whoring, and the like, yet clunto your pretty mincht-oaths, and your idledifcoutfe, and your liglit co ivet fation. Oreher this, ye who have any piedominate, whofelye clap ; your right-hand and your right-eyemult be cut off, and plucked out, before yeenter into the kingdom of heaven : I fay, if yThe Saints1 Duty in Evil Times. 13tertain any predominate, it fpeaks out t1>is, Thatye would as well entertain all fins, if your inclina¬tions were as bent upon them, and that ye do notleave them, as therefore hateful to God, but only,as they are not fo delightfonie or hurtful unto you.G! take heed, except ye repent and amend, ‘ye* lhall all likewife perifti.’ Remember this ye mo¬ral civilians, who are not chargeable with grofsprofanity in your private walk, yet have your handsimbrued in blood, and have them defiled with pub¬lic land fins, which procure land judgements : Yetake a liberty to pay cefs, and fines, and tiends toBaal’s priefts, and do many other things to ilrength-en the enemies of our Lord, and condemn hiscaufe, I fay take heed to yourfelves ; ‘ except ye‘ repent and amend, ye (hall all likewife perilh.’Remember this, ye who turn not to make up allChriftian duties with you; ye think it enough, yebabble over two or three words at night and atmorn to yourfelves, tho’ you fet not up the wcr-Ihip of God in your families, and if you do that,ye think that enough tho’ you neither put to yourhand to aft with the Lord, nor fympathize withhis afflifted people, nor imbody yourfelves in fo-ciety with them, to cry for all the abominations ofthe land. O take heed, ‘ except you repent and‘ amend, ye ill all all likewife perifii.’Secondly, Thefe come not unto G ii ift, who, tho’they may come a great length, not to be charge¬able by man, neither with omiflion or commifiion,yet reft, there ; all that will not take them to heav¬en. Paul, before his converfion, he reports of him-felf, Phil. iii. 6. ‘ was touching the righteoufnefs,‘ which is in the law blamelefs.’ He was as trim alegalift as the bed of 3rou : but mark what he fay'sol hirnfelf in the 7, 8, and 9 ve.fes, ‘ Rut what‘ tilings were gain to me; thofe I counted lofs for* Chrilt, yea, doubtlefs, and I count all things but14 7^ Saints* Duty In "Evil Times.* lofs, for the excellency of the knowledge of Chrtft4 Jefus my Lord, for whom I have fuffered the lofs* of all things, and do count them but dung, that* I may win Chrift, and be found in him, not hav-* ing mine own righteoufnefs, which is of the law,4 but that which is thro’ the faith of Chrifl, the* righteoufnefs which is of God by faith.’ There isthat which ye muft only reft on, aud no where elfe,but upon tiie complete and inherent righteoufnefsof Jefus Chrift; therefore take heed how ye build.Thirdly, Thefecome not unto Jefus Chrift, whofeed themfelves up in that deluding fancy, thatthey have not fo much need of him, as others have,by reafon of their thinking their fins but little finsO, fayibme, I am not like the profane and wick¬ed : what then need I fear? O poor fool, mindwhat the apoftle tells thee. Gal. iii. to. ‘ For ini fuch a cafe, thou art under the law, aiid as ma-‘ ny as are of the works of the law, are under the* curfe, for it is written, cryfed is every one that* continueth not in all thingswhich are written in4 the law, to do them.’ A pen-knife can take a-way the life as well as a broad-fword: Indeed, Ithink the cafe of the wicked and profane is morehopeful than thy cafe, bccaufe they will be foonergotten convinced of the neceffity of repentanaethan thou wilt.Fourthly, Tlr fe come not unto Chrift, who, be-caufe they meet with.favourable difpenfations, andgreat proofs oftheLord’s general providences, there¬upon conclude all is well with them. Think uponwhat David fays, Pfalm xvii. 14. 4 From men4 which are thy hand, O Lord, from men of the4 World, which have their portions in this life, and _4 whofe belly thou filled with thy hid treal'ure:4 they are full of children, and leave the reft of4 their fubftance to their babes.’ ‘ None knoweth4 love or hatred by all that is before him,’ Eccl. xi.*rhe Saints Duty in Evil Times. x 5Fifthly, Thefe come not to ChriaJ, who think.1 is right with them becaufe they are not chal-;nged in their confciences. O mad fools, whofe.earts arefealed with obduration, the faddeft placei all the fcriptures holds forth your cafe, Hof. iv.7. ‘ Ephraim is joined to his idols : Let him a-lone.’ When ye drop into hell, the lire thereof'ill foon burn up that thick Ikin that is grown up-n your confciences.1 Sixthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who reft:pon their Apprehended forrow for tin. O layney, I am not fuch a fool as to think all is well,ecaufe I want challenges, but becaufe I haveaem: Remember Efau, remember Judas, youruilding upon your forrows and tears, is like a manhat builds upon a flow-mofs.I' Seventhly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, whoall off the common road of fin into duty, and refthere : Mind what our Lord fays of the conceitydharifee, Luke xviii. 11, 12, 13, and 14. Thatiho’ he was not an extortioner, unjuft, nor an a-lulterer and faffed twice a week, and paid tithessf all that he had pofleffed, yet he went not down:o his houfe fo juftified as the poor publican did ;yet, ye will fay, I am far from fwearing,’drinking,See. and have betaken myfelf to the fociety of thepeople of God ; and I read and pray, &c. There¬fore all is well. O poor fool, thy cafe is now woife.‘than ever. O we tremble to think up»u the mul¬titude that pray themfelves into hell ; This is Da-..vid indeed, who kills his ten thoufands. Whatjfhall I liken you to? Yd are like a man that dig-:geth deep down, and caffs out the old earth, bringsinew earth of his own mould, but goes not thelength of the rock.Eighthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift who evenego that length, as to atfent to the fpiritual meati-{(ing of the law, and reft there. This is much in-*iC The Saints* Duty in Evil Times'.deed; this is a great length, yea a greater lengtfthan the mod part of you, who are hearing me thitday, have come unto, and yet they are far from th«kingdom of heaven. Obferve that paffage. Marlsxii. 32, 33. Where a fcribe anfwered our Lordand laid, ‘ To love the Lord with all the heart* and with all the underftanding, and with all thej!* foul, and with all the llrength, and to love hi‘ neighbour as himfelf, is more than whole biunt*‘ offerings and faorifices.’ To whom our Lord re-l,plies, 34, verfe, e Thou art not far from the king* dom of God.’Ninthly, Thefe come not unto Jefus Chrift. whhave common gifts, and reft there. O, fay ye, tfind a faculty -of prayer, l want not words enoughand get them bravely fet upon the pins, and I havegreat knowledge of the fcriptures, and I am ftraightand not biafl’ed in my judgement; and what needfuch a man (as I) fear? O deluded foul, confiderwhat Paul fays, 1 Cor. xiii. 2. ‘Though I have the‘ gift of prophecy, and underftand all myftenes,‘ and all knowledge, and though I have all faith,* fo that I could remove mountains, and have not* charity, I am nothing.’ No doubt, Judas hadmuch of this ; God will give gifts unto ptrfons,for the behoof and advantage of others ;'but whenhe gives grace, it is ay for their own advantage;yea, the devil is better gifted, and hath more know¬ledge than all of you have.Tenthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who fuf-fer many things materially for the truth, and havefome feeming fruits thereof, and reft tliere ; do notthink that your fuffeting your goods to be fpoiled,and yourfelves caft out of your habitation befoieye comply with the enemy, is a ground from whichye may conclude all to be right: Nay, I tell you,as the Apoftle fays, 1 Corj^iii. Though ye fliouldbeftovv all your goads to feed the poor, ‘ though IThe Saints' Duty in Evil Timts. 17give my body to be burned, and have not chari-‘ ty, it profits me nothingYea, the tame apoftlej^Fuppofeth, Gal. iii. 4. That there may be muchi Jioffering in-vain. ‘ Have ye fuffered fo many things‘ in vain ? If it be in vain.’ There are many ofyou that are fullering this clay materially for Chrift;omaterially, we fay, and not formally; for hypo-i jerites never win to fincerity in their doings andfufferings, nor do to them as to God ; and yet yeiiwill get hell to fuffer in throughout all eternity;tiyea, a man when his credit is ftraitly engaged, hei |nip.y g i ve his life for the caufe, and yet get hell forhis reward.Eleventhly, Thefe come not unto Chrifl, who1 [have only a hiftotical and tempoiary faith, inlteadiof a faving faith, though ye fhould believe all the1 (truths in the Bible, yet that will not avail you, thedevils believe and tremble; yea,'tho’ you Ihculdgive your general afl’ent to the way of falvation by!:! Chrilt, yet unlefs you receive and embrace him, andreft upon him, all will be for nought: Look thecafe of this people; Ifa. xlviii. 2. ‘ Who call them-* felves of the holy city, and ftay themfelves upon4 the God of Ifrael;’ but what fays the Lord ofthem ? ‘Yet not in truth nor in rigbteoufncfs Otake heed what ye are d-ftng, and do not deceiveyourfelves, for ye may ^ : this length, as to beconvinced, that it is good to come unto Ghrift, andthink ye have done it, being blinded by your pride,and may feme way comfort yourfelves, as if y haddone it, in this your prefumptuous dream, ai d yetj really, never have done it: never really, have beenbrought to deny your own righteoufnefs, and toreceive Chrift, relying only upon him for attain¬ing life through his righteoufnefs and fatisfaflion.Twelfthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, whohave only the common operation of the Spirit up¬on the affedlion within, and refling there, conclude18 'The Saints' Duty in Evil Ti.ri'S.that all is well with them. We have already fpok*en of the danger of reding upon apprehended for-,row for fin, fo theie may be much alio of the flame?of joy, tendernefs and heait-meltings, which by*,,pocrites may have at fornetimes by another. CorJliidtr thefe who were John’s hearci. , John v. 35‘ Who for a feafon rejoiced in his light.’ O ! be¬ware of gofpel hypoent^, take not flaflics for con- 'verfion. If it could be determined how great alength hypocrites may tome, we think it would fill' 1here. O what ihall we fay of it! do what theywill, and come as great a length as they can, theyijnever come unto Chrifl, who are not fully denied,to '.hemfelves, and pofitively only reft upon JefusChriit, for jultification and fanflificat on. Truefaith hath tw'o'voices. Firft, It calls and cries, 0.fmher, lean not to hyfelf, reft not tlierc. becondly,O fmner, reft on Jeftis Chrift and lean m.to hitnfeif.Usk. Now O believers, fesrcli and try your-felvcs, fet abnut it earnelily, this is your work,and it wil not be d'ne ilumbering and fleepingaThere are many of you here this day, who are notcome the length ot fome of thefe iteps, which weh.ive named t yet, ye may come through them allevery one, and ii je go not farther, ye will neverwin to Cbriil : And in his name 1 tell you, ‘ Ex-‘ cept your righteouf. exceed the nghteeufnefs‘ of the Scnbes and Pharif es, ye cannot enter m-4 to the kingdom of heaven.’Ye know, we ga\e you fome h'nts of thefe whoare the Lord’s people, viz. Thefe who have ‘come,* unto Chrift,’ and are made righteous, and Jiverighteously : and fot the more clearing of it, we,,now declare who thefe are, who have come untohim, by giving feme marks and evidences, how thefame may be known. We are not Ipeaking of,* being in Chrift,’ as a creature by creation andprefervation, nor as a member externally, but as a.The Saints'1 Duty in Evil Times. 19member internally and effectually* but ye will by,how is that? yln^. By the llriCt union and com¬munion betwixt Chriit and the Chniiiays, whichis from the fti iClnefs of the bond; to wit. Hisw ord and Spirit on his part, and faith and love ontheir part. Now we lay, how w ill that be known?Vvell, we will grie you thefe marks; thereffjre trywourfclves. For,Firit, If ye be come to Chrift, then ye will findin you, a hatred of all fin naturally, and a defireto .11 goed, though oft«n ye may fail in the pir-fcimence, Rom. vii. 15. Paul ffys, ‘That which‘ I dp, 1 allow not, for what I would,, that i do-‘ not, but what I hate that 1 do.’ 1 John in. 6.1 VVhofoevtr abideth in him firtneth not;’ to wit,Firfi, Purpofi dly, S ci ndly% W'ibingly, t hirdly.Affectionately, Fourthly, not unto death : For theLords people have, (i._j Grief, (2.') Care to recov¬er, (3.) Fear to fin. O ! can ye run on in fin,without returning and care of repentance ; if itbe fo ye are not in this living root.Secondiy, If ye be come unto Chrifi, then yewill find this in you, a right and high eltCem ofthe Lord’s mercy, he and his falvation will bf onlyprecious in your eyes, ‘ Bleffed is he whofe tranf-‘ grefiion is forgiven, whofe fin is covered,’ Rial,sxxii. 1. That will be your thoughts.Thirdly, If ye be come unto Chnfl:, ye will findthis in you, a love unto the wav of f:oliriefs, as wellas happinefs itfelf: Yea, your hemt will be lodrawm after that noble device of falvation, feeingall the glorious attribute- of God fo (hining there¬in, that ye would in no ways be content to go toheaven another wayy than that glorious way, tho’it could be had, and this is all the Lord requiresof you, only a pleafing the device. This is thebrazen ferpent, which you mull look unto for heal¬ing. O come away./2 3 The Saints' Duty in Evil Times.Fourthly, If ye be come unto Chrill, then ye willfind this in you, an adting upon God as he acts up¬on yen; hath he called you? then ye will call uponhi jo-}-hath he juftiired yoti? then ye will jwftify him.Fifthly, If ye be come unto Chrili, then ye willfind this in you, a felf-denial, and a daily takingup of the crofs, againft your own inclinations, thedo&rine and pradtice of mortification, and a cut-ting yourfelf lliort of carnal delights will be defiredby you.Sixthly, If ye. be come unto Cbrift, then ye willbe fubjeft unto him willingly, and yield fweetlyunto the fwaying of his feeptre in your foul.Seventhly. If ye be come Unto tihrifi, then ye arefufcjcdt unto him univerfally in all h:s cornaiands.Eighthly, If ye be come unto Chriit, then ye arefubjedt unto him fincerely in all things, feeking hisglory.Ninthly, If ye be come unto Chrifl, then ye arefubjedl unto him conltantly, obeying him withoutwearying.Tenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift then biswoid abideth in you, I John ii. 12. If that whichye have heard from the beginning remain in you,ye (hall continue in the Son and in the Father, itmult abide in you, fo as your mind underilauds it,your heartsaffedl it. O how have that which ye haveread and heard, remain' d? Few, few, in Chrifl..Eleventhl_v, If ye be come unto Chrift, ye w illfind his Spirit, ‘leading you unto all truth.’ Johnxvi. i 7. Teaching thee and lead ng thee unto, andconfirming thee in duty ; but do not miftake, wemean no enthufialtic ipirit, but bis word and Spiritwhich he hath enjoined, Ifa. lix. 21. ‘My Spirit‘ which is upon thee, and my words which I have* put in thy mouth, fliall not depai't,’ &c.Twelti'ly, If ye be come unto Ghriit, then yswill find his Spirit convincing you of fin.The Saints' Duty in Evil 'Times. 21Thirteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrifl, then1 ye will find his Spirit' ruling and commanding you,i calling down all things exalted again!! Chrill’s1 kingdom.Fourteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, thenye will Slid his Spirit in you by fupplication, lead-| ing unto fenfe of fin, and apprehenfion of the ne-;| ceffity of mercy, which make fervency, letting’the■ foul fee God only appealed in Chrift, and fealethi;l the truth of God’s promifes and records.Fifteenthly, If ye become unto Chrift, then ye. i will find faith in yop, that will be your day in allh eftates, aflions, temptations and affeflions : Thisi i is hard to find out, yet it may be found out, if yeI have a defire for it, ye may have it.Sixteentnly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye11 will find an admirable change in you, a new SpiritH without gu’Je, a new judgement, ne w defires, newt: affedlions, love, hatred, forro w, joy, new fnifes,IJ eyes, fmelling, ears, tafte, feeling. Use; Now find5:|| ye thefe, or any of tliefe marks really in you, thenti;i doubt no more, nifb dieve no more, all is fure. yet i are come unto Chrift, and feeing ye are come un-M to him, prefs ay for more and more of his liken jfs,SI for a progrefs in fan£!>fication. Remember, t Johnlii ii. 6. ‘ He that faith he abideth in him, ought bim-* ‘ felf alfo to walk even as he walked.’ And this leads0 us unto the third thing in the opening up of thisH point, to wit. To declare who are his people; they,:a as we were faying, who are righteous, and liverighteoufly. Now thefe who are righteous, arethefe who have fled unto Chrift, and they indeedlive righteoufly. Yet to make it more clear, wefhall in Short tell you, who they are who live righ¬teoufly. Thefe, to ivit, in a word, ‘ Who walk* as he walked.’ Omnia nos Chrijli vytn docere potcfl:That is, The life of Chrift can teach us all things,Firft they live righteoufly, beginning all things2 2 The Saints' Duty in Evil Times.with God, referrinT all things to God. Secondly,They do all things by the warrant of his word,contemning their own wills, that they might dothe Lord’s: e.Not my will,but thy will be done,’they null lofe their life, before they lofe their o-bedience. Thirdly, they walk holily, ‘ Be ye ho-* ly as I am holy,’ John iii. 3. ‘ Every man, that‘ hath this hope in him, purifkth himfelf even as1 he is pure.’ Fourthly, They walk fruitfully, theygo about doing good ; O fad ! not only the unfruit¬ful walking of this generation, hut even the ftiim-bling that they are. Fifthly, They walk juftly, notwronging any ; Thtfe are they who live righteouf-ly, who walk fo as Ghriit walked: O ! how fewrighteous livers are amongfl you, and tbefe onlyare his people, righteous perfons, righteous livers,and it is thefe whom the Lord hath chambers for.Now Sixthly, We proceed to the rales how toapply thefe evidences. Firll, Tho’yon find themnot all, yet if ye find one or more of them really,then comfort yourfelves. Secondly, If yon find notwhat formerly ye have found, labour more to re¬new the fame, than to feek a fight of the old..Thirdly, Do not try yourfelves in the hour of temp¬tation. Fourthly, When ye find r^irks and evi¬dences, do not redt upon them, for though ye havethem, they may foon be gone. Fifthly, LXo notpurfue fo much to fatisfy your fenfe for the pre-fent, as to have a folid well-grounded affuranee forthe time to come. Sixthly, Be not fo defirous toknow what you are, as what ye fhould do. Spendnot your time in queftioning your flate, as ye do,but ufe the means of real union and communionwith Chrifl: This is the fliorteft and fureft way.Seventhly, Judge not yourfelves by the meafure ofyour graces, but by the fincerity of them. Eighth¬ly, Compare not yourfelves too much to the faints,but judge yourfelves by the woid.23The Saints' Duty hi Evil Ti’vcs.i 'Ninthly, When there is a ferious wnSjftling a-t imit corruption, tho* not meeting until any fen-ple victor1.', yet cart not away your hope. PaulUs you, Rom. vii. ‘ How far a child of God may|: enflaved by a body of fin.’!Tenthly, Remember ye have to do with God incovenant of grace. Now, what more fhall weiy ? Murt we end as we began ! Oh ! come a-. iy, come away to Chrirt, this Prince of delightsime, and enter into thsfe chambers. Motive,rrt, Come away and enter, then your conditionill be honourable with Gbrirt. Secondly, Com-i rtable. All your debts are paid. Thirdly, Rich.: 11 that Chrift hath, grace and goodnefs is all thine,ipurthly, Fruitful. He purgeth his branches,'ifthly. Safe. He takes all your quarrels upon, jm, your head will ay be above the water. Sixth-, It is the only ftate of perfedlion, whicliSs in, :m, and derived to us- Seventhly, Then all the• i omifes are yours. Eighthly. It is a fare ftatc, inas life ye have itrength againit temptations; ‘My(trace is fufficierit for vou.’ Ninthly, In death,||rurance. They that deep in Chrirt, periih not.j|ent!ily, In the day of judgement, boldpefs : Otome atyay, the chambers are every way pleafant,hhd every ’way fafe, come away, the indignat onbull not overtake you.I The Lord is coming down with an univerfal de-sjige of wrath upon the generality : Come away,<rd ye rtiall be hid. Oh ! he is willing, he is wii-ng, he would not have fent this meilage to youlis day, if he had not been willing : And now,ben we are keeping a raft-day'unto'the Lord, whoath given you this call, pray that he would helpu .rightly to improve it ; I fay, O improve itghtly, by your anfwermg of it.But ye will fay, how (hall we improve it? Anf.irft, Improve it, by feeing that it is only of the24 The Saints' Duty in Evil Times.Lord’s free mercy, that he h;.:h given if.xxxvi. 22. ‘ I do not this for your fake, O‘ of Ifrael, but for mine holy name’s fake.’Secondly, Improve it, by being thereby the morftirred up to your duty, Pfalm cxvi. ‘ Becaufe 1|‘ hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore "v-ili* call uponlnm as long as I live.’ Hath he hear |your prayers in this ? then be more in prayer, am |be more Angle in prayer, and all other duties thaever heretofore.Thirdly, Improve it, by loving the Lord himfelf, who hath granted you it, Pfal. cxvi. ‘ I lov‘the Lord, becaufe he hath heard my voice adj‘ fupplication.’Fourthly, Improve it, by feparating yourfelvejmore from the abominations of the time, by mak|ing clean hearts and clean hands, Pfalm vi. 3. * Dtf‘ part from me ye workers of iniquity, the Lorj‘ hath heard the voice of my fupplicition.’Fifthly, Improve it, by having a high and btlcoming elteem of the ordinance, yet keeping it ilits own room, and not refling upon it, but feekinjunto the Lord himfelf, Amos v. 4. ' Seek ye ml‘ and ye (hall live, but feck not to Bethel.’Sixthly, Improve it, by anfwering his call thercl:in, and let not the Lord have it to fay of you, thsl:after long and many refufals, ‘ Yet I came anlj* ftretched forth my wings, and would have gsl* thered you, as a hen gathereth her chickens, bill* ye would not.’ O ! let him not have that to fa;|* Come away, come away, enter into your charajj‘ bers, and fhut your door^ about you, and hie]* yourfelveo as it were for a little moment, untft‘ the indignation be over-paft.’FINIS.GLASGOW,Printed by J, St M. Robertso-n, [No, iS.] Salxmarki:i8aS.