ilE SCRAP ROOK is not restricted to the Months of one year, butns a reference to the Months genet ally ; and beside noticing incidentscustoms peculiar to the Months, it comprises instructive atld entertain-g Pieces, well suited to exeite in youth a relish for useful reading.THEMonthly Scrap Kook,FOH AUGUST.Before the ripen’d field the reapers stand,In fair array • each by the lass he loves.To bear the rougher part, and mitigateBy nameless gentle Offices her toil. Thornton/CONTENTS.An Old Bachelor's Soliloquy,..  v 2Elephant Hunting,   3Lammas Towers in JlidwLothiai],..,    7Singular Adventure in the American War, 11Church of Scotland,   ... 17Variety of Short Scraps,  , 22Garden Work in August, , —-VDUNFERMLINEPUBLISHED BY JOHNPrice One PemMILLEkL LIBR4^ OF SCOTLANDAN OLD liACljf'E'LOR’S SOLILOQUr.Tis night;—but ah ! I cannot rest1 hough all is calm and silent round me :At eve, sad thoughts oppress my breast;At mom, the ills of life confound me.Where now youth’s prospects, joyous, gay ?Where now the hopes I fondly cherished ?Alas ! they all have passed away 1Like snow flattcs on the stieam they’ve perishediHow lone am I !-nought, nought I hear,Except the clock that clicks beside me ;No friend have I:—no one is nearTo shed a tear whate'er betide me.The moon illumes the dreary night,And gilds the ocean’s heaving bosom1;But nought can give my heart delight ;I’m like a pale and withered blossom.Long have I trode life's weary stage,And felt its countless pains and sorrows ;And now the icy hand of ageHas spread along my brow its furrows,A few more cares and trickling tears,And nought on earth my soul shall cumberA few more weary circling years,And in the grave I’ll softly slumber !No loving wife shall o’er me sigh :No tender child shall roses gatherTo deck my grave, or, weeping, cry,Alas ! alas ! ray honoured father !How dull his life, how sad his fate,Who has no faithful wife to love him,When he is sick on him to wait,Or, when he dies, to sigh above him !He’s like a solitary tree,■Whose leaves the wintry tempest scatters !A lonely bark upon the sea,That sinks, engulphed, amid the waters fTHE-MONTHLY SCRAP BOOK*elephant hunting.?^fE,re,ate/ th« Abyssinian mode of destroyingthe elephant from his own observation, durinJ hisreturn from Gondah, and while sojourning withAyU> Confn. His narrative is in these words..I hough we were all happy to our wish in thisenchanted mountain, the active spirit of AytoConfu could not rest. He was come to hunt theelephant, and hunt him he would. All those thatuiKierstood any thing of this exercise had assem¬bled from a great distance, to meet Ayto Confu atIcherkm. He and Engeadan, from the momentthey ai rived, had been overlooking from the orec.p.ce their servants training and managing theirhorses in the market-place below. Great bunchesof the finest canes had been brought from Kawraor javehns ; and the whole house was employedfitting heads to them m the most advantageousmanner, for my part, though I should^havebeen very well contented to have remained whereI was yet the preparations for sport of so nobleto join my api‘'>a’ ™ *sir„usOn the 6th, an hour before day, after a heart,neakfast, we mounted on horse-back, to the num-But °tf thlrty’, bel0Ugil1^ t0 Ayt0 ConfuBut there was another body, both of horse and, whlch niade hunting the elephant their par-4THE MONTHLYtieular businoss. rIbese men dwell constantly inthe woods, and know very hfLe of tlie use of ,bread, living entirely upon the flesh of the beaststhey kill, chiefly that of the elephant or rhinoceros.They are exceedingly thin, light, and agile, bothon horseback and toot; are very swarthy, thoughfew of them black ; none of them woolly-headed, ,and all of them have European features, Ihey 'are called Agageei\ a name of their profession, not*'of their nation, which conies from the word agw, ,and signifies to-lough or hamstring with a sharp-weapon. More properly it means the cutting ofthe tendon of the heel, and is a characteristic ofthe manner in which they kill the elephant, which-1is shortly as follow s :Tw o men, absolutely naked, without any rag of|covering at all about them, get on horseback ; thisprecaution is for fear of being laid hold o; by thetrees or hushes in making their escape from a very)SCRAP BOOK. 5As soon as the elephant is found feeding, thei horseman rides before him as near his face as pos-isible ; or, it he flies, crosses him in all directions,icrying out, “ I am such a man and such a man ;this is my horse that has such a name; I killediyour father in such a place, and your grandfatherin such another place ; and I am now come tokill you ; you are but an ass in comparison ofthem. This nonsense he verily believes the ele¬phant understands, who, chafed and angry at hear¬ting the noise immediately before him, seeks tojseize him with his trunk, or proboscis ; and, in¬tent upon this, follows the horse everywhere, tur¬ning and turning round with him, neglectful ofI making his escape by running straight forward,in which consists his only safety. After havingmade him turn once or twice in pursuit of the horse,Ithe horseman rides close up alongside of him, anddi ops his companion just behind on the off side ;and while he engages the elephant’s attention uponIthe horse, the footman behind gives him a drawniStroke just above the heel, or what in man is calledthe tendon of Achilles. This is the critical mo¬ment ; the horseman immediately wheels round,takes his companion up behind him, and rides oftfull speed after the rest of the herd, if they havestarted more than one ; and sometimes an expert.agageer will kill three out of one herd. If thesword is goo<l, and the man not afraid, the tendonis commonly entirely separated ; and if it is notcut through, it is generally so far divided, that theanimal, with the stress he puts upon it, breaks the■remaining part asunder.. In either case, he re-6THE MONTHLYmains incapable of advancing a step, till the horse- |man’s return, or his companions coming up piercehim through with javelins and lances: he thenfalls to the ground, and expires with loss of blood.The agageer nearest me presently lamed his ele¬phant, and left him standing. Ayto Engedan, tAyto Confu, Ouebra Mariam, and several others, ,fixed their spears in the other before the agageer hadcut his tendons. My agageer, however, having |wounded the first elephant, failed in the pursuit ofthe second ; and being close upon him at the en¬trance of the wood, he received a violent blow fromthe branch of a tree which the elephant had bent <by his weight, and, after passing, allowed it to re-rplace itself; when it knocked down both the riders,and very much hurt the horse. 1 his, indeed, isjithe great danger in elephant-hunting ; for. some oft]the trees, that are dry and short, break by the vio¬lent pressure of so immense a body moving so ra- ipidly, and fall upon the pursuers, or across the) £roads. But the greatest number of these trees?)being of a succulent quality, they bend without,breaking, and return quickly to the former position,riwhen they strike both horse and man so violently,;that they often beat them to pieces. Dexterous too'ias the riders are, the elephant sometimes reachesthem with his trunk, with which he dashes the ihorse against the ground, and then sets his feetr jupon him, till he tears him limb from limb with his? cproboscis; a great many hunters die this wayBesides this, the soil at this time of the year is split* <into deep chasms, or cavities, by the heat of the sun, sothat nothing can be more dangerous than the riding,: (SCRAP BOOK. 7The elephant once slain, they cut the whole ofthe flesh oft his bones into thongs, like the reins ofn nulle, and hang these like festoons upon thetranches of trees, till they become perfectly drywithout salt ; and then they lay them up for theirprovisions in the season of the rains.Lammas Towers in Mid-Lothian.1 here was a Lammas festival, which prevailedin the Lothians from very early times among theyoung persons employed during summer in tendingthe herds at pasture. The usage is remarkable.. aPPeais that the herdsmen within a certaindistrict, towards the beginning of summer, asso¬ciated themselves into bands, sometimes to thenumber of a hundred or more. Each of thesecommunities agreed to build a tower in some con¬spicuous place, near the centre of their district,which was to serve as the place of their rendezvousen Lammas day. I he tower was usually built ofsods ; for the most part square, about four feet indiameter at the botom, and tapering to a point atthe top, which was seldom above seven or eighteet from the ground. In building it, a hole waseft m the centre for admitting a flag-staff', onWhich to display their colours. The tower wasusually begun to be built about a month before-Lammas, and was carried up slowly by successiveadditions from time to time, being seldom entirelycompleted till a few days before Lammas ; thoughit was always thought that those who completedheirs soonest, and kept it standing the longesttime before Lammas, behaved in the most gallant8 THE MONTHLYmamier, atid acqltirtd n ost hotimir by iIumv coudoo.t.From the moihent the foundation of the towerwas laid, it became an object of care and attentionto the whole community ; for it was reckoned adisgrace to suller it to be defaced ; so that theyresisted, with all their power, any attempts thatshould be made to demolish it, either by force orfraud ; and, as the honour that was acquired bythe demolition of a tower, if effected by those be¬longing to another, was in proportion to the dis¬grace of suffering it to be demolished, each partyendeavoured to circumvent the other as much aspossible, and laid plans to steal upon tbe tower un¬perceived, in the night time, and level it with theground. Great was the honour that such a suc¬cessful exploit conveyed to the undertakers; and,though the tower was easily rebuilt, and was soonput into its former state, yet the news was quick¬ly spread by the successful adventurers, throughthe whole district, which filled it with shouts ofjoy and exultation, while their unfortunate neigh¬bours were covered with shame. To ward oti thisdisgrace, a constant nightly guard was kept ateach tovveiv which was made stronger and stron¬ger, as the tower advanced ; so that frequentnightly skirmishes ensued at these attacks, but!were seldom of much consequence, as the assailants,seldom came in force to make an attack in thisway, but merely to succeed by surprise; as soon,therefore, as.they saw they were discovered, theymade off in the best manner they could.To give the alarm on these, and other occasions,every person was armed with a “ tooting horn ;that is, a horn pet forated in the small end, throughvvVeh wind can be forcibly blown from the mouth,^o as to occasion a loud sound ; and, as every one! wished to acquire as great dexterity as possible inthe use of tlte <4 tooting horn,,, they practisedupon it during the summer, while keeping theirbeasts ; and towards Lammas they were so in¬cessantly employed at this business, answering to,i and vying with each other, that the whole countiyrang continually with the sounds.; and it must nodoubt have appeared to be a very harsh and un-i accountable noise to a stranger who was thenpassing through it.As the great day of Lammas approached, each* community chose one from among themselves fortheir captain, and they prepared a stand of coloursto be ready to be tlien displayed. For this pur¬pose, they usually borrowed a fine table napkin ofthe largest size, from some of the farmers’ wivesi within the district ; and, to ornament it, they bor¬rowed ribbons, which they tacked upon the napkinin such fashion as best suited their fancy. Thingsbeing thus prepared, they marched forth early inthe morning on Lammas day, dressed in their bestapparel, each armed with a stout cudgel, and, re-pairing to their tower, there displayed their coloursin triumph j blowing horns, and making merry inthe best manner they could. About nine o’clockthey sat down upon the green ; ainl each takingfrom his {>ocket, bread and cheese, or other pro¬visions, made a hearty breakfast, drinking purewater from a well, which they always took careshould be near the scene of banquet..1 V7ififc MONTHLYIn the mean time, scouts were sent out towardsevery quarter, to bring them notice if any hostileparty approached ; for it frequently happened, thaton that day the herdsmen of one district wentto attack those of another district, and to bringthem under subjection to them by main force, llnews were brought that a hostile party approached,the horns sounded to arms, and they immediatelyarranged themselves in the best order they couhdevise ; the stoutest and boldest in front, and thoseof inferior prowess behind. Seldom did they waiihe approach of the enemy, but usually went fortho meet them with a bold countenance, the captainof each company carrying the colours, and leadingthe van. When they met, they mutually desiredeach other to lower1 their colours in sign of subjec¬tion. If there appeared to be a great dispropor¬tion in the strength of the .parties, the weakestusually submitted to this ceremony without mud:difficulty, thinking their honour was saved by theevident disproportion of the match ; but, if theywere nearly equal in strength, none of them woukyield, and-it ended in blows, and sometimes blood¬shed. It is related, that, in a battle of this kind,four were actually killed, and many disabled fromwork for weeks,If no opponent appeared, or if they themselves:had no intention of making an attack, at aboutmid day they took down their colours, and marched!with horns sounding, towards the most considera-jhie village in their distr ict, where the lasses, and!all the people came out to meet them, and partake :of their diversions. Boundaries were immediate-sen at* noon. 11y appointed, and a proclamation made, that alltvho intended to compete in the race should ap¬pear. A bonnet ornamented with ribbons wasdisplayed upon a pole, as a prize to the victor ;and sometimes five or six started for it, and ranwith as great eagerness as if they had been to gaina kingdom ; the prize of the second race was apair of garters, and the third a knife. They thenamused themselves for some time, with such ruralsports as suited their taste, and dispersed quietlyto their respective homes before sunset.When two parties met, and one of them yielded.to the other, they marched together for some timein two separate bodies, the subjected body behindthe other ; and then they parted good friends, eachiperforming their races at their own appointed place.■ Next day, after the ceremony was over, the rib¬bons and napkins that formed the colours, were; carefully returnetl to their respective owners, thei tower was no longer a matter of consequence, andI the country returned to its usual state of tranquility.. . .iSINGULAR ADVENTURE.11N the year 1779, when the war with America. was conducted with great spirit upon the continent,a division of the British army was encamped onI the banks of a river, in a position so favoured by• nature, that it was difficult for any military art toi surprize it. War in America was rather a spe-Icies of hunting than a regular campaign. “Ifyou fight with art,” said Washington to his sol¬diers, “ you are sure to be defeated. Acquire dis¬cipline enough for retreat, and the uniformity of13 THE MONTHLYcombined attack, and your country will prove thebest of engineers,’’—-So true was the maxim ofthe American General, that the English soldiershad to contend with little else. The Americanshad incorporated the Indians into their ranks, andhad made them useful in a species of war to whichtheir habits of life had peculiarly fitted them. Theysallied out of their impenetrable forests and jungles,and, with their arrows and tomahawks, committeddaily waste upon the British army,—surprisingtheir centinels, cutting off their stragglers, andeven when the alarm was given and pursuits com¬menced, they fled with a swiftness that the speedof cavalry could not overtake, into rocks and fast¬nesses whither it was dangerous to follow them.In order to limit as far as possible this speciesof war, in which there Mas so much loss and solittle honour, it was the custom with every regi-meut to extend its outposts to a great distance be¬yond the encampments; to station ecu tin els somemiles in the woods- and keep a constant guardround the main body,A re%hmnt of foot was at this time stationedupon the confines of a boundlegg savannah. Itsparticular oflice was to guard every avenue of ap¬proach to the main body; the centinels, whoseP -Sts penetrated into the woods, were supplied fromt ,e ranks, and the service of this regiment was thusmore hazardous than that of any other. Its losswas likewise great. I he centiuejs were perpetual¬ly surprised upon their posts by the Indians, andwere borne oil then stations without communicat¬ing- any alarm, or being heard of alter.SCRAP BOOK. 13Not a trace was left of the manner in whichthey had been conveyed away, except that, uponone or two occasions, a few drops of blood had ap¬peared upon the leaves which covered the ground.Many imputed this unaccountable disappearance totreachery, and suggested as an unanswerable argu-.ment, that the men thus surprised might at leasthave tired their muskets, and communicated thealarm to the contiguous posts. Others, whocould not be brought to consider it as treachery,were content to receive it as a mystery which timewould unravel.One morning, the centinels having been station¬ed as usual over night, the guard went at sun-riseto relieve a post which extended a considerabledistance into the wood. The centinel was gone !The surprise was great ; hut the crcumstance hadoccurred before. They left another man and de¬parted, wishing him better luck, “ You need nothe afraid,” said the man with warmth, “ I slnillnot desert]” The relief company returned to theguard-house. The centinels wei e replaced everytwenty-four hours, and, at the appointed time the. guard again marched to relieve the post—Toi their inexpressible astonishment the man was gone!IThey searched round the spot, but no traces couldhe found of his disappearance. It was necessarythat th.e station, for a stronger motive than ever,should not remain unoccupied ; they were com¬pelled to leave another man and return to the guard¬house. The superstition of the soldiers was awakened, and the terror ran through the regiment.1 he Colonel being apprised of the occurrence,14 THE MONTHLYsignified his intention to accompany the goal dwhen they relieved the eentinel they had left.- Atthe appointed time they all marched together ; andagain, to their unutterable wonder, they found theplace vacant and the man gone ! Under these cii-■c urns tan ces, the Colonel hesitated whether he should .station a whole company on the spot, or whether heshould again submit the post to a single cent.neThe cause of these repeated disappearances otmen, whose courage and honesty were suspected,must be discovered ; and it seemed not likely thatthis discovery could be obtained by persisting nrthe old method. Three have men were now lostto the regiment, and to assign the post to a fourthseemed nothing less than giving him up to destruc¬tion. The poor fellow whose turn it was to take 11£station, though in other respects of incomparableresolution, trembled from head to foot. “ 1 mustdo my duty,” said he to the officer, “ 1 know tliatpbut 1 should like to lose my life with more credit.I will leave no man,” said the Colonel, “ agains?his will.” A man immediately slept from tinranks and desired to take the post, l-vtiy oncommended his resolution. “ 1 will not be tawalive,” said he, “and you will hear of n.e on tlileast alarm. At all events I will fire my piece,I hear the least noise. If a crow chatters, oileaf falls, you shall hear my musket.—You may talarmed when nothing is the matter ; but you mutake the chance as the condition of the discoveryThe Colonel applauded his courage, and told inhe would be right to fire upon the least noise whnwas ambiguous. His comrades shook hands wiSCRAP BOOK. 15! him, with a melancholy foreboding. The companymarched back, and waited the event in theguard house.An hour had elapsed, and every ear was uponthe rack, for the discharge of the musket, whenupon a sudden, the report was heard. The guardimmediately marched, accompanied, as before, bythe Colonel, and some of tire most experiencedofficers of the regiment. As they approached tirepost, they saw the man advancing towards them,dragging another man on the ground by the hairo' the head. W hen they came up to him, it ap¬peared to be an Indian whom he had shot. Anexplanation was immediately required.“ I told your Honour,” said the man, “ that Ishould fire if I heard the least noise. The resolu¬tion I had taken has saved my life. I had notbeen long- on my post when I heard a rustling atsome distance j I looked, and saw an Americanhog, such as are common in the woods, crawlinga.ong the ground, and seemingly looking for nuts-under the trees and amongst the leaves. As theseanimals are so very common, 1 ceased to considerit for some minutes ; but being on the constantalarm and expectation of attack, and scarcelyknowing what was to he considered a real cause ofapprehension, I kept my eye vigilantly upon it,and marked its progress among the trees ; stillhheie was no need to give the alarm, and mVjjthoughts were directed to danger from anotherjquarter. It struck me, however, as -somewhatsingular to see this animal making by a circuitouspassage, for a thick coppice immediately behindI ll K aiO.Nlli^YIUn'y post. I therefore kept my eye more constant¬ly fixed upon it, and as it was now within a few»yards of the coppice, hesitated whether I shouldnot fire. My comrades, thought I, will laugh aiume for alarming them by shooting a pig ! 1 had.)almost resolved to let it alone, when just as it ap¬proached the thicket, I thought I observed it g:vesan unusual spring. I no longer hesitated ; I took!my aim, discharged my piece, and the animal was:instantly stretched before me with a groan whichI conceived to be that of a human creature. Iwent up to it, and judge my astonishment when IIfound tint I had killed an Indian 1 He envelopedhimself with the skin of one of these wild hogs soartfully and completely; his hands and feet wereso entirely concealed in it, and his gait and appear-iance were so exactly correspoii lent to that of th«animal’s, that, imperfectly as they were always seeijthrough the trees and jungles, the disguise coulcnot be penetrated at a distance, ami scarcely dis¬covered upon the nearest aspect. He was armetwith a dagger and a tomahawk.”Such was the substance of this man’s relationThe cause of the disappearance of the other centhnels was apparent. The Indians, sheltered in thi. idisguise, secreted themselves in the coppice,watched the moment when they could throw it offburst upon the centinels without previous alarmand too quick, to give them an opportunity to discharge their pieces, either stabbed or scalped themand bore their bodies away, which they concealeeat some distance in the leaves. 1 he Americanigave them rewards tor every seal}) they brought.SCRAP BOOK.17CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.He most eminent of the Scottish reformers wasnhn Knox, a n an of considerable abilities, of noss courage and resolution, a disciple of Calvin,ad a warm admirer of the constitution and disoip-ne which he had established at Geneva. Almostrom the sera of the Reformation in Scotland til! thattf the Revolution, there was a perpetual strugglejet ween the court and the people, for the establish¬ment cf an episcopal or presbyterian form of churchrovernment. The former model of ecclesiasticaljfolicy was patronised hy the House of Stewart, on.(•count of the support which it gave to the preroga-ives of the crown ; the latter was favoured by themajority of the people. I he Church of Scotlandwas at first congregational ; it afterwards assumedm episcopal appearance ; and in 1690, Presby-ei iaidsm was finally established.Scotland and England having been separateKingdoms at the tiule of the Reformation, a diffe¬rence of circumstances in the two countries led toDifferent sentiments on the subject of religion, andit last to different religious establishments. AndWhen they were incorporated into one kingdom bythe treaty of union, the same regard to the inclina¬tions of the people of Scotland, to which Presby¬terianism owed its first establishment in thatCountry, produced a declaration to which bothkingdoms gave their assent. “ that Episcopacydial! continue in England, and that the Presby-erian church government shall be the only govern-aient of the church of Scotland.”^ TH{3 MONTHLYHie doctrinal articles of this church are similar!to t lose of the church of England; but it is generally,understood that many of its ministers have widelydeparted from the national faith, as well as those ottt ,e Lpiscopal establishment. The popular party are|considered as more zealous for the doctrines of grace jand tor the articles ot their church in all theinstrictness ; and a very pleasing specimen of theirpulpit compositions, as well as of the doctrine taught,y them, may be met with in an able work, in four\olumes, entitled “ 1 he Scotch Preacher.”Ihe worship of the Church is extremely simple,,and but few ceremonies are retained. Knox laid•aside the Book of Common Prayer, and introduceda composition of his own, resembling the Liturgyof Geneva ; but there is now no form or liturgy’ ofanyjkiud in use. The minister’s sole guide is “ Theiiectory for the Worship of God,” drawn up bytie Westminster Assembly of Divines, in 1644;nor is it thought necessary to adhere strictly tothat, as its injunctions are but little regarded.In general the Lord’s Supper is not administeredoftenei than once or twice a-year ; its’celebration ispreceded by a fast, usually on Thursday, and by asermon on the Saturday; and on the Monday morn-ing it is followed by a public thanksgiving. Theyhave no altars in the churches, and the communion¬tables aie not fixed, but introduced for the occasion,and aie sometimes two or more in number, and ofconsiderable length. At the first table, after theclose of the consecration prayer, the minister usuallypioceeds to read the words of the institution, andimmediately distributes the elements to the twoiSCRAP BOOK. 19ommcnicants who sit nearest him on each hand :he elders administer them to the rest. Dm inghe services of the succeeding tables, addresses atome length are made by the minister, standing athe head of the communion table.M he Church of Scotland has no public formulary,10 creed or ten commandments, no festivals, nonstrumenta) music, iro consecration of churches or)f burying-grounds, no funeral service or ceremony,no sign of the cross in baptism, and no administra-pon of the sacrament in private houses to the sickor dying. Confirmation is rejected ; hut Ordina¬tion, by the laying on of the hands of the presbyterys now universally practised. Sponsors in baptismare disallowed ; and the father, who generally pre¬sents to baptism, does not make any promise for thechild, but for himself, that nothing shall be want¬ing on his part to lead the child, at some futureperiod, to undertake the obligations, of religion.i he discipline of the Church is chiefly admoni¬tory. I here is no officious interference in mutterswhich fall under the cognizance of the civil magis¬trate, no solicitude to investigate private offences,;the public censures of the church are reserved onlyfor scandalous offenders. The sin of uncfeannessis punished by the parties being required to presentthemselves m the church, for three different sabbaths,on a bench, called the Stool of Repentance, whenthey are openly rebuked by their minister in the faceof the congregation ; and those who do not chooseto submit to it are excommunicated, or deprived ofChristian privileges. In some instances, thispunishment is changed into a pecuniary fine,20THE MONTHLYEvery reg^niatioii of public worship, <ivrer'r netof discipline, and every ecclesiastical censure, is thejoint work of a certain number of ministers and lay-men acting together with equal authority, and deciding every question by majority. The laymen o;these courts are called elders, and ruling elders j.but they do not labour in the word and doctrine.'l hose elders are chosen from among the heads ot)families, of known orthodoxy and steady adherenceto the worship, discipline, and government of theChurch. Being solemnly engaged to use thenutmost endeavour for the suppression of vice, amthe cherishing of piety and virtue, and to exercisrdiscipline faithfully and diligently, the minister, in.the presence of the congregation, sets them aparto their office by solemn prayer, and concludes withexhorting both elders and people to their respedtive duties.1 he lowest ecclesiastical court,called the ChurcJSession, consists of the ministers and elders. Tinminister is moderator, but has no power to decideagainst the Session, nor any right to vote, excepwhen the voices of the elders are equal and opposite. He may enter his protest against their sentence, and appeal to the judgment of the Presbytery; but this privilege belongs equally to evervother member of the Session.The next judicatory is the Presbytery, whicflconsists of all the pastors within a certain districtand one ruling elder from each parish. TinPresbytery treats of such matters as concern th*particular churches within its bounds ; as the exftmination, admission, ordination, and censuring oSCItAP BOOK. 21ministers ^ the licensing of probationers, directinghe sentence of excommunication, the deciding uponreferences and appeals fiom the Church Sessions,esolving cases ot conscience, explaining difficulties■ n doctrine or discipline, and censuring any here¬sy that has been propagated within the bounds ofits jurisdiction.From the judgment of the Presbytery, therelies an appeal to the Provincial Synod, whichgenerally meets twice in the year, and exerciseswithin its province, a jurisdiction similar to thathvhich is vested in each presbytery over the ChurchSessions. There are seventy-eight presbyteries,land fifteen synods, belonging to the Church ofScotland. The synods are composed of the mem¬bers of the several presbyteries within the respec¬tive provinces.The highest ecclesiastical court is the GeneralAssembly, which consists of a certain number otministers and ruling elders, delegated from each"presbytery, and of commissioners chosen annuallyfrom the royal boroughs. I he president of thisassembly represents the Sovereign, under tnecharacter of Lord High Commissioner, who hasa salary of fifteen hundred a-year, hut has nc voicein their-deliberations. Appeals are brought fromall the other ecclesiastical courts in Scotland tothe General Assembly; and in questions purelyreligious, no appeal lies from its determinations.The church of Scotland includes about ninehuudred parishes, and nearly as many benefices.The clergy are required to deliver a sermon withprayers twice every Lord’s day, besides other oc-22THE MONTHLYcasional services. It is also expected throughouScotland, that the prayers and discourses shall bethe minister’s own c nnposition, and that they bedelivered without the use of papers. They arete:visit, to catechise, and to teach from house to.house ; to superintend all schools within theirbounds, and are especially charged with the careof the poor. The provision made for the clergyconsists of a stipend, a glebe of land of about sixacres, and a parsonage-house. 1 he livings on anaverage are not worth more than £200 a year,chiefly payable out of an assessment on the rentof land.VARIETIES.Ventriloquism—Mr Carmichael, the Ventriloquist, when at Had¬dington, one day stopped a woman on the street, who had arcinfant in her arms, patted and praised its bonny baby cheek, and slyly-inquired whether it could speak ? “ Speak 1 my certy 1 did ye everhear a bairn speak at live months, that hadna first beet) changed by thefairies ? Mine’s nae wan-thnven get, an’ can tak nae scaith ony way,as lang’s I keep the Bible aneath the cod.” This was too good an op¬portunity to be lost; and immediately a voice, small, shrill and sweet —aye, as sweet as the single stringed notes of Paganini, or Tommy Puck’s,when his throat with fiddle-strings was lined—exclaimed, “ A, mother’what a Ice 1 ye ken 1 can speak weel eneugh if ye wad let me. and ye’ken hoo ye feared me when I tell’d father about the glass o’ whisky.”The woman looked dumfounded, as she well might; and after mutter-ing, “ Preserve us 1 preserve us 1 the man’s a warlock, and has witchedthe wean.” crossed the street, and disappeared as fast as'her tremblin-r1 mbs could carry her. But the story was soon bruited abroad, anddid more for tbe ventriloquist than an advertisment in the newspapers.—On another occasion, Mr Carmichael was seated on the top of ac >ach, in company with various other passengers, one of whom, at somepoint of.the journey, in crossing over to the front seat, happened tostumble on a large bag. For this faux pas he suffered severely, andjumped up as nimbly as if a serpent had stung him, when he heard avoice wailing forth. “ Oh dear 1 oh dear 1 ye’re tramping, 1 tell ye, onmy leg.” From his looks as well as words it was obvious the manbelieved he had hurt a child ; but a sailor who was present said it wasSCRAP BOOK.23only a kitten imitating sounds ; while a third nartv i-„*thing of Carmichael’s art, declared it was neither,hut merely a ventriloquist. “ A what *” said the honest tar, again compfctelv out n5^'reckoning; and after a tew moments <i»gi,afia“ Ed thev ^open the bag, and let him look at it, having a ^se f with activity, alertness, chastity, and valour ; havL been inral skirmishes with the enemy, and received two wound? b e"remarkably vigilant soldier on her post, and always -ained the'6 T* &and admiration of her officers A vinlenr ;tin i ?WD, “ aPplausew ^ .h,„ ^ause of her personating a man, proceeded from the risrour of h j ’erents, who exerted their prerogative to induct her ,!? her -Da-heard to say, “ that it was the tv, ’• r husband has often been».™a s™ ?eK *PI"'“ » “• *h» »o»!S2& ::,ifr,r,7tirrko" •«* -w.guest. A French auffior rehtes T wl .m e ^ ^ en,ertain such *Charles Gustavus (the successor to Chri ti * t lnstance of this kind.",d em.ancc, o«„Ll, h““Sir (said the fellow, irritated at the rLarkl vour"' ^ “ SOrcerer-niake that old gentleman take off his sword and sDui-VT^'n Wl11 butbefore your face, before I begin with the nm ”r?- i l- eat /‘iwwho had at the head of a body of Swedes performed™ Ko,ninSsmark,the Austrians, and who was looked upon as one 0f ql t0n< CrS aSalllstthe age, could not however stand this?,™ i , bravest men ofaccompanied by a most hideous and ?°Sa ’ and,esPeclalIy a* it wasJa'vs. Without uttering a word t m vS^ nf ,CXpanSi°n °f theaffected him, ^covered of the panic which had so severely24the monthlyUtefulnCs of Wrens As a devourerof pernicious insects, one of theSul birds is the house wren. This little -ms Peorhar yfond of the society of man, and it be confessed that t ^ Ptected by his interested care. It has long been a costomm ^nypartsof the country: to fix a small box’at the end ot a long pole >n ’about houses, &c. as a place for it to build in. In ^ ^^xes tbeybuild and hatch their young. VV hen the young are hatched, foe parent bird fe ds them with a variety of different insects, P*™"/as are injurious in gardens. An intelligent gentleman was at the trouble to observe the number of times apairnf these birds came from theirbox, and returned with insects for their young. He found that foydid this from forty to sixty times in an hour, and in pa thour, the birds carried food to their young seventy-one litr;es. 1business they were engaged the greater part of the day , say twelhours Taking the medium therefore of fifty times in an honr, it ap-beans, peas, and other vegetables m the garden at f fthe course of one day. This calculation proceeds upon *c supposi«onthat the two birds took only a sing e insect each time,ly probable they often took several at a time.rARDEN WORK IN AUGUST.If any seeds were omitted to be sown last month, haemjiovF. Sow cabbage and all kinds of greens o standthrough the winter for plants in spring ; also cabbage andDutch lettuces on warn! borders, for winter use. Earthup celery, and plant out more. Clean asparagus bedsUnion, plant more broeoli, cabbage, &c. About themiddle sow cauliflower and prickly spmage. Gather on¬ions gaUic, and all sweet herbs. Clip thorn hedges,^pare thrift edgings.August 1st.h.Day breaks, 1Sun rises, I  sets, /Twilight ends,  10m.23If?4237August 31st.Day breaks, Sun rises,—-sets,Twilight ends... ??A