THELIFEOFRICHARD TURPIN,A MOST NOTORIOUSHIGHWAYMAN.GIVING A PARTICULAR ACCOUNT OF ALL HISDaring RobberiesAnd Burglaries.His broiling a woman to make her discover her pro¬perty.—Robbing a wealthy farmer at Charlton.—Robbery and brutal conduct to Mr. Lawn11'''Mr. Francis, and numerous others. .Rewards forhis apprehension—His disguises to evade beingtaken.—Robberies in company with King theHighwayman in Epping forest.—Shooting the Ran¬ger’s man near their cave—His escape from theButcher, likewise from Mr. Ives the King’s hunts¬man, who pursued him with blood-hounds Hisapprehension, and committal to York Castle,Trial, Execution,BURIAL, $c.FALKIRK:PRINT FD FOR THE ROOK SELLER«,THELIFEOFRICHARD TURPIN.RICHARD TURPIN was born at Hampstead,in Essex, where his father followed the occu¬pation of a Butcher, with a fair reputation ;3nd af¬ter being the usual time at school, he was appren¬ticed to a Butcher in Whitechaple, but did notserve out his time, for he was discharged, for thebrutality, and egregious improprety of his conduct,which was much increased by the improper indul¬gence of his parents, in supplying him with money,which enabled him to cut a dash round the townamong the blades of the toad and turf, whose com¬pany he affected to keep.His friends, thinking that mrrriage, and a settle¬ment in life, would reclaim him, persuaded him tomarry Hester Palmer, a young woman of goodfamily, but he had not long been married, beforehe again returned to vice, and became acquaintedwith a gang of theives. whose depredations alarmedthe whole county of Essex, and the neighbourhoodof London. His shave of the spoil was not suflici-ent, it appears, to support his extravagancs, for he3joined sheep-stealing to foot-pad robbery, and wasat last obliged to fly his native place, for stealing ayoung heifer, which he sold.Soon after, he stole two oxen from one farmerGiles, and drove them to a slaughter-house nearWaltham abbey. Gile’s servants came to this placein pursuit of them, where finding two carcases, an-* swering the description, they shrewdly suspectedthat Turpin was the owner, and having found theskins after a strict search, they had not the leastdoubt that they were the stolen cattle. A warrantwas accordingly issued for his apprehension ; but he| soon had scent that the runners were after him, andgot off in time to save himself. He escaped, justj at the moment they were entering the door.Finding his situation at Waltham Abbey ratherperilous, he retreated into the Hundreds of Essex,where he foum greater security; but as he couldnot live long without a fresh supply of money, hehit upon a new scheme to support himself, and thatwas to rob the smugglers he happened t® meetontheroad; but he took care not to attack a gang,only such solitary' travellers as fell in his way, andthen he did it with a colour of justice ; for he con¬stantly* pretended to have a deputation from thecustoms, and so took their property in the king’sname. He got tired of this kind of business after a| while ; and the retirement to which he wascondemned, in this pursuit, not suiting the volatilityof his disposition, he went in search of the gangwith whom he had before connected himself, theprincipal part of whosedepredations were committedupon Epping Forrest, and the adjacent ju.n ; hutthis business soon became r.n object cf magisteriainquiry, he again returned to the solitude of thecountry, with some more of the gang, and theybecame notorious deer-stealers ; and I orpin beinga good shot he sent many a good buck up to J; isconnexions in London.But this business like the former; not succedingto their expectations, they determined to be house¬breakers ; and in this they were much encouragedby joining with Gregor’s gang, as it was then called,a company of desperadoes that made the Essexand adjacent roads very dangerous to travel. Inthese maurauding expeditions they made manydesperate and successful attempts ;one in particularat the house of Mr. Strype, an old man who kept achandler shop at Watford, where they got a goodbooty; for they robbed the house of all the valua¬bles in it, but did not give its possessors any personalviolence, and this moderation was entirely owing toTurpin, who did not permit his comrades to pro¬ceed to abuse, that his own character might not becharged with unnecessary cruelty.In one night’s time, this gang robbed Chinkfordand Barking churches of all the moveables left inthe vestries, but the plate at both places, beingplaced in the respective churchwarden’s possession,they got but an indifferent booty. Turpin eluded,with some of his companions, the search that wasmade after them ; but three of them were taken,one turned evidence, and the other two were trans¬ported.^Notwithstanding his character was pretty wellblazoned about, two months after, he had the au¬dacity to present himself at Suson in Essex, wherehis wife lived, and here he also lived unnoticed forsix months, but when his concealment was discov¬ered, he made a quiet retreat by night, and nothingwas heard of him until the robbery of Farmer Law¬rence, when he joined with others called the Essexgang, the principal ©f whom were Ned Rust, Geo.Gregory, Fielder, Rose, and Wheeler. This Gre¬gory was an old offender, and had robbed in con-juuction with Dick Swift, both scholars of Jona¬thon Wild, who had but lately been hanged.5These followed deer-stealing in the daytime, b«tbeginning to be too well known by the keepers, &not finding money come in so fast as they expectedthey formed themselves into a body, by Turpinsdirections, and went round the country at night,and whatever house tliey knew had any valuables,they marked. Their method was, one to knock atthe door, and the rest to rush in and plundered ; &such was their impudence, that they were not al¬ways satisfied with the money, plate, watches, andrings they found, but even took away the house¬hold goods that suited them.Somehow or other, Turpin became acquaintedwith the circumstances of an old woman who livedat Loughton, that always kept a great quantity ofready cash hy her; whereupon he and the gang a-greed to rbb her, and when they came to the d jor,Wheeler knocked at it, and Turpin and the rest,forced their way into the house, blindfolded theeyes of th“ old woman and her maid, and tied thelegs of her son, a well-grown lad to the bed-stead,and proceeded to rob the house, ; but not at firstfinding the wished-for booty, they all set about aconsultation what to do to get at it; for they werecertain she must have a considerable sum concealedsomewhere or other about the house Turpin beganto examine her where her money and effects werehid, telling her at the same time, that he knew shehad money, and it was in vain to deny it, for haveit they would. The old gentlewoman being veryloath to part with her money, persisted in it thatshe had none, and would not declare any thingmore of the matter ; upon which some of the gangwere inclined to believe her, and were sorry fortheir disappointment, but Turpin as strenuouslyinsisted she had money, as she said that she hadnone, and at last, with horrid oaths and imprecations,swore he would put her on the fire. She continuedobstinate for al! that, imagining tint he meant onlyto threaten her; and so very fond was she of herdarling gold, that she even suffered herself to beserved as.he hai declared, and endured it for sometime, till the anguish at last forced her to make adiscovery, .which when she had done, they took heroff'the grate, and robed her of all they could find.Sortie persons talk of a much more larger sam, butit is certain they stole upwards of four hundredpounds, and decamped sately with the booty.The next place they robbed was a farmer’s atRipple Side, near Barking, where the people of thehouse not coming to the door as soon as they wantedthem, they, brokd" it open. They first of all,according to their old scheme, gagged, tied, andblind-folded all they found in the place capable ofopposing them ; and then robbed the house ofabout 7001. which delighted Turpin so much, that,he exclaimed “ Aye that is the thing ! That’s yoursort for the rag, (a cant term for monej) if itwould but last! ’ and they safely retired with theirprize, which amounted to above 80). a man. Thisrobbery was committed in the beginning of the year1726. This success so much flushed Turpin andhis associates that several others joined them, in-somuch, that they became a formidable crew andmany times, when together, defied the legalauthority of the magistrates; and their adroitnesswas such, that they escaped detection for manymonths.Some time after they determined to attack thehouse of Mr. Mason, the keeper ol Epping Forest,who was pitched upon to feel the eftects of theirresentment for his former vigilence in disturbingtheir poaching incursions intojns district. ButTurpin was not concerned in this affair; for hehappened at that time to be at London, wheredrinking tcc freely, he forgot his appointment; birt7the job wa? dons without him by-Rust. Rose andFielder, who previously bound themselves togetNerby oath not to leave a whole thing in the house.Fielder got over tha wall, and broke in backward,when letting in his companions, they proceeded totheir business. Mr. Mason was at home sitting upin his bed-room, with his father an aged gentleman.Alter using their usual means of tying their handsand feet, they asked the old man if he knew them ;but answering he did not, they carried hira into thekitchen, and put him under the dresser. Mr. Masonhad a sack forced over his he.?*, and tied round hiswaist ; and in the. flurry his little girl got out ofbed, and without any clothes on, hid herselfin the hog-sty. Turpin’s absence from this•expedition was a very unfortunate circumstance tothe forest-keeper’s family for they proceeded togreater length in their mischief then he wouldhave permitted them had he been present, as he» was always satisfied with the plunder, withoutadding cruelty to oppression. They now went upstairs, and broke every article of furniture in theRouse- The china and glass made a dreadful ringing,the chairs were piled upon thet fire,; looking-glasses,drawers, and tables, were beat to pieces with bedposts ; while the beds and carpets were cut to pieceswithout remorse. This wanton havoc producedthem but little, besides the brutal satisfaction ofrevenge; and they would have retired without asingle guinea, had it not been, that in the generalwreck of every thing, a china punch bowl wasbroke, that stood a little out of the way, upon ashelf, and out of it dropped 22 guineas which they'picked up and retired with, after they had done as*iuch mischief as they possifc’y could, a id got safeeft, no doubt, very well satisfied with the severeretaliation that they had made. They then tookroad to London; and coming through Whitechapel,8met Turpin, with whom they went to the Bun-house;in the Rope fields, where they shared their bootywith him, which proves the old adage, viz. there ishonour amongst theives, though they had not tak¬en any active share in the execution of the villany.The booties they had succesively made them¬selves master of, had not in the least abated theirardour in the pursuit of more ; for, like the miser,the spendthrift felon is never satisfied, but the morehe gets, the more he lavishes, and though he doesnot secure any thing for a rainy day, takes everyopportunity to get more, or, as some pf the frater¬nity have been heard to say, they often rob “ tokeep their hands in”The next robbery they committed^was about sev¬en or eight o’ clock in the evening. Rust, Tur¬pin, Fielder, Walker, and three others, came to thehouse of Mr. Saunders, a wealthy farmer at Charl¬ton, in Kent, and knocked at the door, inquired ifMr. Saunders was at home. Being answered thathe was, and the door opened, they all rushed in1 &went directly to the parlour, where Mr. Saunders,his Wife, and some friends, were at cards : theydesired them not to be frightened ; for they wouldnot hurt their persons, if they sat still and made nodisturbance. The first thing they laid hands onwas a silver snuff-box. which lay upon the tablebefore them , and having secured the rest of thecompany, obliged Mr. Saunders to go about thohouse with them, and open his closets, boxes, andescrutoir, whence they took upwards of one hundredpounds in money, and all the plate in the house, avelvet hoed, mantle, and other things. Whilst thiswas doing, the servant maid got loose, ran up stairs,barred herself in one of the rooms, and called outof the window for assistance, in hopes of alarmingthe neighbourhood ; but one of the rogues ran upstairs after her, and with a poker broke open the9door, brought her down again, bound her, and allthe rest of the family ; then they rifled the houseof every thing of value ; and finding in their searchsome bottles of wine, a bottle of brandy, and somemince pies, they obliged the company to drink aglass of brandy each . Mrs. Saunders fainted withthe fright, they got her a glass of water, and putt¬ing some liquor into it, gave it to her, and werevery careful to recover her. They staid a consid¬erable time in the house after feasting and packingup their booty, and when they departed, they de¬clared, that if any of the family gave the least g-larm within two hours, or advertised the marks ofthe plate they had stolen, they would return andmurder them at a future time. This robbery wasI concerted, at Woolich, whence they proceeded toput their design into execution, and when they ef¬fected it, they crossed the water and brought theirgoods to in empty house in Rutclffe highway, andthere they deposited their plunder and divided the[ proceeds.They next proceeded into Surry, where TurpinKust, Fielder, Swift, and Walker, robbed Mr. Shel¬dons house, a lone building near Croydon Church,where they arrived about seven o’ clock at night.They began their operations here, by securingthe Coachman in the stable, whom they bound andlocked securely in. His master being in an out¬house, and hearing strange voices in the yard, wasproceeding that way to learn the cause, when hewas met by Turpin and Walker, who seizing him,compelled him to shew them the way into the housewhich, when they had got into, they securedeach of the doors, and -confined of the family intoone room, and set a gaurd on it within and withoutMr. Shcldon:s man unluckily coming to the dcorfrom abroad, was first knocked down, and thendragged into the passage and tied, while they ian-10sicked the house. But they were very much dis¬appointed •tor they found but lictle cash, and noplate. From Mr. SheUons person^ they took ele¬ven guineas, two of which Turpin returned to him,begging pvdon for what they had done, and wish¬ing him a good night.Notwithstanding the situation in which they hadleft the people here, they had the temerity andas-fhranCe to go to the half-moon Tavern at Croydonwhefe they each regaled themselves with a glassof spirits.sand changed one of the guineas they hadsc recently taken from Mr. Sheldon. In their wayout one of them let fall a diamond pin of^great valvein the passage, which was found by the servant girland returned to the owner. Toe business beingcompleted they cametothe Black-horse in theBroad-way Westminster, near which Rust and Rose lodg¬ed with one Fletcher the notorious Nan Turner ofFolden Lane memo'y, who secreted herself hetefrom the pursuit of justice, for the murder of afeliow lodger of her own sort. Here they concer¬ted another robbery, of which Rose and Fielde r,were for that time the captains.These robberies had hitherto been carried on onfoot, with only the occasional assistance of a hack¬ney coach ; but now they aspired to appear < nhorse-back, for which purpose, they hired horsesat the old leaping bar in high Ilolbom, whencethey set cut about two o’ clock and arrivedat the Queens head, near i’tanrnore, at five, whetethey staid to regale themselves. It was by thismeans that Wood the master of the house, had sagood an opportunity of observing the horses, as toremember the same again, when he saw it afterwar (isin King Street, Bloomsbury, where they were taken.About five o’clock they went from Wood’s theQueen’s //ead to Stanmore, anti staid there fro assix until about seven o’clock ; and then all we it11; fctray together for Mr, Lawrence’s, which wasabout a mile from thence, where they arrived abouthalf an hour after seven. Mr. Lawrence had justbefore been paying off some workmen, which weredischarged, and gone from the house.On their arrival at Mr. Lawrence they alightedI from their horses at the outer gate ; and Fielderill getting over the hatch into the sheep-yard, met withij with Mr, Lawrence’s boy putting up some sheep.1 They seized and presented a pistol to him, FielderI saying he would shoot him if he offered to cry out;ij and then took the boy’s garters and tied his handsij inquiring what servants Mr. Lawrence kept, andrj who was in the house, which they obliged him to1 tell them. They told him they would not hurthim, but that he must go to the door with them;i and when they knocked at it, if any body withinshould ask who it was, that the boy was to answer,s and bid them open the door to let him in and they■ would give him some money. Accordingly theyled the boy to the door, but he was so terrified tliathe had no power to speak ; whereupon Gregoryknocked at the door, and called out Mr Lawrence,the man servanf apprehending it to be some of theneighbours only, opened the door, upon which they ‘all rushed in with pistols in their hands crying out,1)—n your blood, how long have you lived here? andimmediately seizing Mr. Lawrence and his man,thrnsv a cloath over their faces, and then took th*boy, and led him into <he next room, with hishands tied, demanded of him what fire-arms Mr.Lawrence had in his house ; and being told theirwas none but an old gun, they went and fetchedthat, and broke it to pieces; then took MrLawrence’s man, bound his hands, led him into theroom where the boy was, and made him sit downthere; and also bound Mr. Lawrence. Turpin cutdown his breeches ; and they fell to rifling hispockets, out of which they took one guinea, and aPortugal piece of thirty six shillings, about fifteenshillings in silver, and his keys. They said thatmoney was not enough that they must have more,and drove Mr. Lawrence up stairs, where comingto a closet, although they had taken the key fromMr. Lawrence before and had it in their custody,yet they broke open the door, and took out fromthence two guineas, ten shillings in silver, a silvercup, thirteen silver spoons, twogoldrings, and whatthey could find; and in their search meeting witha bottle of elder wine, they obliged the servants |to drink twice of it. Dorothy Street, the maid¬servant, being in the back house churning, andhearing a noise, suspected they were theives whowere got into the house ; and in order to save her¬self, she put out the candle ; but they rushed inupon her, tied her hands, and then brought herinto the room where the other servants were; theythen rifled the house of all they could get, h'nen,table cloths, napkins, shirts, and the sheetsfrom off the beds ; and trod the beds under feet,,to discover if any money was concealed therein.Suspecting there was more money in the house,they brought Mr. Lawrence down again, andthreatened to cut his throat; and Rose put a knifeto it, as if he intended to do it, to make him confesswhat money was in the house. One of them tooka chopping-bill, and threatened to cut off his leg.They then broke his head with their pistols, anddragged him about by the hair of the head. Anotherof them took a kettle of water off the fire, and flungit upon him ; but it did no other harm than wetting ■him, by reason the maid had just before taking outthe greatest part of the boiling water, and filled itagain with cold. After this they dragged himabout again swearing they would “ do for him,” ifhe did not immediately inform them where the restISof his money was hid. They then proceeded tomake a farther search ; and Gregory, who acted aschief in this affair, swore to the maid, that if shewould tell or show him where the money was hid,he would give her something charming fine to wear;to which she replied, she could not inform him ofany. This did not in the least satisfy him, for heforced her up stairs, where he acted in great vio¬lence, and, after bolting the door, swore he wouldshoot her, if she offered to cry out, telling her itwould be better for her master’s family, if she didso; or he would go to her master’s son’s house,the next adjoining, and strip it of every thing ;for he said he knew the master was from home.Not being able to get any thing out of h er, he tiedher fast to the bed-posts, and left her; not forget-ing to threaten her with his immediate return, ifshe made the least disturbance,He then returned to the boy, and enquiredwhether his master’s son would return that night; .and being informed he would, he said that he alsowould go there, and see the house. Upon this,two of them took the boy out to the place ; but, onfurther consideration, they did not attempt anything there that night. Upon their return, theyrummaged every thing i then house; In a chestwhich belonged to Mr. Lawrence’s youngest son,the;, turned out £201. and packed up the linen,and withdrew, threatening to return again in halfan hour, and kill every one they should find loose.So saying, they locked them all in the parlour,took the keys of the back and front door and threwthem down the privy, which was in the area.Some of the goods were lost by the way; forthey were in such haste to get off, that they lookedback for nothing ; and some were afterwards foundin Field Lane, and others in Chice Lane and Saffornf/ill, where the gang mostly resided, and where14some were taken. Turpin by this robbery got butlittle ; for out of 271. they got in the whole, hedistributed among them all but three guineas andsix shillings and sixpence.Such frequent robberies, and the particulars ofthis atrocious one, being represented to the king,a proclamation was issued for the apprehension eftire offenders, and a pardon and £50. wasoffeiedto any oftheparty who wouldimpeach his accomplices.This however had no effect; for they continuedtheir depredations with more systematical ingenuity,and at such distances that none could be aware«f their approach. The success they met withelated their spirits, and encouraged-them to biddefiance to the excutive laws of the country.In the mouth of danger, and in the midst ofalarm, which their audacites ha l occasioned, Tuipixand his gang were as careless as they were heedless.The White Hart, at the upper end of Drury Line,was their constant place of rendezvous. Herethey planed their nightly visits, and here thej divid-od their spoil, and spent the property theyuniawf allyacquired. The gang all this time consisted of agreat number, from the bold adventurer on horse¬back, to the pitiful stripper of children's cioaths,These transactions alarmed the whole country,nobody thinking themselves safe : upon which Mr.Thomson, one of king’s forest-beepers, went to theDuke of Newcastle’s office, and obtained hisMajesty’s promise of arewardof'onehnndredpoundsfor whoever should apprehend any of them. Thismade them more shy then they were before ; but,however, they could notconceal themselves entirely,and they still frequented their old haunts ; whenaome of the justices’ men hearing that a number ofthem usualey met at an alehouse in an alley inWestminster, they went thither, where fin,lingTurpin, Fielder, Rose and Wheeler, after a short15tonflict with cutlashes three at last were secured,but not till one Bob Berry, a cork-cuter, had higarm dangerously cut across a little below the elbow.During this scuffle Turpin made his escape out ofa window, and getting ahorse run away immediately.Wheeler turned evidence, and two of the othe«were hanged in chains.This affair broke up the gang. Turpin beingnow left to himself, had more prudence than tofollow houserobbing immediately after, particularlyas he was so well know; and having some moneyin his pocket, he took a resolation to be concernedwith no other gang but to act entirely on his ownbottom. ’ With this view he set off to Cambridge,which he judged to be the best place, as he was notknown in that part of the country.Near Alton he met with an odd encounter, whichgot him the best companion he ever had, as he oftendeclared. Kingjthehi hwayman, as he was return¬ing from this place for London, being well dressedand mounted, Turpin seeing himhivethe appear¬ance of a substantial gentleman, rode up to him,and thinking him a fair mark, bade him stand, anddeliver, and thereupon producing his pistols, Kingtell a-laughing, and said, “What, dog rob dog!Come, Come Brother Turpin, If you don’t knowme, I know you, and would be very glad of yourcompany.” After a mutual communication of cir¬cumstances, they agreed to keep company, and di¬vide good or ill fortune, as the trumps might turnup. In fact, King was true to him to the last, andthis was for more than three years, when King methis fate by a ball on t» j road.They met with various fortunes ; but being bothtoo well known to remain long in one place, and asao house that knew them would receive them in it,they formed the resolution of making themselves a•*»ve, covered wk* bavins and earth, and for that16pmpsse pitched Upon a convenient place, enclosedwith a thicket, situated on the Waltham side ofEpping, near the sign of the royal oak. Here theyexcavated, and covered with thicket-wood, andquickset, a 4lace large enough to receive them, andtheir horses i and while they lay quietly concealedthemselves, could, thro' several holes, discover thepassengers as they went along the road; and asthey thought proper, would issue out, and rob themin such a bold and daring stile, that they weremore admired than blamed. The very higglers onthe road did not always escape their requisitions,but they were mostly repaid again; whilst thosewho went armed, lost their pieces, were woundedand robbed of all they carried about them. Turpin’swife was their messenger, went to the market forvictuals for them, supplied them with linen, andfrequently remained thera a whole week together.In this place Turpin lived, eat, drank, and lay, forthe space of six years, during the first three of whichhe was enlivened be the drollery of his companionTom King, who was afeliow of infinite humour fartelling stories, and of unshaken resolution in attackor defence.These forest partners frequently issued fromfrom their cell like the theives from the cave inGil Bias, and take a ride out in quest of plunder.King and he once riding towards Bungay, in Suffolk,met twa young market women, who had justreceived a considerable sum of money for corn.King proposed to rob them, but Turpin dissuadedhim from it, alleging for a reason, that they averetwo pretty inoffensive girls, • and he would not beconcerned in it. King swore he wmuld rob them,and accordingly did so, against Turpins consent,which occasioned a dispute between them.It would be an endless task to relate every par¬ticular robbery they committed r hile in connectiontogether in this fastness of the forest j for it iagenerally known, at that time there was no regulari police, established 6y government as is now; andthe improved state of the roads, together, make itimpossible for such daring disturbers of the peace,to remain any length of time in one place.The mail having been robbed upon Stamford hillthe bag, and most of the letters, were found scat¬tered about near that part of the forest, which wassupposed to be the abode of Turpin and his associ¬ate : for several circumstances had occured, tomake it a probable event that he might be foundthereabouts; besides, the Woodfordstage-coachman,who knew' hirn perfectly well, as well as hisi colleague King, had cften been heard to say, thatif any person would give him arms and a hundredpounds, dead or alive he would give some acountof Turpin; but his time was not yet arrived, al¬though he had so long been the terror and talk ofthe country round London, as well as at remoterdistance.sTurpin and King next stopped a person of verydecent appearance, near Hackney, and demandedhis money : but the gentleman burst into tears, saidhe was in circumstances of distress, and possessedonly eighteen pence ; on which, instead of robbinghim they made him a present of half-a-crown aproofthat sentiments ofhumanity may not be utterlybanished even Com tl,ie bosom of a theif. On theirreturn to town they robbed a man of fourteenshillings, and then went to their old place of retreat.Turpin had gone on for a long while in a mostnotorious and defying way, and the reward for ap¬prehending him had induced many to attempt it.Amongst the rest was the ranger Thomson’s man inin company with a higgler. Turpin was unarmed,standing alone, and not knowing the man, tookhim for one poaching for hares, and told him he18t^•ould get no hares near that thicket. " No” sayssays the fellow, “ but I have got a Turpin,” andpresented his gun at him, commanded him to suv-render. Turpin stood talking with him, andreceding back to his cave, laid hold of his carbine,and shot him dead, at which the higgler made off.The man’s death obliged Turpin to make offprecipitately ;sa he went farther into the countryin search of King; and sent his wife a letter tomeet him at a public-house in //ertford, who ac¬cordingly went, with two of Squire H—s’s servants.She waited for him about half an hour, and whenhe came to the house, he asked for her by a ficti¬tious name, left mn purpose. He soon found shawas there, and going to her through the kitchen,he saw a butcher to whom he ovred five pounds:the butcher taking him aside, “ come Dick,” sayshe, “ it would be of great service.” Turpin replied,his wife was in the next room, and she had money,and he would get some of her, and pay him present¬ly. The butcher apprised two or three who werepresent who he was, and that he would get his fivepounds first, and then take him , But Turpin in¬stead ef going to his wife, jumped outof the window,took horse, and went away immediately, withoutseeing her, while the butcher waited some time iaexpects tion of receiving his five pounds.After this he still kept about the forest, till feewas harassed almost to death, fdr he did not darego near his old place of safety, the cave, w hich wasransacked as scon as discovered after his shootingthe keepers man; and when they found his habita¬tion out, it contained two shirts in a cloth bag,five pair of stockings,, various shoes find boots,some few utensils to cook with, a quantity of shot,flints and powder, the remains of a bottle of wine,and some ham and pieces of bacon j so that, beingdriven from place to place, he skulked about the19outskirts of the woods, and was once very near taken,when Mr. Ives, the king’s huntsman, took out dry-footed hounds to find him; but perceiving them ata distance, before they had got scent of hirn, hegot up a tree, and saw them go underneath him,without noticing his retreat; upon which he at lasttook the resolution of going down into Yorkshire.He took a large house at Brough, near marketCave in Yorkshire, form whence to VVelton hecarried on an extensive trade in horses, selling andexchanging ; and at the time of the races he is saidto have realized about one thousand pounds, whichenabled him now to keep the first company stirringin those parts. On one of these occasional visitsto Brough, he met the celebrated Dicky Dicksofa,the hnmturous governor ef Scarborough Spa, towhom he sold a horse, which four years afterwardswas claimed by Squire Moore as his property, hehe liaving lost it off the marshes in LincolnshireHe went again to Long Sutton in Lincolnshire,where the people, be thought, would not know him;and as he abounded in money, he purposed to him¬self to commence a dealer in horses. In his waythither hemet a man on horseback, with a large boxbefore him; and, upon enquiry, he found him to bea mounthank travelling the country for the publicgood and his own. After a short introduction,Turpin proposed to keep him company, which wasno sooner mentioned then agreed upon ; and at thefirst stop they made, Turpin undertook the partef distributing the bills which fn a few hours broughta number of persons round him. The next beingmarket day, and seeing a number of good horses atthe inn where he put up at, he made free with cne,leaving his own in the same stall. His partner'sleather sack, hanging conveniently by the fireside,he turned out all the doctor’s compositions, andfilled it from the box of a jew peJlar, with which20he decamped, without being perceived. He disposed©f his horse at Long Sutton for ready money, to ayoung farmer, and found another credulous enough' to let him have one upon security of the hardwareand goods of which he robbed the jew.Soon after this he met a young woman in a neatdress sitting under a tree that grew on the road side;and being in a malancholy posture, he was veryimportunate to know the occasion of her being inthat situation. The young woman after returningreturning him thanks for his civility assured him shewas only resting herself from her fatigue, being goingon foot to her father’s house, not far distant.Upon hearing this, Turpin dismounted, and request¬ed her to take his place, and sit upon the saddle,which she declined.' However, at the next inn, heborrowed a pillion, and got up before her ; and inthat manner they reached the village where theyoung woman’s father dwelt. He called u pon hernext day, and was well entertained by the family ;and putting himself forward as a horse dealer,travelling upon business, procured himself the creditof two good draught horses, which he socn sold butforgot to pay for them. His temerity could now-only be equalled by his impudence. His depredationswere now the talk of the whole kingdom. Hisactivity and success were equal ; and although areward of two hundred pounds was’ offered by hisMajesty, with a free pardon to any of his accomplices,it failed of bringing him up; and the newspapers con¬tinually reported fresh feats of his felonies. Thisproclamation and reward appeared in the Gazette ofJune 14, 1737, as may be seen in the LondonMagazine for the year, vol. 6th. page 335.He could never throughly leave off visiting hisold haunts ; for the afore-mentioned Magazine men¬tions a robbery committed by him singly” upon'agentleman in his own chaise at Holloway, from whom21he took a considerable sum. The gentleman observedto him, when he attacked him first, that he had reign¬ed long enough, and o^ght to leave of thieving; towhich he replied, “ Pray, Sir, don’t you seem to mindit: my time is not now ; nor you the man to takeme : but tip me the cole or i’ll —He then rodeoff, and passed two gentlemen’s servants, with ledhorses, showing his pistols. Turpin had been fre¬quently known to levy contributions at the-back ofIslington, and in a few hours to rob in a distantcounty.It was remarkable, that, for such a course oftime as from the date of the king’s reward of twohundred pounds for his apprehension, he should stilli go on with his depredations with the most audaciousimpunity, insomuch that it affected the nationalcharacter in the eyes of foreigners, who could nothelp remarking, that the native bravery of theEnglish was supine in bringing such a daring of¬fender to justice. In fact, his feats of equestrainagility Were so suprizing, and his indentity souncertain, that to these circumstances alone maybe^scribed his long evasion from the iron hand ofthe law.He had been at Suson, and drank deep at theCock there. Early in the morning he set off, androbbed a gentleman of fifty guineas and a valuablewatch, in the environs of London. Apprehensiveof being known and pursued, he spurred his horseon and took the northren, road and, astonishing torelate, reached York the same evening, and wasnoticed playing at the bowls in tire bowling-greenwith several gentlemen there, which circumstancesaved him from the hands of justice for that time.The gentleman he robbed knew him to be Turpin,and caused him to be pursued and taken at York :—hst afterwards swore to him, and the horse he rodeon, which was the identical one he arrived upon22in that city ; but on being in the stable, and hiirider at play, and all in the space of four and twentyhours, his alibi was admitted ; for the magistrate*«t York could not believe it possible for one horseto cover the ground, being upwards of one hundredmiles, in so short a spafee. He is reported, uponthis occasion, to have used his horse to raw beefupon the bit in his mouth. Some go so far as tosay he always rode with fowls’ guts tied round it.Be this so or not, it was a race that equalled, ifnot surpassed, the first achievements of turf velocity.Notwithstanding the dreadful scenes of robbery(and sometimes cruelty) in which Turpin wasengaged, he gave several proofs of his possessing aheart capable of feeling for the distresses of a fel- .low creature, and a spirit of generosity. He oncemet a country dealer coming up to market on theEssex road, whom he commanded to stop, and de- >liver his money. The poor man told him he hadbut fifteen shillings and sixpence, which he said wa*his all, and if it was taken from him he should bereduced to absolute want. Turpin, vthose finance*were quite exhausted, answered, there was no timeto be lost ; Ins money he must have; hut at thesame time, desired him to be in a certain part ofNewgate Street on a particular hour next day,with his hat in his hand : and if any person walkedby and dropped any thing into his hat, to take nonotice, but go immediately about his business. Theman accordingly took his station at the time ap¬pointed, and had not been there more than half anhour, before he felt something fall into his hat, andupon opening the small packet, to his'great joy, Hefound it to contain ten guineas.Justice though slow', overtook him at last. Oseof the farmers in Essex, from whom he had stolen& horse, traced the robbery to him, and having fol¬lowed him into Yorkshire, caused him tr> be ap-23prehended and examined before a magistrate. Hewas then fully commited to York Castle for trial.On the rumour that the noted Turpin was aprisoner in York Castle, persons flocked from allparts of the country to take a view of him, anddebates ran very high whither he was the real Turpi*or not. Among others who visited him, was a fellowwho pretended to be well acquainted with thefa nous Turpin, having rode several miles with hima hunting. After regarded him a considerabletil le with looks of great attention, he told the keeperhe would bet him half-a-guinea he was not Turpiath ! horse-stealer; on which the prisoner, whisperingth i turnkey, said, “ Lay him, Jack, and I'll go youha Ives.”When he was on his trial, his case seemed muchto affect the hearers. He had two trials, uposboth of which he was convicted upon the fullestevidence. During his abode in the castle, livetu.nkeys are said to have made more than an hund¬red pounds d)y showing him, and selling him and. his visitors liquors.He was tried at the York assizes, on22d. March,"1638, before, the Hon. Sir Wm. Chappie, Knt.—/iis guilt was clearly proved, and Sentence of deathwas recorded against him.He wrote to his father upon being convicted, touse his interest <o get him off for transportation;but his fate was at hand; his notoiiety causedapplication to be ineffectual.The morning before Turpin’s execution, he gaveSi. 19s. among five men, who were to follow the cartas mourners, with hatbands and gloves, and gavegloves and hatbands to several perons more. Healso left a geld ring, and two pair of shoes and clogs,to a married woman at brough, that he was aquaintedwith, though he at the same time-acknowledgedbe had a wife and child of his own.v v24He was carried in a cart to the place of execution,on Saturday, April 7th, 1739, with John Stead,condemned also for horse-stealing. He behavedhimself with amazing assurance, and bowed to thesnectators as he passed. It was remarkable that,as he mounted the ladder, his right leg trembled,on which he stamped it down with an air, and withundaunted courage looked round about him ; andafter speaking near half an hour to the topsman,threw himself off the ladder, and expired in aboutfive minutes.His corpse was brought back from the gallowsabout three in the afternoon, and lodged at theBlue Boar, ni Castlegate, till ten the next morn¬ing, when it was buried in a neat coffin in St.George’s church-yard, with this inscription R. T.The grave was dug very deep; and the personswhom he appointed his mourners, took all possiblecare to secure the body ; notwithstanding which,some persons were discovered moving off with it,having taken it up, The mob having got scentwhere it was carried to, and suspecting it was to beanatomized went to a garden in which it was de¬posited, and brought away the body through thestreets of the city, in a sort of triumph almost naked,being only laid on a beard, covered with straw, andcarried on four mens’ shoulders, and buried in thesame grave, having first filled the coffin with slakedlime. He confessed to the hangman, that he wasthirty three years of age.FINIS.