\ ■ c?.CHEAP TRACTS, No, 3.A PICTURE OF WAR;BEING AN ACCOUNT OFTHEStorming of BaciajoziAND THERussian Campaign.BUT WISE1 MEN" SAY, AND SURE ’XIS TRUE,THAT WAR IS THEFT, AND MURDER TOO*1826,A PICTURE OF WAR*XIT 8ITf 3AVZ CLKA YLZ V.3.K 38IW TU3.' 3T a 3aiik a4. eT3ai“ tVar’f a game, ■nJtich, uere their Subjects wise,King's would not play at ——”Therk is no subject on which the common sense ofmankind has gone farer wrong than that of WAR : 'This demon of discord, while it bewilders with itsglare, subjects to the greatest privations, not onlythose engaged in it, but all who are not far removedfrom its influence. While mankind are by naturebrethren, mutually dependant on one another (inwhatever quarter of the world they may reside), forthe supply of the necessaries and comforts of life.War destroys the connection—makes those enemieswho should be friends, and entails misery and wantwhere comfost and plenty would otherwise be found.Neither is there any thing in which principle is morer •388C3grossly perverted. The nations t>f Europe arc pro- |f'ffssedly Christian ; but in Europe war has raged un- ;til it has lost its energies, and it is still cultivated asa science, and followed as a profession, although itsprinciples and its practices are as much opposed to ■Christianity as light is to darkness; and there ismuch truth in the assertion, that, were Christiannations, nations of Christians, all war tvould be im¬possible, and unknown among them. Let those whomay doubt this assertion, read attentively the Sermonof Jesus Christ upon the Mount, Matthew v. vi. and jTo correct, however, the ideas of those into whosehands this may fall, who think otherwise, a fewmournful pictures are subjoined, which have been jexhibited to the world during some of the recent fcampaigns ; and that they may not be objected to asthe ideal representations of an over-sanguine philan-' thropy, are delineated in the words of the writers,who were themselves eye-witnesses of, or actors in, ■l the scenes they so affectingly describe; and these we !* shall introduce with the following Picture of War \and its effects, drawn by a modern divine.At the final issue of an obstinate contest, there must fi necessarily be many lives lost on both sides ; de- |struction has then done her worst, and selected the •'objects of her fury; the grave that tells no tales, ji silently receives her myriads of murdered souls •and ungrateful Ambition, forgetting the blood by Ii which victory was purchased, dwells only with rap- ?ture on the glory of her conquests ! Oh ! that the! gieat ones of the earth were but a little more inclined I! t° t-'e reflection ! what conquest was ever worth thei useful lives lost to accomplish it ? what battle was ’ever fought that did not hurry thousands of tremb-i ling and unprepared souls into the presence of their j!' offended Redeemer ?4O God ! when ihou makest inquisition for blood,upon whom w ilt thou lay the guilt of those torrentsof blood, that have been shed for no earthly purposewhatever, but to gratify the detestable and insolentambition of a few poor puny creatures like ourselves.At the conclusion of a spirited and long contestedwar, there is scarcely a cottage to be met with thatdoes not bear visible marks of itsi fruits. In onemiserable hut you may behold, stated at their scantymeal, a mother and her tribe of half-starved children; |but father you will find none; death met him in thefield of battle, and in a moment, made kis children 1,fatherless, and his wife a widow.Here you view an aged couple, bent double withinfirmities and years, and God knows ! but little; capable to sustain a protracted journey through thewinter of life, yet hoping still to see better days, whenthe war is ended, and their children returned. Time, ithat at length brings all things to Ixar, finishes the -war ; but time does not brirg back their children. jTo the artifical advantages of war, I oppose with .confidence, the real losses of mankind : To the pomp I| and splendour of martial heroism, I oppose the i1 orphan’s tears, and the widow’s cry : And to the :| vain and idle boast of the victor, the sad and untime-1 ly fate of the vanquished. When the glories of abattle are the theme of conversation, how seldom arethose remembered who fought and fell in it! Twentythousand of what are called common soldiers, mightperish, and no one concern himself to enquire howthey died, or where they were buried; but let inhu¬man and insolent pride be told, that every one ofthose poor men, w'ho thus fell neglected and forgotten,were as true to their king as faithful to their country,had dispositions as good, and hearts as brave andhonest, and souls as dear, as the greatest and noblest,,warrior among them. How often are the common*i soldiers doomed to 4- Beg bitter bread," while tooj   . .. .. ■ . itl5many who ai e conversant only in the knaveries oiwar, and who without virtue, labour, or hazard, aregrowing rich, as their country is impoverishing, find ,their infamies at length rewarded, by equipages thatshine liie meteors, and palaces that rise like exhalations.In short, war is altogether a system of folly anddevastation, of knavery and ingratitude, where the 1chief actors are the greatest lossers, the most inoffen Isive the greatest sufferers.—Where the least entitledgrow rich upon the spoil of those who serve them, 'and where the most deserving are repaid withpoverty and disgrace.Nay more, where men at the instigation of thosewho glory in their destruction, act a part contrary jTO HUMAN nature, the dictates OP SOUND BKA-jjSON, AND TO THE VERY SPIRIT OF CHRISTIANITY.THE STORMING OF BADAJOZ.Camp before Badajox, 5th April, 1812.>MY DEAR FRIEND,“ We expect to storm Badajoz to-nightin three separate places, so I shall soon seereal service ; and it is expected to be verysharp work unless they surrender, which isnot likely, as General Philiffon is a verydetermined fellow. The .Fmich seem,however, to be short of powder and shot ;j6or perhaps they are reserving it for us to¬night. They fire a shell or bomb aboutevery two minutes, while we keep up a iconstant fire upon the breaches and uponthe town.Alvaon, \51h April.“ I now proceed to give you an accountof the storming of Badajoz.“At eight o’clock at night, on Mondaythe 5th of April, we were formed without ;knapsacks, and in half an hour marched inan indirect line towards the town, understrick orders, “ that not a whisper should heheard!" Part of the 5th division were toattack the town on the south side, whilethe third division, to which I was attached,with their ladders were to scale the citadel,and the rest were to assault the grand breach.“ I procured a soldier's jacket, a firelock,sixty round of ball-cartridges, and was onthe right of my company.“ But, before 1 proceed, I will give yousome information which I have since ob¬tained, to shew you where, and to what,we were going! The governor is allowedto be one of the best engineers in theFrench Service, and he has so proved him¬self ; though our fire was continued at thebreach, he had pieces of wood fastened in¬to the ground, the sword blades and bayo-pets fixed to them, slanting outwards;7behind this a chevaux de,frieze was chainedat both ends across the breach; the beamof it about a foot square, with points on allsides projecting about a yard from thecentre, and behind that was a trench fourfeet wide and four deep. Covering allthese, soldiers were planted eight deep, thetwo first ranks to fire as fast as they could,and those behind to load for them, '1 busprepared, he told the men, “ if they stuckto their posts, all the troops in the worldcould not enter.” Trenches were also dugabout fifty yards round the breach in casewe did get in ! In short the oldest officerssay that no place has been defended with somuch science and resolution in our times.“ On the march all was silent, except thatour cannon kept up their,fire at the breaches,till we got within a quarter of a mile of thetown, when there were two or three fire¬balls thrown from it in different directions,one of them falling close to us, we silentlywhispered to each other, “ Now it willbegin /” As the first division of our troopsapproached the place, the whole town ap¬peared as if it were one mine, every yardthrowing out bombs, cannon-balls, &c. &e.I grape-shot and musket balls flying also inevery direction. On the fire-balls striking! near us, we moved out of the road to the, greensward, but cannon-balls hissed by us3along the grass, and the musquet-balls flewlike hail about our heads ; we immediately*began, therefore, to run forward, till wetwere within about a hundred yards of thejbridge across the first ditch, and then thetballs came so thick that, as near as I can|judge, twenty must have passed in theftspace of a minute, within a yard of my head,!While we were running on the grass,;one or two men dropped every minute, andtwere left behind ; but now they fell faster;}When we came to the bridge which was}about two yards wide, and twelve yards}long, the balls came so thick that 1 had notexpectation of getting across alive. Wetthen began to ascend the hill, and were a sicrowded as people in a fair. We had toicreep upon our hands and knees, the ascent!being so steep and rocky; and whilecreeping my brother-officer received a ballin the brain, and fell dead ! Havflig gotup this rock, we came to some palisadoes,jwithin about twenty yards of a wall; these;we b oke down, but behind them was aditch three feet deep, and just behind thata flat space about six yards broad, andthen a hill thrown up eight feet high.'Hiese passed, we approached a second ditch,and then the wall, which was twenty-sixfeet high, against which we planted six orseven ladders.9“The hill is mueh like that at Greenwich,about as steep and as high. Just as I [passed the palisadoed ditch, there came adischarge of grape-shot from a twenty-fourpounder, directly into that flat space, andabout twelve fine fellows sunk upon theground, uttering a groan that shook the ;oldest soldier to the soul. Ten of themnever rose again, and the nearest of themwas within a foot of me, and the farthestnot four yards distant. It swept away allwithin its range. The next three or foursteps I took, was upon this heap of dead !You read ot the horrors of war, yet littleunderstand what they mean !“When J got over this hill into theditch, under the wall, the dead and wound-ed lay so thick that I was continually |treading upon them. A momentary pauseI took place about the time we reached theladders, occasioned 1 apprehend by the :i grape-shot, and by the numbers killed from ii off the laddersbut all were soon up, and! ^fmed again in the road just over the wall.We now cheered four or five times! Wheni we had entered the citadel, which wasdirectly after we had scaled the wall, noshot came amongst us; the batteries therehad been silenced before we "were over, and' v>lfc formed opposite the two gateways,i with orders to “ let no force break through. ush I was in the front rank!10“ As soon as Philippon heard that wewere in the citadel, he ordered two thou¬sand men ‘ to retalce it at all eve: *8but,when he was told that the whole of thethird division had got in, • Then,’ said he, ,give up the town.’ j“ One battery fired about two hours af¬ter we were in* but those near the breechwere quite in half an hour, part of the fifthdivision whieh got in on the south havingsilenced them. The attack on the breachfailed; it was renewed a second time ; andagain a third time, with equal bad fortune,which made Lord Wellington say, ‘ thethird division has saved my honour andgained the town.“We continued under arms all night.About fifty prisoners Were made in theI citadel. Philii pox withdrew into FortI St. Christoval, and most of the cavalry es-f caped by the Sally Port. By the laws of: war we were allowed to kill all we found,| and our soldiers declared they would do so ;but an Englishman cannot kill in coldI blood! j‘ “ Our regiment did not fire a gun thew hole time. I saw one instance of braveryon the part of the French, just before thegrape shot came ; eight or ten Frenchmenwere standing on the battery. No. 3?, oneof our regiment fired and killed one or twon2of tlicm, but the rest stood like' statues; jthey kept on firing till there was but two ileft, when, one of them being shot, the''other jumped down. ‘“The town is about the size of Northamp¬ton ; all the houses near the breacli werecompletely battered down, and most of the 'others damaged.“ In the morning I returned to the camp,;and by day light retraced my steps of the fnight before. In every place I passed a •great many wounded ; I saw eight or tenshot through the face, and their heads amass of clotted blood, many with limbs ishattered, many shot through the body,and groaning most piteously ! I found thebody of my brother officer on the hill, hispantaloons, sword, epaulet, hnd hat, taken a-way ; the dead lay stretched out in everyform, some had been dashed to pieces bybombs, many had been stripped naked,and others had {been rolled in the dust,with blood and dirt sticking all over them! |“ When I came to the spot where the ;grape-shot first struck us, the bodies lay jvery thick ! but even there they bore no icomparison to the heaps in the breach, where Ithey lay one upon another two or threedeep and many in the ditch were half outand half in the water.n“ I shall now give you my feelingsthrough the whole affair, and I have nodoubt when you read this you will feel simi¬larly. I marched towards the town ingood spirits; and, when the balls began topome thick about me, I expected every onewould strike me: as they increased, I re¬garded them less; at the bottom of the hillf was quite inured to danger, and couldmve marched to the cannon’s mouth. Whenhe grape-shot came, 1 suffered more forhose5who fell than for myself; and, whent first trode upon the dead heaps, it wasflorrible' In the next twenty or thirty;teps I trode upon many more dead, but?ach impression became less terrible!“ You see that I have literally beenwithin a few inches of death,—upon thev'ery verge of eternity ! With you, whentwo or three of your acquaintance die, you;ay, ‘These are av n 1Iced! ! Of three —    -dined that day, one was killed and anotherseverely wounded, yet not a hair of mylead has been hurt! ‘ I am indeed in betterhealth than ever I was in my life.leen very busy!’13THE RUSSIAN CAMPAIGN.few extracts from a Circumstantial narrative ofhe Campaign in Russia, by Eugenk Labaumk,:aptain of the Royal Geographical Engineers, andittached to the fouith corps, of the French army,.•ommanded by Eugene Reauharnois, in that ill*ated and destructive enterprise.L; t i o t iiiPiciure ofSmolensho after being Stormed.“ In every direction we marched overittered ruins and dead bodies. Palaces,ill burning, offered to our sight only walls!.lf destroyed by the flames, and, thickmong the fragments, were the blackenedrcases of the wretched inhabitants whome fire had consumed. The few housesat remained were completely filled by|ie soldiery, while at the door stood theiiseraole proprietor without an asylum,bploring the death of his children, and thejss of his fortune. The churches alojreforded some consolation to the unhappy ' |ctims who had no other shelter. The’.thedral, celebrated through Europe, andeld in great veneration by the Russians,ecame the refuge of the unfortunate beingsho had escaped the flames. Ip thislurch, and round its altar, were seen wholeiimilies extended on the ground. On onede fcwas an old man just expiring, andisting a last look on the image of the14saint whom he had all his life invoked ; |the other was an infant, whose feebles cmthe mother, worn down with grief, was eideayouring to hush, and while she preseted it with the breast, her tears droptjRfast upon it. 11 fj“ the midst of this desolation, tlpassage df the army into the interior of tiltown, formed a striking contrast. On oilside was seen the abject submission of t*conquered—on the other the pride atte idant upon victory: the former had lolltheir all—the latter, rich with spoil, ar tignorant of defeat, marched proudly on |the sound of warlike music, inspiring tljl!unhappy remains of a vanquished popul jtion with mingled fear and admiration.The Night before the Battle.“ Although, worn out with fatigue, vtjtelt not the want of sleep, there were manamong us, so enamoured of glory, and sHushed with the hope of the morrow’s su*cess, that they were absolutely incapable (repose. As they passed the wakeful hourand the silence and darkness of midniglstole 'upon them, while the fires of thsleeping soldiers, now almost extinct, threiltheir last (rays of light over the heaps carms piled around, they, gave themselvdup to profound meditation. They reflecte 1the wonderful events of our strangepedition : they mused on the result of attle which was to decide the fete ot twojwerful empires: they compared tnelence of the night with the tumult of iheorrow : they fancied that Death wssnown'ering over their crowded ranks, but theirkness of the night prevented them fromstinguishing who would be the unhappyetims: They then thought of theirirents—their country—and the uncertain-r whether they should ever see these he¬wed objects again, plunged them into thbeepest melancholy. But Suddenly, beforeay break, the beat of Ithe drum was heard,ie officers cried to arms, the men eagerly-ashed to their different stations, and all,i order for battle, awaited the signal lorIction The colonels placing themselve? inihe centre of their regiments, ordered thejrumpet to sound, and every captain, sur-lounded by his company, read aloud the(allowing proclamation:—I “.Soldikrs—This is the battle so muchtesired by you! The victory depends on; ourselves. It is now necessary to us. Itivill give us abundance, good winter quar-ers, and a prompt return to our coun-ry I Behave as as Austerlitz, at Fried-and, at Witespsk, at Smolensko, — andet the latest posterity recount with16pride, your conduct on this day ; let theitsay of you—‘ He was at the great batt.under the walls of Moscow!’The Taking of a Redoubt.‘ The Viceroy and his Staff, in spite tthe enemy’s tremendous fire remained athe head of Broussikr’s division, folloAve)by the J3th and 30th regiments, Theadvanced on the redoubt, and, enteringby the breast-work, massacred on theipieces, the cannoneers that served their. Prince Kutusofk, who had witnessed thiattack, immediately ordered the cuirassier,i of the guard to advance and endeavour t<retake position. These were the best 0vtheir cavalry '1 he shock between theicuirassiers and ours was therefore terrible' and one may judge of the fury with whichboth parties fought, when the enemy, iiquitting the field, left it completely coveredwith dead.I he interior of the redoubt pre-tsented a horrid picture. The dead wertjheaped on one another. The feeble crien! of the wounded were scarcely heard amklthe surrounding tumult. Arms of every!description were scattered over thefield of battle. The parapets, half de¬molished, had their embrasures entirely de-jstroyed. Their places were distinguished17jjtnly by tbe oannon, the greatest part ofi vhjch were disirountcxl and separated fromi he broken carriages, fh the midst of thisiicene of carnage, I discovered the body oft Russian cannoneer, decorated with threecrosses. In the one hand he held a broken'i;word, and with the other firmly graspedit he carriage of the gun at which he had sovaliantly fought.Retreat of the Wounded.I “The most horrid spectacle (continues ourjauthor) was, the interior of the ravines,jwhere almost all the wounded, who werefable to drag themselves along, had takenirefuge to avoid further injury. These’miserable creatures, heaped one upon(another, and swimming in their blood, ut¬tered the most heart-rending groans. They *frequently invoked death with piercingtcries, and eagerly besought us to put anlend to their agonies.]\[oscow at a distance.j “ While the fourth corps was construc-iting a bridge across the Moskwa, the staff,(about two o’clock, established itself on alofty hill, whence we perceived a thousandelegant and gilded steeples, which, glitteringin the rays of the sun, appeared at the dis¬tance like so many flaming globes. One ofthese globes, placed on the summit of 1I pillar, or an obelisk, had the exact apfpearance of a balloon, suspended in the ail &I Transported with delight at this beautifuli spectacle, which was the more gratifying II from the remembrance of the melanchob jobjects which we had hitherto seen, wncould not suppress our joy ; but, with onjjspontaneous movement, we all exelaimedjlMoscow! Moscow! At the sound of tin IfI wished-for name, the soldiers ran up thij| hill in crowds, and each discovered new!| wonders every instant. One admired dnoble chateau on our left, the elegant archiijtecture of which displayed more tharijI eastern magnificence; another directed hi iji attention towards a palace or a temple; buljI all were struck with the superb picturij| which this immense town afforded. Th*| walls, variously painted, the domes covered| with lead or slates, or glittering with goldI offered the most pleasing variety; whilsjI the terraces before the palaces, the obeli ski| over the gates, and, above all the steeples—jjI really presented to our eyes one of thos«celebrated cities of Asia, which we ha<i|thought had only existed in the creativilimagination of the Arabian poets.I _ ) IV The Cotrflagratim of Moscow.“No cry, no tumlut was heard m thij| scene of horror. Every one found as]19■ndantly sufficient to satisfy his thirst forinder. Nothing was heard hut the crack-g of flames, and the noise of the doorsjit were broken open—and occasionally a•sadful crash caused by the falling in of■Tie vault. Cottons, muslins, and in shortl the most costly productions of Europeid of Asia were a prey to the flames. TheUars were filled with sugar, oil, and vitriol:ese burning all at once in the subterra-wus warehouses, sent forth torrents of:itnes through thick iron grates, and pre-nted a striking image of the mouth of;11. It was a spectacle both terribletid affecting. Even the .most hardenedlinds were struck with a conviction that so■eat a calamity would on some future day,lill forth the vengeance of the Almightypon the authors of such crimes.' “ The hospitals too, which contained,3,000 wounded Russians, now began tourn. This offered a harrowing and dread-lil spectacle. Almost all these miserable■eatures perished. A few who still lin-tered, were seen crawling, half burnt, a-)ong the smoking ruins; and others,xcaning under heaps of dead bodies, en-eavoured in vain to extricate themselvesiom the horrible destruction which sur-mnded them.20In the morning, ffhout the dawriol da^\witnessed the most dreadful and the wtaffecting scenes which it is possible to c*ceive; namely, the unhappy inhahitckdrawing upon some vehicles all that they 1oeen able to save from the conflagration. 31soldiers, having robbed them of their hornthe men and women were slowly andfully dragging along these little carts, .v<[of them contained an infirm mother, otheAparalytic old man, and others the miserQwrecks of half-consumed furniture; childnhalf naked, followed these interesting growAffliction, to which their age is commonlhstranger, was impressed even on their featureand when the soldiers approached them, tkran crying into the arms erf their motherTHE RETREAT.The soldiers, vainly struggling wt!the snow and the wind which rushed up<|them with the violence of a whirlwinjcould no longer distinguish the road, anjfalling into the ditches which bordered]there found a grave, Others pressed «)towards the end of their journey, scarce!!able to drag themselves along, badly mou|ited, badly clothed, with nothing to eiinothing to drink, shivering with coSand groaning with pain. Becomirfselfish through despair, they afi'c'lI'd neither succour, nor even one glance ofty to those who, exhausted by fatigueiid disease, expired around them. How(any unfortunate beings, on that dreadfuly, dying of cold and famine, struggledrd with the agonies of death ! We heardline of them faintly bidding their lastieu to their friends and comrades. Others,: they drew their last breath, pronouncede name of their mother, their wives,;eir native country, which they were neverlore to see. The rigour of the frost soon:ized on their benumbed limbs, and pene-ited through the whole frame. Stretched| the road, we could distinguish only the;iaps of snow which covered them, and‘inch, at almost every step, formed littledulations like so many graves. At theIme time, vast flights of ravens,abandoninge plain to take refuge in the neighbouringrests, croaked mournfully as they passeder our heads; and troops of dogs, whichd followed us from Moscow, and lived•lely on our mangled remains, howled a-und us, as if they would hasten the periodhen we were to become their prey.“ From that day the army lost its couraged its military attitude. The soldier nonger obeyed his officer. The officerparated himself from his general. Thegiments, disbanded, marched in dis^order. Searching for food, they spr«uthemselves over the plain, burning pipillaging whatever fell in their way. 'Illhorses fell by thousands. The camjjand the waggons which had been abfldoned served only to obstruct the wjlNo sooner had the soldiers separated frj|the ranks, than they were assailed b\population eager to avenge the horrorswhich it had been the victim. The Cossaicame to the succour of the peasants, adrove back to the great road, already fillwith the dying and the dead, those of 1followers who escaped from the carnsjmade among them.The Retreat continued.“ Marching from Smolensko, a spectacle the n >horrible was presented to our view. From that pc|till we arrived at a wretched ruined hamlet, at tdistance of about three leagues, the road was entircovered with cannon and ammunition-waggewhich they had scarce time to spike or to blowHorses in the agonies of death were seen at evstep ; and sometimes whole teams,, sinking untheir labours, fell together. All the defiles whichcarriages could not pass, were filled with musk)helmets, and breast-plates. Trunks broken opportmanteaus torn to pieces, and garments of ev<kind were scattered over the valley. At every lifdistance, we met with trees, at the foot of whichsoldiers had attempted to light a fire, but the p jwretches had perished ere they could accomplitheir object. We saw them stretched by doz<|23lund the green branches which they had vainlyfavoured to kinciie; and so numerous we.'-e tii*eihes, that they would have obstructed the road,I ”ot t“e s°ldiers been oiten employed in throw-J them Into the ditches and the ruts.U e can scarcely imagine a picture more deplora-tnar the bivouac of the staff. Twenty-one officers,ounded with as many servants, had crept togethernd a little fire, underan execrable cart-housescarce-.overec. Behind them were the horses ranged inrcle, that they might be some defence against theence of the wind, which blew with fury. Thee so thick that we could scarcely see theires oTthose who were close to the fire, and whoe employed m blowing the coals on which theyked their food The rest, wrapped in their$ses or their cloaks, lay one upon another, asie protection from the cold: nor did they stir,ept to abuse those who trode upon them as they.ed, or to rad at the horses, which kicked when-r a sP;irj- iell on their coats.”>THE RESULT of the campaign.ne r8idCTed as imPerfect sketches,Ll- 1 ? haSt,ly dr.aWn> horrific scenes, whichnguiohed a campaign, that ended in the re-a |ew miserable stragglers out of 400,000rs, who, we are told, had crossed the Niemen™ TnthS hef°rei elat€d> k is probable, withStL cUCCeSSj and bu°yed UP in the delusiveis of tL°f SO°n,re1turnklS> crowned with theWC are informed that*1 by the light of the flames of Moscow that theior penned the account of its conflagrationllof that 1G had t0 Pursue his melancholylof recording passing events, generally at nigh/e a wretched fire, almost benumbed with coldsurrounded with his dead and dying companions!24And can such scenes, to)repetition of which, the openiijof a campaign so naturally leaiibe contemplated with pleasuiNot surely by men possessijthe smallest portion of the nljof human kindness. These cjjbe beheld with complaceiand delight only by dem(\strangers at once to the soifeelings ot humanity, and thjexalted conceptions of supeilintelligences, by which, the ntitude of the heavenly host vjtaught to sing, at the birtHim, WHOSE LIFE AND DOCTR'WERE SO EMINENTLY CALC1TED TO GIVE PEACE TOnations : “Glory to God l jhighest, and on earth peace, ^will toward men.”