.9 e -V iMISFORTUNESFamily of O’DonnelBY HENRY VINCENT, Esq.GLASGOW:PRINTEJ) FOR TJIE BOOKSELLERSIRISH ASSASSIN.f'muMk mm iDark was tlic night, and bleak blow the wind, as.Hfuiltj O’Donncl, tlie mention of whoso name instdtt-read wherever it was heard, paced to and fro with-^ilions steps in the.rfvogt jxf.j* f^lqpdid mjuision, si^anin Sackvillo sh’dbt, in the city of Hubliii ; a dcatlQjsilejice prevailed, and nought but the shrill sighing*the gale oceured to iiitoniipt the gloomy broodingiguislied mind. “Approach! Approach !” he eriin a voicblastotApproach! Approach'if ^ '#iumacTiinationsliave for ever Tlostroyed theami the fainil^f^n/ ^•ofa.tliew^ppdj^. th^lasbranch of that; once proua ancf aisfmguisned cst existuclan finithe catalogue of his crimes, of which thou hast been tprimary cause, by sheathing "his trusty weapon in t,!;blackened heart, in which has been engendered all thbhell-born schemes of mischief tliat have made him twretch ho is!” OCT.At that moment, a person whose outward appear]bespoke him of the'-nriddling order of life, approachand ran quickly up the $kw stone stejis that led to tl:ail-door, before which. jO’Donml had been anxiqys >watcliing. He had lifted life hand to tho knocker, aiwqs about to give the a^cuktomed rap, when he wseized by the sinewy arm of d’Donnel, wlio iustw iplunged a poignardwino his side, and exclaimed wjsavage exultation : “ Tuat, to thy heart, thou fiend >boll, and by this,” repeating his thrusts, “ bo the moft tof murdered innocence appeased ! A hollow groan w <■the only sound that escaped tljo stranger, who fell subs )loss against tho railings. O’Dotmcl contemplated tdreadful work for a few moments with a steady gai i,and tlion directing his impious eyes toward* heaven,^M.turned thank$ for the opportunity given him of perpe¬trating the horrid deed. Tlie sound of voices within tholiouse now filled his guilty bosom with alarm, and. withihe swiftness of lightning, he flew towards the country.iacruif o’l.ir not oni Bormoi oil ,/nal ovoioo owm ontTowards the latter end of the summer of 1793, oUrhero arrived at his eighteenth year, a season when theheart of youth is most susceptible Of the softer impres-hrions. As ho was riding one evening at this period,ip through the lands in the vicinity of liis father’s estate,!"‘’oppressed by fhc heat, he entered under the refreshingshade of a neighbouring wood, which clothed the sidesof a steep mountain that reared its head before him.The appearance of the spot was bcwitchingly picturesque;f the verdure of the meadows, the grouping of the cattle,v ith liere and tlicre a cottage embosomed in the foliageJ'tef’t'be wood, and the varying shrubs which climbed along| the occasional rugged projections of the crag, all tend-fed to heighten the beauty of the scene. The sombreI shades of night were fast approaching, the setting sunpmilbd with a farewell lustre on the summits of the hills,/and the water of a neighbouring stream, which flowedllfowly over its sandy bed, received a deeper gloom fromJxfye.leWthesiing shadows of the mountains. The nightClosed in ere he could tear himself from the enchaiitb>gregion, which he promised to visit once more on theensuing morning.r 'Thp succeeding day was excessively hot; but as efen-,i 'ing approached, nature again assumed her mellow co¬louring, and again did Arthur dwell with rapture on thov scenes ho had viewed with so mnch pleasure the nightj before. lie entered the wood, and pursued a path Tnfttq ran in an oblique direction, gently winding pp ihe lull;it was soft as moss, and of a vivid green, and through■many little openings in the wood, the crags, the adjacentTillage, and tho meandering stream were seen to great^J^dvantage. Ho had not proceeded far. before a neatywhite cottage, built on a little level, on the side of a hill.4attracted his notice. There was an air of taste and simplicity in every thing around it, which excited his utmostcuriosity with respect to its inhabitants, of whom, fromthe scene before him, he formed the most romantic ideasIt was placed in that situation, which, of all others, wa'the most picturesque ; that is, its point of elevation wa?not too great for the landscape. From the bottom of esmall lawn which spread before it, the wood graduallyfell to the margin of the river, and a number of giganticoaks covered the hill behind it nearly to the summit, ?broken line of moss-hung crags, however, still peepingbeyond. Against the front of this cottage grew an okwoodbine, whose branches, mingling with each other,crept round four neat sash windows, that glowed as fixcifrom the reflection of the sun. While he stood silentlyadmiring the beauty of the scene, the door of the cot¬tage was opened, and a young woman, clothed with ele¬gant but artless taste, stepped out upon the green; onher arm there leant a man of very interesting figure, andrather stricken in years, who, after looking round himwith an air of satisfaction, smiled with parental fondnesson his fair companion, and gave to heaven, with cheer¬ful piety, his grateful thanks for the blessing he enjoyedThus was Arthur situated, and having gratified hisfancy with the scenery around, was about to return ; butno sooner did the two figures appefir before him, thanhis best and sweetest feelings were called into action :the country assumed a more enchanting hue, the sunshed a mellower and mpro delicious tint, and every ob¬ject seemed heightened with a pathetic glare. An in¬telligence the most expressive sat on the features of theyoung woman,—an intelligence so divine, so mild, scgraceful, that Raphael might have studied it with rap ;ture. She had on a gown of white cotton, and roundher waist there was a green sash ; her hair of a nut browncolour, hung down loosely upon her shoulder, and from ,her left arm depended a small basket. The person whs i'leaned upon her right arm was dressed in a scarlet mill-.tary coat; his countenance was strongly marked martial,but at the same time mingled with much benignity ; bisforehead was bold and open, his eyes full and dark, his, eye brows black and thick, his nose aquiline, and his chin..rather prominent; he had a staff in his hand, and al-; though apparently possessing vigour and health, howalked with difficulty, from an injury in his left leg.| Arthur had till now remained concealed behind someI trees ; but stepping forward to continue the objects ofhis admiration in view, a favourite dog, who ran by thciiI, side, observed him, and beginning to hark with vehc-i: mence, they turned round. He found himself discovered,i and advancing towards them, begged they would pardon1, his obtrusion, with that suavity and dignity of manners,of which he was so capable. They smiled at his apology,ij and the old man with much good nature, told him he■t was welcome to his farm ; it gave him pleasure, he said,4 to see he admired his situation, and added, if he could■: bear to saunter no faster than himself, he would showi; him some parts well worth seeing, and which probably’I had escaped him.An agreeable conversation soon took place, into which, the amiable Maria, for such she was called, entered with4the most frank and bewitching simplicity, speedily cou-’ vincing our hero, that her heart and her understandingTwere as lovely as her form. As they chatted together,fcthe reserve natural to strangers wore off, and Arthur• diaving expressed much satisfaction, mingled with someSuriosity, as to their mode of life, the old man with groatffability told him his short but melancholy tale. Hislame (he said) was Farrell, and having at an early periodf life chosen the profession of arms, by his assiduity and.ttention he soon recommended himself to the notice ofus colonel, who rewarded him with promotion to a lieu¬tenancy. Shortly after he married the daughter of a^clergyman : his connubial joys were, however, but short,jrs his regiment was ordered to Germany in a few days ;K' ^hither his too-affectionate wife, who was then pregnant,6insisted on accompanying him. The army was sooior&OTod to the field, and ere long the dreadful eonfusof war burst nround them. Still, however, his wife followed him with persevering attention. One mornihis regiment, with others, was Ordered to Osterid, ai.having taken an affectionate farewell of his Maria, hmarched with a palpitating heart to a scene of carnage jband blood, from wlieube he was soon carried back to the tcamp in consequence of a wound he received in the leftknee by a'AhWfc<6t ball.The anguish of his amiable wife may well be conceiv¬ed on his return ; but resisting the feelings of nature, sisoon exerted herself in preparing the necessary comf'o!for his-unhappy situation. Those exertions were, how¬ever, too severe for her tender frame, already weaken-by a succession of hardships. In a few days she becameunwell, aiid was Confined to her bed, where shortly aftei Vshe was delivered of a daughter.A few mornings after the birth of his daughter, whenthe health and strength of his consort seemed fast re•turning, he awoke, and called to her to know how she lifelt herself. To his first call he received no answer; fee irepeated his erics, but still a death-like silence prevailed, eAlarmed at this unusual circumstance, he called aloud tfor a soldier’s wife who attended 'his Marta, She soonfcientered, and by her masters desire, approached the bed 'iiof her mistress. lint, oh God ! w1k> can describe thesensations of the lieutenant, when, on the clothes being :turned down, he observed his beloved Maria bathed in tblood, and his infant dang liter immersed in the purple <stream ! Notwithstanding his dangerous situation, he iitottered from his bed, and then threw himself on the iconch of her he adored ; where, overcome by the horror Ict the scene, he became senseless. While in that situ-1t»fiou, the cries of the attendant attracted some of the tsoldiery to the spot, who, on examining the body of Mrsbarrel, discovered, that, during the night, a random shot bfrom tho enemy had entered {Tie tent, and with it came i?tlie shaft of death to the unfortunate Maria, ft fro jayjafileep with her child in her arms. From tlr'0 fleep'mfife, she sunk to tliat of eternity, and breathed no more.I,The infant Maria, who had been natnedaftprlidr mothS-,Iwas. however, unhurt, and was consigned to the eanrof|b soldier’s wife, who had buried her own child, and wlioher ’‘fijhdpr7evo gemfan affectionate 'foster-motherdi I)toihecamotebargeThe unfortunate lieutenant, on awaking to ^lic 'hortbrhis situation, became almost distractoij, and madeseveral attempts to terminate his existence, but was hap¬pily prevented by his attendants. Some months frow“Hpsed, during which the wound in the kites' assumedfavourable appearance, and in a 'short time die Was.again enabled to join the ranks. During the remainderi*f the campaign, be distinguished himself on seyeralOccasions, and finally received a captain’s commission ,shortly after which his regiment was ordered home. Onibis arrival in England, the wound in-his knee again'brokeforth, and after in vain struggling against its obstiriacy,nhe was obliged to retire from the service tm half-pay ;„and having sought for a cheap but comfortable residence,he at length met with his presenoottab-e, where, blessed((tenth tire dutiful ami abolition of his lovely4Maria, nothing on thus « • rave ho thought could'jjpid tliat liisteoilojianio'URU ’ lo 'guih-rT( They had by this time reftajed tire cottage, When Ar-fthur would have taken his leave, but Farrell begged howould step in and grace his humble shed. He couldmot refuse ; there was an air of gentleness and sincerityiabout him, that would not admit of a denial; be stepped^therefore into a very neat little parlour, where, SittingJdown, the worthy host desired Ids daughter to' bringdsome of tire best wine; “if you can excuse,” he said,what an old soldier can .afford, you are welcome.1’ fd'0i Arthur was much affected, and without a word,diivt*.Atm tardy stretched put his hand, which Farrel ceiied^with warnrth^Htley VBfpewjjetlt,1 -Miss Farrell uiiteriidx—ehc smiled, f»nd throwingbine eyes upon Arthur, offered him wine, lie tookglass—his hand trembled—he drank her health ; ithe thought, the most delightful wine he had ever tas—he praised hpr skill, and she blushed, “1 am gladpleases you,” she said. At this moment, turning rounto speak to her father, the bright hilt of a sword whichung over the chimney-piece, attracted the attentionArthur.FarrcH observed it, and rising from the chair, took >|down ; he drew it from the scabbard ; “ This,” cried hiwaving it round his head, “ this, sir* was once my onlfortune—my only friend.—With this, and much goo>service has it done me,'—with this, I have known tbday, when, shrinking from the lightening of its edgef the foes of Ireland have retired.”The night was fine, the moon had arisen, and sweethillumined the river and distant mountains ; all, excepthe jnightingale, was mute ; and struck by a scene siaccordant with his feelings, it was late ere he reache'home, where his mother was anxiously awaiting his return. jadAfter supper, he related to his affectionate parent thlittle adventure of the evening: and she, with the warmtlusual to her on such occasions, participated in all thfeelings of her son, and enamoured of the glowinjpicture he had drawn, she promised to visit Farrell andhis amiable daughter on the ensuing morning. (During the whole night, Arthur could not divest him -1self of the idea of Maria, whoso bewitching figure wasconstantly in his mind. He rose with the lark, and im¬patiently awaited the rising of his mother. He was sooncalled to breakfast, at which he scarcely eat a mouthful,and at eight o’clock the carriage was ordered, and ladyO’Donnell, accompanied by her son, were driven to thefoot of the hill on which the cottage of Farrell steed,where they alighted and walked up the path which Ar¬thur had taken the preceding night They soon reached9tLe colUg*, and found Farrell and his amiable daughterat breakfast, who rose with some marks of confusion attliis unexpected visit; but soon recovering their wontedsuavity, they welcomed their guests with genuine satis¬faction. !j cheM io Tinned ojif ifjhir ifoinieMaria now Imsiod herself in removing the breakfastthings, and in a few minutes a general and animated* conversation ensued. From the house they removed toi the lawn, and from thence surveyed the surrounding| prospect, with which lady O’Donnol was infinitely de¬lighted ; and not less was she delighted with her hostand his lovely daughter, in whose conversation she ex¬perienced the utmost satisfaction. Slie seeretly resolved,however, to give them some substantial mark of her es- -teem, and for that purpose invited them to her house onthe following day. The invitation was most gratefullyaccepted, and amongst tlvose who felt particular pleasureon the occasion, Arthur was foremost. , n;On the next day Captain Farrell and his daughterarrived at the great house, as it wgs .called by the neigh¬bouring peasantry ; they were received at the gate bv1 Arthur with the sincerest satisfaction, and on beingconducted to the parlour, they experienced from ladyO’Doimel, all that delicate and hospitable attention4which formed a principal feature in her character. They(amused themselves during thp morning in exploring the((beautiful and extensive grounds in the vicinity of the(house ; and after diiuier, Arthur observing bis mother• itaad Captain Farrell in dose conversation, begged the((Savour of Miss Farrell’s company to the garden, where'he promised to show her all the beauties, which were sorichly and abundantly scattered in all directions. Sheillingly accepted the invitation, and in a few secondshey entered the garden. Arthur ottered his arm to hisufair companion, which she tremblingly accepted.While examining one of the hot-houses, they werebserved by M‘Pherson, the steward, who approachedand ottered his services to explain the process attendingW‘pfeMs. Arthur, however, deuirouv* (#' b&iig tltome, in rather a haughty tone, toM him his-ViOiilJ be disperised with.• M*l>her?'on mide his bow and retired, but was sostruck with the beauty of Maria, that, after having re-trented tb sdme distarice, he stopped to admire her.$dh-being: aware who she was. he went among theservants to enquire, and at len^tti ascertained 'from thefbotman,’:whq had accompanied the'’carriage that con¬vened lady <D’Donnel and her son to the cottage on thepreceding day,■that she was the daughter of CaptainFan-ell, a-poor half-pay officer, who had dined with hidmistress on that day, and wlk) was thetl- in the drawing- ?room.'Ehe suspicions of M'Fherson were new roused, andnot approvihg of the apparent cldse intimacy'betweenhis young master and Maria, he returned to the gardenin search of them, resolved to watch their actions. liesoon traced the happy pair to a snmmer-house, whitherthey had retired from the heat of the sun.At the moment M'Pherson, who secreted himself he-hi-nd some shrubs, arrived, Arthur was holding the fairhand of Maria, and in an' enraptured tone expressing'the impression she had rtiade on Ins heart.'.Maria, a stranger to the- wiley ways of tlUe world, asfreely confessed that she felt for him the affection of asister. Arthur instantly caught her in his arms-, and inan ertatic embrace, rowed eternal love, and- she made areciprocal promise, and the mutual bond was sealed bya thousand innocent and Cddearing kis«es. The enrap¬tured pair tkiW pWK'oeded to the house, ignorant of thespa- they had had on their actions, and each delightedwith the rrssin’anoe received from- the othtfl't looked for-«*Rr<l-wit)i coTrfnlinier to-future Idrss: On eiiteriijg tlmdrawing roonh tea was served up* anti shortly after,-Lady 0?Ponnel ordered her carnage to convey her hum¬ble’but admired friends to their cottage. On the wayhome, Gapt. Farrell informed Maria, that their benevo-11tent friend, bad, in the most delicate and' gefterotta Wihsisted on Ins acceptance of an annmtj during Hfe, urt1100 a-year. The gi-atitud'e of Maria at tlritected information, knew no boundsshe shed fcftrs oftfection, and spoke in terms of enthusiasm of thefaniilyioy had left, for whom she innocently observed, she cn-'••rtained'an affection almost' as strong as for her father.M'Pherson, after* Arthur and Maria had left'the gaf-eft*, came from his hiding place, resolving in hit ofmnind fliat the intentions and wishes of his younginastcri! itcttrld never he accomplished. This determination hotfpptcd from a twofold reason : first, because he knew'InvOftld he m direct opjSosr'tinn to the will of Sir Neale;md next, because he felt a desiro for Maria himself,i!5nC'eiving that her father,'would accept, with avidity,;ny proposition he should make, holding, as he did, amrative and advantageous situation, which Ins owndshonesty rendered doubly profitable/,ii lit furtherance of this design, lie went on the enshingliorning to the cottage, and havHre explained from/hence he came, he was received by Capt, Fafrell withhe greatest cordiality.Maria so6n afterwards entered the room1, and instant-b recognized M'Pherson ; who addressed Iter with greatspect. There was something in Ids appearance nottlculated to elicit respect, and she returned his civilityi'tht distant rCsefVe. This, howevei1, did not deter hinihrs Jrtit^se ; and having taken Ids departure for'(feat time, he returned in a few days,'artd begged a pri-inte conversation with Capt. Farrtrll, who ipadily coris*add with his wishes. The insidrtOirs Scot their opbneds mind, and made propositions for the hand of Maria.Captain Fan-ell in answer, observed, that to (he con¬ation with Mr M'Pberson he had not the slightestijt'trtion ; hut, as he was resolved hover to control tlioiclinatiops of his daughter in the choice of a partnerr life, he fnnst refer all suitors to herself, andwhatevci' heVdetermiftation', he would willingly accede to'itWith this answer M'^heracn was obliged to be con4tent, although he did not argue favourably of his suc¬cess with Maria, whose secret attachment to Arthur hefiwell knew.To Maria, therefore, he directed his constant attention,(1bringing her presents of the most delicious fruits from;the garden of Sir Neale, and using every other expedient |,in his p0(wer to gain her respect, but without success.He generally so timed bis visits, as not to meet with .Arthur, who became a constant attendant at the cottage,and who, on being informed by Maria of the presump- ,tuous intentions of M‘JPherson, was outrageous, andcould scarcely be prevented from sacrificing him to hi*anger.►Several months now elapsed, in which the passion ofji.Arthur and Maria attained additional strength, and could »scarcely be concealed in the presence of lady O’Donuel, |on her occasional visits to the cottage.While things were thus situated in Donegal, Sir Nealewas-advancing in his political career in Dublin with rapid |steps ; his talents attracted universal admiration, and atlength raised him to the highest office under the viceroy,who entertained for him the most profound esteem. Al- ;though thus successful in his views, ho did not neglect;the interests of his son, for whom he at length procured Ia situation immediately under his own auspices. Of thiscircumstance he dispatched intimation to lady O’Don¬uel, directing that Arthur should be sent w ithout delay.On the arrival of the packet containing this informal ,tion, lady O’Donnel felt peculiar pleasure, as she thoughther beloved Arthur had now arrived at an age when he .should know something of the world, and enter into-.that career which his father had follow'ed with so much .honour to himself, and satisfaction to his superiors.While reading her husband's letter, Arthur entered—he had just left his Maria.“ Come, my Arthur,” said lady O’Donnel, “ I haveigood news for you; your father has procured for you a13| situation in tlic cattle, which 1 tmst will be the first step(towards that distinction I am convinced vour talents andperseverance trill acquire.”Had a clap of thunder rolled over the head of Arthur,I he could not have been more alarmed than at this com¬munication. “What!” said he to himself, “to leave myMaria, to quit all those innocent pleasures which 1 haveso long enjoyed, and to embark in the troubled,scenes ofthe political world! Oh God! how wretched is my. fate !”“ Still,” continued he, “ my father must he obeyed : hisr| ambitious temper will never brook a refusal, and howeveri inconsistent with my own inclinations,. Ids will must hej my law.”Having finished his soliloquy, during which his amiableI mother regarded him with astonishment, he raised his{head, and in a hurried tone, expressed his readiness tocomply with his father’s wishes. Ho then left the room,ii and proceeded with a quick pace to impart the gloomy-I]news to Maria, whose anguish exceeded all consolationI for a considerable time.To describe the wretchedness of Maria is beyond ourpower; suffice it to say, her wretchedness went far beyondthe hounds of common lamentation, and approachednearer to distraction than the sorrow of sanity.Arthur at length tore himself from her arms, and re¬turned homo to make preparations for his journey, whichwas to commence the ensuing morning at an early hour.It would be needless to describe the delight felt byM‘Pherson on receiving instructions to prepare thetravelling equipage of Arthur ; his hopes were renewedtowards Maria, and he trusted by his own wily machina¬tions at length to be able to gain the consummation ofhis wishes in that quarter.At the dawn of day, Arthur after taking a most affec¬tionate leave of his mother, set out for the capital, attended by a trusty servant, and in a few days reachedhis father’s house, in Sackville Street, where he met ai most welcome reception.fi!114W« must rtow {>s?s over tihvee yoar^ of om liero’*' lifs, j;during which he frequently visited the seat 6f ids ances¬tors, and as frequently renewed liis rows of fidelity to hi?Maria with redoubles! ardour, for whom his love grewmore ardent, and in whose presence alone lie enjoyed 1real happiness. During that-period M'Pherson was con->timially urging his suit, but was invariably treated withindignation. Still, however, Ite did not despair, and jfelt a confident hope his purposes would yet be attained,from the knowledge he had of Sir Neale’s ambitiousviews for Ids sonArthur had now arrived at the age of manhood, and !began to think of some expedient to induce his father tctagree to hie connection with Maria. Several plansoeem'ed to hi? mi ml, but they Wbrc all rejected as futile.While thus undetermined, efle morning, towards thelatter end of the summer of 1796, his father desired tohave some private conversation with him, and after aprefatory address, called his mind to the necessity offorming an alliance suitable to his rank, observing atthe same time, that, from some hints thrown out by* an.ohh’mail of distinguished eminence, who had a lovelydaughter, and with whom Arthur was well acquainted,he would bo received as a welcome suitor. To thisharangue) Arthur, from his confusion, could give nodecisive answer, he stammered out his disinclination fora matrimonial connection at so early a period of his life,and hoped his father would give him time to consider ofthe proposition. Sir Neale laughed heartily at his Sou’?modesty, as he termed it, and jokingly desired him totake care that tt mere successful candidate did ; notjockey him.In a few weeks Arthur again returned to the country,and finding there was little ehance of bringing hk fatherto’ his terms, he came to the desperate resolution ofprivately marrying his Maria- through the medium of aRoman Cfitsbefio priest. Chnekferablo difficulties* arosein accomplishing this object; but: to the infinite ddiglW15: o# onr hero* that happj, happy hour amv«U wheu hit! pressed the object of his adoration to his beating hearti aa his partner through the cares aaid ricissitudfe of liftsMaria, for whom Lady O’Donnel felt a parental afifeti-Itiony became an almost constant yi&itant at the “ greathouso,” not unfrequently stopping there by the weekitogether. i:.. a tr J<: .au>'An event, however, too soon occured, which seemedi as a sort of warning to the miseries which are to followOne line summer’s evening, as the gentle Maria was re*, turning to her father’s cottage, sho had soarely got out:1 qf sight of the wall of O’Donnel park, when she was met| by M'Fheraon, whose disorderly appearance evidently; slvowed he had been drinking. Up came up to herf anili in a brutal tone, asked whither she was goifcg? “ Home,,i! Mr M'Pherson,” said Maria. “ Rest yon here then, young;illady,” said Jie, f‘ for I’ve got a few words to say to you.i) “ It is getting late, Mr M‘Pliers on,” returned Maria, “ I(must proeeed home.” “Ne’er you mind your haute,,young lady,” continued he, “we dinna part sae easily,you man gie me a kiss.” Having said this he rudelyi caught her round the neck, and with his impious lipsimprinted an odious kiss on her cheek. She wasextremelyi alarmed, and struggled to get from his grasp, lu vain,([however, did she exert herself ; ho throw her oh theI ground, and thrusting his hand into her bosom, begatn toij take tho most indecent liberties. She now could scarcelyi speak from terror, and in a smothered voice she beggedhim to desist, 1. She used'her utmost strength tq get fromhis hold ; hut all in vain. She shrieked with violence,but alas! her cries were not heard.. At length tho villainsucceeded in stopping her-cries by. holding her petticoat,whiifh he ha«l brutally raised, over her mouth, ami wasabout to accomplish his vile intentions. When \j» was-alarmed by the lifeless inaimer in which his vinfortunatql victim lay; he uncovered her face, and he feared be Imdimurdered tho unfortunate innocent. Too soon, however,i his fee** wore removed; the colour returned td tlue-cheek*of Maria, and with it the fierce desires of the base )iM'Phmon. Again did lie seize hor in bis accursed |arms and again did she repeat, though faintly, her strug- i>gles, and her ejaculations for assistance—wliich, ere her jfinfernal assaulter had triumphed, through the interveu-1tion of all-seeing Providence, arrived on the spot, and at #a moment when an instant’s delay might have been fatalto the chastity of Maria, the villian received a blow froma cutlass, which deprived him of all sensation, and almostin the same instant the almost senseless innocent wasraised to the aft'ectionate arms of her parent, who havingset out from the cottage to meet his beloved daughter,was alarmed by her first cries, aud with as much speedas his lameness would permit, proceeded to her assistance,whicli happily he was enabled to give in time to preserveunsullied the only comfort of his existence. Most for¬tunately, his stick having been mislaid, he brought withhim his trusty sword, on which he leaned to support histottering frame, and which enabled him to bestow a de¬served chastisement on the monster M‘Phorson.Conceiving he had killed the impious ruffian, he pro¬ceeded slowly on his way towards the cottage, withdifficulty supporting Maria, who could not utter a wordfrom agitation, lie at length arrived at home, and con¬signed to the care of her foster-mother, who had alwayslived with him, his tender charge. On the ensuing !morning Maria told her unhappy parent her little tale,and they together returned thanks to Heaven for her hap¬py escape; while Captain Farrell expressed his intentionof going to Lady O’Donnel to inform her of the miscreantshe had in her service.We must now return to the villain M'Phcrson, whosoon recovered from the effects of the blow he had re¬ceived, which was attended witli no dangerous symptoms.On rising from the ground, he observed a small casketlying a few paces from him, which he picked up, and onexamining its contents, discovered the certificate of Ar¬thur and Maria’s marriage, together with their wedding17ring, and two or three notes written by Arthur, in whichhe addressed Maria as his wife. In a moment thediabolical mind of M'Pherson suggested a plot, whichwould revenge him on both Maria and his'young master,and enable him to leave Donegal, which he would beconstrained to do. He proceeded directly home, andgoing by a private way to his own room, packed up allthose valuables he had been enabled to collect duringhis service, which, besides friany ptirloined, and lodgedin a bank in Dublin, amounted to a very considerablesum. Having done this he took horse afid proceededdirectly for the capital, taking with him the casket con¬taining the proofs of Arthur’s njarriage. In two daysand nights he reached the house of Sir Neale, to whomhe introduced himself irt the most abrupt manner, apolo¬gising for his presence, by saying that nothing hut hisregard for the family of the O’Donnells could inducehim to come in person so great a distance. Withoutfurther circumlocution he then placed in the hands ofSir Neale the Casket which he had brought with him.Sir Neale looked with astonishment at M'Pherson.then at the casket. “ What,” said he, “ am I to under¬stand from this?” “Open ye the casket,” repliedM'Pherson, “and you will be informed.” Sir Nealeopened the Casket, and took from it the papers it con¬tained. The first of those that he examined was a shortnote from Arthur to Maria, couched in the following“ Dearest Maria,“ The moments seem ages until I can againijwress to my heart my ever-adored wife. A few hours(and I shall bo with rou. Oh! Maria, you know notsow 1 love you. Scarcely can I exist hut in your pre¬sence. I send this by Henry, lest you should think thetjiime long ere I visit the cottage.Adieu,Your Arthur,18IAfter .his passion was oyer, he desired M'Phersoa toive him a}i account of the circumstances wliich led toiis son’s marriage.M'Pherson readily complied, reciting all the facts ofthe progressive passions of Arthur aud Maria which cameto his huGwledge, aud eoncludo4 by observing, that, asthe parties had been married by a Roman .CatholicPriest, they might be parted, such a junction not beingdeemed legal according to the laws of the ProtestantChurch. . .. „} • j} niSir Neale listened to the maddening tale with dread¬ful sensations, and on its termination his rage knew nobounds. Ho cursed himself, his wife, his sou, ah theworld, and seizing M'Plierson by the throat nearlystrangled him, observing, that if he had done-ins duty, bytransmitting an account of the first interview betweenArthur and Maria.in the surnmer-house. all might havebeen well. “ \Vbat do I say ?” continued ho, “ all shallbe well if I wash from the face of the earth, in tlmirewngore, all those who have thus conspired to sully the. bloodof the O’PouueUs.” He then rang the bell, ordered hispost-carriage, and drove towards Donegal.Arthur was .a short distance from town with a friend jbut returning the nest day, lie learnt the arrival <sfM'Pbcrson, and the sudden departure of lus father. .Atfirst lip was alarmed lest any .sudden ilhiess of his itjvpred ’mother had caused his fatlmr so abruptly to leave town jbut then he conceived, if that was the case, some infpiVmatiou on the subject -would have been communicatedto him. Racked with uncertainty, he endeavoured tofind M ‘Pherson, but his searches were vain. His anxietywas however terminatedi by the arrival of a short letterfrom his faithful servant Henry M‘Guire, to whom alonehe entrusted the secret,of Ids,marriage with Maria, andto whose special care he recommended her .when ho lastquitted Donegal, charging :bim to watch, oyer her withthe eye of a protector. ,.1,^Tbo letter w&s.fw follow* :Donegal, Sunday niglit.My ever-respected master, I have only time to exhortKjou to proceed iliitlter without delay. The villainiM'-Pherson after the most diabolical attempt to forceimy young mistress to his odious .purposes, in which Uptwas happily prevented by her father, 1ms gone to Dublin,i»»d informed Sir N.eale of your marriage, who has arrrived here in the most dreadful passion ; he has lockedyour mother in the vault below the left wing, and youridear junfortunate.-wjfe, who was on a visit to tie);,,bp hastreated with unparalleled brutality, turning her out ofdoors in a rainy night, and even striking her some .severeblows iji tbe heat of his anger. My poor lady is now atMurphy’s cabin extremely ill, attended by ber unhappy[father, whose cottage was burned down last niglit Cpme'swift as you can, as I fear my young mistress is ineat danger, and raws continually of you. In haste.When Arthur had received this agonising letter liehad just returned from riding. His agitation for sometune was very great. At length he rang for a servantfydioju he desired to get his.hprse iq the door in a moment,aud to fix the travelling holsters witli a brace of loaded.^pistols to the saddle, as he was,going a long journey.F While the unliappy Arthur is winging his speed to thediouse of his forefathers, we will return to Sir ,Neale whoarrived at his estate cm the afternoon of the third day,bloated with contending passions of injured pride andinveterate hatred towards all who ho conceived wereprivy to the conduct of his son. Amongst others includ¬ed in the curses he was incessantly venting, his amiable(wife was foremost. To her lie attributed much of his.supposed dishonour, and on her imioccut head ho deter-i mined to take the most signal revenge. On his pn-Itering the hall of the chateau, the first person ho metYour devoted servant.llnxnv M‘ Gct&E.20with was lady O’Donnell, she was leaning on the arm cMaria, who was spending a few days with her adorebenefactress. Without a moment’s hesitation he seizethe unfortunate Maria by the hair, dragged her rounthe hall, kicked her with the most execrable brutality, an jacted like a mad man. His wretched victim soon bO'came senseless, and on lady O’Donnell's flying to hej.assistance he dashed her from him with horrible exucrations, and then fastening on his terrified wife, whcould only ascribe the husband’s conduct to m ft duesbe drew her towards a trap-door, which led to thcellars beneath the house, and opening it, threw her dow ithe stairs, and then following, lifted her lifeless bod Ifrom the dark ground, and deposited it within a cell ,Having done this, he returned to the hall at the momenwhen the exhausted Maria was returning to a sense oher wretchedness. Perceiving her rise from the cold flag ihe again ran to her, and with refinement of cruelty, h. jtlirow her out on the gravel walk in the midst of a hcawshower df rAiii, and shut the door with a thundering clap .The worthy Captain Farrell was entertaining a fevfriends at the cottage. In the midst of their convivialit’a knock at the door disturbed them. Ctiptain Parrelarose and opened it; hut, oh God! who can describe th* I.horror of his feelings, when his lovely Maria fell into hi.!arms drenched with rain and void of all sense. She wa:seized with the most dreadful fits, which quickly sueceeded each other. Her agonised parent carried heito her apartment, w^iere she continued in the most .melancholy state, and at length the premature birth o:a child unfolded her unhappy secret, and gave to the,heart of Farrell a pang of wiiich he never got the better t,Towards the dose of the evening the shrieks of the iservant girl attracted the attention of Farrell, he ran toascertain the cause, and was soon woefully convincedof his' eminent danger. The outhouses were all in one ,mass of flame. Swift as his enfeebled limbs would per-mit did Ire fly to the chamber of bit daughter, and21!.tm»ppi|i'? ncr in ft coverlid lie carried her out upon theiJjiwu. 'J’hero did lie return thanks to God for her}escape. The people of the village alarmed at the sight,rushed to the hill to give them assistance, and amongst! the foremost camo Murphy. To sec the situation of! Maria was enough for him ; he hastily conveyed her tohip humble cabin, where he consigned her to the careof his wife.Scarcely was a letter sent off to Arthur when theangel of death threw the shadow of his wings over theIlcabin of Murphy, and the eyes of the gentle, the mur¬dered Maria, were closed in eternal darkness.When Farrell’s grief was somewhat abated ho arosetfrom the bed and exclaimed, “Farewell, my Maria,I thou that wert the solace of my age, farewell 1On the third morning after the decease of the angelic* Maria, the villagers were assembled on the green op¬posite poor Murphy’s cabin, and on their faces dwelttithe sentiments of pity and regret. In the bed-room of■the cabin was placed the coffin of Maria, and beside itknelt the unfortunate Farrell. It was then carried outupon the green, where half a dozen young womendressed in black supported it, whilst ;i£ many moreralkod two and two before, and the like number behind.They entered the church, and the ceremony com-imenced. A calm resignation was apparent in thecountenance of Farrell. The service had proceeded ait! ’onsiderable way, and the corpse was made ready t°no laid in the earth, when suddenly the foldeu doors of<;he church flew open, and a young man rushed vehe¬mently in, exclaiming. “ Where is my Maria ? I will seei:ier once more! I come to die with thee my love!;; Stand off ye inhuman wretches and give me way!” lierlien broke through the crowd, and seeing the coffin-Started some paces backwards. “ Help me, sjie is ram-lercd! my gentle love is murdered.” Ho becamempeechlcss with agony,jnc was torn from itIt was with the utmost difficultybut at length having liberatednhimsolf lio paused a moment, and muttering, “ I wilJi’tis frt it should be so,” and darting Tui-itfusly thr0*83™tho aisle, disappeared. He again entered dragging in$Sir Neale O’Donnell. 'w Come on thou wretalied autiittrof rtiy beittg,—come see tho devastation • thou i.astmade!” and compelling him to approach the coffin,"Look,” he said, ‘‘see where she bleeds beneathruthless arm! t)h mj1 dteserthd love! seest thou lidtlihow slie supplicates thy mercy! Perdition! but 1 willbe avenged!'” Saying this lie ruslnsd from the churchin a paroxykm of fury. Sir Neele in the meantinie be¬came t!He very picture of/horror, and his teeth struckeatli other with ilreadfiil violeitce. He looked first uponthe coffin, then upon Farrell, and:at length uttered anaudible curse on all around him.Scarcely had he time .to repeat his Hiedithtkm whenagain his infuriated sou rushed forward with the rapidityof the wind, holding in each hatid a horse pistol. ** Ndw fthen,” lie roared;, "Maria, I come, and in my trainfollows that monster to which your wrongs and mymiseries are attributable. Now pride, where is thytriumph? now virtue, where is thy reward?” At thatinstant lie aimed the deadly weapon at the heart of SirNeale; who in tire, neit moment was no more ? murderedby the hand of his only son! In the same instant the'dreadful parricide discharged the other pistol at his own:head ; but by the interposition of a friendly arm, thebarrel of ilru pisto! was raised beyond its deadly level,, |jand the wretched Arthur had not for that time the fonli;sin of suicide to add to that of the murder of the autliBr:of his being.During this agonising scene, all aronnd were com¬plete ly spell bound ; not a word escaped their lips, not’a motion denoted their existence ; but tjre moment SirNeale bit his parent dust tliojr senses returned, and:with them a conviction of their own culpability iu nbt:;having interposed their endeavour to prevent the catas¬trophe they had witnessed. With one accord they now =solted the frantic Arthur^ and yith the utmost difficultyragged him from the Chhrch to the liouse of the clergy¬man of the parish, where he was bound with cords, andpiace'd an, a &ark room in the upper storv, until'suchtime as measures should Be taken for a leaal investiga¬tion of the case. ,T hn’ ^In the morning the door was gentlj opened by one' cf the guards, hut what was his astonishment to find hisS prisoner flown. An alarm was immediately given, hutno traces of him were fo he found, and whether he wasI alive or dead was equally uncertain. . grXo sooner had the events we have already recited^alcen place in Donegal, than the news flew to Dublin., where the absence of Sir Neaje uad been generally ob¬served. Amongst others who received this intelligenceI with' satisfaction, M'Pherson was foremost. NothingI could he more grateful to his treacherous heart, us allfear of a discovery ^-^is ,9^' nefarious practices,.^WJ ^ Ui'.irnu-Miuoaoiq isi Yiwb A.pJThe impending hand of fate, however, hung over thei devoted Arthur, and the all-seoijig eye of Providenceordained that a parricide should not thus calmly escapei the punishment Ins crime so richly deserved. Every| night while lyiiig off St George’s quay on the RiverLiifey, Arthur used to steal ashore, armed with a poig¬nant; and from Ifis contiguity to Sackvdie Street, lieinvariably directed Ins steps' to that spot, }u the hopepf meeting the villain M'Phersou. While watchingbefore tig! door, }ie lioaj-d a pei-son psh for Mr M- Pher-| son, and receive for answer froin the servant, that hoi was out, but would return before <#$. Tflis was suffi¬cient for Arthur, and ere the morning dawned M‘P]ier-*>( son was no more. In the guilty confusion of the mo¬il ment instead of returning to the vessel, Arthur flewi towards tlie country, and here again .{he linger of fatesepmed to guide him to his destruction.Tlio murder of M'Phersou was soon discovered byI *omo passengers, who noticed him lying on the stops,24and gave the alarm. An enquiry was then made if anyflsuspicious character was seen about the house, when a|watchman said, he had observed a man dressed in a|countryman’s garb, looking about for several flights be-Ifore. The hue and' cry being raised, a person was de¬tected going on board an American vessel, his clothes fmuch stained with blood, and a poignard in his pocket.It is needless to say this was the guilty Arthur, liewas taken before a magistrate, to whom he confessedbis rank and criminality. At first it was supposed byliis friends, that, upon an investigation of the charges,it would be found they arose from insanity. This sup¬position was contravened by Arthur himself, who con¬fessed his iniquities, and gloried in the murder ofM'Pherson. The, sessions of oy.cr tciyiincr being thensitting, he was taken thither the next day, and arraign¬ed for the murder of his father and M'Pherson, to whichcharges he pleaded guilty. The Recorder began Idslast awful duty in pronouncing the sentence of the law,when the court was struck with horror, by a scene ofthe most heart-rending nature which was exhibited.The dock in which the prisoner stood was surround¬ed by sharp iron pikes to prevent the escape bf indivi¬duals. "Within this stood Arthur patiently listening tothe pathetic address of the judge ; the attention of the ;court was * fixed upon him, and all were astonished atthe composure with which he listened to his doom.Suddenly the eyes of Arthur assumed a wildness, thatat once evinced the agitation of his mind, and in an in¬stant he dashed his temples against the surroundingjtikes, two of which penetrated his skull, and terminatedhis 'unhappy existence 1 Thus eroded the pride !—theglory !-—and the misfortunes of the O’Donnells 1The worthy Captain Farrell did n*t long survive thedeath of his Maria; he died universally lamented, andwas followed by the benedictions of all who knew him.