INTERESTINGSTORIES ;CONTAINING,The Military Mendicant.Female Heroism.The Patriotic Clergyman.EDINBURGH:Printed for the Booksellers in Town and Country.rTHE/MILITARY MENDICANT;ORBENEVOLENCE REPAID.BY MR C. I. PITT.—cc I wish thee success,” said a clergyman, putting something into an old soldier’s hand “Adieu !—Heaven return it thee !” exclaimed thesoldier, with a look that spoke more to the Lean Ithan all the expressions of gratitude that ever wen nuttered. Mis wife curtsied. “ God bless youboth !” said the good divine, and rode on. Theveteran fixed his eyes on him in silence, till he tur¬ned out of sight. “ What is it r” inquired thesoldier’s wife. “ A guinea !”. replied the soldier,wrapping it up carefully in a paper, and puttingit into a greasy vellum pocket-book, the repositoryof his humble treasures. It had been his compan¬ion in.all adventures, from childhood—apd a faith¬ful one. He esteemed it as a friend ; and, unlikemodern friends, it kept every secret with which itwas entrusted inviolate.—It contained—the prideof his heart—a memorial, in his own hand-writing,,of all the battles he bad fought, the wounds he!bad received; up to that day on which the ruth-jjless ball tore away the very arm, which had so of-jten wielded the instrument of vengeance against;!tiie enemies of his country, from iiis scarred body..Here the heroic narrative was deficient; but the:remaining stump vouched for him—how muchimore impressively ! Through this misfortune he|obtained his discharge; that, too, was preservedjnnpnnion to his memorial, to which it was af-d, signed by all his officers, a testimony of his■ ourabte conduct. It was the consciousness of! :ing merited this, that transfused a gleam oflilpiness over all his despondencies; over these: Will memorials he frequently shed a tear, whichjetened the hour of distress, and bestowed a1 Isolation only to be imbibed by minds attuneddie delicate harmony of Sensibility, at the re-5 d touch, of Virtue.L'Jrant, Almighty Disposer of events ! that myi ,rt may ever be awake to the still voice of hon-I ; that the season of calamity may not be ren¬ted more irksome by the inquietudes of con-nceA guinea!” said the soldier. “ A guinea!Ji bless him for it l” uttered h*s wife. “ Amen !!>ined the soldier.Would to Heaven thatsohear-nn Amen closed the prayers of the whole world !I'1 There are some good people left in the world,"Served the wife. “ Heaven forbid there should!’’ answered the husband—and on they jogged,■nan humble house of entertainment presented toI m a welcome sight. They approached it joy-; y; and turned in, to satisfy their moderater.<ts, and rest their wearied limbs.. The weather was cold : hut they placed them-||es, modestly, at a distance from the fire, though■.as not quite taken up. A piper lad kindly of-f fd Ids seat ; the veteran thankfully declined it;ivvas drawing nearer, when the landlord entered.i muttered something about vagrants and passes!die soldier heard, but noticed it not: he knewpower of money, and accompanied his inquiryrefreshment with a wish to have change for aroguinea. The word guinea, operated as a magicharm : a dean cloth was instantly spread ; a stealput, on the lire; and the landlord insisted that thchimney corner should be resigned for his militaryguest, who begged no one might he disturbed foihim. The landlord was positive ; forced both hintand his wife oil the bench ; swore every one ought Ito have a proper respect for the King's cloth ; dranfboth that and his Majesty, out of a brimmer whirlwas just brought for the soldier; and assured tincompany, that he had once canied arms himself,but, having an opportunity to settle, he though*it best to sle.gp iu a whole skin, and so bought hi|dhcharge.This was all just—for any thing the companyknew to the contrary; certain it was, that hebatbeen a private in a marching regiment; but respecting the manner in which he left it, he hatmade a small mistake—perhaps his memory wabad—perhaps he wished to keep his own secret—or perhaps he had told his story so often, tha.himself began to be persuaded of its verity. Kea-der, he was drummed out! " For what?” askesthou. Peace, untoward spirit of curiosity ! seeWnot to bring to light the misdeeds ot thy brotherwhich time has kindly left in oblivion:—uas! 1am guiltier than thyself. I set thee an exampleHow frail is man ! how vain his reasoning !The two travellers began their little repastThe landlord joined them. The soldier smiledhim a cheerful welcome. The mug was twice fill!•ed ; and the table soon cleared. They all gather1'ed close round the lire; and the soldier relatedthe adventure of the clergyman and the guinea.The landlord dare said, beside that guinea, thi5.NsMia^ but fifiys a year to^^iutain them.iiiousfh the rectorship js e.-fn-tlf five tiiiibs as much.I jut the old rector died ye iterday . ^aid 'so, the cu-tlt'eca!||te came here to hire one of my hdrsesJ—ij to, gen mien—to- go to the quire's to "'ll egisfore living; and he has all the’pdrisii's gpod"wordsad prayers with'hi in.”—M Heaven grr>nt lie may<:|jcceed !” emphatically interrupted the sol'dif So says I }” rejoiwea hiine host ; 'aecompanv-1 p'g the hearty afhrlriatioii with as he'u'.ty a:tug at♦ lie soldier’s aie—u But, nevetheles*, genimeu, Ijj|?ars as hoVv he wont: For his honour the "Squire,rough the) says something as how 'the estate i’n’tus—but ’ I 'Avbuid’nt have it, uttowii I|5oke of it—I Sehr'rfs'to meddle with'Other folk’sflairs—besides, he -might take away mv license ;||nd'times are hard—but Mr Martin, a gcntlem.in1 a the neighbourhood, knows a'ii about it. AmiUO ^ 7 jas I was a saying*," gertinieti, the’Squire has of-Min’s the time been heard to say, that- he iidhld selllie parsontatum ; arjd I am sure Dr'Kind can’t buy,t; for, as I said, he is but poor-4-aiiil th.it wasuhe reason I ivoCfjTd’nif take any tlifng of hihi forfflhe lent of my IroVsei—and he had the lie,4 too—ifhdtlgh he doesn’t.buy two hoggins of ale of me in amonth. But alien, to Ire sure, he is parson of the•arish, and doesn’t get drunk. Here’s' his health,einmen 1” seizing a pcit that stood next him, andailing his wife to replenish the soldier’s, whichwastempty. ’When the ale was drawn, the soldier producedW/l||ti.mii;guinea for change. Boniface aud j>is rib ba\r'5ng botri rummaged their pockets for the amountfivimd tney were seven shillings deficient. “ Whatthe devil hast thou done with all thy silver P crie$Boniface. “ Why, my dear,” replied she meekly,didn’t I give it to Dr Kind out of the half-guinea for the hire of the horse ?” This rather con.fused our disinterested host: but not being easilput out of countenance, and thinking silence besthe took no other notice of the circumstance, thanto bid her go and get change; winking to her verysignificantly, at the same time, to withdraw. Thcompany had sat for some time, enjoying themselves in silence, here and there interrupted bytrite observation, when the piper offered to piayithem a tune. A dance was accordingly proposed ;but objected to, at first, by Boniface, who observedas how it spoiled good company. However, find¬ing it necessary to conform to the humour of hiscustomers, he determined to lose nothing from thetemporary suspension of driifking; and, havingemptied the only mug that had liquor in it, order¬ed his wife—who now returned with “ She couldn’tget change, though she had been at a dozen pla¬ces !"—to fill all again, and stood up with the rest.The piper began ; and at it they went, if not withskill, at least with glee.How fragile is the tenure of joy! the piper hadscarcely thrice repeated his strain, when in came<he landlady, and informed her spouse, that MrMartin was. come for his horse, which they hadlent the Doctor in the morning. She was follow¬ed by the gentleman. Scorum was again confused ;and stammered out, that as hqw it had wantedshoeing, aud so he had sent it to town. But MrMartin, who had overheard all the wife hath Said,axed the delinquent with his guilt. He now beg-;ed ten thousand pardons; and while the 'ownerssured him, that had he lent it to any one else,,e would never have excused him, the diviuie en-tred. The landlord swore for joy, and ran outf> receive the horse; and the Doctor and Mryfartin shook hands, and were retiring into thelarlour, when the former espied the object of his'enevolence ; and, apologizing to his friend, re-mested their company also. Thinking it theirluty not to refuse, they modestly obeyed ; and aheerful bowl being instantly filled, they all satiownHo enjoy it.II The soldier was agitated concerning the successI f his benefactor: it was not busy Solicitude, buthe anxietv of gratitude. The Doctor was silentI n the subject; and the soldier, persuaded of his. access by the uniform cheerfulness of his manners,t his own heart at rest.II Distress generally excites curiosity—seldom anyt iling farther. The appearance of the vetian ex¬ited that of Martin: but he was a humane man ;I hd it was a laudable motive that induced him to.lint, in a delicate manner, a desire of being ac-iiuainted with his history. The soldier readily'ikitified him.fci His name, he said, was Roach; his father bore;rrms. He was born at Carrickfergus, in Ireland;|id, when but two years old, his father beingII dered abroad, his mother took him with her tov How the fortunes of her husband. At: fourteen,Host his mother, and, at sixteen, his father. Hetight by his side ; saw him fall; and had theeaiure of revenginghiiri on the man who slew him./l78His ii£e had been literally a continual warfare—but he had been raised only to a halberd.Mr M-itm expressed surprize—merit is eve]modest.. I deserved no more,” was the replyHe pro seeded—He had been thrice imprisoned ini]1'.ranee, once in Spain, and once in Holland. “ Bu ]j1 trust i n God !’’ said the hero. And he deliversed thee,'” returned the divine.—During an interv\between the two last imprisonments he had suffered, for the second time since he was two years oiage, he saw Kngland. He then married ; and hisywife hail been Iris constant companion in all his sue neeeding troubles. At fifty, he lost his arm in tinlamentable war that separated England and Ante*rica; at Bunker’s Hill he received the fatal shot;,'and, w ith the united testimony of all his officer?;concerning his fidelity and bravery, rvas sent tcfinish his days in .the mother country. He appliedfor the pension. Merit is not always successful:he was modest; and had not a friend at courtEle applied in vain !His w ife had a relation in Wales, a creditable,though not a rich farmer : to him they went, andlived with him, labouring for their maintenance,four years. He then died ; and, being ignorantof any other relations, left them his all. ; Theywere industrious, they were frugal: but prosperityis not always the reward of industry, and the fru¬gal are sometimes sparing in vain, The hand ofProvidence seemed against them; but the ways of*Heaven are inscrutable ! Their .cattle died; theiricrops failed ! Their all wa^ nearly gone, vvhen thehonest pair called thep creditors together, .and sur¬rendered to them the little that remained; •aut!rtaking an affectionate farewell of their neighbours.39■who al! pitied them, but were too poor materiallyijto assist them, set off for London, to sue once woreIfor the pension ; fearing at. the same, time thati|the)r had deferred the application too long.They had travelled four days cheerfully ; whenthey lost the purse which held the pittance theyihad to support them on their journey ! Hut theywere resigned : they had^begged through the fifth ;i land on the sixth, they were met by the charitablei curate. Here the narrator repealed his thanks;i and (he clergyman insisted they were not due, hav¬ing done nothing more than his duty.Mr Martin, apologizing, inquired of the soldierwhere his father fell ! “ At Dettirigert !” Had heino relation living? None that he knew of. He. once had a brother, christened Leonard, after hisfather ; who, when he went abroad, was left withi,an aunt at C'arrickfergus, and Was then fi ve yearshold He addressed to hirft) an account of hisfather’s fate, but did not himself see Ireland forMx years afterwards. He then heard that his aunt|pas dead ; but, from all the inquiries he couldi make, had never been able to learn what becamepf his brother, or whether he received the lettertponcerning ids father. *• lie did!” interrupted(Martin. The clergyman, the soldier and his wife,all fixed their eyes on him. “ Heavens ! is he a-Jivfc ?” eagerly exclaimed the semjeaul;. “ No!”flleeply sighed Mr Martin—“ He was my intimateSwiend. About six months after the receipt of yourteller, he quitted Ireland; and in the service of aoreign merchant, thrice travelled over t.he conti-icnt of Europe—Mils fidelity and zeal so attachedurn to his employer, who now settled in England,i hat he entertained him no longer an a servant,101but made him his companion and confidant;dying about eight years ago, bequeathed himestate in this county, amounting to eight hundpounds per annum, together, with the presentati1of the parish living/1Here the clergyman seemed rather discomposThe soldier observed it. Mr Martin went on-“ About this time, I became accquainted wiyour brother. He imparted to me every eircmstance of his life. I assisted him in perpetualquiries after you, but in vain ; and accidentaldiscovering a cousin of your aunt, out of gratituto her, at his death about four years ago, exceptha legacy of two hundred pounds a year to me,made him his sole heir; with a proviso, that ifver you eould be found, the whole estate was,be your own, on condition of your allowing hi,two hundred pounds per annum Nothing thremains. Sir, but to make the requisite proofs 1,fore the proper persons, which we will do witout delay. Indeed, the strong resemblance ybear to your brother, is testimony enough for mbut there are others to be satisfied.11“ Praised be Heaven !” exclaimed the good dtor. The soldier’s wife was transported—she vvejfor joy.The soldier bore his good fortune with admable gerenity. “ I should have received mgpleasure from this news,” said he, had notcousin forestalled me in the wish of my heart, a.prevented me from exyressihg my gratitudethat generous gentleman, in a proper manner,giving hint the living.” “ Give you the livinl)r Xiod !” exclaimed-Mr Martin. “ He hbargained for it with Dr Double.” “ He has ni11Vabroken the contract, I can assure yoll,v, replied Dr| Kind. “ Is it not your’s, then ?V hastily repliedthe soldier. “ But it shall—it shall be !” And; he took several turns, or rather quick marches,;j across the room. His heart was bull—a tear re¬lieved him.In a few weeks his register from Ireland, andj every necessary voucher for his identity, were pi'o-I cured. He asserted his claim; every one wasI satisfied with his equity, except his.cousin ; he took[possession ; solicited Mr Martin, in vain, to accepta reward for his exertions; and, in presenting therectory to the benevolent doctor, experienced thei lsubliniest gratification of a noble heart, from thei consciousness of having, by promoting the inde-Ipendence of virtue, discharged the obligations ofI gratitude.FEMALE HEROISM.A real Fact, related by Meissner.IBaron R- used to spend the summer at a char-liming seat, situated ih a most romantic country at5 a considerable distance from the main road. HisDiicastle, standing wpon the top of an eminence, eOr-uresporuied with his large fortune : it was spaciousnand elegant, and some hundred yards distant fromuilt.he village which belonged to it.fij Business obliged him, one time, to quit it fof a»^few days, and to leave his lady, a young and char-Siming woman, under the protection of bis mostI faithful servants. He had not been absent aboveutwo days, when, as the Baroness was just going;to bed, a sudden and terrible noise was heard in12IV.' tof,4n nrljoiniiig apartment. She called for her se• - !uit no answer was returned, while t!erew‘Idhder every moment. Not being ahreive what could be the cause of this up oar, she slipped on a night-gown, an■ the door to see what could occasion th•g disturbance. Any w'oman, less intrepii rself: would have fainted away at the drea! . ; s: ifi which she beheld on opening the docTwo ol her men-servants la)- half naked on tlwith their brains dashed out, the whole ImeHt was liiled with strange men, of a mo:rid aspect; her woman was kneeling befo( . of the|r., atid in that verv moment was pier■ thrf.ugb the heart bv one of the midnight ruflWhen the door was opened, two of the:•'; bri iahs rushed towards it with drawn sword\ oat man. however great his courage, would inhave been appalled by terror, and either attemptsto save himself by flight, or throwing himself protrap' at the feet of the robbers, have conjured thehis life: But the Baroness acted diffe1to spareeni iy.Are you here at last ?]1 exclaimed she, wifjappinent riijj.tnre,-fl) ing towards her aggressowith an eagerness that surprised them, and macthem pause, just as they -were ready to strike tlif blow—” Are vou here at last r” c-xclaimflshe o ce more. “ I have, wished this long whiito see v isitors like y.ou ^ ished !” roared onof the murderers ; ■; What dp you mean by; that— •’ 1 each you ”He ' r<«pdished his cutlass; but his comrade airested his arm. “ Stop a moment, brother, Itus near, what she wants of us.”I (< Nothing else, my brave lads, but vyliat is agree¬able to yourselves. I see you have made quickiwork here. You are men .after my own mind,land you will not repent of it, if you will (listenquietly to me only for a few moments.’’' “ Speak !” exclaimed the whole crew : “ Speak!”“ But be brief!’ vociferated the most terrible ofi Ithem; for we shall soon send you after your people.”I “ I much doubt whether you will, after youi have heard what I am going to say. I am maried,i indeed, to the wealthiest nobleman in the country :! but the wife of the meanest beggar cannot be moremiserable than myself, as my tyrant is the mean-I ;est and most jealous wretch on earth. I hate himjjmore bitterly than words can express, and havei long been anxious to find an oppoi tunity of hreak-jiling my fetters, and paying my tyrant in his own♦ coin. I should have eloped long ago, bad I beendable to effect my escape. All my servants are hisspies, and that fellow yonder, whose skull von havenso bravely handled, was the worst of all. My tor-) mentor even compels me to sleep alone—l am butMwenty-two years olcf, and may at least Hatter my-shself of not being totally destitute of personaliichafms .* should any one of you be willing fb takeJime with him, I-should not lusitate a moment tofcfollow him, no matter whether his residence be in> a cavern or in a village alehouse. Nor will youjirepent, of having spared my life. You are in alicastle amply stored with treasures; but it is un¬it! possible you'can be acquainted with every secret> recess in it. I will discover them to you, and younimay treat me as you havb treated my woman, ifi this discovery don’t make you six thousand dollarsMlricher.”14Robbers of this description are indeed villainof the blackest die, but, nevertheless, they ceasnot to be men. The unexpected tenor of theiprisoner’s address, the apparent unconcern wit.which she spoke, the more than common charmof & jqipig female only slightly dressed—all thiproduced most singular effects in the hearts omen whose hands were yet stained with bloocThey formed a ring, and consulted apart forfew minutes. The Baroness stood at some dis.tance, but made not the least attempt to escapeShe heard several of them say, “ Down with herand the farce will be at end,” but scarcely chang;ed her colour, as she also remarked on the othe:hand, that this proposal was objected to by the rest]One of the band, who seemed to be the captainof the banditti, now went up to her, asking he:repeatedly, whether her words might be reliefupon ? whether she was really desirous of elopkijfrom her lord and accompanying them ? whetheishe was willing to surrender her person to anyone of them for enjoyment ? She replied to allthese questions in the affirmative, and not onl)endured, but even relumed, the kiss of the rpbbei—for what could not extreme necessity excuse—>and having by these means gained the confidenctof the robbers, their leader said to her, " Comethen, and shew us the secret recesses of the castleI know it is rather dangerous to rely upon tinsincerity of women of your rank ; but we will venture it for once ; but you may rest assured that 1will cleave your head to your shoulders, though iwere ten times more charming, if you make thileast attempt to escape, or to impose upon us.”“ Then my head will be perfectly safe !” re•*4f*15; plied the Baroness; smiling, as if she really burnedi with an eagerness for plunder and a long-wished^escape; snatched up a lighted candle, conducting;the band to every apartment, bpening every door,rcloset, and chest, unasked; assisting in emptyingtheir contents; diverting the robbers with the; most jovial sallies of humour; jumping with appar¬ent indifference over the dead bodies other mang-i led servants ; conversed with every one of thesei plunderers as if they were old acquaintances;[(and manifested a degree of satisfaction that could[(not but .remove every suspicion.Plate, money, jewels, and-every thing valuablethat could be found, vverg now collected, and the(captain ordered his gang to prepare instantly forquitting the castle, when his intended mistresssuddenly laid hold of his arm: “ Did I not tella I you,” exclaimed she, “ that you would not repenticof hawing saved my life, ami that I should provehj myself your real friend ? you are dexterous enoughin emptying the chests you find open ; but yourlynx eyes would never discover the secret treasuresof this castle.”“Secret! what? where?” most eagerly ex¬claimed the whole band.i£ Do you imagine,” rejoined the Baroness,“ that drawers which are full of the most valu¬able articles, contain no secret recesses ?—Lookhere, and you will soon see how blind you were.”So saying, the Baroness pointed at a secret(spring in the Baron’s writing desk. The robbersopened it, and shouted with joy and astonishmentIon discovering six rouleaus, each containing twohundred ducats.“ Bravo H exclaimed the captain, “ I see nowthat thou art an excellent woman. Thou shailead the life of a duchess.”‘‘ Vou will be still better pleased with me,” iiternipted she, laughing, “ when I shew you tllast but principal hoard of my tyrant. I can easly perceive that your spies have informed you *Jus absence,; but tell me, have they also told ycthat he received, the day before yesterday, foithousand dollars ?”Not a syllable ! where are they ?”Under lock and key. You would never hanfound t he iron chest in which they are, were I irleagued, with you —Follow me comrades ! we havmade clear work, above ground; let us see nowhat we can do under ground. Follow me to thcellar.”The roblrers followed her; but took the preckition to guard against any sudden surprise, postina sentinel at the entrance cf the cellar, which wjsecured by a strong iron trap door. The Baroress pretended to take no notice of it, leading thband onwards to one of the most remote reeesseof spacious cellar. Having unlocked the door,larfje iron chest was discovered in a corne;Here !” said she, giving a bunch of keys to thcaptain, “ try whether you can open it, and talcits contents in lieu of a dowry, if you can obtaiithe consent, of your companions.”The robber tried one key after another ; buUone fitted the key hole. He grew impatient, an.the Baroness affected to he still more so.”“ Lgt We try,” said she, “ I hope I shall b;more, successful. I am fearful lest the dawn umorning Hah ! hah ! i now conceive wlrneither you nor myself can open it. Lxcuse nrlislake ! Welcome as your visit is to me, the joyt your unexpected arrival has, nevertheless, dis-oncerted me a little. I have taken the wrongjunch of keys. Have patience only two minutes ;| shall lie back in a trice.”|j With ihese words she flew up the stairs, and be-bre two minutes were elapsed, the sound of her!>otsteps was already heard from the court-yard,'n coming near the cellar door, she exclaimed withretended joy, though oi 1 of breath, “ I havei und it! I have found it P and in the same mo¬ment bounded suddenly against the sentinel at theitrance, throwing him headlong down the cellar5 lairs. The trap door was bolted with the quick-si jss of lightning, and the whole band encaged m• ie cellar.i| All this was the work of one moment. In the|fext, she flew over the court-yard,' setting fire to|l solitary stable, full of straw and hay, and thenimes blazed instantaneously aloft. The watch-an in the adjacent village observed the blaze,i id rung the alarm bell. In a few moments theIstle yard was crowded with peasants. Thei'laroness ordered some of them to extinguish theumes, while she conducted the rest to the Baron'semory, and having distributed swords and fireims amongst them, desired them to surround theJsllar. Her orders were obeyed, and not one oflie hand escaped his well-merited fate.PATRIOTIC CLERGYMAN.ATTRIBUTED TOMrs BARBAULD.On the abolition of titles in France, the clerica.distinctions of their established church were like¬wise destroyed. Happy would it have been fo;that kingdom, and the best interests of the com¬munity, had the innovating hand of a revolutio¬nary government stopt when they had liberate!the church from its connexion wrilh the stateBut the blind fury of democracy overleaped tinbounds of reason and of truth ; for no sooner hatthey unshalded the church of France from her for¬mer umvieldly establishment, than they despiseiand ridiculed that religion which had been former¬ly the rule of their conduct. From fanatics the)became athiests; and but for the magnanimousexertions of the few, who were virtuous as well a;patriotic, the religion of France wrould have beertotally annihilated. Among those brave and disin¬terested men, the following character will bear fidistinguished rank, and his conduct deserves to hecommemorated to distant ages.A few7 days after the Archbishop of Paris andhis Vicars had set the example of renouncing theiiclerical character, a Rector, from a village on thebanks of the Rhone, followed by some of hisparishioners, wdth an offering of gold aud silver'll ■ 'inis, chalices, rich vestments,. Sic. presented Uini-If at the bar of the Convention The sight of; e gold put that assembly in a very good humour,id the Rector, a thin venerable looking man,lith gray hairs, was ordered to speak:1 “ I come,’' said he, “ from the village of ,here the only good building standing (for the; nateau has been pulled down) is a very finej’lurch. My parishioners beg you will take it, toike an hospital for the sick and wounded of both, rties, they being both equally our countrymen,i The gold and silver, part of which we haveE ought you, they in treat you will devote to thej vice of the state; and that you will cast the,1s into cannon, to drive away its foreign in-■ ders.—For myself, I atfi come with great plea-pe, to resign my letters of ordination, of induct-tand every deed and title, by which l haveconstituted a member of your ecclesiasticalIjjity. — Here are the papers ; you may burn them,ij/ou please, in the same fire with the genealogical, ?s and patents of the nobility. I desire, like-,e, that you will discontinue my salary. I amhi able to support Jinyself by the labour of myyds; and I beg you to believe, that I never felt|*erer joy than I do now do in making this re-jyelation. I have longed to see this day ; i seeI uteri am glad.”i.Vhen the old man had done speaking; the ap.• uses were immoderate. “You are an honestV1 said they, all at once ; “ a brave fellow, youiiiot believe in God ; and the president advancedsave him the fraternal embrace."Ifhe Rector did not seem greatly elated withthe tokens of approbation; and he retired backv steps, and thus resumed his discourse.*. jJ t" ,■■■? I ■' ‘ ifii ' ;“ Before you appiaiu) my .sentiments, J't is fityou. sliquk} understand them; pci'iiaps;. they maynot entirelyjqqincide with your own. I rejoice inthis‘daynot because I wish to see religion'degra¬ded, but, .because I wish to see.it exalted aiid.-puri-fied. Jly dissolving its alliance with the state,'vonhave,, given it dignity and independence Yknihave done it a piece oj'ye'. vice wkidi its wLelI-wish-ers would perhaps never have liad courage to. ren¬der it, hut, which is theyplv thing wanted to makeit appear in its genuine beauLv and lustre. No*body will now .say of me. wheu:I am perfornunsthe offices of my religion, ‘-It is his trade, he ipaid for telling the. people such and such things ,lie is hired to heep up a useful piece of mummery.’—They cannot now sav this : and therefore I feesmyself raised in my own ^steem, and shall spealto them wit!) a confidence and ■ frankness which;before this,-1 never durst venture to assurhe.- VVr»resign, without reluctance, our gold and silver in*ages and embroidered vestments, jiecause we huvinever found that looking upon gold and silvemade the heart more pure, or the gltegtions morheavenly ; we can also spare our churches^ for thheart that wishes to lift itself up to God will nevebe at a loss for room to do it in ; but we cannospare our religion ; because, to tell you the trntliwe never had so much occasion for it. I .undeistand that" you accuse us priests of having to id tl)people a great many falsehoods I suspect this malhave been the case ; but, till this day. We have nevbeen allowed to inquire whether the things widewe taught them were true or not. Von requireus formerly to receive them all without proof, aiyriu how would have us reject them aU witho!|discrimination; neither of these modes of col;'f&Sfrs -21uct become pbilospbers, such as you would beiought to be. I am going to employ myself dili-lently. along with my parishioners, to sift theheat from the bran, the true from the false; ife are not successful we shall be at least sincere,do fear, indeed, that while I wore these vest-ents which we have brought you, and spoke intat large gloomy building which we have givento you, I told my poor flock a great many idleories. I cannot but hope, however, that thelifrors we have fallen into have not been very ma-linal, since the village has, in general,, been soberid good ; the peasants are honest, docile, and la-jrjous; the husbands love their wives, and theiyes their husbands ; they are fortunately hot too|ch to be compassionate, and they have cdhsfantTrelieved the sick and fugitives of all parties when-it has lain in their way. I think, therefore,hat I have taught them cannot be so very muchpiss.ou want toextirpatepriests, but willu hinder the ignorant from applying for in¬action, the unhappy for comfort and hope, thelearned from loolung up to the learned ? If younot, you will have priests, by whatever nameu may order them to be- called ; but it is cer-inly not necessary they should wear a particularess, or be appointed by state letters of ordination,y letters ot ordination are my zeal, my charity,ardent love for my dear children of the village ;were more learned, I would add, my knowledge;t, alas! we ail know very little; to man everyor is pardonalde bjit want of humility. Weve a public aalk, with a spreading elm-tree ate end ol it, and a circle ci green round it, withonvenieut bench. Here I shall draw togetherthe children, as they are playing around me. Ishall point to the vines laden with fruit, to theorchards, to the herds of cattle lowing around us,to the distant hills, stretching one behind another,and they pill ask me, “ How came all these things?”I \ shall tell them all I know, or have heardfrom wise ipen who have lived before me; theywill he penetrated with love and veneration ; theywill kneel, I shall kneel with them ; they will notbe at my feet, but all of us at the feet of that GoodBeing, whom we shall worship together;—andthus they will receive within their tender mindsa religion. The old men will come sometimes,from having deposited under the green sod one oftheir companions, and place themselves by mvside; they will look wishfully at the turf, andanxiously inquire—“ Is he gone for ever? Jihailwe soon he like him? Will no morning breakover the tomb? When the wicked cease fromtroubling, will the good cease from doing good ?”—We will talk of these things: I will comfortthem. I will tell them of the goodness of God ;I will.speak to them of a life to come; I will bidthem hope for a state of retribution. In a clearnight, when the stars slide over our heads, theywill ask what those bright bodies are, and by whatrules they rise and set ? And we will converse a-bout different forms of being, and distant worldsin the immensity of space, governed by the samelaws ; till we feel our minds raised from \yhat isgrovelling, and refined from what is sordid. Youtalk of nature,—this is nature ; and if you couldat this moment extinguish religion in the minds:of all the world, thus would it be kindled again,and thus ^gain excite the curiosity, and interest23I t feelings of mankind. Yon have changed our ho-udays; you have an undoubted right, as our civili pernors, so to do; it is very immaterial whetherey ai e kept once in seven days or once in ten ;drie, however, you will leavens; and when theyi;:i:ur, I shall tell those who choose to hear me, ofi'I' beauty and utility of virtue, of the dignity ofht conduct. We shall talk of good men who/e lived in the world, and of the doctrines they(light; and if any of them have beert persecutedi;|l put to death for their virtue, we shall reverencejir memories the more. I hope in all this theresio harm.‘ There is a hook, out of which I have sonle-fcles taught my people ; it says we are to lovetiise who do us hurt, and'to pour oil and wine10 the wounds of the stranger. It Iras enabled, children to bear patiently the spoiling of theirids, and to give up their own interest for theIrleral welfare. I think it cannot be a very badii'fk. I wish more of it had been read in youriirn : perhaps you would not have had quite soiV.iy assassinations and massacres. In this book0; hear of a person called Jestis; some worshipp as a God; others, as lam told, say it isj|ng to do so ; some teach that he existed beforei beginning of ages ; others, that he was hornifoseph and Mary. I cannot tell whether theseItroversies will ever be decided; but, in then time, I think we cannot do otherwise thanin imitating him; for I learn that he lovedpoor, and went about doing good."Fellow-citizens, as I travelled hither from myi village, I saw peasants sitting among theking ruins of their cottages; rich men andwomen reduced to deplorable poverty; fathers la-fcmenting their children in tire bloom and pride of-youth ; and i sa}d to myself, These'people cannotalibrd to part with their religion. But, indeed,you caunot take it away : If, contrary to your firstdeclaration, you choose to try the experiment ofpersecuting it, you will only make us prize it more*and love it better. Religion, true or false, is s.(*necessary to the mind of man', that even you havealready begun to make yourselves a new one..You are sowing the seeds of superstition, at tmjjmoment you fancy you are destroying supersti¬tion ; and, in two or three'generations, your pos¬terity will he worshipping some clumsy idol, with!the rites, perhaps, of a bloody Moloch, or a lasci¬vious Thamuser. It was not worth while to havebeen philosphers, and to have destroyed the imagesof our saints for this ; but let every one choose thereligion that pleases him; I and my parishionersiare content with our’s ; it teaches us to bear theevils your chiidish or sanguinary decrees havehelped to bring upon the country.”The Rector turned his footsteps homeward, andthe Convention looked for some minutes on oneanother, before thy resumed their work of blood.