THE[Xo. 1.VOYAGES AND TRAVELSOF AEDINBURGH:PRINTED St PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDOXE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.OF SCOTLAND ^VOYAGES AND TRAVELS OF A BIBLE.After remaining a close prisoner for some months in abookseller's shop, I was liberated, and taken to the country,to be a companion to a young gentleman who had latelycome of age. The moment I entered the parlour where hesat, he rose up, and took me in his hands, expressing hissurprise at the elegance of my dress, which was scarletembroidered with gold. The whole family seemed greatlypleased with my appearance, but they would not permit meto say one word. After their curiosity was satisfied, theydesired me to sit down upon a chair in the corner of theroom. In the evening, I was taken up stairs and confined iuthe family-prison, called by them the library. Several thou¬sand prisoners were under the same sentence, standing inrows round the room ; they had their names written upontheir foreheads, but none of them were allowed to speak.We all remained in this silent, inactive posture for someyears. Now and then a stranger was admitted to see us ;these generally wondered at our number, beauty, and theorderly manner in which we stood, but our young keeperwould never allow a person to touch us, or take us from ourcell.A gentleman came in one morning, and spoke in highcommendation of some Arabians and Turks who stood at myright side; he said they would afford fine amusement on awinter evening. Upon his recommendation, they were alldischarged from prison, and carried down stairs. After theyhad finished their fund of stories, and had not one word moreto say, they were all remanded back to prison, and one whocalled himself Don Quixote was set at liberty. This man,being extremely witty, afforded fine sport for Mr William,(for that was our keeper’s name.) Indeed, for more than afortnight, he kept the whole house in what is called goodhumour. After Quixote had concluded his harangues, MrWilliam chose a Man of Feeling for his companion, whowrought upon his passions in a way which pleased him vastly.Mr William now began to put a higher value upon his pri¬soners, and to use them more politely. Almost daily he helda little chit-chat with one prisoner or another. Mr Humerelated to him the history of England down to the Revolution,which he intersected with a great many anecdotes aboutGermany, France, Italy, and various other kingdoms. DrRobertson then described the state of South America whenfirst discovered, and related the horrid barbarities committedby the Spaniards, when they stole it from the natives. AirVOYAGES AN’b ThA!VELS OF A BIBLE. 3; William wept when he heard of their savage treatment ofi Montezuma. Rollin next spoke ; he related to him the risei and fall of ancient empires ; he told him that God was theil supreme Governor among the nations; that he raiseth upi one to great power and splendour, and putteth down another.'He told him what he did not know before, that God hadi often revealed to some men events which were to happeni hundreds of years afterwards, and directed him to converse11 with me, and I could fully inform him on that subject. MrWilliam resolved to converse with me at a future period ; butj having heard some of his relations speak rather disrespect-i fully of me, he was in no hurry. At length, my prison-doorwas unlocked, and I was conducted to his bed-room.My first salutation struck Mr William : ‘ In the begin-ii ning,’ said I, ‘ God created the heavens and the earth ; andthen proceeded to make man, ivhom he placed in a garden,i with permission to eat of every tree that was in it, exceptone.’ I then related the history of Adam, the first man, howi he was urged and prevailed oh by the Devil not to mind God’sj prohibition, but to eat of the forbidden tree ; how, by this!l abominable act, he had plunged himself and his posterity intoii misery. William, not relishing this conversation, closed myn mouth, desiring me to say no more at tlmt time.A few days afterwards, he allowed me to speak of thej« wickedness of the old world ; how God sent Noah to reproveII their iniquity, and to threaten the destruction of the whole; world if they did not repent and turn to the Lord ; that the11 world were deaf to his remonstrances ; and that God at last! desired Noah to build an ark of wood, such as would containi himself and family ; for he was soon to destroy the inhabi¬tants of the earth by a deluge of water. This conversation:'f was rather more relished than the former.I The next opportunity, I gave him a history of the ancientpatriarchs, shewing the simplicity, integrity, and holiness oftheir lives, extolling their faith in God, and promptness inobeying all his commandments. Mr William became muchmore thoughtful than I had seen him upon any former occa¬sion. What I told him he generally related to his friends attable. rd .snsob fo tfiu :[He was wonderfully taken with the account I gave of thatnation whom God had chosen for his own people, viz. theJews. I told him how wonderfully God had delivered themfrom captivity in Egypt; how he drowned in the Red Seathe army of the Egyptians, with their king at their head,who were pursuing the Jews. But, when I told him of theholy law of God, and expatiated a little upon it, he shruggedup his shoulders, and said it was too strict for him. ‘ Well,4 VOYAGES AND THAyiiLS 0/ ,William,’sakl I f ‘ cursed is everyone who continuetk notin all things written or commanded in that law.’ He pushedmo aside, ran down stairs, and soon became sick and fever¬ish. His mother begged of him to tell her the cause of hissudden distress. He said I had alarmed him exceedingly ;that he found himself a great sinner, and saw no mercy forhim in the world to come. His mother came running upstairs, and, in the heat of passion, locked me in my old cell,where I remained in close confinement for some days. But,as William could not be happy without my company, I wassent for. I found him very pale and pensive; however, Ifaithfully told him, that the imaginations of the thoughts ofthe heart were only evil, and that continually. He said helately began to feel that; he bad tried to make it better,but could not. Upon this, a stranger entered the room, andI was hidden at the back of a sofa, because the family werequite ashamed that I should be seen talking with William.The stranger remarked he had observed him talking withme, and assured him that I should do him much more harmthan good ; that I had occasioned great Confusion in theworld, by driving many people mad. On this, they all joinedin scandalizing my character; and I was again confined to myold cell, in the library.But, when my God enables me to fix an arrow in a sinner’sheart, the whole universe cannot draw it out. William wasalways uneasy when I was not with him ; consequently, hopaid me many a stolen visit. I told him, one day,not to trust inriches, for the}' often took to themselves wings, and flew fromone man to another, as God directed them." Job once pos¬sessed houses, lands, sheep, a flourishing family, all of whichwere taken from him in a few hours ; but God never forsookhim.William was advised by his friends to take a tour for a fewweeks, to remove the gloom which hung upon his mind. Hedid so ; but he returned more dejected than ever. The mo¬ment he arrived, I was sent for to talk with him. I desiredhim to behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins ofthe world; I said there was no other name given underheaven among men, but the name of Jesus, by which theycould be saved ; that God so loved the world, as to send hisSon into it, to save it by his death. I then went over thewhole history of the Saviour, from his birth at Bethlehem tobis death on Calvary, describing his resurrection, and point¬ed but the evidence of it; then led his attention to Bethany,describing the marvellous circumstances attending his ascen¬sion to his T’other; and testified to him the wonderful etlectswhich followed, in the immense increase of conversions to the ■OF A BIBLE.5:faith. I then enlarged upon Christ’s commission to his'ijapostles, his commanding them to publish to every creature.Hinder heaven the glad news, that Christ hud died for the1 ungodly, had finished redemption, and ascended up on highto receive gifts for men, and to bestow them on all who believenGod’s testimony concerning him.1 God opened the mind of William to perceive the impor¬tance and truth of these things. He began to hope in God,i through the offering of his Son a sacrifice for sin. I advisedhim to follow holipess, without which no man shall see the'Lord in heaven, nor can he continue to see his glory on theearth; to have no fellowship with wicked men ; to be a faithfulisteward of what God had given him. I told him how Christrewarded those who overcame all their enemies through faithiin his bipod, and by believing the word of his testimony.IThis conversation made him very happy, and he left mere-i ioieing in the Lord.1 Some time after, he came with a sorrowful heart, complain¬ing that he did not feel the Lord’s presence ; that God hadforsaken him. I assured him that that was impossible ; foriGod expressly says, He will never leave, no, nor forsake hispeople; and that he changes not in his love to them. Il warned him to be cautious how he spoke against God ; foriisucli language is calling God a liar. J told him likewise that1 the Chuych had once preferred a similar complaint againsther God; upon which Jehovah said it was possible for aSmother to forsake her infant child, hut impossible for himlever to leave or forsake his people ; for he had pledged hisIioord to the contrary. Whereupon I warned him to be nomore faithless, but believing, and by doing so he would glorifyGod greatly before men : it w ould tend to make men thinkmore favourably of God, and probably lead some to seek aninterest in his favour, who otherwise would not. Upon thishe cried out with tears,1 Lord, I believe,- help my unbelief!I I change in my love, hut thou changest not.’William was afterwards brought into great affliction. I0 told him God sent it to him for good ; to make him more holy,f humble, dead to sin and the world, and fitter for heaven. He1 believed me, and praised God for his attention to him, to sendI his messenger, affliction, to do him good. A person who came: in expressed sorrow at seeing him so pained. William replied,‘ Don’t sorrowforme; rejoice rather,because God has said, thatour light afflictions, which arc but for a moment, work out fori us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. I amI willing to be,sick or to die, or to recover, just as God pleases."William completely recovered fromtJiis indisposition ; hi#J knowledge of .God, and experience of his faithfulness, andGVOYAGES AND TRAVELSlove, were much increased by it; and I continued his bosomcompanion for many years. He walked in the fear of Gad,and in the comforts of his Holy Spirit, till at length he enter¬ed with triumph into the eternal joy of his Lord.After conducting Mr William to the gates of the New Jeru¬salem, I was sent for to reside with a young man in the mid¬dling ranks of life, who had received a liberal and religiouseducation from his parents, lately removed from this poorworld.He lived what men call a good moral life. He regularly con¬versed with me twice every day, and prayed in his closet morn¬ing and evening. On the Sabbath,! talked to him from dinnerto supper. An old uncle of his perpetually exhorted him to goabroad to amass a fortune, and he consulted me on the subject.Hold him to be content with such things as he had ; for thatnumbers were ruined through the deceitfulness of riches.Labour not for the meat that perisheth,’ said 1,1 but forthat which endureth to everlasting life.’ He now reasonedwith his uncle against going abroad, merely to make money ;he declared that the object was a pitiful one to an immortalcreature, who must soon bid an eternal adieu to the affairs oftime. However, he at last con sen toil to go a voyage to thoWest Indies. He sailed from Liverpool, and took me alongwith him. As all the passengers in the ship were profanesinners, he was ashamed to let me be seen, and I was hid ina corner of the state-room. On the first Sabbath morning,he took a single peep at me before the other passengers awoke.I hastily told him to Remember the Sabbath, to keep it holy ;and he resolved to abide by my advice. The passengers askedhim to take a hand at cards, but he refused. ‘ Pho1!’ saidthey, ‘ we have got a Methodist along with us; we shall have’ ' d him the whole day, andthat, before they reached their destination, they would haveall his enthusiasm hammered out of him.George, having none to encourage and countenance him,and not possessing firmness sufficient for confessing me be¬fore men, resolved to give up his religion, during the voyage,and to comply with their abandoned customs while ho con¬tinued in tho ship ; thus he fell before temptation.One day, in the midst of his merriment, he recollected anadvice which I had solemnly given him. It was this:—‘ Whensinners entice thee, consent thou not.’ Immediately herushed out of the cabin, threw himself on his bed, and weptbitterly. He called out, (but not so loud as to be heard,)‘ I have ruined my soul; Oh ! what would my worthy motherhave said, had she witnessed my conduct for days past!’ Onhis return to the cabin, tho sadness of his countenance wasOne bold sinner assertedOF A BIBLE. 7obserreJ by the company ; they laughed heartily, and assuredhim that his reluctance to join them in what they termedtheir sociality, arose from the prejudice of education ; thatI he must endeavour to banish all his fears of futurity, andmind present enjoyment. These, and similar observations,gradually unhinged the principles of young George, and be¬fore reaching their destined port, his checks of consciencewere almost gone. What a dreadful state when a man’sconscience ceases to, he a reprover !After the arrival of the ship, we all went ashore, and Georgewas soon fixed in a very advantageous situation for gettii gmoney. When the lirst Sabbath arrived, he protosh aagainst transacting business on that day, declaring that hehad never been accustomed to do anything of that kind.They advised him to labour hard seven (lays in the week, andhe would return sooner to the country from whence he came.;| They told him that only a few superannuated whites in thewhole island went to church, and sometimes a few slaves.In this manner he was prevailed upon to conform to the in¬fidel practices of the place. I told him that for all, thesethings God would bring him into judgment; that he waslike the rest of the wicked, who waxed worse and worse;that he did not love Jesus Christ, else he would keep hiscommandments, notwithstanding all the raillery and reproachto which ho was exposed. I warned him, that whoever wasashamed to confess Christ before men, of him would ho beashamed in the presence of his Father and the holy angels.In a few months he liocame as wicked and abandoned asany on the island. He made a present of me to a poor na¬tive, who could road a little English. I frequently conversedwith him, but he could not understand what 1 said, lieoften desired me to speak to his companions. A few weregreatly affected with what I said. They often called uponwe. Sometimes they pleasantly said, my words made themvery happy ; they desired to go to that happy world which Icommended so highly ; they fervently prayed to Jesus, totake them to it. An old slave crept in one day, inquiring ifJesus could do anything for very bud people. I replied,—‘ It is a faithful saying, that Christ Jesus came into the worldto save sinners, even the chief, lie is able to save to thevery uttermost all who come unto God through him.’ Theblack man, bathed in tears, exclaimed, ‘ Good book ; tell megood news!’After some years, I was sent for in great haste to visit myold proprietor George, who, by his intemperance, was broughtto the gates of death. In his affliction he remembered me.I told him, ‘ Fools make a mock at sin, but sin lipds themVOYAGFS AND TRAVELS{Jout.-’ OoJ hail been long angry with him every Jay. Heconfessed he had been a great sinner. He said that badcnnpany had been his ruin ; that, by following their example,he had destroyed a fine constitution ; that, in his distress,his bottle companions had all forsaken him ; they could notbear the thoughts of death. ‘ Had I my days to beginagain,’ said he, 11 would tiee from a swearer, or drunkard,a* 1 would from the plague.’ He prayed frequently that Godwould forgive his iniquity for the sakt of his Son JesusChrist. His fever increased, and he died. I was now putinto his trank, and sent home with his effects to his friendsin England. Upon my arrival, I was soon released from myconfinement, and put in a dark closet, whore I remained un¬known and unnoticed for several years.Being released from my solitary confinement, in conse¬quence of the death of my owner, I was seized by a captainof a West Indiaman, carried on board his ship, and placedat the head of his hammock, there to rest in silence duringhis pleasure. Indeed, when he brought me on board, he hadno design of ever permitting me to speak a word - only sup¬posing it was lucky to have such a companion in a ship, andthat I should be useful for this purpose, though I lay as stillas the ballast at the bottom of the vessel. How little did hoknow that his great Creator spoke through me to him, andto all on board.In this uncomfortable state I remained for some weeks,like Josephin Pharaoh’s prison, neglected and forgotten byall.At length we set sail with a favourable wind. I frequentlyoverheard them thanking my Master for the fine weatherthey enjoyed, which, if continued, would in a few weeksbring them to their destined port. But suddenly a gloomycloud appeared in the west, which indicated a dreadful storm.All hands mounted aloft and reefed the sails, and got every¬thing ready for weathering the gale. The wind rose and con¬tinued rising, t-ill it blew a perfect hurricane, ftow theybegan to think of me. 1 was taken from my confinement,and placed on the captain’s table, but tho rolling of the ves¬sel was such that I could not remain steady, but was fre¬quently thrown with violence upon the floor.About midnight the captain allowed me to speak ; whenI gave him a faithful relation of the conduct of Jonah andthe mariners in similar circumstances, and how they calledupon the gods whom they knew. The captain and others inthe cabin perceived, from what 1 said, that storms woreraised by the power of the God of heaven and earth ; thathe had some end in view by every such storm ; and nonebut he who raised a storm could create a calm, On this theOT- A HI rtf.K.9i captain called all liandg into the cabin who could be sparedfrom managing the vessel. They knelt down, and the cap-li tain prayed to the God of heaven to have mercy upon them,i and preserve them from foundering in the midst of the ocean.1 In the morning, the clouds began to disperse, and the windi to fall ; and, consequently, the sea became less tempestuous.This change occasioned my dismission from the cabin, and1 Iteing thrown as useless lumber into my old hammock. Nextevening, being found troublesome to the captain’s head whenI he laid it on the pillow, I was ordered into his chest, underI lock and key. I made no complaints, but silently submittedto these insults. There I lay almost smothered ; for I hadnot a friend on board to intercede for me, nor even to say aword in my belralf; on the contrary, I overheard some ofthem laughing at their having allowed me to address themthe former night, and still more at the impression my speechmade upon their minds at the time. Is not the patience ofmy God wonderful with the rebellious sons of men ? Is it notastonishing that he did not in ire plunge them into a waterygrave 1 But he is slow to anger, and possesses great pity.For nearly a week, there was hardly a breath of wind, andthe vessel lay like a log in the water, moving neither oneway nor another. The people on board hardly knew how toemploy themselves. Sometimes they sung songs, and at othertimes they amused themselves with games ; but they wereso discouraged by the continuance of the Calm', that thesethings lost their power to please. The captain, one morning,went to his chest, and opened it without knowing what-hewanted. He stood motionless for some time, looking downupon the articles which it contained, When, observing thecorner of my red coat, he took me up, and brought me forthto the light. Now, I had once more my liberty to speak,when I addressed to him the substance of the 107th Psalm,I saw he felt the force of what I said. He desired me to besilent till he considered what I had now stated. t>cHe now began in good earnest to attend to my instructions,and sometimes would continue consulting me about variousthings till midnight. He made a rule that no one shouldswear an oath on board his ship ; at the same time, he en¬deavoured to convince all of the sinfulness thereof. Thisconduct in the captain made a wonderful change in my cir¬cumstances ; I was locked up no more ; indeed, most peopleon board prufessed a desire to hold a little converse with meevery day. Being the only one of my nation on lioard, I hadabundant employment for a while. A tine breera? springingup, we were soon wafted to our desired haven, which occa¬sioned great joy to all on hoard.VOYAGES a*;d travelsaoWhile all were busy unlading the cargo, I had a good dealof leisure, though now and then some one or other wouldturn aside for a few minutes, and speak with me. ,.jyj(-ftfWhile our vessel was waiting for a fresh cargo in one ofthe islands, and most of our crew were on shore, a youngblack slave came on board to view her. He happened tostep into the cabin while I was lying on the table, and seeingthat none were in the cabin but himself and me, he took meinto his arms, though ignorant who or what I was, ran offwith me, and brought me once more to a bookseller’s shop,where I was placed in the book ranks, to remain silent forsome time. One day, a gentleman called, and, while takinga view of our ranks, when he came to me, he expressed con¬siderable surprise to find any of my species in the West Indies;‘ for,’ said he, ‘ I have resided here for upwards of twentyyears, and this is the first Biblician I have met with.’ He ac¬knowledged that the inhabitants were a barbarous people,and had little relish for talking with such a sedate person.However, he determined to have me ; to which my newmaster had no objection, provided he left money in lien of mo,which he did. His wife was not pleased to find me in his com-rmy, and said they had no occasion for me. However, whenrelated the history of David, they became enamoured withmy company. They wondered at the circumstance whichbrought David into public notice, viz. his duel with Goliath,the giant of Gath. The young people thought David waswrong in not going well armed against the giant. I told themthat all his dependence was on the God of heaven, whosearmies Goliath had defied ; and, that the victory might ap¬pear to be of God. David went only with his stall'and his slingto combat with tnis champion of the Philistines.The young people were amused with the accounts I gaveof Esther, queen of Persia. They perceived how much de¬pended on the king’s being unable to sleep that night, thathe called for the records of the kingdom to amuse himself;and one of the young ladies remarked, ‘ What a good thingit was that he did not ask for any other writings but these ;for, had 1m, it is probable Mordecai would have remained in ob¬scurity unrewarded, and the whole Jewish people been cut offby means of proud Hainan.’ This gentleman, under whoseroof I resided, was far advanced in years, and sometimes re¬flected that he must soon bid adieu to all things here below.This consideration sometimes created uneasiness; and he fre¬quently involved himself in a hurry of business, and courtedmuch company, in order to banish such unwelcome thoughts ;but all his art could not always overcome them. I wouldsometimes whisper, ‘ The time is short, and the day of theOf A CtULE.ttliLord cometh as a thief in the night.’ Then I turned to theyoung people, and said, ‘ Remember your Creator in the daysof your youth, while the evil days come not, nor the yearsdraw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them.’One morning, when the family were contriving new schemesfor acquiring wealth, 1 was hastily taken into the midst ofithem by their youngest child, which afforded me an opportu¬nity of saying one word, which was this:—‘ What shall itiprotit a man though he gain the whole world, if he lose hisiown soul V The saying was seasonable, and caused greatsilence for a few minutes ; after which, the lady observed, thatimy question was very important, and that she had often heardher old grandmother converse on such things when she was achild ; but after she was introduced into the gay circles, shei had forgotten the many good things which she had been told;by her worthy grandmother. ‘ Then,’ said I, ‘ hearken to memow, and I will teach you the fear of the Lord. Search mei lor wisdom as for hidden treasures ; for he that findeth this,ulindeth life.’ ‘ Well,’ said she, ‘ I will ; but I have not lei¬sure at present; however, at some future period I will sendifor thee.’ ‘ But now,’ said I, ‘ is the appointed time, now isthe day of salvation ; and we know not what a change asingle day or an hour may produce respecting us.’•She now drew me nearer to her, and requested me to re¬late the conversation between Jesus and Nicodemus the rulerIS of the Jews ; with which request I readily complied. WhenI repeated the objection which the ruler started against thedoctrine of regeneration, she said, ‘ That is very remarkable,i for the same ob> otion occurred to me.’ She could not con-ti ceivc what the Lord meant by calling regeneration an earthly|» doctrine, till an old Christian sailor happened to touch at(the island, and having heard of his piety, she sent for him,and proposed the question : 1 In what sense is this an earthlyfl doctrine ?’ ‘ 0 ! madam,’ said he, ‘ the necessity of having!our natures changed before we can relish the things of Cod,or In; tit for the heavenly world, quite accords with thingswith which we are familiar on earth. For example; before alion could lie down peaceably on your dining-room carpet,its ferocity must be removed, and a milder temper communi¬cated to it; before a fish could live out of water, and a beastin it, their natures must be changed.’ 1 Oh !’ said she,‘ tliauk you, 1 understand now.’But to proceed with iny narration of our first interview.I mentioned all that Jesus stated to the Jewish ruler. 1 thenrelated the history of the hrasam serpent, to which the Lord *referred his discourse. What 1 said seemed like a nail fas-tenod in a sure place by the great Master of assembles. BheVOYAGES AND TRAVELS12’then left me, and retired'-to her room, where she was dis¬tinctly overheard pouring' out her whole heart before Hod.When she returned, the tears were seen falling from her eyes.When this was discovered, several of the family inquired whatwas the matter. She told them that she had been an utterstranger to the weighty matters I had made her acquaintedwith, and that she now desired to enjoy the salvation of God;but she feared it was too late. This she spoke, lookingat me ;but 1 constantly answered, ‘ Not so ! not too late ; the LordJesus Christ laid down his life for the ungodly, and lie waits tobe gracious to all who come unto him. Be riot faithless butbelieving, and thou shalt see the salvation of God.’ On say¬ing this, her eyes sparkled, she smiled, and said, ‘ PreciousBible, what a treasure !’ Turning to her husband, she said,‘ Come, let us go to heaven together, for yet there is room forus and our dear children.’Nothing very remarkable within doors occurred for somemonths ; but, out of doors, the, family became a subject ofdiscourse to the whole country. They ceased to join in thefollies of the fashionable world, which gave great offence tosome of their old friends, who condemned and ridiculed themin every company. These insults they bore with a meeknessand gentleness that surprised some ; for Mrs Sharp, (whichwas the name of the lady,) was, formerly, singular for prideand haughtiness of carnage to all her acquaintance. But mydoctrines, when believed, bring down the lofty looks of men,by making them acquainted with the majesty of God, theirown sinfulness, and their constant dependence upon him formercy and pardon, and for the enjoyment and Continuanceof all that they possess..Mr Sharp and one of his sons were soon, through the bless¬ing of God on my instructions, brought to humble acknow¬ledgment of their sins, and a simple dependence on Jesus forhis forgiveness. v ■ ■At one of our evening meetings, a poor old slave stood up,and, with many tears, inquired if any of these tine things, ofwhich I was speaking, wore designed for slaves like him. Inanswer to this, .Mr Sharp desired I would repeat to him thecommission which the Son of God gave to his apostles, beforehe ascended into the heavens. Then I repeated, as in Mark,xvi. 16, that Jesus said unto hls:disciples—‘ Go ye into allthe world, and preach the gospel unto every creature—hethat believeth and is baptized, shall l>e saved ; but he thatbelieveth not, shall be damned.’ The poor slave then stood up,bogging Mr 8. to explain this to him, which he readily did.He said, ‘.lesiis commanded his disciples to go into everycountry in the world, where black as well as white- peopleOf A BfBLE.)3lived, and tell thetn that they are perishing sinners, but thatthey had good news for them;—that the Son of God hadbecome also the Son of man ; had obeyed God’s laws fcrthem, and made satisfaction to God for their sins, by dyingi) on a cross ; that he was now risen from the dead, and glori¬fied at God’s right hand ; and that whosoever believed thesethings, and made an open profession of their belief, shouldbe saved from the wrath to come; but that whosoever shouldtreat these things as idle tales, and not receive them in love,should be condemned to sutler eternal misery in hell for theirunbelief.’A female slave now rose, and, in a very humble strain,(asked if there was nothing which God required us to do, inorder to obtain the pardon of our sins. ‘ Does he not evencommand us to cut and scourge our flesh, that he may beI pleased with us V ‘ JNo,’ said her master; ‘ you have heardthat Jesus did all that was necessary for obtaining onr par-;don ; and nothing more glorifies the riches of his grace, andthe finished work of his Son, than our believing that pardonand eternal life are freely granted tons through Jesus Christ.’Every eye was fixed on Mr Sharp while answering thesesimple but important inquiries. ‘ Lord, I believe,’ said one—‘And so do I,’ said another. Then they wept bitterly thatever they had offended such a kind and compassionate God;and anxiously inquired how they should live to his praiseand glory for the future.The only preacher in the town, where this family resided;was a mere fop, who spent most of his time in the companyof the gay and thoughtless, 'and was as much so as any ofIthem. His discourses on Sabbath were dry dissertation*in favour of benevolence and charity, and against lying, steal¬ing, and other gross vices ; but he seldom mentioned thename of the Saviour, and never spoke of the necessity andglory of his righteousness. The family were disgusted withliis life,-and starved under his preaching. They resolved, forthe future, only to hear me preach to them on the first dayof the week.Formerly, they had been accustomed to call a certain build¬ing the church ; but, by my instructions, they began to loamthat a church of Christ was composed of a number of livingstones, or believers assembling together statedly, for the pur¬poses of mutual edification ;• watching over one another;observing all the-ordinances commanded by the Lord Jesus,as King and Head of his body, the Church. When theyunderstood this, they looked round on each other, to'findone who came nearest to a Christian bishop, as described bySt Faul, which description I faithfully repeated to them.voYagHs and I'uaVkLs14As Mr Sharp appeared to them a man dead to the world,and one whose comments on Scripture trutli had greatlycomforted and edified their souls, and who seemed to rulehis own house with prudence and discretion, they, aftermuch prayer to God, chose him to take the oversight of themin the Lord. When he had signified his consent to theirrequest, they commended him to the grace of the Lord Jesus,with prayer and fasting. After which, they chose anotherfrom among them, to fill the office of a deacon. They werethen what may be termed an organized church of JesusChrist.In their meetings, they believed what I said, that Jesuswas in the midst of them to bless them. The faith of thismade them long for the return of their stated meetings, fromwhich they expected to derive much benefit; because Jesushad appointed them for that purpose, and had engaged to l>epresent, to render them effectual for producing that end.When they were assembled, they looked on each other asheirs together of the grace of life ; and when they united insinging a hymn of praise to their exalted Lord, they did itwith one heart and one soul. Truly they were a livelychurch!When I related to them what Paul says of the church ofThessalonica, of their sounding forth the word of truththroughout all the region round about, they prayed to Godthat he would enable them to be followers (or imitators) ofthose Thcssalonians. Some time after, God raised up a hum¬ble, gifted brother, who was willing now and then to visitthe neighbouring villages, to disseminate the knowledge ofhim who had died for sinners, and rose again. IIis excursionswere crowned with abundant success. Many of the villagesbecame the willing servants of Jesus Christ. After each ofhis excursions, he related to the church in Air Sharp’s house,the progress of the incorruptible seed, which occasionedshouts of praise to God, who had rendered his word effectual.The young man, though very laborious, took no praise tohimself; he always spoke of the good that was done as theeffect of God’s presence, and in a way calculated to lead thechurch to look beyond him to God. They continued pray¬ing that God would send forth more labourers into the har¬vest ; and he heard them ; for several were converted, whowere found afterwards to possess suitable talents for thisgood work. Those also were sent forth to other quarterswhich had not been visited, and God was pleased frequentlyto smile upon their labours also.While this church continued to attend to the apostolicorder; and the simplicity of the Gospel, things went on well;f. • . ,QPi A BIBLE. /( / 13but when they began to make improvements, as some newmembers called them, or rules not founded on the publishedwill of Christ, the love of that lively church began to waxcold, both to God and to each other j their zeal began toslacken apace, and divisions about mere trifles arose; theyj spake evil one against another; and these declensions wenton and increased for some years, till their pastor, who, alas !had connived at many of their innovations, being struck withremorse, came forward, at one of their meetings, and expressedhis repentance for unfaithfulness to Jesus and to them. Hethen took a review of their first state, and the great comfortthey enjoyed during their former associations ; he then point'ed out the evils that had crept in amongst them unawares,and moved, that they should turn to their original conformityto apostolic rule. Some opposed this ; but, upon the pastor’splainly stating the scriptural order of a gospel church, thesei were silenced, and almost the whole church cheerfully agreedto their reverting to their original simplicity. A few wereoffended, and withdrew from the communion of the church,which was a great mercy ; for it was soon found that onlythe corrupting leaven had left them, Now they went on intheir former way ; they found that the Lord was returned tothem of a truth ; then they had rest, and were edified ; and,1 walking in the fear of the Lord, and in the comfort of the: Holy Ghost, were multiplied like the churches in Judea.This church unanimously declared it their determination,that I should in every case be their ruler; consequently,when any matter came before them, I was consulted, andthey adhered to my decision. For example : one of their1 members began to conform to this present world, and attendt vain and sinful amusements. The matter was stated to thechurch ; then they all looked to me for my counsel. I toldli them, that if any man was in Christ, he must be a newJ creature ; old things would pass away, and all things becomeanew. They concluded, from this and other things I said tothem, that a Christian was delivered from the love and prac-!tice of the evil customs and enjoyments of the wicked ; thathe would find such things hurtful to his soul, and wouldflee from them ; wherefore, they thought they had justgrounds for doubting the Christianity of this brother ; and1 having attended to all that I commanded to be done in suchcases, without producing repentance in him, they excludedhim from their society ; and then earnestly prayed, thatJesus would make this his own ordinance useful to him,whom they had just put away from among them. •A short time after these things took place, there happeneda most violent hurricane, accompanied with an earthquake.1,voVAOt:a and tUaveLs16Tlie largest trees were torn up by the roots, many housesWere swept from their foundations, and the sea broke over itsaccustomed bounds, carrying destruction wherever it went.The scene was awful: the inhabitants were in the greatestconsternation ; and Mr Sharp’s family came into the roomwhere I was, which, indeed, was almost the only one in thehouse that had received no danrage at that time from thestorm. I assured them that their God reigned ; that windsand waves were his ministers, sent to fulfil his will; andcommanded them to call on God in this day of trouble, as¬suring them that he would hear them. Accordingly, they allknelt down, and prayed to their heavenly Father lor protec¬tion. When they rose from prayer, they observed the houseready to fall, which obliged them to leave it. With greatdifficulty, they reached tne back of a rising ground, that layabout a quarter of a mile from their house, which screenedthem from the fury of the contending elements. They hadnot left their house above three minutes before the wholefabric came down with a crash, and was soon so completelyscattered, that, when daylight appeared in the morning, theycould hardly discover the place where it stood.But what a scene of misery did the morning light unfold !The family, though upon their own estate, knew not wherethey were. A village, which had stood opposite to theirhouse, was carried away, and nothing hut the raging wavesof the sea were to be. seen there. Vessels, of various sizes,were lying wrecked in the fields ; and not a house or cottagewas left standing in all the country round them. In themidst of all these ravages, they were made happy by myconversations, and hoped that God would provide for tBesupply of their wants.About noon, one of the children eanfe running to hisfather with the joyful hews that he had seen a cask of flour,which had been driven hp the country by the wind, hut hadbeen providentially caught in a large Imsh. This cask Wasbrought, and in a short time part of its contents was preparedfor food, which was the first they had tasted since the preced¬ing day. The hand of ;God was so visible in this relief whichwas necessary for the preservation of their lives, that I neversaw a family stand up with such cheerfulness, and thank Godwith such fervency for a single meal. I desired them to con¬tinue in this happy frame, and the Lord would provide.They expressed great anxiety to hear of the circumstancesof their Christian friends and neighbours. Though the windw;is still boisterous, it was not so furious as formerly. Se¬veral of the stoutest of the family went in search of such oftheir neighbours as might have survived this awful catas-of a rrr.T.r:.ni| trophe. They soon found many mangled bodies of those who! hud been overwhelmed by tlie falling of their houses, or blowni! with violence against a wall, tree, or rock. However, theyI relieved many who had escaped by being sheltered by rocks,■J trees, bushes, <fcc.When the survivors were collected, who were all more or; less maimed, they consulted where shelter could be obtainedduring the night, as all their habitations were overturned,, and the materials of which they were composed dispersedi in all directions. While consulting about this matter, a1 young man, who lived a few miles higher up the country,joined their company with the joyful intelligence that severalI houses in his neighbourhood remained entire ; to these tho! company went, taking along with them their cask of flour,i which was all they had saved of their property. The be¬lievers in Jesus, when they assembled for worship in thoevening, expressed great thankfulness to God that they hadi a treasure in heaven which no storm nor earthquake couldill possildy reach. They now understood what 1 meant when Irj| told them tliat riches sometimes took to themselves wings andI flew away ; also that the Lord sometimes gave and then tookp) away, and that even then they should say, Blessed bo thoa name of the Lord.During the confusion and bustle occasioned by the disas-M ters which had happened, I was frequently left to lie care-(I lossly on the floor. When in this situation, one morning, a(I little boy took me up in his arms, carried me to a little dis-i tance from the house, and hid me under the root of a largok old tree. The hoy being taken that afternoon to a distant•: part of the island, none remained to discover to my sorrow-| iul friends the place of my concealment; consequently, manyf a fruitless search was made for me. There I lay speechless1 for near twelve months, when an old black slave, upon aS journey, happened to lie down under the shade of the tree,to rest his weary limbs. Awaking from a eomfortable sleep,3 while in the act of stretching himself, his hands, which wereextended beyond my head, happened to touch nty covering,) which caused him to search under the root, when he foundme half immersed in sand. He called at the first house hei came to, and inquired if any of the family knew me, assur-Iing them he wished to restore me to my proper owner ; butthey honestly declared that they did not know me; so I wentforward with the old slave. This slave had been taught mylanguage when first brought to the West Indies ; and, there¬fore, though he had never met With me, or any who spoke onthe subjects that I did, yet he could converse with me JajIu-rably well. , t»laoM “ifm btw ) -i i /■VOYAGES AND TRAVELS18When we arrived at the end of our journey, Teito (whichwas the slave’s name) took me into his hut, aud put mecarefully into his little press.The next day hs brought me out, when I whispered tohim, ‘Man is born to trouble, as the sparks fly upwards.’‘Sure I have found it so,’ said Teito, ‘from my youth up.”But, I added, ‘ The Lord will be a refuge for the oppressed,a refuge in times of trouble ; and they that know his namewill put their trust in him.’ ‘ I wish I knew this Lord,’ re¬plied Teito, ‘ I would run for refuge to him.’ I endeavouredto convince him that sin is the cause of all human misery.‘ But,’ said he, ‘ what is sin V I answered, ‘ It is the trans¬gression of the law of God ;’ and that he might Understandthis, I explained to him the nature of that law, and mentionedmany who, in ancient times, transgressed that law, and statedthe punishments inflicted on them. In order also to make himacquainted with the progress of sin and misery in the hea¬then world, among whom he was bom, I repeated what Paulwrote in the first chapter of his letter to the Romans. 1 toldhim that God had not left men to perish without a remedy ;that he had not left them without a refuge ; but had so lovedthe world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoeverbelieveth in him should not perish but have everlasting life.When he had time I related to him the life and death, dsc.,of Jesus Christ. God inclined him to listen to my instruc¬tions, and taught him to understand them. My informa¬tion was all new to him, having never heard such thingsbefore. Wherever he went he repeated what I had toldhim, and often solicited his comrades to come to his hutand hear me themselves. Some, however, said I talkednonsense; others that I made them uneasy, which theydid not like; and a third, that I was a rank enthusiast,and had, in some other islands, created great confusion.‘Oh!’ said Teito, ‘you do not understand him, or youwould not entertain such notions of him ; for he has beentravelling for some thousand years in the world, teachingwithout any reward, how men may become happy hero,and in a world that is to come.’ ‘ Well,’ said^they, ‘ has hedone any good V ‘ Yes, infinite good; he has comfortedthousands in every age, in all their afflictions ; delivered themfrom painful despondency ; and made them not only to loveeach other, but their enemies also ; and through his instruc¬tions has made them to rejoice even in the solemn hour ofdissolution, which, in general, is a terror to the stoutestheart.’ ‘Itmay be so,’ said one, shrugging up his shoul¬ders and walking off. Some said, these things might do verywell for old and infirm people, who are stopping down intoOF A BIBI.K.19the grave, but they had no occasion for them now. On this,Teito held me up, when I took the opportunity to call out—•‘ Now is the accepted time, now is the day of salvation.’—‘ Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth ;for I am God, and there is none else.’ On this they put theirlingers in their ears, and ran off. On which I called afterthem—‘ Who hath believed our report ? to whom hath theami of the Lord been revealed V Borne of my words spokenat this time made a deep impression on the minds of several ;as they afterwards confessed, when they were converted tothe faith of Christ.Teito supposed that these had treated the Word of God sodisdainfully, that there was no hope of their ever being bene¬fited by that Word. But I soon taught him tha't God hadlong patience with men upon this earth, and often knockedfor many years at their hearts, with the hammer of his Word,and of his providence, before they opened to receive him.This encouraged Teito to pray for his friends who had lefthim, that God wtmld bring his Word to their remembrance,and cause them to experience it to be his incorruptible seed.Teito now began to bless God that he had been broughtfrom his country. ‘ Without this,’ said he, * 1 never couldhave known the true God, and Jesus Christ his Son, whomhe sent into the world.’ Oh ! how thankful he was to theGod of providence for leading him to lie down to sleep at thefoot of that tree where I lay ; who, under God, had conveyedto him such precious and eternal blessings ! ‘ Oh !’ said he,‘ had any gentleman made me a present of the best horse inthe island, and a purse of gold to carry me home, withoutsleeping at that tre«, what a loser I must have been ; but Hiswisdom is a great deep, and his ways past finding out!’The next remarkable circumstance that happened, while Iresided with Teito, was to see two of those who had treatedTeito and me with contempt, returning and confessing, withapparent sorrow, their improper conduct; and asking per¬mission to hear me again. Teito received them with greataffection, and assured them that his God was infinitely'moreready to forgive and receive to his favour than lie was. Theytold us that some of my sayings had followed them by nightand by day ; especially God’s command to look unto him thatthey might be saved. They often dreamed of these words,Look unto me; and while busy at work, they said, theythought they heard a person from a distance crying with aloud voice, ‘ Look unto me but this was owing to the deepimpression these words had made upon their minds.Teito related to thorn the wonderful providence that intro¬duced him to my acquaintance, and how unwearied I hadVOYACPS AND TnAVKI-S20been in conveying to his mind tlie knowledge of his Creatorand Redeemer, liefore lie knew me, he declared he had beenas ignorant of himself and his God as the very fowls of heaven.‘ But now,’ said he, 11 know the grace of the Lord Jesus,that though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor,that we through his poverty might bo made rich.’ Theyasked him if he was any happier since he knew these things.‘ Happier !’ said Teito, with tears in his eyes, ‘ 1 never washappy before. I knew nothing that could make me so ; butnow I know my God to be my Friend, his Son to be theRrince of peace and of life to me. My Friend, the Prince oflife, lives in my soul, and teaches me to live a life of depend¬ence on his dear, faithful, precious Word, which is sweeter tomo than hortey from the honeycomb.’‘ Do you not think, Teito, you should be happier still, ifyour master would give you your liberty V ‘ I should, inthat case,’ replied Teito, ‘ bless God, and thank my master.But though I am now my master’s slave, yet I am God's freeman. He allows me to speak to him when I please, to askfrom him any favour ; and he does it for me as readily as hodoes for the richest Christian in the world. He tells me thatall his family are one in Christ Jesus, and that when 1 reachthe heavenly mansions, I shall reign with his Son. In fact,that I am an heir of God, and a joint heir with Jesus Christ.Is it not wonderful, my friends, that God should be so kindand condescending to a poor slave VOur two visitors sat amazed at hearing old Teito tell themof the love of the great God to his soul. Indeed, this wasthe first time that he had ever heard a man speak of the loveof the great God to his soul ; nor is this surprising in such acountry, where the acquisition of wealth is universally con¬sidered to be the one thing needful to render menGod, and his great salvation, are entirely neglectedwhite people’s children are brought up for business, but notfor Grid. Their education is the same as if they had no soul,and as if there was neither a God, nor a heaven, nor a hell.As for the black children, they are reared like beasts, merelyfor work. Their parents know nothing to teach them, andtheir masters, in general, know as little about God ; where¬fore they are left to grow up, to live, and to die, in ignorance.Teito now desired me to speak to his two friends, which Idid for several hours, and they then left us ia silence, hutsreaiingly very thoughtful.The shadows of the evening began to appear in Teito, forhis bodily strength was decaying apace. His master, beinga humane man, did not exact his usual labour, but allowedhim to work oy not, as ho pleased. This gave him oppor*happy.. TheOF A BIBLE.2itunity of conversing with mo almost from morning to even¬ing. I desired him to continue in the faith of my instruc¬tions, and persevere in humble and holy walking; and hoshould certainly possess the crown of life.One day, when his master called to see him, he told himhe meant to leave me as a legacy to him, and begged he wouldtreat me with civility and affection. He descanted on myqualifications, such as the variety of useful informatien whichI was able to communicate, of my unchangeable veracity,and strict fidelity. He assured his master, also, that I wouldmake men wise unto everlasting salvation ; that I had con¬vinced him of sin, righteousness, and judgment to come, allwhich were necessary in this life to he known and believed ;and that I had introduced him to the acquaintance of hisGod, and of his Saviour, and of all the ahgclic hosts, who hadministered unto him ever since. He then thanked his mas¬ter for the kindness he had shewn him for many years, andplayed fervently that the God of Abraham might bless, pro¬tect, and reward him, and that both of them might meet atthe right hand of Jesus, their Judge. Then his master tookan affectionate farew'ell. On his arrival at home, he relatedi the interview he had had with old Teito, which excited therest of the family to visit him frequently, and they alwaysbrought with them some cordial to revive the heart of oldTeito.In a few weeks, he breathed his spirit into the hands ofhis heavenly Father, just after he had recommended theSaviour to the notice of one of the young ladies, who ranheme in a flood of tears, to tell hor father that Toito was nowi no more. ‘ Blessed are the dead,’ said I to those who wrere| present, ‘ who die in the Lord, for they rest from their labours,r and their works do follow them.’After the death of Tcito, I lay Unobserved in his hut fori a time; till a young black slave carried me to a distant plan-' tation, and exhibited me to his companions as a great curio-i sity. Many of the slaves, who had been but lately importedfrom the coast of Guinea, could not conjecture what use I wast for. However, Susanna, a female slave, who had been taughtto read, said she could make me speak ; accordingly, I washanded to her, when I at the first opening said, ‘ Unto you,I'j 0 men, do Lcall, ami my voice is to the sons of men.’ In a| little after, I repeated the second chapter of the Ephesians.None of them could comprehend what I meant by being‘ dead in sins,’ or by ‘ the spirit that Worketh in the childreu| of disobedience nor what I meant by ‘ children, of wrath,’i or by ‘God who is rich in mercy;’ or by being ‘saved byI grace.’ Of these things, they had never heard. Tboso pool’VOYAGES AND TRAVELS2$skives knew no more about God than what they collectedfrom the wicked oaths of white people. Their conversationon these matters made them forget the proper time whenthey should have begun work. Of course, the overseer cameupon them in a rage, and whipped them to their respectiveemployments, who, finding that I was the cause of theirdetention, declared I should no more be a snare to his slaves ;wherefore, I was put under lock and key in his house. Per¬secution for imprudence or indiscretion, is- not persecution forrighteousness’ sake. I teach my friends to do all things inorder, lest they should bring reproach on the good cause ; notto be in their closets when they ought to be at work, nor atwork when they ought to be in their closets.I was soon after sent off the island, in a vessel on its wayto South America. In a few weeks, the vessel arrived at itsdestined harbour, and I was exchanged for a few dead birds,of a beautiful plumage, which the mate intended to carryhome as curiosities. My purchaser soon perceived that Ihad some sentences very different from the assertions of someof mv brethren. For example, when I said, one day, thatJacob worshipped, leaning on the top of his staff: ‘ That’sfalse,’ said he ; 1 for our priest told me that father Jacob wor¬shipped the top of his staff.’ At another time, when I said,‘ Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, nor thelikeness of anything in heaven or in earth ; thou shalt notbow down thyself to them, nor serve them ;’ he was veryangry, and almost threw me into the fire ; * for,’ said he, ‘ ourpriests insist more on our worshipping images of the VirginMary, and other saints, than on worshipping God, or his SonJesus Christ.’ He then demanded my sentiments about Pur¬gatory, but on this subject he could not get me to say a word.On this he concluded I was some spurious character, and re¬solved to part with me the first opportunity that offered.My possessor watched the opportunity of some NorthAmerican vessel calling at the port, that he might dispose ofme. For nearly six months I was hardly permitted to speakone word. Two or throe times I was suspended by the cor¬ner ef my coat, and viewed in the most disdainful manner bysome one or another, who, saying I was heretically inclined,would throw me with vengeance against the wall. Immediatelyafter one of these occasions, I happened to say, ‘ Behold, yedespisers, and wonder, and perish !’ which made them seri¬ous for a minute; but a person present assured them thatthis was an old cant phrase of mine, and need not be at¬tended to.A North American vessel arrived, but they forgot me tillshe was sailing out of harbour. However, the son of my pro-OP A MULE.23priefor remembered me, ran home, snatched me up, ran ingreat haste to the end of the pier, just in time to catch the ves¬sel as she passed, into which he threw me with great violence.I was now placed much in the same situation I had been insome years before—sometimes in a hammock, and sometimesin a chest, according to the fancy of the captain ; only on the, Sabbath I was always liberated, and allowed to lie, duringthe forenoon, on the cabin-table. Indeed, my lying in thisposture for a few hours, and those on board dressing a littlebetter, was all that distinguished the Sabbath from any otheri day.All on board the ship in which I now sailed, consideredand called themselves Christians, yet not one of them ever,as I could observe, worshipped God, or in anything made hiswill their rule; on the contrary, they laughed at sin, andj sported about hell, though, from their own account, most ofthem had been wonderfully rescued from the very jaws ofdeath. So true is that saying, which I have repeated a thou¬sand times—‘ Bray a fool in a mortar, yet his folly will notdepart from him.’A young man, named Julius, asked the captain for liberty toJ converse with me, which was readily granted. At our firstinterview, I related the history of the prodigal son, Luke, xv.‘ Thou hast found me out,’ said he, ‘ for the history of thatyoung man exactly agrees with mine. I had indulgentparents, and, during my younger years, was happy at home;but, in consequence of a disagreement with my elder brother^I went abroad, which was contrary to their wishes. They] expended more on me than they could well afford. When Iarrived in that country, which we lately left, there was noneIt to befriend me, consequently, I was slighted, and could obtainIt no situation suited to my expectations. In a few months,a everything I had brought with me was sold for my support,and I was obliged to engage in the most menial services;J the kind of work in which I was employed, and the peoplewith whom I was constrained to associate, were both extreme-l ly disagreeable, which often led me to reflect on the comfortsK which I had hastily forsaken. Hearing that this vessel wasf bound for the city where my parents reside, I determined toit return ; and, should I meet with a reception anything resem-f bling that which you have related, I shall be happy.’When he had finished, he requested me to favour him with| a few good counsels, which might be of use to him in afterI life ; upon which I said, ‘ Delight thyself in God—believe in1| the Lord Jesus—look unto him, and you shall be saved—be>i content with such things as you have—flee youthful lusts,r which war against the soul—walk circumspectly, not as fools,24 VOYAGES AND TRAVELS OF A BIBLE.but as wise men—remember the time is short—the Lord isat hand—awake to righteousness—love God with all yourheart, and vour neighbours as yourself.’An old lady on board, who had concealed her religion,overhearing all that had passed, came into our cabin, anddiscovered that she loved and feared the Lord. She rejoicedthat this young man had been cenvinced of his folly ; ‘ for,’said she, ‘ I know your parents well, and that your conducthas been their constant grief since the day you left, as theknever having heard from you has added to their sorrow. Ican assure you, you will meet with a hearty welcome.’ Withtears in his eyes, he told her he had ever regretted leavinghome; but he hoped God would enable him to be a comfortto them in their declining years. ‘ Yes,’ said she, ‘ and soyou will, if you will act according to the advice you havejust received.’In the evening, the wind rose very high, and the few pas¬sengers who were on board were much alarmed. He thoughtGod was contending with him for hit crimes—that the stormwas on his account—that he should soon be brought before anangry God. He went to prayer, confessed his transgressions,and earnestly sought forgiveness. After he rose, he eamorunning to me, anxious to hold a little conversation ; but thevessel rolled so prodigiously, that I oould only get him tohear a sentence now and then. One thing I said, and heheard me distinctly, viz.—That whatsoever a man asked theFather in Christ’s name, bolioving that he received it, thatshould be done unto him. This cheered and encouraged himto go to prayer again. The storm soon subsided, and we atlength arrived safe in a North American port, where Juliusmet with a most aifeetionate reception from his parents.I was now old, my face full of wrinkles, my frame quiteshattered, and my constitution completely broken up. In¬deed, I could only speak a kind of broken language ; many ofmy sentences, too, were so imperfectly articulated, that theywere altogether unintelligible. On these accounts, 1 was en¬tirely laid aside from active service, like an old and.weather¬beaten sailor.Thus ended the Voyages, Travels, and Labours ofA BIBLE.Juiiias Brydone, Printer, Hanover Street, Edinburgh.