RJOHN FALKIRK'SCA RICHES,TO WHICH IS ADDEDTAM MERRILEES;A CAPITAL STORY.GI.ASGOW ;*5^..e x ^ i a hho r.y «»a 81; ? I it AO \# ; aaaoraa'asa **at :•. --V •VVa.J- ^ "• ‘€ SJ l- V,-.r€lvJ<JOHN FALKIRK'SCARICHES.Question, What is the wisest behaviour of ig¬norant persons ?Answer, To speak of nothing but. what theyknow, and to give their opinion of nothing butwhat they thoroughly understand.Ques. What time is it when a scolding wifeis at her best?Ans. When she is fast asleep.Q. What time is a scolding wife at the worst ?A. When she is that wicked as to tear the hairout of her head, when she cannot get at herneighbours, and through perfect spite bites herown tongue with her own teeth.—My hearty wish• is, that all such wicked vipers may ever do so.Q. What is the most effectual cure and infal¬lible remedy, for a scolding wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of the hearingof her; but the iafalible remedy is to nail hertongue to a growing tree, in the beginning of a4COWcold winter night, and so let it stand till sun-ris'ing next morning, then she’ll become one of thipeaceablest women that ever lay by a man’s side.jQ. What time of the year is it that there are|most holes open ?A. In harvest wnen there are stubbles.Q. What time is a cow heaviest ?A. When the bull’s on her back.Q. Who was the goodman’s mucalf’s motherA. The muckle cow herself.Q. What is the likeliest thing to a man on ahorse ?A. A Tailor on a mare.Q. What is the hardest dinner thatTailor laid his teeth to?A. His own goose, tho’ ever so well boiledor roasted.Q. How many toads’ tails will it take tolreach up to the moon ?A. One, if it be long enough.Q. How many sticks gangs to tne digging ofia craw’s nest ?A. None, tor they are all carried.Q. How many whites will a well made pud'ding-prick need ?A. When well made it will need no moreever5Q. Who was the father of Zebedee s child¬ren ?A. Zebedee himself.Q. Where did Moses go when he was fullfifteen vears old ?JA. Into his sixteenth.Q. How near related is your aunty’s good-brother to you ?A. He is my hitherQ. How many holes are there in a hen’sdoup ? A. Two.Q. How prove you that ?A. There is one for the dung and another forthe egg.Q. What is the best method of catchingrogues ?A. There is none so fit as a rogue himself.Q. Where was the usefulest fair in Scotlandkept ?A. At Muilgay.Q. What sort of commodities were there?A. Nothing but ale and wicked wives.Q. How wras it abolished ?A. Because those that went to it once wouldgo to it no more.Q. For what reason ?A. Because there was no money to be got forthem but fair barter, wife for wife; and he whoput away a wife foe one fault, got another forher with two as bad.Q. What was the reason, that in those daysa man could put away his wife for pissing the bed,but not for sh g it ?A. Because he could push it away with hisfoot and lie down.Q. Wrhat is the reason now a-days, that mencourt, cast, marry, and re-marry so many wives,and only but one in public at last ?A. Because private marriage is become ascommon as smuggling, and cuckolding no morethought of than for a man to ride a mile or twToupon his neighbour’s mare: men get will andwale of w ives; the best portion and properest per¬son is preferred, the first left the weak to theworst; and she whom he does not love he puts a-way, and lies down with whom he pleases.Q. How will one know the bairns of our townby all others in the kingdom ?A. By their ill-breeding and bad manners.Q. What is their ill-breeding and bad man¬ners ?A. If you ask them a question in civility, ifit were but the road to the next town, they’ll tellyou to follow your nose, and if you go wrrong,surle the guide.I7Q. Are young and old of them alike for illbreeding ?A. All the odds lies in the difference, for ifyou ask a child to whom he belongs, or who ishis father, he’ll bid you kiss his father’s arse andthen you’ll ken.Q. What sort of creatures are kindliest when1 they meet ?A. None can exceed the kindness of dogswhen they meet in a market.Q. And what is collie’s conduct when there ?A. First, they kiss other’s mouths and noses,smell all about, and last of all, they are so kindas to kiss each other below the tail.Q. What is the coldest part of a dog ?A. His nose.Q. What is the coldest part of a man ?J A. His knees.IQ. What is the coldest part of a woman ?A. Her backside.Q. What is the reason that these three partsof men, women, and dogs are coldest ?I A. Fabulous Historians, says, that there werethree little holes in Noah’s Ark ; and that thedog stopt his nose in one, and the man put►j his knee in another, and into the third and bigg-15 est hole, the woman bang’d her backside: and8these parts being exposed to the cold blast, is -the cause which makes them cold ever since.Q. What remedy does the man take for to jowarm his cold knees ?A. He holds them towards the tire; and Iand when in bed, draws his shirt down over them.Q. What does the women do, to warm theircold part.A. The married women put their backsidesinto their husbands’ arms :—Virgins, and thosegoing- mad for marriage, their maidenhead keepsthem warm :—old matrons, and whirl’d*o’er j:imaidens, and widows bewitched, hold their cold¬est parts to the fire.Q. And what remedy does the poor dogtake for his cold nose ?A. He staps it below his tail, the hotest bitin his body.Q. What is the reason the dogs are worston chapmen than on any other strangers ?A. It is said, the dogs have three accusationsagainst the chapman, which has been handeddown from father to son, or from one generationof dogs to another : the first is as old as ^Esop,the great wit of Babylon—The dogs having alawsuit aganst the cats, they gained the plea :one of the dogs coming trudging home with theDecreet below his tail, a wicked chapman threw9his ell-wan at him, and he let the Decreet falland so lost their great privileges thereby. Thesecond is, because in old times the chapmenused to buy dogs and kill them for their skins.The third reason is, when a chapman was quar¬tered at a farmer’s house, that night the Doglost his right of licking the poQ. What creature resembles most a drunkenPiper?A. A Cat when she sips milk, for then shealways sings, and so does a piper when he drinksgood ale.Q. What is the reason a dog runs twice roundbefore he lies down ?A. Because he does not know the head ofhis bed from the foot of it.Q. What creature resembles most a longlean, ill-looking greasy-faced lady, for pride ?A. None so much as a cat, who is contin¬ually spitting in her lufe and rubing herface, as many such ladies do the brown leatherof their wrinkled chafts.Q. Amongst what sort of creatures will youobserve most of a natural law, or instinctiveknowledge ?A, The Hart and the Hind meet on one cer¬tain day in the year ; the Brood Goose, lays herfirst egg on Eastern’s Even, old stile ; the Crows10hpgin to build their nest about the first of Marchold stile; the Swans, observe matrimony,and if afemale die, the male dare not take up with an¬other or the rest will put him to death ; all theBirds in general join in pairs and keep so ; butthe Dove resembles the adulterer, when the hengrows old he puts her away and takes another;the Locusts observe military order, and marchin bands; the Frogs resembles gipsies and ped-lers, for the young ones ride the old ones todeath.Q. Who are the merriest and heartiest peo¬ple in the world ?A. The Sailors, for they’ll be singing andcursing and darning one another when the waves(their graves,) are going over their heads.Q. Which are the disorderliest creatures inbattle?A. Cows and dogs; for they all fall on themthat ftre neathmost.Q. What are the vainest sort of people in theworld ?A. A Barber, a Tailor, a young Soldier, and apoor dominie.Q. What is the great cause of the barber’svanity.A. Because he is admitted to trim Noble¬men’s chafts. thake their sculls, take Kings by11the nose, and hold a razor to their very throats,which no other subject dare presume to do.Q. What is the great cause of the Tailor’spride ?A. His making of peoples new clothes, ofwhich every person, young and old is proud.Then who can walk in a vainer show than atailor carrying home a gentleman’s new clothes ?Q. What is the cause of a young soldier’spride ?A. When he lists, he thinks he is free of hismother’s correction, the hard usage of a bad mas¬ter, his liberty to curse, swear, whore, and doevery thing, until he be convinced by four halbertsand the drummer’s whip, that he has now gotboth a civil and military law above his head, and,perhaps, far worse masters than ever.Q. What is the cause of the poor dominie’spride ?A. As he is the teacher of the young andignorant, he supposes no man knows what heknows; and because boys call him master, there¬fore he thinks himself a great man.Q. What song is it that is sung without atongue, and yet its notes are understood by peo¬ple of all nations ?A. It is a fart every one knows the sound of.Q. What is the reason that young people are12vain, giddy-headed and airy, and not so obedientas the children of former years ?A. Because they are brought up and educat¬ed after a more haughty strain, by reading fables,plays, novels, and romances; gospel books, suchas the Psalm-book, Proverbs, and Catechisms,are like old almanacks; there is nothing in vo¬gue but fiddle, flute, Troy and Babylonishtunes ; our plain English speech is corrupted withbeauish cants, such as dont, wont, nen, and ken ;a jargon worse than the Yorkshire dialect or theHottentot gibberish.Q. Why is swearing become so common a-mong Scotch people ?A. Because so many lofty teachers came fromthe south amongst us, where swearing is practisedin its true grammatical perfection! Hot oaths,new struck, hath as bright a lustre as a newquarter guinea just come from the mint.Q. How will you know the bones of a mason’smare at the back of a dyke, amongst the bones ofa hundred dead horses lying in the same place ?A. Because it is made of wood.Q. What are the two things not to be spared,but not to be abused ?A. A soldier’s coat and a hired horse.Q. How is a man in debt like a nobleman?13A. Because he has many to wait on and callfor him.Q. How is swearing like a shabby coat ?A. Because it is a bad habit.Q. How is a bad pen like a wicked and pro¬fligate man ?A. Because it wants mending.Q. Why is a church belk like a story that ishanded about ?A. Because it is often toll’d.Q. What is a man like that is in the midst ofa river and cannot swim?A. He is like to be drowned.Q. Why is a drawn tooth like a thing that isforgot?A. Because it is out of one’s head.Q. Why is a book like a tree?A. Because it is full of leaves.Q. Why is a good sermon like a plumppudding ?A. Because there is reasons in it.Q. How is a whorish woman like a charitableperson ?A. Because she brings her husband to a pieceof bread.Q. How is a lawyer like a contentious wo¬man ?A. Because he breeds wrangling and jangling.14Q. Who is the greatest fool in the world?A. A whore; for she hazards soul and bodyfor a miserable livelihood.Q. -Who are the two greatest thieves inGreat Britain?A. Tea and Tobacco, for they pick the poc¬kets of the whole nation.Q. What is the difference between Ale-drap-; ers and Linen-drapers ?A. Only this, the one cheats you with frothand the other with cloth.Q. If Extortioners cannot enter the Kingdomof Heaven, where will Usurers, Tallymen, andPawn-brokers go.A. The same road with Extortioners.Q. What is the consequence of immoderategaming ?A. By cards and dice, a man is ruin’d in atrice? for gaming and whoring often hang together.Q. What employments are likest to one an¬ther ?A. Soldiers and Butchers are bloody near re¬lations, for they both live by slaughtering andkilling.Q. ■ What are the two hardest things to befouna, and yet they are both good in their kind ?A. Good women, and good small beer.Q. Who is the likest to a Boatman ?A. An hypocrite, who always looks one wayand rows another, in all his transactions.Q. What are the five greatest rarities to befound in the world ?A. A black Swan, a Phoenix, an Unicorn,the Philosophers’ Stone, and a maiden at sixteen.Q. What is the greatest folly that sensiblepeople can be guilty of?A. To go to law about trifles, for whateverway the plea end, the lawyers will be the great¬est gainers.Q. Who has the honestest trade in the world ?A. Ballad-singers; for they always deal withready-money: and it is as ancient as the Siegeof Troy, for Homer was a ballad-singer.Q. What is the surest method for one to be¬come both rich and respectable ?A. To be sober and industrious.Q. What is the best method of overcomingthe argument of a positive person ?A. Either to say with him, or give him noanswer.Q. What is the wisest course to be followedby a man who has a brawling and scolding wife ?A. To keep silent, and then she’ll bite herown fingers with anger.16Q. What thing- is that which is lengthenedby being cut at both ends ? A. A Ditch.Q. What is that which was born without asoul, lived and had a soul, yet died without asoul.A. The whale that swallowed Jona.Q. What is the longest and the shortest thingin the world ? the swiftest and the slowest ? themost indivisible and the most extended ? the leastvalued and the most regretted ? without whichnothing can be done ? which devours all that issmall, yet gives life and spirit to all that is great ?A. Time.Q. What creatures are those which appearclosely connected, yet upon examination are foundto be three distinct bodies, with eight legs, fiveon one side, and three on the other; three mouths,two straight forwards, and the third on one side ;six eyes, four on one side, two on the other ; sixears, four on one side, and two on the other ?A. A Man and Woman on horseback.Q. Why is a churchyard like an inn ?A. Because it receives weary travellers.Q, Why is a carrotty lady like a troop ofsoldiers.A. Because she bears fire-locks.Q. What did Adam fiirst set in the gardenof Eden ? A. His foot.17Q. How is it that a clergyman’s horse islike a King ?A. Because he is guided by a minister.Q. What is the difference between a boiled! sheep’s, head and a sheep’s head boiled ?A. In the first the sheep is boiled and in thelast the head is boiled.Q. What kind of snuff is that, the more thatis taken the fuller the box is ?A. It is the snuff off the candle.Q. What relation is that child to its ownfather who is not its father’ own son ?A. Surely his daughter.Q. What is that which is often brought to! table, always cut, but never eaten ?A. A pack of cards.Q. Where was Peter when his candle wentI out ? A. He was in the dark.Q. What relation is your uncle’s brother toyou who is not your uncle ?A. He must be your father.Q. What difference is there between twicefive and twenty and twice twenty five ?A. The former is 30, the later is 50-Q. W7hy is a brewer’s horse like a tap-ster ?A. Because they draw drafts of drink.END OF THE CARICHES.18STRANGE ADVENTUETHEOFTAM MERRILEESA True Story.Some years ago there dwelt in the “south side”of the gude town of Edinburgh a wight of thename of Tam Merrilees, who, saving that heoccasionally took rather more of “strong waters”than he could walk steadily under, generally gotthe name of an honest, industrious, hard-workingman. It happened one evening that Tam, in go¬ing home, met with an old crony of his, who ve¬hemently pressed him to adjourn to a favouritehaunt of their’s to wit a well frequented taproomin the neighbourhood. As Tam had an unfor¬tunate weakness of never being able to withstandthe pressing solicitations of a friend “ to tak agill wi him,” he was in the present instance con¬strained to accept Jock Thomson’s invitation,more especially as Jock declared that “ he wouldstand the damage himsel ”. Whether they ex¬ceeded the original stipulation of “just one gill”or Tam had been previously refreshing himselfI cannot say,’ certain it was, that when the19friends parted, Tam found it extremely difficultto walk in a straight line.It was considerable past the witching hour ofnight that Tam Merijlees proceeded towards hisi house, rather a little in dread of a curtain lecture.The night was dark; and the wind blowing hardj in his teeth, added to his unsteadiness, caused1 him several times to reel against the sides of the1 houses, as he passed the Chapel of Ease. Onei of these unlucky staggers brought his shoulder to! | bear full against the door which led into the kirk-I yard. To Tam’s great astonishment it flew o-| pen; and having lost his equilibrium, he made aI sort of semicircular movement, and found himselfstanding in the midst of tombs and headstones.' “ Hech,” said he, “ the door open at this houri o’ the night! that’s extraordinar’—its incompre-i hensible. What in a’ the warld’s that ?” con-I tinued he, perceiving something at his feet.1 - Upon stooping down he discovered that the ob¬ject of which had arrested his attention was awheelbarrow, having upon it a dead body,thurst neck and heels into a sack. Tam liftedup his hands in amazement, and steping forwardperceived at the other end of the ground sememen engaged in filling up the grave from whichthe corps had been taken. “ Resurrectioners,as I’m a living man ! ” he exclamed. “ Wha20wad hae thought it ? —but I’ll gi’e the devilssuch a fright as they never got the like o’t,”The whiskey had undoubtedly raised his courageto the highest pitch ; for, ^untying the sack, hedrew the body from it and carrying it on hisback to the opposite side of the church-yard, hereared it upright against the wall. He then re¬turned to the barrow, and having placed the sackupon it, he crept in and disposed himself in thesame manner as he found the body.He had scarcely laid down when the men ap¬proached -They spoke a few words sufficientfor him to discover that one of the party was thesexton himself. The barrow was wheeled off,and he heard the gate locked immediately. Asthe wheelbarrow rattled over the rough causeway,Tam’s stomach began to feel rather queer—henevertheless resolved to lie quiet until they shouldstop. After a short time, however, he becameaware that, if his jolting was not put an end to,his stomach would be speedily emptied of thecontents.—In short, he found it almost impossi¬ble any longer to refrain from vomiting. He hadtherefore no alternative but to raise himself up inthe vehicle; and accordingly, he suddenly startedup, and stretching out his arms with great violence >soon disencumbered the upper part of his body ffrom the sack in which he had been inveloped. I21tilt.viThe consternation of the body-lifters may be im¬agined. The one who was wheeling the barrowsuddenly let go his hold, by which means it up¬set, and both taking to their heels, they ran as ifthe evil on himself had been in chase of them.By the upsetting of the barrow', Tam Merrileeswas rolled upon the ground: however, havingmanaged to get entirely free from the sack ; andregain his legs, he found himself at the end of theCross causeway, near St. Leonard’s. He scratch¬ed his head, and taking a snuff, began to con¬sider how he was to dispose of the barrow'. “ Itis no sic a bad wheelbarrow,” said he; “ I’ll justtak it hame wi me so throwing into it the sack,he made the best of his w ay home, feeling a gooddeal soberer for his adventure.—On his arrival athome jie deposited the barrow in a small yard atthe back of the house; and w ithout facing his ex¬pectant spouse, he proceeded straightway to thedwelling of Maister Peter Mitchell, an old ac¬quaintance, and moreover an elder of the kirk.On his road thither he indulged in no very gen¬tle denunciations against the sexton. “ A finefellow to trust folks’ bodies wi’! 1’se warrant allthe corpses that’s been buried thonder for the lasttwalvemonth hae gaen the same gate as that yinwad if I had na’ prevented it. It’s an awfu’ thingthat folk canna get leave to rest in their grates■)>)now-a-daye tor thae doctors.’’ Tam’s reflectionswere interrupted by his arrival at the elder’shouse; the inmates were all gone to bed, withthe exception of the elder himself, who was doubt-ess rather surprised at so late, or rather early, avisit from his friend Tam Merrilees. ( It was}now between one and two of the morning.) ‘ Mr.Merrilees!’ exclaimed he, ‘ what was broughtyou here at this time of tne night? Nothingserious, I hope.’ £ Serious enough,’ mutteredTam. ‘ I’m just come, Maister Mitchell, ye see,about an unco queer kind o’ a circumstance.’Aye, Mr. Merrilees, what is it ? Sit down andlets hear it.’ ‘ I’ll just speer at ye a sma’ questionlirst,’ answered Tam— ‘ What kind o’ a body isthat grave-digger oc yours ?’ ‘ Is it WillieScrymgeour ye mean ?’ asked the elder. . ‘ Aye,man, its just him; dy‘e think lie's an honestman ?’ ‘ An honest man !’ echoed Mr. Mitchell‘ what should make you ask that; he's no beenstealing surely.’ ‘ I'm no saying that,’ respon¬ded Tam, ‘ but div ye think he wad lift a corpseor any thing o' that kind ?’ ‘ Surely not, Mr.Merrilees,’ said the anxious elder, drawing hischair closer? ‘ you do not mean body-lifting—the man that's trusted with the keys of the burial-ground !’ ‘ I'm no saying, Mr. Mitchell, that helifte bodies. I’ll no say that the noo; but I ’ll23tell ye what, he disna mak them bide in theirgraves. What will ye wager, Mr. Mitchell, thatthere's no a dead woman standing up against thewa‘, in the kirk-yard ?’ ‘ The man's daft !’ utteredthe astonished Mr. Mitchell. ' Gang awa'hameto your wife, Tam Merrilees, and sleep your¬self sober.’—■' Sober,’ said Tam, very dryly,, did ye say sober ? Hum ! that'll be just as muckleas saying that I'm fou’; may be I am, may be no ;but if you think sae, Mr. Mitchell, that'll nohinder ye fra taking a bet upon it.’ After alengthened parley, in which Tam strenuouslysupported his assertion, Maister Mitchell, in or¬der to get rid of his visitor’s company, was fain toaccept a bet of a dozen of ‘ strong ale’ that nosuch thing existed, save in Tam's imagination;and it was agreed that the two should call at thesexton's house at seven o' clock, and procure thekeys, after which they were to proceed to thescene of dispute. Who can imagine the amaze¬ment of the horror-struck elder, at perceiving thecorps of a woman standing upright against thewall, in the very identical spot that Tam had des-; cribed ? It was some time ere he could sufficientlycompose himself to interrogate Tam upon so my-a. sterious an affair. On his explaining the whole4 circumstance, the elder's risibility was not a littlesed at Tam's description of the jolting he had24suffered, while his indignation was as much rouseaagainst the dishonest Willie Scrymgeour. ‘ Well.Mr. Merrilees,’ said he, ‘ you have been sobererlast night than I thought you were; and as forthat worthless grave digger, he has had these keystoo long already ; but he has now seen the lastof them’ The elder was as good as his word ;the sexton was dismissed, and his place filled bya more trust-worthy individual, while the dozenof ‘ strong ale’ was drank wih much glee.FINIS,