THEI . ...... , .   Young’ Squire’s Frolic.To vv'aich are added,T H E N AVAL H E II O E S.A FAVOURITE HUNTING SONG-G R A G A L M A C H R R E,With the A N S W E R.A HUNTING SONG.T a E F O R S A KEN N Y M P H> 'THE TERRIBLE LA W.C G OG L A „Pfinted fey J. & M. liobertfon, Saltmarketj( * )=3 —i- -T“ r^rr '4* -H 2= —h = -4— =^il^iSlSTv!L~f -I-:H- +-The YOUNG ’SQUfRE’S FRO LICK.irT"'Here was a young Captain was married of late,5. It was to 2 young maid with a large dlatfjHe was a fea'Captain, and bt/und for the fca,And before he was bedded be was called away.There was a young ’Squire that lived hard by,He went to the l ady, refolyed to tty,Sa\ ‘tig. The Captain your hufband’s gone from home,I’ll make him a cuckold before he return.Early the ne».t morning: the 'Squire he arofe,He dref/d himfdf in the bell of his clothes ;With his footman, and coachman, and butter fo fine,Fie goes up to ’he Lady and bids her be kind.He took her in Ids arms, and gave her a kifs.Saving, A dice off a cut loaf will never be mifs’d ;Says, Sir, You talk to me like one that is poor.The Captain rny hulband will call me a whore.Then to bed the Lady and 'Squire did go,The hatiferfliid anti foqtman did foilow a!fo :The cook and the coachman lay in the next roorn^And the butler lay in the garret with Joan.Af night they' did fport, Sc when day-light did come.Five guineas he offer’d for daughters or Tons ;Weil then faid the 'Squire, you need .not to fear,For I’ve father’d a Icure this very fame year.V.Trn f.x months were hver and feven were pad,This fuoder young Lady grew thick hi the waifl.When eight jponths ivtre over Sc nine they were gone,The very lame night the Captain came home.He took her in his arms and did her embrace.He faid. My dear jewel, you grow thick in the waifl, .’Tis nothing but fat my dear, (he did fay,Would yotphave me grow flendex when you are at fea,£< 3 )TT!>eK fnpper was over they fat in the hall.This (lender yovng Lady gav.i a loud fquall.The cholic, the choli.-.l the cholic, (he cries,I’m fo bad with th.e cholic I’m lure I (hall die.The doctor was fent for, and when he came there,| He order’d the honfemaid a drink to prepare :1 'I'he houf. maid anfwered in the is.xt room, *il’m fo bail with' the cholic I con sot come down.The doctor went up her pulfe for to fee!.She Lid, 1 am lick fiom the head to the heel ;Irihe doctor lie finiks, and then (hook Id's head,3Said, My dear, you’ll be bitter when brought to bed.\ - The midwife was fent for, when flic came there,liijShc deliver’d the Lady of a beautiful heir,jlsShe dtl.vered the hbufemaid then with the fame,I'The cookmaid and Joan made an end of the game.The Captain drew a chair and bid her draw, near,( And for the joke fake, 1 forgive you my dear ;' There is one thing more, till it if you can,jm the four babies were got by one man.|| llere was a young ’Squire that did me beguile,i. And three of his fervants got my maids with child ;• 3p then faid the'Capiain, l don’t care for that,I For that very night I had a merry carrant.■ Unto the Weft. Indies away 1 did fleer,i 1 met a young damfel, her beauty fhone clear;s . afk’d tier a queftion,—{Tie did not me deny,j 1 got her with child, and I bid her good-bye.....——i •T H £ N A, V A L HE R O E S.;P|N the fir ft day of June, in the year ninety-four,j \ J The enligns of France were cnpttrpTd with gore;I-tight fail of their line to our arms made a how,t \nd grac’d the atchievements of brave f.-irl ilowe.I’caitiJ oi Oak ate our ftqjvj eto.( 4 )Tlie fame fortnr nc montii, la the ninety arid fiVe,The Republican Woivea fvvore they’d eat us alive ;Rut gallant brave Bridport fcht Mortfieur a knock,And filenced the crow of the Galilean Cock. etc.In the year ninety»feven, on St. Valentine’s day.The Dons thought their numbers our fleet would dilmsy.But ere the day clos’d iu the Temyde of Fame,EmblazoTi’d with glory was Jarvis’s name. Hearts, etc,O! had I feven mouths, like the fam'd river Nile,Of a Syren the fong, of Apollo the ftiie, •On the triumphs of Egypt for ever I’d dwell,While Nelfor. and Glory the chorus fhould fwell. etc.With the trcafurcs, theflrips, & thclegionsof Fyance,To cherifh rebellion, the wretches advance ;But V/arren made Monfieur exclaim with an — Ah !By Gar, we’ve enough of your Erin go Bragh ! etc.The broom the proud Dutchman had hoi fled of yore,Bald Duncan has ftruck.to infult us no more ;He finks like the natives of France and of Spain,And the broom of Britannia (hall long fweep the main.a favourite Hunting song.HE riling Aurora now gilds, the fweet morn,f And renders all ca rer to wedcome the hern,What thoufands of tranfports the chaee will impart,When timorous Reynard,When timorous Reynard we boldly will Hart, etc.Hence with your dull lovers who hnguifh forlorn,And f\gh for th.eir Chloes, neglefting the horn ;We true jolly fportemen at large ever rove. We, etc.And only the discing.And only the chacing engages our love, etc.The frcfli blooming morn our prefence invites,*1 o take cndiefs pleafures ■and rural delights j'J hen why c’o you tarry, when raptures await ;Cur wifrtri to crown, art ! our bids to complete ?...(*}Hew enticin'.- tiie joys that anfc f.-om the _Hafte hither ye fportarticn, and ftek after fame ;No longer Icth dally, but fwift let us fly,What pleafure like joining the hounds in fuli cry.Then on ward i my heroes, and Set us ne’er eeafe,’Till wily old Reynard dial! fall in the chaqe,The fport fo enchanting, our hdr.'t will deliglit,While health ami diverfion togetlitr unite,j T iicre, there he is yonder, hviz?". ! taliy ho !- To tteal away trying, yet fearing to go :! Now, r.ow he io darted, oh ! joytid furprife !He pines^and he trembles, lie pants and he dies.—~-ncr?t—(£. n ^,1 thttk < »»«'G R A G A L M A C H R £ E.IT Am a yo rng lover thatVfnrely ooprefs’d,J. Enthrall’d by a fair one and can find no red ;Her name I’ll not mention, though wounded I be,By Cupid’s keen arrow for Gragal ma Chree.When firll I beheld this female moil fair,My eyes were eclipfed with beauty fo rare :By-her killing glances fire fo enchanted me,In anguifh 1’ji languifii for Gragal ma Chree.Her lips are like coral, her cheeks like the roie,Her fain is like liiies, and eyes black as floes ;She is handfome an 1 proper in every degree.No female can tq*al fwcet Gragil ma Chree.But her Cruel parents were fnarp and unkind,1 durtl m.t attempt to difeover my mind ;My grief to reveal for that fweet lovely fhe,> And my poor heart's bleeding for Gragal ma Chree.0 had I peffdaon of Newington ftoie.With Breaknduff's treaiiire, was it ten times more.And wealth of great Demure, l‘d part with it molt free,Ditdaining all riches for Gragal ma Chree.1 propos'd to tell that “Tweet innocent dove,All by a fond letter th^t flic v/as roy love,. C 6 lKxp?a‘ng that evefliAg v :th pkafure to fee,Sonic fine talk, of l»»e from fv?tet Grr.gai my Cbres*the cruel villain wh'r.h I clul tctlrufi, >Or all me;. brCEtliing, I’m fare he is the wot ft }For he provM a tfeedeer. an«l traitor to me.He never gave the lef-r to Gragal mu Chrec.Straightway to her father ’re went out of hand,And gave him my ielttr as i undetit.ino ;When the old man dul read it, he fra re bitterly,He would ahcr tire cafe with fweet firagdl ma Chtec.He fide to his daughter with a frightful clifdain*Here is a love 1 Utt from your cading Iwaitt;So never deny it, it is plain you may fee,He tit lee you here his tweet Gray a! ma Chree. *His lovely nvtet d-ilighter die fd! on lier knees,Saying, Honoured Father, pray do as you picaie ;For if by wild horfes I tortured fliould be,1 ne’er w.iil deny I’m his Gragai ma Chree.A t.orfe was made ready without mere delay,To fume foreign country the was fent away ;Though I have been fearening tnio whole country^1 never cauld hear of fweet Gragai ma Chree.Now 1 will travel fair Ireland all round,In hopes that iu fome part my love may be found ;And if I don’t find her I’ll mourn conflantly,And my laR dying words will be Gragul ma Chree.~f. ?Miy3C'T H E A K S W V, ll.HArd by a clear river in the fweet month of May,In fcarch of my true love I happhied to ilray,I iuard a young damfei there loudly complain,In fonorw for parting.from her darling fwain.O cruel paients wherever you be,Th ;t b&ntfhM my dat'ing fw'fe' Jamie from me,No oilu r man breath "ng my favour Ihali gain,Fui the pv.de of ?li Nature’s my o,vn dsr'.iag Twain..{ “7 )Through lonely unld'cldarts and hH!a i'll ronra^To wild bird* and-fifties 1 will mal-e my moan,All rierws and grandeur' 1 now will difelain.Thro’ the world I will wander iV.r my darling f;va;n*His breath Is moi*e fweet than the rofes tn-June,Tils ever. • like diantoDd*, or the o hs of the moon.Tils Ikiii’s nke clear amber juft come fvoiv. the mine.He’s cut up to perfedion my own darling fwain.nly. love he is proper, he is tall, and he’s trim,There’s none hr the world that < an equal with him Ji O all for row and trouble i’il endure without pain,W as 1 fure to meet with my own darling {wain.My'Father he thought then his point for to gain.It, By parting hi a Daughter f.'om her darling Twain jl1 But ttow fur to vex him, l ever will bej,Jamie’s true and conllant young Grag;d\na Chree.>!, W -•A H U N'T I N G SON G.T V N F. — EFtGIlT PHOEBUS-He 'ark doth invite the dull fportsman with fong,r{ Haileav vy, fee the hounds eager trip it along,oor rcynarl’s exhaufted, his breath is near fpe.nt,hen awa: a: ther fportsr^en, we’ll give him no vent.CHORUS.Tan tara, tan tara, faint*, the grey morn,We’ll follow the found of *1k Heet .founding horn.The high nettl’d Nimrod, with Spanker and Swift,T ill lor n bring the v-lflim unto his latl fiiift ;j 'hen follow, brave boys, and p •♦ai e of the chace,He,is far out ct view, but his footileps we’ll trace.Fan tara, tan tara, fa lutes the grey morn, etc.Sly reyuard he trips it o’er hill and o’er dale,et Hill all his cunning can nothing prevail,t length, lie is caught, and as panting ho lies,he horn found? thy vi d ry, the mifereant dies.Tan tara, taw tara, fnlu’tr the grey ..rturn, etc.T H E F O R SAKE N N Y M P ILA a talking, snr] a Wiilk-iSc-.was X,' * Lo mc%t my fweet Billy, he’ll come by and by,T<> tr.ett him in the nu-adotve is ail 1:15' dif. g\:t,A walking and talking is from morning till night.Mewi ng is a plenfure^.but patting is a grieEAnd ^n inconftatit. iovtr is worfe' than a thief,A thitf cat] but rob me and take what I have,But an inconliant lover fends me to my grave.The grave it will rot me and bring rpe to da if.But an inconllant Ever no maiden can trud.They’!! kifsyou, they'll court you, poor girls toikceive.There’s not one in twenty that you can believe.The cuckow’j a fine bird, (be fings where fh# {lies.Site brings us good tidings and tells us ns lies,bhe fucks of fweet flowers to keep her voice clear,The more the fings cuckow, the fummer draws near.Come' all ye pretty maidens wherever you be,D-on’t fettle your love on a fycamorj tree.The Ivaf 't will wither, and the root it will die.Ami if I am fqrfajten, 1 know not for why**T h'f, terrible la w.r*Y^ PI E terrible law wdien it fallens its paw,& On a poor man, it grips him till he’s undone ;And what I am dahg may prpve to my ruin,though rich as the Lord Mayor of Loudon,Therefore I 11 be wary what meffage I carry,Unlefs we hrft make a fure zure bargain \I will be dempnified, thorowly fatisfied,That <\ ’.11 fhan’t zufFer a vatding.Ckfgtrw, Printed by J. fc M. Robert for., Saltroarket, iS. % [■