THEVllili AGEINTERRESTI^G TALE.~r iTMF.VILLAGE CURATE,A TALE.” The good, for Virtue’s sake, abhoro to sin.”—Crf.kCk.At an age when the human mind is most suscep-tahle of, and too often imbibes, a passion for volup¬tuous pleasure ; ere yet experience the sage preceptshad impressed. Lord Belfont inherited a splend.4fortune. His levees were crowded with the mostfashionable part of the world ; the voice of flatteryincessantly sang his praise, and bestowed on himevery virtue that could ennoble man. His rank inlife, and extensive fortune introduced him into tl^efirst families in England ; and overtures of marri¬age were made to him by the parents and guardiansof the greatest beauties of the age; but Belfont,though not insensible to the charms of beauty, wasnot yet become the vassal of their power.The attention which he invariably received fromthe whole circle of his acquaintance, it might reas¬onably be supposed, was very acceptable to the in¬experienced Belfont; but notwithstanding his ex¬treme youth and ignorance of man and manneis.4i\iKe suspected the sincerity of these eneoniuras whichflattery bestowed on him ; and the plaint voice ofadulation had made little impression on his mind.At once to prove the integrity of his professedfriends, he carefully spread a report, that, by oneimprudent step, he had been precipitatd from pros¬perity’s flowery mount into the barren vale of pov¬erty. Swift as wild fire ran the evil tale ; andthose very doors which, as it were by magic, open-'ed at the approach of the rich and happy Eelfont,were now barred against the ruined spend-thrift.To give his distress an air of certainty, he madeseveral applications for assistance to his once vowedeternal friends, which were invariably treated witha mortifying contempt. To the fair rivals of hisaffections he addressed his tale of sorrow ; here, too,neglected was his fate.—Belfont dispossessed of themeans to gratify their fondness for dress, amuse¬ment, and pleasure, was an object no longer worthyof their regard. Reflecting on these events, heexclaimed,—‘ how wretched are the children of For¬tune ! The poor man in his hour of distress findsa friend; but the rich, when he ceases to be so, isdisregarded by those whom his former bounty fed,and who have not charity enough to give to hismisfortunes even the costless sigh of pity !In the midst of his contemplations, a servant en¬tered the room, and announced the arrival of LordBremere; who, returning from a country excursion.liad just Jieard of Ills friend’s misfortune, and has¬tened to relieve his necessities,—As he approached,Ilelfunt, rising from his chair, ran to mee£ him-‘ It is some consolation,’ said he, ‘ for the disrip-fointments I have experienced, to find the manwhom 1 most valued, not unworthy the esteem Ibore him.’ ‘ This’ continued he, * more than racompenses the ingratitude of those mercenarywretches, who cannot recollect the features of theirfriend when shaded by the veil of affected distress. 'The conclusion of Belfont’s address forcibly-struck Lord Bremere, who repeated tiie words,“affected distress!”—Adding, with much sm-prise,—“ Are, then, your misfortunes bred by tbetg tie of tbe town.”“ No, my lord,” returned Belfont; “ not fromthose contemptible beings, who eagerly busy them¬selves with every bodies affairs, while they neglecttheir own, and who are only industrious in the pro .pagation of scandal, but from myself arose the taleof my distress. I invented it, merely to prove thesincerity of those protestations of eternal friendship,which every day the siren. Flattery, whispered inmy ear; and which, to speak the,truth, were be-o me most intolerably disgusting, Among myfemale fiiends,” con tinted he, “ a lady on whom Ilooked with partial eyes, and who, in fact, hadmale some faint impressions on my heart, had thecruelty to srcriU at my distress; but I thanked herVr>fe r hfM ronterapt; it ha* broken asunder thoserhains her beauty had forged to hold my heart iubondage.’'“ And what use does your Lordship mean tomake of this discovery ?” inquired Bremere.“ My resolutions, Charles,” returned Belfont,“ and your ideas, I will venture to say, are of anopposite nature. You perhaps imagine that I shallreturn to the fashionable world ; refute the opinionsit entertains of my distress, and reproach it for itsingratitude.”‘ What else can you purpose ?’ asked Bremere,** Convinced of your Lordship’s integrity,” re¬plied Belfont, ,i 1 shall not hesitate to repose iuyour breast the secret of my resolves. The suddendeath of my unde,” continued he, * has given mean ample fortune; the enjoyments of which, in ihevulgar opinion of mankind, ensures the constantpossession of happiness. Alas; how mistaken issuch a notion ! It is true my every wish is gratitiedbut one. You smile, Charles, and already antici¬pate, that yet unaccomplished wish. Yes! myfriend, the society of a virtuous female, whose bo-s'*rn is awake to the soft touches of'humanity, andwho will not, t6 the offspring of distress, refuse thatributary sigh of pity, nor from the needy suffererwithold the sacred boon of charity, is what 1 amnow in search of. In the higher circles of life,’added he, ‘ my pursuit, has proved abortive, and as-7sinning the appearance of the rustic cottager, Imean to seek it in humbler scenes !’It was in vain that Lord Bremere endeavouredto persuade his friend from his purpose. Belfontremained inflexible to all his entreaties, and, hav¬ing drawn from his friend all assurance of inviolablesecrecy, they parted; Bremere to the haunts ofgiddy passion ; Belfont, to prepare for his visit tothose of rural felicity.After a short repast, Belfont, leaving directionswith his steward for the management of the familyin his absence, retired to rest; and at an early hour,while the sons of riot and dissipation were return¬ing from their nocturnal revels, he left his splendidmansion, and in the humble garb of a peasant witha few necessaries tied up in a handkerchief, beganhis retreat from the metropolis. His name andtitle w’ere only known in Grosvenor Square; atpresent he contented himself with the less dignifiedappellation of George Truernan ; and alf traces ofLord Belfont were for a time vanished.Having continued his walk for near three hours,he found himself fatigued: when an inn, opportune¬ly presented itself to view, afforded him an oppor¬tunity of resting his weary limbs, and satisfying thecravings of nature, which exercise had renderedmore than commonly acute. The obsequious hostsoon furnished him with an excellent breakfast,which having finished, he mounted the Norwich8stage, that had arrived during his repast, and at theclose of the day, found himself in that city.Meanwhile Bremere, mixing with the circle ofBelfont’s late acquaintance, heard with silentindignation the illiberal and unjust reflections thatwere cast on the supposed misconduct of his friend.The impertinent inquiries with which his earswere assailed from all who knew him in the habitsof friendship with Belfont, were almost too muchfor his temper to bear with composure; and hewas often on the point of violating the promiseof secrecy his friend had extorted from him, tovindicate his character from the expersions of slan¬der.Seated one evening in a box at Drury Lanetheatre, he was seen by Lady Caroline Blandish,from the opposite side of the house; who, sans cere¬mony, immediately came round to him. * So, mylord,’ said she, entering the box, ‘ what is becomeof your friend Belfont ? Have you seen him late¬ly ? How does he bear his misfortunes ? I amreally sorry for the unfortunate youth.’‘ My friend,’ replied Bremere, * is infinitely ob¬liged to your ladyship for the concern you take hihis distress.’‘ Why, you know, my lord,’ returned LadyCaroline, * one can't help .being concerned for thedistresses of those who were of one’s acquaintance.I profess,’ continued she, ‘ the news of his ruin as-9tonished me prodigiously ; and I assure you I feltmyself extremely hurt at it; for his lordship hadpaid me much attention, and I began to think. Ihad made a conquest. It is however,’ added she,‘ very fortunate that the affair ended as it did, foryou know, it would have been a shocking thing tohave involved one’s self in such difficulties.’* True, madam,’ replied Bremere ; w ho by herladyship’s discourse, found she was the person towhom Belfont alluded, as having attracted his par¬ticular notice; ‘ but after all, whatever diminutionthe fortune of Lord Belfont has received, be assur¬ed, it is still sufficient to support the woman whomhe shall honour with his hand, in a stile of elegancethat might sooth the most extensive vanity.’ Andwithout waiting her ladyship’s reply, bowed, andwished her good night, disgusted with the affec¬ted concern she expressed for his friend’s imagin¬ary distress, which was but ill calculated to con¬ceal the spirit of malevolence that rankled in herbosom.Lady Caroline concluded, what he had said w’asonly to shelter his friend from the censure of theworld, and to encourage the opinion that his affairswere not so desperate as they had been represent¬ed. With these ideas, she joined her company:and Belfont and bis misfortunes escaped her me¬mory.And now, gentle reader, let us attend the steps10uf Belfont; whom, hereafter, we shall distinguishby that of Trueman, Having spent a few days atNorwich, he left that city, and continued his ex¬cursion, till he found himself, for the first time, indie midst of his tenantry.Totally unknown to his tenants and his steward,he had an opportunity of informing himself of theoppression which the former bore, and the abuseswhich the latter committed. It was near sun-setvhen he arrived at a pleasant village on the borderof the sea, which contained, what is there calledan inn. Having deposited his bundle in the roomwhere he was to sleep, he repaired to the kitchen,and. seated himself among the rustics assembledover their evening gotch of nog joined in theirdiscourse.The conversation chiefly turned on the transac¬tions of the village ; and among a variety of anec¬dotes detailed of the inhabitants, the recent mis¬fortunes of their worthy curate most attracted thenotice of Trueman. The incedent dwelt stronglyon his mind; and he determined to make himselfacquainted with the narrative of a man of whomhis parishoners spoke in such high terms of approba¬tion. Ho invited the landlord to partake of hisbeverage ■; who being a communicative sort of per¬son, and one who had a considerable share of hu¬manity interwoven in his composition, readily com-Hplied with Trueman’s request, to relate the misfor¬tunes of the worthy pastor‘ I will tell you. Sir,’ said he, * the story of Par¬son Benley. You must know, sir, that he is thecurate of our parish. The living, which is the giftof my Lord Belfont, belongs to a clergyman, wholives in the west; and, though it brings him in agood three hundred pounds out of it. So that, yousee, the master gets two hundred and sixty poundsfor doing nothing, as one may say, while the ser¬vant, who does every thing, is obliged to be con¬tented with scarcely a seventh part of that sum, andthough the good woman, his wife, brought him alarge family, he never could get any increase ofsalary. This made him determine on taking afarm ; which by the death of one of his neighboursbecame vacant. But I don’t know how it was,though he worked as hard as any day labourer inthe parish, and his wife was industrious as a bee,they couldn’t, as the saying is, bring both ends to¬gether ; and to make short of the matter, my Lord'ssteward seized on his slock which not being sufficientto pay all arrears, the hard-hearted rascal cl apt himinto the countfy gaol.’‘ And his family,’ asked Trueman, ‘ what arebecome of them ?'‘ His wife and four children,’ returned the land¬lord, * three fine boys from ten to thirteen yearsold, and a daughter grown up, are in a collage hard12hy, that belongs to me. The everseer of the parishwho was a crabbed sort of a fellow, and a friend ofthe steward, was for sending them to the work-house. But ‘ No,’ says I; ‘ hold neighbour Bru-’ing, while my roof can give them shelter, and leanprovide them with a meal to eke out the earnings<;1 their own industry.—And you must know. Sir,’said he, with a significant nod, ‘ I am pretty warmthey shall never endure the wants and hardships ofa prison.’ ‘ For what,’ said I, * is your workhousehut a dungeon, where the poor eat little and labourhard?’ ‘ But, sir,’ continued the landlord, ‘ notonly I, hut the whole village was against their go¬ing there; and the inhabitants all cheerfully sparea little towards the family’s support; nay, even thelabouring cottager, out of his earnings, throws inhis mite.’‘ And what,’ enquired Trueman, ' is the amountof the sum for which the unfortunate man is nowconfined ?’' The whole debt, replied the landlord, * I amtold is about three hundred pounds—a sum hy muchtoo large for the inhabitants of our ^parish to raisewithout injuring themselves; or, depend upon it,he would soon be snatched from the gripe of thelaw.’Every particular which related to this worthyman, Trueman enquired with ati earnestness thatdisplayed the philantrophic sentiments of his mind.13and intimated not mei’ely a wish, but a fixed de¬termination, to rescue the indigent sufferer fromthe Errors of a prison, and restore him to his dis¬consolate family. Impressed with this generoussentiment he retired to bed, meditating on themeans by which he might effect his laudable .de¬signs, so as to give the least offence possible tethe dilicacy of suffering virtue, and conceal thehand that loosed the chains of bondage, and gaveonce more to the drooping captive the possession oflibei ty.After proposing to himself many plans, he atlength determined to walk the next day to a posttown about three miles off, and enclose notes to theamount of Mr Benley’s debt, in a letter to thatgentleman. This appeared to him the best methodhe could devise, as it would leave no traces thatmight lead to a discovery from whom the meritedbounty came. Thus resolved, he yielded to the softembraces of sleep ; and in the morning rose to exe¬cute his benevolent purpose.In his return, he saw a female and a little boy.The youth carried a basket, which seemed tooheavy for his feeble strength to support. '1 he fe¬male had in each hand a jug; and, having out¬walked her companion, had seated herself on astile to wait his coming up. Trueman accostedthe youth, and offered to assist him in carryiin/his load; a proposal which the youngster readily14accepted, telling him, at the same time, that hehad been to a neighbouring farmer for cheese aridbutler; and that his sister had got two ju^s ofmilk for his brother's • breakfast.—* And what isyour name?’ said Trueman.—‘ Benley, sir; andwe live in yonder cottage,’ pointing to a smallhouse.Charlotte,’ said the youth, ‘ here is a gentle¬man has kindly carried my basket for me; and asyou complain the jugs are too heavy for you I daresay he will help you too.’* That I will, and esteem myself obliged so todo, said Trueman, placing the basketon the ground,and bowing to Miss Benley. ‘ You are very kind,sir,’ said Charlotte; * but I am ashamed thatHenry should have given you so much trouble; heis an idle boy, or he would not have thus intrudedon your politeness.’* Call it not intrusion; the young gentlemanasked not my assistance, and my service is volun¬tary. ’The blushing Charlotte accepted the assistanceof the gallant stranger. Trueman viewed, with ajoy bordering on rapture, the personal accomplish¬ments of his fair companion. ‘ And, oh ! said he,• should she wear a pure mind, and unstained as inher lovely form, she were a treasure worth the proud¬est monarch’s love !’1 ho lovely maid answered with indifferenee everyjueslion of the enamoured youth. Tha gloomyjrospect of futurity had robbed Miss Benley of thatdvacity, which, in her happier days she was wont,o possess. *Harry Benley having informed, his mother of theitranger’s civility, the good woman walked to thevicket gate, that formed an entrance to the garden,.o welcome her daughter’s return ; and thankingFrueman for his politeness, invited him to partake>f their morning’s refreshment.‘ I am sorry,’ said the venerable matron, * thatny means, and my incliantion to make you wel¬come, are not in unison with each other, but that*hich I have to give, I give fieely.—There wasi time.—‘ I have heard of your misfortunes, madam,’in-errupted Trueman ; and I sincerely sympathize infour sufferings. But do not yield to despair.Fhe hand which inflicts distress can also bestowrappiness; and though the pitiless storm of sternkdversity to day heats hard and heavy on your de-enceless roof, to-morrow prosperity’s cheering sunnay raise your sinking hopes, and repair the rav-kges of the ruthless blast.Mrs Benley and her daughter could not avoidnakitig their observations on the strangeness ofdie visit j while he congratulated himself on theuompletion of his wish for an introduction to thisamiable family.16It was on a market day that Farner Welfordwaited on the good old man. He found him in asmall room, pursuitig his pious gieditation. Thosight of any of his parishioners was a cordial tothe drooping spirils of Mr Benley. His griefs,though not forgotten, were suppressed while con-1yersing with his friends; but at the moment ofseparation, they returned with increased pugency,and it required the utmost effort of mind to supportthe painful ‘ Adieu !’‘ Eternal God !’ exclaimed the weeping father,‘ must I no more enjoy the sweets of liberty !How changed the scene ! Here, when night hersable mantle o’er the face of heaven begins tospread, nothing is heard hut the dismal rattling ofchains ; doors of massy iron, grating on their hin¬ges, appal the timid soul; while horrid oaths anddreadful imprecations wound the listening ear. OWelford ! my soul sickens at the sceae ; and phi¬losophy scarce can shield my mind from the horrorsof despair!At this moment the gaoler entered the roomwith a letfer to Mr Benley—‘ The hand is un¬known to me,’ said he. ‘ It has a goodly outside,*said the gaoler; ‘ pray Heaven it proves not likethe world, fair without and foul within.’* Why, truly friend,' returned Mr Benley,‘ your satire upon the manners of mankind is notunreasonable. It is 1 fear, the maxim of many of17he present age, to conceal the depravity of theleart beneath the specious appearance of honesty,rhis however,’ continued he, breaking the seal, ‘ Ihink bodes no harm ; I will therefore inform my-elf of its contents.’' It is well,’ said he, * goodness is still extant;ind innocence enjoys the guardian care of Provid-tnoe. The contents of this letter will best explainny meaning.—Fo the Reverend John Benley, at the Castle ofNorwich:* Reverend Sir,—The enclosed notes, which Iind, on enquiry, will cover the whole of your debts,ivad acceptance. They are the gift of one onirhum fortune has bestowed more than he can;laim on the score of desert; and who anxiouslyinpes, while it restores to you those most enviableblessings, liberty and domestic happiness, he hasleft no clue by which a discovery of the donor maybe effected.’Here the gaoler broke into a swearing fit of joy,the farmer could only express his pleasure with hislooks, while the grateful pastor threw himself on his[ciees, and poured forth the grateful transports ofbis soul to the Giver of all goodness.While the bounty of the generous Truemanwas thus employed in releasing the worthy Curatefrom-the horrors of a prison, he himself was noless assiduous in soothing, by every act of bene-18volenoe ami hosptiality the anxiety cf the family ahomo.With the assistance ofhis landlord, he was beeeme acquainted with every transaction that hatoccured in the village. In one of his evening walkhe was roused from his meditations by the sudden exclamations of a female voice ; and, raising his eyesbeheld the fair object of his affections endeavouringto avoid the opportunities of a gentleman who waipursuing her.‘ Stay, lovely Charlotte !’ said the stranger,‘ Why do you fly me thus ?’* Why, sir, are you so importunate ?'‘ Because I wish to remove the cloud of sorrowthat hangs on your brow. In short, because I loveyou. Who could behold beauty such as yours,and live a stranger to affection !'Affection ! view your recent conduct to my fa¬ther, then say if affection bore a leading featurethere.'On honourable terms I sought your hand, whichyou in scorn refused. Had your father then laidon you his commands, and forced you to he mine,he had escaped toy resentment.’‘ My choice was free, sir; and, perhaps it wasmy nature’s fault, I could not love you. But ex¬cuse my abruptness, should we beseen thus discours¬ing, the discovery would not add to my reputation.* This contempt, child, is very pretty ! but it shall19sot divert me from tasting the ripe beauties ofthese matchless charms.' Then rudely snatchingthe struggling beauty to his loathed embrace, im¬pressed on her lovely lips the guilty purpose of hispassion. At that instant, rage and indignationfired the soul of Trueman i who, darting throughthe hedge, seized the rude ravisher by the throat,and hurled him to the ground ! ' Detested mon¬ster ! I know thee well Thou art the faithlesssteward of the abused Belfont. Already has thyfame reached thy master’s ears: nor think, vile in¬grate, that he will suffer thy villianies to escapewith impunity.’ Then taking the almost fainting[ Charlotte by the hand, hediastened from this fallen| Lucifer.The spirits of Charlotte hardly supported herfrom, the presence of her base assailant, before shosunk lifeless into the arms of her deliverer ; who,urged by fear, placed her on a hank, and ran forwater to a neighbouring rivulet, and besprinkledher features with the cooling drops. Soon she un¬closed her lovely eyes and recovered.‘ You tremble still, my Charlotte, and by yourdisordered looks, seem to doubt your safety.'• O no !’ where Trueman is, suspicion has nodwelling.’‘ Enchanting sweetness! Oh, my lovely Char¬lotte, never till this hour of danger did I know howdear an interest in my heart you held. Would my20sweet girl hut kindly listen to my,artless tale, ,would she but give my ardent passion one approvj ^kg smile *—-Alas ! interrupted Charlotte ‘ I have nosmiles to give. On any other subject, 1 will hearj |,you, but, till again my father breathes the air offreedom, till from the chains of bondage ho is freed, ,I have foresworn all joy.’‘ Till that blest period, said Trueman, ‘ whenfortune shall cease to persecute thy venerable sire,and give the captive to bis weeping friends, mypassion in concealment’s painful bosqm shall dwellimmured, if then thou wilt give my artless tale at¬tention ! This only do I ask: grant me but this andhope shall nurture my love, and lull to rest eachintrusive care.’* Then, by my hopes of bliss hereafter,’ said themaid, ‘ I vow, when that happy hour arrives, I willnot chide thy fondness. But tell me, what meansthis sudden joy that through the village reigns? '* And see,’ said Trueman, * where to my Char¬lotte’s cottage they bend their steps!—But see ! |your brother comes, the harbinger of happiness.’‘ Oh, Charlotte !’ said Henry, * our dear fatheris come home again. Farmer Welford brought thenews that he was on the road, and the whole vill- |age went to meet him. They took the horses from !the chaise, and dragged him to our cottage. Mymother cries for joy, and sent me to seek after you. .Make haste, my father longs to see you.—And do21you Mr Trueman come too; my mother has toldfhim what a kind friend you have been ; I will runback, and say you are coming.’' Now, my Charlotte,’ said Trueman, ‘ indulgethis flood of joy, nor check the soft emotions of thesoul. These tears become thee; which, like thefleeting shower that bathes.the summer’s day, givesfresh lustre to the charms of nature.’‘ Is that which I have heard derived from truth,or is it but the dream of fancy ? My father releas¬ed from prison ; by whom ?’* Why,’ said Trueman, ‘ should you questionwhence the gracious bounty came. It is sufficientthat he is returned. Think the measure of hisMiss is complete, till in his paternal embrace hefolds thy lovely form. Hasten, then, to increaseand share his merited happiness.’ Then foldingher arm in his, he hurried towards her dwellingMr Benley was seated at the door of the cottage,surrounded by many of his parishoners, when Char¬lotte rushed into her father’s arms, exclaimed —‘ My dear, dear father.’ The enraptured parentmingled the tears of fond affection with those offilial gratitude; and every countenance beamedwith smiles of joy. Nor was the welcome of theworthy Trueman wanting in cordiality; but, whenthe lovely Charlotte related her rescue from thehated Sandford, the murmur of applause fell fromevery tongue, while the grateful father- strained the22gallant stranger to his heart by the endearing naraeiof Son.The return of the worthy pastor was celebratedby the iyhabitants.of the parish as a sort of jubilee.:Every one strove to excel his neighbour in acts ofcourtesy. Stores of viands were conveyed from alii uparts of the village ; and while, by the pale light of!the moon, sprightly youth led up the merry da ice,cheerful age sat and quaffed the nut-brown alejtalked over the feats of former days, and in thoughtgrew young again.Every transaction that had occurred since Lord tBelfont’s arrival in the village, he had transmitted sto Bremere ; and on confirmation of the oppression >his steward had exercised, enclosed the discharge ofthat wretch ; with an order to deliver his accounts Ito Mr Benley whom he appointed his successor, i iA letter announcing to this gentleman his appoint¬ment, which Bremere forwarded fron London, inithe manner his friend had directed. By this time >Bremere had refuted the opinion of the derange¬ment of his Lordship’s finances. Declaring the >whole to he a feint.The sensations of Sandford, on reading his Lord-: iship’s letter, were such as are familiar only to theguilty. And brought on a violent fever w’hirh soon iterminated his miserable existence.Far different were the feelings of Mr Benley—■who informed Trueman of the contents of the let-23ler ana told him he had discovered the bounteoushand that gave him liberty.* I have compared this letter of my Lord Be!fontwith the one I received when under confinement,and I find both exactly corresponding. To hisLordship I attribute the benevolent act. To mor¬row we purpose leaving this humble dwelling, andonce more take possession of our former mansion,where I hope, we shall enjoy your company.* You do me infinite honour, sir: and 1 willstudy to deserve your favour. But where is MissBenley ?’ ‘ I believe you will find her in the garden,she and her mother will keep you company, while1 visit my friends in the village.’Trueman walked into the garden, and found hislovely Charlotte seated on a bower which she her¬self had reared. She had a letter in her hand,which as she perused, the tears fell from her sorrow¬ing eyes, she hurried the letter into her pocketand darted an angry look at the youth.‘ Why, my lovely Charlotte ! do you thus an¬grily fix on me those streaming eyes?’‘ Answer me faithfully,’ said she ; ‘ art thouwhat thou seemest ? or, beneath mean attire,but ill according with thy polished manner. Ha !my fears are true ! The blush of guilt has crimson¬ed thy face, that sudden start proclaim thee false !‘ Tell me,’ said Trueman, ‘ the grounds you haveraised suspicion of my honour.’24* This will inform you, sir ; a friend of Miss Ben-ley advises her to he on her guard. Trueman isnot what he seems, hut harbours designs destruc¬tive of her peace and honour.‘ Now sir, what can you plead to this charge ?* Miss Benley, that I assuredly love you ; andas to the charge that I am not what I seem, T pleadguilty ; hut the rest I pronounce is a base falsehood.But tell me, if I repel by truth indisputable thisunjust arraignment of my honour, what reward 1may expect ?* Clear thyself of these suspicions, and appear theman my fond wishes have formed thee, and Iwould' reject the greatest crowned monarch’s handto share thy regard and favour.’His Lordship then made himself known, andpressing his suit ardently, gained her affection, theyexchanged holy vtfws, and signed a contract of eter¬nal love, and immediately communicating the sameto her parents, lie threw disguise aside, and con¬fessed himself to he the happy Belfont. The re¬joicing parents gave their free consent; and has¬tening to the village, the ceremony was performedwith due solemnity, amid the acclamations of thedelighted tenantry, who hastened cheerfully to paythe duty due to their illustrious landlord.FINIS.