CRY to the whole Earth?1 S E R M O NPREACHED BYThe Reverend Mr. JOHN WELCHjSometime Minifter of the Gofpel at Ayr.From Luke X. 38, 3^, 40, 41, 42.Mow it came to pafs as they -went,- that he enteredinto a certain village: and a certain woman nam¬ed Martha received him into her houfe..And /he had a fifter called Mary, who alfo fat atJefus' feet, and heard his word.But Martha was cumbred about much ferving, andcame to him, and /aid. Lord, doji thou not carethat my JiJler hath left me to ferve alone ? bidher therefore, that /he help me.And Jefus anfwered, and /aid unto her, Martha,Martha, thou art careful and troubled ab<\ut■ many thingss .. jBut one thing is needful: and Mary hath chofen'thegood part, which /ball not be taken away from her.X/ AX—GLASGOW:Printed and gold by J. & M. ROBERTSON,\ -. ' ,6*.ri’-fX •• .t( 3 )A Cry to the whole Earth.Luke X. 42.Mary hath chofen the good part which Jkall not betaken away from her.AS Chrift did fliew himfelf loving to Lazarusand his fillers, in that he railed Lazarusfrom the death of the body, and then from thedeath of the foul: So did his fillers here (hew.theirthankful minds unto Chrift again; the one by re¬ceiving him into her houfe, and the other by en¬tertaining of him into her heart. As he was Godhe was entertained by Mary, and as he wa$ mawhe was received of Martha. They both defired toentertain our Saviour, as Jacob and Efau, Gen xxvii.defired to pleafe their aged father; but Mary madechoice of the better part, and was preferred tefore*her filler, as Jacob fped fooneft of moil dainty ve~jnifon, and prevented his brother of the bleffing :And altho’ the cares of Martha, in her entertain¬ing of Chrift, be not to be milliked of, yet Mary?sdiligence in hearing Chrift’s doctrine, is of pur-pofe preferred to Martha’s care; to declare unto.usthat it is much better with Mary to ftudy in theword, ‘ and firftto-feek the kingdom of God,’ Mat.,vi. 35. than with Martha to labour in the world,'!and to negleft that heavenly kingdom. And yetnotwiihftanding fuch is the corruption of this ruf-ty £ge, "that our greateft care is to provide for this iprefent life, as did that rich man, Luke xii thatenlarged his barns, wherein to put his ftore for-many years; but we never, or Very late, do pro¬vide.for that life to.come, like to that other richman .that ney.erethought of heaven till he was ter-naented in hellt^Luke xvi. lathe 5 th of John, Chridi‘ ' A s, k4 -A Cry to the whole Earth.>s faid to love his whole family, and here he is faidto come unto them ; for whom he loveth he can¬not but vifit, like the friends of Job, Job ii. thatcame to comfort him in his adverfity. Yea, andthe greater love that Chrift bears unto any, the of-tener he will refort unto them* yea, he will comeand dwell with them, John xiv. 25. Like Jacob,that came down into Egypt, Gen. xlvii. to his be¬loved fon Jofeph, and dwelt in Gofliert. But Chriftis yet more kind than Jacob was,- for he came nottill he was fent for with horfes and chariots: butChrift he came of his own accord to his belovedfamily. Thus doth he always prevent us with his' manifold bleflings. Before he was defired, he cameinto the world; he called his apoftles before theycam^ unto him; and before he was invited he cameinto this noble houfe.O happy houfe that entertained fuch a gueft;i but thrice happy inhabitants to whom fuch a gueftwould vouchfafe to come. When he came unto thefwiniih Gadarencs, they defired him to depart outof their coafts, Luke viii. preferring their fwin.e a-bove their Saviour: But this godly family gladlyreceived him into their houfe, preferred their GodI before their gold, and their foul’s health before their, worldly wealth. They received him into their hou-fes, who had not a houfe of his own to put hishead into, Mat. viii. 16. wherein their hofpitalityis commended, and fhall moft certainly be reward¬ed at that moft dreadful day, Mat. xxv. For withthefe and fuch like works of mprcy, the Lord {hallanfwer the fentence of judgment, which is to bedenounced againft the wicked, that never exercif-ed thefe works of mercy. Let us therefore learn bytheir example to be harbourers, and given to hof-pitality, which is fo often commended to us in theferipturcs, and {hall be fo richly rewarded at thelaftA Cry it the •whole Earth, 5laft day. Thefe godly fathers, Abraham, Gen.zviii. and Lot, Gen. xix. entertained angels intheir houfes in the habit of ftrangers, fo we maydaily entertain Chrift jefus in the habit of a poorman, of a blind man, of a lame man/ and what-foever is done to any of thofe that are his mem¬bers, he doth account thereof as it were done tohimfelf. Now as this virtue of hofpitality is com¬mendable in all forts of perfons, fo it is our fpecialconcern, and more efpecially commended untominifters, who are exprefsly commanded by the a-poftles, 1 Tim. iii. 2. among other things to begiven to hofpitality: unto the Levites in the timeof the law, the Lord appointed cities of refugeJNumb. xxxv. to fignify thereby that the minifter’ahoufe (hould be the poor man’s harbour, and hisftore their treafury. But the true minifters, idthefe our days, have no cities of refuge for othersbecaufe they have none for themfelves, they havnot to relieve the wants of others, for they havnot to relieve their own neceflities.Now when Martha had once entertained Chrias he was man, into her houfe, Mary began to e_rtertain him as he was God into her heart: fhe f:at his feet to hear his preaching. For no foon<came Chrift into the houfe, but he took occafion tteach and inftruft the family, and inftead of bodifood which they beftowed on him, he beftowiupon them the food of the foul. Thus doth Chrialways (hew himfelf a thankful gueft: For inwhatfoever houfe he entereth in, he leaveth beltthings behind him than he findeth: He loves nto be in Zaccheus' debt for his dinner, for infte!thereof he bringeth falvation to his houfe; neitbdoes he here leave his fupper unpaid, for inftethereof he beftoweth on them a heavenly fermo'ihis fhotlld be the exercife of al faithful (niniftei: a 3 16 A Cry ta the whole Earth.when they are invited to a great feaft, that as theyare called the fait of the earth, Mat. v. 18. to makemeat favoury and well feafoned, and to prefervethem from piurefa£tion; fo the minifters and paf-tors Ihoold feafon the table with feme godly con¬ferences and communications, ‘ to minifter graceunto the hearers,’ Eph. vi. 26. Both thefe filterswere godly women, and both earned favourers ofJefus Chrift} and yet in the manner of their devo¬tions, there is fuch difference, that the worldly af¬fections in the one may in fome fort be mifliked,in refpe£t of the godly exercife and pradtice of thesther. Martha is fore incumbred with much for¬cing, when a little fervice had been fufRcienr;'|)Ut Mary is attentive to hear the word of Godivhich can never be heard fufficiently. Mary littetho hear the word, Mat. v. as Chi ill ufeth to fit,Luke iv. when he preached the wurd; to declareinto us, that the word is to be preached and heardpith a quiet mind. In a ftill night every voices heard, and when the body is quiet, the mind,ioit commonly is quiet alfo But Martha is troub-apd with other affairs, and therefore unfit to hear|ie word, as is the ground that is feorched with’.ones, and over-grown with weeds and thorns,rhich is indeed unfit to receive the feed, Mat. v.;f to yield any fruit to him that tilletb it. As oftenlerefore as we come to hear the word of God, weiult not come with difirafted minds, we mufl notpuble ourfelves with the cares of this life, which,J our Saviour faith, are but thorns to choak thebrd, Luke viii 4. and to make it unfruitful: For[Mofes was unfit to talk with God till he had putf his fhoes, Exod. iii. and the blind man unfit topie to Chrift, until he had thrown away his)ak, Mark x. fo we muft think ourfelves unfit toar the word of God, and unapt for every hea-oly exercife, till we have put off our flioes, thatA Cry to the -whole Earth. 7is, our worldly cogitations and affe&ion?, and tillwe have call away our cloaks, that is, all letts andimpediments, which may hinder from profiting inour profeflions. When our minds are quiet, we atefit to deal with heavenly matters; therefore thedo&ors conferred fitting in the temple, and Godhe delighteth to deal with us when we are moftprivate; he appeared to Abraham fitting in thedoor of his tent, Gen. xviii. the Holy Ghoft -, hecamfc down upon the apoftles, and filled all the* houfe where they were fittingthe eunuch fit¬ting in his chariot was called and converted, bythe preaching of Philip, A£l:s viii. 37. Mary fatat Jefus feet, yet {he fat not fleeping as many fitat the preacher’s feet; but fire fat at ChrilPs feet,and heard his words; as Paul was brought up atthe feet of Gamaliel, Acts xxii. and was perfetllyinftru&ed in the law of the fathers. Her humilityis commendable, in that fhe fat at Jefus’ feet, todeclare to us that the word is to be heard with allhumility: her diligence and earnellnefs appearcth,in that fhe would not depart and help her filter, tofignify, that the hearing of the word muft be pre¬ferred before worldly bufinefs. Her diligence and ;humility ferveth to condemn our negligence and icontempt of Chrift and his word; we do not fit at iChrift’s feet, nay, we fet Chrill at our feet, when iwe are fo carelefs in hearing of the word ; we areas flow to come to the church, as was the raven to ^come to the ark of Noah, Gen viii. and as loathare we to fpend any time in the fervice of God, asPharoah was loath tp let the Ifraelites go to fervethe Lord. If ^'commodity were to be feen, out ofwhich fome worldly profit or gain may arife, how jcareful would we be to procure it? What painswould we take to get it? Abfalom was more de- jfirous of a kingdom, than are the rich men of ourtime defirous of golden gain: But if it be a matter ‘A 4 of,^   .^08 A Cry to the ‘whole Earth.of coft and trouble unto them ; if they cannot heafthe word preached, without fome hindrance totheir worldly bufmefs, and fome extraordinarycharge to their purfe, then like to the Gadarenes,Luke viii. they are content to take their leave ofChrift and his word, and would rather leave that1 heavenly pearl, than part from their worldly pelf,Mat. xiii 49.Thus, in Chrift we have a pattern of a good paf- |tor, and in Mary the pattern of a good hearer; letminifters learn by this example, to take all occa-t fions to preach the word, to be inftant in feafon: and out of feafon, 1 Tim. iv. 2. and let chriftians| learn by her example, Mat. vi. * Firft feek the1 kingdom of God and his righteoufnefs/ and then5 to provide for the thjngs of this life. While MaryI was careful for the food of the foul, Martha was| curious to provide food for the body; her greateftI care was to entertain Chrift, and to make him goodI cheer to teftify her thankful mind unto him, thathad done fo great things for them; he had raifed| her brother Lazarus from death to life: There¬fore he was worthy to be well entertained. If Eliasdeferved to be well dealt withal, at the hands of? his hoftefs> 1 Kings xvii. whofe fon he reftoredto life; or Eliftia deferved fuch entertainment for1 her foil’s reviving, 2 Kings iv. then furely our Sa»| viour Chrift was much more welcome hither, fee¬ing he had raifed Lazarus out of his grave, where! he had lain by the fpace of four days before, John| xi. It ^was well done therefore of Martha to Ihewf her thankful mind to Chrift; but it was not well1 done at that time, to fliew herfelf thankful in that! manner, for it was then time to hear the word ; be-\ caufe at that time Cbrift preached the word; itS was not convenient time for her to fpend on othert sftairs, and to negledl the greateft affair, even the| means of her own falvation; it was net unlawfulfor JA Cry to the "whole Earth. £ Jfor Martha to labour, no more than it wa$ unlaw¬ful for Peter to fleep; but when (Jhrift was preach¬ing, it was then no time tor her to bufy hertelfin ferving, no more than it wras for Peter to fleep,when as Chrift did fo earnetlly will him to watchand pray,’ Mat. xxv.When Chrift preached out of Simon’s ftiip to thepeople that ftood upon the thore, Luke v. it wasno time then for Peter to play the fithermanj butwhen Chrift had left fpeaking, and commandedhim to launch cut into the deep, then was it time 1for him to let out his net. There a time where- !in we ought to labour in cur vocation, and a time ;wherein we ought to hear the word of God; and ias we may not utterly negle£i our lawful callingsto follow fermons, fo we muft not bellow’ the fab- jbath, which is confecrated to the fervice of God,in following the works of our vocation ; all thingshave their appointed time, faith the wife man," andevery thing is feemly in its convenient feafon,Eccl. iii. but when things are done prepofteroufly, jand out of order, then followeth conlulion Al- ’though Martha did not hear Chrill, yet did fire la- ihour for Chrift; yet there be many in thefe our idays, that will neither labour for Chrift, nor hear 'of Chrift, but as the Ifraelites were weary of theirjourney in the wuldernefs. Numb, xxii and loathedthat heavenly manna, fo thefe men are u'eary ofevery godly exercife, and are foon clogged with ithe word of God. The five fcolifli virgins, Mat. Ixxv. wafted their oil to no purpofe, and when they ^went to buy, they were excluded the marriage";and thefe foolilh men fpend this time and day of f.grace, vainly and wantonly, as though after this ;life, there were no time of juftice and vengeance jto be feared. The day ferveth for their pride, the jnight is fpent in fpoit and pleafure, and no time is ;     - ' ' left jA Cry to the -whole Earth.left to hear the word. When we are praying, theyare playing, when we are preaching, they are eat-ing and drinking, like the old world, that ate and• drank, Gen. vi that married wives, and was given| in marriage, Luke xvii. while Noah was prepar-| ing the ark for faving of his houfhold, Heb. x\.’i And as Baal's priefts, 2 Kings xxi wounded them-| relVes to ferve their idols; fo thefe men took dan-l gerous counfel, and ftrangely troubled themfelvesi to ferve the devil. Nov/ Martha findeth herfelfi grieved, and beginneth to envy her filler’s eatercife.Si a; Jofeph’s brethren eitvied him for his dreams,I Gen. xxxvii. and the fons of Jefie, who difdainedI their brother David, for his forwardnefs to com-I bat with Goliah, 1 Sam. xv. Thefe twofifters that1 in other things agreed fo well together, in this dof fo much differ, that Chriil mud have the hearingI cf the matter before him, and divide the contro-I verfy. Martha playeth the plaintiff, and accufethj ber filter; Mary, the defendant, anfwereth by herI advocate, and Chrilt himfelf that took upon him1 the office of an advocate, is become the iudge, and[ giveth featence on Mary’s fide; Martha {he cOm-I plains of her filler’s flothfulnefs, and feemeth after; her fort, to blame our Saviour for winking at it,I requiring him to fee the matter redreffed fpeedily.1 But Chriit, he fifft reproveth Martha’s curiolity,: and then cxcufeth, yea, and commendeth Mary’sScare. In Martha’s doing, it declares to us how wil¬ling we are to pl^afe ourfefves, in our own con¬ceits, and how really to conceive amifs of the do-ings of others; yea, fonletimes to prefer cur ownI defects before the perfections of other men. Ifjj David chaften his foul with falling, Pfal. Ixix. ItI ihall be turned to his reproof; and if he' put on$ fackcloth, to teflify his contrition, they jell atA Cry to the whole Earth. 11,pparel and diet, they will fay he hath a devil:? Paul anfwer difcreetly for himfelf, he fliall beharged to be mad with over-much learning; yea>' our Saviour Chrift himfelf frequent the compa*y of finners, to welcome them from lin, they willot ftand to call him a friend and companion ofublicans and finners, Luke vii. 34. Amongft us,there be any that be more forward in reli-ion than others be, or more diligent to hear theord as Mary was, they {hall not want fome one orther to cenfure them at their pleafure, yea, to findmlt, and alfo condemn them for fo doing. Yet-e not the godly herewith to be difeouraged, or tobfift from' their godly exercife the more of that;or as the Lord anfwered for Mary when fhe helder peace herfelf, fo the Lord will defend theiraufe, and take their part againft their adverfaries;ipwbeit the godly be fufferers of their injury. Thelord cannot abide to hear his fervants evil fpokenF, but is always ready to maintain their right, and> anfwer for them : He will not fufFer Laban tooeak one ill word to his fervant Jacob, Gen xxxi.4. And if Aaron and Miriam murmur againftlofes, Numb. xii. the Lord will punifti it withiprofy What a comfortable thing is it to be god-and to the godly, that the King of kings willike their parts, and will not fufter them to fuftainny wrong. He is a moft fure and trufty friend,Jiat will not abide his friend to be backbitten oriril fpoken of, but either he will anfwer in their:fence, or he will find fome means to ftop theirouths and reftrain the (landerous tongues oficir enemies: As fometimes he flopped Balaam’siflage when he went to curfe his people, andtiiufed the dumb afs to fpeak, Numb xxii. and re¬move the madnefs of the prophet, rather than hekould have his people to be curfed; 2 Pet. ii. 15.12A Cry to the whole Earth.The reputation of Martha’s name, argueth thevehemency and earneftnefs of this admonition,The Lord, he is fain to be very earneft, and im¬portunate with us, before he can reclaim us. Scwhen God fpake to Abraham, he calls him twiceby name, Gen xxii. Chrift he called Peter thriceby name, John xxi. to caufe him make his three¬fold confeffion, for fatisfaclion of his threefold de¬nial : and when the Lord fpake unto Samuel, hecalled him for feveral times by name, I Sam. iii.before he anfwered. For fucb is the great mercyof God, that he is even content-to admonilh us asoften of our duty ; and again, fuch is the dullnefsand perverfenefs of our crooked natures, that wecannot be gained by our firft admonitions, but theLord mud call us both often and earneftly, befordwe will hearken unto him.There are two things in this fpeech of Chrift’sto be obferved} the full is his modefl: reprehendlion of Martha’s immoderate care: The other is*bis friendly defence of Mary’s choice. AlthoughMartha was very careful to entertain Chrift in thebed manner, yet if he perceive any thing in her*that is worthy of reprehenfion, he will not dickto tell her of it, he will not foothe her in her fay*ing, nor foothe her in her own conceit, for all thetrouble and cod that fhe bedowed upon him. IIwe fhould be invited to fome man’s table, andkindly entertained thereat, it would be unkindlytaken, if we Ihould find fault with any miforder:But for as much as all Chrid’s a£tions are the onlj;iadructions of chridianj, therefore every chridianman, but efpecially preachers to whom it more par]ticularly appertaineth, mud learn by this example:!how to behave themfelves when they are invite*to great feadr. namely to fpeak to the confcienafreely, when they (hall fee a fault. The bed re:emit*A Cry to the -whole Earth. *3i lultal that we can make for our good cheer, is toiive good counfel, and wholefome admonitions tolem that invite us. When Chrift dines with theI’harifee, Luke xi. 28. and was mifliked for notis/afhing before dinner, he thereby took occafiono reprove their hypocrify, even their outwardhew of holinefs, which was the moft frequent::;hew and fin of the Fh^rifees. And at anothermime he noteth them, Luke xiv. for preffing to thej chief places at banquets, declaring that mode¬sty is to be ufed, at the fitting down to meat,i vhat guefts fhould be bidden to our tables: Soi bould preachers behave themfelves towards thofecihat do invite them, when they fee perhaps fome. ault or diforder, either in the mafter of the feaft,pr in fome other of the guefts, even to fay untosirhem thus, or otherways, as the caufe requireth ;[ will warn you of one thing, that if you followItfcounfel, will do you good, that is, that you woulddeave off your ufury, or your extortions, or yourrocovetoufnefs, or oppreffion: That you would leavejoff your fwearing, and blafpheming the name ofiliGod: That you would forbear to profane the^Lord’s fabbath. That you would leave your pride,1,Band excefs in your diet and apparel: That youMwould forbear to fpeak ill of any behind their backs,lior to bear any malice or hatred to any of your^neighbours: Thefe or the like are the faults whichLate eafy to be efpied, almoft in every place; andthefe are the faults which every faithful minifterof Chrift Jefus fhould not leave unreproved where-foever he cometh. But as Elias told Ahab of his(idolatry, 1 Kings xii. although he was king: andas John Baptift told Herod of his adultery, although1 he did many things for him, Mat. xiv. Mark vi.( 20. * and heard him gladly;' fo fhould the preach-1 ers reprove the people for their notorious offences,' jiotwith-14 A Cry to the whole Earth.notwithftaruiing fome favours and courtefies re¬ceived of them before.If Chrift took occsfion to find fault with Marthafor her too much diligence, in his entertainment, itfeems he was not very curious of his diet, but wouldhave been content with fimple meats; he was no de¬licate ordinary gueft, he did not affe£t or delightin fumptuous banquets or coftly fare, he ratherrequireth a religious heart, a conilant faith, a wil¬ling mind to hear the word, Luke xi. 28. with anearned care to live thereafter. Thefe are the thingswherein the Lord delighieth ; thefe are the mor- 1fels which he defireth, and which he preferrethbefore all earthly cheer: Thus is Martha repre- (bended for her euriofity.Now let us fee how Mary is excufcd and com-tmended for her godly care. ‘ One thing is necef-ifary,’ faith our Saviour; and what i§ that one]thing? Even to hear the word preached, ‘ which*is the power of God unto falvation, to every one|that believeth,* Piom, i. 16. A man may better*want all things than that one needful thing; and!yet we defire all things, and we negle£l that one |thing which is fo needful. This one thing badMary chofen, and therefore hath chofen the bet-!ter part; Martha’s part is good, becaufe it provid-feth for this prefent life; but Mary’s part is better,becaufe it leadeth unto eternal life. It is good tobe occupied about our calling, to ^et our living}but is better to be occupied in hearing the word,,which is able to fave our fouls. As the head acd *the foot are both needful in the body, fo Mary andMartha are both needful in a commonwealth. Manhath two vocations, the one earthly by his labour,the other heavenly by his prayer. There is thea&ive life* which confiftcth only in prattifing theaffairsA Cry to the -whole Earth. 15affairs of this life, wherein man fhews himfelf to belike unto himfelf, which is an earthly man, caringfor earthly things; and there is the contemplativelife, which confifteth in the meditation of heaven^ly things; wherein man {hews himfelf to be liketo the angels, for they who labour in their tempo¬ral vocations do but live like men; but they wholabour in fpiritual matters, live like angels. Whenthey hear the word, they hear God fpeaking untothem, but when they pray, God hears them fpeak¬ing to him; fo that there is a continual conferencebetwixt God and them that are thus exercifed, ei¬ther in hearing or yet in praying. Chrift lovesMartha for hofpitality, as Ifaac loved Efau for hisvenifon, and the Lord loved Mary for her care anddiligence in hearing his word; as Rebecca lovedJacob for the hearkening to her voice, Gen. xxv.28. as a nurfe that having her breaft full of milk,doth love the child that fucks it from her, even fothe Lord Jefus Chrift, when he hath his breaftfull of heavenly milk, is glad when he hath chil¬dren to fuck the fame. Let us therefore as the a-poftle willeth, i Peter ii. 1. ‘ Laying afide allmalicioufnefs, guile and diflimulation, all envyand ill fpes.king, as new born babes defire the fin-cere milk of the word, that we may grow thereby,’to be perfect men in Chrift Jefus. Let us breatheafter the fountain of living water, which fpring-.eth up into eternal life, as the hart brayeth for therivers of water, Pfal. Ixii. 1. to quench his thirft.And for as much as many things are fo trouble-fome, and one thing is fo needful, let us ever befeeking that needful thing, even the end of allthings, that is, to learn to fear God, and to ftrivecontinually to keep his commandments, Eccl. xii.13. which we muft learn by hearing of the wordof God, whereby faith (without the which it isifppoflible to plcafe God, Heb. xi. 9.) may be be¬gotten*16 A Cry to the whole Earth.gotten and nourifhed in the hearts of men, Rom.x. 17. This is that good part which Mary hathchofen, which is fo much better than her Gfter’schoice, becaufe it concerneth a better life, andhath ftie fruition of mis prefent life alfo: Maryhath a double portion, Are both heard the word,and alfo ate of the meat which her fifter drefied.For godlinefs hath the promifs of this life, and ofthat which is to come, 1 Tim. iv. 8. As for allother things, whether they be honours, promo¬tions, pleafures, or whatfoever elfe, they ferve on¬ly for the maintenance of this prefent life, whichis but fiiort, and alfo very fubje£t to mutability:But the wc rd of God is the food of the foul, thebread of life, that immortal feed which bringethforth fruit untB eternal life, 1 Pet. i. 13* Let theword of God be precious unto u?, becaufe it is fopermanent, for heaven and earth pafs away, Lukexxi 23. but the word of God endureth for ever.If we make choice of any other thing befides, itmull be taken from us, or we muft be taken fromif But if we make choice of this one thing, it{hall never be taken from us, neither in this life,nor the life to come. The Lord grant that we beibt only hearers but doers of the word, James i.22 that it may be truly faid of us, as Chrift faidof his difciples that heard his preaching, Mat. xi.-o ‘ Behold my brother, lifter and mother;’ or,as he made anfwei- to the woman that fo muchcommended his carnal kindred, Luke xi. 28.* Bleffed are they that hear the word of God, andkeep the fame.’ Amen.FINIS.