THE FISHERMAN'Sr A R L AN D,OR THE:CRUEL KNIGHT;IN KOUR PARTS.IjiRF L The Farmer’* Dsughtir bo;;i to be theKnight’s bride.feUr IT. Striving to alter what Foitune haddecisd.IvftT III. How the Secret was difcovered.j-R F IV. CondUdiBg with theii happy Marriage.C a )The Fishrroan’s Garland,Part, i-T-^ faoconi York citf, a firtucr did dwe'd.Who was. beluve ! of all hi.'; neighbour* full well, _He had a good wife that was virtuoas and fair,And by her be had a child every year.In firven years time fx children they had,Which made both the father and mother’s heart slueBut in a little time as I did here fay,The farmer in werlth aad in flock did decay,Although that ence he bad riches great ftore,In a little time after he quickly grew poor.He ftrevc all be could but ala* I con'd not thrive,He hardly could keep his poor children aliveFor children came fafter than fiiver or gold,His «ifc fhc conceived again as I’m toldAnd when her time came on, to hard labour flic fellNow if you will mind a ftrange liory T^! 'ell,A coble rich knight did chat ce to iiae by.And hearing this woman fhricking to cry,He being well learned in planets and fignsLooked on a bock that perplexed his mind,i'he more he look’d oa it the more he did read,And found that Fate the young child had decreed,That .was born in that boufe the fame hour and tide,He fcuod it was (he tlau mull be his bride,But judge heftv the knight wjs perplexed in mind.When in that bock he his own fortune did find ;Then home ward he rode being forely opp eft.From that very moment he could not take refl.All night he did tumble and tofs in his head.And a nry ftrasge piojeft did run in h’s bead,Rdolvcd he was very quickly indeed,To fciur the fortune he found v.as decreedP \ R T IT.IjjCT'i UH a murdering heart next rnorning he tore^ And onto the ho Je of .the farmer be goesInr! aiket? the man with a heart fail of (pite,H the chiM was alive that was born laft night,j Worthy Sir, fay; the farmer, altho’ I a n poor,have one bom Lift eight and fix iong before,bur fons .ird th'-ee danghtcfs I have now a iveFhich arc in good health and are likely to thrive.J The Knight he reply’d of the feven you Kave,et me have the voungcfl i’li keep her moil brave,pr you very well .ns daughter may fpare,iliich it you will grant I’ll mate her my heir.{For l am a Knight of noble degree,Ind if you v,;'l part with vour child unto me|ul! three hundred pounds un o you I will give,Fhec I iioni your bands your daugaler rt'cwve.f 1 he father and nrothar with t«ers ia tbeir-eyes,earing this ofler they were is futpufe,pwng a Knight both gallant and gay,hey preftmed the iofaut without mor# delay,-Tiiicu they fpok« unto him with words very mild,'pe belted) you kind Sir, to be kind ta our child,or. ueed not fear it the knight he did fay,br i well maintain her both gallant and gey.So with the fVeet babe away he did ride,rani that he came to a broad riv«r fi*c,ting cruelly bent, -he rdoved indeed,ro drown the yeuojr infant that moment with fpeed,Said he if you live you mu£ needs be my wile,|ut l am refolved to depr ive you #f life,[or until you are dead, I no other can have,herefore you (hall ly in a watery graveWhen he fpoke thef# words that infVant they fay,le threw the Iwect babe in the river ftraij'htway,And bcirg well pleafcd with vrhat he had done,iie leap’d on his horfe and ouiekiy went home3ut mark how kind Fomins did further proviilejT he chiid Yh.- was driven on her back by the tide ;1 here was a osan fidneg as'B'ortutje wouid hive .Whieb law the child floating npon t'ue fait wave.iwn took her out and r a; yi apiaze.He kift’d her and birfiM her and on her didAasi i*;hg He had ne'er had a child in his V;,He »r«;rrt-y carried her home to hi* wife,feis Wife m*s wfll pleated the child ‘or to fu.fAnd laid at? hear It Ibjicd, be m ed by me,S» 1*1 e wt’vt *c’*r had a child, it yon let a.e alone,I'll tb« fwcet Babe am! cali it ui> own.'The "Godmsa confented'ac t bare been told,And fusicd tot neither bright filver nor ^oid,Uanl fhe was <i«ed cUvcn full years.And then her fweet'hcauty began to appear.PART I IT,npuE ffifiiefman was one time at an inn.Ai d ftvtral getulsman di Hiking 'with him,His wife Cent the girl to call her man Home,But when Ihe, did into the drinking room come,The Gentleman ail were anmz d to fee.The Fftlici^nan's Daughter fo lull ol beauty,Thry alkcd thru quickly if Ihe was his own,"Who told the wlroic lloiy bef. re be went home,As l war a Iking w thin my own bound,On a Msnday the f^ecc Babe l found ;*Tis devfB years fire * her iif« I did tavc,Or rife (he had lain iua w.i.ery glare.The tn;4 knight was i i the fan>e company.And Lcailng the-it dhertnnn tell the llory,'llevras vtx’i! to the heart'to lee her alive,Am bow to'dffovvy htr again did cti.trive.' He fpoke to the'Goodman and thus to IbiU find,jf you wiil part with the pretty yonrg maid,ill gtTe yon whatevet'ycur heart can receive,ior th.e in goed time tu great riche* will rife,| The Fil'herrat.n a- iV.erd with a rnodeft grace,! caifnot unieia my dear wife wss in this place,iret firS l;dr confent, and you (hall have it of me,lUid then ta go with ynu good Sir, Pnc is free,He got hi* wife’s leave and the girl with him w^ttxfat little they thought of his cruel intent;tic kept her a month very bravely th^y fay rKiH then he contrived to make her away.Vc 't 'c had a "brother in fair Lanesfttire,I noble rich man cf too rhoufand a year;pe fent this young DamfeT unto him with fpeed,poping he v,otild aft a me i t barbarous deedj He lent a tn-- with her, like wile as they lay,Pal as they did dine at an inn by the way,\ theit in the houle with an evil intent;iLo rch the portmantta Imrodliatciy wt nt.Rut the,ttu-if v as amazed when he could hot find,Neither ciothes gold ucr fjlver ncr eught to his mindput only a ktter, and which he did read,kml he put au end to this barbarous deedBut he wrote to bis Brother the very fame day,Fo put the young ' Rite cent maiden away,pith Avard'-or with poifcn, that rcry fame nightpncMw* kt hei live til! the nest morning lightb 'Aeo tbiel read the litter he had as much graceilo tear it and wriic in the very fame place,b De ir broti: •• Receive this yourg maiden of me,r And biiop/nir well up as a maiden fhciild be,!* Let Ltr be eheemed, dear Brother 1 pray,I U-i fetvart.-; * trend rer by .night aud by day,r. for fits is a Lady of noble great wo- th,ipon jfeiir Lady-e’er-li/d i t the Month,X. •(' 6 )“ Lrt Iie'r have pood tea-uiog, dear brother I pray,•l And you /or the ftimc IM tufflcienrly par,“ So now loving bro her, my ktter I end,“ Suh/eribing rayfelf your dear Brother and Friend,The Maid dud ber'f^rvant were both innocent,So on their jcun-cy away then they went,Before tbe (unfit to the houfe thsy did come,Where the.&rvarit did leave l er and returned home,’Then £he w is r«c ived v-ry bravely inde«!fBoth men and hukl fervints did ferve her indeed,There fhe co-inaued for a whole twelvemonths Ipace,*Till the ci u:i Knight came to the fame phicc.As he aRd his Brother together did talk,Seeing this Maiden in the garden to wa’k.She looked njoft beautiful plestaB’: and gay.Like to fair Aurora the godtfs of May,Wh . j'that he f*w her, in a piffion Urd {l#,And faid very angiiiy, O Bro’ber, O fy 1"Why die! you not do as the letter w'as wrote,The Brother r«pl?’d, it « done everyThen no faid the Knight it is not as I fee,Thet efora the ihall hack again go with me.But hi$ 'V ther £h w’d him the letter that dty.Then the Knight was amazed and nothing did lay,part ivALT FILE time alter he took her away,And with her he rode till he came to the fca, *Then he looked on her with anger and fpite.And fpoke to the Virgin, and bade her abgf t.The maid from her ho? le file imaic. ’ ,ely wentAnd trembled to think what wai his iutent.Tremble not he fays for this hour is your laft,Tnen puli off your clothes I command you with haft.This Maiden with sears on her knee: fhe did cry.Oh ! What have 1 done, Sir that now I maft die.p let me but know how l did you offend.And PI! ftudy each day for to make you amend*,0 {pare but myjile and I’ll warder the earth,|An-d never come near you while that'! have breath.He hearing the pitiful moan flic did make,liken from his ungtr a ring he did takeHe Ipokc to the maiden and thus to ter did fay,This rimr in the lea I’!! now throw away.Pray look on it well for the pofie ts pipin.That when ouce you fee it you may know it again,1 charge you without it never c«m;j in nay Ti^ht,!For if that you ‘do I will owe yt u, a fpice,Ur.lets that you bring the fame ring umo me.[With that he let the ring drop iu the ;ea,| Then from the young woman away hr- did go,lAr d left her to warder in ioriow and woe ;[She travfll’d t:U eight and at I all did efpy,A homely poor critaue and :o it did feic,| Being hungry and. cold with her Heart full of griefShe wint to the cottage a d aflred relief;The people feuev'u her ss l do hear lay.And get her to feivite the very next dayIn a gentleman’s houfe rot rar noat the place,Where (he did behave herielf with u tnodeff grace;She wa* a cook-maid, and forget all things twit,iBu litre a ft.ange ftory no^ comes at &■: laft.As fire a fifh dinner was dreffing ore d^y.And opining the head of a cfx! as they lay,feShe found a rich rifig apa w«s llruck with amaze,And then (he with Wonder uppii.it end gazeShe view’d it well and found it to ■ e,Ti c very fame ting the knight threw in the fea,She (milled wren (he faw it xnd bj.-n-M h?r kind fateBut (ha did to tn creature the feccet re'ixThe Maid it her fervi e did at! oHbt.c.i.excel,! Her. Lady took notice, e:.d iik'U her fo weii,C 8 )She faid the was born of foms no jle degreeAnd took fec r own chief companion to be.The cruel Knight to the fame place he came,A little time after with pefona of fame,JJatVas ftrnck to the heart when lie dil behold,This chai ming young virgin in robes of gold.Then he artced the Lady to fjrant him aYoom,&e laid twas to talk with tbii Virgin alone,The Lady contented and told the young Maid,Who quickly confented bat lorely afraid.As foen as he law her, thou ftrumpst (aid he,O did I not charge thee ne^r more to fee me 1Thi? how is your laid to the world bid good night,For hed -g (o bold as appear in my fightSaid (lie, in tbe fez, Sir, you threw your own ring,And bid me ne'er fee you, unlcfs I'could bring.That ring unto you, I have ir laid fhs,Behold itb the. tame you did throw in the (ea,When the Knight (aw the ring he flew in her armKc kifi‘d her and fwere file had millions of charms,!Said he my dearercaiure, t pray pardon me,Who have often contriv'd the ruin o( thee.‘fit raio for to a!t:r what Kaie has decreed.For I find thou was born to be ray fweet Bride,The* fa»ry were married, as 1 do hear fay,-An.! now (he's a Lady both p,3ilianr and gay.• Then they with hafie to h jr parents did come.When be told the whole ftory b:forj he had dope, /And aiked tntir p-aeden bpon iii? bare kneeWhi h they gave, and isjoiccd their daughter to fee.fhen they for trw fifheisaan and hre wife feat, :And for their paft; trouble did give them content,Then there was grea’ ioy by all thofs that did fee,Tite Farmer s young Daughter a Lady to be.F ^ N I S.